

THE HOUSE
fd
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin.” Vol. 75—No. 3881
ONE CAME BACK —PAGE 25
Wednesday, June 30, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Largest in the Borderland,
Kelso Abbey
seppelts
OIR WALTER SCOTT described Kelso as
“the most beautiful, if not the most romantic
village in Scotland.” It was there, in 1783,
that he was a student for six months in the
old grammar school where James and John
Ballantyne were his fellow-students; an associ-
ation which 19 years later resulted in the
formation of the Ballantyne Press which issued
the first two volumes of Scott’s Minstrelsy of
the Scottish Border.
The ancient town of Kelso stands on the north
side of the River Tweed at its junction with the
Tcviot in Roxburghshire—a county which was
frequently devastated by the ceaseless struggles
between the English and the Scots in the long
ago. First one side and then the other crossed
the Border to pillage, kill and burn. It was a
profitless war that was brought to an end more
by common sense than by an act of union,
by a realisation that a house divided against
itself can have nothing but a leaky roof.
Evidence of this turbulent past can be seen
lo-day in the many ruined castles and abbeys
in the Lowlands.
The largest and finest of these Border abbeys
was Keiso before its destruction. All that
remains to-day is the extreme west end of the
Abbey of which the most conspicuous part is
the massive tower built in the late Norman
style of architecture eight hundred years ago.
The Abbey was founded in an age of great
building activity; a time when such magnificent
cathedrals as Lincoln, Ely and Peterborough and
the great abbey of Bury St. Edmunds were
being built. Reports of these buildings reached
the Scottish King, Alexander I, and inspired
him to build at Kelso an abbey no less inferior
in design and beauty. Completed in 1128, dur-
ing the reign of David I, the great abbey which
was oyer three hundred feet in length in red
sandstone, was occupied by monks from
Picardy. Profiting by royal patronage, the
abbey grew in wealth and importance and until
the year 1420 its abbots claimed precedence
over all others in Scotland. In 1545, during
the Border warfare, the Abbey served as a
fortress and was taken only after a lengthy
siege; its defenders, consisting of 100 men and
12 monks were killed and the building was
almost entirely destroyed. The existing transcept
was used as a parish church between the years
1649 and 1771. After the Reformation, Kelso
Abbey was conferred upon the ancestor of the
Duke of Roxburghe, its last private owner,
who, in 1919, presented it to the nation and it
is now preserved as an ancient monument.


The Red Page
SWIFT BIOGRAPHERS
Of the whole nine and sixty ways of
constructing tribal lays of the kind known
as literary biographies, one of the least
offensive, and surely the least laborious,
is what may be called the Building-by-
proxy or, with its special aptness for
Swift, the Hey, Presto! method. It was
brought to a fine pitch of perfection some
years back by Bernard Ackworth in his
book entitled, with singular appropriate-
ness, Swift (Eyre and Spottiswood), and
it has now been somewhat more acutely
employed for an architecturally and
otherwise more impressive constructional
job by John Middleton Murry in
Jonathan Swift: A Critical Biography,
handsomely presented in characteristic
style by Cape.
In this method, seen at its most
thorough in Ackworth, the nominal con-
structor simply hangs around the site and
lets the particular subject of his tribal
lay do the work for him. Not having
anything like Captain Ackworth’s powers
of self-control, Mr. Murry has his coat
off all the time, ready to wade in and
do a share of the work himself, with
the result that hardly more than half his
book has been written by Swift. Captain
Ackworth displayed a much stronger
sense of the self-restraint the method
demands. Indeed, but for the self-
imposed necessity of keeping a good eye
on the Dean and seeing that he did not
stray from the path of rectitude to any
extent that might be thought unbecoming
or inconsistent in a worthy Christian and
fine English gentleman, Captain Ack-
worth might just as well have adopted
the perpetual Pepysian practice and gone
to bed.
Here—this earlier Swiftian biographer
said in effect —is what went on between
Swift and Vanessa; and there at once is
Swift, toiling away happily for the next
19 pages: his charming admonitory poem
to that young lady complete. Or it might
be: As Swift wrote in his “Preface” to
A Tale of a Tub .. . and there is the
Dean, like an honest fellow, not only
putting up the rest of the chapter but
cracking good jokes while he works. Or,
again, the biographer has only to snap
his fingers, with a “Hey, Presto!” and
there is Presto himself in person, pulling
the candle closer to the page, and, as if
this sort of thing was all in the day’s
work, not only writing a delightful letter
from his room in London to his Stella in
Dublin but at the same time contributing
another sparkling chapter to a book that’s
going to be published two and a half
centuries later on.
As well as thus being of some value
as a companionable Swift anthology —as
Mr. Murry’s book in its incomparably
more elaborate way also is—the Ack-
worth biographical compilation has
another sort of appositeness to Mr.
Murry’s critical biography. As indicated,
Captain Ackworth set himself a particular
watching role while sensibly letting the
Dean do all the real work. Having, it
could be thought, a certain agility in stray-
ing, the Dean would heed this close
watching to keep him to the straight and
narrow, the avowed purpose being to set
him up as a worthy Christian churchman
(an aim likely to have made Dr. Johnson
go back into the libraries which Boswell
said he devoured whole and bite bits out
of the timber by way of a chaser), and
also as a thorough English gentleman
(calculated to have resulted in the ghastly
spectacle of every Irishman, living and
dead, rising savagely up from his—Cap-
tain Ackworth’s —grave).
Whatever may be reckoned the measure
of Captain Ackworth’s achievement under
either of those heads, the fact that he
made the dual attempt clearly stamps him
a very gallant man. “Swift, the English-
man,” says the courageous Captain,
“secured his place in history as Ireland’s
great Patriot and Hero, by setting himself
the task of inducing the Irish to rectify
some of the internal ills of their country,
while compelling the English Government
to rectify some of the external ones.”
Greater flattery hath no man than that
from the English side of the lesser ditch.
They have bestowed the same flattery, of
course, freely on the neighboring conti-
nent, as in Shakspeare’s transmuting of
France’s, Italy’s and even the Athenian
countryside into English dales and
meadows. Often enough, too, they have
bestowed it on books in the pretence of
translating them, or even without any
pretence at all, as in possibly the most
extraordinary of examples, the making-
over of E. Sutherland Bates’s American
Biography of the Bible to read as if it
had been written in England by an
Englishman.
Nothing quite comparable has hap-
pened to Bernard Shaw —yet —though
anything in that line should be possible
after the Ackworth Englishing of the
perhaps rather more colossal satirist
whom the Irish might fairly claim as
their own on the reasonable grounds that
he was born in Dublin and had there his
“education of a dog” (it would be a pas-
sably well-educated dog); lived the
greater part of his life there (despite the
“fatal fascination” the English court had
for him); was vicar of Laracor and for
long Dean of St. Patrick’s ; and in any
one of his Drapier Letters sure did more
for the Quid Sod than G.B.S. did for it in
90 years. What the gallant Captain thus
attempts is to impose upon the Dean a
pattern of his own design, and the doing
of just that, though it is rarely practised
quite so openly, is in a general sense
inherent in the biographical sort of tribal
lay, and apparently impossible to escape.
Even Boswell is no exception, as anyone
knows who has gone along to the Thrales’
with Miss Burney and seen Johnson
there without James.
In Mr. Middleton Murry’s case, his
publishers specifically deny any such
imposing of a Murry pattern upon the
Dean ; but then, the inscriber of a blurb is
no more on oath than his lapidary brother.
Instead (says this authority), “Swift has
imposed himself upon him.” As that
would imply the neutral qualities of a
sponge, it is no discredit to either Mr.
Murry or his book to find that it isn’t
altogether true. Rather inconsiderately,
Mr. Murry prevents practice of one of
the Dean’s excellent precepts for the
using of books (a great boon to reviewers
to this present day)—that of getting “a
thorough insight into the index, by which
the whole book is governed and turned,
like fishes by the tail.” Mr. Murry quite
pointedly declines to add any such useful
tail to his very splendid fish, leaving the
reviewer no choice but either to get his
title off by heart and brag of an acquaint-
ance with him (the Dean’s other precept),
or else sit down and read him. And, the
choice having been made, the further the
reading progresses the clearer it becomes
that the Dean had not, in fact, imposed
himself upon Mr. Murry at all, in one
important particular.
Simply, Mr. Murry does not attempt
(or, if he does, he entirely fails) to con-
jure up the Dean as an actual living
human being. He recognises most clearly
the general autobiographical element in
Swift’s writings, especially in the poetry,
which he copiously and brilliantly
analyses as he goes along. “It is,” he
insists, “not yet sufficiently realised how
intensely personal are these early poems
of Swift’s.” It was, as a matter of fact*,
very fully realised by Swift’s Clarendon
Press editor, Harold Williams, some 20
years back. “No part of his writing,”
Williams then wrote of Swift’s- verse, “is
as complete an autobiography” ; and
again: “The events of Swift’s life, his
character, his standing with his fellows,
and his place in history can only be ade-
quately interpreted if his verse is closely
read and understood.” And Dr. F. Elring-
ton Ball (as Williams acknowledged) had
then already written: “Without know-
ledge of his verse a true picture of Swift
cannot be drawn.... Before the testimony
of his verse the work of many of his
biographers cannot stand.” So there is
nothing novel in Mr. Murry’s recogni-
tion of the same thing ; what is novel
is the thoroughness of his analysis of the
verse for the light it throws on- Swift’s
part in his period, and his relations with
Cabinet and Court and Church, and
Addison and Pope and Temple, and his
seraglio, and the rest. By this means,
assisted by reproductions of bewigged,
conventionally smooth-faced contempor-
ary portraits, he very expertly sets moving
a quite satisfactorily animated figure
labelled the Dean; but this is not.quite
the same thing as seeing the living human
being.
To have that, you must do your own
conjuring from this and that physical
detail to be gleaned elsewhere. You do
not find here, in Mr. Murry, the Swift
his contemporaries saw; the 6ft. of living
man ; the “kind of muddy complexion,
which, though he washed himself with
Oriental scrupulosity, did not look clear.”
He is, in fact, more visibly alive in the one
mere passing contemporary report that
King William offered him a commission
in the cavalry.
When Mr. Murry does occasionally use
any such purely physical touches in his
scheme of things it is never for their own
human sake, but always as illustrations
in his analyses and calculations on why
the Dean may have done this or that. He
seems indeed almost to shrink away from
physical contact. And by this rather large
sin of omission in his biographical tribal
lay Mr. Murry does inevitably impose his
own pattern upon Swift. It is a splendid,
an exalted pattern, and he does the
imposing splendidly, but it is, inescapably
if unconsciously, Mr. Murry’s own pat-
tern nevertheless. To impose it, Mi.
Murry isolates himself in a way almost
unique in the constructing of biography.
He writes of Swift as if no one—not a
single person except Swift’s contem-
poraries^—had ever written on the Dean
before. This in itself is something mar-
vellous, the common resort of biographers
being to assemble all those who have
had the effrontery to be their forerunners
and proceed to make a book by hitting
each of them in turn a clout on the head
with a whole chapter. And yet there is
a certain inhumanness even in this very
aloofness of Mr. Murry. As if in his
tower of isolation Mr. Murry himself
became an abstraction, and the Dean
with him.
And that would also seem to be the
case even when Mr. Murry sets himself
to deal with such a purely human element
as the physical aspect of Swift’s corner
of the familiar old sex quadrangle, with
Varina and Stella and Vanessa at the
other corners. Mr. Murry denies —as
well, perhaps, he might, having regard for
Varina and Vanessa —any findings of
impotency in Swift. But in the place of
such findings he imposes another leaf of
his own pattern: that, having been turned
down by Varina when he wanted to
marry her. Swift so steeled himself in the
doctrine of lago, that love is a permission
of the will, that he was able, through this
alone, to survive intact even the “many
kisses and embraces” of a passionate and
by all accounts passably beautiful
Vanessa.
There may be no need, as Mr. Murry
holds, to accept the romantic ditherings
of women novelists who, it would seem,
have feared the worst (if that is how they
would see it). But surely—without accept-
ing either that or actual impotency —there
are degrees in this respect as in all others ;
temperatures of heat and cold in passion
and emotion, varying in one human and
another, which might sufficiently explain
everything without having to impose on
Swift any such iron monstrosity as this
Murry intellectuaiised pattern of super-
human will.
And thus Mr. Murry’s book turns out
to be, not a biography of Swift, but a
biography of his genius ; and as such it is
superb, Mr. Murry’s approach may shut
out anything so lifelike as a living
human Jonathan Swift, but he gives us
something difficult enough to cage even
in the limits of a tribal lay as extensive
as this one: the terrific Swift Genius in
its own general and detailed setting and
circumstances ; the nature of its power
and effects in the highest political and
literary world of its time; its potent
influence upon and its varied reactions
to this, that and the other of those whose
contact it sought or who thrust them-
selves in its way. You get the impression
that there is no detail of Swift’s life with
any bearing on his writings and no sen-
tence of his writings reflected in • any of
his actions that have not been turned
over and acutely examined. Certainly
we have had nothing of this status on
Swift before from anyone.
Women in Prison
The only prison in the United States
for women convicted of Federal offences
—at Alderson, in West Virginia— caters
for all that does not come under State
law ; kidnapping across State boundaries,
drug-addiction and -trafficking, certain
murders, prostitution involving , State
boundaries, cheque-forgeries, car thefts
and political offences. Helen Bryan,
author of Inside (Peter Davies), was sen-
tenced to three-months’ imprisonment in
1950 for contempt of Congress—she
refused to divulge the names of contribu-
tors to a fund assisting Spanish refugees.
The ease had been dragging on with
appeals and counter-appeals for some
years, but eventually she served her time
in Alderson.
In her fifties, with a long record of
work for welfare-associations, she was
accorded no special treatment; yet Aider-
son prison, as described here, would
sound to persons in this country inter-
ested in prison-reform like most of their
dreams come true. There is little critic-
ism of general jail-conditions; but it is
shown that the prisoners feel as much
deprived of liberty in this jail, which
affords many of them more comfortable
living-conditions than they would have
“outside,” as prisoners do in less-enlight-
ened captivity.
The book is mainly absorbing for two
things: the author’s descriptions of her
own feelings and emotions, and her sym-
pathetic “case-histories” of fellow-
prisoners. Nearly all the women were
married and had children ; they could not
credit Helen Bryan’s celibate state. Linda,
showing pictures of her children,
held each picture in front of me for a
long time waiting for my exclamations of
admiration. She, too, looked at each pic-
ture as though for the first time, telling me
things the child said and giving me minute
descriptions of the clothes the child was
wearing.
Gwendolyn was serving a long sentence
for cheque-forgery. Victim of a desper-
ately poor and unhappy home, she was
still in her early twenties and, in jail,
had discovered a marked artistic talent.
She was hoping that on release she could
somehow manage to afford sufficient
training to qualify for a commercial-art
job, but her ambition seemed unlikely to
be fulfilled, which was doubly unfortunate
because: —
“I got so sick of not having my own
clothes that when I'd go into the stores and
look at all the gorgeous things, I’d get that
tight feeling in my chest, I wanted them so
bad. The longer I looked at the things
the tighter and tighter got that feeling and
I knew if I could only have some of those
things, the tight feeling would go away.
Sometimes I have that tight feeling here
at Alderson, and if I can paint it goes
away and the painting is the only thing
that ever made it go away except that night
in the bank.”
Gwendolyn’s family were unable to
save towards making restitution of what
she had stolen. Even her own old clothes
would not fit her when she left prison;
she had put on weight. Neither she nor
her family wanted her to live in her
home-town because of her disgrace—and
she felt so certain that if she could study
art she “could go straight, be a square.”
Some of Miss Bryan’s most thought-
provoking ideas are on the part religion
might play in a jail. She found intense
interest among the women in personal
religious problems, and even girls who
had no religious convictions were keen
to know all about other people’s faiths.
An evening discussion-group on religion
was one of the most popular of many
such. Miss Bryan seems to feel that the
Churches stood for something really solid
in these lives ; she found that the girls,
although they might admit to “sinning”
against society, would never admit that
any action of theirs had been a sin against
their own particular God.
This material may not add very much
to the knowledge of specialists—doctors,
clergy, social-workers and so forth —but,
written simply and sincerely, the contents
and the biographical studies will give
considerable food for thought to most
other readers.
Coarse Cricket
In the first of his happy oddities, The
Theory and Practice of Gamesmanship
(“or the Art of Winning Games Without
Actually Cheating”), Stephen Potter
apologised because “those pressing
requests of my friends which forced me
to rush into print” had left “the huge
subject of cricket a blank in this edition
of my work.” As far as is known, he
has not so far filled-in the blank, but
to some extent the omission is set right
by vSpike Hughes’s The Art of Coarse
Cricket (Museum Press), which carries
a foreword by Denis Compton.
Not that Spike aims at such filling-in;
he isn’t, in fact, concerned with cricket
at large, but only with coarse-cricket.
Still, some of his “ploys” for disconcert-
ing opponents would be useful in any
class of the game. A “gamesman”
scorer, as depicted in the chapter on
“Ethics and Customs,” is a handy pos-
session in coarse-cricket. Also possession
of a good umpire is a considerable
asset:
Even if you arrive at the scene of the
match with only five players it is essential
that you should always arrive with your
own umpire. A good umpire must be above
all suspicion, but having shown that he is
he must not be above exploiting his repu-
tation in favor of your side.,. .When doubts
are raised the batsman is, of course, to be
given the benefit of them. Circumstances
alter cases, and the Coarse Cricket umpire
who does not recognise that this applies
more to your side than to your opponents
is best left behind. Even if he has got a
car.
As all these ploys, gambits and down-
right sharp-practices naturally imply, the
second cardinal principle of coarse-
cricket is that the result of any game is
of the utmost unimportance! The enjoy-
ment of the game’s the thing—the first
principle of c.-c.
Coarse-cricket—-in case anyone doesn’t
know what it is; this reviewer has to
confess previous ignorance, at least of
the name —is all that cricket which is
not (a) first-class, ( b ) minor-counties,
(c) club, ( d) country-house, (e) college
and hospital, (/) school, (g) village. It’s
also contrasted with “fancy-class’ 1
((Continued on page 35)


■ ~-r-nr.
"
'
2
/
J
ill
:- ; ;
iH
ill
~ ~
■> I
f
Just
this number
M 2401
tat if ash far
T. 0. P. S.
(copyright)
T.O.P.S. our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Service is the
easy, modern way to shop. T.0.P.5., which was specially instituted for the
benefit of you, our customers, who find it impossible to come to town to shop,
brings every Department in ANTHONY HORDERNS just as near to you as your own
telephone. If you’re a busy housewife, a harassed business man or an out'of'town tradesman, T.O.P.S. can help you! Gone are
the days when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transferred from one department to
another with consequent delay. Gone, too, are the days when orders from different departments arrived on different days.
Now, an efficient T.O.P.S. assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your door. Or, if
you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S. Shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you!
our Optical department guard pour Eyes at Work and Elay!
'
is*
Your eyes, when in need of attention,
will most likely sound their own warn-
ing. Headaches and eyestrain are but
two symptoms. Often this warning goes
unheeded—but, if you’re wise, you’ll
quickly pay a visit to our special 2nd
Floor Optical Centre, where Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., the con-
sulting optometrist, will be only too
happy to guide you in the care of your
eyes. Special attention is given to all
Doctors’ and Hospital prescriptions.
Anthony
Horderns 1
opens daily at
8.30
a.m.
Every morning, Monday to
Saturday inclusive, Anthony
Horderns’ Store will be open
at half past eight. This
change in Store opening
hours has been made for
your convenience. Shop
early and save lunch-hour
time, benefit from our
many specials. And
remember, our Dining
Room will be open for
breakfast at 8.30, Monday
to Friday.
Australia's biggest
Birthday Party
What a riot of fun the
children have at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
every Saturday morning.
No less than 30 birthdays
are celebrated each week,
and between five and six
hundred children and their
senior escorts enjoy the fun
in one huge Birthday Party.
The fun starts at 9.45 a.m.,
when all the children gather
in our Special Concert Hall.
There they enjoy a full
hour’s entertainment and
community singing, con-
ducted by 2GB artists. Then
at 10.45 a.m., they all troop
down to our Dining Room
for their birthday parties!
What a great idea for
parents! All you do is book
a table for your party, any
number, at a fee of 2/6 per
head, and ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ do the rest.
Free Advice on
Interior Home
Decorating
In our recently opened
“Contemporary Shop” there
are three expert Interior
Decorators who will gladly
give you any assistance you
may need for furnishing,
redecorating, home painting
and planning.
This is a service many
thousands have availed
themselves of and for which
we are famous.
Contemporary Shop
3rd Floor
ADVERTISING
TRUTH
a
Horderns
nthony


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 30, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3881
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams ' K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
MAO'S SEVEN-YEAR PLAN
Nothing could be more absurd than the proceed-
ings of the Security Council on the Guatemalan ques-
tion. A few years ago it would have been dealt with
by the United States and/or Britain knocking together
the heads of everybody concerned, turfing-out the
Communists, stopping the gun-running and closing-off
the whole incident in a few weeks. But under the
principles of U.N.O. this would not be cricket.
The plain facts are that, U.N.O. declarations or
no U.N.O. declarations, the free world, and particularly
the Pacific Ocean world, cannot allow Communism to
establish a striking-base in Guatemala. The Panama
Canal is as near to it as Sydney is to Adelaide, and
the canal is a lifeline of defence which must not be
menaced. It is a matter just as vital to Australia
and to Britain as it is to the U.S.A. This apart from
the fact that Communist capture of Guaftemala would
give the enemy a base from which he could strike
in an hour or so at all the great industrial regions of
the southern United Stated, particularly at the plants
of Texas and southern California. Yet what cannot be
permitted is being argued about in U.N.O. in an
atmosphere which Russia can turn to its own account,
and argued to no purpose, since the ultimate action
by the United States, if all other action fails, seems to
be inescapable.
The same atmosphere has prevailed to a large
extent at Geneva, There has been no “united front” on
the free world’s side. The United States attitude has
been unrealistic. France has been unable to tackle the
matters of Indo-China and Korea with any authority,
her Government being merely a patchwork caretaker
Administration composed partly of parties which are
direct opposites in policy to some other constituent
parties.
There is an air of moral superiority and a dog-
matism about the Washington attitude which irks even
those who like and appreciate the United States. And a
negotiation from a United States point of view seems
to be an operation in which Mr. Dulles tells the rest
where they get off.
There might seem to be hope in the very fact
that this attitude is producing disunity, and that other
great and substantial Powers have broken-off to do
their own negotiating, if the opposite-number in the
negotiation were not committed to Communism and
world revolution. The fact that Chou En-lai, the
Chinese Premier, is willing to meet the French Premier,
to go to India, to invite to China a British delegation
of Labor members, to discuss the release of British
civilian prisoners who have been held incommunicado
without charges against them in his barbarous country,
might all hold a great deal of hope in ordinary
circumstances. And the willingness of Peking to
appoint a diplomatic representative in London, and
the release a week or so ago by the British Board of
Trade of a long list of commodities which may be
exported to Red China, are gleams of sunshine, or
would be if in the background were not the menacing
and Machiavellian programme for Asia publicised in
the United States Senate by Senator Knowland a few
weeks ago and attributed to Mao Tsz-tung, who has not
disowned it. This scheme, framed last year, calls for
isolation of the United States; the placation of the
United Kingdom, which must be persuaded that
capitalism and Communism can live together; the
division of France from Germany ; the persuasion of
Japan that rearmament will antagonise Russia and
China and lead to its destruction.
Mao envisages the “liberation” of the whole of
South-East Asia (including Indonesia) by 1960 through
a series of piecemeal local movements, not ostensibly
Communist, but “national” like that in Indo-China;
and the creation of a mobilised force of 25-million well-
trained men which would not take aggressive action,
but would compel the Western Powers to bleed them-
selves white to the point of economic collapse, apart
from frightening adjacent colonial dominions like
India into submission to the Communist Asian bloc.
At every step from the Indo-China operation onwards
the programme is designed to cause loss of face by
European nations now in Asia. The culmination is
the “liberation of Indonesia, which will fall to the
Communists like ripe fruit and complete the circle
round the Malay Peninsula,” forcing the British to
“realise the hopelessness of putting up a fight and to
withdraw as quickly as they can.” Then will come
the decisive move in the Pacific when Japan will be
forced to capitulate by a show of force.
The conference this week between Churchill and
Eisenhower is more important than the Geneva
Conference. It is a pity that a U.S.-British Common-
wealth meeting could not be arranged to settle an
English-speaking policy which would not be regional
and which would include India, where Nehru, whose
own political training was based on Marxian thought,
however far he has veered away from Communism
since, is meeting Chou En-lai on his way home to
China. As yet the United States does not seem ready
for such a meeting. Its rulers are still thinking in
terms of regional pacts designed to develop United
States influence rather than in terms of world security
as a whole. It is an unreal policy, and one which
Australia has every interest in liquidating instead of
fostering agreements like the Anzus Pact, which
excludes the United Kingdom.
There need be no doubt what the next steps
would be after Indonesia fell to Commuftism. The
Indonesian Foreign Minister who referred to the “other
methods” than negotiation by which New Guinea
might be obtained was not talking through his hat last
week. One of the first things Communism would do
after securing control of Indonesia would be to demand
the liquidation of the White Australia policy. Behind
Peking in that matter would be India, as General
Cariappa has demonstrated clearly by his statements
in Queensland.
This Commonwealth is a base of freedom the
existence of which, nestling against its South Pacific
flank, Moscow would not tolerate for a moment.
Counting the People
The census to be taken tonight has probably come as
a surprise to most householders, despite the earnest
endeavors of the Bureau of Statistics to warn them of
its advent. For one thing, it has arrived only seven
years after the last enumeration—the shortest interval
so far recorded between successive Commonwealth
censuses. Neither the Government nor the bureau
has explained why this year was chosen, though it
seems probable that the intention is to take another
count seven years hence, in 1961, reverting thereafter
to the original pattern of a decennial census which was
upset by the depression and World War 11.
Although the interval since 1947 has been the
shortest intercensal period, it has in many ways seen
greater changes than most of its predecessors. The
growth of population, partly through a recovery in the
birthrate from the low level reached in the ’thirties and
partly through large-scale immigration, has been
massive. In the 14 years from 1933 to 1947 the popula-
tion increased by a shade under 950,000; in the seven
years since 1947 the rise has been more than 1,400,000,
if the Commonwealth Statistician’s precensal guess of
nine million for our current population is correct.
The growth has been by no means uniform ; it
involves both shifts of population and a considerable
change in composition. Enrolment figures for the
Federal election gave an indication of the changing
density of population around the capital cities —a
movement from the centre outwards. This arises from
two causes, both connected with the increased indus-
trialisation of the Commonwealth. Factories have
been supplanting homes in the older residential suburbs,
forcing people —not unwillingly—to move further out
where Housing Commissions and private enterprise
have been building new homes by the thousand.
Factories have also been established in the breathing-
space areas on the outskirts of the cities, following
the modem trend, and have given impetus and direc-
tion to population movements. Of a general movement
from city to country there is no sign, and it is certain
that this census will show that the tendency of the
metropolitan areas to grow at the expense of the rural
districts is continuing.
But by far the biggest change of the intercensal
period has been that wrought by the arrival of large
numbers of migrants from Europe. For the first time
the foreign-born element is numerous enough to be
more than a mathematical curiosity in the census
records. In 1947, largely because of the low immigra-
tion rates of the 1930’5, the percentage of the
Australian-born element stood at a record level,
90.18 per cent. ; and when to this was added the figure
for those born in the United Kingdom the resultant
percentage of citizens of British nationality, 99.49,
was also the highest ever recorded. The actual number
of persons of foreign birth living in Australia at June
30,1947, was only 38,653. Of these the most numerous
groups were Italians, 7172; Greeks, 4504 ; Germans,
2361 ; Yugoslavs, 2096; Dutch, 2001 ; Poles, 1560.
Twenty-five nationalities divided the rest.
When the 1947 census was taken the post-war
inrush of New Australians was just about to begin.
By the end of 1953 it had brought over 600,000 people
to our shores. Of these about 240,000 were British ;
the rest were drawn from all parts of Europe. At
first “displaced persons” —Poles, Russians, Ukrainians,
Hungarians, Czechs and Balts—formed the majority ;
more recently Dutch, Germans, Italians, Greeks and
Yugoslavs have been the most numerous.
Excluding minor groups—though by 1947
standards many of these would have been considered
major—the main nationalities included in the seven
years’ intake are, in round figures: Italians, 80,000;
Poles, 70,000; Dutch, 50,000; Yugoslavs, 25,000;
Germans, 22,000; Russians, 20,000; Hungarians,
13,000; Greeks, 12,000; Czechs, 11,000.
When it is realised that the figures for migrants
from Poland and Holland, for example, represent
more people than had previously come to Australia
from those two countries in the whole stretch of years
since Captain Phillip, some idea will be gained of the
scale of the migration. Yet all these newcomers have
been absorbed into the community without displacing
a single Australian from employment.
The census will, in due course, tell the story of the
New Australians as far as figures, graphs and tables
can tell a story, but it will not, except in an indirect
way, give much of a picture of their impact on the life
of the community. It is no exaggeration to say that
without them our present condition of prosperity could
not have been achieved ; in particular, the housing
programmes of the States would have remained on
paper through lack of basic materials, and develop-
mental works would have been bogged down for want
of labor.
The New Australians began to arrive here at a time
of shortages in all heavy industries, and even by 1951
it could be said that they were producing an eighth
of the whole output of bricks, an eighth of the steel,
a quarter of the cement and an eighth of the timber.
These figures related to “displaced persons” only, and
they at that time comprised only a third of the new
arrivals. Migrants went cane-cutting in Queensland,
fruit-picking in the irrigation-areas of New South
Wales, Victoria and South Australia; they were
employed on railway-construction and -maintenance,
on road-work, water-conservation and hydroelectric
projects; they are in every branch of primary produc-
tion and secondary industry. All nationalities are
represented among the workers on the Snowy
Mountains Scheme, the Eildon Weir in Victoria and
hydroelectric works in Tasmania, and it would be hard
to find a district in the Commonwealth where there is
not at least one family that has resolved to thrust its
European past behind it and settle down to a new life
in Australia.
In a way tonight’s census, by gathering all these
newcomers into its unemotional records for the first
time, gives them official status as Australians. By the
time the next census comes round the vast majority of
the 600,000 will be entitled to regard themselves as
Old Australians,
Wealth and Opportunity
In his policy-speech Mr. Menzies said; “Stability is
not an end in itself. The creation of new wealth and
wider opportunities must go on.” Later in the same
address he added; “True development requires private
action. The work of the company which creates or
expands an industry is developmental.”
Though during its previous three years of office
the Government came in for violent criticism because
of its economic-emergency action, which restricted
the freedom of private enterprise and imposed heavier
taxes on companies as well as individuals, the Ministry
in the later part of its term showed it was genuine
in its belief that enterprise should be as free from
bureaucratic interference as possible—financial controls
were relaxed, taxes were reduced, import-restrictions
were modified.
It is to be expected that the Menzies-Fadden
Government will go further in its new term. Industry
hopes it will get more of the kind of thing that is good
for it over the next three years. There is very little
doubt that industry has been undernourished during
most of the past 15 years. It has been subject to rigid
price-control in a period when costs inflated three times
over and when the purchasing-power of wages actually
increased by 20 per cent, or more, not to mention the rise
in the social-security benefits which became a charge
on the national economy. Though productivity per
person dropped all-round after the 40-hour week was
introduced in 1948, the demands of the consumer-
public increased in that time. In the upshot, industry
(which had in many cases overworked its plant during
war-time) had to be content with much less than its
share of the national income. That reduced share
has not been enough to pay taxes, provide reasonable
rewards for shareholders and at the same time allow
for enough profit to be set aside for purposes of
replacements, expansion and development.
Shareholders in 8.H.P., for example, have had
nothing better than 8$ per cent, for 14 years (in eight
of those years the rate was below 8| per cent.), and
there has been no capital-watering in the time. All
surplus profits have been ploughed back into the
business, yet shareholders have been asked to con-
tribute £l9 million in capital and share-premiums in
order to finance development. The 81 per cent, is worth
less than that rate to those who paid a 10s, premium
on the shares. It is not a satisfactory return; and,
though there are other key industries which pay a
higher rate, it can be taken that profits of Australian
industry as a whole are not high enough to create the
“new wealth and wider opportunities” which Mr.
Menzies says must go on being created.
B.H.P. has been fortunate in being able to find so
much of the capital it has needed from its own internal
finance. But shareholders have had a long wait indeed
for anything like an attractive reward. Some companies
which have been more liberal with dividends than
B.H.P. may find later on that, through the high cost
of plant-replacement, they have really been paying
dividends out of capital.
Young industries need special consideration. They
need to be allowed to accumulate capital. Their com-
petition forces older firms to be more efficient. Only
private enterprise, in the light of considerable actual
experience, is capable of creating wealth and capital.
Governments by themselves cannot create these things,
but they can, by wise legislation and administration,
be of the greatest help in their creation. And it should
be remembered that, in a freely competitive economy,
he who serves the public best makes the highest profits.
Profits are the driving-force of the free-enterprise
economy and the foundation of most industrial
expansion. They induce thrift, they provide capital
and they finance national industry.


A GLORIOUS OPPORTUNITY
“It gives you a. chance to tell the truth about all of them. It’s confidential.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
State Politics.
Whatever one may feel about the faults
of the Federal system, a Federation Aus-
tralia still remains ; and the Liberal and
Country parties, now that they have been
successful in the Federal House of Repre-
sentatives election, should give energetic
attention to the next State elections, and
particularly to N. 'S. Wales and Victorian
elections. These States are key members
of the Federal system, and in the matter
of population, finance and industry repre-
sent more than half the resources of the
Commonwealth.
Of the two principal States, N. S. Wales
is in need of a political clean-up more
urgently than Victoria, though in the
latter State things have been happening
which would have startled its citizens
of an earlier generation. In N.S.W.
“Labor” has ruled for over 13 years
without a break; and it has become
gross and corrupt politically. Under its
administration justice has tended to be-
come “just us” ; high posts in the public
administration have gone to defeated or
discredited “Labor” politicians; trade-
unions often override the management
of State undertakings and dictate to the
Government wherever public interest
cuts across the vested interests of trade-
unionism ; matters of high economics—
such as the 40-hour-week question and
the spending of astronomical sums on
public works—have become the subject of
political window-dressing; local-govern-
ment has been gerrymandered; State
transport services have almost broken-
down in times of peak-loading; and, all
in all, N.S.W. has tended to become de-
crepit wherever the dead hand of “Labor”
politics has touched. There have been
cases of out-and-out bribery and corrup-
tion in “Labor” local-government affairs,
while the Doyle-Arthur association
shocked the community.
Sections of the police-force are also
under a cloud, more particularly since
the Government has jibbed at investigat-
ing repeated allegations of assault and
admissions of police bribery at a Sydney
two-up school.
Never was a State longer overdue for a
political clean-up than N. S. Wales. It
is politically degenerate in so many
fundamental things. Its influence on the
remainder of Australia is a very big one,
because of its industrial and financial
magnitude. Any State can, to some ex-
tent, hamper the Federal Government in
its economic objectives, and N. S. Wales
has greater obstructive powers than any
other State.
The N.S.W. State Liberal party —the
party upon which the brunt of any clean-
ing-up would fall —lacks impressive
leadership, and new blood is needed
right through it. It appears that few
people take State politics seriously
any more; but if we are to continue
having State Governments then it is
obvious that we should have strong
material in them. Constitutionally, State
Governments have, in peace-time, far
wider powers, especially with regard to
industry, than the Commonwealth has.
It is difficult to understand why Parlia-
ment House in Sydney, for instance,
doesn’t attract more impressive political
personalities. The Queen’s visit showed
up the mediocrity of State Parliamen-
tarians both in N.S.W. and Victoria.
These are years of great moment for
Australia. Population is growing faster
than most people dared hope a genera-
tion ago, and much national work has
to be done. The States have an immense
and varied responsibility, yet only South
Australia, with its Liberal Government,
shows that it has its eye keenly on the
ball as regards industrial development.
A pound spent by Playford probably
goes further and is more reproductive
than in any other State.
In Victoria it is clearly time that the
Liberals and Country party settled their
differences—no time could be better than
the present, when Victoria has shown a
definite swing politically against the
Socialists. And there is little question
that with the Commonwealth and the
State Governments of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria resolved to keep costs down, to run
their essential services efficiently, to
increase industrial productivity and to
spend money on public works with an
eye to their national usefulness instead
of merely their immediate job-giving
capacity, Australia would move into a
period when standards of politics and
economic conditions as we know them
today would be left for dead.
Coal and Costs
In his report on last year’s operations,
the chairman of the Joint Coal Board
warned that demand for New South
Wales coal was declining in the two main
buying States, Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, and that consumers could now
afford to be “choosey” in the matter of
coal-quality and that mines producing
inferior coal were unable to find a mar-
ket. This foreshadowed the closing of
some pits, and the board hoped it would
be possible for displaced miners to trans-
fer to other areas.
The matter has been discussed with
the miners and owners, without much
being accomplished, and last week it was
announced that South Waratah colliery,
which employs 250 men, would shortly
suspend production because of loss of
trade, and that the Coal Board would
cease to accept coal from several other
mines, which would mean their closing-
down. The reaction of the Miners’
Federation has been to suggest:
(1) Reduction of working-week to 35
hours.
(3) Washing of coal.
(3) Marketing of coal by-products.
Whatever effect the second and third
proposals might have in the way of in-
creasing sales would be offset by the
higher costs of the shorter working-week.
Mr. Cochran has already pointed out
that the industry’s greatest handicap is
high costs; these cannot be reduced by
paying the same number of men the same
wage to produce less coal. Since 1946
the wholesale price of coal has risen
“almost twice as far and twice as fast as
other commodities produced in Aus-
tralia,” says the Coal Board report, and
this, as much as the irregularity of sup-
plies in the early post-war years, is the
reason why the other States pushed on
with developing their own resources of
local coal.
J-lomes and the People
A big change has come over the housing
situation in the past three years. Many
new homes have been built, and the effect
was clearly noticeable in the alteration in
the size of Federal constituencies at the
last election. Considerable movement of
population has been going on, mainly
from congested city areas to the outer
suburbs. But the housing shortage has
not yet been overcome, and it is un-
likely to be so long as State “fair”-rents
legislation operates as it does.
As Prime Minister Menzies has ex-
plained, the Commonwealth Government
has no general Constitutional authority
over, or responsibility for, housing. Its
authority is limited to housing in the
Territories, for the services, and for ex-
servicemen. But notwithstanding this it
has found practically all the money spent
by Governments on housing in all the
States. In the past three years of the
Menzies Government 227,000 houses
were built in Australia, compared with
140.000 in the last three years of the
Chifley Government’s term. In the past
year the Commonwealth Bank advanced
£12.6 million to building-societies and
co-operatives, and another- £7.4 million
for other home-building.
During its new term the Menzies Gov-
ernment is pledged to continue support-
ing building-societies, and to increase
from £2OOO to £2750 the limit on
advances for the purchase of existing
war-service homes. It will authorise the
States to sell Housing Agreement homes
to ex-servicemen with a maximum
advance (treated as owing to the War
Service Homes Division) of £2750, and
to tenants who are not ex-servicemen on
a minimum deposit of 10 per cent, and a
maximum indebtedness of £2750, to be
paid over 45 years at 4£ per cent, interest.
Mr. Menzies, in his policy-speech, did
not promise any reduction of interest as a
general thing for home-buying purposes.
Although the credit-restriction policy
of 1951 was hailed as a disaster in sec-
tions of the building trade, the fact
remains that then number of houses
completed each quarter since then has
averaged a record post-war rate. About
20.000 houses and flats have been finished
every three months. True, the number
started in the December quarter of 1953
was below the number completed. But
this is mainly indicative of the fact that
a long-standing lag is being overcome.
Canberra authorities say that “house-
building is now well on the way to healthy
stability at a level somewhat higher than
the annual need for dwellings arising from
marriages and migration.” The Depart-
ment of National Development considers
that the maintenance of a rate of 80,000
flats and houses a year has been made
possible through the large number of
owner-builders, who build without the
services of a contractor; they account for
about 40 per cent, of recent completions,
compared with 30 per cent, in 1950-51.
Apparently they take longer to complete
a job than a contractor, for the depart-
ment is of the opinion that “nearly two
out of every three houses are being built
by an owner-builder.” It goes on to
say:
As the industry appears unable to reduce
prices sufficiently to attract demand away
from people who become owner-builders,
any substantial increase in its output
seems to be contingent upon greater
availability of finance on terms suitable for
persons without a large cash deposit.
Building costs have been fairly stable
since the end of 1951. At the present
time, because of an increase in com-
mercial and industrial building activity,
the labor and materials position is becom-
ing a little more difficult.
Final Tally
As soon as it had become apparent that
the Government had won the Federal
election, “Labor” propagandists and
apologists from Dr. Evatt down began
to take what solace they could from a
claim that the aggregate vote had been
overwhelmingly in favor of their party,
which had won a moral victory but had
been robbed of office by the inequitable
distribution of electorates. There was a
touch of sardonic humor in the latter
part of the lament; the last redistribution
was carried out while “Labor” was in
office, and when, a short time ago, the
Government suggested adjusting the
boundaries before the election, Evatt and
Co. insisted that no alterations should
be made until after the current census.
As to “Labor’s” claim to an over-
whelming aggregate vote, this was made
when scores of thousands of votes in
country seats were still uncounted; it
also took no account of uncontested seats.
Official figures from the Commonwealth
Electoral Office are now available, and
although they show that the Opposition
polled more votes than the Government,
the margin is much smaller than the
propagandists made it:
Govt. Lab. Com. Indep. Total.
N.S.W. .. 854,705 953,360 31,077 41,514 1,880,656
Vic. .. 591,568 643,046 12,556 1,247,170
Q’land .. 374,800 292,510 6,755 17,811 691,876
S.A. . . 150,708 202,446 3,668 2,218 359,040
W.A. . . 150,420 134,262 1,878 9,521 296,081
Tas. . . 82,243 81,661 688 164,592
2,204,444 2,307,285 56.622 71,064 4,639,415
“Labor’s” apparent majority of a little
over 100,000 is subject to several ifs and
buts. In the first place there are the
uncontested seats to be considered ; of
these six were held by the Government
parties and one by “Labor.” On the
basis of previous contests there is justi-
fication for adding 139,252 to the Govern-
ment vote and 89,719 to “Labor for
these seven seats. In Port Adelaide there
was no Government candidate, so that
Liberal voters had to choose between
“Labor” and Communist. Albert Thomp-
son’s record majority of well over 40,000
obviously included many Government
votes —on the basis of the 1951 election,
12,342. These must be deducted from
the “Labor” total and added to the
Government. Similarly in McPherson
“Labor” voters may be assumed to have
helped Independent Cilento by the figure
the “Labor” candidate polled in 1949.
This would add 8436 to the “Labor”
tally.
These adjustments would give the fol-
lowing result: —
Government .. .. .. 2,356,038
“Labor” .. ■ • • • 2,393,098
Majority for “Labor” .. 37,060
“Labor’s” total would, of course, be
further increased by the addition of the
Communist vote —despite “Labor’s’
attempt to disown their ally, they could
probably count on 90 per cent, of the
Comrades’ preferences. This, however,
would probably be offset by the Inde-
pendent vote, which would tend far more
to the Government than to “Labor.”
On balance it appears that “Labor” was
in front by a short head. Whether that
constitutes a moral victory is a matter
of opinion.
Buying "On Tick"
E, B. Coles, retiring president of the
Australian Council of Retailers, has been
warning the trade against overdoing
“terms-sales” business. He advised re-
tailers against accepting very small
deposits and giving lengthy terms for
repayment. The same day the general
manager of the Australian Gurantee Cor-
poration, Mr. Keith Bain, said chaos
would result from no-deposit loans. O.
D. A. Bisset, of Mutual Acceptance, felt
that the growth in hire-purchase business
could not go on at its present rate.
Consumer-credit has become one of the
features of our time. The motor-car
business depends on it to an exceptional
extent, and always has done so; but
furniture, radios, washing-machines.
other domestic appliances and even in-
dustrial and agricultural machinery are
very often bought under the hire-pur-
chase system. Cash-orders, anothei form
of consumer-credit, can be used to buy
almost anything on sale in a city store.
It is generally accepted that Australians
are not yet committed to hire-purchase
obligations to the same extent that Ameri-
cans are; in the U.S.A. there are far
more “gadgets” to be bought. But in the
United States motor-cars, washing-
machines and other domestic appliances
can be bought for a smaller proportion of
a worker’s take-home pay than is the
case in Australia, and the number of
items bought on hire-purchase in standard
Australian and American households
may not give a true comparison.
What is clear in Australia is the fact
that term-sales have increased very
rapidly over the past three years, partly
as a result of the lag in re-equippmg
homes following the war, partly because
of the great number of new homes that
have been set up, and partly because
inflation has reduced the value of per-
sonal savings built up over a lengthy
period.
There has been a huge expansion in
the funds advanced by hire-purchase
houses and in their raisings from the
investing public. Interest offered on
long-term and short-term borrowing has
been rising at a time when the bond-rate
has been tending to shorten.
During 1953 the average percentage of
sale-value financed in the motor-car busi-
ness was 55 per cent., in household and
personal goods about 75 per cent. Goods
sold under hire-purchase in 1953 totalled
£l6O million, and the amount financed
was £94 million. During the present year
all indications are that the figures have
grown; also, that some finance com-
panies are so eager to get business that
they are prepared to finance the whole
of the cost of sale in some cases, or, at
least, to reduce the deposit asked for.
Without doubt consumer-credit has its
virtues. Among other things, it probably
tends to reduce absenteeism from work
among trade-unionists, whose wives
would resent being dispossessed of their
washing-machines through an unnecessary
drop in the pay-envelope. And many
homes with young families can see a
greater paying-off capacity in a year or
two to come, though the particular com-
modity bought on terms is most needed
now. But the system shouldn’t be over-
loaded. Abuse of good things can make
them very disreputable things.
In England Now
“C.S.”: England had a spring this year
that was dry and bitterly cold. The tulips,
the apple-blossom, the field flowers, the
chestnut-candles and the lilacs bloomed
as ever, and in the lanes and parks the
blackbirds and finches sang. But rainless
grey skies and cold winds ushered April
out, the “drought” broke in May after
two hot days (70 deg. F.), and except for
some odd calm twilight-hours in which
skylarks mounted on singing wings in the
evening glow, the weather simply changed
from dry and cold to wet and cold. The
English looked hopefully for “flaming
June.” It is come. Drenching rain, now,
and still the persistent easterly winds,
with their chill from the steppes of Russia
or somewhere. And suddenly it is dawn-
ing on the English that the longest day is
past them, that now the days will “begin
to draw in,” and that unless July and
August are very kind indeed all they can
hope is that next spring and summer will
be better.
Does it dash them? Not on your life.
The milkman, in rubber boots and two
overcoats and a sou’-wester, goes whistling
as cheerfully as a canary, and so, figura-
tively speaking, does everyone else —
except, perhaps, some shivering Austra-
lians. The Whitsun weekend from June
5 to June 7, cold and wet as it was, saw
hundreds of thousands along the southern
sea-resorts. At Brighton, Hastings,
Bournemouth and the rest, they went de-
terminedly and sat and nattered in mile-
long ranks of deck-chairs, or strolled on
“the prom.,” or rode on the merry-go-
round, And on the Monday evening they
stood patiently in droves in the rain wait-
ing for the bus or the train home or to
go to the “cinema.”
Saturday, June 12, was the golden jubi-
lee of the establishment of the Royal
Naval Volunteer Reserve. The Queen
was to review a great parade of them on
Horse Guards Parade. In the ranks were
veterans of up to 80 years of age and
more. The Queen reviewed them, in sheets
of pouring rain which drenched them so
that when marching Wrens gave the “eyes
right” water spouted from the hollows of
their tricorne hats. The Duke of Edin-
burgh’s blue ribbon of the Garter clung
C Continued on next page).


POLITICAL POINTS
The Melbourne session of the Petrov
Commission begins today, first witness
Vladimir Petrov.
•
The Loan Council was scheduled to
begin its annual wrangle yesterday, to be
followed by the Premiers’ Conference.
Only Playford among the six Premiers
had given any sign of realism about
loan-money; his programme called for
slightly less than last year. Those of the
others who had disclosed their plans were
all following the usual habit of taking
last year’s “demand” and adding 10 or 15
per cent, to it.
It is not likely that the Commonwealth
will agree to go beyond the 1953-54 total,
£2OO million, and as that included £95
million provided out of Commonwealth
funds, complaints by Cahill and Cain of
their public-works being strangled, ham-
strung, or otherwise maltreated will
sound no more convincing than they did
last year. To the extent that the loan-
market is expected to improve the Com-
monwealth will probably reduce its own
support of State works. Any criticism
this may bring has already been answered
in advance by the critics themselves dur-
ing the Federal-election campaign.
• o
Premier Cain spoke at the weekend of
suggesting that all loan-allocations should
be made on the basis of a five-year pro-
gramme. He, like Cahill, had already
rejected Menzies’s suggestion of a joint
committee to plan works-spending, but
his own scheme sounds as if it would
need some such committee to implement
it.
• •
Federal Parliament doesn’t look like
meeting before August, and some of the
State Parliaments are still in their winter
coma, but in the matter of hibernation
they have a lot to learn from South Africa
—the Union Parliament went into recess
a fortnight ago and will not reassemble
until January, 1955.
• •
The Victorian railways commissioners
seem to have declared Red Brown black.
• »
In a Sydney court last week a store-
keeper on whose behalf a District Court
Judge, a police-sergeant and several
prominent citizens gave evidence of good
character was fined £lOO for not selling
enough liquor. His licence entitled him to
sell in minimum quantities of a dozen
bottles ; he was charged with having sold
four bottles. The magistrate said he was
obliged to inflict the fine, but would
order that no conviction be recorded. All
this seems to add up to the fact that
everyone connected with the case thought
the law under which the prosecution was
launched a very stupid law. And so it is.
• •
Although there are no Assembly elec-
tions due in Victoria until the end of
1955 —unless the Legislative Council
forces one —the Liberal-Country party is
already preparing by calling for nomina-
tions for 60 of the 66 seats under the
new electoral boundaries based on the
plan of two Assembly seats in each
Federal electorate. No L.C.P. candidates
will be put up for the six seats included
in the three Federal divisions, Murray,
Mallee and Gippsland, at present held by
the Country-party; elsewhere Country-
party candidates will be opposed. It is
the present intention to oppose the
Hollway Liberals in all their four seats.
Present strengths in the Victorian
Assembly are Labor, 37; Independent
Labor, 1; L.C.P., 11 ; Hollway Liberals,
4; Country-party, 12.
• •
In passing sentence of death on Leon-
ard Keith Lawson, who had been found
guilty of two charges of rape and one of
assault with intent to commit rape,
Clancy, J., in the Sydney Central Court,
said:
I should not want you to leave this court
in the belief that you can expect any
clemency in any recommendation by me
to the Executive Council. I accept the law
as it is and I think it is a just law. I think
that in your case there is no reason why it
should not be carried into execution.
Everyone knows that the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government is opposed to the
death-penalty, although it has never mus-
tered up sufficient courage to abolish it
from the Statute Book. His Honor’s
words will make it perfectly clear that
Lawson will have to thank political
dogma for saving his neck, not judicial
recommendation to mercy.
• •
On Friday night astronomers on Mars
will have their best opportunity for 15
years of finding out whether the Earth
is inhabited.
• •
A redistribution of Federal electorates
will be one of the outcomes of the 1954
Census. Judging by the enrolments at
the time of the recent Federal election,
Queensland seems likely to lose a seat
to South Australia. The 18 Queensland
electorates have an average of under
41,000 voters ; South Australia’s 10 seats
run close to 46,000 each. State represen-
tation for the rest of the Commonwealth
is not likely to be altered, but there will
be big readjustments in the boundaries of
most metropolitan electorates to cope
with the movement of population to the
outer-suburban areas. Some inner-sub-
urban seats may disappear altogether in
the new cut-up.
This trend, of course, is the natural
corollary of the massive figures for home-'
“Then it will go to the Minister for External Affairs, who'll take it to the
United Nations General Assembly, which will refer it to the Security
Council—then you'll cop it, my friend!"
last week when 300 engineers, moulders
and boilermakers decided to end their
fifteen-weeks-old strike at Walkers,
in Maryborough, after an eleventh-
hour intervention by H, J. Harvey,
of the Industrial Court. The strike
began in March, when the men s
demands for an extra 28s. a week on
their skill margins were refused. As the
weeks dragged on the company was
forced to lay-off another 300 men, and
Maryborough’s largest industrial enter-
prise slowed to a halt. Walkers’ direc-
tors announced, after fruitless union-
employer conferences, that shareholders
would be called together; they hinted at
abandoning most of their shipbuilding
programme and shutting down much of
the plant.
Three days before the shareholders’
meeting Mr. Harvey flew from
Brisbane to supervise a compul-
sory conference his court had called.
It began at 10 a.m. and, apart from brief
breaks, went on until nearly midnight,
by which hour the strike was all over bar
formal announcements.
Terms: No victimisation, eight weeks’
retrospective payment of the court’s mar-
ginal-increase and an annual bonus fluc-
tuating with the company’s dividend.
• •
N. S. Wales Opposition-leader Treatt
has been warning that the activities of
the Cahill Government in the past year
or so indicate that it is “treading pur-
posefully along the road that leads to a
tenants wanting to buy commission
homes. It was almost as if they sup-
ported the Dedman creed that home-
ownership created little capitalists. Now
all that is changed. Their darling desire
is for every tenant to become an owner,
and the Commonwealth Government is
held out as the ogre preventing that desir-
able event.
In his policy-speech Menzies spoke of
altering the Commonwealth-States Hous-
ing Agreement to enable tenants to buy
homes on a basis of 10 per cent, deposit.
Victorian Housing Minister Hayes isn’t
satisfied with this; he wants the deposit
to be lower. As a popularity-chasing
stunt that is all very well, but as a prac-
tical policy it is bad. Even on a 10-per-
cent. basis it takes quite a while for the
buyer’s weekly payments to build up any
reasonable equity in a property; it is
not practical to drop the cash-down pro-
portion any lower.
“Easy payments” sound very plausible,
but if they are made too easy on the pur-
chaser they become onerous on the
economy. This is the point retail-trader
Coles and others emphasised last week in
connection with hire-ptxrchase and time-
payment.
• •
Ernie O’Dea’s Shop Assistants’ Union,
which has so far managed to thwart all
attempts to have shopping-hours tailored
to suit the public instead of the people
behind the counter, is now launching an
all-out campaign to restrict still further
the limited service given to the community
in New South Wales. The aim is the com-
plete abolition of Saturday shopping.
Its programme involves;
1. A five-day shopping week.
2. No handing-over of trading-hour con-
trol to local-government bodies.
3. No extension of hours for selling of
petrol.
The union is also insistent on retaining
its privilege of informing on people who
infringe the law on shopping-hours and
of benefiting from any fines imposed for
such breaches.
On past performances the Cahill Gov-
ernment may be expected to take its
orders from O’Dea. After all, it is 18
months to the next State election, and
the N.S.W. public has shown it will stand
anything !
• •
Federal Cabinet seems to have beer
reconstructed by everyone except the
Prime Minister.
• •
Westralia’s new cement-plant, near
Coogee—a few miles south of Fremantle
—is expected to be in production within
12 months with an intended output
of 100,000 tons a year. The British spon-
sors, Rugby Portland Cement, may
later enter the house-construction busi-
ness in the West; they are already in
that field in Scotland, where they have
been building concrete homes for some
time.


Society
''AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLBS INKS''
T NOTICE that scientists have invented
1 a drug which takes people back
to earliest childhood. It is called LSD ;
it couldn’t have a more appropriate name.
There is nothing like LSD (or lack of
it) to make people revert to childhood.
It turns painters into pot-boilers, honest
citizens into absconders, forgers, burglars
“I see by the paper everything is washed-up between my husband and me.”
and s.p.-men, and good workmen into
jerry-builders. LSD turns potential
statesmen into party-politicians, and
M.P.’s into salary-grabbers (i.e., into
babies fighting for the bottle), and decent,
intelligent business people into children
playing marbles for keeps. It turns once-
loving wives into litigious viragoes
fighting for alimony; and can turn a
father’s death-bed into a battleground
between sons and daughters. Why on
earth scientists bothered to produce it
synthetically in a test-tube I haven’t a
clue. —“Pawang.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Viper”: A Mr. Jess Barker, going
off-duty as Miss Susan Hayward’s hus-
band, has knocked-back $lOO,OOO ali-
mony from his film-rich wife. The
woman must be mad to make such
an offer. Notorious unionists, all other
women will boycott her films. But it
is this Mr. Barker who is the arch-traitor
to his sex. What grounds for renuncia-
tion: “How would it make me look?”
How tragic that Mr. Barker should allow
his pride to quash such a precedent.
■£♦ *4t
“Temp. Exile” (Eng.): When my
wanderings took me there on a recent
Sunday, Canterbury was much as I’d
vaguely expected to find it; one sight I
hadn’t expected was the Australian flags
stitched on the backs of a heap of hiking-
packs stacked in the entrance to the
Cathedral. Geoff Chaucer never travel-
led with such beautiful youths and
maidens, and I believe Australian litera-
ture is losing something through not
having a chronicler with these bands of
young Australians roving Britain and
Europe. On this Sunday they—and I
—heard a dear old soul, white hair stand-
ing out on each side of his head, frail
body hidden in scarlet and gold vest-
ments, clear voice, not at all parsonical,
reading the lesson . . . the Red Dean.
+♦♦
“Shotrope”: A while back one of
Sydney’s best-known commercial divers
was fined a bob for failing to give the De-
partment of Labor and Industry, as per
regulation, 24 hours’ notice before com-
mencing his submarine work. The diver
reckons most of his work is emergency
stuff, and the regulation’s time-require-
ment is (to be naval) “wet.” He’s right,
of course. A ship, casting-off, has a wire
foul her screw; a highly-important sub-
marine-cable fails; a big-ship buoy’s
ground-tackle is suspected of losing
ground—all these, and scores of other
top-priority jobs, require immediate
remedial action. But the sea, as Conrad
found, looks after its own. Perhaps the
Minister for Labor and Industry might
one day find himself involuntarily sub-
merged.
* * ❖
“Sno”; Sydney “Sun” has given away
the search for the Abominable Snowman.
There should be a royal commission
into the paper’s conduct in the Hima-
layas, The A.S.’s life is tough enough
without all this persecution. Think!
Snowmen face their draughty milieu
completely unclad. In those regions they
can have nothing to eat, except, perhaps,
an occasional “Sun” reporter. But even
Snowmen can’t live without air, for the
most elastic metabolism has its limita-
tions. Yet the “Sun” blandly confesses
to hounding Yeti to “altitudes above
20,000 ft.” Monstrous! And not an
oxygen-outfit among the whole Abomin-
ation. Surely these Himalayan gentlemen
are already quite scarce enough (as the
paper well knows) without being harried
even faster towards the limbo of the
Dodo, the Great Auk, and Evatt elec-
tion-promises.
“Jellyfish”: Watched, disinterestedly,
as the waiter brought the wine to a near-
by table in a Sydney nitery ; poured a
drop, and stood back, indifferent, for the
young swain to taste it. The young ’Un
leisurely finished his conversation with
Blondie, turned, sipped the wine—and
ordered the waiter to bring another
bottle, this time at the right temperature!
When I’d recovered from the shock it
occurred to me that that young feller,
when the barber held up the mirror
“Yes, I have a complaint, doctor —there's no BULLETIN in your
waiting-room."
behind his head (and waited) would say:
“That’s b awful! Have another go! ”
♦> *X* ❖
“Camshaft”: Can’t let that “Vintage
Model” cartoon (B. 16/6/’54) pass with-
out comment —“vintage,” in the sense
observed by the Vintage Sports Car Club
of Australia, is a measure not of age
but of quality. Thus, while my own two
cars, which share 56 years almost evenly
between them, are not vintage, a rare
few cars with only six years behind them
are. Joke of the cartoon, however, might
be on Heth, as he has accurately drawn
the original 1914 Oxford, first car made
by William Morris that was; and that
disheartened vendor could risk adding a
nought or two to his price if his specimen
is genuine.
♦> * *
“Spokeshave”; Melbourne National
Gallery Director Daryl Lindsay and
artist Oban have aroused some heat by
publicly stating that they were bored
with giving Adult Education lectures,
because 99 per cent, of the faces looked
“dull and stupid.” They were a sitting-
shot for any able controversialist; but
nobody thought of Ethel Mannin’s retort
to a person who complained of boredom
at a party when some of the most dis-
tinguished of the literary and artistic
fraternity Were present: “Only the bor-
ing are bored.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: It has now become an inviol-
able part of the ritual in strip-story writ-
ing that whenever a character is subjected
to physical violence in any degree he
should exclaim “Ouch!” I have heard
the expression used in real life only once,
by a small boy, and with such delibera-
tion that it was obviously a comic-strip
quote. But I liked the way one strip-
character gave voice to it at the exact
moment that he was on the receiving-end
of a terrific uppercut which snapped his
jaws together and laid him out cold.
Presumably he possessed' the gift of being
able to talk through his ears.
❖ ❖
“8.A.K.”: Somebody must have been
confusing simple facts when the number
of slashes across a loaf’s top was claimed
in court to be the factor distinguishing
Vienna-bread from ordinary dodger
(B. 9/6/’54). Vienna-bread is—or was
when I was building bakers’-ovens—
baked in a Vienna-oven. An ordinary
oven has a level floor and no provision
for introducing steam inside. The floor
of the Vienna-oven rises six inches from
door to back, the crown follows the same
rake, and thus, because steam rises, a
pocket is formed in which the steam is
automatically stored. A small cast-iron
box, built in the brick wall of the oven,
feeds the steam in. It is the steam which
gives Vienna —and other “fancy” breads
—the rich, milky flavor. Before the war,
when the customer was sometimes right,
all the bakers in our district installed
Vienna-ovens and sold Vienna-loaves at
ordinary prices. Most of .them baked all
their bread with the steam process. Now?
An old retired baker puts it neatly: “They
don’t make bread these days, they make
money.”
>+* ♦♦♦
“Kelms”: Don’t know where the best
coffee is made (B. 9/6/’54), but the stuff
I drank in War II in Syria was, at least,
coffee. Pure black, with a soft, velvety
depth, it was served in cups not much
bigger than thimbles. You sipped it, and
the taste was so vile that you wondered
why on earth you ordered the second
cup. Your wonder increased when you
came back for more the next night, and
within a week you were wondering why
you couldn’t do without it. For weeks
after we left Syria there was something
missing from my diet. I’ve never tasted
coffee like it since—perhaps I’ve never
tasted coffee since—and I can’t imagine,
now, what it tasted like. All I know is
I never liked the stuff.
♦> $
“Mabsout”: Melbourne “Argus” re-
cently described a new U.S. mail-order
test which, its inventors claim, will tell
an expectant mother whether she is to
have a boy or a girl: “All the potential
mom has to do is damp her tongue with
a paper-wafer previously treated with a
secret chemical and, when it’s dry, post
it back to a laboratory in New York’s
Wall-street.” They say the test is very
popular, but I doubt whether it will last,
even in the U.S. No woman would care
to remain speechless for an indefinite
period, and there is always the risk of
her tongue being lost in the post. How-
ever, the institute probably advises using
the registered-post. Then there is the
husband’s side of it. An enforced silence
on the part of his wife might be easy
enough to endure, but imagine how she
would make up for it once she got her
tongue back!
$ ♦>
“Nakhoda”: An interesting example
of the dubiousness of perception was a
photograph of a flying-saucer sent in for
the Melbourne “Argus” £lOOO-prize offer.
It looked like a witch’s hat flying through
the air, with the lady’s broomstick pro-
truding from it. The sender explained
that he was photographing a wedding at
Namurkah (Vic.) when he caught a flash
from the corner of his eye and automatic-
ally fired the shutter. Expert inspection
said it was an example of halation, due
to light from the sun being reflected
on to the lens from some forward part
of the apparatus. I once took a photo
of a grave in the old English cemetery
on Labuan Island; when the Chinese
photographer developed the film a ghost
was revealed arising from the tomb.
There was a very sad tragedy connected
with that grave, and my photo took-in
everybody on the island.
“Melb.”: A few months after War I
1 took a casual snap of a wrecked tank
on the Western Front, and a few weeks
later another of a sunset in the Indian
Ocean. A few weeks after that I photo-
graphed a toy-aeroplane hanging on a
veranda at Sydney’s Palm Beach. Using
the same little camera as an enlarger, I
put the three together and showed the
resultant picture to an airman. Huh,
he said, “those were the little swine that
gave us so much trouble.’ I then showed
it to a photographic expert; he was
taken-in as completely as the airman.
TOCCATA
“The Department of Music, the University of
Sydney, is seeking donations to buy a harpsi-
chord, which should be addressed to the
Harpsichord Fund of the department.”
Some modem critics have been bored
By players on the harpsichord,
A matter that would cause a scandal
To men like Purcell, Bach or Handel;
Frenchmen such as Couperin
Expressed by its metallic twang
The hard French voice’s steel carillon
That rings through Baudelaire and Villon ;
It forms the backbone to Corelli
When lovely fiddles shake like felly —•
Our age of progress has abused it:
Scarlatti, Haydn, Mozart, used it.
Sad that no harpsichord should be
At Sydney University,
For every year, as they did last,
They conjure up out of the past
Music so beautiful, so rare,
As never may be heard elsewhere,
And such as hunger for perfection
Can only spoil with deep dejection
Works by Rousseau and John Blow
With pianoforte-continuo.
There may be some content to wham a
Tack into the piano-hammer...
Of such, thank heaven, I’m not one:
It will not do ; it is not done !
Professor Peart, while looking round
In England, so I hear, has found
A harpsichord: £soo —
thus a chance for you
To change yourself a note or two ;
And in the Wallace Theatre
With wife or friend you’ll turn to her:
“You heard that B Flat?” “Yes, divine !”
And then you’ll say, “That note is mine !”
If this should seem a minor sale.
Then buy yourself a major scale:
For gifts like these, the laws relax —
They’re free as harpsichords of tax!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'T'HE Admiral’s barge was alongside the
flagship in Hervey Bay (Q ). Duty-
hands had loaded all that was necessary
to make a nice little picnic—camp-stools,
table, tarpaulin for shade, several boxes
of tinned stuff and a couple of cases of
the right kind of refreshment. Finally,
up the quarterdeck hatch the great man
himself. As the captain saluted, he
wished, “Have a good time, sir.” “Oh,
rather,” came the reply. “Nothing like
roughing it occasionally, you know.” —
“Kellick.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pitt St.” (Eng.); Ordinary window-
blinds, as we know them, are practically
non-existent in England. Here one draws
the curtains when going to bed and get-
ting up, or if in a room facing the street.
In seven weeks during which I toured
most of the south-east, south and south-
west of England, I was unable to locate
one window-blind or (a real deprivation)
one shower-bath. There are plentiful
examples of that form of bedroom china
which has long been a rarity in Australia ;
some of the decorative patterns with
which they’re embellished, together with
the quality of the china and the glazing
thereon, will probably some day make
them collectors’-pieces.
♦> +>
“Dicky”: “Swelpme” (B. 16/6/’54) is
right; his Italian friend’s “Salute!” is
more-or-less the equivalent of our “Bless
you! ” as well as meaning “Here’s luck! ”
as you toss your chianti down. Accord-
ing to legend, saying “Bless you!” when
someone sneezes comes from pre-Chris-
tian ancients, who believed that when
they sneezed the soul left the body while
the sneeze was in progress; if a friend
said a swift blessing, it prevented any
evil spirits from usurping the accommo-
dation while the soul was absent.
“ It took perseverance—but I got a good show.”
“Param”: Sydney’s 2SM announcer, in
a to-blazes-with-those-highbrows tone:
“Now we dare, yes DARE, to play Rach-
maninov’s Second Piano Concerto.
Hackneyed? No doubt some will think
so.” Without comment, about halfway
through, the familiar musical goo was
replaced with some quite different, and
genteely obscure, concerto. What hap-
pened? Did a troop of guerrilla high-
brows storm the bastions of 2SM and
wrench Rachmaninov from the turn-
table?
$ $
“Metralia”: To the impure all things
are impure. The Lautrec film begat a
sizzling trade in prints of his paintings,
and when Sydney cop-morals were
appalled by the Lautrec cafe-mural in
King’s Cross this trade sizzled to a
scorching climax (as with
banned books, prosecution
proved the best, and possibly
cheapest, advertisement). But
since the police incident one
art-dealer has been diverted by
the curiously hangdog ap-
proach of some Lautrec buyers
—slinking in, like school-
boys into a bookshop after a
copy of Rabelais.
ijt
“Uncle”: She wanted a
radio-set on t.p., and was trying
hard, but not very successfully,
to convince me that she was a
good credit-risk. At last came
the bright idea: “I know what,
Mister, You only gotta ring
the people acrost the street
where I got me last wireless.
When they come and took it
back there wasn’t a scratch
on it.”
“G.” When, some months ago, I
learned from the “Births” column of our
local paper that a female child had been
for ever saddled with the Christian name
of Linear I thought my collection of
baptismal freakishness complete. But no.
Last week a brace of parents, intent on
keeping abreast of the times, bestowed
upon their newest daughter the label
Radar. Am now awaiting, with interest
I’m sure will stay the distance, the
arrival next year of her little brother.
It’s pounds to peanuts he’ll be Thomas
Vincent —TV for short.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eve”: Ripping into the bookshop,
he cried, “I want that magazine in the
window! It’s got a feature article, ‘How
To Stop Working,’ ” The shopman
thought hard, then beamed: “You read
it wrongly, sir. It’s not ‘How to Stop
Working; it’s ‘How To Stop Worrying’.”
Deflated but unconquered, the customer
growled, “Well, same thing, isn’t it?”
❖ ❖ ♦>
54 Young-street
AT the top of Farrer-place, in Sydney,
like a mixed filling between the
sandwich-loaves of O’Brien House and
Grazcos, stand three old houses, built as
gentlemen’s residences by J. C. Raphael
(pronounced “Rayfl”), a speculator of the
’sixties and ’seventies. No. 48 is dated
1877, No. 50 bears the name Longueville
Chambers, No. 54 (No. 52 being its other
front-door) sports on its cornice the
legend “1866 J. C. Raphael.” As this is
being written the demolishers are pulling
them down.
All are of sandstone, but only No. 54
remains in its original natural unpainted
or unplastered state. As the oldest of
the three, it is also fittingly—
the most dilapidated. The front iron-
railings, together with the two gates, went
long since, so did the wicket at the foot
of the stairs ; a large sandstone sea-shell
which teetered above the street was
“ That's me when I Was twenty-one."
removed for safety; a tobacco-kiosk
(now disused) occupies one corner of the
veranda —yet some traces of ancient
splendor survive: the wide spiral stair-
case with its cedar balustrade ; the Italian
etched glass of the front-door, the solid
flooring, the large fireplaces not placed
in the dead centre of the chimneys, black-
battened ceilings, the huge basement kit-
chen, the substantial service-lift, the barn
and stables at the rear, the large well.
All three houses, together with other
property adjacent, occupy part of the site
of old Government House. When they
were built the triangle of streets which
they assisted to form was named, after
their owner, Raphael-place; on the
erection of the Department of Agricul-
ture’s offices during the ’twenties of this
century Raphael got transferred to the
lane beside the Carlton Club Hotel and
the great wheat-breeder was appropriately
honored in his stead.
At one time No. 54 Young-street served
as Government offices, and the N.S.W.
coat-of-arms still graces the transom over
the main door. Now 54, 50 and 48 are to
fall under the demolisher’s hammer and
a block of business dens, with luxurious
flats above, is to arise in their place. So
history yields to “progress.”
The story of No. 54 is obscure. When,
in the days of the Japanese scare, I be-
came tenant of the upper flat, on the
second-floor, I found it already occupied
by a lady-ghost who sobbed on my
pillow, and she was soon visited by a
stern old gentleman who seemed to hate
her. It was some time before I became
socially acceptable to either.
Later I learned from the ancient barber
on the ground-floor, who used to spend
a pleasurable hour lecturing while he
carefully measured and lopped each
several hair of my head, that an elderly
miser had kept a “ladybird” up there,
until he caught her signalling by flashlight
from a window to her young lover that
the way was clear. She was ignominiously
expelled.
So all at once I had the tale complete.
Strangely enough, only after an absence
on my part was there any subsequent
objection to my presence, and when I
came to leave the flat for good I received
a flattering testimonial in the form of
certain manifest objections to my de-
parture. What better reference can my
next landlord —if any—require?
The flat could boast notable predeces-
sors to myself: Douglas Dundas the
artist, Godfrey Blunden the novelist. I
like to think that Blunden, friend of so
many of my own friends, began his
remarkable career at 54 Young-street. It
has since, as before, known many dis-
tinguished guests and visitors. Hugh
McCrae slept there rather more than
once —I can show the bed. Peter Hope-
good, too, at another time, and heard
the ghostly footsteps in daylight. Norman
Lindsay came to lunch, discoursed
animatedly and delightfully for two
hours, and left saying how much he had
enjoyed himself, because I was “such a
good conversationalist.”
When I doubled my number it became
possible to gather together people of liter-
ary taste or talent and to welcome tran-
sients from other Sates or overseas. We
well remember the pleasure of introduc-
ing Dr. Morris Miller to many of the
characters in his famous fantasy, Aus-
tralian Literature, whom he had never
met outside that work.
There were other callers —one who, in
lieu of rapping with a florin on the front
glass—only a florin would do; other
coins rang thin—used to fire a pea-rifle
at an upper window, once nearly pepper-
ing the inhabitant; aspiring poets with
long manuscrips to read aloud (usually
on public holidays); artists’ models in
search of employment; fire from heaven
(the lead and slate roof caught alight,
and the bulkiest fireman in Sydney got
stuck in the manhole); and the rain—the
jolly old rain! —which entered at unex-
pected points and could be kept out
nohow, the craft of the slater being vir-
tually dead. In the end one became
resigned to the merry purl and trilling
of the waterfall that coursed down the
outer wall, consoled with the thought that
it fell on the just and the unjust alike—
the tenant above and the owner below.
Irony intruded when the water-supply
was at the same time mysteriously inter-
mitted, Local sages solemnly opined
that the cause was the rust in the pipes.
This extraordinary rust could tell the
time and kept regular hours every Sun-
day ; then, when the forty-hour working-
week was imposed, every Saturday. It
unfailingly failed. At least we were able
to foresee and prepare for the demon-
strations of its canniness. But naturally
we suspected a slight diversion on the
lower levels.
From the back windows one looked
down on the little courtyard and Godfrey
Miller’s keep (his studio in the barn) ;
across Phiilip-street to the castellated mass
of the Astor. Views from the front
windows, down Farrer-place, when
shown to visitors among travel snapshots,
were variously pronounced' to be of
Algiers, Marseilles, Bombay. And there
is something Mediterranean, even Orien-
tal, in the central garden-plot with its
palms, the minaret of the Lands Depart-
ment (in spite of its tell-tale if not tell-
time clock), the odd geometric shapes of
the buildings frantically converging on
Farrer-place from Bent, O’Connell,
Spring, Young and Loftus streets.
At length came the house-cooling.
Almost the last human sound heard
within the walls was the notes of “Cherie”
appropriately and vigorously rendered by
one of the six jolly removalists in return
for the afternoon’s hospitality.
One misses the outlook; the pigeons
on the roof aloof; also the public ser-
vants each day scurrying to nine-o’clock
service. Nor shall one be able in future
to brag of the site; “Governor Bligh
almost slept here —if only under the
bed.”
R. G. Howarth.
SAD CONFESSION
Tve often watched young Lewis Hoad
Slam down a scorching, sizzling ace;
A Rosewall backhand drive which
flowed
So effortlessly, with such grace —-
Then come away, convinced that skill
Is easier picked-up than I thought . . .
My drives and serves and smashes still
Go everywhere but in the court.
The Von I followed round a lot.
And watched his driving off the tee:
Can’t understand the length he got.
He used so little energy.
It’s got me beat ... I hit like hell;
My muscles, too, I think are bigger
Than the Van’s. But, truth to tell.
Whenever I drive off they snigger.
My scrutiny’s been extra keen
Whenever Gene Kelly’s danced.
I’ve aimed to copy his routine
When at a hop I’ve up and pranced.
The facile way he flings a hoof
Looks so dead simple . . . yet perplexed
I still get, and I feel a goof —
I can’t pick what step she’ll do next!
When Danny Kaye, his eye a-gleam.
Speaks to a crowd or to a gal
I’ve noticed how he makes it seem
So easy and so natural.
I say, “Well, I can do that, too;
I’m well-equipped for such demands’’ —
/ find I don’t know what to do
( It’s so damned awkward) with my
hands!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Two additions to the staff of Sydney
University’s School of Physics make the
group one of the most powerful teams
of young theoretical nuclear physicists
anywhere. Dr. S. T. Butler (turns 28
this week) has been rising rapidly since
a science-scholarship to Adelaide Uni-
versity triggered him off in 1941. At 25,
already buttressed with degrees from
Adelaide, he gathered his Ph.D. at
Birmingham University (Eng.). That
same year he was offered a research-
post at Cornell University (U.S.A.), and
in 1953 became Senior Research Fellow
at Canberra’s National University. Now
Reader in Sydney’s School of Physics.
Dr. J. W. Gardner joins Butler in
Messel’s show from the Canadian Atomic
Energy Establishment —Senior Research
Fellow. He’s old-townies with the
bearded boss, having studied with Messel
in 1950-51 at Dublin University. Lon-
don University trained him; with the
R.A.F. filled-in the war period.
• •
The touch of quiet competence in this
Coventry-presented phiz is handy in the
new job of Louis King—secretary and
personal confidant to Premier Playford.
King, who for the past six years has
secretaried with the South Australian
Minister for Agriculture, was in the
KING—COMPETENT CONFIDANT
Agent-General’s London office in Lon-
don during the war years, with extra-
official duties as an air-raid warden in
Ealing. Keen on yachting in earlier days,
at 50 he settles for the back-garden.
• •
Doctorate of Philosophy from Sydney
University to Frederick William Booker.
The rapid development of the Singleton-
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) open-cut coal-
deposits was mainly in his hands.
• #.
“J.F.”: Saw in a country paper that Fred
Chaffey, 73, of Bong Bong-road, Mittagong
(N.S.W.), had passed on. When I knew him
his address was “The Farm” —the Child Wel-
fare Department’s farm at Yanco, in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Fred was
farm-foreman, or manager; his authority on
matters concerning horses, cows, pigs, seemed
absolute. He came to the M.I.A. from Tam-
worth, whereabouts there’s quite a clan of Chaf-
feys. Fred Chaffey was on most of the local
bodies —to give a rough idea, president Yanco P.
and C., 25 years; Leeton Hospital Board; Agri-
cultural Society, 32 years; president and vice-
president of the same —and was for some years
president of the N.S.W. Pig-breeders’ Associa-
tion; man of character and ability.
To generations of boys at Y.A.H.S. Fred
Chaffey from “The Farm” was a personality,
almost an institution. My own memory of
him is vivid enough. An immense, hale man,
driving a spanking horse over from the Farm,
a black dog curled at the bottom of the sulky:
a face the color of the red earth, and a stiff
grey moustache, neat and sharp, like an out-
line of a tent against the sunset, and a pair of
shrewd eyes. My main impression of him is
his gusto, an enthusiasm and vitality that made
him a little larger than life-size. His disappoint-
ment when a Farm cow missed a first-prize at
the Leeton Show was so acute that he couldn’t
resist voicing his strong disapproval, before an
admiring audience of boys; yet, with no incon-
gruity, he could immediately assume the mantle
of authority, of a livestock judge, himself.
There’s another side, too. The Welfare Farm
was for boys who, for one reason or another,
had been declared “neglected” or “uncon-
trollable”: there were also some State wards,
sent there to get practical training for life on
the land. The disciplinary side of the Farm
was no concern of Fred Chaffey’s—his was the
farm itself. In the A.I.F. I met quite a few
former “uncontrollables,” decent chaps who
told me that the practical training they received
under Fred Chaffey changed their lives. Giving,
as one of them put it, the self-confidence that
comes from knowing you can do a job better
than most men. And after that, an entirely
new direction.
Sulman Medal winner for 1939 (Manly
surf-pavilion), Eric Andrew became pre-
sident of the N.S.W. Chapter of the Insti-
tute of Architects two years ago. Before
gunning in the 2nd A.1.F., transferring
to the Engineers, taking charge of a
large ’drome at Kedah (Malaya) and
after the debacle, of all defence-works
from Charters Towers south to the
Queensland border, Andrew had six
years eyeing architecture on the Contin-
ent and in the U.S. Now partnered by his
wife in practice in Sydney, he’s off on
another tour, world-wide this time, with
an eye to things new in architecture;
partnered by his wife,
• •
“A. 8.”: A tidy piece of work during
the floods last year earned recognition for
Chris Byrne, post-office linesman at
Leeton (N.S.W.); the British Empire
Medal, at an investiture at Government
House, Sydney, during the Royal visit.
The first issue of “Tele-Corn,” a journal
published for the Australian Telephone
Development Association, recalls the in-
cident. The flooded Murrumbidgee had
cut off communication by road with
Darlington Point, and when a telegraph-
pole was undermined by the rushing
water, and began to list, fouling the
wires, the last link seemed about to go,
Byrne swam—against a 20-knot current
—to the pole, twice, and fixed the wires.
A Sydney “Daily Mirror” photographer
was in Darlington Point at the time, and
when he heard that a man was on top of
a telegraph-pole in the flood-waters he
dashed through the water until he was
close enough to get a picture. It was a
good one, showing the pole submerged
to within a few inches of its crossbar.
“Tele-Corn’" reprints the photograph,
with appropriate comment on the work
of linesmen in such emergencies.
• •
Charles Bell was in the post-office at
Wangaratta (Vic.) when he posted him-
self over to Gallipoli. After the Landing,
and Sinai and France, he joined the War
Service Division in Melbourne. When he
retired the other day he was deputy-
director of War Service Homes, and had
put some 31,000 War 11 Diggers into
houses.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Clinical work in peace and
in war in three continents backgrounds
unassuming Polish woman Dr. C. Alter,
sighted working with the Red Cross
blood-transfusion service in Perth. With
a medical degree from Lwow University
(1931), she served with the Polish Army
in the German invasion, and, with what
was left of it, in Russia when the Nazis
were driving towards Moscow. Then she
went with Polish refugees to Persia, and
on to Rhodesia, where she worked in
camps for displaced Poles from 1944 to
1950, when she crossed to Westralia.
Now registered with the State Medical
Board, she awaits the day when she can
set up her own brass-plate. Her husband,
a fellow-student and medical graduate of
Lwow, has*not been heard of since he
was shoved into a Russian concentration-
camp in 1941. Their only son is work-
ing in a Perth garage, meanwhile study-
ing chemistry in his spare time at Perth
Technical School.
• •
In Australia to start a new life (at 76),
William Sawyer, Boer War veteran and
“Old Contemptible,” who joined the
Coldstream Guards at 17 and served
under three sovereigns—Victoria, Edward
VII and George V. After a holiday with
a married daughter at Tarcowie (S.A.),
he’ll have a shot at his civilian trade —
bricklaying.
• •
VD.R.”; E. C. D. Ringrose is a man
you have to look up to —6ft. 2|in. —
when you pass him lankily descending
the stairs of Queensland University.
His department is External Studies,
which brings the lecture-room by post
to thousands of uni. students in the
Queensland backblocks, the Pacific
Islands and overseas. He runs it with a
geniality, a drive and a drawl that have
won him, inevitably, a nickname of high
order —“Ringy.” Those mail-bag under-
grads., whose bread-winning occupations
range from engine-stoker to schoolie,
from clerk to accountant, with a house-
wife here and there determined to get
more out of life than love and washing-
up, regard him as one of themselves;
he, too, was an external student, and
can today tie to the end of his name the
strong string of 8.A., B.Ed., B.Sc. He is,
however, bachelor by degree only; his
wife and he are keen social,-welfare
workers and together established a model
community-centre in their Brisbane
home-suburb of Bardon. Bora in 1899 at
Herberton (Q.) in the far-northern cop-
per country where they grow ’em long,
he himself taught school before moving-
in to his present post. Professor since
1946, he’s a member of the Queensland.
University Senate.
• • •
Celebrated 50 years as a practising
barrister—and still practising— Bartley
Fahey, one of the best-known of Queens-
land’s legal fraternity. Son of a Collec-
tor of Customs in Rockhampton who was
later M.L.C., Fahey collected his law
degrees from Sydney University, and of
late has specialised in equity and con-
stitutional cases, with a record of having
appeared before every High Court judge
in Australia.
• •
“Gelt”: Gone on in Canberra, Walter
Henry Lucas. He knew every habitable
foot of the Solomons, Papua and adja-
cent islands, having spent most of his
working life thereabouts since he joined
the old Australian New Hebrides Co. in
’93 as supercargo on a little island-trader.
He pioneered the Pacific trading of Burns,
Philp, and was grabbed by Billy Hughes
in 1921 to take over the expropriated
German interests in New Guinea and
settle on them War I Diggers, which
he did with a will. With Judge (later
Sir Hubert) Murray and Atlee Hunt he
was a member of the Royal Commission
formed to investigate amalgamating
Papua with the ex-German portion; he
and Hunt recommended against the
union. Some 26 years back Lucas’s
“passing” was recorded on this page;
I sent a par. down from New Guinea
bringing him to life again. Eighty-five
at the end, he will be remembered by
plantation-owners for his emphatic in-
sistence on the need to safeguard against
coconut pests and the like.
• •
“Uramao”; The Royal Society of New
Zealand has awarded the Hector Medal
to a woman botanist, Mrs. S. Watson
Smith, first woman to receive this award.
Before marriage to an American archae-
ologist, she was botanist at Auckland
Museum. The award was made in recog-
nition of her research into N.Z. pollen,
begun in the Dominion and continued
at her home at Cambridge, Massachu-
setts (U.S.).
• •
Depicted here by Prior are the features
that decorate the fathom-and-a-bit of
rangy Australian comprised in Malcolm
Fraser, the 24-year-old Liberal who gave
Donald McLeod the fight of his life for
the Wannon seat in the Federal elections
—the margin was 17 votes. Fraser is
Riverina-born; his father had a pro-
perty on the Edwards River, not
far from Deniliquin (N.S.W.), be-
fore shifting to Victoria’s Western
District in 1944. The Fraser’s
and their sheep now look after each
other on a reciprocal basis at Nareen,
about 40 miles from Hamilton, where
Malcolm takes time off once a week to
broadcast a news-commentary over the
local radio. Three years at Oxford gave
him polish without inflicting an accent
on him, and he graduated in Arts and
Modern Greats, which is Oxfordese for
a degree in philosophy, politics and
economics. The pol. and ecs. stood him
FRASER—FEDERAL FIGHT
in good stead during his election cam-
paign ; the phil. enables him to take his
narrow defeat in his stride. Fraser is
still set on a political career and intends
sticking to Wannon, but modestly feels
that perhaps Wannon has seen enough
of him in recent months to last it for a
while; he’s at present on a visit to the
Barkly Tableland (Q.). Objects; to in-
crease his knowledge of the outback and
see how they use motor-transport in a
big way for shifting stock.
This has been a year to remember for
Alexander Paterson Murphy, dissected
here by Lambart. It has included presid-
ency of the R.A.C.P., election to Fellow-
ship of the Royal College of Physicians
in London, and, in the recent honors-list,
knighthood. Belonging to a long line
of medicine-men (great-great-gradfather
surgeon to a Black Watch regiment;
great-grandfather Professor of Mid-
wifery at Andersonian University, Glas-
gow; uncle, Shirley Murphy, knighted
MURPHY—MEDICO-KNIGHT
for public-health services to London), Sir
Alexander took his M.C. with the 12th
Battalion in War I, and his M.D. at
Sydney University in 1947. Selected to
form the Department of Medicine in
Queensland University, he was its first
head, and, in 1947, became the univer-
sity’s first Professor of Medicine. In
1950 he presided over the 7th session of
the Australasian Medical Congress.
• • -
One of two medals awarded by the
British Ministry of Housing and Town
Planning for designs for London flats
goes to a New Zealander, Reginald Uren,
a councillor of the Royal Institute of
British Architects. A gold-medallist of
the Worshipful Company of Tylers and
Bricklayers, Uren is a Freeman of the
City of London. The Hornsby (Eng.)
Town Hall won him the Riba bronze
medal; the largest secondary school in
the British Isles (under construction by
London County Council) and the
Southall (Eng.) Town Hall are among
his monuments.
• •
Back on the S.M.’s bench in Perth
after 12 months as Coal Industry Co-
ordinator for Westralia, William John
Wallwork. A burly 51, with steel-blue,
orderly-room eyes, he joined the Westra-
lian public service in 1921. Past appoint-
ments include Clerk of Courts at Fre-
mantle, Resident Magistrate at Broome,
and the important job of deputy-director
of the Farmers’ Debts Adjustment Board,
which the Westralian Government set up
to ease the depression for primary pro-
ducers. He’ll carry on with the chair-
manship of the Collie Coal Tribunal and
the Railways Classification Board.
• •
“Jock”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) is to have
a Goethe Society. Objects are to foster
the study of Goethe’s works and to pro-
mote interest in German literature and
culture. A knowledge of German, how-
ever, is not necessary for membership.
Moving spirit is Dr. Otto Spindler, senior
lecturer in German at Newcastle Univer-
sity College.
• •
Into the Silence;
At 72, in Melbourne, C. W. Lucas, branch-
manager of James Patrick and Co. for 29 years
and associated with Australian shipping for more
than half a century. After 20 years’ service
with the Union Steamship Co., he helped the
late Captain Patrick to establish a new line.
At 91, in Sydney, Very Rev. Dr. Ronald
George Macintyre, embyro lawyer who turned
to the pulpit and became Moderator-General ot
the Presbyterian Church in Australia. Many
an apprehensive overseas visitor will remember
the reassurance given him by sight of the
benevolent figure waiting on the pier—m war
II he was chairman of the committee for recep-
tion of all folk from other parts of the Empire
who sought here a war-time refuge. He was no
stranger to war-work —N.S.W. Director of
Recruiting between 1916-18; C.M.G. and
0.8. E. for it. One-time Professor Emeritus of
St. Andrew’s Theological Hall, he kept in touch
with the lay community through seven years
(from 1927) as managing-director of the Burn-
side Homes. He authored several books.
In Wellington (N.Z.),.at 47, Harry Squires
a household-name in social work there. Earner
a boxer of note in England’s eastern counties,
he ministered in London’s slums before shifting
to New Zealand, where he arrived in time to
help sufferers in the 1931 Napier earthquake.
Served overseas as a padre in War 11.


A MATTER OF TIME


ABORIGINALITIES
ALWAYS thought the cattle-dog was
amongst the most intelligent of tykes
until I heard of Bill Jobson’s. Bill bet
Sam £5O he would ride his horse 80
miles in 10 hours. Bill won easily, and
it’s on record that his dog followed him
for the greater part of the journey before
knocking-up. Had it been cross-country
the mutt’s action would have been
understandable; but the ride was done
in 80 one-mile laps on the local race-
course. If / pulled a stunt like that I’d
expect the kelpie bitch that owns me and
the old brown pony to do about three
laps and then make a bee-line for the
shade of the grandstand, there to ponder
on the imbecilities of her possessions till
they were ready to go home.—“Eurim-
burra.”
* * * m
“Filterpress”; Darned if I could work
it out, till forestry-overseer acquaintance
Fred Peachey gave the clue. Giant
blackbutts and tallowwoods round Nam-
bour (Q.) had been neatly sawn right
through, leaving a stump 10ft. high.
Procedure up this way is to chop part-
"What I like about them — they're labor-saving .”
way through with the axe, then fell by
sawing from the other side, back to the
axe-cut. Fred explained: “You’d never
believe it. That big blow last February
blew hundreds of ’em right out by the
roots. We’re sawing them off to sal-
vage the logs. But the old root-clod is so
heavy, the stump, as soon as we saw
through, just springs back again to the
perpendicular.
* * * *
“Coonooer”: The Sullivan boys, of the
Gundagai (N.S.W.) “Independent”
(B. 16/6/’54), must surely have been large
and fighting Irishmen to take liberties in
print with the sensibilities of their readers.
Tried it only once, when I was the whole
editorial and half the mechanical staff of
a struggling journal in Victoria’s
nor’-west. My opus described, in side-
splitting fashion (or so I thought), the
sad plight of the local fire-brigade which
rushed to a call in all the pride and glory
of its brand-new engine—-the first time it
had left the station —and, despite diligent
and extensive search, couldn’t find the
fire. On publication-morning the fire-
brigade called on me jointly and severally
—and they included some outsize and
belligerent fellows. For a time I was
terror-stricken, for some, who were also
businessmen, made the supreme threat of
withdrawing their ads. Thereafter, with
fires, I stuck strictly to straight reporting.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; Knew an old chap in the
Monaro district (N.S.W.) whose long-
standing reputation as a water-diviner
was suddenly lost. A martyr to rheumat-
ism, he went to Sydney for a course of
electrical treatment. It wasn’t successful,
but thereafter the forked stick in his hand
just wouldn’t work. He always swore
the artificial juice had cancelled-out the
natural electricity he’d “bin bora with.”
“Gulliver”: “Spin” (B. 16/6/’54) errs
on the side of understatement when he
calls double-gees bindy-eyes. The
double-gee is about the size of a small
pea, with Spikes that will go through
almost anything short of metal. And
there’s no need to worry about truck-
tyres spreading them through the nor’-
west; when I was last up that way there
wasn’t an acre of the country without
them. For years I had the job of col-
lecting the annual shipment of South
Australian rams from the ship at Carnar-
von and walking them home; their feet,
soft from a couple of weeks on ship-
board, picked up the double-gees on the
Yankee Town flats east of Carnarvon.
They then lay down, collecting a few
thousand more in their fleeces, which
they distributed along the track on the
journey home. Incidentally, isn’t the
name really “debbeltje”? Always be-
lieved they were of South African origin,
and the Australian term was a corrup-
tion of the Afrikaans word for “devil.”
If so, it couldn’t be more appropriate.
* * * ♦
“N 7 Y”: As one who has killed quite
a few animals for Moslems I can testify
that the rites described by “W.J.W.”
(B. 9/6/’54) differ considerably from
those the ’Ghans observed in W.Q. in
the days of camel-teams. Once, during
floods on the Georgina, a couple of
’Ghans were out of meat; and I wasn’t
keen on killing for them. But as water-
hens were there in thousands, I agreed
to work a mob of the birds towards
where Fatter Singh was crouched be-
hind a patch of lignum. He fired into
the mob, leaving several kicking and
squarking on the ground. Singh dropped
his gun and ran to them. Those which
were still kicking when he reached them,
and which bled when he cut off their
heads, were fit to eat; those dead when
he got to them he deemed unclean. And,
anyway, I’ve known many a hungry
’Ghan eat “unclean” meat when there
wasn’t another of his religion around to
observe his impiety.
“Bellfield”: Australian authorities
can’t very well object to animals being
slaughtered according to Moslem rites,
since the method of killing described by
“W.J.W.” is almost identical with that
used in the preparation of kosher-meat,
and rabbis have carried out their ancient
rituals at the Sydney abattoirs for years.
The meat for Indian seamen on certain
shipping-lines has also for years been
prepared at the abattoirs. Whether the
colored men are Moslems or of some
other sect I don’t know, but they will
have nothing but young rams, and the
killing and dressing must be done by
the member of the crew they nominate.
* * * *
“Derf Reltuc”; Why all this mech-
anical stuff over stopping a radiator leak
(B. 23/6/’54)? On a trip from Sydney
to Bathurst (N.S.W.) I noticed steam
erupting from the radiator-spout of my
old 1929 tourer, and found a leak in the
radiator. The time being 3 a.m., there
didn’t seem to be much we could do about
it, until my friend, a staunch gum-chewer,
suggested we might try some of his jaw
by-product on the hole. He gave me a
packet of gum and we chewed like a brace
of cows for some minutes, then stuffed
in the result. I topped-off the radiator
with water seeping from a near-by rock-
face and away we went. I intended to
replace the gum with solder at the first
opportunity, but, investigating the
“repairs,” I found that the gum had
hardened, cement-like. It was still there
when I sold the old bus about a year
later.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Edx”: Years ago the Government
dam near Malcolm (W.A.) was stocked
with freshwater fish whose descendants
seem to be able to survive droughts of
up to six years, and the mystery of the
reappearing fish, which reach a foot
long by winter after the autumn rain, is
completely baffling. A look at the few
inches of thick, opaque, poisonous, warm
concentrate lying in the bottom of the
dam for weeks before the refill, and you
might almost think any fish-life would
have a better chance of survival in the
fresh air. As in “Bass’s” case (B.
16/6/’54), this dam is not connected in
any way with either artesian or surface
rivers; waterspouts are unknown; it
has never rained fish thereabouts, and
no one comes round every year re-
stocking.
* * ♦ «
“Emjai”: In the small Victorian min-
ing-town where I was born the dentist
came once a month, complete with bell-
topper, black-beetle coat, trimmed black
beard, and in a cab, all of which denoted
class. He operated in the bar-parlor
between drinks, and was reckoned to do
a good job with extractions if you got
him early. I got him late, and on a
Saturday of all days for a kid to get
teeth pulled; but orders were that those
tusks had to be dealt with. He was just
swaying into the cab when I panted along.
He swayed out again, dumped me on a
seat. Then: “Head back! Mouth open! ”
A bit of strong-arm stuff, and he tossed
me two gory eye-teeth, swayed back into
the cab, and was off. The barmaid cleaned
me up. The alternative was “Doctor”
Vandyke, an old hatter-fossicker who
camped in a humpy in the ironbark forest
over Growler’s Hill. He had no name-
plate ; whence he came or what his quali-
fications nobody knew, but he had a kit
of sorts and would pull a digger’s tooth
for a bob. An occasional venturesome
kid took an aching tooth to the mystery-
man, mainly to boast that he had entered
the den, and confirmed that the lower
strata of his long grey beard was plaited
into a watch-chain. By and large, how-
ever, the dropped brick or slammed door,
with string attached, was our quite
effective fang-farrier.
* ♦ * ♦
“Kelms”: A man fishing off a Fre-
mantle beach caught a fish which
sported rainbow hues, flapped butterfly-
wings and walked around the bottom
of a pail of water in which it was placed.
The Museum identified it as a red-gurn-
ard. The wings, which appear to have
several shades of green and blue, are
useless for flying, but they help to balance
the fish as it walks along the ocean floor.
The colors fade quickly when the fish
dies.
“ Tur-r-nips , penny each! Too busy to stop , missus!”
MULLABINDA
A fig-tree, a falling woolshed, a filled-in well:
The acute corners tof one man’s figure of hell . . .
When the tree was young and the well deep and the shed
Mullabinda, these three and Campbell’s sheep
Were Campbell’s pride—before this northern sweep
Of channelling shallows marked the Queensland-side;
Before a death speared and drained the day to dark.
And Campbell, riding home, heard no dog bark.
His broad and glaring mare snorted at the ford
And splashed cold fear into his eyes and beard
With hooves restlessly obedient and ominous.
Upstream, On the highest bank, through the blowing rows
Of wind-break coolibahs, the cypress-pine
Mullabinda, slabbed between the shine
And pillared strength of bloodwood, rose a violence,
A smokeless shock of fortress stormed by silence.
He heeled the mare to the gallop in his heart.
“Keep clear of the trees, close to the house. At night
Bar the door and open to no stranger,”
He had said, then kissed away the rape of danger
In her eyes, and (gently), “Take the gun to the well
And when you water the fig.” A voice replied, “I will” . . •
Inside the coolibahs the broad mare shied,
And a wind struck through and broke down Campbell’s
pride.
“I found my wife murdered at the well,
The boy with a bucket in his hand and a spear
In his back beside the fig, the girl on a chair
In the house, clubbed like a little animal.
I beg your Excellency’s kind permission to kill.
I remain your Excellency’s humble servant —Campbell.”
The graves were heaped, and the special licence came,
And Mullabinda Campbell rode after game.
The target-circles 'of black breasts, glistening, hung
Thick-nipple-centred over the billabong.
And paddling and playing in pools of water and sun
The piccaninnies turned plump bellies to the gun,
Teasing the tiny apex of the steely sight . . . •
The legends ricochetted with each report;
Till stone thoughts filled the well of his heart, and age
Made a crumbling woolshed of his slab-hard rage.
Time grooved him like the bloodwood; but deep In the dried
And channelled country of his being where pride
Once flooded to the full, whispered and grew the fig-tree,
Fruitless, but a wild, green and rooted memory,
Growing on, long after the vengeful spear
Thumping his shoulders out of the quiet air,
Acquitted him of hate, and of tree, shed, well——
Mullabinda Campbell’s estimate of hell.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


AS the daddy of all wide-street towns
I’ll back Wycheproof, on the edge
of the Victorian Mallee. As well as road-
traffic, the main street accommodates
the main railway-line from Melbourne.
On a clear day you can recognise a friend
on the other side, but when the Mallee
dust gets on the move you don’t even
know there is another side. The most
infuriating thing about the set-up to the
train-traveller is that on a blazing, dusty
day he’s carted smartly past the pub at
which he’s due to stay, and dumped at the
station about three-quarters of a mile on.
“Did anyone recommend you?”
Still, the trudge back, with a suitcase in
each hand, does wonders for the thirst;
that is, if anything’s needed to improve
the thirst in those parts. —“Mingari.”
* * * ♦
“Nonnel”: Mac, whose habit it is to
alternate shearing sessions with a pro-
longed bout on the turps, blew into the
pub and was introduced by Bung to a
couple of strangers. “Here’s Old Mac,
fellers. He goes out to shear the sheep,
and then I shear him!” “He’s right at
that, too,” put in Mac. “Well, fill ’em
up, mate! You haven’t even got the
belly-wool orf me —yet!”
* * * Hf
“Salmon Gums”: Fraser’s Mine, at
Southern Cross (W.A.), has yielded a
crushing which went close on 30oz. to
the ton—nearly twice as rich as the patch
that sent the Hill 50 shares up sky-high
last year, and has kept them up since.
There’s a story behind the finding of
Fraser’s, A railway-contractor in the
1880’s gave that game up to go pros-
pecting, and after a few unsuccessful
attempts he and a mate asked a Govern-
ment surveyor if he could suggest a
likely area. The surveyor pointed to the
Southern Cross constellation and told
them that in a line slightly east of it
there was a locality where natives had
told him there was gold. They found the
area, and the gold, and pegged-out a
claim which they called the Southern
Cross. Dry weather and the loss of a
horse forced them back to a previous
camp, where another prospector, Fraser,
told them of a reported find at Mount
Jackson. In return, they told him of
their Southern Cross claim, and then
headed for Mount Jackson. Fraser made
for Southern Cross, pegged claims next to
theirs, and struck the main lode. But he
didn’t get anything like 30oz. dirt.
“Kay Dee”: Can’t agree with the find-
ing of “Emjai” (B. 26/5/’54) that around
Melbourne thrushes are becoming rare
because they and their nests are easy
prey, while the more cunning blackbirds
are flourishing. The thrushes are almost
as plentiful as the blackbirds in Caul-
field. Singing in full spate, too, just now.
In the Botanical Gardens I’ve seen them,
head on one side, listening for worm-
movements under the lawns. Blackbirds,
which systematically work my vines
searching out caterpillars of the wan-
derer butterfly, outnumber the thrushes
for a good reason: they rear three broods
each season to the thrush’s one.
* y * * *
“Lemuel G.”: “Banjo” Paterson’s
partner had obviously never studied the
finer points of pig-droving, nor had
he delved deep into porcine philosophy
(B. 16/6/’54), the whole secret of which
was once summed-up for me by an
ancient I encountered in great trouble
with a mob of the grunting pests.
“Tricky?” he said. “They’re like wimmen
—won’t lead an’ won’t drive, but belt
the daylights out of ’em and they’ll foller
yer!” (Note: Experiments to this end
have not been carried out on Mrs. L. G.,
so no guarantee can be given.)
* * # *
“H.C.8.”: The expression “flash”
hasn’t changed its meaning (B. 2/6/’54);
it had taken a backward somersault and
is now on its feet again. English writers
have used the adjective with its modem
meaning for generations. Wasn’t the
offensive character in Tom Brown’s
Schooldays called Flashman? Thomas
Hughes wrote that in 1856. My mother,
who landed in Australia as a young Eng-
lish matron, told us of her horror when a
chap, kidding to five-year-old big sister,
said: “My word, you do look flash in
that dress! ” Mum never did like our use
of the word; she always thought
“swanky” sounded nicer (“posh” had yet
to be born). Par.-writer “Cleaner” here
quoted “Banjo” Paterson as having used
“flash” in the modem manner. Henry
Lawson finished a story with the
word, used in the same sense.
Recall the grouchy shearerVcook
and Ms peevish little dog that the
shearers finally shore, leaving
tufts of hair as decorations? When
the dog’s owner cooled down he
complained that he wouldn’t have
minded if it wasn’t that, when he
went to town people would tMnk
him “flash.”
‘B. A. Ker”: Understandable that
freezing and thawing would have a detri-
mental effect on “green” concrete
(“Wealth From The Snowy” article, B.
19/5/’54). Those unholy twins can do
shocking things to “green” brickwork,
although the action is rather different.
When bricks are laid in frigid tempera-
tures the mortar freezes before the suc-
tion of the brick has had time to begin
drying the joint. 5 While the mortar
remains frozen no harm is done, but the
sun can shine on one side of a wall
only; consequently, when the thaw
comes, joints on the sunny side shrink
slightly, then revert to the soft con-
sistency of the mortar when it was first
spread, while on the shaded side the
joints remain solid and unyielding,
Result; The wail settles down on the
soft mortar, pressing it out and steadily
growing farther and farther out of
plumb until the structure collapses or
has to be pulled down and built again,
Bracing with stout timber is the only
preventive. Fortunately, few places in
Australia suffer weather bitter enough to
cause such hazards, but in England,
parts of U.S.A., Canada, etc., frost is an
enemy the builder can’t afford to take
cheaply.
DIAMANTINA DITTY
The day we left to lift the mob
From Diamantina Lakes
(Jackie and Tommy, me and Bob;
And Chailie doing the cooking job)
The early light that wakes
Galahs along the Western Creek,
Lay grey across the plain.
Jingle of hobble-chain,
Among the snorting horses, and the creak
And groan of packsaddles, with tightened girth,
Seemingly whispered “On the road again.”
WeTl pack old Nugget this trip—all he’s
worth —
I’m glad old Nelson’s gone, he was no loss—
I U try that new horse Spider,” said the boss,
Come on, let’s go, we’ve been packin’ a week.”
Quickly he gathered up the reins
And swung his leg across:
But Nugget bolted with the swags, ; o
And tore their covers into rags,
And Spider threw the boss.
And those are just some of the cussed pains
The poor old drover takes;
But spite of all the fuss
(T°mmy and Jackie, me and Bob;
And Charlie doing the cooking job)
We got away to lift the mob
From Diamantina Lakes.
N.S.W.
Hui TE RANGIRA.
SARTORIAL TILT
"pERHAPS it was the purring approach
of the mercer that put me in a
contentious mood —that, and the confident
manner in which, after he had wound
the tie around his finger, he pronounced
that blue-and-grey would go perfectly
with my coloring.
“I am aware,” I said, “that the kaleido-
scopic effect produced by me is not a
violent one, but I doubt whether I am
quite as drab as all that.”
“I wasn’t referring to your hair,” he
said. “You would find it difficult to get
a tie to tone in perfectly with ginger going
grey, I was thinking of your eyes—they’re
a faded sort of blue.”
“They may, of course, have changed
overnight by some freak of nature,” I
replied, “but yesterday they happened to
be a light-brown, as they have been, so I
understand, from my birth.”
“Then I must be color-blind!” he said
bitterly,
“Well,” I said, pleasantly, “having
wrung from you that candid admission of
optical defect, let us proceed. Expound
further why a drab blue-and-grey
tie would suit me when all my
personality calls for something less
austere. Maybe you hold the view
that it may provide a pleasing con-
trast with my socks” —and I hoisted my
strides a few inches.
He gazed, stricken, at the ox-blood and
puce diamond-checked pair thus disclosed.
When he recovered he said grimly:
“You’ve got a taste like the bottom of a
birdcage!”
“If you imagine,” I went on evenly,
“that idle flattery is going to cajole me
into the frame of mind whereby I shall
be susceptible to the purchase of a warby,
slop-made fag-end of material on which
you are probably making up to four-
hundred per cent, profit you are mis”
He went livid at that. “Slop-made be
damned!” he barked. “Let me tell you
that all these ties are craftsman-tailored! ”
“Craftsman bunk! ” I replied, “This one
certainly looks as if it has been cut out
with a gapped cleaver by a myopic butcher
with St. Vitus’ Dance, and sewn together
with a bag-needle. I’ll have a look at
that one over there with the orange
squares on a pink background.”
“Wouldn’t it be better if you listened
for it instead?” he asked razorily.
I ignored the remark, as I could well
“Open up a tin of sardines and we'll have lunch."
afford to, for I possess the unusual gift,
as my wife has so often assured me, of
being able to hear with perfect clarity
those things I want to hear, and claiming
aural imperfection for items for which a
keen receptivity might prove an embar-
rassment.
“Your available selection of collar-
embellishments,” I observed, “appears to
be even more miserable than their ven-
dor. What about that cadmium-yellow
with the khaki half-moons?”
“It would clash,” he returned judicially,
“with the off-white tapes of your under-
pants —a style, incidentally, that was old-
fashioned when wax-matches, antimacas-
sars and self-igniting celluloid collars
were the rage. I’d suggest an olf-black
fringed tie with off-black concentric
circles —they’d match the ones under your
eyes,”
“A suggestion worthy of a bird-brain,”
I replied. “Once I cease going to late
parties and the circles disappear, as I’ve
been assured by my dentist they will, the
tie would be in revolting contrast to my
alabastar skin. What about something in
the way of bows?”
“Your walrus mo, would be,” he said
“though you could hack the ends of it off.
The disadvantage in that, however, is that
it would display to the world a greater
section of your face. How about this
one with a picture of Rita Hayworth on
it?”
“I’d have to look at her upside down
while I was wearing it,” I protested. “I
might get a rush of blood to the brain.”
“Self-flattery in any form,” he observed
icily, “is repugnant to me. What about
this one with all the bars across it? It
could be a constant reminder to you,
perhaps, of some place where you have
spent a vacation at some time or other.”
“Now listen,” I gritted. “I came in here
to get a tie. If you haven’t anything
worth-while to show me”
“It isn’t a question of that,” he inter-
rupted rudely. “It’s just that even the
most expensive, striking tie would be
utterly wasted while you insist on wear-
ing a thing like that” —and he contemptu-
ously indicated my topcoat.
“What’s wrong with it?” I hotly de-
fended. “It has done me sterling service
for years and there’s a lot of warmth and
wear left in it yet!”
He made a vain attempt to curl his lip,
such as is claimed possible by the roman-
tic novelists, as he swept a hand over the
coat. “Punch’s town style,” he said,
“with set-in sleeves —they were quite smart
when the Prince of Wales was out here.
Besides, it makes you look narrow-
chested, which you’re not.”
“That,” I said, mollified, “is the most
sensible thing you’ve said since I came in
your shop.”
“Whereas,” he went on, “a Raglan
style would slim you down and empha-
sise the square shoulders you have.”
By that time he had prised off the old
topcoat and was holding out a Raglan
gabardine for me to try on.
“There! ” he said. “A perfect fit. Why,
you only need a Homburg and you could
almost be mistaken for Anthony Eden.
And you’d never get better value any-
where than that —best-quality gab., ultra-
smart cut, beautifully lined, reversible
cuffs, guaranteed shrinkless, fadeless and
unfrayable, fireproof, absolutely impervi-
ous to anything up to cloudbursts and
typhoons, snappy”
I bought it. Next time I go to the
mercer’s for a damn’ tie I’ll grab the
first one I see, slam down the dough and
beat it.
BO.


Rulh uiiJw
One of the pleasures I have derived from publishing
this column has been in the receipt of letters from
many people discussing the thoughts I. have sought to
convey.
Some have remarked on the fact that Faith and
Courage have been my constant watchwords in all that
pertains to Australia’s future.
May I tell you why I refer to them so frequently.
They arc basic in any worthwhile approach to the
Australian task. They are basic in my own philosophy.
I believe in God, in the living world of God’s
creation, in the will of most people to make this a
better world. I have faith in my fellow men, knowing
that all of us have our weaknesses and all of us our
strengths.
And, like all who love Australia, I want to see
that will translated into action for the advancement
of four country, with its trusteeship and British back-
ground. It needs so little kindling to turn good
intention into better deed.
We want to see the character of young Australians
moulded not on the mere enjoyments of living in a
material Paradise, but portrayed in those spiritual
qualities without which the material has neither
enjoyment nor meaning.
My vision of Australians is of a people daring to
live, and daring to hope and believe ... a people lively
to the truth that labour can be bought, but loyalty and
devotion to one’s country can never be purchased or
hired.
Believing in Eternal Justice, I am convinced that
only by our own creative effort shall we correspond
to the opportunities that have been given to us.
Were events not moving so swiftly in the world,
we still would have a grave responsibility to develop
Australia. In the context of modern life it becomes
a tremendous challenge.
How else can we meet that challenge than by Faith
and Courage? Where else but from the spiritual
springs can we draw the strength to make and sustain
the effort?
— /V,
SPECIAL
TOLLEY’S
TST
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
w
a
I
74
hqH*
505
(ICOJI
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:'
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
«
TST.3a.I2
Busineśs.Roĺleuy.ete.
A Good Year
TODAY is the close of financial
year 1953-54, and in most
respects it should have been the
busiest 12 months Australia has
ever known. In addition to that
it has been a period of
unexampled post-war stability.
The basic wage has shown only
a minute increase over the year,
and most prices have been steady.
Some manufacturers’ costs have
been reduced as a result of better
man-hour production in industry
and through increased competi-
tion ; while some imported goods
have dropped in price, notably
petrol, which is not subject to
such heavy tanker charges as
hitherto.
Wool prices have been very
much the same as last season’s,
and the clip will probably fetch
around the same figure. The
income from wheat is down,
partly because of lower prices,
partly because of smaller exports.
Flour shipments have also been
affected. Metals have been
weaker. But, altogether, the
value of Australia’s merchandise
exports for the 10 months to
April 30 held almost level with
the same period of 1952-53 at
£7Ol million. It was a growth
from £424 million to £542 million
in imports that brought about a
drop in our export surplus
(excluding bullion and specie)
from £277 million to £159
million.
Away from the rural areas and
the ports of shipment and arrival,
the economy has been exception-
ally busy. Australian factories
have been making more goods
than ever before, and the average
output from each worker has
never been greater. This increase
in worker-output has been one
of the most welcome achieve-
ments in industry. It would seem
to imply that industry, through
increased mechanisation and
general efficiency, has overtaken
the gap caused by the bringing-
in of the 40-hour week. But
Australia is still tailing the older
manufacturing countries in most
indexes of man-hour production,
and the 40-hour week remains
an insuperable obstacle to the
efficient running of most
transport systems.
Within the controls imposed by
tariffs and import-restrictions
there have been few casualties
so far among Australian manu-
facturers. Competition from
imports has been most severe in
the textile trades and in paper-
manufactures. It has generally
been considered that Australian
industries would meet stiffer
competition from imports later
in 1954; already there is some
talk of tightening-up on import-
licensing, not so much because
of the effect of competition on
local industry as by reason of
the fall in wheat export-values
and the effect of several other
factors upon London funds.
Though competition from
imports late in 1954 may not be
so severe as anticipated two or
three months ago, other
influences may stop the continued
expansion of Australian manu-
facturing at the fast pace of the
past 12 months. One difficulty is
the lack of a reserve of skilled
labor; another is the growing
scarcity of some raw materials.
But without any doubt the past
year has been a bumper one for
many companies listed on the
Australian Stock Exchanges, and
those efficient enterprises engaged
in key industries have done well.
The Bulletin has noted several
such concerns from time to time
in these pages, and already some
have come up to expectation
through increases in their interim
dividends. In two or three
months final results should be
known.
The reduction in company
taxation, effective during the past
year (in some cases provision was
made for lower taxes in the
1952-53 accounts) should help
most concerns to show better
earnings as well. It is possible,
in view of the doubts about con-
ditions in the first half of the new
financial term, that some
concerns will be unusually
cautious about distributions to
shareholders, preferring, perhaps,
to carry large sums to reserves.
But a number of companies have
been extremely careful on that
score already, and would be able
to increase their dividends over
those for 1952-53 even if they
distributed only half their net
earnings for 1953-54.
Oil in the West
The oil “showings” in the
drilling - mud from 9789 ft. in
No. 1 Rough Range well of W.A.
Petroleum on June 24 followed
on the previous day’s denial that
there was anything to report.
When the oil “shows” were
announced it was stated that they
had occurred within 12 hours
previously of 2 p.m. (Sydney
time) on Thursday. The
announcement was made on
Sydney Stock Exchange around
3 p.m.
The W.A. Minister for Mines
(L. Kelly) said subsequently
(with reference to the
“stupendous news” and
“tremendous optimism”) that
for several months the strata
passed through had been
extremely hard; “however,
within the past few days intense
interest has been evidenced in
the fact that a fractured horizon
has been encountered, and it is
in this stratum that oil-seepage
has taken place.”
Whether news of this “fractured
horizon” had leaked out before-
hand or not, shares in the Ampol
companies which have a 20 p.c.
interest in W.A. Petroleum
became very active earlier last
week, but kept around 80s. for
several days. After the announce-
ment they leapt to £6 55., but
later came back to £5.
According to Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” Dr. Raggatt, secre-
tary of the Department of
National Development (Can-
berra), said “we consider that
the oil found at the 3600 ft. level
did not originate in the rocks at
that level, but in older formations
at lower depths. This now seems
to be confirmed.”
What Dr. Raggatt is saying
now was not generally acknow-
ledged at the time of the first oil-
strike in December last year.
But, writing in The Bulletin of
December 23, 1953, L. Owen, an
oil - geologist of world - wide
experience, said:
Moreover, the nature of the oil-
a very waxy paraffin-base crude—-in
such an environment and presumably
in strata belonging to the Upper
Permian, indicates that the oil has
migrated a long way from its source
and has suffered selective mxcro-
flltration in the process.
Mr. W. G. Walkley, when asked
by The Bulletin at the time
whether the oil appeared to be
of an inspissated nature, would
make no admissions.
Testing of the new oil “show-
ings” was incomplete when this
issue went to press. News of the
extent and nature of the oil at the
new horizon was awaited with
keen interest. The thickness of
any oil-sands which may be
penetrated and the type of oil in
them may have an important
bearing on the nature of the field.
At the shallower level the oil-
sands showed only between
3605 ft. and 3620 ft. The oil, thick
and waxy, was sealed-off after a
25-hour test, and- deeper drilling
in the same hole was carried on.
As the bit went down the rock-
formation became extremely
hard.
Ampol Exploration, Ltd., has
an issued capital of 8,000,000 ss.
shares, and 70 p.c. of these are
held by Ampol petroleum, Ltd.
The 8,000,000 shares represents
a 20 p.c. interest in the W.A.
venture, and at £5 per Explora-
tion share the WAPET venture
has a market valuation of £2OO
jnillion,
“Ifs” and “Ands”
“P. Mobile”; An ancient
jingle runs: “If ifs and ands were
pots and pans, there’d be no need
for tinkers.” With equal truth
it can be said that if even one of
the golden prophecies periodi-
cally issued by the Department
of National Development be-
comes anything more substantial
that a mirage, Australia will soon
reach the happy position of
exporting, instead of importing,
power-producing material.
Still, there are so many pitfalls
in the path of even the most
efficient searcher after oil and
uranium that —hopeful as we
may be —our optimism must be
tempered by training and curbed
by experience.
A recent victim of the virus
optimus appears to be the
Queensland Acting Minister for
Mines and Immigration who,
over* the air in Brisbane on June
20, envisaged a reserve of 10,000-
miliion cubic feet of petroliferous
gas valued at £l5 million gross
underlying the township of
Roma. This estimate had as its
slender foundation the result of
a 30-minute test in the AAO4
well on Hospital Hill when about
30,000 cubic feet of gas were
released at a pressure of 900 p.s.i.,
qualified by a number of
extremely doubtful “ifs” and
“ands.” The figures quoted
represent, of course, only initial
flow and pressure, and extrapola-
tion even to 24 hours is
dangerous and unjustified.
The fact that such an estimate
should have been broadcast by a
responsible Minister on such
flimsy evidence, and in spite of
previous failures in gas-utilisa-
tion at Roma, is proof of the
unwisdom of following the bad
example set by the dicta of the
Department of National De-
velopment,
Titanium Minerals
Titanium Minerals, Ltd., has
sent shareholders a report: it
has opened negotiations with
other mining interests primarily
concerned with the recovery of
rutile. It hasn’t enough capital
itself to exploit fully its 22,000
acres. From the numerous vary-
ing assays (especially with
regard to tin) that have been
made on behalf of Titanium and
other interests, even an approxi-
mate estimate of the mineral
content of the area appears
difficult.
The company says “it would
appear from the samplings that
the mineral deposits occur in
runs or leads through the area
with divisions of low-grade
ground in between,” and adds
that on “the basis of treatment
of, say, 500,000 cubic yards of
ground p.a., each mile of lead
should give a minimum life of
five years and, as the area covers
a length of about 15 miles, the
extent of the ground to be treated
will be realised.”
Yardage, values and costs have
still to be proven in a mining
sense.
With the company’s accounts
made up to December 31, 1953,
due next month, Metropolitan
Cement £1 shares have slumped
heavily to 2s. 3d. Maybe some-
one’s getting out of them to hop
into uranium or oil “two-
bobbers” ; maybe someone’s
just getting out.


Missing Friend
ALLEN. In Sydney. Letter, parcel
received. Anxious. Wait daily 11-11.30
a.m. Mitchell Library or call. Ring
M 3098. Hair brown. Love, Tricia.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Pine Forests
ONLY a minority of Maori-
landers yet realise that the
most urgent reason for getting
into pulp-and-paper produc-
tion has nothing to do
with dollar-saving or cashing-
in on attractive export prospects
—important as these are —
but is a matter of climate and
growth. More than two-thirds of
N.Z.’s great pine forests were
planted in the ’twenties and are
maturing in the current decade,
such is the effect of mild tempera-
tures, ample rainfall and the
right type of soil. N.Z. is run-
ning into temporary over-supply
of pine ( radiata ) before industry
is ready to deal with it all.
A generation ago, when warn-
ings were given of a timber
famine unless hundreds of
thousands of acres of land then
waste were planted in trees, no
one thought of a possible harvest-
ing problem some day; what
mattered was that trees were
grown in millions by the State
and by private concerns. Look-
ing back, it can be seen that the
planting should have been more
orderly, and, looking forward,
that plantations for the new
industries now being established
will have to be replanted more
carefully.
At the moment what counts
most is felling and milling the
first crop. Production jumped
when N.Z. Forest Products Co’s
Kinleith mills got into running
in the latter part of 1953, and
next year there’ll be another big
lift when the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co. makes it weight felt.
These two cos. will be looking to
the building industry to take a
lot of radiata, and will be ship-
ping all they can sell to Australia
with the output kiln-dried,
chemically treated and carefully
graded. Pulp, commercial paper
and newsprint will be the other
products of the integrated indus-
tries on which Maoriland is
banking to put it in world class
in this field. It’s a toss-up
whether production or marketing
will be the more important when
milling reaches full volume, but
the cos. aren’t waiting for
orders ; they’re out after them.
Dwindling supplies of native
timbers will help pine-millers to
back up their claim, based on
research and limited experience,
that best quality radiata, properly
graded and treated, is equal to
rimu—M.L.’s most-used timber
for housebuilding. Native forests
felled and burned without
thought of the future until a
generation or so ago can’t be
replaced in under a century, so
cutting is being tapered off at
an annual rate of close to 20
million board-feet, to extend the
life of the bush still standing.
The aim is to reduce milling of
indigenous timber to 100 million
board-feet a year, against 300
million today, which will leave
exotics with about five-sixths of
the market—about 500 million
board-feet. This is M.L.’s native
forest-conservation and exotic-
development policy, to which
there is no visible alternative,
although it will be hard on saw-
millers whose output comes
under the axe.
In a little more than 100 years
since the country was colonised,
the area under native forest has
been halved, and only 14 million
acres are now left. Out of this,
6.5 million acres are set aside for
soil-protection, flood-control, or
controlled timber-milling; three
million acres are provisional
State forests ; 2.5 million acres
are other Crown forests, such as
national parks, scenic reserves
and educational endowments;
and the balance of three million
acres uncontrolled by the Crown
is a mere fraction of the acreage
privately owned in the days when
N.Z. was a timber-millers’
paradise.
The big difference between
pine and rimu, or other trees
that once covered much of what
is now dairying- and sheep-
country, is that pine grows three
times as fast and can be harvested
and milled in a continuous 30-
year cycle (so far as anyone can
forecast) for hundreds of years.
It is this rate of growth, nearly
twice as fast as in California, the
home of radiata, that is the
ground for sinking a fortune into
plant, mills and equipment.
Nash and the “Top Eighty”
If there’s one thing that nettles
Maoriland Socialists more than
another —and this in a country
where State benefits are higher
and redistribution of incomes has
gone further than anywhere else
—it’s the thought that anyone
should be allowed to earn more
than the rank-and-file. Pushed to
its logical limit, this would lead to
a flat-rate for everyone, with no
rewards for special skill,
individual talent, administrative
ability or business genius. Every-
one oik a dead level is, appar-
ently, the rabid Socialist’s con-
ception of a paradise on earth,
and variations in income which
have always existed since the
abolition of slavery are some-
thing such a warped mind can’t
understand.
The creed of “soak the rich”
has its leading advocate in
Maoriland in the Labor-Socialist
veteran Walter Nash, who did
his best during 14 years as
Minister of Finance (up to 1949)
to put his spendthrift theories
into practice. After nearly five
years with his followers in the
wilderness, he’s keen to get hold
of the national pursestrings again
and to resume the role of leading
his party into the Socialists’
promised land.
His theme, which he has been
harping on again lately, amounts,
to taking from the “haves” to
give to the “have-nots,” along
with further extravagances like
the free dentures and spectacles
he’s now proposing to add to the
alrady over - inflated social-
security system. And he has been
pointing to the “top eighty”
among N.Z.’s 600,000 taxpayers
as if they were sinners against
society. This group, with average
net incomes of £19,237 yearly,
includes a select six whose
average of £44,333 makes them
the plutocrats of N.Z.
It hasn’t occurred to Mr.
Nash or his crowd that if the
million and a half that goes to
these 80 were shared round
among N.Z.’s army of wage-
earners the rise in pay would be
the princely sum of 6d. a head
weekly, or that several times this
amount could be easily earned if
workers as a class put their hearts
into it. An extra 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
all-round lift in production
would be the quickest and surest
way to improve the lot of the
working-class.
There’s too much seeking of
increased pay without the work
to back it up, while thousands
of jobs are still going begging.
For years workers now have the
upper hand in bargaining, and
the consequences are seen in
costs which come back in prices
and high taxes. Those out to
make the most of their chances
by going to places where big
schemes, like State contracts and
private construction projects, are
in progress, can easily knock out
£2O-£3O weekly, and, if they’re
the thrifty type, bank enough to
build up a fat balance in a short
time. Opportunities for young
men with a bit of go don’t have
to be sought; they’re within
reach of all.
A different aspect is the case of
engineers and others with
specialised training, who find
N.Z. salaries so low that they can
easily double their incomes by
going to Australia or to other
countries where there is better
recognition of such skill. The
most extreme instance of inverted
rewards is on coastal ships, where
cooks have been getting more
than masters. This form of class-
robbery is bound to do a lot of
harm in the long-run.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
LIMITED
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS HELD IN MELBOURNE
ON FRIDAY. JUNE 25. 1954.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C, Y. Syme, Chairman, said :
So far as our Balance Sheet is con-
cerned, the following features call for
comment.
The net value of Premises has again
risen and further increases are antici-
pated for the next two or three years.
We have recently signed a contract for
the erection of a major Wool Store at
West Footscray (where we already have
a small unit), and when completed all
our Victorian wool business will be
handled under one roof, which will be
a considerable improvement on Our pre-
sent position. We will then be equipped
with extensive and modem stores in each
Centre in which we operate. However,
in addition to our Wool Store construc-
tion programme, we are also faced with
substantial outlay on office premises in
Sydney, Melbourne and in Perth, and, in
fact, reconstruction of our Sydney
premises has already commenced.
Through factors over which we have
no control we had to extend our Adelaide
Wool Store at a most unfavorable time,
and even by today’s standards its cost
was extremely high. Consequently it has
been considered wise to provide special
depreciation on this store to reduce the
cost to the basis of current competitive
prices.
The new Stores have also involved
substantial additions to plant and, in
particular, there has been evolved
through qpnsultation between our experts
and the manufacturers a dumping unit
which gives much improved performance
over previous types.
The new capital issue in July of last
year has improved the Company’s
liquidity ratio —the demand for advances,
due to increased working costs and stock
prices, has made it a matter of difficulty
in recent years to maintain this ratio at
a satisfactory figure.
As indicated last year, the loss of
Leases in the Western Division of New
South Wales was provided for in previous
years and has had little effect on this
year’s Balance Sheet.
THE PROFIT AND LOSS
ACCOUNT:
This season’s clip is slightly smaller
than the record one of 1952-53. How-
ever, the total receipts into the Com-
pany’s stores for our financial year, viz.,
453,000 bales, is 8000 bales higher than
for the previous year, and must be
regarded with satisfaction.
You will have observed from the Direc-
tors’ Report that our wool sales for the
financial year were 483,536 bales. This
figure is 60,000 bales higher than our
previous record figure reached in 1952-53,
and is substantially due to the amount
of wool brought forward from the previ-
ous year, exceeding the amount carried
forward at March last by 30,000 bales.
Thus the profit figures before you have
benefited materially at the expense of
the 1954-55 year.
As stated in the Annual Report, we
commenced wool selling in Newcastle in
September last. So far we have received
upwards of 23,000 bales there, and,
although much of this is diverted from
our Sydney stores, there is evidence of
considerable new support being attracted
by this venture.
Stock turnover again increased con-
siderably, sheep sold being up half a
million to 5,700,000; cattle up 30,u00 to
475,000, and pigs up slightly at 130,000.
The, value of land sold increased sub-
stantially to £7,900,000, while Merchan-
dise turnover was slightly higher than
the previous year.
The increases recorded under Manage-
ment expenses are no more than con-
sistent with the increased business done,
and we welcome this evidence of stability
in the price structure.
The redaction in taxation resulting from
last year’s Budget has helped in building
up reserves required to service higher
prices and expansion of business, and we
are hopeful of further reductions in Com-
pany rates in coming Budgets. You will
realise that we have to pay tax on
more than our true profit—no deprecia-
tion being allowed on such assets as Wool
Stores, although obsolescence is a factor
for which we must provide.
COMPANY’S OWN PROPERTIES:
Our stations have -experienced another
year of generally favorable seasonal con-
ditions —all sheep are in excellent con-
dition, and good lambings are antici-
pated, provided further follow-up rains
are received on the New South Wales
properties.
As indicated in previous reports, our
four stations situated in the western
division of New South Wales are now
suffering considerable reductions through
periodic resumptions, which will be com-
pleted early in 1955. Our profit figures
this year benefited to some extent by
proceeds of sale of surplus sheep, and
larger sales are expected to be made in
the current year. These reductions will,
of course, affect our earning power for
the future.
The Privy Council decided that the
wool profits distributed under the. 1948
act are subject to tax, thus reversing the
judgment of the High Court.
PESTS:
The dingo continues to be a serious
problem in Central and Northern Queens-
land, and to assist in its control the
Queensland Government has recently
passed the Barrier Fences Act, 1954, to
provide for the construction and main-
tenance of fences around the main sheep
areas of the State. The length of fence
involved is approximately 3500 miles,
much of which is already in existence —
the balance is programmed for completion
within three years.
After the heavy kill of rabbits by
myxomatosis in 1952-53 they again bred-
up in some districts, but in the later
months of this season the disease again
became helpful.
The blowfly has not been unusually
troublesome.
THE SEASON in NEW SOUTH WALES
opened favorably, but the absence of
autumn rains over central and western
areas indicated that droughts might de-
velop. Rains this month (June) have
given considerable relief, but further falls
are required to assure the position.
In QUEENSLAND the spring was very
dry, and considerable feeding became
necessary. Lambing was a failure in
some central districts. Good rains were
received in January and April, and sheep
areas of the State, with the exception
of the south-east, have fair to good feed.
A good break is still badly required in
the south-east of Queensland and in the
north-east of New South 'Wales.
In VICTORIA conditions generally
have been satisfactory, and in most dis-
tricts are now excellent.
The SOUTH AUSTRALIAN agricultural
areas received splendid rains in April,
and with the follow-up falls since received
the position is good. Conditions in the
pastoral areas outside Goyder’s Line vary
—further rain is required in the north-
east. In the TERRITORY some proper-
ties, particularly to the north and north-
east of Alice Springs, required further
rain.
In WEST AUSTRALIA many pastoral
areas have had a good year and received
heavy rains in April. Districts around
Meekatharra are drought-stricken. The
agricultural areas have had a fairly good
year, and, although the opening rains were
late, conditions are now promising.
STOCK MARKET;
Store sheep prices have been well main-
tained in sympathy with the firm market
for wool, although in some districts dry
conditions have affected sales of both store
sheep and cattle.
Fat stock prices have been generally
satisfactory.
THE WOOL MARKET:
For eight successive seasons strong de-
mand has existed in the Australian wool
market and prices have been on a very
satisfactory basis.
The 1953-54 clip was slightly smaller
than the record clip of the previous
season, and the rates of offering were
speeded up to meet the requirements of
buyers. This accounts for the reduced
carry-forward into the April/June period
in the major centres. We have never
experienced a more stable market right
through a selling season. For a limited
period in January/February, 1954, there
were some minor recessions, but the
market soon recovered, and is conclud-
ing on a strong basis. Average prices
realised for greasy wool for recent sea-
sons compare as under:—
Season.
1949/50 63.35 d. per lb.
1950/51 144.19 d. per lb.
1951/53 73.43 d. per lb.
1953/53 Sl.SOd. per lb.
1953/54 83.16 d. per lb. (11 mths.)
Owing to the smaller clip, the total
realisation this season is expected to be
about £390,000,000, as against the figure
of £405,000,000 obtained in 1952-53.
When the season opened in September
prospects were clouded by fears of a
general recession developing in U.S.A.
The textile trade there has experienced
considerable difficulty, and, for the second
season in succession, American purchases
in Australia were disappointing.
Great Britain was once again the lead-
ing purchaser, although taking rather less
than in the previous season. Her orders
were prudently placed, and came into the
market when orders from other sources
were inclined to wane. Her buying was
strongest in the later months of the
season.
The Continental countries—France,
Belgium, and the German Republic in
particular—furnished very valuable sup-
port. A feature of the season was the
demand from Italy for superfine Merinos.
Direct Russian buying was a force for
the first time for some seasons, but their
purchases were not as large as perusal
of press reports might suggest—exports
of greasy wool to Russia for the nine
months ended March last were some seven
per cent, of the total of such exports.
Their buying was somewhat spasmodic,
and came to an abrupt end in April,
presumably as a result of political de-
velopments. Japanese operations were
reduced, apparently through currency diffi-
culties. That country had a barter
arrangement with South America, and
obtained considerable wool from there.
Australian mills competition revived
after being very quiet in the previous
season. They are again taking about 15
per cent, of production.
There are indications in some clips
that the relatively high prices being paid
for faulty wools have encouraged care-
lessness in breeding and culling, and
amongst buyers this is having an unfor-
tunate influence on the reputation of the
clips concerned.
The steady strength of the market, in
spite of the unsettling effect of all the
prophecies of recession in America, has
been most encouraging to wool producers.
During the season buying has been tor
definite wool commitments, and stocks of
unused wool are at a very low figure.
Wool appeans to have fully maintained
its position vis a vis synthetics as the
desired apparel fibre for temperate and
cold climates; in fact, there appears to
be some reaction against the synthetics,
due perhaps to their quality falling be-
low public anticipation.
A new feature in the trade was the
establishment last year of a futures mar-
ket in London. It is hoped that this will
have a stabilising effect on prices owing
to tfie possibilities it presents for manu-
facturers to insure against price fluctua-
tions during the period from the date of
contract until delivery of the finished
goods.
GENERAL,:
There is considerable satisfaction at
the stability in the general Australian
price level which has been achieved
during the past year. We congratulate
the Commonwealth Government and the
Central Bank on the measure of success
which has attended their policy.
Recently the primary producer has
again experienced considerable difficulty
in obtaining materials necessary for im-
provement work, and this emphasises the
need for official financial and fiscal policy
to be so directed as to influence resources
towards the primary and the basic manu-
facturing industries.
Current world trends —increasing popu-
lation and better living standards —pre-
sent a splendid opportunity for Australia
to concentrate on the development of her
primary industries. Much capital, labor
and material is required, and Govern-
ment pronouncements have indicated
appreciation of the importance of this
factor.
For many years prior to 1945 primary
production generally was operating on
very narrow margins and had little
opportunity to accumulate reserves. We
now have to make up the lag of that
period and adapt ourselves to a differ-
ent cost structure and very great techni-
cal advances. Many producers, trained
in the old methods, have found it very
difficult to adjust themselves to the
changed conditions, but the example and
success of the more progressive men are
having a marked effect in most districts.
Capital requirements are considerable,
and the Federal taxation policy of allow-
ing deductions for many types of im-
provements is farsighted. The Company
has a very important role to play in this
development, both in continually improv-
ing wool handling and marketing methods
and in supporting clients by advice and
financial assistance.
It is essential for reserves to be avail-
able to the Industry to see it through a
general drought—following the 1944-45
one wool production was down by an
average of 17 per cent, for the next
three seasons. It is a comforting fea-
ture that most of the present develop-
ment is taking place in the more reliable
rainfall areas and substantial reserves of
fodder are held so that seasonal hazards
can be regarded with rather more con-
fidence than a few years ago. However,
wool bulks so large in our export income
that any severe seasonal setback or break
in wool prices would have marked reac-
tions on the whole economy.
One of the weakest factors of the
Australian economy is our transport sys-
tem —the cost of which is considered by
some authorities to represent a bigger
proportion of our total production costs
than is the case in any other advanced
country. Although this high cost is due,
in part, to the spread of population round
the outside edge of the continent, it is
a serious tax on the primary producer
and a very substantial addition to costs
of living. Shipping charges are inflated
by misguided Union policy and the rail-
way systems are relatively inefficient with
the State breaks of gauge, rating schedules
and obsolescent rolling stock and per-
manent way. The tendency of State Gov-
ernments to eliminate road transport in
the interests of the railways has the
effect of removing a flexible and speedy
means of transport as well as a continu-
ing incentive to the railways to improve
their systems and reduce their costs. Co-
operation with some degree of competition
between the two systems would appear
to be the proper approach. In general,
an intelligent and effective Australian
transport policy is a matter of the first
importance to the man on the land.
The Australian Wheat Board is experi-
encing very great difficulty in disposing
of last season’s crop, and the question of
the time and amount of payments to pro-
ducers beyond the first advance of 10/-
per bushel is at present obscure. This
Company does not handle wheat, so that
the direct impact on us will be small, but
many of our clients will be substantially
affected. The uncertainty is expected to
lead to a further swing towards wool and
meat production, and thus to further calls
on our services.
The Commonwealth Wool Conference at
a meeting in South Africa early this
month decided to recommend to all wool-
producing countries that production of
wool should be expanded to meet increas-
ing consumption.
STAFF:
The Board is very appreciative of the
work of the Staff. Our officers have to
meet the needs of primary producers under
the varied conditions of all the mainland
States, and much thought is given to
the question of their ability and train-
ing to deal with these diverse require-
ments. Many of our men, in six Wool
Selling Centres and 150 Branches, are
recognised as outstanding in their special
spheres.


QUEENSLAND
v
*
— Sj'
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
A
"From Cope York to Portland
//
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
fd
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Rlverina; S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE;
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman.); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sip
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman) i J. W. Fletcher, 0.8.8. (Vice-Chairman); B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.8.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager; C. A. Bradfield. Consultant: H. W. Herbert.
Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAV
COUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
WITH one eye on the co.’s lustrous
past and the other upon its present
strength and expanding activities, the
market assesses the prospects of this big
undertaking—it is second-largest of Aus-
tralia’s industrial organisations—by pric-
ing the f.-p. £2O shares at £43 (£44 a
year ago) to return only 4.2 p.c. on a 9
p.c. div,, which is the rate paid for the
last four years. The investor who looks
for, say, 5.5 p.c. on his money counts on
a 12 p.c. distribution, or other benefits.
Including the depreciation, etc., reserves
(£12,807,355), net tangible cover (book-
value) is £47 11s. Bd.
On the £14,040,000 of share capital
12 p.c. would call for £266,857 (about
19 p.c.) more profit than was claimed
last term. Certainly net earnings are
known to be conservatively stated, and
there is a lot of money locked up in
assets which are either not yet contribut-
ing to the pool or which have not yet
developed full earning power. Still,
there are so many cross-currents affect-
ing earnings, outgoings and charges in
the three main sections of the under-
taking—sugar, building materials and
chemicals —of which the big new chemi-
cal division is a doubtful profit-earner
at the moment, that it is difficult to say
exactly at what rate declared net earnings
are likely to advance in the more-or-less
immediate future. Main interest in the
scrip is as a holding proposition.
The improvement of £51,549 in last
term’s declared profit was surprisingly
small, considering the big increase in
sugar production, 18 p.c. growth of turn-
over in the building-materials section,
comparatively moderate rise in wage-
rates and lower rate of co.-tax:
e f r . Replacement,
ended E tc-
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
9 p.c.
1951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
Share premiums, £273,000 2,499,249
1952 . . 1,154,444 1,158.300 2,495,393 10,988,539
Share premiums, £273,000 2,768,393
From inner res., £3,498,514 6,266,907
1953 .. 1,366,894 1,228,500 6,404.801 11,710,311
1954 . . 1,417,943 1,268,600 6,559,144 12,807,355
The £1,417,943 of profit claimed was
10.1 p.c. on capital as against 10, 8.9,
8.3, and 10.5 p.c. for the four preceding
years. It was written after setting aside
£1,251,608 (up £385,146) for depreciation,
etc., an unstated amount for taxation and
writing-off the cost of ttye debenture issue.
The £1,251,608 was no more than 4.4
p.c. of the aggregate book-value of fixed
assets at March 31 last; much depends
on how much was spent on fixed assets
and charged against the year’s earnings.
The div. was kept at 9 p.c., and the
average distribution over the last decade
was 9 p.c. The big reserve (£12,807,355)
for replacement and depreciation is partly
a hedge against erosion of capital through
inflation, the incidence of which has been
severely curbed over the last few years.
The greater part of the £14,000,000-odd
programme of expansion and develop-
ment, which began half-a-dozen years
ago and the major portion of which is
now nearing completion, has gone into
the sugar-milling and -refining side of
the business, which is the backbone of
earnings and always has been. In Aiis-
tralia the co. refines all but a small frac-
tion of the country’s growing sugar
requirements, owns seven of the 34 sugar-
mills in the Commonwealth, and oper-
ates two big industrial-alcohol, etc., dis-
tilleries. In Fiji it operates five mills,
and is a grower as well; and there is a
refinery at Auckland (N.Z.), fed with
raws from Fiji, Australian and world
markets.
Last season Australian production of
raws increased by 32 p.c., reaching a
record 1,253,864 tons, of which the home
market took 521,800 tons and the export
market 732,064 tons. The average over-
all price was only 4s. 4d. lower at
£42 7s. lid. per ton. The co.’s own
production of raws in Australia and
Fiji compares as follows;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Australia .. .. 174,552 189,245 243,648
Fiji 115,744 133,645 196,115
290,296 322,890 439,763
Last season’s increase was 29,2 p.c. Aus-
tralia and 46.7 p.c. Fiji. The co.’s sales of
refined and other sugar products in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand were 17.4 p.c.
lighter at 522,760 tons, due partly to the
collapse of the export market for jams,
etc.
How much the building-material sec-
tion contributes to overall profit is not
disclosed, nor is the net result of the
chemicals division. The latter consists
of two subsidiaries, Corbett Pty. and
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty., in each of which
the big Distillers Co. (Scotland) holds a
40 p.c. interest and C.S.R. the balance.
C.S.R. Chemicals, which got into pro-
duction less than a couple of years ago,
reports increasing sales of pharmaceutical
and other fine chemicals, but sales of
cellulose-acetate flake primary raw
material used by Courtaulds in making
rayon yarns—have not been up to ex-
pectations, and tariff protection has been
asked for.
Continued expansion is the feature of
balance-sheet figures:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £13,260,000 £14,040,000 £14,040,000
Reserves .. 2,495,393 6,404,801 6,559,144
Depreciation re-
serves .. 10.983,539 11,710,311 12,807,355
Creditors, etc. 6,263,581 8,589,530 12,915,732
Overdraft .. 5,217,871 8,147,820
Debentures .. 3,777,100 7,000,000
Suspense
account .. 3,657,204
Employees'
funds* ~ 78,093 101,919 ,
Employee de-
bentures .. 154,875 149,190 150,860
Final divs. ~ 596,700 631,800 631,800
£42,706,756 £48,552,471 £54,104,891
Refineries, mills,
etc 20,413,384 24,387,669 26,724,652
Steamers .. 319,327 320,120 351,216
Distilleries .. 809,549 939,252 990,718
Premises . . 267,247 294,847 296,299
Stocks.. .. 12,829,177 12,541,502 9,509,251
Book debts, etc. 4,368,272 5,188,063 6,565,921
Investments .. 3.699,800 4,856,459 4,788,339
Cash and de-
posits .. 24,469 4,878,495
£42,706,756 £48,552,471 £54,104,891
* Provident and benefit funds.
To meet the year’s net additions of
£2,336,983 to mills and refineries, etc.,
and £84,014 to other fixed assets, carry
an extra £1,377,858 of book-debts and
wipe out the overdraft (£3,147,820 at
previous balance), £3,222,900 was added
to the debenture-debt and stocks were
reduced by £3,032,251. The large hold-
ing of cash, etc. (up £4,854,026) is not in
excess of the co.’s needs, the board says.
The outlook in both sugar and
building-materials sections is bright.
The chemical division has yet to show
what it can do in the way of profit-
earning.
Swan Brewery Co. (W.A.)
"REGISTERED in Melbourne in 1887
to operate a brewery at Perth (W.A.),
the co. has since swallowed one com-
petitor after another —including the Lion,
Castlemaine and Emu Breweries, and the
Kalgoorlie Brewery and Ice, Co. —thus
giving it virtually a monopoly of the
trade in the thirsty West. Here consump-
tion of beer per head of population is
above average for the Commonwealth,
and immigration and industrial develop-
ments, including erection of a new oil-
refinery and the discovery of crude-oil,
are pushing population figures ahead.
And old shareholders have reaped
some fine harvests. Divs. ranged from
24 p.c to 32 p.c. for nearly 20 years to
1911. Then, following a £101,450 bonus
share-issue, the rate dropped to 16 p.c.,
with 4 p.c. bonuses added during the
fattest periods, until 1932, when 14 p.c.
was paid. For the next seven years dis-
tributions averaged 22 p.c., and for the
11 years after that 24.2 p.c., sweet-
ened with a further £170,156 of bonus-
scrip in 1941.
In 1951 those on the ord.-register
were doubly rewarded, firstly with a
cash-issue of 311,320 new ss. shares at
a premium of 20s. each, and then with
a two-for-one gift scrip-issue, which took
the sting out of the share-premium and
was made mainly from an assets-revalua-
tion reserve. Although the div. dropped
from 25 p.c. in 1951 to 7.5 p.c. in 1952,
the lower rate was equal to 22.5 p.c. on
capital as it stood immediately before the
big gift-issue just mentioned.
To finance further “large-scale” ex-
tensions to and modernisation of plant
and hotel properties, those on the regis-
ter at April 20, 1954, were offered
3,434,417 new ss. ords. at a premium of
Is. each, payable 3s. on May 26 and the
other 3s. a year later. The issue will lift
paid capital to £3,484,417, of which
£50,000 carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
On that lot the pref. div. and 8.3 p.c.
to the ords. will call for £3707 less profit
than was claimed last term. Reserves
will benefit by £171,721 of share-prem-
iums, making 8.3 p.c. worth 6.9 p.c. on
the new shares.
For the year to March 31 last produc-
tion and consumption of beer continued
to increase, the growth being most marked
in the output of bottled stuff, which is
more profitable than bulk sales, and costs
and income tax were less troublesome.
After allowing something for deprecia-
tion, taxation and contingencies, the
spring in declared net earnings was
£18,016:
Parent and Subsidiaries,
/ Dividends
Year Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, semes.t
31, £ £ p.c. & k &
Unexplained addition, £14,577 .. 2,093,858
1950.. 220.792 3000 25 = 195,303 28,489 2,122,347
Revaluation assets, £1,434,543 .. 3,556,890
Share premiums, £311,320 .. 3,868,210
Unexplained addition, £57,204 .. 3,925,414
1951.. 245.021 3000 25 = 206,912 35,109 3,960,523
Reserves capitalised, £1,716,268 .. 2,244,255
Unexplained addition, £62,204 .. 2,306,459
1952.. 3000 7.5 = 193,186 2,269,075
Unexplained addition, £170,238 .. 2,439,313
1953.. 747 3000 8.3 = 214,651 66,096 2.495,409
Unexplained addition, £108,274 , . 2,603,683
1954.. 291.763 3000 8.3 = 214,651 74,112 2,677,795
* After eliminating outside interests,
t Excludes depreciation reserve, £796,098 at
31/3/’54.
The £291,743 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 11.2 p.c. on ord. capital. That
leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
plained addition to general reserves of
£108,274 net. This and unexplained
additions in previous years suggest that
there is more wheat in the ear than the
eye can see. Some of the £796,098 (up
£59,821) labelled depreciation reserve
might be genuine profit, too.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
°rd 2,575,813 2,575,813 '2,575,818
Reserves .. .. 2,269,075 2,495,408 2,677,795
Outside interests .. 26,496 30,174 18,856
Depreciation res. .. 640,286 736,277 796,098
Mortgages .. 47,753 47,753 47,747
Overdraft .. .. _ 74(662
Tax provision .. ? f 272.763 311,553
Creditors, etc. .. j 627,680 | 491>0 46 217,637
Final divs. .. 108,826 130,291 130,291
£6,345,929 £6,829,525 £6,894,952
Freeholds .. ~ 3,729,584 8,876,328 ’4.016,499
Plant, etc. .. 1,522,031 1,831,412 1,988,674
Stock .. .. 493,681 544,247 546,629
Debtors ~ .. 407.797 310,749 317,806
Cash, etc 192,836 260,789 25,344
£6,345,929 £6,829,525 £6,894,952
The year’s net addition to the book-value
of fixed assets was £297,433, and
£273,409 was clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. Cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £241,445.
The long-term outlook for the business
is one of steady growth, but for some
time to come shareholders may have to
rely mainly upon the dividend rate for
returns from their investment. Prepared
to wait for its benefits, the market prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 10s. 9d. to return
3.8 p.c. on an 8.3 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for, say, 5.5 p.c. on
his money thus counts on the distribu-
tion going to 12 p.c. The 35.-paid con-
tribs. recently sold at 6s. 6d. The £1
prefs. at 225. yield 5.4 p.c. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover is
£124 15s. lid. prefs. and 9s. 2d. ords.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adel.)
THIS 22-year-old Adelaide-controlled
co. and its seven manufacturing,
servicing and sales subsidiaries turn out
high-grade domestic and commercial
refrigeration-units, electric petrol-pumps,
washing-machines and a number of other
domestic appliances, etc. Activities
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
the organisation is well-knit, and the
group has put up a consistently good per-
formance from the start.
Ord. divs. averaged 7.5 p.c. for the
first four years, followed by a steady 10
p.c. for the 11 years to 1948, 15 p.c, for
the next four years, and then 10 p.c. and
15 p.c. again last term. And the pay-
ments have been sweetened with new
share-issues on favorable terms —paid
capital, which advanced from £64,941
in 1939 to £200,000 in 1945, now stands
at £905,000. It has the support and
assistance of £888,328 of reserves, which
include £146,250 of share-premiums
gathered over the last seven years.
Moreover, the board has claimed that
plant is the most modern obtainable,
that production is planned on flow-lines,
that the set-up is flexible and earnings
not too dependent upon any one line. The
co. is thus well equipped to meet com-
petition and to earn whatever profits are
to be won from the trade, as the small
increase in and satisfactory level of profit
for the 1953 term shows —it was a diffi-
cult period during which demand for
refrigerators generally slackened, costs
rose, profit-margins narrowed, stocks
were worked down and the outside debt
reduced.
Australian production of domestic
refrigerators for the year to March 31
last increased by 49 p.c., reaching 257,300
units, thanks to the revival in home-
building and recovery in the economy
generally. Costs were steadier and taxa-
tion lighter, so the co. was able to reduce
selling-prices for its new-model and other
domestic refrigerators, and at the same
time show £87,431 more profit;
Dividends x
Ist 2nd 3rd- Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1948 62,675 7J 6 5 10 29,075 126,923
, Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 7i 6 5 15 57,200 259,390
1950148,808 7J 6 5 15 79,700 828,498
Revaluation assets, £140,000 .. .. 468,498
1961 190,838 7i 6 5 15 79,700 579.636
Taxes, previous years, £5530 .. .. 574,106
1952 144,822 7J 6 5 15 79,700 639,228
Share premiums, £11,250 .. .. 650,478
1953 147,608 7£ 6 5 10 64,700 738,386
Tax overprovided, £33,353 .. .. 766,739
1954 235,039 7* 6 5 15 113,450 888,328
The £235,039 of profit was written after
making an unspecified provision for
depreciation, etc., and setting aside
£156,000 (down £20,000) for taxation.
The previous year’s provision for taxa-
tion, however, was £33,353 in excess of
requirements, so the growth in last term’s
profit was not quite so good as it looked.
The £235,039 was enough to pay'the pref.
divs. and show an attractive 33 p.c. on
the £675,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 25.8, 29.4, 39.7, 30.2 and 29.1 p.c.
back to 1949. A 5 p.c. bonu£ was added


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL
INSURANCE
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
AND
Funds Exceed
kuv
perfect book of reference at upon Application
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• ' ...Docket Book do, (Aiub)
SANDERS
files
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed In the
"Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted Into a
mad for-
(orrastloD
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445, BU 3446, BU 1409.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS KEITH KENNY late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that VERINA
KENNY has filed a Petition for Divorce
in suit No. 640 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by the 21st October 1954 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from N. Y. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN WATKIN BROWN late of 49
Boronia Avenue Epping.—TAKE NOTICE
that WACLAW HLADONIUK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1846 of 1954
against his wife OLWEN VIOLET
MARTHA HLADONIUK on the ground
of her adultery with you If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 15th October 1954
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. TUOKERMAN &
EVANS, Solicitors, of Port Kembla, or
their Sydney Agents, MESSRS. CLAYTON,
UTZ & COMPANY, 136 Liverpool Street,
Sydney,—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting Regis-
trar.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Colling Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
f
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Minirig Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
p . 3C« *
» IWNBWfci
»*■*
. . M
I .?|;:ff|
J
sii'ff * 1-
WW'
&k
ii
; :
■m
11
tt 1
■
- - J
1“ J»W
.
BOOM-ONLY KATES:
Single Booms—*
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
EM
TYRES
rmCTORS AND iiIINES
WPS AND TREES
Takes the hard work out of tyre pumping
and hand greasing . . . Saves enough time to
pay for itself quickly . . . A QUALITY product
with the Mobilco 6 months' guarantee.
MOBILCO
COMBINATION
COMPRESSOR-PUMP fits any
/ vw make of tractor
'm
/
vj
y
Pumping tyres was hard, but not with
the Mobilco Compressor . . . Greasing
implements was hard (and you often
wasted time trying to push grease
through) . . . but not with the Mobilco
Compressor and Grease Gun. They give
you POWER GREASING . . . And a
special pump conversion kit gives you a
handy boom or nozzle type water or
chemical spray as well.
And you're buying quality a first class
article, built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months . . .
REMEMBER IT FITS ALL TRACTORS
ALL MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. TELEGRAMS: "MOBILCO", SYDNEY.
You will want to know more
about this handiest of farm aids.
Send the coupon now and you
will get a very prompt reply . Just
address it to Mobilco, Mitcham,
Victoria.
POST THIS COUPON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without
obligation, all details of the MOBILCO
COMPRESSOR/PUMP.
Name
Address .................................
to the 10 p.c. div., making 15 p.c.
for the year, and £121,589, or
51.7 p.c. of the year’s net earn-
ings, was ploughed back into the
business.
During the year £230,000 was
spent on premises and plant, the
book-value of which increased
by only £139,167:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref £230.000 £230,000
Ordinary .. 675,000 675,000
Reserves .. .. 733,386 888,328
Creditors, etc. .. 547,868 694,423
Tax provision .. 280,457 225,405
Final divs. .. 36,100 73,600
£2,502,811 £2,786,756
Freeholds .. 389,234 432,285
Plant .. .. 303,353 399,469
Stocks* .. .. 1,439,840 1,599,425
Debtors .. .. 128,112 216,399
Cash .. .. 242,272 139,178
£2,502,811 £2,786,756
* Includes work in progress.
To meet the outlay, carry an
extra £159,585 of stocks and
£88,287 more book-debts, cash,
etc., was drawn upon for
£103,094 and £146,555 was
added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc.
The immediate outlook is
bright, though trading conditions
might become more difficult later
in the year. At 10s. 9d. (Bs. Bd.
a year ago) the f.-p, ss, ords.
return 7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distri-
bution. The second 6 p.c. and
third 5 p.c. prefs. at 21s. sd. and
19s. 2d. (last recorded sales) yield
5.6 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively.
The first prefs., which carry a
minimum 6 p.c, and advance with
the ords. to 1\ p.c., seldom
appear on ’Change. Net tangible
cover is 395. 73. per £1 of paid
capital—the prefs. enjoy priority
as to dividends and capital and
share in surplus assets.
Morris Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
the price of the ord.
** scrip in this big and well-
entrenched island merchandising
co. and plantation-owner has
followed the moods and trends
of the market and the recent
strengthening of the div., the
business itself has moved steadily
from strength to strength over a
long period. For this and other
reasons, including pending erec-
tion of the co.’s new South Seas
Hotel at Suva, plans for which
are now being altered to incor-
porate precautions against earth-
quake, the shares are a sound
equity with encouraging
prospects as a holding proposi-
tion.
The £739,613 of share capital,
of which £219,206 carries a fixed
cumulative 6 p.c., was backed
by reserves with a book-value
of £1,230,451 at March 31, 1954,
and the inner strength has not
been neglected either—during the
three years to 1945 £288,000 of
inner reserves were disclosed,
and over the eight years to the
close of last accounts capital
profits from sales of assets
totalled £161,022.
Over the last 18 months
the price of the f.-p. £1
ords has fluctuated within the
comparatively narrow price-
bracket of 475.-525. on Sydney
’Change. In Australian currency
the return at 525. is 5.2 p.c. on a
12£ p.c. div. basis — \l\ p.c. Fiji
is worth 13| p.c. Australian at
the current rate of exchange.
And the 6 p.c. prefs. at 255. thus
yield 5.2 p.c. Net tangible cover
(Fiji currency) is £8 19s. Bd.
prefs. and 675. 3d. ords.
Trade activity in Fiji and the
near-by islands depends largely
upon conditions in the sugar,
copra, banana, dairying, mining
and a number of minor indus-
tries. Copra and sugar are taken
wholly or in part by the, British
Government under long-term
contracts at annually determined
prices.
During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts
conditions were mixed; more
sugar but less copra was pro-
duced. Net earnings showed a
moderate gain of £3990, reaching
a record £137,175, which
includes £26,847 (down £8984)
dropped into insurance funds
(now £287,722):
, Dividends —^
Prefs.
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£* £* pc £>* £*
’49..116,382 13,152 10'=52,040 866,733
Capital profit, £27,597 .. 894,330
’50..115,639 13,152 10 =52,040 944,777
Capital profit, £9150 . . 953,927
’51..126,437 18,152 10 =52,040 1,015,172
Capital loss, £4OB .. .. 1,014,764
’62..117,309 13,152 10 =52,040 1,066,881
Capital profit, £16,548 . . 1,083,429
’53..133,185 13,152 10 =52,041 1,151,421
Capital profit, £13,553 .. 1,164,974
’54..137,175 13,152 Hi = 58,546 1,230,451
* Fijian currency.
The £137,175, which disregards a
capital profit of £13,553, was
enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 23.8 p.c. on the £520,047
of ord. capital as against 23, 20,
21.7, 19.7 and 19.7 p.c, back to
1949.
And that was after allow-
ing something for stock deprecia-
tion as well as making a “sub-
stantial allotment from profits”
against book-debts, because
“competitors forced the pace in
regard to credit-giving.” More-
over, the cautious board con-
sidered the outlook good enough
to lift the div. from 10 p.c. (an
annual event for the nine years
to 1953) to Hi p.c., the final
being at the rate of 12£ p.c. p.a.,
which rate it is proposed to
maintain, subject, of course, to
unforeseen developments. Since
the pref. div. and 12i p.c. to ords.
will together call for £78,203,
the 12i p.c. looks like being a
comfortable matter.
The next table reflects con-
tinued growth of the undertaking
as well as a very strong financial
position:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital— (Fijian) (Fijian)
Pref £219,206 £219,206
Ord 520,407 520,407
Reserves . • .. 1,151,418 1,230,448
Creditors, etc. .. 169,273 166,598
Suspense* .. .. 207,542 225,462
Final divs. .. 26,020 32,525
£2,293,866 £2,394,646
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. .. 278,001 274,240
Plantations .. 42,921 45,756
Stocks, etc. .. 697,751 626,719
Capital value
branches .. 136,296 163,093
Book debts, etc. .. 253,970 366,166
Investments and
cash .. .. 884,927 918,672
£2,293,866 £2,394,646
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
The year’s improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,650,065) wa s £79,956.
While book-debts increased
by £112,196 net and the
capital value of branches by
£26,797, stocks were reduced by
£71,032 and only £17,920 was
added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. Invest-
ments and cash include £781,513
of cash (£614,005) and Govern-
ment and municipal securities
(£167,508), most or all of which
will be needed to finance erection
of the new hotel and recondition-
ing and extension of existing
branch and other premises.
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd.,
operating auriferous leases on the
Macquarie River (N.S.W.), has
returned to the dividend list after
an absence of nearly four years.
It will send out 3s. (12| p.c.) per
2s. share on August 4. Last pre-
vious payment was 2d. a share in
July, 1950. Accounts are not yet
available, but for the year to
April 30 last the dredge treated
more better-grade ground for
16,7400 z. fine gold, an increase
of nearly 50 p.c. on the previous
year’s figure. The shares, which
had dropped to Is. sd. in 1953,
recently fetched ss. 2d.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce,
TO NORMAN MARTIN MURPHY late of 7 Alfred
Street, Mascot.—TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT
GEORGE WOODS and BETTY LEONA MURPHY
your wife have filed petitions for divorce No. 4899
of 1953 and No. 683 of 1954 respectively both on
the grounds of your adultery with JOYCE ELLEN
WOODS If you wish to defend these petitions you
may enter an appearance in each suit in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 11th October 1954 and a copy of each petition
may be obtained without charge from JOSEPH H.
McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—O. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —Is Divorce.
TO JOYCE ELLEN WOODS late of 15 Hawthorne
Parade Haberfield.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band ROBERT GEORGE WOODS and BETTY LEONA
MURPHY have filed petitions for divorce No. 4899 of
1953 and No. 683 of 1954 respectively, both on
the ground of your adultery with NORMAN MARTIN
MURPHY If you wish to defend the suit No. 4899
of 1953 wherein you are respondent you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 11th October 1954
and in suit No. 683 of 1954 wherein you are the
woman charged you may apply at any time to the
Court for leave to intervene and obtain a copy of
each petition without charge from JOSEPH H.
McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED GEORGE MURRAY late of Denman.—
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH BARBARA
MURRAY has filed a petition for divorce No. 1479
of 1954 on the ground of your desertion during
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st day of October
1954 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from TAPERELL & PETERSEN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Women's leţers
SYDNEY
Eight of Sydney’s least-glamorous debs,
were presented to the Dean of the Faculty
of Medicine, Professor E. Ford, at the
Sydney University Medical Association’s
Ball at the Troc. on Friday. They were
masculine med. students adorned with
flaxen wigs and yards of display tulle,
but their curtseys were something really
worth watching. About 1100 dancers
were received by Mrs. Harold Dew, who
wore a dress of pale-gold brocaded with
a tiny blue leaf. The flower-decorations,
which included garlands of camellias and
ivy for the official table and masses of
poinsettias in the foyer, had been
arranged by Mrs. Hugh Barry (who
looked attractive in grey organza with
crystal embroidery), Mrs. J. H. Carman
and Mrs. A. W. Morrow. Among those
who attended the ball were Dr. and Mrs,
F. Niesche, Dr. and Mrs. Warwick Stem
ing. Dr. and Mrs, Dobell-Brown.
a ☆ ☆
That group of 30 young things who
constitute the Younger Set of the Food
for Babies Fund has been in action
only seven months, but during the first
five of those they raised £lOOO for the
fund, and judging by the energy with
which they organise functions (one each
month) they may even exceed that figure
within the year.
Their “Night at the Sheridan,” held on
Saturday, was a gay affair, with over 200
present. It was interesting to note that
nearly all the girls wore ballerinas ; there
was scarcely a full-length dress to be
seen. President Ann Marriott’s dress was
sky-blue organdie and secretary Shirley
Robinson’s was pink chiffon. Other pretty
dresses noted were Neoma Swan’s red
ballerina, Frances Hampton’s black-and-
white-striped cocktail-frock, Margaret
Mahony’s rose chiffon worn over a crino-
line, Beverley Bloch’s black cocktail-
dress, the white-and-silver ballerina worn
by Toni Althouse, and Jill Manning’s
grey organdie.
* * *
Two more opera-openings during the
week drew large audiences, which were,
however, robbed somewhat of their
glamor by the bleak weather, so that
the top-coats rather outnumbered the
silks-and-satins and many a little woollen
bolero was hidden beneath a velvet coat,
Mr. Eugene Goossens was present at the
first opening, also Mr. and Mrs, Vernon
Treatt and Dr. Roberto Regala with
Madame Regala (whosei sapphire mink-
stole was worn over black silk brocaded
with gold), Dr. and Mrs, Lyle Buchanan,
Mr. and Mrs. B. P. McFarlan, Mr. and
Mrs. Ernest Lashmar, Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Jenkyn, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Morris,
Mr. and Mrs. J. H- Pelley, Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Williams. Mrs. C. T. Lorenz
wore black for both openings, with a
Chinese-embroidered cape on Tuesday
and a vivid Spanish shawl on Thursday.
☆ ☆ ☆
An afternoon musicale was held on
Sunday at Rosemont, the Woollahra
home of Sir Charles and Lady Lloyd
Jones, to help Madame Louis Roche’s
appeal for the widows and orphans of
French soldiers lost in Indo-China. The
new Consul-General for France, M.
Fournier de Montousse, was present, and
the guests, who listened to Mr. Isador
Goodman’s pianoforte recital, included
Madame Suzanne Danco, world-famous
soprano, and Miss Florence Desmond.
Lady Lloyd Jones welcomed about 80
guests, among whom were Mrs. A. G.
Potter and her daughter Barbara, Mrs.
Strath Playfair, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland,
Mrs. Ruth Watt, Mrs. Lennox Bode,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses, Mrs. Hope
Gibson and Mrs. David Roper. Madame
Roche, who spoke briefly of the dis-
tress caused by the war, now seven years
old, has arranged a film-premiere to be
held in the presence of their Excellencies
the Governor-General and Lady Slim at
Canberra on July 11 in aid of the appeal.
* * ☆
Those who saw Florence Desmond
give her impressions of well-known per-
sonalities, from Bette Davis to Olivia de
Haviland, from Queen Victoria to
Schnozzle Durante, at four matinees
during the week found it hard to under-
stand how she can have the determination
to retire finally from the stage at the
age of 49. “I always said I would retire
before I was fifty,” she said at her final,
tearful performance on Friday, “and I
was forty-nine in Adelaide, so this must
be my last appearance.” She wants to
retire with her husband to their farm in
England before it can be said of her,
“Well, it’s about time she retired.” To
Sydney people who saw her at the Tivoli
last week she seemed at the height of
her powers, and the loss to the stage is
a very sad one.
* * *
Her friends will be sorry to hear of
the illness of Lady Butters. She is one
pf Sydney’s best-liked people.
Deidre Hall, who is the daughter of
John Farnsworth Hall (conductor of the
Brisbane Symphony Orchestra) and Mrs.
M. Hall, of Randwick, was hostess with
her mother to about 70 guests at a coming-
of-age party at Sherbrook recently.
Deidre, who is studying the flute, hopes
to make music her career. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Married at Shore Chapel during the
week, Judy Gordon, youngest daughter
of Mr, and Mrs. J, M. Gordon, of Win-
della, Burren Junction, and Rowan
Hickson, elder son of Major and Mrs.
R. R. B. Hickson, of Cremorne—they
will make their home at Bathurst. The
bride wore white Swiss-embroidered
organdie over pale-blue, and her brides-
maids, Margaret Ross (Darling Point),
Helen Terry (Bathurst), Rosemary Cullen
(Bringelly) and Lucille de Lepervanche,
also wore embroidered organdie, two
with lavender underskirts and two with
apple-green. The groomsmen were Tony
Allport (Gulgong), Bill Clifton (Coona-
barabran), Brian Barton (Wellington) and
Michael Meares. Reception was held by
the bride’s parents at the Australia.
☆ * *
Sydney now has 16,000 subscribers to
symphony-concert series, said to be the
largest number for any city in the world.
This does not mean, of course, that Syd-
ney has more concertgcers than any
other city, for Sydney people are not so
keen on supporting isolated concerts.
They like to subscribe and to go to a
series. Why this is so may prove a
theme for a psychologist, but the enthusi-
astic “full house” for the opening of
the A.B.C.’s fifth series on Saturday
night, with conductor Enrique Jorda and
violinist Isaac Stern, left no doubt that
it is so.
* * *
Last Saturday in Alice Springs Prime
Minister Menzies laid the foundation-
stone of the Flynn Memorial
Church, a national memorial to
Flynn of the Inland, superintend-
ent of the Australian Inland Mis-
sion and founder of the Flying Doctor
services. The P.M. thus commenced the
work which the Rev. John Flynn himself
envisaged in 1919 as an “Inland Cathe-
dral,” but which he set aside for what
he considered the more urgent work of
abolishing the isolation and allaying the
fears of sickness and untimely death
which beset the pioneers of the inland
in their lonely, faraway homes. Today
his dream of the “Inland Cathedral” is to
be fulfilled in the form of a memorial
church in his honor, built of sparkling
pink-and-white marble and red sandstone,
radically new and arresting in design.
☆ ☆ ☆
Debutantes at the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball, which is to be held at the Town
Hall (bn Thursday, September 23, were
entertained by the Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
P. D. Hills) in her rooms last Thursday.
The number of debs at this ball is always
limited to 12, and this year the girls to
be presented to the Governor will be Rai
Abernethy, Wendy Brown, Claire
Curchod, Miriam Ryan, Judith Webster,
Valerie Landon, Elizabeth Shaw, Marilyn
Daniel, Anne McGrath, Gwen Molloy,
Jann Cockle and Marie Rigney.
MELBCUICNE
It was on June 22, 1854, that the
Lieut.-Governor of the new colony of
Victoria, Sir Charles Hotham, K.C.8.,
R.N., and Lady Hotham, took up
residence in Toorak House. When Gov-
ernment House, in St. Kilda-road, was
finished 20 years later, Toorak House,
with its 44 acres, was sold. The Spowers
family acquired it almost 50 years ago,
and to celebrate the centenary of the
grand old place, Mr, Allan Spowers and
his wife, the present owners, invited 300
guests to a late-aftemoon party.
Some of the past was recaptured with
the mellow music of violin and ’cello
heard in the drawing-room. From a
flood-lit tower fluttered the Union Jack.
Mrs. Spowers received the guests with
her husband and daughter, Mrs. Rosita
Fraser. The hostess wore a ballerina
frock of mushroom-toned tie-silk pat-
terned with white coin-spots, her
daughter a flounced frock of white
organza, hail-spotted in black.
Among the guests were the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, and Lady
Herring, Lieut.-General Sir Sydney
Rowell and Lady Rowell, and Sir
Rupert and Lady Clarke.
The modern bonnets worn by many of
the guests were lovely. Miss Ella Payne’s
veiled bandeau was of powder-blue
velvet with tiny feather bluebirds at each
side. Mrs. Douglas Stephens chose an
unusual scarlet-velvet cap with a high-
pointed crown. Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s
spangled eye-veil was held with a dia-
mente bandeau tied with black-velvet
ribbons. Virginia Davenport’s tiny hat
was of white feathers.
Mrs. John Middleton, whose husband
is U.S. Military Attache, hails from
Georgia. Colonel and Mrs. Middleton
have twin sons, John and Bill, who are
at Melbourne Grammar School; when
they all return to the U.S. late in August
the boys will go to Georgetown High
School in Washington, prior to university.
Mrs. Middleton is president of the Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital, and also president of the com-
mittee arranging the Gay ’Nineties Ball.
This function, to be held on July 2 at the
Palais de Danse, will be attended by the
Governor and Lady Brooks. Mrs. Middle-
ton recently received a letter from
President Eisenhower commending the
work done by the auxiliary for the hos-
pital.
“Thirty, and nine to go,” remarked
pianist Solomon at a cocktail-party given
in his honor' by the committee of the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra subscribers.
The nine more will complete his A.B.C.
season.
An unusual centrepiece of pale iris
mixed with pink carnations and sur-
rounded by tall, colored candles decor-
ated the bulfet-table in the reception-
room of Majella, St. Kilda-road. K. A.
Halliday, president of the committee, and
David Gale, secretary, received Solomon
and the 50 guests. They included Dean
Barton Babbage and his wife, and Sir
John Medley, Sir Bernard Heinze, Mrs.
Don Cochrane (formerly pianist Bunty
Schofield), Mrs. Guy Bakewell, pianist
Vera Bradford, Mrs. John Chaldjian,
Mrs. H. Aikman, Mrs. J. Carnegie, Dr.
Percy Jones, Dr. John O’Donoghue and
Mr. H. Outtrim,
☆ * *
So overwhelming was the applause
given to Solomon at the conclusion of
his performance of the Schumann Piano
Concerto that this usually composed artist
threw the huge audience a kiss. The Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra was con-
ducted by Sir Bernard Heinze. In the audi-
ence were Lady Heinze, Lady Angliss,
accompanied by her small grand-
daughter, Diana Knox, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot, Mrs.
Colin McKay, Mrs. Margaret Saker,
Helen Manton and Francis Galbally and
his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
About 90 guests attended the dinner
given at the Australia to Mr. Ernest
Marks by the heads of departments of
Julius Kayser Pty., Ltd., of which Mr.
Marks was managing-director when he
recently retired after 45 years’ service.
Mrs. Ernest Marks wore a smart black-
chiffon gown, which featured accordion-
pleating. Mr. Marks’s daughter, Mrs.
Philip Hayman, chose a black guipure-
lace gown mounted on pink satin. In his
speech of thanks Mr. Marks (who was
the recipient of a Royal Doulton dinner-
service) recalled the days when lisle stock-
ings sold for tenpence a pair and silk
stockings for four-and-elevenpence. The
dozen women guests listened to this with
no little emotion.
* ☆ ☆
Colorful hats were a feature of the
Moonee Valley Club’s meeting; coral-
pink, Ming, turquoise, emerald and Kelly-
green were used in small hats to liven
more sombre colors. A coral-pink tent-
coat was worn by Mrs. Geoffrey Tolsen
with one of the new Eva Bartok hats in
smooth black felt. Mrs. Norman Robin-
son wore with her black frock an off-
white angora coat and a matching pillbox
hat. Mrs, M- Niall’s cinnamon-brown
angora suit had a lighter-brown toque for
company; her daughter Deidre wore a
tiny black lace-straw cloche.
Mrs. W. S. Cox chose one of the new
wrapover coats in deep-beige wool and
contrasted it with a black-chiffon cloche
with a side-drape. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Solly, wore a striking hat: of lilac-
blue melusine, it was pillbox in shape,
and in front was pinned a mother-of-pearl
and silver-sequin brooch. Pink apple-
blossoms covered the black-velvet boater
worn by Mrs. E. Hooper, whilst bronze
sequins were splashed on the brown
platter-beret worn by Mrs. M. Tomkins,
and a matching ornament was worn in
the Ming-blue velvet cloche worn by
Mrs. T. Allan McKay. Mrs. A. G. Silk’s
black-mohair coat was trimmed with
black velvet. Mrs. E. T. Abraham, a
bride from the U.S., wore a mink coat
and small gold-yellow beret. Black-and-
white-speckled tweed coats were chosen
by both Mrs. John Cain and Mrs. Michael
Ryan.
☆ ☆ *
The Air Force Association will hold its
annual ball at the Royale on July 16 ; the
Governor and Lady Brooks will attend.
Tickets, at 30s. each, may be obtained
from Mrs. Peter Cox (8J5539), Mrs.
Edward Campbell (Windsor 6774), or
from the association’s secretary, Mr.
Bowen Harley, at Air Force House,
Flinders-lane (Central 1916).


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUBREY CECIL CARTER late oi
Darlinghurst N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE
that ADA IRENE CARTER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1846 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend the suit you may
enter an appearance on or before the 18th
day of October 1954 at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney A copy of the petition may be had
without charge from J. K. DIXON, Solici-
tor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FLORENCE ELIZABETH BURROWS
(also known as FLORENCE ELIZABETH
SHARP) late of “The Mayo’’ Victoria
Street King’s Cross Sydney New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that GARTH
ELLIOTT BURROW'S (also known as
GARTH ELLIOTT SHARP) has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1842 of 1954 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th October 1954 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from H. WILSHIRE WEBB, Solicitor, of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—N. V.
BROWN, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN SYLVESTER O’DONNELL
(also known as JOHN SYLVESTER
LEWIS) late of 228 East Street Rock-
hampton Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that RENE ROSE O’DONNELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1452 of 1952
on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under s. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
15th October 1954 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar. __
' IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
No. 523 of 1954.
(Federal Matrimonial Causes.)
BETWEEN EUNICE ELLA CATHERINE
MASON (formerly known as HUDSON)
Petitioner AND FREDERICK HUDSON
(Respondent) TO FREDERICK HUDSON
late of Railway Parade Darra Queens-
land—TAKE NOTICE that EUNICE
ELLA CATHERINE MASON (formerly
known as HUDSON) has filed a Petition
for Divorce under Queensland Law No.
523 of 1954 on the ground that you have
deserted her without cause continuously
for three years or upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 13th September
1954 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from ICETON, FAITH-
FULL & BALDOCK, Solicitors, of 28
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
.. .of course!
The Spirit of Hospitality
R 6
SUDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Australian Exhibition
in Rome
Australian artists Albert
Tucker and Sidney Nolan lately
exhibited in Rome ; the follow-
ing review, by art critic Virgilio
Guzzi, was published in the con-
servative Rome newspaper “II
Tempo”:
“Two Australian artists, both
young, and both from Mel-
bourne, exhibit these days in the
main room of the Foreign Press
Headquarters.
“We must confess at once that
we are insufficiently acquainted
with Australian culture; and
therefore this kind of painting
is somewhat a surprise to us.
He who expected to find in the
works of Albert Tucker and
Sidney Nolan the will of express-
ing in a naive way the atmos-
phere, the light, the feeling, of
the continent in which they live,
would be deluded. They are
rather artists who know intensely
the European aesthetic grammar,
and they adjust their impulses
unconditionally to it.
“We would have liked to see
in these pictures a European
tradition filtered through the
spirit of the Australian environ-
ment, and this would have been
a thing very original indeed ; we
notice, instead, a sophistication
entirely Parisian, the outcome of
a well-equipped culture, most
up-to-date,
“In the work of Tucker, for
instance, there is perceptible a
posterish taste a la Depero
(Depero was a futuristic
cartoonist, very original), and a
powerful sense of the monstrous
a la Picasso, although a kind of
Picasso more ‘readable.’
“He can hide certain tonal
effects under chromatic textures,
rather crude and violent. Besides,
we notice a strange symbolism
in the ‘Judah.’ Of course, here
the conception of the monster is
vigorous, and the pictorial
arrangement well-nourished.
“Likewise violent and almost
wild is the conception of ‘The
Betraying of Judah,’ which is
perhaps the best picture exhibited
by Tucker; while other paint-
ings (of the type of ‘Meeting’)
convey a vision of the world dis-
creetly ironical and amusing, be-
cause of an adjustment of colors
pleasing and competent.
“Sidney Nolan is, instead, an
artist who is more sensible to
the outer world, and it is for
this reason that his art, less intel-
lectualistic, remains more easily
in the accepted domain of paint-
m “He uses a technique which
still smells both of Impres-
sionism and local-color. Above
it we can perceive passing by
the ghosts of Van Gogh and
Rousseau, but only as remote
evocations, hardly perceptible.
See, for instance, the fairy
‘Temptations of St. Anthony’
and the ‘Death of Captain
Fraser.’ But his outlook can
easily be recognised in the vast
landscapes of the Australian
desert, both blazing and
apocalyptic, which provide the
artist with the incentive for
well-built, solid and dense
results.”
♦♦♦ *X* *
Lena Skipper
Lena Skipper’s show at the
Victorian Artists’ Society is an
oasis of variety and freshness.
These small, modestly-priced
canvases depict nature in its
changing moods ; the brushwork
is sure and clean and in harmony
with the artist’s intention —it
never intrudes and is devoid of
slickness. Most of the works
scintillate with brilliant sunshine,
but here and there the artist
shows her versatility in her im-
pressions of the more sombre
and dramatic moods of nature.
“Waiting” and “Mosman Bay”
are sensitive and beautiful color
harmonies. The little fishing-port
of San Remo (Vic.) supplied
most of the subject-matter, and
the artist has made the most
° f T TV/r
J. M.
* ❖
Brereton Memorial
Robert Le Gay Brereton was
a young Australian art-student
at East Sydney Tech. —who en-
listed in the R.A.A.F. and went
to England, where he was
attached to 460 Squadron and
did a tour of 30 raids over
Europe, including the first 1000-
bomber raid. He was killed in
action on August 31, 1944, just
after volunteering for a second
tour of ops. and a few days
before his 22nd birthday.
In his memory his relations,
Geoffrey Le Gay Brereton, Mrs.
Allan Armstrong and John Le
Gay Brereton, have provided for
an annual art-prize of at least
£4O for drawing, to be adminis-
tered by the trustees of the N. S.
Wales National Gallery.
The award—for an art-student
of promise and ability and of at
least two-years’ residence in
Australia —is designed particu-
larly to encourage draughtsman-
ship. Studies submitted must
comprise two life figure-drawings
(one of each sex), one study of
hands and feet, one or two
studies of the head and a sketch-
book of drawings of any subject.
The studies may be in any
medium, but preferably pen,
pencil, crayon or brush.
Stage and Music
“Juno and the Paycock”
Donagh MacDonagh’s produc-
tion of Sean O’Casey’s ‘ Juno
and the Paycock” for Brisbane
Twelfth Night Theatre was one
that had obviously been thought
over with considerable care and
obvious affection, for success is
difficult in a play where the
most boisterous of comedy has a
note of bitterness running
through it. Except for minor
characters, the cast had a sureness
of touch rarely achieved in the
short runs of Little Theatre
plays.
The atmosphere is one of slum-
poverty in the Dublin of 1922,
but O’Casey does not fight Irish
civil quarrels for us. His theme
is more universal: the,ebb and
flow of family fortunes in the
old situation of a promised
inheritance which never comes
true. The I.R.A. struggles are
used as a background of harsh-
ness to the comedy.
As the Paycock, “Captain”
Jack Boyle, James Stevens had
a swaggering boastfulness which
allowed him to remain cheerfully
above his family battles. As
the tipsy Joxer Daly, Harry
Cotterell was an able partner,
his acting a blend of impudence
and the flickering wisdom of
those who see life through the
bottle. The rich comedy of the
central scenes was largely the
result of an acting duet between
Stevens and Blanche Lather, as
a sentimental virago of a
neighbor With a passion for
whisky, hypocrisy and oppor-
tunism.
The final scene is O’Casey at
his finest, pulling at the heart on
several different emotional levels.
The last drunken sprawl of the
captain across the footlights.
oblivious of the murder of his
son by a nationalist group, is
O’Casey’s way of indicating that
life goes on whatever the bitter-
ness of personal troubles.
The play is in prose, but the
spirit is one of poetry, and this
was beautifully brought out by
cast and producer without any
recourse to that note of keening
which too often makes an Irish
play painful rather than tragic.
D. J. M.
* ❖ *
Opera Double Bill
Reduced to its essence, the plot
of “II Tabarro” —which, with
another Puccini one-acter,
“Gianni Schicchi,” comprised
National Opera’s third Sydney
offering—is simply that a jealous
Parisian bargeman strangles his
wife’s paramour. The music is
rather harsh and uncompromis-
ing, but seemingly suited to the
grim doings. Unlike any other
Puccini opera, it contains no
whistleable aria.
The three principals were well
cast: Neil Easton, as the barge-
man Gladys Mawson, the wife ;
and Robert O’Donnell, the lover.
The performance reached such
dramatic intensity, and the
strangling scene was so starkly
realistic, that it was almost a
relief to see Robert O’Donnell
taking a curtain-call a few
minutes later.
In “Gianni Schicchi” Momus
skips on to the boards with a
very droll story of the shrewd-
head, the “bush lawyer” who con-
founds the venal relatives of a
rich man.
Frank Lisle took the title-role
with his sturdy bass
in good form and his diction
excellent. That couldn’t be said
of several others of the cast,
whose words, especially when
singing at speed, often became
tangled, and the enunciation
muddy. But the good features —
the spontaneous humor, the
hypocritical mourning-scene, the
sly satisfaction of Schicchi and
the baffled rage of the smug
relatives when he defeats tjiem —
outweighed the defects of the
production.
“La Boheme,” the company’s
fourth offering, was substantially
the same as last year’s version,
except that the humor was
accentuated in the first act, where
the quartet of bohemians ply the
landlord with wine to divert his
importunities ; the pathos of the
final act also was given a deeper
tinge. The only newcomer was
Douglas Famell, who sang well
as Colline.
Tais Taras was Mirrti, her voice
improved greatly on her perform-
ance a fortnight before in
“Seraglio.” Betty Prentice gave
Musetta’s air an appealing touch
of gay abandon. Ronald Dowd
(as Rodolfo), Geoffrey Chard
(as Marcel), Neil Easton (as
Schaunard) and Frank Lisle (in
the dual roles of landlord and
elderly lover of Musetta) com-
bined well in the studio and
Cafe Momus scenes.
* ❖
Enrique Jorda
At the.latest Youth Concert at
Melbourne Town Hall, Enrique
Jorda, relying more on his ex-
pressive fingers than on the
baton, seemed able to make
almost any sort of musical
subject-matter exciting without
interfering with its character.
He did this notably well with
the dainty Weber Freischutz
Overture which opened the pro-
ceedings, and he succeeded in
elevating Mendelssohn’s Italian
Symphony to something pro-
foundly jolly instead of the
emptily gay, where most conduc-
tors keep it. y .
Violinist Maurice Clare made
his contribution in four con-
certos depicting the Four Seasons
by Vivaldi. The interesting thing
about this 300-year-old music
describing the moods of spring,
summer, autumn and winter was
that it sounded as fresh and as
independent of any current
fashion as a landscape by Claude,
Da Vinci or El Greco.
* ❖ ❖
Walter Wilkinson Puppets
“All plays should be acted by
puppets; live actors only get in
the way,” Shaw once opined, and
Walter Wilkinson’s brood of
energetic puppets give consider-
able support to that opinion.
But then, on the strength of his
show at Chatswood (Sydney)
Town Hall, Mr. Wilkinson could
probably puff life into an
Egyptian mummy, and even the
scenery bows to the audience as
it trundles off-stage.
The puppets “speak” the most
beautiful English, and could act
most film-stars off the screen.
The secret of their extraordinary
effectiveness seems to rest in their
being able to express themselves
only by movements of the whole
body. Perhaps the ancient drama,
in covering the actors’ faces with
masks,- aimed at forcing the
players into the same sweeping
style.
Of particular appeal was the
little carpenter who, working
with monstrous energy, asked,
“Why are those people [the
audience] laughing? Aren’t they
used to seeing people working?”
Such little whimsical touches
added a lot to the evening, and
were, if anything, more enjoy-
able than the longer and more
pretentious Elizabethan plays.


and away we go
by
David
Rowlotham
HE did save my life, I
suppose, but that is
something I can now
overlook . . .
After work, instead of return-
ing to my lodgings, I alighted
from the train at a station up
the line and sat moping and
munching in a small cafe near
by. The omelette was leathery,
the toast dry and brittle, the
coffee gritty.
A stranger swaggered in and
sat opposite me at the table.
His nose was crooked, his
features were pointed, and his
shoulders sloped. His dress was
untidy and shabby. Instinctively
I grew absorbed in my cigarette
and damnable coffee.
He began talking, and,
guarded and detached in my
replies, I was reaching for my
bill when he said something
which persuaded me to wait a
while.
“You look as if you have
more brains than me, brother.”
I was immediately interested
I responded with a patronising
smile and a more benevolent
attitude towards the stranger.
Soon I began to make contribu-
tions to the conversation.
Exchanges became more and
more confidential until, sympa-
thising with each other about our
common boredom on a cloudy
evening, we decided we ought to
do something to remedy the
situation.
“A dance,” suggested William
(for so he introduced himself),
“and girls.” That would be a
reasonable sort of beginning. I
agreed; I especially approved
of the idea of the girls.
'THE dance, in progress a few
A stations nearer Wynyard,
was one of those public ones to
which admittance is gained by
dodging among motor-bikes
piled up at the kerb outside. We
insinuated our way through the
checked shirts, craning necks and
vivid commentary of the gentle-
men congregated at the entrance.
The band consisted of a saxo-
phone, a soloist, a piano, a
drum, an accordion and a violin,
all perspiring over a rowdy
quickstep. A master -of -
ceremonies, his hands clasped in
front of him at stood
in remarkable self-effacement
and a dinner-suit on one side of
the band platform.
William didn’t have the right
money, so I paid for his way in,
“Well, brother?” he asked at
the end of the dance. We had
both sat our partners down in
their former positions and met
among the crowd of gentry who
stood like a bunch of buyers in
the middle of the floor.
“The answer’s no,” I said, with
a certain air of inadequacy.
“Don’t worry. I’ll fix it.” He
spoke as if we were discus-
sing recalcitrant window-blinds.
The master-of-cererhonies sud-
denly came out of his self-efface-
ment, walked to the microphone,
smiled an indulgent smile, and
in a loud squeaking voice
announced a foxtrot. “Now grab
your partners, gentlemen. Don’t
be shy. One, two, three and
away we go.”
The band broke into a commo-
tion like a lorry back-firing, and
then settled down to an unadven-
turous but loud rendering of an
unrecognisable tune. After the
dance I was again forced to
report to William that I had been
about as successful as a country
vicar with a chorus-girl.
William for a moment seemed
on the verge of incautiously with-
drawing his opinion about my
brains. Instead he said, with
admirable levity, “Never mind,
brother. We can share Alice,
the one in the jersey. We’ll move
on soon.”
“As you wish,” I replied. I
always capitulate to plans that
are obviously more succinct than
my own.
I was duly introduced to Alice.
She was pretty in a factory-girl
fashion, mousey of hair and
valiantly trying to be a sweater-
girl into the bargain. Ushered
by William we left the rowdy
quicksteps and foxtrots and
caught a train to the city.
VjUE disembarked at Town
Hall station. William, tak-
ing Alice’s hand, dragged her a
trifle unceremoniously up the
escalator, up the stairs, into an
atmosphere of neon-signs and
city-air dampened by a faint mist.
We arrived at a lane way and
entered an environment that was
dark and illicitly-private within
a stone’s-throw of brightly-lit
trams grinding, unaware of our
sudden underworld, along
George-street. William stopped
before a high board-wall that
rose between the sides of two
brick premises. Set in the wall
about a foot from the sidewalk
was a door. Behind it voices
mingled in talk and laughter
which penetrated, like the hidden
light, through chinks, and eddied
over the top of the wall.
“Wait here,” said William,
and knocked like a lodge-tyler
on the door. It was opened
cautiously and he wriggled in.
He was absent about ten
minutes.
The door opened again and
William climbed cheerily back to
us, followed by a girl in a tight
skirt that was tigher still when
she raised a shapely leg to
negotiate the foot-high barrier.
William gallantly handed her
through, waved breezily to an
indistinguishable assembly on
the inside and called, “Thanks a
lot, fellers.”
Someone said, “Okay,” and
the door closed.
“This is Jean.”
“Hullo,” we said. Jean
answered in a lilting husky voice.
“Hi, there.”
“Jim’s is the place,” said
William mysteriously, marshal-
ling us. “Any taximan will
know the way.”
William had the drive, cold
initiative, ebullient hide, daunt-
lessness, and kind of scruples
that would have made him a
luminary in any profession. The
only thing he probably lacked
was an applied ambition. He
was, in his übiquitous way, a
genius, and when I was able to
study Jean more clearly in the
light of George-street I realised
that he could not only enlist the
company of junior-reporters and
sweater-girls, but was capable
of drafting something from much
nearer the top of the Christmas-
tree.
His new acquisition was
dressed in a light-blue gabardine-
suit, and had the kind of wavy
figure which, when looked at
too long, gives one a sort of
erotic vertigo. She had smart
black hair and poppy-colored
lips.
William hailed a taxi. Amaz-
ingly it stopped and we all piled
into the back-seat. William put
his arm around Jean. With an
inward sigh I put my arm around
Alice. She was nettled by
William’s transfer of favors;
nevertheless, she rested her hand,
with sisterliness, on my knee.
Jean arranged William’s arm
around her neck and shoulders
as if it were a comfortable but
slightly disordered fox-fur.
“Jim’s, brother,” said William.
“Jim’s coming right up,” said
the driver.
“And away ,we go,” said I.
The brilliant wryness in my voice
fell flat like the sparkle in spilled
champagne.
T JNLIKE the walled-in, surrep-
titious place off George-
street, Jim’s was undisguisedly
open and'hail-fellow-well-met in
manner. It was a small old-
fashioned run-down house with
a pointed roof and a railed
veranda, separated from the
gravel-street by a paling-fence
with a wire-gate. It was ablaze
with lights. In an otherwise
gloomy, impoverished - looking
neighborhood of similar run-
down houses it was conspicuous,
A man stood on the veranda
transacting business like a
publican without the amenity of
a bar and not the least concerned
about the disadvantage. He was
huge and brisk and genial. A
big white shirt with sleeves
rolled-up was strapped against
his paunch by broad black
braces!
The scene was like the alive,
bright focal-point of some
blacked-out crazy labyrinth of
sluggish lanes and alleys turning
and squirming and crossing and
recrossing one another under the
shadows of numberless dead-
faced tenements. There were
three or four other cars there
when we arrived.
“You Jim?” said William on
reaching the veranda.
“Right first time,” said the
man in the shirt and braces
“How many do you want?”
“Two dozen.”
“That’ll be six quid, bag and
a blessing included.”
William glanced significantly
at me, and whimsically I delved
into my wallet and handed over
six brand-new hard-earned
crackling notes.
A heavy clinking sugar-bag
was passed across to us. The
transaction was completed,
I helped William carry the
“two dozen” out to the waiting
taxi. The driver opened the boot,
and we carefully laid the load
inside it on top of an old
mackintosh coat. “That’ll
cushion it a bit,” said the driver
sagely.
“We oughter have some
glasses. I’ll see William again,”
said William in deliberation.
“I can get some from my girl-
friend’s place,” contributed the
driver, divertingly.
“Excellent,” replied William,
donnishly, “Let’s go.”
npHE driver’s girl-friend’s place
A was the top flat of a two-
storied red-brick building in a
Bondi back-street. Stone stairs
poked out like an ugly grooved
tongue from the gaping entrance,
and led almost from the foot-
path straight to the first floor.
From the flat issued lights,
music and singing; a party was
in progress.
As we pulled-up the driver
punched the taxi’s horn. Its
sound, as if by remote-control,
opened a window and brought
the head and shoulders of a
young woman into view. She
peered for a while at the driver’s
figure emerging from the car, and
then called out to the room
behind her, “Sue. Oh, Soo-00.
Here’s your he-man”; then to
the street, “You’d better hurry,
George. She’s just about to be
seduced.”
George, grinning in confident
disbelief, bounded up the stairs,
closely followed by William.
Hilarity poured from the room
like a Niagara of high spirits.
Some of it seemed actually to
pour down the stone stairs when,
a while later, William and
George returned accompanied by
a slender - necked giggling
coquette in taffeta, holding
glasses, and an impeccably-
dressed young man wearing a
carnation.
“Meet Sue,” said William
expansively.
“I wonder who the David
Jones floor-walker is?” I
murmured to Jean.
“Silly, the seducer.” I felt
humbled by Jean’s savoir faire.
Sue and Arnold, the fellow
with the carnation, bundled
themselves into the front seat.
William hung his arm around
Jean again, George slammed his
door, Alice snuggled flatteringly
close to me, and the taxi leapt
away as if someone had whisked
a starting-barrier upwards from
in front of us.
“We’ll find a cosy bunker on
the golf-course,” said William
with an inflection that elevated
the remark to the status of a
command.
TN accordance with William’s
* taste, the bunker was cosy.
The mackintosh was spread out
to seat the ladies. The gentlemen
crouched on haunches round the
sugar-bag. The taxi stood, lights
out, a dim shape on the footpath
on the other side of the fairway.
Bottles popped and froth
flowed and glasses glinted and
clinked in George’s torchlight,
screened discreetly by a handker-
chief. George wooed Sue, Alice
intimated that any mild indiscre-
tions I might be contemplating
would be tolerated, and William
engaged Jean in the kind of
badinage designed to beguile and
to obtain a copyright of
undivided attention,
Jean, however, maintained an
aloofness, for the benefit osten-
sibly of Arnold, who clung
tenaciously to the superior airs
of a floor-walker or a feature-
writer or a wine-steward. The
pose impressed Jean ; she became
more lilting of voice and more
lofty of eyebrow the further the
party progressed.
Arnold delicately and linger-
ingly placed his hand on Jean’s
smart and gabardined shoulder.
Another man, so opposed, might
have endeavored to better his
rival by putting his arm round
the lady’s waist. But not
William. The matter needed
elucidation, without debate.
William hit Arnold. He hit
him in a detached manner, with-
out venom or rancor, as one
would swat a fly that was getting
in the way. It was a neat precise
blow on the chin. It spread-
eagled the recipient in astonish-
ment rather than in pain across
the bunker. Bottles and glasses
scattered.
“Don’t poach,” said William in
admonitory but amiable tones
and sat closer to Jean.
Arnold was dumbfounded. He
sat up where he had been
knocked down, and with a kind
of abstract dismay began
REGATTA DAY
TASMANIA,
Remember the cut and blaze of wild yachts
in the tall sea-breeze on the choppy river,
the blowing sails, the brown-armed girls,
all caught in the swirl of color and sound
those laughing summer afternoons
as loud as the waltzing merry-go-round.
All down the green and rocking calm
blazed the white of rolling yachts;
the girls were willing we soon forgot
while the horses jumped with wooden laughter,
merry-go-round and sailing fury
all wild and white and loud and merry
those windy racing yellow days
when we were young, as young as praise.
Sail down these thoughts of afternoon;
find harbor in those happy days.
I’m with the rolling windy yachts,
I’m with my brown and willing girl,
a two of a crowd in a dust of fury
with yachts and stalls and jumping horses
hot and lost and loud and merry.
VIVAN SITH.


C.S.R. Co. ’# Report
Points from Chairman’s address to Shareholders
• Australian raw sugar industry produces
record crop.
• C.S.R. Co.’s Mills in Australia and Fiji
produce record outputs of raw sugar.
• C.S.R. Co.’s sales of sugar products in
Australia and N.Z. still below 1952 record.
• Sales of C.S.R. building materials higher
than last year and future prospects good.
In his address to Shareholders of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited,
the Chairman (Mr. E. R. Knox) said that
Australian raw sugar production of 1,213,
000 tons for 1953 was a record. C.S.R.’s
7 Australian Mills contributed a record
235,800 tons to this output, the Company’s
proportion of the total Australian produc-
tion remaining approximately the same as
pre-war. (The C.S.R. Co. owns 7of the 34
Australian raw sugar mills.)
Mr. Knox said that pros-
pects for 1954 in Queens-
land were good and that the
1953 record may be ex-
ceeded; this applies both to
the Company’s Mills and to
Queensland as a whole.
PRODUCTION CONTROLS
IN QUEENSLAND
The end is in sight, Mr.
Knox said, of the phase of
planned expansion in the
Queensland raw sugar in-
dustry.
This development was
based on the greater post-
war home consumption
market and the increased
export market available as
a result primarily of the
British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement, now confirmed
by the International Sugar
Agreement. Starting with
the 1955 season, it seems
certain that each mill and
its growers will have to
control output to the peak
or quota assigned to them.
The £5,000,000 expan-
sion programme of the
Company’s Queensland Mills
has been designed to pro-
vide adequate, but not ex-
cessive capacity for the
quotas assigned to the
Company.
FIJI
Our 5 mills in Fiji made
190.000 tons of raw sugar
in the 1953 season, the
highest output yet reached
in the Colony.
REFINED SUGAR
IN AUSTRALIA
For the year ended 31st
March, 1954, sales from
our Australian refineries
were 460,000 tons com-
pared with 439,000 tons in
the previous year and
534.000 tons in 1952.
We are continuing with
the programme of expan-
sion of all our refineries in
order to keep a prudent
margin of capacity over
demand.
NEW ZEALAND
Total sales from our
refinery at Auckland for the
year were 96,000 tons, an
increase of 15% over the
previous year and 23%
over the pre-war level.
DISTILLERIES
An improved supply of
molasses, the raw material
for our two distilleries, has
resulted from the expansion
in the raw sugar industry.
Demand for industrial alco-
hol has been well main-
tained but rum sales are
still low.
BUILDING MATERIALS
DIVISION
The value of sales of our
building materials was 18%
higher than for the previous
year.
The building industry
has recovered from the
severe recession of eighteen
months ago and the rate at
which new homes are being
built in Australia is now
19.000 per quarter, com-
pared with the peak rate of
22.000 in 1951. For the
first time since the war,
office and commercial build-
ings are being erected in
most States. The sales pros-
pects for the current year
are good.
Copies of the Company’s
Annual Report, includ-
ing the full text of the
Chairman’s Address to
Shareholders, are avail-
able on application to
the Head Office of the
Company, 1 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
C.S.R. CHEMICALS
PTY. LTD.
Sales of most chemicals
marketed by C.S.R. Chemi-
cals Pty. Ltd., in which this
Company has a 60% in-
terest, snowed a progressive
increase throughout the past
twelve months. Sales of
cellulose acetate flake, how-
ever, have not yet reached
expectations.
Dividends and Inflation
C.S.R. Co. Chairman, Mr. E. R. Knox,
told shareholders that since the immediate
pre-war period goods and services provided
by the C.S.R. Company, measured in £s,
almost trebled; but the total amount of divi-
dends measured in £g has increased by only
one half.
Mr. Knox said: "For several
years this company and
others have been stressing the
limitations o£ conventional
accounting methods in
periods of inflation. There-
fore, it is encouraging that
the Australian Chartered Ac-
countants Research Society
is giving this matter close
consideration. The Research
Society recently raised the
following for consideration:
*“A number of business-
men, economists and ac-
countants maintain that
profits computed in ac-
cordance with principles
heretofore generally ac-
cepted (i.e., principles
which disregard changing
money values) are mis-
leading to management,
shareholders, employees,
wage fixing tribunals and
all levels of Government,
also that such profits play
a significant part in ac-
centuating booms and de-
pressions.’
“We hope the account-
ancy profession, to which
business looks for guidance
in such matters, will make
progress with this problem.
Although inflation has been
slowed down and a degree
of stability now exists, the
effects continue to be felt
by business and share-
holders.
“Our annual report in-
cludes a graph dealing with
the company’s total sales
revenue and dividends.
Gross receipts from sales are
affected by many things
which vary from time to
time, and one would not ex-
pect dividends to move pre-
cisely in line with sales
revenue. Nevertheless our
sales revenue is an import-
ant indication of our cur-
rent contribution to the
communities in which we
operate, and the dividends
are the shareholders’ cur-
rent reward for this contri-
bution and enterprise. Al-
though there has been a
significant increase in the
volume of goods and ser-
vices provided by the com-
pany, inflation since the
war has been responsible
for a large part of the in-
crease in sales revenue. It
has not been possible to
make a compensating in-
crease in dividends. Since
the immediate pre - war
period, goods and services
provided by the company,
measured in £s, have almost
trebled; but the total
amount of dividends
measured in £s has in-
creased by only pne-half.
"Amongst the factors de-
pressing dividends are two
which stem directly from
inflation: the necessity to
make much greater provi-
sion for meeting high re-
placement costs of plant
and buildings, and high
taxation levied without re-
gard for this necessity.
“There are people who
contend that profits, how-
ever low, can be diverted
into various channels away
from the owners of the
business by using the many
controls and authorities
that exist in our country.
“In my opinion, the
truth is that shareholders
generally have already con-
tributed more than their
share for such purposes.
“I believe that to a great
extent this has occurred
because the fall in the
value of money has been
largely disregarded by pub-
lic and official opinion
where profits and divi-
dends are concerned, al-
though it has not been so
disregarded when wages or
the revenue needs of
government have been un-
der consideration.
“Some people also criti-
cise profits and dividends
whenever the amount of
money seems large. The
national income of Austra-
lia appears a very large sum
until considered in the light
of the great resources from
which it comes, the number
of people it has to provide
for, and the lower value of
the £. Our company’s divi-
dend may appear superfici-
ally a large amount, but
having regard to the total
business done, the assets
employed, the number of
shareholders and the lower
value of the £, it is not
large.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. LtcL
Total sales revenue
and dividends
£80,000,000 4
£70.000.000--
£60.000.000--
£50,000.000 --
£40.000.000
£30.000.000
£20.000.000
£10.000.000
£5,000.000
DIVIDENDS |
aA
y\j
f TOTAL SALES OR GOODS AND SERVICES
Sales:
Dividends:
PREWAR
average for
1937-38-39
£27.320,052
£853,125
LAST 3 YEARS
average for
1952-53-54
£78,867.263
£1.216.800
This diagram compares dividends received by
shareholders with the Company's total reve-
nue. The figures for total revenue from sales
of goods and services include investment
income.
rearranging the disordered bottles
and glasses.
“So you are a floor-walker,”
I thought.
Jean was affronted by the
vulgarity of the event and not a
little piqued that she should have
been the cause of it. From that
instant she treated William with
unveiled disdain. George put
his arm protectingly round Sue.
William, sensing the permanent
nature of Jean’s disfavor, closed
the party down.
He tugged Arnold to his feet
with a courteous inquiry about
the condition of his chin, as if
he were asking after the well-
being of someone who had inad-
vertently stubbed his toe. Then
he collected the empty bottles in
the sugar-bag and made his way
at an uneven keel across the
course towards the dim outline of
the car. Studiously trying to keep
a keel less uneven, we followed.
Once again, the taxi lurched
forward along a road made
faintly eerie by a slight but
indelible mist.
“Town Hall station, brother,”
ordered William.
“Town Hall coming up,”
answered George.
'THE taxi swerved into the
A Park - street kerb at
Bebarfald’s and pulled-up with a
little mechanical squeal. The
Town Hall clock showed ten-
minutes to two. William, Alice,
Jean, Arnold and I scrambled
out. Goodbyes sounded all
round. The bunker incident was
forgotten. Alice linked her arm
in mine, and William, holding
his sugar-bag with a proprietary
air, said with a less proprietary
air to Jean, “Coming along?”
“This is where I got on —
brother,” replied Jean in the
same husky voice, leavened with
a superb upper-class animosity.
William shrugged and grinned.
His crooked nose quivered as if
not knowing in which direction
to spread itself. It compromised
by moving in a rubbery dis-
tension almost everywhere.
George, leaning forward from
the driving-wheel, remarked,
“You owe me a quid.”
The remark mangled William’s
nose into an expression of
amazed malignancy. Speechless,
he gestured upwards with a
vulgar but imperial thumb. The
sugar-bag clinked at the motion.
“I’m letting you off light,” said
George, unperturbed. “The
meter’s reading thirty-bob.” He
chuckled and Sue joined in. The
joke was a huge one.
“Pay the swine,” William said
to me, “and let’s get out of here
before I paste him.”
I tossed a pound into the taxi.
The joke, and the scene, had a
disenchanting potential. I am
always prepared to concede a
point—or a pound—if resistance
is likely to entail too much
personal inconvenience. William
and Alice and I abruptly left.
Arnold and Jean had already
departed. They were now merely
two shadowy figures shaking off
Bebarfald’s corner quite peremp-
torily by walking primly as they
could up Park-street towards the
lesser ignobility of Elizabeth-
street.
The taxi moved off. William
spat, with accuracy and discri-
mination, to the toe of his shoe,
grinding his distaste underfoot.
The three of us hurried under-
ground, and, rushing on to the
platform, were just in time to
board a train pulling-out. The
train stopped as soon as it crossed
the bridge, at North Sydney, and
showed no inclination to go
farther.
TT was while we were waiting
for another, “through,” train
that I hit William. My reasons
were incontestable. Although
William had enlisted Alice in the
first place, he had invalidated
any claim upon her by his sub-
sequent preoccupation with the
more refined and unapproachable
Jean.
Alice, abandoned, had found
solace in me —an arrangement I
thoroughly enjoyed. In view of
my initial failure at the dance-
hall, I felt at last an unqualified
success. I felt, too, some small
superiority over William; it
(Seemed a measure of repayment
for the money I had outlayed on
his behalf.
Consequently, when William
tried to take it, and Alice, away
from me, I objected. Alice also
objected. This emboldened me.
William endeavored to obtain an
affectionate but forceful neck-
hold on Alice, so I spun him
round and planted my fist more
by luck than judgment on his
Adam’s apple. He staggered
back, and disappeared below the
level of the platform. Just as he
fell, the platform-light indicated
that a train was coming.
Unthinkingly I jumped down
after him on to the line to help
him back and twisted my foot,
Alice shouted, “Why don’t you
leave him there?” That was
ungenerous of Alice.
“I can’t. He owes me too
much money,” I yelled and stood
up and fell down again.
William rose to his feet as the
lights of the train swung round
the bend. Then he did an extra-
ordinary thing. He fell upon me,
savagely, like a wild beast about
to devour its tormentor in the
face of new and terrible hazards
closing in. I screamed, Alice
screamed and the train sounded
its horn. Brakes squealed
frantically and William bawled
in my ear, “Lie still, you
idiot.”
I lost his epithet in tumbling
hypothesis. The hypothesis itself
was lost in din and darkness as
the train rattled and roared over
us. It came to a screeching halt
that sounded like all the fiends in
hell voraciously swarming around
two new arrivals, appetisingly
pickled. Our rigidity, however,
and our harrowed souls were not
so symptomatic of death and
purgatory as the fiends surmised.
Disappointed, they vanished.
Their screeches were replaced
by shouts, Alice’s muffled sob-
bing voice, running footsteps, a
fossicking light and the vibration
of undercarriages above our
heads. We lay in quiescent
anguish in the ditch between the
platform-wall and the rails, with
the train above us.
William, on top of me, began
to swear. He swore with a heat
and thoroughness. He was still
swearing when we were extri-
cated and placed like two rescued
miners on the platform.
The first thing he did was to
retrieve his sugar-bag from near
the station-fountain. “Three-
pence a bottle here, brother,”,he
said solemnly. Alice clutched a
torn handkerchief and wept on
his shoulder.
The touching sight mortified
me. Bitterness assailed me like a
cruel dyspepsia.
I left them, and with my last
pound-note bought a taxi-ride
back to my lodgings. William,
with his vacillating Alice, some-
where probably saw the dawn
come up on a hazy day.
I slept.
I dreamed of merry-go-rounds
with horses that resembled
centaurs, all with William’s head
and crooked nose, eating ray
pound-notes out of nose-bags
suspiciously reminiscent of sugar-
bags. Every now and then they
hiccupped Where they should
have whinnied. On their tweed-
covered backs they bore Alices
and Jeans and Soo-oos and
Georges and upright, impeccable
Arnolds. I paid for the rides
and played merry-go-round
gramophones whose records
turned on train-wheels and
wheezed out, “One, two, three
and away we go,” in quickstep-
time.
I never saw William again.


<m§
By Appointment By Appointment By Appointment
to H.M. King to H.M. King to H.M. King
George VI Frederik IX Gustaf V
By Appointment
to H.M. the
Queen of the
Netherlands
Cherry Heeling
im
v a
K
m
j-
Denmark’s Liqueur Delight since ISIS.
All your guests will enjoy it
anytime!
Round off your dinner with Cherry
Heering—an old liqueur delight from
Denmark which all guests enjoy. Made
with unchanged formula for four
generations by the Heering family in
Copenhagen . . . and patronised by
royalty. Serve chilled.
A most distinctive
dessert . Try it I
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W.
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M.DOUOLA •
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Man g
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Cen
HÒORA? FOR LAROLINE
By
JIM McCARTER
CAROLINE Norbray toyed
with her serviette-ring and
looked speculatively after
the lanky, active, uncoated
figure of Mr. Batterseley, the
manager of Kangaroo station,
as he crossed the floor on his
way from the dining-room. Her
forehead was wide and calm,
the brown eyebrows set a trifle
too close for loveliness, but the
grey eyes which watched the
executive were still outstandingly
beautiful. When Batterseley
disappeared, allowing the mos-
quito-proof door to slam after
him, Caroline turned to her
husband, Archie, across the
table. He was grinning and
nodding as though he knew what
to expect.
“You might well smile, my
indulgent friend,” said Caroline
in exaggerated dulcet tones,
folding her serviette and pushing
it into the silver ring with which
she had been fidgeting.
“What’s wrong now?” asked
Archie Norbray with mock
peevishness.
“I think Mr. Batterseley
takes too much for granted. He’s
overbearing.”
She rested her elbows on the
table and cupped her chin in
hands that had been carefully
groomed. “I believe he thinks
you work for him and not he
for you. That’s what we get
for living in the city, going
abroad every three or four
years, and leaving Kangaroo in
other hands.”
“Perhaps he does think he’s
boss,” agreed her husband with
a shrug, leaning back in his
chair. Forty-eight, of medium
build, clean-shaven, sun-tanned,
with a rugged face, brown eyes,
and a kindly smile that had
fascinated Caroline from the
moment they had first met,
Norbray was a wealthy pastoral-
ist. When he had proposed to
Caroline he had said: “Your
eyes and me would get along
famously through life .., let’s
get married.” The marriage had
worked out as he had prognos-
ticated, two children, a girl and
boy, making the union almost
ideal.
“I always thought you were
resolute,” said Caroline with a
poor attempt at severity. She
rose and went to the double,
netted doors overlooking a
creek now drenched with early-
morning sunshine. “But you’re
not. You allow that man to
dominate you.”
“I allowed you to talk me
into coming here for three
weeks,” said Archie dryly.
“As though you didn’t want
to come,” she retorted,
smilingly, then continued:
“Seriously, Archie, Mr. Batter-
seley is a bit of a trial. I really
thought the housekeeper would
pour the plate of .cereal down
his neck at breakfast. If he had
been as rude to me as he was to
Mrs. Salmon, I would have given
it to him, believe me.”
Norbray joined his wife and
put an arm around her waist.
“I must admit, Batterseley
is boorish. He’s worried me a
lot since we’ve been holidaying
here. But he is a very capable
manager ... very.”
“I wonder,” said his wife
doubtfully. “If he is, why have
so many of the old hands
gone? When we were here four
years ago, there were Billy
Seymour, the butcher, Basil
Wymouth, the blacksmith, and
old 1 Mick Minogue, the
boundary-rider at the south
end. They were all old
employees, Archie, And why
did Mr, Main the overseer leave
in such a hurry?”
“I’d like to know,” said
Norbray.
“Mrs. Salmon told me that
men have been coming and
going for a couple of years. Few
stay long. She was going to say
something about Mr. Main’s
departure, but didn’t.”
“Mrs. Salmon’s a gossiper,”
replied her husband tersely.
“Anyhow, what’s she got to
complain about? "She’s been
here eight years or more ...
longer than Batterseley ... and
and can go to town to see
her relatives every weekend if
she wants to. Transport pro-
vided ! Maybe Batterseley’s
style doesn’t suit her. He’s not
a man to stand still.” He eyed
her carefully as he paused.
“We’re doing all right, aren’t
we?”
“Oh, wd’re doing marvell-
ously, darling. But we mightn’t
if Kangaroo got a bad name,
and men refused to come here to
work. It could happen,
couldn’t it?”
“Of course it could happen,”
he said soberly, as Caroline
opened dhe swing-doors and
pulled him into the sunlit
garden in front of the spacious
veranda.
leaned on the
garden fence and gazed
down the creek.
“When I was’ a kid, here,”
he said reminiscently, with a
warmth that Caroline had
sought to fan during the past
few months, “the old man used
to say that station-owners often
suffered for the sins committed
by some of their top-line
employees. He reckoned the
worst boss was the understrapper
who had been raised unexpect-
edly to a high, trusted post, on
a good salary, and aped being
something he wasn’t. . . like
Batterseley, perhaps.”
He watched a flock of pelicans
sweep in and land on the surface
of the creek, and sighed. “But
we seem to need the Batterseley
type,” he continued half-
apologetically, “otherwise we
might go bankrupt. I’m too
soft with men. I’d probably be
a failure if we lived here again
and I tried to run Kangaroo.
Guess we have spent too much
time running about the world,
one way and another, as you
said inside.
Caroline thought she detected
a yearning in the self-adminis-
tered admonition.
“Nonsense” she said quickly.
“You’d still be here if you hadn’t
got the silly notion . . . oh, I’m
guilty t 00... that we had to
transfer to the city in order to
give the kids a better education.
That literally meant our retire-
ment from station life, didn’t
it? Fancy us retiring as young
as we were! No,” she said
firmly, “you’re only trying to
protect Mr. Batterseley.”
“Perhaps, if he were married,”
he began, when he was inter-
rupted.
“That’s a vicious suggestion,”
said Caroline, smiling. “A
woman would leave him in a
week, just as speedily as I
expect you to lose all your
employees one of these fine
days.”
“Don’t say such a horrible
thing,” he said gravely. “Men
don’t grow on trees. You’re too
hard on Batterseley.”
“He wants bossing... or
sacking.” She gave him a swift
look to see how far she could
go for the moment, then turned
her eyes to the creek. “Why
don’t you come back ... live here
again? I’d love it.”
“Don’t be ridiculous,” he
snapped, almost crossly. “We’re
too comfortably settled in the
city. Another thing, the
children...”
“We don’t know our children
properly,” she cut in with
feeling. “We went to the city
so that they could be educated,
and live at home... so’s we
could have their company.
Instead, we put them in a
boarding-school because some-
one or other decided years before
we were born that it was right
for people in our position to
send them there!” She caught
her breath and added quietly,
and not without feminine
cunning: “But I suppose
you’re right about city life. It
does spoil one... especially
when there would be a Mr.
Batterseley to contend with here.
Or would there be?”
“You talk absolute rot,”
grunted Archie as they returned
indoors.
For the moment Caroline let
it rest at that. But she knew
that she had set her husband
thinking and that she had ex-
pressed something which he had
been hinting for years. A little
more coaxing, the right spur,
and they might be back at
Kangaroo as a family.
MOST of the day Archie
drove his wife about the
property. He knew every
square inch of the sixty-thousand
acres within its netted boundary,
having lived on the place as a
boy, with his parents. It was a
splendidly improved station,
covered with Mitchell-grass
mainly, though there were a
few isolated patches of thick
scrub.
A minor detraction was the
busy stock-route which cut
across one corner of the
run, near the homestead.
In other years, this main
road had caused his father
concern in drought-time be-
cause some cattle- and sheep-
drovers as well as local teamsters,
had surreptitiously cut the wire-
netted boundary-fence at night,
made an opening, and driven-
in their personal stock to feed
on the grasses of Kangaroo.
Archie’s father and Archie him-
self had never taken action
against the tresspassers because
they knew that the majority of
the nocturnal grass-thieves were
good fellows, hard pressed to
keep their working-stock alive,
and who, with few exceptions,
patched the fences well, after
taking out their bullocks or
horses at sunrise.
Norbray senior had overcome
the difficulty bit by bit by
telling the local teamsters that
they could turn their animals
into his paddocks when camped
at night near Kangaroo, pro-
vided they used the gates, in-
stead of cutting the fence ...
a gesture which was quickly
appreciated.
“The old man always
reckoned it was stupid to be
arbitrary in such matters,”
Archie told Caroline as they
drove along. “It was much
more neighborly to allow them
to use the stock-route paddocks
for a night and certainly did
not incite revengeful tendencies.
A little more tact might have
saved the paddocks of people
we know from going up in
smoke.” He made a wry face.
“I suppose they still put in
their working horses at night,
sometimes,” said Caroline
absently.
“We can afford losing a bit
of grass,” he said; then
rattled on in a manner Caroline
knew and always encouraged.
“Look at wool prices! Fan-
tastic! But I like it. We’ll be
able to do more improvements
and put on men.” He watched
a rough patch on the road
carefully, then went on. “Next
year, we’ll put in kerosene-
refrigerators in all boundary-
riders’ huts, and we’ll install
septics in all homestead
quarters.”
Caroline couldn’t resist the
temptation to interject.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if
you didn’t own Kangaroo next
year, if Mr. Batterseley’s still
in residence,” she commented
tartly, then rushed on before
he could interrupt. ‘'Next year,
our oldest will be twenty
and he hasn’t the foggiest notion
what you want him to be.”
He quizzed her profile quickly.
“I like that,” he muttered.
“What / want him to be! I
thought it was to be medicine.
Doctor John Norbray?”
“Someone put that idea into
his head. I didn’t. But John
doesn’t want to be a doctor.”
She watched the fire-plough
track rush towards them as
they sped onwards, then ex-
claimed ; “He wants to come out
here... to Kangaroo.”
Norbray made no effort to
disguise his doubtful look.
“Oh, yes he does.” Caroline
put an urgent right hand on his
left arm. “Why shouldn’t he?
It’s in the blood. Your grand-
father and mine helped pioneer
this western country.”
“So they did,” he exclaimed
with an exaggerated smirk and
wink.
“Be serious,” said Caroline.
“Maybe, it’s because they did,
that I simply hate the thought
of pioneers’ decendants selling
their land to people who have
been merely a few minutes in
the country, by comparison.”
“Are you lecturing me?” he
asked, grinning broadly.
“No.”
“Then you’re a smug little
devil, or a reincarnated
Caroline Chisholm.”
“I don’t think I’m smug, and
I’m not Caroline Chisholm.
I simply want our children to
hold the land, that’s all. They
won’t, nor will other people’s if
they continue to live in the city,
like we do, Mr. Norbray.”
Caroline waved a cavalier
hand: “Home James, at once
sir, for four-o’clock smoke-oh
. . . I’m dying for my afternoon
cup of tea.”
Obediently, he turned the car
for the homestead.
AFTER smoke - oh Archie
Norbray and his manager
Duncan Batterseley, sat on the
homestead veranda looking to-
wards the stock-route. They
could see a column of dust
rising in the wake of the bi-
weekly mailman as he drove his
motor-truck inland. In front
of the store-building, the book-
keeper, Andrew Walkinson, and
the jackeroo, Walter Fairholm,
were discussing the qualities of
a new sheep-dog which Fairholm
had purchased and which had


just been delivered by the mail-
man at the station gate on the
main road.
“Young Fairholm is a likely
chap,” declared Norbray,
appraising the tall, slightly-built
jackeroo. “A good worker, I
should say, and knows stock.
His father was a fine man.”
“He’s got a lot to learn,”
muttered Batterseley ungra-
ciously. In his middle thirties,
he looked much older. His
chisel-shaped, chin was hard,
the skin drawn tightly over the
jawbone, giving him a mean
look. His deep-set eyes were
light-blue and expressionless,
and his harsh voice grated on
Norbray.
“We all have a lot to learn
one way and another,” Archie
said somewhat disconcertedly.
“Nevertheless, I had planned
to give Fairholm a chance as
overseer when Charlie Main
left. But I didn’t expect
Charlie to go so quickly. What
do you think, Batterseley?”
“I wouldn’t,” came the
almost surly response. “He’s
not hard enough with men.
Wastes time when he needn’t.”
Norbray just couldn’t fathom
Batterseley. The man simply
made no effort to be tactful,
as if he resented Archie’s
presence. After all, Batterseley
didn’t own the place, even
though he had a remarkably
free hand. It was on the tip of
Norbray’s tongue to give the
manager a sharp reply, when he
saw two men walking up the
road from the stock-route,
towards the house.
“Couple of strangers coming,”
he said, pointing down the track.
The newcomers were young,
about the same height, and
dressed in light khaki riding
trousers and shirts. Both wore
wide hats, and had colored hand-
kerchiefs about their necks. As
they stopped in front of the men
on the veranda, Norbray
thought them very alike, clean,
well set-up youngsters in their
early twenties, not much older
than his own son.
One stepped forward and
addressed Batterseley.
“Any jobs going?”
“You fellers don’t want work,”
retorted the manager belliger-
ently, almost startling Norbray,
who saw the man stiffen. It was
incomprehensible, because at
least four men were wanted at
Rangaroo.
“I want a job right
enough... in fact, two. One
for me, one for my brother,
here.” The words came coolly,
but not insolently, from the
young man, who smiled pleas-
antly.
“There’s no work for either of
you,” said the manager rudely.
“Aw. So that’s th’ way it
is?” The young spokesman
rubbed his chin and pushed his
hat back on his head. ‘“Well,
can we put our hacks in your
horse-paddock tonight? The
stock-route’s about eaten out.
Well hobble our nags so’s they
won’t mix with the station
horses. We’re camping on th’
creek tonight and will ride home
to-morrow.”
“No,” Batterseley still spoke
in staccato, unfriendly tones.
“If I let yours in, I’ll have to
let in the lot.”
Norbray felt his anger rising.
While he wanted to uphold the
manager’s policy, with reser-
vations, he felt that Batterseley’s
manner was needlessly bump-
tious.
A set look came into the
young man’s eyes.
“Good-oh.” The stranger half-
turned, about to go. “You’re a
good sport, aren’t you? Well,
so long. Come on, Barney,” he
called to his brother. “Let’s
move along.”
Norbray waited until they
were out of earshot.
“Was it necessary to be
so . . , er . . . brusque, Batter-
seley?” he asked.
“With them, yes,” came the
blunt, unrelenting rejoinder.
“I haven’t seen them for a couple
of years or so, but I know ’em
all right. Their father’s a
teamster in town and one of
the biggest grass-thieves in this
district.” His lips split into a
sneering grin as he faced the
other man. “Those two think
they’re going to be smart. To-
night, when everyone’s in bunk,
I’ll bet they’ll put their horses
into the horse-paddock, and
collect them before dawn. If
they’re lucky,” he added under
his breath,
IyrEXT morning at breakfast,
' Norbray decided to visit the
stockyards to see the boundary-
riders and musterers leave on
their day’s journey to different
parts of the station. There were
cattle to be gathered, and he
expected fireworks when some
of the horsemen mounted their
fresh steeds ; he never tired of
watching skilled riders on
board bad-tempered buck-
jumpers in the early morning.
As he neared the high-railed
enclosure where thick dust rose
he saw the two strangers of the
previous afternoon, back-on,
talking vigorously to Batterseley.
The young men held a bridle
each.
As he joined the group, he
heard the manager say:
“I told you, you can’t have
them, and that’s flat.”
“What’s wrong?” asked
Archie, sensing trouble.
“These jokers turned their
horses into the horse-paddock
last night after I said they
couldn’t,” snarled Batterseley.
“The horse-boy ran them up
with the station horses before
breakfast.” He spat on the
ground. “I’ve told them if they
pay a pound a head on the
horses for trespassing, and for
damage,” he grinned at the last
word, “they can have their
mokes. Not unless.”
Norbray couldn’t quite re-
member the law. He thought
that horses could be impounded
in town and that property-
owners had some right to seize
on their own land when tres-
passers were found, but he
wasn’t sure.
“We’re not squealing at being
caught,” said the young man
who had done all the speaking
the day before. “It’s th’ way
it was done that’s not so good.
Someone musta watched us
hobble our horses last night,
then took off the hobbles after
we went back to the camp.
Whoever it was, put a chain
on the stock-route gate in case
by some miracle in the dark,
we were able t’ catch our horses
in the open paddock, and tried
to slip away with them.”
There was no mistaking the
sarcastic pitch of his voice.
“I think this bloke did it.”
The younger brother spoke for
the first time as he jerked an
expressive thumb towards the
manager. He had nice, even
teeth and intelligent eyes,
Norbray thought.
“Don’t be so cheeky,”
growled Batterseley.
“I’m not cheeky . . . just
tellin’ you what I think,” shot
back the young fellow.
“I still say you’re cheeky,”
said Batterseley. “You’re just
like your old man. He’s too
cheeky.”
“You mean he’s too good for
you, boss,” exclaimed the
young man warmly. “You just
can’t get over the old man
getting permission from the
overseer, Mr. Main, who was
here, to run his bullocks in the
horse-paddock one night, can
you? And you’re still sore at
the belting Mr. Main gave you
before he cleared out, when you
tried to make it rough on him
for givin’ Dad permission; an’
you’re taking it out on us.”
Norbray was astounded. So
that was why Main had left in
a hurry. The manager took a
threatening step towards the
younger brother.
“You’re a liar,” cried
Batterseley.
“Don’t call me a liar, or I’ll
hit you right in the teeth,”
’growled the younger man.
“Aw, shut up, Barney,”
warned his companion.
Norbray drew the manager
aside, worried by the trend of
events.
“I think you’d better let them
have their horses, Batterseley,”
he said in undertone, restraining
himself, “This station will get
a bad name if we’re too hard.”
■pvUNCAN Batterseley’s eyes
U flared with anger as his
reply came pouring from him.
“All right, give them their
horses, and show me up! But
you’ll need another manager.”
“Don’t be silly, man. There’s
no occasion to talk about
resigning just because I suggest
giving the men back their
horses.”
“Well, I won’t hand them
over. God’s truth,” he punched
his right fist into the opposite
palm in rage, “and I went to the
trouble of waiting down near
the stock-route gate at mid-
night, until they put in their
horses and let them go.”
Norbray looked at him in a
new light. He was getting sick
of Batterseley.
“Did you take their hobbles?”
he asked quietly.
“Of course. I took their
horses, too, didn’t I?”
Archie groaned inwardly.
It was humiliating to think that
his manager would stoop to such
small-time tactics, like an insig-
nificant chicken-farmer waiting
in the dark for a raiding fox.
It did not seem right that
Batterseley should have waited
for the young men to put their
horses into the paddock, taken
off the hobbles, chained the
gate, and looked forward to a
morning’s encounter, possibly
because of hard feeling between
the young men’s father and
himself. If the manager had
wanted to keep the horses out,
he could have chained the gate
before the animals were released
in the paddock . , . even that
action would not have been in
keeping with the Rangaroo
tradition of his father’s day.
Norbray came out of his
mental probing. “Give them
their horses,” he ordered
suddenly.
“You heard what I said about
needing another manager,
Mr. Norbray,” reminded
Batterseley in a voice shaking
with temper.
“Give them their horses, you
bloody fool!” exclaimed Archie
angrily.
Instead of complying, the
manager wheeled about and
strode towards the homestead
residence,
]V[ORBRAY went back to the
young men. Flustered by
his brush with Batterseley, he
still wondered why, if the
brothers had known of the
manager’s bad reputation, they
had ridden out from town to
a station now obviously with an
unsavory name, in search of
work.
“Yesterday, you asked for
jobs,” he said, addressing the
older brother. “Did you hear
we were wanting men?”
“Yairs, we did,” came the
drawled response. “You see,” he
explained, “Barney an’ I’ve
been away from home for a
couple of years. We came down
from the Territory last week
with a mob of cattle, an’ our
old man in town reckoned we
ought to get work near home,
for a while, as th’ old lady
hasn’t been too well. Dad said
we should try out here, so we
rode out.”
Norbray was not quite satis-
fied. “Didn’t you think it would
be hard to get a job on Rangaroo
when there had been trouble
over your father’s bullocks?”
asked Archie. “You’re brother
here said the overseer had
left because of a row?”
“The old man thought about,
that, too, but Mum said she’d
heard Mr. Batterseley mightn’t
be stayin’ long.”
“What’s that?” Archie could
not subdue his surprise,
“That’s what Mum heard,”
said the older brother defen-
sively. “Her cousin is cook
here . . . she’s Mrs. Salmon , . .
and she told Mum a couple of
weeks ago when she was in
town for th’ weekend. She
reckoned Mr. Batterseley might
be going soon.”
“Did she,” murmured Archie
sarcastically. “And how would
Mrs. Salmon know?”
“Search me.”
Norbray had an inspiration.
Caroline! Caroline must have
been thinking aloud to Mrs.
Salmon. Bush - telegraph had
o Continued on page 30)
VARIOUS VERSE
THREE PERSONALITIES
Old Simon the dead. He lies in a chill
frost of glass. Hidden deep in the earth.
Free from all seasons. In peace at last.
Riddle of life held tight to his breast.
No mere tale-teller or spinner of
hoary lines gone green from the telling.
Ivan the living. Who swung his axe
at the giant. He drank his fill in
the sweet cool of the long sea-drenched
nights and cocked his ears to the song
of the maid from the powder-blue
mountains and chucked her pretty chin.
And I the unknown. The spirit. The
flame in the sky. It is I who walk
alone in the shadows of the night’s
outer dark where only shadows dwell.
I who follow the undiscovered
ways down the strange paths of history.
They wait at the crossings of the years.
The dead. The living. And the unknown.
QUEENSLAND.
KEVIN McAULIƑE.
GIRL FROM GUSAP
Cooma was bearing a bag of yams on her
head.
It seemed she was moulded of clay
By a man who dreamed what shape a girl
might be
And worked his life away
To fashion her sixteen years of astound-
ing grace
And mantle-folds of light
That rustled across her sinewed chocolate
back
And breasts upeurved and tight.
From her toes through calves and flowing
thighs
Ran such a movement supple,
I longed to loose her red-stained kunai
skirt
To watch the final ripple.
Well she knew. She said she bathed that
morning
In a rock-disordered river
That bumped as rough and rude and un-
caring wild
As her wayward native lover.
Frankly she reached to strip her skirt for
me.
I had to turn away.
I’m a farmer who loves the feel of earth
in his hands
But I do not sow in clay.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
FLOWERING BLOODWOODS
There is a wave you cannot see
And it goes foaming over the ridge
From bloodwood tree to bloodwood tree
Splashing the mountains tall and huge.
The wave, the wave, how fiery sweet,
Like melted songs of mountain thrushes,
Like searing dew, like burning creeks,
It swirls around me as it rushes,
To leave that flowering edge of foam
Tossed high upon the skyline where
Still glittering when the wave goes home
The creamy blossoms cool in air.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
MORNING SONG
At country-time when day lets fali
its web of frost to hold the ground,
and from the trees the magpies call
the sun to dance its dazzling round;
at morning-light when sky sings blue
as south-coast sea or blue-bell cup,
and brilliant in each drop of dew
the world is turned both down and up;
at that new-time when grass seems bright
as daisy-cluster, penny found,
and leaf of tree against the light
sends glancing eye to sparkling ground;
at such a time with day still long,
with glistening frost as winter’s part,
the light delights contenting song
to echo-chambers of the heart,
and all the shining day is held
both here and here as token of
the newness of eternal world,
the young and singing truth of love.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
DEW AND SUNLIGHT
To this morning I belong,
to glittered shapes of frosty dew,
to lines of light in tender leaves
and to those webs no spider weaves,
joining drop and drop of dew.
O I belong to frosty light
whose crystal now is ringing.
Light and leaves across the air
will swing this moment of delight.
O life on always different levels.
Light and frost of every song.
O sense and meaning of all singing.
And webs of light and frosty dew
will change despite my joy and reason.
Who must be living must be glad
for the four songs of each season.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMIH.
CUTTLEFISH
Cuttlefish for the world’s aviaries
Of trilling canaries;
From brittle bills the toast
Of all the cuttlefish along the coast.
And to little boys.
These are toys
Of the sea, übiquitous boats;
Patterns of the finest ship that floats.
And many, many more uses for the
cuttlefish:
A primitive spoon; china for a dish.
But why, why the brittle, boat-shaped
quill
With the sharp bowsprit? Being Man,
I will
Say such inconvenient bones for cuttle-
fishes
Were trussed on them, so God may
grant a child’s wishes.
QUEENSLAND,
JOHN BLIGHT.


iTB AOAN ELIZABETHAN THEATRE TR V
a . . “To mnkp thp thpntrp in A ustrnlin thp samp
‘To make the theatre in Australia the same
vigorous and significant force in our national life
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth II as it was under
the first Elizabeth”
HELP ESTABLISH THE
AS A LASTING MEMORIAL
TO THE VISIT OF HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
Dr. H. C. Coombs, Chairman,
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust,
17 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,
Enclosed please find
(i) cheque/postal note for as my contribution to the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
(ii) cheque for £lO, being an initial donation entitling me to
membership of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
(Cross out whichever does not apply.)
Name
Address.
(All donations over £1 deductible against Income Tax)
The smallest Postal Note will be
as welcome as the largest cheque.
If you are an Australian who
has ever once said “Why can’t we
have more really great theatrical
productions in Australia?” ... or
. . . “If only we could see more
ballet!” . . . then here is your im-
mediate chance to help make your
wishes come true.
The Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust has been formed to
encourage the arts of opera, ballet
and drama in Australia. Our im-
mediate goal is to raise at least
£lOO,OOO. When that amount is
subscribed, Her Majesty will be
asked to approve of the Theatre
Trust being constituted as a
permanent memorial of her visit.
With that £lOO,OOO, we shall do
two things . . .
(1) Support local companies all over
Australia so that they can present
finer productions more frequently
. . . and so save talented Austra-
lians from being forced to go
overseas to earn a living.
(2) Bring great overseas artists and
companies to Australia more often,
to provincial centres, as well as
cities.
Profits from such productions will
return to the Trust to be used for
even more frequent and finer pro-
ductions of drama, opera and
ballet. Remember the Trust is not
a commercial enterprise. The
members of the Board give their
services free.
Can we count on your assistance? Any donations, no matter how
large or small, would be very welcome. Or, i£ you would like to
become a member o£ the Trust (entitling you to special privileges,
such as preferential bookings), you can become one by making a
donation now of £lO, and paying an annual subscription of £5.
Please attach your cheque or Postal Note to the coupon below.
(Signed) H. C. COOMBS, Chairman.


Between
Ourselves
V| |||
// ill
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Have you tried
.ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you
• #
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke —and to offer
-these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
| CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
:/
'■•j F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
' Gardens. Old Bond Street.
London, W.l.
m
i ;
Si
AS PULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
On Heard Island
ONE CAME BACK
By V. J. H.
ON grim, blizzard-swept
Heard Island, Australian
outpost in the storm-
lashed Antarctic, stands
a modest concrete monument in
remembrance of two men who
died within a few hours of each
other on a bleak afternoon in
May, 1952.
Heard Island is a backwater
now, its importance obscured by
the new base, Mawson, on the
Antarctic mainland; but the
grimness of the heavily-glaciated
island, standing firm against
roaring blizzards and the
tumbling might of the ocean,
must still be faced by the men
there.
On the morning of May 26,
1952, Dick Hoseason, radio-
operator, Jock Forbes, dog-
trainer, and Lawrie Atkinson,
weather-observer, tramped away
from base-camp at Atlas Cove,
They were headed for Saddle
Point, four miles away as the
skua-gull flies; but nearly ten
miles and three dangerous
glaciers, and Desperation Gully,
were ahead of them; and they
had until that day never set foot
on even the gentle slopes on the
edge of the nearest glacier.
An escorting party guided them
over the easiest part of their
journey—for the rest, they were
on their own; facing country
where alertness and practical
knowledge of ice-climbing are
essential.
The two parties climbed slowly
up the steep ice on the western
side of the Baudissen Glacier.
Peter Brown, leading the escort-
group and an expert ice-climber,
constantly warned the three
travellers to follow his tracks,
and after twice wandering into
badly crevassed areas they were
roped-up and thereby made to
follow.
An hour later, after crossing a
wide, undulating snowfield where
the only sounds, rasping against
the clear, cold silence of towering
Big Ben, were their heavy
breathing and the crunch of
boots in the snow, they weaved
in around a maze of long
crevasses that marked the
turning-point of the glacier-
crossing.
The guides unroped. Brown —
who, with the writer, had spent
long hours, often in blizzards
and heavy cloud, exploring this
route across the glacier—pointed
with his ice-axe down the long
mountain - slopes, outlining the
track. He stood with his com-
panions and watched the Saddle
Point party march away, waving
and shouting farewells, until they
disappeared behind a mound of
ice. He then turned back.
Hoseason, Forbes and Atkin-
son went on, down a long snow-
valley leading around a terrific
mass of pressure-ice, across a
series of wide crevasses, through
drifts of soft, powdery snow.
They got lost in a nightmare of
blue ice-ridges and had to climb
back uphill to find their tracks
and try another way. Finally
they staggered on to Little Beach,
a black strip of sand separating
Baudissen and Little Challenger
glaciers.
Their packs dropped, they un-
roped, enjoying the curious light-
ness of their shoulders. Cigarettes
came out, and they sat down-
close to the sea, and gazed across
the calm water/towards the cliffs
of Saddle Point and down
towards the flat hummocky
closer inshore.
It didn’t seem far—from there.
The hut was plainly visible in
the clear atmosphere. They could
see elephant-seals lying around
the tidal mud-flats, and an odd
gentoo-penguin standing motion-
less on the beach. The apparent
closeness deceived them, and they
smoked instead of eating, and
argued their chances of crossing
the Little Challenger on the
narrow beach in front of the
glacier’s towering ice-wall, in
preference to crossing on the ice.
Peter Brown and the writer
had told them of experience on
the same beach: running with
one eye on the creaking ice-face
that could drop thousands of
tons of ice without warning ; the
other eye on the sea, cold and
sullen, ready to throw up an
unexpected wave to sweep up the
narrow beach and bash the fool-
hardy against the cliff.
You get seven minutes to live
in that water if the powerful
undertow drags you in. Patches
of quicksand, we told them,
threw us face-down in the surging
water without any warning. We
struggled out of it because we
were both big and could get
leverage against the undertow.
We made a mistake and lived;
we were as weak as kittens at the
end and never went near a glacial
beach again.
But the beach won now. It
looked so easy.
With Forbes leading, the party
began the dangerous crossing.
They walked instead of running.
They had their packs on both
shoulders —instead of on one so
that they could be easily dumped.
They picked their way between
some shattered blocks of ice that
had fallen from the cliff. The
sea lay like some well-fed snake,
grey and sullen, barely moving,
until they were half-way along
the beach. And then it reacted.
4 4
Without warning a huge wave
rose and swamped the narrow
strip of sand, knocked Forbes off
his feet and washed him out.
He slipped his pack and battled
back to the beach. All three
began to run, splashing through
a shallow pool gouged out by
falling ice that had been washed
to sea.
Another wave crashed against
the ice-cliff and caught Hoseason,
last in the line, in the pool. Ihe
extra depth gave added power to
the undertow, and the little radio-
operator was dragged away from
the beach.
Atkinson grabbed him as
another wave brought him back,
face-down on the sand, fighting
to get out of his sodden pack.
They fought desperately to gain
their feet in the rushing, freezing
water, but Hoseason was
exhausted and could not help
himself. Another wave smashed
them against the ice-cliff, jarring
them apart, and when it receded
Dicky Hoseason went with it.
Forbes and Atkinson knew
there was nothing they could do.
They ran to the shelter of a
heavy ice-fall and crouched
behind it, watching the undertow
grind the massive blocks together
as if they were pebbles, dragging
them slowly into the sea. After
a few minutes the two men ran
on, and the sea,' apparently
satisfied, let them go.
Wet through, chilled /to the
bone, they climbed slowly up a
rock-strewn moraine on the other
side of the glacier, weary and
sick. They had no food —not
even emergency chocolate in
their pockets—no shelter, no ice-
axes or crampons. Everything
necessary for their survival in
glacier country had gone into the
sea with their packs.
They had to keep moving.
There was food and fuel at the
Saddle Point hut, if they could
reach it. They tried hard, but
inexperience, and Desperation
Gully, beat them. A high rock-
face, almost sheer, blocked by
huge boulders and threatened by
thousands of tons of ice that falls
from the top, the only warning a
faint echoing crack, and slippery
with volcanic mud. Desperation
Gully is no place for men
weakened by immersion and
exposure.
Forbes and Atkinson turned
back, crossed the glacier where
Hoseason had been lost (how
easy they found it; hardly a
crevasse wide enough to worry
them!) and returned to Little
Beach. They were trapped be-
tween the formidable Baudissen
glacier and Desperation Gully,
with darkness only a few hours
away.
Jock Forbes, the distilled stub-
borness of a thousand Scots
generations, looked across the
wide reaches of Corinthian Bay
and over the black mud-flats to
base-camp. Fie was sure he could
make it across the Baudissen,
alone. Atkinson was exhausted,
needed help before darkness
came. A high wind had begun
blowing snow across the white
mountain-slopes, but he’d be
right. A couple of hours, that’s
all; a couple of hours of day-
light, then look for a relief-
party. “So-long.”
Atkinson watched him plough
slowly uphill into a cloud of
billowing snow, then looked for
shelter. He found a small cave
between two boulders, and
crouched inside, waiting for relief
that never came.
Forbes was dead soon after he
left the beach. His reserves uf
strength had gone in the freezing
water and in the cold mud of
Desperation Gully. He had
nothing left to take him across
the glacier. He tried to follow
the party’s outward tracks, frozen
in the snow, but in the wind and
blowing snow he wandered away
from the tracks into pressure-ice,
then cut back downhill.
Darkness began to edge the
crevasses. By some miracle he
fought his way out of the
pressure-ice and staggered down
the slope until he found the path.
A vicious gust of wind screwed
down the narrow snow-valley,
and as he wearily turned to plod
on the whipping spiral struck and
thrashed him on to his back. \ He
tried to get up, but couldn’t.
Next day, at base-camp,
routine jobs went on as usual,
the staff filling-in for the absent
travellers. At noon weather-
observer Ken Hall walked
towards the radio-sonde hut to
make hydrogen for the afternoon
flight. The mountain was clear
again, rare sunshine outlining
every ridge with brilliant white
light. He watched a group of
husky-puppies gazing with
unusual intentness across the
stony mud-flats, and glanced that
way to see what held their
interest.
Half a dozen hovering skua-
gulls, the vicious scavenging kings
of the Antarctic air, escorted a
man staggering slowly, intently,
towards him. It was Atkinson.
After a night of hunger, bitter
cold, and anxiety about Forbes,
he had crept from his cave to
look for the relief-party coming
across the mountain, then out
across Corinthian Bay for the
expedition’s motor-cutter. He
saw nothing.
+ +
A growing weakness told him
that he stood no chance of climb-
ing the glacier’s steep slopes. In
desperation he tackled the mile-
long beach in front of the
Baudissen, swimming a wide hole
at one point, crouching behind
ice-falls when waves threatened,
finally staggering off the beach
and plodding grimly on frost-
bitten feet towards base-camp,
another mile away over soft mud
and slippery glacial stones.
Hall ran towards the swaying
figure, shouting to geophysicist
Lindsay Ingall for help. Together
they carried the exhausted man
to the kitchen’s warmth. He
was in dreadful condition,
suffering from exhaustion,
exposure and frostbite. He
looked more dead than alive as
he haltingly mumbled that Dick
was drowned and Jock was on
the mountain somewhere.
Quickly a search-party packed
food and equipment for the
search, and within an hour Peter
Brown, Ken Hall and the writer
were away, marching quickly
across the flat, up the steep slope
at the, Baudissen’s edge and
across the wide, silent, beautiful
snowfield to the spot where the
escorting party had turned back.
Four husky-dogs came with us,
gambolling through the snow
excited at the unexpected
holiday.
We rested for a few minutes,
then set off for Little Beach,
following the firmly-set outward
tracks. The dogs raced ahead to
the top of a small rise, then sud-
denly skidded to a stop. They
looked back at us, and cautiously
moved on. We hurried after
them, crossed the rise and found
Jock Forbes.
There was nothing we could do
for him. He had done his best,
trying to help a companion in
trouble. Perhaps in the Silence
he was welcomed by another
“gallant gentleman” who died in
an Antarctic blizzard. Titus
Oates and Jock Forbes would
meet on equal terms.
We marked the frozen body
with tent-poles, and plodded
silently back across the glacier.
Next day it was recovered and
manhauled to base on a special
ski-stretcher and buried in the
hummocks overlooking the camp.
Later, Dick Hoseason was found
on the beach at Corinthian Bay
and was buried alongside Forbes.
Today a single cross stands
against the bleak Heard Island
skyline, a silent reminder to those
who face Antarctica’s frozen
wastes that there is no room for
mistakes. The first is usually the
last.


9
77
7
CiRAVy SULLV
4-MiNOTe MILE attempt
[t/-A c /Tv 4 S T/mE
/
iWAjpRIEJ
1
SS’sL
*5 *
>■>*v
s>r
h
fe
3v
A
#
7
iSSsSy
sss
ass
SS-'sv
M-l
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
. Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K.8.134.1S
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUIXIvAN
PXj-mO.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
mean OFFICE AND FACTORISE
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND ’
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
® SPORTING NOTIONS
Doomben’s Ten Thousand i
not old in years, but it has provec
a highly successful mid-winter
attraction at the headquarters of
the 8.A.T.C., and has been won
by some of the best sprinters in
Australia. At the height of his
brilliant career. Auction, Bris-
bane champion of Albion Park
successfully handled 10.12 in the
Doomben Newmarket in 1942 (in
the war years the race was de-
cided at that sand track). Bern-
borough in 1946 won with 10.5.
Murray Stream, dual winner of
the A.J.C. Metropolitan, came
back to the Doomben Ten
Thousand distance (7 furlongs
less 93yds.) and landed the sprint
in 1948 with 9.4.
True s Leader (14’s) beat
Coniston and Karendi in last
year’s Ten Thousand, in which
Karendi started favorite at 3 to 1.
Heads divided the placegetters,
all of which are again engaged,
with Karendi again favorite. As
an indication of Karendi’s
splendid form-improvement, he
carried 7.10 a year ago and now
has 9.9.
Karendi may win this Satur-
day’s Doomben Ten Thousand
from Gresford and Rapid River.
Noel McGrowdie, riding in
top form, landed three of the
eight Warwick Farm events —
Nirobi at B’s, Seacraft at 6’s and
Durabay at B’s—and went close
to making it a fourth on
Beamsley (B’s) in the final event;
had he not been forced wide on
the home-turn he might have got
there. McGrowdie holds an
excellent record in the Doomben
Ten Thousand, which he has won
three times since Bernborough's
year (1946); on Highstrung in
1947 (20’s), on Coniston in 1951
(10’s) and on Highlea in 1952
(50’s). He thus has been a good
friend to layers of the odds in
that important Brisbane sprint.
• • • •
Coniston, again engaged this
Saturday, has started in the
Doomben event three times, for
his win in 1951, unplaced the
following year, and second last
season to True Leader. Visiting
horses to win the big sprint
include Gay Chou, Hamurah,
Micawber, Murray Stream,
Ungar and True Leader,
W. Williamson set a new Mel-
bourne riding-record when he
won on Silver Crest at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. It brought
his total wins to 64 and one
dead-heat, beating by half a win
the previous- best made in the
1952-53 season by Jack Purtell,
and with a month of the present
term to go Williamson should
easily add to his total.
While Livorno’s race-form in
New Zealand before coming to
Sydney was not of much account,
he indicated at his second start
in Australia —-at Warwick Farm
last Saturday—that he could
quickly enter the winning-list.
Trained by H. Wiggins, a familiar
name in N.Z. Turf circles,
Livorno is a good-looking brown
colt by Red Mars (imp.), a
Hyperion sire, and from Tuku-
maitu by Theio (imp.) from
Duck’s Egg by Absurd (imp.).
The colt didn’t have much luck
in running when third to Rohini
and Blue Tavern in the First
Bruce Lowe Stakes at Warwick
Farm.
• • • •
Keith Mackay, a member of
the A.J.C. committee, didn’t take
long to win a race with Sabah.
One of his own breeding, Sabah
is a two-year-old filly by the
successful English sire Empyrean
from Rezan, a mare by The
Buzzard (imp.). Sabah has
started only three times, for two
seconds and the Warwick Farm
win. She was backed to
favoritism for the Silverdale
Novice for fillies. Fred Cush
trains the youngster, and he
turned her out in grand order.
Cush might have a potential
stayer in his stable, as Sabah’s
sire is a son of Hyperion, and
her dam. Reserved, was got by
Magpie (imp.) from Reticence
by Wallace (son of Carbine) from
Diffidence by Pilgrim’s Progress
from Etra Weenie by Trenton, a
noted stayer of earlier years. At
first glance Sabah is not unlike
Peter Pan when he first started
to race. She belongs to a noted
old family breeding-line.
Connections of two-year-old
Nilo (imp.) gelding Belbeiys
(named after an Egyptian trad-
ing port on the Nile) had little
chance of getting long odds
about him in the Casula Novice
at Warwick Farm, though it was
his first public appearance. A
street-corner tip, the gelding was
first quoted at 4 to 1 ; he eased to
sixes, but big bets brought the
price down to 9 to 2. As it turned
out, any price was good, because
Belbeiys simply toyed with
opponents, even though he ran
greenly. The form was impres-
sive, as he made a brilliant
sprinter, Bespoken, appear a
“If only 1 had th' strength ?’ get up I'd murder ’ im!"
second-rater. Trained at Rand-
wick by Jack Mitchell, the geld-
ing had worked in promising
style and his next outing is
awaited with interest. His dam,
Red Wendy, also threw Tara Lad
and Marine Victory, both
winners.
Warwick Farm winners Caspar
and Rohini were listed for
auction-sale this week, but
changes may be made —at least,
in regard to Caspar, who nar-
rowly defeated Beamsley in the
final event. If both horses do
parade in the sale-ring they
should provide keen competition.
Odds of 250 to 1 were avail-
able about Sir Pilot, without
takers, for the Warwick Farm
G. F. Wilson Handicap, in which
the High Caste gelding was rid-
den by a little-known apprentice,
F. Leman. Apart from the fact
that six furlongs would be con-
sidered too short, Sir Pilot hadn’t
raced since last October, and was
in need of the run. All the same,
his effort was rather good, be-
cause he was second-last in the
field of 15 at the half-mile and
10th at the home-tum. In the
run to the winning-post he im-
proved to seventh position.
When produced over a distance
more suitable (a mile or further)
he could show improvement. Sir
Pilot is one of the team of T. I.
Smith, who provided Seacraft,
winner of the race. Seacraft had
beaten Sir Pilot in a Rand wick
gallop earlier in the week. Sir
Pilot’s last win was in Septem-
ber last at Rosehill, over a mile
and a quarter. He has won at
up to 13 furlongs at Randwick.
The Australian time-record
for the mile has progressively
been reduced over the past 60
years from Imin. 40sec. to
1.34 i, present holder being the
speedy grey, Silver Phantom ; he
did the job at Randwick last
October. The 1.40 stood for
17 years, but with race-tracks
being improved from year to
year the figures were bound to
shrink. In 1899 Djin Djin
recorded 1.39|. Wakeful,
champion mare of her day,
clipped a second from those
figures. Subsequent holders of
the record, some of them for
a brief period only, include
Charles Stuart, Portrush, Mont-
calm, Satin Bird, Cetigne,
Whittier, The Hawk, Amounis,
Pavilion, Closing Time, Ajax,
Sarcherie, Ramdin, Peter Pan,
Amiable and Shannon —a grand
array of high-class performers
(some of them, of course, only
equalled existing time).
* * *
In a curtain-raiser to the Fiji-
Australia Rugby Union Test at
Sydney Cricket Ground, Scots
beat Shore, 29-6, in a fast, clean,
hard game that was a pleasant
aperitif to the main event.
But, as often happens, the meal
itself was a disappointment. It
left, at any rate, no such pleasant
tdste in the mouth as did the
G.P.S. game. Fights, boos, con-
troversial rulings, late tackles . . .
The Fijians won, 18-16, kicking
a penalty goal after the full-time
bell. Controversy is certain
about this, and Shehadie’s try,
and a good deal else in the Test,
including the reported statement
of the Fijian team’s manager,
“Blue” Goodsir, “Australian
half-back Brian Cox never put
the ball in straight all day.”
Goodsir sat on the field, and in
that position one has a better
chance of seeing what goes on
in the scrums. In a similar posi-
tion during the Fijians’ first game
in Australia, it seemed to writer
that the ball was thrown-in from
lineouts illegally by the South
Harbor team almost every time.
Taken all round, it was a good
thing the Fijians won the Test.
* * *
Having suspended hostilities
for a week while they combined
to repel the South Australian in-
vaders, the V.F.L. clubs on
Saturday resumed their internal
bickering. The three leaders,
Footscray, ’Wood and North, all
won on points ; ’Wood and North
just got there. Nearest result to
a knockout win was Richmond’s
18.12-13.17 defeat of Geelong.
This win allows the Tigers, in-
stead of the Cats, to complete
“the four,” Apart from which
only one thing needs to be
chalked-up for the record: Fitz-
roy’s winning of its first game,
in the 10th round of the competi-
tion —over the up-and-down
South, 11.10-10.14.
** * *
As here stated after Bannister’s
run, there’s practically nothing
between him and Tandy ; and it
wasn’t long—six weeks or so —
before the Australian also ran a
mile in under 4min, (in the new
time of 3min. 58sec.). Running
in a competitive event in Finland,
Tandy wasn’t particularly
knocked-up by his effort. He and
Bannister are to meet, for the
first time competitively, in the
Empire Games mile in .Van-
couver in August,
* * *
“Egami”: Tony Mottram,
British No. 1 lawn-tennis player,
defeated effortlessly in the first
round of this year’s Wimbledon
championships by Mervyn Rose,
6-1, 6-2, 6-3, leads a pointer to
the low levels reached by British
players, post-war. From 1907,
when the men’s-singles champion-
ship opened to world competi-
tion, only two home players were
to retain the cup; A. W. Gore,
in 1908-09, and the great English
star F. J. Perry, who held it for
three years in succession from
1934. Since then (no contests
during World War II) no British
player has retained the
Wimbledon trophy.
9*9
Sure, it was middleweights Pat
Kenny (11.5|) and Joe Manners
(11.2) met at Teichhardt an’
threw punches at each other. An’
many uv Joe’s wild swings were
connectin’, too, for a bit, an’
the right he flung in round four
wud have sent Pat to the
environs uv Botany Bay for the
fish to chivvy, only Pat wasn’t
there when it landed on a hole in
the atmosphere, an’ bigob there’s
the noble Joe flat on the canvas
with no visible means uv support.
An’ up he gets, an’ Pat hits him
a kick with every blow known
an’ unknown in pugilistic science.
An’ Joe’s down, an’ he’s up, an’
he’s down, an’ down again, an’
if he had any presence of mind
left he’d let go the ropes an’
sensibly an’ gracefully subside.
But he don’t; but now there’s
the grand referee Jackie Burns
steppin’ in an’ sayin’ “Joe, me
bhoy, you’ve had it,” or words
to that definitive effect.


The "Wild Turkey" Tragedy
A Noble Bird Is Vanishing
By ALEC H. CHISHOLM
AS Australia’s population continues
to expand, and as more and more
land is cleared, the need to safe-
guard native fauna and flora is
becoming a matter of urgency.
Especially is this so in view of the fact
that many migrants have the impression,
acquired over the years in Europe, that it
is a perfectly normal thing to tear down
any wildflower and to kill any wild bird
which has the ill-luck to catch their atten-
tion.
Little has been done by Governments,
either Federal or State, towards correct-
ing this European impression. Warnings
on the subject have been merely desultory
and have not been followed-up. More-
over, the drab fact is that in many dis-
tricts the New Australian is set a bad
example by the Old Australian.
A particular case, and one that is sorely
troubling naturalists in various States, is
that of the bustard, commonly known by
the erroneous name of “turkey”—plain
(or plains) turkey, or simply wild turkey
—a bird which ranks as one of the most
stately and distinctive members of Aus-
tralia’s avifauna.
When the aboriginal was lord of the
land the bustard held out quite satisfac-
torily. The species was then so -widely
spread that, in the autumn of 1770, one
fine fellow wandered coastward in what
is now Central Queensland and unwit-
tingly made a sacrifice of himself to Cap-
tain Cook’s company. The gift was
received cordially. “We all agreed,” Cook
noted, “that this was the best bird we had
eaten since we left England, and in honor
of it we called this inlet Bustard Bay.”
Explorers and settlers in later years
shared Cook’s opinion of the bustard as
food. Indeed, the reputed edibility of
the bird was its death-warrant. Its num-
bers were not seriously depleted by those
pioneers who were forced to live off the
land, but rather by their successors, who
had no actual need to kill the bird.
In many districts the slaughter was
countenanced by men who were blind to
their own interests—landowners who
knew, or should have known, that the
bustard is the country’s most effective
controller of grasshoppers, and of certain
other ground-insects as well. Yet they
allowed the bird to be shot whenever it
appeared on their properties.
Naturally, not all pastoralists were so
stupid. One Queensland grazier, F. L.
Berney, was so convinced of the value of
the bustard that he bombarded Govern-
ments for years in efforts to have the bird
safeguarded. He succeeded, in fact, to
the extent of having the species legally
protected in all States and Federal terri-
tories, but he died lamenting that the law
was frequently broken and that the bird
was still menaced with annihilation.
There was plenty of substance to Ber-
ney’s complaint about law-breaking. The
police themselves were in it at times.
Once, in North Queensland, one of our
natural-history collectors made the mis-
take of shooting in a prohibited area and
was thrown into the nearest jail—and
while there he was fed on “wild turkey”!
The collector told me the tale later.
“You wouldn’t read about it,” he said.
“A large policeman locked me in a small
‘jug,’ and then he went out and shot a
bustard, a bird supposed to be so rigidly
protected that it didn’t figure on my per-
mit. We made a meal of the specimen
together.”
One of the bustard’s handicaps is its
remarkably slow rate of reproduction —
remarkably slow, that is, on a compara-
tive basis, for, whereas its companion-
bird of the plains, the emu, produces up
to ten or a dozen eggs to a clutch, the
bustard normally has only two, and more
often only one.
How, in the face of advancing settle-
ment, can such a bird be expected to
carry on? How can it survive, on such
a slight basis of reproduction, when it is
continually menaced by dual pests, the
introduced fox and the man with a gun?
We had been under the impression that,
in recent years, a healthier attitude to-
wards the bustard was developing among
inlanders. Possibly that is the case in
some areas. But, by and large, our idea
seems to have been wishful-thinking.
A few months ago there appeared in a
Perth newspaper a letter from a man who
had been visiting the Peak Hill district of
W.A. He declared that, although he saw
no bustards in the area, he was astonished
to learn that men in Cue were cleaning
their guns in readiness to attack the birds
—this because grasshoppers were abun-
dant in the district and it was expected
that the turkeys would soon follow!
Incredible as that statement may seem,
it is borne out, broadly, by what a
Bulletin writer said in a paragraph
published about a year ago. He reported
that, although the bustard is strictly pro-
tected (by law) throughout WA., it had
been so harried that it was virtually extinct
south of the Murchison, and he added
that the indications were that the bird
would “continue to be shot' by the bloke
whose only interest in the bush is the
occasional feed he can get out of it.”
The West has a murky record in rela-
tion to the bustard, but so have the
eastern States. You would be fortunate,
at this day, to see one of the birds in
either South Australia or Victoria, and
in N. S. Wales the species has been
reduced to the stage of being declared
“rare fauna.”
As for Queensland, in various parts
of the sub-interior where the species was
once common it is now unknown —the
Darling Downs is a case in point —and
even on the great plains of the west the
stately figure is rarely seen and the boom-
ing voice is seldom heard. In short, where
formerly there were hundreds of the big
birds there are now only odd pairs.
According to a writer in a North
Queensland paper of recent date, the
tragedy of the bustard is that it became
known as a “turkey,” a misnomer, in his
opinion, since its edibility is overrated.
“Now,” he adds, “the turkey is pro-
tected, or supposed to be protected, all
the year. That protection is only a
supposition. While the bird carries the
name ‘turkey’ men will continue to shoot
it. ...In my opinion, its last and final
stronghold will be the Barkly Tablelands.
“Last and final”! , ,
Well, what is to be done? Are we to
allow this noble bird, the only one of
its kind in Australia, to be exterminated,
or is there some means by which it can
be saved?
When, two years ago, the Fauna Pro-
tection Panel of N. S. Wales conducted a
survey of the bustard throughout the
State, it found that the bird’s numbers
had “decreased enormously” during the
last 50 years; and then it set itself to
discover the causes and possible remedies.
The causes were easily determined as
being interference with natural habitat,
shooting, and the ravages of the fox;
but after that—coming to the matter of
remedies —the Panel reached a full-stop.
A suggestion made at the time by the
Ornithologists.’ Union (which had co-oper-
ated in the bustard survey) was that a
large area of western N. S. Wales should
be reserved as a national park. That
proposal had merit on a general basis,
but it did not solve the problem of the
disappearing bustard; for, of course,
there is little point in making a reserva-
tion for a bird that refuses to “stay put”
—one that follows the flow of grass-
hoppers, and of other insects, over hun-
dreds of miles.
So, then, we are back where we started.
Here is a vanishing and economically-
valuable bird which is protected by law
throughout Australia, and which in N. S.
Wales is safeguarded (as “rare fauna”)
by especially drastic penalties, and yet,
because of difficulty in enforcing the law,
Governments appear to be powerless to
prevent the bird from being continually
slaughtered.
There is, it would seem, only one
medium through which Australia’s bus-
tard can be saved. That medium is the
force of public opinion. It was public
opinion, rather than legal enactments,
which saved the lyrebird. Can it also
be brought into 'action to save the
bustard?
The answer to this question rests with
dwellers in the open spaces. It is they,
and they alone, who can avert what
threatens to be a' tragedy of extermina-
tion.
We of the naturalists’ groups have done
what we can, but the need is for local
assistance, over a wide area, in the
national interest. Men of the inland—
and women of the inland —we leave it
to you.
Home Town of "Waltzing Matilda"
The Swagman
at the North Gregory
By BERYL KENNEDY
THE little town of Winton in mid-
western Queensland (population
1800) has been doing itself proud
with a new civic hotel, rising in
super-phoenix splendor, at a cost of
£150,000, from the famous old North
Gregory.
It’s to be the finest country pub in the
State; a boon when they repair thither
for business and relaxation to the bush
folk of that vast open plain into which
Winton seems to be just dumped. They
cheerfully parted with an extra £25,000
in rates to hasten on the job.
The new hostelry (there are four others)
offers the last word in comfort, with an
infallible air-conditioning system, and
even a rumpus-room for the “tough boys"
- at the back of the luxurious bar.
The go-ahead character of Winton,
which prospers with the large sheep-
stations around it and suffers with them
in the cruel droughts of a particularly dry
region, seemed to invite a search into this
small town’s early history, and this
unearthed from Brisbane’s Oxley Library
The Reminiscences of W. H. Corfield,
1862-1899.
Corfield’s life from 1878 was linked with
Winton. He and his partner Fitzmaurice
were teamsters on the grand scale, carry-
ing to every goldfield in North Queens-
land. In July, 1878, they set out from
Townsville, crossing the divide between
the Landsborough and Diamantina
Rivers, and travelled down by Jessamine
and Mills Creeks to the Western River.
Here, at Pelican Springs, they found that
an ex-sergeant-of-police, R. Allen, had
established a hotel and store, to serve
teamsters travelling through with load-
ings for the immense scattered holdings
recently settled.
Liking the look of Pelican Springs,
they decided to try their luck there, too,
and built their hotel, the North Gregory,
in 1879. As timber was almost non-
existent, the floors were puddled with
mud; gins, with piccaninnies on back for
extra weight, stamped it down. ,
By 1880 Pelican Springs was making
progress, for there were six or seven
houses and a police-station, though no
lock-up; prisoners, mainly aborigines,
were chained to a log until they could be
taken to Blackall. During this year the
natives made a last protest and some
mutual massacring ensued. About 1882
the inevitable Chinaman appeared, soon
followed by many others. Also, a school
and hospital were built and another hotel,
the Royal Mail —this one by Mr. and Mrs.
Lynett, who arrived at Pelican Springs at
the same time as Corfield and Fitzmaurice.
It was said that all graziers from the
Lower Diamantina stayed at the Royal
Mail and drank rum, and all from the
Upper Diamantina at the North Gregory
and drank whisky.
Bob Allen, the first resident, was made
postmaster, and Pelican Springs became
Winton at his suggestion. The streets
were named after the chief stations in
the district: Vindex, Elder she, Cork, Dag-
worth, Sesbania, Werna, Oondooroo,
Manuka.
Corfield, who soon became the leading
citizen and first representative of Gregory
in the Queensland Parliament, sold his
hotel to a colorful figure named
W. Browne Steele, who liked to be known
as the George Adams of the West. He
ran exciting and very popular sweepstakes.
Late in 1882 the first clergyman to visit
the place held a service in the North
Gregory billiard-room, creating an
atmosphere by draping the billiard-table
in a blue blanket and the cue-rack in a
red one. The kitchen bullock-bell was
rung to summon worshippers, and the
Chinese cook, a sporting character, said
“Waffor? ’Nother laffle? All li. Put
me down a pound.”
Cobb and Co.’s mail-service started in
1880, the drivers vying with one another
for the handsomest team. , Corfield gives
a graphic description of two coaches
entering from opposite roads, one drawn
by perfectly-matched greys, the other by
spanking chestnuts. By 1886 the town had
forged ahead; the “Winton Herald” was
established, and roller-skating was the
rage when Corfield returned from a trip
abroad. As he passed the empty
Court House he glimpsed the P.M.
practising with buffer pillows
strapped to neck and lower region
of his spine.
When the North Gregory was
only 16 years old “Banjo” Pater-
son came to stay with the McPher-
sons of Dagworth station, where
he was told the tale of the swag-
man who, when found with a pur-
loined jumbuck, jumped into
Combo waterhole. For the first
time he heard the music of
“Craigie-lea,” played by Miss
McPherson, his fancy at once
caught by its provocative lilt. With
the new term “Waltzing Matilda”
also teasing the poet’s mind, the famous
song was as good as made.
There have been endless arguments in
North Gregory bars and lounges as to
where exactly the song was played and
sung for the first time, for a party from
Dagworth returned with Paterson to
Winton, some staying at the hotel and
some with the poet at Mrs. Riley’s,
formerly of Vindex, there being a piano
at each place.
As “Waltzing Matilda” leaped into
nation-wide popularity, Winton rejoiced
in being its birthplace, and as the years
have gone, as they do for country pubs,
with exciting annual events, a fire or two,
and occasionally a famous guest like Dr.
Thomas Wood, Paterson’s favorite ballad
has always been remembered at the
North Gregory, and sung by all sorts
of men.
And now the swagman has come to
stay, for when the shire’s consulting
engineer. Jack Mulholland, with a passion
for Paterson, was planning the new hotel,
he suggested that the council ask Daphne
Mayo to make four bronze panels for the
heavy oak front-door, each depicting a
verse of “Waltzing Matilda.” Miss Mayo
has, also designed three scenes to
be sand-blasted and used singly on the
many big glass-doors. These portray,
first, the swaggie again, secondly the
district’s primary industries, and thirdly
Qantas, for in 1920 this now-familiar
name came into existence at the first
directors’ meeting in the North Gregory,
though Longreach was soon made its
headquarters.
A grand new swimming-pool appears
on the same plan as the new hotel, to be
built about 200yds. away. Between these
two will be a wading-pool, shaped
like a billabong, with a handsome large
coolibah waiting there already in the
right spot. It is hoped that later a statue
of a swagman can be placed there,
perhaps a national offering to the
“Banjo,” who loved the West and
its men and horses.


LONDON STORY!
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!
df
d
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better 11
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-135 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/moneyrorder
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign £3/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIAN EXPANSION
Between them, correspondents
of two British papers—London
“Daily Telegraph” and “Finan-
cial Times”—give an impressive
picture of development, rftainly
industrial, in Russia’s satellites
to the west and in Soviet Asia to
the east.
In the “Daily Telegraph,”
K. M. Smorgorzewski notes that
the new features of a changing
landscape in Eastern Europe are
mainly the “number of smoking
chimney-stacks, new blast-
furnaces, steel-works and power-
plants,” all of them giving the
impression of a country in the
throes of an industrial revolu-
tion. Along with that goes the
impression of a people “under-
nourished, shabby and apathetic”
and not particularly impressed by
the industrial development going
on around them.
The force behind this develop-
ment, the correspondent adds, is
the Council of Mutual Economic
Aid, created in. 1949 and includ-
ing the Soviet Union, Bulgaria,
CzechoSlovakia, Hungary, Po-
land and Rumania, with Albania
and East Germany brought in
later. This council, “its form
and emphasis dictated by the
economic and military needs of
the Soviet Union,” prepared
four-, five- and six-year plans
for the various satellites and sub-
sequently stepped them up con-
siderably soon after the outbreak
of the Korean war. Thus, be-
tween 1949 and 1955 Poland’s in-
dustrial output was to increase
by 158 per cent., instead of 95
per cent., while between 1950 and
1955 East German steel-produc-
tion was to increase from 780,000
metric tons to over 3,000,000
tons, .and synthetic petrol from
454,000 tons to 927,000 tons.
“In 1953,” the “D.T.” corre-
spondent notes, “capital invest-
ments in all countries of the
Soviet bloc absorbed between 48
per cent, (in Albania) and 61 per'
cent, (in Hungary) of the Budget
expenditures—more than a quar-
ter of the respective national in-
comes. On average, half of this
capital investment was ear-
marked for heavy industry.”
Under four years of Soviet
long-term planning. Eastern
Europe has raised coal-produc-
tion by a quarter, almost doubled
the extraction of crude oil, in-
creased generation of electricity
by a half and increased produc-
tion of steel by three-quarters,
Where does it go to? In 1953,
for every 100 tons of coal pro-
duced by Russia, the seven satel-
lites added 58 tons to the pool;
for every 100,000 kwh. of elec-
trie-power generated in Russia,
they produced 43,800 kwh.; for
every 100 tons of steel they added
32.5 tons ; and for every 100 tons
of Russian crude oil. Soviet-
controlled Europe (including
Russian-controlled Austria) add-
ed 28.2 tons. As well, the 175
Soviet Army divisions were
reinforced by some 90 satellite
divisions.
“All this planning,” concludes
Smogorzewski, “is not for war
purposes alone. The Kremlin
has other aims in mind. The
first is the total self-sufficiency of
the Soviet Empire. The second
is expansion on ‘capitalist’ mar-
kets by cutting prices; in other
words, by dumping,
“The financing of this Soviet-
planned industrial revolution in
Eastern Europe is achieved at
the price of unbelievable exploi-
tation of the workers and
peasants. The ‘generous and dis-
interested’ help Russia is giving
to the satellites means that they
are victims of a colonial exploi-
tation of the worst kind. There
is less food, less clothing and less
housing than before 1939, and
freedom is dead.”
Meanwhile, far to the east, in
Soviet Asia, between the Caspian
Sea and the borders of China,
Russia is essaying another kind
of development. This area, notes
the “Financial Times” corre-
spondent, is in natural resources
as rich as, or richer than, the
Ukraine, Russia’s traditional
workshop and granary, but is far
less vulnerable:
“Priority is at present being
given to the resettlement of Soviet
agriculture in Central Asia—a
mass movement of men and
machines to virgin and idle lands,
in scope and speed reminiscent
of a parallel shift of labor and
factories during the war.
“Since the first Soviet Five
Year Plan, 1928-1933, cotton
has been supreme in the economy
of Central Asia, but it is only
under the latest Four Year
Cotton Development Programme
that production, which is planned
to exceed 6-million tons in 1958,
will approach present United
States output.
“Uzbekistan, the republic
anchored on the Aral Sea, which
supplies four times as much cot-
ton as all the other Central Asian
republics taken together, is
scheduled to produce at the end
of the plan-period 4.2-million
tons on 3.6-million acres —•
600,000 tons more than to-day.
“Reports from Turkmenistan,
London “Daily Express"
AFTER GENEVA
“May as well pack my suits —and then back to the old Kremlin grind.
the neighboring republic border-
ing Persia, indicate that work has
been resumed on the vast desert
reclamation scheme known as
the ‘Great Turkmen Canal’ to
transform 3-million acres of hot
sand-dunes into rich cotton-
growing areas. So far, however,
there is only mounting dissatis-
faction with the meagre results.”
Turkmenistan, the “Financial
Times” correspondent adds, has
rich oilfields at Nebit Dag on the
Caspian opposite Baku:
“The republic of Kirgizia is
believed to have Central Asia’s
best-stocked coalfields, although
neither present coal-production
nor oil-output passed muster at
the recent session of the Soviet
Parliament.
“More than half of the 32-
million acres of wastelands to
be reclaimed within the next two
years lie in Kazakhstan, which is
11 times the size of the U.K. and
the largest among the five Soviet
Central Asian republics.
“It has been promised that by
1955 the republic will have as
large an area under wheat as the
famous belt of black soils, the
foundation on which modern
Russian agriculture has de-
veloped.
“In the extreme north-east
corner of Kazakhstan another
bold project ijs to spread the
waters of the Irtysh River over
an area nearly equal in size to
the world’s largest lake —
Baikal —and generate sufficient
power for developing to the full
the immense ore-wealth of the
region.
“Ust-Kamenogorsk, on the
upper reaches of the Irtysh, is
an important mining-town, shar-
ing with near-by Leninogorsk
first place among Soviet tin-,
lead- and zinc-producing centres,
and growing fast into an indus-
trial metropolis.
“Some 300 miles farther south
are the growing cities of Balk-
hash on the lake of the same
name, and of Kounrad, both
centres of large development in
copper.
“Another copper source in
Kazakhstan is Dzhezkazgan.
Russians claim that these mines
are second only to the Chuqui-
canata deposits in Chile.
“Kazakhstan’s natural re-
sources also include oil at Emba,
on the Caspian Sea, and coal in
Karaganda, some 200 miles
north-west of' Lake Balkhash.
“In 1926 Karaganda had still
only 150 inhabitants; to-day,
its population is well over the
quarter-million mark. On the
eve of the last war, the mines
produced over 6-million tons;
next year’s output is expected to
be in excess of 30-million tons.
“For 500 years,” the same
correspondent concludes, “the
deserts and steppes separating
Central Asia from Russia have
barred pioneering Russians from
pushing the frontier of settlement
towards the Caspian plain and
the Pamir heights.
“Now, posters are appearing in
the streets of Russian towns,
boosting the land-rush to these
Soviet blackblocks.
“But there are complaints that
trainloads of young people are
being dumped in the wastelands
without prior arrangements for
their well-being, and that the
mass influx of Russians and
Ukrainians is pushing the native
population into back-seats.
“Shortages of materials are at
present hindering the full reali-
sation of Central Asia’s indus-
trial potential, and it is feared
that even now climatic condi-
tions may still make the success
of the new ambitious agricul-
tural schemes doubtful, to say
the least.”
Latin American
Troubles
The recent flow of arms to
Guatemala is but one of the
Communist moves to give Uncle
Sam a headache in those parts.
As a “U.S. News and World
Report” writer sees it, Moscow
is spending more money than
formerly to strengthen Com-
munism all through Latin
America, and is building-up in
many places for the day it can
start serious trouble for the
U.S.A., particularly in time of
war.
In 13 of the 20 Latin American
republics Communists are out-
lawed, but there are still 200,000
of them, “convinced and depend-
able” ;
“They have units, legal or
illegal, in nearly every country.
Their machinery is in good work-
ing order, oiled-up and effective,
and they are willing to tackle
any job assigned to them by
Moscow.
“The Soviet Embassy m
Mexico City is the headquarters
for Middle America —Mexico,
Central America and the
Caribbean islands. Here plan-
ning is done, local policy >s
shaped and orders are issued. A
sub-headquarters in Guatemala
has run operations m Centra
America. Headquarters tor
operations in South America are
in the Czech Legation in Buenos
Aires. .
“At the same time native Com -
munists and fellow-travellers are
shuttling back and forth between
Latin America and the Iron
Curtain at the rate of about 1000
a year about twice as many as
in 1952. Even Cuba, whicn
claims to have squelched Corn-
munism, lets party-leaders travel
to Iron Curtain countries.
“Most of these travellers go to
attend meetings of Communist-
controlled organisations. Some
stay on for indoctrination
courses. All receive pep-talks
and instructions.
“Elements of this fifth-column
are operating in widely dispersed
areas. In British Guiana last
October, Communist trouble
flared. Although the Govern-
ment there has the lid clamped
down, the Communists are await-
ing the chance to make more
trouble in that area.
“Guatemala has been getting
enough Communist equipment to
make it several times as strong
as any other country in Central
America, and it has been feared
that Guatemalan arms would be
smuggled to revolutionists in
these other countries. Fifth-
columnists from Guatemala are
supporting a Communist move-
ment in El Salvador, and they are
blamed for strikes that have
paralysed much of the economy
of the Republic of Honduras,
“In British Honduras, Guate-
malan agents helped the Left-
wing People’s United party
recently to win eight of the nine
elective seats in the colony’s
Legislature. In Costa Rica,
Guatemalan fifth - columnists
tried a few weeks ago to spark
a strike on vast banana-planta-
tions. A recent plot to assassinate
President Anastasio Somoza of
Nicaragua was nipped; the
Nicaraguan Government says the
Communists had a hand in it.
“Communists are active in
Jamaica and Trinidad. They hold


Senator McCarthy and
the Catholic Church
Is it true that an increasing num-
ber of Catholic Church leaders in
the U.S.A. are condemning Senator
Joseph McCarthy? The..current issue
of the League of Rights’ INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY answers this ques-
tion in an article exposing how the
Communist-inspired smear campaign
is being directed against an Ameri-
can patriot. The daily press features
every criticism of McCarthy while
suppressing the praise of Cardinal
Spellman and other prominent
Americans.
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also brings to Australians the full
text of McCarthy’s great speech,
“Twenty Years of Treason,” which
has never been answered. Every
month this publication makes avail-
able to Australian patriots objective
comment, articles and vital informa-
tion concerning the Communist con-
spiracy against Christendom.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY: 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription: £2 25., post
free. Order from The Victorian
League of Rights (non-party; non-
sectarian), 343 Little Collins Street.
Melbourne.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
I BABBERE
J No Pads —
f No Springs
r The NBO-BABBBBB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fd
A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
il
MH
r
/
w
8
'y
the name is
fOCaUums
the whisky is
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS.
MCl7a/6.2
|S MoKflUtir
I* "The PRESIDENT
* ir
* *
★
Every Monday night
at 8.30 Australia’s
Queen of Song,
Gladys Moncrieff,
presents five potential
stars of tomorrow. At
the conclusion of the
programme their per-
formances are judged
by the audience In
the Macquarie Audi-
torium, who vote in
their order of prefer-
ence. The winner is
then invited to ap-
pear again the fol-
lowing week, and any
artist winning three
successive pro-
grammes will receive
the £lOO President
Award to help him
or her further their
career.
★
Presented by the makers of President Refrigerators on
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT 2CA
3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
S MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
most of the important offices in
two French islands, Martinique
and Guadeloupe. All these
islands occupy strategic places
along Caribbean shipping-lanes.
“The Caribbean area, in fact,
has a high priority on the Soviet
programme. Submarine bases in
or near the Caribbean, in case of
war, would increase the effective-
ness of Russia’s undersea fleet.
German submarines in World
War II that operated near Latin-
American shores had to return to
Europe frequently because they
had no bases in the Western
Hemisphere. U.S. Navy officers
believe that Russian submarines,
if given Caribbean bases, would
be able to operate in the area
almost indefinitely.
“The Communists are building,
also, toward another method of
closing - off Latin - American
defence materials from the
United States. The idea is to
shut-down mines, refineries and
ports by strikes and sabotage,
“Already, Communist union-
leaders are able to close the big
copper-mines in Chile at will.
Communism is strong among the
miners of Bolivia, the only big
source of tin in the Western
Hemisphere. Party-members are
influential among Venezuelan
oil-workers, and they have foot-
holds in mining, transportation
and port unions in many other
countries.
“Military experts are con-
vinced that Moscow’s idea is to
confront the United States with a
Latin-American dilemma in case
of a full-scale war in the Eastern
Hemisphere.
“In the * meantime, Moscow
sees agitation in Latin America
as a means of distracting the.
U.S. from what is happening in
Indo-China and other parts of
the world. It’s all a deliberate
and, from the Russian point of
view, important programme.”
McCarthy
In a letter to London “Spec-
tator,” a Canadian, W. Kent
Power, answered a lot of people
who wonder why President
Eisenhower doesn’t “remove
Senator McCarthy from the posi-
tion of privilege which he is now
abusing.”
“The President,” the writer
noted, “has recently taken a stand
against McCarthy’s interference
with the Executive’s deliberations
and functions. That is as far,
apparently, as the President can
go under the U.S. Constitution.
airy manner in which
advocates of McCarthy’s removal
overlook that Constitution (very
precious to the Americans) and
the whole Congressional system
and traditions is amazing. Many
present anti-McCarthyites would
rally to his support if his
obnoxiousness were made the
basis of an attempt to change it.
“Eisenhower, if he were
thought to be going too far,
would meet with the same rebuff
that Roosevelt met with when
he attempted to interfere with the
judicial branch of the Govern-
ment, by increasing the member-
ship of the Supreme Court,
“The only way McCarthy
could be removed would be by
impeachment—a very dangerous
course (he would exploit it to his
advantage)—and it is difficult to
think of grounds on which he
could be impeached,
“The President might go direct
to tfie people, but in doing that
he would have to be careful not
to give grounds for the charge
that he was attempting to make
the Presidency a dictatorship.
“It must be remembered that
at least a third of the Americans
still say, ‘We don’t like McCarthy
or his methods, but he has done
a necessary job.’ Many of that
third are fanatical followers of
his, and the wrong tactics might
soon increase that third to be-
tween a half and two-thirds.”
France
The hardening of the U.S.
attitude towards France is
reflected in a “U.S. News and
World Report” editorial which,
if a little more sympathetic than
are the advocates of “pressure”
to make France join the Euro-
pean Defence Community or,
alternatively, an “agonising
reappraisal” of American policy
in Europe, at least comes to the
same conclusion —more allies
besides France.
The idea of France as one of
the major Powers is not a realistic
one, the “U.S. News and World
Report” comments:
“Do we [America] really
understand the France that only
nine years ago was liberated from
a five-year military domination
by a conquering enemy?
“Do we know what five years
of military occupation by a
foreign army does to a nation?
Do we know what it means to
lose in two world wars more than
two-million of the nation’s finest
men, with millions more hobbling
along the streets the rest of their
lives and with hardly a family
untouched by the casualty-lists?
“The seven-year war in Indo-
China has been a big load to
carry. It has strained an already
over-extended Budget. Death on
the battlefield has taken a heavy
toll of officers —the equivalent
each year of an entire graduating-
class at the French West Point.
The flower of the regular French
Army—4o per cent, of the non-
commissioned officers and 25 pei
cent, of the commissioned officers
—is being risked now in Indo-
China.
“Yet the pressure to furnish
troops for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation and now for
the E.D.C. continues. It pre-
supposes a reorganised France,
fully capable of taking such
responsibilties in her stride.
“The task of reconstructing a
war-torn country is not a mere
matter of handing out billions of
dollars to rebuild heavy
industries.
“The social structure of a
nation is not remade overnight,
nor is human nature suddenly
transformed because American
money is forthcoming to sustain
a weak economy. Workers,
underpaid and now formed into
powerful labor-unions, listen to
Communist harangues and be-
come the innocent tools of the
Communists, whose infiltration
is by no means underestimated.
“Communist strength at the
polls is gradually diminishing as
economic conditions improve.
There is no fondness for Com-
munism or for Soviet imperialism
among the masses of the French
people or even among the
majority of the leaders of poli-
tical parties. But there is enough
Communist influence among the
trade-unions and enough Com-
munist members in Parliament to
enable the dissident groups to
throw monkey-wrenches into the
machinery and to exploit the
economic and political weak-
nesses of the French nation.
“As in all countries just emerg-
j n g from a war-era, there is a
floundering and a perplexity, and
ji j§ not reduced by American
insistence on greater effort by the
French in preparing militarily
f o r a third world war or for a
more intensified campaign in
Indo-China.
«vu e 0 f America must find
besides Fran ce, more allies-
f r ; Pnr |iv countries in Asia and
E y For the d d .
pnrp a<s before cannot be nlaced
French Znmm ” P
P *
There's the Rubski
In a film, the late Leslie
Howard once replied to a Nazi
assertion that Shakspeare had
been proved to be a German by
remarking that, at least, the
English translations were “very
fine.” A current Russian inter-
pretation in Leningrad, as de-
scribed by a “New York Times”
correspondent, might be more
difficult to define.
The “collective” work of pro-
ducer Kozintzev, artist Altman
and composer Shostakovich, it is
presented as the “tragedy of a
man of humanist principles who
perceives the depravity of the
feudal life surrounding him and
also perceives he cannot change
it.” Hamlet himself is “a pro-
gressive figure from the dialectic
standpoint, counterposed to the
reactionary forces of feudalism.”
“Ophelia,” the correspondent
adds, “is shown as a ‘cheerful,
jolly girl’ who ‘makes fun of her
moralising brother.’ All passages
indicating she is capable of
understanding Hamlet’s person-
ality have been eliminated, and
she is presented as a simple,
guileless girl. This portrayal, the
critics note, is not entirely
successful, because it makes it
difficult to understand why
Ophelia goes mad.”
Dragnet Digest
“Light From Asia.” —Looking
over the prospects of a Com-
munist advance down through
South-East Asia, London “Spec-
tator” notes that “Siam has de-
dared itself willing to resist
invasion; it would undoubtedly
appeal to the United Nations for
help if Communist forces tried
to move in, and the chances are
that it would get such help,
Malaya has been for
years against Communist infiltra-
tion and it is unlikely to stop
now. Burma is rather less likely
to go Communist easily than it
appeared a few years ago.
Ceylon, Pakistan and India are
not, and never were, an easy prey
to Communism. Australia and
New Zealand are willing to resist
it with arms That leaves only
Indonesia, and even there the
Communists would have no
walk-over. In fact, the present
small light from Asia can be
fanned into a steady glow.”
Britain's Gold - reserve.
Britain’s gold- and dollar-reserve,
which rose to $3867 million dur-
ing—and as a result of—the
Korean war and then fell to
$1672 million by July, 1952, has
since climbed back to over $2820
million. This rebuilding, com-
ments New York Times, has
not been so spectacular as that of
the Korean war period, “but
when we consider the forces that
generated the two recoveries
there can be no question which
was the more solid and construc-
tive achievement. For the
recovery of 1952-54 has been the
result not of the fortuitous con-
sequence> of war but .of sound
economic policies on the part or
Britan .in
m its foreign-trade programmes,
There is a world of difference
between the two.”


Traditional
BRITISH
Service
makes all the
difference , all the
way , on Speedbird
world routes.
BOA C takes good care of you
See your Travel Agent
for complete trip-
planning help—no
charge.
to all six Continents
Experience is the secret of B.CXA.C.’s
world-famous high standard of service .. •
35 years of experience in caring for the
comfort of passengers, with courteous
attention and flying skill. Small wonder
that so many experienced travellers
recognise 8.0.A.C. as “the leader in
world air travel.” Fast, frequent services,
by fully-pressurized 4-engined airliners.
Liberal stop-over privileges. No tips: no extras.
Speedbird Services fink Australia with
INDONESIA. MALAYA, BURMA, THAILAND,
HONG KONG. JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA.
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA, EUROPE,
GREAT BRITAIN U.S.A., CANADA, CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA, BERMUDA.
fl MfJ lf
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
AAA/AH
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT CHARLES WARNER late
of 12 Stanley Street, Petersham. —TAKE
NOTICE that ADA WARNER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 852 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an ap-
pearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 15th Octo-
ber 1954 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from KEITH YOUMAN
Solicitor, of 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
spread the cook’s opinion and
probably multiplied it out of
all proportion in the process.
“Isn’t Mr. Batterseley going
to give us our horses?” asked
the older brother, cutting into
Norbray’s retrospection.
Archie inspected the men
critically, in turn. “Do you
really want work?” he asked im-
pulsively, ignoring the other’s
question.
“We rode twenty miles to get
it,” replied the older brother,
then added with a shake of his
head, “but if Mr. Batterseley’s
th’ boss ... it looks like nothin’
doing.”
A RCHIE sucked in his breath
and his pulses raced with
a new-born enthusiasm.
“I’m the boss,” Archie heard
himself say huskily. “I’ve been
away for years, but,” his eyes
swept around familiar scenes
of his boyhood, “I’m coming
back with my family to live here.
Would you two lads work for
me?”
“It’s okay with me,” replied
the older brother eagerly,
grinning cheerfully. “What
about you, Barney?”
“If it suits you, it does me,”
replied his brother, who faced
Archie and asked: “Can we
take our horses, now?”
“Take them down to the
stables and give them the best
feed of corn, lucern, oats and
chaff you can find,” replied
Norbray happily. “You two
are on the payroll from this
minute.”
And as he walked thought-
fully towards the homestead
feeling reborn, he knew what
would happen to Batterseley
when he got there, knew that
Fairholm would be the next
overseer, and knew what he’d
say to his wife. For now he
was the boss —or she was. Any-
way, he’d kiss her and say :
“Hooray for Caroline!”
ask for it nice
by
David
Cawiplell
lAM a greengrocer—that is to
say, a Greek. My shop is
down at the Quay, next
door to the pub. There is
a tram-stop opposite and a fish-
shop on the other side of me. It
is a good place for trade, the
Quay—busy ; and when business
is slack, it is pleasant to stand in
the doorway in a white apron
and watch the ferries gliding in
with the gulls and trams starting
and stopping there at my door.
“All right,” I say to myself.
“All right, all right. There is no
hurry. I can wait. My transport
system is working perfectly.”
If you see me rise on my toes
and smile down over my wide
apron, you’ll know that is what
I’m thinking.
“There is plenty of time. Let
them come to me.”
Standing in the doorway is the
best part of the day. If a man
is doing well, he might have the
time to savor it, to soak it in like
the sunlight. I stand, I see noth-
ing ; or I see everything and
reflect. You see, I have the time,
“Murder! ” cries the paperboy.
“Read all about it! ”
And here am I in the sun.
“Life,” I say. “Life!”
And I take from my window
a yellow pear that never worried
in its life, and eat it in my own
doorway, core and all,
“Yes,” I say, spitting out the
pips. “It is very sweet. Just like
my Anna.”
Then crowds of people pour
out from trams and ferries, as
if pursued by the devil; and I
walk back into the shop, wiping
my fingers on my apron.
“Anna,” I call. “Here come
the customers. Anna, do you
hear? We must drop the price
of the pears.”
You see, I am a Greek—that is
to say, a philosopher. I notice
things.
PARTICULARLY I notice the
1 children. If you are a green-
grocer, you must pay attention
to the children. The pear is still
there, for the children. And if
you are not on the lookout, up
goes a little hand —and what
have you got? Bruised fruit.
Yes, it pays to keep an eye on
them. Take this morning for
instance, Saturday.
There are Anna and I, busy at
the back of the shop. I am serv-
ing Mrs. Grieve, a regular. How
much is this, how much is that?
It does not matter, she can pay.
But just to illustrate my point—
there is her little girl squatting
down showing her knickers,
looking at something on the
floor.
“Mummy,” she says, “what is
it?”
Just imagine that! Never seen
a grasshopper in her life before.
I’ll admit they’re uncommon
about the Quay—must have
come in with the fruit —but there
it is on the floor, a common
green-and-gold grasshopper. And
the little girl is gazing down at it
as if it is some precious jewel.
“Mummy,” she says, “look!
It’s cleaning its ears.”
But as I was saying—Anna
and I are there at the back of
the shop. Suddenly up goes a
hullabaloo at the door, children
shrieking and laughing and cries
of “Put it back, Rodney, you’re
a dirty thief! ”
I go to the door and of course
they scatter, the usual street-kids,
leaving a little boy standing there
with a bulge in his jersey.
“Rodney,” I say. “What is
that bulge in your jersey?”
He does not run, but stands
there transfixed, his little mouth
open and the red point of .a
tongue clacking from side to side
like the tongue of a bell.
“Rodney,” I say, “give it
here.”
He reaches into his jersey and
brings out what do you think? —
a single Brussels sprout.
“Rodney,” I say, smiling and
shaking my curls, for quite a
crowd has gathered by this time.
“Rodney, you must not touch
the sprouts. The sprouts are not
for little boys.”
Everybody is laughing and
smiling, and I put the sprout back
in the open sack by the door.
You see what I mean ; it pays to
keep' your eye open.
■OUT this is a funny thing. I
am walking back to count
up Mrs. Grieve’s fruit, when
suddenly I stop,
“What is the matter?” I say.
Her little girl has her hands
up and her eyes are as dark as
cherries. What can it be? I look
down and there is this green-and-
gold grasshopper almost under
my shoe.
“Pardon me,” I say, walking
round him; and Mrs. Grieve
and I exchange smiles. The child
is still pale. You’d think I was
treading on her.
Rodney has followed me into
the shop. He is looking at the
hopper too —two of them there,
staring at it like it is the strangest
thing in your life.
“Mummy,” says this Grieve’s
girl, “it’s wearing a crown.”
Well, well, there you are! Mrs.
Grieve puts her parcels into a
string-bag and she and the girl go
out. And I say to Rodney, kind
as I can, “Now then Rodney,
you run along. No more sprouts
today.”
He looks at me with no ex-
pression at all, his little eyes as
shallow as the fish-eyes next
door. And what do you think
he does? He puts his heel on
the hopper, spins around like a
top, and out he runs whooping
into the street. What do you
think of that?
A LITTLE while later, in
comes a weekend drinker.
How do I know? Well his belly
is on the move. Still well set-up,
mind you—tall, with plenty of
flesh. But he’s sick-eyed from
Friday night; and I’m willing to
bet a case of apples, the wife sent
the kid out with him to keep him
out of the pubs. He’s had a
couple, though; I can smell the
breath of them. And the girl is
whining a little, tired of waiting.
“Daddy,” she says, “buy me a
banana.”
The big man takes no notice
at all. He is pricing the fruit.
One of those. They pick through
the lot and end up buying half
a dozen oranges.
“I want a banana,” the girl
says.
She is a tall child, straight and
fair, in a green dress, with arms
and legs as thin and pale as
celery. And when the man
ignores her, she makes up a kind
of chant, singing it to herself in
her whining voice.
“I want a ’nana. I want a
’nana.”
It is doing no good to the
man’s head at all.
“Julie,” he says. “Shut up.”
“But I want a banana.”
“All right,” he says, “but ask
for it nice.”
“I just want one, that’s all.”
“Julie, ask for it nice.”
And all at once I wake up to
what the girl is doing. She does
not want the fruit. She wants a
scene.
“I want a banana,”
And quite suddenly, it hap-
pens. He drops the half-dozen
oranges on the floor and slaps
her across the face.
“Ask for it nice, I said.”
"OUT the child has got what
she wants. She is off in an
instant, dancing out of the shop
on her long thin legs. She has a
skipping-rope in her hands and
she swings it, skipping, laughing
in through the door at the heavy
man,
“I didn’t want it at all,” she
sings. “Ha ha. Ha ha.”
The man’s face is still swollen
from picking up the oranges, I
return his smirk, for he is the
customer. Everyone else watches
him as we walk to the door.
And the girl turns and skips
off laughing down the street,
hopping over the rope—hop, hop,
hop, with her fair hair flying and
her green dress, just like a grass-
hopper. The man follows her
woodenly on heavy feet, without
even a glance at the pub. But
what I noticed most were his
eyes—expressionless, like the fish
next door; or the eyes of the
little boy as he turned on his
heel.
T>UT that is all by the way. We
were talking, I think, about
pears, about bruised fruit.


Missing Friend
ALFRED EDWARD CHITTS, whose last
'known address was Willung South, Gipps-
land, Victoria, or any person having
knowledge of his present whereabouts, is
requested to contact THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY 00., LTD., 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice
I, LADISLAV VITEK, of Czechoslovakia,
born at Lukavice, Czechoslovakia, resident
five years in Australia, now residing at
Cooma, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
T ravelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
-\
mm
tj
88883^
I ivw|7*v|
What is stronger than steel!
My Dad says a fibre of wool is diameter for
diameter, stronger than steel I don’t know what
diameter means but my Dad’s a scientist, and he
knows. Because this is so, my Mother always buys
Stamina for me, for Stamina clothes are made
from these strong pure wool fibres.
My Dad says all Stamina clothes are made from
8W1.113
pure wool Crusader cloth and
that’s why they wear so well.
Stamina clothes are comfortable
to wear. They keep their colour,
and they keep their shape, too.
All Stamina clothes are good.
ASK FOR
■ I cmmj — q
Stamina
SotftSutis
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Book of Dene,
Deane and Adeane by Mary Deane-
-5842.
To buy copy of Fishes and Fisheries
of Australia by T. C. Roughley, also
1953 copies of the American magazine
“Field and Stream.”—sB4l.
Whereabouts of Robert Newson
(35), ex-English Army-officer, arrived
Australia, September, 1953, was in
Brewarrina (N.S.W.), believed to be in
Innisfail (Q.) district. Family urgently
inquiring.—sB43. .
To get in touch with persons born
in Shropshire (England) who would
be interested in the formation of a
Shropshire Society in Australia. —5836.
Words of poem by Victor Daley,
on the occasion of the unveiling of
the Burns statue in Melbourne, con-
taining the lines:
What statue needs the Bard of Ayr,
What sham memorial urns.
When Scotsmen carry everywhere
The name of Robert Bums?
—5835.
To buy copy of Genesis of Queens-
land by Stuart Flenry RusselL —5839.
Information Sought
(7) Where was the “Kia-Ora
Coo-ee” published? (2) Who were
the chief contributors ? (3) Any fur-
ther details ?
(1) The “Kia-Ora Coo-ee” was the
official magazine of the Australian
and New Zealand Forces in Egypt,
Palestine, Salonica and Mesopotamia
during World War I. It was pub-
lished in Cairo, and the first number
appeared on March 15, 1918, and the
last on December 15, 1918. (2) Among
the contributors were Oliver Hogue,
A. B. Paterson, H. S. Gullett, Charles
Barrett, and Frank Read (“Bill Bow-
yang”). Read was the first editor
and he was succeeded by Charles
Barrett. (3) It was a well-produced
magazine illustrated with line draw-
ings, cartoons, and photographs. The
cover design for one issue was drawn
by George Lambert. There was more
than a hint of the influence of The
Bulletin in the “Anzacalities” feature
and “Answers to Correspondents.”
Odd issues are sometimes found in
second-hand bookshops, but a com-
plete file is hard to obtain.
* * * *
How did Fort Denison in Port
Jackson receive the name “Pinchgut’ ?
This name dates from the very
earliest days of the N. S. Wales
colony, under Captain Phillip. In
1789 the scanty and vitally necessary-
stores of the settlement were plun-
dered. Phillip summoned a court,
hanged the ringleader, and committed
the rest of the robbers to imprison-
ment on bread and water on a little
island in Port Jackson, which thus
earned the name “Pinchgut.” The
island was afterwards used for defence
purposes, and is now known as Fort
Denison.
* * * *
How should sugar-gum seeds be
germinated, and what time of the year
should they be sown ?
The sugar-gum seed is not as a
rule difficult to germinate. There is
no necessity for the seed to be heated
or scalded. September, October and
November will be found the best
months to sow, and, if successful in
the germination and the young seed-
lings properly cared for, they should
be ready for planting-out by the
following May or June. Sow in
seedboxes or pans containing a fairly
open soil-mixture, and cover the seed
with about £in. of fine soil. When
the young seedlings are large enough
to handle, pot-off singly into small
pots in which they can establish them-
selves before planting-out. The pods
or capsules, if ripe when taken from
the tree, will usually open to allow
the seed to be shaken from them if
placed in the sun for a few days.
¥ * * *
James Henniker Heaton’s “Aus-
tralian Dictionary of Dates and Men
of the Time” (1879), mentions George
Howe as the first printer in Australia.
Is this correct?
No. Heaton’s book is in many
respects unreliable. Although Howe
has been, and still is, often referred
to as the “Australian Caxton,” the
honor belongs to George Hughes, a
convict. Little is known of Hughes
except the reference, in Collins’s
Account of the English Colony in
New South Wales (1798), which,
under date November, 1795, reads:
“A small printing press which had
been brought into the settlement by
Mr. Phillip, and had remained from
that time unemployed, was now found
very useful, a very decent young man,
one George Hughes, of some abilities
in the printing line, having been found
equal to conducting the whole business
of the press....” Beyond the fact
that his name appears as one of the
principal actors, on a number of play-
bills printed on the Government Press
between 1796 and 1800, nothing more
is known of him. In 1801 no printer
is recorded in the returns of Governor
King and it is assumed that Hughes
had given up printing. George Howe,
who took over the Government Press
in 1802, and was the first publisher in
Australia, came to Australia in
November, 1800. He was granted a
free pardon in June, 1806,
«*’ * *
(7) What is molybdenum ? (2) Has
it commercial value? (J) Is it found
in Australia?
(1) The metal molybdenum occurs
in many parts of the world, but
usually in quantities too small for
commercial treatment. (2) Its uses
were formerly very limited, but since
discovery that its presence in steels
increases their tensile strength,
elasticity and hardness it has been
in greater demand. (3) Yes, Aus-
tralia is one of the chief sup-
pliers of the metal. It is mined in
commercial quantities at Evertqn
(Vic.), on the Chillago field in
Queensland, and at Kingsgate, Deep-
water, Bolivia and other places in the
New England district of N- S. Wales.
* * * ♦
Brief Answers
A.A.: You do not state the
material of which the ceiling is made.
Wood can be washed, scraped, or
burnt off with a blow-lamp and then
painted with a hard enamel. Fibre
and fibrous plaster should be washed
clean with lime-water and given
several coats of enamel paint. Kalso-
mine may be used instead of paint,
but it soon deteriorates in a kitchen.
If lime-water is not available for
cleaning, a strong dash of cloudy
ammonia in hot suds is very effective
for smoke-stains... .J.L.W.: The two
stars referred# to are most probably
Canopus (the most southerly) and
Sirius. The planet is not Jupiter but
Venus... .T.E.: Write to the Regis-
trar of Probates, Somerset House,
London, giving full details. A fee is
payable, depending upon the length
of the will, but the' amount of the
fee is not known... .B.W.N. : Write
Gaston C. Renard, Antiquarian Book-
seller, Box 529588, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne... .J.S.A.: On the facts
stated the person referred to is en-
titled to a pension at a reduced rate.
It is suggested that you apply to the
Age and Invalid Pensions Branch,
Department of Social Services, Aus-
tralia House, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney W.M.W.: Harry Moran t
(“The Breaker”) was shot at Pretoria
(South Africa) on February 25, 1902.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
Adeo (Medina, W.A.): Please
send us your full name and address
so that payment can be made
S.P.D.: Far too many characters for
a story of that length... .J.M.W.: It
could very well do without that long
introduction... .G.A.: Seeing that
you are a first-offender we will let
you off with a caution.. . .5.8.: A
laugh here and there would improve it
greatly 8.M.G.: It must be about
the oldest fishing-story in the world.
J.L.: A little less about the compli-
cated punting system and more about
the punters and it might stand a
chance... .L.C.W.; “The Cook’s Day
Off” could have been much brighter
O.G.L.: You don’t strike school-
masters like that nowadays R.K.:
The Religious Editor has not been the
same since he read “Behind the
Scenes at King’s Cross” W.R.:
Cannot see you having a rendezvous
with the Bulletin cashier E.M.8.:
“Silver Night” needs polishing
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
1.D.: Those steelworkers are cooling
off in the basket E.A.W.: Applaud
your sentiments if not your poetry.
N.W.F.: You may be in tune
with the infinite, but not with the ear
of our verse-reader... .R.F.M.; You
are the tenth poet this week to tell
us that “Bush life is the life for me.”
. ...8.D.: Left Mrs. Bibbendorf to
her tears M.C.: Ordered off the
field A.H.W.: That snake yam
should have been allowed to hiber-
nate H.C.S.: All the ingredients
were there. Story spoilt in the mixing
and the cooking J.D.K.: You
worked hard enough, but Hugh never
came to life H.S.: Not among
the prize blooms P.N.: Miranda
won’t scatter her adjectives around our
pages M.W.: Wildly melodramatic
and improbable D.S.: Still in the
novice class A.J.C.: Hiram’s visit
to us was very brief W.L.H.:
“The Man at the Wheel” couldn’t
steer it into print S.C.: You fall
down, like many beginners, on trying
to describe something you have never
seen.... W.R.: Accurate observation
of the weather is hardly enough to
make a poem E.S.K.: You ought
to feel better with that off your chest.
M.L.: “Lead me out from the city
into the wild free air.” Out with you.
F.M.F.: That story was going the
rounds when bustles, antimacassars
and iron dogs on the front lawns were
all the go J.B.McC.; A deserted
hut, a rinkbarked tree, a dying
swagman, waving com, a fowling
dog, ocean rollers, and a ghostly
figure on horse-back —all in twelve
lines of bad verse —was more than
we could stand... .H. 8.: Sending us
such sentimental twaddle is a waste
of our time and your stamps....
K.L.: Those derelicts are on their
way home... .E.A.S.: We might be
able to give you a verdict if the yarn
were legible... .H.A.: For Heaven’s
sake don’t tell R. D. Fitz Gerald that
that is “modelled on Fitz Gerald’s
style” M.G.H.: “Have you heard
of Ayer’s Rock?” Yes. “Have you
seen the wild Arunta?” No.
“Have you dived into a lily-pond?”
Never. “Have you heard?” For
the love of Mike stop asking ques-
tions! L.L.: It must have been a
dreadful damper that caused “The
Swagman’s Dream” C.8.V.: The
pubs where that yarn was first told
are now crumbling in the dust....
8.M.P.: “My friends say this is
funny enough to make a cat laugh.”
Unfortunately for you cats don’t read
The Bulletin W.A.D.: It’s a long
time since we heard that gasping
damsel exclaim “Have you not a sister
of your own!”... .H.W.; Its length
doesn’t make up for its inanity....
8.A.: Your chief requirement at the
moment appears to be a sense of
humor T.P.J.: Come again with
something less hackneyed....W.F.C.:
“Moonlight Maiden” doesn’t look too
well by daylight....K.D.: “Adorable
Dora” is stranded for want of her
fare home... .V.M.: Where did you
hear an abo. say “Massah’s down by
dem riber trees, sah”?... .T.R.W.:
Gone to its long and —we hope—last
rest K.N.: That tale was all the
rage when beer was 3d. a pint
5.8.: At least you’re the first we’ve
struck to give “That indestructible
bond between editor and contributor”
as one of the main reasons why we
should accept your yarn... .F.J.D.:
You can have “Old Maggie” back
for a threepenny stamp F.S.: The
ending seems to jump in from
nowhere C.BJ.: Staggered to the
doorstep and perished of pernicious
anaemia.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage im
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
f
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
Xbe treated sterile sewerage Is
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■ ‘DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 118
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.). Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. F. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
" FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
HOE
d
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
BUYERS! SELLERS!
We invite you to visit, phone or
write to us, for anything in
REAL ESTATE.
PACIFIC ESTATES,
CONNOR PLACE. SURFER’S PARADISE.
Phone 824. A/hrs., Southport 915.
360 Queen Street, Brisbane. 89230.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
c
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Ca!-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome Uc'k.
Qs
CM
s«»' us f
ftOO*
sOH*
M n
4
Ob
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular! gladly lappllad—-
Write to DAVIS GELATINII ®.PO. fcllft
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • 9ACL
8o« 712 F, ADELAIDE • 6-PjO. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O. Box IBS. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LANP
DON'T WOŔRV. ? SENDING ? TO
GRAZCOS.
INCREASING BEEF PRODUCTION
.
J Brisbane, in May, 1952, at
the Australian Veterinary
Association conference, M. C.
m r^ reac l a paper entitled
eef Production Can Be
ncreased m Australia.” Out-
si e specialist circles the paper
caused little stir at the time,
JNovy, with meat-rationing end-
mg in the U.K. at midnight next
8eS y Lwa a rf„ Wi,h I , m °, re
of thp n^rf neSS I Kt Australia
nomnhaUHPc ’f vr ° bltms A and
Snfpltr ’ the - mdustry ’
exnresid in ?w nS opimons ’. as
more nnWie ■ paper ’ ment a
j
three penertd 5: ame u u de r
summarised • mBS ’ ere
1. For an immediate inereace-
fa) a more rapid turnover—in
other words, earlier fattening •
(b) cheaper and better transport
to facilitate movement of fat-
stock to market and more
important, to encourage move-
ment of young stock and stores
from breeding-areas to better
country ; (c) more use of fodder-
conservation, and its corollary,
better nutrition, by means of hay,
silage, and also concentrates;
{d) growing of fodder-crops to
supplement grazing ; ( e ) pasture-
improvement.
2. For a progressive increase:
(a), c, d, and e above; (b) better
control of drought losses, parti-
cularly of breeders and young
stock ; (c) better feeding of stud
stock ; (d) collection of growth-
data, where facilities are avail-
able, as a pre-requisite for defin-
ing the nutritional problems of
typical beef-producing areas.
3. Special problems: (a)
progeny-testing; (b) drought-
feeding investigations, including
studies on fodder-requirements
for survival, and the mechanics
of feeding; (c) special aspects,
such as protein-requirements and
-deficiency, phosphate-deficiency,
vitamin -A - requirements, etc.;
(d) fundamental research to
determine, for Australian condi-
tions; (1) Fodder-requirements
for production, maintenance and
survival; (2) breeds, strains and
crosses best suited for various
localities, as judged, for example,
by age at maturity, efficiency of
food-conversion on pasture and
when hand-fed, and grazing
habits; (3) effect of supple-
mentary and complete hand-
feeding studies.
Franklin remarked that a start
had already been made in the
southern States, with financial aid
from the Australian Meat Board,
in collecting data on seasonal
changes in liveweight of steers;
which “will provide valuable
information on these lines from
status of pasture at different
seasons of the year and in succes-
sive years, the magnitude and
duration of periods of nutritional
stress, the comparative effects of
grazing oiT improved and on
native pasture, the effect of
supplementary-feeding provided
as dry fodder or as grazing on
suitable catch-crops, and the
suitability of certain areas for
fattening,”
These are only superficially
simple problems. Local know-
ledge may be a guide, but, until
Franklin began his work, no
attempt had been made in Aus-
tralia to get any measurable
information on these lines, from
which general conclusions could
be drawn. In the ’thirties Mul-
hearn and Seddon had taken
weights of cattle on Guinea- and
Para-grass at Tully (Q.) and
compared them with the weight
of cattle on natural pasture at
Charters Towers, and the results
were interesting. Gains at Tully
only about lib. per day, but,
compared with the controls, an
estimated difference of 12 months
in readiness for market.
This promising experiment
aside, the field was practically
untouched. In 1944 Hooper, of
Talbingo (N.S.W.), began stall-
feeding cattle; C.5.1.R.0. became
interested, and then, in early
1949, the Meat Board contri-
buted a cattle-weighing scale,
putting the experiment on a
sounder basis.
The Talbingo experiment was
concerned with topping-off;
therefore it differed basically
from the American feed-lot
practice, glimpses of which, every
now and again, impress Aus-
tralian visitors to the U.S.
Objects were, mainly, to discover
the shortest time in which steers
could be brought safely on to full
feeding ; maximum proportion of
concentrates which could be
used; whether feeding-standard
data (mainly American and
English) could be adapted to
Australian conditions ; and also,
what type of beast did best in
the stalls.
It was established that short-
term stall-feeding is a sound
proposition, with a few qualifica-
tions. One is the necessity of
understanding the technical side
of food-values ; and most cattle-
men in Australia don’t. Another
is the seasonal fluctuations of
prices for stores and the price
of fodder.
The system can only pay, in
Australia, when stores and
fodder are cheap. But, com-
pared with grazing, hand-feeding
is always costly, and cannot be
recommended when seasons are
good. A basic disadvantage is
the absence of a premium-price
for choice beef. All these quali-
fications, of course, are points of
difference with conditions in the
U.S.A.
That is not to §ay conditions
will remain the same. Premium-
prices for quality meats, in the
long run, seem inevitable. A glut
of wheat, for instance, would
have its effect on domestic prices
for grain in general; and if some
of these possibilities seem remote,
the more detailed information
on the Talbingo experiments con-
tained in the C.5.1.R.0.
pamphlet which came out this
year has an immediate value.
At present pasture-feeding
remains the most economical and
practical method of fattening
cattle under Australian condi-
tions; but, as Franklin points
out in “Feeding Trials with Beef
Cattle” (C.5.1.R.0. leaflet No. 8),
pastures vary. Liveweight gains
of up to 31b. per day are possible
on good pasture; up to 1.51 b.
per day on those of medium
quality. But even the best pasture
falls-off at certain periods of the
year, and then a beast’s weight
may remain stationary, or even
decline —as was seen, rather
dramatically, in figures for loss
of weight by cattle during certain
months in North Queensland.
Supplementary-feeding may be
needed at these lean periods;
and supplementary - feeding,
again, depends on costs.
The problem of determining
these costs is a complex one, and
is closely tied to the whole subject
of food-values. The publication
of the three C.5.1.R.0. leaflets
mentioned earlier on this page
(Leaflets 7, 8 and 9) makes the
basic subject reasonably clear to
the layman, and, with the aid of
the charts, there is no reason why
accuracy in the application of
feeding-standards should not be
possible, on a large or small scale.
And accuracy in this respect
means that there is a minimum
of wastage in any form of
supplementary-feeding.
The leaflets were compiled by
Franklin and published this
year. So the aims set-out in the
paper of 1952 are in some
measure fulfilled ; but, of course,
it is a continuous process, a
collection and comparison of
data in different parts of the,
country. A few general points
from Leaflet 9 (“Feeding Beef
Cattle for Show”) are worth'
quoting:
Obtain regular body-weights
if possible. Weigh rations, rather
than measure individual food-
stuffs (by volume, and when
making-up batches of feed weigh
each foodstuff). Make all
food-changes gradually. Increase
the daily ration steadily, mak-
ing changes, say, once a
week, until animals are on
full feed. Don’t overfeed
during very hot weather, and
avoid having beasts too fat dur-
ing summer months. Aim to have
stock in top condition by show-
time, Balance rations carefully,
and avoid feeding excessive
quantities of concentrates when
on full feed. On the other hand,
not too much roughage, or
growth will be retarded. Missing
a feed of concentrates occasion-
ally, and feeding on hay only,
will help to maintain appetite.
Remember that a deficiency of
minerals and vitamins can ruin
an otherwise-adequate ration.
Cattle can be brought to show-
condition on twice-daily feeding
and without elaborate prepara-
tion of the food, provided the
process is begun early enough.
No hard-and-fast rules can be
laid down as to time required.
Good-quality lucerne and chaff
should provide the bulk of
roughage in the ration. Oats and
bran are the two safest concen-
trates, but for optimum growth-
rates, corn, grain-sorghum,
barley or wheat should also be
provided.
The feeding of show-cattle,
perhaps, is a mere sideshow to
the commercial feeding of cattle.
Still, whatever the rights or
wrongs of the practice, cattle
enter the ring as nearly perfect
in condition as feeding can make
them. So the application of these
standards to show-ring cattle is a
fair test. The chief value, for any
cattleman, lies in the standards
themselves, the result of research
in England and America, and
until recently, not generally avail-
able in Australia, Other aspects
of the cattle-raising industry
mentioned by Franklin in 1952
await further development.
Illustrated Hint
C. H. Foster notes in the “Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture Journal” that two tynes re-
moved from buckrake—one on
either side of the centre tyne—
make a difference in placing loads
on the stack; that’s the experi-
ence of L. Kirby, who used a
buckrake last year to make stack-
silage from a dense growth of
subterranean-clover and rye-
grass, struck difficulty dumping
—load tending to cling to tynes ;
greater the incline the greater the
difficulty—and hit on the idea.
The load then formed downward
bulges which gripped the stuff
already stacked, drawing the
whole load off at the point where
the buckrake had been lowered.
Missing tynes made no difference
to pick-up in paddock—with this
material, anyway.
Clean Floors
“C.C.”: Many dairyfarmers
accept the fact of a proportion
of their cows urinating and drop-
ping manure while in the bails as
just one of the trials of the
game. One is reminded of this
by the untidy manure-heap
common to the outside of most
milking-sheds, and the com-
plicated drains and pits used by
the more-progressive farmer to
save the, excreta in liquid-form
for dispersal on the pastures.
Also in mind are the variety of
methods suggested for training
cows —such as a bucket of water
over the hindquarters when they
offend!
My experience convinces me
that fouling is due almost entirely
to nervousness caused by bad
handling and inefficient shed-
routine. Cows generally are
highly - excitable pieces of
machinery, and loud curses when
a fresh-in milker makes-water
when the cups are on make it
odds-on that you’ll get a repeat at
the same stage of the next milk-
ing. Watch when you have
visitors during milking. If you
get a dirty floor the cows don’t
like your friends.
I’ve found that a little special
attention, soothing words and an
extra pat or two, combined with
a fast routine which doesn’t leave
them standing long, have made
the dirty floor a rarity in the
dairy. Same thing applies to leg-
ropes : I never use them,
although most farmers don’t like
to take the chance.
Crosscuts
“In 1894 Australia’s total
cattle - population was 12.3
million, of which an estimated
1.8 million were dairy-cattle,
leaving an estimated beef-cattle
population of 10.5 million. In
March, 1953, beef-cattle numbers
were again 10.5 million. This
does not mean that there has
been stagnation in the beef
industry over the past 60 years”
(R. A. Patterson in the
“Quarterly Review of Agricul-
tural Economics”).
• • • •
Other points from the article
(based on an address to the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand
Association for the Advance-
ment of Science): A study,
covering approximately 20 years
up to the mid-’forties, of several
properties in Central and North
Queensland, showed that net-
incomes available to meet interest
on capital and give a return for
operator’s labor and manage-
ment, averaged only 3 per cent,
on total capital invested ; during
this period, credit-facilities
acceptable to cattlemen were
restricted ; majority of properties
were held under leasehold tenure
—with limited improvements,
only security, often enough, was
stock, which, in bad seasons,
were highly perishable: all this
combined to produce slow and
limited improvement. On the
other hand, since the war, and
especially over the last three
years, there has been a change.
Of 73 properties visited in
Queensland in 1951 and 1952,
69 had definite plans for new
development; of these, 40 were
old-established properties, “and
it is significant that 32 of these
had shown no increase in cattle
numbers, and little variation of


GENERATOR
FOR SALE
ANTHONY HORDERNS 7
Four Nunn Generating Sets complete
with English Ford V 8 motor, large
water cooled radiator, V belt drive to
Harland Engineering Co., direct
current generators, drip proof type,
capacity 18 Kilowatts at 1460 RPM
continuous rating, 100 volt, 180 amps,
each set has complete switchboard
comprising rheostat, voltmeter, amp-
meter, main switch and fuse.
MORE WORK-
MORE SWINGS!
with the NEW Fordson Major
Kerosene ,^r^Model
>
ALL THIS STANDARD EQUIPMENT
IS INCLUDED IN KEEN PRICE . . .
Power Take-Off . . . 2-speed Belt Pulley
... Lighting and Starting Equipment .. .
“Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor . . . Front
Wheel Track Adjustments . . . Radiator
Pressure Cap . • • Radiator Shutters
. . . Large Weatherproof Toolbox.
£9lB
WITH 14 x 18 6-PLY TYRES.
PRICE F. 0.8. FORD PLANTS
More Farm-right Features than in any other tractor
NEW 6 - SPEED TRANSMISSION six
forward and two reverse gears give the
right gearing for every farm job including
fast trailer work.
NEW “TOUCH-CONTROL” HYDRAULICS
provide instant control through one lever
—raising, lowering and holding implements
in intermediate positions.
NEW 3 —POINT LINKAGE allows fast
attachment of mounted implements.
NEW RANGE OF “CROWN” MATCHED
IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT for greater
versatility in 4 ‘round the farm” maintenance
and construction.
And many more advances which your Ford
Dealer will show you.
-m
rs’curaESS®^
Also available in Australia's most modern Diesel-fuelled model
Your local Fordson Dealer will supply further details •
FORD MO TOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA ~.P_T_Y_ LI-2
turn-off until after the war. In
fact, eight of these 32 properties
were carrying fewer cattle on the
same area than they had been
earlier”; on 23 properties visited
in the Northern Territory and
Kimberleys in 1952, “it was
evident that good prices being
received for stores and fats, and
the prospect of greater future
stability, were encouraging
development mainly by the pro-
vision of more waters and
fences.”
* ♦ ♦
“C.A.A.”: At Yumali (S.A.),
adjacent to the “A.M.P. coun-
try,” schoolchildren (with Agri-
cultural Bureau assistance) have
established experimental plots of
medic and clover. Trace-ele-
ments are to be used in the trials,
* * *
Wilfred D. Vernon, of Spillers,
Ltd. (U.K. millers), on wheat:
“Before commenting upon the
world wheat position, it is
important that I remind stock-
holders of my reference last year
to the wide disparity existing be-
tween world prices in 1939 and
those of the present day. As an
illustration, the price of No. 2
Manitoba wheat in 1939 was
approximately £6 ss. a ton, which
compares with £29 a ton for the
same wheat today” (London
“Times” report).
♦ • • '#l
Touching on the bumper crops
in 1953 (notably in the U.S.,
Canada and Australia), Vernon
commented that “under free-
market conditions this pressure
of supply would normally lead
to a greater fall in prices than
has already occurred.” In the
“Quarterly Review of Agricul-
tural Economics” T. H. Strong,
director of the (Common-
wealth) Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, gives some details of
an important factor in world
prices—domestic price-support
systems:
In the United States, for example,
the on-farm support-price is 220 cents
a bushel (or about 19s. 7d. Australian
currency equivalent), while in the
Argentine the fixed-price to producers
is around the equivalent of 245. 4d.
per bushel (bagged at port basis).
Yet, when these countries sell for
export, they have to compete for
markets at prices which have recently
fallen as low as around 15s. per
bushel.
As a kind of cross-section of
tendencies in certain districts,
Eugowra (N.S.W.) js an interest-
ing example. Only one-third of
the pre-war acreage is under
wheat in the district. There are
various reasons for this, but the
two major ones are skeleton-
weed, and good prices for wool
and lambs. Contributing factors
are cost of machinery, the long
wait for a return from wheat,
pasture-improvement (a lot of
hay has been cut in the district),
and, this year, the season.
■it * *
Shearing-season began in
N.S.W. a couple of weeks back,
with eight sheds starting in the
west and north-west. Clip likely
to be lighter than usual this year,
although sheep, generally, are in
fair condition. Same rate for
shearers as last year—£7 6s. a
hundred.
* ♦ ♦
Three trucks left Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) on a fair-sized over-
landing job—shifting 1000
Boonoke North rams from that
Merino stud to Longreach (Q.),
2200-odd miles away. Owners,
F. S. Falkiner and Sons, have a
property at Longreach.
In the same N.S.W. district a
less-successful experiment was
reported by stock-inspector E.
Scott-Rogers. Local man, in
order to get a drop of lambs early
in March, treated his ewes with
hormones. Untreated ewes had
a drop of 82 per cent.; treated
ewes, under 40 per cent.
* * ♦
“Fruitfly”: Farmers on soils
requiring only one or two trace-
elements should count them-
selves lucky. In Queensland’s
granite-belt around Stanthorpe
the orchardists get the lot. If
they don’t spray with copper the
trees get summer-dieback; if
they don’t put on zinc the trees
get little-leaf; if they don’t apply
borax the trees get “measles”;
if they use too much lime or
dolomite they induce an iron-
deficiency. And by the look of
some recent work both
molybdenum and magnesium are
a bit light-on.
Farm Hints
“Alpha”: This “methyl”
treatment of E.H.M.’s for the
control of cutworms (B.
16/6/’54) is a new one on me.
There’s nothing better than
sprinkling D.D.T. around the
seedlings after planting.
“Jumbo”: Milk-fever in cows,
of course, is caused by a drop of
calcium in the blood ; ewes some-
times suffer from the same
deficiency, and treatment is the
same—solution of calcium boro-
glucinate injected under the skin
or into the jugular-vein (latter is
often preferred for cows, because
injection under the skin some-
times causes abscesses). For
cows, dose varies from 2|oz. to
3£oz. calc, boroglucinate dis-
solved in lOoz. to 15oz. boiled
water; for ewes, to 2£oz.
c.b. in lOoz. to 15oz water. How-
ever, ewes sometimes get mastitis,
and this is often called milk-
fever.
“Greasy”: Most trouble with
diesels is caused by wear on the
injector-pump by abrasive par-
ticles of dirt which have been
carried through in the fuel. I
claim no originality for the
observation; it’s been made
before, and formed the subject
of a leader in the U.K. magazine
“Farm Mechanisation” a few
months back. But it’s worth say-
ing again. With petrol- and
vaporising - oil - engines, dirt-
particles are trapped before they
can do much harm. Because of
the higher specific-gravity of
diesel fuel, particles are kept in
suspension longer and can be
carried through the fuel system,
causing wear on the pump and
atomisers. The thing to do is to
have storage-tanks in which fuel
can settle after delivery, and at
regular intervals remove con-
taminants with a sludge-cock. If
you carry fuel to the tractor,
make sure tins are perfectly clean
and, generally, be fussy about
dirt.
“Old G.”: If the ducks have
been without drinking-water for
a while give no food for a few
hours.
To distinguish be-
tween a pullet and a hen examine
the undersurface of the wings. A
pullet will have minute rose-
colored veins, but these are en-
tirely absent in a hen. A pullet
will also have a fair supply of
silky hairs among its feathers;
they disappear after the first
moult.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The drier period indicated by the main and secondary
cycle is now established. The next rain in that series is late
in July, but a good deal of cold weather, including one rather
severe spell, is likely before then. Recent rain was the
Uranian point already mentioned. It was weakened by
having no supp'ort in the other cycles, but the fact that it
had strength to show at all indicates that if other points
appear they may mitigate the dry-spell slightly. The first
one is about the middle of July; notice of other points will
be given as the season unfolds.


THEOTHERFELLOS'SMIND
will continue to increase in these once-
safe Liberal seats. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Population Movement in N.S.W.
The Federal election revealed in N. S.
Wales a two-way movement of popula-
tion of considerable political and econo-
mic significance.
The shift of population from the inner
to the outer suburbs of Sydney is easily
explained. The home-seeker, led at
times by the Housing Commission, has
gone to those areas where land is cheaper
and where he is not restricted by brick-
area regulations and the like. While it
is desirable that people should move
away from the congested and almost
slummy inner-area of the city, so sudden
a movement is increasing the existing
chaos in the administration of Sydney.
Fifteen city electorates have shown a
decrease, ranging from 500 in Warringah
to 6000 in East Sydney, and totalling
over-all 41,000. In every case the elec-
torate affected is near to the heart of the
city. The increases are greatest in those
suburbs where there has been consider-
able Housing Commission activity—
namely, Reid, Parramatta, Mackellar and
Banks.
The movement has been from areas of
established services to places where those
services did not previously exist. Every
Government or semi-Govemment service
is concerned. Power authorities, post-
office, transport and local councils are
all affected. •
Those who move away from the inner
suburbs cannot take their water-pipes,
footpaths, telephones, etc., with them;
and the services supplied to those suburbs
will soon become a liability when, at the
same time, new suburbs are crying out
for them.
In most of the Mackellar electorate it
is hopeless trying to get a phone con-
nected, yet hundreds of newcomers have
applied to have their old phones trans-
ferred to them. We are not so short of
phones or cables; the trouble is that
many of them are now in the wrong
places. The same applies to water-pipes,
gas-pipes and sewerage. The M.W-S. and
D. Board cannot supply sewerage to one-
third of the areas that have been in exist-
ence for many years, so what hope has it
of even considering the new suburbs?
Municipal councils are having similar
difficulties. They just cannot catch up
with the development that is going on.
Miles and miles of new roads and streets
are needed ; likewise extensive drainage-
works, while many more miles have to be
travelled each week for sanitary- and
garbage-services.
Transport authorities are also con-
cerned. Trains are hopelessly over-
crowded and buses are leaving hundreds
behind every morning. There is a limit
to the number of trains that can be
brought into the city in peak-hours, and
that limit has almost been reached. The
position will be eased a little by the
completion of the Quay loop, but by that
time the population of the outlying
suburbs will have further increased.
Bus-services are increasing, too. Two
years ago there was no such route as the
173 (Wynyard-Narraweena), but today
seven overcrowded buses leave Wynyard
between 4.45 p.m. and 6 p.m. It is
alleged that it costs the Transport
Department £1 3s. for every pound’s-
worth of fares collected. If that is so,
the outward movement of population is
going to send a broke department broker!
Will there be a “safe” Liberal seat a
few years hence? The present trend seems
to be a shift of surplus Labor votes from
the industrial suburbs to those areas
where the Liberal-vote once predomin-
ated.
Examine the electorate of Mackellar,
extending from just north of the Spit to
Palm Beach and westward as far as Terrey
Hills, Although the number of voters
has increased by 5000 the Liberal
majority has dropped by 3000. Labor
majorities are seen in such centres as
Narraweena and Terrey Hills. Narra-
weena is a fast-growing centre populated
by the public-servant type, most of whom
allegedly vote Labor. As the area from
Seaforth, through French’s Forest to
Narraweena becomes more closely
settled so will the Labor vote increase.
It is impossible to say what effect a
redistribution of electorates will have on
these centres until it is actually done.
But, however it is done, the Labor-vote
Butter and Margarine
The dismal forecasts over the past year
or so on the future of Australian dairy-
ing seem to have proved- quite wrong.
The dairyfarmer is still prosperous and
dairyfarms still change hands at very
high figures.
The cost of butter to the Australian
consumer may be high; but so is the
cost of almost everything, including labor.
Despite this high cost, there is no real
evidence that Australians now prefer
margarine and have stopped eating
butter. The consumption of margarine
in Australia is about 31b. a head a year,
compared with 301 b, of butter. The
price-relationship of margarine to butter
is the same percentage today as it was
in 1939, 61 per cent. Margarine is still
used mainly as a supplementary food in
cooking.
Apropos, in Queensland dairymen
have a genuine grouch at the State Gov-
ernment’s continual raising of the mar-
garine-quota increased, they think,
solely because the dairymen had won an
increase in butter-price. But these in-
creases in themselves are not the cause
of the growl.
The reason is that the margarine on
sale in Queensland contains nearly 70 per
“Sorry I can't be in it, Teddie —been caught for baby-sitter
cent, of coconut-oil, produced in the
islands by cheap labor, against which the
dairyfarmer can’t compete. He does not,
of course, contest the right of the mar-
garine manufacturer to make a product
based on constituents produced in Aus-
tralia under Australian industrial con-
ditions.
But, apart from the largely-fictitious
rfienace of margarine, there is still an
expanding export market for butter in
Britain. Lady Tweedsmuir, a British
Conservative M.P., speaking at a London
luncheon to inaugurate the Butter Infor-
mation Council, appealed to the main
butter-exporters (Australia, N.Z. and
Denmark) to increase their butter-exports
to Britain.
Britain, said the lady, despite an in-
creasing use of margarine, did not have
nearly enough butter to meet the present
demand. Australia can surely increase
last year’s export to Britain —27,000 tons.
Provided a good-quality butter is
always produced, there seems to be an
assured market, both here and in Britain,
for it. — Keima (Q.).
TV and Films
With television, and even “Eurovis-
ion,” on the horizon, Australian film-
houses are preparing for battle with such
weapons as “Cinemascope” and the
“Panoramic” screen.
It will be a willing fight. In England,
film-audiences waned until, three years
after the advent of TV, cinemas raked-in
only a scant proportion of former pro-
fits. The position is a little more even
today, mainly because of poor TV pro-
ductions.
The competition will probably be
fiercer in Australia, because many more
U.S. films circulate here than in ting-
land, and the moguls will not so readily
abdicate. On the other hand, sponsored
TV will offer more competition than
the national variety in England.
The outcome? Better profits might
attract here both English and American
artists to appear on Australian TV. Simi-
larly, U.S. film-magnates will strive to
hold their lead by producing bigger and
better pictures.
Me? I hate fights of any sort —much
prefer a good book. — Egami (N.S.W,).
Savings Banks
Savings banks were established very
early in Australia for the encouragement
of thrift. The first was Campbell’s Bank,
which opened for business in N. S. Wales
in 1819. Its purpose was to “remedy the
extravagance and improvidence which
the poor settlers, mechanics, and laborers
of this Colony have fallen into, by rea-
son, first of their having no encourage-
ment to save their earnings, and secondly
of their having no place of safe deposit
for those earnings.”
Out of that small beginning have
grown the various savings banks as we
know them today ; as an indication of
the growth, the State Savings Bank of
Victoria now holds approximately £235
million —and it has as a competitor with-
in the State the Commonwealth Savings
Bank.
The report of the Royal Commission
on Banking (and a most comprehensive
and satisfying report it was) had quite
a lot to say about this matter, and made
one very important recommendation. It
admitted the valuable service rendered
to the community by these banks, but
added that certain disadvantages arise
from the fact that the maximum amounts
on which interest is paid are high.
In the first place this means that large
amounts, exceeding what might be con-
sidered thrift-accounts, are subject to
withdrawal at very short notice. In the
next place, the comparatively high rates
paid on large sums at call tend to force
up interest-rates. The commission there-
fore recommended that the savings banks
should consider the desirability of lower-
ing the maximum amounts on which
interest is paid for deposits at call, or
very short notice, and of encouraging
the conversion of any excess over this
maximum into fixed-deposits with them-
selves.
If that recommendation were sound
then, how much sounder it is today!
The unfortunate end of the N. S. Wales
Government Savings Bank is still fresh
in the minds of many. These banks in-
vest the greater part of their funds in
Commonwealth loans and, in the event
of a sudden demand by depositors for
the return of their money, are forced,
of necessity, to realise on those bonds.
Flooding the market with huge amounts
of them, in an effort to raise the wind,
has the inevitable effect of forcing prices
down, as the commissioners of the
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
quickly found out.
Despite all that, what do we find today?
An advertisement in a current news-
paper stating that the State Savings Bank
of Victoria has raised the interest-bear-
ing limit on ordinary accounts from
£lOOO to £l5OO and is offering an interest-
rate of 2\ per cent. p.a. on amounts up
to £5OO and li per cent. p.a. on the
excess up to £l5OO. To receive an
interest-rate of If per cent, from a trad-
ing bank the money has to be fixed for
a term of two years.
It would be interesting to know why
the action has been taken, seeing that
deposits stand at record figures, and
whether the commissioners consider that
conditions today are so different from
those ruling at the time of the Royal Com-
mission that not only can the commis-
sion’s recommendations be ignored but
the opposite course taken. —Ceg (Vic.).
After-hours Drinking
Among rackets, there’s nothing harder
to suppress in N.Z. than after-hours
trade in hotels up and down the country ;
it is carried on in many places in sight
of the police and with an air of respect-
ability which makes the law a joke. It’s
as much a part of N.Z. life as book-
making, tax-dodging and car-profiteering,
all equally reprehensible yet widely prac-
tised, with only an occasional offender
dragged before the courts. There’s noth-
ing to choose morally between these
different forms of vice.
Every now and again hotel-licensees
find themselves up against a particularly
zealous member of “the force” who
won’t turn a blind-eye, but generally they
have no trouble in getting : away with
it. In the odd case where a Bobby has
made things too hot for a licensee and
has had the backing of the court, he has
lost a lot of friends, some of them in
uniform, as a few constables told the
Police Commission of Inquiry.
Over on the West Coast and down in
Central Otago, both areas more-or-less
lousy with small pubs established away
back in the gold-rush days, lawbreaking
is an old habit, and apparently will con-
tinue until enough struggling hotels are
culled out to leave the rest able to make
a decent living on the straight and level.
Whatever the rest of N.Z. does, it’s
common on the Coast to keep open till
11 p.m., and no secrecy about it. The
publican would,have no chance of pay-
ing his way if he closed his doors at
six-o’clock. So they give service for five
hours after the official closing-time.
One in the business at Greymouth
gave the commission his opinion like
this: “The hotels on the Coast are more
like clubs than the ordinary run of
pubs in the rest of N.Z. They follow
English and European patterns. On
good nights anywhere between 70 to 80
men are in the bar.” Cut out the night-
trade and he’d be sunk; so would others.
Not long ago the Licensing Control
Commission shrugged its shoulders and
admitted that “drinking mischiefs”
baffled it. Conditions, it said, were often
“uncivilised and unhygienic.” After-
hours trading was common in many rural
districts, isolated places and small town-
ships, where the law governing hours for
selling liquor was “in disrepute and con-
tempt.” The only way to make drinking
respectable, the commission told the
Government, was to make it leisurely
and comfortable —which meant longer
hours and more space —and, at the same
time, to make it a sideline to eating. If
the hours can’t be enforced they should
be amended, but the commission can’t
do anything about this; it has no power
to change the law. —C. C, F. (N.Z.).
Flats
' There certainly is a prejudice against
flats in Australia (B. 16/6/’54), and it’s
a good thing there is. Flats are perpen-
dicular slums.
On a unit basis they are cheaper to
construct than houses and will accom-
modate more families in less space. But
that lack of space is the main objection
to them. For business couples or elderly
people they may be excellent, but for
young couples raising a family they can
be disastrous.
It is unfair, even harmful, to bring-up
children in flats. Kids must have a
normal, boisterous life, and they can’t
have it if they’re cooped in a flat on a
third- or fourth-floor.
Most Australians like to tinker about
in the garden, with varying success, and
the 40-hour week has given them the
time to do it. What would they do if
condemned to living in flats?
The movement in this country gt pre-
sent is away from overcrowded areas —
voting-figures for the last Federal elec-
tion showed a considerable shift from
the inner-city to the outer. It was not
merely a movement from one centre to
another, but a general spreading over a
number of places. That’s a good move,
so why go against it by concentrating
people'in flats?— Wackford (N.S.W.).


The heroic story of
DOUGLAS BADER
REACH FOR THE SKY
By PAUL BRICKHILL
The Story of a Triumph—-in the Book of the Year
Illustrated, 21s. OdL
Available at all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
FACE OF AUSTRALIA
by CHARLES LASERON
Second edition of “ a rich and
stimulating study of Australian geology,
and a major contribution to our know-
ledge of Australia.” (Sydney ' Morning
Herald). The author unfolds the fas-
cinating adventure story of Nature
shaping a Continent, describing the
history and gradual shaping of Australia’s
natural wonders. 38 magnificent photo-
graphs- 21/- (post 7d.)
PARISH OF ST. MEL’S
by JOHN O’BRIEN
A new collection of verse by the author
of Around the Boree Log, Like his
earlier poems, their appeal is direct to
the heart. Here he unites the old themes
with the new . . . the Old Bush School,
with the modern world of motor cars.
Fine illustrations by Bonar Dunlop.
12/6 (post 5d.)
Write , 9 phone or call in for these, or any other books you need—-you’ll find them all at . - •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.I.
cricket, exact definition of which is not
given.
Coarse-cricket is generally played on a
Sunday by the middle-aged and obese.
There are, however, usually one or two
more-youthful members of the side who,
in the nearest hostelry after the match,
are, as Spike puts it, apt to indulge in the
good-natured pastime of pinching the
landlord’s daughter of The Cricketers’
backside —thus adding to the worries of
the team’s captain-organiser.
The woes and anxieties of this harassed
gentleman take up a good part of the
book, and it is hardly exaggeration to
say they possibly outdo those of any
touring Test captain. The fact that as
vital a part of coarse-cricket as bat and
ball is the lashins of ale drunk before,
during and after the game helps in vari-
ous ways to irk the c. 0., even though,
without it, coarse-cricket could scarcely
be the staggering influence it is in the
community today.
Spike Hughes, it seems, is a broad-
caster and (like another celebrated
cricket-wrifer) a music-critic. In his
present innings (or perhaps the coarse-
cricket term would be outings) he is very
ably partnered by artist Antony Wysard
—also, apparently, a coarse-cricketer of
some renown. The Wysard contributions
to the score include a recurring bands-
man out of whose tuba pop cricket-balls
and various doubtful contents of tubas.
Each of the five chapters is numbered by
the figure being raised to a scoreboard.
Chapter J by a baby, Chapter V by a
greybeard in a wheelchair ; and there’s
a most irreverent picture of Eve trund-
ling-up an apple to a bearded, padded
and otherwise only fig-leafed Dr. Grace
shaping-up with a waddy. And there
isn’t a solitary statistic in the whole work.
Mathematical Surprises
The general idea is that mathematics
is rather a dry subject and that mathema-
ticians must be passionless people. In
Men of Mathematics (Penguin Books:
Pelican: 2 vols.), E. T. Bell dispels that
notion in a series of vigorous descriptions
of the fives of the great mathematicians,
many of whom only mathematicians must
have heard of.
It seems that every original mathema-
tician, from Zeno to Einstein, has lived
much the same tortured life as the great
artists, has had the same misunderstand-
ing and opposition, similar jealousies for
and from other mathematicians, been
subject to the same fanatical loves and
hatreds, and if none of them actually got
the hemlock, a lot came perilously near
the rack or the thumbscrew.
Pythagoras, who had preached that
God himself was “number,” was com-
pletely humiliated and devastated when
he made the discovery that the common
whole-numbers 1,2, 3 were insufficient
for the construction of mathematics even
in the rudimentary form in which he
knew it, so he had either to throw away
God or throw away mathematics.
Archimedes, like Newton, left his
meals untouched when he was deep in
his calculations, and when he made his
famous discovery that a floating body
loses in weight an amount equal to that
of the liquid displaced, he leapt from the
bath in which he had made the discovery
by observing his own floating body, and
dashed naked through the streets of
Syracuse shouting “Eureka!” He had
discovered the first law of hydrostatics.
Newton- was only incidentally in-
terested in mathematics; he put what he
considered his most serious efforts into
trying to prove that the prophecies of
Daniel made sense and that the dates in
the Old Testament harmonised with those
of history, just as Descartes, the gentle-
man qnd soldier after the D’Artagnan
fashion who was the author of analytical
geometry, was torn between his belief
in the infallibility of the Pope and his
complete conviction of the truth of the
Copernican system. When he heard that
Galileo, in the seventieth year of his age,
had been given over to the Inquisition he
was stunned. He had just written a book
in which he expounded the Copernican
system. It was impossible for him to give
up either Copernicus or the Pope, so he
decided not to allow his book to be
published until after his death.
From the age of 17 until his death at
39 Pascal was as sick and tortured as
Van Gogh. Acute dyspepsia made his
days a torment and insomnia his nights
half-waking nightmares. His meditations
on philosophy and mathematics alter-
nated with bloody sprees of soldiering,
in one of which he so distinguished him-
self that the Duke of Savoy wanted to
make him a lieutenant-general. He got
into a relationship with his unmarried
sister and drove her into a nunnery and
himself into the frenzy of religious exal-
tation that produced the “Pensees.” If
he had not been an inveterate gambler
he would doubtless never have thought
of his theory of mathematical probabili-
ties, which is the foundation of modern
physical science and the ramifications of
which are everywhere, from epistemology
to the quantum-theory.
Gauss, who is as important to mathe-
maticians as Archimedes and Newton,
and who still lives everywhere in mathe-
matics, was the son of a German brick-
layer and canal-tender whose first school
was a relic of the Middle Ages run by a
tough brute who thrashed his charges
into such a state of terrified stupidity
that they forgot their own names. Gauss
became a thorn in the side of Napoleon,
who rather fancied himself in mathe-
matics and had a crude appreciation of
their value in military matters, but hadn’t
the foggiest notion of what they meant
to the pure masters of the subject.
Poncelet—projective geometry was his
contribution—did all his thinking on the
subject after he had marched as a young
officer of the Grand Armee half across.
Russia and had been forced into a cell
on whose walls he drew his diagrams with
a piece of charcoal salvaged from the
tiny brazier which kept him from freez-
ing to death.
Laplace seems to have been one of the
few mathematicians who were relatively
happy. The son of a peasant, he was an
inveterate snob and worked his barrow
so successfully that he was able to hold
public office under one regime after an-
other all through the period of the Revo-
lution, changing his politics as easily
as he changed his linen and ending as
a marquis, but never relaxing for an
instant on his job of applying the New-
tonian law to the entire solar-system.
French Prize Novel
Serge Groussard won the Prix Femina
with The Woman With No Past (Hamish
Hamilton), and novels accorded this
honor are usually worth reading This
example is hampered by one of those
stilted translations which, in trying to
reproduce idioms of the uneducated,
resort to a limping, lifeless English speech
that sounds absurd.
The story is simple, depending for its
interest on subtle interplay of emotional
situations, the conflicts occurring in a
steam-barge plying canals of rural France.
The action is confined to five days, the
characters who have any importance to
three people.
Master of the barge Berpeuse is Malard,
a strong, good-looking, semi-literate
widower in early middle-age. Malard
comes from a family of barge-workers,
as does his mate, Jean-Jean. Young,
surly, engaged ,to be Jean-Jean
is resentful at the company’s 'refusal to
give him a barge of his own. As the
story begins he and Malard are a good
team.
Open conflict comes when Malard
gives sanctuary to a woman who is
obviously in flight from something. She
calls herself “Helene” and is bound for
Paris. Having missed her train, time no
longer matters to her —it had been im-
portant that she should reach Paris on
that particular day ; now it is only im-
portant that she gets there eventually.
She is neither especially beautiful nor
attractive, but men find her seductive
and neither Jean-Jean nor Malard is an
exception. Malard becomes her lover,
and Jean-Jean becomes their enemy.
Gradually the girl’s immediate past is
revealed by events and deduction, until
Jean-Jean knows her secret. Helene
comes to love Malard. Malard and
Helene are well aware that their time
for happiness is brief and clouded, and
this awareness, along with Jean-Jean’s
hostility and the sultry, enervating heat
of midsummer which emphasises their
nervous strain, results in a most convinc-
ing acceleration of tension. The tale ends
sadly and inconclusively, but quite inevit-
ably—one of those rather hopeless little
stories which really require more grace
of style to make them acceptable than
this translation offers.
Country Town
E. M. England’s House of Bondage
(Dymocks) is a matrimonial one, a sort
of Holy Deadlock set in and around a
Queensland country town, with a roman-
tic interest and a happy ending and a
bunch of intellectuals called “Guiness’s
Galaxy”—-the editor of the local paper
and his friends —who are not very con-
vincing. ,
As often in Australian novels these
characters are interesting not so much
for what they are as for what they might
be. If they are imperfectly delineated,
they are recognisably figures in the Aus-
tralian landscape ; not large or important
figures, perhaps, but still —there. Per-
haps they have a sort of left-handed sig-
nificance, the intellectual in a country
town being a not-implausible symbol of
the creative writer in Australia; both
closer to the earth than English or
American writers and susceptible to the
parochialism and false culture of small
communities.
Whether the symbolism in House of
Bondage is deliberate or not, the small-
town intellectuals have this secondary
interest. But for them to come alive
something of the razor-edge balance of
satire and sympathy Sinclair Lewis
brought to bear in Main Street and, more
successfully, in Babbitt, is required.
Lewis himself succeeded only partly with
the doctor’s wife in Main Street. But
the street itself—which is to say the
town—-is created from such minutite of
observation, with such a scrupulous
balancing of forces, such a procession
of tiny conflicts, that movement is sus-
tained and augmented; and from this
orderly flood of movement the town
emerges, a synthesis of detail, a bulk, a
dramatic character.
There is nothing of this in House of
Bondage. The intellectuals are taken too
seriously; their conversation reads at
times like extracts from a course in adult
education; and the background is so
sketchy that it was only towards the
end of the book that this reader rea-
lised that a vital part of the scenery, tbs
property Merrilands, was a dairy farm.
The husband, if not quite convincing as
a dairyfarmer, behaves with a consistent
and studied swinishhess that makes him
glow with malignant life before the
pale Galaxy: then, in the last or second-
last chapter, he acts out of character.
The wife’s dilemma—freedom or her
child—is solved by an extraordinary
mechanism by which she is enabled to
enjoy child, property and lover to boot,
all in perfect respectability.
The mechanism is a secret brought out
of the past; but, unconvincing as the
device is, there is in the flashback-story
of a girl left by her lover to die in the
desert, amid some melodrama, a touch,
a flash, of tragic feeling, of the bitter-
ness of betrayal. It shines oddly in its
setting.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 284
Across
I—Home-made Scotch nonsense is a
help to smugglers. (9)
7 —Athenian general and statesman,
son of Miltiades, mislays his
comic. (5)
9—Sound imitates Goossens. and
Tosca thought she had them.
(4-8)
11—German river (whether with bul-
rushes or not) is the beginning
and end of Miriam. (3)
13—The allegretto’s middle plume-
producer. (5)
J4 —Training vessel cub serves it on
a newspaper. (9)
16—Mad expert beaten over the skull.
(5-7)
20—Pertaining to the shoulder and
back of Hamilton who explored
Rodney or Sarah. (6-6)
24 —Harvest cut fifty to dress once
more the disorderly paper earl. (9)
28— Australian town may perhaps bill
with the parent also. (5)
29 Garland coins of Rumania. (3)
30— Solidly shod Edward is urged to
produce the boo by itself. (6-6)
32 —French province mentioned in the
German journal. (5)
—Leave fishing equipment for a
large bony fish. (6-3)
Down
1 — Interlocked me and the outhouse.
(6)
2 University offers two kinds of
power, ancient and modern. (6)
3 Greek architectural order. (5)
4 English Church Union is in the
money. (3)
5 Concoct etudes with such a
musical ensemble in the middle.
(5)
6 It takes more than one club to
beat a Digger. (3, 5)
B—lsland manuscript is introducing
various political and religious
doctrines. (4)
10 —Who looks after feeding a gossip
and the Queen double. (7)
12~Eschew a parade-ground cry? (4)
15 —Exclude broken bread. (5)
17 — Raced into the wood. (5)
18 — Napoleon’s birthplace. (7)
19 — Yard shut just in time. (8)
21— —Powdered grain feed. (4)
22 — Play the flute and sound the horn
to the French. (6)
23 — Shingle the little boy with a shoe.
(6)
25 — Poe’s made of money. (4)
26 — Fabric vexation. (5)
27 — What do they do who are lying
in wait for the stork. (3, 2)
31—Curve. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 283


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd,, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
, ■ ■' V'.'--'v ■': l •
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a FAIT* ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
June
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
“NEW DEAL” NEEDED FOR THE
DAIRYING INDUSTRY
One of Australia’s most important industries languishes under the pressure of record costs
and a lack of support and encouragement that is urgently needed.
The re-introduction of a 40 p.c. Initial Depre-
ciation allowance to encourage the purchase of
new machinery is a long-awaited necessity.
But this and many other factors which contri-
bute to high costs are beyond the control of
members of the Dairying Industry. It is impera-
tive, therefore, that equipment modernization
and efficient methods are used to control the
direct costs within the industry.
Many avenues of improvement are open to the
Dairyman .... Wide use of new pasture and
stock improvement practices will help to lower
costs by increasing productivity per head of
dairy cattle. A highly successful technique
used in conjunction with “strip” grazing is a
system of regular harrowing to spread cattle
droppings. Special harrows which distribute
dung without tearing up the sod mean that the
full manurial advantage is gained from cattle
droppings. Left untouched, cattle pads actually
condemn a large proportion of grazing pad-
docks to rank unpalatable grasses. Unfor-
tunately, this is the rule rather than the excep-
tion in Australia.
“Strip-grazing,” that is, the limiting of grazing
cattle to a portion of a paddock with the aid of
a portable fence, together with harrowing, has
been shown to improve the use of feed by
about thirty-three and one-third per cent.
On the McGarvie-Smith Experimental Farm,
near Liverpool (N.S.W.), cows grazed by the
strip-farming method returned a regular aver-
age of 2f gallons of high quality milk a day
during a recent test.
A most necessary step to increasing yield, and
lower costs, is, of course, the installation of
modern Milking Machinery. This allows greater
time at pasture through faster handling, while
cutting labor and effort.
N.Z. BEATS AUSTRALIA
TO BIG JAP BUTTER
EXPORT MARKET ...
A recent report states that a drop in sales of
Australian Butter has been suffered' in Japan
in favour of the New Zealand product.
Of similar quality, New Zealand butter has
gained in popularity since a large proportion of
a recent Australian shipment was found to be
tainted.
However, another angle on the Japanese
market, and other markets for our butter, is
the strong competition from the Danish pro-
duct. Wrapped in Silver-paper, and priced at
about 7/2 sterling per lb, as against Australian
butter’s price of about 8/- per lb., it keeps
better in Japan’s hot and humid summer
climate.
Some people did not buy Danish butter because
of its stronger flavour, but for many the saving
in price outweighed the disadvantage of not-
so-smooth flavour.
There seems little doubt that we’ll have
stronger competition than ever in the future
from Scandinavian Dairy Products in the world
markets, but Australia can meet this competi-
tion given the right assistance and guidance by
Government and Departmental Officers.
START THE NEW SEASON WITH
AUSTRALIA’S MOST UP-TO-DATE
MILKING MACHINERY
The choosing of new Machinery for the Man-on-the-land is not an easy task. The selection of
equipment best suited to his requirements is important from an investment point of view as well
as for speeding up the work and correct handling of the herd.
If the machine is too large, or too powerful, it may handle the work easily, but not cheaply. If
it is too intricate, too clumsy, or too small, it is again a losing proposition. For that reason, it is
important to seek expert advice before installing any plant.
After years of research and practical testing,
Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, can confidently state that
the Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine fulfils the
need of the dairyman throughout Australia.
The statement that a Milking Machine will pay
for itself can be backed with actual proof. In
speeding up the milking and allowing the cows
a longer grazing period, they naturally produce
greater quantities of milk.
By the farmer having more hours available for
better farming, he feeds his cows better. The
ease with which the dairyman can milk his cows
with Moffat-Virtue machines allows the run-
ning of one or two more cows, and these items
more than pay for machines and give the
buyer a good return on his investment.
The “essence” of the Moffat-Virtue plant is
simplicity—in operation, dismantling for clean-
ing, and in maintenance. With its few working
parts, maintenance is cut to a minimum and
wear is practically unknown. The simplicity
of the Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine allows
for less load on your engine or motor, whilst
its cleanliness is known right throughout the
Industry. The Releaser of the Moffat-Virtue
Milking Machine is noted for its cleanliness.
Here is the dependable machine that gets the
milking done faster, saves washing-up time,
costs less to buy and less to run. When you
own a Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine you’ll
have more time to devote to many other im-
portant jobs, such as fencing, repairs, plough-
ing, harrowing, etc. In a hundred ways you’ll
This illustration shows a typical layout of the compact, space-savins Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine.
Its simplicity and convenience are clearly visible .... it’s no exaggeration to say that a child could
operate it. Get the full story about Australia’s most up-to-date Milking Machine now.
notice when you get your monthly cheque, the
new, simplified Moffat-Virtue Milker certainly
pays dividends.
Never before in the history of the Dairying
Industry has its future depended so much on
keeping rising costs at bay. That’s why Moffat-
Virtue Ltd., urge you to consider the advan-
tages of the installation of new Machinery now.
Easy terms are available for the purchase of
Moffat-Virtue Milking Machines, and sound,
expert advice may be obtained from any of
the State Distributors at the foot of this page.
