

THE HOUSE
e
F S
PRODUCERS
O F
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
ROYAL PURPLE
GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
HER LADYSHIP THE *
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3888
Wednesday, August 18, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
MAGNIFICENT ASTON HALL IS A BIRMINGHAM MUSEUM
nnHE great industrial city of Birmingham, which covers an area pf eighty
X square miles, is fortunate in possessing many parks and open spaces
which together cover well over 4,000 acres. One of the principal parks .
Aston situated on the northern outskirts of the city, where the centre of
attraction is Aston Hall, a great Jacobean mansion which now serves as a
mUS Onginally the house belonged to Sir Thomas Holte, who built it between
1618 and 1635, but it was acquired by the Corporation of Birmingham
1864, In saving for posterity this fine example of an early f
Birmingham set an example which has since been widely followed itißritei .
Many municipalities today are the owners of fine houses used for muse
and art galleries which they acquired by gift or purchase.
Before bein<r acquired by Birmingham, however, Aston Hall and its
extensive park had been in the possession of the Holte family.
year 1367 they had been lords of the manor at Aston, and they were people
of some influence in the county. , .
Aston Hall, designed by the architect John Thorpe, was built in an age
when other great houses such as Audley End, Burton Hatfield and
Blickling Hall were being constructed. All were built, luce Aston, ot red
brick with stone dressings. The main front of Aston, which is E-shaped,
is dominated by three lofty towers * weal J h f °^ utch gabk *
Thp centre doorway has a tablet bearing the Holte coat-oi arms.
The inside of this great mansion is no less impressive than its exterior,
ine instoe 01 u ej f , before the Battle of Edgehill m
October Tfi42 by a palatial bedroom which bears his
Jame The Great GaOcry is 137 feet long, 16 feet wide, wuh oak-
nanelied walls 18 feet high, is only surpassed in grandeur by that at Haddon
nnd Hardwick Halls The most outstanding feature of Aston, however, is
Grand sLcase which rises to the full height ot the house m a not
nf exuberant carving and is considered one of the finest in Britain. The
walls and balustradef of this splendid staircase still bear the marks of cannon-
shot fired by Parliamentarian troops when they besieged Aston Hall in 1643
dnr ng the CivU War The siege lasted three days before the house was
cammed and pillaged; its owner, Sir Thomas Holte, who was a stout Royahst,
the Wnc? (Sort were entertained in the
Great o Drawingroom at Aston Hall and the Queen inaugurated the manston
and its park as a place of public recreation.


Learn
e
EHSSE3
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“1 have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B.C. ’
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
fcMidfflfflWßl
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth
■CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send mo, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full .particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NA.MII
address
(S.B. 3 554) ■■■■ ■; ■ AGE
The Red Page
FEWER BOOKS PUBLISHED
.In the ill-winds of war and depression
publishing in Australia was stimulated by
the shortages of money for purchases
from overseas. It had been thought that
this would result in permanent strength,
but the 1953 issue of the Annud Cata
logue of Australian Publications disclose
that the output of Australian titles is fall
ing.
The catalogue, published by the Com
monwealth National Library, is now up
to-date for the first time for several years
making it of greater reference-value
Many of the books now listed wer
omitted from previous issues, and perhap
books which should have been included
have been missed on this occasion. The
Commonwealth Librarian, H. L. White
remarks in his introduction that, although
the Copyright Act seeks to ensure a com-
plete collection of Australian publications
the completeness and ultimate value ol
this collection largely depends on the
co-operation of authors and publishers.
Rising costs have probably caused the
structure of Australian publishing to
revert to something very like its pre-war
form, or like that in Britain 150 years
ago. There are very few firms in this
country engaged in full-time publishing,
and the war-time gains have not been
maintained. There is a list of Australian
publishers of two or more books in the
catalogue, excluding private individuals
and organisations and institutions whose
publications are subsidiary to their other
activities. Only 40 names, plus two
inter-State branches, appear on it. Of
these, 19 are in Sydney, 18 in Melbourne
and three in Adelaide. Perth has one and
Brisbane one. Hobart does not appear.
All is fish for the catalogue’s net, so
that works of high literary standing appear
alongside the names of publications on
food, football and primitive Methodists.
Reprints and new editions of old works
can be misleading. The reader who finds
nearly a page devoted to listing books of
poetry discovers that Keats and Coleridge
are included, as well as Brennan, Fitz-
Gerald and Wright.
Fiction also gets about a page, but not
far away from Hungerford’s Riverslake
appears the name of L. M. Montgomery,
followed by four of the Anne books
making their first Australian appearance
after about half a century of popularity
among some children in their American
editions. There are 16 biographies listed.
The total number of books recorded,
excluding official publications, annuals
and periodicals, was 516 (including 265
in N.S.W. and 164 in Victoria), but this
was painfully less than the 627 in 1952,
688 in 1951, and 745 in 1950. The 106
classified as “imaginative literature” were
about average in number, but the 34
books of Australian poetry compared with
only 14 in 1952 and 26 in 1951. Fiction
was down to 42 (in 1950 the total was 87),
and “humor and miscellany” could claim
only four, compared with 11 in 1952.
Social sciences had also shown a pro-
gressive decrease, which may, of course,
be an indication of better times. The
1953 total was 97, compared with 124
in 1953, and 151 in 1950.
Travel, biography and history
accounted for 81 books last year, which
was six more than the previous year but
19 less than in 1951. Overseas reprints
totalled 42, compared with 70 in 1952,
83 in 1951 and 121 in 1950, and there
were only 13 Australian reprints, a slight
falling-off compared with recent years.
Out of the total of last year’s books,
only 287 were published by the 40 listed
publishers, 132 by societies and institu-
tions, 52 by firms which produced only
single volume, and 45 by private indi-
viduals. Of the listed publishers, nin
produced ten or more books each in th
year, and twelve produced between five
and ten books.
Translations overseas of Australian
authors are an important feature of the
catalogue. Two of Jon Cleary’s books
have been translated into French (and one
into American, perhaps by way of New
York Pocketbooks), and Nevil Shute’s
Round the Bend also appeared in
French edition. Close’s Love Me Sailor
appeared in German, and Prichard’s
Golden Mile was published in Warsaw in
Polish.
When present writer saw Mr. White
for a comment on the publishing outlook
he expressed regret that the war-time
impetus to Australian publishers had not
been maintained, but said that 1953 had
been a “well-balanced year,” with many
important works. Regarded from the
standpoint of serious literature on Aus-
tralian life and development, it had been
one of the best years on record—a vintage
year. Fiction had not been outstanding,
and the year’s best-known book had been
Riverslake.
He added that although the number of
books had decreased, there had been an
encouraging improvement in the format
of-books published in this country. The
technical standard of book-production
was making tremendous strides. The
typography and binding were excellent,
as proved by the booklet which the pub-
lishers had issued for their annual dinner
describing the twelve “best*’ books (from
the format aspect) for the year. Before
the war this had not been the case, with
a few exceptions, but now Australian
books compared favorably with any made
overseas.
Better-quality paper was being used,
and used well, and typefaces were good
and varied.
He would not comment on the effect
of the tariff on the use of better papers.
When it was suggested to him that those
works lumped under the heading of
“official publications” were still as dull in
appearance and format as their prede-
cessors of the last half-century, in spite of
examples of merit issued by the British
Stationery Office and by private enter-
prise, he smiled.
CHARLES MEEKING.
Everyman Additions
Among a batch of Everyman’s Library
books are two new ones, 995 and 996
(soon, like Penguins, they will have
reached their thousandth). Napoleon’s
Letters, translated and edited by J. M.
Thompson (first published in 1934), is
995 ; opening it at random on page 75
we find that master of prose condoling
with Madame Brueys from his head-
quarters in Cairo:
Your husband was killed by a cannon-
ball whilst fighting aboard his ship. He died
honorably, and without suffering, as every
soldier would wish to die. Your sorrow
touches me to the quick. It is a dreadful
moment when we are parted from one we
love. It shuts us off from the w0r1d....
But when second thoughts supervene, and
you press your children to your heart, your
nature is revived by tears and tenderness,
and you live for the sake of your off-
spring. .. .And when you have linked your
soul to the world again through the mutual
affection of mother and child I want you
to count as of some value my friendship,
and the lively interest 1 shall always take
in the wife of my friend
Noble, eh? If a trifle imperious.
Touching. Next letter, to General Ber-
thier;
Instruct the officer in command of the
place to decapitate all prisoners taken with
arms in their hands. They are to be taken
to-night to the bank of the Nile between
Boulaq and Old Cairo; and their headless
bodies are to be thrown into the river.
That is the complete communication.
Quel homme ! And 996 is Persian Poems,
an Anthology, edited by A. J. Arberry,
Professor of Arabic at Cambridge. This
is a handsome helping of Persian, begin-
ning with the first and fourth editions of
Fitz Gerald’s translations of Khayyam, and
going on to some quatrains of Rumi, in
translations which show that Professor
Arberry is no slouch at the business;
Thou who lovest, like a crow,
Winter's chill and winter's snow,
Ever exiled from the vale’s
Roses red, and nightingales:
Take this moment to thy heart!
When the moment shall depart,
Long thou’lt seek it .as it flies
With a hundred lamps and eyes.
The translations are by 25 Englishmen
and women from Stephen Weston, born
1747, to the Professor, born 1905, and
there are 25 poets represented, from Jami
(a.d. 817-92) to Shahriyar, Tavallali,
Yasmi, Khanlari and Gulchin, who are
contemporaries, the last a doctor practis-
ing in London: he begins, in the Pro-
fessor’s translation:
the curtain fell . . . behind the veil of
mystery
moved the beginning of another mummery
the undulations of the brain valley and hill
the chiaroscuro playing of a fantastic will
and thou in the midst of it sweet as a rose’s
scent....
There are didactic pieces as sharp and
well characterised as Fontaine, a Sohrab
and Rustum story from the epic-writer
Firdausi, Fitz Gerald’s translation of the
“Bird Parliament” by Attar —in all, an
extremely lush garden.
With these have come new printings of
Hughes’s Chinese Philosophy in Classical
Times (973), selections from Confucius,
born about 551 b.c., to Wang Ch’ung,
died about a.d. 97; Edward William
Lane’s detailed and illustrated commen-
tary on The Manners and Customs of the
Modern Egyptians (315); Carlyle’s Sartor
Resartus and On Heroes and Hero-
Worship in one volume (278); Dickens’s
Hard Times with an introduction by
Chesterton (292); and Daudet’s Tartarin
of Tarascon and Tartarin on the Alps in
one volume (423) —the story of a
19th-century French Don Quixote who
went off to be a hero in Morocco, and had
an anything-but-Quixotic adventure with
a young lady foisted upon him on his
travels. The second story is an amusing
skit on mountaineering and the immense
bravery of the hero who is under the
impression that the dangers have been
faked by his guides.
More Penguins
The Penguin people are to be thanked
for The Legacy of the Ancient World, by
W. G. de Burgh, issued in a fat Pelican
edition. The depth and breadth of this
monumental task of scholarship makes
any real review a hopeless proposition,
but anybody who wants to have on his
shelves a compact history of Israel,
Greece and Rome, a wonderfully concise
but satisfying account of the development
of their thought, and a synthesis demon-
strating that the separate contribution of
these three races is the condition of our
modern Christendom, should regard these
two volumes as an essential part of his
literary equipment.
John Wyndham’s The Day of the
Triffids is H. G. Wells in the modern
idiom and even more entertaining. Told
by one of the few sighted survivors of a
world of people rendered blind by an astral
phenomenon, the struggle to survive in
an England taken possession of by a lethal
plant-form which has developed the
capacity for movement and co-ordination
is as thrilling and as completely plausible
as Wells’s War of the Worlds. The charac-
ters are really alive and many social
problems are posed which demonstrate
what a thin veneer is civilisation.
Trio, by Dorothy Baker, is an unusual
novel with an extraordinary and vaguely
irritating method of narration. Arnold
Bennett initiated it when he devoted the
whole first chapter of one of his Five
Towns novels to describing how his
heroine stepped onto a chair, then onto
a table, lit the gas and stepped back onto
the chair and then onto the floor. Miss
Baker does the same with the lighting of
a cigarette, which her characters do on
every possible occasion, but she has more
psychological insight than Arnold Bennett.
Both paint a. picture, .but with the English
author you are left wondering about why
he did it, whereas with the American you
are left wondering about the picture.
A girl has an emotional attachment to
a woman professor and is torn between
her and a young man who has taken a
fancy to her and who neither understands
the relationship between him and her or
her and the professor, and the battle ends
in despair and suicide. There is no
understanding in the story, but there is
a rare frankness and subtlety of descrip-
tion.
The Penguin Book of Modern
American Verse is beyond the competence
of this reviewer. Most of it is in the
idiom made fashionable by Ezra Pound,
Geoffrey Moore and Wallace Stevens and
no doubt brought across the Pond by
them after it had been made fashionable
in England by T. S. Eliot. On the surface
most of it looks and sounds much like
the immortal works of the late lamented
Era Malley, but a work of art cannot be
judged on its form, and the content may
be there, if one could understand it.
Ackerman’s Oxford, edited by H. M.
Colvin, is a King Penguin. Ackerman
was a draughtsman who, in 1814, set out
to describe pictorially Oxford, its “dream-
ing towers ,” its colleges, halls and public
buildings as they then were and mainly
aren’t now. The plates are well produced,
but unfortunately Ackerman was a
mediocre artist, and the sixteen color-
plates and eight black-and-white draw-
ings are only of historic interest.
Mervyn Skipper’s The Meeting Pool
first published in an English edition nearly
30 years ago and since in Czech, Finnish
and German, is among the Puffins. The
Borneo animals originally drawn by R W
Coulter, largely from stuffed examples in
Sydney Museum, have been redrawn by
Sheila Hawkins, an Australian artist liv-
ing in London. She has done quite a nice
job.
X.
Englishman in Siam
Siam—Leigh Williams (“Bangkok Bill”)
reminds us in Jangle Prison (Andrew
Melrose) —is a part of the world of some
current interest:
The tonic effect of their newly won inde-
‘pendence may immunise India and Pakistan
for a time; but China is overrun and
South-East Asia lies dangerously exposed.
Already grave symptoms have appeared in
Burma, Indo-China, Malaya and Indonesia.
Paradoxically enough, the only healthy spot
in the midst of an infested area is our
friendly little ex-enemy, Siam, which is
stoutly resisting the Communist disease.
He who writes current history must
keep an eye on the currents; and,
although Jungle Prison was pub-
lished in London, in its revised
form, earlier this year, the por-
tions dealing with Communist influence
in South-East Asia have been
overtaken by the flood of events. Not
that what Mr. Williams writes is in any
way invalidated; merely sharpened.
For an Australian, at .the present time,
there is a certain wry amusement in read-
ing such warnings by an Englishman.
Rather like the harrowed toad being lec-
tured by a competent biologist. But in
fairness to the author (who has spent 20-
odd years teak-gathering in Siam) it
should be noted that he is a special kind
of Englishman. As is indicated by his
own account of his choice of a career:
At the end of four years at Oxford, where
I fear I was a member of that very numer-
ous class, the idle poor, I found myself
with no qualifications for a job beyond an
athletic “Blue” and a thirst for adventure.
There seemed no prospects of anything
better than becoming an “usher” in some
small school. Then, through a friend of
the family, I heard of a vacancy in a com-
pany working teak forests in Thailand.
They wanted a young man with more brawn
than brains. So I got the job.
The book was first published, under
the title “Green Prison,” in 1941. The
present “greatly enlarged and revised”
edition was published this year. This no
doubt explains, not only a certain “tacked-
on” appearance of the notes on recent
Siamese history, but a certain “dated”
quality of style and humor ; especially
the humor. The author somewhere com-
plains of a schoolboy level of conversa-
tion in clubs and messes —Kipling’s
“language of the Upper Form Remove.”
And, like Kipling, Williams himself falls
into it. At least, he doesn’t boast of it.
But on a different level—with some in-
congruities.—the author seems to belong
to another era. Presumably there are still
Englishmen knocking around in rough
parts of the world, simple, adventurous
fellows with no taste for diplomacy.
War II discovered millions of them, and,
more recently, Negley Farson found a
few in Africa. But from reading modern
English books (a few war-books the
exception), one would form the impres-
sion that they were a vanishing race;
and a reading of recent political history
might confirm the impression.
An outline of Siamese history and
politics is interesting, but sketchy. The
rest is mainly an account of the author’s
life in various jungle camps, interesting
enough, in a matter-of-fact way, but with
no inspired observation of animals,
plants, or. men. The elephants—particu-
larly the man-killers, which, because they
were valuable, were seldom destroyed;
handlers were paid extra money; and
so one dangerous animal could build up
an impressive tally of bonus-happy vic-
tims —are rather well done; and so are
isolated incidents, such as the destruction
of a man’s reason, overnight, by a drug
administered by a wandering Burmese.
But one has to dig for these things in an
impressive depth of solid information.
There are handsome photographs, and
a glossary. The book is something be-
tween a conscientious travel-book and a
personal story, and, for those with a taste
for such fare, is good value. The uncon-
scious portrait—the man behind the
words —is a little too shadowy to really
satisfy the student of character, but has
its own interest. With a good many
queries left unanswered. As, for instance,
why the author calls himself “Bangkok
Bill,” in parenthesis.


m
if
* I 111
i i:
* M t
' 1 S. *
m
*< \M
i '
■ : : n
r s
i v
Iff:
a i
a:
,| J
if, : «• «» ;%■ - : ; y;
, %«*< / ;y& \
\ :
s . ■:;■■;■*
* >
mm
\ , *\
f y
a
'
' :X: :s
SSSS
Si«>S3S
fl
Left: The “Macquarie” group in natural Queens-
land maple has suspension springs supporting
spring filled cushions and buttoned- cushions.
Settees from £4l, chairs from £26 according to
fabric selected from our wide range. Natural
Queensland maple tea table £ll/12/9. AlTwool
rug, 6x3, £l3/9/6.
Below: American style cushions from 20/-; black
iron candlesticks 18/11.
simple.
From our “Contemporary shop”...
Contemporary living today is the keynote of the Australian way of life! It’s a
“easy-to-live-with” way of living that brings a new beauty into the home. It’s
TROTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthtmy Horderns*
è
é
easy, because furniture is now
made to serve its purpose
and simplify our “work-a-day”
lives. Its clean-cut simplicity
retains its beauty throughout
years —forming an
appropriate background to changing
fashions in interior decoration!
m
m
I
f
mm
m
wm
m
:■/
K
wtM.
si
D
E. “Flinders” divan in Queensland maple which has
spring filled mattress and buttoned cushions is made in
our own factory. Priced from £42, according to fabric
chosen.
A. Natural coachwood dining table,
size 4ft. 6in. x2ft, 6in., at £ll/18/5.
Imported bentwood chairs,
£6/17/10.
B. Natural Queensland maple gate
leg table, very handy for a small
room, is 4ft. x 2 ft. 6in., £3O/5/6.
C. Wing chairs in a wide selection of
interesting fabrics from £24 ea.
D. Wood baskets of cane and black
wrought iron, £5/11/3,
STORE OPENS
8.30 a.m.
Avail yourself of our handy
shopping hours. You can now
shop before going to the office
and keep the lunch hour free.
You can also come in and
have breakfast with your
friends at our Second Floor
Dining Room any morning
Monday to Friday 8.30-10
a.m. Moderate prices.
ê
WRITE DIRECT TO OUR CONTEMPORARY SHOP— anthony horderns-, box 2712, g.p.0., Sydney


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 18, 1954
Vol. 75 — No. 3888
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
‘Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE BENCH AND THE LAW
Australian public opinion is not easily aroused, but
there has been more than a stirring of feeling and
unease over the Doyey Commission in the Studley-
Ruxton case. There is reason for disquiet.
At the same time it is not only royal commissions
which call for the attention of Governments. The
general administration of justice in the Commonwealth
is far from satisfactory, and there is certainly room
for a convention to operate on an Australia-wide basis
to consider reform of the structure of the court system,
and particularly of the nature of the courts, the
appointment to the judiciary and magistracy and the
attainment of uniformity in laws as between States.
The court system has grown like a somewhat
ragged tree, and has sent out branches into the strangest
places in which the law flourishes, sometimes (as in the
days of Bligh) “under the banner of justice and right,
though whether its'standards are taken from the Jewish
or English laws, no direction is given.”
There are lower special courts which are little
better than departmental agencies for the collection
of revenue, in which, even if they were hydra-
headed Solons, the presiding-officers could not hear all
the causes brought before them, and in which, in any
case, the “criminals” charged with small offences
prefer to plead guilty and pay a few shillings for the
privilege of not having to waste a day defending
themselves. There are now, thanks to the reference
to special courts of illegal parking and suchlike
trivialities, types of offence of which it carries no stigma
to be convicted. And these are becoming so numerous
and conviction is becoming so normal a phenomenon
among groups of decent citizens that it is no wonder the
youth of Australia is beginning to lose its awe of
judicial proceedings and a large section to adopt the
falsely logical view that conviction before a court has
ceased to carry any disgrace.
This tendency is manifested in the current conven-
tion which seems to hold it no shame to be convicted
of dishonest evasion of income-tax, an adventure which
a few years ago would have endangered the culprit’s
employment and certainly have excluded him from
any public office of importance he might hold. If this
is no longer so, the system rather than the new
toughness of the public conscience is probably most to
blame, for so much judicial threat hangs over the
citizen in relation to income-tax offences, and the net
of criminality is so wide, that it is difficult for the most
decent taxpayers running a complex business to avoid
its* meshes
Australia is badly in need of a uniform court
system operating under uniform administration of the
law free of political - influence and a better - based
standard in the judiciary and magistracy.
It is absurd in a Commonwealth of 9,000,000
people that there should be six different divorce-laws
and six sets of divorce courts and six sets of criminal
laws, one codified —in Queensland—and the others not
so in anything like a full sense, and e'tch one operated
by a Government which has its own ideas about the
philosophy of crime and punishment.
It is more than absurd that murder should carry
the death penalty on one side of a border and that, not
half a mile away, the killer becomes subjected only to
such comfortable sentence as a bookmaker Minister,
or somebody of the calibre of perhaps Mr. Joe Arthur,
feels appropriate.
It is a scandalous infringement of all the ordinary
principles of justice that a murderer convicted in June
may be hanged, but that, if he manages to have his
appeal held over till July, a “Labor” Government may
have come into office and unconstitutionally suspended
the criminal law which applies to him, so that he can
be assured of nothing more uncomfortable than a
decade or so in jail.
Moreover, it is a grave matter that in these days
no judge can give a sentence in some States with a
feeling of confidence that it will be carried out. Judges
receive little support from the irresponsibles of some
Ministries in Australia who are charged with the
administration of justice.
It might be all to the good if criminal justice were
wholly federalised in Australia with a uniform criminal
law and a system of punishments which would apply
on the same scale and in the same way in Darwin as
in Melbourne,
A Federal circuit-court, whether criminal or civil,
would certainly carry a greater prestige than some of
the State courts now charged with the duty of dealing
out justice. There would be more chance of securing
a Bench of high standard, not to mention unity in the
administration of justice, through Federal appointment
and uniform laws, than through the present system,
which in some States is influenced far more by poli-
tical opportunism than by a due regard for the
quality and impartiality of the judiciary.
This might be more so if appointments were made
in closer consultation with legal governing bodies whose
members have an intimate knowledge of the capacity
and suitability of candidates for appointment instead
of by Cabinets advised by a Government department.
Whatever measures are called for, and however
opinion may differ as to what they should be, there
is certainly room for reform to remove the growing
uneasiness that all is not as it should be in the judicial
system and in the administration of justice and
punishment in parts of the Commonwealth.
The matter needs considering from the roots
upward. There is a great deal to be said for the reform
in the method of appointing magistrates as well as
me tubers of higher courts. The time has arrived where,
in large cities, they should no longer be appointed
necessarily from the ranks of civil servants. Their
responsibilities and their requisite knowledge of law 7
are certainly such as to dictate that they should be
carefully chosen with a due regard not only to tempera-
ment and experience of human nature, but also with
concern for their erudition in the law and training in its
practice.
The Parliament That Isn't
Whatever other complaints members of the New
South Wales Parliament may make about Premier
Cahill, they can’t accuse him of trying to kill them with
overwork. The Assembly sat on two days in February
both of them formal sittings occasioned by the
Royal tour —five in March and four in April. On
April 8 it adjourned “until Tuesday, June 15, 1954.”
When that date arrived the Assembly chamber
remained empty; Government members had more
important business to attend to—the A.L.P. conference
was in progress. No sittings were held during June,
nor during July, so that the total sitting days for the
first seven and a half months of the year remain at
11. The Council has met on six days.
Under the Cahills, Parliament is merely a place
where formal endorsement is given to decisions made
for it by the unrepresentative A.L.P. executive, and this
disregard and contempt for Parliament has its counter-
part in a contempt for the people who elected it.
After clinging to office for three years with a
majority of only one, the N. S. Wales “Labor” Govern-
ment won a comfortable victory on St. Valentine’s
Day last year by cashing-in on the hysteria aroused
by Federal “Labor’s” prediction of depression and
unemployment. They shamelessly jumped on the
bandwagon and succeeded in putting the blame for
their own mismanagement on the Menzies-Fadden
financial policies. The success of the move probably
surprised even Cahill.
There was one serious casualty, but he was soon
pronounced out of danger. This was the Minister
for Labor and Industry, F. J. Finnan, who, having been
redistributed out of two electorates and rejected by
the electors of a third, had, under the rules of the game
as played by “Labor,” to be compensated in some way.
The way was easily found ; Finnan was made chairman
of the Hunter District Water Board, at £2750 a year.
The appointment was the third of its kind made by
Cahill in his first year of office —ex-Premier McGrrrrr
had been promoted Admiral of the Maritime Services
Board before the ink was dry on his resignation, and
J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C., president of the A.L.P., had
been selected as the man whose outstanding qualities
fitted him above all others for the chairmanship of the
Milk Board.
After the victory Cahill proclaimed smugly:
Wo stated our policy in a frank, truthful and
decent manner and the Australian public has re-
sponded generously. Even in the hour of triumph I
am conscious of the great responsibility of this mag-
nificent trust reposed In us.
Until Cahill mentioned it no one had noticed the
frankness, truth and decency of his election-policy, but
no doubt it was there somewhere, hidden among the
creaking planks of his platfprm. If so, it wasn’t the
only thing successfully concealed there. A couple of
months later, while Cahill was coronating in London,
his deputy Heffron told an A.L.P. conference that the
Government intended to bring in a bill to compel all
salary- and wage-earners to join a union. In breaking
this news he said something which seemed to amplify
his leader’s victory speech about responsibilities.
We in Cabinet are not responsible to anyone
other than to the Tabor party and to the people who
returned us to power to carry out our policy.
The revelation that “Labor” considered itself
responsible only to the section that supported it and
not to the whole people told the public nothing new;
it was merely the frankness of the admission that was
novel, with its implication that after 12 years in office
“Labor” felt so secure that it could afford to drop all
pretence. On the hustings Premier Cahill had been
more discreet. His frank and truthful policy-speech
contained no reference to compulsory unionism.
Heffron’s promised gift was not received with the
unanimous cheers that might have been expected from
industrial “Labor.” Unions such as the Clerks’ and
Shop Assistants’ which stood to gain the most from it,
both in numbers and hard cash—and consequently in
influence in A.L.P. councils —at once recognised the
lofty statesmanship of the proposal. The A.W.U. was
not so sure; it realised that the gift could be a two-
edged tool. Compulsion implied the loss of the right
of rejection.
For a while it seemed that Cabinet had developed
cold feet over Heffron’s promise, but it was just a
matter of tactics. After mulling around for some time
it evolved a formula, and compulsory unionism became
law under the disguise of “absolute preference ” This
possibly was intended to answer the criticism that such
a measure conflicts with Clause 20 of the Declaration
of Human Rights, which says that “no one shall be
compelled to belong to an association.” Under the
Cahill Act po man is compelled to join a union • it is
just that he cannot get a job unless he does so There
is no compulsion in that; after all, a man is free to
starve if he so chooses.
Another matter not mentioned by Cahill in his
policy-speech, but not overlooked after his victory
was municipal reform. Late last year, just before the
municipal elections, “Labor” introduced proportional-
representation, allegedly “because it was the only
democratic method of voting,” but really because it
enabled the executive to control selection of candidates
much more easily and surely than the ward-system and
preferential voting. At the same time provision was
made for the Lord Mayor of Sydney to be elected by
popular vote, although in every other municipality in
the State the mayor was still to be chosen by the
aldermen from among themselves.
It was about this time that Cahill brought in a
bill that was condemned by every newspaper in Aus-
tralia and by most papers in Britain as retrograde and
tyrannous. This was the Sydney City Council (Dis-
closures of Allegations) Act, generally described as the
Press Gag Act. It followed a series of Press demands
for a royal commission into allegations of bribery
involving some members of the City Council, and it
was designed to make newspaper-proprietors and
editors disclose the source of any information they
printed on that subject. Designed to stifle criticism
until after the municipal elections, it was invoked only
once, and then unsuccessfully.
In the coming session it seems that the same
pattern is to be followed. Several suburban muni-
cipalities have virtually been given notice that they are
to be absorbed into “Labor’s” Sydney City Council,
although no hint of this was in Cahill’s frank and
truthful policy-speech, and the liquor laws are to be
amended in ways which completely ignore the recom-
mendations of the Maxwell Report.
It seems incredible that in an allegedly enlightened
community an elected Government can so con-
sistently ignore the people to whom it is supposed to
be responsible, and whom it must face at another elec-
tion within 18 months. The Cahills have come to
believe that they can get away with anything, and
recent history encourages them in the belief. Especially
is this so when the main Opposition party, the one
which would have to supply the leadership in an
alternative Government, is split by a faction-squabble
which has left it without a leader, and the near-certainty
that whoever is eventually selected will have to contend
with a disgruntled batch of dissidents in his own
party-room.
Choice For Chino
“In the ACT”: In his speech on foreign affairs,
Interior Minister “Billy” Kent Hughes was heard in
almost painful silence by the House of Representatives.
The Opposition knew not only that his arguments
were good sense but that his own experiences in the
Far East, including the p.-0.-w. years, gave him the
right to speak. In addition to stressing the pitiful plight
of the Vietnamese refugees (a matter in which Australia
could give a lead of great value) he dealt with the
present and prospective situation of China, the “great
unknown factor,” He mentioned his affection for
the Chinese people (“they stuck to me and mine through
thick and thin barely 10 years ago, and I regret
exceedingly that they have fallen on such evil days”),
and then proceeded to suggest how easy it would be to
usher in a peaceful era if only China would be true to
her history and traditions instead of remaining a
second-rate nation, a satellite of the Kremlin.
This is an approach which may not merely cause
some reflection in Peking, but could also provoke some
pondering in Washington, D.C. Kent Hughes recalled
that China used to be a great nation, but thought the
Chinese. Communists must have forgotten the books
of Confucius, the first man to say, “Do unto others
as you would they should do unto you.” Now, he said,
China would never be a great nation while she
remained a satellite of a European Power, with Russia
controlling the great Manchurian railways, Darien,
Outer Mongolia and Chinese Turkestan. Her loss of
face by non-recognition in U.N. was nothing compared
to her loss of face by loss of control of her own ports,
lifelines and territories to a European Power. She
couldn’t expect recognition while she gave moral and
material support to the Communists in Malaya and
waged war by subversive tactics in South-East Asia.
Warning that never since the days of pagan
Rome has Christianity been so endangered, Kent
Hughes stressed the need for higher defence spending
for our new Seato commitments. Inaction will not
stop bushfires, he said, and “a Welfare State is of
little benefit if it is a prelude to a state of farewell.”
What the Government should now stress
is the extreme consideration being paid to
the fears and misgivings of those Asian nations
which are playing ostrich. Neither Menzies nor Casey
underrated the difficulties of these new and
economically and defensively weak areas, or failed to
acknowledge their desire to remain free of all
domination, whether frojn East or West. This approach
may convince them of the dangerous error of their
present thinking far more quickly than the querulous
criticism elsewhere, just as the choice for China
suggested by Kent Hughes could be presented effec-
tively in Peking. The “Labor” Opposition cannot or
will not see these wide implications, but the Aus-
tralian public, which does a lot of quiet thinking on
such matters, will probably do so.


“RIDE HIM, COWBOY!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Evatt and Agents
The Canberra outburst of Dr. Evatt on
the Petrov Commission is symptomatic
of the condition of A.L.P. nerves. The
party, after an election campaign in which
it got completely drunk —some of its
Socialist followers would use the word
“disgustingly”—on Liberal policy, is
suffering from a bad hangover.
If he was trying to make political capi-
tal out of the appointment of the com-
mission the attempt did little credit to
his ability as a tactician or the length of
his memory, and his party will not thank
him. He could scarcely blame either Mr.
Menzies for being angry or Government
members for glorying in his exhibition
and baiting him with the suggestion that
he was “afraid” and that he was
“hysterical.”
In a statement issued outside the
House, Dr. Evatt asked why Mr. Menzies
in April did not inform the country that
Petrov was being paid £5OOO, why he
held the information back until after the
general elections, and whether an inter-
mediary was employed during 1953 to
bargain with Petrov, and, if so, how much
he was paid.
Those questions were of a kind which
a leader in Dr. Evatt’s position might
have prudently avoided like the plague.
Early in the year 1942 the Government
of which he was Attorney-General em-
ployed an intermediary in Western Aus-
tralia. It paid this man to bargain—using
a false German name —with four silly
people, and, of course, disguising the
fact that he belonged to more than one
Communist fellow-traveller body. He
bargained with them in the guise of a
Nazi along lines which were due
to produce a treasonable con-
spiracy to welcome the Japanese
to Australia if they landed, to
commit wholesale murder and to hand
over the Commonwealth to an enemy.
And when he had got something down
on paper the results of his operations
were linked to a dozen innocent people
in New South Wales, some associated
with the Australia First Movement and
some not, and they were ruthlessly flung
into internment-camps and some of them
ruined.
There is ground for hoping that if
Mr. Menzies’s Security Department did
employ an intermediary to induce Petrov
to unmask the Russian spy-system in Aus-
tralia, nobody will say of him, as Mr.
Rosevear said of the intermediary whom
Dr. Evatt’s Government employed to
trap the Australia First people (“Han-
sard,” Vol. 172, p. 60): “Under cross-
examination that witness admitted that
he was guilty of practically every crime
in the calendar. He was a ‘great’ charac-
ter. He ought to have been in jail him-
self.” Or that anybody will say of him
what Mr. Calwell, now Deputy-Leader of
the party, said of Dr. Evatt’s and Mr.
Forde’s 1942 hero:
It would appear that the charges..,,
were based on certain information which
was disclosed by an agent-provocateur
in Western Australia... .He was a
rather disreputable individual socially,
and it was upon bis statements that the
persons in Western Australia were
arrested.... There was no association
according to the recent Press statement
of the Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt,
between the people in Western Australia
and the people [interned] in N. 8. Wales.
One would have imagined that after
the Australia First business Dr. Evatt
would run a mile rather than breathe a
word about the use of agents to unearth
treasonable conspiracies in the interests
of foreign Powers.
And the same with his mention of
the Zinoviev-letter affair, with which he
thinks a parallel case will be established
when “the tangled skein in the Petrov
matter is finally unravelled.”
There would be no need to forge a
letter to connect Australian “Labor”
leaders with Zinoviev, Losovsky or other
Russian notables. Zinoviev, at the height
of his power, was a fellow-member of
the Comintern Executive with J. S,
Garden, for instance, when Garden,
under the chairmanship of Mr. Holloway,
one of Dr. Evatt’s co-Ministers in the
Chifley Ministry, succeeded in getting on
to the drafting committee of the Aus-
tralian Trade Union Congress and secur-
ing the adoption by “Labor” of the
socialisation objective straight out of the
Comintern programme.
Mr. Garden claimed to be the political
godfather and economic coach of both
Dr. Evatt and Mr. E. J. Ward. And,
amid applause from the Communist party
-r-“ Jock will do a good job”—Dr. Evatt
as Security Minister and Mr. Ward as
Minister for Labor agreed that Mr.
Garden was an ideal man to act as liaison-
officer between the Curtin Government
and the unions during World War 11, Dr.
Evatt’s Security Department, despite Mr.
Garden’s past and associations, apparently
failed to find out (until much later) that
he was still a Communist at that time.
But, in any case, what Government
would need to employ Petrovs to start
Zinoviev cases when operating against a
leader whose Government, during the
war, gave a Communist a job in a secret
research department of the C.5.1.R.0.
after he had been pointed out by Crown
counsel in a dock as “the fifth-column”
and sentenced to jail for acting as a spy
for Hitler’s ally in Moscow just after the
fall of Dunkirk?
After Nato—Seato
Mr. Casey has announced that the South-
East Asian defence talks will begin in
Baguio in the Philippines on September
6. The countries represented will be the
United States, the United Kingdom,
France, Australia, New Zealand, Paki-
stan, the Philippines and Siam. The
starry-eyed Indians will not be present,
and neither , will the Japanese, who have
announced that they will, generally
speaking, follow the British line of
foreign policy—-a blow to United States
prestige in Asia, but perhaps one that
will have satisfactory consequences.
The importance of the meeting is ad-
vertised by the fact that Mr. Menzies may
lead the Australian delegation. His intru-
sion into the field of foreign affairs illus-
trates how delicate the international
situation is. It is no easy matter to estab-
lish at present “a collective security
arrangement in accordance with the pur-
poses and principles of the United'Nations
Charter to strengthen the fabric of peace
in the general area of South-East Asia
and the South-West Pacific.” It is par-
ticularly difficult to strengthen something
that isn’t there; and peace certainly
doesn’t exist in South-East Asia, save in
the form of armed neutrality, with the
aggressors edging up to within reach of
the U.N.O. nations’ chins,
Australia is believed by the daily
Press to favor the equivalent of a Nato
pact which would result in each nation
concerned contributing to a force to be
stationed in South-East Asia,' but it
would take some time to reach this point.
It is exceedingly difficult to see any effec-
tive scheme of this sort working without
India and Japan, the two great reservoirs
to which a defensive alliance would have
to look for resources and fighting men
in a really major clash.
Moreover, it is difficult to believe that
any such scheme could be carried out
effectively without provoking the Com-
munist bloc to action if the Communists
really have in mind the plans contained
in Mao’s programme of 1953.
This plan is already moving forward
to its goal if current news from China
has any basis. On the day on which
Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevan and their
fellow-lightheads of the British. Labor
Party were winging to Peking full of rich
food and champagne contributed by the
Socialists of the Kremlin, it was reported
that a large force was being moved to
the Formosa Strait with a view presently
or ultimately to the invasion of that
island.
Coming directly after a call by Chou
En-lai for the liberation of Formosa,
which he insists is essential to Chinese
mainland security, the movement is cer-
tainly ominous. The island is vital to
Chinese defence in war, perhaps to the
continued existence of Communism in
China. And if the Communists intend
to carry out the envelopment of South-
East Asia and expect to court major
reprisals, Formosa is as essential to them
as it would be to an invader. So also
is Hong Kong.
Strategic problems are moving into the
approaches of war. The stage has been
reached when the primary security that
matters most to us, except as an inci-
dental, is the security of Australia and
New Zealand. The very first part of any
major effort should be at home; any
effort in Asia an extension of it, though
integral with it.
Not-so-local Government
A couple of mouths ago N.S.W. Premier
Cahill, at the opening a new garbage-
treatment plant at Canterbury, said “In
my opinion a democracy should be based
on the principle that government at a
State or national level should exist only
to perform those tasks which are beyond
the capacity of the local body.” That is a
sentiment with which no one interested in
local-government should find himself at
variance, but unfortunately the man who
enunciated it has not stuck very closely
to it in practice. He has, in fact, been
intimately associated, first as Minister for
Local Government and then as Premier,
with every “Labor” move to make local-
government in New South Wales less and
less local and to bring it more and more
under the thumb of the “Labor” Govern-
ment and its party-bosses.
The results of its policy in Sydney are
well known; less-widely-realised is its
effect in some of the country districts
touched by its hand. One such example
has just come from Moss Vale, where,
on a smaller scale, the policy which
brought all Sydney’s electricity undertak-
ings under one control has been applied.
Last year the various electricity authori-
ties which supplied Moss Vale, Mittagong,
Bowral and surrounding areas were
absorbed into the Berrima County Coun-
cil. There were protests from the towns
which still wanted to run their own
affairs, but the Cahills never take any
notice of protests which conflict with their
own views. The objectors were told that
it was all for their own good; economy
of supply would result from the change,
and the day was past when a small elec-
trical undertaking could give a cheap
and efficient service. Many were critical
of the proposal, particularly in Moss Vale,
where residents would have been quite
happy to keep on under the old system of
local supply.
Those people, and others who didn’t
trouble to protest at the time, are even
more critical now they have received their
first bills from the Berrima County Coun-
cil, some almost double the previous
account, all of them higher—on the aver-
age about 40 per cent, above the old
figure. A protest-meeting has asked the
Minister for Local Government to look
into things, but past experience doesn’t
encourage the victims to expect much
redress.
One speaker at the meeting suggested
that even if the protest didn’t help Moss
Vale it might serve to put other towns-
marked down for similar treatment on
their guard. That is so. Several other such
amalgamations are already planned;
those affected by them would do well to
ask for a thorough explanation of the
Berrima scheme before thejr have its
counterpart thrust upon them. ‘
The Cahill Liquor Laws
Past history of the liquor-laws in New
South Wales suggests there is little chance
of hotel-closing hours being extended
beyond six-o’clock as a result of a referen-
dum. This is not to say that the majority
of people in the State are firmly con-
vinced that six-o’clock is the ideal hour
for the call of “Time, gentlemen, please.”
Far from it! It is probable that scores
of thousands who have in the past voted
for early-closing do not care two hoots
one way or the other; these are the non-
drinkers or light drinkers who do not
frequent hotels, but have no prejudice
against liquor. They vote for the retention
of six-o’clock closing partly through a
conservative objection to change and partly
—although they don’t realise it —because
those campaigning for early-closing are
better organised than their opponents,
chief among them being two groups
which are normally opposed to each other,
but become temporary allies whenever
six-o’clock closing is attacked. These are
the Prohibitionists, who falsely call them-
selves temperance-advocates, and the
brewers and publicans. Six-o’clock is
sacred to the blue-ribboners only because
they realise they cannot secure an even
earlier hour; it suits the beer-sellers
because the rush-hour hog-swill enables
them to sell the maximum quantity of
liquor in the minimum time and a later
closing-hour would increase their costs
without necessarily increasing their sales.
Another point on which these strangely-
assorted allies see eye-to-eye is in regard
to licensed clubs. Both are opposed to an
increase in the number of club-licences;
both would like to see clubs close earlier.
In his Liquor Report Mr. Justice Max-
well said of six-o’clock closing that there
were evils associated with it “which ought
not to be tolerated in a civilised commun-
ity” and that reliable evidence in favor
of a later closing-hour was “supported by
observation in other States, in the United
Kingdom and on the Continent.” As to
clubs being required to close at the same
hour as hotels, he left no doubt that the
present distinction should not be dis-
turbed.
It is therefore rather astounding to find
the Cahill Government, after sitting on
the Maxwell Report for months, making
two decisions which virtually ignore it.
The referendum represents the irreduc-
ible minimum of action which a Govern-
ment armed with the Maxwell Report
could possibly take. As a practical
attempt to end the' six-o’clock swill it is,
for reasons before stated, futile. The
second decision —to bring closing hours
for clubs into line with those for pubs—
is in direct opposition to the recommenda-
tions of the report, though quite in accord
with the wishes of the temperance move-
ment and the brewer-publicans. One thing
is certain ; no one will suspect the Cahills
of being unduly influenced by the tem-
perance people.
France and Socialism
The plans of M. Mendes-France provide
further evidence of the rate at which
Socialism seems to be disappearing from
the Western world.
Rated as a “Radical Socialist,” he has
affronted all of the extreme French Left
and some of the Right by deciding to
break the deadlock which has resulted
from France’s refusal to sign the treaty
to create the European Defence Army.
The details of his plan have not yet been
issued, but they seem to include a limita-
tion of the term of the Army’s existence
to 20 years, instead of the original 50,
the limitation of the forces in the
integrated army to “covering” forces and
the maintenance of France’s right to
leave the council if Germany should be-
come unified.
Whatever the full plan, it was enough
to drive three Gaullist Ministers out of
the Cabinet. But he will scarcely miss
them in the light of the authority he
obtained —by 361 votes to 90—to over-
haul the French national economy and
give the country a new deal which it
badly needs.
His views of what a new deal means
are refreshing from a Radical, His first
item is the abolition of the class-war
and the “reintegration of the working-
class into the French nation.” Though
he believes that the standards of living
are altogether too low he says that “brutal
and general” pay-rises would only lead to
inflation and do no good, although they
might produce a few days of ephemeral
popularity for the Government. He
believes in wage-adjustment in industries
which can afford rises, but he believes
that it should be achieved by collective
bargaining. He proposes transfer of
labor where needed to balance local un-
employment and he believes in modern-
ised industry, but under free enterprise,
with Government assistance only where
necessary, in cases in which unprofitable
businesses can be made profitable with
expansion of employment.
It seems that Mendes-France, if he
still calls himself a Socialist or a Radical,
is a very different brand from the kind
packaged in Australia.
The Hooded Terror
“D.S.” (London); It is indeed no small
consolation to endure this experience—
a first glimpse of television, except for
some moments of a Spanish bullfight in
Rome—in the company of Mr. Arthur
Horner, once,the illustrator of Andy and
Ma in The Bulletin and now famous as
Horner’s Confer in the London “News-
Chronicle” —an Arthur Horner bearded
like Sir Francis Drake, with his charming
wife, formerly Victoria Cowdroy, who
illustrated the poems of Ronald McCuaig.
But to television.
Mr. Horner flicks a switch and the
future approaches as a voice, as a waggle
of light across the tiny screen, as the
enormous pale serious face of a Welsh
storyteller. He leans forward in his arm-
chair, frowning intently, to buttonhole his
invisible audience ; he winks, he grimaces,
he flourishes his eyebrows, he thrusts his
huge face closer and closer, he exudes
an overwhelming and unendurable mas-
culinity. It is like a great shaggy dog
making faces at itself in a mirror. All
over England, maybe, housemaids are
swooning at it.
The story is about some wild Welsh
village loon who belonged to an ambu-
lance unit and, when he broke his leg,
was so interested in his injuries that he
forgot to sympathise with his wife; then
he weeps at his own callousness; and the
storyteller, his extraordinary perform-
ance over, disappears in a final contortion
like a drowning crocodile.
Flick,, come on extracts from a play
now being acted in the West End. Flick,
swerve, flick, swerve, giddily flashes the
screen as it turns from character to char-
acter. The sense of unreality is total,
this tiny grey dance of talking-dolls. In
the West End there is life ; here, dwarf
shadows.
Now a comedian makes awful puns
and worse faces. Now a very flat girl,
the folds of her dress and hair merging
into the curtain behind her, sings of love.
And now at last comes the Hooded
Terror. It is a kind of game they play
on the 8.8.C.’s television, a development
from quizzes and jackpots.
Here is a very pale compere; here is
a shy crime-reporter from the “Daily
(Continued on next page)


Express”; here is Australia’s Joy
Nichols, svelte, radiant and surprisingly
blonde; here is the Hooded Terror, who
is a man got-up in a sheet; and they all
sit down together and, with the audience,
try to spot the clues in a little burgjary-
scene which is acted before them. The
vital clue is neither the cigarette-butt
nor the slip about the missing money, but
the way the papers were scattered about
the floor outlining the girl’s body . . .
Thank you, Mr. Horner. By all means
some more claret. And heaven help
Australia; it’s coming.
Its power in advertising will be
stupendous; in fact, stupefying. The
pretty little toy Spanish bull prancing
about the arena was enough to show how
excellent it will be for sport: the entire
Australian nation, when the races are
on, will sit glued to its television-set all
the long sunny afternoon. And the Tests
and the tennis —yes. But for the rest, a
merciful lag of two years preserves us
from knowledge of the hooded terror
that awaits us.
POLITICAL POINTS
As this went to the printer Dr. Evatt
was appearing for his private secretary,'
Alan Dalziel, and his assistant private
secretary, Albert Grundeman, at the
Petrov Commission. Members of the
Federal “Labor” party were kept in
doubt to the last minute whether their
leader would take this course. On Mon-
day morning he dispatched a telegram to
each of them. The sitting began at
10 a.m.
• •
Commenting that there had been great
changes in Moscow since his previous visit
in 1937, Clement Attlee said he hardly
recognised anything except the Kremlin.
Charles Lamb had a line for it: “All,
all are gone, the old familiar faces.”
• •
Top of the Budget hit-parade: “Bob’s
your uncle and Artie’s your aunt.”
• •
The desperate efforts of N. S. Wales
Liberals to find a successor to Treatt
would be amusing if it were not for their
double revelation of the lack of unity and
leadership in the party. With Morton and
Askin dead-heating 11-all in four succes-
sive ballots, it seems most unlikely that
either could command lasting support
from the party if he should get the odd
vote next time.
After the two had tied in the second
ballot Askin suggested that their names
should be put in a hat to decide the issue,
Morton wisely refused. A man would
have to be very good indeed to stand
up to the gibe that he won his party-
leadership in a lottery.
• •
Treatt has resisted attempts to persuade
him to reconsider his resignation; he
seems to have had it. At the weekend the
two claimants were still waiting to be
crowned, and the less enthusiastic of their
supporters were casting around for a
compromise candidate. Former deputy-
leader Howarth, despite his poor show-
ing in the four ballots, still seemed the
most likely alternative —unless Murray
Robson could be persuaded to take on
the task of reuniting the warring sects.
The party meeting was scheduled for
yesterday.
• •
Calwell has been displaying the skin
of a Northern Territory crocodile he
claims to have shot. There’s a strong
suspicion that he talked it to death.
• •
Sydney breweries are very jealous of
their product and they don’t like their
patrons’ enjoyment of it to be distracted
by other things. At one time Sydney
hotels supplied counter-lunches at mid-
day and savories and snacks in the late
afternoon. Some made a small charge ;
others turned it on free. The U.L.V.A.
and the breweries apparently thought it
was spoiling the taste of .the beer, so an
edict was issued and the pleasant custom
ceased. A post-war attempt to revive it
was quickly crushed.
Latest example of the working of the
principle that a hotel-bar is meant for
drinking in and nothing else was given
last week when the breweries called up
on the mat licensees who had been
screening free films in their bars. Appar-
ently the U.L.V.A. had previously tried
to stop the practice, but without success.
So it sooled the breweries on to the
“offenders.”
• •
There was a faintly familiar ring about
Evatt’s elegant rejoinder to the remark
that his public policy in foreign affairs
had been underlined by a pro-Com-
munist thread and bias. His words
were, “You are lying. You dirty little
liar.” It seemed almost like an echo of
Eddie Ward at the Jock Garden inquiry,
when his lines ran something like this:
“It’s a he That’s a lie It’s a dirty
lie. You’re a liar.”
• •
Criticised for departing from “Labor”
policy by submitting an N. S. Wales
Honors List, Cahill wrote a long letter
of explanation to the A.W.U. in which
he said that the original decision banning
titles was “considered to apply to those
Honors which carry with them a title
such as Lord or Sir.” His list had been
“restricted to recommendations for the
award of the C.M.G, C.8.E., 0.8. E. and
M.8.E.” It is to be hoped the explana-
tion satisfied the A.W.U., but it seems
rather a specious one. The orders desig-
nated by the letters are orders of knight-
hood, although only the highest classes
of the order entitle the recipients to put
a handle in front of their names.
Thus the Order of the British Empire
is divided into five classes. Cahill’s
conscience allows him to recommend
nominees for third-, fourth- and fifth-
class honors, but not for first- or second-
class, It seems to be a case of class-
distinction in reverse.
• •
The Victorian decision that a man
accused of making sovereigns could not
be found guilty of counterfeiting because
the sovereign is no longer a coin of the
realm bears out the old saying that if
you are going to break the law you might
as well do, it on the grand scale. If a
man makes his own trey-bits, that’s
counterfeiting; if he makes gold quids,
that’s not.
Sequel: The accused was discharged
KING BUNG
without a stain on his character. But
he didn’t get his sovereigns back!
• •
Brief synopsis of the new Canberra
“Labor” play, “Our Happy Family”:
ACT ONE. Scene: Caucus Room. Players:
Ward, Haylen and others. Haylen tells
Ward to stop beating his chest as if he
is running the party. Ward hits Haylen
(not on chest). Haylen hits in the general
direction of Ward. Others intervene and
stop fight.
ACT TWO. Scene: House of Representa-
tives. Players: Keon and Pollard. Keon
speaking on Indo-Cbina. Pollard inter-
jects.
Pollard: Why didn’t you join the French
Foreign Legion and have a go yourself?
Keon: I suggest you could have done
that yourself.
Subsequent acts to be set in the court-
room at the Petrov Commission and the
Caucus-room.
• • •
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, there is
a movement advocating saner shopping-
hours and a cessation of the policy which
makes it a heinous offence for a suburban
shopkeeper to be caught selling a packet
of tea or a tin of jam after hours. The
Shop Assistants’ Union is all for preserv-
ing the status quo; a deputation from
the union told the Minister for Labor
Galbally that the movement is inspired
by big American interests with the object
of breaking small shopkeepers so that
ē
clubs is a hangover from the days when
a club was considered to be the exclusive
haunt of retired colonels, wealthy squat-
ters and bloated capitalists. Today, with
the extension of the club-system among
ex-service organisations and sporting
bodies, club-membership is an amenity
enjoyed by something like 200,000 mem-
bers in New South Wales. If nothing
else makes the Cahills change their mind
over bringing clubs under the hotel clos-
ing-hours’ law, reflection on the voting
strength of this membership should do
the trick.
• •
“Two-jobs” Hills easily won the Phillip
by-election in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
but neither he nor the “Labor” party can
feel very happy over the voting figures.
He polled 11,446 votes against the Inde-
pendent candidate Campbell’s 4158.
Campbell’s score, with absentee votes
still to come, was only three fewer than
the Liberal candidate scored at the
general election last year ; Hills was 3944
down on the previous “Labor” vote.
• •
Lang’s “Century,” speaking of Eddie
Ward: “He is the kind of right-hand
assistant that Evatt has been badly in
need of for a long time.” But it’s Eddie’s
Left hand that needs watching.
When Senator Spooner announced
that home-building in Australia was
levelling out at the rate of 75,000 dwell-
ings annually, he added that this meant
the backlog was being overtaken at the
rate of 15,000 a year. Needs to meet
normal growth, plus immigration, were
for about 60,000 a year. But what is
the backlog ?
• •
“In the ACT”: Minstrel boys nowadays
have a harder time than girding on their
fathers’ swords and marching off. The
Army is seeking 190 boys between 15
and 17, of whom 30 will be trained as
band-boys. They will have to attend
school for two years for an intensive
musical and general education, before
being posted for six years to the A.R.A.
with a military band. The 160 boys to
be enlisted as apprentices will do three
years at school learning trades, and will
then have a year’s practical experience
with a technical unit before serving as
tradesmen for five years.
• •
Holland and Indonesia last week
signed an agreement abolishing the link
between them under the Dutch Crown.
West New Guinea was not discussed at
the conference; Holland refuses to con-
sider Indonesia’s claims to that territory.
• •
“Melbn”: Some funny things appear
to be happening in West Preston, a Mel-
bourne suburb which until 1946 was
mainly open paddocks and is now a sea
of Housing Commission villas. In that
year the commission acquired 25 acres
from a knitting-mill firm for which the
firm had paid £5575. Later the land was
released to the firm, which sold 17£ acres
to a paper-manufacturer for £16,000 and
51 acres to another concern for £SOOO.
That is all very well, but the small land-
owner doesn’t get let off so easily. The
wife of a disabled soldier was forced to
sell a block for which she had paid £145
at the commission’s own valuation, which
was £7O 10s. The commission subse-
quently resold it as a pub-site for £4OO.
It isn’t recorded that the soldier’s wife
got half the unearned increment or even
sixpence of it.
• •
Hollway is appealing to the Victorian
Libs to “bury the hatchet and get to-
gether • again.” He argues that with the
“Labor” party at present enjoying a fine
old internal row, the time is opportune
for the Libs to heal their own squabbles.
It is certainly true that as long as the
Opposition forces are split into three war-
ring groups they have no hope of defeat-
ing “Labor” ; unified they would stand
a very good chance, as the Federal-elec-
tion figures showed.
• •
“Philo”; The new postage-stamp to be
issued in November to mark Australian
interest in the Antarctic will have several
interesting effects. It will include a map
of the Antarctic, with Australian terri-
tory clearly m'arked. Philatelists will be
interested, of course, but so will Govern-
ments in various parts of the world, not-
ably in North and South America. The
United States, which is still refusing to
recognise any territorial dairies in the
Antarctic, will be confronted with a
world-wide declaration in effect,, via
stamps on every letter, of Australia’s
claims, and of the steps taken to consoli-
date them by the establishment of stations
on Macquarie and Heard Islands and at
Mawson on the Antarctic continent itself.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T’VE often wondered about those two
buttons with which one is supposed to
call the lift in most city buildings, one
marked “Up,” the other “Down.” It
doesn’t matter —the lift obeys, which-
ever one you push. But if, say, you’re
“ Ernie , don't let me go home without buying
trouser-buttons ."
on one of the intermediate floors, do you
press the “Up” button when you want
to go up, or when you want to bring the
lift up to take you down; and do you
press the “Down” button when you want
to go down, or when you want to bring
the lift down to take you up? The only
time I ever had the temerity to ask a lift-
driver about it he was either very surly
or thought I was insane: “It’s simple if
you use your commonsense,” was all he
would say. Possibly, of course, he didn’t
know himself. Possibly nobody knows.
—“Youanmi.”
*** 4+ ♦>
C. Nowell (City Librarian, Manches-
ter, Eng.): In your issue of Wednesday,
May 26, 1954, you printed a cover adver-
tisement from Seppelts which featured
what purported to be a view of the Usher
Hall, Edinburgh. This so in-
trigued one of our English
readers, now serving with the
British Commonwealth Forces
in Korea, that he sent me a copy
for my pleasure. This illustra-
tion is, of course, the Central
Library, Manchester, opened in
1934 by King George V.
4« 4+ 4*
“Myuna”: It was probably
a proud father who inserted a
birth-notice in the “Canberra
Times” reading: “On August 3,
1954, to Jean and Harry—a foot-
baller. Both well.” But he
omitted to say whether the new
arrival has joined a team or is
starting one, and also which code
the youngster will play. The
battle of the codes is on more
violently than ever in Canberra,
and the infiltration of Aussie
Rules into the primary schools
this season has been a major victory, or
defeat —depending on which code the
observer favors. Perhaps by the time
Harry’s boy dons his first boots with
stops there’ll be only one code played in
the A.C.T. —the best.
4 4* 4*
“Mullum”: Bought a novelty pencil-
case for my youngster. Manipulation of
the lid displayed the various multiplica-
tion tables; right up to 20 x 20. Per-
haps the European manufacturers didn’t
know there was a country where no one
bothers to learn anything past 12 x 12.
Just tried myself out with 13 x 13, and
did not get within 20 of the correct
answer.
*** 4* *l*
“Pawang”; Amusing that, in the very
month Premier Cain started to emulate
Dr. Bowdler with his legislation to con-
trol literary smut, the 100th anniversary
of the birth of Dr. B. passed unnoticed.
The eminent Thomas began his self-
imposed task of deodorising writers by
censoring the greatest of them, Shak-
speare. The doctor’s expurgated version
of the Bard was an enormous success ;
thus emboldened, he started on The De-
cline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
What he did with this work I don’t
know, never having read his; but I don’t
expect he was any more
successful with Gibbon
than he was with Shak-
speare. On one page he
would put his blue-
pencil through some
mild reference to the
biological function and
on the next leave un-
touched a passage which,
if he had understood it,
would have made him
reach for the smelling-
salts. Nobody has dis-
covered what good
Bowdler did, or what
harm obscenity has ever
done. Every civilisation
and culture has had it,
even that of the Trobri-
anders, who are said to
have a morality much
freer than ours, and yet
regard a reference to
uncles as extremely
naughty.
❖ 4+ ❖
“Sutherland”: Have
wondered what prompts
the philatelist to collect
small squares, triangles
and oblongs of assorted
colored paper. The
thrill of the chase is hardly in-
volved. Classifying and mounting
is a tedious process. There is
small chance of discovering a really valu-
able specimen. Till a friend gave a clue.
Asked the reason for the bleary eye, he
replied that he had been up till 4.15 a.m.
following his hobby with a fellow-bower-
bird —and a bottle of rum.
4* 4*
H. Davies (Japan): Must set the
record right on those 60,000-tonners
being built in Kure (B. 28/4/’54).
“X.M.N.” has it that the Japs are build-
"He has such a lovely bedside-manner—he always raises his hat."
ing these monsters. Actually, they’re
being constructed by an American com-
pany, in the former naval dockyard
leased from the Japanese Government.
Only one Jap there rates higher than a
foreman —ail other supervisors are
Americans from the U.S. west coast,
English from the Tyne, and Scots —well,
naturally, from the Clyde. In a little
over two years the company has put into
the water four 36,000-ton oil-tankers and
one tanker of 46,000 deadweight tons;
also one 60,000-ton ore-carrier, com-
pleted in June, and a second, launched
recently; a third of the same size and
design is due for launching in November.
The Japs themselves could never have
built such huge ships in that time. I
work in the shipyard,
4« 4*
“Nakhoda”: The 40th anniversary
on August 4 of the outbreak of the
First World War returned a memory. I
was in hospital in England, and looking
out of my window saw a squadron of at
least four box-kite aeroplanes lumber
over at 50 m.p.h. and disappear droning
in the distance towards Hendon. “What
good are those things?” said the man
in the next bed, a planter from Malaya.
“You might as well spit into the wind.”
♦♦♦ +t+ 4+
“Viper”: Nudism is unique in being
the only vice towards which I’ve never
harbored even a fleeting urge. Freudians
will doubtless find some abstruse con-
nection between this and the fact that it
was also the only vice (if such it be)
against which my parents omitted to warn
me. Still, while no expert on nudism, I
feel that an undressed human is, generally
speaking, a less inflammatory sight than
a dressed one; and that the U.S. parson
who recently gatecrashed a nudist camp
misplaced his zeal. “Punch’s” comment
on file increased patronage of U.K. nudist
camps might be commended to any such:
“Patrons have at last found a holiday
on which they are not always putting
their hands in their pockets.”
4* 4 + ■4+
“Spokeshave”: Touching the popu-
larity of No. 13. ticket-selling window
at Tatt’s Melbourne office. Another case
of superstition in reverse was observable
the other morning. A painter had placed
a tall ladder against the S.E.C. building
next-door; punters emerging in a steady
stream from Mr. Cain’s hospital-benefits
organisation deliberately walked under-
neath it, something never previously to be
seen in Melbourne,
♦♦♦ 4* ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: How often we are told
that some nine-days wonder has “put
Australia on the map.” Apparently this
country refuses to stay there Fortu-
nately the Post Office is better informed •
it must be thanks to that alone that i
have lately received several letters from a
London literary agency, all addressed to
“Tasmania. Africa”!
4+ 4* 4*
“Mullum”: Tell “Mugga Way” (B.
4/8/’54) that it’s not so hard to under-
stand blokes who have dangerous war-
souvenirs. Officially, all souvenirs were
banned, and anyone who handed his in
to be “deloused” was firmly told not to
call back for it. So we brought our
souvenirs home “alive,” put them on
the mantelshelf, and simply forgot they
were dangerous. Even now, if we handed
them in, I doubt if they would be returned
after being rendered harmless.
“Muskeen”: Mentality of persons who
preserve dangerous war-souvenirs may
be influenced by contempt born of
familiarity. At Caraoy Camp, in France,
I came across a group of Tommies
gathered around a mess-tin perched on
the tips of three up-ended dud shells,
in the midst of which a fire was burning.
At the same camp a British officer en-
gaged in the sport of ratting fired a
revolver-shot down an old Fritz dug-
out, with the result that he and the camp
were blown sky-high. Most of the bat-
talion were patronising their divisional
show, “The Verey Lights,” and the death-
roll was light.
4> ♦♦♦ *
“Villefair”: St. Michael’s Anglican
Church in Darlinghurst, Sydney —due for
its centenary on September 29 —is pro-
bably unique among Australian churches
in that it is smaller today than it was a
hundred years ago, its decreased size not
caused fay deterioration, but by progress.
A splendid stone building,' the original
structure was some 20ft. longer, but
when FUnders-street was widened the
church had to be shortened to the new
alignment. And the alteration was car-
ried out so skilfully that there is no
structural indication that the church was
not originally designed in its present
form ; you have to read about that on a
tablet in the wall of the rebuilt chancel.
❖ 4* 4«
“Birubi”: The Royal visit is still
working miracles in Australia. A
neighbor’s small child whose passion
is collecting pictures of the Royal family
also has another mania—biting nails.
Till the distracted mother turned on her
and screamed, “Don’t do that! The
Queen doesn’t do it!” Now the nipper
has nails like Fu Manchu.
4« »!♦
“Hist”: Our six-year-old, whose Sun-
day-school instruction has recently
touched on resurrection, has posed a
question; when the Last Trump sounds,
will all the missing bits of Joe be pro-
perly reassembled? Joe is the odd-
jobber about the place; one of his legs
went west in France in War I; one eye
was knocked out by a fractious beast
while branding cattle in Queensland.
Finally (we hope), in the small hours of
a Sunday morning not long ago, after a
weekend, he tangled with a car, and Joe
forfeited his left forearm.
THE FIRM PARENT
“ ‘Television in Australia should not be
fettered because some parents are unable or
unwilling to regulate their children’s viewing-
time,’ said the president of the Australian Associ-
ation of Advertising Agencies. ‘Telling children
when to go to bed is the parents’ job, not the
duty of the Government.’ ”
You must take your kids in hand with
television,
You must tell them when they have
to go to bed,
You don’t need a House-debate or a
division
Or the Senate ratifying what you’ve
said;
Your children’s faith in you can be
inspiring;
Your trust in them, in turn, can mean
a lot:
Just explain to them the reason for
retiring,
And they will go to bed or they will
not.
You can tell them that the programme
you’ll be seeing
Is not the kind at which a child should
gaze:
Jazz, with clarinets and trumpets dis-
agreeing.
Or Miss Cleavage in “The Parting of
the Ways';
A thriller much too criminal and thrilling,
A vaudeville whose jokes are far too
blue —
And then you’ll find your children will be
willing
To suffer through it ,.. to the end . . .
with you!
If methods like this fail, there is another,
A final court of juvenile appeal;
You can always put the matter to their
mother,
Who understands how children think
and feel:
“It’s time you’d done your homework
and were sleeping!
You won’t wake in the morning fresh
and bright!
From now on, ho more television-peeping.
Except, perhaps, just one last time —
tonight!”
m
Yes, it’s simple, moulding children’s
trusting natures;
It’s a shame to take the money, I agree;
It’s a pity that such gay and careless
creatures
Must be yoked to carts of virtue like,
say, me;
And maybe it’s because of this I’d rather
That television still should be unseen
Until my little boys are each a father —
Yes, let them screen their, offspring
from the screen!
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


A MIABLE alcoholic garrulity on the
bus that leaves for the suburbs just
after the pubs close: “Never sing when
I’m full; poetry’s my line. Love it.
Gen’rally carry book in me pocket—Ella
Wheeler Wilcox. Great stuff! Kipling
wrote coupla good-’uns, too —‘East is
east and west is west...,”’ His head
sagged in a moment’s contemplation.
Then: “Y’ know, when I get ’ome a bit
full an’ the dog—lovely dog—meets me
at the gate I stan’ there an’ I say to ’im
‘Kemal is out with ’is twenty men to
raise the borderside, an’ ’e ’as lifted the
Colonel’s mare, which was the Colonel’s
pride.’ An’ then me old pooch chucks
’is ’ead back an’ ’owls. Y’ know —oooo-
hooob-ooo! Then me missus sticks ’er
’ead out the window an’ shouts ‘Shut up,
can’t y’! ’” He shook his head ; then,
sadly: “Me missus ’ates poetry.”—
“Oliver Filter.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“A.F.”: The dome of Melbourne’s
Public Library—one of the city’s largest
roofs and said to be the rhightiest dome
in the Southern Hemisphere—has leaked
“ It's an eyesore."
for 40 years. It has thus earned honor-
able place, with., the Degraves-street sub-
way (almost done at last) and the under-
ground railway, as one of this town’s
marathon put-offs. But damage to books
and occasional icy drips down readers’
necks in wet weather are now reckoned
beyond a joke. So a copper covering for
the dome, estimated cost £BOOO, is being
—discussed.
A A
“Wandana”: Police-trainees in South
Australia are to have another subject in
the curriculum—lectures by police-
surgeons on midwifery. This has been
prompted by recent happenings—-a
police-inspector acting as midwife to a
young woman who gave birth to a boy
in a public telephone-booth, and a North
Adelaide constable called on to assist a
baby girl into the world. Taxi-drivers
also; the commissioner recommends
that these often called-upon gentry
should receive a similar course of
elementary instruction in that particular
art.
♦> * *
“Chevroford”: A speed-limit of 50
miles an hour on all Victorian out-
side built-up areas has come into force,
along with the 30 m.p.h. limit where
there are street-lamps. Motorists with
cars geared up to 90 or 120 m.p.h. insist
that 80 or even 90 m.p.h. is safe in open
country. But what does that term mean?
More than 50 per cent, of Victorian
smashes last year occurred in what
practically everyone would regard as
“open country.”
* *:• *
“Tidbinbilla”: The Commonwealth
Observatory near Canberra gives a
pretty good example of successful co-
operation among migrants. In the three
dozen workers are natives of Australia,
New Zealand, India, Ceylon, South
Africa, Canada, England, Scotland,
France, Germany, Yugoslavia, Czecho-
slovakia, Poland and Russia. The fact
that the locals are heavily outnumbered
could be due to neglect of the study of
astronomy in Australian Universities.
“Strict Veg.”: The other day the Better
Food people went around Melbourne
buying up loaves at random to have them
tested anonymously by a cross-section of
the population, with, at the same time, a
testing of a similar collection of staffs-
of-life from Sydney, to compare them.
On the votes, Melbourne’s bread was
tastier than Sydney’s, Not very con-
clusive. Italians and Frenchmen would
say that what is called bread in either
city isn’t bread at all, and not because
there is anything wrong with the flour.
It is the way it’s baked, and it can’t be
baked in any different way in Australia
because it has to be baked too quickly.
An Italian baker who tried to give Mel-
bourne better bread and kept his ovens
going in prohibited hours was heavily
fined for contravening the regulations,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: An irreplaceable collec-
tion of records connected with geothermal
and volcanic research has gone up in
smoke jn a fire at the Rotorua (N.Z.)
offices of the Geological Survey. Eight
years of research into thermal activity,
with photos, hundreds of prints, nega-
lives and films of Ngauruhoe eruptions,
plus the library of the Government Vul-
canologist, representing 20 years’ corn-
pilation, are now ashes. Only a few
years back—in 1952—a fire at Welling-
ton destroyed thousands of departmental
records and files of early legislation. In
the outburst of indignation over failure to
see that such historical and scientific
records are safely housed, Dr. J. C.
Beaglehole, noted historian, lately com-
mented: “Perhaps some day when all
the written and graphic records of our
country’s past have perished by fire, rats
and floods some Prime Minister or other
statesman will be found sentimental
enough to heave a sigh and say ‘What a
pity,’ ”
A A
“E.8.F.”: The Baltic Medal (B.
4/8/’54) was a campaign-medal issued
to all seamen and marines who served in
the Baltic between 1854 and 1855. It
£VD
“Please go away—you're not my type.”
was intended for the Navy only, but two
officers and 90 men of the Sappers and
Miners aboard the flagship received it
also. When Charles Davis Lucas per-
formed the act which won him the first
V.C., his rank was mate. Seven years
afterwards a namesake, Color-Sergeant J.
Lucas, of the 40th Foot, won the Cross
in New Zealand. For a number of years
after its institution the V.C. was worn
with a blue ribbon by naval recipients.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Myuna”: Fifty of the finest crafts-
men and artists of the fine-china section
of the British pottery industry contributed
more than 8000 hours of work to pro-
duce the vase presented to the Queen by
British pottery - manufacturers. Each
country in the Commonwealth is to
receive a copy of the vase, the object of
which is to commemorate the Coronation
and symbolise the unity of the British
Commonwealth. One of the most com-
plicated pieces of bone-china ever made,
it is mounted on a base of Australian
black-bean wood. The vase itself is
25%'m. high, and Him, wide. It has 10
sides richly and colorfully decorated,
almost 50 colors having been used. The
Australian copy should become a show-
piece in Canberra.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bosun’s Mate”: “Macnell” in holts
with Maroubra pirates (B. 4/8/’54)
threw me back to my first and last experi-
ence of film-making. Captain of B-gun
in an Australian destroyer at the time;
Noel Coward bn the bridge, directing
shipboard sequences of “In Which We
Serve.” The script called for action in
the summery Mediterranean ; actual locale
was Plymouth in the depth of winter.
We performed for Mr. Coward round
the half-frozen gun, dressed in khaki
shirts and shorts. Never —admiral’s in-
spections thrown in—have I seen gun-
drill carried out with such exemplary
speed and vigor.
♦♦♦ *** *X*
“Sister Ellell”: We’d been in camp for
some time, and our dentist had a feeling
in his teeth, he said, that my departure
north was imminent. So, “as an Old*
Digger,” he thought he should proffer
some good advice. It was: (a) Don’t
play crown-and-anchor until you are
thoroughly familiar with the game;
{b) If you’re bent on losing anything,
see that it’s your reputation and not your
pay-book, as there’s a helluva lot of
red-tape about retrieving a pay-book.
. ❖ ❖ »>
“Cauboy”: Preparations for the Mel-
bourne Festival, which is to be an annual
event and will combine art, music, ballet,
games, fun and whatnot, are well under
way, and it’s proposed to launch it under
the name of “Moombah” —title of the
dance-drama which some aborigines per-
formed at the Princess Theatre during
the Australian Centenary celebrations.
Those uncultivated Binghis from the
Never Never did a wonderful job and
were extraordinarily simple, sincere and
natural about it. To give the synthetic,
self-conscious, sophisticated bunkum that
will go on at the Melbourne Festiva ,
with its street-processions and its forced
jollity and rowdyism, not to mehtion its
official speeches, such a dignified title
would be a misnomer and would cause
a false impression. Visitors from over-
seas—and many are hoped for—would
think Melbourne was holding a cor-
ĕ
“BUMP ME INTO PARLIAMENT”
The politician cries for votes.
As politicians will.
He tells the crowd he is the cove
To cure their every ill.
“Just put me in,” he shouts to them,
“And slums will pass away.
The boss be lifted from your back.
And up will go your pay !
“That far Utopia, long discerned.
Will then be very near,
And Brotherhood, so much discussed,
Arrive within the year.”
They put him in. He knew they would.
He went to Parliament.
Two-thousand pounds a year he drew
They never drew a cent.
The voters asked him, later on,
When would Utopia come,
Or if he knew the likely date
Of the millennium.
He said “It’s here! The day has come,
And plain for all to see;
The things I promised to you, boys.
Have all come true—for me.
“The slums have vanished from my mind,
The boss Ido not fear ;
And Brotherhood develops on
Two-thousand quid a year!”
N.S.W.
MUG.
HIRSUTE MUTINY
p
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
John Smith was a blacksmith when, at
19, through adventure-yarns spun by
his policeman-brother, he left his forge
and joined the Force. The other day, 44
years in, he retired. Commissioner of
Police in Queensland, He’d climbed
through all the hard-won promotions—
in one period of eight months he held
three successively higher ranks—and in
his sergeant-days his squad had a No. 1
pest-rating among Brisbane’s sharpies and
sly-groggers. The spare-time effort he put
into the Police Welfare Club (one-time
chairman) and the Police Citizens’ Wel-
fare Association (vice-president) now
goes into his bowls and garden. P.
(Paddy) Glynn (Irish, by the way) takes
over the commissionership. Early in the
Royal Irish constabulary, in Australia 33
years, the new man has made fraud-
investigation his speciality.
• •
When The Bulletin called on Brian
Bannatyne Lewis (he fills the Chair of
Architecture at Melbourne University;
first and only occupant since the “Age”
established it in 1947) the artist offered
him a cigarette. The prof: came back
with offer of his snuffbox. But he’s
modern enough architecturally as
evidenced by his design of the University
House at Canberra’s National University,
which has brought him this year’s Sir
John Sulman Medal for Architecture. A
diverse career took him from Wesley
College, Melbourne, to mining, Singa-
pore ; to England, nurse to a mental
case; on to Liverpool studying archi-
BLUEPRINTS
tecture, winning of the Royal Institute
of British Architects’ Victory Scholar-
ship, and winning (for. wife) of the
second place. Followed War 11,
signing-up with the A.I.F. in England and
Sixth Divvy Engineering in the Middle
East, when the British Government asked
the A.I.F. to hand him over. Back in
England, Lewis was appointed chief
architect of the Great Western, then one
of Britain’s largest railways, and helped
repair damage done per Goering to other
railway installations. From the Great
Western he landed the Melbourne post.
Just on 48, bom in Tasmania.
• •
“Fitz”: Peter Bladen (whose The Old Ladies
at Newington, which won the long-poem section
of the Commonwealth Jubilee competition, 1951,
has just been published by Meanjin, Melbourne)
had his first poem published in The Bulletin
when he was twenty. A native of Subiaco
(W.A.), graduate of the University of Westralia,
Bladen studied music for 10 years before decid-
ing on writing. In War II he served with both
the Army and the Navy, after which he loafed
around Lord Howe Island for a couple of
years, then, returning to Australia, worked in
factories and on vineyards, was a cabinet-
maker, sunk postholes and kept books at wheat-
silos. Last year for six months he had a lazy
walkabout through the Westralian and South
Australian countryside, collecting material for a
travel-book, which is seeking a publisher. A
verse-play is also “on the rounds” and a novel
almost finished. The Old Ladies at Newington
is his second book of verse; the first, Selected
Poems, was published in Perth in 1945.
A shy, elusive fellow, he is one of the
hardest poets in Australia to track to his lair.
A little while ago The Bulletin wanted to pay
him a cheque for his poem “Coronation Day at
Melrose” and, not knowing his- address, had
scoute all over Australia hunting for him. He
was finally located in a newspaper establishment
next-door to this paper’s Melbourne office,
working as a night proof-reader, which allows
him some of the day free for writing. The only
photograph I’ve ever seen of him shows him
with a beard; I’ve been assured, however, that
the foliage was only temporary.
Captain Otto Becher, R.A.N., is a
gunnery-jack by training. He won D.S.C.
at Namsos, in Norway ; added a Bar to
it at Sabang, in Sumatra; and put up
D.S.O. in Korea, almost due east, six
thousand miles and 10 years in time from
Namsos. He’ll shortly step from Navy
Office, berth of Deputy Chief of Naval
Staff, on to the bridge of aircraft-carrier
Vengeance, in command.
• •
“Rothjay”: Forsaking the suburban
comforts of his Gardiner (Melbourne)
parish, the Rev, J. Eric Owen is off to
mission fields in Vila and the New
Hebrides. Fearlessly outspoken, with the
distinction of having been the youngest
Moderator of the Scotchbyterian Church
in Victoria, he is chairman of Ormond
College, councillor of Scotch (old
school), and in 1945. took to teaching at
Ormond for a year, in between master-
appointments. He’s had four of his con-
gregation id Gardiner ordained ministers,
five others are studying to that end,
and six young women are training as
deaconesses and kindergarten teachers.
• •
Westralian Agricultural Department’s
A. S. Wild, appointed Assistant-
Superintendent of Wheat Farming for the
State, takes wide experience to the job,
including some years on experimental
work at the Wongan Hills Research
Station; research in most of the wheat-
belt areas and southern W.A. sheep-
districts; stationing at Katanning for 13
years and a survey of rural manpower
for the Government. Since 1949 he has
been projeCts-officer of the War Service
Land Settlement Scheme.
• •
“Ek Dum’s” note:
The substantial form of Colonel Alfred Spain
will be missed in many avenues of public work
■ —he passed on at 86 almost on the same spot
where he was born at Neutral Bay, Sydney.
There was scarcely any type of honorary service
to the community in which he had not been
involved.
An architect who left his mark on his native
city, he found time to serve in the military
forces for more than 30 years, commanding
field companies before World War I, in whia
he had charge of Engineer reinforcement-camps
which he organised, and also serving abroad
with the A.I.F. in sea-transport. He was a past-
president of the Royal Empire Society and the
Town Planning Association, of Taronga Park
Zoo (in the organisation of which he was a
tower of strength), and it was largely due to his
energy and interest that the N. S. Wales United
Services Institution, of which he was deputy
president, was able to weather World War II
without a break in its activities.
One of the great yachtsmen of the early part
of the century, and a fisherman who knew
every corner of the grounds along the middle
coast of N.S.W., he was perennial chairman
of the annpal Anniversary Day Regatta in
Sydney Harbor. He held the Royal Shipwreck
Society’s silver medal for gallantry in saving
life at sea.
His services were all the more remarkable
because his business interests to the last were
wide and versatile. A good citizen of unbounded
energy and zest for living and hard work.
• •
“Uramao”: Looked in on his native
strand at Greymouth (N.Z.), Russell
Peek, engineer-in-charge of servicing
B. airliners. Responsible for the
sweet running of tho’se aircraft which fly
the Queen and Sir Winston Churchill, he
serviced the Canopus for its Royal-tour
run from London to the West Indies.
Closer home, he was with Captain
Burgess in the initial flight for the Tas-
man service, later engineered in Balti-
more, Los Angeles and Montreal, and
now is based with 8.0.A.C. at Bristol
(Eng.).
• «
A thesis described by Sydney Univer-
sity Senate as “an original contribution
of distinguished merit” brings Alan Oliver
Watson his Doctorate of Dental Science.
For long interested in spastic children,
Dr, Watson found that certain types of
the afflicted youngsters have a particular
groove in the enamel of their first teeth.
He worked for six years at the Mosman
(Sydney) Spastic Centre to complete his
findings.
• •
Major-General Ivan Dougherty gets
the Militia’s top-ranking appointment—
C.M.F. member of the Military Board.
Victor Windeyer handed over command
of the 2nd Division, C.M.F., to him a
couple of years back; Dougherty hands
over to Brigadier D. Macarthur-Onslow,
The new member is a Bachelor of
Arts and of Economics as well as a master
of war—degree of C.8.E., D.S.O. and
Bar, achieved in Bardia, Tobruk, Greece,
Crete, Sanananda-road, Shaggy Ridge,
Morotai and Balikpapan.
There’s not much Arthur Burton doesn’t
know about the export trade of the shop-
keeping nation—Australia’s share of it,
anyway. Twenty-five years back, already
with 16 years in the British Board of
Trade behind him, he became assistant
to the U.K. Trade Commissioner in
Melbourne. Through all the late-war
years he was T.C. in Sydney, shifted up
to Calcutta, similar responsibility, and
in 1950 took over product-promoting for
his country in Victoria, South Australia
and Tasmania. In his time here the value
of British imports has risen from £4OO
million-to £2688 million —Burton reckons
that a country sound enough to absorb
that increase is good enough for him. So,
on retirement shortly, he’ll settle at
Bowral (N.S.W.).
• •
To be a top instructor in the Army’s
jungle-training set-up at Canungra (Q.),
Lieut.-Colonel George Warfe will be re-
membered by jungle-fighting Diggers as
a leader as tough as they come. His
reputation, earned in New Guinea, is
backed with D.S.O, and M.C. He goes
north from command of a National
Training battalion at Puckapunyal (Vic.).
• •
filling the vice-presidential possie in
the N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society
from which Sam Hordern lately moved
up, Alexander McCorquodale has had
15 years’ experience as a councillor, with
wide agricultural know-how. Managing-
partner of the flour-milling firm bearing
his name, chairman of directors of
Cumberland Newspapers, connected with
the Wagga Research Institute and the
wheat-grain section of the Chamber of
Commerce, he’s been soldier, too —with
the First A.l.F.’s Engineers, and for
almost the whole of the later stoush was
assistant-engineer in the Ministry of
Munitions, his responsibility production
or gun ammunition. Son of a Glas-
wegian, himself bom in Auckland (N.Z.),
he likes growing oranges.
• •
When Lud Mayor Solly reaches his
allotted term as First Citizen of Mel-
bourne, the civic bunny-skins will pro-
bably descend upon the shoulders of
Councillor Frank Selleck. A War I major
who won M.C. and was “mentioned,”
he was a member of the Board of Busi-
ness Administration in the later show.
A public accountant and a picture-
theatre director, he has big interests in
the city, so was able to do a good job
as chairman of the fact-finding committee
investigating the trading activities of the
council. Fifty-eight, he is State treasurer
of the R.S.L.
• •
Charted here by rank-mate Woolcott,
Captain Jack Bolton Newman, R.A.N.,
recently appointed superintendent of the
Long Range Weapons Establishment,
Woomera. Used to long ranges—he’s a
signals expert—Newman was in the first
term of snotties to be accepted for the
R.A.N. College (1913), with him Collins,
Faracomb and Showers, now flag-officers
all. Just old enough for War I, he did
his sea-time with the Grand Fleet, and
before shifting to the shore-wireless ser-
vice just before War II was in cruiser
Canberra as squadron signal-officer.
While in that address, Barrier Reef at the
BLAST-OFFS
time, he established his legend—the only
officer eyer to catch a turtle from the
quarter-deck. Though not at sea in the
late strife, Bolton had better than a
bridge-view of his Service’s doings—
between 1940-46, Director of Naval Com-
munications. A first-class dit-spinner,
especially of stories with a French flavor
—he learnt the language living in Nor-
mandy—he’s 55, son of a Geelong (Vic.)
medico.
Having a vacationing look at Adelaide
by way of Alice Springs and Darwin’
Sydney barrister Rex Chambers, Qc’
was bagged by artist Coventry in the S A
city. Chambers enlisted in the First
A.I.F. at 17, sapper with the 9th Field
Coy. Engineers; enlisted in the Second
A.I.F. at 40, private, ending full colonel
head-serang of the A.l.F.’s legal corps in
the Middle East. He made his start in
learning law at Sydney University; was
BRIEFS
called to the N.S.W. Bar in 1925, built
up a healthy practice in Common Law,
and took silk a year ago.
• •
Colonel S. T. G. Coleman, to take over
responsibility for training close on 35,000
school-cadets in Australia, graduated from
Duntroon in 1937, joined the 2/Ist
Pioneer Battalion, A.1.F., in 1940, and
was a staff officer of the 18th Brigade in
the Middle East. On return he became
G.S.O. on H.Q. of the Seventh Division.
He has also been an instructor at Dun-
troon and at the Staff College at Queens-
cliff (Vic.), and in 1952 was on the Aus-
tralian joint-services staff in Washington.
He’ll replace Colonel E. E. Grant, who
has been director of cadets for four years
and will ground-arms in October.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Fremantle, at 83, Captain John James
Henry Airey, retired master mariner, one-time
Deputy Director of Navigation and Lighthouses,
and for more than half a century one of the
best-known men in Westralian shipping.
Earlier harbormaster at Albany, and District
Lighthouse Officer for W.A. and the Territory,
while in charge of navigation he made many
hydrographic surveys for the Admiralty. On
shore, one of the founders of the St. John
Ambulance in Fremantle, and commander of
the order since 1946.
In Melbourne, P. H. Keys, D. 5.0., M.C.
and Bar, private in the Queen’s Westminster
Rifles, commission in the Royal Engineers, his
first M.C. on Gallipoli. Architect by profession,
he was that to the Singapore post-office after
War I, landed in Melbourne from China shortly
after the start of War 11, to get back into
uniform, this time A.I.F. major in New Guinea;
to return to architecture again, looking after
the Australian Paper Manufacturers’ housing-
project.
At Nelson (N.Z.), at 86, H. G. F. Barham,
ending an engineering life, spent in many parts.
Big water-schemes in England, at Liverpool and
Birmingham, engaged him before he shifted to
Brisbane, engineer to tile Board of Waterworks.
Much of the million-pound Stradbroke Island
scheme to supply the city with water was
carried out under him. Another important
work was his installation of Seoul’s (Korea)
first waterworks, of which he became manager
and engineer.
In Sydney, at 83, John Walker Stevenson,
senior partner (in active practice to the end)
of Perkins, Stevenson and Linton, one of the
oldest of N.S.W. solicitor firms, Articled in
1891, he had been president of the Law Institute
of N.S.W., and devoted all his life to his
profession and its maintenance on a high plane
of ethical conduct.
In Melbourne, Richard James Moorehead,
father of journalist-author Alan Moorehead.
Widely experienced in newspaper work in the
southern States, R.J. had been Parliamentary
and chief law-courts reporter in Westraha,
and editor of “Table Talk.”
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 82, Richard Jeffers,
last survivor of the warship Calliope. He was
a signal-boy, 17, when Captain Kane steamed
the Calliope through the hurricane, to live,
while three U.S. and three German warships
were battered to pieces, with the loss of 150
lives. A native of Cork, Jeffers arrived in
Auckland on the warship’s maiden voyage m
1887, and in War I served in the battleship
Majestic, which was torpedoed in 1915, m the
Mediterranean. After retiring from the Royal
Navy in 1919, chief yeoman of signals, he had
lived in Auckland. *
In Melbourne, at 81, Edward E. Pescott, one-
time principal of the School of Horticulture,
Burnley (Vic.), later Government Pomologist m
the Department of Agriculture. For years presi-
dent of the Victorian Horticulture Society and
the Field Naturalist Society, he authored several
books, including a short Life Story of Joseph
Furphy.


Yoo ueave si <z 7 i th<mk. you m P eerrefi^
<3JV/g MS THE NAME A/HO APPRESS OF VOOtR.
N£*T- OF -K»m %
A NECESSARY PRECAUTION


ABORIGINALITIES
TN a previous census, I recollect Red
-*■ Charlie, who had his shanty on a
river-bend, answering the query “Bathing
Facilities?” with “Emu River.” In the
recent count he was pinned down to the
question whether a bathroom was in-
cluded in his menage, it’s still the Emu
River. —“Metax.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Ybsul”; There was bigfella trouble
among the plantation kanakas, and Bill
was asked to adjudicate. Ngagoi’s wife
was accused of misconduct with Koio.
“What have you got to say, Koio?” Bill
asked, by way of opening the proceedings.
“I have not done this thing,” Koio
affirmed stoutly. “I have known this
woman since we were children. We are
one-talks of the same village. I have
never harmed her or approached her in
this way, even before Ngagoi bought her.
I am held in the highest regard among all
my people. I do my share of work and I
pay all my debts. I am not a big-head,
I am a modest man and a good man. For
you, Masta Bill, I work as hard and
honestly as any man on your place. I
have never talked in a bad way to the
wife of any man. I know about God ; I
am a man bilong God. True!” Bill
turned to Ngagoi’s wife. “Is this true?”
he asked her. “Yes, four times!” said
the lady. Koio was still a couple of leaps
ahead of Ngagoi when the hunt passed
out of sight.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
v
“C.W. J.”: Came across two horses, in
a paddock standing almost nose to nose
and both holding the same stick—about
three or four feet long—in their mouths ;
they were moving their heads up and
down rhythmically in a sort of dance-
routine. It was assuredly no tug-of-war,
and neither horse showed any sign of
hostile intent. Now, could I have
stumbled upon something significantly
new in equine courtship? ~
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bass”: Looks as if landing-barges
(L;S.T.’s) will become permanent on the
north Westralian coast. They were used
to land oil-drilling equipment at Exmouth
Gulf, and now one has loaded cattle for
the Philippines direct from the shore at
the Ninety-mile Beach. The shipment is
from Anna Plains station, where they’ve
built a stock-race which is under water
at high tide. The landing-barge ties up
to the race, and when the tide’s out the
cattle are driven on board; when the
tide returns the barge refloats, and it’s
off to the Philippines or elsewhere. The
barge can carry 800 head, together with
fodder for them until they’re sold; and
they should reach their overseas market
in less time than it would normally take
to drove them to an Australian port.
* * * *
“Mingari”: So “Jeff Jay” asserts that
sheep feed up-wind because their wool is
thus blown back into its natural position
and keeps out the cold (B. 4/8/’54).
Now, I agree that a sheep is about the
silliest animal alive, but surely one
straight off-shears isn’t so dumb as not
to notice his complete shortage of outer-
wear, which negatives the wind’s effect
on his feeding direction —but he’ll still
graze up-wind. And if, when fully
dressed, he feeds to windward to keep
warm, why doesn’t he turn round and
feed the other way in summer, so that
any wandering zephyr can blow straight
up his jumper?
♦ * ♦ «
“8.A.K.”: In a pretty big paddock
(as coastal dairy-paddocks go), over
which I thought I’d shot about every
square foot, I came on a fold between
two knolls that was new to me, and in its
“He’s the dermatitis case.”
lantana I found no fewer than five bovine
skeletons, in an area no more than 50yds.
square. The beasts had not died in a
bog; there was no waterhole and the
ground could never become marshy;
nor was there evidence of poisonous
weeds. I believe that the five died of
natural causes and at different times. It
is feasible that sick cows would wander
by instinct to the most sheltered glen in
the paddock—one protected from the
bitter westerlies, yet open to the morning
sun. And those that did not recover
would, of course, leave their bones there.
Maybe that “Elephant, Valley” legend
once beloved by fiction-writers sprang
from something of the sort.
#**<•>
“Quo Vadis”; No, “Carmonger” (B.
21/7/’54), I did not say I hadn’t seen a
“welding-torch” used on a radiator, I
said, inter alia, “ welding job dn their
busted radiator-tan —quite a different
story. It’s common to use a torch or
blowlamp with a reduced flame for un-
sealing radiator-tanks from their cores.
“Don’t forget, Joe, your missus wants you to bring home cats'-meat,
chops and some butter."
But ordinary solder melts at a bit over
300 degrees Fahr., and that temperature
is all the flame is required to create,
Even then it is no game for a mug, as
“C.” will admit. That weld job on a sheet-
brass tank (actually it is “brazing”)
requires somewhere around red heat
(1000 deg.). Unless you had the radiator-
core immersed in water, or similarly pro-
tected, your solder would run haywire.
No real tradesman would be so foolish
as to do a job in this fashion. He would
simply solder the tank at the lower heat
required. As for my “bit of glue,” ftiuch
depends on its user. Two years ago I
repaired a cracked cylinder-head with this
glue and waterproof-canvas. Mechanics
had “given the head away,” and my job
saved a grateful owner over 30 quid, and
is still OK. today. This type of adhesive
is now used extensively in industry for
a multitude of purposes. Finally, I know
about bush flux-substitutes. I live in
Queensland, where hot gidyea sap is as
satisfactory as spinifex resin.
“Fair Mac”: A couple of years ago
my mate, offered a Queensland-heeler
cheap, insisted on taking him away for a
private trial, claiming that many a dog
would work well for his boss but be an
utter failure with anybody else. Bill’s
comment when he returned the heeler was
that he wasn’t worth feeding. Recently,
when a poundkeeper impounded a few
of Bill’s stock, an acquaintance obliged
by lending him a dog which did the help-
ful job so well that Bill took along a
fistful of notes to talk business with the
pooch’s boss. It was a hard bout of bar-
gaining; eventually a deal was made.
Then he was told—yes, the same dog.'
Now the previous owner chiacks Bill for
not knowing a good dog when he saw
one; Bill grinningly blames the dog for
not knowing a good boss when he saw
one.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: An Albany (W.A.)
man sent a mask-owl {Tyto novce-hol-
landice) to Perth Museum and a daily
described it as “rare” because “it is rarely
seen.” On that classification there must
be a lot of rare birds in W.A. The tawny
frogmouth is probably the best-known
of our night-birds, yet how often is it
seen? Not often enough to dispel the
popular belief that it’s an owl—it’s really
a nightjar—and that it utters the well-
known “mopoke” call. The bird which
really makes that call—the boobook-owl
—is hardly ever seen, but it can be heard
even near Perth on any fine night. Much
the same applies to the mask-owl. Of
course it's rarely seen, and being a silent
flyer it’s seldom even heard, but I sus-
pect it’s far more numerous than is com-
monly supposed. It’s a big bird, up to
18in. long, fairly solidly built, light-
colored, and its almost white face is sur-
rounded with a ring of dark feathers
which form the mask. Part of its sup-
posed rarity may be due to its being so
often mistaken for the barn-owl, a
smaller bird with a less pronounced mask.
The difference isn’t noticeable in the
dark, or by flashlight.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Pisces”: How does one account for
the uniform size of the first shoal of
tiddler-fish which appear in an earth-
tank? I’ve seen a newly excavated tank
on its first filling carry teeming fry
within a few months. Looking individu-
ally like inch-long solidified bars of light
with two eyes at one end, they kept in a
compact mass until some disturbance
temporarily split their ranks. I won’t
have it that spawn is carried on the
feathers of water-birds, as some claim
possible. Ever see one preening its
feathers? Even so small a thing as a fish-
egg would strike trouble. But the fish-
spawn could be carried in mud attached
to the claws of a wading-bird.
♦ ♦ * *
“Koreelah”: One of North Queens-
land’s hazards to cattle and horses in
drought-time is the whitewood-tree, a
straggling, stunted affair that’s good for
neither shade nor firewood. Its leaves
contain some potent and habit-forming
drug, and, as they’re often the only green
things in miles of barren Flinders River
downs, it sometimes happens that a beast
or prad will grab a mouthful. One feed
seems enough to form an almost incur-
able habit. The affected animal quickly
gets a wild look in the eye, becomes un-
steady in its gait, likely to fall, and un-
predictable in its actions; driven with
others in a mob, it will break away, first
in one direction, then in another, some-
times staggering and falling. What’s
worse, it loses all appetite for such grass
as the country affords, and unless shifted
to a place with ample greenfeed and no
whitewood, it will die. Have never
heard the name of the drug, or poison, or
whatever it is the leaves contain. Any
of the Council know?
HARVEST
Outside the suburban winery the long line of
laden trucks
seems like a column of toys set out in the early
sunshine.
Over among the vines a picker whistles as he
adjusts his secateurs.
Dust of the Murraylands clings to the high-
piled bunches,
each dust-filmed grape tight as a milk-filled
breast.
From among the rows of vines comes the
rattle of buckets.
In the second truck the driver sleeps with his
head on the wheel,
the all-night drive protecting his slumber against
discomfort.
The old horse drags the first load out from
among the vines.
The drivers stare as Rube goes clip-clop slowly
past their trucks,
his whip waved in derision—first preference to
the home crop.
From among the vines comes the high sound
of women’s voices.
Two drivers sit on a truck-step, passing a
tobacco-pouch;
a third squats on his heels in the dust, squinting
up at them.
“All half asleep today?” the foreman demands
of the pickers.
The driver with the reddish stubble that catches
the sun
curses the memory, of punt-delays, the expecta-
tion of more.
Among the vines a tall picker straightens his
aching muscles.
Clip, clop, Rube comes back with his empty
trolley,
the smell and the noise of the winery seeming
to follow him.
Under the pickers’ feet is the squelch of
crushed fallen bunches.
“What the hell’s wrong with them?” a driver
shouts from down the line.
“I want to get back two-hundred miles and
load again before darkness.”
A laugh comes from the vines, a woman picker
refusing a suggestion.
A man with purpled arms comes out of the
winery gateway,
shouts, and lifts a grape-stained finger at the
leading driver.
Among the vines men and women pickers
stand up to stqre.
The first truck grates into gear, swings, an 1
disappears
into the noise and rattle and steam and wine-
smells of the building.
One of the pickers stamps about, swinging a
bee-stung hand.
Someone shakes the second driver free of his
covers of sleep;
motors start up, each truck moves a few yards,
then stops once more.
The pickers bend again, easing soaking shirts
from sweaty skins.
After the move most of the drivers climb down
from their cabins,
sprawl under the trees with their legs straight
out in front of them.
“Smoko! Smoko!” the foreman shouts, and
drags out his morning lunch.
The leading driver is asleep again, flopped over
his steering-wheel.
The shadows of the trucks creep closer in
towards the tyres.
Over among the vines the pickers are easing
their aching backs;
into the still air grey-blue smoke drifts up in
wispy mouthfuls;
each man in turn squints along the line of an
upturned bottle;
then “Righto!” the foreman shouts, “Grab
your buckets, you blokes.”
Grumbling, the pickers stumble back between
the rows of vines.
s.a.
IAN MUDIE.


Canyon detect
fc.V.syi*
m
mi
i v\
m
g(**ftrey* f )
i
BELtS
V oich W K
»0» SCOTCH WHISH'I*
DISTILLED ANO BLEND' 0
■ in‘Scotland
O| STILLERS pe "™ sc°J l
established ‘‘U*
v.„. ..oouct of
a c classic’?
'% ? ■ C
One of life’s little joys lies In
making your own discoveries.
Nosing out a good thing.
Picking a ‘surprise’ winner.
Quietly finding the best. Many
a man has been delighted to
come across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky which has that true
classic flavour that only the
rare, the very best, whiskies
can achieve. All the natural
advantages of soft Highland
air, peat and water, together
with the best of barleys are
made the most of by slow
maturing and careful blending.
Good whisky takes time.
You have only to open a bottle
Of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky to
appreciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS rerth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
THE GOOD
COMPANIONS
m
ti
SM
S' >
lions
BALLONS
6m\
0 an
m
m;
COR
A COMPLETE
RANGE OF
AUTOMOTIVE OILS
AND GREASES
. . equally suitable
for new
and run-in engines.
5 \£Wh
moiv ll.
"""/y/y//////////,/////,:*
Mot oß OIL
/][ ROUS-ROyce
i
I
r AN
INDEPENDENT
k SERVICE STATION >
For top-up or oil change |p
choose ENERGOL, the ‘Good Companion’ of C.O.R
the MOTOR SPIRIT that’s better than ever at
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd)
LTD
THE construction-camp had settled in
and the gang had gone to the local
hop. By the ticket-table stood a gangling
youth with open mouth, vacant of eye
and expression. Ever ready to start
something, Ginger nudged him experi-
mentally as he moved in. The yob spoke
in a flat, unbelievable monotone: “Do-
that-agin-and-l’ll-knock-y’r-block-off.” As
Ginger said later—much later —he simply
had to do it again just to find out. As
we knelt by the wreck that was Ginger
the yob spoke again: “Y’re-lucky-y’
struck-one-of-us-boys-if-you’d-picked-the-’
old-man-he’d-a-half-killed-y’.”—“B.J.L.”
* * * •
“Narumee”: Placid as may be the
bovine temperament sometimes I
doubt whether old Buttercup could have
been persuaded, as “Cliff Towers” claims
(B. 28/7/’54), to “stroll” about cliff-
tops carrying on her horns a
Cornish wrecker’s-lantern —a weighty
affair of cast-iron, built to with-
stand the gales that screamed around
those inhospitable coasts. The lanterns
were, in fact, placed on the cliffs, in
order to give the impression of a harbor,
while fishing-villages, built round safe
anchorages, kept their lights doused, so
that the ships came in on the treacherous,
jagged rocks, to be pillaged. The cow
story may have arisen from the fact
that the moorland ponies, on whose backs
the loot was borne away, carried lan-
terns round their necks. Any farmer who
owned cows kept them (and still does)
as far as possible from the cliffs, which
wouldn’t be easy pasture-ground even for
alpine goats.
» * * •
“Vega”: Dogs and cattle may make
concerted attacks on those of their kind
that are injured (B. 28/7/’54), but the
same charge cannot be levelled against
the horse—an injured one is shunned by
its fellows like the plague. Anyway, this
law of the survivaKof the fittest is cruel
only by human standards; it’s really
Nature’s way of eliminating the unfit
and preserving the vigor and strength of
the species,
* ♦ * *
“Yacko”; Though Flinders anticipated
the French navigator Baudin by a few
weeks in sighting Kangaroo Island, it
is possible that Flinders, too, was beaten
by a couple of years. Sheltering by a
fire he made in the centre of a hollowed
gum in the vicinity of Cygnet Park, Dr.
W. Leigh, in 1837, noted an inscription
cut deep into the bark of the tree; “This
is the place for fat meat, 1800.”
With magnificent eucalypts border-
ing a stream of fresh water, and
kangaroos, emus, wallabies, wom-
bats, bandicoots, echidnas and
possums in plenty, it probably was.
The river, now known as Cygnet,
was called by the sealers Three
Wells, later to be labelled Morgan
when the captain of the first vessel
bringing the colonists of 1836
anchored at its mouth.
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”; Can anyone
tell me how a dog can tell a myxo-
matosis-stricken rabbit when still
chains off? Ours will by-pass any
affected rabbit, yet quickly give
chase to his unaffected brother.
Should the cats bring home any
affected ones the dogs will rush in,
take them off the cat and then drag
the rodents into the dam.
• * * *
“H.G.L.”: The “plain turkey” is
a noble bird, worthy of the protec-
tion Alec Chisholm seeks for it (B.
21/7/’54), and, as A.C. indicated, it’s
not worth the shooting as a table-bird.
The poor old turkey has a hard enough
battle to hold its place without man shoot-
ing it out. It nests on the ground, lays
two eggs, sometimes one, and, if ever
the fox gets established on the Barkly
Tableland, it’ll be good-bye to the turk.
Its disappearance, however, would scarcely
upset the balance of nature, for as a
destroyer of ’hoppers it isn’t in the same
class as the straw-necked ibis. Smaller
birds, such as the dotterels, also deal out
slaughter to baby ’hoppers. The villain
of the piece is the kite-hawk, which
destroys the destroyers—the baby dot-
terels and others of the plover family. #
♦ * * *
“Vega”: Whilst it is true that the spin-
ning of the earth is responsible for alter-
nating day and night, “Bass’s” notion
that it causes the seasons (B. 21/7/’54)
is incorrect. Seasonal changes are caused
by the inclination of the earth’s axis at
an angle of deg. to the plane of the
ecliptic. If the earth’s axis was upright
in relation to the ecliptic—which is a
plane passing through the centres of the
sun and the earth day and ni §ht would
be equal all over the earth all the year
round, with no seasonal changes. We
can thank the earth s lazy lean that we
don’t have to either shiver or sweat all
the year.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Sand is the best
foundation for a building. It doesn’t shift
or crack like clay, and a post sunk in
it will grip tighter the wetter it gets,
“With infra-red headlights they pop up right in front of you .”
But even with sand you have to know
your job. Clearing a block for a builder,
I was told that if any stumps were grubbed
in the line of the foundations the holes
were not to be filled-in —he wanted to
put the foundations to the bottom of the
holes to get a sound footing. If the holes
were filled-in, and the stone put on top
of the filling, that section would settle,
however tightly it was rammed. He said
it’d still be settling 10 years later, causing
cracks in the walls.
* * ♦ *
“Quo Vadis”: The first artesian bore
to be sunk in Queensland was at Thurul-
goona station, near Cunnamulla, in 1886.
Water was struck at 1290 ft., with 93,120
gals, daily at 108 degrees Fahr. This was
the beginning of the tapping of the great
Queensland artesian-basin system. The
deepest well in the Australian system, and
one of the deepest in the world, is at
Bimerah, near Longreach (Q.). Depth,
5045 ft. /
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’ll question a
recent claim that timber grown in a
very moist climate will weigh much more
per cubic foot than timber of the same
species grown in arid conditions;
also that weight and hardness
aren’t necessarily complementary. What
softwood is heavier than a hardwood?
A timber that’s hard to cut is so because
its grain is close. Dry pine, for instance,
will absorb more moisture than dry
jarrah because it has more air spaces to
fill; and a tree grown in dry conditions
grows more slowly and consequently be-
comes more concentrated. Where the
timber is lighter than water, as in pine,
the moister wood will be heavier; but
where the wood is heavier than water, as
in many of our hardwoods, then the
more wood there is in a cubic foot the
heavier it will be. Of course, the weight
of a timber is governed more by its
nature than by the conditions in which
it is grown. Thus, among Westralian
timbers, tuart, which grows in a high-
rainfall area, at 72-751 b. a cubic foot, is
heavier than jarrah, at 64, or even gimlet,
which grows well into the desert and
weighs only about 68. But salmon-gum,
another dry-area tree, goes 79. And
here’s a point for Aboliars to chew
on. Morrell, which grows in the same
localities as salmoil-gum, is similar to
that tree in many ways, even to color;
but it’s not nearly as hard, and it splits
far more readily. And it weighs only
about 661 b.
SHRIKE-THRUSHES
Grey birds in the grey gum
0 stay and make your home
for I have waited long
to listen to such song.
One calls and one replies.
No hesitation is
in blithe theme, double tongue,
“We are forever young!”
1 may not move or speak
and scarcely dare to breathe
the better still to thrill
to his spontaneous trill,
her swift acknowledgment;
thus, for an hour, duet:
I wish with each repeat
all hours would be as sweet:
but they are moving on —
Stay, birds, in the grey gum!
They do not heed my words.
Too binding, love, for birds.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


II | I I V l .-' I
V'-V; «. ;'i.: ; f: ?;;- ... ;
m
*
m
m
•"V
■
L
fmSk
‘ Tou asked for Benson £f Hedges cigarettes, Sir?
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best, HENSON andH EDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine tobaccos . . .
ê
m/tf J/ie sfieM
m
i
Singapore
London or Pans or
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world —from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore —so will he notice, on his varied journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from London
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD-OLD BOND STREET-LONDON- W
tbw/lsS
ADD WITH
ONE FINGER
—fast and accurately
Why waste your time and energy in tedious adding up, and
risk making costly errbrs? With this amazing high-speed
Adding Machine you can reduce the brain-fag of adding figures
to a one-finger operation—and get right answers every time!
ë
personal portable ADDING MACHINE
can be mastered in five minutes. Over 1 3,000 are already in
use in Australia. Businesses of every kind—big and small—
farmers, professional men, find Contex a life-saver. Contex
adds in whole numbers, £ s. d., decimals, weights and
measures. It will take the burden of “figure-work” off your
shoulders for a mere
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra
£23/10
Write to CHARTRES Ltd.
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.
Howard St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wi6kham St,
Valley
Also 2,t I v •
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
Business.Rollery.Etc.
“Risk Capital”
Calculated gambling, as
The Bulletin has claimed
time and oft, is part of the
inspiration of private enterprise.
Without such gambling there
would be no development. An
inventor gambles with his time
and skill, an investor gambles
with his money, and many
gamble with their youth and
their health in order to win a
desired objective early in life.
All these things are purposeful
gambling. They seek to achieve
something other than the mere
changing of money from one
person’s hands to another’s. A
State lottery creates nothing in
the process of the gamble.
Horseracing these days is also
an unproductive pastime, though
in some ways a quite legitimate
entertainment. But investment
on the Stock Exchange has a
basis in industrial or financial
development of a country.
The Bank of England was a
speculative enterprise when it
was first established. The
Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey,
the Royal Dutch Shell combine,
the B.H.P. each had speculative
beginnings. But they all had a
basis in some sort of essential
economic activity. It was
intended by their founders of
their promoters that they should
one day earn profits by provid-
ing a useful service or selling a
desired commodity.
But to a multitude of people—
especially those who have had
little to do with the management
of business enterprises them-
selves —the simple fact about
large private enterprises listed on
the Stock Exchanges is that their
shares either go up or they go
down, and that dividends are or
aren’t paid regularly. It is the
ups and downs of share-prices
which fascinate so many people
interested in Stock Exchange
dealing today. Quite often the
person putting up the money is
not- very concerned about the
facts of the investment or specu-
lation.
The fault to be found with
the present boom in oil and
uranium shares on the Stock
Exchanges is not that there is at
present ready availability of
capital for the purpose of dis-
covering those minerals; it is
that the prime objective of the
capital-raising is lost to sight by
so many Stock Exchange specu-
lators—in their fascination by the
steep rise in share-values over the
past nine months—and that it
can be almost as readily lost to
sight by the promoters of new
companies themselves.
Calculated and purposeful
gambling is being displaced by
a wild rush to float companies
and to deal in their shares. The
discovery of minerals is in danger
of becoming a secondary con-
sideration. This is not the calcu-
lated and purposeful gambling
that brings national development
and creates new wealth. It is the
sterile lottery office all over
again, with the odds against the
uninitiated gambler.
Out of all the activity in
company-promotion and Stock
Exchange dealing which has
developed since the striking of
oil at Rough Range (W.A.) late
last year there will probably
come something of national
value. But the thing to be
remembered always is that
there will be numerous failures
among the companies formed
and to be formed. Speculation
in many cases has ceased to be
calculated and purposeful; Jt
has become reckless and
haphazard. Still, there is very
little that could or should be
done about it that public opinion,
acting on the advice of respon-
sible authorities, does not itself
<lo. Experience is generally
bought the hard way, and if the
Australian speculating public
continues to gamble purely on
"Be careful, officer—he's got the 'flu!"
Stock Exchange share-prices and
on market gossip and “furphies,”
that is the way it is going to buy
its experience in the present
boom.
Questions in W.A.
Mr. G. M. Cornell {Mt.
Marshall) in the W.A. Assembly
on August 9 (without notice )
asked Premier Hawke :
(1) Has he read the editorial
on page 18 of this morning’s
issue of the “West Australian”
headed, “Should Oil Speculation
Be Checked”?
(2) Does he not agree that the
present share-boom has been
accentuated in the main by the
influence of what might be
termed “sucker-money”?
(3) Whilst admitting that oil
is where you find it, does he not
agree that some of the recently
floated ventures have not a
feather -in - hell’s chance of
striking oil?
(4) Whilst conceding that he
is not his brother’s keeper—or
for that matter his sister’s either,
because the female of the species
appears to be equally infected
with the speculative •germ ; and
admitting that it is not easy to
legislate for fools —will he give
attention to protecting the public
against the activities of shyster
company - promoters; and, to
this end, would he carefully
consider taking action along the
lines suggested in the editorial
referred to?
The Premier replied: —
I am overwhelmed almost to
the point of being speechless by
the manner in which the ques-
tion has been submitted. I feel
capable of answering only one
question adequately, that ques-
tion being as to whether I have
read the editorial which appeared
in the “West Australian” this
morning in connection with the
boom in oil shares. The answer
to that question is “Yes.”
In connection with the balance
of the question I can only express
what think about the general
boom. Never having come into
possession of any “sucker-
money,” I do not even know
what it looks like, so I cannot do
much by way of reply to that
one. I feel that the oil boom is
completely out of hand. Who is
responsible for that, I am not
sure. I think that some of the
promoters are responsible and
probably some members of the
public.
At the back of my mind I
have the idea that the companies
associated with the prospecting
for oil should be very careful
what they say publicly about
what* they are doing and about
what they strike or are alleged to
have struck. Whether we should
get more upset and more excited
about this particular matter
than we do about the
large amount of gambling which
goes on regularly, I would not
quite be sure. There are various
forms of gambling—some of it
respectable, some of it not so
respectable; some of it covered
by the law, some of it not covered
by the law. Basically I think it
is all equally bad in the long
run.
I am sorry I am not able td
help the hon. member to a great
extent. Whether the question
deserves Government considera-
tion from the point of view as to
whether existing legislation is
strong enough or whether some
legislation should be attempted
to put a curb upon the activities
of some of these companies
might be worth thinking about.
All I can promise in that regard
is that I will do some thinking
about it on my own account.
Developmental Drilling
From L. Owen (consulting
petroleum - geologist): The
announcement by Wapet on
August 6 that the location of the
No. 3 drilling-site on the Rough
Range structure would be
delayed until the data obtained
in the drilling of the No. 2 test-
well had been properly studied
shows that the co.’s geologists
do not intend to tie-up any
equipment in wasteful drilling.
The sinking of No. 2 well was,
of course, justifiable, even if only
to obtain additional clues as to
the disposition of the Permian-
Cretaceous disconformity; but
to follow what one of Sydney’s
Sunday papers claims to be the
“original plan” for the develop-
ment of Rough Range would be
sheer folly.
No experienced petroleum-
geologist looks more than one
location ahead in the first stage
of the testing of an unproved
field; each well may modify to
an important degree the interpre-
tation of the underground struc-
ture and the probable disposition
of the underground oil on which
the location of the next well
depends. It is to be doubted,
therefore, if the drilling of four
(and possibly six) . boreholes
south-west of the discovery well,
and spaced, at intervals of
3000yds. and more, along the
surface trace of the major axis
of the outcropping domal struc-
ture at Rough Range, was either
originated or endorsed by
Wapet’s geological staff, which
includes highly qualified and
experienced members.
Even over proved “pools” the
developmental wells are normally
located not in line but on a
“diamond” grid.


50,000 LETTERS EVERY DAY
In the course of service to customers, A.N.Z. Bank
handles an average of 50,000 letters and other items
of mail every business day. They are posted to and
received from all over Australia and New Zealand
and the far corners of the world.
This great volume of mail is another indication of
the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank—with over
780 branches and agencies to serve you throughout
Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji and Papua, and
in London.
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank •_ Australasia
(Established 1835)
The Union Bank of Australia ltd.
(Established 1837)
Agents throughout the world.
-ANZ.106.12
inis
uon
ce
a
LOOK AT THESE LOW PRICES:
BASIC TRACTOR: Kerosene-operated with electric
lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar, inde-
pendent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat, chaff
screen and canvas engine cover— all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs—£799.
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE EQUIP-
MENT: 6.00 x 79, front; 11 x 36, rear; pressed steel
centres —£80 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; pressed steel centres
—£lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; heavy duty centres
(front centres 146 lbs. each, rear centres 630 lbs.
each) —£264 additional.
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT: 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and PTO, £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels are available.
NOTE: Tractor has now been increased a full 10% In
brake and drawbar h.p., and new modified front and
steering make it more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O. controls now engage independently—
operate separately or togefherl
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
BMC
Complete this coupon—or call or phone—and your nearest
Nuffield Dealer will arrange a special demonstration on your
property.
COUPON
Fill In this coupon. Address an envelope to fhe Nuffield Dealer in your
town or fo your Distributor (listed below).
PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS
NAME *
ADDRESS
ACREAGE MAIN CROP
OTHER USES FOR TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
Pty LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NUmaD (AUSTRALIA' PTY. LTD.. A UNII OF THE BRITISH MOTOK CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA! PTY. LTD.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Skilled Workers
In the ebb and flow of employ-
ment} New Zealand is making
no general headway, although
there’s improvement in some
main industries, most noticeably
building and engineering. These
two have been outbidding others
for labor, both men and youths,
and are likely to have a strong
pull so long as public and private
enterprise can afford to pay the
cost. Competition for man-
power has been a symptom of
N.Z.’s labor shortage for many
years, and is at the root of
inflated costs. New industries
based on commercial forestry
are now having their influence,
which will be an increasing one,
as N.Z. concentrates on produc-
tion of timber, pulp and paper
from its pine plantations. The
outlook is for intensified pressure
on the labor market, further
ineffective efforts to hold back
this pressure by controls over
prices and capital-spending, and
more delays in meeting many of
the everyday needs of Maori-
landers.
Youths and. new settlers are
human enough to be lured by
fat wages where big construction-
schemes are in hand or new
mills have to be manned, as the
best-paid workers today are
those who are prepared to leave
the cities for these places of
opportunity. Men brought in
from other countries under short-
term contract to the Government
or to other employers have been
moving on to other work as soon
as their time is up, and State
departments have been getting
into a fix again, from which the
only way of escape is to recruit
more abroad. Youths in their
teens haven’t been interested in
apprenticeships, except in big
industry, and generally most
trades have had a lean time of
it. It’s much the same with
girls, who choose highly paid ■
work in factories rather than
train for chances in shops and
offices.
Money is no real solution to
N.Z.’s present problems, which
can be cured only by everyone
working harder, or by speeding-
up immigration. Either method
would set things right. So far,
no one has thought of a way to
increase productivity in condi-
tions of labor shortage. Skilled
men and women from the other
side of the world have done well, -
but N.Z. hasn’t enough of them.
There’s no import the country
needs more than skill.
Freeing Exchange
Every few years New
Zealanders get excited about their
exchange, usually when a new
move is suddenly sprung on them
—e.g., in August, 1948, when
their £ was boosted back to
sterling parity, and in April, 1954,
when the Reserve Bank gave the
order to ration funds and save
the country from going broke.
Now the London pool is at
record level (£l4O million) it’s
time to countermand the order,
and from January 1 next the
R.B. will sit back and leave the
trading banks to take care of
things. Notice of the move, given
in the Budget, allows plenty of
time for everyone to get used
to the idea, so there’s not the
same thrill, or shock, as on past
occasions, but there is a general
feeling of pleasure in importing-
ranks in anticipation of the
better day that’s coming.
No one can figure out how
much,real freedom the move will
bring, for a change of control
is no automatic convertibility
guarantee. The banks will be
bound to hold a tighter rein than
three years ago, for several
reasons, apart from keeping on
side with the R. 8.; to prove
their capacity to manage the
exchange in their own way,
rather than take orders from the
R. 8., they will want to make
amends for the failure of 1952,
and they are keen to regain
freedom, which is the key to the
future. Things are more favor-
able today. Importers have had
a sharp lesson, the market is
fairly well supplied with most
goods, and trade is steadier.
Lest importers should be
tempted to overstep the mark,
the governor of the R.B. (E. C.
Fussell) has given them a hint
to take it easy. Says he: “The
freedom that is coming is bound
with links of steel to a very strong
obligation ; that obligation is for
all importers, whether manufac-
turers, wholesalers, indentors or
individuals, to make very sure
how they stand with their
market, and very sure how they
stand with their bankers, before
they enter into commitments.”
To understand the governor’s
feelings, all that’s necessary is to
glance back a year or two.
Under the allocation system, the
Reserve Bank has had to wrestle
with an “Everest of exchange
demands,” which have out-
stripped allocations by more
than 50 p.c. The bank gave a
warning in its annual report
about “the continuation, even
intensification, of inflationary
pressure,” and advised the trad-
ing banks to soft-pedal on credit.
If traders and others were to get
all the credit they’d like, up
would go demands for local and
imported goods, beyond the
country’s capacity to produce
or to buy abroad, except for a
limited time.
Credit will be under pressure
while capital-spending is on the
present scale, and the surest way
to protect the exchange is for
the banks to keep a firm hold
internally.
Tip Top Ice-cream
Growth and sales have been
Outstripping profits in the ice-
cream trade in N.Z. since the
biggest co. in the field, the Tip
Top Ice Cream Co. (Auckland),
Ltd., began swallowing up rivals
and laying out capital on
development some years ago.
Today this 16-year-old has
interests in Australia and the
Pacific Islands, as well as in
most parts of the North Island
of N.Z., and is the prime mover
in a half-million plan for a
garden-factory estate at Papa-
toetoe, 10 miles south of
Auckland.
The co. is growing at such a
rate that new plant and premises
can’t be paid for much longer on
the present low capital basis of
£125,484, so it’s getting ready to
increase the amount to a quarter
of a million in five-bob shares,
which should be easy to float in
view of the popularity of exist-
ing scrip of the same face-value,
which has been selling above
225., with a 15 p.c. div. Issues
will be progressive to keep
development moving steadily,
and the div. should be safe
enough as the co. has been
ploughing back more than half
net earnings for years, and has
proved its capacity to expand
without suffering any ill-effects
from the financial squeeze. The
present tendency far turnover to
get ahead of profits is of short-
term significance only, for some
of the co.’s ventures are still in
the establishment stage.
For instance, the five Aus-
tralian subsids. of Toppa Hold-
ings, Ltd., formed over the past
18 months still have to show
what they can do. Tip Top is
the largest shareholder in this
group. These subsidiaries are:
Toppa Ice Cream Pty., Utd., which
has been building up its business in
Melbourne and has bought out lava-
loro Bros., in Bendigo, a new area
with good prospects;
Polar Products Pty., Utd., Gee-
long, a handy source for milk-
supplies as well as a distribution
network in those parts;
Toppa Products (Tas.) Pty. Btd.
CLaunceston), successor to United
Dairies & Cool Stores Pty., Ltd.,
with interests in butter-exports,
milk-supply and meat-distribution,
and with plans to open the first ice-
cream factory in Tasmania;
Poodguard Pty., Utd. (Melbourne),
which makes refrigerated cabinets
and milk-bar appliances, and has
ancillary services to help Toppa
undertakings;
Business Investments Pty., Ltd.
(Melbourne), business-brokers within
the Toppa Group for sale-and-pur-
chase service in dairies and milk-bars.
Says Tip Top: “These five
complementary cos., developing
in mutual support within the
orbit of Toppa Holdings Pty.,
Ltd., form a pattern of vision
and foresight. To date, dividend
disbursement has been sub-
ordinated to long-term develop-
mental plans, which have
required re-employment of
profits in immediate oppor-
tunities for consolidation.”


05
£
O
Incorporated m Victoria in 1878
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 76 years
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
TR16C.35
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
THANKING is intimately interwoven
with every section of our economic
activity, upon which banking-policy
exerts a powerful influence. The big
changes which have swept the Australian
economy during the last decade can be
broadly grouped into four stages. The
first was the early post-war period of
shortages, controls, risiqg prices and
rapidly expanding industrial and other
activity in a sheltered market. The second
started with the sharp rise in wool prices
after the outbreak of the Korean war.
It was accompanied by an accumulation
of overseas funds and great increases in
internal inflationary pressure, despite
what was done to neutralise it. The third
saw the effects of this pressure working
itself out. There was a flood of imports,
a simultaneous fall in wool-values, but
not to unpayable levels, an even sharper
fall in the country’s overseas reserves,
and selective tightening of credit, etc.
The fourth stage, one of adjustment
and recovery, is still in the process of
working itself out. Import-restrictions,
which have been relaxed,
and a partial recovery and firming of
wool prices took the sting out of the tail
of excessive imports. As trade inventories
were worked down, bank deposits grew
and trade quickened. The overall im-
provement continued during the 12
months to June 30 last, when the out-
standing achievements were a virtual
halting of the upsurge in costs and prices,
following suspension of the automatic in-
crease in the basic wage in September
last, and a heartening growth in industrial
productivity.
The volume of banking business kept
step with the times, and banking policy
has been adapted to developments, but
profits have remained within the frame-
work of legislative controls. The new
# banking Act of 1953, however,
* eased the position somewhat by
giving more elbow-room in the
field of advances and investment, etc.,
by placing the special-account system on
a more satisfactory footing, and by put-
ting the trading section of the Common-
wealth Bank on a more competitive
footing.
Advances grew faster than deposits last
term, and there was a spring of £78,876
in the declared net earnings of the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia —that was
after allowing £763,860 (up £143,928)
for taxation and something for pther con-
tingencies :
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1948.. 300,798 9 p.c. = 180,000 35,000 2,374,900
1949.. 320,636 10 ~,, 200,000 35,000 2,876,842
1960.. 334,796 10 ~,,200,000 35,000 2,390,944
1951.. 336,012 10 ~,,200,000 85,000 2.407,262
1962.. 340,563 10 „ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 „ ~200,000 125,000 2,429,782
Share premiums, £750,000 .. ..• 8,179,782
1954.. 500,221 10 p.c. = 268,150 135,000 3,192,159
* In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Because there was more capital to feed
the ratio of profit to average ord. capi-
tal (after payment of the pref. div.) was
15.4 p.c. as against 16.8, 12.8, 12.5, 12.5
and 11.7 p.c. back to 1949. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was no more than
6 p.c., same as for the previous year.
Until last term new capital had been
issued at a premium of 100 p.c., which
makes the 10 p.c. worth only 5 p.c. in
the hands of shareholders.
In July, 1953, 2,105,868 new 10s. shares
were put out at a premium of 7s. 6d.
each, making 10 p.c. worth 5.7 p.c. on
that lot. The new capital (£1,052,934)
and share-premiums (£750,000 net, which
was added to reserves), together with an
extra £8,152,825 of deposits, and more
besides, went mainly into advances (up
£11,663,827):
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Preference .. 2,117.350 2,117,350 2,117,350
Ordinary .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 8,052,934
Reserves .. 2,418,131 2,429,782 3,192,159
Notes . . . . 5,103 .'5,102 5,102
Deposits, etc.* 152,582,363 177,282,772 185,435,597
Other banks .. 16,089 23,668 436,290
Final divs. .. 142,347 142,347 189,467
159.281.383 184,001,021 194,428,899
Liquid assets.. 46,776,335 58,620,495 56,327,197
Special deposits
central bank. 21,248,009 34,548,000 35,648,000
Advances .. 88,118,807 87,388,435 99,052,262
Bank premises. 3,138,241 3,444,091 3,401,440
159.281.383 184,001,021 194,428,899
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
Low-interest-bearing liquids were reduced
by £2,293,298, while the special deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank increased
by £1,100,000. When the books closed
the ratio of advances to deposits was
53.4 p.c. (49,3 p.c. a year earlier), and
liquids amounted to 30.3 p.c. of liabilities
to the public. It is a strong position from
the banking point of view. The bulk of
net earnings, however, appears to come
largely from the investment basket.
At the moment the economic outlook
is stable. World conditions generally
are against a recurrence of shortages
and rapid price-increases in consumer
markets. Internally the danger-spot at
the moment lies in the building and ancil-
lary trades? where demand is beginning
to outrun supplies of materials and labor.
Hence the need to limit expansion to
available resources.
At 20s. 6d. (same as a year ago) the
f.-p. 10s. ords. return 4.8 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, with satisfactory long-
term prospects. The £lO prefs. at £8 2s.
yield 4.9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £39 10s. prefs. and 20s. 6d. ords.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
ONE of the biggest and most fashion-
able hotels in the Commonwealth,
the Australia has £500,000 of capital to
feed, of which £33,000 carries a fixed
cumulative 6 p.c. There was little change
in last term’s declared net earnings (up
£769), and the margin in excess of divi-
dend requirements (the ord. rate was
maintained at 8 p.c.) remained slender, as
the following table shows:
f ' Dividends Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1947 .. 33,545 1980 7 p.c. = 32,690 222,914
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 212,914
1948 .. 27,105 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 210,019
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 200,019
1949 .. 27,345 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 197,364
1950 .. 30,342 1980 6 „ „ 28,020 197,706
1951 .. 34,987 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 198,022
1952 . . 35,535 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 198,887
Renewal res. drawn upon, £21,940 .. 176,947
1953 .. 42,152 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 179,759
Renewal res. drawn upon, £18,060 .. 161,699
1954 .. 42,921 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 165,280
t Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding de-
preciation reserve (£27,934 as at June 30, 1954).
The £42,921 of profit, best since 1946,
covered the pref. div. and 8.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 8.6, 7.2, 7,6, 5.4 and
5.3 p.c. back to 1948. It was written
after allowing £25,000 (up £15,000) for
depreciation and £24,000 (down £22,000)
for taxation.
Yet the price of the f.-p. £1 ords.
strengthened steadily from 21s. 9d, at
, the end of May, 1953, to 265. at the
end of June, 1954, and then shot up to
30s. last week, following publication of
the latest accounts. The immediate
return at 30s. is 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 6 p.c. should the distribu-
tion be lifted to 9 p.c. The prefs. at
21s. 6d. yield 5.6 p.c. Excluding the
depreciation reserve, net tangible cover
(book-value) is £l9 Bs. sd. prefs. and 265.
ords.
Behind the stiffening of the price of
the scrip lies improvement in both the
domestic and overall economic outlook
for the co. Last term spending became
freer as the year advanced, and the
volume of trade in the bar, lounge, cater-
ing and guest-occupancy sections
strengthened, especially during the last
half of the term. Though the cost of
foodstuffs rose, wage-rates have remained
pegged since September, 1953, and the
taxgatherer called for less, as already
pointed out. On the domestic side a big
and expensive programme of modernisa-
tion was carried out following the lifting
of building restrictions. All public rooms
have been redecorated, and “now provide
accommodation for functions in settings
far superior to any other hotel in Aus-
tralia,” the chairman claims. At the same
time additional bathroom accommoda-
tion was provided in the residential sec-
tion, raising the number of rooms with
bathroom attached to approximately 300.
It all cost £ 195,000-odd, of which
£ 177,000-odd was charged against the
depreciation reserve, reducing it to
£27,934 (not included with reserves in the
above table) and £ 18,000-odd against the
renewals reserve, which is now wiped
out. There has thus been no change in
the book-value of property and equip-
•ment:
1952. 1953. 1954,
Paid capital .. £500,003 £500,003 £500,003
Reserves . . . . 198,887 179,758 165,280
Depreciation res... 170,000 180,000 27,934
Mortgage . . .. 150,000 150,000 225,000
Creditors . . .. 115,820 109,672 154,343
Final divs. .. 19,670 22,005 22,005
£1,154,380 £1,141,438 £1,094,565
Property and equip-
ment .. .. 1,018,483 1,023,192 1,023,192
Stock . . . . 37,301 23,252 22,262
Book debts .. 20,596 19,294 20,611
Cash, etc. .. 53,000 50,700 3,500
Goodwill .. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
£1,154,380 £1,141,438 £1,094,565
The money was found by adding £75,000
to the mortgage, £44,671 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors and by draw-
ing upon cash, etc., for £47;200. When
the books closed there was 10s. lid. of
outside money in the business for every
£1 belonging to shareholders, including
the depreciation reserve.
In this class of hotel, more than in
most others, maintenance of a high stand-
ard of service and comfort is the back-
bone of goodwill, which means patron-
age, though some of the services yield
little or no direct profit. With the dis-
location due to renovations and improve-
ments out of the way, and with the
economic barometer steady, and since
Government control of tariff charges,
etc., has been relaxed, the way is open
for further improvement in gross earn-
ings. Hopes are that any growth in wage
and other costs will be moderate. Thus
prospects of a lift in the div. for the
current term to, say, 9 p.c. look bright
enough at the moment.
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney)
Shareholders in this oid-estab-
lished builders’-hardware business,
which supplies the trade with practically
everything except timber, bricks and
roofing-tiles, have fared well to date, and
prospects of further benefits look bright.
The ord. div. climbed from 6 p.c. in 1935
—when branches were opened at Hurst-
ville and Parramatta (N.S.W.) and the
public put up £25,000 of 6 p.c. pref.
capital—to 8 p.c. three years later,
remained steady until 1945, rose to \l%
p.c. in 1946, to 15 p.c. for the next five
years, and then dropped to 12% p.c. for
the three years to the close of last
accounts.
Since the war the building trade has,
for the most part, been hungry for sup-
plies, and the business has expanded
rapidly. Since May, 1947, those on the
ord. register have put up £124,633 of
fresh cash-paid capital, plus £37,599 of
share-premiums, and (in March, 1951)
they were handed £101,192 of bonus-
scrip, one for two. It all lifted paid capi-
tal to £326,812 in 25,000 6 p.c, prefs. and
301,812 ords., which had the support
and assistance of £234,815 of reserves at
May 31 last.
The tightening of credit and slackening
of activity in new building during the
1953 term resulted in a slip of only 1|
p.c. in turnover, and a contraction of
no more than £2230 in declared net earn-
ings, thanks largely to increased demand
in connection with alterations and repairs.
Last term the credit position eased,
building activity gathered momentum,
turnover expanded and the rate of co.-
tax was lighter. So, although margins
were narrower, the board was able to
show £4114 more profit:
, Dividends N Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948 .. 28,427 6 15 15,839 73.874
Premium on shares, £31,333.. 105,207
1949* .. 34,524 6 15 18,223 121,508
Premium on shares, £6266 .. 127,774
1950 .. 44,602 6 15 23,829 148,547
Revaluation assets, £66,071 .. 214,618
Reserves capitalised, £101,192.. 118,426
1951 .. 63,787 6 15 36,146 141,067
1962 .. 70,658 6 12J 39,227 172,498
1953 .. 68,328 6 12| 39,226 201,600
1954 ~ 72,442 6 12i 39,227 234,815
The £72,442 of profit was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show an attractive
23.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 22.1,
22.9, 20.4, 28.9 and 27.9 p.c. back to
1949. The div. was kept at 12£ p.c.,
leaving £33,215 (45.8 p.c.) of the year’s
profit to plough back into the business
and help finance expansion.
During the year a garage and bulk-store
property was bought at Mascot, £lO,OOO
was spent on improvements, etc., to the
Parramatta branch, to which further
additions are to be made, and erection of
a new warehouse (two stories and base-
ment containing 30,000 square feet of
floor-space) was begun. The net addi-
tion to freeholds and plant was £24,312:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £25,000 £25,000 £25.000
Ord 301,812 301,812 301,812
Reserves .. .. 172,498 201,600 234,815
Creditors .. .. 194,746 225,405 254,277
Tax provision .. .. 97,044 73,817 51,817
Final divs 23,386 23,386 23,386
£814,486 £851,020 £891,107
Freeholds, plant, etc... 180,755 193,305 217,617
Stocks 394,948 356,811 384,019
Debtors 234,942 252,664 285,585
Cash and investments .. 3,841 48,240 3,886
£814,486 £851,020 £891,107
To meet the outlay on fixed assets,
carry £27,208 more stocks and an extra
£32,921 of book-debts, as well as reduce
the, tax-liability (down £22,000), only
£28,872 was added to the outside debt.
Subject to economic developments, the
outlook in the building and ancillary
trades is one of strong demand for some
time to come. To see the new warehouse,
etc., to completion, extra finance will be
required, and the board “will give this
matter consideration when it becomes
necessary,” the chairman says.
Hopes are that those on the ord. regis-
ter will be asked to assist. The market
therefore prices the Scrip at 565. (435. 9d.
a year ago) to give an immediate return
of only 4.4 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div. basis.
A one-for-two new share-issue at par,
and maintenance of the div. at \l\ p.c.,
would lift the return to the ords. to
6.2 p.c., as well as provide a capital gain.
The pref. div. and \2\ p.c. to the ords.
would then call for £14,000-odd less profit
than was claimed last term. The well-
protected prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.


i
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
range.
JJL Ladies
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
*>
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
<JL - Every LAVINA has a non-
“ magnetic escapement and a
17-jewel led movement.
lAVMNA
m
ss
9s
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
LINK BELT
KEEPS
YOU
SUM
& FIT
Hi
m
Sold only by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS STREET, MELB.
M
Circular Charti for all typ««
of Recording Instruments
(or mny dui of Mrchtoorj
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Spoeioltp
mmu o r si oj vAN^ii
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLL ISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
RUTILE SAND
Established European Ore ana
Metal Merchants desire contact
Australasian Producers of
Rutile Sand with a view to long-
term arrangements for regular
purchases; will afford financial
assistance if desired. Write in the
first instance LIONEL DARE
& REED & MARTIN, Solicitors,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO DONALD RALPH YOUNG late of
Lenah Valley Tasmania and Petersham
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN LILLIAN YOUNG has filed a Peti-
tion No. 2679 of 1954 under Tasmanian
Law for Divorce from you on the grounds
of desertion If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney by the
Twenty-ninth day of December 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MERVYN FINLAY & COM-
PANY, Solicitors, Newlands House, 141
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Missing Beneficiaries
ALBERT JAMES NOBLE. WILLIAM Mc-
GOWAN NOBLE, RONALD NOBLE and
NORMAN JOHN NOBLE, or anyone
claiming through them to share in the
estate of FERDINANDA CLAUDIA
NOBLE, are requested to communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice
I, ANNA ELIZABETH FRANOHICH,
Stateless, bom at Shanghai, China, resi-
dent for ii years In Australia, now re-
siding at 10 Boyce Street, Glebe Point,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
iktlili tnilic
Future
'
Some experiences in life are permanent and
unforgettable. They corpe floating in from the wide
fields of memory when others are hazed over or lost
to remembrance.
One of my most vivid experiences was my visit
to our cattle property at Alice Springs recently. We
went to Ayers Rock and Mount Olga, two towers of
Nature that almost defy description in their mass and
in the richness of their colour.
It was Life, in complete and utter detachment, to
sleep near them under the stars after the sun had left
a crimson sky and the moon at full had joined the
stars, with Mars close to the earth, and Venus looking
on.
In the stillness and the warmth, one listened to a
chorus of the insect kingdom, a world of its own, while
somewhere in the night a dingo called ; watched the
campfire dying into embers, and saw beyond, the Rock
silhouetted in the moonlight; woke at dawn as light
was coming up in the East and the moon was silvering
into the West.
Hereabouts, Lasseter camped on one of his
journeys. Here, aboriginal tribes held their religious
ceremonies in years gone by, marking the Rock in
carvings to signify their own spiritual stretchings
towards the eternal.
Our party was made up of men to whom Australia
is very dear. Living there together at its very heart,
without clock or calendar, we talked of this country;
of the age of its past, its present opportunity, the
exciting promise of its future.
And, being mere men, sometimes we ate steaks
from our own rearing on a property that has been
watered and improved in pasture to prove what lies
there for the tapping in the Australian interior.
You will pardon me, X am sure, if I tell you that
those beef steaks, cooked in the bushman’s way, will
take their place with the majesty of the mountains
and the flowering patches on the plains, in my
recollections of a priceless journey.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
é
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
C Please add exchange to country cheques )
Elphinslones, Ltd. (Bris.)
THIS Brisbane automotive-
parts and -supplies distribut-
ing and servicing business was
founded by A. C. Elphinstdne
in 1918, and incorporated two
years later. In 1921 paid capital
was £1942, and by 1938 had
grown to £18,771. The public
put up £20,000 of 5 p.c. pref.
money in 1948 and a further
£20,500 in 1950, and in 1951
ord. capital was doubled by a
bonus issue of £40,739 from
freehold revaluation reserve. A
cash issue of 30,000 £1 ords. m
the following year was taken up
by ord. and pref.-holders, and
qualified the co. for public-co.
tax and the ord. capital for Stock
Exchange listing.
Backbone of the business is
the sole agencies in Queensland
for Lucas electrical equipment
and C.A.V. diesel-fuel injection
equipment. Number of motor-
vehicles registered in the northern
State has increased from 128,163
at June, 1939, to 276,300 at
December last, and most of the
new vehicles are of English
manufacture fitted with Lucas
and C.A.V. equipment. Other
well-known products among the
co.’s* agencies are Solex
carburettors, Eveready batteries.
Lodge and A.C. spark-plugs,
Lockheed brake parts and fluid,
and Repco piston-rings. The
co.’s workshops repair and
service automotive electrical
equipment and C.A.V. diesel-
fuel injection-components. Be-
sides the Brisbane head-office
there are three branches at
Townsville, Rockhampton and
Toowoomba.
Hefre are the prospectus figures
for profits adjusted on a public-
co. basis, and percentages to
present ord. capital of £111,478,
after deducting pref. charges;
Adjusted Rate to Ord.
Net Profit. Capital.
1948 .. .. £7,819 5.19% '
1949 . . .. 6,914 4.38
1950 . . .. 8,988 6.24 „
1951 .. .. 11,722 8.69 „
1952 . . . . 16,751 18.21 „
The 8 p.c. div. forecast in the
prospectus was comfortably
covered by the latest earnings:
z -a —Dividends —>
Pref. Re-
Feb.,Profit. 5 p.c. / Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
’53..15,686 2025 19i p.c.f= 8424 52,227
Provision for long-service
leave, £lOOO .. .. 51,227
>54.. 19,205 2025 8 f.C. = 8918 59,489
t Nil on bonus issue and 8 p.c. on new
issue.
The £19,205 (up £3519) wa$ 4
struck after charging £3312 (up
£501) for depreciation and
£12,500 (down £2500) for tax,
and equalled 15.4 p.c. on ord.
capital after deducting pref.
charges, as against 12.3 jxc. in
the previous term.
Hie financial set-up is sound:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. £40,500 £40,500 £40,500
Ord. .. 81,478 111,478 111,478
Reserves .. 42,069 52,226 59,489
Mortgage .. 14,700 14,100
Overdrafts 24,943 9,843 45,887
Tax prov’s’n 28,437 31,313 29,447
Creditors .. 69,353 $7,806 43,329
Final divs. 5,093 8,424 8,918
£291,873 £306,290 £353,148
Freeholds .. 87,476 88,480 109,604
Plant, etc... 15,183 16,151 22,926
Stock . . 113,618 122,540 134,445
Debtors .. 71,718 75,290 81,906
Cash, etc. .. 3,978 3,829 4,267
£291,873 £306,290 £353,148
Principal balance-sheet move-
ments were additions of £27,899
to fixed assets, £11,905 to stocks
and £6616 to book-debts, to
finance which the co. used surplus
profits, added £5523 to creditors’
balances and went to its bankers
for £36,044,
With a record and still-growing
number of vehicles on the
register, the outlook for the
future is bright* And a co. such
as this, the bulk of whose busi-
ness is in spare-parts supply and
servicing, is comparatively
immune to setbacks in new-
vehicle sales. The £1 ords. are
priced at. 275. (235. a year ago)
to yield 5.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net assets cover is
30s. Bd.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
One of the Anglo-Oriental
group, Rawang Concessions
(paid capital £200,000 in £1
shares) has given a good account
of itself since the dredge was
transferred from the original
Rawang area to new leases at
Ulu Yam (F.M.S.), where dig-
ging began in June, 1950.
Operating results over the last
four years compare as fol-
lows :
Year Treat-
to Tr’ted Yield ment
March ’OOO, t. 0., Costs, Profit. Divs.
31, c.y. Tons. c.y. £ £
18.5 p.c.
1951.. 1886 499.8 16.4 d. 85,729 37,000
52.5 p.c.
1952.. 2477 726.5 17.2 „ 105,063 105,000
1953 r. 2477 768.8 15.9 „ 108,932 105,000
28.0 p.c.
1954.. 2444 702.6 18.7 65,687 66,000
It was the sharp fall in
the price of tin which brought
last term’s profit and dividend
down. A reduction'©! 2.2 d. per
c.y. in operating costs, and cut
of £35,000 in provision for taxa-
tion (£35,000), helped to cushion
the bump. The £65,687 (down
£43,245) of profit was 32.8 p.c.
on capital as against 54.4 p.c. for
the previous ,year. The div. was
lowered from a nominal 15s. to
Bs. per share, subject to 30 p.c.
Malayan income-tax. The net
rate was thus 28 p.c. as against
52.5 p.c. for the two preceding
terms.
The 702.6 tons of tin-ore
recovered assayed 74.8 p.c., being
thus equal to 525,51 tons (down
49.6 tons) metallic tin, which
realised an average of £640.8
(down £293.4) per ton. Exclud-
ing tax-provision, costs were
£479.7 (down £126.1) per ton,
savings being made under all
headings of outgo and charges.
Finances are comfortable. At
March 31 last cash, book-debts
and Government securities
totalled £466,092, and current
liabilities (including the final
div.) amounted to £115,069, leav-
ing a surplus of £351,023, equal
to 355. Id. per share. Stores, etc.,
figured at £61,173.
The London average spot price
of tin per ton, which fell from
£5753.2 for April last to £5721.7
for May, stood at £5726 on
August 10.
Although the long-term out-
look for the metal is one of
surplus production, producers’
prospects have improved on two
counts. First is that enough
signatures to the International
Tin Agreement have now been
obtained to bring it into force.
Second is the fact that this year
the U.S. has bought for stockpile
18.000 tons of tin from Indo-
nesia, and is to buy about 10,000
tons from Bolivia, thus effec-
tively counterbalancing an esti-
mated world surplus of some
30.000 tons for 1954. Next year,
however, conditions may well be
different. Hence the importance
of an international agreement,
which provides for a floor-price
of £S64O and a ceiling-price of
£SBBO per ton, as well as for
operation of a buffer stock-pool
to ensure reasonable price-
stability.
Last reported sale of the co.’s
shares on Sydney ’Change was
at 61s.


Women's Letters
ê
Klippel, Mr. and Mrs. C. Horler, Mr.
and Mrs. Proctor Browne, Mrs. T. Bate-
man, Mrs. G. M. King with her daughter
Judy, Mrs. Alex Morgan and Mrs. H.
Bott.
* * *
The Food for Babies’ Fund will benefit
from thd Personality Parade held at
Prince’s last week, when several hundred
of its supporters went along to see the
new spring fashions. Mrs. Ken Pointing
was hostess, and a first-class musical pro-
gramme was provided, as well as the
fashion-show. The artists were American
singing-star Tony Fontane ; Marie Tysoe,
soprano; George Humphries, pianisf,
and John Young, bass-baritone. John
Young, by the way, recently became
engaged, soon after his return from
abroad, to harpist Sidonie Goossens,
elder daughter of Mr. Eugene Goosens,
conductor of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. They plan to marry fin
September.
Gillian Bunning plays the part of Mrs.
Morley in John Watson’s “Dark Secret,”
which had its world premiere at the
Metropolitan Theatre last Thursday. Mrs.
Bunning is the wife of architect Walter
Bunning. and is well known in repertory-
theatre circles in Sydney. She is making
her first appearance at the Metropolitan
in this role. Photo by Dorothy Welding.
Held at the opening of Education
Week, the reception by the Royal Empire
Society on Monday was attended by many
distinguished members of the education-
world. Among the guests invited were
Dr. Harold Wyndham (Director-General
of Education) and Mrs. Wyndham, Mr.
N. W, Drummond (Deputy Director-
General of Education) and Mrs. Drum-
mond, Mr. P. G. Price (Director of
Secondary Education) and Mrs. Price,
Mr. D. J. A. Verco and Mrs. Verco,
Mr. C. H. J. McKinnon and Mrs. McKin-
non, Mr. Hal Missingham and Mrs.
Missingham, Mr. H. Wood (Director of
the Observatory) and Mrs. Wood, Pro-
fessor C. R. Mcßae and Mrs. Mcßae,
Mr. J. Metcalfe and Mrs. Metcalfe,
Professor Stephen H. Roberts and Mrs.
Roberts, Mr. E. W. Burbridge and Mrs.
Burbridge, Mr. Wallace Wurth and Mrs.
Wurth, and Dr. Morven Brown (senior
lecturer in education at the University
of Sydney) and Mrs. Brown.
Two young artists from West Australia
won the finals of the A.B.C.’s Concerto
and Vocal Competition, held at the Town
Hall last Saturday night. They were
soprano Patricia Wyatt and pianist
Donald Thornton. Adjudicator Walter
Susskind, who brought along his new
bride, said he had judged competitions
of a similar nature in many countries
and it was his honest and considered
opinion that the level of the night’s per-
formances compared most favorably with
abroad, though he added that he was
surprised that in this country, which is
noted for singers, the instrumental sec-
tion was of much higher standard than
the vocal. '
There were six girls in the finals :
Judith Staff (N.S.W.), contralto, who
wore a white silk dress printed with an
ë
Lois Stevens, well-known Sydney man-
nequin, here models a hat in the Anne
Collins collection at Melbourne’s Hotel
Australia. An original model by Rose
Descat in the newest pillbox shape, the
hat introduces the wild-duck feathers in a
glamorous shade of shocking-pink. These
feathers adorn the front and sweep out to
the side.
Spring came from Sydney in the form
of delightful hats which were seen in
the collection of Anne Collins models.
The trend this spring and summer is for
tiny hats, many of them little more than
a whirl of organza or chiffon or the new
Italian hand-made straw.
There were platters, sailors and berets
with tiny brims, all becomingly tilted on
the brow. The flower-motif was expressed
on many lovely hats ; roses or forget-me-
nots were perched pre'ttily on shallow
brim or crown. The large cartwheel hats
are no longer made on strictly tailored
lines, but have softly undulating and
downward-shaping brims. On small hats
a veil makes an attractive finish, but is
never used on the large hat.
A lovely Dior rose in soft-pink tonings,
deepening into shocking-pink, made the
tiniest of evening hats, whilst of
black forget-me-nots, giving the impres-
sion that they were falling off, trimmed a
three-sided platter-hat. Ondine-straw was
used extensively to make flowers and
leaves. Fancy Italian straws, all hand-
made, were used for the beret-style cloche.
Pink and yellow spots on white back-
grounds and unusual checks were seen.
A medium-droop hat designed by Paulette
was made in the new woven-straw in
white, with a satin-spotted finish and lined
in porcelain-blue.
Blue is seen in all tonings from very
pale to deep-navy. Popular shades are
celadon, opaline and porcelain. For day-
time wear Dior chooses navy, black and
grey. For evenings, blue, pink and red.
Jacques Path chooses all shades of blue,
a chestnut-flower-pink, and navy. Bal-
main’s choice is grey combined with reds
and pinks, all the blues, with turquoise
used for harmony or contrasting effect.
Pink on white and yellow on white are
very new color-combinations. Beige has
given way to pretty pastels.
Among a number of original models
from Vernier were several styles chosen
by the Duchess of Kent and Princess
Alexandra. For the Princess he made a
tiny shell-hat of softest pedal-straw in
pale-opaline blue, with tiny straw leaves
curling round on to the face at each side.
Among Vernier’s large hats was one
elegant model in pale-yellow felt, the brim
slightly drooping and the crown, small
and high, banded in black. The Duchess
of Kent wore this style, in white “felt
banded with red georgette, to Ascot. A
toque by Jacques Path was made in white
organza with a whirl of white starchiness
forming a rose at centre-front. One of the
loveliest hats was a Path design: very
large, of pink Leghorn-straw, it had a
huge bow of pink satin-ribbon laid across
the brim in front. In contrast was a tiny-
brimmed sailor-hat by Legroux Sceurs
composed of strands of yellow and white
straw intricately swathed and twisted to
give the effect of draping.
☆ * *
“It does pleasure me so” was the charm-
ing Old English phrase used by Dame
Sybil Thorndike when she thanked mem-
bers of the Overseas League for the
luncheon given for her and Sir Lewis
Casson at Giro’s. Both Sir Lewis and
Dame Sybil spoke—she about friendship
of ail English-speaking people, which was
one of the most important things in the
world; he of the desire which he and
his wife had to preserve and to spread
knowledge of the great traditional trea-
sure-trove of English literature.
Later in the day Sir Lewis and Dame
Sybil were guests-of-honor at a reception
arranged by the Victorian Speech Asso-
ciation. They were received by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Rita Fleming, vice-presidents
Misses Grace Chitty and Mary Page, and
the secretary. Miss Lorna Jeffrey. The
John Cassons were there; so were Sue
Wilson (wearing a leopard cloche and
stole with her black suit) and Francine
Scullion (in small emerald-green hat
which had a jewelled band and a light-
tangerine cloth coat).
*• it *
To celebrate the coming-of-age of
their twin-son David and -daughter Anne,
Mr. Justice Sholl and Mrs. Sholl enter-
tained a number of young guests at a
late-afternoon party at the English Speak-
ing Union’s rooms in South Yarra. Mrs.
Sholl wore a sequin-trimmed black
frock ; Anne chose a bronze shot-taffeta
sheatk-frock. Mr. W. A. Benson, uncle
of the twins, who was accompanied by
Mrs. Benson, proposed the health of the
guests-of-honor.
Guests included sisters Barbara and
Jennifer Hewitt; Robin Wright, whose
scarlet-wool frock was trimmed with gold-
jewelled braid; Mitzi Meldrum, in full-
skirted frock of grey-blue velvet
appliqued with white guipure-lace at neck
and short sleeves ; Robin Crawford,
whose deep-jade-green shantung featured
an accordion-pleated skirt; Julie Per-
mezel, her choice pink-spotted grey tie-
silk ; Meriel Travers, who wore a grey
tailored suit; Peggy Tellick, her charcoal-
grey English-flannel suit worn with a
black velvet pillbox-hat; and Meredith
Dawson, her black faille , frock full-
skirted.
* ☆
Colonel Walker Milner (who replaces
Colonel John W- Middleton as U.S. Mili-
tary Attache) and Mrs. Milner were in-
troduced to many Australians and Ameri-
cans at a late-afternoon party given in
their honor by Colonel and Mrs. Middle-
ton at their South Yarra home. Mrs.
Middleton chose a ballerina frock of
black net with bands of gold embroidery
on the full skirt. Mrs. Milner wore a
pastel-blue lace dress with a matching
blue satin cummerbund clinching the
waist.


m
J 7
- /Al Hospital ***-
/
r^
s m»ii
eauT
KC
RAN
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction.
A Product of the House
TUCKER AND CO.* PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, ESTB. 1838
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
The Passion in Paris
What a useful character, after
all, is the Devil. There would
be so little fun in a religious
drama without him.
Here he is Serge Lifar, caper-
ing in red tights, alone on the
vast platform and the stone steps
between tower and tower of
Notre Dame.
Around the island of the
cathedral twines the Seine, its
arms full of dead fish. Bleak
though the summer is, there has
been what Paris calls a drought.
The fountains, like the bright
lights of the Folies Bergeres, the
casino and all the other places,
run only at night, for the tourists.
The river is stagnant. Beyond
it, wrapped in night and the cold
wind, crouches the city, grey,
sour, crumbling, enigmatic.
Now, to the left of the vast
stage, there are angels advanc-
ing upon the Devil; hundreds of
them, winged and misty, singing
as they come. From the right,
from the scarlet pit of hell, leap
the lesser devils and the 'damned
to the support of their master.
They swarm over the stage like a
plague of bats and scorpions.
The careful electrician blacks-
out the angels and the earth
belongs to the Devil. Satan in
his crimson tights, slipping once
as he leaps up the steps, dances
in triumph at the very doors of
the cathedral.
It is time for Jehovah to speak.
And he does, tremendously,
through the clear ringing voice
of the Archangel Gabriel where
he stands resplendent, white-
winged and crowned with gold,
infinitely high up in some
embrasure in the masonry of the
tower. He announces the coming
of the Lord. The Devil flies
cringing to the red pit.
This is “Le Vray Mistere de la
Passion,” staged for a week or
more to audiences huddling
against the cold on tiers of
wooden benches facing the
cathedral. It begffls at 9 pan.
and runs till midnight.
It is a spectacle of quite
unbelievable magnificence, every-
thing done on the grand scale to
fit and fill the vastitude of the
setting. There are 100 Roman
cavalrymen (borrowed from thd
cavaliers of the Garde Repub-
licaine) clattering on their black
horses, with the spotlights on
their red tunics and golden
helmets, across the stage and
along the corridor under the tiers
of seats. People watch them
through the cracks as they pass
beneath. There are 1200 per-
formers —angels, devils, Jews and
Romans. There is music of the
15th century sounding through
the loudspeakers from the
cathedral organ. There are the
50 bells of the carillon of Rouen,
recorded. There are the massed
trumpeters of the Garde
Republicaine to announce the
entry of Pontius Pilate.
There are wonderful groupings
and masses of color —Pilate on
his throne surrounded by his
soldiers ; the Jewish high-priests ;
the spirits of the damned, chant-
ing some savage malediction that
sounds like a Maori haka, rising
out of hell and weaving and
waving their white arms in the
crimson incandescence; the
famous rose window, illuminated
from within the church, burning
like an enormous ruby, in which,
like transcendental dragonflies,
are embedded snowy angels ; the
swarming populace in their robes
of red and brown and green;
and Christ in white as the focus.
The immense twin towers are
cunningly floodlit from the
neighboring garden, so that the
light passes between the branches
of planes and chestnuts and
flickers continually with the
shadows of leaves across the grey
stone.
And it is extraordinarily mov-
ing, something like the old Greek
dramas must have been, when
then, as now, every event of the
great religious spectacle was
familiar to the audience and what
was lost of intimate realism —
because of the distance —was re-
supplied by the emotion in their
own minds.
There is the ride in triumph
on the ass into Jerusalem;
Leonardo’s Last Supper come to
life; the kiss for Judas; the
agony in the garden ; the arrest;
the scenes with Barabbas and
Pilate; a cock crying high out
of the air for Peter; Christ
stumbling under his cross, goaded
by the soldiers ; Judas hanging
himself on a convenient tree-
trunk ; the raising of the three
huge crosses; the soldiers
gambling for the clothes, thunder
and the earth darkening and the
Devil capering. Then at last the
tall central cross glowing in the
spotlight and suddenly blacked
out. Whatever Paris makes of
it, it is a superb drarria,
Douglas Stewart.
❖ ❖ ❖
Arrowheads in Shaftesbury
Avenue
The storming of the London
West End theatrical citadel by
Messrs. Farley, Thring, Burke
and Mcßeath (lately of the Mel-
bourne Arrow Theatre) from an
outpost near Kew Gardens was a
bold and worth-while venture.
The London stage can do with
new and vigorous blood.
Something, too, has been
achieved. Jack Hylton has
bought one of the new plays.
The double-bill (“Salome” and
“The Respectable Prostitute”)
has been bodily transferred to
the St. Martin’s Theatre. Frank
Thring has had rave notices
from Harold Hobson, who was
so impressed with his full-
blooded acting that he person-
ally introduced him to television
audiences before a performance
of the casket scene in “Salome.”
Otherwise reception was'only
moderate and advance-booking
poor, but the “passing trade,” for
a theatre that is in a back street,
was remarkable. Perhaps the
play-titles account for this. But
the hard fact is that the citadel
remains scarcely disturbed.
“Salome” is worth seeing
even though this company is not
uniformly excellent. Elizabeth
Tapley’s setting is opulent and
torrid. The mood of Frederick
Farley’s production is all * ripe,
searing decadence. Frank Thring
brings something to the West
End that it lacks. As Herod, his
mealy-mouthed lust and super-
abundant barnstorming are the
real transpontine stuff. The
Herodias of Vivienne Bennett is
a good contrast; her kind of sin
is keener, sourer and less impul-
sive, Agnes Bernelle acts well as
Salome. But the seven-veils
dance! She tries hard and nobly
only the more to embarrass.
This shortcoming, like much of
the flowery and repetitive writ-
ing, is hardly an actor’s respon-
sibility ; but it is the producer’s.
Sartre’s naive anti-Dixiecrat
propaganda seems an odd choice
as companion-piece. The two
plays are so disparate as to sug-
gest the competition of a drama
festival, not a new company
showing its paces. To find the
audience tittering at the ingenu-
ousness of the dialogue can
hardly be encouraging. The
important part of the Senator is
woefully miscast, the name-part
is played too conventionally and
the production is inadequate and
unsubtle.
Herbert Holman (London).
* ❖ ❖
Borovanskys
Having seen a sexy “Swan
Lake” one might almost claim
to have seen everything.
Kathleen Gorham danced it that
way on the opening night of the
current Borovansky programme
at Sydney Empire, making the
Queen of the Swans quite a
wicked little bird, full of passion
and animal grace. As it went, it
was interesting enough, btit a far
cry from the fragile, fluttering
pathos that Edna Busse used to
make of it when she was with
the Borovanskys, and a long way
from the beautiful, cold, classic
heartbreak that Peggy Sager
made of it when the present
commentator last saw her in the
role.
Miss Sager had her turn in this
current programme in
“Petrouchka,” and her Doll was,
once more, very nicely in the
classicaf tradition; a quaintly
engaging figure, and a mixture of
fear and naughtiness, all of it
danced so exactly that one saw
precisely what was wanted and
expected.
Paul Grinwis made quite a
moving business of the pathetic,
rag-doll emotions of Petrouchka,
and Vassilie Trunoff’s Blacka-
moor was animal enough, though
his dancing was a little short of
the ponderous exactitudes that
should go with the magnificent
black dolt. Paul Hammond’s
Charlatan and John Auld’s
Merchant were both excellent
creations.
A very cheerful performance
of “Graduation Ball” wound up
the proceedings, with some
pleasantly comical nonsense
from Paul Grinwis and John
Auld as the Headmistress and
the General, a sharp, flashing
performance from Raoul Celada,
and Pamela Proud making a very
pretty little dance of the role
which Riabouchinska made un-
forgettable in Sydney a few years
ago.
* ❖ ❖
A.B.C. Competition
In the Commonwealth finals of
the Concerto and Vocal Com-
petition the adjudicator, Walter
Susskind, was faced with hair's-
breadth decisions. While only
two showed the quality to merit
consideration in the four-girl
vocal section, all four pianists
gave performances of high merit.
The ninth competitor, clarinetist
Barbara Hoad (Vic.), through
commanding a nice tone, was
insufficiently strong a challenger
to the other executants.
The Westralian coloratura
soprano Patricia Wyatt, who
demonstrated a remarkable
flexibility and good control in
the mezza voce phases in the
“Bell Song” from Delibes’s
“Lakme”—though she was off
dead-centre in a few of the
stratospheric notes—was able to
hold off a very strong challenge
by Judith Staff (N.S.W.), who
used the lower register of her
rich contralto to fine effect in
“O Mio Fernando” from
Donizetti’s “La Favorita.”
Westralia’s second success
came from dynamic, well-judged
playing by Donald Thornton of
Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody on
a Theme by Paganini.” Vladimir
Pleshakov (N.S.W.) made a
strong bid with a mature per-
formance of the second and third
movements from Brahms’s
Concerto No. 1. Another solid
piece of work was done by Max
Shepherd (Vic.) in the opening
movement of Khachaturian's
rather craggy concerto. Rachel
Valler, who had won in the
N.S.W. finals, gave a refined
reading of part of Chopin’s First
Concerto.
Artbursts
Four Exhibitions
It is unwise, of course, to take
one’s wife around the town
when the shops are open, buf
such things are not always
avoidable and, in the course of
touring four Sydney art-shows
last week, force was almost
needed to prevent her from buy-
ing a glistening plywood dinghy
at Anthony Horderns’, a hat in
an arcade window, G. K.
Townshend’s “Landscape, Albion
Park” in the Australian Water-
color Institute’s exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, and from
trying to bid against the N.S.W.
National Gallery for Arthur
Murch’s “By the Sea” in the
Society of Artists’ exhibition at
the Education Department’s
Gallery.
The dinghy was templing and
the hat was dreadful, but, with
the paintings, she was, as in most
things, instinctively right. Of
about 420 paintings inspected
the two noted were undeniably
outstanding—the Townshend for
its balance and strength, and for
the calm certainty with which it
captures the poetry of silver light
and grey and brown shadows;
the Murch for its faultless com-
position in shape and color, for
its shimmering sunlight, for its
beautiful rendering of the form
and flesh of the two women and
the child on the beach, and,
finally and completely, for the
soft lyricism that pervades and
distinguishes the whole approach
to the painting.
The Murch, although the best,
by no means dominates the
Society of Artists’ exhibition;
the show is, in fact, an almost
overpowering shout of color and
industry, but, on closer inspec-
tion, the field thins down to a
comparatively narrow one —to
Dattilo Rubbo’s hot little
portrait, “Prying,” Douglas
Dundas’s pleasantly soft stone
and trees, Lloyd Rees’s massive,
cold “The Road to the Moun-
tain,” Carrington-Smith’s Whist-
lerish “Night Shadows,” hot
records of the city by George
Lawrence, Roland Wakelin and
John Santry, Kenneth Mac-
queen’s echoes of aboriginal
mystery, and Jean Bellette’s
sketch of “Country Girl.” \
The Watercolor Institute’s
show is also lively enough on
first impact, and similarly, after
the Townshend, narrows down
to a handful; Hal Missingham’s
quick capture of “Morning
Light, Coolah” —he brought it
back alive, as it were —Charles
Bush’s “French Cemetery,
Sauveterre de Cayenne,” John
Eldershaw’s “Hills at Tuena,”
Len Annois’s “The Pentland
Hills, Bacchus Marsh,” Rah
Fizelle’s delicate coloring in
three or four paintings, Frank
McNamara’s “Lighting -up
Time, North Sydney,” Yvonne
du Moulin’s graceful studies in
brown, and Arthur Nicol’s
fanciful “Boy Stealing Fruit”
and “Pink Palfrey,”
Sali Herman’s show at the
Macquarie Galleries is dominated
by “St. Paul’s,” a large but unim-
pressive explosion in paint, but
has its best moments in small
impressions of “Waterloo
Bridge,” “Suez Canal” and
“Paris Nocturne.”
Dudley Parker’s exhibition at
Anthony Horderns’ Gallery
consists of almost photographic
reports on landscapes, all painted
with considerable skill, but not,
it would appear, with very much
else except a liking for green
trees, blue skies and golden
poplars—one gathers, indeed,
that the artist feels sincerely that
he “shall never see a poem
lovely as a tree.”
P.D.
Talkies
New Sydney Releases
“They Who Dare” (Esquire):
Another fine semi-documentary
from an English studio, its theme
an epic trek by a handful of
British commandos and Greek
patriots across waterless moun-
tains to blow up planes on a
German-held Dodecanese island.
Tense, exciting and well-acted,
with Dirk Bogarde, Denholm
Elliott and Akim Tamiroff.
“The Wild One” (Capitol):
A motorbike-borne gang of
hoodlums with a surly, taciturn
leader (Marlon Brando) terrorises
a small US, town, which has a
weak pacifist cop. Strong
citizens eventually restore order
by taking things into their own
hands.
“The French Line” (Sydney
Mayfair); Feeble opus about a
rich girl who wants to remain
incognito aboard an Atlantic
liner. Even Jane Russell’s main
talent —photographed from every
possible angle or, rather, curve —
doesn’t help much.


Witchcraft
by Rosemary
MRS. MACE appeared in
the doorway. “Cabil-
laud a Vorange,” she
said. She took off her
hat, and, skewering her hat-pins
into it with two quick fierce
movements, she placed it on top
of the dresser.
Mrs. Mace’s hat was remark-
ably like Mrs. Mace —dark,
secretive, and, even in repose on
top of the dresser, defensive.
The bright knobs of her hat-
pins were like her bright, dart-
ing, colorless eyes. Perhaps it
was that when Mrs. Mace’s hat
left Mrs. Mace it took with it
something of her personality, for
without it she was certainly a
little less vigilant, less plotting.
Her hair, drawn sharply back,
seemed inadequate by compari-
son with the deep crown of the
hat —a mere skull-cap. -
Margaret Thatcher, sitting at
the kitchen-table, looked up
from the beans inquiringly. “All
right?” sh,e asked. A certain
economy manifested itself in the
progress of their conversations
on Wednesdays. It had gone
the same way so often that they
could skip intermediary stages
and yet understand each other
very well.
“Ever so nice,” said Mrs.
Mace. “Cod, you know, with a
bouquet garni and buttered
paper. Our lady’s timer went
wrong, though, so it stayed in
the oven a bit too long. Very
put out, she was. But I will say
it looked pretty. All garnished
with parsley and that.”
“Who won?” asked Margaret,
with one of their conversational
leaps.
“Not a lady that I know,”
answered Mrs. Mace. “First
time there, I should say. She
chose the marshmallow short-
cake, though I can’t say I would
have with that cod looking so
pretty.”
Meanwhile she had collected
all the silver from the drawers,
spread out newspaper, produced
the cleaning-fluid and begun to
apply it with a soft rag. Mar-
garet could see that there was
egg between the prongs of some
of the forks, and she sighed. It
was something that Mrs, Mace’s
cooking-lady would never, she
felt, approve.
Beside her Mrs. Mace re-
capitulated eagerly, step by step,
the cabillaud d Vorange. Mar-
garet knew that no response be-
yond an occasional nod would
be required of her for some
time. With her chin on her hand
and her elbow resting in the
middle of the neglected beans
she looked vaguely round the
kitchen.
Mrs, Mace’s lady would never
approve of it, either. Tt was a
large, high-ceilinged room as
kitchens used to be at the time
the house was built. The table,
also large, stood fair and square
in the middle. Some statistician,
Margaret felt, would surely de-
light to estimate the number of
miles she walked each year from
stove to sink, from sink to
table. At the end of the room
where a door led into the din-
ing-room there was a rather
come-down-in-the-world leather
couch with a bookshelf beside it.
On two of the three deep
stone window-sills there were
numerous little jars containing
tadpoles and some saucers in
which reposed on blotting-paper
pale wheat-grains timidly shoot-
ing. These belonged to Jane and
Henry. There was an old wooden
box for the dog, who liked to
sleep in the lingering warmth
of the room in winter ; for the
stove, fractious and wayward,
was a fuel one, which somehow
they had never replaced. There
was also a low, long cupboard
on which stood vases, secateurs
and flower-baskets. Mrs. Mace
would have tidied 'mem all
away.
Her kitchen, no, not
hers, but the kitchen
in the auditorium, was
clinical, aseptic. Mar-
garet could visualise it
very well from Mrs.
Mace’s enthusiastic
descriptions. A gleam-
ing, stainless-steel sink,
a gleaming stove with
an oven-door waist-high to obvi-
ate stooping, hot and cold water,
blameless tea-towels, hand-
towels on which the lady dried
her hands after holding them
under the polished taps before
every step in the demonstration,
a shining hospital floor, imple-
ments as antiseptic as medical
instruments.
Certainly no egg between the
prongs of the forks.
Tl/TRS. Mace was a radio-fan;
but. not by any means an
undiscriminating one. She tuned
always to one station. She be-
longed to its Merry Comrades
Club, she knitted clothes for its
Charity Group and made and
stuffed felt toys for its Times’
Corner.
She sent in the date of her
birthday, and ever year she had
the joy of tearing herself wished
many, many happy returns by a
jovial radio uncle, who hoped
she was well, also Siddy, Fred
and Elsie, and knew that Mrs.
Mace was one of our very, very
good friends and a willing
worker for the Charity Group.
Age and domestic responsi-
bilities prevented Mrs. Mace
from belonging to 5PK’s tennis
club. Frustrated in this, she
turned all her attention to
the SPK cooking class. Every
Tuesday, having prepared
afternoon-tea for Siddy and
Elsie, who came over nearly
every afternoon, and “got
ahead,” as she called it,
with the dinner, she emerged
from her dark, semi-detached
little hovel and made one of her
head-downward scuttles into
town to the radio-auditorium.
Here she was instructed in the
mysteries of Imaginative Cook-
ing. Here she was handed a
sheet of recipes with a lucky
number on it. Here, having ob-
served the rites, chatted to her
neighbors, regulars like herself,
and gazed at the completed
dishes which, marvellously
garnished with parsley, capsicum
and little red onions—“one in
the baked fish’s eye-socket, if
you please! ” —were rolled in on
a traymobile crowned with a
vase of flowers, for the edifica-
tion of the initiated—having
done all this, Mrs. Mace
gripped the arms of her softly
padded chair and waited, breath-
less, for the lucky number to be
drawn. It had never been Mrs.
Mace’s; yet, still hopeful, she
longed for that proud moment
when she would ascend the dais,
choose her fancy from the
assembled dishes and bear it
away triumphant in a cardboard
box among the plaudits of her
companions.
That was the climax, the high
peak of the week for Mrs. Mace,
to which she looked back with
still - unabated excitement on
Wednesdays, and with nostalgia
on Thursdays. On Fridays she
Still clung to the memory of it
all. And on Saturday in her
own little broom-cupboard of a
kitchen she felt she could begin
to look forward to the next
Tuesday. On Wednesday and
Friday afternoons she went to
the Thatchers’.
ly/TEANWHILE, for Siddy, her
son, she cooked sausages-
and-eggs for breakfast and
chops-and-chips for dinner. And
for the days when Elsie, Fred
Mace’s sister, came she pre-
pared large afternoon - teas of
seed-cake and marble-cake. She
had divulged this when Margaret
asked one Wednesday, as they
companionably repapered the
cupboards, if she ever experi-
mented with the recipes herself.
Mrs: Mace hated to admit that
she didn’t, and she thrust her
head into the darkness of the
jam-cupboard. “It’s like this,
Mrs. Thatcher,” came her voice
from the gloom, “with Fred
away Siddy goes on just as if he
was at home, and eats just what
his dad does. ‘Nothing fancy
for me. Mum,’ he says. ‘Chops
and sausages and none of your
cook-book stuff.’ And his
auntie’s the same.” She emerged
from the recesses looking more
witchlike than ever with her
bright, snapping eyes, her dark,
thin hair, sharp nose and
inquisitive chin.
The children called her a
witch. Margaret repeatedly re-
buked Jane and Henry, but she
knew that to all the children at
their preparatory school Mrs.
Mace’s dark little box of a
house was “the witch’s house.”
Sometimes the children would
run past it hurriedly coming
home late on a winter’s after-
noon, frightening and teasing
each other, provoking delicious
thrills and horrors.
Margaret had to pass the
house when she went out to do
her shopping. She, too, had the
horrors, but of a different kind.
Every day Siddy sat on the
narrow, tiled veranda, looking
across the narrow garden-bed
and over the low fence, fixing
his stare on the passer-by.
Siddy, except for the vacant
lethargy of his expression, might
well have been a witch’s
familiar. His large, simple face
was remarkably catlike in fea-
ture, if not in expression. His
eyes were round, his mouth
small and pursed, and his dark
hair grew away from his fore-
head in two tufts, like ears.
Poor Siddy, he must, Margaret
thought, be at least twenty, but
he had never worked ; seemed,
indeed, incapable of exertion.
He sat on the veranda
all day, his arms hang-
ing limply from his
shirt-sleeves.
Often Elsie was there,
too, squat, enormous,
with an old cane chair
creaking beneath her
weight. Their gaze was
concentrated, almost
palpable. Margaret felt that it
manifested itself in a thick,
viscous web through which she
had to force herself even when
she crossed to the opposite pave-
ment.
John, her husband, tried to dis-
pel her dismay by laughing at
her. But, then, he travelled to
the station by car every morn-
ing, and, picking it up in the
evening again, drove home. “If
you could bring yourself to say
good-morning to them, or to
make spme remark once or twice
you’d probably feel better about
them,” he said. But Margaret
couldn’t. And she had never
once seen Mrs. Mace in the
front of the house. She sup-
posed that she spent her days in
the dark little broom-cupboard
kitchen, slaving there for Siddy,
in whom she found no fault.
Fred, who was “away,” Margaret
had never seen.
TT was unfortunate that Mar-
-*■ garet became ill just the very
week John went away. He was
an architect, and was sometimes
called to consultations on work
which his firm was handling in
the country.
Margaret never minded being
alone with the children, even
though the house was isolated
and surrounded by three acres
of wild and bushy garden. They
lived far enough up Sydney’s
North Shore Line for such space
to be financially within their
reach, and both Margaret and
John liked the sense of freedom
that the comparative loneliness
of the house gave them. Be-
sides, they wanted the children
to run a little wild as they
grew up.
Margaret waved John good-
bye cheerfully enough on Thurs-
day morning, and it was not till
the evening that she began to
feel appallingly tired. She
dragged herself wearily about
the kitchen as she prepared the
evening meal for. the children,
and when they were safely in
bed she shut up the house and
fell into bed herself, dizzy and
feverish. In the morning she
managed to get some breakfast
for them, and, having diag-
nosed ’flu, returned immediately
to bed.
At two o’clock Margaret heard
Mrs. Mace making her usual
punctual appearance in the
kitchen, and presently come into
the hall and call up the stairs.
Margaret replied weakly and
Mrs. Mace hastened up.
“ ’Flu,” she said, making a
commendably rapid and accurate
survey of the situation from the
bedroom door. “Oh, it’s going
all about. Now, you just lie
there and I’ll fetch something for
you, and I’ll think out a plan.”
She darted away and returned
half an hour later with a tray-
soup that was delicate, reviving,
delicious, * thin bread-and-butter
and some carefully prepared
fruit. Margaret viewed it with
the unquestioning astonishment
of the feverish, and ate it all.
But she knew she was in for a
bad bout.
“I’ve been thinking,” said
Mrs. Mace, “and this is what
I’ll do. My Siddy can go over
to Elsie’s to stay and I’ll pack a
port and come down here. I
can look after the kiddies and
get your meals till you’re on your
feet again.”
Margaret assented gratefully.
“You’re a good fairy, Mrs.
Mace,” she said, tritely, Mrs.
Mace jumped up briskly and
darted to the door. Margaret
had a glimpse of that sharp nose,
that out-thrust chin, that narrow
mouth. “A good fairy,” she
thought, “with a witch’s face,”
and, falling asleep, she imagined
Mrs. Mace in tinsel and gauze,
with a star on the top of a
wand.
The weekend passed in a de-
lightful, dozy dream for her.
The children tiptoed into her
room and out again, and through
her windows she sometimes
heard them calling out shrilly
in the garden. “I’m going to
fly on my broomstick. Watch
me!” and “Be quiet, or I’ll
turn you into a toad.” Every
three or four hours Mrs. Mace
appeared with a tray delicately
spread with incredible, imagina-
tive, ravishing dishes: broths,
omelettes, mousses, souffles of
unbelievable airiness.
“How do you manage it, Mrs.
Mace? ” Margaret asked.
“You’re working magic with
that old stove of ours.”
Mrs. Mace shook her head,
disclaiming all supernatural
powers. “We had invalid-cookery
from our lady one time,” she
said, “and 1 brought all my
recipes down here with me.”
At night she retired to the
spare room, and, Margaret
imagined, since her hands were
not often idle, knitted or stuffed
toys. During the day Margaret
sometimes heard from far-off on
the wireless in the living-room
downstairs the craft-ladies, the
jovial uncle and the loud com-
mercial cries of 5PK’s bright
young announcers.
BY Monday afternoon she was
well enough to dress and go
downstairs. Mrs. Mace assessed,
and then sanctioned, her re-
covery. “Siddy’s coming back
tomorrow,” she said, “so I’ll go
home in the morning and get
ahead for him, and then I’ll go
to my cookery. I’ll call back
here after dinner about eigh:
to make sure you’re all right,
and I’ll take my things home
then if you are.”
“Mrs. Mace, you’ve been
terribly good,” said Margaret.
“I really don’t know what I
would have done without you.
We must come to some arrange-
ment financially so that I can
repay your kindness a little.”
The stilted, awkward words
came out all wrong. The last
thing she wanted to do was to
offend Mrs. Mace, and she was
afraid that that was just what
she had done.
But Mrs. Mace, shaking her
head vehemently, refusing any
remuneration, was exquisitely
tactful in her reply. “I was glad
to do it for you, Mrs. Thatcher.
A nice change it was for me,
and being able to try out my
DESERTED BANDSTAND, KINGSTON BEACH
Turning from the sketched pines
and the tedious esplanade
I always find this frame,
this loud rotunda’s dancing red:
a bandstand empty twenty years;
an object deserted—
but not those brazen afternoons
a girl and a fumbling boy
discovered the wandering dunes.
Gone the band, the uniform;
stays the silent rusting frame. •
Gone the kiss—and yet
only the moment’s different.
They heard the sharp and dazzled
cry of a gull
above their Sunday band,
the flat and curious light.
She led his seeking hand.
And they are all here:
the sea in a shell,
an echo’s silence in the mind:
each making the other real.
This round and failing red,
the promised girl and her lover . . .
No image can ever be deserted.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


Here are the
INVESTMENT
> :
of the
OL ■
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
1. Commonwealth
Bonds or Inscribed
Stock bearing
interest at
per annum, issued at
par and maturing on
October 15, 1967, or
2. Commonwealth
Bonds or Inscribed
Stock bearing
interest at
per annum, issued at
£9B/10/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15,
1957.
3%
44%
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/- in each £1
of interest is allowed for the period during which
no Income Tax is levied under the law of a State.
This rebate increases the effective interest yield
(particularly in the case of those subject to the
higher rates of Income Tax).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the longer-term
issue is £lO of Bonds or £lOO of Inscribed Stock.
Those who already own £lOO of Inscribed Stock
may increase their holdings by multiples of £lO.
For the short-term issue the minimum subscription
is £l,OOO, with higher amounts in multiples of
£l,OOO, of Bonds or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted, with the balance
in either one or three amounts by December 1,1954.
BANKS. SAVINGS BANKS. MONEY ORDER
POST OFFICES OR STOCKBROKERS will receive
applications for cash subscriptions. You have
only to fill in one simple form and lodge a
cheque or cash.
A n assured income
You can be absolutely ««>•” be' to you each
££ y’rrrXe fixed and unchanging rate.
Ahsnlute security
from which all possibility
If you are seeking an mvcs lth Loan
„f risk is temoved Com Government
now open provides it. Loan subscribers that
unequivocally guarantees ; n (ull „ n the day
tlr due lor repayment.
i A n income tax rebate
to an Income Tax Reba wh ich goes into effect after
rebate is a straight-out e has been arrived at. Thus,
the amount of tax Bonds is worth just
3 tr h t as appreciably higher rates of
“tern* on other types of investments.
Australian development
Whß, you I■" . but’ you “So b.”
to y P , At , a blc our Governments
The money raised “ *" t^ o “ o^amm es which provide com-
*° CO t n,l services and national developmental project,
munity services housing , mo re hospitals,
Increased electric power S “PJ*“; . bet . e r , rans port facilities,
more schools, greater •» ° { **
- Help to 'produce.
. . I fie ii of investment, feature by feature,
K-SS-? ~ M Commonwealth Loan Australia.
most rewarding investment.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury
205L5.147
cookery, too. A real treat, that
was.”
On Tuesday morning she
went off early. Margaret, walk-
i - slowly up to the shops at
noon, saw Siddy once again
sitting on the veranda. She tried
to nod to him, but not by the
flicker of an eyelid did he ack-
nowledge her. She did not even
try on the way back. After
lunch, tired by the walk, she lay
down for a while and drifted off
to sleep. At four she was
awakened by a loud banging on
the kitchen-door. Hastily tidy-
ing herself, she went down-
stairs. She opened the door and
there was—not Siddy but a
malevolent version of Siddy,
belligerent, truculent.
“I want to know what’s going
on here,” the man said without
preamble of introduction,
“Here’s my wife been down
here, my son says, looking after
people that ought to know how
to look after themselves, and
not a farthing for it, my son says,
All that extra work she done,
Anyway, I’ve come to see that
she comes home and stays home,
Just tell her to pack her grip
and come with me. I haven’t
much time to waste.”
Margaret was furious, but still
too weak to do justice to her
anger. Her reply came out
feebly. “Mrs. Mace isn’t here,”
she said. “She’s gone into town
for her usual Tuesday appoint-
ment, and I understood her to
say that she would call here
after dinner tonight for a few
minutes. If Mrs. Mace will
agree we shall most certainly
make some financial return for
her very great kindness when my
husband comes home. I expect
him tomorrow.”
He slouched off, muttering
explosively, leaving Margaret
trembling with anger in the
doorway.
*
T'HE evening was cold, with
storm-clouds about and a
threat of rain. After the
children had gone to bed
Margaret sat in the kitchen,
which was still warm from the
afternoon sun and the heat of
the stove. The dog sat on her
feet and she wrote letters com-
fprtably.
At half-past nine she had
given up hope of Mrs. Mace,
and at ten-o’clock she was re-
gretfully putting away untouched
the supper she had prepared and
was about to go to bed when
she heard the familiar quick
steps coming round the side of
the house. Some rain had
fallen; but that, thought Mar-
giret, would hardly account for
the bedraggled dejection so
foreign to, but so clearly sit-
ting on, Mrs. Mace.
“I got the lucky number to-
day, Mrs. Thatcher,” she said
with a lassitude that amazed
Margaret.
“But, Mrs. Mace, how lovely!
Oh, I am pleased. What did you
choose?”
“It was crumbed-veal picot
with mushrooms,” answered
Mrs. Mace. “The dinner. Just
needed hotting up. The lady
garnished it with little curls of
celery. All the ladies were so
pleased, I brought it home in a
cardboard-box.”
“Well, that really is some-
thing,” said Margaret. “I ex-
pect it tasted wonderful, didn’t
it?”
“I don’t know,” said Mrs.
Mace tonelessly. “Fred’s home,
and he doesn’t care for the fancy
things much. Out it all went
into the garbage. Well, I’d better
just -go upstairs, Mrs. Thatcher,
and put my things in my port.”
She walked dejectedly through
to the hall and up the stairs, and
Margaret stood in the hall
watching her, stricken.
“Can I make you some tea,
Mrs. Mace?” she called out. “I
had some all ready.”
“No, thanks ever so,” said
Mrs. Mace; and presently she
reappeared at the top of the
stairs, snapping the lid of her
suitcase shut.
“Well, then, do let me walk
home with you. The children
will be quite all right. I
wouldn’t like you to go home
alone a bit.”
“No, thank you, Mrs.
Thatcher. I just think it’s better
if I go by myself. So I’ll see
you tomorrow just the same.”
“Yes, just the same,” said
Margaret. But she could not
utter the consoling words she
wanted to say, noticing as Mrs.
Mace went through the kitchen-
door that even her hat looked
limp and weary, as though the
battle had all gone out of it.
COON after Margaret had
turned her light out the
storm began. A flash of light-
ning showed the curtains blowing
into the room and rain falling
heavily outside. Reluctantly
she got up, put on her dresSing-
gown and went into the
children’s room to shut the win-
dows there. Crossing the land-
ing, she remembered the spare
room where Mrs. Mace had
slept. She opened the door and
fumbled for the light-switch,
But before she found it another
flash of lightning lit up the
disarranged bedcover, the hair-
brush left behind on the dressing-
table and on the table by the
bedside a little image, a catlike
figure, with a brutish, heavy
but catlike face, with clumsy
paws and dark ears like hair,
Siddy? No. But Fred? . . .
And two hatpins like nails
skewered into that little image
of a man.
The room was dark again,
Margaret’s fingers found the
switch. Witchcraft? Some
horrible rite practised in dark-
ness on the image of the hated
one? No. One of Mrs. Mace’s
felt toys for the Times’ Corner,
But all the same, Margaret
pulled out those evil hat-pins
before she closed the window.
and shivered as she went back
to bed, telling herself that, after
all, it was a very cold night.


/!
m
V-
■ i it
IG
ight UP one of these superb English cigarettes of
pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smooth-
ness of that pure Virginia tobacco —and you will
have formed a lasting preference for Rothmans
De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in
the most distinguished homes 3/7 for 20
and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted,
as England’s luxury cigarette.
VIRGINIA
England’s
LUXURY CIGARETTE
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
D
TILLEY . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because U is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic—only pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one ?
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
("THE QUEEN")
While import re-
strictions remain
yon may have
difficulty in ob-
taining: TILLEY
products.
The Munister
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
LIKE an apparition, Anthony
Wyman came walking
towards me out of the old
times of Lingerie© the
other day.
His long misty hair curled
round his ears and his clerical
collar was high, and clean in
contrast to the sootiness of his
long and, flapping navy-blue coat
with the thin stripe in it. His
waistcoat was brown, his pepper-
and-salt trousers listless and dark,
brighter only at the knees, and
he carried a battered port-
manteau which nudged his side
every time he veered or stumbled
in his step. His jaws revolved
as if he were chewing gum or
the Apostles’ Creed; and his
brown, grooved, hatless head,
gaunt and big above his diminu-
tive body and lit with the crazed
fire of deep-set eyes, was held
vacant but ponderous with pride
in the cool Sydney air that lifted
and fell like an expansive press
over Hyde Park.
He drifted out of Macquarie-
street and patiently waited till a
car went by, then crossed King-
street to the tram-encircled
Queen Victoria statue, halted
there beneath the regal bronze,
proceeded, stopped again with a
jerk half-way across St. James-
road —the port protested with a
pendulum movement —as a line
of taxis idled past the entrance
to St. James station, and then
made a beeline as best he could
for. the refuge of the footpath.
He trod along the path between
the lawns, past where I sat with a
pipe and the evening paper,
finally to disappear somewhere
in the homebound crowds of
Elizabeth-street.
He made me so nostalgic and
uneasy that I placed the paper
on the seat beside me and began
to attack the rhythmic rise and
fall of the cool autumn air with
burning puffs from the stem of
my pipe. The pigeons about my
feet sensed the change and sought
the better company of their
fellows who, with a bob of
sparrows in a bed of young
plants, were enjoying a flutter
and a free shower under the light,
sweeping spray of a turning hose,
A NTHONY WYMAN, L.Th.,
the man our little decadent
church in Sinnett-street got when
the sanctimonious Mr. Barnam
“answered the call” to another
field of labor —it was really a
promotion to a suburban church
in Brisbane.
Straight from theological
college and fresh in his Greek
and Hebrew and his Exegesis,
Anthony was “collar-proud,” but
excusably so, and the trustees
bore with him. Though he was
minimised by the height of the
pulpit, his voice nevertheless was
thick and strong and his sermons,
intoned after the fashion of all
our clergy, were commanding,
while his prayers were kept suit-
ably parenthetical, which, in
those days, was considered a
nicety—we disliked prayers being
lengthy, specimens too much of
oratory with insufficient remem-
brance of church members lately
passed on to “the fragrance of
the upper rose garden” (Barnaul's
idyllic and ideal way of putting
it) or of ourselves, complacent as
we were.
He was a master at saying
grace at church feasts—how we
ate in those days! Shall I ever
forget Sam Hobbin’s tender,
dripping turkeys, or Mrs.
Roswith’s amber - dazzling,
elusively delicious marmalade
jam, sweet like St. Agnes, keen
like chablis! —and he was manly
with the men, diplomatic with
the women, paternal with the
Sunday-school, wise and pleasant
with the Bible-classes.
With his youth and earnest-
ness, he converted the Watkins
Family Memorial bell rusting
in its red, wooden belfry from a
ducky toneless thing into an
instrument that sang a vigorous
and chime-like summons over
the whole neighborhood, and all
those christened in our, church
knew they had just time enough
to make the morning service. He
pruned the untidy camphor-laurel
trees whose roots undermined
and distorted the churchyard
paling-fence and, enlisting the
help of the young men in the
Band of Hope, put the palings
straight again.
He mowed the parsonage
lawns and kept them mowed,
and chipped the weeds and pro-
tuberant bumps from the tennis-
court. He mended the faulty
stops in the organ, revitalised
with fresh paint the words above
the pulpit which adjured the con-
gregation each Sunday to mind
its Creator, christened in, his
initial three weeks with us a
record number of “circuit”
babies, and married Jim Buntley
of the wealthy Edmund Buntleys
to little Myrtle Lowes, daughter
of old Riff Lowes who kept the
tiny shoeshop near the railway,
a democratic marriage upon
which we all looked with
undisguised favor.
We were exceptionally pleased
with him in those first months..
His dress was as scrupulous as
his sermons, which were regu-
lated so as not to keep the con-
gregation too long from its
Sunday dinner—none of us
could bear being preached at on
an empty stomach—and his wife
was charming. She never ruffled
the ladies committee, and always
made sponge-cakes for the fetes
and tiers of jams for the exhibit
we proudly displayed along the
aisles and round the walls and
beneath the pulpit on Thanks-
giving Days,
She was only a child, but she
won respect for her masterly
agreeability and capacity for
work. She was pretty, too, in a
fragile way. Usually, exclusive
good-looks in a female member
were either frowned upon or
regarded with suspicion in our
community, but because of the
respect she gained especially for
her ability to work —a quality
not altogether uncommon among
the other women of the church
with whom, therefore, she shared
it—she found her “harmless” (as
the ladies established it) form of
attractiveness of no extreme
social disadvantage, as Rosie
Stern had done.
Rosie, whom the ladies could
never forgive for the volupl-
- by which she stood out
pronouncedly as the one woman
of the congregation with
“appeal,” an attribute she was
powerless to share with anybody
else, became pregnant, and,
without disclosing the name of
the young man, who did not offer'
to come forward, was forced
amid indignation to leave the
church. Don Larkin was the
natural suspect, but his name,
though it leapt to mind, never-
theless remained deferentially
unmentioned.
DON was the “gallant” of the
church, an elevation to
which he had been raised by
virtue of a manner, voice, laugh, ;
grace and energy accounted
unique among us. With these
qualifications, reinforced by the
fact of his being the scion of an
influential church family, he
captivated every female member
of the congregation, enjoying his
authority openly, with wit, and
with impunity. It seemed to us a
mark of our gentility that, while
favoring Christian democracy
and equality such as Myrtle
Lowes’s wedding to Jim Buntley
evinced, we could subscribe
indulgently to the irreproach-
ability of the well-to-do.
Whatever their anxiety or
anger, the husbands among us
who considered they held more
than legal appropriation rights
to the ladies whom Don beguiled,
dared never to take him seriously
for fear of causing disturbances
more unbecoming than they
judged Don’s philanderings to be.
In view of Don’s lightheartedness
and family, they inevitably would
have emerged from any disorder
the apparent instigators of it and,
into the bargain, fools. But,
ignoring precedent, Anthony
Wyman took matters seriously,
as he felt he had every need to,
from the moment he found Don
kissing Mrs. Wyman behind the
wild fig-tree in Evans Park dur-
ing the church picnic—a climax
we, who had noticed the associa-
tion growing, had anticipated
long before Anthony made his
discovery.
The minister’s little wife in her
childlike way took Don as
seriously as her husband did, and
found in him exciting charac-
teristics which Anthony’s in-
flexible, though muscular, code
of living had barred from her
knowledge. The gallant with the
compelling eyes and debonair
voice made her feel, despite her
conscience, , her devotion to
Anthony, and her duty to his
congregation, more the woman.
She fell in love, hopelessly yet
delicately; inarticulate and
white-faced in her place among
the choir, staring away from
Don who sat each Sunday in his
family’s pew simulating merely
a listener’s interest in the small
figure that held such adult and
tragic consciousness of its illicit
desire in the ingenuous way it
ignored him.
Don probably meant no more
than to endear himself to Ella
Wyman. This would have been
a notable restraint, and certainly
less than he had achieved with
other gentlewomen of the con-
gregation whose poses and prides
prompted him to attempt at least
the appearances of intriguing
* liaisons without causing too
much agitation. But his manner,
difficult to regulate, was of the
kind to create in a person like
Ella not endearment, or fascina-
tion, but the simmerings of a
feeling we at Sinnett-street should
have hesitated to define as
passion because we considered
the emotion an unworthy one.
Don fell down badly in
measuring Ella Wyman’s nature
—if he tried to measure it at all
at the start —perhaps too readily
and shallowly regarding her as
of much the same manageable
temperament as other church
ladies whom he had conquered
with his easy chivalry. The fact
that she was the minister’s wife
did constrain him to play his
hand differently at the begin-
ning ; but his predatory inclina-
tions could never enable him to
resist the use of his most accom-
plished methods in going after
a pretty face. And Ella’s face
was pretty.
He found out too late that it
was, first , and ‘foremost, the
brand-new mirror of an inexperi-
enced heart whose sensitivity and
capacity to reflect life’s images
the best man should have been


ê
Born 1820—
still going strong •
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY.
iv.un.ti
ROOT-ZONE
MOISTURE
CONTROL
THE MOST
IMPORTANT
SINGLE FACTOR
IN
AGRICULTURE
ë
Nothing affecting crop yield and quality
is as important as irrigation. Revolu-
tionary improvements in irrigation equip-
ment have been primarily concerned with
attaining more economical delivery on the
surface of the ground and do little to solve the
most vital problem control of underground
moisture in the Root Zone. This is what deter-
mines yield and profits for the grower. Before
this moisture can be controlled it must be measured.
LirroMeterl
■ TRADE MARK ■■■
MOISTURE INDICATOR
ANSWERS THIS PROBLEM
The Irrometer registers on an easy to read gauge the amount
of water actually available at the roots and under field conditions
is accurate to within 3%. It tells exactly what irrigation is
needed, when irrigation can safely be discontinued and assures
maximum benefit with minimum water usage.
FOR ROOT AND TREE CROPS
Distributors for N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
P.O. Box 509 10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney Phone: BU 5095
Branches: Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay; and at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l
careful how he confronted with
his friendship or his love. This
was an insight that Anthony,
engaged in the full-time occupa-
tion of making a success of his
calling, had never acquired, else
he might have endeavored to set
in - Ella’s countenance before
then, by a conscientious
husband’s means, some outline of
what Don as a lover could not
hope to do through the per-
suasion merely of his presence in
a crowd.
For after the picnic event Don
never sought Ella alone again.
And so Ella’s face began instead
to reflect day by day the more
noticeable opposite of unsatisfied
physical and heart’s desire. It
was a pain as pernicious to her
as Anthony’s pain was to him
when he found out she did not
love him.
'THE shock of the scene in the
park must have sent pre-
occupations that cluttered his
mind —such as next Sunday’s
sermon, the inordinate height of
the pulpit, and the tennis “social”
—scattering helter-skelter from it,
so that it is not difficult to picture
him, despite its angering finality,
building up as methodically as he
would make a sermon, a clear
argument on the matter as he
turned away unnoticed an
argument which he knew could
not have been gainsaid . , .
Ella did not seem to object to
Larkin’s kissing her. If,
previously, she had made objec-
tions, she had stopped making
them now ; and, while she
objected, apparently had
refrained from drawing what
would have been the speculative
notice of the other church-folk
in the park. This could have
indicated on her part a discretion
stronger than her physique, but
indicated instead, since she was
so completely immersed in
Larkin’s arms, what really
looked like a presence of mind
as great as her response . ..
And Ella, behind the fig-tree,
shaken at the sensations loosed
in her by her physical encounter
with Don, in silence, fright and
desperate animation, gave her
peace of mind away. It had been
slipping from her for months
past as Don paid a court that was
decidedly ill-considered by every
woman in the congregation who
witnessed its effect on him. For
there was no doubt in anyone’s
mind except his own that he was
falling in love with Ella.
The tension had grown in his
face as at first laughingly, but
later with a developing sense of'
insecurity, he had impressed his
charm on the fragile face. The
revelation came the day when
he was able to see starkly the
simplicity, force and true mean-
ing of Ella’s restless attraction to
him, already beyond her will to
suppress, and, after his cognis-
ance of it, beyond his, since the
confession he saw- in her face he
knew then to be his also. The
confirmation was the moment
behind the wild fig-tree.
It was somewhere about this
time in the affair that we stopped
treating Ella with respect, and
could no longer be pleased with
Anthony. Ella in particular
was forthrightly censored by the
jealous ladies for her unpre-
tentious but overwhelming
victory over Don, who previously
had been the property of them
all. Don’s own individuality, but
for his social standing, also
might have been questioned, for
its defeat. As it was, he no
longer seemed so desirable; and
he himself showed discernibly
that he was no longer free and
confident and happy—which, the
moralist might assert, was his
penalty.
There were a lot of moralists
among us. As an astute “I-tofd-
you-so” community we expected
just such an incident as the one
that abruptly gave Anthony, so
recently oblivious to the conflicts
taking place in his wife’s mind,
his clear statement of an “affair,”
but that in no way detracted
from its dark excitement when it
did come. It soon brought with
it into Anthony’s life the
premonitions of a loneliness that,
like a disease at work, was to
affect his mind and waste his
body until, in the end, he had,
virtually, only his shadow to lean
on. In the months that followed
we accompanied and aided this
mental and physical deterioration
with murmurs of moral
incredulity, injured propriety
and pity.
V*7E never really knew what
ensued between Anthony
and Ella after the park episode,
or what subsequently passed
between Ella and Don after
Anthony’s interview with Don;
but about the latter-mentioned
exchange we did get to know,
through the offices of Mrs.
Grieves, the housekeeper at the
parsonage, who carried to all she
met an imaginative description of
what she heard between the two
when Don, at Anthony’s request,
called to see him on one of
Ella’s shopping afternoons. Mrs.
Grieves, who had been a source
of information about parsonage-
happenings for no fewer than
four ministers’ terms, could not
have been dismissed by Anthony
for this treachery even had he
wished it. She was sagaciously
employed by the church trustees.
Her situation was, therefore, safe
and somewhat of a sinecure.
Anthony had been with us
almost a year when his private
life, upon which the success of
his public life so conspicuously
depended, fell thus suddenly to
pieces. It is just possible that he
could have obtained an
immediate transfer to another
church somewhere in the back-
blocks. There, with Don out of
Ella’s sight, and the reason for
his short term at Sinnett-street
(the full term was three years)
well enough handled and
tendered without committal or
cause for active suspicion to
those who asked —and there
would be many, for although a
sufficiently flavored history of an
arriving-minister’s past activities
was invariably ready awaiting
him at the church where he was
to begin fashioning fresh ones,
there were always church
members who liked to delve of
their own accord —he could start
reconstructing his career with
perhaps more care to the
domestic side of it.
But-whether he did not feel
quite capable of the (for him)
strenuous deception involved in
keeping a new congregation “off
scent,” or whether he did not
relish the extra humiliation to be
reckoned with by an early with-
drawal from Sinnett-street and
the council’s inquisition,
tenacious and devastating in its
delicacy, necessary to actuate the
withdrawal, or whether he de-
cided to remain to keep face or
to try to resolve the tangle and
regain for Ella and himself some
vestige of the goodwill lost, I
still do not know, but remain he
did.
He maintained his pulpit, and
his purpose in remaining, which-
ever it was, invested him, while
the loneliness and shock which
generated it divested him of all
else, with the great pride that
stayed, and was still defiantly
prominent as he caught at the
exposed ends of my memory in
Hyde Park and walked on
unconsciously pulling from the
recesses of my mind long
resonant threads that wove
themselves into a tapestry of the
past so close and real that I felt
((Continued on next page)


reasons why the
VAUXHALL
10 cwt. COUPE-UTILITIES are winning
such enthusiastic praise everywhere
m.
x
' S fcy>: P WVVERN
, o o.h.v.
8 6«».V0X
City and Country, farmer and businessman . , . people everywhere
are enthusiastically acclaiming the two Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe-
Utilities. And no wonder ... see what Vauxhall offers you . . ■
15.63 h.p. WYVERN
Outstanding fuel
economy allied with
truly surprising per-
formance. Particularly
flexible acceleration to
deal with city traffic—
to 'cruise smoothly for
long periods.
23.44 h.p. VELOX
Extra power, liveliness
and flashing top gear
performance —— effort-
less cruising (50-55
m.p.h.) with a new
standard of petrol
economy.
Ask about the G.M.A.C.
Confidential Hire Pur-
chase Plan. Ask, too,
about the “built-for-
Vauxhall” “Air-Chief”
Car Radio.
and
Vauxhall dependable
nation - wide service.
You can be sure of
dependable service and
availability of genuine
spare parts.
Two ‘‘square” engines. Brilliantly
Vauxhall designed and engineered.
Features include longer cylinder bore
life, longer crank shaft life, improved
breathing . . . all to give you . . .
More power . . . greater economy . . .
longer life ! These “square" engines
have reduced piston travel and speeds
. . . to give you the maximum low
reyving power from, every ounce of
petrol . . . and longer engine life.
10 cwt. Payload Capacity. See that
generous payload area. It’s been
designed to carry your load profitably
... whether on the farm or on busy
city streets.
Entirely new Vauxhall suspension.
Independent “wishbone” front and
semi-elliptical rear suspension of proven
design plus direct acting telescopic
shock absorbers give you the smoothest
ride whatever the load, or road.
Passenger Car Comfort for 3 People.
Interior follows the pleasing appoint-
ments of the Vauxhall car styling . . .
with the same roominess and spreading
comfort.
Modern Vauxhall Styling. Look at this
swift-line beauty I Here is a unit that
you’ll be proud to drive on social as
well as business occasions.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
JACJfvsOfJ *
OSUMJVAJr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, HEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
‘jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
cartons, labels and wrappers
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street. Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE “WILD CAT*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... •• 2/-
Yearly . ..
~ , , . .
myselt, and was, drawn into it-
a tapestry that gently stirred in
the wind with moving familiar
figures and familiar sounding
VO,CeS '
~ f ~
W ITH sdti nB before him
m .*>“ L “ kin P ew > , wIU !
Ella gazing fixedly at the colored
window from her position in the
choir, with a churchful of
onlookers below him—we were
onlookers more than
worshippers ; and as such,
although regular attenders
especially at morning services,
more regular than usual in
the prevailing circumstances
whose eyes sought the slightest
attitude of outward distress in
the triangle of which he was the
apex, Anthony ascended the
pulpit each Sunday like a lonely
traveller climbing a hill to survey
from its summit no promise of
refuge from his isolation.
tt„ , ... ~
He preached w.th exertion,
and hoUowly as ,f calling out
for help, and was rigorously
worn down by the effort each
of C Te'\eekt a le a tween Tta
* tne f . we ,'L between. The
exhaustion left an increasing
alternating hoarseness and shrill-
ness in his voice, a brittle light in
his eyes, and an accelerating
emaciation in his small body.
As a consequence of this, the
design of his head, which kept
its broad features of chin, nose,
jaw, cheekbones and forehead
somehow immune from the
erosion ravaging cheeks and the
sockets of the eyes, assumed a
largeness and strange distinction.
It seemed the only reliable part
of his body where his pride could
lodge.
Men go mad in deserts and at
sea, and in lonely rooms and on
street-corners. Anthony went
mad in his pulpit, but, cunningly,
he kept the fact from us. We
expected a recognisable break-
down of some kind, but were
deprived of the faintest visual or
audible manifestation of the
ultimate collapse. Even though
tortured in mind and declining
in physical resistance, it is
possible (possible, I merely say)
that our pity, our incredulity,
our curiosity, our impatience
towards him and our rigid
manner towards Ella deadened,
froze, any volition he might have
had to grind his teeth or tear his
hair; which is how, being col-
loquially minded, we imagined
the malady would embody itself.
On his last Sunday with us he
stepped down from the pulpit
after a labored valedictory
sermon emanating dutiful regret
and shook hands with all of us
at the door as if he were thanking
us for the genetic goodness of
sentiments for whose cretinous
appearance we could not be held
responsible, even though we had
for two years filled the church
with them like distracting flies
in the face of his evident desire
to be allowed to see things
through with dignity. We were
fooled. It was Anthony’s victory,
subtle and vicious, and his mad-
ness obtained it for him.
COON after he left the church
we heard he was admitted
to one of those sanatoriums
where people who lose grip on
reality because of their sensitive
conscientiousness in trying to
hold on to it are treated for non-
violent aberrations as if these
were violent or, which is worse,
as if they, the sufferers, were
schoolboys “caught out” in a
misdemeanor.
Over the years occasional
news drifted through to us. Its
continual tragic tone, ringing
remotely on our ears, affected us
no more than the Watkins
Memorial bell which Anthony
used so often to ring so assidu-
ously, right up to the time of
his departure. It was merely
something by which we timed our
habits by nods or shakes of our
heads or perceptible quickening
moves to keep ourselves punctual
at church'and abreast with our
Sundays.
Ella’s death reminded us only
of a white face in the choir and
of sweet jams. We wondered
what she died of, of course, and
settled knowledgeably on grief
caused either by love or remorse.
Causes seemed always to enliven
afternoon-teas more than their
results. That is one reason why,
after Anthony went away, we
ceased to care overmuch about
him, or Ella, and why we were
able to receive the information
about his entrance into the
sanatorium with an emotion too
meagre to be in the slightest way
demonstrable.
It was, after all, a happening
outside the bounds of Sinnett-
street, and, besides, had we not
predicted it? The fullest savor
of the tragedy had been for us
in the casual events, which we
had seen and understood. We
could have no conception of
insanity or death at any time or
in any place. Like the piquancy
of Ella’s love for Don Larkin,
these things were beatitudes or
despairs we could not enter into ;
only pick at with the inept
apparatus of an intelligence
mainly built bn observable signs.
And when Don Larkin was
killed in action on the Sanananda
Track the news moved us even
less, for there was both a result
and a cause that came, in the war
years, within the category of
trivial, because to us unimagin-
able, tragedy. The Larkin
family, entirely as a gesture of
their own, put up a plaque to him
on the wall of the church. We
noticed its being there. It was
tfot unlike thousands of plaques
similarly installed in thousands
of other churches in all parts of
the country.
TIME arrested Anthony, Ella
and Don in that distant
world as deliberately as it urged
us onwards, undiverted in
routine, character and experi-
ence, but foolishly aged. Only
those of us who went away to
grow old elsewhere and did not
return became wise, and being
wise longed to be back again
among the church feasts and
parenthetical prayers and the
morning sunshine lighting the
colored window like a fancy in
which we all found narrow but
easy shelter,
Therefore, although seeing
Anthony again after the
corrosion of those separate years.
changed in nothing except his
dress, his misty ghostlike hair.
the motion of his jaws, and the
possession of a battered port-
manteau and a greater degree of
pride, brought unease, it brought
also an acute nostalgia, and I
wished I could have escaped per-
manently into my memory to
live just as he, plainly, enviably,
lived youthfully, victoriously and
eternally in his.
GREAT LAKE COUNTRY
This is no laughter-land. Here no birds sing.
The impatient torrents fret their cold, black stones.
Cloud-phantoms trail their shreddy shrouds, or cling
To flinty ridges which, like Earth’s bared bones.
Thrust through the gelid flesh. No living thing
Moves carefree here; the searching, sad wind moans
Around the traveller, sighs, and passes on
From nothingness to nothingness; is gone.
This is the twilight borderland of space.
Here springtime never comes, nor gentle breeze;
Only the thin waif wind for ever strays
Among the naked rocks, while bone-bleached trees
Point naked arms, gaunt signposts of old gales.
Awed by unsoftened Earth, the traveller sees
God’s agelessness, and knows himself to be
A fleeting fragment of Eternity.
TASMANIA.
J.C.H.


Research in Industry . . .
i
No. 5 of a Series
A lp tJMan’s
jCand
Great tracts of Africa re-
main today much as
Livingstone found them
silent, often beautiful,
potentially fertile, but
without human inhabi-
tants. No man lives here,
for he cannot survive
without his cattle, and in
those regions even the
hardiest beasts are struck
down by a deadly disease
trypanosomiasis carried by the tsetse fly. Today, science is
mounting a powerful offensive against trypanosomiasis; and one
of the spearheads of the attack is ‘Antrycide’ a new drug developed
by 1.C.1. in 1949. This compound can not only cure cattle
stricken with the disease but it can also prevent it from develop-
ing in animals living in tsetse-infested areas. Millions of pounds
are saved annually in Australia’s wool industry by the use of
phenothiazine, the most effective known worm drench for sheep.
Recently, research carried out by officers of the C.5.1.R.0. with
samples of phenothiazine prepared -by ICIANZ at Botany in
N.S.W. has shown that the very small particles of phenothiazine
are the most efficient. As a result of this work the ICIANZ
Liquid “Phenovis” now contains phenothiazine much more finely
ground than any other phenothiazine available throughout the
world and the local product will therefore be found to be much
more effective. The ICIANZ phenothiazine plant at Botany has
recently been enlarged and it is now the largest single plant in
the world; capable of supplying Australia’s requirements at all
times.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES fici^
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED \^7
L. 588.4948
Reminiscences of an Old Sailor
Her Ladyship the Schooner
By C. R. McCLEAN
5 AILING-SHIPS were essen-
tially feminine; and fifty
years ago, when it was
common to sight them at
sea, it was a pleasure to watch
one dressed in new sails spank-
ing along in a fresh breeze:
there was no doubt of their
femininity, for no two ships
were ever exactly the same.
Even if they were sister-ships
they would have individual habits.
One could imagine a full-
rigged ship as a dowager, a
barque or barquentine as a
matron, and a schooner as a
flirty young teenager; the
dowager saying to the matron,
“The way those young things get
around nowadays With the mini-
mum of clothing on! When I
was a girl ”
They had their whims, dislikes
and likes, too ; for one would
be homeward-bound, with a fair
wind —only demonstrating her
going nicely, when there would
be a bang and a crash, and the
masts would quiver and the rig-
ging wires twang as the booms
crashed over. She had merely
jibbed from some stray puff of
wind —only demonstrating * her
femininity: she hadn’t liked the
wind blowing her skirts around.
Another ship: on the port
taclc, sliding along gracefully,
almost steering herself; an easy
time for the man at the wheel.
She changes over to the star-
board tack, then shows her inde-
pendence, for she either wants to
head-up into th£ wind or head-
off ; with the man at the wheel
constantly checking these moves.
She evidently likes walking up
one side of the street only.
With that particular lady
everything was checked to find
the cause of this difference in
steering: sails, rudder and con-
tours of both sides of the hull.
But nothing was arrived at. . .
A fishing-schooner was built
on the coast of Nova Scotia. She
was not of any special design ; just
the general run of broad beam,
plenty of deck-space, and general
stout construction. But after a
few weeks, when she had
stretched her sails and settled
down, she was found to be a
flyer. She could outsail the fleet,
in anything from a light air to a
full gale.
On one occasion the coast-
guard gave a storm-warning of a
blizzard from the direction of
Greenland, so all the dories were
picked up and lashed down in
preparation for the beat back to
port. But the traditional “calm
before the storm” occurred: the
water was like glass, with the
clouds seemingly mast-high. Yet
this flyer edged her way out of
the fleet, found a few puffs of
cat’s-paws, then a few more
puffs here and there until she
picked up a breeze, and she was
back in port unloading before
the storm broke. The rest of the
badly battered fleet struggled
home from five to eight hours
later.
The owners of this flyer de-
cided to have another schooner
built on exactly the same lines
by the same builder. The same
patterns and moulds were used ;
the same size in ribs and plank-
ing ; also masts, rigging and sails
were copied as near as crafts-
manship could do it.
She was a disappointment-
only slightly better than the
average of the fleet, and not in
it with her sister, in a light breeze
or a gale.
The owners blamed the builder,
who, in turn, blamed the crew.
So the crews were exchanged on
trial. Then they, in their turn,
blamed the sails, which were also
exchanged, with no effect.
The two ships were put on the
slips together; the hulls were
compared; but no one could
point out anything which would
account for the difference in
speed ; in fact, the younger sister
had the appearance of a
smoother finish. So it was just a
case of the elder sister being full
of life and movement, while the
younger one was of the staid and
steady type.
This flyer once undertook a
mercy trip. There were a chap-
lain and a nurse who, weather
permitting, visited the ships on
behalf of the Sailors’ Mission.
The nurse had plenty to do, with
cuts, fishhooks and fishbones
causing septic wounds. One day
on the flyer a kerosene-lamp
exploded in her face. She
bravely told the skipper what to
do as first-aid; she was burned
on the lower part of the face,
the hair and feet —luckily her
eyes escaped lightly.
The skipper decided to make
for port, without waiting for the
mission steamer, so he collected
the nearest dories, leaving the
others to be picked up by a boat
he signalled. There was a light-
to-moderate breeze on the port
quarter, so all sail was set, in-
cluding a flying-jib and spin-
naker which the owner had had
installed for a trip to Boston to
the wedding of his daughter, due
a couple of weeks later on.
All hands were on their
mettle ; no sails were ever better
tended in any yacht race ; and
the flyer, proud of her new
finery, was pleased to help a
sister in distress. She flew.
The distance was 130 miles;
near the end the signal for
“urgent doctor” was run-up;
it was passed on by a light-
house ; and a fishery patrol-
steamer met them at the
entrance to the harbor with a
doctor and nurse aboard —nine
hours all told.
The nurse made a good recov-
ery, without a visible scar, and
later, knowing the way to the
hearts of seamen, she presented
an enormous plum-duff and an
enlargement of a photo taken
after the accident. Of course
this led to an invitation to come
aboard and bust another lampT
The trip to Boston that, fol-
lowed was an event for the crew.
A hold was cleaned out to pro-
vide accommodation for five
extras; carpet-bags containing
newly pressed suits and stiff
collars were lashed to the deck-
beams for safe-keeping, and all
sail was set —the trip of about
1000 miles taking just over three-
and-a-half days.
The wedding was a great suc-
cess, though no one would have
recognised the crew in clothes
only used for weddings and
funerals.'
Not far out of Boston on the
return trip, in a spanking breeze,
they overhauled and passed a
yacht which was one of the con-
tenders for the American Cup
against the British Shamrock.
One of the crew held a line over
the stern to offer them a tow!
Later the schooner’s owner
challenged the yacht to a race,
but it was below the dignity of
a lady like an amateur yacht to
compete against a working fish-
girl.
Unfortunately, the flyer that
went past the yacht with her nose
in the air, quite pleased with
herself, was lost three months
later —rammed and sunk by a
freighter in the Gulf of St.
Lawrence. She died too young, ..
On the Pacific runs some of
the schooners departed from
grace, taking no pride in their
appearance: e.g., a six-masted
schooner with stump-masts, no
higher than the peak of the main-
sails ; the mainsails cut almost
square ; and no top-masts or top-
sails. They carried no finery,
were mere working-girls in
overalls, but they had a fair turn
of speed.
A mail-steamer from Sydney
to ’Frisco was between Papeete
and the American Pacific Coast
when word went around among
the passengers that there was a
sailing-ship close by. It was 8
a.m., and this three-masted
schooner was keeping pace with
the steamer, which was doing 14
knots, being slowed-down for
cleaning fires, Half-an-hour later
the steamer increased to 15
knots ; the schooner then hoisted
a large foresail and a flying-jib,
heaved on the braces, and drew
level again.
She was a strange-looking
craft, for her hull appeared to be
too short; the after- or mizzen-
mast was aft of the wheel, with
the boom overhanging the stern
by half its length, the sheet-
tackle fast to an outrigger like a
jib-boom, and the mizzensail a
triangular one with no gaff, the
peak being hoisted to the mast-
head.
About 10 a.m. the wind died
down, and the schooner dropped
astern ; then the wind came with
about the same intensity and she
gradually overhauled and passed
the steamer, giving a disdainful
look at the dirty black smoke.
By sunset she was just visible
ahead.
This schooner had originally
been built as a two-master, with
an enormous mainsail; but she
steered very badly and the sail
was too unwieldy for the crew to
handle, so alterations were
made by stepping a mizzen-mast,
which made her much better
balanced. Her skipper was
known as Sharkey, and as this
mizzen-sail had the shape of a
shark’s fin the schooner was
known as the Sharkfin. She had
a whim, for she preferred sail-
ing on the port-tack, on which
she was a knot to a knot-and-a
half faster than on the starb’d-
tack. But there was no explana-
tion.for this, and she would not
tell.
The fire was still burning after
the ’Frisco earthquake when the
Sharkfin arrived in a port in
Oregon, where orders were given
to load her with timber, cement
and tinned-stuffs. Loaded, she
was deeper in the water than she
had ever been ; sawn-timber and
cement in casks below, and with
a deck-cargo over rail-high of
heavy beams.
The deck-cargo was lashed
down with chains and rigging-
screws, and reefs were taken in,
for bad weather was expected.
She ran into a head-on half-gale,
through which she made very
little way; it was quite evident
that she objected to being so
deep in the water.
Eventually the wind dropped
to a flat calm, with torrents of
rain. She was now absolutely
helpless, rolling heavily, this
caused by the cement below and
the heavy deck-cargo. Her sheets
were braced tightly inboard to
prevent damage during the roll-
ing ; then, out of the blue, came
a twister of a gust of wind, like
a miniature tornado, which
caught her on the port-beam and
laid her over nearly on her beam-
ends.
The chains holding the port
timber carried away, due to the
swelling of the wood through
being soaked so constantly. The
timber took charge, carried away
the deck-house crew’s-quarters,
also the galley.
There was no wind, but the
heavy swell dislodged other
beams, which all stacked up on
the starb.-side, and with her at
this angle the only place for the
crew was the lee rigging.
Hours passed. Their only
hope seemed to be for all the
deck-cargo to come adrift and
float away. Their lifeboat and
dinghy had been sashed they
were on the roof of the deck-
°Luckily, they hadbeen S ,ghtcd.
Coastguard cutt
off before dark, a 8 t
ments were made for g
take out gear to salvage
vessel m the morning. 1
duly Proceeded tothescene, but
it had been blowing during
night; timber was scattered
a wide area; no sign o
schooner.
The verdict, after furt er
search, was missing, pi esum
sunk ; but some weeks later
seaman from another schooner
declared m a wat ®J sl i|®
that he had seen the Sharkfin a
couple of hundred miles west of
the scene of the capsize a
after it happened ; * ®P
in his memory was that s
no sails cm the mam, altho g
there was a light breeze.
The sailor was emphatic about
it, but'he had no witnesses, and
it was put down as an ordinary
saloon seafaring yarn. So her
end still remains a mystery or
does it?
A chart will show the Takelau,
or Union, Group of islands to
be about 300 miles north of
Samoa. There are three main
islands Taakofa, Nukanona
and Aitafu. And on Nukanona
is a remarkable church, quite
different from the ordinary run
of island churches.
Instead of the raised coral
floor often seen in others, this
church has a timber floor of 3in.
planks (suitable for a bridge),
and it is raised on piles, each of
these a full cask of cement
solidified in water, with the
marks of the staves still im-
printed on them!
. ~ , ~ ..
According to an old native
who had spent some years on
trading-schooners when he was a
youth the island was visited one
morning by a terrific hurricane.
All the inhabitants made their
way to the lee-side of the island,
to escape the spray and flying
debris, and to bemoan the loss of
coconuts, breadfruit and
bananas, as well as their houses.
When the wind eased, some of
the strongest made their way
back to the village to learn the
worst. They came hurrying back
to say that there had been a
wreck on the beach, and there
was timber scattered everywhere.
Now, timber on a coral island
is, of course, invaluable. Canoes,
outriggers, fish-spears, food-
bowls, supports for houses, and
fuel —to mention a few uses.
So they all struggled back to
begin salvage.
When the seas calmed down
the wreck was examined, but it
was smashed beyond recognition.
There was no sign of lifeboat,
lifebuoys or bodies ; and around
the wreck they found casks of
solidified cement, which they
rolled ashore high and dry.
They also retrieved sacks of saw-
dust, flour in casks, salmon,
tinned-beef and tinned-fruit.
Some ten days later a mission-
ary arrived on a trading-schooner
from Apia with food, to find
most of the natives ill through a
mixture of salmon and peaches.
He set some of them to their
neglected fishing. As well, holes
were dug a few yards apart, and
a mixture of sawdust, wood-ash,
burnt coral and vegetable debris
put in them, and a banana
sucker planted in each hole. The
church was then built, the solid
cement blocks being used as the
piles.
The preacher reported the
wreck to the German Customs,
who notified the British and
American Consuls, but nothing
came of it, as, just then, there
was no vessel unaccounted for.
However, the timber was U.S.
Pacific Coast oregon-pine and
redwood.
Also, at the other island of
Taakofa canoes which will hold,
16 bags of copra, with a crew of
five and two passengers, can be
seen “jumping the reef,” and
these canoes are of oregon-pine,
built up in sections and laced
together . with coconut-fibre.
And this timber, too, was found
on the reef after a hurricane just
within the memory of the oldest
inhabitant.
It all seems to point to the
vanished Sharkfin. If this is
right, her Ladyship’s monument
remains on Nukanona, in the
curious church with its cement-
cask piles, and will remain there
for ever, like the monuments on
Easter Island.


now
available
at all
hotels
The Stout
that does
you a
power
of good!
BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALFRED JAMESON late of
441 David Street, Albury.—TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN JAMESON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1234 of
1954 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years ana
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Streei
Sydney by the 6th day of December
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. HERALD,
BRUCE BRIERLEY & ENGLAND,
Petitioner’s Solicitors, of 109 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney spring racing should
get off to a bright start at War-
wick Farm on Saturday, when
the A.J.C. will stage the Hobart-
ville Stakes for the best three-
year-olds, the Warwick Stakes
(weight-for-age) and the Camp-
belltown and Spring Handicaps.
A small but select field is ex-
pected to line up for the Hobart-
ville Stakes, with Lindbergh the
most popular candidate. Chief
rivals should be Magic Chant,
Pride of Egypt, El Carratero,
Corqnado and Indian Empire.
The Warwick Stakes will bring
together most of the best horses
in training in Sydney, with chief
interest focusing on the per-
formance of Epsom favorite
Prince Cortauld. He is well for-
ward in condition and could do
well first-up after a spell.
Twelve months ago Tarien
cleared out to win the Warwick
Stakes from Carioca and Advo-
cate. She started at even-money,
and admirers anticipate x that she
will again play an important part
in the finish. Advocate, in view
of his last-start win at Rosehill,
could make it tough.
San Domenico, still in training
in the country, won the Warwick
Stakes in 1950 and in 1951.
Earlier^dual-winners were Chat-
ham and Johnnie Jason,
Limerick won the race three
times (1927-28-29), M- McCarten
his jockey on all three occasions.
Now, as a trainer, McCarten
might win next Saturday’s race
for one of his patrons'.
Sydney racegoers who have
played the favorite at recent
fixtures must be losing fortunes.
Once again, on Saturday, there
was a complete blackout of
first-elects. At the Canterbury
Park meeting all seven were
beaten ; seven out of eight had
been downed at the previous
meeting there a week earlier. To
rub it in on Saturday two rank
outsiders were successful, while
the last winner of the day,
Ragbo, started at 15 to 1.
There’ll be another Canterbury
fixture next Wednesday, August
25.
Remarkable feature of the
record Sydney suburban doubles-
tpte dividend of £2203 Os. 6d. for
55., paid to two punters on Can-
terbury winners Sinuhe and Wil-
janeil, was that the respective
jockeys, Neil Walter son and
Arthur Podmore, also figured in
the record doubles-dividend of
£3120 10s. 6d. for ss. at Rand-
wick in October, 1951. At Rand-
wick, Watterson, who rode
Sinuhe last Saturday, piloted
Johnny Zero, while Podmore,
who had the mount on Wil-
janeil, was on Val Ali. Also
coincidentally, Wiljaneil is a
half-brother to Johnny Zero.
Though Sinuhe started at 33 to 1,
he had been backed at 100 to 1,
at which price Wiljaneil sfarted.
Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane two-year-olds are now
going through their first fast
training, but the opening two-
year-old race of the Australian
season has already been run, in
Adelaide. It’s much debated
whether August racing of two-
year-olds is wise, but such early
racing hasn’t seemed to affect the
subsequent career of some of
the winners of the Fulham Park
Plate, which at Victoria Park,
Adelaide, last Saturday was won
by Rockman.
Showing improvement on re-
cent starts, Bush Hero narrowly
defeated the . strongly fancied
pair, Baroda Beam and Bacchus,
in Caulfield’s Chatsworth Plate
(one mile) on Saturday. The
Woodruffe (imp.) colt, owned
and trained by W. McKay, is a
grandson of a former speedy
mare. Belle Silhouette, whose
successes included the 1936 Oak-
leigh Plate. Heroine, dam of
Bush Hero, is by Valiant Chief
from Belle Silhouette by Beau
Fils (imp.). Bush Hero’s sire, a
son of Bois Roussel, won races
in England.
Winning of the Australian
Steeplechase at Caulfield —
longest race on Australia’s list;
3i miles, over 29 fences —by
favorite The Drum closed the
riding career of Melbourne’s
leading hurdle and steeplechase
jockey Brian Smith. In his 12
years as a 4 jockey Brian Smith
rode the winners of most major
jumping events. The Drum gave
him one of the hardest rides of
his career. Staying-blood carried
the day: The Drum gets his stay-
ing-power from his dam, Sound,
who was got by David, .a noted
stayer of his time and winner of
20 races and £31,410 in stakes.
David won long - distance
races in both w.-f.-a. and handi-
cap company. One of his best
wins was in the two-miles Sydney
Cup with 9.7. Smith won the
Australian Steeplechase four
times —a record.
New Zealander Lancaster is a
difficult horse to get away from
the barrier, and he was left at the
post in the Q.T.C. Exhibition
Handicap, However, last Satur-
day Brisbane rider N. Best was
able to get him away well, and
he won the Metropolitan
Handicap, starting second-
favorite. Another New
Zealander, Silver Kingdom, was
a hot favorite, but ran only
third.
At least three jockeys in
N.S.W. rode upwards of 100
winners in the season ended
July 31. N. Sellwood’s total,
including inter-State meetings,
was 107, as was that of D. Weir,
the latter’s figures being for the
Newcastle, provincial and city
areas. By odd coincidence,
northern - districts jockey, C.
Kelly also rode 107 winners in
the north and north-western
areas, but he also won 30 other
races outside his particular terri-
tory, mostly on the N.S.W. North
Coast and at Newcastle. He and
Barry Smith are the only north
and north-western jockeys to
have piloted upwards of 100
winners in that district. Harold
Darke, who formerly rode at
Sydney meetings, won 55 races
at northern meetings, while E.
Walmsley’s total was 80. Garth
Baird, of Dubbo, was the most
successful jockey in the western
districts of the State, with 43
wins.
England’s champion jockey
for many years, Sir Gordon
Richards, has retired, but he in-
tends to set up as a trainer.
Altogether he won 4870 races, a
world record, in 34 years’ riding,
with a total of 21,834 mounts.
In 1933 he passed Fred Archer’s
figures with 259 winners for a
season, and in 1947 he won 269
races. He headed the English
jockeys’ list 27 times.
Nomination of top-class New
Zealander Gendarme for the
weigh t-for-age races at the
A.J.C. spring meetings will
hearten those who have taken
the horse in doubles, as he figures
near the head of the Epsom
list and is one of the favorites
for the Metropolitan. He is
to leave N.Z. for Sydney on Sep-
tember 8, but trainer Fred Smith
hasn’t so far made any decision
on the visitor’s main spring en-
gagement. Gendarme is also a
strong contender for the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups.
He has won 11 races and finished
in 11 minor places. Wins have
included the Great Northern St.
Leger and the Mitchelson Cup
m mile) with 9.5 at Auckland.
He is proved at w.-f.-a.
One smart recent naming
granted by the Registrar was
Strip Tease, for a three-year-old
filly by Removal from Party
Girl, Removal is a son of
Double Remove (imp.). Jilted,
Too, is clever for the three-year-
old filly by The Groom from
Might Not, and among other
smart names for two-year-olds
are Anzus (an Allied Power
colt); Blind Date (a Charleval-
E 1 Dorado filly); The Caliph (an
Ottoman-Ayah colt); King’s
Rule (a Sun King-Evidence
colt); Pooh Bah (a High Chan-
cellor-Forteleza colt); Psycho
(a Highstrung-Modern Ideas
colt); Quick Freeze (a Cold
Shower-Arctic Fox colt); and
Samba, for the Whirlaway-
Belle Doree filly.
On top of the A.J.C.’s many
thousands handed over in taxa-
tion, the Sydney Turf Club’s
cheque to Government revenue
was £424,000 for the 1953-54
season. The club showed a profit
of £lO,OOO. It could have done
a lot with even a slice of the taxa-
tion cut.
* * *
The Sydney Rugby Union
competition has one round to
go. University and St. George
are certain to qualify for the
final four, with Manly, East-
wood and Eastern Suburbs fight-
ing for the last two places.
Eastern Suburbs have played
in the semi-finals so often that it
has become traditional, but the
team started badly this season,
with a steady late run, upset
slightly when Manly beat them
a while back. On Saturday they
beat Randwick 45-6, and if they
beat Drummoyne next Saturday
they will meet the winner of the
Eastwood-Manly game. But
Drummoyne surprisingly beat
Manly on Saturday, 17-9. In
other games University beat
Gordon, 25-5, St, George beat
Parramatta, 30-8 —both one-
sided affairs, as the scores
indicate, and both results anti-
cipated by all concerned —and
Norths played strongly to beat
Eastwood, 6-5, after being down
0-5 at half-time.
. * • • •
Most of the Sydney clubs,
although the general standard is
fairly high, have unbalanced
teams. That is to say, the loss
through injury or the like of one
or two men can make a whale of
a difference. The exception is
University, which always seems
to have stars on tap, and can
even afford to let them go to
other clubs. The reason, of
course, is the continual flow of
fresh blood each year from the
schools, augmented, from time
to time, by New Zealanders.
Taken all round, the year’s
Rugby Union in Sydney hasn't
come up to what might have
been expected after a tour of
South Africa. Lessons learned
there have not been applied in
certain clubs, or in inter-State
and international games,
although individual players have
been well aware of them. The
primary lesson seems to be that
Rugby Union is a forwards
game.
♦ * *
After the 16th round of the
V.F.L. on Saturday there was
another change in “the four”:
Richmond out and Essendon in.
The Dons were running second-
last after the seventh round, hav-
ing then lost five and won two;
since then, despite the loss of
Coleman, they’ve fought back
and for some time now have
been within striking-distance of
the leaders. On Saturday, at
home, they just got there in a
“thriller” by four points against
Carlton (11.14-10.16). By a still-
narrower margin, two points,
South beat Collingwood, after
fighting back from a 34-point
deficit at half-time (13.12-12,16).
’Wood is having more than its
share of bad luck with injuries.
• • • •
Geelong, at home, easily
drove back the invading
Hawthorn (13.12-7.6), Footscray
and North drew in another
“thriller” (9.14 each), North get-
ting an equalising point in the
last minute, and Melbourne, with
its kicking boots on, beat Rich-
mond, despite a great final rally
by the Tigers (15.4-10.18). In
the one remaining game, the only
one with no bearing at all on the
likely line-up for the semi-finals,
St. Kilda kept a firm grip on the
second-last possie by demolishing
Fitzroy (13.14-9.15).
• ♦ *
The visiting N.Z. Soccer team
beat Australia in the first Test
in Melbourne on Saturday, 2-1.
The winners’ two goals came in
the first seven minutes; though
they didn’t break through again,
they were always the likelier
team. This side is probably the
strongest N.Z. has ever fielded in
the round-ball game; on Satur-
day it produced first-rate com-
bination and teamwork. On the
other hand the Australian XI,
which had been given no oppor-
tunity to practise together,
played, as was only to be
expected, like a team of spare
parts.
♦ * ♦
Fighting for the Australian
flyweight championship at
Leichhardt Stadium, challenger
Vince Blake (7.13 i) and
champion Taffy* Hancock
(7.13 i) put on one of the most
exciting scraps seen in or around
Sydney since the dowagers were
battling to see the Queen. Aged
24, Blake never clinched once in
the whole 15 rounds, and, out-
fighting the three-years-older
Hancock in practically every
round, won so decisively that
referee Jack Burns lost no time
declaring him the new Bst. Com-
monwealth champion. Actually,
he outfought and outboxed
Taffy from the first bell.


Where five pubs share twenty men
Wondering in Wales
By CHARLES SHAW
5 AM came with us.
He’d been to Wales
before and wanted to see
it again.
We’d had a look at the road-
map, saw things like Gwernym-
nydd, Rhosllanerchrugog and
Wem, and said to Sam “Well,
can you pronounce these
names?”
“Aw, I’ll give it a go. Why
not? Gripes, we come from
New South Wales, don’t we? If
anybody jacks-up on us we can
always hit ’em with Eunony-
hareena, or Boomoonoomoonoo-
mah, or”
“Yes,” the missus said. “I was
born near Ullagandahi, on the
Clarence.”
She gives it the deep abo,
guttural with the music sunk
in it, something as sunlight goes
down into deep, green water.
Sam looked at her. Then at
me.
“Let’s go.”
The first Welsh name we struck
was Chirk. It’s on the border
as you go north-west from the
fine old English town of Shrews-
bury, pronounced in the fine old
English style as Shrewsbury. At
Chirk a large road-sign cried
“Welcome to Wales.”
Within about 10 miles after
Chirk and Llangollen the
scenery changes most dramati-
cally, From the soft English
fields, hedgerows and copses you
come suddenly into a land of
stark mountains,’rushing streams
and narrow, deep valleys. Few
of the mountains are high—•
Snowdon itself is only 3500 ft.—■
but they march away in ridge
after ridge, without pattern or
form (as our mountains usually
run north and south), their sides
so steep as to give the illusion
that they’re much higher than
they are, and, except where
attempts are being made to grow
forests of fir on their milder
sides, bare of trees and crowned
with tumbled rocks. Grass and
a kind of low gorse clings to
some of these wind-swept steeps,
and where these can’t get a foot-
hold there is moss, or, where
even moss can’t exist, the grim
grey face of the stone.
+ +
Sheep also cling to the moun-
tainsides. Those we saw at
short range seemed to be Lin-
colns, or a Lincoln-cross of
some sort. Why they had to
get away up there beat us, for
the grass looked ever so much
sweeter lower down. Probably
the shepherds (oh, yes, there are
shepherds, usually with a couple
of Border Collies, up there, too!)
get the high grass while they
can, for though it is now sum-
mer it is cold enough (to Aus-
tralians) to suggest that within
a couple of months high up will
be a freezer.
Sam, in whose opinion sheep
are silly enough to go always
where they shouldn’t (and any-
body who knows anything about
jumbucks will agree), wants to
bet they’ve got claws to enable
them to hang on to the moun-
tain-sides. •
“They’re natural mountain
animals,” says the missus. “Sheep
and goats originated in moun-
tains. In Australia we’ve made
them plains animals. That’s why
you’re astonished to find them
walking about up there. Well,
let me tell you they get up on
New England and on the
Monaro just the same. It’s”
“Don’t alter the fact they’re
silly,” Sam says.
“All right,” the missus says,
in the kind of voice every man
knows.
“Look,” Sam says, “they’re
silly, see. You get a thirsty sheep
and put a bucket of beer and a
bucket of water in front of it
and it’ll drink the water. Don’t
that prove it!”
“Oh, look at the lovely fox-
gloves,” she cries.
They raise their spikes of bells
all along under the stone fences.
Wales must have more stone
fences than any other country
in the world. They run beside
the roads and lanes, up the hills,
down the valleys, sometimes
hanging out over frightening
drops, sometimes going straight
up a hillside. Our theory is that
there are so many stones in
Wales they have to be put some-
where, so when anybody has
a few thousand stones to spare
he builds a fence.
Maybe they’ll find them use-
ful shortly, for the nationalism
that has upset the world has
now infected Wales, and a' large
number want a Welsh Parlia-
ment, or Dominion status, or
something of the sort, and when
foreigners like us appear they
deliberately talk in Welsh just to
prove it. If the standard of the
leek should be raised in revolt,
and the English try anything, all
that will be necessary will be to
entice the invaders into a valley
and roll a couple of stone fences
down on them.
However, we made Bettws-y-
-coed (Betseecoid is near enough
for pronunciation) without being
shot at. Our reward was a scene
of beauty hard to beat. The
town nestles on the Conway,
almost under a sparkling water-
fall, with grassy lawns on the
riverbank and the music of
eternal waters. There are big
salmon and lesser fry in those
waters, and in some lonely valley
it is nothing to come on the
inevitable fisherman up to his
thighs and completely indiffer-
ent to Welsh nationalism or
Australian visitors, or anything
else except fish.
We headed for Beddgelert, on
a narrow but well-surfaced road
running between stone walls
over and around and along hill-
sides bare of anything save
grass, above the valley of the
Afon Llugwy, winding and
turning, sometimes high in the
air, at times in some deep glen,
skirting a sparkling llyn (llyn is
the Welsh for loch or lake), with
the foxgloves sheltering under
the walls.
This is a wild and lonely, yet
lovely, country, strange and un-
real to Australian eyes. It is
easy to imagine oneself a hun-
dred miles from the next human
being, though it is no more than
a couple of miles between vil-
lages, and there are cottages in
the glens and even, occasionally,
up on the windswept hillsides.
Rills and streams are every-
where, glinting half-a-thousand
feet below, chuckling under a
small bridge, or falling almost
straight down some far hill, like
a piece of snowy lace left be-
hind by a goddess who went up
there when the world was
young.
From Capel Curig we turn
south-west down the Nanty-
gwryd, and wind and twist above
a necklace of small lakes strung
together by the river, and meet
the Colwyn coming down from
the north at Beddgelert. The
two streams, Colwyn and Nan-
tygwryd, meet in the heart of the
village to make the Glaslyn, and
this meeting makes Beddgelert
one of the loveliest spots on
earth. The Nanty comes almost
straight to the meeting, broad
and shallow, rippling over stones
by the doors of cottages, so that
the villagers simply go down a
couple of steps to dip up the
water. The Col comes round in
a sharp curve, deep between
narrow banks, and sort of side-
steps into the other stream, when,
joined, both sweep passionately
over a broad, low ledge and go
together deep under a copse of
elms and maples.
Beddgelert (pronounced as
Beth-gelert—the double-d is
a cross between double-t and th)
is Welsh for the “grave of
Gelert.” Prince Llewellyn had
a palace (?) here in the days of
that Edward of England who
made a habit of assaulting the
Welsh. One day Llewellyn went
away, leaving his dog, Gelert,
guarding his infant son. On his
return he couldn’t see the child,
but the dog was lying there.
There was blood on the dog’s
jaws and chest, pieces of blood-
stained clothing about. Llew-
ellyn thought the dog had killed
the child, so he clave the dog
with his sword, only to discover
the child safe and beside it the
dead body of a wolf which
Gelert had slain.
+ +
Llewellyn raised a monument
to the hound, and years ago
somebody wrote a ballad about
it. In a field by Beddgelert is an
ancient tree-stump and against
it a slab of Welsh slate stating
that here is where Gelert was
buried and giving the story.
Sam’s opinion of it all was the
same as mine. That a man knew
little about dogs to believe his
own dog would devour his own
child. But, then, legend being
what it is, whether based on
truth or not, it’s likely that
there’s some long-forgotten
angle to the story which, if
known, would make it credible.
Our guess is that Llewellyn ran
in to find the dog and wolf in
holts, made a slash with his
sword and hit the dog. Anyhow,
we put it to a very Welsh gentle-
man who shared a drink with us
in the Prince Llewellyn hotel,
where we stayed the night. He
stared at us out of his dark,
Celtic face, cried out in Welsh
and stood up.
In an effort to placate him
we sang “Men of Harlech” at
him. This distinctly annoyed
him.
Sam, who is one of those
pleasant Australians who would
be popular anywhere, then
grinned at him. Just grinned
that hundred per cent, grin
which has carried our kind
through wars, droughts, depres-
sions, beaten favorites and
Federal elections. It washed over
that descendant of ancient
Britons, soothed him, warmed
him, won him. In 10 minutes he
was going crook about the
drinking-laws which compelled
the pub to shut at 10 p.m. We
refrained from mentioning our
own drinking-laws, but we
hoped Judge Maxwell had met
him.
Beddgelert has five pubs and
20 men old enough to drink. The
five pubs get along by dividing
the 20 among them, four each,
except on weekends, when
tourists come in, and the four
normally assigned to, say, the
Plas Colwyn may drink in the
Royal Goat, the Saracen’s Head,
the Tanronen or the Prince
Llewellyn, provided some
tourists are shouting for them,
without fear of reprisal or boy-
cott. Four times a year the 20
names go in a hat and four are
drawn for each pub. This is to
provide a bit of variety, though
Owen Davies and Mordred
Lloyd have each, through the
luck of the draw, had to drink
at the Goat for the past 18
months...
In the morning we three
walked around the junction of
the rivers, taking in the beauty
of the general scene, slyly ob-
serving and being slyly observed
by the inhabitants. There is a
footbridge a little way back
along the Nantygwryd. While
we were on this a sudden, sharp
shower shot round a corner of
a thousand-foot-high hill on our
right. We ran over into the
street. No verandas, only cot-
tage eaves, narrow at that. We
began to run, but a woman
called from a doorway and
invited us, in out of the rain.
So we met Miss Roberts and
her old father in her trim little
cottage. Except when she was
a girl “in service,” Miss Roberts
has lived here all her life. She’s
white-haired and plump, and
there isn’t a line on her face.
She devotes her life to her
father, a fresh-faced old gentle-
man whose heart now feels the
strain of the years. They were
honestly flattered that we had
come from far Australia to see
their little country.
The little drawing-room in
the stone cottage with the slate
roof was hardly big enough to
swing a cat in, - but the walls
were packed with brass and cop-
per ornaments and knick-knacks.
There must have been two or
three hundred of them. And
every one, like the furniture and
other things, was spotless and
shining. The two women got
together on cooking, the three
men on the differences between
Wales and New South Wales.
’Twas in Beddgelert we
learned that names like Llewel-
lyn, Llangollen, Llyndy are pro-
nounced something like Klewel-
lyn, etc. The K-sound isn’t
sharp, as in Kate ; it’s a sort of
a half-K, rather as if one says
“ach” in the German fashion,
but using only the final expul-
sion of breath to form the be-
ginning of Llewellyn. This was
told to us by Fred Smith. He
runs the Prince Llewellyn and
is a Scot with a broad Hielan’
accent, so he ought to know.
Anyhow, coached by the cheer-
ful Smith and listened to by the
surrounding Welsh, we gave it
a go.
+ +
But, as Sam said, “We didn’t
have a clue,” and had to give
Cluewellyn away.
From Beddgelert we went as
far as Llyn Cwellyn to see
Snowdon, but its top was
wreathed in cloud, so we turned
back from those lovely shores,
recrossed the bridge at Beddge-
lert and bore south down the
Pass of Aberglaslyn, over the
bridge in the gorge at Pont
Aberglaslyn,. through more
scenes of both majestic and
gentle beauty to Blaenau Ffesti-
noig (don’t ask me about that
double-f) and Dolgelley to
Aberystwyth on Cardigan Bay.
There we watched English trip-
pers disporting themselves on
the sea-front, looked for but
couldn’t find a university which
the place is accused of possess-
ing, then went inland through
Tregaron to Lampeter.
Somewhere there, or maybe it
was between Lampeter and Car-
marthen, we came to a lovely
little village with the* absurd
name of Furnace, and just out-
side it, not 100yds. from the
road, splendid twin waterfalls
well over 100 ft. high. These
are, even more absurdly, the
Furnace Falls, or so we were
told.
In Carmarthen there is a tall
old stump, something like the
Explorers’ Tree just west of
Katoomba (N.S.W.). On it is a
small plate, so small you have to
go right up to it to read;
When Priory’s Oak shall tumble
down
Then will fall Carmarthen town.
— Merlin’s prophecy.
This was our first tip that we
were in the old wizard’s country,
and as we went east to Llanga-
dock we could w|ll believe it.
For in the valleys how we came
on clumps of wood in which
dragons could have been wait-
ing for King Arthur’s knights,
and by some of the little llyns
we wouldn’t have been a bit
astonished to see Lancelot
watering his prad or Galahad
resisting the advances of some
sprightly young witch.
One more grand experience
awaited us. This was when we
followed A 4069 (all roads are
numbered in Britain, A meaning
first-class, B second-class) over
Black Mountain southward to
Neath. The road winds to the
very summit of the mountain,
which is bare of timber, and
from the north side is a glorious
panorama of Carmarthenshire.
From the south you look down
into the beginning of the
Rhonnda Valley, where the coal-
mines and the factories and the
crowded towns are. That’s why
we sighed as we set out from
Neath for Chepstow and the
Beachley ferry into England.
For after Black Mountain we
left the beauty of Wales for the
ugly coal country, and that’s
not worth writing about, except
in a social tract or as the back-
ground for a novel.
Cambria to us, however, will
always be a memory of moun-
tains and streams and bright-
eyed hill people.
FLYING-FOX ON BARBED-WIRE
Little nightmare flying-fox *
trapped on the cruel barbs of day
has no weapon but a wing
and a tiny scream.
Here’s a patch of night— a thing
that looks by daylight like a hoax;
dawn wouldn’t let it fly away
with its kin. into its dream,
but stabbed with a pin its velvet hand
and hung it in a hostile land.
Imp from the world of upside-down,
here’s some darkness in a bag
to foil your frightened needle-bite.
Now we can untie
from the staring stake of pain
your black claw on its velvet rag.
Scramble, silent, out of the light
and hang by your feet in the kind-leaved tree.
Gargoyle, thief, forget your grief
and go to your country night; and we,
accomplice to day’s enemy,
too must forget
that we and the Devil ever met.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TO
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRALIA
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is now available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can be manufac-
tured, and supplied, to Lloyd’s Class 1 requirements, and
to meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the A.P.I.-A.SM.E., and
Codes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
By Appointment
to H.M. King
George VI
By Appointment
to H.M. King
Frederik IX
By Appointment
to H.M. King
Gustif V
By Appointment
to hLM. the
Queen of the
Netherlands
/
Denmark?* Liqueur Delight since ISIS
All your guests will enjoy it
anytime!
Round off your dinner with Cherry
Heering—an old liqueur delight from
Denmark which all guests enjoy. Made
with unchanged formula for four
generations by the Heering family in
Copenhagen . , . and patronised by
royalty. Serve chilled.
CfijeM/jHeMmf
attt/llce 6iea/nt
A most distinctive
dessert. Try it I
nip**
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RED CHINA AND U.N.
When the American House of
Representatives lately voted
380 —0 against the admission of
Red China to the United Nations,
“New York Times” commented
that the vote was an accurate
reflection of “the temper of the
whole American republic”:
“Their action should not be
dismissed lightly by those
elements in international life
that think the United States posi-
tion on Red China is whimsical,
emotional and ‘unrealistic.’ It
is, to say the least, very real and
unequivocal.”
Also commenting on the
subject, “U.S. News and World
Report” opines that “there is no
way, as U.S. officials see it, for
the Chinese Communists to get
into the Security Council of the
United Nations if the U.S. uses
its veto to keep them out”;
“Secretary of State John
Foster Dulles says that he will
use the veto-power if necessary.
That would be the first time the
U.S. has used this power, while
Russia, so far, has used the veto
60 times.
“In the General Assembly,
however, pommunist China
could get in whether the U.S.
objected or not —provided it
could get two-thirds of the votes
of those present and voting.
That, at least, is the way the
U.S. interprets the Charter of
the United Nations.
“In the United Nations there
are 60 nations. The U.S. and
the American republics have 21
votes. That strength alone —as
long as American nations hold
together—is enough to block a
two-thirds vote in the Assembly.
Even if some American republics
do not choose to vote with the
U.S. against a seat for Com-
munist China, there are enough
nations elsewhere in the world
who would join the U.S. to
provide the 21 votes.
“The mystery, to many
Americans, is why there is such
a major drive to get the Chinese
Communists into the U.N. In
much of the world leading states-
men have staked their reputa-
tions on the outcome, one way
or another.
“In a showdown, as things
look now. Communist China will
still be kept on the outside look-
ing in when the United Nations
General Assembly meets in New
York next month. Past perform-
ances favor the U.S., not the
Communists. There have been
150 attempts to get the Chinese
Communists into the various
organs of the United Nations.
So far the Communists, in every
case, have been kept out by big
majorities.”
While it might be a “mystery”
why some statesmen favor the
admission of Communist China
to the U.N., it’s obvious enough
why others .are so eager. As a
London “Time and Tide” writer
points out, the Communist
States have three interests in
belonging to the U.N.:
“The first is to prevent its
functioning against their planned
aggressions. The second is to
use it as a world propaganda-
platform. The third is to use it
to stage issues which, it is calcu-
lated, will divide the non-
Communist States, and especi-
ally America and Britain, from
each other, thereby facilitating
the absorption of non-Com-
munist States into the Com-
munist Empire and preventing
common action against, absorp-
tion.
“In all three respects the Com-
munist States have been remark-
ably successful. Their empire
now covers one-third of the
population of the world, and
there is no evidence whatever of
any slowing-down in the declared
purpose of extending it further
and further till it covers the
earth.” *
Meanwhile, David Lawrence
comments editorially in “U.S.
News and World Report” that
the expected U.N. debate on the
admission of Red China is a
“great opportunity for the
United Nations” to assert itself
as the world’s paramount moral
force. Taking up a London
“Times” remark —that “British
public opinion looks at the
problem of Peking’s admission
to the U.N'. as one of law and
not of morals” —Lawrence asks:
“Does this mean that we must
take refuge in legalisms because
we do not have the courage to
defend moral principles?”
“The United Nations by
formal resolution,” he adds,
“declared Red China’s Govern-
ment an aggressor. Nothing has
happened to show that the
aggressor has purged himself of
his sin and is capable of adher-
ing to the moral standards
required of U.N. members.
“It is important to let the
whole world know now the
moral issue, and if in the face of
these there are Governments
which wish to disregard moral
law and rationalise such dis-
regard on the grounds of
expediency then membership in
the United Nations will not be
worth the paper it is written on.
So far as moral force is con-
cerned, the organisation itself
would fall into disuse without
raising the technical issue of
America’s presence or absence in
such a discredited body.
“But if the United Nations
exhibits a due regard for moral
issues its position will be
enhanced throughout the world.
The Communist Governments
will see themselves and their
propaganda stymied in the court
of world opinion even as the
peoples of the Communist
countries are encouraged by such
a - universal display of moral
courage.”
Suez Postscripts
The three differing views here
presented on the British with-
drawal from Suez represent (1)
a British Conservative opinion in
favor of the withdrawal, (2) an
American assessment not quite
so optimistic as the sentiments
expressed by President Eisen-
hower and US. Secretary for
State Dulles, and (3) an attack on
the withdrawal by one of the
British Conservatives who
strongly opposed it.
Supporting the Government,
Major Tufton Beamish, Con-
servative member for Lewes,
wrote, in London “Daily Tele-
graph,” that to have remained in
Suez would have meant
“keeping about 75,000 troops
permanently stationed in a
hostile country”:
“It would have precluded the
long-overdue redeployment of
our forces in the Middle East, the
need for which nobody has
denied. The Sinai neck of land
has often been described as the
‘Gateway to Africa’: whoever
heard of defending a gate by
sitting on it? Critics [of the
withdrawal] seem to ignore the
new and growing advantages of
air-trooping.
“Failure [to have withdrawn
from Suez] would also have
resulted in grave deterioration of
our relations with Egypt, perhaps
even involving , open hostilities
and the reinforcement of our
forces ; and would have wrecked
the excellent prospects of extend-
ing and improving our friendly
understandings with other
members of the Arab League.”
Continuing, Beamish added
that remaining in Suez would
not have ensured, in peace-time,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune’
“SHE WAS POOR BUT SHE WAS HONEST”
“the freedom of navigation of
the Canal, which has been
hampered by Egypt in spite of
her legal obligations and the
1951 United Nations resolution.
and in spite of thf presence of
75,000 British troops in the
Canal Zone. The solution to
this must surely be sought inter-
nationally outside the context of
a new military treaty with
Egypt.”
Nor would it have done any-
thing “to safeguard the interests
of the free countries in Middle
East oil or to help the Sudan
towards genuine independence,
or to forward British plans for
progress in the African con-
tinent.”
The American comment (that
of Hanson W. Baldwin in “New
York Times”) hardly agreed with
President Eisenhower’s statement
that the withdrawal agreement
“satisfies the legitimate aspira-
tions of both parties and takes
care of the requirements for the
defence of the West.”
According to Baldwin, “it is a
profound mistake to assume that
the lowering of the Union Jack
at Suez represents a net gain for
the West. Superficial relations
between Britain and Egypt, which
have been at times exceedingly
strained, and between Egypt and
the United States, will improve.
But the basic strategic fact about
the impending withdrawal of
British power is that it will*create
another vacuum of power in an
area—the Middle East—already
distinguished for its lack of
power.
“The defence of the Middle
East has been predicated in the
past upon a strong Turkey and
a strong Pakistan on the flanks
and the availability of a large
Egyptian air-sea-land base and
depot covering the Suez Canal
and backing up all forward bases
in the area, such as the British
facilities in Irak,
“It is clear,” Baldwin con-
eludes, “that the impending with-
drawal is an undesirable military
expedient, undertaken partly be-
cause of the decline of British
power, partly because of our
own [American] equivocal
policies in the area, and partly
in the hopes of political and
psychological gains in the Arab
world. The last-named is likely
to be an evanescent hope;
retreat, particularly under


WERE THE
FRENCH BETRAYED IN
INDOCHINA?
Was the French defeat in Indo-China
“inevitable,” or was it the result of
treacherous policies which can be traced
b,ack to an American State Department
still influenced by associates of Alger
Hiss and other secret Communists?
These and other aspects of the Com-
munist victory in Indo-China are dealt
with in the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY.
Month by month THE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY brings to its readers up-to-date
reliable reports and comment from all
over the world on the growing con-
spiracy against Christian Civilisation.
This SURVEY is essential for all re-
sponsible members of the community; it
provides them with vital information not
readily available elsewhere. A new
subscriber in England writes that THE
INTELLIGENCE SURVEY “is the best of
its type I have yet seen.”
Single issue of INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual Subscription £2/2/. post free
Order from —
The Victorian League of Bights
(non-partyj non-sectarian),
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
with the NEW
Gillette
The new Gillette ‘Rocket Set’
is Superspeed Shaving at a price
to suit every pocket. Compact
moulded case, quick-action
one-piece Gillette Razor,
quick-feed Dispenser with
six Blue Gillette Blades
and a place for used
blades. All for only 9/6,
Mm
pressure, does not breed respect
but more pressure.”
The dissenting British Con-
servative, Julian Amery,
expressed his views with,
ironically enough, an almost
ChurchiUian resonance in
London “Time and Tide.” In
withdrawing from Suez, he said,
we [Britain] are “renouncing our
rights under the Anglo-Egyptian
Treaty and the Suez Canal Con-
vention to station troops in
Egypt until such time as Egypt
is able ‘by her own unaided
resources to assure the liberty
and entire security of navigation
of the Canal’:
“In other words we are aban-
doning the guardianship of the
waterway which links the
western and eastern halves of the
Commonwealth; 30,000,000 tons
of British shipping pass through
the Canal every year. Sixty per
cent, of all Canal traffic sails to
or from Commonwealth ports.
Henceforth Egypt will be the
sole guardian of this traffic. It
will be in her power to keep the
Canal open or to close it, to raise
the dues, to change the regula-
tions, or to nationalise the
company which operates it.
Henceforth it will be the respon-
sibility of Egypt alone to guard
the Canal against obstruction or
sabotage.
“We are also abandoning the
greatest military base on earth.
The workshops, airfields,
hospitals and other fixed instal-
lations in the Canal Zone have
been valued at some £3OO million.
The arms, munitions, spare parts
and stores would cost £2OO
mil'on to replace. All the fixed
installations and much of the
stores will now pass into
Egyptian hands.
“Third, and more important
even than the Canal and the base,
we are surrendering the land-
bridge from Asia to Africa —the
position Napoleon once called
‘the key to the world.’
“Our withdrawals from
Palestine, Abadan and the
Sudan have already gravely com-
promised our position in the
Middle East. New claims are
made against us daily. Greece
demands Cyprus. Irak expects
us to withdraw from Habaniyah
and our other R.A.F, bases in
1956. Saudi Arabia has seized
the Buraimi Oasis in our pro-
tectorate of Muscat and holds it
against us by force. Yemen
forces raid into the Aden pro-
tectorate. Even in friendly
Jordan there have been anti-
British demonstrations and talk
of dismissing the British officers
from the Arab Legion. Mean-
while, in Libya, anti-British feel-
ing grows with the increasing
infiltration of Egyptians into the
Libyan Civil Service. In all these
countries, our withdrawal from
the Suez Canal will spur on our
foes and undermine the con-
fidence of our friends.
“Our withdrawal from Suez,”
Amery continues, “will set the
seal on the victory of the pro-
Egyptian party in Khartoum.
Egypt will now have a free hand
in the Sudan; for we shall have
abandoned oUr only means of
putting pressure on Cairo. But
the Nile does not rise in the
Sudan. It rises in Uganda.
Much of that country was under
Egyptian rule in living memory.
Opinion there is already deeply
disturbed by developments in
the Sudan,
“Nigerian Moslems, too, have
ties with Khartoum. If Egypt
becomes dominant in the Sudan,
Egyptian influence will spread
to Nigeria. Meanwhile, the
Government of Kenya is increas-
ingly concerned at the Cairo
broadcasts in Swahili in support
of the Mau Mau. The retreat
from Suez may do more than
undermine our position in the
Middle East. It may cost us our
African Empire as well.
“What will be the reactions of
the Commonwealth?
“South African and Rhodesian
political leaders are strongly
opposed to our withdrawal from
Egypt. Grave doubts are also
felt in Government circles in
Australia and New Zealand. In
two world wars South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand have
sent troops to the Middle East.
Since then they have agreed to
help in the future defence of the
Middle East. Will this commit-
ment still hold good? We shall,
certainly, have no right to be .
surprised if they turn more and
more to the United States, basing
their policy on the Anzus Pact.
“India, Pakistan and Ceylon
sympathise superficially with
Egyptian nationalism. But their
leaders —especially the soldiers
and civil servants trained under
the British raj—will be more
influenced by the realities of the
situation. If Britain is too weak
to control their Middle Eastern
flank, their attachment to the
Commonwealth will be weakened
accordingly.
“More ignominious,” Amery
concludes, “has been our passive
acceptance of Egyptian terrorism
against our troops, of the
imprisonment and even execution
of pro-British Egyptians, and of
the vitriolic anti-British propa-
ganda poured out by the Cairo
radio and Press, Our failure to
react to these provocations has
undermined our influence. Our
friends in Egypt—and they
lacked neither wealth nor power
—have lost confidence. Here
is the reason why no opposition
has emerged to overthrow the
junta or curb its extremism,
“Fearful mistakes have been
made both in the military and
diplomatic handling of the
Egyptian question. But we are
not leaving Egypt because of
these miscalculations. We are
leaving because our will to stay
has collapsed in the face of
Egyptian terr or ism and
American pressure.
“This moral collapse is not,
due to the policy or the failure
of this or that Minister. It goes
much deeper. The men who rule
Britain, not just in the Cabinet
but in Parliament and in the
Civil Service, have largely lost
faith in Britain’s mission. Their
sense of British interests has been
obscured by alien values. For
many of them, the United
Nations or the Atlantic Com-
munity take priority over
Britain and the Commonwealth.
“At the root of this confusion
of ideas lies a withering of the
motive forces. The will to rule,
the ambition to lead, and the
determination to resist have given
way to a policy of short-term
profit-and-loss calculation a
policy of counting the immediate,
money cost, which is necessarily
inaccurate because it takes no
account of permanent factors
and human imponderables.”
Where There's a
Scot-
The U.K. Information Service
reports that a factory at Govan,
Glasgow, is busy making 500
Black Watch kilts for the Royal
Canadian Highlanders, and adds
that the head of the firm main-
tains that “wherever there’s a
Scot overseas there’s likely to be
an order for a kilt. And if they
don’t order kilts, it is likely that
they will, like the New South
Wales Scottish Regiment, order
sporrans.”
As a sobering addition to that
joyous thought, however,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” wonders
“.What happens to old kilts?”
“The kilt, it remarks, is a
hardy garment that will outlast
the best of us, and will hang
reproachfully in the cupboard,
unfaded and spruce, long after
the shanks on which it swung
have shrivelled into the
inglorious safety of pantaloons,
“Well, it appears from a report
on i a show of kilts by a London
tailor, that the ancient kilt, when
xt can no lon^ T finG f, dequ i te
employment at home, follows the
£ ourse enforced upon so many
Scots and emigrates. And Africa
j s apparently the country in
which many of them end their
days.
“One would like to think that
these aged kilts, proud scions
0 f the clans, faded slowly to
their final dissolution fluttering
gloriously from the ebony
hunkers of some fierce warrior
tribesman; that they recaptured
under African suns something of
the glory that was theirs when
they were the clansman’s garb
and badge, instead of the
occasional self-conscious adjunct
of a festival, a wedding or a
Highland gathering.
“Sad though it may be, how-
ever, it is far more probable
that they end ingloriously but
usefully as colorful fragments
sought by the thrifty African not
for their romantic associations
and appeal, but for their solid
and indestructible worth. And
perhaps, after all, it is better
for all good Scots to be so
valued.”
Various Voices
Air-Marshal Sir Dermot Boyle,
C.-in-C. Fighter Command,
R.A.F.: “We [Britain] probably
have the best early-warning
radar in the world.”
R. S. Garfield Todd, Prime
Minister of Southern Rhodesia:
“Make no mistake about it, the
foe [Communism], is here, and
because he is slimy and under-
hand and as hard to grip as
quicksilver he is all the more
dangerous and real. This is the
year when his master has called
for bigger and better strikes, and
I would not have believed that
in this country we would so soon
have seen the familiar pattern,
Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery, Deputy Supreme Allied
Commander in Europe .-“There
are some who say that, if war is
joined, atomic weapons will not
be used ; I would disagree with
that Some say that the war
will be won by the air-forces and
the use of atomic and thermo-
nuclear weapons alone—directed
against the industrial potential
and morale of the enemy. I
would disagree with that. My
opinion is that the fear of atomic
weapons is a powerful deterrent
to war ; but, so far as we can
see today, once war has started
both sides are likely to use
them.”
British Secretary of State for
War Anthony Head: “If
everybody were sacked for
using an unfortunate phrase
there would be a lot of by-
elections.”


EXCITING ADVENTURES IN THE SPACE
WORLD OF THE FUTURE IN ...
M
iiil
I I
mm
m
mm
SPACE PATROL
Travel as a passenger on the rocket ship “Crusader,” 4,000 years into the future in this
thrilling story of space travel. Based on actual scientific predictions, each adventure-
crammed episode offers a breath-taking preview of the amazing woild to come.
Presented with the good wishes of the makers of Kiwi Shoe Polish.
* Capt. Kymble Kain ventures out on an unknown planet.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6iX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 3CV 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
Missing Friends
WILL AGNES ELLEN FREMLIN, ALICE
FREMLIN and JESSIE ADELINE PREM-
LIN, or any issue claiming through them,
write to the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Albert Street, Auckland, New Zea-
land ? The persons»*advertised for are the
children of WILLIAM FREMLIN and
AGNES CLEMENTINA SHAW FREMLIN
(nee ROWARTH), who were married
in 1849 in the Parish of East Peekhajn,
England.
ANY person knowing the present where-
abouts of FRANK WILLIAM JORDAN
(also known as FRANCIS WILLIAM
JORDAN), formerly of 75 Baynes Park
Road, Hampton, and 217 A’Beckett Street,
Melbourne, please communicate with Iff.
POLKINGHORNE, Solicitor, Railway
Walk, Hampton.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
TASMANIA — Divorce.
TO ALBERT HALL believed to have been
a frequent visitor at No. 51 Renfrew
Circle Glenorchy in Tasmania between the
months of October 1953 and April 1954.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of CHARLES HENRY
DOUGLAS CLARKE of Brighton Military
Camp Brighton in the State of Tasmania
Private Soldier in the Australian Regular
Army praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with RUTH CLARKE on the
ground of adultery In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the Petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within Thirty days
after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Princi-
pal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —
H. R. DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
Missing Beneficiary
THE children of MARY. ELLEN COOMBS.
nee BERRYMAN, a daughter of WILLIAM
BERRYMAN and JANE ELLIS, who was
born at Collingwood, Victoria, on the 28th
October, 1866, are entitled to share in
the estate of SARAH ANN PAINTER de-
ceased. Will they or any person having
information concerning them please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
The name fs
(D'CaUum's
the whisky Is
i
W c CaUurn’s
Scots OlhlsJy
r
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.2.
THE SUCCESS
By NANCY KEESING
MISS PARKINSON walked
carefully down George-
street towards the office.
When she came in sight
of the small clock on the west-
ern face of the G.P.O. she risked
looking upwards to it, but the
satisfaction she gaiined from
noting that it was just five
minutes to two, so that she
would not be very late in return-
ing to work, was somewhat
cancelled by the fact that this
strain on her equilibrium caused
her to stumble and almost lose
her footing. A young man walk-
ing behind her resourcefully
grabbed her elbow and said :
“Woops, Miss! ”
“Oh, thank you.” She smiled
graciously and smothered a
gentle hiccup behind an orange-
gloved hand.
After this near- contretemps
she kept her eyes fixed on the
pavement. By remaining near
the kerb she could use the out-
side line of the footpath to define
her course and she smiled
smugly to herself at the realis- 1
ation that today her feet seemed
to be carrying her perfectly
straight, if not very swiftly, -
towards Moxham buildings.
Nice of that young man, and
a tribute to her best clothes,
that he had called her “Miss”
Because these days, only too fre-
quently, when an emancipated
business girl had occasion to
accept some small service from
a young man, or to make a
slight request such as asking for
a match for a cigarette in the
tram, or to know the time, the
reply would be a cheerful “Right
you are, Ma.”
To be called “Ma”. was ex-
tremely disconcerting to an
attractive spinster
whose appealingly
youthful face twinkled
forth at the masculine
world beneath a mass
of curls as seductively
coppery as they had
been when she was an
unthinking child, un-
sophisticatedly un-
aware of their powers of
bewitching when tossed in a gay,
carefree way.
She tossed" them at the lift-
driver, and this action further
dislodged her precariously bal-
anced purple velvet cap with its
cheeky white feather. It also
caused her to hiccup agaih, and
she was unable to clap her
orange glove over her mouth
in time, so that, as the lift
reached the fourth floor, the
click of the opening door was
anticipated by an abrupt little
“hup.”
“Mind the step,” warned the
lift-driver.
“Hup.” With a sigh he limped
from his chair and took her
elbow in a firm solicitous grasp.
“Up she goes; there you are,
Miss Parkinson.”
“Thank you, Henry,” she said.
'THERE were no bells ringing
in the lift, it was ten-past-
two and most of the office-
workers had returned from
lunch, so, partly in order to let
some air into the lift which now
smelled sweetly of whisky, and
partly to make sure the old bag
was all right, he sat, looking
after her as she wove and
waddled her progress down the
marble corridor towards the
offices of “Hawkins & Hawkins,
Fancy Goods.”
. Nearly at her destination she
almost collided with a middle-
aged man coming out of the
office, but he held the door open
for her and she passed from
Henry’s view. The jnan, seeing
the lift waiting, ran for it.
“Phew! ” he said, I’ve only
seen her in the mornings before
and then she’s bad enough.
Fancy goods and no mistake! ”
“Well,” Henry said, in the
protectively loyal tone some
lift-drivers adopt towards their
own tenants, “at least she holds
her job.” •
The stranger laughed.
OUT inside the office of
** Hawkins and Hawkins old
Mr. Hawkins was smiling at
Miss Parkinson.
“I’m so sorry I’m a little late,”
she apologised, “hup!”
“Not at all. Enjoy your
lunch? You do look nice,” he
said.
She straightened and pulled
down her short green jacket,
patted her yellow- and brown-
checked skirt, and then fluffed
"I'll just duck out and barrow another bob. I'll be
right back."
her incredible pink hair with an
archly crooked finger.
“Indeed, yes, hup. But I
wished you’d been there for a
number of quite importunate
men tried to pick me up and
it’s so embarrassing. But the
streets get so crowded and I
simply could not get back by
two. Never mind. Hup. When
we have our own little cottage
I’ll never have to brave the
lunch-hour mob again.”
“That’s so,” he agreed heart-
ily, “goodness me no, my girlie
will be a real little housewife,
won’t she?”
And mastering a squeamish
repugnance he rose and gallantly
helped her to her desk. He had
spent his lunch-hour performing
his secretary’s morning work,
but, he reflected, for the
thousandth time, it was not
more than he deserved for his
failure, thirty years earlier, to
confess to Miss Parkinson that,
although engaged to her, he had
married someone else.
Mr. Hawkins stood, a thin
bald-headed man in a dusty
brown suit, regarding her with a
sort of bewildered resentment.
Apart from the fact that her very
presence in his office looked so
distinctly peculiar to clients —
that, because of her, and of his
pitiful responsibility towards
her —he had never been able to
expand his business; over and
above all this was a feeling of
frustration and annoyance.
So much of the thought which
he could have given to his
business, years of ingenuity and
cleverness, had been devoted to
this deception. - The plausible
reasons by which he had con-
vinced his wife that she must
never, never visit his office. The
oblique telephone-conversations
he had so adroitly contrived on
the rare occasions when urgency
forced her to ring him there.
This, perhaps his life’s greatest
achievement, a perfect masque-
rade, must for ever be played
out with its instigator as only
audience.
Then Miss Parkinson beamed
up at him happily.
“Oh darling, you shouldn't
have typed those letters. I in-
tended to do them directly after
lunch. Hup, pardon me. You'll
be thinking your girlie is not
efficient.”
“No, no!” he protested.
“Oh,” she gasped, and began
to weep a little, “and I did so
want to be a success as a
business girl.”
“You are, pet, you are, pet-
after all” (the ghastly formula
never failed) “how many typists
do get engaged to the boss?”
Then he comforted her,
stroking her shoulder consolingly
until her head subsided onto her
desk.
resting her face
comfortably upon her flabby
arms she smiled a little. For
today, as often happened, just
before, almost in' the same
moment that she relinquished
herself to her accustomed after-
noon slumber, came a strangely
satisfactory moment when the
dream unfolded a little, and,
although she realised that be
would never marry her, and,
indeed in this queer instant, could
admit to herself the long-
possessed knowledge that he had
married years ago, she felt glad.
Of itself, the strange fantasy in
which she habitually lived had
provided her with the most
wonderful weapon of punishment
to use against him. In this half-
tipsy drowsy state she gloated
over Mr. Hawkins’s decay,
“There, there,” she heard his
tired voice, “now, girlie.” Her
last sob was cunningly deliberate,
though so nearly asleep she was
also dangerously near laughter.
But all he saw was a final
subsidence of the fluffy head,
a sagging of the green shoulders,
and all he heard was a thickly
muttered, “Oh, I’m a success all
right,” which drew itself out in
a sigh that ended with a genteel
snore.


A WORD TO THE BOSS
truck
BUYING
ABOUT
transport costs are running up every
year,’ said the Boss.
‘Do you know why ? ’ I asked,
‘That’s what I was going to ask you,’ he said.
And so I told him—‘This business wants a
modern truck fleet. Scrap the obsolete, fuel-
eating, shabby old trucks we’ve been running all
these years. They’re a bad advertisement for the
business anyway. Put in a modern truck fleet—
Internationals. There’s an Australian-made
range of Internationals which assures us of a
supply of both trucks and parts.’
And the Boss said, ‘Huh ! What would it cost ?’
So we went into figures there and then . . .
Now we have a truck fleet that’s the pride of our
whole business —all Internationals.
My word to the Boss proved sound—so I pass
it on to you—Cut out all inferior transport.
Put in Internationals.
There’s also a line of heavy-duty
imported International models.
Call, phone or write your Inter-
national Branch or dealer about
the right truck for your job.
Note : chassis and cab capacities
include body weights.
MODEL AR-liO
Specialized ‘for your Job !
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE INTERNATIONAL LINE INCLUDES:
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. capacity,
115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis and Cab. 18-cwt.
capacity, 115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis and Cab, 19-cwt.
capacity, 127-in. w.b.
AR-112 Utility, 15-cwt.
capacity, 115-in. w.b.
AR-112 Chassis and Cab,
21-cwt. capacity,
115-in. w.b.
AR-112 Chassis and
Cab, 23-cwt. capacity
127-in. w.b.
AR-130 Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt.
capacity, 134-in. y/.b.
AR-131 Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt.
capacity, 134-in. w.b.
AR-160 Chassis and Cab, 3-4 ton
capacity, 154-in. w.b.
AR-160 Chassis and Cab, 3-4 ton
capacity, 172-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton
capacity, 154-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton
capacity, 172-in. w.b.
AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton
capacity, 154-in. w.b.
AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton
capacity, 172-in. w.b.
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd._
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities
Works : Dandenong and Geelong.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
... WORLD'S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT „
' PnT 473-3
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of A Book Is Built by
B. N. Fryer.—sB72.
Words of ballad “Old John Bax”
by C. H. Souter, and where was it
first published.—sB73.
Any printed material relating to
Australian actor Cyril Mackay, who
died in 1923; also photographs of
him and theatre programmes in which
his name appears. —5874.
To buy copy of When It Was Dark
by Guy Thorne; also copies of Helot
and Hero and The Beloved Magdalen.
—5875.
Words of verse “The Place Where
the Old Horse Died.” —5876.
To buy early pamphlets, records,
plans, etc., relating to the Ballarat
goldfield, 1857 to 1900; particularly
“Dicker’s Mining Record,” Vol. 5,
July-December, 1868. —5877.
Information Sought
Aboriginal name for a house denot-
ing river, river-bend, etc. ?
Adaluma, Balbara, Barku, Para,
Parri, Warrippa, river; Adnamira,
Akoonah, Aroona, Burrupa, Uralla,
running water; Apamurra, fresh
water; Awoonga, Bokara, sheet of
water; Belbourie, bush creek; Belu-
bula, stony creek; Boobera, large
waterhole; Culbara, sandy creek;
Dingabledinga, place of much water;
Kapala, boat; Karthina, Kayannie,
water; Kondoparinga, twisting river
place; Mooroopna, Mundoora, deep
water; Moorowie, sandy water;
Morialta, ever-flowing; Murrippi, low
water or sandbank; Myuna, Wyuna,
clear water; Parawirra, river forest;
Paringa, place at the river; Tarcoola,
river-bend; Yaralin, flowing. Unable
to say whether any of these are par-
ticularly apposite to your locality.
* * * *
Best way to repolish a table
damaged by a hot teapot?
Heat marks on polished wood can ’
sometimes be removed by rubbing
with a flannel moistened in olive-oil,
followed by treatment with furniture-
polish. The following method is
recommended: Place four thicknesses
of blotting-paper over the marks, and
iron with a warm but not hot iron.
As soon as the iron has warmed the
wood, rub the spots with a piece of
hard white paraffin-wax, rubbing hard
enough to leave a wax coating. Have
ready some pieces of hot flannel, and
rub the waxed parts with one of these.
As the flannel used cools, take another
hot piece and keep rubbing; repeat
with the heated cloths until ihe marks
disappear.
* * * *
Some information on novelist
Howard Spring?
Born in Cardiff (Wales) in 1889, one
of his earliest jobs was as cadet-
reporter on the “Sduth Wales Daily
News.” He was subsequently on the
staff of the “Yorkshire Observer” and
the “Manchester Guardian,” and in
1932 became literary-critic of the
London “Evening Standard.” He was
one of the correspondents who
accompanied Sir Winston Churchill
on the historic occasion of the sign-
ing of the Atlantic Charter. His two
sons served in the Royal Navy in
World War 11. He is a sailing en-
thusiast, and lives at Falmouth (Corn-
wall). His best-known novels are
Fame Is the Spur, My Son, My Son!,
The Houses in Between, There Is No
Armor and A Sunset Touch.
• * * *
What are the parts of the ear, and
what is the part with which one actu-
ally hears?
The ear consists of the external ear,
the middle ear and the internal ear, or
labyrinth. The external ear is made
up of an expanded portion (the pinna)
and the external auditory canal. The
middle ear consists of the tympanic
cavity, with auditory ossicles, auditoiy
tube and mastoid cells. The internal ear
consists of osseous and membranous
labyrinths, separated from each other
by a space containing a fluid known
as the perilymph. The osseous laby-
rinth consists or three parts : vestibule,
semicircular canals and cochlea. It is
the cochlea, a cavity resembling a
snail-shell, and which describes 2\
turns about a central pillar called
the modiolus, which contains the
essential organs of hearing.
* * * *
Some information on Czech com-
poser Anton Dvorak?
Born in 1841 in the Czech village of
Nelahozeves, which is situated near
the junction of the Elbe and the
Vltava, the son of the village inn-
keeper, Dvorak was a conductor as
well as composer. As a conductor he
was invited to England nine times
between 1884 and 1896, and felt a
deep regard for the British. In 1891
he received an honorary doctorate
from Cambridge University. From
1892 to 1895 he was director of the
National Conservatory of Music of
America, in New York; in 1901 he
became head of the Prague Conserva-
tory. It is said that it was Brahms
who “discovered” Dvorak. Dvorak
was a prolific composer. Besides the
“Humoresque,” he wrote »some nine
operas, including the fairytale opera
“Rusalka,” several symphonies (not-
ably the “New World Symphony”),
symphonic poems, overtures, rhapso-
dies, nocturnes, concertos and choral
works. He died on May 1, 1904.
* * * *
What is the correct pronunciation of
Sevres (porcelain) ?
The authorities do not quite agree.
The Oxford English Dictionary is
Se-vr, with the “e” pronounced as in
“chef.” Webster gives Sa-vr (“a” as
in “care”). Fowler’s Modern English
Usage says Sa-vr (“a” as in “mate”).
The “vr” is conveyed with a roll or
trill; difficult to convey in print.
Apropos the use and pronunciation of
French words in general, Fowler be-
lieves they should be used with
restraint; tete-a-tete, esprit de • corps
and such established words to be
retained in English, but that other
words and phrases such as tracasseries,
bien entendu should be completely
ignored. As for pronunciation, French
words which are used and accepted in
English should be pronounced in such
a way that the speaker will “neither
exhibit a conscious superiority of
education nor be suspected of boorish
ignorance.”
* * * ♦
List of U.S. Presidents, their years
in office and political party ?
George Washington (1789-97),
Federalist; John Adams (1797-1801),
Federalist; Thomas Jefferson (1801-
09), Democratic-Republican; James
Madison (1809-17), Dem.-Rep.; James
Monroe (1817-25), Dem.-Rep.;' John
Quincy Adams (1825-29), Dem.-Rep.;
Andrew Jackson (1829-37), Democrat;
Martin Van Buren (1837-41), Dem.;
W. H. Harrison (1841), Whig; John
Tyler (1841-45), Dem. (Tyler was
elected Vice-President as a Whig, but
on succeeding to the Presidency acted
with the Democratic party); J. K.
Polk (1845-49), Dem.; Zachary
Taylor (1849-50), Whig; Millard Fill-
more (1850-53), Whig; Franklin
Pierce (1853-57), Dem.; James
Buchanan (1857-61), Dem.; Abraham
Lincoln (1861-65), Republican; An-
drew Johnson (1865-69), Dem. (he was
a pro-Union Democrat nominated
and elected with Lincoln. In 1861 it
can be noted that a convention met
at Montgomery in Alabama and
elected Jefferson Davis as President of
the “Confederated States” of America,
remaining “President” till the end of
the Civil War) ; U. S. Grant (1869-77),
Rep.; R. B. Hayes (1877-81), Rep.;
James Garfield (1881), Rep.; C. A.
Arthur (1881-85), Rep.; Grover Cleve-
land (1885-89), Dem.; Benjamin
Harrison (1889-93), Rep.; Grover
Cleveland (1893-97), Dem.; William
McKinley (1897-1901), Rep.; Theo-
dore Roosevelt (1901-09), Rep.; W. H.
Taft (1909-13), Rep,; Woodrow Wil-
son (1913-21), Dem.; Warren Harding
(1921-23), Rep.; Calvin Coolidge
(1923-29), Rep.; Herbert Hoover
(1929-33), Rep.; Franklin D. Roose-
velt (1933-45), Dem.; Harry S. Tru-
man (1945-52), Dem.; Dwight D.
Eisenhower (1952- ).
* * * *
What constitutes a base hospitA in
N.S.W. and where are they situated?
Briefly, base hospitals are those
which have been established at focal
points in country areas to provide
as complete a range as possible of
major diagnostic facilities as well as
specialist services. It is obviously not
possible to provide these services at
all public hospitals, and for this
reason hospitals at strategic positions
throughout the State have been
selected and developed along the lines
mentioned above, so that country
people can obtain specialist and
major diagnostic services as closely as
possible to their homes, thus obviating
the necessity of travelling to Sydney
or Newcastle as the case may be.
Hospitals have been developed to
base-hospital standard and their names
changed accordingly at Albury,
Dubbo, Goulburn, Grafton, Lismore,
Orange, Wagga Wagga and Tamworth.
In addition two other hospitals,
although not so named, could be
regarded as providing an equivalent
service as the eight base hospitals.
They are the Broken Hill and District
Hospital and Wollongong District
Hospital.
Brief Answers
A.G.: Write to or call on J. and
W. Stuart, Ltd., 199 Clarence-street,
Sydney, who supply wattle-bark for
tanning nets at 6d. per lb., plus sales
tax of 12i per cent, if buyer has no
fishing licence. State size of net, when
instructions for using the bark will be
given H.R.: Fibro is difficult to
mend. Spray-painting under high
pressure would force paint into thin
cracks. Paint or a fine thin mixture
of cement applied from the upper
surface of the ceiling would find its
way down and may make a good
repair. For further information, write
James Hardie and Co., Box 3935
G.P.0., Sydney R.J.8.: The lines
are from “The Wreck of the
Brunkencrungercrob” by Henry Tate.
It was first published in The Bulletin
of December 13, 1910, page 27
M.N.: The attack on the Eureka
Stockade took place at 6.20 a.m. on
December 3, 1854... .G.F.: A double-
acting piston pump would deliver the
greater quantity of water, and would
be much cheaper and more easily
maintained... .0.5.: Billy Williams
first appeared in Sydney at the old
Tivoli Theatre on May 27, 1910,
under the management of Harry Rick-
ards T.M.: G ovett’s Leap in the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) was named
after William Romaine Govett, sur-
veyor, who discovered the falls while
surveying the district in 1831.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.M.: All that we can suggest is to
put a bomb under it. ...J.H.; Try
Buckingham Palace A.S.G.: It
didn’t Wow hard enough M.P.T.:
Winging its way home M.D.P.: It
will not appear on our bill-of-fare....
P.L.: Left the drover lamenting in
the basket C.W.C.: Not this trip.
R.P.: Almost anyone can play
those tricks W.L.H.: Tucked it
tenderly in the accompanying envelope
and sent it home R.S.: Our
“august verdict” was against you.
C.M.W.: Try- it on a woman’s
paper., . .R.J.O’S.: You need more
than a “humble purse” to attract
them these days M.J.8.: Reads
'like a seedman’s catalogue J.C.:
Never again do'we want to hear the
dingbs howl, the night-hawks shriek,
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
the mopokes cry, the sad winds moan
and the gum-trees groan... .E.R.8.:
A little too local for us R.S.:
Mrs. Mildew’s tittle-tattle on the world
situation fell on deaf ears M.C.:
“Hurrah for Our Native Land!”
Hurrah F.M.F.: Forget about the
“good old days” and concentrate on
the present D.W.S.: It is just an
album piece L.M.: It has been
done over and over again H.A.S.:
It seems as if every bush band in the
country is sighing for the past, when
“men were tough” and “lived on
salt-pork and damper” J.K.McK.:
We have never seen the basket so
crowded with spring poems....
L.M.Q.: Mum will have to do better
than that N.G.: Apart from the
improbability it is clumsily told
H.S.: Too slight.... RJ.C.: “The
Man in the Bowler Hat” was handed
his hat... .E.D.A.8.: It didn’t remain
long afloat J.M.: Your literary
effort was an effort to read H.C.:
As dull as most yams about the
future M.A.: It might stand a
chance elsewhere M.C.: You can’t
hang that washing on our line
G.C.: Give us something Australian.
... .8.M.: Far too sentimental for us.
....P.M.8.: Fred was among this
week’s casualties N.C.G.; It never
came to life G.A.P.H.: You
should be able to place them in Eng-
land.


“FOOT-ROTTING IS
EASY WORK NOW”
mm
m
i 8
;'I ' '> 10 -• **
•s?:
—writes Mr. H. McCardel t
of Mokoan Park,
BEN ALLA, Victoria.
. . there is no quick way of curing footrot
except by continual paring of the hooves for
examination, and I am happy to say that your
CRADLE-CRUSH takes the HARD but of
hard work and it is now easy work . . it
was less effort to put 2,000 sheep through
the machine 3 times than doing them by
hand once.”
THIS USER COMPARED
EVERY HANDLING DE-
VICE CHOSE WILD’S
CRADLE-CRUSH!
DRENCHING TOO!
Wild’s Cradle-Crush is the ONLY truly UNIVERSAL
crush which enables one to drench
“I found that in an eight-hour day in the old method that if we each did 100 sheep each, it was a good
day and we were pretty tired. With the machine we averaged from 300 to 320 a seven-hour day depend-
ing on how hard their feet were. If you work this out you will find that the machine is doing I M a day
by itself, that is 200 old-method, 300 Cradle-
Crush. Therefore, with a man’s wages at £3
per day, the Cradle-Crush pays for itself in
ten days. •
While you are paring the front feet you can
watch your man do the back feet properly,
also you can examine your sheep for faulty
udder or pizzle and treat same as blowfly
strike, and I have done all these.
It is excellent for vaccinating on the
brisket for Black disease, also for holding
a sheep in the upright position for
drenching.”
“I found the most suitable position was on
the shearing shed floor using the catching
pen doors as funnel.”
Price £29/10/0 on rails
Melbourne
mm:
mtiim
THE GREATEST AID TOWARDS THE CONTROL
AND CURE OF FOOTROT EVER INVENTED
WILD’S UNIVERSAL SHEEP
CRADLE-CRUSH
Available NOW from Wool Houses, Station Suppliers and Stores.
Manufactured by Pat. App. No. 22890/53
WILD’S CRADLE-CRUSH PTY. LTD., 125 William St., Melb. M 83004
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachA
ment Ulus- j
trated is the
World-famous
“ FARMERS >'
e
BOY”
STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.; Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria; Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania; Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
.74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE PRICKLY-PEAR STORY
A SMALL package with a
Queensland address on it was
posted in Buenos Aires in March,
1925. That package was worth
millions of pounds. It contained
some insect eggs.
Eighty-six years before, a
lady in Scone (N.S.W.) received
a plant in a flower-pot. The
plant was a member of the cactus
family and its botanical name
was Opuntia inermis. It had a
grotesque shape, and it propa-
gated itself with reckless ease.
A small node or a piece of the
stem, heeled into the ground,
became a robust giant in a few
weeks. Imaginative horticul-
turists greeted the novelty with
delight. The» owner of this
interesting plant had a generous
nature, and from a single speci-
men many cuttings were distri-
buted to interested gardeners.
The plant gained favor, particu-
larly among country people, who
used it as a hedge around their
homesteads.
This plant was a monster.
Sixty years later the most
dramatic and the most extensive
invasion of a country by a plant
pest known to man had been
accomplished, and the Opuntia
inermis, or prickly-pear, had
claimed 10,000,000 acres of the
inland pastoral and agricultural
country of New South Wales and
Queensland.
In Queensland the wide band
of country commandeered by the
pear extended as far west as
Charleville, and included much
of the fertile black earth of the
famous Darling Downs. By
1925 the pear had seized and
rendered useless 60,000,000 acres
from Maitland, in New South
Wales, to Nebo in Queensland,
and it was advancing at the rate
of a million acres a year.
A native of Mexico, thriving
in the desert, the plant was
equipped to resist dry, hot con-
ditions. It had an extensive
surface-root system and enlarged,
flat, pear-shaped stems ; its wide-
spreading roots gathered
moisture during a wet spell, and
the moisture could be stored for
long periods in the fleshy stems.
And the plant had an armor of
thorns and spines to protect it
against grazing animals.
Experiments were conducted
by professional experts, and by
individual landholders. Plant-
poisons were tested, and while
some killed tl;e plant, the
quantities needed and the pro-
hibitive cost made their practical
application possible only on small
areas. Mechanical control was
out of the question.
The Federal Government
established a Commonwealth
Prickly-pear Board in 1920, and
its personnel included some of
the top plant and animal
scientists of the time. Experi-
mental stations and laboratories
were equipped.
There was nothing romantic
about the routines that accom-
panied the scientific investigation
of this problem: painstaking col-
lection of data, minute botanical
and zoological studies, explora-
tory laboratory tests, and then
tedious field-experiments, all
making up a series of time-
consuming but carefully con-
ceived projects. Entomologists,
botanists, plant-pathologists, and
other experts, were working
together in an attempt to find the
answer to a problem that was
approaching the order of a
national calamity.
Very quickly, however, one
fact emerged. Texas, the West
Indies, South Africa, Mexico and
Uruguay were the natural homes
of members of the cactus family,
such as the tiger-pear, the spiny-
pest pear, the tree-pear and the
white-spined pear. It was found
that these plants were subject in
their natural environments to
attack by a number of insects
anA diseases, and, as a result,
the pear was kept in some sort
of balance with the rest of
nature. In Australia the pear
had been introduced without a
single natural enemy.
The conclusion was drawn
that the most profitable way to
approach the problem of the
control of prickly-pear was by
the introduction of some of its
natural enemies from other
countries.
In all of the sciences there have
always been men of vision, and
such a man was Henry Tryon, the
Queensland Government Ento-
mologist, who foresaw the
menace of prickly-pear, and who
advocated its control by bio-
logical measures as early as 1899:
I Scientists from the newly
established Prickly-pear Board
went overseas to the countries
where species of pear existed,
and studies were carried out on
the pests and diseases of the
plant. Little hope was held for
the control of the pear by
diseases, and study was concen-
trated mainly on its insect
enemies.
A comprehensive survey
revealed that there were no fewer
than 140 insects which naturally
preyed on members of the cactus
family. The life-histories of these
insects were studied in detail in
the United States, and the insects
were carefully tested to ensure
that they were unable to attack
plants of economic value.
With that done, the insect
colonies were shipped to Aus-
tralia for the next stage of the
programme. Work of this type
and on this scale had never been
attempted before, and one
problem after another had to be
solved before the insect colonies
arriving in Australia , were
acclimatised, multiplied, and
finally tested under laboratory-
and field-conditions.
The officer in charge of these
investigations was Alan P. Dodd,
Among the other insects he had
come upon on his overseas survey
in 1924, Dodd was interested in
some caterpillars he found feed-
ing on prickly-pear in the
province of Entre Rios in the
Argentine. From these cater-
pillars he hired a brown moth,
about an inch long. The moth
was nothing much to look at.
He identified it as Cactoblastis
cactorum. From the adult moths
he collected 3000 eggs and these
were consigned to Brisbane.
This was the turning-point in
the fight against prickly-pear in
Australia.
, Millions of eggs of the
Cactoblastis insect were
laboratory-reared and -tested,
and then dispatched to country
areas for field-experiments. The
results exceeded the scientists’
hopes. The caterpillars ate the
insides out of the pear, leaving
mere shells. Of equal import-
ance, the insects had acclimatised
themselves rapidly and multiplied
at a phenomenal rate.
The tide had turned. The
invader from the desert was
forced to retreat, and fertile tracts
of cultivable land were rewon
from what had become jungles of
pear. Cactoblastis kept on work-
ing, and an area of land
equivalent in size to that of
Great Britain was reclaimed for
agricultural and pastoral
purposes.
The Queensland scientists had
written a new chapter in the text-
books of botany and entomology.
The control of prickly-pear in
Australia is accepted as the out-
standing example in the world of
the biological control of a plant
pest.
Today the prickly - pear
problem is just something that
the older cattle-men and grain-
growers talk about occasionally
as they sip their beer, and look
out contentedly at the brigalow
and the belah and the red river-
gums.
One might think that there
were lessons to be learnt from
this campaign, lessons that would
not be forgotten, that never again
would a foreign cactus monster
be allowed to threaten a signi-
ficant part of our agriculture.
But in the northern cattle-
country around Collinsville (Q.)
there is a similar story unfolding
today. Years ago somebody
threw a flower-pot over a garden-
fence. The flower-pot contained
a Harrisia cactus. Now there are
thousands of acres of an
impenetrable cactus jungle
advancing on a 60-mile front.
The Harrisia cactus has a great
tap-root the prickly-pear did not
have, and its distribution is aided
by parrots and other birds that
carry its seed far and wide. To
the south and the south-west new
infestations are well under way.
Experts say that the Harrisia
cactus may constitute an even
more threatening menace than
did the prickly-pear. And there
may not be an insect like the
Cactoblastis to solve the problem
this time.
The backroom boys in their
long white coats are starting to
sweat again.
Raymond Sandison.
Salt and Barley
“Hordeum”: Few experi-
ments have been carried out in
Australia on the best crops for
saline soils. In experiments re-
cently made by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture barley was
found to have a higher degree
of tolerance to salt than 70 other
crops tested.
Some varieties of barley were
observed to be more salt-toler-
ant than others, the best in this
regard producing 100 bushels of
grain per acre when irrigated
with water containing a salt
concentration half that of sea-
water. The crop is most sensi-
tive at the seedling stage.
Salt problems are encoun-
tered on some parts of the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
and on some wheat country in
Western Australia ; also on land
bordering tidal waters.
Nitrogen Fixation
“T.P.”: Most farmers nowa-
days know something about the
role played by legumes in fixing
nitrogen in the air, and making
it available in the form of plant-
food. On the practical level,
ancient .civilisations recognised
the value of legumes in improv-
ing the fertility of the soil. Why
—the part played by nodules on
the roots of leguminous plants
—was not known until the latter
part of the 19th century. The
nodules develop only when the
roots are invaded by soil-
bacteria (genus Rhizohium),
which are able to live in a state
of symbiosis with the plant, as
well as freely in the soil. It is
the bacteria that actually do
the job.
These basic facts are well
known. But an article in a
recent C.5.1.R.0. publication
points out that the processes of
invasion of the roots by nitro-
gen-fixing bacteria, and the sub-
sequent development of nodules,
are highly complex. Research is
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
ffi® ■ ■
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Ouaranteed.
This, self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
-
- Til
f
YOU CAN INSTAt. IT I
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
1 DISTRIBUTORS
Q’LAND;
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.;
TAS.;
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston,
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St..
Auckland,
d
S X-- - ~~
mmm.
m
r
m
W% !
I&£s,
(lid m i
g^o
/ /
m
*$ A Vr~rrr
*>,
2SF
-<*■£. ■■■
H
m
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes ...
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
• Wall and roof sheets of curved design,
eliminating need for framework.
• Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 feet. Width, 10 feet.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 feet.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE
ALL PRICES EX
NEWCASTLE WORKS
::i! : V
Front wall (to taKe
double doors), £l3.
Double Doors
(S' x 6'6" opening),
£ll/10/-.
Barge boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" open ; np\
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' x 20, £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to;
LYSAGXXT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.. CAPITAL CITIES
L*»
continuous, and “more informa-
tion on the fundamental reac-
tions between the bacteria and
host-species is urgently needed.”
Fairly early in the piece it was
known that if the nodules were
absent, or ineffective, the
leguminous plant would get its
nitrogen from the soil, like any
other plant. And, since legumin-
ous plants use a lot of nitrogen,
under these conditions reserves
of soil-nitrogen could be drained
heavily.
More recently it has been
shown that nodule-development
and -activity can be affected by
mineral nutrition, and by con-
ditions of growth of the host-
plant. Calcium and phosphorus
play an important part. Phos-
phorus helps to maintain the
population of bacteria in the soil
at a high level, and also stimu-
lates the motility of bacteria, so
that they can move more readily
through the soil to the roots.
Calcium is important for the
nutrition of both plant and bac-
teria. Liming has a twofold
action, and, in the light of re-
cent work, seems necessary for
effective nodulation of clover on
some acid soils in the southern
tablelands of N.S.W.
Nitrogen-fixation doesn’t take
place unless the nodule is ade-
quately supplied with molyb-
denum ; it seems that this ele-
ment is involved in some way in
the actual fixation-process.
Molybdenum is now known to
be deficient in a number of the
more acid soils in southern Aus-
tralia. For subterranean-clover,
on such soils, add about loz.
molybdenum-trioxide per acre.
A number of distinct species
of nodule bacteria occur in the
soil. Each species can infect
only a particular group of re-
lated legumes. The boundaries
of these cross - inoculation
groups, as they are called, are
not always rigidly defined, but in
spite of this they provide a con-
venient means of differentiating
the species within the genus
Rhizobium : that is, the nitrogen-
fixing bacteria.
Within each Rhizobium
speeies there are a number of
different strains. Although
these can invade all the legume
species comprising the particular
cross-inoculation group to which
they belong, their ability to form
effective nitrogen-fixing nodules
may vary. Some strains are
quite ineffective in fixing nitro-
gen on all hosts, others are suc-
cessful with some, ineffective
with others. Even within the
one plant-species it has been
found that individual plants
vary in response to a single
bacterial strain.
Plants infected with ineffec-
tive strains can usually be recog-
nised by the presence of very
large numbers of vestigia]
nodules. The plants that have
“taken” have fewer and larger
nodules. Ineffective strains are
as readily established in the
plants as effective strains, but
fail to develop. They are im-
portant, because they compete
with effective strains. Ineffec-
tive strains are common in cer-
tain soils—for instance,, in up-
land pastures in the U.K. Where
they are dominant it may be
difficult to establish an effective
strain in the soil (by sowing
inoculated seed). Studies in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere have shown
that “good” strains vary in their
competitive ability. Some are
better able than others to estab-
lish and compete in the presence
of less effective strains.
Nodule bacteria—in culture in
the laboratory and in the field—
sporadically give rise to variants
which have lost their capacity to
infect the host. These are known
as non-symbiotic or avirulent
forms, and are important be-
cause they compete with other
strains in the soil, and may even
suppress strains which have
been introduced.
Results to date indicate that
it may no longer be sufficient
for the grower to get a strain of
bacteria effective on the species
of host to be inoculated. It will
be necessary to see that the
introduced bacteria are able to
establish themselves in the soil;
that plant and bacteria get on
well together; and that this
desirable state is maintained, or
improved, by general manage-
ment of the crop.
Crosscuts
Sydney Royal Show, 1955,
will be held on 10 days and
eight nights, April 1 to April 12.
« * *
Reports from the U.S. indi-
cate that female hormone, given
to steers in pellet form, signifi-
cantly increases weight and feed-
efficiency. At lowa Experiment
Station steers on diethylstil-
bestrol (11 milligrams per head
per day) for 112 days showed a
25 per cent, increase in weight
over control-pen steers.
* * *
Kyogle (N.S.W.) has been
selected as first district to be
treated for special control of
cattle - tick because of the
presence of arsenic-resistant tick
in that district (R. M. Watts,
chairman. Board of Tick Con-
trol). Arsenical dips will be used
in other areas, unless arsenic-
resistant ticks are discovered
there. B.H.C. will be used at
Kyogle.
* * *
Australian Pig Society is seek-
ing a subsidy of 6d. a pound
on pigmeats for export to U.K.
pending a grant of 4s. a bushel
on wheat for stock-feed.
Agents’ commission on pigs
sold at Homebush (N.S.W.) is 5
per cent.; for sheep and cattle,
2j per cent. Pig-men haye been
having a lean time lately, and
recently their association put it
up to the agents to reduce their
commission. Agents, in reply,
“took note of the society’s con-
tention that sheep and cattle
were sold at a lower rate of com-
mission than pigs,” .but “the true
position based on the selling-
agents’ experience is that the
commission rates on sheep and
cattle are far too low.”
* * #
A week after derationing of
meat in England the Minister for
Food was asked (in the House
of Commons) if he would con-
sider reimposing price-control
“in view of price increases since
derationing.”
« ♦ *
Limit of 55 million acres on
U.S. wheat sown for 1955 is a
fairly sharp reduction, when
compared with the limit of 63
million acres for this year’s har-
vest, and the (unrestricted) 1953
harvest of 78 million acres. Most
farmers, in the opinion of a
“New York Times” writer, con-
sider the measures painful but
inevitable; but “for many
farmers, particularly those in the
Dust Bowl area, the new order
would make it more difficult for
them to recoup losses-they have
suffered for the last two years
because of the drought.”
“Cross-compliance” is another
aspect; substitute-crops may be
limited by similar acreage-allot-
ments. Failure to comply with
any of the Government rulings
on acreage means that the
grower cannot participate in any
phase of the price-support pro-
gramme. As things stand in U.S.
agriculture, a pretty formidable
sanction.
* * «
Several months ago, and from
time to time since then, the
Queensland Cane Growers’
Council expressed concern at the
prospects of effective labor for
the canecutting season. Accord-
ing to recent reports from Innis-
fail, some of these doubts and
apprehensions were well-
grounded. Growers weren’t
happy about inexperienced
canecutters who had to be sup-
plied with clothing as well as
food ; some didn’t wait for their
first pay.
* ♦ ♦
“Sawyer”; Arsenic - com -
pounds for control of weeds on
tennis-courts and the like (B.
28/7/’54) are as dead as the
dodo. A mixture of two-parts
sodium-chlorate with one of
borax (added as a fire-preven-
tive), at the rate of 4jlh. per
100 sq. ft., or borax alone at
81b. to 121 b. for an area of the
same size, is better. The latest
chemical to appear in America
for giving effective sterilisation
to soil for a period of two years
or more is C.M.U., applied at
the rate of l£oz. to 3oz. per
100 sq. ft.
Tests by Victorian Lands
Department with the Du Pont
product, 80 per cent. C.M.U.,
show good results in control of
Cape-tulip. A small number of
bulbs germinated after 12 months,
but J. E. Tesch, of Mobile Indus-
trial Equipment (Australian
agents), points out that these may
have been buried very deep;
that C.M.U. will only work
when growing roots are present,
and that it is possible that these
plants did not germinate during
the period of the test.
♦ * *
Queensland Government is
sending a man overseas to study
cattle-tick.'
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Weather during the Brisbane Show illustrated very well
the cyclical system of prediction.
Later weather should be fine and frosty, with a recur-
rence of winter weather early in September.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Made in Australia
Why don’t other States rally behind
Victoria and support its Made-in-Australia
Week?
I have just travelled around the
country cities of Victoria, through small
boroughs and into settlements with
mixed-stores. Rarely was there a win-
dow which was not plugging the Made-
in-Australia theme. Schoolchildren were
being taken over factories. Made-in-
Australia exhibitions were held in some
of the schools and parents invited to see
them.
It was a spontaneous State-wide
response to the appeal to boost Australian
goods, and it succeeded. Radio-stations
and newspapers supported the Week, and
most stores reported a boost to trading.
The campaign, sponsored by the Vic-
torian Chamber of Manufactures, costs
about £lO,OOO a year—not very much
considering it is State-wide,
There is, however, no co-operation be-
tween States. N. S. Wales, which leads
the Commonwealth in secondary in-
dustry, has done little or nothing in the
past few years, although before the war
its Australian-made Preference League
did some good work.
Victoria, on the other hand, has sup-
ported the Made-in-Australia campaign
since it began in 1923. South Australia
and Queensland, both rapidly expanding
their secondary industries, have held
first-class trade-fairs in support of Aus-
tralian goods, but have not gone much
beyond that.
Australian secondary industry is just
on 100 years old, yet it is still fighting
as hard.as ever against buyer-prejudice
towards Australian-made goods. That
prejudice, stemming from the poor-quality
goods of the early days, is out-of-date
now.
The market is at present again being
flooded with overseas goods, much of
them of poor quality. Australian fac-
tories are turning out goods equal in their
class to any imported; their continued
success depends on the support of Aus-
tralian buyers. The Associated Chambers
of Manufactures, with its headquarters
in Melbourne, could well sponsor a
nation-wide campaign.—J. B, R. (Vic.).
The Future of Reading
Under the above heading the “West
Australian” recently quoted from E. B.
White’s The Second Tree From the
Corner :—
One college president has remarked that
in 50 years “only 5 per cent, of the people
will be reading.” For this, of course, one
must be prepared. But how prepare? To
us it ..would seem that even if only one
person out of 150 million should continue as
a reader, he would be the one worth saving,
the nucleus around which to found a uni-
versity.
The future of reading seems indeed
black if “one must be prepared” for such
a small number of readers in such a short
time; but it is probably near the mark.
The advent of TV, I’m afraid, is certain
to reduce the reading public, as it already
seems to have done overseas. How can
any reading be done in a household
whose sitting-room is given over every
night to the blackout essential for TV-
watching?
It’s a disastrous thing, this possible
decay of the art of reading—of book-
reading in particular, but also of maga-
zine- and newspaper-reading. We have
more leisure, but do less reading and, as
a consequence probably, think less.
Films, radio, TV and comics are the main
causes of this reading-decline. These
entertainment-mediums all have their
place in the complex modem life; but
our culture must not be based solely on
them.
Audio-visual devices (quoting E. B.
White again) “ask no discipline of the
mind and are already giving the room
[i.e., where there is TV] the languor of
an opium-parlor”; there must inevitably
be mental laziness if not sterility.
Real* and lasting acquisition of know-
ledge is unattainable without books
Civilisation as we know it would be im-
possible without the printed word. (Even
these would-be “audio-visual” sup-
planters of books could not have been
produced in the first place without printed
matter.) The writing—and, necessarily,
the reading—of literature must remain
one of the hallmarks of our culture.
It may be necessary to re-inculcate the
reading habit. Regular book-weeks and
library-weeks would help, and schemes
such as that run by the Nashville (U.S.)
Public Library. In Nashville the library
has instituted miniature libraries in three
of the large food-stores; shoppers can
take a book home and keep it for a cer-
tain time free of charge (there is a fine
for keeping ’em out longer). About 60,000
books are circulated in this way annually.
—Maros (W.A.).
The Nauruans
Sometimes coral islands in the Pacific
disappear in a hydrogen mist, or in a
volcanic explosion, but the phosphatic
island of Nauru is fated to disappear
more gradually—as its deposits are
whittled away to enrich the paddocks of
Australia.
For 70 years the islanders have bene-
fited from royalties, but they and their
“I don't give a damn WHAT it says—there are such things as
printers' errors."
protectors, the Australian Department of
Territories, are now wondering what will
happen when the deposits are exhausted,
about the end of this century.
Territories Minister Paul Hasluck said
the other day that the Government had
been possible ways of giving
the Nauruans’ living standard a sound
economic basis, and was anxious that
the Nauruan people should themselves
share in the decision on the future of
their race —which might mean the trans-
fer of all or some of them to a place
with better opportunities for primary
and secondary industry.
There could be argument in favor of
Australian farmers showing some interest
in this long-range project. After all, the
Nauruans have put millions of pounds
into farmers’ pockets. It should not be
impossible for producers’ organisations
to prepare and finance some scheme
which could set the future Nauruans up
as independent and successful citizens in
some other portion of our island terri-
tories —perhaps on some unsettled coastal
area of New Guinea.
Any such move would need careful
thought and planning, and an assurance
of peaceful assimilation with native
residents of the area, but it could be an
impressive demonstration to the world
of Australia’s concern for its own
colored peoples.— Mugga Way (A.C.T.).
%
Exchange
A Sydney firm, whose account for 255.
I paid by cheque, without adding 6d.,
exchange, in 1952, has been billing me'*
for the 6d. at quarterly intervals ever
since. I sent them a zack’s-worth of
stamps last week, because such per-
sistence deserves reward.
My reaction to that request at the foot
of most accounts —“Please add exchange
to country cheques”—is not to. “Country
cheques,” mark you! It’s just another
little slug for the man who has the
temerity to try to earn his living in the
bush instead of joining the “drift to the
city.” He cops exchange both ways, for
no city agent or broker thinks of adding
it to his cheques in payment for country
products sent willy-nilly to our centralised
city markets.
It goes less against the grain to add
two- or three-bob exchange to a large
cheque than sixpence to a small one—
the man paying an account for £25 is
mulcted only of sixpence, whereas pay-
ment of ten small accounts of a pound or
two each can run him into five-bob.—
Hist. (N.S.W.).
Goldmining
The point I was trying to make with
“Queue d’Argent” (B. 14/7/’54) is that
the present declining state of Westralian
goldmining is due solely to the narrow-
ing gap between the price of gold and
the cost of getting it; a gap between
forces too strong to be wedged apart by
Government handouts.
For the last 15 years the one has
remained immovably fixed while the
other has inexorably increased. Short
of re-equipping the entire industry with
the most up-to-date plant obtainable at
an unimaginable cost, no amount of
Federal and State handouts can vitally
reduce mining- and treatment-costs. It
is even doubtful whether an enormous
project such as that would have the
necessary reducing effect; award-rates
and working-hours have something to do
with it, too.
Aid for the industry should (and in
many cases could have) come from
within the industry.
In a case of fire, flood, or the like,
immediate State aid is perhaps justified
and necessary on a loan basis, but in this
case “Q.” is not asking for help to mend
a broken machine which, once mended,
will again produce in etfiecient abund-
ance ; he is, in effect, asking for the dole
until the price of gold goes up. That’s the
broad and easy road to nationalisation,
“Q.” raises the same cry for the pros-
pector: “Handout! Handout!” Gold is
now, as it always has been, where you
find it. Rolls-Royces and autobahnen
"It's about time you got one of your own."
don’t make it any easier to find; merely
easier to get to when it is found.
A cursory study of the history of gold-
seeking, including accounts of Jason,
Pizarro and the Klondyke, should indi-
cate that there is no obstacle big enough
to stop men looking for it; but a man’s
only got to say that Bayley and Ford, and
the others who founded the Westralian
industry, neither asked for nor got hand-
outs and he’s called reactionary.
It was no insinuation of mine that
the modern prospector lacked the guts
and tenacity of the ’nineties men. If
motor-trucks with power-take-offs and
power-tools had been available to them
no doubt Bayley and co. would have used
them in preference to horses and ham-
mer-and-tap, but when “Q.” says that the
modern prospector regards the small
kero.-frig. as being important almost as
the rock-drill he is describing a man on
a holiday-trip.
It is unwise to speak of the price of
gold “logically” following prices of other
commodities. Perhaps there is no more
senseless, illogical or illusory occupation
in the whole world than that of mining
for gold. With a coalmine you see the
result of men’s work in the thousands of
tons of solid, heat-giving coal. You see
the result of a year’s work on a wheat-
farm in the long rakes of trucks at the
sidings or in the great silos; on a station
in the baled fleece of 40,000 sheep; and
so on through industry: something shows.
Then you turn to a goldmine and look
at the fruit of the strivings of 500 men
for a month —two little bars of soft, yellow
metal no bigger than your boots, and,
outside the artificial, abstract World of
finance, almost completely useless. How
can stuff like that have a “logical” price?
It is hard to see in what ways the gold-
fields people get a rough spin from their
Governments; it was even harder to see
during the depression and immediately
after, when the boom was on. I know it
is irritating to find that people bora and
bred on the ’fields don’t seem to notice
the “heat, dust, and flies” ; I know it is
difficult to convince people they’re being
robbed when they can’t see what they're
missing; but if “Q.” wants a clear indi-
cation of how keenly the goldfielder feels
the lack of amenities enjoyed by the
workers in the capital cities he should
observe closely the actions of one on
arrival in say, Perth, or, better still, Mel-
bourne. The first thing he does is to
make sure of his transport back to Kal-
goorlie, and then he probably goes and
buys a calendar.
Historical note: “Q.’s” assertion that
in all history mining has been the fore-
runner of pastoral and agricultural in-
terests is preposterous —in Westralia’s
case particularly so.
During the ’fifties and ’sixties
the expeditions of Lefroy, Austin.
Hunt and many others walked all
over the future goldfields, reporting
new pastures, opening-up stock-routes,
and drawing the sheep further and fur-
ther east. Sandalwood was being cut out
of goldfields areas before Hannan and
Bayley were born. — Edx (Vic.).
Hire-purchase Ills
N. S. Wales is not alone in its troubles
with hire-purchase. Victorian retailers,
many of them without a thought for the
future, are now using a number of
“stunts” to get more t.-p. business.
The most conspicuous practitioners
are sellers of radios, refrigerators and
washing-machines—normally one estab-
lishment handles all three lines. “Stunts"
include the easy radio- or telephone-quiz
for a “prize.”
There’s a lot for and a lot against t.-p.
—it has been a popular subject of debate
for almost half a century. Unless watched
closely, however, it can do more harrn
than good. Here is the opinion of the
N. S. Wales Radio and Electrical Re-
tailers’ Association:
The volume of that [hire-purchase] business
is now so large that it is an important factor
in our national economy. In the event 0
aggravating
anc i accelerating what economist Colin Clark
has described as the “uncontrollable chain-
reaction” by which a slight slump blows up
in ° a u epression.
R OTHJAY (Vic).


R i » lUp
Bankers College
It is not so many yeais ag
dmg financiers joining & hmk m Aus-
traha (at the princely ® al f fh
year) saw the | way cleat-ini front_of them
cLnL B Tr"g 8 U were greater than
they are today. The route followed was
usually via the ledgerkeeper’s stool, and
there were no such embarrassing hurdles
as university degrees and so forth.
How different is the prospect now!
“I hope you don't mind, but I'm in an awful hurry."
The number of trading banks is less
than half, with a corresponding
reduction in the number of g.~m. chairs,
and much more is now required of pros-
pective occupants of those chairs than a
good knowledge of “the bank’s system.”
In that respect an important milestone
has been reached with the establishment
of the Bankers’ Administrative Staff Col-
lege for Executives, which is controlled
by a council of the chief executive officers
of certain of the banks.
The aim is to provide top-management
training for specially selected men.
Methods of study, and the like, are simi-
lar to those used so successfully by the
Administrative Staff College established
at Henley (Eng.) in 1948 for the training
of businessmen.
Subjects such as the economies of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, money and
credit, international banking and finance,
advanced banking problems and con-
structive administration, with all the sub-
sidiary features embraced in those head-
ings, will be covered by a panel of im-
pressive lecturers, including such men as
Dr. H. C. Coombs, governor of the
Commonwealth Bank. Others will be
leading authorities in the banking and
commercial world, as well as business
consultants and specialists from the
universities.
The new move should be to the
advantage of all concerned. — Ceg (Vic.).
Piltdown Hoax
The exposure of “Piltdown-man” as an
elaborate, scientifically well-conceived
fake makes me wonder about a lot of
things we accept as facts.
The scientific and pseudo-scientific
books I read in my youth 20 years ago
all accepted, with little or no questioning,
Piltdown-man as a genuine creature. Sir
Arthur Keith, one of the then leading
anthropologists, in his Antiquity of Man
(published 1925, some 10 years after the
Jgutt and other parts had been found),
was convinced of its authenticity. It is
mor e than likely that many students and
writers, even perhaps some “experts,’
[rom (jme , 0 Ume go back t 0 these
hooks, ignorant of the true position,
Errors can thus be perpetuated per
haps for centuries. There are probably
innumerable instances m our histon 1,
scientific and other beliefs where an
original or a later-on-the-road opinion
is wrong or biased, but is taken for
granted by so many subsequent com-
mentators that it becomes accepted with-
out question.
In the case of the Piltdown exposure,
it’s probably not really a matter of much
practical concern; but there are pro-
bably other instances where the perpetu-
ation of such an error would be of real
importance. It points to the necessity for
original research and for check and re-
check.
And that, in fact, is how the Piltdown
business was exposed—by the long and
painstaking efforts of British scientific
research-workers. — Kros (S.A.).
Mixed Drinking
Reams have been written in my drink-
ing lifetime on our pubs, but isn’t one
great shortcoming of this otherwise fine
Australian industry the absence of
women from bars?
I don’t want to start anything—have
a public bar, too, if you like, for the
bloke who is shy or paying alimony—
but what could be nicer than the
atmosphere of the hotels in the heart of
sophisticated London, with the boys and
girls from the offices sitting around with
their pints or standing at the bar to-
gether?, And the chef at one end carving
the ham and watching the sizzling
sausages.
Men are more restrained and normal
when the company is mixed, and the
public house becomes more of a club. —
John G. (N.S.W.).
Oranges
Returning from a tour of the Mildura-
Renmark fruit districts, I found in a
town about 70 miles from Melbourne
oranges selling at 4d. and sd. each. It
was fruit rejected in the packing-sheds
as not up to “standard”-grade because of
leaf- and other marks ; otherwise it was
good in every respect.
When I queried the price the shop-
keeper produced the invoice from his
wholesaler—3Bs. a case—so there could
be no quarrel with him on the reasonable
profit he was making. What intrigued
me was the wholesale price of 38s. a case,
when, a few days previously, 1 had been
offered the same fruit in Renmark at 6s.
a case. Certainly the fruit had e
earned from Renmark, but a jump of
nearly 700 per cent, seemed a bit too
thick for that.—C. (Vic.).
__ ,
Money and Effort
“Parram’ (B. 21/7/ 54) describes as
“wicked nonsense the old saw money is
the root of all evil. By ailing o give
the entire quotation he deprives the
originator of the statement of his mean-
ing, and gives an interpretation quite
foreign to the one intended.
What Paul wrote to Timothy in the
original Greek is translated in the
Authorised Version as “The love of
money is the root of all evil.” The
Revised Version says “The love of money
is a root of all kinds of evil.”
The important point is that it is not
money, as such, but an inordinate love
of it that he regards as evil. The Greek
verb is intended to convey the meaning,
“loving it with an affection that belongs
only to persons and not things: an
attachment that amounts to lust, exclud-
ing all nobler things.” Sacerdos
(N.S.W.).
_ .
Telegraph Operators
One possible reason for the P.M.G.
Department’s fondness for machine-
systems (B. 7/7/’54) is the decline in
telegraph-operating standards. Since the
war—that is, since the last of the ex-
service telegraphists were brought in—
the department has intensified its train-
ing-programme, sending groups of junior
postal officers to school for a year to
learn telegraphy and postal work (which,
of course, includes telegraphy).
These schools are not particularly suc-
cessful from the Morse angle. Boys are
passed for duty on channels ranging, in
W.A., from the lines to Port Hedland and
Wyndham (two of the longest and hard-
est manual circuits in the world), to quiet
country circuits where heavy traffic is
rare. Often enough they make a hash of
both.
What’s wrong? Well, to be a good
operator requires no small degree of skill,
and constant practice to keep up to the
game. Some men are born operators —
they have the sense of rhythm and timing
essential for making good signals. The
rest can acquire those essentials if their
early training is good—and there’s the
rub.
Boys passing out of training-schools
] cnow their regulations by heart, but too
o f ten they haven’t a clue on how to sit
correc ßv a t an operating position so that
wr j sts do the work without strain —
s i gna i s are bad because their
gdou j ders elbows, wrists, fingers and
* . ’ n wor Vj ng at the same time
™tiL
A “ d that s p °° r instruction.
I was taught telegraphy in the Navy, a
pretty hard school. Before we were
allowed near a key we had to “sing”
Morse at 10-12 words-per-minut©; then
we were considered fit to start from
scra t c b on sending and receiving, with
j y nx -eyed warrant-officers to pick out and
3 f r A a*. * a \
correct faults. Accuracy first and always,
speed later. Entry into the postal-train-
ing-schools however, is dependent on
pass | n B a 17-w.-p.-m. test By that time
tde * ads dav ® 50 self-taught errors
of style that few can ever overcome them,
result is that, as more and mo [s
are turned out to muddle around with
, traffic > the standard gets progressively
1 ower
, . ... „
But machine-systems like Tress and
the Hunter Valley network aren t the
answer. The only solution is lor the
department to adopt a more realistic
approach to telegraph problems and get
manual operating back on its fefet. ihere
was a tm e when a P.M.G. operator was
regarded as the last word in telegraph
efficiency. He could be again—must be,
in fact, if the public is to escape the steep
increases in charges that must follow
Tress.—V. J. H. (W.A.).
Car Insurance
“Mullum” (B. 7/7/’54) apparently
hasn’t had the experience of finding his
parked car stove-in by some careless
imbecile who has done a flit. The greater
percentage of drivers have never Jr ad an
accident while driving, yet they lose their
premium rebates through claiming insur-
ance on such damage.
In view of that, “Mullum’s” suggestion
that a driver should pay £25 before the
insurance company accepted any liability
is an unreasonable demand on the good
driver. It would be much cheaper for
him to pay for repairs himself, as many
big firms are doing already under the
existing system.
Any solution to the road-accident
problem should not be at the expense of
the careful and experienced driver. —
J.M.B. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 291
Across
I—A1 —A short day in the heart of a
N.S.W. town flyer hurts re-
arranged willow wood. (8)
s—Hardy career may be expected
with this plant. (6)
9—Like to wait for a beer in a
Melbourne beach resort? (9)
10— Attila takes the favorite nothings
away from Hopetoun. (3)
11 — This guy is a famous fellow in
cancer research. (3)
13 — It helps us to reduce Parliament.
(4)
14 — Ctobe halved Mimi to be with
the doctor two months from now.
(3-7)
16 — A couple of directions for a corny
beard. (3)
17 — A student may take this conti-
nental cookery place for racing
chevaux. (6, 6)
20 —Cheerful out-cricketer who made
99 in his first Test. (12)
23 —A pin usually displayed by a pin-
up. (3)
25 —This gives little Obadiah the only
trial which is most out of use. (10)
27 — Put up with Teddy. (4)
28— Raining. (3)
30 — Pronoun. (3)
31— Disseminate support by the
entrance. (9)
32 — The mug is badly ruffed. (6)
33 — This French regime with an azure
colour in a Lucerne arrangement.
(8)
Down
1 — He lodges the swine with the
German. (7)
2 Cape gives advice about betting
on the favorite. (6)
3 This bone would have to be
broken for the moon goddess. (4)
4 Supplier of paper and pencils has
run over the Queen. (9)
6 Wagnerian dog’s performance
suggests precisely how to kill a
tree. (8)
7 Lucifer is dropping if the north-
east Swiss city is fodder. (7)
8— Nippy aircraft for nothing? (4)
10 —The world’s best car on the
equator offers pastrycookery for
a cold day. (3, 5)
12—You go over the West and South
trees. (4)
15—-King George and possibly Cleo-
patra’s wrestles. (8)
18— Greets Franchot with precipita-
tion. (9)
19— A dead giant is an outsize dope.
(3, 5)
20— A number had acted the goat
when a number moo to Kelly. (7)
21 — How can a male exist with the
Goddess of Youth? (4)
22—A Queensland cricket goes over
the legside to make any town age
sprout. (7)
24—A joint consumed by a papal
ambassador. (6)
26 —Drink up, there’s nothing above
these. (4)
29 —Tuba knocked about by a pro-
hibition. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 290


A
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikmon St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Mary vale and Broad ford ( Vic .),
Botany ( N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which hove
been planted out.
By wise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest, areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Mary vale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality. -
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been, planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
I ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat The current
I eduction for all purposes is at
e rate of about 450,000 tons a
iar.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
rovide an example of decen-
alisation. In addition to the
iills in the Melbourne area, it
as the pulp and paper mill at
laryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ird, a brown coal open cut at
acchus Marsh and pine part-
itions and eucalyptus forests in
lippsland. The company has
uilt some 800 houses for its
mployees in the towns of
raralgon, Morwell, Broadford.
Vers and others.
In the defence of Australia
VP.M. has an important role,
slot only were its products for
vrapping and packaging required
o the full during the last war.
rut the company also produced
)000 tons of dissolving pulps from
line for the manufacture of
jxplosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
bad to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
5Vz MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has*
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W, and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
