

THE HOUSE
fed
OF SEPP E L T
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
-
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3875
THE FEDERAL ELECTIONS
Wednesday, May 19, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IMMENSE AND STATELY.
AUDLEY END IS NOW
AN ANCIENT MONUMENT
THE largest and finest of the stately homes
in the County of Essex is Audley End,
which James I described as too large for a
king, “but it might do very well fox a Lord
Treasurer,” the office then held by the owner.
Audley End, near Saffron Walden, stands
upon the site of a Benedictine Abbey which
was given by Henry VIII in 1538 to Sir Thomas
Audley, from whom the house takes its name.
The estate passed to his descendant, Thomas
Howard, who enjoyed the favor of James I,
became the first Earl of Suffolk and amassed a
fortune. He commissioned the architect John
Thorpe to design the great mansion and spent
£200,000 on its erection—the equivalent to-day
of several million pounds. At that time it was
regarded as the largest house which had then
been built in England.
Although Audley End has been greatly
reducfed in size since those early days it is
still an immense building and it has retained
its Jacobean style in spite of alterations made
by later owners. This unity of style is one
of the remarkable features of Audley End.
In 1668 Charles II visited Audley End and
a year later bought the estate for £50,000,
although there is some doubt as to whether the
money was actually paid. In 1701 the fifth
Earl of Suffolk was allowed to re-establish
himself in the seat of hjs ancestors but the
great palace was now too big for a less flam-
boyant generation. The outer courtyard was
demolished and later this was followed by the
eastern side of the inner court. The great
architect Sir John Vanbrugh was engaged to
remodel the Great Hall and a fortune was
spent in successive restorations.
Audley End, by sale and inheritance, passed
in 1762 to Lord Howard de Walden, and later
Lord Braybrooke, who spent £lOO,OOO on further
restoration work, much of which was done
by Robert Adam, The suite of rooms he
decorated remains as a splendid example of
this great artist’s work.
In 1950, this great mansion was bought by
the Ministry of Works and is now preserved for
future generations as an ancient monument.
It is open to the public on certain days of the
week and here can be seen a fine library, the
original furniture and a valuable collection
of pictures.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard .and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(5.8.1054) AGE
The Red Page
ECONOMICS AND HISTORY
The years leading up to self-govern-
ment in Tasmania are one of the most
cultivated plots of Australian history.
Governors Arthur, Franklin and Eardley-
Wilmot have received much modern atten-
tion from biographers and monograph-
ists; in The Struggle for Self-Govern-
ment in Tasmania, 1842-1856, W. A.
Townsley made a detailed survey of the
complicated politics of those stirring
times; and now in The Economic
Development of Van Diemen’s Land,
1820-1850 (Melbourne University Press),
R. M. Hartwell, Professor of Economic
History at the N. S. Wales University of
Technology, analyses what he calls the
“success story” of early Tasmania.
In his preface, Professor Hartwell tells
us that his attention, from a wide survey
of Australian trade-cycles before 1850,
became concentrated on the Tasmanian
scene because the all-over Austra-
lian scene became unmanageable: “I
attempted the detailed study of a small
unit over a short time.” The work is not
intended merely as an economic history,
but as an essay in method —as a per->
formance; and from the point of view
of an uneconomic reader, a very good
performance it is, and a fine piece of Aus-
tralian printing and book-making into
the bargain. (Though the price is no
bargain.)
In his first chapter, on “The Distribu-
tion of Land,” Professor Hartwell shows
what vast sums were lost to government
by land-grants and inability to collect
quit-rents. Governor Arthur gave away
a million acres in six years ; and when
instructed by Goderich in 1831 to end
grants, except such as had been pro-
mised, “manfully employed the last hours
of patronage,” in the words of the early
historian. West, by granting away a
quarter of a million acres: a phrase the
professor caps very neatly:
Whereas the Governor viewed the prob-
lem in part as an administrative one, the
colonists’ motives were purely economic....
And the same “purely economic” mo-
tives informed their attitude on quit-
rents, Denison reporting in 1847 that on
about 2,000,000 acres granted with quit-
rents only £21,000 had ever been col-
lected ; and as to leases:
Those wishing to lease land tendered for
occupation, and within a few months
200,000 acres were leased. The revenue thus
derived in 1828 was £llOO, but thereafter
it fell rapidly, because after 1828 rent was
not payable in advance.
And when told to quit leases, the
settlers did not scare easily; leased land
for the most part lying behind grants or
bought properties would be of little use
to any but the nearest landholder, and
could be bought easily if the Governfnent
put the lease up for auction.
The next chapter, on “Capitalists, Con-
victs and Workers,” is a masterpiece of
compression ; a survey of the interaction
of some 20,000 free-settlers and 60,000
convicts through the booms, depressions
and other changing circumstances of 30
years. When convict-labor was free there
was no employment-problem:
When all the indulgences associated with
convict-labor disappeared, and finally,
when a price was attached to it, the colon-
ists discovered that the moral taint (and
economic burden) of the convict system was
too hard to bear, that although they would
risk their reputations for pay, they could
not do so without gratuities.
' The turn-away from convict-labor
seems to have been aided by a change
of feeling not wholly economic. Hiring-
out of convict-“probationers” began in
September, 1842, at the beginning of the
terrible depression, but at that time
, the low wage paid to probationers in private
service (£9 a year) reacted against the free
laborer, and resulted in “a continual in-
crease in Pauperism.”
But following the depression, during
which destitute free men had worked for
nothing but their food, “after 1846, when
employment increased, the free laborers
were employed first and the ex-convicts
last.” Since wages for farm-servants were
£4O to £2O a year, with keep, and for
urban mechanics (skilled tradesmen)
12s. to ss. a day, probationers at £9 a
year were cheaper; but the amount of
work done by ex-convicts without suffi-
cient overseers and the characters of the
men, many of whom added “unnatural
crime” to more normal accomplishments
of this kind, turned the scales ; so that in
1847 a committee of the “Free Labor
Union” of employers and employees
“developed into a political body pro-
testing against transportation”; although
the attempt to include the interests of the
employer in a union predominantly aimed
at reducing the labor-supply was certain to
fail; some of the worker delegates objected
to the presence of the employers, while
some masters continued to employ pro-
bationers.
In succeeding chapters, Professor Hart-
well considers that “the import of capi-
tal” has been exaggerated, and that the
‘‘remarkable growth of the colony” was
“by its own efforts,” raising “doubts
about the stigma of exploitation which
has often been attached to the economic
relations between Australia and Great
Britain in this period”; he traces the
growth of Tasmania’s important wool
industry, with special attention to early
wool-marketing, gives the reasons for the
relative unimportance of farming in Tas-
mania, and chronicles the complete suc-
cess of bay-whalers and land-based sealers
in ridding Tasmania of whales and seals.
His chapter on manufactures mentions a
hat-factory (1824) and soap first made in
the early 1820’s ; while metal trades could
turn-out castings of three-hundredweight
in 1825, made the first marine steam-
engine in 1834, and cast a boiler 23ft. in
circumference, weighing 36cwt., in 1847.
In the section on shipbuilding he quotes
from Melville, writing in 1851, a curious
lurk:
A shipwright will, during the summer,
start off in a whaleboat, with a few tools
and stores, and men on a “lay”—that is,
workmen who are to become shareholders
in the craft to be built. The builders require
but few tools at starting; an axe or two,
and a crosscut saw, and a few files, will
perform wonders in the bush, when placed
in the hands of men who know how to
make use of them. Some favorable site is
chosen, a saw-pit made, the timber cut and
allowed to lie on the ground to season;
and then a spot is cleared for the stocks,
the keel is laid, and the ribs are lifted into
their places and the ground soon be-
comes covered with a huge monster for
the deep. As the vessel draws towards com-
pletion, some person will advance money,
holding the craft as security; with that
money, her fittings are purchased: and at
length completed, she arrives in the port,
where, being sold, the whole of the building-
party enjoy a “flare-up” for a time.
Next there is a chapter on “Internal
and External Trades,” and finally a
treatise on “Banking and Insurance,”
with remarks on Tasmanian currency and
coinage, and some insight into the expec-
tations of shareholders in those days;
Fifteen per cent, was a marginal rate of
dividend when considering a new enter-
prise. But if profits were high, so were
risks, and money commanded anything
from ten per cent, upwards, and often as
much as thirty per cent.
And insurance companies charged high
premiums and paid big dividends:
The Hobart Town and Launceston yielded
thirty per cent, in 1839, nothing in 1840,
but fifty per cent, and an increase in stock
of fifteen pounds for every five-pound share
in 1841, and fifty per cent, for ensuing
years. The Van Diemen’s Land had re-
turned the shareholders the whole of its
original capital by 1843, and paid regular
forty per cent, dividends. The Derwent and
Tamar did not declare a dividend below
fifty per cent., whilst the Cornwall paid
upwards of twenty per cent.
With these analyses of the Tasmanian
economy completed, Professor Hartwell
proceeds to his synthesis of the trade-
cycle which built up the boom that broke
in the depression of the early 1840’s, and
the factors which hauled the country out
of the depression in 1845. It is a slow
progression; a fall of wool-values in
London ; failure of Tasmania’s livestock-
markets on the Australian mainland; a
piling-up in Tasmanian shops of goods
imported on the flood of boom-time
optimism; the crash of speculative com-
panies formed to make money out of in-
flation ; the blind, continuing flow of
capital attracted by the good times;' the
depression; the climb out of it which
those at the head of affairs could hardly
bring themselves to believe in: Professor
Hartwell puts it all together from news-
papers of the time, from the letters of
Governors, and from the letters of capi-
talist leaders, especially of one Swanston,
who must have been of great service to
him.
There is a final chapter on “The Gov-
ernment and the Depression” which can
only increase the reader’s sympathy for
the much-vilified Eardiey-Wilmot: be-
tween the imperious British Administra-
tors and the colonists whose motives were
“purely economic,” the unfortunate
Governors seem to have conducted them-
selves with surprising patience and, for
the most part, wisdom.
All of which, says the Professor, illus-
trates a remark by the modern economist
W, W. Rostow to the effect that trade-
cycles “affect the timing of political events
and their coloring”;
The discontent with paternal government,
and with convict and land regulations over
which the colonists had no control, made
independence, sooner or later, certain.
The cause of the final opposition which
resulted in political self-determination,
however, was depression. Depression, by
causing the first major crisis in public
finance and the consequent “unconstitu-
tional” taxation by the Government, by
tnaking unworkable the probation system,
and by generally heightening tempers in a
period of reduced incomes, made self-
government necessary.
Fine Novel
E. Arnot Robertson is surely deserv-
ing of more attention than she has been
accorded in recent critical assessments of
the modern British novel. Perhaps her
work has been overlooked because she
has published little recently; her latest
book, Devices and Desires (Cape), appears
some ten years after its predecessor.
However, there must be many who
remember Four Frightened People and
Ordinary Families, published in the early
’thirties.
The post-war Balkans, Greece and
Jamaica provide a background of appar-
ent authenticity for Devices and Desires.
The action covers slightly less than three
years, during which Laura Klee, nick-
named Hebe, leads her party of Western
and Central European political refugees.
Originally the group was in the charge
of her father, a raffish character, part-
British, part-Dutch, who had hoped to
exploit a chaotic European situation for
his own ends. A professional failure, he
is killed as the book opens. Hebe, thir-
teen years old at the time, assumes leader-
ship by force of personality and cunning.
She could easily have been thoroughly
Ttmbelievable; as delineated, her force is
compelling and convincing, her motives
simple and ruthless. She and the refugee
group and the people they encounter are
memorable characters thoroughly “seen”
by the author, who skilfully chooses from
among them mouthpieces for her mature
philosophy—for E. Arnot Robertson has,
among other advantages, sufficient con-
viction to be didactic. She has plenty to
say and an uncommonly rich and satisfy-
ing style to say it in.
Keafs for fhe Times
Every age tends to remould great men
of the past in its own image ; and this
task has been performed for our times
and for Keats in John Keats: The Living
Year, 21 September, 1818, to 21 Septem-
ber, 1819, by Robert Gittings (Heine-
mann).
Keats the languishing, the unfulfilled,
the complete and pure lover, faithful to
a dream, was satisfying to the Victorian
age, and even up to the First World War.
Life had been harsh to him, but then,
Matthew Arnold assured them, Keats
was “with Shakspeare.” Virtue had
achieved its reward. But during the First
World War a change of feeling went
through the world which did not arrive
at its final and perfect utterance until the
middle of the second, in America, when
a Tin Pan Alley Keats announced; —
You can keep your knittin’ and your
purlin’—
If you’re wantin’ me to get to Berlin
Gimme a girl in
My arms to-night!
A thousand war-novels testify to this
changed point of view ; and our times
apply it also to our heroes of literature:
that it was a shabby thing to fob Keats
off with Shakspeare when he wanted
to be with Fanny Brawne. Mr. Gittings
has been unable to give him Fanny but,
properly interpreting the spirit of the
times, awards him another lady, Isabella
—what one might call a posthumous love-
affair, making up for 136 years of
feminine neglect.
Mrs. Isabella Jones has been there all
the time; Keats mentions her in his
letters, but never by name. She was
about Keats’s age, beautiful, and “in the
habit of spending her summers in or near
Hastings with an elderly, irascible, and
apparently rich Irishman named Mr.
Donal O’Callaghan; there is no mention
of any Mr. Jones.” Evidently she was,
as they used to say, “under Mr. O’Calla-
ghan’s protection” ; he was closely con-
nected with the Whig party, and his
brother was an M.P.
She wintered in London, and was very
hospitable. She prided herself on giving
parties where one could meet pretty women
and sensible men, and where the sensible
men could show their good sense by looking
at the pretty women. Her case of liqueurs,
which Keats noticed, contained some of
the choicest Scotch whisky, and wherever
she went she seems to have been able to
command expensive and well-furnished
lodgings. She had a lively, not to say a
biting, wit, and she wrote an excellent
style.
Keats met her first at Hastings in the
summer of 1817, when she and old Mr.
O’Callaghan were staying there, and
Keats had a room in the New England
Bank Inn. He put her in the opening of
Book II of “Endymion.” He met her a
year later in London; and on October
22, 1818, he walked back home with her,
to her rooms in Gloucester-street, Hol-
born. Mr. Gittings prints a picture of
the old Bank Inn; and. follows Keats ail
the way on his walk with Isabella.
Keats often met her. She sent presents
of game for his invalid brother, Tom,
and kept them up after Tom died “to
such an extent that Keats was obliged
to give some of them away.” And then,
says Mr. Gittings, Keats was due to go
to Chichester on January 21. He spent
the night of January 20 in London;
and, Mr. Gittings opines, spent it at
Gloucester-street. For on the following
day, January 21, Keats wrote the song,
“Hush, Hush, Tread Softly,” which he
copied into the “Literary Pocket Book”
for 1819, with a note: “written 21st of
January”:
Hush, hush! tread softly! hush, hush, my
dear!
Ail the house is asleep, but we know very
well
That the jealous, the jealous old bald-pate
may hear,
Tho’ you’ve padded his night-cap—O sweet
Isabel!
No light in the dusk, no torch in the gloom,
But my Isabel’s eyes, and her lips pulped
with b100m....
The stock-dove shall hatch her soft brace
and shall coo,
While 1 kiss to the melody, aching all
through!
The complete “Song” is in his collected
poems. Mr. Gittings considers that the
river-scene of garden, roses and birds,
is of their first meeting at Hastings—the
old man has been anaesthetised with a
stiff night-cap of whisky—but that the
poem Was written after the consummation
of their love at Gloucester-street, the date
having a peculiar significance for Keats.
As indeed it should ; for January 21
is St. Agnes’ Day ; and thus the night
of January 20 is St. Agnes’ Eve. More-
over,
About two years later, probably at the
time of Keats’s death, Richard Woodhouse
added this note to the copy of “The Eve of
St, Agnes” which he had made in his M.S.
book: —
“St. Agnes day is the 21st of January.
The Poem was written on the suggestion
of Mrs. Jones.”
Shocked argument used to rage about
what went on between Madeline and
Porphyro on St. Agnes’ Eve ; and if Mr.
Gittings’s theory is accepted, it should
settle the matter. At Mrs. Jones’s sugges-
tion Keats re-wrote his little three-stanza
song of joy into the rich narrative of
“St. Agnes’ Eve.” The old night-capped
protector becomes a houseful of enemies;
the Gloucester-street rooms a medieval
castle; and Mrs. Jones, presumably, be-
comes the lovely Madeline.
And not only, says Mr. Gittings, did
Isabella Jones give Keats “The Eve of
St. Agnes,” but she also gave him Bertha’s
room in “The Eve of St. Mark”:
ceiling-beam and old oak chair,
The parrot’s cage, and panel square;
And the warm-angled winter screen
On which were many monsters seen,
Called doves of Siam, Lima Mice,
And legless birds of Paradise,
Macaw, and tender Avadavat,
And silken-furred Angora cat.
The house has been pulled down, but
Mr. Gittings has inspected one of its
fellows. Not that “The Eve of St. Mark”
is entirely Isabella’s:
It recreates, in order, the city of
Chichester, the windows at Stansted, Mrs.
Lacy’s surroundings, Isabella’s room and
Keats’s reading of Chatterton with her
Just as “The Eve of St. Agnes” is not
all Isabella, either. Madeline’s room Mr.
Gittings identifies exactly as the Pulpitum
of the Vicars’ Hall, Chichester, the home
of an old Mrs. Lacy: “a projection built
above the little cell-like pulpit and, set
high up above it, a stone lattice window.”
Mr. Gittings can even show you a
picture of it, “from a photograph of a
watercolor sketch by Sir Gilbert Scott,
painted sometime before 1870.” Not
{Continued on page 35)


Introducing the Entirely New
Here is the very latest scientific achievement in leather processing. This smart new
colour, “Saddle-hide,” is not merely a colour, it’s a treatment in which
the leather hides are specially oiled to bring out all the natural beauty of graining and
give extra long life to the finished made-up article.
A. Folio Case This convenient size bag, made on
steel frame and with three compartments. Can be used
as document case or combined document and overnight
bag. Overall size 18 x 13 x 9in, Priced at £7/10/-.
BloilSC Co.Se A rounded edge case, beautifully lined, also
inside pocket, steel frame, rustless locks and fittings, 22in. £9/6/3,
24in. £lO/3/-, 26in. priced at £lO/19/9,
f
-
fc:*y.' -: ;-:>-
x .......i
o-
•J
ii
i
I
'
&?S£*
D
_ ."- >->Cf l eZZ~et?^SS
'■ /T ' ’
---r v=
II
"Saddle-hide” luggage is exclusive to
Each article carries our own famous brand, which guarantees quality,
durability and genuine value “HORDURA.”
C. —Hat Case
To match in design and
quality, square shaped,
size 1 Sin. Price £B/17/-
D.—Grip Case
A beautifully designed
bag, lightweight yet
built on a wide opening
steel frame, cloth lined,
comfortable double
handles and rustless
locks.
Size 20in. .. £B/5/-.
E. —Suit Case
A popular wide case,
with hide covered steel
frame, pear - shaped
corners, cloth lined, in-
side packing straps and
rustless brass locks and
fittings. Available in
2 4 in. £ 10/3/-, 26in.
£lO/19/9, and 28in.
£ll/16/9.
Hi
® 8 a
-
m.
m
m
STORE OPENS
8.30
a.m.
Avail yourself of our handy
shopping hours. You can
now shop before going to
the office and keep the
lunch hour free. You can
also come in and have
breakfast with your friends
at our Second l Floor Dining
Room any morning Mon-
day to Friday 8.30-10 a.m.
Moderate prices.
LAY-BY (D.P.S.)
You are invited to avail
yourself of our Lay-by ser-
vice. It’s a wonderful help
when special bargains are
being offered. Just a small
deposit secures the goods
for you, then pay the bal-
ance off at your own con-
venience. Country cus-
tomers, too, can lay-by
goods just by forwarding
us the deposit (4/- in the
£). We’ll reserve whatever
you want (except furni-
ture) until your next trip
to town. Lay-by Office,
Second Floor.
RESTAURANTS
In Anthony Horderns’ store
there are four conveniently
located eating places.
Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
you will find a quick service
buffet, also a Soda Foun-
tain. The “Tudor” room is
located on a quietly situ-
ated mezzanine floor, down
stairs from the silk depart-
ment, Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Main Dining Room
is on the Second Floor,
next to Shoe Department.
T. O. P. S.
Dial M 2401 and do your
shopping easy. TOPS
(Telephone Orders and
Personal Shopping) en-
ables you to shop at any
counter in our store. Just
phone M 2401 nnd ask for
TOPS. We’ll deliver your
order promptly to your
home or office. Busy ex-
ecutives, housewives, shift
and factory workers
already use this easy shop-
ping service.
CLOTHING
HOSPITAL
Our famous Clothing Hos-
pital will undertake repairs,
invisible mending, altera-
tions, refitting, re-lining,
etc., for both men’s and
women’s clothing. Mod-
erate charges. Also, we
have a service where we
undertake all manner of
reconditioning of leather
coats and jackets. Clothing
Hospital, Ground Floor,
George Street.
REPAIRS
Anthony Horderns’ are
famous for all classes of
repair work. Lawnmowers,
watches, furniture, blinds,
umbrellas, everything elec-
trical, stockings, etc., to
mention just a few.
TRUTH W ADVEHTISWG
nthony Horderns’
LUGGAGE DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY—PHONE M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 19, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3875
• •4"
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA
The Government’s election campaign is being carried
on with vigor, and audience-reaction demonstrates
that there are issues other than the monstrous bribes
offered to electors by the leader of “Labor” —bribes
most of which he will not be able to pay and has no
intention of even trying to pay if elected ; bribes which
must lead to red-hot inflation, cost-pf-living chaos and
unemployment if anybody is so ill-advised as to try to
carry out Dr. Evatt’s promises. “Labor’s” whole
election programme smacks of the sideshowman and
the gipsy.
There was little need for Sir Arthur Fadden, who
was chosen as the Government’s critic, to traverse
Dr. Evatt’s policy-speech, to elucidate the inner work-
ings of the financial devices of the new Wizard of
Oz; but the electors can thank him for summarising
in a few words the prospects if “Labor” should, by
any accident, reach office. Fadden prefaced this
summary by saying that “Labor’s” promises could be
made good only through expansion of credit and
through note-printing—“the most insidious and dis-
honest form of taxation, imposed at a flat rate upon
the whole community,'rich and poor alike”:
Uet the printing-presses roll. Unleash the in-
flationary hounds kept in check by the Menzies Gov-
ernment. Death to your living standards to make a
Socialistic holiday!
The key word both for “Labor” and for the
country is “Socialistic,” but it is one that is being
avoided like the plague, since it is impossible to discuss
it without reference to its origin. Its origin being the
Kremlin, “Labor” is coy indeed in bringing it forward
at this juncture. It is an objective which its leaders
think best forgotten if they can make the voters
forget it.
There has undoubtedly been a conjunction be-
tween the A.L.P. and Communism throughout the
years since J. S. (“Jock”) Garden and his fellow-
delegates to Moscow were able to quote the fact that
they had changed the policy of the “Labor” party from
nationalisation to socialisation in the drafting commit-
tee of 1921, which included, apart from Garden and
his Marxists, two future “Labor” Prime Ministers,
Curtin and Scullin. It has persisted not because
of any malign alliance but as a fact of nature
due to the common sharing of an aim adopted in
unity.
All through the history of the past generation
“Labor” has been embarrassed in trying to avoid the
“united front” with Communism through having
identical aims with the Communists, who, being per-
sons of vigor and little scruple, have frequently used
the fact to capture unions and even State A.L.P.
branches and to move more quickly towards the goal
than the more staid A.L.P. leaders. A quarter of a
century ago when the Federal Executive of the party
tried to abandon its Communist allies a Mr. Kilburn,
whom Mr. Lang elevated to the Legislative Council,
put the position in the nutshell in a resolution which
he moved at an N. S. Wales “Easter” Conference:
That whilst the policy and methods of the A.L.P.
and the Communist party are at variance, the
objective of these parties is Identical, i.e., the social-
isation of industry. Therefore the ill-considered
dictum of the Federal officials of the AX.P. would
prohibit the rank-and-file from supporting their own
policy.
This was echoed in more modern times by the
official organ of the party, which during the 1946
“Easter” Conference said that the Communists had
no choice but to support the “Labor” party because
of the identity of aims between the two. “Labor” has
always in the past two decades had unions run by
Communists represented in its A.L.P. conferences,
depended on unions run by Communists for finance,
turned to unions dominated by Communists for sup-
port at election-time and, perforce, submitted to having
various Trades and Labor Councils as its industrial
sections which have Communists as secretaries.
Moreover, the unity of aim between “Labor” and
Communism is demonstrated almost every day by
the ease with which members of each party pass into
the ranks and offices of the other without any apparent
formality. It is emphasised in the fact that the great
Australian “Labor” party which loudly claims credit
for the legislation which enables unions to rid them-
selves of Communist leadership has not yet mustered
up sufficient courage to endorse the A.L.P. industrial-
groups as its offshoots. It knows that to antagonise
the huge Communist interest within the “Labor”
movement would be to split the “Labor” party and
politically destroy its leadership.
It is this position which made some features of
Treasurer Fadden’s Speech so shattering to “Labor.”
The long string of questions about his actions con-
nected with Communism which Sir Arthur asked Dr.
Evatt have not been answered because they could be
answered in only one way. Dr. Evatt could not fail
to admit to numberless actions favorable, whether
intentionally or otherwise, to Communism of which
the queries inferentially accused him —the release
from internment against the advice of a judicial tri-
bunal of notorious Communist officials, convicted of
offences against the war effort, of planning sabotage
in war factories and, if their documents meant any-
thing, preparing for insurrection. He could not deny
his rescission of the ban on the Communist party
imposed by the Menzies Government during the war,
or the appointment by a Government of which he
was Attorney-General and Security Minister of lead-
ing Communists like Healy, Roach and Elliott, of the
Watersiders and Seamen’s unions, to paid Government
positions on the Stevedoring Commission, the
handling-equipment pool and the Maritime Industry
Commission. He cannot deny the sending-abroad at
Commonwealth expense by his Government of Ernest
Thornton any more than he could deny his tolerant
leaning as Minister for External Affairs towards
Russian policies or his appointment to the head of
the External Affairs Department of a young man, a
comparative junior in the department, who later
deserted his job as a High Commissioner after the war
to become first a “Labor” candidate with Dr. Evatt’s
blessing and immediately afterwards a delegate to a
Communist-organised conference in Peking.
Peking is the capital of a country which the
Doctor himself has been only too eager to designate
as actively enemy territory in his fulminations against
the Government for issuing passports to visit it.
The most telling feature of the Treasurer’s speech
was his question as to whether Dr, Evatt
opposed, and for what reasons, the Menzies Govern-
ment’s legislation to provide trade-unionists with the
secret ballot—the most potent weapon yet placed in
their hands to combat Communist domination.
Had there been any answer to these questions
satisfactory to himself it can be taken for granted that
the Doctor would have given them with clarity and
promptness. He has, however, made no attempt to
defend himself apart from personal abuse, which has
made the position worse for him, since it is obviously
evasive.
The fact is that the Communist grip on “Labor”
as at present constituted is unshakable, and must
remain so while the two parties have a common
objective and while the Communists can expect from
“Labor” what they said they expected from Dr. Evatt
when they threw themselves wholeheartedly into a
co-operative plan to win his 1944 Fourteen-points
Referendum —complete socialisation of industry and
finance.
Who Pays?
There is probably no figure of English legend that
appeals so much to the Socialists as Robin Hood, who
“robbed the rich to give to the poor,” and by so doing
became the unofficial patron-saint of the Socialists,
including Australian “Labor”-Socialists, Of course,
in adopting his principles for the redistribution of
wealth, they have been careful not to express his
slogan quite so crudely, and their method of effecting
the change of ownership is more subtle than that
practised under the green wood-tree.
In Australia, as in Robin Hood’s own England,
the time seems to have arrived when a new technique
is required. In the field of the Welfare State the
Socialists have reached a stage which Robin never
attained—which was probably just as well for his
legend. The Sherwood Forest Socialist died before
he had completed his self-appointed task of equalising
wealth, but it is interesting to conjecture what would
have happened if he had run out of rich abbots,
wealthy merchants and wicked sheriffs. Would he
have retired gracefully or would he have kept on
equalising from sheer force of habit, even though
it meant taking money from the left-hand pockets of
the erstwhile poor in order to put it into their right-
hand pockets. There is no doubt that his modern soul-
mates, the “Labor”-Socialists, would adopt the second
course. They have indeed adopted it in principle
already, though some of them don’t realise it and the
others won’t admit it. To which batch Dr. Evatt
belongs is still something of a mystery, but he’d be at
home in either company.
One thing is certain despite Evatt’s protestations
to the contrary—if he is called upon to make good his
lavish political promises, it will be the alleged bene-
ficiaries who ultimately pay for them. There is no
bottomless purse from which a Treasurer can ladle
out largesse, and the day is past when it was possible
to finance Socialist schemes by “soaking the rich.”
This has been admitted in Britain even by an extreme
Socialist like Nye Bevan; another Labor politician,
C. A. R. Crosland, whose knowledge of economics
goes somewhat beyond that of Dr. Evatt —he lectured
in the subject at Oxford for three years —has put it
very bluntly:
The redistribution of taxable income has now
gone so far that any large new social services would
be paid for not by the rich, whose present nntaxed
income is quite insufficient, but by the broad mass of
the population—in other words, by the recipients of
the new services.
In Australia the tax-rates on the upper-income bracket
have not reached the same level as in England, but at
the same time the Treasury people know there is no
great reserve of additional revenue to be tapped there.
However, the question of who is going to pay the
increased taxation is expressly excluded from the dis-
cussion by Evatt himself. Far from increasing taxa-
tion, the Robin Hood of Barton Forest (assisted by
Friar Calwell and Little Eddie) intends to reduce it —
which can only mean that his handouts to the “under-
privileged” are to come in some way out of loans or
the manipulation of credit. On this point he comes
into conflict with not only his political opponents and
with economists of all brands, but with his former
leader J. B. Chifley, who expressed very emphatic
views on the subject.
In 1948, when public opinion was veering against
his Government over bank-nationalisation and with
elections only a year off, the easy-money advocates
within his party urged Chifley to include in his Budget
election-burley of the sort his successor is now scatter-
ing with careless hand. He refused, and it was prob-
ably to his own followers more than to the Opposition
that he was talking when he said in his Budget speech
It is an illusion that social welfare and other
benefits can be had by some easy method of finance.
They must be paid for from taxation, either direct or
indirect.
Three weeks later, winding-up the Budget debate,
he amplified this;
We have never disguised the fact that social ser-
vices must be financed from revenue. They cannot be
paid for with borrowed money or bank-credit. That
would be a ruinous system of finance, and there
would be a deadly day of reckoning for any Govern-
ment that adopted it.
It appears that Dr. Evatt aspires to lead a Gov-
ernment which will deliberately invite this day of
reckoning ; the unfortunate thing is that the reckoning
would be deadly not only for the Government, but for
the people also.
Defending himself the day after his policy-speech.
Dr. Evatt said that he had drawn up his plan after
consultation with “Labor” men with much greater
knowledge of finance than either Menzies or Fadden,
and that “the people who advised Mr. Chifley advised
me on our policy for this election.” If that is so, then
his advisers cannot be accused of being people with
one-track minds.
Apart from saying that he will get some of his
needed money by financing works out of loan funds
instead of revenue—at the same time presumably meet-
ing the demands of State Governments out of the same
loan funds—the “Labor” leader has not been very
explicit as to where the money for his expensive pro-
gramme is to come from. But he has given two clues.
One is that he will issue a “directive” to the Com-
monwealth Bank and the other that “money to finance
progress in peace could be found just as easily as
unlimited money could be found for war.”
* The first recipe is alarming enough, but it is the
typical language of doctrinaire Socialism; the second
is the sort of nonsense peddled by Domain and Yarra-
bank demagogues, but usually avoided by national
leaders.
Dr. Evatt knows very well that while war, how-
ever terrible, is a temporary condition demanding an
all-out effort over a limited period, the programme he
wants to finance is intended to be a permanent way of
life. He also kno\vs that the 1939-45 war effort was
possible only because there was complete regimenta-
tion, direction of manpower, rationing, price- and
wage-pegging, restriction of capital-issues and all the
other irksome controls that gave this country the
nearest approach it has ever had to the regimented
Socialist State. While in office Dr. Evatt twice
attempted by referendums to make these things per-
manent features of the Australian way of life. Could
it be that he is thinking of having a third try?
India Blindfolded
“In the ACT”: Surely it’s time someone tried to
awaken the Indians to the dangers into which they are
being led, through a rosy cloud of muddled thinking
which declares that the materialistic West can’t under-
stand the spiritual processes of the East. Nehru’s
complete unwillingness to face facts was demonstrated
once again at the Asian Prime Ministers’ talks in
Colombo, which came a few days after the exchange
of greetings between himself and the Prime Minister
of Communist China on the signing of an agreement
on trade and intercourse between India, Tibet and
China. Chou En-lai on this auspicious occasion said
the agreement proved that a reasonable settlement
could be achieved for any international question “so
long as nations could abide by such principles and
adopted the way of negotiation.” Nehru blandly said
that the agreement “strengthened and put on a firm
basis the friendship between the peoples of China and
India.”
Fresh from this triumph, Nehru went off to
Colombo, where he carried the day in advocating a
truce in Indo-China. He sang the “peace” line in an
opening address which outdid the best efforts of Uriah
Keep. India’s suggestions, he said, “were put forward
tentatively, in all humility. They were not proposals
to decide the question this way or that way. We
did not presume to say that.” This cant was fol-
lowed by a patronising reference to Geneva, and a plea
that Asian nations should all be on the side of negotia-
tion rather than conflict. Some of this rubbish was
debunked in a speech by the Prime Minister of
Pakistan, who introduced the Kashmir dispute in
telling fashion. Pointing out that this issue was the
biggest potential danger to peace in the area repre-
sented at the conference, he continued:
We have accepted every formula for the peaceful solution
of this dispute that has so far been put forward by the
United Nations or its representatives. We also accepted
every proposal that was put forward by the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers for the peaceful settlement of this dispute.
And yet this dispute has remained unresolved for over six
years, and the armies of Pakistan and India still stand facing
each other in Kashmir across a cease-fire line determined
over three years ago. For nearly seven years the tour
million people of Kashmir have remained deprived of their
right of self-determination.
That was a refreshing dose of commonsense, but
Nehru gave no indication that he’d even heard it.


THE SKY’S THE LIMIT
“What’s Hillary got on me?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Reality and Asia
Despite the optimism of General
Navarre, there is little hope for the
French in Indo-China, and that the Com-
munists know it is shown by the eagerness
with which Molotov has come forward
at Geneva with a proposal for a com-
mission of neutral nations to supervise
a cease-fire.
The plan, of course, is hailed with
hope among correspondents, but it has
all the usual tags on it by which it can
be defeated by its authors as soon as the
Kremlin has used it to the full as a
propaganda instrument. Meanwhile
there is plenty of serious talk about
high-level discussions between the
United States and France which might
bring American, or Allied, intervention
nearer.
But the plain fact is that, whether
Anzus can be translated into a South-
East Asian defence alliance or not, Indo-
China has become scarcely the place to
intervene, because of political and mili-
tary difficulties. Mr. Dulles has said that
“the present situation does, not provide a
suitable basis for the U.S. to partici-
pate,” Apart from anything else, Wash-
ington would need requests not merely
from the French but from every State in
India-China, including Cambodia.
From a military viewpoint the stage
has been reached at which military inter-
vention would be like intervening in the
middle of a mud-spring to prevent the
bubbles coming up. The large area of
country, the length of lines, the lack of
all facilities for civilised warfare, the
wide area of the infiltrations and their
thoroughness make the saving of the
country almost impossible, especially
since, though few critics seem to realise
the fact, all the inhabitants of Indo-
China are primarily Indo-Chinese whether
they be Communists or not, and there-
fore brothers under the skin.
There is no line across the country —
as there is in Korea—which could be
held without the danger of being out-
flanked. And there is a climate which at
this time of year is only fit for Indo-
Chinese, and which is about as salubrious
for whites as Buna in 1942. Any Aus-
tralian or British Government —or
American Government for that matter —
which is prepared to send troops into
the mess will rue the day and take its
life in its hands.
If there is a defence-line to be marked-
out in South-East Asia it cannot be in
Indo-China, which is doomed if it is to
depend on localised military effort. A
million troops fighting under modern
methods would go nowhere. In fact, the
great strength of the Vietmirih is that
they have no modern equipment very
much apart from good artillery and auto-
matics as good as anybody’s—that is, a
burp-gun which is the equivalent of a
bit of gas-pipe with a drum-magazine on
it. They are just the same old numerous,
expendable, careless-of-life, barefooted,
rice-eating Asiatic campaigners who have
defied every kind of modernism from the
day of the arrival of the bow-and-arrow
on a war-front to the explosion of the
H-bombs in 1954.
They are, in fact, the kind of troops
who prove that H-bombs are not the
be-all and end-all of everything in war
and who are a problem to modern armies
in which the division-slice is 70,000 men
to keep 15,000 in the front line.
They are all fighters and “all fight,”
carrying their own transport below the
ankles and their commissariat inside
their shirts. Despite rumors, they have
not a fighting aircraft.
It was reported, as this was written,
that Mr. Casey had asked Mr. Eden for
a meeting of British, U.S., French, Aus-
tralian and N.Z. service chiefs to make a
military appraisal of the Indo-China
situation, though this in no way com-
mits Australia to action. It is a prudent
move ; but it takes place years later than
the right moment. The implications of
Vietminh moves were obvious long ago,
and they could have been nipped in the
bud then. But nobody in the West ever
seems to act except in crisis.
What is most wanted at present is the
stripping-away of all pretence in rela-
tionships with the Communist Powers.
Nobody who has taken more than a
passing interest in the Korean affair has
had the slightest doubt but that the
U.S.S.R. has been involved up to its neck
in the direction of the war. But it
has been almost a crime to whisper it
since Russia is a veto Power of U.N.O.
sharing the military command of that
creaky institution and part-owner of its
secrets. How farcical this has been is
shown by the U.S. Government’s
announcement at the weekend that the
Government o| North Korea is run by
Soviet citizens, that the command at the
time of the crossing of the 38th Parallel
in June, 1950, was in the hands of a
Russian general, that in 1951 up to
20,000 Soviet military personnel were
serving in North Korea training troops
and engaged in technical services. It is
time the Western world faced realities.
The Great Loan Trick
The more the claims of Dr. Evatt and
his financiers are examined the more they
prove to be full of holes.
A case in point is his promise to finance
£lOO million-worth of works each year
from loan-money. He claims —and he has
the support of the colleague who would
almost certainly be his Treasurer, Mr.
Arthur Calwell —that this money saved
from revenue can be used to pay for the
abolition of the means-test, without any
increase in taxation. And it is important
to him that electors should believe that
this switch-over can take place, because
his whole plan depends on it.
But there is a small snag in the way—
the Financial Agreement Act, Clause 111
(10), under which the Commonwealth
may not claim more than a fifth of the
amount of loan-money raised on behalf
of the Commonwealth and States jointly
in any one year.
Dr. Evatt has, of course, promised
the States whatever money is needed for
works and housing. And last year the
States asked for £317 million —which can
be taken as a very modest aspiration for
next year if “Labor” happens to be in
power and the Cahills and the Gairs
remember Dr. Evatt’s lavish promisings.
Also, the semi-governmental and local
authorities last year asked for a modest
£ll7 million, and next year they are not
likely to hide their lights under bushels
if seemingly easy marks like Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Calwell show signs of being
willing to pluck the fowl for them.
So when the Doctor comes to raise
his £lOO million, which he can’t do with-
out if he intends to carry out his pledges,
he must either persuade the States to let
him have more than his legal share of the
year’s loan pickings or he must be pre-
pared in his first year to raise at least £5OO
million on the loan market —about £3OO
million more than was raised this year.
(Of the £l9O million raised in 1952-53,
only £52 million came from the public.
The rest was from trust funds, .etc.)
With characteristic financial genius he
is paving the way for this gigantic raid
on Australian savings. He has announced
a proposal to cut interest-rates!
Coal and Costs
During the years since the war attention
has often been drawn to the way in
which the N. S. Wales coal industry has
been losing once-profitable markets in
other States. Until a year or so ago the
industry didn’t have to give this much
concern; the problem was to produce
enough coal to meet current requirements.
But the time has now come when it has
to be faced squarely, and the Joint Coal
Board, in its latest report, has attempted
to do that.
Ignoring Queensland, Tasmania and
Westralia, which together buy less than
one per cent, of N. S. Wales coal, the
board finds that fuel- and power-con-
sumption in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
South Australia increased by 40 per cent,
in the last seven years, but in the same
period the consumption of N. S. Wales
coal increased by only 30 per cent.
Spurred on by the difficulty (until re-
cently) of getting regular and dependable
supplies from N. S. Wales, the Govern-
ments of Victoria and South Australia
developed their local deposits, and,
although these are of lower calorific
value per ton, their use has turned out
to be cheaper than N. S. Wales coal.
The board doesn’t expect any reversal of
this policy. South Australia’s new power-
stations are to use Leigh Creek coal;
Victoria has stopped using N. S. Wales
coal for electricity-production and is con-
structing a plant to produce 15 million
cubic feet of gas a day from brown
coal.
The railways of the three States had at
June 30 last year 230 oil-burning loco-
motives and 70 diesel-electrics ; the num-
ber of both has increased considerably
since then. Even the gasworks are desert-
ing coal. By 1956 Sydney’s biggest gas-
company will derive half its production
from oil, and a similar move is afoot in
Melbourne. It is expected that the com-
petition from oil will become even keener
with the opening of the new refineries
and the necessity for them to dispose of
their “residual oils.” The report says
“this arises primarily from the fact that
the economics of refinery operation are
such that the residual oils must be sold,
whatever the price.”
Three factors, in the main, account
for the decline in consumption. Insecur-
ity of supplies forced Victoria and South
Australia to develop their own resources
of inferior coal; high cost of the N. S.
Wales product made it an economic pro-
position . for them to continue that
development on a permanent basis ; the
same factor permitted oil to make inroads
into the gas and power-production field.
N. S, Wales coal, the board considers,
is now on the defensive. Its problem is
to get costs down, and this means more
and more mechanisation. “It must, how-
ever, be efficient mechanisation and to be
efficient it must be complete.” An
obstacle retarding this is the Miners’
Federation ban on the extraction of pillar-
coal.
For a long time the sellers’ market
encouraged both management and miners
in inefficiency, but it must now be evident
to all that those days are past and that
the board is quite right when it says that
now “it must be the prime aim of every
one in the industry to improve efficiency
in | order to permit selling-prices to be
reduced and markets retained.”
Rail and Road
City railways are in the news in three
States. In Victoria the Parliamentary
Public Works Committee has recom-
mended the construction as soon as pos-
sible of an underground railway to ease
Melbourne’s traffic problems. The idea is
to relieve the pressure on both Spencer-
street and Flinders-street stations and take
passengers right into the heart of the city.
The proposed tube would branch off the
main suburban system between Richmond
and Princes Bridge, pass under the Trea-
sury Gardens and Parliament House to
run below the entire length of Lonsdale-
street, thence under the railway yards to
join the surface, line again just before
entering North Melbourne station. City
stations would be at Exhibition-, Eliza-
beth- and King-streets ; cost, “roughly”
£l5 million ; time in construction, three to
five years. But Melburnians are not being
encouraged to expect their tube soon. The
railways commissioners say the job can-
not be started before 1960, and Premier
Cain warns that it must be regarded as a
long-range project.
“Long-range project” seems to be the
appropriate term for city-railways. Syd-
ney’s Eastern Suburbs line was in 1947
definitely promised for 1950, but even
now it wouldn’t be safe to bet on its being
finished before the Melbourne tube. Still,
the Circular Quay overhead, unsuccess-
fully disguised as an ancient ruin during
the Royal visit, is nearing completion, so
the city loop may be in operation within
a measurable period. Electrification of the
Blue Mountains line has also moved along
lately, and the department is speaking
hopefully of running the electrics as far
as Penrith by November.
Adelaide’s electrics are still at the blue-
print stage, and the announcement the
other day that diesels were to be tried out
on the suburban lines caused pessimists to
assume that they would never get any
further. At the same time South Aus-
tralian hearts have been gladdened by the
news that the Commonwealth has agreed
to broaden to standard gauge the portion
of the North-South line between Leigh
Creek and Marree. When finished this
will mean that cattle from the Birdsville
track can be carried from Marree to
Adelaide without retrucking.
Country-railway construction in most
States is working in reverse—more miles
are being closed down than opened up.
But for country-transport generally there
was a bright spot recently; it came
with the policy-speeches of the two poli-
tical leaders. Both made definite promises
affecting country roads and petrol-tax.
The Prime Minister undertook to pay to
the States 7d. a gallon on all petrol (which
will in 1954-55 increase the roads-grants
to £25 million) and to require the States
to spend at least 35 per cent, of it in
rural areas, and Dr. Evatt also promised
to hand over petrol-tax proceeds to the
States.
Vale "Rosie"
“Ek Dum’s” tribute:
Major-General Sir Charles Rosenthal died
quietly at his home at Green Point, Gosford,
on May 11, aged 79. He had been a soldier
for 62 years and had held a commission for
over half a century. He was lucky; his con-
tinued existence one of the strange manifesta-
tions of fate in war.
He was always a substantial man physically—
the best of targets, especially as he had some-
thing of a flair for gold and scarlet in what
his staff thought to be the most inappropriate
places—such as viewing an enemy trench from
a hill within easy sniper-range. And neither
rank nor eminence cured him of his habit of
getting as closely to grips with his foe as he
could. He had his last wound behind The
Mound at Villers-Bret. as a divisional com-
mander.
He was all of 40 when he went to Anzac in
command of the 3rd Field Artillery Brigade,
but when he hauled his first guns up to the
crest over Shell Green to cover the shrapnel-
sprayed and newly-blooded Anzacs who were
being torn to pieces by Turkish shrapnel, he
showed all the enthusiasm of a young subaltern.
Before taking command of the no-man’s-land
in front of the Turkish lines, which, as Dr.
Bean says, he swept clean as with a broom,
he had first had to vanquish the dour and
daring Bridges, himself later a victim of his
own daring. Even Bridges was prepared to think
him a little mad in his optimism. Nobody
knew how he survived.
He acquired in his dug-out shelter the famous
35 holes in his tunic, which is now in the
Australian War Museum; and his hobby during
the rest of his service seemed to be daring the
Turk or the Boche to drill holes in him. His
musical chuckle was apt to turn the blood
of his companions on reconnaissance cold as
he wandered around in the dark turning on
torches under the noses of the enemy or dis-
played his scarlet tabs and cap-band on some
airy hillock as he viewed a completely hostile
landscape. More than once, even when he
had reached general’s rank and had progressed
via 4th Divisional Artillery to the 9th Infantry
Brigade before Passchendaele and the 2nd
Division before Villers-Bret., he saved his own
life with his revolver. It was a miracle that he
came through with a mere five wound-stripes;
yet there was nothing of the hero in his bear-
ing. Danger was all in the day’s business with
him. He encountered it, equable and laughing.
He went out to the front-line, as somebody
said, as “if he was crossing the lawn to break-
fast.” He brought to his command a cool and
equable courage which was moral as well as
physical. He never shirked responsibility, but
never lost his head. But before his men went
anywhere into a sticky corner he went first.
One who served intimately under him de-
scribed him, as a commander, as always ready
to listen carefully to anything put before him,
to weigh it and give a prompt and courteous
answer, clear-cut and decisive. But he could
be an obstinate advocate with superiors, though
rarely in anger. Most of those who were near
him loved him to the end and testified to it
with tears during the moving address with
which Bishop Pilcher said good-bye to him
in St. Andrew’s Cathedral in Sydney on May
12.
In personal contacts he was brisk, full of
keen enthusiasms, ready to raise a beautiful
baritone in mess, simple and direct in thought
and speech, his audacity typified by that first
essay in aggression at Gallipoli when he had
taken his guns into the front-line, firing his
shells with a muzzle-setting.
Bean wrote of him as he was before First
Villers-Bret.:
To his brigade his type of leadership
came like a fresh draught to a man
thirsty for natural stimulant. A new life
infused the force. The troops leapt at the
breezy courage that was keen to test any
danger before they entered it.
Surrounded by keen, fearless men, the older
ones typified by the immortal Goddard, the
younger like Morshead, his legacy to World
War 11, he stood out above them all.
His real career ended in 1919. In peace
he seemed as if he found the task of living
where no bullets whistled too zestless to be
worth the effort.
He practised his profession of architecture.
He was for a time member for Bathurst in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, later an M.L.C., an
alderman of Sydney, administrator of Norfolk
Island, president of the Federal Institute of
Architects; but he went through all his civilian
experiences with a distracted air as if the guns
of Passchendaele, Lagnicourt, Hamel, Villers-
Bret., Mont St. Quentin, Beaurevoir and Mont-
brehain were still sounding in his ears. To-
wards the end he was only himself when he
sat, a stately and monumental, yet genial, figure
in the coffee line of Sydney’s Imperial Service
Club, the surviving youths of his staff of 1918,
grown old in vicissitude in two wars, and the
“Knights of the Round Table” clustered about
him.
He was one of the band of whom it could
be said that in the terrible months of 1918,
when the tide had ebbed previously towards the
point of defeat, they saved Australia from
becoming a German colony.
A Korean Anniversary
“In the ACT”: An anniversary which
has attracted little attention in Australia
has probably not been overlooked in war-
torn Korea —the fiftieth anniversary of
the Russo-Jap war of 1904-5, which
helped greatly to give modern-day Japan
its first major delusions of grandeur. It
was a curioius coincidence that the
Geneva talks began almost on the anni-
versary of the Yalu River battle of May
1, 1904, at which 40,000 well-trained
Japanese beat 7000 Russians in the first
defeat of any European army by Nippon.
Japan after that war got a free hand in
Korea, and was not dislodged until her
defeat nine years ago, when the Russians
and Americans tried to find sortie work-
able arrangement for administering the
country—or at least the Americans tried.
The war which started in 1950, when
North Korean Communists marched
south, is too recent to need review, and
the prolonged truce negotiations may be
a pointer to long talks at Geneva.
Japan has profited financially out of
that war, but those Japanese who are
promoting their country’s current ambi-
tions have never been happy either about
United Nations’ endeavors to secure a
unified Korea or the efforts in South
Korea at least to achieve a semblance of
democracy. The Australian experts on
the area have been considerably impressed
(i Continued on next page)


[For electoral matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
in the two years since the Jap peace treaty
by the vigor of the movement in Japan
for the setting-up again of a Japanese
“protectorate” over Korea, as a solution
of the arguments between the Western
and Communist blocs. This seems hardly
the kind of compromise which would
appeal to either, especially as Commun-
ist China appeared to be getting the lion’s
share of authority in North Korea, but
anyone knowing Japan will realise that
the present unpopularity of the proposal
will not greatly discourage the artists in
long-range programmes.
There is enough Australian blood in
the Korean battlegrounds to warrant our
closest interest in the negotiations, apart
from the ultimate effects on Asian des-
tiny. Japan isn’t likely in the near future
to pick a quarrel with either China or
Russia—in fact, most Japanese today are
in deadly fear of an American-provoked
attack by Russia on Japan—but there’s
no doubt she’ll get back into Korea if
ever given half a chance, especially if she
can do so peaceably and with strong
backers.
POLITICAL POINTS
With the party-leaders criss-crossing
the Commonwealth with their barnstorm-
ing tours it was inevitable that their paths
should meet somewhere. They did —in
Hobart on Thursday night. Menzies
spoke in the Town Hall; Evatt a few
hundred yards away in the old Theatre
Royal. Both had enthusiastic audiences
and were obviously speaking to the con-
verted. Now if they’d only thought to
exchange audiences!
« «
Menzies asked his Hobart audience
where Evatt was going to get the money
to fulfil his promises. An amateur
economist in the hall replied: “From
the hospital scheme.” Menzies replied;
“The only connection between the hos-
pital scheme and the Opposition is that
they are both non-profit-making.”
• ©
The desperate nature of Evatt’s last
bid for the Priministership is shown by
“Labor’s” complete confusion over the
cost of the Doctor’s sudden promises.
Menzies estimated the cost (on Treasury
figures) at £357 million. Calwell claimed
that this was an exaggeration. Evatt him-
self in Adelaide said “the cost of the
Labor party’s programme has been
exaggerated out of all proportion.” But
Senator McKenna, speaking on the same
platform as Evatt in Hobart, took
Menzies’s figure as a basis (at the same
time describing it as “fantastic”) and
proceeded to show how “Labor” would
raise £387 million —“leaving enough for
tax-cuts.” When Scullin was in London
during the depression trying to raise the
wind the tail-end of his cables to
Theodore usually read: “Brennan and
Moloney concur.” Apparently Evatt,
Calwell and McKenna don’t. That’s
leaving out Bourke, who has spoken
against hasty abolition of the means-test.
© •
Silliest remark so far in the election
campaign comes from Queensland
Premier Gair, who chaired Evatt’s Bris-
bane meeting. “If increased pensions,
just pensions for ex-servicemen, homes
for the homeless, meant back to inflation,
then let us have inflation.” Calwell is
bound to eclipse Gair at any tick of the
clock.
« •
Given an excellent opportunity of
reducing the size of their cumbersome
Cabinet, the Cahills passed it up and
appointed successors to both Clive Evatt
and F. P. Buckley. The team was en-
larged in the first place by McGrrrr to
make room for Clive; with 16 members
it is easily the biggest among the State
Ministries.
R. B. Nott, M.L.A. for Liverpool
Plains since 1941, fills one vacancy, and
J. J. Maloney, M.L.C., former Minister
to Moscow, the other. Nott has been
sworn-in as Minister without portfolio ;
Maloney’s status won’t be confirmed until
the resignation of Mines Minister Buck-
ley—off to London to succeed Agent-
General Tully—takes effect at the end of
June.
• •
G. F. Miller, “Labor” candidate for
Menzies’s electorate, Kooyong (Vic.),
startled his listeners when he shouted,
“The slick politician with glib promises
must go.” For a moment it looked as if
there was a rebel in the camp; then his
audience realised it was Menzies’s pro-
mises of 1949 that Miller was referring to,
not Evatt’s of 1954.
• •
The real reason behind Clive Evatt’s
resignation is now apparent. Obviously
Cahill released him so that his services as
Housing adviser would be available to
brother Bert.
• •
If you’ve only got one speech it be-
comes all the more important to choose
your audience carefully. Dan Curtin,
“Labor’s” gravel-voiced member for
Watson (N.S.W.), went down to Albury
to support the party candidate for Farrer
and harangued a street-corner meeting on
his favorite subject of scrap-iron for
Japan and “our undefended north.” In
his own industrial electorate that sort of
thing evokes calls of “Good old Dan.”
In Albury it is doubtful if he even im-
pressed himself.
e •
In Queensland “Labor” is going flat-
out to win Capricomia and Wide Bay;
Federal and State politicians have been
swarming into the electorates like a plague
of locusts. On paper Capricomia, held
by Liberal H. G. Pearce with a margin
of 1225 votes at the last election, seems
the easier of the two, but “Labor” feels
quite confident about Wide Bay, claiming
that the greater part of Bernie Corser’s
5600 majority was a personal vote which
won’t be available to his successor as
Country-party candidate, W. A. Brand.
There’s a bit of wishful-thinking in that;
“Labor’s” man is Frankie Forde, whose
own personal vote wasn’t strong enough
to save his seat in 1946.
• •
Butter and margarine went “off the
ration” in Britain last week for the first
time in 14 years. Housewives will now
be able to feel that the war is really over
at last.
• •
A Melbourne clergyman who has been
refused a passport to attend a World
Peace Council meeting in Berlin has pro-
tested that he “does not even kndW if the
conference is being held in West or East
"THE OLD GREY MARE...."
Berlin” and that he does “not think the
council is Communist-inspired.” If that
is the extent of his knowledge it would
seem that for his own protection he
should be prevented from risking his inno-
cence in furrin parts.
• •
Alec Robertson, another would-be
traveller who lost his passport, wrote a
temperate letter to “S. M. Herald” in
which he said:
What other passengers on the Changsha
were to do I do not know; it was my
intention, as a journalist, to carry on my
work in the course of a trip through a
number of countries. Personally, I have
no knowledge of any conference taking place
in Peking that would be of interest to me.
In the Communist “Tribune” he was
less circumspect, saying, among other
things,
I, who have consistently opposed Menzies,
am prohibited from travelling, while Casey
gets full freedom to go where he likes, and
to promise six Australian battalions for
the war on Indo-China.
The lie about Casey’s “promise” has
appeared only in Communist papers, yet
Robertson speaks of it as an accepted
fact. “As a journalist” he has nothing to
learn from Moscow propagandists.
• •
Haylen, “Labor” M.H.R. for Parkes
(N.S.W.), tried hard to get marriage-loans
included among the vote-catchers in
Evatt’s policy-speech, but when the bar-
gain basket was opened there was no
sign of ’em. This hasn’t deterred Haylen
from showing them on his campaign leaf-
lets as one of the things “Labor” is
pledged to do NOW. He’s also publicis-
ing 2 per cent, housing-loans, although
the best his leader has offered is 3 per
cent. Apparently Haylen feels a little
worried about his chances —he scraped
home by 681 last time in a poll of 38,000.
Liberal candidate is Bill Ness, who gave
Maliam a good run for the Dulwich Hill
seat in the State Assembly last year.
• •
The Government obviously gives itself
a chance of unseating Haylen; Parkes
and Kingsford-Smith, also narrowly held
by “Labor” in 1951, were the only two
metropolitan electorates in which the
Prime Minister spoke during last week’s
visit to N. S. Wales. On his return trip
he will be heard in Barton, the strong-
hold which the Doc held by a toehold in
1951.
• •
Among the five “Labor” members
elected to the Westralian Legislative
Council on May 8 was Mrs. R, F. Hutchi-
son, who can claim two records —she is the
first woman Legislative Councillor in
W.A. and also the first great-grandmother
to sit in any Parliament in Australia.
The second achievement is all the more
remarkable in view of the lady’s age—6l.
• •
Wharfies and radioactivity? A
browned-off citizen from North Queens-
land dropped into the Bulletin office
last week and suggested that geiger-
counters should be tried out not on the
cargo or the ships but on the wharfies
themselves. He maintained that if the
test revealed any kind of activity the fel-
Act will come into force early next
month.
• •
Queensland’s Literature Board of
Review, consisting of the Solicitor-
General, a lawyer, a bookstore manager,
the president of the Queensland branch
of the Authors and Artists’ Association
and a housewife will meet for the first
time this week. Its job is to ban comics,
magazines and books deemed likely to
corrupt the minds of children.
• •
S’Eric Harrison on Evatt’s financial
proposals:
Ignoring all the principles of public
finance, the Leader of the Opposition has
put on his space-helmet and dived into the
stratosphere of inflationary finance.
That makes the Doc. a misguided missile.
• •
“Postscript”: Far from showing that
“Australia’s now well in the postage-
stamp racket” (B. 14/5/’54) by establish-
ing philatelic sections in capital cities,
the Post Office has definitely discouraged
what was indeed becoming a racket. The
first shot was fired about two years ago
when imprint blocks (bearing printers
imprint on selvedge) were withdrawn from
sale over P.O. counters because dealers
through agents within the Post Office were
cornering these specialities of philately
and retailing them to collectors at as much
as 2s. over face-value even while the issues
were still current. Since the inauguration
of philatelic bureaux, mint specimens of
commemorative or any other issue, past
lows would obviously not be genuine
Cairns wharfies.
e •
“In the ACT”: Canberra, which usually
relaxes into semi-slumber while the rest
of Australia contests an election, has been
kept wide awake on this occasion. The
beginning of the Petrov Commission on
Monday, with seats for 60 in the Press
section and about 450 members of the
public in the rest of the Albert Hall, was
something of a world event. It was duly
recorded, outside the hall, by the news-
reel and TV cameras, and provided plenty
of conversation for the local dinner-tables
and cocktail-parties. The candidates for
the A.C.T. seat also kept the ether lively,
and had their policy-speech nights. The
“Independent Labor” man, Cusack, whose
bids to get back into the politics he left
decades ago keep Canberra mildly
amused, had his inaugural meeting on
The Lawns at Manuka. It was a chilly
evening, and the only persons present
were a reporter and a policeman. The
Capital Territory has plenty of local pro-
blems, including housing and administra-
tion, and they are being aired fully by
Mrs. Mary Stevenson (the only woman
in the House of Reps, field) for the Libs
and by sitting member, Jim Fraser, for
“Labor.” Voting is expected to be close.
• •
Victoria’s Smutty Publications Act has
received the Royal Assent but is being
held over while lists are being compiled
for the guidance of newsagents. All
distributors must be registered and must
stamp their name and address on all
printed matter not exempt from the Act.
Exempt items include newspapers and
works of a political, cultural, religious,
professional or scholastic nature. The
or present, may be bought there at
face-value as long as stocks last.
• •
On Monday an inquiry began into the
suspension of J. H. Fitzpatrick, chief
assistant electrical engineer of the sus-
pended Bankstown Council, who has
been accused by the administrator of the
council of improper practices.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'X'HERE is more honor among English
-*■ than Australian thieves —or so a visit-
ing electrical engineer to our firm main-
tains. His work here is mainly on
wharves, and he swears that every time
he lays down a tool and raises his eyes
from it, it’s gone. While working in the
Port of London and other big docks of
England his tools were never stolen. It
was quite fit and proper that the goods of
ships and firms could be appropriated,
but pinching the instruments whereby a
bloke earned his living, no! —“C.A.L.”
“Johndee”: With Sydney’s fine G.P.O.
clock still in cold-storage, there is a lesson
“ Please! Princie, elbows of the table!”
in what happened to the Elizabeth-street
clock in Melbourne. It told the time
very accurately, but in sullen silence,
for 25 years, because a whole generation
of people had forgotten about its chimes,
In 1934 I wrote to the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment ; it promptly confirmed what I had
thought was an old-wives’-tale about a
peal of bells which not only chimed the
quarters, but played a whole host of
tunes, and it gave details of the 12 bells
and the ringing mechanism, which had
been maintained in perfect order. Accord-
ing to the department the bells were
silenced about 1908, but it could give
only two guesses as to the reason: (a)
that they disturbed hospital patients at
night; (b) that Melba complained they
were ringing out of tune. As a result of
my representations to the Director-
General the chimes and carillon were
turned on again on New Year’s Day,
1935 ; they have been playing their tunes
at three-hourly intervals ever since,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”; When he was pre-
sented with a silver key at the opening
of the Canberra Club extensions. Sir
William Slim admitted that such things
made him nervous. “I remember I was
once invited to open a big new plant,”
said the G.-G., “and I was presented with
a huge key for the purpose. It turned
in the lock with a satisfactory sound —I
turned the handle and pushed the door,
but it didn’t budge. Then the managing-
director of the show tried, with the same
result. It was a bit embarrassing. The
movie-cameras stopped turning, and
people shuffled a bit. Then a little chap
in a bowler hat came up and solved the
mystery. ‘The door opens outwards,’ he
said.”
“Spoke”: The modern touch. §ig.,
aged eight, to his mother: “Tomorrow’s
Mum’s Day, Mum. What are you going
to give me?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mardibil”: Some who hurl them-
selves into eternity can’t be blamed for
lack of consideration towards those they
leave behind. A few years ago a Sydney
musician, prior to hanging himself, wrote
a message asking his relatives to advise
the conductor of an orchestra to get
another drummer for Saturday. A Mar-
rickville (Sydney) woman carried this
unselfish spirit further when, at the end
of a farewell note to her husband, she
mentioned that he would find his dinner
in the oven. A perhaps more selfish
motive prompted a Melbourne suicide’s
request that out of the money he had
left on the mantelpiece six-shillings should
be paid to a restaurant he had “scaled”
for the price of a meal. “I want to put
myself right with God,” his message con-
cluded, indicating a conviction that the
six-bob owing to the restaurant had been
duly entered in the ledgers of Heaven.
+*♦ +*<■
“Muskeen”: If there are any tattooing
artists in Melbourne nowadays (B.
5/5/’54) they don’t run to a telephone.
There were several in London in the
First War. One, in Jermyn-street, had a
suite, complete with waiting-room, that
would not have disgraced a Harley-street
specialist. My turn came after a distin-
guished-looking, bearded gentleman and
a young lady emerged from the studio,
The artist informed me that the client
was the Duke of Orleans. In the later
scrap a roving tattooist found his clien-
telo in the Allenby-road cafes of Tel Aviv.
“Rigel”: I believe Melbourne still has
a tattoo artist in the Eastern Market; cer-
tainly there was a practitioner in Flinders-
street, between William- and King-,
in 1943. I know because I then realised,
in my middle thirties, a boyhood ambi-
tion to have a tattoo-mark. There is a
common belief that tattooed people have
usually undergone the operation when
tanked. There were several other clients
when I was there, and all were stone-
cold sober. It was 10.30 on a Sunday
morning.
❖ * *
“Spoke”: Drinkers might be interested
in the latest acquisition of the National
Gallery in Melbourne. It is a yard-of-ale
glass, as produced by the British glass-
“He keeps thinking he's a horse. Doctor."
blowers of the late 18th century, and used
in initiation ceremonies at Eton, where
freshers were required to drain it in one
draught. It is actually a yard long, and
not the sort of thing to be called for just
after Bung shouts, “Time, gents, please! ”
* ❖ *
“Spearmaniac”: Diver’s-“bends” is
not the same as the decompression-sick-
ness of the aviator (B. 5/5/’54). Both
result from a sudden decrease in pressure,
and both may be fatal, but there the
similarity ends. Decompression-sickness
occurs when the gas in the body expands,
rupturing the blood-vessels and lungs,
and in severe cases causing them to burst.
For this reason a diver never holds his
breath while ascending or descending. A
lungful of air inhaled at a depth of 6ft.,
where the pressure is 31b. per square inch
greater than normal air, can burst the
diver’s lungs if he holds his breath when
he rises to the surface. The “bends,” how-
ever, rarely occurs if the diver does not go
below 40ft. As the diver rises from depths
beyond this, making the fine adjustments
between internal and external pressure so
as to be neither squeezed nor exploded,
nitrogen in his bipod comes out of solu-
tion. If the ascent is too quick the gas
cannot be expelled quickly enough, and
bubbles form and lodge wherever there
is a restriction —in fatty tissues, joints,
and sometimes in the heart and brain.
These bubbles are only pinhead size, and
block the flow of blood. They do not
burst the tissues. This is the difference
between the “bends” and decompression-
sickness.
“Harbel”: My evening newspaper dis-
penses some startling information at
times. *ln reporting an assault case it
printed an allegation that plaintiff was
“dentally deranged.” But I found the
following item more fascinating: “Aus-
tralian aircraft-carrier Melbourne now
being built in Britain will be completed
and handed over in the middle of 1955.
dcetshcmfwy. Admiralty First Lord J.
P. L. Thomas said this in the Commons
yesterday.” Without condoning the
Admiral’s language I can readily under-
stand his disgust at the time it takes to
build a ship these days.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Beachcomber”: Regarding that U.S.
university-course in cargo - handling
(“X.M.N.,” B. 5/5/’54), I nominate my
deceased mate, Pedro, for a posthumous
award of M.Stev. Our windjammer (900
tons net) sailed from Chile with a full
cargo of nitrate, Pedro having stowed
every bag of it in three weeks! His suc-
cess in was
due to the physique of a gorilla, the
will to work, and attention to diet half-
a-dozen duck-eggs for breakfast, a pound
or so of buffalo-steak midday, and a
real feed after knock-off!
*X* *> ***
“Matelot”: “Sackville’s” guess (B.
28/4/’54) that in what he calls the “tradi-
tional past” old rope had commercial
value to the seaman hits the mark. Every
old sailorman must have lively recollec-
tions of the “shakings-cask,” the final
resting-place of scraps of rope, rope-yarns.
old canvas and such, which in the course
of a lengthy voyage amounted to a con-
siderable quantity. These were tradition-
ally regarded as the first-mate’s perquisite.
At the turn of the century the average
wages of the first-mate of a sailing-ship
were about eight or nine pounds per
month; the small sum gained by sale of
a voyage’s shakings was a valued addition.
The temptation to increase the quantity
of shakings was not always resisted, which
led to the “ship’s husband” (forerunner
of the present marine superintendents),
requiring to sight old ropes and so on
before passing the mate’s requisition for
the coming voyage. Old rope still has
eager buyers in most of the principal
ports.
♦> *t* ❖
“Parram”: “Kisses for Breakfast” was
the title of an old film which, despite
adolescent fires, I refused to attend —pre-
ferring porridge. It’s a comfort that
science has now marched to a point
where Aphrodite may be reconciled to an
empty belly, a noted U.S. “beautician”
guaranteeing his cosmetics under the
Pure Food Act! We can now face up
to an empty fridge and settle for a lip-
stick sandwich helped down with a swig
of “Special Astringent.”
“Jafsie”: Retirement in New York of
Arturo Toscanini calls to mind the
famous conductor’s own account of his
arrival at Victoria Station, England. He
was, he related, mobbed and knocked
over by a bevy of screaming women —in
their~haste to reach Spencer Tracy.
“X.S.”: The Greek proprietor of an
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, cafe, who
weighs 20st., was stuck-up by two young
bandits while standing behind his counter.
Said the Greek, “Don’t be silly,” brushed
away the gat that had been thrust into
his ample stomach and walked around the
counter. According to the dailies it was
his enormous size which caused the ban-
dits to break and run for their waiting
taxi, but I’d say it was his determination
—his size would make him a better target.
A daughter of mine was trying to back
her cart outside a railway-station. She
pulled and pulled, but old Bob refused
to budge. Then a man who obviously
knew a lot about horses came up, caught
hold of Bob’s head and backed him quite
easily. My daughter reckoned it was the
man’s strength that did it. Actually it
was his confidence and determination. He
was a little old man weighing less than she
does.
A CIVILISED COMMUNITY
“A Northern Territory hermit has decided ‘to
apply for the old-age pension and retire in a
civilised community—Borroloola would do.’
Borroloola, Sydney ‘Herald’ annotates, has
now only five permanent residents.”
When Evatt ends the Means Test —
I’ll be a hundred then —
I’ll give the city jungle best
And its inhuman men ;
Old-age will then be highly prized
For its access of moola.
Arid seeking somewhere civilised
I’ll live in Borroloola.
The population’s only five;
With me, it will be six.
There’s won’t be any bodgie jive
Or any vulgar flicks ;
No courses to entice a bet.
No night-club hula-hula —
Instead we’ll run a string sextet
In cultured Borroloola.
No Evatt dream-home, forms to fill,
Or waiting to begin —
Newcomers seeking houses will
Do old householders in;
For though they may admonish you
Or put you in the cooler,
They can’t find twelve good men and true
For trials in Borroloola.
No crowded trams and trains; no queues;
No toll-gates taking coin ;
No toughs demanding union-dues
Or forcing you to join —
For there’s a definition that
Was never taught in school —“a
Six-man proletariat” —
No, not in Borroloola I
Well, there’s no need for taking-off
Before we meet our fences;
The prospect may not be so tough —
There’s more than hope for Menzies;
And should our country be accursed
With Evatt as its ruler,
We’ll all achieve at least the worst
Of life at Borroloola.
N.S.W.
R. McCUAIG.
252 George-street, Sydney.


TO what absurd depths has the control
of foreign exchange, with its
corollary of licences and permits, sunk!
Sonic time ago 1 wanted to present an
aboriginal skull to a museum in British
East Africa. I found it was necessary to
procure an export licence. Today, I wish
to buy two Latin books from a large
English retail bookshop. The books are
out of print, and hard to get anywhere ;
in Australia, impossible. I waited for 18
months until they were available second-
hand. Now, in order to remit the money
—3os. sterling—l must get an import
licence! —“Gor Don.”
* ❖
“Tidak Makan”: The other night a
fellow-passenger on the ferry tripped-up
on the pronunciation of the word “in-
dictable.” He is an ex-Austrian and
speaks better English than nine out of
ten Australians. Our subsequent discus-
sion on the intricacies of English as she
is spoke led to his producing a wallet.
He extracted half-a-dozen newspaper
clippings to demonstrate the difficulties
of English. One cutting was from a
Tasmanian paper of just over ten years
back. The headline was: “Government
Move in New Norfolk Sewerage.” A
more recent cutting from the Sydney
“Daily Mirror” read; “Police Act on
Garbage Dump.”
} *X* *** ***
“Geham”: A “telegraphic” error is not
always (as in B. 5/5/’54) caused by a
drifted dot or a clipped dash. The rapidly-
disappearing “key-pounding” method of
transmission is the least productive of
mutilation. The telephonic link is the
chief offender. Two instances spring to
mind—one of a country cop who wired
headquarters, “My troop mare foaled
“Only a bill.”
this morning please send replacement,”
only to receive a curt query from the
superintendent: “Who authorised sale of
horse?” ; the other of a fruit-merchant
who tracked a mystifying advice, “Grace
confined today,” back to the original
telegram, “Grapes consigned today.” Bad
writing also plays its part, and once con-
verted a telegram signifying intention to
“back the chairman” into a homicidal
declaration that the sender proposed to
“bash the Chinaman.” I know, too, of
an instance in which a touch-typing slip
on a teletype keyboard elevated the
accommodation offered to an employee
from “free living” to “free loving.”
+♦♦ *X*
“P.0.M.C.”: The ill-starred French
campaign in Indo-China produced an-
other heroic woman besides Genevieve de
Galard-Tarraube, captured with the Dien-
bienphu defenders —tiny Captain Valerie
Edmee Andre, pilot, surgeon and licensed
paratrooper, who used a
helicopter last year to drop
into the thick of the fight-
ing to tend badly-wounded
and whisk them out to
base hospital. Shortly after
landing at Saigon in 1949
“Mademoiselle le docteur”
parachuted into an almost
inaccessible post and there
treated typhus for several
weeks; it was the march
back through jungle with
men and pack-animals
which prompted her to use
a helicopter when one be-
came available. She has
since performed brain
operations under fire and
run the gauntlet through
enemy lines with wounded.
She wears the ribbons of
the Croix de Guerre and
Chevalier of the Legion of
Honour and, with the
Dienbienphu angel of
mercy, simply repeats the
historical knack of France
of producing heroines in
her direst hours of need.
“Harrovian”: Amir Amin Didi of the
Maidive Islands (B. 5/5/’54) released
Maldivian women who had, until 1951,
been in strict purdah. In January, 1953,
these women voted at the elections and
not only secured seats in the Senate and
the “House of the People” but were suffi-
ciently powerful to elect a woman as
President of the Senate and another as
Speaker of the Lower House. Though
women here have had the vote for so
much longer they haven’t yet got any-
where near that.
♦♦♦
“Malua”: Add to that list of “P.M.”
abbreviations (B. 28/4/’54) the descrip-
tion written on many a South Australian
jar of home-made jam; P.M. Marmalade.
Stands for the type of oranges used, Poor
Man.
* ❖ *
“Sister Ellell”: I was speeding down
the highway when in my rear-vision
mirror I spied a speed-cop
sitting-in behind me. He
choofed ahead, and pulled
me into the kerb. After a
deal of parley-vous, it
seemed that I had exceeded
the speed-limit at a main-
highway crossing. I knew
that I’d seen him before,
but the complete mental
picture eluded me, until,
suddenly, it slipped into
focus. Anticipating that his
next question must surely
be my name, I called him by
his. He looked at me dumb-
founded, and then asked me
for “the drill.” I gave it to
him: “Back in ’46 you were
fed-up with the boredom of
a base hospital, and blew
through on your afternoon
leave. There was, 1 recall,
a good deal of backing and
filling on my part when the
C.O. did his night round.”
He grinned in recognition.
“So,” I clinched, “on the
maxim that by casting your
bread on the waters, it will
come back buttered toast,
may I presume that this is
the toast?” His answer was
to kick his bike into action.
“0.W.W.”: A continuous-performance
record seems to have been established by
a Wellington (N.Z.) restaurant (the Hot
Dog). For nearly 20 years the doors
have not been closed day or night; a very
mixed lot of customers, from all walks
of life, can get a feed at any hour.
* *l* *l*
“Pawang”: London “Medical World,”
which devoted a 140-page issue to the
problem of smoking and lung-cancer,
ended-up with a demand for a Govern-
ment campaign to stop young people
taking to smoking. I am right behind the
journal, but how is it going to do it? It
points out that to acquire the habit of
smoking over 25 cigarettes a day is to
shorten the odds of dying of lung-cancer
before the age of 55 from one in 1000 to
one in 50. One would think that this
terrifying warning would put anybody off
smoking completely, but there were
equally terrifying Warnings extant when
I was a boy—it shortened your life, etc. —
and they were supposed to have scientific
"Try this for size, young filly."
backing, but they didn’t stop me or any
other boy of my acquaintance from
pinching our fathers’ cigars and having
ago behind the woodshed. Failing that,
pieces of tree-root or Grandma’s cane-
chair would serve. The absolute prohibi-
tion only made it more alluring. At 68
I am still shortening my life at the rate
of 30 to 40 coffin-nails per diem.
“Drocnoc”: Supplementary to “Naru-
mee’s” complaint (B. 14/4/’54) of small,
cramped abbreviations in metropolitan
telephone-directories and “Postscript’s”
guess (B. 28/4/’54) that splitting the book
would be the only, if dubious, alterna-
tive, the garrulous Dame now asserts
that this, in fact, could happen to a not-
too-distant Sydney edition. She foresees
the pink pages of classified professions,
trades, etc., being done as a separate
volume.
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Don’t know whether the Greek
physician Hippocrates was a snob, but
the wives of most of his successors in
Australia seem to be. Notice how they
almost invariably use “Doctor” when
referring to the old man, be he humble
M.B. or something more advanced? It’s
“Doctor this,” and “Doctor that,” on all
occasions, social or otherwise. I know
one who when phoning trades-people
starts off: “It’s Mrs. Doctor Psmith
speaking.” One who asked whether she
had noticed how the Queen invariably
referred to “My husband” when speak-
ing of the Duke of Edinburgh was
knocked flat by the reply: “Oh, but he’s
not. a doctor!” '
“W.P.T.”: In odd corners of Sydney
and suburbs a surprising number of
graves are to be found outside recog-
nised cemeteries, and there are many
more unmarked. In thickly-populated
Vaucluse there is the grave of William
Charles Wentworth, who is buried be-
neath a rock on which he used to sit and
gaze out over the harbor; near St.
Philip’s church on Church Hill is the
grave of Bishop Kirby, and there are
numerous others. In the south-east corner
of Sydney Botanical Gardens is the un-
marked grave of Joseph Gerrald, one of
the Scottish martyrs, who was transported
to Botany Bay in January, 1794. He
bought a piece of land at Farm Cove,
now part of the Gardens, and when he
died only two years later he asked to be
buried there. He was; but 1 doubt if
today anyone knows where this man’s
grave is.
♦♦♦ * ♦♦♦
“D.L.A.”: Soviet propagandists having
claimed that Russians were responsible
for most of the world’s inventions and
scientific discoveries, it’s strange they
haven’t cited the genuinely Russian
origin of a phrase that’s now part of
every language—the term “fifth-column,
This is often claimed to have originated
in the Spanish Civil War. Franco was
reported as declaring that he had four
columns operating against Madrid, and
a fifth column of secret sympathisers m-
side the city. He may have made the
statement, but the term was coined in the
late 18th century by the Russian general
Suvarov, He was besieging the Turkish
stronghold of Ismail on the Danube, in
Bessarabia. The population was mainly
what are now called Rumanians, Greek
Orthodox in creed, like the besieging
Russians, and hostile to their Moslem
Turkish masters. After the city fell
Suvarov reported to Catherine the
Great that the “fifth-column” he had
organised secretly inside the fort had been
of great assistance in capturing it.
* ❖
“Aedo”: One of the early Anglican
convents was established at Clewer*
within sight of Windsor Castle, and Mac
Mother Superior was a lady who had
formerly occupied a position at tke court
of Queen Victoria. The Queen, in a
personal dilemma between visiting her
former friend and appearing to give
countenance to a Church aspect she didn’t
like, solved the problem by making her
visit strictly incognito, and giving orders
that the Sisters were not to make any
acknowledgment of her presence. But
as she passed down a corridor with the
Lady Superior every Sister she met
stepped aside and bowed low! When she
reached the room where she was to take
tea the Queen demanded an explanation.
Very mildly the Lady Superior explained
that the Sisters had been paying the cus-
tomary respect to herself. The bows
were not meant for Victoria at all!
♦♦♦ * *t*
“Giris”: Down from Sydney on holi-
day, and staying at a city hotel, Dot was
escorted to supper by a man friend. Hav-
ing run out of cigaretes, she asked the
waitress to bring some. “Are you a guest,
madam? What room are you in?” Satis-
fied, the waitress left, and later returned.
She asked, “Single or double, madam?”
Dot flushed, floundered and looked to
her friend for help. Then came the anti-
climax : “I mean, single or double packet,
madam?”
<i* ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: When Joseph Banks died in
1820 the original MSS. of his journal
giving an account of his collecting-trip to
Newfoundland in 1766 (B. 21/4/’54) was
left, with a stack of other papers, to
Robert Brown, the botanist. When
Brown died in 1858 these papers were
placed in the care of the British Museum.
In 1886 they were handed over to the
great-nephew of Lady Banks, Lord
Brabourne, who had them auctioned at
Sotheby’s, where they fetched a paltry
£lB3, the Newfoundland journal going
for a few shillings. Later it was pur-
chased by S. W. Silver, a London book-
collector. When he died the S.A. branch
of the Royal Geographical Society bought
his library, including the Banks manu-
script, and that is how it came to be now
housed at the society’s rooms on North
Terrace, Adelaide. In 1953 a photostat
copy was sent to the Canadian Archives
in Ottawa, and now John W. Pickersgill.
Secretary of State for Canada, is arrang-
ing to have it published for the first time.
SYDNEY FABLE
Sing a song of popsies,
Pockets full of brass,
Four-and-twenty wool-kings
Dancing on the grass.
Four-and-twenty maidens
Dancing on the green,
Four-and-twenty policemen
Say it is obscene.
Four-and-twenty columnists
In a Greyhound bus,
Four-and-twenty lawyers
Raise an awful fuss.
Four-and-twenty judges,
Sitting in divorce,
Four-and-twenty wives now
Living at King’s Cross.
N.S.W.
J. F.


PERSONAL ITEMS
A wise bird is due to settle in Navy
Office, nest of Fourth Naval Member —
Commodore D. Mcl. Russell, Royal
Navy. His job to look after our naval
flying, Russell is himself a fully-quali-
fied pilot, now in command of British
carrier Theseus, of Korean sortie-records.
Earlier Commander (Air) of Implacable,
in War II he was, among other things.
Commander (Flying) of Indomitable.
• •
Having recently, on the one tour,
played before audiences in England, Hol-
land, France, Switzerland, Egypt, Nor-
way, Portugal and Finland, Jan Smeter-
lin wasn’t at all worried about Bulletin
reps, and others being present while he
rehearsed for his A.B.C. concerts in
Sydney, It may interest pianistic tyros to
leam that even he had to play one phrase
seven times before he was satisfied he
had it right.
Though he has been playing and liking
it well enough for most of his life (start-
ing against the wishes of his lawyer
father, whose maxim was: “Music is
beautiful to live for, but not to live on”),
the visitor drifts away from the key-
board at every opportunity, and reckons
his most interesting tour was a recent
one through Java. Keen to see the coun-
try, he visited the famed Pasteur Insti-
tute in Bandoeng, renowned as much for
its clutch of King cobras as for its pro-
duction of serums. The director was most
helpful, and, on Smeterlin’s request to
see one of the deadly beasties, had a
native boy bring one in—held in a pair
of tongs, which he obligingly opened.
Smeterlin admits he turned the
PIANIST
color of the surrounding jungle. “It’s
quite all right,” assured the director,
airily, “he attacks only in daylight.”
“So?” queried Smeterlin, backing. “Per-
haps he is blind! ”
At Medan, in Sumatra, one bright
lamp was left burning over the piano.
The inevitable happened—the insects fell
in a burnt cloud, and under the pianist’s
busy fingers the white keys changed color.
He was wrapped in a Chopin nocturne,
when a dive-bombing mossie changed all
that. The interesting performance ended
with a flying-fox doing side-slips round
the packed hall.
Smeterlin’s house in London repre-
sents pretty well his extensive travelling
—it holds, among other mementoes,
tropical fish, an Afghan hound and an
Italian houseboy. Generally an exponent
of the more romantic forms of music,
Smeterlin has a close affinity with Chopin
—he is a noted player of him. And is, as
Frederic was, a Pole.
• •
Retiring from editorship of the Wes-
tralian “Farmers’ Weekly,” F. R. Mercer,
for more than half a century an Inky
Wayfarer in the West, and a solid social-
welfare worker.
• •
The citation supplementing Essington
Lewis’s appointment, in 1943, to the
Order of Companions of Honor, read, in
part: “No Australian has given more
unreservedly of his talents and energies in
the service of his country or rendered
greater service in the production of
weapons for the defence of Australia.” Jn
London the other day the Institution of
Mining and Metallurgy awarded its Gold
Medal, the highest honor it can bestow,
on the one-time chairman of 8.H.P.,
referring to his “long and distinguished
services to the mining and metallurgical
industries of Australia.” Taken together,
the citations sum the man up pretty
adequately.
The first Flying Dentist set out from
Melbourne the other day to take the first
fang-farrying service to the Outback-
Frank Meldrum, retired Collins-street
dentist. With his wife as nurse, and a
technician, he will be stationed at the
Flying Doctor Base at Wyndham; will
fly to outlying districts with Air Beef, and,
for the rest, will go the rounds by utility-
truck and motor-boat, the latter to take
him to the B.H.P. works at Yampi Sound.
His mobile unit will cover Hall’s Creek,
Fitzroy Crossing, Broome, Derby, 17
other outposts and 40 stations,
• •
Mort Hudson first picked the sea for his
career, had his second-mate’s ticket at 21,
then changed sea-horses for the conven-
tional breed, jackerooing in Queensland.
Out-of-saddle he took a correspondence-
course in farming, and with what he’d
saved and learnt bought a farm in the
peanut district of Kingaroy (Q.). Shortly
he’ll take to travel again, this time as an
official delegate selected to visit the U.S.
and U.K. under the International Farm
Youth Exchange Scheme. He’s 25,
• •
“F.S.”: Melbourne architects must have
been somewhat disconcerted to find Walter
Gropius, the “father” of modern architecture,
getting ecstatic over the century-old rows of
terrace-houses opposite the Exhibition Building,
which they regard as hopelessly out of fashion.
Gropius took not the slightest interest in the
copies of the latest U.S. styles, some of them
his own, He liked the iron lacework and the
light verandas of the old houses, and saw in
them a peculiarly Australian type of housing
which should have been developed.
One architect quoted him as saying that
utility was the only aim of modern architecture
and that a house was a machine for living.
“Functionalism?” grunted Gropius. “Bun-
kum!”
His idea is that the rule of order which
creates beauty in nature should follow through
in man’s work. As to whether his philosophy
is exemplified in his buildings is another matter
—Nature was never as arid as most of his
houses —but at 80 he is as full of fight as ever.
He was the leading archied in Germany when
Hitler erupted, but, unfortunately for Gropius,
the Fiihrer fancied himself as an architect and
didn’t like Gropius’s stuff at all. The Fascists
called his architecture Communist and the
Communists called it Fascist, so he went to
England and then to the U.S., where, with his
great school in which master and pupils worked
together not only over the drawing-board but
on building, he started the modern movement.
Sydney University nailed on an addi-
tion to Gropius’s reputation, already
lofty—an honorary Doctorate of Science.
This makes the American the first archi-
tect to be thus honored by the Sydney
institution.
• •
In Melbourne to advise the Adult
Education people on how to make the
most of the Elizabethan Trust, Ernest
Burbridge, a governor of the Shakspeare
Memorial Theatre and British Council
rep. in Australia. At the Assembly Hall
he gave the general public a verbal blue-
print and the committee a copy at a lun-
cheon. During and after War II he took
well over a century of classes ifi dramatic
art at Stratford, remembered by many
students from Australia. While in Mel-
bourne he’s due to open an exhibition
of paintings for his friend lan Bow, and
will stop at Wagga (N.S.W.) on his way
back to Sydney, to speak there. He feels
that Wagga is a “must”—after hearing
8.8. C. comedian Rex Dixon, the Aus-
tralian who has made Wagga Wagga as
well-known in England as Wigan.
• •
Retiring from the Victorian Railways
after 49 years, Comptroller Leslie Stewart.
In that post he calculated his yearly spend-
ings at the rate of tens of millions; be-
tween 1951 and 1952, for instance, he
authorised buying-contracts worth £lB
million. His final orgy was the beginnings
of Operation Phoenix, which, trans-
lated, means rehabilitation. This will
amount to £BO million. It will be carried
on by F. Orchard, who moves up from
chief-clerk.
• •
“Angas”: Rowellyn Ramsay, installed
as moderator of the Kirk in Queensland,
has a pair of fierce eyes, an upstanding
crop of hair and a chin which could give
pause to the De’il himself. He’s already
had a shot at devilry—when, as a Gordon
Highlander, he fought against Wilhelm
and had nine months in a p.-0.-w. camp.
After that he entered the ministry, and
came missionising to Australia in 1933.
Minister of Ithaca (Q.) Church when
Hitler had his crack, he again joined up,
this time in chaplain’s garb. After that
war, at 46, he entered Queensland Univer-
sity, and left it with a B.A. in Philosophy
added to the Commerce Bachelorship
taken 25 years earlier at Aberdeen Uni-
versity. He takes over now from the Rt.
Rev. W. McPheat, of Townsville.
“Skip”: Mr. Cain won’t be able to stop
the awarding of a title to Henry Laid-
law a 59-year-old Melburnian who has
inherited that of 20th Baronet of
Pitreavie, Scotland, on the death of his
father. A senior executive in estate-
agent T. M. Burke’s office, Sir Henry is
staying where he is, and sending to Eng-
land for his coat-of-arms.
• •
Appointed reader in theoretical physics
at the Westralian University, Dr. R. B,
Dingle, first to hold that post. His 28
years’ scientific career has included post-
graduate research at Cambridge and
Bristol Universities, and the publication
of some 30 monographs on mechanics,
the theory of metals and the properties
of helium 11. He holds a post-doctorial
Fellowship in the Canadian equivalent ot
our C.5.1.R.0. In the new appointment
he should do valuable work for the
University’s physics - research depart-
ment.
• •
Few men had a wider experience in
Government departments than Auber
Octavius Neville, who has passed on in
Perth at 78. His 43 years’ service started
in 1897. As secretary of the Tourist
Trade and Immigration Department he
attended to the housing of more than
40,000 new arrivals and helped to place
the breadwinners among them on the land
or in industry. While in the Chief
Secretary’s Department he performed an
important service to the State in unearth-
ing many original records going back to
1828, including the warrant and commis-
sion issued by William IV to the first
W.A. Governor, Captain Stirling. The
records, now bound in 500 volumes, have
found a lasting-place in the State Archives.
During War I Neville was organising-
secretary of a patriotic fund which gave
assistance to dependants of soldiers, but
his real life-work lay in looking after the
welfare of aborigines, first as Chief Pro-
tector from 1915 to 1936, thereafter, till
his retirement in 1940, as Commissioner
for Native Affairs.
• •
“Pip Tok”: Alex Lillico (B. 28/4/’54),
who did not nominate for the Tasmanian
Assembly, is two years younger than
Frank Welsh, the Westralian M.L.C. who
also reckons he’s had enough. Eighty-
three, sporting a neatly-trimmed beard,
Welsh first entered the Westralian Assem-
bly as Country-party member for Pilbara
20 years back.
• •
In Australia under the Services ex-
change-plan, Group-Captain H. H. Hillier,
R.A.F., one of the few of his Service
who’ve been the other side of the “iron-
curtain” as a guest—when, for 12 months
in War 11, he was in Moscow with a
British military mission. Other war acti-
vities took in bombing with Bomber Com-
mand, and planning with Air Command
in South-East Asia. He made his first
landing in Australia on a 10-days’ visit
shortly, after Japan threw-in. This time
he expects to stay two years.
• •
When Alec Briskham was appointed
Registrar of Companies in South Aus-
tralia in 1927 he could claim that, at 33,
he was the youngest holder of that office
in the British Empire. At 60, he is the
senior Registrar. When the McArthur
trust-company scandals broke in the early
1930’s Briskham was appointed a royal
commissioner on trust companies, and
as a result of his report the company laws
PHILATELIST
in several States were tightened-up.
When the keen eyes depicted here by
Coventry are not studying company
records they are poring over the perfora-
tions and watermarks of postage-stamps.
Their owner is one of the foremost coh
lectors in Australia, and is a Fellow of
the Royal Philatelic Society—one of
eight Australians who can claim that
distinction.
It would seem a moral that a man with
as genial a grin as that on the phiz of
Garnet Buss (appended hereunder), could
go without human companionship about
as easily as he could go without his pants.
And it is so. Bom in Bundaberg (Q ),
now boss of Buss and Turner (the first
general traders to start in the town, 1876),
Buss has been in Rotary for close on 30
years, served in Havana as district-gover-
nor in 1940-41, and has attended seven
PHILODEMIST
international conventions of the move-
ment overseas. When not rotating for
Rotary he satisfies his gregarious nature
with membership of the home-town’s
organisations, having been in turn on its
City Council, Chamber of Commerce,
Mercantile Association and Show Society
and held executive positions in pretty well
every sporting and social club. Golf’s his
vice.
• •
Off to Europe on a busman’s holiday,
James Isaac Mann, Westralian farmer, Old
Digger, legislator, who served in Pales-
tine with the 10th Light Horse and look-
up land in the Avon Valley under the
first soldier-settlement scheme. He went
into the Westralian Assembly in 1930 as
Country-party member for Beverley and
has held that seat (now called Avon
Valley) ever since. While abroad he will
look over farms in Britain and western
Europe, to get the latest score on pig-
raising and other aspects of animal
husbandry.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Taumutu, Canterbury (N.Z.), at 87, Dick
Taiaroa, one of two survivors of the famous
Maori Rugby team which toured England in
1888. Of the 107 matches played the combina-
tion lost 23. He represented the Maoris at the
Coronations of Edward VII and George V,
served in the Boer war, and was in Mafeking
at the armistice. Five years ago he was
awarded 0.8. E. Hori Kerei Taiaroa, his
father, sat in both Houses of Parliament.
In Cornwall (Eng.), at 89, George von Haast,
son of Sir Julius von Haast, first curator of
Canterbury Museum (N.Z.). After his father s
death in 1886, he went from Christchurch to
Europe to study art and attained considerable
repute as a painter in oils.
At 69, Allen Durrant Allwright, the first
white child born at Union Reefs, near Pine
Creek (N.T.), an area famed in its time for
some of Australia’s richest reefs. Miner and
diamond-driller, he had a working knowledge
of #nost of the mineral fields of the Territory.
In Sydney, A. G. Copeland, with Mutual
Life for 65 years, and, at the end, a director
of the company. A bowler of note, president
of Warringah B.C, for three terms, he carried
off the club’s singles championship six times,
and in 1916 skippered the rink which won the
State Fours Championship.
In the Channel Islands, at 76, Canon John
Russell Wilford, graduate of Cambridge and
Trinity College (Dublin), who shifted to New
Zealand in 1904 for 27 years of serving the
C. of E. in Canterbury. St. George’s Hospital,
College House and Victory Memorial School
were buildings owing much to his labors. Among
his posts were canon of Christchurch Cathedral
and president of the C. of E. Active Service
League. Author of several works on church
and historical affairs of the province, he had
lived in retirement for 20 years.
In Sydney, at a meeting of Woollahra Coun-
cil, of which he had been a member for 30
years, Hugh Latimer, twice mayor of the
municipality. Son of a former M.L.C., and
himself in the Upper House for the past 20
years, he was an accountant by profession, an
Old Fortian and sometime vice-president of the
ISI.S.W. Local Government Association.
In Bathurst (N.S.W.), at 80, Sir Robert
Wade, one of Australia’s outstanding men or
medicine, with particular interest m the ills
of children. Since he was a young resident
at Royal Prince Alfred in 1896 he had served
as resident or honorary in every big hospital m
Sydney and had chaired or been a member or
every medical organisation of importance in
State. Knighted in 1938 for his distinguished
contribution to medicine, he was a brother ot
barrister Sir Charles Wade, former N.S.
Premier. '
At 89, in Brisbane, Charles Elliott, stock-
broker, for more than 60 years on Bnsban
’Change; he served two terms as its president.


THERE’S NO BUSINESS LIKE TOW BUSINESS!


IN SUNNY DAYS OF WINTER
Now that the sunny days of winter are with me
I feel myself down amidst the roots of the
grasses,
down where all life has its beginning and
ending;
I feel myself amidst the roots of the grasses,
feeding on humus amid'the warm black blanket
of decay,
the diet of decomposed leaves, of last year’s
weeds,
of chemicals manufactured in those blind
factories,
the bellies of tirelessly working worms.
This is the diet on which all living forever
feasts,
the fertility that is skin-deep upon the world
—rotted weeds, rocks fretted down to mart
crumbled leaves, twigs fallen and perished,
earth transmuted by blind chemistry of
worms—
the humus-rich nine inches that enwraps the
earth,
and upon which feeds everything that lives,
all beasts and birds, man, and all green
creatures.
Now that the sunny days of winter are with me
I am deep amidst the roots of the grasses,
where everything but steel and concrete and
ledgers
have their beginning and ending,
and without which even they, even they,
would be less powerful and more meaningless
than the fractured ploughshare and the broken
adze,
more blind and meek and vacant of conscious
purpose
than the burrowing and all-powerful worm
that down in his dark and fertile universe
toils tirelessly amidst the roots of the grasses
where in these sunny days of winter I have
hidden my thoughts
that they too may feed upon the diet that
sustains the world.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
ABORIGINALITIES
nrHERE was a number-one commotion
in this neck of New Guinea
when Sigi discovered the loss of half-
a-dozen prized kina-shells. Acting on in-
formation received he went to Apa’s
house and found the stolen goods. There
was a big audience when Sigi berated the
culprit.
“This is a dreadful thing you’ve done,
Apa,” he shouted. “1 am going to tell
the Government about you, and the Gov-
ernment will put you in the calaboose for
a long time! The policeman will shave off
your hair and your beard and make you
work like a woman and will beat you
with sticks! You have brought great
shame on yourself!”
“Do you really mean to do this?”
asked Apa, somewhat shaken.
“I’m going to do it now!” yelled Sigi.
“You’ll see! And you’ll be sorry!”
All Sigi’s people followed Apa down
the road echoing these sentiments loudly.
Apa’s people, at a moral disadvantage,
had nothing to say.
That night Apa hanged himself. Next
morning, plastered with clay and uttering
great wails of mourning, Apa’s people
hounded Sigi along the road shrieking
abuse at him: “Now look what you're
done, you great pig! It’s all your fault —
you killed him! Now you should hang
yourself! ”
It’s up to Sigi now. If he doesn’t give
his own crowd a chance of screaming
back he’ll lose a lot of standing.—
“Ybsul.”
“B. A. Ker” : Looking over the repro-
ductions of Bulletin front-covers in Sep-
pelts’ Homeland in Picture and Story, I
was rather shaken by the information
about the donkeys, for the benefit of
visitors, drawing water per the treadwheel
at Carisbrooke Castle. The castle donkeys
are described as being noted for their
longevity: “In 1798 one died at the age
of 32 ; another died in 1851 aged 21.”
And the latest was 34 when he snuffed
out in 1947. I’ve always believed that
“not for donkey’s years” implied a con-
siderable span, but blowed if I can accept
34 as ancient. I’ve known three horses
to top that, while any amount of prads
have outlived the donk that turned it in
at 21.
♦ * * *
“Byramine”; Can’t help wondering
why Delaney didn’t point out to the
police that, as Sgt. Jardine fired the pistol
with the barrel in his mouth, the inside
of the mouth would have been damaged
by the powder-blast. If Delaney had fired,
the outside of the sergeant’s lips might
have been scorched if he had been close
enough, and the bullet would have almost
certainly knocked out one or more of his
teeth. Verdict —suicide.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A pumpkin sold in Perth
markets weighed 1871 b. and fetched a
tenner from a shopkeeper who saw it as
a drawcard. That’s a lot of pumpkin in
one skin, and the paper which described
it as a huge ironbark was probably right.
You don’t see many ironbarks over here
now. They’ve been replaced by the
Queensland Blue, which yields well and
grows to a good handy size that the
buyers can handle. But 30 years ago the
ironbark was the popular type. Aptly
named, it Sometimes had to be cut with
an axe; whole it would keep for twelve
months. But it was too big, some speci-
mens measuring a couple of feet across.
Market authorities say this present giant
is the largest pumpkin ever sold in Perth.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Although the bowyang
has passed on, a related adornment is fast
becoming fashionable among toilers who
wear shorts and handle gritty materials.
Like a miniature ballet-skirt with elastic
waist, it is worn on each shin just above
the working-boot so the “skirt” drops
over the upper. Some inventive brick-
carter started the fashion as a strictly
utilitarian measure. Bricks direct from
the kiln are invariably covered with dust
and grit, which drops off when the carter
is unloading on to a stack. In the days
before carters wore shorts, winter or sum-
mer, descending grit caused no inconveni-
ence ; today there is no trouser-leg to
prevent the sharp particles from dropping
between the boot-uppers and lower shins,
so something had to be done in the
interests of foot-comfort. As a result we
now have this always staggering spectacle
of some dusty, tough-looking, hairy-
chested brickcarter wearing a torn singlet,
dirty shorts, working-boots—and a frilly
little crinoline around the bottom of each
knobby, freckled leg!
* * * *
“Bass”; That figure for jarrah of 561 b.
weight per cubic foot (B. 21/4/’54) isn’t
“ This'll stop 'em!”
always right. Jarrah varies with the
locality in which it’s grown (and that
grown in some areas isn’t completely
resistant to white-ants). So we get jarrah
as light as 501 b. and as heavy as 641 b.
That figure puts it in the class of “Heres-
one’s” hardwoods that will sink in water.
At the same time it is light compared with
some of the really heavy Westralian tim-
bers—York-gum or gimlet, up to 681 b.,
tuart to 751 b., and salmon-gum and jam-
wood up to 791 b. Those timbers are all
tough and hard, and presumably if they
were tougher and harder they’d be
heavier. For that reason I’d like to have
figures for “dead-finish” and wodgil,
which are tougher and harder than they
are. “Dead-finish” is the hardest wood
I’ve chopped, and wodgil—the tree,
not the broad-leaf shrub —is the
“ Right-oh , pilot, let her go!”
toughest of all. I once hit a stump
with a scrub-roller and drew sparks with-
out budging it appreciably. Later I found
that the tree had been felled 40 years
earlier.
* * * #
“Pheasant”: Just read “Bogaduck”
(B. 27 /1 / ’54) on the giant fig-tree he saw
at Kerai, Atherton Tableland (N.Q.) and,
even at this late date, I can’t let it pass.
I gather “Bogaduck” was here in the
Army, so a slip is natural. It’s Karri, not
Kerai; and in that district there’s no
such tree. I’ve lived ten miles from Kairi
for six years now and, anyway, 1 pride
myself I know the Tableland. But just
to make sure I checked with all the old-
timers. The tree he means must be the
one between Yungaburra and Kulara, on
the bank of Petersen’s Creek. It’s a
beauty all right. The roots have reached
the ground, banyan-fashion, in two or
three layers from the central maze. But
there’s a small opening leading into, and
under, the tree, to a depth of eight or nine
feet. Inside it is a circular cavern walled
and sealed with roots and, in the middle,
two roots have grown together to form
a cross; hence the name “Cathedral Fig-
tree.” Diameter 30ft. would be pretty
near the mark ; also the foliage covering
an acre. But “Bogaduck” is wrong about
the height. Between 60ft. and 70ft. the
locals say,.not 150 ft. I think they’re right.
* * * *
“S.G.”; In a fishing-party just out of
Fremantle, a W.A. man was boasting to
some visitors about the catches he’d
made with indifferent bait. “The her-
ring’ll even bite at a piece of red cloth,”
he averred, and looked around for a piece
to demonstrate. There wasn’t any, but
one of the doubters suggested a piece of
tomato from the lunch-bag. The W.A.
bloke accepted the challenge, baited with
a piece of skin, and caught three herring
with it.
* * * ♦
“Emjai”: It’s open to doubt whether
the fine width of Ballarat’s Sturt-street
was designed to enable bullock-teams of
24-head to turn (B. 17/3/’54); but the
teamsters of the early mining days cer-
tainly had a hand otherwise in the
development of the city’s layout. Origin-
ally Dana-street, parallel to Sturt-street,
was intended to be the main thorough-
fare, but its very steep grade, after cross-
ing Yarrawee Creek, was anathema to
the bullockies, so they made their way
by winding track along what is now Main-
street, thence along the narrow Bridge-
street, and by easier grade into Sturt-
street. These streets today exemplify the
dislike of the retail trade for very wide
streets. In Sturt-street, with its double-
row of plantations and statuary, tram-
lines and double traffic-roads, the large
emporiums and institutions have re-
mained, but the route-march from one
side to the other deters shoppers, and
the more active retail section has gravi-
tated down east, to the very narrow
Bridge-street, where even a couple of
bullocks would find difficulty in turning.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Swimming on the back
(B. 28/4/’54)? Once, in attempting to
swim out to a wave-washed rock-bar, I
found myself within 15ft. of the goal, but
almost exhausted and quite incapable of
battling any closer. To turn on my back
was obviously the correct thing to do, but,
with the waves breaking over me, the
logical way to stop being drowned seemed
to be to float with feet towards the
breakers. It didn’t work —1 took a slosher
full in the upturned face, and was in no
condition to cope with it. Coughing and
spluttering, I trod-water, then found
myself floating again, hoping desperately
that I’d catch a couple of deep breaths
before the next one broke over my head.
Nothing happened ; I bobbed like a cork,
but not even a wavelet splashed my face.
It took some time before the answer pre-
sented itself: I’d got head-on to the waves
and they were lifting my head but break-
ing on my feet. And in that way I was
able to paddle leisurely to the wave-swept
bar.
* * * *
“A.S.R.”: News that radar will warn
of approaching cyclones recalls that, early
in the Pacific war, we once spent puzzled
hours peering into our radar-screens at
an ominous echo approaching our con-
voy ; its speed of 45 knots was too fast
for surface craft and too slow for air-
craft. We tracked it until, at 15 miles, it
weakened and vanished. A n Y one who has
been in a corvette on a black and stormy
tropical night can imagine the tension
when radar loses the target at such critical
range. Some time later the back-room
boys came to light with the answer: “A
heavy rainstorm associated with, an in-
tense tropical cyclone.” We were asked
to record all future “anomalous propa-
gation,” as an aid to keeping tab of that
tropical killer the cyclone.
* * * *
“Kelms”; The chap who was lost near
Norseman (W.A.) and found after
eleven days of wandering (B. 28/4/’54)
was only just alive. The native trackers
who’d followed him for nearly 200 miles
said he hadn’t lain down for over three
days. That effort would be remarkable
in a fit, fresh man, but in a man weakened
by eight days of wandering without food
or water it’s miraculous. After watching
him in hospital for a couple of days the
doctors gave him a fair chance of living,
and within a week he was out of danger.
He doesn’t remember anything about his
ordeal, which is just as well, but those
last three days show how an indomitable
will can drive a body. Before blacking-
out, his mind ordered his body to keep
moving, and the body obeyed automatic-
ally. Days before he was found the
searchers were agreed that if he lay down
he’d die.


'•TALKING about horse-lovers, how’s
this? When I was leaving an N.S.W.
south-coast town an old Salvation Army
man with whom I had been friendly came
to say good-bye. He was carrying a
small calico-bag which he placed on the
floor—a parting gift, he said, but first I
must hear his story. For years his horse
Pegasus had faithfully carried him all
over the countryside, but Time eventually
brought him to a standstill. “I couldn’t
turn him out to starve,” the S.A. man
said, “so I sent him off proud.” He took
him to the blacksmith for a good set of
shoes, then rode him home and shot
him. My present? The shod hooves !
D. Jay.”
* * * *
“Emjai”: Pictures of marbles cham-
pionships seem to show the “champs,”
like kids one sees in back-streets now-
adays, firing “funny-knuckle.” Ye gods!
It wouldn’t have done in our old mining-
town days. The little kids played “Fat,”
in which “funny-knuckle,” with fore-
finger around the thumb, might get by,
but “Big-ring” was the game for the
experts. With one-legged stance outside
a 10ft. ring, with stakes in the centre,
they fired from the cocked-up knee, and
the one and only effective knuckle-action
was to wrap the second finger tight around
the first joint of the thumb, with the
“tor” held between the tip of the first
finger and knuckle of the thumb. Then
maximum tension, flip, and away it goes
fast and true as a bullet! These “funny-
knuckle” champs would have lost all their
“dakes” in a day.
• * * *
“Ithaca”: Shakspeare would have
backed-up that Aboite who heard a
starling imitating his postie’s-whistle. In
“Henry IV, Part I” Hotspur says:
“I’ll have a starling shall be taught to speak
Nothing but Mortimer, and give it him,
To keep his anger still jn motion.”
* * • if
“Lower Tops’l”; Port Davey, that
lonely, awe-inspiring fiord-like harbor on
the south of Tasmania’s rugged west coast,
now has a link with modernism —a con-
tract airmail service to the few homes
in the area. In fact, during the summer
pilot Lloyd Jones, from Cambridge air-
field, carrying hikers and their supplies,
“And would you mind getting me set for five-bob each Way on
Catastrophic on Saturday , Doctor?”
has dropped the local folk as many as
three mails a week. Not that the local
folk are so very many: Charlie King and
his family, working an alluvial-tin show
at Malaluca River (south of Bathurst
Harbor), and Clyde Clayton, a son-in-
law, who has built a house at Bond Bay,
25 miles away, and in his large fishing-
smack, Arlie D., ships ore as well as fish,
When I first knew “Davey” 30 years ago
it was even more lonesome—l’d have
nominated it as quite the loneliest spot
in all Australia, visited only rarely by
Hobart fishing-vessels after trumpeter,
Yet it hadn’t always been so. More than
70 years back it was one of the whaling-
ports Q f t d e wor i d . The harbor had then
known as many as 14 whalers at anchor
and the grey-granite slopes ot Mount
Misery had reverberated to the thump of
coopers’ hammers as they headed-up
casks of whale-oil.
* *
“Plato”: The true story of the Vlaming
plate (B. 5/5/’54) is that, after an exten-
sive correspondence, it was located by
R. A. Crouch, a member of the Historical
Society of Victoria, in the Academy of
in ** through the
efforts of the H.S.V. was returned to
Canberra in 1947; a replica was for-
warded to the society. On June 5, 1950,
the original plate was presented by the
Commonwealth Government to the trus-
tees of the Public Library Museum, Art
Q a y er y Q £ Western Australia. It is now
ex hibit e d there, together with a replica
Qf Dirk H ’ art( f g plate and the two
posts which were removed from Dirk
Tolo _.j tons
Hart0 8 Island m 1908 '
* * * *
“Kelms”: That Queensland shire which
imported billygoats with the idea of
increasing the milk-yield (B, 21/4/’54)
should take warning from the experience
of a W.A. goat-farmer. His prize Saanen
billy, an aristocrat of the breed, had the
two blind teats with which every billy of
this breed is equipped. When these
started to swell and became sore the
owner investigated, and now Billy has to
be milked every day. He doesn’t like it,
and both he and his owner are wonder-
jng where it’s leading to. This sort of
t hi ng has happened in England, where
they go in for Saanen goats in a big in-
dustry, but this is the first reported case
j n Australia. Seems to stress what can
be accomplished by, and the dangers that
fie in, breeding for one particular purpose,
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Florence Nightingale now
has followers among the native girls of
New Guinea. About 75 of them are work-
ing as trainees or hospital assistants in
mission and Administration hospitals and
infant-welfare centres. Not many are
well-enough educated to reach recog-
nised nursing standards, but they will be
able to dc invaluable work when they
return to their own villages after training,
They are creating a precedent in the Ter-
ritory, where it’s still a sharp break with
native tradition for a girl to leave home
for any other reason than marriage. Its
been proved already that they can over-
come more quickly than European nurses
the problem of persuading natives to
abandon ancient customs and supersti-
tions which block adoption of modern
“One or two adjustments and I've mastered this remote-control ."
medical principles in the care of women
and children.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: There is one road left
in Victoria where places aren’t called
after politicians or spots in Britain—the
102 miles through the virgin East Gipps-
land bush from the railhead at Orbost to
Mallacoota Inlet. Whether the names
used are any improvement is another
matter. Besides the hamlets of Bellbird,
Cabbage Tree, Cann River and Gipsy
Point, you pass Double Creek, Fat Cow
Creek, Cape Horn, Cool Water, Smoky
River, then Thurra, Dead Horse and
Yacca Gum Creeks. Also, Growler’s
Gully and Euchre Creek Valley, which
seem reminiscent of Bret Harte.
*
T w „. A p Prfh huildine erected
W.J.W. . A Perth build ng
nearly a century ago is being demolished
and there’s keen bidding tor some ot the
old timber. Much of it has the marks or
a crosscut-saw, evidence that it was sawn
in the old saw-pits before the advent of
circular-saws. That must have been
devilish work. A pit was dug, the tree
felled across it, the top lopped, and the
trunk sawn down its length. The saw was
operated by two men one on top and
one below, and the underdog had all the
dust—which, on a hot, sultry day, would
be plenty. Some of the work was done by
convicts, but settlers also did their share
and seemed to think it all in the day’s
work. Occasionally, now, a suburban
home-builder, clearing his quarter-acre
block, comes across one of the old saw-
pits nearly big enough to hold a house
and wonders why anyone would dig such
a hole there. Perth’s few remaining old
buildings are the answer.
THE STARLINGS
The starlings in the pines of cloud
Called disunited in each note,
And piled the air with bedlam made
Of melody in remnants, sweet
But metreless and formless, bright
But broken in the throat.
Perching and plunging in bungled flight,
They piped in boughs of restlessness.
Bird on bird I heard that night—
Colliding voices in cloud and tree,
Calling for cadence as for a loss
Or thinking to set it free.
Then in my sight the high pines sang
In a tall and muted tenor wrought
To the birds’ relief by the beating ring
Of resonant desire, and clear,
In the great embodiment of thought,
Made the melody entire.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
A MAHER OF SELECTION
// I . %A,S there anything in the letter-
\ A / box? asked Agapanthus.
\i V tossed the envelopes on to
the table. “Only three bills,”
I said.
She glanced at them idly, then pounced
on a snaall envelope and held it up.
“This isn’t a bill,” she said, ripping
it open, “it’s a wedding invitation.”
“Well,” I rejoined, “is there any dif-
ference?”
Agapanthus igqored the remark. “It’s
Mavis’s,” she exclaimed. “Oh, goody!
I’ve been simply dying for something to
come along so I could wear my new
mushroom-pink tie-silk, and this is it.
I’ll have to have a new black bag, shoes
anc * gloves”
“But,” I protested, “you got a red bag,
shoes and gloves only a few weeks ago.
Why can’t you wear them ?”
“Now, how could I possibly wear red
accessories with a pink dress?”
“Why not? Convention perhaps de-
mands that you wear black. Well, here
is your chance to show that you are
willing to become a leader of fashion,
not just a slavish follower. You would
be hailed by women as a deliverer from
the tyrants of the fashion world, you
wou ld”
“I would simply look a freak,” cut
in Agapanthus firmly.
“Well,” I said, bowing to the inevit-
able, “new black accessories, then.”
“We’ll have to get a present,” she went
on. “What do you think we should give
them?”
I pondered the matter judicially for a
while. “What about a cut-glass fruit-
bowl?” I said.
“You always want to get that as a
wedding - present,” said Agapanthus
aggrievedly, “simply because it’s easy,
You don’t stop to think she’ll probably
get half a dozen.”
“Well, what’s wrong with that?” I
replied. “There’s dozens of uses for a
fruit-bowl. It’s handy for keeping bills
in, as a receptacle for butterfly-clips, for
putting tacks in as you pull them out of a
carpet or lino. Filled with lead or wet
sand it makes an excellent door-
stop”
“Yes,” she cut in, “and for blending
wall-paints when you run out of clean
tins, like you did with the one I keep on
the traymobile!”
“What about an entree-dish?” I said
hurriedly.
“That’s another silly suggestion. I’m
sure Mavis wouldn’t thank us for giving
her something she’d use only once in a
blue moon, and which she’d have to be
always cleaning. No, anything silver is
definitely out.”
“A piece of pottery, then?”
“The trouble with pottery,” pro-
nounced Agapanthus weightily, “is that
we don’t know what the color-schemes
of her rooms are going to be. If we were
to get something, say, in a Wedgwood-
blue it might clash with her walls or
her furnishings.”
“Well, they could keep it in the spare
room, or the kitchen,” I protested,
“What odds as long as we give it to
them? It’s their problem after that.”
“You don’t understand the house-
wife’s point of view,” she replied. “A
vase which clashed with other things
would be a constant irritation to her. Be-
sides, whenever we visited them she’d
feel impelled to put it in a place of
honor, and she might think that we would
be thinking she just had awful taste in
putting it among things that clashed
with it.”
“What about a painting, then?”
“The trouble with a picture,” said
Agapanthus, “is that what one person
likes another may violently dislike. Mavis
may think it nice, but Brian wouldn’t
hang it in the laundry. We could even
be the cause of their having a row about
it! That would be awful.”
“Something in the way of a chiming
mantel-clock?” was my next suggestion.
“If there’s one thing more than another
which can cause acute embarrassment to
a bride it’s to get two clocks —and that is
quite likely to happen. She wouldn’t like
to suggest that we change ours for some-
thing else in case we thought that she
was thinking ours wasn’t as good as the
other one. So she’d have to hang on to
it, and who wants more than one clock
chiming in a house? No, there surely
must be something else we can think
of?”
“A stainless-steel tray?” I said.
“Yes, they’re quite popular now, but
have you stopped to think that in a few
years’ time they may go completely out
of fashion? We don’t want to give them
something they’ll have to poke in a
corner and forget.”
“An afternoon-tea service?”
“Are you being funny? She’d already
have at least one set in her box.”
“Whisky-decanter and half a dozen
glasses?”
“Mavis’s people would be horrified!
You know they’re strict t.-ts.”
“Well, how about a carving-set?”
“No, I wouldn’t risk it. You know
the old saying about the gift of a knife
cutting friendship.”
“A bird-bath, then —that’s unusual.”
“Now, how could they possibly have
any use for a bird-bath in a flat?”
“Well,” I said, “they could put it in
the lounge-room—the canary could be let
loose and enjoy himself. They mightn’t
live in a flat always, anyway.”
“You’re quite hopeless at suggestions.
I suppose I’ll have to think of something,
as usual. A chrome traymobile —that
would be nice.”
“It would take up a lot of room in
a small flat” I began.
“There you go—the first thing I sug-
gest you jump on! ”
Wouldn’t it?
BO.


■vie;
■i rm i«r
' I SJLj §£*'
iii
HHH
m
■
s«. ■ ‘•si-
ipsi^
IW
if i M I
>:■■ i
■■ ii 11
m*
B •
“2ou asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir?’*
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
BENSONmdHEDGES Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.
a* * Hfcpocs ,
BV AFPO.«r«tNT
▼OOACCONIST* t©
CAft KINO OIQA04
fds
fds
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world’s most
famous liners, including the following great ships:—
QUEEN ELIZABETH • QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES • AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE • SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIG • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN • ORONTES ■ ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO • MAURETANIA
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON (3 HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
tbw/lsS
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
I
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
Phe NEO-BAKKBRK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTBIBCTION CO.
(Dept. 3o), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
STOP PAIN!
DOLGIN
QUICKLY
EASES
N "T
f|S“
gUMA
tICA
SCIA
UR» T,S
ago
* ■
: eFft
iaB lE
m
otfl*
Kf# 9
RHEUMATISM!
No matter how much you’ve suffered in the past,
you can be sure that Dolcin will give you prompt
and prolonged relief from the pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout.
Since Dolcin was perfected by American scientists
five years ago, thousands of men and women through-
out the world have proven its effectiveness. An
endless stream of letters of thanks
testify that Dolcin has given
prompt relief where all other
treatments have failed.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Get relief from pain today
EXMMUSS
TRADE MARK
FOR ALL RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS
Write for informative literature to Dolcin (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
SBB
Business Rollery Etc.
Stability Brings Benefits
VX/TIJLST it is difficult to fore-
’ ~ cast the trend of sales for
some consumer goods, such as
domestic appliances ranging
from refrigerators to hot-water
jugs, the general nature of con-
sumer demand seems likely to
remain strong for a considerable
time.
The domestic-appliance in-
dustry itself has been working
at a record capacity for at least
the past six months, assisted un-
doubtedly by terms-finance on
an unprecedented scale; and
lately there has been a move by
some finance companies to ask
for a smaller deposit in term-
sales and to allow a longer
period for repayment of the
loan. This would suggest over-
competition in the hire-purchase
finance business, which may be
helping to promote an unusually
high level of sales of refrigera-
tors, stoves, radios and the like.
In the quarter ended December
31, 1953, £8,569,000 was ad-
vanced under 137,396 hire-
purchase agreements in respect
of household and personal goods
valued at £10,985,000. The
average percentage of sale
financed rose to 78 p.c. in this
quarter, compared with 75 p.c.
in the first three months of the
year.
The whole matter of term-
sales needs to be studied when
considering the buoyancy or
otherwise of retail trade. The
extension of hire - purchase
facilities during the past year or
two may, of course, be a
reaction from the credit-restric-
tion that extended through the
economy during 1951 and 1952.
Whatever close analysis of
hire-purchase transactions might
happen to reveal, the general
basis of trade and business seems
to be sound, allowing for the
high (but stabilising) costs that
have become a feature of our
40-hour-week economy. The
arrears of homebuilding—an
accumulation of many years—
assure a demand for new homes
so long as costs remain stable
and finance is available ; and a
busy building-trade usually
stimulates most other trades.
Whichever party wins the
Federal election, there seems
bound to be a stimulus to build-
ing activity, though under Dr.
Evatt’s economic proposals costs
would be certain to inflate,
which would eventually price
homes out of most people’s
reach, whatever financial
arrangements the Common-
wealth Bank might make. Under
a new Menzies Administration
the indications are that present
stability in costs will continue,
and that building-materials will
generally remain in adequate
supply without encouragement
to blackmarketing.
Some “quietness” in trade
has been mentioned with the
onset of the colder weather, but
without any doubt the 1953-54
financial year, soon to close, has
brought a record volume of
turnover to many industries, in-
cluding nearly all the basic ones.
Interim company dividends as
a whole have shown an upward
trend, and, with company taxa-
tion considerably reduced, final
dividends should confirm what
the interims have indicated. Em-
ployment is at a high level.
Winchcombe, Carson, the
wool people, have stated that
the outlook for the next season
could hardly be better from a
market point of view. The pre-
sent wool season should close
“on a most satisfactory basis.”
Auctions have continued to
show a consistent world de-
mand, and some consumer
countries have allowed their
stocks to run down. For two
years many buyers have
“You put up twenty-five-pound deposit and I'll show
these cows in Canberra!”
operated on a hand-to-mouth
basis, Winchcombe’s report,
and stocks have thus been kept
at a minimum.
Prices for wool have tended
to firm as the season draws to a
close ; and remaining wool looks
like selling in the grower’s
favor. Altogether, the outlook
for the new clip, from a market
point of view, is promising,
though the season in some parts
of Australia, particularly wes-
tern N. S. Wales, has been a
dry one, affecting the quantity
and quality of the clip.
Commenting on the present
financial year, which it declares
to be unique in that a condition
of practically full employment
is accompanied by a virtually
stable price-level, the National
Bank of Australasia says that
its view is strengthened by the
fact that the stability is neither
stimulated internally by deficit-
finance nor threatened from
abroad at present by an adverse
balance of payments.
At the same time the bank
sounds a warning. It says that
to continue steady progress, to
take only calculated steps as
capacity grows, are the only
certain means of permanent ex-
pansion and the surest way to
improved living standards. “To
ask too much too soon, to press
large new demands, either for
capital or consumption pur-
poses, without careful reckoning
of the impact on capacity, could
easily send prices upwards again
and react ultimately against
incomes and employment.”
Some indication of the bene-
fits of stability achieved by the
efforts of the Menzies-Fadden
Government with voluntary co-
operation from private enter-
prise is shown in the remarks
made by the chairman of
Anthony Hordern’s, Mr. S. G.
Rowe. He told shareholders
that the year’s increased net
profit was earned in spite of a
fall in gross-profit margins. It
was the result of increased sales,
firm control of expenses and
taxation-relief.
Stability undoubtedly gives
business management the oppor-
tunity of showing its skill. With
continuing inflation skill gives
way to general confusion and
frustration, with the speculator
and the blackmarketeer at a
distinct advantage.
Under continued stability the
prospects ahead of Australian
industry are generally very
promising. Each improvement
in productivity breeds other im-
provements. But one problem
which needs specific attention is
public transport. State Govern-
ments are mainly concerned, but
so are shipping companies.
Bank of England Rate
As forecast in “London Air-
mail” last week, the Bank of
England has lowered the bank
rate, from 3i p.c. to 3 p.c. The
recent efforts to strengthen
sterling, combined with longer-
term effects, have brought an
increasing flow of foreign funds
to Britain, where short-term
investment has been particularly
attractive. But the London
Stock Exchange generally has
been strong recently, and trade
figures have been improving.
Lower interest costs should aid
British industry.
In Australia short - term
borrowing rates have been rising
a little, partly under influence
of the demand for funds by
hire-purchase finance companies.
Long-term rates have been
steadier, and since the oversub-
scription of the last 4% p.c. Com-
monwealth loan there has been
some top-level discussion on
the future of interest-rates.
There was a body of opinion
which thought that £4 7s. 6d. per
cent, would have filled the last
loan.
Rootes (Australia), Ltd.
The Rootes par issue of
800,000 ords. of 10s. each was
oversubscribed in March, Total
paid capital is £2,400,000, of
which £1,650,000 is in ords. and
£750,000 in 6 p.c. prefs. of £l.
The ords. are now changing
hands at 11s. 9d. on ’Change in
a market created principally by
stags.
The English Rootes company
granted the co. an exclusive
licence for assembly and pro-
gressive manufacture of Hum-
ber, Hillman, Sunbeam-Talbot
and Sunbeam cars and Commer
and Karrier trucks and com-
mercial vehicles. The licence
covers the Commonwealth. Esti-
mated net tangible backing for
the ords. was 9s. 6d., and aver-
age profits, allowing for the pref.
div., over the six years to July
31, 1953, was 11 p.c. on ord.
capital. A cautious div. policy
was forecast. “Considerable
funds will be demanded by the
expansion programme,” the
prospectus said. \
Metropolitan Cement
Metropolitan Cement (Syd-
ney) presented its accounts to
December 31, 1952, in the last
week of July, 1953. In those
accounts its liabilities exceeded
£3,000,000, against its capital of
£1,004,306. (The Rural Bank
was most obliging.) With July
again drawing near, the share-
market is getting colder feet,
and quotations for the co.’s £1
shares have fallen below 4s. for
the first time. There were deal-
ings last week at 3s. lid. The
co. has some huge problems to
cope with —if it can.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banhing and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£
JACKSOft £
osurxrvAA
A, PJXUD.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
stoati OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS’
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACK SUL,” BRISBANE
400 CHEQUES SIGNED
EVERY MINUTE
During working hours, all over Australia and New
Zealand, customers of A.N.Z. Bank are signing
cheques at the rate of over 400 a minute. This great
traffic in cheques is another indication of the growth
and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank—with over 750 branches
and agencies to serve you throughout Australia and
New Zealand and in Fiji, Papua and London.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED '
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia
(Established 1835)
The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1837)
Agents throughout the world.
ANZ. 103.12
Amalgamated Retailers Limited
Issue of £1 9 500 9 000
Registered
Mortgage
Debentures
6%
Interest Rate: © Per Cent. Currency: 15 Years Price of Issue: Par ( £100)
ISSUE NOW OPEN
OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The net proceeds of this issue will be devoted
to financing a programme of continued ex-
pansion of the business and activities of the
company and its important subsidiaries in the
fields of retail trade and associated finance.
ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
Messrs. Flack & Flack report profits of the
company and its subsidiaries before providing
for interest on existing or proposed debentures
or for income tax payable on the profits of
the group, at £533,102 for 13 months ended
31st July, 1953.
The report of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows
total assets of £7,400,292.
COVER FOR CAPITAL AND INTEREST
The Trust Deed securing the issue of de-
bentures requires that in the event of further
issues the total amount of debentures issued
must not exceed the ratio of £lOO of debentures
to £250 of total assets, including share capital
issued since the last balance date. Adding
capital issued since 31st July, 1953 (Including
the amount still uncalled), total assets are
£8,884,558, which is equivalent to £341/15/11
of total assets for £lOO of debenture capital.
The Trust Deed calls for a minimum three
times cover of debenture interest before
further debentures may be issued. The annual
rate of nrofit for 12 months in 1953 was suf-
ficient to cover debenture interest 3.27 times.
VALUATIONS OF PROPERTIES
A report by L. J. Hooker & Co. Ltd. places
a total value of all properties of the company
at £2,155,676, which is £834,881 in excess of
book value.
GROWTH OF BUSINESS
Total value of business of the company has
increased from around £3,500,000 in 1948 to
£11,250,000 (13 months) in 1953.
RECENT RESULTS
The report of the managing director, Mr.
J. R. Walton, states that for 37 weeks of the
current year to 15th April the combined
operating profit (after allowing for all expenses
including interest payments, but before Pro-
visions and Taxation) was £607,080. This
compares with £392,761 for the same period
of the previous year. It is confidently expected
that this operating profit will exceed £BOO,OOO
for the year. .
Mr. Walton anticipates that the volume of
business for this financial year will exceed
£16,000.000.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Norman Bede Rydge, 01010 Avenue, Vaucluse (Chairman).
John Robert Walton, Cherry Street, Warrawee (Managing Director;.
John Thomas Walton, 29 Kambala Road, Bellevue Hill (Director).
David Cyril Alexander, 54A Telegraph Road, Pymble (Director and Secretary).
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Bank of New South Wales.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SYDNEY
Ralph W. King and Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Applications
Applications for debentures of this issue will be
received only on one of the forms of application
accompanying a copy of the prospectus.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of appli-
cation may be obtained from any Branch of: —
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Bank of New South Wales
Members of the Stock Exchange of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Launceston.
Applications must be lodged with the bankers for
the issue and may be lodged through a member of
a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions
Payment for debentures may be made either In full
on application or 10 per cent, on application and the
remainder by instalments.
Application moneys and Instalments will be accepted
free of exchange in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
Allotments
The minimum subscription upon which the directors
may proceed to allotment is £1,500,000.
The board of directors of the company will proceed
to allotment daily as from 10th May, 1954.
Stock Exchange Listing
Application will be made by the company for the
listing of the debentures on the Stock Exchanges of
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart.
Registers of Debentures
The principal register of debentures will be kept
In Sydney. A branch register will be established and
maintained In Melbourne.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
-V
(The
requirements
of Section
with in
137 of the Companies Act of the State of New South Wales have not been fully
the above advertisement, which is an abridgment of the prospectus.)
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Freeing Sterling Exchange
Sometime before the general
election P.M. Sid Holland will
announce, with a fanfare of
trumpets, that sterling exchange-
control will be scrapped at the
end of the year/ The announce-
ment could be made now with-
out risk, but this is a little early
to make the most of it politi-
cally. It would be easy for the
governor of (he Reserve Bank
to say that N.Z. is out of the
wood and in a position to get
rid of control, except for dol-
lars, any time it likes, the most
natural time being the end of the
current year, but the governor
isn’t going to spoil the effect by
prematurely breaking the news.
This will be Mr. Holland’s big
surprise, so far as there is any
surprise left when all the
evidence points one way.
N.Z. is holding as well as
Australia for funds —£130 mil-
lion, against £4BO million (both
sterling)—and, if anything, has
a slight advantage in the stronger
condition of its export indus-
tries, based on costs., The main
uneasiness, as in Australia, is
among manufacturers, but in
N.Z. these are not exporters, ex-
cept to an insignificant extent.
As suppliers of a rich, though
limited, local market, they’re in
a sounder position than they
think, if the chairman of the
Board of Trade (knight David
Smith) is any judge. All that is
necessary before taking down
the sterling barriers is a little
more practice in using monetary
weapons, and the only remain-
ing weakness in these weapons
is in interest-rates, which could
be repaired after floating this
year’s national loan.
A firmer hold on bank-credit,
with the bulk of the banks’ de-
posits at the Reserve Bank now
frozen, and an adjustment in
interest-rates to the Australian
level would hold pressure off
the exchange and have other
good effects, particularly on costs
and prices. If N.Z. were to miss
the opportunity to free its sterl-
ing exchange this year it might
wait a long time for a better
one. For one thing, there’s still
a surplus of jobs, which leaves
scope for some contraction in
employment if freer competition
were to put the screw on here
and there, and it would be all to
the good if, in consequence,
workers as a group decided to
work a bit harder. After trying
persuasion, spoonfeeding and
coddling, the Government has
found that these are no substi-
tute for free enterprise, and no
one can guess how much con-
trols of one kind or another
have cost the country. Freeing
the exchange, in combination
with internal monetary measures,
is the quickest way to cut this
cost.
Holdens for Maoriland
Whatever welcome awaits
Australian Holdens when they
begin to reach N.Z. “in num-
bers” next year is hardly likely
to be as warm as if they came
in this year, because the inflow
of cars is now increasing on a
scale that should tip the market
back to balance by 1955, after
many years of endless waiting
for new cars, except for those
prepared to trade-in used models
at a knock-down price or other-
wise able to push their claims.
So far only an occasional
Holden has been seen in N.Z.
All motorists know for certain
is that when General Motors-
Holdens, Ltd., is ready to export
the first market will be N.Z.
A week after The Bulletin
told the co. and Australians at
large that the Germans had
stolen a march on Australia by
starting up an assembly-line for
the Volkswagen near Auckland
just after Easter, General
Motors (N.Z.), Ltd., gave it out
that G.M.-H. had plans for
“considerable expansion in car-
production,” with an eye, at the
start, on N.Z. The Germans,
with advantage in productive
capacity, were laying plans for
five years before the big move,
and it was their luck to have the
N.Z. market still in their favor.
No one knows how many cars
are needed to break the back of
the shortage; distributors’-lists
of orders booked for years back
are certainly no guide when
buyers have had their names
down for anything up to half a
dozen different models. Within
a year or so these lists will be
worthless.
Allowing for increased com-
petition, the Holden should have
a good chance when its turn
comes, particularly in view of
its popularity in Australia.
N.Z. prosperity still looks
sound, and there should be
no lack of business in the
motor-trade. N.Z. has an
average of a car for every six
of the population, and when the
demand to replace old cars and
the growth of the market are
lumped together the country
could do with at least 40,000
motor-vehicles, mainly cars, for
years to come. For many of
the younger generation a car
ranks before a home, and New
Zealanders as a class will have
to be very hard-up before the
car-market slumps. The love
of motoring is in their blood.
Costs and Markets
As N.Z. can no longer count
on being able to pass on higher
costs until they are loaded finally
on overseas buyers of its blitter,
cheese and meat, it will have to
break itself of the fairly deeply-
rooted habit of lifting wages
annually, without considering
carefully enough the possible
long-term effects on trade,
industry and real prosperity.
For many years it has been easy
for exporters to recover increases
in production costs by the appar-
ently simple process of asking
the British housewife to pay, and
this has been regarded as the
easiest way to keep M.L. wage-
earners, who are in the majority,
reasonably happy ; but the swing
from a seller’s to a buyer’s
market and from bulk contracts
to open marketing will now give
the British housewife the deciding
voice.
From now on N.Z. producers
will have to take a stand against
costs as they did in pre-war years.
So long as export prices for most
foodstuffs are somewhere near
present levels there shouldn’t be
real hardship, and it shouldn’t
hurt workers and their families if
wages level out, for prices of
imports have turned in con-
sumers’ favor.
Local manufacturers will
have to give better value,
too. If N.Z. tries to shelve
wage-cost-price adjustments for
a while and pumps in new money
through capital works to bolster-
up its inflated cost-structure, it
will have to pay more dearly
later. In the long-run, all
other incomes in N.Z. are
governed by those of
exporters, who earn one-third of
N.Z.’s total national income. If
the proportion were to fall, there
would be a squeeze which would
be felt fairly quickly by internal
trade, which is always highly
sensitive to ups and downs in
rural spending.
A firmer wage and income
basis would be all to the good
if at the same time those in
employment put an extra 5 p.c.
to 10 p.c. into their work, as
most of them could. Business is
more ready for this change after
bringing stocks in line with
current needs, shedding excess
credit, and getting more on its
toes. Nearly all cos. are in good
shape, as the recent annual
stocktaking showed.
The costs that are most out of
hand are wages and taxes.
There’s little likelihood of over-
stocking. Pressure of surplus
demand has largely disappeared,
barring motor-cars and some
capital goods and materials.


J'w r
i
ri
E :
33-39 HUNTER St.,
SYDNEY,
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAMWORTB
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
YOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to t offer, and
the charges , are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. i. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
1). R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. Si. MATTHEWS. Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
r pHERE is no adequate substitute for
life assurance from the security
aspect. It provides the assured, and his
dependants, with an estate of steadily in-
creasing value long before it is ever paid
for, an advantage not to be had from
other forms of investment. Moreover, it
normally binds the assured to a period
of regular savings according to a definite
plan suited to his particular needs. It is
thus also a beneficial influence in the in-
dividual, social and economic life of the
community.
Hence it is up to the Government to see
that the savings of policyholders do not
run to waste through inflation. Post-war
experience has shown how inflation, arti-
ficially-cheap money, a restricted field of
investment and high taxation pulled
down pre-war rates of bonuses to policy-
holders. Since disintegration of this un-
holy combination began, bonus rates are
on the up-grade again.
Latest accounts of the City Mutual, one
of Australia’s big-five mutual life offices,
present a pleasing picture in all matters
upon which soundness and progress
depend. Features are (1) a record amount
of new business, (2) marked growth in
the surplus available for distribution
among policyholders—there are no share-
holders—(3) further increase in bonus-
rates, (4) strong actuarial and other
reserves, (5) continued improvement in
* rate of interest earned, (6) tight hold
upon controllable outgoings, and (7) an
investment policy which gives grounds for
confidence in the future of the under-
taking.
New business totalled £12,863,721 (up
£1,747,377), the increase (15.7 p.c.) being
more marked than the aggregate figures
for the Commonwealth as a whole. The
average amount per policy was £1270
(up £144) as against £7OO in 1949. Some
of the factors behind the buoyancy are
growth of population, widening recog-
nition of the value of life assurance,
especially in the field of industrial super-
annuation, and of the life-cover associated
with mortgages for home-building.
The following table gives a broad
overall view of the progress of the society
as a whole;
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit, sale property, £23,185 ..1
1950.. 2.718,286 920,790 419.303 33.790 1-1.447,334
To contingency reserve, £25,000 .. I
Profit, sale property, £16,585 ..1
1951.. 3,123,782 928,470 501,600 58,872 L nni IQ ,
To tax reserve, £15,000 ~ r 1,9U1,184
To contingency reserve, £lB,OOO .. J
Profit sale property, £19,676 .. 1 , Kao „ R .
1952. . 3,526,532 1,056,335 576,833 85,364 j i- 582 ’ 864
Profit sale property, £25,897 .. j
1953.. 4,031,907 1,128,257 644,266 78,585 1 2,269,237
To general reserve, £60,000 ..J
Over the last seven years the co. has
more than doubled the income built up
during the preceding 62 years.
Of the growth of £511,596 in last year’s
income, £375,631 came from premiums
and £129,744 from interest, divs., etc,:
Income— 1952. 1953.
Premiums, etc £2,630,656 £3,006,287
Interest, divs., etc.. . . . 895,876 1,025,620
Surplus sale assets . . .. 19,676 25,897
Total £3,546,208 £4,057,804
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 1,056,335 1,128,257
Expenses* 612,197 672,851
Increased actuarial liability 1,317,496 1,583,252
Total £2,986,028 £3,384,360
Surplus 560,180 673,444
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes, and providing for an increase in
actuarial liabilities amounting to
£1,583,252, a surplus of £673,444 (up
£113,264) remained, and the “Wild Cat”
believes the figure has been conserva-
tively stated.
The surplus, together with £62,948
brought forward, was dealt with in this
way:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Surplus earned* .. £494,765 £560,180 £673,444
Brought forward .. 39,732 34,788 62,948
Total surplus .. £534,497 £594,968 £736,392
Bonuses to policyholdersf 431,709 482,020 588,131
To tax reserves,. .. 15,000
To write down assets. . 85,000 50,000 50,000
To reserve .. .. 18,000 60,000
To carry forward .. 34,788 62,948 38,261
* Includes surplus on realisation assets. f Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
After strengthening reserves by £60,000,
£588,131 (up £106,111) was distributed
among policyholders in reversionary
bonuses at increased and very satisfactory
rates, which had been strengthened a
couple of years previously. The assurance
fund, etc., which includes provision for
bonuses, stands at £24,201,113.
The three main factors contributing to
the bigger surplus and further lift in bonus
rates were continued increase (2s. sd. p.c.)
in the net effective rate of interest earned
on mean funds (£4 3s. Id. p.c.), improve-
ment (0.5 p.c.) in the ratio of exes, to
total income (13.7 p.c.), and a very favor-
able mortality experience. Greatest single
factor contributing to the lift in bonus-
rates during the last few years has been
the improvement in the net rate of in-
terest earned, which was only £3 11s.
p.c. in 1948. Liabilities under policies
are calculated on a very stringent p.c.
net premium basis.
The aspect of the business to which
the directors devote the greater part of
their time is the control and direction of
investment policy, which, of course, has
an important bearing on the interest
return;
1952. p.c. 1953. p.c.
Com’wealth stock. . £7,156,931 30.5 £8,811,526 34.2
Local-govt, stock . . 353,434 1.5 655,405 2.4
Shares and debs... 5,979,280 25.5 5,082,473 19.8
Mortgages .. .. 7,713,661 32.8 8,868,055 34.5
Loans on policies.. 858,304 3.6 876,643 3.4
Book debts, etc. .. 392,935 1.7 429,591 1.7
Cash, etc 160,218 0.7 180,719 0.7
Properties .. .. 863,584 3.7 843,167 3.3
Total . . . £23,478,342 £25,747,579
Mortgages (up £1,154,394), which now
account for 34.5 p.c. «f total assets as
against 15.3 p.c. in 1950, are evidence of
the extent to which the co. has come to
the assistance of home-builders and
others. The holding of Commonwealth
bonds increased by £1,654,595, thanks to
the better return now obtainable from
this class of security. Next-largest asset,
shares and debentures, shows a reduction
of £896,807.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
'T'HIS Bundaberg grower and miller of
•*- sugar has always been a satisfactory
profit-earner and dividend-payer, and,
subject to what happens in connection
with seasons and prices, the stage appears
to be set for a run of good returns for
several years to come. That is mainly
because of the bigger export market
recently provided by the U.K.-Common-
wealth sugar pact, which runs until 1961,
and an anticipated annual growth of
about 10,000 tons in home consumption
of sugar.
The agreement with the U.K. provides
for an annual export of 600,000 tons
raws (about 200,000 tons more than previ-
ously), over half of which is taken at an
annually negotiated price, and the bal-
ance is sold on the open market under
certain British and Canadian preferences.
Locally it has meant, among other things,
an increase in the area planted to cane,
expansion of mill-capacities and bigger
export cheque.
Last season Nature was kind, a bigger
acreage of cane was harvested, and the
Australian output of raws was a record:
f Production Raw Sugar- —a
Home Export
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. .. 587,745 157,346 745,091
1952 . . . . 477,000 471,000 948,000
1953* . . . . 517,000 740,000 1,257,000
* Estimates; final figures not yet available.
Some 324,000 tons of the year’s bigger
exports were sold at a negotiated price of
£A47 ss. a ton, but open-market sales
pulled down the average export price to
about £A3B 10s. a ton, thus emphasising
the value of the negotiated price to Aus-
tralian producers.
Home, export and overall average
prices compare as follows;
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1951 ~ £33 14 0 £36 15 6 £34 7 6
1952 .. 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 3
1953* . . 46 10 0 38 10 0 42 0 0
* Estimates, subject to adjustment.
Although last year’s overall figure was
more than 12s. a ton less than for 1952,
net returns benefited from the bigger
turnover,
G. and H.’s Bingara mill crushed
308.000 tons (up 110,180 tons) cane for
37,900 tons (up 15,088 tons) raws, and
the spring in net earnings was £23,365;
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
1948.. 72,769 12 p.c.= 33,660 39,169 152,257
1949.. 52,293 12 „ „ 33,600 18,693 170,950
1950.. 48,760 12 „ „ 34,502 14,258 185,208
1951.. 38,795 11 „ „ 36,099 2,696 187,904
1952.. 60,310 12 „ „ 42,840 17,470 205,374
1953.. 83.675 15 „ „ 59,852 23,823 229,197
t Not including depreciation reserve —£415,599 at
31/12/’53.
The £83,675 of profit was written after
allowing £44,296 (up £8784) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation, etc. It
was equal to 20 p.c. on paid capital as
against 16, 11.8, 17.4, 18.6 and 25.9 p.c.
back to 1948. To celebrate the diamond
jubilee of the business, the distribution
was raised from 12 p.c. to 15 p.c., of
which 5 p.c. is called bonus. Over the
last seven years distributions averaged 12
p.c. compared with an average of 8.5
p.c. for the preceding seven years.
Continued growth in mill-capacity
—expansion is now about complete—is
the feature of balance-sheet figures :
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £335,852 £356,997 £417,173
Reserves .. .. 187,904 205,375 229,197
Depreciation reserve 860,073 381,722 415,599
Liabilities* . . 393,791 530,609 485,323
Staff fund . . 14,290 14,213 19,113
Final divs. .. 20,995 26,730 39,616
£1,312,906 £1,515,646 £1,606,021
Freeholds, plant, etc. 854,239 984,568 1,114,099
Stocks .. . . 397,701 464,626 397,745
Sundry debtors .. 5,985 9,675 39,238
Govt, securities . , 48,200 43,200 43,200
Cash. etc. .. 6,780 13,577 11,739
£1,312,905 £1,515,646 £1,606,021
* Including provision for taxation.
To meet the net addition of £129,531 to
freeholds and plant, carry an extra £29,563
of book-debts and clip £45,286 off the
outside-debt, stocks were reduced by
£66,881 and shareholders put up an extra
£60,176 of capital—final call on the
140.000 new £1 shares issued at par in
Nov., 1950. Over the last four years
£470,984 has been added to the book-
value of fixed assets. When the books
closed liabilities, including staff fund
and final div., exceeded the raore-or-less
liquids by £52,130.
The current term has started well from
the seasonal point of view, and the co.’s
new equipment should be very helpful so
far as mill costs are concerned. Most
doubtful factor at the moment is what
might happen to wage and other costs in
the less immediate future. The market
therefore prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
475. 3d. (48s. 3d. a year ago) to return
6.4 p.c. so long as the 15 p.c. distribution
continues, or 5.1 p.c. on an average distri-
bution of 12 p.c. Net tangible cover is
30s. lid., and there is a further 19s. 9d.
in the depreciation reserve.
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
TN the forefront of the Australian plastic-
A products industry, 23-year-old Moulded
Products is still growing and winning
attractive results. The group con-
sists of parent holding co. and
16 manufacturing and distributing sub-
sidiaries —the merchandising organisa-
tion is Australia-wide. Its factories in
Melbourne turn out a diversity
of plastic articles which are mar-
keted under a dozen different trade-
marks. Among them are garden hose,
insulated wires and cables, shower-cur-
tains, tablecloths, coated fabrics, uphol-
stery materials, packaging film, kitchen-
ware, tableware, brushes, toys, light-fit-
tings, builders’ hardware, and laminated
sheets, tubes, etc. A recently-developed
product is plastic-coated paper for the
food and chemical industries. There are
few pies in the plastics world in which
Moulded Products hasn’t a finger.
Manufacture of plastics is by no
means a new development; it was
the post-war scarcity of many materials
that forced the pace and brought about
the industry’s spectacular expansion.
However, plastics are not merely substi-
tutes ; they often have outstanding ad-
vantages of price, appearance, perform-
ance and durability over the conventional
materials whose places they are taking in
many fields.
In Australia, the value of output of
plastic articles rose from £2,694,000
in 1945-46 to £12,063,000 in 1951-52. The
potentialities of the industry are tempered
by the threat of competition from imports ;
because of the high cost of dies and rela-
tively limited size of the Australian mar-
ket, as well as our swollen cost-structure,
some types of plastic articles can be im-
ported at prices considerably below their
locally-made counterparts. This puts the
emphasis on productive efficiency and the
generation of demand by the constant in-
troduction of new applications and the
development of old ones.
Moulded Products’ success in dealing
with these and other problems is re-
flected in the remarkable growth of
profits since 1948:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 12 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1948.. 33,00 V 1600 4,500 16,164 10,743 107,788
Sale fixed* assets, £2275 .. .. 110,013
1949.. 44,533 1600 4,500 18,521 19,912 129,925
Writing off intangibles, £2041 .. 127,884
14 p.c.
1950.. 70,916 1600 6,145 30,440 32,731 160,615
Share premiums, £55,416 .. .. 216,031
Share-issue exes., £8172 .. .. 207,859
1951.. 95,748 1600 10,548 51,985 31,615 239,474
Share premiums, etc., £31,113 .. 270,587
Sale fixed assets, £B6O .. .. .. 271,447
Unexplained reduction, £llOB .. 270,339
1952. .115,090 1600 12,656 69,251 31,583 301,922
Share premiums, £36,363 .. .. 338,285
Sale fixed assets, £544 .. .. .. 338,829
Note issue exes., £7147.. .. .. 381,682
1958. .154,662 1600 12,656 70,825 69,581 401,263
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
Last term more products were added to
the range, all activities showed healthy
increases, and turnover jumped by 40
p.c. After £89,828 for depreciation (up
£36,082) and £81,192 for tax (down
£6012) the net profit was £39,572
stronger at £154,662. That was enough
to pay the pref. charges (£14,256) and
show 27.7 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
20.5, 22.5, 29.1, 24.9 and 19.9 p.c. back to
1948. But the div. was held at 14 p.c.
(including 2 p.c. bonus); the board con-
siders that profits in excess of that rate
should be retained to finance capital ex-
penditure and provide for expansion.
During the year, the co. issued ord.
shares with an aggregate face-value
of £15,000 at a total premium of
£36,363 in exchange for the assets
of Amalgamated Plastics (A/asia), and
shareholders put up £251,687 in 6 p.c. 10s.
unsecured convertible notes, each of
which carries the option to take up two


Insurance Supervision
EAWIINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
dsƒ
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
application
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost The
"National" Rotary Dupll
color will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely t* Australia hf
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DUtributing Agent*—*
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Fty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY HUSKINSON late of Mar-
rickville N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARIE JOYCE HUSKINSON has filed
Petition No. 765 of 1954 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry King
Street Sydney by the 28th July 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. O. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. B. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Cenir.-s
Research in Industry . , .
No. 2 of a Seriea
JMan t Against
Malaria has killed more men than wars have ever done.
Its conquests in days gone by have played a large part in
determining the pattern of civilisation. Prior to 1925, the
only antimalarial in general use was quinine. In that year
the synthetic compound pamaquin was introduced, to be
followed by mepacrine in 1930. In 1944, “Paludrine” was
discovered in the 1.C.1. research laboratories. Large scale
field trials were successfully carried out in Queensland by
the Australian Army and this new drug soon became well
known to many of our service men and women. It has
proved supreme in the protection and treatment of all who
work in malarious areas. . .
“Paludrine” is protecting the men of the British Com-
monwealth Division in Korea and it was also used by the
conquerors of Everest. .
“Paludrine” is only one of the discoveries of world sig-
nificance which have accrued from 1.C.1.’s research and
development programme a programme to which the
company devotes no less than £7,500,000 per year.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
d
L. 538.4815
A
NATION
MORE
PROSPEROUS
We hand back to your custody as voters a nation more
prosperous, more productive, possessed of more social
justice, better defended, and with more friends abroad
than ever before.
Our opponents have been
destructive critics. They
have politically welcomed
every difficulty. They have
prophesied and hoped for
disaster.
All their prophecies have
failed. Instead of depres-
sion, we have a record
prosperity. Instead of un-
employment, we have a
record level of employment
at high wages.
Instead of financial collapse,
we have the highest national
income on record, large
exports and international
reserves, splendid credit,
buoyant loan markets, stabi-
lised prices
DNINUIAO9 SIIZNIW d»H
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
F 0.200
ss. ords, at 2s. 6d. premium on
June 30, 1958:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953.
Pref £278,125 £273,125
Ord 494,646 509,646
Reserves .. .. 301,922 401,263
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes .. 251,687
Creditors, etc. .. 773,356 596,941
Tax provision 140,966 166,833
Final divs. .. 83,507 85,081
£2,317,522 £2,534,576
Freeholds, etc, .. 239,559 286,407
Plant, etc. .. 534,631 687,738
Stocks .. .. 952,687 986,810
Debtors .. .. 585,158 567,504
Cash, shares, etc. 5,487 6,117
£2,317,522 £2,534,576
The investment in stock (up
£34,123) and in book-debts
(down £17,654) in relation to
turnover was at an all-time
low, which means, among other
things, careful planning and
strict control. Finances were
stronger, despite net additions of
£46,848 to freeholds and
£153,107 to plant. The amount
coming to the bank and other
creditors was reduced by
£176,415.
The current term has opened
well, sales are increasing, and
the board expects last year’s
turnover to be maintained.
Several big new projects are
planned, and should be in opera-
tion before the end of the year,
but capital expenditure is not
expected to be large. The pre-
cipitate expansion of the last
decade seems to have slowed,
relatively, to a walk. As for the
future much will depend on
what happens in connection with
costs and overseas competition.
Impressed by the co.’s excel-
lent record, the market prices
the ss. ords. at 13s. 9d. to return
5.1 p.c. on the 14 p.c. div. There
appears to be no immediate
prospect of a lift in the rate or
of a new share-issue. The
options to take up the ords. at
7s. 6d. in 1958 are fetching 35.,
making a total cost of 10s. 6d.
a share. Net assets cover for
the ords. is Bs. lOd.
Lowe’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
{ANE of the largest and most
prosperous concerns of its
kind in the Commonwealth,
Lowe’s (founded in 1898) specia-
lises in men’s and boys’ tailoring
and outfitting. The co, trades
largely on a cash basis and
from a chain of 11 stores, of
which nine are in and around
Sydney and one in each of the
busy industrial centres of New-
castle and Wollongong. It has
strong reserves, sound finances
and an able management with
a flair for this class of business.
The rapid post-war growth of
population and of spending-
power of the lower-income
group have meant much so far
as turnover is concerned.
Divs. averaged 17i p.c. for
the decade before the public be-
came interested in 1948, and 16.6
p.c. for the half-dozen years to
the close of last accounts. To
help finance expansion, the
public oversubscribed 150,000
new ss. shares at a premium of
12s. 6d. each. That lifted paid
capital to £142,298, which was
increased to its present figure of
£227,677 in November, 1949, by
capitalisation of £85,379 of the
£93,750 of share-premiums
gathered at the behest of Capital
Issues Control about a year
earlier. At January 31, 1954,
there were also 72,410 “workers’
shares” held by employees.
These shares are the basis of a
profit-sharing scheme ; they have
no capital value or voting rights,
but rank pari passu with sub-
scribed capital for dividends.
The import flood and its
accompanying difficulties re-
duced the stoutness of profits,
and the div. came down from
\l\ p.c. in 1951 to 15* p.c. for
the two following years—the 15
p.c., however, was equal to
24 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the issue of bonus-scrip
already referred to;
Re-
Jan., Profit. / Dividends —serves.
£ E &
1949.. 57.206 20 p.c. = 25,469 312,600
Capitalisation of res., £85,379 227,221
From inner reserves, £BO3. . 228,024
1950.. 46.127 15 p.c. = 36,234 237,917
1951.. 65.339 17* ~ ~ 42,272 260,984
Net reduction res., £3038.. 257,946
1952.. 47.126 15 p.c. = 37,008 268,064
1953.. 44.412 15 „ ~ 36,968 275,508
Tax overprovided, £6500 .. 282,008
Unexplained addition, £32.. 282,040
1954.. 62,602 17i p.c. = 43,037 301,605
The 1953 profit was arrived at
after writing-down the book-
value of stocks by £30,000 (to
cost or less), and setting aside
£25,000, or £6500 more than was
needed for taxation.
Last term opened with trade
sticky, but turnover gathered
momentum as the year advanced,
and the recovery was more pro-
nounced in this class of business
than in most others. Exes, were
“substantially maintained,” the
chairman says. After allowing
for depreciation (£7482, up
£3605) and taxation (£37,000, up
£12,000), net earnings took a
leap of £18,190, reaching
£62,602. That was equal to 25.4
p.c. on subscribed capital and
workers’ shares combined, com-
pared with 18, 19.1, 27 and 19.1
p.c. back to 1950. So a “special
bonus” of 2\ p.c. was added to
the 15 p.c. div., making 17i p.c.
for the year. With reserves at
£301,605 and capital as it is, the
two combined need turn in only
8.1 p.c. to cover last term’s rate
of distribution. The year’s profit
was equal to 11.8 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds.
Balance - sheet movements
were encouraging, too:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £227,677 £227,677 £227,677
Reserves 268,064 275,508 301,605
Overdraft 158,780 19,386
Creditors 122,307 126,277 120,112
Provision for
tax .. 105,325 67,844 61,334
Staff funds 6,649 22,112 27,112
Final dividend 18,501 21,555 24,573
£902,803 £760,859 £762,413
Freeholds 235,170 260,756 260,971
Plant, etc. 32,458 38,889 29,511
Stock .. 558.988 375,772 353,411
Debtors . . 37,344 30,072 25,946
Cash, shares,
etc. .. 38,343 54,870 92,574
£902,303 £760,359 £762,413
Reductions of £22,361 in stocks
and of £4126 in debtors’ balances
were accompanied by elimina-
tion of the overdraft (£19,386 at
previous balance), cut of £6165
in the creditors item and growth
of £37,704 in the holding of
cash, etc. The co. is thus well
equipped to take immediate
advantage of any trading oppor-
tunity that offers.
At 16s. (12s. 9d. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss, shares return 5.5 p.c.
on a 17£ p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 11s. 7d.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
After a prosperous career
Jelapang has come to the end of
its tether for the time being.
Formed by the Prattens in 1925
to work tin-bearing leases near
Ipoh (Malaya), the co. later
passed into the Anglo-Oriental
stable. The dredge, having
treated all payable ground avail-
able, ceased work in Dec., 1952,
and has since been on a care-
and-maintenance basis. Pros-
pects of obtaining a new and
suitable property in the near
future are remote. So, subject
to shareholders’ approval, the
board proposes to reduce paid
capital from £120,000 to £6OOO
by returning 19s. of each £1
share.
At Dec. 31 last there were
cash (£252,872), F.M.S. war
bonds (£11,667) and debtors,
etc. (£6134), totalling £270,673
to meet current liabilities (in-
cluding a Is. 5.14 d. div., paid
May 5) of £7033, leaving
£263,640 net. The return of
capital will call for £114,000,
and the remaining £149,640
(245. lid. per Is, share) is to
be held for purchase of a new
area if and when the opportunity
occurs.
Stores and spares stood in the
books at £17,284, dredge and
plant £5, property £5, and shares
in Anglo-Malayan Development,
a prospecting concern, £490.
Last sale of the scrip (Sydney)
was at 30s. 9d., cum the
Is. 5.14 d. div. already men-
tioned.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The month of May has brought to
Sydney once more that mild and con-
siderate weather which is its nature (the
week included the coldest day for seven
months —maximum 61.7 degrees), the
glowing beauty of the autumnal trees on
the North Shore Line and the first bril-
liant flashes of poinsettia which enlighten
every section of city, slum, suburbia and
outlying farm.
It has also brought this year a great
influx of architects and kindred spirits to
confer here; this week there were four
exhibitions dealing with architecture at
the Town Hall, the Art Gallery, David
Jones’ Gallery and the Macquarie Gal-
lery. Among the 400 delegates, who in-
clude representatives from Great Britain,
America, West Germany, New Zealand,
the Philippines and South Africa, the
guest-of-honor is Professor Walter
Gropius, here with Mrs. Gropius.
Speaking on an A.B.C. broadcast, Pro-
fessor Gropius said that new house-design
principles “would sweep away that
home-sweet-home mentality of faked
candlesticks slipped over electric-light
bulbs or of those stylish house-fafades
which prevent a freer, more natural life.”
This would of course be a good thing so
long as they don’t sweep away the home-
sweet-home with it. Modern interiors are
undoubtedly more airy, bright, colorful
and uplifting than most Australian in-
teriors of older influence, but somehow
they don’t seem particularly comfortable.
There is nowhere to settle down and
relax quietly and in your own way—the
modern lounge-chair needs special skill
for getting into and out of, and all around
is an atmosphere of scrubbed and
disciplined austerity.
* it *
“Russian spies” invaded the town on
Commemoration Day. One couldn’t turn
a corner without bumping into suspicious-
looking characters with black beards, see-
ing girls being “kidnapped” from the
crowd or hearing smoke-bombs let-off
in Martin-place. All very nerve-wracking
but amusing. The Uni. students also
managed to get a Soviet flag flying on
the U.S. Information Office for four
hours before any officials noticed it.
“The Abominable Snowman” also made
his appearance, protesting in newspaper
offices and threatening to lynch the editors
for calling him abominable. Students in
the dress of the 1920’s (which seems to
amuse them immensely) “got married”
on the steps of the Town Hall. “For
Sale” signs appeared on the Harbor
Bridge and the University, and the Snowy
River Project was offered the slogan;
“Don’t let work kill your wife. Let elec-
tricity do it.” Altogether the students’
pranks had quite a cheering effect on the
city, especially when one thinks of the
grim way students protest and riot in
other lands.
* ☆ ☆
First party to be held in the newly-
decorated rooms of the Royal Empire
Society was a reception in honor of
Lieutenant-General Sir Fuank Berryman
and Lady Berryman ; and the president,
Mr. W. J, Bradley, assisted by Miss
Margaret Gillespie and Mrs. Rupert
Scammell, received about 100 guests.
Chrysanthemums decorated the rooms,
which have been painted a pastel-green
and enlarged by the removal of the left-
hand wall into the corridor. Lady Berry-
man wore a dress of blue tie-silk with a
cobweb design, a brown ermine cape and
a tiny hat of blue feathers. Included
among the guests were Colonel and Mrs.
G. W. C. Thompson, Mr. and Mrs. Vin-
cent Brady, Mr. and Mrs, F. N. Kook,
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Twigden, Mr. and
Mrs. F. E. Manning, Mr. and Mrs. Allen
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn,
Mr. and Mrs. E. Hammond.
* ☆ ☆
Lady Lloyd Jones presided at the final
meeting of the committee which arranged
the spectacularly successful concert by
Mr. Lindley Evans and Mr. Frank
Hutchens on April 22—the 30th anni-
versary of their first duo-piano concerts
and the celebration of a happy 30-year
association. The proceeds of the concert
(just over £1200) are to be the nucleus
of a fund to help students at the Con-
servatorium. Mr. Hutchens hopes this
fund will grow into enough to build a
hostel for music. students ; the Musical
Association of N.S.W. has been made
trustee. Members of the committee who
were entertained at afternoon tea by Lady
Lloyd Jones included Lady Harrison,
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. Lindley Evans,
Mrs. Kalberer and Mrs. C. M. Guiney.
☆ ☆ <r
Elizabeth Latham, who has been stay-
ing in Sydney with her fiance’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Scott Waine of War-
rawee, returned to her home, Ellerston,
Scone, last week. For her marriage to
John Scott Waine (on June 2, at St.
James’s Church, Turramurra), she will
wear a white French model dress and her
bridesmaids, Jacqueline Baillieu (of Mel-
bourne), Sue Playfair and Sarah Hordern,
will also be in white. Elizabeth is the
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lambert
Latham, of Scone.
Mrs. R. R. Dowling is the wife of
Rear-Admiral Dowling, Flag Officer com-
manding the Australian Fleet. Admiral
and Mrs. Dowling have three daughters,
Jill, Susan and Rosemary, and a son,
John. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The film “Volcano,” showing in Sydney
at present, is interesting from a gossipy
angle because it was the film that tem-
pestuous Italian actress Anna Magnani
made after Ingrid Bergman had displaced
her from the lead in “Stromboli,” and the
leading place in Rossellini’s admiration.
La Magnani then got “Stromboli’s” direc-
tor and with him made a film of the same
story—thus proclaiming to the world not
only that she was a better actress than
Bergman, but that Hell hath no fury like
to a woman scorned. That was all four
years ago. How does it look to her now,
one wonders?
☆ ☆ ☆
Just as the Queen arrives back in Eng-
land the first full-length color-film of
her tour in Australia is showing in Syd-
ney, a remarkable feat of speed in pro-
duction. This film, presented by Twen-
tieth Century Fox, starts with the Queen’s
departure from London, takes in Fiji and
New Zealand and concludes with the fare-
well from Perth. The official film, made
at a cost of £50,000 by the Department
of Information, will have its premiere
here on June 2 in aid of Red Cross.
☆ ☆ ☆
The release of the report on television
would seem to bring this modern amenity
much nearer, though most people who
know estimate that it will be 18 months
to two years before we actually have tele-
vision-sets in our own homes —provided,
of course, we can save the £150 which
we are told the sets will cost, with £5
per year for a “viewing fee.” The report
suggests that Sydney set up. the first
national station and two commercial
stations, followed by Melbourne and then
the other cities. It apparently hasn’t been
proved that television increases child
delinquency. On the contrary, it tends
to keep wayward children home and out
of temptation. It has been found, how-
ever, that TV interferes with homework
and reading, and the report suggests a
break in transmission for one hour on
all stations at the end of the children’s
programme so that the nippers can be
got to bed without too much protest.
MELBOURNE
Cottons in the Douglas Cox 1954 col-
lection are so lovely and feminine. Fresh,
immaculate white waffle pique, flower
prints, gay polka dots, soft checks, tone
on tone and impressionistic prints are
featured, as well as stripes in lovely and
unexpected colors. And the cottons have
surah-silk finish, satin-silk finish or are
mixed with nylon. As these cottons are
so soft, the silhouette is also soft in design
and the essence of simplicity.
The Empire-Princess line creates an en-
tirely new look for 1954, although the
trend of the ’twenties is emphasised —
except that the important movement in
skirts balances the top of the frock at all
times. The 1954 sheath-dress is straighter
in front but always with movement at
the back; there is often fullness at the
side, but always the fullness balances the
bodice. Willowy and wallpaper waists
show up with a billowy skirt. The wall-
paper waist is the tightly-nipped-in waist
with a very full skirt, but cut in many
different ways.
Sleeveless frocks will be definitely the
new spring look. These feature the “little
dipper look” and the “piecrust neckline,”
both of these in many variations. To
balance these tops, Douglas Cox has 50
variations of skirts. Cotton coats (plain
or in gay prints) will be a must in the
warmer weather. The new skirt-length is
definitely shorter. But, of course, height
depends on the length. The woman of
sft. 6in. or over should wear dresses 15in.
from the ground; those qf sft. 4in. and
under should wear skirts 13in, from the
ground.
Colors are gay and imaginative, all of
them lovely. The main colors are start-
ling lipstick, brilliant blue, golden, petal-
pink, orange, cognac, leaf-green, citron,
caramel, burnt-sugar, red lilac, silvery-
grey, sand-dune, black, navy and white.
Outstanding ensemble in the Cox collec-
tion —a white waffle pique sheath-frock
piped with navy-blue cotton and worn
under a fitted matching coat with lapels
and pockets piped with blue and finished
with blue buttons. Over this white frock
could be worn a fitted coat of Wedgwood-
blue patterned with white pique. Another
white-pique frock was patterned with
black palm-trees, with a citron-yellow
streak running through the background.
A Gibson Girl shirtwaist frock was fash-
ioned of white cotton faille patterned
with a narrow black stripe. This, of
course, had a high neckline and full
sleeves, and was a perfect frock for the
office. Then there was a white corded
pique embossed and spotted at intervals
in red and black. The skirt was very
full and the bodice featured a pinafore
front, cut away almost to the waist at
the back. A burnt-orange cotton frock
was sleeveless and had a softly folded-
across bodice. The skirt was of unpressed
pleats.
This spring there are no gathered skirts.
A dream-coat for the teen-age girl was of
white pique printed in an old-fashioned
wallpaper design of pink roses and green
leaves. It was contrasted with a black
cotton faille collar and black buttons.
Simple but elegant was a full-skirted
frock of zEgean blue-and-white striped
cotton. And all these frocks can be
laundered at home.
* ☆ a
Cardinal, blue and silver, the colors
of Genazzno, were featured in the decora-
tions at the Royale Ballroom when the
annual ball for school funds was held.
At the back of the official table was the
crest of the school; crests in gold were
also hung on the pillars. Scarlet flowers,
and scarlet candles in silver candelabra,
were set on the official table, with, on
every table in the ballroom, a mask in
the school colors.
This year’s president, Mrs. John
O’Donoghue, received the eighteen debu-
tantes, who wore individual white gowns
and carried pink Cecile Brunner roses
surrounded with silver tulle. Mrs.
O’Donoghue pinned to her lovely off-the-
shoulder gown of white guipure lace the
school-crest brooch in diamonds and
pearls, which is handed on from each
president. Vice-president Mrs. Peter
Murphy chose a gown of white satin
brocade embellished with ruby rhine-
stones ; Mrs. John Connell grey moire
taffeta for her bouffant gown; Mary
Moore (one of the ticket-secretaries)
black satin highlighted with cream gui-
pure lace. Mrs. Brendan McGuiness was
in scarlet taffeta patterned in a gold
design, Dr, June Howqua in an ankle-
length frock of black tulle. Others at the
official table were Mrs. Anthony Kelly
(Loreto), Mrs. R. Guthrie (Sacre Coeur),
Mr. and Mrs. John Plant (he representing
Old Xaverians), and Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Kiernan (Newman College past gradu-
ates). Among the dancers—Mrs. John
Davoren, Dr. and Mrs. W. Gayton,
Dr. and Mrs. T. J. Daly, Colonel and
Mrs. Boyle and Mrs. A. Capes, a past-
president of Genazzno.
☆ ☆ ☆
To farewell Colonel and Mrs. George
Uhrich (going back to the U.S., where
Colonel Uhrich will be given another
appointment), Colonel and Mrs. John
Sullivan and Major and Mrs. James Clark,
members of the U.S. diplomatic corps in
this city, gave a late-afternoon party at
the Dorchester. Mrs. Sullivan’s black
taffeta off-the-shoulder bodice was allied
to a full skirt of black-and-gold brocade;
Mrs. James Clark chose a deep Parma-
violet crepe frock with diamente shoulder
straps to match the diamente plaited in
her chignon; while the guest-of-honor
wore a white-and-gold brocade skirt
topped with a black velvet bodice.
Black-and-gold brocade made the frock
worn by Mrs. R. B. Brumsted. Mrs. W.
W. Killough was attractive in a navy-
blue jacket-suit and small navy-and-red
hat, Mrs. Harry Cavenaugh’s black
ensemble was topped with a small white
petal hat, and scarlet velvet made Mrs.
Frank Watts’s jacket-suit, worn with a
small white hat. Mrs. C. W. McKay’s
choice was a frock of lime-green irides-
cent shantung and black velvet cap,
while Mrs. Plunkett Cole’s simple tailored
frock was of grey wool jersey. Other
guests included Mrs. Norman Robinson,
Mr. and Mrs. John Reilly, the Herbert
Allens, Brigadier and Mrs. Ronald Irving
and Mrs. Robert Monahan.
Pictured here, Moira, wife of Dr. Jim
Peters, and tonight (May 19) to he, one
of the hostesses at the Astor Theatre,
when “ The Malta Story ” will be filmed
for benefit of the Prince Henry's Hospital.
Moira was one of the hard-working
ticket-secretaries for the occasion; her
father , Frank O’Collins, gave the theatre
for the screening. Moira was educated
at Sacre Coeur School and was married
at Newman College Chapel. The couple
have four children-Stewart , Marion,
Justin and Joanna —between the ages of
seven and one. Titian in coloring, Moira
is petite and smart.
It’s rare for a woman to be honored
with the insignia of Chevalier of the
Legion of Honor. Recently Monsieur
M. L. Roche, the French Ambassador to
Australia, came from Canberra to bestow
this honor upon Madame Albertine Gay.
In making the presentation, M. Roche
said the award was made by the French
Government for Madame Gay’s 30 years
of service to the Alliance Franfaise in
this city. Ninety members of the
Alliance, with their Australian friends,
were at the Lyceum Club when, through
the courtesy of Lady Scott, a party fol-
lowed the investiture.
Madame Roche, accompanied by her
husband, was a striking figure in a full-
skirted coat of ocelot, worn over a black
frock and with a flower-pot hat of black
hatters’-plush. Madame Gay (with
daughter Lillianne) chose a frock of lime-
green-and-black-printed silk worn with
a black cloche hat. Madame Sirot, wife
of the French Consul, also decided on a
black ensemble. She teamed a jet-beaded
velvet tunic with a black angora pleated
skirt—her black velvet cap also em-
broidered with jet beads. Madame M.
Cockerton, secretary of the Alliance
Franfaise, was lovely in a frock of amber-
and black-patterned organza, worn with
a small black velvet cap. Special guests
included the Lord Mayor (Or. R. H.
Solly) and his wife, she in hunting-pink
wool under a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
W. A. Farey was accompanied by her
daughters, Mrs. D, Kirwan and Trixie
Farey.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILDA MARY PENDRED late of
Bondi, N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM JOHN PENDRED has filed
Petition No. 694 of 1954 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
habitual drunkenness for three years and
upwards and neglect of domestic duties-
habitual drunkenness for three years and
upwards and rendering herself unfit to dis-
charge her domestic duties If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry King Street Sydney
by the 28th July 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Eliza-
beth .Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
TO PETER CLAUDE REX IBBETSOtf
Address Unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARJORIE ISOBEL IBBET-
SON has commenced proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within 40 clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce Judgment and
make Orders against you in your absence.
DATED this Sixth day of May, 1954. —
G, J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
UNMACK & UNMACK, of 12 Howard
Street, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL MELVILLE WINTERS
RICHARDS late of Orange.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARIE CLARE BERNA-
DETTE RICHARDS has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 4198 of 1953 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upwards If you
desire to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 26tb
day of July 1954 You may obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from L. D. SERISIER & CO.. Solicitors,
193-195 Summer Street, Orange, or their
Agents, PETER G. KEARNEY & CO.,
Solicitors, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
TO PHILIP CYRIL PRY sometime of
Claremont W.A. and of Darwin N.T.
Address now unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife OLIVE DOROTHY PRY
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the grounds that
you have deserted her for a continuous
period of three years or more and that
you have habitually failed during a period
of three years at least immediately prior
to this action to make periodical pay-
ments of maintenance under an Order of
a Competent Court If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within Thirty
cleaT'days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing, the case
may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. —DATED this 3rd
day of May, 1954. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. S. E. TIPPETT & ELLIS,
W.A. Chambers, 104 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
TILLEY
Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
1 ' ii
W 0
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining: TILXEY
products.
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 2461 Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1 1 pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives; (“THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
-Wf
wmMJ/
“ ißtei
MMIm
: ;
&**■
|P> . , '
H
I
Yes Jack Davey’s lively “Dulux Show” is now really two grand shows in one. All your
comedy favourites are there PLUS the new game “Four In A Row in which contestants
can win radio’s most glamorous prize—a flight to almost any place in the world they choo
with ALL FARES PAID. Don’t miss this super show every Wednesday night at 8 p.m. on
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK. 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
brohdcastihg s eh
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Pineapple Poll”
Gilsullivan addicts, who
haven’t tasted their favorite diet
for a long time, should be some-
what appeased by this cranky
ballet by John Cranko on a
theme from Gilbert, danced to
some of the crispest and liveliest
of Sullivan’s music.
The ballet has been tacked
on to the Borovansky proces-
sion at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. The music is delightful,
the dancing a continuous ripple,
and the settings of Portsmouth
in the morning, the quayside, the
Steam Packet Hotel and H.M.S.
Hot Cross Bun are in the right
tradition. Gilbert would doubt-
less have approved of the pre-
sentation of the story of Captain
Belaye and his surprise at find-
ing that he has shipped a crowd
of females instead of his girl-
happy seamen.
The humor of the thing came
through well in the jig- and
hornpipe-dancing of the sweet-
hearts, wives and sailors and
the bumboat woman, in which
role Kathleen Gorham gave a
further demonstration that she
is one of the lightest, quickest,
most spontaneous, relaxed and
natural dancers that the local
soil has yet grown. Paul Grinwis
provided a multitude of laughs
as the cranky captain. ,
Grinwis had a more difficult
part to play as the neurotic
young musician of “Symphonic
Fantastique.” The impressive
features of this elaborate ballet
are the mob scenes of visions
and passions, sorcerers, demons,
executioners, inquisitors and
monsters, which Borovansky
produces in a first-class manner.
The corps de ballet was magnifi-
cent in this one.
❖ ♦> ❖
Solomon in Brisbane
British pianist Solomon gave
a most unsentimental account of
Schumann’s Piano Concerto in
the latest set of Brisbane sub-
scription-concerts. There was
much to admire in the splendid
pianistic skill of the perform-
ance, particularly the utter
clarity of each note in the most
heavily-scored passages. Yet, in
s de a dne balance between
orchestra and soloist in the
p eace £ u j beauty of the slow
ement there was elsewhere
bardj mass ive and often un-
vieirfing tone which knocked
Te esfenS nSgm out of
Scbumann ’ s tunes.
sphere was little romantic
bloom in Joseph Post ’ s interpre-
tadon tbe -Brahms Third
Q h IT miobt well have
b Y en P bent Y on demonstrating the
falsity of the old accusation that
Brahms s orchestration is
mudd The detail of the music
was yer y c i ear indeed, and the
intricate r h v thmic patterns were
nice]y ma J ged Only the sun-
set-glow atmosphere>of the finale
was missing, but this is almost
impossible without a much
larger body of strings than Mr.
Post had at his disposal.
The best orchestral playing of
thg mme was by the re-
duced orchestra in Bach’s Third
Orchestral Suite. Orchestra and
~. . .
conductor Seemed to enjoy
t b em selves in the grave nobilitv
Xu * S ", noDimy
verture and Air and
• lively 18th-century
, •- T i Y
dances that end the suite. The
audience caught and shared the
( f ejr enj nt ,_
n t M
-J- •
* +
r-UL.,.,
\jOlClD6rg DOngS
enno writer 1S at the
The „„„„
mercy of hIS lyriCS. A good Song
„ „ oood Ivric be-
generally has a g°ocl ly
bmd ,1; » not f rom the point ot
view of the con„ois f ur of pure
poetry but from that of mus.cal
LCC ' , M . , . ~ e „ .
The characteristics of a good
terseness, force, move-
Y nt cril : H nouns strong
mem, soua nouns, suuug
verbs and as few adjectives as
possible. The old drawing-
room “ballad” “Where My
Caravan Has Rested” has a
good lyric: in the first line it
has “caravan,” in the second
“flowers and grass,” in the
third it says you will find them
as you pass; and in the second
quatrain it says that if you are
a divorced person you needn’t
stop to pick them up: eight
lines, all to the point; nothing
intruded to fog the imagination.
The technique of Tin Pan
Alley writers is moulded more
than that of any other con-
temporary song-writer by the
public ; and it is an education
for the young poet to go through
a selection of their successes and
observe how rarely they venture
an adjective, or a really abstract
idea. There is no better check
on poetry than to ask how it
would sound spoken, or,
especially with lyrics, sung: i.e.,
to wonder at what point the
audience would begin to count
the cherubs on the ceiling: a
song should be solid enough to
see easily, clear in argument,
and should move at the pace at
which the audience can take it
in; neither too fast nor too
slow.
By these standards the Mary
Bertram lyrics which comprised
the complete Sydney Conserva-
torium recital of Austin Gold-
berg’s compositions have not
made for easy setting. Pleasant
magazine-pieces, most of them
do not concentrate pictorial or
dramatic force.
Exceptions were “Intermezzo”
(“Autumn leaves are golden
now”), in which, with some sug-
gestion of Elizabethan modal
treatment, Mr. Goldberg took
us by surprise, and even seemed
to surprise his singer, Rae
Candy, with an unexpected
enchantment; and “A Spring
Carol,” which with a little
livelier singing and less inter-
ruption from Mr. Freeland’s
flute might have gone almost as
well.
The song-cycles and solos for
baritone did no more than
demonstrate Charles Unsworth’s
fine voice; and the fantasy for
voice and piano, “The Road
Through the Mist,” was an ex-
periment in free narration in
which Mr. Goldberg and Miss
Candy took turns: he to
illustrate at the piano her singing
of such things as:
Slowly the grass uncurls, the
flowers unfold
Reluctant to reveal a secret kept,
Afraid lest Day, vivid, laughing,
gay,
Should mock the tears Night has
wept.
That his illustrations were suit-
able is no reason why he should
not have chosen his words more
suitably.
Talkies
Royal Tour Film
“The Royal Tour of Our
Queen,” at Hoyts theatres,
though in brilliant Eastman
color, cinemascope and “genuine
stereophonic sound,” is a rather
sobersided account of what was
really a highly emotional event.
The film shows various im-
portant aspects of the Royal
Tour in Fiji, Tonga, New Zea-
land and Australia, but it can-
not be said to “cover the tour,”
since only the visits to cities are
dealt with in the main, while
Tasmania is omitted except for
one brief mention and Brisbane
is treated very slightly.
It falls short, too, in a lack of
indoor shots —none of the ban-
quets, balls or scenes inside Par-
liament Houses. Above all, it
lacks the spirit of the tour.
Yet there is much of interest
in the pictures of the feasts and
dances in Fiji and Tonga, the
Maoris in New Zealand, the
decorative arches in Sydney
streets, the display and march-
past in Canberra, the school-
children’s outstanding display in
Melbourne, and the Queen’s
departure from Perth. Worth
seeing, too, are the tourist shots
of the trout-streams and moun-
tain-country of Maoriland, the
South Coast of N.S.W. and the
gardens of Adelaide. The com-
mentary, calm, composed and
well-mannered, is as uninspired
as the film.
♦j»
“Volcano”: A melodramatic
story of how a woman who has
ruined her own life tries to pre-
vent her young sister from do-
ing the same thing. It is rescued
from triteness by the volcanic
personality and acting of the
•Magnani, and the rocky-island
setting in the shadow of Vesu-
vius. The dubbed-in sound is
more acceptable than Italian
titles would have been, but
American accents come oddly
from the lips of a primitive
island folk. At Sydney Esquire.
* *> *l*
“Three Sailors and a Girl” :
A quick-smart musical, bright
and lively from start to finish.
Gene Nelson’s tap-dancing, in-
cluding an amusing sequence in
a garage and over hydraulic
hoists and car-pits, is snappy;
Gordon Macßae and Jack E.
Leonard are the other two
sailors who put on the usual
show on Broadway which first
flops and then succeeds; Jane
Powell, shapely and nimble,
sings well except when she tries
to out-Hutton Betty Hutton in
“Kiss me, kiss me, kiss me or
I’ll scream,” At Sydney May-
fair.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
(HOLD this Lester Ross there
against the car a bit longer,
then I ease the grip on his
neck. So he can talk.
“Don’t be a dope, Delaney,”
he gasps. He’s indignant. But
he keeps still.
“Who was it?”
“It wouldn’t do any good to
tell you,” he says.
“Wouldn’t do them no good,
you mean.”
“Look, Delaney, let go of me.
We had to do it.”
“Talk.”
“Well, you came out here.
You’re on a murder charge.
You say you’re Carson’s partner.
We had to find out for sure.”
“So you got someone to bonk
me on the nut and go through
me?”
“That’s right.”
“Keep talking.”
“Well, they was told to get
your papers. We wanted to
make sure about you.”
“So they got my papers?”
He’s over the scare now.
Because I’ve let go and standing
there. I wasn’t worried about
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
the papers. They wouldn’t tell
anybody a thing. But I wanted
this Ross to know I wasn’t the
kind to be jumped and not do a
thing about it. All right. So
maybe he knows it, now.
“Here’s your wallet.”
He hands me my wallet. I
know what’s in that. I don’t
bother to look in it. Nothing
they’d want in there.
“All right,” I says, making
like I’m hot about it. “So you
wanted to find out about me and
you get some hoodlums to jump
me in the dark. Why in hell
couldn’t somebody ask, if any-
one wants to know about me? I
got nothing to hide.”
“You’re sudden,” he says. He
puts up a hand and feels his
neck. “You’re pretty good, too.”
So that’s the way I want it.
“I can look after myself,” I
says. “Them coots that jumped
me better not let me know who
they are, that’s all.”
He turns and gets in the car.
“Come on,” he says. “Aunt
Fredericka don’t like to be kept
waiting.”
“Never knew a woman that
did,” I tell him. I start the car
and head for Bellerive.
The headlights pick out shrubs
and garden-beds as we curve
round the drive and pull up in
front of the big house I’d seen
that afternoon. There’s wide
steps leading up to what they call
a patio. Palms on the patio and
a couple of pale blue lights burn-
ing. In back of the patio there’s
wide doors, open, and I see a hall
with shaded lights on the walls.
“I didn’t know the electricity
run out here,” I says to Lester
Ross.
“We generate our own,” he
says, “at the mill.”
The floor is some blond wood,
polished, with mats here and
there. On the wall is a long
table, with books and magazines
and a telephone, and above that
a kind of rack for hats and
things. We put our hats in the
rack.
The house is class. I get to
feeling kind of crumpled and
want a shave or a bath. There's
an archway ahead and I can see
it opens into a big room. The
big room has seats scattered
about, deep chairs and couches
and little chairs, the same blond
polished wood on the floor,
more mats, indirect lighting,
pictures on the walls, palms in
brass pots on either side of the
archway.
There’s a kind of soft light and
a quietness and the air is fresh.
On a little table I sight a tray of
decanters and glasses. I can hear
music from somewhere. One of
them old waltzes. Straight ahead
through the archway, on the far
wall, there’s a big tapestry
hanging.
Class!
Lester Ross goes through the
archway and I’m right behind
him.
“We’re here. Aunt,” he calls.
A chocky man in a dark suit
comes out of a big chair and
looks at me. He’s got a broad
face and eyes like black peas. I
watch him. He does a kind of
crab-walk round the chair and
gives himself a shake and stands
there, looking at me. I look
right back at him. I seen him
before. He’s the gink was driving
the black car that nearly cut
down Joyce Martin and me, the
car that had Jardine and a
woman in it.
I hadn’t seen her now. She
must of been in one of the chairs
with a high back, A real high
back. Because she’s nearly as
tall as me. She’s standing with
one hand on the chair-back,
looking at me. And she’s the
woman was in the car that day.
A feeling starts inside me and
tingles up my spine. Because this
is where I been trying to get.
This is part of the whole flaming
mess. This ties up with the blue
right from the start. I look at
Lester Ross. He’s moved to my
right, almost between me and the
chocky man.
“Yes, Aunt,” says Lester Ross,
and there’s a kind of fawning in
his voice, like he’s a little poodle
wanting somebody to pat him.
“This is Delaney. Delaney, this
is Mrs. Fredericka Amber.”
That rocks me a little. Because
way I saw it her name had to
be Ross.
Amber?
“Pleased,” I says.
She indicates a chair. It’s
round where I’ll be sitting facing
her. She sits down again, her
face turned to me as I move
round to the chair. Before I get
there the chocky man is standing
beside her chair.
“This,” she says, “is Mr. Olnec
Possibly you’ve heard of him?”
“How you doing?” I says. I
wait for him to hold out a hand.
He don’t hold out a hand. He
puts his black pea eyes on me
and there’s a flat kind of look in
them.
“Dobra vetchi,” he grunts.
That’s what it sounds like, any-
how. He keeps the eyes on me.
His face is broad and flat, the
mouth like a closed purse. His
ears stick out and the short black
hair on his head looks like wire.
While we stand there he looks
me over. Then he shoves his
hands behind his back and walks
away. I catch a couple of words.
“Nye dobra. Nye dobra,” is
what they sound like.
He’s walking to the end of the
room, his hands behind him, his
head bent.
“Same to you,” I says.
Mrs. Amber gives a laugh. I
never heard a little laugh that
could say so much.
“Don’t mind Peter,” she says.
“He’s Yugoslav, When he’s upset
he lapses into his own language.
He’s upset about you, Delaney.
You’d better sit down. Then we
can talk.”
I sit down. Lester Ross drifts
across the room and fades out a
door behind a piano.
You’re in my position you got
to keep your cards close to your
waistcoat and only play a trump
when you have to. I got here
fast, so fast I haven’t had time to
think. So I sit there and look at
this Mrs. Amber and behind me
I know the Yugoslav is prowling
about and Lester Ross gone
somewhere. And this big house
all quiet. Because somebody
turned the music off. There’s
nothing now. Only this Mrs.
Amber watching me and me
watching her and Olnec lying
back behind me watching both
of us.
She’s maybe twenty-five or
thirty-six. She’s dark, with black
hair parted in the middle and
swept back in one of them coils
behind her neck. Grecian, they
call it. Her eyes are long and
upslant at the outer corners.
She’s got a straight nose and one
of these rich mouths brunettes
have sometimes. Put her in a
kimono she’d look Chinese only
she’s too tall. Put her in a green
shawl and fuzz her hair a bit and
she’d look Irish. Her skin is just
a little darker than cream, and
smooth* Boy, is it smooth!
Maybe it’s the kind of face
launches a thousand ships, as the
fellow says. I wouldn’t know
about that. I sit there and look
at her and see the bright green
stones she’s got in each ear and
what I see is a woman maybe
twenty-five or thirty-six or any-
where between and there’s no
funny business about her. She’s
got a face cut like one of them
cameo things only right now it’s
cut like ice.
She’s wearing a pale-yellow
blouse and the V-neck is deep.
Down to what they call the
cleavage. Some cleavage. Her
skirt is a kind of silvery
grey, with a black belt, and her
nylons the same color, with green
shoes. I can see enough of her
nylons to picture the rest. The
cleavage and the black belt and
the nylons and her arms in the
short-sleeved blouse tell me she’s
got something and she knows
how to dress it.
It comes to me that maybe
she’d be something better than
Lorraine if she was dressed in
moonlight. It comes to me that
maybe Carson might of missed
something when he got killed.
Because I’m sitting there and
we’re looking at each other like
we’re waiting for a move, and
something comes from her. I can
feel it. Like a heat, but more like
a hot quiver. I can feel it getting
under my skin. And I don’t like
it. Because there’s this faint
quiver and with it there’s the
feeling you get when you can
feel a trap somewhere. You
can’t see it, but you know it’s
there.
I turn my head round and way
across the room this Olnec’s
standing, with his hands behind
him, watching us.
“So you’re Delaney,” she says.
Her voice smooth as her skin.
Low, too, like she don’t want
Olnec to hear.
My voice is low, too.
“That’s right,” I says.
“Carson’s partner, eh?”
“Sort of.”
“Charged with murder?”
“That’s right.”
“Did you do it?”
“No. He done it himself.”
“Ah.”
“I don’t care a twopenny dump
whether you believe me or not.”
“I don’t care—much —whether
you did it or not,” she says.
“Harry was about finished, any-
how.” She says it as cold as
you’d talk about an old hat you
had to throw away.
“Harry?”
“That was his name. Harry
Jardine. Didn’t you know?”
“No. I only saw him twice.”
She looks over my head and
calls, “Peter. Could we have a
drink? You’ll have a drink,
Delaney?”
“Way I feel I’ll have two
drinks, thanks.”
“Whisky?”
“Whisky.”
The Yugoslav catfoots across
the room with a tray carrying
bottles and glasses. He puts it
down on a little table beside
Mrs. Amber, As he bends he
turns his head and looks at me
and his eyes got something in
them makes me get set to go him
if he comes at me. Because his
eyes say he’d like to come at me.
Then he stands up and goes
away across the room again.
“What’s the matter with him?”
I says.
“He thinks you’re a menace,
Delaney, I think you’re a fool,
at least. Whether you’re a
menace remains to be seen.”
She’s handing me a whisky
while she’s saying it. She’s calm
and cool. You’d think she was
talking about the weather, or
something. Only she isn’t. She’s
talking about me, and she means
me.
Because as she says it she leans
across to hand me the whisky
and she looks at me from under
her eyes. I been looked at that
way by females before. Only
they was female eagles waiting to
pick out my liver.
Up to now I been flogging
myself along. Because it’s been
a big day, one way and another,
and I got a sore head and it’s
maybe eight or nine hours since
I ate. So I been flogging myself
along. Because things been
breaking fast and I got to keep
up with them. But I was peter-
ing out and the flogging wasn’t
doing much good.
Then I get this look from the
Fredericka beauty on top of the
look from Olnec and I’ve already
been jumped once and could be
again, because there’s no Sam
Paddo here and it isn’t his
business. I shoot the whisky into
me, neat, and wait for it to jack
me up. The whisky adds to what
the looks done to me.
I go out of my chair and across
the room to where some brass
fire-irons are stacked in front of
a black and gold firescreen.
There’s a poker with a heavy
brass head. I got it in my right
hand and my back against the
wall. I’m watching Olnec and
watching her.
“All right,” I says. “You want
to start anything, start it! ”
She don’t move. Olnec moves.
He’s maybe sixteen feet away.
He only moves a little. But
when he stops moving he’s got
a long-nosed gun on me.
We stand there maybe half a
minute. Nobody says anything.
I’m watching that gun. He’s
sixteen feet away and he could
miss, if he don’t know much
about guns. But the way he
holds it, down near his waist and
close in to himself, says he does
know something about guns. Her
eyes fixed on me and now they
got another look in them. A
sort of waiting look.
Three feet left of me is a
couch. I can go down behind
that in one move. Because I
can be fast if I have to. I can
THE STORY SO FAR
Delaney is working with Mel-
lish and Joyce Hunter in trying
to prove that Carson was mur-
dered. Delaney himself stands
charged with the murder of De-
tective Jardine, and is released
on bail. In the background
works a mysterious Mitchell.
Delaney has gone from Murray-
ford to Willets, where he meets
the Rosses and feels they know
something about Carson’s death.
He picks up Lorraine, a tele-
phonist, and makes love to her
in the belief that she might
know something. Afterwards he
is attacked iij. the dark and
comes-to in the parlor of Paddo’s
hotel. Paddo throws Delaney
out after dropping a hint that
excites Delaney. Going to his
car, Delaney finds Lester Ross,
who talks about a woman named
Fredericka. Delaney drags Ross
out of the car.


see the couch, but I don’t look
at it. I’m watching Olnec. He’s
got this waiting look, and it
comes to me he’s waiting for
Fredericka to say something.
I chance a quick look at her.
She’s on the edge of her chair.
She’s looking at me, and she’s
got the same kind of waiting
look. She’s frowning a little,
like she’s puzzled about the
waiting.
Something grips my left foot,
then my right. A pain goes up
both legs. It’s like my feet are
in clamps. I look down.
I can’t see anything, only
my feet. The pain is in my back
and I feel silly. When I lift my
head it won’t come up. Then it
does. Olnec is still there.
Fredericka is floating in her
chair and swelling like she’s a
balloon. The lights are red and
the room throbs. Heavy, it
throbs. I’m being pulled down.
I can’t see what’s pulling, but it’s
like a ton. And all the time
there’s the pain and the red light
and then the chairs and lights
rush together and up comes the
floor and hits me in the face.
12. Olnec
T’M lying on the couch, looking
■*- up at big rings on the ceiling.
Rings made of little roses joiped
together by leaves. I’m sick like
a poisoned pup and something
the cat dragged in, and I reckon
it’s not me lying on the couch,
but only what I’ll be a hundred
years from now.
Dust!
So I’m dust and waiting for
somebody to blow me away or
sweep me up with a broom and
dump me in the waste-box and
be done with it.
Somebody comes between me
and the ceiling, but not to blow
me away. Because my shoes are
off and my shirt open at the
neck and the somebody is
Fredericka. I can’t see her face,
but I can identify the cleavage
where it’s close to me.
So I identify the cleavage.
“How do you feel, Delaney?”
“Where did he hit me?”
“What!”
“The Yugo—with his gun- -
where”
“Don’t be a fool. Peter
thought you were going to attack
us, with the poker. He wasn't
going to let you do that. Then
you collapsed. Nobody shot
you.”
“So I collapsed.”
The cleavage moves away from
me. My eyes follow it to where
she sits in a chair close by. My
eyes swing back to my feet,
where they lie without shoes. I’m
wearing blue socks. Above the
spcks is Olnec. He’s got his black
pea eyes on me. He isn’t smiling
or scowling. He isn’t anything.
His face is just the sallow, broad,
dead pan these Slavs wear. It
comes to me his face would look
like that whether he was killing
a man or kissing a girl.
“Delaney,” Fredericka says,
“it’s obvious you’re not well.
We”
“I got a crack oh the head
tonight. You’d know about that,
I reckon. I haven’t eaten a
thing since lunch. I been on the
go all the time. The double-
whisky bowled me, coming on
top of everything. 1 reckon you
know how it is.”
“You’re in no condition to
talk. Anything that happened to
you was brought on by your own
foolishness. It was the most
idiotic thing to come out here
with the police watching you.
The more I think of it the more
idiotic it is. I’m sure Lloyd
would never have”
“Listen, Mrs. Amber, I was
in a spot. You’re in a spot you
do the best you can. I reckon
I was doing the best.”
She stands up. She looks
across the room. Not looking at
anybody or anything, just sort
of seeing behind and ahead.
She’s running this thing—what-
ever it is—and she’s thinking
deep about it. I shut up, because
maybe I can say too much. I’m
Delaney, Lloyd Carson’s partner,
the way I got them seeing it—
the way I hope I got them seeing
it. So maybe I can say too
much.
I’m right in a spot now, but
I’m the only one that knows it.
Only for one thing I wouldn’t be
in this spot. Only for Jardine.
Only for Jardine I’d have been
to hell and gone from Murray-
ford days ago. But Jardine blows
his face open and the police think
he had something on me and I
shot him. There was Carson
getting killed and that Mitchell
bird, and then Jardine. I don’t
know a thing about Jardine,
except that this woman and this
Olnec know something about
him. They know something
about Carson, too. They was
in something with Carson, some-
thing the police would maybe
want to know about. Out here,
in this two-by-four Willets full
of Rosses, they was in something
with Carson. It sticks out like a
sore thumb there’s a tie-up with
Carson and Jardine, and way I
see it there’s a tie-up with them
and this Amber woman and the
whole Willets set-up. So I’m
here and sick on a couch in
Bellerive and Mrs. Amber telling
me I’m a fool and thinking me
over. And Olnec on my back all
the time.
So maybe I can say too much.
I don’t say anything. I make
like I’m a lot groggier than I am
and wait.
Because you’re in a game like
this you’re on your own and
comes a time when you just got
to wait.
So I wait.
Fredericka gets up from the
chair and looks at me again.
Then she says to Olnec, “Bring
Lester here and tell Quin to get
the little room ready.”
Olnec walks to the foot of the
couch and stands there and looks
at me. His face kind of dead,
but not his eyes. His eyes are
alive and they look at me and
they’re black and cold.
“It is not good,” he says.
“Not good, this Delyney is.”
“Oh, bother you and your
opinions,” Fredericka tells him.
She’s impatient. “Go do as I
say.”
Olnec looks at me a little
longer, then he goes “Pah! ” and
turns away,
“Peter doesn’t trust you,” says
Fredericka. “I don’t know that
I do, myself. You certainly
don’t act in a way to make
people trust you.”
“All right,” I said. “But you
got to see it my way. All I know
when I come to Murrayford is
that Carson sent for me. Only
two reasons why he’d do that,
Mrs. Amber. Either he’s on
something big and he needs me
to work one end of it, or he’s
scared and he wants me to help.”
“Can you help anyone who is
scared?”
“Well, I’ve helped Carson
when he’s been that way.”
She gives that little laugh of
hers.
“Does that mean you aren’t
easily scared?”
“I been scared, plenty times.
But I can handle myself. Lloyd
wasn’t any good at that. You
put Lloyd in a brawl and he'd
get out of it any way he could.
Me, I’m different. Besides, 1 got
muscles and I know how to use
them.”
No harm in throwing a chest
at her. She’s a bossy woman and
maybe it puts me in good with
her if I don’t* boss too easy.
Because these bossy women
sometimes get tired of having
men run about for them. Some-
times they like a man to tell them
where they get off.
She gives me a little smile.
When she does that it’s like she
shed a few years and was a girl
again. Because the smile is young
and kind and sweet.
About then Lester Ross comes
in, and behind him Olnec.
“Well,” Fredericka says, “we’ll
see about it. But you must have
rest now, Delaney. And you
must be away from here before
daylight. Rest now, and we’ll
talk later.”
“Before daylight?” I says.
“Yes, of course. You’re under
police surveillance, aren’t you.
Do you think we want you here
and the police keeping their eyes
on you?”
“That’s right,” I says, I
haven’t got a clue what she’s talk-
ing about, but I’m playing along,
“That’s right. Only you got to
see it my way. I had to locate
you some way.”
“Very well,” she says. “Go
now, and rest. Lester, help him
to the little room ”
Lester bends down and helm
me off the couch I nick uo mv
shoes Olnec moves in on mv left
side and gete a hand uX mv
armpit § Y
»You keen that eun in vour
pocket Pete ” I savs Y
“Pahi” he savs '
Thev take m/ nnt
Tt , ]itt] ' n , ■
abt:t i e 111 done m
'** s . d ° w " a sbo T rt P assags
°f ™ ai ? haß a J d 1 lts
at tbe back , ot tbe . b,g bouB f
b^ bere ? a windo y v ’ aad
tbr °^ gb the window, against the
n * gbt ’ 1 can see som ® sort a
sbed . 01 j f ara f e with a smgie
e l ec tnc-bulb burning on the
g abl f- , u +
° u lnec leaves us when we get
to the room and Lester shows me
some Pyjamas on the bed, which
is s tar , ned down -. „ ,
They’re mine,” he says.
“You’re about my size.”
“Where’s my bag? I says.
“ Your ba 8?”
“It was in the car. In the
back.”
“I didn’t look,” he says. I
run the car in the garage there.
We didn’t want anyone seeing it,
out front of the house.”
So they didn’t want anyone
seeing the car. They re not miss-
ing any tricks. The car’s in the
garage and it’s my bet the garage
is locked and that stops Delaney
getting out of here unless be
walks
walks. .
Look, I says. I want a
shave and a bath. There’s
shaving-gear and clean things in
I’ll get it.”
He goes out. I strip down to
my pants and wait for him. I
take my watch off. It’s ten-
fifteen. Maybe I’ll get three
hours’ sleep. The room is small
and white and so is the bed.
There’s a dressing-table and a
chair, a wardrobe and a % picture
on the wall. 1 8° over and look
at the picture. Two dark trees
han 8 in 8 over a pool, two swans
on the pool> 1 g 0 and look out
the window - Alll see 18 the ni § ht
and the shed with the on ll *
Lester Ross comes m - He puts
my bag on the floor -
“There’s a bathroom. Second
door along the passage,” he says,
“You’ll find what you want there,
Quin is bringing you supper.
Get some sleep, boy. I’ll call
you at half-past three.”
I look at him.
“You want to be away by
dawn,” he says. “It’s dawn at
g ye> j n tbese parts.”
“Won’t take me an hour and
a half to get dressed and away?”
“There’s a lot to talk over
before you go.”
“That’s right. I overlooked
that. You don’t feel like talking
now ?”
“Not me,” he says, with a grin.
“Her! You get some sleep,
kiddo!”
Kiddo!
You wouldn’t read about it,
wa y Tm in good with this Lester
Ross. But it don’t surprise me.
Because he thinks I’m big time.
I’m from the big city. I’m Lloyd
Carson’s partner.
I make for the bathroom.
When I get back there’s a
woman in my room. Small, fat,
fair, maybe thirty. She s standing
by the dressing-table. There s a
tray with cold meat bread,
butter, tomatoes. The room
smells of hot coffee. Behind the
there’s an alarm-clock
tray meres an aiarm ciock.
The bath made me feel good.
Sordid the shave.
-YoX
real peach. You stay around and
maybe I’ll peel you.’
I give her a grin to show
there’s no harm.
She giggles and wriggles.
“The missus sent the clock,"
she says. “It’s set for half-past
three. You can put the tray on
the floor when you’ve finished."
She heads for the door at
something well under sixty miles
an hour. Because she’s fat and
fair and maybe not used to being
in a room with strange men at
this time of night. She likes the
bit about being a peach and get-
ting peeled. I try to peel her it’s
seven-to-four she’ll fight me off
and maybe yell the place down.
But she don’t mind thinking
about it. So she takes her time
about leaving.
I got a mouthful of meat and
bread.
“Home comforts,” I mumble,
running my eyes over her. “First
a feed and then a choice little
parcel to undo. I bet you got
dimples on your knees.”
She giggles and wriggles some
more.
“Wouldn’t you like to know,”
she says. She lingers by the door.
I’ve had this. I put down the
meat and put a look on my face
and step towards her. She lets
out a breath and goes through
the door and I hear her half-
running along the passage.
Ha-ha!
After I eat the supper I put on
my pyjamas and put Lester's
pyjamas on the dressing-table. I
put a cigarette in my mouth and
sit there and think. I got plenty
to think about. Too much to
think about.
I let the whole thing dribble
through my mind, all the way
from Lay Down Misere Mitchell
in the plane to me sitting here in
Mrs, Fredericka Amber’s house.
I’m sitting here and it’s all
behind me and around me and
inside me and I’m damned if I
can see anything but one big
mess getting bigger. I thought
{Continued on next page )
“Where did he hit me?. .. The Yugo—with his gun—where”-


Prices have been reduced
NOW FROM
£799
ai
JtlMWUfil
m
>4
Sfia^v^
POWER HAS BEEN INCREASED, TOO -
AND NEW FEATURES ADDED!
Your
Nuffield
Pealer
will qive
i/jou all
tk facts-
Prove its
Performance
on tjour
land /
LOWER PRICE. Basic, kerosene-operated tractor with
electric lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar,
independent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge scat,
chaff screen and canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs, £799.
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE
EQUIPMENT. 6.00 x 19 (front), 11 x 36 (rear),
£BO additional.
7.50 x 18 (front), 14 x 30 (rear), £lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18 (front), 14 x 30 (rear), with 600 lb.
incorporated in each rear wheel, £264 additional.
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT. 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and P.T.0., £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels also available.
MORE POWER. All (kerosene-operated) models have
been increased a full 10% in brake and drawbar h.p.!
MORE FEATURES. New, modified front-end and steer-
ing make it even more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O. controls now engage independently—
operate separately or together!
smc:
NT.24.24
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH
Between
Ourselves
d
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories m
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
I had an idea when I headed for
Allendale and it died right in
Allendale. Because Allendale is
a ghost-town. I thought the
idea come to life again when the
greasy man runs into Sam
Paddo’s bar and gives out about
Carson’s car. It sure come to
life, because the next thing is the
Lorraine girl and she’s an idea,
too.
She’s an idea, because she’s
a switch-operator in this Willets
telephone-office and I work it
right I’ll maybe get something
out of her. Something about
Willets. Because when I pick
her up I’m dead certain there’s
something in Willets. Something
to tie in with Carson, and Carson
ties in with the Mitchell
character, and with Jardine, and
with the whole cockeyed set-up.
Carson gets killed and first it’s
an accident and then Mitchell
calls me and—hey!
Mitchell!
That’s the bird I should have
gone after. He says Carson was
no accident means he knows
something. I sit there on the
bed and sleepy with the food and
the big day, and it comes to me
I been wasting my time. I been
chasing round this Wiilets try-
ing to get a lead on Carson
because it looks like Carson leads
to Jardine, and I run into these
Rosses and Sam Paddo and
Lorraine and Mrs. Amber
and this Yugoslav. I been work-
ing hard trying to make them
think I’m Carson’s partner and
what was safe with him is safe
with me. But it’s hard sledding.
Because Olnec don’t trust me
and he’s in it. Strong, he’s in it.
Sam Paddo won’t have a bar of
me. And it seems like he isn't
in it. Lester Ross goes for me
in a big way and what I ought to
do is kick his teeth in because
•
of Joyce Martin. I can’t kick
his teeth in because he’s one of
the good cards in my hand. I
get jumped outside Sam Paddo’s
bar because somebody wants to
get a line on me and they get the
line, which* don’t tell them a
thing, and when I come in on the
line there’s this Fredericka
proposition.
And she talks and acts like
she’s the boss.
“You’re a fool, Delaney,” she
says, “to come out here and
contact me with the police watch-
ing you. Because you’re on bail
for murder over Jardine. Jardine
was a fool, too. All right, maybe
you’re O.K. and maybe you’re
not O.K. We’ll see,” she says.
“But you got to be out of here
before dawn because we can’t
have the police prowling round.”
So I’m supposed to get some
sleep and be up at three-thirty
and talk and then clear out.
And I haven’t got a clue what
we’ll talk about. I know we’ll
talk about Carson and about
what Carson was in with this
Amber woman. But what was
they in? Maybe I’ll find out.
Maybe I won’t. Maybe the}'
know what Mitchell knows.
Maybe Mitchell is in it, too.
whatever it is. Maybe
I nearly jump off the bed.
Because all of a sudden it hits
me. Carson was killed on the
road. On the road out of
JMurrayford to Willets. It looks
like an accident. If it’s an
accident it don’t matter what
road he’s killed on. But if this
Mitchell bird knows what he’s
talking about, if Mellish has the
right idea about there being
something wrong, it does matter
what road.
Because if somebody bumped
Carson off on the road to Willets,
artd Carson was in something
with this Willets crowd—some-
thing the police would want to
know about -then it could mean
somebody in Willets got
C/^rson
_.* , .
1 sd there and this notion races
r ° und m my noggin and a kind
sick and scared feeling starts
U P iasi d £ me. Because if there s
a ”.Y, , m f J°, l! someone in
Willets killed Carson and made
d bke aa acc ? de^ t ’ tbe Y got
■ c * o^ e to this Amber woman,
.B°* to be close to this
Beflenve house
. co . ud be n . gbt bere m
tdis Bellenve house,
And they could have ideas
about me. Because I’m Carson’s
partner and the way they see it
I been acting mighty strange and
that could mean I know more
than I let on I know,
Way they see it I could know
Carson was no accident. Way
they see it, if I know that, I’m a
menace.
. You bump somebody off and
it’s secret and the police believe
it’s an accident and maybe you
get away with it. But somebody
else comes along, acting funny,
nd maybe they got ideas about
d, y°h §°t to do something about
it. . „ T
*° u t£ Slt , , 1 j,,
myself, and keep your head.
Because what I want to do is
get right up off that bed and out
that window and go for my life.
What I do is get up and walk
about and the thing takes hold
of me and I’m like to let it worry
the soul-case out of me. Only
after a while I get over the way
it hit me and somehow I get a
memory of Joyce Martin’s hazel
eyes looking at me with the tears
in them and it comes to me how
she stood up for me against
Mellish and pulled all her money
out of the bank to bail me out
and I hear myself saying, “Any-
body backs Delaney he runs a
straight race from go to whoa! ”
So that’s the way it is and I
got two things to do: Wait here
and see what this Fredericka has
to say, then get out of here and
see about getting a line on
Mitchell,
I put out the light and lie down
and I find myself listening to the
night and now I know I won t
sleep. Not with all this in my
head.
I’m looking at the dark and
what I see is that bottle of whisky
in the big room and the cabinet
Olnec got it from. I just got to
have some sleep before the clock
wakes me at three-thirty.
I get out of bed and put on
the light and open the door and
look into the passage. Nobody
in the passage. I go through the
door and draw it to behind me.
I’m in my bare feet walking on a
felt runner and I put a hand on
the wall and feel my way along
it making for that big room and
the whisky I know will make me
sleep.
I come to the end of the
passage and into the big room. I
wait there because I got to get
my bearings to locate the light-
switches, They should be on
my right by the other door the
one that leads into the big room
from the hall.
But before X can get my bear-
ings something moves in the
dark. Quick it moves and there’s
a click and the lights flash on.
There’s a man standing by the
light-switches. He’s got a gun
held in against his waist, its long
snout covering me.
I look at the gun and at the
man.
Olnec!
13. Olnec and
Fredericka
"COR about half a minute I
stand there and all I see is
the gun and Olnec’s face above
it. He’s maybe fifteen feet from
me, standing in the wide entrance
that leads to the hall. I’m close
against the wall. I can’t duck
behind anything or round any
corner because where I am there’s
just the wall on one side and the
nearest thing on the other is an
armchair. It’s every inch of ten
feet away.
I can’t duck and I can’t close
in. Because he could shoot me
down long before I get close. I
got no doubt he’d do it. His flat
face is cold and white, his
mouth pinched, and the black
eyes glowing.
We stand there. I’m watching
his face. Because it’ll change jf
he means to shoot and about all
I can do is watch it and if it
changes make a try for some-
thing. But it’s not going to do
me much good. Because he
knows how to use a gun.
“Ah,” he says, “Meester
Delyney! ”
“That’s right.”
“You are going where?”
So he isn’t going to shoot. Not
yet, anyway. He wants to talk.
That’s all right with me. That’s
very all right with me. But
before he can say any more some-
body else speaks up.
“What are you up to,
Delaney?” she says.
I hadn’t seen her. All I can
see now is her head and
shoulders. Last time I saw her
the shoulders were covered. Noi
now. Last time I saw her the
black hair was swept back and
coiled on her neck. Not now.
Her shoulders and arms are
naked now and the black hair is
tumbled all over her head. She’s
looking at me over the back of a
couch. She’s got one hand and
arm on the back of the couch
and she’s pushing the cloud of
hair back with the other hand.
Her face is shadowy. Shadowy
and soft. It’s becoming less soft
and less shadowy as she looks
at me. I don’t have to be told
how she is, there on the couch.
Because now I know why
Olnec is in his shirt-sleeves and
why he hasn’t any shoes on. He
must have heard me or sensed
me, some way, and he went
across the carpet to the switch
in his socks. I look at him and
I look at her and I look at the
gun and it comes to me this
Olnec could be bad medicine.
Because a man who could be
with Fredericka on a couch in
the dark and remember to keep
a gun handy all the time carries
all the ingredients of bad
medicine. I begin to think a
whole lot about Olnec.
Right now I got a slight edge.
I know what they’re doing here,
but they don’t know what I’m
doing. I start to tell them.
“Sorry,” I says. “I couldn’t
sleep. I remembered the whisky.
I thought I’d come and get a
whisky. To make me sleep. I
didn’t know there was anybody
here. Sorry.”
Fredericka gives a kind of a
little laugh and drops out of
sight behind the back of the
couch. I look at Olnec. He
keeps the gun on me, but he isn’t
sure of himself now. He darts a
look at the couch and then at me.
Then he goes and sits on a chair
and lets the gun rest on his lap.
“All right,” he says, “the
whisky.”
I want to laugh. The thing
starts to look funny. I can’t see
Mrs. Amber, but I know where
she is and I got an idea she isn t
feeling bossy right now. 1 can
see Olnec sitting there, with the
gun on his lap, and he’s got a
smirk on his face, but he wishes
he was somewhere else. But 1
kill the laugh and start across fhe
room to the sideboard where
the whisky is. Then I stop,
because it hits me that to get (o
the sideboard I got to pass round
that couch and that means I get
an eyeful of Mrs. Amber. I start
to go on again, because I got no
real objections to getting an
eyeful of her. But when I stop I
look at the back of the couch
and Olnec sees the look.
“Be still,” he says. “I get it.”
He waves the gun at me and
starts for the sideboard. All of
a sudden I know I got to do
something about this Olnec bird.
And do it quick. Because he’s
been on my back ever since I
come to this house. He packs
this long-snouted gun and pulls
it out nearly every time I look
at him. If I don’t do something
about him he’ll maybe pull it out
next time and I won’t have time
to do anything. A man like him,
cold and ready and with a gun,
is likely to use it any minute.
So I don’t want to get punctured
I got to take that gun away from
him. He’s short and blocky and
weighs maybe a hundred-and-
sixty, but that isn’t going to stop
me.
An hour ago I wouldn’t have
tackled him. An hour ago I
was tired and hungry, sore from
the bump on the noggin I got at
Sam Paddo’s pub, and gone in
the nerves. But the bath and
the feed brought me round, and
coming here and having Olnec
put the gun on me, and
Fredericka on the couch, is like a
tonic.
Way I feel about Olnec is a
tonic, too. Because I’m not
laughing inside any more. I’ve
had being pushed round by
Olnec. I’ve had Olnec butting-
in. I’ve had Olnec.
{To be continued next week)


ADVERTISEMENT)
■
StWA
Co\;
58
J
d
<s^
e
Ilv
%mmspn&
nn
<&
V
V»
■is
/OA
&
€7
</
I
iS
iff
1
m
Jfi
, ; :
i;
3>
%-■ ,4
<7
=r
vr'sftt.
sr
VS
27
\
>*\
■*sso
■:
• i.*i*
Xv
V-
£2
VAt,
,4
VC
VC
a
&
tv. : *
if/
S 3
tlv
C?
fJ3
I -.'-
m
e»
%r
VS
19
6*5
c"l;^
ve
a.
vs
\Q
-ma
I YOUR
v aw
a
SSJi
.i-A X
“Giveaway” Evatt would like to be extravagantly generous
with YOUR money—but what he gives you with one hand,
he must take away with the other.
His promised spending spree would cost £350 million—he would have to double Income
tax, or print so much paper money that a raging Inflation would bring ruin and misery to
us all.
Labor's spend-thrift finance would unquestionably result in controls of all sorts, restrictions,
rationing and war-time regimentation, in a vain attempt to keep the country solvent.
Evatt's irresponsible financial policy is the exact opposite of Fadden's successful policy
which has stabilised prices, lowered taxes and brought you real prosperity.
Remember that Labor leader Chifley warned his Party that it would be "madness" to finance
social services by bank credit—and that is just what Evatt proposes.
WARNING
Eygrt's bid^ for power is dangerous
He would bankrupt Australia
Vote for Sane, Responsible
VOTE
li
/
ImguSKmtn —« l iWWBIiiH
SSSS&S! ZrJK-' ;
Authorised by J. F. Dredge, Australian Country Party. 42 Bridge Street,


Commonwealth of Australia
d
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT 1951-1953
BRITISH SUBIECTS and NEW AUSTRMHS
THE UNDERMENTIONED MALE PERSONS, ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUS-
TRALIA AND NOT EXEMPT UNDER THE ACT FROM LIABILITY TO REGISTER
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN
1H m 1954 and Ist June 1954
mm sdmcts
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years between
Ist January, 1954, and 30th June, 1954 (inclusive)
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
Male Persons who are not British Subjects, and Naturalized
British Subjects not already registered, who attained the age
of 18 years during one of the following periods and were in
Australia on the date specified opposite that period
PERIOD (BOTH DATES INCLUSIVE) DATE
Ist Nov., 1950, to 31st July, 1951 Ist May, 1951
Ist Aug., 1951, to 31st Dec., 1951 Bth Oct., 1951
Ist Jan., 1952, to 30th April, 1952 25th Feb., 1952
Ist May, 1952, to 31st Aug., 1952 19th May, 1952
Ist Sept., 1952, to 31st Dec., 1952 15th Sept., 1952
Ist Jan., 1953, to 30th April, 1953 9th Feb., 1953
Ist May, 1953, to 31st Aug., 1953 18th May, 1953
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as ordinarily
resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who has been in Australia continuously for not less than 12
months is also regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
the penalties prescribed under the Act.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.I A) attached to it.
N.5.R.1.113.44
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem (and name of
author) containing these lines;
O proud, impatient Man, allow to Earth
Her seasons. Growth and change require
their winter
As a tired child its sleep. Thou art that
child; •
Lie down. This is the night. Day follows
soon.
Wake then refreshed, wiser for having
slept.
This is old nurses’ counsel, and the gods’,
For, if thou rest not, busy maggots eat
Thy brain, and all is dedicate to chaos.
—5794.
To buy copy of The Other Side of
the Record by Charles O’Connell and
Over the Reefs by Gibbings.—s793.
To buy copy of National Portraits
by Vance Palmer.—5792.
Information Sought
Some information on Peter Daw-
son ?
Born in Adelaide on Jan. 31, 1882,
he went to England about 1900 to
study singing under Charles Santley.
His first appearance as a professional
singer in England was at a church in
the East End of London for a fee of
7s. 6d. In the first 20 years and more
of his singing career, he made concert
tours of Australia, England, South
Africa, N.Z., India, Burma and the
Straits Settlements, but his reputation
mainly rests on his gramophone-
recordings—he himself has stated
that “I want to confess that my repu-
tation as a gramophone artiste was
the dominating success of my career
as a singer.” He is credited with
having made more recordings than
any other singer. He made his first
Australian concert-tour, as a member
of Amy Castles’s company, in 1909;
he was a great success. Shortly after
his return to England at the con-
clusion of the tour he made his first
appearance at the London “Proms.”
In 1913-14 he made a second tour of
Australia (and N.Z.), this time with
his own company. During World War
I he enlisted in the A.1.F., leaving
Australia as a battalion orderly-
sergeant in Queensland infantry; he
did not see active service, the war
ending as his troopship neared Panama
Canal. During World War II he
sang at innumerable concerts for
servicemen and to raise money for
war-loans, comforts-funds, etc.
* H= * *
(I) List of Australian Prime Minis-
ters and length of their Ministries ?
(2) Total period in which Labor and
non-Labor have ruled in the Federal
sphere ? (3) Has Australia been
governed well Federally ?
(1) Edmund Barton, Jan. 1, 1901-
Sept. 23, 1903; Alfred Deakin, Sept.
23, 1903-April 26, 1904; J. C. Watson
(Labor), April 26, 1904-Aug. 17, 1904;
G. H. Reid (Reid-McLean Coalition
Government), Aug. 17, 1904-July 4,
1905; Deakin, July 4, 1905-Nov. 12,
1908; Andrew Fisher (Lab.), Nov. 12,
1908- 2, 1909; Deakin, June 2,
1909- April 29, 1910; Fisher (Lab.),
Apl. 29, 1910-June 24, 1913; Joseph
Cook, June 24, 1913-Sept. 17, 1914;
Fisher (Lab.), Sept. 17, 1914-Oct. 27,
1915; W. M. Hughes (Lab.), Oct. 27,
1915-Feb. 17, 1917; Australian
National War Government (Hughes,
P.M.), Feb. 17, 1917-Feb. 9, 1923;
S. M. Bruce (Bruce-Page Coalition),
Feb. 9, 1923-Oct. 22, 1929; J. H.
Scullin (Lab.), Oct. 22, 1929-Jan. 6,
1932); J, A. Lyons, Jan. 6, 1932-Apl.
7, 1939; Earle Page, Apl. 7, 1939-
Apl. 26, 1939; R. G. Menzies, Apl.
29, 1939-Aug. 29, 1941; A. Fadden,
Aug. 29, 1941-Oct. 7, 1941; J. A.
Curtin (Lab.), Oct. 7, 1941-July 6,
1945; F. M. Forde (Lab.), July 6,
1945-July 13,1945; J. 8.-Chifley, July
13, 1945-Dec. 19, 1949; R. G. Men-
zies, Dec. 19, 1949. (2) In the 53
years of Federation the non-Labor
parties (which have changed and
developed since the first Parliament,
in which there were, besides Labor,
two non-Labor parties, Protectionists
and Free Traders) have governed
approximately twice as long as has
Labor —roughly, 35 years to 18
years. (3) On the whole, yes. The
later Labor Governments (Scullin’s
in the early ’thirties and, more par-
ticularly, Chifley’s in the post-war
period) often proved weak and lax,
conniving, for instance, at industrial
lawlessness and pursuing Socialistic
policies whose outcome would have
been inimical to Australia’s prosperity.
But Australia’s continued advance-
ment is proof that for most of the
time there has been sane Federal
government.
« * * *
(?) Did Ivor Evans design the Aus-
tralian flag ? (2) Some information on
how the choice of flag was made.
(3) What flag did Peter Lalor raise at
Eureka Stockade in 1854?
(1) Yes. (2) In 1901, following
Federation, Melbourne “Herald”
opened a nationwide contest for a
design for a national flag, to which the
Commonwealth Government then
gave official backing. In all 30,000
designs were submitted, from all parts
of the world. Seven judges, repre-
senting Army, Navy, mercantile
marine, etc., were appointed, and
unanimously selected the design sub-
mitted by Ivor Evans, then a Mel-
bourne schoolboy. The judges said
(a) Loyalty to the Empire is apparent
in the fact that the most honorable
position on the flag is represented by
the Union Jack; (Z>) it shows the
function of the States (represented by
the star in the lower half of the
hoist); (c) it has distinctiveness —the
fly of the Australian flag is charged
with the Southern Cross, the brightest
constellation in the Southern Hemi-
sphere; the stars forming a beautiful
symbol for Australia. Here are mile-
stones in the flag’s history, the dates
given being those of gazettal in the
Commonwealth Gazette: April 29,
1901, designs invited for a national
flag; Feb. 20, 1903, copies of
approved designs; Aug. 15, 1903,
official reference as to use of the Aus-
tralian flag; Dec. 19, 1908, alteration
to design; May 22, 1909, amended
design; Mar. 23, 1934, correct design
of the Australian flag in all details
published. (The 1908 alteration was
a seventh point added to the large
star in the lower half of the hoist to
represent the Commonwealth Terri-
tories.) (3) The flag hoisted by Peter
Lalor on Nov. 29, 1854, was a blue
flag, adorned with the stars of the
Southern Cross. It was captured by
the troopers on the Sunday morning
(Dec. 3, 1854), 7
* * * *
Who was Benedict Arnold?
Born in Connecticut in 1741, he
ran away from home at 15 and
took part in an expedition against the
French, but soon deserted and re-
turned home. Choosing the Army as
his career, he rose to command one
of the American forces which suc-
cessfully attacked Canada in Sept.-
Dee., 1775. On Oct. 11, 1776, in
charge of a flotilla on Lake Champ-
lain, he inflicted a severe loss on a
greatly superior British fleet (this was
the first engagement between British
and American fleets). These brilliant
exploits won for him Washington’s
friendship, but also brought him some
enemies. Charges of misconduct and
dishonesty were preferred against him,
but an investigation, tardily held,
declared in a report dated May 23,
1777, that his character and conduct
had been “cruelly and groundlessly
aspersed.” Arnold suffered some fur-
ther pinpricks, such as being passed
over for promotion, and then in
Feb., 1779, the executive council of
Pennsylvania, presided over by Joseph
Reed, one of Arnold’s most persistent
enemies, presented to Congress eight
charges of misconduct. On Jan. 26,
1780, the court practically acquitted
Arnold of these charges, too, but in-
structed Washington to reprimand
him. Incensed because he did not
receive an absolute acquittal, and
having apparently been disgruntled
for some time over all the slights he
had received, he decided to cross to
the British (though after his acquittal
he had received another Army com-
mand), He was employed by the
British in an expedition into Virginia
which burned Richmond, and in an
attack on New London (Sept., 1781).
He then went to England and was at
first well received by King and Minis-
try, but his usefulness to the British
seemed very limited and he lost favor.
He died in obscurity in London, a
disappointed and embittered man, on
June 14, 1801.
* * * *
(I) List of winners and placegetters
in the Ampol golf-tournament since
its inception ? (2) Amount of prize-
money won by leading competitors?
(3) Why is the Ampol tournament not
listed in the “Golfer’s Handbook’’
produced by St. Andrews (Royal and
Ancient ) Golf Club? (4) What is
the best winning tally?
(1) 1947, H. (“Ossie”) Pickworth,
1; W. Bolger, 2; E. Cremin, 3. In
1948 there were two tournaments.
1948 (May), Pickworth, 1; R. Want,
2; Cremin, 3. 1948 (Nov.), Pickworth,
1; K. Nagle, 2; Want, 3. 1949,
Pickworth, 1; Cremin, 2; Want, 3.
1950, A. Murray, 1; Cremin, 2;
Nagle, 3. 1951, Pickworth, 1; Cremin,
2; J. Brown, 3. 1952 (first division in
Sydney), tie between the American
Ed (“Porky”) Oliver and Norman von
Nida, Von Nida winning a one-round
play-off (they shared first-prize
money); third place, tie between Petei
Thoqison and American Jimmy
Denlaret. Amateurs, play-off between
Peter Heard and Keith Pix, Heard
winning. 1952 (second division in
Melbourne), American Lloyd Man-
grum, 1; Peter Thomson, 2; Von
Nida and Nagle, tie for third. 1953,
Pickworth 1, f L. Woodward 2, W.
Holder and P. Thomson, tie for
third. (2) Prizemoney has varied
from year to year, depending to some
extent on the paying attendance.
Pickworth, who has thus won the
Ampol six times, has won in all
£2843. Von Nida has won £lOl9 and
Cremin £lOl6. (3) Not known; but
it can be said that the Ampol tourna-
ment is the only major golf tourna-
ment conducted anywhere in the
world which is not listed in the
Handbook. Representations are be-
ing made in the hope that/it will
be included. (4) Pickworth’s 276 in
Brisbane in 1951 is best so far. In
1949 in Melbourne he went round in
277, 10 strokes better than runner-up
Cremin’s 287. The highest winning
tally, incidentally, was Pickworth’s
300 in Melbourne in the May, 1948,
Brief Answers
H.G.: The writer of the paragraph
advises that the information con-
tained in The Bulletin of Nov. 11,
1953, re chlordane for white-ants,
came from an American source. It
is not known whether local experts
recommend this treatment, but a
Sydney firm which does a large busi-
ness in the sale of white-ant exter-
minators is Houghton and Byrne Pty.,
Ltd., 2 Bridge-street, Sydney. This
firm stocks chlordane R.B .C.:
(1) Write Queensland Agricultural
Department, Brisbane, for pamphlet
“Clearing Muddy Water.” (2) Sheep
Management and Diseases by H. G.
Belschner, and Sheep and Property
Management by E. H. Pearse....
Mrs. C. 8.: This paper has always
used the contracted' form “Primini-
ster,” as we similarly use “ ’Sonah,”
“Lud Mayor,” etc. A kindred usage
is “S’Artie” for Sir Arthur Fadden.
In no instance is disrespect intended,
but The Bulletin, with its well-known
racy style, reserves the right to depart
as far as it can from the formal and
the conventional —without, of course,
lapsing into bad taste E.V.M.:
Unable to find any information on
cowboy-singers Slim Whitman and
Wilfred Carter.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.M.S.: That yarn has been doing
the round of the shearing-sheds since
the days of Cobb and Co J.C.H.:
Try “Meanjin” or “Southerly”—.
E.M.K.: There’s nothing like a
fountain when you’re short of a
rhyme for mountain R.8.C.: A
vein of humor would relieve it....
L.T.R.: “The incident was too funny
for words.” So it seems R.L.W.:
No room for faithful abo. who
handed over the treasures of his
ancestors to pay off the mortgage on
the old homestead G.R.: Resign-
edly awaiting further contributions.
D.B.; Timid and conventional.
E.W.C.: By now every bush
road in Australia must be immortal-
ised in print R.R.8.: In the
basket along with a dozen other
poems about sunsets G.R.M.: Six
lines, then:
“The game of housie-housie
Is a gamble really lousy,
And wicked,” says Mr. Cain,
“But the presence of a lottery
Provides a hobby just like pottery
And helps our coffers gain.”
G.C.C.: It may have been written
in Tokyo, but it will not be pub-
lished in Australia L.P.: You
belong, we note, to the “Ain’t Love
Grand?” school of poets A.8.G.:
Shows faint promise A.E.M.M.:
We return your good wishes—also
your verse J.A.W.; Well, it has
plenty of company in the w.p.b
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
G.F.A.: She came on a bouncing
breeze and departed in a whirlwind.
... .J.E.8.M.: They belong to a past
age T.H.: Try elsewhere C.S.:
Poem “To a Fat Couple Reclining
on the Grass in Wynyard Park at
Lunch Hour” raised a faint smile
R.H.T.: Pleasing enough, but not
quite up to our standard... .K.E.8.:
No bones for Bob J.R.: Come,
come now, dry those tears and smile.
B.G.: Four pages of doggerel
G. The third version is no
better than the previous tw0....
W.P.: It’s a bit late now to be bom-
barded with a poem about “Wollon-
gong’s welcome to the Queen”....
H. We suspect that there is a
doubt in your mind:
I do not know if verse of mine
Will ever grace a reader’s desk;
Or vie with others on a shelf,
In binding rich and picturesque.
K.M.G.E.: Clancy’s opinion of
the motor-car could have been better
expressed.... J.P.: It didn’t get within
cooee of print A.R.C.: The verse
didn’t hit the target, but would con-
sider a short prose article on the
phenomenon A.J.E.: Save it up
for the next visit M.S.: You say
that you are not a musician; neither
are you a poet. .> .F.W.P.: That is a
terrible last line... .P.M.S.: That is
the third kangaroo that bounded up
The Bulletin stairs this week....
M.T.: Send it to a religious weekly.
J.M.T.: Well, at least you seem to
sleep we11....8.G.: That style of
poem went out with Rupert Brooke.


A Visit and Some Impressions
Wealth from the Snowy
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
IT’S one of Australia’s oldest
dreams, this idea of pushing
rivers around, making big
dams. As it has been the
dream of other peoples. A
community’s destiny depends on
its ability to turn dreams into
reality, to create. But the wish,
and even the deed, are not
enough. There must be strength
to sustain the achievement.
The Snowy Mountains
Authority was established by
Act of Parliament in 1949, but
the idea, in broad outline, goes
back much further. Not just the
idea of a hydroelectric scheme,
but the idea of bending rivers to
the use of man. It was an idea
made more stinging here by the
contrast of turbulent rivers and
immense distances of reel, brown
and chocolate soil baking under
the hot Australian sun.
Droughts, and floods, and fires
that left districts as large as
countries black behind them.
In the early ’nineties the
Chaffey brothers established an
irrigation colony at Miidura
(Vic.), and, about the same time,
Renmark (S.A.) and Curlwaa
(N.S.W.) began to pump water
from the Murray. Water was
spread by gravitation-channels
through the Goulburn and Wim-
mera valleys; headlands and
irrigation-channels were started
in the Murrumbidgee Valley.
Specifically, the idea of using
the water of the Snowy River
has kept bobbing up from time
to time for the past 70-odd years.
At first for irrigation ; then for
power; then for both. And for
a number of years Victoria and
N.S.W. wrangled over whether
the water from the Snowy
should be diverted to the
Murray or the Murrumbidgee.
But the idea itself has re-
gained important enough to
capture the imaginations of suc-
cessive generations of Aus-
tralians. Even now, when the
Snowy Mountains Scheme has
been discussed rather thoroughly,
over a period of years, it still
has a glamor, an excitement.
Irrigation, in particular, has
retained its hold on the imagina-
tion. Take a place like Eurolie
Bridge—a very shabby little
bridge when I last saw it; a
tattered notice forbidding the
entry of fruit to the M.I.A.
its only ornament; a “whaler’s”
humpy half-hidden in a nest
of eucalypt-suckers, his flat-
bottomed boat moored to an
ancient river-gum, a set-line
tied to a sapling stuck in the
mud bank. And that’s about
all. But one side of the bridge
—the Narrandera side—is the
dry area; the Yanco side is
within the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area, a safe land of
summer green and small pros-
perous farms. There could
hardly be a greater difference.
Behind the suckers, on the
other side of a black lagoon—
known locally as a “bung”—a
paddock has curious patterns in
the soil, something like the
filled-in Turkish trenches at
Gaza. They are Sir Samuel Mc-
Caughey’s old irrigation ditches.
In a Bulletin poem Douglas
Stewart saw the Murrumbidgee
as a lively trout in the moun-
tains, a fat cod at Gundagai,
waiting to swallow the town. As
it once did; that’s why North
Gundagai is built on the side
of a hill. Even so, water some-
times spills over the wide flat,
the common and Anzac Park ;
the back creek rises and some
property below Sheridan-street
is flooded.
Water from the Murrum-
bidgee, banked-up at the Yanco
weir, runs into the main canals,
a comely pattern of shining lanes
of water; branches into lesser
canals, and into weedy earthen
ditches, and finally swells and
gurgles into the dusty bays.
Marked in the paddocks, like so
many drab squares of a uniform
chessboard’s dark lines, are the
raised earths separating the bays.
It’s like watching a huge labora-
tory demonstration of the mag-
netism of earth and water—the
water creeping or rushing down
the ditches ; headlands staining
at its progress, darkening, like
ridges of red-brown blotting-
paper ; the thirsty soil drinking-
in the bays till they are geometri-
cal pools of smooth squared
water.
The technique varies with the
crop—rice, fruit or improved
pasture —and none of it is new.
Or there can be combinations
of farming, fat lambs and cattle-
grazing on the headlands. The
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
had its early troubles, but now
it’s a safe, prosperous country,
with large thriving towns like
Leeton and Griffith. This is a
fragment of the old dream rea-
lised. But still a pretty sub-
stantial fragment, with a popu-
lation of about 30,000.
North and west is the irriga-
tion district of Benerembah,
Tabbita and Wah-Wah, running
close to the Lachlan: this area,
too, gets water from the Mur-
rumbidgee.
Downstream are the smaller
schemes. Hay and Lowbidgee.
And then the Murrumbidgee
joins the Murray, having col-
lected the Lachlan on the way.
The Murrumbidgee and the
Murray have travelled a long
way from that nest of rivers, the
roof of Australia. Here, now,
the Snowy Mountains Authority
goes ahead with its work, im-
pounding rivers and changing the
face of mountains. The con-
tracts seem to be going well.
The Norwegians, who expected
to finish the Guthega-Munyang
Tunnel on Norway’s National
Day, broke through about a
week earlier. The Common-
wealth has accepted a tender by
a group of French companies
for the construction of a TI
power-station on the Upper
Tumut —and the price was
£754,249 cheaper than the esti-
mated cost. Great things are
expected of the famous Kaiser
Group, soon to commence work
on the 14-mile tunnel, the long
vital link between the waters of
the Eucumbene (where the trout
are brown and big) and the
waters of the Upper Tumut
(where the rainbow-trout are
small but sweet); between the
Snowy, that is to say, and the
Murrumbidgee.
Great things, too, have been
expected of the Snowy Moun-
tains Authority; and despite
some mostly political criti-
cism, gradually, and with a cer-
tain pomp, as in the movement
of land-masses, these things are
becoming manifest. Roads and
bridges—about 90 miles of
heavy-duty, mountain-standard
roads and a hundred miles or so
of light roads which would de-
light many a shire, access tracks
and the like ; workshops, houses,
townships.
Down thick timber and
broken crops of rock, sloping
sharply like some vast, dark,
slippery-dip, to mere splinters of
water, ribbons of light winding
thousands of feet below, tracks
have been made: first men on
foot, then jeeps, then roads.
The transmission-lines already
plunge across-country, in straight
patterns, but up and down, sing-
ing in the alpine wind; lodged,
in places, where one wonders if
a wombat would feel really
happy; but the stout poles
planted true and firm. They
cleared the way with bulldozers,
of course; but it must been
rough work at first.
The pioneering work was done
on a scale and under conditions
which must be unusual for any-
where. Dr. Savage—the man
who designed the Grand Coulee
Dam on the Columbia River (the
largest dam in the world), the
Hoover Dam in Nevada (the
world’s highest dam), and who is
considered the world’s leading
consultant-engineer told me
that he considered the Snowy
scheme one of the very few “big”
projects in operation or under
construction.
The Snowy Scheme was, after
all, a big thing for a young nation
to attempt—a sort of challenge,
It could very easily have failed,
through having wrong men to
control it, too much political in-
terference, or from any one of
a thousand difficulties, technical
and personnel. When the
Authority was established it was
very difficult —in fact it was for-
bidden—to draw to any con-
siderable degree on local man-
power. So the Authority went
shopping for labor and technical
brains overseas. This has brought
a singularly broad stream
of knowledge to bear on the
Authority’s technical problems—
many of them peculiar—a sort
of alternating fresh eye on the
subject. It has also, in my
opinion, gone a long way to-
wards the creation of a special
kind of esprit de corps.
But that is now. It doesn’t take
much imagination to see the
complications involved in dump-
ing men of all nationalities in
construction-camps, miles from
anywhere by our reckoning; fur-
ther than that to men accustomed
to think ten kilometres a good
distance between villages. Any
two nationalities might not mix
—to put it mildly—so soon after
the war. The Germans and
Poles, to give an instance: but
there are intricate Balkan feuds
about which the outside world
knows little, dating back to the
conversion of a handful of the
Herzegovinian nobility to Islam,
massacre of Serbs by Bulgarians,
the rivalry between the Orthodox
Greek, Cyrillic-alphabet-writing
Serb and the Latinist Roman
Catholic Croat,
To make it worse, nationality
kept cropping-up in so many
ways that were important in the
communal life of a camp. As,
for instance, food. Important
enough anywhere, but something
that can create a glowing comfort
or a nagging grievance when men
are doing manual work in a
climate that makes motoring
visitors eat like wolves. If there
is a predominance of Italians in
a camp, and an Italian cook,
naturally there will be Italian
cooking. Fine for the Italians,
but what about the no-less-hun-
gry Germans? Not to mention
a minority of vocal Australians,
Anything like this could be a
spark to a good deal of explosive
material. There is, anyway, a
compression of energy, a touchi-
ness, about men crowded to-
gether in a tight, womanless
society bounded by the job and
the camp. Weather could make
isolation more complete. This
contraction —a feeling of being
held in a rigid arc —is a condition
of all big construction jobs, and
finds its outlet in big gambling,
drinking and fighting the world
over. Like all things that are
picturesque, this common phase
of masculine behavior loses
nothing in the telling by people
who see it from the outside,
where the men go to relax.
In such cases, usually, there is
some antagonism, perhaps only a
coolness, between inhabitants
and invaders; combined with
brisk trading. The distinction
made in a townsman’s mind is
often not whether a man is a
New Australian or an Australian,
a Norwegian or an Austrian, but
whether he is a local or a
stranger. Then, as Plato re-
marked of soldiers and bandits,
there is a growing solidarity
among the “invaders” —the
“Snowy men,” as they call them-
selves. They have become more
and more self-sufficient in
amenities, drinking, eating. As
camps become established, as
electric-light, sewerage, finally
houses, are provided, wives move
in to join their husbands. There
is more social life and the place
settles down.
These things possibly go a
long way to explain a faint aloof-
ness in the old hands —the men
who have discovered that they
like the life. There is a certain
aggressive cosmopolitanism, a
mannered friendliness. As
though they were saying, “Look,
we know you come from Syd-
ney, where people are more
backward, but up here we are
different. We are a pattern of
the Australia of tomorrow. Meet
my good friend Karl Schmidt.”
Most of them, and the New
Australians in particular, seem a
bit contemptuous of the cities ;
mixed with vivid flashes of nos-
talgia. At Island Bend a Polish
barrister, who is now a catering
manager, disapproved of King’s
Cross. Too many foreigners,
he said. Seeing my surprise, he
explained. It wasn’t their
foreignness, but their insistence
on it, a parade. It was the type
—a flamboyance, .and a pretence
to things they didn’t possess. Oh,
yes, it existed, European culture,
make no mistake! But it wasn’t
a patent. You didn’t have it
because you were European, but
because you were that sort of
person. At the other end of the
scale, he said, there are the
others, not poseurs, simple folk,
sincere. But they won’t let the
old scars heal. They keep pick-
ing at them.
It would be naive to assume
that all is sweetness and light.
The old scars do not heal so
easily. It is a continuing pro-
cess, this welding-together of
races. A piece of human en-
gineering as impressive, in a
minor key, as the other sort. For
there can be no doubt that this
is an uncommonly fine thing.
Thus there was a complemen-
tary drama to the clash of man
and Nature, a clash of nationali-
ties, and a gradual sorting-out.
« * *
Summer grazing first began
on the high country in the
1860’s, after the gold discoveries
at Kiandra, and has continued
under a system of snow-leases.
Kiandra was a mighty boom
town, and gold has remained as
a lure for individual fossickers
and for individual graziers, who,
over the years, have put the
equivalent of a good many head
of stock into holes in the ground.
There has remained a stubborn
belief in the existence of a
mother-lode of fabulous wealth
from which the other finds were
merely fragments.
When the Snowy Mountains
people began operations this
conviction flared up again.
Surely, it was argued, if any-
one was going to find the
mother-lode they would, dig-
ging, testing, analysing and tear-
ing up the sides of mountains
with great machinery! A ver-
sion of the legend, retailed with
varying degrees of seriousness,
is that of hard-hearted Snowy
engineers finding rich quantities
and throwing it back into the
river, for fear of disorganising
their programme. Which is, any-
way, an indirect tribute to their
single-mindedness.
Skiers knew Kosciusko
within narrow limits. Stockmen
knew the snow-leases. Prospec-
tors and doggers had wandered
and camped in the high country.
The Mitchells, of Towong Hill
Station (Vic.), had made some-
thing like a deliberate study of
the mountains, not, primarily,
as graziers, but as enthusiasts.
There had been some survey-
ing over the years. During
1915-18 the N.S.W. Government
toyed with the idea of develop-
ing hydroelectric power from
o Continued on page 27)


A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
•Scotch whisky.
the name is
(D c Cdlluiris
the whisky is
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS.
MCl7a/6.2
Missing Beneficiaries
THE children of ALFRED PAYTON, who
was born about 1850, a son of JAMES
PAYTON and ELIZA RICE, and the
children of JAMES FREDERICK
MATTHEWS who was born in 1862, the
son of THOMAS GIBBON MATTHEWS
and MARY JANE COWLEY, are entitled
to share in the £llOO estate of BEAT-
RICE EVELYN PAYTON. Will they, or
any person having information about them,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria ?
Missing Friend
MALCOLM McFARLANE formerly of
Pendle Hill in the State of New South
Wales or any person knowing his present
whereabouts please communicate with
MESSRS. ABBOTT, STILLMAN &
WILSON, Solicitors, 422 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Public Notice
Wfh LJUBOMIR PAVLOVICH and
KVBTOSLAVA PAVLOVICH, of Yugo-
slavia and Czechoslovakia nationality re-
spectively, born at Beograd and Mor.
Ostrava, resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 94 Cathedral Street, Syd-
ney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
I; ;
YOU CAN INSTAI. FT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established jor 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane. ~
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.. Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St.. Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z,), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Small fields on the final couple
of days and reduced line-ups
on the first two days of the
recent autumn Randwick meet-
ing convinced the A.J.C. com-
mittee that vital changes were
necessary to ensure bigger attend-
ances and more starters over the
four days of the spring carnival
(October 2,4, 6 and 9).
It has been decided to alter
the usual running of the main
double, to cancel one or two
long-staged races, and to add
a couple of events for moder-
ate gallopers, moves which
should attract strong public
support over the four days.
Looking over the changed pro-
gramme, it seems that competi-
tion will be keener in most
races, and this coming spring
carnival at Randwick could
prove one of the
in A.J.C. history. The Epsom
Handicap is to be run on the
second day and the Metropoli-
tan on the final day. This will
eliminate the often-discussed
Randwick Plate, which in re-
cent years has been contested
mostly by modest stayers. A
Novice Handicap will be staged
on the final day and a Gradua-
tion Stakes on the third day, an
indication that the A.J.C. is
meeting existing conditions and
not sticking to tradition.
Track conditions at Warwick
Farm suited dainty - footed
sprinter Liquid Fire, whose
connections won some thousands
in stakes, and whose trainer,
Ron Easton, had a man-sized
job to get the horse to the post.
Liquid Fire had a recurrence
of the foot-trouble which has,
at intervals, kept him from
racing, but the stable has had
the Remarc gelding fit for a
few weeks now and is making
every post a winner while his
race-condition is maintained. He
put his feet down in the right
places to win the Flying Handi-
cap in I.ll| (the going had been
slightly affected by morning
showers). Liquid Fire has
shown ability on damp ground,
and the stable secured a tidy
price (fives), following the win
of the previous week at Canter-
bury. Saturday’s success was his
third from four starts. In the
other he was a close second to
Magic Touch at Randwick, and
Magic Touch was second to him
on Saturday.
Danmark Pty., Ltd., bred
Bespoken, winner of the Second
Warwick Farm Maiden Juvenile,
and Belle Elect, who dead-
heated for first in the fillies’
Maiden Two-year-old. Former
is raced by Mrs. W. J. Smith
and Belle Elect by W.J., who
the previous Saturday had won
with outsider Biff at Canterbury,
where Bespoken was unplaced.
Mrs. Smith’s colt is a son of The
Groom and Hippolyta, a
Charles Fox mare. Belle Elect
is a Beau Son filly from Elec-
toral by Ajax.
Strictly on form, Paralla
had nothing to recommend him
for the Second Juvenile Maiden
at Warwick Farm; he hadn’t
been closer than fifth in three
starts, and little was known of
his track ability. However, the
colt was a street-corner tip and
was always favorite, easing
slightly to 9 to 4 at barrier-rise.
Paralla carries the colors made
famous by Carioca. Both are
owned by Queenslander Jack
Booshand, but Carioca is raced
on lease by Paralla’s trainer,
P. C, Hoysted, who was confi-
dent the two-year-old would
run a sound race. Paralla
simply toyed with opponents and
should soon repeat the perform-
ance in better company. He is
by Parhelion (imp.), a son of
Midday-Sun, and from Kar-
dinia, a sister to speedy Yaralla
and True Flight, by The Buz-
zard (imp.) from Even Keel by
Highfield (imp.). Melbourne
Cup winder Old Rowley be-
longs to Paralla’s family.
Though Salamanca might be
“old enough to vote” it has to
be remembered he did little
early racing, none at two years,
and little at three, and this prob-
ably has enabled him to stay
long on the Turf and still win
against much younger rivals.
He had an easy task' in the
Warwick Farm Moorebank
Handicap, the stable giving him
a good show on the “dead”
going on which he runs his best
races. Apprentice H. Bowdler
had him in front most of the
way. Trainer Fil Allotta has
placed the veteran to advantage,
and he should win more races
in similar company.
Race-form was no strong
pointer to Lindos for the First
La Trobe Stakes (for two-year-
olds) at Caulfield, but the colt
started favorite and scored in
good style. Bought at the Mel-
bourne yearling sales last year
for 900 gns. by Melbourne
trainer A. Lopes, he is raced in
partnership by that mentor and
S. De George. First foal of his
dam, Veritable Lady (imp.),
Lindos is by Great Britain, a
winner of the V.R.C. Derby and
the Caulfield Guineas. H. G.
Raymond St. Albans stud, Gee-
long (Vic.), bred Lindos.
(
Not many of the progeny of
the English sire Chantry (late
Chanter) have raced in Mel-
bourne, but one of his get,
Palestrina, won the Second La
Trobe Stakes on Saturday. The
gelding’s dam, Heat Wave, is by
Equator (imp.) from Rossmoyne
by Rossendale (imp.). Chantry
won eight races and was placed
seven times in England, and is
a member of the same families
as Magpie, Heroic and The
Buzzard.
Sydney- and Melbourne-
trained horses have been much
in the limelight at the Q.T.C.
winter carnival in recent years,
a Sydney pair, Suncup and
Hydrogen, lifting the main
double —Stradbroke Handicap
and Brisbane Cup —last year.
Ridden by G. Podmore, Suncup
started at 14 to 1 and beat Malt-
maid (20’s), with Sydney-owned
and -trained French Echo (nines)
third. Winner’s share of the
£lO,OOO stake was £7OOO. Hydro-
gen started at 3 to 1 for the Cup
and beat Melbourne-trained
Welkin Sun, with another from
Sydney, Maynard, third, and yet
another. Sea Sovereign, who
had cantered in with the Q.T.C.
St. Leger, fourth. Time for the
two miles, 3.22, was average.
■ • ■ •
The 1953 Stradbroke, which
previously had been decided at
six furlongs, was for the first time
run at seven furlongs. Prior
winners of the Stradbroke from
Sydney included Aqua Regis,
Abbeville and Capris, while for-
mer Sydney-trained Brisbane
Cup-winners included Putoko,
Silver Buzz and Good Idea.
Prince o’ Fairies and Sanctus
were Melbourne-owned winners
of the Cup in late years.
Luck has been against New
Zealand stayer Earldom on his
Australian visits, but he could
compensate connections with a
win in the £12,000 Brisbane Cup
next month. It might be a bit
much to hope for, but Earldom
is a proved stayer, and after his
good second to Liberal King in
the May Handicap at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, he had solid
support for the Brisbane Cup.
The six-year-old horse has won
seven events in * the Dominion,
but minor places have been his
lot in three Australian States.
They include the Doomben Cup
in Brisbane and the Hotham
Handicap and Moonee Valley
Cup in Melbourne. It is now
nearly 18 months since he won
a race. Brought back to Sydney
last month for the Sydney Cup,
he was a late withdrawal after
a poor showing in the Tocal
Handicap. In the slowly-run
Warwick Farm race at 11 fur-
longs, Earldom was not suited
and was set a task trying to lead
all the way with 9st. He might
land a race leading up to the
Brisbane Cup.
Sydney trainer Gordon Brown,
who has won recent provincial
events with Colonel Jim and
Pirate, at one time prepared
Murray Stream and Grand Pro-
dige; they are now siring
winners at Queensland meetings.
Murray Stream was one of
the most brilliant track-gal-
lopers on Sydney courses. He
was in training at Rosebery, and
whatever any other horse could
do, he could do better. His bril-
liance enabled him to win 19
races, fill 10 minor placings, and
earn £28,762 in stakes. Grand
Prodige was a lesser-light, but
won his share of races. Both had
winners at the Ipswich (Q.)
meeting on Saturday.
# * *
The Fijian Rugby Unionists
beat Newcastle fairly comfort-
ably, 28-15, playing a loose, fast
game. The visitors aren’t very
excited about their form or con-
dition so far ; and, of course,
their unorthodox play —long
passes and such —becomes easier
to combat the longer they play
here. Their faults —positional,
and in scrums and rucks —are
patent ehough. Their virtues are
individual —speed, enthusiasm,
and a control of the ball that
seems due to a natural coordin-
ation rather than to practice.
One has the impression that they
might easily become bored in
the middle of a Test game. Still,
at their best they are excellent,
at their worst they can produce
exhilarating flashes of brilliance.
They are remarkable chiefly be-
cause they have introduced a
spirit of carnival into the some-
what dour game Rugby Union
most often is.
In Rugby Union club games
in Sydney, joint leaders St.
George and University were both
beaten. Randwick beat Uni-
versity (19-16) because the green
forwards kept the ball away
from University backs ; Gordon
beat St. George (14-9) because
Gordon forwards secured the
initial advantage, fullback Mc-
Carthy saved the day more than
once with sound line-kicking,
and when the St. George coun-
ter-attack came the backline
(particularly the Phipps brothers)
held in solid defence. In other
games Manly beat Parramatta
(28-3), Eastern Suburbs beat
Northern Suburbs (25-11), and
Eastwood beat Drummoyne
(9-5).
* ♦ ♦
In the fifth round of the
V.F.L., Hawthorn, looking a
likelier team each game, toppled
a weakened Geelong by five
points (14.13-13.14), the first
time the Hawks have beaten
Geelong since 1948. Hawthorn’s
“Candles” Thompson played
brilliantly. A surprise was Carl-
ton’s three-point win over
Essendon (9.15-8.18), the Blues’
first success this season. Carlton
showed against 'Scray the previ-
ous week that it was coming
good, while no doubt Coleman’s
absence from the Essendon line-
up helped.
In the other battles Colling-
wood (14.17) overwhelmed
South Melbourne (6.13), and is
now the unbeaten leader ; North
suffered its first defeat, at the
hands of Footscray (11.7-5.5);
Melbourne (14.13) had no
trouble with Richmond (10.7),
and St. Kilda and Fitzroy fought
out an 11.10-10.16 draw, with
Fitzroy equalising after being
down 30 points at three-quarter
time.
* * *
“Kay”: The four-minute mile
was not the only “impossible”
athletic feat lately performed.
Two days after Bannister’s run
American shot-put champ Parry
O’Brien three times hurled the
161 b. metal ball the supposedly-
unattainable* distance of 60ft.
Australia’s resident shot-put
record, made by Peter Hanlin
(N.S.W.) at the Australian
championships last February, is
a mere 48ft. s^in.


i mm
WL
yf.
m
m
<r
m
m
m
m
fJrtiL
m
/
i
YOUR
TAI LOR
TP SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
CVusabcc
-(flotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
Are you sharing
in this
£32,000,000
Wool Cheque?
m a
m
In New South Wales, 134 registered
Merino Studs are using—and have used—
substantial amounts of Haddon Rig Blood.
According to the “Merino Stud Stock
Register,” this enterprising group sold
32.000 rams for breeding purposes in 1952.
Although the latest figure available, this
total is unusually low, owing to losses
following excessive rainfall in 1951-52.
Assuming that the average ram sires 40
lambs a year, it can he said that 1,280,000
lambs carry a percentage of Haddon Rig
Blood each year. Given that a sheep’s life
is five years, New South Wales runs
6.400.000 sheep influenced by Haddon Rig
Blood.
Based on current values, these sheep
should cut wool worth £32,000,000. This
estimate is quite conservative; sales of
rams would be 25 °fo higher in a year
unaffected by abnormal rains. Nor does
this £32,000,000 annual return include the
progeny of 11,400 rams sold by 24 leading
Queensland Merino Studs using Haddon
Rig 8100d —at least half the sales made in
that State in 1952.
The more you invest in Haddon Rig Blood,
the greater your gain will be in future
years.
Haddon Rig will send a particularly hig
and attractive team to Sydney Ram Sales.
For the first time, 60 two-tooth selected
Stud Ewes will be offered.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN, N.S.W. - - TELEPHONE: Warren 74
HR2-54
„ _ , ,
the Snowy for Sydney, and the
Department of Public Works
carried out surveys. In 1937 the
Mea was revived and investi-
gated, but nothing came of it.
But the last two reports by the
technical committee (represent-
ing N. S. Wales, Victoria and
the Commonwealth) stated that
the catchment was much greater
than had been believed. That
made all the difference. The
year the final report was pre-
sented the Snowy Mountains
Authority was created
Not long before, just after the
war, I was talking to Alec Mair,
then member for Albury, a
former Premier of N.S.W, and
a farmer. He was, I think.
as well informed on catchments
and so on as anyone at that time
aad h f h T
could be done about the Snowy.
There wasn't enough snow
new°’c™n”y n when P 'tot scheme
inc r rS!lily ye oid at The mTunS
tup
were high ran 8 are
Himalayas were pup .
worn, now, to stumps of their
former stature-at Kosciusko,
the highest point a mere 7300-
odd feet; some 5000 ft. over a
large portion of the area. High
plains, really, on top, with soil
in some places going down as
far as 200 ft.; not agricultural
soil, this, but a sort of mi -pom,
a working diagram or e rea -
mg-down of the moun ams. ,
of course, that is t e y
mtient "disinLratmn ’of rock!
pattent disintegration o
by wind and water and by t
chemical action of plants and
other organisms.
There are dramatic changes
in temperature. At Guthega
are approximately .80
cycles of freezmg and thawmg
during an average winter, and
these lye, es oC eu r mostly wnto
cycle contributes to the decom-
PtTtTsoon
There is, naturally, an expan-
sion of water absorbed by the
concrete on freezing, a contrac-
tion on thawing. In countries
where freezing occurs materials
usually stay frozen for- weeks
and months —in Canada and in
northern Europe. Provided
good concrete was used this did
little damage. But with the
unheard-of freeze-thaw cycles on
the Snowy it was necessary to
experiment with materials to
find an answer.
Now, before they use a con-
crete, it has to stand three freeze-
thaw cycles daily —a total of a
thousand cycles. The average
first-class concrete used in dam-
construction wouldn’t stand a
hundred cycles. The average
engineer, in building a dam, has
to worry mainly about the
tensile-strength of concrete ; here
they have to worry about that,
too, but mainly about resistance
to the freeze-thaw cycle.
That’s one example. There
are others —such as the odd be-
havior of basalt in the Upper
Tumut region. They had in-
tended to use this notoriously-
hard rock as an aggregate of
concrete. Then they discovered
that perfectly sound boulders,
exposed to the air, began to die ;
first little grey spots; then
gravel; then grit. A search of
all the English-language scientific
literature on the general subject
revealed no reference to any-
thing of the kind having been
observed before; but they did
come across a reference in
German.
They have come across all
sorts of curious things up there
in the way of plant- and animal-
life ; have catalogued a wide
variety of unrecorded types. Be-
cause not even the old stock-
men and miners went through
this country as thoroughly as
some of the Snowy teams do as
a matter of routine: the hydro-
graphic sections, for instance, a
couple of men, usually, always
on the move, measuring the flow
of rivers.
I met a couple of them above
the Snowy coffer-dam, up to the
waist in icy water (they wore
waders), a Pole and his Aus-
tralian offsider. You could see
they enjoyed it—the independ-
ence, perhaps, the open life of
action, the sense of personal
responsibility. Still, even through
waders, the waters of the Snowy
can be cold. The snow-clouds
hid the range, and there was a
little bleak sunshine glancing
from the rocky outcrops of the
inclining mountain-sides, with
their queer mossy growths and
glacierlike scars.
In the Upper Tumut Valley
the other day, a Norwegian dia-
mond-drill engineer struck a two-
foot seam of coal —how deep it
is isn’t known —just another of
those things that turn up on this
roof of surprises.
Rivers have always exercised
a pull on man’s imagination;
which is natural enough, con-
sidering their historical influence
on man’s crops, his herds, his
existence, on lives all the way
down the curving course of the
Murray and the Murrumbidgee,
They can spread benevolence or
destruction all the way down
from their sources.
Where these are, most people
have no very clear idea. As
(Continued on next page)


Public Notice
I, TEODORA PENOVIOH, of Jugoslav
nationality, born at Zagreb, Jugoslavia,
resident 22 months in Australia, now re-
siding at Waratah Street, Mona Vale,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
WILL JAMES HALL LIVINGSTON, who
migrated to Australia from Canada about
1910, or any children, descendants, or
any person aware of their whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Manager, PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE. Gore,
New Zealand?
WILL JIM (or JAMES) WHITE and his
brother WILLIE (or WILLIAM) WHITE,
or their children, communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Albert
Street, Auckland, New Zealand, re the
estate of their brother PERCIVAL OLIVE
WHITE, who died at Henderson, New
Zealand, on Bth December, 1953, and was
a son of MARY JANE WHITE and brother
of MARY (or MAUD) WHITE? Friends
of the persons advertised for are re-
quested to bring this advertisement to
their notice.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
: ■■
-
L
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE TRUTH ABOUT
"McCARTHYISM"
Dr. Daniel A. Poling, world presi-
dent of the Christian Endeavour
Union, has summarised American
patriots’ view of Senator Joseph
McCarthy as follows: —
“Senator McCarthy is a symbol.
He is a symbol of dynamic defence.
More, he is America’s symbol of de-
fence that must become an offensive
all along the line.”
The current issue of the League of
Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
DIGEST contains an exposure ot
the Communist-inspired world-wide
smear campaign being conducted
against Senator McCarthy. This ex-
posure should be studied by all
those Australians who desire to
understand how the Communist con-
spiracy operates to destroy those
who attack it effectively.
Every issue of - THE INTELLI-
GENCE DIGEST contains factual
material for the benefit of Austra-
lian patriots. By private subscrip-
tion only. £2/2/- per annum.
Single issues 4/- each.
The Victorian League of Bights,
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
ad
COVENTRY (UMAX
Industrial Engine Unit
4 cylinder petrol engine, rated
8 H.P., develops max. approx.
20 H.P. Water cooled with
radiator and fan. Impulse mag-
neto, precision governor.
Complete with tools and f|OA
spares * I
Trade inquiries invited.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Mlssenden Boad, Newtown,
Sydney. LA 3597.
For relief from
GDUTs RHEUMATISM^M
ns
its.
SiliiStS
iniHih-
llimi
hr
MJJJStef
jsg?
llL'S'Jf/
W/',
M'l
VJa
Ts SOMETHING
.out of THE BOX
It is the only treatment of It*
kind available in Australia—the
only treatment containing COL-
CHICUM. GUIACOL and
APIUM in a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints.
For mild attacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
ment. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensationall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL. 17/6 LARGE. 30/-.
Or by mail from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Ltd., 21
Street, Sydney,
David Campbell said, in two
strong lines:
The Murray’s source is in
the mind
And at a word it flows.
There is really a nest of rivers,
up there on the roof of Australia.
No wonder they beckoned to
men’s minds—the Murray, and
the Murrumbidgee, the Snowy,
the Tumut. And, when you
really get into the mountains,
there is a surprising pattern of
little streams, winding and
returning and intertwining.
The Kaiser people will make
the 14-mile Adaminaby-Tumut
tunnel, the Tumut Pond Dam,
and the TI pressure-tunnel. But
the tunnel will go under Beacon
Hill, and here the basalt caps, it
has been discovered, will distort
the gravitational field in a
rather bizarre way. So some
very special and complex calcu-
lation has to be done (or, per-
haps, has already been done) to
discover precisely what happens
to the water (gravitationally-
speaking) when it is pouring
through the completed tunnel.
Amazing things happen when
masses of water are forced
through long cylinders retained
by heterogeneous parts of the
earth’s substance. All sorts of
stresses and strains, air-bubbles
and the like, and peculiar prob-
lems of maintenance ; even with-
out a local Venus-like gravita-
tional system.
Take, for instance, the TI
pressure-tunnel (in the Kaiser
contract) where it joins the TI
power-station (the contract for
which recently went to a group
of French contractors, for
£3,895,000). The water from
the tunnel outlet will be dropped
vertically 1100 ft. to the power-
station, which will be an under-
ground one, roughly equal in
capacity to Bunnerong in Syd-
ney or Yallourn in Victoria. The
power-station (there aren’t a
great many in the world, inci-
dentally ; mostly in the Scandi-
navian countries) will be about
100 ft. below the river-level at
this point. Good ; but have you
ever tried pouring water down
the narrow neck of a bottle?
Well, try pouring it down a neck
1100 ft. long.
This, I would have thought,
would be quite a problem. No,
a young Swedish engineer said,
that was easy. A more difficult
problem, he insisted, was main-
tenance.
The key-plan—to divert the
waters of the Snowy into the
Murrumbidgee via the Tumut,
on the one hand (looking at the
map, the right hand), and into
the Upper Murray, directly, by
tunnels—was brilliantly simple.
As was the proposal to make this
water for irrigation first pay its
passage by providing power.
But the several steps, the com-
plex of linked and subordinate
schemes, were less easy to follow.
That is, it was relatively easy
to understand one portion, more
difficult to place it in the whole,
to see it. But visualisation is
necessary, I think, to understand
a scheme of this scale. Seeing it
helped, but was confusing, too,
because we travelled over wind-
ing roads, doubling and turning
through country which was far
from uniform. Five thousand
square miles is a lot of country
to fit into one’s head. And take
in such incidentals as that the
Jindabyne Storage Dam will
cover the town of Jindabyne
and a fertile valley. Cattle,
mostly Herefords, were grazing
on it as we drove past. The dam
will be earth-and-rock fill, about
260 ft. high, and will have a stor-
age of 1,200,000 acre-feet of
water.
The 30-mile tunnel from Jin-
dabyne to the Murray—and
therefore, of course, running
right under the Great Dividing
Range—will actually make the
trip in stages. Stage 1, from
Jindabyne to a power-station,
M 6, which will discharge into a
small dam —Bogong Greek Pond
—22 miles from Jindabyne as
the engineer tunnels. Bogong
Creek is a tributary of the
Murray, lying between the
Geehi River and Swampy Plain
River; that is, west of the
Geehi.
So the tunnel will actually pass
under the Geehi, and will draw
water down, by a shaft, since
the water of the Geehi is at a
higher elevation than the tunnel.
On the Jindabyne side, at
Island Bend, the tunnel will also
pass under a higher elevation of
water, the Snowy. Here, too, a
shaft will draw water down into
the tunnel.
Both of these shafts will have
power-stations (M 3 at Island
Bend and MSL at Geehi) at the
base, to develop power from
the falling water before it passes
into the main tunnel. The drop
from Jindabyne to Swampy Plain
River will be about 2000 ft.
Stage 2 is the tunnel from
Bogong Creek Pond to the
Swampy Plain River, passing
through power-station M 7. The
combined capacity of M 6 and
M 7 will be over 1,000,000 kilo-
watts: more than the capacity
stored in N.S.W.
This part of the scheme is
known as the Snowy-Murray
diversion; and, so far, only
investigatory work has been
done on it. But there are two
other projects which amount to
the same thing. The Upper
Snowy Project will be a similar
utilisation of water and power
in the higher river.
The second is the Guthega
project, where the Norwegians
have recently completed the
tunnel. This project is expected
to produce 60,000 kilowatts this
year.
In the Jindabyne Dam project
the river will be checked by an
earth-and-rock-fill dam, and
water will fill the natural basin
and bank-up the valleys for
miles. The capacity will be 3£
million acre-feet, which is esti-
mated to be equivalent to about
nine times the volume of water
in Sydney Harbor.
From this storage a 14-mile
tunnel will run under the Main
Dividing Range to Tumut Pond.
This 14-mile tunnel—part of
the Kaiser contract —will have
provision for reverse-flow. So in
time of flood the waters of the
Tumut and Tooma can be stored
in the huge Adaminaby Dam,
A concrete-arch dam and
take-off tunnel to T 1 (the under-
ground power-station under con-
tract to the French group) are
the Kaiser contract. The
water will then go through
another power-station, T 2, to
Blowering Dam.
Another project—for power,
but of no importance for irriga-
tion—is the switching of water
from the Murrumbidgee at Tan-
tangara. But much of this is
looking a fair way into the
future.
It has been claimed, on reason-
able ground, that from the
power-defence angle it is an
advantage to have the power-
project so far inland; that 90
per cent, of the generating-power
in N.S.W. is “within a stone’s-
throw” of the coast; that if the
thermal-stations were put out of
action, either by direct damage
or through a shortage of coal,
the Snowy Scheme could carry
base load as well as base peak
load for long periods; and that
the stored energy in Adaminaby
alone will amount to twice the
total of energy used annually in
N.S.W.
This can be broken-down a
little in detail. By the end of
1959, it is estimated, Adaminaby
Dam will begin to produce power
and water ; so it will probably
be some time in the following
year before any considerable
power contribution could be
made, at the best. And by that
time distance from the coast may
be of less importance : relative.
The illustration of the Adamin-
aby storage is dramatic: a little
less so, perhaps, when one sees
the scheme set out in full, and
becomes more inured to astro-
nomical figures. The ultimate
total generating-capacity of the
scheme, for instance, will exceed
the total of all thermal- and
hydroelectric-stations now oper-
ating in Australia.
But these are ultimate calcu-
lations. Figures for Adamin-
aby’s storage, in any particular
year, must be conditioned by the
intake—and this, surely, must be
dependent on rainfall in the pre-
ceding year or years. But, on
the whole, the case is fair
enough—a comment that can be
applied to the Authority’s case
on a number of controversial
matters aired from time to time
in Parliament and in the Press.
As Mr. Hudson, the commis-
sioner, remarked when I inter-
viewed him at Cooma: “We can
be criticised in detail. But I think
anyone who goes into it at all
honestly will agree that, on the
whole, we have done a good
job.”
I agree. There are points of
exception, but on most counts
the scheme can stand on its feet.
Still, political issues could cloud
the whole object of the scheme
and, in certain circumstances,
kill it. Not that I think this is
likely: but it is a possibility.
The Blowering Dam seems a
good example of politico-
financial matters influencing
both general policy and technical
work. In fact, if there is a hold-
up (as, judging by reports, is
very likely) it can mean creating
a gigantic bottleneck in the
whole irrigation project, so far
as the Murrumbidgee is con-
cerned. And irrigation is, after
all, the most important aspect of
the Snowy River scheme.
Meanwhile, any night, just
about, you can look up at the
Authority’s tall grey headquar-
ters building in Cooma and
see the office lights on. Or, if one
or the other is dark, it’s because
its occupier is travelling. Of the
Authority heads, William Hud-
son, the commissioner, and his
notable career are well known.
Thomas Arthur Lang, also a
civil-engineer, was brought from
his job as Queensland Irriga-
tion and Water Supply Com-
missioner in 1949 —that is, at the
beginning—and is young (41 or
42 according to a man who knew
him well) and looks younger, but
with a quiet seriousness, a knack
of getting to the heart of a
matter, a mastery of whatever
he may be talking about which
adds up to a tremendous force
of personality.
The other member, Mr. Meri-
gan, I didn’t meet.
A word about the administra-
tive set-up. It’s split, in the
field, into regions. A regional-
engineer is a sort of Sanders of
the River, an administrator as
well as an engineer. Lincoln B.
Grayson is regional-engineer,
Kosciusko. A glance at two
separate phases of his career
gives a line of the qualities
needed in the job. He was here
during the war —after service as
a divisional engineer during the
Buna campaign—as U.S. Army
engineer-supply officer, Aus-
tralia, with the rank of major.
He was in charge of engineering
work in the Philippines, rank
colonel. As an engineer working
for Bethlehem Steel, he became
interested in some legal aspects
of his work, looked them up,
and graduated in law in 1938.
There has been a good deal
of collaboration with the U.S.
Bureau of Reclamation, Snowy
engineers going to the U.S. for
experience in special phases of
their work. Now five engineers
from the bureau are at Cooma.
A few points raised by the
commissioner seem relevant.
They are:
1. The most important feature
of the scheme is irrigation. This
will release two million acre-feet
each year—on present prices,
enough water to raise food-pro-
duction by £25 million annually.
2. The big rise in the estimates
from 1948 to 1952 can be ex-
plained by (a) general rise in
costs, common to all industries ;
(b) enlargement in scope of the
scheme, which now makes it pos-
sible to offer an increased gene-
ral capacity of one-third million
KW and, what is more import-
ant, to guarantee to States under
any weather conditions 50 per
cent, more capacity.
3. A committee of State en-
gineers and Authority engineers
(Authority men in the minority)
investigated costs. Taking an un-
favorable example and unfavor-
able period—from the present
until the time last generator will
be installed in T 1 and T2—they
found the Authority scheme
would be 7 per cent, cheaper and
31 per cent, cheaper for some-
thing between peak load and
base load.
4. Regarding atomic-power for
industry, it is recognised in U.K.
and America that first installa-
tions will be tremendously ex-
pensive. And there are formid-
able technical difficulties. By
the time cheap atomic-power is
available to industry here the
Snowy Mountains Authority
will have paid off most, if not
ail, of its capital indebtedness.
That’s apart from irrigation—
the real wealth from the Snowy.


Hakims dieselS
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £ I each .. .. .. ... •• •• •• £628,455
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £l each . . . . • . • • • • 300,000
HELD IN RESERVE
1,071,545 Shares of £ I each
1,071,545
2,000,000
£2,000,000
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/. EACH. PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable “Caterpillar”*
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to
secure the greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of
the valuable franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING
(QUEENSLAND) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
ON TRACKS
1904*1954
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria, U.S.A. "Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment for
QUEENSLAND, NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA, PAPUA, NEW GUINEA AND THE SOUTH-
WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois. U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on
tracks is "Caterpillar. 11
# In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far
the highest user preference, as every year more
"Caterpillars" are sold than any similar type.
* Caterpillar is a registered name in U.S.A.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Ordinary
Net Profit. Dividends.
Year ended 31st August, 1951 .. £11,790
Year ended 31st August, 1952 . . £48,779 39.0%
Year ended 31st August, 1953 . . £58,870 12^5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation ot
valuable franchises augurs well for the future development ana
profits of the Company. Intending shareholders have this oppor-
tunity to participate in returns and dividends from the expanded
future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are to
be applied as working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompany-
ing the Prospectus, dated 30th April, 1954, and must be lodged
direct with the Company’s Office. Copies of the full Prospectus
and Application Forms may be obtained upon application to the
Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Deering Limited will be given
absolute priority of allotment of shares applied for not later than
the 15th May, 1954. Any shares not then applied for by such share-
holders will be dealt with as the Directors may determine. The
Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise.
In the event of applications being received for more than 300,000
New Ordinary Shares, the Directors reserve the right to allot
additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with the New
Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing
further working capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must
be raised by the issue of shares offered for subscription by this
Prospectus is £20,000, being required solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 57 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W.,
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General
Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W.,
Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney St., Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin
Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES,
F.C.1.5., The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s
Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with ) is published for
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The Prospectus, of which this is an
advertisement is dated 30th April, 1951/, and copies thereof have been filed respectively with the Registrar-General in New South
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western
Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria.
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a printed copy
of the Prospectus.
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M. ON 30TH JUNE. 1954. CON-
SIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED,
PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE
COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
NOTE:—The minimum
subscription having
been received, the
Directors have pro-
ceeded to allotment.
The Secretary,
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.,
The Hastings Deering Building,
William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
State


X.
m
VI
©
e
a
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
Even now they are being
developed,
and this
illustration
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance. I
NOIIVIAV
ď
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
I/S3
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Trl-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
«\.CM.- 08
K>H*,!
o*** .k.w'"'*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
NA . ■; Xvxjx -
Any particulars' gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: 6.P.0. Bon J 583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Boi 4058. MELBOURNE • «AO.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 7BBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O. Box BBS. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
H-BOMB DEFENCE
This year’s British White
Paper on Defence dealt at some
length with the problem of pro-
tection against air attack in these
times of fission, fusion and
supersonic speeds. America, too,
with its skyscraper cities and
great industrial concentrations, is
acutely aware of the problem
and, as the “U.S. News and
World Report” sets it out, is
making a four-point approach to
defence against H-bomb attack:
“The basis of this defence is
not 100 per cent, protection
against delivery of the bomb, but
a combination of offensive and
defensive measures designed to
make the risk of attacking the
United States far greater than
the probable results of an
attack.
“Measures involved, in essence,
are;
“An automatic detection-sys-
tem designed to ring the U.S.
with devices to locate low-flying
as well as high-flying bombers or
missiles and to give six-hours’
warning of any attack.
“An all-weather force of fast
jet-interceptors equipped with
rocket-missiles able to knock
down any known bomber, once
located.
“A highly effective guided-
missile network to keep invad-
ing bombers—or invading mis-
siles —away from the bigger
U.S. cities and defence instal-
lations.
“A force of big bombers and
long-range missiles dispersed and
protected from enemy attack
and able to retaliate with H-
bombs on the eneiriy’s own
cities.
“The theory behind this sys-
tem,” the publication elaborates,
“is that the new devices probably
can keep an invading force from
reaching the major U.S. targets,
and can knock down a large
percentage of bombers before
they reach other targets.
“Thus even a successful attack
would be likely to hit only a few
secondary targets at the cost of
an assured H-bomb retaliation
against the enemy’s home cities.
“On this basis, U.S. officials
believe that the planned system,
when fully in effect, is very likely
to stop any H-bomb attack
against the U.S. before it starts
by making it not worth while.
If an attack is launched, the sys-
tem is not designed to guarantee
against all losses, but could keep
enemy bombers away from vital,
heavily-populated areas.
“How effective will such a
system be?
“Means of detecting enemy
bombers long before they reach
U.S. borders and tracking them
until shot down are a major
weakness in present defences and
get big emphasis now by the
planners.
“A series of automatic radar-
stations spotted across the Far
North, from Alaska to Green-
land along a line about 1200
miles from the North Pole, is
being started. This network,
begun at Barter Island, Alaska, is
Nashville “Tennessean "
YAIR?
YAIR!
designed to give six-hours’ warn-
ing of enemy bombers approach-
ing the U.S. from the north. It
will be backed by other radar-
lines being set up in depth across
Canada.
“New, inexpensive, automatic
warning-devices, meanwhile, are
being developed to supplement
this network and to detect low-
flying planes that might escape
conventional radar.
“To cover other approaches to
the U.S., radar picket-ships are
to operate far from U.S. coasts,
They are to be supplemented by
high-flying radar picket-aircraft,
designed to detect enemy planes
at great distances,
“Planners believe that this sys-
tern of detection, when corn-
pleted, will result in a virtually
foolproof network, and one that
will cost only a small fraction of
the 20 billion dollars once esti-
mated for a complete radar-net
in depth.
“Intercepting enemy bombers,
the next step, is to be a two-
phase operation—relying on jet
fighter-planes now and newly-
developed missiles later.
“At this stage, a U.S. intercep-
tion-force of about 75 squadrons
of fast jet-planes is standing by
on constant alert, ready to tangle
with invading bombers on short
notice. This force, moreover,
now is fully equipped with new,
all-weather jet types—F-102’s,
F-86 D’s, F-94 C’s and F-89’s—
all, using 2.75-inch air-to-air mis-
siles. Once detection is made,
they are reported to be more
than a match for jet-bombers, as
well as B-29 types,
“To supplement this force is
an interception-missile now under
development. That missile, the
‘Bomarc’ F-99, is designed to be
launched from the ground and
guided automatically by radar
to knock down an enemy plane
perhaps a hundred miles away.
Operating at several times the
speed of sound, this device also
may be usable against enemy
longe-range missiles containing
atomic warheads.
“Anti-aircraft missiles already
in production, meanwhile, are
being counted on for a last-ditch
defence of the big U.S. cities —
New York, Detroit, Washington,
San Francisco among them. Ten
big U.S. cities already are being
equipped with ‘Nike’ installa-
tions, each designed to protect
an area of 25 to 50 miles in all
directions.
“Given only a few minutes’
warning, these missiles can
blast off and ‘home’ automatic-
ally on attacking bombers. A
hit, ensuring the destruction of
the enemy plane, is reported to
be more than 90 per cent, certain.
“In addition the ‘Bomarc,’
when fully developed, is to de-
fend other cities and military
installations.
“Retaliation, however, remains
the crux of the military de-
fence-plan. Long-range pilot-
less-missiles capable of deliver-
ing the H-bomb at supersonic
speeds are planned for this mis-
sion. Meanwhile, retaliation is
assured by a force of about 40
wings of big U.S. bombers, ready
now to fly massive counter-
attacks on a few hours’ notice
from dozens of alternate bases
at home and overseas.
“It is the build-up of this new
military defence that officials
are counting on strongly to pro-
vide an answer to the H-bomb —
a means of stopping an attack on
the United States before it starts,
by making the risk of certain
retaliation too big for any pro-
bable results on American
targets.”
Egyptian Nationalism
“The complete and uncondi-
tional evacuation of all foreign
troops from Egyptian soil is,”
notes London “Fortnightly,”
“the simple form in which all
Egypt—the 80 per cent, illiterate
and the 20 per cent, literate of
the population—now regard the
Anglo-Egyptian problem. All
recent visitors speak of this
national unanimity. It is very
real. But how has it been
achieved?
“Outside Egypt it is perhaps
less widely realised than it might
be how powerful the Egyptian
broadcasting services have be-
come in Egypt as political
weapons. They are under the
most rigid Government control;
they are in colloquial Arabic ; in
practically every Egyptian cafe
a radio-set is tuned to Cairo
fortissimo all day; and these
cafes are the traditional clubs
of the 80 per cent, of the popu-
lation which is illiterate.
“Broadcasting defeats illiter-
acy, and this excitable majority
hears and believes just what the
Government of the day wants it
to hear and believe. Thus it is
in Egypt to-day there is this blind
unanimity for ‘evacuation.’ For
that is all that Egyptians hear ;
and, spiced with mendacious
anti-British reports —such as the
notorious British-military atroc-
city stories of the winter of 1951-
52—‘evacuation’ is presented to
the illiterate (and to the literate)
Egyptian public as the panacea
for all Egyptian ills.
“British official communiques,
denying this and explaining that,
are naturally excluded from
Egyptian wireless news-bulletins
and, naturally too, the few refer-
ences to an international as well
as an Egyptian national side to
the Canal question are dismissed
as so many more imperialist
manoeuvres. And the outcome
is that, in the present state of
Egyptian public opinion, any
Egyptian Government daring to


For easier.
quicker
shaving!
illette
DISPENSER
aw
1
U
o
X
Z'
a
2
and. ..a place to
hold used blades!
miirnmrnnmmummmi
BLUE
Gillette
blades
A new blade
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected •by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
im
AO T
and it costs you nothing extra
fi
••. you pay only for the blades!
LU
Ul
CO
NEW 10-Blade A/a
DISPENSER ... U'9
10 Blade PACKET ... 3/9
5 Blade PACKET . . . 1/101
20 Blade DISPENSER .. 7/6
'GOOD MORNINGS 1 BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
compromise on anything like
international lines would risk
being howled out of office as a
gang of traitors.
“In fact, by the use and mis-
use of the national broadcasting
services an Egyptian political
monster has been created
which has not only pro-
duced the instability of all
recent Egyptian Governments,
but has also made the prospect
of a successful conclusion of
the present Anglo-Egyptian
negotiations over the Canal very
remote. Public opinion in Egypt
can change—or can be changed ;
but in the present uncertain
political situation in the country,
the Canal problem is, and is
likely to remain, very much in
the doldrums, unless some new
approach can be found.
“Such an approach might well
take three things into account.
First; the present dispute has
become far more an interna-
tional than an Anglo-Egyptian
affair. Secondly; the British gar-
rison in the Canal Zone has be-
come essentially the custodian of
international interests. Thirdly:
these international interests ex-
tend eastwards as well as west-
wards and to-day newly-inde-
pendent Pakistan, India, Ceylon,
Burma and Indonesia, as well as
Australia, New Zealand and
Japan, are commercially quite
as concerned, with Middle East
and Canal security as are
Europe and America.
“These considerations have
all a direct bearing on the one
international issue in Egypt
which no one, even in Egypt,
challenges the international
status of the Canal itself. By
the international Convention of
1888, which governs its opera-
tions, it shall ‘always be free and
open, in time of war as in time
of peace, to every vessel of com-
merce or war, without distinc-
tion of flag.’
“In 1969 the Suez Canal Com-
pany’s concession ends and the
Canal reverts to Egyptian con-
trol. But it will still be interna-
tional and the question of a new
international Convention to con-
trol its operation and protection
in world interests will certainly
come up, and in it, among other
Powers, Pakistan, India, Ceylon,
Burma and Indonesia will be
newly interested. This being so,
it should be possible to antici-
pate 1969 now, and, in the inter-
ests of world-trade and Middle
East and Canal security, remove
the Canal problem from the limi-
tations and frustrations of its
present Anglo-Egyptian setting
and promote it to the inter-
national sphere where it really
belongs.
“Although over a year ago
Egypt rejected a suggestion that
the United States should partici-
pate in the present Middle East
and Canal Defence negotiations,
would she be equally unrespon-
sive to an invitation for similar
purposes but on an international
level which included Pakistan,
India, Ceylon, Burma and Indo-
nesia?”
American Diplomacy
It is not so long since the U.S.
was being criticised for being
too ready to make concessions
in its dealings with Russia. Now,
as London “Economist” sees it,
Uncle Sam is, if anything, a
shade too hard in his dealings.
“It is true,” “The Economist”
comments, “that the traditional
method of bargaining between
two English gentlemen is for
each to try to put the other
under some moral obligation,
before the bargaining,proper be-
gins, by being nice to him. If
you can ‘create a favorable
atmosphere’ by giving your
opponent something at the start,
then he will feel in honor bound
to make a concession to you.
“The more practical wing of
the Labor party could tell the
intellectuals that things do not
work out like that, even in, Eng-
lish labor negotiations. Still less
is this a rewarding tactic when
dealing with international Com-
munists, who are apt to take the
preliminary gesture of friendly
intentions as a confession of
weakness. Over and over again,
experience has proved that
strength and firmness in dealing
with them, so far from giving
offence, is the way to get results.
“The Communists are nothing
if not realists. They will go into
a huff if they think they can
gain anything by it. But they
will not be driven into a huff
by any joint declaration that the
British and American Govern-
ments may make. On the con-
trary, they will assess very care-
fully, and take into their calcu-
lations, every piece of evidence
that is presented to them on the
state of mind of their oppon-
ents. The more resolute we are,
the more likely are they to make,
after prolonged and stiff bar-
gaining, the concessions on
which a settlement can be
based.
“The Americans, for all the
occasional impatience of their
diplomacy, deserve the fullest
credit for having seen this
clearly. It is a legitimate com-
plaint against American policy,
especially in the Far East, that
it is apparently unwilling to
make any concessions at all, even
for full value received; it will
not consider recognition or a
loosening of trade restrictions
even as bargaining weapons.
“But if it is wrong of the
Americans to refuse to give
something for something, they
are magnificently right in insist-
ing that they will give nothing
for nothing.”
West German Army?
As a “U.S. News and World
Report” correspondent in
Germany sees it, “everybody
talks about German rearmament,
but nobody is doing anything
about it—that, at least, is the
feeling among many West
Germans”:
“For months on end Germans
have been hearing that, eventu-
ally, the U.S. wants 12 German
divisions in the defence-line of
Western Europe. Charts have
been drawn-up to show how
quickly these divisions can be
assembled and equipped, once the
starting-signal is given. A sort
of informal ‘Defence Ministry’
is set-up in Bonn to get ready
for the day when a new Army is
born.
“But, when you come right
down to it, preparations for
rearmament are getting nowhere.
Bonn’s miniature Defence De-
partment is plagued by frustra-
tions, and employees complain
that nothing ever gets out of the
planning stage.
“Meanwhile, U.S. equipment
sufficient to arm three German
divisions is stockpiled in the
country. Nobody is entitled to
take over the American arms.
West Germany’s border police —
the closest thing to a military
organisation in the country —
would like to get part of the
U.S. supplies for training pur-
poses, but even that is blocked
by Allied decisions.
“The border police is a force
of 10,000 men. A decision to
double it was agreed to ‘in prin-
ciple’ in 1950, but the Germans
say objections made by the
French and British have blocked
the expansion—with the result
that the corps is too small to be
used as a training-centre for
officers who might one day stalf
new German divisions.
“About 80 per cent, of the
men now on duty have served
three years in the border police.
Many of them would make good
non-commissioned officers for
regular German divisions. The
existing officer-training school
could be expanded to provide
lieutenants for a new Army.
Moreover, the border-police
headquarters has an up-to-date
backlog of candidates who could
be called-up to keep an officer-
training programme going. But
no steps are being taken to make
use of it.
“The Defence Department had
a similar list of applicants for
officer-training to be used once
a German Army is legalised.
The list, however, is three years
old and has not been kept up to
date. Nobody knows whether
the applicants are physically or
politically fit, or even if they are
still available. Undoubtedly
some of them have left the
country.
“Against this almost complete
bog-down of West German
defence preparations is the fact
that the Communists are con-
stantly building up the military
strength of East Germany. A
sizeable East German force has
been in existence a long time,
and it is still growing,
“Intelligence information fixes
the present military strength of
the East Germans at 110,000
men in the Army, 7000 in the Air
Force and 9000 in the Navy.
Officer-training schools are in
operation throughout the Soviet
zone and some of the advanced
schools for combat-training are
equipped with modern Russian
tanks, armored vehicles and other
weapons.
“Some West Germans who
know what is going on in the
Soviet zone say that the present
armored divisions of the Western
Allies are inferior to their East
German counterparts. Soviet-
recruited divisions, they say, are
so equipped that they have all
their men in armored units.
“West German military
experts ponder this fighting force
in the East and the plight of their
own rearmament. So far, they
say, all they can see is a paper
army of 12 divisions that is likely
to be out of date even before it
comes into being.”
Various Voices
M. Schuman: “There can be
no Europe without Britain
today, because without Britain
there would have been no Europe
for the past -15 years.”
Lord Layton: “We [the
British] should never let it bte
suggested to the French that our
presence on the Continent is to
confer some sort of benefit on
France. That would simply be
rubbish. We are serving our
own interests by keeping our
forces over there, and as it
happens this coincides with the
interests of France.”
U.S. Vice-President Nixon:
“A potential aggressor does not
move unless he believes he can
win, that he will gain more by
his aggression than he will lose.
The only potential aggressors in
the world today are the Soviet
Union and its satellites. They
know that in the event that they
move we will strike back. They
know, therefore, that even if
they are able to create great
destruction against us, the end
result may be national suicide
for them.”
Anthony Eden: “To spurn
the German will to work with
the West would be short-sighted
folly. Germany exists, and the
industrious German people are
a factor in Europe with which
we have to deal. If you give
hope no chance you make
disaster certain.”
Herr Hoffman (Saar Prime
Minister ); “I am convinced that
the solution of the Saar ques-
tion will remove the one out-
standing obstacle to the achieve-
ment of lasting Franco-German
understanding. That is, after
all, the key to the attainment of
a united European community.”


'V, .: 5 -m
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, U h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
Price Standard Machine FOR/FOB Capital Cities,
£126/16/6.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
FARMERS' BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalnm
'guillotined 1
Rotary Hoe
Savobench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.. Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
Launceston 2645.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
Lawnmower
>■*
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, Spi’ay-painting, etc. FURROWER,
TRAILER. DUSTER, DISC HARROWS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PIGS FOR PROFIT
A LTHOUGH in former times
pigs were kept mainly as
scavengers, and although they
may make attractive pets, in
Australia the basic proposition
is to have them turn (relatively)
cheap foodstuffs into (relatively)
dear pigmeats, as quickly and
efficiently as possible. The main
idea, in fact, is to make money.
But this isn’t easy, popular
opinion notwithstanding. When
prices for pigs go up or down
they generally reflect pretty
accurately the prices of food-
stuffs. Again, some farmers
never really cost what goes into
their porkers and baconers, in
labor, capital-expenditure, or
foodstuffs and material which
could, perhaps, have been more
efficiently used. If the stuff’s
there anyway, it doesn’t matter
very much. And, in fact/ the
soundest—perhaps the only
economic—way of feeding pigs
is to raise them as a sideline to
a dairy, or a cereal-crop, or both.
But when a man says proudly
after a sale, “1 made such-and-
such out of those pigs,”: he
mostly counts the margin be-
tween purchase- and selling-
price, not the other factors nor-
mally taken into account.
True, smart dealers sometimes
make big profits—but smart
dealers often do in any com-
modity. I met a buyer who
claimed he had made £l2OO at a
Forbes (N.S.W.) sale through the
incidence of heavy rain which
kept other big buyers away and
gave him a virtual monopoly,
with a heavy yarding. But this
can hardly be taken as indicating
a general level of prosperity
among growers. And if you rely
in part, or largely, on bought
feed you can fall in pretty
dramatically. Having bought,
say, 100 growers and nicely cal-
culated your margin of profit
(allowing for a percentage of
losses), on the basis of so many
bags of wheat, wheat can go up
and porkers—just when they are
ready to sell —can go down.
Prices may even-out later, but it
may not pay to hang on.
The remedy, then, might seem
to be to grow and use your own
feed: but is it? Taking every-
thing into consideration, it may
be a better proposition to sell
your grain, bale your lucerne,
and so on.
Moreover, pigs play the devil
with fences ; they need a lot of
water; they are delicate, and
subject to all sorts of diseases
for which the prognosis is hope-
less ; and they can’t stand ex-
tremes of heat and cold. They
just can’t be left to themselves:
the question arises—-is all this
care and labor and general man-
agement worth while, or could
it be more usefully employed
elsewhere?
The answer varies with the
individual. There is money in
pigs, but, like most things, it’s
a matter of careful management,
hard work and some knowledge
of the fundamentals. On pig-
raising in Australia there are, in
the main, two main influences:
the influence of the man who
thinks anything will do, rigs-up
some sort of a shelter of old iron
and timber, and feeds his pigs
offal; a heritage of the pig’s
role as a scavenger. His pigs
never do well, he loses some
from broken glass in the hotel-
refuse he picks up—and doesn’t
trouble to boil—and more from
disease. His pigs are a menace
to yours if you are silly enough
to buy any—no matter how
cheap—and can even infect pigs
in the same saleyard. Don’t let
them come on your place, even if
you make an enemy —as you can
do if you refuse a neighbor the
use of your boar.
The other influence is that
exerted by officers of the State
Departments of Agriculture,
Agricultural Colleges and the
like. It is, on the whole, good.
But in reading the numerous
pamphlets turned out it is well
to keep in mind that what the
expert is discussing, most often,
is an ideal of housing, watering-
facilities, etc.
An Agricultural College, Ex-
periment Farm or Agricultural
High School is primarily a place
of instruction and/or experi-
ment, and to house stud herds
one naturally expects everything
that opens and shuts. There is
not any reckless expenditure of
money in such places, as a matter
of fact, but costs do not have the
same significance as they have
for the individual farmer. Par-
ticularly capital-expenditure.
What may be a cautious in-
vestment for an institution turn-
ing out thousands of graduates
could be reckless extravagance
for a man in a small way. And,
even then, they can make mis-
takes. At Yanco Agricultural
High School (N.S.W.) for years
the piggeries had elaborate
troughs with swinging lids which
seemed ingenious when they
first came out, but were hard to
keep clean, and were inferior to
the open trough. Then, again,
there is labor; such places have
sources not available to the
farmer.
Regarding feeding, nowadays,
the departmental expert is more
realistic. He generally takes
costs into account pretty
thoroughly and his basic assump-
tion that poor feeding is un-
economic is unassailable. Even
so, what is often overlooked is
the availability of supplies. What
holds good in one part of a State
is untrue in another. Meat-meal,
for instance, is difficult to get in
many places inland, and when
you do get it it is often of poor
quality.
In general, a middle course
should be steered, examining each
new idea critically, and, when
satisfied, applying it in the light
of one’s own experience. The
general principles advocated by
departmental experts are mostly
sound. In feeding, for instance,
it pays J&> know what proteins,
minerals, etc., are needed. It isn’t
hard to grasp the essence of the
“meal-unit” system—that 41b.
of potatoes, 101 b. of mangels,
one gallon of separated milk or
81b. of carrots have the same
fattening-value for pigs as
11b. of barley-meal or one
meal-unit. A rough combina-
tion of both is given in the fol-
lowing brief table—that is, pro-
tein-rich foods are listed with
their meal-unit values:
Pounds
Deficient per
in meal-
protein unit
Pumpkins 12
Swedes 9
Molasses 5
Potatoes 4
(Feed above with meat-meal or
skim-milk)
Low in
protein
Pollard .. \\
Bran H
Barley .. .. .. .. 1
Wheat .. .. .. .. 1
Oats ~ .. .. .. .. 1
Maize 1
(Feed as supplements to skim-
milk ; or with meat-meal, as
supplements to roots.)
Rich in
Protein
Skim-milk 10
Peas .. .. 1
Linseed-meal 1
Meat-and-bone-meal .. 1
Pure meat-meal .. .. |
Liver-meal .. .. .. |
(Feed with roots, or other pro-
tein-deficient foods.)
This is a guide; no more. Pigs,
like owners, are individuals.
Though all pigs are “getting the
same diet” the ones handiest and
those that take the eye of the
owner usually do best. Ability
to spot trouble early, note when
an animal is going off his tucker,
is important under any system.
The above method has one
defect. It doesn’t take into
account the bulkiness of foods.
The stomach of a pig is limited,
so that, while it can live and
grow on a diet of roots if it can
get enough of them, the great
bulk of these materials make
this practically impossible. If a
1001 b. pig needs four meal-units
daily for adequate growth, you
wouldn’t feed it 401 b. of man-
gels, but, say, 201 b., making-up
the other two meal-units with
some more-concentrated food-
stuff.
A word about antibiotics. In
the U.S.A. use of antibiotics —
penicillin, aureomycin, terramy-
cin—has increased growth-rate
by about 15 per cent.; saving in
feed-bill has been estimated at
about 5 per cent, in pigs. Under
British conditions increases have
been less spectacular. In Aus-
tralia experiments are going on
—in N.S.W., for instance, the
Department of Agriculture is
sponsoring trials on about 12
farms.
The antibiotics do not replace
any constituents of feed —they
merely improve utilisation of
food by young animals. Quanti-
ties used are minute —something
like 0.5 per cent, to the ton of
feed. Some of the most spec-
tacular results have been with
runts, usually a dead-loss. Runts
given terramycin at the rate of
51b. to a million pounds of feed
weighed 291 b. at 42 days of age.
There is no advantage in feeding
antibiotics to pigs over 1201 b.
weight, as they get over-fat.
All the same, results have not
been uniformly good and much
remains to be learned. There is
no doubt that certain beneficient
bacteria could be destroyed by
antibiotics, although some obser-
vers claim that amounts fed are
so small they can’t do much
harm. Stock seem to be health-
ier, although the chemistry of
the whole business is not yet
clear. Costs must be carefully
watched in feeding antibiotics,
as in everything else.
J . F.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
Long-range Forecast
By Inigo Jones
Indications are that, after
the May rains, this year is to
be mainly below average as
regards rain, but there will be
reliefs in August and October
and rains will remain below
normal until March, 1955. It
will then rain fairly well, but
from July till the end of the
year it will again be very dry,
though from pecember there
will be a general improvement,
with 1956 a better season.
For 1957 and 1958 indica-
tions are that they will be very
good years, with abundant
rains till the end of winter,
when it will again become dry,
lasting through 1959 and into
1960, when there should be a
repetition of the wet period
of the early ’nineties.
Cyclone Warnings
“Mugga Way”: Plans for im-
provement to cyclone-warning
services along the Queensland
and northern N.S.W. coasts will
be welcomed by the populations
of those areas. It is proposed
to instal meteorological radar-
equipment at Amberley and
Townsville, and possibly at
Rockhampton. Brisbane will
continue to be the principal
cyclone-warning office, and there
is talk of emergency radio-
channels to be used when
normal communications are
interrupted by storms.
Another possibility is the use
of R.A.A.F. reconnaissance
flights by suitably-equipped air-
craft over eastern-ocean areas,
when necessary, during the
cyclone season. Similar flights
by the U.S. Air Force and
Weather Bureau off the Florida
coast have paid good dividends;
surprising they haven’t been
used more here.
She-oaks
“J.C.”: She-oaks are good all-
rounders ; fuel is said by some
to be better than gidgee, they
are useful as fodder reserves and
as soil - binders, and well -
developed specimens please the
eye.
She-oak foliage makes one of
the best mulches for conserving
moisture around young trees. In
Southern Florida, where avenues
of she-oaks have been planted
as “Australian pines,” market-
gardeners purchase the fallen
“needles” for use as mulch on
their farms.
The river-oak ( Casuarina
cunninghamiana ) is rated so
valuable for so many purposes
that it has been placed on our
list of protected plants. It is
doing well in many parts of
N.S.W., is being extensively cul-
tivated by the Zinc Corporation
at Broken Hill, where trees are
not easy to grow, and given
good soil and waterings at
Dubbo Forestry Nurseries it
advanced at the rapid pace of
10ft. in two years.
South African experience is
that river-oak can take moder-
ately-hard drought conditions in
the drier soils. Its wide-spread-
ing root-system makes it an
excellent protector of river- and
creek-banks where erosion is
likely. Stock love the young
seedlings—hence the need for
protection in the early stages.
Foliage of the drooping she-
oak ( Casuarina stricta) possibly
provides the highest percentage
of nourishment of all this tree
tribe, enabling stock to live on
it for fairly long periods. All
sorts of stock are fond of it,
and it stands lopping well.
One of the best-known of the
far-west N.S.W. fodder-trees is
belah ( Casuarina lepidophloia).
As the foliage is astringent, it
should be mixed with some
succulent feed.
While stock will eat anything
in drought, the needles of the
bull-oak ( Casuarina luehmanii )
are coarse and tough ; it’s the
least valuable of the clan.
All she-oaks are easily propa-
gated from seed, but the best
regeneration practice is to fence-
off some mature trees and move
the seedlings to the new site
while still very young. This job
should be done in damp weather
and each seedling lifted out with
a ball of soil around the roots.
Horse-mange
“Myrrhee”: The cause of
horse-mange is a mite which
attacks horses only. Truly
parasitic, completing the life-
cycle on the host, it chiefly
infests the lower parts of the
legs (particularly of “feathered”
horses), tail and abdomen.


tific ADVANCE
S
A
new
e
ICI
INCORPORATED IN
LIQUID “PHENOVIS”
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINi
rmulation of extremely fine particles
WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO THE 4th ANNUAL REPORT OF C.5.1.R.0.
16. Internal Parasites.
(a) Studies on Anthelmintics . — (i) Phenothiazine.
—lt was mentioned last year that very finely ground
phenothiazine appeared to be more effective than com-
mercial grades of the drug. Trials carried out during
the year have shown clearly that large particle size
greatly detracts from efficiency. A sample in which
98 per cent, of the particles ranged from 46 to 76
microns in diameter was of such low efficiency that a
dose of 20 g. left large residual infections with
Haemonchus contortus, whereas 10 g. is usually highly
effective against this parasite; a finely ground sample,
in which 99 per cent of the particles were 10 microns
or less in diameter was highly efficient, not only against
11. contortus but also against less susceptible worm
parasites such as Trichostrongylus spp. (black-scoUr
worms) and Oesophagostomum columhianum
worms). It
commej
Release of Liquid
‘Phenovis’ has been
delayed pending the
results of exhaustive
tests see extract.
These latest scientific
developments have
been incorporated in
the new Liquid ‘Pheno-
vis‘—the most efficient
worm drench for re-
moving internal para-
sites in sheep.
LIQUID PHEHOVIS’
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
c
«?HE. 31X.3474*
Solved!
EVERY SOIL PREPARATION PROBLEM
-WITH THE NEW IMPROVED
HOWARD
trailing rotary hoe
mm
•.
SJgji K» «P ;;:•.
llli
IMi
i
WITH THE NEW
Long hitch!
Four sizes available to en-
sure a perfect “marriage”
between the Howard Trailing
Rotary Hoe and practically
every type of tractor!
Conversion kits available
for owners who wish to
change their present trailing
rotary hoe to an improved
“long hitch!' model. Price,
m/u/..
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LTD., Northmead, N.S.W.
Every farmer knows the value of the Howard
Trailing Rotary Hoe in handling stubble,
cultivating, turning in weeds and cover crops,
renovating pasture land and preparing the
soil ready for sowing! Now, with the new “long
hitch,” the Howard Trailing Rotary Hoe offers
even greater manoeuvrability . . . steadier
operation . . . and reduced strain on the trac-
tor itself!
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LTD.,
Windsor Road, Northmead, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of Q. the new extended
hitches available foT use with HOWARD Trailing
Rotary Hoes □ the HOWARD Seeder Attachment.
NAME
ADDRESS i
CHIEF CROP.
ACREAGE
TYPE OF SOIL
Hvm
Pointers to infestation are stamp-
ing of the hooves and rubbing
against fixed objects.
To treat, clip the legs, scrub
with warm, soapy water, and dip
in a lime-sulphur wash for five
to 10 minutes. Also work the
dip well into the hair of the
abdomen and into the tail,
especially around the butt. Treat
harness, rugs and grooming-tools
with the dip, too, drying them
in direct sunlight. Wash all
woodwork in the stable with the
dip and flush the floors.
To catch mites that hatch after
the first treatment, repeat the
routine in 10 days and, in bad
infestations, a third time after a
similar period.
Bloat
“Mr.”: Bloat is common in
Victoria where lush growth has
followed the early-autumn break.
In mild cases knead the swollen
belly with the fist and forcibly
exercise the beast. Wooden gag
tied across the mouth aids escape
of gases.
If this fails, drench with any
one of the following; Sodium
hyposulphite 2oz. to soz. in 1
pint water ; or 2 drams formalin
in 1 pint water; or 2oz. pure
turpentine with 15 to 20 drops
of oil of peppermint in 1 pint
raw linseed-oil.
In advanced cases where
prompt action is called for, the
trocar and cannula offers the
best chance of a cure. Clip hair
over highest point on the dis-
tended left flank, dab the site
with iodine, and make the
incision with a firm forward and
downward punching movement,
using sufficient force to penetrate
at one operation the abdominal
wall and the wall of the paunch
Hold cannula firmly in position
and withdraw the trocar. If food
blocks the cannula reinsert the
trocar in the tube.
Very often, a few simple pre-
cautions will help to prevent the
trouble. Keep stock off lush,
water-saturated, cold pastures
until they’ve had a feed of dry
chaff or hay. With calves the
trouble is often caused by them
not getting a fill of milk in the
mornings, and making it up with
dew-soaked grass. Doesn’t apply
so much to dairyfarms as to
places where cows are milked
for the house, once a day, and
calves are shut-up the night
before. Come morning, the little
fellows are mighty hungry. So
see they get their fair whack.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: If bees are
used for pollination of an
orchard it’s a good idea to train
them; otherwise they may stray
to adjacent floral stands. Train-
ing consists of confining the
bees to the hive for a period
and feeding them a sugar-in-
water syrup in which samples of
the flowers to be pollinated are
soaked for some hours. After
two or three feeds the bees are
released in the crop and will
tend to seek the flowers whose
scent was in the syrup.
“A.F.”: Method used by Vic-
torian Department of Railways
to waterproof tarpaulins seems
as efficient as any; Mixture of
double-boiled linseed-oil (two
parts), raw linseed-oil (one
part) and good vegetable-black
(91b. to 40gal. of oil). A
dressing-machine is used, tarp.
being passed through rollers
after it is dipped in mixture. Two
coats ; a drying of 14 days after
first, seven days after second.
After the first coat, good idea
to spread tarp. in the barn, fully
extended; add second coat in
that position.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Queen, Parliament and People
Ballarat citizens, led by a Mrs. L.
Quinlan, launched a petition to the
Queen against Victoria’s Minister for
Agriculture, Mr. Stoneham, who directed
that they shall only use pasteurised milk.
Ballarat housewives asserted that it is
their constitutional right to exercise free-
dom of choice in the matter.
Apart from the merits or demerits of
pasteurisation, the petition raises one of
the most important issues of our time —
i.e., just what is the true relationship of
the Queen, and her Governors, to her
Ministers of State, her Parliaments and
her people?
Victoria’s Mr. Justice Dean, in
“Speaker’s Notes” which he recently pre-
pared for “The Call,” asserted that the
Queen had, in actual fact, been politically
stripped of all her tremendous legal
powers, whilst theoretically still in pos-
session of same. His Honor averred that
the Queen and her Governors can and
must only do that which is advised by
Cabinet Ministers. If this be judicially
correct, then a current illusion, that the
Queen is only a rubber-stamp in the
hands of the dominant party, is now a
legal reality.
What do the Labor party’s constitu-
tional authorities say about this question?
Dr. Evatt, then a High Court Judge, in his
The King and His Dominion Governors,
wrote that “Surely it is wrong to assume
that the Governor-General for the time
being will always be a mere tool in the
hands of the dominant party?” while Sir
Ivor Jennings, in his Cabinet Government,
pointed out that “There are, however, cer-
tain prerogatives which he [the King] exer-
cises on his own responsibility, and which
may be fitly called ‘personal prerogatives.’
Exactly what they are is by no means
clear; for there is difference of opinion
in regard to several of them.”
The late Professor Harold Laski, in
Parliamentary Government in England,
was emphatic that “The mere fact that
we do not know the limits of the royal
power, that it can remain to be invoked,
on one side or the other, in the twilight
zone of crisis, sufficiently indicates the
difficulties of the position... .There is no
reason to doubt that the prerogative of
the King seems to men both of eminence
and experience in above all a
means of delaying the coming of Social-
ism. ...”
Professor K. H. Bailey, then Dean of
the Law Faculty of Melbourne University
and now Commonwealth Solicitor-
General, in his “Introduction” to Evatt’s
thesis, commented that “One of the dis-
tinctive features of the British Constitu-
tion, as has often been remarked, is the
combination of the democratic principle
that all political authority comes from
the people, and hence that the will of
the people must prevail, with the main-
tenance of a monarchy armed wi(h legal
powers to dismiss Ministers drawn from
among the people’s elected representa-
tives, and even to dissolve the elected
legislature itself.”
In a Brisbane symposium on “The
Powers of the Governor in Queensland,”
Mr. Ross Anderson, M.A. (Oxon.), LL.B.,
Senior Lecturer in Law at Queensland
University, made two interesting admis-
sions. The first was in reply to the ques-
tion: “If a majority of electors, legally
entitled to vote, in an electoral division,
and in a majority of divisions, in Queens-
land, were to petition the Governor to
dissolve Parliament on the ground that it
did not represent the majority will on
any given issue, and if Cabinet advised
the Governor against dissolution and was
supported in that advice by a resolution
of the Parliament, who would the
Governor be legally bound to obey, the
people or the Cabinet and Parliament?”
Mr. Anderson said “The people.” His
second admission was that it was entirely
incorrect to say that the Queen and her
Governors were rubber-stamps in the
hands of the dominant political party.
Evatt, in the aforementioned thesis,
pointed out that “the clearly expressed
will of a majority of the citizens is en-
titled to prevail throughout the particular
constitutional unit to which they belong.”
He thus concurs with the same view
expressed by Professor Bailey.
If a majority of Ballarat citizens sign
the petition it will be of importance to
note if the Victorian Labor party’s Mr.
Stoneham will heed the authority of the
experts of the Labor party and withdraw
his opposition to the wishes of the
Ballarat housewives.
To continue to spread the idea that
the Queen, and her Governors, must only
do what Cabinet advises is to do a very
grave disservice to her Majesty and her
people. The whole point is this: The
Queen, and her Governors, generally
accept Ministerial advice on all matters
and things on the assumption that such
is in accord with the will of the majority
of the people on the matter concerned.
Where, however, such advice can be
demonstrated to be contrary to the clearly
expressed will of the majority, then the
Queen and her Governors are legally
bound to reject Ministerial and Parlia-
mentary directions and bow to the wishes
of the people. Once the people are taught
this fact it won’t be long before we see
the end of the tyranny of Cabinet dic-
tatorship and the return of the control
of Parliament to the electorate, where,
legally, it belongs.—A. A. C. (Q.).
Country Television
The resolution passed by the Country
Women’s Association advocating the de-
lay of television in Australia until such
things as water-conservation have been
carried out is surely based on a false
premise. It assumes that the money
“You’re next, sir!”
rec l mr ed for television will be taken from
sources which might otherwise supply the
sa ™ e funds for the purpose mentioned,
would be just as consistent for any-
one to say that the development of the
9* industry should be restrained so that
the money now being invested could be
used for water-conservation, housing,
telephones, etc.
more senous aspect of the whole
matter is the failure ol the C.W.A. to
recognise in television the means of
destroying the isolation of people living
>" ![ e country thus breaking down one
° f , the ba ™ rs !° f, more fen spread of
the population in this continent.
m operation in rural areas.
TL P T f wO ”T m the , hol f wl * a
f“ dar „ d ° f entertainment information
and f™™}™ u far . lexceeding 1 exceeding
S Steady* theTafe
“‘Std Tn Grif BrhaV wS
the rura| services ided b tel e vision .
, jons have J revolutionised life in
, he G. S, (N.S.W.).
J
New Guinea Labor
When the plywood-mill at Bulolo
(N.G.) is in full operation it will have
about 160 natives among its employees,
mostly assisting European workers. Ter-
ritories Minister Paul Hasluck, who had
promised to investigate the relationship
of native labor to production-costs, has
stated that the estimated average total
cost of employing one unskilled native at
Bulolo in the past had been £lO 12s. lid.
per month, which included 18s. lid. for
wages, £7 7s. lid. for rations and issues,
and 9s. 3d. for medical expenses.
Other costs were for recruiting and
repatriation (£1 Is. lid.), compound
maintenance, supervision, transport and
freight. It was expected that this cost
would increase considerably in the timber-
mill from attempts to build up a more
efficient and stable labor-force.
The management of Commonwealth-
New Guinea Timbers Ltd. estimated the
productivity of native labor at one-eighth
to one-sixth of European labor. Mill
operations were to be mechanised as far
as possible, this being an economic neces-
sity in view of the high cost of labor.
—Myuna (A.C.T.).
“Kuropatkin” Murphy
M. H. Ellis’s references to Joe
Lesina (B. 28/4/’54) recall one of Joe’s
most famous performances —during the
critical session of 1904 when W. S.
(“Kuropatkin”) Murphy saved the
Morgan-Labor coalition from defeat.
The late Archie Meston (“The Sacred
Ibis”) gave Murphy the sobriquet of
“Kuropatkin.” The Russo-Japanese war
was raging at the time and the Japanese
general, Nogi, was furiously attacking
Port Arthur. His assaults were being
repulsed with considerable slaughter and,
meanwhile, the Russian general Kuro-
patkin was advancing to the relief.
Meston seized on the political parallel
and wrote a lively ballad for the
“Courier” describing how “Kuropatkin”
Murphy was advancing from Croydon to
the relief of “Port” Arthur Morgan.
For almost a fortnight, the Morgan
Government and its Labor allies, led by
Kidston and Kerr, fought an heroic stone-
wall debate against the Philp Opposition,
to which several Government members
had deserted. If only Murphy, newly
elected for Croydon, could arrive before
the defenders collapsed from exhaustion,
the Government would be saved from
defeat by a majority of one.
Lesina was the stonewall champion of
the Government. He erupted into the
debate in his usual volcanic style and
spouted continuously for four-and-a-half
hours. That night (June 15) the galleries
were filled to overflowing, crowds
gathered on the stairs and in the lobbies
and a long queue extended from the door
facing Alice-street out into the roadway.
The crowd crushed in upon the Press and
“Hansard” and carried their possies by
storm, cheering and laughing so boister-
ously that the Speaker repeatedly threat-
ened to clear the galleries.
Time after time Lesina reduced the
Opposition to gibbering fury with such
rhetorical alliterative assaults as “this
pitiable pack of picaroons,” “the astound-
ing gang of crank coons” and “these
rodential elements” in the Chamber
without whose help the Government
could not be defeated.
He accused his opponents of spending
when they were in office more than £7OOO
on snapper-fishing and wine-bibbing ex-
cursions in the Government yacht
Lucinda. He related that one day when
he was fishing down the Bay he knew that
the Lucinda was somewhere ahead of
him because scores of empty champagne-
bottles were bobbing up and down in
the water.
David Hay Dalrymple, champion
stonewaller of the Opposition, who
dubbed Lesina the garbage-collector-in-
chief of politics, spoke for four hours
and seven minutes.
Meanwhile, Murphy burned up the
miles between Croydon and Brisbane by
buckboard, special train and steamer. He
was expected to reach Brisbane on June
22 and, on the night of June 21, Morgan
announced that the division on the want-
of-confidence motion would be taken at
eight the following evening.
When the House reassembled on the
morning of June 22, “Kuropatkin” made
his appearance at the bar of the Chamber
amid thunderous cheers from the be-
leaguered Government cohorts. The
dramatic battle ended r&it might. The
densely-packed public galleries had stand-
ing-room only by seven o’clock, and at
10.34 the division-bells rang for the
momentous vote. When it was announced
(ayes 36, noes 35) there were wild scenes
of rejoicing.
For days afterwards Murphy was
acclaimed a public hero and was mobbed
by enthusiastic Morganites in the streets.
—Clem Lack (Q.).
Homes for the People
I’ve inspected several N. S. Wales Hous-
ing Commission settlements and, like
“5.0.” (B. 28/4/’54), I was surprised that
so many of the residents are well
equipped with transport. Not the second-
hand jalopies that pre-war working-men
sported, either, but new cars worth real
money.
I’ve always believed it the duty of the
State in the field of housing to provide
accommodation for those not capable of
looking after themselves. Yet, judging
by the array of cars and the other indica-
tions of wealth, it is apparent that the
majority of Housing Commission tenants
are people of some substance. They
should be shouldering their own housing
responsibilities and leaving Government
housing to the less well-endowed. —
JINDIVICK (N.S.W.).
My particular impression is that the
rents or repayments are so stiff for
N. S. Wales Housing Commission homes
that you have to be reasonably well-off
before you can afford to live in one of
the things.—O. F. (N.S.W.)
Dairy Cost
The Victorian Minister for Agriculture
exhorted Victorian dairymen to make
every endeavor to reduce production-
costs to meet overseas competition.
That’s all right, but extravagance and
bad management in any industry exist
profitably only when overheads are
readily assimilable in good prices and
steady demand. That has not been the
case with dairying for many years,
although it has been forced to absorb, in
part, extravagance in those industries on
which it depends for necessary equipment
and supplies. Dairying is in the position
where costs cannot be passed on. In the
home-market, prices of dairy-products are
rigidly controlled because they are politic-
ally important, and our inflated economy
prevents our competing in the export
market on a real basis.
Secondary industry, however, can pass
on its costs, even though it may work
inefficiently. I work in a factory employ-
ing, except for a small engineering staff,
unskilled labor. Labor costs are 30 per
cent, more than 40-hour-week rates be-
cause of over-award wages, overtime pen-
alties and bonus payments. All items
used in production—buildings, machinery,
materials —are produced by secondary
industry operating similarly, and their
high cost is also debited to the article we
sell. Mechanically, the plant is not par-
ticularly efficient. It doesn’t have to be,
because it makes a clothing component
with a full local outlet, and uncontrolled
in price.
This is a fair example of what is hap-
pening all along the line in secondary
industry, on which the farmer, among
others, depends for supplies.
If Victorian dairyfarming is not work-
ing as efficiently as it should, none knows
better than the farmer what should be
done to improve the position. He doesn’t
work uneconomically from pure cussed-
ness. Every improvement in method
requires labor, for which the farmer has
to compete with secondary industry, or,
in its stead, labor-saving machinery,
where he is again asked to foot the bill
for overtime and bonuses. And he can t
pass it on!
The reaction to this state of affairs may
be slow, but unless policy is changed the
result is inevitable. Our dairy-herds are
decreasing in proportion to population.
In our local paper this week three herd-
auctions are advertised, as the owners are
“giving up dairying.” There have been
many others over the past year, ourselves
among them. And we wanted to stay on
our farm, although it meant 60 to 70
hours’ work a week without “penalties
(wife’s labor thrown in). Now I work in
a factory and let someone else do the
worrying.—C. O. R. (Vic.).


LONDON
INSIDE
by Helen Bryan
Astounding revelations of life in a women’s gaol
At All Booksellers - - 18/9
PETER DAVIES LIMITED
MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
Published This Week
LORD VANITY
by SAMUEL SHELLABARQER
Not since 'Northwest Passage” have we published a more saleable historical
novel. A story riotous in colour arid packed with exciting incident, that
takes the reader on a magic carpet back to the eighteenth century and
across the world of that day, from Venice to London and Bath, and from
Paris to Quebec.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE DOCTOR TELLS YOU H0W....
Dr. Walter C. Alvarez has compiled this series of concise and informative books,
issued by the Mayo Foundation Clinic, to help people with long standing ailments —
and those who have to live with them....
Each 10/9 (post 5d.)
Write, phone or call in for these and all the books you want. You’ll find them all at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Latest Australian Books
EUSTACIA GOES TO THE CHAEET SCHOOL, by ELINOR M. BRENT-DYER.
School story for girls. 74 x 5. Cloth binding. Dymock's Book Arcade Ltd.,
Sydney. S/6.
THE SCHOOL AT THE CHALET, by ELINOR M. BRENT-DYER. School story for
girls. 7i x 5. Cloth binding. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 8/6.
THERE IS A SANTA CLAUS, by VALENTINE DAVIES. Miracle on 34th Street.
Illustrated by Frank Hodgkinson. Delightful fantasy and humor. 7i x 4f. 120
pages. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 9/6.
HOUSE OF: BONDAGE, by E. M. ENGLAND. Romance with Australian setting.
84 x s|. 269 pages. Cloth binding. Dymock's Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
THE QUEEN CAME BY, by JILL MEILLON. For younger children. 10 x 7s. 36
pages. 30 illustrations. Paper boards. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
GOOD FISHING, by HAL MISSINGHAM. How to catch them and cook them.
8J x 54. 78 pages. Illustrated. Manilla Cover. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd.
Sydney. 10/6.
HAL MISSINGHAM SKETCH BOOK, by HAL MISSINGHAM. Limited edition of
650 signed copies. 14 x 9|. 54 pages. Board cover, spiral binding. Dymock s Book
Arcade Ltd., Sydney. £6/6/-.
EVERYDAY ENGLISH (Secondary—2nd year), by W. A. MORRIS. Educational
textbook. 84 x 54. 343 pages. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 8/6.
NEW SOCIAL STUDIES FOR FIFTH GRADE, by W. A. MORRIS. Educational
textbook. 84 x SJ. 243 pages. 32 illustrations, 8 maps. Manilla cover. Dymock’s
Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 7/6.
PIXIE O’HARRIS GIFT BOOK. Stories and poems written and illustrated by Pixie
O’Harris. 10 x 74. 128 pages. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 15/6.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR FAPUA AND NEW GUINEA, Third Book. A
basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian area of the Pacific.
74 x 54- 128 pages. 106 line drawings. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press,
Melbourne. 3/3.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA, Third Book,
Teacher’s Notes. A teacher’s manual for use with the Third Book in this course.
74 x SJ. 104 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 3/6.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA, Fourth Book.
A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian area of the Pacific.
7i x 54. 132 pages. 87 line drawings. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press,
Melbourne. 3/9.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA, Fourth Book,
Teacher’s Notes. A teacher’s manual for use with the Fourth Book in this course.
74 x 54. 102 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 3/9.
FIJIAN WAY OF LIFE, by G. KINGSLEY ROTH. A study of life in Fiji for the
general reader. 84 x 54. 192 pages. 30 half-tone illustrations, endpaper maps.
Cloth binding. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 21/-.
ABORIGINAL WORDS AND THEIR MEANINGS, by JOAH SUGDEN. Illustrated
by Frank Hodgkinson. 54 x 4. 64 pages. Decorated board cover. Dymock s
Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 6/-.
THE HOUSE WILL DIVIDE, by DON WHITINGTON. A review of Australian
Federal politics in the past 25 years. 84 x 54. 199 pages. Cloth binding.
Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Middle Park, Victoria. 22/6.
Obtainable from all recognised Booksellers
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
only this, but he can show you a wine-
merchant’s trade-card, of about 1830,
with a picture of “An Ancient Crypt in
South-street, Chichester, Built in the 12th
century now the Wine Vaults of E.
Parke/” This was “probably the old
Gildenhall of the City,” says Mr. Git-
tings; and it was under Mrs. Lacy’s
dwelling; and could easily have been
Keats’s inspiration for the medieval halls
of his St. Agnes poem.
But the lovely lights that fell through
the stained-glass window on to the half-
undressed Madeline—they were the lights
from the windows of the Chapel of Stan-
sted Park, on the borders of Hampshire
and Sussex, turned by a wealthy eccentric
into a college for the conversion of the
J® ws - Keats attended the consecration
of this chapel; and a cancelled stanza,
which became stanzas 24 and 25 of Ihe
Eve of St. Agnes, is an almost exact
description of the windows opposite
which Keats spent two or three hours
in Stansted Chapel.
Mr. Gittings’s book is a really remark-
able feat of literary detection and recrea-
tion. It is not possible in a review to
detail all the points he makes, such as,
for instance, his theory that Keats did not
want to marry anyone, or to show how
closely he can follow Keats about after
all these years, taking us even on the walk
from which Keats returned to write the
‘Autumn” ode. He does bring home to
us what an astonishing year it was:
Lamia,” the conclusion of “Isabella,”
The Eve of St. Agnes,” “The Eve of
St. Mark” fragment, "La Belle Dame
Merci,” the “Bright Star” sonnet,
the “Ode to a Nightingale,” the “Ode on
a Grecian Urn,” the “Ode on Melan-
choly,” the “Ode on Indolence,” the
Ode to Autumn ; not to mention the
blank-verse drama Otho and
Hyperion, a Dream. It was Keats s
-3rd year; at September 21, 1819, he
was about five weeks from his 24th birth-
day- .
It is a book which must send the
reader back to thumbing his Buxton
Forman, or whatever inferior edition he
may be condemned to ; and though the
present reviewer must confess that it
cannot overcome his aversion from
“Endymion” and “Hyperion,” it is worth-
while to have been sent back to the
Odes. If only Mr. Gittings had been able
to discover that Keats had not written
“deceiving elf” in the nightingale ode!
But elf and all, there they are, and there
they are going to be. One had thought
one had outgrown them, and that they
were strictly a young person’s dish —
maybe one is not as old as one thought
one was.-
R. McC.
Poet's Prose
English poet Hubert Nicholson has
written, in Little Heyday (Heinemann),
an enchanting short novel concerning the
events in a small boy’s life on one day—
June 28, 1914 —-the day an Austrian Arch-
duke was assassinated at Sarajevo.
The farm around which Billy’s day
revolves is not far from Hull, on the
river Humber, beneath whose estuary lie
seven lost towns “and not a bone or a
stone of them ever comes up to the sight
of living men....with their heroes and
their poets, their Sigurds and Helens, down
there, under that nameless glitter.” But
Billy does not believe the veterinary sur-
geon who tells him of the towns ; he is
unwilling to believe in or accept the facts
of death or change in any shape or form
—he is eight years old. On the other hand,
he obscurely resents a conspiracy of
adults and older children to keep him
away from the field where a favorite mare
with a broken leg is to be destroyed that
afternoon.
That event and the betrothal-party of
his aunt are pivots for the revolving
action of the story, which is a device for
displaying unsentimentally, with exact
sympathy, the way in which Billy acquires
an insight into the mutability of man and
man’s history.
The boy is not the only fine characteri-
sation in the book; the figures of his
grandfather, known as Farmer, a bitter
patriarch disappointed in his sons;
Mother Gall, the village witch; the
child’s frivolous mother; his absent
father, a type of Prodigal Son; Trot, his
brother; Yad, the farm boy; Florrie,
Billy’s favorite aunt; and a group of
visitors to the engagement-party —all are
convincingly presented with exact and
imaginative description,
Hubert Nicholson writes of the farm
and countryside also with a precise devo-
tion—writing expertly controlled, never
over-lush, and frequently, in a leisurely
fashion, quietly humorous
Death in the Fifth Position : Edgar Box
(Heinemann). This is a mystery (recom-
mended by the Book Society), set in New
York, of the murder of a much-disliked
prima ballerina. Murder follows' murder,
and one has already forgotten who did it.
But, if it can hardly be called a good mys-
tery, it is a readable book. Mr. Box
speaks as one familiar with the ballet from
the newspaper-critic’s and press-agent’s
point-of-view; he has some smart com-
ments to make and some pleasing and
comic pictures to paint of ballet people.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 278
Across
I—Victorian1 —Victorian bowler as enrolled with
a Boswell collection introducing
a boy to a girl and an inversion.
(11)
6 —Flora may spend the whole of
life in it, yet not be lazy. (3)
8 — It’s on the Maclntyre quagmire
gossip by the crook one. (10)
9 Nothing guys an augury. (4)
12 — Nile is so exhibiting a greasy
quality. (8)
13 — One who is reducing raillery. (6)
14 — Tempers not lost by a dead
queen, Jolson, and Capone. (7)
15 — We are among the lost and the
least, yet behold the cowboy
country. (6)
18 —This bird is to blow in. (6)
20—Wettest nuisance of the water-
store. (7)
23 R.R. is a double-crosser. (6)
24 — English religious reformer of the
14th century whose remains were
dug up and burnt in the 15th.
(8)
26 — The nervous are often on this
brink. (4)
27 — Have my role to support me.
(4, 2,4)
28 — Step back to undermine a ninny
rubber for instance. (3)
29 — Magister Maslatter. (5, 6)
Down
1— Two Old Testament characters
in a collection of odds and ends.
(3-3)
2 Ben’s sowing of wild oats during
the dance. (8-5)
3 G.B.S. born a Red Indian? (7)
4 Anne’s ill and confused because
of my own self in the Highlands.
(8)
5 Confederate has all the shape of
the radii that divide a circle into
thirds. (4)
7 —Mineral with plant-like markings
is to make the coppers finish the
religious proceeding. (8)
10 — Bill’s future is no longer sup-
porting the substance ' truths.
(7, 2,4)
11 — It is a little higher than the holy
love to Henry. (4)
16 — Black leopard is teetotal. (8)
17— When the scarlet runner is blue?
(4,4)
19 —Holly and I against the law. (4)
21—Flourishing artist introduces ft
friend to Miss Morris in a his-
toric oasis of the Syrian desert.
(7)
22 —Who hires out mail? (6)
25—Pole parent to rue acorns and* ;
beechnuts for pigs. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 277


i'll
I ii II
- JISSI« 11
, tmonttQ ii
Irraffoantin nil ll
jJi no on an on n H II
:I on £tD tm DU 1111 II
mnnnrarann 11
LlUl
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. TV G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL,
M.R.A.C.P.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES;
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins, 8.A.,
LL.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Garrick, A.A.S.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 I 3 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers, Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager: D. W. Chaflfer
TASMANIA;
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager; L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1953;
k NEW BUSINESS RECORD established fey the issue of 10,125
Policies assuring £12,863,721.
★ ASSETS INCREASED BY £2,269,237 offer providing £28,585
for Depreciation, and now total £25,747,579.
§ Policies in Force exceed 127,000, assuring
over £82,000,000
<1 Premium Income amounted to £3,003,787
q Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1953,
totalled £978,845, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£15,750,000
f Special Additional Reserves amount to
£BOO,OOO
A Increased Bonuses
Assurance
C lncorporated in New South Wales in 187 S)
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
