

THE HOUSE
ď
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
IVIACQUARIE-PLACE AND A ROYAL OCCASION
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3858
Wednesday, January 20, 1954
Price 9d^
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
HISTORIC KNOWSLEY HALL HOUSES A MAGNIFICENT ART COLLECTION
KNOWSLEY HALL, seven miles from Liverpool in Lancashire, has been
for centuries the principal home of the Earls of Derby. The present
holder of the title is the eighteenth Earl who inherited the estates and title from
his grandfather, who died in 1948. The seventeenth Earl, who was immensely
wealthy, excelled in many walks of life, but perhaps was best known as the
leading figure and often the leading owner on the English turf, for he
possessed one of the largest and most valuable racing stables in England.
The home of this great statesman and sportsman is now open to the
public, and its many treasures and historical relics are on view. For those
interested in racing the Smoking Room would have the strongest appeal, for
here are to be seen pictures of horses famous in racing history. The most
renowned race in the world, the Derby, run annually at Epsom, was called
after the twelfth Earl, and was run for the first time in 1780.
For many centuries Knowsley Hall was regarded as a centre of culture
and learning, and from the reign of Henry Tudor the owners of this great
mansion have provided hospitality to Kings, Queens and other members of
the royal family. Consequently, the palatial rooms bear such names as the
Royal Chambers, the King’s Corridor, the State Dining Room. The latter
is an imposing room 53 feet long and almost as high, and the great Gothic
church-like doors form an impressive entrance. In 1587 one hundred and
eighteen servants were employed at Knowsley. These included a chaplain,
two trumpeters and the man with the most difficult job of all, the profes-
sional jester. Before the Second World War there were fifty-six servants in
the house, but in recent years the number has become progressively less.
It is recorded in the Household Book that on Bth September, 1589, the
Queen’s Players played at Knowsley in the afternoon, and were followed in
the evening by Lord Essex’s Company, of which Shakespeare was a member.
In the Main Library is the carpet that was used in Westminster Abbey for
the Coronation of King George V. and Queen Mary.
During the Second World War Know,sley was alternative headquarters
for conducting the Battle of the Atlantic.


đ
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“1 list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Dally Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St..
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND if AIL THIS COUPON —— ■
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S-B. 264)
AGE
The Red Page
OUTBACK FANTASIES
In The Gambling Ghost (Angus and
Robertson) Mr, Dal Stivens submits a
set of very brief fantasies of the out-
back, one or two of which have been
printed in The Bulletin: how Rawhide
Harry caught the giant groper that had
run away with the farmer’s plough ; how
Cabbage-tree Ned fought his duel with
the bushranger Captain Thunderclap;
how Ironbark Bill met the bunyip; and
so on.
It is a vein which promises much and
one which, though some American influ-
ence is apparent, is a natural continua-
tion of the Australian tradition of “The
Champion Bullock-driver” and the ballad
of “Daley’s Dorg Wattle,” which
rounded-up a blowfly into a bottle ; but
it must be said that Mr. Stivens’s leads
peter out disappointingly. Some are
merely blank —tunnels containing, so far
as this reviewer can observe, nothing at
all. Most are, at best, patchy. As in
many of Saroyan’s stories the title, or
the naming of a character, is often the
best part of it.
By far the most satisfying story is the
title-piece, “The Gambling Ghost.” Its
ending is weak —the point about Frying-
pan Fred’s money changing into ghostly
currency is hardly worth making —but
weak solutions to bright propositions are
common in fantasy-writing ; and for the
rest the story is everywhere excellent.
There is something typically and amus-
ingly Australian in the basic idea of
ghosts in the outback continuing to play
two-up in the scrub, and Mr. Stivens has
here just the right dead-pan tone to
make the impossible sound perfectly
natural, whether it is when the ghost
first borrows ten shillings or when he
makes himself increasingly at home in
Fred’s shack:
The next night when Frying-pan reached
his hut the ghost was snoring in the bunk,
and on the table were the remains of the
damper, the tea, the plug of tobacco and
three empty bottles of nelly’s-death.
It took Frying-pan ten minutes to rouse
the ghost and then he swayed on his feet
and sat down on the bunk.
“You brought me luck but your own
was out, Frying-pan,” says the ghost in
an apologetic voice. “I ought to have
stopped when your hundred was gone but
I reckoned I’d get it back.”
Here is one story which might find
itself a permanent home in Australian
anthologies ; no doubt in company with
selections from the flashes of brilliance in
other styles which Mr. Stivens has
achieved in the past.
Why are the remaining fantasies in
this short book so unsatisfactory?
It is not that Mr. Stivens lacks ideas;
the kind of ideas he needs to succeed in
this vein. There is probably not one
of the stories which does not somewhere
contain, in one or more of the packed
and sometimes overloaded paragraphs,
some authentic bit of fantastic Austra-
lian folklore —the kind of tail-story
which the famous Aboliars of The
Bulletin have been spinning in “Abo-
riginalities” paragraphs for years. For
instance, despite the mannerism of the
style, there is a tail-story of consider-
able note when Captain Thunderclap
shoots the bees;
A swarm of bees zipped over Thunder-
clap’s head and before you can crack your
fingers Cabbage-tree has fired and pinked
out the queen and the swarm boiled around
and made a line for Thunderclap....
Before you can wink three times Thunder-
clap has taken beads on the bees and shot
them down one by one, faster than a
lightning-flash on a holiday. y
Or take, again, as an epitome of the
outback, the opening paragraph of
“Sammy the Sand Mullet”:
A block of land Ironbark Bill selected
in the too-poor country was so crook the
grasshoppers carried cut-lunches when
they moved across it. The rabbits were so
thin they didn’t bother to dig burrows but
just used the ant-holes. As for the ants,
they’d got so small they disappeared.
Or, in the same story, the sheep which
had been trained to live on half a cup
of water a day from the artesian bore,
swimming through the flood to get
their daily drink ; and Ironbark battling
with the dust-storms:
Going to town for supplies once a
month was crook if a storm was up.
Ironbark got nowhere until he hit on the
lurk of hitching Break Wind nose-first
into the dray. The grey blood-horse would
push the dray backwards and Ironbark,
with Sammy curled up at his feet, would
stand and dig a way through, whirling a
long-handled shovel. One very bad storm,
after Ironbark had been heaving on the
shovel for four hours, he suddenly ran
into clear sunshine, and began crossing a
great flat plain, bare of trees or anything.
Sammy started to whine and Ironbark
knew something was wrong, but he didn’t
wake up until he came on a couple of
rabbits, panting and heaving as though,
they’d never get their breath back. Iron-
bark and the rabbits had dug their way
right up to the top of the dust-storm.
Yet, with all that, “Sammy the Sand
Mullet” strikes this reviewer as essen-
tially a futile story ; indeed, silly ; and
it is one of the stories which are good
in patches, not merely empty like the
fables about ostriches and roosters which
have no perceptible point whatever.
“Sammy the Sand Mullet” is about a
fish which Ironbark Bill has picked up
in Manly while on holidays and of
which, training it to live on dry land
and to round-up the sheep (“At first he
was a bit slow on his fins, but after a
time he could move quite smartly”), he
has made a pet. That is shaggy-dog stuff
rather than Australian outback fantasy ;
and it illustrates what seems to be the
basic weakness in these stories; that
they are not “in keeping,” to use
Matthew Arnold’s term.
A sand-mullet from Manly is not “in
keeping” with dust-storms in the out-
back ; and an event as far-fetched and
mechanical as a sand-mullet rounding-up
sheep is not in keeping with the
acceptable limits of fantasy—for, as
with the dust-storm stories or the shoot-
ing of the bees, fantasy need not of
course be credible but must be, in the
mood and place of the story, plausible.
Like the sand-mullet rounding-up the
sheep, the yabbies which cut the wool
and the ants which stack it in “The
Wonderfully Intelligent Sheep-dog” are
inappropriate (whereas the dog in the
same story is perfectly acceptable when
he rounds-up the willy-willies); and so,
too, is it inappropriate to have Rawhide
Harry, the horse-breaker, catching the
giant groper in “The Champion Horse-
breaker.” If it is to be a fantasy about
a fish, surely the hero should be a fisher-
man ; and if it is a story about a horse-
breaker, surely the fish should be in
some other story.
In style and language, too, one is
similarly jarred by inappropriateness
throughout the stories. Mr. Stivens’s
slang is too slick, too cityfied and too
ephemeral for his outback atmosphere—•
when he writes “Ironbark got lemony,”
for instance. His quirks and manner-
isms of rhythm, his repetitions and his
laborious similes, in all of which one
seems to detect an American influence
(it is very like some of the writing they
do for children in the “Little Golden
Books”), never sound like a natural Aus-
tralian method of storytelling.
Who Was Alexander Harris?
James Whittaker’s letter, quoted in
“Was Harris a Convict?” (B. 23/12/’53),
does not appear to bring the history of
Alexander Harris, the author of Settlers
and Convicts, any nearer than when Pro-
fessor C. M. H. Clark set out to discover
it.
When the Alexander Harris described
by Mr. Whittaker married Sarah Lacey
at St. Phillip’s Church of England on
September 20, 1824, he signed with a
mark. {Vol. 8, St. Phillip s C. of E. Mar-
riages, No. 368) Unless his wife taught
him expeditiously to read and write, that
would, I fancy, make it rather difficult for
him to produce even one book, let alone
the four or five extant.
In view of Professor Clark’s public ap-
peal in “The Times,” I venture to make
one or two suggestions that he may find
helpful in solving his problem.
Professor Clark bases his belief that
Harris left the Colony in 1841 on some-
what insecure foundations.
First, it is assumed that he “arrived” in
-1825 because “he mentions that when he
first went to Parramatta the building of
the Darling Mills had just been com-
pleted. That was in March, 1826.” What
Harris actually says is, “Another build-
ing which struck me very much was the
Darling Steam Mills, just completed
about this time.” Written some twenty
years later, this loose expression could
as well apply to the second half of 1826
or even later.
In fact, three pages earlier, Harris
mentions that at the time “a very severe
drought was at its height.” This drought
was the record drought of 1827-8 men-
tioned by Governor Darling in a dis-
patch of April 10, 1828, thus, “The last
year [1827j has been remarkable for a
Drought, which with the exception of
some partial Thunder Showers con-
tinued uninterrupted during the whole of
the year” ( H.R.A., Vol. XIV, p. 136).
As far as 1826 is concerned, according
to the “Sydney Gazette” of August, 1826,
beneficent showers heralded the ap-
proach of an abundant spring in that
year. Again, the crops seen by Harris’s
hero along the Hawkesbury at this point
in the story are scarcely consistent with
an April visit to the area.
Obviously this was a summer pere-
grination, and the summer in question
was that of 1827-8, about twelve months
after Harris’s hero’s “arrival” in the Col-
ony. Other points in the narrative sup-
port this.
It is his miscalculation of a year that
has thrown the professor’s search for
Harris out of gear. The mere fact that
Harris made no mention of events of
1842 onwards is no sort of reliable evi-
dence that he left in 1841.
Once it is agreed that Harris arrived
in the Colony in 1826, his departure in
1842 follows as a reasonable conclusion.
The importance of this is that in 1842
three gentlemen named Harris left the
Colony by three different ships in May,
July arid October—an odd coincidence, to
say the least. Their initials are not given
in the newspaper lists, but these could
be pursued in the records of the port of
entry, which was London. The October
Harris might be traced first as offering the
best prospect of a successful hunt.
Another possibly significant fact is that
there were Harrises settled on the Goul-
burn Plains from 1829 onward, as may
be ascertained by consulting an adver-
tisement in “The Australian” of Janu-
ary 2, 1829, in reference to a piece of
gully-raking, with which amiable pastime
our author was well acquainted.
Again, during the years 1831-9, a
Harris conveyed land in pretty well all
the areas mentioned by our author. In
1839 this conveyancing suddenly ceased.
Could this Harris have been an em-
ployer, or even a relative, of our author?
Again, in view of Alexander Harris’s
connection with the A.A. Company,
search might be made in its records for
any light on his career.
That Settlers and Convicts was the
manuscript of a picaresque novel, I have
no doubt. The main thread of the story
is so shot through with inconsistencies,
contradictions, and chronological lapses
that it could not be considered anything
else.
But consider Harris appearing before
his publisher with the MSS. Emigration
is in the air, receiving wide publicity,
and the book must be sold. Let us, where
possible, insert slabs of advice to intend-
ing emigrants. Let’s bring in the name of
the worthy Captain Maconochie. Let us
put on the title-page, “By an Emigrant
Mechanic ”
Was it because Maconochie objected to
the use of his name that it was dropped
from later editions of Harris’s works?
Is there anything about Harris in
Maconochie’s papers? Or in his friend,
Kingston’s?
It does not seem proper to infer, be-
cause no record of Australian response
to Harris’s writings appears to be in-
dexed, that no record of it exists. Per-
usal of the 1850-52 files of the “Gouh
burn Herald” —Goulburn was one of
Harris’s haunts—reveals that readers are
advised by at least one newspaper to take
his work with a grain of salt. Why not
comb Australian religious newspapers of
the day for a reference to his Autobio-
graphy?
Even if James Whittaker’s Alexander
Harris is ultimately proved not to be the
quarry, I for one, hope that Professor
Clark’s further researches will result in
a revised edition.
COLIN RODERICK.
THE RETURN
They said “When he returns
How shall he see us?” meaning
Would they know him the same,
The slender man at morning
Rolling the empty cans
With the sun on them a white flame;
Slapping the flanks of the mare
A caress more than a gesture
Of impatience at her sleep;
Putting the herd to pasture,
Whistling to the old dog there.
And tossing a light stone at the sheep. . .
He walked up to the gate
Under the trees, bringing
The shyness he found in the lane.
They saw it and, hearts singing,
Simply said "You’re late,”
And watched him take down his whip
again.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
"Greenway" Reprinted
Angus and Robertson have published a
new, revised and popular edition of M. H.
Ellis’s Francis Greenway, previously
available only in the sumptuous de luxe
edition by the Shepherd Press in 1949.
It is a compact and vivid biography of
the vehement little convict architect who
designed many of Sydney’s finest build-
ings, and whether as a portrait
way in his tragic and sometimes comic
career, or as a recreation of the color and
vitality of the Macquarie period, it has
few rivals in Australian historical litera-
ture.
It is the sort of standard work that
should always, with others of its kind, be
kept in print, and one is glad to see it
now made available to a wider audience.
Gorky's Life
It would be too much to say that all
Russian writers of the Left get their
effects of the chaotic futility of life under
the Tsars by moving hurriedly from de-
pravity to depravity, because there is
Dostoievsky, who can secure more op-
pressive gloom by rotting in the one place
for a hundred pages than can Maxim
Gorky in the hurried skippings from place
to place, from childhood to early man-
hood, which constitute his A utobiography
(Elek).
This large volume, a complete render-
ing of his three books, My Childhood, In
the World and My Universities, has been
translated very well into American by
Isador Schneider, with occasional slang-
terms like “hoboes” to give the flavor of
Gorky’s writing. Its violence and garish
color are as foreign to us and as exciting
as the “Firebird” ballet, and its progress
of the lonely soul through cruelty, stupid
conspiracy and obscenity, which might in
an English observer have been lightened.
by humor, is seen through an eye more
anxious to record than to comprehend.
He begins with his mother and grand-
mother weeping beside his father’s death-
bed ; he is taken by boat to his grand-
father’s house and factory. This little old
leather-dyer is a kindly autocrat with a
real love of whipping little boys and
beating-up his superb, all-enduring
grandmother. The mother remarries to
a ne’er-do-well and dies. The factory is
burnt down. The sons stage drunken
rebellions against the grandfather. The
old man moves from big house to small
house ; from house to room. The boy
goes to live with other relatives and
works in a shoe-shop among scheming
employees. He takes a job on a river-
boat, and has long talks to lonely sailors.
He goes back to the relatives and is plot-
ted-against by their wives. He is taken
kindly in hand by several women of
elegance, who lend him books to read.
He works in a shop which sells icons and
psalters, where the owner gets another
salesman to try to force Gorky to give
something away or break something so
that Gorky shall be in his power.
Then he goes to a University, and joins
his fellow-students in their incursions into
brothels, still a non-participant observer;
he meets revolutionary writers ; studies
the violin ; shoots himself, but misses the
heart and hits the lung; takes to boats
again, becomes a night-watchman; as-
sists again, as spectator only, at further
obscene orgies, meets a married woman
ten years his senior, is finally accepted as
her lover, and takes her to live with him.
By this time, he is being arrested fairly
regularly for his writings; he is a pro-
tege of the poet Korolenko, with a tribute
to whom the book ends.
Altogether, it is a magnificent piece of
writing, but the curious thing about this
Socialist author is that it is the lower
classes, the shop-assistants, the peasants
and the bargerhands, who disgust him,
and the women of the masses who repel
him; his more pleasing pictures of men
are of the generals and colonels who ex-
amine him on his arrests, and his respect
and love are kept for the bourgeois
women who are kind to him and lend him
books: he seeks continually the elegance
his writings set out to destroy.


m
»
■
1
m
buy your home pin ns ut
..... “Horae Plans Bureau”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ have recently opened an ultra-smart "Modern Homes Plans Bureau”
on their third floor. Here, you can choose a plan to suit your particular type of
land from our wide range of at least twenty-five moderately priced plans, all designed by that
well-known Sydney architect, H. L. Divola. Each plan is priced, complete with
3 copies including specifications ut
gns,
This includes any necessary ground level alterations. A qualified architect will
be in attendance to give advice and assistance between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. daily and 9.30 and 12 noon
Saturdays. Country customers may participate in this offer. All you need to do is write to
ANTHONY HORDERNS’, Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney, and we will send a questionnaire to be filled in.
Truly a harm for homemakers our
“contemporary shop”
m
m
If you’re dreaming of a home furnished in the
modern manner, our wonderful “Contemporary
Shop” on the third floor can make these dreams
come true. Here, in this ultra-smart shop within
a shop, is every facility for you, the home
planner, to select (with the aid of one of our
three experienced interior decorators) furnish-
ings and furniture to the best advantage. Here,
too, you will find an extensive array of Swedish
furniture, modern fabrics; carpets, ceramics
and little knick-knacks.
TRY THESE
SERVICES
tPue speedy
Delivery
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ will
deliver purchases to your home or
office. This service not only in-
cludes the Metropolitan area, but
extends as far south as Kiama, as
far west as Blackheath, as far north
as Terrigal, and as far south-west
as Camden. For the delivery of
furniture we have a large fleet of
new pantechnicons. Each van is
specially padded, also ventilated
and dustproof, to ensure even tem-
perature in all weathers. In no
way is your furniture harmed en
route.
efficient
Eye Service
Your eyes, when in need of atten-
tion, will most likely sound their
own warning. Headaches and eye-
strain are but two of the symptoms.
Often this warning goes unheeded
—but if you’re wise you’ll quickly
pay a visit to our special 2nd floor
Optical Centre, where Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., the
consulting optometrist, will be only
too happy to guide you in the care
of your eyes. Special attention is
given to all Doctors’ and Hospital
prescriptions!
Agency for
Commonwealth
Savings Bank
This is such a saving of time. All
you have to do is register your
signature here and you can then
make deposits or withdrawals while
you are shopping at A.H.!
Post Office
On our ground floor, Pitt Street,
we have a branch of the G.P.O.
where you may transact any type
of postal business whilst in the
store.
Writing Room
Next to our Post Office is a special
writing room, where customers may
attend to correspondence in com-
fort and quiet. Writing materials
are provided. Grnd. Fir., Pitt St.
S&udtO Gardening Quiz Each Saturday morning, at 8.30; our “Gardening
Quiz,” is conducted by Anthony Horderns’ gardening expert, Mr. Albert Evans, F.R.H.S., over
station 2GB. Mr. Evans gives an interesting talk on gardening problems and will gladly
answer questions over the air or in person. Agricultural Department, 4th Floor.
d
d
ď
d


How They Work the Pick-up
The Waterfront is Watertight
By THOMAS A. MILES
HSteS fSf kSE
streT Sydney not far from the
approaches!© *
is the waterfront office of the Common-
wealth Employment Service A notice-
board at the door bears the inscrintion
“Waterfront Employment but
gives no indication that the office is under
control of ffie CommonweaUh Govern-
ment.
In nnint nf :+ ~
monweahb f * at Com-
miniver!? and ad-
onlv fbn<sp or 1 is address where
are eKmhip for * r§ -ru U ? lons
are rwi til™ • d °° rS
. umoms s.
thirtv ay mormng about seven-
men congregate at the
h.'co U 1 m ®' -7] d °, ol i °s e^ s ’ tb j
fnr thA n v?^ e lf\ mSld u and , lB f° dowed
tor the next half-hour by a steady stream
hunSS have enLefti
Zn ou I ? f *
it £*2 15 ° T Bm ’ as
rPn trp J? y ltS babltL ! es ’ 18 th ® pick-up
front 6 ab casual workers on the water-
w e^ ce P t mei^ bers °f |he Waterside
(loading and un-
oadmgs)i ships), who have their own pick-
and a < T°^ ns Bond -
Unions which pick up at 211 Kent-street
e storemen and Packers’, Painters and
Dockers , Sugar Workers, Miscellaneous
Workers (watchmen) and Federated
Clerks Union (tally-clerks).
A stranger entering the building and
findmg the firs * two floors packed with
men of all ages might well think he had
entered some kind of auction-room as,
above the dm of conversation, he would
b s ar tbe sb outing of a series of numbers.
If he could get near enough to discern
it through the haze of cigarette-smoke he
would see that the numbers were being
called from large blackboards on the
walls of the offices.
What actually is taking place is the
calling of the roster” to fill the requisi-
tions for labor submitted by various water-
front employers—shipping companies,
wool-stores, stevedoring companies, ship-
repair firms, and so forth. Within the
first hour anything from 400 to 600 men
are engaged and sent off to employment
on or about the wharves. Underlying the
din and chatter there is a good measure
of quiet efficiency and organisation which
enables the comparatively small staff to
fill all labor requirements and get the
men off to their jobs on time.
A staff of eight men of the employment
service is assisted by representatives of all
of the unions concerned in the pick-up.
All labor picked-up is paid at casual rates,
which are higher than the rates paid to
permanent men.
When the doors open at “The Bin”
there is usually a good-humored rush,
each man anxious to get in and have his
name added to the roster of his calling.
As the employee enters his pick-up he
reports to the union official in attendance,
calls out his union number, or presents
his union medal bearing his number, and
the number is chalked on the roster-
board. The control of the roster is en-
tirely in the hands of the union.
While the employee is reporting to his
union official * the employers’ representa-
tives are handing in their requisitions to
the employment-officer for labor required.
All requisitions for labor must be lodged
before the pick-up commences.
Sharp at eight o’clock the pick-up gets
going in all sections, the employment-
officer calling the requirements of the
respective firms in the order in which they
are lodged. For instance, if a certain
wool-store requires 15 storemen and
packers the employment-officer makes this
announcement. The union official con-
cerned immediately calls the first 15
numbers on the roster-board. As each
number is called the owner of it ap-
proaches the counter and hands to the
employment-officer his employment-card,
on which his name and union number are
recorded. The employment-officer enters
on the card the name of the firm, makes
a note of the man’s name and hands the
card back to him. This endorsement of
the card, which is issued by the Common-
wealth Government, constitutes a contract
of employment.
When the 15 numbers have been called
the employment-officer completes a
docket, really an advice-note to the firm
concerned advising them of the names
and numbers of the men picked-up for
them. This docket is handed to the firm’s
representative. This call occupies only a
few minutes, the other calls follow in
similar fashion until the whole pick-up
is completed.
All pick-ups for casual labor made each
morning stipulate “an eight-o’clock start,”
which means the man is paid from the
time the pick-up commenced. He must
find his own way to the place of employ-
ment and is allowed until ten o’clock to
reach there.
The engagement is until the job for
which he is picked-up is completed. No
period of employment is stipulated at
the time of pick-up. It may be for a day,
the minimum allowed, or for two or three
weeks or more. When the job is finished
the man must report back to the pick-up
centre, have his name placed on the
roster again and attend for pick-up.
When a man’s number is called for a
job he must accept or, alternatively, have
his number placed at the foot of the roster.
The employer cannot, without very good
reasons, refuse to accept a man for em-
ployment.
The roster-system does not operate
in all unions. Watchmen for ships and
wharves, who belong to the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union, are still picked-up under
the old system, the employer having the
right of free selection from among those
present.
Both systems have their advocates.
Under the roster-system the employer has
to accept the men as rostered, be they
good, bad or indifferent, and pay them
all at the same rate. Under “free-selec-
tion” the employer is able to make his
choice, but employees complain that there
is not an even distribution of work among
those available: some men are picked-up
regularly, others only when there is a
shortage of labor.
For attending the pick-up and not
securing employment, appearance-money
is paid in some callings and not in others.
The amount paid is usually 12s. 6d. for
each appearance without pick-up.
By nine o’clock the pick-ups are com-
pleted. Those engaged are on their way
to their place of employment. Those who
missed-out leave “The Bin,” some to re-
turn home and others to wait for ten
o’clock at the hotels. The union repre-
sentative cleans his roster-board and
rewrites the numbers in their correct order
ready for the next day. Those who missed-
out automatically take their place higher
up on the board.
For those interested in labor and its
problems an early-morning visit to “The
Bin” is both interesting and instructive.
Slight Dissension
I HAD gone to the local hardware
store for a pair of pawls for my
old lawnmower. The proprietor
is one of those fellows who look
you up and down. “What size?” he
asked abruptly.
‘I haven’t measured myself
lately,” I replied, “but as I have
gone five feet five for the”
No, no,” he said. What size is
your mower? _ .
Actually, it is difficult for me to
* should think the blade
would be in length somewhere be-
tween a carpenter’s pencil that had
been sharpened four or five times
with a blunt blade and a half-grown
death-adder.”
He seemed to be seized with some
apoplectic condition. When he re-
covered he looked desperately
around, and his eye fell on a hand-
mower. “There,” he gritted, “is a,
twelve-inch one. Is yours like that?”
“Not exactly,” I replied. “Mine
hasn’t a varnished handle like that
one and”
“What about the size ?” he almost
shouted.
“It’s hard for me to judge, not
having my old gardening pants on,”
I said, “but I’d say it was within
six inches of it, anyway. I suppose.
that’s near enough.”
As he handed me my change he
must have seen me glancing at a
motor-mower near by. He made a
bad guess and said, pointing to it,
That s the shot for you. It s a
Brown s. Nothing ever goes wrong
with that make. Saves hours of
ba »7xl oriC ’ . . , ,
It does a good job? I asked,
♦<a N , Ol^ e better! ”he ? a ‘ d ea S erl .y-
And it has a beautiful smooth-
running engine -it’s a two-stroke
with a flywheel magneto, and the
clutch is automatically controlled by
en “Mtoe?s d not a very large lawn -
T ■ It, a vef y la * ge lawn,
L?? . A P f? f 1 man f
with a one-and-a-half stroke and a
magneto Still, I
must say it looks very handsome.
His face brightened at that.
“Would you like to have it demon-
strated on your own lawn?” he
asked. “What sort of lawn have
you?” '
“Oh, a mixture of grasses, mostly
imported,” I replied.
“One of those golf-green types,”
he said genially. “You’d find this
mower ideal, and the heavy land-
rollers will give it a beautiful
billiard-table finish. Shall we say
this afternoon?”
“We shall,” I replied. “I am look-
ing forward to seeing how that fly-
blown magneto thing works.”
He duly cast up with the mower,
and I observed that his bottom jaw
fell almost onto his chest as his
eye fell on the lawn. However, he
could scarcely admit that the
machine was incapable of negotiating
it, so he set it going.
“Now observe,” he said impor-
tantly. “To put it into gear you
simply do this. See this spinning
drum on the side here? Just stop
it, then slide it around until the
holes in it engage the lugs on the
clutch here, so! Now to make the
mower move off all you need do is
pull this little lever on the right
handle-bar towards you.”
“Like this?” I asked, and pulled
it.
As the machine roared away
across the lawn I leaped after it
and grabbed the handles. “Where’s
the brake?” I shouted.
“It hasn’t got one!” he yelled.
“Push the accelerator the other way
—quickly! ”
“Which is the accel”
It was too late! The grass-
catcher in the front had crunched
against the side-fence and the weight
of the bucking machine behind con-
certina’d if. The hardware cove
dashed over and switched it off.
“There! ” I said sternly, “Now
#look at my sunflowers! That comes
of bringing a machine along with-
out first fitting brakes to it. Even
I would know better than to”
“You idiot! I tell you it doesn’t
need brakes!” he shouted. “If you
hadn’t been halfwitted you could
have stopped it with the accelerator.”
“Can you stop a car with the
accelerator?” I asked, with stunning
logic.
He started the machine, going
again and soon had it bumping over
the lawn. Half a dozen times in a
few yards he had to back it and
make a detour around some hiatus
or other.
“It doesn’t seem very effective,”
I leraarked.
“Did you say this was a mixture
of imported grasses?” he asked
bitterly.
“That’s right,” I said. “Nut-grass,
onion-grass and paspalum. There is
one native grass in it —‘Parramatta
grass, and perhaps a touch of
Chilean Whitlow and sour-grass.”
“This isn’t a lawn so much as a
switchback-railway choked with a
mass of noxious weeds,” he rasped.
“I”
Just then there was an awful
grinding of metal on metal, and the
machine threw off sparks around
the blades. He switched it off, bent
down and, ferreting in the long
grass, picked up half an iron caster
off an old lounge-chair.
“Look!” he roared, pointing to
the blades. “It’s broken a revolving
blade and chewed a big junk out of
the cutting-blade.”
“What have you got to growl
about!” I asked severely, “You’ve
gone and ruined my good caster.
Take your mower to hell out of it.
My own wouldn’t have cut that
caster in two like that.”
Still, it’s a pity he had to strike
the caster at the beginning and not
the end of the mowing.
Bo.
EXMOUTH GULF
By Ex-R.S.M.
MY first sight of Exmouth Gulf,
where the oil came up, was in early
1943. The Americans had estab-
lished a submarine-base there
under Commander Quesada. It was
guarded by an R.A.A.F. fighter-squadron,
with a radar-station on the hill above
the lighthouse at North-west Cape and
batteries of A.I.F. ack-ack guns under
Major Stokes-Hughes, World War I
veteran and rubber-planter in Malaya in
civil life.
The original intention was to base the
huge American submarine depot-ship
Peleus there, but as soon as this floating
workshop arrived Jap bombers based in
Java came across after dark and tried to
sink her. Our guns kept them high, and
they did no damage. In any case, their
attack showed the same wellnigh incred-
ible blundering which characterised those
other abortive raids on Townsville, Moss-
man, Horn Island and Thursday Island.
Still, this raid made the U.S. Navy send
the Peleus back to Fremantle. At first
it was thought that the Japs must have
sneaked some scouts ashore to report the
presence of a worth-while target in the
Gulf. Patrols wore out a lot of boot-
leather trying to find them in the rocky
hills.
Then the cause of the Jap attack was
discovered. Prior to the arrival of
Peleus the local wireless-station had sent
out an average of 5000 words daily.
Upon her arrival this jumped to 20,000
words. Naturally, the Japs knew then
that something was happening there. After
this the station sent out a steady 20,000
words daily, but usually it was mostly
coded tripe.
At some times of the year the water
in the Gulf is like glass for days on end.
This fact led to the death of Bluey Trus-
cott. He was practising sea-level attacks
on one of our Catalinas coming in to
land and misjudged his height above the
calm, clear water.
The Gulf is a wonderful place for fish.
Where rocks outcrop on the beaches there
is an abundance of oysters. Unaware of
this local supply, the Americans included
tinned-oysters in their Q.M. stores. On
the ocean side of the peninsula there is
an extensive reef smothered in fine
oysters, and with wonderful big-game
fishing around it.
It is incorrect to call the country there
desert. It is third-class pastoral land,
having a lOin. rainfall and all held as
sheep-stations. Here and there are kurra-
jongs and native fig-trees, with strips of
scrub in some of the gullies. The winter
climate is wonderful, but it can be very
hot in the summer. An occasional
cyclone strays that way.
Water could be a problem at the new
oil-strike. Bores in the area give a reason-
able supply of good stock-water, but
something better would be required for
a large settlement. Surface-catchments
are ruled out by the porous nature of the
soil. Still, if the field is a big producer,
some of the oil could be used as fuel for
condensing sea-water. At the head of the
Persian Gulf one such distilling-plant
now puts out half a million gallons daily.
In my travels I’ve seen plenty of far
worse spots to live than Exmouth Gulf
will be if the oil-strike lives up tQ its
promise.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 20, 1954
VoL 75—No, 3858
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man**
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
TRADE AND THE FUTURE
If the British Commonwealth Finance Conference
has done no more than it says it has done there is
room for wonder why it took the trouble to meet
behind armed guards and in an atmosphere which
seemed to simple Australians more in keeping with war
than peace. Much greater precautions were taken to
guard the conference than are obvious in relation to
the impending visit of the Queen; and seemingly the
measures which are being taken to guard the secrecy
of its doings are just as ironbound.
The conference is unanimous that sterling coun-
tries should strengthen their individual positions and
sterling as a currency, and establish with other coun-
tries a wider and freer system of trade and finance in
which convertibility of sterling is an essential part. It
was decided that gold and dollar reserves should be
further augmented, but not to the exclusion of other
“hard” currencies ; that the Commonwealth should
continue to act collectively in pressing on the United
States the need for partial convertibility between
sterling and dollar currencies—a matter on which
Canada, the only dollar country at the conference,
must have held its own particular views because of the
fact that its dollar is freed. Finally, apart from fore-
shadowing a big rice scheme for Ceylon, which will
be examined and may be built up with outside capital,
the only thing remaining was an agreement that
Commonwealth countries should use the London loan-
market to further their development programmes now
that British Treasury restrictions are being eased.
The really important decision was in respect of
internal policies aiming at a co-ordinated plan to
prevent new inflation. Whether this took the aspect of
a sort of fire-brigade meeting to design arrangements
against the possible results of looming changes in
the nature of world competition, or whether they had
regard to the possibilities of other eventualities, such
as war, there is not likely to be any announcement
about them. They are inevitably matters for the
Budgets of the various component countries, measures
to be put into operation in each country’s annual
financial arrangements and therefore not to be
bandied about for criticism or the benefit of specula-
tors, or publicised in circumstances which suggest
that they are due to external influences.
However, whatever has been done will be interest-
ing in the light of the United States policy and of
changes taking place in the flow of goods to and from
countries which have been in the hands of conquerors
or isolated by war so long that other nations have
almost forgotten that they exist as competitors with
British Commonwealth interests.
That the President of the United States fore-
shadowed in his “state-of-ffie-nation” message the
day before the conference opened that he “would sub-
mit detailed recommendations for the creation of a
healthier and freer system of trade and payments
within the free world after the Commission on Foreign
Economic Policy had made its report” may have led
the delegates to mark-time until after Mr. Eisen-
hower has shown what the sequel will be to his asser-
tion that “the free world could no longer afford the
kind of arbitrary restraints on trade that have con-
tinued since the war, and the relationship between
the United States and Western Europe, which, by
continuing to surpass its pre-war levels of economic
activity, was entering a new phase.” It certainly is, if
the Randall Committee’s findings, which he is
awaiting, equal expectations. The forecast is that
while recommending the retention for four years of
the present reciprocal trade agreement (with loopholes),
the commission is likely to suggest means for making
the currencies of friendly countries convertible, the
relaxation of restrictions on trade with European
Communist countries, insurance by the Government
of American investments overseas, and Federal aid to
industries damaged by lowered tariffs whose continu-
ance is important to defence—woolgrowing, lead
and zinc industries in particular.
The trends of the report expected to be sub-
mitted to the President before this is printed (and just
after the Sydney conference), the tone of the Presi-
dent’s speech and the announcements from the Hotel
Australia all seem to suggest a certain concert in
timing and of thought if not of action.
That is all to the good, apart from the decisions
about Dominion borrowing in London, a matter
which would take care of itself on a released loan-
market even if no resolution had been taken in the
matter. The time is coming when the weight of Ger-
FINANCE
MINISTERS
"WHERE'LL YOU HAVE IT. BLOKES?"
man and Japanese production and export will be
reinforced by new mercantile-marine navies. And
provided the moment arrives when those countries
can secure guarantees of adequate raw materials in
certain industries, together with shipping and an entry
to particular large markets, all the unity of policy
attainable in the English-speaking world on trade and
finance will be needed to maintain control of world
currency and withstand the kind Of competition which
may grow up.
The position is well illustrated by a glimpse
at the investments in fixed assets in the United
Kingdom and Germany. These increased in value in
the United Kingdom from £1534 million sterling in
1949 to £2054 million in 1952, against an increase in
West Germany from £l2OO million in 1949 to £2144
million in 1952. With the Japanese already
engaged in a widespread campaign for export sales
in preparation for the expansion to come, it seems
tot the world in a few years will be a place in which
Unttsh Commonwealth survival may depend on con-
cert of and action, integrated development of
resources by hard work and a tough chanty-begms-
at-nome outlook.
Calwell Changes Step
As it has been generally accepted in political circles
for some time that the Federal general election will
be held in May or June, most likely the former.
Arthur Calwelf could hardly have been trying to sur-
prise his listeners when he broke the news recently to
a Melbourne radio-audience. He didn’t mention a
date, but said that the Government “would rush a
Federal election with unseemly haste” as soon as the
Royal visit was over, after they had exploited the visit
“to their own political advantage.”
The obvious implication of this subtle bludgeon-
thrust is that the election could easily be postponed
a few months, but the former Minister for Misinfor-
mation knows quite well that this is not the case; the
life-span of a Federal Parliament is strictly limited by
the Constitution. Section 28 provides that;—
Every House of Representatives shall continue
soonfer'^y y^e S Gover^or-Generai' >u * may be dissolved
mi • f D
This means ftat if the present House of Repre-
sentatives is not dissolved before June 12 next three
years from the date of its opening, it will automatically
expire on that date. In practice, Governments do not
wait for the expiry-date ; they seek a dissolution a few
months in advance of it.
Only one Parliament, the third, died the natural
death prescribed by the Constitution. Two, the fifth
and the nineteenth, were ended by a double-dissolu-
tion, and two others—the eleventh and twelfth—by the
defeat of the Government. The remaining fourteen
Parliaments were all dissolved on dates chosen by
the Government of the day. One had only a week to
run, another seven and a half months. The average
Parliament ended four months before the completion
of its allotted span, and on that basis the present
Parliament would be due for dissolution on February
12. The average time between the dissolution and
polling-day is five weeks, so it can be said that any
date after March 20 chosen for polling-day would
actually be later than usual. When it is realised that
the Queen will not leave Australia until April 1 the
hollowness of Calwell’s complaint becomes apparent,
This Royal visit is not a hastily-conceived trip
organised to fit in with election plans; in actual fact
the Queen, then Princess Elizabeth, set out for Aus-
tralia two years ago, only to abandon the tour when
the news came to her in Kenya that her father,
George VI, was dead and that she was now Queen
Elizabeth 11. But the story goes back further than
that, as the late King himself was to have made the
trip in April, 1949, but was prevented by the onset of
the disease which subsequently caused his death.
Perhaps Mr. Calwell is getting his fours and his
Governments mixed. The original invitation, from
which her Majesty’s trip really stems, was issued by
the “Labor” Government of which he himself was a
member, and 1949, like 1954, was a Federal-election
year.
The strangest thing about Calwell’s little radio-
chat is that he should complain about the imminence
of an election when, ever since his party went out of
office in 1949, he has been spoiling for elections,
beseeching elections and demanding elections.
As a prophet, Arthur’s principle is that it’s better
to be noisy than right. When the Chifley Government
was returned to office in 1946, slightly battered, he
crowed that it would remain in power “for another
ten years” and would win the 1949 election “more
sweepingly than we have won this one.” By Christ-
mas, 1949, he was rising above the sweepings, which
included four of his Cabinet colleagues, to forecast
that the Menzies-Fadden coalition would soon break
up, and from then on during the hostile Senate period
he was continually challenging the Government to
resign, foretelling its defeat if and when it should
do so.
The double-dissolution came, and the election
Arthur had been screaming for. Undaunted by the
electors’ second rebuff to “Labor,” he immediately
began again. Still on the broom-motif, he declared
that his party would have a “sweeping victory” at
the next election —i.e., the one the nearness of which
he now deplores. For the past two years, along with
Ward and Ashley and all the company of Evatt, he
has plugged this theme so assiduously that all hands
in the party considered it was all over bar allotting
the portfolios in the new “Labor” Cabinet.
For most of that time it has also seemed that the
electors had accepted it, too —along with the panic-
stories of a Menzies-inspired depression from which
Evatt and Calwell alone could save them. For 18
months by-elections and public-opinion polls reflected
the acceptance of this propaganda, but the Gwydir
result and the latest Gallup poll alike suggest that the
mischievous unemployment-lie has run its course.
This is the real reason for Calwell’s change of
tune over election-day. But there’s no change in his
general hymn of hate. On November, 1949, he told
a Gladesville (Sydney) audience, “If the non-Labor
parties are returned to power there will be unem-
ployment, destitution and poverty.”
Four years later when there is probably less
unemployment, destitution and poverty in the country
than ever before, he is still trying to peddle the same
story:
If Australians are foolish enough to return the
Menzies Government next May they will be voting
for more wage-cuts, longer hours and a pool of
unemployment.
The everlasting return to this exploded theme
reveals how bankrupt of ideas are the men at present
running the “Labor” party. “We’ll save you from
depression and unemployment” may be a good line
when hundreds of thousands of men are out of a job,
but it falls rather flat when there are no unemployed
to save. “Labor” not only needs new ideas and a new
outlook on society; it needs new leaders to preach
them.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Compulsion Dogfight
Compulsory unionism, as established in
N. S. Wales, had a sound showing-up last
week. The unions proceeded with great
enthusiasm, as soon as the new conscripts
began to roll in, to pluck the golden goose.
One of them demanded that an entrant
pay four years’ arrears covering a period
before he was dragged in by the scruff of
the neck under Mr. Landa’s totalitarian
ukase. The president of the N. S. Wales
Employers’ Federation said;
Some industrial unions are demanding;
substantial entrance-fees. Others are
demanding the payment of arrears from
persons not previously members.
The N. S. Wales Motor Vehicles Sales-
men’s Association entrance-fee was
raised from £1 Is. to £5 ss. from January
1. The union announced that the decision
had been made last October, and “had
nothing to do with the compulsory-
unionism legislation.” As for “arrears,” it
is illegal for unions to claim them from
new members. Such claims are their
lawless bluff.
Early in the week a cry rose from Mr.
Ernest Thornton that the Ironworkers’
Federation had cruelly refused him
membership, so preventing him from
earning an honest crust. It seems natural
that a union should not want as a member
a man who has recently been acting as a
commissar in a Communist country,
supplied by Moscow’s W.F.T.U, with a
large motor-car and a home, especially
when he had refused to come home and
face the music while he was being accused
of having conspired for Communist
control of the union for a long period
through wholesale forgery of ballot-
papers.
But Thornton has never been convicted
judicially of this offence, though the fact
was established that the papers were
forged while he and his fellow-Reds were
in control of the union. At the same time
the theory of Mr. Cahill’s legislation is
that a union must take anybody who
comes along and has a job in the industry.
If it didn’t, any industrial body would be
vested with the power to condemn any
man within its reach to starvation in his
own line of work, a power which has
enormous possibilities as a weapon of
political and other kinds of intimidation.
In fact, on top of the powers of unlimited
extortion and the right to maintain extra-
legal private courts (which are not open
to the public) to fine members for union
offences sometimes without even hearing
their defences, it would virtually establish
union dictatorship in short order.
The secretary of the N. S. Wales branch
of the A.W.U., a body which had begun to
intimidate non-unionists who might refuse
to join and assure them of dire punish-
ment to come, even before the bill was
passed, rushed to announce that his
branch had refused admission to 100
persons who had applied.
Whether these persons were dangerous
Liberals or just competitors of the
existing membership there has been
no telling. But the announcement pre-
cipitated a fight both inside the union and
between it and the A.L.P. executive. On
January 16 an executive officer (not the
secretary) announced that the union had
climbed down and would, if necessary,
alter its rules and constitution to admit
all persons eligible for membership. It
has no option legally, as it well knows,
but there were indications that the
interior of the union was like a boiling
pot over the weekend.
Lastly, the Government has been getting
in for its pound of flesh. The miserable
applicants who are granted the right to a
brand of shame in the form of a certificate
of exemption as conscientious objectors
have not only been automatically fined,
but the Government has been collecting
2s. 6d. a time for a certificate that they
have been—their certificate is the
equivalent of the yellow “J” which Hitler
made Berlin Jews wear on their arms ;
their brands as outcasts. Mr. Landa has
been forced to withdraw this extortion,
though he announces that half-crowns
already in hand are permanently grabbed.
The sooner the High Court decides on
the legality of this monstrous piece of
legislation the better. The more the
country sees of it, the more it shows
itself open to wicked abuse and
intimidation.
Calling the Red Bluff
The decision of the United Nations
command to release p.-0.-w. now in
neutral hands during the “armistice dis-
cussions” in Korea marks a welcome
changeover to the toughness of attitude
which is the only thing the Communists
understand.
The Chinese and North Koreans are
under a disadvantage in the matter,
since they have no means of reprisal
short of armed force. The 22,000 “Com-
munist” prisoners, who are in com-
pounds under the Neutral Commission’s
supervision, have no desire to go back
to their native lands ; they are prepared
to start running in the opposite direction
the moment they get the chance, most
of them having been forced into the
“volunteer” armies of the north.
The prisoners were due to be re-
turned to the U.N.O. armies for release
on January 23 if not desirous of going
home; but the Communists demanded
that they should continue to be held to
suit the leisure of Peking. The Indian
head of the Neutral Commission showed
a weak-kneed tendency to agree to this.
But General Hull, of the United Nations
command, announced that every prin-
ciple of human rights, for which so
many men had died, would be violated
if the prisoners were kept indefinitely
to suit the manoeuvres of the Chinese
Government and Moscow.
The Communists had thwarted every
attempt to convene a political confer-
ence to secure permanent peace, he said.
And to prolong the captivity of the poor
wretches who have been in the com-
pounds for up to three years or more
would be “unjust, unworthy and intoler-
able to free people.”
The Communists have protested, but
whether they will take action of any
sort remains to be seen. Their obvious
objective now is to keep the Korean
sore open without fighting.
No doubt the Berlin conference, due
to open on January 25, will discuss the
matter. The opportunity will arise
during the discussion on admission of
Communist China to U.N.O. And it is
to be hoped for everybody’s sake that
the Western Allies will be as firm there
as they are on the prisoner question.
The moment is close when the only
answer to Communist encroachment will
be resolute defiance under an ultimatum.
Every surrender or compromise only
leads to a new aggression.
One-way Compulsion
There’s an element of poetic justice in
the way the Cahill Government’s two
bright gifts to democracy—the Dog-collar
Act and the Press Gag—have rebounded
upon “Labor.” Both noxious enactments
obviously played a part in lowering the
“Labor” vote in Gwydir, and although
that was really the concern of the Federal
wing of the party it can hardly have made
for brotherly love within the movement.
The Press Gag, challenged at the first
attempt to act on it, fell at the Supreme
Court hurdle, and, although it seemed
from the judgment that a different
approach might be more successful, the
Cahills decided to leave well alone.
The Compulsory Unionism Act came
into force last week, and simultaneously
a first-class problem was presented to the
A.L.P. executive. While the Government
and union-leaders generally were stating
that they would give a reasonable period
of grace before prosecuting anyone for
not joining a union, the secretary of the
N. S. Wales A.W.U., C. T. Oliver, threw
a spanner in the works by admitting that
his union had been knocking-back would-
be members ; he himself had turned down
about 100. Asked for reasons, he said
that “the A.W.U. had always exercised
a traditional right to refuse membership to
anyone it did not want.”
As the A.W.U. was one of the prime
movers in instigating the Dog-collar Act,
which denies men and women their tradi-
tional right to make their own decision
about joining a union, Oliver’s pro-
testations are rather rich. The unions
can’t have their Christmas-cake and eat it,
too. The obligation to join implies also
an obligation to accept.
Cahill’s Minister for Labor, Abie
Landa, stressed this when the bill was
before the Assembly and he repeated it
on hearing of the A.W.U.’s action, men-
tioning that there was a penalty of up
to a hundred pounds for such a refusal;
he intended “to examine the reported
refusal.”
Meanwhile the party was going into a
backspin. Several union-leaders attacked
the A.W.U. for embarrassing the Govern-
ment, and at a Trades and Labor Council
meeting one delegate attempted to get the
matter discussed. He was ruled out of
order by chairman Shortell. The attempt
of E. H. McGrath to bring the question
up to the State executive was more
successful: he has charged Oliver with
breaking A.L.P. rules by publicly opposing
party policy. The A.L.P. executive is to
consider the charge on Friday, Big Boss
Dougherty’s latest word, in reply to a
report that his union had backed down
on the matter, is a direct denial and a
statement that only the general conven-
tion of the A.W.U. or its Federal executive
can change the policy of banning Com-
munists and Asiatics from membership.
Whether persons refused admission can
be classified by the A.W.U, as belonging
to either of those two categories has
not been disclosed.
The iron-curtain Mind
If the wish is father to the thought,
Queensland Premier Gair would like
to have the right to prevent Queens-
landers from leaving the State in the
same way as Communist Governments
force their people to stay at home.
Mr. Gair read an announcement that
a motor-manufacturing concern, starting
business in South Australia, was seeking
400 artisans from other States because
all artisans in S.A. were already in good
jobs. He denounced it as “intolerable
impertinence,” said the company was
trying to “poach” toolmaking and body-
building tradesmen from Queensland,
and expressed concern at its “unfair-
ness” to Queensland employers.
This leader of democracy in Queens-
land went on to say:' “If they [the S.A.
firm] are short of skilled tradesmen,
surely the correct procedure is to ap-
proach the Federal Immigration Minister
to see if he can obtain the additional
tradesmen from overseas, where there is
a surplus of such men.”
Apart from the fact that a firm wait-
ing to begin business would have to wait
a dashed long time if it did that, Mr.
Gair evidently opposes the union and
political “Labor” view that no immi-
grants should get jobs if Australians
want them. He believes that no employer
outside Queensland should be allowed
to offer a Queenslander better conditions
than he can get in Queensland, and that
Queensland under Gair is a far, far
better place than anywhere else possibly
could be.
Of course, South Australia hasn’t com-
pulsory unionism of the kind extant in
Queensland and lately foisted on
N. S. Wales. Nor has it the kind of
electoral system which ensures “Labor”
Government irrespective of the people’s
wishes. And it hasn’t Mr. Gair. The
reason why Communist countries won’t
let their citizen-slaves Visit non-Com-
munist countries is partly because Com-
munists know their citizen-slaves would
learn too much. Maybe Mr, Gair has
the same fears about South Australia.
As for the alleged “poaching,” Mr,
Gair, as a true leader of the workers,
ought to be glad that there is competition
for their services, because any entice-
ments must consist of better conditions
or no worker would have them on.
A Vamped-up Crisis
Wheat Board chairman Teasdale has
announced that he will make a “full
report on the wheat crisis” to the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council next Wednes-
day. What good that will do remains to
be seen, though Premier Cain, of Victoria
(which State is standing out of the stabi-
lisation plan), has hinted that Victoria may
change its mind after the A.A.C. meets.
What good that will do also remains to
be seen.
For the simple fact is that the “crisis”
amounts to no more than a temporary
slump in overseas orders, not in overseas
prices, for Australian wheat. The reason
is really that our best buyer, Britain,
having decided to get out of the dis-
credited socialisation methods of import-
ing foodstuffs, found herself with a surplus
of stored wheat which she promptly dis-
posed of to her wheat merchants. Britain
also, being fully aware of North American
wheat surpluses, refused to be bludgeoned
into the International Wheat Agreement
on sellers’ terms when a buyers’ market
had developed because of those surpluses.
That is the chief reason for the slow-
down of orders, and, since it is obvious
that Britain will soon eat its present stored
wheat, there was no need for anyone to
get in a panic over it. It was natural that
those who want stabilisation to continue
should promptly seize on this passing
phase to boost their argument. Natural,
too, that Dr. Evatt should come out with
the ridiculous assertion that it was the
fault of the Menzies Government in not
forcing Britain to join the I.W.A. —how
this could have been done he didn’t
specify.
On the price aspect there is no reason
to believe that world-price of “free”
wheat will fall below the I.W.A. price;
indeed, it is quite likely to rise. The real
problem is finding a way of storing what
wheat we have to hold until it is wanted.
As for the Wheat Board and stabilisa-
tion, with all they entail in Government
control, both are left like a shag on a rock
because the free world can only survive on
a basis of private enterprise, and the
moment the need for the war-time and
post-war adjustment controls ended all
Government-controlled systems of run-
ning industry collapsed. Australia could
keep Government control of wheat-pro-
duction, prices and sales in a sellers’
market. It simply can’t be done now that
the buyer calls the tune.
True to Form
“El Verdugo’s” reflections on some
prospective Royal functions:
In the matter of the Queen’s visit the Cahill
Government is excelling itself. Its shabby-
looking decorations, its muddle over trans-
port (which it proposed, until public opinion
forced a change, to freeze in Sydney as if the
atom-bomb had fallen on the morning of her
Majesty’s arrival), and particularly its arrange-
ments for the Royal tour of N.S.W. are all
true to form.
During the tours by car the Queen is to be
debarred from seeing the beautiful North
Shore and the people there from paying their
respects to her. More than two miles of her
drive will be through some of the most drab
slums in the city area of which the Cahill
Government is obviously proud, and whose
population has the advantage, under the strange
systems of election now operating, of holding a
bloc vote which can control the Sydney lord-
mayoralty and some safe “Labor” seats.
The Lord Mayor’s Ball, it appears, will be
attended by the newly-elected Communist
aldermen who have got in under Cahill’s new
municipal voting system. Distinguished and
loyal citizens will have to make way in the
Royal presence for these people.
In choosing those who should go to the
Queen’s garden-party—Government House had
little or nothing to do with it, apparently—the
organisers have produced an astonishing result.
Those who attend Government House func-
tions usually “sign the book” there once a
year as an acknowledgment of vice-regal hospi-
tality, and those who hadn’t —it is said within
the past six months —were left out. Any com-
plete stranger who did sign seems to have ac-
quired the right to go. What Security thought of
this arrangement is not on record. It amounted
to an open invitation to anybody who could
learn the procedure to invite him- or herself.
Of course, the good news got about, and
the friends of M.L.A.’s and civil servants lost
no time in making for the fount of honor. A
typist who heard the behind-the-hand
whisper, “Nip down the gate and write your
name and you’re in,” nipped down, and,
according to her story, wrote her name and
those of her family of ten, all of whom (she
told the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”) got invita-
tions. The people who normally get invitations
as a matter of course and who were dropped
in favor of the thrusters included a large
number of distinguished soldiers and persons
who have given their lives to public welfare.
Service gave nobody a claim, it would appear;
only “signing the book.” Inquiry showed that
one of the absentees will be the gallant fight-
ing officer who, on the fall of Singapore and
the internment of his superiors, took over
Changi Camp as a sequel to his fine leader-
ship in some of the greatest fights of the
Eighth Division, and by his determination and
organisation pulled his weary band of p.-0.-w.
through in an epic of fortitude and pride in
which his part probably saved hundreds of
Australian lives. The honorary secretary of
the greatest organisation of military officers in
Australia was dropped. He was overseas dur-
ing the fateful six months. The councillors
of Royal Societies will not be at the party or
be recognised in any way, though no doubt
Mr. Aubrey Doyle would have been if he had
been at liberty, since he could not have failed
to hear of so good a thing.
It seems about time N. S. Wales adopted a
new motto; “The Devil take the hindmost’
would be a good one.
Natural Gas
“Petro” : The effort of Anzaas to
carry out its missionary work for science
by making itself intelligible to the man-
in-the-street is laudable. Any sallies
outside the strict limits of controlled
observation should, however, be avoided,
as they are liable to be misinterpreted by
those without scientific training.
A case in point occurred at the
Anzaas meeting in Canberra when a
leading exponent of Australian geology
put forward his personal point of view
on the controversial question of the
prospects of the Sydney Basin as a com-
mercial producer of natural gas.
Such a statement, used out of context,
might be highly misleading and might be
dangerous if taken by some company-
promoter and inserted (as it is almost
certain to be sometime) in a share-boosting
prospectus.
Show Where We Stand
“In the ACT”: Some enterprising
cartographer could do Australia a ser-
vice by drawing a map of the world as it
would appear from a point far above
Darwin. The Americans have used maps
with the North Pole as the central-point
to bring home to complacent citizens the
nearness of Russia by the shortest route,
and a map centred on Darwin might
shock Australians into realisation ot
what the possible developments in south-
east Asia could mean to this country.
That sinister bushfire glare on me
map’s horizon, the Indo-Chinese conflic ,
seems to many of us as distant as a small
((Continued on next page)


blaze three mountain-ranges 'away, for
example, but a strong northerly could
bring it raging towards us, taking in the
rich areas of Siam, Malaya and Indo-
nesia on the way. From recent reports
they are all uncertain firebreaks, even
Malaya, where our firefighters are still
on the job. And what protection today is
the 400-mile wide Timor Sea?
Perhaps the outbreaks in Indonesia
itself should interest us more, being
closer to the centre of our map, although
less important by world standards. Some
real fighting is still going on in Sumatra
and the Celebes, and the “Republic of the
South Moluccas” is still trying to con-
vince the U.N. and the world, mostly
through its 14,000 refugees shivering in
Holland’s winter, that it is continuing
to resist Djakarta domination. These
small and apparently unconnected fires
may not be Communist-inspired, but they
are all helping to weaken the central Gov-
ernment, which is so far unable to con-
trol the rebels in west Java, and is still
failing to provide either stable leader-
ship or the essentials, admittedly diffi-
cult, for a settled Constitution and a
settled election throughout the republic.
This weakness is being exploited, to a
degree not understood in Australia, by
the Communist minorities in the Indo-
nesian trade-unions.
The picture is made more disturbing
by the almost complete blackout of ob-
jective news from Indonesia. There are
several reasons for this, not the least
being the extreme difficulty of ascer-
taining the facts, which can be appreci-
ated only by those who have made the
attempt on the spot.
This is the background against which
the Dutch are reported to be doing a
spot of fortification in or close to Dutch
New Guinea, and an Indonesian Cabinet
Minister, tongue in cheek like his Presi-
dent, has been talking about the use of
force to “take” that disputed area. Aus-
tralia, which properly supports the Dutch
claim for retention of the western half
of that vital island, has recently estab-
lished links with Holland for its eco-
nomic development, but both Australians
and Dutchmen disclaim any joint plan-
ning or armed services discussions for
its defence.
Isn’t it time this “diplomatic” stand
was abandoned and both nations openly
acknowledged their joint responsibilities
and obligations? The few but prominent
Indonesians who are vocally belligerent
on the subject, and the virulent propa-
ganda being fed to Indonesian school-
children, provide ample reasons for firm
and straightforward action on our part.
Most Indonesian statesmen understand
the position and know that Indonesia
has enough on its hands without bother-
ing about the western end of New
Guinea. Even if, for political reasons,
they give lip-service to Soekarno’s trucu-
lence they would be relieved if the issue
were settled and forgotten.
Anyway, let us have a map showing us
where we stand —and let us tell the world
calmly and trenchantly the reasons for
pur stand.
POLITICAL POINTS
“The Queen arrives in Sydney ; greeted
by Mr. Cahill The Queen arrives in
Casino; greeted by Mr. Cahill The
Queen arrives in Lismore; greeted by
Mr. Cahill... .The Queen arrives in
Lithgow ; greeted by Mr. Cahill.... And
so on for Broken Hill, Bathurst, Wagga,
Katoomba.” Whose tour is this?
• •
Arguments - which - all - ordinary-
citizens - would - dearly - love-to-witness
department: The one between the Aus-
tralia House heads and the State Agents-
General after the A.-G.’s had won the
Duke of Norfolk’s approval of their claim
for precedence in nominating Australians
to the Royal enclosure at Ascot.
• •
“Labor” policy in N. S. Wales and
Queensland is against the suspension of
quarterly adjustments to the basic wage.
Yet, unless Actors’ Equity has got its
script wrong, the “Labor” radio-stations
in Sydney and Brisbane have applied to
the Arbitration Court for suspension of
adjustments in respect of their employees.
• •
Premier Gair has been complaining
because a South Australian concern, un-
able to get all the labor it requires nearer
home, has been seeking tradesmen in the
eastern States. What is he worrying
about? Surely after 30 years of bene*
ficent “Labor” rule no Queenslander
would dream of swapping his workers’
paradise for the harsh conditions of Tory-
governed South Australia?
Anyway, what has become of that
unemployment-pool Gair and other
“Labor” leaders have been complaining
about?
• •
The executive of the A.C.T.U. is at
present discussing the best way of
approaching the Arbitration Court for
the reintroduction of quarterly basic-
wage adjustments. This attitude suggests
a belief that adjustments will always be
“up.” Will the unions be equally in<
terested if the index-figures begin to
show a downward tendency?
• •
The batch of malcontent migrants who
have been making nuisances of themselves
over hostel-rents tried to drag Chancellor
Butler into their squabble with the
Commonwealth Government. R.A.B.
“regretted he could not see their deputa-
tion,” whereupon Boreham, their noisy
spokesman, came out with the familiar
line that “Mr. Butler appeared more
interested in getting Australia’s oil and
uranium than in putting British migrants
on their feet.”
Evatt minor backed him up with a
sneer at both Menzies and the Chancellor.
He said the P.M. had “victimised the
migrants by evicting them from the hostels
and by preventing them from raising
finance to buy homes,” and suggested that
Butler “could at least make just a fraction
of his mythical millions available for his
homeless kinsmen.”
If mythical millions are going to be of
any use Clive’s friends have only to wait
a few months; then, if “Labor”
prophecies are right, Evatt major will have
plenty to distribute.
• •
Queensland A.L.P.’s Central Executive,
which is the real Government of the
State, has decided “to abandon the State
Labor party’s objective of ultimate total
prohibition of intoxicating liquor.” It
said any party which fought an election
on such an issue would be “annihilated,”
If ever the Queensland Labor party fights
an election on a fair-dinkum electoral
basis it can expect much the same fate.
• •
The New England New-State Move-
ment, uplifted by last month’s heavy vote
in favor of it, has sent invitations to
politicians, councils and “major organisa-
tions” to attend its convention at Armi-
dale on February 26 and 27. It’s to be
hoped Dr. Evatt was included. Though
his party favors abolition of all States
and “unification” of Australia under a
single Parliament, he went through the
Gwydir electorate last month saying he
supported the New England aspirations.
Seeking to justify his union’s action in
refusing to admit some of the applicants
sent its way by compulsory unionism,
A.W.U. secretary Oliver said that they
could join other unions or seek exemp-
tion. He didn’t explain how a person who
has attempted to join his union can then
seek exemption on the grounds that he
has a conscientious objection to joining a
union. The Act recognises no other
grounds.
• •
Molotov has been reported to have a
heart attack. If true it will at least prove
that Russian Foreign Ministers have
hearts.
• •
Papers in Brisbane and Melbourne have
been publishing messages from Sydney
saying that the N.S.W. Cabinet is deter-
mined to introduce night-shopping on
Fridays and abolish Saturday-morning
trading. Well, if it does so its revenue
from public transport will be cut to pieces,
as a Sydney closed on Saturday mornings
would more than offset the extra bit
picked up on Friday nights.
• •
For 4s. a year each South Australian
school-child can in future be insured
against accident from the moment he
leaves home for school until he returns.
Cover is extended to attendance at school
DOG-COLLAR NOTWITHSTANDING
“None of y’r dogs allowed on this bus, Mister.”
functions. It sounds like a scheme other
States could adopt.
• •
Dr. Evatt’s wild assertion that the
Menzies Government caused the alleged
wheat “crisis” won’t bear examination.
When that Government extended the life
of the Wheat Board for another three
years it said that, if the growers decided
by ballot that they wanted stabilisation
to continue, the Government would legis-
late for another five years of it. But the
“Labor” Premiers (Evatt’s allies in poli-
tical matters) bucked about the home-
price and Victoria’s Cain stood out. Since
no Commonwealth Government can legis-
late for wheat-stabilisation, which entails
a fixed home-price, without the unanimous
consent of the States there was no point
in taking the ballot. That ought to make
it clear where the blame lies; though
“blame” suggests that stabilisation would
be a good thing, which is doubtful.
• •
An American scientist has forecast that
in five million years’ time human beings
will possess, among other things, a brain
that will not be able to keep a secret.
Five million years! Surely it won’t take
women as long as that to conquer the
earth!
• •
Probably on the principle that if the
worker can get enough beer he won’t
worry about more important things,
Queensland “Labor” Government “is
looking to Queensland breweries to
increase production.” On the question of
nationalising the breweries or controlling
them through the Liquor Commission, the
party’s executive thinks it would be
“politically unwise.”
• •
From the Australian Christian Student
Movement conference at Armidale
(N.S.W.) comes a resolution condemning
national-service training as “morally de-
grading,” and protesting against time
wasted “building paths and gardens and
weeding ovals.” There seems to have
been some confusion of thought on the
subject, as the conference is reported to
have sent Menzies and Evatt copies of a
resolution “outlawing” national-service
training, and at the same time asked the
authorities to ensure that trainees are
trained properly.
It is to be hoped that the second part
of the resolution represents the real feel-
ing of the students; “outlawing” smacks
too much of the jargon of the phony,
“peace” movements which also condemn
national service.
• •
Hungry is the polite word for it. Some
unions in Sydney have been requiring new
members to pay alleged “arrears” of sub-
scriptions—in some cases up to three or
four years. Legally the newcomer need
only pay one quarter in advance.
* •
Tasmanian Supreme Court is consider-
ing the plea of Tattersall’s employees that
the trustees of George Adams’s estate have
no power to transfer the sweep to Mel-
bourne. Counsel for the plaintiffs contend
that under Adams’s will Tatt.’s must
remain a Tasmanian business, and that if
it is transferred to Melbourne the only
thmg that will continue will be the name,
Fhe capital will not be the same, the
licence will not be the same, and the
place and goodwill will be different.
The trustees maintain that the
employees have no legal right to chal-
lenge the transfer as they are not bene-
ficiaries in the true sense of the word.
* *
Still another unexpected twist to the
compulsory-unionism story. Not so long
ago, when the Australian Iron and Steel
Co. at Port Kembla dismissed some em-
ployees on the grounds that they were
Communists, the Ironworkers’ Federa-
tion proclaimed that even though the
men were Reds it would fight to the
death for their right to a job. Now it is
reported that the federation has refused
membership to its former Communist
boss, Ernie Thornton, and will call its
members off any job on which he is
given employment.
Having once got rid of Thornton, the
union’s desire to stay rid of him is under-
standable, but that is just one more thing
the “Labor” movement should have
thought of before adopting compulsory
unionism
# #
What opportunities the A.B.C. has been
missing ! In Rome, through “a tech-
nical hitch,” thousands of television-
viewers were enabled to eavesdrop on a
Cabinet crisis which led to the resigna-
tion of the Government. With all this
talk of line-tapping at Canberra surely
it is time some technical hitch tangled-
up the Parliamentary broadcasts with
little snippets of gossip from the Cabinet-
room. Better still, from Caucus-room —
or even from the bar.
• •
Cahill’s announcement that a further
£2 million was now available for work
on Warragamba Dam was welcome
news, but it immediately prompted the
question of where the money came from
in view of Cahill’s whingeing at the
Loan Council talks last year. This has
been answered in part; Dr. Parr, Liberal
M.L.A. for Burwood, revealed at the
weekend that N.S.W. Government sub-
sidies to hospitals had been reduced by
£942,909 for the current financial year.
Apparently as the Commonwealth Health
Scheme puts more money into the coffers
of the hospitals the Cahill Government
cuts down its own contribution.
• •
Sugar shipped from North Queensland
ports up to the end of December totalled
754,221 tons, easily a record and a
quarter of a million tons more than for
the same period of the previous season.
Federal Minister for Labor Holt claims
that the abolition of sugar-rationing in
Britain was made possible by north
Queensland’s increased output and im-
proved handling-rate. This season’s
record crop is expected to be bettered in
the coming year.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
T FEEL I should immortalise this
barber, though I am sorry that for
fear of libel I can’t say exactly where
he did the deed —it was a country town
not very many miles from Canberra.
The day was scorching, and so was the
barber. He took up a snow-white towel
to wrap round the back of my neck;
thoughtfully mopped his own steaming
red face with it; and wrapped it round
the back of my neck. —“Mac Hoots.”
♦J* <£♦
“Bo” : There are those who sneer
at the novelist who brings a long-lost son
and a father together in the middle of a
Central African jungle or who straightens
out the tangle of his plot with the con-
venient final juxtaposition of two unre-
lated characters of almost magical like-
ness of features, voice and mannerisms.
Let them now all sing dumb, for an ex-
ample of coincidence in real life far
more astonishing than has ever been spun
in the brain of any fictionist has lately
“I always carry spares .”
occurred. I refer, of course, to the
simultaneous discovery by the backroom
boys of at least four major oil com-
panics of separate scientific treatments
of petrol which all possess the same
properties of ensuring longer engine-life
and greater engine-performance.
A A
*
“Macnell”: It was one of the most in-
tensely-dramatic parts of “The Cruel
Sea.” For months the British corvette
had been searching for her sub-surface
enemy, while around her, in convoy after
convoy, ships had been blown to death by
torpedoes. At last she had herself blasted
open her first U-boat. Glaring at the
shattered remains of their target, one
British officer spits; “How do you like
that, you bastards! ” An immediate titter
ran round the Sydney “State” audience,
as though they were suburban matrons
at a tea-party titivatingly shocked by this
“ That's enough for today!”
use of a naughty word. It completely
ruined the drama of the scene.
■tj* <£♦
“Melbn”: Melbourne City Fathers,
to surprise the Queen and Duke, are re-
ported to be contemplating confronting
the Royal couple with a large replica of
Windsor Castle painted on a backdrop
curtain to be hung at the Exhibition
Building for the Royal Ball. If it’s the
same one that was draped across the
organ at the Town Hall for a previous
function it should strain the Royal cour-
tesy to the utmost. A more ordinary
bit of stage scenic-painting hasn’t been
seen since the old Grand Canal vanished
from His Majesty’s, Melbourne. I dare-
say the Bumbles have as good inten-
tions as the native brass-band in pre-war
days in Borneo, who regaled a visiting
Japanese admiral and his officers with a
spirited rendering of the well-known
yoshiwara ditty, “Jon Kena,” under the
impression that it was the Nipponese
national anthem.
» ♦ »
“Hoppy”: Just before the Nips tossed
it in we were heading our Liberator base-
wards from an all-day haul around
Celebes. Butch, the navigator, looked
from his table at the sleeping W.Op. 3ft.
away and thought if amazing that Ditty
could pass out so peacefully with a whop-
ping headset clamped to ears, and hence
constantly filled with wakeful din.
He adjusted throat-mike and control to
the big set, then, with a wink at Engines,
he whistled an odd assortment of bars
of the kind dear to all Sparks. In a flash
Ditty sat erect, adjusted phones and
reached for the dials —only to hear the
signals fade. He dozed off, but was soon
roused again, whereupon he turned to
Butch to shout “Tve just picked up weird
sigs. on our frequency —shall I tell the
skip?” The nav. shook his head, then
put himself on the air, observing pencil
on port-table transcribing noises into
letters on one of those large books which
go with Marconi apparatus. As W.Op.
read back “Ditty is dotty” a wistful film
formed on his eyes. He gazed about the
flight-deck until he focused on the pursed
lips of Butch. Next day Nav. sported a
stitched head-wound received on ops.,
and Ditty was explaining to the store-
man how one of his spare coils in a steel
box became damaged under a peculiar
electrical fault.
•iji
“X.S.”: A Melbourne University pro-
fessor goes out to Flemington every
Saturday and never looks at a race. He
reads a book on political economy, has a
bet on the last race, and usually wins a
fiver.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: I knew the Army was teach-
ing all so/ts of trades nowadays, but I
didn’t realise how far the process had
gone until I read in the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” that when the latest batch of
national servicemen went in camp “Army
cracksmen showed the trainees some trick
shooting.” I presume this was just a
warming-up course preparatory to initiat-
ing the rookies into the finer points of
safe-breaking.
“R.L.”: Our letter-box had an aper-
ture less than 6in. long, and was so shal-
low that even a medium-sized Christmas-
card projected. So we built anew one,
2ft. deep, its opening yawning a good
12in. We set it up with pride and joy,
and it was the object of grins from every
passer-by. Now Melbourne dailies are
full of the imminent posting of invita-
tions to the City Council’s Royal Ball;
they report that the invitations measure
lOin. by 9|in., and that the P.M.G. is
making special arrangements to ensure
their being delivered in pristine condi-
tion, un-dog-eared. But no one in our
street believes that the outsize letter-
box was primarily intended to contain
uncrushed quarto envelopes bearing
rejected manuscripts.
“Enn Kay”: An esoteric younger poet,
who would like it to be thought that she
learned to read from a copy of T. S.
Eliot, and proclaims ignorance of all
writers pre-dating that master, was met
at the door by her mother on arriving
home. Mother had found a line of verse
nagging in her mind, and couldn’t place
its origin. “But I thought it was Kip-
ling—l went right through Kipling and it
wasn’t his. Then I thought Tennyson
perhaps —or Wordsworth? But it wasn’t.
So then I thought you would be sure
to know.” The esoteric one shuddered
at the suggestion. “But,” continued her
mother, “just when I thought I’d have
to give up, I suddenly thought ‘Why, I
believe my own daughter wrote that line.’
So I got your cutting-book, darling, and,
sure enough, you did!”
❖
“Sister Ellell”: At the end of the war
we nursed Diggers in the same hospital
as some English Sisters nursed R,N. men.
The flicks were in their ward one night
and I sat by the bed of an emaciated lad
in a plaster-cast. As a greeting I said,
“How are you tonight, Jack?” He re-
plied, “That big Sister, she lifted me out of
me cast by herself, and then she washed
me. I feel fair wore out —it was like
hosin’ down a ’orse after a twenty-mile
trot, if y’ take me meanin’.”
*t* ❖ ♦>
“Euroclydon”: Proprietress of a
private hotel, my friend has an amazing
gift of remembering names and faces.
It pays off, too; former guests are always
flattered at being instantly remembered.
“But how on earth do you recall them?”
I once asked. “By the color of their
eyes,” she replied. “Now that man who
could hardly believe that I remembered
him after five years—his eyes are a re-
markable shade between blue and green—-
Antwerp-blue in the paint-box. I’d know
him again anywhere.”
♦2* ❖ *
“Sackville”; Umbrellas seem to take a
sardonic pleasure in making a fool of me.
There was the time a lady accidentally
hooked me by the waistband of
my pants and took me in tow.
And the night when, racing for
a train, I climbed through a
railway fence, scrambled aboard,
pranced down the well-filled
carriage to a seat, then dis-
covered I was carrying the
crook of a handle on my fore-
arm—the rest of the brolly, pre-
sumably, being stuck in the
fence. But a recent wet day pro-
duced the most demoralising experi-
ence of them ail. Halfway to the station
my gamp blew inside-out. First-aid on
it was out of the question. There was
nothing else to do but furl the thing and
get wet. Ever tried hurrying through
a deluge with people on verandas staring
at the poor mentaliy-deficient bloke who
carries an umbrella, but, although he is
getting drendhed, won’t put it up?
*1* *i* *i*
“F.S.”: A correspondent of a Mel-
bourne daily, indignantly commenting on
the fact that the Royal visitors are to be
invited to a command performance of an
Italian opera, asks, “Where are our Aus-
tralian composers?” The answer is that
they are either in England, America or
Europe. Lambert, Clutsam, Benjamin,
Clifford, Hutcheson, Grainger, Boyle and
Gough may be mentioned, among many
others. The late Fritz Hart, of course,
didn’t get further than Honolulu, but, as
far as I know, no first-flight Australian
composer is to be found closer than 10,000
miles from the headquarters of the A.B.C.
*1*
“Pud”: I’ve seen ceilings beautifully
decorated by Landseer, but we now have
a mural which beats, ’em all. The design,
color-scheme. and materials used would
please the contemporary art-fiends im-
mensely, but it’s given me a headache.
Wife decided that she would not make a
plum-pudding this Christmas, but instead
buy one in a tin. The instructions were
simplicity itself —just pop can in boiling-
water for half-an-hour. Half-hour up,
and in went the opener. Then the fun
started. The can sat in the middle of the
kitchen-table giving an excellent imitation
of a Rotorua geyser, while I stood by and
laughed—till I cast my eyes ceilingwards.
Sprayed, as though with a paint-gun, was
half the pudding all over the best part
of the ceiling. No doubt the flies will
enjoy the re-decorating. Did I mention
that all the water in the pan had boiled
away?
+j* *
“Kanimbla”: One citizen who acted
in a suspicious manner at a public meet-
ing was less fortunate than “Spokeshave’s”
wife when she picked up that brick to
stand on as the Prince of Wales drove by
(B. 16/12/’53). Sometime in the early
1920’s Communists burnt a Union Jack
ceremoniously in Sydney Domain, and
beat up a handful of ex-Diggers who
tried to rescue it. The next Sunday more
than 100,000 citizens crowded the Domain
at a protest-meeting. The Corns, didn’t
have the sense to keep away, and a mob
of indignant patriots stormed their plat-
form. One attacker seized the red flag
and held it aloft, while he searched his
waistcoat-pockets for a box of matches.
A later arrival on the field, thinking him
a Gomrade trying to rally his brethren,
knocked him stone-cold with as neat a
straight left as I’ve seen.
SACRIFICE
“In selecting Porfirio Rubirosa, Barbara
Hutton’s new husband, four times, married,
and co-respondent in two divorce cases, as
the best-dressed man, the president of the
Custom Tailors’ Guild of America said the
best-dressed men in the U.S. had set styles
by sacrificing comfort to look well dressed.”
It’s hard to see one man assessed
When annual praise is handed out
As A 1 copper-bottomed best
Of the year’s men in clothes, or out:
Ladies and tailors both propose a
Toast —“Porfirio Rubirosa!’’
But what the Tailors’ Guild implies,
I do not know, I cannot tell,
In speaking of “the sacrifice
Of comfort” made to looking well:
Is that why women hold him close —a
Sympathy for Rubirosa?
Ah, if they knew what pangs I suffer
Getting infrequent suits off hooks
I might become a demon-lover
Followed about by amorous looks
And letters classed as “curiosa,”
Like this Porfirio Rubirosa!
But should Porfirio find the pace is
Faster than comfort-lovers choose,
I wouldn’t mind exchanging places
And squirming in his hand-made shoes:
What husband, strange to wearing
trousers,
But would exchange for Rubi-
ro user’s?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T HAVE been told what linguists some
New Australians are, and how quickly
they learn to use the language, not only
grammatically but idiomatically, I didn’t
believe it until I struck this example. A
sozzled Australian, accompanied by a dog,
got on to a tram and was quietly but
firmly told by the N.A. conductor that
he and his canine couldn’t travel together.
The passenger got off with his dog, and in
a voice charged with meaning, said: “You
know what you can do with your tram!”
“Heavens ! Is THAT all they Wear?"
The N.A. looked puzzled. Then his face
brightened. “If you do mit your dog vot
you told me to do mit my tram you can
come back on der tram.” —“Nakh.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cauboy” : Way back in lanuary,
1948, The Bulletin reported that the
Maoriland band of Diggers who called
themselves the Kiwis were in their second
year of occupation of the Comedy, Mel-
bourne, and looked like being there for
another 12 months. They were, and
returned for another season which looked
like ending in annexation of the theatre.
They repeated the same feat in every
other Australian capital and in New Zea-
land. The curtain was rung down for
the last time in Auckland on lanuary 16.
Their eight years’ continuous run as a
theatrical co-operative is almost certainly
a world-record. The Kiwis suffered so
few casualties that the company at its
finis was much the same as that which
first came to Melbourne in trepidation,
fearing that Melbourne wouldn’t take to
a company with no women in it. But
lohn Hunter showed Melbourne that a
man could be a more perfect lady.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne is going
very crook at its new Dean, the Rev.
Babbage, An Englishman, the Rev. B.
signalised his assumption of office by
warning Australians against indulging
their “mania for touching and prodding
distinguished people” when the Royal
couple arrive here. He also remarked
on the national habit of gawking, and
what a painful sight our slums would be
for the Queen, who presumably has never
seen the slums of London, Birmingham
or Manchester. I haven’t noticed any
of my friends prodding distinguished
visitors, but I have noticed that Londoners
are the greatest gawkers at Royalty in
the world. As for our slums, I can’t
understand why the Dean and fellow-
clerics didn’t take their coats off long ago
and clean them up. Wasn’t it the Dean’s
Master who said that we should teach
by example, not by precept?
& &
“M’Lou”: Ballerinas, surprisingly, are
among those directly affected by high
wool prices, especially those for superfine
lamb’s-wool. Their dancing-tights are
made of it.
*l* ***
“H. 8.”: Snake-yarns, fish-yarns, and
now big-gun yarns. Recent Societeers
have credited gunboat Protector with 6in.
armament. The Navy List for October,
1922, gives the details:
Cerberus (late Protector)—Gunboat —
920 tons, I.H.P. 1641. Guns: 2 —4 inch,
2—12 pdrs., 4—3 pdrs. Tender to Flinders
Naval Depot.
The “Pro,” was renamed Cerberus when
the old turret-ship of that name became
Platypus 11, storage hulk for the sub-
marine-depot, early in the ’twenties.
Reminiscences of Protector’s cruise to
China during the Boxer Rebellion
omitted the famous anecdote. Protector
entered harbor gallantly flying the signal:
“We’ve come to do or die.” To which
the callous flagship replied, “Take on the
mail-run.”
♦J*-
“Feng-Shui”: It isn’t only the toy-trade
which has cashed-in on the space-man
obsession. Melbourne “Argus” is reprint-
ing H. G. Wells’s 50-year-old classic The
War of the Worlds, and it must be arous-
ing nostalgic memories in lots of people
who, like myself, read it on its first appear-
ance. I started in rather a blase mood.
The security of the South Australia of
those days wasn’t menaced by atom-
bombs or flying saucers, and even a world-
war on this planet seemed as remote a
possibility as a war between planets.
Nowadays it’s easy to visualise creatures
that are all brain and no body and which
can manufacture extraordinary engines of
destruction. But it says something for
Wells’s ability to make words live that
in those early days I got caught up in his
Martian invasion before I finished the
first chapter. Still, I didn’t feel he was
a prophet who had seen into the future.
But my cousin did; he prepared for the
new era by jumping out of a second-
story window with his father’s umbrella,
The umbrella turned inside-out, and he
sprained his ankle.
A A
v *** v
“Pip Tok”: During the siege of Vicks-
burg, Mississippi (B. 30/12/’53), the Con-
federate defenders brought into action an
ironclad secretly constructed of scrap-iron
to deal with Yankee wooden gunboats
bombarding the town’s defences. After
"We're not going in. You might get ideas."
an initial success the ironclad ran aground.
Then the Yanks allowed the news to
trickle into Vicksburg that they, too, had
built an ironclad. This was really a
wooden contraption with dummy guns
made of painted logs. The turret was one
of those single-chambered buildings which
stand in splendid isolation in the back-
yards of country towns. The “ironclad”
drifted downstream in a fog, and bluffed
the Confederates into abandoning small
craft they had captured in one of the
tributaries of the Mississippi. When the
Confederates learnt how they’d been
tricked, they christened the blockading
gunboats “the privy navy.”
❖ ❖
“Lim-Limbu”: Lusby’s Bulletin story
of flying in New Guinea recalled another
dangerous landing. The pilot of an air-
freighting company had to pick up the
firm’s unpopular and pin-pricking ac-
countant. The passenger climbed appre-
hensively into the seat in front of the
pilot in the Moth, hoping for a peaceful
trip home the half-hour’s flight
developed into a switchback night-
mare, the delighted pilot throwing
the plane around venomously and
the unpopular one hanging on,
pale and grim, as they approached the
home-drome. Pilot came in to land in a
whistling side-slip, but, 100 ft. up, account-
ant lost control. Head over the edge of
the fuselage, he discharged his air-sick-
ness. Difficult to say who was the un-
happier as they made their hazardous
landing—violently-ill passenger or luck-
less pilot, clawing desperately at his
goggles for clear vision.
•£♦
“Warrakoo”: “Crunch’s” restaurant ex-
periences (B. 30/12/’53) took me back to
the time when the Atherton Tableland
was a series of red mud-roads connecting
the various cow-and-corn towns. Arriv-
ing at one after a five-hour slug in a
Model “T,” we descended on Nick the
Greek, loudly demanding roast-beef.
Silently Nick shook his head. “How
about corned-beef then?” Again the sad
shake of the Hellenic poll, followed by,
“Mistake, for one week no train, for two
week no butchaire. Ros-bif she no more
is ; corn-bif she never was. ’Ow you like
your eggs boil? Tight or loose?” We
settled for loose,
*l* ♦> ♦>
“Pawang”: Reported from New York
that a safety-spanker has been patented
which is claimed to be a boon to parents
who tend to lose their tempers with
their offspring. Thp weapon is shaped
like an oar, is 18in. long and is hinged
where the blade widens from the shaft.
To vary the force of the whack for big
boys, little boys and very naughty boys,
it can be set in three positions; if any
bottom is hit too hard the spanker auto-
matically goes out of action and at the
same time sends out a warning signal
The theory is that the angry parent has
time to cool-off because he has to reset
the mechanism before making a fresh
start. As it is modern scientific opinion
that it is useless to spank a child
anyhow, the patent-office must be
as unscientific as a teacher I had
who thought that his cuts would hurt
more if he bound three canes together,
The trebled canes didn’t sting a quarter
as much as the single—but that we didn’t
tell him.
* ❖ ♦>
“E. & 0.E.”: Probably all Victorian
writers made more use of curling lips
and rolling eyes than we do (B.
23/12/’53). The things that George
Meredith’s heroines could do with their
eyes! Laetitia Dale “with a romantic
tale on her eyelashes” is perhaps the best-
known example. Others had “eyes rolling
to the ceiling.” Still other eyes “rolled
aloft,” or suffered a “shadowy drooping
of the eyelids.” Once “Dorothea’s eye-
lids fainted.” And then “Clara shut her
eyes and rolled her eyeballs in a frenzy
of unuttered revolt.” Most of these clever
people were women, but one minor
character. Lord Mountfalcon, “had fine
full eyes, and by merely dropping the
lids he could appear to endow them with
mental expression.” A good effort.
■ijf
“Craiser”; Australian modernists seem
to have thought of pretty well every de-
vice to get away from the tradition, but
it took a Singapore physician, Chia Whea
Cheong, to think up this one. The in-
digenes of that perpetual oven are at the
moment mad on three-dimension, but
long before this Mr. Cheong introduced
it into painting—not in the old-fashioned
way favored by Titian and Velasquez, but
by combining modelling with the laying-
on of pigment in his accurate delineation
of dogs, cats, fish, birds, flowers and in-
sects, which stand out so startlingly from
their background that you can almost
smell them. He uses sandalwood, plasti-
cine, and dental-cement. He sold-out at
his first exhibition and now fetches 15
guineas for his 3-D’s, which he can turn
out at the rate of 20 a day. The method
is as old as the Great Wall of China ;
Buddhist monasteries- are full of such
built-up pictures of the life of the Buddha.
But Mr. Cheong’s are “art,” like the tin-
and-wire sculptures in the recent Mel-
bourne “Herald” open-air art-exhibition.
Australian modernists will no doubt copy.
& ❖ *
“Maje”: “Ek Dum” can add two more
to his circle of Service admirers. In the
mess two young officers were griping
about the difficulty of knowing what to
revise in the vast field covered by a forth-
coming examination on current affairs.
An Old Hand cast this pearl from his
armchair: “Remember that the exam.-
paper was set some time ago. Therefore,
the important events of two or three
months ago should be studied ; and the
best place to find out what was current
then is in the back-numbers of this” ; and
he waved his current Bulletin. Out
came the back-numbers, and for the next
few hours, assisted by the 0.H., articles
and pars, were combed and sidelined for
revision. A spate of intensive reading
culminated a few nights later in two
jubilant souls drinking a noisy toast to
their now-favorite current-affairs writer.
FINAL INSULT
“Criticising the ‘dull and oafish’ portrayals of
policemen on the films, a police superintendent
said: ‘They always have large boots, they lick
their pencils, they have red faces and they
drink beer.’ ”
Caricatures — that’s all you’ve ever seen
upon the screen;
Whether he be a plain John Hop or
surge,
No social graces
Are owned by any member of the Force.
Also, of course.
He stumps around in boots almost as
large
As violin-cases.
You’ve often wondered maybe why his
dial
Is such a trial
To him, laughter-provoking, as it
ever is.
To movie-goer;
Its rubicundity’s mostly the cause.
See, too, his paws :
Ham-like, grasping a baton — that’s
his biz.
Born domineer !
No look of smartness ever lights his eye.
He just stands by
While crime-reporter or the private D
Clears up the mystery.
A murder-motive he could never plumb.
Why, he’s so dumb,
Triangle he would vaguely take to be
Some figure of history !
On how to track down clues he hasn’t
a clue.
A large tattoo
He’d never even notice on the “chist”
Of murder-victim.
But to the Force such things might seem
as nix,
Seen on the flicks.
Beside this: with a pot of beer in fist
They will depict him !
Those Keystone cops, they’ve all got
blackened lips
Through sucking tips
Of pencils, which is just one of their
arts
To aid slow thinking.
No Gables they, but Frankensteins —a
shame !
Ah ! Who could blame
Real cops being narked that their
screen counterparts
Should be shown drinking/
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Mueller Medal to James Arthur Pres-
cott, Professor of Agricultural Chemistry
in Adelaide, Director of the Waite Agri-
cultural Institute and prolific contributor
to scientific journals on soil-fertility and
classifications and the principles of crop-
production. One of Australia’s most dis-
tinguished scientists in his field, Prescott
is a Lancashireman, educated in England,
France and Germany, who, before taking
up the Adelaide professorship, had eight
years as supervisor of field experiments
at the Bahtim experimental station in
Egypt.
• •
With the Commercial Bank for just
under 50 years. South Australian mana-
ger for the past six, H. H. Rodd reckons
that’s enough. W. J. Edwards comes
down from Toowoomba (Q.) to allow him
out to grass.
• •
When the Queen and the Duke arrive
at Melbourne Town Hall the Royal
Standard will be unfurled on the dais by
William Jackson, Town Hall lift-
attendant. He is also the Jackson, V.C.,
of Gunbar, near Hay (N.S.W.), who won
his cross at Armentieres, June 25, 1916,
when he rescued a large number of
wounded men and captured prisoners in
circumstances of the gravest danger. He
was under 19 at the time, and the
youngest V.C. in Australia.
• •
Murray Silverstone (here Bindered) is
a lawyer-graduate of New York Uni-
versity and one-time staff-man in the
District Attorney’s office —which could
explain his fluency of speech. He is
also president of 20th Century-Fox
International —which could explain the
stage-like gestures of hands and face
accompanying the verbal delivery. In
these parts on a visit to his company’s
MOVIE-MAKER
Australian headquarters, Silverstone is a
man of small build who’s held down some
of the biggest offices in the U.S. film-
world—with Cosmopolitan Productions,
United Artists and, before Fox got hold
of him, with his own production-
company. He was United Artists’ rep. in
Australia for a time in the 'thirties.
• •
“Macnell”: Gone up to four-ringed
captain, Victor Alfred Trumper Smith
has had more to do with air than sea.
Apart from time in a couple of cruisers
(in one of which, Canberra, he saw more
than enough of sea when she sank off
Savo), he has been in carriers—unusual
for an R.A.N. man. A qualified observer
(as well, of course, a qualified executive-
officer), Smith was in carrier Glorious,
and when Hitler pulled the lanyard was
in the famous and much-sunk Ark
Royal—D.S.C. After the Canberra’s loss
he went back to flat-tops, this time in
Tracker, one of those escort-carriers which
used their aircraft to sool destroyers on
to U-boats in the Atlantic. A staff-man
in the Normandy business, and later with
the British Pacific Fleet, after the war
he held the important post (in our newly-
winged Navy) of Director of Naval Air
Organisation and Training. On the sea-
manship-side of the air-side, he’s been
second-in-command of carrier Sydney.
• •
Gone to Brisbane as Professor of Eng-
lish at Queensland University (lately
senior-lecturer in the subject at Sydney
Uni.), G, H. Russell, produced in New
Zealand and a product of Cambridge.
With his monicker on the title-pages of
several publications dealing with medieval
and Renaissance literature, he’s working
at present on an edition of the C-text of
Piers Plowman, in collaboration with
Professor A. G. Mitchell, of Sydney.
Russell is preparing also an account of
the structure of current Australian Eng-
lish.
Short of a boy-Cornwall V.C., the
most coveted prize a cadet-midshipman
can win is the Queen’s Sword. Graeme
Tilly, a youngster from Cottesloe (W.A.),
didn’t quite pull it off, but, against hun-
dreds of cadets of the Royal Navy, he
was runner-up the other day in England.
In the R.A.N. since 1951, Tilly, while
at Flinders, carried off, among others,
the grand aggregate prize, first prize in
seamanship and second in navigation.
He’s not letting all this turn him aside
from his chosen course —engineering.
• •
From “Ek Dum”:
The death of Chester Wilmot is the greatest
loss Australian history has suffered for many
a year. He had the temperament of a true
historian —detached, observant, rich in curios-
ity, and with a retentive memory and excellent
powers of assimilation. His work on Tobruk
was the best effort on the North African cam-
paign, universally praised and accepted. Every
Australian soldier of the Middle East was
looking forward to his volume of the official
war history dealing with the same operation.
His training was in Ernest Scott’s lecture-rooms
in Melbourne University, and he matured in
Europe in a period when high command and
high politics had become synonymous.
It was a curious turn of Fate that Wilmot
fell foul of Blarney while reporting the New
Guinea campaign for the A.8.C., with the re-
sult that he was declared persona non grata of
the command, and went over to the 8.8. C.,
thus transferring from a local to a world area.
And in Europe Field-Marshal Montgomery
recognised his great ability and opened the way
to the material from which The Struggle for
Europe was written, to make him one of the
world’s best-sellers and to establish him as a
basic authority on the inner politics and
strategy of World War 11. He was only 42
when he died in the Comet crash on his way
back from Australia, where he had been tak-
ing the lead in the round-the-world Christmas
broadcasts. Another famous Australian cor-
respondent, Noel Monks, military correspon-
dent of the London “Daily Mail,” narrowly
missed going to his death in the same aircraft.
• •
Coincidence played a heavy part in
these Comet crashes. Chester Wilmot
was articled as a young man to Trevor
Oldham, leader of the Victorian State
Opposition, who was killed in one last
year.
• •
“Uramao”: Spending his leave in his
native New Zealand, Dr. Harold W.
Larsen, chief-economist to the Latin-
American section of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment, states there is no ground for the
belief that America will dominate other
members. He says that, while the U.S.
holds 35.13 per cent, of the capital, its
voting-strength is 30.81 per cent.; Britain,
next-biggest holder of the bank’s capital,
has a voting-strength of 12.76 per cent. ;
members of the British Commonwealth
combined have 25 per cent, of the votes.
Larsen won his M.A. and B.Com. at
Auckland University College, for a time
was in the economic department of the
Bank of N.S.W., and got his doctorate in
economics at London University. He
served in the Royal Navy in Hitler’s show.
• •
The solid first-fruits of Dr. Cunning-
ham Dax’s reign as chairman of the new
Mental Hygiene Authority in Victoria is
to be a reconstructed Royal Park Mental
Hospital, one of the best of its kind and
far in advance of anything seen in Aus-
tralia. To make it such, its superinten-
dent, Dr. John Cade, is off to Britain
shortly to study modem conditions which
enable patients to engage in painting,
weaving, pottery and other occupations.
One Royal Park innovation will be a
hairdressing saloon —the knowledge that
he can maintain a good appearance is
often a big factor in a patient’s recovery.
Another will be psycho-drama, in which
patients act parts similar to their own
situations and those of other patients ;
the idea is something akin to the situation
of the King in “Hamlet,” when he looked
at the play-within-the-play, and saw
himself as his own conscience saw him.
Cade was trained at St. Vincent’s, Mel-
bourne, was superintendent at Bundoora
and has been superintendent at Royal
Park since 1951.
• •
Sir John McKenzie, founder of the
chain-stores which are Woolworth’s
strongest rival in N.Z., has made a gift
of £1 million to the Dominion for
charitable and educational purposes.
This latest tops a long list of benefac-
tions. Born in Victoria, started in busi-
ness in Melbourne, the younger McKen-
zie left with the 3rd Victorian Bushmen’s
Contingent for the Boer War, and after
that tried his business-hand in the Fern-
land. One of his two sons was lost in
War II while with the N.Z, Air Force.
Changing his roots from Queensland
Director of Agriculture to a similar
directorship of Tropical Agriculture,
D. O. Atherton is the first to fill the new
post. It takes in supervision of crop-
and pasture-work in the far north of the
State, and of experimental stations at
South Johnstone, Mareeba and Wrothem
Park.
• •
Rising 84, Canon Edward Mullen Col-
lick has just celebrated the 60th anni-
versary of his ordination. After two
years in a London curacy, he came to
Coolgardie in 1894, in the midst of the
great gold boom, and remained on the
’fields for 30 years, except for the in-
terruption of two wars. In 1901 he was
in South Africa, padre of the sth West-
ralian Contingent. Before he left
Boulder for this service, his parishioners
gave him £250, most of which he “blued”
on a Christmas treat for aborigines, and
in paying the cost of an operation for a
woman in poor circumstances. He saw
active service again in the Kaiser’s War,
and was a padre on the home front in
Hitler’s. A stalwart man’s man, the
canon won the affection of all classes,
and is regarded as almost a patron saint
by natives of the interior. He left the
goldfields for St. John’s, Fremantle, of
which he was incumbent for 26 years. He
now lives in retirement in Perth.
• 9
“Zake”; Oskar Straus, who has died
in Vienna, his birthplace, at 83, after
having adopted in turn French and
American nationalities, was one “s”
short of the more famous Family of the
Waltz, Johann senior and junior, also of
Vienna, and of Richard, of Munich,
who will most likely project the name of
Strauss further into the future than any
of them. Oskar, who dropped into a
natural satirical style early and who in
his later stage works was quick to make
use of the then new dance-music forms
such as the fox-trot and the “shimmy,”
was never able to match his contempor-
ary Johann, jnr. (whom he outlived by
54 years), in the matter of the waltz, but
he more than held his own when it came
to the operetta, his chief medium. Of
the continuous stream which he turned
out from 1904 to 1926 the best known is
“The Chocolate Soldier,” adapted from
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.”
• •
Lusby on Leahy:
Explorer, goldfinder and pioneer New
Guinea grazier, Dan Leahy is tall,, plump,
smiling and 41. His short, adventure-
packed story is New Guinea legend. Dan’s
snug house roosts, Kosciusko-height, in the
Western Highlands, looking down through
ever-drifting clouds on the Mt. Hagen airstrip.
In Dan’s near-fields are red cattle, horses and
the white dots of sheep. In an outhouse
native women squat at spinning-wheels and
looms, -weaving blankets from home-grown
wool. Butter churns in the dairy and natives
tend gold-sluices.
Born in Toowoomba (Q.), 18-year-old Danny
tailed elder brother Mick into gold-plushed
Edie Creek in 1931 and worked with Guinea
Airways and among the Bulolo dredges. In
1932, with Mick as leader, he began the senes
of gold-seeking explorations which carried him
on to the heart of New Guinea’s unknown
highlands. Typical of Dan’s footslogging was
a trek over the range to the Jimi River—down
the Baier and Gai Rivers to the Gai-Jimi junc-
MINER
tion, and back up the Jimi to recross the
divide into the Wahgai River. This par. is
being written at Mala, their crossing-point.
Nowadays ’planes puff a bit crossing those
divides.
About the end of 1933 Dan found gold at
Mt. Hagen—there were times when arrows
flew. The Leahys found and scaled Mt. Giluwe,
Papua’s highest point. In 1936 Dan spent his
gold on a world trip which took in Japan,
China, Manchuria, Russia (“That b —— tram
to Moscow!”), Germany (Olympic Games),
England and America. With the N.G.V.R.
in War 11, his interests now run to agricultural
development. He has clearly shown what can
be done in that direction.
Judged by artist Coventry to be the
best-dressed member of the South Aus-
tralian Parliament, Baden Pattinson
(herewith for judgment) has something
more than good looks behind his recent
appointment as Minister of Education in
the S.A. Cabinet. He passed his matric.
at 15, but had to wait a year for admis-
sion to the law course at Adelaide Uni-
versity ; and, although qualified for the
Bar at 18, he could not be admitted till
he had come of age. Mayor of Glenelg
MINISTER
for three years, he represented Yorke
Peninsula in the Assembly between
1933-38, was Government Whip in the
Butler Government for most of that
time, and, as M.L.A. for Glenelg, has
been the same rounder-upper for Play-
ford’s team.
• t
“Uramao” : World-known New Zea-
land-born conductor, Warwick Braith-
waite, now conducting the New Zealand
National Orchestra, is just back from a
flying visit to America. He’s not favor-
ably impressed with the power of union-
ism in those parts: he was barred from
conducting there, the Musicians’ Union
reckoning his stay was too short. With
his contract expiring next August, Braith-
waite is considering an offer from the
National Opera Co. of Australia for a
two-year engagement as musical-director.
• •
A link with Sir Baldwin Spencer was
broken when a Spencer pink camellia
went up in smoke along with the 17-room
mansion of J. Liston at Ferntree Gully
(Vic.). Camellia-lovers all over Aus-
tralia were interested in this plant; a
seedling bought by Sir Baldwin as a pure
white but which turned out a sport and
produced the wonderful pink flower
which has since gone all over the world.
Over 1000 plants were propagated from
cuttings from this one bush, and tens of
thousands —possibly millions —have been
produced from them. Another loss in the
fire was the Moonee Valley Cup which
Liston won with his horse Don Pedro
in 1947. He is a son of the late J. J.
Liston, who was generalissimo of the
anti-prohibitionist forces in the Victorian
liquor-referendums of the ’twenties and
’thirties.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 57, at Olinda (Vic.), Dr. Douglas John
Thomas, one of Australia’s most distinguished
doctors and hospital administrators. He served
in both world wars, commanded a hospital in
the Middle East, was in charge of the Heidel-
berg Repatriation Hospital, and chairman ot
the Cancer Research Institute.
At Mount Gambier (S.A.), Ing de Vald,
well-known to theatregoers of the last genera-
tion. A concert- and operatic-singer, he ap-
peared for many years at the famed Tivoli
Gardens in Copenhagen, whence J.C.W.
brought him out to sing the leading role m
“Turandot” at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
After a career in London he came back to run
a theatrical agency in Sydney.
In New York, Charles Zachariah, one-time
district Public Trustee in Wellington (N.Z.).
A native of Christchurch, he was a son of the
Jewish rabbi there.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 51, Father John
McKay, who left as chaplain with the first
Enzedders for Egypt in War 11. Back home
he became chaplain at Wigram aerodrome and
gained his pilot’s licence. A notable achieve-
ment was his crossing of the Southern Alps
from Hokitika to Christchurch. He was a
skilled sculptor and carver, and an outstand-
ing athlete.
Aubrey Webb, widely-known wool-classer,
stud-breeder and judge of Merinos and for
more than 20 years a councillor of the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association. For long a judge
at inter-State and country shows, Webb was
presented in 1930 with a trophy, the response
in contributions to which was so enthusiastic
that it was given in the form of a writing-stand
surmounted with the figure of a ram worked
in pure gold.


COPING WITH THE PROBLEM.
“On the morning of the Queen’s arrival in Sydney the city will be closed to private motor-traffic, cabs, trams and buses after 7 a.m. The landing ceremony, to which
many guests have been invited, will take place at 10.30 a.m. The transport and accommodation problem will be acute.”


ABORIGINALITIES
r T'HE cargo on our war-time inter-
island flight included a brigadier
with a bad stomach-ache, a canoe and
a huge parrot. After take-off the brig.,
minus boots, lay down and lost interest.
Cocky bit large chunks out of the canoe,
broke loose and flew screeching up and
down. No one was anxious to tangle
with it. Our S.O.S. prompted the pilot to
climb, his theory being that lack of
oxygen plus violent exercise would soon
fix the bird. At 20,000 ft. cocky was still
going strong, but we’d had it. As we
were coming in cocky alighted on the
side of the canoe near the brig., and,
sidling along biting out chunks of wood,
reached for a big toe. The brig, sat up
with a yell. What he said daunted the
bird, and they remained glaring at each
other as we touched down. When we
stopped an agitated pilot came to apolo-
gise. The brig, grinned. “Forget it, old
boy. I’ve lost that blasted stomach-ache
at last. Must have been the shock.” —
“Gui.”
♦ ♦ • »
“Mackville” ; A Maltese market-
gardener found his neighbor’s fowls
spending a lot of time on the soil that
covered his potential pea-crop. He
complained bitterly, but was informed
that the birds were merely ridding the
earth of noxious insects. Then a shot-
gun roared on the Maltese territory. The
“Okay for sound!"
Slav neighbor came racing and demanded
compensation for a defunct chook. The
Maltese, doing a hornpipe or something,
scattered seed-peas from the bird’s shot-
torn crop and howled for recompense for
a lost harvest. Only the timely arrival
of the local cop prevented an interna-
tional crisis—but the embers are still
smouldering. Meanwhile, less than five
miles away, Mac, another New Aussie,
had almost identical trouble. He did not
act impulsively. In casual coversation
he expressed a hope that the fowls on
his drills did not eat seed-peas. The
native-born owner laughed with con-
fident assurance his chooks never
touched ’em. Mac was obviously relieved.
“Aye, I’m glad o’ that, y’ken,” he said.
“But Ah’m no wishin’ to feed bi-rds so
Ah mixed poisoned peas wi’ the seed.”
That afternoon his neighbor was mend-
ing the holes in the fence.
“Sack”: Don’t believe it’s easier to
swim in salt- than in fresh-water. As a
slow swimmer I always feel that I’m
moving much easier in fresh-water than
in salt. The reason is that fresh-water
offers less resistance. Salt-water’s buoy-
ancy comes from density, and den-
sity retards movement forward as much
as downwards. Whether added buoy-
ancy is an asset to an experienced swim-
mer is doubtful; it’s when he’s merely
keeping afloat that salt-water earns its
reputation. Any normally-built man
can float on his back for an indefinite
time in salt-water; but in brackish or
fresh-water his feet gradually sink. The
average woman, however, can float
equally well in either. Evidently the
feminine avoirdupois is balanced more
centrally.
“Baksac”: To discover what salt can do
to water it is merely necessary to grab
the handle of an electric shocking-coil
with a wet handkerchief. If you get a
mild kick, dip the hanky in a brine solu-
tion and try again—it’ll boot you out of
the room.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Hanko”: Fritz, seeking advice, asked
the boss for a good mixing to “gon-
grete his garish.” “Aw,” the trump told
him, “three to one is the shot, an’ sharp
sand if y’ can git it.” “Sharp?” asked
Fritz. “Yair,” said the boss, “not
smooth, water-worn stuff.” “An’ two or
three pounds of sugar with it,” I shot in.
“Sugar?” “Yair,” I said, “gives her a
sweet finish.” Later on, Fritz waddled
down to where we were putting in a
run-over. “Dot mix vos goodt,” he
said, “For sharp sand I did use groundt
glass and stone-dust mit cement six-in-
two.” I daren’t ask about the sugar,
for Fritz could be violent with prank-
sters. But he fixed me with a steely-
cold stare. “Ants I reckon vill chew
mein gongrete to bowder, so 1 says no
sweet finish, und gifs der sugar to Emmy
to make mit dampson yam.”
* * ♦ ♦
“C. Coral”; My wrinkled old Torres
Strait friend Dau, of Boigu, used to tell
me of many portents, including the “Sign
of the Blue Fly.” One occasion on which
the Blue Fly was always looked for was
when the braves, bedecked with paint and
feathers, were about to go headhunting.
A necessary preliminary was the making
of “zogo,” with ceremonial observances
centring round a big dark stone called
“miseeri.” Scrapings from a human skull
were placed on top of the stone, which
was anointed with a mixture of leaves,
flowers and thick coconut-milk ; then with
incantations miseeri was solemnly turned
in the direction of the proposed expedi-
tion, the zogo-man chanting: “Stretch
forth your hand, O miseeri. Give us aid
to get many heads. Go with us and with
us return!” As the chanting ceased, all
eyes watched eagerly for the appearance
of the Blue Fly. If it came circling round
with myriads of its fellows, it was a
sign that the raid would be successful; its
non-appearance was a bad omen. The
sacred stone, miseeri, generally accom-
panied the expeditions ; it was placed in its
own special canoe, in charge of the zogo-
man. “Sibooee Pooee,” where the skulls
were hung on return, was a big wild-
almond tree on the old zogo-ground (or
“kwod”) where the tribes met in con-
clave ; and where the young fellows went
through their initiation ceremonies. A
copper plate attached to its trunk informs
visitors of its associations.
"How much the two-seater ?”
“Gravelsnatcher”: Those stiff
dungarees (B. 16 /12/’53)? Only place
I’ve seen them really appreciated was on
road-gangs in the Westralian wheatbelt.
Napping granite and diorite was hard on
the shins, which were bombarded by
splinters travelling at supersonic speeds.
With ordinary trousers a bowyang—just
a cord tied around the leg below the knee
to make the trouser stand out from the
shin —offered some protection. But the
good old dungaree stopped all but the
larger pieces.
*• ♦ ♦
“Kelms”: For over a century
Westralians have been admiring the bright
blooms of the Christmas-tree without any
serious attempt at cultivating it. But
migrants, who don’t take these things
for granted, have been gathering the seeds
and planting them. In most cases that’s as
far as they’ve got because the tree is a
semi-parasite, and although the seeds will
germinate the seedling dies quickly unless
it can fasten on to, and feed from, the
root of some host plant. In the bush
the host is usually another tree.
Christmas-trees are being grown in Perth
now. The seeds are germinated in
potatoes, on which the seedlings can feed,
and planted in lawns or wherever there
are grass roots. With a healthy lawn to
feed on the trees will grow and blossom
almost as well as in the natural state.
♦ ♦ * *
“Broadway”: Horses have what are
called bridle-teeth located well back in
the jaws, and if they can get the bit in
front of them they’ll take a terrific
strain. Racehorses and trotters are trained
to make their best efforts under a firm or
tight rein. In a race a horse must realise
that his rider or driver has perfect control
or he will falter. He’ll respond to a
slight increase in pressure on a tight rein,
where a sudden tug would unbalance him.
Once drove a trotting stallion in a heavy
dog-cart. For five miles I tried to hold
him to a steady pace, and the harder I
pulled the faster he went. I braced my feet
against the front board and hung on, and
we rattled along at a 2.18 clip with the
traces slack. I gave in first, and as I
relaxed my grip he slowed. Later I learnt
how to drive him at my pace; but when-
ever a trotter that’s carrying my money
is driven with a loose rein I think bitter
things about its driver.
** * *
“Villefair”: For a full hour the
travelling gang of wheatlumpers had
been whooping it up —and gulping it
down—at the Commercial. The timber-
cutters also having come in for their
Saturday-afternoon spree, the little pub
was crowded. Suddenly a loud voice
rose above the jumble: “Any wheat-
lumper here think he can fight?
Dramatically there was silence—tense,
vital, expectant. Half-a-dozen pairs of
eyes turned quickly on the big, red-
haired young fellow who had been lean-
ing on the bar. For a long pause he
stood, sturdy shoulders stiffened,
schooner half-lowered; then he chose
to ignore the question. Conversation
broke out again, but an undercurrent
remained in the atmosphere. Presently
the vbice once more rang out. Bluey
stared across the bar towards the unseen
challenger. “Some mug lookin’ for
something,” he grunted, but took no
action. The hubbub was just getting
back to normal when the challenge
came again. Bluey flung himself around
and ploughed a way through the crowd.
A little wiry bloke was waiting. “You
the best man amongst the wheat-
lumpers?” he asked. Bluey loweringly
vowed he’d adjectively soon show any
sawed-off, squint-eyed . . , The little
cove grinned delightedly. “Good,” he
enthused, “Now you just relax — we’ll
soon get a timbercutter! ”
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Sister Ellell”: The “wet” was upon
us, the patients in the A.G.H. were defi-
nitely off their food. One boy, sopping
wet with perspiration from the effort of
being sponged, viewed the prospect of
breakfast with no great relish. I said to
him “I think the supply of Red Cross
asparagus has run out, so that leaves only
goldfish. Will you try and eat them,
laddie?” As he did not refuse, I took it
as assent, and as I gave him the plate he
said “Gawd struth. Sister, y’r stomach fair
comes in and out with the tide, don’t
it?”
» * ♦ •
“Mat’s Mate” : “Choicest bit o’
skirt I ever sighted,” Mat said, “was at
Old Junee.” I stared at him. She
must have been a wonder to make him
look at her twice. “Don’t know where
she came from, but it was the night the
pub got burnt down and there she was,
in the crowd, lookin’ on. Gripes, was
she a beauty?” He fell silent. So did
I. The spectacle of him ruminating
over a girl was too much. “I was doin’
a bit o’ fencin’ out towards Reefton,” he
went on. “An’ the followin’ week I
was kind of restless. It was hard to be-
lieve, y’ know.” “Yair,” I said, “I
reckon it was.” “Anyhow, one night I
couldn’t stand it any longer, so I set out
an’ tramped six or seven bloomin’ miles
into Old Junee, and” “She was
gone,” I said. “No, but the flamin’ pub
was still burnt down, so I had me tramp
for nothin’.”
* * * ♦
“Narumee”: If Australia has flourish-
ing slate-quarries (B. 6/1/’54) it is all the
more incomprehensible that so much
hideous corrugated-iron, which acts as a
radiator in summer, and retains no
warmth in the winter, is used to roof
houses. Slate makes attractive and inde-
structible fences, beautiful paving for
gardens, tiles and hearthstones for fire-
places, and tubs for ornamental trees.
In Cornwall the old slate floors are
lovingly cleaned with milk, which brings
out the blue coloring, and then polished
with bees’-wax. At Delabole, the famous
slate-quarry which has been working since
Elizabethan days, and is now 400 ft. deep,
produces (besides blue-grey slate) a
range of natural colors, including copper,
green and purple. No Cornish housewife
would consider making her pasties
anything but a slate pastry-board, which
is cheaper and less cumbersome than
marble, and which, unlike wood, never
warps.
THE RIVER OAKS
Tall, dark and taciturn oak-trees.
Which way did my cattle go?
I know you know,
For they camped here two days ago;
Their still-fresh dung is all about your roots;
But rain that caught me unaware.
Unsheltered, yesterday,
Has washed their tracks away,
And only you can say—but will not say—
Which way they went.
Last night when the light breeze
Drifted white clouds across the gibbous moon
I heard you cry, and croon
Your ancient plaint; whisper significantly
“ ’Tis he, ’tis he; there, there, he lies down
there,
Who cut our sisters down, when he first came,
To pitch his tent.”
Your needling voices threaded the night air,
Recriminatory, crying me shame.
While high up in the dark, cold range.
Dingo, Nature’s unloved unloving child.
Cried of the hunger of the homeless lost,
The aching isolation of the wild.
That knows no change.
A mopoke tried the night tentatively.
Questing the hill with inquisitive hoots,
While restlessly I tossed,
And watched your dark forms brooding
sombrely,
Etched out of the nacre of the sky
Beside the shining creek that bears your name.
Tall, gloomy, reticent oak-trees.
Which way did my cattle go?
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


XT’S many a long year ago, but
it’s still the best example of the
bush-telegraph I ever struck. ’Twas New
Year’s Day, the Murray was too low
for boats, and all Euston had gathered
and peered anxiously down the Mildura-
road, whence Beecher’s horse-wagon
was expected. In early afternoon a
motorist on his way to Balranald
brought *word that Beecher’s wagon was
stuck in the sand by the Reindeer-gate,
about 18 miles out, with a broken turn-
table. Whereupon a stream of sulkies,
buggies, horsemen, pushbikes and cars
headed east. When we got there the
breakdown was surrounded by blokes
we hadn’t seen for months —they’d come
from all along the bends between Euston
and Tapalin, and that stretch of river is
90 miles long. But how the deuce did
they know that Beecher was broken-
down at Reindeer and that his load was
mainly beer for Euston? —“Old-timer,”
* * * *
“Beroo”: It could have been that
middle-aged corpulence may have taken
its toll, or that a multi-course feed of
frogs had interfered with its wind, but
certainly the big red-bellied black sur-
prised in a newly-planted canefield at
Ayr (N.Q.) wasn’t a good advertisement
for ophidian stamina. Joe stabbed
viciously at each thrown clod that landed
near him, but within a minute, and after
no more than 20 or so clods had been
thrown, he was “blown” and could
scarcely lift his head. The ironbound
heel of a No. 10 settled his hash, almost
without protest.
“Archaen” ; Kava isn’t a fermented
liquor (B. 30/12/’53). It is made from
the tough, woody roots of a pepper plant.
Piper methysticum. The active principle
acts as a mild nervous stimulant similar
to caffeine in coffee. It is cloudy, with
a flavor like peppery soapsuds. Drinking
it after meals is a social ritual. To those
used to it a half coconut-shell of the stuff
merely stimulates the mind; over-indul-
gence makes one dopey, unsteady on the
legs and produces, in time, a skin-rash.
Early missionaries tried to ban it on
principle, and, almost alone among Poly-
nesians, the Samoans refused to give up
kava-drinking. In Samoa it was con-
tinued with all the ancient ritual, with
the Taupo or village hostess serving it to
the chiefs in order of rank. When the
missionaries lost their grip, the Tongans
and Fijians revived what to them is a
pleasant and harmless custom. The
Marquesans, on the other hand, gave up
kava—and took to opium supplied by
Chinese traders or to the fermented
coconut-palm toddy which some fool
showed them how to make. Results
were disastrous.
••••••
“Pip Tok”; According to my not-so-
rich uncle from Fiji, kava (B. 30/12/’53)
acts like a punch in the solar plexus,
except that it is not painful. It leaves the
imbiber clear-headed but incapable of
movement. When propped-up in a sit-
ting position, with his back to a con-
venient wall, he can carry on an
intelligent conversation, but the next
morning’s hangover is fearsome. Uncle
wanted me to prove it—l stayed with the
beer.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Lake Tabourie, South
Coast (N.S.W.), is crossed by telephone-
wires which sag down towards the water.
The spot immediately beneath being a
favored place for fishermen to ship oars
r and cast a line, the wires are generally
festooned like a maypole. This holiday
season an outsize hook hung lower and
more prominently than the rest. It was
bad luck that George should make a mis-
cast that hooked his barb on the other.
Then the tug-o’-war began. George
wasn’t going to cut off a good trace and
length of new line. He pulled strongly.
The hooks remained grappled. He put
hifi weight into it; his line fairly
“‘ Choking' it wasn't much good—so I just tried ‘ sparking ’ it."
twanged. The phone-wire began to look
like a gigantic bowstring with an arrow
drawn to a head. I found myself ner-
vously wondering what penalty would be
inflicted for the breaking of a phone-
wire and leaving the ends submerged in
a lake. Suddenly there was a sharp re-
port, a hissing swish, and immediately an
anguished howl from George. But you
can be lucky; for a week George’s upper
arm bore a neatly-etched bruise shaped
like an imperfect question-mark—the
catapulted hook had struck flat-wise.
* * * *
“Emel”: Lifelong horselover though
he was, the old chap has to concede one
virtue to the new tractor. It is “a blasted
fine thing for dragging away a dead
horse.”
“Bridget”: Peetatchees (B. 6/1/’54)
also haunted my childhood. For years
my grandmother had a particularly
vicious one imprisoned in the drawer
which held chocolates and biscuits.
Several lurked in the orchard, the fate of
a child caught among the fruit on unlawful
occasions being too harrowing ever to be
detailed. The main tribe, however, dwelt
in the tall gums along the track from the
farm to the near-by township. Their main
mission was to lie in wait for the lonely
night traveller. Springing to his back,
scaly legs would be twined round his
neck, horny little hands clasped over his
eyes, and the unfortunate one ridden
blinded through the bush till daylight
brought him exhausted freedom. Any-
way, that is what they used to do to old
"I’m just trying to buy some oil shares at the Stock Exchange , pet.
Can you hear the noise?”
Dan, the cowman, on his return trips
from monthly visits to town. Admittedly,
his condition on the following morning
bore a strong resemblance to his miser-
able state on the dreadful occasion when
we saw him cast forth in shame from
Donohue’s pub. Be that as it may, Dan's
morning-after explanation, earnestly given
and shudderingly believed, was always
the same, “Miss Bridget, me dear, thim
black divils of Peetatchees had me cot,
and rode me to death entirely, so they
did!”
* * * *
“Zake”; Tim of Cetina, a Dalmatian
owned by E. Seery, of Kingsford (Syd-
ney), has a record which will take some
beating. In 1947, at nine months, he
won the best-puppy-all-breeds award at
Sydney Royal Show, and he has won
prizes at every Show since. On a point-
score basis the 50 challenge prizes he has
won at kennel-club and country shows
would rate him an R.A.S. champion at
least five times over. One of his sons was
a challenge-winner at last year’s Sydney
Show. Tim is out to knock spots off all
other contenders for his belt next Easter,
and a daily five-mile perambulation helps
him retain his symmetrical lines.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: But would that detached
swinglebar (B. 16/12/’53) throw all the
weight on to the mouth of a bolting
horse? The crupper and breeching
would still take a great deal of the weight,
especially if the side-straps had, as usual,
been carried around the shafts before
being buckled through the metal guards.
* * ♦ ♦
“Swelpme”: It was a wild, windy
night, and we were camped by a creek
just down the hill from a little rural
church. When the moon nudged aside
the racing clouds we could see the tomb-
stones gleaming whitely in the church-
yard. Old Ted, my mate, would insist on
telling ghost-yarns ; I wasn’t enjoying ’em.
He was chuckling at my obvious ner-
vousness when the sound died in a
horrible gurgle in his throat. He seemed
to clamber to his knees, but got no
farther; his eyes staring over my head
and beyond; the moonlight showing an
expression on his face that froze me to
my swag. I got the terrifying impression
that he craved to get up and run, but
just couldn’t make his legs act. With a
mighty effort I managed to pivot around
and face the horror that was paralysing
him. Then I, too, saw it—and felt my
heart bump against my tonsils. A white-
shrouded spectre was struggling and jerk-
ing to pull itself out of a grave. Sud-
denly it was free, and bearing down on
us with a weird rising-and-falling action.
The queer sound I could hear was com-
ing, I discovered, from my own teeth.
I’ll never know whether we would have
sat there and let the horror descend on
us if it hadn’t suddenly disintegrated—
the sheet of newspaper flying past our
ears, the tall, chopped-off blackthorn-
bush continuing down the slope, end-
over-end, now standing on its butt and
waving its prickly arms, now bouncing
springlike off its brambly top.
* * * ♦
“Koreelah”; Although gnamma-holes
might be the result of the action of wind
and water, as some Aboites have
claimed, I’ve seen positive proof that the
natives of Queensland’s sou’-west, at any
rate, knew how to cut or grind away
rock to provide water-storage. It was
shown me about 35 years ago by my
uncle, who spoke the Warrego dialect,
and who had been a great friend of one
of the old men of the tribe which in-
habited the country round the head-
waters of the Ward River. A gourd-
shaped hole capable of holding several
gallons, it was carved at the lowest point
of a large rock-table which shelved
gently into a gorge; narrow channels
cut in the flat rock led to the opening,
which was only a few inches wide and
was covered by a fiat stone to reduce
evaporation or use of the water by ani-
mals. I was told that there were similar
“blackfellows’ wells” at many other
places throughout that district; their
location was always kept a close secret
by the natives, except in the case of the
few whites —like my uncle—whom they
regarded as one of themselves. He, of
course, was breaking no taboo in pass-
ing the knowledge on to me.
* * * *
“Prop”: For “Warrabulla” fully to
appreciate the joys of bog-snatching (B.
9/12/’53) he must be nursemaid to a
bunch of cross-grained jumbucks when
the temperature is well over the century
and his charges become seized with an
irrepressible urge to cast themselves
to above the belly in some near-by
glutinous mud. He will have nothing to
get hold of but wool, and greasy wool in
a fierce sun is just a shade hotter than
Hell’s pepper-pot. After the sixth rescue
it’s a real effort of will to grab the seventh
red-hot fleece. By the time he’s pulled
out 20, a five-mile ride in the sun, pushing
half-dead and hopeless jumbucks to the
nearest water, will seem almost like a
holiday.
THE SEASONS
Young Robert saw the full moon rise,
Larger and redder than the sun
Had been at noon, and with great eyes
Stood watching. Summer had begun:
The broad face loomed above the near
Dusty horizon, hot and bold;
But, climbing, changed to small and clear,
Remote, familiar, and so cold!
Now Robert is grown weather-wise,
Notes the wild trees by winter bowed,
The sun diminished to moon-size
Beyond a mass of scurrying cloud,
A certain whiteness in the light,
Percussion of approaching thunder,
And he forgets the summer night
He looked on with big eyes of wonder.
w A.
ETHEL DAVIES
Host to Royalty
THOMAS BATH, who built what is
now Craig’s Hotel at Ballarat (Vic.),
did things well, and left various marks
by which he is remembered.
When he built he thought he was on
the main corner Sturt-street and
Lydiard-street —but, official survey prov-
ing otherwise, he made a corner for him-
self by constructing a new street along-
side the hotel. It is still known as
Bath-street.
Bath provided bed and board at the
hotel for the Royal princes who visited
Australia around 75 years ago, and
entertained them at his beautiful rural
home, Ceres. The huge four-poster bed
which they occupied (with steps to mount
it), and a picture of the youthful princes
in miners’ overalls about to descend one
of the goldmines, are still preserved in
the “Princes’ bedroom” at Craig’s, and
a giant grapevine at Ceres is from a
cutting from the famous Hampton Court
vine, sent to him by the princes on their
return to England.
Bath imported a shipment of cement,
part of which built the massive stables
at Ceres, with the bust of himself, cast
in cement, over the entrance. The cement
also went into the fortress-like kennels
for the hounds.
There are living memorials, also, in
the shape of magnificent trees which he
planted at Ceres, and an intriguing sun-
clock on the veranda of the homestead.
The course of a sunbeam along the wall,
from a small hole in the roof, had been
carefully plotted throughout the year
and marked with time-symbols in such
a way that, so long as the sun was shin-
ing, the sun-spot gave the time of day
EMJAI.


No. 8 o/ a Series
Men who make.,..
Caption (/
-VubdMtabam
w
- %
The makers of Capstan Tobacco do everything
possible to ensure that this fragrant blend reaches
you in prime condition. Factory freshness is
maintained in all packages of “ Capstan ” Tobacco
by the moisture-proof viscose wrapping around
the package. This protective material preserves
the superb flavour and aroma that are so
characteristic of “ Capstan’s own blend. 9 * Mr.
Norman Keen is in charge of the “ clever ” machines
which wrap your packets of “ Capstan ” with this
special viscose film. Watch for further interesting
advertisements descriptive of Capstan Tobacco
manufacture.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
X987D.8.53
Small is big—
0
BEIXS
%C oich W h
100% SCOTCH
distilled and b
' IN’SCOTLAND ft.
p
»«ODUCT O*
sometimesl
A paradox? Perhaps! But there
are times when a tape-measure
Is not the truest judge of stature.
Take Scotch Whiskies for
example. Bell’s is one of the oldest
of the independent firms of Scotch
Whisky distillers—they have been
making whisky since 1825.
Their output is by no means the
biggest but the whisky they make
is ‘big’ in the best sense. Yes,
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky is a
really-and-truly ‘big’ whisky.
A big-hearted drink. Well and
wisely matured. Beautifully
blended. Carrying in the heart of
it the heart of the Highlands.
Those who take whisky seriously,
take Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
Business. Rollery. Etc.
FINANCE MINISTERS' COMMUNIQUE
TN the communique issued at
the conclusion of the Finance
Ministers’ Conference in Sydney,
it was emphasised that Com-
monwealth countries still reject
the view that any solution
of their problems can be
found in the creation of a closed
system of discriminatory arrange-
ments, which could lead only to
chronic restrictions and recurring
crises.
The Empire is responsible for
about one-third of world
trade. The United States
and Europe had a special part to
play because, with the Common-
wealth and sterling area, they are
responsible for three-quarters of
world trade.
The sound economic policies
pursued by the Commonwealth
countries, the publicly expressed
resolve of the U.S. Government
to keep the economy of the
U.S.A. strong and growing, the
expansion of production in
Europe, and the substantial
increase in monetary reserves
outside the dollar area provide,
in the judgment of the Ministers,
solid grounds for confidence.
The conference discussed
current policies, namely:
(a) The maintenance of a strong
baiance-of-payments position and the
strengthening of the central gold
and dollar reserves;
(b) Sound internal policies and the
need to restrain inflation;
(c) Economic development of re-
sources.
Considerable progress has been
made in the application of these
policies during the past 12
months, a period when, despite
weakness in certain commodity
prices, economic conditions have
been generally favorable. In the
result the overall deficit in the
sterling-area balance of payments
in 1951-52 was turned into a
surplus in 1952-53, the position
of sterling in the world has been
strengthened and the central
reserves have steadily increased.
But it is realised that much still
remains to be done.
Although the dollar situation
has improved, the Common-
wealth should not relax its efforts
to achieve a dollar surplus ; but
it was just as important that it
should earn a substantial surplus
in other non-sterling currencies.
In this ingenuity, increased effi-
ciency and competitive strength
must be shown.
The conference reviewed the
internal policies of Common-
wealth countries and observed
that considerable improvement
has been made during the past
year. But more remained to be
done. On the application of
sound economic policies de-
pended the purchasing-power of
money, the cost of living and the
ability to sell exports in increas-
ingly competitive world markets.
Shortcomings in the internal
policies of any one member
affect the external fortunes of the
whole sterling area by creating
excessive demand for imports,
diverting resources from export
industries and throwing the
balance of payments out of
equilibrium.
The Commonwealth had great
resources, natural, human and
industrial. The need for their
development was urgent, and
indeed vital. The aim of all
sterling - area Commonwealth
countries is to concentrate on the
development of those resources
which, directly or indirectly, con-
tribute on an economic basis to-
wards improving the balance of
payments of the sterling area. In
some countries of the area, how-
ever, development plans have
been made to provide for some
basic improvement in the
standards of living, which is a
necessary foundation for further
economic development.
There was much evidence that
development had everywhere
"Phil the Forger always wants to be different.”
gone ahead more smoothly and
economically as inflation was
checked and excessive competi-
tion for resources was materially
lessened. This made it clear
that sound internal policies are
just as important to economic
growth as they are to a healthy
balance of payments.
The conference reviewed the
factors which affect the scope
and pace of development. Sup-
plies of goods for development
had much improved. But in
most cases finance is still the
major factor limiting develop-
ment. Each Government in-
tends to continue policies de-
signed to secure the highest pos-
sible level of internal savings.
However, most individual coun-
tries and the sterling area as a
whole still need additional
financial resources from outside.
At the Commonwealth Eco-
nomic Conference of December,
1952, the United Kingdom Gov-
ernment undertook to make a
special 'effort to provide addi-
tional capital for Common-
wealth development. The U.K.
will continue this policy in 1954,
and will make extra efforts to
develop its own resources.
The United Kingdom Govern-
ment, in its lending policy, will
wish to be sure, first, that the
programmes as a whole are in
conformity with the general
policy of concentrating on the
improvement of the sterling
area’s balance of payments,
and, secondly, that the country
concerned is making an ade-
quate contribution from its own
resources.
In some countries private enter-
prise is making a large contri-
bution to development. Gov-
ernments will be concerned to
promote balanced development,
whether public or private, to
pursue policies designed to in-
crease the flow of savings and
to encourage private invest-
ment from both internal and
external sources.
The growing confidence in
sterling and the increasing
strength and flexibility of the
economies of the sterling-area
countries have enabled them to
make progress in the move to-
wards expanding trade and free-
ing currencies. But decisive
action must be related to the
fulfilment of the conditions
indicated in the communique of
the Commonwealth Economic
Conference. These conditions
are:
(a) The continuing: success of in-
ternal policies of sterling Common-
wealth countries;
(h) The prospect that trading
nations will adopt trade policies
which are conducive to the expan-
sion of world trade;
(c) The availability of adequate
financial support, through the Inter-
national Monetary Fund or other-
wise.
The conference “noted with
great satisfaction” the passage
in President Eisenhower’s re-
cent message to Congress in
which he referred to the creation
of a healthier and freer system
of trade and payments in which
others could earn their own liv-
ing and the United States
economy could continue to
flourish. “All Commonwealth
countries await with interest the
detailed recommendations which
the President will make to Con-
gress after the Joint Commis-
sion on the Foreign Economic
Policy of the United States has
made its report.” While stres-
sing the importance of the
policies, external and internal,
which Commonwealth countries
should pursue, the Ministers be-
lieved that the forthcoming
declaration of United States
policies would have a profound
significance for the free world.
They noted the forthcoming re-
view of GATT, and agreed
that there should be prior con-
sultation among Common-
wealth countries about this in
the light of the circumstances
existing.
“The underlying element of
thought and feeling at our
meeting,” says the communique,
“has been our deep and united
faith that the strength of our
Commonwealth is the strength
of freedom; that the freer ex-
change of currencies and trade
can be best assisted by the
strength of our own currency
and the expansion of our own
trade and commerce.”
John McGrath Industries
The new share-issue by the
big John McGrath motor-
vehicle-distributing and en-
gineering group will be 2,000,000
ss. ords., one for four, at par;
paid capital will become
£2,500,000. The market didn’t
consider it good news, and the
old shares, which keen demand
had lifted Is. to 7s. 3d. since
the beginning of the year,
promptly slumped to 6s. 4d.
They later recovered to 6s. 6d.,
at which price the rights are
theoretically worth about Is. 3d.
There may be cheaper buy-
ing opportunities after trading
in the rights starts in February.
The new shares are payable
either in full by March 31 or
Is. by March 31 and two instal-
ments of 2s. by May 31 and
July 30.
John McGrath’s board gives
no reason for the issue, but the
last balance-sheet suggests that
it is largely to provide working
capital. The impression is that
a paid capital of £2,500,000 —
it includes £1,000,000 of bonus-
scrip—is on the high side in re-
lation to earnings of £162,642
last term, and of £351,722 in
1951, at the peak of the boom.
Still, the board says that pro-
fits for the current year are
such that it believes the co.
will be able to maintain the 8
p.c. div.-rate, “assuming no
major change in economic con-
ditions.” At 6s. 3d. the yield on
that rate would be 6.5 p.c.
The group’s main distributing
and engineering interests are in
the automotive, earth-moving
equipment, tractor and aircraft
industries. It handles Rootes
Group vehicles in N. S. V/ales
and Queensland, and its two big
forging offshoots supply, among
others. General Motors-Hol-
den’s. All will be well if car-
sales continpe at or near the
current high level, but the co.
hasn’t got much in reserve to
back the 8 p.c. div.-rate in the
event of a downturn.


ENVEtOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3j ins.,
65 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ď
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [jj;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notice
In the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH KERNICK formerly
of Woy Woy.—TAKE NOTICE that
NORMA BERYL KERNICK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. ■ 4022 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend the suit
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 2nd of April 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from DAVID 0. BIVENS, Soli-
citor, Cessnock, or from his Sydney Agent,
W. F. HOLMES, Solicitor, of 39 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
Rl
m
vw
r
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank’s
Trade Enquiry Service.
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank's agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia's oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank's Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank’s nearest branch.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
THE UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world
'ANZ.24. 3550"
LIMEYS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-Land
I Why not Me advantage of \
\ lumley’s tree Advisory Service }
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS Hi
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538*
C.M.L Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Llsmore. 'Phone 1962.
I
ELS. 8.18
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
“Good, but can do better.
Capable of tremendous achieve-
ment if he works harder, and
concentrates more, next year;
but no present indication of his
so doing. Natural leader, but
too easygoing and too preoccu-
pied with out-of-school activi-
ties.”
Thus, in effect, reads the Dis-
tinguished Inspector’s report on
John Bull, who, poor fellow,
had rather been patting himself
on the back that he’d had a
successful year. Of course he’s
chastened, but he’s also not a
little perplexed. So he takes
refuge in the realisation that
self-congratulation, like con-
ceit, should be avoided at all
costs.
Our distinguished, but by no
means disinterested, inspector
happens to be the Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation. Unlike the pro-
nouncements of First Statesmen
(or, for that matter, for Finance
Ministers) which invariably go
to great trouble to disguise the
fact that they have nothing pub-
licly to say, the O.E.E.C. report
is blunt, forthright and hard-
hitting.
Britain’s problem, it declares,
is to export more, especially to
hard-currency countries. And
her economic policy must be
based on “an aggressive increase
of exports, of industrial fixed
investment, and of savings to
match both.” A substantial in-
crease in investments is desir-
able for the coming year, but
it is “by no means certain to take
place.”
The O.E.E.C.’s main stric-
tures are:
(i) a loss of output of about
5,500,000 tons of coal
due to miners’ holidays,
including the Corona-
tion ;
(ii) a high ratio (65 p.c.) of
personal consumption to
national income ;
(iii) increased production has
lagged behind other coun-
tries ;
(iv) the low rate of industrial
fixed investment.
The report acknowledges an
increase in private saving and
the hard truth that defence ex-
penditure has risen dispropor-
tionately, leading to the
“modest” exports. It is uneasy
about the income-tax conces-
sions, on the grounds that they
increase demands at home,
seducing manufacturers away
from tougher markets beyond
the seas. And it thinks that the
U.K. should be in the leadership
towards freer international trade.
Stung
Except for the “Daily Herald”
(which lays the blame entirely
upon Mr, Butler for his mea-
sure of control- and subsidy-cuts)
comment is respectful and self-
searching, Yet the conscious
avoidance of any suggestion of
righteous indignation does not
conceal a sense of hurt. The
report is invidious in its com-
parisons—quite unintentionally,
of course—because it was based
on the first nine months of 1953.
The latter part of the year was
marked by a steady, consistent
rise in productivity and broaden-
ing of exports. One major dol-
lar-earning industry, wool tex-
tiles, has trotted out imposing
figures to prove its growing
force and produced facts to
demonstrate its unremitting
enterprise. What’s the good of
talking about greater adapta-
bility and so on, it appeals, if
U.S. manufacturers are pressing
for increased tariffs?
But for the most part the
O.E.E.C. report has had the
effect of underlining our in-
sistent and tiresomely repetitive
problems. The level of private
spending is too high. Individual
saving, except in the contractual
form of life-assurance premiums,
pension contributions and
mortgage repayments, virtually
,does not exist. Despite Mr.
Butler’s cuts, subsidies, exclud-
ing agriculture and welfare food,
still amount to £l9O million;
the reduction is inappreciable.
And the balance-of-payments
surplus of £3OO-£350 million
which the Government aims at
is not likely to be achieved, even
by one-half.
All sections of the community
are preoccupied with security of
one kind or another: the
worker with his pension, the
life-offices with the investing of
their £3OOO million funds, the
big bosses with their price-rings
or cartels and the trade-unions
with the shorter week (giving
more overtime) and fear of new
labor-saving techniques.
Taking the grimmest view, as
is prudent and natural when
under surveillance, the immedi-
ate problems of 1954 rather put
other unaccountables into the
background. The Government,
for the first time in its term of
office, is faced with a serious
tVeat to productivity from in-
dustrial strikes and go-slows
which seem, unhappily, to
emanate directly from the direc-
tive of the Communist World
Federation of Trade Unions. A
drop in exports or even a mild
recession in North America
could be disastrous; and the
maintenance of full employ-
ment is going to be difficult.
But, apart from a slight
worsening in industrial rela-
tions, none of these dire events
has yet come about. Common-
sense opinion takes the view
that introspection may here be
as dangerous as complacency-
in other words, that we can do
no better than assume that the
authorities concerned are sens-
ible enough to be giving their
full attention to these prob-
lems.
The Lighter Stage
Two of our largest theatres,
the Coliseum and Drury Lane,
seem to be earmarked for years
to come as outposts of Broad-
way show-business. And the
third hub of popular entertain-
ment, the Palladium, also de-
pends substantially upon Ameri-
can artistes, mainly from the
West Coast, to fill its vast audi-
torium to capacity. This means
that the “night-outers,” as dis-
tinct from the habitual play-
goers, must take their entertain-
ment about three-parts Ameri-
can to one British. (And,
since the works-outing from
far beyond the metropolitan
perimeter is now an established
practice, the potential audience
is immense.)
The question now is: Will
this domination of ready-made
Broadway successes continue
for ever? Certainly the advo-
cates of British shows for
Britons have the vainest of
hopes. Even if we were to pro-
duce a crop of writers, com-
posers, lyricists and technicians
superior to Rodgers, Hammer-
stein, Kaufman, Loewe, Loesser,
Mielziner and the rest, they
would have to migrate in order
to compete. For the hard truth
is that theatre finances cannot,
except in exceptional instances,
support the enormous produc-
tion-costs.
Yet the Americans are not
finding that their transfers are
automatic long-runners. Despite
the consistent “market,” the
public is not quite as receptive
as it was. There is nothing
anti-American in this reaction.
Theatrical tastes are always
changing. Moreover, if a suc-
cessful British play can seem
strange to a New York audience,
the reverse is no less true. Most
of the topicalities of “Call Me
Madam,” for example, were
above the heads, or outside the
range, of British people.
A current ipstance is “Guys
and Dolls” at the Coliseum.
Based on a Damon Runyan
story, this delightfully-conceived
fantasy of Brooklyn vagabond-
age is largely alien to St. Mar-
tin’s-lane —and, for that matter,
to Nether Wallop. Its theme —
the juxtaposition of gangsters
and “wide” boys with the Save-
a-Soul missionaries, and the
reformation of the cleverest
trickster —is deftly managed and
always touching. The produc-
tion is so excellent as to upset a
dramatic truism that pure
goodness is impossible to por-
tray on the stage —and the
simulation of religion is never
offensive to good taste. But,
again, the language makes no
sense, the gags misfire and the
pivot of the show—a game of
craps—is esoteric as an Aztec
rite. Dialect plays, however
worthy, are not transportable.
This is one.
Meanwhile, British talent is
both assertive and virile. With-
out consciously giving battle, it
nevertheless is proving a strong
counter-attraction in the com-
paratively inexpensive medium
of intimate revue. “Airs on a
Shoestring” (a meaningful title)
is playing to full, appreciative
houses at the Court Theatre in
Sloane-square. So is Alan
Melville’s “At the Lyric,”
further west at Hammersmith.


A Group of Experts to Manage
m
1
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet-— -“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater,
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart ,
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper
CAPITAL expanded £909,690 during
the year, but earnings of Associated
Pulp and Paper (and subsidiaries) were
held at 11 p.c. on average capital (after
lower tax provision), compared with
11.2 p.c. and 7.5 p.c, in the two preceding
years. The ord. div. was kept at 7 p.c.,
and £233,842 was carried to reserves. It
was a good performance, in view of the
more competitive conditions in the paper
trade. Production of finished paper for
the year was 34,388 tons, compared with
approximately 30,000 tons in the pre-
ceding term. Since the close of accounts,
because of a drop in orders, mill output
has been reduced. A revival is expected
before long.
Here is a comparison of last year’s per-
formance with previous trading results:
Consolidated Figures.
Towards
Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
1948.. 83,492 6 p.c. = 96,000 128,757
Intangibles £3OB .. .. 128,449
1949.. 94,537 6 p.c. = 96,000 129,912
Share premiums, £16,311 .. .. 113,601
Intangibles reduced, £289 .. . 113,312
1950.. 243,685 6 p.c. = 193,011 60,674 62.638
Special tax provision, £44,800 .. 106,938
To raw material res., £lO,OOO .. 116,938
Added intangibles, £6105 .. .. 128,024
Added reserves, £5899 net .. . . 117,144
1951.. 243,882 6 p.c. = 194,021 49,861 67,283
Special tax provision, £64,900 .. 132,183
Added intangibles. £72,888 205,071
Share premiums, £15,000 .. 190,071
Added reserves, £64,221 net .. 125,850
June Reserves.*
1952.. 522,828 7 p.c. = 303,521 219,302 93,452
Special tax provision, £83,412 .. 10,040
Added reserves, £18,806 .. .. 28,848
Added intangibles, £2362 .. .. 26,484
Share-issue exes., £25,780 ~ .. 704
1953.. 585,300 7 p.c.= 351,458 233,842 234,546
•After deducting intangibles (now £626,516) from
reserves, and excluding depreciation reserve, etc.
( £2,462,572).
Capital has not at present a great deal of
support from visible reserves, which were
only £234,546 in excess of intangibles
(£526,516) at last balance-day. But de-
preciation does not appear to have been
neglected. The reserve for depreciation,
obsolescence and contingencies at last
balance-day was £2,462,572, up £333,452
during the term. (Actual allowance for
depreciation was £346,667, compared with
£365,325 in the preceding year.) Total
fixed assets amount to just under £lO
million in the accounts.
The co. was floated in 1936 under the
wing of the three big Barrier mining cos.
and Electro. Zinc and Amalgamated Zinc
(Deßavay’s). Gerald Mussen also figured
prominently. Operations in the fine-
printing and writing field began at Burnie
just before the outbreak of war, and the
co.’s output was a godsend to the Aus-
tralian printing industry. Capacity at the
Burnie (Tas.) mill was 22,500 tons a year.
Prices were strictly controlled during the
war, and the co. was unable to cash in
even after the war, when the price of
overseas paper soared to fantastic levels.
There was a slump in the landed cost of
imported papers in 1952, and the trade
has been uncertain ever since. A.P. and
P. has applied for an increased duty on
imported fine-printings, but so far no
further protection has been granted.
Four machines are now operating at
Burnie, with two more expected to start
during the current year. Last year an
unusual amount of imported pulp was
used pending a further increase in the
capacity of the pulp mill and the manu-
facture of some types of paper from
practically 100 p.c. eucalypt pulp.
Paper Makers Pty., the wholly-owned
subsidiary which works the near-by
184,000-acre forest from which the parent
draws pulpwood, had a successful year
from the operation of its hardboard
plant. Substantial depreciation was pro-
vided. The new sawmill is not expected
to be in full operation until the second
half of this year.
Thomas Owen and Co. (Aust), Ltd., in
which A.P. and P. owns all the 2,000,000
£1 ords. issued (half paid to 155.), has
erected plant at Burnie to make parch-
ment, greaseproof, glassine and other
specialty papers. A full output has not
yet been reached; the largest machine is
expected to be in operation by February.
Operations of Papyrus Pty. and Ballarat
Paper Mills, in both of which A.P, and P.
has a controlling interest, had smaller
turnovers during the period, but stocks
were not allowed to build up unduly.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures give
some indication of the great expansion
in the undertaking over the past two
years:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital ..£3,233,690 £4,504,718 £5,414,408
Reserves .. 10,041 234,546
Outside interests 50,379 1,099,389 1,098,307
Debentures .. 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,000j000
Suspense a/c .. 1,055
Depreciation ~ 1,689,961 2,129,120 2,462,572
Overdraft ~ 359,802 3,275,742 1,588,793
Creditors .. 211,392 445,930 540,593
Tax provision .. 241,421 370,962 364,792
Pinal divs. .. 97,011 201,220 183,161
£7,384,711 £14,037,122 £13,887,172
F’hold land. etc... 476,560 643,983 588,268
Bldgs, and plant* 4,497,482 8,005,333 9,241,030
Stocks, etc. . . 961,444 2,362,870 2,071,629
Finished stocks 260,973 505,312 814,067
Debtors , . 576,650 951,240 1,024,960
Shareholdings .. 479,419 1,538 10,780
Cash. etc. .. 1,666,846 136,488
Deficit ~ .. 132,183
£7,384,711 £14,037,122 £13,887,172
* At cost.
The addition to paid capital last term was
£909,690, and there was still £826,736 to
come in when the books last closed. The
capital which flowed in during the term,
and £1,530,358 of the cash that had
accumulated at the previous balance-day
(largely from new capital and debenture
issues), was used mainly to wipe £1,686,949
off the overdraft and add £1,235,697 to
buildings, plant, etc. Raw materials,
which had accumulated quickly in the pre-
ceding year, were worked down £291,241
(to £2,071,629) in the latest term.
Finished stocks (£814,067) rose £308,755.
Capital outlay is still going on, and it
may be a year or two yet before full
benefit of the new plant additions will
be noticed. By that time the market for
paper may have steadied, and it is pos-
sible that additional tariff' protection will
be granted. The co.’s war-time and post-
war effort, when it sold at below world
parity, should tell in its favor in any
Tariff Board application.
The market assesses the co. on its
present earning-capacity. The £1 ords.
at 235. 3d. yield 6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div,
basis. Net tangible backing is £1 os. lOd.
per £1 of ord. capital. There are no
prefs., but £2 million of debentures carry
the cheap rate of 4i p.c.
Consolidated Finance Corp.
AUSTRALIAN vendors of short-term
credit, particularly in the hire-
purchase field, are at present enjoying an
unprecedented boom, and are getting
strong support from investors. The share-
market’s fears in 1952 that financiers’
activities would be severely curtailed by
credit-restrictions proved unwarranted:
they couldn’t handle all the business
offering, but what they could was enough
to keep their earnings buoyant. Now
that the Government has released its tight
hold on credit, most cos. have been writ-
ing a great deal more business, financing
it largely by bank-overdraft and/or short-
term securities, which have the double
attraction of flexibility and cheapness,
qualities more desirable for this purpose
than permanency.
New money and new concerns entering
the field could lead to sharp competition.
especially if sales of motor-vehicles and
consumer-durables, which at present are
running at high levels, should fall away.
Besides reducing turnover, competition
would almost certainly force a cut in the
very lucrative terms-charges now being
imposed. However, some of the newer
cos., writing mainly used-car business,
would be more vulnerable than those with
established connections and a good spread
of interests.
Into the latter category falls Consoli-
dated Finance, of Sydney, which is a
happier reconstruction of the old Pro-
ducers and General Finance Corporation.
In 1938 P. and G.’s new board had to
adopt a drastic rehabilitation programme,
culminating in the lopping-away of
£388,750 capital, and a change of name,
in 1945. Ord. issues at par totalling
£285,359 have since lifted paid capital to
£491,745, including £lOO,OOO in 7 p.c.
prefs.
The parent runs a hire-purchase and
general finance business, and there are
six offshoots: A. W. Booth Pty,, Kellys
Furniture Pty. and Simpson Lee and Co.,
Ltd., all furniture-retailers; Lily field
Furniture Co,, Pty., furniture-manufac-
turer ; Kilners Pty., removals and storage;
and Amplion Automotive Pty. (formed in
1953), distributor of small petrol-engines.
Simpson Lee and Co. is a new addition to
the list; Consolidated bought a control-
ling interest on favorable terms late last
year.
Under able and energetic management,
the group has made excellent progress, as
the following table testifies: ■—
Consolidated Finance and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends N — Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, tained. Deficit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1947 .. 23,459 7 8 15,511 7,948 48,392
Unexplained addition res., £14,423.. 33,969
1948 . . 32,943 7 10$ 18.766 14,177 19,792
To stock reserve, £4OOO .. .. 23,792
Unexplained reduction res., £1872 .. 25,664
1949 .. 22,474 7 13 24,553 27,743
Unexplained reduction res., £2932 .. 30,675
1950 .. 38,476 7 10 26,588 11,887 18,788
Reserves.*
Tax over-provided in previous years,
£24,961 6,173
To stock reserve, £2OOO .. .. 4,173
Unexplained addition res., £1735 .. 5,908
1951 .. 50,014 7 10 29,852 20,162 26,070
From doubtful debts proy’n, £10,000.. 36,070
Unexplained reduction res., £1263 .. 34,807
1952 .. 49,243 7 10 46,174 3,069 37,876
Unexplained addition res., £229 .. 38,106
1953 .. 84,463 7 10 46,174 38,289 76,394
•After deducting goodwill, now £58,845.
Both the finance business and the sub-
sidiaries turned in better results last term ;
and the expense-rate was lower. After
£68,452 for tax (up £17,566) at the old
rates., and £6932 for depreciation (up
£452), the board wrote combined earnings
£35,220 stronger at £84,463. That was
enough to cover the pref. charge and
19.8 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 10.8
p.c. in 1952, but the div. was held at 10 p.c.
Tax-cuts will save the co. about £12,000,
or 3 p.c. on capital. Present indications
are that 1953-54 will prove even more
profitable than the preceding year.
A big increase of £249,424 in hire-
purchase and other debtors’ balances
illustrates the expansion in business dur-
ing the year. Funds to meet that increase,
less an offsetting rise in unearned-income
provision (£31,649), came mainly from
the bank (£116,012), surplus profits
(£38,518), and from additional amounts
owing to creditors (£54,472):
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 271,151 391,745 891,745
Reserves .. .. 26,070 37,876 76,394
Outside interests 7,400 6,919 6,929
Unearned income.. 61,660 82,867 114,516
Overdraft . . .. 199.858 216,290 332,302
Tax provision .. 41,450 71,122 78,036
Creditors .. .. 43,713 34,458 88,930
Final divs. .. 16,558 23,087 23,087
£767,860 £964,364 £1,211,939
Freeholds .. 90,326 98,057 101,903
Plant, etc. .. 30,265 31,398 32,999
Stock .. .. 108,668 108,085 100,862
Debtors .. ~ 53f7T71 725,085 974,509
Cash, etc. .. 1,427 1,789 1,666
£767,860 £964,364 £1,211,939
Consolidated’s 4s. ords., which had
dropped to par in the 1952 scare, and had
recovered to 6s. by December last, shot up
to 7s. 3d. on Jan, 4, later touched 7s. 6d.,
and last week stood at 7s, At that price,
to yield 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div., the
shares seem fully valued. The 7 p.c, 16s.
prefs., at 16s. 9d., return 6.7 p.c. Net assets
cover was £5 13s. Bd, prefs. and 4s. 9d.
ords. when the books were ruled off.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
THIS energetic Brisbane retailer, whose
modern department-store runs through
the busy Queen-Adelaide-street block, is
now in a stronger position than at any
time since it took over the business 43
years ago. This is partly due to post-war
prosperity, and largely to the manage-
ment’s keen merchandising and cautious
financial policy, which has included the
brightening of the store and strengthen-
ing of the co.’s resources by keeping divs.
moderate and accumulating reserves.
By July 3T last the co. had visibly
amassed £507,187 in reserves, which have
been the principal source of funds for the
business’s expansion. Only issue of cash-
paid capital since 1927 was of 78,385 18s.
ords. (£70,546) made in 1950; in the
same year a bonus-issue of 2s. a share
(£35,000) raised the par value of all the
ords, to £l. The div.-rate, which was
steady at 8£ p.c. for the six years to 1951,
and dropped to 6 p.c. in 1952 (a matter of
available finance), advanced last term to
9 p.c. (of which 3 p.c. is labelled bonus),
highest for nearly 30 years:
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 84,293 2500 8$ p.c. = 20,778 61,015 220,171
To staff bonus, £3500 216,671
1949.. 80,555 2500 8$ p.c. = 20,778 67,277 273,948
To staff bonus, £3500 .. • • . . 270,448
1950.. 72,428 2500 Si p.c. = 21,445 48,483 818,931
To staff bonus, £5OOO .. .. .. 313,931
Reserves disclosed, £45,000 .. .. 358,931
Revaluation assets, £35,000 .. .. 393,931
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 .. .. 358,931
6 p.c.
1951.. 79,587 8000 8i p.c. = 28,250 31,250 407,268
To staff bonus, £14,000 .. .. 393,268
Realisation assets, £31,444 .. .. 424,712
1952.. 66,399 3,000 6 p.c. = 21,000 82,399 457,111
Tax overprovided, £26,000 .. ..482,111
1953.. 65,076 3,000 9 p.c. = 31.500 30,676 512,687
To staff bonus, £5500 .. .. .. 507,187
Since 1948 sales-revenue has continued to
grow, but profits, caught between fixed
gross margins and voracious costs, have
fallen away. Gross profit in 1948 equalled
26.1 p.c. on sales, and exes, took 20 p.c.,
leaving 6,1 p.c. (£84,293) as net profit.
Last term, turnover was nearly £1 million
higher than in 1948 ; gross profit was
25.9 p.c., exes. 23.1 p.c., and net profit
only 2.8 p.c. (£65,706). Should turnover
get into reverse-gear, the effect on earn-
ings is likely to be severe, unless price-
control, which in present competitive
conditions is not only useless but also
harmful, is abolished.
The comparison between last term and
1952 is more cheerful:
-iqk-i IQs*> 10S3
Sales .. .. £2,043,129 £2,163,047 £2,306,477
Gross profit .. 527.473 548,449 597,819
Expenses .. .. 447,885 492,050 582,743
Net profit .. 79,588 56,399 65,076
P.c. to sales .. 3.90 2.61 2.82
Sales rose by £143,430 (6.2 p.c.), and
gross profit by £59,370; the gross margin
(25.9 p.c.) was 0.6 p.c. better. Exes.,
which include depreciation (£21,530, up
£2557) and tax (£50,000, up £16,000),
made off with £40,693 more, leaving net
profit £8677 higher. The improvement
in the net profit ratio was 0.21 p.c. After
attending to the prefs., the £65,076 of
profit showed 17.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 15.8, 23, 29 and 31.9 p.c. back
to 1949. Budget tax-cuts have added
another £4OOO to the year’s earnings.
Import-controls prevented the co. from
getting the quantities and qualities of
many lines that it normally carries; as a
result, stocks were reduced by £32,310
during the year. The proceeds, together
with surplus profits, etc., and £43,734
added to amounts coming to creditors,
were used to wipe out the overdraft
(£80,806 at previous balance), spend


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
KUV mom SAFE!
SANDERS ’
dJSJgy.FILfS
i.S
m
Tricnr and far-
ther information
tapes appilaatloo
Correspondence. I
•tenements, etc., filed to the
~Scrnder»" can bo securely
fecund and converted Into a
perfect book of reference a!
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PTJRTH Tww n*
PROGRESS
AND
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
CARLTON AND UNITED
BREWERIES LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria, Bth May, 1907)
REGISTERED OFFICE : 16 Bouverie Street, Carlton.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
Of £1,500,000
Registered Mortgage
Debentures ot £lOO each.
0
SUBSCRIPTION
lists
NOW OPEN
Full Prospectus and Application Forms obtainable from »
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Interest on the amount paid on application will be computed from the date upon which
the Debentures are allotted and interest on any balance not paid on application will bo
computed from the date upon which such balance is paid. The Board of Directors will
proceed to allotment daily as from the opening date of the issue.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred to and indorsed
upon a printed copy of the full Prospectus and should be lodged at the principal offices
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Hobart of the English Scottish &
Australian Bank Limited.
Directors :
Norman John Carson C.M.G. 24 Charles Street, Kew, Company Director (Chairman)*
John Madden Baillien 203 Orrong Road, Toorak, Stock & Share Broker.
Maurice Howard Lawrence Baillien 3 Huntingfield Road, Toorak, Stock & Share Broker.
Edward Cohen 69 Huntingtower Road, Malvern, Solicitor.
George Gordon Coulter, 9 Edzell Avenue, Toorak, Merchant.
Alexander Reid Creswick, ‘Kent Park’, Oakleigh Rd., Lower Ferntree Gully, Pastoralist.
Frank Levy, 90 Moore Street, Bendigo, Manager.
Rodney Telford Morell, 20 Myrnong Crescent, Toorak, Solicitor.
Trustee for the Debenture Holders :
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD., 333 Collins St., Melbourne.
Underwriting Brokers :
E. L. & C. BAILLIEU and lAN POTTER & CO.,
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by the issue of Debentures
in order to provide the sums required for the matters hereinafter mentioned is £1,500,000. The matters
referred to and the estimated amounts required for each are :—(i) The purchase price of any property
purchased or to be purchased which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
issue is nil but the estimated expenditure necessary for extensions and improvements to buildings and
additions to plant machinery and equipment of the business carried on by the Company is £1,450,000.
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the Company, Nil. Expenses of the issue (including underwriting
commission and brokerage amounting to £30,000 payable to the Underwriters in consideration of their
agreeing to procure subscriptions for the issue) are estimated to amount to £50,000. (iii) Repayment
of any moneys borrowed by the Company in respect of the foregoing matters. Nil, but pending the
expenditure of the sum referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above part thereof will from time to time be
used in reduction of bank overdraft, (iv) Working Capital, Nil. No amounts are being provided in
respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales have not
been fully complied with in this newspaper advertisement of the full Prospectus, which is dated the
Eighth day of January, 1954, and a duly certified copy of which has been filed with the Registrar-General
of the State of New South Wales.
£17,837 net on plant, etc., and to
add £33,311 to the cash holding:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital— & & &
Pref. .. 59,000 50,000 50,000
Ord. .. 350,000 350,000 350.000
Reserves .. 393,267 457,110 507,186
Overdraft .. 164,087 80,806 -
Tax prov’n 107,956 71,574 62,998
Creditors .. 207,363 122,419 166,153
Final div... 30,001 22,500 33,000
1.302.674 1,154,409 1,169,337
Freeholds .. 407,553 258,229 253,826
Plant .. 83,853 186,245 154,082
Shares other
cos. .. 34,293 94,311 94,311
Stock . . 634,159 532,161 499,851
Debtors .. 142,364 132,366 132,859
Cash. etc. 952 1,097 34,408
1.302.674 1,154,409 1,169,387
Expenditure on fixed assets was
mainly on account of air-con-
ditioning plant, which was in
process of installation when the
books closed. Net current assets
figured at £404,967 (up £36,642),
to which can be added £36,912 of
the tax and bad-debts provisions,
which the chairman says are in
excess of requirements.
Retail turnovers since July 31
have been buoyant, and look like
remaining so in the immediate
future. Together with steadier
costs and lower tax-rates, that
points to a better net result for
Allan and Stark in the current
term, though the chairman says
“competition is getting keener
and the tendency is for profit-
margins to shrink gradually.”
Whether the canny board will
lift the payout may depend on
the co.’s finances when the
accounts are presented. How-
ever, at 305,, to yield 6 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis, the £1 ords.
look good for long-term holding.
The 6 p.c. prefs. at 225. 6d. return
5.3 p.c. Net assets cover is
£lB 2s. lOd. prefs. and 495. ords.
The Oil-rush in Queensland
Being formed in Queensland
by R. H. W. Molesworth, who
in 1929 floated Longreach Oil
Wells, Ltd., Westland Oil Co.
has taken up an oil-prospecting
authority over 5000 square
miles in the Longreach (Q.)
district. The area does not in-
clude the bore put down by the
old Longreach co., and from
which a very small oil-produc-
tion was won (at 3227 ft.) in the
early 1930’5, but it includes
seven other bores from which,
according to Queensland Gov-
ernment records, oil or petrol-
iferous-gas rose to the surface
against the pressure of flowing
water. No commercial produc-
tion of oil was obtained from
any of the bores.
W. D. Mott, Senior Queens-
land Government Geologist,
writing on “Oil in Queensland”
in the “Queensland Government
Mining Journal” for October,
1952, said;
The gas, wax and oil recorded
from several bores in the area south
from Longreach indicate this to be
a promising area for further investi-
gation, but correlation of bore-logs
is not definite enough to designate
the rocks as of Triassic or Permian
age. The relatively high carbon-
dioxide content of some gases sug-
gests Middle Bowen origin
Westland Area:
The showings in bores south of
Longreach, within the area bounded
by Langdale, Portland, Springleigh
and Warbreccan, indicate this to be
very promising.
Surface geology is of little struc-
tural value in the region, but suffi-
cient water-bores have been drilled
to allow structure contours to be
drawn on higher formation contacts,
and from these geophysical prospect-
ing can be directed to locate possible
stratigraphic or structural traps in
the deeper horizons.
An official summary of the
borehole results in the co.’s area
is as follows:
Bimerah II: 65m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4310 ft.; at
3550 ft. petroleum in sandstone; gas
mainly CO2, 4.5 p.c. ethane.
Langdale : 30m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 2520 ft.; gas
7.7 p.c. ethane.
Ruthven I: 45m. s.-s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4105 ft.; 2.8 p.c.
ethane gas at approximately 4000 ft.;
wax at 4049 ft.
Ruthven II: Bm. north of Ruth-
ven I. Total depth 4515 ft.; 3.3 p.c.
ethane gas at 4100 ft.
Warbreccan: 110 m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4330 ft. This bore
was drilled in 1898. Petroliferous-gas
samples taken in 1928 showed esti-
mated volume lOOc.f. a day, with
water, ethane gas 5.5 p.c.
Wellshot VI: 35m. s. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4008 ft. Gas,
3 p.c. ethane.
Westland III: 45m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 2080 ft. At
2035 ft., “dark oil.”
Mr. Molesworth, in a pre-
liminary statement, says that the
object of the Westland co. is to
“adopt the latest technique now
available to locate suitable rock-
structure, and drill bores for
testing the flow of oil.” Initial
issue will probably be £lOO,OOO
in 2s, shares.
There has been a return of in-
terest in Queensland oil potenti-
alities following the Rough
Range (W.A.) strike. Frome-
Broken Hill Co., Ltd., has been
granted authority to prospect for
oil over 161,000 square miles,
comprising the western half of
Cape York Peninsula and most
of the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
Frome-B.H. Co. (owned by Zinc
Corp., Vacuum and D’Arcy Ex-
ploration) aims to get on with an
aerial and geological survey of
its area, to be followed by in-
tensive geophysical prospecting
and, ultimately, drilling if
results warrant it.
Associated Australian Oil-
fields, N.L., which has been
drilling at Roma without suc-
cess, has been granted an oil-
prospecting licence in the North
Queensland Gulf country cover-
ing 51,500 square miles around
Normanton and Croydon, ad-
jacent to Burketown, and in-
cluding part of the Carpentaria
Basin. The Inverleigh West
bore, 40 miles s.-e, from Burke-
town, drilled some time in the
past for water, is apparently in
this region, and at 2000 ft. there
were showings of “dark oil,”
according to Government re-
ports. No oil-drilling has been
carried out in the area.
Associated has also been
granted an additional 13,500
miles in the Roma area.
In 1940 Shell (Queensland)
Development Pty., Ltd., started
surface and geophysical investi-
gations over southern Queens-
land and extended the area to
the central railway. After
several years’ investigations, in-
cluding scout-drilling, a dry
deep-test was drilled in 1950 at
Morelia, 30 miles n.-w. from
Arcadia. The co. abandoned
its search in 1951 after the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
ran a seismic traverse across a
structure east from Emerald
which indicated basement at
about 3000 ft.
Geologist W- D. Mott says
that sedimentary rocks occupy
an area greater than 450,000
square miles in Queensland.
Over 12,000 water-bores have
been drilled in this area, more
than half of which are shallow.
The deep water-bores are miles
apart, and very few penetrate
the sedimentary cover. To date
oil manifestations have been
confirmed only from Permian
and younger rocks of the Great
Artesian Basin, the Bowen Syn-
cline and the Moreton Basin.
The Tertiary rocks in Queens-
land are considered to have no
petroleum potentialities.
Freney Oil
On January 11 Mr. W. A.
Carcary, secretary of Freney
Kimberley Oil Co. (1932), N.L.,
said in Perth that no English
concern had approached his co.
with a proposal. Several cos. had
made overtures, but nothing had
come of them. On January 13
Freney’s chairman (Mr. C.
Flower) said he would make no
statement pending the outcome
of negotiations now proceeding
between his co. and other oil
interests. The market for
Frenev shares last wep.k sW im 1
to over 40s. for the fully-paids.
The co.’s licence covers 550
square miles in the north-west
of W.A. inland from Broome.
Uranium Mines, N.L.
Reports from Norseman on
the radioactive deposits found on
the Dundas (W.A.) goldfield are
cautious. There are two prospects
of note. In one, an extensive area
of brecciated granite, trenches
40ft. apart have disclosed a
yellow uranium mineral. Trench-
ing is being continued to deter-
mine its extent and values. In
the other prospect, on dry Lake
Dundas, it is expected that the
radioactivity will bo confined to
the crust of the lake, reflecting
decomposition products of
uranium. Here the “mother
lode” (if any) has yet to be
found.
The 25.-paid shares in
Uranium Mines, N.L., have
weakened to 17s. 6d. following
the announcement.
Papuan Apinaipi
“Lemon”: The recent show-
ing of crude-oil which was en-
countered in the major test-well
now drilling on Rough Range,
Western Australia, has been
responsible for many strange
happenings. Such as this (taken
from a broadsheet issued by the
chairman of Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co., which continued
to exist after its permit had been
forfeited, owing to non-com-
pliance with permit require-
ments, and whose drilling rig—
on loan from the Government
—had been shipped back from
Papua to Sydney):
Your board has pleasure in an-
nouncing that, following on an
invitation to visit Melbourne on
December 17, the directors had a
long and very helpful discussion with
senior personnel at t he Bureau
G f Mineral Resources. This has re-
suited in the board being advised
to forward an application to the
Administrator of the Territory for a
greatly enlarged area, nearly 50 times
greater than the area formerly held.
Your board has always recognised
f hat its prospecting operations must
be und er constant scientific advice,
and to tbjs end bas COlU jitionally re-
tained the services of two most
eminent geologists, who have been
recommended by the Bureau
ot Mineral Resources.
Y our board has already made
tentative arrangements to engage the
services of a highly qualified driller,
who will provide his team of Skilled
operatives. Your board will also
negotiate with other experts in their
particular department, who will ad-
vise us from their experience on
problems which will inevitably arise
from this great project.
Shareholders 1 will be asked to in-
crease the authorised capital of the
company to 5,000,000 shares of ss.
each, or £1,250,000.
A meetings of PA P
.T"^
snarenoiders me bureau was
strongly criticised by the co.,
and has been charged with forc-
, fL j •„ onnoTt
mg the company to drill 2000 ft.
into volcanic rock — against the
advice of its resident geologist
and other netroleum exnerts—
ana.or^r P ei roieurn experts
on the threat or withholding the
Government subsidy.
The change of heart on both
~ . ° .
side! 3 is almost as remarkabie as
the chairmans broadsheet.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Queen is to have two free days
during her visit to Sydney, on Sunday,
Feb. 7, when her only appointment is a
service at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, and
on Monday, Feb. 8. For the rest of
the visit the programme looks quite
strenuous.
On Wednesday, February 3, there will
be the official landing and reception at
Farm Cove, followed by the procession
through the city and the placing of a
wreath on the Cenotaph. At night there
will be a fireworks display. The next
day, Thursday, the Queen will open
Parliament, preside at the meeting of the
Executive Council, attend a luncheon of
women’s organisations and attend a State
banquet at night. On this day Prince
Phillip will lunch with the Senate of the
University.
On Friday, February 5, there will be
the assemblies of schoolchildren, the as-
sembly of ex-servicemen and women in
Hyde Park, an inspection of the
Repatriation Hospital, the planting of a
tree in Macquarie-place for the Memorial
Drive to Canberra, reception at the Royal
Yacht Squadron wharf and the Lord
Mayor’s Ball.
Saturday includes a visit to Legacy
House, a visit to Randwick races, the
surf-lifesaving display at Bondi and the
concert at the Tivoli Theatre at night.
On the following Tuesday the Queen
and Prince Phillip will set out on their
visits to Newcastle, Casino, Lismore,
Dubbo, Wollongong, Bathurst, Lithgow,
Katoomba and Canberra,
On Thursday, February 18, the Royal
couple will fly back to Sydney, visit
H.M.A.S. Penguin, attend the garden-
party at Government House and then
leave for Tasmania.
* ☆ ☆
Two big affairs listed for the time of
the Royal tour are the Red Cross Ball
and the Ball of the Royal Australian
Artillery, to be held at the Trocadero on
February 11 and 9 respectively. The
Red Cross Ball promises to be a very
glittering affair, with representation of
all the diplomatic embassies and con-
sulates and a grand display of the
glamorous dresses and jewels that have
been prepared for the occasion.
* ☆ *
The Royal Australian Artillery Ball is
under the patronage of the Governor-
General and Lady Slim, and is being
specially held to commemorate the visit
of the Queen, who is Colonel-in-Chief of
the Royal Australian Artillery Regiment.
Approval has been granted for the wear-
ing of uniform, and dress will be mess-
dress, blues or evening-dress with
miniatures.
Also, of course, there will be the Lord
Mayor’s Bali, at which her Majesty will
be present. By all accounts there have
been some heartburnings over the in-
vitations (1500 of them) because so
many people who confidently expected
to be invited have been omitted.
Invitations to the garden-party at
Government House were compiled, it is
said, from the visiting-book entries dur-
ing recent months, which resulted in a
large “new” group of Sydneysiders being
included, while many of those who always
go to Government House do’s, and have
bought dresses for that exact purpose,
have been disappointed in their hopes.
Although the Queen herself has said
she doesn’t want anyone to go to un-
necessary expense in dressing for Royal-
tour functions, it does seem rather a
pity to permit lounge-suits at the Lord
Mayor’s Ball. Dinner-suits are regularly
hired-out for weddings in Sydney, so
regularly that people don’t even think it
strange. Surely anyone who was lucky
enough to be invited to the ball could
raise at least the price of a hired suit.
* * *
The reception to Sir Percy and Lady
Spender drew 200 guests to the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms in Bligh-street,
which means that the reception was
packed-out and overflowing on to the
balconies. Mr. W. J. Bradley, president,
welcomed the guests-of-honor, and a posy
of red gladioli was presented to Lady
Spender, who wore an American-model
dress of black faille trimmed with black
velvet and a tiny velvet pill-box hat
encircled with three rows of pearls.
Noticed Dr. Mary Booth among those
present, also Sir James and Lady Bis-
set, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Miss
Margaret Gillespie, Mrs. F. H. Berry-
man, Mr. and Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer, Mrs.
C. M. Guiney, Mrs. Gordon Johnston,
Mrs. Joyce Snelling, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Twigden, Mr. and Mrs. Allen Williams,
Mrs. Alec Morgan, Major and Mrs. C.
Chapman. It was interesting to hear
that nearly everyone present had re-
ceived one or more invitations to Royal-
visit gatherings, although a few grim
looks indicated those who had missed
out.
Also present at this reception was Miss
E. Gordon Everett, who is shortly to
retire from the position of headmistress
of Abbotsleigh School, a position she
has occupied for 23 years. Her place
will be taken by Miss Ruth Hirst. Miss
Everett, who returned from a trip abroad
last July, hopes to travel overseas again
before very long.
Pretty Sonia Hopkins, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. E. Hopkins, of Ashleigh,
Orange, and of Killara, announced her
engagement to David Cathels at a
coming-of-age party which her parents
gave for her at the Pickwick recently.
David is the son of Mr. and Mrs. R. C.
Cathels of Killara. The young couple
plan to marry at the end of the year.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Anyone reading 18th-century memoirs
must shudder at the idea of the breakfast-
parties thiat were apparently quite com-
mon then, amazed that such an unearthly
time should have been chosen for social
intercourse. But what, if he could judge
them rightly, would the historian of the
future make of our forms of entertain-
ment? Would he think them “jolly good
fun,” or would he, too, be amazed?
Take, for instance, the cocktail-party,
perhaps Sydney’s most popular form of
gathering. This is held between 5 p.m.
and 7 p.m., originated in the gay
’twenties and is designed to fill in the gap
between the end of the day’s work and
dinner. A few cocktails, a little stimulat-
ing conversation and a salted-almond or
so were supposed to put one in a good
mood for substantial dinner that was
to follow. But nowadays the sausage-
rolls, the oyster-patties and the frank-
furters are consumed in such quantities
that nobody feels inclined for dinner,
and at any rate it’s too late to get any
because most people normally dine at
6 or 6.30 in any case. In fact, the
irregular eating habits, the dyspepsia, the
duodenal ulcers of the modern day may
be set down in no small measure to the
cocktail-party.
As for the stimulating conversation —
that’s largely a matter of luck, although
this type of party does allow one to
move freely from one group to another
in search of a bon mot. The only draw-
back is that there is not much introducing
done as a rule, and, likely as not, one may
languish in a corner forgotten, one’s
conversational gambits untried.
Another drawback to the cocktail-
party is that there is seldom much seat-
ing accommodation, and the strain of
juggling a handbag, a glass, a cigarette,
a sardine-savory and a pair of gloves is
enough to put one out of the ranks of
the socially-competent altogether.
The buffet-luncheon is even worse.
Here there is generally plenty of solid
food provided, but people at such
luncheons suffer badly from anxiety-
complexes and as soon as they sight the
laden table, with its handsome red lob-
sters, stuffed snapper with their heads
still on and banks of oysters on ice, they
begin to worry about how soon they can
break into it, whether it will look rude
if they take a plate and fork right now,
and what would be a good strategic posi-
tion to take up so as not to be lost in the
scrum.
“Buffet” is defined in Webster’s Dic-
tionary as “to make one’s way by
struggling,” and this just describes hungry
Sydney citizens at such functions. The
bold types frankly surround the table
and heap-up their plates with everything
close at hand. The famished but refined
generally stand with their backs to the
table and nip round from time to time
to take a titbit surreptitiously. The
simply refined just stand bleakly on the
outskirts of the battle and don’t get any-
thing to eat. All this worry, plus the
trouble of coping with a slice of roast
beef, an oyster on the shell, a cake and
an olive (all on the one plate) with only
a fork and while burdened with the
usual trappings of handbag, etc., makes
one wonder whether the buffet-luncheon
is really worth while.
MELBOURNE
The invitation-cards to the Royal Ball
to be given at the Exhibition on March 2
are beautiful and suitable for framing—
and it is certain that many will be. At
the top is a replica in color of the
Armorial Bearings of the City of Mel-
bourne, while centred and also in color is
the Royal Coat of Arms.
☆ ☆ *
Geelong Grammar School Chapel was
the setting for the marriage of Lynette,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Mc-
Kenzie, of Geelong, and David Rosse,
son of Dr. and Mrs. B. Rosse Woods,
of Port Fairy. Bishop James officiated.
The bodice of the bride’s gown was of
white guipure-lace, the skirt of white
organza over taffeta. A coronet of
orange-blossom held her long tulle veil
(lent by the bridegroom’s sister, Mrs.
Boyce Le Couteur), and the bouquet was
of gardenias and frangipani. Sister of
the bride, Ruth McKenzie, and Alison
Eagle were bridesmaids. They wore
ballerina frocks of white organdie over
palest-pink taffetas. Pale-pink rosebuds
trimmed the necklines, and trails of simi-
lar flowers were arranged with pleated
organdie across the backs of their heads.
Posies of gardenias tied with pale-pink
velvet ribbons were carried. Best man
was James Stewart, and Brian Armytage
was groomsman.
Mrs. Thelma Holland, who since the
Queen was 18 has been her Majesty's
adviser on the care of her complexion, is
here on a business visit as representative
of Cyclax of London. An Australian, as
Thelma Besant she was often seen here in
amateur theatricals. “ Vivienne ” photo.
When she met presswomen at luncheon
at. Menzies’ Mrs. Holland wore a charcoal-
grey alpaca suit and a matching straw hat
which had a rolled-back brim. She told
of the multitudinous preparations by her
staff on Coronation Day, and of the
Queen’s natural beauty of complexion,
which needs only a little rouge at night.
She said that even the splendor of her
Majesty’s gowns and jewels does not de-
tract from her natural, delicate coloring.
,☆ * *
Mr. and Mrs. Rudi Schneemann, who
leave shortly for Bonn, Germany, where
Mr. Schneemann will take up a diplo-
matic post, were given a farewell party
by Mr. and Mrs. Eric Wells in their
Kooyong home. Mrs. Wells received her
guests wearing a short cocktail-frock of
floral linen. Guests included Lieut.-
Commander Peter Lloyd and Mrs.
Lloyd, the Governor’s aide, Captain
Timothy Kirwan Taylor, Mrs. Graham
Egerton, the Dick Doyles and Peter
Isaacson and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
The audience entered into the spirit of
the piece when the Arrow Associate
Company staged its first play at the
Arrow Theatre, the old Victorian melo-
drama “Sweeney Todd, the Demon Bar-
ber of Fleet-street,” and hissed and threw
peanuts at the villain. The Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks,
accompanied by Heather Turner-Laing,
were in the audience. Frank Thring, who
leaves shortly for overseas, welcomed the
vice-regal party with Joan Cunliffe, who
wore a gown of the Victorian era and
handed out the peanuts. Joan Mac-
donald, who also wore a pretty Vic-
torian gown, was an usherette. Seen in
the audience were Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. J. Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Helmut
Newton and Athol and Bambi Shmith.
☆ ☆ ☆
The retiring Chief of the Air Staff, Sir
Donald Hardman, and Lady Hardman
were farewelled at a party given at
R. Headquarters Mess, St Kilda-
road, before returning to England. Guests,
who were received by the president of
the mess. Air-Vice-Marshal V. Han-
cock, and Mrs. Hancock, included Sir
Donald’s successor, Air-Marshal J. P. J.
McCauley, his wife and daughter Anne,
Air-Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones, Air-Marshal Sir Richard Wil-
liams and Lady Williams, Air-Commo-
dore and Mrs. E. G. Knox Knight, Air-
Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters (he has
returned from Washington to take over
Air-Marshal McCauley’s old job) and
Group-Captain and Mrs. J. C. Fleming.
☆ ☆ ☆
Last year the Union Theatre presented
many plays which were excellently pro-
duced by John Sumner. On February
2 he will present for the first time in
Australia Christopher Fry’s “The Lady’s
Not for Burning,” also at the Union
Theatre in the University grounds. The
coveted role of Jennet (the Lady) will be
played by Zoe Caldwell. Other women
in the cast will be Sylvia Reid, who will
portray Alison, and Carmen Dunn, who
will be Margaret.
☆ * ic
At Caulfield on Saturday the Governor
was a guest at the luncheon given by the
chairman of the Melbourne Racing Club,
Mr. S. Garnsworthy, and committee,
while Lady Brooks was the guest of Mrs.
S. Garnsworthy. Lady Brooks chose a
pretty white silk frock patterned in
shadowy black and a large black straw
picture-hat. Mrs. Garnsworthy’s frock
was of brown-and-white-checked chiffon,
and her large natural-straw hat was
trimmed with brown chiffon. Other
guests at the luncheon were Lady
Hardman, who had white accessories for
her pastel-pink linen suit, and Lady
Collins, who wore with her grey frock a
cloche of gold straw.
Hostessing a small party in the ladies
committee-room was Mrs. Robert Gove,
whose full-skirted frock of deep-blue silk
shantung contrasted with her grey silk
petal-cap. Her guests were Mrs. Tom
Fogarty, whose polished cotton frock in
saxe-blue tonings was worn with a large
black straw hat, and Mrs. A. E. Shepherd,
whose silk frock had a white ground and
was patterned in brown and navy ; her hat
was of navy straw.
Two racegoers in attractive white
ensembles were Mrs. Jack Steele, of
Hastings, whose white linen carried tiny
clusters of Irish crochet on skirt and
bodice, and Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, also in
white linen which was self-embroidered.
Mrs. Peter Watkins’s frock was of pink-
and-white checked nylon, Kathleen Solly’s
of Wedgwood-blue-and-white-patterned
silk. Mrs. George Armstrong's white silk
frock was patterned in navy and worn
with a navy straw hat. A pleated navy
frill was on the skirt of the blue-spotted
white silk frock worn by Mrs. V. Roach
with a white hat. Mrs. J. Reilly topped
her black frock with a turquoise-blue hat
finished with a matching ostrich-leather.
Mrs. Tom Carlyon’s black-spotted white
silk frock was worn with a large white
ballibuntal-straw hat.


Missing Friends
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of ROBERT JOHN WAITES, born
1877, or his next-of-kin, please communi-
cate with the UNION TRUSTEE COM-
PANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, 333
Collins Street, Melbourne?
WILL R. J. DAVYS, formerly of Irish
Yeomanry and South Africa, write MC-
KINLEY, P. 0., Broughton, Johannesburg.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
im ADVAUcei
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 „
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
DO NOT PAY MORE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre
It is always pleasantly grati-
fying to be quoted—in the right
spirit, of course —so one notes
with approval that The Bulle-
tin’s opinions on the Shakspeare
Memorial Theatre’s Australian
season of “Othello,” “As You
Like It” and Part One of “Henry
IV” are chosen for quotation in
Shakspeare Memorial Theatre
1951-53 (Max Reinhardt,
London) “a photographic
record, with a critical analysis by
Ivor Brown. Photographs by
Angus Mcßean.”
Mcßean’s photographs are ad-
mirable excellent records of
such excellent material as Michael
Redgrave’s Richard 11, Harry
Andrews’s Henry IV, Hugh
Griffith’s Glendower, Redgrave’s
Hotspur, Richard Burton as
Henry V and Hazel Penwarden
as Princess Katherine, Michael
Bates as Touchstone and Jill
Showell as Audrey, Sir Ralph
Richardson as Volpone, Leo
McKern’s lago, Peggy Ash-
croft’s Portia, Redgrave’s Shy-
lock, Marius Goring’s Richard
111, Redgrave’s Antony, Yvonne
Mitchell’s Shrew, Redgrave’s
Lear, Harry Andrews’s Kent and
many others—and one regrets
that one cannot quote him at
length.
It is, however, possible to
quote Ivor Brown, and approv-
ingly. His analysis covers the
three years 1951-53, and, if it
suggests that he is over-anxious
not to hurt any feelings, it con-
tains a lot of quotable observa-
tions. Of 1951, the Festival
year:—
How better could Stratford contri-
bute to the national occasion than
by devoting the talents of today to
the Shakspearian cycle of histories?
These are usually acted in a sporadic,
piecemeal way without acknowledg-
ment of their essential continuity.
But four of them, “Richard II,”
the two parts of “Henry IV,” and
“Henry V,” make up a series in
which the main political idea and
some of the characters persist and
develop.... So for 1951 Stratford in-
vited its playgoers to enjoy the
riches of the developing drama of
English kinship so magnificently set
forth by Shakspeare with all its
gusty, Falstaffian humors as well as
with its clangor of the tented field
and with its gory tragedies of
baronial gangsterism contending for
an uncertain and endangered throne.
The four histories occupied
most of 1951, and the year at
Stratford finished with “The
Tempest,” with Redgrave as
Prospero. Australian stage-de-
signer Loudon Sainthill was the
decorator of this, and Brown
comments: “He was praised,
somewhat surprisingly, for
having given the impression of a
submarine beauty. Since the
virtue of Prospero’s island was
to be terra firma, and since most
of the characters had had far
too much marine and submarine
experience for their safety and
comfort, I could see no point in
this. What came out best was
the masquerade and the display
of the conjuror’s art. By these
we were rescued from a certain
dullness of hue, a dullness alien,
surely, to this island of en-
chantment whose verdure and
foison are particularly empha-
sised in the text of the play.”
“The Tempest” was revived in
the 1952 season with Redgrave re-
placing Richardson as Prospero.
That year began with “Corio-
lanus,” of which Brown remarks,
“it is not, as a rule, a favorite ....
reckless contempt of democratic
opinion is not in the mood of
our time or of a nation which
has detested and defeated the
Nazi and Fascist tyrannies.”
That seems a rather drastic esti-
mate of a man who was hardly a
Nazi nor Fascist but, rather, a
soldier with too much pride and
an impatient contempt for
politics and “the mob.” There
are many like him today, in and
out of politics, and one would
hesitate to call them “Fascist.”
Anthony Quayle played Corio-
lanus, and Brown was impressed
by his portrait of “political
crudity” and “a lout with a lion’s
heart.”
One can hardly find justifica-
tion for “lout” in a man who can
call his wife “My gracious
silence,” or who, disguised and
“ Remember? She was that nice dish at the Palladium who got an
engagement to tour Africa."
bedraggled, can be addressed by
his enemy:
Say, what’s thy name?
Thou hast a grim appearance, and
thy face
Bears a command in’t; though thy
tackle’s torn,
Thou show’st a noble vessel
Nor could “lout,” “Fascist” or
“political crudity” be fairly as-
cribed to the man who says of
the mob:
They know the corn
Was not our recompense, resting well
assured
They ne’er did service for’t: being
pressed to the war,
Even when the navel of the state was
touched,
They would not thread the gates.
This kind of service
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i’
the war,
Their mutinies and revolts, wherein
they show’d
Most valor, spoke not for them: the
accusation
Which they have often made against
the senate,
All cause unborn, could never be the
motive
Of our so frank donation. Well,
what then?
How shall this bisson multitude digest
The senate’s courtesy? Let deeds
express
What’s like to be their words: “We
did request it;
We are the greater poll, and in true
fear
They gave us our demands.” Thus
we debase
The nature of our seats and make
the rabble
Call our cares fears: which will in
time
Break ope the locks o’ the senate,
and bring in
The crows to peck the eagles.
Possibly that analysis of the mob
doesn’t suit “the mood of our
time,” but how perfectly it fits it.
And how few politicians today
could read it without a stirring
of conscience.
“As You Like It,” “Mac-
beth” (with Richardson.) and
“Volpone” (also with Richard-
son ; and Quayle as Mosca)
filled in the rest of 1952 ; 1953
was rich with “The Merchant,”
“Richard III,” “Antony and
Cleopatra,” “The Taming of
the Shrew” and “King Lear.”
Brown touches on each of
them—“a vile, vicious, venom-
ous, villainous” Shylock (Red-
grave) ; Marius Goring’s Richard
111, “a psychological investiga-
tion instead of plunging into
demoniac melodrama”; “as
soon as Michael Redgrave
(Antony) and Peggy Ashcroft
(Cleopatra) took the stage we
felt the impact of the hot winds
of a love at once profane and
prodigious” ; the “Shrew,” with
Goring’s Petruchio having
“more charm than is customary”
and so taking some of the
savagery out of the comedy;
and Redgrave’s Lear, “a pro-
longed racking on the wheel of
fire and the actor only to be
judged when the wheel has come
full circle.”
Except that one cannot easily
digest Brown’s comments on
Quayle’s Coriolanus, or on the
same actor’s Falstaff, his neces-
sarily brief record of the three
years makes most tantalising
reading—'like the menu of a ban-
quet being enjoyed on the other
side of the world when there’s
famine in these parts.
P. D.
Talkies
“Rigoletto”
This Italian film presents
Verdi’s four-act opera straight
out of the Rome Opera House,
with no alterations to the original
text by Piave from Victor Hugo’s
La Roi S’Amuse. The produc-
tion is typical of the high stand-
ard set’ in the big European
capitals, with the 16th-century
Mantuan settings superbly rich.
The fine cast is dominated
throughout by the magnificent
singing and acting of Tito Gobbi.
He makes the hunchbacked
jester a figure alternating from
a loving father to a full-blooded
hater of the young Duke of
Mantua, when that profligate
betrays his daughter.
It is in the music he wrote ex-
pressing these affections that
Verdi reached the heights in
this opera. In the duet “Recall
not the Past” from the second
act, “Weep, My Child” from the
third, and the pathetic “In
Heaven Above,” the final duet in
the opera, the composer was in
his most felicitous mood. In
these Gobbi was joined by the
soprano Lina Paliughi, who, in
this and in the lovely aria “Caro
Nome,” sang effortlessly.
The baritone’s best work was
done in the third act when he
at first denounces and then
pleads with the courtiers to tell
them where they have hidden his
abducted daughter Gilda. His
sardonic “La ra, la ra!” and the
black hatred of his “Vile Race
of Courtiers” were full of ring-
ing power.
The Duke of the piece is
Mario Filippeschi, a typical tenor
of the bet canto school whom
Italy seems to be able to produce
by the score. His gay “Questa o
Quella,” the tender “Parmi
Veder” and the “La Donne e
Mobile” were given their just
dues.
Guilo Neri was Sparafucile,
the professional assassin whom
the jester hires to eliminate the
Duke. A basso prof undo of tre-
mendous power, his duet with
Rigoletto which opens the second
act brought out the best singing
in the opera.
There is a strong chorus,
which gives a particularly good
account of itself when the
courtiers are relating to the
amused Duke an account of their
adventures of the previous night
in abducting one whom they
took to be Rigoletto’s mistress.
At times the sound-track’s
reproduction is faulty, lending
a burred edge to the voices. At
Sydney Variety.
“The Wolf of Sila”
A remarkable thing about this
Italian film at the Australia,
Melbourne, is the apparently
absolute perfection of the Eng-
lish spoken by a large cast, all
obviously Italian.
It is a savage story of typi-
cally Italian passion set in the
wild surroundings of the Sila
region of Calabria, which is said
to be unknown to tourists and
even to most Italians. Pietro,
out courting his beloved, is
apprehended by policemen who
charge him with a murder he
hasn’t committed. Rather than
establish an alibi which would
betray the presence of his
inamorata, he puts up a stiff
fight and is shot, along with his
mother.
Years later Rosaria, his
younger sister, grown up, turns
up incognito at the home of his
girl-friend and starts an affair
with her brother, Rocco.
Rocco’s son complicates the
situation by making off with
Rosaria after a tree-felling com-
petition at which he beats his
father, the previously unchal-
lenged champion of the district.
The Calabrians don’t seem to be
quite so quick with the axe as
Australians, but they are quicker
with the rifle. Rocco is about
to shoot his girl-friend and his
son, when the sister he has been
tyrannising over all his life
shoots him, and it is revealed
that Rosaria only came into his
house to revenge the death of
her brother and her mother.
The story sounds like good
old grand-opera melodrama, but
it hasn’t this effect in presenta-
tion because of the extra-
ordinarily lifelike acting of
Silvano Mangano, Amedeo Naz-
zani and Vittoria Gussman.
* * ❖
“The Beast from 20,000
Fathoms”
Designed with the obvious
hope of making the flappers
squeal, this alleged shocker sets
off from the premise that it is
possible for a dinosaur to be held
in a state of suspended anima-
tion for 100 million years in ice-
masses, and to emerge, when
released by atomic disturbances,
in this 20th century, full of fight
and hatred for mankind.
Naturally he makes atavis-
tically for the Hudson River,
where he was apparently
spawned, after having performed
en route from the North Pole
such simple feats as crushing a
lighthouse and dragging a ship
under.
Apparently its long hiberna-
tion has disturbed the monster’s
old dietetic habits, for, from
being herbivorous, it has de-
veloped into a carnivore, with a
special appetite for policemen—
boots, baton, gun and all. Also,
it is able to smash its way
through large buildings with ease
and no damage to itself, which
goes to show how grand nature
can be in designing body-scales
tougher than steel-reinforced con-
crete.
Also, when it makes its initial
appearance all New York panics.
But here the producer, recalling
the near-state of emergency
which obtained when Orson
Welles made his famous broad-
cast of the fictitious landing on
Earth by an invading army from
Mars, is on more solid ground.
However, the sortie by the army
against the monster would be
viewed with deep satisfaction by
M. Malenkov. Eventually the
beast’s hash is settled by a
scientist who works it out that
a radioactive isotope shot into
its works wouldn’t improve its
health. After this unsporting
treatment the mass of scaly
rubber expires melodramatically,
and suitably, in an amusement-
park, after having demonstrated
its epicureanism by having as a
second course (having digested
the cop) several sections of the
switchback-railway.
The film’s sole interest lies in
the ingenious fake-photography.
At Sydney Palace.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
50ME considerable distance
to the north, well up the
west coast, and some hours
later, when Dart was,
mostly, peacefully asleep, a red-
faced, cursing giant stamped
back and forwards across his
bridge. Captain Gus Blewett,
master of the U.S. oil-tanker
City of Newark, had one ear on
his engine-room voice-pipe and
a wholesomely apprehensive eye
on the waiting coastline to port.
He could see that the coast was
appreciably closer, even through
the pre-dawn murk.
“Mr. Thompson! ” he bel-
lowed to the first-officer. “Any-
thingfrom the engine-room yet?”
“No, sir,” the addressee of
the bellow answered. “Chief’s
down there himself —and if he
can’t fix the fuel-pump . . .”
Gus answered his trailed-off
suggestion,
“Yeah! If he can't fix the
goddamn’ thing—in two hours
well be high, dry and unhand-
some! If” —he stared through
his glasses at the looming coast
—--“it those shore guns don’t spot
us before then.”
Gus lowered his glasses at a
step on the bridge-ladder,
“Yes?” he grunted.
“I got your signal off, Cap-
tain,” the signalman answered.
“Got an answer pronto. Them
Limeys sure fan the breeze . . .”
Gus was not interested in his
flag-waver’s appreciation of the
Royal Navy’s smartness.
“Come on, man,” he growled,
“where is it?”
He took the signal, carried it
into the dimly-lighted wheel-
house, and exploded.
“What the blue blazes Mr.
Thompson! Mr. Thompson!”
Mr. Thompson came running,
sliding the blacked-out door be-
hind him.
“Take a gander at this! ” Gus
thrust the signal at him. “Am 1
crazy? ‘Jettison all he tells
me. Jettison all me oil! An’
here I’ve spent the unhealthiest
hour of me life tryin’ to fix a
blasted oil-pump so’s I can get
me oil to the goddamn’ boilers!”
Gus broke off, his red face
empurpled, mouthing speech-
lessly while the other read the
signal.
“Well?” he finally got out.
“Well? That’s what the great
and glorious British Navy tells
me to do, ain’t it?”
He wiped his perspiring face
with an old sweat-rag, leaving it
on his bald head so that it was
festooned with limp strands.
With arm upflung to the deck-
head he asked:
“Why in blue blazes must
Uncle Sam’s Navy be on the
other side of this forsaken joint?
They’d have had a tin-can
burnin’ up the ocean gettin’ here
bv now!”
Thompson, a dark little rag of
a man, waited. With Gus’s
bellow lowering to half-a-gale,
he interposed gently:
“Look, Captain, that’s just
what the Limeys aim to do. Here
—at the end of the signal.”
Gus took the sheet, peering
at its brief message in the blue-
colored light.
“Humph,” he grunted, “why
the hell don’t he say so in the
first place? Yes, yes—tin-can on
its way. But . . .” he stared at
his first-officer. “Why dump all
me fuel-oil? Can you tell me
that, heh?”
Thompson could not. But he
had spent a good deal of his
War II time oiling the British
Pacific Fleet, and essayed an
answer:
“You’ve got me there, Captain.
But that Limey Admiral must
have some reason for it. They
usually have. Anyhow, I guess
we’ll soon find out. Them British
tin-cans rate two stacks —and,
they tell me, it runs close on to
20 knots a stack.”
The signalman spoke.
“She ain’t British, Mister. Says
here she’s an Australian de-
stroyer.”
Gus stepped to the door.
“British, Australian or Siam-
ese —she better get here right
smart or we’re gone a million.
If them shore-batteries kept any
sort of lookout at night we’d be
scrap-metal right now!”
He slammed the door behind
him and stepped out on to the
wing of the bridge, to stare with
lively apprehension at the loom-
ing bulk of the land to port.
Brewster was only half-asleep
when the signalman knocked and
entered his sea-cabin. The train-
ing of half a lifetime had him
awake by the time his visitor
reached the bunk.
“Yes?”
“Urgent from the Leader, sir.
Dispatch orders.”
Brewster leaned over on one
elbow and switched on his
shaded reading-lamp. He read
the signal, squinting in the light.
“Begins. Dart from Leader.
U.S. tanker broken down and
drifting on lee shore in position
. Proceed with dispatch and
take in tow. Ends.”
Brewster looked at his watch
as he hit the deck.
“Officer-of-the-watch seen
this?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Right. Tell him to set course
and increase to 30 knots.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
“Signalman?”
“Sir?”
“Give our passenger my com-
pliments, tell him that he will
miss the bombardment and that
if he’d like to see a destroyer
with her tail down come up on
the bridge.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Dart was bucking with un-
leashed power into the vocifer-
ous dark, the flotilla already well
astern, when Brewster made the
bridge, his oilskins over his py-
jamas. As he mounted the grat-
ing round the binnacle the ship
buried her snout; a lofty flight
of spray lifted gracefully over
her flare, swept towards the
bridge and drove sharp as needles
into the skin of his face.
Wiping it, Brewster peered into
the dim yellow face of the com-
pass, noted the course was a
little east of due north, listened
subconsciously to the steady
“ping-ping” of the asdic set, and
shifted his gaze to the officer-of-
the-watch. It was, he saw in this
four-to-eight morning watch,
Number One.
The younger man grinned at
his captain, little swords of light
from the binnacle running along
his wet, shining sou’-wester.
“Damn’ shame, missing that
bombardment, sir. But this offers
a bit of fun.”
The captain, as is usual with
captains dragged from their
warm bunks at 4.30 of a blustery
morning, was uncommunicative.
He grunted “Humph!” He
thought, “All right for you,
young-’un, but one day you’ll be
where I am. I wonder if you’ll
be so damned enthusiastic then?”
It was a momentary thought;
replaced immediately by calcula-
tions of time, distance, speed—
and the movement of the sun,
now mercifillly hidden but as
mercilessly lifting its revealing
face slowly up from below the
rim of the world to starb’d.
There was, Brewster remem-
bered, a reported shore-battery
about level with the tanker’s re-
ported position. His mind,
trained to razored appreciation
of the charts of the area in
which he operated, ran up and
down that coast near the tanker’s
position. Thank God there were
no shoals in her vicinity, mainly
because no rivers ran into the
harbor towards which she was
drifting. And then, in a blinding
light of realisation lit. by the
memory of the harbor’s name, it
struck him. Last month —no,
last week—he had seen the In-
telligence Report of the mine-
field laid, a garden of floating
death, across that harbor-mouth.
“Good God!” he ejaculated.
Number One stared at him.
Brewster brushed him aside and
stumbled on the lifting deck to
the chart-table. Number One
poked his head in beside him.
There was no need for words.
Brewster pointed with a pair of
dividers at the minute forest of
little black crosses drawn on
the chart. They lay directly in
the path of the drifting tanker,
and they marked the minefield.
Brewster pulled out to see
Sherwood, clad in a borrowed
oilskin, staring at him.
“Morning, sir,” he said.
“Hello, Sherwood. Come over
here. Should have had more
sense than to ship in a destroyer.”
Justifiably wondering, Sher-
wood followed him to the fore-
end of the bridge. Tersely
Brewster outlined the situation.
Sherwood looked at him, and
grinned.
“Gimme the boats, eh?” he
murmured.
It was Commander S. H.
Brewster, commanding-officer of
destroyer Dart, who sent the
signal about jettisoning fuel-oil
—not, as the rampant and care-
lessly reading Gus thought, a
British Admiral. It was, per-
haps, lucky for Gus that he had
made the mistake in the signal’s
origin, A man who had been at
sea almost as soon as he was out
of triangular trousers, he would
hardly have dumped his precious
cargo on orders from a mere
destroyer captain. As it was, he
was hard at it now, albeit watch-
ing with mixed feelings as he
smelt the pungent stuff being
pumped in great spouts into the
sea.
He turned to his first-officer.
“Mr. Thompson, we’re watch-
ing what must be about the most
monumental bit of goddamn’
stupidity the British Navy ever
thought up. Each breath of them
pumps spits out I dunno how
many good Amurrican dahlars.
And every breath puts us higher
out of the water —and that
means a bigger target for the
wind to drift in faster.”
Mr. Thompson, also smelling,
agreed, with the proviso: “1
still reckon there’s a blamed
good reason for it, Captain.”
Gus glared up at the coast.
“There’d better be. If that
damned destroyer don’t soon
heave in sight them Commos
are gonna get what’s left. Funny
thing, only last night I was
readin’ one of them p.-0.-w.
books.” Gus grinned with false
heartiness. “Soon a man’ll be
able to write one!”
The first-officer’s reply was
interrupted by the signalman.
“ ’Scuse me. Captain, but
there’s somethin’ sneakin’ up
from seaward.”
Both officers immediately ran
across the bridge, fumbling with
their binoculars. Gus spoke
from under his fists, peering
through the magnifying-lenses
into the night.
“That’s him, all right. About
time. One-funneller. That
means she’s one of them new
Battle-class. You’ve got all the
wires ready. Mister?”
“All we gotta do is button-on,
Captain.”
“Good! Then get forrard
and stand-by to pass the tow.
And be damned quiet about it.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Thompson ran quickly down
the bridge-ladder and forrard to
the fo’c’sle to where a shadowy
group, under the bosun, waited
by the big steel tow-wire.
“See her, bose?” Thompson
queried as he came up.
The bosun, a squat, bow-
legged bull of a man, spat over
the side. “I sees her, all right.
Mister. But it don’t look like
she sees us —look, she’s
stopped.”
Thompson peered through his
glasses. He saw a long, low
shape, an indeterminate black
bulk against the night. His
glasses brought up her stem,
innocent of any bow-wave.
“You’re right,” he muttered.
“It’ll be light soon. What’s up
with her?”
There was a good deal up with
Dart’s captain. And he did not
need the urgent representations
of his first-lieutenant to make his
fears any the clearer,
“I don’t see how we can get
to her, sir,” Number One was
saying urgently. “We’re too
late. She’s smack in the centre
of the field. If she hadn’t
dumped her oil —what a stench!
—she’d have blown herself up
long ago.”
Brewster was silent. Thinking
of the enormous risk he would
take in crossing that silent, wait-
ing death-laden garden of
gently-swaying bulbs. And of
what it would mean if Dart’s
bottom touched one. Not that
they would have to worry
much about that! A five-
hundred-pound amatol-packed
mine would blast her thin sides
wide-open—they’d have as
much chance as an ice-cube in
hell.
Brewster was not thinking of
the repercussions from the
Naval Board —not consciously.
His mind was filled to the exclu-
sion of all else with the lives of
his two hundred men —and those
aboard the tanker. He, and he
alone, could make the decision.
This was the privilege, and the
immense burden, of independent
command. He could, with no
suggestion of cowardice or lack
of initiative, turn about and
retire from that deadly field. It
was the pre-eminently sensible
course to take. And leave the
tanker, with her crew, now his
charge, to drift on to the cliffs
and the guns of the enemy
coast.
His face a mask, Brewster was
staring straight ahead over the
curving-in fo’c’sle. Intensely
interested, Sherwood watched
him. He had heard Number
One’s opinion—now he watched
Brewster form his own. The
flyer noticed that Brewster was
(i Continued on page 22)
SYNOPSIS
Having had a relaxing few
hours ashore with Natalie, Sher-
wood returns to duty. In the
wardroom a team of Pressmen
interview Hawk’s pilots. Com-
mander Baumer, trying faceti-
ously to take a rise out of the
reporters, is himself deflated by
one of them who has been in
the permanent Navy. Enraged,
Baumer stamps from the room;
is sighted by the surgeon-com-
mander, who goes into confer-
ence with his assistant on
Baumer’s mental condition. The
choleric Commander Air is also
discussed by Swan, who informs
Sherwood of his belief that
Baumer is yellow. Shortly
afterwards Sherwood boards
destroyer Dart for an opera-
tional trip up Korea’s western
coast. He is relaxing in his bunk
when the order comes : “Crash-
darken ship !” Darkened, the
destroyer steams on for the
operational area.


PRODUCTS OP THE
rootesJ
GROUP^fl
Bootes group
PRESENTS
M
■
‘ %;
mm '
m
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.V. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
MH
■
lis
m
v'
m
::
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
mmmm
* I
V
*1
B
■
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
Products of the Rootes Group, Melbourne, Australia.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS • CONNER, KARRIER TRUCKS


fingering his throat nervously.
That didn’t mean a thing, Sher-
wood decided. It was a sub-
conscious reaction of a man
whose brain was racing. The
strike leader felt a detached
pleasure in the situation. Here,
he had no responsibility what-
ever. The sight of another man
deciding whether to shoulder his
made Sherwood’s appreciation
of his lack of load all the
keener. The minefield he hardly
thought about. Danger had
been a constant companion of
Sherwood up here —much more
so than in the case of his
service-mates in cruiser or
destroyer.
Brewster turned. Though his
fingers still fumbled at his
throat, his voice was curt, con-
cise.
“The tanker has cleared the
mines. Our draught should be
less. Stand-by to pass the tow
on the quarter-deck. Number
One. We’re going in.”
It was out; the decision
which part of hie mind had been
avoiding all through the run up
the coast after remembering
those little black crosses on the
chart. With the decision made,
Brewster was the trained, expert,
thoroughly efficient destroyer-
seaman.
He bent to the wheelhouse
voice-pipe.
“Slow ahead together.”
Sherwood turned and stared
over the starb’d bow to hide
the ridiculously proud grin on
his face. This was an Australian
destroyer, in front of those
Yanks—it was also as much a
part of the British Navy as
Hawk herself.
Answer to the faint clang of
engine-room bells, Dart spawned
a smother of white from her
low-hung tail and edged slowly
through the water towards the
tanker.
“Here she comes. Mister,”
called the bosun. “An’ about
time! Must ’a’ been frightened
of them Commo guns. Come
on, you guys—git that heavin’-
line ready!”
Neither Brewster nor his first-
lieutenant would soon forget
that slow run in across the mine-
field. With every plunge of
Dart’s bows in the troughs
Number One’s knuckles gleamed
white where they clutched the
brass cover of the chart-table.
He had nothing to do but wait
till they got close enough to
heave a line across. Brewster
was fortunate in that most of
his brain was concentrated on
conning his ship. He had to
bring her in right the first time
—his nerves could not have
stood a second run across that
apparently guiltless stretch of
dark water. Constantly he
plucked at the skin of his throat.
Number One was halfway
down the bridge-ladder on his
way to the quarter-deck when
Dart leaned —over, further,
almost burying her lee guard-
rails. Number One felt a
thump —an iron band clutched
his chest, choking. He waited,
paralysed. Dart came slowly
upright and drove on. Number
One’s breath eased out; the
tension uncurled in his guts. It
was probably just a bigger
wave . . .
All that Brewster had ever
learned of ship-handling was in
his orders to wheel and engines.
Almost touching the rolling side
of the tanker, he hauled his bow
off, screws and rudder fighting
to swing her nose round. Tem-
porarily the seas won. There
came a shrill, harsh tearing of
tortured steel as Dart bit and
gouged almost all her fo’c’sle
length along the tanker. Then
she was clear, her quarter-deck
directly ahead and beneath the
other’s rearing bow.
The American bosun’s lead-
weighted heaving-line landed
with a dull thump beside Num-
ber One. He grabbed it up and
passed it to the tow-party,
“Full speed!” he jerked.
“Smack it about!” Then he
told his sailors. “We’re in the
middle of a minefield.”
The information shocked
their minds ; it galvanised their
muscles. The heaving-line, then
a small grass rope, then a small
wire came aboard Dart’s quarter-
deck as fast as tow-ropes had
ever been passed. The bosun,
panting on his fo’c’sle, grunted:
“Them Commo gunners sure
got the wind up these Aussies.
Thought they worked a forty-
hour week down-under? Here
—easy does it! This ain’t no
blasted Navy manoeuvre!”
Swifty the heavy tow-wire
was passed, Brewster, with per-
fect seamanship, holding his
power-packed hull in leash at
exactly the right distance from
the tanker’s lifting bow. With
the four-and-a-half-inch wire
shackled on. Number One stood
clear on the quarter-deck, faced
the bridge and crossed his arms
above his head.
He felt Dart tremble, waited
long enough to see the wire
come up, tauten, straighten
into a bar of iron, shake and
hold. By the time he made the
bridge both ships were moving
slowly off into the south —and
into the wakening day.
Neither Brewster nor his first-
lieutenant spoke as they drew
slowly and carefully away from
"The ship opened fire with a roar , her mountings opening in initial salvoes that developed quickly into the timed crash of
controlled broadsides.”
the shore, now plainly visible
astern. Neither could have told
you what he was expecting first
—the vast, shattering explosion
from beneath or the compara-
tively minor, but equally dan-
gerous, cracks from ashore,
Surely the battery-gunners must
have heard Dart’s grinding along
the tanker’s side. Number One
broke the silence, wiping his
dry mouth,
“What’s up with those
gunners, sir? They can’t sleep
all day, too.”
Sherwood grinned, rubbing his
stubble. “P’r’aps they’ve heard
about your manglers, James.”
Brewster made no comment,
He plucked at his throat and
stared astern, to where the har-
bor-mouth broke the even line
of the tree-grown cliffs. In a
moment they would be over the
minefield. He thanked God
that the British Navy had laid
it—all mines would be anchored
at their correct depth below
surface. He turned back to
Number One, smiling a little,
though his stomach was knot-
ting in little runnels of tension,
“Break it up, Number One.
Ever heard of defying the Fates?
If they’re asleep, let”
He was interrupted by a
sharp, ear-tingling crack. A
whistling screech shot overhead
and ended in a flung gout of
white spray fine on the starb’d
bow. Brewster roared:
“What are you waiting for?
Get those bloody guns in
action!”
Sherwood almost laughed out
aloud at the look Number One
shot at him - Yes > James, me
boy, he thought. I’m watching,
And trusting ...
Number One realised he had
to be quick. The enemy bat-
tery was now on their port
quarter, and the guns could just
bear. Shortly the tanker would
cross their line of fire.
Sherwood watched the direc-
tor above his head swing as
Number One spoke into a
phone. The heavy structure
pointed at the enemy flashes,
its great twin eyes on either
side eagerly staring. Sherwood
jumped. The ship opened fire
with a roar, her two mountings
opening in initial salvoes that
developed quickly into the
timed crash of controlled broad-
sides. The green harbor-mouth
was smothered in wicked orange
flashes, vivid amongst the trees,
With her equipment, designed
to land her messengers on an
enemy ship steaming at thirty
knots ten miles away, the
stationary shore batteries were
a target she could not miss. Even
so, untutored as he was in the
marvels of modern naval gun-
nery-control, Sherwood stared
with keen appreciation at the
vicious gouts of red following
each other in swift succession
ashore. He noticed that the
salvoes were almost exactly
spaced in time—which meant
first-class drill in the turrets.
With the ship smoothly in
action and control of her guns
in the obviously capable hands
of the control-officer in the
director, Number One stepped
across beside Sherwood, grin-
ning widely. He was so far gone
in exultation at his beloved guns’
beautiful shooting that he
nudged his senior officer with a
disrespectful elbow. Sherwood
smiled back. He nodded at the
smoking shore. “I see what
you mean,” he said.
But if Dart could have hit
her targets with, as it were, her
eyes shut, so, too, did she and
her lumbering tow make the per-
feet shore-battery aiming-
point. A whistling scream
approached at speed from
astern. The bridge personnel in-
stinctively ducked. The shell
landed beside her bow, ex-
ploded and belted her steel
P lates with a B iant hammer-
blow. She staggered, and drove
on.
“Number One,” Brewster
shouted. “Keep the forrard
mountings ready to fire. I’m
going to turn to port for a little,
You won’t have much time.”
“Have got, sir,” shouted back
his deputy. He spoke into the
director-phone.
Watching his tow carefully,
Brewster swung his nose to port,
towards the shore. Gradually
Dart swung broadside on to the
harbor-mouth. With a queer
exultation in his breast, Sher-
wood watched the two forrard
mountings, now impotent be-
cause of the position of the
targets astern, start to swing,
smoothly, like crouching tigers
eager to unsheath their claws.
Then the whole main armament
opened together.
Broadside after broadside
burst into the battery positions,
until the whole area was
smothered in black, flame-shot
smoke. God, thought Sher-
wood—this is lighting!
Brewster took a final look at
the mess ashore, then spoke
casually to the wheel-house.
“Starb’d ten. Easy with her,
cox’n.” And to Number One
as he straightened up: “All
right. You’ve had enough,
Cease firing.”
The order passed. Dart was
again still.
Brewster’s voice carried with
strange clarity after the din.
“Signalman, take a message.”
Brewster looked skyward a
moment, while the signalman
waited, pencil poised. It was
affectation—if ever a signal had
been easy to send this one would
be; and sweet.
Brewster smiled a little at
recognition of his own posing.
He turned to the signalman and
spoke brusquely.
“Dart to Leader. Took City
of Newark in tow in minefield
X-ten. Shore-batteries silenced,
Am proceeding with all dispatch
to rejoin flotilla. Ends.”
The signalman read it back,
turned to go, then paused as he
sighted the tanker astern.
“Tow signalling, sir,” he re-
ported.
Signalman, captain, first-lieu-
tenant and Sherwood read the
slowly-sent message, stuttering
in blinks of yellow light from
the tanker’s bridge,
“Nice work, Aussie Never
seen a tow passed s 0 qu i c k.
Just as weU w ith those gunners
on to us. See you in Kure.
Blewett, captain.”
Brewster looked at Number
One. The youngster grinned,
poised on the balls of his feet.
“May I, sir? I heard what
their bosun yelled down to us
about a forty-hour week.”
“Go for your life, young-’un
—they’ve got a couple of days
to get over it.”
Number One sprang to the
port signalling-lamp, grinning
from ear to ear. Slowly and
with relish he spelled out the
reply,:
“Glad to be of service. Sorry
we had to rush you with the
tow-wire. But we were sitting
in the middle of a minefield,
X-ten. Suggest you mark it on
your chart. See you in Kure.
Ends.”
Gus was speechless so long
that Thompson gently took the
signal from his hand. He
read it, got as near to I-told-
you-so as a face-wide grin can
and made for the bridge-ladder,
Gus recovered his voice, though
not his complexion,
“Here! Where are you
headin’?”
“I would like,” returned the
first-officer gently, “to show
this little bit of information to
the bosun. He seems to have
shore-gunners on his mind. I
want to see his face when he
realises that he had his bottom
over a minefield!”
The first-officer, who had had
dealings with the British Navy
before, walked leisurely down
the bridge-ladder, his face like
a split watermelon.
mAPTFR X
tHAnuK a
6 greeted Swan, as
Sherwood came inboard
over the gangway. “How’s the
stomach? Do we still say
‘Gimme the boats’? ’
Sherwood grinned down at his
impish face.
“That pixie-cap on your bald
dome will take off one day.


Why the hell don’t you use
Vaseline on it? Or pussers’
tallow?”
He handed Swan his valise.
“Come on, Lofty. Make your-
self useful.”
“Useful!” snorted Swan. He
took the bag. “Great life for
some —lazing in the passenger’s
cabin, bung-up and bilge-free.
While I’ve been sweating my guts
out checking those damned
Furies aboard. That’s right-
show those beautiful teeth. But
your turn’s due, big boy.”
“How come?” asked Sher-
wood, as he bent his head to
clear the bulkhead lintel.
“We slip at eight in the morn-
ing. Jelly-belly’s anxious to get
the new kites tested.”
Sherwood halted outside his
cabin.
“Don’t see how that concerns
me.”
“You will,” promised Swan.
He heaved the valise in. “We
shipped four new Fireflies, And,
of course, you wouldn’t dream—
highly competent squadron-com-
mander that you are—of letting
anyone else test ’em. You and
your bright-eyed Ventner. But
then,” he went on, swinging his
short frame on to the bunk,
“it really doesn’t matter a damn
what you think. Those are Com-
mander Baumer’s desires—and
Commander Baumer's desires are
your orders. Is my assumption
correct?”
Sherwood sat down and pulled
out a cigarette-packet. He
looked round the comfortable
cabin, ignoring his friend’s
facetiousness.
“You know, Swannie —you
can give me the big ships. I
always liked a bit of room.”
“Talking of room,” Swan be-
gan. He leaned over and helped
himself to a cigarette. “Seems
you didn’t have too much where
you’ve come from? We inter-
cepted a few signals,” he grinned
in answer to Sherwood’s look.
“You didn’t get the full story,”
said Sherwood.
“But I will,” Swan assured
himself, grimacing.
He did. Sherwood began with
the remark: “Friend Brewster
is a damned fine destroyer-
driver,” and, after recounting
the minefield tow, ended with
the same assessment.
“I should have thought,” said
Swan dryly, “that you already
gathered I had the same impres-
sion.”
“Except,” answered Sher-
wood, “that we were saving a
valuable tanker . , .”
“Very funny,” snorted Swan.
“Well, old frankfurt, we’ll see
just how valuable we are—to-
morrow.”
He jumped to the deck.
“Just a minute,” Sherwood
halted him. “How’s young Vent-
ner? I can’t afford to crack-up
any of those Fireflies —for two
obvious reasons.”
“Oh, I think he’s 0.K.” Swan
answered. “Though I haven’t
seen much of him since we got
in. But he’ll manage. I’m off
for a snort. See you in the
bar?”
Sherwood nodded. After
Swan had gone, he sat there
musing, debating whether to
send for Ventner. After a
moment’s thought he decided
against it. If Ventner was still
worried about his domestic prob-
lems, Sherwood’s prying would
intensify it. There were no half-
measures in carrier-flying—either
you were fit to fly, or you
weren’t. As simple as that. He
would watch Ventner in the
morning. Then he would decide.
If he decided against, it meant
seeing the captain, Ventner’s
feelings regardless. Perhaps, he
thought, crushing out his cigar-
ette, he should have done that
earlier. Or, rather, seen
Baumer. Baumer must act on
his advice in an operational
matter like this. After all, the
Navy was experienced enough to
decide wisely in matters affect-
ing its own welfare—even in
such a local concern as this.
And Baumer’s —the Navy’s—de-
cision would take it out of young
Ventner’s undecided hands.
Good for both parties.
Glad of his decision, Sher-
wood stood up and pulled off
his shirt. The thought of his
shower turned his mind to what
he would do tonight. Natalie.
Suddenly Sherwood felt a defi-
nite disinclination to see her to-
night. Without trying to analyse
his feeling, he excused it on the
ground that he would need to
be fresh for the morning’s test-
ing. He would have to fly-off
and land several times, both free
take-off and from the catapult.
Added, of course, to target-prac-
tice on the spray-target towing
astern.
Another decision made, he
wrapped a bathrobe round his
lean muscled length and walked,
whistling, to the bathroom.
Natalie had seen the destroyer
flotilla come in, and had watched
them come to their -buoys.
Watching beside her from the
dispensary window. Beryl had
remarked :
“There’s only seven ships.
There were eight when they
went out. I remember counting
them. I wonder where the boy-
friend is—out or in?”
Natalie had smiled—with
superiority. Beryl noted.
“I’ll know soon enough,”
Natalie had said, settling her
cap with her long brown fingers.
“Sure of yourself, aren’t you?”
Beryl answered.
Natalie had started, momen-
tarily, at the phrase Dick had
used. Then she murmured, so
low that Beryl hardly heard:
“Yes, I’m sure of myself.”
But two hours later there was
no ring from Hawk. Off-duty,
reading in her neat, white-walled
room, Natalie was not worried.
Dick, obviously, was in the late
destroyer. That the ship might
have been permanently missing
did not occur to her —she knew
that ship-casualties in this war
were nil, as were, almost, per-
sonnel casualties.
When, late in the afternoon,
the lone destroyer nosed her way
in past the moored line and
shaped-up for her own buoy,
and Beryl came into her room
with the news, Natalie stretched
luxuriously and laid down her
book.
Beryl watched her.
“Well, my beauty, aren’t you
getting up to see the sailor re-
turned from the wars?”
Natalie put her hands behind
her golden head. She smiled
quizzically up at her colleague.
“He’ll ring,” she said com-
placently.
Beryl walked out. Just be-
fore dinner, three hours later, she
came in again, smiling mal-
iciously. Natalie was dressed,
sitUng cross-legged on the bed.
“You know,” said Beryl, cross-
ing to the wardrobe mirror,
“I’ve never known this nurses’-
quarters’ phone to be so abso-
lutely and definitely dead.”
Natalie did not answer.
“Except, that is,” Beryl went
on, walking to the door with her
hands behind her plump back.
“Except for a call for Beryl
Atkins from a certain Fury
pilot aboard a certain carrier.
Any message?”
Natalie swung her legs down
from the bed.
“Go to hell,” she snapped.
Beryl opened the door.
“That’s where I’m going,” she
smiled back, “but it’s lurvly on
the road down.”
She stepped out and closed the
door gently. Her lips were pursed
in a complacent little smile.
It was not often they were, in
connection with the beauty of the
blonde Natalie. But young Beryl
knows the value of restraint;
and a promise. Resist first, that’s
me. Then . . . And, for all your
golden curves, my lissom
beauty, young Beryl’s plan,
works,
Natalie stared a moment at the
closed door. Then she got up im-
patiently, and began to undress.
Even if he did ring now, he
could jump in the lake. She was
in her dressing-gown when a
nurse knocked, put her head in,
and said: “Phone, Sister,”
Natalie nodded. The head
withdrew. She stood there for
a second, one hand nervously
stroking her cheek, breathing
quickly. Then she walked defi-
nitely to the door and hurried
down the passage. She pulled
the booth-door shut, and lifted
the receiver,
“Yes?” she said.
“Oh, Sister Chalmers?
Matron here.” Natalie slumped
against the wall. A cold anger
narrowed her eyes.
“Yes, Matron,” she answered
levelly, and listened. “Yes, very
well. I’ll see to it. First thing
in the morning. Good-bye.”
Natalie walked slowly back
up the passage. Her long fingers
were clenched into tense fists.
You were sure of yourself,
weren't you, Dick ?
Just as sure as I am of you.
You know something, Dick ?
I don’t care how sure you were.
Natalie flung open the door as
the memory of the exchange
“Taj Mahal —and step on it!”
flushed her cheeks. You damned
fool! she thought, angrily. She
dropped on to the bed. First,
the inconsiderateness of omitting
to tell her himself he was leaving
on that damned destroyer. Now,
this ignoring. Her eyes filled, so
that she brushed them im-
patiently. They were tears of
anger.
Next morning the captain
climbed on to the flight-deck
from the ladder which led up
from the narrow catwalk outside
his cabin, right on Hawk’s stern.
He walked quickly and definitely
down the deck, an immaculately-
clad giant, the rings on his
shoulders glittering gold against
the white of his shirt, his cap
under his arm. That meant that
the men ranging Furies on deck,
running them off the big lifts as
they came slowly up, could con-
tinue with their work instead of
standing to attention as their
lord passed. The captain knew
to a nicety when ship's business
should take precedence over
Queen’s Regulations and Ad-
miralty Instructions,
He ducked his head, stepped
inside the bridge structure, and
ran up the three or four steep
steel ladders to the compass-
platform. On the first ladder a
petty-officer, about to come
down, sighted him and instantly
stepped back from the ladder.
The captain recognised the
courtesy with a nod. He stepped
on to the bridge.
The navigating-officer heard
him, turned, and saluted. Cap or
no cap, you saluted your captain
on first sighting every morning.
“Good-morning, sir,” the
navigator said.
“Morning, Pilot.” The captain
smiled, and held the other’s eyes
with his own till he had his re-
port on the readiness of main-
engines. Then he walked over
to where the commander was
giving his messenger an order.
The captain grinned widely, so
that the black hair on his cheeks
seemed to curl, as the messenger
hurried off the bridge.
The commander turned, saw
the grin, saluted formally, then
said in a low voice:
“That dratted telescope again!
I’ll get a lanyard rove round
the damned thing and lash it
to me waist!”
In a normal voice,'he added:
“Ready for slipping, sir. Singled
up forrard and aft. Tug hooked
11
on.
“Thank you, Commander.”
The captain glanced at the
slipping-party waiting on the pier
ahead and aft, and spoke briefly,
apparently to nobody in par-
ticular : “Obey telegraphs.”
At once the navigator, waiting
beside the voice-pipe that ran,
an extended throat, to the wheel-
house, and so to the engine-
room, bent and passed the order.
It meant that from now on
every order passed was to be
executed.
The captain did not wait for
his order to be repeated up from
the wheelhouse —the sun might
conceivably fail to rise, but not
the repeat of a wheel- or engine-
room order up a British Navy
voice-pipe—but, standing in re-
spected isolation at the forward
end of the bridge, gazing at the
tug, spoke over his shoulder;
“Let go forrard. Let go aft."
The tug sat her broad stern
well down in the water. She
heaved. The steel hawser
straightened from its slack
catenary to a solid bar. Water
shivered from it as it shook like
a terrier under the strain. Then
Hawk’s great flat nose began to
slide across the storied block of
the Commonwealth Hospital on
the hill a mile away. A calm,
debris-cluttered stretch of water
opened between her overhanging
side and the wharf. Swinging
sideways on the end of her wire,
the tug belched a lungful of black
smoke as she drew ahead of her
tow, so that now she was pulling
the big ship directly away from
the pier. A few minutes more
and Hawk was clear.
“Slip the tug,” said the cap-
tain.
The commander stepped to the
side of the bridge, waved his arms
above his head, then, seeing a
corresponding wave from the
straining dwarf below him,
showed his hands, palms up.
Two men ran to the tug’s to wing-
slip. One swung a hammer.
The taut steel wire recoiled, like
a whip, then, losing its energy,
dropped slackly into the water.
It was run-in swiftly—revolving
screws having a marked pen-
chant for dangling steel wire
ropes.
With the fairway clear, and
Hawk’s bulk pulsing under the
steam-enlivened thrust of her
great screws, the flight-deck
crews worked quickly to get
her new brood ranged, ready
for then testing.
Sherwood was walking aft
with Swan towards the banked
layers of aircraft when he re-
membered Ventner. He looked
over towards the pom-pom plat-
form abaft the bridge, to where
a group of pilots were adjusting
Mae Wests and helmet-straps,
laughing and talking with youth-
ful irresponsibility. Sherwood
checked. Standing apart from
the others, leaning against the
pom-pom platform, his arms
folded across his chest and star-
ing at the deck, he saw Ventner.
The youngster’s face was brood-
ing.
“What’s up?” Swan queried,
waiting beside his friend.
“Ventner,” answered Sher-
wood briefly. “Go on, will you?
I won’t be a moment.”
He left Swan and strolled
casually across to the pilots.
Several looked at him, smil-
ing good-morning. Sherwood
chatted with them a moment,
then, with a final; “Remember,
I want careful handling today
—for your sakes, and, more im-
portant, the aircrafts’,” he made
to pass on. As though without
design, he eased his walk when
he got to Ventner, some fifteen
feet apart from the others.
“Good-morning, Ventner,” he
greeted him. “All well?”
The youngster looked up, life-
lessly.
“Good - morning,” he
answered formally, and looked
away towards the stern.
“Ventner.”
Sherwood’s voice was quiet,
kindly. “Sir?”
“You are all right? You don’t
look . . .” Sherwood’s voice
trailed off as he saw the look on
the other’s face. Ventner stared
wildly round at the deck, looked
aft again, then suddenly swung
his stare to fix Sherwood in the
eyes.
“It seemed to me that . . .”
Sherwood started.
He was shut-up abruptly by
the other’s voice, low, tense,
delivered through his shut
teeth.
“For God’s sake let me
alone! ”
The kindliness in the Strike
Leader’s face hardened instantly
into a grim mask. It was the
first time in his career he had
been spoken to like that by a
junior officer. Even as he
opened his trap of a mouth to
deliver the blast he realised, with
something of a shock, the real
extent of Ventner’s worry—he
must be half demented to speak
to a lieutenant-commander like
that. There had been, Sher-
wood remembered, a mail in that
morning. He shut his lips tightly
and without a word wheeled and
strode for the bridge.
.Only then did Ventner realise,
fully, what he had said. He saw
his squadron-commander disap-
pear into the bridge structure—
obviously to arrange to have
him up there in double-quick
time. Ventner slumped against
the gun-platform. Though there
was misery in his face, there
was, as well, rebellion in his
eyes. Damn them! Let them
do their damnedest! Even as his
thoughts formed, he knew them
for the sham they were. He
turned, so that his back was to
the others, unconscious of the
drama enacted so near, and
stared unseeingly and miserably
at the white wake slashing the
blue of the sea,
“Oh, God! Brenda . . .” he
whispered. He brushed his eyes
angrily. He was only a
youngster.
Making the bridge, Sherwood
slowed down to a normal walk,
crossed behind the navigator at
the voice-pipe, eased his bulk
through a narrow door in the
port side, and stepped down into
the flying-commander’s position,
perched on the side of the bridge
overlooking the expanse of the
flight-deck.
“Commander Baumer, he
said. . .
Baumer turned. “What is it?
(Continued on page 35)


The Cradle of Australia
Macquarie-place and
A Royal Occasion
By M. H. ELLIS
ON February 5, at 4.40
p.m., the Queen and the
Duke of Edinburgh will
plant two London plane-
trees at the south-eastern corner
of Macquarie-place in Sydney
to inaugurate the proposed 189-
mile-long Remembrance Drive
which is to be created along the
highway to Canberra.
The scheme is an imaginative
brain-child of the Garden Club
of Australia backed by Lieut.-
General Frank Berryman, and
is designed to provide a
memorial to Australians who
gave their lives in World War II
and in Korea. Perhaps in the
future the sacrifices of other
wars may be commemorated in
it. The plan provides for a sort
of living monument which need
not remain congealed in its
original form. Its treelined high-
way, its groves and its attendant
parks can be altered or added to
as convenient and appropriate.
With the variety of scenery, of
mountain and valley and plain
offering between Sydney and
Canberra, it is capable of being
developed into one of the
world’s most beautiful roads.
Most of the way almost virgin
bush skirts the roadside in a yet-
swiftly-developing area, so that
there are none of the difficulties
to contend with which would
face the promoters of a similar
project in Europe or the more
thickly populated parts of
America or Asia.
The work can be done reason-
ably cheaply. Even with the
present high costs it is esti-
mated by the promoters that any
relative can plant an enduring
memorial to a soldier and have
it maintained permanently for
£lO. If the scheme is not a suc-
cess, more especially since it has
hearty official co-operation and
will add to the amenities of
every municipal area which it
touches, it will be little credit to
the Commonwealth.
The new Royal Highway will
begin at the obelisk in Mac-
quarie-place which is the cradle
of Australian history and civi-
lisation, and end in Canberra,
the capital city, the establish-
ment of which in 1927 set the
coping-stone on Australian
nationality—its foundation was
laid in 1913 as the old colonial
Australia was dying and the new
nationally-conscious Australia
was about to be born with the
formation of the Australian Im-
perial Force. It might therefore
be said that the road will sym-
bolically lead from the place of
the very beginnings of Aus-
tralian history to the place of
the achievement of its maturity.
It is infinitely fitting that it
should begin where it is to be-
gin ; for no other country per-
haps can pin-point so clearly
and definitely the exact piece
of earth on which its civilisation
secured a foothold as Australia’s
can be pin-pointed in Mac-
quarie-place and its environs.
There is little doubt but that the
spot on which the first settlers
in Australia permanently landed
was at the northern end of Mac-
quarie-place. The waters of
Sydney Cove in 1788 came much
farther south than in the present
day. The higher ground of the
shoreline formed a shelf run-
ning through part of the land
on which the Customs House
now stands and behind the
Paragon Hotel. A prominent
point, fringed on the east by a
sloping and sandy beach, lay
diagonally across the frontage
on which the hotel stands, ter-
minating just in front of its pre-
sent site.
David Collins, the Judge-
Advocate and Government
Secretary, tells how the little
Supply, with the advance-guard
of the settlement—Marines, arti-
ficers from H.M.S. Sirius,
whose anchor is now set up in
Macquarie-place near the site
FIRST PLAN OF SYDNEY
This is part of Lieutenant Bradley’s scaled plan of Sydney looking south
dated March 1, 1788—35 days after the landing. The flagstaff is shown
near where the Customs House stands at the foot of Macquarie-place.
The beach-line is about 420 feet from the Governor’s canvas house, which
stood on, or nearly on, the site where the Royal Memorial Drive trees
will be planted on February 5.
where the Queen and the Duke
will plant the Royal trees —and
a few convict laborers, anchored
off the mouth of the Cove on
the evening of January 25, 1788.
He continues:
.... The following: day sufficient
ground was cleared for encamping
the officer’s guard and the convicts
who had been landed in the_ morn-
ing. The spot chosen for this pur-
pose was at the head of the Cove,
near the run of fresh water, which
stole silently along through a very
thick wood, the stillness of which
had then, for the first time since the
Creation, been interrupted by the
rude sound of the laborer’s axe, and
the downfall of its ancient inhabi-
tants.... In the evening of this
day the whole of the party that
came round in the Supply were
assembled at the point where they
had first landed in the morning, and
on which a flagstaff had been pur-
posely erected and an Union Jack
displayed, when the Marines fired
several vollies; between which the
Governor and the officers who accom-
panied him drank the healths of
his Majesty and the Royal Family,
and success to the new Colony. The
day which had been uncommonly
fine concluded with the safe arrival
of the Sirius and the convoy from
Botany Bay—thus terminating the
voyage with the same good fortune
that had from its commencement
been so conspicuously their friend
and companion.
A glance at the maps of the
Cove drawn in 1788 is sufficient
to show that a landing at “the
head of the Cove” must have
been made on the east side of
the Tank Stream, since on the
west side it had no “head,” the
coast running due south or
thereabouts in line with the bank
of the stream. Collins, however,
in setting-out the dispositions of
the settlement, makes the matter
even clearer by further state-
ments concerning landings on
subsequent days in which he in-
variably specifies the fact when
anything is sited west of the
rivulet:
The detachment of Marines was
encamped at the head of the Cove
near the stream, and on the West
side was placed the main body of
the convicts.... Tents of the sick
were placed on the West side.
The map of Sydney made
by Lieutenant Bradley 35
days after the landing, and the
sketch of Captain John Hunter
made in August following, both
show the position of the flag-
staff at the northern base of
what is now Macquarie-place,
and the placements of the guard,
etc., as described by Collins, in
its environs. The flag continued
to fly there till 1791 at least.
Thus in Macquarie-place, not
to be so named for more than
20 years, the first permanent
clearing in Australia was
the foundations of the city of
Sydney and the Commonwealth
of Australia were laid. There
the first flagstaff was erected,
the Union Jack first flown in a
regular position, the first guards
set, the first buildings erected,
the first Royal Toasts drunk.
And there, too, on the eastern
side, the first ground was pre-
pared and “the grape, the fig,
the orange and the pear and the
apple took root” in what was
presently to be the Government
House Garden. A tradi-
tion first heard of in print
in the 1840’s declared
that the first canvas house
of Governor Phillip, pre-
fabricated by Smith, of
St. George’s Fields, in
London, occupied the site
of the obelisk. On the
evidence of Bradley’s
scale-map of Sydney dated
March 1, 1788, the tradi-
tion was not far wrong.
The canvas house, in fact,
seems to have been
erected almost on the very
spot on which the Royal
ceremony will take place.
Phillip came ashore to
live there almost 166
years to the day before the
Queen’s arrival is due in
Sydney. The first Royal
ceremony on the spot was
the celebration of June 4,
King George Ill’s birth-
day, 1788, at which the
first county in Australia
(Cumberland) was created,
named and its limits for-
mally defined. The first
store was put up near
where the flagstaff stood
hard by where the Place
begins on the north. Ad-
jacent was the first wharf
in the Commonwealth. At
the southern end of the
open space the first bridge,
that across the Tank
Stream ‘in what is now
Bridge-street, was erected.
The first private shop
was opened near the wharf
in 1790 by the captain of
the Lady Juliana.
From the beginning the Mac-
quarie-place area was an
official district. Government
House gates soon opened into its
south-eastern corner. The resi-
dences of the Judge-Advocate
and Secretary, the Commissary
and the chaplain lined its
southern side so that it was the
native place of administration
and justice in Australia. But
it was still for a couple of
decades a rude spot, even
though, as near as possible to
the water, the first great mer-
chants—Simeon Lord, Thomas
Reiby and Andrew Thompson,
the convict-boy who had been
transported at 16 for burning
a stack of straw and died at 37
the colony’s richest magnate —
had homes and warehouses.
It had seen much history
when Macquarie arrived, in-
cluding the march of the New
South Wales Corps to arrest
Bligh, which had gone right
past the spot on which the new
memorial avenue will begin;
and anything could happen
there. Mr. Ellis Bent, the new
Judge-Advocate who came in
1810, was sometimes discon-
certed by the sight of dusky
aboriginal faces peeping above
naked bodies through the
window-panes of Mr. Thomp-
son’s house, which he in-
habited. And Dean William
Macquarie Cowper, who was
born on the southern side of the
Place on July 3, 1810, and was
nearly drowned in the well on
the site of the Mort statue, was
able to carry into the year after
Queen Victoria died and
Federation was founded a
memory of having seen a wild
and naked bridegroom dragging
his senseless bride across the
leafy space to “some hiding-
place” after having married her
with a nulla-nulla, according to
current native custom.
Macquarie was not long in
altering this state of affairs. He
shared with General Berryman,
his latest successor in the N. S.
Wales Military Command, a pas-
sion for tree-planting and civic
improvement—he was indeed
the introducer of the idea of
arboreal beautification to Aus-
tralia. Quickly he proclaimed
all land bounded by the present
line of Young-street on the east,
of Bridge-street on the south
and of the Tank Stream bank-
allotments on the west to be a
public park bearing his name.
The warehouses on the north
and the bushes alike were con-
demned to go at once. The
original hovel-like houses of
officialdom standing back from
the present alignment on the
southern side were to give way
to dwellings more worthy of the
colony’s advanced state. And
the decree was issued just in
time to allow the wetting of the
head of the new Place, the first
Australian park (for the
new Hyde Park was for long
afterwards only a parade-
ground and racecourse), at the
initial race-ball in Australian
history held in the mansion of
Simeon Lord on the south-
western corner where the Bank
of New South Wales now faces
the Royal Exchange.
Mr. Lord, in particular, had
good cause to rejoice at the re-
sumptions of property necessary
to carry out the scheme. Though
his warehouse near the wharf
was quickly pulled down, he
succeeded in delaying the dis-
cussion of compensation for a
couple of decades, after which
he received 28,000 acres of land
west of the Blue Mountains as
the price of his sacrifice.
Within a year real roads were
being surveyed out of Mac-
quarie-place. Mr. Ellis Bent,
the Judge-Advocate, had begun
to alter its southern face by
building himself a mansion and
court - room. Mr. Andrew
SYDNEY IN 1788
Lieutenant William Bradley's sketch in color, "Sydney Cove, Port Jackson, 1788" The position
of the flagstaff seems to be at the northern base of Macquarie-place. Old stone Government House,
begun july, 1788 is seen in construction on the left mnear the corner of present Bridge and
Phillip-streets. Pictures reprodneed by courtesy the Mitchell Library, Sydney.


THE ALLERGY DESTROYING TABLETS
AS-MO-LETS
FOR INSTANT RELIEF FROM
HAY FEVER
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
MIGRAINE
HEADACHES
AS-MO-LETS give soothing, instant relief from Hay Fever
. . , Asthma . . . Bronchitis . . . Nervous Headaches
and all forms of Sinus and Migraine distress. These
dreaded and painful conditions are caused by an allergy,
either to flower pollen . . . house dust or other minute
organisms in the atmosphere. AS-MO-LET tablets attack
the basic cause of your complaint and ease breathing
. . . relieve congestion . . . stimulate healthy sleep and
appetite and DESTROY YOUR ALLERGY.
AS-MO-LETS
The Miracle Tablets
Distributors: Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd.
Union Bank Chambers, 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
86 a bottle
AS-MO-LETS ONLY FROM YOUR CHEMIST
AS.3
PERFECTION for new engines
PROTECTION for old
RECOMMENDED BV
ROLLS-ROYCE
THE GOOIICOMPANIONS
For top-up oi| >// change
choose ENERmpL
I
the ‘Good C mpanion*
of C.O.R Mfr OR SPIRIT at |
INDEPENDENT
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LTD.
£l66
Thompson’s mansion was re-
placed by a red-brick parsonage
after his death in 1810. The
first building by a qualified
architect resident in the colony
was planned by Mr. Daniel
Dering Mathew in 1812-13 and
put up across the road from the
site of the memorial trees as a
residence and office for the
Governor’s Secretary. Francis
Greenway completed the
grandeur of the Place by
adding to its already unsur-
passed edifices a splendid and
beautiful residence for Mr.
Justice Barron Field, the
“distant correspondent” of
Charles Lamb’s essays, a former
dramatic critic of “The Times”
and the author of the first book
of poems written in Australia, of
which an envious critic wrote:
Thy poems, Barron Field, I’ve read
And thus adjudge their meed
So poor a crop proclaims thy head
A barren field indeed.
His house was on the old
parsonage site where the Lands
Office now stands.
On July 1, 1816, Mr. Nicholas
Delaney’s gang of laborers be-
gan clearing and levelling the
central part of the Place “pre-
paratory to its being enclosed by
a dwarf stone wall and paling
in the form of a triangle.” Thus
it took its familiar shape, though
embracing twice as much ground
as at present. On September 19
following a contract was signed
with Edward Cureton, stone-
mason, to “erect a very hand-
some stone obelisk in the centre
of Macquarie-place as an orna-
ment to this part of the town
and also for the purpose of mea-
suring the miles from to [sic]
all interior parts of the colony.”
It was to cost £B5 sterling and
to be completed within six
months from date according to
the plan and elevation of Mr.
Greenway. The obelisk has a
likeness to one on Clifton Com-
mon in England, the centre of
Mr. Greenway’s activities be-
fore he left his country for his
country’s good. But the actual
inspiration seems to have come
to him from a Royal monument
in Bath —erected by Nash in
the Orange Garden as a com-
pliment to the Prince of Orange,
who had presented him with a
gold snuff-box encrusted with
jewels.
Alas, the obelisk was not
finished until 1818. And the
fountain which Mr. Greenway
designed under the close super-
vision of Mrs. Macquarie to
stand on the spot whence it was
removed ultimately to make way
for the statue of T. S. Mort was
finished not long afterwards.
Both were meat for shocked
horror with J. T. Bigge, the
Commissioner who inquired into
the affairs of the colony 1819-21.
What did a convict camp need
with such adornments?
“temples round pumps,” Mr.
Henry Grey Bennet, M.P., called
the local fountains. Macquarie
was compelled to defend him-
self and to remark that he did
not “think the little unadorned
obelisk, placed as it was, at a
point from whence distances
were to be measured and ren-
dered at a trifling expense,
somewhat ornamental to the
town, meriting any censure.”
Major Taylor’s colored draw-
ings of Sydney (1821) show
what Macquarie-place looked
like at the end of the Mac-
quarie era. It embraced land
right up to the present Young-
street on the east. The obelisk
stood in its treeless centre. On
the south stood the great houses
of the officials already men-
tioned. On the west from
Bridge-street were Mr. Lord’s
mansion, Other’s felt-hat fac-
tory, the parsonage inhabited by
the Cowpers, Browne’s wool-
broking business, the pioneer of
its kind which functioned until
remembered times, a business
through which in the eighteen-
twenties the Macarthurs began
to ship their fleeces. Last in
the line was the Bank of N. S.
Wales, the first incorporated
company and bank in the Aus-
tralian antipodes, and beyond
that Greenway’s beginnings of
Circular Quay.
One July day in 1820 the
band of the 48th Regiment
marched down through Mac-
quarie-place to St. Phillip’s
Church, its colors and drums
draped in black playing the
“Dead March in Saul” for King
George 111, leading the first
official mourning for a monarch
on Australian soil.
And Mr. J. T. Campbell,
Provost-Marshal, rode through
the Place with a retinue, and
at the northern end, where the
foundations of the colony had
been inaugurated and the flag
first flown, read the first procla-
mation of a new sovereign to
be heard in the Australian anti-
podes.
In a slightly later day, in Sep-
tember, 1824, Mr. W. C. Went-
worth opened the first practising
barrister’s chambers in the
colony in the Place down near
the wharf, and from there con-
ducted his fight for the freedom
of the Press and responsible
government. The great organis-
ing chartered company which
opened up the Hunter and the
North Coast, the A.A. Com-
pany, and Potter Mac Queen, of
Segenhoe, first importer of
known purebred pedigreed beef-
cattle, had their headquarters in
Macquarie-place, which till the
1850’s extended to the water’s
edge.
But of all that was built there
in the earliest times the only
remaining feature is the obelisk.
It is Australia’s first and oldest
monument. It bears on its face
a list of the roads which Mac-
quarie laid down before 1818,
through what had before his
time been an almost trackless
wilderness.
The first of these was made to
South Head in 1811 by soldiers
of the 73rd Regiment (Second
Battalion, Black Watch), heroes
of Seringapatam, the first fight-
ting Line regiment to be drafted
to the country. Then came the
roads to Parramatta and Wind-
sor, to Liverpool and Emu
Ford. After Mr. Blaxland had
walked through the Place to
announce the crossing of the
Blue Mountains the great Blue
Mountains road was laid down
by Captain Cox, lately of the
N. S. Wales Corps, with Lieu-
tenant Hobby as his second-in-
charge, under a guard of soldiers
from the 46th (South Devon)
Regiment to protect him and
his workers from blacks and
bushrangers. Finally (not
recorded) came the great high-
way to the verges of
Federal Territory built in
1820-21 by Dr. Charles Throsby,
discoverer of the Murrum-
bidgee, whose estate at Glen-
field, beyond Liverpool, marches
with the newly planned Royal
road and might well merit some
special attention and marking
in the completion of the plan.
Macquarie was the first Gov-
ernor and the first general
officer to pass over that highway
as far as Lake George. If his
spirit is at liberty to be in Mac-
quarie-place at 4.40 p.m. on
February 5 it will undoubtedly
be there silently shaking hands
with General Berryman, with
whom the Old Governor had so
much in common as the first
tree-planter and developer of
military and civic amenities.
The project sets the seal on
his work as a road-builder begun
in exactly the same spot as that
on which General Berryman’s
project will have its official birth
in the little park which is ths
cradle of Australia, a name
which he was the first to attach
officially to this continent in a
dispatch written on April 4,
1817, only a hundred yards
from where the memorial trees
will grow.
LONELINESS
Loneliness is a great, grey cat
Stalking on sure feet
In a darkened room;
Making its habitat
In dullness, moving in gloom,
Twitching its whiskers eagerly,
Noting the beat
Of a pulsing silence; sliding
Around all solid things,
Gliding
Soft as the final breath
Breathed by a dying man—
Slowly and meagrely.
And suddenly, with no sound.
Easing a claw from sheath
And slashing a cut that can
In an instant’s space
Open a gaping wound
In the universe, darken a man’s
face.
And leave him shocked, con-
founded,
Groping, flat.
Bounded
By a vast eternity which sings
Unfeelingly of one-and-onlyness.
And like a great grey cat,
Purring,
Unstirring,
Sits Loneliness.
PAPUA.
KIT DENTON.


SPORTING NOTIONS
Though moderates cluttered-
up some fields at Rosehill, most
of the backers found the wih-
ners. Four favorites and two
second-favorites got home in
the eight races. Four favorites
also won at the previous Rose-
hill meeting. The track is get-
ting a reputation as a punters’
course, and there’ll be a third
successive meeting there on
Saturday.
Caulfield punters found the
going tough with 25-to-l Lee-
holme, 16-to-l Home Regis and
12-to-l Rocket Gun in the list
of winners. Hall Prince, winner
of the opening event, shared
favoritism with Tres Vite, but
all other seven favorites were
defeated. Apprentice P. King
hit the headlines with three
winners. He is indentured to
V. O’Neill.
• • s *
A promising run was made
by heavily-named two-year-old
colt Tsajadyne in the Rosehill
sprint won by Prince Jambo.
He had started only once be-
fore. Next time out he isn’t
likely to be at 50 to 1. His
name is part of Tsaoko, his
sire, and Ajadyne, his dam.
With Australia’s best horses
to race in the S.T.C. Stakes at
Rosehill next Saturday, later in
the Queen Elizabeth Stakes in
Sydney and in Melbourne, as
well as in major handicaps in
the autumn, a new time-record
or two may be established.
Tracks now are faster, and
Randwick is at its best for the
Royal visit.
Three Randwick records were
made last year. Jan ran 2\
miles in 3.48 in April, in Octo-
ber Silver Phantom ran a mile
in 1.34*, and Spear by ran six
furlongs in 1.9£ a week later.
Fast tracks and top-line per-
formers will mean attractive
racing this autumn. Silver
Phantom’s mile is Australia’s
best, but Aurie’s Star, a grand
sprinter of 14 years or so ago,
ran six furlongs at Flemington
in September, 1940, in I.Bi.
Carioca is topweight for the
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes, 6 fur-
longs (January 30), and the
Anniversary Handicap, \\ miles
(two furlongs less than the usual
distance) on February 1. He
has 9.12 in the sprint and 9.13
in the other. He will most
likely be started in the Anni-
versary. Raconteur has his
share with 9.9 in the Challenge,
in which there is a likely lot—
Karendi, Spearby, Birdwood,
Gay Vista, Silver Phantom and
Tarien. Advocate, winner of
the Rosehill January Handicap
with 9st., is similarly weighted
for the Anniversary and could
be hard to beat. This could be
the most keenly-contested Anni-
versary Handicap for many
years, as the field includes
several horses in their final try-
outs for the Queen -Elizabeth
Stakes.
• • • •
Roseview, unexpected winner
of the Maiden Juvenile at New-
castle, is a daughter of Corona-
tion Day (imp.) and Rosary by
Hua from Radiant Rose, by
Excitement (imp.). Hydrogen
figures in the family-lines as
does Golden Voice (dam of Gal-
lant Archer). Roseview cost
270gns. as a yearling.
Crevasse, winner, and Swords-
man, runner-up,. in the High-
weight at Caulfield, are from
the same stable, and both were
heavily backed, Swordsman at
3’s, Crevasse at 13 to 2. The
horses have different owners.
Each was ridden by a leading
jockey, the winner by Ralph
and Swordsman by Williamson.
Each had won two starts earlier.
Crevasse is a four-year-old stal-
lion by Avalanche (imp.) from
Teleran by Marconigram (imp.),
and has a staying pedigree. As
a yearling he cost 1050gns. King
Ingoda figures in the bloodlines.
Keeping Bon Rouge fit for
racing is no easy problem ; he
has a shaky off-foreleg. The
son of Actor (imp.) and Ala-
meda (imp.) had to be put aside
after falling in Silver Phantom’s
A.J.C. Epsom, but he recovered
after persistent treatment and
ran a good fourth at Randwick
earlier in the month. A big
horse who races with a protec-
tive padded boot on the shaky
leg, he came out in the Rose-
hill Welter and won well by a
head from the favorite Con-
naught. The winner was backed
from 7 to 2 to 2 to 1 and at one
stage was sharing favoritism.
Bon Rouge has 8.0 in both the
Challenge and Anniversary.
Leeholme, 25-to-l winner of
the Caulfield Berwick Handicap,
is by Scorpion (imp.) from
Night Crag by Felcrag (imp.).
The filly goes back to a noted
and unbeaten performer of the
early 1880’s, Grand Flaneur, and
if her breeding-lines count she
should later show staying ability.
A first foal, she comes from
the family which produced
Whittier, Accarak, Patron and
Patroness.
• • • •]
The Melbourne Cup winner
Wodalla has resumed training
in Melbourne for autumn rac-
ing. Most other leading gal-
lopers are now hard at it for
the big autumn events. Wodalla
may be produced at Caulfield,
as he has progressed since re-
joining R. Sinclair’s team.
Wodalla’s mission could be the
Duke of Edinburgh £5OOO Gold
Cup, 17f furlongs, to be run
the day the Queen visits Flem-
ington.
The Parisian (Melbourne
Cup), Wolawa (V.R.C. Derby
and both Legers) and Bronze
Eagle (N.Z. Derby) all appear in
the family-lines of Seaside, who
opened his winning account in
the Rosehill Maiden (9f.) at
33’s. Seaside is trained by J.
Green, who also trains Silver
Phantom and some other good
gallopers. Seaside was a 200gns.
yearling and is by Sea Tonic
(imp.) from Merry Lyn by
Merry Matthew (imp.) from
Harinesta by Harinero (imp.)
and traces back to Bobadil.
Captain Dash, a useful sort
a couple of years ago, may soon
be seen under colors again—
ridden by the clerk-of-the-
course. Given a trial at this
job at Rosehill last Saturday he
appeared to pass. A six-year-
old gelding by Dashing Cava-
lier, he is built on generous
lines. Blank Music, whose best
performance was to win the
Anniversary last year from Grey
Boots and Waterlady, may this
year be seen in the show-ring.
Heavier jockeys welcome the
A.J.C.’s decision that the top-
weight at acceptance-time for
any handicap in Sydney will not
be less than 8.12. Present ruling
is 8.7. The new rulb operates
from February 1 and means
that fewer horses will have to
carry overweight. Most appren-
tices can go to scale at the 7st.
limit, but official records dis-
close that fully-fledged jockeys
who can accept a mount at or
near 7st. could be counted on
the fingers of one hand.
J. J. Leahy, of Sarcherie
fame, was represented by the
little-known stallion Surmise,
who came home fast for third
money in Rosehill Maiden.
Surmise hasn’t done much rac-
ing, which could be in his favor,
though he is now a five-year-
old. He is by Bachelor Son
from Sarchex, a daughter of
Sarcherie and Excitement (imp.).
Gay Confessor, recent Rand-
wick Juvenile winner, is a
half-brother to the speedy Gay
Vista and carries similar colors.
Both are trained at Rosebery by
Leo O’Sullivan. Gay Confessor
showed ability to run out the
six furlongs, longest race of the
Sydney two-year-old season up
to then and on a rain-affected
track. He appeared a bit lucky
to down topweight Beresford
Hope. Gay Confessor is by
Confessor from Gay Fault.
Timarua, who ran a South
American record of 2.2 f for If
mile, and won other races in
Uruguay, is a product of the
Koatanui stud, Wanganui (N.Z.),
and was sold at the 1951 yearling
sales at Wellington. He is by
Timanova (imp.) from Screen
by Spiral from Motley by Absurd
(imp.). This should make com-
petition for his yearling brother
on the second day of
New Zealand’s national yearling
sale. The colt to be sold is
closely related to Battledress
(N.Z. Derby and 10 other wins),
and Nizam’s Ring (V.R.C. Oaks)
figures in the pedigree.
* * *
“J.H.”: At Clare (S. Aus.) two
batsmen hit 12 sixes off succes-
sive balls! Murray Hocking
started by belting a six off each
ball of an over, and at the change
“Tubby” McFarlane treated the
“Break it down, Otto —we don't have duellin'
in this country.”
first four from the next bowler
the same way. With Hocking’s
158 and McFarlane’s 97 Clare
made 334.
In a match in the Adelaide
turf A 1 competition Ken Webb
took the middle-stump with each
of four successive balls, finishing
with 7 for 33. He’s played once
for S. Aus. —1 for 63.
“Bosey”: In a Melbourne one-
day pennant match with even
batting-time for each side
Essendon was 9-179 when its
time expired. Then just as
Carlton with 4-178 got a single
off the third ball, the umpires
called time. It seems unusual to
draw stumps in the middle of an
over (unless a wicket has fallen),
but that’s how it went and the
match was a tie.
“K.R.”: N.S.W. has played
Tassie 10 times —five times in
Hobart, five times in Sydney,
and Tassie’s only win was in
1905. The last game between
them was in 1930, so another is
long overdue.
“Zorok”: Former Westralian
Sheffield Shield opener Lester
Charlesworth (he played in seven
State games three or four years
ago, highest score 122 against
Queensland in 1949) figured
recently in two century partner-
ships with tailenders in Perth
pennant cricket. Against North
Perth, with West Perth at 9-142,
Charlesworth and Max Puckett
put on 127 for the last wicket
(C. 151, P. 16 not out), and three
weeks later, against South Perth,
he and Bruce Webb ran up 113
for West’s seventh wicket
(C. 87, W. 46). Puckett and
Webb are 18-year-olds.
At Junee (N.S.W.) three
bowlers, two brothers on one
side and an opposing bowler,
got hat-tricks. Wisden does not
record any such instance in first-
class cricket, but four men have
each taken two hat-tricks in the
one game. Most remarkable
effort in this line is Australian
Albert Trott’s hat-trick and four
wickets with successive balls in
the one innings, for Middlesex
v. Somerset in 1907. The match
was Trott’s benefit.
“Algol”: The bowlers’ prac-
tice of polishing the ball on their
clothes aroused comment in
England during the recent Test
series. The South Africans, on
their Australian tour, sometimes
overdid the polishing. When-
ever the ball was returned to the
captain, Cheetham, he polished
it vigorously until the bowler
had almost reached his mark.
When McGlew, the vice-captain,
was in charge, his reluctance to
hand the ball over until the
polishing was completed at times
almost held up the game.
“Mid-on”: There are two
Dean Trowses at present playing
in Adelaide’s A-grade cricket.
The Kensington one is the inter-
state batsman, whom South
Australians think will play for
Australia. The other one, from
Port Adelaide, is better known
as an Aussie Rules footballer.
In St. Kilda club’s first-grade
team (Melbourne) there are two
John Edwardses. To distinguish
them one is always listed as John
Edwards, the other as Jack
Edwards.
• • • •
“Prof.”: A big-hitter himself,
recently retired Doug Ring
wasn’t afraid of being “hit.”
He was a cagey bowler, too.
In the first Test against West
Indies, bowling the last over
one day, he dismissed Wor-
rell and then, when Goddard
came in to “nightwatch,” sent up
on purpose a full-toss first ball
which the surprised Goddard
drove straight back into his
hands. According to A. G.
Moyes’s Australian Bowlers,, “If
the batsman was one of the
stodgy type Ring has been known
deliberately to bowl a slow full-
toss just to see if he was asleep
or merely incapable of swinging
the bat aggressively.”
• • • •
“R.W.”: The Sheffield Shield
match at M.C.G. between Vic-
toria and Queensland was a
family affair. There were three
Harvey brothers, Neil and Ray
for Vic., and Mick for Queens-
land ; two Archer brothers, Ken
and Ron, for Queensland, and
two Maddocks brothers, Ten and
Dick, for Victoria. A commen-
tator’s and reporter’s nightmare
if ever there was one. There
must be few other instances to
equal it.
• • • •
“K.R.”: Only four other Aus-
tralians besides Morris have
made 50 first-class centuries.
Bradman, Hassett, Macartney
and Bardsley. Morris has natur-
ally been compared to Bardsley
(both being left-hand Test open-
ing batsmen), but good judges
who have seen both declare that
Bardsley did not have the same
fluency of stroke-play as does
Morris. Bardsley (136 and 130,
at The Oval in 1909) and Morris
(122 and 324 not out, at Adel-
aide in 1946-47) are the only Aus-
tralians who have* scored two
centuries in a Test against Eng-
land.
• • • •
The Hassett testimonial at
M.C.G. turned out to be a picnic
affair with runs scored in fours
and sixes, big scores, bowlers hit
all over the place and every-
body generally enjoying them-
selves. First-innings scores:
Morris’s XI, 562, Hassett’s XI,
415. In a sense it would seem
a bit silly to include the scores
in the 1953-54 averages.
* * $
John Tandy, the champion
miler, went to Melbourne’s
Olympic Park on Saturday and
was 2\ yards behind Ten Mcßae,
a Malvern runner, at the end of
an 880. Mcßae cut it out in
1.52.1, which beats the Austra-
lian residential record by 3 / 10th
second and the Vic. open record
by 7/10th®%econd.
• • • •
Amongst the athletes beginn-
ing to tune-up for the 1956
Olympics is Kevin McMahon,
now 20 years old, a Western
Suburbs (Sydney) youth, who
threw himself over 6ft. sin. at
Moore Park. That’s the highest
high-jump this season, is an inch
better than the Empire Games
high-jump standard, and made
McMahon the only athlete to
equal E.G. standard at the
Sydney meet.
• * • •
In making his 6ft. sin. high-
jump at Sydney’s Moore Park
McMahon visibly cheered-up
when officials transferred the
take-off from the cinders to the
grass.
Butchart, the young Sydney
sprinter who is among N.S.W.’s
best Olympic contenders, failed
by a tenth of a second to make
Empire Games standard last
Saturday. He ran the 440 in
48.1.
• » • •
Ted McGlynn, who came out
of Parkes (N.S.W.) to show
metropolitan athletes what speed
the plains breeds, just beat the
flying Baillie for the N.S.W.
100yds. championship. Time,
9.7. McGlynn is as yet un-
attached to any athletic club,
Baillie is a Northern Suburbs
member and Reede (third) runs
for University.
• * V
“Double-fault”: Vic Seixas,
gentleman on and off the court,
has been in each of the last three
U.S. teams here to play for the
Davis Cup, and played in the
challenge-round each time. In
1951 he beat Mervyn Rose (as
did Schroeder) and last year he
chalked-up U.S.’s only win
(against McGregor) in Aus-
tralia’s 4-1 victory. Had he been
able this year to gain one win,
the Cup would have changed
hands.
• • • •
“Kooyong”: Rex Hartwig, a
certainty for this year’s Aus-
tralian touring tennis team, was
left out of last year’s tourists, but
got a trip through public sub-
scription. He returned vastly
improved, with good ground-
strokes, a strong service and a
reliable backhand to back his
sound volleying. Though
Hartwig is looked upon as a Vic-
torian, his home-town is Albury
(N.S.W.) and it was Albury
people who paid for his trip
overseas. But then, Albury is
only an N.S.W. town in politics.
“Veryl”: There was an inter-
national atmosphere about the
final of the South Australian
junior boys tennis doubles: Jean
Grinda (France) and W. Knight
(England) played M. Davies
(Wales) and M. Anderson (Aus-
tralia). The Leek and the Wattle
triumphed, whateffer.


High-up in New Guinea
Look —No Pants!
By JACK LUSBY
A COUNTRY is discovered
as often as a new bloke
goes there; and as the
newest in this neck of re-
moter New Guinea you rank
high up as a discoverer. You’re
high up, anyway. On a map the
island rears like a dinosaur, and
you’re on its nobbly spine.
The plane you came in from
Goroka kon-tikied through an
hour or so of rocketing blue
peaks, with clouds spiked on
them as though for future refer-
ence. You’re surprised in this
upright scenery that the joystick-
juggler finds a second-gear slope
to land on.
He turns and blasts-off back
downhill, where the airstrip’s not
blocked-in. You’re left, master
of all you survey.
From where you stand you
survey an airstrip and acces-
sories, a large thatched house
and what at this range look like
houseboys, and a mob of little
hill-people pressing round. They
converse in yodels and blow
Pan-pipes; and the men wear
bustles. Let discoveries begin!
How to make a fortune in
coffee, gold *or oil; whether Ku-
kukukus are so named for in-
vading neighbors’ nests or for
frizzling long-bacon; and why
dark nudity seems natural —all
these are minor matters and can
well be left a while.
What you’ve got to find out
first is how to get by in pidgin.
It’s elusive. It’s pidginillogical.
Say what you like about the
ersatz yabber—and a lot’s been
said by men of longer suffering
ACCENTS CALEDONIAN
—it has a streak of earthy genius
and lends itself to off-the-hook
humor. * Even first sight of a
piano being hammered didn’t
fash the kanakas. “Number-one
bokis, fightim teeth belly b’long
’im cry out” would be hard to
beat as an impromptu creative
effort. It also serves to show
what you’re up against.
By way of contrast, pidg-
in terpretation can be brief. You
send off a dusky Mercury with
an oral message and at your
present stage of scholarship you
wonder what he’ll make of it.
It is (apologetically) that, as
freight to fill a plane hasn’t yet
turned up, an intending passenger
may as well stay in bed. Inter-
rupting the intending passenger’s
packing, the boy boils it down to
“Balus ’e cross. ’E no ply,”
which not only contains the
essential info, but diplomatically
switches all blame to early-morn-
ing empty-tummied discourtesy
on the plane’s part.
“Balus,” the plane, looms large
in life up here, and his behavior
and anatomy are well covered in
the lingua franca. To tie-in with
his eminence in native eyes he’s
undergone a sex change. Female
to the world outside, he’s a
regular fellow here —even cap-
able of lusty procreation. When
parked beside a smaller plane,
pidgin dubs him Daddy.
You glimpse a ray of hope.
Things to us inanimate must be
given personalities before pidgin
can begin its tortuous work
Spark-plugs at times can be in-
animate enough ; you try calling
“Teeth b’long balus” and
get away with it. And the an-
guished sounds that go with plug-
trouble are explained.
At lunch you hear a houseboy
told to “Kissim lap-lap b’long
su-su.” Visions of knee-bending
chivalry are conjured up. All
he does is go and get the milk-
jug cover. Another knight goes
forth to “Kissim lap-lap b’long
wheelie-wheelie b’long balus,”
a more formidable assignation.
INTERPRETER (concentrating)
He staggers back under the
tractor’s tarpaulin.
You met a good old friend
in maski, for “Don’t bother.
What’s it matter? Dice it. Put
it off.” Blood-brother to
maleesh of war-time Araby.
With maski you can halt vain
enterprise—an attempt to ignite
an over-filled petrol-lamp with a
blazing brand in your grass-
thatched house, f’rinstance or
you can relegate your failures to
the limbo of “tomorrow.” A
handy syllable.
Introduced to native chiefs,
you get soft handshakes and
toothy “Kai’s.” You’re told in
this case “kai” means “good.”
The word, of course, is “food.”
Pidgin marches on its stomach.
“Drum nothing!” sounds like
some agitator in the advertising
industry plugging a go-slow in-
struction ; it’s a requisition for
an empty petrol-container. A
boy’s reply “Yes” to “You no
savvy?” means yes, he no savvys
—an unexpected grammatical
purity that can lead the tyro to
disaster.
Another trap is “stop,” and
this Esperanto has more “stops”
than a town-hall organ. Stop
can mean to keep on doing what
you’re doing; to stay; to be
lurking around somewhere; to
be present or “at home” ; to be
a fixture —and Lord knows what
else,
“Finish” can mean “stop”;
but stop never means finish.
After a long palaver on con-
ditions and awards, a horde of
bow-and-arrow men advance to
the assault of long grass on the
strip; and you flop back grate-
THE MINER TALKS
fully in a deep cane-chair. A
grinning headman jolts you with
“Altogether man ’e cuttim grass
b’long balus ’e stop'' It takes
a flustered moment to realise it’s
not strike-news —just an assur-
ance that they’re happy in their
work and hopping into it.
Whew! . . . Whew to you, too,
you experts!
It’s soothing to sit back some-
times and hear an expert reel it
off for you. Goes something like
this:
“Kana!”
“Sor!”
“Youtalkimlongßigorimitalkim
somefellermanimikissimtwofeller
maryduck’longkaib’longmaster !
Savvy?”
“Master, me savvy. Two feller
duck ’e come.”
Just like that. Frightening.
It must do something to you . . .
“Always something new comes
out of Africa,” said the Roman.
Here you discover that always
something new comes out of
trading. Silently and suddenly
your veranda is cluttered with
violently-bedecked little dark
men —a scramble of feathers,
paint, skin, spears, axes, knives,
bows-and-arrows, beads, pearl-
shell and roving eyes.
Behind shuffle the women,
clothed in shy giggles and a few
strands of adroitly-manoeuvred
grass. Tots koala-clutch their
mothers’ necks. Some, even
tinier, straddle generous maternal
hips and look after the inner-
man. There are different tones of
skin and variety in the faces.
One happy little matron com-
bines the usual frizzy coiffure
with a Balinese cast of features.
The warriors want words with
you, and they’ll have no truck
with your debased pidgin. Sum-
moning your personal savage to
interpret, you get the corruga-
tions all set ’twixt hair and eye-
brows and sit back to await the
outcome. A spokesman gives
tongue in a bubbling, semi-yodel-
ling inflexion-ridden stream of
his native Wehi, with a wealth
of soft-palmed gesture.
Your dragoman listens stolidly,
then tells you they have a pig
to sell.
Your reply, in broken pidgin
with an exotic Woolloomooloo
accent, at least unsmugs the in-
terpreter’s expression; he has to
concentrate. To gain time you
ask to see the pig. A babble of
back-seat yabbering ushers it in,
slung from a pole. A long-
snouted, dirty and truculent
monster.
You don’t know whether you
can eat that much pig unaided;
or whether the staff is up to
killing, curing and the alchemy
of turning a clay-daubed grunter
into frizzling bacon. In fact,
you don’t know whether you
want the damn’ thing at all.
Also, you don’t want to dis-
courage a butcher who delivers.
“Maski now,” you say, in-
spired (good old maski!). “Me
lookim tomorrow.”
When this is rendered down
into oozy Wehi there’s vociferous
consternation. They have a
genuine complaint and appeal for
a fair go. Selling the pig to-
morrow may be difficult; it is
ailing with some disease and to-
morrow may be dead.
The salesman and the pig de-
part; there’s philosophical ac-
ceptance of your churlish lack
of opportunism. But, Mister,
you’ve fluked a name for shrewd-
ness with the houseboy! Hang
on to it! . . .
Also in your discoveries you
find walking-distances in New
Guinea are curiously understated.
Never be talked or pidgined into
walking.
A tall, stringy, fiery-skinned,
rusty-whiskered, immaculately
white-clad bloke steps on to your
veranda and greets you in
accents Caledonian.
Over a pot of tea he says he
grows coffee, and his place is
r-r-right beside ye. He’d heard
you were here, and strolled over
to pass the time of day, “Step
across any time,” he says. “Ye
can’t miss it, ‘place b’long
Mac.’ ”
A few days later you smarten-
up and step out all neighborly,
spick-and-span, shipshape and
Bristol-fashion. Hours pass be-
fore you reel, sweat-soaked,
through a gap in Mac’s palisade
and totter towards a swimmy
vision of veranda-shade. The
crow-fly distance is twelve miles,
but the route has three-D
vagaries. . .
Your little old thatched villa
sits a mile up in the sky, and the
craggy blue cones around it rear
twice as high again. Clouds
squat on your garden, path.
Clouds! At times when walk-
ing’s unavoidable you consider
sending a boy ahead to brush
'em off the track, Some days
a shortish hiker may enjoy per-
fect visibility while his six-foot
mate is at a disadvantage.
To visit' some haciendas a
plane clambers laboriously up-
ward, picking its way among the
rising ravines, clefts and gullies.
No doubt the householder keeps
walking out and looking down
to watch the pilot’s progress . . .
One morning a gold-prospector
breaks through the tail pit-pit
growing beside the airstrip. He’s
sunburnt, wizened and advanced
in age. You’re quizzed by a fiery
light-blue eye; the other one is
glass. Your Stone-Age stalwarts
notice three fingers missing from
a gnarled right hand and sigh in
sympathy. It’s their owm custom
to hack oft a finger-joint on the
death of a near-relative. The
stranger’s blown-off digits win
him friends and influence people.
Seven cargo-boys carry his gear
on poles.
The miner mentions having
left a place so far afield your
mind boggles at the walk ; des-
tination is farther still.
“Had a smoke-oh at Mac’s
place just back there,” he says,
KOALA-CLUTCH
“and he said to look you up.”
Some kao-kao for his boys?
Good. He feels like a good sleep
tonight—bit of fever. Then
push on to Hagen in the morn-
ing.
You look at the spindly shanks
and travel-worn boots and
wonder how many times he’s put
them down and picked ’em up
again.
Lunch over, he ambles you a
bit up the 1000 ft. knoll and looks
at your backyard creek there—a
twisting string of waterfalls
beaded with crystal pools. He
fishes out pebbles, kicks at
stones and drains handfuls of
sand.
“Granite, quartz, serpentine,
black sand—bit of everything
that lives with the gold-money,”
he says. “Could be in any of
these creeks.”
He drifts into eye-popping
recollections of Bulolo and the
Edie.
“They used to yank the grass
out along the Edie, and shake
nuggets from the roots.”
“Why not scoop a hole or
two in the morning?” you sug-
gest. You’d like to know if the
stuff’s there yourself.
“Why not?” he says.
It’s a cold night, and there’s
a warming blaze in the mud-
brick fireplace on your bamboo
floor. The miner huddles close
beside it and starts remember-
ing aloud. He takes you over
hundreds of miles of old and
hard-won trails. Steamy coasts,
swamps, high mountain tracks
through dripping forests, where
exhaustion kills the bearers, pass
beneath your stumbling feet in
pelting rain and grilling sun and
sometimes flights of arrows. You
decide never to skite about walk-
ing in New Guinea.
As the miner talks the fire
chucks gold in handfuls on his
face. The rainbow-ends may be
ballasted with bullion . . . but,
man, it seems tough sledding.
In the morning there’s a clank
of dish and pick and shovel.
THE MEN WEAR BUSTLES
Pidgin snapped at sleepy boys.
Breakfast. Then:
“Coming up while I wash a
bit?”
“O.K. I’ve got a free morn-
ing.”
“Up” is the operative word.
All morning it seems that
“Further up, where this stuff’s
been washed down from,” is a
better place to try. The boys
pry boulders loose and dig be-
hind them. Thin-legged in ample
gumboots, the miner stoops,
swirling the muck in his dish
and ogling the dwindling sedi-
ment.
“Black sand but no color.
May as well move up a bit.
Water’s a bit strong here; gold
probably didn’t settle. She’s
sure to flatten out up round the
back somewhere,”
A native helper has been squat-
ting on an overhanging rock
twirling a red bloom in his
fingers. He thrusts it in his hair,
lifts a pick and mutters some-
thing murderous in Wehi. You
claw your way up in complete
agreement. By noon you’re at
7000ft.; and all you’re looking
for is a sign of waning enthu-
siasm in your partner.
“Well, I’d better get down and
pack,” he says finally, with some
reluctance. “Be worth giving her
a flutter further up sometime.”
Catch on? It’s not even safe
to start walking round your
backyard! You’ve got to be on
your guard against this walking
business all the time.
It’s mid-afternoon when our
tireless robot thanks you for
shelter and company and says
he’ll call again when passing.
“Nothing like resting up a bit
now and then,” he says.
He moves off, followed by his
carriers. He’s going to take it
easy as far as Hagen, about
30 miles, and camp there for
what’s left of the night. For
your own part, you’re still lack-
lustre from the morning’s moun-
taineering,
A couple of days later a young
married couple jump down from
the plane and stand looking
around.
“Smithy’s not here with the
jeep, Fred.”
“No, dear,” says Fred.
“Like a cup of tea while you
wait?” you butt in.
“Thanks, and then we’ll push
on, eh, Fred? Jeep’s probably
on the blink.”
It’s a four-hour trek, and
they’ve travelled from Sydney.
Ho, hum!
There’s a call to pick up a
patrol-officer on a strip near the
Wahgi River. He’s been on a
peace-and-goodwill tour of the
Jimi Valley, walking for months*
(Continued on page 31)


: .
“BONNINGTON’S
BUNKHOUSE SHOW”!
Featuring such top-line personalities as (from left to right) Noel
“Carrageen” Judd, George “Sassafras” Foster, Reg Lindsay, Leonard
“Kansas Kid” Thiele, Keith “Speed Jordan” Walshe and baritone Neil
Williams, the “Bunkhouse Show” brings you songs and laughs in western
style each week in one of the brightest half hours on Australian radio.
It’s a Macquarie Broadcasting Service feature programme.
268 - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL
2LT 2CA 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
She MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAEEB OFFICE;
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WESTERN DEFENCE, 1954
A halt to any further build-up
and, instead, concentration on
making what is already estab-
lished more efficient, represents
the general forecasts for this
year’s Western defence-effort.
What has been established in
the past three years of fairly in-
tensive effort is admitted to fall
short of what was originally in-
tended, largely because the sup-
posed easing of the Russian
threat caused a corresponding
slackening all round, but also be-
cause costs have proved greater
than was anticipated. Short of
some move by Moscow enforc-
ing action, even the limited
programme’s cost will be felt in
every Western country as an
overheavy burden.
The present position, as re-
corded by a “Manchester
Guardian” special correspon-
dent, is that, where 30 active
divisions should stand, there are
perhaps 25; where 30 reserve
divisions should be ready, fit to
fight within a month of mobili-
sation, there are fewer than 20;
where six or seven thousand tac-
tical aircraft ought to be flying,
there are fewer than five thou-
sand, and some of them are very
old.
And “The growth is stopping.
Conceivably Western Germany
will add to the field divisions
some time hence, and certainly
the Hunters, Swifts and Mys-
teries will begin to fly in Euro-
pean skies next summer. There,
however, the expectations end.
They end because there is not
enough money for further ex-
pansion.”
At that “most of the reserve
divisions are undermanned,
poorly trained, badly organised,
and short of equipment”;
“The forces at their present
level may be strong enough to
withstand the Russian units im-
mediately opposite them, in
Eastern Germany and Western
Poland, but they are nothing like
sufficient to withstand the re-
serves which the Red Army,
could call forward.
“That is an uncomfortable
fact. But since nobody will pay
for larger forces on our side, the
only course is to make the best
of it.”
There are, however, some
“compensating factors”:
“One is the power of new
atomic weapons; small atomic-
bombs on enemy airfields, for
example, would shorten the al-
ready short range of MIG
fighters. Another is the im-
mense retaliatory power of the
American Strategic Air Com-
mand. Although new anti-air-
craft devices may eventually re-
duce its power, they are not
thought likely to do so in the next
few years. The B-47 and B-52
bombers could probably pene-
trate to any target anywhere.”
Also, as reported by a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent, United States equip-
ment deliveries are now steadily
increasing:
“The end of the Korean war
has enabled America to expand
the delivery schedules of tanks,
trucks and all sorts of military
equipment for Europe, so that,
by the end of 1954, there will be
a marked improvement in the
efficiency of the 97 active and re-
serve divisions which General
Alfred M. Gruenther reckons to
be at the call of Supreme Allied
Headquarters.”
"Peace" Pays
Originated by Stalin as far
back as 1946, the “World Peace
Movement” has paid dividends
in more ways than the obviously
successful one of causing divi-
sion and friction on the Western
side.
Its main dividend in that
quarter has been the weakening
of the West’s defensive will, to
the extent that the West faces up
to 1954 nowhere near as defen-
sively prepared as had been
planned and with practically all
countries in the combine bent
on reducing defence expenditure
still further.
Paying so handsomely in that
way, the “World Peace Move-
ment,” as Michael Padev points
out in “Manchester Guardian,”
has developed into Moscow’s
major cold-war weapon, super-
seding completely the now mori-
bund Cominform. But there is
another quarter where it has its
value. Its aims in Eastern
Europe, among the satellites,
“are equally important, though
they are, perhaps, less obvi-
ous” :
“On the other side of the Cur-
tain the Communist ‘peace’
propaganda is genuine, in that
it tries to convince all nations
living under Communist rule that
the peace which they enjoy now
—life under Communism —will
be preserved for ever.
“In Eastern Europe the
‘peace’ campaign is, essentially,
New York “Herald Tribune”
"STILL NO MILK, CHIEF”
a propaganda campaign for the
status quo. The ‘warmongers’
are those who believe or hope
that the Communist dictatorship
is a temporary phenomenon and
that some day, somehow, the
Communists might cease to be
their rulers. The ‘peace’ parti-
sans, on the other hand, are
those who believe that the Com-
munists have come to stay, and
that the sooner one bows one’s
head to the inevitable and makes
peace with one’s masters the
better.
“Consequently the most im-
portant aim of the Communist
‘peace’ campaign in Eastern
Europe is to convince people
that the ‘warmongers’ are
powerless while the ‘partisans of
peace’ are all-powerful.
“For this reason the Soviet
and satellite Press gives great
prominence to all ‘peace’ activi-
ties organised in the West, as well
as to all speeches of Western
politicians in favor of an East-
West agreement. The notion
that Communist censors do not
allow the peoples of Russia and
the satellites to hear the cooing
of the Western doves of peace
is a myth. On the contrary, the
Communists are only too pleased
to let as many Western spokes-
men as possible make themselves
hoarse with shouting that they
are ‘for peace,’ which, as inter-
preted behind the Curtain, can
mean only one thing—Com-
munist peace. In this respect
the peace pronouncements of
those Western statesmen who
have been well known for their
anti - Communist views are
especially valuable to the Com-
munists.
“Viewed in this light the
‘peace’ movement can almost be
considered a success —for the
Communists. By constantly
accusing the West of warmon-
gering, Moscow has put Western
statesmen on the defensive and
has made them talk of peace.
But what the majority of people
living under Communist rule
fear and hate most is ‘peace’
under Communism. And the
‘peace’ movement has almost
managed to convince them that
the West favors exactly such a
peace—for the East.”
The Shipbuilders
A joint publication issued by
15 American shipping companies
states that from 1947 to 1952
more than 9,500,000 tens dead-
weight of ocean-going cargo
shipping had been constructed
in world shipyards; of that total,
the United States had built only
2.3 per cent. Britain had built
31 per cent, of all cargo ships
since 1945, Norway 13 per cent.,
and France 9 per cent.
The statement adds that,
though 83 per cent, of the United
States merchant fleet will have
to be, replaced within the next
13 years, no shipyard in the
country is building any ocean-
going passenger or dry-cargo
vessels for private ownership.
Against that record, the Tokyo
correspondent of \ London
“Times” lists shipbuilding among
the heavy industries of Japan
which have made a good recovery
since the war. The Japanese
merchant marine today (he re-
ports) totals 2,250,000 gross tons,
which compares with a pre-war
figure of 6,300,000 gross tons
and an immediate post-war figure
of 750,000 gross tons. Practi-
cally nine-tenths of Japan’s
shipping was sunk or damaged
in the war, but her shipyards
were surprisingly little damaged,
and from 1948 onwards (when
the occupation permitted ship-
building) the Japanese have re-
placed one-third of their losses.
This is not the whole story, for
in addition to building ships for
themselves, the Japanese are
building ships to foreign order.
The ocean-going shipbuilding
capacity of Japan is about
700,000 tons annually, including
three former naval shipyards
whose capacity is about 100,000
tons annually and whose future
has not been decided. Because
they were not booked-up with
orders in the post-war period, as
British shipyards were, Japanese
builders have been able to give
much quicker delivery than
British builders. In consequence,
they have received orders from
many foreign shipowners and
executed them within as short a
period as 12 months. •
At the present time, in addi-
tion to a domestic programme,
for Japanese owners, of 312,000
tons, consisting of 37 new liners,
freighters and tankers to be de-
livered within the current fiscal
year, Japanese yards are build-
ing for export a total of rather
more than 100,000 tons. This in-
cludes two 32,000-ton oil-tankers
for British owners (one of which
has already been delivered), two
tankers of 22,000 and 21,000
tons for American owners, and
several smaller passenger and
cargo ships for Burma, Chile and
Argentina. There have also been
inquiries from Soviet Russia,
Indonesia and Korea, but no
firm orders from them.
War? Well, No!
From a “U.S. News and World
Report” interview with one the
publication vouches for as “a
diplomat of a major nation who
knows Soviet Russia probably
better than any other Westerner
now stationed in Moscow” (his
identity had to be kept secret):
Q.: “Do changes in Russia
since Stalin’s death make war
more likely or less likely?”
A.: “I have never believed
that Soviet rulers wanted a major
war with the West, I didn’t
believe that before Stalin’s death
and I don’t believe so now.
“Danger of war has always
lain in the possibility of an
accident, some Soviet miscalcu-
lation, rather than in a planned,
premeditated attack launched in
an effort to conquer the world
by military force. Korea was
one such miscalculation.”
Q.: “You don’t think, then,
that Russia’s Presidium is plot-
ting war now?”
A.: “Not an all-out, major,
third World War, no. The idea
that Russia’s Presidium is sitting
in the Kremlin doing nothing
but plotting how to take oyer
the world is an oversimplifi-
cation of a complex situation.”
Q.: “You don’t think they
want to see a Communist
world?”
A.: “Oh, they’d like to see


\ is picture time..
i
There are picture subjects
all around you . . . the
children, your pets, week-
end activities, as well as
happy hours spent with
friends, old and n&w.
Keep your camera always
handy and loaded with
Kodak Film, you’ll make
better pictures on Veri-
chrome or Super-XX. And
don’t forget to keep an
extra roll handy.
Q>
OWL
mm
i&u
i
r>~ ' *J ' ' ’< ‘ * ‘•• •’
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. XNH2.53
it come about, certainly. They’ll
always be ready, as heretofore,
to pick up any territories that
fall into their hands, or to de-
fend past conquests. But Soviet
expansion abroad is not their
sole preoccupation, not by any
means. They’ve got plenty of
other things to worry about.”
Q.: “You think that the
Soviet leaders are more pre-
occupied with managing Russia
than with plans for territorial
expansion?”
A.: “They certainly have
plenty to do running the huge
enterprises they now have. And
remember lt has taken
30 years of sweat and suffering
to build up the Soviet steel-
industry and the rest of their
industrial complex.
“Sure, we know that Soviet
leaders aren’t inclined to worry
too much about human costs or
human lives that may be lost
in a war. But they are not going
to endanger, by launching world
war, the great industrial plant
they’ve devoted their lives to
building over three decades.
“Those industrial establish-
ments represent a big investment.
Big investments tend to make
people conservative.”
U.N.O. Star Performer
American tribute to Britain’s
representative at the latest
U.N.O. session, from the Mil-
waukee “Journal”:
“Sir Gladwyn Jebb will be
missed in the councils of the
United Nations. He was an
effective spokesman for the West
and a stout ally of this country
[U.S.A.]. But mostly he will be
missed, by the American people,
for his outstanding ability to de-
flate the Russians.
“Warren Austin [U.S. rep.]
could out-shout and out-emote
Vishinsky and Malik. Henry
Cabot Lodge [also U.S.] can
calmly out-debate them. But it
took Jebb to bring an angry
flush to Russian cheeks with
only a few acid words.
“He once devastated a long
Malik speech by remarking inno-
cently about Russian ‘upside-
down language’ in which peace
means war and defence means
aggression and democracy
means dictatorship. His calm
response to another Malik ora-
tion about political prisoners
ran around the free world—‘as
nauseating a spectacle as that of
Satan rebuking sin.’
“Many Americans smiled
when Jebb took over the Security
Council presidency after Malik
had stalemated it for a month at
the outbreak of the Korean war
and commented: ‘We shall pre-
tend that Malik has never been
president and go on with our
work.’
“Jebb has had many triumphs
in his 30 years as a British
career-diplomat. He will prob-
ably have more in his new post
as Ambassador to France. We
wonder, however, if any diplo-
matic honor will give him more
amusement and satisfaction than
the much-publicised comment of
the American who was watching
U.N. sessions on television in
those anxious days of mid-1950:
‘l’d rather watch Jebb than the
wrestlers.’ ”
Why U.S. Workers Win
A “U.S. News and World
Report” summing-up shows that
the American worker now pro-
duces from two to five times
as much as the British, German
or French worker. Yet 50 years
ago all four produced about the
same volume of work per day.
“Why the change?” the paper
questions. “What’s the secret
of American productivity? The
British are again dissecting the
miracle.
“Two leading British econo-
mists say there’s nothing really
startling about it. Basically,
Americans, both management
and labor, are more flexible,
more adaptable, less bound by
tradition.
“Every American worker has
eight horsepower at his elbow
and tools to use it. The British
worker has three to four horse-
power and fewer, older tools.
“The American manager
ploughs plenty back into new
plant and equipment, tries
new ways of doing things,
carefully measures his goals
2-80/V#
Hi. JL.. 4
London “News Chronicle"
THE FINAL TEST
and how to reach them.
The British manager, too often,
has a feeling of attachment for
old machinery, traditional ways
of doing things. For years and
years too many capital goods
have been exported, too few in-
stalled in Britain’s factories.
“Americans, gadget - con-
scious, like the novel, the fresh.
In most industries American
unions don’t try to block the
introduction of new machinery.
British unions often fight labor-
saving machinery. In Britain
there are more union curbs on
the amount of work turned out
per day than in the U.S.”
Schuman Plan
Actual achievements so far of
the European Coal and Steel
Pool, chalked up by New York
“Herald Tribune”:
“As a result of measures taken
to create a single market, there
has been a rise of about 15 p.c.
in coal shipped across the borders
of the participating countries.
“Steel prices have fallen, in part
as a result of the competitive
factors introduced by the
common-market principle.
“Perhaps most important,
mental habits have changed.
France, West Germany, Italy and
the three Benelux States are now
well-established in the minds of
Governments and individuals as
one unfettered area where vital
materials can move about accord-
ing to rational principles.”
Formosa: Fading
Hopes
As observed on the spot by a
London “Times” special corres-
pondent, about the only real
hope left for Chiang Kai-shek
and following is a fresh flare-up
of the Korean war, leading to
all-out war against the Chinese
mainland.
Otherwise it’s only a matter of
time before Formosa blends back
as part of China. Meanwhile
(says the “Times” man), the
gulf which separates the million
exiles on Formosa from their
friends and relatives on the main-
land is getting wider every day.
Every day, too, the proclaimed
intention to return to the main-
land rings more hollow: “But
proclaimed it must be ; for once
it is admitted to be an illusion,
or at least an aspiration not to
be fulfilled for 20 years or more,
the only raison d’etre the Kuo-
mintang Government allows
itself will disappear, and very
quickly its active supporters on
the island of Formosa would dis-
appear, too
“The return to the mainland is
the only faith, the only slogan,
the only goal. There is no alter-
native future to be considered.
Perhaps it is not surprising that
no opportunity is given to those
now on the island
to change their
minds and go
home. Exit - visas
only go to those on
approved missions.
Even students
granted scholar-
ships in the United
States have not
been permitted to
leave
“Plainly, time is
running out. Hie
army—2l divisions
each of 11,000
strength —is esti-
mated to have an
average age not less
than 30. While the
illusion of return is
kept flying, the
inner doubt must
spread. Last year,
for example, Presi-
dent Chiang Kai-
shek was still giv-
ing a confident
timetable in his
speech on the
national day. This
year the return to
the mainland was
only briefly referred
to
“Formosa seems
to be almost for-
gotten by the Government in
Peking. One hears of no Com-
munist activity either among the
mainland refugees or among the
Formosans themselves. Perhaps
in Peking it is thought that time
may bring its own solution. Two
of the necessary tasks, whether
performed by Communists or
Nationalists, are under way—the
economic rehabilitation of the
island and the drawing-back of
its inhabitants into the Chinese-
cultural family after half a cen-
tury of Japanese rule. Perhaps,
in a year or more, the workings
of time will be more apparent
than they are now.”
Crowding Hong Kong
So many are crowding into
Hong Kong from Communist
China that (reports a London
“Recorder” correspondent) “it
will burst apart at the seams
unless the flow is stemmed.”
Every day, states the corres-
pondent, up to 1200 Chinese are
crossing the frontier, latest trust-
worthy estimates putting the
colony’s population at nearly
2,500,000. “It is rapidly becom-
ing the most crowded place on
earth.”
Visas for Chinese to go into
Hong Kong are granted immedi-
ately, so long as the applicants
are “non-productive” —that is to
say, old, very young or sick.
“Each one who passes the
British frontier is another mouth
for the colony to feed. Loss
of trade with Red China because
of the United Nations ban on
strategic goods is depleting Hong
Kong’s food-supplies.
“In consequence, Hong Kong
now works and trades in limited
fashion merely to survive.
There is irritation in the colony
over American antagonism to
Hong Kong’s trade in non-
strategic goods with Red China.
‘That’s all very well,’ say
Britons, ‘but will someone help
us to feed the 1,000,000 Chinese
political refugees we protect?
Plus all these newcomers that
China doesn’t want?”
To which a footnote may be
added from a report by a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent on the spot;
“This strange and beautiful
city of Hong Kong is now
strongly anti-Communist. The
minds of the Chinese have been
made up by the refugees. Ex-
perience has changed the British.
The great majority of the British
here, official as well as un-
official, now regret the recogni-
tion of Peking. They deplore
the woolliness prevalent in Lon-
don. They even have a rather
startling tendency to burst out:
‘You know, I really think that
chap MacArthur may have been
right, after all.’ ”
Various Voices
United Nations Secretary-
General Dag Hamarskjold:
“Impatience is a useful goad,
but not a very good guide.
There are times when it is
political wisdom, in the best
sense, to mark time. We must
not let the United Nations be-
come a mere hostage to the
conscience of the member-
States, a shrine at which obeis-
ance is paid at appropriate
seasons while the real action
goes on elsewhere.”
Peron : “We don’t want any
pieces by Shakspeare. We don’t
like them. We want something
gay for the people.”
British Labor M.P.’s amend-
ment on the Suez ; “Follow the
precedent of Moses and lead our
people out of the land of
Egypt immediately.”
Admiral Arthur Radford:
“Peace depends mostly upon a
small group of men in the
Kremlin. This is one of the
hard facts of international
existence which we must accept.
Actually, we are faced even
now with their idea of war. The
fact that it does not involve the
massed onslaught of military
forces does not detract from the
fact that this is war today.”


TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
When the
Occasion calls
jor the best!
(*>
Mfc
mm.
£
m
23
ws
; vir
S5S
i*..
s2J
HQ
'•"*n
;v'
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
361bs.
&
: m
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearer*
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown.
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
TRANSFER OF Mr TRACE
by Kylie Tennant
WHEN Mr. Trace came to
Merriwidgee he inquired
who lived in the hut with
the tin chimney and the
mud veranda. He was told that
that was his school, and felt the
same kind of sinking that he
later experienced when he stood
voiceless before his fourteen
pupils and just stared at them.
He had never been away from
the suburbs of the city, and was
at an age when his voice rose to
a squeak in a crisis, and ne
covered his nervousness with an
icy reserve.
At least, he hoped it was an
icy reserve.
He nearly died of loneliness
during his first three months at
Merriwidgee, and was never
more lonely than when some
well-disposed family was taking
him for a drive to look at the
scenery—miles and miles of
wheat- or sheep-paddock, with a
river off somewhere out of sight,
and a railway-siding remote as
a mirage. They took him fishing
and dancing. He hated fishing,
and he could not dance.
He was boarded with a deaf
old lady, who lived three miles
from the school, and he walked
the three miles. His pupils ar-
rived on ponies or bicycles,
accepted what he taught them,
spoke little, and, as soon as school
was over, galloped or pedalled
off to their homes on the horizon.
They never waited for him, never
offered him “Good-morning;.”
They eyed him critically and re-
ported, he discovered later, that
“the new bloke’s mad.”
But it was the school-room
that brought Mr. Trace closest to
breaking. It had been put up
thirty years before by “local
effort,” The farmers had as-
sembled, spat on their hands,
hewed down a few trees —and
trees were mighty scarce —•
dragged the logs, donated some
second-hand corrugated-iron and
a tank, and nailed the result to-
gether, Even the shelves and
book-presses were hand-hewn.
Doors sagged open.
The windows were propped
on sticks. They had no fly-
screens, and the flies came in
their millions. There was a wire
screen - door, but the wire
stopped six inches short of the
top, so the blowflies zoomed in
through the gap. You could see
daylight through the roof and
the cracks in the walls. The red
dust filtered into everything, in-
cluding Mr. Trace’s lunch. It
formed a fine coating over the
desks. It was thicker than chalk
on the blackboard.
In the afternoon after school
Mr. Trace, who was a fastidious
young man, dusted every item
of his meagre equipment, wiped
down desks and seats, swept
and tidied. Every weekend he
thoroughly scrubbed the floor
on his hands and knees; he
scrubbed the , furniture. He
bought paint—red paint —and he
lavished it on the old, warped
wood. Immediately the few
people who had spoken to him
ceased speaking. He bought a
new waterbag to replace the old
grey, leaking bag that swayed
under the shade of the veranda.
The Parents and Citizens’ never
held a meeting because they lived
too far apart. They rang each
other up on the party-line to
make decisions as a committee.
The wires rang hot with their
comments.
“He thinks we’re too lousy now
to spend a few quid. We’d have
bought him any damn’ thing he
wanted but he doesn’t even let
on he wants it.”
'THE inspector whirled up in a
•*- big car when Mr. Trace had
been settled-in a few weeks.
“The place is untidy,” the in-
spector announced. “Not as neat
as I’d like to see it.”
“Untidy!” Trace’s voice rose
uncontrollably. He gulped. He
thought of his scrubbing and
dusting, his poor little efforts at
tree-planting and gardening, and
restrained himself from smash-
ing-in the inspector’s face with
his fist.
“I don’t like to see things in a
mess. You’ll need to straighten
the place up. These books, for
example. Look at those dirt-
marks. Don’t the children ever
wash their hands?”
Mr. Trace recovered his voice.
“The dust,” he said. “All day
long. Jt blows in. Through the
walls and the roof. Joe Murphy
owns one of the biggest farms
in these parts. Those are his
kids. He says his shed has to be
built to specifications and it’s
cleaner and a better place than
the school, where he has to send
his children. Thirty years ago the
people built this shed. They were
promised a school, but it never
came. They’re still waiting. It
still hasn’t come.”
“Now look here,” the inspector
said severely. “Admittedly there
are a few neglected schools in
this area, and Merriwidgee is the
worst. But have you seen the
big, new high-school that’s just
been built in town? A mar-
vellous address-system. The
headmaster has only to press a
button and he can talk to any
class-room in the school from his
study. Shower-rooms, playing-
fields, everything you could ask
for. I’ll be pleased to show you
over any time you get to town.
Don’t tell me money isn’t being
spent on schools.”
He became a little less severe.
“It’s the department’s policy to
close down all these little tinpot
places. Build up the big schools
in the big centres and bring the
children to them,”
When he was going he said
rather grimly, “I’ll be out again
before the end of the year. I’d
like to see a big improvement. ’
When he was by himself, Mr.
Trace thought of all the argu-
ments he could have used on that
inspector. “But you have to have
schools,” he said to the empty
class-room.
Feeling he would go crazy if
he did not talk to someone he
walked the five miles to Joe
Murphy’s farm.
JOE let him get it off his chest.
He was a big red-faced man
who was only eloquent on the
subject of Merino sheep.
“We gave up holding meetings
and sending petitions years ago,”
he said at length. “The chaps
who put that shed up made a
mistake. Got the department’s
back up. They’ve been snaky
ever since.”
“Surely that couldn’t be the
reason?” Mr. Trace was
shocked.
“Look at it this way. They
want us to send the kids to Mum-
ford Junction. That means my
kids would have to bike the five
miles to the station, travel fifteen
miles by train, home again, an-
other five-mile bike. Not if I
know it.”
After the session with Joe
Murphy Mr. Trace found that
the attitude of people he met had
changed. “So you don’t see why
we shouldn’t have a decent
school,” a farmer would growl.
“I’ve paid for a school twice
over in taxes.”
A horseman stopped at the
fence while Mr. Trace was sweep-
ing down the mud veranda and
passed the time of day. “We’re
going to interview the local
member again,” he said. “You
never know. He might do some-
thing.”
The indignation of Merriwidgee
rose to a new height when it
read in the local paper that a
new prefabricated class-room was
to be put up at Mumford Junc-
tion because “of the increase in
numbers,” while Merriwidgee re-
ceived, as answer to its letter of
protest, the promise that the
school should be repaired “as
soon as funds became avail-
able.”
Then the rain began and the
cold yellow clay nearly sucked
off the boots of Mr. Trace when
he tramped the three miles to
school. The plains were a sea of
mud. Cold wind blew through
the cracks, and rain dripped
through the roof. The school
was raised only just off the
ground on half-logs laid length-
wise, and it had settled with the
years. The water rose over the
floorboards, despite Mr. Trace s
frantic efforts at drainage.
ON the afternoon Joe Murphy
stopped his big truck out-
side the school, the children were
sitting on their desks to keep
their feet out of the water. Joe
Murphy’s mouth tightened as he
looked at the miserable huddle
of children. He jerked his head
at Mr. Trace, who was teaching
with his overcoat turned up
about his ears.
“See you outside?”
The young teacher followed
him out where the rain blew on
to the mud veranda.
“If there was a new school
here,” Joe Murphy said, “the
one that’s supposed to go to
Mumford Junction, would you
teach in it?”
“Would I teach in it?” Mr.
Trace’s voice rose high and
failed him.
“You don’t have to be in on
this,” Joe Murphy said. “We
might be able to work it, that’s
all. There’s a big truck with a
trailer loaded with that school-
room. It’s bogged just this side
of my gate.” He grinned at Mr.
Trace.
“I’m in it,” the young man
said deliberately. They shook
hands.
“Take Pat’s bicycle. Get to
the post-office and call Alec
Grimble. Tell him to get any
chaps from the railway and his
brother Ted. Say Joe Murphy
wants him. He’s to bring a trace-
chain and a bottle of whisky.
Two if he can. Don’t forget the
whisky.”
Mr. Trace, who was Mcrn-
widgee’s only teetotaller, swore
not to forget the whisky.
The bicycle collapsed under
Mr. Trace when he had almost
reached the post-office. He
accomplished his mission, but,
not liking to leave the bicycle
behind, he carried it back with
him to the school, worrying
about how he should explain it
to Joe Murphy. As he limped
along, the bicycle grew heavier
and the problem more urgent.
Of course he would have to pay
for it. He couldn’t leave the
confounded thing in the wet.
His boots, in their separate lumps
of yellow clay, swished with
every step.
ALL the children had gone
home, the early darkness
coming down in a veil of rain.
Mr. Trace, alone in the water-
logged school, saw a truck loaded
with men coming across the
((Continued on page 35)
FLOOD RESCUE
[ln the 1844 flood at Wagga the entire population of the settlement
is said to have been drowned with the exception of one girl whose
lover lashed her to a tree with his belt before being swept away
himself. Human bones unearthed by workmen many years later may
have been those of some of the victims.]
Out from Wagga: in wheat-country the air was summer-
thick
With dust and flies; the dirt was dead, dead feel in your
breath,
Life a long perpendicular candle with red sun for wick,
A moribund column dripping its light on sand, spreading
its death
Into your arms and back, to your very sweat.
I used my spade with a lifeless rhythm, my eyes
Red-rimmed, sandy to blink, the brain a fret
Of desperate hotness, trapped curses; dead to surprise
At that which bright blade disturbed, cracked on, clove in.
Without a start or a shout; with a silent stare,
No call to my mates, I accepted the mateship of grin,
The appropriate salute and left it there,
As matching the mood of the day, this sere and dull
, Old blind companion; dust-pulverised skull.
But the skull cleared throat, laughed dryly spat wet water.
“Died up a gum-tree! How’s that for a joke? it said;
“Saw her white legs once, that well-protected daughter
Of piety, prudery, parishry. Then swept dead
In the river’s anger. And, thinking some god arranged
My punishment, I expired; too late 1 knew
The gods love laughter, leg-locked jests and deranged
Long hair, as ritually their tithe and due.
Though this they also request” a wink from the socket
Surprised me to laughter— Ah—but I sacrificed; (
I told her: There’s more than one surprise in my pocket ;
And she closed her eyes as I took my belt and spliced
Her snug to the tree. Well, trees have their strange wild
life:
As fair exchange, I gave him my girl for wife. . . .
Evening in Wagga; I entered a church, for evil
And good were mixed in my brain: not much for prayer
As a rule, but I hoped to sort whether spectre or devil
Or neither had spoken to me. Kneeling there
Unable to pray or think, a very brown old
Woman came in, sat by me. Great God that same
She was, the skull had told of, known by the cold
Wetness about her in that dry season, and the frame
Of her body, and her stretched bark-skin and the wandering
wind
Trapped in, round, through her, clattering the decay
Of her mumbling lips as she—did she pray? she twined
Her sap-twig fingers beside me. Sir! They say
Long-wed women resemble their mates: it s right:
For I sat by an ancient flood-rent tree that night.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


SS/fSAT/OUAI
BATTERY IMPROVEMENT
SAFETY-
FILL
Willard
m •:
ar
m
liililil
SHIIII
I
NO
INCREASE
IN COST!
First Id Australia! The genuine Willard Safety-Fill feature
is the simplest, most accurate principle developed to
prevent overfilling and the resulting acid spray which
can cause dangerous corrosion!
i &
WRITE FOR FREE FOLDER. Send now for your copy of
the “Safety-Fill” folder that tells about the exclusive
Willard Safety-Fill battery—WßlTE NOW!
m
illard
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. of AUST. PTY, LTD.
UO CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
..■Mimiin lllllllll|lj
UlttaigB
until
bbssim
bbbsbb
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN..
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either, for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made*by the world’s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and boilerhouse equipment.
Makers of
POWER STATION,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boiferhouse equipment.
Ji
BABCOCK
STEAM
RAISING PLANT
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
Branch Offices in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
But New Guinea marathons
aren’t confined to getting about
on foot. The patrol-officer points
to the natives streaming from all
directions to crowd round the
plane. He tells you that these
people recently held a fifteen-
months “sing-sing” which was
only halted by starvation, work
never being allowed to interfere
with a sing-sing. Food had to
be flown to the ravenous revel-
lers.
You’ve got to get used to the
music. If you were brought up
in the bush and remember the
eerie nocturnal wailing of dis-
tant dingoes you’ve got a head-
start. It’s constant and, on ordi-
nary occasions, powerful melan-
choly. The vocalising kicked
along with Pan-like pipes and
native jews’-harps. Intermin-
able chants in a few sad half-
tones are enlivened now and
then by adventurous sallies into
the remoter octaves and muezzin-
like downward ululations.
Individual experimenting is
heard any old time during the
, day. Towards dusk organisa-
tion is evident. Scattered song-
sters probe the welkin till they
meet ‘in the same minor key.
The pipes and harps come in,
and pretty soon the music seems
to be growing out of the ground
all round you. Then it just goes
on. Ceremonial sing-sings, of
course, are highly colorful
affairs.
Sing-singing, in fact, seems
about the only exhausting thing
these fellows like to do. Hold-
ing that early wedlock, for in-
stance, is a life-shortener, the
men tarry about marriage. Still,
when the plunge is to be taken,
complete absence of the “brun-
ette, blonde or redhead” ques-
tion should surely simplify their
choice. And afterwards there
are no homebusting tints to any
stray hair that may cling to a
sooty shoulder.
Yes, the married folk seem
happy—here no one wears the
pants!
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Bulletin reader, Collaroy, Sydney,
has four years’ supply of Bulletins
which he wishes to present to an
interested institution. —5694.
To buy Mammals, by Louis
Figuier.—5685.
Bulletin man, going abroad, will
let small furnished house for six to
eight months. Suit couple with one
or two children. Terms reasonable.
-—5684.
To get in touch with any firm in
Australia or New Zealand stocking
“Aqualung” underwater swimming
apparatus.—5693.
To buy, second-hand, small stone-
crushing plant to produce fin. blue-
metal; plant to include compressor,
jack-hammer, etc. —5692.
To buy copy of Sykes’s Farming
750 Acres Without Artificial Fer-
tilisers.—5691.
Copies of any musical magazines
published in Australia. —5690.
Copy of C. J. Dennis’s poem “The
Austral aise.”—5689.
To buy recent issues of “The
Saturday Evening Post.”—5687.
Information Sought
What are “essential” oils and what
are their characteristics ?
Oils which possess the odors in a
concentrated form of the plant or
vegetable substances from which they
are obtained. These oils are gener-
ally contained in a special gland or
cell within the plant. The essential
oils are generally insoluble in water,
but they dissolve freely in alcohol,
ether or fatty oils. They contain a
large proportion of carbon, which
causes them to ignite easily, but as
a rule they leave no permanent
grease-spot. They possess an aro-
matic smell and a hot, burning
taste, and can be distilled unchanged.
* * * *
Do gerberas benefit by artificial
fertilisers ?
Don’t use strong, burning, artifi-
cial manures. A little superphos-
phate mixed into the soil about the
base of the plants has a beneficial
effect; but, where procurable, it is
better to use rotted cow-manure.
Agricultural lime is also an excellent
tonic, and keeps snails and slugs
from destroying the buds, which
come from the base of the clumps.
* * * *
(7) Is a husband liable for ALL
debts contracted by his wife? (2)
Will a public notice in newspapers
disclaiming any responsibility free
him from liability?
(1) Not for all debts. Where hus-
band and wife are living together the
husband is liable for necessaries sup-
plied to his wife unless she receives
an allowance for such necessaries.
What are necessaries depends upon
the circumstances of the parties. In
every ease the question of liability
rests largely on whether the hus-
band’s conduct is such as would
justify other persons in believing that
his wife acts with his authority. The
broad rule is that, except where the
wife acts as the agent of her hus-
band, or the person with whom she
contracts has reasonable grounds for
believing that she does so, the hus-
band is not liable for her contracts.
(2) This may be of assistance, but
is not of itself a full release.
* * * *
Names of the ductless glands of
the body, and what are their uses?
They are the pituitary, pineal,
thyroid, para-thyroid, thymus, supra-
renal and coccygeal glands. All
except the last two are internal secre-
tion or endocrine glands. The pitui-
tary controls growth of the skeleton
and body in general. Absence, de-
ficiency or atrophy of the thyroid
gland produces organic disorders of
far-reaching effect. The great influ-
ence of the thyroid on metabolism
is due to the iodine in specialised
combination. Muscle tone is influ-
enced by the suprarenal or adrenal
glands — when overstimulated these
bodies cause a temporary rise in
blood-pressure. They produce a sub-
stance known as adrenalin, which
acts upon the sympathetic nerve.
* * * *
How to make a lily-pond?
Excavate soil to a design (rectangu-
lar, square, oval, round, etc.) and
pack in 3in. of concrete. Cover this
with a mixture of two-parts sand
and one-part cement, working it
thoroughly into the base. A final
coating of thin cement will make it
fairly leak-proof. Where land is of
a clayey nature add wirenetting for
reinforcement with the first mixture.
The pool will need several washings
to get the lime out of the structure.
Then place soil in the pool to a
depth of 2ft., set the plants and,
finally, slowly fill with water so that
the soil will not be disturbed.
Bright-flowering annuals set around
the pool will brighten the surround-
ings, especially when the water
plants are not in bloom.
* * * *
How to make bread, using
brewer’s yeast? My difficulty is that
I cannot get it to rise.
With fresh yeast and suitable
treatment, the bread is sure to rise.
It must not be pounded or over-
handled to a tight mass, and must
be kept warm at all stages. Assemble
9 large cups of dry, good flour, 1
tablespoon salt, 1 cup yeast, and
lukewarm water to make a dough.
Mix well and allow to stand for
a few hours in a warm place. When
it breaks on top knead it lightly
but thoroughly with a dusting of
flour, cut in portions and place in
tins to rise again in a warm place
(about f-hour will do). Bake them
in a fairly hot oven for about 1 hour.
Make half the quantity for a trial
and note results.
Brief Answers
A.J.C.: Write to either W. Perry
D’Arcey and Son, 192 Slade-road,
Bexley North (N.S.W.), or M. Chap-
pell, 54 Hopewell-street, Paddington
(N.S.W.) H.S.: Paragraphs re-
garding Tommy and Paddy Cahill
appeared in the following
Bulletins: Oct. 29, 1952; Nov. 5,
1952; and Dec. 10, 1952....
K.McK.: Write Royal Australian
Historical Society, 8 Young-street,
Sydney W.D.: Write J. K. Moir,
Box 1663, G.P.0., Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne R.G.McK.: “Bo-
hemia” is the official organ of the
Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne.
It is obtainable from the secretary
of the club, H. W. Malloch, 980
High - street, Armadale (Vic.)....
H.L.D.: Sydney and Newcastle were
shelled by Japanese submarines on the
night of June 7-8, 1942, “shortly after
midnight” A.H.: “We believe
that the world can be preserved from
a total, atomic war. The mainten-
ance of peace depends, to great
extent, on the external policies pur-
sued by Russia and its satellites, but
we think the Russian rulers would
not be lunatic enough to plunge into
aggressive war, provided the defen-
sive strength of the West is suffi-
ciently great. Economic and political
stability is a vital factor in ensuring
a peaceful world.” This was the
conclusion of a committee (com-
prised of economists, publicists and
students of politics) assembled in the
U.S. during the Second World War
to investigate the causes of that
war Les F.: An ex-post-facto law
is a law which applies to an act
committed before the passage of the
law (Latin for “from after the
deed”). Such a law can make a
person guilty of an offence through
an action which, when he committed
it, was innocent. The Cahills’ recent
Sydney City Council (Disclosure of
Allegations) Act seems to be
a good example of this kind of
law J.E.C.: (1) Mervyn Rose
played in the 1951 Davis Cup
challenge-round. He lost both his
matches. Seixas defeated him 6-3,
6- 9-7; Schroeder won 6-4, 13-11,
7- (2) Hoad was in the 1952 Davis
Cup team, but did not play. (3)
In only two years has there been no
challenge to the holders for the
Davis Cup. The first time was in
1901, after the U.S. had won the
Cup in 1900, the first year in which
it was contested. The other year was
1910, after Australasia (Brookes and
Wilding) had defeated U.S.A. in 1909
five-nil J.H.: Write Amalgamated
Wireless (Australasia), Ltd., 47
York-street, Sydney F.McL.:
A. W. Jose (1863-1934) in 1888,
under the pseudonym of “Ishmael
Dare,” published a volume of poems.
Sun and Cloud on River and Sea. ...
T.W.: “The London Aphrodite” was
a magazine edited by Jack Lindsay
and P. R. Stephensen of the Fan-
frolico Press, London. Six numbers
were issued from August, 1928, to
July, 1929... .F.M.F.: You should
get in touch with the Public Trust
Office, 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
P.McR.: Write Superintendent,
Advances for Homes Division, Rural
Bank of N. S. Wales, Box 41,
G.P.0., Sydney....J.B.A.: Write
War Service Homes Section, State
Housing Commission, corner Plain
and Hay-streets, East Perth (W.A.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.A.: The talking-parrot that gave
the sailor’s show away is a vener-
able old bird E.T.: Morbid, and
overcharged with grandiloquent
phrases 8.M.F.; You’ve certainly
got simplicity of style, but that’s not
everything C.H.P.: We read it a
couple of times without getting the
hang of it 8.F.W.5.: No charter
here for those tramp-steamers of
yours..G.R.: “You will note from
the enclosure that I know very little
about short-story writing.” Audited
and found correct M.K.W.: Your
car trip, like most car trips, is of
scant interest to* non-participants
T.P.: Do you honestly think that
sort of thing happens in real life?
. ...C.P.M.: At the rate you’re turn-
ing it out it would be an accident
if you did anything really good
C.C.G.: They scarcely rise above
school-magazine level D.E.: Not
very interesting, and your unorthodox
method of punctuation doesn’t im-
prove it W.A.M.: Had a point,
but you’ve made a good job of
blunting it C.T.F.: That hotch-
potch is one of the tragedies of the
Royal visit S.T.S.: A faint echo
of Ernest Favenc’s “The Parson’s
Blackboy”... .C.R.L.: The stars in
their courses were against your
astrology yarn... .F.C.: Your yarn
of the horrors of gambling is re-
lieved by the little touch of the
bookmaker falling dead when the out-
sider wins... .P.M.: We would hesi-
tate to tell that to the marines
J. 0.5.: The formula you have em-
ployed is too stereotyped... .R.H.V.:
Every fisherman we know has told
us that chestnut J.W.: Even the
five alternative stanzas do not make
it look like a poem A.H.J.:
Irredeemable and undiluted doggerel.
T.S.: Afraid they’re no more
than a string Of rhymed common-
places. Cannot undertake to send
criticisms by post G.J.: An empty
sort of yarn F.C.D.: Your
characters give the impression of
being manufactured to fit the situa-
tion 8.T.R.: Publication of
“Reflections” would at least cause
a boom in dictionary sales P.R.:
Mediocre verse, but we wish you
the best of luck with the girl
E.O’N.: Can’t do less than agree
with your own judgment that it
“seems feeble” C.H.M.: Reunion
of childhood lovers after half a cen-
tury apart is copyright to the Long-
fellow family G.D.: Seems well-
intentioned, but it’s too long-
drawn-out for our columns
M.L.R.: Cultivate a style of your
own J.R.8.: There is a point
where the ridiculous ceases to be
funny. You reached it and still
went on W.T.: They are all so
old that it was hardly decent to
disturb them.


Always on the job
•s «r
AGA
Begd. Trad* Mari
GIVES CONSTANT HEAT
FOR COOKING
PLUS
-
9
CONSTANT HOT WATER
The correct grade of
coke now in ample supply.
Ready for instant use day and night,
the Aga Cooker also maintains a con-
stant hot water service to meet kitchen
and bathroom needs. No other cooker
gives these double benefits at so little
cost. Fuel bills are smaller with Aga,
because low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Heavy insulation ensures
heat does not escape, your kitchen al-
ways stays cool.
TEMPERATURES JUST RIGHT!
Two ovens and two hot plates are automatically
adjusted to cook at different speeds. You can safely
leave food cooking in Aga, even overnight.
FUELLING SO CLEAN AND EASY!
There’s no work Involved in keeping Aga In action.
Fuelling, so clean and easy, Is needed only three
times in every twenty-four hours. Aga burns con-
tinuously on coke and low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Nothing surpasses Aga for economy
and excellence of cooking.
f
JSmutm
i
OTHER
AGA
COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate).
MODEL "ET M (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates, plus hot water tank).
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Eitablished In N.Z. In 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BENOIX HOME WASHER
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
MALLOCH BROS. Ltd.. Pertll
. J
SB
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bush-hay v. Silage
“Outback”; According to
G. R. Moule and C. I. Younger,
of Queensland Department of
Agriculture, opinion among
Queensland graziers is harden-
ing in favor of growing crops
for silage instead of conserving
bush-hay. They realise that this
might sound a little revolu-
tionary, but they cite the success
achieved by John Kelman, of
Dundee, Richmond, and by
A. C. McClymont, of Inverness,
Muttaburra, in growing and
using crops of Sudan grass and
sorghum.
With the high prices realised
for wool the last two or three
years and the high cost of re-
stocking after a drought graziers
are doing everything possible to
save their sheep in a drought, and
to increase their lambing per-
centages. Apart from the
periodical severe droughts much
of the Queensland pastoral
country suffers from a partial
drought every year, when the
natural grass loses its nutritive
value, and sheep have “to live on
their fat” to exist.
Experiments have shown that
for every £1 spent on labor and
fuel in conserving bush-hay 57
sheep could be fed for one week,
whereas for the same expendi-
ture on silage 120 sheep could be
fed for a week, although in both
cases the animals would be short
of protein.
An acre of bush-hay, on results
obtained this year, will yield
about 22.51 b. of digestible pro-
tein and about 3751 b. of useful
energy, whereas an acre of silage
crop will yield about 901 b. of
protein and 17001 b. of energy.
Comparative costs were 23d.
per pound of protein for bush-
hay, and Bd. per pound of pro-
tein for silage for working costs
only, not including depreciation
charges. The cost per pound of
energy supplied by the bush-hay
was 1.3 d., and only 0.4 d. per
pound for silage.
Analyses have shown that most
bush-hay is likely to be deficient
in protein, and that it is advisable
to add some protein-rich meat
when it is fed to sheep.
In trials at the Toorak field-
station, near Julia Creek, sheep
given 31b. of bush-hay, plus loz.
of meatmeal and 2oz. of maize
per head per day, put on weight;
those given lib. of bush-hay per
head per day, plus loz. of meat-
meal and 2oz. of maize, lost a
little weight, but it was obvious
that a ration of this type would
maintain sheep for a considerable
time.
Culling
“Hortus”: Cull without hesi-
tation, whether livestock or
plants. Take tomato plants. If
there’s a slight sign of wilt, don’t
spare the diseased plant because
there are one or two good toma-
toes showing. By doing so you
probably will ruin all the other
plants.
If you want really good laying
fowls don’t be satisfied only
with the shape of the bird or the
correct number of serrations in
the comb. You won’t obtain
large-sized eggs unless there is
a two-finger-width between the
pelvic-bones.
With sows, under careful man-
agement, you can obtain fairly
profitable results up to five or
even six years of age. But after
three years, a sow’s capacity to
produce milk begins to decline
gradually. It’s best to start
culling between three and four
years of age, as soon as a notice-
able diminution of milk-produc-
tion occurs. In this way you will
always have young, active, good
milk-producers, who are in the
prime of their breeding life.
There are other reasons for
culling besides those of age.
Sows that are bad mothers, show-
ing unsatisfactory temperament,
and those whose farrowing re-
sults are poor or whose milking
capacity is weak, should be
eliminated at an early stage.
Never waste money by feeding
any animal, whether cow, pig or
fowl, that doesn’t show an ade-
quate monetary return.
Maize in U.S.A.
“Agric”; One of the lessons
learnt on an overseas tour by
the first Queenslander to win a
“ There's that flamin' mirage agin.”
Nuffield scholarship, Douglas
Poulsen, of Cooroy, is that the
State should increase maize-pro-
duction.
Production and use of maize in
the U.S.A. was an eye-opener to
Poulsen, He said lowa had 10
million acres of maize, with an
average field of 60 bushels to
the acre, practically 100 per cent,
of it from hybrid seed. For the
whole of the U.S.A. the percen-
tage of hybrid was 99.5.
Maize formed the basis
of livestock - production in
America, whether the industry
was beef, dairying, pigs or
poultry, and there were 500
different ways in which maize
could be used for human food.
In New York State, well over
50 per cent, of the maize grown
is used for silage, and in all
dairying districts maize silage is
the main fodder. Growing
technique and high yields are
based on the use of first-quality
seed and good fertiliser practices.
The seed - production pro-
gramme is highly organised,
every seed merchant being out
to sell seed which will produce
the best crop.
Hybrids have been developed
to suit all climatic conditions.
In New York State Poulsen saw
maize being harvested when there
was a foot of snow on the
ground, while in Florida he saw
it being grown on sand. In
regard to land products gener-
ally Poulsen said the U.S.A. had
an oversupply of butter and
meat, but with the population
increasing by two million
annually, they feared shortages
within five years.
Spacing Drills
“Manwill”: G. A.' Christie,
on the Burdekin (N.Q.), has
solved the problem of accurately
spacing his drills when using the
single-row planter.
He has found that the mould-
boards of the planter will follow
the track of a sub-soiling tyne
even though the heavier imple-
ment has been over the ground
months before. By removing all
but two tynes from the grubber
and spacing these at the row
inter-space, say, sft., he has in
effect both a two-row marker
and a sub-soiler working be-
neath the future i cane-rows
where it will do the most good.
i To make sure the lines are not
lost he wraps a bag around each
tyne at soil-level and the re-
sultant rough furrow is easy to
follow. In the heavy alluvial
soil the grubber is set to about
to 70 inches
15 zu mcnes.
A New Cane-planter
“Sugroo”: The fertiliser
attachment, the cutter-planter,
and apparatus for dipping or
spraying cane setts were all de-
veloped in Queensland and have
created considerable interest
overseas. Now, continuing a
tradition which goes back a
couple of decades to the soil-
fumigant injector for cane-
grubs, Ellis Blundell, of Darad-
gee, Innisfail (N.Q.), has per-
fected a simple form of planter
which cuts the setts, dips them
in the mercurial solution and
drops them down the chute into
the furrow made by the mould-
boards on the machine.
The new principle consists of
a* wheel with a rim as wide as
the average sett-length which
cuts the setts against a fixed
blade as the stalks are fed in
from either side. The revolving
wheel carries the cut setts under
the surface of the small mer-
curial bath and they are then
flicked down the chute.
The local canegrowers’ associ-
ation is making and marketing
the Blundell planter.
Feed for Horses
“Mellis”: Oats, chaff, clover
and baled-hay are what we
usually see provided for our
show-horses, with apple, sugar,
and Other titbits as luxuries. I
knew one jumper extremely
partial to grapes, black for pre-
ference, and another with a
weakness for Marmite sand-
wiches.
All horses don’t fare so well.
On the Persian Gulf dates and
fish are the staple foods for
working-horses ; usually saddle-
horses of the gentry do without
the fish. Frequently the Shet-
land-pony in its native land ekes
out its early spring ration with
seaweed.
Up to the time of the Com-
munist occupation of Tibet
horses of the nomad tribes,
when a pig was killed, were fed
the blood and raw liver because
it was believed that a horse
needed meat to keep up its
strength. In Poland, which has
always been noted for its horses
and horsemen, there was for
many years the belief that horses
throve better on cooked than
raw grain, and that the available
food went much further cooked,
therefore the grain was bruised
or roughly ground, yeast added
and cakes made. This “horse-
bread” could be easily carried
and could be fed to horses with
little waste.
In Holland 100 years ago it
was usual to have a special rye-
bread baked for horses, and at
the same period in America
better-off people bought con-
demned bread or ships’-biscuits
for their horses.
Millet for Quick Feed
“Pennisetum”: With the
par Tj a j breaking of the N.S.W.
North Coast drought no cro p
wiil give qu i cker f ee d for the
cows th an Japanese millet. But
bl j s j s midsummer, and if the
drought is only partially broken
tb j s m dlet will soon crumble up,
as j s a g rea t moisture-lover.
xhis fault, however, cannot be
j a j c j aga i ns t its cousin. Pearl
millet which thrives much better
’ SDec i e s under dry
than the Jap speci s u y
cond.tions. Pearl wtll also con
siderably outyield Jap m carry-
ing-capacity for grazing or m
total bulk of green stuff pro-
duced under any conditions.
x be on ]y f a ult with Pearl is that
it is rather coarser than the Jap
breed if allowed to grow on for
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
On the N.S.W. central coast further good rains may
be expected till early February. In other coastal and inland
areas prospects do not show much sign of rain of any
importance, except along the central and northern coast of
Queensland, where possible storms lurk. The point of onset
seems to be rather southerly, so that Cairns does not get
the full force, which seems nearer Townsville. In March
there may be a repeat of a past cyclone at or near
Innisfail, but as no check is possible it is not certain.
Otherwise, the main rain impulse seems to be reserved
for February, which promises fairly general rain over the
Tropics and eastern Australia generally, with extension to
Alice Springs and Innaminc^ka.


Krilium
TRADE MARK
SOIL CO
E W
ITiOKER
LMNAKER
FORMULATIO
Now Available for
Agricultural & Horticultural uses
MEN ON THE LAND
MARKET GARDENERS
COMMERCIAL FLOWER GROWERS
NURSERYMEN & HOT HOUSE GROWERS
LANDSCAPE GARDENERS
TOBACCO GROWERS
MAKES HARD PACKED
Oi-
' \
to.
pp
A<\
CLAYEY SOILS ... LOOSE AND LOAMY
wm
i* 'A'.J''*
*4 ' M
m
*m
mmm
■■■A
*
m I
■^ v '
:: ?A .■ '.
:j||l
After thorough testing under Australian conditions the new Krilium Loamaker, specially
formulated for agricultural and horticultural uses, is now available. All types of crops have
been shown to benefit by Krilium soil conditioner treatment, which makes hard packed
and clayey soils loose and loamy.
This unique and immediate action of Krilium lasts for years and means more money to
commercial growers because it allows much quicker, healthier growth, less failures and
substantially higher yields.
Krilium Loamaker is available through your local store-
keeper in 10 lb. or 25 lb. tins and 112 lb. kegs.
Product of MONSANTO CHEMICALS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
smsni ■ sivomair)
QIMVSMOW
some time without grazing or
cutting.
Urea can now work wonders
with coarse fodders in the cow’s
stomach, and there would not
be so much loss from drought
on the North Coast if more of
these coarse fodders, such as
Pearl millet, cow-cane, elephant-
grass or pampas, were grown as
stand-by feed.
t
Hay Mulch
“Pomona”: Although sod-
culture in orchards may be
effective under irrigation or in
regions of heavy rainfall, there
are times even there when the
growing pasture may be found
competing for moisture, if not
for plant-food, with the fruit-
trees.
In some such regions Ameri-
can orchardists are now turning
from sod-culture to hay-mulch-
ing. Where possible, the eco-
nomy of the practice is further
enhanced by the use of weather-
spoiled hay.
With any hay a saving of
potash fertiliser is made, and,
with leguminous-hay, nitrogen
fertiliser is not required. In a
dry period, the soil-moisture may
often still be at field-capacity
under a hay-mulch when the
trees are beginning to show the
effects of lack of moisture under
sod-culture.
A Mixture
“Beroo”: Sweet-potatoes and
sugar-cane don’t sound a prom-
ising combination in the one
paddock, but in the British West
Indies cane-growers do it and
show a profit.
The cane is cut green—not
much is in Queensland now, but
any farmer cutting his own
should be able to manage some
—and the potato-cuttings planted
in the moist soil beneath the
layer of trash. The roots grow
clean and easy to pull between
soil and trash. It might be
worth a trial in some parts, espe-
cially since the sweet bucks
mature in time for the land to be
prepared for the next cane-
planting.
Tractor Danger
“Brookfield”; The farm-
tractor is extremely manoeuvr-
able and easily handled, and
because all its wheels or tracks
can be seen from the driver’s
seat it should be one of the safest
machines to handle. However,
two fatal accidents in the Queens-
land cane-areas indicate that the
tractor deserves every respect. It
has a nasty habit of rearing up
and over backwards, but it also
has a comparatively high centre
of gravity when built to straddle
cane-rows, and can tumble down
a creek-bank much more easily
than a truck or car. Both deaths
came through falls into creeks.
Hints For the Farm
“B.”: Buy grass-seed by
weight, not by the bushel, be-
cause the condition of the seed
—empty or filled with grain-
causes variations in the bushel-
weight as follows: Prairie, 201 b.
to 351 b.; couch, 241 b. to 361 b.;
Rhodes, Sib. or less; cocks-
foot, 101 b. to 201 b.; giant
Fescue, 151 b. to 241 b.; hard
Fescue, 121 b. to 251 b.; red Fes-
cue, 121 b. to 151 b.; Italian rye-
grass, perennial-rye and wood-
meadow grass, 201 b. to 251 b.;
paspalum, 221 b. or less ;
Phalads bulbosa, 351 b. to 401 b, ;
P. tuberosa, 551 b. to 651 b.;
Timothy-grass, 451 b. to 481 b.;
and Sudan-grass, 441 b.
“Mackay”: Edible trees are
best for windbreaks and shelter-
belts on the Darling Downs.
Lopping in drought doesn’t
destroy them, Kurrajongs,
bottle - trees, Portuguese - elms,
honey-locusts and carob-beans
all provide good tree-grass.
Pin us insignis, white-cedar and
Bauhinia hooked are less palat-
able but good shade-trees.
Wilgas are useful and orna-
mental, When planting trees
near a boundary-fence put up
a second inner fence to keep
stock off.
“C.P.”: New volume of the
Poll Shorthorn Society’s stud-
book, the ninth published since
1937, contains details of 1326
stud-bulls and cows registered
since publication of vol. eight
in 1952. The society was founded
in 1935. When registrations for
the new stud-book closed last
year there were 6846 P.S. bulls
and cows registered in Austral-
asia.
“Beroo”: When greasing the
tractor or car don’t wipe the
nipples free from grease after
using the gun. The excess
grease prevents dust or grit get-
ting into the hole and provides
a thoroughly-clean surface when
wiped just before the next appli-
cation.
“Malacophyllum”: From the
crossing of ordinary paspalum
with a ribbed species which is
resistant to the common ergot
disease, the Mississippi Experi-
mental Station in U.S.A. has de-
veloped new varieties of pas-
palum which make good growth
and remain free from ergot.
Seed-supplies of these new
strains should soon find their
way to Australia,
“Ceegee H”: The correct bac-
teria and protozoa in the rumen
are of great importance to the
well-being of the cow, and now
overseas journals give detailed
instructions as to how the farmer
may get cuds from his best cows,
place them in a sterilised bucket
and eventually shoot them down
the throats of those calves and
young cows which inexplicably
haven’t thrived as well as they
should have.
“Barolin”: Splint is a bony
enlargement on one of the small
functionless bones attached to
the cannon-bone, and usually
causes no lameness whatever.
Nothing can be applied to the
skin over the area that will re-
move it. However, in the early
stages before new bone has
actually formed, the small splint
may be removed completely by
the application of a preparation
such as Reducine.
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A.W.U., A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the B.W.T.C. ?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
®xpect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B.W.T.C. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Lucerne-hay
The N. S. Wales, Road Transport
Department has stopped issuing road-
permits for baled string-tied lucerne-hay,
and that makes things tough for lucerne-
growers and their customers. It means
that hauliers must now pay 3d. per ton
per mile, not on the weight carried but
on the carrying-capacity of the vehicle
used plus its tare weight. These charges,
of course, are passed on to the buyers,
most of whom are coastal dairyfarmers
who are forced to feed baled lucerne regu-
larly because of restricted areas and the
lack of natural feed. To buy lucerne
under those conditions is economic suicide,
as the long hauls involved send the
iniquitous road-tax soaring.
Apparently the idea is to divert this
traffic to the railways, but there’s a snag
here. String-tied baled lucerne-hay must
not be loaded more than one tier above
the gunwale of railway-trucks, as a higher
load is considered unsafe. That means
that only about half the normal quantity
of hay can be loaded. The difference
between actual weight and the minimum
for the truck used (“S” truck, six tons ;
“U” truck, seven tons) is charged for and
must be paid for by the sender or con-
signee. Growers who have tried it have
had to pay excess freight on as much as
two tons.
Road permits were originally granted
for this class of traffic because the rail-
ways couldn’t handle it. Conditions have
not changed since, except that railway-
truck minimums have been lowered one
ton, which is not much help. So the
many lucerne-farmers operating string-
tying balers are blocked both ways in the
matter of transport while their mounting
stocks are in danger of damage by rain.
—Ann (N.S.W.).
The Trans.
The story (B, 28 /10/’53) that the
original fast schedule on the Trans, was
merely a “temporary” arrangement is
nonsense.
As far back as March, 1935, planning
for the new “temporary” service had
reached the stage where serious considera-
tion was being given to the use of diesel
traction, the advantages of which are
seemingly overwhelming. It would be
interesting to know why that idea was
dropped in favor of the N. S. Wales C 36
class, a most unsuitable machine for
sustained mile-a-minute running. The fact
that the whole eight cost only a fraction
as much as one two-cab diesel may have
had some bearing on the matter.
In addition to the locos, built specially
for the purpose, the fast run called for the
construction of 57 miles of new track and
the strengthening of 1051 miles to take
20-ton axle loads at 60 m.p.h. against 16
tons at 45 m.p.h. That seems an awful lot
of work for a “temporary” service.—
Transporticus (Singapore).
The Leaving Certificate
When the age and experience of the
student is considered, the Leaving Certi-
ficate examination is one of the toughest
exams he has to face. Far from calling
for an ability to remember a mass of
un-co-ordinated and irrelevant facts
(B. 30/12/’53), it requires high intelli-
gence and an ability to study over a long
period. Only those with intelligence
above the average have much hope in
the Leaving. The Education Department
recognises that when it sorts the candi-
dates for secondary education.
As well as a high intelligence the
child must have the power to work
systematically and consistently. Few
crammers ever do well in the Leaving.
Mere memory ability is not sufficient.
There must be a reasoning-power and
an ability to recognise the broader
significance of the facts learned. Every
year the examiners complain "that too
many candidates are attempting to pass
on memory alone. Comments such as
the following appear year after year:
“There is still too much learning-by-
heart and hence a failure to apply
principles to the problems set.”
The subjects set for the. Leaving offer
a wide scope for learning. There are 37
■objects set down for the exam.
Obviously a child cannot pick any seven
he likes out of that- —the requirements
of matriculation and the internal organ-
isation of the school restrict the choice
considerably—but the field covered is
still broad enough to provide a liberal
education. The method of examining
calls for a detailed study of the subject,
far more detailed than is found in the
earlier school years.
“A Parent-Teacher’s” examples are
exaggerated generalisations. A student
who spent five years learning how to
prepare copper-nitrate wouldn’t pass any
exam., let alone the Leaving. The
alternative he offers (fertiliser and food-
production) is dealt with in geography
and in parts in biology. Anyway, if the
student intends to take on industrial
chemistry his knowledge of copper-
nitrate would probably be of greater
benefit than a knowledge of the correla-
tion of fertilisers and food-production.
A pass in the Leaving shows that the
student has the ability to learn, an
essential in any job. The failures are
those who have not that ability.
To replace the L.C. with a school
certificate would be a retrograde step —
like the present Intermediate Certificate.
It would be impossible to get consistent
standards by issuing certificates from the
schools. The Leaving Certificate does
show what a child can do and at what
standard he can do it. The Intermediate
and the University exams do not show
whether the student is a 50 or 80 per-
center. After all, a boy with first-class
honors in maths, should have a better
chance of doing well in, say, engineer-
ing than the fellow with maths, missing
from his certificate. Wackford
(N.S.W.).
*
Writing a Biography
Before anyone tries to write a:
biography of a notable Australian
(B. 16/12/’53), it is advisable to know
some of the pitfalls, including the fact
that you can’t make money that way.
I learned that years ago when I met
the late William Oliffe, whose life-story
outclassed that of Kidman in adventures,
hardships and droving feats. At 14 he
was helping to pioneer the cattle country
in western Queensland; at 17 he was a
boss-drover, bringing mobs of cattle
south to the Melbourne market. He was
the best bushman I ever met.
I wrote the story of his life and had
no trouble in placing bits of it as articles
with Australian and overseas magazines.
Then I tried to market the complete
manuscript, first as a book and then as a
serial. The best offer I received was £25
for fuff serial rights, payment to be made
at some indefinite publication date in
the distant future.
One publisher’s rejection-note summed
up the position : “To sell, a biography
must deal with some famous figure whose
life was crowded with gripping incidents,
the actual writing must be superb and
the author’s name must be one which
will ensure the interest of the reading
public.”
Our dead and gone authors and poets
make poor subjects for biographies, as I
discovered when delving into their life-
slories as material for articles. There is
always the same pitiful story of poor
financial rewards, little or no fame until
they have been dead for 10-20 years and
very shabby treatment by some editors
and publishers. And if you delete that
there’s little left.
Fergus Hume sold all rights to his
Mystery of a Hansom Cab for £5O to a
man who made a small fortune from his
best-seller—but didn’t pay the author an-
other penny. Katherine Mansfield had
just three stories accepted between 1915
and 1919 and none of her work was
wanted by editors of leading magazines
until she was dead.
Dickens had old Mr. Weller decline to
subscribe towards the purchase of text-
embroidered handkerchiefs for the
heathen overseas, but willing to “Come
down pretty handsome” to buy straight-
jackets for some people at home. In
similar mood, I favor practical help for
competent writers now living, rather than
placing on record the struggles and frus-
trations of those now dead.
Australia has a lot of people appar-
ently unable to turn out any creative
work of their own, but who get into
print by writing about the work of our
dead novelists, short-story writers and
poets. Most of these people hold uni-
versity appointments. They would be
doing a far greater service to Australian
literature if they dealt with the work
of living people. The Canberra branch
of the Fellowship of Australian Writers
has taken a step in the right direction by
publishing the anthology Australia
Writes. —H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
The Egg Board
I bought eggs today in a country store
at 3s. lid. a dozen. Fifty miles away in
Melbourne the price is ss. 3d. for board
eggs. My eggs were fresh from the farm,
the farmer made his profit and the store-
keeper made his. And I saved Is. 4d. on
each dozen.
Can the Egg Board explain that away?
And can it also explain how many
employees (including snoopers to spy on
farmers selling their eggs under the lap)
it employs? There are also such things
as “egg floors” in the principal towns,
rent, electricity, transport, wages and
official forms ad infinitum.
The simplest answer, of course, is to
abolish the Egg Board, but that’s too
much to hope for. —5 G. R. (Vic.).
The Public Service
Of course Parliament cannot control
the public service (B. 30/12/’53). That
was realised in 1895 when the New South
Wales Parliament established the State
Public Service Board and gave it wide
powers. Parliament, however, has since
defeated board-control of the Service, by
excluding various public enterprises,
statutory corporations and Government
organisations from its jurisdiction.
Today, about 60 per cent, of New
South Wales Government employees are
not under board-control. In these cases
Parliament (in practice. Cabinet) has
guarded the public interest by awarding
top administrative positions to unseated
politicians whose main claims appear to
be old-age, ill-health and lack of adminis-
trative know-how.
In that part of the public service nom-
inally controlled by the board the per-
manent heads are responsible for an
efficient economical service. Both the
board and the permanent heads, however.
are frustrated by legislation which
counters the initial aim of the Public
Service Act —to put efficiency over
seniority. With strong unions and a pub-
lic conditioned to expect only bumble-
dom from the public service, the board,
the permanent heads and public-spirited
officers have an uphill fight to promote by
merit.
The public service is everybody’s Aunt
Sally. Its level of efficiency can be no
higher than Parliament and the people
permit. Parliament, doling out patron-
age, clipping wings and elevating momen-
tary political considerations over long-
term social interests, enjoys its sover-
eignty and damns co-ordination. The
public pulls down but never builds, be-
comes reconciled to mediocrity,
clamors for controls and then kicks
against the pricks.
In New South Wales, anyway, the
public service is better than a complac-
ent public deserves. —Boner Law
(N.S.W.).
Estate-agents
Estate-agents generally do a pretty
good job, but there are a few who could
be done without. These include some
who collect a fee—from £2 2s. to £lO 10s.
—in return for three addresses, on the
understanding that the “agent” offers
no warranty that they will prove suit-
able or even be available when the client
calls. Some of the accommodation
offered on these terms is dreadful. The
so-called agents have no authority in
respect of the accommodation —they
merely list the addresses and have no
instructions regarding the letting or col-
lection of rents. Should none of the
three addresses given be suitable or avail-
able the client must pay a further fee to
get more information.
As the law stands, the public has no
protection against these people. The
authorities controlling real-estate agents
have no jurisdiction in the matter and
no one else seems to care.
A further section that requires a
spring-clean is the weekend agency.
Some of these people work in other
occupations during the week and con-
vert their homes into offices on Satur-
days and Sundays. Some pirate the
advertisements of others and cause all
manner of contention as to the responsi-
bility for payment of commissions. Con-
trary to regular practice, they often re-
quire payment for advertising and out-
of-pocket expenses as well as commis-
sion on sales.
The public does not generally know
that it has a right of appeal against
charges made by these “agents,” and
contents itself with railing against the
iniquitous conduct of estate-agents in
general, classing the good with the bad.
To be effective the Licensing Act
should stipulate that an applicant must
have served a qualifying time with a
licensed agent, and have passed an
examination to demonstrate his practical
knowledge of the calling. And, of course,
he should be required to run his business
in proper business premises in a business
area.—F. R. E. I. (N.S.W.).
Indonesia
Turmoil, murder, massacre and fratri-
cidal strife rage in Indonesia —those
peaceful green islands we looked upon
as an Indo-Pacific paradise before 1942,
when a paternal Dutch Colonial Admin-
istration contained an orderly, happy and
hard-working native population.
The Dutch Administration of Indo-
nesia had its faults, but it held a firm
balance between the antagonistic Mahom-
medan and Christian native populations,
and with a strict maintenance of law and
order. Life and property throughout the
Indies was safe.
In 1946, the unseemly haste —so evident
among idealists like Dr. Evatt—to rid the
islands of their former masters made the
position of the Dutch untenable and Hol-
land bowed to pressure by the United
Nations. Pandering to Soekarno and
his pro-Japanese clique was the prevailing
dictate of fashion. Many Australians
who served in the Indies still recall with
bitterness the revolting treatment meted
out to our Allies and white neighbors,
the Dutch.
Well, the Dutch have gone, supplanted
by a peculating, treacherous, partly edu-
cated, formerly pro-Japanese crowd of
Indonesian politicians. And rising to re-
sist the openly-flouted edicts of a miser-
able Government is the power of the
Mahommedan Dar-uI-Islam and Com-
munist-controlled unions.
The full weight of Indonesian
propaganda and hate is directed against
Dutch New Guinea. If the Dutch leave,
and the Australian Government tamely
submits to Indonesian pressure, nothing
less than military action in New Guinea
will preserve our territory.— Pisang (Vic.)


His voice was testy. The Press-
interview scene plainly still
rankled.
“Ventner,” answered Sher-
wood. “I want him excused
flying this morning.”
Baumer turned the rest of
his bulk to stare incredulously
at Sherwood.
“What?” he ejaculated
roughly. “Excuse Ventner? He
hasn’t reported sick?”
“Not exactly. But he ...”
“What the devil do you mean
■—not exactly? Either the man’s
sick or he’s well! ”
Sherwood’s hands, the big
fingers open, rubbed slowly up
and down his thighs. But his
voice was still level when he
answered: “You must take my
word for it. This is an opera-
tional decision. I don’t want
him flying.”
Baumer’s voice was sibilant
with the control, so near to the
bridge, he put upon it.
“ ‘This is an operational deci-
sion,’ ” he mimicked savagely.
“Get this straight, Sherwood. 1
make the operational decisions
so far as you and the rest of the
flying personnel are concerned.
Perhaps you might like that ele-
mentary state of affairs clarified
—before the captain?”
He waited. Sherwood looked
at him.
Baumer turned back to the
flight-deck and its business be-
neath him.
“Ventner flies,” he said
briefly.
Sherwood stared at the red-
dened, beefy neck. He wet his
lips. A sudden sense made him
turn his head. The captain was
watching them.
“Yes, sir,” Sherwood said,
quietly, and left the platform.
He was almost to the ladder
when the captain called.
“Oh, Sherwood.”
He turned at once and walked
to the forrard end of the bridge.
“Yes, sir?”
The captain smiled.
“All happy about this morn-
ing’s business?”
Sherwood smiled back into
his senior’s face wind-
weathered, the eyes clear, as
though they had been polished
by the wind; seamed into deep
furrows, fertile ground for the
tufts of black hair sprouting
from his upper-cheeks. Like
an old bulldog, Sherwood
thought. Kind and strong.
Now’s my chance. He’ll under-
stand without me having to bare
Ventner’s private troubles. In
the same instant he heard
Baumer’s definite “Ventner
flies”; and remembered that
earlier scene in the captain’s
cabin.
“Yes, sir,” Sherwood lied.
“Catapult take-off first, then the
normal free take-offs. After
that we’ll have a shot at the
splash-target.” Even while he
spoke he realised that the Old
Man, possibly, already knew
what his own bloody ship was
about to do. Obviously the cap-
tain was after some other know-
ledge. He listened to Sherwood,
and when the pilot had finished
stood there, waiting for a
moment. When Sherwood made
no attempt to continue the cap-
tain nodded.
“Thank-you,” he said briefly,
and turned to look ahead.
Sherwood saluted and strode
quickly from the bridge.
He did not look at Ventner
as he came up to the group of
pilots. “Man your aircraft,” he
ordered roughly and walked on.
Ventner watched him, hesitated
for a second, then followed. It
was not until Sherwood was in
his cockpit, buckling his safety-
belt, that it occurred to him
what Ventner must have thought
of his making directly for the
bridge after his insubordina-
tion. Sherwood breathed
deeply and expelled ]%is breath
through his teeth. Now things
are lovely! Added to his home
worries, Ventner now expects to
be keel-hauled when he returns
from the exercise. Bloody
lovely! Sherwood’s thoughts
were interrupted by a magnified
voice crackling across the deck.
“Stand clear of propellers.”
Baumer waited a moment,
then ordered; “Start up!”
The klaxon blared its peremp-
tory order. Swan’s Fury emitted
a sharp crack as her starting
charges exploded. Down her
bank of exhausts little spurts of
blue flame showed palely against
the bright sunlight. Her pro-
peller turned, stiffly, swung more
easily, then resolved suddenly
into a fast-spinning arc of
silver. The motor now was a
steady snarl of sound. Sher-
wood’s own Firefly started, join-
ing with the others in a drum-
ming growl of disciplined power.
There was something remote,
helpless-looking about the
pilots, helmeted and confined in
their cockpits. None of them
could see the deck past their
cocked-up noses, except on
either side. They were turning
their heads restlessly, from side
to side. Deck-bound, the tre-
mendous power growling under
the long, sleek bonnets was a
handicap—a handicap which
had to be overcome by the direc-
tors’ nursing their snorting
charges like babies unable to
trust their own legs. They were
moving Swan up now, his Fury’s
white-and-black markings new
and clean. The new aircraft
were, of course, already fully
tested. Just as naturally, Baumer
wanted the men who were to
fly them, airborne in them be-
fore they found themselves div-
ing on enemy trenches.
Sherwood turned his head
from watching Swan’s aircraft
being bogied on the catapult
and looked at Ventner, to his
right and slightly behind him.
But Ventner’s face was almost
completely hidden by his helmet
and mouthpiece. Sherwood
shrugged. He had done his best.
And he knew, only too well, the
danger of having his own mind
on anything but the swell-lifting
tarmac and the four-hundred-
knot aircraft he had to land on
it. Then Swan was off, a bat-
winged streak.
(To be continued next week )
plain from the railway-siding.
He ran into the road wildly
waving his arms, and was hoisted
on to the back among ropes,
shovels and a group in sou’-
westers.
Just by Joe Murphy’s gate a
big red lorry was canted in the
ditch. Joe and the driver were at
work forcing slabs under the
wheels. The trailer, loaded with
flat portions of class-room,
girders, nuts, bolts, roofing,
loomed enormous in the dusk.
Nobody could have been more
grateful than a truck-driver who
had pictured himself stranded
for days on these desolate plains.
Not only men and shovels and
"Hi, boay, run over ’n' tell wha's-'is-name I Want ’ un."
trace-chains and trucks, but
whisky! They were generous
with the whisky. They wanted
him to have it. They said so.
“Mighty good of you, mates,”
the truck-driver said, fortifying
his shaken nerves.
They towed him out in no
time at all. Young Mr. Trace
dodged about, getting in the way,
feeling he was one of the gang,
and happier than he had been
since he came to Merriwidgee.
They went off in procession,
Joe’s truck in the lead, then the
big truck with the trailer, and
Alec Grimble and his crew
bringing up the rear. Mr. Trace
kept trying to explain about the
bicycle.
“Forget it,” Joe Murphy
grunted. He had taken the rain-
sodden young man in with him,
and his boots were shedding clay
over the floorboards. Joe wasn't
even listening. He concentrated
on his driving, the headlights
slashing through the rain and
the yellow spray sent up from
the road. The procession turned
off the main road and in at the
school gate.
“This the place?” the truck-
driver shouted.
“This is the place,” Joe
Murphy responded.
The driver appreciated the
way those men fell to work
stacking the load. Seldom had
he seen men work faster. After
all that whisky he only wanted
to sleep.
“You gotta sign for it,” he
told Mr. Trace, pulling the
papers out of his pocket. “Just
where I got my thumb.” They
went into the school-room and
Joe Murphy held a hurricane-
lantern. Mr. Trace signed the
manifest and delivery-coucher.
“I can give you a bed for the
night,” Joe said. “Better than
dossing here.”
The truck-driver looked at the
water on the floor. “Fancy
sleeping in this!” he said.
“How’d you like to teach in
it?” Mr, Trace asked. “All day
and every day?”
The truck-driver answered in
words that Mr. Trace would
have been startled to hear be-
fore he came to Merriwidgee;
but now he felt that the man had
summed up the school just as he
would have done himself if he
had had the vocabulary.
The truck-driver went off to
the warmth and hospitality of
Joe Murphy’s fireside, and in
the morning he made all speed
away from those parts, saying
they were Godforsaken and re-
peating other adjectives he had
used to condemn the school.
nrHE Parents and Citizens’ of
A Merriwidgee assembled and
they held a working-bee.
Luckily the rain cleared off.
They mixed cement and brought
bricks for the foundations.
They had no trouble following
the directions so kindly supplied
with the prefab. They ran that
school-room up in record time.
They painted it. They planted
little gardens round it, and it
looked smart and clean and a
credit to thern.
Presently, of course, there
were inquiries made in Mumford
Junction about the non-delivery
of one prefabricated class-room.
Investigations showed it had
been duly dispatched. The
truck-driver swore he had de-
livered it, and the manifest duly
signed was studied at head-
office. Telegrams were sent to
the district-inspector, who came
out in person to Merriwidgee and
surveyed the scene of the crime.
“Good God! ” he shouted. He
threatened Mr. Trace with sum-
mary dismissal, death and eternal
woe. Mr. Trace had been re-
hearsing his answer. His voice,
of course, spoilt it by going up
high when he wanted to be
casual.
“You said you wanted to see
a big improvement.” He waved
his hand towards the new class-
room. “It’s a big improvement,
isn’t it?”
The inspector duly reported-
it was official doom —that Mr.
Trace had shown “lack of re-
sponsibility towards depart-
mental property.” Mr, Trace
was moved away from Merri-
widgee to the great city to teach
where there would be less chance
of his manifesting his lack of
responsibility towards depart-
mental property. He said he
didn’t care, and that it had been
worth it.
He was farewelled at the
station by his fellow-thieves, and
they wrung his hand and clapped
him on the back. He often goes
back to Merriwidgee for holi-
days.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 261
Across
1- —Sepoy edited such literature. (5)
3- —When a lot of flying insects are
about yours in an unrolling
stone’s accumulations. (9)
B—ls8 —Is Victoria always South Austra-
lia, or the other way round?
(4-5)
10— —Triangular cape of cloth for a
woman in the heart of the Pacific
hunter. (s)'
11 — Urge Lincoln’s murderer to ring
a bell where the road is paid for.
(9)
12 — Siren has a wash. (5)
13 — Legless one who inspected and
officially disapproved of “Rusty
Bugles”? (6)
14— —lce-cream may come like this re-
liable supporter and friend. (5)
19 — Barbarians got the Historical
Society. (5)
20 — A rank is broken by a Turkish
Government seat. (6)
24 —-Victorian river bakers? (5)
26 — Care for a Rechabite drink,
Marco, if game? (5-4)
27 — -Yours Truly competed, although
covered with creepers. (5)
28 — William Thackeray is to stop the
way, but keep a mace neverthe-
less. (9)
29 Such services for tennis-players
balance the jewellery. (9)
30 — Coarse dozen squared nothing
between King George and the
saints. (5)
E)own
1— Muddled type is marking the
ballot-paper and pirouetting. (8)
2 Put curvy edges on two direc-
tions and cry out over a pub-
lished musical work. (8)
3 Strand color of a marsupial in
the merchant navy. (6)
4 -Master’s century after tea finally
belonging to the girl. (8)
5 Note the implication in trans-
Channel iron. (5)
6 Geological period makes Leo
ace one without initials. (6)
7 Drunk is thus employed. (6)
9 —Half a dozen kid nothing but a
feature of tremulous singing. (7)
15 — Able to stumble for a spell. (7)
16— A muscle portent in a play by
Clare Boothe. (3, 5)
17 — Father on leave is twice seen in
an away-from-it-all environment.
(4, 4)
18 — Lady don’t allow nothingness.
(8 >
21 —His work isn’t original, but he
has a little business on the jetty.
(6)
22—Flyers noted for buzzing around
about six clusters of peaches,
perhaps. (6)
23—Many martyrs died at these
tomato-supporters accepted by
bookmakers. (6)
25—Rides into a partisan. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 260


u
THE
ERG
BATTERIES
sk'-rtf. '
mm
sgSj^SftßK%
•si:f>y-y
liiifiis
.-;, • *3 I L - •' ■ -i"
MPPP*?
• • :•. ..■■!. >!■ *lvlv.v;-.*i>‘ .. ■.: .jt .'.vX
. •;;:. -.• J ‘- u
r s. :
>rr
.
MS®
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR All.
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO. LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
NSW.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade. BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICI
Victoria:
KEEP BROS, & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
LTD.
•>
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; 86565, 84448
