

d
THE HOUSE
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“MAN ON THE LAND" FEATURE —PAGE 30
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3903
Wednesday, December 1, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
r pHE colleges and the churches of
-*■ Oxford, together with a few domestic
buildings, provide a magnificent record of
architectural development in England from
Saxon times. Here may be seen the main
characteristics of the various styles from
Norman to Perpendicular which were
gradually evolved from the eleventh
to the sixteenth century, lingering well
into the seventeenth, long after the
Renaissance had destroyed the last traces
of the Gothic spirit on the Continent of
Europe.
The largest and richest of the
University’s twenty-eight colleges is Christ
Church, usually known as “The House.”
It was founded in 1525 by Cardinal
Wolsey and at that time bore the name of
Cardinal College. In 1532, however, it
was taken over by Henry VIII and
established in 1546 as Christ Church.
The enormous kitchen remains in
appearance very much as it did in Wolsey’s
time, except fot the addition of modern
culinary contrivances. Nearby is the
magnificent Hall with its finely carved
oak-beam roof, shown in the accom-
panying illustration. The spacious Hall,
part of which was completed by Wolsey,
was the scene of many royal banquets in
the reigns of Henry VIII and of Charles I.
It is renowned not only for being the
largest and finest of its kind in Oxford, but
also for its valuable collection of famous
pictures by such artists as Reynolds, Lely,
Romney and Millais. Here can be seen
portraits of John Wesley, Gladstone and
of Charles Dodgson, better known as
Lewis Carroll —the author of “Alice in
Wonderland.” He was a clergyman and,
as a resident member of an Oxford
College, he lectured on mathematics.
Besides being the author of the most
humorous and delightful children’s book
ever produced, he wrote, strangely
enough, numerous works on mathematics.
Queen Victoria was so delighted with
“Alice in Wonderland” that she requested
future works by the same author should
be sent to her. The next publication to
appear was “The Condensation of Deter-
minants”—the Queen’s comments are not
recorded!
Cardinal Wolsey, who is so intimately
associated with Christ Church College, is
commemorated by a statue which stands
over the main entrance. Surmounting
the ornate gateway, completed by Sir
Christopher Wren in 1682, is Tom Tower
in which hangs the famous 7-ton bell,
Great Tom. Every night at five minutes
past nine its mellow tones give the signal
for the closing of college gates throughout
Oxford.
FOUNDED BY WOLSEY, “THE HOUSE” IS AN OXFORD GEM


N PROMOTION
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
fd
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Svdney ■ 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAID THIS COUPON ———
To STOTT’S 1 Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2254) •■■■• AGE
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Ro^’
Point, will find the book you ks ol
sport, history, science, now.
ecdesiastxcs. Wnte BOOKW
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
BUSH AND BALLIOL
Sir Keith Hancock’s Country and
Calling (Faber), the life-story of one of
this country’s most distinguished
scholars and historians, Rhodes Scholar
and author of the well-known Australia,
reads almost as if it were two separate
autobiographies: one, the story of his
childhood in the bush, and the other his
academic career.
The bush story is entirely captivating.
It is about his grandfather who sucked
peppermints and shared some with the
small boy during the sermon in church,
and his grandmother who had a wonder-
ful kitchen-garden in which the young
Hancock learned the delight of eating
uncooked ripe gooseberries, “particularly
the fat yellow ones” (the hairy ones, were
they?).
It is about his father who, in “a black
coat that reached to his knees, a dog-
collar and stock and a black saucer-shaped
hat,” set out for his first parish at
Nathalia in the flat hot north of Victoria
and discovered, when he unearthed the
church secretary:
“There isn’t any congregation; it has
joined the Methodists or given up religion
altogether.”
Every Sunday, in search of the five
separate congregations who were supposed
eagerly to await him around the 600
square-miles of his parish, the parson
rode 30 to 40 miles on horses which his
devoted parishioners sold him and which,
if they did not bolt with him, instantly
went lame; then he travelled by a
secondhand buggy which alternately was
kicked to pieces by the horses or
fell to pieces of its own accord. His
first start towards acquiring a congrega-
tion came when he refused to take a fee
after conducting the burial-service for
a drowned child—Sir Keith makes a fine
character out of him. Incidentally, the
author was to find later at Balliol, when
six or seven Rhodes Scholars were
gossiping together, that every one of
them —an Australian, a New Zealander,
a Newfoundlander, a Canadian, a
Rhodesian, a South African—was the
son of a parson.
Except this inherited impulse towards
scholarship and the study of human
problems, being a parson’s son does not
seem noticeably to have affected
Hancock’s boyhood. He became, he says,
“a young tough,” and he led a most
normal life, heaving rocks at Chinese
market-gardeners (which seems to have
been a universal Australian enjoyment),
eating pineapples for threepence each
and peaches for practically nothing “if
the five of us children could scrape up
sixpence between us to pay our way into
the orchard,” dropping a penny over the
fence into the street so that passers-by
would think it had fallen from their own
pockets and stop and search for it (a most
promising device: one is sorry one never
practised it), swimming in the creek
with his big brother Jim who had a
Greek Hiding Place and a Roman Camp
up the willow-trees, watching his wily
brother Justin win a fight by putting an
iron fire-grate inside his shirt for his
opponent to break his knuckles on and,
in a crowning glory, being trained by
Justin as a professional boxer:
It happened quite accidentally when I
emerged the victor from an unwilling combat
with Harry Bottrell. In my next fight
I was less unwilling and before long I was
looking for blood. Justin then stepped in
and told the boys that for sufficient gate-
money in cash or kind, payable in advance,
he was ready to arrange a pugilistic ring
every afternoon. While he was collecting
halfpennies, cigarette-cards, 'marbles and
such things 1 would walk up to some
wretched boy and give him “the coward’s
blow” —a challenge to choose between shame
and battle. A few boys chose shame; the
rest fought and fell.
It is sad to relate, but perhaps
significant to a student of international
affairs, that it was a Chinese boy who
ended this resounding career: a gentle,
peaceable youth who said nothing but
silently snarled, and slew young Hancock
in a matter of seconds.
It is a long way in both style and
elevation from such happy fisticuffs to
the strangely guarded, awkward and (to
this reviewer) completely mystifying
account which Sir Keith later gives of
his negotiations with the Interim Council
of the Australian National University
at Canberra after he had been invited
to help establish it and take a post
there;
Looking back now from 1953 I believe
that I can detect some signs of friction on
one important issue between some members
Of the Interim Council and me. I shall
not try to explain what the friction was
about. Nor shall I try to explain how the
Interim Council and I, when 1 was back
in England, grew gradually to be at cross-
purposes with each other. In an earlier
draft of this chapter 1 did try to make
these explanations but found myself unable
to make them adequately because I knew
only one side of the story.
These may be mighty words; they
appear to be, even, magnanimous. But
they are not very good autobiography;
and, while reticence may be advisable
and even admirable on this ocasion, it
must be said that much more in the
later chapters of Country and Calling is
similarly restricted in interest to the
universities.
The general reader who perseveres
through the passages of small interest to
him will, indeed, continue to find Sir
Keith occasionally rewarding: some of
his travels in Italy, for instance, when
he was investigating the historical
background of Fascism and eating
spaghetti with the populace in out-of-
the-way villages; moments at Balliol
when the wild men ate their dinners
backwards, from cigars to soup and
sherry; travels with tinkers in Kerry
and a meeting with Maud Gonne, “who
made a dramatic entry into the long,
candle-lit drawingroom, a tall straight
figure clad from top to toe in deep
mourning for the Irish Republic”; a
visit to Palestine when he learned the
strange importance that could be attached
to the verb “to slink” —“In the evening
of my first day in Jerusalem a friendly
Armenian drew hie aside and whispered,
‘Don’t you go tomorrow to the Jaffa
Gate; they think you slink’”; fire-
watching at St. Paul’s during the war
and the wonderful picture of London
heroism implied in the simple statement
that Sir Keith never once saw the people
running to shelter from the bombs; the
Quaker lady at Birmingham who once
said to her husband, “Hast thou put the
Adco on the muck-heap?”
But such patches of life and color
are comparatively rare, and the appeal
of the bulk of the book must be to
the special audiences interested in the
outline of an outstanding university
career in Australia and England, the
management and functions of a university.
Imperial relationships and the craftsman-
ship of historians, with special emphasis
on the right of the historian to deal with
contemporary events, as Sir Keith did
in the series of official histories of war-
time activities which he wrote and edited
for the British Government
THE HEADS
The Heads are now islands. Fourteen
years
Since 1 came here in youth; and fears.
Then founded, are facts of erosion.
As though, today, on sight, an explosion
Sank the battleship-looking land,
Scuttled at the river’s mouth; and sand
Pouring into one hulk of tree-stumps and
rock,
And the other, just fo’c’sle and bridge,
mock
As two wrecks from a distance, are
Makeshifts for foundered ships; bare
Resemblances we cannot contemplate
Without we think of some known wreck.
Rate
These others as unimportant. Strangely,
at least.
We cannot dismiss, as trivial, ground to
the sea lost.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Amazonia Unvarnished
If the title and dust-cover of My
Amazon Adventure (Odhams) ra
expectations of highly colored, thrul-
packed episodes of the type normally
associated with travel-books dealing
with the river of that name, the reader
is bound for disappointment, as the tale
of the very real dangers of the self-
imposed task of Sebastian Snow errs
from the truth only on the side of over-
modesty. To anyone who knows the
high Andes and its rivers, the absence
of hair-breadth escapes from death at the
hands of headhunters —probably th®
most maligned of all the Amazonian
peoples —or of 80ft. (and longer)
anacondas is very welcome. tt
In answer to an advertisement for an
extra gun for sporting and exploratory
expedition western Amazonia, the
author engaged himself to collect
meteorological data, to measure areas
and depths of lakes and speeds of glaciers,
and to explore the headwaters of the
Maranon river, which he (and his
“employer,” John Brown) considered to
be the true source of the Amazon.
No useful purpose would be served
in examining this thesis, which is
immaterial to the enjoyment of Snow s
book, but his courage in undertaking
such work at an altitude of over 15,000 ft.
and to follow it up by shooting the
notoriously dangerous Retema and
Aromunga rapids is undeniable. His
feat is all the more astounding as it
was performed with ridiculously and
dangerously inadequate equipment,
finance and supplies.
What lured Sebastian Snow to take
on the job is difiicult to trace. He
was physically handicapped by a
damaged hip and faulty eyesight and
lacked both training and the urge for
scientific attainment. The driving force
may have been boredom, a suppressed
love of adventure or an atavistic
wanderlust; it certainly was not bravado,
but there can be little doubt that
accomplishment was due to a streak of
consummate obstinacy which overcame
bodily weakness and poverty.
Incidentally, the book shows that Snow
is no linguist and is unlikely ever to
become one. In the opening chapters
his Spanish is atrocious, and even his
enforced six-months’ stay at the
Hacienda Chuquiten did not noticeably
improve it. The style, except in a couple
of instances, cannot be described as
elegant. But there is little doubt that
this work will live long after the more
lurid accounts of the area have been
denounced and forgotten. —L. O.
MOONLIGHT SKIERS
From the ski-run lodge the light
Spills in a golden pool
Against the gossamer-white
Of hills, soft in the cool
And breathless hush of night.
The darker shapes of skiers soon
Come weaving down the slide.
Caught against the inviolable moon
Snowplough-turning they glide
To the skis’ soft, sibilant tune.
The swift rush or life how they feel
Down the slopes in a thrill of the race,
The cold bite of air as they wheel
Their stocks urging them on into space.
Phantom-like and unreal.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
KEVIN R. RYAN.
Australian Batsmen
Anyone who has listened to A. G.
(“Johnny”) Moyes “commentating” on
cricket knows his style: pontifical,
inclined to the fulsome, not a born
orator, but genial and expert in his
subject. He writes much as he speaks.
Still, with this—shall we say?—some-
what inelegant stance, Moyes has
played many good knocks, on the air
and in print, and can score with shots
all round the wicket. His latest boun-
dary-hit is Australian Batsmen: From
Charles Bannerman to Neil Harvey
(Angus and Robertson).
Two batsmen get chapters to them-
selves —needless to say, Trumper and
Bradman: the two wizards of the willow,
each supreme in his time, both perhaps
timelessly supreme. Bradman is the pre-
eminent Tun-getter (among Australians,
who don’t play nearly as much first-class
cricket as the English), and he still holds
most of our records —among them, the
only Australian to make a century of
centuries (117); 28,067 first-class runs
12,000 more than the next-best tally. In
all Tests he made 6996 runs in 80 inn-
ings with 10 not-outs, thus missing a
Test average of exactly 100 by one four!
In the averages Trumpet is now pretty
well down the list, but:
No one who saw him make playthings of
some of cricket’s most accomplished bowlers
will be content to regard the figures as
real evidence of comparative worth, for
only Bradman of later years could properly
be mentioned in the same paragraph with
him, and I admit the glories of Clem Hill
and Charles Macartney.
On the matter of averages, Moyes well
knows that figures don’t tell all, “for
averages don’t include points for ‘guts,’
for thoughtfulness, for defence against
great odds.” (Here speaking of one-time
Australian skipper Herbie Collins.)
And, speaking of Bill Brown’s attractive
figures, he adds that even so they don’t
show the style and the charm of his
batting.
Another Australian run-getting
machine was the Victorian Ponsford, the
only man of any country to have scored
over 400 twice in first-class games
(Bradman made one, 452, for N.S.W.
against Queensland, the highest first-
class score). Ponsford’s name, as Moyes
says, has been dimmed somewhat by the
coming of the greater Bradman; yet
some bowlers, it was said, preferred to
bowl to Bradman. “Ponny,” though
Moyes does not say so, was the one bats-
man who could make run-for-run in
partnership with the Master (as in the
pair’s two big Test partnerships, in Eng-
land in 1934; 388 for the fourth- and
451 for the second-wicket in succeeding
Tests).
Picking out one or two others for
brief mention, there are Charles Ban-
nerman, who made the first Test-century
(165) and who scored the first xentury
for an Australian team in England, 133
against Leicestershire in 1878 ; Murdoch,
Australia’s greatest batsman before
Trumper, first double-century maker in
Tests ; Midwinter, the only man who has
played Test-cricket for both Australia
and England ; Tom Horan, apparently
the first of the cricketers-turned-press-
men; Bruce, first of Australia’s dis-
tinguished left-handers, who on tour of
England in 1893 scored, by a curious
coincidence, 1314, “which history tells
us was the date of the Battle of Ban-
nockburn, fought so gloriously by
another of his name” ; Arthur Mailey, who
would probably “smile broadly at being
included in a book on batsmen” —he’s in
because he once made 46 in a Test-record
last-wicket partnership of 127; Neil
Harvey, who has unmercifully belted
South African bowlers in two Test series
—■“but now that he has married a lass
from the Union he may in future be
kinder.”
The Wall-test
It is annoying to have seen some of
the world’s greatest galleries and still feel
unable to grasp the essence of a painting.
In treatises upon art, in introductions and
notes to books of pictures, in reviews of
exhibitions, the world’s art-critics thunder
meanings, interpretations and instructions
how-to-look-at-this-masterpiece. One
grasps much of this instruction intellec-
tually. But apply such intellectual stand-
ards to some work in an Australian ex-
hibition, for instance; and the chuckle
of the cognoscenti spreads from ear to
ear. -i
In time, wearying of the game, one
says to oneself; “Anyway, would I like
to have it on my rented wall? Would
it give me endless pleasure and increasing
delight; would I never weary of contem-
plating it?” To which one answers: “To
be perfectly frank, unless it were useful
to break the spread of wallpaper, hide a
mark on the wall, give the room a lived-
in appearance and impress visitors, I
should not care if I never saw it again.
This is just as well, since most of the
pictures one might be persuaded to own
experimentally seem to be highly valued
by other people.
Still, it is easy to dawdle over the
Faber Gallery of large-paper pamphlets,
each with its ten detachable prints.
Garwhal Painting, for instance, with
introduction and notes by W. G. Archer,
Keeper of the Indian Section, Victoria
and Albert Museum, and to admire as
Mr. Archer whispers how the young jam
in “A Night of Storm” was painted b)
the master of a school which sprang up
in a North Indian court about 1775, an
vanished when the Gurkhas wiped n-
court out in 1804: there she is m the
dark forest tripping off to her ime ,
lightning and darkness suggesting
rush of love to the head ; snakes emp •-
sising the motif and following the un
lations of Her firm re: drooping sprays i
(Continued on page 35)


F ractical Santas agree value
These electrical appliances from
Xmas Tree Decorations, comprising 16
coloured globes and one spare. Complete
with flex and plugs. Priced at a set *2/6
,
* vf *< / ' i
Amazing new “Menu-Master” fries, grills
and toasts. Ideal for small flatette or week-
ender. With flex and plug. Price £l3/8/-
Two-speed “Kwlkmix” graduated glass
container, self-sealing lid. Mixes, shreds,
blends, grates, purees. Priced at £33/10/-
The new “F'rymatic” cooks soups, stews,
etc., deep fries fish, potato chips and chicken.
Thermostatic automatic control. £l7/12/6
“Sunbeam” Mixmaster, the finest food
mixer in the world. 240 volts £27/6/', 32
volts, 50 volts and 100 volts at £29/8/-
“Hot Point” lightweight automatic iron,
weighs only lbs. Sole plate of 27|- sq.
ins. heats very quickly. Price £5/12/6
“Morphy-Kichards” automatic electric
toaster has a six toast-type dial setter.
Gleaming chromium plated finish. £ll/4/6
“Sunbeam” Mixmaster Attachments. The
Meat Grinder-Food Chopper is £B/17/6.
The High-Speed Drink Mixer is £2/19/6
“Eskimo” electric fans make wonderful gifts,
lOin. oscillating type, £9/17/6; lOin. fixed,
£B/?/-; Sin. fixed type priced at £6/10/-
( 1
L ;
“Gilford” automatic electric jug switches
itself oZ when water boils. Safety tip'up
lid. Cream porcelain body. Priced at 75/-
“Toxit” will kill all those insects pests. Just
plug it in to your power point. Either 240
volts or 32 volts. With 1 doz. tablets, 38/10
“Metelec” electric waffle iron makes de'
lidous golden brown waffles for breakfast,
lunch and dinner. Priced at £6/17/6
Do Your Xmas Shopping
the T.O.P.S. Way
Christmas Shopping is easy—the
T.O.P.S. way. Just ring 80951,
ask for T.O.P.S. and let our
courteous assistants shop for you.
Order Your Xmas
Hams Early
Don’t be disappointed. Order
your Xmas hams early. Just
ring Bo9sl—ask for our Gro-
eery Dept.—leave your order.
Here’s a Novel
Christmas Present
Have your children sketched by
Lyn Lavelle. Sketches only take
about 20 minutes and are amas-
ingly true to life. No waiting—
just ring our Picture Framing
Department for an appointment.
Priced at only 12/6 each.
Store opens 8.30
For the convenience of its many cus'
tamers, ANTHONT HORDERNS’
opens every morning at 8.30. Come
and have breakfast —any day, Monday
to Friday—from 8.30, in our Dining
Room situated on the Second Floor.
OUR REPAIR CENTRE!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ is famous for their Electrical repairs. So if you have
a faulty iron, toaster or waffle iron, bring them into our Ground Floor Pitt Street
Department and have our efficient craftsmen repair them for you.
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns
f
ELECTRICAL CENTRE AND REPAIRS, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.O. SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 1, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3903
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE THREATENED RAILWAYS
THE States’ conference on inter-State road traffic
in Sydney during the week failed to achieve
unanimity, but three States, N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Queensland, all “Labor”-governed, have
decided to pass legislation to circumvent the ruling
of the Privy Council. As Mr. Wetherell, the N. S.
Wales Minister, coyly puts it: —
The licences that have been issued to inter-
state hauliers are invalid. We propose to issue
licences that we believe will be valid. Legislation
will be drafted to create a licensing- or pennit-
system in accordance with the Privy Council’s judg-
ment. This will give the States regulatory power
over transport-vehicles which operate inter-State
and protect people from dangers on our roads that
would inevitably result from uncontrolled traffic.
Mr. Wetherell’s statement is, of course, completely
disingenuous. It would be quite possible to have
a ten times larger flow of inter-State traffic on the
roads without adding to the danger.
The railway-systems, with break-of-gauge, are
unable to compete with road-haulage in many
fields. They are not even able to compete with it
in the local field, and become less capable every
day of handling the traffic offered or grabbed.
This is so much so that the N. S. Wales
Railways Department actually makes contracts with
road-hauliers to carry goods for it, pays them a
lower rate than it receives, thus making a profit for
no service (a commercially immoral proceeding
according to every tenet of Socialism); and the
haulier sub-contractors then make a substantial
profit, showing the inefficiency of Mr. Wetherell’s
and other juggernauts. But the objective of State
Ministers is not to give efficient service, or cheap
service, or to protect the people from dangers, but
to protect the railways, and it can be taken for
granted that when the regulations are applied
which “are to control the loads which may be
carried on inter-State vehicles and the speed at
which they may travel,” those loads and speed will
be such as to prevent the vehicles operating
efficiently and putting inefficient Government
competitors to shame.
That in arranging this the spirit of the Com-
monwealth Constitution is flouted, the rights of
individuals trampled underfoot and every principle
of equity and political decency insulted will not
matter twopence to people like Premiers Cahill and
Gair. Anything goes, as somebody remarked in
Queensland when Theodore, the originator of the
kind of State Government Australia gets today,
used the Sugar Acquisition Act to get control of a
trotting-course.
The inter-State transport issue, however, is
more than a State matter. Freedom of inter-State
traffic and commerce derives from the basic roots of
the principles on which Federation is built. But the
States, or most of them, have little time for
Federation at the present juncture. They all want
to be little nations. They are willing to bear with
the Commonwealth as their hired milker which can
get money from the taxpayers and thus save them-
selves the odium of being taxgatherers. They are
also willing that the Commonwealth should have
the task of defence on its hands. But for the most
part “Labor” States are unprepared to follow a
policy co-operative with the defence authorities
where it conflicts with their own financial and
political interests.
It seems that it might be better if the States
recognised the inevitable and devoted their atten-
tion to a logical approach to the whole problem.
The first basic condition precedent to their right to
interfere with competition the railways is the
provision of a cheap and efficient railway-system
among themselves, operating at a cost to their
customers as low as, or less than, road-transport run
by private enterprise. But they make little move in
this direction. Most of the railway-systems are
abdicating to the air in the passenger division, never
anticipating developments, but running behind both
the road- and air-carriers shouting to their
customers to come back after they have lost them
through sloth and neglect. And their one recipe
for keeping their goods-traffic is to bludgeon
competitors to death by the wayside.
The stage seems to have been reached when a
serious constructive conference should be held on
the basis of a Commonwealth plan to place long-
distance roads and traffic within the ambit of
Commonwealth control as they are now within the
ambit of Commonwealth finance. The present
condition of affairs can bring about chaos. The
recent judgment can lead to a competition between
the States for registration of vehicles, and the
attitude of Transport Ministers is a direct incentive
to a kind of lawbreaking by the individual which
is always the product of overbearing official
repression and injustice. Whatever moves the
Governments make to defeat the clear intention of
the Constitution, and whatever the pretexts on
which they make them, they will have little
sympathy from public opinion. So far, as exempli-
fied by Mr. Wetherell’s explanations. State plans
look shabby and evasive, and have no relationship
to their announced objectives.
The future of the railways will have to be faced
squarely sooner or later. With the extra financial
load put upon them by the margins awards in the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, and the added
check to their operation free of competition brought
about by the Privy Council, the eastern systems are
in a bad way, which will not be cured by anything
save a major all-round overhaul and reorganisation.
In N. S. Wales, if the road-haulage were wiped
out, it is very doubtful whether the railways could
handle the extra traffic. And, moreover, under
present conditions—the forty-hour week, loaf,
go-slow and inefficient and insufficient rolling-
stock—the more goods they handle the steeper the
plunge towards the precipice. The strongest
financier would shudder at the thought of whht
would happen to the finances of the eastern States
if a depression added to the existing problems of
railway transport.
Cahill's Liquor-laws
WHATEVER may have been Premier Cahill’s
intention a few months ago when he said his
Government would not necessarily act upon the
result of the liquor referendum and would regard
it as a consultative measure rather than a decisive
one, the decision of his Cabinet to act on the result
is commonsense. The 50p.c.-plus who voted for
10-o’clock at least know what they want, but a
large proportion of the six-o’clock vote is in reality
a prohibition vote, as the main body running the
early-closing campaign, the Temperance Alliance,
is in reality not in favor of six-o’clock closing at all,
but merely advocates it as the lesser of two evils,
and would, if it had the power, close all hotels and
breweries and ban the consumption of alcohol.
That, at least, is the impression their evidence
before the Maxwell Commission gave, and in their
determination to oppose an extension of hours
several of their witnesses seemed willing to shut
their eyes completely to what is known as “the
six-o’clock swill.” One clergyman said he thought
that description was an exaggeration, and when he
was asked to say that “no reasonable objection”
could be taken to conditions in Sydney hotels in
the late afternoons he replied “There is not much
wrong with it.” Another minister said he would
not agree that there were any evils associated with
six-o’clock closing, except that he would like to
shorten the hours. Asked whether he would prefer
four-o’clock, he replied “Yes, I prefer four-o’clock.
As a matter of fact, I prefer none at all—no
licence.”
Maxwell, J., the royal commissioner, com-
mented that “the opinion of a particular witness
that shorter hours are desirable, however honest
that opinion is, loses much force if, in fact, the
witness would if possible close all hotels
altogether,” His own opinion, after hearing all the
evidence, and after investigating the situation for
himself, was that
there can be no doubt upon the evidence that
in the metropolitan area conditions associated
with six-o’clock closing are deplorable ; apart
from any other consideration, a refusal to
attempt some reform involves, in my opinion,
the conscious perpetuation of a clearly
established evil; in addition, the present closing-
hour encourages sly-grog and after-hour trading
at blackmarket rates,
Cahill’s proposed amendments represent at
least an attempt to end or lessen this “clearly
established evil,” though no one but a supreme
optimist would imagine that the mere extending of
the closing hours of hotels from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.
is going to wipe out immediately the com-beef rush
which at present fills the bars to bursting-point
between five and six.
Other factors beside the closing-time contribute
to the problem. Habits have been built up over
long years. Men who now drop in for a few drinks
after work may, in time, postpone their potations
until after dinner, but to begin with there will
probably not be much falling-off in the late-
afternoon guzzle. Men customarily drink at pubs
near their place of work, not near their homes. The
reason for this, apart from the time-factor, is that
they like to drink with their mates, whose homes
are probably scattered among many suburbs; it
will take more than an alteration in closing-hours
to change this very natural habit.
The Cahill bill includes a provision for a break
from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., presumably to
encourage unstable citizens to call it a day and go
home. It isn’t likely to have that effect; the type of
character it is aimed at is quite capable of loitering
around outside for an hour, until the doors open
again.
There seems to be no reason why there should
be any break at all. People cannot be made sober
by Act of Parliament; sobriety comes from self-
discipline, and, outside prison, it cannot be imposed
on a person without his co-operation. Too much
of our legislation stems from the premise that it is
right to restrict the liberties and rights of the whole
community in order to protect from their own folly
the few who can’t be trusted to look after them-
selves. As to the “break” —the three States which
permit hotels to remain open in the evening seem
to get on very well without it. In Queensland
(10 p.m.), Westralia (9 p.m.) and particularly in
Tasmania (10 p.m.), the rate of convictions for
drunkenness compares favorably with that in early-
closing New South Wales, and, although there are
no statistics available, it has never been suggested
that the percentages of broken homes in Brisbane,
Perth or Hobart is any greater than in Sydney.
What is needed is less of the mentality which
strives to place straitjacket restrictions upon drink-
ing and more of an attempt to secure conditions
under which drinking becomes a pleasant adjunct
to social intercourse instead of an end in itself.
Admittedly the ingrained habit of perpendicular
drinking is against this, and the Maxwell report
commented that “the nature and construction of
bars” militated against immediate improvement.
But the report also saw a “clear need for provision
for drinking at tables or seated” and for “greater
provision for either gardens or open-air bars.”
At present most of the facilities for open-air
drinking in Sydney are provided by the City
Council, which provides the footpaths on to which
the overflow from city bars debouches. Judge
Maxwell found this phenomenon an indication of
a desire “to escape the atmosphere inside and a
preference for the open air,” but it could also be
explained by the fact that a given space will hold
so many drinkers and drinks and no more. Many
publicans have already announced their intention
of providing better facilities; the licensing
authorities should be instructed to see that those
who make no effort to do so do not get a renewal
of their licences.
The new bill promises better facilities for
drinking with meals; it should also include provi-
sion for eating with drinks. The breweries and the
U.L.V.A. have both resisted attempts by individual
publicans to restore the system of counter-lunches
and snacks, once a feature of Sydney hotels, but
something of the sort must be provided if hotel-bars
are to become anything more than an apparatus
for pouring beer down men’s throats. Empty-
stomach drinking is one of the worst features of
the six-o’clock swill.
A point often overlooked in the discussion of
crowded bars is that the number of hotels does
not increase with the population. The reverse
has been the case. Back in 1908 when the
population of New South Wales was 1,500,000
there were 3023 licensed hotels. By 1920, largely
through the operation of local-option, the number
was down to 2537, and at the present time there
are 2028 to serve a population of three million.
The reduction has come about largely through the
efforts of “temperance” people, who have
apparently felt that by reducing the number of
hotels they are striking a blow at the evils of
drink. A more potent result has been the enrich-
ment of the holders of the remaining licences
(including the breweries, which hold 884 of them)
and the elevation of the publican into a position of
wealth and influence which he probably enjoys
nowhere else in the world.
There is an overwhelming case for more
licences, and this will not be entirely answered by
increasing the number of club-licences. More hotels
won’t necessarily mean more drinking, but they
will definitely mean more space in which to drink.
Huge hotels with acres of bars are not required;
what is needed is a greater number of small,
intimate pubs run by men who are not out to make
a quick fortune out of drunks but who are prepared
to work hard to build up a regular clientele and
retain it by giving good and friendly service and
to be satisfied with the comfortable living such a
house would provide.
In granting extra licences no concern should
be felt for the complaints of publicans who have
bought into existing hotels at inflated prices and
feel they have a right to have their virtual
monopoly safeguarded. No compensation was paid
to those who lost their licences under local option-
and the trade, including the breweries, has ha
the benefit of a restricted field for too long already.


“WHAT BLOODY MAN IS THAT?”
Shakspeare (“Macbeth,” Act I, Scene II)


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Australian Shelf
The statement issued in English from
The Hague on the claims of Indonesia
to Dutch New Guinea gives a sound and
logical summary of the case which
should be studied carefully in Canberra.
The Netherlands Government in its
booklet “rejects every argument” which
the Indonesians have advanced in sup-
port of their claim. It says specifically that
the Indonesian contention that Papuans
and New Guinea Islanders are Indo-
nesians is “far-fetched”; that anthro-
pologists have proved the Papuans to
be Melanesians, while the Indonesian
races belong to the “Xanthoderne, or
Mongolian, Group”; that the Papuan and
Bismarck languages have no relationship
whatever to the Indonesian group of
languages save for a few words of trade
Malay that have crept in.
Geographically, the Dutch maintain
that New Guinea belongs to the “Aus-
tralian continental shelf,” which is quite
separate from the Asian continental shelf.
And this is a point of great interest and
importance to Australia, since some of
our muddled thinking is trying to argue
both ways.
Dr. Evatt, with Dr. Burton and Dr.
Macmahon Ball, searching for new
worlds to conquer and busybody in,
were swift to advance the theory that
Australia is part of the South-East Asian
zone, and that therefore we have a right,
apart from defensive measures, to meddle
happily in Asian politics. Sir Percy
Spender, when he was External Affairs
Minister, followed the leadership of his
predecessors and plumped for the theory
that we are Asian.
But recently Australia has discovered
the Australian shelf and asserted, for
the benefit of Japanese shell-poachers,
that we have rights “over the seabed
and subsoil of the continental shelf
contiguous to Australia and its terri-
tories.” It has made trepassing regula-
tions accordingly. The Japanese Govern-
ment is appealing to the International
Court in the matter.
Undoubtedly the shelf theory is logi-
cal geographically. The shelf runs right
round Australia in varying widths and
covers the whole of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria and waters north to New Guinea.
Where it cuts off, the natural boundaries,
racial and geographical, of the Indonesian
area begin and Australia logically ends,
along with its attendant island groups.
There is scarcely any part of it which has
not sitting on it some island or feature
of moment to Australian defence and
the Australian economy.
However, it is impossible to maintain
that it forms the base for a separate
continental entity and at the same time
to hold that Australia is part of the
South-East Asian zone.
The Indonesians, whose islands are
scarcely a nation at all in present
circumstances, are fighting hard before
U.N.O. Political Committee calling for
new negotiations with the Dutch about
the matter. There is little likelihood of
their getting anywhere. The British
Government’s representative announced
that Britain would give the strongest
possible support to the Dutch view-
point and that there was no case what-
ever for transferring Irian from Dutch
rule.
In any case, the Dutch are determined
that the country shall remain in their
hands. In the Dutch Parliament, while
the debate in U.N.O. was going on, the
Netherlands Defence Minister announced
that Dutch forces were ready and willing
to defend the colony’s integrity and that
Holland would deal well- and hard-
aimed blows against any attempted inva-
sion and would not hesitate to repel an
attack by force. And Mr. Casey has
made it clear that Australia will not agree
to any changes which might provide
ground for the lodgment of an inter-
national Communist organisation beside
New Guinea territory.
Vishinsky Passes
The daily press announced that the news
of the death of Andrei Vishinsky, “who
had suffered a heart condition for many
years,” “stunned” delegates at the United
Nations Assembly; also it “shocked
them. . , . ,
According to the cables, Vishinsky was
a “colorful figure,” and the night before
he had been reported as “in fine humor,
laughing and talkative as always. It was
recorded that he “was famous for his
wit. Parliamentary debating skill, lengthy
speeches, and, until recently, his violent
invectives against the West.” Not a bad
fellow, it seems, and even a bit of an
aristocrat—the “offspring of a well-to-do
revolutionary family, and his father was
a Tsarist official.”
In plain fact death should not have
worried him, for he was one of the most
cold-blooded organisers of butchery that
even the Russians knew. Anybody who
has read the Russian official report of the
trials preceding the pre-war purges which
wiped out almost half the Kremlin
hierarchy and the Red Army Com-
mander-in-Chief and Chief-of-Staff, plus
Beria’s predecessor in office, 60,000
officers and officials, would scarcely feel
that he was much loss. His methods were
ruthless. His advocacy was based on
accusations fantastic and unbelievable.
He had been kept in his post at U.N.O.
because he was one of those in high
places who could be trusted to maintain
a hatred of everything Western.
He was largely, it is believed, the
author of the savage and inequitable
criminal code of the Soviet Union, and
his monumental work on Soviet Union
criminal law is read as a standard author-
ity.
Whether it was his heart condition or
Malenkov that got him in the end will
never be known. He and Molotov were
the last remaining samples of the old
regime of Stalin’s early days, and he
followed the usual fashion among high
officials of dying suddenly and unex-
pectedly. Dmitrov, Zhdanov and many
others had almost exactly parallel ends.
They were hale and hearty or slightly
indisposed one day. They were dead the
next. Somebody then discovered that
they had been suffering from a heart
condition or some other condition for a
long time.
It will be interesting to see who the
next Soviet leader is who fills the garish
millionaire palace in which the Kremlin’s
democrats rusticate in the United States,
now that Vishinsky has been returned to
his native land in a £3500 coffin. The
choice should give some indication of
Russian trends of thought.
Compassion—or Justice?
Jury verdicts have often given grounds
for unease in recent years, more
especially in the case of victims of car-
accidents who are awarded fantastic
monetary sums in damages because
juries generally believe that an insurance
company will foot the bill, and an
insurance company appears to most
jurymen to be an impersonal but wealthy
thing. In criminal cases, on the other
hand, there have been instances where
juries seem to have gone against the
weight of evidence in order to treat some
accused with compassion instead of with
justice.
The trend is not confined to Australia.
Writing in the October issue of “Books,”
the journal of the National Book League,
London, L. P. Hartley begins:
“In the past the function of compas-
sion was fairly clearly defined. You
were sorry for someone because he was
the victim of misfortune; because,
undeservedly, he was made to suffer.
Nowadays you are expected to feel sorry
for someone because he has an
unpleasant or criminal character which
makes other people suffer.”
Mr. Hartley continues: “Unpleasant
and even criminal characters are now
treated sympathetically. The reader is
not required, or even encouraged, to dis-
like them, or even to disapprove of
them, which is a different thing—the one
being instinctive, the other moral. He is
expected to sympathise with them and
therefore (it is a psychological if not a
logical consequence) to like them.
Indeed, to read some novels is a kind of
exercise in liking the unlikeable and for-
giving the unforgivable.....
“Compassion is all right in its place ;
in its place it is a beneficent and beauti-
ful exercise of the human spirit; but out
of its place it seems to me an insidious
and dangerous way of undermining
moral standards......,
“And what becomes of justice? Is
justice to be drowned in compassion?
Justice is as profound a need of the soul
as compassion is, I should have thought
a profounder need,, which those who
argue in favor of indiscriminate compas-
sion ignore. The most impressive argu-
ment for it is that those who suffer deserve
our compassion, whether their suffering
is their own fault or not. But in the
Book of Job, the locus classicus of
suffering, Job never asks for compas-
sion, he only asks for justice. The hurt
in his mind would not have been healed
by compassion..
“The call for compassion may pro-
ceed from a conviction that justice in its
present form is too hard on human
frailties and ought to be overhauled. It
may be a call for a more enlightened
justice. No one in his senses could
object to that. But I don’t think it is:
I think it is a perversion or an extreme
form of humanism which wcmM do away
with the whole conception of moral
worth, and substitute compassion tor
justice.”
Betting-shops for Queensland
While “Labor” Governments in the
southern States are busying themselves
providing facilities for bigger and badder
lotteries, Queensland’s Gair Government
is paying its tribute to the gambling-craze
by legislation which has as its ultimate
object the legalising of betting-shops. The
bill, introduced and angrily defended
against attacks from all quarters by Trea-
surer Walsh, does not actually authorise
betting-shops. It doesn’t even provide
for a State-wide referendum to test public
feeling on the matter, though that sug-
gestion was made by the Opposition and
turned down by Walsh. Instead, it pro-
vides for the holding of a sectional
referendum in any one of the four elec-
toral zones into which Queensland is
divided for the purpose of securing the
perpetual succession of “Labor” Govern-
ments. It is not likely that any request
for a referendum will come from the met-
ropolitan or south-western zones, which
together muster 570,000 electors, but
applications are anticipated from the
northern (104,000) and western (49,000)
zones. It is these two zones which keep
“Labor” in power; they return 23 mem-
bers and all but three of them are “Labor.”
A petition signed by 10 per cent, of the
electors in a zone is sufficient to secure
a referendum.
Apart from moral objections to betting-
shops—and these are very sound, as
South Australia found out when it intro-
duced the system in the 1930’s and was
glad to abandon it after a few years—
there are two big arguments against the
proposal. Both hinge on the unwisdom of
having different laws for different parts of
the State. It has been argued that if
off-the-course betting is legalised in the
western zone as the result of a referendum
in which fewer than 25,000 votes would be
needed for its establishment, the result
would be s.-p. betting by ’phone all over
Queensland. The other result, even more
certain, would be a lessened respect for
the law, since people in the other electoral
zones could not be expected to regard as
a crime in their own zone something
which was permitted by law on the other
side of the electoral boundary.
One of the weakest arguments put up
by Walsh in support of his bill was that
if country districts were not given “the
amenity of betting” a drift to the city
could be expected. Lack of amenities
may be one of the causes of the drift
to the city, but surely there are other
amenities than betting concerned?
Queensland, potentially the wealthiest
State in the Comonwealth, has made less
progress since the war than others not
so well endowed by nature. Perhaps, the
Betting Shop Bill, as an index to the men-
tality of the men guiding the State’s
destinies, provides part of the explanation.
Mendes-France
France being what it is, and the emotional
and political qualities of the dozen or
so parties which constitute the French
National Assembly being what they are,
Pierre Mendes-France may not be Prime
Minister of France when this appears.
All the same, he now looks like lasting
a lot longer than at first seemed possible.
Most people, including the French,
have lost count of the number of Gov-
ernments which have tried to bring order
and give the nation some hope since
the liberation in 1944. Mendes-France
began his attempt last June, at a
time when things looked black for anyone
attempting the task. He is still there,
and still going strong, after nearly six
months. That in itself is quite an
achievement.
He accepted office on a promise to
end the Indo-China war in a month. He
did it —in his fashion.
After that came the Assembly’s refusal
to allow France to join the European
Defence Community, the consequent end
of E.D.C., the question of German re-
armament, mounting nationalistic revolts
in French North Africa, and the condition
of France itself.
Mendes-France has been jeered at
because, among other things, he has set
out to reduce alcoholism in France, To
the transient observer that is one of the
country’s besetting evils. The peasant
remains mean, unprogressive, obdurate
and, though favored excessively by
taxation laws, is insular and selfish. Too,
there is a vast crop of spivs and similar
no-hopers, bribery is rampant, and Com-
munism rife.
There is a strange undernote in France.
It seems to be compounded of a nostalgia
for the grand days of Napoleon and a
passionate desire for the world’s respect,
coupled with a realisation that France
must do something to gain that respect—
if only someone can show her the way.
That someone may not be Mendes-
France, but it is rather significant that
Britain, at least, is taking him much more
seriously than it did his immediate
predecessors.
Birthday Greetings
The English like their Prime Ministers to
be a thought elderly, and during the last
90 years they have had three who headed
Governments at 80. The lives of the
three link the struggle against Napoleonic
France with the struggles against the
Germany of the Hohenzollerns and
Hitler. Gladstone, who was Palmerston’s
last Chancellor of the Exchequer, and
whose grandson and namesake was
killed in the Kaiser’s war, could remem-
ber Waterloo. Palmerston entered
Parliament in 1807, when Napoleon
was at the height of his power. Churchill
was a Cabinet Minister during nearly the
whole of the First World War, and P.M.,
previously First Lord of the Admiralty,
from May 10, 1940, till July 26, 1945.
It is recorded that Palmerston made
the speech of his life, in successful
defence of a shaky Government, when
he had turned 80, and that the 83-year-
old Gladstone was never more impressive
to friends and foes than when he intro-
duced and defended every line of the
most contentious of all his measures,
Home Rule for Ireland. So each was
tough in the best sense of the word ; but
it is doing them no injustice to say that
Churchill was made of sterner stuff than
either.
Palmerston was a House of Commons
man for 58 years, Gladstone for 65 years.
Neither ever knew what it was to be
rejected by his constituents. Churchill
failed of election in 1899, again in 1908,
again in 1922, again in 1923, again, and
for the last time, in 1924. At Dundee in
1922, standing as Secretary for the
Colonies, he polled fewer than one-fifth
of the votes ; the winner was a Prohi-
bitionist, Scrymgeour. The defeated
Minister called himself a National
Liberal; he had previously been a
Liberal (and a Free Trader). In later
years he stood as an Independent, a
Constitutionalist and a Conservative (and
a Protectionist); and he has been Con-
servative since 1929: in effect, member
and then leader of the party which,
because of his Antwerp and Gallipoli
failures, forced his resignation as First
Lord of the Admiralty in 1915. Even in
his hour of triumph as leader in the
second German war his Government was
wrecked at the polls, the 357 Conserva-
tives who had supported it being reduced
to 197; Labor shot up to 393. The
Churchillites were defeated again in
1950, and in 1951 their majority was a
mere 25. By-elections suggest that they
are gaining ground.
In Palmerston there was something of
a boyish strain ; and so there is in Sir
Winston. When a military cadet in the
naughty ’nineties he was the principal
actor in an episode which would have
delighted old Pam, though it must have
shocked Gladstone, who, of course, was
intimately acquainted with the scape-
grace’s father when the ill-fated Lord
Randolph was Chancellor of the
Exchequer, as the son was to become (for
five years) in 1924. The ’nineties were
the great days of the music-halls, and
most famous of them was the Empire,
chiefly because of its promenade, which
was haunted by youth in search of fun
and by dashing young persons whose
company could be hired by any present-
able male with jingling sovereigns in his
pocket. But Puritanism was still a force
to be reckoned with, and, as the papers
gleefully recorded, the promenade was
invaded night after night by “prudes on
the prowl,” headed by a Mrs. Ormiston
Chant.
On the last of these occasions
Winston was present. Mounting a front
seat, he gave the confused multitude,
prudes and revellers, the benefit of his
first public speech ; and it was a snorter.
What, he asked, did Mrs. Ormiston Chant
and her bands of killjoys think they were
doing? How dared they interfere with
the simple pleasures of tired and lonely
Empire-builders and their charming com-
panions? “Tired and lonely Empire-
builders,” he repeated ; and in what other
London haunt, be it tabernacle or mis-
sion-hall, could they be sure of finding
themselves in such delightful society?
Who were ever faithful, ever true? Hie
ladies of the Empire promenade! Ring-
ing cheers from all parts of the hall, and
exit Mrs. Ormiston Chant. She herself
{Continued on next page)


was so attractive that more than one
tired and lonely Empire-builder had
made a pass at her.
Of Palmerston it was written (by
Justin McCarthy) that “he had a kindly
heart, which won all people who came
near him. He had no enduring enmities
or capricious dislikes. His manners were
frank and genial. He was absolutely free
from affectation. When the combat was
over he was ready to sit down by his
antagonist’s side and be his friend.” All
this could be said of Churchill; and
more. A lesser man would have shown
bitterness when hurled from his eminence
in 1945, but not an angry word escaped
him, and the victorious Attlee spoke of
their association in the war years with
real affection. He has been a devoted
family man: a good son, husband and
father. No ageing wife ever received a
more charming compliment than the line
he penned in closing a book of reminis-
cences, when his political career seemed
to have closed: “And then I married, and
lived happily ever after.”
His one enemy in Britain seems to be
Aneurin Bevan, who denounced him as
a “swashbuckler.” To Bernard Shaw,
who liked and admired him, he was a
“romantic militarist.” To Anthony
Eden he is “the greatest man in the
world.” Some survivors of Gallipoli or
of the campaigns in Greece, Crete or
Syria would no doubt disagree.
But Churchill was not wholly respons-
ible for Gallipoli, or for the armed
intervention against the Bolsheviks which
consolidated their revolution, as Ameri-
can support for Chiang Kai-shek con-
solidated the revolution in China. But
he has had to accept expedient after
expedient which he condemned with all
his eloquence when proposed by the
other side; from the enfranchisement of
women to the abandonment of the Suez
Canal Zone. “We scuttle from Egypt,”
he thundered in 1946 —“we scuttle from
it; we should inform Egypt that we
stand by our treaty rights and will, by
all means, maintain our position.” Who
is doing the scuttling now? And events
have cruelly falsified his predictions of
the peaceful Europe, its boundaries
amicably arranged, that would ensue
from his meeting with Stalin and Roose-
velt in 1945.
All the same, Churchill will be
remembered this week as the man who,
in dark days for England, rose to heroic
stature and uttered heroic sentences. “I
have nothing to offer but blood, toil,
tears and sweat.” “We shall not flag or
fail; we shall go on to the end. We
shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight
on the landing-grounds, we shall fight in
the fields and in the streets, we shall fight
in the hills ; we shall never surrender.”
“Never in the field of conflict was so
much owed by so many to so few.” Not
the greatest man in the world or the
greatest of Prime Ministers, but a grand
Englishman indeed.
POLITICAL POINTS
Three-score years and twenty —
Churchill marches on.
• •
Yesterday Menzies broke the Australian
record for length of time as Prime Minis-
ter —seven years, fifteen weeks —estab-
lished by W. M. Hughes. Bob’s term in
office is in two bites, with eight years in
between ; Billy’s reign was uninterrupted,
though not exactly without storms.
• •
First move towards redrawing the
boundaries of Federal electorates on the
basis of the 1954-census figures may be
expected soon. A commission will be
appointed in each State before Christmas,
and the final plans will probably be pro-
duced by the middle of next year.
• •
Cahill says his Government does not
wish to be known as the drink-and-
gambling Government. Well, what is he
going to do about it? Change its name
by deed-poll?
• •
There’s an agitation in Victoria for
later-closing hours for hotels, inspired,
of course, by the N. S. Wales referendum
and its sequel. Cain’s reply is that his
Government has no intention of altering
hours or of holding a referendum “at
this stage.” But the matter isn’t likely
to rest there.
• •
When Playford’s Electoral Bill reached
the committee-stage in the S.A. Assembly
the “Labor” Opposition tried to amend
it to increase the number of members
from 39 to 45, adding one more country
seat and five metropolitan seats. Oppo-
sition-leader O’Halloran claimed this
would restore the relative values of the
city- and country-vote to approximately
the same basis as in 1936. Playford
rejected the amendment on the ground
that neither party at the last election had
advocated an increase in the size of
Parliament.
• o
In Westralia Premier Hawke has intro-
duced a bill to increase the numbers of
the Assembly from 50 to 52. The present
basis is city, 20; country, including gold-
fields, 27; nor’-west areas, 3. Hawke’s
proposals would alter this to city, 23 ;
agricultural and central mining areas, 23 ;
pastoral districts, 3 ; outer mining areas,
3. The last group is likely to cause the
most argument, particularly when the bill
reaches the Council.
• •
State Transport Ministers, according
to the N.S.W. one, propose to issue
“licences or permits” to inter-State
hauliers which they “believe will be
valid.” But a refusal to issue a licence
or permit is restriction of inter-State
trade, or will be claimed as such by
interested parties. Then it will be on
again.
• • .
United Nations estimates a world
population of 4000 million by 1980. The
trams’ll never carry ’em!
• •
Supporting the new Commonwealth
Loan, Premier Cahill said that, with the
population increasing rapidly, it was
essential that capital-works should not be
retarded by shortage of money. If he
means State works it isn’t shortage of
money that retards them.
• •
Although the official Kremlin policy
nowadays is “peaceful co-existence,”
J. F. Erroll, a Conservative member of
the House of Commons, back from a
trip to Russia, says that Malenkov
prophesied to him and other M.P.s a
world revolution and the establishment
of a world Communist State. Georgi
said this would not necessarily be
brought about through war, but by a
battle of ideas. “Peaceful co-existence”
is presumably merely a temporary idea.
• •
On Thursday an election to replace
one-quarter of the members of the N. S.
Wales Legislative Council resulted in the
return of all retiring members who
sought re-election —nine “Labor,” one
Liberal and one Country party —and four
new members —two Liberal and two
Country-party. Voting was on a propor-
tional-representation basis, with all mem-
bers of both Houses eligible to vote.
Party-strengths in the Council are now
“Labor,” 35 ; Opposition, 25.
• •
Death of Joe Gander leaves only
Eddie Ward and Rowley James of the
original Lang Labor group of the early
1930’5. The Big Fella himself is still
going strong, but he didn’t go to
Canberra until 1946, by which time his
former henchmen were back in the
official “Labor” fold.
• •
The misnamed Temperance Alliance
has for years held out to politicians of
all parties the threat “If you don’t sup-
port six-o’clock closing we won’t vote for
you,” and The Bulletin has long main-
tained that both Government and
Opposition parties have paid too much
attention to the threat. The number of
voters who would change their political
allegiance purely on the drink question is
EIGHTY, NOT OUT!
probably small, and, in. any case, the
50-50 vote at the referendum suggests
that what a party might lose through the
non-drinkers who swung it would gain
from the drinkers who turned round-
about.
This is reflected in two comments on
Cahill’s liquor amendments. F. L.
Edmunds, of the Temperance Alliance,
said;
The Government has gone a great deal
further than the majority for 10 p.m. in
the referendum justifies, and it may well
meet violent opposition for this at the
next election.
On the same day R. Sheargold, spokes-
man for the licensed grocers, declared
that
The Labor Government has committed
political suicide by refusing to amend the
Liquor Act to provide for single-bottle
liquor-licences.
Cahill and Co. may well be defeated at
the next election, but it won’t be their
liquor-laws that will bring it about.
• •
For more than an hour a mysterious
object was reported to have swooped
above Melbourne’s southern suburbs one
evening last week, making whistling or
whining noises as it circled around.
Probably Premier Cain rehearsing his
speech for the next Loan Council
meeting.
On Thursday and Friday the annual
convention of the New England New
State Movement will meet at Inverell;
more than 250 delegates from 30 shires
and municipalities will attend, including
representatives of Newcastle City Council,
which will be represented for the first
time.
• •
Fadden had disconcerting news for
men on the land when he got back from
America last week. He told an alarming
story of piled-up surpluses of U.S. wheat
and dairy-produce, accumulated with the
aid of subsidies from U.S. taxpayers,
which may soon flood the world-markets
at bargain-basement prices. The wheat
carryover was nearly 1000 million
bushels, and dairy products totalled 1000
million pounds. He said Australia was
already finding difficulty in getting
reasonable prices for some products.
Now the problem had to be faced of
competition against subsidised American
products. The outlook didn’t seem a
bright one for the Treasurer, or anyone
else in Australia.
• •
“In the ACT”: When the G.-G., Sir
William Slim, opened Industry House in
Canberra last week he praised the extent
and efficiency of industrialisation in
Australia, but gave a useful warning to
the listening members of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures. He
remarked
Going around this country, particularly
as an amateur, it sometimes strikes me that
the very richness of your material and
climatic advantages may sometimes almost
unconsciously tend to lessen the pressure
to adopt and devise new methods.
At the same gathering Prime Minister
Menzies warned that tariffs were not a
complete answer to problems, and that
manufacturers should not regard them-
selves as beneficiaries of government.
“Power is very bad for people like me
and for the Government, and nothing is
worse for the community than to be
dependent upon the Government,” he
said. He added that manufacturers, by
frequent contact with the Government,
should talk not about tariffs but about
mutual problems of developing and
strengthening the economy.
• •
Churchill admits that in 1945 he
instructed Monty to stockpile captured
German arms in case it became necessary
to use them to defend Europe against the
Soviet. Almost everything Russia has
done in Europe since then has shown it
was a wise decision, yet the Old Man
is being assailed for making the admis-
sion. The criticism lacks commonsense.
Moscow is not likely to lose any sleep
over what Churchill did in 1945 ; it was
probably known to the Red leaders any-
way. What does worry Malenkov and
Co. is the 1954 decision to rearm Ger-
many, and that is approved by every
country in Western Europe.
• •
A Sydney “Herald” correspondent
says a woman ought to be appointed to
Australia House to “advise migrants on
living conditions in Australia.” It’s a
good idea'—provided she doesn’t become
just another hander-outer of absurd
pamphlets.
• •
The title of the annual trade-union
holiday in N.S.W. (first Monday in
October) has been changed from Six-
hour Day to Labor Day. Well, it would
have looked a bit silly to change it to
Four-hour Day, the obvious objective of
some unions.
• •
Well, at last we’ve spoken up in world
diplomacy. Spender told the United
Nations political committee that Aus-
tralia unalterably opposes Indonesian
claims to West New Guinea. It’ll prob-
ably get us disliked by the Chowder Bay
Branch of the Movement for People’s
Peace Republics and sundry writing
gentlemen and ladies, but we’ll just have
to put up with that.
• •
W. H. Anderson, Federal president of
the Liberal party, told his conference
that “Labor” today is bewildered and
divided and exists on its old faiths. True
enough, but the Libs mustn’t rely too
much on that aspect of their political
opposition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
CRICKET - WRITERS and -com-
mentators have come in again like
the cicadas, which they so much
resemble (was there not a Neville
Cicardus?), and no doubt the 1954-55
Tests will discover another great talker
for the gallery of cricketing fame. But
my admiration and respect will always be
for C. B. Fry, to whom I was sent, a
scrubby radio - journalist, to “get an
interview.” He met me in the hallway
of Usher’s, in Sydney, monocled and
august in flowing English tailoring, led
me up to the lounge, sat me down to a
sherry, and asked what I wanted to know.
When I told him, he was apologetic. He
was contracted, he explained, to write
for two big English papers and none
other. “But,” he said, “you could say
that if C. B. Fry were asked what the
prospects of the Tests might be, he might
say” Here he waved to my notebook,
and my interview - by - divination
proceeded.—“Nunk.”
♦♦♦ *x* ❖
“Melbn”; Melbourne has become the
Australian Athens. With 800 Asian
students, 250 of them at the University,
Victoria has more Orientals seeking
knowledge than have all the other States
put together.
*X* *X* ❖
“Nakhoda”: I sent my Borneo boy—
a very intelligent Kadayan —to the
residency to help at an afternoon-tea
party to a visiting archbishop. He came
back with a grin on his face like a
Cheshire cat. He knew only the local
pidgin for “archbishop”—number one
“He just mumbled ‘She ain't gonna lift' —and bailed out!"
topside joss pidgin man —but what had
impressed him was his Grace’s gaiters.
He explained that the visitor wore tight
black stockings with little buttons up the
sides; they were bunyah jahat, he said —
very naughty. The Malay male wears
skirts; and here was his Grace handing
tea round to the ladies in a costume the
native had seen only on the local screen
on girls in the Folies.
*** ♦> ►>
“Simon”: Grafton (N.S.W.) “Daily
Examiner” mentions that Hugh Scarlett,
Sergeant-at-Arms of the State Parliament,
and Eric Shaw, the Usher of the Black
Rod in the Upper House at the same
address, were not only previously
Grafton ians but had lived in the same
street: truly “an extraordinary
coincidence,” in the “D.E.’s” striking
phrase.
♦> ❖ *
“Zso”: Here’s a notice seen in a
suburban pub:
The Management Reserves
the Right to Exclude any
Ladies that it Thinks Proper.
* * *
“Clunesman”: “Mugga Way’s” note
about the absence of Australia in the
prize-list at a brewers’ exhibition in
London (B. 10/11/’54) reminds me that
many years ago Sydney Royal had a
special section for beer and tobacco.
The brew must have proved too potent
for the judges at one Show, as contempor-
ary reports say: “Reason was dethroned,
and folly and madness reigned in its
stead.”
*> ***
“Hugh Galleon”: Middle-aged,
smartly dressed, he approached the classi-
fied-ad. counter and handed over a Miss-
ing Friends advertisement offering to
share his “modern home” with a “ref.
widow, 35-45.” Tactfully it was explained
to him that the advertisement, as it read,
could not be accepted, but that he could
alter it to a request for a housekeeper
with the same qualifications. A horrified
look passed over his face. “Oh,” he said,
“but I don’t want her to do any work.”
❖ *
“Wigan”: The N. S. Wales liquor
referendum reminds me. During the
illustrious advance on Benghazi the Aus-
tralian contingent’s progress was well
ahead of schedule. In the sweltering
heat of the afternoon the Diggers
displayed a fighting - spirit far more
enthusiastic than the occasion really
demanded. The British cojnmander sent
a message to inquire the reason for the
keenness of the Commonwealth boys.
Messenger returned to announce: “Sir,
there is a rumor that licensing hours
r this part of the country are the same
as those in some Australian States, and
the men are desirous to be in Benghazi
before closing-time.”
♦l* ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Hat-pins (B. 17/11/’54)
had become so long and vicious forty
years ago that in Perth a by-law was
enacted (and enforced) obliging women
wearing them to affix acorn-like pro-
tectors on the points while travelling in
public vehicles. That was the period of
the cartwheel-hat; on the platform at
Perth Central I actually saw a woman
withdraw three or four potential fish-
spears from the crown of her yard-or-so-
wide confection, pass the travesty of a
garbage-tin lid edgewise through the
door of a suburban train, enter the com-
partment herself and, aided by the
carriage mirror, put it on again.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Judas”: Sydney papers cernly was
allfired keen on this critter Hahpalong,
even writin’ leaden-articles in his lingo in
aid of what he done for the kids; but a
lamed fraud of mahn, fonda music, says
“Whut about the lil ol’ school-teacher
who had mah kid cornin’ home askin’ me
to git a record of a Mozart aria? Yew
know,” he says—“marbles, surfin’,
breakin’ winders, ridin’ other kids’ bikes;
couldn’ git him near a classical recud
mahself. Who does most fer that there
kid? Who performs the doggonest
miracle? Never see no leaden-articles
praisin’ the lil ol’ school-teacher in no
lingo atall.”
* * ❖
“Kelms”: A Perth girl-cyclist who was
knocked down by a car sustained a
broken collarbone and abrasions, and has
been awarded £1750 general damages.
The broken bone and the abrasions were
not so bad: her worst injuries followed
on the accident, when she was lying
“Poor little thing has been looking so off-color lately. ”
unconscious on the road. The hot
bitumen burnt her so badly that she was
unconscious for six days and had to have
skin-graft operations.
* ❖ ❖
“Viper”: The U.S. plans to build a
new moon. Moon II will be rocketed
piece by piece to its orbit and assembled
by radio-control. Will there be a launch-
ing ceremony for the main bits? Moon-
launching would be a nice change for
some dowager, fed-up with bashing
bottles of bubbly on liners’ bows. But
how will lovers react to this dubious
chromium-plated radiance? And will the
U.S. go on to mechanise all other appur-
tenances of love —long-playing nightin-
gales, mechanical skylarks, Cupid with
an atomic bazooka?
* *X* *>
“Bo”: Yielding to honeyed praises of
my sartorial judgment and the impor-
tunities of my womenfolk, I ventured
into the dress-material department of a
city store. With that firm, quick decision
which marks our sex I made my selection
and breasted the counter. Three sales-
men dashed towards me, and it was not
till I observed the downcast dials of the
losers that I became aware of the milling
herd of stili-unde-
cid e d women-
shoppers. As the
win ner snipped
lengths off the
rolls I had indi-
cat e d he ex-
pressed thank-
fulness that men
knew what they
wanted. While he
folded the
material slowly
before making
out the docket —
I suspected he
regarded me as
a tempo rary,
longed - for
sane tuary a
woman - shopper,
with that easy
informality they
have, fingered the material. “Will it wash
well?” she asked. The salesman looked
up, struggling to master his features.
“It’s a cotton, madam; it should,” he
replied. She moved off. He cast his eyes
upward in silent supplication for strength.
“Will it wash!” he gritted, sotto voce.
“A woman came in and went lousy
because the color ran into the boy’s
shirt when she boiled it. I ask you!
Some of em’d boil up coir-mats and
silk frocks and a bloke’s dress-strides
all in together. Wimrnen!” The
harassed face of that misogynist haunts
me still.
“Hallcraft”; We took on a few
“seasonal employees” for the school-
department. One was asked for a copy
of Kay and Laby’s Mathematical Tables
(a standard work). She looked in vain
until a more seasoned hand came along
and asked her what she was looking for.
She said, “The customer wants a copy of
Cain and Abel’s Alphabetical Cables.
*** *x* ❖
“J. 8.”; What would be the smallest
church in Australia? Possibly St.
Nicholas’s Church of England, Australmd,
site of the unsuccessful settlement by the
WA. Land Co. in 1841. At one time
a Congregational church, the tiny jarrah
building was built and used for a store.
Rather like a square meatsafe, and still
containing some of the original hand-
made nails and a pioneer-Bible, the
building is still in use. It holds 27 when
jam-packed.
❖ <*
“Metralia”: In discerning a need for
more words meaning “politician” (B.
17/ 11/’54) “K.R.” shows acute observa-
tion. A slander of politicians is a
suggested collective; also baby-kissers
and radio-hogs.
There are several facetious
variants of “politician,” such as “vote-
catcher,” “wire-puller,” “windbag” and
“contortionist.” Also “legislator” and
“statesman.”
* *
“Balwyn”: The demise of the Bendigo
(Vic.) goldfields has happened, ironically,
in the Eureka centenary-year. With the
closing of Central Deborah and
North Deborah mines, the city’s
production of gold, almost uninter-
rupted since 1851, has ended. In
that time the yield totalled £100,000,000
or more. The deepest shaft (Victoria
Quartz Mine) went down 4593 ft, but
large nuggets have been found a few
inches below the surface. Bendigo’s
population in the ’fifties soared to
60,000, with the inevitable Chinese
camps, grog-huts and gambling - dens
thrown in.
“Narumee”: 1854 seems to have been
quite a year. It’s a hundred years since
the first railways snaked their way across
India, Brazil and Victoria; since the
outbreak of the Crimean War; since the
Crystal Palace was opened; since the
invention of the electric-light bulb by
one Herr Goebbel, the incorporation of
Nebraska into the United States, the
publication of Dickens’s Hard Times and
Thackeray’s The Rose and the Ring, to
say nothing of Melbourne “Age.” The
Alma Mater of learned womanhood,
Cheltenham College, was founded in 1854.
But for the farmers all these events have
little significance beside the centenary
now being solemnly recalled in
Yorkshire —that of the breeding of the
first Airedale heifer, whose progeny were
among the several north-country breeds
which finally produced the Shorthorn.
The horns and poll of this venerable and
venerated animal are still preserved, and
her portrait adorns many inn-signs
around Keighley; she is said to have
measured lift. Win. from nose to tail,
and to have weighed 41st, 121 b. it is
unlikely that she would have figured in
the Grand Parade at the Royal Melbourne
Show, but for those days she must have
been a Venus of bovinity!.
THE OLD MASTER
Fate struck him lucky ; he could easily
stand,
A mute Canute, unshaven, while the
roll
On roll of laughter broke upon his land,
As though it were not well in his
control.
But maledictions as the race-crowds
break-up
And mutterings of disillusioned wives
Were his materials; he was a wake-up
To what goes on beneath the people’s
lives:
There, in the darkened cavern of the
heart.
The imperfections of the human story
Were by the laughing furnace of his art
Fused in a glitter of sardonic glory :
Too tongue-tied to the words he made
and spoke
To trade upon the international stream,
He was the coiner of our secret joke
On the reverse of the Australian dream.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


MORE than ever Shakspeare could
say that the world is deceived by
ornament. Showy packs often cost more
than their contents. The retailer has to
get his profit on get-up that is completely
useless. The purchaser is unable to get
a fair look at the goods as he once
could, and at least minor defects can be
more easily hidden. Mercers tell me
that fixtures are not now made to take
the former boxes of dozens. This waste
of space and material goes on and on
with many things besides men’s belts
and pocket-handkerchief. —“Simon,”
"No, I Wasn't signalling for help. I'm just doing my daily dozen."
“Yakipan”: An annual Hydrangea
Festival is to be held in Launceston;
in 1955 it will be from February 26 to
March 5. It will have a gala opening,
with possibly an aquatic floral display,
on Henley Regatta Day; displays of
hydrangeas and other flowers in
Launceston’s parks and gardens ; 1 a
Hydrangea Ball; a parade of decorated
floats and vehicles through the city; and
a battle-of-flowers in Brisbane-street on
the closing night. Special church-
services will be held on the Sunday of
festival-week; and there will be day-
tours in and around Launceston.
❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: The A.B.C. has just com-
pleted its raost successful subscription-
concert season. Attendances in Mel-
bourne have been amazing. But has
musical appreciation appreciated? In
the Town Hall foyer, in the interval after
a fiddler from overseas had finished his
piece, I heard a young music-lover say
to his girl-friend: “That violin is 150
years old.” “Isn’t it time he got a new
one?” said the girl-friend,
j* ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Argument whether the Gothic
structure, Wilson Hall, at the University
of Melbourne, bumt-out last year, should
be restored or replaced has concluded
with the approval of plans which, judging
by the model, will make the new Wilson
Hall look like a butterbox with one
blank side and one glass side.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Burn”: Interesting that the villain in
E. O. Schlunke’s Feather Your Nest used
Dale Carnegie’s best-seller as inspiration
and guide. A close analysis of this go-
getters’ bible shows that it preaches in
many parts almost the antithesis of
Christian living ; it might have been better
titled How to Make Friends and Influence
People to Your Personal (Financial)
Advantage. Reminds me of Norma,
conservative, independent and
self-centred, who lived her own life and
kept Len, her rather mouselike husband,
well and truly in his place. Pa-in-law
had a bout of illness and, seeing his busi-
ness going to pot, started worrying ; not
helpful to recovery. So Norma sent him
a book —and now the family knows why
Len grows more mouselike and Norma
more serene with the passing years. Yes,
a very cunning gent., Mr. Carnegie. He
should have called his other book How
to Start Living and Let Other People Do
Your Worrying.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Miilum”: In the argument whether
Inverell (N.S.W.) will have its swimming-
baths (B. 17 /11 / ’54), my money is on
those who want them built. Already
sufficient metal for all the concrete work
has been crushed by voluntary labor,
and when men want something badly
enough to do hard work to get it they
will not let bits of paper like petitions
stop them.
❖ *X* ***
“Craiser”; Other times, other manners.
The Victorian Health Commission
received a request to permit smoking in
the Exhibition Building. The request
was refused, but not because it came
from the annual conference of the
Country Women’s Association. The
building is the city’s worst fire-risk,
❖ ❖ ❖
“5 G.R.”: That first Armistice Day (B.
27/10/’54). We were in Peshawar, India,
when the news came through in the late
evening, chota-peg time. Many put down
their glasses and thought back to Anzac,
to France, to Mespot. Young bucks
with no war service in the field went
mad. The cavalry galloped down the
Mall with a four-in-hand, hitched on the
Afghan gun at the club entrance,
galloped to the fort, tipped the debris out
of the muzzle-loader, chucked in a topee-
full of gunpowder, rammed down a beer-
bottle and touched-off the charge,, right
up the Mall. It wasn’t funny—to me and
some others. I went to the Gurkha
officers’ lines later. Over a warm rum-
and-lemonade the tiny Subedar major
said. “The end of the war to end war;
my two sons.” He reflected a moment.
“I think I need a drink,” he said.
Within a year we were at war again, with
Afghanistan,
“0.F.”; “My wife says,” said the
uxurious backwoodsman, stirring his
morning tea, “that whenever an arcade-
shop in Sydney went vacant it used to be
“His Grace the nineteenth Earl of Millington!"
filled up with lingerie, but nowadays
when a lingerie-shop falls vacant it
becomes a butchery.” The romantic
poet was hurt: “You could hardly set
your popsy up in a butchery,” he said.
“No,” said the radio-thriller writer;
“but what a marvellous place to dispose
of one! ”
TALKING-CLOCKS
I STILL think a baby can tell the time
better than anyone. On account of
this gift my wife and I have used a series
of them as alarm-clocks when we have
had to get up at 6 a.m. for any special
early start. We found a baby might ring
a bit early sometimes, but it would never
go off late.
An alarm-clock can be silenced by a
thump over the head and you are off to
sleep again in no time, but a baby will
not stop making its noise until you give
it a bottle, an awakening process for you.
Our reveille is a far cry indeed from
what they have installed at Sydney
G.P.O. Officials there let a
group see their new talking-
clock (same basic principle as a
baby), but theirs, they said,
was accurate to within one-
hundredth part of a second, and
theirs is twins.
The G.P.O.’s talking-clock is in a
room on the third floor of their new
building, off Pitt-street. It looks like a
lot of tall, grey-enamelled cupboards,
with here and there a row of glowing
valves, heavy with switches, dials and
colored lights.
Near the cupboards is a glassed-in
table on which a thing like a lathe spins
three glass disks. Its exact counterpart
stands near by, waiting to take over auto-
matically when something goes wrong.
SOMEBODY asked an official how it
worked. The official was full of
talk afcout megacycles, frequency-dividers
and quartz-crystal. Fond of the quartz-
crystal, he was. As he talked, and took
some with him into the field of elec-
tronics, and left others stuck to a
magnetic field along the way, I opened a
pamphlet prepared by the G.P.O. for, it
seemed, just such an occasion as this.
I found that all I would have to do to
get in touch with the talking-clock would
be to phone 8074 and I would hear “a
clear, peasant man’s voice” telling me the
time every 10 seconds, day or night, I
wondered why the G.P.O. had picked a
man’s yoice. Surely that was sticking
out their neck. The answer was on page
3 of the pamphlet:
Before the introduction of the British
Post Office speaking-clock the British Post
Office conducted a search for the “Girl
with the Golden Voice” from among 15,000
telephonists. A Miss Jane Cain was chosen
as a result of this competition to make
recordings. Despite the great care taken
to choose a suitable voice, there have been
from time to time in Britain some mis-
understandings of the time announced.
The G.P.0., in its pamphlet,® donned
kid-gloves before going on;
Asa result of this and further experi-
ences it was considered that a man’s voice
would provide greater intelligibility when
the announcements are made over a tele-
phone-system with its somewhat restricted
frequency-response.
The three revolving disks, I read, each
contained snatches of a complete time-
announcement. One disk carried all the
minute-announcements, the next the hour-
announcements and common phrases,
and the third the second-announcements
and the three pips, the last of which gave
the exact time.
It meant that when the announcement
said “At the third stroke it will be ten,
twenty-three and thirty seconds” one
would hear a complete sentence dubbed
together from three different sources!
This was easier on the announcer and let
him out of having to make 4320
announcements at 10-second intervals,
which would make up the clock’s neces-
sary 12-hour spread. Theoretically, he
would have to say only once “At the
third stroke it will be . . .,” and to count
up from one to twelve for the hours, and
to 59 for the minutes, and so on.
“Precisely,” was his term for the exact
minute, and he delivered the line well.
THE official, who was explaining
the clock, had run down, so I asked
him who the announcer was. It was
then a sort of top-secret: it has now
come out that he is Gordon Gow,
working with the B.B.C. The official told
me it had taken the announcer four
sessions of about half an hour each to
make the tape-recordings from which
the disks had been compiled.
Well, what would a clock like this
cost? “I know,” said the official. “But
I can’t tell you.”
Back in the pamphlet I found that
some American cities favored talking-
clocks of a different principle, with short
“commercials” sandwiched in between
the time-announcements. That quartz-
crystal, I found, somehow drove the
clock’s motor electronically at a constant
speed. Blackout troubles could not affect
the clock, because the spare, which came
in automatically if anything went wrong
with the other, was worked from
batteries.
One-hundred phone-callers would be
able to hear the clock at once, and to
make way for others they would be auto-
matically cut off if they did not hang up
after one-and-a-half minutes.
A little later I set my time by the talk-
ing-clock’s master-dial and departed. I
reached home at 6 p.m., .precisely, and
there was the youngest, wailing for food,
dead on time.
Niloc.
THE EYES HAVE IT
‘‘Federal Social Services Minister McMahon
told the Australian Optometrical Association:
‘Hom-rixnmed glasses can create the impression
of great mental reserves and strength. When I
look at some members of Parliament without
their glasses I don’t think they have a very
great intellectual capacity.’ ”
Behold the tycoon with the hawklike phiz.
Discussing biz.
Observe the sword-points of his eyes,
the play
Of eyebrows pliant.
You would adjudge, then, by these signs,
that he
Must surely be
Eager to enter any fiscal fray,
A mental giant.
Don't think his lamps require the
specious aids
Of barricades
Simply to bolster gifts that one can
see
Are so abundant.
He can afford to sport, with look so
shrewd,
A dial that’s nude ;
Horn-rimmed eye-furniture on him
would be
Oh, quite redundant.
I heard of one male citizen of late
Who, to create
Th' 'impression that he is (as are so
few)
A cultured fellow,
Lugs round with him a large Shakspearian
tome.
And yet his dome
Is such that he has not the faintest clue
Who wrote “Othello” !
But easier far than that to kid the mob
You have a nob
Packed with high-quality grey-matter;
thus
The politician.
Though he may read a phone-book with
great ease,
Hits on a wheeze :
Plain glass in horn-rimmed specs.
Intellect plus,
The supposition!
Behold, now, 'Any ’Ornihand, M.P.!
You know that he
Hasn’t the nous to get out of the wet.
Yet the conclusion.
Seeing him horn-rimmed, may he that
his brain
One can’t disdain.
Well, frankly, that would be an
optomet-
Rical illusion.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Louis Francis Loder, Doctor of
Engineering, lands this year's Peter Nicol
Russell Memorial Medal, highest award
of the Institution of Engineers. One of
the rea|ons for Loder’s selection was his
introduction of low-cost construction-
methods for highways. He got his
experience under Calder, for whom
Victoria created a memorial —the Aus-
tralian-tree-lined Calder Highway from
Melbourne to Geelong. Loder joined
the Victorian Country Roads Board
in 1923, was appointed highways
engineer after the declaration of the
first State highway; became chief-
engineer on the death of his chief and
started to cut down costs by using local
materials and the “road-mix seal,” which
has given Victoria one of the most com-
prehensive networks of good roads in
Australia. He became chairman of the
C. in 1940. Born at Sale (Vic.),
educated at Wesley, he served in the
R.A.A.F. in War I, got a “mention,”
and for the latter part of War II was
Director-General of Allied Works. Now
D. of Works for the Commonwealth,
and, in 1947, president of the institution
which gave him his latest medal.
• •
Paying-off from his piscatorial pursuits,
Harold Thompson, founder and for 17
years chief of the Division of Fisheries
of C.5.1.R.0. Haddock, salmon and cod
have been his special studies —he
pursued them round Scotland (10 years
senior biologist of the Fishery Board),
and to Newfoundland (director of the
Dominion Fishery Laboratory, five
years). Latterly based at the marine-
biology lab. at Cronulla, out of Sydney,
he is D.Sc. of Aberdeen University, and
was an Army captain in War I. Will
pursue golf-balls now.
• •
Dropped in to 252 George-street on
the final leg of a world-tour, Les Longson,
as well-known on Westralian trotting-
tracks as the judge’s-box. Up to eight
years back (when he went out to grass)
he had for 20 years managed totalisalors
on pretty well all the courses in Perth,
and his firm is still official printer to the
Trotting Association over there. High-
light of 26 years in printing was his
production of the official Queen and
Duke of Edinburgh programme for the
W.A.T.S.’s meeting at Perth’s Gloucester
Park. Old Digger corp. of the 51st
Battalion in France, he was on his way
home in the Barunga in 1918 when a
U-boat’s torpedo connected in the Bay
of Biscay, 24 hours out from Devonport.
Corp. Longson swam to an escorting
destroyer, and was back in Devonport
in a bit over eight hours. The visitor
really called for news of his uncle, Frank
Longson, old-time Bulletin contributor.
Unk Frank was, apparently, a character
in Perth —used to keep monkeys, which
he’d sool on to the Town Hall pigeons*.
Not over-disciplined, those simian pals ;
they’d dice the pigeons for the Town
Hall clock, on whose hands they rode
many a playful hour away. Les had an
eye-operation in Harley-street, the better
to see England, France, Belgium, Switzer-
land, Italy, Panama and New Zealand.
• •
Pietro Annigoni, the Italian artist who
is painting Queen Elizabeth alternatively
with William Dargie, has a specimen of
his work in Melbourne. It hangs in the
surgery of Dr. Paul Kinston, a Collins-
street dentist, who had it presented to
him by the artist.
• •
Forty-three years’ experience in insur-
ance already lie behind Keith Bentzen,
newly elected president of the Council
of Fire and Accident Underwriters of
the Commonwealth. Born at Gulgong
(N.S.W.) in 1896, Bentzen served with
the old Ist Battalion on Gallipoli.
He began in insurance with the London
and Lancashire Co., and transferred to
Western Assurance in 1922, later open-
ing their first South Australian branch.
He returned to N.S.W. as manager for
Australia of the Western in 1946, and
was chairman of the Sydney section of
the Underwriters’ Council in 1953-54.
In South Australia he was active in civic
affairs, and was executive-committee
member of the S.A. Home for Incur-
ables; he was also president of Adelaide
Legacy in 1932-33. Probably his most
exacting job of public service was that
of Controller for S.A. and Northern
Territory of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s War Damage Insurance Com-
mission in 1941-45. He did that in his
“spare time.”
Bouquet from a trouble-spot has been
thrown at Major-General R. H. Nimmo,
head of the U.N. military observer-
group in Kashmir. Nimmo, who retired
from the C.M.F. in 1950 after concluding
a distinguished career, winding-up with
four years as G.0.C., Northern Command,
has been granted the honorary rank of
lieut.-general while he holds his present
U.N. appointment. Defence Minister
Mcßride has been told that Nimmo is
held in highest esteem by the U.N.
Secretary - General and senior officials,
and that he has shown outstanding ability
both in military and administrative
matters and in diplomatic work.
• •
Air-Commodore William Hart Kyle,
billed for the post of Air-Officer-Com-
manding, Malaya, has been Director of
Operational Requirements for the R.A.F.
over the past couple of years. From
Kalgoorlie originally, he went straight to
the R.A.F. college at Cranwell (Eng.)
from Guildford Grammar in Perth. After
that he went to Ijmuiden—leading 139
Bomber Squadron, his target the great
iron-and-steel works. D.F.C. for that
raid, after which he was given command
of the bomber-station where the first
daylight-raiding Mosquito squadron was
formed. He added D.S.O. in 1945, was
A.D.C. to the King in 1949, and is now
A.D.C. to the Queen. Forty-four; he
becomes Air-Vice-Marshal for the
Malaya posting.
• •
“Uramao”; Many glad hands have
been extended to John Farrell, on
notching his 80th milestone. New
Zealand’s representative for J. C.
Williamson for donkey’s years, Farrell
is the oldest member of the Firm. There
are few towns in the Dominion where
he has not billposted and supervised
arrangements for the Firm’s shows.
• •
It’s hard to know what it was. Possibly
it was the way he said “You little
trimmah” or “You little beautay.” Or
his shrill spluttering rages: “I’ll drop
him! I’ll drop him! I’ll drop him! ” Or
the leer that went with “I’m bithy now,
deah, but meet me down the back of the
fowlyard in half an hour.” Or the “Fair
go, mob,” to the audiences who drowned
him with applause before he’d even
started his act; or “I’m awake-up to
you," or, of course, “Thtrike me lucky! ”
It could have been that “trimmah”
and “beautay” and “deah” —they were
part of the devastating method by which,
with a word or gesture, he could rip
most human affectations apart. It could
THE OLD MASTER
also have been that “fowlyard”—the
quick, familiar thing that makes humor
suddenly human, as the works of Lennie
Lower, George Wallace and Emile
Mercier demonstrate so well.
Whatever it was, Mo’s audiences loved
him for it and called him the Old Master,
which he was —a master of the great,
rich art of vaudeville and all its cleansing
vulgarity. Most of his acts were classics
of their kind, and sometimes they weren’t
acts —sometimes he made it so good that
the cast on stage had to laugh, too, and
then the Old Master would give it away
and laugh with the rest of them. They
were good moments.
He leaves a wife (Sadie Gale) and
two children —and only a very rare
survival or so to remind one of the extra-
ordinarily high standard of Australian
vaudeville before the microphone and
filing-cabinet of wisecracks took over.
“Cauboy”: When Jim Gerald was
appointed to a War II Army entertain-
ment unit with rank of colonel, somebody
in the department rang-up his old
colleague Mo at the Tivoli in Melbourne
and asked him if he would like to join-
up and under what rank. “Certainly I
would,” said Mo. “What rank, Mr.
Rene?” “Admiral of the Jewish Navy,
said Mo promptly.
• •
Attached hereto, Arthur Doubleday
has risen a bit since he left Riverina
pastures in 1940 for the air-force
training-school in Calgary, Canada. The
month after gaining his wings he was
posted to Bomber Command —in 1941,
when British bombers had all the work
they could cope with—and a year to the
month after he graduated in flying com-
MASTER - BOMBER
pleted his first operational tour over
Europe. His rise was steady: captain
of heavy - bomber aircraft, flight - com-
mander, and squadron-commander of
operational squadrons. Finally promoted
wing-commander (61 R.A.F. Squadron),
he acted for about six touchy months as
master-bomber of the squadron. He
had just completed a command-course at
Fort Leavenworth, in the U.S., when
the war ended. Back to green Riverina
pastures then for two years (with D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and a “mention”) before flying
took hold again. He joined the
Department of Civil Aviation in 1948,
and is now Director of Civil Aviation
in Queensland, responsible for the safe
control and maintenance of all Queens-
land civil aircraft which touch-down
on 34 commercially - owned landing-
grounds and some 150 licensed airfields.
He’s 42.
• •
A master for 10 years at Otago Boys’
High School (N.Z.), R. W. T. Whittington
goes to Tonga, Director of Education in
the diminutive kingdom. He includes
F.R.G.S. among his educational initials.
• •
“Waddlin’ Willie”: Shortly to deliver
his last sermon, 71-year-old Pastor
Ernest Leong Gie, for the past 31 years
head of Melbourne’s Chinese Methodist
Mission Church. In three decades
with the church he rarely went beyond
Little Bourke-street, Melbourne’s China-
town ; yet he was always busy and on
the move. He came to Australia at the
turn of the century, and now wants to
spend his later days in his homeland.
When a Melbourne journalist sought
the old man’s story he received a cup
of China-tea and the brief “What I have
done here has been for God and my
fellow-men. The reward I have from
that is enough.”
• •
Dr. Rhodes M. Fairbridge, lecturer in
geology at the Westralian University,
becomes professor in charge of Columbia
College, New York. Already with
experience of American universities
(study-leave at Illinois University,
visiting Professor of Geology), Fairbridge
is a graduate of Queen’s (Canada) and
Oxford, and took his D.Sc. in Perth in
1944. As a flyer in War 11, he made
aerial mappings of the North Pacific,
and published a work on landslide
patterns of oceanic atolls and volcanoes:
this performance attracted the notice of
the Scripps Oceanographic Institute of
California, which invited him to join its
1952 expedition in the Pacific ; he was
one of the few non-Americans. More
recently, after leaving Illinois, he worked
at the Scripps Institute at La Jolla, Cali-
fornia, on the observations made during
the Pacific expedition. Son of Kingsley
Fairbridge, founder of the farm-
schools’ project, he’s 40.
Taken over Victoria’s most important
hospital administrative post, Afton
Morcom, new manager of Royal Mel-
bourne. A born organiser, he started
in the public service in the Premier’s
Department, whence he was haled to
organise Victoria’s Centenary celebra-
tions. The anti-cancer campaign was his
next job ; his next, getting money out of
the public pocket to build the vast sick-
bay of which he is now boss. The appeal
brought in £355,000 and the place was
built; later he raised £130,000 to com-
plete the north wing. He goes to his new
job after six months of studying hospital
administration methods in the U.S.,
Canada, Europe and Britain.
• •
“Feng-Shui”: Yugoslav by extraction,
Viennese by adoption, short, stocky,
bushy - haired, jolly Anton Dermota,
principal tenor at the Vienna State Opera
and now in Melbourne under the A.B.C.
banner, was an organist till Bruno Walter
heard his singing voice and immediately
booked him for the Salzburg Festival.
Since 1936 Dermota has sung over Europe
and in the concert-halls of the Americas,
When not singing he collects furniture
and pictures.
• •
Passed the 90th milestone in Perth, Mrs.
H. Bostock, granddaughter of Westralia’s
first Surveyor-General, Captain John
Septimus Roe, R.N., and widow of Harry
Bostock, whose father was the first
Anglican parson in Fremantle. With her
husband she went to Esperance in 1890,
and saw the small settlement grow into a
busy port after the discovery of gold.
The Bostocks moved to Pingelly, where
they farmed for 30 years.
• •
L. M. Harvey, of M. G. Anderson and
Co., is calling it a day this month, after
being governing-director since 1949 of the
firm which for more than half a century
has acted as Adelaide agents for the
Orient Line, Anderson’s connection
with the line went back to 1887, when
he was branch-manager in Adelaide.
Harvey joined him in his own agency
business, partner, in 1928. Orient will
open its own office in Adelaide in the
New Year, taking in most of the
Anderson office-staff.
• •
Passed on in Melbourne, Marcus
Barlow, the architect responsible for
making Melbourne’s “Golden Acre”—
the block, opposite the Town Hall,
which the first Howey bought for £2OO
at the first land-sale —into Melbourne’s
best modern architectural feature. The
Manchester Unity building on the corner
is pseudo-Gothic, but its lines soar
upwards resolutely though lightly, and the
motive is repeated in the Century
Building, all green glass and lacelike
windows. The Manchester Unity
established a record never since remotely
approached by getting itself erected in
nine months the new telephone-
exchange in Russell-street has taken
seven years and is far from finished.
Barlow designed a lot of other Melbourne
buildings. He was 64.
• •.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 65, William Beadle, city coun-
cillor for 20 years and president of the
Authorised Newsagents’ Association. An old
Digger sergeant, D.C.M.
At 71, in Melbourne, Sir James Kennedy,
L.C.P. leader in the Victorian Legislative
Council. Representing Higinbotham Provinces
since 1937, he had held the Transport and
Works portfolios in the late-war years, had
played football and cricket for Carlton, and
was at one time president—and always a par-
ticularly hard worker—for the Congregational
Union in his State.
At Coffs Harbor (N.S.W.), at 77, Duncan
Charles Parbery, old-time sportsman of note.
He played junior cricket with Victor Trumper,
rode in the old N.S.W. Lancers with “Snowy”
Baker, and footballed with “Jersey” Flegg,
of the Rugby League. Parbery and Baker
were in the guard-of-honor for George V and
Queen Mary (then Duke and Duchess of York)
for the 1900 Royal visit; during it Parbery
took on and beat Paddy Ryan, lightweight
champion of the Mediterranean Fleet. He went
on to become champion of Australasia, retiring
undefeated. Later (for 30 years) manager of the
North Coast Steam Navigation Company, after
War II he shifted to banana-planting.
In Sydney, Lucy Mary Doidge, mother of
Sir Frederick Doidge, former New Zealand
High Commissioner (he died this year). A
Londoner, Mrs. Doidge married a New Zealand
journalist, but settled at Cootamundra (N.S.W.),
where her husband . (Edwin Doidge) ran the
local journal and where Sir Frederick was
born in 1884.
In Brisbane, Leon Alexander Meston, son
of the late Archibald Meston, noted authority
on Queensland aborigines, and himself a well-
known research-chemist and analyst in the
northern State. Earlier chemist with mines and
sugarmills, and to the Brisbane Water Board,
L.A. was later Government Analyst and Chiet
Inspector of Explosives for Queensland. He
developed a practically infallible method ot
determining the presence of added water m
milk, read a paper on the subject to the Royal
Society of Queensland, and lived to see his
method adopted in Queensland, the U.S. and
Great Britain.


jjVE IN A PERMANENT HOLIPAV ATMOSPHERE !
/C'ozgbous ocm fwommc/
Choice home sites with EjlclwSivE
views IN This N6W TOP-DRAWEH.
Social, area /
£ASy Berms at HBER. S estate ac-ints-
CufF-TOPS ocm-mw
* mre
REAL ESTATE


ABORIGINALITIES
W°W on issue, the Antarctic com-
_ memorative-stamp, the design of
which is based on the emblem of the
Antarctic Division of the Department
of External Affairs, must hold the
Australian philatelic menagerie record.
The central map indicates in dark color
the territory claimed by Australia. The
sundry beasties surrounding it are,
starting at noon and working clockwise:
the black-browed albatross, or molly-
hawk ; Kerguelen cabbage, a crucifer
found on Heard Island and other isolated
groups in the Southern Ocean; the king-
penguin ; a fish ( Cygnodraco rnawsoni)
found in deep Antarctic waters; a pair
of fishes (. Notothenia macrocephala )
found in the waters around Macquarie
and Heard Islands; the elephant-seal,
or sea-elephant; zooplankton; the
gentoo-penguin; and a plant (Pleuro-
phylum hookeri buch ) with long sage-
green leaves and purple flowers,
abundant on Macquarie Island. —“Hist.”
♦ * * *
“Sam the Saddler”: It is to be hoped
that photos of Queen Elizabeth riding
side-saddle will not reset an old fashion.
It was a relief to the trade when the
three-horned contraption went out. Few
saddle-hands could make them, and the
weight falling on one side was notorious
for giving horses sore backs.
* * * 0
“Kelms”; A Texas oilman at Exmouth
(W.A.) found a mountain-devil about the
same time that a press photographer
found him; and the resultant picture
brought a request from a Perth lad for
a mountain-devil from the same locality.
He got it; but he might have had hun-
dreds from a lot closer. The spiny little
lizards are common in the drier —but not
“ Didn't I say to be aboard by eight bells ?”
too dry—parts of the State, and most
wheatbelt kids at sometime or another
have one tethered to the leg of a bed.
The devil’s as quick as a frog at snapping
flies, and it’ll lick ants up as fast as they
come It never drinks: its skin, which
has a large area because of the spikes
and bumps all over it, soaks up water
like blotting-paper, so that it can really
"Never satisfied! You used to grumble about the crowds on Bondi beach!"
enjoy a light mist or dew. And it can
beat a chameleon at changing color.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: One explanation of how
the Polynesians made their long voyages
and how the Maoris made their way to
New Zealand is that they followed the
flights of migratory birds; another is
that they were wizards at observing the
starry heavens and whenever they dis-
covered an island or a landmark they
fixed its position by the stars. There may
be another, more simple, explanation,
dropped by their orally transmitted tradi-
tion as being too unromantic. The
Vikings, who discovered America long
before Columbus, are said to have steered
by lice, which are said always to walk
due north. The Viking skipper or his
navigating lieutenant probably didn’t
have to search far for his compass,
* * * *
“Fair Mac”; Doubt whether the old
schoolteacher who claimed that Bendigo
received its name from the diggers’
shout of “Benny! Go!” to the abo.
water-carrier (B. 17/11 /’54) would find
a supporter. Historians agree that the
town was named after the old prize-
fighter. Actually, when some of the
more staid members of the community
objected to the association of the town’s
monicker with a bruiser the Gold Com-
missioner changed the name to Sand-
hurst, his father having been governor
of Sandhurst Military College in Eng-
land. But the diggers were in the
majority, and they forced the reversion.
♦ * • •
“Old-timer”: Either “Horseless H.”
(B. 17/11/’54) hadn’t been long m the
Tammit country or wasn’t looking about
him if he believes 1930 to be the first
year ibises appeared there. They were
there in 1917-20 —on Tammit, Tapalin,
Prill, Old Ki and adjoining parts. A thing
about them is that, whereas in normal
times an odd one may be seen poking
about, in times when grasshoppers and
similar pests abound, thousands of ibises
appear. The strangest plague in those
parts followed the big 1917 flood (which,
incidentally, was followed by plagues of
mice, snakes, rabbits and bagmen), when
millions—yes, millions —of the common
waterhen appeared. Though there was
lashins of feed in all the bends the little
brown fowls made it uneatable, and, in
the midst of plenty, we had to hand-feed
the horses. The things vanished as
suddenly as they had appeared and, I
believe, later went through Adelaide on
their way to wherever they were going.
* * * *
“Saaedi”;: The pair of kookaburras
that spent a lot of time in late winter
working to widen an entrance into a
bloodwood abandoned the strenuous job
in spring and settled for a home in a
termites’ nest. When these nests are
available in trees both kookas and king-
fishers seem to prefer them to hollow
tree-spouts as homes. Excavating a
chamber in an ants’ castle presents no
difficulties at all to their strong beaks.
Several North Australian parrots also
raise their families inside termites’ nests,
but they prefer those on the ground.
* ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: Some time ago I
asked here why a fox barks, and
was answered by a scribe who reckoned
that, since nearly all animals have a
distinctive call, there
needn’t be a reason
for any of them.
Couldn’t accept that
as sound, so pursued
my own investiga-
tion. The fox that
harries my poultry-
runs turns up every
few weeks, hangs
around for a few
nights, then leaves
us alone till next
time; so when I
heard him the other
night I knew he’d be
back again, and I
waited. I heard him
coming, barking at
frequent intervals
and increasing the
tempo until he was
right behind the
fowlhouse. Then he
brought it to a cres-
cendo and a pullet
raced from the
house straight into
the netting. He was
there to meet her,
somehow got a grip,
and tried to pull her
through the mesh. Don’t know how
he’d have got on if I hadn’t interrupted,
but I know he resented ray interference.
There was a narked note in his voice as
he made for home on the other side of
the swamp,
* * * *
“M.E.W.”: As an addition to “Nature’s
Nicer Novelties” (B. 8/8/’54): Can
frogs, would you think, become stage-
performers? Yes, if the words of
the old Chinese classics can be
trusted. When The Great Yu,
emperor of the First
Dynasty in those 2800
b.c. days, set out on a
tour of inspection
through his nine pro-
vinces he took with him
a troupe of Singing
Frogs. Arrived at a
province where his sub-
jects proffered tribute.
Emperor Yu would line-
up his musicians and
direct that the Singing
Frogs be shown, where-
upon the man in charge
would step forward
while the crowd gathered
round. He had a
wooden box, divided by
partitions into 12 holes,
in each of which was a
frog. And whenever he
tapped one of these frogs
on the head with a tiny
wand the frog so touched
would immediately
sound a note. When
each frog in turn had
been thus happily ex-
cited, the man tapped
the frogs all round just
as if he were striking a
series of small gongs;
whereupon they all sang
together in perfect time
and harmony. The
imperial triangle, the
skin-drum, the stone-
rattle, and the iron bell softly filled-in
the melody. And the people burst into
an evening chant of praise.
# ♦ * *
“Tidbinbilla”: It is true that the level
of water is not changed by the melting
of floating ice (B. 10/11/ ’54), but if the
mile-thick slabs of ice now resting on
Greenland and Antarctica were to melt
the water so formed would be pure gain
for the ocean. According to the most
recent calculations published (1940), the
volume of ice on the earth at present
totals 2,300,000 cubic miles; its melting
would raise the level of the sea by 79ft.
Actual measurements of mean sea-level
show slow rises at some stations, and
slow falls at others, the rate either way
rarely exceeding Sin. per decade. The
observations may have to be continued
for several more decades before it is
clear whether the average change is a
rise or a fall; in either case the overall
rate is probably less than Ift. per century.
So you needn’t change your seaside home
for a mountain chalet unless some ill-
advised country starts melting the
Antarctic ice-cap to get at the coal, oil
or uranium under it.
* * • »
“Quo Vadis”: A flooded claypan,
which can be greasier than a fat pork-
chop, is the ideal medium on which to
learn to control a skidding vehicle. It’s
a full-time job for an expert, and there’s
many a thrill awaiting the sceptic. The
dried-out claypan also makes a fine
tennis-court; there are dozens of them
in use in Queensland pastoral country.
* ♦ • *
“H.A.L.”: When New Zealand, thanks
to Dr. Orbell, of Invercargill, found that
its flightless notornis (takahe of the
Maori) wasn’t extinct, drastic measures
were taken to preserve it. No less than
400,000 acres of the South Island Alps
which surrounds the 1000 or so acres
of rugged valleys in which the bird still
survived was declared a sanctuary. This
might look like overdoing it, but N.Z.
has had a severe lesson: when the
first white settlers arrived they were
charmed with the wonderful bird-chorus
which greeted the dawn ; the forests rang
with the tinkling notes of tui and bell-
bird ; but introduced pests have played
havoc with these and others. Today the
Dominion has so few song-birds that
visitors from overseas comment on the
silence of the bush. Recently, when
American scientists went there to collect
material for a museum exhibit they were
allowed to take one specimen of a tui and
one of the native pigeon as a very great
favor. In these circumstances, the reserve
to preserve the last few dozen takahe-
birds in existence wasn’t an acre too
large.
CNWARD!
Scenes of my far-off childhood
Are scenes that I loved best—
Hours in the bird-filled wildwood,
Days on (he river’s breast . . .
Over the ymrs, I feel them,
Sweet as am old refrain,
\ knew Time would steal them
And I’ll never see them again.
“Go on war-my father told me;
“Never go back, my son.”
Whatever fortune befell me
I ever wont on and on,
With a backward glance for remembrance
And a sigh for those happy days,
When a scene with a vague resemblance
Crossed a wanderer’s gaze.
The sailing punt on the river,
The pony I used to ride . . .
Sometimes I wake with a shiver
From dv earns of days that died . . .
My first little sweetheart, Susie,
I remejt jber best of all,
Even wh«n days are busy
And nearer voices call.
The years have been packed with magic,
When 1 look back on them,
With hern a memory tragic
And there a shining gem.
Onward! So said my father,
And f taw the future gleam . , .
Through mists that softly gather,
I knov the past is a dream.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


To the man responsible for
PROTECTION
AGAINST FIRE
r
j
SPRAY
BOOTHS
SOLVENTS
STORAGE
ROOM
OUTDOOR
TRANS-
FORMERS
I
'll
piir MOTORS
AND
GENERATORS
QUENCH
AND
DIPTANKS
W
-
. . . how well do you know your fire hazards?
How hard would one bad fire hit your business? Where is it most
likely to start —in some key spot which could knock out your entire
production? Hundreds of industries have faced up to these questions
and have found that the only safe answer is complete protection for
key hazards.
Such protection can best be supplied by “AUTOMATIC” —
specialists in fire protection for 32 years.
During this period “Automatic” Systems made over 500 dramatic
“saves.” On an average, three sprinkler heads operated in each case,
resulting in an average insurance paid per fire of only £97, including
water damage.
(Regular weekly examination and testing—an included service by
“AUTOMATIC”—has contributed in no small way to this
unequalled record.)
Another week’s delay may cripple or destroy your business —call in
“AUTOMATIC’S” engineers now. They will help you check-up on
the danger spots and familiarise you with the equipment needed to
protect them.
“Automatic” Fire Protection Equipment Includes;
“Atlas” Sprinkler and Fire Alarm Systems; Completely engineered
and installed by us and examined, tested and serviced weekly,
ensuring 100 per cent, efficiency. Such installations qualify for rebates
of tip to 50 per cent, on fire insurances, applicable to building and
contents, depending on the quality of the water supply.
“Oilfyre” (Atomised Water) Systems; Specialised equipment for
extinguishing fires in oil and other inflammable liquids. Indoor and
outdoor equipment. ' , . .
“Atlas” CO2 Gas Systems; Used extensively to protect electrical
equipment —non-conducting Atlas for highly inflammable liquids
petrol, oil, paint, lacquer, alcohol, etc.
“Automatic” Hand Chemical Extinguishers: All types available:
Soda Acid, Foam, Carbon Tetrachloride, etc.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PTY. LTD.
mm
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works. 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
Telephone: MU 2476
VICTORIA; Carlton Works, 179 Berkeley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, 663 South Road, Edwardstown. N. R. Dowling, Director.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager.
QUEENSLAND; Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee Road, Hendra. J. E. Robinson, Manager.
NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. G. K. Bunce, Manager.
AN old-man goanna came to the clear
waterhole where I was having lunch,
and I watched him testing the air with
a flickering tongue and looking about him
cautiously. Then he went in and sub-
merged, raising a furrow of mud as he
slipped along the bottom until a couple
of feet of water was above him. He lay
there without a move for half an hour.
I got a long stick and gently prodded
him; he straightway ploughed along the
bottom into a deeper spot. He was still
there when I left. He was drinking, but
he wouldn’t have had his mouth open.
His method requires plenty of time ; he
absorbs the water through his skin.—
“Varanus.”
* ♦ * *
“Vermouth”: “Horseshoe Bar” (B.
10/11/ ’54) had better straighten out his
cobber’s dog-psychology. By his method
of pup-selection—taking them a bit away
from Mum and plumping for the one
first back to the bowser —he’s most likely
to get the timid tyke that hankers after
Mum’s protection, while its adventurous
and inquisitive brother (such traits being
a sign of intelligence) won’t have a show.
There are no such pitfalls in the mother-
selection method (B. 20/10/’54). Try it,
mate. It works.
« * « *
“Spin”; The laughing kookaburra—
Dacelo gigas —isn’t a native to W.A.,
having been released from the South
Perth Zoo in the 1890’s, so there’s prob-
ably no local native name for it. But
another species, the blue-winged kooka-
burra—Dacelo leachii —is a native of
the nor’-west. It has the characteristic
chuckle, as loud but not nearly as jovial
as Gigas’s ; but the natives didn’t name
it after its song. They called it Pookar,
which means “stinking,” and refers to
the bird’s nest. It does stink ; but what
would you expect from a bird that lives
largely on fish and nests in a tree-hollow
from which practically nothing can be
washed away?
"But you distinctly said you had no objection to sharing a room!"
“Wippegong”: What’s this about
grouping the pelican with birds “heavy
on the wing” (B, 10/11/ ’54)? Once his
long neck and great scoop are retracted
the big bloke is beautifully streamlined.
I’ve seen a party of them take off from
the lagoon and, soaring only, set off in
the tracks of a pair of wedgetails already
a few hundred feet up and literally beat
the eagles out of sight;, only if you know
where they are circling can you spot
the glint against the sky as the sunlight
catches their white breasts. Coming into
wind they get tremendous lift, and, taking
a wide sweep, are able not only to meet
the breeze at good speed but to use it
for a longer stretch than do hawks and
their larger relatives.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; One Sunday morning
Mat arrived in Melbourne in charge of a
rail-consignment of young rams for the
annual sales. It was just after daylight
when he got the things in their pens at
the wool-store siding, then he got his bag
and went out into North Melbourne to
get transport to South Don’t
know what it’s like now, but in those
days this was the height of optimism.
By the time he’d walked all the way to
Spencer-street Mat was worn to the
elbows. So when he found a taxi there,
with the driver asleep over the wheel, he
simply climbed in quietly and himself
went to sleep. But you ought to have
heard him when, after delivering him at
South Yarra about an hour and a half
later, the cabby wanted to charge him
extra for sleeping in the cab!
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Simply because termites
“wing towards sheds, fences and homes”
(B. 3711 / ’54) it doesn’t necessarily follow
that they can’t be beaten. A band of
creosote can give adequate protection to
posts of fences and sheds; kero, will also
settle their hash. And if a weatherboard
or fibro house is constructed according to
building - regulations it will have
galvanised-iron caps on all piers and
foundation-walls guaranteed to frus-
trate any white-ant.
* * * *
“Kerba”: The Oregon plank had for
months been lying across a log, close to
the ground; when I lifted it several
dozen snails were clinging to the under-
side, and examination revealed that
areas of the wood had been eaten to a
depth of a sixteenth of an inch all over
the plank, giving a ridged pattern. Long
ago I discovered that snails will devour
paper, with a surprising speed, but it
amazed me that they could manage
well-seasoned timber. Incidentally,
although the board had not been used
on a building for many years, it was still
stained white with inground lime. Yet
the belief still persists that lime is a
protection against snails!
“Bass”: W.A.’s wild-life has been
thoroughly investigated; since the days
of James Drummond, the botanist who
came out in the Parmelia with Stirling,
naturalists have sleuthed into the homes
and habits of everything that runs,
crawls, burrows or flies. Yet something
new still turns up occasionally, as when
a new species of fresh-water tortoise was
discovered last year —a short-necked type
allied to the common tortoise of south-
eastern and northern Australia, and so
different from the long-necked tortoise
of sou’-Westralian swamps that it’s
amazing it had been overlooked so long.
Now W.A. naturalists are searching for
other unknown species—possibly some
that will throw more light on the fauna
connections of both sides of the
Nullarbor.
WIND IN THE SHEOAK
Now there is only sadness,
Only the mourner’s sigh, choking
Sweet laughter in the river’s throat;
A gathered loneliness of years
Breathed as the shivered dawn
Between night fear and unknowing day;
Perhaps Koob-borra gave
The root of anguish to the tree,
Feeling his last sun coldly
And his strength a whisper of itself—
As if he lay already with the tribe,
Their ending in his bones, the oak
Taking his sorrow to the wind
While the brown needles fall gently down.
N.S.W.
BERNARD PEACH.


i\ow...
a Sound, Sure Way to
Make Your Money Earn
71
PER ANNUM
With a view to supplementing funds to meet
the ever-increasing demand for their services as
hire purchase financiers. Alliance Acceptance
Co. Limited are now accepting Term Deposits
at the undermentioned rates per annum for
the periods shown:
CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE
1. Interest is payable quarterly from the date of
acceptance.
2. Minimum deposit is £lOO.
3. Applications should be made on the special
Application Form (see below) and should be
forwarded, together with cheque, to the Secre-
tary at the Registered Office of the Company.
Victorian subscribers may lodge applications
direct with Victorian Branch Office,
SOUND DEVELOPMENT
Alliance Acceptance Co. Limited commenced
operations in April, 1951. The conservative
policy maintained during the subsequent years
of highly successful trading has built a sound
foundation for expansion in the future.
IVTsilir si
TERM DEPOSIT
with
ALLIANCE
ACCEPTANCE
CO. LIMITED
(INC. IN N.S.W.)
Application Forms may be obtained from all Stock-
brokers or direct from Alliance Acceptance Co.
Limited at either of the following addresses:
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE;
St. John House Brentwood House
21 Macquarie Place 420 St. Kilda Road
Telephone: BU 6147 Telephone: BM 1292
ALLIANCE ACCEPTANCE CO. LIMITED.
Please send details of your Term Deposit Plan.
NAME
ADDRESS.—
B 2
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experi-
ment with
Imitations,
C. Brandmuer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
you con put 700 lb. of meat in
this Kashfte&lje quick-freezer
There are many times when you have meal or supplies in
quantity or when reliable food preservation over a long
period could be of great assistance to you. Stock might be
at its best for the table ... an abundance of vegetables
. • . Spring, for killing poultry at its best. All are
occasions when you really appreciate a quick-
freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you can store food in bulk
at these times and keep it safely, till needed. For instance,
fresh beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal, poultry, butter;
fruit, vegetables, baked bread and fruit cake can all be
stored in a Flashfreeze for as long as 12 months without
deterioration in flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is
the convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand because
these units are large, the one illustrated above having
a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding 700 lb. of meat or
an equivalent quantity of vegetables or other food stuffs.
All Flashfreeze models have at least 2 compartments for
long storage quick-freezing. However, some models have an
additional section for refrigeration for your normal to
day needs—a combination of the best in quick-freezing
and refrigeration.
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination, JBJ
cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu. ft. of refrig-
eration. PRI4. Freezer-Refrigerator Combina-
tion, 10i cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu. ft,
of refrigeration. PI2. Freezer —capacity _l2
cu. ft. For full information and details,
contact:
f
WOVE? BBOf. (fYDWEY) ITB.i 15 Clarence St., Sydney. B 0254
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Factory Survey
Australia’s factories are pro-
ducing an unprecedented volume
of goods. That is the verdict of
the Division of Industrial
Development (Canberra) in its
latest survey. Total manufactur-
ing output is now running at
about double the volume of
1938-39, roughly 10 p.c. above
1951, and around 3-4 p.c. higher
than six months ago.
In particular, output of
alkalis, paint and metal castings
—used by a wide range of indus-
tries —was 10 p.c. higher in
October than in April.
Wool textiles and cutlery have
suffered a slight reverse since
April. Cotton- and rayon-textile
output is about the same as it
was earlier this year.
Apart from iron castings,
record outputs are being achieved
in respect of copper, cement,
fibrous plaster, motor-vehicles
and tyres, electric motors and
newsprint.
Labor-supply difficulties are
increasing, and steel-shortage
continues. About one ton of steel
in every four used needs to be
imported.
A larger volume of factory
‘ output has reduced costs per
unit, productive efficiency is
showing fair improvement, and
in a few industries small tariff-
increases “have helped to blunt
the edge of competition from
overseas.” Over the past six
months costs and prices have
been remarkably steady, “with
improved efficiency offsetting
slightly higher costs for materials
and labor.”
Trade and Productivity
According to the chairman of
the National Bank of Australasia
(Mr. H. D. Giddy) business
activity has been sustained at a
high level in Australia. There is
evidence at the moment of
shortages of labor and of some
materials, but generally supplies
have been adequate and price-
stability has been maintained.
, These conditions have been
achieved without stimulation
from Federal Government
deficit-financing, as private invest-
ment outlays and public spending
have continued buoyant.
Following a minor addition of
£9 million to London funds dur-
ing the last fiscal year, there has
lately been a sharp deterioration
in the overseas balance of pay-
ments, because of a rapid rise
in imports and some weakening
in our export market for
wheat and some other primary
products.
Trends in overseas balance
of payments are still a
basic governor of Australian
internal business conditions, and
they have, therefore, an
important effect upon the rate of
national development. For a
variety of reasons, relatively
little manufacturing production
is exported at present, though it
is making a valuable contribu-
tion to the economy by reducing
Australia’s import needs.
One fundamental fact which
has emerged over the last decade,
continued Mr. Giddy, is the need
for the British Commonwealth to
improve its productive capacity.
Published in September, the last
report of the British Productivity
Council, covering a visit to the
United States of America by a
British specialist team on indus-
trial engineering in 1953, refers
to the outstanding nature of
American industrial production
compared with that of Britain.
It expresses the view that this
superiority has increased over
the last decade or so, and quotes
authoritative opinions that this
divergence, if not corrected by
the British world, will almost
certainly become greater within
the next 15 years.
Though there are many other
complicating factors, a big
improvement in the Common-
wealth sterling area’s produc-
tivity seems essential to the
permanent restoration of free
convertibility of sterling—a
major goal, and its attainment
is of very special concern to
Australia’s future progress. For,
these days, a strong rate of
improvement in production is
basic to the strength of the
currency.
Australia, a typical “outer
section” of the British Common-
wealth, needs people and capital
for further material increases in
its productive capacity. That
this continent is capable of such
increases, ranging over food-
stuffs, a wide variety of important
raw materials and manufactures,
is not in doubt. But their speedy
achievement requires more
people, more capital and reason-
able assurance of enlarging
markets.
Britain could supply the
people, to a large extent the
market, and, where appropriate,
the knowledge. But the grievous
effects of two world wars, and
possibly, in the immediate post-
war years, concentration upon
achievement of “the Welfare
State,” have limited its ability to
supply capital. However, though
obviously quite inadequate for
the task, moves such as establish-
ment of the Commonwealth
Development Finance Company
last year are a help.
At present the only source of
capital sufficient for really
extensive development of the
outer sections would appear to
be the United States of America.
If forthcoming, such capital
would be profitably used and
would ultimately result in rich
rewards to the whole English-
speaking peoples. The Double-
tax Agreement with the U.S.A.,
concluded last December, should
facilitate the supply of American
capital. And the success that
has attended the establishment
of large plants by General
Motors-Holden’s, International
Harvester Co. and several oil
companies—to name only a few
—should, if further evidence be
needed, indicate the possibilities
of safe and profitable investment
for United States funds.
But Britain also could do
more. Good terms of trade given
to Australia would be, in a sense,
equivalent to a supply of capital.
“I do not believe,” said Mr.
Giddy, “that we in the sterling
area of our Commonwealth of
Nations should take any pleasure
in the restrictive and backward
economic thinking that counten-
ances productive inefficiency
behind a wall of either excessive
tariff-protection or sterling-incon-
vertibility. That way lies danger
to the British world. As the
United States Economic Co-
operation Administration’s
Special Mission to the United
Kingdom reminded us, in a
valuable study originally
authorised by Mr. Paul Hoff-
man : ‘The sterling area contains
a quarter of the world’s popula-
tion and carries on a quarter of
the world’s international trade.
Its members all belong to the
community of democratic
countries, and their resources
make up a substantial part of the
free world’s total.’ ”
Oil in the West
With Rough Range No. 5
another dry hole, the chances
of the 3600 ft. level at Rough
Range becoming a major pro-
ducing horizon have now receded.
Rough Range No. 1, where a
lucky strike of oil was made at
3605 ft., was down to 12,906 ft,
last week, and no new oil-
horizons have been encountered.
The comparatively difficult task
of finding out where the 3605 ft.
oil migrated from now will need
to be undertaken. The subject
was well covered in an article by
oil-geologist L. Owen in last
week’s issue.
The next move at Rough
Range will probably depend on
a close study of all the informa-
tion that can be got from the
five boreholes. Geologist L.
Owen, however, has expressed
the belief that major production
will come from somewhere lower
than the “discovery” horizon.
At Shothole Canyon, Cape
Range No. 1 is down to around
7000 ft. A core of fractured silt-
stone between 6500 ft. and 6518 ft.
had shown oil and gas traces, but
the oil was not present in com-
mercial quantities. Between
6518 ft, and 6534 ft., gas was
present, but no oil. The Wapet
management has reported that
siltstone formations are not
usually good oil-reservoirs.
Drilling at Grant Range, in the
Kimberleys, continues. This is a
particularly interesting hole, even
though it may not have the
immediately spectacular but later
disappointing results of the
Rough Range area.
The Wapet board has an
extensive exploratory and drilling
campaign in hand, and it is not
wasting any time. It aims to
spend £4 million on oil-search
in 1955. From the point of view
of the Ampol companies it is a
pity that some of the four holes
drilled apart from Rough Range
No. 1 were not producers, as it
might have lessened the call for
finances of a capital nature.
Whatever money Wapet spends
in searching for oil, Ampol
Exploration will be required to
find 20 p.c. of it. In order
words, if Wapet spends £4
million, Ampol Ex. will have to
find £BOO,OOO. Present issued
capital of Ampol Ex. is 8,000,000
shares of ss. each. It has con-
siderable funds in hand,
Sharemarket support for
Ampol issues fluctuated last
week. Following a report from
the board of the Exploration
company that overall prospects
of the Wapet venture were
encouraging, and that remarks
made by Wapet geologist
Cunningham had been mis-
construed in the press or not
fully reported, there was an
upward movement in Ampol
shares early in the week. But
when Rough Range No. 5 turned
out to be dry, and Cape Range
oil-showings proved to be
uncommercial, there was a drop
in the Exploration scrip to the
lowest level since the oil-strike in
1953. They touched 405., at which
figure the market valued the whole
Wapet venture at £BO million.
Associated Freney shares
fluctuated. Freney’s Nerrima
Dome is about 40 miles south-
east of Grant Range No. 1, and
whatever happens at Grant
Range is bound to affect Freney
scrip. Associated Freney has
two other leases in the area, both
nearer to Grant Range, but not
considered so favorably
geologically.


PcuiJt Ml
m
w
In a letter from an American friend comes a
neat observation.
“In human affairs,” he says, “balance is a
matter of action, of development, of progress, of
moving with the times.”
To illustrate this point, he refers to that com-
bination of speed and force which keeps the cyclist
on his machine. The faster he moves, the better his
balance.
Let us apply the allusion to Australia.
Pause for a moment to consider the powerful
vehicle we have here for the using: its natural
wealth and potential in production, its industry.
Ours are the hands, under Providence, to
control all this. Ours is the effort that will speed
Australia down the years—not only speed it, but
» set its accelerating pace.
Most of us will have sensed the sudden
acceleration that Australia has been making in the
post-war years. We have witnessed a quick
expansion, building, a rise in production, a certain
increase in population.
The velocity is growing. But to those attuned
to speed and as one who has had something to do
with high efficiency engines, aircraft and tractors, I
can claim to know something of that sensation,
there must often come the realisation that Australia
is only beginning to tap the power and rise of
which it is capable.
What this country needs to give it that extra
thrust forward is Capital Investment, combined
with an increase in manpower. Given those, I
believe we will astonish the world in our feat of
“balanced projection” in the years immediately
ahead.
Most of my life I have been a student of
dynamics. It has been part of my business to know
something of what energy will do in movement.
That is why the Australian material potential
in my eyes appears as a magnificent machine, but
the machine alone is not enough in today’s quicken-
ing race in the world. Into its propulsion must go
all the human skills we can muster, every unit of
energy we can draw.
To borrow the phrase of my good American
friend we must “move with the times.”
Divorce Notice
TO PERCY JOHN ARANTZ late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY TERESA ARANTZ
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4015 of
1954 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter ah appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 22nd day of March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of 160 Castleueagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER 1954
ASSETS '
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £24,622,985
Money at Short Call—London .. .. .. J.0G0.000
Short-dated Treasury Bills Australia 10,000,000
35,62-2,985
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 76.420,009
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand • • 8,340,650
Government Securities Australia, New
Zealand and Fiji, at or under Market
Value .. ; 36,566,905
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’
Securities, at or under Market Value 2,516,988
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 40,Z40,yy0
Amounts due by Other Banks .. .. .. 8,640,269
216,351,793
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Local Bills Discounted (less Provision
for Bad or Doubtful Debts) 257,254.345
Bank Premises at Cost, less amounts
written off 6.250.000
All other Assets •• 543,2/0
I 480,399,358
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 53,307.874
£533,707,232
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital—6sB,soo Ordin-
ary Shares of £2O each £13,170,000
Reserve Fund £7,250,000
Premiums on New Share
Issue 1,646,250
Transfer from Reserve for
Contingencies 1,000,000
Proposed Addition for the
Year 103,750
" 10,000,000
Proposed Final Dividend, payable Novem-
ber 1954 296,325
Profit carried forward TW.tw
Shareholders’ Funds 24,235,565
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate. Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, including
Reserve for Contingencies 453,8 qq?1
Notes in Circulation 80,917
Balances Due to Other Banks 2,267,469
480,399,35-8
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 53,307,874
i £533,707,232
Net Profit lor Year ended 30th September
195 J, £1,491,417
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir COLIN A. SINCLAIR, k.b.e.. President
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
The Hon. R. C. WILSON,
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
V. C. FAIRFAX, Esq.
C.M.C., M.L.C. 1
General Manager —H. C. C. MARSHALL
Assistant General Manager —R. J. ABERCROMBIE
Chief Inspectors D. W. GARLAND,
R. R. McKELLAR, A. STEW ART-RICHARDSON
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A 54388
Landan Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Despite Britain’s low ratio of
:ar-owners to the total popula-
tion (1:17, compared to 1:8 in
Australia and 1:4 in the United
States), the number of cars on
the roads is increasing. There
are 250,000 more vehicles
annually; the driving-schools
have full appointment-lists; to
park a car in Central London
calls for both ingenuity and
peculiar topographical know-
ledge. A run-out at weekends
to familiar and once-quiet
beauty-spots in the Home
Counties amounts to taking part
in a rally. And, it is said, Lon-
don’s traffic at peak-hours is so
congested as to be dangerously
near a standstill.
Practically nothing is being
done to check the growth.
Nothing can be done. On the
one hand the motor trade is
booming, to the benefit of our
exports. On the other, anyone
who wants to buy a car is rightly
free to do so if he has the
means ; and a rising standard of
living will naturally increase
the number of motorists.
The Treasury, always mindful
of steady and tidy sources of
taxation, has not neglected this
rewarding field. The buyer of a
car listed at £lOOO has to put
down another £4OO in purchase-
tax. With the further imposi-
tion of petrol-tax and road-tax
it is estimated that, given an
average life, his car will cost
him about 3d. a mile in taxation
alone.
The motorist, whether for
business or pleasure, might be
justified in expecting that this
hefty levy be applied towards
the roads and other services
ancillary to transport. In fact,
it is not. Only ten per cent,
of the £385 million paid by
road-users in taxation in 1953-54
was applied to road-mainten-
ance. The result is that
our road - systems, after 15
years of neglect, are so inade-
quate that the existence, at
least, of a crisis that appears to
have no ready solution can no
longer be burked.
It is a situation that is fraught
with economic, political and
practical difficulties, but there
are loud rumors that the
Queen’s Speech will announce a
programme of remedy when the
new session is opened at the end
of November.
State Pensions
There is a good deal of un-
edifying, and largely wasted,
jockeying for party - political
advantage over the increases in
State pensions which are certain
to be given effect to just as soon
as is practicable.
The pensioners themselves
have strong and touching
arguments. They are the severest
casualties of a Welfare State
which, however well-intentioned,
is unable, by reason of its own
combination of defect and effect,
to give fair shares to all.
The Government, too, has an
unanswerable case. Apart from
a natural over-sensitiveness to
pressure (not wholly out of con-
cern for the aged) within its
own ranks, it can lay claim to a
proper course of action. Pensions
have to be earned and, with
people living longer, will be an
increasing strain upon the
community.
The Chancellor, therefore,
called for two reports, one from
the Government Actuary and
the other from an independent
committee. The first is in his
hands and the second will soon
follow. War-disability pensions
present no difficulties other than
financial, since they involve
neither legislation nor the issue of
millions of new warrant-books.
But the administrative problems
attendant on the revision of old-
age pensions are more consider-
able even a provisional,
“goodwill” increase befo r e
Christmas is not considered to
be workable.
The Government is believed
to be quite unconcerned about
Opposition sniping. In fact, the
motion of censure on the alleged
delay was relished. It is not
forgotten that, when the Labor
Government raised old - age
pensions in April, 1951, the first
increase was not paid until the
following October. There will,
this time, be a considerably
shorter time-lag.
Here, again, is an issue that
puts neither party in the purest
of white lights. It were better
removed from party politics.
Pageantry and Poesy
The Claudel-Honegger “Joan
of Arc at the Stake” has just
completed a short but success-
ful season at the Stoll theatre.
It is true that the prime attrac-
tion was not the play (or, more
correctly, the dramatised cantata)
but the star, Ingrid Bergman,
whose name has unashamedly
outshone the other details on
the bills. Yet it is a stronger
truth that Miss Bergman, were
she overmindful of her “public,”
might easily have chosen to
exhibit herself in some trashy
confection written to order. And
it is another plain and hard
truth that this work, which calls
for a symphony orchestra, a
choir of 50 and a cast of 100
(including a corps de ballet ),
would not be economically
feasible without a sure-fire box-
office name as “draw.”
The production, taken as a
whole, is quite tremendous. It
leaves a deep impression. Yet
that impression is vague and
hard to define. Memory, always
fickle, obstinately bobs up with
a trio of ghosts—Honegger’s
music, a huge stage with
grotesquely empty voids and an
equally huge box -of - tricks
cyclorama.
Notwithstanding its imagery
and pointed allegory, the work
is thrown quite out of joint by
a picture-frame stage, Joan
and the attendant Brother
Dominic (played with immense
restrained power by Valentine
Dyall) spend more time im-
mobile as spotlighted chorus
than as principal actors. Miss
Bergman has every beautiful
trait of woman and saint, but
she has neither the peasant
bluntness nor the natural
soldiery of Joan of Arc. Her
spoken voice is not strong
enough to sound above the music,
which is often loud and brassy.
The score is versatile, ranging
from plainsong to strident
jazziness, and most evocative.
Figuratively speaking, it wears
the grease-paint better than the
actors.
The glitter of effects (some
of which were mercifully toned
down) inhibits Robert Ros-
selini’s production, and his
handling of the crowd-scenes
might well be more subtly
conceived.
* * •
The first of the John Parker
lectures under the auspices of
the Critics’ Circle was given by
E, Martin Browne on “The
Poet in the Theatre.” He spoke
at some authoritative length to
a rather select audience. The
moral of his address was simply
this: there are poets who can
adapt themselves to the theatre ;
there are actors who can speak
and interpret verse ; but there
are no audiences “ready for
poetry” as the Elizabethans and
Jacobeans were. So Mr. Browne
was left, as it were, gasping for
intellectual breath in an impas-
sioned plea for “workshops,”
outside the commercial theatre,
to cater* for the young poets
“who have nowhere to go.”
This, coming from so know-
ledgeable a champion, is hardly
encouraging to the poet-
dramatist without patron or
following.


Act now to protect YOUR ESTATE through the years ahead
d
fd
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint an
experienced Executor—such as the Union Trustee Company.
During nearly 70 years of administration of every class of
estate the Company has amassed a fund of experience such as
no one person could achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists,
the expert services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in
each of the three Eastern States is readily available —to provide
valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges are
moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain these services
at a personal interview —or you may prefer to write for a
copy of the Company’s free booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established UBI
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WIE CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
A FAST - GROWING nation needs
enlarged banking services. To help
provide them the energetic and forward-
looking National—it is one of the three
giants among the big-seven private
trading banks in Australia—will ask
those on the register at January 27 next
to put up £3,363,012 of fresh share
capital, plus £1,008,904 of share-
premiums.
The issue is on a one-for-two basis at
a premium of 30 p.c. It will consist of
1,863,012 £1 shares offered at 265. each
and 2,400,000 £1 shares to be paid to
12s. 6d. offered at 16s. 3d. each. The
offer is to holders of the existing fully-
paids and contribs. respectively, and both
lots of new shares are payable in full
on application by March 31, 1955.
Paid capital will be thus lifted to
£10,089,037 in 5,589,037 f.-p. £1 shares
and 7,200,000 £1 shares paid to 12s. 6d.
each. On that lot a 9 p.c. div. (rate paid
last term) will call for £908,013, or
£166,629 more profit than was claimed
for the year to September 30 last. The
£166,629 to 3.8 p.c. on the new
capital and share-premium money com-
bined, whereas last term’s £741,394 of
profit was 5.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). So
maintenance of the 9 p.c. div. looks as
assured as anything of the kind can
look under existing conditions.
The market prices the f.-p. shares at
41s. 3d. and the contribs. at 235. 9d.
After exercising the rights and allowing
for brokerage, the net price would be
365. 6d. and 21s. 5d., which give returns
of 4.9 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively on a
9 p.c. div. basis. Theoretical value of
the rights is 10s. for the fully-paids and
4s. lOd. for the contribs. Including the
new issue, but not the uncalled capital
of the contribs., net tangible cover
(book-value) is 335. lid. per £1 of paid
capital.
Since the war the growth of bank
profits has not kept in step with the
expansion of banking activity, due to
hampering legislative controls and rising
costs. Recent amendments to the Bank-
ing Act eased the position a little, and
so did wage-pegging and the 1953 reduc-
tion in the rate of co.-tax. During the
year to September 30 last buoyant trade,
the opening of 29 new branches and 51
additional receiving-offices, and growth in
advances sent the National’s gross earn-
ings (£7,642,087) up by £621,682. That
was after allowing sometLing for contin-
gencies, a provision not likely to be
skimped during good years. However,
exes, (£5,811,845, up £434,505) and tax-
provision (£1,088,848, up £114,787)
gobbled up all but £72,390 of the gain:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Ee-
Sept., Profit. 6+ p.c. ten Off. serves. serves.
£> £> £ £/ £/
1948.. 558,597 487,192 65,000 56,405 5,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,173 470,822 65,000 4,351 5,275,251
1950. . 5941634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,063
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952.. 658,066 470,822 100,000 82,844 5,434,860
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
8 p.c.
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36;052 6,001,840
The £741,394 of profit claimed was 11
p.c. on capital as it stood when the books
were ruled off ,as against 9.9, 9.7, 9.2, 8.8
and 8 p.c. back to 1949. More than baff
the profit came from interest on Govern-
ment securities, Treasury bills and
deposits on special account with the
Commonwealth Bank. The further lift
in the div. from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. can be
taken as an expression of the board’s
confidence in the outlook as a whole and
that of the bank in particular.
The year’s net growth of £12,736,185
in the balance-sheet total resulted almost
wholly from a rise of £12,540,398 in
deposits, which was accompanied by an
expansion of £27,689,445 in advances and
consequent contraction of £18,781,898
in liquids:
R 952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £6,726,025
Reserves .. 6,434,866 5,965,788 6,001,840
Notes .. 47,484 47,484 47,479
Deposits .. 198,345,748 227.587,114 240,127,512
Due other
banks .. 445,646 97.299 189,779
Final divs. 235,411 269,041 336,301
£211.235,180 £240,692,751 £253,428,936
Liquids .. 41,383,171 70,719,013 51,937,1X5
Special a/c 34,837,000 45,637,00(f 47,787,000
Loans, ad-
vances .. 128,890,879 118,525,559 146,215,004
Premises .. 8,474,531 3,651,000 4,029,036
Other assets 2,644,099 2,160,179 3,510,781
£211,235,180 £240,692,751 £253,428,936
Other assets (up £1,350,602) include an
unspecified but substantial shareholding
in Custom Credit Corp. (paid capital
£1,500,000), for which the bank acts as
financial agent at all its Australian
branches. It has thus become associated
with consumer instalment-credit without
prejudicing its capacity to provide
overdraft-accommodation.
The ratio of liquids to deposits and
amounts due to other banks fell from
31 p.c. to 21.6 p.c, over the last 12
months. The contraction is a reflection
of the deterioration in our overseas bal-
ance of payments, which followed a rise
in imports-and weakening in some sectors
of the export market.
The central bank says a ratio of
liquids to deposits, etc., of about one-
quarter, allowing for seasonal and other
short-term fluctuations, would ensure
that the banking system had sufficient,
but not more than sufficient, funds to
meet the needs of a steadily expanding
economy. Hence the announcement by
the National’s chairman that “the inclina-
tion to rely on hank-overdraft accommo-
dation to finance increased values of
stocks and debts is a tendency which the
banking system must curb,” and that
“capital structures should be re-examined
with the idea of providing more fixed
capital.” Deposits siphoned off into
special account with the Commonwealth
Bank are in the nature of a reserve to
damp down inflationary trends and to
take the sting out of emergency develop-
ments, such as occurred in 1952.
If Australia is now overimporting and
underexporting the reason is to be found
in the fact that our internal price-levels
are out of line with those of other
countries. Among other things, the
position obviously calls for increased
production of saleable commodities at
steady wage-rates, which might yet mean
a longer working week. The alternative
will be ultimately a high level of unem-
ployment and all the evils that go with it.
United Insurance Co.
r pHE proposed new share-issue, which
-*■ is to follow reconstruction of the
capital account, fits in pretty well with
market anticipations. Paid capital is
£5OO/100 in 100,000 £lO shares paid to
£5 each. Subject to approval of the
court, the uncalled liability of £5 is to
be extinguished. The £5 shares are then
to be split into £1 units, and those on
the register are to be offered (date yet to
be announced) 200,000 new £1 shares,
two for five, at par. That will lift paid
capital to £700,000, on which last term’s
rate of distribution (15 p.c,, of winch
2 \ pic. is labelled special bonus) would
call for £105,000, and only once in the
last half-dozen years has less profit than
that been claimed. A 12| p.c. div., which
has been an annual event since 1948,
would call for £87,500, or £39,883 less
average net earnings for the last six
years.
At £lB 10s. the existing £5-paid shares
are worth 745. per £1 unit. After
exercising the rights to the new issue,
and allowing for brokerage, the net cost
would be approximately 595., giving the
rights a theoretical value of 38s. 2d. The
return at 595. would be 4.2 p.c. on a 12£
p.c. div. basis, or 5 p.c. should the 15 p.c.
distribution be continued. Including the
new issue, as well as the reserve for
unexpired risks, net tangible cover is
68s. Id. per £1 share.
The bulk of the underwriting con-
tracts are written in Australia and
New Zealand, and have been for the last
90-odd years. Now the co. is beginning
to widen the spread of its net. A sub-
stantial income has been developed in
the London marine and fire-reinsurance
markets, which were re-entered in 1948
and 1952 respectively, with satisfactory
results, and the Hong Kong agency busi-
ness, set up in 1951, is reported to be
developing nicely, and activities are
presently to be extended to South Africa
and India. About 32 p.c. of last term’s
profit was won in overseas markets.
Net premium income has increased
over fivefold during the last eight years.
The improvement last term was £390,715,
despite easing of insurable values,
especially in the marine market:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
mimns. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1950.. 090.677 420,570 615,850 38.2 p.c. 46.9 p.c.
1951.. 532,209 650,910 39.9 „ 48.8 „
1952.. 716,716 778,876 42.4 „ 46.1 „
1958.. 331 759,014 902,235 41.8 „ 49.7 „
1954.. 1,007,173 908,392 45.7 „ 41.2 „
Another pleasing feature is that the
year’s bigger business was written at
£8 10s. p.c. less cost. So, despite a rise
of £3 18s. p.c. in the loss rate —due
mainly to earthquake losses and crop
damage in South Australia —the gross
underwriting surplus was £136,399
stronger at £288,481, of which £156,286
(up £105,997) was added to the reserve
for unexpired risks, making it £951,103,
equal to 43.1 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, which is more than is usually
considered adequate for the purpose.
The net underwriting surplus was thus
£132,195 (up £30,402), to which interest,
rents, etc., contributed a further £53,401
(up £8919), making the net amount avail-
able for distribution £185,596 (up
£39,321):
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951. .101,546 12+p.c. = 62,500 1 2 9,046 1,128,283
To staff fund, £lO,OOO )
To unexpired risks, £141,840 .. 1,270,123
1952. , 93,789 12+ p.c, = 62,500 1 ooq i 901 419
To staff fund, £lO,OOO . . 5 1, * !y1,41/
To unexpired risks, £50,289 .. 1,341,701
1953. .146,275 12+ p.c. = 62,500 + «<, 7175 1 415 475
To staff fund. £lO,OOO. . j 78,7 ' 5 1,415,470
To unexpired risks, £156.286 .. 1,571,762
1954. .185.596 15 p.c.= h 75,000 ) 100,596 !,672,358
To staff fund, £lO,OOO )
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £951,103 at
30/9/’54.
The £185,596 was 37.1 p.c. on the half-
million of capital (26.4 p.c. underwriting
and 10.7 p.c. interest, etc.) compared
with 29.2, 18.7 and 20.3 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The 15 p.c.
distribution thus called for less than half
the available profit.
Policyholders and shareholders are
both well protected:
1952. 1958. 1954.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Reserve .. . . 1,291,413 1,415,476 1,672,358
Provision for claims 163,399 193,365 324,671
Creditors* .. 479,763 432,509 847,554
Final divs., etc. .. 41,250 41,250 53,750
£2,475,825 £2,582,600 £2,898,333
Freehold, etc. .. 450,208 550,971 717,869
Shares subsidiary 39,758
Govt, deposits .. 98,961 98,961 101,668
Shares, debentures 84,758 119,758 80,000
Mortgages .. 511,012 563,656 551,274
Cash, bonds, debtors 1,330,886 1,249,254 1,407,764
£2,475,825 £2,582,600 £2,898,333 ’
* Includes provision for taxation.
The large holding of cash, etc., was
strengthened by £158,510, and purchase
of branch premises, etc., sent freeholds,
etc., up by £166,898, and a property-
holding subsidiary was formed in
connection with premises in overseas
centres.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
NOT only did this Victorian spinning
and knitting co. stand up surpris-
ingly well to the jolt the industry
received in 1951-52, due to the sharp fall
in raw-wool prices, heavy imports and
tightening of credit, but net earnings have
since more than doubled, and the ord.
div., which had been lowered from 12+
p.c. to 6i p.c. following the one-for-one
bonus share-issue in 1950, and then
dropped to 3i px. in 1952, was restored
to 6i p.c. again in 1953 and raised to 8£
p.c, for the year to June 30 last.
Still, the market for the co.’s f.-p. Bs.
ords, has remained sluggish, due partly
to internal technical factors and partly
to economic trends in the industry. At
7s. 9d. (7s. 2d. a year ago and 7s. 3d. 12
months before that) the immediate return
is 8.5 p.c. on an 8J- p.c, div. basis. The
£l9 p.c. prefs. (a reminder of the dear-
money days of the early 1920’5) at 255.
yield 7.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£3 10s. 6d. 9 p.c. prefs. and 16s. sd. ords.
The technical factors are the gearing of
the capital structure and the fact that
some of the hosiery plant at one of the
branch mills is out of date and is to be
scrapped, because its products are not
competitive with similar goods made on
modern machines. New plant for the
manufacture of full-fashioned nylon
hosiery is to be installed before the end
of 1956, and is expected to fill the gap
in turnover which will result for the
scrapping. Also replacement of some of
the remaining plant is expected to call
for “considerable outlay” in the near
future. It is too early yet to say whether,
or to what extent, shareholders are likely
to be asked to assist.
Current economic trends include a
slight easing of consumer demand,
increased competition from lower-cost
overseas producers, to help meet which
local manufacturers have asked for more
tariff-protection, and the drift in wool
prices, which have fallen by about 20 p.c.
since June last for average 60’s quality.
Last term buoyant trading conditions
pushed turnover to the second-highest
level in the co.’s history, price-fluctua-
tions in the raw-wool market were mild,
and operated to the co.’s advantage, and
operating costs were steadier. After
setting aside £54,625 (up £2473) for depre-
ciation, £143,250 (up £57,250) for taxa-
tion, £15,000 for long-service leave and
£50,000 as a buffer against fluctua-
tions in wool prices, the board figured net
earnings £43,770 stronger at £170,705:
, —Dividends—,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 12+ p.c. serves. serves.*
1949.. 76,531 36,000 10,066 30,465 350,079
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 340.079
Asset revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 440,079
Reserves capitalised, £80,527 .. 359.552
6i p.c.
1950.. 78,682 86,000 10,066 32,616 392.168
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 382.168
9 & 5 p.c. 6+ p.c. f
1951.. 89,494 53,500 10,066 25,928 408,096
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. • • 398,096
3+ p.c.
1952.. 78,537 63,500 15,236 9,801 407,897
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 402,897
Capital profits, £9151 .. .. 412,048
6+ p.c.
1953. . 126,935 53,500 30,472 42,963 455,011
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. •• 445,011
Capital profit, £1553 .. .. •• 446,564
8+ p.c.
1954.. 170,705 51,417 40,629 78,659 525,223
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 515,223
* Excluding depreciation reserves, now £503,702.
After paying the pref. divs. (£51,417)
enough remained to show 24.4 p.c. on the
£487,548 of ord. capital as against 15,
5.1, 22.3 and 26.5 p.c. back to 1950. That
leaves out of the reckoning a profit of
£1553 on sale of fixed assets, as well as a
further £16,437 of profit on sale of


Insurance Supervision
RAWIRINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET. SYDNEY.
Phones; BU 3446. BU 3446, BU 1409,
IA VINA S
FOR
w
(AND SMART MEN)
17-Jewelled Swiss Masterpieces
The trend decrees daintier
watches for Ladies—larger
watches for Men, Be in
the fashion—wear Lavina
—Ladies from £l4/15/-*
bands extra. Gents from
£l3/15/-.
lAVM
THE CHOICE OF MILLIONS
L 29.71
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Bapld Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Mrs. Billy Graham
tells the story
When American evangelist
Billy Graham landed in Eng-
land, the entire press scorned
and jeered him —yet in three
months he’d stirred Britain to
its core, helped thousands
find the way to Christ.
In December Reader’s Digest,
read the deeply moving letters
in which Billy’s wife described
his history-making crusade to
her parents. Fascinating word-
picture of the fiery preacher
who is to visit Australia with-
in the next couple of years.
You’ll find many other stimu-
lating articles in December
Reader’s Digest, plus a heart-
warming, 20-page book conden-
sation of “The Gentle House.”
On sale now —one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents ana
Trade Marks. — A.dvt.
♦ ♦ * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Public Notices
I, OOSMAS COURBESANOS, of Greek
nationality, born at Ithaka, Greece, resi-
dent 30 years in Australia, now residing
at 173 Albion Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, ANDREOPOULOS ANTONIOS, of State-
less nationality, born Karakal, Roumania,
resident five years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 35 Georgina Street, Newtown, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act. 1948.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0 LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N- E - MANION, Manner.
Branches In all States Agencies In aU Country Centres
Urgent need for
COMMONWEALTH
DEVELOPMENT
Immense Potential of Outer Areas
“Greater industrial and business development throughout the
Sterling Area will enable the average standard of life ot its
many peoples to be lifted more rapidly—now an urgent need,
said the Chairman of The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.,
Mr. H. D. Giddy, at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, held in
Melbourne on Wednesday, 24th November.
“For in this direction,” continued Mr. Giddy, lies the
one vital means of strengthening the Sterling world and
of enabling it, from the economic point of view at least,
to play a role fully complementary to that of the North
American Continent in the future progress of the tree
peoples.
“I do not believe now that we in
the Sterling Area of our Common-
wealth of Nations should take any
pleasure in the restrictive and back-
ward economic thinking that coun-
tenances productive inefficiency be-
hind a wall of either excessive tariff
protection or Sterling inconvern-
bility. That way lies danger to the
British world.
PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY AND
STERLING CONVERTIBILITY
“Though there are many other
complicating factors, a big improve-
ment in the Commonwealth Sterling
Area’s productivity seems essential
to the permanent restoration of tiee
convertibility of Sterling—a major
goal and its attainment is of very
special concern to Australia s future
progress. For, these days, a strong
rate of improvement in production
is basic to the strength of the cur-
rency To no small extent, at
bottom, the relative weakness ot
Sterling vis-a-vis the United
Dollar reflects the difference m the
productive capacity of the British
area outside the North American
Continent. A rapid increase of pro-
ductive capacity in the Common-
wealth Sterling Area would bring
at least two major results. It would
reduce the dependence of the United
Kingdom itself on the Dollar area-
which is still heavy and has to be
largely covered by exports to Dollar
countries from the Colonies and
other parts of the British Common-
wealth-raise living standards, and
open new horizons for trade with the
rest of the world both on the cost
side and on the side of product
variety and usefulness.
OPPORTUNITY IN THE
“OUTER SECTIONS”
“A major improvement in the out-
put of the Commonwealth Sterling
Area is mainly dependent upon a
seizure of the immense opportunities
for expanding the potential that
exists in Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa, India, Pakistan the
Central African Federation and the
Colonies. This requires, inter alia, a
continuation of one of the histone
economic roles of the United King-
dom itself—the export of her people,
of her knowledge, and, as far as may
be practicable, of her capital, "bis
role could well be played to a much
greater degree, for, despite every-
thing, it is interesting to reflect on
the fact that the population of the
United Kingdom itself was nearly
51 millions last year, as against jnst
under 48 millions in 1939.
AUSTRALIA, A TYPICAL
EXAMPLE
“Australia, a typical ‘outer sec-
tion’ of the British Commonwealth,
needs people and capital for further
material increases in her productive
capacity. That our Continent _is
capable of these increases, ranging
over foodstuffs, a wide variety of
important raw materials and manu-
factures, is not in doubt. But their
speedy achievement requires more
people, more capital and reasonable
assurance of enlarging markets.
“Britain could supply the people,
to a large extent the market, and,
where appropriate, the knowledge.
But the grievous effects of two world
wars, and possibly, in the immediate
post-war years, concentration upon
achievement of ‘the welfare state,
have limited her ability to suppiy
capital. However, though obviously
quite inadequate for the task, moves
such as establishment of the _ Com-
monwealth Development Finance
Company last year are a help.
“At present the only source of
capital sufficient for really extensive
development of the outer sections
would appear to be the United States
of America. If forthcoming, such
capital would be profitably used and
would. I am sure, ultimately result
in rich rewards to the whole Eng-
lish-speaking peoples. The Double
Tax Agreement with the United
States of America, concluded last
December, should facilitate the
supply of American capital.
BRITAIN CAN ASSIST
“But Britain, also, could do more.
Good terms of trade given to Aus-
tralia would be, in a sense, equiva-
lent to a supply of capital. Grossly
unfavourable terms of trade —the
cheap food theory—are not conduc-
ive to genuine productive develop-
ment and economic growth in the
outer sections, as the inhibiting
factor is nearly always overseas
balance of payments.
“Also, events since the Ottawa
Agreement of 1932 have disturbed its
impact and thereby in some ways
produced anomalies in our overseas
trading. For example, in 1953-54 we
had a deficit of approximately £lOO
millions in our current balance with
the United Kingdom, but a surplus
of about £l5B millions with other
non-sterling countries outside the
Dollar area. We cannot risk loss of
valuable markets for our exportable
surpluses, and there may be a case
for re-examination of our trade
policies in the light of today s con -
dltions. Additionally, we must ever
keep in mind, of course, that the best
insurance that we will sell our goods
abroad is ability to compete on price
and quality, plus knowledge of and
aggressiveness in securing overseas
“Another means by which the pro-
ductive capacity of the outer sec-
tions could be greatly enlarged and
strengthened. I suggest for the ulti-
mate benefit of the whole, is the
transfer, holus-bolus, of industries,
and the people in them, from Britain.
Our Continent is one section emi-
nently suited to such a programme,
which would be entirely practicable,
and the proposal merits further close
attention by the responsible authori-
ties in both countries.
BUSINESS AT A HIGH LEVEL
“As I suggested when addressing
you last year, business activity has
been sustained at a high level. There
is evidence at the moment of short-
ages of labour and of some materials,
but generally supplies for the market
have been adequate and prices sta-
bility has been maintained.
“These conditions have been
achieved without stimulation from
Federal Government deficit financing,
as private investment and
public spending have continued
buoyant.
SHARP DETERIORATION IN
OVERSEAS TRADE BALANCE
“Following a minor addition of £9
millions to London Funds during the
last fiscal year, recent months have
seen a sharp deterioration in the
overseas balance of payments, owing
to a rapid rise in imports and some
weakening in our export markets for
wheat and certain other primary pro-
ducts. As usual, the Banking System
has taken the first impact of this
deterioration, bringing a marked
contraction in its over-all liquidity.
Once more Australia is faced with
difficulties on the overseas trade side,
and the Federal Government has
tightened restrictions on imports.
BANK’S PROGRESS CONTINUES
“Assets rose by £14,375,785 to
£271,225,159. a figure exceeded only
once in the ‘wool boom’ year.
Number of customers’ accounts
reached a new record, and branches
arid offices increased to 748 (3 in
London). Staff numbered 4,747, but
the year’s addition of 224 was only
about one-half of requirements, and
the Chairman reported that there are
rapid advancement opportunities for
young people joining the Bank.
“Gross earnings improved by
£640,309 to £7,641,940. but KlgTier
working expenses and taxation pro
visions absorbed an additional
£567,869. The balance, £72.440, lifted
Net Profit to £741,394. To meet ex-
panding business needs the Bank’s
Authorised Capital has been raised
to £20.000.000.”
scrapped plant which was trans-
ferred direct to depreciation
reserve.
Although the current term s
result might not equal the 1954
figure, the 8| p.c. div. appears to
be in no immediate danger, and,
subject to economic develop-
ments, the co.’s long-term pros-
pects should improve as plant-
replacement proceeds and the
redeemable pref. capital is
repaid.
Visibly the year’s improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,187,126) was £16,432:
1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,287,548 1,212,548 1,137,548
Reserves . . 820,245 910,525 1,018,925
Liabilities* 803,865 784,355 1,019,264
Total . . 2,861,658 2,907,428 3,175,737
Freeholds.. 201,025 202,751 210,014
Plant . . 732,369 749,628 759,333
Stocks .. 1,588,657 1,485,345 1,689,004
Book debts 309,804 454,792 489,987
Cash, etc... 29,803 ■ 14,91 g 27,399
Total . . 2,861,658 2,907,428 3,175,737
* Includes overdraft, tax reserve, divs.
payable, stock reserve and contribution
to staff fund, etc.
On fixed assets £16,968 more was
spent than was written off,
£203,659 net was added to the
book-value of stocks and £35,195
to debtors’ balances. Of the
growth of £234,909 in liabilities.
£119,026 was in respect of the
overdraft (£573,602, up £48,032)
and trade creditors (£166,564,
up £70,994). The reduction of
£75,000 in share capital repre-
sents repayment (second £25,000
annual contract sum, plus a
further £50,000) of the 5 p.c.
redeemable prefs., reducing the
amount outstanding to £250,000,
which has to be met not later
than June 30, 1960. The balance
of the share capital is in 400,000
£1 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,218,870 ords. of Bs. each.
Uranium
The Bureau of Mineral
Resources has drawn attention to
the fact that early calculations
of costs tended to present an
unreal picture of profit-earning
prospects for some uranium-
mining ventures. Many of these
calculations ignored two
important points, namely, that
the Atomic Energy Commission
will take not more than 20,000
tons of ore annually from any
one source at published prices,
and, that, until other plants are
erected, the ore must be readily
amenable to treatment by the
Rum Jungle plant.
Unless a co. is prepared to
erect its own treatment plant,
which would be a very costly
and in most cases an uneconomic
proposition, its immediate profit-
earning possibilities must be
assessed on the basis of ore sales
of not more than 20,000 tons
p.a. Among other factors to be
considered are average grade of
the ore-deposit, and mining,
treatment and transport costs.
When values are patchy, as they
mostly are where leaching is a
feature of the occurrence,
average grade of the deposit is
very difficult to determine. In
such cases it does not lend itself
to conventional methods of
calculation, and often involves a
large measure of guesswork.
The cost of transport, which
rises sharply as the distance of
the deposit from Rum Jungle
increases, is also an important
factor governing the grade of ore
that can be treated at a profit,
as the recent experience of
N.A.U.C. in connection with its
Sleisbeck leases clearly illustrates.
The Rum Jungle plant came
into operation on September 17
last, when uranium oxide was
produced in Australia for the
first time on a commercial scale.
The plant was erected, and is
operated, by Territory Enter-
prises Pty., a subsidiary of Con-
solidated Zinc Corp., for and
on behalf of the Atomic Energy
Commission. The capital outlay
involved has not been broadcast.
The individual cost of a dozen
or so uranium-concentrating
plants in South Africa range
from £1,600,000 to £4,900,000,
according to size.
Apart from the Northern
Territory, and the Government-
owned deposit at Radium Hill,
South Australia, interest now
centres mainly in the Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry field (N.Q.), where the
existence of rich specimen ore
has been reported from a number
of leases. Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.,
has offered to build and operate
a private treatment plant if
sufficient pay-ore is discovered
to warrant its construction.
A.O.E. is also making plans.
Tableland Tin Dredging
As soon as finances permit,
which should be at an early date,
the co. intends to pay an ord.
div. Last such distribution was
8 p.c. in December, 1950. Since
then the dredge has been trans-
ferred from the worked-out
Return Creek area to a new site
on near-by Smith’s Creek (N.Q.),
where there is over 12 years’
work ahead in ground bored to
average 11.20 z. t.o. per cubic
yard.
For the eight months to June
30 last the co. netted £82,286, of
which £25,600 was handed to
the prefs., thus cleaning their
slate, £4OOO was transferred to
pref. capital reserve and £20,000
was used to write down dredge
transfer account, reducing it to
£210,525.
There is £326,000 of capital to
feed in 80,000 £1 8 p.c. partici-
pating prefs., 240,000 £1 ords.
and 120,000 Is. deferreds, which
rank equally with the ords. for
divs. on a share-for-share basis.
Although the dredge will be
working in a low-grade area for
the next four or five months,
the London price of metallic tin
(£5724 10s. on November 26,
1954) remains at a very satisfac-
tory level, and the international
tin agreement, yet to be ratified
by member Governments,
promises to remove some of the
threat arising from world over-
production of the metal. Also,
when electric power becomes
available from the Tully Falls
(N.Q.) hydroelectric scheme
about the end of 1955, the co.
expects to save about £50,000
p.a. in operating costs.
The ords. recently fetched 275.,
deferreds 18s. and prefs. 295.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KEITH JAMES GIBSON late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that VERA DOROTHY VIOLET GIBSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3605 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 15th day
of March 1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY
& CO., Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
. WALES — In Divorce.
TAKE NOTICE that DORIS MAY LAWLOR has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3250 of 1953 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking the
exercise of the Court’s discretion in her favour under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the First day of February
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEORGE A. RAVES & POOLE. Soli-
citors, of 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar. ■
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR EDWARD COOK late of Beaconsfield
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that MARY PHILOMENA COOK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 951 of 1953 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 18th day of
March 1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. JOHNSON & O’NEILL,
Solicitors, 69 Hunter Street, Newcastle. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar _____
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JAMES GRINYER late of C/o M. R-
ORINYER 7 Goodhope Street Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE JANE GRINYER has filed
a Petition for a Divorce No. 2732 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1951
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 11th March 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from GORDON L.
BEARD. ESQUIRE, Solicitor, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Women's Letters
MCILIDCUKNC
Just before the sweets were served at
the dinner-dance given by the Consul-
General for Italy, Dr. Luca Dainelli, in
m.v. Australia, lights were extinguished
and waiters came in bearing trays, on
each of which was an illuminated red
cross, for the function had a dual purpose:
to honor the 40th birthday of Red Cross
and as his farewell-party (the Consul-
General returns shortly to Italy to take
up another post).
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
present with their house-guests, New
Zealand’s First Naval Member, Com-
modore Sir Charles Madden, and Lady
Madden, and General Lemuel C.
Shepherd, Jnr, (Commandant of the
U.S. Marine Corps), and Mrs.
Shepherd. Guests were received by Dr.
Dainelli and Capt. A. La Nasa, of the
Australia. Lady Brooks chose a bouffant
gown of palest-pink tulle, the wide skirt
and fitted bodice being appliqued with
white lace. Also in the official-party
were the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F. P. Selleck), Mr. Howard
Buchanan (representing Red Cross) and
Mrs. Buchanan, Mrs. Harold Holt
(whose short speech was the hit of the
night), T. F. Timson, Mrs. Basil Logus,
and Dr. H. Hreglich, of Lloyd Triestino
Shipping Co.
☆ ☆ ☆
Introduced by Lady Dixon, president
of the Arts and Crafts Society, Lady
Brooks opened the society’s annual
exhibition in the Lower Town Hall.
On display were pottery-ware, fine silver
hand-work, the wonderful, hand-tooled
book-bindings by one member, hand-
loomed scarves (Lady Brooks was
presented with one), towels and lengths
of material. Mrs. H. B. Farrington’s
display of flower-pieces was greatly
admired; one of the showpieces was
a tiny pottery-vase filled with realistic-
looking lily-of-the-valley.
☆ ☆ ☆
A distinguished audience attended the
gala opening of “La Vie Parisienne” at
the Princess, in which French singer Jean
Sablon stars.
The Governor was accompanied by
Lady Brooks (who wore a gown of
garnet - red French - romaine with white
Arctic-foxes) and their daughter, Mrs.
Robin Byrne (her ice-blue tulle gown
worn under lynx furs). The Prime
Minister was with Dame Pattie, whose
choice was a rose-colored silk sari-gown
starred with flowers and silver-mink
stole.
With Lord Mayor F. P. Selleck was
his wife, whose gown was of black
tulle. With the French Consul, M.
Cyrille le Bas, was Madame le Bas, her
choice a formal gown of black French-
crepe.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 120yds. of white tulle in
the lovely wedding-gown worn by Patricia
Constance, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Lowe, of Tyrone, St.
Ormond, when she was married to Ronald
Geoffrey Evans at St. Andrew’s, Brighton
(he is the only son of Cr. and Mrs. Bern-
ard Evans, of Orrong-road, Toorak). The
skirt of the gown was cut in five tiers
and the guipure-lace bodice was encrusted
with seed-pearls. A pearl coronet held
the three-tiered wedding-veil, and the
bride carried a bouquet of stephanotis.
Five pretty girls were the bride’s
attendants: Ethel Ham, Mary Evans,
Margot Evans, Joan Pryor and Susan
Beard, and Anne Bunting was flower-
girl. They wore bouffant gowns of white
nylon-tulle with the necklines edged with
guipure-lace flowers and seed-pearls.
They also wore coronets of lily-of-the-
valley and carried posies of the same
with red roses
For the reception at the New Alexander,
East St. Kilda, the bride’s mother chose
a gown of silver-grey guipure lace, with
the bodice highlighted with clusters of
pearls; her cap was of silver-grey
feathers. Mrs. Bernard Evans wore a
bouffant gown of green organza over
pink taffeta ; her tiny pink straw hat had
one large rose set at the back of the tilted
brim. The bridegroom’s grandmother,
Mrs. Lucy Evans, chose a gown of deep-
grey Chantilly lace worn with a matching
stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the late-afternoon party given at
No. 9 Darling-street, South Yarra, by
the New Zealand Joint Services liaison
staff, guests were welcomed by Capt,
G. R. Davis-Goff and his wife (she
wearing a frock of bronze chiffon with a
small black velvet hat), Wing-Commander
and Mrs. Ivan Mitchell (her pink silk
frock was patterned in a black lace
design), and Major Howard Jones and
Mrs. Jones (she in a frock of turquoise-
blue and silver lamd and silver-grey straw
hat).
Among the guests were Sir Sydney and
Lady Rowell; Air-Marshal J. P. J.
McCauley, his wife and daughter Anne;
Commodore and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan ;
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth McLean (her
frock of junior- blue silk-shantung worn
with a matching jacket and small white
hat); Mr, and Mrs. Norman Robinson
(the latter in navy chiffon frock which
had a rucked “lampshade” skirt); Air-
Marshal Sir Richard Williams and Lady
Williams (whose pretty hat was of white
% summer-felt wreathed with colorful
flowers).
Mrs. James Clark is the wife of
U.S. Assistant Air-Attache, Major Clark,
who is shortly going to a U.S. post. A
native of North Carolina, Mrs. Clark
has done quite a lot of landscape-
painting during the three years she and
her family have been here. She loves
sewing, too (making many of her clothes
and those of daughter Jamie), and also
interior-decorating and furnishing. A
small son, Timothy, completes the
family.
A hearty musical, “Paint Your Wagon,”
is a saga of the U.S. goldrush days. Gold-
diggers and music-hall girls combine with
the principals to make it a very colorful
presentation, and the gala opening gave
women an opportunity to wear their
loveliest gowns.
The Governor and Lady Brooks and
their daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne, were
present with members of the personal
staff. On arrival at Her Majesty’s they
were welcomed by Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Tait and Mr. John Tait. Lady Brooks
chose a gown of shimmering white satin,
with pink roses at the waist. They
matched a rose-pink satin stole. Mrs.
Byrne wore turquoise-blue tulles and a
matching stole. Mrs. Frank Tail’s choice
was a gown of tobac-brown plisse and
her stole was of brown-and-white-striped
chiffon. Miss Marion McPherson, who
was in the vice-regal party, chose a gown
of white chiffon patterned with widely-
spaced bands of grey coin-spotted chiffon.
srDNcy
Pastel-colored gowns characterised the
charmingly named Rainbow Ball, held in
the Rainbow-room of the Australia
Hotel in aid of the Fo6d for Babies’
Fund, Mrs. Ken Pointing, president of
the committee, set the note with her
lovely dress of pale-turquoise organza
over lilac, and Mrs. Neville Lynch, vice-
president, gave contrast with a ballerina
of misty-grey net and lace with steel
beading.
Other beautiful dresses were Mrs. Rex
Calloway’s French model, formed entirely
of petals shading from deep cream to
coffee-color; Mrs. George Wilson’s
bouffant yellow organdie with black
spots ; and a dress of watermelon-pink
organza worn by Jeannette Kennedy,
who was accompanied by Barry
Everingham.
The prize for the most beautiful dress
was won by Mrs. A. J. McSweeney,
whose pale-pink satin ballerina was
embroidered with drop-pearls and sprays
of opalescent sequins. Noted among the
dancers were Colonel and Mrs. Petrie,
Mr. and Mrs. lan Wilson, Mrs. Tom
Everingham, Major Glyn Hughes, Mr.
and Mrs. R. Simmons and Mr. and Mrs.
Maurice Cowley.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Women are much steadier than men.”
Thus Mr. Hamilton Howell, criticising
the Royal Empire Society’s schools’
public-speaking competitors at the finals.
But ’twas said with a twinkle of the eye,
and referred to the girls’ ability to stand
still while talking, instead of roaming
about, as boys do. Nevertheless boys
from Sydney High won the shield by an
overwhelming margin, and their repre-
sentatives, David Flint and Ronald May,
won both junior and senior boys’ sections.
Winner of the girls-over-16 section was
Lorna Nichison, of Burwood Home
Science High School, and winner of the
girls-under-16 section was Ann Duffey,
of Domremy Presentation Convent. Sub-
ject, “The Significance of the Royal Tour
for the People of Australia.”
☆ ☆ ☆
A concert unique in Sydney suburbia
was held last week at the Children’s Lib-
rary in Green’s Park, under the aegis of
Cammeray Music Group. Not only was
the programme devoted entirely to the
works of Australian composers but the
composers themselves were present, and
all of them live within a mile or two of
the park. They included the g.o.m. of
Australian music, Alfred Hill, and his
wife, Mirrie —represented by songs and
piano pieces; another husband-and-wife
team, Dulcie Holland and Alan Bellhouse,
who selected works for the keyboard and
for voice; Professor Charles Lambie
(who holds the Bosch Chair of Medicine
at Sydney University), with a most attrac-
tive sonata for piano and a stirring Scot-
tish ballad ; and Mr. Perrett, headmaster
of Cammeray School, with two simple
songs ideally suited to the fresh young
voices of his school choir. A packed
house of Australian-music lovers paid
tribute to the works of their fellow-
countrymen.
This charming study is of Joan
Nicholas, whose engagement to Malcolm
Hazell has been announced. Joan is the
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Nicholas, of Nebraska, Molong, and
Malcolm is the younger son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Hazell, of Pymble. Photo by
Dayne.
White, richly-scented flowers predom-
inated in the beautiful flower arrange-
ments with which members of the Garden
Club decorated Craigend, Darling Point,
the home of Mrs. Donald Smith, for their
reception last Friday. Magnolias in full
bloom and in bud, November-lilies com-
bined with delphiniums and hydrangeas
or with yellow lilies, and orange-blos-
som encircling oranges holding green
candles were among the many lovely
arrangements in the three reception-
rooms. One of the most beautiful vases
contained pale-pink and pale-green
orchids with curling stems of green
malucca balm. Mrs. Arthur Davis, pre-
sident of the Garden Club, and Mrs. Don-
ald Smith received the 200 guests, who
included Mrs. Russell Nash and Miss
Sheila Collett.
# # #
The Naughty Nineties Committee
raised £lO,OOO for the N.S.W. Institution
for Deaf, Dumb and Blind Children this
year, £5OOO being the net profit from the
ball. Expenses for this (and for another
£957 which will be distributed to different
charities for Christmas cheer) were only
£2OO. Mrs. W. J. Smith, president of
the committee, presented the cheque to
Mr. E. A. Park, president of the insti-
tution, at a cocktail-party. In apprecia-
tion, members of the institution’s board
gave Mrs. Smith a diamond brooch and
made her an honorary life-governor of
the board,
☆ ☆ *
Mr. Frank Eyre, manager of the
Oxford University Press in Melbourne,
and novelist Tom Hungerford flew to
Sydney for the annual dinner of the
English Association, at which they were
speakers. Association president R. G.
Howarth and .Mrs. Howarth welcomed
the guests, who included Miss Barbara
Jefferis, the Ernest Burbridges, Mr. C. R.
Bull and Mr. James Devaney. Miss
Jefferis proposed the toast of Australian
literature, and Miss Thelma Herring
responded to the toast of the English
Association. There was some lively dis-
cussion of Australian writing and publi-
cation, to which Mr. George Ferguson
contributed. A special toast was drunk
to the original members of the associa-
tion, Dame Mary Gilmore, Miss
Dorothea Mackellar, Miss F. Earle
Hooper, Miss Ruth Bedford and others.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many radio personalities, including
Dick Fair and Lloyd Berrell, will appear
at the fete in aid of the National Opera
Company to be held at Admiralty House
next Saturday afternoon, December 4.
Muriel Steinbeck is president of the
organising-committee, and Tom Woods
will be S. Claus. The opening words
will be spoken by Mrs. C. R. McKerihan,
and among the afternoon’s features will
be dancing on the lawn by members of
the British Ballet Company.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two Christmas-parties for the Over-
seas League. The first is to be at the
Millions Club at 8 p.m. on December 6,
and all members will bring a toy for the
children of the Sydney Day Nurseries.
The second will be at the League’s
rooms at 5.30 p.m. on December 14,
when the guests-of-honor will be the
Fulbright Scholars now in Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Mrs. Russell Nash opened Muriel
Elliott’s exhibition of flower-paintings at
the Grosvenor Galleries she said it was
the first time she had ever performed a
function of this kind. Her very graceful
speech was introduced by Mrs. H. A.
Showers, and both Mrs, Nash and Mrs.
Showers received a charming little paint-
ing from Mrs. Elliott as a memento.
There was a large and gay-looking
gathering of friends and art-lovers at the
opening, and the galleries looked most
attractive with an interesting flower-
arrangement of green bamboo and green
cymbidium orchids.


PUBLIC SERVICES OF
'
COMMONWEALTH TERRITORIES
Papua and New Guinea
VACANCIES
• Agronomists • Agricultural Officers • Assistant Agricultural Officers
• Assistant Animal Husbandry Officer • Field Assistant • Produce
Inspector • Plant Pathologist • Entomologists • Stock Inspector • Soil
Survey Officer • Veterinary Officer.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
STOCK AND FISHERIES
Assistant Agricultural
Officer (20 positions)
£5Bl-£1.112 p.a.
Qualifications: Diploma of
approved Agricultural Col-
lege. Irrespective cf age,
applicants who have had
3 years’ Post-Diploma ex-
perience in the Territory
Service or 4 years’ elsewhere
will receive commencing
salary of £968 p.a.
Duties: Extension duties;
supervise special projects;
technical duties for specialist
divisions.
Agricultural Officer,
Grade I (6 positions)
£968-£1,304 p.a.
Qualifications: (a) Degree
in Agriculture, or (b) Dip-
loma in Agriculture of
approved Agricultural
College, plus suitable agri-
cultural experience, prefer-
ably in the tropics.
Duties: As for Assistant
Agricultural Officer; main-
tain agricultural stations.
Accommodation: Married
accommodation (if required)
is available for two
appointees.
Veterinary Officer,
Grade I
£1,208-El ,304 p.a.
Veterinary Officer,
Grade II
£1,352-£1,472 p.a.
Veterinary Officer,
Grade 111
£1.442-E1,532 p.a.
(Several positions in each
grade.)
Qualifications: Degree in
Veterinary Science. Sound
knowledge disease control,
animal husbandry. Post-
graduate experience essential
for Grade II and 111
vacancies.
Duties: Disease control,
animal husbandry, quaran-
tine work, stock manage-
ment. Administrative duties
relevant to position.
Accommodation: Married
accommodation available
immediately for two appoin-
tees in Lae and Rabaul.
Assistant Animal
Husbandry Officer
£968-£1,112 p.a.
Qualifications: Diploma of
approved Agricultural Col-
lege or equivalent or higher
qualification. Knowledge
principles of animal hus-
bandry, animal nutrition,
pasture improvement, stock
and station management.
Duties: Implement field
trials and experimental
work. Maintain records on
animal breeding, nutrition
and production.
Stock Inspector,
Grade ll x
£1,112-El .208 p.a.
Qualifications: Sound know-
ledge disease control, quaran-
tine procedures, meat and
product inspections essential.
Diploma of approved Agri-
cultural College desirable.
Duties: Disease control and
eradication, supervise quar-
antine and stock movements,
slaughtering.
Agronomist, Grade I
(5 positions)
E968-E1.304 p.a.
Agronomist, Grade 111
£1.442-E1.532 p.a.
Qualifications: Degree in
Agriculture or equivalent.
For Grade 111, also experi-
ence agronomic research,
wide experience in commer-
cial rubber planting.
Eligibility: Non-British sub-
jects will be considered for
Grade 111 position.
Duties: Grade I experi-
mental crop work.
Grade lll—design and
supervision agronomic inves-
tigations on rubber. Organi-
sation and supervision estab-
lishment clonal seed gardens
and rubber budwood
supplies.
Location: Grade I—various
experimental stations. Mar-
ried accommodation avail-
able within 12 months for
three appointees at Keravat
and Aiyura.
Grade lll—Bisianumu via
Port Moresby, where married
accommodation available
immediately.
Entomologist, Grade I
(2 positions)
£968-£1.304 p.a.
Entomologist, Grade II
E1.304-ET.412 p.a.
Qualifications: Degree in
Agriculture or equivalent.
For Grade 11, considerable
post-graduate work in ento-
mological research and
economic entomology.
Duties: Pest control experi-
ments, bionomic studies of
pests.
Location: New Guinea
Region. (Grade II) married
accommodation probably
available within twelve
months.
Plant Pathologist,
Grade I
£968-£1,304 p.a.
Plant Pathologist,
Grade 111 (Female)
£1,288-El .378 p.a.
Qualifications: Degree in
Agriculture or equivalent.
Grade I—specialisation in
pathology desirable. Grade
lll—post graduate plant
pathological research.
Eligibility: Single females
under 40 years.
Duties: Investigation and
control plant diseases, plant
pathological identifications.
Location: Kcravat (Grade I),
where married accommoda-
tion probably available with-
in twelve months. Port
Moresby (Grade III).
Soil Survey Officer,
Grade I
£968-£l ,304 p.a.
Qualifications: Degree in
Agriculture or equivalent,
major in Soil Science
desirable.
Duties: Soil surveys, prepare
maps.
Field Assistant
£1,040 p.a.
Qualifications: Practical
experience in mechanised
agricultural production.
Mechanical trade qualified-
tions and experience in
developmental or experi-
mental programmes an
advantage.
Duties: Assist professional
officers in production trials,
and experiments. Assist
instal and maintain crop
machinery.
Accommodation: Married
accommodation available at
Bainyik, Sepik District.
Produce Inspector
£1,112-£1.208 p.a.
Qualifications: Extensive ex-
perience in tropical crop
production, particularly
coconut industry.
Duties: Inspection and grad-
ing of export production in
accordance with Territory
law.
GENERAL INFORMATION
SALARY: Rates quoted are actual and include cost
of living and territorial allowance. Married officers
receive an additional £lOO p.a. Advancement within
ranges by annual increment.
Appointees as Assistant Agricultural Officer (except
as provided under “qualifications”) and Assistant
Animal Husbandry Officer under 24 years of age
are paid as follows —
at 18 years—£sBl per annum
„ 19 years—£674 „ „
„ 20 years—£766 „ „
„ 21 years—£B72 „ „
„ 22 years—£B96 „ „
„ 23 years—£92o „ „
ELIGIBILITY: Except where otherwise stated, British
male subjects under 45 years.
APPOINTMENT: Permanent, subject to satisfactory
probationary period.
LOCATION: All appointees are required to serve in
any part of the Territory. Where location is stated
it refers to headquarters or initial posting only.
ACCOMMODATION: Single accommodation avail-
able. Unless stated, married accommodation is
unlikely to be available under two years.
SEPARATION ALLOWANCE: Payable at discretion
of Territory Administration and designed to com-
pensate for added expense of married appointees
obliged to maintain family outside Territory.
LEAVE: Three months after 21 months in Territory.
TAXATION: Income derived by residents of Territory
from sources within Territory is not at present
taxable under Commonwealth legislation.
FURTHER INFORMATION; Information handbooks
on the Public Service of the Territory are available
from any official country Post Office, District
Employment Office, Commonwealth Public Service
Inspector or from the Department of Territories,
Canberra or Sydney. Other enquiries to the Depart-
ment of Territories, Canberra.
APPLICATIONS: SUBMIT on prescribed form avail-
able from offices mentioned above.
TO Secretary, Department of Territories, Canberra,
A.C.T., by 24th December, 1954.
T0V.i9.i43.1i4
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Borovanskys
The current Borovansky pro-
gramme at Sydney Empire
opened with a wretched
“Sylphides” they seemed,
almost, to paddle their way
through it —and went on to a
distinguished performance of
“Symphonic Fantastique” in
which Peggy Sager gave quite
the best dancing of the whole
season.
At any time the mechanics of
Miss Sager’s dancing are a study
in precision and graceful con-
trol, and she uses her hands and
arms in a way that seems beyond
the rest of the present company ;
when she clothes those
mechanics with as much
emotion as she did the other
evening one gets a moment of
brilliance which serves as a
standard for a long time.
One had remembered Tou-
manova in “Symphonic Fantas-
tique”—very lovely in the earlier
movements and then dancing the
Witches’ Sabbath with wonderful
abandon, her streaming black
hair and distorted features mak-
ing an impression not easily for-
gotten. Now, one remembers
Miss Sager—ineffably tender and
moving, and then, in the whirl-
ing, mounting, mad phantasma-
goria of ghouls, vampires, spec-
tres and furies, doing all that
Toumanoya did and adding an
intention of cruelty and evil
almost terrible in its intensity.
“Pineapple Poll,” a free adap-
tation of one of Gilbert’s Bab
Ballads with some Sullivan
music, wound-up the evening,
with Kathleen Gorham dancing
the Bumboat Woman as though
Gilbert had written it for her.
Her warm, provocative and
amusing style is something
she has made peculiarly hers,
and no one even looks like
imitating it.
Paul Grinwis sharpened his
clean, crisp dancing (as Captain
Belaye) with a good sense of
humor, and John Auld (as
Jasper, the Pot Boy at the Steam
Packet) again claimed the
honors with dancing that was
sharp and sensitive and as deli-
cate in its way as the exquisite
miming of Jean-Louis Barrault
in that admirable French film
“Les Enfants du Paradis.”
“The Apocalypse”
Eugene Goossens amassed
four choirs totalling around 400
voices, an orchestra of about 90,
the organ, five soloists and six
off-stage brasses for the world
premiere of his oratorio at
Sydney Town Hall.
Nowhere along its hour-and-
three-quarter length did Mr.
Goossens succeed in fitting to
the splendid words of the Reve-
lation of St. John music of com-
parable worth. In his orchestral
writing he seems forced to draw
heavily on tone-color, but that
device can never make up for
lack of strong themes.
In the work allotted the solo-
ists the net result was that it
comprised, except for some brief
concerted pieces, long, dull
recitatives. The bulk of this fell
on Robert Payne, as John the
Evangelist, and it says much for
his stamina that not until the
final stages did his bass-baritone
acquire a few ragged edges. The
other soloists Allan Ferris,
Stewart Harvey, Marjorie Con-
ley and Patricia de Burgh—had
a comparatively easy time.
The impact of the massed
choirs was at times shattering,
due partly to the shortcomings
of the choristers and partly to
the combined crushing weight of
orchestra and voices. The qual-
ity of the writing for the choir
certainly didn’t justify the use
of such a huge force.
Mr. Goossens’s skill as an
orchestrator, especially in his
weaving of strings and wood-
winds, is conceded, but there
were times when excessive use
of brass and tympani evoked
fears for the safety of the Town
Hall roof.
❖ ❖ ❖
Vic. Symphony Orchestra
Back from Sydney, the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra de-
ployed on to the platform at
Melbourne Town Hall with
Walter Susskind beaming and
smiling in his most expansive
manner. He was on famiilar
ground in the first part of his
programme, which dealt with
the legendary lore and national
aspirations of his own country.
The three Czech poems of
Smetana were full of the charm
of Bohemia’s forests and
meadows, and there was a touch
of humor in the picture of the
Amazonian heroine Sarka.
Anton Dermota, the short,
stocky tenor from the Vienna
State Opera, sang an aria from
Mozart and two from Wagner.
His voice is lovely, his tone
splendid, and although behind it
all is the faint throb of the
Italian manner, like a distant
drum, this is hardly noticed in
the richness of his singing.
* * ❖
“Better a Millstone”
In her latest play, “Better a
Millstone,” presented by the
New Theatre, Sydney, Australian
author Mona Brand offers a
comment on trashy cornice,
gangster - films, overcrowded
schoolrooms and the custom of
grading children into different
schools at the age of 11. Most
of all she lays the blame for
the making of delinquents on
authorities who, she seeks to
show, will not reform these
matters because “there is a profit
in it.”
The play, based on an actual
case of a 19-year-old boy who,
having encouraged a younger
boy to kill a policeman, was
himself tried and executed for
murder, gives a sympathetic
picture of an ordinary family
stricken by tragedy and, what-
ever the validity of the argu-
ment, the author makes her
points clearly, lightening the
tension from time to time with
touches of homely humor, and
building up from one climax to
another with some skill.
As a dramatic tract it is quite
successful, but the characters,
though natural, are all stock
types, and there is no feeling that
action flows from personality or
that the human mind is a
complex and curious thing.
Artbursts
George Bell
George Bell, who did more
than any other teacher to bring
modern styles to Melbourne, is
showing some of his own efforts
along with those of 12 of his
former pupils at the Peter Bray
Gallery. There is a heavy quality
of paint about his “Farm Build-
ings,” and a lack of sensitiveness
in the texture of his fiowerpieces
which is repeated in the work of
younger pupils like Roma
Thompson, Dorothy Braund,
Barbara Brash and Edwin
Robinson and in the swirls of
color in Alan Warren’s “Red
Figure.”
Russell Drysdale, George Bell’s
most distinguished pupil, is
represented by a large canvas,
“Emus in a Landscape,” consist-
ing of a heap of twisted iron,
three emus, a vast stretch of
desert and a vaster stretch of
cloudless sky stretching into
infinity. Paint is used here much
more imaginatively than in most
of the works on show, but the
idea would have been given
better if the emus and the old
iron had been realised as well as
the sky and the desert.
■£♦
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney:
Paintings, gouaches and drawings
by Donald Friend. There are
some very sensitive negro studies,
graceful and relaxed and touched
with colors to match the mood.
The paintings are mainly heavy,
but some of the drawings have
a good deal of charm, particu-
larly “A Tuscan Mill,” with the
mill rearing like a watchtower
through a yellow-grey haze, and
“Lambeth Palace,” with an
upward light breaking through
storm-clouds and giving the
dingy fa9ade that unreal pink-
gold radiance which angophoras
take on at sunset.


HICH TENSION
By
A. E. Sturqes
DOWN in the D.C. pit it is
close and dark. Thumbs
hooked in white raincoat-
belt, brown hat back-
tilted, cigarette jutting from
thought - pouted lips, legs
straddled, Swann stands peering
up at the D.C. terminals.
Tony Clarke smiles to himself.
Eddie bloody Swann—Holly-
wood engineer. Take anyone in ;
anyone, that is, who hadn’t
served his time with him, sat
through night-school with him,
worked under him, seen through
him.
Tony turns, calls dryly to his
mate. “Mitch! Hey, Mitch! .. .
The torch.” He climbs three
rungs of the pit-ladder, hooks his
torch-arm round the highest
rung, scrapes with his knife a
tarnished terminal. The clean
copper gleams in the torchlight.
“Yes, Eddie, they’re marked.
C 2, this one.”
“Good. Makes it simple. Just
a matter of following the circuit
diagram.”
“Yeah.” Tony grins wryly in
the dark. Simple: just follow
the diagram. White lines on a
blueprint. The cable three inches
diameter, lead-covered and steel-
tape-armored. On the blueprint
no cable-ends to prepare or lugs
to sweat, no seized-up bolts, slip-
ping spanners or knuckles grazed
on concrete. On the diagram the
cable laid swift as the pencil
moves along the scale—no
jockeying round bends, strain-
ing over supports, matching to
terminals . . .
“Yeah,” he says. “Makes it
simple. We got the cable?”
Swann answers briskly, a man
on top of his job. “Yep—in the
bulk-store. The drum’s marked ;
and so are the boxes of lugs and
cleats,”
“Good.”
SWANN takes a packet of
cigarettes from his pocket,
offers Tony one, taps his own on
his thumbnail half a dozen times
and lights it from his butt. He'
inhales deeply, then blows a
stream of almost invisible blue
smoke past the end of his nose,
all with the air of one perform-
ing an important operation.
“Oh, sorry.” He pulls out a
silver lighter and flicks it on as
Tony fumbles for a match. He
taps ash from his cigarette, then
looks up from under his eye-
brows at Tony, his eyes narrowed
and mouth twisted in thought.
“Better get all the measure-
ments you want while you’re up
here, Tony. Then you can cut
the lengths of cable in the store,
and take them to the shop to set
them and sweat the lugs on.
Then all you’ll have to do when
you bring them up is bolt them
on.”
“Mm.” Tony looks thoughtful.
Swann peers at him in the half-
light and waits for him to speak.
Tony smokes in silence.
“What’s the matter? See any
snags?”
Tony answers reluctantly.
“Well . . . yes. I reckon it’d be
better to bring the drum up here.
Be easier to bend the cable before
cutting it short.”
Swann lifts his chin. “Don’t
trust your own measurements?”
“Oh, I wouldn’t say that.”
“You could set the short
lengths?”
“I suppose so. They’d be
pretty stiff, though.”
“Not as stiff as pipe ; and you
can set that.”
“Yes —but the cable’s easier
to damage.”
Swann pulls on his cigarette,
stamps hard on one foot, jerks
up his chin and looks at Tony
defiantly.
“Dammit all, Tony, the cable’s
well protected. There’s steel-tape
under the lead, don’t forget.”
“I know.”
“Be some job dragging that
big drum up, too. That lead
cable’s damned heavy stuff.”
“They got the converters them-
selves up here, Eddie.”
“Yes, in bits.” Swann smiles.
“Damn’ big bits, the rotors.”
Tony grins back.
Swann’s mouth tightens. He
looks hard at Tony ; even in the
half - light Tony sees the
triumphant flicker of power. He
laughs inwardly. Good old
Eddie: Humphrey Bogart call-
ing. Well, come on, shoot,
Bogart.
“You don’t think you can do
it, then?”
“Sure, Eddie, 1 cap do it.
Only”
“Well, do it, will you? That’s
the way I want it.”
Sure, Bogart, sure. You’re the
bawss.
“Right-oh, Eddie.”
Swann pulls down the brim
of his chocolate-brown hat, digs
one hand deep in the white
raincoat-pocket, and swings
along purposefully down the air-
duct. Tony watches until he is
out of sight, then turns to Mitch.
He lifts eyebrows and shoulders,
spreads his hands in a gesture of
resignation. He grins, and speaks
from the corner of his mouth.
“Pass the sketch-book, will
you, Gable, And the three-foot
rule. We’re on the jahb,”
CJ CREWING the vice a shade
tighter, Tony pulls on the
end of the cable. It gives, in the
wrong place; Tony swears
softly.
“Give us a push, Mitch, Just
there ; you push there and I’ll try
to make her give lower down.
Push steadily, don’t jerk. And
stop soon’s I give the word —
we don’t want to ruin it.”
, The cable slowly bends. Tony
watches it closely, anxiously.
“Whoa!” He peers at where it
emerges from the protective pine
cleat. “B it! The lead’s
starting to kink. Thought it
would. What the hell are we
going to do now?” He scowls
at the cable. Mitch watches his
face with concern.
“How ’bout I rasp a bit more
from the cleat? Make the edge
a bit rounder?”
Tony nods gloomily.
“Might help. Pity Mr. I-am
Swann didn’t have to put his own
lousy ideas into practice.”
Mitch nods agreement, and
sets to work rasping the cleat.
Tony sits watching him moodily.
They set the cable and cleat in
the vice again. Just as Tony
prepares to put his weight on the
end of it, Mitch hisses: “Old
Doggie—making down here.”
Tony peeps from under his
eyebrows; Carson, the chief
electrical engineer, is bearing
down on them, puffing out huge
clouds of smoke, lifting his feet
high in a peculiar gait as if step-
ping over a succession of
obstacles. He pulls up short at
the vice, puffing like a loco, at a
siding, and grunts a greeting. A
frown crosses his face, he bends
closer. He straightens, takes his
pipe from his mouth.
“Clarke,” he says, and makes
the name itself an accusation.
“What’s that?”
“Cable for the D.C. terminals
of number-four rotary, sir.”
Carson glares. “Can’t you see
you’re kinking that cable, man?”
“Yes, sir.”
“That’s no good,
Clarke, no good
at all.”
Tony touches
the pine cleat.
“Doing our best
to prevent it, sir.”
Carson is not
impressed; h e
scowls, turns his
head this way
and that, as if looking for some-
thing he can legitimately kick.
Mitch clears his throat anxiously.
“How much set do you have to
put in it, Clarke?”
Tony passes him the sketch.
“Good God, man, you’ll never
set it that short. Not without
ruining the lead.”
Tony is silent. Mitch stares at
him, imploring him to explain.
Carson points his pipe at Tony.
“You think you can, Clarke?”
“No, sir.”
“And can’t you think of a
better way of doing it?”
“Yes.”
“How?”
“Sweat a lug on one 1 end. Bolt
it to the block. Roll a good
length from the drum, set the
cable in position, cut it, and then
take it off and sweat the other
lug on.”
Carson nods. “Just what I’d
do myself. Why aren’t you?”
Tony shrugs. “Mean lugging
the heavy drum up to the
station.”
Carson snorts. “Good Lord,
man, what’s wrong with that?
Got trucks, haven’t we? And
cranes . . . and men? And
dammit, Clarke, we got the
rotaries up there, didn’t we?”
Tony risks a wink at Mitch.
“In bits, sir.”
Carson glares at him. “You’d
better stop fooling about with
these short lengths, Clarke,
Waste of good cable. Make
arrangements to have the drum
taken up.”
“Right-oh, sir.” Tony coughs.
“Er, what about Eddie, sir?
He’s in charge of the job.”
“Eddie? You mean Mr.
Swann, I suppose, Clarke. I’ll
see him —you go right ahead,”
When Carson has gone, Tony
screws up the sketch viciously
and throws it on the forge fire.
“Pack up, Mitch.”
Mitch stares at him, Tony
looks at him, speaks sharply.
“What’s the matter, Mitch? On
strjke or something?”
Mitch stutters with indigna-
tion. “Why didn’t you tell him
Swannie made you do it that
way? Now he thinks you’re the
mug. What we’re going to do
now is just what you told
Swannie, Old Doggie’ll think
we’re just a couple of no-hopers.
Strike a light, anyone’d think
Swannie was your best cobber.
Ain’t frightened of him, are
you?”
Tony smiles. “No, Mitch,” he
says quietly. “I’m not frightened-
of him. But I’m not putting any-
one in—not even Mister bloody
Swann.”
T UNCH-TIME, and Tony
strolls along the seventy-six-
foot level in the sunshine. Now
and then he dips into his lunch-
tin for a sandwich, and munches
with relish as he looks about him.
At his left rises the roasting-
plant, four stories of grimy
galvanised-iron; at his right,
over the top of the acid-tanks,
he can see the river—its surface
today is bright with points of
light—and beyond it a narrow
shelf of yellow sandstone shore,
and low hills sparsely covered
with red-tipped Risdon-gums.
He passes the end of the
roaster —and there, in a new
khaki shirt bulging with studied
carelessness above well-pressed
grey flannels, stands Eddie
Swann, looking with obvious
satisfaction at a new steel
terminal-tower for the high-
tension line feeding the sub-
stations placed at convenient
points about the plant.
Tony’s sandwich suddenly
feels dry in his mouth; he
swallows with difficulty, then,
turning his head with apparent
aimlessness, he walks past, staring
out over the cooling-towers to
the river. He walks a dozen
paces, and is congratulating
himself and thinking of another
sandwich, when Swann calls.
“Tony! Hi, Tony!”
The call is too loud to be
ignored. Reluctantly Tony turns.
Swann beckons vigorously. Tony
walks back to the tower. Swann
looks at the tin under his arm.
“Having lunch?”
“No, finished.”
Swann nods at the tower.
“What do you think of it?”
Watched closely by Swann,
Tony studies the tower, an open,
straight-line pattern of freshly
painted steel long, slender
angle-iron legs, zigzag bracing,
massive concrete blocks anchor-
ing the tower to earth, gleaming
copper cables curving away from
strings of brown porcelain
insulators*
“Mm, looks strong enough.”
Swann suppresses a smile.
“Should be. I designed it for
maximum wind-velocity, future
duplication of cables, and for the
whole electrical gang to climb
over it all at once.”
Tony laughs, then tilts his
head to look at the three isolat-
ing-switches high up above the
cables, spanning the tower from
front to back. “How do you
operate those switches, Eddie?”
Swann frowns. “Usual way —
wooden operating-stick with a
metal hook.”
Tony smiles. “I should have
said, where from?”
Swann points up. “See there,
at the bottom of the first panel,
out this side, the two channels
covered with a strip of chequer-
plate? Mightn’t look it from
here, but it’s the best part of a
couple of feet wide.”
“Mm.” Tony still looks up.
Swann watches him. Tony
shakes his head slowly.
“What’s up?”
“I don’t like it. That walk-
way.”
“Why?”
“Easy for a man to slip off.”
“It’s chequer-plate . . . And
he’d have the cross-bracing
against his back.”
“Mm. But if he’s at the middle
switch the cross-bracing’s pretty
high.”
“Not as high as a man.”
“What if he stumbles?”
Swann laughs. “You might as
well say, what if he falls off the
ladder on his way up.”
“Yes, but he’s got the risk of
falling off the ladder and off the
walkway.”
“Damned unlikely.”
“Maybe. I don’t like it, all
the same.”
Swann abruptly drops and
treads out his half-smoked
cigarette, and lights another.
They walk together back to the
shop, carefully avoiding in their
conversation any mention of the
tower.
6*rpONY!”
A Tony looks up: old
Togle, shop clerk-storeman,
moves his hand in a circular
motion near his ear. Tony goes
to the office, picks up the phone.
To his surprise it is Carson.
“Clarke, come up to my office,
will you? I’ve spoken to Mr.
Every ; it’s O.K. with him.”
What the hell, thinks Tony, as
he walks up past the research
buildings to the general-office.
With Carson is Eddie Swann.
Carson and Swann greet him;
Carson points to a chair. Tony
nods —“Mr. Carson ; Eddie”—
and sits down. He sees Carson
shoot a look at Swann, and
frown: he knows that Carson
objects to Swann being called
Eddie.
“Clarke . . . Mister Swann”—
Tony’s face is expressionless—
“has a job to do, and I want you
to help him,”
Tony nods. “Right, sir.”
“Mr. Swann isn’t entirely
satisfied with the new terminal-
tower.”
Aha, what now, thinks Tony.
Like a cat with kittens, when I
saw him there.
“Mr, Swann thinks that some
sort of safety-rail is needed for
anyone operating the isolating-
switches. I’ve had a look at it,
and I think he’s right—there is a
danger. I want you to give him
a hand to devise something
simple, practical, and above all,
Clarke, safe.”
Tony turns, gives Swann a
long hard stare. Swann leans
forward to Carson’s desk, butts
a partly smoked cigarette, lights
a new one.
Tony turns back to Carson.
“Right-oh, sir.”
“What time do you want
Clarke at the tower, Mr.
Swann?”
“Oh . . . two-o’clock suit you,
Tony?”
“Yes, Eddie.”
Carson frowns. He leans
forward, clears his throat.
“Clarke, just before you go.
Mr. Swann is assistant electrical
engineer of this plant, I prefer
you to call him Mr. Swann.”
Tony, stony - faced, says
nothing. Carson reddens.
“Clarke, why are you so
stubborn about this? You call
me mister.”
“I went to school with Eddie.”
“I’m not asking you to respect
his age, Clarke, but his position.”
Position. Yeah, and how did
he get it? Competence? Not
on you sweet life. Influence?
Not half. Mister Swann!
Mister Swann wanted the cable
cut short and set; Mister Swann
thinks the terminal-tower needs
a safety-rail . . .
“I don’t mind, sir.” Swann
smiles modestly. “I know Tony
means”
*7 mind, Mr. Swann. -
Carson’s eyes flash, his voice has
an edge. He nods at Tony. “All
right, Clarke. That’s all.”
AS Tony pulls open his tool-
drawer to get what he may
need on the tower —notebook
and pencil, knife, rubber, chalk,
sixty-six-foot tape, three-foot
rule —the shopmen, one eye on
the door in case of unexpected
visitors, crowd round him.
“Hullo, where to, Tony? ’
“He’s going out with
Swannie.”
“What, again ?”
“What’s he got that we haven t
got, fellers?” .
“Ah, he’s Eddie’s white-haired
boy.” , ~
Tony, who has made up his


Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divoecb.
TO NIKO NIKCEVIOH address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ROSSANA NIKOEVICH has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of habitual failure by you
for three years to comply with the terms
of a Maintenance Order under which you
and she have been separated for that
period and she is seeking the exercise of
the Court’s discretion pursuant to Section
27 of the Matrimonial Causes and Personal
Status Code 1948 IF you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file your
statement of defence in the Central Office
of the Supreme Court at Perth within
Forty clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED this
17th day of November, 1954.—G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED CURRAN,
ESQ., of Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place,
Perth, in the State of Western Australia,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY .OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDSEXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
■/i
%
A woman on the roof of the world
On a summer’s day, in 1932, a small mono-
plane took off from Villacoublay aerodrome,
near Paris, climbed ... and went on climbing.
The pilot was Mile Maryse Hilsz, and she
was out to establish a new world’s altitude
record for women.
The Rh6ne Jupiter engine was running
smoothly. 10,000 ft., 20,000 ft., 30,000 ft.,
30,250 ft.—she had made it 1 Maryse Hilsz
had carried away the record for France.
A.1.0.C. had a part to play in this young
woman’s brilliant achievement, for special
BP aviation spirit was used for the flight.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come
a long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
X AVIATIONfnjII SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
mind to ignore them, swings
round and speaks before he
realises it.
“White-haired boy, am I? Not
by my choosing, don’t worry.
You can have Eddie Swann for
mine, and welcome —I hate
the b !”
They step back in mock
horror.
“You don’t like him?”
“He’s joking.”
“Maybe he’s jealous.”
“Yes —perhaps he thinks he
should be assistant electrical
engineer.”
“Why? Swannie got the job
on his merits.”
Tony rounds on them again,
eyes blazing. “Got it on his
merits, did he? Who says so?
Who topped the class he was in
at night-school every year? Who
won the electrical prize at the
end of the course? Who do you
reckon was the better hand at the
bench, eh? On his merits! The
fact that his old man was on the
board of directors wouldn’t have
any effect, would it? Oh, no!”
The men are delighted at their
success. They crowd closer,
rubbing it in.
got top, boys?”
Chorus: “Tony!”
“Who won the prize?”
“Why, Tony, of course.”
Tony’s hands shake as he puts
the gear in his bag, sick at
himself for his stupidity. Experi-
ence had taught him that there is
no place for feelings at work.
But at times it made him boil,
the airs Eddie Swann gave him-
self. Mostly he could see the
humor in it, and laugh, but now
and then it got under his skin.
And then, he felt that nothing
would be more satisfying than to
knock the stupid smirk off
Swannie’s smug dial,
TIP the steel-ladder Tony
follows Swarm on to the
chequer-plate strip. Up here the
wind is stronger; Swann pulls
down his hat-brim, Tony buttons
the neck of his shirt. Legs show
through flapping trousers as they
walk gingerly to the middle of
the tower.
Tony looks down. Ten-feet
below, the high-tension cables
loop out over the insulators and
drop away in a shining catenary
rising to the next steel pole.
Behind him, inside the tower-
frame, the half-inch copper rod
connected to the cable-ends runs
vertically on pin-insulators to
the switches,
Tony walks slowly back
towards the ladder, noting at
each step the protection afforded
by the tower-bracing. He turns;
and sees Swann reaching towards
the centre switch with the operat-
ing-rod. He calls quickly in
warning.
“Hey, Eddie! Don’t forget
she’s alive. Pull her out, and
every shift-boss on the plant’ll
be screaming at us.”
Swann smiles, “Don’t
worry . . . Just trying the posi-
tion —how a man’d stand and
pull.” He reaches up until the
end of the rod is a couple of
feet from the switch, and
pretends to pull.
As in a dream, Tony sees it.
The tower topples ; instinctively
he clutches at the bracing. Then
with horror he realises it is
Swann falling: his feet slip on
the chequer-plate, his body
topples outward, his feet shoot
grotesquely up and out, his arms
fling madly, the rod spins away
and down. One hand touches
the edge of the chequer-plate
slips horribly off; his head dis-
appears. Tony, cold and sick,
head reeling, kneels and looks
over. His heart leaps: by a
miracle Swann has grabbed and
held an angle-iron brace and
hangs there, his eyes dark with
fear in a white face, his feet
perilously close to the cables.
Tony scrabbles out along the
walkway, lies full length, and
reaches down. He almost touches
Swann’s hand. He strains out
and down, but can just touch
Swann’s fingers with the tips of
his own. Swann gurgles some-
thing unintelligible.
Tony’s head spins. What to
do? Cut off the power . . .
telephone . . . shout for help.
But by the time he reached the
station switch or the nearest tele-
phone Swann’s grip would have
failed; it is a matter of minutes.
Tony lurches to his feet, runs
clumsily through the wind to the
ladder, and climbs madly down.
He runs round to the middle of
the tower, looks up, then starts
climbing, zig-zag fashion, up the
bracing, up towards Swann, up
towards the high-tension cables
that carry their dangerous load
scarcely a couple of feet below
Swann’s shoes.
FROM a window on the third
floor of the roasting-plant
the superintendent looks out
across the dirty roofs to the
water, day-dreaming of retire-
ment, of a shack by hills, and
river, away from industry’s stink
and grime. A movement on the
rim of his vision turns his head ;
he stares wonderingly, then holds
his breath as he realises that a
man is climbing the new steel
tower, straight up towards the
live wires. He rushes like a
madman along the weighing-
floor, past two startled workmen
who stare after him, into his
office to grab the phone and dial
feverishly.
“Ambulance - room? Eh?
Am —yes, emergency! Send
three or four men and an
extension-ladder to the new steel
tower on the seventy-six level —
yes, the high-tension line, near
the upriver corner of the roaster
—opposite the cooling-towers.
Yes, that’s it. There’s someone
on the tower, going towards the
wires—can’t know they’re alive.
Yes, yes, they are! And listen —
is the doctor on the plant today?
Well, get him there, too. Eh?
Simpson here—hurry, man,
hurry!”
TONY looks up. He is getting
close now: a few feet more
and his head will be level with
the cables. The realisation of this
strikes him a sudden frightening
blow. To reach Swann he must
climb right between the live
cables. He stops. Till now the
suddenness of the accident, the
desperate need for quick action,
the excitement, have spurred him
on almost without thought; now
the; imminent danger chills him,
the sweat runs in cold drops oyer
his skin. He sees that it is im-
possible. The clearance is too
small, it is suicide. He must go
back down, think of another
way.
He looks up again; and sees
that it is now or not at all. He
can hear Swann, his labored
breathing, half-sob, half-groan.
Soon Swann’s hands will slip, . .
Tony looks at the cables. The
opening between them is hor-
ribly small. A feeling of night-
mare grips his brain. Something
inside him whispers fiercely: Go
back, you fool. You can’t help
him, it’ll be two instead of one.
But how can I go back, he
thinks. They know I hate Swann
—they’ll think I let him die, . .
Well, let the b die, it’s you
or him. . . No, no, I can’t, I
must save him, to show them I
didn’t let hate and jealousy make
me desert him, . .
But you can’t; the clearance is
not big enough; the voltage is
too high; it’ll jump across. . .
I must, I must.
His teeth clenched, his breath-
ing almost a sob, Tony starts to
climb again, watching all the
time. One piece of unexpected
luck comes; a little below the
cables, and directly under the
gap between two of them, two
braces cross. Cautiously, but
wasting no time, he works one
foot into the steel crotch, then
gradually hauls himself up, his
eyes on the copper cables. He
goes slowly now, his head is
level, is through, it seems as if he
can hear and feel the current,
as though the danger has given
him an extra sense. He sees the
power there, a beast crouched in
a copper cage, waiting tensed to
spring, to bridge the gap between
bare cable and bare skin, to
shock and burn with red-hot
claws.
Sobbing dryly he inches up,
slowly, slowly; suddenly
Swann’s shoes are in front of his
eyes, then his knees, his thighs.
His heart thumping and head
throbbing he straightens up until
his shoulder is under Swann’s
armpit; with a moan of relief
he wraps his arms round Swann’s
body, crooks his free leg round
a brace, wedges his foot more
firmly in the steel crotch, and
clings to the steel tower with a
grip strengthened by fear and
despair.
FROM a long way off, Tony
hears the squeal of brakes,
the gabble of voices. Three
ambulance-men rush the exten-
sion-ladder to the tower, and one
pulls madly on the rope—up, up,
it reaches in short jerks, until it
rests against the steel, inches
below Tony’s foot. A man
climbs swiftly, running on the
rungs. Just below the cables he
stops dead, stares, then turns
and looks down.
“Hey! These cables alive?”
Consternation below, excited
voices.
“Shouldn’t be—we rang the
station.”
“No bloody good thinking —
we’ll have to be certain.”
“Hang on, Tim! Don’t move
for a minute.”
As an ambulance-man races
off to phone, Carson comes into
sight, running, gasping, hand to
side. They yell inquiry; he
nods as he runs, waves an arm,
points up.
“Dead, yes, dead. O.K. —;
power’s off.”
The man on the ladder turns,
climbs swiftly. Above, on the
walkway, wait two who have
climbed the steel ladder. They
drop a rope noose, pay it out
carefully, make a bight with the
free end round a horizontal
angle-iron. The man on the
ladder takes the noose, reaches
up past Tony, steers it over
Swann’s head, shoulders, jockeys
it under the free arm, tightens it
round chest and shoulder.
“0.K.! ”
The men above take up the
slack, tighten the rope on the
tower. Swann is safe. The man
on the ladder loops his safety-
belt in position, braces himself,
puts his shoulder under Tony’s
arm, speaks gently,
“Right-oh, son, relax ... let
go.
Tony finds it hard to move
his cramped fingers, they feel
welded to the hard steel. With
an effort he unclenches them,
then suddenly goes limp, and
sags, back into the first-aid man’s
arms.
TTALF-UNCONSCIOUS at the
foot of the tower, Tony lies
with his head cradled on the
first-aid man’s knees. Carson,
Simpson and the doctor stand
watching him; the others are
lowering Swann slowly from the
tower.
Tony’s eyes open and shut,
Carson bends over ; Tony opens
his eyes again and stares at him.
“How you feeling, old man?”
Tony tries to smile. “0.K.,
chief,” he whispers.
“You bloody fool,” Carson
says kindly, gently. “What made
you do it—it was almost certain
suicide.”
Tony stares wildly. “I had
to. Had to. I hate the b !”
Carson frowns, straightens,
raises his eyebrows at the doctor.
The doctor smiles, shakes his
head, taps it with his fingers,
“Delirious,” he whispers.
“Shock.”


On Saturday, the 30th of this inst. January, at noon,
will be published
Handsomely printed in 4to on fine Wove Paper
with a dismal etching. Price 2s.
OLD HAM NEW DREST, etc.
Dolly's Ghost Cooking up a Black Desert
A mysterious dish prepared over a slow fire, on
a Patent Stove manufactured for the Purpose at
the LONDON WAREHOUSE in Holborn
Out Damned Spot! Macbeth.
/ could a tale unfold Hamlet.
To be had at all booksellers
in Town and Country.
The Inspiring Case of Michael Massey Robinson
How to Become a
Poet Laureate
By M. H. ELLIS
IN the last decade of the 18 th
century there lived in High
Holborn in London, at the
corner of Brook-street (a
thoroughfare now forgotten), one
James Oldham, citizen, a pros-
perous ironmonger. Everybody
in London knew “the long shop”
where he lived and had his
warehouse, though not his fac-
tory, for he was one of those
newfangled people who had
sent their workshops into the
country.
Mr. Oldham had lived where
he was for nearly the whole of
his life, and so was a familiar
London figure, especially since,
in his early years, he had been
the victim of gross slander and
the central figure in a local
cause celebre. He had served
his apprenticeship with a Mr.
Daniel Doily, who had thought
so highly of him that he had
taken him into partnership as
soon as his apprenticeship ended,
and who then conveniently died,
after having for some years been
subject to “very severe dis-
orders.”
A somewhat nosey attorney in
the district had been wicked
enough to accuse Mr. Oldham
of being the cause of his
partner’s death ; but Mr. Oldham
had raised a clamor" for a
coronial inquest, and the coroner,
after solemn inquisition, had had
no doubt that “the death was
natural, occasioned by a visita-
tion of the Almighty.”
Mr. Peake, the attorney,
daring to differ from this
opinion, Mr. Oldham had sued
him for slander, had recovered
£5OO damages, had weathered
numerous appeals from the ver-
dict in Common Pleas, and
eventually had had the original
verdict confirmed in the “dernier
resorte” of the House of Lords.
He had then settled down to
business, and 22 years later was
still enjoying the prosperity
which was the lot of all iron-
mongers at the beginning of the
Napoleonic wars and on the
fringes of the kindly Age of
Reason.
The old slanders were appar-
ently forgotten, though natur-
ally, if they should be resur-
rected, “much inconvenience and
much sorrow would attend the
revival of such a story.”
+ +
On the winter evening of
January 7, 1796, Mr. Oldham
happened to be at the front of
his shop when the penny-post —
an institution which most
moderns believe to have been
born with Queen Victoria and
died with Socialism —came in.
The postman put a sealed letter
on the counter. Mr. Oldham
opened it and found it to be in a
neat and clear writing with
Oxford University hall-marked
all over it. It was dated the same
day from the Cambridge Coffee
House;
It remains with you to judge
how far the publication of the
piece to which the enclosed paper
refers can or cannot affect you.
Give me leave to observe, that it
was put into my hands some
months since by a man of genius,
a prisoner in the Fleet, who had
not himself the power of getting
it ushered into the world.
Although I am a literary
character, and concerned in some
of the daily prints, I hesitated in
promoting an attack of so serious
a nature as this, and resolved to
take some time to consider of it.
The death of the author, which
happened soon afterwards, occa-
sioned the manuscript to be mis-
laid amongst my papers; but as
I have been repeatedly called
upon by the widow of the
deceased (who has four children,
with herself entirely destitute) to
make use of the MS. I have
rather thought it advisable to
take this step first, supposing,
from what I have understood of
your character as a gentleman
(liberal and openhearted), that
you would sooner administer [to]
the necessity of this unhappy
family, than force me (or anyone
else), as their friend, to the publi-
cation of a work of this kind to
relieve them.
Perhaps, if you were to peruse
the MS. it would convince you
that the author had, by some
means, got possession of circum-
stances rather important in their
nature —as to what foundation
they may rest on, I pretend not
to hazard a conjecture—but so it
is—and I have only further to
observe, that in me, sir, you will
find a gentleman incapable of act-
ing in any manner unbecoming
that character.
I have reasons (which must,
on consideration, be obvious to
you) for not chusing to avow
myself—but you may be assured
that no steps whatever shall be
taken in this business for eight
days to come; you will therefore
have time to deliberate and
determine.
If you take no notice whatever
of this letter, I shall conceive
myself at full liberty to let the
matter take its course. And
however I regret the necessity
I am under of so doing, I shall
take a particular satisfaction in
knowing that I gave you, in a
gentlemanlike manner, an oppor-
tunity of preventing it.
I have the honor to remain, sir,
etc.,
R. R.
P.S. I must beg you to insert a
line in the “Daily Advertiser” on
Monday or Tuesday next, from
which I may judge of your dis-
position on this business. You
will please address it to “R.R.”
and may couch it in as general
terms as you please, so as to
make me understand you.
As Mr. Oldham perused this
courteous and obviously con-
siderate communication, a leaflet
.or dodger (printed in the words
given in the panel on this page)
fell out of its folds and Mr.
Oldham, picking it up, noted that
it was little brightened by a
“dismal etching” of a gentleman
painfully engaged in the pro-
cesses of shuffling off this mortal
coil.
The dodger’s reference to Mr.
Dolly naturally revived pain-
ful memories. Mr. Oldham
hastened to his solicitor, who was
also a magistrate for the shire of
Buckingham, and the result of
their consultation was the print-
ing in the “Daily Advertiser” of
a reply which matched in
punctilio the original missive:
To Mr. R.R.
The letter by penny post,
signed R.R., has been received
but as the person to whom it is
addressed is at a loss to guess
what is wished, he conceives that,
by a personal interview with Mr,
R.R. with the manuscript which
he mentions, an explanation might
tend to a better understanding
between the parties; therefore,
he will meet Mr. R.R. alone, at
any time and place he will fix
(before Friday next, or after the
Tuesday following), by a line
directed as before.
The answer to this —furnished
with the intimation “porter paid”
—proved that the originator of
the correspondence was no whit
behind Mr. Oldham in accom-
modating courtesy. He cut his
quill that very night:
I am pleased that I am not
likely to be mistaken in the idea
I have entertained of you.
Amongst men of a proper and
liberal way of thinking, an under-
standing on such a matter as this
is the easiest thing imaginable —
and, in repeating that you will
find me a gentleman, I wish you
to be satisfied that I am as
incapable of taking an unmanly
advantage as of wantonly sport-
ing with the feelings of anyone.
I have ever despised the cowardly
assassin who, skulking in obscur-
ity, sends forth his malignant
shafts to wound the peace and
character of individuals, and I
have therefore uniformly resisted
every overture made to me for
such a purpose. My situation as a
literary character has teemed with
temptations, but a sacred prin-
them aii hon ° r haS superseded
1 am, therefore, so far candid,
and, X trust, not indelicate; and
it will at least be a satisfaction to
you to be told (with a solemnity
becoming the character I have
professed myself) that not a soul
but myself is in possession of a
line of the MS nor has it ever
been out of my hands, or perused
or heard by any person living
since first 1 had it—so that when
it is committed to the flames, all
S
so clear and unequivocal, that it
will not be possible for you after-
wards to doubt.
This much I have suggested for
your satisfaction. You will now
give me leave to say something on
behalf of the cause I am engaged
in. I have no objection to an
interview and I readily close your
proposition, but there are a few
preliminaries. In order to relieve
a destitute and unhappy family,
struggling with weakness and
sorrow, will you permit me to be
your almoner. Will you allow
me to dispose of a little of your
munificence?
Would Mr. Oldham, in fact,
prove that he was the worthy
man that his correspondent took
him to be? There was, said his
correspondent, the Cambridge
Coffee House at the top Of
Newman-street in Goodge-
street, and on the right-hand
side of the entrance to this place
of resort, over the counter, a
bracket for holding letters, in
which Mr. Oldham was asked to
have placed, between the hours
of eleven and five next day, a
letter containing a bank-note-
in the argot of the period £lOO.
If that were done, R.R. would
have the pleasure to attend him
at the King’s Head Tavern,
Middle Row in Holborn, on
condition that their meeting “be
private and tete-d-tete,” when
possibly, he thought, “over the
ashes of the MS. a phoenix may
arise that may prove the fore-
runner of friendship.”
It shows the acerbity of Mr.
Oldham’s warped nature that
when he received this handsome
approach he formed at once a
resolution to bring “R.R.” “to
justice,” muttering that “I would
part with my life’s blood rather
than give him any money.”
His not very candid response
to the overture produced still
another courtly intimation that
“I shall send to the Cambridge
Coffee House again between
eight and ten this evening, when,
I trust, you will have considered
the matter, and I shall find my
request complied with.” But it
was obvious that “R.R.” would
stand no boorishness from the
ironmongery trade, for he
added: —
It may be necessary, however,
to add, by way of preventing any
further waste of time in episto-
lary intercourse, that my conduct
is generally marked by a firmness
and consistency, which 1 seldom
see occasion to depart from
nor will you, after this declara-
tion, seek to alter my purpose,
or in any other respect to urge
me not to insist on a sacred
adherence to the tenor of this
letter. „ ,
P.S. I have not the MS. about
me, but if sending you a page or
two of it will be any kind ot
satisfaction. I will transcribe the
first half-dozen stanzas and send
them to your house by 12
to-morrow.
And he concluded that “I
would rather you had suffered
me to have my humor, but there
seems an ingenuousness in your
manner, which I interpret into a
sacred principle of honor.”
In due course the verses
turned up, “porter paid” again,
to save Mr. Oldham expense.
They were, as “R.R.” had
promised in his dodger, entitled
“Old Ham Fresh Drest,” but a
few missing ones were repre-
sented by asterisks and the inti-
mation that they were “too per-
sonal” to be communicated at
present. Those that were com-
municated, however, were per-
sonal enough. They began:
Booted and spurred, our gallant wight
Returning late one winter’s night
From toil, hard Ware and duty,
To Pancras Church, upon his way,
For near that spot the gossips say,
He kept a pampered beauty.
Darkness and silence reigned around,
When from the church bell came a
sound,
Such as chill terror brings,
When some pale spirit long since fled
Haunts the black caverns of the dead
And tells of wicked things.
But lest the world should think it
strange,
A marr/d man should, rake like,
range
This wilt explain the matter;
The widow late had slipt her breath,
And even died a natural death
Though Justice murmured at her!
Presently, of course, the
wraith of the late Mr. Dolly
turned up in the verse, simulating
the agonies of death and
obviously annoyed with Mr.
Oldham as it harrowed him with
“groans terrific teeming”;
“Pause thee a while and list,” it said,
And sighed and shock its aged head
(Our hero trembling stood),
“Why in the early scenes of age
Did’st thou in such a deed engage?
Remember — blood for blood.’’’
And so it went on. Mr.
Oldham became more and more
perturbed as he read, but not
less determined. And the next
afternoon, when his reply rested
in the bracket or rack of the
Cambridge Coffee House, that
cosy club had some new cus-
tomers all with their eyes trained
in one direction as a tall, pallid
gentleman, who had been heard
to have an Oxford accent and
whose coat “hung loose” on him,
left a box and walked to the
counter.
His hand reached up and with-
drew Mr. Oldham’s acknow-
ledgment of his poesy. He
slipped the seal. He read
sadly, looked for the bank-
note and found it absent. And
then Mr. Oldham’s solicitor and
Mr. Harris, the waiter, and a few
Bow Street runners pounced on
him and took him to a private
room, where he produced a
clumsy letter (the date on which
proved a trap for him) to prove
that he was merely an innocent
Mercury acting for one Robert
Reed, who could not come him-
self because he was in the
clutches of the bailiffs.
This letter was in a neat
Oxfordian script later to become
known to students of early Aus-
tralian history, who bless it
for its clarity. From it there
seemed no doubt that the only
ghost in the story was Mr. Reed,
the alter ego of Mr. Michael
Massey Robinson, as whom the
pale gentleman of Cambridge-
street was identified.
The latter, said Mr. Fielding
to the court at the Old Bailey
a few weeks later, “is or was or
pretends to be an attorney with
chambers in Furnival’s Inn”
(where, “in a three pair back,”
Dickens later assembled Sketches
by Boz and planned Pickwick ).
It seemed Mr. Robinson had had
a room with a view of Mr.
Oldham’s premises, and his
literary mind had been inspired
by the obvious evidences of his
victim’s opulence.
Mr, Justice Lawrence —who
himself had literary associations,
for his father had been the friend
of Dr. Johnson —was also in-
spired, but briefly. His contribu-
tion to the literature of the case
is recorded after the gloomy
habit of his period in a single
word inscribed in the records in
Old English black - letter —
DEATH —it having been
“adjudged a crime as early as the
reign of George I deserving of
capital punishment” to “know-
ingly, maliciously and feloniously
send a letter, demanding a cer-
tain valuable thing, that is to say
a bank-note, contrary to the
Statute.” Against the record
stood the words: “Aged 45
years,”
However, it was not so easy
to hang Mr. Robinson. He
was, in any case, such a gentle-
man that it seemed a pity to
dispose of him, even if there
had not been certain points of
appeal to delay the swing of the
halter. In the ultimate he
escaped and found himself in
the Bar well on the way to New
South Wales, arriving in Sydney
Cove on May 18, 1798, with
every reason to congratulate
himself on the success of his
voyage.
He had been lucky enough to
travel in the same ship with the
new Judge Advocate, Richard
Dore, who had been charmed
by his conversation and his
humility, as was later Mr. Com-
missioner Bigge, who took a lot
of charming.
Even the ship’s authorities,
no sentimentalists, had been
moved to pity by his air of
frailty. He had dined in the
warrant-mess. He had received
a course and a bottle of wine
from the captain’s table every
day, and almost immediately he
had been pardoned and a place
had been found for him in the
Judge Advocate’s Office, where,
within two years, he became the
country’s first metropolitan
Registrar of Deeds and Assign-
ments and the recipient of quite
lucrative fees, supplemented by
the fruits of a little judicious
bribe-taking and falsification of
documents.
A period at Norfolk Island
for perjury, a charge or so of
forgery, the displeasure of
Governor King, the wrath of
Governor Bligh were mere de-
laying obstructions soon to be
got over in the career of one
who, as he ever insisted, was
primarily a “literary character,
and who could soon command
—when he was at liberty o
benefit by it—much more than
the emoluments of P ubi:w
office.
He soon had, in fact, the
second-largest legal practice *
the peculiar courts of tn


For Sale
MT. IRVINE (Near Mt. Wilson).
“TAIHOA,” HIGH-CLASS LONG-
ESTABLISHED GUEST HOUSE or
MOUNTAIN HOME, with 50 acres,
including fully - grown garden,
avenues of chestnuts, walnuts,
poplars. Rich volcanic soli. Spring-
water, sewered, 64 miles from Sydney,
or will sell with 10 acres. Apply—
H. HAMILTON MOORE & CO.,
Solicitors, 7 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. BX 3144.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGS AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
R. J. VICARS. A. H. DICKINS, Q. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. E. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY CARR formerly of Pam-
matta.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
DENISE CARR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3332 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 15th of March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS ROLL KING late of
Walgett.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
ANASTASIA GRACE KING has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 8012 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 15th
March 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HICKSON.
LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE, Solicitors. 10
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—O. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar. l
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO PRANK GORDON FINDLAY late of
Engadine.—TAKE NOTICE that ELAINE
DOREEN FINDLAY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2573 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ninth day of March 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HICKSON, LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE,
Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
/•; •.%*••;* •*,*•
s%*«*c***vjrj
p
sS-
c*:;
The name is
SS.V?
Q3 c Caluims
•>«
:v v :
Si
lii&SS?
5(22
<••• --•'••■
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3J
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS ..........
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
British Empir© .... £2 Foreign •••• £2/10/-
{Please add exchange to country cheques)
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
NOW. MORE THAN EVER
Holden is Australia’s finest value
In August, a further reduction was made
in Holden prices. Even before this,
Holden was considered Australia’s finest
value. The proof is that during the first
seven months of this year official
registrations of Holden were nearly
three times greater than those of any
other car model.
Now, at the new low prices, Holden
offers you even better value. It is the
only car that gives you this ideal
combination • 6 cylinder performance
at the lowest price • 30 m.p.g. economy
as reported by owners • 6 passenger
roominess at the lowest price • Depend-
ability proven in the hands of more than
150,000 owners • List prices from as
low as £B7O plus tax.
Add to all these better-value features,
the low cost and nation-wide avail-
ability of Holden factory guaranteed
parts and service. The combination
of so many advantages makes Holden
Australia’s most popular car—the finest
value you can buy.
Call in and see your Holden Dealer
soon. In view of the heavy demand for
“New-Look” Holden Sedans may we
suggest that you place your order as
soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Car !
# REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST PRICES
HOLDEN STANDARD SEDAN £B7O
HOLDEN BUSINESS SEDAN £895
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN £915
All prices are subject to Sales Tax
• Convenient G.M.A.C. hire purchase available.
Air Chief car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT A USTRAL I A yv;g3
colony, in which the “leader of
the Bar,” Mr. Crossley, was one
who had earned fame by
putting a fly in a dead man’s
mouth to prove that he had life
in him when he made a will, and
who had reached his legal
heights in England when he had
stood an hour in the pillory in
Palace Yard in Westminster and
had been cast out of the solici-
tors’ profession for perjury,
Mr. Robinson, indeed,
weathered the storm of his first
decade in New South Wales
quite comfortably, all things
considered. Even at Norfolk
Island he charmed Captain
Piper, so that that genial com-
mander got himself into disgrace
by allowing him to return to
Sydney. He ingratiated himself
with the convictry, some of
whom were able to leave these
shores as the result of his
manipulation of the books of
his office.
He presently even ingratiated
himself with Governor Mac-
quarie, and that piece of hypno-
tism opened new vistas for
him; for, though hitherto his
status as a literary character had
earned him nothing more than
a period in the shadow of the
gallows, it was now to secure
him a distinction never before
nor since held by any Aus-
tralian.
Apart from becoming chief-
clerk to the Secretary’s Office —
the transcriber of dispatches,
the writer of pardons when
granted, the general-factotum
of the highest levels of adminis-
tration, with, on the side, a nice
practice in the law (when the
judges would let him), and a
nicer one in furtive service to
the convictry, for which he
received an equally sound
return in holey-dollars and rum
—he was exalted, at the age of
60, and a year or so after he had
led a lady to the altar, to the
post of Poet Laureate.
It was in that office that he
earned his real fame. For 12
years every Royal National
occasion saw a distinguished
and delicate form rise after the
vice-regal Birthday dinner and
read in bis polished Oxfordian
accent an ode to the occasion.
They were not very good
odes, though not much worse
than those of Farmer George’s
Poet Pye, and better, often,
than William Watson’s effu-
sions. But they were the first
of their kind in Australia, and
they earned the regular
encomiums of the “Sydney
Gazette” —one is apt to suspect
written by himself, since after
his elevation to rank of the
colony’s leader of literature that
journal’s reports about convivial
and loyal events acquired a
classical allusiveness which did
not seem native to the style of
the West Indian convict com-
positor who was its editor.
They, moreover, never failed to
mention the sparkling talents of
Mr. Massey Robinson, or his
familiar intimacy with the
Muses as he hymned the future
of his adopted land:
And lo ! —within this Austral zone,
In regions unexplored, unknown,
Till time has into dotage grown,
An infant State appear;
Like Rome, whose motley exiles stand,
A lawless, daring, desperate band.
Expelled from Britain’s parent land,
Their crimes to expiate here!
Dr. George Mackaness pub-
lished a collection of his verses
—Robinson had failed to
finance one of his own —some
years ago, but did not note his
greatest distinction, apart from
the fact that he was our first
regular “poet.” He was the first
“literary character” —we may
except Flinders, who was writ-
ing tentatively—who adopted
and regularly used naturally the
name Australia as applied to
this continent, when in cele-
brating King’s Birthday, June 4,
1815, on the very edge of
Waterloo, he spoke of the
cheers for his Majesty that
Re-echoed from Australia’s Land
Which grateful owns thy fostering
hand.
Six months later he burst out:
True to the great example of their
sires,
Where duty calls and native Ardour
fires
Adventurous Britons still that impulse
feel
That prompts to glory and their
Country’s weal,
But not alone, on Ocean’s vast
Domain
They glean the spoils his deep dark
Caves contain,
Or where the harpoon’s lengthened
line is hurled
Grapple the giants of the Watery
World-
Tracts of untravers’d earth their toils
explore,
Anl add new triumphs to Australia’s
shore.
He was contemporary with
Macquarie in the establishment
of Australia’s name.
It is good to know that in
his later years the bard achieved
something like prosperity, as the
word applies to poets, dwelling
in a fine house at No. 3 Castle-
reagh-street, with a growing
brood of little Robinsons (one of
whom married a registrar of the
Supreme Court), He himself
rose first to be Deputy Provost
Marshal and finally Principal
Clerk of the Police Department,
an office in which he died,
much lamented by the press and
especially by the organ of his
fellow-poet, Dr. Laurence Hal-
loran, LL.D., a scholar like
himself and
... .one, who moved a higher rank in,
A single letter charged with franking,
Incur[red\ —from wife and children
sent.
For “tenpence”—seven years’ banish-
ment.
In his later years he had been
much in demand to write a song
for the Foundation Day dinner
which the Emancipists promoted
every year for January 26.
He was rich, with 500 acres
of land granted him at
Bringelly, along with the two
cows which Macquarie gave
him each New Year’s Day as
the stipend of his Poet Laureate-
ship. He could borrow when
in need with a charm of literary
manner that would have done
credit to Mr. Micawber, whom
he very much resembled in
some facets of his character.
He was one of the few poets
who ever succeeded in holding
shares in the Bank of New
South Wales. And he had
mortgages with Dr. D’Arcy
Wentworth, who seems not to
have had much opinion of poets
as securities —a lesser opinion
than his son William Charles
had of them as poets, since
William Charles’s
Hail mighty ridge I that from thy azure
brow
Survey’st these fertile plains, that
stretch below,
written in 1823 in the “Aus-
tralasia,” has a remarkable
familiarity of sound in the
presence of Mr. Robinson’s
original celebration of the
crossing of the Blue Mountains
in the Queen’s Birthday Ode in
January, 1816:
Yon Blue Mountains with tremendous
Brow,
Frown on the humbler Vales that
wind below.
Perhaps young Mr. Went-
worth was merely collecting
in kind unpaid interest from his
sire’s mortgage.
But Mr. Robinson would have
little cared, because he was not
above doing that sort of thing
occasionally himself, either
by intention or through the
vagaries of a too sensitive ear.
At any rate, when he died in
his 76th year he had reason to
perhaps murmur ironically, as
he surveyed his life in retrospect
and his ill-gotten comfort, the
versatile Halloran’s reflection:
Thus justice rears her sword to strike
Error and vice with force alike;
And thus, in truth if any trust is, f
“Justice becomes extreme injustice.


V
mm
wmm
mm
H
A coat
you will he proud io wear
By special arrangement with the famous
Crusader Mills, Stamina has secured a
specially attractive range of Pure Wool,
Fancy Worsted Sports Coatings. Master-
tailored in the very latest style, as only
Stamina can, these All-Purpose Coats are
now available for your selection.
You will find they are ideal for every
wear everywhere. Specially designed to
give you comfort, they are without doubt
Australia’s outstanding value.
These Stamina All-Purpose Coats are so
made that you should get 5 or 6 years*
wear from them.
ASK FOR
Stamina
Sports Coats
B TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5.C.2-113
Some like them
Some like them
Choose
■en,
©not®
rncKU
★
Onoto Peni
have a larger
range of Nibs than
any other Pen in
the- world.
Pens from 20/-
Sets from 40/-
Thomas De La Bue 4 Co. Ltd.. London
Distributors
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST Pty. Ltd.
Sydney and Melbourne^^^^
NB.2S/6.1
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fd
7~. BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABREBE
No Fade —
No Spring»
acts iifce a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort
in all movements, contour hernia
bL SSS cinplelfly to
SjWT/to"®* UIKRi ™Z
BABBKKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3c), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of Henry Kendall
and Victor Daley by A.'G. Stephens
and A. G. Stephens: His Life and
Work by Vance Palmer. —5947.
To buy copies of The Bulletin for
January 29. 1930; January 31, 1940,
and February I, 1950.—5946.
To borrow copy of Woman of
Rome. Will guarantee its return. —
5945.
To correspond with Bulletin
readers. (Reply direct to M. V.
Srinivasa Rao, 6 Varadarajapuram,
Tirunelveli Junction, South India).
Urgently required accommodation,
Sydney suburb, for married couple;
use of conveniences and garden. —
5952.
To buy copy of The White Man’s
Garden by Mervyn Skipper.—5953.
Information Sought
What horse won the 1911 Kal-
goorlie Cup ? Other details ?
The 1911 Kalgoorlie Cup (run on
Sept. 6, 1911, at li mile; worth
£700) was won by D. L. Doolette’s
aged bay horse Somnambulist (Dream-
land-Molly), ridden by Audes, carrying
7.10; Conge d’Eslire, 9.6 (Ross), 2nd;
Ilia, 6.7 (Cleverley), 3rd. Other
runners were Fortafix, Misfire, Lady
Dudley, West Park, Footman, Dim-
light, Winker, Post Town, Romulus,
Boldol, Queen Regent and Count
Zeppelin. Conge d’Eslire started
7-to-2 favorite, 4 Lady Dudley, 7
West Park, 20 Somnambulist, 25 Ilia.
Won by li length, a length between
second and third. Time, 2.36 J.
« * * «
( 1) Dates of sinkings of (a) the
Yongala, ( b ) the Koombana and (c)
the Waratah ? (2) Date of the last
visitation of Halley’s Comet ?
(1) (a) The Yongala foundered be-
tween Mackay and Townsville (Q.)
during a hurricane, March 24, 1911.
All lives (140) were lost. (b) The
Koombana left Port Hedland for
Broome (W.A.), March 20, 1912, and
foundered during a hurricane off
Balia Balia (near Condon), with all
hands lost (138). (c) The Waratah,
on its second voyage from Adelaide
to London, disappeared after leaving
Durban for Cape Town on July 26,
1909, The last heard of her was a
day later, July 27, when the Clan
Maclntyre spoke to her. She probably
capsized in a storm on July 28 (211
lives lost). (2) 1909-10. It was visible
in various parts of the world for
more than a year ; it reached its peri-
helion (i.e., when nearest to the sun)
at the end of April, 1910. Its period
is about 76 years, but this varies
owing to disturbances by the planets.
Halley’s Comet has made 28 returns
since the Chinese first observed it in
240 b.c.
* * • •
Are the Commonwealth Literary
Fund fellowships awarded only for
the purpose of producing historical
novels ?
No. The committee and advisory-
board of the fund has recently felt it
necessary to issue a statement correct-
ing some misunderstandings on the
fellowships. The main purpose of the
fellowships is to enable writers to
concentrate on producing creative
literature; the idea is often held that
works written under fellowships
(which are tenable for one year but
may be renewed) should contain
plenty of factual or historical material.
This is wrong. The treatment should
be literary, not historical. Stress
should be laid on the imaginative and
the interpretative. (Writers who are
awarded fellowships are those who
have proved their capacity to do crea-
tive work in the literary field, but
who are prevented for financial
reasons from exercising their abilities.)
While they should keep within the
broad framework of their project,
fellowship-holders may develop their
themes in as varied and extensive a
manner as desired. On occasion, too,
fellowship-holders have laid the
emphasis on subject-matter rather
than on design and details of literary
form. Writers, however, should
shape their work with artistic
thoroughness and thus give it a dis-
tinction of treatment and style to
ensure, as far as possible, that it will
be an enduring contribution to Aus-
tralian creative literature.
* » * *
(7) Details concerning the life of
boxer Peter Jackson? (2) Titles of any
books about him ?
(1) Peter Jackson was born at St.
Croix, West Indies, on July 3, 1861,
and began boxing at Sydney in 1883.
He won the Australian heavyweight
championship from Tom Lees in
Sydney on September 25, 1886.
Going overseas, Jackson fought two
memorable fights—a 61-round draw
with Jim Corbett at San Francisco on
May 21, 1891, and a 10-round
knockout win over Frank Slavin in
London on May 30, 1892. After
losing to Jim Jeffries in San Francisco
on March 22, 1898, Jackson returned
to Australia, and died at Roma (Q.),
on July 13, 1901, (2) Unable to trace
any book devoted entirely to Jackson,
although he appears in many books
of boxing reminiscences,
* * * •
Formula for a whitewash said to
be used on the White House, Wash-
ington, D.C., U.S.A. ?
Assemble 2 pecks unslaked lime, 1
peck common salt, 31b. rice-flour,
ilb. whiting, lib. clean white glue,
water as stated below. Slake the lime
with water in a vessel of about 10
gallons capacity; cover it, strain, and
add salt previously dissolved in warm
water. Boil the rice-flour in water;
soak the glue in water and dissolve it
on a water-bath; then add it, the
rice-flour, the whiting and five gallons
hot water to the first mixture, stirring
all well together. Cover to protect
from dirt, let stand a few days, and
then it will be ready for use. Should
be applied hot, and kept hot on a
portable furnace, or by using small
hot quantities at a time.
* ♦ ♦ *
Information on the Shell scholar-
ships ?
The Shell Company is offering two
scholarships in 1955 for two years’
post-graduate study at Oxford, Cam-
bridge or London University. Appli-
cants must be British subjects under
25 who have read Chemistry, Physics,
Mathematics or Geology as a major
subject or have taken degrees in
Engineering or Chemical Engineering
at an Australian university. Success-
ful candidates (who may be married
or unmarried) will receive £S7SO per
annum for two years and will have
their passage paid to and from the
U.K.; they will be expected to leave
Australia in time for the English
academic year (beginning Sept.-Oct.,
1955), and, after their studies, to sub-
mit themselves for the degree of
Master of Science or Doctor of
Philosophy. (Their post-graduate
subjects must include Chemistry,
Physics, Chemical Engineering or
Geophysics.) Applications to the
University Registrar or Shell office-
manager in each Slate; closing-date
Dec. 10, 1954.
Brief Answers
R.L.J.: Write Mrs. D. L. Bow-
man, Hon. Secretary, Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association,
Box 1871 W, G.P.0., Brisbane (Q ; ).
R.McL.: From Hamish Hamil-
ton, Ltd., 90 Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.I D.N.; Chris
Brennan was born in Sydney on
November 1, 1870, and died in Sydney
on October 7, 1932... .J.H.: After
Gene Tunney retired on July 26,
1928, Max Schmeling became recog-
nised as world heavyweight champion
when Jack Sharkey fouled him (4th
round) in New York on June 12, 1930,
but the New York Boxing Commis-
sion dethroned him for refusing to
meet Sharkey again. Schmeling and
Sharkey fought a second time, how-
ever, in New York on June 21, 1932,
and Sharkey won a 15-rounds
points-decision from Schmeling,
who thereby lost his claim to
the title G.F.: Ores of many
minerals are sold according to the
percentage of valuable material con-
tained in them. In the case of
wolfram the valuable material is
tungstic oxide. Ore containing one
per cent, of tungstic oxide is said to
contain one unit per ton of ore, 2
per cent. 2 units and so on. Pure
wolfram contains approximately 65
p.c. tungstic oxide and therefore ore
containing 1 per cent, of wolfram
would contain 0.65 p.c. of tungstic
oxide, 0.65 units per ton or 22.41 b.
of wolfram per ton. As at Octo-
ber 1, 1954, wolfram was quoted at
£lO per unit, and ore with one per
cent, of wolfram, if saleable, would
be worth about £6 10s. per t0n....
H S.J.: There is no limit to the value
of either a pensioner’s home property
or hjs furniture and personal effects.
A married couple may possess pro-
perty to a net value of £419 before
their pension is affected on the pro-
perty account. Property includes
money in the bank, bonds, stocks,
shares, houses, land, money on
loan or otherwise invested, but
of course does not include their
home property, furniture or personal
effects....L.H.; Price 6d. per copy,
from Government Printer, Canberra,
A.C.T H.M.L.; The case of
Regina v. Seeker and Warburg and
others was tried by a jury at the Old
Bailey, London, before Mr. Justice
Stable on July 2, 1954. Three defend-
ants, Seeker and Warburg, Ltd.,
Frederic John Warburg and the
Camelot Press, Ltd., were charged
with publishing an obscene libel m
the novel The Philanderer by Stanley
Kauffman. A jury of nine men and
three women, after a retirement of
50 minutes, brought in a verdict of
not-guilty G.A.M.: No
F.H.H.: No exception could be
taken to the display of the flag in the
manner suggested 1.5.: (1) The
question of religious ceremonial in the
armed services is at present under
review. (It has been mentioned
recently in the House of Reps.) (2)
No information available on such
services in the countries named.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary,
H.V.P.: No space for your whale.
N.A.: Young Rory roars rather
lightly for us P.M.R.G.: The
mouse is no more than a mouse but
you may do better R.A.S.: Doubt
if memories would “prattle” if you
hadn’t needed a rhyme for “rattle.”
. ...D.K.: Those honey-eaters perch
on very bare twigs of verse A.S.:
Thanks for letter. Verse too general-
ised G.S.: Neither nothing nor
Shakspeare but somewhere in that
middle region where so many blame-
less poems are written... .A.S.G.:
Neither the frangipani nor the
spinach... .H.H.: Too long, too
uneven, too full of echoes... .D.W.:
Mining-poem left us coal R.J.T.:
Very thin, sketches... .J.C.H.: It’s
not as bad as all that to be young.
E.C.: It is undoubtedly a poem
about a bus-trip to Adelaide; but
that’s about all one can say for it.
B.P.; Two lines, then, from your
remarkable tribute to the remarkable
church-going dog:
To the honest dog, completely British,
Personal cleanliness was a fetish.
G.F.: At least “Australia
Beware!” was a considerate title for
it G. 8.: “Song of the Mountain
Pine” is wooden K.G.L.: Pop
your genius back in the bottle
H.A.: Just the usual remarks about
pioneers.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Constitution
In the United States, studies of the
American Constitution begin in
elementary classes and are continued
right through school and university. The
result is that Americans by and large
have a knowledge of their country’s
Constitution and an appreciation of its
significance. Contrast that with Aus-
tralia. True, children in primary schools
are told that there is a Commonwealth
Constitution, but there the matter rests.
Secondary schools, for the most part,
don’t refer to the Constitution in their
curricula, and the universities reserve
Constitutional studies for Law faculties.
It is not surprising, then, that Aus-
tralians have little comprehension of the
importance of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, even though their ignorance
and indifference are highly dangerous.
For years the bulk of Socialist endeavor
in Australia has been in the Constitu-
tional sphere, for the simple reason that
the Commonwealth Constitution restricts
the centralisation of legislative power.
Admittedly only four referenda alter-
ing the Constitution have been carried,
and the frontal attacks by Socialists
against the Constitution have been beaten
off. But the votes against Constitutional
alteration have been more fortuitous
than informed. In a sense it has been
some indefinable instinct that has
prompted Australians to say “No.” That
instinct may not always remain.
Edmund Burke once observed that
“the people never give up their liberties
but under delusion.” There is a lot in
that, and it applies with great force to
Australians. Unwittingly they may
surrender their liberties to those bent on
cieating a Socialist Australia.
A start must be made to instruct future
voters on what the Commonwealth Con-
stitution is.—D. J. K. (Q.).
Address Unknown
One of the most antediluvian of regu-
lations must be that concerning the
redirection of mail. The Postal Depart-
ment, according to its application-forms,
will not “undertake” to redirect letters
addressed to the care of private box-
holders or private mailbag-holders, or
“to hotels, coffee-palaces, lodging-houses
and suchlike places.” Fair enough,
perhaps, but the regulation also ordains
that if your mail goes “to a residential
flat comprising one of a group, the
correspondence for the occupants of
which is delivered by postal-officers
into a common letterbox or to a common
agent” it cannot be readdressed to you,
I suppose that when that regulation
was framed those who did not inhabit
nice little suburban houses or posh flats
did not merit any consideration from the
“ Mawther — kettle's boilin' over!"
Postal Department. Obviously they
would be improvident souls, and perhaps
a kindly P.M.G. surmised that the greater
part of their mail would be of an
unwelcome variety that they would
prefer not to receive.
Nowadays, at least in the big cities,
almost as many people live in remodelled
old houses with a common letterbox as
dwell in self-contained flats and houses,
And the post-office will do nothing about
readdressing their mail. The respon-
sibility rests entirely upon the good
nature of someone remaining in the house
or group of flats.
I’ve just moved from such a place
after several years’ residence, because
it has been sold. The manageress has
left, and the building may be untenanted
for a considerable time while alterations
are made to it. The new owners are
under no obligation to readdress my mail,
it seems. Naturally I’ve notified everyone
I can think of, but I get hundreds of
letters in a year, and expect some of them
to be sent to the old address for some
months.
The G.P.O. was sympathetic, and said
that individual postmasters could waive
the regulations, but my ex-postmaster
alleged he had never heard of such a
thing. I’ve had to word my ex-postman
privately and liberally, and, at the
moment, he’s being very decent about
redirecting letters.
But what a contrast to England, where,
I understand, not only is any mail cheer-
fully redirected but the post-office issGes
as many forms notifying the change as
individuals like to ask for, and will send
them through the mails free of charge, a
service which they consider saves them
time and trouble in the long run. —
Kayenne (N.S.W.).
Wharflaborers
All this talk, during the recent strike,
about wharflaborers being unskilled!
Perhaps those who push trucks
around, get in each other’s way and pay
more attention to union meetings than to
their work may qualify for the unskilled
category. But when it comes to winch-
drivers and hatchmen I’ll pay them as
down-to-earth hard workers who’ve had
to qualify the hard way.
There are two winch-drivers and one
hatchman to each hatch and they have
to be able to drive all kinds of winches.
Under union rules a man has to be a
member of the union for two years
before he can even start learning to be
a driver. Many have waited up to 15
years before they have been “selected”
to drive the winches.
I’ve spent many an hour on the
wharves watching these fellows make up
their sling and drop it down safely
almost on a threepenny bit. They’re
skilled all right—far more than their
Communist bosses. — Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
Industrial Problems
The increase in steel prices, because
of the Arbitration Court’s award of
increased wage-margins, points the need
in Australia for a more positive approach
to costing in industry, both primary and
secondary.
There is no doubt that steelworkers are
entitled to a margin for their skill; there
is no doubt that the steel industry is
justified in passing on to the consumer
the added costs entailed.
That reflects the view ordinarily taken
of industrial costing in Australia, but
isn’t there another factor? Justification
and entitlement aside, the result will be
higher prices of products using steel,
higher costs generally in industry and a
further handicap for Australian goods on
both local and export markets,
Already many European products are
selling in Australia at prices Australian
manufacturers cannot meet—in spite of
tariff-protection—and a continuing cost-
rise in Australian industry could well
result in serious industrial failures and
unemployment.
The acting-president of the N. S. Wales
Employers’ Federation, K, M. Whyte,
said lately that, if Australian industry
was to survive, unions and management
would have to meet on a non-political
level to thresh out the problems facing
them. He said bluntly that, because of
high production-costs, Australia was
losing markets overseas, possibly for ever,
while the local market was in danger
from cheap imports.
Labor and management in Australia
never do meet on a non-political level,
"I'll swap you two ‘Rugged Rangers' for two ‘Spaceman comics."
however, and that is a greater factor
than many imagine in the growth of
our present troubles. Neither side is
free from blame. The pattern of Aus-
tralian industrial relations was set before
the turn of the century. It has remained
static, and is so far behind the times
that employers’ and employees’
representatives meet in an atmosphere
more suggestive of a boxing-ring than a
conference-room.
Some day, very soon, this attitude
will have to change, for the end of the
post-war boom is clearly in sight as far
as Australian secondary industry is
concerned.
Good faith is needed, and the initial
responsibility for a show of good faith
rests with management. A determination
to stabilise costs, even if it means a
temporary reduction of profits; a more
realistic approach to employer-employee
relationship through the wise use of staff
and public-relations; a frank approach
to the unions on the necessity for greater
co-operation between worker and
management at factory-level; the
trading of incentives and profit-sharing
on the one part for greater effort and
individual responsibility on the part of
the worker these are some of the
positive steps that management should
take.
As for the unions, they should make
an intelligent study of the state of the
industries on which their members rely
for employment, and should co-operate
with management in restoring industrial
health. Most important, they should
let their members know that prosperity
and assured employment are possible only
in those industries that can compete
with overseas products—and that industry
cannot do that unless workers give a
fair return for their wages in efficient
and conscientious work.
The greatest problem, however, is to
get both sides to confer in an atmosphere
free from the political bickering that has
almost always marked proceedings in the
Arbitration Court. This is a task that
could well be undertaken by the Com-
monwealth Government, acting merely
as the organiser of a national conference
between union leaders and employers.
Unless some such action is taken soon,
the grim alternative of industries forced
to close down by foreign competition
will dispel false ideas of a boom that
can live for ever, without efficiency and
without effort. — Inall (N.S.W.).
Oil and Coal
What is the benefit to Australia of the
current campaign for more and more
roads, more and more motor-vehicles and
less and less restrictions on road-
transport?
Every gallon of oil burned in Aus-
tralia has to be imported, yet we are
urged to make possible the burning of
millions more gallons.
The oil and automobile companies can
be forgiven for pushing their barrow for
all it’s worth, but the future of the
country has to be considered, too.
Even the railways are succumbing to
the propaganda in favor of oil. Queens-
land Transport Minister John Duggan has
done a great job since he’s been in office,
but he blundered when he decided to go
in for expensive, diesel-locomotives
(imported, like their fuel) on long-
distance trains such as the Sunlander.
He would' have done better to have
spent the money on research into the
design and production of a coal-burning
locomotive able to haul big loads at high
speeds with a minimum of nuisance from
soot and cinders and with maximum
efficiency for each pound of fuel used.
Such research could well investigate
the original plans for the diesel-engine.
Since, distillate fuel has been used for
this type of engine the inventor’s first
forecasts appear to have been forgotten.
The whole principle behind the diesel-
engine was the pulverisation of fuel.
Everyone who remembers the old open
fire in the kitchen also remembers that
when Mother brushed the flour from
the pastry-board into the fire the flour
burned with a sudden “whoosh.” That
was because continual handling had
pulverised the flour particles so much
that they became highly inflammable.
The same effect may be got by throw-
ing very finely pulverised coaldust on to
an open fire.
Diesel foresaw his engine being run
even on ordinary soil, provided it could
be dried and pulverised sufficiently. That
may not yet be possible, but we should
be able to develop a diesel-locomotive
that could be driven on pulverised coal.
Even in present circumstances rail-
haulage is the most economical for long
distances; properly organised it could
meet road-competition with ease. —R. H.
(Q.).
Defence Training
There are still too many complaints
that National Service trainees gfet little
training likely to be of value to them
in war-time. They get some appreciation
of discipline and a useful amount of
physical-culture, but seemingly not much
else to equip them for the kind of fighting
they will have to do if Australia becomes
involved in new conflict. The Army
Minister claims that the standard of
training has improved progressively, and
says his only complaint is that the
training-period is far too short when
compared with that in other countries.
What we should know is not the
comparison of length of service, but of
type of training being given to young
men in Britain and America (and Russia
and China). Do the comparatively
junior officers who are in charge of
C.M.F, units know anything of modern
weapons, of the changes which are
occurring quickly in tactics for land-
forces?
What, if any, modem weapons are
available for training in Australia? Smart
parades, with gleaming bayonets and
polished boots, like those seen regularly
by the Minister, will do nothing to save
South-East Asia and Australia against a
foe well-equipped and specially trained
for a special job.
Surely the lessons of Malaya alone have
not been forgotten so quickly. If today’s
trainees ever have to fight in earnest
they’ll need to be taught a lot more than
they learn under our present scheme.
—Mugga Way (A.C.T.).


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT
A Subscription to
Jvfst fill in the following form and post it with your cheque
for 365. (12 months), 18s. 6d. (six months), or 9s. 6d.
(three months) to The Bulletin, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and The Bulletin will be posted to anyone you
name in Australasia regularly every week for the selected
period. Annual subscription to other parts of the British
Empire, £2. Foreign, £2 10s.
twelve*
Please post “The Bulletin” for the next six* months to the following
three*
address, for which I enclose
*Strike out wo'rds not required.
Card to be filled in
TO
FROM
Name
[please print]
Street
Town
State or Country
WITH THE FIRST ISSUE OF EACH 12 MONTHS’
SUBSCRIPTION WILL GO A “BULLETIN” CHRISTMAS-
CARD FILLED IN AS YOU DESIRE
NOTE • For our records, your own name and address should be
written in ink across the top of this form.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for.
all yom
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
cstablisneu i»G»
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OX $
osiumvav
pmn>.
5681%
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HFAD OFFICE AND PACTOP.IES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS? AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only ©BEAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHEB, 8.A., B.Sc.,
SPORTING NOTIONS
The F. W. Kennedy Randwick
stable was once again in form at
Randwick on Saturday, when the
New Zealand-bred four-year-old
gelding Wakatu put up a
meritorious display to land big
bets in the Malabar Handicap.
Last but one in the early stages,
the speedster Charente many
lengths ahead of him, Wakatu
flashed up in the final few strides
to take the sprint from Charente
in the smart time of 1.11 for the
six furlongs.
Wakatu is engaged in the
Villiers (December 18), and on
his performance in the Malabar
should have a sound chance in
the mile.
Cruden Bay, dam of Wakatu,
is a Salmagundi (imp.) mare
from Lochlaggan by Woodend
(imp.). She won sprint races in
the Dominion before going to
the stud. At two years Wakatu
won, among other races, Auck-
land’s Great Northern Cham-
pagne Stakes.
Disappointment of the
Malabar was favorite Birdwood,
whose attractive training gallops
at Rosebery had suggested a
probable win. However, he had
to cover too much ground, and
he could quickly atone. He
remains one of the Villiers
fancies, though he hasn’t shown
ability at the Villiers distance.
He has won at seven furlongs,
though, and as a winner of the
V.R.C. Newmarket is entitled to
consideration in any event up to
one mile.
Weight had a lot to do with
Silver Phantom’s defeat at Rand-
wick. He had 9.10 in the Mala-
bar, and finished a moderate
sixth.
• t A •
Sir Newton, a powerfully built
colt, in recording his third suc-
cessive win (the Randwick
Juvenile Stakes) made light of
his 9.1. On this run he has joined
three other topliners among the
colts, Kingster, Aboukir and
Knave.
Sledmere (Scone, N.S.W.) stud-
master M. V. Point is keen on
the progeny of his imported
(French-bred) Royal Empire,
who has had winners in this his
first Australian season. The
owner of Sledmere is racing one
of the Royal Empires, Royal
Treasure, winner of a Hawkes-
bury Two-year-old Maiden in
fine style, and third at Randwick
on Saturday to speedy Devil
Dancer. Royal Empire was one
of the best three-year-olds of his
year in France and England,
winning at up to one mile and
five furlongs.
Devil Dancer won rather well
in fast time. A penalty and an
outside barrier-draw didn’t help
runner-up Seeta, but she, too, is
a smart filly and will probably
soon win again. Devil Dancer is
another of the successful progeny
of imported Nilo.
Aluinn Stud declined the
900gns. bid for Storyteller at the
Randwick sales. Racing as a
gelding, he won his first race, the
Randwick Three-year-old Novice,
in such impressive style that it
would appear the stud knew its
onions. The display indicated
staying possibilities. It was his
first shot at a mile and he came
home strongly under difficulties,
as the saddle had slipped half-
way through the race. In the
family fines such noted horses as
Foxbridge (imp.). Pretty Polly
and Tehran appear.
Owner-trainer Harry Oakes
appears to have a smart three-
year-old filly in Swanee, a New-
castle Maiden winner. Swanee,
another of the Midstreams,
comes from the family which
produced Bankbrook, Avenger
(A.J.C. Derby) and Swan River.
Melbourne two-year-old filly
Lady Chloe improved on recent
minor placings by winning the
Moonee Valley First Pascoe
Handicap on Saturday, starting
a short-priced favorite. Trained
by A. Lopes for her breeder,
J. B. Preece, she is by Nebris
(imp.) from Worrolonga. Devon
Mist, winner of the Second
Pascoe, is raced by V.R.C. chair-
man Sir Chester Manifold. She
is a half-sister to Arbroath, who
won the Australian Cup for the
same owner. It was the first win
for new sire Meadow Mist,
whose progeny are now two-
year-olds. Devon Mist is a grey,
like her sire.
Though weather conditions
favored a large attendance at
Randwick the 28,000 crowd was
4000 fewer than that at the
corresponding fixture last year
and totalisator investments were
also some thousands down.
Maybe the Friday-night trotting
is having an effect. Best part of
20,000 were at Harold Park the
night before the Randwick meet-
ing. Night-trotting is booming.
In Wellington (N.Z.) noted Aus-
tralian pacer Ribands on Satur-
day won the £2OOO N.Z. Pacing
Championship (13 furlongs) in
world-record time of 3min.
21|sec. He defeated Rupee and
world-two-miles record-holder
Johnny Globe.
* * »
Subversive propaganda? The
report—by how many “experts”!
—that the ’Gabba pitch for the
first Test was going to be a real
“demon”!
Before the first Test began
some were muttering gloomily
that, with but one or two
changes, Australia was the same
team that was bundled out
ingloriously by Lock and Laker
at the Oval in the fifth Test in
1953. Maybe so; but, as it
turned out, there and then any
resemblance ended.
Hutton’s winning of the toss
in Brisbane was the first time
he’d managed it against Aus-
tralia —he lost all five tosses
with Hassett in England last
year (and, incidentally, won only
one out of five against West
Indies earlier this year). But,
in the whole series of Australia
v. England Tests, the various
English skippers have called
right twice more (83 times to
81) than have the Australian
captains.
• • • •
Hassett, in the fourth Test in
England last year, sent England
in; but the immediate results
were not quite so drastic for
him as for Hutton. Quite the
reverse, in fact; Hutton was
clean-bowled by Lindwall second
ball of the match, England were
3-36 and all out 167, and, in
the final outcome, only the clock
stopped Australia from winning.
Morris’s 153 in Brisbane was
his first Test-century since his
206 in the fourth Test against
England in Adelaide in 1950-51.
He scored a “moral” century in
the fifth 1952-53 Test against
S’Africa when, after a number
of failures, and having reached
99, he responded to a shocking
call from Harvey and was run-
out. (Harvey, then 7, went on
to make 205.) There was none
of that bad calling evident in
the two left-handers’ grand 202
partnership against England in
this Test.
It was Morris’s eighth Test-
century against England—more
than any other Australian bar
Bradman (19). But Morris was
already runner-up in centuries
against England; next-highest
tally after his is six, made by
both Trumper and Woodfull.
Miller’s chopping a ball from
Bailey into his wicket when one
short of the half-century recalls
that he once did the same thing
at a much more heartbreaking
point in any batsman’s innings
—one short of a century!
Wright the bowler in that Test.
In Melbourne, Vic. v. S.A.,
with the second day washed
right out, Vic. won on the first
innings. (S.A. 153, 8-354 ; Vic.,
7-311.) Best efforts, Favell’s 56
and 160 for S.A., Vic. left-
hander Chambers’s excellently
compiled 102.
“C.A.A.”: lan Johnson be-
comes the sixth member of
South Melbourne Cricket Club
to lead this country in Tests
against England, The others —
Jack Blackham, Harry Trott,
Warwick Armstrong, Bill
Woodfull and Lindsay Hassett —
all had much success as Aus-
tralia’s skippers. The only
previous bowler to lead Australia
was Hugh Trumble, who
officiated for two Tests in 1902.
* ♦ *
Ron Menzies on Saturday
won the P.G.A. Cup and pro,
purse by one stroke from Kel
Nagle and Jim Moran. The
tourney was played for the first
time on the Mona Vale nine-
hole course. Menzies had a
record round of 67. Nagle
needed two birdies for the last
two holes to tie, but just failed
to pull them off.
Prizemoney for this year’s
Ampol tournaments totalled
just a zack under £5608 for the
two tournaments, including 75
per cent, of net gate. The rest
of the gate, £869-odd, went to
Professional Golf Association
funds, American pro. Harri-
son won the most individual
prizemoney, £950-odd, with a
win in the first tournament in
Sydney and fifth place in the
second in Melbourne. Pick-
worth bagged £842-odd as
runner-up in both tournaments;
Peter Thomson £720-odd for his
Melbourne win.
“K.R.”: An English golf pro.
lately holed-in-One twice in
the same round on the one day in
a tourney in England, but even
that’s no new feat; the Golfer’s
Handbook records some 21
instances, four of them by Aus-
tralians on Australian courses.
Two of these four were women,
one with the appropriate
surname of Driver.
Here are one or two other
holes-in-one, clipped at random
from the Handbook : Gertrude
Lawrence, the actress, holing-in-
one from her very first tee-shot
on her very first round of golf;
Peter Toogood, winner of this
year’s Australian amateur title,
the youngest golfer (at 8) ever to
hole-in-one; and, perhaps the
most remarkable feat of all, one
R. Slater, at Blackpool, hitting
off the first tee, his ball striking
a flagpole between the first fair-
way and the 18th green and
ricocheting on to the 18th green,
to drop into the hole —the only
instance on record of a golfer
completing a course in one
stroke!
♦ * •
Run at Henson Park, Sydney,
the first amateur six-day bike-
race to be held anywhere in the
world drew a field of 14 teams
of two, at least one of each pair
having to be on the track all the
time. Winners were South Aus-
tralians Morrie Martin and
veteran Olympian Jim Nestor;
they finished a lap ahead and
with a handsome lead on points.
* ♦ ♦
With a roll-up that wouldn’t
have made a decent gate for a
cat-fight, the Australian Boxing
Club struck it rough for their
Empire welterweight-title scrap
at Sydney Sports Ground be-
tween title-holder Barry Brown,
from N.Z. and Aus-
tralian welter champ. George
Barnes So, too, did
Brown, outed in the 11th, after
being down several times earlier.
Barnes was well ahead, anyhow,
before the K.O.
Unorthodox opponents (south-
paws, who shape right-hand first)
are usually easy to beat if you
know how to fight them. You
keep moving to their right, while
swinging your right fist to head
or body as often as possible.
Barnes was a wake-up to this,
flooring Brown for a compulsory
“eight” count with his right lead
less than a minute after the first
bell. It was another right that
crashed the Enzedder in round-
four. Neither scrapper showed
form fitting for a British Empire
champion, though maybe if
there’d been a bigger and more
enthusiastic crowd there’d have
been a better fight.


Public Notice
FLORENCE ETHEL SALAU, formerly of
Swan Hill and of Royal Hotel, Hatfield.—
If the abovementioned contacts MESSRS.
GARDEN & GREEN, Solicitors, Swan
Hill, she will hear something to her ad-
vantage.
Hai/e you a
BIG farming
job Id do?
»
a
- '’2*l,
S >
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
O A full range of
"MATCHED ■ AFTER ■
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itselfl
NT.27.32
Sold end Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
•he NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basie Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
f
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victorias
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., fl UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
ROOM
FOR TWO
By "FREDDIE "
TWO of us were told near
Cairo to join Tubby’s
squadron as replacements.
We asked “Where is it?”
The wing-commander said
“Aw, hell, out there in the blue
somewhere, a thousand to fifteen-
hundred miles west, last we heard
of ’em.”
We said, “Well, how do we
get there?” being still pretty
callow.
“Hitch, you bloody fools!
And keep on the road when you
get out a bit; either side is still
mined.”
It was during Rommel’s last
run back in the western desert.
The road to Tripoli had been
blasted over most of its length
by bombs from both sides as
ground was lost and won ; riding
over it in the backs of various
trucks, clapped-out staff-cars,
and once for two-hundred miles
in a long-range raiding-car
driven by a madman, who, when
sick of the hard jolting of the
pockmarked tarmac road, didn’t
hesitate to risk mines and drive
over the sand for a while.
At midnight in the bleak
Libyan winter, about half-way
along that dip in the coast of
North Africa, our final driver, a
Welshman who drank whisky out
of the glove-box as he drove,
said “Approach in’ Mussolini’s
Marble Arch indeed.” He slowed
a bit.
In the darkness on our left a
faintly glowing cigarette waved
up and down. The Welshman
halted his truck. From the dark-
ness a voice said “Y’ ’aven’t got
two blokes for Tubby’s mob,
have yuh?”
In indescribable relief we said
in unison “That’s the mob we’re
looking for.”
The bumper-wielder said,
“Jus’ follow me glow for a bit;
the sappers have deloused the
track into the squadron and in
daylight you can follow it by a
tape.”
After following him for a
while we could hear Aussie
voices raised in some bacchana-
lian exercise ahead of us. Our
guide lifted a tent-flap, told us
to get in smartly, and swiftly
covered the tent’s entrance again.
We stood blinking in the
smoky fug faintly illuminated by
a couple of lamps. Around the
sides of the tent, which was some
forty- or fifty-feet long, blokes
squatted in those stick-and-
canvas chairs drinking beer. At
the far end we could see dimly
a trestle-bar with a sweating
steward behind it. Along part of
one side of the tent ran another
trestle-table used for meals and
conferences on tactics.
I recognised a couple of
blokes, and one of them said
“Hello, Freddie —come and meet
the boss.” It was the first time I
had met Tubby. Like most of
them he was bearded. I heard
he’d decided “No shaving till
we’ve destroyed our two-
hundredth.”
He looked up at me, standing
in front of him, and said “Are
you teetotal?” That was a tricky
one from an unknown squadron-
leader. My reply was “I don’t
feel teetotal at the moment.”
Tubby said “Bloody good thing.
They never relax. They sit up
all night writing long letters
home instead of getting a bit
tanked and having a good night’s
rest. And they always get killed
first. Take him away and fill him
up; other gent., please.”
Well, it was a rip-roaring
night; and about 2 a.m. a pilot
called Bluebeard (not that there
were any ladies there to earn him
that sobriquet—his beard was
red) said “Come on, mate, I’ll
show you to your tent.” After
we stumbled for what seemed
miles over gibber ridges in the
dark, sure enough, a tent loomed
up. “There y’ are, mate,” mut-
tered Bluebeard, and stumbled
off and was lost in the darkness.
I found my way into this tent,
and, well wrapped in Irving-
jacket, battle-dress and fleece-
lined flying-boots, stretched out
on its sandy floor and slept.
In the morning when I woke
orderlies were stepping over me,
putting plates of burgoo
(porridge) on a table beneath
which lay my legs. Still lying
there I said “This isn’t my
tent.”
“Well, who showed yuh home,
mate?”
“A bloke called Bluebeard;
and he certainly took a round-
about route.”
One of the orderlies leaned
over me and said “Mate, you’re
not going to live long—how
much do you want for your
Irving-jacket?”
One of his cobbers said
“Bluebeard’s a pilot of Tubby’s
squadron.”
I said “Of course he is. He
showed me home from Tubby’s
mess to my tent.”
“Well, you followed him three
miles through a minefield ; that’s
if you walked straight. Now
come on, mate, how much do
you want for your Irving-
jacket?”
I said, “No sale. Well, how
do I get back to Tubby’s
squadron?”
The predatory orderly said
“Just follow the tape to the
Tripoli road, walk about three
miles west along it, and you'll
see their tape going in on your
left. Then follow that. You
can’t miss ’em; when the wind’s
from the west we can hear ’em
screaming about whose dysentery
is worst.”
I said “Who are you blokes,
anyway?”^
One of them said “Air
Ambulance Unit.”
When I entered the squadron’s
mess tent, Tubby had come in
and, smacking Bluebeard on the
shoulder, said to him “Drunk!”
“Drunk be blowed!” quoth
Bluebeard, “I showed Freddie
home to his tent last night.”
I said “I woke up at the Air
Ambulance Unit.” The smile
was whipped from Tubby’s face.
He grabbed a bottle of cognac
and walked out of the tent.
Every night Tubby and his
two flight-commanders sat at the
breakfast trestle-table and
cooked up some way of annoy-
ing Germans in the morning.
While this trying debate was
going on, everybody else stood
or sat around drinking beer and
looking nonchalant. Some were ;
some weren’t.
One night Tubby exclaimed
“It’s a natch! We’ll raid
Burat-el-Sun tomorrow at noon. ■
We’ll take six Kittyhawks, and i
of course each man takes a
two-fifty bomb to wake ’em up
with before we strafe.”
A bloke near me said “Strike i
me bloody brindle, he’s got a (
D.F.C. and Bar already; what
more’s he want?” Tubby was
still talking with some
enthusiasm. He was saying “You
know, chaps, it’s their main
fighter ’drome, and we might
get a dozen M.E.s on the ground.
[The Germans later admitted
seventeen.] We’ll pick the team
shortly ; and the blokes included
will try and drop the two-fifty’s
among their aircraft. Most of ’em
will be having lunch. After the
bombing, and it must be pretty
low bombing, they’ll run out like
angry ants. Then take your pick ;
if you see any undamaged
M.E.s, they come first. If most
of ’em seem bent, go for the
personnel. I know that their
adjutant is easily identifiable —
he always has a clean shirt.”
Then they picked the team.
Tubby announced “I’ll lead. I’ll
take Webster, Jamison, Smith,
Hedstrom and Zeitch.”
TI7E heard about it when they
’ ’ came back. Tubby led them
on to the target at the crack of
noon.
They screeched down ; dropped
the bombs and zoomed away.
Something from the ground hit
Smith, who whirled on his back,
struck the centre of the ’drome
and exploded. Strafing over, the
remaining five turned for home.
Jamison called on the R/T
“Motor hit; must land.” He
belly-landed on a dry wadi-bed
about three ridges east of the
Jerry ’drome. He called out on
the R/T “Down O.K. Will
walk home.”
Walking home meant trudging
down into the Sahara, round the
bottom of the war, and up again
northwards hoping, with the help
of Arabs, to eventually find
someone on your own side.
Some of these hikes ran into
three- or four-hundred miles.
Tubby called back to him “Stay
by your aircraft; I’ll pick you
up.” Tubby landed, wheels
down, in a wadi a couple of
ridges further east from the
German ’drome. The three kites
still in the air gave Jamison a
line to walk towards Tubby ; and,
when the Jerries got too close to
Jamison, sprayed them and made
them lie down for a bit.
Tubby had kept his motor
running; and in the windless
wadi his glycol temperature must
have almost reached blow-up
point. Tubby stood by his Kitty-
hawk tapping one flying-boot
impatiently on the ground for
half an hour before Jamison
slithered down to him.
Tubby chucked his own
parachute out of the cockpit to
make room. Jamison squatted
low in the bucket-seat and put
his feet on the rudder pedals.
Tubby sat on Jamison’s lap and
grabbed joystick and throttle;
and they were off. As they left
the ground a rock knocked one
wheel off.
Tubby had two fetishes —one
about unnecessary loss of men—
the other about unnecessary
damage to aircraft.
The four planes headed for
home. Back there, when we saw
four Kittys come in to land, a
couple of blokes muttered,
“Tubby’s lost two.”
Tubby could legitimately have
pulled up his remaining wheel
and belly-landed safely (consider-
ing his overcrowded situation).
The other fellows had told him
which wheel was good. He put
down this good leg and made a
classy one-wheel landing ; and at
the end of its run his kite simply
swivelled and scratched a wing-
tip.
When the blokes on the ground
saw five men walking back from
four planes, there was quite a
bit of eye-rubbing.
When they came within hear-
ing, we heard Tubby say “You
owe me a beer, Jamison.”
Jamison said “I’ll buy you two,
boss.”
It was shortly after this that
Tubby got his D.S.O.


mwm
it Wifi
outn ;
- ■%
m
mm
mm
‘You asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes , Sir”
Where fastidious attention to detail goes
without saying, where tradition brooks
no trifling with standards firmly laid,
BENSONandUEDGES cigarettes, made from
the finest of fine tobaccos, reach their
own congenial setting, to mark each and
every occasion . . .
df
fd
fd
IT IS NO MERE COINCIDENCE THAT
BENSON & HEDGES CIGARETTES ARE TO BE FOUND IN
ALMOST EVERY FAMOUS CLUB, NOT ONLY IN LONDON
BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson & Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD ■ OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
ibw/ls?
r SENT OUR ATOMIC SECRETS
TO MOSCOW
In 1943-1914 Major G. R. Jordan,
acting as chief expediter of the lend-
leasc agreement with Russia, found
that vital materials and top-secret
equipment (costing astronomical
sums of money) were being des-
patched to the Communists. This
was being done in spite of security
regulations, and at a time when
many of the items were desperately
scarce in America itself.
Major Jordan also reveals the
shocking treachery of many so-
called “war leaders,” and their will-
ing service to the Communists, in
this factual, authenticated article,
and the attitude taken to him by
the influential “leftists” of the
nation’s Press.
The current issue of the INTEL-
LIGENCE SURVEY also provides
other factual reports and comments
essential for all Christian patriots.
Single issues of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/- post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/- post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
( Non-party, non-sectarian )
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
n jl
Between
Ourselves
f
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Ball* entirely t* Ausirahe by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . • Vardon A Sons Ltd.
BERTH •• ..Docket Book Uo. (Au»t.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GUIDED MISSILES
Writing in “New York Times,”
Hanson W. Baldwin has reported
built ouSir Washington and
around the outskirts of New
York and other U.S. cities.
The “nests” are bases for
guided-missiles and the “birds”
are “slender supersonic Nike
anti-aircraft rockets designed to
seek out and destroy enemy
bombers with uncanny
accuracy:
■birds^rn r ying e .oda°y ’SovS
missiles soar over the Baltic from
Peenemunde; above the great
Australian desert strange objects
with stranger names shimmer at
yarding in the sunshine,
The United States Air Force has
sent a Matador guided-missile
squadron, to . Germany and
another ts going this autumn,
The U.S. Army is sending its
Corporal rocket-battalion over-
seas. The Navy has converted
two submarines for launching the
Regains guided-missile ; a third
is being converted, and cruisers,
carriers and other types are
being equipped to carry and
launch missiles of many kinds
varied configurations and
incredible speeds.
After a long period of gesta-
tion and slow birth, the guided-
missile is becoming a major
factor in strategy and tactics—
and hence in geopolitics. It has
by no means reached maturity-
the intercontinental missile is
still some years m the future—
but it is a healthy and dangerous
adolescent, and it is no longer
true that the only element of
push-button war that we possess
is the push-button.”
That is an American view.
British reports are a shade more
cautious, and would indicate that
Britain is not quite so far
advanced—although it is worth
remembering that at the begin-
ning of World War 11, when
radar was practically unheard of
and only a vague experiment in
Germany and the U.S., Britain
had quietly and efficiently strung
its east coast with that very
device, to the subsequent
bewilderment of Germap
bombers.
It is admitted, however, in
London “Financial Times,” that
today “more British scientists
and engineers are employed in
the guided-missile industry than
there are in the entire airframe
portion of the industry”:
“While this does not mean
that more money is now being
spent on missiles than on con-
ventional aircraft, it does mean
that a major proportion of our
scientific manpower is being
absorbed on work which is still
at a development stage rather
than a stage of production.
“Guided-missiles are not yet
in quantity - production in
Britain. Nor, when they do come
into production, will they, as
has sometimes been forecast, at
once make the manned aircraft
obsolete. Nevertheless, while the
missile will complement rather
than supplement the existing
structure of operational aircraft,
a complicated industry has
already grown up with the task
of concentrating solely on this
new science. The pattern of the
guided-missile industry is, in
fact, today well established.”
After tracing the history of this
“industry,” the “Financial
Times” continues:
“Primary responsibility for
guided-weapon projects rests
with a number of firms in the
aircraft industry; the Bristol
Aeroplane Company, De Havil-
lands, English Electric, Fairey
Aviation, the Hawker Siddeley
Group and Vickers-Armstrongs
have been named as major
contractors.
“With their associated elec-
tronic and instrument companies,
and those directly engaged on
auxiliary equipment, the total
number of firms now involved is
well in excess of a hundred.
“It would be misleading, how-
ever, to refer to this as a new
‘industry’ in the full'sense of the
word, because guided-weapon
development has gone to those
firms which already possessed a
nucleus of the special skills
involved; it is, rather, a joint
ramification both of the aircraft
and electronic industries,
“All the major aircraft-firms
concerned in this work have now
established branch laboratories
br workshops near Salisbury,
Australia, so as to be able to take
full advantage of the facilities at
the Long Range Weapons Estab-
lishment, Woomera, where the
climatic conditions are suitable
for missile-testing all the year
round. The Australian Govern-
ment is also playing its part in
finalising this work and in the
design of such items as target-
aircraft.
“While gUiided-weapons are
not yet in operational use, all
three Services are preparing
tactically and strategically for
their arrival. It is significant that
while both the Navy and the
Army will be equipped with anti-
aircraft missiles, the main respon-
sibility for a.-a. missile-defence
is to be vested in the Air Force.”
An American commentator
lately in Britain prophesied that
guided-missiles would rise “in
wave after wave” to meet any
invading bombers with devastat-
ing accuracy. The prophecy may
have been a shade premature,
but, as the “Financial Times”
report indicates, it mightn’t be a
bad long-range bet.
“Basically,” the “F.T.” con-
tinues, “industry has been called
upon to produce weapons that
can fly and think automatically
at 2000 m.p.h. This calls for a
remarkable synthesis of a number
of sciences supersonic-
aerodynamics, servo-mechanisms,
miniature-electronics and pro-
pulsion-engineering.
“Aerodynamically, the require-
ments of the missile are a far
cry from those of even the most
advanced conventional aircraft
in production today. Their
electronic systems are not only
inevitably complicated, but also
have to be ‘miniaturised’ (new
words are also coming into play)
to an extent which calls for
entirely new techniques. The
components must also be capable
of operating at extremes of
temperature. And to propel
missiles through the air, designers
are asking for the equivalent of
10,000-thrust horsepower from
a simple tube some 12in. in
diameter.
“Additionally, there are the
new problems of testing missiles.
One or two prototype aircraft
can be used for all the develop-
ment work connected with a
whole breed of conventional
aircraft. Not so with the guided-
missile, for each test vehicle may
be destroyed on its first flight,
particularly as there is no pilot
on hand to take remedial action
in some' unexpected occurrence.
Parachutes are, of course, used
whenever possible, and every
attempt is made to extend the
life of the missile, but neverthe-
less the new industry is being
called upon to build experi-
mental test-vehicles in what, for
conventional aircraft, are almost
production quantities.”
The three methods of guidance
for these missiles—command
guidance, beam - riding and
homing—have been covered
before in these pages. As to the
missiles themselves, the
“Financial Times” lists four
“basic types”:
“Two, surface-to-air and air-
to-air, are primarily defensive
weapons; the remaining two,
air-to-surface and surface-to-
surface, are primarily offensive.
It is towards the two defensive
Behrendt in Amsterdam “Algemeen Handelsblad"
“AFTER YOU, SIR.”
types that Britain’s initial effort
is being directed.
“The air-to-air missile is a
replacement for the unguided
rockets carried by fighter-
aircraft, with two important
advantages. In the first place,
the fighter may ‘stand-off’
outside the effective gunnery
range of its quarry ; second, the
guided-missile can make possible
a high percentage of kills, under
conditions of speed and altitude
in which it would be very difficult
for the pilot of a manned aircraft
to bring guns to bear on the
target at all.
“The ground-to-air missile is
designed to replace the manned
fighter-aircraft. Its major feature
is the great speed at which it can
engage the enemy. It is generally
boosted by rocket motors, in a
matter of seconds, up to its
cruising speed of some 1500
m.p.h. or more, the booster
rockets then being jettisoned.
“The servo-mechanisms which
operate the missile’s controls are
designed to function at a speed
which makes it possible for the
attacking missile, which has
already outclimbed its target, to
outmanoeuvre it, too.”
British Planes for U.S.
The purchase by an American
airline company of 40 British
planes—Vickers Viscount turbo-
prop transports—has moved
“U.S. News and World Report*
to ask: “Is Britain taking the
civil-aircraft market away from
the U.S.? Are British jets dis-
placing American piston-engined
planes?”
The buying company is the
fifth-largest in America, and its
purchase represents the first time
since the 1920’s that a major
U.S. airline “has gone outside
the U.S. to buy a fleet of
airliners”:
“This big order is hailed with
jubilation in Britain. It brings
$45 million to that dollar-hungry
nation. It gives British products
a toehold in the world’s biggest
aviation market. It also adds to
the growing rivalry between U.S.
and British aviation industries.
“Britain is trying to become
the dominant power in civil
aviation by blanketing the
world’s airlines with British
equipment. It is making its bid
for leadership with sleek new
turbo-prop and pure-jet airliners.
With the [latest] order, Britain
now has sold more than 180 of
these new-type planes.
“By contrast, the U.S. has not
yet produced a single turbo-prop
or pure-jet airliner for sale. The
Boeing Airplane Company is
testing a promising new pure-jet
transport, designed as an Air
Force tanker-plane\ An airliner
version is coming.
“On the face of things, the
United States stands now about
where Britain was in 1950, as
far as commercial jets are con-
cerned. U.S. leads Britain in
military jet-planes, however, and
in the production of tested pure-
jet engines of high power.
“There is no U.S. turbo-prop
plane to compare with the
Viscount, which already has
made a good record in 18 months
of use on European airlines.
“Britain’s lead in turbo-props
is fhus secure to date. In pure-
jels, Britain’s initial advantage
has dwindled because of its bad
luck with the De Havilland
Comet I.
“In the U.S., Boeing is just
beginning tests on its new pure-
jot transport, the ‘707.’ But
Boeing has made hundreds of
B-47’s—six-engine jet-bombers—
and they have set an excellent
safety record. A larger Boeing
jet-bomber, the B-52, has passed
all tests, and first production
units are coming out. With this
background, Boeing actually has
had more experience with jet-
plane design and manufacture
than any British company.
“Pratt and Whitney engines


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO VALERIE MAY BOHLE late of 104
Belmont Street Alexandria in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN ALEXANDER BOHLE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3486 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th day of March 19fifi and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from R. H. RICHARDS. Solicitor, 2nd
Floor, Manchester Unity Building, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—O. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Z-my
*
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
REMOTE-CONTROL
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established Itiuu in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas*’ has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ONTHEMOVE
hydraulic control of trailing implements
Now you can accurately control your
McCormick International trailing implements
merely by finger-tip operation of a lever placed
just below the steering wheel of your tractor.
This lever, which controls the engine driven
hydraulic pump actuates the remote-control
cylinder mounted on the implement giving
positive 2-way depth control.
Standard A.S.A.E., S.A.E. 2-pin mounting
enables the McCormick International cylinder
to be changed from one machine to another in
minutes, ensuring new ease and efficiency for
such jobs as disc harrowing, ploughing, scarify-
ing, seeding and harvesting.
See your local IH dealer today!
GL-9A harrow with hydraulic cylinder.
. r
■fy-Sfy:- [-A
m
> 3
m e
s ■
GL-32 scarifier with hydraulic cylinder
; **
s
s»
GL-90 plough with hydraulic cylinder.
<' '' '& < ’*{„ ' - ' ' & /-/
1 mxwmmm
Wmm
'Wii:
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA).
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
used in Boeing jets have proven
power and reliability, too, and
are in successful mass-
production. So a Boeing jet-
liner may be the final winner,
despite a late start, in the race
with Britain’s Comets.
“Douglas Aircraft Company,
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
and Consolidated Vultee Aircraft
Corporation are working on jet-
transports.
“The civilian U.S. market and
the export market are vital to
the U.S. aviation industry. Its
prime customers are the armed
forces, whose brders support the
industry. Yet the civilian and
export markets are not small —
more than $l6OO million-worth
of civilian planes and parts have
been sold since 1949. For any
nation, national prestige and
defence factors also are entwined
in civilian aviation.
“About nine out of 10 piston-
engine transports flying today are
American-made. The jet market,
however, is wide open, and
Britain is capturing first sales.
That will mean an enormous
competitive advantage, if the
process continues.”
With its big sale of Viscounts
to the American company, the
“U.S. News and World Report”
concludes, Britain has really
invaded the U.S. backyard and
U.S. aviation is stinging a little
over it.
Indo-China
In editorial comment on
developments in the Communist-
held section of Indo-China—
enlargement and modernisation
of the Vietminh Regular Army,
which promises to make it a
stronger fighting force than could
be mustered in combination by
the Siamese Army, the British
troops in Malaya and the French
in southern Vietnam —London
“Daily Telegraph” notes *‘too
wide a disposition to assume, or
hope, that because an interna-
tional commission is on the spot
and a plebiscite is to be held in
1956, all will be well”:
“If the Communists in the
north are behaving with outward
correctness, that is because de-
velopments in the south promise
to give them easy ascendancy
over the whole country.
“The present Vietnam
Administration is rent by private
faction and discredited by cor-
ruption. If a plebiscite were held
now, it would unquestionably be
in favor of Vietminh.
“Any hope of getting a
different answer in 1956 depends
on swift and vigorous reforms
in the south. Otherwise the Com-
munists will fall heirs to the
whole country and all that has
been poured into it —including
great stores of arms.”
Disarmament
On the surface the proposal
that the free world must go on
arming before any real progress
can be made towards disarma-
ment is like something out of
Alice, but, as with a good deal
of Alice, it is very difficult to
argue otherwise.
As London “Economist” puts
it, “a totalitarian Power might,
indeed, readily accept a disarma-
ment plan without foolproof
controls, in the confident know-
ledge that its antagonists would
be prevented from violating their
pledges by their own democratic
institutions; Parliamentary
Oppositions and a free press
could be relied on to prevent the
democracies from secretly re-
building their armies, air-forces
and atomic stockpiles.
“But a State with a policy of
total ‘top-secrecy’ bears no such
fetters. There seems no way of
dealing with it other than a well-
prepared international inspec-
torate free to go wherever it
pleases, and to give the alarm
the moment it detects clandestine
activity. The Russians have a
long way to go before they
accept that.
“Yet it would be wrong to
draw conclusions of unrelieved
gloom. The whole record shows
that, when the free world was
weak, the Communists’ only
conception of disarmament was
a grossly one-sided one. It has
become less so as the West has
pulled nearer to equality. If the
free nations achieve the new
strength that Western European
Union offers them, real progress
towards world disarmament is
quite conceivable. *
“The abandonment of the
West’s present plans would, on
the other hand, be the one thing
most likely to shut off further
Soviet concessions like a tap, and
to relegate to oblivion all hope
of general disarmament in our
age.”
Soviet Shopping in U.S.
Before it was lately revised,
the U.S. list of goods banned
from sale to Russia totalled 1450
“strategic” items; since the
revision only 787 items remain
vetoed. The Russian agent, of
course, still has to get an export-
licence, but present U.S. policy
is “to approve export-licences
for many borderline cases.”
Hence, a Russian agent can
now go to all kinds of U.S.
markets hitherto closed to him.
He can, for instance, as the “U.S.
News and World Report” sets it
out, “go directly to U.S.
factories and buy most types
of machine tools, the biggest
single need of the Soviet arms
industry today.”
“The ban is still on for
ammunition, bombs and guns,
but he can order chemicals
such as acetone, used in making
ammunition, or several types of
alcohol used in the manufacture
of explosives.
“He can go to Detroit and
pick up whole fleets of military
trucks, finished automobiles and
tractors. The ban is completely
off here, except for models with
multiaxle drive.
“Locomotives are available,
too, with no questions asked.
He can buy new diesel, steam or
electric types—everything except
turbine models. There is hardly
any form of military transport,
in fact, that is kept out of reach.
“Military aircraft, as such,
cannot be bought by the agent
of Russia. But some aviation-
training equipment is available.
So are portable aircraft-hangars.
Fuel for aircraft, as well as tanks
and trucks, can be processed,
too, from petroleum products
that the Russian can buy in the
U.S.
“Aluminium ores and concen-
trates, essential for making
military aircraft, also can be
bought by the Russian agent in
the U.S.
“Air - bases and aircraft-
factories both can be built with
construction machinery, which
he is free to buy from U.S. firms.
Under the new policy, he can
place orders for concrete-pavers,
self - propelled graders, soil-
compactors, power-excavators,
huge concrete-mixers, power-
cranes, even off-the-road haulage
vehicles used in constructing
roads —and airfields—in a hurry.
“Metals for making munitions
of all kinds—tanks, guns, ships,
planes, ammunition —are made
available to the Russian buyer as
well. Fabricated metal products,
in great demand by Russia, can
be picked up in many cases under
new regulations. Things such as
metal tools and basic hardware,
banned only a few weeks ago,
can be bought by the agent now.
So can portable bridges, useful in
many military operations. Steel
tanks, railroad tracks, fabricated
steel products of a wide variety
are specifically released from the
embargo-list.
“Rubber, once high on the list
of banned goods, now can be
bought by the Russian agent in
many forms. Uranium is off to
the Russian buyer, but he’ll find
that mining equipment, able to
dig uranium ore as well as coal,
has become available as of now.
“Medicines, including most of
the ‘miracle’ drugs, now come off
the list of strategic goods as well.
Among other things, the agent
can buy up unlimited amounts of
streptomycin and penicillin, as
well as all forms of sulfonamide
drugs and sulfadiazine.
“Hundreds of other categories
of goods become available, too.
Bullet-proof glass, cement for
high-temperature oil-well-drilling
operations, several varieties of
synthetic fabrics, big oil-storage
tanks, some steam - turbine
generator-sets, quantities of tele-
phone equipment, several types
of textile machinery, parts for
‘military watercraft’ and many
industrial chemicals, available in
bulk.
“Even U.S. Army and Marine
Corps field uniforms are off the
list of strategic goods now, and
can be bought from U.S. surplus
stores by the Russian agent.


The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 15 h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-olf.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
'guillotined I
DISTRIBUTORS
Sawbench
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd.. 115 York St.. Launceston.
S. Aust.: A. M. JOHNSON & SONS Ltd., 200/204 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Teles: W 1495 and 1824.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Lawnmowef
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for tm&wpr*
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER. DUSTER, DISC HARROWS.
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lignO“g> elc -
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
I Distributor)
■ Please post me, free, details of the FARMS
* BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
j- Name
I Address
I
:::
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
MERRINDALE
THE official opening of Merrin-
dale, the 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
biological research-station at
Croydon (Vic.), was a grand
affair: sunlight pouring from an
unlikely sky, just about everyone
who was anyone in agriculture
and related arts and sciences
flowing in smoothly regulated
droves through laboratories,
sheep-pens, glasshouse, library,
toying with caviare savouries and
sherry under gay canvas, sitting
down to a luncheon decorated
with an orchestra, champagne,
cigars.
All this pomp and bubble was,
of course, merely the
ceremonious dramatisation of the
sober background of research,
here and overseas; of the
property itself, and of the £BO,OOO
already invested there. Over a
period of several days, writer had
an opportunity to learn some-
thing about this background. In
the meantime . . .
The high official-table was a
sort of stage, with an interesting
cast. Far left, Dr. I. F. Phipps,
technical - manager of the
biological division of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., and the man to
whom a major share of credit
for the establishment of Merrin-
dale is given. It is necessary to
know something about the
administrative set-up of the
company to appreciate his part
in the scheme of things. Of that,
more later. Qualifications?
Graduate of Melbourne Uni-
versity (Agr. Sc.); on the staff at
the Waite Institute, M.Sc.; three
years at Cornell and Ph.D.; back
to Adelaide as Plant Geneticist
and Plant Breeder at Waite;
breeder, among other varieties
of wheat, of Warigo. Joined
1.C.1.A.N.Z. in 1945. Elected
Federal president of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural
Science for 1945.
Talking to him. Professor
Wadham, of Melbourne Uni-
versity’s Faculty of Agriculture.
There are professors here in
abundance, and scientists, heads
of departments, Parliamentarians,
chairmen of producers’ organisa-
tions, chairmen of this, that and
the other. But S. M. Wadham
is a professor for whose opinions
I have a peculiar respect, having
quoted them recently on this
page; moreover, I recognised
him.
More faces, doubtless distin-
guished, and F. J. D. Thomas,
head of the station, a quiet, pipe-
smoking Englishman who
appeared on the “Personal” page
not long ago. Formerly deputy-
head and chief entomologist of
1.C.1.’s Hawthorndale labora-
tories in England, “Tommy” has
specialised mainly in test-
techniques for pesticides,
developing certain novel methods
which aided in the discovery of
“gammexane” early in the war.
In the course of his job he has
visited or worked in over 20
countries, and is specially
interested in certain soil-pests,
locusts and red-spider. AIR.C.S.,
B.Sc.
Sir John Teasdale, chairman
of the Australian Wheat Board.
In the centre, behind a battery of
microphones. Sir lan Clunies
Ross, boss of C.5.1.R.0., dark
polished head with an exact
middle parting; head bent in
animated confab, with the
shorter, rougher, grey one of Dr.
Alexander Fleck, chairman of
1.C.1. (U.K.); K. G. Begg, chair-
man of 1.C.1.A.N.Z.; Senator
Spicer, Commonwealth Attorney-
POTTER TOWER
General, representing the Prime
Minister.
A solid bank of notables
extending to dim distances of
white, flower-decked table.
Notables and newspapermen,
public-relations people and
cameras at lower tables, all hand-
somely provided. Iced asparagus
succeeding chicken and ham,
chased by something else.
Music.
On top of such entertainment
it would seem unreasonable to
demand good speeches. But, in
point of fact, two of them—Dr.
Fleck’s and Clunies Ross’s —
were very good indeed; each in
his separate fashion. A pity Mr.
Menzies wasn’t there to complete
a symposium of quite unexpected
brilliance Senator Spicer
regretted his absence. He
regretted the absence of two
other Ministers, either of whom,
he felt, would have been more
competent to speak on the
occasion than himself; since,
unfortunately, he knew nothing
about agriculture. He thought
the project a good thing, wished
it well, and paid a compliment to
the quiet, unobtrusive work of
scientists in general. That, near
enough, was the Attorney-
General’s speech, and if it left
something to be desired in style
and content, it was, anyway,
refreshingly frank.
The main impressions one has
of Dr. Fleck are vitality, gusto
and absolute naturalness. In a
few weeks he has seen more of
Australia than most Australians
see in a lifetime. Recently down
from the northern cattle-country,
he was off that evening to Tas-
mania. A product of Glasgow
University, he had worked his
way through 1.C.1. laboratories
to the top position in that vast
organisation, with nothing but
brains and determination to help
him. As Begg said, in his intro-
ductory speech, such a record
could be an inspiration to anyone
in the Australian concern —“The
chairman of 1.C.1. is the chief
executive,” he added quietly.
The point was well taken.
Clunies Ross and Fleck were
the stars and a contrast —rapier
and broadsword. Clunies Ross,
scientist turned administrator,
with the poise of a diplomat;
Fleck, stocky, broad-shouldered,
a force. And, of course, an
administrator and scientist, too:
I may say [Fleck speaking] that I
was for many years associated with
1.C.1.’s agricultural interests in the
United Kingdom, during which time I
learned that for a country’s economy
to be sound, its agriculture must be
sound —a lesson which it took two
major wars for us to learn.
I trust that here in Australia your
desire for greater industrialisation will
never lead you into underestimating
the importance of your agriculture or
into ignoring the necessity for con-
tinuous improvement in all phases of
agricultural production.
If there is to be continuous improve-
ment, then adequate attention must be
given to research and development. It
must be a continuous and sustained
effort. Research, by its very nature,
cannot be a seasonal affair which
varies with the wool-clip, or any other
variable, from year to year; nor can
the financial benefits of any particular
level of research expenditure be
increased directly. In one sense the
amount spent on research is a measure
of one’s faith in the future.
In a sense Merrindale was a
continuation of research already
undertaken by the Australian
company: “Biological research
has been carried on by
1.C.1.A.N.Z. for a number of
years, but it has been on a very
modest scale. In the main,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. has up to now used
the biological-research facilities
of 1.C.1. in Britain—in particular
the Hawthorndale research-
station, our British headquarters,
which has specialised in the
agricultural aspects of biological
work.”
Now, 1.C.1.A.N.Z. would have
its own research facilities, where
specifically Australian problems
could be tackled, and where
products developed overseas
could be tested against Aus-
tralian conditions, and, if satis-
factory, could be on the market
more quickly. The British chair-
man emphasised the necessity for
a* strong local —that is, Aus-
tralian development, but
warned against any possible
tendency to be too local —that
is, Victorian. “Without a broad
sample of Australian conditions,
results would tend inevitably to
be of limited significance.”
What was necessary was col-
laboration with C.5.1.R.0.; the
State Department of Agricul-
ture ; the Universities ; individual
farmers and graziers; and a good
deal of field-work, over a wide
sweep of Australia, by
1.C.1.A.N.Z. technical-officers.
Merrindale represented the
logical development in Australia
of what 1.C.1. had been doing
in the U.K., “namely, the very
deliberate association of
biological research with straight-
forward chemical research
within the same organisation.
To give you an example of
what I mean, every new
chemical compound produced or
discovered in our chemical-
research laboratories is passed
on to Hawthorndale for routine
screening as to its effect on plant-
and insect-life. It was as a result
of such screening that the staff
at Hawthorndale appreciated the
biological importance of
benzene-hexachloride (8.H.C.).”
Touching expenditure, Clunies
Ross pointed out that 1.C.1. in
Britain spent twice as much on
research as C.5.1.R.0. did
throughout Australia. He said
that the establishment of a
research-station by a commercial
firm in Australia was very
welcome: it would free
C.5.1.R.0. men from a certain
amount of testing, for one thing,
and, in any case, was a lead
which might profitably be fol-
lowed by other concerns. Apart
from fundamental research, there
is, it seems, a considerable time-
lag between discoveries and their
commercial development due to
the absence of trained research-
workers in industry. He hoped,
smiling, that some such develop-
ment might lead to a rise in the
salary of C.5.1.R.0. workers —
but a thought, where were all the
trained men to come from?
Looking around he saw a fair
number of familiar faces —
former C.5.1.R.0. people on the
1.C.1.A.N.Z. pay-roll.
Lightly put, but it’s a thought.
There is, I understand, already
a brisk demand for recent
graduates in agricultural-science,
veterinary-science, etc., of the
calibre required for research.
Honors graduates of any faculty
are, in the nature of things, rare
(especially rare in veterinary-
science: but here, perhaps, the
high standard set by the fact that
there are only two veterinary
schools in Australasia tends to
cancel the anomaly), and salaries
offered by State and Common-
wealth departments are not over-
attractive. /
The two principal speakers,
between them, delineated the
abstract Merrindale —the idea—
in bold outline. The physical
property is some 140 acres of
undulating land 18 miles east of
Melbourne, at the foot of the
Dandenong range. Soil is heavy
—podsolic—and average rainfall
is 35in.
Of late years the place has run
a dairy herd, with some fattening
on the side. Apart from fencing,
and planting many more varieties
of trees (for experimental
purposes) in an existing orchard,
most of the work has been con-
centrated on the laboratories,
glasshouse, etc.
A fairly new red-brick house
has been converted into offices
and library. The laboratory-
block is north of the offices.
Experimental work will have
priority, but pasture-improve-
ment and beef-cattle seem the
likely developments on the
farming side.
A pretty place, fairly high,
with pines. Drive, shrubs, car-
park and the like have been
added . . .
The laboratory-block is, at
first sight, a bit disappointing.
That is, it isn’t big—about 140 ft.
by 40ft. There is a wide central
corridor, with entrances at five
points. As one penetrates it, the
place becomes more impressive.
Huge windows take up most of
the southern wall, giving
adequate light; fluorescent light-
ing for night, or dull days. It all
looked very functional and


Marquis
POLYTHENE PIPE
TAKES WATER
WHERE YOU
WANT IT!!
Sizes—
|in. to 2in. BORE
M.
a.
Takes Standard Compression-type Fittings
Easily laid by Mole Plough or in Furrow
• LIGHT IN WEIGHT
• EASY TO JOIN AND
HANDLE
• LONG LENGTHS SAVE
TIME AND MONEY
• NON-TOXIC
• CORROSION RESISTANT
• FROST RESISTANT
• GREATER FLOW FROM
SMALLER BORE
If not Obtainable at your Local Store write to
COMMONWEALTH MOULDING PTY. LTD.
242 Prince’s Highway, Arncliffe, N.S.W.
This shed has everything
to make shearing
C~££~
&
;:vV >
the new 1955 model A.S.P. SHEARING SHED
Now with a 3ft. eaves overhang these new, A.S.P. Shearing Sheds give
you cool, well-ventilated, working conditions, completely protected from
the weather. Carefully placed windows and skylights provide adequate
natural lighting. Properly laid out sheep-holding areas, well-placed chutes,
and easily operated sliding gates all help to speed up shearing. Supplied
complete with internal fittings, loading ramps, fully enclosed steel chutes,
etc., and erected by a skilled A.S.P. Erection Team.
For full details of this, or any other A.S.P. Building shown here cut
out this advertisement, fill in your name and address, and put
a mark beside the buildings you are interested in. Full
information will be sent by return mail.
i" oi> 23
iSSfiftSSS
sizes, a ®£ e of
r tbree
° n e;
duties
H^rr
uujnbw-° u ®| any
W ash.„ men
gullet s, etn ° s,
a W
m *
D
P T Y. LTD.
AUSTRALIAN STEEL
PREFABRICATIONS
IST Bays water Boad, Busheutters’
Bay. N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the build-
ing(s) I have marked above.
Name
Address ~T r
Telephone: FA 6595, FA 7825.
Telegrams: "Chatspa,” Sydney.
8.12.54
modern; color, polyvinyl-
chloride floor-tiles, blond-wood
fittings.
Our party was whisked
through fairly smartly (another
group was just behind), but we
had time to ask the white-coated
demonstrators the obvious ques-
tions. But, in point of fact,
apart from the interesting equip-
ment, there wasn’t a great deal
to see —the reason being that
work hasn’t really started there
yet. It was, after all, an opening
ceremony.
This seems as good a place as
any to glance at the commercial
background. The biological
division of 1.C.1.A.N.Z. is a
large and expanding one. It
would need to be to justify the
expenditure of establishing and
maintaining a research-station.
The biological division is part of
the chemical group, the other
division of which is general
chemicals. Until the advent of
chlorinated insecticides, the
company was not interested in
the sale of other than bulk
chemicals. But the chlorine
industry was a comparatively
new one in Australia, and, at the
time, the company was not in a
position to market these
chemicals in any great volume.
There were two alternatives : to
manufacture and sell in bulk to
makers, or to take a direct
interest in end-use.
It was decided to adopt the
latter course. The reasons seem
fairly obvious. The newer
chemicals were tricky, and
inexpert compounding could
damage the supplier, who, once
the chemicals were sold, had no
control over the secondary
manufacturer.
The company went ahead with
its manufacture of the complex
chemicals, and, at the same time,
put its own products on the
market. Relatively early, it had
been decided to build up a strong
technical team, as an assurance
that the newer chemicals were
used properly, and to carry out
extension work. The technical
men were not salesmen, and
special care was taken to foster a
tradition of scientific objectivity
in this branch. Although, as it
happens, many of the higher
executives are drawn from the
technical branch. This, I
imagine, is a tradition of the
parent company.
Very large sums were invested
in the manufacture of the newer
chemicals in Australia —some
millions in plant alone—and it
became increasingly important
to keep abreast of the technical
problems, and, in fact, to
strengthen the entire division.
The biological division splits
into two, with the technical
manager, Dr. Phipps, on one
side, the commercial manager,
N. E. H. Caldwell, on the other.
The technical-services branch
comes under the technical
LAYING PLASTIC PIPING (see “Field Day at Orange")
manager, and so does Merrin-
dale research-station. There are
other refinements and sub-
divisions, but the place and
emphasis of Merrindale be-
come more clear.
It is the first single station
in Australia where, simul-
taneously and on the same
location, research into plant-
pests and diseases, weeds and
animal parasites will take place.
It is the only research-station of
this kind established in Australia
by a private company. As Dr.
Fleck remarked, any compari-
son with the research work of
C.5.1.R.0. would be unrealistic.
Still, as he also remarked,
“Merrindale is part of the 1.C.1.
structure.” And 1.C.1., Ltd,,
probably maintains the largest
group of biological research-
stations operated by any one
company in the world.
Activities of the station come
under four main headings:
Entomology : Insect pests of
growing crops and stored grain.
Mycology : Fungus ; bacterial
and virus diseases of crops and
plants.
Botany: Weed problems and
the use of plant hormones.
Veterinary Science: Internal
and external parasites.
Looking at the equipment
again, so to speak, in retrospect,
it became more impressive. The
microdrop-syringe, for instance,
an instrument not unlike a
microscope to look at, about
which, to my mind, everyone
made an unwarranted fuss. It
had a pedigree: so-and-so had
worked on it, such-and-such
had been perfected at Haw-
aii orndale. Later, back at the
hotel, I asked Brian Fox about
it. Brian is a technical-services
man from Sydney, over for the
opening. Granted the necessity
for something of the kind to
test compounds on insects in the
laboratory, couldn’t something
simpler be devised. I didn’t say
“an eye-dropper,” but the words
flashed through my mind.
Wasn’t such an elaborate
method of destroying individual
insects pure scientific swank?
Brian blinked at me a
moment, obviously searching for
words: simple ones. He ex-
plained the increasing interest
in compounds which would kill
one insect, not another. They
might want to know exact
quantities, which could be
worked out in terms of spray-
volume. And just how the
poison worked, through the feet
... I nodded. I was beginning
to understand. “Or, say, you
want the exact reaction. You
want to place a drop on the
eighth ganglion—nowhere else.
So you adjust .. .” # ‘As fine as
that?” I said. Brian nodded:
“As fine as that.”
Other equipment, of more or
less interest, dependent on per-
sonal taste and experience. The
Potter Tower, a precision spray-
ing device for treating small
batches of insects. Developed
by Dr. C. H. Potter at
Rothamsted (Eng.). A low-
volume. sprayer, designed for the
spraying of small plots, con-
structed from a design de-
veloped at the Beltsville Labora-
tories, Washington (U.S.). B.
de C. Robinson, a young senior
botanist, wheeled it over con-
crete for our instruction.
demonstrating the spray pattern.
Spray-cabinets, an electrode
soil-steriliser, and, no doubt,
other equipment the significance
of which I missed entirely. Con-
stant-temperature rooms, glass-
houses, potting-shed, a bird-
proof house in which plants and
trees can be kept safe, and an
electric-fence for aphids. Simply
a plant in a perspex bowl, with
a charged wire running round
it. This time the idea was to
keep the pests in.
One gathered impressive
statistics on the way. In
the botany section I learned
that weeds caused a loss of
$lOO,OOO a year in the United
States. The whole subject of
weeds is a fascinating one:
weeds in wheat, selective killers,
pre-emergent sprays.
The new systemic fungicides
are interesting. A few fungi-
cides act by moving within the
plant, instead of remaining on
the outside. Specimens seen
were interesting enough, but the
possibilities of these agents for
dealing with hitherto inaccess-
ible fungus diseases seem excit-
ing. But, it was pointed out, too
much should not be expected of
systemic fungicides. When one
considered how much time and
brain-power had been devoted
to medical research, and how
long it took to develop the anti-
biotics, it seemed a bit much to
expect that the systemic fungi-
cides —which the same
function for the plant as peni-
cillin and the like do in the
human body—would be per-
fected first shot, or even second.
A good deal of this pointing-
out and qualification took place
at Derrimut, a 100-acre grazing
property owned by 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
at Deer Park. Derrimut was
the old Morton property,
settled by Richard Morton in
the 1850’s and the home of
Derrimut Shorthorn stud. The
company has revived the name
(Continued on next page)


INCREASE your
pasture profits with
ROTO-RAIN
Sprinkler Pipe
■
■■■:>
mm&WmM
tm urtik-kM mtor
[ohm Cm
until
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT
AMES SYSTEMS
include
TOW-A-LINE
ROTO-RAIN
PERF-O-RAIN
GATED PIPE
and
A.B.C. COUPLED
ACCESSORIES
Have gentle rain wherever you need it for lush, green
pastures that graze more head per acre, more months
of the year. An Ames portable Roto-Rain revolving
sprinkler system can increase . . . even double your
pasture profits through finer forage, more milk, wool
and meat production, plus saving in labour and water.
Your A.8.C.-Coupled Roto-Rain lines are moved in a
matter of minutes. Push, click, the pipe is coupled,
then automatically sealed by water pressure. An easy
twisting pull and it’s uncoupled. No hooks or gadgets.
22° flexibility at each joint. Sturdy aluminium pipe.
df
The Revolutionary
PRESSURE-LOCKING
AMES BALL COUPLER
Makes field connections as easy
as A B C!
For details and free planning service , call or Write us today
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
P.O. BOX 509 10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney. Phone: 8U5095
Branches: Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga & Hay, and at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
GD4B
with a stud of Shorthorns, and
the house is a sort of company
residence, with guest-rooms and
lecture-halls. Rainfall is low,
but they are experimenting with
irrigation from waste-water
from the 1.C.1.A.N.Z. fabrics-
factory, about a mile away. The
water is acid, but is neutralised.
At Derrimut, in informal dis-
cussions and more formal lec-
tures by executives and techni-
cal-services men, a party of
newspapermen from most of the
States, and mostly agricultural,
were given an opportunity to
fill gaps in their knowledge of
what had been going on, ask
questions, and the like. The
tone of the discussion was any-
thing but “boosting.” It was,
rather, a sober analysis of prob-
lems and difficulties, with the
emphasis on the scientific buts.
As for specific projects at
Merrindale, F- J- D. Thomas
said it was too early to know.
The first job was to “run-in”
the place and equipment, get
organised. Already a survey of
the major problems in four
divisions was in train. There
were plenty of problems. When
the survey was complete it
would be a matter of selection
and priority. An important
function would be the testing of
new chemicals —which, on the
average, should mean a saving
of 12 months. There would
probably be a good deal of
“unspectacular” work in the
improving of components, such
as sprays. The research-station
was not, primarily, an advisory
centre, and if they were to get
on with the job some system
would have to be devised—
probably through the technical-
services—to cope with these
matters.
It would be naive to expect
anything spectacular to come
out of Merrindale for some
time yet. Indeed, it is doubtful
whether anything spectacular
does happen in research —at
least, in the way many people
imagine. It is more a careful
putting-together, piece by piece,
of knowledge gained and
shared by scientific workers in
widely separated parts. A
gradual accumulation over the
years. Myxomatosis, for
instance, was no bolt from the
blue, although this in no way
diminishes the value of work
done here by workers in
C.5.1.R.0.
In this sense —in the steady
addition of knowledge to a com-
mon pool—the research-station
at Merrindale is an important
step in our national develop-
ment. No one I talked to would
consent to discuss specific pro-
jects of any magnitude. But
Dr. Fleck, in his speech open-
ing the research-station, referred
casually to two problems which,
during his brief visit, had struck
him as grave ones—the fruit-fly
and the cattle-tick. It is not
improbable that the staff at
Merrindale, in common with
other research-workers, will
give more than a passing
thought to these two.
J. F.
Apple Cover-sprays
“Sundowner”; The march of
science has given apple-growers
a choice of materials for sprays
for the control of black-spot
and “petal-fall,” and for “cover-
sprays.” The Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture advises that
thiram and ziram and the
mercurial sprays P.M.F. and
P.M.C. have all given control of
black-spot of apples as good as
lime - sulphur. Choice must
therefore be made on their rela-
tive cost, damage to trees and
fruit and control of other pests
and diseases.
Mercurials are cheaper than
either thiram or ziram and cause
less leaf- and fruit-damage
than lime-sulphur. However,
they should not be used on trees
in poor health, including those
showing mineral - deficiencies,
and must not be used at all on
pears.
Mercurials should be applied
at strengths recommended by
the manufacturers and not used
later than 10 weeks before pick-
ing the fruit, because of the
danger to consumers of residues.
Thiram and ziram, although
more expensive than the other
materials, are better than lime-
sulphur, which has caused
russeting of Jonathans. Thiram
and ziram are used at Hlb. of
the 80 per cent, powder in
lOOgal, of water; they were
becoming more popular as
calyx- and cover-sprays on
pears, replacing weak Bordeaux.
Lime-sulphur used for petal-
fall (2gal. in 100) and cover-
sprays (Ijgal. in 100) has the
advantage of giving some con-
trol of mites and spiders, but
causes some leaf-burn and fruit-
russet. Weak Bordeaux-sprays
(2:2:100) are effective late in
the season for “summer-spot”
control.
Save That Soil
“Stormy”: Wind - erosion
could be bad on fallows this
summer. Try your hardest to
stop your best soil blowing
away. The best ways to protect
fallows, according to workers at
the Mallee Research Station
(Vic.), are:
1. Leave the fallow as rough
as possible over the summer.
2. Avoid excessive cultiva-
tion —particularly dry working.
3. Plough deep, cloddy ridges
for short-term protection.
4. Don’t work implements—
especially those fitted with
disks —at high speeds.
5. Don’t hold sheep on
fallows after they have cleaned-
up the weeds and other growth.
6. Keep as much soil as
possible on the surface.
7. Sow a light cover-crop in
the spring. Graze it carefully
to eat-off the leaves but leave
the stalks and roots.
8. Treat hills differently from
the flats.
9. On very drifty areas graze
the land instead of ploughing it.
To prevent wind-erosion on
non-cultivated land:
1. Never overstock.
2. Sow rye-corn or some
other cereal on bare land.
3. Patch-up bare patches as
soon as you see them.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
As mentioned by the late Inigo Jones, heavy rains were
indicated: these have been amply substantiated in the south,
though to a much lesser degree in Queensland. This cycle
is being carefully watched, as it may modify the anticipated
drought conditions applicable to next year.
The sun is still clear of spots, although two transitory
sunspots were observed a week ago.
Lennox Walker.
Push-button Farming
“Strollway”; A peep into the
future at the recent conference
on irrigated - pastures and
fodder-crops, in Melbourne :
one expert said it should be
possible to move an electric-
fence by pushing a button back
at the headquarters of the
farm. He went so far as to
suggest that a photo-electric
cell could be fitted to the fence-
line and calibrated to “move”
the wire to a new strip of
pasture when grazing had
reduced the strip being used
to a certain color.
Such predictions might be-
come commonplace practice
sooner than we think.
Cooling Milk
“Big Billy”: Care in the
water-cooling of milk is' an
important aid in the prevention
of deterioration. A bore or
underground storage is the best
way to ensure cool water in the
hottest months.
Ensure that the water is
passed through the cooler at a
sufficient rate —sgals. to 7gals.
of water to Igal. of milk. Regu-
late the flow of milk over the
surface of the cooler in a thin
film. If the milk ripples as it
passes over the cooler it is flow-
ing too fast. See that milk-cans
are cooled before being filled.
Contour Indicator
“C.A.A.”: Victorian farmers
who have used the new Brenaut
contour-indicator to control
soil-erosion agree that it is a
great help in checking erosion
on their properties.
Developed by J. J. Brennan,
of Chari ton j for use with any
tractor, it has demonstrated out-
standing qualities as an aid in
cultivating and ripping on-the-
contour without preparatory
and costly survey. The device is
likely to do much to popularise
soil-conservation.
Mounted on the bonnet of a
tractor, the needle of the indi-
cator shows instantly if the
tractor moves off the level and
warns the driver to steer up-
wards or downwards as the case
might be.
The device has attracted
interest in N.S.W., and tests
conducted by the Soil Conserva-
tion Service in that State showed
that over a run of 900 ft. the
total deviation from true level
was only a little more than 7in.
In this instance the land-slope
was 4 per cent, and the surface
fairly smooth and free from
obstructions.
The report of the trials states
that greater deviation could be
expected on rough ground or
steep slopes, but the instrument
was adequate as a guide for
contour-cultivation. It was not
yet sufficiently developed for
accurately locating permanent
earth-works or orchard-rows.
However, as it does reduce
the number of survey-lines in
the construction of contour-
furrows, it represents a big
advance in methods to simplify
the work of soil-conservation.


KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’* a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too — 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
PORTER AERO TOP DRESSER
The principle of blowing fertilizer over pastures, particularly hilly
or timbered country, is now well established in Australia. Powered
by the 5 H.P. Fetter petrol engine, the Porter discharges 4,000 cub.
ft. of air per minute at a velocity of 120 m.p.h. Maximum delivery
of sto 6 tons per hour. Other uses for the machine include liquid
spraying, fire fighting, dusting of crops and silo loading.
THE PORTER ROTARY MOWER. This amazing machine uses
three 8-bladed cutters and gives a full Oft. cut. This mower operates
on a rotary principle. It can be Connected to any tractor P.T.O.
and is fully offset. The cutter bar will operate on any angle to
the horizontal, regardless of the position of the tractor.
This machine is suitably adapted for tangled pastures, and will
cut ANY growth to 1 inch diameter, with a cutting height range
from ground level to 8 inches.
For transport this machine swings back in line to the tractor,
enabling it to pass easily through narrow gateway. It cuts at full
tractor speed and has a wide range of application such as crops
(including lucerne), as well as bracken, sword grass, tussocks,
tea tree, blackberry, etc.
THE PORTER PNEUMATIC SILO
LOADER. Designed for loading of
silos up to 24ft. in height. This
machine will load wheat into the
average silo at the rate of 2J to 3
bags per minute. Grain is fed into
the air stream in front of the
blower blades, avoiding damage to
the material. Complete with suffi-
cient ductwork to fill a 24ft. silo
and with pulley ready to connect
to tractor or engine.
Write now for full details
of these machines to:
the manufacturers:
G. M. PORTER PTY.
LTD.,
639 Pacific Highway,
CHATSWOOD, N.S.W.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
WATER
T - * w
RETICULATION
ON FARM
ON STATION
-7
0% „ *.
« o i
-
&
rgood/Vear|
POLYTHENE
LPIPING
is the
economical
answer!
Goodyear Polythene Piping
is a lightweight, flexible,
non-metallic tube with exceptional resistance to corrosion and low
temperature. A new plastic development, it is revolutionising piping
procedure. With Polythene, installations can be made with a 60%
saving in time and labour over metal piping. Being flexible it can
be delivered in rolls, thus saving transportation costs, and for the
same reason it can follow curves and contours eliminating the need
for elbows. Resistant to acids and strong alkalis, it is far more durable
than ordinary piping.* Scale, lime and resinous substances will not
adhere to the inner walls, maximum flow (in any case up to 30%
greater than with metal piping) is maintained throughout the life of the
pipe. Goodyear Polythene Piping is available for immediate delivery.
Goodyear Polythene Piping was dramatically
demonstrated at the recent Orange Field Day.
From the interest displayed by Pastoralists and
others, it is clearly indicated that this piping will
have a wide and varied application in agricultural
and other industries.
For further information please contact the nearest
Goodyear Branch or Distributor.
df
FIELD DAY AT ORANGE
'T'O say machinery field-days
are becoming increasingly
popular, that they reflect the
times, and that they have sprung
up all over the country, is to
perpetrate a compound truism.
Everyone knows these things.
For all that, the evidence is
sometimes a bit overpowering.
Take the Orange (N.S.W.)
field-day. Three years ago the
first one was held on Kyalla
Park, and an estimated 5000
people saw it. Last year an
estimated 10,000 attended the
field-day on another property,
and this year, on 60 acres of the
Dalton estate, the number had
further climbed by over 2000.
Writer was impressed, not so
much by the numbers, as by the
keenness of spectators. The
extension into the second day
was a good idea: it gave more
time for demonstrations. The
organisation—by a voluntary
committee—was admirable, and
the weather, for most purposes,
excellent. The demonstration of
aerial topdressing suffered some-
thing, perhaps, from a wind. But,
if this were so, it was a private
misfortune.
There was color enough—reds,
yellows, greys, blues of various
makes and varieties of machinery
against green. Machinery of all
agricultural types including
earth-moving machinery—was
fairly well represented, but
pasture-improving and fodder-
conservation machinery were
particularly prominent this year.
What one is impressed by, on
such an occasion, is often a
matter of personal leanings and
chance. One cannot see every-
thing at the same time. But, of
the tractors, the Nuffield did
particularly well, in this
observer’s opinion. A chisel-
plough from Melbourne, with
tynes digging to varying depths,
caught my eye; likewise the
Porter rotary-mower, which cuts
heavy growth very efficiently.
The new plastic piping (illus-
trated on page 31) looked
interesting; it can be run out
fairly simply from a tractor. A
variety of bulk-handling equip-
ment, sod-seeders, ploughs of all
types, tractors (about 200 of
them were photographed on the
move), irrigation-plant. In fact,
just about everything.
The usual demonstration of a
season’s cultivation compressed
into a day followed the pattern
indicated by the diagram on
next page; ploughing, cultiva-
tion, seeding, topdressing, mow-
ing, raking, baling of hay.
Exhibitors were from Queens-
land, Victoria, South Australia
and, of course. New South
Wales. The main firms exhibit-
ing, directly or through agents,
were:
Ferguson, with the usual
extensive range of power-farming
equipment; 25 tractors. Each
Ferguson tractor was fitted with
a different type of Ferguson
equipment. New units included
a low-volume spray, multi-
purpose blade, reversible single-
furrow plough, together with
centrally-mounted mower and
concrete-mixer.
Nuffield tractors (10, diesel and
kerosene) operated various types
of equipment. Implements
included a 13-tyne stump-jump
cultivator, five- and four-furrow
mouldboard ploughs, stump-
jump ploughs worked off
hydraulic - system, front - end
loaders, scoops, rotary-hoes,
chisel-point ploughs and rippers.
Fordson had 12 tractors, diesel
and kerosene. They operated an
11-tyne cultivator with seedbox,
rear- and front-end dozer-blades,
mowers, rotary-hoe, three-furrow
disk-ploughs, a “Woods” rotary-
cutter, front- and rear-end
scoop, rippers and posthole-
diggers.
“Caterpillar” tractors, D 2 and
D 4. The D 4 tractor is fully
equipped with hydraulic angling
and tilt-blade. Waugh and
Josephson, N.S.W. agents,
Incidentally, it was the 50th
anniversary of the crawler-type
tractor. Also on display were
rigid - tyne cultivators and
bulldozer-blades.
John Deere tractors and equip-
rnent were demonstrated by a
local agent. Machines included
a forage-harvester, pick-up baler,
side-delivery rake, Hammer
m iH, chisel-ploughs, disk-tiller,
potato-digger and roughage mill,
Eighteen David Brown tractors
were demonstrated by an Orange
agent; also 40 implements.
other machines on exhibit were
“Rmatk” mid-mnnnted
“‘ wer , B “Cna.dZ . jSS?
turbo - mist orchard - spray,
“Conquip” bale-loader and a full
range of Mobil products. “Case”
tractors, hay - balers, A.C.
combine. Field Marshall and
Fowler tractors were also dis-
played by a local agent.
International Harvester Co.
had a combined Central West
agency exhibit. It included 10-
wheel and crawler-type tractors,
spring- and rigid-tyne cultivators,
GL9O and GL7I ploughs, also
GL3OO and 321 (three-point
linkage); mowers, balers, side-
delivery rake, disk-harrows, a
three-point linkage-scoop, dozer-
blade.
H. V. McKay-Massey Harris
equipment included 55K, 55D,
744 and 44K Massey Harris
tractors, “Sunshine” pick-up
baler, wire-type, “701” twine-
type Massey Harris baler, “Sun-
shine” mower and power take-off
side-delivery rake.
Chamberlain Industries had
three tractors; Motor Tractors
showed the “Twin City” model
G tractor and the “Twin City”
Bale-o-matic.
Howard Auto Cultivators had
eight “Terrier” rotary-hoes, three
(Continued on next page )


DEAN FARM TIPPER
2 TON CAPACITY
The Farm Trailer with the Twin Wheel that
DOES NOT BQG
Price: £155
Complete with Tyres & Tubes
U Ton
Capacity
a
Single 650 x 16 tyres and tubes.
Price: £127/10/-
Manufactured by—
F. E. DEAN
17 Ascot Road, Bowral.
Welding
Works
Phone: 444
Presenting
A NEW TRACTOR
0
THE FORDSON MAJOR
AND A NEW SHOWROOM
AND DISPLAY AREA
Our new premises at Parramatta Road, Lidcombe
allow us to show you the tremendous range of
FORDSON FARMING AND EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
SUN COMPANY PTY. LTD
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR FORDSON TRACTORS & EQUIPMENT
Cnr. PARRAMATTA RD. ami JOHN ST. LIDCOMBE
Phone YX3O6
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HVGEIA DiSSOLVEHATOR
Gives you the advantages «/ eewerage **
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
d
NO FLIES
NO
emptying
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal itl
She treated sterile sewerage 1»
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 85 years.
Write for free illustrated pampbk l -
-
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator DisbCo.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. SyOney
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dißßolvenatot
(Q’land), Sanders House. 116
ham St.. The Valley. Bns»
VICTORIA: Hygeia gt.,
(Vic.), Pty.. Ltd., 460 CoUum b
Melbourne. t}; s ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hjgela D
eolvenator Co. (S.A-). C.M.LhuUQ
ing. King William St., A „ Mc .
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. E-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 44
Hygeia Dissolvenator
Ss.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or W “v C r f
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Lau
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee. Badolectrix
Sales and Services. tHrsoI-
SINGAPORE : L °Bn e tish and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
“Kelpie” garden tractors and
two “Junipr” rotary-hoes.
Baltic Simplex Machinery
demonstrated a standard, rubber-
tyred broadcaster, a six-bag-
capacity utility broadcaster
mounted on rubber-tyred flat-top
trailer, a direct-drop spreader
and a side-delivery rake.
Buzacott were represented by
the “Crump Messmate” broad-
caster and the new “Crump
Willow” broadcaster (right-angle
turnabout 15ft. direct drop).
“Ames” irrigation - plant
demonstrated by Dangar Gedye
and Malloch, who also demon-
strated the Pulv-o-mill hammer-
mill, Hargans Timber Chief saw,
a range of rotary-hoes, utility
shearing- and crutching-plant
and a Lister side-delivery rake.
A.S.P. had a variety of pre-
fabricated units machinery-
sheds, garages, shearing-sheds,
combinations of office and
garage and the like.
1.C.1., Lysaght’s, Grazcos,
Sunbeam, Lightning Distributors,
Yeomans, F. E. Dean, E. A.
Buttsworth, W. Kendall and Co.,
and a number of other firms were
also represented.
Taken all round, a pleasant
couple of days. Legacy handled
the catering.
J. K.
N.Z. Hill-country
In his enthusiasm for aerial
topdressing “Kiwi” paints a
glowing picture of the potentiali-
ties of New Zealand hill-country
(B. 8/9/’54):
One of the big advantages is
that N.Z. hill-country is mostly
fertile —it once carried heavy
bush —and has a high rainfall.
Fertiliser has been the missing
link.
That’s an oversimplification
and —in so far as the basic prob-
lem of this type of country is
overlooked —a dangerous one.
The depletion of the bush
since the advent of the pakeha
has resulted in millions of acres
of eroded hillsides, and the con-
sequent rapid run-off has in-
creased siltage and flooding of
all the rivers in Maoriland.
In this district erosion is per-
ceptible to the naked eye, not
only on the grassed hillsides, but
right through the existing bush.
After half a century of so-
called remedial measures to con-
FIELD PLAN
trol flooding of the Waihou
River, which drains this valley,
costing about £1 million, what
do we find? Well, the floods are
more frequent, higher, take
longer to subside, and the water-
way, which should be a valuable
national asset, is no longer navi-
gable. Fifty years ago ships
came up the Waihou as far as
Matamata.
Lowering of the water-level of
a river channel should be
accepted as a fundamental
requisite *of flood-control. Per
contra, stop-banks raise the
water-level and increase the
hydraulic pressure of a water-
way.
Over 90 per cent, of volume of
water in most rivers originates
from laterals (creeks). They
should be dammed, with sluice-
gates at the bases, and spillways
at the tops. The closing of the
sluice-gates during heavy rain
would hold and slow down the
rapid run-off from the hills.
Stop-banks can be termed
economical, mathematical and
engineering absurdities. The
proof is to be found from China
to Peru, although for centuries
the “experts” have been trying to
prove otherwise.
Erosion and flood-control are
matters of serious concern to
both Australia and New Zealand,
CHARLES SCOTT.
'Hopper-destroyer?
“D.”: Reported on the A.B.C.
news recently that C.5.1.R.0. in-
tends to experiment with ibises
as a means of combating grass-
hopper plagues. The report said
that similar experiments had
been carried out in Russia with
marked success.
Any North Coast (N.S.W.)
farmer can tell the C.5.1.R.0.
that, provided they are numerous
enough, ibises are probably with-
out equal as a means of destroy-
ing ’hoppers. I can recall during
my early years on the Clarence
River seeing flocks of them
wheel in over a paddock on
which the ’hoppers were thick,
spread out in single-file and
march for hours in pursuit of
their prey, driving left and right
with their long bills and catch-
ing every ’hopper that tarried a
moment too long. They caught
up with the wary ones a little
further on ; and after an hour or
two’s intensive work practically
every ’hopper had either been
eaten or driven on to the next
paddock.
The ibises would return next
day and go through adjoining
fields, cleaning out fully 90 per
cent, of the pest. I don’t know
whether the birds are as numer-
ous as they used to be ; but I
am confident that if a few hun-
dred of them could be coaxed
into a ’hopper-infested area they
would soon clean it up.
The domestic turkey is also a
great fellow to let loose among
the ’hoppers. I have seen them
spread out in a long line and
cover a paddock in the same
systematic way as a flock of
ibises. Although a turkey has a
much greater storage-capacity
than an ibis, he is likely to
become lazy after a few days’
feasting among the ’hoppers and
will camp under the shade of
the nearest tree. The ibis never
appears to be satisfied.
Crosscuts
“Trials by the Department of
Agriculture in the Bourke dis-
trict suggest that peanuts may
become a successful commercial
crop there if grown under irri-
gation. It is not generally
realised that the country around
Bourke is capable, when irri-
gated, of producing crops of
outstanding quality.” (N.S.W.
“Agricultural Gazette.”)
♦ * •
“Twenty-five million dollars
have been set aside for research
on farm - mechanisation by
Massey-Harris, Ferguson, Ltd.”
(I. S. Duncan, chairman and
president of the company,
speaking in Sydney after his
arrival from Canada).


LOW NOTES ON A HIGH LEVEL
J, B. Priestley
A FROLIC
Hilarious, satirical, highly entertaining this is a tale of the
English Broadcasting Company and of the "Dobbophone,
which plays the lowest notes ever heard.
At all booksellers - - - 13/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :■■ MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
f
The Ideal Gift
for your SON or GRANDSON
“ROBINSON CRUSOE”
A MAGNIFICENT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
Beautifully Printed and Brilliantly Illustrated
by one of Australia’s Leading Water Colourists.
Available at £2/2/- from your nearest Bookseller or from the Publishers
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty.Ltd. queen st. brisban*
A few copies of a Leatherbound Limited Edition, Numbered and Signed, are available at £5/5/-
The Esquire Treasury
Edited by Arnold Gingrich
The best of twenty years of Esquire
complete In one volume; the essence of
its wit, originality, variety and polish.
Into these sumptuous 656 pages, con-
taining 73 stories and articles, 32 car-
toons, drawings and illustrations (many
of them in colour), the most dazzling
and amusing moments in Esquire’s
history have been condensed. Among
the contributors are Aldous Huxley,
Steinbeck and Hemingway; and the
famous Esquire girls make the most
engaging hostesses. 20/- (post 1/5)
The Scourge of the Swastika
By lord Knssell of Liverpool
This book, by the legal adviser to the
Commander-in-Chief in respect of all
trials of German War Criminals in the
British Zone of occupation, gives a
factual account of the appalling crimes
committed and of the monstrous organi-
sation behind them. It is the tragic
story of twelve million men, women and
children who were done to death, not in
battle but in the cold, calculated and
merciless bid to destroy races, institu-
tions and freedom.
18/9 (post lid.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these and all the books you want —and be sure to ask for our
Christmas catalogue . • .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
:: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
ANNOUNCING A NEW NOVEL BY
THOMAS ARMSTRONG
author of The Crowthers of Bankdam
“Pilling Always Pays”
COLLINS
flowers counterpointing the pink-tipped
fingers and painted palm of her upheld
right hand. Then there are the girls swim-
ming in the lotus-pond, using empty
pitchers as water-wings; and the curious
treatment of the girl’s thigh in “Radha
Bathing,” like a watermelon or an elon-
gated egg.
After this static and formal elegance
the contorted and swirling movement in
the Faber Gallery’s El Greco comes with
a bit of a shock ; not lessened by Roger
Hinks’s new theory that El Greco was
not a fervid religious, but a wit and a
philosopher, with ideas based rather on
Plato than the Bible: he sat in the dark,
saw his compositions as visions or, says
Mr. Hinks, “nightmares.”
It is hard to repress a suspicion that they
appealed only to an avant garde intelligent-
sia, and that a good deal of high-powered
salesmanship and propaganda were needed
to make the average religious Castilian
sw'allow these queer nightmares.
It is also hard not to agree with Hem-
ingway’s theory that, consciously or un-
consciously, El Greco gave to his male
nudes the attention which most painters
give to women; and this would explain
a great deal of the attraction he has for
our age.
In the Faber Gallery’s second volume
of Paul Klee, all paintings, the explana-
tions of Andrew Forge are almost as in-
genious as they make the paintings: there
is no doubt that such things as “Lady
Demon,” “Classic Coast,” “God of the
Northern Woods” and “Ceramic-Erotic-
Religious” breathe some kind of wit; but
is this explained by “behavior of the
line,” “subjects made of patterns,” “pic-
tures meant to be seen from point to point
and not all at once”; or by the half-
recognisable satires on more normal
representations of people and Nature?
One would bet on the literary, or inartis-
tic, interpretation of Klee’s wit; an
evanescent shadow of what is for the
most part done more effectively and
more solidly in Donald Duck.
Which leads us to Breughel in Heine-
mann’s Ars Mundi series of 64 black-
and-white plates and six colored plates
(two pull-out), with an introduction by
Robert L. Delevoy. For a reasonable
price, this is an impressive survey of the
dismal Disney of his day, who gave up
the bird-headed monsters of Hieronymus
Bosch and presented pictures and par-
ables of his times ; the children playing
in the schoolyard, the peasants dancing,
the Spanish oppressors of the Netherlands
murdering-off the inhabitants: the detail-
studies from complete paintings bring
home to the viewer how carefully painted
are these thronged canvases of minute
figures and buildings, right into the
backgrounds. Breughel’s paint-box way
with solid greens, reds and brows, as
in “The Wedding Feast,” brings one,
admittedly, close to what must be purely
aesthetic pleasure.
Lastly Daumier in the same Heine-
mann series, with 64 black-and-white
plates and eight color-plates—well,
although Curt Schweicher argues in his
introduction that it is Daumier’s paint-
ings, more than his lithographs, by which
he should be known, it is by anything of
Daumier’s that the literary-appreciator
comes into his own; those burdened
washerwomen pathetically dragging their
children to work with them; those
smirking lawyers rejoicing over thejr
clients’ heads; those worn travellers in
third-class carriages—they’re literary, but
one feels quite safe in thinking well ci-
thern.
But on one’s wall, a joy for ever? No
“Maybe,” one says to oneself, “all the
artists who ever lived have been trying
to paint just that picture that I would
have on my wall, but until that is done
they will have to hang their failures on
other people’s walls.” —Swilliam.
Reviewed Briefly
Selected Poems: T. S. Eliot (Faber).
This is the “Penguin” selection done in
cloth-covered boards; it cuts down on
the Prufrock (1917) and Poems 1920
books; goes on to The Waste Land, The
Hollow Men, Ash Wednesday, and some
of the “Ariel” poems, and concludes with
six choruses from “The Rock.”
* * * ♦
The announcement of a new poem
by T, S. Eliot, The Cultivation of
Christmas Trees, is the chief point of
interest in a set of “Ariel Poems” from
Faber—after the failure of The Confi-
dential Clerk it would be pleasant to find
Mr. Eliot back in form again in a shorter
piece. However, The Cultivation of
Christmas Trees, possibly to be published
a little later, was not in the set submitted
for review, which comprises poems, all
rather shorter than the previous “Ariels,”
by Louis MacNeice, Stephen Spender,
Edwin Muir and Roy Campbell. Much
the most attractive of these is Spender’s
Sirmione Peninsula, a delightful and
unpretentious love-lyric from Italy.
* * • «
Championship Tennis: Maureen Con-
nolly (Muller). “Little Mo,” who has
“defeated in recent years every leading
woman player in the world,” explains
how to do it, beginning with her prefer-
ence for cotton or sharkskin clothes and
a slightly “head-heavy” racquet. Her
remarks on grips and strokes are illus-
trated with equal space in photographs,
or maybe more so ; and there is a photo-
graph of her with her horse—it was a
horse, was it not, that put her hors de
combat ?
* * * *
The King’s Beard: Leonard Wibberley
(Faber). A letter from his father, a
prisoner-of-war in Spain, sends the young
hero, in company with Sir Walter Raleigh,
to Queen Elizabeth, to apprise her of the
fleet being gathered at Cadiz to invade
Britain. The boy then goes with Drake
to “singe the King of Spain’s beard,” is
pushed overboard, swims ashore at Cadiz,
is arrested, meets his father in prison, and
is rescued while he is being tortured on
the rack. The author is no common
boys’-book adventurer ; on pages 100-101,
for instance, there is a very solid disser-
tation on the loading and firing of Eliza-
bethan cannon.
* * * *
Bolivio: Ottilie H. Reilly (Bell). A
treatise on this “faster, more sparkling”
version of Canasta, played with three
52-card packs and six jokers: 162 cards
in all. Claimed to be a good game for
two players; and the book explains how
it is played by up to six players.
* * * *
The Brownies and Other Stories: Mrs.
Ewing (Dent). Juliana Horatia Ewing
(1841-1885) wrote the title-story in the
1860’s, and fifty years later it suggested
to Baden-Powell the name for the junior
movement of the Girl Guides —it is about
a tailor’s children who learned from
an owl that the elfin brownies are only
children after all. The other stories are
‘Timothy’s Shoes,” “Jackanapes,”
“Amelia and the Dwarfs,” “The Land
of Lost Toys,” “Daddy Darwin’s Dove-
cote” and “Three Christmas Trees.”
This edition is one of the Dent-Dutton
“Illustrated Classics” series, and has
eight colorplates and many line-drawings
by E. H. Shepard.
• * * *
A Lover for Lucia: Charles Humana
(Longmans). A carefully written semi-
allegorical novel set in a small and back-
ward Sicilian village. Lucia Lucchese,
still unmarried in her thirties, and unlikely
to find a husband because she is fat and
plain lives alone with her old blind
father. While working on the small
infertile plot of land they own, a strange
man helps her and returns to the village
that evening. His name, he says, is
Fausto—Lucia’s father agrees to take the
man as a boarder for the money Lucia
sa y S stranger will pay. The stranger
b ecomes Lucia’s lover, and the old father
wanc ie r i n g suspiciously about his cottage
at mght f a j] s downstairs and is killed.
p rom t his time on village hostilities
increase an d crystallise—the priest sees
t hj s sinful couple as symbols of all the
forces of change and disintegration of
belief which threaten the village from
the impinging outside world. Fausto’s
identity and odd philosophy are revealed
(he is not called Fausto for nothing
although this is not merely an old tale
retold), and the village embarks on a
witch-hunt. Thanks to the chie
police—a character with very dm e
loyalties—a happy solution is contrived,
Not a great novel but uncommon and
rewarding enough for entertainment.
“THE BULLETIN CROSSWORD” No. 306
Across
I—Sick during the holiday, inde-
cision being the reason for it.
(11) , ...
6 A comic characteristic of a
happy dog’s tail. (3)
7 Melbourne is often said to be so
arranged—and Sydney people say
that the dead always are. (4, 3)
8 — Winter and high latitudes improve
the supplies for this condition of
the sicker patient’s tongue. (7)
11 — Boy which stands up to many a
personality of the air? (4)
12— Kay about the fellows who are
to proceed like an old motor-boat
in a Ukraine city. (10)
15— Obtained dress in return. (3)
16— Frankly, this is two squared by
five squared and like a loafer.
(8)
20 — Napoleonic battlefield turned into
an object for worship. (4)
21 — Put on a lady from Spain. (4)
23 —Mediterranean islander mentions
one of the non-voting tins. (8)
25—Leave an Indian centre of popu-
lation. (3)
28— Petition designed to evade pos-
sible victimisation for one Sher-
wood outlaw like another (more
pious) one. (5-5)
29 Seabird locates me in the south-
west. (4)
30— Catalogue about the most supple.
(7)
31 —Deduce no batting plant but ring
the underworld with non-fire
arrangements. (7)
33 — X-squared by a capital but very
old mongrel. (3) ...
34 Miss Moncrieff passing behavior
in the hail-fellow-well-met man-
ner. (4-7)
Down
1— The librarian has this wireless
part. (6, 7)
2 Stylish boy is quite a bird. (7)
3 The Goossens who beautifully
blows Coward up. (4)
4 Nevertheless chasing the lot.
(5, 3)
5 Fin may change such evil repute.
(6)
6 Anyone who makes a plane
personality of Kittyhawk. (6)
9 —6-down and this Indo-Chinese
island in the Gulf of Siam might
appear to misspell 10-down. (4)
10—Not left and not right, but a
good conscience distinguishes
them. (5, 3,5)
13— Business place to spot an N.S.W.
goldfield. (5) ..... „
14— This makes a child head off a
kidnapper. (3)
17— French city is willing only to
consume the heart of Quinndi
Jonathans. (5)
18— Central Caledonian boy which
runs through Rostov? (3)
19— German of five to the legside.
(3)
21 — Isdimh. (8)
22 — Victory was had up for the
present. (3)
24 The home of fine French linens.
(7)
25 He fillets a drain. (6)
26 The first letter and the last con-
fused a wood-shaping axe. (4)
27 — She saved the “Merchant”
harbor with one Roman and one
English. (6)
32—This makes a very warm admirer
cooler. (3>
Solution to Crossword No. SOS


; r
V*
4;
1N
\
\
I
/
m
O
:A
m
c
r
/
v»
n
■>^
■m
Cshi'jx
>)«>)
HY
VTA
&
BBS
sS
The New Pioneers
Down on the South Australian-Victorian border there’s an
area called the Ninety Mile Desert on the South Australian
side, and the Big Desert on the Victorian.
The area is not as forbidding as it sounds. It’s without
character, and with no outstanding geographical features.
Mallee, broom and heath, with some stringy bark, cover the
sandy soil-over-clay terrain; no surface rivers or creeks
contribute to the April-October rainfall of between seventeen
and twenty inches.
Not the sort of land you would look at with a kindling eye.
But to men with a sense of national responsibility, the area
was a challenge. That Australia’s waste lands must be trans-
formed into lands capable of food production was a vital
fact that was clearly apparent to all forward-thinking men.
And so the great scheme—unique in its conception—was
started.
Back in 1949, the A.M.P. Society, the great Life Assurance
Company behind the plan, commenced the first clearing
operations. Since that time thousands upon thousands of
acres have been cleared, burnt, ploughed, levelled, ferti-
lized, pastured, fenced and watered. (Underground supplies
of water are good: sub-artesian at between 100 and 180 feet
—first quality for stock.)
But that is the prosaic story. The real story, vivid and warm
with imagination, is that the men employed on the project
are virtually developing their own land
Broadly, this is how it works: employees- —ex-servicemen
mostly—work for wages for a minimum of five years, which
is approximately the time required to develop an area of
land from virgin scrub to the stage where it is ready for
allotment. Having proved his character and ability, each
employee will be given the first offer of a developed farm
with pastures soundly established, worked and fenced, with
house and outbuildings. If necessary, h* will be financially
assisted.
That is the core of the scheme. The first two blocks, each
1,000 acres, were allotted at the end of 1953. They are
stocked and now in production. Backed by financial
resources, encouraged by men with vision, the new pioneers
are going forward, developing each his own land in a vast
co-operative effort of a kind unique in Australian history.
Playing a tremendous part in the scheme are “the big yellow
machines” - Caterpillar track-type Tractors: powerful,
rugged, diesel-operated machines that are clearing, levelling
. . . ’dozing out water holes for stock . , . working in all
weathers, matching the fiery determination of the tough
pioneers—the right, dependable machines in the hands of
men staking out their own claims to the good earth, putting
Australia’s idle lands to work.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
FRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS PEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD..
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WiGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
CNS3.FPB
