

THE HOUSE
w
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE PRIME MINISTER AT WORK -mge 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3868
Wednesday, March 31, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
’NEATH THE SHADOWS OF MOURNE’S MOUNTAINS GREENCASTLE SLUMBERS IN PEACE
THE southern slopes of the Mountains of Mourne rise from the shores of
Carlingford Lough at Kilkeel in County Down. Five miles from this
attractive fishing village and guarding the mouth of the Lough is Greencastle,
which was for many centuries the capital of the Kingdom of Mourne. Later
it became one of the principal strongholds of the Anglo-Normans in County
Down and, although little remains of the original settlement, the massiv
walls of the castle still exist as a reminder of more turbulent days.
The Castle was built in the thirteenth century and, although it is but a ruin
to-day, it is still regarded as a remarkably fine example of the ancient
Norman-Irish stronghold. It was besieged on many occasions and was held
by the Norman De Burgos, Edward Bruce and other invaders. With its twin
fortress, King John’s Castle, on the opposite side of the Lough in Eire, the
entrance to the inlet was effectively guarded from invasion from the sea.
In the eighth and ninth centuries, before the Norman invasion, Carlingford
Lough was well known to the Danish and Norse Vikings who descended upon
the coasts of Ireland on their numerous raiding expeditions, plundering the
settlements and particularly the monasteries, which were always then first
objective. Evidence of their occupation of the coastal regions is contained
in the many place names which have a Norse derivation such as Carling rior
and Strang Fiord, or “violent inlet,” which lies further to the north, and both
these sheltered hatrb'ours were ideal headquarters for raiding expeditions. Bu
the Norsemen were traders as well as robbers and it was they who first
established town life in the coastal regions of Ireland Their ships carned
the hides and the wool of Ireland to the continent of Europe and returned
with cloth, wine and slaves.
The first Norman invasion of Ireland took place in 1177 when John de
Courcv with a band of three hundred followers established his rule from
Carlingford Lough northward and beyond the, Mourne Mountain’, which still
“sweep down to the sea” and fully justify the familiar sentiment of the
popular song.


The Red Page
AN AMERICAN CHILDHOOD
To be happy as a Sandburg is to rejoice
in the mere enumeration of American
strengths and excellences; he is the most
cataloguing poet since Whitman, but the
method works best in his prose, and is
admirably suited to his autobiography,
Always the Young Strangers (Cape), a
436-page survey of his childhood and
youth in Galesburg, Illinois, where he
was born, January 6, 1878.
Sandburg is the son of a railroad black-
smith who migrated from Sweden, Like
any other young Galesburg “snorky,”
young Carl went to school with the
■‘micks,” “niggers” or “smokes,”
“dagoes,” “sheenies” and “skinflints” —
the “skinflints” were Yankees —and all
the boys accepted their national titles
unless spoken with a sneer or a curse;
“goddam nigger,” for instance. Carl grew
up delivering papers and milk, was an
ofiice-boy, barbers’ assistant, tinner’s
(roofing) assistant, ball-pounder to a pot-
tery-turner, boatshed-hand, ice-floater,
hobo and soldier. He went to war in 1898
when President McKinley declared war
pn Spain, and served with an expedition
to Porto Rico ; and the book leaves him
at his home-coming from this expedition.
But nothing that happened to Sand-
burg is of as much interest as his detailed
account of small-town life in America in
the twenty years before the turn of the
century ; the grey life of a small commun-
ity, children’s games and sayings, people
seen for a few moments or a few years,
going and coming according to no plot,
the occasional scandal in the long grass,
all undistorted by the falsities of fiction.
For instance, there Marshal Hin-
man, a short man with a black moustache,
a blue suit of clothes and a star on his
coat; he crouched over the muddy shoe-
tracks left by the alleged thief and cut
cardboard shapes of the alleged thief’s
boot-soles. Then he went into the robbed
store and looked at the open back win-
dow;— 1
We saw the Marshal leave after saying,
“We haven’t got much to work on but
we’ll do the best we can.”
Not only a smart man, the marshal,
but a modest man; and obviously the
thief is going to be caught by a piece of
that simple but unsung middle-American
shrewdness with which all readers of
American fiction and reminiscences are
familiar. So we read on:
Then time went by and the years passed
and the case was never solved and no one
knows to this day whose feet were in those
right and left shoes that made their tracks
in the mud.
But Sandburg’s cataloguing preserves a
great deal of more positive detail that
will be news to many foreigners, and even
to many Americans. A little while ago
when a song called “Abbadabba Honey-
moon” made the home of Australian
parents with radios hideous, no one here
suspected that “Abbadabba” was any-
thing more than a Tin Pan Alley non-
sense-word. But, says Sandburg,
We knew it was Friday night and the
knights of Abbadabba were to meet when
we saw him [Professor Grubb] walking west
in his regalia. A long-tailed blue coat with
brass buttons and streaks of color he wore
and on his head a long hat flying a plume,
a shining white ostrich feather....”
He throws a vivid light over a political
torchlight and flambeau rally: flambeau
was not just another word for torch; —•
o rhc ™ n striding in line two by two were
Republicans. Each man had a pole over his
r 4 er * At the end of the pole swung a
lighted torch.... I saw hundreds of torches
, str aight line in the middle of Seminary-
street. Over his shoulders each man had a
red-wmte-and-blue oilskin cape. Drippings
nn°?u the , kerosene-lamp of the torch fell
on the oilskin.
walked north and came to the men
,^ ln 8 flambeaus. When the order was
S-f n the y Put their lips to a pipe that ran
®y er their heads. When twenty of
htew into their pipes it sent up into
e air A> orn those pipe-ends twenty tongues
~r , e e or four feet high, spreading and
‘ mg like twenty big flowers of fire.
He remembers a campaigning story
a tout Grover Cleveland asking a man
law-—. WaS d ° ing ° n the White House
the man said, “I’m hungry and
e ? t grass >” Cleveland told him',
v,, i dont you SO around to the back-
>‘iiu where the grass is longer?”
,‘^ s a . n * ce- fl°ater,” Sandburg was given
tast look at a vanishing industry:
Q’«ircA weeks of ice-harvesting on Lake
pan rge l ; arne °ne January The night
ihr mo° rked frora seven at night till sixain
Tbf. ™ ornin ß with an hour off at midnight.
v y a l twelve to eighteen inches thick.
n „iT- „ • over it with horse teams
inh i* g Ice -cutters. In the first week on the
fiftpin “floater.” Rafts of ice about
cm * eet ~, ng and tcn f eet w ide had been
Dmbb? 86 ' fl° ater stood on a raft and,
pusmng a pronged pole, propelled the raft
and himself to the chutes of the big ice-
house. There the ice was broken into blocks
or cakes and a belt carried them up where
they were stood in rows with sawdust
sprinkled between to hold them cold till
summer and warm weather....
He remembers the “cigarette-bio-
graphies” most of us have never heard of,
little books two-and-three-quarter inches
long and one-and-a-half inches wide en-
closed with every ten-cent packet of
Duke’s cigarettes and containing, besides
a glossy cover, thirteen pages of small
print, each book devoted to one of fifty
Civil War generals, or to such celebrities
as Cornelius Vanderbilt, Sarah Bernhardt,
Robert Ingersoll, Alger, Wanamaker and
that scarifying preacher, T. de Witt Tal-
mage, who thundered his sermons against
drink and vice in a church seating 6000,
received 12,000 dollars annual salary,
twice that for lectures, 5000 dollars a
year for his printed sermons and 5000
dollars a year as editor of a monthly
magazine.
Talmage, of course, graced a much
greater American city than Galesburg.
Pastor Carl A. Nyblad was much more
characteristic of the small town—there
must be few small towns that are not
visited at some time in their lives by a
clergyman or other public dignitary of
modernity and charm, who gains a fol-
lowing from forward-lookers or advanced
thinkers. Then rumors trickle in from
where he was before —in this case it was
of a girl seduced and abandoned. There
is the indignant denial by “all who really
know him” ; the reference to his “spiritual
look” ; the prospering of the visitor, the
losing in well-fed curves of much of the
“spiritual look” ; and then a negro maid-
servant brings a case for maintenance of
her child ; the pastor is acquitted, but
shortly afterwards departs for fresh fields
in Chicago, leaving debts and angry
tradesmen.
About the only world-famous person
to be actually present in these memoirs is
Julia Carney, who lived in “the house
next east to ours straight across the
street” ; the authoress of the poem “Little
Things”;
Little drops of water,
Little grains of sand,
Make the mighty ocean
And the pleasant land....
Her son Fletcher was several times
Mayor of Galesburg:
There she sat in the quiet of her backward-
gazing thoughts, sometimes gently rocking,
while we hooted and yelled over hits, runs,
put-outs. There she sat, an image of
silence and rest, while the air rang with
boy screams, “Hit it bang on the nose
now!” “Aw, he couldn’t hit a balloon!”
“Down went McGinty to the bottom of the
sea!” Rarely she turned her head to see
what we were doing....To us at that time
she was just one more nice old woman who
wouldn’t bother boys at play. We didn’t
know that her writings were in books and
newspaper reprints that reached millions of
readers. The Carneys were good neighbors
and she was one of them —that was all we
knew.
She certainly didn’t imbue young Sand-
burg with her poetic method.
Sandburg’s hard-working father —one
of his earliest memories is of his father,
coming home from work, trying to get the
grime out of his cracked hands —saved
enough to put a deposit on the ten-
roomed house on Berrien-street, part of
which he remodelled and decorated and
let out for rent; and then he ran into a
law-suit over a “sleeping mortgage” on
another bit of land he had bought, which
cost him almost a thousand dollars and a
great deal of his faith in life. The story
is beautifully handled, and helps to fill
out the small-town picture, as does the
women’s comment when it got around
that young Carl was still delivering milk
although his brothers Emil and Freddie
were down with diphtheria:
And the women had worried faces and
said, “It doesn’t look right.”
Maybe it wasn’t. Emil and Freddie
both died;
There were two days I didn’t report to
George Burton [the milkman] for work in
that diphtheria and burial week....
There is also an account of the barber’s
shop next to which was an eight-tub bath-
room—2s cents a bath. Part of Sand-
burg’s barber-shop duties was to scrub the
backs of the regulars:
We had trouble with the tubs. They began
looking dirty with a dirt you couldn’t scrub
away. We tried muriatic acid on them and
they still looked dirty. So I would explain
to each customer that what looked like dirt
was the iron where the muriatic acid had
eaten off the porcelain coat.
Then there was the sad affair of the
gentleman who had to have a shave, hair-
cut and shampoo:
He looked good for a dime tip, at least
a nickel. I gave him a shoe-shine. I swung
my whisk broom over his Prinz Albert coat
and his pants down to his shoes. Then I
took his silk hat off the hatrack. I began
swinging my whisk broom up, down, and
around his silk hat, the first of the kind I
had ever handled.... He let out a howl and
rushed over yelling, “You can’t do that!”
The book is full of thumbnail sketches
w
A Hunter of Sharks
ẁ
Recent Penguins
ẅ
This Jack, joke, poor potsherd, patch,
matchwood, immortal diamond,
Is immortal diamond.
Milton writes:
1 fled, and cried out Death.
Hell trembled at the hideous name, and
sigh’d
From all her caves, and back resounded
Death.
The form is different but the intensity
of feeling is common to both poets;
so that it would be wrong to admire
Hopkins, as so many people do, merely
for the difference of his forms.
It is certainly intensity and not
any change of form that makes
the difference between the tragedies of
Shakspeare and the Penguin Four English
Tragedies of Marlowe, Hey wood, Web-
ster and Dryden. Marlowe was born in
the same year as Shakspeare, inherited
the same tradition and wrote in the same
form ; but, magnificent as “Edward the
Second” is, it cannot be compared with
“Richard the Third,” any more than
Heywood’s “A Woman Killed with
Kindness” can be compared with
“Othello,” remarkable for its time as it
is. There is the same theme, a husband’s
trust in his wife and its betrayal, in this
case not fanciful, and there is the same
dramatic inevitability about the conclu-
sion, but there is none of Shakspeare’s
richness of understanding,
Dryden’s “All for Love” is the same
story Shakspeare followed in “Antony
and Cleopatra,” and it is dramatically as
busy and exciting in action, but it lacks
that inner thing which Shakspeare’s mind
gave to everything it dealt with.
Circumstances combined to make
Edmund Campion, by Evelyn Waugh,
another Penguin, an outstanding contri-
bution to modern biography. Waugh,
with his considerable narrative gifts, was
a recent convert himself to Roman
Catholicism, and he brought all the ardor
of the convert to acclaim this Roman
Catholic hero and martyr. Campion’s
unique combination of scholarship,
leadership, passion and piety needed a
sympathetic and passionate biographer,
and he got him in Waugh. No reader,
whatever his political or religious con-
victions, can fail to be moved by this
tragedy in the grand manner moving to
its inevitable end of Tyburn, its single-
minded central figure advancing joyously
through suffering and betrayal to endure
all for that which he implicitly believed.
Reviewed Briefly
ŵ


*
Senior Store News
iipiiii
weekly news of activities, values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
Specials for the man on the. land!
New shipment of Winches and Chain
a
m
3
X
“Dawn” all steel hand winches con-
structed throughout of high grade cast
steel and designed without keys and set
screws to shear or strip. Winches are„
fitted with fabric lined brake, safety
panel and adjustable handle. For general
utility in lifting and shifting these
winches are particularly suitable-because
of their lightness and compactness
combined with strength.
Approx. High Low
dimensions Steel wire gear gear
excluding handle capacity ratio ratio Weight
£ ton 12"x9"x9" 80'-J" circ. direct 4.2 to I 40 lbs.
2 ton Is"xl3"xH" 120'-I" circ. 4to I 22 to I 78 lbs.
5 ton 20"xl7"xl5" 250'-l±" circ. 4.3 to I 24 to I 140 lbs.
i ton £2O/8/-, 2 ton £26/17/-, 5 ton £37/1/1.
Coil chain
“Ideal” wall winch. Winch worm
geared producing a 10 to 1 ratio. For
quick hawling the handle, which is
adjustable, may be shifted to direct drum
drive. Overall measurements are
I7in. x 16in. x 9in. and weight 75 lbs.
Winch is capable of handling loads up
to 7 cwts. £l3/17/6.
Galvanised forged shackles
•gin. i%in. fin. fin. fin. lin.
Pounds
Price. per foot.
Breaking strain.
5 ton 6 cwt.
14 ton 1 cwt.
|4n. 1/9 lb. 2% lbs.
|in. 2/8 lb. 4| lbs.
Extra special offers
From our agricultural dept.
Special offers that will help to make the man on the lands
lot a happier one. These implements are a must for every farmer.
w
Earth scoops. All steel with wooden
handles, very strongly constructed
3 C.F. capacity £l5/'/', 5 C.F. capacity
£l6/5/-.
Diamond harrows. 20 teeth diamond
harrow, strongly built, replaceable tynes.
£5/17/' a section.
Hand trucks fitted with best iron
wheels.
No.
1
2
3
4
5
Handle.
42in.
45in.
48in.
51 in.
54in.
Wheels.
6iin. x
6iin. x Hin,
7in x 2in.
7iin. x 2in.
7-|in. x 2in.
Price.
£5/6/'
£7/0/9
£7/13/9
£B/6/9
£B/17/3
Available with rubber tyres if required.
Platform trucks. 60in. x 30in. double
railTtwo fixed two*swivel cast
priced £l7/1/6. Rubber tyres £22/3/3.
Ross cub air compressor. Easily
adapted for”high" or work
spray painting or tyre inflation.
Patented, new designed, KBOO valves. Pis'
ton displacement, 2.3c.f.m. patented auto-
matic “Easi'start” protection for full joad
starting, air filter and after cooler £4B/ 10/*
Plux Tax if applicable.
ŵ
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
IS**
Horderns!
itnon;
wnjjriwv
Anthony Horderns.’ Box 3712, G.P.0., Sydney. Telephone; M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 31, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3868
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEADOFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne. ■
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.). Wellington.
SPEAK UP, DR. EVATT!
Australian electors are having a fine exhibition of the
sort of choice they will make if they decide to oust the
Menzies Government from office on‘ May 29.
The spectacle presented by the N. S. Wales Legis-
lative Assembly last week was one to shame any com-
munity that of an Attorney-General like a coursed
hare, making light of admissions of bribery by an
employee of an illegal two-up school who, according to
the Attorney-General himself, had declared in a state-
ment to the police:
I have on several occasions given money to the
police who have pulled up near the [Thomas’s
two-up J school. It is a recognised thing that when
police cars come to the school we often give the police
a couple of pounds to have a drink.., .This money is
not given as a bribe, but only for the men to have a
drink with.
The evidence in general terms was supported by an
ex-constable, Muir, who, as reported by the “Sun-
Herald” (17/1/’54), allegedly stated that over a period
of three years he and other members of the police force
had accepted bribes from Thomas’s school, and that
during four months senior police-officers had urged
him to resign to prevent relevant facts becoming known
to the public; also, that two charges against him
under police regulations were not proceeded with and
that he was, in fact, allowed to resign in order to prevent
any relevant facts becoming known to the public.
This engenders in Mr. Sheahan’s mind —or what
passes for a mind —no emotion save a violent indig-
nation against the Press which dares to make the
allegations public and to demand inquiry. He is full
of jeers at the Opposition which wants a royal com-
mission on such trifling matters, a measure which he
scorns because “royal commissions never result in the
infliction of punishments which deter wrongdoers,”
The .fact that his Government has appointed at
least three other royal commissions when it suited it,
or when public opinion forced the issue, does not seem
to have any effect on Mr. Sheahan, and his view appears
to be that the really wicked men involved in the trans-
action about which he and his leader are avoiding
inquiry are those who desire to let a little daylight
into the subject and provide an explanation of why a
notorious two-up school has been able to operate in
Sydney for donkey’s years without serious molestation
by the authorities.
The Press which desires inquiry is (according to
Mr. Sheahan) engaged in “one of the worst types of
Press propaganda campaign in the history of the
State.” Mr. Treattj the Leader of the Opposition, in
moving for a royal commission, is merely helping his
friends the magnates to “provide the newspapers with
easy news.” And the admissions of two people
allegedly involved in the bribery itself is, to Mr.
Sheahan’s legal mind, “evidence you would not hang
a dog on,” though he admits that he has not even read
the statement of the constable who was reported in
Parliament to have admitted taking bribes in conjunc-
tion with other members of the force. Mr, Sheahan says
that the papers have been sent to the Grown Law
Office to see if they warrant a prosecution, but does
not explain why it is only now that this action has
been taken —the matter has been before the Police
Department for months.
With the revelatiqps of the Liquor Inquiry and
its miserable and ineffective denouement; with the
outcome of the Doyle-Arthur Inquiry (a case in which
Messrs. Cahill and Sheahan were convinced that the
Minister was the innocent victim of a Press and political
smear until the facts came out and Mr. Doyle was
safely in jail); with the various other charges about
the City Council and barrowmen uninvestigated ; with
the Vitnell scandalwith the smell of bankruptcy,
impropriety and general suspicion of incapacity and
shabby petty corruption hanging round almost every-
thing “Labor” does in New South Wales, Dr. Evatt
and his followers will go to the polls in May with a
heavy load to carry unless they can divest themselves
of it.
They, of course, cannot be accused of respon-
sibility for anything which comes withih the Cahill
Government’s administrative ambit. But they receive
their authorisations as members of the “Labor’ 4 party,
as candidates for the Federal election, from the same
A.L.P. Executive which seems to be backing Messrs.
Cahill and Sheahan to the hilt; from the same body
which has put itself behind compulsory unionism and
the Press Gag Bill; which allowed Mr. Arthur to
escape without censure from Parliament. It is the
l hat se ® l ' ,s J unperturbed at the Ministerial
gC j,' 1,01 permitted the Vitnell scandal to happen,
1 evinces no desire to reform the liquor laws, and
which generally seems satisfied with Mr. Cahill and
wtui' Wh ° “ *5?, We S kend
criticising Australia s huge expenditure on
tt7l. , t n t”
Messre Say - t 0 aU th ?- 7 Isbe with
u d Sheahan m everything they are
doin b B n „ 3 s . h ® see no nigger in the woodpile of
. St*! rU e m J^ le ‘ h l m . ess
witn ms State confreres of New South Wales during
Sdge se°"no a “rS ? fn?? eS %****' iBh Court
Dr Evatt is the FwiprafiJS- movement of which
to fOT
y g 1 s not hls business.
mere are not two N. S. Wales A.L.P, branches—
only one, which controls the policies and election-
F ” deral PartieS - A !? d / n
v w ,°: “J® nature °f Labor organisation and the
j°™P le , te exTcSe A LP ' exe, ; ut ! ve P r °-
SffJ ton, oftherlhill ch b u r C ' overnmenls m offlce
mSch of^' 1 '^ ea han Government are very
Tt , , edera Labor.
, At must be made to speak up on the subject through
its leader. Everything that the N. S. Wales “Labor”
government does is an issue in Federal politics.
Wooing the Skilled Worker
After plugging for two years the twin themes of
unemployment and rising costs, Dr. Evatt found
himself as 1953 drew to a close with the first almost
at vanishing-point and the second so much under
control jhat even the biggest optimist in the ranks of
Labor” could no longer look on it as an election-
winner. And this had been achieved by a Government
which had refused to be panicked by the calamity-
crying of Evatt and his colleagues, and which was not
afraid to adopt unpopular measures when it believed
them to be in the national interest.
After flailing around for a month or so looking
for an alternative programme the Doc. apparently
decided that a complete change of front was necessary,
even if it meant antagonising some of those to whose
whims he had been pandering ever since he assumed
the leadership of Federal “Labor.” The result is a
bid for the votes of the highly-skilled, the well-
qualified, the semi-professional workers who might be
feeling browned-off towards “Labor” and must
therefore be persuaded back to the camp, or who have
never voted Labor” but might be inveigled into so
doing if they could be convinced that the party was
at last showing a genuine concern for their interests,
instead of concentrating on the unskilled.
When Evatt says, as he did in a recent broadcast,
that
the freezing of margins for skill has meant that the
real value of the payment for special skills has gone
down, “
and that
the lowering of standards injures our whole appren-
ticeship and professional training systems,
ho is quite right. He is, in fact, repeating back what
thinking people have been telling him for the last three
years, but which he and his party have found it
convenient to ignore.
But in trying to lay the blame on to the Arbitra-
tion Court for “freezing”, margins and on the Federal
Government for not intervening in the court pro-
ceedings, he is wildly and irresponsibly wrong.
In the first place, the metal-trades margins, which
have become a kind of barometer for the whole of
secondary industry, were “frozen” by conciliation-
commissioner Galvin on the grounds that increases
would serve to inflate living-costs and feed inflation.
In accordance with Evatt’s own “streamlined” arbitra-
tion system, no appeal against the decision was per-
mitted. When, a short time later, another commissioner
gave a decision that was contrary to Mr. Galvin’s, but,
like his, was inviolate against appeals, an impossible
situation arose which showed how unworkable the
no-appeals system was in practice.
To find a way out of the impasse the Menzies
Government amended the Arbitration Act to grant a
right of appeal against the decisions of conciliation
commissioners in certain cases. Out of this came the
unions’ appeal to the court last year, resulting in the
upholding of the Galvin viewpoint that the economy
could not yet afford increased margins and a post-
ponement of a final decision until later this year.
For election purposes Evatt’s tactics are sound.
He knows that the rank-and-file of “Labor” will vote
for his party no matter what it does or leaves undone ;
no matter what it promises or does not promise. They
will vote for it merely because it is called “Labor.”
Evatt is after the swinging vote—and with that theme-
song he could quite easily get it. But if the people at
whom he is aiming fall for the alluring tune of the
new Pied Piper disillusionment will not be long in
coming.
Contrary to the belief apparently held by “Labor’s”
tub-thumpers, there is no golden chest out of which
wage-increases can be paid indefinitely, and the stage
has been reached in Australia where increases granted
to one section can only be at the expense of others.
If Evatt considers that general wages have gone high
enough but that skilled men should get more he .should
say so. But he doesn’t mean that. He speaks of the
injury to “highly-qualified aeroplane-pilots, the public
servants, banking and insurance officers, teachers and
journalists,” but he adds “indeed, almost all of those
on salaries or wages under awards.”
In other words, what the Federal “Labor” leader
is advocating is merely an all-rouhd increase in wages
—the same shortsighted policy the industrial wine of
“Labor” has purshed all along to the Simenf of
the economy of the country The apparent Concern
for the highly-qualified is so much eyelash. Even if it
were not-even if Evatt really imagined he could lay
down party policy in the matter—no one with anv
knowledge the past history of “Labor” would credit
him with the ability to do so. Federal “Labor” policy
is determined by the unions, and when it comes to a
counting of heads the unskilled and the less-skilled
far outnumber the skilled
, •“ New Zealand this same undeniable fact has
trade-unions, whose members are mainly unskilled, and
,hat conditions of union organisation and
collective bargaining influence this trend.” The result
is a tendency throughout New Zealand towards an
almost uniform rate of pay.
, rt takes no imagination to realise the ultimate
result of all this. Judge Tyndall seems to accent it as
inevitable in New Zealand. y It must not be acceded as
inevitable here. But it will be inevitable if the highly-
skilled, the highly-trained and semi-professional
workers accept “Labor’s” assurance that it will look
after their interests as well as those of the unskilled—
or if they accept Dr. Evatt’s assurance that he will
guarantee them a better standard of living.
Whither and Why the I.L.O.?
CM.”: Several international corns of long standing
must have twitched when the International Labor
Organisation conference in Geneva last June began
discussing the prices of export primary products. The
prices discussion deserves some publicity, if only as an
awful example of the visions of unlimited scope which
some countries hold for the 1.L.0. itself.
The three Australian groups—Government,
employers’ and employees’—can be exempted in this
case. Two of them saw the danger, and the third was
out of his depth. Albert Monk, the “workers’ delegate,”
in fact, was more alarmed than the others. With a
curious f choice of adjectives he says (according to
the report tabled in the Reps.) that the discussion
“led to rather fulsome and acrimonious debate because
of the varying viewpoints and the different economic
interests that were involved.”
The employers (B. R. Orr, advised by E. T. A.
Dixon and H. D. Winterbottom) say that the resolution
eventually adopted “contains interesting and important
variations from the original, particularly as regards
the elimination of the reference to certain matters
involving the further projection of 1.L.0. into other
spheres of activity which could not possibly be
acceptable to Australia.”
That mouthful of a sentence said a mouthful. The
original motion, moved by the Government represen-
tative of Ceylon, declared that the economies of most
underdeveloped countries were conditioned by the
prices their primary products fetched overseas, and
therefore urged the consuming nations to remove
restrictions on import or consumption; to avoid sub-
sidies on competing products; and “to encourage and
support international commodity-agreements for stabi-
lisation of prices.”
The final, amended resolution talked vaguely of
the need for rising living-standards, of the serious
effects of fluctuating prices, and expressed the hope
that, as these problems had to be solved if the aims
of 1.L.0. were to be achieved,” the “appropriate organs
of the United Nations will actively pursue their efforts
to promote a solution of these problems.”
The longest comment on this discussion was made
by the Australian Government representatives, H. A.
Bland (secretary of the Labor and National Service
Department) and P, Shaw, delegate to the European
office of U.N. They pointed out to the gathering that
the matter could be dealt with more effectively at
G.A.T.T. or E.5.0.5.0.C. This should have been
enough, it would be thought; but there was a great
deal more.
A reference to a U.N. resolution concerning
economic development of underdeveloped countries
was deleted by a combination of the employers and a
number of Governments, including Australia and the
U.S. The employers’ group argued that the problems
of marketing primary commodities affected the
economies of all countries, but their proposal to re-
word the resolution accordingly on more general terms
was defeated, with Australia and the U.S. abstaining.
This is followed by a statement obviously designed
to be tactful, where it would seem that some plain,
blunt speaking would have been more in order. “The
Australian Government delegate made a statement
expressing sympathy with the idea behind the action
of the Ceylon Government delegate in bringing forward
his draft resolution.
“However, the link between social progress, which
was the concern of the 1.L.0., and the marketing of
primary commodities, although direct, was rather
tenuous. If the conference were to talk of the prices
of primary commodities the qualifying word ‘certain’
should be introduced, because international discussions
showed that certain commodities were fit subjects for
commodity-agreements and certain other primary-
commodities of equal importance were held to be not
fit subjects for agreements. To say that price-stability
was essential to economic development ignored other
factors, such as quantities.”
It seems that if the 1.L.0. is to continue at all it
should confine its attention to National Labor Depart-
ments (on which Bland and Shaw talk at even greater
length) and the desirability of paid holidays. If it
meddles elsewhere it may be liquidated.


:sl®.Qt\T/C^-:^:i
%3 . jg||& >.- >' !#>' #ys
p, ■ '3-
lr ■s,*&
-!*■ •?*•,• ~ ■ v -.'V v » , «..-*Va „-'<--. 1
jn>" * «•" . ...
*' ;*■'• ./. **:* -.. ?• ««• ; s £ -. ■ •• . «• V, *.%/,..';•*• »«>,.* t •-***.• •* - , ✓>. ' ->=?i - ✓ :
*r* .• > ? .*CxAT’ : Y : ' k • v * V*. •* ; A : - % ’KVv ,v ** ,; 'j,V-' r .
" x - '" "' , ’-' .»•* <v. VV# V‘-i v>-f' # ' **■&&£. .-•■■-•
■■■x . .s/'* ~VV '•'•■'«•..:*»\'-» •«*. • ■ > • %•«'•<.••.•s.«, . :-i • - --’ ipy; W&feOiW- - • .-*
THE MURKMASTERS


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Kremlin's Main Hope
Discussiqn of the effects of the hydro-
gen-bomb-—of which so far little authen-
tic is known—has in some Press and poli-
tical comment created near-panic. If the
bomb has anything like the power and
effect described, it is something which may
well alarm the world. Defence against it
does not lie in Mr. Clive Evatt’s plan
for creating “bulwarks” through the
extension of his housing schemes; nqr
do the facts of the case support his belief,
expressed in the same speech at the week-
end, that the money used for Australian
defence in the past few years has been
“squandered.”
The facts as they are known to Govern-
ments, though not to the public, are
startling enough. And though the sea
and atmosphere may not catch fire
through atomic explosion, or the world
crumple up, it is obvious that any great
nation against which surprise strikes are
made must stagger under the blows, even
if it is prepared to some extent.
There is talk of three-Power confer-
ences between the United States, the
U.S.S.R. and Great Britain to end the
atomic menace, and whether this can be
done will depend largely on what Russia’s
atomic equipment is, or the Kremlin
thinks it is, by comparison with that
of the Western nations. In other forms
of modern warfare depending on high
mobility, great firepower and rapidity of
action the Red Army is at a disadvantage.
Despite all loose talk to the contrary,
the result of a - war in which there are
no atom-bombs would depend largely not
on what each side has at the beginning of
the war but on what it could produce
within three years. And though great
manpower is a vital essential, and the
Russians, with their ruthless and con-
tinuous conscription, can produce an
army probably equal to the rest of the
armies of the world in point of numbers,
sheer numbers add increasingly to the
problems of supply, especially when
operations are directed against an adver-
sary able to turn out arms without limit.
In everything connected with the en-
gineering and mobility which are the
heart of a modern war which one side
chooses to fight as a war of movement,
the Western Allies seem to have unques-
tionable superiority, together with
superiority in factories, capacity for
tooling-up and skilled technicians and
training facilities.
The job can be measured largely in
terms of essential material. Russia and
its European satellites produce under 50
million tons of steel on their own figures,
against about the same amount produced
by the rest of Western Europe, plus 103
million tons produced by the United
States. And to produce more steel re-
quires more steel —an eating into existing
stocks.
In oil Russia is vastly inferior, even
ignoring the better Western techniques
in producing and using it. And the news-
papers which point out breathlessly that
the Russians have 20,000 aircraft forget
that these, if they -flew over a year an
average of two minutes per day per
aircraft, would consume the whole-of the
Soviet Union’s oil-supply, crude and
otherwise.
It isn’t anything to be taken for granted,
but these are the apparent facts based
on Russia’s own figures, checked as
nearly as possible by Western Intelli-
gence services. And in the face of them
atomic power is very much more import-
ant to Russia than it is to the Western
Allies. The Russian reactions on the
hydrogen-bomb question, therefore,
may be of major concern as an indi-
cator of the Kremlin’s intentions.
i
Measuring Living-costs
A year or so ago, when the basic wage
was bounding along in three-monthly
giant strides as a result of rising costs-of-
living as reflected by the Commonwealth
Statistician’s “C”-series index-numbers,
there was much criticism of the index,
mostly due to a mistaken appreciation
of what it represented. An opinioq
widely held was that the regimen was
supposed to represent the weekly require-
ments of an average family, and it was
accordingly criticised because it didn’t
include enough of this or that and omitted
so-and-so altogether. This was hardly
fair, as the regimen was no more than an
honest attempt- to provide an index—a
yardstick for measuring changes. It con-
sisted of
a list of commodities and services which
commonly enter into the consumption of
the average household and in respect of
which comparative prices can be ascer-
tained with due precision from time to
time and from place to place.
Groceries, dairy-produce and meat
were included, but not fresh fish, fresh
fruit or vegetables, these items being sub-
ject to violent price-changes. Rents,
clothing and some items of “household
requirements” were allowed for, also fuel
and miscellaneous items such as union
dues, newspapers, fares and school requi-
sites. It was not claimed that the index
was a perfect reflection of price-changes,
but it was considered to be a reasonably
reliable measuring-stick.
With the slowing-down of inflation and
the freezing of the basic wage, criticism
of the index has died down a lot; in fact,
many of its former attackers have now
found great virtue in it. But a statement
issued by the Acting Commonwealth
Statistician suggests that' the index hasn’t
been far off the track after all.
For some time, it appears, the Statis-
tician’s office has also been compiling a
new index—“the interim retail-price
index” —the regimen for which is based
more upon the pattern of current con-
sumption than the old one. It includes
60 more items than the old ; it places less
emphasis on food, clothing, drapery and
rent • and it gives more weight to fuel,
light, household sundries, repairs, fares,
leCreation and so on.
Yet in comparison with the old index
it shows very little variation. On the
basis of .the average figures for 1952-3
the “C”-series index showed a rise of 2.9
per cent, by the December, 1953, quarter;
the figure for the new index was 2.2 per
cent. However, over the longer period
1950 to 1953 the two indexes varied by
only 0.1 per cent.
The Statistician intends in future to
publish both sets of figures each quarter.
It is not likely that they will put an end to
industrial arguments on the cost-of-living,
but they should at least show that criti-
cism of the regimen is of little value.
Pollard or Bran?
Among the pieces of propaganda which
are being put forward to win friends for
“Labor” at the forthcoming Federal
elections is the Pollard wheat scheme.
In brief, it is intended to operate for
10 years. For this year the home-
consumption price to the grower is to
remain at 14s. a bushel bulk, f.o.r. at
ports. For the remainder of the first
five years of the period (also the period
of the McEwen scheme) the growers
will receive 14s. a bushel minimum on
the same basis ; the price for the second
five years being the price per bushel
bulk f.o.r. ports “as determined annually
in accordance with the found cost of
production, plus a premium of Is. sd.
per bushel found by the Commonwealth
Government.”
Export wheat would be paid for
throughout the 10 years at a guaranteed
minimum export price per bushel bulk
f-O.r. ports, equal to the found cost of
production—this is to cover all export
wheat without quantitative limitation.
The Pollard plan provides for a new
stabilisation fund to which growers will
contribute whenever export price exceeds
the guaranteed cost of production ; but
the contributions “will not amount to
more than Is. 6d. per bushel,” and there
are various other provisions about these
funds and about special payments to
W.A. growers and provision for payment
of freight on wheat from the mainland
to Tasmania,
The net effect of the most important
clause seems to be that the price of
wheat to the consumer for the present
will be ostensibly 12s. 7d. a bushel for
the present season, the “Labor” Govern-
ment then taking another Is. sd. per
bushel from the consumer’s . pocket by
stealth to enable 14s. to be paid to the
producer—the price set by the Menzies
Government, which has abolished
subsidies.
This idea Dr. Evatt describes as “a
positive, constructive and valuable
attempt to solve the present wheat crisis
in accordance with the policy of Federal
Labor.”
There has been no cheering from
wheatgrowers. Mr. W. R. Scilley, presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers,
commented that there seemed to be no
word from Dr. Evatt as to whether the
growers could have any option whether
the plan would be adopted or not if
“Labor” won the elections. He pointed
out that had it not been for “Labor’s”
Mr. Cain, growers would have had the
chartce to say whether they would favor
a plan calculated to give them substan-
tially the same returns as those under
the Pollard scheme. He added:
Farmers have had enough of Pollard
wheat-stabilisation schemes. The net re-
sult of the last one, which expired last
September, was that wheatgrowers had
subsidised wheat-consumers to the extent
of £145,646,797.
This, of course, is the result which any
sane man would expect from a scheme
devised by a party whose interests lie
in the industrial suburbs of great cities.
And subsidies are, as Mr. Scilley sug-
gested, a confidence-trick —they appear
to be paid to the grower, but in effect
they invariably benefit the consumer, or
nobody at all.
Mr. McEwen declared that Mr. Cain
had done everything to frustrate an agree-
ment on any terms between the Govern-
ment and the wheatgrowers, so that Dr.
Evatt might come forward heroically
during the elections with a plan.
But in the plan he finds little heroic —
rather unlimited audacity which has led
Dr. Evatt to announce the basis of the
local selling-price for nine years to come,
“knowing quite well as a constitutional
lawyer that, this is completely outside
the authority of any Commonwealth
Government.”
Communist-style Strikes
In the past month the Sydney Commun-
ists and those who practise their methods
have been proving busily that they can
still hold up industry.
Apart from a strike at Bunnerong
powerhouse, the latest, though not new,
popular method is the regulation-strike,
a technique to which the Government ser-
MILLIONS OF
OIL SHARES—p. 74
vices lend themselves. All the strikers
need to do is to obey, or pretend to obey,
the regulations under which they work.
The postal workers body, notoriously
Leftist for years, has a fine field for its
effort, and has been making the most of
it in Sydney. The machinery available is
the departmental instructions —96 for
van-drivers, 273 for postmen, 110 for
mail-sorters and 3345 for postmasters (the
last printed in a book quarto-size and
Hin. thick).
The pretext of the postal-van drivers’
regulation-strike is that one of their num-
ber has been prosecuted for double-park-
ing and parking within 20ft. of a building-
alignment while clearing a pillar-box. So
no van-driver will clear a box which is
nearer than 20ft. to a building and will
not “double-park.” They make trip after
trip to the box if necessary, till they find
a clear space beside it.
The whole situation is a ridiculous
example of bureaucratic stupidity. The
State operates the parking regulations.
The Commonwealth operates the postal-
van regulations. And the Leftist-run
bureaucracy of the Postal Union in-
terprets both to suit its own purposes,
with the result that about 500,000 letters
a day were being left behind at boxes last
week, mails were delayed, and there was
general confusion in business and extra
expense, direct and indirect, for the tax-
payer.
The bus-drivers who run the routes
across the Harbor from Sydney have an
equally fruitful field to play in, to the
confusion of their almost-bankrupt depart-
ment and the upsetting of business and
the daily lives of thousands of wage-
earners. They work under 244 instruc-
tions, few of which are normally observed
.unless it happens to suit the bus-driver
or conductor.
The regulations which they have most
used during the recent regulation-strike
have been one which allegedly limits bus-
speeds to 20 miles an hour—the actual
limit is 30 m.p.h.—and those which enjoin
the conductor to have the bus stopped or
reduced in speed at the end of a section
while he collects uncollected fares, though
only as a last resource; also —used to
great effect during the Christmas season
—the one which prohibits standing on
the platforms.
The Leftist organisers of disruption
must include regulation-minded official-
dom in their prayers every night.
Petrol-trading Hours
While Sydney suburban garage-pro-
prietors were being prosecuted and fined
a few weeks ago the Full Bench of the
N.S. Wales Industrial Commission was
putting the finishing touches to its report
on selling-hours for petrol, a subject it
had been investigating for just over twelve
months. The report was published last
Week. All three judges favored an exten-
sioil of hours, Richards, 1., recommended
4.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m., all days of the
week including Sundays and holidays.
The other two judges, Webb and De Baun,
who submitted the majority report, fav-
ored the removal of all restrictions on
the selling-hours of petrol, oil and motor
accessories—in other words, a 24-hour
service.
In their report the judges said the
present hours were totally inadequate.
They pointed out that in Britain, America
and Europe there were no limitations on
petrol-selling hours, and that Victoria
alone of the Australian States enforced
hours similar to those in N. S. Wales.
They emphasised that a change to round-
the-clock trading need not impose any
obligation on anyone to keep open “dur-
ing the whole, or any part of, the per-
mitted" trading hours.” The decision
would be left to individual traders.
The recommendation is a wise one. It
has already brought protests from motor-
traders who don’t want to stay open them-
selves and who want to prevent every-
one else from doing so. There are pro-
tests also from interested unions which
profess to see in the recommendation a
return to “the sweated conditions when
delivery-wagons had to work all night”;
but there does not seem to be any reason
why those fears should be realised. If
the oil companies can manage their distri-
bution in the daytime under present con-
ditions they should still be able to do so,
whatever the retail selling-hours may be.
The report strikes a blow at the dog-
in-the-manger attitude so common to-day,
and it recognises that the function of
service-stations—as of all retail trade —is
to serve the community. The Cahill Gov-
ernment asked the Industrial Commission
to make this investigation. Now that it
has received the report it is to be hoped
it will have the courage to act upon it —
soon.
What of the Middle Sea?
“In the ACT” : Not many Australians
today recollect the amused astonishment
which greeted the then Prime Minister,
J. A. Lyons, in the disturbed days before
the last war, when he described the Medi-
terranean as “an Australian sea.” It was,
of course, an exaggeration, but .one de-
signed to focus some attention in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere upon our consider-
able stake in keeping that sea open and
peaceful. In a few weeks’ time the Queen
will sail upon it, emphasising again that
it is one of our vital highways and per-
haps tacitly drawing attention to the sug-
gestion in the U.K. that there should be
an Empire Navy for the Middle East,
Noisy blusterings in Spain about Gibral-
tar at one end of the Mediterranean and
the continued defiance by Egypt at the
other of the Security Council’s direction
that restrictions on international ship-
ping and goods through Suez should cease
suggest the need for firm and united
action.
A display of force is perhaps the only
thing that bullies understand, and Egypt
at least has traded too long on its know-
ledge that no one today wants to act or
demonstrate in a manner which could
provoke international conflict of unpre-
dictable dimensions. It has made what
use it could of its Moslem associations
as a threat, and it has vented its spleen
against Israel by an extension of the
Suez blockade to include shipping passing
to and from the Israeli port of Elath on,
the Gulf of Aqaba, The blockade of the
canal has been a major violation extend-
ing over several years of the general
armistice agreement, even after final
adjudication by the Security Council.
For the present it is a blockade against
one nation only, but the dispute with
Britain over the Canal Zone suggests
that an extension of these tactics could
come at any time if some extremist clique
seized power in Cairo. Such a sealing-off
of one end of the Mediterranean would
have much the same effect on Egypt as
the Persian eviction of the British from
Abadan, but it would be better if the
sealing is never allowed to occur. The
United Nations has failed to take decisive
action on a dispute which is very much
its concern, and an Empire naval force
may be the only effective alternative. If
so, then Australia should have a share
in it. Our men have fought and died on
and over the Mediterranean, and today
ships and cargoes to and from Australia
are a large proportion of its traffic. We
should make it plain that blockage or
bluster will not be tolerated in future.
Fear Amidst Prosperity
One of the paradoxes in N.Z. industry
today is fear in the midst of prosperity.
Manufacturers are afraid they may lose
their hold on the domestic market,
although retailers are so undersupplied
with most lines of goods that orders are
banking up for months ahead. Manage-
ments are looking for staff; in some cases
they’re crying out for workers as loudly
as in the early post-war years, and as
there are no unemployed in N.Z, there s
(Continued on next page )


a poor chance of getting them. “Over-
full” employment is still somewhere
around 105 p.c., which means that com-
petition for staff is still pushing up costs
and holding down turnover.
Most cos. could sell 25 p.c. more stuff
if they could produce it, and there’s no
chance of taking a rise out of the high
cost-of-living while things are like this.
Since the year opened, factories have had
full order-books, and many have been
working overtime during the summer
when they should have been on ordinary
hours. By using up a good part
annual overtime quota so early they’re
laying up trouble for themselves in the
spring, when industry is normally most
on its toes.
If industry can’t keep pace with
demand how, the outlook isn’t bright for
the second half of the year. Manufac-
turers know this, but say there’s nothing
they can do about it, seeing extra staff
just can’t be found. Some of the* more
farsighted of Maorilanders expected
something of the kind under the combined
influence of import-and-exchange control,
and increased spending-power from the
addition of more than half-a-million
pounds a week to wages since the Arbi-
tration Court’s order for a 10 p.c. general
rise.
Inflation is still flowing freely in N.Z.’s
fairly tightly-controlled economy, with
consequences which shouldn’t have sur-
prised anyone. For the moment, industry
is doing well. Prosperity is high, artificial
though much of it is, and for the politic-
ally-minded the position is promising for
general-election year. If Maorilanders
can’t get enough of the things they want,
they’ll probably have enough for health
and comfort, without real hardship any-
where. The day of reckoning for whip-
ping-up demand beyond the point where
it can be met hasn’t arrived yet. Partly
it’s a matter of monetary policy, which is
an old complaint in N.Z., and partly of
decontrol of prices, wages, employment,
imports, exchange, capital for investment,
and whatnot.
Manufacturers know in their hearts
that the situation isn’t healthy, and live in
dread of competition more menacing than
when the market was flooded with
overseas goods not long ago. The
world trend Is away from controls,
and open markets are returning for
N.Z.’s staple exports. Lately goods
from the Orient, chiefly Hong Kong,
have been landed in N.Z. at prices thai
have given local manufacturers a fright
but at this stage trade from that quarter
is only a trickle.
How long can N.Z.’s defences hole
against the pressure from outside? This
is a question that has baffled everyone
and the Board of Trade hasn’t a clue
yet, although it has been delving intc
trade and tariffs for three years. The onb
defence in the long run is to deflate costs
difficult as this might be for well-sheltere<
Maorilanders in their Welfare State.
POLITICAL POINTS
With the Royal visit almost over the
talking-shops are preparing for business
again. The N. S. Wales Parliament re-
opened last week in very much the same
atmosphere of bad-fellowship that hung
over the House last December. An Oppo-
sition move for a royal commission on
allegations of police bribery was gagged
in the 1953 style, and Cahill and a sizeable
team of yes-men walked out of the
Chamber while Opposition-leader Treatt
was speaking.
•
Victorian Assembly meets next Tuesday,
and the L.C.P. and the C.P. are planning
a joint no-confidence motion against the
Cain Government Wheat, spuds, land-
policy and finance will be the main heads
of attack, but the move will be a gesture
more than anything else —Cain has the
numbers to make its defeat a certainty.
• •
A few hours after his Parliament opens
Cain is flying to New Zealand for further
Tatt’s-talks >with P.M. Holland. The
migratory sweepstake is to be housed in
Snow’s building, opposite Fiinders-street
station and only a few doors away from
Chloe.
• •
When is a bribe not a bribe? When
it’s beer-money,
• •
Cahill is sticking to his party’s tradition
that no one but a “Labor” politician is
properly qualified to fill the post of N. S.
Wales Agent-General. McKell sent his
Lands Minister Tully to London in 1946
and Cahill has appointed Mines Minister
Buckley to succeed him. It seems that
Evatt minor was the only other one really
in the race. - A pity he didn’t win. He
could have carried his zeal for reforming
the R.S.P.C.A. right into the London
headquarters of the movement. And what
a post from Nvhich to embarrass one’s
colleagues!
• •
Buckley’s predecessor as Mines Minister
was also in the news last week when he
asked the Divorce Court for a suspension
or variation in alimony payments to his
first wife. Arthur said he was now out of
employment and his only income was his
£9-a-week Parliamentary pension. He had
paid £lOOO of his costs incurred in the
royal commission and there was another
£3OOO outstanding. He felt that his costs
were a Government liability. A quite
understandable feeling, but not one that
many taxpayers will share with him.
Cahill and Cb. are probably doing some
very deep thinking on the subject, but it’s
a safe bet they won’t announce any
decision before May 29.
• •
Arthur also hopes the Government will
reimburse * him £l4oo’ for “expenses in-
curred on a trip overseas when he was a
Minister,” This, says the former Minister
for Mines, is a matter for the Premier.
It is also a matter for the Auditor-
General. The facts are that Arthur’s over-
seas trip was planned as a honeymoon
and he was asked by the Government to
look into certain aspects of coalmining
while he was away. As a Minister is not
permitted to hold any office of profit
under the Crown this means that Arthur
would be entitled only to out-of-pocket
expenses incurred. To the casual observer
it would seem that one could look down
quite a lot of coalmines for £l4OO.
Is it that Cahill thinks the same? It’s
quite a long time since the honeymoon.
• •
“Brish Conshishusion” is apparently
no longer used by the Victorian police as
a test for drunkenness, but on the other
hand they haven’t got to the stage of
introducing scientific blood-tests. In a
Melbourne court a constable who had
charged a man with drunken driving
described the test he had applied. He
had told the man to stand on tiptoe, with
his feet together, his eyes closed and his
arms stretched out in front of him. The
man had lurched forward. The appeal
judge had not heard of the test before,
so he asked the policeman to demonstrate
it. The cop did so —and lurched for-
ward. Test ruled out as unreasonable.
A B.M.A. committee in London has
defined intoxication as a condition in
which a person has lost control of his
faculties “to such*an extent that he is
unable safely to execute the occupation
in which he is engaged at the material
time.”
It warns, however, that almost every
symptom of intoxication is also found
in one or another illness.
e •
The false report that more than a
million-pounds’-worth of Russian salmon
was to be imported shortly is still getting
some circulation, but recent events in the
Pacific suggest that Russian canned fish
•will be as suspect as Japanese tuna. Even
the Comrades would probably avoid
radioactive Red salmon.
• •
Queensland Industrial Court is con-
sidering applications for variations in the
State basic wage—at present £ll ss. The
unions are asking for a £2 rise and
the employees for a 7s. reduction to bring
the rate level with the Federal wage,
as it was for years until the suspension
of quarterly adjustments of Federal
awards.
There was an echo of Premier Gair’s
recent moan that Queensland tradesmen
R.I.P.
“No need for an inquest, Joe. Clearly a case of death from
natural causes.”
were being filched by employers in other
States with offers of higher wages. Trades
Hall president Dawson claimed that
Queensland was a low-wage State. Barry,
J., president of the Industrial Court,
refused to accept this submission and
said Dawson’s own figures refuted it. It
was a low cost-of-living State.
• •
Attorney-General Billy Sheahan, in the
course of a N. S. Wales Assembly debate,
accused the “Sydney Morning Herald”
of having “incarcerated its former man-
ager in a mental institution” after he had
had “a difference of opinion with Mr.
Warwick Fairfax and Mr. Henderson.”
After the man had been found in 1942 by
A. B. Piddington, K.C., continued
Sheahan, “the amount of settlement
agreed upon in order to keep the case out
of the courts was some thousands of
pounds,”
Warwick Fairfax and Rupert Hender-
son promptly gave the statement an
emphatic denial and challenged the
larrikin Attorney-General to repeat it
outside Parliament. To this the Minister
nobly replied that he could not fight the
Press in the columns of the Press and
that he would choose his own methods
and his own weapons.
If there is any basis at all for Sheahan’s
allegation it would be interesting to hear
the Attorney-General explain why the
“Labor” Government, which was in
power in 1942 and has been continuously
ever since, allowed such an abominable
crime to be “settled” by a money payment
out of court.
In Victoria Communists and people
with colored skins are not the only ones
barred from membership of the A.W.U.
—2B “Labor” politicians have also been
given their marching orders and told to
find another union. Official reason is that
only persons working in an industry
covered by A.W.U. awards are eligible
for membership.
• •
Latest dispatches from Victoria’s
onion-war front; When a couple of hun-
dred Onion Board vigilantes, led by the
brother of the board chairman, tried to
stop a truckload of the esculents bound
from Warrnambool for the N.S.W. bor-
der, they were forcibly prevented by a
police-cordon. Meanwhile, in Melbourne,
Smith, J., after reading a writ and affi-
davit which claimed there might be blood-
shed if the board wasn’t restrained, said
that as the board legally owned the
onions it was justified in trying to protect
its property. However, on Friday his
Honor issued an order restraining the
board from interfering with a consign-
ment of onions booked for Sydney by
road. He emphasised that the order
applied to -one specific cargo and that the
hearing of the application for a, general
injunction would continue on Monday.
• ' •
In appointing a new Judge in
Divorce, N.S.W. Cabinet should select
a worthy successor to Toose, J. —one
who will work .five days a week and who
understands the jurisdiction. Toose was
an ideal man for the job. The N.S.W.
divorce-list is so crowded with cases that
an able and diligent judge is needed to
take charge of the jurisdiction. .
The N.S.W. “Labor” Cabinet treats the
administration of the law much too poli-
tically and offhandedly. The court build-
ings are mostly a disgrace, though a fine
new Maritime Services Bpard building
was completed just in time to house
Admiral McGirr when he stepped down
from the Premiership. And there has been
much to criticise in the manner of some
appointments to the Bench. Also, coun-
try people seeking justice in circuit courts
often have to wait an insufferably long
time. The whole Ministerial approach
to the administration of justice needs
revision. Under McKell, McGirr and
Cahill not to mention Sheahan —
“justice” has tended to become “just us.”
• •
Voting in the Soviet “elections” reached
a new high—99.9B per cent, of those
enrolled recorded a vote. It is impossible
not to admire the efficiency of the elec-
toral machinery in the Socialist Father-
land. Apparently throughout the entire
area of the U.S.S.R. not a single polling-
booth was isolated by floods, as often
happens in Australia, and the sick, the
halt and the lame were all brought along
to vote. In fact, to attain the percentage
quoted, even those citizens who died in
the last few days before the poll must
have been propped up and enabled to do
their duty.
• •
Melbourne “Argus” published a map
showing the area which would be affected
if a hydrogen-bomb were dropped at
Jerilderie; it included Sydney, Canberra,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Broken Hill and
Newcastle. Why Jerilderie? Presumably
to show how fortunate it was that Ned
Kelly didn’t possess a hydrogen-bomb.
• •
“In the ACT”: As a result of pressure
by various (and greatly varying) groups,
the State Governments are moving to-
wards greater restrictions on literature,
imported and local, including “comics’
and pulp magazines. Apart from the
danger of censorship moving into the
political arena for the curtailment of
liberties, we will probably be treated once
more to the spectacle of uncomfortable
policemen and blushing magistrates try-
ing to arrive at some acceptable definitions
of obscenity, indecency and blasphemy.
If we must have censorship, surely deci-
sions of a literary character should be left
to a small body of acknowledged literary
experts. Couldn’t the States set up small
literary boards to deal with alleged
offences under their Acts, with the hear-
ings in public under privilege?
• •
Old birds aren’t caught with chaff —and
old cockles aren’t likely to be caught
with the Pollard plan.
• •
Without a smile on his face N. S. Wales
Chief Secretary Kelly announced that he
was considering proposals for abolishing
bookmakers and making the tote the only
legal means of betting. There was a loud
horse-laugh from the Paddock, but it
didn’t come from equine throats.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TJAVING killed half his crew under
bare suspicion. Captain Kidd was
standing knee-deep in blood in the scup-
pers looking for fresh victims. Said the
small boy next to me; “I don’t like him.
He’s too grumpy.”—“C. Ma,”
“Must be Goodenough Island!”
“Bo”: I have perforce come to accept
philosophically, as things one has to live
with, such nomenclatural horrors of
modern commerce as lubritoria, fruitolo-
gists, frockists, booteries, paint-stockists,
etc. Now our local rag-shop announces
that it has secured for patrons the ser-
vices of an expert “corsetist,” and estab-
lished a special “bra bar.” Only a natural
modesty precludes my venturing in to
satisfy my curiosity as to whether the bar
is equipped with a brass-rail for their
comfort while the girls of 18 to 78 wait
for their fractional fittings . . , What
possible association of ideas leads me to
ponder the possibility that outside this
bra bar there will always be found hang-
ing a few black Sheep?-
“Sack”: The old blue car moving
slowly down Sydney’s George-street
looked to be about a
1920 model. Across
its battered flanks
shaky white letters
proclaimed: “Second
Class. Melbourne or
Bust.” Alas, it must
have been bust —the
old veteran was being
borne along on a
trailer-truck.
* *
“J. 8.”; Fellow-
feeling? The Duke of
Edinburgh to the hus-
band of , Brisbane’s
only woman aider-
man ; “Ah, a man
after my own heart! ”
❖ ♦>
“Caston”: Tell “Cau-
boy” (B. 24/2/’54)
that the ancient and
versatile Mr. Walter
Plinge was actively en-
gaged long before Sir
Frank Benson went
into personal manage-
ment, His name ap- -
pears in a triple bill
(“Beggar’s Opera,”
“The Irish Tutor” and
“Midas”) presented by Robert Elliston,
then lessee of the old Surrey Theatre,
for many years the Mecca for trans-
pontine melodrama. The date on
the programme is October 16, 1827.
The late Lyn Harding once assured me
that Walter Plinge did exist, had entered
into and broken a contract with Elliston,
and that Elliston used his name in minor
doubled parts as a form of revenge. A
few managers in the know used the name
to carry on the doubtful joke, others with-
out knowing its origin. Sir Frank Benson
did use “Plinge” to disguise doubles in-
his lengthy programmes, until it became
the custom to give artists who played the
smaller parts in the Shakspearian and
classical plays their proper credits. But
two-years service with the doughty knight
enables me to assure “Cauboy” that no
“joke” was intended. Had Sir Frank
possessed the remnant of a sense of
humor he might have been a better actor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Balwyn”: Accustomed as we are to
connecting Jules Verne and H. G. Wells
with the origins of science-fiction, it is
surprising to find that one Francis God-
win, Bishop of Hereford (Eng.), wrote a
romance of space-travel in about 1630.
He called it The Man in the Moon. Its
hero sped into the unknown in a thing,
resembling a huge swan. Such trifles as
gravitation and oxygen - supply didn’t
bother his Grace, but the space-
traveller’s discoveries on the moon were
feasible enough. Anyway, aren’t we all
entitled to our opinions on what awaits
the first man to set foot on our frigidly
aloof satellite?
&
“Chevroford”: Melbourne’s un-
wanted babies are usually deposited on
doorsteps, but a baby in a pram appar-
ently unattached to any person was a
new phenomenon in Bourke-street. It
was taken to the nearest police-station,
but could give no coherent account of
itself, and the equipage was equally use-
less for purposes of identification. It was
“My dear , he’s been in a trance ever since the Queen patted him.”
24 hours before the parents were located.
They turned out to be honest workers
who, holidaying with the rest of the city,
had gone into a hostelry to recuperate
and had left the infant outside, secure in
the belief that nobody would want to kid-
nap a baby in these days of housing
shortage. They had each gone home sep-
arately, firmly convinced that the other
had the baby.
❖ *l* ❖
“Melbn”: - Argument has arisen over
the disposal of the arch joining St. Paul’s
Cathedral with Young and Jackson’s pub
in Melbourne, which' arch the Chamber
of Manufactures designed and erected
just in time for the Royal visit. The
chamber wanted it left as a permanent
decoration ; the Lud Mayor said no. The
chamber then suggested leaving it till the
Olympic Games at least; the Lud Mayor
said no, put it in cold-storage. In the
meantime some optimist changed the
legend on it from- “Welcome” to “Gate-
way to the City,” but the Lud Mayor still
said no, so the chamber has to remove
it at its own expense, or else. This seems
a bit ungrateful, since the arch was pro-
bably the most effective of the city’s
decorations.
“Myuna”: About 800 ft. of film cover-
ing the Queen’s arrival in Queensland
and early events of the Royal tour there
was lost in the Constellation crash at
Singapore, but the completed film of the
Queen in Australia will still have about
8000 ft. shot in Queensland, Altogether
the film will be of about 50,000 ft,, of
which the first reel, showing the arrival
in Sydney, has already been processed in
London under the editorship of Austra-
lians in the News and Information
Bureau. The Canberra sequences, despite
rain on the day of the opening of Parlia-
ment and restricted flood-lighting inside
Parliament House, have been recorded in
striking color with excellent results.
♦l* nj.
“Narumee”: Most succinct opinion on
the Prime Ministerial busts in Ballarat’s
avenue (B. 16/ 3/ ’54), and one with which
Mr. Menzies would probably be in hearty
agreement, was from a schoolgirl not long
back from London and a visit to the
Tower: “Well, Mummy, I don’t know
what they all did, but it’s a shame they
had to be beheaded! ”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Og”: The flapper was eagerly telling
her past-flapper-stage friend at the up-
stairs window about the high-class dances
her new and affluent boy-friend was plan-
ning on taking her to. “S’pose you’ll be
wearing one of them smart off-the-
shoulder evening-gowns,” said the older
one “Good heavens, no,”
answered flapper with a deprecatory
sniff. “Off-the-shoulder is on the nose!”
♦> »j» $
“Scarb”: The staff-manager did not
think Bogger Bill looked the type for a
lift-driver, but the emporium’s need was
desperate, “Any experience?” he asked.
“Sure, twelve years in Kalgoorlie,”
Bogger replied, forgetting to state that
that was in charge of a cage on one of
the biggest mines. Liftman Bogger
found the new job a bit different from
running miners up and down, but he
adjusted himself. Till, inevitably, the
job began to pall, and as his nerves wore
thin so did his cloak of respectability.
Came the summons. “I have to advise
you,” the staff-manager began, “that
you will be taken off the lift immediately
and your services terminated next week.
As you know, the correct procedure
when stopping at the third floor should
be to open the door and say in a quiet
and cultured voice, ‘Anybody for the
If anything, the new Bant Singer,
Have Patience, Delaney !, which is to
be The Bulletin’s next serial, moves
at an even faster pace than its pre-
decessor—and all who read You’re
Wrong, Delaney will agree that that’s
saying quite a lot. The sheer speM
of the new one is, in fact, really
extraordinary; the way the writer
has sustained it from the opening lines
to the end is, apart altogether from
the fascination of a story loaded with
suspense and packed with action, a
first-rate achievement in fiction-writ-
ing. Have Patience, Delaney! begins
as a serial in The Bulletin on April
14.
second, first or ground floors?’ Not, as
reported to me this morning, ‘Come on,
you b s, I’m not here all day! Any
of you going down?’ ”
“P.0.M.C.”: Those coin-tossing dis-
cussions recall the classic story of the
mug playing the allegedly fairest game on
earth for the first time. Picking up one
of the coins and surprised at discovering
a head on both sides of it, he exclaimed:
“Gripes, look at this —a misprint from the
Mint!”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Eve”; My gnawing of tea-and-toast
in a King’s Cross cafe was enlivened by
the cove at the next table studying the
menu and arguing with the waitress.
“Grilled rump.steak, six-and-three, it says
here.” “That’s right, sir.” “Well, under
it, it says an egg cooked with the grill is
a bob extra.” “Right again, sir!” “But
eggs only cost sixpence each; what’s the
other zac for?” “I suppose it’s for gas
and the fat the egg’s fried in and”
“But you’d have the gas going to grill the
steak, wouldn’t you? And a bit of fat
wouldn’t cost a farthing.” “The effort of
cooking an egg is surely worth some-
thing.” “Yair, but not a zac.” “Listen,
sir, d’you want an egg or an argument?”
“Well, I’ve had the latter, so now I’ll
have the egg as well. But —don’t cook
it, thanks. Bring it here raw for sixpence
and I’ll suck it while you fix the grill.”
THE NEW POLITENESS
ẃ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A HUGE crowd blocked Market-street,
Sydney. Somewhere in the heart of
it a brass-band played stirring marches,
nothing visible of the musicians except
a pair of hands that whirled drumsticks
aloft in the reflection of near-by Neons.
Policemen sweated with their labors to
part the crowd in order to keep a single
line of motor-traffic moving. Joining the
throng, I asked a spectator what was
afoot. He had no idea. One after another
I tried three more —they didn’t know,
either. Giving it up, I strode off. Sud-
denly a fanfare of sirens burst forth.
Headed for Market-street came a pro-
cession of shining sports-cars ; in each
posed two girls wearing sashes identifying
them as finalists in a glamor-girl compe-
tion. I must be getting old—l noticed
one of the cars. Its number began with
ADO.—“Sackfair.”
♦l< *l* ♦>
“Gunyah”: Directly adopted from
pagan races in the first place, I suppose
earrings must remain pagan adornments.
Yet I’ll bet the pretty young woman
seated in front of me in the bus on her
way to church the other Sunday, complete
with Bible and prayer-book, would have
resented any such accusation, in spite of
the pair of exquisitely-minute gold cruci-
fixes dangling from her ears.,
“Roscoe”: Two of my cobbers, con-
fined-to-barracks one weekend at the
R.A.A.F.-held Exhibition Buildings, Mel-
bourne, discovered a hole in the wall on
the far side of the disused oval at the
back of the building. The hole was just
large enough for access to the free-world
beyond, the concept of which, to the
circumscribed pair on the Saturday, was
the pub. 200yds. away across the gardens.
A minor inconvenience for them was that
they had to report back to the guard-
house on every hour. At each succeeding
check-in their gait was a little unsteadier,
their speech a little thicker. But they got
away with it —till at the 6 o’clock roll-
call they could barely hold each other up.
Result, a new charge against them and a
harsher punishment, cells for seven days.
❖ ❖
“M.S.”: Somebody has been asking
for the history of the Royal Terrace, a
lovely 100-year-old Fitzroy .building
which figured in Early Melbourne Archi-
tecture, reviewed recently in The
Bulletin. It was built in the early ’fifties
by one John Moon Bryant, who got .tired
of city life in Bourke-street and moved
out into the wild bush of Fitzroy. The
bluestone was quarried at Brunswick;
the builders were the Barwell brothers.
There isn’t any bush there now and the
house is surrounded by hospitals and
tramlines. A descendant of the original
owner still lives in one of the terrace
houses—and has for 84 years.
♦l* ❖
“Ceg” gets his hair cut:
“Gent.’s hair-cut: 3s. 3d. No Shaving.” So
read the sign, but under the paint could be
deciphered: “Hair-cut 6d. Shave 3d.” The
change was not only in the
prices. I remembered the shop
with veranda-posts painted in
vivid red-white-and-blue stripes,
with, outside, the carved figure
of a huge Highlander—or was he
a Zulu? Over the low doorway,
“Smith’s Cigar Divan.” It was a
snug little shop—er, divan—-and
on the counter stood the brightly-
polished brass scales in which
smoking-mixtures were blended
and weighed. The stock of pipes
included penny clays and good
cherrywoods at sixpence. The
bowls of the clays were moulded
in all sorts of fancy shapes, and
there were also long church-
wardens much in demand for
smoke-nights. Down a little pas-
sage was a blue- and red-glass
panelled door inscribed in-
flourishing gold letters, “Saloon.”
This was really the hub of the
town. Wall decorations included
colored prints of the Dark Town
Fire Brigade in frantic operation,
advertisements for Quke’s Cameo
cigarettes, Two Seas tobacco and
Yankee Doodle smoking-mixture,
which featured a blood-soaked
and bandaged drummer-boy be-
having most gallantly under the
Stars and Stripes. Somewhat dif-
ferent from the luscious undraped
females of to-day. The odor of
cigar-smoke, mingling with the perfume of the
oils, suggested an Oriental atmosphere, giving a
certain aptness to the word “divan.” Cigars were
freely smoked then, and a wide selection ranged
from Matadors, at 3d., to bundles of small
cheroots for as little „as id. each. Well, all
that’s in the past, and the chap who now
runs the place won’t be bothered with shaves —
there’s more money in haircuts. Some may
think that an improvement, but I has me
doubts. On the way out, instead of an ounce
of your special mixture weighed and blended
on the little brass scales, you may, if you’re
lucky, be favored with a small packet of Aus-
tralian cigarettes by the rapacious female at
the cash-register—from under the counter.
“Dumbar” : Residents of “Melbourne’s
hill playground” are all steamed-up
about the closing of the Ferntree Gully
light-railway, famed for its two small,
high-funnelled, “Puffing Billy” engines.
The Victorian Railways Commissioner
claims the service is uneconomic, but there
is much local support for running it on a
private basis. The Welsh Talyllyn light-
railway is now maintained by a Preserva-
tion Society, while a letter in the London
“Spectator” lately appealed for funds to
re-open the Kent and East. Sussex line,
closed by British Railways in January.
As a pointer to a suitable name for the
Ferntree Gully project, the organisation
sponsoring the appeal for the K. and E.S.
is getting steam up under the resounding
title of “The Society for the Reinvigora-
“Make haste, you oaf —I cant hold this up all day!"
tfon of Unremunerative Branch Lines in
the United Kingdom.”
if* *l* ❖
“Balwyn”: “Horncastle’s” mention of
The Bulletin creating kinship among its
readers (B. 17/3/’54) brings to mind my
first encounter with poet Edward Har-
rington—at a meeting of a literary club
in Melbourne about seven years ago,
when Ted recited his own memorial piece
on Paterson (“Banjo Is Not Dead”)
which had originally appeared in these
pages. Happening to have an article on
Banjo salvaged from an old Red Page, I
showed it to Ted when he came off the
platform. It interested him so much that
I left it with him. It was fair, exchange
for the choice morsels of his own
memories of both Paterson and Lawson.
♦> *x*
“Bosun’s Mate”: Just finished reading
The Great Iron Ship, which tells of the
Great Eastern’s Atlantic cable-laying and
the crew’s struggle with the untried thread
they were spinning from U.K. to U.S.
What wouldn’t the old-timers have given
for something of the quality of the mon-
ster snake British Insulated Callender’s
Cables, Ltd., recently contracted to drop
“The Canadian Maunties have nothing on her—she always gets her man!"
between Vancouver Island and the Can-
adian mainland! Seventy-seven miles
long, the cable is 138,000-volt gas-pres-
sure type, in lengths of 17 miles, laid in
water at depths up to 600 ft. Four single-
core cables will be laid—Three for use,
one as reserve ; the circuit is capable of
transmitting 150,000 horsepower. To pro-
tect it from rocks, worms and such, it
will start on the outside with a special
anti-corrosive armor-plating, covering a
lead-alloy sheath, protecting in turn pre-
impregnated insulation, the whole wrapped
round the hollow copper conductor which
will carry the juice. Weight—over 3000
tons,
♦> ❖
“Sack”: “The Cruel Sea” in a Syd-
ney picture-house; the audience sitting
forward in taut emotion. The captain
of the corvette standing at the rail, bot-
tling-up his horror at the results of the
terrible choice he had been compelled
to make in releasing depth-charges
amongst survivors from his own convoy.
Suddenly, in a scream, an overwrought
seaman on the ship: “Bloody mur-
derer!” Three seconds later the voice
of a very young girlie piping from the
back-stalls: “Bloody' murderer! ” The
mother’s horrified “Shush!” was
drowned in a wave of laughter that
rolled to the front-stalls. Judging by
that maternal gasp, the toddler had
never heard the adjective at home, but,
if I know kids, the incident is not closed.
Some day, perhaps months ahead, a
certain mother will be entertaining a
religious aunt . . .
* ,
“Kelms”: A book which the Collins
publishing house expects to bring out in
May or June is claimed “to erase
Lawrence [of Arabia] from the pages of
history except as the creator of a myth
that was too readily believed by a credu-
lous world.” It’ll have to be good.
Lawrence may not have been the exact
replica of the hero of Seven Pillars f
Wisdom, but he did write that book no
mean feat in itself—and his exploi s
earned the respect of high Army officers
who were jealously opposed to his un-
orthodox methods. In fact, support for
his irregulars was refused until they took
Akaba, the only Red Sea port the Turks
captured. Lawrence offered to take the
town with 200 troops ; when this was
refused he attacked with some Arab cut-
throats to whom he had promised loot,
There was loot, but little food ; so he
persuaded the Arabs to hold the town.
and the prisoners, he returned with a
British force. They gave him a week to
get back. He returned well within the
time in H.M.S. Durham, doing the initial
trip to Suez, on a camel, in 24 hours. A
week later an Australian patrol, mounted
on camels, did the same trip in a forced
march and took a week. There are other
facts which seem to be irrefutable.
Lawrence did organise the railway-sabo-
tage gangs which harried the Turks’ lines-
of-communications ; he was captured by
the Turks, and was at Deraa flogged
almost to death and possibly to impotence
—which may explain why, at the capture
of Deraa after his escape, he gave his
gang of “cut-throats” orders to take no
prisoners. Also, he did like fast-riding on
a motor -bike, and he was killed on his
machine in 1935 while swerving to avoid
two boys oil bicycles. These and other
facts will take a lot of debunking.
♦J> ❖
“Melbn”; Melbourne hasn’t such a
large number of beautiful buildings—and
a bad deed was being done on the little
old church in front of the National
Gallery when I passed it the other day.
Workmen were giving a coat of paint to
the facade, already spoiled by some
earlier decorator with a thick coat of
plaster. Instead of painting it they should
have been scraping the plaster off. It is
built of beautiful old hand-made bricks,
and a took at the rear, which has
remained unplastered, would tell anybody
with eyes that the plaster has smothered
a little gem of early Melbourne
architecture.
♦> ❖ ❖
“C. 8.”: Values? Tobson, a university
man who has been getting £3 10s. a day
as a casual laborer on buildings, met me
in a Melbourne cafe, sat down, ordered a
seven-and-sixpenny lunch and said,
“This is the last time I’ll be dining here.”
“Why?” I asked. “I’ll be getting five-
shillings a day next week,” he said.
“How’s that?” I queried. “Well,” he
told me, “I’ll be a B.A. and I’m going
in for teaching.”
“Tombee” : The popularity of the
Duke of Edinburgh is akin to that of
Edward Prince of Wales during and just
after War I, At Tel el Kebir in 1917
Edward was reviewing Australian Light
Horse Regiments, who’d been waiting
hours under a blistering sun. Thinking
the tired troops would welcome the
earliest possible ending of the parade,
the Prince did not complete his inspec-
tion, but galloped away with his aides.
As he did so the sonorous tones of thou-
sands of Light Horsemen deliberately
counting him out fell on the princely ears.
Windsor returned at the gallop and com-
pleted his inspection. Then, grinning,
and to the sound of the same sonorous
voices, this time counting him in, the
man who was for a time Edward VIII
rode away.
GREAT EXPECTATIONS
ẅ
NS.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The sport of spear-fishing round Aus-
tralia has developed into real deep-sea
diving—with wide scope for salvage and
discovery work. It all started, mainly,
through the efforts of frogmen in War
ll—and their close-fitting suits developed
through a tragic lesson. A normally-
suited diver was sent down to investigate
two parachuted German mines in the
Thames. They were extra-sensitive
acoustic types; the diver’s air-bubbles
sent them off. So the present bubbleless
suit was designed. One of the War II
frogmen, Australian Lt.-Cdr. H. S. Batter-
ham, was landed in Gibraltar to clear
limpet-mines from two cruisers’ hulls.
His own job finished, he swam over to
help his mate, an R.N. lieutenant, and
found him in a Hollywoodesque fight
with an Italian frogman—the enemy died,
on the point of the R.N. man’s icnife.
Recently Batterham, with three others of
the newly-formed Oceanic Explorers’
Club, dived to a record depth of 110 ft.
in Westernport Bay, near Flinders Naval
Depot. Next day Sydney members of the
Underwater Explorers’ Club dropped a
further 2ft. down off North Head. Sec-
retary Donald Linklater has wisely called
for co-operation in developing the new
science, not foolhardy competition.
• •
“Ek Dum” notes an appointment:
Brigadier Charles Norman Peters, 0.8. E.,
M.V.0., p.s.c., who takes over command of
the Army Staff College at Queenscliff (Vic.), is
one of the prized Heritage vintage of Dun-
torooners; he was at the college about the time
the foundations of Federal Parliament House
were laid in the early ’twenties. He joined the
Staff Corps as a lieutenant in 1927,. and a year
or so afterwards had early experience as an
artilleryman with the “heavies,” after which
he went to India for a special course, returning
to become, at 26, Adjutant and Q.M. to the
15th Field Brigade, from which he transferred
PETERS, Promoted
to the sth Field Brigade in 1938. One of the
early members of the Second A.I.F. —his num-
ber NX78 —he went away a major, saw the
busiest of Middle Eastern service with the 2/1
Field Regiment until he was captured at Kala-
mata (Greece) in ’4l, and spent the rest of
his war in Oflag 9 A/Z. He was, incidentally,
one of those who helped to wind-up the Second
A.1.F., as late as 1947. Staff duties and rapid
promotion followed, and after a little more
than a year as G. 5.0.1, H.Q., Western Com-
mand, he came to Eastern Command as
colonel, General Staff, and has since been a
prominent figure in the military life of Sydney
in several roles —as president of the H.Q.
officers’ mess, Eastern Command, as a coun-
cillor of the United Service Institution, and,
finally, as the N. S. Wales Marshal of the
Royal visit: he was the dashing, dark-
moustached officer in ceremonial control whom
all the crowd-cynics hoped to see fall over his
sword on Royal occasions, but who, with con-
summate skill, refrained from doing it. He
was twice decorated during the visit —with the
0.8. E., awarded in Coronation Honors, and
with the M.V.O. At 46, he is one of the most
intensively trained staff officers in the Regular
Army—earlier an attendapt at the Staff College
which he is now to command and with a
brilliant future certain.
• •
A Scotch College old-boy and a former
headmaster there step into the two top
positions at Melbourne University, and
both carry the marks of war wounds.
Succeeding Sir Charles Lowe as Chan-
cellor, Mr. Justice Dean graduated in law
in 1915 from the University he now
administers, but he postponed his law
start till 1919, in the interim being with
the 7th Battalion. He got his commission
in France, was wounded and gassed, and
reached the Supreme Court Bench in 1949
after a brilliant career as a Gent. One.
A leading Australian authority on patents
law, he was the University’s Warden of
Convocation for six years. Deputy-Chan-
cellor is Colin Gilray, principal of Scotch
for 20 years and a New Zealand Rhodes
Scholar. An international Rugbyite
before War I, he was wounded and won
the M.C. in that shindy while with the
Rifle Brigade. Dean is 61, Gilray 69.
Senior horticultural research-officer
H, K. Kemp has pulled up his 18-year-old
roots from South Australia’s Agricultural
Department. He’ll bed ’em down on his
own orchard and grazing property at
Balhannah in the Adelaide hills.
« •
“C.Q.”: They are going in for trea-
sure-hunting in a big way down at
Queenscliff, at the head of Port Phillip
Bay, where it has been going on spas-
modically for 25 years. Head hunter is
Walter Edwards, son of the late James
Edwards, the .gold-divining grazier who
20 years ago “felt out” miles of the
Queenscliff coastline with a tiny rod
which had previously made several rich
strikes in goldmining areas. It nearly
buried itself in the earth half-a-mile. out-
side Queenscliff, where 140 years ago
piratical Benito Benita is said to have
buried the gold and treasure from Peru-
vian cathedrals, said loot having been
pinched by him from the British ship
Mary Dyer. Chased by a British man-
of-war, Ben put into Port Phillip to
escape his pursuer. He suicided when
caught, but a descendant of a member of
his crew, one “Kerosene Jack,” had
a map of the treasure-spot tattooed on
his arm; there is an awkward rumor
that he came back and removed the
booty. Undaunted by this evidence, which
sounds as if it came out of the Boys’ Own
Annual, a syndicate is using bulldozers
and other-earth-moving equipment to get
in. Walter Edwards is in the thick of it,
he being claimed to hold some of the
divining powers of his dad,
• •
Eighty-six the other day in New Zea-
land, Major-General Sir Andrew Russell,
who commanded the N.Z. Division in the
Kaiser’s war and was in charge of
arrangements for the Gallipoli evacua-
tion during the last 48 hours. Now a
sheepfarmer at Tunanui, he has kept in
touch with his old mob through the
Returned Services’ Association —presi-
dent for 13 years.
• •
’ A life of devotion to underprivileged
boys ended with the sudden passing, at
65, in Perth, of Brother Paul Francis
Keaney a few hours before he was to
sail for a long overdue holiday in his
native Ireland. A stalwart, genial educa-
tor, with a shock of snowy hair, Keaney
was in the Royal Irish Constabulary be-
fore he went to Queensland in 1911 to
work on the land. He joined the Christian
Brotherhood in 1916, moved to Westralia
three years later and, while in charge of
the Clontarf Orphanage, realised that
something infinitely better could be done
for orphan boys. Through his represen-
tations 1700 acres of virgin bush was
acquired in 1941 on the site now
called Bindoon. There Keaney lived in
a tent while he taught eight boys the ele-
ments of farming. From that beginning
came the present large Boys’ Town.
Recognition of Keaney’s services came
with award of M.B.E. and the Imperial
Service Order. The latest honor accorded
him —five days before his death—was a
special visa from Prime Minister Menzies
giving him diplomatic rights in any
country of the British Commonwealth.
Among messages of condolence received
was one from the Queen.
• •
. “X.”: A man most entitled to meet
the Queen and the Duke on their visit to
Mildura, William Herbert. Chaffey is a
son of one of the Chaffey brothers, the
two Americans whose faith in the
potentialities of irrigation produced Mil-
dura and a dozen other centres. They
brought their belief, in 1887, from Cali-
fornia, where they had tried it out. When
they made Mildura their selection, land
there was priced at from half-a-crown to
ss. an acre. W. H. Chaffey is manager
of the Mildura Winery at Merbein, one
of the largest in Victoria.
• •
Elected to Fellowship of the Royal
Society, Professor Thomas McFarland
Cherry (who holds the Chair of Mathe-
matics at Melbourne University), Profes-
sor Edwin Sherfion Hills (Geology and
Mineralogy at the same address), and
Joseph Lade Pawsey (assistant-chief of
the radio-physics divisiofa of C.5.1.R.0.
in Sydney). Professor McFarland Cherry
is described as distinguished for his
researches on transonic flow and on
orbits in celestial mechanics; Prof. Hills
for his researches into the physiology and
pharmacology of the centtal and peri-
pheral nervous systems; Pawsey for
contributions to techniques of radio and
radar.
‘Another award has come the way of
Sir Macfarlane Burnet, world-famed
for his discoveries in vims diseases. The
University of Marburg has handed him
personally the Ehrlich and Von Behring
gold plaque, the highest scientific award
in Germany.
• •
“C. 8.”; C. W. Strutt, who returned to
London after five years in Australia as
Agricultural Adviser to the U.K. High
Commissioner (B. 24/3/’54), has an
artistic link with this country. His grand-
father, William Strutt, was a noted Eng-
lish painter who spent several years from
1850 in Victoria, painting anything that
interested him—and everything did. One
of his best-known pictures was “The
Bushrangers,” composed on the spot from
an actual incident which happened in
broad daylight in St. Rilda-road. He
depicted the departure of Burke and
Wills, the opening of Prince’s Bridge and
the first Legislative Council sitting in
solemn conclave. Perhaps his finest piece
of pictorial illustration was “Black,Thurs-
day, February 6, 1854,” when bushfires
swept the State and threatened Mel-
bourne. His grandson has presented the
original sketch, for “The Bushrangers” to
the Commonwealth National Library.
• •
111 health compels the resignation of
Clive Palmer, general-secretary of the
Liberal and Country League in Wes-
tralia for the past nine years. A War I
Light-horseman, he was in khaki-again
for the next show, ending his service as
lieutenant-colonel in command of the
northern sector of Westralia. Between
wars he ran a sheep-and-dairy farm in
the Boyup Brook district.
• •
Charles Bush, Australia’s most frequent
winner of art-prizes, once again landed
the George Crouch £lOO prize at the Bal-
larat Art Gallery, with his “A Deserted
Square, Pisa,” He has now twice won
in oils and thrice in watercolor. Repre-
sented in Melbourne, Sydney and Adel-
aide galleries, and winner of prizes in
half-a-dozen cities. Bush had as judge
this time William Dobell. Incidentally,
Dobell lately visited a Victorian mental
institution where art-therapy is used to
cure patients, and of one picture—a
religious painting—remarked that it had
the spark of genius and that its author
must go oh painting. As a warning to
those modernists who have a mystical
idea about painting like children, he
added that it was the aesthetic quality in
the picture that he valued and the aesthetic
quality can’t come without knowledge.
When he asked the patient if he had* ever
taken lessons in technical drawing, and
he said “No,” Dobell was astonished.
He asked if he could keep the picture and
if he could give anything in exchange.
“I’d like,” said the patient, “any old
canvases you could spare.”
• •
Here is Joe Crompton, president of the
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce. Con-
cerned with commerce all his life—except
when he traded 6th Machine Gun Bat-
talion bullets with the Kaiser’s iron-
mongery in France —he came back to the
CROMPTON, Commerce
family company, and fought his next
battle when the depression dropped
wool- and hides-prices calamitously.
Weathered the freeze, and is now man l
aging-director of Crompton’s, as well as
directing a couple of other S.A. concerns.
Last year appointed president of the
newly-formed French Chamber of Com-
merce in Adelaide, he’s an adept at after-
dinner speaking, and, on his own admis-
sion, at spending a lot of time doing
mighty little in his garden.
Attached hereunder, Russell F,
Roberts, the very able president of
Queensland’s Flying Doctor Service.
Bom, Brisbane, youth, London, over
there he studied music and the theatre,
sold musical instruments, and got into
radio. He was manager of Brisbane’s
first commercial broadcasting station
(4BC), and is credited with establishing
the first amateur short-wave telephony
connection between Australia’s east coast
and northern India and South Africa. In
the Brisbane City Council he chaired the
Electricity and Transport Committee for
ROBERTS, Radio
a record 11-year term —and made the
trams and buses pay. In War 11, through
Station 4BH, he organised the Smokes for
Sick Soldiers’ scheme, raising £100,000;
and he has worked particularly hard for
the blind. The Royal Aero Club has for
long had his services as radio-adviser and
hon. treasurer. Hobbies with fishing,
radio and music, in that order.
• •
“H.W.M.”: Among presentations to her
Majesty in Melbourne was one from the
Bread and Cheese Club—a beautifully-
bound folder containing ah illuminated
address facing a watercolor by artist
John Loxton. The address drew atten-
tion to the fact that three members of
the club had already received Royal
honors—Sir Thomas White, High Com-
missioner in London; Group-Captain
S. C. George, M.V.0., 0.8. E., respon-
sible for planning the R.A.F.’s part in
the Coronation; and J. K. Moir, 0.8. E.
for services to Australian art and litera-
ture.
• •
Alfred O’Shea, the Australian lyric
tenor, who has taken his final curtain-call
in London at 65, went to England in the
early ’twenties and thence to Italy, where
he studied. Returning to England, his
stylish singing quickly won respect.
Melba selected him as her associate-
artist for her farewell-tour of Australia,
and he performed the same service for
Toti Dal Monte when that vivacious
soprano toured Australia and N.Z. Be-
fore he discovered that he had a voice
O’Shea was a member of The Bulletin’s
publishing staff,
• • ,
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Jock Miller, for 25 years
J. C. Williamson’s wardrobe-master. He pro-
vided the costumes for every king, duke, gentle-
man, hobo and costermonger who walked the
boards at Her Majesty’s, supervising the clobber
for just about every known type of production.
His last task was supplying the “Prince Igor”
ballet with its barbaric clothing,
In Perth, at 78, Newton B. Tindale, who com-
menced his 40-years service with the Customs
Department before Federation. He had been
sub-collector at Geraldton and at Albany, and
was chief examining officer at Fremantle when
he retired in 1941.
At 53, in Melbourne, Leo Reginald McLennan,
political correspondent of Melbourne “Herald.”
He worked in the Press gallery at Canberra
for 10 years; among his most notable scoops
was his disclosure that the Chifley Government
had nominated Mr. McKell, then Labor Premier
of N.S.W., for appointment as Governor-
General.
At Narrogin (W.A.), at 61, William Joint
Corrigan, one of the best-known men in
Westralian dairying; manager of the Great
Southern Co-operative Butter Company since
its foundation in 1921.
In Sydney, at 83, Charles James Lee Street,
educator and Old Digger. A sarge of the Ist
Battalion, he recovered from shell-blast injuries
received in the third battle of Ypres, was
seconded as an organiser and teacher to the
Army Education Scheme, after the war was
invited by the British Board of Education to
lecture, and later went into six-months residence
at Ruskin College, Oxford. On return to N.S.W.
he was a pioneer in advanced educational
methods, got a headmastership at Broken Hill,
and was later head at three Sydney schools-
One of his sons was killed in action at Rabaul
in War 11.


MIAOW - MIAOW TERRORISTS


ABORIGINALITIES
r PHE young bloke had smashed his
original motor-bike, crashed his new
one and had three falls off the borrowed
one on which he arrived at the home-
stead seeking a job. Nothing doing, he
set off, but returned next day for petrol,
which was supplied. He was back in an
hour for assistance ; trouble duly rectified.
At breakfast next morning he turned-up
again—a blow-out at the boundary-gate.
This time the boss packed him and the
bike onto the ute, to be delivered at the
railway 30 miles away. Two days later
(having got a job in the meantime), he
was due to appear on an unregistered-
firearms charge, the boss being one of
the J.P.s on the bench. The court waited
for him for an hour,, and then, led by
the prosecuting constable, set off to look
for him. Eight miles out a toot from
behind them announced the pursuing
accused! He had had another fall on
the ride in, and had then switched to a
back-track into the town because he was
“so dirty and untidy.” Later, at the police-
station, tempers were rather frayed, but
the boss explained in the pub afterwards:
“We weren’t too hard on him, but we
did confiscate the damn’ firearm!” —
“Malua.”
* * * *
“Kelms”; A Perth scientist has
- brought back from a science congress at
Manila a shell of one of the gianf snails
which are a legacy of the Japanese occu-
pation of the islands. Whether the Japs
spread them accidentally or with the
object of providing a source of food on
the hoof isn’t a big point now. The snail’s
there, and it’s there to stay. A native
of Ea£t Africa, it got to Mauritius, whence
it was taken to Calcutta by a well-mean-
ing scientist who saw in it a way to feed
India’s starving millions. It didn’t feed
them to any extent, and, strangely enough,
it didn’t increase to pest proportions until
it got to Ceylon, where either the climate
or an absence of enemies gave it the green-
light and it started to eat-out the island.
About 40 years ago it reached Singapore,
and from there it branched to most of
the Asian islands, until the Japs got hold
of it and turned the tables. They ate it;
and when they started on their projected
conquest of the world they took it along.
Wherever they gained a foothold the snail
appeared, and it’s well established now in
New Guinea. It’s going to take a lot of
keeping out of Australia.
* * * *
“Pigskin Bagman”; Add to the sandal-
woods, true or false, the “Buddha” for
which the ridge country of The Comer
(nor’-west N.S.W.) is noted. Apart from
its aromatic character and possibilities
from a wood-carver’s point of view, the
rich yellow-brown timber has a universal
use around the opal-fields. Practically
every one of the many hundreds of dumps
at Lightning Ridge was built up around a
core of Buddha timbers. The wood burns
fiercely and freely in a pile, but is un-
popular for firewood because of the
heavy, oily smoke, which stains. every-
thing. The result when Buddha is the
only wood available for use inside a small
and unventilated hut is easily imagined.
Still, a single log, ignited at one end and
left alone, will smoulder all night and
provide a rather sweet-smelling smoke
that repels mosquitoes.
♦ * ♦ •
S
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve seen natives
bringing down birds somewhat after the
manner “Fair Mac” suggests (B.
24/2/’54), but the missiles they used
weren’t returning-boomerangs, and they
weren’t used among birds that settled for
the night beside 'a “tree-fringed river.”
When Binghi went to the river for
“This place edden fit for a man t ’ go into, Cap’n. C'min 'n'
'ave look at ’un."
feathered game he wasn’t interested in
roosting birds. He went for ducks or
swans, and he went in daylight. He
speared the swans —an old abo. of my
acquaintance still speaks wistfully of the
time when he could take his pick of a
flock and spear it from the rushes. With
ducks the practice was for half the party
to circle a flock, shepherd them towards
where the other half waited, and put them
up at the right time. The waiting hunters
hurled not returning-boomerangs, but
ordinary throwing-sticks. They couldn’t
miss at that range. As for • “F.M.’s”
boomerang which “seemingly followed
the panic-stricken parrots, no matter
“Wont he long, Joe. Just helping the wife home with the shopping."
which way they turned,” there just isn’t
one made that can do it.
“Gulliver”: Having been at one time
closely associated with a herd of goats
I can assure “Metax” (B. 17/3/’54) that,
unless debarred by palings or wire-netting,
the bevy of these beauties that are going
to keep the lanes of Bumie (Tas.) free
from weeds, jam-tins and the like will
spend far more of their time in the
epicurean delights of- the ratepayers’
gardens' than in the lanes. And if they
have to wriggle on their sides under a
fence, climb it via a leaning post, or
simply jump over the thing, they’ll do so
with the greatest of speed and pleasure.
The Burnie councillors, mentioned as
volunteer goatherds, might find it relax-
ing to be kept on the run from dawn to
dark; to hurl rocks, sticks and objurga-
tions incessantly the while; and, by way
of variation, to become embroiled in
arguments with angry housewives or
pugilistically-inclined husbands, during
which the goats will improve the shining
hour by eating faster than ever. Burnie,
you can have ’em.
* * * *
“B. A. Kef” * Banana-growers are not
alone in the market for plastic as an aid
to greater production (B. 10/3 / ”54); pot-
tery-owners have lately realised its worth.*
Pottery-workers previously covered their
damp, prepared clay with hessian to keep
it workable. The practice was never suc-
cessful in hot weather: within 12 hours
the clay would' have most of the pliability
dried out; within four days it Would be
a solid mass. The owner of a small pottery
then noticed that his sandwiches always
kept fresh after his wife began packing
them in a plastic bag. He placed a lump
of clay in the bag as an experiment; 24
hours later the clay still retained all its
moistness and workability.
* * ♦ ♦
“J. 8.”: As well as jarrah shingles
(B. 3/3/’54), those made from banksia
were used extensively by early W.A.
settlers, and roofs of them are still to be
found throughout the south-west. Pro-
bably the best example is the roof of the
State’s oldest church, outside Bunbury.
Its shingles are in good order though over
90 years old.
• » * *
“Spoke”: England has a Shark Angling
Club, each member of which must have
caught a shark weighing more than 40lb.
—a tiddler by Australian standards.
Even the topweight, a porbeagle shark
weighing 2361 b., wouldn’t excite an Aus-
tralian angler. But what interests a Vic-
torian like me is the club’s announcement
that no member would dream of eating
his catch. He doesn’t even know what it
tastes like, but thinks it must be like
tunny, which it isn’t. After the club has
caught, weighed and measured the sharks
they tow them out to sea and sink them.
This would horrify the fishermen of
San Remo, which supplies most of
Melbourne’s shark-flesh. On a recent
weekend the shark-boats there filled 1000
boxes, and the catch for the week of one
boat was valued at £BOO, So much, in
fact, is the shark valued that an amateur
who landed a 14ft. blue-pointer and hung
it up on the jetty while he w6nt for a
camera-film returned to find that it had
vanished. Shark-boats go 80 miles out
into Bass Strait and lay lines seven or
eight miles long with about 8000 hooks
baited with heads of barracouta.
“Eurimburra”: Of 60,000 rabbits dug
from a 500-acre paddock here in southern
N.S.W., there wasn’t a black-and-white,
but all the other colors listed by “H.C.8.”
(B. 17/3/’54) were well represented, plus
several with hair as long and as blue as
a pedigreed Persian cat’s. The two-toned
bunnies lived in a small warren of their
own and were not scattered throughout
the tribe. The contractor called them
“Frenchies”; he attributed the color-
schemes to inbreeding.
*•♦ * *
“The Bunyip”; “Anyone can float on
his back in calm water if he breathes
deeply and lies still,” says “Trickle”
(B. 24/2/’54). That might apply at
Cottesioe or Coogee, but in the Murray,
the daddy of all our rivers, you can
inhale till you look like a poisoned pup,
and lying still you will feel the feet sink-
ing, until you are practically perpendicu-
lar, then under you go, inflation and all.
To appreciate fully the difference you
must train in the Murray or ’Bidgee,
then, when you feel in good trim, take a
trip to the sea. No grey-nurse would have
a* hope of catching you.
*****
“Fairf”; In Historic Roads Round
Sydney John Fairfax raised the question
whether the oak bearing the memorial
tablet in Parramatta Park (mentioned
in “An Early-day Aristocrat,” B.
10/3/’54) is the tree against which the
coach struck when Lady Fitzroy and
Lieut. Masters were killed. Fairfax
.quoted an old identity of Parramatta as
insisting that the wrong tree was marked.
There is little chance of proving him
right or wrong now, but what strikes me
most about all the English oaks in that
historic drive is the slowness of their
growth. It is 107 years since the tragedy
occurred, and the fatal tree must have
been big enough to overturn the coach
then ; yet not one of those oaks could
be called a big one. The renowned “Old
Oak” at Fairfield, six miles away, pro-
vides a surprising contrast. An
American oak, it was planted by Dr.
Bland nearly 20 years after the accident
in Parramatta Park. By 1939 the tree
had grown so enormous that the weight
of its unbelievable spread split the trunk
almost in two. Prompt attention by a
forestry expert saved the tree, and despite
the fact that fully a third of the
was broken off or had to be cut away
(some of the timber was used to make a
mayoral chair) it is still a mighty oak.
The Royal Historical Society values the
tree as a link with the early days —and
the colorful Dr. Bland.
LISAROW
By Lisarow
by Lisarow
1 reined about
and rode away
and left for good
and left afar
the oranges
of Ourimbah.
Adieu Mellonga,
melon-lined,
your stockyards fallen
far behind.
O, endless tryst
with anywhere
through Penny Royal
and Tiger Pear.
My luckless colt
inclines a head
as if to screen
the wind and scan
the sky for indices'
of home
and Gosford where
his father ran.
Well he may cry
and so may I,
we’ll no more that way
riding stray
where Windydrop
and Cutrock creeks
efface the fields
of Chittaway . . .
We stumble down
to drabber skies;
unseeing, slew-eyed
centaur we,
that when I broke
with Lisarow
the whole wide world
would break with me.
N.S.W.
A. J. WOOD.


UNTIL his death old Winjan, King of
his tribe, could often be seen fish-
ing from the Mandurah (W.A.) jetty,
together with his large-scale Queen. He
was waiting for a bite the day the District
Protector took him a parcel of clothing.
The first thing Winjan drew out was a
red-flannel petticoat only about one-axe-
handle across where it mattered. With a
significant glance towards the rounded
end of his spouse, the King handed it
back. “What a thing,” he said, “to hand
a lady!”—“Nimrod,”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: “Chink” claims that Quilpie
(Q.) is abo. for curlew (B. 17/2/’54), I’ve
always believed it to be a corruption of
Coorilpie, meaning whistling-duck—
which seems likely, as most siding-names
on that railway-line are abo. for different
kinds of ducks. While on the job, can
anyone tell me if the suburb of Coor-
paroo, Brisbane, was named after the
call of the doves?
♦ * * *
“Muskeen”: Wilfrid (“Birdie”) Heron,
of Tovakundum (T.N.G.), was the original
planter who placed his glass-eye on a post
for the supervision of his native labor
(B. 3/3/’54). After losing his eye on
Gallipoli, Birdie was returned to Australia
and discharged, but he immediately re-
enlisted and saw much front-line service
in France with the 59th Battalion, acquir-
ing several more wounds in the process.
One of the finest soldiers the First A.I.F.
produced, he was a p.-0.-w. in the hold
of the Monte Video Maru when it was
sunk by U.S. gunfire in the Second World
War. A younger brother, Leon, was at
one time a Bulletin artist.
♦ * ♦ #
“Emjai”: Trout caught in cold moun-
tain streams are of reasonably good flavor
if eaten promptly ; but even at its best the
“I’m Waiting for a double-decker bus”
trout is inferior to Murray cod, golden
perch (yellow-belly), blackfish, Gippsland
perch, English perch (red-fin) and the cat-
fish ; though with these also much depends
upon the water from which they are
taken. The cod from the running river
is No. 1 on any fish menu, but if taken
from a Stagnant hole is often permeated
by a rank, muddy flavor. The same
applies to the red-fins. The generally-
despised and repulsive-looking catfish, if
caught in a clear lagoon, skinned and
the under-skin fat removed to eliminate
the muddy flavor, has delicate, snow-
white flesh; that it is not more used is
due to ignorance and prejudice.
♦ * ♦ •
“Short End”; * Recent recondite dis-
course here on impulses and missing
limbs made me remember the day my
windlass counterweight dropped off while
I was descending a shaft at Lightning
Ridge (N.S.W.). It was simple to grab
at the side-ladder with my free hand
(other was full of tools). Revived by
sundry first-aid methods, and assured that
nothing was broken, I suddenly recol-
lected that I’d had no fingers on that
“free hand” for many years.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: That yam of how Tar-
ranginnie came by its name (B. 3/ 3 / ’54)
sounds plausible, but the simple fact is
that it is an aboriginal word meaning
“What?” I recall two other good abori-
ginal place-names, Michelago and Mitta-
gong, the origins of which were attri-
buted to incidents. An enraged Hibern-
ian who had a habit of pulling his missus
around the house by her hair resulting in
her cry of “Micky le’ go!” supposedly
led to the first; the other allegedly sprang
from a German settler being asked how
he called the farmhands in from the
fields for their meals and replying, “Mit
a gong.”
* * ♦ *■
“Furneaux”: A little time back visitors
to Preservation Island, in Bass Strait,
discovered the foundations of a hut once
occupied, by James Munro, known as
“The King of the Eastern Straitsmen” at
the beginning of last century. An old
sealer, he possessed a team of native
“wives” whose dexterity in seal-catching
proved a great asset. Munro was
“Remember the good old days, Maynard?"
appointed to act as Government agent,
but was actually in league with wreckers,
who gave short shrift to unfortunate
castaways who chanced to get ashore,
When the Britomart was wrecked in
1839 —i ur ed, so it was said, by false
lights—discovery of the concealed ship’s-
papers and other articles led to Munro s
being taken under escort to Hobart in a
Government ship which had come ou
in search. It was found difficult to sheet
home charges, however, and the King
duly returned to his domain. He reigned
for upwards of 40 years.
STARLINGS
Such darlings
The starlings!
They slither down the sky
And take the morning pastures
Before the grass is dry,
And whirr among the tussocks
And and whine and cry.
Such darlings
The starlings!
They cloud the orchard patch,
And peek the bloomy peaches
And apricots, and snatch
The secret berries tangled
Deep in the brambles’ thatch.
They chatter,
And scatter
Green-lacquered in the sun,
And comb my garden-borders,
Uncaring every one.
Such darlings, the starlings!—
I wish I had a gun!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
JURY-ROOM
6 4 W ELL, here’s the scran. I could do
’ ’ with some, too. Scrawny-looking
leg. Well, you’d better start carving, Mr.
Butcher.”
“Me! Do I have to carve the joint?”
“Of course you do! What else do you
think we elected you foreman for?”
“Gripes, I don’t know anything about
carving a leg—imy missus always does it.”
‘‘Don’t give us that—your name’s
Butcher, isn’t it?” ’
“I like the crackly outside part.”
“Struth, it is underdone!”
“Well, what’s your opinion, Mr.
Hogg?”
“Yair, it does look a bit rare. But it’s
all the same to me, as long as there’s
enough of it.”
“No, I mean the accused—think she’s
guilty?”
“Now, let’s talk of something pleasant
—railroad the spuds along, if you don’t
mind.”
“What do you think of her, Mr.
Taylor?”
“Look’s a bit hard-boiled, but I’d say
she’d have been quite a nifty piece a few
years ago.”
“That will be plenty, thanks, Mr.
Butcher. As I was telling you, Mrs.
Gabble, it has a boat-shaped neckline
and a double-row of buttons down the
front of the bodice, and the skirt’s pencil-
slim. It looks so sweet on her.”
“Fancy! It" should look nice. My
daughter has just made herself a moire
faille frock in a lovely mushroom-pink.”
“Oh, she makes her own, does she?
It’s such a saving, isn’t it? You know
what dressmakers charge!”
“Yes. Oh, she’s very clever at cutting-
out. Really, she can turn her hand to
anything” — —
“I dunno —every time I back the cow
something happens. Gets pocketed at
ROsehill, and last Saturday he’s last out
of the barrier. If you ask me I think
it was a ready-up. Things like that just
don’t happen. • But what are the stipes
doing?”
“Well, I reckon we ought to let her
off. They’re all a bunch of liars, I think.”
“The poor devil looks half-starved,
too.” . •
“I wouldn’t take too much notice ot
that. It’s probably self-inflicted. You
could expect someone with bottle-ginger
hair like she’s got to want to get a figure
like Marilyn Monroe’s” ——
“Mind you, Mrs. Martin, I don’t for
a moment think she did it, but I’d cer-
tainly say that any woman who’d wear
a blouse as low-cut as the one she’s got
on would be capable of doing anything.”
“I think so, too. Though, mind you,
I know a lot of other women who are
brazen enough to wear an exaggerated
plunging neckline like that. I have a
neighbor—she’s forty-five if she’s a day—
and some of the things, she wears you’d
only expect to see worn by—well, cer-
tainly not .by anyone who has any respect
for herself. And yet as far as I know
she’s otherwise respectable, though, of
course, you never know. Some of them
are deep.”
“Orright. She might have tea-leaved
his dough. But did you get an eyeful of
the bloke she’s supposed to have prised
it off? I wouldn’t trust him as far as I
could throw him, and the big overfed blob
is easily fifteen-stone. I’d say one’s as
bad as the other.”
“That isn’t the point. It’s she who’s on
trial, not him. If she’s guilty she’s guilty
and that’s all there is to it.”
“Well, there’s no need to get on your
high horse about it”
“You cream the butter and sugar and
add the juice of half-a-lemon. You don’t
add the coconut till the last. It’s a lovely
mixture, I do mine in a recess-tin and
fill it with whipped-cream, with straw-
berries on the top.”
“It would be nice! I’ll get the recipe
from you if you don’t mind. You know,
Mrs. Gabble, when I first got this notice
to serve on the jury to-day I could have
cried. My neighbor —that’s the one I was
telling you about—and’l were going to
see that picture ‘Burning Lips’ this
morning. We were so disappointed, be-
cause it’s the last day. But I’m glad I
came along here now. How much flour
did you say?” •
“Ladies and genTmen. I suppose we’d
better try and reach a decision. Hands
up those who find the accused guilty.
Two—Mrs. Gabble and Mr. Hogg. The
rest of us find she’s not guilty. Now, it’s
no use our going back and saying we
can’t agree. Mr. Hogg, what are your
reasons for thinking she’s guilty?”
“Well, she looks the sort that would
grab a wad if she thought she could, get
away with it.” .
“That’s no evidence to say she did.
Besides, the chief witness for the prose-
cution was proved by accused’s counsel
to have told lies on other counts. It is
quite likely he was also lying in this
matter.”
“They’re probably both liars” ——
“It’s not been proved in evidence
against her. She’s reasonably entitled to
the benefit of the doubt, I think.”
“Oh, all right, then. I’ll be with the
rest.”
“That only leaves you, Mrs. Gabble.
Why do you think she’s guilty?”
“Why! Anyone can see —she’s got the
look of it all over her! And a woman
in her position couldn’t get costume-
jewellery like she’s wearing honestly.
Why, I couldn’t afford a marcasite
brooch like the one she has. Besides, she
admitted having been divorced.”
“She’s not on trial for wearing brooches
of being a divorcee, Mrs. Gabble. Have
you any other reasons?”
“Well, I just don’t like the look of her,
that’s all. Her eyes are too close together,
and she wears a silly-looking kiss-curl
plastered low on her forehead. She looks
common.”
“Mrs. Gabble, that wasn’t mentioned as
a specific charge by the prosecutor. Look,
if we don’t reach a unanimous decision
well be locked up for the night.
there are eleven of us believe” ——
“Locked up! My heavens! My family
would never live the shame of it down.”
“You’ve made your mind up she’s not
guilty, then?” ■
“Oh, I suppose if you say so. AH the
same, I still say I wouldn’t trust her, and
especially with my husband. Any woman
brazen enough to wear”
“Well, that’s settled then. We may as
well go back into court now and announce
our finding”
“Could you wait a few minutes longer,
Mr. Butcher? I just want to give a recipe
to Mrs. Martin”
BO.


Industrial Enterprise
m
m
One of the earliest Australian
inventions of world import-
ance was the first mechanized
appliance to take ripe grain
from standing crops'. It was
known as the ‘Stripper’ and
was pushed hy horses.
The present offers opportunities
no less than the past
has been our privilege, since
the early days, to meet the banking
needs of those whose resource and
enterprise has helped to develop the
wealth of Australia.
To-day, owned and staffed by Aus-
tralians, we offer a modern and
complete banking' service for the
further development of Industry and
Commerce.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OE VICTORIA LIMITED
ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNIT
FOB SAFE
“Alternator, comprising Gardner
Diesel 60 Horse Power Engine,
direct coupled to 50 K.V.A. alter-
nator. Fitted with self-starter; suit-
able for large farm. Standard supply
voltage and frequency. Excellent con-
dition. £1,200. Inspect at 113 Palmer
Street, East Sydney. Aston Electrical
Products Pty. Ltd. Phone FA7057.”
Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
spir Tumm
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty In obtaining XIIiLiBY
products.
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: ("THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Business Rollery Etc.
March Over
'T'HE month of March, usually
1 so uncertain on Australian
Stock Exchanges, is closing with-
out much loss of investment-
share values. Many stocks close
for the month with prices a little
lower than at the opening, but
there has been nothing of a
startling nature in the mild
decline. Tooth dropped a little
after the previous strong rise ;
British Tobacco was slightly
lower; so were C.S.R., Bank of
N.S.W., Burns Philp and
Bradford Cotton. A variety of
second-line stocks were a shade
weaker —R. B. Davies, Gadsden-
Hughes, McPhersons and Taub-
mans. B.H.P. was stronger, and
so were Masonite and Drug
Houses.
A steadying influence during,
the month was the fact that a
number of interim dividends
were higher, and production
statistics in many industries
indicated a record financial year.
Hosiery cos. have been doing
exceptionally well, and support
for Lustre and Holeproof has
stepped up. The electrical-
appliance industry has made a
good recovery, and Email shares
have firmed.
The high activity in the steel
industry has already been
reflected in the accounts of Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel. After
providing £2,269,911 for depre-
ciation, £450,000 for increased
cost of plant-replacement and an
unspecified amount for taxation,
net profit was £1,275,459, com-
pared with £713,213 in the pre-
ceding year. This concern now
has £32 million invested in fixed
assets, against a paid capital of
£14.5 million. It is increasing
nominal capital to £4O million,
but says there is no intention
of issuing more capital at present.
B.H.P. owns all the ords.
The Commonwealth 4j p.c.
loan has distracted attention
from the sharemarket over the
past month. The loan has been
strongly supported, many in-
vestors considering that 4y p.c.
will not be offered on gilt-edged
securities again in the near
future.
Millions of Oil Shares
Oil-shares and uranium-shares
by the million are coming on to
the Australian sharemarket
almost every week. There were
the early new issues by Ampol
Petroleum (2,800,000 ss. shares
at 155.), Oil Search, ” Ltd.
(2,500,000 of ss. each at par),
Freney and Papuan-Apinaipi.
More recently Australian Oil and
Gas has issued four-million ss.
shares for cash, and Australasian
Oil Exploration has put out
4,200,000 ss. shares for cash and
is allotting 800,000 to the
vendors. There are many other
newcomers in the offing, mostly
contemplating the issue of shares
by the million.
Under the new joint arrange-
ment between Freney Kimberley
and Associated Australian Oil-
fields shareholders in Freney will
be entitled to take up 2,700,000
10s. shares for cash in Asso-
ciated Freney Oilfields, while
Associated shareholders will be
offered 3,500,000 10s. shares for
cash. A public issue of 400,000
shares will also be made. Includ-
ing vendors’ consideration, total
issue is 8,000,000 10s. shares.
The drilling programme of
West Australian Petroleum at
Rough Range (W.A.) suggests
that Ampol Exploration will be
asking for more capital before
very long, of which part will be
provided by the. public and part
by Ampol Petroleum, which has
recently raised funds for the
purpose. Apparently the
Exploration issue will run into
millions of shares.
So it goes on. Up till now all
the new issues have been taken
up rapidly. But so far the only
oil-strike has been the one at the
3615 ft. level at Rough Range
(W.A.). The much-boosted
prospect of oil from the Omati
(Papua) bore of Australasian
Petroleum has not yet come
good. Oil Search, Ltd., one of
the holding cos. in the Papuan
drilling enterprise, has never
boosted its chances, but market
sources of information have been
almost positive in their con-
fidence.
Confidence is a little shaken
now. The jambed bit and drill-
pipe m»y take more shifting than
anticipated, and a new hole may
have to be drilled to test the
structure. Prospects in Papua
are still encouraging from the
long-term view, but patience—
and be needed.
The flood of nev oil-shares is
not being accompanied by any
exciting news from the fields.
Rough Range No. 1 well is
down to 7649 ft. without striking
any more oil-sands. Not even
gas has yet been reported from
the new Roma hole. The weight
of the scrip put on the market
by new oil nos. and new uranium
cos. in the past three months,
and the promise of so much
more, could very easily bring a
pronounced sagging in the
market for all oil-scrip, especially
in view of the high capitalisation
—about £lOO million in each
case —of both Rough Range and
Omati.
Uranium-shares are coupled
with oil-shares here because they
both have a substantial backing
of sucker-money. In both
uranium-prospecting and the
search for oil in Australia, some
of the cos. concerned are
stumbling about more or less in
tile dark. Very little of a proved
nature is known about either
uranium or oil in Australia. As
the number of oil-shares and
uranium-shares multiplies, so do
the odds against being on a good
thing even if one company or
another does strike it lucky.
Rootes (Australia), Ltd.
The issue of 800,000 ords. of
10s. each by Rootes (Australia),
Ltd., which was registered in
Melbourne on December 22,
1953, has been oversubscribed.
There was an offer of 750,000
6 p.c. £1 prefs. at the same time.
The new co. has acquired the
Australian business of Rootes,
Ltd. (England), for £514,733 in
cash and £1,250,000 in 10s.
ords. Net tangible assets ac-
quired total £1,764,733 on de-
preciated book-values, and
nothing has been paid for good-
will. Since the taking-over the
new co. has agreed to buy the
Fishermen's Bend (Melbourne)
factory (leasehold up till now)
from the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for £365,300.
The English company has
granted an exclusive licence to
the Australian co. for the
assembly and progressive manu-
facture of Humber, Hillman,
Sunbeam-Talbot and Sunbeam
cars and Commer and Karrier
trucks and commercial vehicles.
The agreement is for 25 years,
subject to conditions, and it in-
cludes distribution rights for
locally-assembled and wholly-
imported vehicles.
When the pref. issue is sub-
scribed Rootes (Australia), Ltd.,
will have a paid capital of
£2,400,000, £1,650,000 of it in
ords., the rest in 6 p.c. prefs.
After the payment of flota-
tion and other expenses it is
estimated that net tangible back-
ing will be £2 19s. Bd. for the
“I've heard of CUCKOOS being squatters — but ”
£1 prefs. and 9s. 6d. for the 10s.
ords. Average profits, allowing
for pref, div., over the six years
to July 31, 1953, was equal to
11 p.c. on ord. capital. There
was a setback to trade in 1952,
but profits appear to have re-
covered during the current year,
and represented 11.6 p.c. on ord.
capital during the five months
to December 31 last.
A cautious ord.-div. policy is
forecast. “Considerable funds
will be demanded by expansion
plans,” the prospectus says.
However, the co. will represent
one of the key motor-distributors
in Australia, controlling distri-
bution in every State.
“Basement”
“P. Mobile”: I heartily en-
dorse the objections by “Kero-
gen” (B. 24/3/’54) to the loose
use of the word “basement” in
“journalistic commentaries that
now accompany the local oil-
search,” although the meaning
will be clear to most petroleum-
geologists. Unfortunately, the
word has been misused in the
letterpress which is character-
istic of much of the recent spate
of oil-company prospectuses,
and it is not fair to criticise
newspaper use of the word in
comment or quotation.
On the other hand, I strongly
object to “Kerogen’s” statement
that basement “by modern defi-
nition is the name given to any
subsurface rock below which
the chances for commercial oil
are negligible.” Basement should
mean, and is better written,
“basal complex,” and this term
will include the ancient shield-
masses, rocks so strongly meta-
morphosed that they cannot pos-
sibly act as oil-reservoirs, and
strata so intruded by igneous
rocks that they offer np hbpe of
oil. Batholiths and old land-
scape-surfaces in predominantly
igneous country are also
included.
The loss of Bahrein to
British-Dutch interests is the
subject of a long story in which
most of the principal actors are
now dead. It was due, in the
main, to political and financial
factors rather than to geological
considerations. By contrast, the
reasons for the abandonment of
a large part of south Queensland
by Shell interests as a prospec-
tive commercial oilfield were
entirely geological, based on
the results of geological
and geophysical information,
obtained at surface and by slim-
hole and major drilling, and
carried out at a cost of over £1
million.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Mifnicipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIN 4
OSUIUVAX
r jw rmn *.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
F=n
p
$
V
S 0
n
H
1 *v
[Mb
o
a
“You can Bank
on the ‘Wales
"Of course, I had a cheque account with the
Bank of New South Wales -for many years
before I started in the manufacturing business
for myself, but it was only then that I realised
what a bank of that standing can do for the
small businessman. Their trade introduction
service has put men in a position to see bigger
things in the future than my present local
markets.” .
The complete services of Australia’s largest
trading bank are readily available to all
"Wales” customers. Call and see the Manager
of your local branch, he will
be pleased to explain how
the "Wales” can help you.
* I
Wf #
w
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCOBF
IN NBW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5331C
“BONNINGTON’S
BUNKHOUSE SHOW”!
i
mi
mm
mm
■
m
m
For laughs and songs in western style!
Each week some of Australia’s top-line entertainers, like George “Sassafras” Foster,
Keith “Speed Jordan” Walshe and Noel Judd—pictured above, right to left—join with
Lily Connors, Queenie Ashton, Leonard Thiele, Neil Williams and Gus Merzi to bring
you a half-hour of sparkling comedy and songs in western style in “Bonmngton s
Bunkhouse Show,” heard every Wednesday night at 7.30.
Presented with the good wishes of the makers of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4BY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
yke MACQUARIE
CASTING S EM I.C E
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Forestry Projects
Next to heavy taxes, nothing
has nettled N.Z.’s new forest
cos. more vthan Government
licensing under the misnamed
“Industrial Efficiency Act.” For
years N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
has been trying to shake itself
free from the octopus-grip, and
David Henry, chairman, said at
the co.’s annual meeting in Auck-
land at the end of February that
it was high time pulp-and-paper
manufacture was freed from the
tentacles.
“The Government should let
the cos. work out their own
objects,” said Henry. After
“protracted negotiations” for
release from control, the State
and the Bureau of Industry were
still clinging “tenaciously” to
their powers. It was all the
industry could do to find room
to develop. Seeing that the co.
had agreed with the Tasman Pulp
and Paper Co. on a division of
the market there was no rational
reason for licensing.
Henry continued: “We have
complete control of the N.Z.
market for, sulphate products in
any form, but we are working
step by step together (with
Tasman) to develop the overseas
market. On the home front there
is co-operation, with free'
exchange of information. We
stand firmly together to develop
insignis timber to our utmost
ability. It would not pay us to
fight, so we came together. We
cannot afford to be at logger-
heads. - Commonsense will
triumph.”
If the Government would
show the same understanding
and reasonableness, N.Z. Forest
Products would be spared a lot
of the effort needed to get ahead
Perhaps the light is dawning at
last, as the Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Jack Watts, said
a few days later that the Gov-
ernment had “under considera-
tion” delicensing of pulp and
paper enterprises. He coupled
this —unnecessarily it seemed—
with an ironic suggestion that
the shareholders of Forest
Products might like to go further
and agree to the lifting of
import-controls on the industry’s
main lines.
A Share-bonus Crop
Nothing so stimulating as this
year’s crop of fat share-bonuses
has been felt in N.Z.’s share-
market for many a* long day. At
first investors weren’t particu-
larly excited, but when the
handouts, mostly on a share-for-
share* basis, began to arrive at an
average rate of one a week, they
decided it was time to wake up
and do something about it.
Brokers and shareholders started
spying out the landscape in quest
of new prospects arid to study the
minds of directors of a score or
more of leading cos. in a good
cross-section of industry. Even
without any additions to the
bonuses already in the bag, this
is a record year for such wind-
falls, but now the snowball is
rolling in such fine style it's
hardly likely to stop. Before this,
few people took the trouble to
find out how many cos. were
sitting so comfortably.
Except for the two Auckland-
controlled insurance cos., which
long .ago put N.Z. on the map
in underwriting, and a small
group of lesser concerns, the
main body of well-run businesses
had been steadily building up
strength without attracting much
attention. Today it’s easy to find
three dozen with reserves at least
equal to capital, and some with a
whopping wad of surpluses. The
insurance leaders, of course,
tower head and shoulders above
others, the scrip always
commanding a fancy price,
related to its quality. Within
three years since South British
handed out share for share, it?
could do the same again, and
N.Z. Insurance has a pile, of
funds which dwarfs capital in a
proportion of five-to-one, Maori-
landers are wondering whether
the N-Z: will wait until its
centenary year, 1959, to do some-
thing about this.
Here is a list of the most
“comfortable” cos.;
Capital. Div., Reserves.
£ p.c. £
N.Z. Ins. .. 1,500.000 17} 7,868,916
S. British Ins. 2,063.280 18.3 7.761,715
Boss & Glend’g 950,000 10 1,271,351
Wright, Steph’n 500,160 15 1,044,549
N.Z. Breweries 1,635,379 8} 637,379
Dominion Brew. 700,000 13 585,190
National Insur. 350,000 14.2 1,221,050
Kempthorne,
Prosser ~ 900,000 10 654,260
National Elec. 118,270 25 358,141
James J. Niven 300,000 12} 425,555
N.Z. Refrig’ing 336,310 10 430,574
Southland F.M. 314,617 22} 405,076
Canterbury F.M. 150,000 9 330,989
Tau p o Totara
Timber .. 97,836 29 138,220
Bond’s Hosiery 100,000 15 240,717
Bruce Woollen 150,000 8 163,906
Lane, Walker,
Budkin .. 300,000 10 888.374
ManawatU Knit. 35,000 17} 98,268
Mosgiel Woollen 125,000 12} 204,651
Tattersfield Ltd. 55,000 15 165,046
Death & C 0... 189,320 12} 185,210
Chas. Begg & Co. 148,819 8* 170,441
Bycroft Ltd. .. 200,000 10 196,86.4
Coulls Somerville
Wilkie .. .. 171,623 7 430,408
Griffin & Sons 77,947 20 210,706
Hallenstein Bros. 335,000 5} 309,455
Hay’s, Ltd. .. 150,000 12* 145,600
Macky, Logan,
Caldwell .. 85,000 8 121,767
M. Manufac. 62,500 12} 86,053
N. Newspapers 497,916 10 817,991
Northern Roller •
Milling ~ 225,000 7} 212,817
Phillipps &
Impey .. 125,000 15 175,560
Sharland & Co. 124,500 10 122,571
Alex. Harvey.. 352,872 12} 312,962
Tip Top Ice
Cream .. 114,415 15 92,056
Winstone, Ltd. 447,860 10 532,311
J. Wattie Can. 200,000 8 258,290
Several of these cos.—Wright,
Stephenson, N.Z. Newspapers,
Phillipps and Impey and Wattie’s
Canneries —are only waiting for
shareholders to approve bonuses
before they double ordinary
capital, and Wright, Stephenson
plans, in addition, to issue new’
£1 ords. at a premium of five-
bob, also in a share-f6r-share
ratio. Other announcements
have been R. and W. Hellaby,
Ltd,, 250,000 free shares to make
capital £500.000; Winstone,
Ltd., 450,000 free £1 ords. to
make capital £900,000; and
National Insurance Co. of N.Z.,
an increase of 3s. to 10s. in the
paid-up value of the scrip.
All are more or less in a posi-
tion where capital long ceased to
be a fair indication of size and
importance. Six cos. in the
woollen industry could do some
impressive writing-up and still
show capital a good deal below
the real value of assets. Meat,
timber, engineering and brewery
cos. are others that are pros-
perous-looking, and the drug
trade, too, is doing well. Food
and textile concerns run almost
neck-and-neck, which is no more
than would be expected in a
country that has grown rich
through the fertility of its farm-
lands.
With shareholders’ funds
snowballing like this, along with
high divs., the impression has got
around that some successful cos.
have been profiteering, when the
key to their financial standing has
been a conservative div. record
and managerial skill. It’s the
inefficient and weaker concerns
that have been boosting prices
most. Still, whatever the pros
and cons of high divs. and fat
reserves, they’re provocative to
the Socialists, and directorates
seem to be realising this. It’s
hard to back up a case for de-
control of prices .with double-
figure divs. If 'capital bonuses
on the scale of the last few
months set the pattern, divs.
should be halved, or nearly
halved, profits should look more
reasonable, capital will be more
in line with assets, and shares
will be more within reach of
average investors.
Statistics of Industry
For years company expansion
in N.Z. has set a hot pace with-
out an overall picture of growth,
but the time has come when
finance and business want to
know not only that they are
going ahead but how fast. The
gap in statistical knowledge will
be repaired by an annual, survey
of more than a couple of hundred
cos., which the Reserve Bank has
just carried out for the first time.
A pile of 228 balance-sheets
analysed covers only a fifth of
the 1300 public cos. registered
and trading in N.Z., bu); accounts
for a much larger share of, total
assets, liabilities and profits. All
but a few of the main concerns,
apart from dairy co-op. cos., are
in the record, and altogether this
cross-section of business should
fill the bill nicely. The figures
are for years ending at various
dates in 1952 and early 1953,
which makes them near to the
mid-century year, and just after
the bursting of the post-war boom.
These cos. netted profits of
£6.1 million (after taxes), retained
£2.9 million for reserves and dis-
tributed £3.2 million. Rather
more than half of them were in
manufacturing; the others had
interests in construction, gas,
trading, transport and financing.
Easily the biggest manufacturing
group, as one would -expect in a
country where trees grow twice
as fast as in most other parts of
the world, was in “forestry and
wood.” Among the others —
again a logical result in view of
the predominantly rural character
of much of N.Z.’s prosperity —
the chief group was in stock-and-
station agency business.
Total paid capital of all the
cos. in the picture was £55.5
million, reserves and surpluses
were £31.9 million, and bank
o.d.’s (swelled by excess stocks
around this time) were £lB.B
million. Fixed assets (after de-
preciation) stood at £59.5 million,
and current assets at £79.2
million.
A fairly bald and uninforma-
tive set of figures without a
background to help them, but
still a useful and promising start.
Dairy co-ops stand in a class
apart, and are not excluded on
grounds of urban or rural
snobbishness, which have no
place in N.Z. business.


UNION TRUSTEE
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
protects and conserves YOUR ASSETS
For the security of your dependants, the manage
ment and protection of your assets is just as important
after your lifetime as it is now,V Administration of
Estates is a specialised duty that Union Trustee has
faithfully performed for over 67 years. It is significant
that an increasing number of people in all walks of
life are appointing the Company as Executor or Trustee.
The Union Trustee Company’s charges are exceedingly
moderate. They are, in fact, limited by law. And, of
course, continuity of service is assured at all times.
Call for a personal interview with one of the Company’s senior
officers, or, if you prefer, write for a copy of the free booklet —
'lmportant Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.” No
charge—no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST,, MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowopmba and Rockhampton
UT 13
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
r THE growing importance of the big life
-*• offices, of which the M.L.C. is one,
in the social and economic structure is
not as widely realised as it ought to be.
In these days of high cost-of-living, high
taxation (lightened a little a year ago)
and rising welfare standards, it has be-
come difficult for the individual to pro-
vide adequately—other than through life
assurance —for his own security on retire-
ment or for the security of his family
and dependants upon his death, especially
if it should be premature. Not only is a
contract with a sound life office designed
to meet these and a multiplicity of other
needs, but the savings effected meanwhile
through payment of premiums con-
tribute to the growth of real capital,
which means new assets and the em-
ployment to which they give rise. It is
up to the Government to see that the
savings of policyholders don’t run to
waste through inflation.
Over the last five years new business
written by the co. increased at an average
rate of about 13 p.c. in the ordinary and
some 3 p.c, in the industrial department.
Two important factors in this expansion
have been the growth of group assurance
in connection with industrial superannua-
tion and the life business associated with
the co.’s loans for home-building.
Latest accounts disclose continued pro-
gress, with trends everywhere in the riglit
direction, markedly so in some instances.
In the two life departments combined,
£49,352,018 (up £1,926,698) of new
business was written, of which
£37,915,607 (up £1,547,352), or 76.8 p.c.,
was ordinary and £11,436,411 (up
£379,346) industrial. Total income, less
taxes, was £16,091,683 (up £1,688,337).
Income in each department, and what
was done with it, is shown in the follow-
ing’ tables:
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.f Claims.* ponses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’51.. 0,249,309 2,864.334 1,265,126 14,615 * K nRA ~,
To staff fund. £40,557 .. T 6,064,677
’52.. 10,346,930 3,020,903 1,427,769 35,532 I K al-
- staff fund, £45,726 \ 5,817.000
From tax refunds, £578,830 .. ..1
’53.. 11,675,736 3,376,744 1,501,266 13,946 f 7,307,382
To staff fund, £55,228 ..... .. j
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec. Income, f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
.p £ £/£/£,
1951.-3,826,246 1.118,103 904,597 8,768 1 , eQ
To Staff fund, £17,320 .. .. J 77,458
1952.. 056.416 1,339,085 1,019,526 14,064 |
To general branch, £50,000 . . f 1,615,456
To staff fund. £18,285 .. ..J
From tax refunds, £177,964 .. |
1953.. 947 1,458,584 1,049,014 2,630 [ 1,962,260
To general branch, £lOO,OOO .. f
To staff fund, £21,423 .. ..J ,
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
t After deducting taxes.
Including tax refunds totalling £756,794,
following a High .Court decision, the
assurance funds benefited by £9,269,642,
raising them to £89,675,515. In addition
there were general reserves, also belong-
ing to policyholders, of £3,500,000, re-
turns from which help to swell interest
earnings, which are one of the chief
sources of bonuses to policyholders.
The surplus available for distribution
increased in each department:
Surplus.
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Ordinary .. 1,446,985 1,644,117 1,672,724 1,999,291
Industrial .. 224,748 252,560 286,780 351,435
Total ... 1,670,733 1,896,677 1,959,504 2,350,726
Of the surplus over 93 p.c. in each
branch was distributed in very satisfac-
tory bonuses at “substantially” increased
rates among policyholders. The surpluses
are the excess of assurance funds over
actuarial liabilities under policies calcu-
lated on a stringent 2\ p.c. basis in the
O.D. and 2 p.c. basis in the I.D.
The net effective rates of interest
earned on the assurance funds last term
were £3 19s. 4d. p.c. (up 9s. 2d. p.c.) O.D.
and £3 19s. lid. (up 7s. 6d.) ID. The
improvement was due partly to the cut
in tax rates in the last Budget and partly
to a book entry transferring £2,700,000
from the assurance funds to general re-
serves, both of which belong to share-
holders, as already stated. The pleasing
feature for policyholders is the widening
margin between actual and assumed
rates of earnings on the assurance funds. t
Heartening, too, is the trend of the
ratio of exes, to net premium income—
-16.20 p.c. (down 0.86 p.c.) in the O.D.
and 29.27 p.c. (down 1.28 p.c.) in the I.D.
And the mortality experience was far
below that allowed for.
In the general branch, which belongs
to shareholders, the operating surplus
was £118,176 (up £6609), and £86,905 was
received in tax refunds. The £1,000,000
of paid capital is backed by £1,136,871 of
free reserves. The div. was lifted from
20.8 p.c. to 21.6 p.c. Buyers recently
offered 91s. for the f.-p. £1 shares with-
out attracting sellers. The return at 91s.
would be 4.7 p.c. on a 21.6 p.c. div. basis.
Assets, known to be worth more than
their book-value, are in this form:
1952. p.c. 1963. p.c.
Govt. securitiest £49,038,582 55.1 £53,457,711 54.0
Mortgages, etc. ~ 26,409,375 29.7 29,176,076 29.4
Loans on policies 2,348.131 2.6 2,560,836 2.6
Cash, book debts,
etc 970,858 1.1 1,050,175 1.1
Property .. .. 986,842 1.1 1,203,701 1.2
Debentures, etc. 3,577,498 4.0 4,732,684 4.8
Shares .. .. 5,736,685 6.4 6,886,568 6.9
£89,067,971 £99,067.751
Liabilities* . . 2,320,226 2,767,113
Net assets .. £86,747,745 £96,300,638
f Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
The year’s net additions of £4,419,129
to Government securities, £2,766,701 to
mortgages and £2,305,069 to debenture-
and shareholdings also augur well for the
future of both interest earnings and
bonuses to policyholders.
• \
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch, Ltd.
'THIS old- and firmly-established dis-
-1 tributing business and its two wholly-
owned subsidiaries —D.G.M. Refrigera-
tion, Ltd., and Pastoral Accessories Pty.,
Ltd. —continue to give a good account of
themselves. From Sydney headquarters
and branches at Melbourne (Vic.), New-
castle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay
(N.S.W.), the group trades in “everything
in machinery for the man on the land.”
For over forty years the core of the
business has been the engines, shearing-
machines, separators, lighting-plants and
other products turned out by R. S. Lister
and Co. (Eng.), who in 1946 set up a
subsidiary manufacturing plant at
Sydney; but D.G. and M. remain sole
distributors for the products in N. S.
Wales. Other fines handled include com-
mercial refrigeration, Lanz and K.L.
tractors, fodder-conservation plant, disk-
ploughs and rotary-hoes, and a wide
range of farm and orchard irrigation
accessories. The latter includes a recently-
acquired agency, covering the three
eastern States, for a leading American
producer.
Only twice (1931 and 1932) in the last
26 years has the co. failed to earn a
profit. The ord. div. climbed from 3 p.c.
in 1935 to 15 p.c. for the two years to
1951, followed by 12£ p.c v for the next
two years. Stimulated by the mechanisa-
tion of farm and other properties, de-
mand, and therefore turnover, expanded
considerably since the war. Earnings and
dividends reached their peak in 1951,
when £32,250 of bonus-scrip was scat-
tered from a reserve created by revalua-
tion of properties, thus cushioning the
effects of the drop in the div. from 15
p.c. to 12j p.c.
The recession in net earnings over the
two years to the close of last accounts
was due mainly to the effects of floods,
drop in wool prices, rush of imports and
tightening of credit, with consequent
accumulation of stocks and increase in the
outside debt;
Parent Onlt.
v -Dividends N To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. < — Ord. serves, serves.
8 & 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’50..73,318 7,342 15 p.c. = 17,700 48,276 163,385
D.G. & M. and Subsidiaries.
Deducted on consolidation, £5599 . . 157,786
Revaluation of property, £33,000 .. 190,786
Reserves capitalised, £32,250 .. 158,536
’51..77,046 7,342 15 p.c. = 26,569 43,135 201,671
Unexplained addition, £1195 . . 202,866
’52..72,163 9,078 12$ p.c. = 23,160 39,925 242,791
Unexplained addition, £7411 .. 250,202
’53..60,836 9,842 12$ p.c. = 23,160 27,834 278,036
Last term’s £60,836 (down £11,327) of
profit was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£9842) and show 27.5 p.c. on ord.,capital
as against 34 p.c. and 39.3 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. It was written after
allowing £BBOO (up £1996) for deprecia-
tion and £33,560 (down £34,570) for taxa-
tion. On capital and reserves combined
the year’s profit was equal to 9.5 p.c. So
the £175,000 of pref. money, costing op
the average 5.7 p.c., and the £278,036 of
reserves contribute handsomely to the
pool for the ords.
The financial position improved:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1963.
Pref £125,000 £175,000 £175,0(10
Ord 185,281 185,281 185,281
Reserves ~ .. 201,671 242,791 278,036
Outside interests .. 7,095 7,052 6,966
Mortgages .. 90,285 88,357 85,000
Overdraft . . 350,388 175,199
Tax provision .. 82,483 87,691 72,801
Creditors .. ~ 320,609 228,719 208,551
Final div, .. 28,990 25,581 25,581
£1,197,867 £1,385,860 £1,212,415
Freeholds .. 99,489 99,519 105,598
Plant, etc. .. 64,334 74,033 79,480
Stocks .. .. 619,068 853,469 731,446
Debtors . . .. 408,859 357,176 294,224
Cash, etc 6,117 1,663 1,667
£1,197,867 £1,385,860 £1,212,415
Reductions of £122,023 in stocks (in at
cost or under) and of £62,952 in debtors’
balances enabled the overdraft to be cut
in halves, reducing it to £175,199, and
£15,168 to be snipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£460,205) was £23,833.
Though competition in some of the
co.’s fines is keener than it used to be,
turnover has progressively improved since
the close of accounts, and costs are
steadier, thus pointing to a better showing
at next balance. Still, the cautious board
might prefer to await further develop-
ments before it decides to lift the div.
At 40s. (425. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
ords. return 6.2 p.c. on a \l\ p.c. div.
basis. The first 8 p.c. and second 5 p.c.
prefs. at 265. and 16s. yield 6.1 p.c. and
6.2 p.c. respectively.- Net tangible cover
is £lB 11s'. 3d. firsts, £4 12s. 3d. seconds
and 445. • 1 Id. ords.
Capel Court Investment Co. (Melb.)
of the Capel Court group, spon-
sored by J, B. Were and Son, this 17-
year-old has been a regular but modest
dividend-payer from the start. Average
rates were approximately 3 p.c. for the
ten years to 1946, and 5,3 p.c, for the
seven years to the close of last accounts.
During the latter period distributions
climbed from 4i p.c. to 5* p.c., £47,737
was added to reserves, which are still com-
paratively slender, and* £230,000 of fresh
capital was gathered, making the total on
the share register £360,000.
The business is handled at low cost,
and net earnings, which come from a
widespread investment portfolio and
therefore reflect the condition of trade
and industry generally, receded in 1952
and picked up again last term:
To Re- Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. —, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1947 .. 8,922 ii 6,038 2,884 7,222
Net profit on sales, £312 .. •• 7,534
1948 .. 12,707 5 9,000 3.707 11,241
Net profit on sales, £741 .. 11,982
1949 .. 17,011 5 12,250 4,761 16,743
Net profit on sales, £6l .. • • 16,804
1950 .. 25,764 5J 16,275 9,489 26,293
Net loss on sales, £l4 .. •• 26,279
1951 .. 38,103 5i 19,800 13,303 39,582
Net profit on sales, £l7l .. 39,753
1952 ~ 25,144 5$ 19,800 5,344 45,097
Net profit on sales, £63 .. • • 45,160
1953 .. 27,494 5J 20,700 6,794 51,954
The £27,494 (up £2350) of profit was
equal to 7.6 p.c. on capital as against 7,
9.2, 8.3, 6.9 and 6.9 p.c. back to 1948.
The div. was gently jacked up from %
p.c. to 5i p.c.
Of the 328 securities in the co.’s port-
folio at December 31 last, 91 p.c. con-
sisted of ordinary and 8.5 p.c. preference
shares and 0.5 p.c. bonds and debentures.
During the year the co. obtained, by
allotment or purchase, 11,073 new shares,
2500 options and £l5OO of registered
notes in 22 cos., and received 1548 bonus-
shares on its holding in four cos.
• The amount of outside rhoney in the
business is moderate:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £360,000 £360,00Q £360,000
Reserves .. ..' 39,582 45,097 51,954
Overdraft .. .; 72,316 72,279 76,837
Creditors, etc. .. .. 3,176 1,741 6,463
Tax provision .. .. 5,446 4,808 4,468
Final div 19,800 19,800 20,700
£500,320 £503.725 £520,422
Investments .. .. 495,021 499,788 614,292
Debtors .. .. 4,488 2,513 6,355
Cash, etci .. • .. 811 1,424 775
£500,320 £508,725 £620,422
During’the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the market-value of
securities held increased by 13.3 p.c., and
exceeded their book-value, or cost, by
£40,684 at December 31 last.
Since the close - of accounts those on
the register have been offered 160,000 new
ss. shares at par, payable in full on appli-
cation April 8. The issue will lift paid
capital to £400,000, on which 5| p.c. will
call for £4494 less profit than was earned
last term.
The shares are essentially a holding pro-
position, offering comparatively good
security for income and capital, with
gradual appreciation of both as the long-
term targets. The major consideration is
that the co.’s investment policy should be
soundly based, and that the securities
held should offer reasonable opportuni-
ties for reaping whatever capital and
income gains may occur over a period of
years. Much, therefore, depends upon
whether those in control are good
“pickers.” An examination of the port-
folio, and the co.’s performances to date,
confirm these requirements.
After sales at 6s. cum rights, buyers
recently offered ss. for the old scrip ex
rights. The rights have sold at from 3d.
to Id. At, say, ss. 3d. the scrip would
give an immediate return of 5.5 p.c. on a
5| p.c, div. basis. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover (cost basis) is
ss. Bd.
Speedo Knitting Mills (Holdings)
TyrEWS of a one-for-two par issue of ss.
ords. by this 40-year-old Sydney swim-
wear and knitwear business didn’t affect
the price of th% shares; it was no
better than the market expected. The
last sale took place at 135., cum rights,
which gives the rights a theoretical value
of 55., allowing for the dividend differ-
ence. At ss. for the rights the total cost
would be 10s. a share, to yield a satis-
factory 7.5 p.c. on last year’s 15 p.c. div.
rate. Net assets cover, including the new
capital, is 6s. sd.
As well as the ord. issue, 11,736 £1
6 p.c. prefs. are being offered to pref-
holders at par, on the basis of about one
for three held. Thus paid capital will
become £210,000, including £50,000 in


DAVIDS & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ney*. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patent* and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are Improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
_
Providing profit-
able protection
tor policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
I*lBl
iibTi
Bllli
Ul)
mu
>*IB
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
{lnc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building. Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-D4rs PROTECTION TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
arra
alls
WORSTED SUITINGS. You are assured of the
finest cloth made in Australia, from pure Australian virgin
wool, when you see the famous Yarra Falls name or»
‘ ' worsted suitings.
The Hall Mark of Quality
YAR RA FALLS LT 0.. ABBOTSFORD, N.9s
m
VICTORIA
6 p.c, prefs. On that lot the
fixed pref. dividend and 15 p.c.
to the ords. would call for
£27,000, or £5902 less profit than
was claimed last term.
The organisation turns out
high-grade “Speedo” swimwear,
sportswear, underwear, etc., and
“Cooper’s Jockey” underwear,
all of which are nationally adver-
tised and are very popular.
There is a freehold mill at New-
town (Sydney) which is assisted
by branch factories at Newcastle
and Windsor (N. S. Wales).
In January, 1952, shortly after
the new holding co. was incor-
porated, the public came in with
£17,889 of pref. and £25,000 of
ord. capital, all at par. Here are
adjusted profits before tax, stated
at the time of the issue;
1947 .. £5,175 I 1950 ..£15,426
1948 . . 9,302 1951 . . 34,899
1949 . . 14,104 1
The average, after tax at 7s. in
the £, is £10,258. *
If the sticky conditions which
the textile trade experienced in
1952 and 1953 had any adverse
effect on this co.’s operations, it
didn’t show up in the order-book
.or the p. and 1. account:
Spebdo Knitting Mills and Subside.
, Dividends N
Pref. Re-*
Jne., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves.
’52..27,412 1250 10 p.c.f=10,550 31,013
’53..32,902 2296 15 „ ~15,825 45,794
* After deducting intangibles, now
£35,704. t Por six months.
Sales, and profits, notched a new
record in both years. Last term
gross profit was £20,768 higher,
but exes, (up £20,335) gobbled
most of the gain; the improve-
ment of £5490 in the net figure
was almost entirely due to lower
charges for depreciation (down
£1001) and tax (down £4056):
1952. 1953.
Gross profit , ..£131,115 £151,883
Exes. ... .. 77,593 97,928
Depreciation .. 4,760 3,759
Tax .. .. 21,350 17,294
Net profit .. 27,412 82,902
The £32,902 of profit covered the
pref. div., and 29 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 24.8 p.c. in
1952:
The co. manufactures only
against firm orders, and of the
heavy stock investment at June
30 last, over 50 p.c. represented
finished goods and work-in-
progress. The financial position,
therefore, is better than the first
glance suggests:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953.
Pref £38,264 £38,264
Ord. . . .. 105,496 105,496
Reserves ~ 31,013 45,794
Overdraft .. 58,078 62,632
Creditors* .. 129,306 120,961
Pinal div. .. 11,698 11,698
£373,855 £384,845
Freeholds .. 24,000 28,847
Plant, etc. .. 57,740 67,826
Stocks .. , . 249,971 ■ 228,938
Debtors .. 38,876 55,869
Cash. etc. .. 3,268 3,865
£873.855 £384,845
During the year the co. spent
£4347 on freeholds and £10,086
net on plant, which is reported
up-to-date and efficient. But out-
put is still below demand, and the
new capital will be used to extend
manufacturing capacity, as well
as to provide more working
capital.
Prospects are bright for a
better showing at next balance.
Sales to December, both in
quantity and value, were well
ahead of those for the same
period in 1952, and profit was
“very satisfactory,” the board
reports. The mills are fully
occupied, and will be working to
capacity on firm orders for the
rest of the term. Costs should
be more manageable, too, thanks
to pegging of the basic wage.
King Island Scheelite
'TECHNICALLY the co. is in
good shape and making
excellent progress. Its big open-
cut wolfram deposit is on King
Island, Bass Strait, where large
quantities of overburden have to
be removed in order to get at the
ore. Last term additional equip-
ment was put at work both in the
open-cut and the mill. The
removal of overburden stepped
up by 156 p.c., and 26.3 p.c.
more ore of fractionally higher-
grade was crushed for an extra
15,535 units of WO3.
Here are detailed figures for
the last two years: '
f Oct. 31
1952. 1953.
Overburden, etc., tons 317,451 812,220
Ore milled, tons (dry) 174,217 220,188
Head value, WO3 .. 0.49 p.e. 0.505 p.c.
Concentrates, tons .. 999.7 1278.9
Average grade, W 03.. 61.5 p.c. 60.3 p.c.
WO3 units produced.. 61,616 77,050
Profit .. .. £812,527 £684,448
Div.—
Rate .. .. 120 p.c. 100 p.c.
Amount .. .. £600,000 £500,000
The benefits of the bigger pro-
duction were more than offset
by a drop In price and rise in
cost per unit of WO3. Hence the
slip of £128,079 in net earnings
(£684,448), which were equal to
136.8 p.c, on the half-million of
paid capital compared with 162.5
p.c. and 177.5 p.c. for the two
preceding years. The profit was
written after allowing £lOO,OOO
(same as previous year) for de-
preciation, £224,000 (down
£64,759) for taxation, £28,939
<up £24,408) for development and
£74,865 for obsolete stores, etc.
The div. was lowered from
120 p.c. to 100 p.c., and might
be lowered a great deal further
in the future.
The drop in last term’s profit
would have been - substantially
greater but for the co.’s con-
tracts with the U.K. and U.S.
Governments, which run until
Feb., 1956, and Dec., 1957,
respectively, with undisclosed
floor prices. These floors were
said to be above the London
open-market average for WO3
for Jan., 1953, the Australian
equivalent of which was
£23 16s. 7d. The London open-
market figure has come down
with a rush since. In terms of
Australian currency it was
£ll 17s. 6d. for Dec., 1953,
£8 13s. sd. for Feb., 1954, and
£6 12s. 6d. on March 16 last.
The average price actually
received by the co. for the year
to Oct. 31 last was £26 7s. 6d.
(down £3 ss. 6d.), Excluding
allowances for depreciation, taxa-
tion and development, the aver-
age cost per unit of WO3 last
term was £11.48. On that basis,
and at the current open-market
price, the co.’s operations would
result in a heavy loss. Much
therefore depends upon what
happens before the contracts
already referred to run out. 1
Behind the drop in the open-
market price lies an easing of
commercial demand, especially
in the U.S., and accumulation of
stocks in Government hands.
At the moment it is difficult to
say when the market is likely to
pick-up again. Hopes are that
before the co.’s contracts ter-
minate surplus stocks will have*,
been disposed of, or greatly
reduced, and that both demand
and the open-market price will
have strengthened. Tungsten is
traditionally a “feast or famine”
commodity.
Ore reserves at Oct. 31 last
stood at 3,242,000 tons (up
950,400 tons) averaging 0.48 p.c.
WO3. Finances are comfortable.
Including stores (£299,699), there
were current assets totalling
£783,149 to meet current
liabilities of £553,607, including
provisions for taxation and final
div.
The strike, which held up
operations for several weeks
since the close of accounts, has
been settled, and full-scale pro-
duction began again on Feb. 8,
The market prices the f.-p. ss.
shares at 20s. 4d. (335. 6d. a
year ago), giving an immediate
return of 20.4 p.c. so long as the
100 p.c. distribution continues.
Since June 30 last Hill 50
(W.A.) has paid three divs. total-
ling 4s. per- Is. share. Another
Is. is to be sent out on April 21,
making ss. in all, or 500 p.c. on
the £150,000 of paid capital.
For the year to June 30 last the
co. netted £156,729 from treat-
ment of 72,673 tons of 7.62dwt.
ore, and paid two divs., together
equal to 43.7 p.c. on capital. For
the four weeks to Feb. 23, 1954,
throughput was at the rate of
95,000-odd tons p.a., and the
grade *l3.3dwt. The mine has got
bigger and richer as it has gone
down. The recent reopening of
the London gold market has no
direct significance for share-
holders in Australian gold-
producing cos. The aim behind
the move is to strengthen the
position of sterling as an inter-
national currency, especially in
the non - dollar bloc. The
market prices the co.’s f.-p. Is.
shares at 465., as against 41s. at
end Dec., 1953. Two other cos.
—Hill 50 Extended and Hill 50
Central —have taken up leases
adjoining Hill 50 in the hope
that they might meet with similar
luck; it is by no means certain
that they will,
* * * •
Western Australian Uranium,
N.L., which has just taken over
the joint' uranium interests of
Norseman Gold and Uranium
Mines on the Lake Dundas
(3932 acres) and Ravensthorp
(248 acres) fields, is offering
those on Norseman’s register at
April 15 750,000 10s. shares, one
for four, payable 2s. on applica-
tion May. 18, and the balance as
required. A similar parcel is
offered, three for four, on simi-
lar terms to shareholders in
Uranium Mines, N.L. The dif-
ference in the ratios is due to
differences in issued capital. A
further parcel of 25,000 of the
new co.’s 10s, shares are re-
served for subscription by the
mine staff at Norseman.
* * * *
“Eastern”: News of the
presence of uranium ores on the
Chillagoe (Q.) field takes me
back over the years. In 1912,
when I was an assayer employed
by the Chillagoe Railway Mines,
Ltd., we were looking for radio-
active minerals. Southern capital
was pouring into the field, and
getting nothing in return, due
largely to the low prices for
metals —lead was selling at £l2
and copper was considered high
at £6O a ton. Under the guid-
ance of A. T. Ullman, our chief
chemist (afterwards chief chemist
at the Newcastle steelworks),
and who at that time possessed
what was believed to be the only
scintillascope in Queensland, we
carried out tests on samples of
ores from all over the district.-
We had no geiger-counters in
those days, and were reduced to
searching for radiations with the
aid of a photographic plate in a
darkened room. Not one sample
gave us a ray of hope. That, of
course, is not to suggest that
uranium will not be found there.
In fact, the chances are favor-
able; it is a highly mineralised
area and. few fields can compare
with it in the diversity of its
mineral content. I write merely
to mention that 40 years ago the
search went on, and to suggest
that the best prospects are in the
southern part of the field, and to
wish our successors the best of
good fortune in their endeavors.


Women's Letters
SyiDNIET
The Society of Women Writers set itself
a good example of not running over the
time-limit when, under the expert guid-
ance of president Marie Marshall, its
inaugural luncheon for 1954 had for
speakers not only Dr. Roberto Regala,
and Mrs. Florence Taylor in reply, but
Madame Regala and Sir James Bissett
also, whose lively stories provided just the
little touch of lightness necessary after
Dr. Regala’s inspiring address on the
place of women in the world fight for
peace and freedom. There were about
40 people present, including half-a-dozen
men (to keep the guest-speaker in coun :
tenance?). Mr. and Mrs. Max Afford,
Miss Abbie Clancy, Miss Bertha Clarke,
the Countess de Vilme Hautmont,
Mrs. Lucy Cassidy, Miss Joyce Allen and
Mr. Roland Foster were among them.
☆ ☆ ☆
Florence Desmond, the English im-
personator, who is known to Australians
from her records, particularly the one
about the party where Tallulah Bank-
head meets Greta Garbo and others, was
in Sydney briefly during the week but
took off from here for Perth, where she
is to give some performances for J. C.
Williamson. Miss Desmond said that she
intended to retire after this tour, which
is really a holiday with her husband, who
is on business in Australia, but it is
hoped that it will be possible for 'her to
be heard professionally in Sydney later
in the year,
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Dick Allen, who is president of
the Black and White Ball committee for
1954, has Mrs. C. B. Wincott to speak up
for her &t meetings and to act as chair-
man and deputy-president. Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere was given “leave of absence”
while she is abroad with her husband
during the year, but at the inaugural
meeting she guided the proceedings from
the front row with a very helpful hand.
The ball is to be held on the Tuesday of
the spring race-meeting, the tickets are
to be £2 2s. each and the numbers
limited to 1250. The committee so far is
much smaller than that of last year, when
it numbered 96 —at the first meeting
there were about 26 members present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. R. R. Dowling, wife of Rear-
Admiral Dowling, who is the Flag Officer
Commanding the Australian Fleet, was
guest-of-honor at a reception given by
the Victoria League in N.S.W., when 120
guests gathered in the league’s rooms in
Margaret-street and were presented to
Mrs. Dowling and her daughter Jill. Mrs.
Dowling wore a dress of black-and-white
chicken-foot tweed with black collar and
accessories, and Jill wore a white hat
with her white nylon dress patterned in
grey. Guests welcomed by the deputy-
president, Mrs. H. H. McNall, included
Lady Fairfax, Lady Colin Sinclair, Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutchinson, Mrs. Allan Foott,
Mrs. Michael King, Mrs. R. T. Russell
and Mrs. Bertram Wright.
Two new charities to benefit from the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund this year
are the Methodist Blue Sister Move-
ment and St. Joseph’s Home for Chil-
dren, Croydon. At this year’s first meet-
ing of the committee it was decided
that the ball should be held on September
23, and that the first function of the year
should be the party which Mrs. Tom Wil-
liams will hold at her Bellevue Hill home
on April 17, Easter Saturday.
☆ * ☆
The Red Cross Ball, held during the
Royal visit and therefore much earlier
this year, is to benefit from the pleasant
evening arranged by the committee last
week. Beginning with a buffet-dinner at
the Rhinecastle cellars, it continued with
a preview of “The Glenn Miller Story”
and finished with supper at the offices
of Universal Pictures. Among those who
attended were Dr. and Mrs. C. M.
Guiney, Consul-General for Switzerland
Mr. H. Hedinger and Mrs. Hedinger,
Consul-General for Lebanon Mr. E.
Ghorra and Mrs. Ghorra, Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Morphy, Mrs. M. McDermott,
Mr. and Mrs. Cedric Symonds, Dr. and
Mrs. H. C. Coombs, and Mr. and Mrs,
R. Lay. So far the proceeds from the
Red Cross Ball have reached the £IBOO
mark.
ŵ
Robin Walters, the only daughter of
Air-Vice-Marshal Walters and Mrs.
Walters, is a member of Sydney's younger
set, and in the absence of her mother
aoted as hostess for her farther during the
Royal visit, Photo by Hugh Spencer.
ẅ
MELBOURNE
Opportunity Clubs president Eugene
Gorman, Q.C., revealed at the luncheon
at the club and .kindergarten at Rich-
mond that additions and alterations to,
and refurnishing of,* the club had cost
£IO,OOO. There is now a well-equipped
kindergarten downstairs, while upstairs
are a large craft-room, pottery-roOm and
library. In the library are large easy-
chairs of blonde maple upholstered in
leathers of varying shades : pink, lemon,
blue and green, and these are matched by
straight-backed chairs with’ the seats of
pastel leather-straps. Each wall is a dif-
ferent pastek shade, and the effect is one
of brightness and charm.
Mrs, Harold Holt opened the Fair in
the Lower Town Hall organised by the
combined committees which support the
Opportunity Clubs, and which we're
assisted by mothers of children who
attend the clubs and kindergartens in
various suburbs. Chairman of the com-
mittee was Mrs. Thomas Lambert. Con-
venors of the new- and secondhand-
clothing stall were two former journalists,
Beth Thwaites (Mrs. Ivor Mclnnes) and
Helen' Seager (Mrs. Harry Grover),
assisted by Mrs. E. Phillips. They quickly
netted £95. Mesdames Whelan and
Brewer had the produce stall; the reno-
vated-hat stall was convened by Mes-
dames A. Atkinson and E. Robinson;
Richmond kindergarten mothers ran the
sweets stall; refreshments were served
by Mesdames McEwan and Hawkins and
a group of helpers. General supervisor
was Mrs. Iris Clarke, who is doing an
excellent job as public-relations officer
and funds-organiser. Later in the year
the Wool Ball and the Black and White
Ball will be held for Opportunity Clubs’
funds.
Whe Pat, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
E. H. Whyte of Hawthorn, came with
her parenis from Queensland six years
ago, she joined-up with the Little Theaire
and has appeared in many of their pro-
ductions. Her next role is Lady Julia in
Oscar Wilde's "Lord Arthur Saville's
Crime.” Pat is private-secretary to the
manager of the French Bank. A
Raymond portrait.
w
worn with a small white hat; Mrs. Morri
son chose a pale-blue pleated-shantung
tailored frock and matching blue beret
Mrs. Young wore a white silk frock pat
terned in blue and red horses, with
wide-brimmed red hat.
Guests included members of the visitin
New Zealand and N.S.W. teams anc
local teams. The High Commissioner fo
N.Z., G. E. L. Alderton, and Mrs. Alder
ton were out to watch the matches, a
were Mrs. Robert Ashton and Mrs
R. McKay, of N.S.W, Elizabeth Latham
of Scone, was there; Mrs. Roy Douglas
wife of the N.Z. captain, sat with friends
Mrs. Tom Porter, of Adelaide, was hat
less and wore a printed teal-blue sill
jacket-suit; Lady Manifold’s white froci
was patterned in pink and blue anc
topped with a small pink hat. With Si
George Knox was Lady Knox; and Mr
and Mrs. Bill Winter-Irving were enjoy
ing the day’s play, as were Mrs. Rober
Gove and her husband.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ripporilea, the lovely home in Elstern
wick in which so many functions have
been held for various organisations, wa
the scene of a gay party when the owner
Mrs. T. G. Jones, entertained over 20(
friends. It was her birthday, and the
many beautiful baskets and bouquets of
flowers sent to her were used to decorate
the reception-rooms, dining-room and
ballroom. Guests wandered round the
gardens or sat by the swimming-pool anc
listened to the orchestra. Mrs. Jones
highlighted her bouffant black-lace gown
with a spray of red and pink loses which
cascaded across one shoulder down to the
waist. Her three daughters were present;
Mrs. Ivor Carolan, whose full-skirted
magnolia-satin frock had the bodice
sewn with pearls and turquoise beads;
Mrs. Paul Kaiser, wearing a short lime-
green satin frock which had a very ful
quilted skirt; and Mrs. Kevin Warne-
Smith, who wore with her white satin-
brocade gown a stole of apple-green
taffeta.
Wanda Shilliday wore a gold-striped
peacock-blue-and-burgundy-shot taffeta
frock; Mrs. John Cox’s lemon-tintec
organza was printed in brown, white anc
gold; Mrs. Derek Rumbold teamed
bouffant brown tulle skirt and a strap-
less fitted top of ice-blue satin; Mrs
Hedley Ladd’s choice was a black tulle
strapless gown which had a tiered skirt
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday wore a sheath gown
covered with midnight-blue sequins, Mrs
Geoff Christian a black French-crepe
gown trimmed with jet sequins; Mrs.
John Rumbold’s dove-grey satin frock
was topped with a, grey-lace bolero
trimmed with diamente, gold sequins and
amethyst beads; Lillian Wightman’s
brown Chantilly-lace frock was em-
broidered with bronze beads ; Mrs. A. E.
Hotchkiss wore a graceful gown of soft-
blue brocade, Mrs. Bernard Evans prim-
rose faille. , .
☆ ☆ ☆
Past pupils of Genazzano, Kew, are
invifed to join the debutante set at the
convent’s annual at-home on May 12
at the Royale Ballroom. President of
the Old Girls’ Association is Mrs. John
O’Donoghue, and she may be contacted
at 464 St. Kilda-road. All proceeds
from this function go to the school, and
there are six ticket-secretaries, among
them Mrs. Bruce Walker (WF9117),
Mary Moore (WY1669) and Betty Cahill
(FU5463). As there will be only 40
debutantes presented,, those wanting to
be included should contact Mrs.
O’Donoghue immediately.
* ☆ ☆
Many friends were entertained at a
buffet cocktail-party by Major and Mrs.
Jacques Chable, of Mt. Dandenong. This
party, held at Shipley House, home of
Mr. and Madame Cockerton, in South
Yarra, was given so that Major Chable
could say good-bye prior to his leaviflg
for Korea to join the Swiss Delegation
there. Madame Chable looked most
attractive in a slim black-crepe frock
topped with a rose-pink melusine platter-
hat, and Madame Cockerton chose a
gleaming black-sequin cap to wear with
her black French-crepe frock. Among
the guests were the Swiss Consul, M.
Paul-Emile Cattin, and Madame Cattin;
the wife of the French Consul, Madame
Shot, her black-nylon taffeta frock
worn with a winter-white hatter’s-plush
cloche ; Madame and Mile Gay; Mr.
and Mrs. John Knox; Mr. and Mrs.
Timothy Cousens, she wearing a grey-
and-black-patterned silk frock with a
black-velvet cap ; the Stanley Addisons,
of Kangaroo Grounds; Prof, and Mrs.
Maurice Belz, she wearing a smart black
frock and small white jewelled hat.
Madame L. de Castella was accom-
panied by her daughters, Madame M.
Etienne and Clotilde de Castella, and
son Gerald.


Divorce Notices
TO SIDNEY HENRY FOSBEARY.—TAKE
NOTICE that GWENDOLINE MURIEL
FOSBEARY has filed a Petition far
Divorce No. 3719 of 1953 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th June 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN H. SPICER & CO.,
Solicitors, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES WALTER BOWLING, late of
Fairfield. —TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAN
GERTRUDE BOWLING has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4669 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
7th day of June 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WILSON & THOMSON, Soli-
citors, of 165 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce. ,
TO JAMES LESLIE NIOHQLLS late of
Gosford. —TAKE NOTICE that SARINA
NIOHOLLS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4195 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of June
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. WILSON
& THOMSON, Solicitors, of 155 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHILLIP OWEN CARROLL late of
Stanmore. —TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
EDNA RITA CARROLL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3121 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
14th day of June 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Albert Herring”
“Albert Herring” Benjamin
Britten’s comic opera based on
a Maupassant story, was a new
work for Melbourne, sand-
wiched in between the hardy
annuals in the current opera
season of -the National Theatre
at the Princess.
Britten has shifted the loca-
tion to the small village of Lox-
ford, East Suffolk (Eng.), and
peopled it with the ancient and
autocratic Lady Billows, the
local vicar, the headmistress, the
mayor and the police-sergeant,
who discuss the rising tide of
immorality in the younger
generation.
It is proposed to select a May
Queen to represent the ideals of
Virtue, Chastity and Goodness,
but no suitable symbol of these
mighty abstractions of the
feminine gender can be found,
and, at the instance of the
policeman, it is decided to have
a May King. Albert, the son
of Mrs. Herring, the local
greengrocer, is the epitome of
virtue, and he is selected, duly
crowned, wins a prize of £25,
drinks a glass of lemonade into
which a tot of rum has been
introduced by his friends and
starts on a dramatic slide down
the slippery slope which leads
to perdition.
It is a funny enough story,
and Britten has decorated it
with a wavering line of engag-
ing music which shows very
clearly that when he wrote it he
\pas under the influence of
Mozart. There are none of
Mozart’s glorious melodies in
it, but it has the same gdy
charm and the same neat
capacity to give character to
the comic.
The last - named quality,
unfortunately, could not be
ascribed to Stefan Haag’s pro-
duction. With one exception,
all characters were hopelessly
overacted. Although there are,
admittedly, plenty of people in
the world as silly as Wilma
Whitney, Kathleen Goodall,
Barbara Wilson, Robert Allman,
Keith Neilson and Lorenzo
Nolan made the population of
the village, they seldom act that
way. The company would have
been far funnier if it hadn’t tried
to be so funny. With those
reservations, however, they
made a very pleasant evening,
and Joseph Post, with an
orchestra of Mozartian propor-
tions, dealt happily with the
music.
“His Excellency”
This rather Shavian fantasy
by Dorothy and Campbell
Christie, put on by John Sumner’s
Repertorians at Melbourne Uni-
versity’s Union Theatre, concerns
an ex-docker who has known
what it means to starve in a de-
pression, to be “locked-out,” to
be on strike and chased by
soldiers and policemen, and to
have worked up through the
hierarchy of the Labor move-
ment until his Government —
presumably Labor—sends him as
Governor and Commander-in-
Chief to the colonial dependency
of Salva, where the British
Admiralty is building a dock-
yard.
His experience has taught him
to identify himself with the
workers, and when a strike
occurs in the dockyard he can’t
help looking at it from the point
of view of the strikers. This
bewilders his secretary, delights
his butler, exasperates . Vice-
Admiral Sir Oliver Pain-Bartley,
and gives Major-General Cop-
land, G.O.C. Troops, Colonel
Dobrieda, Chief of Police, and
Prime Minister Zamario pains in
the stomach. *
They think force will solve the
problem, but, having had experi-
ence to the contrary, his Excel-
lency desires persuasion.
The issue finally narrows down
to whether or not the dock gates
shall be shut or left open so that
the strikers can hold a meeting.
His Excellency orders the gates
to be opened, and the strikers
hold .their meeting, which is
being captured by the extremists
when H.E. suddenly appears on
the platform, to be greeted by a
well-aimed brickbat. However,
he gets his message over in good
strong dockyard language and
returns to his palace, battered but
triumphant.
This is probably the dream pf
many a Labor politician, though
it never seems to have worked
out that way in practice. Never-
theless, the authors have written
an interesting story, and it was
admirably acted by Carmel
Dunn, Brian Wallace, Knox
Walker, Peter O’Shaughnessy,
Barry Humphreys and others.
As his Excellency, Stewart Ginn
made a compelling and some-
times touching figure. It was the
best to date of John Sumner’s
productions.
♦> ❖ ❖
Ballet in Melbourne
In the latest programme of
the Borovansky Ballet at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, the pace
was slow and the amount of
interest small until the final
item, when the tempo became
so terrific that “Coppelia” and
“The Eternal Lovers” seemed to
stand still.
The item was the Pelovtsian
dances from “Prince Igor.”
Borodin’s music screamed and
brayed while the corps de ballet
of warriors and slaves cavorted
at an ever-increasing speed and
the magnificent figure of Vassilie
Trunoff weaved itself amongst
them performing astounding
feats' of acrobatics around the
shrinking form of Anna Mariya,
the Persian slave whose sensu-
ousness is aroused by the wild
abandon of the warrior’s danc-
ing.
The ballet, which stirred
Paris to a frenzy at its first
performance, has been done be-
fore in Melbourne, but not with
such intensity and vigor. The
Polovtsian girl was appealingly
done by Christine Hubert, a
little Paris ballerina.
Compared to “Prince Igor,”
“The Eternal Lovers”. (music by
Tschaikovsky, choreography by
Paul Grinwis) was the geometry
of motion. It had even less
emotional quality than the
“Coppelia” ballet.
♦♦♦
“The Alchemist”
Canberra Rep! will be present-
ing Jonson’s “Alchemist” each
weekend until April 24. Ralph
Wilson’s production is meticulous
and the set by Marian Lazarus
and Victor Forstmann is strik-
ing, although it does not have
that satisfying unity which has
typified some of their other
creations.
On the opening night the cast
performed with energy and intel-
ligence ; at times with consider-
able distinction.
The piece is, of course, a
historical curio rather than a
great play. It tries to do too
much and to do it too particu-,
larly, yet it has many moments
of fun, and few of these were
missed,
Terry Juliff as Face and
George Ogilvie as Subtle were
completely in charge, with
Margaret Topham a satisfyingly
vulgar Dol Common. John
Cheyne might been a more
horrifying Ananias and John
Carver a more lushly epicurean
Mammon. Yet it was a produc-
tion of which all connected with
it might feel proud.
F. M. T.
Sydney’s “Prom.” Concerts
With the object of whippmg-
up more interest in the Art
Gallery, the National Gallery
Society has launched a series
of lunch-hour recitals at the
Gallery. By 1.10 p.m. one of
the main courts held an almost-
capacity audience including a
high proportion of young people.
An ensemble of 14 players
from the Gonservatorium played
“Serenade for String Orchestra,”
Op. 6, by the contemporary Czech
composer Joseph Suk. Suk is
generally regarded as a post-
Romantic, but the romantic
strain runs unmistakably through
every bar of this lyrical, attrac-
tive four-movement work.
Eugene Prokop, professor of
violin at* the Con., was in
command, and from the remote
point which was the best this
reviewer could manage he
appeared to be conducting with
•'
his unruly mop of hair. Anyway,
it got good results: the volume
and tone of the strings was quite
commendable.
There will be concerts at the
Gallery every Tuesday from
1.10 p.m. to 1.50 p.m.
Talkies
“The Back of Beyond”
Sighted at a private screening
in Sydney, “The Back of Be-
yond” is another of the Shell
Co.’s excellent documentaries,
this one an impressive film-
account of the 300-mile perisher
from Marree (S.A.) to Birdsville
(Q-).
Produced by John Heyer, the
film takes the mailman’s fort-
nightly run between the two-
places for its theme and deco-
rates it with shifting sand, whip-
ping dust-storms, dingo e.s,
snakes, skeletons, the Cooper in
flood, the aboriginal rainmaker
(who produced three inches of
the stuff and bogged the film-
unit), the prayers of the retired
guide and camelman, Bejah,
and ruins of Kopperamanna,
where, 50 years ago. Father
Vogelsang had 500 aborigines at
his mission.
Some incidental drama is also
contrived from radio-calls for
help to the Flying Doctor and
from the story of two children
who, after their mother col-
lapsed, set out for help and were
lost in the sea of sand.
A gdod deal of it, of course,
is Drysdale country, and one
might discern the influence of
that artist in much of the film,
particularly in the careful, stark
compositions of sand and bones
and hills. Possibly that influence
is responsible for a major omis-
sion from the film —in its accent
on heat and desolation and hard-
ship it overlooks the raison d’etre
for the mailman and a fort-
nightly service, .
The answer, of course, is be-
cause people live there, and that
they do so because it is possible
to make a living, sometimes a
very good one. That things grow
and that people can live and
breed cattle in what looks like a
waste of sand and stone are
much nearer the heart of the
story, and the drama, than the
record of the mailman punching
and sweating his way across the
desert once a fortnight.
■£♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“The Love Lottery”
There’s quite a good comedy
set-up in this current offering at
Sydney Lyceum. David Niven,
seeking surcease from idolatrous
film-fans, sees his longed-for
haven on the peaceful shores of
Lake Como, but the day after he
casts up there the head of a
gambling syndicate hooks him
and, almost before he knows it,
he owes the roulette-table an
astronomical sum. To square
the debt he allows himself to
become the prize in a World
Matrimonial Lottery.
The situations thereafter,
though never riotous, offer
reasonably - gooU amusement.
Niven is smooth enough, though
he tends to overdo the scared-
by-flapper sequences. Anne
Vernon, as the syndicate-
secretary who encompasses his
downfall and —so unjust is Love
—reaps the reward of her
perfidy, and Peggy Cummins, as
the teenager who holds the lucky
number, catty their roles with
some spirit.
♦>
“Little Boy Lost” ‘
The title, plus Bing Crosby, v
might presuppose a welter of
sentimentality outclassing “Go-
ing My Way,” but in this
thoughtful study of an American
father’s search in Paris for his
'Small lost son the director has
kept a fairly tight hand on that
rein.
In a straight role Bing acquits
himself quite well, and some of
the episodes wherein he tries to
awaken memories in the small
boy he hopes is his son are
delightful. He appears to feel
his limits, however, with deeper
emotions.
This is made more noticeable
by comparison with the fine work
of three French players; Claude
Dauphin, as the French friend
who helps in the search;
Georgette Anys, as a menial
who makes an impassioned
sociological outburst, and
Gabrielle Dorziat, as the
orphanage Mother Superior
whose warm humanity is hidden
behind a forbidding fayade. The
naturalness of the boy, Christian
Fourcade, however, is the out-
standing feature of the film. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
<£♦ *
“Street-corner”
The policewomen of London
is the theme of this J. Arthur
Rank film, and the variations
played on it are integrated witn
some skill and imagination.
Such things as the women police
deal with —neglected children,
shoplifting, delinquent girls, etc.
—go to make up a very human
story, and, for good measure,
there’s a major crime in the
solution of which the police-
women play their part.
The film owes most to its
clean, sharp character-studies;
a pawnbroker - fence, a
humorous, calm and philo-
sophical desk-sergeant, a serious-
minded policewoman with a gift
for inspiring trust, and several
slatterns. Rosamund John,
Anne Crawford, Peggy Cummins
and Terence Morgan are the
main players. At Sydney.
Capitol.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
Royal N.Z. Journey
The J. Arthur Rank organisa-
tion made this beautifully-
photographed historical record
in color of the progress of the
Queen and Duke of Edinburgh
through the Dominion from their
arrival in Auckland to their de-
parture for Australia.
The film gives some charm-
ingly informal shots of the Royal
couple as well as a compre-
hensive coverage of the Royal
occasions in-city and hamlet. It
is also an excellent celluloid
Cook’s tour of the country. At
Sydney Lyceum.
❖ ♦> *
“All the Brothers Were
Valiant”
Drama of two whaling-captain
brothers in the South Seas around
90 years ago. It has plenty of
fast-moving action, including
one remarkably-photographed
sequence of the harpooning of a
whale, its fight and its death-
throes.
Robert Taylor is the tight-
lipped skipper anxious to keep
the family name unsullied;
Stewart Granger the rascally,
reckless brother. They get
strong support from Kurt
Kaznar, Keenan Wynn and
James Whitmore as crew
members of varying degrees of
venality. Ann Blyth is prettily
insipid as the honest ,cap’n’s wife.
At Sydney Liberty.
* ♦♦♦ 1 *
“Second Chance”
Lurid melodrama, the climactic
scene being in an aerial cable-
car, disabled in mid-air over a
2000 ft gorge, two of its
passengers being a boxer and a
professional gun-killer, one to
win.
The camera-shots of the
Andean peaks are superb,, and
the tension in the cable-car as
the cables fray and snap is
handled well. The denouement
is chiir-gripping. Robert
Mitchum rouses himself from his
customary boredom and
somnolence to deal with Jack
Polance, surely the screen’s most
evil-looking baddie. At Sydney
Mayfair.


a deal with fathes
by Stcundly
(R.S.PORTEOUS)
CAPTAIN WELLSHOT
stepped from the taxi and
grudgingly paid the driver.
It wasn’t that he distrusted
the man —he’d watched every
click of the meter —simply that
he hated parting with money, for
any purpose.
And why not? he would have
asked. If he hadn’t watched
every penny all his life he
wouldn’t be the owner of the fine
ship lying alongside now. What
if she was only a small coastal
cargo-ship grossing a mere 2053
tons? She was rated A 1 at
Lloyd’s, she would be sailing
within the hour with a full cargo,
and she was all his. He owned
and commanded her.
He’d counted his change, and
was about to pick up his suitcase
when he caught sight of a slim,
hatless girl leaving the wharf.
Even if he’d failed to recognise
the smartly-tailored suit he
couldn’t mistake the trim young
figure with the crown of shining
gold hair. And that walk.
Carried herself just like her
mother. But hold on! What
the devil was his daughter doing
down here?
“Hey!” he bellowed, the
obvious answer dawning on him.
“Sally!”
She turned, waved gaily, blew
him a kiss and vanished through
the wharf gates.
Except where money was con-
cerned Captain Wellshot-was not
a hard master. He lived on easy
terms with *his officers and
encouraged conversation at the
saloon table. He had even gone
to the extent of inviting young
Carew, his second-mate, home to
dinner when they were in Sydney
several voyages back. The
invitation had been a gesture of
sympathy towards a keen young
officer without friends or rela-
tions in the Torakina’s home
port.
And what thanks had he got
for his kindness? The outcome
had been an affair between his
daughter and a jumped-mp young
second-mate who probably spent
every penny of his salary as soon
as he drew it.
Well, he’d clamped down on
that very smartly. “When we’re
in this port you can find some
other way to fill in your spare-
time,” he’d informed Bill Carew.
“But keep away from my house.
That’s an order, I’ve got nothing
against you personally, but I
don’t intend to let my daughter
get herself involved in an affair
with a seaman. Any seaman. Is
that clear?”
And being an ambitious young
officer Bill Carew simply said,
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Captain Wellshot felt reason-
ably certain now that he had
been defied. Why else had Sally
come down to the ship just before
sailing-time? Certainly not to
say goodbye to him; she’d
already done that at home. Yet
without making himself look
ridiculous he couldn’t ask his
second-mate what his daughter
was doing on the wharf, Carew
could easily pretend innocence,
and claim that it Was not for the
second-mate to question the
comings and goings of the
owner’s daughter.
Standing on the wharf, glaring
at his second-mate so uncon-
cernedly superintending the
singling-up of the stem lines.
Captain Wellshot failed to notice
what would have been apparent
to a casual observer. There was
a definite resemblance between
hirhself and young Carew. Both
were short, broad-shouldered
men and, though age had
thickened Captain Wellshot’s
waistline and let the once-square
shoulders droop a little, in his
youth he must have been very
like this agile, slim-hipped young
man. But more noticeable still
was the similarity of the lower
jaws determined, outthrust
jaws that made one wonder what
the outcome would be if these
two ever crossed swords. In the
present spt-up, of course, such
speculations were foolish. A
difference of opinion between the
master of a vessel and the second-
mate could only result in defeat
for the second.
“I’ll make you sit up and take
notice, young man,” Captain
Wellshot muttered as he walked
aboard. “Before this voyage is
over you won’t want to ’come
within a cable’s-length of any
member of the Wellshot family.”
TOURING the next three weeks
it was obvious to the
Torakina’s crew that the Old
Man had it in for the second-
mate. The only man who
appeared to notice nothing
unusual in the captain’s attitude
was the second himself. Always
cheerful, he accepted every unjust
rebuke and snub as part of the
day’s routine. As Mr. Jones, the
first-mate, remarked, Bill Carew
was proving a tiger for punish-
ment.
Jones —thin, grey-haired and
slightly stooped—was too easy-
going to offend anyone. Un-
doubtedly his peace-at-any-price
attitude was responsible for the
fact that he’d reached retiring
age without ever being offered a
command. To the men he was
always known as Pelican- Jones,
and certainly there was some-
thing very pelicanlike about his
profile, with its huge beak of a
nose and pendulous lower lip
that sagged even further and
trembled on the rare occasions
when he , allowed himself to
become agitated.
“Why is he making such a set
at you this voyage?” he asked
Bill Carew as he handed over
the watch one wet, blustering
evening. “He don’t ever let up.”
Bill, shrugged his broad
shoulders and said airily, “Maybe
he doesn’t like the cut of my
jib.”
“Blowed if I can see what he
could have against it.” Pelican
Jones was not noted for his sense
of humor. “Why, it’s the dead-
spit of his own. I thought you
must be some relation of his
when you first come aboard.”
“You must have second-sight,”
Bill said, and laughed at the
puzzled expression on his senior’s
face.
The mate caressed his huge
nose thoughtfully and moved
away.
“Thank the Lord I’m not
mixed up in it,” he muttered.
It was his watch below, and
he didn’t intend to spend one
extra minute on the cheerless,,
rain-swept bridge. Securely
wedged in his bunk he could
forget the wet blackness of the
night and let the officer of the
watch worry about the dis-
comfort and lack of visibility.
He wouldn’t be disturbed again
until four o’clock next morning,
and by that time the weather
might have cleared.
Jones was wrong on both
points. At eleven-thirty the
wireless-operator came up to the
bridge with a message. “A nasty
sort of a mix-up,” he informed
the second, handing him the slip
of paper. “Not far off by the
sound of his wireless,”
Bill Carew stepped into the
chart-room and switched on the
shaded light above the chart-
table. Tersely worded, the
message stated that the Dutch
ship Klumpang had been in
collision with the Lotus Creek
of Sydney. The Lotus Creek
was sinking by the head, and
though the Klumpang was stand-
ing by to take off her people she
was uncertain of the extent of
her own damage. The message
ended with the position of the
two ships and a request for any
vessel in the vicinity to stand by.
Picking up dividers and pencil
Bill made a few rapid calcula-
tions. “Tell him we expect to
be there by daybreak,” he told
Sparks. “Say about 5 a.m.” He
gave the helmsman a new course
and blew down the voicepipe
to the captain’s cabin.
Arriving bn the bridge with an
oilskin pulled on over his
pyjamas Captain Wellshot
listened impatiently to his
second-mate’s report. “Who
gave you permission to send
messages and alter course?” he
snapped,
“I thought it was the correct
and seamanlike thing to do, sir.”
No apology, no admission that
he might have done the wrong
thing. Just a plain statement of
his opinion.
"/ do the thinking aboard this
ship,” Captain Wellshot told him.
“The correct thing for a junior
officer to do is send for the
master at once. And when I want
your advice on what is or isn’t
seamanlike I’ll ask for it.” He
lumbered into the chart-room,
checked his second-mate’s calcu-
lations and then, unable to find
fault with them, called the
engine-room and asked for all
the speed they could give him.
“Rouse Mr. Jones,” he ordered.
“Tell him to have a boat made
ready for lowering. He can call
for volunteers to man her,”
“Aye, aye, sir. Who will be
going in charge of the boat?”
The second was undoubtedly
proving a tiger for punishment.
He must have known the ques-
tion would give his captain one
more chance to snub him.
It did. Captain Wellshot said
coldly, “If I decide it’s necessary
to send a boat away, Mr. Carew,
I’ll detail the officer who can
best be spared, to take charge
of her.”
In the concealing darkness Bill
Carew grinned. That bit about
the officer who could best be
spared didn’t fool him. If a
boat were sent away he’d be in
charge of it. And he’d be sent
because he was the best man for
the job. The third-mate Was too
inexperienced, and Jones hadn’t
the constitution to handle a
heavy steering oar for any length
of time in a sloppy sea.
AN hour before dawn the
Klumpang. wirelessed that
she had taken off all the Lotus
Creek’s people and was proceed-
ing direct to Sydney. She was,
not in need of assistance. The
abandoned Lotus Creek was
settling by the head and would
probably sink before dawn.
The Torakina acknowledged
the message but field her course,
“We’ve come this far out of our
way,’.’ Captain Wellshot told
Jones, “we might as well see the
last of her, if she’s still afloat.”
In the first grey streaks of
dawn they sighted her —a pitiful
crippled thing, so far down by
the head that the bigger seas
broke clean over her foredeck.
Captain Wellshot knew her well.
Only a few hours ago she had
been a fast modern cargo-ship
of 10,000 tons, thes latest addition
to the Creek line. Now she lay
with bowed head, wallowing
sluggishly as if she no longer had
the energy to rise to the seas,
content to let them wash over
her till they engulfed her com-
pletely. From a seaman’s point
of view she was nothing but a
menace to navigation until she
took the final plunge.
But was she? Captain Well-
shot scanned her carefully, con-
stantly checking the angle from
her depressed bow to her high-
cocked stern. He reduced the
Torakina to half-speed and
slowly circled the stricken ship
Since she’d stayed afloat so long
there was just a possibility . . .
“She doesn’t seem to be get-
ting any lower in the water, sir,”
Bill Carew volunteered, voicing
his captain’s thoughts.
Captain Wellshot ignored him,
and old Pelican Jones shook his
head sadly. The second, it
seemed, would never learn to
keep his mouth shut. In Mr.
Jones’s opinion the Old Man was
wasting valuable time. There
were no lives to be saved and the
ship herself was beyond help.
Even if she remained afloat what
, could the Torakina do with a
vessel five times her tonnage in
ordihary trim—probably nearly
double that deadweight now
with her for’ard holds flooded?
But Jones was wise enough to
keep his thoughts to himself.
“Mr. Carew.” Captain Well-
shot spoke at last, tossing the
name over his shoulder and
keeping his eyes fixed on the
Lotus Creek. “Do you think
you are capable of boarding that
ship without endangering the
lives of a boat’s crew?”
Taken by surprise, Bill said
“Certainly, sir. There isn’t a
really heavy sea running.”
“I didn’t ask for your opinion
on the sea,” Captain Wellshot
snapped. “I’m capable of judging
that for myself. The point I’m
making is that I don’t want a
boatload of men dragged down
if that ship takes a sudden plunge
to the bottom. Get aboard her
and tell them to lie off till you’re
ready to come back. Make a
thorough inspection and find out
what shape she’s in. The bosun
can take charge of the boat while
you’re aboard, but tell him to
keep well clear. I’ll drop you to
windward of her and then pick
you up in her lee —if she. lasts
that long,”
Mr. Jones watched the
manoeuvre in silence. It would
be wet and infernally uncom-
fortable in that boat, he knew.
but not dangerous for skilled
seamen. Even boarding the
derelict would be comparatively
easy for an active young man if
he watched his chance and
boarded her for'ard of the
bridge, where she was low in the
water.
But what then? To examine
that ship thoroughly the second
would have to go below. He'd
be groping around in semi-
darkness in the bowels of a
strange ship that might at any
minute plunge to the bottom.
And if that happened he wouldn’t
stand a chance. Never had old
Pelican Jones felt so nervous, so
undecided.
TTE watched the boat come up
under the derelict’s lee and
edge in abreast of her No. 2
hatch. As she lifted to the crest
of a surge the second stood up
and sprang. His hands grasped
the gunwale and he hauled him-
self aboard as the boat backed
away. The last glimpse Jones
had of his young shipmate was
his stocky figure running up the
ladder just in time to escape the
wave that swept across the deck
beneath him.
Because his big lower-lip was
trembling so much Jones had
difficulty in putting his feelings
into words. For the first time in
his life he was about to stand
up to authority and speak his
mind.
“It’s murder,” he stammered.
“Plain murder! You've had it
in for him all the voyage. If that
ship goes down with * him.
Captain Wellshot, you ought to
hang for it.”
Amazement showed in Captain
Wellshot’s face—amazement that
turned into something like
amusement as he said, “God
bless my soul, Mr. Jones! I
never thought you had it in you.
How ever did you work yourself
up to that?”
But the mate’s burst of courage
had evaporated, leaving him too
nervous to say another word.
For half an hour he stared
moodily at the Lotus
expecting each sluggish dip of
her bows to be the last. Less
than one-hundred yards to lee-
ward of Her the Torakina’s boat
swooped to the rise and fall of
the waves, her long oars
occasionally clawing at the water
like the legs of a large and some-
what ineffectual water-beetle.
But in spite of appearances there
was nothing ineffectual about the
bosun’s handling of the boat.
He kept her head-on to the seas,
he held her just far enough away
from the derelict to be clear of
danger if she went down, yet
close enough to obtain some
protection from her lee. And he
did all this with the minimum of
effort on the part of the rowers.
The oars dipped together, the
boat crawled slowly forward
and in spite of himself Jones -
said, “He’s safe! They’re mov-
ing in to take him off.”
Captain Wellshot didn’t bother
to answer. Having already seen
his second-mate drop a rope-
ladder over the side he was con-
cerned now only with the busi-
ness of getting the Torakina as
close to the boat as possible.
Apart from curt helm orders he
said nothing until the boat came
alongside and Bill Carew climbed
to the bridge.
“Well, Mr. Carew,” he said
then. “What’s the situation?”
“Numbers One and Two holds
appear to be completely flooded,’
Bill reported. “Aft of that she’s
not making a drop. She must be
very soundly constructed because
the after bulkhead of No. 2 isn’t
even showing signs of the strain.
In my opinion she’ll stay afloat
(i Continued on page 22}


Every day
in so many ways
Cyclone
serves
Australia • • I
54
s>£
2*r»*
“Cyclone” Screenwire on
doors and windows keeps
homes healthy, insect free
■
V*
S=9
4i
LV*
or
“Cyclone*’ Playground Equipment
keeps children safe and happy.
“Cyclone” Front Fences and
Gates add value and protection.
rr
rrTTTI
— H
’Cyclone” Wrought Iron Doors and
Balustrades lend beauty and
distinction.
I
I
«sJ
-X.
4
4-
felt
“Cyclone” Factory Partitions for
visibility, durability and protection.
The genuine “Cyclone” Field Gate
of famous “Red Tag” quality.
“Cyclone” Milking Bails
save labour, last a lifetime.
ŵ


indefinitely, especially if this sea
doesn’t get any worse.”
“It will get worse.” Captain
Wellshot shook an impatient fist
at the white-capped waves and
the drifting grey scud overhead.
“Damn it, man, don’t you ever
use your eyes? It’s getting worse
every minute,”
“I still think she’ll stay afloat.
She’s got enough buoyancy aft
to hold that deadweight for’ard.”
Bill sounded quietly confident,
and to prove his confidence ne
added, “If you’re thinking of
towing her, sir, I’d be quite
willing to stay aboard her.”
Once again Mr. Jones screwed
up his courage. Flapping his
hands in agitation he interjected,
“But that’s impossible. We
couldn’t move her against this
wind and sea. Couldn’t even
make steerage-way.”
“We’ll try it,” Captain Well-
shot announced, ignoring the
mate’s feeble protests. “You
can take three volunteers with
you, Mr.' Carew. Young, strong
men and good swimmers. If we
can get a heavy enough line
aboard before the weather gets
too bad I’ll tow her stern first.”
TpIVE hours of backbreaking
_ work for the men on both
ships saw the tow secured. Wind
and, sea had risen, and the little
Torakina was rearing, plunging
and wallowing as she took up
the strain of her tow. She might
as well have tried to move a stone
breakwater. The wind-pressure
on her high-cocked stern was
causing the Lotus Creek to lie
almost bow-on to the seas. In
that position she was most
vulnerable, for the seas crashing
over her partially submerged
fore-part must eventually break
her in halves.
Very gently Captain Wellshot
eased the Torakina around until
she was directly astern of her
tow. If he could start her mov-
ing if might be possible to swing
in a wide arc and gradually
bring her stern to the seas. He
actually had her swinging when
the Solway Creek hove in sight.
The Solway Creek and his tow
were sister-ships, the latest addi-
tions to the Creek line, and
Captain Wellshot was by no
means pleased to see the new-
comer. Captain Thompson, her
master, was a shrewd, capable
seaman who would immediately
see that the Torakina was
attempting a job far beyond her
powers. •
“If he starts looking for
trouble,” Captain Wellshot
informed Jones grimly, “he’ll get
more than he bargains for.”
He was hooked on to a really
nice lump of salvage money, and
he had no intention of letting it
go for anyone. The elements
might part him from his tow,
man—never.
But Captain Thompson was
not looking for trouble. He had,
arrived on the scene with a
definite purpose in view, and was
too much of a diplomat to start
sending signals which could
easily be misunderstood and
would almost certainly
antagonise Captain Wellshot.
Instead, despite the steadily
worsening sea he had a boat
lowered and made a personal
call.
“Good afternoon, Wellshot,”
he said, smiling pleasantly and
shaking the water from his cap.
“Nice boating weather, isn’t it?”
Even in his dripping oilskins he
looked more like a distinguished
grey-haired bank-manager than
a master mariner.
Captain Wellshot grunted non-
committally, wondering how long
it would take his visitor to come
to the point.
“You must have had a devil of
a job getting that line aboard
hei*.”
“No. The weather has got
considerably worse since I took
her in tow.” Captain Wellshot
deliberately stressed the last few
words.
“And we haven’t seen the
worst of it yet by means,”
the visitor suggests quietly.
“I’m afraid we’re in for a nasty
sort of a blow.”
“Oh, I don’t know. It’ll prob-
ably take up before morning,”
Captain Wellshot walked to the
wing of the bridge and glanced
aft at his tow. “She’s coming
around nicely, Mr. Jones,” he
said, assuming an air of hearty
satisfaction.
Very wisely Jones kept his
opinions to himself, and Captain
Thompson said, “I must say I
appreciate your effort, Wellshot.
If we get her into port I’ll see
that my owners reward you
suitably.”
“Thanks, Thompson, but when
7 get my tow into port I’ll be
quite prepared to accept what-
ever the salvage court awards
_ 99
me.
Captain Thompson’s attitude
changed abruptly. “Let’s not
waste any more time, Well-
shot,” he said. “I’m here on
behalf of the owners —to protect
their interests, so I’m asking you
to cast off your tow and let me
take over.”
“Nothing doing, Thompson.
You’re wasting your breath.
You know as well as I do that
the salvors who are first in
possession have a vested interest
and a right to exclusive
possession. That’s maritime
law.”
“Since you know so much
about maritime' law you’ll
remember that that particular
clause finishes up, ‘provided they
are capable of saving the pro-
perty.’ The port of Brisbane is
less than ninety miles away, but
with this wind apd sea against
you it might as well be nine-
thousand. You’ve got the main-
land to leeward, and while you’re
messing about you’ll have one
of our best ships on the beach, a
total wreck.”
“Who says so?”
“I do. In taking over this
tow I’m acting as the owner’s
representative. In other words,
Wellshot, I’m here to assert their
rights.”
“Their rights!” Captain Well-
shot’s jaw jutted even further
forward and his voice rose to
an angry roar. “Your blasted
owners forfeited all rights when
their crew abandoned the ship.
Legally she’s my salvage now,
and I’ll thank you to get to hell
off my ship before I lose my
temper.”
“Thank Heavens we know where We are!"
The visitor left. But as he
turned away he smiled and said,
“Famous last words, eh, Well-
shot? Well, perhaps you'd better
hear mine. I came here to
protect my owner’s interests and
that’s exactly what I intend to
do. I advise you to get your men
off the Lotus Creek, otherwise
you’ll only have yourself to
blame if anyone gets hurt.”
They watched him lower him-
self into the boat, watched the
rowers fend off and pull clear.
“Now what did he mean by
that?” old Jones asked plain-
tively, “Talking about asserting
rights and people getting hurt!
The man must be mad. He can’t
get away with that sort of thing
these days.”
“He can try,” Captain Well-
shot said grimly. “He’ll probably
hang around waiting for the tow-
“ Don't tell me you’ve forgotten me cat’s milk
again. Warder!”
line to part before he makes a
move. And if this infernal
weather gets any worse he won’t
have long to wait”
T)Y nightfall he had swung his
tow stern-on to wind and
sea, and, allowing for a very
considerable drift, was headed
in the general direction of Bris-
bane. The fact that he was
making no headway worried him
not at all. He knew, better than
anyone, that his ship was
incapable of towing the Lotus
Creek against this weather, and
for the present his only anxiety
was that his towline would carry
away before darkness gave him
a chance to elude the Solway
Creek. Throughout the after-
noon blinding rain-squalls had
frequently hidden her from view,
but the clearing of each squall
revealed her wallowing to the
grey seas, patiently waiting for
the inevitable.
“Like a damned vulture,”
Captain Wellshot growled.
Darkness. Wind-driven rain
that lashed down, stinging the
faces and hands of the men on
the Torakina’s bridge, blotting
out everything but the vague
shape of their tow. No passing
squall this, but storm-bred rain
that might continue for hours,
or ever! days. Captain Wellshot
wiped his streaming face and
chuckled. Nothing could have
suited his purpose better.
“Have a hand stationed aft
to watch the towline, Mr. Jones,”
he ordered. “Give him your
whistle and tell him to blow like
hell if it carries away. When
you’ve done that, go below and
darken ship. Tell all hands I
don’t want a single light to
show.” He switched off the
navigation lights and said to the
helmsman, “Starb’d a little. Ease
her round gently and steady her
on nor’-west.”
Pelican Jones was a firm
believer in the old seamen’s rule,
“Obey orders if you break
owners.” Though strongly dis-
approving of the order to darken
ship he carried it out faithfully
and returned to the bridge. The
helmsman had the Torakina
steadied on her new course, but
Jones had no need to look at
the compass to know that they
were now running before the
storm.
Groping his way to his
captain’s side he asked nervously,
“How long do you intend hold-
ing this course, sir?”
“How long? Use your
imagination, Jones. We’d never
make headway against this sea,
I’m heading for the Breaksea
Spit Light Vessel. If we can
hang to our tow till we round
Breaksea Spit I’ll lie up in Hervey
Bay till the weather takes up.”
Pelican Jones gasped. For the
moment he was incapable of
saying anything. Breaksea Spit!
Nearly 100 storm-tossed miles
away! And all the time a fol-
lowing sea would be pounding
over the half-submerged forepart
of their tow!
“She’ll break in half in two
hours on this course,” he pre-
dicted, finding his voice at last.
“It’s a risk we’ve got to take
if we want to give Thompson the
slip. And after all, Jones, half a
ship is better than no ship.” As
if he agreed with the logic of
that statement Jones remained
silent. Ten minutes later he
delivered the longest speech *
Captain Wellshot had ever heard
him make.
“Captain,” he said. “I’ve been
a seaman all my life. I know my
duty, and I’ve always carried it
out to the best of my ability in
a seamanlike manner. I’ll con-
tinue to do it, under protest,
until this voyage ends, when I’ll
ask you to pay me off. I always
knew you were a hard man where
money was concerned, but I
never expected to see you throw-
ing away men’s lives for the sake
of financial gain. You talk
about having to take the risk
of that ship breaking up, but it’s
the four men aboard her who’ll
pay for the risk—with their lives.
All you’ll lose will be a few
fathoms of towline,”
"And a nice packet of salvage
money,” Captain Wellshot
reminded him. “Don’t forget
that if I get this ship into port
your share will be a nice help to
you in your retirement. The
court will award you that, though
God knows you’ve done nothing
to earn it except squeal about
impossibilities and murderers.”
For the rest of his watch Jones
stared intently through the blind-
ing rain. While the Old Man
persisted in this dangerous ruse
of running without lights only a
sharp lookout and prompt helm
orders could avert a collision
should a southbound ship loom
out of the murk ahead.
Dangerous! It was stark mad-
ness. Pitching and rolling
violently in the seaway, ham-
pered by her heavy tow, the little
Torakina would take a devil of
a time to answer her helm.
/CONDITIONS aboard the
Lotus Creek were less
violent, firstly because she was a
much bigger ship and secondly
because the weight of water in
her for’ard holds was making her
sluggish. But to offset the lack
of physical discomfort the men
aboard her had to listen to the
roar of seas swirling over her
foredeck, the booming thuds as
bigger waves burst against the
superstructure and the incessant
groaning of the laboring ship.
“Why don’t he hold our stern
to the seas?” one of,the seamen
asked. “Any fool can tell she
won’t last long on this course.
You’d think he was tryin’ to
drown us.”
He wasn’t a nervous type, nor
did he suffer from a too-vivid
imagination. He’d volunteered
for this job and he felt justified
in voicing his opinion.
“He’s doing the only thing, he
can do,” Bill Carew explained.
“He’s running for Hervey Bay
until the weather takes up.”
Because it was the type of
thing he himself would have
attempted had he been Ih
command Bill had guessed his
captain’s intentions as soon
both ships swung northward in
the darkness. He did not approve
of running without light in foul
weather, but there was nothing
he could do about it. The Lotus
Creek’s emergency lamps were
Somewhere in her flooded fore-
part, as inaccessible as if they
had been at the bottom of the
ocean.
Actually there was very little
he could do about anything
beyond keeping a hand stationed
aft to watch the towline while
he made frequent inspections
with the aid of a rather feeble
torch. If the ship showed signs
of breaking-up it would be his
duty to get his men away safely.
And as the night dragged on he
began to realise that any attempt
to abandon ship might easily end
in disaster. The weather was
steadily worsening, and with the
Lotus Creek offering no pro-
tective lee the boat would prob-
ably be swamped as soon as it
hit the water.
When the towline parted
shortly before dawn Bill was only
surprised that it had held so long.
What now? he wondered. The
Torakina would undoubtedly be
standing-by, invisible in the dark-
ness, but there was nothing she
could do beyond trying to pick
them up if they had to swim for
it. It would be impossible to
pass another towline until the
weather moderated, and by that
time it might easily be too late.
A PALE dawn struggled
through the clouds and rain
to reveal the battered Lotus
Creek, grey seas bursting over
her, grey clouds overhead, and
all around her, hemming her in,
a grey curtain of rain. Of the
Torakina there was no sign. She
might have been hove-to within
two-hundred yards of her tow —
or searching vainly ten miles
away. Once having lost touch it
would be sheer luck if she made
contact again.
“We’ll rustle up some break-
fast,” Bill announced, sensing the
despondency of his crew. He,
too, was feeling tired and de-
pressed, but he carefully hid his
feelings.
With no fire in the galley,
breakfast was a cheerless meal,
rendered even more gloomy by
one of the seamen pointing out
the hopelessness of their
situation.
“Let’s leave the bitch before
she sinks under us,” he pleaded.
And though his two shipmates
supported him Bill scoffed at the
idea.
“We’re safer here than we
could be trying to get the boat
away,” he said. “She’s not get-
ting any lower in the water and
ships in worse shape than this


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
™ P YRIL MORVEN EHRLICH, late of
ll NOtth Queensland. —T AK E
iF, HEE ISABEL PEARL
Ras a Petition for Divorce
No. 2834 of 1953 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 7th June 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. J. P. HALL & HALL,
nmicmv 44 ,.Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
™ ROZALJEYAS. late of
Tw ‘S t * h «? t . reet ’ Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAR!A ELISABETH ROZALJBVAS
f Hco a Petition for Divorce No. 2010
of 1953 on the ground of habitual
and cruelty for three years
u^Y ar^9 ** you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Supreme Court King Street Syd-
P J? y done 1954 and obtain a copy
a t 6 t> r^J 0n without charge from
Jr: Pi HALL & .HALL, Solicitors, 44
Registra/ 1300 ' Sydney — J - DOUGHAN,
w
ŵ
ẁ
*
m
i
«
Cl 3
More people,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on
any other tyre
When you consider that thi;
fact has held true for thirty-
nine years doesn’t it stand
to reason that the tyre that
gives ’the greatest satisfaction
to the most people is the tyre
for you to buy?
ẃ
made port during the war. We’re
drifting in towards Hervey Bay.
By midday we should be in sight
of the Breaksea Spit Lightship.”
He managed to sound confident
though he could only guess
vaguely at their position.
“How do we know she won’t
pile up on the Spit?”
It was a shrewd, unanswerable
question, but Bill said, “Well
start forcing her to the nor’ard
now. We’ll get some sail on her,
aft.”
Working sometimes waist-deep
in swirling water they salvaged
tarpaulins washed from the
for’ard hatches. They dug out
spares and even stripped some
from the after hatches. Secured
in the after rigging and sheeted
home to catch the wind they
made a brave showing of canvas
when viewed from the deck. The
spirits of the seamen rose as each
square was set.
“That’ll lift her along,” they
told each other cheerfully.
But Bill had no such illusions.
A dozen pocket handkerchiefs
would probably have had as
much effect on the drift of the
ship. His only concern was to
keep the men occupied, to spar
for time in the hope that the
weather would moderate and
allow the Torakina to pick them
up and tow them to safety. Much
better for the men to work in
the pouring rain than to huddle
in the shelter of the bridge specu-
lating morbidly on their fate.
'THEY were still working when
A the Torakina loomed up
through the rain. She came from
downwind, rearing, reeling and
plunging, deluging herself in
spray as she worked up abreast
of her charge. Compared with
the sluggish rise and fall of the
Lotus Creek her antics resembled
a skittish filly gambolling along-
side a ponderous old elephant.
From her wildly swaying bridge'
an aldis lamp blinked feverishly.
“Ain’t she chuckin’ herself
about? Makes a man seasick to
watch her,” one of the men said.
“What’s she sayin’. Second?”
“She says she’ll pass another
line as soon as the weather eases
a bit,” Bill lied.
He was the only one who could
read the message, and he wasn’t
going to tell the others that the
Torakina was advising them to
abandon ship immediately.
Instead he scrambled to the
bridge and displayed the negative
flag. He’d come this far with
the Lotus Creek and he didn t
intend to abandon her now.
While she stayed afloat there was
always a hope of saving her.
Half an hour later he acknow-
ledged a message -telling him he
was drifting on to Breaksea Spit,
but still he made no move to
abandon ship. Time enough to
leave her when he had seen with
his own eyes that the end was
inevitable, he decided.
But when he did sight the Spit
it was too late to leave. The
shoaling water produced a con-
fused and broken sea that made
the launching of a boat absolutely
impossible. It would have been
suicidal to attempt it. Nor was
there any question of swimming
to the Torakina now. Very
sensibly she had stood out to sea
and vanished in the rain.
In a wet, dispirited group, each
nervously fingering his life-
jacket, the four men clustered
on the poop. Dimly through the
rain they could see the tree-clad
tip of Fraser Island, and, stretch-
ing northward from it, line after
line of combers bursting in a
welter of dirty yellow foam
across the submerged sandspit.
Their approach to it “was slow,
painfully slow for men aware that
there was no escape How, They
could pick out the exact spot
where their ship would strike-
close to the tip of the island
where the sea was most turbulent.
No line of breakers there, but a
mad, crisscross jumble of waves
that swirled, twisted, collided and
toppled in crazy confusion.
“What a spot to pick,” the
youngest seaman moaned. “A
man couldn’t swim two yards in
that.”
No one bothered to answer.
The statement was so obviously
true. . There was deeper water
under that confusion. Bill
guessed. One of the many
channels scoured through the
sandspit. Possibly, being close
to the island, it was the deepest
channel of all, but the chances of
it being deep enough to float the
Lotus Creek, even though it was
nearly high water, were too
remote to consider. Nothing
could be gained by holding out
false hopes now.
Nor was Bill in the mood for
holding any out. The realisation
that he’d failed in his first really
responsible job made him feel
even more depressed than his
men. Right from the start he'd
known that, as leader of a band
of volunteers, it was his duty to
safeguard their lives. And he’d
failed. It was left for one of his
men to point out that their one
chance of survival lay in the
possibility that their ship would
not break up before the weather
moderated.
In miserable silence they
watched her drift slowly into the
turmoil. They clung grimly to
the rail, shuddering as they felt
the first heavy jar of the ship
striking bottom. Time after time
she struck, lifting sluggishly and
settling down again, each time
with a thud that made her whole
frame vibrate. Even the heavy
booming of surf along the Spit
could not drown the shriek of
tortured metal in her damaged
forepart.
It was Bill who first noticed
that she had not actually come
to a stop, and that the impact of
her thuds was becoming less
violent. “She’s dragging herself
over!” he yelled. “If she keeps
this up we’ll be in calm water
soon,”
“If she drags out of this with-
out pounding herself to pieces,”
the others said, “we can take
to the boat and let her sink.”
■Half an hour later they were
lowering the boat in the com-
paratively calm waters of
Hervey Bay. The thunderous
booming of surf on the Spit was
now music to their ears for
instead of being their destroyer
the. Spit was now safeguarding
their lives by giving them a pro-
tective lee. Their ship was afloat
and outwardly she appeared little
the worse for her pounding,
“She’ll stay aflbat,” Bill
announced. “Pay the boat out
on a line astern and we’ll get the
canvas off her. If we can steady
her drift the , Torakina should
show up in time to tow us to a
safe anchorage.”
YY/HILE they were still hauling
the canvas down the
Torakina hove in sight. She was
flying the signal “Prepare to be
taken in tow,” and as she came
to a stop she lowered a boat.
“Get a light messenger-line
ready,” Bill ordered. “But don’t
pass it down to them till I give
the word. It looks as though
we’re going to be honored by a
visit from Captain Wellshot
himself.”
“I’m coming aboard,” Captain
Wellshot bellowed as his boat
came within hail. “What shape
are you in?” he asked as he
clambered over the rail. “Did
you take much damage on the
Spit?”
“I don’t think so,” Bill
answered.
“You’re lucky, damned lucky
you weren’t all drowned. Why
the devil didn’t you leave her
when I signalled you to? Can’t
you even read plain Morse?
Come on, man, don’t just stand
there saying nothing. Do some-
thing. Get those men of yours
started on sending a line down
while I take a look around.”
Very quietly Bill said, “I think
you’d better calm down and
listen to what I’ve got to say,
Captain. I am not in- any urgent
need of a tow and I am not
passing any line to your ship.”
“You’re what?” Captain
Wellshbt was obviously doubt-
ing his own ears.
“You heard what I said,
Captain,. This is my ship now,
and I’m giving the orders aboard
her. You left us in the lurch last
night and we stayed aboard and
saved the ship. We sailed her
through that passage in the Spit.
When you did show up this
morning your sole contribution
was to advise us to abandon her.
Then, when you thought we were
going aground, you cleared out
and left us to drown.”
“You, you infernal young up-
start! I did my best to save
you right up to the last. You
don’t think I’d risk having my
ship driven aground on the Spit,
do you? I had to take her right
round outside the Lightship in
an effort to get here in time to
save your miserable neck. And
don’t try to tell me you saved
this ship by hanging those few
rags in her rigging. The tail of
my shirt would have been as
much help.”
“We’ll see what the salvage
court has to say about that. My
claim will be that I tried and I
succeeded. That should be
proof enough. Now I’m in the
position where I can get an
anchor down and make a deal
with a tug or any other ship that
comes along. Naturally I’ll
accept the most reasonable
offer.”
“You haven’t a legal leg to
stand on. You’re a member of
my crew, put aboard this ship
under my command. Why, I
could” . . • Suddenly Captain
Wellshot broke off and strode
away. When he returned he had
calmed down sufficiently to ask
in a normal voice, “What exactly
do you want, Carew?”
“Nothing unreasonable,” Bill
assured him. “I’ll naturally press
my claim • that 'my efforts
materially helped to save the ship.
And in addition to what the court
awards me I only want you to
give Sally and me your blessing,
We’re planning to get married
when I return to Sydney.” He
grinned cheerfully. “Under the
circumstances, sir, I think it
would be a fitting gesture on your
part if you gave us a wedding
cheque for one-hundred pounds
—out of your share of the
salvage. But I won’t press that
point; it’s merely a suggestion.”
amazement Captain
Wellshot’s expression
changed to one of grudging
admiration. He was being
bluffed and he knew it. He didn’t
greatly admire what he regarded
as Bill’s foolhardiness in refus-
ing to abandon the ship, but he
did admire a man who could
outwit him in a financial deal,
What a man to have in the
family! What an asset to the
business! Whilst he didn’t want
Sally to marry a seaman he felt
she could do a lot worse than
marry one who knew how to
drive a hard bargain.
“It’s a deal, young fellow,” he
said, extending his hand. “Now
get that infernal line aboard
before we drift ashore.”


Control of Emotion
Three Years with
MENZIES
By STEWART COCKBURN
<< K A R. R. G. MENZIES,”
Iy I said a cynic, “will be
I \ remembered as the
greatest orator never
to draw a tear!”
And it is quite true that in all
his public speaking—he himself
hates it to be called “oratory”—
the influence,, Menzies exerts is
seldom through the medium of
communicated emotion. Rather
is it the impression he makes on
his hearers’ minds and intel-
ligence.
The governing-director of the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” Mr.
Warwick Fairfax, one . of
Menzies’s most virulent critics,
summed-up scepticism on this
point in a trenchant profile
entitled: “The Bewildering Mr.
Menzies” (“5.M.H.,” August 17,
1943):
How, exactly, is Mr. Menzies bril-
liant? Firstly, in his mastery of that
English language which stands un-
rivalled, except by ancient Greek, as
a perfect and flexible expression of
human thought and feeling. In recent
Australian history, he, almost alone,
reminds one of the golden age of
English politics, when a great states-
man Was almost always an orator.
Why then does he not move the
nation? The answer is that occasion-
ally he can and does. When he for-
gets political manoeuvring, when he
drops the self-conscious backcloth of
the interests and the personality of
Mr. Menzies, and the supreme ques-
tion whether they will get adequate
recognition, when he speaks from the
bottom of his heart of something
that has impressed and moved him, he
does move the nation. He moved it
on his return from England, as he had
moved his hearers in Britain and
America, and as maybe he could move
them again.
That this should be so —that
he should not often move his
hearers —is to a very large extent
due to Menzies’s own self-
control. Research into his life-
history discloses plenty of
evidence to support What is,
after all, this almost obvious
explanation.
A great speaker is a great
actor. That does not mean to
say that he is not sincere. In
fact, if he is not sincere his
message will seldom leave any
Worth-while impression on his
hearers. Yet a great public
speaker requires a mastery of
technique as complete as that of
a free, an Irving or an Olivier.
Menzies possesses such a com-
mand, and it is not to be
seriously thought that if he
wished to do so he could not
jerk tears from his audiences at
will.
But from his earliest youth
Menzies has harbored a mistrust
of expressed emotion. It was,
in the first place, a reaction
against what he observed in his
father, the late James Menzies,
an emotional man, and an
emotional- and excitable
speaker. He was always
prominent in local affairs at
Jeparit, the little town in the
Victorian .Wimmera where R. G.
Menzies was born, and he sub-
sequently became a member of
the Victorian Parliament.
James Menzies was able, as a
public speaker, to stir people
literally to the point of tears.
But when young Robert went
along to some of his meetings
his father’s emotionalism used to
make him self-conscious, and
thus there developed in him a
horror, now quite instinctive,, of
“letting himself go” in any sort
of revivalist fashion on the public
platform.
Those close to Menzies seldom
find in his speeches, particularly
his radio speeches, that coldness
of style of which he has been
so often accused. But the
criticism is heard so frequently,
and from people who are plainly
sincere and objective in their
opinibn, that it must certainly
be taken seriously.
The irony of it is that Menzies
is by no means unlike his father.
His internal emotions when
speaking in public are frequently
intense, and his efforts £t self-
control tremendous. Occasionally
his self-control fails. When that
happens, he suffers not a little
for having “worn his heart on
his sleeve,”
A comparatively recent
occasion on which, however,
Menzies did abandon much of
his usual self-control was at a
political meeting at the Rivoli
Hall, Hurstville, Sydney, in
February, 1953, when he was
speaking in support of a candi-
date at the N. S. Wales State
elections.
One of the Labor 'party’s prin-
cipal prongs of attack in this
campaign was the alleged
injustice of the Commonwealth
Government’s attitude to N. S.
Wales demands for millions of
pounds more money for public
works. Menzies was so angry
at the repetition of what he
regarded as grossly dishonest
allegations made for political
purposes that he “let himself
go,” and his audience was
emotionally stirred as I had
seldom seen one of his audiences
stirred before.
Another occasion on which,
plainly moved, he communicated
his own emotion to his audience
was at the Ashfield Town Hall,
Sydney, on April 17, 1953, during
the course of the Senate
campaign.
His audience was pre-
dominantly Liberal, and he
found it responsive. He had had
a bad day—-up at 5.45 a.m. in
Brisbane; an early flight to
Sydney; interviews during the
morning ; a snack for lunch soon
after midday ; a meeting at the
Assembly Hall at 1 p.m. at which
he spoke for an hour ; interviews
and a “miniature Cabinet” meet-
ing in the afternoon ; the news
that the Government candidates
had drawn the worst position on
the ballot-paper in the vital State
of Queensland ; and, to cap it
all, the announcement that the
basic wage had again risen more
than he had hoped—3s. in
Sydney, 7s. in Hobart—on the
eve of a crucial election.
He was in the heart of the
capital where he has always
commanded least personal
support in Australia. He was
tired. He had been subjected all
day to colleagues’ forebodings
of disastrous defeat. And at the
meeting in Ashfield he said some-
thing which convinced me —
though he would probably never
admit it—that in his heart he
had conceded the Senate a lost
cause.
An interjector had charged
him with “wasting his time,” and
the jibe touched a vital nerve in
his sensibilities.
“Sir,” he retorted, “believe me,
you don’t waste your time, even
if you waste your life, in
politics,”
It was a moment of agony
impossible to describe. And he
went on;
“For 25 years, with such intel-
ligence and energy as I possess,
I have devoted myself to the
service of my people and of my
country. I don’t think anyone
has seriously impugned my
honesty. I don’t think anyone
has seriously said: This man
has some indirect motive.’ I
may on occasions have been
WHAT BOB MENZIES REALLY MEANT
“Fellers of Australier,
Blokes an ’ coves an' coots,
Shift y’r — carcasses,
Move y’r — boots!”
BULLETIN cartoon comment (9/1/’52) on the Prime Minister’s New Year
appeal for united national effort.
wrong. But I have* not believed
myself wrong. And I tell you
quite frankly—whichever way
votes may come and go I shall
go on doing what I think is right
and good for the people of
Australia.”
It was a theme which he used
more than once in that campaign.
And I believe that unwittingly
he thus brought thousands of
swinging voters back to his side.
For you cannot stand for 25
years in the dreadful limelight of
the political stage and, ,if you are
crooked, fail to be discovered.
You cannot expect that hordes
of haters will not prise out of
your past every piece of ignoble
conduct of which you hav£ ever
been guilty and fasten it back
upon you in the full view of the
people.
Menzies has always recog-
nised the overwhelming import-
ance of conduct as compared
with mere intellectual brilliance.
“In the last analysis,” he has
said, “you will find that the great-
ness of England, for example, is
due to the fact that the ultimate
test that people have passed upon
other people has been the test
of their conduct and not the test
of their cleverness. The survival
of the Jews, and the survival of
i
Jewish literature and tradi-
tion, is also due to the fact
that in the whole of. the
Jewish writings the supreme test
is not intellect but conduct.”.
Few men in Australian public
life have had so many bitter
antagonists as R. G. Menzies.
Some of their mud has stuck
to him legends of his
“arrogance,” his “conceit,” his
“infirmity of purpose.” But what
he said himself that night at
Ashfield was substantially true:
“I don’t think anyone has
seriously impugned my honesty.
I don’t think anyone has
seriously said: ‘This man has
some indirect motive.’ ”
The Communists have said it,
of course. A few extremists of
the Labor party have said it.
But, as with Chifley before him,
a vast number of the ordinary
people of Australia have recog-
nised him as honest and decent
and sincere, according to his
philosophy of life.
“Menzies? Well, he may be
a , but at least he’s honest!”
I have heard it again and again
and again. And in that vital
Senate election people who dis-
agreed with his current policy
voted for Menzies the .man* be-
cause of the principles they
believed him to stand for in
Australia and in the world.
Apart from the notion that he
“lacks true feeling,” there is a
popular idea that Menzies doesn’t
know the meaning of nervousness
on public occasions when he
himself is the pivot of attention.
This idea is completely false.
Up to within a few minutes of
his delivering an important
speech, his hands and brow are
moist with perspiration.
Even today, when he has been
25 years in public life and has
become one of the great figures
of the world, no secretary would
submit some important issue to
him for consideration within an
hour or two of such a speech.
For he would be unable to give
it his whole, concentrated atten-
tion. The approaching hour of
his speech would be hanging in
his consciousness like some
malevolent spirit. And the only
sensible course for the secretary
would be to wait till the speech
had been delivered before
attempting to divert his mind
from it.
People think that speakers like
Menzies fluent, polished,
experienced—have no nervous-
ness. The truth is that unless
a speaker is nervous he is insensi-
tive to his audience, and incap-
able of responding to its mood.
So his speeches will usually be
dull and boring.
It is the same with the actor.
Unless he is nervous and respon-
sive to his audience his perform-
ance lacks the power to move
and convince. But actors and
public speakers alike acquire by
long practice a technique which
conceals their nervousness.
.In Menzies’s case the only
qualification to all this is that
once he is on his feet and well
into the stride of any speech his
nervousness disappears. Tt is the
hour of anticipation and the
minutes during which he is work-
ing to “get his audience with
him” that affect him most.
In 1951 an old schoolfriend of
the Prime Minister, Mr. Percy
Joske, Q.C., was elected to the
House of Representatives to fill
the vacancy created by Sir
Thomas (then Mr.) White’s
appointment to London. I went
into the House to hear him. He
was nervous, and I thought his
speech was only fair. Shortly
afterwards, I entered the Prime
Minister’s office and remarked:
“I was rather disappointed, sir,
by Mr. Joske’s maiden speech.’
Menzies looked up sharply.
“Were you?” he asked.
“He was probably rather
nervous,” I responded, lamely.
“Of course he was nervous,”
said the Prime Minister. “So
would you have been nervous.
I shall never forget my own
maiden speech. Before I made
it I had had a good deal of
experience at the Bar, and in the
Victorian Parliament. But
throughout my 20 - minute
maiden speech in the House of
Representatives I saw the gallery
opposite just sway gently from
side to side. When I sat down
I hadn’t a clue as to whether I
had said what I wanted to say
or not.
“Unlike you,” he concluded
tersely, “I thought Percy Joske
did a very good job today.”
How a Menzies Speech Is
Made
MENZIES’S delivery of a
speech is apparently so
effortless that it isn’t surprising
if most people think its com-
position must be equally so. On
numerous occasions, therefore,
he pays the penalty of his repu-
tation and is told, when asked
for a speech at half-an-hour’s


notice, or perhaps with no notice
at allup
“Come on—it won’t be any
trouble to you!”
How often have members of
his staff watched indignation rise
in him at such moments and
battle with his self-control for
expression.
“Too many people,” he once
The author of this series
of articles was for three
years Press-secretary to Mr.
Menzies.
said to me, “assume that because
a man has a reputation as a
public speaker he therefore, quite
automatically, speaks with sur-
passing ease and virtually with-
out thought. Have you never
thought that good public
speakers win their reputation
only with the hardest labor?
They sweat blood before any-
thing they do that is worth-
while ! ”
Sometimes when on tour he
has had to make as many as
nine speeches in one day. I have
known him spend a near-
sleepless night beforehand,
mentally planning the speech for
each function, determined not to
repeat himself, or to “inflict the
same thing on those who may be
compelled to be present and
suffer me each time.”
“Speech-making,” he says, “is
a disease which appears to infect
Australians more virulently than
any other people id the world.”
And he tells of how at a
primary producers’ dinner in
Victoria years ago there were 29
speeches, the dinner eventually
winding-up at 1.30 a.m.
“I remember,” he says, “that I
had accommodated my mind to
speaking for 30 to 35 minutes;
but with, what I thought a
mannerly consideration for other
guests I decided, when I saw the
way the wind was blowing, to cut
it down to 15 minutes. When 1
did so the State Minister who'
followed me immediately seized
his opportunity and expanded
his own remarks from 20 to 40
minutes! ”
The Prime Minister’s sparkle
as an after-dinner speaker has
its disadvantages—for him. He
happens to suffer from the per-
haps old-fashioned idea that the
fundamental purpose of a dinner
is the opportunity it affords for
eating in the most pleasant way
possible— i.e., accompanied by
conversation which is relaxing,
not argument about the problems
which beset him at his desk all
day. He therefore reserves a
particular hell in his regard for
the table - companion who
believes that an after-dinner
speaker must be kept in trim on
serious fare, and who, as the
fish is served, gathers his breath
and asks:
“What, Mr. Menzies, would
you consider the two most chal-
lenging problems in the world
t<sday?”
To enunciate them would be
to court an immediate invitation
for their exposition. And
Menzies has no great relish for
cold fish.
Menzies rarely writes his
speeches in advance; Winston
Churchill does so more often
than not. But in preparing
speeches each sweats blood in
his own way,
Menzies’s preparation is done
in his mind. First, he decides
upon his principal theme and
puts it down on paper. Under-
neath he writes sub-headings.
Except when he has to read a
carefully-prepared policy speech
or radio script these headings and
sub-headings on a single scrap
of paper, sometimes with a docu-
ment containing figures, are all
he ever takes with him on to a
public platform, or to the table
of the House of Representatives.
Development and variations
on each theme have been worked
out in his mind, but not in the
precise language which he may
use when he rises to his feet .to
speak. This is a technique which
leaves him free to deal with
interjectors whenever they pop
up.
His method of speaking is so
flexible that, as most people
know, he can parry and thrust
with an interjector for upwards
of two or three minutes without
losing the thread of his argument,
or being forced out of his stride.
Clarity of mind, clarity of
expression and a good vocabulary
are the ingredients which make
this technique so effective when
Menzies employs it.
In contrast, Churchill’s great
speeches are usually prepared in
writing in advance by Churchill
himself prepared with
meticulous care and regard for
the striking phrase and for all the
sonorities and cadences of the
English language at its best.
Then, particularly if it is a speech
for a studio broadcast, the Old
Man reads it with such art, sucn
perfect attention to the signi-
ficance of each word and punc-
tuation, that it bears all the marks
of extemporaneity. »
Churchill has long been aware
of the difference between his
own and Menzies’s technique in
speech-making. A few years
ago he and Menzies were the
principal guests-of-honor at an
Australia Club function in
London. Menzies had had no
time for his usual “mind’s-eye”
preparation. It was a big
occasion, he knew that he was
expected to match Churchill in
the post-prandial performance,
and he was frankly nervous at
the prospect.
So he took the unusual course,
for him, of snatching three-
quarters of an hour just before
he dressed for dinner and writing
out three or four pages of notes,
instead of the usual halt-dozen
heads and sub-heads.
A few minutes before he was
due to rise in his place, Churchill,
sitting next to him ''■but one,
leaned across and remarked:
“Ah, my boy, I see you some-
times do use notes after all.”
Menzies decided that this was
a challenge not to be ignored,
replied good-humoredly to his
famous neighbor, carefully
folded-up his notes and equally
carefully placed them beneath
his side plate. A few minutes
later he got to his feet and
delivered a speech as full of wit
and brilliance as any he had ever
made.
“Why is Menzies so bump-
tious?” an aggressive critic some-
times asks. “Why does he so
often appear to swagger in
public?”
I am certain that, if he does
give such an impression, the
mannerisms which cause it
proceed from self-consciousness.
J. B. Chifley could walk down
any street in any town and be
supremely unconscious of him-
self as Prime Minister. Menzies
could never do that. He is as
much an introvert as Chifley was
an extrovert.
It is true that Menzies does
not possess the virtue of humility.
He has a proper awareness of
his own abilities—which, though
his enemies call it vanity, his
friends regard simply as an
absence of mock-modesty.
Sometimes he makes an effort
at self-deprecation when speak-
ing in public! “Personally, with
such limited perception as I
possess”
Such efforts are rarely success-
ful. I believe they are made with
a sincere desire to avoid an
appearance of vanity or dogmat-,
ism. Instead, they seem redolent
of conceit. And it is one. of his
little human weaknesses that, for
all his magnificent intelligence,
he apparently cannot prevent
occasional lapses of this kind.
Bumptiousness, of course, can
be a manifestation of shyness ;
and many who know him
intimately subscribe to this
diagnosis. Interwoven with the
texture of that shyness there may
also be an element of defiance
against a world which has in the
past held so many enemies for
him —and which undoubtedly
still holds them.
In support of this theory of
shyness and self-consciousness
is his loathing of cameras,
despite the fact that he almost
invariably takes a good picture,
One of the few miseries of my
life as his Press-secretary was
trying to manoeuvre him into
position for Press- and newsreel-
photographers, especially when
flashlights were involved,
Newsreel - cameramen have,
indeed, suffered so often from
his brusqueness and lack of co-
operation that they no longer go
out of their way to film him, and
priceless opportunities for good
publicity are lost.
A waspish Pressman once
quipped: “Most politicians strut
into the lens. Menzies struts out
of it.”
The most embarrassing
example of non-co-operation
which I can recall occurred at
London airport in June, 1952,
after his arrival by strato-cruiser
from New York for conferences
THE HIGHWAYMAN
A BULLETIN cartoon comment of September 13, 1950, which tells its own story. Against party and other
opposition Mr. Menzies (as Stewart Cockburn relates) secured the double-dissolution and won the ensuing
election which ended the “Labor” Senate “hold-up.”
with Churchill and other
members of the British Govern-
ment.
Menzies was in splendid good
«humor as we circled to land.
Then, as we taxied down the
strip, I peered out and caught
sight of a battery of newsreel-
cameras drawn up beside the
official welcoming party.
“It looks as if you’re in for the
full treatment, sir,” I exclaimed
with cheerful tactlessness.
In an instant,, his mood
changed, and by the time he'was
ready to disembark he was at his
prickliest. He agreed to a Press
conference the airport, but
refused point-blank the requests
of the newsreels for a special
interview which would have been
featured throughout Britain and
the United States. We on the
public-relations side had quite
a job smoothing those newsreel
men down.
Unlike the photographic plates
themselves, this picture of
Menzies’s cameraphobia is not
all black-and-white. Nowadays,
news-photographers will often
deliberately set out to catch the
Prime Minister in an unflattering
stance.
An instance of this occurred
at Mascot, Sydney, just before
his departure for London in
May, 1953. As he was being
interviewed by Pressmen, a
photographer climbed a chair at
the back of the group, held up
his camera and waited.
Menzies, who was smoking a
cigar, suddenly interrupted the
interview and nodded to the
cameraman.
“Come on,” he challenged. “I
can see you’re waiting for me to
puff out my cheeks and make a
splendid series of smoke-rings—
a magnificent electioneering
picture for the other side. Now
what about getting the thing over
while I’m on guard?”
With ill-concealed resentment,
the photographer “got it over.”
But afterwards, when I
approached the photographer
with the object of smoothing the
incident over, he received me
without rancor.
“It was a fair cop!” he
admitted. “That’s just what I
was trying to get the old so-and-
so doing!”
The Prime Minister at Work
ON summer evenings in Can-
berra many a late-strolling
couple have slowly crossed the
great lawn in front of Parliament
House and gazed curiously up
at two windows in the east wing
of the long, white building.
As often as not it is past
midnight, and the light .which
still shines from these windows
is the only one left in the 465-
roomed Parliament. Since the
curtains are usually not drawn,
the broad shoulders of a man can
be seen, bending slightly across
ci desk
“Isn’t that the Prime
Minister?” one of the philan-
derers will ask.
And the two may pause for a
moment to make quite certain of
it, before resuming their more
agreeable preoccupation with
each other.
Most Canberra night-birds
whose business takes them past
Parliament House are familiar
with Menzies’s working habits.
A former personal assistant, Bob
Willoughby, had a slogan : “We
start work at midnight.”
Like all generalisations, that
has to be qualified; but it is still
true that the Prime Minister gets
some of his main desk-work
done in the early hours of the
morning.
Like Churchill, and many
another worjd figure, his brain
seems to be at its best when
the average family is thinking of
sleep.
There is, .of course, another
reason why he works late—dur-
ing normal working-hours it is
almost impossible for a Prime
Minister to get more than 15
minutes to himself without inter-
ruption. From the moment he
arrives in the morning until well
into the evening, Ministers,
senior departmental officials and
secretaries keep the double doors
of his office monotonously swing-
ing on their hinges, destroying
one precious interlude of con-
centration after another. Real
concentration, in fact, is all-but
impossible. The routine of the
day is a continual struggle
against interruption.
Chifley used to start work
before 9 a.m., work straight
through until about 1 p.m., have
lunch and a nap, start again
about 3 p.m., go to dinner some-
where around 6 p.m., return to
the office about 8 p.m., and finish-
up somewhere between 10 p.m.
and 11 p.m. Often he would
stay later, but I believe the times
quoted would reflect an average
day.
Menzies rarely reaches the
office before 9.30 a.m., and
frequently not until 10 a.m., the
usual time of his first appoint-
ment. He then works until
1 p.m., goes home to lunch at the
Lodge, returns to Parliament
House at 2.15 p.m., works
through until 6 p.m. or 6.30 p.m.,
returns to the Lodge for dinner,
is at his desk again at 8 p.m. or
8.15 p.m., and rarely goes home
much before midnight.
Ministerial colleagues and
members of his personal staff
find that the midnight-hour is
often the most fruitful for the
discussion and settlement of
issues requiring more than th/s
o Continued on page 30)


» m No. 9 o J a Senes
Men who make.,..
Copdm
-thbdtdMmj)
m
V,: " /
mm
* * r
The fondness that smokers have for the world
renowned Capstan brand demands its distribution
all over Australia. With so many retail outlets,
despatch from the factory must be maintained at
a steady flow, Mr, Tom Herbert has been in
charge of assembly and despatch during many of
his 36 years service with the Company. Because
of the present shortage of raw material Capstan
Tobacco is sometimes in short supply—but keep
asking for “Capstan’s own blend,” it’s worth
shopping for. Other interesting advertisements
in this series will follow——watch for them.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
SPORTING NOTIONS
Carioca was the subject of
strong support for the Doncaster
Handicap before racing began at
Warwick Farm last Saturday.
Many thousands in doubles bets
were set, while the horse also
had heavy straight-out backing.
The move indicates connections
strongly fancy him for' the first
leg of the autumn double. In
both the Doncaster and the Cup
Carioca has 9.7, but he is used to
big weights,
Birdwood’s failure in the Den-
ham Court Handicap at War-,
wick Farm caused him to ease
for the Doncaster. He had
galloped brilliantly two days
before, and defeat certainly
wasn’t expected by those privi-
leged to watch his Rosebery trial,
In Saturday’s race he was forced
very wide at the home turn;
even so, he should have done’
better. Maybe he was a trifle
underdone and could soon atone.
Carioca won the weight-for-
age Chipping Norton Stakes at
Warwick Farm last autumn, fol-
lowed by the Sydney Cup, for
which he started a warm favor-
ite and easily defeated Advocate
and Friendly Feeling. All three
figure in this year’s Sydney Cup
weights. That Chipping Norton
provided one of the best finishes
since its inclusion on the War-
wick Farm programme, Carioca
(10 to 9 on) beating Advocate
(B’s) by a short half-head, with
Hydrogen (6 to 4) a short neck
away third.
Carioca is expected to re-
peat last year’s success in the
Chipping Norton this coming
Saturday. Hydrogen again is
among the entrants. Others
nominated include Tarien, Gal-
lant Archer and New Zealander
Gold Scheme, a popular Sydney
Cup prospect. Hydrogen ran
second to Delta in the 1952 con-
test.
The 1951 Chipping Norton
event saw only two starters,
Comic Court beating Grey
Boots. Carbon Copy won the
event in 1950 and in 1949. Other
top-rankers won it more than
once, while Lough Neagh had
three successes. Fred Shean, his
jockey in two of them, is now
training horses at Rosebery. Jim
Shean, apprentice son of Fred,
won a race at Newcastle last
Saturday.
Lionel Israel, of Segenhoe stud.
Scone (N.S.W.), was at Warwick
Farm to see Hathor and Lovely
Day, progeny of his English sire
Nilo, a son of unbeaten Nearco,
win both two-year-old events,
Paracombe, another son of Nilo,
was successful at Caulfield the
same afternoon. Seventeen Nile’s
will be offered for sale at the
Randwick auction at Easter.
They include a brother to Lovely
Day, a brother to First Row and
a sister to Evening Bell. Hathor,
winner of the fillies event, is
from the John James (imp.) mare
Johneen, a daughter of Lord
Paramount (imp.) and Farzand.
She is from the family which
produced Akuna (Sydney Gup)
and Polycletan (A.J.C Metro-
politan).
Not having raced for months,
following a disappointing run
for his previous owner, Lovely
Day, now trained at Rosebery
by Percy Gutteridge, apparently
wasn’t fancied by the stable when
he won the Juvenile Handicap on
the post from Prince Jambo, who
wasn’t quite ready to show best
form. Prince Jambo soon will
be back on the winning-list. A
33-to-l shot at the Farm, Lovely
Day cost 2200gns. as a yearling.
He is a half-brother to Com-
mendable, and is closely related
to» Trivalve (both Derbies and
the Melbourne Cup). He is from
the same family as those noted
“It's not MY idea of hunting. Colonel !”
performers Hall Mark, Nuffield
and Murray Stream.
Bert Evans, owner-trainer-
breeder of Rapid River, says the
gelding is no certain starter in
the Doncaster, in which he enjoys
a nice pull in the weights with
7.7. Evans thinks he will have to
beat a much better field than
that he downed at Warwick Farm
to have a show in a top-class
handicap. Xhe gelding, now
emerged from Graduation Stakes
and due to tackle open company,
is a smart galloper, and it won’t
surprise if he soon beats a good
field up to a middle-distance.
On breeding he should stay, as
on the dam’s side he traces back
to unbeaten Grand Flaneur, who
won a Melbourne Cup. The
gelding is by Streamford from
Pry by Brazen (imp.).
Many at Warwick Farm were
surprised to see a horse that
usually comes from behind in its
races tearing away to a 25-lengths
lead, then finishing last in the 11-
furlongs Warwick Handicap.
That unusual run by Lord
Saunders (so far as a Sydney
course is concerned) played right
into the hands of the Priory
stable, as the fast pace set gave
Priory just the chance his rider,
McGrowdie, wanted, and he won
the race in record time,
2min, 16|sec,, three-quarters oi
a second outside Australia’s best
for the distance. In the Sydney
Cup Priory has 7.4, or only
41b. above the limit. He had
7.12 on Saturday, He is to be
given one more race before con-
testing the Cup. He is an
unknown quantity at two miles,
but he has a big pull in the
weights.
• • • •
Seventeen-year-old Ted Lee,
indentured to Randwick trainer
Fil Allotta, has ridden in only
46 races, but has created a fine
impression. He has piloted 10
winners, five seconds and five
thirds, a real achievement for a
’teen-age horseman. Three
months ago he rode his first
winner, Spencer, at Rosehill.
Spencer is one of the team of
his master. The lad has landed
two doubles—at Canterbury and
at Randwick —arid seems; assured
of a successful future, because he
is clever, capable, well-mannered
and is being ably tutored by an
expert. Fil Allotta was himself
a smart jockey in his time. Lee
won the final event at Warwick
Farm on Saturday on the little-
fancied Belshazzar.
••• • •
When Castle Moat, Randwick
Novice Two-year-old winner,
was offered as a yearling last
autumn the final bid of 425
guineas was not accepted and the
colt was passed in. A bargain
may have been missed. Now
raced by his breeder, I. W. Kelly,
for whom he is trained at Rand-
wick by veteran mentor Dan
Lewis, Castle Moat has an inter-
esting pedigree; his family lines
include Ellangowan, a winner of
the Two Thousand Guineas
(Eng.), Carbon Copy, and Eng-
lish Eclipse Stakes winner
Epsom Lad. Castle Moat is an
attractive looker by Chateau
Roussel (imp.) from Water
Hazard by Midstream (imp.)
from Absolution (imp.) by Friar
Marcus, and traces back on the
dam’s side to Fra Diavolo.
Chateau Roussel has the Carbine
blood in his make-up.
Raced by A.J.C. chairman
A. G. Potter in partnership with
W. A. Anderson, two-year-old
Mintmaster, at his second race
outing, ran a promising third to
Castle Moat and should not be
long from the winning-list. The
Randwick mid-week fixture was
in aid of N.S.W, North Coast
flood victims, and the 27,000
attendance ensured a substantial
sum being raised. Mintmaster,
a son of the Blue Peter stallion
Instinct, is New Zealand-bred.
He’s from Mintlight by Foxlight
(imp.) from Whirlmint by Whirl-
wind (imp.).
• • 0 |
-Little-raced two-year-old Nilo
(imp.) colt Paracombe, trained in
Melbourne by P. B. Quinlan for
Sir Sydney Snow, didn’t take
long to score a win. Costing
850gns. as a yearling, the colt
easily won the Caulfield Second
Maiden on Saturday, starting at
even money, so he must have
shown the stable something on
which to back him. A brother to
First Row, he is related to
Vatellor, a high-class winner in
France, and sire of English
Derby winners Pearl Diver and
My Love. Dress Circle, dam of
Paracombe, is by Actor (Fr.)
from Duse (Fr.) by Vatout from
Lady Elinor by Teddy—a back-
ground of some note. Vatellor
finished second in the French
Derby,
Melbourne trainer C. Wilson
paid 700gns. for the Masthead
(imp.) Malinke yearling colt now
raced as Mandingoes and carry-
ing the colors of F. H. Stamen.
The colt, a smart galloper on the
track, had raced poorly before
winning the First Two-year-old
Maiden at Caulfield. His dam,
Malinke, is a daughter of Valiant
Chief and Bright Queen by
Drake (imp.) and traces back to
Carbine’s son Wallace.
# • -• •
Foxaway, winner of a New-
castle Juvenile Handicap, is
raced by his breeder, A. E.
Cobcroft. He is by Whirlaway
(imp.) from Sly Vixen, a Dark
Fox (imp.) mare from Gobra-
billa by Magpie (imp.) and going
back to Trenton, a stayer of the
early years. Winfife, winner of
the Maiden event at the same
meeting, is a four-year-old geld-
ing raced by Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Buckley, and is by Red
Fife (imp.) from Wintress by
Winooka.
Jack Gaxieu, in earlier days a
noted amateur horseman and
winner of many picnic events, is
now an A.J.C. stipendiary
steward. He began his new duties
at Warwick Farm on Saturday.
For many years he was the club’s
race-starter, at which he had no
peer. Jack knows racing well
and should prove an efficient
steward.
• • . .
Bernborough was fourteenth
on the list of leading U.S. sires
in 1953 on the basis of money
won by progeny. Royal Gem,
another ex-Australian high-
stakes winper, was fifteenth.
Bull Lea, a noted American sire,
headed the list for the fifth suc-
cessive year, with 107 firsts, 87
seconds and 93 thirds. Bern-
borough also had 107 winners, as
well as 78 seconds and 102 thirds,
but the aggregate winnings of
his progeny was a good deal
less. Royal Gem’s progeny had
64 wins, including the Kentucky
Derby by Dark Star.
Rather much emphasis seems
to be placed on the betting-angle
at stewards’ inquiries into a
horse’s performance. After all,
some stables are noted for small
punting—they simply haven’t the
funds—while others feature
terrific plunges. The volume of
betting-money wagered on a
horse suspected by stewards of
not having been allowed to run
on its merits should not be a
major factor, yet it is one of the
first points discussed. The back-
ing of the horse or a lack of
support appears to be an early
question. A non-betting owner
could be placed in a spot, but
stewards may know most of these
light bettors. Stewards have keen
eyes, know the rules and the
game from all its angles, and
are in possession of powerful
binoculars. Jn the circum-
stances, less stress should be
placed on the betting-side. There
is an old saying “Money makes
the mare go.” At times it can
also have the reverse effect.
* * *
“Kay”: A new Australian six-
mile running record was made
last week —by accident! Start-
ing in a run (in Melbourne)
merely to assist Geoff Warren,
Neil Robbins went on to set new
time of 29min. 26.25ec. after
Warren had dropped out before
going half-way. Robbins, un-
placed in the event at the recent
Australian championships, has
probably left his run too late,
though, as far as getting picked
for the Empire Games is con-
cerned,
* * *
S’African wicketkeeper John
Waite, against N.Z., made a
world’s record of 23 dismissals
in a Test series. Previous best
was 21, held jointly by Harold
Strudwick (Eng.) and Gil
Langley. Langley’s effort (16
catches and 5 stumpings) was in
his first Test series, against West
Indies in 1951-52, Chances of
making such a record are greater
against weaker batting sides, but
they cannot be taken as a sure
criterion of a ’keeper’s ranking.
In the 1930-31 Tests against West
Indies, for instance, absolutely
dominated by Australia, Bert
Oldfield was able to snare only
13 victims (6 caught, 7 stumped).
And he didn’t miss any easy
ones.
* * •
Because Enzedder Barry
Brown had scored a t.k.o. win
over South African Gerald
Dreyer at Wellington (N.Z.)
early this year, to bag the'British
Empire welter championship,
Brown (10.6 i) was given a good
chance of beating Freddie
Dawson in their open-air
scrap at Sydney Sports Ground.
But Dawson is still too classy for
anyone in this part of the world.
Against Brown he gave away
inches in height and reach, but,
though Brown put up an excel-
lent show over the first couple of
rounds, the Chicagoan ended it
by sheer good punching in a
little over five rounds.


The Chisel with
n Difference I
VOU can see and feel the difference in a Titan Wood Chisel,
1 The gleaming, forged tool steel blade with its promise
of superb edge-holding qualities, the handsome hardwood
handle, the inherent strength and balance of a fane
chisel . . . these are qualities that come only from the
best in materials and workmanship.
And you know you are getting the best, because
every Titan Chisel is guaranteed against defects
in workmanship • and materials proof of
their outstanding quality and value.
Furthermore, they are more economical.
Titan Chisels cost no more, and their
keen, long-lasting cutting edges, strength
and balance help you do a better job
quicker.
You save every way with Titan
Chisels ... guaranteed, fine,
forged tools made by Aus-
tralians for Australians.
Write today to Dept . B ,
P.O. Box 86A , Melbourne,
for your free illustrated
Titan Catalogue .
Strength
to Spare
Mi
r/v,;:.' j
'mm
wf
U
®v*
SEw
.
W
m
is
m-i
'■■w
.
w
Forged from
B.H.P. Steel
Every Titan Chisel blade
is genuinely forged tool
steel, processed from
B.H.P. special steel.
Expertly hardened and tempered
blades with a Rockwell C Scale
hardness rating of 59-61, ensur-
ing a keen, fracture-resisting
edge. *
Handles of specially selected and
seasoned hardwood, finished with three
coats of clear lacquer.
Strengthening and protective ferrules of bright
drawn seamless steel tube.
control of every manufacturing stage and
rigid factory tests guarantee the quality and work-
manship of your Titan Chisel.
Every Titan Chisel is GUARANTEED
and will he replaced free if found
faulty in material or workmanship
See the full range
of Titan Chisels at your hardware store
MADE
AT HOBART, TASMANIA, BY ifjKSMi CQ * PTY - LTD -


In aluminium
containers
3/7 for 20
Light up one of these
superb English cigar-
ettes of pre-war
excellence. Savour
the rich, mellow
smoothness of that pure
Virginia tobacco—and you will
have formed a lasting preference for
Rothmans De Luxe Virginia I You will know why, m the
most distinguished homes and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted as
England’s luxury
cigarette.
Wm
as
h
I
■re
grT
S* JsffljSMiiii
mi,
f ''
Z'ttlßl
■j
*&&&£
m
/ -■■
;■■
s* \2
S «
f.-SvS
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
Sfycl/unaM, DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
Meeting
hall into dance
floor in five
minutes . . .
A floorful of Fold-A-Byo
Chairs is cleared in a
few minutes. They fold
to only 2 inches thick
and dozens stow in
a negligible space.
Caterers for
public seal-
ing and
floor space—
will find- Fol
A-Byesasound
investment.
£3.5.
w
FOLD-A-BYE
CHAIRS
are attractively de-
signed for comfort
and stability. They’re
built of steel to last for
years. Obtainable in a wide
range of easy -to - clean
colours.
WONDERFUL IN THE HOME, TOO!
Fold-A-Bye 'Chairs open, or
shut, with one movement only;
can’t jam up or crush fingers.
Contact your furniture sup-
plier, or write direct for Folder
F 4 or name of nearest Distri-
butor (all States).
SEBEL
STEEL
FURNITURE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S DEFENCE CHANGES
Reports on hydrogen-bombs
or -“devices” lately exploded
have been rather more than
nightmarish—an area six miles
in diameter completely “obliter-
ated” ; Japanese fishermen
allegedly 80 miles from the centre
of a blast being badly burned by
radioactive ash; fish being so
affected that eight hours within
30yds. of them could prove fatal;
and the announcement that the
U.S.A. is now able to deliver a
hydrogen-bomb to any part of
the world!
There doesn’t, then, seem to
be much of speculation about
the prophecy on the possible
nature of atomic-war in the
current British White Paper on
Defence: “It must be assumed
that atomic weapons would be
employed by both sides.
“In this event it seems likely
that such a war would begin
with a period of intense atomic
attacks lasting a relatively short
time but inflicting great destruc-
tion and damage. If no decisive
results were reached in this
opening phase a period of
broken-backed warfare would
follow, during which the opposite
sides would seek to recover their
strength.”
Horrible, and particularly so
from the point of view of a
country the size of Britain with
a population of nearly 50
million and intense industrial
concentrations—the danger-area
around the last hydrogen
explosion was given as 150 by
300 miles, or 45,000 square
miles. The area of England and
Wales is 58,000 square miles.
With the catastrophic develop-
ment of new weapbns and
speeds, defence in the old pro-
tective sense is nudging the
impossible as far as “total
war” is concerned. The White
Paper on Defence accordingly
shifts the emphasis from air-
defence to air-attack and stipu-
lates the necessity “to build-up
in the Royal Air Force a force
of modern bombers capable of
using the atomic weapon to the
fullest effect”: »
“A strong and efficient force
of medium bombers is of the
greatest importance to us both
for our own security and for
the defence of Western Europe.”
Commenting on the changing
pattern, London “Economist”
remarks that the Air Ministry’s
real dilemma turns on the change
from conventional high
explosives to atomic fission.
“Before the atom-bomb it was
possible to calculate with fair
accuracy the limit of losses to
any bomber-force beyond which
bombing missions would be
uneconomic to the attackers —
when the raiders’ losses, in terms
of men and machines and the
Washington “Star”
THE WEDGE
drain on national resources,
exceeded the damage done by the
raid.
“It was then possible to
calculate the size of the fighter-
defences needed to achieve this
rate of kill. During the last war,
it was estimated, bombing raids
could be stopped if an average
20 per cent, of the attackers
failed to return ; in practice an
attrition-rate of as little as 10
per cent, proved sufficient.
“Such calculations can still be
made, but they no longer give
comforting results. The devas-
tating effect of a single atom-
bomb is so tremendous that the
fighter-defence would need to
be certain of destroying more
than 90 per cent, of the attack-
ing bombers —and doing so
before they reached their targets
—to make the results of the raid
no longer worth the cost of
mounting it. By any standard,
this is an impossible task.”
Except that 90 per cent, might
be an optimistic estimate of the
necessary destruction of an
enemy air-force carrying atom-
bombs,, that seems a pretty fair
indication of the necessities
behind Britain’s defence changes.
“The pattern of this new
strategy is beginning to take
shape,” “The Economist” con-
tinues. “Deliveries of the
Valiant, the R.A.F.’s first
medium-range jet-bomber, will
begin this year and deliveries
of atomic weapons to the British
forces have already started. Such
bombers can reach into the heart
of Russia; the delta-winged
Vulcan and the ere scent-winged
Victor, which do not figure n
this year’s estimates, can reach
even further.”
Britain’s defence, of course,
does not begin and end with the
Air Force and atomic-war. It
falls broadly into three
categories: total war against
major enemies with atomic
weapons, limited war without
atomic weapons (e.g., Korea),
and police operations al> in
Kenya, Malaya, etc.
Also, as the White Paper puts
it, “Even in a major war it does
not seem likely that the
possession of new weapons will
make it any less necessary to
keep a firm screen of troops on
the ground and of aircraft to
withstand the first shock of an
attack, t© hold the enemy until
mobilisation is completed, and
to exploit and consolidate the
tactical situations which the new
weapons will create,” -
Towards those ends Britain is
spending £1640 million on
defence this year (1954-55); £367
million for the Navy; Army,
£561 million; Air Force, £537
million; Ministry of Supply,
£l5l million; Ministry of
Defence, £24 million.
The Army has 445,000 troops
(about half Regulars and half
National Servicemen) scattered
all over the world—United
Kingdom 145,000, Europe
(mainly Germany) 175,000,
Egypt 70,000, Korea 10,000,
Malaya 10,000, other overseas
garrisons 10,000, and about
25,000 in transit.
One reason for this danger-
ously-thin distribution is, as
London “Time and Tide” puts it,
“Our [Britain’s] enemies are able
to employ a technique which is
denied to us, a technique which
we have never before had to face.
Although not a single Russian
soldier is in action anywhere in
the world Communist forces are
able, with the support and
approval of the Kremlin, to
engage us and our Allies in a
number of different places simul-
taneously with the object of dis-
persing our forces, an object in
which they are for the present
successful enough.”
Bound up with that, note? “The
Economist,” are the two prin-
cipal problems before the War
Office today; “the difficulty of
training the Army to carry out
at least two very different types
of job at the same time, and the
difficulty of persuading the
Regular soldiers to re-engage
once their period of service is
over:
“At present, Britain has four
divisions in Germany, and the
equivalent of rather more than
five other divisions spread across
different non-European trouble-
spots or outposts of Empire all
round the wofld. The divisions
in Germany stand ready to meet
the most modern and most
horrible forms of Great-Power
warfare ‘first-league’ warfare
with an atomic vengeance.” The
divisions outside Europe, now'
that fighting in Korea has
stopped, mostly stand ready for,
or are actually engaged in, what
might be called armed—and
.unpleasant police operations.
It is not easy for troops that are
engaged in active operations in
Malaya and Kenya (or even in
guard duties in Guiana) to com-
bine these duties with training for
war in Europe.
“The War Office’s biggest
headache at the moment is that
so many Regulars are leaving
the service when their stipulated
period of service is up,” first
because excellent Army training
enables technicians to get well-
paid jobs outside, and, second,
because overseas postings are
responsible for some soldiers
having spent as little as only a
few months with their families
in ffie last eight and a half years*
“There is therefore a clear
need for increased inducements
to persuade Regulars to renew
engagements as their periods of
service fall in. High up on the
list should come more frequent
home-leave for Regulars over-
seas ; the air-trooping scheme
put into in the last year
of the Japanese war had an
electric effect on morale,
“A second step should be
higher pay for technicians and for
some ranks of non-commissioned
officers; if these allowances have
to be discriminatory as between
trades—with special scales for
special skills and ‘dirt money’—
the Army must comfort itself
that it is working in a competi-
tive economy.”
“The Royal Navy,” according
to the White Paper, “will con-
tinue to concentrate on building-
up and modernising its anti-
submarine and anti-mine forces
and on the completion of
aircraft-carriers now under con-
struction.”
“It is not easy,” adds “The
Economist,” “to remind the
nation of its dependence on sea-
borne supplies when the para-
mount role in attack and defence
is passing to aircraft. Minister
after Minister and one chief-of-
staff committee after another has
to be instructed in the historic
axiom that if Britain is to fight
it needs food and fuel; and
before it can get food and fuel
it must trade ; and both fighting
and trading must be done across
the sea.
“Once the sea-routes between
these islands and their friends
are closed, defeat is inevitable.
It is not easy to pit this humdrum
commonsense against the drama
of transcontinental atom-bomb-
ing, or against the urgent call for
more divisions to keep Western
Europe safe and free.”
At the heart of the Navy’s
problems is the apparent lack of
an offensive role for it; “There
is no enemy surface fleet in being
to be challenged and mastered.
Even if there were, the American,
British, French and other fleets
in Nato would have overwhelm-
ing superiority over it. Does the
offensive role of the Navy then
exist at all? If so, is the aircraft-
carrier the right weapon for it?
“The Americans have thought
it ever since the Japanese left
them with a great carrier fleet.
They have some 20 carriers active
and 42 in reserve, against the
Royal Navy’s three active, five in
reserve and four transferred to
training.
“The British naval officer
wishes to share this offensive
role, but he lacks the ships and
the aircraft for it, and, for the
time being,-the arguntent looks
like being settled by decisions on
priorities in aircraft-design and
-production in which the Naval
Staff has not the major voice.”
“The Navy,” concludes “The
Economist,” “has had to deal
with so many surprises in the
past that it is sceptical of other
people’s certainties about the
future.” Among other things,
“it distrusts the idea of prevent-
ing war by the deterrent of
atomic bombing because it dis-
tracts attention from what would
happen if the deterrent failed.”
And in that the Navy could,
perhaps, be very right.
Churchill? Eden?
Butler?
The “Churchill must go”
movement in Britain has not
noticeably shaken Sir Winston
at the foundations, but it has
focused a good deal of atten-
tion on possible successors.
Of Churchill himself, London
“New Statesman” lately re-
marked \j “The old buccaneer,
who has sought power ruthlessly,
feasted on war, hunted down
strikers, and poured contempt on
Socialists, has now mellowed
into a kindly, witty, peaceful and
statesmanlike old gentleman.
Malcolm Muggeridge precisely
missed the point in ‘Punch.’
Illingworth’s caricature shows
the Premier as a drooling, lifeless
old man, sitting at his desk,
hardly able to lift a pen.
“If he had shown a jovial
Churchill with his ear-trumpet,
laughing at everyone who was
expecting him to retire, that
would have been tnore convinc-
ing. His day is now short, but
effective. He spends his mornings
acquiring the feel of the world’s
pulse, working at answers to
questions, and planning superb
impromptus to follow expected
supplementaries.
“An excellent lunch puts him
in the best of form for an hour’s
dazzling display at the dispatch-
box. By tea-time he is tired,
but the afternoon has been a
brilliant success.”
To which may be added the
comment of the “Manchester
Guardian”; “The real test for
the country is whether we
[British] have a bad Prime
Minister or not. The general
verdict must be that we have had
a great many worse and no better
one is in immediate sight.”
Of those in sight to succeed
Sir Winston when the time
comes, London “Twentieth
Century” notes that the decision


need not be ,
expensive
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the'
Lavina
range.
ŵ
led tavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent's
17-jewelled
Laymas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
Every LAVINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and a
17~]ewelled movement.
LAVtNA
WATCHES
3L Sim 4 Hilfipko
Mogg
ifowey
(fcorc
twafafg? 1
lOWs|
ttacesi
NOW PRICED FROM
£799
• MORE POWER
All (kerosene-operated) models have
been increased a full 10% in brake and
drawbar h.p.l
• MORE FEATURES
New, modified front-end and steering
make it even more robust, extra strong.
Hydraulic lift and P.T.O. controls
now engage independently operate
separately or together!
• LOWER PRICE
Basic, kerosene-operated tractor with
electric lighting and starting, belt pulley,
drawb&r, independent turning brakes,
hour meter, sponge seat, chaff screen and
canvas engine cover —all as standard
f equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5
(fronts), 55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs,
£799.
• OPTIONAL PNEUMATIC TYRE
EQUIPMENT
600 x 19 (front), 11 x. 36 (rear), £BO
additional.
750 x 18 (front), 14 x 30 (rear), £lB6
additional.
600 lb. incorporated in each rear wheel,
£264 additional.
• OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT
108" axle, £l5; hydraulic lift and P.T.0.,
£99/18/-; overload release, £l9; hand
clutch, £6/5/-.
kAII prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with
twin front wheels also available.
TASK
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY UNITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania; METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NT.23.24
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
(AVSTRMJA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, JOYWTOH AVENUE. ZETLAND
has apparently been taken by the
Conservative leaders to prefer
Mr. Eden to Mr. Butler, a de-
cision which appears “to have
been made much too casually
and without appreciation of what
it means.”
Considering the history of the
two men, the same journal goes
on to credit Butler with surely
atoning for any earlier errors of
judgment a.s “a man of Munich.”
“He [Butler] was the chief
architect of the 1944 Education
Act which was a great advance
in the democratic organisation of
British society. In the six years
the Conservatives were out of
office, Mr. Butler came to be the
leader of the wing within the
party which never allowed itself
to appear as opposed to social
reform, and which accepted the
principles of the Welfare State.
He fostered the development of
serious research into social and
economic problems at head-
quarters, giving the party some-
thing of the professionalism in
this respect hitherto monopolised
by its rival.
“His appointment as Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer in 1951
was . probably the Prime
Minister’s most important act in
the assembling of his Cabinet.
It did credit to Sir Winston
Churchill. It did credit to Mr.
Butler also, for by his action
while in Opposition he made it
impossible for the new Con-
servative Government to pursue
a policy which could have been
attacked by the Opposition as
blankly reactionary.
“There is no doubt that next
to Sir Winston’s foreign policy,
Mr. Butler’s economic policy has
been the real achievement of this
Government.
“The pound has been
stabilised. Prices have ceased to
rise for more than a year. The
recurrent balance-of-payments
crises have stopped. The transi-
tion from a controlled economy
to a more elastic one has been
effected without the hardships
and social conflicts which the
Labor party foretold, and which
many even of the supporters of
the Government feared.
“Perhaps Mr. Butler, has been
very lucky. The movement of
the terms of trade has helped
him. Perhaps the credit for this
improvement does not really
belong to him. But until this is
proven by facts a large part of
the country [Britain] will remain
convinced that he deserves at
least some of the praise he has
been getting.
“On the personal side, he looks
young and vigorous. He is up-
to-date and open to new ideas.
He has had the experience of
foreign policy as well as of
domestic affairs. He was born
in Asia, and Jias shown a knack
of getting on well with Asians.
He has a sensitiveness for what
“De Tijd,” Amsterdam
THE RELUCTANT BRIDE
the public is thinking and an
ability to make the public feel
that he is catering for it. Some
people say that no Chancellor of
the Exchequer can be a good
Prime Minister. They remember
Mr. Chamberlain. But they
forget Sir Winston and Mr.
Gladstone.”
Of Mr. Eden, the “Twentieth
Century” maintains that his
reputation is based on a rela-
tively few earlier events —
youthful association with the
League of Nations, his quarrel
with Chamberlain and the praise
he won from Churchill in the
days of appeasement. But what
has Mr. Eden done when he has
held power?
“Outside the Foreign Office he
has not.distinguished himself as
an administrator. When he talks
on home affairs he makes rather
the same impression as does Mr.
Morrison when he speaks on
foreign policy. Gan anyone
whose political experience has
been so narrowly specialised
make a good Prime Minister?
“Nor will he really be remem-
bered as a great Foreign Secre-
tary. He came to this office when
Sir Samuel Hoare was driven out
for truckling to Mussolini. But
Mr. Eden did not stop Mussolini.
In his long years at the Foreign
Office his name has not been
associated with any great acts of
policy,' Where is Mr. Eden’s
Colombo Plan? What act of his
equals that of Mr. Bevin in
swinging this country into union
with America when so much of
the Labor Left-wing favored an
impracticable plan of setting-up
as a third force?
“In the present Administration
Mr. Eden has had the advantage
of succeeding Mr. Herbert
Morrison, but even so he has not
really shone. Where is the settle-
ment with Egypt? As to Persia,
for anything which Mr. Eden
has done we might still have
had Dr. Moussadek with us.
“The reason why Mr. Eden is
popular in the country is that he
has never preached class-war,
nor joined in the popular hunting
cries at Conservative-party
rallies. He has never attacked
the trade-unions or carried on
vendettas with Labor leaders.
But neither has Mr. Butler; and
to these virtues of tact and good
manners Mr, Butler adds an
efficiency much greater than Mr
Eden’s. \
“The chief task of the next
Conservative Prime Minister will
be to maintain the liberalism
which Sir Winston Churchill has
infused into the party. The task
will be the harder because Sir
Winston’s own instrument of
support, the anti-Munich faction,
is now beginning to die but. The
demand of the public—-curiously
similar in both Britain and
America —is for a chief executive
who, while being a party leader,
also in some measure elevates
himself above party.
“Because Sir Winston has
done this, his career has had so
splendid a sunset. Which of his
two possible successors looks like
having the force of character to
do the same? Which is the more
likely to thrive in the loneliness
of Downing Street? Few who
have studied the psychology of
the two chief contenders for the
succession can doubt the
answer.”
Rearming Germany
It’s more than likely that the
rearmament of Japan will be
a topic at the forthcoming
Federal elections, and, though
the case for German rearma-
ment is rather more compli-
cated, a good deal of the fol-
lowing British Press comment on
that subject might be applied
with equal point to Japan. Of
particular interest are the views
of British Labor’s Deputy-
leader, Mr. Morrison, as con-
trasted with the sentiments of
his Australian counterpart, Mr.
Calwell, on Japan.
« * *
London “Times”: “Wishful
thinking could hardly go any
farther than to believe that Ger-
many can be kept disarmed, ,de-
fenceless in its own right and
powerless for ever.”
* * •
London “Time and Tide ” ;
“It is inconceivable that the
German people, who, whatever
their faults, have revealed such
astonishing vitality in all fields
since the end of the war, will
not find a way of providing
themselves with adequate means
of defence. They did it after
the first war, despite Allied
efforts to prevent it. And they
will do it now.”
V * *
Herbert Morrison in London
“News Chronicle ”: “The risk
involved in treating the Germans
as a permanently inferior and
wicked race is the worst risk to
take and is most likely to create
the very nationalism we wish to
avoid. What the expansion and
developing strength of the
United Nations requires is a
Germany which is both demo-
cratic and helping to build col-
lective security.”
* * *
Edinburgh “ Scotsman ” .• “If
Germany is left as a vacuum in
Europe, Russia will have every
opportunity to step in. It is
surely better that the West
should win German support
while attempting within E.D.C.
to control the spirit of German
militarism.”
* * *
London Labor “Daily
Herald” : “Western Germans
have a manpower contribution
to make to the defence of 4heir
own country. It would be sheer
Gilbert and Sullivan to think of
Britons, Americans and French-
men fighting for them while they
sat at home.
* * ♦
London “Daily Telegraph":
“A neutralised Germany is an
impossibility; it would inevit-
ably become Sovietised. Nor is
a permanently disarmed Ger-
many practicable; Eastern Ger-
many is, in fact, already being
rearmed by the Communists.
The choice now before the Wes-
tern Governments and Parlia-
ment is, as Mr. Eden has said,
not whether Germany will .re-
arm but how it shall do so.
* » •
“Manchester Guardian”:
“How is Western Germany to be
rearmed? Mr. Eden holds
firmly to the European Defence
Community as the one solution,
and, on the. whole, this view
seems to be the most sensible,
although there is certainly room
for Britain to consider alterna-
tives if the people most directly
concerned (the European nations
themselves) should prefer
another method.
“Has the British Government
given all the help it can to-
wards creating E.D.C.? Mr.
Eden was emphatic that it had :
but many doubts remain. If it
had there would be no need
for the long and equivocal
silence about what exactly
Britain’s relationship with
E.D.C. will be.
“If Britain had done all it
could the negotiations with
France would not still be drag-
ging on, as Mr. Eden admits
they are. If Britain had done
all that it could it should have
given France the 50-year guaran-
tee it wants; it should have
promised it not to withdraw
from Europe and to have kept
its forces on the Continent at
their present fighting strength.
“Apparently Britain has not
done any of these things. There
is certainly no ground to say
smugly that now ‘it is up to the
French.’ ”
Various Voices
U.N. Secretary-General
Hammarskjold : “It is better to
disagree around the conference-
table and then try again, no
matter how frustrating the
experience, than to meet on the
battlefield in war.”


Missing Friend
FREDERICK LESLIE (usually called
“BILL”) CLARK, sometimes called BILL
EDWARDS.
Abovenamed will hear to his financial
advantage on writing to F. G. HICKS,
Solicitor, Adelaide.
few minutes between appoint-
ments which are usually all that
can be spared during the day.
One of the bitterest complaints
of his staff—no doubt it was the
same in the time of Mr. Chifley
and Mr. Curtin —is that the
Prime Minister is much too
accessible. In a country without
the historical class-distinctions
of, say. Great Britain, most
citizens apparently see nothing
incongruous in attempting to
interview the leader of the nation
on problems which are often
entirely personal.
Indeed, the number of people
who demand the right of personal
access to the Prime Minister on
matters of personal rather than
national importance is quite
fantastic. His private-secretary
receives between 20' and 30
requests a day for “special
appointments with the Prime
Minister.” Many of the issues
in question could and should be
dealt with by other members of
the Cabinet. But all argue that
“only the Prime Minister can
handle this matter.”
The requests for appointments
come from Ministers themselves ;
private members of Parliament;
departmental officials; Labor
members (usually on some elec-
toral matter vital to them); over-
seas visitors; representatives of
employers’ and employees’
organisations ; businessmen ;
members of the diplomatic
corps; private citizens (as often
as not with a letter of introduc-
tion “from your old friend S.”);
deputations; party officials;
overseas writers and journalists ;
executives of Australian news-
papers and the inevitable
sprinkling of cranks.
'The average non-Parliamen-
tarian usually points out that
“five minutes would be enough.”
But for those who succeed in
getting past the private-secretary
it almost invariably isn’t; and
the Prime Minister is naturally
reluctant to end an interview
abruptly when his caller has
obviously had insufficient time
to state his case fully. Most
appointments last from 15 to 30
minutes. A few go on for an
hour or more.
In between times the Prime
Minister has to fit in attendance
at Question Time in Parlia-
ment, and whenever else he finds
it possible. (One wonders what
would happen to the administra-
tion of the nation’s day-to-day
business if, whenever Parlia-
* ment is sitting, the Prime Minis-
ter obliged some of his critics
by spending all day in the House
listening to the debates.)
He has to make himself avail-
able for Press conferences,
speeches and personal appear-
ances at, diplomatic and other
public functions, appointments
with Ministers and departmental
heads at short notice on urgent
matters, by-election campaigns,
goodwill visits to the' various
States, radio broadcasts and a
host of other obligations.
In addition there is always
some currently important
national or international issue
or event requiring his concen-
trated thought and attention-
such as the Budget, or other
major items of Government
policy and . legislation, or
strategy and tactics for a forth-
coming election.
He is responsible for seeing
that departments carry out
Cabinet decisions. In emergen-
cies he authorises action on
matters which would normally
be brought to Cabinet for deci-
sion. He frequently receives the
diplomatic representatives of
other countries. He represents
his country at home and abroad
at important conferences. And
as leader of his own Parlia-
mentary party he must maintain
contact with his supporters in
Parliament.
Ministerially, the Prime
Minister is responsible for all
matters concerning the Cabinet
and Cabinet Secretariat; func-
tions-of State and Government
hospitality; Premiers’ Confer-
ences ; Executive Council;
Royal Commissions ; honors ;
the Commonwealth Office of
Education ; the Commonwealth
Grants Commission; the High
Commissioner’s Office and Aus-
tralia House, in London; the
National Security Resources
•Board; the National Uni-
versity ; the Historic Memorials
Committee; the Art Advisory
Board; the Commonwealth
Literary Fund ; the Public Ser-
vice Board; the Commonwealth
Archives Committee; , tihe
Auditor-General’s Office.
A few of these responsibilities
do not require a great deal of
work; but most of them de-
mand time which in the opinion
of a good many observers a
Prime Minister should be able
to devote to matters of greater
importance.
. Take, for instance, the attacks
in -Parliament during August-
September, 1952, on the ad-
ministration of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund. One or
two members —notably Mr.
Wentworth, Liberal, and Mr,
Keon, Labor claimed that
writers with Communist associa-
tions were receiving preferential
treatment in the allocation of
grants by the trustees of the
fund.
Several debates took place in
the House of Representatives,
and the Prime Minister ‘himself,
as the Minister responsible for
the fund, had to study the facts
and state the case for the
trustees.. It cost him hours of
his time at a particularly busy
stage of the current session of
Parliament. A junior Minister
could have handled the matter
quite adequately.
On the day on which Mr,
Menzies was required to put up
his main defence of the fund
I looked at his appointment-
book. This is how it read:
10.00 a.m.: Cabinet.
11.30 a.m.; Party meeting.
1.00 p:m.: Lunch.
2.00 p.m.: Official appointment.
2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.: Questions in
House of Representa-
tives.
4.00 p.m.: Cabinet committee.
6.00 p.m.: Informal meeting with
Senior Ministers.
6.45 p.m.: Dinner.
8.00 p.m.: Appointment With Senior
* Minister.
8.30 p.m.: Private members’ depu-
tation.
His speech had to be made
after Question Time, and, of
course, hie was late for an im-
portant Cabinet committee.
Nelson was credited with the
remark that he owed his success
in life to having always been a
quarter of an hour early for his
appointments. Evidently this
applies more to naval than
political battles; for, however
hard he may work, Menzies has
achieved most of his political
success to the accompaniment
of a splendid disdain for the
virtue of being early.
If there is one thing the
Prime Minister dislikes more
than another it is hanging
around waiting for an appoint-
ment, a meeting, or any other
event. His firm intention on all
occasions is to arrive as the
second-hand of his watch
touches the exact scheduled
moment of the engagement,
whatever it may be. Inevitably,
modern traffic and various
human factors being what they
are, he is often late. Being a
man of precision, he allows no
margin for error in the business
of keeping an appointment. To
be fair, he himself is usually
not responsible for delays. Bqt
with no margin the inevitable
frequently occurs.
For members of his staff
there are few more familiar or
nerve-racking rituals than stand-
ing at the door of the office, the
gangway of an aircraft, the edge
of a public platform, or the
entrance to a dining-room where
he is due to speak at a luncheon
and wondering, with an eye on
the clock: “Will the boss make
it? Has he got tied-up in the
traffic? Has someone ‘lobbied’
him in the straight?”
A secretary might have an
important message or some
other business to discuss with
him —something that has arisen
since last they were together.
Gradually all hope fades. The
second-hand of the secretary’s
watch ticks into the 60th minute
of the llth-hour —and then,
smiling imperturbably, unflus-
tered, with just enough time to
put down his hat and stub out
his cigar, the Prime Minister
appears through a doorway or
round a corner, and with
feigned surprise directs at his
aide, with his eyes, an unspoken
question, a question that re-
quires no answer: “You seem
agitated? What on earth for?
Didn’t you think I’d get here
in time?”
There is, some think, an ele-
ment of procrastination in the
Prime Minister’s make-up which
means that a good many essen-
tial tasks are left until the last
minute. Menzies, however, does
not believe in crossing his
bridges before he comes to them,
and that thin vein of procrastina-
tion is thrown into sharper re-
lief than it deserves by his
knowledge that a decision made
too soon must often be altered
in the light of subsequent
developments developments
which take place after the de-
cision, but before the date of its
operation.
In this respect Menzies may
have something in common with
the famous Samuel Johnson.
Says James Boswell, in his Life
of Johnson : “He [Johnson]
seemed to learn by intuition ;
for though indolence and pro-
crastination were inherent in his
constitution, whenever he made
an exertion he did more than
anyone else .... tie discovered
a great ambition to excel, which
roused him to counteract his
indolence. He was uncommonly
inquisitive ; and his memory was
so tenacious that he never for-
got anything that he either
heard or read.” (The italics are
mine.)
There it is: “a great ambition
to excel.” Unquestionably that
has been one of the main driving
forces of Menzies’s life. It is
something quite instinctive with
him. It has kept him in public
life for a quarter of a century,
challenging all rebuffs, indigni-
ties and defeats. It has “coun-
teracted his indolence” and
fought against that tendency to
procrastinate. It has been a
root-cause of his success.
In any case, it would be
rather odd to accuse of “in-
dolence” a man who, in his
“slave days” at the Bar, spent
eight and nine hours a day in
court and chambers and then
went home to study, on six
nights of every week, until
1 a.m. or 2 a.m.!
The habits of those days, in-
deed, became so ingrained that,
as has been already pointed out,
his best desk-work is still done
at night; and he rarely gets to
sleep nowadays before the early
hours of the morning, usually
reading an Agatha Christie in
bed for half an hour or an
hour to distract his mind from
the problems of the day before
turning out the light.
(To be continued next week)
Deadlier
Thean The
male
by Bob
Rose
HE stared through the
plate-glass window at
the mechanics laboring
in the large, new
factory below. His mild blue
eyes took in each section of the
long, orderly rows of cars, and
the overalled car men bent over
opened bonnets or lying under-
neath flashy-looking jobs fresh
from the assembly-line.
An indicator flashed on the
switchboard in front of him and
he pressed a button.
“Job No. 17,” said the
speaker. “I’ve fixed that cylinder
and checked the crankshaft,”
He released the button and
flicked a switch, talked softly
into a microphone while making
notes on the job card, then
switched off again to answer
another “red.”
The microphone hook-dp was
a new idea to him a short time
ago, but he was quite at home
with it now. An American
innovation, it was already saving
him money besides shoe-leather
and aching feet. The switch-
board in front of him was alive
with information coming in all
the time from every part of the
works. Each “job” had its
section and each section a
microphone and speaker so
installed as to be heard only by
the man using it.
Big Bill Nolan was having a
wonderful time with his buttons
and switches, although he had
been sceptical at first. Like his
father, a retiring sort of man with
little front or polish, a well-
trained and certified mechanic
who didn’t have to bluff to put
it over.
Nolan and Son had begun
again after the war with a small
factory down a city laneway.
and had prospered beyond all
imagining. This factory was in
one of the outer suburbs. It was
one of the biggest and most
modern of its.kind in Australia,
It had cost a packet, but Nolan
and Son could afford it now.
He nodded to the foreman and
backed away from the board to
give him room. Work awaited
him in his private office in
another part of the building.
Both his telephones were side by
side on the blotter, and his
secretary wafted into the room
as he sat down.
He picked up one of them with
a feeling of resignation, the
black earphone cold against his
freckled skin.
“Speaking,” he said, and
waited for a name.
TT was Madden, one of the
A office staff; he was being
long-winded. Big Bill’s mind
checked; he told Madden to
hold on and took up the other
phone. A voice began detailing
items of an outside job. He
listened while his eyes rested
on the phone lying still,
inanimate, on the white blotter.
And thought of Madden.
Madden, with his watery eyes
and perpetual cough, hadn’t
been on the staff long. An
excellent clerk, but a sick - man.
Big Bill wondered what it was
pressing at the back of his mind,
then he remembered. Madden
had to be fired.
Mrs. Hopewell, the office
secretary, had been on to him
about it. His work wasn’t up to
scratch. “I think that, subject to
your approval, Mr. Nolaq . ”
Long thin nose and shifty eyes.
But it was Mrs. Hopewell he
was thinking of and not of
Madden, Still, he thought on.
Though of the Hopewells, The
male and the female. Hopewell
was in charge of service: A good
man in his way, but hard with
his assistants. Hopewell could
control his staff and go on ignor-
ing shop dislike. But he never
would command loyalty, and
the service staff would have suf-
fered if he hadn’t been aware
of the small mind under the fair
curly hair and the friendliness.
Hopewell had started with
Nolan and Son a long way back,
and had worked his way to the
position of service-manager after
a start from the lowest rung of
the ladder. He’d earned his pro-
motion, but was a prig.
Big Bill changed the receiver
from one ear to the other and
cocked an eye as Lindy, his
blonde secretary, waved at him
with a big bundle of papers on
her way out. His eyes followed
her as she went like a breeze
through the factory. The
mechanics all had a smile and a
grin for her as she passed.
Lindy was attractive, very, but
that wasn’t all of Lindy, not by
a long way. Her blue eyes were
full of sunshine, but her heart
said love. He wondered what
Lindy would do if she had Mrs.
Hopewell and Hopewell on a
staff of her own. They didn’t
hit it off, she and the Hopewells.
TPHERE were some cigarettes
on his desk. He put one into
a corner of his mouth, took his
lighter out of a pocket and lit
it, letting the smoke curl slowly
away from him.
The voice at the other end
ceased. He said “right,” and put
the phone back ,on the rest. It
rang and he took it up again,
but this time the caller was brief.
He sat for a moment staring
at the instrument lying on the
blotter, through the cigarette
haze. A slight eddy of draught
was taking the smoke out through
the door. It had been a chilly
morning. The radiator under-
neath Lindy’s table glowed un-
disturbed.
He pressed a button and Mrs.
Hopewell was in the room. She
always came in like that. Before
you knew she was there.
Freckled paw went quickly to
the blotter covering the mouth-
piece.
“How about Madden?”
He wished she wouldn’t mince.
Smile, that ingratiating smile he’d
learnt to detest:
She thought it best, in the
circumstances, asthma, it was a
pity ... so many . . . but well?
“Asthma,” he blundered. He
was the bull in the china shop
every time he spoke to this
woman. Nonplussed. But he
tried again.
He asked her about the job-
costing. He knew Madden could
be relied upon for that
work. Could this woman? He
wondered if she could. He
guarded his gaze too late. She
had taken the point. But the
only difference was a tightening
of the thin lips. Her eyes were
noncommittal and the smile lay
unchanged.
She was leaving it to him. In
her silence, conveying all that she
thought or could think. Was
washing her hands of it. Would
use Madden’s presence as an
excuse for her mistakes. And
Lindy had already a binful of
those.
“I might want him,” he said.
She nodded and went out. Big
Bill watched her go. He could
have sworn there had been tears
in her eyes and pity filled his
heart. If it wasn’t her it was
Hopewell. But she . ..
He okayed Madden and rang
off. Then he took a pufi of his
cigarette, being careful not to
inhale. Most people, he thought,
put his smoking down to tem-
perance. And, in the factory,
only Lindy knew him to be a
chronic asthmatic.


Automatic cooking
WITH TRUE THERMOSTAT CONTROL
y*>
SHOWER
mi
Me
n . /
WASHING
..d/n^r
BATHING
jburn<¥
COOKING
mot#
'" * „
r
con
WASHING UP
J
§ ®
mum
'mrp
Insulated
Cooker
and
Water Heater
I I
m •
Canmichael "400
* BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL.
★ EXTRA LARGE ROASTING OVEN AND SLOW*COOKING OVEN-
both vitreous enamelled inside and out.
★ EXTRA LARGE HOTPLATE WITH ROOM FOR SIX G-INCH
SAUCEPANS.
* HOTPLATE COVER KEEPS HEAT IN THE HOTPLATE.
ic CONSTANT HOT WATER —for kitchen, bathroom and laundry.
W* ACID-RESISTING TITANIUM ENAMEL FINISH — easy to Clean,
adds beauty to the kitchen.
Carmichael 400 . . . so simple to use, so economical,
so convenient'. »
TWO extra large heat sealed fully enamelled ovens
with non-tip shelves.
TWO super size hotplates with perfectly flat
machined surfaces.
This magnificent stove gives you perfect AUTO-
MATIC cooking and is always ready for instant
use. The heavy casting within the range stores
au, the heat and only a minimum of fuel is required
to maintain cooking temperatures. For economy,
efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Carmichael 520
is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . . . it's a
"Ea/imirhaeL
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
A unit of Email Limited
WRITE TODAY for free illustrated literature to:
(Country Distributors) Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
11 Market Street, Sydney
or
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street, Auburn
Wants
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
References relating to Louis Becke,
the Australian author, in books,
periodicals and newspapers, especially
of a biographical nature; also copies of
letters written by him; also any other
information relating to Becke that
would assist in the writing of a
biography of him. —5747.
To buy copy of A Curate in
Bohemia by Norman Lindsay.—s74s.
Large tropical sea-shell suitable for
use as a bird bath in garden.—s 746.
Words of ballad one line of which
runs:
For Mary lived at Irish Lord’s, on the
road to Ivanhoe,
—5750.
Words of ballad “Dargan’s Grey.”
—5751.
Information Sought
Am 1 still entitled to . the old-age
pension if I leave Australia to live in
Scotland ?
A reciprocal agreement between the
United Kingdom and the Common-
wealth of Australia which commenced
from January 7, 1954, has made it
possible for Australian pensioners to
receive pension in the U.K. Should
the pensioner leave Australia for tem-
porary residence in Britain, payment
of Australian pension, subject to
exchange-adjustment, will be paid by
cheque to his address in the U.K.
from Australia House, provided the
period of his journey from Australia
to the U.K. is less than three (3)
months. Payment during temporary
absence cannot be made to invalid
pensioners. In the case of a pen-
sioner leaving Australia for perman-
ent residence, provided he reaches the
U.K. within three (3) months from
the date he left Australia, payment of
pension due for the duration of the
voyage will be made to him by the
Registrar of Social Services, Aus-
tralia House, London, on his arrival.
His Australian pension would then be
cancelled and he should contact the
nearest office of the British Ministry
of Pensions and National Insurance,
making application for U.K. pension,
which, when granted, cannot exceed
the full standard rate of U.K. pensiOT,
which is at present 325. 6d. sterling
per week. In both cases the intending
traveller should call personally at the
Commonwealth Department of Social
Services approximately one month
prior to leaving Australia in order that
the arrangements for payment in the
U.K. may be made.
* * * *
(1) What are some of the forms
of cramp? (2) Treatment for
cramp in leg-muscles ?
(1) Cramp is the painful, involun-
tary contraction of a muscle, caused
by strain or overuse; cramp in the
leg-muscles afflicts swimmers. There
are heat-cramps—pain in the muscles,
often accompanied by nausea ano
vomiting, which occurs during hard
work in a hot environment. It’s due
to loss of- salt through perspiration,
and is also called miner’s cramp or
stoker’s cramp. Reader’s cramp is
a spasm of the eye-muscles following
prolonged reading. Writer’s cramp
occurs in those constantly writing
with pen or pencil, and is character-
ised by painful spasm of the muscles
of the forearm, hand and fingers
(it’s a rare condition nowadays).
Occupation (or fatigue) spasms nre
a group of affections characterised
by spasmodic contractions brought
about by the voluntary movement
involved in some regular action.
(2) Massage, heat-treatment (the
homely hot-water bottle, poultice or
fomentation; complex methods such
as diathermy, if available, can also
be used) and rest should be sufficient.
Cfamps can be stopped by strong
stationary pressure on the affected
muscle.
♦ * ♦ ♦
How to preserve olives?
Place freshly-picked green olives in
a solution of 100 parts (by weight) of
water, 6 parts carb. soda and one
part caustic soda, Keep olives in
solution from three to four days until
the fleshy pulp softens slightly. Re-
move olives and place them in clean
water, which should be changed fre-
quently for several hours until it
becomes quite clear. The olives are
then ready to be preserved in brine,
which is made as follows: Make
saturated solution of salt in water,
decant, and add to it twice its volume
of pure water. Place olives in jars
or barrels and fill up with brine,
keeping them well covered with the
solution. For stuffed olives, make a
paste of one hard-boiled egg, loz.
butter, salt and cayenne pepper, one
teaspoon chutney, one tablespoon
anchovy fillets. Stone olives and fill
with paste.
Brief Answers
J.L.N.: In 1945 the population
of W.A. was 474,000 (approx.); it
is now in the vicinity of 620,000....
E.H.: Sydney Infirmary (Report
from sub-committee relative to charges
against management of) —ordered by
the Legislative Assembly to be printed
Nov. 8, 1870. The report; is said to
have appeared in the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” of Sept. 17, 1870, where,
presumably, it may be referred to,
and appears as a Parliamentary Paper
in New . South Wales Votes and Pro-
ceedings 1870-71, vol. iv, at page 123.
M.O’K.: The book you refer
to as Propagation of Trees, by Kane,
is probably Propagation of Plants,
by M. G. Kains and L. McQuesten
(New York, Orange Judd, 1953, 3rd.
ed.). This book contains informa-
tion on methods of propagation of
most varieties of plants and trees.
Copies are available from Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street; Grahame Book Co., 39
Martin-place, and no doubt from
other booksellers, price 475. 6d
A.W.C.: Aster R. C. Corbould was
a painter of cattle, and exhibited 138
paintings at various exhibitions in
London betwen 1842 and 1877. The
information comes from Graves’s
Dictionary of Artists. Unable to sug-
gest the possible value of your paint-
ings J.H.C.: Winston Churchill,
in Vol. I (“The Gathering Storm”)
of his The Second World War, says
of the Maginot Line —“In the after-
light the policy of the Maginot Line
has often been condemned. It cer-
tainly engendered a defensive mental-
ity ; yet it is always a wise precaution
in defending a frontier of hundreds
of miles to bar off as much as pos-
sible by fortifications, and thus econo-
mise the use of troops in sedentary
roles and ‘canalise’ potential invasion.
Properly used in the French scheme
of war, the Maginot Line would have
been of immense service to France.
Having regard to the disparity of the
population of France to that of Ger-
many, the Maginot Line must be
regarded as a wise and prudent
measure. But it was extraordinary
that it should not have been carried
forward at least along the River
Meuse.” Also, “The offensive con-
ceptions of the line were not carried
into effect, and the line not only
absorbed very large numbers of
highly-trained regular soldiers and
technicians but exercised an enervat-
ing effect both upon military strategy
and national vigilance” J.McD.:
To get as near a match as possible of
the paint you want to mix with the
paint already on, put a swathe of the
new paint on a piece of tin or sheet
metal and place it near a radiator or
in the oven for quick drying. If not
quite right, remix and test again in
similar fashion N.S.: Old sump
oil will help to prevent heavy clay
soil sticking to a posthole-digger. Dip
and turn the tool occasionally in a
drum of the oil G.R.W.: Can-
not advise on the matters raised.
The United States is not a member
of the International Copyright
Union, and inquiries regarding regis-
tration of copyright there should be-
addressed to the Registrar of Copy-
rights, Library of Congress, Wash-
ington (D.C.). Under the Australian
Act the author, who is the first
owner of the copyright, may apply
for registration of copyright at any
stage, i.e., before or after publica-
tion. Copyright in a work of Aus-
tralian origin extends throughout the
British Commonwealth of Nations
and such countries of the world as
are members of International Copy-
right Union (commonly called the
Berne Convention). If you wish to
become acquainted with the law of
copyright study the textbook on
copyright by Copinger and Skone
James, copies of which are available
at the Patents, Trade Marks, Designs
and Copyright sub-offices at Sydney
or Melbourne and should be avail-
able at most public libraries
R.M.C.: We suggest that it be sent
to the Keeper of the Queen’s
Archives, the Rt. Hon. Sir Alan
Frederick Lascelles, G.C.8., G.C.V.0.,
C.M.G., M.C., Norman Tower,
Windsor Castle, England
J.D.H.: Unobtainable from seed-
merchants. Try advertising
N.A.O’D.: (1) Yes, assuming the
existence of a contract. (2) No.
Non-registration does not invalidate
legitimate contracts J. 8.: Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, can supply an exten-
sive list of books on the subject.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.C.H.: You tied yourself up, in
“String” J.F.: You need a more
compact form to do justice to the
pleasant but loose thought of “In an
Empty ‘ Subway”... .K.W.: Some
force there; not enough discipline....
A. MacL.: Rupert Brooke did it so
much better; and surely, unless you
take a great deal of it, beer wouldn’t
really make you cry H.V.P.: Liked
your tribute to Shaw Neilson, but
there’s no reason to publish it unless
it’s as good as Shaw Neilson; which
it isn’t P.L.: “For back there God’s
specific gifts of Nature Are all lost m
the speed that does descend.” What’s
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
that again?... .Mrs. Battleacks; Try
it on the boarders.. . .I.M.A. : You
seem to have a genuine feeling for
fish but hardly for poetry. Ever tried
paragraphs or short articles?....
M.R.: Too much miracle and not
enough bird... .C.W.J.: Thanks for
sending us the description of your
nightmare.. . .V.F.; Endings are one
of your great difficulties; especially m
“Northern City”... .D.K.R.: Naiads
and Vikings live too far from Aus-
tralia for us Mick M.: You’ve
certainly curbed your Muse. But do
you seriously suggest that the school-
inspector thought Nelson won the
battle of Waterloo?. .. .V.F.A.: Not
a hope at that length. Accompanying
references as to your character arid
intellectual attainments have been duly
approved and will be returned....
LB.: Curious and interesting
8.L.K.: Do we accept'short-stories?
Yes; but poems about mystic moon-
maidens stand a very slim chance
R.L.: Well, we “gnashed some mean-
ing from the eddies there,” but on
the whole the Canberra lyrics had
best be blamed on the climate
R.C.: Both rather prosy R.F.:
“Oh, give me the endless Dividing
Range.” Sorry, it’s not our property.
P.L,: A glimmer of something in
“Night and Rain and Glass”....
W.A.E.: Note your modest ambition
to have your poem printed in this
column, but there are depths you do
not quite reach P.J.F.: Possibly
promising if you’re young. A string
of rhetorical questions doesn’t make
a poem, though... .L.R.8.: You seem
to have looked closely at your Queens-
land trees and wildflowers. Now look
closely at your poetic lariguage and
chuck out all those alien and anti-
quated “Zephyrs,” “Tavern Rogues”
and “winds that pipe a lay” R.P.:
Both very well-worn themes
F.R.F.: Ballad too long and too flat,
but try another... .T.D.N.: “Ex-
plorer” and “White Black-man” sec-
tions, though slight, came close
0.R.: You fell off “The Perch”....
A.P.D.: Dimly, in line 214, we per-
ceived what seemed to be a glimmer
of meaning; but perhaps this .is doing
you an injustice R.N.: “Have you
a match? ” went out L.P.:
Pale and flat as the wrong side; of a
flounder A.N.A.: Try it oh the
girl. If she forgives-you for that poem
she’ll forgive you anything D.J.:
“Curiously enough, the thought came
to me while shaving.” Grow a*beard.


zfhe
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
il
H
9th to 20th APRIL, 1954
10 DAYS - ■ 8 NIGHTS
You should see the “Farmers’ Boy” display by Grazcos
Co-operative Ltd. on Anthony Horderns’ Stand at
Sydney Royal Show.
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
The “Farmers’ Boy” Series II Standard Machine with
IJh.p. Villiers Engine includes Cultivating teeth which
work marvels in your vegetable garden and Dutch hoes
to cut off the early flush of weeds.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe.
Rotary Hoe.
Generator
for lighting,
hole-boring, etc .
THE PERFECT ANSWER to PAST ALUM and DANK
WEED GROWTH is the
“FARMERS’ BOY” ROTARY SCYTHE.
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached revolving
at a high speed guillotines paspalum and will cut grass
as short as you wish. Ideal for cutting green feed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmower
Ideal attachment for
greens, parks and
lawns.
Also ask for the
new CLIPPGBARS
HYDRAULIC HEDGE
TRIMMER.
Other attachments include:
SAWBENCH, Grass CUTTER-BAR,
PURROWER, TRAILER, COMPRESSOR for
inflating tyres and spray painting,
SPRAY, DUSTER, etc.
Please write or telephone yow nearest State
Distributor for free particulars, and/or
demonstration, mentioning this advertisement.
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE LTD.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE LTD.,
90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND)
LTD., 443 Adelaide St,, Brisbane. FA 2631.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fairmead Project
“J.F.”: Walter Skelsey, editor
of “Queensland Country Life,”
went to the Bundaberg district
to look at cattle ; while there he
had a look at the Fairymead
Sugar Company’s property,
where the company has been
engaged in reclamation work,
and wrote an article which
aroused extraordinary general
interest. Present writer has
since seen dozens of references,
rehashes and appreciations of
the article, and since it has now
become, as it were, public
property, proposes to draw on it.
Skelsey begins by saying (with
appropriate qualifications) that
the Fairymead concern has a
land-reclamation scheme com-
parable in some respects with
the A.M.P. Society’s scheme in
the Ninety Mile Desert of South
Australia, because (1) both
schemes have brought waste
land into production, (2) ready-
made ‘farms are being released
to settlers, (3) they are the out-
come of private enterprise,
which has provided finance and
taken all the risks.
The company has consider-
able interests (Queensland
estates 36,000 acres, of which
5000 acres are in process of
being cut-up for soldier- and
civilian-settlement). There are
seven plantations: Fairymead,
Avondale, Springhill, Hapsburg,
Goodwood, Booyan and Wai-
mea, Fairymead (5045 acres)
was originally a swamp. Flood-
gates, drainage, etc., ■ have
turned it into good cane-land.
In 1952 the company began a
scheme to bring virgin land in
the Fairymead and Moore Park
area under sugar. Farms were
originally intended for soldier-
settlement, but when this plan
broke down through a disagree-
ment between Commonwealth
and State Governments over
finance, Fairymead Sugar Com-
pany went on with the project.
Three huge mechanical clam-
shell shovels dug 25 miles of
drains and diverted creeks from
their courses. Bulldozers pushed
through tea-tree scrub.
Each of the 50 farms will
have 60 acres of assigned cane-
land. About half of the farms
have already been sold, with
preference to ex-servicemen, and
the first settlers have moved in.
It is expected that settlement will
be completed before the end of
this year.
If the project isn’t quite com-
parable, in scope and execution,
with the A.M.P. scheme—-a
gigantic affair—the points made
by Skelsey summarise the appeal
it has for people normally in-
terested in sugar purely as con-
sumers. And the scale and
celerity of the scheme is some-
thing which is in sympathy with
the spirit of the times.
“S. Cane”: In this part of
South Queensland, on the
Maroochy River flats, good
crops of cane have come from
land below high-tide level. A
drainage-system, with a flood-
gate cemented in the main exit,
is the recipe ; earth excavated
from drains is used to build
walls. Some growers use power-
driven pumps. This year things
didn’t work according to plan.
On January 8 the tide swept into
many fields ; then the cyclone of
February 20 sent a freak tide
which went over a lot of high
ground as well as the basins.
Damage would have been
greater if there had been heavy
rain before or after the tide.
Looks as if those walls will have
to go higher.
Wheat Tests
“Myrr”: At Rochester and
Numurkah (Vic.), Quadrat, Pin-
nacle and Insignia outyielded
seven other prominent varieties,
including Diadem, Pindar and
Sherpa. The three varieties
occupied 81 p.c. of the area
sown to wheat in northern Vic-
toria last year. At Numurkah,
over six years. Insignia averaged
32.2 bushels an acre, or one
bushel more than Pinnacle, and
1.2 bushels more than Quadrat,
whereas at Rochester, in a five-
year test, Quadrat led Pinnacle
and Insignia by half a bushel
and one bushel respectively. The
department is advising growers
in northern areas to sow more
Insignia.
Brush-box
"Farmer Bill”: The Brush-
box (Tristania conferta ) is one
of the N.S.W. coast’s front-rank
utility trees. Given soils to its
liking it advances at the rate of
4ft. to sft, a year.
Few trees are so well-suited to
dairy-farm planting. Its widely-
branching habit and dense foliage
make it ideal for shade in stock-
paddocks, Five or six mature
trees, planted grove-wise, will
provide a score of cows with a
haven of coolness in summer.
A windbreak of brush-box in
the back-row, and black or green
wattle in the front-row, develops
into a thick bulwark of leaves
giving staunch shelter in winter
and summer. Lower branches
of the wattles should be trained
earthward to cut off the ground-
draught. The Cyclops {Acacia
cyclopis ) is another good wattle
to combine with brush-box.
Growing to a height of about
12ft., it spreads out densely on
all sides and reaches right down
to ground-level.
Thousands of brush-box can
be seen decorating N.S.W. streets
and highways. A handsome
fellow, the tree has tidy leaf
habits. The timber is not as
durable as that of many
eucalypts, but is white-ant
resistant.
Protecting Chickens
“J.A.”: Our chick mortality
was high until we put a large
capon with the chickens. Next
morning, at an unholy hour, I
heard something like an air-raid
siren: found that the capon,
chickens cowering behind him,
had bailed-up in the corner an
astonished sparrowhawk.
With the capon’s help we exe-
cuted four sparrowhawks with-
out the loss of a chicken.
Sparrowhawks come so silently
and so swiftly that we seldom
saw one before.
The capon is now mothering
the chickens as well as any hen.
If they are trained by a hen,
capons make more reliable
mothers than the hens do, as
well as protecting the chickens
from birds-of-prey. This one
capon manages 100 chickens
comfortably—we use a brooder,
of course.
Couch for Turf
"Repens”: Despite some new-
comers in other species, which
have a place in special locations,
couch-grass remains the popu-
lar choice for lawns, bowling-
greens, tennis-courts and cricket-
fields. But nothing much has
been done to produce improved
strains.
Research in southern ILS.A.,
however, has evolved anew
hybrid strain, Tifiine, of fine
texture, superior to ordinary
couch, and particularly suitable
for golf-greens.. It is medium-
green in color, disease-resistant,
and sufficiently aggressive to
stand wear-and-tear.
Illustrated Hint
This dehorning-crush (as illus-
trated from the “Victorian Agri-
cultural Journal”) is designed to
give operator room to work.
Used on I. and J. N, Hurlston’s
farm at Maprigum (Vic.), it is
reported on in the “Journal” by
I. A. Frost, dairy-supervisor.
Size, about 10ft. 6in.; rail at
back stops cow backing out.
Head is lifted over sloping rail
at epd of race, at point most suit-
able to height of the cow, and
halter-rope made fast to the rail
by a couple of half-hitches.
Prevents the cow tossing her head
during operations. When the job
is finished the halter is eased *and
removed, and movable rail is
taken from its position against
the front posts, and the cow
walks out. Simple and effective.
' ’ \
No Cap
“D.N.S.”: A new method of
pressing wool without loose
woolpack caps has been tested
in sheds, under actual working
conditions, on 12 properties in
Young, Harden, Cootamundra
and Molong (all N.S.W.).
Bales were consigned to seven
brokers. They carried well by
road and rail, and kept their
shapes.
Demonstrations in Sydney and
Melbourne included baling and
dumping, full- and half-capping
after display for sale. One bale
was dropped down a vertical
chute seven floors without
damage to the pack. New
method allows bale to be kept
under pressure until it is closed
with Sin. overlaps and removes
need for a loose cap.
Essential feature is the use of
four long £in. steel skewers,
which are passed through the
pressed bale under the monkey
and over the wool before the
pressure is released. Press-
monkey js brought down on the
wool until the underside of the
plate is about below the
sewn seams. Skewers are passed
through the pack above the wool
in the channels under the
monkey-plate. Fasteners are
inserted in the underneath flaps
and the top flaps in order. The
skewers are then turned 90
degrees to break the bond be-
tween the wool and the skewers,
and withdrawn. The two centre
skewers are withdrawn before the
outer skewers to allow the wool
to rise evenly to the top of the
bale.
Estimated saving (if cap is
eliminated) £400,000 a year.
Method is the baby of the
Materials Handling branch
(Department of National De-
velopment). Graziers’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W., Farmers and
Settlers’ Association and N.S.W.
Railways Department are for it.
Among other advantages bales
are relatively uniform in length
and density.
Treatment of Wounds
“Veteran”: If the haemorrhage
is oozing, it indicates injury to
the capillaries (lesser
veins). If blood is
dark-red and flows
freely and quickly,
look for a cut vein;
apply a pad of cot-
ton-wool with firm
pressure, if neces-
sary by hand, where
it is impossible to
tie a bandage
securely. If the
blood spurts out
bright red, act
quickly. Twist a
tourniquet tightly
above the wound
and send for a vet.
A severed artery
can cause death.
Hands should always be clean
and sterile when treating or
dressing a wound. Not always
possible, of course, in an
emergency. But, whenever
possible, scrub-up like a surgeon.
Antiseptics on the wound itself
are often overdone —solutions
made too strong on the principle
that if a bit does good, a lot
must do more good. But the
danger is that not only the germ
but living tissue is killed, thus
delaying natural healing. Most
brands have instructions on the
label. Stick to them.
Clip hair surrounding the
wound with a sharp pair of
scissors or hair-clippers. Hold a
piece of cotton-wool over the
wound to keep hair out. Clean
the edges with cotton-wool
soaked in methylated spirit. Dust
liberally with powder consisting
of boracic acid (3 parts) and
slaked lime (1 part).
Clean dirt-encrusted wounds
with a warm saline solution (2
teaspoons salt to a gallon of
water). Irrigating with cold clean
water from a hose is often satis-
factory. If there is gross swelling
apply hot and cold fomentations.
Tincture of iodine is useful for
treating small cuts and abrasions,
but should be applied straight
after the injury. lodine is too
severe for large wounds. In all
ordinary injuries methylated
spirit and a dry dressing will give
better results. Never attempt to
stitch an injury unless a vet.
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
now—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
ẁ
HYGEIA DISSOLVHNATOR
dives you the advantages of sewerage nc
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ẃ
NO FLIES
’
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instai it I
The treated sterile sewerage l»
absorbed into the soil. ■
HYGEIA §AN TARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
‘DISTRIBUTORS: “
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House,
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia u launeuai-i
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Hygeia H
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
western Australia: r. p. mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street. Aucklano
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
A
ARTS
Circular Chart* for ail type*
ol Recording instruments
•or in|f class.o« Machusory
or Eqwipmant
HCTCR CHARTS a Specialty
JACfcOTsO , SILUV4N^.L&
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
£255
SIMPLEX
1500 WATT, 32 VOLT
HOME LIGHTING SET
This is a compact, heavy duty light-
ing plant, easy to install, trouble
free in operation, and with a long
life. Powered by a Simplex 4/5 H.P.
4 cycle, water-cooled engine.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home light-
ing or agricultural use •
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road,
Newtown, Sydney.
ẅ
LUMIirS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-land
/ Why not take advantage of \
\ lumley’s Free Advisory Service f
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS BE
263 ©eorge Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
ELS.B.IB
orders it (and then, in most cases,
he will do the job himself). Most
wounds heal better if left open.
In Brief
“North Queensland Register”
reports that N.T. cattlemen
expect their second drought in
three years —a misfortune that
hasn’t occurred before in this
century.
* * * *
Heavy fluke-infestation in the
Goulburn district, (N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture report).
* * * *
United States Information
Service reports usefulness of
nitrofurans —a large family—for
treatment of livestock. Has been
tried with mastitis in cattle, pul-
lorum and coccidiosis in fowls,
and necrotic enteritis in pigs.
The drugs first showed-up dur-
ing War 11, when one —nitro-
furazone —proved better than
antibiotics in clearing -up
wounds. One advantage is sus-
tained action: so far wogs don’t
seem to produce resistant strains
(as they do with antibiotics).
* * * *
Last year the U.K. bought
nearly £lOO-million-worth of
goods (mostly meat, maize and
other foodstuffs) from Argen-
tina'; sold, in return, only £14.6-
million-worth of manufactures
(“Financial Times” report).
* * * #
Adelong (N.S.W.), which has
produced some hefty humans,
among others George Tfeweeke
(rated as the best Rugby
League forward in the world)
and David Campbell (played
Rugby Union for England,
squadron-leader in the R.A.A.F.
and practising Bulletin poet),
has lately produced an impres-
sive bullock, bred by Arrogans’,
which scaled 13241 b, when
trimmed for export (carcasses
are more severely trimmed for
export than for home-markets)
and which brought £64 on the
hoof. Good country.
* * * *
Forty-four flock rams from
Buttabone, Station, Warren
(N.S.W.), went to Tasmania by
air recently (“Gilgandra Weekly”
report). Motor-transport to
Dubbo, then on by A.N.A. plane
It’s the third batch of woollies
from Buttabone to go by air. In
1949, incidentally, A.N.A. flew
four lots of Haddon Rig sheep to
the Sydney Show. The practice
seems to have developed since.
* ¥ * *
Vitamin B 2 (riboflavin) is now
being produced commercially by
a fermentation process in the
United States (U.S. Information
Service).
Experiments at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.)
indicate that liming (whatever
its other advantages, such as re-
ducing acidity,. and, in some
cases, making molybdenum
available) doesn’t increase v^heat
yields.
* * * *
A system of transporting
liquid-sugar in bulk has been
adopted by the California and
Hawaiian Sugar Corporation
(“Australian Sugar Journal”).
During peak months of,. July and
August the western U.S. can-
ning industry takes a lot of
sugar. Tank-trailers are loaded
and contents delivered quickly.
Two l,000„000gal. tanks are
used to build-up reserves, each
with 112 ultra-violet lamps
attached to prevent growth of
micro-organisms.
* * • *
L, Lewis, of the C.5.1.R.0.
division of chemical industry,
told the Science Congress in
Canberra that total of phos-
phates in Nauru, Ocean and
Christmas Islands was 112 mil-
lion tons: production last year
was 1,850,000 tons. Known re-
sources of phosphates were
large, with more than half in
the U.S.A. But the use of phos-
phate fertilisers will have to be
doubled, and doubled again, to
bring into use potentially pro-
ductive land.
» * * •
Something many an Australian
farmer has wondered about —the
effect of organic insecticides such
as D.D.T. on crops and soil —
has been put to exhaustive tests
in the United States. Plant
pathologist A. C. Foster reports
wide variations, according to
crop and soil. Toxic effects on
plants have persisted, in some
cases, for up to eight years. Dif-
ferent crops, and even varieties,
showed a wide range of sensi-
tivity and tolerance. In the case
of D.D.T,, for instance, Abruzzi-
rye and Stringless Black Valen-
tine bean were highly sensitive.
Wheat and maize varieties tested
were tolerant.
* * * *
Also from the U.S.: A new
method of utilising waste from
fruit-canneries as stock-feed.
Peels, cores, trimmings, decayed
fruit and culls are treated to
produce two products, molasses
and dried pulp.
* * * *
Tonnage of apricots harvested
in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area this season was slightly
above estimate (N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture).
* * * *
Australian Poll Shorthorns
are being used in Kenya to up-
grade native cattle (Garner Mac-
Kinnon, Poll Shorthorn Society).
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: Don’t let
lambs graze on rape until leaves
show a purplish tinge. Unripe
rape is likely to scald. Best to
graze rape in breaks which last
the lambs a week. Best lamb-
fattening proposition is thou-
sand-headed kale, but because
of its unpalatability it must be
fed in small breaks and grazed
lightly before lambs are moved
on to the next break. Treated
in this manner kale will last
into the autumn and winter.
“Springvale”: Don’t confuse
boils on teats with cow-pox.
Boils are usually caused by
dirty teats and milking with
'dirty hands. Wash teats before
and after milking with red solu-
tion of permanganate of potash.
Suitable treatment for boils is
iodine ointment dabbed on
affected areas after washing and
drying udders following every
milking. And keep those hands
clean.
“Ann”: Fowlhouses should be
regularly examined for mites, as
the pests only take 10 to 12 days
to hatch. Deposits of fine silver-
like dust in cracks indicate
infestation. Red-mites, which
are rarely seen during the day,
are light-grey in color and do
not become red until gorged on
the blood of fowls. Saturation
of all wood with two-parts
sump-oil and one-part liquid
sheep-dip is an effective treat-
ment.
“Big Billy” t Skim-milk is
high in protein. With chickens
it can be used to mix the mash
or as a drink. For the growing-
period skim-milk will replace
five per cent, buttermilk-powder
used in the mash when skim-
milk isn’t available. Meatmeal
can be reduced up to 50 per
cent, when the milk is used iu
the mash. This means that fib.
to fib. of present-day meatmeal
would be quite sufficient for 100
birds daily receiving a mash
mixed with skim-milk. Use
sufficient to mix the mash
about half a gallon for 100
hens. .
“Nels”: Don’t ruin paint-
brushes by standing them in a
tin of cleaner-fluid, with resultant
splaying of the bristles. Insert
a small screw or eyelet in the
side of the wood and hang the
brush on the side of the tin so
that the bristles are clear of the
bottom. Brushes may be hung
on tpe outside to drain in the
j
“A.M.N.”: Two simple
methods may be used to calculate
the approximate capacity of
circular water - tanks: (1)
Multiply the circumference by
itself and the result by half the
height. Example: Tank 20ft, in
circumference and 6ft. high.
Multiply 20 x 20 x 3 = 12,000
gallons. (2) Multiply the
diameter by itself and the result
by five times the height: tank
diameter 6ft., height 6ft.
Multiply 6 x 6 x 30 = 1080
gallons.
“Ninety-nine”: Pigs are often
carriers of leptospirosis, a
disease which has caused the
death of many calves in dairy-
herds in practically all dairying
districts. Infected pigs usually
show no signs of sickness, but
they pass enormous numbers of
the organism in the urine for a
year or more. The first step in
preventing leptospirosis among
cattle, therefore, is to protect
them from the cause.’ Another
reason why drainage should be
planned carefully.
“Cam”: Zinc deficiency in
citrus is indicated by yellow
leaf-mottling and the develop-
ment of small, obviously
abnormal, leaves, especially in
terminal growth. Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture advises
using a leaf-spray of 11b. zinc-
sulphate (not zinc-oxide, which
can cause leaf-fail) and
slaked-lime in Bgals. of water.
Spray just prior to commence-
ment of spring growth.
“My”: Continuous hot
weather, poor-quality feed and
can affect fertility. Put
rams in shady, well-grassed pad-
docks in summer, and, if grass
is dry, feed some lucerne-hay or
fish-liver-oil for two or three
months before mating. No ram
should be mated within two
months of having been through
an arsenical dip or a footbath,
or having had footrot, flystrike
or acute abscess.
‘*Mr.”: Ball-§mut caused, re-
jection of a lot of Vic. Mallee
and Wimmera wheat last sea-
son —something that needn t
have happened if D. of A.
recommendations had been fol-
lowed. So they’re worth repeat-
ing: (1) Discard for seed all
wheat known to be affected by
ball-smut; (2) pickle all seed
with lioz. to 2oz. of pickling-
powder per bushel (mercury
and the new hexachlorobenzene
are considered more effective
than copper); (3) thoroughly
pickle the seed, slowing down
operations to ensure that each
grain is coated with pbwder.
“Con”: Prevent disintegra-
tion in concrete caused by milk-
and food-acids by spraying the
freshly-laid flooring as it is set-
ting with silicate-of-soda (water-
glass). Mix Igal. of silicate-of-
soda in 4gals. water and apply
the first coat as the concrete is
beginning to set. Repeat twice
at intervals of 24 hours.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The four and a half months of a spotless sun was
broken on March 15 by the sudden appearance of a double
magnetic sunspot group. Which explains the recent heat-
wave of moderate intensity.
It is, at time of writing, about to reach its normally
active position; which should accelerate a moderate dis-
turbance, with light to moderate rain, until early April.
Some falls should be fairly heavy, though floods are not
likely. Following this there should be a cold spell about
the middle of April, and then, in all but the extreme
southern areas of the continent, the last general rain prior
to the dry, cold winter which is the first character of the
three-years test. I would like this three-years test kept in
mind, since it is, in a sense, a major test of the New
Meteorology.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Arbitration
Dr. Evatt should ask Lord Bruce
for some hard-earned advice on the sub-
ject of the Arbitration Court and politics.
In a lifetime about the fringe of politics,
one of my most vivid memories is of an
evening in the Prime Minister’s office in
the Treasury Gardens, Melbourne, in
October, 1929, on the day Australia
voted in an election fought on the arbi-
tration issue.
Bruce, Latham and Gullett were there
with their wives; there was practically
nobody else, most of the hangers-on
being downtown at the post-office. Every
now and then a messenger with a suit-
ably solemn face would come in to
chalk-up a new result, those being, of
course, pre-broadcasting days. There was
drama in the air as Bruce thus saw his
own seat of Flinders disown him, and his
Government go down the drain—to leave
Scullin, with a then-record •majority, to
face, and flounder in, the far greater
problem of world-depression which
began its march of misery in Wall-street
a few days later.
But there was also a major political
lesson. Australians don’t like any attempt
to tamper with arbitration, and they won’t
endorse for a moment any suggestion of
political control of a system which, by
honest, independent and skilled judgment,
based on evidence fairly heard, has given
both workers and bosses so much of real
value over the years.
I don’t remember the “senior Labor
officials now reported as so determined
on review (whatever that means) raising
any howl when the basic wage was upped
suddenly by a quid-a-week not so long
agb ; and although I think the court, like
most human institutions, has made some
mistakes, I’d rather trust it to fix my
wages—and margins—than either one
side or the other in Federal Parliament
—ln the ACT (A.C.T.),
%
Alexander Harris and Samuel Sidney
It is my belief that the evidence
against John Lang’s having had any-
thing to do with Settlers and Convicts
(Red Page, 17/2/’54) outweighs the
argument Mr. Earnshaw puts forward.
Between 1849 and 1852 Harris sold
the copyright of his Autobiography,
published by Smith Elder. Would Lang
do this at the outset of his career, with
20 years of writing ahead of him and
10 or more books to come? Would
Lang adopt one pseudonym on top of
another and finally abandon both?
Would Harris’s books die and Lang
remain unconnected with them during a
long and active subsequent literary life?
Would Dr. Leif child accept Harris’s
Autobiography (that of a middle-aged
Englishman returned from the Colony)
as the truthful record of a pious man if
Lang (an expatriate Australian then in
India) were the author?
In the Autobiography the author avers
that he was born in England, went up
to London at the age of seven or eight,
emigrated to the Colony as a young man
and returned to England in the 1840’s.
Do those leading features of his life fit
John Lang?
What Mr. Earnshaw calls “the pic-
turesque slang of the true' currency lad”
is in reality the flash language of the
family, as Harris says. Our early slang
was merely English prison cant, the
lingua franca of the colony.
Has Mr. Earnshaw any evidence other
than supposition that the name Alexan-
der Harris is to be derived from a union
between John Lang’s mother and a
colonial fence ? How would he account
for the several references to Mr. Harris
made by the various emigrant writers in
England in 1847-52 as if he were a per-
son whose activities were known to
them?
A few coincidences may not be taken
as proof of identity. If they could we
could name a dozen individuals for
whom a case might be made out.
It is quite wrong to think that a con-
vict as such could not be trained in the
law, even if the case applied here.
The Mr. Romer of Botany Bay (Lang’s
partner) cannot be the R of Settlers
and Convicts (Harris’s mate). Harris, as
narrator, marries R -’s sister M
in Australia. Tins certainly did not hold
for Lang, who brought his wife back
from England with him. When Lang
left for India in 1842 he took his chil-
dren with him. When Alexander Harris,
as narrator, quitted the Colony for Eng-
land he left his sons behind.
John Lang’s Romer “had formerly
held an ensign’s commission in the 73rd
Regiment.... Everyone called him Cap-
tain Romer.” He had come from Eng-
land with his regiment years before and
married a currency lass. He had “20
convict servants.” He was “the father
of seven sons and four daughters.”
Harris’s R is “young R ” ; “an
Australian” ; “one of his parents came
free to the Colony, the other had been a
prisoner”; he has an eldest brother
“nearly 20 years older.”
Thus Lang’s Romer is a middle-aged
immigrant military paterfamilias;
Harris’s R is a youthful native Aus-
tralian bachelor. If these two characters
can be reconciled as being one and the
same there may be something in Mr.
Earnshaw’s contentions.
Even then we should still have to sur-
mount the hurdle of Lang’s preface to
Botany Bay: “the names, dates and
localities have been so altered that they
[his stories] form merely a work of
fiction.”
In addition, to be consistent, Mr. Earn-
shaw would have to allow that in or
about 1827 John Lang, at the age of IG,
became the confidant of a consumptive
prostitute, as Harris represents himself
to have been.
I suspect that the author of Settlers
and Convicts, The Emigrant Family and
the Guide to Port Stephens was a ghostly
character of the tribe of that literary
chameleon, Mr. Samuel Solomon, alias
Sidney, alias “A Bushman,” alias God
’knows what (Alexander Harris’s recipro-
cating back-slapper).'
Briefly, the facts of Sidney’s associa-
tion with Harris are these.
Alexander Harris’s Guide to Port
Stephens (a propaganda book commis-
sioned by the A.A. Company) was pub-
lished in September, 1849. Between*
April, 1849, and July, 1849, Samuel
Sidney, in his “Emigrant’s Journal” (a
weekly publication), made 28 references
either to “the forthcoming Guide to Port
Stephens” or to Alexander Harris, mainly
in replies to questions purporting to come
from intending emigrants. Sidney was
perfectly familiar with" the progress of
the book through the press from week to
week. Three months before it was pub-
lished he ran 15 pages of it verbatim in
his magazine, using, of necessity, either
the manuscript or the galley-proofs, and
heading it “from the forthcoming Guidd
to Port Stephens.” He knew what revi-
sions in the manuscript and proofs were
necessary to make it thoroughly efficient
and complete.”
The Guide actually contains material
“I'd better have her welded—she wanders a bit.”
that belonged personally to Samuel Sid-
ney and a map from the same plate as he
had used months earlier in his “Journal.”
When Sidney published a review of the
Guide in October, 1849, he preferred
taking extracts to making what he called
“the sham of a criticism.”
Samuel Sidney’s books and Alexander
Harris’s are notoriously fulsome towards
each other, although hostile to others in
the same field.
Finally, Samuel Sidney, claimed per-
sonal acquaintance with Alexander
Harris, and Alice Mann wrote of him
as if he were a real person known to her.
Whoever was commissioned by the
"Just bunk in any old corner.”
A.A. Company to write the Guide to
Port Stephens was in all probability the
author of Settlers and Convicts. The
company’s records will reveal his identity.
—Colin Roderick (N.S,W.).
Canada
In B. 9/12/’53 it was stated, on the
authority of Eric Partridge, that Canadian
slang is 80 per cent. American with the
remainder rather more English than
native-Canadian. It was further remarked
that “as the Canadian-French [language]
is dying out its influence is waning.”
That last is a surprising statement.
When the British conquered Canada, in
1760, there were approximately 60,000
French living in Canada. Today there
are about 4,000,000. Montreal is about
80 per cent. French-speaking, and Quebec
about 90 per cent., although many know
and are familiar with both languages.
The south shore of the St. Lawrence
River from Montreal east, which was
settled by either British soldiers discharged
in Canada or United Empire Loyalists
who had been expelled from the United
States when the Republic was formed and
who were almost entirely English-speaking
a century ago, is now almost entirely
French.
All this has a most profound effect on
Canadian politics and on Canadian life in
general.— G. A. Harrap, Toronto, On-
tario, Canada.
Car-insurance
Someone should have told “Mero” (B.
3/3 / ’54) about the “no-claim” bonus on
car-insurance policies. Obviously his
gross premium is £l3 17s. 6d. In 1952,
ho claim having been lodged in the
preceding year, it was reduced to
£ll ss. 6d. by deduction of a bonus of
20 per cent.
In 1953 “M.” forfeited this bonus as
a result of his claim for £2.
Never claim on your insurance com-
pany until you have ascertained whether
the cost of repairs exceeds the amount of
your “no-claim” bonus. This scheme
shelters companies from the expenses of
handling a host of petty claims, and thus
enables them to keep their premiums
lower.
Incidentally, if you are enough of a
mechafiic to handle anything but major
repairs, you can save money on your
insurance by accepting some of the risk
yourself—from £5-worth. upward.—
Hist (N.S.W.).
Camping Spots
A good many travellers strike the
trouble mentioned by “Billy T.” (B.
24/2/’54) —they drive for miles in a vain
search for a camping-site. They see
picturesque lagoons or creeks, close to the
road, with everything that could be
desired in the way of shade, shelter and
firewood, but there’s a fence in the way.
Yet there’s often nothing to prevent
you camping on that fenced-off area
except bluff on the part of the one claim-
ing to own it. When the country was
first surveyed ample provision was made
for reserves. With the coming of motor-
transport, these reserves—set aside for
drovers, teamsters and travellers generally
—fell into disuse.
Owners of adjoining properties then
secured grazing rights to the reserves.
Naturally, they had to fence them to
ke£p in their stock, but they were sup-
posed to put in gates so any traveller
in need of a camping-spot could gain
access to what is still Crown land.
Gradually, as the original gates or wire
panels fell into disrepcfir, the openings
were fenced across because nobody used
them.
Anyone who lakes the trouble to call
at the nearest Shire Council can see the
plan of the district with all the reserve*
marked plainly on it with the broad arrow
Once you know where they are, it’s only
a matter of asking the lessee of any one
of them to show you how to gain access
to the reserve he has fenced off.
But it’s up to everyone to play fair
about it. The fact that it is Crown lane
doesn’t free you from the responsibility
of obeying the laws governing the light-
ing of fires in the open, nor does it entitle
you to leave the spot littered with old
paper, tins and broken bottles, —
Bogaduck (S.A.),
Road-trains
Road cattle-trains consisting of linked,
20ft.-by-10ft., double-decker trucks (B.
3/3/’54) might present few “engineering
or traction difficulties,” but the over-
whelming problem would be the provision
of adequate roads.
We already have poor arterial highways
in Australia; anything larger than the
present semi-trailer would soon be their
finish.
Reports from the U.S.A., home of the
“turnpikes,” suggest that the huge mon-
sters of the road which actively compete
with the railways of that country are
rapidly smashing the concrete strips and
their extensive foundations.
An ordinary semi-trailer carrying a
payload, of ten tons must exert a stress
of about a ton-and-a-half per wheel,-no
small weight on any road. Every time
one of those wheels hits a tiny rut it
gouges out a bit more bitumen and earth,
until the road is in a deplorable state.
Widen.the track to 10ft. and the edges
become even more churned-up by pass-
ing traffic, which would have to give way
completely to these monsters; unless the
present roads were completely recon-
structed and widened.
That would, of course, be a colossal
task. The initial cost of such roads, with
adequate foundations and side-aprons to
prevent crumbling, might even approach
that of a railway-track—they would have
to be of concrete some inches thick to
withstand the tremendous stresses. And
consider the maintenance costs!
As for capacity, suppose that one
driver of such a train could safely control
six trailers from his prime-mover; the
total capacity would then equal that of six
cattle-trucks on a 3ft. 6in. railway. That’s
not much. And the cost of maintaining
such road-trains—mechanical, tyres and
so on—would be staggering. The extra
manpower alone would make it a pricey
business.
Enormous though the capital costs may
be, the only real solution to the transport
difficulties of the cattle country is suffi-
cient rail facilities —assisted by road
transport from the cattle-stations, by air-
craft (as in the case of one successful
enterprise), and, in the long run, by the
drover and his dogs. — Karrimba (Vic.).


Royal Commissions
Nobody except a politician is likely to
deny that there are plenty of things going
on in this country which call for inquiry.
But aren’t we overdoing the demand for
royal commissions?
This form of inquiry should surely be
kept for when there is an urgent need
for investigation and suggested remedial
actions, and when results cannot be
achieved in other ways.
In straight-out law-breaking, whether
bribery, slackness or incompetence has
caused the trouble, it is surely only a
matter of appropriate charges being laid
and the issue being thrashed-out in a
court of law.
If public administration is morally bad
but legally sound, then it behoves our
Parliaments to amend the law. If royal
commissions are set-up to investigate
every case of maladministration, or every
anomaly that causes action detrimental
to the public, less and less notice will be
taken of their proceedings and recom-
mendations, and they will simply provide
convenient excuses for Governments to
avoid taking firm, immediate action when
it is needed. —Peers (Tas,).
Trams v. Buses
Sydney traffic authorities have appar-
ently fallen finally for the doubtful advice
to scrap trams in favor of buses. The
wisdom of this move still is arguable
technically—l understand Melbourne is
extending its tram system—and in any
case its implementation should be resisted
and delayed in every possible way in
Sydney’s crowded suburbs.
Old-fashioned as are many Sydney
trams, they are necessary if the majority
of people who live in middle-of-the-route
localities are to have dependable trans-
port. Buses may be convenient enough
for people who can board them at ter-
mini, but they mean weary waiting, loss
of time and money and general exaspera-
tion for would-be passengers along the
run.
The old tram does stop where indicated,
and it can always squeeze in a couple
more bodies.
But with the bus, once Bill the driver
and/or Shirley the conductress decide
they have enough aboard or want to get
back to the depot in a hurry, they ignore
stops and give the high sign of derision
to waiting cash-customers. And, failing
effective control of the crews or a change
for the better in their nature, what's to
stop them?
Better keep as many trams as we can.
—H.K.W. (N.S.W.).
Canberra Night-life
The public’s limited patronage of
extended drinking-hours during the Royal
visit to Canberra is not surprising (B,
10/3/ ’54).
A while ago it was generally held around
Canberra that the lack of a good licensed
restaurant was doing much to lower the
embryo city’s reputation. It was con-
sidered that the many visitors, often
accustomed to dining in city nighteries,
would take more kindly to the place
were they able to dine and wine at a suit-
able establishment.
A licence was granted to a good style
of restaurant to serve liquor with meals
after normal hotel trading-hours. There
was, as well, a dance-floor and an
orchestra and the general conduct was
on an excellent plane.
After an initial burst of enthusiasm it
was fairly obvious that business had be-
come considerably quieter. It was then
possible to see only half-a-dozen couples
dining on an ordinary week night. The
bahd was relegated to one or two nights
a week.
Main support for the venture seemed to
come from the locals, but their total is
less than 30,000, a large percentage of
whom are not interested in dining out at
all. The anticipated demand from Can-
berra’s fluctuating international colony
apparently did not materialise to the
extent hoped for. True, various recep-
tions were —and still are—held there
under very pleasant surroundings, but the
potential customers seem to prefer enter-
tainment under their own adequate roofs.
As for tourists, the cold nights of the
" Damn' disgrace, I call it. Lowers the whole tone of the street."
highlands arc not conducive to junketings
outside the precincts of the hotels.
Contrary to general opinion, the
national capital is not a rich city in the
sense that the big cities are. The majority
of the residents are on steady, though not
spectacular, wages, which do not run to
night-clubs and such frivolities. As any-
where else, food, clothes and the rest
run away with the cash. Average enter-
tainment is dress-circle or stalls at the
local picture-shows.
Given extended licensing-hours, Can-
berra people would probably behave no
differently from any other section of the
community placed in a similar position.
Their drinking, like that of almost every-
one else, is strictly limited by the capacity
of their pockets.—B. K. G. (Vic.).
Coastal Shipping
Settlers along the coast of N. S, Wales
are complaining because they have prac-
tically lost their shipping service, and,
of course, they blame the Government.
But what about the settlers themselves?
Not so many years ago there was an
excellent passenger service to both the
North Coast and South Coast; indeed, it
was a delightful experience to travel from
Eden to Sydney in the old s.s, Merimbula
or s.s. Eden. There were even better-
fitted passenger steamers serving the
North Coast.
With the coming of fast cars, improved
roads and railways, the settlers discovered
that they could get to and from Sydney
much faster than by steamer. So the
shipping companies were obliged to dis-
continue passenger services and concen-
trate on cargo. For many years they
continued to give good service, but the
settlers gradually took to sending their
goods by road and rail. Towards the end
the steamers were merely something to
fall back on when a faster service was
not available.
Despite the keen competition from road
and rail, the shipping companies could
run at a profit if the coastal settlers pat-
ronised them as they did in the days when
the coastal ships pioneered transport. —
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Sandalwood
Sandalwood (B. 10/3/’54) was one of
Westralia’s earliest exports, the first item
of the State’s immense timber resources to
gain full recognition abroad. Half-a-mil-
lion tons have been worth five million
pounds so far.
Growing plentifully east of the Darling
Ranges in the early days, it fell by the
ton as the pioneers hacked out their foot-
holds. The farmers carted it into money-
starved Perth and bartered it for goods.
In 1845 a test-consignment of four tons
sent abroad was snapped up, orders for
more creating such a demand that sandal-
wood-cutting became one of the battling
colony’s major occupations.
Two years later, a track with the won-
derful name of The Sandalwood Road
was cut east out of Bunbury through the
virgin jarrah forest. The sandalwooders
pioneered new tracks into the unknown
interior years ahead of the sheepman,
farmer and geologist.
In 1875 the trade reached a roaring
peak, with the timber exhausted all over
the settled parts of the State, the cutters
well out towards the future goldfields, and
the Government apparently not yet aware
that the supply was not unlimited.
Unfortunately, W.A. sandalwood, un-
like the Indian species, does not sucker
easily from the root; it normally has to
reproduce from seed, and it was not until
1895 that the first attempt at regeneration
was made. The Forestry Department
cleared an area of typical sandalwood
country near Pingelly and planted it with
nuts, which sprouted, grew for a season
and died.
When, later, nuts sown in similar but
uncleared country grew into fine trees,
what had long been suspected became
fairly obvious —the tree was a parasite.
By the preliminary clearing of the nursery
the department had deprived the sandal-
wood of the hosts on which it battened
for its life.
About 30 years ago W-A. Government
Botanist D. A. Herbert published the
results of his researches into the r;oot-
parasitism of W.A. Santalacece, showing
that most species of five genera of the
family in Australia are root-parasites.
That is not altogether surprising, since
Santalacece are very near relatives of
Soranthacece, which include the well-
known parasite the Christmas-tree of
W.A., as well as all the species of
mistletoe.
Of the Santalacece family, the Fusanus
genus grows only in Australia and Maori-
land; F. spicatus is the W.A., or Swan
River, sandalwood (originally placed in
the genus Santalum as S. cygnorum),
while the other two quandongs are F.
accuminatus and F. persicarium — F.
accum. having no fragrance, but being
similar enough to F. spicatus in appear-
ance to permit its free use as an adulterant
by the unscrupulous.
Like the true, original sandalwood
(S. album, of India), F. spicatus is an
obligate parasite—i.e., its parasitism is
essential to its life and growth; but, un-
like many parasites, it is not fussy about
its-host, the roots of nearly 100 widely
different tree species being known to have
provided it with sustenance. — Edx
(Vic.).
The 40-hour Week
“Benbow’s” sneer (B. 3/3/’54) at the
Australian way-of-life and the 40-hour
week is a common one. Yet our five-day
40-hour week doesn’t prevent us from:
Turning on the electric-light or the
stove or the radiator any time we wish.
Travelling by tram, bus, train, plane or
taxi seven days a week.
Getting medical attention at any hour
of the day, or night.
Collecting milk from the doorstep
every morning
Reading a newspaper every day.
Having our meals cooked, beds made,
mending done, houses cleaned on Sun-
day as well as Monday, Tuesday, etc.
Forty hours a week is enough to work
for a living. Would “B.” perhaps prefer
to go back to 10 hours a day with a half-
day off on Sunday? I remember when
the five-day week was introduced. The
big industrial show which employed me
couldn’t possibly carry on if the day-
workers didn’t work on Saturday morn-
ing. Since then they’ve spent £3,000,000
on expansion, employ a thousand more
workers and have paid record dividends.
I laugh, wryly, when people talk about
“educating the masses for leisure.” I work
about 35 hours a week, yet I can’t find
time for the jobs I must do round the
house and garden, or for my hobbies.
—Taurus (Tas.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 271
Across
I—Sedate fellow finds the opposing
teams spotless. (10)
s—Row with a film producer. (4)
9 You are to write a line in mid-
March. (3)
10 — Miss Palmer, actress, placed Mr.
Craig, cricketer, within the
minute. (11)
12— Sea-girt territory is tenanted. (5)
13— Copper on the boundary makes
none fry up the price. (9)
14— It shuts up the comic business.
(3)
15 — Body registers a change in the
score. (5)
16— Boy comes back with story-
writing Stivens. (3)
18. Affirmative. (3)
20—Supreme Queen who has spots?
(5)
22 — Eggs on this provocation to a
drama critic? (3)
23 Jewellery manacles two rents.
(9)
24 — Reed of many a fine film song for
December. (5)
25 Ship the trey to teacher. (5-6)
26 Label. (3)
27 Blubber by what method before
50? (4)
28 —Bouncer bowler who ought to be
disqualified from bowling, and
has been disqualified from bat-
ting. (7-3)
Down
1 — Thus going on to a majestic finish
in a saturating manner. (9)
2 Reserve of unfilled orders in a
footballer’s diary what takes a
long time to bum? (7)
3 Get another tenant about grounds
for another service. (5)
4 He appreciates all the good things
in the Eire Cup. (7)
6 Crooked dealing was lined up.
(7)
7 Twisted relations go to Kentucky.
(5) . ,
8— A nightcap problem who indulges
in hypotheses? (8)
11 —He’s so bad that he’s in for good.
(5) .
15—Bus caught by the favorite editor
is hauled over the coals. (8)
17 —Illumination beat a predicament.
(9)
19 — Bird to throw punches and
squabble. (7)
20 — Laundry where John lost his
crown muscle after incineration.
(3, 4)
21 — Post Office to sit, or to lay down
something as true. (5)
22 — Nelson, hail to proportion! (7)
23 — Keep house like the single quan-
tity. (5)
24 — Malediction with nothing added
makes the course. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 270


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
'fiaa entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
March
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
Vast Waste-Lands Will Now Become
Thriving Grazing
Territory...
The photo shows typical country found within the “Ninety Mile Desert”
area. The country varies in the type and extent of its vegetation but in
general vegetation is poor. Mallee-brush and heath scrub predominate.
The soil is sandy and the topography is characterised by undulating
plains and sand-dunes. Low fertility has been the obstacle to develop-
ment, but the addition of trace elements (copper, zinc, phosphorus and
nitrogen) has been proved to restore fertility.
A spectacular development of sandy desert waste land sprawling from
South Australia across the border into Victoria has been embarked upon
by one of Australia’s foremost Life Assurance institutions.
Comprising portion of South Australia’s “Ninety Mile Desert” and the
“Big Desert” in Victoria, the areas at present under lease total nearly
three-quarters of a million acres—•though it is certain that not all of this
land will prove suitable for settlement.
The need for every available acre
of land to produce its maximum
of food has never been so clearly
recognised as now. If Australia is
to meet the increasing food de-
pand of her own growing popula-
tion, more pf her resources must
be placed at the disposal of the
Primary Industries.
In place of almost worthless scrub,
capable of supporting for a limited
period perhaps one sheep to 20
acres, the improved pasture lands
are suited to fat-lamb raising, wool-
growing, and beef production.
Returns have steadily improved as
soil fertility is built up and ex-
perience gained.
The scheme is of a co-operative
nature, and the hand-picked
workers are given an opportunity
of purchasing a complete farm in
the area opened up after each of
them has completed not less than
5 years of employment, which is
the average time it takes to de-
velop an area of virgin scrub to
the stage at which it is ready for
allotment.
The development depends firstly
upon the application of trace ele-
ments (mainly zinc and copper)
which are lacking in the soil, and
these, together with superphos-
phate dressing, are applied after
each area has been cleared and a
suitable seed-bed established.
Secondly, it depends upon the
utilization of the underground
water, which is available at depths
ranging from as little as 10 feet
down to 180 feet.
The new mass-clearing method
whereby a heavy ship’s anchor-
chain, strung between two Heavy-
Duty Trkctors, is dragged across
the ground, has proved highly
successful.
Scientific research has paved the
way for this great Land Develop-
ment Scheme. The correct
manurial treatments and selection
of the best pasture plants for the
territory was entrusted to them.
The results already evident are
testimony to the value of this
careful scientific approach to the
problems encountered.
Parallel with scientific research,
development of new, cheaper
methods of applying Chemical
Weedkillers, pest-exterminators,
and fertilizers has been carried on
by the leading manufacturers of
machinery for the Primary Indus-
tries.
For example, the new, and revo-
lutionary SELECTIVE HOR-
MONE SPRAYS can be most
effectively applied by the use of
MOFFAT - VIRTUE’S BOOM
SPRAY EQUIPMENT.
Fitted with specially-designed fan-
type nozzles, which deliver the
spray at between 1 00 and 1 20 lbs.
per square inch, the Boom Spray
should be fixed on to truck, trailer
or tractor. As much as 120 acres
can be effectively sprayed in one
day (at about 4 m.p.h.).
BOOM-SPRAY EQUIPMENT BEATS WEEDS AND PESTS
As well as proving the effective
and economical method of apply-
ing the new Hormone sprays to
crops and pastures, Moffat-Virtue
BOOM SPRAY equipment has
been an invaluable weapon in the
fight against the grasshopper
plagues.
Designed and built by Moffat-
Virtue engineers, the MOFFAT-
VIRTUE Boom Spray Equipment,
which operates in conjunction with
the famous M.V. Roller Spray
Plant, is 30ft. long, fitted with 19
special fan-type spray-nozzles.
These are overhead-mounted, to
prevent waste of valuable weedi-
cides, and to eliminate danger of
damage to the nozzles. Both arms
of the boom swing back at right
angles, and may be locked in that
position. Special gravity-hinges
allow each side to yield automati-
cally to obstructions, and to swing
back to the operating position
when clear.
Protective skids are attached to
each end, and the whole unit is
ruggedly constructed for trouble-
free operation.
HIGH PRESSURE, LOW VOLUME FOR
MAXIMUM KILL, PLUS ECONOMY...
The combination of high pressure and low volume which is the exclusive feature of MOFFAT-
VIRTUE ROLLER-SPRAY means that whilst full penetration is obtained, drift and other wastage
is avoided by low-volume use of the spraying fluid.
The M.V. Roller Spray Plant has been found to be the ideal unit for powering the Boom Spray,
and the former can be used independently for spot spraying by using a 60ft. hose assembly. The
Roller Spray can be adjusted to give a complete range of pressures up to 300 lbs. per square inch
without fluctuations. The unit was used exclusively by the Department of Agriculture for the
eradication of the Argentine Ant (both in N.S.W, and in West Australia).
Further particulars of the MOFFAT-VIRTUE ROLLER SPRAY PLANT and M.V. Boom Spray
Equipment may be obtained from any of the Interstate Distributors listed at the foot of this page.
