

ƒ
f f
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“THE FIGHT,” by JOHN FOUNTAIN PAGE 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3891
Wecfetesday, September 8, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
HISTORY HAS PARADED BELOW
BRISTOL’S ABBEY GATEWAY
THE great seaport of Bristol on the River
Avon had its early beginnings in the days
of the Roman occupation of Britain. About
a.d. 50 the Roman general, Scapula, established
a fortification there and recent excavations
have revealed the foundations of Roman
dwellings.
In Anglo-Saxon times, and particularly during
the reign of Ethelred the Unready (978-1016),
the settlement at Bristol was an important
trading centre. From the Norman Conquest
in 1066 to the Tudor period Bristol grew
rapidly in wealth and importance, for it was
the gateway through which passed the commerce
of the western midlands. Her ships were trading
with Iceland, Ireland, Gascony, Portugal, Spain
and down the African coasts.
It was from Bristol that John Cabot sailed
in 1497 on a voyage which led to the discovery
of the northern half of the New World. When
England’s period of overseas expansion began,
Bristol was well to the fore and various expedi-
tions, during the reign of Elizabeth I, sailed
from the Avon to prey upon the Spaniards, to
search for gold and to deyelop trade.
In the neighbourhood of the old city quays
can still be seen ancient taverns which were
the haunt of pirates. One of the most famous
is the Llandoger Trow, which is said to be the
inn which is mentioned at the beginning of
R. L. Stevenson’s “Treasure Island,” and the
one in which Defoe found the character for
“Robinson Crusoe.”
In the centuries of unfolding history the
church has played an important part in the
life of Bristol. St. Mary Redcliffe Church was
described by the first Queen Elizabeth as “the
fairest and the most famous parish church in
all my kingdom.” Here, too, is a Cathedral
which was originally the church of a monastery
of St. Augustine canons, founded in 1140. The
oldest remaining portion of this ancient monas-
tery incorporated in the Cathedral is the Chapter
House, which is considered by many to be the
most beautiful Norman room in Europe.
Nearby is the Elder Lady Chapel, built in
1216, and from which the 8.8. C. broadcast
its daily service during the Second World War.
Near the west epd of the Cathedral is St.
Augustine’s Abbey Gateway, shown in the
accompanying illustration, which is of particular
interest. The finely moulded arch is late Norman
in style and the imposing Gatehouse above it
dates from the 15th and 16th centuries. This
magnificent gateway was the main entrance to
the monastery, and must have witnessed many
stirring scenes during its long history, including
the Reform Riots of 1831, when the Bishop’s
Palace was burned down.


BOOKSEARCHING
is our business. We locate new or
out-of-print books in any language.
Send to us for that book you can’t
find ; we get results.
THE WAKELYS
C.P.O. Box 2656, Auckland. C. 1.. N.Z.
The Red Page
EIGHTY-NINE
With the help of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, Angus and Robertson
have made almost as beautiful a book as
you could imagine of Fourteen Men, the
new poems of Mary Gilmore, and even
managed to get it out in time for her
89th birthday.
What a remarkable thing it is to find,
in the lavender scent of a style formed
at the time of Gosse, a poem about four-
teen lynched Chinamen she passed on the
goldfields when she was twelve years
old: —
Fourteen men.
And each hung down
Straight as a log
From his toes to his crown....
or in “The Pear Tree,” the song of a
girl who hanged herself for love, an Aus-
tralian cousin of Hardy’s countryfolk; —
Was never a bird so white,
But its head bends over,
There, where it hangs in the tree.
Dead for a lover....
and to realise that these have been written
in the last ten years or so! With these
there are a great many tiny pieces of
the stabbing simplicity that marked the
later style of Yeats; —
He who rides the ass of faith
Rides in easy travel ;
He who walks on his two feet
Finds the road is gravel.
Often these rise above the brilliance
of gnomic profundity into subtle and
essentially feminine insight; —
If we could only speak! Or if
We could but let each other know
Out of what rich and steadfast deeps
The living tides of friendship flow!
Ever the heart essays, the lips
Refuse —silent lest some word rend
The veil long usage held, and we.
Fearing the lover, lose the friend.
But the finest thing in the book, which
one hardly likes to quote, is one which
only so old a poet could write, and pos-
sibly the only thing of its kind in the
language: —
His once thick hair is thin;
At times I think his sight
Flickers, a little.
In the light.
His teeth are long, long gone,
Being buried in
The dentist’s and
The dustman’s bin.
His hearing is a trifle slow;
And sometimes when
A quick thought springs
It goes again.
Yet he was once
My little boy
You can't help thinking how fortunate
it is that so unique a poem, a poem only
one in a million women who might live
long enough would retain the will and
technique to write, should have been done
so perfectly, in form and style so con-
temporary as to stand with the best
work of Ezra Pound in the genre.
And indeed, wherever you turn in these
ninety or so packed pages, you find a
mind clear and active about the present
and a memory pellucid about the past
working with an unfaltering technique on
sonnets, an In Memoriam to “The Mas-
ter”—William Morris Hughes—a poem
on her childhood for A. H. Chisholm, a
sequence on “The Atomic Bomb,”
memories of the boys who used to visit
her before they went away to World War
II, and translations from the aboriginal;
together with most informative notes
which trace, among other things, the
origin of “cobber” to “ngcobbera”---
meaning an initiate; its first modification
to “cobber” was made, she says, by her
uncle on Cowabbee Station, where her
father was manager.
But of all the pieces those that have
the most poetry in them are those in
which this timeless woman speaks to our
times in the exquisitely feminine accents
of before the turn of the century, in her
own person, or in the equally universal
language of the salty “Old Jane”; —
All talk is good talk,
Siltin’ by the fire,
Hillin’ up the spuds together,
Milkin’ cows in the byre;
But, of all the good talk,
The best talk’s said
In the comfortable fellowship
Of a double bed.
Coast to Coast
Coast to Coast, Australian Short Stories,
1953-54, selected by C. B. Christesen
(the Angus and Robertson anfiual),
is lightly decorated this year by Donald
Friend; and across his picture on the
cover appears “Australian Short Stories
of Today.”
Well, the Australian short-story of
today is a very rare bird, even to maga-
zine-editors who print in a year many
times more stories than Mr. Christesen
has got into his anthology; the Aus-
tralian story right on the times, about
peculiarly post-World-War-II people and
happenings, the good times, the rush after
motor-cars, especially the business-life of
the city and the family-life of the suburbs,
hardly exists; nor could it be said that
this anthology gives you much of it.
Of the 25 pieces hardly more than four
could be called short-stories in the sense,
that the term would be understood by
Maugham or Wells or Wodehouse or
Conan Doyle:
Gavin Casey’s “The Hairy Men from
Hannigan’s Halt” is one of the most
hilarious mining stories ever told, and
about as long as a long bow could be
pulled with assured and crazy conviction.
R.. S. Porteous’s “High Finance,” about
the valueless cheque that financed an
island community, has perhaps been done
before, but hardly better, and not with
those wonderful scenes of island and
river trading he handles so well. M. G.
Vincent makes her first (and unduly
delayed) bow in this series with “The
Pringle Menace,” a first picture, also, as
far as one is aware, of a type of forceful,
energetic, outrageous old Australian
businessman, a burster through red-tape,
a stenographers’ terror and delight; one
feels one is not merely welcoming him
to this anthology, but to Australian writ-
ing. And in “The Legend of Sister Merry
Christmas” Lyndall Hadow records with
acid precision the advent of an aged
Englishwoman of the old school to a
Western Australian settlement for
aborigines.
Perhaps one should include here Dal
Stivens’s “The Hard-working Ghost,”
except that he does not pull the long
bow as well as Mr. Casey, and that his
scene is generalised and not drawn with
Mr, Casey’s rich and authentic detail.
Next come the novelties; not stories,
but sketches, that are worth while because
of something new or original in them.
Of such is "‘The Wedding,” by Lance
Loughrey, about a prostitute who is
getting married so that the police cannot
charge her with vagrancy, and half-way
through the service begins to weep;
“Nicolai,” by Geoffrey Dutton, about a
gigantic mad Russian railroaded out of
the Territory, who jumps off the train
and strides off into the desert sand sing-
ing hymns and blowing his hunting-horn ;
“Break,” by A. E. Sturges, about an
unemployed engineer’s first day at stone-
breaking in a quarry; “Well, What Do
You Say to the Boy?” by Judah Waten,
about a Jewish boy who, against his
father’s wishes, turns out to be a writer ;
and Mr. Christesen’s own curious collec-
tion of symbols, “The Albatross,” about
a boy who resented a girl swimming in
his pool.
After novelties come cruelties; the
kind of short story, often very well told,
in which the author sets out to make the
reader really wince: “The Year of the
Good Spring,” by A/t Hausler, where,
during the rich harvest, the farmer kicks
the bag-sewer off his property because
the bag-sewer can stitch more bags a day
than the farmer; “The Ewe and the
Lamb,” by Noel Donnan, the problem of
the heartbroken mother whose child fell
down a bore and could be heard wailing
for days; and “Naninja and Janey,” by
Katharine Susannah Prichard, where two
old gins go out, as is the tribal custom,
to die in the desert, the point being that
the sergeant of police who went out to
find them came back and spoke to Mary
Moyle on the gold-working:—
“Oh, well, missus,” he said jocosely,
“we found your old gins. But the dingoes
had got there first.”
“Jocosely,” you see? Just a word
thrown in.
Then there are the stories that are
not quite as good as their authors have
told: Judith Wright and Roland Robin-
son both tell grim stories of old outback
stations, both unusually grey and halting.
Finally, there are the bromides: Alan
Marshall’s duck that got away (his heart
goes where the wild goose goes); Eric
Lambert on the boy who didn’t like his
father shooting ducks; John Morrison’s
old hatter who was a genuine Australian
old hatter and wouldn’t give information
to the police about a fugitive ; David
Martin’s dressing-up of the chestnut
about the native’s reply to the Jew who
asked if he knew what a Jew was—“ You
belong tribe kill Jesus”
Well, as Mr. Martin tells it, about the
newest New Australian, who has just got
his naturalisation papers, and the oldest
Old-Australian in a country town, it’s not
bad if you haven’t heard it before; nor
is F. J. Hardy’s story of the sundowner
in these days of outback prosperity who
was offered a job at £2O a week and
actually paid his fare on the train out of
that place lest he might weaken and go
to work.
And to Mr. Hardy, of all people, one
is grateful for solving a critical problem.
For one has often felt, and said in these
columns, that although every grim story
with an unhappy ending is not neces-
sarily Leftist, the general mark of Left-
ism in story-writing is the grim story
with the unhappy ending. Such general-
isations are unsettling to the maker ; one
likes to be fair; and for this reason it
was interesting to read the coda tacked
by Mr. Hardy to his amusing little anec-
dote of prosperity:
I laughed appreciatively and Box-Car
Harry said, “You see, mate, the track s not
what it was.” .
I bought two more pots and we sipped
reflectively. I was thinking now not of the
mateship and adventure of the track but
of its grim reality —the despair and demoral-
isation of men robbed of the right to useful
work. , „
“There are signs of its coming again,
I said. “I wonder if it will?”
“If it ever does there’ll be a bloody revo-
lution,” said Box-Car Harry. “The people
won’t stand for it again.”
The vultures are waiting, you see, in
the confidence, even in the hope, that
human misery may again have a literary-
and platform-value.
The anthologist of short stories that
are put out as the best of the year should
not consider himself restricted to what
is sent in to the publishers. A quick run
through the stories of the Bulletin alone
for the year covered by this anthology
shows that Mr. Christesen has missed
three fine stories by E. O. Schlunk©;
“Dad Drains the Oil,” by Colin Thiele,
one of the funniest stories this paper has
ever printed; “The Knife,” by David
Campbell; “Keep It Brief,” by Nancy
Cato ; “The Sword of Laughter,” by Olaf
Ruhen ; “All the Trimmings,” by Kylie
Tennant; and “The Scented Garden,”
by Oliver Filter. It is a great pity that
such things should be left out, when
the majority of the anthology stories are
either slight or second-rate.
More Brent of Bin Bin
With publication of Cockatoos, A Story
of Youth and Exodists, by Brent of Bin
Bin (Angus and Robertson), the dedica-
tion to Sybylla Melvyn and various parts
of the book are supposed to give clues
to the name of the author; but while one
doesn’t mind the literary girls playing
hide-and-seek, one is not disposed to join
them: the name is known to someone,
and will no doubt be divulged at some
time, by when no one will be surprised
to hear that it is Nellie Melba, Caddie
the Barmaid, Miles Franklin, “Banjo”
Paterson, Miles Franklin or Miles
Franklin.
What seems worth commenting on to
a newcomer to the series is the extreme
good-fortune of the author. This part
of her chronicle of almost a century, set
near Goulburn, hops about like a flea in
a fit through the years 1899 to 1906. We
are thrown without introduction among
a crowd of people everyone seems to
know but the reader, who has to differ-
entiate between Claude Oswald and
Oswald Poole, and two Malcolms chas-
ing the same girl; and have to take in a
great deal on faith before the pedigrees
of the various families in the front of the
book take on meaning.
The story soon concentrates upon
Ignez Milford, who has been sent by her
father to live with her cousins, the
Richard Mazeres; this branch of the
family has fallen from squattocracy to
cockatoo-farming. Ignez is cursed with
the desire to write and sing; she writes
a novel and sends it away; then con-
centrates upon developing her voice.
Her singing-practice annoys her aunt;
she gets lessons first from an Italian,
then from a drunken teacher who paws
her about under pretence of supervising
her breathing; she rides through the
bush with men.
She is sent to Sydney to stay with her
great-aunt Rhoda, and there by the
complaisance of her aunt and lawyer-
uncle she is made odious love to in the
town flat of a roue dilettante of the arts.
Rushing back to the country from this
experience, she receives copies of her
novel; she is welcomed back to Sydney
to be shown off as a success. The roue,
now more than merely amused, makes
heavy business-gambles to enable him to
marry her; loses, and hurries back to his
rich fiancee. By this time Ignez had dis-
covered that her drunken teacher has
ruined her voice ; she goes to England
with the family of a touring professor,
and is last heard of in New York.
The marriage of Sylvia to young
Malcolm Timson because of Aunt Jessie ;
the shooting of Malcolm Oswald’s horse
from under him by a half-cracked young
farmer jealous of Sylvia and Ignez; and
a country concert attended by a well-
connected young English musical-comedy
star more or less complete the movement
of this part of the work, with prepara-
tions for the Boer War thrown in.
The writing, though the scenes of
country and city are well presented, does
not progress smoothly; people are
picked up and put down with sudden
jerks. As artist and musician, Ignez is
more than half steeped in the mawkish-
ness and sentimentality she is trying to
escape; as a woman she is moved by
forces the author probably does not under-
stand. (Not that the reviewer does,
either.) The sophisticated opportunism
of the Sydney set is equalled only by
their pretentiousness.
Yet in all these things the author is
fortunate, and more fortunate than a
smoother, more sophisticated, writer
about the period would be: because they
are representative. If people and families
can be picked up and put down, caught
in meaningless movement, acting the
common functions of life like dazed
automatons, it is because of lack of
tradition ; if young artists are bogged-
down in the second-rate, it is because
of a lack of opportunity not only to per-
form, but to hear as part of an audience,
and also because of a lack of that feel-
ing for art in a community which can
only be spread by good audiences. And
for that reason, the pretentious sophisti-
cate who seduces the would-be young
singer in his flat is probably doing her the
only service of which, wealthy or not,
the community is capable.
Such were the times of this “story of
youth and exodists,” times from which
we could hardly say we have emerged,
presented with such curious aptness by
an author whose style and feeling for
form are their parallel and their mirror,
and with a force and persistence whose
half-articulated images may well persist
after much more conscious and complete
writings have faded from the mind.
"When I Was in Italy"
Having lived for some fourteen years
in the superior position of having Been
Abroad a year or so after Douglas
Stewart’s first English expedition, The
Bulletin's Office Browser awaits Mr.
Stewart’s return from his second tour,
some time in October, and is spending
the few weeks of ascendancy which
remain to him in rehearsing a dialogue
which he hopes, no doubt vainly, will
prevent the morning-tea travel-mono-
logue from completely changing hands:
a little thing that may go something like
this;
Douglas Stewart : Of course I didn’t
have time to write about everything, but
no doubt you read my few hurried words
about the Passion Play outside Notre
Dame
Office Browser: Excellent. Excel
lent. But I hope that while you were in
Paris you took the opportunity of being
escorted fay Robert Close, the Australian
emigre author of Love Me, Sailor, round
the Existentialist cafes and cellars where
couples may be seen osculating in
exhibitionist embraces?
D S.: In the cleaner air of Ireland
O.B.: Ah, Ireland! I hope you met
Sean O’Hogan from County Clare — you
know, the scholar, patriot, poet, Gaelic-
speaker and wit; fond of our “Banjo”
Paterson, he is, but hadn’t heard of our
Father Hartigan of Around the Boree
Log! County Galway, too! Those stone
fences that make the countryside look
like Euclidean doodlings. And Tipper-
ary, whence your friend Ned Kelly’s
father was transported in 1841!
Don’t tell me you haven’t seen it —I
couldn’t bear it!
D.S.: Well, there are many Irelands,
you know ...
O.B.: But only one Iceland. Of course
you went there —everyone does. Sunnier
than London. Thermal water brought
to the town in concrete pipes laid by
the Americans when they occupied the
place during the last war; and, of all
things, Shaw’s “St. Joan” playing to a
crowded audience at the National
Theatre; and the population all telling
each other sagas —after a saga or so from
a real Icelander one can cheerfully dis-
pense with tedious contemporary imita-
tions, don’t you think?
{Continued on page 35)


A '
• >A ,
m*
m*.
m
K*
m
i&ooa
•■•>.: ;•>■ ;•-<
m
ma
m
mwm
til
Hi
m
s«*?.
.-■■
ms
a& : »&
A
uaoq smj jaqumti auoqdapi
ano ahm
• • ® The story of the development of the telephone in Australia is one of ever-increasing expansion and
planning for the future. This expansion has played an enormous part in the prosperity and growth of Anthony
Horderns’ whose problems of providing a better telephone shopping service has always been a major consideration.
With over 360,000 ’phones connected in Sydney alone, and with Exchanges continually being enlarged to cope with
the increasing demand, it is little wonder that even such a network of lines as we have, must eventually become
overburdened and inadequate. Our inward and outgoing calls amount to millions per year, so, in order to provide
for the increase in service, the Telephone Department found it necessary to give Anthony Horderns’ an entirely
new number, thus: Bo9£l. We hope you will soon become as familiar with 150951 as you were with the old number. We are
sorry to lose it, but as the Department explains: "A new range of numbers, together with special equipment has been
Because
r
■
90 lines always at your service, day or night, at Anthony Horderns
designed to provide improved service where a high calling rate is involved. This
equipment is also designed to provide the most efficient service where a
large number of lines are associated with a single number
So 80951 has been allotted to Anthony Horderns’. It’s a good number. For over
131 years we have been continually building a reputation for service in every
avenue of retail supply, and, consistent with our famous motto, "While I live I’ll grow,”
here is yet another invaluable extension of service to our* customers.
To save yourself time, money and effort, just dial 110951 and do all your shopping through
-our streamlined
Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping team of pleasant, helpful experts will do all your shopping for you. Put 80951 in your diary,
on the front page of your ’phone book, on the back of the kitchen
door, but most definitely put it in the page of your memory where
. .
important ’phone numbers are kept ! Remember, 80951 is
'.• ' •
T- '
OUR NEW TELEPHONE NUMBER !
mm
//


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 8, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3891
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
'’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
FACTS OF NATIONAL LIFE
A little over nine years ago—yes, over nine years
ago!—World War 11. ended. In August, 1945,
in the Pacific the last shot was fired in a war that began
following Germany’s invasion of Poland in 1939. The
war lasted riearly six years. Its aftermath is still with
us, and the end is not in sight.
Those %ho were adults in 1939 mostly still think
of World War II as a thing of only yesterday.
Yet it is fifteen years last week since it began, nine
years last month since*it ended. But any person who
takes an intelligent interest in politics or economics, in
assessing human behavior or economic values today,
cannot dismiss World War II from his mind. It is to
state the obvious that out of that second world war
also rose Communism in a shape stronger than ever
before, and with the problem of a “free” but flounder-
ing Asia thrust on the Western World in no uncertain
manner. John Bull has ceased to be the policeman of
the world, and Uncle Sam, who used to envy John
his role, is beginning to wonder what he has let
himself in for.
Out of the war came the atom-bomb. It was one
of the greatest shocks of the war, and its implications
were bewildering to the citizens of Allied and enemy
countries alike. Among the victors it took away much
of the satisfaction in final victory. Before World War
II had ended it had raised a cloud of imponderables
on the horizon with regard to World War 111.
The savagery of the Japanese and the cynical
treachery of the Russians are other things which
startled Australians. Then Indonesia. Perhaps not yet
have Australians fully realised. the difference which
the departure of the friendly Dutch from control in the
East Indies has made in their strategic position. But a
situation of fluidity and unease has taken the place of
pre-war tradition and complacency. Britain’s own
standing as a world Power has changed during the 15
years; today Washington and Moscow are the most
vocal centres of the opposing world camps. Though
Britain’s position is one which can easily be under-
rated through a too-superficial assessment of national
appearances—to begin with, the apparent decline in the
strength of the Royal Navy by comparison with that
of the United States may not be nearly as important
as it might seem in terms of 1939 thinking—in the
mind of the average Australian there is much in the
situation about which he must remain uncertain. The
rebuilding of Japan and Germany with U.S. aid, and,
on the other hand, the peevish sickness and decline of
France—twice a battlefield in 40 years—have all been
largely the result of the menace of world Communism ;
but they leave the average man with very little that is
stable or solid to hold on to in his picture of where
his country stands in the world today. There has been
no real peace and not much stability in the world for
the past 20 years.
Obviously the most that Australia can do for itself
in the circumstances is to put its own house in the best
order it can. There is plenty for it to do. In New
South Wales it has had a worthless “Labor” Govern-
ment since 1941. Beginning with McKell, it has got
progressively worse under McGirr and Cahill.
Parasites galore are in the saddles of authority. The
“Labor” Government of N.S.W. today has become
a rubber-stamp for the trade-unions and similar vested
interests, and public welfare and national
security matter not a jot to it. In nothing is
this better exemplified than in the State
railways, which are run mostly in the interests of the
A.R.U. The N.S.W. railways become more decrepit
and dangerous each day, and are notoriously unreliable.
The police force of the same State is under a cloud,
and the Cahill Government is in no mind to clear it.
The Doyle and Vitnell scandals raise the query as to,
what other corruption exists at or near State political
level. Communism still dictates policy in several key
unions, notably on the waterfront. The industrial-
groups which oppose the Communists are sectional in
their outlook and represent another pressure-group.
Within 30 months of the end of the war the
working-week was reduced from 44 hours to 40, though
the need for greater production was clearly shown by
the continuance of price-control, among many other
indicators. Now, nearly eight years after the introduc-
tion of the 40-hour week, price-control in some form
still operates in most of the States. We have never
recovered from the 40-hour week, though in several
manufacturing industries output per man per week is
now as high as it ever was. The burden of 40-hours
bears most heavily on the transport industries; and
even though some Australian manufacturers have
increased output through mechanisation, other
countries are still far ahead of us. In this age of
technical progress many Australian trade-unionists
have failed to hold their own. But the fact that'there
has been some improvement where they work for
private enterprise is encouraging. The dreadful failure
is in State transport systems and similar public utilities.
It would appear that the Australian national
income, per head of the population, has increased
slightly since 1939, after making allowance for the
fact that money-figures of today need to be divided
by three in order to bring them to the buying-power
of pre-war days. But in view of the full employment
that now exists our productivity is still much below
what we might reasonably expect, and the surplus for
saving and investment in new capital works is
inadequate.
Amongst ourselves our chief failure in this post-
war world has been to work hard enough, to save
enough and to elect State political leaders prepared to
deal with economic and industrial problems in an
honest and forthright way. A strong industrial position
is the foundation of strong defence. Even in Federal
politics the Menzies-Fadden Government, which
tackled the inflationary, disruptive boom of 1951 with
courage and success, barely won a majority at the last
election. At this uncertain stage of our history Aus-
tralians are still loath to face the facts of national life.
Meeting Mao
The Attlee delegation’s arrival in Australia this week
will bring forward the perennial question of the recog-
nition of Red China by Australia. It does not arise for
Mr. Attlee, because the only bar to proper diplomatic
representation of the United Kingdom in Peking has
been the attitude of Peking itself. It presents more
problems for Mr. Attlee’s unfortunate opposite-number
in the Commonwealth, Dr. Evatt, who has troubles
enough on his hands at the present time without having
to face such a thorny issue.
It is a matter which is so much dynamite in the
Federal “Labor” party, that inner temple of free
thought and free speech, that when a member of caucus
felt the urge to discuss it and the Attlee delegation’s
visit the other day in Parliament he was compelled
to speak in parables to keep his endorsement.
Diplomatic representation is a very different thing
from an alliance. And therefore it is a different thing
from the admission of a country to U.N.O. It would be
unthinkable to admit Red China to U.N.O. at present
because it is an aggressor, and it could be taken as a
sine qua non that it would not live up to the Atlantic
Charter or to its obligations to defend peace against
the aggressor. There are already enough aggressors
in U.N.0., all engaged in promoting principles which
are directly opposite to those endorsed by U.N.O.
The need is to throw some of them out rather than to
take new ones in. And, furthermore, it would scarcely
be practical politics to desert National China while
enough of it exists to defend a bit of territory in
Formosa, Any attempt to bring Red China in would
meet at once with vetoes from the United Spates and the
Nationalist Government, and quite rightly, in view of
the outstanding issues between America and Chiang
and Peking.
Diplomatic representation is another question
altogether. Every country has a right to choose its own
type of Government and its own mode of life. And
the fact that one is a capitalist country and the other a
Communist country should not be allowed to stand in
the way of mutual friendship, or at least laissez faire
and trade and intercourse if an arrangement can be
achieved. ' It is, of course, problematical whether
permanent friendly and trade relations can be achieved,
under §uch circumstances. And it is perhaps not
pertinent to say that they have been achieved and
maintained between the British and utter barbarians,
because Communism is in a different category to mere
barbarianism. It is international, and it has a world-
conqperor’s ambitions.
Yet there is still something to be gained by having
an ambassador and consuls exchanged, because on
that basis it can be said by those who take part in the
exchange that they have at least tried to find common
ground on which to live without flying at each other’s
throats. The complete isolation of a nation
of 600 million people living at low, standards can
scarcely be maintained for very long. And if that
isolation is enforced by outlawry, the country outlawed
is apt to behave like an outlaw and to keep on drawing
away from other countries until it is like the buffalo
bull cast out of a herd, which usually goes mad with
loneliness.
Communist China in the present circumstances
may want outlawry by the West; but if this
is so its attitude is voluntary and not enforced. Judging
from Mao’s programme of 1953 there can be little
doubt that he is planning at present to go the whole
way with Moscow, but only because he can see no
alternative. The Chinese have no flair for interna-
tional war as a nation, and they have no innate love
for the Russians. Their position is based on self-interest
dictating what they believe to be a logical and necessary
course. But with their natural individualism, their love
of trade, their links with the British-speaking peoples
and all their traditions they must find the Russians
very hard to live with. And presently, when they
become strong enough to do some dictating, the
Russians will find it considerably harder to live with
them and will probably wish they weren’t.
These factors make it wise that a door should
always be kept open and a hand outstretched towards
China whatever regime is in power there. It should
be made plain that Australia has the friendliest feeling
for the Chinese people, and that it is ready at all times
to translate it into concrete diplomatic terms to
encourage trade with China and to leave China to
manage its own affairs irrespective of the nature of its
government, provided it does not interfere with our
methods and systems.
This policy should be regular as regards all
countries, and should be promoted with insistence to
the point at which dignity and security are at stake.
And it is the more necessary in the East, since it is
inevitable both that we must keep on good terms with
Japan as a matter of Mefence and the maintenance of
peace, and that Japan, if it is to continue to exist
on the basis of its present swelling of population, must
soon establish trading relationships with China.
The Commonwealth should be actuated in fol-
lowing its policy solely by its awn individual views and
interests, and it is a matter into which the views of the
most friendly neighbors should not intrude.
It is not an argument against recognition of China
that the United States does not recognise it. Recogni-
tion or non-recognition is determined by the state of
accord, the nature of the differences and problems
between the nations themselves.
As Dr. Cameron said in the Federal Parliament
in a wise speech: “While countries like the
U.S.S.R. and Communist China exist in the world you
cannot shut yourself off from them,” and to “endeavor
to make contacts with them does not commit us to
approving them,”
At the same time diplomacy must always play
from strength. Attempts to secure peaceful and
permanent settlements should in no way tend to weaken
defence or reduce the show of strength by the non-
Communist countries. But to enter into commitments
like those which are being framed at the Seato meet-
ing this week in the Philippines without a parallel
effort to establish friendly relationships—an attempt
which is continuous —is tantamount almost to a
declaration of hostilities.
No doubt Mr. Casey will continue his attempts
to achieve a line of approach. If the whole of the
British Commonwealth were represented in Peking it
would certainly have an effect on Chinese viewpoints.
At present one of the weaknesses of the British
Commonwealth in dealing with potentially hostile
countries is that there is no unity either in policy or
method between the Commonwealth nations.
Surely there must be common grounds of principle
on which they can stand together firmly in the face of
the world.
Socialist "Cheap Money"
From Auckland: If the goats who lead the Socialist
sheep had their way N.Z. would be back to the bad
old practice of inflating credit through the Reserve
Bank, almost without cost, as from the late ’thirties
until they were booted out at the end of 1949.
Although Mr. Walter Nash, their financial “wizard,”
who was Minister of Finance for 14 years and is now
head of the Labor Opposition, is guarded in his public
statements, those who keep him where he is make no
secret about it that they still pin their faith to easy and
cheap money, and this with an election only two months
ahead, which might decide whether they will remain
in the wilderness for a long time. Little realising that
most Maorilahders no longer have any confidence in
fake money or in the false prosperity built upon it,
they’re still hammering away on the same old theme
that the Government should use the Reserve Bank to
finance State housing at only nominal interest.
The biggest goat, whose voice v is that of N.Z.
Socialists at large, is F. P. Walsh, president of the
Federation of Labor and the big noise in the Fed.’s
annual conference some months back, who lashed out
at P.M. Sid Holland for borrowing £l2 million from
the trading banks to build houses and wanted to know
why the P.M. had repaid £6 million temporarily raised
from the Reserve Bank when the Government was in
debt to the other banks to more than this extent. This
is a sample of the financial logic of Walsh and his
supporters. It would be expected that Walsh, who has
been abroad a few times, would know that there are
no high interest-rates in N.Z.
Overseas financiers who visit N.Z. laugh at sugges-
tions that there is dear money there, as' the Socialists
seem to think. As for a difference between the rate
for short-term money—Treasury-bill finance—and the
trading banks’ lending rate, only Socialists would expect
things to be otherwise. If the Government decided
to leave ’its Treasury bills to run on while it repaid
other debts, sound finance would be at an end; the
effects on top of inflation generated externally by
buoyant export markets would double the pressure
on costs and prices.
Socialists can’t, or won’t, distinguish between
internal and external inflation, and make the mistake
of thinking that the brand experienced under Mr.
Holland has been more damaging than Mr. Nash’s.
The gains in late years, with high export prices for
butter, cheese, meat and wool, have gone mainly to
primary producers, who are the backbone of N.Z., in
contrast to the Nash method of handing-out new money
to the wage-earners in the days when prices for exports
were fairly steady. Had the Nash system been pursued
for a few years longer, the basic industries would have
been sunk by snowballing costs, instead of being in
their present flourishing condition.
As the farmers have been largely outside the scope
of the 40-hour five-day week, and N.Z.’s two million
milking-cows have been on the job continuously, there
is much to be said for this distribution of rewards.
Had all workers put up as good a performance as the
farmers, there would be no soft spots in N.Z. prosperity
today; but Mr. Holland has been generously giving
most groups credit for doing a job since N.Z. got rid
of a bunch of trouble-makers, particularly on the
wharves, three years ago. Over this time N.Z. has
been a peaceful place industrially.


MADEMOISELLE FROM ARMENTIERES


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Evatts and Security
Dr. Evatt’s action in the matter of
Madame Ollier, Second Secretary of the
French Embassy at Canberra, who is
being sent home from New Caledonia
under arrest for trial by a military tri-
bunal, seems to raise the question of
whether he is fit any longer to lead the
Opposition in the Federal Parliament or
to occupy a seat in that assembly.
Madame Ollier was accused by the
Petrovs of having been one of their in-
formants about a ship which was due to
carry munitions from Australia to Indo-
China and about other matters, and to
have accepted the present of a watch from
them. Petrov, at an inquiry held in Mel-
bourne by the commission behind closed
doors, testified to meetings with Madame
Oilier. She was not present, having been
ordered by her own Government to pro-
ceed to N§w Caledonia on May 11 imme-
diately after it had been informed by
t h e Australian Government, very
properly, of Petrov’s allegations.
Presumably having made its own in-
quiries and having obtained information
which, it feels, justifies the lady’s trial in
France by court-martial, it arrested her
three months later and sent her to France
under escort. Without prejudging the
case, it is scarcely likely that the French
intended to hold a trial in France unless
they have evidence there which appears
to support the allegation.
Dr. Evatt has no specific interest in
the Ollier case except as it affects his
appearance before the royal commission
for his two secretaries, who are alleged
to have given—and deny they did give—
some more-or-less innocuous information
in an unguarded moment to the author
of a document supposedly written in the
Soviet Embassy at Canberra. He has a
much wider responsibility, outside the
inquiry, to Parliament, in which he is
Leader of the Opposition—his appear-
ance would certainly have been dealt with
as a matter of privilege if he had been
in the House of Commons. He is in a
special position as a former leader of
Australian delegates to U.N.O. and as ex-
president of that body. He owes some
special courtesy to the French nation,
since it accorded him, at the end of his
term of presidency of U.N.0., the Grand
Cross of the Legion of Honor, a decora-
tion which he would have refused the
French permission, while he was External
Affairs Minister, to confer on any other
Australian.
Yet he has plunged wildly into an
attack on the French —especially the
French Ambassador in Australia—with-
out knowing what evidence they have
about Madame Ollier and what their
course will be. He says, without knowing
anything whatever about the matter, that
“It is quite possible, and I believe likely,
that Madame Ollier is completely inno-
cent of wrongdoing,” that she has been
“whisked away from the country by M.
Roche, the French Ambassador.” He
has expressed the hope that the French
Government will “show more propriety
and justice—not to say chivalry—than
has been exhibited by the Ambassador.”
Very properly this has brought an
official protest from the French Gov-
ernment, and it will certainly result in
Australia having to apologise publicly
and officially for Dr. Evatt’s insults.
Dr. Evatt’s whole attitude, and that of
his brother, who has entered the field, is
extraordinary. At a time when the
operations of alleged spies for a foreign
country armed to the teeth against us are
under consideration by a disinterested
and rigidly judicial tribunal which has
been hearing evidence with the utmost
patience and impartiality, both these
politicians are behaving as they usually
behave on occasions where the interests
of the Communists are at stake.
At this stage Dr, Evatt’s proceedings
before the royal commission cannot fairly
be discussed. But it is surely a flagrant
breach of every canon usually observed
in such matters that, while he is appear-
ing before a statutory tribunal, he should
deliberately try to inflame public opinion
against proceedings at the commission
and witnesses being tested before it on
oath, by public statements involving re-
flections on the sense of justice of a
foreign Government. It is outrageous
that he and his brother, an ex-Minister,
should be publicly involved in a cam-
paign which parallels the Communist
campaign in content and energy.
Mr. Hill, the Victorian secretary of the
Communist party, in August, 1953, issued
a pamphlet indicating the Communist-
party line that all operations of Security
and the police are the product of capi-
talist conspiracy and forgery, and abus-
ing the Security police as, inter alia,
“spies” of the Menzies Govern-
ment’s, “police State.” Last Sunday
Mr. Clive Evatt, according to the
newspaper reports, was echoing Mr. Hill’s
sentiments and even his noisy abuse
of the Security police in the Sydney
Domain. And at an A.L.P. women’s
conference Dr. Evatt, fresh from his
attack on the French, was also following
a line similar to the Communists that
there is a crisis in being in which there
is need to “resist the threat to basic
liberty,” with people “fearful of talking
to their neighbors.”
There hasn’t been a condition of affairs
in existence in Australia like that since
Dr. Evatt was Attorney-General and
the Australia First men were in intern-
ment camp.
Seato and Its Plans
The results of the Seato conference
appear to be pretty much as expected.
There will be no Nato agreement for
Asia and no commitments for any action
that is worth much and that could
not have been arranged without the pub-
licity and disturbance to international
relationships which goes with this sort of
meeting—at which every danger facing
the constituent nations and every possible
measure politic or otherwise to combat it
is turned over with a pin in the hearing of
the world.
The idea that the eight nations, of
which only three—Pakistan, Siam and
the Philippines—are Asian, are to set up
a new defence system for South-East
Asia will make the Communist bloc
laugh.
Not one of the Asian countries has
much to contribute in fighting-men or
resources. The Philippines are virtually an
American-occupied colony with huge
American bases in the islands —and
more to come, if reports may be believed.
This is all to the good for Australian
defence. If the Americans left the
Philippines would be in immediate
danger, but it scarcely qualifies the
Philippines to take part in an independent
discussion on defence. Siam is next-
door to Communism. And Pakistan is
within two hours’ flight of one of The
most important of the Russian military
headquarters, and would be tied-up from
the moment a finger was lifted against
the West by Moscow. The only agree-
ment that could be made would be to
help the Pakistanis, who at least could
be trusted to fight fiercely and bravely
if attacked, which some other people
couldn’t be.
The most potentially powerful and im-
portant nation in the Western Pacific —
Japan—must be left out of the discus-
sions. The most important strategic issue,
that of Formosa and of the Chinese
Nationalist armies, must not be men-
tioned above a whisper at the meeting
because half a dozen nations disagree
about it. Yet it is at the heart of the
problem of Pacific Ocean defence.
Firm military undertakings cannot
be come to publicly because of constitu-
tional difficulties. And, generally speak-
ing, all that could happen was that the
United States would have an opportunity
of announcing, with its usual boyish
exuberance, its line of policy in the
Orient to enable others to agree. And
this could surely have been done without
the parade of a conference and the pro-
vocation entailed in its proceedings.
A quiet meeting between the English-
speaking countries’ representatives and
the French in Washington, with subse-
quent discussions to assure the help of
the smaller nations whose territories are
likely to become battlegrounds, would
achieve more than what is likely to be
arranged at Manila.; and that without
noise, nonsense and press misinterpreta-
tion and mischiefmaking.
Secret diplomacy has its drawbacks,
but there are times when it presents the
better course.
i _
New Guinea's Future
“In the ACT”: It seems possible that our
delegation this month to the U.N. General
Assembly a delegation which will
include a spokesman for the Federal
Opposition—will be faced squarely with
a demand for a definition of where Aus-
tralia stands on the three portions of New
Guinea, and why. We may also be asked
what plans, if any, have been made for
the future self-government of Papua
(which is Australian by 19th-century
acquisition) and for north-east New
Guinea (which was captured by Aus-
tralians from Germany in 1914 and is
now held under U.N. mandate, in succes-
sion from the League of Nations man-
date). All this may arise from Indonesia’s
bid to have its claim for Dutch New
Guinea (“West Irian” in Djakarta ter-
minology) considered by the Assembly.
In the past Australia has supported Dr.
Malan’s claim to U.N. that the racial
clashes in South Africa are a domestic
matter of no U.N. concern, and France’s
attitude that the Indo-China war was
also a domestic concern of France.
Undoubtedly this Australian view has
been influenced by considerations of
reciprocal action by those nations if and
when the question of New Guinea comes
forward, just as our support of the Dutch
retention of West New Guinea has been
affected by defence and strategic views
which are still important but perhaps less
vital than they were a decade of weapon-
development ago. We have also had to
consider whether Indonesia’s nationalistic
fervor, seeking West New Guinea less for
any intrinsic benefits than for prestige in
the eyes of Asia, might not extend at
some time in the future to Australian-
held New Guinea, Portuguese Timor and
British Borneo and Sarawak. Other
background factors must be the future
demands of land-hungry Japanese and
Chinese, seeking lush tropical areas for
expansion and exploitation —factors of
which Indonesia itself is not unmindful.
The Indonesian claim to West New
Guinea is being presented at the moment
in more moderate fashion than hitherto.
There is less talk of “rights,” and more
of the need for impartial consideration
by the U.N. —which may not be so impar-
tial with some members holding extreme
views on either side. However, if the
question reaches the floor despite the
opposition of Holland and Australia,
among others, then our own views may
be canvassed critically there, and wei
shall need to present a strong and water-
tight case. We must remember there is
a strong body of opinion in the United
States (which has so far abstained from
any statement of national policy on New
Guinea) which sees Australia as a “white”
colonial Power administering the affairs
of some millions of colored peoples, and
is vocally querying our intentions when
the New Guinea natives under ouy control
reach the educational for
citizenship and for self-government.
Until a few years ago these questions
seemed academic. But the march of
nationalism in Asia has not overlooked
the New Guinea question, or the Indo-
nesian claim that even ethnically and
culturally Indonesia has a better right
to West New Guinea than Holland can
present. Australia may be asked in New
York this month to explain its plans for
its end of New Guinea, and its view of
freedom for the New Guinea natives in
the not-too-remote future, just as the
Dutch may be questioned similarly on
West New Guinea. Our own future may
well depend on the degree of conviction
we can induce by our replies.
•
The Dearth of Statesmen
Neither on the “Labor” nor the Liberal
side in N. S. Wales are there more than
three or four members who could have
confidently claimed inclusion in a State
Ministry 40 years ago. State Parlia-
ments, with a few individual exceptions,
provide homes only for mediocrities, for
the work-horses whose duties begin and
end with a sedulous attention to the little
administrative jobs of the electorates.
It is hard to believe on the basis of
current form that State politics could ever
have produced Deakin, Reid, Kingston,
Higgins, B. R. Wise, not to mention
Henry Parkes, Griffith, Menzies, Hughes,
Lyons, Holman and a hundred more
whose names rise to the tip of the
tongue.
In some sense the day of the statesman
in State Parliaments ended with the
formulation of the Loan Council pro-
visions of the Constitution. But that need
not have been, as has been proved
by Mr. Playford in South Australia. The
real cause seems to lie in what has hap-
pened to State Parliaments under “Labor”
rule. Where “Labor” has for any long
term been in office in a State it has usually
been because, once in, it has made very
sure of retaining office by its electoral
redistributions and accumulations of the
“Labor” voters in the public service. In
Queensland “Labor,” save for three terms,
has held office since 1912 ; in N. S. Wales
for 13 years.
As in Sydney city politics, the A.L.P.
looks for servility rather than ability in
its State politicians; and for the Opposi-
tion a seat in the Assembly—more so
the Council—is a dead-end job which
leads nowhere save to frustration.
If “Labor” had its way, Federal politics
would present the same aspects, with a
voting-machine, acting as a “Labor”
Government but automatically registering
the orders of the Federal A.L.P. executive,
and an Opposition without hope.
The Federal Government has fore-
shadowed the appointment of a committee
to consider necessary amendments to the
Constitution. It might also consider what
can be done in process of drafting the
amendments to ensure that Parliament
shall regain its old independence and
dignity and that there should be in future
something in Parliamentary law to deal
with the pressure-groups, inside and out-
side the public services, which appear at
election-time and when legislation is
going through, and seek to intimidate
candidates on some purely selfish and
sectional issues and govern the country
by political blackmail from outside
Parliament,
Full-moon on Salisbury Plain
Some Salisbury Plain English from F. M.
Cutlack:
This mid-August day, almost an Australian
summer day, was marked also by the arrival
of The Bulletin’s Charlie Shaw, alias Bant
Singer of the Delaney books, whom I last con-
fabbed with six months ago across the news-
paper-files at The Bulletin office. Since then
I am part-boss of this garage in Ludgershall,
on the northern fringe of Salisbury Plain, and
he stalks about Europe with his pockets full of
contracts with screen, radio-play and other
agents, fretting because he can’t wgrk over
here because he’s lost the scents of George-
street.
We talked the sun down and the full moon
up in a clear evening sky, over a landscape by
day from any height of it looking something
like the Oxley Plains of a much richer green,
the last few hours in one of those snug and
homely village pubs which, we agreed, stand
up against their Australian counterparts (which
is complimenting our noble country) like a
sunflower against a tarred fence, to use the
simile of the inimitable Mark Twain.
We discussed the whole state of world,
national and domestic politics, saluted The
Bulletin for its comments on the latest antics
of the great mountebank of Australian politics;
and the marked increase of alertness and
intelligence of youth, in the mass, in England
with the full-blooded system of universal mili-
tary training, now a prime obligation of the
citizen in this land —the most gratifying accom-
paniment to the institution of the Welfare State,
and one which should assist it to override
abuses of the same.
Under the moon aforesaid, making as it did
a fool of the normal twilight, we saluted the
great chalk Kiwi and Rising Sun emblazoning
for ever this countryside with the signs manual
of the Anzacs, and lifted by the hills as monu-
ments on this most ancient battleground of
Ancient Britain, to hold the attention of all
beholders. A grand day, and you’re not wrong,
Delaney.
Conspiracy Most Foul?
Most of last week’s sittings of the RoyaV
Commission on Espionage in Sydney
were devoted to the cross-examination of
Mrs. Petrov by Dr. Evatt and Mr. Hill,
the secretary of the Victorian Communist
party, who sits next to Dr. Evatt at the
Bar table.
There was nothing new in the cross-
examination, save that Mrs. Petrov added
some small corroboratory details to infor-
mation to which she had previously
sworn. The same questions were asked
over and over again, and received the
same answers again.
When she left the witness-box on
Thursday the drama of Document J
began to move to its clifoax. Stripped to
its bones, the distilled product of the
three weeks of sitting in Sydney resolved
themselves, after days of innuendo and
vagueness from the cross-examiners, into
what electronic-brain mathematicians
would describe as a “routine” for working
out the results of the inquiry on the
document. It now boils down to the
question of whether of not it is a forgery.
And if Dr. Evatt can prove that it is—
he has produced no evidence so far—
obviously every other document with
which the commission is concerned
becomes suspect.
The material for this week’s operation
was brought together when the commis-
sioners had insisted that Dr. Evatt tell
them “what is this conspiracy to which
you have made many allusions and who
do you allege are the conspirators in
addition to O’Sullivan?”
In reply Dr. Evatt said that “at the
centre of the conspiracy is Petrov. I say
that O’Sullivan was part-author of Docu-
ment J and was another conspirator. Mrs.
Petrov must also be included as a con-
spirator.” He said that Mr. Richards,
of Security, accepted
fabricated documents and failed in his
duty to the country to examine them, and
paid a large sum of money for them;
but when asked by Mr. lustice Ligertwood
“whether you allege that he was a party to
the political conspiracy” he replied:
“Further investigation by your Honors
will enable the truth to be elicited.”
Mr. Hill, representing Lockwood, then
said that there had been a “foul con-
spiracy, of which his client had been the
(i Continued on next page)


victim,” on which Mr. Justice Owen
asked whether it was the same conspiracy
to which Dr. Evatt had referred, adding
that Mr. Hill had “cross-examined the
Petrovs for some hours,” but this was the
first mention of conspiracy by Mr. Hill.
Mr. Windeyer said that “Dr, Evatt had
not redeemed the vagueness, irrationality
and incoherency of his allegations by the
vehemence with which they were made,”
and suggested that the accusations of both
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Hill “were the products
of a persecution-complex.” He said that
the whole of the evidence before the
commission was that Document J was the
work of Lockwood, and not the result
of some long and elaborate conspiracy.
Mr. Justice Owen had a few minutes
before announced, “At this stage I would
like to say that there is no evidence that
O’Sullivan typed Document J or was the
author of it, and there is strong evidence
that he was not the author or typist.” He
followed this now with the remark that
“we cannot think of a more serious
charge than the charge made against a
man holding Mr. Richards’s position.
The charge is that he has been guilty of a
criminal conspiracy.”
With the arrest of Madame Ollier, the
lady second-secretary of the French
Embassy, and the announcement that she
was being sent to France for trial before
a military tribunal as the result of charges
by Petrov; that she had been prepared
to supply certain information to the
Soviet Embassy for favors received ; with
Dr. Evatt’s remarkable intervention in
that delicate international matter and the
snub administered to him by the French
Government; with the briefing of Sh
Garfield Barwick, Q.C., to appear for
Security Service, the stage was set to hear
Dr. Evatt’s case in support of his charges
this week.
POLITICAL POINTS
Extract from report of the debate in
which Menzies told Ward that “I under-
stand the member’s fears a fortnight
before he ever expresses them —I see
them in the ‘Tribune’ ”;
Mr. Ward: You are afraid. Tou are
afraid that Document J will be pubUshed.
It is all about your private affairs.
If it is true, how does Ward know?
On the evidence so far Document J has
been seen only by the royal commis-
sioners on espionage, by Dr. Evatt, by
Fergan O’Sullivan and his counsel,
by counsel assisting the commission, by
Security men, by Lockwood, and by
experts. And publication of any part
of it not specifically authorised is for-
bidden by the royal commissioners.
• •
From a pamphlet called Conspiracy
Against the Australian People, by E. F.
Hill, secretary of the Victorian branch
of the Communist party:
Have not the Communists been the main-
spring, the inspirers of all patriotic struggles
here in Australia? Have they not been in
the forefront of the fight for the improve-
ment of wages and conditions of the work-
ing people?... .Have the Communists not
championed peace, and who can say that
the championing of peace is not the most
patriotic action of any citizen? And have
not the Communists battled for houses, for
schools, for hospitals? Is it not a fact that
the community, even the top sections of
the employers (the conspirators themselves),
set the Communists upon a moral pedestal?
Frankly, there doesn’t seem to be much
information available to answer the ques-
tions. Perhaps Eddie Ward might oblige.
• •
The Federal Budget Session is the
dullest and deadliest since Casey’s
Budget was brought down the week of
Munich in 1938.' And the first part of
the session will be barren of any import-
ant legislation not arising from taxation-
changes and the provision of supply, save
perhaps for a new Commonwealth Roads
Bill, which may be put through before
the Houses rise for a short recess at the
end of the month. After September 16
financial debates will have to be con-
ducted without the help of Treasurer
Fadden, who leaves for Canada, U.S.
and the conferences on sterling.
• •
The Estimates disclosed that £65,000 is
being provided for the Royal Commis-
sion on Espionage—although, as one of
the commissioners has suggested a little
despondently, the rate of progress as a
result of some unexpected intervention
may prolong the inquiry beyond the
original forecasts of time and cost.
Administrative expenses of the Security
Service are expected to be £354,000 for
the year, compared with £332,000 spent
last year. Cost of the Investigation Ser-
vice is estimated at £102,000 (salaries,
£82,000) compared with £96,218 laet year.
• •
The sixty-four-dollar question in Can-
berra is: “Will the Leader of her
Majesty’s Opposition come down tomor-
row to welcome Attlee, or will he send
him a telegram?” One member of
caucus, a sardonic fellow, is reported to
have suggested that he might try to send
Sir Garfield Barwick as his deputy.
• •
“We have no definite views on the
liquor matter,” N.S.W. Premier Cahill
told a deputation from the A.L.P. execu-
tive and the N.S.W. Labor Council, after
promising to swivel on the club-closing
condition in the referendum. The ques-
tion to be asked the people is whether
pubs and clubs should close at 6 p.ra.
or 10 p.m., but, whatever the people’s
answer, Cahill will still let clubs carry on
as at present Having started to
weave his tangled web of deception,
Cahill is now caught up in it himself.
Unlike Cahill, the breweries have
definite views on liquor and the selling
of it. Shows in N.S.W. bars —screen or
flesh-and-blood —are now banned at the
source of beer-supply. If-you go into a
pub in N. S. Wales you are expected to
concentrate on beer, not even to give
your attention to the bar-flies crawling
up the wall.
Can anyone remember having been
able to buy a half-bottle of ale with an
Australian brewer’s name on it? In the
U.S.A., Britain and Continental countries
the two-glass bottle is a general thing.
But in Australia if you open a bottle of
beer you have to dispose of 260 z. The
breweries force you to.
• •
“There is no truth in the suggestion
that brewery or other interests have
influenced the Government,” says Cahill,
What —not even the A.L.P. ?
• •
Every week there seems to be a fresh
snahill from Cahill.
• •
Schoolteachers who tried to indoctrin-
ate children with Communism were
traitors, and should be sought out and
driven into disgrace and oblivion, J. F.
McGrath, N. S. Wales Acting Minister
for Education, told the annual conference
of the Teachers’ Federation. A resolution
was carried denying any political indoc-
trination, but an addendum moved by
S. P. Lewis, and couched in familiar
language—“ Skill and integrity of
teachers can be obtained only when
teachers are assured of social and
economic security and political and
religious freedom” —was lost, though it
was later decided to include it in the
annual report. Communist influence in
the N.S.W. teaching profession has been
apparent for some years. The “Tribune”
has its schoolteacher contributors.
McGrath spoke in the absence of the
Education Minister, Heffron. In his
METHO AND BOOT-POLISH
younger days Heffron was tutor in public-
speaking to the Communist party.
It would be interesting to know what
Heffron, the permanent N.S.W. Min-
ister for Education, said to his seat-
warmer when he returned from a tour
abroad. He in an earlier day declaimed
that “by scientifically organising our in-
dustrial forces along the lines of the Red
International, we will reach the goal of
our dreams on the road to which Soviet
Russia is the greatest milestone passed.”
• •
Sixty N.S.W. Prices Branch officials
are being transferred to other State
Government departments. No sackings
are involved. Prices Minister Ahie
Landa “regrets the necessity for price-
controls,” but he is “not yet satisfied that
they can be entirely eliminated.” (This
is 15 years after they were first intro-
duced.) Price-control in N. S. Wales in
the past has been used for a variety of
purposes, including, some time back, the
granting of a special price-premium to
Metropolitan Cement, which owes the
“Labor” Government’s Rural Bank an
awful lot of money and which has had
a remarkable amount of “Labor” spon-
sorship.
• •
Extract from a report on Melbourne’s
progress prepared by form-five students
at Melbourne High School:
When the Housing Commission was set
up to effect slum-clearance, 6100 slum
houses were officially poted within five
miles of the G.P.O. Today there are 7400.
At the Seato talks in Manila Aus-
tralia has, besides R. G. Casey, knight
Alan Watt, Australian Commissioner at
Singapore; Rear-Admiral G. D. Moore,
Minister to Manila; A. D. McKnight,
assistant-secretary of the P.M.’s depart-
ment in Canberra'', S. Landau, assistant-
secretary of Defence; Brigadier T, J.
Daly, director of military ops. and plans ;
D. W. McNichol, head of the SEA branch
of External Affairs; L. E. Phillips and
T. V. Holland, of the Manila Legation
staff; and H. G. Marshall, Casey's pri-
vate secretary. Watt, McKnight, Landau,
McNichol and Daly were at the pre-
liminary talks, in preparation for the full-
scale discussion now under way.
• •
The Prime Minister, announcing that
Casey and officials would go to the
Seato affair, added that the only person
who had proposed that the P.M. and
two of his most senior Cabinet colleagues
should attend was a newspaper-writer.
“It didn’t come from me,” he said.
• •
Criticism of the changed land policy
in New Guinea left Territories Minister
Paul Hasluck unmoved, although he
claimed that basic policy was unaltered.
Native-ownership of land was respected,
he said, and only the Administration
could acquire land from the natives, and
then only if they were willing to sell and
the land was not or would not be needed
for native use. But instead of the Govern-
ment continuing to accede to the wishes
of land-seekers, it would itself decide in
advance what land was to be available
fof settlement. The improved availability
of land was shown by the fact that in the
last four years 100,000 acres had been
open for settlement. “There is no
shortage of land for any genuine land-
seeker in the Territory,” he added.
• •
Last week in the Tasmanian Assembly
a bill to increase members from 30 to
35 to overcome “deadlocks” (Tasmania
has been governed by one Independent
member for several years) was passed in
an atmosphere of co-operation usually
preserved for Parliamentary salary-
increases. A suggestion that a reduction
of five members would give the same
result was ignored, of course. It is
expected that the Upper House will pass
the legislation, multiplying itself in the
process.
• •
♦
Sheahan, N. S. Wales Attorney-
General, in order to recuperate from the
toils of a Parliamentary recess nearly a
year in length and from several retreats
during which he has “not been available
for questioning,” has set out on a tour of
the Barrier Reef in the Orion. He is
bound for Papua, which should at least
be more restful for him* than Inverell,
. where the Quinns live.
• • •
A hat-company director from the
U.S.A. brought with him a Stetsop
valued at £670. Its capacity is a mere
10 gallons, but despite the fact that
it is trimmed with silver and is decorated
with a golden calf’s-head he can take it
home. No buyers here —it isn’t big
enough for Calwell.
• •
Mansfield (Vic.) Council wants to be
given the Eildon township, built for the
workers on the Eildon Dam project. It
cost the Government £2,000,000, aqjd is
up for auction as a tourist centre, but
the council says it ought to have it as
compensation for land ceded for the dam.
Premier Cain says the council’s request
is illogical—just as illogical, no doubt, as
Premier Cosgrove’s request to be left
alone with Tatt.’s.
• •
Star-gazing in the A.C.T. isn’t confined
to Parliament House. At Stromlo obser-
vatory a few miles away a large amount
of astronomical work of international
importance is accomplished, and it will
increase soon. From July, 1950, to the
end of last June £174,037 had been spent
on the 74-inch telescope and housing now
being erected, and £10,291 on the Yale-
Columbia universities’ telescope. There
is a big programme of work awaiting
these instruments.
• •
“Stromlo”; If A. D. Fraser’s waiting
game pays off, and in the clash of Can-
berra caucus personalities he contrives to
pluck the nettle of “Labor” leadership,
he will do well to study some of the
finer points of politics of which he
appears ignorant. The humorless venom
of his attacks on the Prime Minister, for
example, won’t gain him anything with
swinging voters, and an ungenerous atti-
tude towards opponents generally will not
commend him to Australians of any
political persuasion. At the declaration
of the last poll he spoke slightingly of
the absence of his opponent, and fol-
lowed this with a broadcast sneer on the
same subject. It is a pity, because Fraser
has ability of a kind, and has kept clear of
some of the partisan cliques in his own
party. Although ageing Gallery corres-
pondents, formerly his own contem-
poraries, are apt to describe him as a
“young” man, he is well into his fifties,
and a little soured by the prospect of a
long spell in the wilderness for “Labor.”
• •
“M’boro”: In Brisbane the meat-
supply picture has become confused.
Only one thing stands out clearly: lamb
and mutton are “off” in most homes, beef
is scarce, and a number of butcher-shops
have closed. Crux of the problem appears
to be that stock for slaughtering is bought
at open auction, where prices are forced
up by N. S. Wales buyers, then carcasses
must be sold at “ceiling price.” Mean-
while, as sausages take a thrashing in
Brisbane homes, meat-growers are boy-
cotting Brisbane and its troubles, sending
their stock south of the border.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A T last I’m acquainted with Nellie
Melba’s birthplace. A New Aus-
tralian friend, a great admirer of the
diva when he lived in Europe, stopped
me in the street and told me excitedly
that he had just seen the beautiful castle
she was born in. Driving along Burnley-
street, Richmond, a few days later I
thought I would look for Melba’s
“castle.” There it was —a large, red-
brick factory devoted to the manufacture
of a popular device for cleaning greasy
dishes. A brass-plate stated that “Dame
Nellie Melba was born on this site. May
19, 1861.”—“Melbn.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Lao-dah”: The Redfem (N.S.W.)
council’s notice, “No dogs, horses,
bicycles or other vehicles allowed in this
reserve” (B. 25 /8 / ’54), recalls the charge
that was constantly made tand is still
often quoted) against the mainly British
municipal council of the International
Settlement of Shanghai that it had a
notice on its park on the Bund, “Dogs
and Chinese not allowed.” This was not
true in fact, though it may have been
in spirit. Among other things, the notice
said that no Chinese, except amahs
attending on European children, were
permitted to enter. The reference to
dogs occurred several paragraphs further
down. Lumped together, however, “dogs
and Chinese” made a very effective slogan
when the movement started to oust the
white-man from his reservations., Now
“I don't think this is quite right—but it IS very comfortable, madam."
that yellows are Reds and Reds are yellow,
I wonder what the notice says?
“Viper”: Going without food was the
late Mr. Gandhi’s method of getting his
own way. Can we be in for a posthumous
spread of his principles? A report from
Calcutta says that Professor J. B. S.
Haldane has just fasted for three days to
atone for being rude to a journalist. I
commend this idea to those of our own
community who seem for ever at logger-
heads with their bosses. “Wharfies Re-
fuse Food” would give a weary public
new zest for the daily headlines. Public-
transport employees might garner more
sympathy by adopting similar tactics.
Even the most flinty hearted could not
fail to be moved by so
pathetic a spectacle as this:
An emaciated bus-conductor,
on’ the 30th day of his
union’s hunger-strike, gamely
tottering down the aisle of
his bus, croaking “Fez
Pleez” in tones like Poe’s
raven.
5* ❖ *!♦
“Kelms”: In the welter of
town-planning going on in
Perth it’s been suggested that
Parliament House should be
completeid. It was com-
menced in 1902 on a site
which is still about the best
in the city. At the time the
old Barracks were considered
an eyesore, and a 1901 edi-
torial confidently predicted
that “the Barracks will, of
course, be removed when the
new building is erected.”
Construction was far enough
advanced in 1904 to house
the State’s fifth Parliament,
and it was expected that the
building would be finished in
a few years. The builders left
iron straps protruding from
the brickwork for the benefit
of whoever carried on with
the job, and if those straps
haven’t rusted too much
during the 50 years they’ve
been exposed, no doubt the
gesture will be appreciated.
It will be nice to have the
building finished, if only to see if that
editorial prophecy is fulfilled. The
Barracks are still in use. In fact, they’ve
recently been added to.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metralia”: Self-closing doors on
Sydney’s trains, which have been sug-
gested, would merely squash the un-
squashable. His daily ride, protruding
from the train, and attached to it only by
his index-finger and one toe, livens the
greyness of this commuter’s life. Real
cause of danger is overcrowding, which
staggered trading-hours would relieve.
With- shops open till 10 p.m., more over-
time would be earned, more time in which
to spend it, higher profits, and increased
national prosperity. Perhaps opposition
to staggered hours stems partly from the
human need for a drink after the day’s
work. Is our national economy geared to
the six-o’clock swill?
“Arthur F.”: Best aviation news for
some time is that the first Australian-
made helicopter is about to be built.
Tests on a model have been successfully,
completed, and the first machine is
expected to take the air early next year.
Adaptability of this type of aircraft to
many varying jobs in peace as well as war
is excellent. A chimney-inspector in
Toronto (Canada) recently rescued from
the top of a 150 ft. smokestack realised
this when he saw the ’copter flying to-
wards him. He had clung there, precari-
ously for six hours after a steel ladder
inside the chimney had broken.
♦j *X* *l*
“Bo”: Visiting-time at the maternity
hospital. Sire of the infant glanced at
his watch and said “Showing’s on,” and
he led us triumphantly out of the ward
to the outside of a room partitioned to
the ceiling by glass. He held up a paper
with his surname written on it boldly, and
shortly a-masked nurse wheeled in the
new family member, to be admired anti-
septically, the vitreous wall forming an
impregnable bastion against the wogs
with which no doubt We all teemed.
“It doesn't tell you how to cook toast."
Excellently hygienic, and what a contrast
to the free-and-easy methods of the little
private hospital in which my first-born
arrived! I recall that in the two-bed
“ward” another young father and myself
were admitted almost simultaneously,
boj;h births being so close together as to
prove an embarrassment to the establish-
ment’s limited resources. Eventually
things—including the babies —were sorted
out and the infants duly brought in to be
parked for a while with their mothers.
The other bloke plucked his infant from
its mother’s arm and came across to
the wife’s bed. “Would you mind switch-
ing on that bedside wireless-set?” he
asked. We obliged. As the volume came
on he looked anxiously at his hour-old
heir, then his face took on a stricken
look and he hurried back. “You’d better
see the doc. about it first thing tomorrow,
Barbara,” he said worriedly. “It didn’t
seem to hear —I think it’s stone-deaf! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nakh”; I see there’s to be new
research into the relation, if any, between
lung-cancer and smok-
ing. One of the subjects
of study will be the
emotional make-up of
smokers. It is the only
thing the researchers
should concern them-
selves with. They
needn’t bother as to
whether nicotine is a
poison; it can also be
a solace. Freud was a
chain-smoker, 20 cigars
a day. It was a neurotic
habit, but it didn’t pre-
vent him producing
great works. He died of
cancer of the lip at
over 80 ; the cigars may
have produced the
cancer, but it is super-
fluous to say that he
might have lived to a
hundred if he hadn’t
smoked at all, because
we don’t know if the
cigars didn't help his inspiration. But if
a person goes to a pub every night and
all he produces is sclerosis of the liver,
we couldn’t say that his form of solace
had been very useful —any more than, if
a person smoked 40 cigarettes a day,
like I do, and all he produced was a lot
of cigarette-butts and a fortune for the
cigarette-manufacturers, it could be said
he had been particularly successful in
his choice of Solace. So it all boils
down to the adage that one man’s meat
is another man’s poison—i.e., it is a
matter of association. And all the
statistics in the world about cigarettes
and lung-cancer won’t alter that fact.
❖ *X* *l*
Cruiser ’: There have been some
whopping awards in compensation cases
lately, but for unusualness £6BO damages
to a Melbourne undertaker’s widow in
1932 takes some beating. It was argued
that the death of the husband from
pneumonia was ascribable to an act of
reverence when he stood hatless in the
rain by a graveside, and that the injuries
received were due to the nature of his
employment.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fairf”: A visitor to Granville (Syd-
ney) Technical College on “Open Day,”
I was fascinated by a work of art in the
plumbers’ section. Without having been
cut, melted, seamed, chiseled or moulded
in any way, a flat piece of 61b. (61b. to the
square foot) sheet-lead had been beaten
out to a life-sized bust of Julius Cesar
that seemed as though it must have been
sculptured out of a solid block. Point-
ing it out to another visitor, I said:
“These modern arty-crafty ratbags who
New "Bulletin" Serial
"FEATHER YOUR NEST"
BY E. O. SCHLUNKE
First Instalment Next Week
twist a few pieces of wire and steel to-
gether and claim they’ve produced a
masterpiece ought to be made to look
at that —just to show ’em what a real
artist can do with a commonplace metal.’
The chap nodded, his eye on a length
of two-inch pipe upon which students had
demonstrated their brazing skill. “They
wouldn’t give it a second glance,” he
declared. “Now, if you could enter that
piece of tortured pipe in a contemporary-
art show under the title of ‘Frustrated
Man’ they’d hail the perpetrator as a
greater genius than Epstein.” It would
be a great joke—if it wasn’t so darn sure
of coming off.
*** * ❖
“Spokeshave”: The revival of archery
in Victoria some years ago aroused de-
risive comment, but it has at last got one
achievement to its credit, though not done
by a club-member. Peter Coventry, a 12-
year-old Williamstown boy, bought an
archery set at Christmas for 375. 6d.,
after practising the ancient art for a while
he put his weapon on one side and forgot
it. The other morning cries of “Snake,
came from a near-by migrants’ hostel.
Peter grabbed his bow and his clothyard
shaft, and, hurrying to the scene, dis-
patched the reptile with two well-directed
arrows through its backbone.
TROWL THE BOWL
When Sydney Bungs gave picture-shows
The bar-room life was one to live;
Then brewers, feeling films should close,
Supplied a double-negative;
But films may go and films may
come —
I always take a bottle home.
When Bungs responded, “Oh, what rot ! —
From now, live artists will appear,”
The brewers answered, “Yours is not
A flesh-and-blood-house ! Only beer!”
But flesh may go and blood may
come —
I always take a bottle home.
When Government said clubs and pubs
Should have the same bar-closing time,
The democrats in Sydney clubs
Denounced this bureaucratic crime;
But pubs may go and clubs may
come —
I always take a bottle home.
L’envoi :
A bottle home ! A bottle home !
And red wine—not that muddy
foam !
No arguments; no “Time please,
gents !”
For those who take a bottle home !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T'HE phone-booths on Sydney’s Wyn-
-*■ yard Station were all occupied ; as
we waited a New Australian came up
and addressed the slightly inebriated
gent, near me; “Excuse, plizz. Is it that
you could obliging with three of the
He could and did, but when
the trey was offered in exchange waved
it away and made a sporting proposition:
“Look, mate, a brum’s not much use to
either of us. Tell you what —I’ll toss you
for two-bob.” ”He produced a florin,
spun it, caught it on the back of his hand,
then ordered: “You call. Heads or
tails?” The New Aussie didn’t under-
stand. “Gawn,” prompted the other.
“Heads or tails?” In an uncomprehend-
ing voice the N.A, repeated the last word.
The spinner lifted his hand. “Tails she
is,” he announced, handed the coin over
and dived for a booth. I can still see
the bewildered expression on the winner’s
face as he tried to figure out just why a
“What—no geiger-counter ?”
stranger should give him two-shillings
for the privilege of presenting him with
three pennies.—“Swelpme.”
* A A
“An Chuidh”: Apparently Wales has
altered a lot since I was there two years
ago. Then no Welshman spoke Welsh
deliberately in front of “foreigners” to
emphasise his nationalism, as Charles
Shaw found (B. 18/8/’54). I never yet
stumbled on two Welshmen talking in
anything but Welsh; they always pre-
ferred it to English, After all, any mug
can speak English. Incidentally, in Shaw’s
own New South Wales there’s a pub
where most of the conversation is in
Welsh, and the pub always shuts with the
Welsh National Anthem,
K* *** ❖
“Kelms”: I’ll bet “Muskeen’s” War I
show, “The Verey Lights” (B. 18/8/’54),
was spelt like that, because that’s how
the lights and the pistol are still spelt in
the Australian forces. But it’s wrong.
The lights were named after their inven-
tor, Samuel W. Very, and the correct
spelling is “Very” lights—or pistol.
' ♦♦♦
“X.S.”: The Preston allotment-owner
who gleefully told “Melbn” (B. 25/8/’54)
that he had discovered that the Victorian
Housing Commission had built a cottage
on a block of which he still held the
title would have been better advised if
he had held his peace. When informed
of its “mistake,” that bureaucratic organ-
isation blandly announced that there had
been no mistake whatever. It pointed out
that if the owner of a compulsorily
acquired block refused consent the
commission simply moved in and started
operations. Both house and land are
legally the commission’s, and the Preston
man is an illegal squatter.
"BULLETIN" CONTRIBUTORS
AS noted in the Red Page'reviewing of
his thoughtful and, in its im-
portant little book, Vance Palmer, in
The Legend of the Nineties (Melbourne
University Press), devotes all of one of
his nine chapters to surveying and
analysing the nature and influence of
The Bulletin, “The Bushman’s Bible.”
In that Bulletin chapter, referring to
J. F. Archibald, Mr. Palmer says:
There were few writers [available in
Australia] at the time: they had to be
drawn out of the void and given a chance
to prove themselves. It was only by
encouraging a great number of writers, each
with an individual point of view and a
fund of personal experiences, that the
country could be shown in all its varied
activities. There were the different regions,
the different jobs, the different ways of
talking and thinking.
Mr. Palmer further says, regarding
Archibald:
He gave the country a concrete reality
by drawing into his pages all who had
something to say about their work or the
life in which they were immersed —the
shearer, the swagman, the Government
official, the engineer....
These and similar passages inspired a
little checking-up on that particular
aspect of The Bulletin’s character, then
and now.
The first thing found —and this, it
would seem, might possibly surprise Mr.
Palmer —was that there are far more
outside contributors in any and every
issue of The Bulletin today than there
were in any issue in the period Mr.
Palmer deals with (the paper’s first 20
years, from 1880 on).
Moreover, if a comparative check could
be made, it would as good as certainly
be found that today’s outside contribu-
tors in any issue of The Bulletin
a re more widely dispersed about
Australia as a whole and are, as well,
more representative of the total life of
the community than were those of any
issue in the paper’s first 20 years,
These findings are not merely say-so:
they are based on checks made since Mr.
Palmer’s book came in for review, and
on one very interesting check in par-
ticular.
In the normal course of things neither
The Bulletin, as a matter of policy, nor
its present literary staff, as individuals,
is concerned with the callings, or for that
matter the-whereabouts, of outside con-
tiibutors. Their pars, articles, verse,
stories and drawings come in, are distri-
buted around, and those rated good
enough are welcomed and duly published
“Stop demonstrating take-offs in the mess , Kiteley."
and paid for. To check-up on those
interesting comments of Mr. Palmer’s it
was decided to count the individual out-
side contributors to any current issue
and tn find nut if nossihlp their callings
ana to nna out, u possmie, meir cartings.
For that purpose the great majority of
them had, of course, to be individually
written to, so there would naturally have
fr. i™ o tlma Korean tUc
to be a time-lag between the reading of
Mr. Palmer’s book and the publishing of
anything that could be thus learned. It
was decided that the latest Bulletin to
u-ux/r u- iruj
which Mr. Palmer himself had con-
tributed would do for the check: the
overall and detailed results will be found,
hv flnvnnp whn rnros. tn make a similar
Dy anyone wno cares to make a similar
check, to hold good for any issue, any
week, including the present one.
The issue thus taken (in which Mr.
Palmer had a short-story) was the recent
one of 28/7/’54 (the check was started
a fortnight or so later).
For a start, the count showed a total
in that one issue of no fewer than 66
individual outside contributors.
That is a nrettv tidv total for anv
mat is a pretty tiay total tor any
paper anywhere to be able to claim. It
is certainly more than any other Aus-
tralian paper can lay claim to ; and it is
certainly a good many more than any
given issue of The Bulletin of the period
dealt with by Mr. Palmer could show.
And that, it can fairly be emphasised,
■ r , ~ ~ n i
is for one week only. Mr. Palmer sweeps
over a 20-years’ period: how many
mw 1 would producer vlried
they would be, can be left to somebody
parallel in present Australian journalism
(AS a passing incidental the known age-
range of these contributors runs all the
way f m a 15-year-old N.S.W. printer s-
sfvLrTld “
87-year-o d Queenslander )
In the letters to the 66 outside contn-
butors of July 28 an undertaking was
given that the identity of none of them
would be revealed. Hence, only their
States or countries, along with their call-
ings, will be given in the following
record, taking the issue page by page;
nr • nsw i i-
UNSIGNEE):' New Zealand journalist.
“MUGGA WAY”: Canberra journalist.
ec ! i f or -
■■emjaiT^Vktok?iaik-i“tor W '
“HORSESHOE BAR”: N.S.W. woman
on the land.
“CEG”: Victorianbank-manager.
“ARCHAEN” : ' South P °Austr°alian’jour-
nalist.
“HORNCASTLE” : Queensland journa-
Tasmanian public servant.
“SISTER ELLELL”: South Australian
nursing sister.
“BALWYN”r, Victorian clerk.
agent ULUVER = N-S w * a vertism §
“GYRO JOE”: N.S.W. fitter and turner.
“V.J.H.”: West Australian telegraphist.
MULLUM : N.b.W. bank omcial.
“SPINIFEX” : N.S.W. mounted police-
man.
“PHIL ANTHUS”: A leading Australian
naturalist and author.
UNSIGNED: New Guinea plantation-
employee; former fighter-pilot.
“5 G. R.”: Victorian circulation-manager.
UNSIGNED: No reply; probably New
Zealand journalist.
UNSIGNED: West Australian journalist.
UNSIGNED: N.S.W. metallurgist.
“MIKE”: N.S.W. insurance-salesman.
“ROTHJAY”: Victorian journalist.
WILL LAWSON: Author.
“HANKO”: No reply; Victorian.
“BILLY T.”: N.S.W. schoolteacher.
“NONNEL”: N.S.W. farmer and grazier.
“KELMS” : West Australian proofreader,
NS^florist!^ 111311,
“f>. MOBILE” : N.S.W. oil-geologist,
“G.P.”: N.S.W. proofreader.
VANCE PALMER: Author.
T INGLIS MOORE: Canberra Uni-
versity lecturer.
MABEL WALN SMITH: Ex-U.S.A.,
ex-China, ex-p.0.w.; at present N.S.W.
author and housewife; sister of Nora Wain,
E M ENGLAND : Queensland author;
country woman.
UNSIGNED: N.S.W. accountant.
UNSIGNED : N.S.W. sporting-writer.
UNSIGNED: N.S.W. proofreader,
M F DIXON: Former manager of the
A.B.C. news-service.
E. G. BONNEY: Canberra travel-agent.
CLEM LACK: Queensland journalist.
<. QUO V ADIS”: Queensland market-
gardener.
“CRUNCH”: Victorian journalist.
“J<=> CK w ” : South Australian private
C °“CAVE” : N.S.W. estate-agent,
“McD.”: Victorian law student,
“H.R.”: Fiji; librarian.
“JH- ALL” : N.S.W. pubhc-rela ions
° “WACKFORD” : N.S.W. schoolteacher.
“W.P.T.”: N.S.W. railway clerk.
E. O. SCHLUNKE: N.S.W. wheatfarmer.
“BILLJIM”: Victorian journalist.
“ANN”: N.S.W. railway clerk.
“TOGGENBURG” : South Australian
country woman. ,
2is r t NIGO JONES: Queens an e
81 “saw GUM”: N.S.W. retired agricul-
tural officer.
“B;JL ”^,Q u ® enslart 4 su ? ai >ff rn ?!: r '
“METAX : Tasmanian draftsman,
“VEGA” : Queensland mixed-farmer,
“TIDBINBILLA” : A.C.T. astronomer.
Tnclude ’ miner,
f T er ; T a T\ "SSL °2
motor-travel p.onecr Regular Army
whf wafTn
Englis j!, international Ru gby Union for-
. a comm ercial-shipping employee, a
couple of all-round bush wmkers, a soft-
warehouseman and one or two
rs
x . x , . , , „
The list, too, it will be noticed, includes
no P°hticians, shearers or judges, though
°. ne or two bave 111 issues
s ' nce > as have a former noted Domain
orator, a radio-man in Papua, an engmeei,
a surveyor, a beekeeper, a university pro-
fessor, a sea-captain, a greenkeeper (ex-
wharfie), a canecutter, an archdeacon, a
Solomon Islands Government official, an
ex-seaman, an aiiman in Japan, an 1.C.1.
technical research officer, the professor
head of atomic research at Sydney Univer-
sity, a shipyard worker at Kure (Japan),
a'former Australian lightweight cham-
pion, a Manus plantation-manager,
a Brisbane radio-announcer, and a
ranch f. r m Argentina to mention merely
a scattered few of them. And, finally,
the Australian addresses represented in
the list and since range from Darwin
down to south of Hobart and across and
Up to Wittenoom in W.A.
THE BULLETIN takes this Opportunity
to wish them all, a little in advance, a
,
merry Christmas and more power to their
pens, and the same to Mr. Palmer.
FILM MYSTERIES
The screen fight you witness —
Ah, what test of fitness!
That hero’s punch — ooh, what a
beauty!
Down crashes the baddie,
But straightway that laddie
Leaps up—after all, it’s his duty.
Hammer-blows they are swapping;
The baddie is copping
It now —at the knees soon he buckles.
Yet, with all that connecting,
You’d not be detecting
One mark on the tough goodie’s
knuckles.
The heroine’s active
As well as attractive;
She essays the densest of jungles.
The guys who are with her
May get in a dither.
But that glamor-girl never bungles.
She’ll find her way through it —
There’s just nothing to it.
At last triumph crowns her endeavor.
Despite snakes and leeches\,
Objective she reaches
With paintwork and perm, good as ever.
The gold-coach is swaying.
The driver is flaying
His team, while behind him come
flying
On foam-covered horses
The bold bandit forces;
To shoot down that crittur they’re
trying.
The leader, you’re noting,
A six-shooter’s toting.
Count steadily, now, for he’ll pot him —
That’s the famed Cisco Kid, sirs.
You saw what he did, sirs ?
Took seventeen shots ere he got him!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Keep in
good
spirits
GhXancb
(W#r stßEN gTH
-HOSPITAL
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The chemical degrees of Sir Robert
Robinson (including a Melbourne Univer-
sity D.Sc.) make up a formidable formula.
Among his notable achievements were
the winning of the Nobel prize for
chemistry in 1947 (at that time he was
president of the Royal Society) and a
pioneering hand in the development of
penicillin. He now becomes president of
the British Association for 1955. Back
in 1912 he was the first professor of pure
and applied organic chemistry at Sydney
University, at 26.
• • '
“Macnell”: Owning a shipboard
address for the greater part of his more
than 30 years in the R.A.N., Captain
Henry Mackay Burrell anchors for a
bit, berth Navy Office, deputy to Chief
of Naval Staff John Collins. Burrell’s
first ship was the Sydney, parent of
Collins’s Mediterranean Sydney, grand-
parent of the present carrier. He was the
first commanding-officer of destroyer
Norman, in which he took, in 1942, Sir
Walter Citrine and a British delegation
to Russia; had her in company with
carrier Hermes and valiant little Vam-
pire when Japs bombed those two to the
bottom off Ceylon; and in the savage
Malta convoy when Nestor, sister to
Norman, was lost. Last war-time com-
mand was Tribal destroyer Bataan, which
he commissioned in mid-1945 and
worked-up in time to do stout work in
the Pacific and to see the Jap delegates
arrive in Manila Bay to receive sur-
render instructions from Mac Arthur;
and later to see the surrender signed in
Tokyo Bay. Owning the bushiest eye-
brows in the Fleet, he goes to St. Kilda-
road from the bridge of carrier Ven-
geance, his conning position for the past
two years.
• •
The time is not yet when the Indian
tani and his family, in their millions, will
spend their evenings sitting over the radio
or gaping at television, but A. C. Ram-
chandani, now in Melbourne, thinks that
the time is not far distant when every
village of 1000 to 5000 will have com-
munity receivers. Engineer-in-chief to
All India Radio, the visitor broadcasts in
12 languages, from 22 stations. He is in
Australia under the Colombo Plan to buy
broadcasting equipment to extend his net-
work.
• •
“Fitz”: A few weeks back The
Bulletin received two pieces of verse,
signed ,“G. L. Faine,” from an
old reader in Queensland who, in a note,
mentioned that he was Frederick Bennett
and aged 87. The verses looked at first
sight to be sitting-shots for the basket.
Closer inspection revealed that they were
certainly good enough for publication.
Someone in the office happened to
know that between 50 and 60 years ago
there appeared now and then in The
Bulletin bush verse with such titles as
“The Drunken Shearer,” “The Old
Hand” and “A Tinpot Station,” the
work of a Queenslander who signed his
verses “G. L. Faine.” For some unex-
plained reason “G. L. Fame’s ’ contribu-
tions stopped round about 1904.
It has now been established that the
two “G. L. Faines” are the same, and that
Frederick Bennett has made a comeback
after half a century’s retirement from
the poetical field—a record in the history
of The Bulletin.
Bennett, bom in 1867 at Drayton, on
Queensland’s Darling Downs (where also
“Steele Rudd” was bora the following
year), was a teacher for 52 years.
Among his early friends were other
Bulletin contributors, including “Steele
Rudd,” Randolph Bedford, Francis
Kenna, Jack Mathieu, Emily Bulcock
and Mabel Forrest.
Bennett is a Bachelor of Science, was
once hon. secretary of the Royal Society
of Queensland, and chess editor of ‘Bris-
bane Courier.” As a chess-player he is
well-known in British chess circles as a
contributor to “The Problemist.” And,
incidentally, if it may be thought that a
chess-player is not a man of action,
Bennett has in the course of his long
life saved several people from drowning.
One of his recent verses, “The Ghost
Town,” appears in this week’s “Aborigin-
alities.”
• •
Charles Prendergast, the forests-officer
and cattleman who guided the rescuers
to the R.A.A.F.. Dakota which crashed
recently in the almost impenetrable forest
of Mount Cobboras (Vic.), has an in-
herited instinct for that country. His
ancestors pioneered Benambra a century
ago and spread from there over northern
Gippsland and across the frontier into the
Monaro. There are scores of them today,
settled or more-or-less nomad, their
cattle with the “P” brand scrambling
over hundreds of miles of wild country.
• •
Rodent to write about an immortal
band of ’em, Barton Maughan has been
selected to put down the official history
of the Tobruk siege and the Alamein
campaign. Memory will provide local
color, Maughan having seen more than
enough of both places to satisfy his re-
quirements. Alamein brought him M.C.,
and by war’s end he was lieutenant-
colonel. These days he is industrial offi-
cer at Broken Hill with the Zinc
Corporation,
• t
Interviewing conductor Warwick
Braithwaite (herewith, by fellow-Kiwi
Moore), a Bulletin man found himself
neatly conducted round to listening about
celebrities in another medium —Phil May,
Low, Norman Lindsay and all the other
Lindsays —and that artist (later, on check-
ing, found to be Prior) who had cari-
catured the visiting conductor back in
1947: Braithwaite being so taken with
the sketch he had the original sent on to
ROAMING MAORILANDER
him in London. That’s where the roam-
ing Maorilander has been since 1916 —
except, that is, when he was conducting
just about every orchestra of importance
in the U.K., and in Munich, Hamburg,
Paris, Florence and Johannesburg. In
1941 he was batoning the Scottish
National Orchestra —mentioned specific-
ally only because they apparently work
their musicians hard in the Land o’
Cakes; in one season Braithwaite con-
ducted 150 concerts. Alert, genial, the
conductor hobbies with theatre; one
reason behind his accepting the conduc-
torship of the National Opera Company
of Australia.
A prize which has a strange history,
and which is awarded once in every fifth
anniversary of the donor’s death 120
years ago, has been handed by Victorian
Premier Cain to Professor Paton, Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne University.
Dr. Swiney was an obscure Scotch
doctor who lived a secluded life in
London. He died in 1844, leaving a parcel
with mysterious injunctions to the Society
of Arts. It was found to contain a totally
unknown person’s will in the society’s
favor. Some years later £5OOO came -the
society’s way from the estate of Dr.
Swiney—and this helped to purchase the
silver cup valued at £125 and provide
the £lOO cheque handed to Professor
Paton for his Textbook on Jurispru-
dence. The only previous Australian
recipient is C. K. Allen, who got it in
1944, when a lecturer at Oxford, for his
book Law in the Making.
• •
Chemistry, soldiering and literature
were the major interests in the life of
Colonel George Dorricutt Shaw (passed
on in Adelaide). Born, at Hindmarsh
(S.A.) 71 years ago, he was polished at
the School of Mines, and in War I was
a captain of the 10th Battalion at the
Landing, known on Gallip. as “one of
the gamest officers we ever struck.”
Later, in France in 1918, he took over
command of the 12th. With earlier
experience as chemist and metallurgist *to
the WWlaroo and Moonta Mines, after
War I he became senior analyst in
South Australia’s State Department of
Chemistry. Back on duty for War 11,
he was, for almost the whole of it, S.A.
Commissioner of Civil Defence, respon-
sible for the training of more than 40,000
voluntary workers, as well as for the
State’s blacking-out. On the literary
side he was an old Bulletin contribu-
tor and his “Personal Effects” was pro-
duced in 1933 by the S.A. Repertory
Society, of which he was a playing
member.
• •
Royal Melbourne Technical College is
paying a tribute to its retiring art-head,
Harold R. Brown, by putting on
a retrospective exhibition of art
and architecture, not done by
himself but by past pupils.
Brown began his studies in the
Ballarat Art School, was busy
with the Kaiser for four years,
and returned to a rehabilitation
course, which in those days
wasn’t as handsome as it is now.
He became head of the art-
school at Melbourne Tech, in
1931', and in a few short years
vitalised the institution. He also
established the School of Archi-
tecture and raised it to full
Diploma standard, in line with
Melbourne University. Today
the school fairly buzzes, with its
185 day and 1039 part-time
pupils. “Old boys” whose works
are on exhibition include Wil-
liam Dargie, James Farrell,
Harold Freedman, Leonard
French, sculptor Stanley Ham-
mond, John D. Loxton, archi-
tect Peter Newell, Max Newton,
The Bulletin’s old friend Dick
Ovenden, Loudon Sainthill (de-
signer for ballet), Kenneth Ross,
Raymond Ewers and Erie Smith,
the Blake religious-prize painter
—pretty well a cross-section of
the art community of Melbourne, modern
and not-so-modern.
• •
Marching out of Western Command,
Major-General R. Bierwirth goes up to
command the British Commonwealth
Forces in Korea. A robust 55, he gradu-
ated from Duntroon in time for France,
1918,-and »in War II was in the Middle
East, after which he scored C.B.E. for
sound staff-work in the Bougainville,
New Britain and Wewak operations.
Lately Australian defence representative
in London.
In this Prior picture, E. O. Schlunke
looks more the writer he is than the
farmer he also is. Sticking to things
whereof he knows, he has combined both
arts to some effect. Periodically for the
past 20 years Schlunke stories have
appeared in The Bulletin ; mostly
of farming, always sincere, mainly
humorous. Owns, too, to several news-
paper serials; adding to this list his
Feather Your Nest, which starts in next
week’s Bulletin, and which indicates
FARMER-AUTHOR
that he knows the city just about as well
as he knows the Riverina, where the
comedy-novel’s plot is chiefly set. A
collection of his short stories. The Man
in the Silo (all except one printed in The
Bulletin) is being published by Angus
and Robertson, under a Commonwealth
literary grant. Farmer Schlunke was
born in the Temora district of N.S.W.,
where he farms the land his father fanfned
before him. Apart from trips to Sydney
(where the artist caught him) and a period
at Hurlstone Agricultural High, Schlunke
has stayed put round Temora, with his
sheep and wheat by day, putting ’em on
paper at night. He makes soil-conserva-
tion a special hobby,
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 78, Henry John Simper, business-
man and fer 21 years Perth City Councillor.
Actively interested in most sport, he had been
foundation- and life-member of the Fremantle
Rifle Club, past-president of the National Rifle
Association (W.A.), member of the W.A. Trot-
ting the Owners, Trainers and
Breeders’ Association and Leederville Bowling
Club, and vice-patron of the Wembley Athletic
Club. He was the oldest living member of
the Commercial Travellers’ Association (W.A.).
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 27, C. (“Sandy”)
Hurndell, one of the very best of New Zealand
Rugby League forwards. In 1948 he toured
Australia with the Kiwis; represented N.Z.
against Australia in 1949, and in 1950 played in
both Test-matches against Britain.
At 79, in Melbourne, John Augustin Bostock,
one of Victoria’s best-known pastoralists, Born
at Warrnambool, he spent his early life in
Queensland and then became associated with
Sir Clive McPherson in Roto, near Hillston
(N.S.W.). This year he was awarded an 0.8. E.
for his services to Mansfield Hospital (Vic.).
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 86, Daniel Cross
Bates, former Government Meteorologist.
Ordained to the Anglican ministry in Australia
in 1892, he crossed the Tasman, was a chaplain
in the Boer War and was present at the signing
of the Peace of Vereeniging. Taking to met
work, he represented N.Z. at meteorological
- conferences in Paris (1919) and Copenhagen
(1929).
In Perth, at 85, Alexander Douglas-Jones,
whose grandfather came to Westralia with
Captain Stirling irT 1829. After goldmining at
Southern Cross, the grandson ran a timber-
business at Guildford, then took up pastoral
work in the Carnarvon district He was one
of the earliest members of the Westrahan His-
torical Society, and a member of the W.A.
Hunt Club.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at. 82, Thomas Somer-
ville, chairman of the printing firm of Couus,
Somerville and Wilkie. Also president of the
N.Z. Federation of Master Printers, chairman
of directors of N-Z. Paper Mills, and a founda-
tion-member of Dunedin Rotary.


STRUCK OIL!


ABORIGINALITIES
T HE h ead of a Westrahan abo.
family I ran acioss the other
day rejoices m the name of
elde ? . so * 1S i ohl \ n y
Walker. Next, a girl, is Cherry Biandy.
Thereafter the strain apparently began
to weaken, for she was followed by
Ginger Beer (he gets Ginger, which .
seems an anomaly) and Apolhnans (Polly
ur short). The last of the fine is Adam.
No, tbe old man didn T here discard
beverages in favor of the Bible The full
name is Adam s Ale. Nimrod.
* * • *
“Betcha”: The late discussion here
on cattle and sheep always feeding into
the wind has at least proved amusing to
old stockmen. Why, dammit, some of the
explanations proffered sounded so rea-
sonable they should have been true,
though I’d hate to be the lost aviator
expected to find himself by observing
the direction of grazing cattle. The
theory that, by feeding into the wind,
cattle and sheep retain warmth through
keeping the pile of their coats flat should
be explained to the animals concerned,
for in a cold or wet wind, when their,
need is greatest, cattle mostly turn their
tails to the trouble. With sheep, their
wool, instead of lying flat, grows straight
out from the body, so is no less vulner-
able to wind-parting from any direction.
Would those with the rooted belief in up-
wind grazing please tell me what happens
when the mob reach the fence at the
far end of the paddock? Do they wait
hungrily for a change of wind, or do they
dash back and start again? I’m interested
because in my neek-of-the-woods,
whether it is .a 10-acre paddock, 1000
acres, or open range, the cattle go where
the feed is best. They feed north per-
haps in a lush gully, strike a bare slope,
and turn east,-west, or south with aimless
impartiality, provided only the feed
proves good.
* * * *
“B.”: “Where have all the hares come
from?” one hears commonly enough
when the long-ears are everywhere. The
number of young ones makes the ques-
tion foolish; but where, I want to know,
do the things go to? Three or four weeks
ago hares infested all the paddocks here-
abouts, and it was not unusual any even-
ing to see 15 or so in a half-mile ride.
Now, the same trip might not put up
one hare. Except for one or two my
sheep-pup fluked, they have not been
killed, nor have any dead ones been
spotted. “Travelled on to fresh green
pastures,” claim the wise-heads; but
even supposing in a year like this there
were such places, would it apply always?
Our 50-mile grazing valley is bounded
on all sides by virgin bush that wouldn’t
feed a rabbit. At its most accessible side
the bush would extend only 50 miles, and
while granting that miles wouldn’t be
much handicap to a hare, would he un-
erringly pick that direction, and tackle it
without knowing what was on the other
side? If not, where is he?
If I see a Capie staggering
a i on g one 0 f f be beaches (B. 16/6/’54)
pq welcome an old friend, but I won’t
try to pick him up. Capie, along with
most c f the Antarctic petrels, has an un-
pjeasan t habit of throwing a blob of oil
w hen anyone shows too much affection,
an( j tbat od smebs- At Heard or Ker-
guelen they live in the c ii ff . sid es, in tiny
crev j ces where their young are safe from
tbe raV aging skua-gulls, and can they
fly , m *n y ’ shivering hours
perched on the cliff-tops, in winds of
70-and-more miles an hour, watching
them feed the heavily-downed little ones.
No amount of wind upsets them. They
stand on their heads, motionless except
for a fluttering of wings and tail-feathers,
regurgitating the food down the young-
sters’ throats; and when the job is done,
they simply do a little flip and land on
the nearest ledge without ruffling a
feather. And that explains the hobbling
walk. Their legs have become fixed close
to their bodies so that they can move
about in confined spaces ; I was always
amazed that they could get into their
nests at all. But the best time to see
Capies is when the big elephant-seals are
killed for dog-food. Thousands of the
little fellows gather for the feast. They
grab a mouthful of blubbqr and pull
madly at it, dancing and leaping until the
portion comes loose, gobble it down and
come back for more, squabbling savagely
all the time. I’ve seen two fasten on to
a tiny piece of meat, one each end, and
fight like tigers to swallow it, while a few
“ And, gentlemen, we don't want any post-mortems."
feet away there was enough seal blubber
to feed the island’s Capie population for
six months!
* * # *
“Kros”; That “Uncabled Additions”
item on the necessity to dispose of radio-
active waste (B. 25/8/’54) touches on
what may well be a headache for suc-
ceeding generations. Strictly speaking, in
non-atomic matters there i$ no waste,
except in relation to the particular pro-
cess concerned ; those bits and pieces left
over will sooner or later, in the same
form or some other, be incorporated
once again in the flow and fluxion of life.
Not so, however, with radioactive waste.
Such waste, it seems, will have to be put
away where it will never again come in
contact with and so contaminate man-
kind —and life in general. As there is
so much left-over stuff, it looks as if
there must be a definite limit to the use
of atomic energy: firstly because the
earth may not be able to afford to have
too much matter thus dangerously and
uselessly tied-up, and secondly because
of limitation of possible hiding-places.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Fons,” who spoke of being
ashamed to look a blackfellow in the
face (B. 11 /8/’54), would sympathise with
members and supporters of a Westralian
country cricket-team. At least half the
team are natives, and sometimes an
opposing team has some native mem-
bers, too ; and after the match, when the
keg is broached, there’s always an un-
comfortable feeling, as it’s realised that
the natives can’t be asked to celebrate
the victory they’ve helped to win. The
natives accept the position with wonder-
ful sportsmanship and no apparent ill-
feeling, and they turn up again next week
and play as though they didn’t realise
the extent of the injustice. The position
was emphasised recently when a well-
educated native, a Government employee,
was asked to address some Perth business-
men. He pointed 4 out that he really
shouldn’t have been there —the meeting
was held on licensed premises, and it had
required a spedal dispensation from the
appropriate department to secure his
admission.
* ♦ ♦ ♦'
“Warrabulla”: If the march of pro-
gress, with the passing of the camel-
teams and the droving outfits, has
spared anything at all of the old out-
back I used to know, I hope it has left
the Boundary Store, in the Upper Gas-
coyne (W.A.). On the main road, but
miles from anywhere, it was conducted
on principles diametrically opposed to
the textbooks on How to Succeed in
Business. Each morning the then pro-
prietor breakfasted heartily on the best
his shelves afforded, as did the mate
who’d dropped in for a week or two •
cost debited to nothing at all. The pair
then opened the front door, cast them-
selves with cushions and newspapers on
the veranda and awaited the arrival of
dinner-time or a customer—the former
being the most frequent first arrival.
Similar industry prevailed throughout the
afternoon, until tea-time put a period to
trading for the day, after which the busy
merchant and his aide had recourse to
the crib-board until bed-time. Business,
'yhen any appeared, commenced with the
customer squatting on the veranda for a
yam while the mate put the kettle on,
and even the purchaser of a few tins of
tqbacco got a mug of tea and a wedge
°f brpwnie, as well as all the news for
miles around. Well I suppose it s got a
milk-bar and a juke-box by now, and a
f° w in fact, I wouldn t
be surprised to hear that the bloke who
™ns it even wears his boots in trading
■ ours '
* * * *
“Bass”: The little grebe, or dabchick
(B. 11/8/ ’54), has nothing on the com-
mon coot in the matter of nest-building,
or in the speed with which the young take
to the water. The coot builds a nest of
reeds, often just bending them over to
form a saucer and lining that with reeds
that are split and teased; but sometimes
it carts the reeds to a tea-tree thicket
and builds between a few tree-trunks,
Thus the nest is anchored to the extent
that it can’t float away, but it rises as the
swamp comes up. Once watched a nest
as a chick broke through an egg, and
timed the procedure. From when it
f mer g £ d to when it hit the water was
J ust un der two minutes. 1 doubt if it
ever B°t into the nest again,
* * * *
» K erba”: Don’t wholly agree with
that builder who wouldn’t have a stump-
hole on the foundation-line filled with
sand even’though the entire site was
covered with de * sand (B . i B/8 /’ 5 4).
It has long been the custom to put a
three . inch J ushion of sand in the trenches
be f ore laying a brick-foundation. Still,
m ost builders have their pet ideas. Build-
jn g on treacherous clay, one wiil go to
e i abora te lengths to keep water out of
t he foundations, arguing (quite rightly)
th a t clay swells amazingly when wet, and
more cracks in buildings are caused by
than shrinkages. , Another will
con t e nd that the trenches should be
fl ooded as soon as they are dug out, thus
sws ih n g the clay before the weight goes
on A builder wit h the latter view con-
fidently contracted for a job on a site
ba j. was ‘notoriously bad for brick
houses, every other brick cottage on the
estate having developed badly cracked
walls. If a job is going to crack it gener-
ally starts within the first year. That
place didn’t. Nor had it cracked three
years later. I was convinced that soaking
the trenches was the answer to the clay
problem. Then came a long, scorchingly
hot, dry spell. The house cracked in prac-
tically every wall. Apparently the clay
had dried out, with subsequent sub-
sidences.
THE GHOST TOWN
We rode through what was Clayford
And viewed it with regret.
It brought back thoughts of pioneers
We never could forget.
The foot-rot was a perfect curse;
The spear-grass quite a pest;
The early squatters tired at last
And took their sheep out west.
Yet still old Clayford struggled on—
The cattle came to stay;
The railways came on either side
And drew the folks away.
The old main road’s deserted;
No need for it remains;
The folks all go by railway
Because there’s daily trains.
The State school closed; the lock-up, too;
The old postmaster fled;
The store gave up f then the hotel:
That proved the town was dead!
A bushfire struck the graveyard.
Its fence is past repair.
The cattle graze among the graves—
There’s no one left to care.
I never hear a wonga now;
No “Condaminers” ring—
The bullockies went years ago;
The motor-truck is king.
There’s no buckjumping contests now;
True horsemanship is dead;
For now the youngsters learn to ride
A motor-bike instead.
I was a noted blacksmith once,
But now I’m unemployed.
Though pioneers remember well
The fame I once enjoyed.
“Old times are changed, old manners
gone.”
Folk prate of joys to be,
And I am left here all alone
To live on memory. '
Poor Clayford’s one more ghost-town,
As dead as dead can be;
And soon I’ll be a ghost myself
And keep her company.
QUEENSLAND.
G.L. FAINE.


WHEN “C.W.J.” saw two horses
holding a 4ft.-long stick in their
mouths, their noses almost touching (B.
18/8/’54), he witnessed an equine cere-
mony seldom seen by human eyes. Closer
inspection would have revealed that the
stick was pointing due north and south.
An old drover tells me this is the way
in which an old horse teaches a young
one the points of the compass, thus en-
suring that it will be able always to
find its way home even if its rider can’t.
—“Vega.”
♦ * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Those buried fresh-
water “jewfish” referred to by “Kin” (B.
11/8 / ’54), found at Warbreccan (Q.) in
the Thomson River catchment, carry a
lethal armament. Viewed full-face with
open mouth they present an uncanny
likeness to a modern jet-plane. Two
flesh-covered spines jut out at right-
angles near the gill-bases, and another
vertical spine is carried on top of a taper-
ing fuselage. They are retractable, with
razor-sharp points. When erect, the
needles are uncovered, to pierce the flesh
of an unwary handler. Intense agony
follows.
♦ * * *
“Clunesman”; Evaporation will take
its toll of Snowy waters when the scheme
is completed. Adaminaby Dam alone will
probably lose 600,000 acre-feet annually.
Two tanks of water in the Adaminaby
Valley, known as evaporimeters, are
fitted with hook-gauges to give an idea
of evaporation-rates. Wind is a more
important evaporating agent than sun.
Larger water-bodies lose comparatively
less, as the air-stream becomes saturated
after it has blown over a certain amount
of surface. Water in shallow storage-
areas is generally higher in evaporation-
rate.
“Loulalo”: Kangaroo names in abo.
dialects (B. 11/8/’54)? South of the
Divide from the Monaro the big red
fellow was called “Talla-toorook,” and
a property at South Buchan (Vic.) still
bears the name. Until at least a few
years ago, also, it still bore traces of
stumps set for a proposed building. This
was to have been an aboriginal station,
but the blacks refused to stay in the
vicinity after they saw a red
kangaroo hop across the ground.
The wallaroo and other grey
species were all right, but the rarer
red type presaged evil. The pro-
posed station was abandoned in
favor of one now existing at
Lake Tyers, about 25 miles to the
south.
“R.C.H.”: “Burra” was one of
the most commonly used words in
the abo. dialects. We find it used
for such widely separated places
as Binna Burra, Toolburra, Mutta-
burra (Q.); Burragorang, Burra-
doo, Burrawarig (N.S'.W.) and
Burra Burra (S.A.). Its meaning
evidently varied with different
tribes. “Ida D.” (B. 11/8/’54)
mentions “big,” and quotes
“burragorang” “big wallaroo.”
So, too, “kookaburra,” really
“kookooburra” as pronounced
by the abos, meaning “big koo-
koo.” In some tribes “burra”
signified “stop” or “wait,” and
sometimes “resting - place” or
“camp,” a similar idea. Repeti-
tion of the word, as in Burra
Burra, would intensify the mean-
ing. It can also refer to man,
fellow or person. Thus in Coola-
burragundy (or gundi), “coola”
means angry, “burra” fellow and “gundy”
me —i.e., angry fellow me.
“H.G.L.”: Can’t accept “Quo Vadis’s”
claim (B. 18 /8 / ’54) that Thurulgoona
station, near Cunnamulla, was the first to
strike artesian water. According to my
records Thurulgoona was the first to
make a start, but a bore at Blackall (C.Q.)
was the first to strike water. “Quo Vadis”
also claims that the bore at Bimerah
(W-Q.) is the deepest in Australia, if pot
in the world. The Bimerah bore, sunk in
’95, held that distinction until some 30
years ago, when Hart, of Springfield, in
the Blackall area, had a bore sunk on
his property which went down below
7000 ft.
* * * *
“John G.”: With labor for hand-slash-
ing and cleaning a bit short and most of
the available boys allocated to tapping
and other production essentials, parts of
the steep back-areas on the Papuan
“Bless my soul — it's YOU, Harry!”
rubber-estate had become an untidy
tangle of ground-covers, grass and self-
sown rubber-seedlings. Finally boys did
offer for this work, and were being in-
spected early on their first morning by
the manager, while the tappers were
eating rice and drinking tea before going
out with their latex-buckets and gear,
Out of the semi-darkness came the shrill
voice of a young Gosiago, almost due to
be returned to his village, his labor-
agreement time-expired, piping in
Motuan; “Start them on my task,
Taubada. When I try to find the trees to
tap on my task it’s just like hunting /”
“Emjai”: The market was quiet in the
stock-dealing business, and Homey
McGurk had put a mob of young stuff
away in the bit of back country to grow
into money for the spring. But the rabbits
had made the feed pretty short, so
Homey got Joe Cackle to go with his
outfit to clean up the rodents and keep
an eye on the cattle. On wages, plus
makings from the rabbits, Joe was on a
good thing, and when Homey later
took a run out to the snug camp
by the creek it was obvious that Joe was
“farming” the rabbits, and those trapped
were being fully replaced by influx and
breeding; and the cattle weren’t doing
any good. “Been thinkin’ of gettin’ word
to you. Mister McGurk,” drawled Joe,
“that we’re overstocked for this country,
Need t’ lighten down a lot or they won’t
carry over the winter.” “Yair, I can see
that, Joe,” replied Homey. “Your rabbits
are showing the pinch all right. Toss y’
who pulls out, you or me.”
PREY
Twelve men of silence on the shore;
upon the rocks a dozen more;
and all with rods firm in their hands.
In keen patrol beyond the sands
a team of gulls; with zeal agog
around the pool a barking dog;
and under water shadows fleet
with goggles, spears, and fans for feet.
A high bird, winging all alone,
sighting, banking, drops like a stone;
while small boats anchor everywhere.
One bond, one only, links them there.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
BEDSIDE MANNERS
'THE previous locum tenens my doctor
A had engaged belonged to the bed-
side-manner school, which believes it to
be an impertinence on the part of a
patient to expect to be told anything at
all about the complaint from which he is
suffering. I think he suspected I asked
questions with the fell purpose of hoard-
ing up such a store of garnered know-
“Cyzcha Strychenkiwicz is a bit of a mouthful —mind if we
call you Jack ?”
ledge that I should eventually make my-
self completely independent of the
medical profession.
Apparently he had become dispirited
with the type of patient he got; anyway,
when my doc. recently went on holidays
the locum was a younger man. He was
different altogether—eager to talk about
what caused which; in fact, he was
simply bursting with explanatory
verbiage.
When he asked what the trouble was,
and I replied that my complaint was
severe indigestion, he pulled the cork out
of his conversational geyser. It appeared
that indigestion was not a complaint but
a symptom. Was I aware that thousands
of tiny glands in the stomach-lining
secreted various juices which broke down
the food into a semi-fluid state, arH that
it stayed in the stomach for anything
from five minutes to two hours? And
that disturbance of the lining by unwise
ea ting or other excesses inevitably
brought oh some stomach upset?
Tt ,
was on *y a^er t hogged effort that
\ was a^e temporarily to dam the word-
how and get in with a detailed explana-
h°n °f the symptoms,
“I get,” I said loudly and firmly, “a
burning feeling in the stomach, and a
lot of burping.”
“Eructation,” he corrected. “And if
you get it there” —he indicated the spot
—“it’s in your abdomen, not your
stomach. In point of fact,” he went on
quickly, “the stomach is a small pear-
shaped organ lying at the lower part of
the breastbone and partially covered by
the ribs.”
“Well,” I interrupted, “every pear-
shaped stomach I’ve ever observed —and
I’ve seen hundreds of publicans, aider-
men and union-secretaries —has been a
very large one, and certainly none of
them ever gave me the impression that
the blubber enjoyed the shoring-up sup-
port of a battery of ribs.”
“Yes, yes,” he said, obviously narked
at having his explanations interrupted.
“Now about what you complain of.
Were you emotionally upset during your
last meal?”
“My oath!” I answered warmly. “The
idiot of a waiter brought the bill before
I was halfway through the dessert!”
“You have dyspepsia,” he announced.
Then he took a deep breath and
plunged in before I could get mine to tell
him about a previous bout I had had.
“You should know,” he said, speaking
at 240 w.p.m., “that your digestive-tract
consists of a continuous tube thirty-one
feet long which twists and turns and takes
on various shapes. It starts at the
oesophagus—you would call it the gullet
—which is only ten inches long and leads
straight into the section of the tube known
as the stomach —not, as I said, to be
confused with the abdomen, which lies
between the hip-bones”
“Mine doesn’t,” I cut in at last.
“It”
“Don’t interrupt!” he said. “Next
comes the small intestine, which is
divided into three parts, of which the
best-k#iown is the duodenum”
“But duo means ‘two,’ ” I interrupted
again. “Yet you claim that’s only one
part of it! ”
“Shut up! ” he snapped. “Who’s telling
this story? This, in turn, leads into the
large intestine, which also consists of
three parts”
I had to do something to stop the cow.
“I know a man,” I whipped in, “who,
it was found, had a four-part large
intestine.”
“You doV he gasped, the torrent of
his words dammed to a trickle.
“Don’t interrupt!” I snapped. “It
caused him to emit a double-burp after
eating, the first in a minor, the second
in a major key.”
“Eructation” he began.
“Shut up!” I said. “He was always
wondering why he could never run up
the inside of a 100 ft. chimney-stack
without getting a bit puffed. They only
found out by accident when he went to
see a specialist about what was causing
his jaw-muscles to work spasmodically
every time he would savagely grind his
teeth. The chap I’m telling you of was
tall and skinny like yourself, and his
jaws used to go just like yours are now,”
He turned slightly pale, then gave a
nervous little laugh.
“Four parts to the large intestine,” he
said,' half to himself, “I don’t think it’s
possible.”
“Perhaps not,” I replied evenly.
“Nevertheless he had them. There are
always some freaks in the human family.
The specialist said he’d have eventually
withered away if he hadn’t submitted to
a touch-and-go operation. He was lucky
to survive. Queer fellow —he had a
high-pitched voice, rather like yours.
Specialist said it was consistent with his
abnormal condition. His eyes protruded
slightly, too, inuch like your own.”
He went a bit green around the gills
at that, and then sat down heavily.
“I’ll give you a prescription for your
abdomen,” he said brokenly.
“Stomach,” I corrected.
He didn’t seem to notice, for his eyes
had a faraway look.
“How old was your friend?” he asked,
trying to make the question sound
casual.
“Much about your own age,” I replied.
He shuddered violently.
I walked out, and as I passed the sur-
gery window on my way to the front gate
I glanced in. He had his shirt up and was
listening-in to his stomach anxiously with
his stethoscope.
Bo.


Jtcufft iu ihc
Huiure
“Show me an old man’s hands and I’ll tell you
the story of his life.”
My friend was making no claim to being a seer
when he said it —he was too much of a realist for that.
He was simply saying that in the gnarled knuckles of
an ageing hand are the marks of life as one has lived it.
And how true it is. Hands that were given us to
work and to create, to fashion and form, are pointers
to character.
You’ve seen the hard hands of a man who held
the plough in the days of his pioneering; of the man
who cleared his farm land with an axe; of the
tradesman who built homes ; of the miner who dug
with his spade and washed his gold in the creek-bed....
These are the hands of the fathers and grandfathers
of this generation of Australians. They wrought what
we have, in times when modern mechanical aids were
not there for the using.
You’ve seen the hands of an aged mother, still
bearing signs of the toil that went into the rearing of
her family when there were few accessories in the
home to lighten her task.
Look down at your own hands. They may be
scarred from the knocks, coarsened by the wear of
Life. They may be soft, preserved from roughness
because your work has called for employment of the
Mind rather than the body. They may even be the
delicate hands of one who has used his intellect in
science or the arts.
But this is the test for all of us: Have these
hands been used for the benefit of my country and
my fellow-men? Are they honest hands, useful hands?
Have they contributed something, left something that
will endure, or that at least will be carried on by others
in the cycle of creation?
I ask this because I believe Australians need to
be reminded of the dignity of labour, and of its urgent
importance at this stage in our history. The hand that
scatters the grain, harvests the crop, tends the cattle,
shears the wool, turns the lathe, grimes itself in a
multitude of ways, is a good hand.
When it feebles, it will still be strong. It may not
be powerful as the world knows power, but it is doing
more in its unit force than any dictator arm that was
ever raised. And it is working in freedom.
'/Y.
j . • -
y
v
. ■ /
<*sm >
liiiil
.. >«
1 s ..^.^<3
hmi
■• : v ;.V .
/
* :?
A.C.A. policies
A*
For
* LIFE
* FIRE
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER'S
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
it MOTOR
VEHICLES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
( Incorporated in N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street. Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Good with the Bad
TN the midst of some of the best
1 dividend-distributions seen for
years, a little uncertainty is
creeping into the sharemarket.
Wool has opened slightly
weaker—though the trend for
the season is not yet really clear
—wheat is well down, sugar is
lower, so are dried-fruits and
hides. Metals and meats are up
a bit; tallow also. But, overall,
export prices are down, and so is
the volume of some exports.
As pointed out here last week,
the trade-balance is swinging
against Australia, partly because
of increasing imports; and,
though bank-advances reached a
record in June, there is likely to
be a revision of credit-policy
among the major banks before
long. It seems that advances will
increase almost automatically for
some time because of commit-
ments already entered into,
Credit facilities for non-
ess“‘ials ma >' be , harder “fA
Ordinary pru ence gg
that some of the zest in spending
ma Y wear ? ater on * the
motor-trade has boomed over
the past 12 months, and the
demand for refrigerators and
washing-machines has risen to
unprecedented levels. Such a
rate of turnover is unlikely to
continue whilst ouf production-
costs make it difficult for the
average household to afford a
car a variety of mechanical
gadgets. During the past year
there have been reductions in the
price of cars and household
appliances, sometimes because
°f lower sales-tax, and there have
been abundant consumer-credit
facilities.
With a pinching-off in some
luxury spending possible, and
with a likely slowing-down in the
expansion of some credit
facilities, there is nevertheless a
prospect of continuing activity
in the major essential industries.
The building industry is chiefly
short of labor, which puts
pressure oh the main building
cost. Building activity could
therefore probably stand some
slight reduction in the demand
for new homes. There is a big
public-works programme to be
attended to, and defence plan-
ning has been expanded, if
anything.
The long-term prospect is
excellent, provided costs can be
reduced. Reduction is not too
much to ask for, in view of the
full employment that exists, the
greater supply of raw materials
now available, and the larger
amount of up-to-date plant
employed in most factories.
There are*few power problems at
present, and capacity of most
factories has been increased. All
these things suggest an increase
in ultimate man-hour output,
which is one of the prime factors
in cost-reduction. On the
monetary side there has been a
virtual freezing of the basic
wage. But the drop in some
commodity export - prices is
unlikely to bring a correspond-
ing cut in the domestic price.
Metals have been sold below
world parity in Australia for
many years, wheat also. Under
any stabilisation-policy a fall in
export prices is likely to bring
an upward movement in the
internal-consumption price, if
anything, and hence an increase
in general costs.
For the present, the share-
market’s reaction to overseas-
trade and credit trends is likely to
be a demand for somewhat
higher yields. There will be a
reassessment of present divi-
dends, prospective dividends
and long-term outlooks. Com-
panies with static dividends and
prospects may see‘a lowering in
the market-prices of their shares.
On the other hand, companies
with increasing dividends and a
promising outlook will see higher
prices paid for their scrip, though
an increased yield will be asked
for.
The investor’s line of action,
in these circumstances, boils
down again to selective invest-
ment. We have seen over the
past nine months a general up-
surge in prices for oil and
uranium shares almost regardless
of their individual prospects.
Now the mining sharemarket is
becoming more selective, picking
“specs” on engineers’ reports
more than on market “tone.”
The same thing will apply with
more emphasis in the investment
sharemarket. Companies will
have to produce the goods if
shares are to go up.
Listed cos. which have done
just that lately have been Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers,
Bradford Cotton MillSj Burling-
ton Mills, Farmer and Co.,
Gordon Edgell and Sons, Mutual
Acceptance, Rudders, Bearing
Services, John Brown, Sargents,
Wangaratta Woollen, A. Goni-
nan, Fred Clark, S.A. Rubber,
Hanro, E. T. Brown, Frederic
Ash, John Shearer and Sons,
Mutual Store, Pitt, Son and
Badgery and Buckley and Nunn.
Something to be remembered
in calculating the value of an
industrial investment is the fact
that many concerns have
increased their capital over the
past few years in order to enlarge
their plant, and that the new
capital is now about to earn its
keep.
A Loan Just Filled
The £5O million cash-and-
conversion loan, after a short
period on the market, brought
in £5l million, of which £46
million was cash; only about
40 p.c. of the £12.4 million of
3i p.c.’s, which matured on
August 15, were converted into
the new 4\ p.c.’s. The remainder
were paid off out of sinking-fund
money. Almost the full amount
of the cash subscription will be
available for State works.
The use of about £7 million
from sinking-fund money to pay-
off unconverted stock may not
have the mildly inflationary
effect that it would seem to
indicate. In the last financial
year the Commonwealth had a
revenue surplus of £56.2 million,
which it carried to Debt Redemp-
tion Reserve, and this was made
available to finance State loan
requirements beyond the offer-
ings from the public. In addi-
tion to the Budget surplus,
normal sinking-fund appropria-
tions were made in accordance
with the Financial Agreement.
During the current year the
Commonwealth Government will
not underwrite the State Govern-
ment’s loan requirements, but it
has assisted to the extent of the
undersubscription of the recent
conversion. On the anti-infla-
tionary side is the allocation of
revenue for Commonwealth
public works. It is estimated
that these will run into £lO4
million during the present year.
What new money is pumped
into circulation during the year
.can only be calculated after tak-
ing into account any Budget sur-
plus that may arise, any capital
expenditure out of revenue. The
use of bank-deposits to fill loans
can sometimes have a delayed
inflationary action.
The Australian public debt on
June 30 had reached
£3,606,862,711 —which compares
with about £1,300,000,000 at the
outbreak of war in 1939. Be-
cause of inflation and the lower-
ing of interest-rates the burden
of the national debt is hardly as
great as it was in 1939. Living-
costs have multiplied about three
times over the past 15 years.
Expressed in money figures the
national income has increased,
on a per-head basis, about three
times in the same period. The
national debt, per capita, has
increased 2.15 times.
Uranium-occurrence
At this interesting stage of the
search for uranium in Australia
—probable and possible tonnages
are being mentioned in some
-engineers’ and geologists’ reports
—it may be worth while to
print again some of the warn-
ings given by mining-engineer
A. G. Palmer in his article, “The
Search for Uranium,” in B.
21/7/’54. In the article Mr.
Palmer said, among other
things:
Uranium-deposits usually make
their presence known by an increase
in radioactive background. Un-
happily an increase fin radioactive
• background does not necessarily indi-
cate the presence of uranium (pros-
pecting companies please note!).
As well as uranium, an increase in
radioactive background may be due
to:
(1) Thorium.
(2) The potassium isotope K4O.
(3) Daughter-elements of uranium.
(4) Daughter-elements of thorium.
The future of thorium is uncertain.
The isotope of potassium and the
daughter-elements of thorium and
uranium are not practical sources of
atomic energy. Many granite rocks
exhibit high potassium radioactiv-
ity....
The most important primary-ore
mineral of uranium is pitchblende or
uraninite (uraninite is a crystallised
form of pitchblende). Under suitable
conditions weathering of primary
uranium minerals produces a great
variety of secondary minerals, includ-
ing torbernite, autonite, carhotite and
“sooty” pitchblende. The majority of
these secondary minerals are vividly
and characteristically colored —a point
of great significance in prospecting.
To date most of the world’s uranium-
producers have been found without
the aid of counters. However, as the
obvious forms of uranium-deposit
become known, our dependence on
electronic instruments will increase.
A pitchblende vein extending up-
wards into the zone of weathering is
gradually replaced by secondary
minerals which mushroom upwards
and outwards along joints, shears and
pore-spaces in the host rock. This
lateral expansion will result in a
broad diffuse zone of secondary
uranium-mineralisation. A widespread
and impressive array of highly radio-
active secondary uranium minerals,
including sooty pitchblende, is often
derived from sub-economic pitch-
blende-veins in this fashion. Cappings
of secondary material over primary
mineralisation are generally unecono-
mic.
Most uranium minerals are remark-
ably soluble and mobile under the
influence of acid ground-water. In
arid climates, superficial accumula-
tions of secondary uranium minerals
may occur miles away from the pri-
mary source. Sometimes secondary
deposits will remain long after the
primary source has ceased to exist.
Secondary accumulations, in their
turn, may be attacked and dispersed
by ground-water.
One of the most übiquitous uranium
minerals is torbernite. It can turn
up anywhere, often disassociated from
any apparent primary source. A find
of torbernite is only broadly signifi-
cant. , .
Few accumulations of secondary
minerals are profitable sources or
uranium. They are mainly ot
economic interest as possible guides to
primary ore-bodies. An understanding
of the distribution of secondary
uranium minerals is vital to the evalu-
ation of any uranium-occurrence.
The mushroom formation of
secondary uranium minerals
mentioned by Mr. Palmer is
worth a little study. Where such
a formation exists it is clear that
the greatest area of the
mineralised formation is near the
surface, and that it then
diminishes as it goes under-
ground down the “stalk” of the
mushroom - formation. Most
successful mines depend on
widths and values persisting at
depth.


TILLEY
PRESSURE
KEROSENE
ftfOO
lamps
burn
——■ .
brighter
longer!
'
★ SAFE SIMPLE CANNOT SPILL
★ 12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY l£ PINTS OF KEROSENE
★ NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
★ WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
★ 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
What About Senator
McCarthy's Methods?
“I approve of Senator McCarthy's
objectives, but I strongly disapprove
of his methods, which are similar to
those of the Communists.” This
type of statement is now being used
to help smear American * anti-Com-
munist leader, Senator J. McCarthy.
But those in doubt about McCarthy’s
methods should read the current,
issue of the League of Bights’
monthly INTELLIGENCE SURVEY,
which contains actual extracts from
the official records of Senator Mc-
Carthy’s interrogation of a typical
witness strongly suspected of being
a Communist. A comparison is made
between McCarthy’s methods and
those used by the Communists
during the examination of American
prisoners of war in Korea.
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also provides other factual reports
and comment essential for all
Christian patriots.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free. Order from—
The Victorian League of Rights
(Non-party, non-sectarian )
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Pitcher traces signature
Hands which have pitched for the South Australian
baseball team are used by a ledger-examiner in a
Bank of New South Wales branch in checking
signature records. This officer must be able to
identify the signatures of customers of his branch
on their cheques presented for payment, if necessary
verifying with signature record cards.
There are over 8,000 pairs of hands working in
the “Wales” —providing banking services for well
over half-a-million customers. They are willing to
work for you, too.
me
10 OtV I
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(IKOOIiPOEATED in new south wales with limited liability)
A5421C
Consult am
Can you tell
a ‘big’ Scotch from d
‘small’ Scotch?
¥• i
SJ&ftrey* f> j
/I
0
BE®
oi i %,
100% SCOTCH WKjgjjfJ
©•STILLED AND BLE«0* u
*„ IN SCOTLAND
•AC
O| STILLERS««™ SCOT
tSTABU SHED
PRODUCT Of ••••"*'
-M
We don’t mean, of course, the
difference between a double and a
single, yfe mean the difference
between the ordinary run of
whiskies—and a masterpiece such
as Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an independent
firm of distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not huge.
But to those who know it, it is
very, very precious. At Bell’s
generation after generation have
handed on their skill; and this
coupled with the knowledge,
almost the Intuition, of those
who make whisky ensures that
the barley, water and peat, aided
by the soft Highland air, go to
make a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky —and you
will acknowledge its magic
mastery
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES .
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
6scC.
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
OUR last cricketing excursion
(only the third this season)
typifies the prolonged agony of
this dying summer. It was an
important match, vital to the
County championship, and of
extra interest because of divided
loyalties. The weather-forecast
of two days earlier had promised
“a short period” of uninterrupted
good weather. Instead, we had
the same overcast skies and rain.
On the morning of the match
a new [summer] development,
thick fog, soured the roof-tops.
But at least it indicated a change
in the weather. The morning
grew mild and bright, supporting
the revised but still favorable
forecast. Sandwiches were
packed and thermos-flasks filled.
A radio-broadcast from the
ground gave hopes of a full day’s
play of exciting cricket.
So, after a hurried lunch, a
party of three adults and two
boys set off, hoping for the best
but prepared for the worst, as
if they were venturing not to
Lord’s, but into the unknown.
The contestants for the cham-
pionship had tumbled out their
nobly housed opponents before
lunch for a mere 70 runs, and,
with some lively newcomers to
open the batting, would surely
amass a big score. And one
could also turn a critical eye
upon England’s vice-captain anti
watch how he handled the
situation.
In the event, he had barely got
his eye in before black clouds
began to drift in from the
western seas. The game
went on. Then the rain
became visible. Then stronger.
Plastic raincoats were thrown
over heads. The players
ran for the pavilion, and, in
glorious optimism, “covers” were
rushed to the middle. A furious
downpour soaked the ground,
converting the used creases into
quagmires and trapping the
spectators as they fled for their
homes.
This everyday incident
epitomises Britain’s and
Europe’s—disastrous summer.
Seasonal trades, from tourism
to cotton textiles, have suffered
heavy losses, and the holiday-
maker is rare indeed who can
look back upon a tonic-giving
vacation. If the coming winter
is severe we shall pay dearly
for our lack of sun.
The Meteorological Office
might well have found a happier
mode of self-expression than
in the revelation that it
would be wrong of us to regard
the bad weather as “any other
than a random variation among
the infinite variations of Nature.”
And what a gem of longwinded
understatement is this: “A con-
tributory factor to the un-
pleasantness of the summer and
late-spring in Great Britain has
been the pronounced deficiency
of sunshine.”
Sundries
The weather has cost first-class
cricket some £70,000 —an
average of about £5OOO per
county. Lancashire sorrily holds
on to its unwanted reputation -by
having had every home match
disturbed by rain or washed out;
its loss amounts to £ll,OOO. At
the other extreme, Kent is down
to the extent of only £5OO.
Len Hutton’s background as
captain-designate for Australia
is, to say the least, unusual. His
manager and vice-captain are
members of the M.C.C. So, in an
honorary capacity, is his scorer-
baggageman. Yet he, being a
professional and therefore
ineligible, is not. Neither he nor
his second-in-command are
regular captains, but there are
two experienced County captains
in the team. And Hutton, after
regaining the Ashes and tying
with the West Indies, has only
managed a tie with Cinderella-
like Pakistan. Personally, he has
had a poor season as well as a
mild breakdown. His name is
low in the County averages, and
in three Test innings he has made
only 19 runs.
It is probably true that the
Pakistan victory has done more
good to Pakistan cricket than
harm to English cricket, but the
English team can hardly set out
for their toughest job in a state
of natural high fettle. Twice
England’s bowlers (without
Bedser) failed to scatter the
Pakistan tail, and its batsmen
(without Bailey) could not stay
in, even when set. They were
well in command, and played as
if to win the match in a couple of
hours. Instead, they couldn’t
prevent a rot —and eight second-
innings wickets falling for under
40 runs. And this against a team
of Test novices who had never
hoped to do anything better than
put up a good show.
Moreover, the inability of the
younger hopefuls to find their
Test form is continually disap-
pointing. Only May, among the
batsmen, has shown improve-
ment on the big occasion and
that was comparatively slight. It
is now expected that the key-
pin of the English batting will
be Edrich, brought back at nearly
40, unquestionably because of
his form.
British Musicals Again
The lighter stage is enjoying a
welcome flourish of native talent.
“The Boy Friend,” Sandy
Wilson’s witty re-creation of the
’twenties, has been joined by two
other British-born “musicals.”
And both have taken the town
by delighted surprise, if hardly
by storm. The manner of their
arrival is not the usual one of
frontal assault, boosted by a long
Broadway run and a great deal
of advance publicity. Instead,
they have crept silently upon us,
as if over the fence, quietly,
unheralded and without a single
big name to dangle from the
hoardings.
The companies are young and,
by West End standards, inexperi-
enced ; yet their zest, freshness
and exuberance have so shown
up the clear-cut staleness of
advanced techniques as to bring
tears of sentiment and joy to the
eyes of the hardest-boiled play-
goer and the sourest of critics.
Both are provincial, in so far as
they originate from the Bristol
Old Vic which, only last year,
showed us its abundant vitality
in Shakspeare.
At the Westminster Theatre
“The Duenna” may be only
second-rate Sheridan, but it
makes, after a dullish start, a
quite entertaining evening, thanks
to Tom Lingwood’s bright
costumes and decor, Lionel
Harris’s stylistic, tongue -in -
cheek production, a let’s-have-a-
jolly-good.-lark spirit among the
cast and the novelty of a new
score by Julian Slade. Jane
Wenham, already well known to
Londoners for her roles at the
parent Old Vic, has re-emerged
as a Donia Louisa who, amaz-
ingly, sings as well as she acts.
Here is another Marie Tempest.
“Salad Days” (Vaudeville
Theatre) is a rgvue linked by an
inconsequential story of two
graduate lovers and a magic
•piano. The same Julian Slade
has again provided the music,
and, with Dorothy Reynolds, the
book and lyrics. It is a departure
from the accepted revue style,
for it avoids smartness, sophisti-
cation, topicality and cynicism.
There is sophistication, but in an
objective form as something to
be made fun of —and what fun!
This piece of make-believe is
simple, naive, arch, kindly and
romantic, and suffers from these
very characteristics, but its pure
charm will win all hearts. For
this, the team work and the
creative subtlety of Denis Carey’s
production must take full credit.
Slade is 24 and ex-Eton and
-Cambridge. He joined the Vic
as an actor, but was advised to
stick to music. For £6 a week
he supplied incidental music to
order and for all occasions. Now
he is being talked about as a
future Novello or Coward. Time
will judge. Enough to say that
his method is simple: he strives
to wed a good tune with a catchy
rhythm and to adopt whatever
style he thinks best for the
immediate purpose. This some-
times leads to a characterless
jingle, but, after the excesses
committed in the name of music,
who is to say that this method
isn’t right?


5 ifeUfp
.
- 1 ® ?«
l -r,
s 9»
5.3=
5U
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
XT'OUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family,
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS: “
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAQHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
en©•mmercial Banking Co. of Sydney
CjCRIP in the private trading banks
possesses all the essentials of a sound
equity investment, with long-term
prospects of gradual accretion of both
capital and income through new share-
issues and/or lifts in the dividend-rate.
The volume of banking business has kept
in step with Australia’s rapidly expanding
post-war economy, and the services the
banks render to the public have been
considerably widened and multiplied.
Many of these services are not directly
remunerative, and range far beyond the
keeping of accounts and making of
advances to credit-worthy borrowers,
which is the prime function of the banks.
To help support continued expansion
of its already strong lending capacity,
provide for erection of new premises and
reconstruction of old ones, further extend
its services, and improve overall efficiency
(including mechanisation of routine work)
and so maintain its prominent position
in the banking field, the C.B.S. offered
those on its share-register at April 23
last one new share (£25 called to £l2 10s.)
for every four then held. When the
books closed at June 30 94,927 of the
new shares had been issued, of which
6099 (not applied for by shareholders)
were sold on the open market at a profit
of £43,303, which was added to reserves.
A further 1547 shares have since been
applied for, and another 4405 (represent-
ing fractions) have yet to be sold. Paid
capital will thus become £6,000,000 in
480,000 £25 shares called to £l2 10s. each
—the other £l2 10s. is a reserve liability
for the protection of depositors, and is
callable only if needed in the event of
liquidation. On £6,000,000 of capital an
8 p.c. div. (rate paid for the last six years)
would call for £48,777 less profit than
was claimed last term.
Central-bank controls and rising costs
have stood in the way of profits keeping
in step with the growth in banking activity.
Recent legislation, however, provided a
little more elbow-room in the field of
advances and investments, the special-
account system has been put on a better
footing, and the trading section of the
Commonwealth Bank rendered more com-
petitive. The 12 months to June 30 last
was a period of expanding trade activity,
steadier costs and lower tax-rates. So,
after allowing unspecified amounts for
taxation and sundry contingencies, the
cautious board wrote net earnings
£58,152 better at £528,777, which was the
best showing since 1930:
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1947.. 393,293 7$ p.c. = 355,426 25,006 4,446,781
1948.. 402,771 7J „ „ 367,237 25,000 4,457,279
1949.. 411,797 8 „ ~ 379,121 25,000 4,464,955
1950.. 426,542 8 „ „ 379;i21 25,000 4,487,376
Tax refund, £273,706 4,761,082
1951.. 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4,808,600
1952.. 443,843 8 „ ~379,121 25,000 4,848,382
1953.. 470,625 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,914,886
Surplus sale shares, £43,308 .. 4,958,189
1954.. 528,777 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 5,082,845
The £528,777 was equal to 11.1 p.c. on the
£4,739,013 of capital at work as against
9.9 p.c. and 9.3 p.c. for the two preceding
years. The bulk of the profit still appears
to come from the investment basket. The
margins in ordinary banking business are
very narrow indeed, despite a lift in the
overdraft rate from 4\ p.c. to 5 p.c.
(maximum) in August, 1952.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
reflect, for the most part, the general
improvement in trade and introduction of
£1,186,587 of fresh capital toward the
close of accounts:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £4,739,013 £4,739,013 £5,925,600
Reserves .. 4,848,382 4,914,886 5,082,845
Notes .. 13,513 13,500 13,497
Deposits,
etc.* .. 173,217.094 190,506,822 202,950,453
Due other banks 1,189,945 1,678,561 1,130,736
Final div... 189.560 189,560 189,560
£184,197,507 £202,042,342 £215,292,691
Liquids .. 102,759,226 125,902,401 129,240,901
Advances .. 76.272,343 73,154,201 82,436,951
Premises, etc. 1,227,522 1,399,656 1,668,844
Other assets 3,938,416 1,586.084 1,946,495
£'184,197,507 £202,042,842 £215*292,691
* Includes provision for contingencies.
A growth of £12,443,631 in deposits, etc.
(some of it of a temporary nature), was
accompanied by an expansion of
£9,282,750 in advances and addition of
£3,338,500 to low-interest-bearing liquids,
which include £45,300,000 (up £3,900,000)
on special account with the Common-
wealth Bank, £19,000,000 (down
£3,000,000) of Treasury bills and
£34,759,159 (up £3,161,155) of Govern-
ment securities. Improvements to and
rebuilding of branch offices sent the book-
value of premises up by £268,688. When
the books closed liquids amounted to
63.3 p.c, of liabilities to the public, and
advances were only 40.6 p.c, of deposits.
From the banking point of view it is a
very strong position.
The two weakest spots in the Australian
economy at the moment are the level of
costs and rapid growth of consumer
credit. Still, with more capital at work
and the economic barometer set fair,
some improvement in the co.’s net earn-
ings for the current term is a reasonable
expectation. And hopes are that the
board will make a small lift in the
dividend-rate.
At £2O Bs. the £l2 10s. paid shares
return 4.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or
4.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is £23 Is. 9d.
Queensland Brewery (Brisbane)
BETWEEN them Queensland Brewery
and Castlemaine Perkins enjoy a
lion’s share of the trade in the growing
and thirsty northern State, especially the
southern and most densely populated por-
tion. There is no price-cutting in the
trade; competition takes the form of
buying-up and improving hotel proper-
lies, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over, which, under pressure of popula-
tion growth, buoyant economic condi-
tions and free spending, has kept on
expanding for more than a decade. It
has all called for substantial additions to
brewery and plant, too.
To help finance the expansion share-
holders put up £BO,OOO of fresh ord. capi-
tal in January, 1951, followed a year later
by an additional £221,945. Those on the
register (pref. and ord.) at August 27 last
welcomed the offer of a further . 446,389
new £1 ords, at par., two for seven, pay-
able in full October 31, 1954. The issue
will lift paid capital to £2,000,000, in
199,234 p.c. prefs. and 1,800,766 ords.
On that lot the pref. div. and 8 p.c. to
the ords. will call for £155,019, which is
£25,029 less than the profit claimed last
term.
The ords., which shot up from 31s. a
year . ago to 375. 6d. just before
announcement of the new issue, recently
sold at 325. ex rights, giving a return of
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. On the
same div. basis, the rights at 11s. 9d,
(they fetched as much as 12s. 6d.) give a
similar return. The prefs. at 225. 9d.
yield 4.8 p.c.—they carry a fixed cumu-
lative 5i p.c. and participate in new share-
’issues. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is £l3 9s. 9d. prefs. and
275. 6d. ords.
The co.’s gross earnings and exes, are
not broadcast, and the board is tight-
lipped about the number of hotels owned
and their location. Statistics show an 8.5
p.c. increase (8 p.c. previous year) in the
Australian output of beer for the 12
months to June 30 last. Turnover also
benefited from recent capital expenditure,
as well as from a lift in selling-prices early
in the term, following abolition of price-
control. The rate of co.-tax was reduced,
and wage-costs were steadier. So, despite
further increases in raw-material prices,
the board was able to write net earnings
£41,494 stronger at £180,048:
f —Dividends —\
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5i p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £■ £ £ „„
1948. .123,204 10,958 73,320 38,926 339,488
1949. .123,661 10,958 73,320 39,383 378,871
1950.. 93,625 10,958 78,320 9,847 888,218
1951. .128.257 10,958 73,320 48,979 432,197
1952.. 127,730 10,958 76,295 40.477 472,674
1953. .138,564 10,958 84,449 43,147 515,821
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 615,821
Profit sale assets, £10,365 .. •• 626,186
8 p.c. I
1954. .180,048 10,958 108,359 60,740 686,926
The £180,048, written after allowing
£74,972 (up £24,449) for depreciation and
unstated amounts for taxation and other
contingencies, leaves out of the reckoning
a capital profit of £10,365 on sale of
assets. It covered the pref. div. and 12.5
p.c. on ord. capital as it stood at the
close of accounts, compared with 10.6,
10.7, 11.2, 7.9 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1949.
The div., steady at 7 p.c. for the decade
to 1953, was lifted to 8 p.c., and the board
is “hopeful that the increased rate can
be maintained.” Moreover, the position
was considered good enough to disclose
£lOO,OOO of the inner-reserves for con-
tingencies, which suggests that profits
have been conservatively stated in the
past. And it is unlikely that the cupboard
where the inner-reserves are kept has
been left bare.
Over the last four years £790,568 has
been added, to the book-value of fixed
assets (including hotel properties) and
£447,338 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, while shareholders put up
£301,945 of fresh capital:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. ~ £199,284 £199,234 £199,234
Ord. ~ .. 1,132,482 1,354,377 1,354,377
Reserves .. .. 472,673 515,820 688,925
Creditors .. .. 760,038 765,287 921,632
Final divs. .. 45,114 50,293 66,426
£2,609,491 £2,885,011 £3,228,594
Fixed assets .. 1,971,660 2,286,553 2,518,740
Stocks . . . . 432,475 382,149 441,785
Book debts .. 198,568 209,169 260.929
Investments .. 6,788 7,140 7,140
£2,609,491 £2,885,011 £3,228,594
Last term fixed assets increased by
£232,187, stocks by £59,636 and book-
debts by £51,760, while £156,345 was
added to the creditors item. When the
books closed there was Bs. 2d. of outside
money in the business for every £ belong-
ing to shareholders.
The immediate outlook for the co. is
bright, and so is the long-term prospect
of a further lift in the dividend-rate.
I
Kelly and Lewis, Xtd.
A FTER a temporary setback in 1952,
due to economic and other causes,
this old-established heavy-engineering
organisation is making encouraging head-
way again. The ord. div., which averaged
8.1 p.c. for the last 13 years, and which
was lowered from 10 p.c, in 1951 to
8 p.c. for the two following terms, was
lifted to 10 p.c. for the 12 months to June
30 last, with plenty to spare. And, with
things as they are, another good showing
«at next balance seems assured. Still, it is
doubtful whether better than a 10 p.c.
distribution need be looked for, because
money is wanted in the business to finance
further improvements and additions to
the foundry and new pump-works, which
it is proposed to pay for, wholly or sub-
stantially, out of the co.’s own resources.
The parent and subsidiaries are a
carefully integrated group, with Com-
monwealth-wide connections, whose
activities and output have expanded con-
siderably since the war, and a lot of
attention has been given to strengthen-
ing the sales section of the organisation.
Output includes centrifugal- and axial-
flow-pumps, compressors, steam- and
internal-combustion-engines, structural-
steel work, electric-generators, switch-
gear, pneumatic tools and farm machinery,
etc. The co, also holds the Common-
wealth franchise (excepting portion of
N. S. Wales) for the Lanz farm diesel-
tractor, which is being handled at a profit,
and two new overseas agencies were added
to the list last term. One is for the
diamond-drills, percussion-rigs, rock-bits
and oilfield equipment turned out by
English Drilling Equipment, Ltd.; the
other is for large electrical-rotating
machines, transformers and rectifiers, etc.,
made by the English Construction Co.,
Ltd.
An associate, K. L. Tractors, Ltd.,
formed in 1946 to make 40-h.p. Bulldog
tractors, was wound-up last term, costs
being the crippling factor. Since no
equity remained for the ords. in this co.,
the value of the parent’s holding (£43,717)
was written off against reserves.
Excepting the foundry, which
recorded a loss of £2937, due to heavy cost
of replacements and additions to equip-
ment, all other sections contributed to
the year’s growth in turnover and profit.
Turnover increased by £486,309 (16.3 p.c.),
reaching £3,464,487, thanks partly to large
contracts for Commonwealth, State and
other public authorities, and to a con-
tract, not yet completed, for delivery of
236 pumping-sets under the Colombo
plan.
After setting aside £29,043 (up £5994)
for depreciation and £58,811 (up £21,206)
for taxation, net earnings were £3847
stronger at £106,573:
Kelly and Lewis and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends \
Ist 2nd Re-
June. Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.'
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1951.. 88,120 8 5 10 17,552 352,414
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ... .. 342,414
Added intangibles, £8991 .. .. 333,423
Share premiums, £1750 .. .. 335,173
Surplus sale assets, £3594 .. .. 338,767
Amortisation, £6985 .. .. .. 331,782
Less reserve adjustment, £330 .. 331,452
1952.. 66,961 8 5 8 50,040 348,373
To staff fund, £2500 345,873
Sundry additions, £3077 .. .. 348,950
Surplus sale assets, £1902 .. .. 850,852
Amortisation, £8492 .. .. .. 347,360
Written off investments, £21,250 .. 326,110
Work-in-progress written down, £51,979 274,131
1953. .-102,724 8 5 8 50,040 326,815
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. •• 321,816
Sundry addition, £2705 .. -. 324,520
Profit sale assets, £8467 .. .. 332,987
Amortisation, £8493 .. .. .. 829,494
Written off investments, £43,717 .. 285,777
1954. .106,573 8 5 10 59,580 332,770
To staff fund, £5OOO 327,770
The £106,573 leaves out of the reckoning
non-recurring items interlined in the
table. It covered the pref. divs. (£11,880)
and 19.8 p.c. on the £477,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 19, 11.6, 20.7, 20.3
and 9.5 p.c. back to 1949. After payment
of divs. and sending £5OOO to the staff
fund, reserves stood at £327,770, the loss
on K. L. Tractor shares being more than
offset by the year’s surplus earnings, etc.
Balance-sheet movements are encourag-
ing;—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £210,000 £210,000 £210,000
Ord 477,000 477,000 477,000
Reserves .. .. 345,873 321,815 327,770
Mortgage .. .. 119,833 114,347 103,667
Overdrafts .. 221,276 154,897 163,835
Creditors .. .. 255,177 239,482 279,356
Tax provision .. 69,218 45,544 60,891
Final divs. .. 20,250 25,020 29,790
£1,718,627 £1,588,105 £1,652,809
Freeholds .. .. 248,802 253,396 308,186
Plant . . .. 322,678 375,173 398,714
Stocks, etc. .. 795,896 601,801 517,630
Debtors .. .. 267,780 271,610 382,826
Investments .. 72,505 79,005 35,500
Cash, etc 10,966 7,120 9,453
£1,718,627 £1,588,105 £1,652,309
A reduction of £84,17 i in stocks was
accompanied by a growth of £111,216 in
debtors’ balances and net addition of
£38,132 to the outside debt. The increases
of £54,790 in freeholds and £23,541 in
plant mainly reflect work in connection
with the new pump-making factory and
the foundry. Including tax provision and


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
mm
■
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HAROLD LEONARD late
of Kingsford.—TAKE NOTICE that
NECIA RUTHVEN LEONARD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2882 of 1954
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
29th day of December 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, 38 Martin Place. Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BD 3416. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Rigiflex HOLDS
RUPTURE
9 out of IO men
are NOT SATISFIED
WITH TRUSSES!
Even under the most
exacting conditions the
RIGIFLEX BELT
HOLDS and PREVENTS
THE SPREAD OF RUP-
TURE. Fitting like a
“second skin” it relieves
AT ONCE alt pressure
from the hernia region;
this entirely replaces
methods which rely on
outside pressure on the
rupture tear ONLY.
The Rigiflex Belt is made
in varying depths accord-
ing to the special require-
ments of each person.
It is light, porous and
easily laundered.
The Rigiflex Method is
individual as no two cases
are entirely alike. Write
today for the interesting
and fully illustrated book-
let AR.I. “Some things
all Hernia sufferers should
know”.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Sold in Sydney exclusively by .
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON CO. LTD.
160 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel. 8L2684.
Manufactured and distributed by
J. Roussel of Paris Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
, Now Open!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£4'15'0%
LOAN
This new Loan (No. 120) offers you the opportunity to
enjoy a regular 4| per cent annually from the
Premier N.S.W. Security. You have the option of
gaining this assured income for 12 or 20 years.
The N.S.W. Government
Guarantees
* Principal and Interest
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queens-
land, Western Australia and Tasmania.
All holders of securities in Loan No. 38 (maturing on
Ist November, 1954), who convert to the new Loan,
will continue to enjoy regular interest payments .
apply promptly to-day
YOU CAN INVEST IN THE LOAN
£ at any branch of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank;
£ through your Stockbroker;
$ at the Water Board office.
Issued at par, the Loan is fully underwritten by J. B. Were & Son ,
and will close on or before 25th September , 1954.
final divs., liabilities exceeded
more-or-less liquids (including
investments) by £307,870 (up
£72,376) when the books closed.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords.
shot up from 235. 6d. at the end
of July to 275. following publica-
tion of the accounts. At the
higher figure the return is 7.4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
5 p.c. prefs. at 16s. 6d. yield
6 p.c. The 6-8 p.c. first prefs.
have not appeared on ’Change
for some time. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £5 18s. Id.
5 per cents, and 335. 9d. ords.
Bennett and Fisher (Adel.)
nnHE phenomenal post - war
boom in the wool trade
greatly strengthened the position,
financially and otherwise, of this
wool-broking, pastoral-finance
and merchandising business, and
so enhanced the outlook for
shareholders, which for decades
before had been a rather lean
one. At June 30 last those on
the register could see the whole
of their £600,000 of capital intact
and £430,675 besides, whereas in
1946 £2865 of the capital was
unrepresented by tangibles in
the books. Over the same period
distributions averaged 10.2 p.c.,
lowest 3i p.c, in 194$ and
highest 20 p.c. last term. For the
preceding 20 years the average
was approximately 2 p.c.
Speaking generally, the wool-
market showed little variation in
average prices for the year to
June 30 last, but the clip was
lighter, and so was the cheque.
Here again are the figures for
South Australia as a whole over
the last four seasons:
Year. Bales Average
June 30, Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1951.. 383,632 £62,978.171 £164 3 3
1952.. 405,831 33,888,783 83 10 0
1953.. 466,652 45,246,082 96 19 2
1954.. 422,026 40,620,196 96 5 0
Of last season’s clip the co.
handled 58,676 bales. The drop
in both volume and value was
approximately 10 p.c. However,
the co. sold a record number of
sheep and lambs, cattle sales
were much higher, too, and the
merchandise, land and insurance
departments “made very satis-
factory contributions” towards
the year’s result.
Income from all sources
(£695,647) increased by £101,560.
Salaries and other charges
(£392,961) gobbled only £14,402
of the gain. So after setting aside
£22,254 (up £6536) for deprecia-
tion and £105,000 (down £5000)
for taxation, the net result bene-
fited by £85,621:
Dividends >,
Prefs. Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’47.. 34,362 15,000 4| = 12,750 3,747
1i p.c.
’48.. 67,447 22,500 7i ~ 22,500 26,194
’49.. 71,013 22,500 73 „ 22,500 52,207
’50..116,918 22,500 10 „ 30,000 116,625
’51..205.930 22,500 15 <, 45,000 255,055
’52..112,877 22,500 123 „ 37,500 307,932
’53.. 89,811 22,500 123 „ 37,500 337,743
’64..175,432 22,500 20 „ 60,000 430.675
The £175,432 of profit claimed,
second best in the co.’s history,
was enough to pay the prefs.
their p.c. and show 50.9 p.c.
on the £300,000 of ord. capital
as against 22.4, 30.1, 61.1, 31.4
and 16.1 p.c. back to 1949. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and a
10 p.c. bonus p.c. for two
preceding terms) was added,
making 20 p.c. for the year.
Continued expansion of the
business —two new branches
were opened and new agencies
acquired and the growing
financial needs of clients sent
advances up by £212,604:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capita]— £ £ &
Pref. . . 300,000 800,000 300,000
Ord 300,000 300,000' 300,000
Reserves .. 307,933 337,743 430,675
1419 297 1,283.451
Tax reserve 120,000 110,000 105,000
Pinal div. 37,500 37,500 60,000
2.185.032 2,504,540 2,47 - 9,126
Freeholds,
etc. . . 329,104 331,192 355,411
Stocks and
plant . . 430,254 225,011 257,329
Advances . 1,096,460 846.931 1,059,635
Cash, etc. 329,214 1,101,406 806,851
2.185.032 2,504,540 2,479,126
To meet the demands of clients,
carry £32,318 more stocks, etc.,
add £24,219 to freeholds, etc.,
and reduce the creditors item by
£135,846, the co. drew upon its
large holding of cash, etc., for
£294,555. And it is still well
equipped to further assist clients
should the need arise.
As for the current term, early
estimates are for an increase of
about 5 p.c. in the volume of the
clip. Prices at the first two days
of the opening auctions at Syd-
ney were down from 8 p.c. to
12j p.c., mainly for fine wools,
on last season’s closing rates.
What will happen to prices as
the season advances depends
largely upon the strength of
Japanese, Russian and Ameri-
can support. A pleasing feature
is the- absence of any large
accumulation of world stocks of
the staple.
At 375. (28s. 9d. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 10.8 p.c.
so long as the 20 p.c. distribution
continues, or 6.5 p.c. on an aver-
age distribution of 12 p.c. The
A and B prefs. at 255. sd. each
yield 5.9 p.c. on a 7£ p.c. basis
—they carry a cumulative 4 p.c.
with the right to advance with
the ords. up to p.c. Net
tangible cover is £6 17s. sd. As,
£5 17s. sd. Bs and 48s, 4d. ords.
Tableland Tin Dredging
Ord. shareholders, who re-
ceived their last div. (8 p.c.) in
December, 1950, look like getting
back into the picture again at an
early date. There is £326,000 of
capital to feed in 80,000 £lB p.c.
participating prefs., 240,000 £1
ords. and 120*000 Is. deferreds.
The prefs. participate with the
ords. in any distribution beyond
8 p.c., and the deferreds rank
equally with the ords. for diys.
on a share-for-share basis.
The dredge, which* had been
transferred from the old worked-
out Return Creek area, to a new
site at Smith’s Creek, some six
miles away, began digging early
in November, 1953. For the
eight months to June 30 last it
handled 1,557,000 c.y. for 504
tons t. 0., assaying 68.2 p.c.
metallic tin, at an average work-
ing' cost of 24.48 d. per c.y. Aver-
age recovery v was 11.60 z. to. per
c.y., or a trifle above bore aver-
age. Altogether it was a credit-
able performance considering
the hard nature of the ground
and that some large boulders
were met with early in the piece.
The price of metallic tin rose
from £AB3O to £A963 per ton
during the eight-month period.
After adjusting tin-stock yalues,
the profit was £82,286, of which
£4OOO was transferred to pref.-
capital reserve, £25,600 was
handed to the prefs., wiping out
arrears of divs. to date, and
£20,000 was used to write down
dredge-transfer account (now
£210,525). No ord. div. was
paid.
On an annual basis the profit
was equal to £123,309. Allow-
ing £29,000 for pref.-capital re-
serve (£4000) and writing-down
of dredge - transfer account
(£25,000), the remaining £94,309
was equal to 4s. 6d. per share
(all classes).
When the books closed stores
figured at £44,298, debtors and
cash £114j,022, and investments
£40,704 (including £32,000 pref.-
capital reserve). There was
£42,899 coming to sundry credi-
tors, and the overdraft, guaran-
teed by the Government, stood
at £300,000 (up £100,357).
There is over 12 years’ work
ahead of the dredge in ground
bored to average 11.20 z. per
c.y.
The ords,, which had dropped
to 15s. in the market in 1955,
recently fetched 295. 9d., and
the deferreds 16s. The prefs.
are tightly held.


Women's Letter
MELDCDDNE
“A Man’s Eye View of Spring” was
the name given a collection of Georgina
hats shown by, George Stooke during a
luncheon-parade at the Ritz. Flowers
’ bloomed on many, and some were
covered with tiny blooms or platters of
silk petals. Iridescent straws had an
undersea look ; other straws were woven
io give a mother-of-pearl appearance.
Pink, always a flattering shade, was used
to advantage; a blue called Royal
Pacific appeared in several tailored
hats.
According to George Stooke, spring
this year may mean a drooping milliner’s
hood, a fishnet bathing-cap or a soaring
pagoda. Most attractive was a pale-bis-
cuit-toned straw picture-hat misted with
tulle, with large beige cabbage-roses
- decorating the large brim. A striped
black satin pugaree banded a planter’s
hat of natural-straw which had a square
crown and slightly scooped brim. “Fruit
Salad” was the name given to a pari-
buntal-straw bonnet wreathed with
colored fruit. \
Heralding the spring, Hicks, Atkinson’s
showed a collection of colorful and
decorative ensembles for all hours of the
day and night. Cotton which looks like
silk was used in many of the less-formal
frocks, while tussore, organza and pure-
silk were used in ensembles for race-,
garden-party- or dinner-occasions. Em-
broidery, or motifs which look like
embroidery, are decorative trends for this
season, and floral or patterned cottons
and silks are well in the fashion-picture.
A race-ensemble of pink silk-like cotton
was patterned in black-etched leaves.
The frock had a slender skirt topped by
a draped bodice. Over it was worn' a
coat of matching cotton lined with black.
It could be worn reversed. The coat
sleeves, elbow-length and very wide, were
fitted to a tiny band fastened with jet
buttons. i
Very smart and unusual was a frock of
white poplin with a wide flared hem of
white, black polka-dotted poplin to match
the portrait-neckline and tiny puff-
sleeves. The sunshade carried by the
mannequin was in the white-and-black-
spotted theme.
One of the most charming of the em-
broidered frocks was a navy-blue pure-
silk organza which had embroidered
motifs in white, tinged with pink blossom
worked in angora sprays down the front
of the full skirt. It carried a huge bow
at the waist. Nylon was featured in a
frock with a wide permanently-pleated
skirt and with tiny clusters of flowers in
every shade patterning the grey back-
ground. This was worn over a stiffened
petticoat and the low-cut bodice fitted
trimly.
/ “Brandy Cruster” was the name for a
lovely evening-gown in soft beige tulle
with a deep-bronze pink band swathing
the strapless bodice and continuing in
two panels down the back of the skirt.
It was worn with a matching beige tulle
stole. Nor was the woman with the
larger figure forgotten. For her there was
an elegant grey lace gown, and a sand-
beige Irish-linen frock with a round neck-
line and cleverly cut skirt which was con-
trasted with white bead-embroidery round
the neckline and on the pockets.
* i* *
A friendship which commenced at the
University had its sequel at Xavier
College Chapel in the marriage of
Margaret Mary, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. C. J. Uniacke, of Ivanhoe, and
Norman Michael, elder son of Mr. Justice
O’Bryan and Mrs. O’Bryan, of Toorak.
The bridegroom is now a barrister and
the bride a B.A., Dip.Ed. Margaret’s
gown was of white duchesse satin, and
the fingertip tulle veil was held by a
circlet of white flowefs to match the
bouquet. Carmel Uniacke and Lois
Creed ’maided in white organdie frocks
with rose-pink velvet cummerbunds and
tiny white organdie flower-trimmed
hats.
☆ ☆ *
Some fashions noted at the V.AT.C
meeting at Caulfield: the small winter-
white melusine cloche topping the mink
coat worn by Mrs. W. Adams, of Sydney ;
Lady Snow’s trim camelhair coat and tiny
petal-hat of velvet; Mrs. G. Davies-
Goff’s cherry-red coat and contrasting
small black hat; Lady Clarke’s suit
of mauve, brown and white checks,
worn with a draped cloche in mauve
velvet; Mrs. W. P. Mein’s cognac-
brown suit, the buttons of which
matched the gold ornament in her
brown velvet hat; Mrs. Norman Robin-
son’s grey-and-white-striped suit and
small white pillbox beret; Mrs. John
Cain’s black-and-white-speckled tweed
coat worn with an emerald-green hat;
Mrs. Dick Noone’s combination of lime-
green Princess-cpat and cognac-brown
velour beret; and Mrs. Norman
Richards’s peacock-green tweed suit
matched by the long quills in her black
velvet pillbox-hat.
Mrs. F. P. Selleck, the new Lady
Mayoress, is a member of a small group
which for seven years has been raising
money for the Royal Children’s Hospital.
She accompanied her husband to the
Coronation and to Europe, where they
toured the battlefields of World War I,
in which the new Lord Mayor rose to the
rank of major. Mrs. Selleck, who is blue-
eyed and fair-complexioned, has one son,
Bruce, and daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson, and three-year-old grandson.
Andrew Tolson.
Appropriate decorations provided the
atmosphere of a French villa for a din-
ner-dance, “A Night on the Riviera,”
which was organised to assist the funds
of the Sutherland Homes for Children
Auxiliary. On each side of the stage
were tall cypress-trees, and beside them
tall marble columns on which were busts
of famous French rulers. The walls were
hung with lovely tapestries interspersed
with white feather-plumes and golden
fleurs-de-lis. 1
Seven well-known mannequins showed
a wardrobe of holiday-clothes ranging
from lingerie, swimsuits and casual
cottons to cocktail-frocks and evening-
gowns.
Climax to the parade was the showing
of an exquisite white duchesse-satin wed-
ding-gown from the salon of Renee Rose.
Douglas Cox and Harold Grigg provided
the casual cotton frocks, and Jean Grey
the cocktail-frocks and evening-gowns.
Guests were received by the organiser,
Mrs. Margaret Saker, who wore a black
sheath-frock of silk paper-shantung,
draped to one side and with Chantilly
lace inset on bodice and skirt. Mrs. Jean
Davies, treasurer, wore a full-skirted gown
of black nylon tulle. Ticket-secretaries
were Rena Pope, whose sheath-frock was
of white guipure lace, and Judith Taylor,
in a short bouffant frock of rose-pink
organza.
Among the guests were Mr. A. G.
Warner, M.L.C., and Mrs, Warner;
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside ;• Cr,
Douglas Cox and Mrs. Cox; Mrs.
James McGauran, who wore a short
frock of white organza mounted on
faille, the panel of the redingote-skirt
encrusted with jewels to match those on
the bodice ; Mrs. Bernard Evans, whose
full-skirted gown was of black-etched
white organza; Mrs. Keith Hattam, in
a short bouffant gown of azure-blue-
and-white organdie; Mr. and Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith; Mr. and Mrs. Jack Steele
(Hastings), who were with Col, and Mrs.
Malcolm McArthur and Mr, and Mrs.
George Mendes; Mr. and Mrs, A. E.
Hotchkiss and Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Watts; Mr. and Mrs. G. C. (“Bing”)
Molyneux, and Mr. and Mrs. Josh Pitt.
Sophie Stewart, star of “Dear Charles,”
wearing a lovely gown of apricot-tinted
organza, came with her husband, Ellis
Irving, and singing star Allan Jones.
SYDNEY
The personality of Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike, the great actress who swept into
Sydney with her equally famous husband,
Sir Lewis Casson, during the week, is
the most stimulating influence to have
struck this town for many a day. At the
civic reception held in their honor it was
a revelation to observe the warmth and
liveliness with which they greeted each
guest introduced to them by the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills. Each received
a personal greeting (to Miss Saide Parker,
for instance)': “Legacy! Why, Legacy
was the first thing we saw when we landed
in Australia.” To another guest:
“But I know all about you! The ballet,
she has that wonderful ballet, Lewis.”
To Miss Elsie Beyer (with a kiss on
each cheek): “We will have a long talk
afterwards” —and so on.
Many people interested in the arts
were present at the reception: Mr. Ernest
Burbridge (representing the British
Council), Mr. D, D. O’Connor
and his sister. Miss Nancy O’Connor,
from Auckland, Miss Doris Fitton,
Mr. William Orr, Mr. O. D.
Bisset, Miss Evelyn Tildesley and Miss
Beatrice Tildesley, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Moses. Sir Lewis said that they had
come back to Australia after 22 years to
see the country again, to visit their son
John, who is settled with his family
in Melbourne, and to do what they can
at this stage of their lives to carry on
the tradition of the spoken word, which
is as much a link between the old country
and the new as is the written word.
V v v
Another visitor of interest is Mr. Justice
O. Douglas, of the Supreme Court of
America, who was entertained at the
Starlight Room of the Hotel Australia
by the N.S.W. Bar Council on Friday
evening. Judge Douglas looks like Will
Rogers, wears a brown suit and has a
haircut like a rugged little boy. His man-
ner is humorous and casual. To the
question “How are you addressed in the
U.S.?” his reply was “Sometimes Mr.
Justice Douglas on very formal occasions,
as ‘Judge’ frequently, but mostly as ‘Look
here, old boy’!”
The Chief Justice, Sir Owen Dixon,
was present at the cocktail-party, also
the two other judges from the Petrov
Commission, Mr. Justice Ligertwood and
Mr. Justice Philp, with their wives;
N.S.W. Chief Justice, the Hon. K. W.
Street, Mr. K. A. Ferguson and Mrs.
Ferguson, Sir William and Lady Webb,
Sir Edward and Lady McTiernan, Dr.
Regala and Mrs. Regala (they are both
lawyers), Mr. Justice Toose, Mr.' and
Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Cowper, Mr. and Mrs, Lawrence
Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. B. Macfarlan, Mr.
and Mrs. M. F. Hardie, and Mr, and
Mrs. R. Else Mitchell.
☆ * *
Mrs. Margaret Preston and Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland each arranged a bowl
of the exciting West Australian wild-
flowers which have drawn crowds into
David Jones’ during the week. Many
West Australians, “exiles from home,”
came to recall their childhood days
through these flowers: the purplish
Menzies banksia (not named after the
Prime Minister); the fantastic kanga-
roo’s-paw, yellow and red or black and
velvet; the exquisitely scented pimelia ;
the heath-myrtle; the purple hovea.
These were all flowers from the coast,
said one West Australian, as he described
the beauty of the white paper-daisies and
the hopbush to be found round his
boyhood home at Kalgoorlie.
Meanwhile Sydney’s own wildflowers
seem to have forgotten their role as shy
bush-plants and are running riot over
Kuringai Chase in an almost flamboyant
manner. On every side boronia, and
eriostomon glow in rosy masses through
the bush, epacris gleams like snow in
the sunny air, pale wattle, spider-
flowers, native fuchsias, even blue-
veined orchids combine with a dozen
other types of wildflower to announce
the spring with brilliant show.
In the gardens of the North Shore line
sweet-pea and stock are in bloom. In
Centennial Park the flame-trees form
avenues of misty coral on leafless black
boughs. Everywhere the camphor-laurels
burgeon in pale-green vitality, and alto-
gether Sydney is making a fair attempt to
prove that it is spring.
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. H. Nicholas, who is paying
Sydney a visit after being away for eight
months at her farm-home at The Ouse,
Tasmania, was entertained by members
of the Victoria League cn Thursday.
Mrs. Nicholas, a former deputy-president
of the league, looked charming in a
black velvet coat and hat worn with a
mink stole. Mrs. H. H. McNall, who
presented a springlike bouquet of daffo-
dils, brown boronia and anemones to
Mrs. Nicholas, welcomed the 70 guests
who had come along to the club’s rooms.
Among them were New Zealand visitors
Mrs. Stanmore Day and Mrs. A. Crosby
(Auckland), Mrs. O. Leith from Kew
(Vic.), who leaves for her home in Eng-
land in November, and Mrs. G. West-
brook, who is on her way back to Eng-
land after spending two years in New
Zealand. Receiving the guests with Mrs.
McNall were Mrs. G. I. D. Hutchison
and Mrs. Alan Foott.
☆ ☆ *
Ex-members of the A.A.M.W.S.
from country and inter-State will come
to Sydney for their reunion at tlfe Pick-
wick on Friday, 17th of this month, and
there should be many reunions of
women who served in Ceylon, the Middle
East, Singapore, New Britain, Borneo and
Central Australia. Mrs. Donald Coburn
will be present (she met her husband,
Major Coburn, while serving with
8.C.0.P. Japan in the war years). This
reunion is a function organised each
year by Mrs. Joyce Snelling, who was
Assistant Controller of the Service for
N.S.W. during the war.
* ☆ *
At the end of this month —on Wednes-
day, 29th, to be exact —the Park Theatre
in Liverpool-street will become Hoyt’s
Paris Theatre and will set out on anew
career of presenting films of outstanding
quality from all over the world. This
is, to quote the publicity-sheets, “in keep-
ing with Sydney’s new status as the cos-
mopolitan capital of Australia.” (Hmm!).
The entire proceeds of the first night
are to be devoted to the French Widows
and Orphans Indo-China War Relief
Fund, and tickets, 30s. each, may be
bought at the theatre from next Friday
onwards, or through the mail. The film
to be shown is> the French comedy
“Edward and Caroline,” and his Excel-
lency the Governor has given his pat-
ronage to the preview, which has been
organised by Madame Louis Roche,
wife of the French Ambassador.
Mrs. Claude Brooks, wife of Captain
Brooks, of H.M.A.S. Penguin, is prest-
dent of the committee organising the
Penguin Eair at the Naval Depot on
November 6. Photograph by Hugh
Spencer.
What a fascination the artist Jias for
the onlooker! No sooner is an easel set
up and a sketching-block put on it than
a crowd gathers and watches in wonder-
ment as a picture emerges under the
artist’s hand. In Anthony Horderns’ at
present Miss Lyn Lavelle, who is doing
12-minute portraits, says that when she
first started to draw this used to worry
her, but now she is quite undisturbed by
it. All whom she drew seemed to be very
happy with their portraits, much more
personal than a photograph because
revealing less of outward semblance while
telling more of personality and character.
* ix *
Noted that the Baby Bear who rides a
bike round the stage in the Tivoli’s
“Funtasia” does not like potatoes, choco-
lates or Australian bread —nothing fat-
tening, apparently. This will probably
lead to the rewriting of the story of
Goldilocks in the interests of truth, and
instead of “Who’s been eating my por-
ridge?” we’ll have “Who’s been eating
my grapefruit and black coffee (without
sugar)?”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
S
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
ƒ
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATRICIA ELIZABETH KING lata
of Adelaide South Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that ROBERT EDWIN KING
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 385
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 16th day of December 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN H. SPICER & CO.,
Solicitors, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Ply 3 Canadian Pacific
TO NORTH AMERICA
Only Canadian Pacific operates
SUPER DC-6B's to North America
.. . non-stop Fiji to Honolulu.
Only Canadian Pacific otters 18|
hours' stopover at famous Waikiki
Beach luxury hotel
VANCOUVER
m
HfIWA!
AUCKLAND
SYDNEY
V* ***
Your choice of luxury
doss with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
(®J)rlticess* service.
Departures from Sydney every
Tuesday.
* TOURIST
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents for
Canadian Pacific), or your local travel agent.
*
/fatfffjfjjff/f ci^ic
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
■FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Aida”
Verdi’s “Aida” provided one
of the most stirring choral-
orchestral concerts Brisbane has
had in years. Although it was
intended for a spectacular stage
production, “Aida” still has
much to offer in concert per-
formance, the blazing color of
the music triumphing over the
sober effect of row upon row of
formal evening-dress. 6
This performance was domin-
ated by the splendid Amneris of
Margaret Elkins, her lovely
mezzo voice having most to do
in the long score, yet retaining
its warmth to the end of the
difficult role of the proud Egyp-
tian princess torn between love
and jealousy.
As her rival, Aida, Marie Col-
lier was impressive. Her fine
soprano was at its best in the
great ensembles of the opera,
When it rose to thrilling effect
above the combined forces of
choir and orchestra, especially in
the finale of the second act. This
is a voice of great energy,
capable of magnificence in
highly dramatic passages, though
less well controlled in , quieter
lyrical scenes. For all that, the
final duet, “Farewell O Earth,”
sung as Rhadames and Aida are
entombed by the priests, was
movingly done.
Ronald Dowd was a lyrical
Rhadames, with free, unforced
tone and no tenor tricks, while
lan Martin combined the parts
of Pharaoh and High Priest with
dignity, as well as a notable
clarity of diction.
“Aida” has no villain, but this
performance revealed one in the
person of Sir Malcolm Sargent,
whose concert-arrangement was
used. The doubling of parts and
most of the minor cuts were justi-
fiable, but his crude deletion of
the great duet between Aida and
her father Amonasro in the Nile
scene ruined one of Verdi’s best
moments. Nevertheless, John
Shaw poured forth some fine
baritone fury in the fierce
quarrel-scene, which was left
intact.
Walter Susskind’s flair for the
dramatic suited the music, and
his energetic conducting whipped
the orchestra and the usually
sedate State and Municipal Choir
into something like passion. It
was the soloists’ concert, though.
A better team could hardly be
assembled in Australia at the
moment, and their stage training,
as well as their fine voices.
helped them to realise the full
flavor of this colorful work.
D.J.M.
Sybil Thorndike
The Melbourne recital given
by Dame Sybil Thorndike and
Sir Lewis Casson was most com-
mendably reviewed on this page
the other week. Their Sydney
recital is similar, so it needs here
but another tribute to the won-
derful vitality of these two dis-
tinguished actors and to the
beauty of their diction, x '
The chief value of these re-
citals, in the opinion of present
reviewer, lies jn the opportunity
they give to Sydney’s actors and
audiences of hearing the quite
extraordinary rich and reso-
nant voice of Dame Sybil.
If at times the Thorndike
vigor seems to inform such
characters as Catherine of
Aragon with too much warmth
and optimism, that is offset by
the intensity of the portrayal of
Medea and the sparkle of those
items which featured Good
Queen Bess.
♦ ❖ ❖
Borovansky Ballet
The Borovanskys’ third pro-
gramme at Sydney Empire
opened with a disappointing
“Scheherazade” underdanced
and over-acted, it was a very
cool affair. Neither Jocelyn
Vollmar’s Zobeide nor Bruce
Morrow’s Slave had much heat
or passion about them, and it
was hardly a climax at all when
the Slave leaped upon Shah Leon
Kellaway’s sword. The more
usual rich, jewel coloring might
have assisted a little; the pallid
pastels in which it was set didn’t
help at all.
There isn’t much of Voltaire
about “Candide,” the second
item of the evening ; danced to
some delightful Rossini music,
with choreography by Kiril Vas-
silkovsky, it amounts to a pretty
little backstairs flirtation. As
that, it’s a most engaging piece.
With Peggy Sager making an
ecstatic Cunegonde and Vassilie
Trunoff an agile Candide; with
Raoul Celada providing the best
dancing of the evening and
some capital comedy as the
Baron ; with Christiane Hubert,
as Paquette, and Paul Ham-
mond, as Pangloss, doing some
very neat and nimble work be-
tween them; and with Olga
Purves making an admirable
character as the Old Maid.
“La Boutique Fantasque,”
the cheerful, colorful nonsense
in the toy-shop, is, of course,
always one for the audience, and
this current version got the usual
enthusiastic reception. It is
distinguished by Christiane
Hubert’s and Ron Paul’s Taran-
tella, by Kiril Vassilkovsky’s
Cossack Chief, and by Kathleen
Gorham and Paul Grinwis as the
can-can dancers—Miss Gorham,
particularly, made something
new, dainty and doll-like of her
part in the business.
“The Heiress”
This play, put on by John
Sumner’s Repertorians at the
Union Theatre, Melbourne, is a
dramatisation by Ruth and
Augustus Goetz of Henry
James’s novel “Washington
Square.” Henry, the philosophi-
cal and psychological novelist of
the ’nineties (brother of the
philosopher William), became
vaguer and vaguer until he
almost melted into a verbal mist
in his 50th novel.
There is, however, nothing
vague about “The Heiress.” It
is as sharp and clear as a glass
of water. Very well dramatised
by the Goetzes, it was remark-
ably evenly played by Mr.
Sumner’s players, who seem tf>
have benefited by their three or
four months’ barnstorming in the
country.
It is the story of a handsome
young no-hoper living on his
sister, who has five children. He
gets into the household of Dr.
Austin Sloper, a wealthy doctor
whose shy, gauche, unattractive
and neurotic daughter has
$lO,OOO a year and the prospect
of another $30,000 when her
father kicks the bucket.
The young man falls in love at
first sight with the neurotic
daughter, to her mingled delight
and terror. An ingredient of his
love is no doubt the $30,000, an
ingredient of hers is her desire to
be loved for herself rather than
for her money, and an ingredi-
ent of the doctor’s hatred of both
his daughter and her lover is his
disappointment because the
daughter—after, as he says, hav-
ing killed her mother —failed as
a satisfactory substitute by not
being as beautiful, intelligent
and delightful.
The young man ceases to be
the lover and becomes the loved
when he learns {hat the doctor
will cut his daughter out of the
$30,000 if she runs off with him.
He goes off to California and
comes another cropper, where-
upon his potential father-in-law’s
house once more becomes an
alluring object and back he
comes like the Prodigal Son. He
feels genuinely hurt when he gets
a cool reception from both the
father and the daughter, and
when the curtain comes down he
is heard hammering indignantly
on the front-door, while the
father is upstairs dying and the
daughter is sitting downstairs
knitting a cosy with a bitter smile
on her face as she listens to his
frenzied knocking.
It is a poignant scene and,
along with the rest of the play,
it was extraordinarily well done
by Mr. Sumner’s players. They
conveyed their feelings with a
quickness and lightness of ges-
ture and facial expression which
looked spontaneous, although it
was probably the result of heavy
training. Zoe Caldwell was ex-
cellent as the ugly duckling with
a fortune, Stewart Ginn was in-
cisive as her tyrannising father,
Michael Hourihan was admir-
able as the handsome young no-
hoper, and there was a similar
quality in the acting of all the
others.
♦> ❖ ❖
Puppet Show
There are strings attached to
this show which is being pre-
sented seven times a day at
Anthony Horderns’. Dozens of
strings, in fact. At one end of
them, as puppeteer and manipu-
lator-in-chief, is Bulletin artist
Norman Hetherington (“Heth”);
at the other end is a remarkable
collection of remarkable charac-
ters : ,
Signor Concertino, for
instance, who stretches to
astonishing length or contracts to
pancake-flatness ; and Selina, the
precocious baby seal, whose
escape from a circus and
eventual recovery by his ball-
balancing Ma form the main-
spring of the story. There are
also the Ringmaster, stern dis-
ciplinarian and keeper of the
whip; the satin-clad xylophonist,
hard put to control his instru-
ment, which insists on dancing
to its own music; the Scarecrow
dithers around with a lot of bad
advice; and the Clown. a
a olant wSws atT nhenomenal
F F
ra ~; , j s g j ven snan and
. th _ er g fect int F ation
dancing and general
cavort j ngs w jth the incidental
mus j c and t he scr i p t has an
engag i ng snap to it.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
Art of most schools and of no
school at all is on show in Mel-
bourne. Aileen Dent is holding
her annual exhibition at the
Athenaeum of portraits of local
worthies, landscape and still life
The portrait of an unnamed man
with a red face and quizzical
expression, and another of
Elliott Giles, the yachtsman,
have much more feeling than
those of Sir Charles Lowe and
Sir Victor Hurley. The mood of
“Blue Afternoon” is as well
caught as the dim atmosphere
of “Still Waters.”
At the Peter Bray Gallery
Ellen Rubbo is offering water-
color drawings which owe a lot
to Matisse, though her line is not
so expressive. Her color-washes
appear to be governed by some
convention which makes her
pictures the same,
whether the ■ subject is the
Riviera or some Victorian land-
scape.
At the Kosminsky Galleries
Max Dimmack is marching into
Russell Drysdale’s country, but
with a cartoonist’s pencil rather
than an artist’s observation.
There is something comic about
his symbols, however, and his
trick of breaking the central
desert into sets of unrelated
geometrical patterns within the
compass of a single canvas some-
times results in an interesting
pattern, though it has about as
much aesthetic significance as a
jigsaw-puzzle.
Talkies
“Desperate Moment”
This British-made film, with
some fast-moving excitement in
post-war Berlin and Hamburg,
concerns a Pole who, wrongly
sentenced to life-imprisonment
for the murder of an English
soldier, escapes and sets about
tracking-down the real murderer.
Dirk Bogarde handles the
chief role with conviction, and
Mai Zetterling gives an intelli-
gent portrayal of the girl who
helps him clear himself. At
Sydney Capitol.
♦X* >!♦
“Prince Valiant”
Gadzooks, but it’s an odd col-
lection of parfait knights who
gather about King Arthur’s
Round Table in this Hollywood
version of Harold Foster’s strip-
story.
There are those, such as
James Mason, who speak in pre-
cise, clipped, very English
phrases; others, like Robert
Wagner (Prince Valiant) and
Sterling Hayden (Sir Gerwain),
who must have exercised a truly
knightly restraint in refraining
from addressing the monarch of
Camelot as “buddy.”
For the rest, there are the
usual hirsute feats of derring-do,
with much hacking at tin-plate
clobber, and there are a couple
of honeys who look as though
they have just parked their
chewing - gum behind their
stomachers. At Sydney Plaza.


The FIGHT
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
“JT AFFY came through the
S mass of men, his head of
V i bronzy-brown hair held
high. A dark-skinned
Welshman with a hard/hawklike
. face and deepset eyes of hot
brown, looking older than his
twenty years.
Taffy was a middleweight, and
already known to fame. A rear-
gunner shot down over the
Rhineland, he had been sent to
Adlersberg for disciplinary
reasons; conditions in the Luft
camps were superior to those in
the Stalags. A month ago Taffy
had been eating in London and
boxing in Service tournaments.
Ossie, on the other hand, had-
been there since he was caught
in Greece.
Taffy ducked under the ropes,
and grinned whitely when the
crowd cheered. A young, strong
middleweight, a short R.A.F.
greatcoat covering his bare
shoulders, walking up and down
quickly on the raised platform
between the delouser and the
camp-hospital, trying to keep
warm. His father had been a
mountain fighter, one of those
hardy Welshmen who walked a
dozen miles after church, and
fought forty rounds or so with
the bare knuckles; for “relaxa-
tion.”
Ossie came next, a grubby
towel around his neck, the collar
of his worn greatcoat lifted
against the wind, his black hair
parted in the middle. He was
duly cheered.
Ossie had had his share of
fame, too, back in Sydney, before
the war. A welterweight, he had
shot, as an erudite journalist put
it, across the fistic sky like a
meteor. Winning fights at
sixteen. When not much older
than that, winning main events.
A kind of Griffo —the hero of
the push. Like Young Griffo —
to a degree—a clever defensive
boxer. Even now, in Germany,
he was hardly marked. And
Ossie had a deadly left-hook.
Not that he ever killed anyone
with it —but that is the accepted
terminology. A good left-hook
that won fights.
And, like a meteor, he fell.
The apogee was a fight in
Sydney, the winner to meet the
welterweight champion, Ossie
won. After the fight there was
a tremendous party. Going home
in the pale morning, Ossie scored
his second K.O. in twelve hours
—a policeman.
The policeman went to
hospital, Ossie, in due legal
course, went to Long Bay jail.
And when he came out he wasn’t,
as George Slater expressed it,
“worth a bumper.”
Small George—George Anzac
Gallipoli Slater —knew a good
deal about boxers, past, present
and future. He had been a
prelim, boy of sorts himself, in
Newcastle. When I heard about
Ossie going into hard training out
at his working camp, I mentioned
the possibility of his making a
comeback to George. *
“Listen, Dig,” George said,
“they don’t make comebacks.”
For some reason this positive
attitude depressed me. We were
going through a hard time then
—no Red Cross parcels coming
into the Stalag, and the place in
the grip of winter. Morale was
at a low ebb. I had fixed on
Ossie as a sort of symbol of
regeneration—and so, I suspect,
had other Australians in the
camp. For one thing, the idea
seemed possible. He was young
—twenty-four at the most. And
there had been a surprising
change in him of late. From
what George had told me about
his earlier life, ft appeared that
Ossie, as soon as he came out of
jail, began to drink heavily. And
it was noticed by his intimates
that whereas once Ossie, drunk,
could hold his own in a fracas,
now he was quite hopeless if he
had anything to drink at all.
I had noticed something of the
sort on the troopship that brought
us both from Bonibay to Tewfik,
and in Palestine. In a canteen
brawl anyone could knock
Ossie over. And since he was
quarrelsome when drunk, and,
moreover, drunk pretty often,
that sort of thing happened with
regrettable frequency.
Sober, he was quite different.
As he was now, in the Stalag,
after the whole working-party
from the timber-camp came in
for the winter. As he had been
in his heyday, when his photo-
graph had been splashed over
the sporting pages of Sydney
papers. It was a face you remem-
bered. Not distinguished-
looking, or strong, or even hand-
some. Neither good nor bad.
Long and pale, with eyebrows
like black arcs of surprise, and
sloe-black eyes. The curious
Oriental eyes of a bull-terrier,
without the pinkness.
TT was cold, and the crowd had
been waiting a long time. The
sky behind the dark postern :
towers was a bleak grey wash,
slightly smudged, like a water-
color that has run. The Stalag
was white from snow, with sharp,
shiny black edges of barbed-wire,
a central dark blur —the crowd,
and the raised platform within
it —and icicles hung from the
delouser roof. The afternoon
was advancing, and there was an
awful smell from the open
latrines s behind the British
compound.
The Russians were locked in
their compound, but all the
British were there: Englishmen,
Scotchmen, Irishmen, Welsh-
men: Australians, New
Zealanders, Canadians, South
Africans. The French, too —
most of them —and the Yugo-
slavs. A handful of Indians —
tall, bearded Sikhs and Punjabis
—and Lascar seamen. Polish
airmen, and Cypriots, and
Palestinians; a shivering Arab,
and a lonely Turk.
About the only racial group
.unrepresented in the Stalag was
the Eskimo ; and had an Eskimo
been there he would have found
the weather to his liking. But I
doubt whether anything else
about the place would have
pleased him. With the sudden
flow of prisoners from Italy the
Stalag had become terribly over-
crowded. The barracks, at
the best of times, looked weird
enough—an average barrack,
with its tiers of bunks,
looked something like an
imaginative picture of a
fo’c’sle in windjammer days,
with undertones of the old Fleet-
street prison and Robinson
Crusoe. Now they were dreadful.
Some men had to sleep on the
concrete, for lack of bed-boards
or even palliasses. Then, too,
despite the shortage of bed-
boards, some of the improvident
burnt theirs, as a sort of
desperate gesture, perhaps, to get
a fleeting warmth, or to cook
food saved from the Red Cross
parcels before the supply
stopped. Morale was low.
We waited patiently in the
snow. For the padre, some said:
for the camp-commandant, said
others. And others again said
that the fight couldn’t start until
the senior British medical-officer,
who was performing an appen-
dectomy, an amputation and a
mastoidectomy over in the rough
Stalag hospital, had come to take
his ringside seat.
The 5.8.M.0. came out of the
low hospital hut, putting on his
gloves. He was very tall, very
thin, very British,, in his officer’s
cap and double-breasted great-
coat, the buttons polished. The
R.A.M.C, major was under-
weight and overworked and
worried. There had been no
Red Cross parcels for a month,
no medical supplies for two
months. Because of Allied
bombing, the Germans said ; and
winter ; and dislocation of train-
services ; and —one thing and
another ... A high - level
measure of retaliation, said
Stalag-rumor . . .
Whatever the reasons, the
major’s task was heavy enough.
Too many patients, too few
doctors and orderlies. A few
orderlies like Jim Taylor to
carry the weight of duty of those
who failed, and those few tired
to death. One of the best
medical-officers awaiting court-
martial by the Germans for
insubordination—to the German's
—in a German prison. Another
medical-officer relieved of his
duties that day by the major
himself; for professional
reasons. Another failure in
morale.
, These things were an open
secret in the Stalag where nothing
escaped attention; and where
most things, inevitably, affected
everybody.
PATIENTS lined the other side
of the barbed-wire of the
hospital compound. Men with
crutches and bandages, men with-
out any outward signs of injury,
but looking desperately thin and
pale. Men without a leg, or a
hand, or an arm, and men with
no legs at all, propped on their
crutches in the snow. Men not
fit to leave their beds had begged
to have their beds dragged near
windows and doors so that they
could see something of the fight
between the Welshman and the
Australian.
It had been the padre’s idea,
the fight—making a spectacle
of it, and having it close to the
hospital so that the patients could
see.
The padre was a New
Zealander, and he was a Rhodes-
scholar sort of man, if you know
what I mean . . . Tall, grey-
eyed, athletic. A scholar, a
gentleman, and a good-mixer.
Letting the definition incline,
ever so slightly, towards the ideal
—what Cecil Rhodes probably
intended —rather than to the
sometimes-disappointing reality.
The padre had come into
Adlersberg like a fresh and
salutary breeze. He organised
concert-parties, debates, study-
groups . . • Anything and every-
thing to stiffen morale. Lately
he had been looking very tired.
“Gripes, it’s cold,” Jim Taylor
said, treading mud and slush of
snow. Jim was standing near
me, beside George Slater. Jim
was tall and dark and quiet, and
had been a medical student
before the war. He had read the
results of his third-year exams
on the troopship—pass, and two
high D’s.
There was a good deal of quiet
bitterness behind Jim’s calm
voice and steady brown eyes.
Before the war Jim’s life had
been mapped out. He would
graduate with honors ; he could
be pretty sure of that, without
undue vanity. He was only
interested in medicine ; anything
else, if it Existed at all, was
secondary. Then, according to
the plan, an orderly sequence of
work • and success. Junior,
resident at one of the great public
hospitals—Prince Alfred, Jim
thought, or Sydney. He hoped
to be asked to stay on as a senior
resident. After that, hazier but
hopeful plans. England, prob-
ably, and a shot at a higher
degree. F.R.C.S. . . . the alpha-
betical symbols of honor and
success were always in his mind,
somewhere in the future . . . not
nagging or goading him, but as
a kind of stable reward. Jim
didn’t care very much about
money, or that sort of thing . . .
It was just that he cared about'
his work and looked forward
with a quiet and happy con-
fidence to the future.
Instead, the war. Jim joined
up, telling a curious recruiting-
officer at Victoria Barracks that
he was an unemployed laborer,
since Medicine was a reserved
faculty. He thought it the right
and proper thing to do, at the
time. But lately Jim had suffered
some of the pain and frustration
of a man who feels his best
faculties are being misused,
wasted, frittered away ... Some-
thing between rage and doubt
and a troubled conscience, mixed
with an awful fear of the future.
He didn’t take this extreme
and gloomy view all the time.
He was too busy, for one thing.
And in some ways the Stalag
hospital wasn’t so bad for a man
in Jim’s position. In a rough-
and-ready clinical way it was
good. But then, as Jim said, he
didn’t - have the theoretical
groundwork fully to profit by
what he saw; and overworked
doctors, however willing, are not
the same as honoraries, pro-
fessors, lecturers. A Stalag'
hospital is not a great teaching
hospital and the medical school
of Sydney University. And there
were only a couple of textbooks
in the place—Gray’s Anatomy
and another. Then, too, Jhn was
willing—one of those men who
cannot see a thing left undone.
To neglect the job on hand for
the sake of study was unthink-
able. Sometimes he wondered,
with a quiet despair, whether he
would ever be able to study
again.
George, standing beside Jim,
was small and wiry. His father
had been at the Landing, and his
mother had remembered the
historic occasion at the christen-
ing. George wasn’t embarrassed
about his extraordinary names;
he was proud of them.
Before the snow George
Anzac Gallipoli and I had been
in the habit of going for walks
in the evening, before the
separate compounds were locked.
Or sometimes we walked around
the barbed-wire of the British
compound. We talked about all
sorts of things, sport, politics,
and so on, but the conversation
usually came wheeling back to
one thing; the future. After
the war. • A job. George had
been a postal-clerk. “But I
couldn’t go back to it,” he said.
“Not, after the places I’ve been
in; the things I’ve seen.” He
would wave a skinny tattooed
hand to indicate those faraway
places, those unlikely events.
“No, Dig,” he would say
sombrely. “1 couldn’t be in it —
not now.”
So we would pace around the
darkening perimeter of barbed-
wire, under the tall threat of the
postern-boxes and the wider
circle of darkening mountains,
gravely discussing jobs. The pros
of this one: the cons of that.
And each doubt and fear and
aspiration of George’s found an
echo in my own uneasy heart.
OSSIE and Taffy looked blue,
Waiting there shivering.
They stamped up and down,
hugging their greatcoats round
them. Ted, an artillery sergeant
who was an N.S.W. grazier in
civilian life, was in Ossie s
comer, looking harassed and
important with Ossie’s soiled
towel in one hand, a basin of
water scrounged from the dis-
pensary on the canvas beside
him. Taffy’s second was Nipper
Corkdale, a little, top-heavy
man with the face of a battered
gnome. Nipper had almost been
lightweight champion of England
once.
The padre’s red-nosed, thin
and smiling face appeared above
the crowd as he swung himselt
up by the ropes. Cheers, “What


TO DO YOUR WORK AT LESS COST—
10 6
PifSE«-
100
• CHEAP TO RUN! You know, as every farmer knows, that
, a Diesel Tractor is more economical on fuel. The Nuffield
Universal Tractor has a greater number of fuel-maintenance
and labour-saving features than any other.
• EASY TO BUY! THE NUFFIELD DIESEL ROWCROP
TRACTOR £1,053
THE NUFFIELD DIESEL MARK 4 TRACTOR £1,090
• HAS ALL THESE FEATURES! Standard equipment includes:
Pneumatic tyres, electric lighting and starting, belt pulley,
draw-bar, independent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat,
chaff screen and canvas engine cover.
- Optional equipment includes: 108" axle, £l5; P.T.0., £l4/18/-;
hydraulic lift and P.T.0., £99/18/-; overload release, £l9; hand
clutch, £6/5/-. ,
• WILL DO ALL THESE JOBS! The Nuffield Universal Diesel
Tractor will take implements mounted front, middle, rear or
tractor drawn; provision is made for quick, easy hitching of
almost any make or type of implement. Best implements of all
are the ones specially made to match the tractor’s excellence.
• ARRANGE A DEMONSTRATION! Write, call or phone your
Nuffield Dealer and he will arrange a special demonstration on
your property.
if
s
■ \'-m
i
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield Distributors
and Dealers Everywhere
*o m
BMC
ƒ
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NT.26.32
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
are we waitin’ for?” Boos.
“Give ’im a go!” Cheers and
catcalls. The padre held up his
hand for silence. He got it.
“Sorry to hold up the works,
chaps,” the padre shouted
through cupped hands. “Actually
—it’s the commandant we’re
waiting for!”
“ the commandant!”
shouted a cold and impatient
Liverpool Irishman.
The padre shook his head in
mock despair and fumbled for
a handkerchief to attend to his
nose.
The padre was going to referee
the fight, George said. George
said the padre had been a pretty
fair light-heavy himself
amateur of course —back in New
Zealand. George knew every-
thing.
“Here’s Mudguts,” said Jim.
It was, indeed, ,the German
commandant. A lane opened for
him and his staff, and the big
sergeant - major shouted
“Achtung! ” The commandant
was a porky man with a wine-
red face, black moustache and
black eyebrows, like three short
thick slashes of an artist’s brush
under the drooping beak of the
high-fronted cap with the silver
cord. Grey overcoat, high, soft,
polished black riding-boots,
spurs. The commandant walked
slowly, with dignity, his small-
gloved hand holding the dress-
sword with the silver tassel.
The commandant was a baron.
Behind him came the second-
in-command, tall, blond, rather
sinister, with a sabre-slash run-
ning the length of his baby-pink
cheek. Then the Stabsarzt, the
German doctor, who was a
veterinary-surgeon in civilian
life, according to Tich, and not a
very good one either —again,
according to Tich, who, as a
local Austrian and an ex-jockey,
groom and general-factotum of'
the baron’s, should have known.
Sundry officers and under-
officers, guards with fixed
bayonets—and Tich. Tich was
rather unusual, since he frankly
regarded war as a universal
calamity and officers, with the
exception of the baron, as the
natural enemies of the human
race.
The English major and the
commandant saluted each other
stiffly. All the officers, German
and English, sat down. A multi-
tude of eyes turned back to the
central canvas square and the
two small muffled figures.
Mac with the ragged fiery
beard began to hoarsely demand
that someone back the Welsh-
man, flourishing a handful of
Lagermarks and a fat package
of French cigarettes. A Welsh
guardsman promptly took him
up. *
The padre called the Welsh-
man and the Australian together
and stood with his gloved fingers
lightly resting on their bare
shoulders, talking. The
customary warnings, I suppose.
Come out fighting, break
clean . . .
■DROWN - SKINNED Taffy
looked a lot heavier, with
swelling pectoral muscles and
sturdy legs. That tucker he had
had in England would stick to
him now, Jim said. As it did to
us, at first. The march from
Salonika, for instance, when
we’d been shut up, and half-
starved, and yet came through it
all right. Although guards died
on the march , . .
“Yes,” I said, nodding my
head, and shuffling in the snow,
“Tve heard about that march,
Jim.” Taffy hitched his shorts
and the biceps bulged smoothly.
A strong boy. Both men were
barefooted and wore ragged
shorts—cut-down khaki trousers.
“Don’t know what scientific
grounds—documented—there are
for believing that,” Jim said in
his calm, slow voice. “But it’s
true, I think, as a matter of
observation. It does stick to
you, tucker ...”
Ossie’s slack-shouldered, peer-
ing stance gave him a deceptively
flat-chested appearance. His ribs
protruded under the white skin,
and his abdomen seemed to cave
in. His legs looked painfully
lean. In profile he looked
negligible, but when he half-
turned he was surprisingly
broad; wide shoulders, the well-
defined muscles shifting whitely;
and rather wide hips. Suddenly
Ossie shuffled his bare foot and
a nervous tremor ran up the leg,
outlining the four sections of the
quadruceps muscle above the
knee in perfect sharp patterns.
Taffy stood squarely, his
brown head thrown back. He
sighed, and the blackly hairy
chest surged over the lean belly.
A strong boy ...
They shook gloves firmly,
almost affectionately. They
seemed to take a long time about
it, the sloe-black eyes peering into
the deep-set brown ones.
There was a flash, and a
German under-officer with thick-
lensed spectacles lowered his
camera and sat down again,
smiling broadly. The photograph
would be published in some.
newspaper, showing how happy
the British prisoners were.
Taffy and Ossie turned to stare
down at the photographer, still
clinging to each other, a trifle
absurdly. As they stepped back
I noticed that Ossie had recently
had his hair cut by the Stalag
barber. A basin-cut, the hair
clipped almost bald below, with
a black circle of hair on top.
A style in men’s hairdressing very
popular in Australian country
towns . . .
There was no sound from the
vast crowd, and I had a sudden
nervous agitation in the pit of
my stomach, waiting for the clash
of bodies. The snow had seeped
through my boots, chilling my
bones. The smell of the latrines
was a poisonous background to
the senses. The Stalag was white
and black urider a lowering sky.
'THEY met in a shock and
-* flurry of blows, and presently
clinched. Ossie’s sleek hair was
ruffled and his ear a bright red.
They circled each other warily.
“ ’Ave a go! ” someone shouted,
but they ignored all such cries.
They were experts, and they
knew it. They didn’t have to be
told their jobs.
Taffy led with straight-lefts.
Smart punches coming swiftly
and perfectly recoiling. Stingers.
But you could sense a jarring
impact behind some of them,
blows that could do damage.
Three beauties rocked Ossie
against the ropes. But he
recovered quickly, flicked his
glove into Taffy’s face, and
moved away.
Taffy’s round, George said.
Ted fussed over Ossie in his
corner. Nipper merely leant over
his man and said something,
looking across at Ossie under his
beetling brows, Taffy grinned.
Round two. Taffy led again,
and Ossie retreated, blocking,
and moving his dark head in
easy rhythm. Ossie made Taffy
. miss badly .with heavy rights.
Ossie hooked Taffy, and seemed
to hurt him. Ossie moved in,
slamming short rips to the Welsh-
man’s body. Suddenly, a little
too quickly for the eye to follow,
Ossie was on his back. He was
on his feet again, blood trickling
from his mouth, arid before Taffy
could hit him again he clinched.
While Taffy was tearing into him
with short body-punches the bell
rang.
“Too good,” George said,
shaking his head. “Taffy’s too
good.”
In the third round I glanced
away for a moment and was
recalled by a sudden roar. The
two central figures, the brown
body and the white one, were
fighting in a savage frenzy..
Blood running down the Welsh-
man’s grim, dark face, a bright
red smear on the Australian’s
forehead. They were fighting
toe to toe, slugging. An
elemental battle to which these
men of many nations responded
with one voice. They fought
like that till the bell rang. Toe
to toe and blow for blow.
“They can’t keep that up,”
George said, shaking his round,
balaclava-shielded head , . .
Nor did they continue that
desperate expenditure of savage
energy. The fight settled into a
pattern. Taffy leading, Ossie
repeating. Ossie flicking out
lefts; then retreating. Taffy
sometimes scoring, sometimes
missing, but never going off
balance. Never giving Ossie
another chance with that freakish
left-hook of his, which had been
so highly praised in the Sydney
papers. Before he went on the
grog.
But the left-hook wasn’t what
it had been then, George said ;
not now. Age, and other things,
having taken their toll. ..
DUT Ossie was still a clever
** defensive boxer. Even
George admitted that. But the
Welshman was clever, too.
When the left-hook did flash
over, Ossie’s white, supple body
twisted behind it, Taffy seemed
to catch it on his glove, as nearly
as I could see. And then he
punished Ossie with hard rights
to the body.
Taffy knocked Ossie down
again in the , seventh round.
When he got up, wearily, Taffy
pinned him against the biting
ropes and bored in. Before
Ted threw the khaki coat around
him at the end of the round the
ugly red blotches were plain on
Ossie’s heaving ribs and pinched
white belly. *
From then on Ossie was
weaker. Taffy kept hitting him
more and more often with long
lefts. Ossie ducked and weaved
and side-slipped. But the sparkle
had gone from his evasive clever-
ness, and Taffy pressed him
grimly.
“She’s all over. Dig,” George
said sadly.
They shook hands for the tenth
round—the last. And I thought
of all the weary hours Ossie
had put into his training. Get-
ting up at his working-camp,
slamming into the heavy bag in
the darkness, while his com-
panions slept. Training at
night, in the barrack, with a
weary body and sleepy brain,
after a long day’s heavy labor —
for what? For a comeback, the
optimistic ones said . . . Ted,
and others...
There was a burst of cheering
as the Welshman and the Aus-
tralian shook hands. A tribute
from the Englishmen, Scotch-
men, Frenchmen, Poles, Maoris,
Croats, Serbs and the rest to two
game boys who had entertained
them.
“Looks like snow,” said Jim,
glancing at the darkening sky. I
shirred under my greatcoat,
and dug my hands deep into the
pockets.
Ossie was very tired. One eye
was closed, and his pale face was
swollen under the dried blood.
His slim legs were trembling,
and he seemed reluctant to raise
his gloves to shoulder-level.
Taffy was tired, too, but he could
smell the end, Taffy attacked
violently and bustled Ossie back
to the ropes. He caught him
there, and held him, hammering
him. Rips to the quivering lean
body. Uppercuts. Queer club-
bing blows and roundarm swings.
An orgy of hitting, the last-round
effort.
Ossie '"smothered, and fought
back, and smothered again. But
Taffy brushed away the tired
arms and chopped him down
with a hard right cross.
Ossie got up, the tangled black
hair hanging over his bloody
face, staggering. “Finish him,
Ta-ffy!” came the partisan yells.
But Taffy shook his head. He
stepped back and looked at the
padre. The padre said something
to o§sie and Ossie painfully
shook his head, making a pawing
motion with his left glove. The
padre nodded. Taffy moved in.
Ossie hooked him. The old
left-hook, short, brilliant, inevit-
able ; altogether freakish. And,
(Continued on page 34)


POWER
WALK UP TO A GOOD SIZED TREE AND
START TO FILL IT. At the first bite of the
full-sized, 22 inch blade you will feel the
surging power of the mighty little Mobile©
Be-Bo ... a full and genuine 5 h.p. which
makes the job quicker and your earnings
better.
1/
t
7
7
t?
i
MORE POWER
NOW TURN YOUR BLADE FOR CROSS-
CUTTING. Once again you feel the positive
power of your Mobile© Be-Bo . . . engine run-
ning on a note that spells power . . . blade cut-
ting through the log at a speed that surprises.
This is the kind of power and performance which
has caused one pulp wood contractor to buy and
operate ten Mobile© Be-Bo Chain Saws.*
and MORE POWER
WE'RE TALKING POWER, BECAUSE A ONE-MAN MACHINE MUST HAVE IT IN
PLENTY. It.is now up to you to prove it to your own satisfaction. Just call on your nearest
Mobile© dealer, or write to us direct, and we'll give you proof beyond doubting. After
all, it is power and cutting speed, reliability and light-
weight which you want in a chain saw. Mobilco has all
these, plus a three months' guarantee and quick, expert
spares and maintenance facilities. Write this very day
for the full story.
ii
<e.
£
jd
i
9
- V
Your Mobilco comes in a fitted
wooden case with either chisel
type or scratch type chain.
Tools, fuel can and complete
Instruction book are enclosed.
f
Mobilco
ONE-MAN CHAIN SAW
MOBILGO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
ill FRRAMS PARADE ' CAMPSIE . MOBUCa SYDNEY
SeAD OFFICE" 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
ranches I I I I I I ’ - - - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
(Post it today)
Send me today full particulars of
your chain saw.
Name ••
Address
at home in enko
By PHILIP KELLY
THE friend who told me
of a thirty - shillings -a -
week room available at the
Star and Leaf Hotel in
Erko created such a tempest in
my usually tranquil existence
that I almost regret not having
endured boarding at Haberfield
with the McPhillipses (five-
guineas a week and everything
“done”) and bestowing my hand
upon their daughter, Philippa, a
forty-year-old maiden in the
purest sense, who had led a full
life (she had once been called a
“bachelor girl”), but still
remained untried, unsullied and,
of course, unmarried.
My arrival at the Star and
Leaf caused a former lady-
alderman to be doused by a full
schooner of beer and contributed
to the barman’s punching
through frosted windows with
his bare fists.
I arrived about a quarter-to-
two in the afternoon, my only
suitcase filled with soiled cloth-
ing (it was not Mrs. McPhillips’s
week for doing the laundry), and
with vast parcels to be collected
from the dry-cleaners’.
Mrs. Prang, the publican, sat
behind the cash-register in the
bar, missing nothing with the
keen looks she directed at the
two barmaids through tortoise-
shell-rimmed glasses embellished
with gilt butterflies; Reg, the
barman, was emerging from the
cellar, like Plqto from his realms,
having just put on a new keg;
Bonnie and Rita, the barmaids,
were indifferently wiping glasses
with clean tea-towels.
I had just stepped from the
side passage leading to the ladies’
lounge, when the tortoiseshell-
encircled gaze was swept in my
direction, and I heard the voice.
It was a voice which seemed to
rise with difficulty up a windpipe
corrugated with phlegm like a
drainpipe with slime, and
emerged from a mouth full of
the largest dentures I have ever
seen, which were smeared with
the same purplish-colored lip-
stick that outlined the lips. The
whole face was jacked-up with
a professional smile of welcome.
“AaaaHeee Owww,” was the
first sound that broke through
the barrier of mucus like a
bubble bursting in a blanc-
mange; and then: “You must
be Ben’s friend who wants the
room. Reg! Did you regulate
the cistern in the Men’s?”
Realising that the question was
not directed at me, I admitted
that I was there to take a room,
and asked for a middy of new to
make a good impression.
“Staff,” grumbled Mrs. Prang,
as I sipped my drink. “I don’t
know, you can’t get no one
nowadays. I’ve asked him a
dozen times. I can’t gd out into
that place myself, and all that
water’s running to waste. Of
course they don’t have to pay
the water-rates. But there you
are, if you want anything done
you’ve got to do it yourself.”
“I’ve been out,” said Reg
surlily, “and timed the flow.
There’s supposed to be four
minutes between each flow, and
there is four minutes between
each flow. I watched five flows.
It’s all right, I tell you.”
“Timed the flow!” mimicked
Mrs, Prang. “He timed the flow!
Good Gawd! Something wants
doing to it, that’s all I know, and
he times the flow ! I’ll show you
to your room.”
6 6CJOME friends of my late
hubby’s are do\yn in the
lounge,” remarked my hostess,
as I put my suitcase down and
contemplated the four walls and
blacklead fireplace of my new
home. “Over from Brisbane for
a couple of days. They never
miss coming to see me; isn’t
that nice?
“Come down and meet them.
You’re not doing anything are
you? Are you married? Oh,
well, never mind; you want to
have some fun first. That’ll be
three pounds for the first fort-
night. You can pay me now if
you like; saves trouble.”
The notes changed hands, and
I hoped she understood that they
were meant for the room and
not for any pre-marital fun.
T IGHT shone palely through
the lounge-window that
opened on to a cemented back-
yard ; the water from the cistern
in the Men’s next-door dribbled
constantly and rose at four-
minute intervals to an eldritch
scream. Introductions to the
late hubby’s two Brisbane friends
were over, and I had met Mrs.
Rednez, the ex-lady-alderman.
All three were well launched on
rolling seas of alcohol.
By five o’clock I knew every-
one quite well. Bonnie and Rita
had been out for their “break,”
after which I knew that Reg
was no good at all; but because
he was Mrs. Prang’s boy-friend,
he just pleased himself what he
did about the place. This appar-
ently was all right while love’s
path ran smoothly; but when
they were engaged in one of their
periodical lovers’-quarrels, any-
thing might happen.
They were engaged in one
now, because of the waste of
water in the Men’s, and Reg was
being difficult, Bonnie and Rita
thought they would give notice
although they had worked there
for years, and nobody could be
expected to put up with Reg.
Rita’s daughter was going to be
married in a fortnight, and
Bonnie showed me an intimate
bruise where her boy-friend had
hit her with a piece of four-by-
two.
“Well, well, well. How are we
going? How are we going?
Everything all right? Eh?"
bawled Mrs. Prang as she
rejoined us for her fifth —or was
it her seventh?—whisky, “I
must show you my cocky. He’s
eating his own feathers.”
“Good heavens, dear!” cried
Mrs. Rednez. “Is he hungry?”
Mrs. Prang was not at all
amused. “No,” she replied
shortly. “How could he be
hungry? He gets the best of
attention.” She addressed her-
self to me: “Sunflower-seeds,
and other seeds he eats,” she
said, “and all sorts of stuff. He
eats them out of my mouth. But
he’s sick, poor little thing.”
“An aunt of mine had fowls
that used to do the same thing, ’
said Mrs. Rednez, “and she gave
them bile-beans. But that didnj
do any good. They pecker
themselves to death.”
A subdued murmur of concern
went round the table. Mrs
Rednez was quick to see that
she had gained the esteem of the
company, and was about to adc


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Ettablished 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STHUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JT. E. MANION, Manager,
branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre's
sr
»>»■
<1 1»
I
*7
/
-W
i
a:s
.
/
7
.1
■
/ r
■
EifiIHJLS
9/fifou
WoV€ilUlWliiilh,..
... here it is —an overcoat that is happy
in the rain; a coat that laughs at the coldest
weather, chills and influenza.
Stamina pre-tailored winter-proofed
overcoats are made from double- warp, Pure
Wool Crusader Cloth woven specially for
extra warmth and long wear. *
Stamina gives you a choice of three
styles ... Raglan, Box Chester, and Double
Breasted Polo, in popular, serviceable fawn or
grey tones ... at only £l7 19' 6d,
ASK FOR
Siomiaa
SHOWERPROOF
some picturesque details when
she was interrupted.
“Jean!” shouted Reg. “Here’s
the man come to fix the wireless.”
“No!” yelled Mrs. Prang.
“He can’t do it now. Every-
thing happens at once. Gawd
Almighty, I’ve just had the
brewery delivery here. It’s
always the same” —to me —“if it’s
not one damn’ thing it’s another.
You can’t get a minute’s peace.
If you could only get staff that
could do something. But I’ve
got to do everything myself, and
I’m a widow. Don’t touch that
thing!”
TTER last direction was to the
wireless-expert a tall,
incredibly thin, pimply, wistful-
looking expert, who stood smiling
uncertainly.
“I’ll have to do it now, Mrs,
P.,” he said. “They’ve just sent
me round from the shop.”
“Get out!” she bellowed.
“And let them just send you
round some other time. I’m
trying to talk to some friends of
my late hubby over from
Brisbane.”
The expert advanced a couple
of steps.
“I can take it round to the
shop, Mrs. P.,” he said
apologetically.
Still wearing his sickly smile,
he moved both arms irresolutely
upwards to take the wireless from
the shelf above our table. His
left arm struck the lead coming
from the power-point to the
electric-fan which balanced,
squat and menacing, on the
wireless.
“Oh, Gawd,” groaned Mrs.
Prang, as the fan struck her on
the head. “Oh, Gawd!” and
she slumped across the table.
A fearful shriek came from
the water in the cistern in the
Men’s.
The expert stood petrified ; but
Mrs. Rednez, displaying an
admirable ability to rise promptly
in an emergency, rushed like a
cankered rose-of-no-man’s-land
to our stricken hostess. Her
fingers disappeared into the mass
of jet-black hair, pearl combs
and bobby-pins crowning Mrs.
Prang in glory, and probed
professionally about the scalp.
She withdrew them smeared with
blood. Red with rage, and
bristling like a broody Valkyrie,
she turned to the wretched,
gawky expert.
“You mug!” she bawled.
“I think,” he whimpered
faintly, quite unable to give his.
sorrow words, “I’ll come back
and fix the wireless tomorrow.”
Then he was gone.
A frightful moan escaped Mrs.
Prang like a note from a double-
bass immersed in a quagmire.
“She’s coming round,” cried
one,.of the late hubby’s friends
excitedly and unnecessarily.
“She’s coming to! Reg! Bring
some brandy.”
Mrs, Prang showed the whites
of her eyes; then slowly sat up
and looked round, more in
sorrow than in anger.
“Oh,” she moaned, with her
hand to her head. “Oh, Gawd.
Look at the fan. It’s broke now,
as well as the wireless.”
Reg appeared with the brandy
—a lady’s-waistful—and stood
there on thorns, heart-stricken
and steeped to the lips in misery
and alcohol,
Mrs. Prang swallowed the
brandy in two gulps and began
to cry,
Reg’s cup of wretchedness-was
full-laden.
“Now don’t worry,” he con-
soled her. “You’re all right.
Everything’s, going along O.K.
You stay here and we’ll look
after the bar. Take it easy,
Jeannie, old girl, you don’t have
to worry. I’ll look after every-
thing.”
“Oh, no,” she snorted, “I
don’t have to worry! I’m the
one that got the crack on the
skull, that’s all.” Reg’s face fell.
“You’ll look after everything all
right,” she continued, her voice
rising. “Why, you can’t even
look after the Men’s toilet.”
“Ar,” glowered Reg, “Ar —
you silly old bat. I’ve had a
bellyful.”
6 know,” confided Reg
in the muffled, forlorn
tones of a despondent Great
Dane when I went to the bar to
order the next round, “she’s a
silly old cow, but her heart’s in
the right place. She’d do anyone
a good turn. Just you ask her
for a couple of bottled beer and
you’ll see. She’ll give it to you.
She’s got a heart of gold.”
He finished his schooner
without swallowing or moving a
muscle of his throat, and re-
filled it. “But she’s, ruining this
pub. Couldn’t manage it at all
without me. None of the
customers like her; but she’s a
flamin’ good-hearted woman and
I wouldn’t see any of them pigs
out there hurt a hair of her
head.”
His voice had become husky
with what could only have been
affection, and he glared resent-
fully out at hubby’s friends and
Mrs. Rednez.
“None of them,” he continued
dramatically, “had better start
anything while I’m about. I’ve
just about had the lot of them.”
His voice had risen, and I could
detect a distraught note. Rage
was boiling in his veins.
Back at the table, Mrs, Prang
was allowing herself to be
mollified by Mrs. Rednez and
the two gentlemen. Mrs.
Rednez, blissfully unaware of the
jealousy seething and bubbling
in Reg, had captured the interest
of the company once again. She
laughed loudly at many of her
own little limericks, and so did
the late Mr. Prang’s friends —
all with the commendable con-
sideration of snapping their
hostess out of her doleful
dumps.
Mrs. Rednez’s reputation as an
alderman, though not inconsider-
able, by no means equalled her
celebrity as a spinner of yams.
Her latest poem, which dealt with
the young man from Thirroul,
was acclaimed by all. .Even Mrs.
Prang was feeling much better
and began, not unskilfully, to
repair the remains of her com-
plexion.
The lounge now irradiated
with rosy light reflected from
the setting sun and the moist
crimson laces of the two gentle-
men from Brisbane ; the atmo-
sphere was once again festive
and jocose, and Mrs, Rednez
was regaling us with the story
of the young man from North
Sydney, when she was inter-
rupted by Reg bearing a tray of
drinks.
“Hello, hello, hello,” cried
Mrs. Prang gaily. “What’s this?
What’s this?”
“Thought- I’d shout a round,”
said Reg, making a gallant effort
to enter into the spirit of the
company.
“Yes, that’s all very well,”
responded Mrs. Prang, “but
who’s going to pay for them?”
“I’m going to pay for them,”
replied Reg, testily.
“Well, that’s all right, then,”
she said, and took one with a
smile that embraced us all, and
a wink that plainly said, “he’s
not going to put anything over
me.”
The intensity of Reg’s emotion
was too great to be interpreted
in speech, so he took a long
drink,
“Are you sure you didn’t lace
it with thallium?” inquired Mrs.
Rednez tartly.
A VICAR delightedly
announcing the garden
fete, and then finding that it
clashed horribly with St. Pat-
rick’s Church Housie Night and
would have to be postponed,
could hardly have looked more
dejected than Reg did at his re-
ception. As the brine of insult
began to permeate him, the blood
surged to his face and suffused
his skin with the color of corned-
beef.
“How much longer,” I won-
dered, “before the explosion?”
So I plunged in fatuously to
create diversion.
“There’s an art, Reg,” I said,
looking appreciatively, I
thought—at my glass, “in know-
ing how to pull a beer properly.”
The moment I said it I realised
the blunder.
“Pull it properly! ” he choked.
“Pull it properly! I’m the only
one in this Gawd-forsaken place
who knows how to pull a beer.
I don’t top it off with a jug like
some of these other mugs, A
man tries to do the decent thing
here and you—you” His
voice had risen to a crescendo,
and he glared murderously at
the late Mr, Prang’s two friends
from Brisbane, who drew back
and turned a nasty pallor, like
two tomatoes who had just
received bad news.
“Here, here,” cried Mrs.
Prang. “You can’t go on like
that. You remember where you
are. This is my hotel and these
are my friends.”
“Really, love,” put in Mrs.
Rednez, “I don’t know how you
can endure the staff you keep.
You poor dear.”
Her tone clearly conveyed that
she considered her friend was
supporting a group of feeble-
minded employees.
“Shut up, you,” howled Reg.
“Cop this, you red-headed old
bag!”
A liquid amber arch shot from
his glass to Mrs. Rednez’s face
and her complexion seemed to
disintegrate. Little streams of
henna ran from her hair down
the temples, and mingled with
the brighter-red rivulets of rouge
from her cheeks.
Such a look of incredulous
horror as would have done credit
to a virgin being offered as
tribute to the sea monster trans-
fixed her face. Her mouth
opened and closed once or twice
in fishlike fashion; then she
screamed with ten times the
volume of the vexatious cistern
in the Men’s.
All drinking ceased in the bar
and people crowded and jostled
around, A bedlam of excited
hullabaloo arose. Mrs. Prang
took command.
“Back! Back you all get,” she
spluttered. “I’m going to call
the police.”
“That ? s right,” bawled Reg,
“bring the cops. Put me in.
That’s the thanks I get.” He
appealed to the bar. “Look at
her,” he sneered. “Just look.
Oh, what a beauty! A man
works his guts out for her and
what does he get? She puts the
cops on a man.”
The crowd made way for Reg.
Wherever he moved people fell
back from him as though he was
selling buttons for a charity.
Evidently they had seen him like
this before.
Suddenly his mood changed.
“I’m a peaceful man,” he roared.
“I hate trouble!”
His protestations would have
had greater effect if he had not
emphasised each by picking up
the nearest glass and hurling, it
against the wall.
“I’m an easy-going bloke, but
{Continued on page 34)


with the NEW
Gillette
The new Gillette ‘Rocket Set’
is Superspeed Shaving at a price
to suit every pocket. Compact
moulded case, quick-action
one-piece Gillette Razor,
quick-feed Dispenser with
six Blue Gillette Blades
and a place for used
blades. All for only 9/6.
fI WfNS£R
i
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
La vina
range,
/(L W Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £14/15/-.
*>
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £12/15/",
Ar Every LAVINA has a non•
magnetic escapement pad a
17-jewelled movement.
lAVMNA
WATCHES
%, (iwi 4 ikd
Between
-
Ourselves
f
-—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THIS
SEND FOR,
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
JACKSON & 0
SYDNEY
DUPLICATOR
Hot all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only o frac-
tion of their cost. The
■'National'" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plant.
Music, etc.
te lf I* Australia hj
’SULLIVAN Pit. LTD.
AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agentf~~ ...
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. VtJ. hm.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon it Sont LM.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book Go. (Aurt.J
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of Maoriland and
Other Verses by Arthur H. Adams,
The Ways of Many Waters by E. J.
Brady, The Hidden Tide by Roderic
Queen, A Rose of Regret by James
Hebblethwaite, The Circling Hearths
by Roderic Quinn and Castro’s Last
Sacrament by Albert Dorrington. —
5890.
To buy worm-wheel for 1926-28
Standard Coventry coupe.—sBB9.
To buy copy of Crescendo by Ethel
Mannin.—5891.
Copy of verse “Nine Miles from
Gundagai” by Jack Moses.—5892.
To buy copy of Genesis of Queens-
land, Knight’s Early Days, Capt.
Rhodes’s Pacific Pageant (2 vols.); also
clippings and books regarding ship-
ping.—5893.
Information Sought
What size is the yellow-bellied flying
possum, and what regions does it
inhabit? Short description?
This possum ( Petaurus australis ),
which inhabits the coastal ranges of
N. S. Wales and Victoria, is much
smaller than the silvergrey possum,
though still of considerable size, the
head and body being 12in. long and
the tail Din. It has long fur, brown
on the upper surface, and' variously
marked with orange and black; the
undersurface is orange. The long
tail is very bushy, especially at the
base.
* * * *
What is, the best method of treating
crotons in order to bring out the
brilliant leaf-colors ?
Keep the pot-plants in a northerly
aspect so that as much sunshine as
possible can shine on the leaves.
Where the plants are kept in a con-
servatory place them near the glass.
Remove old leaves, and when young
growth appears dig in a small quantity
of superphosphate (about a teaspoon-
ful) about the roots. Crotons are at
their best after about two years.
* * ♦ «
(i) How can wattle be propagated
from seed? (2) When should estab-
lished trees be pruned ?
(1) Acacia seed should be sown
from September to December in pans
or shallow boxes containing equal
parts of leaf-mould, sand and sieved
soil. It will help germination if the
seed is placed in hot water for an hour
before being sown. Damp the soil,
then cover with a thin layer of grass
clippings, and finally place in a glass-
frame or cover the boxes with glass.
When the seedlings appear gradually
lift the covering. (2) Only if the trees
are getting too large should they be
pruned, and then immediately the
flowering is over.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Some details surrounding the mar-
riage of the late King George VI?
The Queen Mother before her mar-
riage was Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon,
the youngest daughter of the Earl and
Countess of Strathmore, one of the
oldest families of the Scottish aris-
tocracy. The Strathmore crest com-
memorates the marriage in 1372 of
the Lady Jean Stewart, daughter of
Robert II of Scotland, with Sir John
Lyon of Forteviot, who was then
made Thane of Glamis. (Tradition
has it that it is in truth Macbeth’s
castle, though no certain claim can be
established.) The formal announce-
ment of the engagement was made on
Jan. 16, 1923; the Court circular
recorded the greatest pleasure of King
George V and Queen Mary in
announcing the betrothal, “to which
the King had gladly given his con-
sent.” The formalities were com-
pleted at a special meeting of the
Privy Council on Feb. 12, when in
pursuance of the Royal Marriage Act
of 1772 the document signifying
Royal consent was signed. This for-
mality was necessary because of the
enactment that no descendant of King
George II should contract matrimony
without previous consent of his
Majesty, his Heirs or Successors.
Another provision of the Royal Mar-
riage Act was that Royal Princes must
only marry Royalties. King George
V had previously announced that his
younger children would be permitted
to choose their cohsorts from the
families of the first three ranks of
the British nobility (Dukes, Mar-
quesses and Earls). Queen Victoria
had allowed two of her daughters to
do so, and the Princess Royal was the
first of the House of Windsor to marry
an English aristocrat. It can be stated
without question that the marriage of
the late King to the Queen Mother
(Apl. 26, 1923) met with the over-
whelming approval of the whole
nation.
Does Anybody Know?
Is there a differential and/or com-
plete rear assembly that could easily
be used to replace that of a 1926-28
Standard Coventry coupe.—sBB9.
Brief Answers
H.R.8.: Governor Phillip’s Look-
out is situated at Beacon Hill, over-
looking Manly and Warringah Shire,
and about half a mile north of
Brookvale (N.S.W.) 8.C.: Cannot
supply name and address of a con-
tributor without his permission. A
letter addressed to the nom-de-plume,
care of The Bulletin, would be for-
warded F.L.: The Duke of Kent
married Princess Marina of Greece
and Denmark on November 29, 1934.
L.B.: The line is from George
Moore’s essay “Mummer-worship,”
and the correct version is “Acting is
therefore the lowest of the arts, if it is
an art at all” J. 8.5.: Peter Jackson
and Jim Corbett fought in San Fran-
cisco on May 21, 1891. After 61
rounds both boxers were exhausted,
and the referee, deciding neither was
fit to carry on, declared “no fight.”
The decision was later changed to a
draw,.. .T.H.S.: There are eight notes
on a pipe chanter, with no sharps or
flats, and it is only a piece of music
written within the range of these notes
that can be played on the pipes, and
then only in the key the pipes are set
to P.M.G.: Dissolve sodium sili-
cate in boiling water to about the
consistency of a* syrup, approximately
one part silicate to three parts water.
Material can be obtained from all
wholesale chemists 8.V.R.:
According to the secretary of the
Manly, Warringah and Pittwater His-
torical Society, the surveyor making
the original survey in the locality
named the beach. He called it Forty
Baskets beach because fishermen
caught a record of 40 baskets of fish.
M.P.: Guy Eden was the author
of Bush Ballads and Other Verses,
published by Sisley, London, 1907....
V.F.: The quotation “An unforgiving
eye and a damned disinheriting con-
tenance” is from Sheridan’s “School
for Scandal,” Act IV, Scene i.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. Nonliability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.E.: Obviously you have never
robbed a bank M.N.D.: Want
something better than “an effort
dashed off in a few minutes”
H.V. :You have a copious supply of
words, but very few ideas E.S.:
But does it mean anything?
A. : “The Comeback” has an apt
title FJ.G.: Story about down-
and-out who wins first-prize in the
lottery joined its mates in the basket.
. ...0.M.; A labyrinth of meaning-
less phrases R.W.: That particular
drunk is in bad repute here L.W.:
Can’t spare all that space for descrip-
tion of man chasing his hat
E.A.8.: How one daydreams when
one is young H.E.H.: You tarry
too long over the scenery LB.
“There may be some slight faults.”
Slight! K.D.: Boil it down to
one-half. It can be done easily
B. ; We’re tired of ships that “cleave
the waters blue” K.McG.; Re-
marks on “the smug conservatism of
half-educated criticism” duly noted.
... .E.L.F.: There is a dreadful same-
ness about these cattle-duffing yarns.
Yours is just one of the multitude
P.F.W.: Did you ever see anything
remotely like that in The Bulletin?
J.M.B.: After the first two lines
inspiration seems to have deserted
you and you couldn’t find a rhyme
worth twopence J.R.H.: Little use
posting off a dying day to an editor.
It’s practically always dead before it
reaches him A.M.R.: Marvellous
how lightning always kills a would-be
murderer in the nick of time
S.H.: Set the whole staff weeping;
the newest junior typiste hasn’t had
a dry eye since S.McK.: We can’t
avoid the suspicion that you named
him Jones to get a rhyme for bones.
~.. A.M.: Account of verbal skirmish
between the helmsman and the first-
mate is fit only for circulation in
the fo’c’sle L.S.; One fatal flaw
is that insurance cos. don’t pay
out on suicides unless the policy has
been in force at least a year
R.C.: We’d like to hear from you
after you’ve been a little longer in
the country W.V.H.: Its six-
months rest has done it little good
H.D.: Sorry to have to break the
news to you that they’re among the
week’s worst.., .L.A.S.; No hope of
getting into print with tosh of that
kind... .R.F.: Ah, but it would have
made a great melodrama in the brave
days of fifty years ago S.G.D.:
Even in our mellowest mood we
couldn’t take to those children....
F. Quite the worst of a big batch
of atrocious Petrov doggerel S.P.:
That’s a long rigmarole to struggle
through before the climax arrives....
D. : Growing tired of the chival-
rous burglar and the female intruder
who also turns out to be a crook
E. .: Not swapping a cheque for
that philosophical barman....
H.A.8.: It is so dead that it should
be wrapped in a winding-sheet in-
stead of a manilla envelope....
G. : If payment was per typing
errors, you’d earn a fortune
F. Commendable patriotism,
but darned poor verse K. 8.: If
we ran a tourist-bureau we’d make
you laureate W.M.: But why the
French tags? Our own language is
quite adequate 8.C.H.: Try again;
but beware of dragging in words
by the scalp for the sake of the
rhymes A.P.S.: Your Muse is a
disorderly creature J.D.: Before
penning any more lines like “Why
does the wombat and the rabbit dig
their holes down in the ground?” it
might be worth while considering
where else could they dig them
8.L.: Never mind about the sunset;
it’s what Jim and Nora are going to
do that counts.


An Office-boy’s Odyssey
3. —Kalgoorlie in Forrest’s Day
By J.E. WEBB
I WAS to spend between two
and three years in Kalgoorlie,
and to leave it all the better
for the experience.
There I learned the rudiments
of journalism, lived among fine
people, made good friends and
met or heard of interesting
characters. I just missed seeing
Herbert Charles Hoover, who
was on his way to China, Young
as he was he had made an im-
pression in the West as one of
the Bewick, Moreing *team of
mining engineers ; to The
Bulletin, unconsciously pro-
phetic, he was Hail Columbia
Hooyer. At just on 80 Hoover
is still active at Republican-
party conventions and able to
raise a laugh at his own expense ;
this he did recently by saying
with a grin, that he had figured
mas many farewells as Patti. I
a 1?, s ! J F e J l2 remembers our Vv est
With kmdness.
t youB S mining engineers
I dm meet were Gerald and Tom
Browne, sons of Rolf Boldre-
wo i )B -
Fine horsemen both, as was
only to be expected, they played
polo with sparks as bright as
themselves, mostly colonial-
expenence Johnnies” from
Britain; and in an inauspicious
moment their polo club decided
to stage a race-meeting on the
Kalgoorlie course. It was a sue-
cess as far as attendance went,
and the bookies were delighted,
for outsider after outsider rolled
home ; but the mob” was with
difficulty restrained from tearing
down stand, fences and horse-
boxes and chasing the club into
the bush.
Next day its sentiments were
provocatively recorded in a “Sun-
day Sun” report headed “ ‘Rob-
bery Under Arms’.... How the
Elite Race.”
As soon as the Brownes
learned that the editor and
manager were at their posts
they descended on the “Sun”
office looking for fight. It was
agreed that honor would be
satisfied if Gerald had it out with
Arthur Reid, the manager.
So the combatants and their
supporters adjourned to the
“Sun” backyard, where Reid
took a hiding manfully for ten
rounds, each marked by a knock-
down, and was then unable to
rise. The winner lifted him to
his feet, shook his hand admir-
ingly, and declared the incident
closed. Afterwards over drinks
in the adjoining pub, Gerald
intimated that he and his brother
would have read the report with
philosophic resignation if it
hadn’t been for that reference to
his sire’s masterpiece. “Rob-
bery Under Arms," he said
pensively—“the only decent book
the old man ever wrote.”
My first impressions of
Kalgoorlie were unfavorable. To
me it seemed an unlovely collec-
tion of galvanised-iron and
hessian shacks dumped down in
a desert, on the surface brick-
hard and that summer nearly
brick-hot. This gave one a feeling
of impermanence, as if all hands
doubted whether the lodes would
five down and stood ready to
move on when they petered out.
There had been an exodus of
that sort from C oolgardie,
already “the Old Camp” to Kal-
goorlie people and to poets a
theme for mournful effusions
like » xhe 01d Coolgardie
R oa d,” included by Douglas
Stewart in his anthology and
written by Dorrie Doolette,
a son of the managing-director
0 f the Great Boulder Proprietary,
and a mine-manager himself.
Actually, it was only seven years
s i nce the first gold-strike at Cool-
gardie, till then not even marked
on the map ; but seven years
seems a tremendous time when
one j s young, as most of the
Kalgoorlians were,
j had another cause for un-
easiness. A cousin to whom I
wr ote from Melbourne had met
me a t the railway-station and
put me up at his cottage. But
m y presence there was unwel-
come to another member of the
household, and after a few days
s he made this so obvious that I
packed my one small trunk and
sought hospitality from a queer
character named Jonathan
Morris, whose curt formula was
“Meals, a shillin’; beds, eighteen-
pence.” Jonathan took me in,
a nd though some anxious days
followed I was not to test his
well-deserved reputation for
heaving out lodgers guilty of one
default,
My cousin I repaid by “lend-
jng” him a pound in a betting-
shop to which he had conducted
me d y W ay of showing me the
sights ; he lost it on one of four
certainties he had picked for the
same race while studying the
chart. As it seemed to me then,
the principal recreations of Kal-
goorlie people were losing money
on horses and*buying and selling
shares.
When there was little of Uncle
John’s £lO left a solicitor put me
on, once more as a temporary
hand, at a pound a week. As
%
soon as I felt sure that I would
draw the three-and-four a day
for the stipulated three months I
shifted quarters to a one-roomed
hessian camp furnished with a
stretcher-bed, blanket and sheet,
table-knife, fork and spoon,
methylated-spirits “stove” and
kerosene-lamp, with a hundred-
gallon tank in the backyard
(water was then ten-shillings
the hundred gallons, delivered
in tank) for servicing kitchen,
The writer of these articles,
John E. Webb, was editor of
The Bulletin from 1933 until
1948.
laundry and bath. This was
•to be my home throughout
my stay in Kalgoorlie, but I
didn’t mind, for 1 had come pre-
pared to rough it and in that
home I felt free.
Moreover, I *had grown to
like Kalgoorlie. Hannan-street
—named after the pioneer pro-
spector, a small, taciturn, elderly
Irishman who was greatly re-
spected, and whom I was to meet
—was a street of wonder, more
brilliantly lighted than Bourke-
street or Collins-street, Mel-
bourne ; and going about as I
did I could see evidences of
municipal thoroughness and fore-
sight in the wide and clean
suburban streets, on the sides of
which sedulously watered pep-
per-trees had been planted. The
mayor was Norbert Keenan, an
arid-looking but very efficient
Irish lawyer with a gift for get-
ting things done. He died in
Perth recently, at 90, having been
a State member for many years
and Attorney-General.
Before my term at the solici-
tor’s was up I was appointed
proofreader’s boy on the morn-
ing paper, the “Miner”; and
here I was to “find” myself at
last. My chief task was to read
all “copy” aloud to the man who
made the corrections in proofs
and “revises,” and I must have
done it tolerably well. Anyway, I
caught the approving eye of
Edward Irving, the sub-editor,
and presently found myself a
junior reporter at twenty-five
bob a week.
Irving was one of the grandest
fellows I have known, A tall,
spare man in middle-life, he was
a son of Professor Irving, of Mel-
bourne University, and a grand-
son of that Edward Irving who
was Jane Welsh’s lover before
she married Carlyle, the dearest
friend of both after that event
and the most fashionable
preacher of his day in London
and Edinburgh. “Towards all
distressed people,” Carlyle wrote
in his Reminiscences, “Irving’s
kindness, frank helpfulness, long-
suffering and assiduity were in
truth wonderful,” and that is how
the grandson struck me. Like
his father and his grandfather,
our Edward Irving had been
bred to the teaching profession
and was an M.A,
Though the “Miner” was
making heaps of money for the
proprietors, J. W. Kirwan (editor
also), two Hocking brothers and
the printer, Wilcox, it was under-
staffed, and as soon as I had
shown some aptitude and entire
willingness to tackle anything I
was given heaps to do. I attended
to all the court work, chronicled
council and public meetings, did
Trades Hall and police round,
reported the fights and helped the
sporting-writer at the racecourse,
acting as his deputy more than
once. And all for five crowns a
week in Australia’s dearest town ;
and the week was seven days!
I placed my position before
Irving, telling him that, while I
was getting sufficient food and
was comfortable enough, I
couldn’t dress the part decently
on twenty-five shillings a week
and share with my mother in
Victoria, as I was bound to do.
He sighed and said, “You know,
Webb, there’s none of us drawing
much here.” I knew that. Irv-
ing’s own salary was £5 a week ;
the reporter’s - (by this time only
one) was a pound less and so was
the sporting “editor’s.”
Generous in all things, Irving
promised to place my case before
Kirwan, and that worthy, doubt-
less after much pressing, agreed
to raise my pay from twenty-five
bob a week to thirty-bob.
It is not in my nature to hate
fellow-mortals, but I have never
disliked anyone as much as I
disliked, Kirwan, an Irishman
without generosity or charm.
Though a dull writer and a duller
speaker, he had made a gold-
fields reputation by running a
Separation for Federation
League and attacking John
Forrest and all his works; and
it was agreed, even at the Trades
Hall, that he must become Kal-
goorlie’s first Federal member.
And so he did, but he lasted only
one term, being unseated by
Charlie Frazer, a Trades Hall pal
of mine, who was to reach Minis-
terial rank and die young. Labor
could have beaten Kirwan hands
down in 1901 with a candidate
of its own, such as Billy Johnson
or Tommy Bath, also pals of
mine, and afterwards State
Ministers, but unaccountably
failed to realise it.
I met Kirwan in a later year,
when I was out of his clutches
and otherwise in fairly comfort-
able circumstances, A third party
mentioning my name and brand,
Kirwan at first affected not to
know me. Presently he said,
“Oh, I remember you now —
you’re the fellow who used to be
always asking me for a rise.” I
replied in, I hope, suitable terms.
Pulling every string within reach
the dreary Forrest-baiter had
got into the Legislative Council
and was to become its president
and a knight. When I came to
know Forrest I found him worth
a ton of Kirwans.
I made another Kalgoorlie
friend as dear to me as Irving:
Andree Hayward, then editor of
the “Sun.” Struck with some
pars. I had written, he placed
a weekly column at my disposal
and paid me a guinea for it,
thus freeing me from my
financial difficulties, A barrister
by profession, son of a fine old
English gentleman whose por-
trait he used to show to friends
with filial pride, Hayward prac-
tised in South Africa for a time.
Enemies used to assert that the
only brief he got was from a
Kaffir accused of pinching a pair
iof pants. Be that as it may, he
(migrated to Westralia and took
to journalism, becoming an
editor at Cue and then at Gerald-
ton, the latter for a great admirer,
Johnnie Drew, who was to lead
for Labor in the Legislative
Council for many years. From
Geraldton he came to Kalgoorlie
and the editorship of the “Sun,”
this at the instance of Reid, a
good judge of stuff and a good
fellow, though he was to fall on
evil days* In process of time
Hayward was to join me on The
Bulletin staff and, as “T. the R.”
(short for “Thomas the
Rhymer”), to write polished
verse, spiced with humor, which
was unexcelled anywhere.
I was in Kalgoorlie when the
Mundaring water was turned on,
and a great occasion it was.
Public men came to the cere-
mony from every State, among
them- George Houston Reid,
sometime Premier of N. S. Wales
and Prime-Minister-to-be. Reid’s
adipose figure and comic, spec-
tacled frontispiece had been
made everywhere familiar by
“Hop’s” Bulletin cartoons, and
laughing throngs followed him
as he waddled about Kalgoorlie
and Boulder streets. He didn’t
turn a hair ; and his speech at the
official banquet convinced us all
that his refutation was
thoroughly deserved. One of his
quips became part of the story of
that day. “In all my life,” he
drawled, “I have never heard so
much talk of water and seen so
little drunk,”
Forrest, in his speech, was too
generous to stress his part in
the achievement of the water
scheme, nor did he complain of
the long-continued campaign of
press sneers and predictions that
the water would never reach
Kalgoorlie,
But he couldn’t refrain from
lamenting the fate of Charles
Yelverton O’Connor. With
Forrest’s unwavering support,
O’Connor, an Irish engineer of
genius who had come to Wes-
tralia from New Zealand, had
transformed a shallow estuary
at Fremantle into a harbor equal
to all demands, and had dammed,
piped and pumped water 370
miles: all in five years from
the turning of the first sod at
Mundaring, A man who de-
served the applause of his con-
temporaries and the gratitude of
posterity if ever there was one.
Yet, worn out by worry and
maddened by press “criticism,”
which in at least one case was
venomously personal, he died
before what would, in happier
circumstances, have been the
crowning triumph of his career
—died by his own hand.
My days as “Miner” reporter
at thirty-bob a week were run-
ning out. Hayward had gone to
Perth to edit the “Sunday
Times,” which, like the “Sun,”
was owned by Reid and
James MacCallum Smith, and
he invited me to join him at £4
a week. Naturally, I jumped at
the chance, and when I told the
Kirwan crowd, I realised half-
bitterly, half-amusedly, that they
would have to cough-up more
for a successor. All the same, I
quitted Kalgoorlie with some
regret. In a way I had been
happy there and had learned a
lot,
{To be continued next week)
SEASCAPE
The sea is sad this silent, sunny day;
Lonely this sweep of shining beach
Where plaintive gulls, smooth on white marble wings,
Swoop low and screech around the empty bay
Where lightly passed the golden years of play.
The world was with mo then, and where
I was, was all my world; life, like these sands,
Ran brittle, blood-warm through my careless hands.
Gleamed round like sun-filled sea-drops from my hair.
Old man beside the sea! Behind me lies
The definite; the infinite before.
Spurning the sands 1 rest my musing eyes
Where endless seas draw down tl>e ageless skies;
Held by the child in me to this pale shore,
The eternal in me reaches out to sea—
Sand, sea, sky, shore, all future and all past
Meet in this sentient present, meet in me.
TASMANIA.
J.C.H.
FOX
The red rogue, summer, crept out in August
To steal the morning by Myall Creek;
The shock of his scent filled a gully’s throat
Above the lantana’s hot green reek.
His burnt-black pads set softly down
In the clearing toothed with ironbark stumps,
The flash of his ash-grey fleeting legs
On the ridge that the tea-trees climb and crown
I chanced to see and followed over
The coxcomb crest and the grass-fall bright
As a tumbling stream; in the bracken smouldered
His brush and fell with a fiercer light . . .
Now the dark horn blows on Myall Mountain
And whetted points gleam coldly white
To hunt the flyer, he threads with fire
My mind’s dim valleys in new delight.
N.S.W.
R.D. MURPHY.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUCER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
I WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY,
aw.156.1*
SPORTING NOTIONS
It’s back to Randwick this
Saturday for Sydney racegoers
and the running of the historic
weight-for-age Ta 11 ers a 11 ’ s
Chelmsford Stakes (nine fur-
longs). The seven-furlongs
Tramway Handicap and the
Spring Handicap (H mile) are
other highlights, and from the
performances punters are ex-
pected to get a sound guide to
the major handicap events of the
A.J.C. spring fixture.
The Tramway, in particular,
should throw additional light
upon Epsom prospects, because
all horses prominent in betting
for the mile have an engage-
ment in this Saturday’s sprint.
In recent years High Law (1952),
De La Salle (1948) and Shannon
(1945) all won the Tramway
Handicap and followed-up by
scoring in the Epsom. Twelve
months ago Spearby, a non-
miler, at 40 to 1, downed odds-
on Silver Phantom in the Tram-
way, but Silve* Phantom easily
won the Epsom, in which
Spearby finished fourth.
Dating back to the late ’nine-
ties, the Chelmsford Stakes has
been frequently won by New
Zealand-owned or -bred horses ;
between 1927 and 1941 they
won the race no fewer than
11 times. Delta, however,
won the w.-f.-a. contest in
1950, 1951 and 1952, and
most other winners since 1942
have been bred this side of the
Tasman. In his 1952 win Delta
covered the nine furlongs in
1.49 i, an Australian record. He
beat Hydrogen and Idlewild. \
Royal Stream surprised last
season by defeating hot favorite
Carioca, with Cortauld third.
The last-named, now racing as
Prince Cortauld, is favorite
for the Epsom.
The allowance conditions
attached' to the Canterbury
Stakes has favored the smartest
sprinters in this test of speed,
and once again, on Saturday, a
runner enjoying an allowance of
141 bs —was successful,
while another similarly placed in
the race —Regoli—was runner-up
in the £1250 weight-for-age con-
test over six furlongs. The pair
easily beat favorite Tarien, who,
despite a disadvantage under the
conditions of the race, was con-
fidently supported at short odds.
Had Tarien been able to pilot the
field at her leisure, as she had
done in/the Warwick Stakes, she
might have won, but Karendi
kept the mare hard at it from the
start and that helped towards her
defeat. Twelve months ago the
same three horses filled the places
in the Canterbury Stakes, Regoli
then beating Tarien and Iroquois.
Saturday’s win by Iroquois was
welcome change of luck for Bill
Kelso, who sent the aged geld-
ing to the post in capital trim.
It was Noel McGrowdie’s first
success in this race.
Semaphoring of Sellwood’s
name as rider of Indian Myth at
Canterbury caused such a panic
rush in the betting-ring that the
horse’s price firmed from 4’s to
6 to 4, but after holding a strong
lead at the home-turn Indian
Myth was easily passed and
beaten by Neolight, an 8-to-l
chance piloted by stable-
apprentice Max Gallagher, the
lad’s first metropolitan win; he
handled Neolight well.
The Rosehill Guineas, to be
run a couple of weeks hence, is
expected to prove a final guide to
the A.J.C. Derby. At the
moment Sydney three-year-olds
most likely to figure in the
fighting-fine at Randwick on
October 2 are Telyar, Prince
Delville, El Carretero and Pride
of Egypt. On Canterbury
Guineas running Pride of Egypt
might be hard-pressed to see the
mile and a half right out, though
his Hobartville Stakes and Can-
terbury Guineas wins were full
of merit, with full credit to
jockey Bill Cook for super-tactics
on the front-runner. The Derby
will be run differently.
A grey winner of the A.J.C*
Derby would be unusual, but
Mrs. W. H. Tyler’s El Carretero
has the right breeding back-
ground for classic success. He
is closely related to San Martin,
a V.R.C. Derby winner. A son
of Delville Wood (imp.), Prince
Delville came home strongly in
third place in the Canterbury
Guineas.
Best of the Melbourne chances
in the A.J.C. Derby might be
Clear Springs and Fascinating.
No decision has so far been made
about a Sydney trip.
Early-season weight-for-age
racing often brings surprise
results. Another was added to
the list when 50-to-l Coppice, a
moderate handicapper—at least
till last Saturday—won the
w.-f.-a. Memsie Stakes at Caul-
field, downing hot favorite
Cromis (10 to 9 on), with Flying
Halo third. The verdict, a short
half-head, took the judge some
time to determine after receiving
the photo-finish proof. The race
didn’t say too much for those
behind the rank outsider ; they
included Rising Fast, popular
Cups fancy, and My Hero.
Bookmakers didn’t take long to
reduce the Caulfield Cup price
of Coppice; it was cut by 100
points. Evidently the shock win
impressed layers of the odds.
Coppice is raced by one of the
most prominent sportsmen in
racing, W. R. Kemball, and is a
five-year-old by Underwood
(imp.) from Hunter’s Lass by
Foxhunter. Coppice carried 9.1;
Cromis 9.0 and Flying Halo 9.4.
In the Caulfield Cup Coppice has
7.13. Maybe Saturday’s form
could be proved wrong. The
going was heaVy, Time for the
Memsie Stakes (1.55) was several
seconds outside the best for the
race, which in earlier years had
been won by Ajax (three times) ;
Hall Mark, Lawrence, Tranquil
Star, Attley and Comic Court
(twice).
Bred by E. A. Underwood at
his Warlaby stud (Vic.), Losari
won her first race when she
easily defeated Palucie and
Lovrano in the Second Glen
Eira Handicap at Caulfield. The
filly is by Dhoti (imp.) from
Filgaro by Lo Zingaro (imp.)
frpm Filial by Son o’ Mine
(imp.) A first foal, she is from
a half-sister to Savoy, winner of
several races on Melbourne
tracks and also at Rand wick.
She also is related to Nalda, a
winner of the V.R.C. Oaks.
Back in the pedigree figures
Gallant Fox, a crack American
galloper and winner of £65,000
in stakes.
Though Sir Pilot finished down
the course in the Rosehill Handi-
cap, won by Eleptro a week
earlier, he showed quick improve-
ment to win the Newcastle Cup
in time equalling the course
record for 11 furlongs, 2.17|.
Sir Pilot was fourth in betting
favor, but he won so well that
he firmed several points for the
Metropolitan, in which he has
8.4, or 91b. less than his New-
castle Cup weight. Jockey A,
Ward was impressed by the win.
Thoroughbred breeder M. V.
Point seems to have picked a real
winner in the French-bred sire
Royal Empire, now located at
Sledmere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
Point had an option over the
horse and exercised it at a high
figure, otherwise Royal Empire
would have gone to the stud in
America. Royal Empire has
more than pleased his owner by
siring the first two-year-old win-
ning filly of the new Australian
season, Lady Chincona, who
impressively landed both the
Dequetteville and the Cinderella
Stakes in Adelaide, her first two
race-starts. Later she is expected
to tackle the best Victorian two-
year-old fillies.
Within the space of one week
New Zealand champion
Gendarme temporarily lost caste
for the A.J.C.' Metropolitan, then
came right back to the top line
of favoritism. Following his
mediocre display a week earlier
in the Jellicoe Handicap (one
mile) at Ellerslie, under 10.3, he
brilliantly won the £3OOO Avon-
dale Cup (11 furlongs) with 9.9,
last Saturday. This certainly was
a grand trial for the Metrop,
Expected in Sydney this coming
weekend, Gendarme has 9.1 in
the Randwick staying race. He
beat 21 opponents in the Avon-
dale Cup,
In the first V.F.L. semi-final,
before a crowd of just on 42,000,
only a dqzen of whom had lined-
up the night before, Melbourne
knocked North out of the pro-
ceedings (16.14-11.14). North led
at the first change, and was still
ahead, by six points, at half-
time. Dominating the centre
and half-back line. North was
till then the better side, and if
“RIGHT uppercut, I told yer!"
it hadn’t decided to conceiltrate
more on the man than on the
ball it might have managed a
handier lead. As it was, the
Demons rallied, and for the first
time began to look like a team ;
they added 12 goals in the last
two quarters, for a clear five-
goals win.
Winner of the Brownlow
Medal (awarded to the V.F.L.’s
best and fairest player), big
Richmond ruckman Roy Wright
won it previously in 1952. He
has played super football right
through the season. Runner-up
for the Brownlow, though a fair
few votes behind Wright, the
consistent Collingwood follower
Neil Mann, winner of ’Wood’s
“best and fairest” trophy.
* *
In the Sydney Rugby Union
semi-final St. George beat East-
wood 12-6. The losers will now
play University, and the win-
ners of that game will play St.
George in the grand-final.
St. George three-quarter line
—Stapleton, Morton, Rose and
Fox —is very fast, but Eastwood
held them, and a pack led by
one of the best forwards in the
game, by determined tackling.
Eastwood played* what may be
called a balanced game; every
man doing his job so well that
it would be difficult to pick out
individuals. On the day, the
better side lost, although the
winners were a long way from
being a poor side. St. George
took the lead late, when Rose
kicked a penalty-goal, and
Sherrill put the issue beyond
doubt With a field-goal five
minutes from full-time.
A. Cameron, St. George cap-
tain and Australian second-
rower, pulled his team together
in the last hard minutes.
Cameron wasn’t spectacular in
the early stages, except in the
line-outs. But he was never far
from the ball, and he had the
taut look of perfect fitness.
Stapleton was hurt in the first
half and should have gone off —
nothing looks more pathetic than
a crippled winger. He stayed on,
thereby depriving his side of a
fit replacement. After that, with
a manifest gap wherever' Staple-
ton was, a greater burden rested
on the St. George forwards. To-
wards' the end of the game
Cameron made a run down the
line, brushing Eastwood defen-
ders aside.
An odd feature of Sydney
Rugby Union is the number of
young players who come from
school football, go almost
straight into international class,
and then retire in their early
twenties. An example of the
opposite tendency is Leo Magin-
nity, manager of the team leav-
ing this week for Suva and Fiji.
From the bush (the Upper
Murray) and now a city medico,
he’s been playing with undi-
minished keenness since he came
out of the R.A.A.F. and before;
still plays minor grade with
Eastern Suburbs, and referees as
wejl. What they call a good club-
man.
* * •
By the same margin by which
it had won the second Test in
Brisbane (4-1), Australia de-
feated N.Z. in the third Soccer
Test in Sydney on Saturday. It
thus retained, by two Tests to
one, the “Ashes” which it last
won in 1948 in N.Z. For only
a couple of bursts was N.Z. on
top, and the local side never
seemed in any real danger. In
a strong Australian forward-
line, the star was a last-minute
replacement, Englishman Bill
Murphy, who’s been in great
form in Sydney’s grade matches.
• * •
The Australian Open golf-
championship, played at Koo-
yonga (S.A.), was won by Vic-
torian professional Ossie Pick-
worth, who led all the way and
finished eight strokes in front of
Von Nida, the runner-up. The
Von had won it the last two
years. Pickworth had previously
won in 1946, 1947 and 1948.
This year he went round in 280
(70,, 71, 69, 70). Von Nida had
a brilliant final-round 67, but
was by then too far back to catch
Pickworth. Best amateur was
young South Australian Graham
Keane, who was only one stroke
behind Pickworth after two
rounds, but faded into fourth
place, 15 strokes behind him.
• ♦ •
Heavyweight boxers these
days are as rare as lightweight
prices, but two big gents, Alan
Williams (13.1) and , Mervyn
Cobb (13.12), had at each other
in the last Leichhardt Stadium
show. With his much longer
reach, Williams landed so many
portside punches that the heavier
heavyweight had already taken
plenty when a left floored him
late in round two. Cobb was
semi-conscious staggering to his
corner at “six,” and he still
seemed that way on coming up
for the third. So Williams lost
no time dropping him again,
whereupon Jack Burns declared
for Williams on a teekayo.


Can mice, would you think, sing?
Nature’s Nicer Novelties
By CECIL MANN
ONE of Sydney’s happy
breed of spare-time
naturalists —the one who
keeps snakes —has had
an Inigo Jones prophecy brought
home to him with special
hardness.
Mr. Jones, it should be
recalled, confidently and re-
peatedly predicted in The
Bulletin’s “Man on the Land”
pages that this was going to be
a dry winter. And so it has been.
The effect of this around Sydney
has been to make the ground as
hard as the Stock Exchange, and
with not enough surface moisture
on it to wet a frog’s feet. And
the effect of this, in turn, has been
that, instead of being able to just
go out wandering around picking
up the sort of things his pets
dote on, the snake-lover has had
to dig. While most of us have
been idly frolicking about in the
sunshine he has been toiling with
mattock and spade, digging
away, weekend after weekend,
in the native sandstone. He has
blisters on his hands as big as
gas-bills to prove it.
Has this made, him unhappy?
Not a bit. If anything, it has
made him happier. He has come
home at the end of the day with
what he has been able to dig up,
and his pets, the dear things, have
rewarded him with loving looks
and even caresses. He will tell
you so himself, and if you saw
the look that comes into his own
eyes you would believe him.
It establishes an axiom, a
recipe for a full and happy life:
Catch a bug—it doesn’t matter
what sort —early. You have only
to listen to this snake-lover talk-
ing about his pets to know he is
one of the happiest men in
Sydney.
Present writer, for his own
part, is happy to take the snake
chap’s word for the adoring
looks, etc. Not having caught
that particular bug himself, he
has only the one idea of snakes.
They’re snakes. This probably
is a Freudian complex, dating a
long way back to when one of the
vile things bit the best friend
he had on the nose, and the poor
pooch died.
To add, briefly, another snake
reminiscence, that sad event
happened on the N.S.W. North
Coast’s Tweed River, which at
that time had far more snakes
than even leading citizens or
kanakas. Then —it may still be
so —Stott’s Island, about half-
way up the river, was so thickly
covered with scrub jungle that
the foliage of the figs and the
rest made a solid roof. The
channel then ran close to the
island, and along there old
Captain Lowes used to slow the
Mibbin down so that passengers
could gaze at the snakes, dozens
of them, coiled up in their single
sinister heaps, sunning themselves
on the foliage-roof.
+ +
No doubt the Tweed has
changed since then, and maybe
the snakes have gone the way of
old Jacky Lynch and its other
famous characters, and which (if
any) of'Murwillumbah’s citizens
the police run-in now when they
want their hedge cut the present
writer doesn’t know. But what a
happy Paradise it would have
been then for anyone well bitten
by the snake-bug! Like the one
referred to here, or like, say, the
American naturalist Alan Devoe,
author of a current work called
This Fascinating Animal World
(published in London by, appro-
priately enough, Arthur Barker).
Mr. Devoe has a whole chapter
of reptile rhapsody, including
snakes as animals along with,
birds, beasts, fish and insects. It
says enough, finally, about a
personal allergy to the things
that Mr. Devoe’s reptilian
rhapsody is here taken as read,
as they say at the council meet-
ings. The rest of his book has
been enjoyed with fascinated
interest. For, however Mr.
Devoe may rate as a naturalist,
he certainly has all the marks
of having been well and truly
bug-bitten, and he certainly has
found an admirable recipe for
making a book. He simply sits
down, fires questions at himself
about birds, beasts, etc., and
answers back. Questions like
these;
Does a cat, perched on your
chest while you’re asleep, “suck
your breath”? Are wildcats
likely to drop on you out of a
tree?
The Bulletin’s financial
authorities will tell you that wild-
cats are likely to drop on you
out of anywhere, especially out
of a prospectus-bush, so the
answer to that one, at least, could
be Yes. But, says Mr. Deyoe, the
right answer to both those ques-
tions is just No. This should, on
the one hand, make Pitt-street
oil- and uranium-lovers feel even
less frightened in the jungle, and,
on the other hand, allow cat-
mattresses to sleep better.
Or consider another couple of
these Devoetional queries; Do
bears and wolves commonly go
out of their way to attack
people? Do bears kill by means
of a “bear hug”?
The answer is No, twice.
Bears, it seems, kill with a fore-
paw wallop, and with teeth and
claws ; and, says Mr. Devoe, they
won’t chase you up a tree, which
is decent of them, and more than
can be said for some people,
including sharebrokers. Or take
another little lot from Mr.
Devoe, on a different tack;
Do ducklings instinctively take
to water? Are young otters
instinctive swimmers? Do chicks
instinctively peck grains of com?
Do cats instinctively kill mice?
Do birds have an instinct not to
eat nasty-tasting caterpillars?
Do young mammals have an
instinct to suck at their mothers’
breasts?
Mr. Devoe says the answer to
these is No, too. They do, or
they don’t do, those things, but
only after being taught, or learn-
ing the hard way. Kittens, it
seems, would be real pally with
mice only Mum teaches them
different. What tif there’s no
Mum around to teach them?
Maybe they’d just go on being
pally with mice. Mr. Devoe
doesn’t say, and present writer,,
being no expert naturalist,
doesn’t know. All he can say is
he’d still prefer not to be a
mouse, Mura or no Mum.
About the otters, Mr. Devoe
says that Mum Otter “endlessly
coaxes and wheedles” her young
otters into taking to the water.
As often as not, he says, she
ends by tricking them into it:
she takes them out for a swim
on her back, and then ducks from
under —an idea, perhaps, for
temperance workers.
Also, about bears —there
doesn’t seem to be anything he’s
fonder of talking to himself
about than bears —Mr. Devoe
says that, it being necessary
for young bears to keep quiet
(old Father Bear possibly want-
ing to snooze off). Mother Bear
first “tells” the cubs by “instinc-
tive growling,” and then, if they
don’t take the hint, she “cuffs
and spanks them vigorously,”
As for the sucking business in
that salvo of questions, there is,
it seems, no such thing as a born
sucker (again contrary to The
Bulletin’s financial authorities).
.Then what about the tiny un-
developed mites that are baby
kangaroos? Well, explains Mr.
Devoe, Mum ’Roo’s milk
apparatus is a pump. She pumps
the little bloke full.
In the same instinct depart-
ment : Is the song of a bird an
instinctive thing? “Not in any-
thing like its full form, no,” says
Mr. Devoe. Maggie, and the rest
of the Moncrieff family, it seems,
have to learn from the heard
songs of others. What are spon-
taneous are the call-notes —-the
'Words of warning and the like.
“The distinctive song, like, so
much else in animal life that may
at first look to us automatic
and pre-formed, is an ability the
bird acquires in living
experience.”
+ +
Well, even an inexpert un-
naturalist can agree that that
seems likely enough: in fact, it
doesn’t seem to be only a matter
of acquiring. At any rate, Mum
Otter teaching her little coves to
swim or Mother Bear spanking
her cubs quiet would seem to
have nothing on Father and
Mother Kookaburra teaching a
hatching of their young-'uns how
to give laughter lip.
Having nothing better to do
one Sunday morning than play
tennis through the trees in. St.
Leonard’s Park, North Sydney,
with Miss Judy O’Grady (she’s
a daughter of Kipling, is snow-
white when she hasn’t been roll-
ing in the coal, and is what the
children genteelly call a girl
bulldog), the present writer put
the watch on one Kookaburra
lesson in the hearty art. It was
nothing less than that, and it
lasted, continuously, without a
break, for just on exactly six
minutes. There were four of them
in the trimmed, bushy fig-tree—
what looked like Mum Kooka
and her two young hopefuls
perched in a group, throwing
their heads back and giving the
welkin whacko, and by himself
on another branch a couple of
yards away Pop Goossens Kooka
gurgling and chuckling a control-
ling accompaniment, and
weighing-in with a shouted
“Ho!” or, a double one, “Ho,
ho!” whenever the combined
uproar of the others showed
signs of flagging. Whereupon
away they’d go it at their top
again, while Pop subsided to his
gurgled chuckling.
If that wasn’t a definite lesson
in laughter it certainly had all
the sound of one —of planned,
deliberate instruction. And
before this timer of it had passed
out of earshot they were all at
it flat-out again.
There might be an idea in this,
too. Perhaps if school
curriculums went in for some-
thing of the sort, instead of, say,
nuclear physics . . ,
Back to Mr. Devoe: Do fall-
ing cats always land on their
feet? No. Are elephants
terrified of mice? No, says Mr.
Devoe, not in the least. It
seems that Mr. Devoe gets asked
thousands of these questions and
has to know the answers. So
when Mr. Devoe says that a
young sulphur-bottom (it’s not a
salamander, but a kind of whale)
weighs around 15,0001 b. at birth,
present inexpert unnaturalist is
very happy to take his word for
it. Similarly when Mr. Devoe
declares that for every 100 female
greyhounds born, the males
number 110, and that what a
man can hear at 175yds. by
straining his unaccustomed ear,
a dog can hear easily at a dis-
tance of a full mile. The same
blanket acceptance is hereby
most cheerfully extended to cover
all the rest of this menagerie of
Devoeted lore, including;
Most birds eat at least half
their own weight in food every
day. Dr, Arthur A. Allen, of
Cornell University, recdrded
that, between sunrise and sunset
in one day, a carefully observed
mother wren fed her fledglings
1217 times.
A bird’s breathing apparatus
isn’t like ours. The bird’s
indrawn breath fills not only its
lungs, but passes on through
myriads of tiny tubes into air-
sacs that fill every space of its
body that isn’t otherwise
occupied, and the air-sacs
connect with many of the bird’s
bones, which aren’t filled with
marrow, but are hollow. Hence,
“When a bird breathes it aerates
its whole system, so that the
bright fire of its intensive life is
maintained as by a bellows.”
Freshwater fish don’t drink
(or some of them don’t: Mr.
Devoe doesn’t make it clear
whether this applies only to
Americans, or whether, say,
Murray-cod, too, are total
abstainers; not that perhaps it
matters very much, considering
the stuff they would drink if they
did). (■ On the other hand, “fish
of the salty sea” are habituals:
“They drink prodigious
quantities of salt-water.” (How
on earth they find out things of
this sort Mr. Devoe doesn’t say ;
but the fact that there would
seem to be a lot more salt-
water fish than freshwater fish
might have a useful moral in it.)
Still on fish: The bag under a
pelican’s beak can hold up to
251 b. of them. That’s a lot of
fish at current Sydney prices.
Monkeys don’t, as a rule, have
fleas. When you see them fleaing
one another what they’re pop-
ping into their mouths with
rapturous relish is salt. They’re
not the only salt-addicts: Mr.
Devoe says a porcupine will
avidly eat an axe-handle for the
salt left on it by sweaty hands'.
Also on porcupines: If anyone
tells you they can’t cast their
quills, don’t risk it. When he’s
properly annoyed Porcu, like
anybody else, lashes his tail
savagely, and, says Mr. Devoe,
you can get a quill through your
hat 10yds. away.
Elephants don’t live for
centuries: most of them are get-
ting on a bit when they hit fifty
or sixty: but a tortoise weighing
round about 6001 b. might be up
to 300 years old. A queen bee
lives 15 to 20 years, at least.
These, it seems, are all things
that Mr. Devoe or somebody else
has found out, suggesting that
there must be a deuce of a lot of
people in the world with a
dickens of a lot of spare-time on
their hands. Anyway, as far as
present writer goes, the blanket
acceptance stands, even wfien
Mr. Devoe tells him the one
about the snail that was put on
display on a card in a museum,
and remained there until one day
it got up and went for a stroll,
after having sat motionless on its
card, with nothing to eat, for
three years.
After a while you sort of get
into the swing of this Devoeted
lore, and it doesn’t rock you at
all to learn that, for instance, a
bear, which might itself tip the
beam at anything up to 5001 b.„
gives birth to a cub smaller than
a newborn baby porcupine. Mr.
Devoe, as already noted, seems
particularly interested in bears,
which could, perhaps, be because
he’s an American ; otherwise his
book is entirely free of politics.
He is also, as an American,
specially interested in opossums,
which he sometimes spells
“possums,” but it’s still fhe
American citizens he’s talking
about.
, Unlike our own little coves,
without the “o” (though when
present writer wanted to look up
something about these close rela-
tions of his at Sydney’s Mitchell
Library a few years back they
had them there, of all places,
indexed as “Opossums”)—unlike
these lovable little coves, the
American “o” chaps, by most
accounts, appear to be baddies.
Not, it should be said, by Mr.
Devoe’s account: in his
naturalist world —Eden before
Eve and all that —there don’t
seem to be any baddies at all. ..
not even the bears. And in it his
opossums (this may be
allegorical) beat the bears, and
most other comers, in one respect
at least, though this is only the
modest matter of smallness of
offspring: “There often are as
many as fifteen or eighteen
[opossums] in a litter, and each
baby is littler than a bee. The
whole brood can nestle in a
tablespoon.”
Or take, now, that question
put at the top of these notes:
“Can mice, would you think,
sing?” Yes, says Mr. Devoe..
Apparently newspapers over
there run facetious stories from
time to time about some house-
wife or other insisting she has
heard a mouse doing a Melba, or
it could be a Caruso. There’s no
call for facetiousness, says Mr.
Devoe: “No animaliser can go
attentively exploring the night
woods and fields for many years
without finding out that mice do
have singing ability.” What they
manage in the way of song,
according to Mr. Devoe, is “a
high, wiry, warbling little trill,
somewhat canarylike.”
Well now, as to this— and
whatever The / Bulletin's
“Aboriginalities” fraternity may
be likely to make of it—present
writer can testify to having some-
times heard exactly that sort of
“singing” around a very
naturalistic sort of place he once
lived in, no further out in the
native wilds than the already
mentioned North Sydney, a little
way down Walker-street from the
park. At the time he wondered
what tiny kind of night-bird
there could be which would sing
like that . . . Mice? , . . Or
does a pained ear hear some
uncouth son of an Aboliar echo
“Rats /”?
+ +
Anyway, still among the mice:
“Is it true that mice use their
tails to get food out of inacces-
sible places, such as out of
bottles?” People like present
writer, whom Mr. Devoe desig-
nates “unschooled animalisers,”
have always been ready to
swallow that particular whopper
—and, what’s more, they’ve been
right! “It is no myth. It is true,”
says Mr. Devoe. A mouse, he
says, will perch on the rim of a
jug with something ‘sweet in it,
let down its tail like a man
lowering a bucket into a well,
and haul up the sweet stuff
tailful by tailful.
One of the places where Mr.
Devoe says he does his
“animalising” is “in the old
earth-floored farm-cellar under
the house,” and: “A year or
two ago a deer mouse
devoted an evening, while I
watched him, to half-emptying
a small honey-crock, stored on a
shelf there, by this adroit
technique.”
Or, if you don’t like to believe
that one, Mr. Devoe will tell you
another. Do birds every fly
backwards? Yes. Some of the
humming-birds—measuring only
a couple of inches, with wing
only an inch wide —fly back-
wards out of flowers in which
they’ve been having a swig of
the juice. They don’t, it seems,
merely come out backwards;
any old bird can do that much.
No ; they fly backwards out of
the flower in a straight reverse
((Continued on page 34)


Now! ONE Brushing with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM
REMOVES ENZYMES
that cause Bad Breath
and Tooth Decay!
Only the Colgate way
does all three!
CLEANS YOUR BREATH
while it
CLEANS YOUR TEETH
and STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
m
H® I
NOW COLGATE’S ACTS INSTANTLY
ON DECAY PRODUCING ENZYMES!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream instantly
reproves enzyme-producing Bacteria, and it is enzymes that
produce tooth decay acids! But—if you really want to
prevent decay, be sure to follow the Colgate way. Scien-
tific tests showed that the Colgate way of brushing the
teeth right after eating stopped more decay for more
people than ever before reported in all dentifrice history!
ONE BRUSHING WITH COLGATE’S
STOPS BAD BREATH INSTANTLY!
Your very first brushing
with Colgate’s each morn-
ing removes up to 85% of
the bacteria that cause bad
breath! Yes, scientific tests
prove that Colgate Dental
Cream stops bad breath
instantly in 7 out of 10
cases that originate in the
mouth!
BRUSHING TEETH AFTER EATING
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year
period showed a startling
reduction in tooth decay for
those who brushed their
teeth with Colgate’s right
after eating! In fact, X-rays
showed no new cavities
whatever for almost 2 out
of 3 people.
REAM
a
a
TBBONOeMTAt
Si
BUY THE BIG
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE
AND SAVE 1/sd.
Gives You a Cleaner, Fresher
Mouth All Day!
AMERICA’S LARGEST—AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST—
TRE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
New hope for high
blood pressure
For hundreds of years, Orien-
tals have used this drug as a
remedy for fever and snake
bites. Today it is helping doc-
tors fight hypertension, a factor
in 1 out of 5 deaths.
Paul de Kruif tells in Sep-
tember Reader’s Digest how an
ancient drug Rauwolfia
offers hope of controlling high
blood pressure.
Also in September Reader’s
Digest are many other stimulat-
ing articles of lasting interest,
plus a 14-page book condensa-
tion of “The Dam,” exciting
account of man’s heroism. Also
“Don’t teach your youngster
to drive,” "Do you breathe
properly?” and “Bell Lab’s
hired dreamers.” September
Reader’s Digest on sale now —
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKRERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NKO-BAKEESB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today jor FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3W), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CYPRUS
Cyprus, to which Britain’s
Middle East Land and Air Force
Headquarters are to be trans-
ferred from Suez, is the third-
largest island in the Mediter-
ranean (3572 square miles) and,
of old, was likened in shape to
an outspread deer-skin of which
the tail pointed east into Asia.
It nestles in the north-east
corner of the Mediterranean. 40
miles from the Turkish coast
and 60 miles from the Syrian. It
was conquered as far back as
1500 b.c. by Thothmes 111 of
Egypt; important Greek and
Phoenician colonies were estab-
lished'there, and it formed part
of the Persian and Roman
Empires, Antony presented it to
Cleopatra; it was one of the
“kingdoms and islands” which
were
As plates dropt from his pocket.
It could also claim to be the
first country governed by a
Christian ruler —“in a.d. 46 Paul
and Barnabas (a Jew of Cyprus),
accompanied by John Mark,
landed at Salamis and crossed the
island to Paphos, where they
converted the Roman proconsul.”
Its government changed hands
frequently—Britain had it briefly
and for the first time when
Richard the Liopheart took it
from the local tyrant after land-
ing there and marrying his bride-
elect, Berengaria of Navarre,
who had been driven to the
island by a stqrm—until 1571,
when the Turks took it from
the Venetians and kept it until
it was ceded to Britain in 1878.
Britain annexed it in 1914 on the
outbreak of hostilities with
Turkey.
Currently it’s a not-untroubled
island of about half a million
people, four-fifths of them of the
Orthodox Greek Church, the
other fifth Moslems. Its exports
range from oranges, potatoes and
barley, iron pyrites and copper
concentrates (the first known
mining for copper was in
Cyprus) down to artificial teeth,
buttons and mules —a pack trans-
port (mule) company from
Cyprus arrived in France in 1940,
being the first unit of British
colonial troops to reach that
theatre of war.
The unrest on Cyprus stems
from the demand for “enosis” —
described by London “News
Chronicle” correspondent James
Cameron as the “strange, wholly
emotional yearning” for unifica-
tion with Greece. It is not a new
thing, nor is it very old. As a
“Manchester Guardian” corres-
pondent comments:
“Not until Britain and Russia
in the early 19th century helped
Greece to free herself from the
Turks did the idea take root that
Cyprus might be freed from
Turkish rule. Those who con-
ceived this idea soon wanted
Cyprus united to the new
kingdom of Greece.
“Cyprus has never belonged
to Greece. But the Greeks were
the first Christian people to rise
successfully against the Turks
and achieve complete political
independence. Greece was the
only neighboring Christian State.
And close ecclesiastical ties with
her have, in the last 100 years,
supplied the main driving force
behind the demand for political
union.
“This demand, ruthlessly sup-
pressed by the Turks when it
London “Daily Mail”
ALWAYS SOMETHING
“Needn’t look so ’appy, Nobby — you’ve got to ’ump this little
lot over to Cyprus.”
first appeared among the higher
dergy in 1830, has since that
time grown steadily. Today it
is the only important political
purpose upon which all non-
Moslem political parties in
Cyprus are united.
“The movement for enosis has,
until the last 10. years, been
almost entirely the creation of
the Orthodox episcopate. The
movement, even at* its most
popular, has never been difficult
to control. It has issued in very
little violence. It may be violent,
in the future. It has not been
violent in the past. Since the
British arrived a dozen people
have been killed in enosis riots.
There were fewer casualties dur-
ing the 1931 enosis disturbances,
when Government House was
burnt down, than during com-
munal clashes between Turks
and Christians in 1911.”
That Government House,
incidentally, was a wooden pre-
fab. job intended for Ceylon, but
sidetracked to Cyprus in 1878
and put together by a local con-
tractor named Mr. ,Z.
Williamson, later and better
known to the world as Sir Basil
Zaharoff.
Cyprus, as indicated, presents
the anomaly of a British colony
that doesn’t want self-govern-
ment. As London “Daily
Telegraph” correspondent
Martin Moore points out, “this
paradoxical state of affairs is
perpetuated by the refusal of the
leaders of the Greek-speaking
majority to accept a Constitu-
tion which would enable the
people to participate in govern-
ment.
“It is not that they are critical
of the terms of the Constitution
which was offered six years ago,
and which is still open. They
reject a Constitution on any
terms. They do not want any
degree of self-government, now
or in the future. They demand,
in the words of the enosis slogan,
‘Union with Greece and nothing
but union.’
“Enosis is demanded, with
patent insincerity, also by the
Cyprus Communists. Nothing
could be further from their real
desire than to exchange British
tolerance for a Greek Govern-
ment, which would forthwith
liquidate their organisation ; but
since enosis is a slogan too
popular for the Communists to
risk opposing, their tactics are
to exploit its popularity.
“The Turkish - speaking
minority—about one-fifth ofcthe
population —are against union
with Greece, To’ counter the
influence which enosis brought
to bear in Athens, they recently
sent a delegation to their own
ethnic Motherland and received
a cautious official assurance that
Turkey favors the maintenance
of the present status of Cyprus,
“Besides the Turkish minority
there are Greek - speaking
Cypriots who, without denying
their cultural affinities, do not
want political union with Greece.
They believe that Cyprus has a
brighter future as a unit in the
Commonwealth than as a Greek
province.”
Meanwhile, as London “Daily
Mail” correspondent Alan
Humphreys comments, “In this
disturbed atmosphere the work
goes on that is to change Cyprus
from a delightful but sleepy
tourist resort into Britain’s major
headquarters in the Middle East,
“Cyprus is at present enjoying
quite a boom. Its trade last
year was seven times that of
1938. In the next seven years
something like £20,000,000 of
the British taxpayers’ money will
be spent in the island on the
new bases. •
“Many Greek Cypriots who
outwardly favor enosis are fully
aware of the benefits the island
derives from British rule and
want thqm to continue. Once a
Constitution conferring con-
siderable power on the local
people were introduced —which
would also extinguish the hope
of enosis—all the secretly anti-
enosis Greeks could confidently
emerge.
“In those circumstances, it is
felt, the Constitution would
satisfy a large number of Greeks,
the Turks would be relieved of
anxiety, and Britain’s Middle
East Headquarters would enjoy
a security it has long ceased to
know in Egypt.”
United Nations Report
Typical overseas press
comment on the .ninth annual
report of the United Nations,
submitted to the Assembly by
Secretary-General Dag Ham-
marskjold;
* • *
London “Daily Telegraph":
“The Secretary-General draws
attention to the weakness .which
arises from continued failure to
realise universality of member-
ship. Universal membership
without fundamental harmony
of purpose would stultify rather
than strengthen the United
Nations, and Mr. Hammarskjold
recognises that the ‘log-jam’ (of
which Communist China is now
the key) cannot be broken all at
once; but he gives a disturbing
reminder that nearly half the
nations of Europe are still absent
from the council tables.
“The Secretary-General also
refers —perhaps with a hint of
professional jealousy—to the
tendency of member-Govern-
ments to use ‘tools’ other than
the United Nations. He sees a
danger that its authority may
be reduced by recourse to con-
ferences and arrangements out-
side the organisation which,
though in harmony with its
purpose, bypass its machinery.
A clear justification for such pro-
cedure arises from the limited
membership of the United
Nations; it is only outside it
that members can deal with non-
members.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune":
“The U.N. can take hope, and a
measure of pride, in the fact that
for the first time in 20 years the
world is without warfare; that
whatever the tensions and threats
that exist, the soldiers of one
nation are no longer firing upon
those of another nation. This
has not been exclusively an
accomplishment of the United
Nations, but much of it has been
brought about through the world
organisation, if not by it.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
writer Roscoe Drummond: On
its record of hard accomplish-
ment the U.N. has been much
more than a place to expose
differences and let off steam;
“It was through the United
Nations that the Soviet Union
was forced to withdraw its troops
from Iran in 1947, It was the
United Nations Balkan Commis-
sion which centred the responsi-
bility upon Moscow and its
satellites for violations of the
Greek frontier. It was a U.N.
commission which, on the spot in
Korea, promptly equipped the
Security Council with informa-
tion which permitted the verdict
of aggression against the North
Korean Communists. The U.N.
is still negotiating the disputes
between India and Pakistan and
between Israel and Jordan.
“Obviously the U.N. could be
strengthened, but within the
present Charter there is plenty
of opportunity to use it more
fully and more effectively.”
• • •
London “Economist” : “The
great problems of Kashmir,
Palestine and Korea are still on
the [U.N.] books unsolved. The
business in Guatemala is closed,
but no one is very Mppy about
the way in which it was wound-
up. Efforts to use the U.N. to
promote disarmament have been
futile, and behind every session
lurks the problem of seating
Communist China. Norte the
less there has been visible
progress towards making war
less likely, but it has taken place
outside the actual framework of
the U.N.
“Today, for the first time since
the League of Nations showed
itself impotent to defend
Ethiopia, the world is more or
less at peace. But both ip Korea
and Indo-China an armistice be-
tween Great Powers has been
achieved by direct contact be-
tween Governments and with the
active participation of the one


m
m o
h'
The world's largest aircraft
1931 pattern
7 o’clock on a June evening, 1931. There
is a stir in the crowd waiting at Croydon
Airport, London. The Press photographers
get their cameras ready. The world’s largest
aircraft, the fabulous Junkers G3B, is coming
in to land.
The enormous machine touches down as
gently as a swallow landing in its nest. It
dwarfs other aircraft on the field: its single
wing covers an area of 3,120 sq. ft. and spans
148 ft.; the whole machine weighs 15 tons.
For the waiting crowd at Croydon in
1931, the Junkers G3B was the shape of
things to come. Its clean single wing, unen-
cumbered by a latticework of struts, was
indeed an important step towards the sleek,
supersonic aircraft of today.
BP aviation spirit fuelled the Junkers G3B not
only at Croydon, but in all its flights between the
capitals of Europe, Wherever it went, BP spirit
was ready, providing the perfect fuel for the
world’s largest aircraft.
Sihce then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready at
all times to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
\ AVIATION"jIiT SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd
4/54
World Power that has not been
represented in the U.N.
“The vital diplomatic
encounters have taken place not
by the East River in New York
but in Berlin, at Geneva and in
Delhi. The problems of the
balance of power in Europe and
Asia are being approached
through the E.D.C. and Seato,
not through the commissions of
the U.N.”
* * * V
The same: “Who looks to the
U.N. at present for a solution to
the German problem or to
preserve South - East Asian
security? And who believes that
the U.N. will find a formula to
control nuclear weapons? As
Mr. Hammarskjold admits, a
glance at his balance-sheet is ‘a
reminder of the wide gap
between purpose and achieve-
ment.’
“This gap is less obvious in
the field of economic, social and
technical agencies. Here admir-
able work is being done. But
here alsb there has been a
diffusion of effort and means
over far too many projects. If
more is to be accomplished along
these lines, Mr. Hammarskjold
must be given the power to con-
centrate his staff and resources.
Despite his valiant efforts, an
enormous mass of unread and
unreadable material pours daily
from the U.N. presses, and there
exist commissions and projects
which seem to come straight out
of the Academy of the
Laputans.”
The same: “Perhaps the
greatest obstacle the U.N. faces
•is the fact that at several key-
points its structure and ideals no
longer coincide with the realities
of power. To take only two
examples:
“An excellent moral and
judicial case can be made for
the continued exclusion of Com-
munist China. But, at the same
time, nothing the U.N. can do
will exlude the 600,000,000
Chinese from an ever more
important and perplexing role in
world affairs.
“The second example is pro-
vided by the intervention in
Korea. No one knows what
would have happened if the
Soviet Union had been present
in the board-room and had used
its veto. The one major political
action carried out by the U.N.
took place in spite of its institu-
tional structure rather than
because of it.
“The idea that the United
Nations should provide a forum
where the moral judgment of the
world can arbitrate between right
and wrong has given place to the
traditional reliance on com-
promises between nations armed
to the teeth. Diplomacy backed
by arms has ousted—or has
almost ousted —debate that seeks
to mobilise opinion. The Parlia-
mentary methods of the U.N.
have been discredited because
language lacks the compelling
arguments which come with
armed strength.”
The same: “One thing is
clear: if the United Nations is to
increase its effectiveness and take
back something of what it has
lost to secret diplomacy and
regional negotiation, it must be
ready to tackle the most awkward
issues, even if there is a danger
of a powerful member walking
out. A failure of the United
Nations would be a tremendous
impiulse to that isolation of the
United States which Communist
diplomacy is trying so hard to
bring about.
“For although Ambassador
Lodge is now serving the cause
of the U.N., the spirit of his
ancestor. Senator Lodge, still
walks abroad saying that this is
merely another League of
Nations.”
600,000,000 Chinese
Peking’s confirmation of the
latest Chinese census sets the
official population of China at
601,912,371, and that, as New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ments, “is an awesome number
of people”:
“One cannot help wondering
how many of these millions are
living today much differently
than they did under the Nation-
alist regime, or, for that matter,
under most of the previous
governmental systems in China’s
long history.
“Communism spreads virul-
ently, but few diseases infect
seriously 600,000,000 people.
The Communist rulers of China
seem aware that their hold on
the people may be less secure
than they would like, for they
indicated that the census, the first
comprehensive head-count in
China’s history, would provide
‘a reliable basis for the planned
construction of the State.’
“There is something ominous
about the phrase, as though some
monolith were going to be raised
upon the docile backs of the
600,000,000. Perhaps the Reds
will discover that, the Chinese,
strong in numbers and traditions
alike, will have the strength and
the patience to outlast Com-
munism itself.”
Balkan Alliance
Approving press comment on
the Balkan Alliance, signed at
Bled, Yugoslavia, by the Foreign
Ministers of Turkey, Greece and
Yugoslavia:
♦ ♦ ♦
"Yorkshire Post” : “A bastion
has been set up that should deter
aggression. To their treaty of
friendship and co-operation,
signed in Ankara on February
28 last year, Turkey, Greece and
Yugoslavia have now added a
firm military alliance. Under
this new agreement any attack
upon one of these Balkan
countries will be regarded as an
attack on all three.
“The alliance has no aggres-
sive intention. The present pact
pledges the contracting parties
to settle all international disputes
by peaceful means and to abstain
from resorting to ths threat or
use of force in any way which
would be incompatible with the
aims of the United Nations.
What is more, it allows for the
possibility of other countries
joining the alliance.”
♦ * W
London "Economist”: “A
workmanlike affair. It contrives
to link Greece and Turkey with
Yugoslavia in a firm military
alliance that adequately plugs
the gap in the defences of South-
East Europe without making
either the Yugoslavs or the Nato
partners of Greece and Turkey
feel that they are getting more
involved in each other’s affairs
than they decently ought to be.
“If Yugoslavia is directly
attacked Marshal Tito gets
automatic aid from his
neighbors; in return, he
promises them aid if they suffer
a similar fate. But the chief
deterrent to any aggression
against Greece and Turkey
remains their membership of
Nato, and Marshal Tito, in effect,
profits from this Nato shield
covering his two allies—without,
however, accepting any obliga-
tions to Nato in return. In the
Treaty of Bled he is specifically
committed only to consultation
with his Greek and Turkish allies
should there be aggression else-
where in the Nato area. This
helps to protect him against
charges, either by his own Com-
munists or by the Cominformists,
that he has gone over to the
Americans.” f
* # *
Edinburgh "Scotsman”: “Be-
fore 1939 efforts to establish
collective security in the Balkans
failed, and there was no com-
bined resistance to the Nazi
invaders. The Balkan allies have
learned from that experience.”
* * ♦
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The final stride remains to be
taken when settlement of the
Trieste dispute heals the breach
between Italy and Yugoslavia.
This, there is .now firm reason
to hope, will not be long
delayed.”
* * ♦
"New York Times”: “The
alliance links Yugoslavia not
only to* Greece,and Turkey but
also, indirectly, to the North
Atlantic alliance. Turkey, the
key to the defence of the Middle
East, is already joined in a
mutual - defence pact with
Pakistan. Pakistan, in turn, has
indicated readiness to enter a
South-East Asian defence pact.
Turkey and Pakistan may thus
provide a link between the North
Atlantic and Balkan alliances,
and the proposed South-East
Asian system that would join
East and West in common
defence.”
Indo-China Reckoning
Conquest by the Communists
in Indo-China, as now sealed by
a truce, is, in a “U.S. News and
World Report” reckoning, going
to mean these things:
“Immediate gains for the Com-
munists are about 12,000,000
people, 61,000 square miles of
territory and important resources
of rice, coal, iron and major
ports.
“Gains in sight within the next
two years include another
11,000,000 people, 66,300 addi-
tional square miles of territory,
and still more resources —rice,
rubber, tin, airfields and seaports.
Non - Cominunists, as U.S.
officials see it, have only a fight-
ing chance to hold even this
remnant of the truce.
“Western Powers in the future
are likely to retain only pre-
carious footholds on the rim of
the Asiatic mainland. The
French may be voted out of
Indo-China completely in two
years, if they do not decide to
get out before that. The U.S.
still has troops to guard a cease-
fire line against Communists in
the Korean peninsula. Britain
still is keeping troops in the
Malayan peninsula.
“The non-Communist white-
man, in a word, seems to be
through in Asia. It’s up to non-
Communist Asians now.
“Loss to the U.S. and its allies
of the West is enormous. France
gave up the main battleground
of a war that had lasted nearly
eight years. In this war,
casualties on, the non-Communist
side exceeded 250,000. Losses
of the French expeditionary force
alone totalled 92,000 dead or
missing and 114,000 wounded.
Of the dead, 19,000 were French-
men.
“Cash cost of the Indo-Chinese
war to the anti-Communist side
adds up to about $B2OO million.
“France put up about $4BOO
million of this total and the Indo-
Chinese native Governments paid
$384 million.
“The U.S. paid out nearly
$3OOO million in military arms
and equipment, economic aid, or
cash support for the French and
native war-effort.
“Prestige went into the war,
too. For France, for the U.S.,
for the whole non-Communist
world the amount of ‘face’
invested and lost in the Indo-
Chinese, war was a major item
in Asia, where ‘face’ is all-
important.
“From 1945 to the present.
Communists, step by step, have
taken over islands belonging to
Japan, the whole mainland of
China, the northern half of
Korea and, now, the northern
part of Indo-China.”
Dragnet Digest
Europe or the Pacific ? —“One
of the main results of two world
wars,” comments Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” “is that Europe and
the Great Powers of Europe have
lost their dominant place in
world history. The leading
Powers today are the United
States and Russia, which is only
partially European, and the,
future theatre of the main events
may be in the Pacific rather than
in the European area. Seato
may be more significant than
Nato, It is doubtful if, even
today, British politicians fully
understand the point of view of
Australia and New Zealand,
which are faced with a resurgent
Japan and a Communist China.”
Preventive War. —Approving
of President Eisenhower’s con-
demnation of any such ideas,
“Yorkshire Post” opines that “in
the day of the hydrogen-bomb
any preventive war would be an
appalling evil; the one thing
certain about it is that it would
mean the death of an incalcu-
lable number of innocent
persons. Such a war directed
against Russia would also be the
most reckless of gambles. It
would fail if it did not knock out
the victim at the first blow. That
has been tried before. The
secret documents of the Nazis
prove that the invasion of Russia
in 1941 was designed by Hitler
to be a short, sharp and, for the
Germans, painless operation. His
presumption was punished.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Flat-hunting
Any Sydney woman who doubts that
this is a man’s world can try looking for
a flat. I did. In view of the fact that
a much-publicised confidence-man, with-
out a penny to his name and with a bad
reputation, had recently obtained one
with little difficulty I felt fairly con-
fident. I can pay as much rent as most
bachelors; I can provide excellent
references, including one from my present
landlord; I even know an estate-«agent
who had managed some property for the
family and who professed himself their
friend.
I went to the estate-agent first. 'No ;
under twelve-guineas a week he was
sorry, he had nothing. I reminded him
of a block of flats his firm manages in
which I had been told there was to be
a vacancy. Yes, he knew all about that,
but the flats were not being let to single
women. Why? Well, they had a good
permanent cleaner and single men will
employ her, but single women clean their
own flats, and if the cleaner loses her
tips and extra wages she’ll go.
Next I advertised, once giving a box-
number, once, a telephone-number. The
box-number ad. netted three replies, all
from old ladies who had rooms in their
houses and wanted companionship and
help, and even light nursing in one case
—l’d described myself as a “business-
woman.”
The ad. giving a ’phone-number netted
one reply; a grim female voice which
insisted on strict sobriety, then announced
that she could tell from my voice that
I’d be too" upstage for the veranda-room
(share bath with three couples) which
she bad to offer and rang off.
Then I started answering the ads. By
this time I was ready to settle for what
is described as a flatette. A flatette is
something like this: “Comf. double-room
with cook convs, 10 mins, from Stn.”
Yes, in rubber-soled shoes, short skirt,
and unimpeded with parcels and a hat,
it could be done in ten minutes.
The- room is moderately comf. It con-
tains enough furniture and storage to
enable one to keep a week’s clothes out
of suitcases. It has a table and, on this,
an electric-griller and -kettle. These are
the cooking facilities. The sink is in a
kitchen at the back of the house —to be
shared with five adults and the couple
who own the house. They have four
children.
The five adults and four children share
the bathroom and toilet, too. There arc
no locks on any of the doors —tenants
were always losing keys, says the owner,
so they keep the back and front doors
always open. Yes, a lock could be fitted
to the door of your room if you insisted,
but everyone would think it funny—
they’re all lovely people round here. The
rent? Well the couple who had it before
paid six guineas. For a single girl,
£5 10s. . . .
The old lady in the damp, sweating-
walled basement-room offered for £2 10s.
said that she supposed visitors were all
“This is the last time I'm doing this for you , Warburton!”
right—one at a time and if they were
first introduced to her. But only particu-
lar friends, dear —no men unless you’re
engaged to one. She seemed astonished
to learn that one might wish (even if
single) to make a home of one’s flatette, to
use the ancient gas-stove to cook a meal
for a couple of friends* to bring in a
bookcase. She didn’t know about books
. . . they gathered dust. •
• Then there are the people who will only
let to “two friends.” Often the reason is
that the bed in the room is a double one.
Just what these moralists achieve is
dubious in the extreme.
There are the sleezy little estate-agents
who require a hefty deposit and the first
week’s rent in advance. They don’t pre-
tend to have inspected the accommoda-
tion they offer—you may fluke something
there, but you feel that any reputable
person with room to let would prefer
more formality for his or her own pro-
tection.
In mid-Victorian times it was a disad-
vantage not to be married (if female) for
one set of reasons. In Sydney today the
single girls are living in these revolting
rooms, trying to cook decent meals on
the rickety stoves; trying to make and
keep friends' with nowhere to repay hos-
pitality ; trying to pretend that a £5-a-
week makeshift is a home. Really, you
can hardly blame them if, to get away
from it all, they feel tempted to, say,
spend a bit of time looking at etchings.
—Dumb Dora (N.S.W.).
Federalism and Socialism
One of the urgent problems facing the
Liberal and Country parties is that of
protecting what remains of Federalism
in Australia and restoring it to its proper
role.
The problem is not an academic one ;
it is one of practical politics, for as long
as Federalism exists in Australia the
complete Socialist State cannot be created.
The abiding characteristic of the
Federalist system is the division of legis-
lative power among the States making
up the Federation, plus the unity of the
Federation in its dealings with other
nations.
The division of legislative power in
Australia is anathema to “Labor,” be-
cause the party is pledged to implement
Socialism, which involves the complete
centralisation of all legislative power.
The whole theory of Socialism postulates
centralism. For the Socialist State to
function there must be one authority, one
central supreme organ which does the
controlling and directing.
The “Labor” platform reveals plainly
enough the aim to centralise legislative
power ; it seeks to clothe the Common-
wealth Parliament with sovereign powers,
which means taking away the residual
powers of the States. But that isn’t all.
It is still the aim of “Labor” to estab-
lish a Supreme Economic Council, which,
as the late J. H, Scullin said at the all-
Australian Trade Union Congress con-
vened by “Labor’s” Federal executive in
June, 1921, would “really take the place
of our Parliaments of today.”
In 1947, before the State elections in
S.A., the late Mr. Chifley appealed to
S.A. voters to “complete the link.” Five
of the six State Parliaments at the time
were “Labor”-controlled. Fortunately
Mr. Chifley’s entreaty was rejected. Had
“Labor” won in S.A. it would have con-
trolled every legislature in Australia.
“Labor’s” Federal executive could then
have applied pressure upon its various
State executives to instruct State “Labor”
Governments to cede every major power
to the Commonwealth Parliament.
S.A. being now the only Australian
State with a non-“ Labor” Government,
the first task of the Liberal and Country
parties in protecting what remains of
Federalism should be an all-out effort to
remove “Labor” from office in other
State Parliaments.
The restoration of Federalism won’t be
easy. Uniform taxation must go. The
States must again have their luxation
powers, not only to make State Govern-
ments more responsible but for another
commonsense reason.
There is the possibility that a Federal
“Labor” Government could use uniform
taxation to force the States to surrender
powers to the Commonwealth. How
that could be done was explained by Ross
Anderson (senior lecturer in Law at the
University of Queensland and a member
“Quit hibernatin' , Joe. It's spring outside."
of the “Labor” party), writing in Essays
on the Australian Constitution. He
wrote;
Since the referendum procedure offers
little hope of increasing direct Common-
wealth powers, some greater use of Section
51 may perhaps be anticipated. Attempts
to enlarge Commonwealth powers by
reference of matters under this provision
in the past have failed largely because of
equality of all seven parties. In the future,
when the political atmosphere is favorable
to the Commonwealth the States may be
induced by financial pressure to make the
reference required by the Commonwealth.
Of course the restoration "of Federalism
to its proper role will not be accom-
plished simply by the abolition of uni-
form taxation ; other problems must also
be solved. But neither their number nor
their nature should discourage those who
don’t subscribe to Socialism from
tackling them. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Antarctic Weather-stations
Those weather-stations in the Antarctic
(B. 11/8/’54) serve a good purpose, but
to consider the expedition’s main role as
meteorolqgical is far too sweeping. Since
Australia established its first two sub-
Antarctic bases at Heard and Macquarie
Island the daily forecasts in southern
Australia have been more accurate, but
more information will be needed before
the long-range forecast (two-, three- and
four-month) can be issued and relied
upon.
The Australian National Antarctic Re-
search Expedition has never considered
meteorology the chief reason for its
being south of 45 degrees. Granted it
has devoted many man-hours to the
science, but its eye has always been on
the Antarctic continent. Heard and Mac-
quarie were stepping-off places for crews
to be trained, gear to be tested and new
techniques to be developed for Australia’s
first permanent base on the Antarctic
continent, established early this year.
This scheme worked well, and the team
now manning Mawson base, Antarctica,
is doing a first-rate job, thanks to at
least one tour of duty at the two sub-
Antarctic islands. -
Although the meteorological station at
Mawson was the first branch of the expe-
dition to function, there is already plan-
ning to examine the possible mineral
wealth of Australia’s vast territory in the
Antarctic continent.
Whereas the regions bordering the
North Pole are only pack-ice, Antarctica
is land covered with ice and snow. It is
land which has already yielded coal, and
parts of it bear a close similarity to areas
of outback S.A., where valuable yields of
uranium and other ores have been dis-
covered.
Next year Australia is abandoning the
base at Heard Island and putting all its
efforts into Mawson with a much' larger
party. Geological surveys are to be
made throughout the year, and the dis-
covery of valuable minerals in the area
could well compensate for the thousands
of pounds already ploughed into the
Antarctic. —J. R. B. (Vic.).
The three American weather-stations
to operate on the Antarctic continent
would have completed “a chain round
Antarctica” if the Australian Govern
ment had not, apparently for Budgetary
reasons, decided that the Heard Island
station would be closed down.
Australia’s claims to any part of
Antarctica are rather slender —the U.S.A.
doesn’t recognise them—so perhaps it is
just as well that we are staking a claim
in person. However, it is strange that in
setting up one station we have to close
down another, particularly in view of the
fact that it has a heartening nearest
neighbor in Kerguelen, where the French
have a naval base and first-class airstrip.
Even stranger is the recollection that
perhaps, after all, we don’t have such a
good claim to Heard as we have for so
long thought. Wasn’t an American master
of a whaling-vessel the first to sight the
speck in the Southern Ocean?
Karrimba (Vic.).
Hotels
“Ceg’s” solution for the outback hotel
problem (B. 11/8/’54) might be obvious
to him, but to others it isn’t so crystal-
clear. If he means the establishment of
community hotels throughout the country
districts, he should look at the problem
more objectively.
In the first place, the title to a hotel
has to be obtained. That isn’t easy.
It’s usually owned by someone who
doesn’t want to part with it, be he ordin-
ary landlord or brewery. The only
answer to that, of course, is to increase
the number of licences. “Ceg” probably
knows all the answers to that one, par-
ticularly if his suburb has had one hotel
for the past 50 years, has trebled its
population, and still doesn’t look like
getting another. Maybe it is “treating the
liquor question like a double-ended death-
adder,” but what would any man on the
Government side of a State Legislative
Assembly do in the face of all those
women and anti-grog teams whose
spectres haunt the lobbies the moment
the question is brought up?
Second, I don’t imagine that many
country towns are very interested in the
idea of setting up in the pub business.
To the inhabitants, including the town-
council members, the pubs only exist for
one purpose. Notwithstanding all sorts
of statements to the contrary, there isn’t
a great deal of civic pride in many coun-
try towns, and, where there is, the powers-
that-be are usually anti-pub, the kind
who push everything else around the
place and forget a few decent amenities
for the traveller, who takes away an im-
pression almost unprintable.
Third, the towns which have the tourist
attractions are generally equipped with
at least one first-class pub (chromium-
plate touch), supported by a couple or
the older, but equally comfortable,
“family” establishments, the three pro-
bably catering for the majority of the
passing trade. The “guest-houses” on the


Delightful Ceilings
Available In a variety of modern
designs, Wunderlich Ceilings are fire-
safe and afford freedom from stain-
ing, flaking and cracking. Use them
in your new home or to cover right
over stained and faulty ceilings in
your present home.
Call at Baptist Street, Redfem,
Showrooms, 'phone MX 2411 or write
Wunderlich Limited for designs and
prices. .
M
c/er/t r?A
ETAL CEILINGS
BEAUTIFUt* PERMANENT • MODERN
ROOT-ZONE
MOISTURE
CONTROL
THE MOST
IMPORTANT
SINGLE FACTOR
IN
AGRICULTURE
■■
• it
SI
J
W ft
Nothing affecting crop yield and quality
is as important as irrigation. Revolu-
tionary improvements in irrigation equip-
ment have been primarily concerned with
attaining more economical delivery on the
surface of the ground and do little to solve the
most vital problem control of underground
moisture in the Root Zone. This is what deter-
mines yield and profits for the grower. Before
this moisture can be controlled it must be measured.
EE
m
IRROMETER
TRADE MARK
MOISTURE INDICATOR
ANSWERS THIS PROBLEM
The Irrometer registers on an easy to read gauge the amount
’ of water actually available at the roots and under field conditions
is accurate to within 3%. It tells exactly what irrigation is
needed, when irrigation can safely be discontinued and assures
maximum benefit with minimum water usage.
FOR ROOT AND TREE CROPS
Distributors for N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
P.O. Box 509 10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney Phone: BU 5095
Branches: Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay; and at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l
GD44
hill or along the beach can
usually accommodate in com-
fort, at lower rates, those who .
can’t, or don’t want to, lodge at
the pubs. —B. K. G. (Vic,).
Foggy Finance
The N. S. Wales transport
authorities have some smart lurks
for helping their department out
of the red. Foggy mornings, for
instance.
I travel to work in Sydney by
feeder-bus and ferry, buying a
combined ticket on the bus which
covers me for the whole trip to
the city. A fog came down over
the harbor the other morning and
the ferries stayed on the roost at
Manly wharf, so the authorities
sprang an emergency bus-service
from Manly to the city by way
of the Spit and other pleasant
places.
Nice of ’em, and a nice ride,
too, but the conductor spoiled
the scenery by refusing to accept
the combined ticket for which
I’d paid Is. 6d. on the feeder-bus
and insisting that I dub in
another Is. 4d.
And that, of course, is exactly
the price of my evening schooner.
—Egami (N.S.W.).
Semi-skilled Workers
Have you a little clerical
ability, can you use the type-
writer and have you a pleasant
telephone-voice? You have?
TheiS you’re engaged at £l4 a
week, plus half-yearly bonus on
results and staff provident-fund
benefits.
Perhaps you have a husband,
so we had better fix him up with
a job, also. Of course, he’s over
21, in which case a leading oil
company will be only too glad to
pay him “£lOOO a year plus.”
He’s unskilled and with no
previous experience. Good, the
company will train him in its
own time. Working conditions
will suit him —they are clean,
quiet and healthy. Of course,
there is a pension-scheme, free
life-insurande, travelling-allow-
ance, sick-leave, etc., and there
will be an increase in pay in 12
months.
But perhaps your man is
university-trained and has a
diploma in electronic-
engineering. That’s rather unfor-
tunate, as we can’t offer him
quite so much. However, his
duties are simple, and will only
include: construction and main-
tenance of electronic equipment
for the detection of nuclear-
radiation —e.g., pulse-amplifiers,
coincidence - circuits, power-
supply, scaling- and associated
circuits.
He naturally has a knowledge
of radar techniques? Excellent
—that will be an advantage in
landing a job at £BlB a year to
start with. Certainly that is only
£9O a year more than you will be
getting as a typist, but perhaps
he has not a pleasant telephone-
voice. When he reaches the top
of his range—£962 a year—he
will still be £3B short of what the
unskilled man starts with, but
that’s his fault for putting in four
years’ study at the university at
a cost of, say, £3OOO. He may
derive some consolation from
the remarks of a judge who,
investigating the conditions under
which seafaring men work, said
he was astounded to find that the
master of a ship received less
than the cook.
As one’s place in the social
scale is determined by money, it
will be appreciated that the
Golden Age of the unskilled has
arrived. Small wonder that the
C.5.1.R.0. complains that there
is a shortage of scientists in
Australia. — Ceg (Vic.).
Reading and TV
“Maros” shouldn’t worry too
much about the future of litera-
ture after TV is with us (B.
18 1 8 / ’54). Achievement and
progress have usually been
attained in the face of heavy
odds. '
Milton, blind, dictated
Paradise Lost to his daughter.
Cervantes planned Don Quixote
in jail on an empty stomach.
Stevenson was a sick man when
he wrote his best adventure-
stories. As for reading, I saw
a man the other morning wading
through Volume IV of Gibbon’s
Decline and Fall with attention
while hanging on to a strap in a
crowded and noisy tram.
If you really want to read or
write, or accomplish anything,
I don’t think the fact of the
lounge-room being in darkness
will deter you. If there are
other rooms in the house, and
that thing has to be read or
written, it will be done.
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Portuguese Timor »
The fuss about Goa should
remind us that the- eastern
portion of Timor, the last frag-
ment remaining to Portugal of
once-extensive colonies in the
Malay Archipelago, is being
claimed by Indonesia.
The Portuguese gained power
in the island during the 16th
century, using it as port-of-call
on the way to the Moluccas.
Lifau, on the west coast, became
the capital. Soon after the Dutch
established themselves at
Koepang, in 1618, the Portuguese
capital was moved to Dilli, where
it has remained.
The “black Portuguese”—
Christians devoted to the
Portuguese cause continued
opposition to the Dutch until
1769, when, by agreement, the
Dutch held the west end of the
island, except the enclave of
Ocussi, and the Portuguese the
east end. Minor modifications to
the agreed border have occurred
since, and former Dutch territory
is now held by Indonesia.
Timor is rugged, with little
fertile land. Flora resembles that,
found round Darwin, including
eucalypts, and there is the same
short wet-season followed by a
prolonged dry. The population
is about half a million —a few
Portuguese whose function is
almost entirely administrative,
some Chinese mainly engaged in
trade, the remainder primitive
natives divided into a large
number of tribes and speaking
many different dialects, avoid-
ing hard work, and showing little
interest in politics.
The Roman Catholic church
exercises a profound influence,
built up over nearly four
centuries, and the Christian
religion gives a sense of unity to
the very diverse elements among
the natives. Portuguese adminis-
trators, answerable to the
Governor at Dilli, ably rule the
eight districts into which the
colony is divided. Ports and
roads are lacking, but there is an
airfield at Dilli suitable for light
aircraft. Exports consisting
mainly of coffee, cocoa and
copra—are negligible,
Portuguese Timor was un-
affected by the Japanese
invasion ; it is a forgotten back-
water which progress has by-
passed. Indonesia, no doubt, is
not pressing its claims too
strongly at pre/sent because the
economic importance of the area
is too small to make it worth
while. Portugal derives no
benefit from its possession.
Probably sentiment and questions
of prestige are the only reasons
for continuing to hold it.—Gui
(Vic.).


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
t If * .
' Vi
.
■■■'■:: :
9al IM Smouaj
SJ.HOVSAI
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaghl Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
By PROFESSOR HARRY MESSEL
■JVrUCLEAR physics isn’t con-
cerned only with bombs, or
atom - powered submarines
(America has already built
them), or with nuclear-powered
electricity-generating stations. It
has application to industry and
agriculture, on various levels.
James Campbell, U.S. Atomic
Energy Commissioner, said the
other day that within 10 years
American industry will be saving
$lOOO million a year (£A446
million) by using atomic energy.
Some interesting work has
been going on in agriculture
overseas. For instance, in
America the radioisotope cobalt
60 has been used to break the
trychinosis cycle in pigs. Try-
chinosis is one of the biggest
troubles in the U.S. pork in-
dustry. It is hoped, now, to
eradicate it. That opens up all
sorts of interesting possibilities
in veterinary science.
The U.S. Department of Agri-
culture has been co-operating
with various State experiment-
stations, using radioisotopes to
determine the amount of ferti-
liser needed, the pattern of appli-
cation and so on, for various
crops under a wide range of soil
and climatic conditions. These
experiments have resulted in
immediate savings for farmers.
Similar work in regard to rice
is being done in Japan. New
Zealand and Canada have long-
range research programmes on
fertilisers and soil-improvement.
New Zealanders are doing a
great deal of research with radio-
isotopes with a view to over-
coming phosphate deficiencies in
the soil.
In Denmark radioisotopes
have been used to find the
amount of mercury left on plants
sprayed with certain fungicides:
a fair amount of mercury has
been deposited, incidentally—
about 98 per cent, of the deposit
being in the outer layers of the
skin.
In Australia radioisotopes are
being used in research on mistle-
toe. Radioisotopes of cobalt,
iron and zinc are used as
“tracers” to see how the mistle-
toe feeds on the tree and kills.
A study of this, it is hoped,, will
lead to the best method of con-
trol —toxic to the parasite,
harmless to the host. Something
similar is being done on the con-
trol of parasites of chickens and
sheep.
The radioactive isotopes used
in this way are called “tracers”
because their path in living
organisms can be followed by
such instruments as Geiger-
counters, which detect and
record the radiations given off
by the radioisotopes.
Radioisotopes are being used
in the breeding of cereals and
other crops resistant to rust and
other diseases in Canada, the
United States and Denmark,
among other countries. Time
taken to breed disease-resistant
strains of wheat, oats, barley is
cut from 10 to 12 years down
to three or four with the use of
radioisotopes.
Radioisotopes in this sphere
not only give plant-breeders a
short-cut to the development of
disease-resistance in seed; it
also may be the way to get
resistance to certain combina-
tions of diseases which are hard
to control by usual crossing
methods.
Using radioactive nitrogen,
Americans are experimenting
with urea—soluble colorless
crystalline compound as a
supplementary source of nitro-
gen for cattle.
One of the most interesting of
this type of experiment has been
Both these potatoes came from the same 1952 crop and were originally identical in
size. The potato on the right was subjected to atomic radiations from radioactive cobalt.
Taken two years later, the photograph shows the treated potato in good condition, the
untreated potato having sprouted and shrivelled Both potatoes were kept under
conunercial conditions of storage.
in finding the requirements of
trace-quantities of cobalt in the
diet of cattle and sheep. Cattle
and sheep have been found to
develop serious deficiency symp-
toms when they are fed on forage
containing less than four to
seven parts of cobalt per
100,000,000 parts. Simple-
stomached animals such as
horses remain healthy when fed
on the same pasture.
Radioactive cobalt is used to
detect and measure this low con-
centration of cobalt. From re-
sults of this experiment so far,
it appears cobalt is an integral
part of vitamin 812 complex,
which has been shown to be
important in preventing and
curing certain types of anasmia.
This problem is pretty significant
when you consider that livestock
diseases apparently due to cobalt-
deficiency have been reported
from seven States of America
and from six other countries.
Radioactive cobalt is being
used to study the function and
utilisation of vitamin 812 in
sheep and chickens.
Radioisotopes are also being
used in tests on animal diseases
such as leucosis in poultry.
It has been assumed for years
that non-ruminant animals such
as chickens and pigs cannot take
in sulphur in the inorganic form,
but scientists using radioactive
sulphur, have found that chickens
can utilise inorganic sulphur and
incorporate it into the amino-
acid cystine—one of the build-
ing-blocks of proteins.
Americans are also working
on how to use atomic radiations
to preserve food. From these
experiments it looks as though
one day we will be able to pre-
serve food for years without
using refrigeration or the tin-
can. Atomic radiations destroy
the micro-organisms which cause
food to deteriorate.
Sub-surface soil-testing with
radioisotopes and a Geiger-
counter has, of course, an obvi-
ous application for potato-
farmers. By this means a hard-
pan or hard layer of sub-soil can
be detected, its extension traced
and its density calculated! The
potato-farmer can plant wheat
or clover, if necessary, to enable
their longer roots to loosen the
sub-soil.
These are only a few out of
the hat. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture, for instance, has
150 research projects utilising
radioisotopes under way. But
take note that in all the examples
I have mentioned, and in hun-
dreds I haven’t mentioned, radio-
isotopes are used.
What are they? Radioisotopes
—or radioactive isotopes to give
them their full title —are ele-
ments which have been rendered
radioactive and give off atomip
radiation. They are made in a
nuclear-reactor, and nuclear-
reactors cost money. We haven’t
got one, but we hope to have
one. In fact, this month a party
of men, including myself, will
leave on a world tour as a first
step to building a nuclear-reactor
at the School of Physics, Sydney
University.
That the Sydney School of
Physics is able to undertake ex-
tensive nuclear research and en-
visage building a costly nuclear-
reactor is due to the Nuclear
Research Foundation, a body
unique in the British Common-
wealth, which is financing the
school’s research to the extent
of £50,000 a year, and is now
seeking more money to finance
the building of the reactor, and
for other development.
At present most of the radio-
isotopes used in the world come
from the U.K. and the U.S.A.
But Norway, Sweden, Canada,
Holland, Belgium, Switzerland,
Italy, France and India are
building experimental nuclear-
reactors. America and Britain
are engaged now in building
atomic power - stations. The
atomic age is here, whether we
like it or not. The important
thing for Australia is whether
we can keep abreast. Ever
stopped to think what the world
woujd be like without elec-
tricity? Our environment has
been modified by electricity in a
million ways we never pause to
consider. Changes that could
not be contained in our great-
grandfathers’ wildest dreams are
just part of our daily life. That’s
the sort of effect nuclear physics
is beginning to have.
Take land-development. There
are vast tracts of land in this
country with rich natural re-
sources which can’t be developed
because the power isn’t there,
and because the cost of trans-
porting our present sources of
power there would be prohibi-
tive. Nuclear power - stations
using uranium—one ton of it has
a power equivalent to 300,000
tons of coal—could open and
develop these lands. And there.
I think, you have the key to Aus-
tralia’s future. With plentiful
sources of power when and
where it is wanted, Australia
could become another Canada
or America. Without these,
things will remain very much as
they are now, relatively.
Regarding fuel reserves, on a
world scale, the best source of
information is the very thorough
survey made by the Materials
Policy Commission of the United
States. Figures are given in
terms of a large unit, Q. Let’s
look at coal:
U.S.S.R., 10; U.S.A., 7.6;
China, 6 ; Canada, 2; U.K., 1 ;
others, 7 ; total, 33.6 Q.
Oil reserves are smaller by an
order of magnitude and are :
Proved reserves, 1 Q; Esti-
mated unproved reserves, 4.6 ;
total, 5.6.
The world’s present annual
consumption of energy is 0.2 Q,
shared, approximately equally,
by coal and oil. This is a stagger-
ing total. Even at present rate
of consumption, oil reserves will
look sick in 40 years. But it is
estimated that in 50 years’ time
‘our annual requirements will be
nearly 1 Q. And this throws
another light on coal reserves.
Regarding hydroelectricity we
are rapidly reaching a stage
where we are utilising most of
our economic hydroelectric re-
sources. This stage has been
reached in Sweden and Norway,
and even in many parts of
Canada. In Australia sources of
hydroelectric power are rela-
tively small, and concentrated
more-or-less in one corner. How-
ever, it does look as though we
have a lion’s share of uranium
in this country. Other sources
of power are pretty distant.
There is little or no hope that
power from wind, tides and the
like will meet any large fraction
of power requirements. Utilisa-
tion of solar energy is not as
easy as many people think; it’s
not likely to play a major role
for many hundreds of years.
All this seems to be straying
somewhat from agriculture, but,
really, it isn’t—-since power is an
increasingly important factor in
modern farming, and since, any-
way, the man on the land has a
pretty important stake in any
future development. That de-
velopment could be gigantic.
The Nuclear Research Founda-
tion —some members are men of
only moderate means—has done
a great deal to make that
development possible. f
There is one thing, though,
that strikes me rather forcibly
about the Foundation. Among
its members, including leading
industrialists, business men,
municipal and city councils and
other groups, there are only two
men who could be called repre-
sentative of agricultural or graz-
ing interests. They are G. B. S.
Falkiner, of Haddon Rig
(N.S.W.), who has given over
£50,000 to the School of
Physics for a research labora-
tory (which will be named after
his father, F. B. S. Falkiner),
and Alex Armstrong, M.L.C.,
whose property, Winderadeen, is
near Collector (N.S.W.).
This, to me, seems an unbal-
anced representation. Something
seems wrong. Maybe the blame
rests with people like myself
who, in the past, haven’t told
people on the land about the
significance of nuclear physics.
Well, I hope this outline does
something to make good the
omission.
Farm Hints
“Wagga”: To keep water in
cooling-system free of rust add
a little oil now and then.
Enough to turn the water milky.
“C.A.A.”: Tail-strike can be
minimised by tailing sheep at
the correct length, removing the
tail at the point level with the
tip of the vulva. If this opera-
tion is carried out successfully
it will reduce overall fly-strike
by 50 per cent.
“Sundowner”: Drying of
stone-fruit will be hastened if
fruit is dipped in a near-boiling
caustic solution. As a general
rule 11b. caustic-soda to 25 to
50gals. water is best. After a
time the dip will become conta-
minated with dirt from the fruit,
so change it.


le
j)/
*
r g 3
%
w
Htu>)
S 3
\ X
.yf
Elastrator, we merrily sing,
M a\es us happy as birdies in Spring,
Ho wonder we’re joyous
Blowflies don’t annoy us,
And we really don’t notice the ring.
Use the humane way of marking and tailing the
"Elastrator" way. No set-back . . . Insignificant shock
. . . Fly-strike practically eliminated.
Elastrator Instrument .. ~ £4/4/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) 30/*, plus freight
Elastrator Loader .. .. .. £5/5/-, plus freight
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
... For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Here’s something really
new for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
BARNARDS MIXED
MESH WIRENETTING
Made in England, Galvanised
after weaving, of a quality
second to none.
Save money on it and on its
freight from the City.
Save labour erecting a lighter
but as efficient a netting.
In one weave of 42in. you can
• have IJin. mesh for 21in. be-
low 2Un. mesh for 21in. or a
combination of widths of each
to suit your taste.
If your usual Dealer has not
commenced stocking Barnards
Mixed Mesh Netting yet, ask
us for the name and address
of your nearest supplier.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY
G.P.O. Box 3776. Phone M 6459
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
f
HYGEIA OISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
ƒ
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 2 5 years
’DISTRIBUTORS’
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Ooulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.. Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building. King William
St.# Adelaide.
E. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
SF J? Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
VIC,
S.A.;
W.A.;
TAS.:
Black-beetle
THE crux of the black-beetle
problem, which has become
really serious this year in N.S.W.
coastal areas, is this: Economic
control of the pest has been
carried on since the war by
graziers and maize- and cane-
growers using D.D.T. and ben-
zene-hexachloride (8.H.C.), but
unusual conditions last season
led to a build-up of the pest to
plague proportions, and swarm-
ing flights at night became
common.
This meant that normal
methods of control which would
eliminate the normal soil-borne
infestation were not good
enough, as a treated area could
be re-infested overnight by flying
swarms.
The treatment of large areas
of crop to control the pest under
such conditions provided a diffi-
cult problem, but in some loca-
tions modified methods of appli-
cation were successfully used.
At Coff’s Harbor, for ex-
ample, an application of 101 b.
of 10 per cent. B.H.C, dust,
mixed and applied with a light
sand top-dressing to each green
of the Bowling Club, brought the
beetles which were in the green
to the surface and killed them;
but beetle flights resulted in a
fresh infestation nightly from
the pests, which alighted on the
surface of the turf. The B.H.C.
dust continued to kill these,
though rainfall carried the insec-
ticide down below the surface.
Ten days after the B.H.C.
application, during which period
4jin. of rain had fallen, new
arrivals were causing some
damage by burrowing into the
turf until they contacted the
insecticide about half-an-inch
below the surface, which caused
them to withdraw and die. To
prevent this damage, a light
application of 21b. to 31b. of the
B.H.C. dust was applied to the
surface of the green with a knap-
sack duster, so that beetles fly-
ing in contacted the insecticide
as soon as they alighted on the
green. Death ensued before any
damage could be done to the
turf;
Several of the newer insecti-
cides have given very good
results overseas against a wide
range of soil-inhabiting insect
pests, and wide interest is being
shown in N.S.W. and elsewhere
in their ability to give better
control of the beetle.
However, let’s not lose sight of
the wood for the trees. We know
both D.D.T. or B.H.C. will kill
the pests if we can bring them
in contact with it, and both are
very stable in the soil, lasting for
at least a full growing season at
normal rates of application.
Some of the newer insecticides
may well turn out to be highly
successful, but the same prob-
lem —bringing the material in
contact with the pest —exists.
BRIAN FOX.
Maize Trends
"Mays”: “Zea” (B. 14/7/’54)
seems to overlook the part
A H 1 rN SWI u *t.
Y ml f ak (N.S.W.). who has
alread ? pr^“ Ced “ test - plots
over 200 bushels of corn per
acre, and. states that this yield
can now be produced on a com-
mercial scale. •
Don Shand is the first pro-
ducer of commercial hybrid-
maize in Australia. Like the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, his parent inbred strains
were imported from U.S.A., but
by employing an outstanding
plant-breeder he developed many
new arid vigororis hybrids which
surpass the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture strains. Bearing
in mind that all Australian
hybrids are basically of Ameri-
can origin, I contend that we
have not scratched the surface
of the potential in the hybrid-
maize field.
If you take Australian wheats
as.a classical example, you will
find that the original breeders
combed the world for species
and bred them to suit Australian
conditions. The same procedure
must be followed by maize-
breeders. Australia has pro-
duced world-record crops of
sugarcane and rice, and, with
the outstanding soil, climatic and
other conditions prevailing in
Australia, there is no reason
why we cannot produce the
world’s record-crops of maize.,
Further, Shand has pointed out
correct soil-preparation, -ferti-
iisation, efficient irrigation,
disease-control and other techni-
cal means w hereby even our
most outstanding maize-growers
can greatly improve their present
yield 8 H e came into hybrid-
maiZe oroduction durinc the
maize u P rocl uction during me
b y J™ du . c ‘ n 8 “° re s . wee ‘-
corn seed or * bc b S b!in £ rce ®
m one year than the combined
Departments of Agriculture
have produced in their history.
He was thus largely responsible
for establishing the war-time
jx j la i TX&WR to
It might be news to Zea
‘ hat 111,8 breede f’ , be pas ‘
few years, has supplied the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture with crossbred parent-maize
for the production of depart-
mental hybrid-maize.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The sun is still without sunspots on either hemisphere.
The cycle shows a fairly clear month for September till the
last five days, when some good rain should follow a fairly
strong heat-wave—strong, that is to say, for the time of year.
The final rains should continue at jntervals till late in
October, after which the normal Main cycle shows a drier
time: but if the Uranian cycle is still maintained then the
October falls will be improved and there should be good
rains in November and December. This cycle is, however,
uncertain.
Zebus
Apropos “Yeoman’s” com-
ments on Zebus and Zebu-
crosses at Brisbane Show
(B. 25/8/’54), F. H. Finch (Don
Federico in those parts) writes
from Argentina that he’s satis-
fied with them:
During the many years when
this estancia was stocked with
Herefords high rates of mortality
. were the rule rather than the
exception. Our best year we had
3 per cent, of deaths in branded
cattle and 9 per cent, in un-
branded calves. During six
months from September 1, ’53, to
the end of February, ’54, we had
I per cent, of deaths in branded
cattle, and from the beginning of
the calving season in June last
year up to the end of February
we had 1.4 per cent, of deaths.
Surely one cannot give much
better proof of the health and
vitality of Zebus and their hybrids
than that. There is no longer
any argument about it, facts and
figures speak for themselves:
English cattle simply cannot
thrive and prosper in tropical
and sub-tropical climates.
Weight? At the beginning of
March, 52 hybrid steers were sent
into Swifts Frigorifico Rosario
with 259 Hereford steers, nine
months older than the hybrids,
and reared under similar condi-
tions. Results were:
Herefords
22 p.c. over
8801 b.
liveweight
Hybrids
69.3 p.c. over
8801 b.
liveweight
Aerial Topdressing
“Kiwi”: Part of the millions
from wool in the super-boom
year, tied-up in retention-
accounts in the banks here
(N.Z,)—£28.6 million at the
peak, in 1952 —has been put to
good use; some of it on spread-
ing fertiliser from the air, a
scheme which, I see, has caught
on in Australia.
Development in New Zealand
has been interesting. The idea
was scouted officially until ths
late ’forties; first proper trial
was in 1948, more than 20
years after a farmer who was
called a crank first thought of it.
It was just the sort of thing
to appeal to returned pilots after
War II; and a pretty risky game
it was, too, for a while. Tiger
Moths, converted to carry a
small pay-load, and other planes
with only a low reserve of power,
weren’t the type of craft for
skimming over the N.Z. hill-
country. There were dozens of
crashes in a few years, most
of the pilots coming out
alive. In 149 “reportable acci-
dents” there were only seven
deaths, although 106 planes were
more-or-less badly damaged,
and 16 had to be written-off.
But this was far too high an
accident-rate for a fleet that did
not exceed 180 at any time.
Early in the piece it became
clear that if this operation was
to be more than an adventurous
experiment, planes designed for
the job would have to be used.
The Government talked business
with a Yank firm, the Fletcher
Aviation Corp.; the head of the
concern, Wendell S. Fletcher,
was here for a few weeks last
year, and he was impressed by
what he saw. The result was the
Fletcher FU-24, with a wing-
span of 42ft., length 31ft.,
strengthened cockpit for protec-
tion in a crash, a good reserve
of engine-power and a payload
of 12501 b.; £6500 (approx.)
landed in New Zealand.
New Zealand ordered a hun-
dred and will pension-off the
present mixed fleet as soon as
the new craft can be landed,
assembled and brought into ser-
vice, at a rate of about five a
month. Total investment of less
than a million should be one of
the best this country has made,
judging by results so far.
These have been impressive.
After five years of pioneering
with makeshift aircraft, 200,000
tons of super, are being spread
yearly on two million acres. This
is only a beginning. As New
Zealand is mostly hilly, there is
plenty of scope. Sheep-carrying
capacity can be increased re-
markably. An increase in the
sheep-population from the pre-
sent 35 million to, say, 50 million
should be fairly simple if every-
thing works according to plan.
The local fertiliser industry is
geared to an output of about
850,000 tons at present, so ferti-
liser manufacturers will have to
look lively. But that’s another
story.
One of the big advantages is
that N.Z. hill-country is mostly
fertile —it once carried heavy
bush —and has a high rainfall.
Fertiliser has been the missing-
link. The Yanks might be get-
ting more orders for planes after
the first hundred —with, perhaps,
improvements suggested under
test. They’ll be turning out
thousands for other markets and
for crop-dusting in the United
States.


■
mm
V I
MV J:
Mi
- ' -
<• > -
'■
■
*
THRILLS!
and
SUSPENSE!
In each true story of
when the harsh ele-
ments the savage
moods of nature—the
strange, often cynical
twists of fate challenge
the heart—the mind—
the nerve of man—of
woman—to meet and
fighl through a state of
. . . . EMERGENCY.
A
Presented by the
manufacturers of
Dettol on Thursdays at 7 p.m. on:— •
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2CA 2WL 2LF 2PK 2MG 2MW
3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
3te MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOIH^
OSUMJVAjf
& Vttnnu \%*T v
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson ft Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AMD FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London,, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
quite inevitably, Taffy went
down.
Now the crowd really did boil
and explode in sound, a hollow
and drumming shout, a roaring
rhythm that seemed to penetrate
and possess one, like the con-
tinuous roar of the sea. lim’s
face, George, red-bearded Mac’s,
all shouting and grimacing word-
lessly, their voices lost in the
sea.
Out of the corner of my eye
I could see the aboriginal boy
from Queensland, jerking his fist
down again and again, in a
mimic left-hook, his lower lip
caught in white teeth, his dusky
face solemn and intent. And a
Welsh sergeant-major jumping
on his cap.
C* LOWLY Taffy began to raise
himself. One knee first.
Then the rest. Dragging himself
up, his dark face twisted. He
stood up. And Ossie did the
same thing. He stepped back
and waited for Taffy’s head to
clear.
Then, quietly at first, softly,
the Welshmen began to sing
“Land of Our Fathers” as the
first hesitant snowflakes came
drifting down.
The song drowned the sound
of the bell. But Taffy and Ossie
had forgotten the bell. And so
had we, the captive crowd. They
met in a sort of inspired fury, the
beaten brown figure and the
bloody white one, while “Land
of Our Fathers” swelled and
deepened as the strong male choir
of Welshmen took it up, sing-
ing it as they sing it at Cardiff
at the Rugby Union interna-
tionals. A song to intoxicate the
spirit and make Welshmen mad.
They fought behind a shuttling'
white curtain, under a darkening
sky. Bitterly, magnificently, and
without malice. With no science
to speak of, and with sobbing
breath. Blood in their mouths
and sweat in their eyes and the
cold kiss of snow melting on their
hot shoulders, the canvas slippery
under their naked feet.
They slipped and stumbled
and fought on. No rounds, no
referee. There was no need for
them now. This was different.
Older, Springing from the earth
and vivid in the mind as lightning
in the sky. The Welsh sang.
Nae hen wlad fy nhadau wn
anwyl i mi,
Gwlad beirdd a champorion
enwogion o fri
sang the Welsh.
The snow fell, the sky was
dark, and they fought still. Slug-
gishly. With great care one
would aim a blow. He would
miss, perhaps. With contorted
face, and dropping jaw, he would
try again. He would hit. Good.
The other would go down. Then
he would wearily clamber up and
go through the same perform-
ance. His turn. A weird sort of
game. A rite.
Dim lights appeared, and the
changing guard tramped by in
the snow, turning their helmets
to see what the prisoners were
up to, there behind the barbed-
wire. “Achtung!” shouted the
guard-commander.
And, softly now, the Welsh
sang. But they weren’t simply
singing for their champion now
—the thing had gone beyond
that—but for both of them. It
didn’t matter much who won,
now, since they were both prov-
ing so triumphantly the mettle of
their pastures.
Actually it was the Welsh-
man who dropped first. And
Ossie collapsed on top of him.
Before Ted or the padre or the
British major could reach them
the German photographer had
another go at a photograph. It
would have been just about
impossible in that light—George
said —still, from his point of
view, it was worth trying. A
good picture, the two of them
piled up there, blood and battered
flesh and stark limbs. A good
newspaper picture, showing how
barbarous the British are . . ,
We went back to our dis-
tressful barracks as merry as
crickets.
if the demons are coming to take
me, I’ll give them something to
take me for! ”
This statement carried instant
conviction; for it was made in
mid-air as he vaulted the bar
and aimed a wild punch at Mrs.
Prang.
Everybody pressed forward
with a thrill of intensified inter-
est, But Mrs. Prang stepped
nimbly aside, and Reg’s own
impetus carried him to the win-
dow through which he was wont
to pass beers into the lounge.
It was closed. Both fists and
his head went through, and
during the moment he remained
in these glassy stocks, Mrs.
Prang turned with magnificent
agility and kicked him hard in
the base of the spine.
TT was pot necessary to see
them to know that the police
had arrived, for a sudden hush
of awkwardness and constraint
fell on the bar.
I departed immediately for my
room, feeling that the vapid,
colorless existence at Haberfield
had been left far behind me, and
something piquant and sensa-
tional had entered my life.
I lay on njy new bed and won-
dered, as a pleasant lethargy
crept over me, what further
excitement my home in Erko
might hold in store. I watched
the deepening shadows in the
corner of the room ; heard dimly
the subdued traffic passing out-
side ; and, at regular intervals,
the exuberant gurgle and spray
of the cistern in the Men’s citadel
immediately below my room.
flight! “What makes a humming-
bird so fantastically manoeuvr-
able? It Can turn its wings
over.”
One merit that Mr. Devoe has
isn’t perhaps as common as it
might be among “animalisers”
who write books —he’s well
aware of animalistic individu-
ality. He doesn’t claim that all
his mice are Melbas. He prob-
ably wouldn’t rate some of them
any higher than Johnny Ray. “A
generality, when it pertains to
animal life,” he says, “is almost
a piece of non-information.”
Also: “An animal is a being, a
life, an individuality. It is not
just a congeries of predictable
chemicals, and not just a
statistic.”
That outlook cant be said to
hang very noticeably about text-
books on Australia’s own
usually remarkably individu-
alistic native fauna —or so any
of these that present “un-
schooled animaliser” has got to
know personally has always
seemed. Most emphatically the
possums. Those may not have
been mice that were sometimes
heard singing around that North
Sydney address, but there was
no maybe about the possums.
Over a stretch of years, in
varying force —the most ever at
one time was half a dozen —
they came in on to the partly
glassed-in balcony every night,
for dinner: bread, fresh carrot-
tops, rose-petals, bananas,
raisins, or whatever else was
found to appeal to their
individual tastes. A number of
things the authorities sweepingly
say possums live bn, these little
chaps just wouldn’t look at. By
the same token, not one of them
would ever touch the freshest of
lettuce-leaves, green beans and
some other things that backyard
gardeners commonly accuse them
of raiding. (Of course you’d
sometimes see little footprints
amongst the beans, and some of
the beans half-eaten, but —well,
take George Bernard Shaw . . ,
and if there can be vegetarian
playwrights why couldn’t there
be vegetarian cats?)
The possums who thus regu-
larly came there to dinner —
treating this writer not so much
as a host but more as another
possum who knew how to open
the cake-tin and peel bananas—
were of both the main kinds seen
round Sydney, silvergreys and
ringtails. You could say of them
that each kind shared certain
tastes of their own in common,
the silvers in general showing
special preference for plain bread
and about its complete antithesis,
rose-petals; and the ringtails
preferring, in general, bananas.
But —Mr. Devoe’s point—any
single one of either kind was
likely to show a definite
individual taste for some par-
ticular item on the menu.
One ringie—a thorough little
gentleman, too —was so partial
to fruit-cake that he would grab
two fistfuls at a time, and sit
there scoffing the one little
pawful and holding the second-
course up at the ready. On the
other hand, his wife—the term
seems exactly right for this par-
ticular pair—was almost wholly
a banana-addict. No wonder that
red soil up on the Tweed River’s
Terranora hills now brings
fabulous prices; she must have
doubled values up there right on
her own.
She was, too —as another
individual trait—the only one of
all of them to venture indoors at
all regularly from the balcony.
One or .two of the silvers did
come in occasionally, but only
to complain that somebody had
got in ahead of them and scoffed
the lot. Ringie was a regular.
She came in at any old hour of
the night, looking rather sur-
prised to find you in bed, and
having got you out and sat you
down on the floor near the side-
board, where the bananas grew,
she’d perch herself up on your
curled foot or your knee, eat a
good-sized banana and a half, or
even two (you’d wonder where
she put. them), then wipe her
whiskers, clean her front paws
and wander off out again. Inci-
dental to this rather frequent
performance, neither ringies nor
silvers ever once tackled a
banana unless it was opened for
them. They never seemed to
know how to go about it, not
even after repeated object and
oral lessons.
As a final addition to these
inexpert unnaturalist notes,
touching on the reference to that
pair of ringies as a wedded
couple, Mr. Devoe has some-
thing to say on this score also.
It’s pretty sure, he says, that foxes
mate for life; a father cougar,
though he may stay away from
the den when the cubs are born,
generally comes back while they
are still little and henceforth
heads the family ; father wolves
help feed the youngsters, and
keep watch on high lookout
places, but generally they don’t
come into the den; as soon as a
baby marmoset is born the
mother hands it over to its
father ; and in some species pairs
are pretty well always devoted
couples, while in others Pop
makes himself scarce as soon as
mating is over.
That last bit goes for the North
Sydney silvers. Pop never alto-
gether vanished. He still hung
around ; but only most distantly
in the background. He and Mum
Silver never ever ate together,
even at the best of times.
On the other hand, the two
ringies mentioned could not have
been more devoted to each other.
Night after night they came to-
gether, and sat side-by-side on
the balcony table so close that
their fur intermingled, and
usually with their long tails
actually crossed on the table
behind them. Then, having
eaten, they’d climb one after the
other up the half of a Sydney
High School oar that served as
their ladder to the big beam of
the balcony eave, and often have
a snooze there together before
heading out along the branches
to wherever it was they lived.
There was only one sort of
break in this routine, and it was
observed about three times over
the years. For a night or two
you might see neither or maybe
only one of them. Then one
night—and on each occasion this
happened on the one night only
—Mother Ringie came along by
herself, except for the tiny
replica of both of them, about
the size of your thumb, clinging
into the fur on her back. What
seemed, though, the most extra-
ordinary thing about this was
that from then on she would
come without the little fellow
ever being on her back;
and, in fact, you would never
see him again, until months later
a young but now already prac-
tically fully-grown, spanking-
new ringie would come in along
the branches and, a little timidly
at first, take a small piece of
banana, taste it, and eat thereof,
and find it good.


THE SHADOW
by Vince Kelly
Now revealed for the first time, by one
of Sydney's best-known crime reporters,
are the amazing exploits of Frank
Fahy, police shadow and undercover
man. His ability to move amongst
criminals as one of themselves was
extraordinary. This is the vivid and
authentic story of one man’s life of un-
ceasing danger, and of precarious
assignments always undertaken alone.
17/6 (post 9d.)
ROMANCE OF THE GREAT
BARRIER REEF by Frank Reid
The waters of the world have released
many an untold story of incredible
fascination, but from the wondrous
beauties and perilous waters of the
Great Barrier Reef, Frank Reid has
harvested an amazing collection of tales
that really happened on our own shores
—tales of wrecks, massacres and buried
treasure, but few regions of the world
could equal. Many line illustrations.
22/6 (post lid.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, and all the books you leant to .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : ! 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
★ Britain s leading adventure Writer
Hammond Innes
THE STRANGE LAND. “He has surely now no rival in the
field as a writer of entirely credible adventure stories in a style
that makes no concessions at all to the sensational. The narrator
in The Strange Land is an acquaintance every reader for pleasure
should make without delay.”— daniel GEORGE.
COHENS PUBLISHERS
TOLL GATE
Georgette Heyer
A new, exciting, witty and highly entertaining
Regency Romance
At all booksellers - 12/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON ; : MELBOURNE =: SYDNEY .= AUCKLAND
D.S.: There is more food for thought,
perhaps, lower down the map—in the
Low Countries, shall 1 say? Belgium
and Holl —:
O.B.: Were you shown round the
Belgian National Broadcasting Service
by Frans Zoete? Charming chap. Did
Jesse Gits take you round Brussels in
that swanky Foreign Office automobile
escorted by two motor-cycles? Good
old Josse! Did Romi Goldmuntz show
you over his diamond-cutting factory in
Antwerp —or, better still, did you do
the “Rubens-Tour” of Antwerp that
attracts so many art-lovers?
D.S.: When I was in Italy —you will
perhaps have seen by chance a few trifles
of mine about a Dali exhibition, Robert
Browning and an opera at Florence -
O.B.: Yes, yes; opera is not what it
was. In Vienna, for instance, a tenor
of today sang the finale of his aria,
“Celeste Aida,” in a voice that was almost
a falsetto, instead of reaching the ring-
ing top C of a true tenor. How surprising
to find a supposedly discerning Viennese
audience enthusing over this eunuch effort
—the applause came mainly, however,
from a crowd of youngsters in the gods.
Still, the soprano, Dragicis Martinis, has
a most glorious voice, don’t you think
—or didn’t you get to Vienna?
D.S.: When I was in Italy
O.B.: You should, you know. Leaving
the Russian zone, the tour-guide says,
“I can talk more freely. As you know,
Vienna is divided into five zones, and
if everything goes well, in fifty years’
time we’ll have an Austrian zone”—cute,
eh?
D.S.: What is that book you are
riffling the pages of as you carry on this
hysterical parade of traVelese ? Give it
tome. Ha! Roaming Round Europe by
Frank Clune. Clune! One of Angus
and Robertson’s London jobs, I see.
Random Rambles in Paris, Eire, Iceland,
Vienna and Belgium. It hasn’t got any-
thing about Italy.
0.8. (sadly); No ; it hasn't got any-
thing about Italy.
D.S.: When I was in Italy ...
The Lonely Fire
If one thinks of Nan McDonald as a
lady of the night, it is because at least
half the poems of her second book of
verse, The Lonely Fire (Angus and
Robertson), are sef in the evening or
night; the title-poem, for instance:
Only red on the wharf one fire burns,
Only the madman’s voice makes broken
song;
His hollow, bearded face haunts the smoke,
returns
And fades like the veering of his derelict
mind
That now by no day or night, by shout or
flame,
Can signal to its kind....
and it would be wrong to look in most
of these poems for something sharp and
definite ; their meaning swirls and fades
like faces in firelight veiled in smoke:
All night, outside the mind the room’s thick
darkness,
The shadowy gleam of the mirror, that the
dead
Haunt dimly with their glances....
or, in action :
A cry in the night; a wild red flare from
Over the dark swamp rolling, a mirk of
smoke;
Running feet stumbling, slipping on diy
sand-, curses, . ,
Men reeling blinded back to sob and choke.
Black, desperate shapes against the flames
they fought.
Oh, more than boats were burning in that
pyre—
Hope, home, the one bridge back to life
from this island —
Their children shrieked from the devouring
fire.
Still, when Miss McDonald ventures
forth in the daytime, she can see very
clearly, as in “From a Suburban Back-
yard” ;
My neighbor, a careful man, hangs discs of
metal
Round his ripe berries, to scare the bulbuls
away; . . '
Merry as Christmas they swing with the
small led fruit
And flash through the green. If we did not
live so near
Their sweet clink-clink would not come to
me all day
With thought of cattle-bells, of grass waist-
deep
Rolling in golden acres to the sky
She can find humor in being tall, and
think curious things in “Market Street;
Friday Evening”:
Praise be to God who gave me bones
And sti etched them out so tall
That my nose can lift from the hot thick
crowd,
The steam and shove of it a 11....
so high, indeed, and to such purpose that
she sees:
... .the southerly buster
Come roaring in from the sea,
And the leaves blowing over,
The green and silver,
Brown tower of St. Mary’s
Like a rock in the stream,
The swift stream of heaven,
The grey torrent drowning
Torn woolpack, rent azuie,
The Summer day’s dream.
Likewise, she admits to having been
one of those hesitant helpers at tables
outside polling-booths, who talk between
voters;
Growing warmer, we pass on
To our ailments and certain cures, till a gust
from the sea
Finds us huddled together against its rainy
squall, ...
Division forgotten. We know it is not
the thing;
We should have played our farce till the
curtain-fall
Of decent dark, but more’s to blame than
ourselves;
More -than the voters, who let us have our
s&y ■
With country courtesy, then strolled inside
To vote as they would have voted any-
way....
Nor does her poetry forsake her in this
unlikely situation:
we can see from here
White-glimmering through the dusk the
soldier guarding .
Heaped spoils of autumn gardens, withering
away „ , , .
On the rock at his clumsy feet, the dying
splendor , „ A _
Washed there by the high tide of Anzac Day.
Fading, the tawny gold and the green laurel,
The velvet crimson, muted under the ram,
And we know whoever wins can no more
save us , , . ,
Than bid the clouds not weep, the light not
wane.
My foe beyond the gate, my countryman
Loves this land as 1, and tears tor hei
even he, ,
My brother-man on whom the great doom
darkens, , , ...
A child of God who shares under the night
That first, that last, that only hope with me.
Critical Essays
A memorial committee has published
fifty critical essays by P. I.
Bard in Bondage, selected and edited,
with a preface, by Joseph O Dwyer
(Hawthorn Press). .
Patrick Ignatius O’Leary conducted,
and but rarely failed to fill, of himself,
the literary page of “The Advocate of
Melbourne from 1920 until 1924. His
essays are better at conveying information
than giving insight into literary pro-
blems, or a new turn to thought; and
overseas authors are usually
accompanied into Australia with overseas
criticism to which the Australian critic
ran add little of long-range value, the
can aoa WUe w S .
best part of O Leary s book is me essays
on Australian writers, Harpur ana
Deniehy Kendall, Gordon, Kingsley,
Clarke ’ Boldrewood, Lawson, Esson,
LdarKe, „ R n “Furnlev
Maurice.",, and “Our First Brood of
songsters.
He can give you a good introduction to
a subject, but there it stops:
To know precisely just what Brennan
means by this passage or by that of sub-
iec £' h be E fnSe r r y of yoVmSS
[James] Joyce was not.
Redolent of Roman Catholicism,
wifh its preference of Conrad to the out-
dghtly-atheistic Hardy,, its two
Gerard
religious influence in contemporary
poetry, the book is enough
until the essay on Heroes of Eastei
Week,” in memory of Easter, 1916, when
the Irish Republic
cause of Irish patriots dying men a
fierce light comes into the authors eyes,
and his prose mounts up into an incanta-
Sn S only one versed in Irish
affairs could properly. ““/"f only fierce
This is only one, and the only tie ,
Henry and Matthew Arnold, and ic-
members old best-sellers (“Who Reads
Them Today?”) and, among other
causeries. writes well on “The Woolly
Verbiage of the Musical [sic] Critic,”
instancing a local practitioner’s remarks
on Szigeti.
“Tone of itself is mysterious, and when
poetioally-suggestive is never without an
dement of wonder . But let the still more
mysterious artistic faculty fashion music
out of a rare Guarnerius and then stars are
called into being, wonder-worlds for the
imaginative to inhabit.
ca t e sayj sucb uninformed criticism
draws popular attention to the fact that
a wor k was performed, and in its strange
conglomeration of verbiage manages to
CO nvey that the performance caused
immense pleasure to the writer-and what
more can all but the greatest hteiaiy
criticism do than to draw the attention
of a reader to a book and leave him with
But the [ a bor that more exacting minds
make better than ordinary is not
as the comm ittee obviously
thougM that decided that these essays
must be put in a book.
T
Your Book of Boxing : Donald K. Silks
. ' • for boys on the ele-
(Faber). treatise ror
ments of the art, with illustrations on
every page and footwork diagrams.
Winners for Winsome: David J.
w < rTXf>ntT A rarv little comic novel
tv i
Hidden Harbour: Kathrene Mcerton
(Bodley Head). A book for older children
about an Alaskan family and their adven-
tures on and off a sloop.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 294
Across
I— The fellow I treated successfully
had a treatment at the fingertips.
(9)
s—Sedan containing Europeans. (5)
g_Wolf to affectionately enfold
nothing but Victor. (4)
9—There’s nothing sissy about this
craft in Sydney. (5, 5)
ll Mountain topic what is on the
nose according to the unicorn.
(10) ,
12—A sort of shock vessel. (3)
14— Retributive justice makes men
turn East, Sister. (7)
15 — An apple sat back with mother.
(5)
16— Girl put back a property ot
realisable value. (5)
18—Soft-soap is less uneven. (7)
21— Lemonade report. (3)
22 — A tennis stroke by the queen is a
foul blow. (10)
25 — N.S.W. town to make beer marry
without my girl. (10) .
26 A reason for scratching Dmitri
Tschaikovsky in part. (4)
27 Dark from the French heaven.
28 — complaint against dessert made
by Keats’s “Belle Dame Sans
Merci.” (5, 4)
Down
1 — An Australian comedian acted
badly over an Allah worshipper.
(10)
2 There’s nothing in such late
work. (5, 2)
3 Gains about pains. (7)
4 Old Eros is disturbing for the
keynote learning’s girl. (7)
5 Remove the millinery keynote
very loudly expressed. (4)
6 A disorderly Roman between
north and south invaders ot
Britain. (7)
7 Where to keep a pig kiss to be
crossed (but not double-ciossed)
by underworld characters. (4)
10 —Allow advice about straight hair.
(6) .
13 —what produces the eggs m the
place where cars are sold m a
Welsh town. (10)
15—1 am swallowed by a giant
painter. (6)
17_Xhey stack holy debtors in a ship
carrying a feature of Pisa. (7)
18 —jf upset,-take the landed property
vehicles with current in sacks.
(7)
19__Invite one over to this Parisian in
a sidelong way. (7)
20—Italian house of entertainment to
disencumber a German boy. (7)
23 Bunk with none but Ruth’s boy.
(4)
24 Midshipman offers no difficulty.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 293


■<o
(
X
VJ
s
v>
that slip; through your finger;
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
m
'■ ’* I
vV ✓A
m
V#
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
m/UUI
