

asnoH an*
w
ŵ
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
ROIAL
PL El
GREAT EL * * -"PAGNE
The Bulletin
THE RESCUE OF BROKEN HILL
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3861
Wednesday, February i y i
1
Registered at tbe General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
DUNGANNON, CRADLE
OF FREEDON IN
NORTHERN IRELAND
WEST of Lough Neagh and south of the
Sperrin Mountains in Northern Ireland
is County Tyrone, an area of wooded hills
and heather moorlands. It is a county steeped
in the history of the Middle Ages and before,
when its borders extended far into the counties
known as Armagh, Derry and Donegal. It
was the county of the powerful O’Neills, Earls
of Tyrone and Kings of Ulster. Their chief
stronghold was Dungannon, but nothing now
remains of their fortress on the site now known
as Castle Hill. From earliest times the
O’Neills refused to acknowledge the alien
government of England and as a result the
town was involved in a long series of battles.
No other place in Ireland is more intimately
identified with the struggle for national free-
dom than Dungannon. Even as late as 1783
it was the chosen spot for the meeting in the
Presbyterian Church of the Irish Volunteers
who demanded the independence of the Irish
Parliament. Dungannon was created a borough
by James I (1603-1625) and it was the capital
of the county until 1885, when the administra-
tion was moved to Omagh. Today, Dungan-
non, with a population of 4000, owes much
of its prosperity to the linen industry, and it
boasts a Royal school among its several
educational establishments of high repute.
Within easy reach is Lough Neagh, the
largest freshwater lake in the British Isles,
being 17 miles long, 11 miles wide and in one
area 1200 feet deep. At one time the region
surrounding the lake provided oak for British
battleships, and the lake itself had its own
flotilla. This is recalled by one of the existing
titles of the Marquess of Donegal, which is
“Hereditary Lord High Admiral of Lough
Neagh,” For a period of 150 years during
the 8th and 9th centuries, the invading Norse-
men reached Lough Neagh from the Atlantic
by way of the river Bann, and used the lake
as an operational base for their raiding expedi-
tions in the British Isles. In more recent times,
during the second World War, Lough Neagh
was used as a vast training-ground by American
troops for the invasion of North Africa and
Europe.


The Red Page
"TASMANIAN PASTORAL"
i is In, gh to say of Kath-
btr asmanian Pastoral
Soi.nc v ity Press) that Mrs.
vos has hundred robins fol-
. the on the Tasmanian
>ut; but that would
v y e lew for a delightful
h. k. nust list a few more
.hi oodlands, out from
alley of the Meander,
Tasmania’s central
go the gallant Lieu-
grant of 2000 acres
e of the township of
a.ns;. bushranger Matthew
er actually came to
1. ? f;n on ie wilds.
cribes how she and
r 1 . asband came to buy
they settled-in the
the bushrangers and
e now no more than
dry in the darkness
icugh;
I I peered out of the
etching for Evelyn’s
xaddocks. The grass
y pale, but the. bush-
above, fold on fold,
0 the mountain-walls,
the evening shadows.
g-/. : i on some uninhabited
me-wires were down,
ess, no electric-light—
•■ut: candles and flickering
1 seemed to vanish as
e primeval hills which
they made the old
beautiful; how they
reclaimed the garden from the wilder-
ness ; how their sheep and cattle came
in, how the crops of peas and potatoes
and flax were sown, and how mightily
the floods came down after the first
dramatic warning on the telephone from
a station higher up, “Cheshunt calling.
The river is rising fast”:
Evelyn and Carey sloshing through the
shallows up the valigy to rescue the ewes
~ for the second time from where they were
now marooned on the Black Flat....
Towards dusk the rain ceased momentarily
so that we could hear the rush of the des-
cending streams, and from far across the
marsh the sound of the river. Then the
rain began again, but all through the dark-
ness of the night the full-throated roar of
the distant river sounded like a hidden
menace. When I woke next morning the
bedroom, which faces east, seemed curi-
ously light. We seemed to have been
transported overnight onto the shores of
some vast lake From behind the barns
and stockyards and away up the long
valley to the top boundary at the Willow
Paddock lay one great sheet of water
slowly moving downwards.
Then there is everything that goes on
around the farm when it is not under
Tasmania’s generous water-supply: snipe
coming in from Siberia, seeking year
after year the property their family had
probably owned for centuries before
Lieutenant Gunn ; yellow-tipped parda-
lotes or leopard-birds, “brown and
yellow starred with white,” nesting in a
clay bank above the water where Mrs.
Graves somewhat inefficiently fishes for
trout; a swamp-hawk nesting in the oats,
circling to a speck high up in the blue
when anyone came to inspect the “three
white eggs about the size of a pullet’s” ;
red rain falling from the eroded pad-
docks of the mainland; a snake dis-
appearing into nowhere in the tussocks,
the way snakes do ; trouble with the
pea-crop; rabbits eating the young
kale; the triumphant bustle of harvest;
country shows and markets to visit; pre-
historic mountain-shrimps to be found
lurking in pools on the mountains
“where some land has evidently remained
above seas which have submerged the
earth time after time through successive
ages”; summer days and th “sun,
sound”: —
But a wave of heat came stes mg <■
the sea on a slight movement
from the north where the cox.,
baking in its summer heat. The <>. . t--
lay dreaming behind their bli -.eu-
haze all the long summer days,
no longer bare rock and rubble, ;n-,
almost like the petals of some j >v. is
lying soft, shimmering, and in
under the hot sun.... It was .<
the afternoon that I could p the
busy actions to ride out into th , , rot
to hear the locusts sing, but the
peculiar humming that made it •
as if the atmosphere were vib aim* i the
heat, and by which everyoni km v., Ivat
summer was here. This humnr..r,;r sound m
the'upper air was Jong attributed '
inanimate agency—Gilbert WI cv. .
gested that it might be “the c iv
spheres”! It has since been pr
the noise of, insects—bees, t is,
crickets and cicadas croakin Jy
or rasping their legs or win
the summer sun.
This reviewer has frequi
that most Australian ‘ c v ‘.d:-/’'
writers, naturalists and fiat , ;n.l i
by the vastness of the continent, try to
cover too much ground—the whole con-
tinent in a single volume ; fire whole of
some aspect of natural-history—thereby
falling into superficiality and generalisa-
tion. It is deep and leisurely observation
and meditation that make the great
nature-books; it is enough to stay in
one place and know it well.
And that is precisely what Mrs.
Graves has done; one bit of Tasmanian
earth watched with love for one year.
Her book is not great like those on which
it is probably modelled. White, Thoreau
and Walton, lacking White’s fanatical
passion for the earth and Walton’s
water-bubbling lightness of touch ; but
anybody who cares for those writers will
enjoy every word of it—for its admirable
restraint (it says just enough and not too
much about the surrounding countryside ;
just enough and not too much about the
old days of the blacks and the convicts),
for its riches of country observation, and
for its excellent prose style.
Watch on the Yarra
ẃ
side of it—and, by Jove, so one’s house
has. He says: — t
Given a 50ft. strip most Australians are
content. On either side and at the back
they erect a paling-fence 6ft. high. At
the front they put up a lower, decorated
fence. Inside the rectangle they plant the
home in which they will rear their children
and live out their days Still in the aver-
age cottage of today there is a square
main block containing the polite rooms
under a high-hipped hat, and at the back
there is a skillion extension with the wash-
house, the W.C., and a place for the wood.
And still, no matter which way the 50tt.
block faces, the main rooms are at the
front, on either side of the entrance-door.
Mr. Boyd doesn’t say exactly how he
would overcome this dreadful uniformity
—whether, say, he would come in the
front-gate by an overhead bridge, put
the W.C. on the front porch (where in-
deed it could be very useful) and store
the firewood on the roof—but there is
a brief reference to “chopping away the
accepted subdivisions between first and
second parlors, doubling the normal
window-size and throwing the house
open to sun and air”—that gives one a
clue to the kind of thing he has in mind.
And a very pleasant kind of thing it
may be —provided Mr. Boyd is not too
keen on the “communal living” he talks
about and provided he does not want to
overdo the window idea . . . only toma-
toes, really, should live in a glasshouse.
But whatever kind of house Mr. Boyd
puts up —and of course one agrees with
him about planting or preserving the
natural Australian trees and shrubs:
which he says nobody does —one fears
that he will still find himself living in
a “box” and following a fashion. You
must have walls and a roof; therefore
you must have a box. Like walking on
two legs it is the doom of man, and it
may well be modified but it won’t be
reversed till we all walk upside-down.
Mr. Alan McCulloch is equally alarm-
ing on Australian art. He begins by
saying that the aborigines had a “won-
derful” art and he concludes by saying
they had a “magnificent” art. Between
those two whacking superlatives some
reasonably good painting—one is pleased
to learn —is done by members of the
Heidelberg school, mentioning Roberts
and Streeton, but not Gruner; and then
with one prodigious bound over the
heads ol nearly all other contestants for
immortality Mr. McCulloch arrives at
John Passmore, Arthur Boyd, Russell
Drysdale and Sidney Nolan ... in whose
achievements “is perhaps the germ of
our national art.”
Without wishing to bother too much
about artistic controversy, this reviewer
would like gently to mention to Mr
McCulloch two names he should know
—Hans Heysen and Lance Solomon—and
to ask him, in the utmost quietude, if
he seriously believes that any aborigine
wonderful and magnificent as he may
have been, really achieved quite so much
as Elioth Gruner in “Spring Frosts.”
Yet another critic in Taking Stock who
causes one, at least for a moment, to
pause and take stock of his criticism is
Mr. Arthur Phillips; who, discussing
Australian literature, says of Norman
Lindsay, “Asa writer he is not of great
importance.” Which might be well
enough if Mr. Phillips were discussing
Dickens and Conrad, but he is talking
about Vance Palmer and Frank Dalby
Davison.
Since Norman Lindsay does not exist
in Mr. McCulloch’s outline of Australian
art, the combined effect of these two
essays seems a little hard on an artist and
writer whose Magic Pudding, as Mr.
Phillips admits, “is a minor classic” ... as
also, perhaps, are Saturdee, Rqdheap and
A Curate in Bohemia. One has a notion
that Norman Lindsay’s writing is not
taken very seriously because he himself
is not, on the surface at any rate, serious-
minded about it; but neither was Field-
ing very serious in Tom Jones nor
Furphy, on the whole, in Such Is Life.
But Mr. Phillips, who certainly does
mention the “vitality and color” of what
he calls “the Norman Lindsay Roman-
tics,” is an admirable critic—one of the
best now writing in Australia—and be-
yond that one incautious remark there
is little to cavil at in his survey.
The “line” he takes—of the gradual
emergence of Australian literature from
“the bondage of colonialism”—is the best
possible path for a quick journey through
our books, and his thought on the way
is both deep and lively.
He believes that most Australian
writers have by now escaped the shadow
of the “minatory Englishman”—that is,
they can write as they wish, without
either cringing to overseas authority or
noisily rebelling against it—but that Aus-
tralian readers (and too many critics, one
might add), still not quite believing that
the local product can really be taken
seriously, have yet to catch up with
them.
Mr. Phillips’s essay, by a significant
chance, could be applied not only to
Australian literature, but to Taking
Stock as a whole: for one way or an-
other nearly ail these essayists are con-
cerned with the overriding problem of
our relations with Great Britain: Mr.
W. Macmahon Ball, for instance, dis-
cussing foreign politics with his familiar
insistence on our trying to make friends
with neighbors to the north, and even
Professor G, V, Portus on “our surpris-
ing successes in sport when pitted against
the outside world,” To “take stock” of
ourselves these days we have to take
stock of many things: including, in Mr.
W. D. Borrie’s essay, 362,000 non-British
immigrants.
This reviewer, to be frank, approached
Taking Stock with extreme trepidation:
it is a dull title, and it looks a dull book.
But what with thinking about how to
throw the house open to sun, air, bur-
glars and communal-planners, and con-
templating our wonderful, magnificent
aboriginal drawings on bits of bark, and
wondering whether Great Britain wont
be our best friend in the long run, one
found a surprising amount of mild
pleasure in agreeing and disagreeing
with it; and other readers, no doubt,
will do likewise.
Kafka and the Count
Separated in life by a hundred years,
Franz Kafka, poor Jewish clerk and sur-
realist novelist of twentieth-century
nightmares, and Conte Giacomo Leo-
pardi, scion of Italy’s provincial aristo-
cracy and most pure of Italian poets oi
the nineteenth century—held up as a
model of pure writing by Matthew
Arnold—arrive in the same batch ot
books; Kafka in his Letters to Mue"a-
translated by Tania and James Stern an
edited by Willi Haas (Seeker and 'war-
burg), and Leopardi in a revised edition
of Iris Origo’s Leopardi: A n ‘
Solitude (Hamish Hamilton), which first
appeared in 1935. f
What must surprise any reader
Letters to Milena is that Kafka foun
time for a bookful of love-letters amo g
VARIOUS VERSE
THESE WRENS, THIS WATTLE-
TREE
These wrens, this wattle-tree,
the rapid blue, the sheltered green
on the sandy bracken hill
dance their color in my mind,
swerve a meaning to the heart:
nor any meaning heart can find.
Above the wastes of yellow thorn
and dry moss stones, in steady shade,
they flash their blue within this green,
O into shadow, out of shade
they swerve their color through the air
and dance a meaning for the mind:
be where the song is, heart be there.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
LIGHT AT SEA
The dark of the sea was all ears listening,
Hearing the wetness piled on the wetness;
flesh
Clasping flesh: a nakedness insisting
Upon nudity in the night; and the lash,
The lash of the wind driving all bodies on.
Are they not bodies, the waves, blindly
forced
Into collision, into fornication.
Into all shapes that darkness conjures;
cursed
Bitterly; alone in their numbers? Child,
It was your eyes that have not been sullied,
Night lied to. We saw the cape light, wild
• -J r>~ll while the cloud
It needed one
JT*
golden ligl >ve landfall was
on our beam- '
JrTXNSLANL
JOHN BLIGHT.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION
■’>. veil of i-ain drc. ot> upon the day,
ihe green hills ■ • d fade to spectral
grey, ’ ,
aint wisps of mist abouv, the hollows stray.
All color shrinks away
ihe day. r.eclii ather faints than
>ther wraiths she
' V /
With subtlety the la. of death defies
And claims no chsee 38 .
■‘-w.vvv t e .* js but In ,r where sprang the
- / • jkr". ‘/yfc-
I a womb of vacancy.
There is no line, no edge, no boundary
’Twixt land and hazy sea;
The hushed earth lies abstracted in some
dream
Wherein all lives and fates suspended
seem:
No sparkle anywhere, no fire, no gleam,
And quiet reigns supreme.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
AT THE SEVEN MILE
Summer has left the paddocks bare;
The skyline timber rides upon the air
Like ships becalmed. The daylight moon
Is not more desolate, and yet
A traveller from Hay to Bourke
Might well mistake it for a bullock’s bone.
And yet the supplejacks . . . and yet . . .
They dance like naked children in the
heat;
Emus stalk fence-posts on the plain;
And at the soak the wanderer,
That wayward drunken butterfly,
Makes of all time an endless daisy chain.
He swipes the everlasting cups
And wipes wet smiles and honey from his
lips,
Hiccups and rests.—Oh honeycomb!
I lie full length and suck the moon,
Savoring thought’s sweet silences
Whence men and butterflies and harvests
come.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE SNOWGUM
It is the snowgum silently,
In noon’s blue and the silvery
Flowering of light on snow.
Performing its slow miracle
Where upon drift and icicle
Perfect lies its shadow.
Leaf upon leaf’s fidelity.
The creamy trunk’s solidity,
The full-grown curve of the crown,
It is the tree’s perfection
Now shown in clear reflection
Like flakes of soft grey stone.
Out of the granite’s eternity.
Out of the winters’ long enmity,
Something is done on the snow;
And the silver light like ecstasy
Flows where the green tree perfectly
Curves to its perfect shadow.
N.S.W,
DOUGLAS STEWART.


In the bathroom or on the beach
a/A
m •'
«
m
■ m
m
m
M
m
m
A
H
m
m
■
ii
m
m
.
A
A. Heavyweight super quality
towels in a wide range of coh
ours in a spot design. This
towel comes in size 24 x 48in.
and is priced at 11/6 each.
D. Coloured towels
in blue, green or
orange stripes pre'
dominating. Size 22
x 44in. Priced at
only 9/3 each.
I
5
! U
I
M
i
m
E. All linen tea towels featuring attractive multi stripes.
Dependable quality. Size 22in. x 32in. Priced at 4/9 ea.
F. Striped glass cloths in colours of red, blue, green or
gold. These are of a specially woven, fine texture for clear
drying and long wear. Size 24in. x 34in. Priced at 6/3 ea.
G. Heavyweight absorbent weave towels in size 24in. x
4*Hn. These are of a, reliable quality and are long wearing.
They are priced at only 13/6 each.
aldcomiM
Quality weaves in huge variety
IBSGsB ■ -
gift':'®:
• : p
I Hi
m
i
i
lIBmB
f ,
' MB
m
B. Bath Towels in deep
shades of red, royal, green,
sun/gold, orange or black.
Size 24 > x 48ins. Priced
at only 17/6 each.
m
ii
m
9
ill
If
Vi
G. Dri-glo bath towels in bright,
attractive multi stripes. A depend'
able quality. Size 24 x 46in. and
are priced at 9/11 each.
X
wm
MLL^
r'*
t m
i m
vm
m
?
m
■■■■■
m
>..>
»
I. Super quality
“Sylvan” face
washers. Pastel
blue, pink, green,
lemon, lavender or
white. Size 12 x
12in., 3/6 each.
Super quality pastel
bath towels in blue,
green, pink, lemon,
lavender or white.
These have hemmed
ends. Size 24 x 48.
Priced at 14/6 ea.
ass
H. Dri'Glo terry
swabs for hotel or
home use. Size 18
x 20ins. Colours of
blue or green . . .
Priced at -3/11 ea.
.1
Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney. ’Phone: M 2401
w
•rSSV-
SB


With Literary and Artistic Blokes
Henry Lawson Drops In
By JAMES HACKSTON
HENRY LAWSON used to call in
at the “Worker” office in Sydney
every morning to see Jack Higgins;
and every morning Jack gave him
a threepenny-bit. It had become not
only a practice of his to give Henry this
daily allowance, but part of his day’s
work.
Sometimes when Higgins was absent
Henry would have a yarn with Hector
Lamond, and if Lamond happened to be
out, would sit in Lamond’s editorial chair
and wait there until he heard the donor
of his daily coin arrive opposite.
At this time I had a room which
adjoined Lamond’s office, and it so
happened that one day Henry, having in-
stalled himself comfortably in the editorial
chair, began to give me the full force of
his lovely, soft, brooding eyes. After a
long period of this intense staring at me
Henry addressed me, so:
“Wears a green shirt, parts his hair
down the middle, copying Phil May.”
After this criticism his head drooped
down to a pause of slumber, on coming
out of which he looked up at me and
again gave it to me:
“Wears a green shirt, parts his hair
down the middle, copying Phil May.”
Then his head again sank down into
another short spell of smouldering peace,
and, according to schedule, then rose
again from slumber and let me have it
once more:
“Wears a green shirt, parts his hair
down the middle, copying Phil May.”
And so it went on, head down, sleep,
wakefulness, green shirt, hair down the
middle, Phil May, and then back to
slumber. I must have been a touchy
little bloke then; or was it that the con-
tinued monotony of Henry’s voice, and
criticism, unsettled me. Anyway, I told
Higgins that I’d been insulted by Henry
Lawson and told him what the poet had
said about me.
“Well,” said Higgins, “he’s a friend of
mine; but you are my friend, too, and
I won’t have Henry insult a friend of
mine. When he comes in the morning 1
won’t give him his threepence.”
“Oh, never mind,” I said. *
“No,” said Jack, “I won’t give him his
threepence! ”
The long chain of many threepenny-bits
was to be broken.
Next morning, just about the time
Henry generally came for the small dona-
tion, I was in Higgins’s office when Higgins
suddenly pressed a finger to his lips for
silence: “It’s Henry’s footsteps.”
Then came that recognisable Henry
Lawson knock on the door. We remained
silent. Another knock of the same degree
of strength; but not harder, or suddenly
adamant or complaining; just polite and
patient—gentlemanly, too. More silence.
Then the footsteps withdrew and Higgins
whispered conqueringly, “He’s going,”
and yet as if a little disgusted with him-
self for being so small, and making me
feel the same, too. We could read it in
each other’s eyes.
The stairs in the “Worker” building
ran up past Higgins’s office, which was
an open one on top, and from the stairs
anyone could peer over the stair-rail and
talk down into the room. Henry had
gone up the stairs: suddenly, quietly,
peacefully and with not the least sign of
disappointment or hurt, a soft, patient,
uncomplaining and most philosophical
voice came down to us:
“I know you’re busy. Jack; slip it
under the door.”
We both looked up guiltily, and there,
in a giraffe-like pose, was Henry, head
on the end of what then looked like an
extraordinary long neck, craning over
the stair-rail and almost, it seemed, poking
down into the very heart of the room it-
self. His head seemed near to resting
on us. The threepence was collected.
I used to see him sometimes sitting in
the private bar of the hotel where I
stayed, but he never took any more
notice of me. I did not exist. He amused
me, though, for the licensee of the hotel
would not serve him (for literature’s
sake), and Henry used to sit against the
wall and stoically, defiantly, brazenly and
independently drink . . . oh, so slowly . . .
a bottle of beer, drinking it out of the
bottle with a steady, unflinching, defiant
fire lighting up the softness of his burn-
ing eyes. Yes, drinking beer in a pub
where they would not serve him—that’d
show ’em!
“Wears a green shirt, parts his hair
down the middle, copying Phil May.”
And so I did. When I was young Mother
had bought me “Phil May’s Annual”
from a hawker at the door, which had a
photo of May in it, hair parted down
the middle, and the moment I saw that
picture X knew that I was going to do
my hair just like that for life. 1 stuck to
May’s hair-do, too, until only one hair
remained to part, and the monotony of
endeavoring to part one hair every morn-
ing was too much for me, and so I had
to be contented with just brushing it down
on its own. Henry’s observation was
right—my hair was a perfect replica of
May’s.
V, I. P(erhaps)
When the Federal Parliament was
housed in Melbourne, C, J. Dennis, Dave
Low and Hal Gye, having been round
to Dennis’s office near by, thought
they’d visit Parliament to see what was
going on.
I forget whether “Den” was wearing
his grey spats or not; but he was cer-
tainly carrying his walking-stick. He
was a dressy cove when the going was
good, and had the habit of buying him-
self the very best of shirts and ties (I
am writing this in bed and, looking over
towards my dressing-table, I , can see
“Den’s” tie-press in which he once kept
his ties so neat and tony).
With “the Bloke” looking more like a
stockbroker than a poet, Low wearing his
boxer and, of course, smoking, as usual,
a cigar, which poked out from beneath
his little black “toothbrush,” and Gye
decked-out in a suit of the same descrip-
tion as Low’s (by Melbourne’s most ex-
clusive tailor), you can visualise them as
three V.I.P. blokes —three prosperous-
looking, superior, well-bred gentlemen
(all in the boom at the time) —sauntering
majestically, nonchalantly, and in a
superior, though courteous, manner into
the House (Low’s cigar stubbed, of course
—and saved).
There, without a word to a soul, quite
automatically, taking it as their right
they walked sedately and without any
fuss up and into one of the Press-boxes
where “Den” sat down slowly and pon-
tifically, folded his hands over the
handle of his walking r stick and, with
mask-like features, looked sterner than
the Speaker could look.
Low, his visit being a purely social one
sat down with the same slow, calm and
important air and also stared stoically
before him.
Gye also bore himself with as much
dignity as his small weight would allow,
and also sat down in a manner which
did not in any way detract from the dig-
nity and bearing of the other two.
Thus majestically settled in, the three
sat like statues: no coughing; no
sneezing; no whispering behind the back
of the hand. Save for the movement of
some member’s private papers and the
droning of a speaker’s voice, peace
reigned over all. Over behind the
strangers’-gallery, looking bored and
almost hidden in the sombreness of
a shadow, was one lonely, silent, motion-
less cop on duty.
Time slept on, save for some member
entering the chamber in silence or re-
spectfully bowing himself out.
Then, suddenly, yet quietly and most
respectfully, there appeared at the en-
trance to the floor of the House a
gentleman with a yellow moustache of
a nature that bore an official air about it,
and this gentleman, dressed in black and
with a row of bright silver buttons down
his front, paused momentarily like an
actor about to take the stage.
The three gentlemen in the Press-box
turned their heads casually in the direc-
tion of yes, the Sergeant-at-Arms!
Three pairs of eyes amusedly watched as
he bowed down very low —so low, that
his hands nearly brushed the carpet as
his arms hung down limply at his sides
in the true expression of humility and
duty. Rising to his full height again,
chest out, a loud, challenging, victorious
voice rang out;
“Mr. Speak-nr, there are strung Q-ars
within the House!”
“That’s us,” said Gye.
“Don’t be silly,” said Dennis.
“Rot,” said Low.
And then a deathly pall-like silence
fell upon the House. The Speaker’s eyes
went hunting about his domain like the
turning-on of floodlights, members’ heads
turned, lifted, their eyes now solemnly
resting on the accused trio and. all of a
sudden, while the culprits still sat, the
lonely, bored cop at the back of the
strangers’-gallery switched himself on
and, opening his eyes wide, and joyously,
as a panther creeps to its prey, he began
to make ominous strides towards their
Press-box.
“Don’t give in. Den,” said Gye. “Re-
sist. I can see it in to-night’s paper: The
Larrikins’ poet stoushes cop in Parlia-
ment House.’ Your book-sales will soar.''
“Shut up,” said Dennis.
Gye came again: “And you, too, Dave.
Struggle, be carried out — all of us get
arrested. The Bulletin bail us out.
What an advertisement for us all!”
By this time the panther was nearing
them. Instead of putting up the fight
Gye thought would be so advantageous,
“Den” uncoupled his hands from his
walking-stick, gently inspected his
Stetson. Low had a look at his boxer
to see if it was in order. Gye (Bst.) tried
to look threateningly at the 16st. panther.
Then the three of them rose painfully
from their seats, stood up manfully and
frigidly, and, all in a neat and orderly
row, faced Parliament, in unison re-
volved, and in close formation, one
behind the other, the staid trio began,
steadily, slowly and in an orderly fashion,
to remove their presences from the
precincts of the House.
The cop hovered in their wake, as good
as saying; “One false step and in you 11
go, if I don’t throw the three of you
down the front-steps in the meantime.
And so the trio passed out, and on,
without even one look at the large paint-
ings on the walls or so much as a side-
long look at their temporary guide.
Strike me pink! Dennis, the creator of
the Sentimental Bloke! Gye, who drew
the Bloke and Doreen in the “nood .
Low, who’d made Billy Hughes famous
with his devastating Bulletin cartoons.
Chucked out by a yellow-moustache
Sergeant-at-Arms! Blime!
Mr. Speak -or! Huh! Strange -ars in the
’Ouse! ’Struth!
The Talkie-Critic
Replies to Correspondents
Q.: I have heard that Gloria
Mundi skyrocketed to stardom after
she had made only one appearance.
Could you tell me what this was in ?
A.: The nude.
Q. : How did Beverley Birdbrane,
one of Hollywood’s highest-salaried
stars, get her first break in films ?
A.: A studio talent-scout hap-
pened to be in court when Beverley,
who was then a pickle-bottle labeller,
was acquitted of a charge of skewer-
ing her boy-friend with an ice-pick.
The scout noticed that she painted
her nails a vivid green and frothed at
the mouth whenever she shrieked at
the prosecutor or her own attorney.
Immediately recognising in her the
potentialities of a future star, he then
and there signed her up.
Q. : What is the longest screen
kiss on record, by whom and in what
film ?
A.: In “Vermilion Passions,”
starring Montmorency lurk and Vir-
ginia Crepa. lurk, who was forced
to come up for air after Imin.
14.95ec., had to be put into an iron-
lung straight away; he also broke
his top set. After his convalescence
he took to playing Western villain
roles, and was the founder and first
president of the Society of Misogy-
nists.
Q.: Could you give me the aca-
demic background of the famous
Hollywood star Madeline Mango ?
A. : Thirty-ninth in her class (of
42) in her first and only year at col-
lege. Attended the Choctaw Bend
(Ga.) School of Dramatic Art, and
in the three quarterly terms she was
there came respectively 13th, 13th
and 14th (classes of 15). loined
Lower Rattlesnake (Pa.) Amateur
Dramatic Society, mak \g her c
as “noises off” in “Lp in Annie's
Room.” Played Shak 'ear*: (lady-
in-waiting, “Cymbeline bad
claim “How now?” in t I, scene
iv). Snapped up Potboiler
Studios, Inc., when dr r * a night-
club dance-turn she . nationally
threw away her ( ich-feather
coverings.
When the famous gossip-writer
Hippa Hadda referre' to her as
“sultry” her studio immediately
doubled her salary. Was to have
co-starred with lohi ny Ray in
“Howl We Go?” but tests showed
that her singing voice wasn’t quite
bad enough. She is an avid reader
(“True Confessions. “Police
Gazette,” “Micky M use,” Press-
cuttings).
Q.: Are there m ,n> scientific
experiments going on present in
the U.S.A. for the im movement of
films ?
A.: Oh, yes. Her studio is spend-
ing fabulous sums in an endeavor to
get a new angle on Madeline
Mango’s curves.
Q.: In your review of “The
Blood-drinkers” you wrote: “The
thing at times moves so funereally
as almost to give the impression that
it is going backwards.” I don’t
think it is possible for any film to
go backwards.
A.: No? Have a look at them
some time in the projection-room
when they’re re-winding one.
Q.: Could you let me have your
opinion of the ageing Marlene
Dietrich’s legs?
A.: For two pins I would.
Q.: In her last two films Ga Ga
Zabor has been cast as a “tiger-
woman.” Why can’t they give her
a role more suited to her talents ?
A.: It is because of the special
claws in her contract.
Q.: Please tell me what you think
of Abbott and Costello as a slapstick
comedy-team ?
A.: Would like to oblige, but
unfortunately asbestos-paper is at
present unprocurable.
Q.: I have seen quite a number
of support pictures dealing with
American gridiron football. Al-
though I have concentrated on these,
I still can’t make head or tail of
them. How do you follow them ?
A.: You don’t—you go the other
way.
Q.: Could you tell me how a
studio sets about the making of a
film ?
A.: First they buy a story and,
pred 1 Visibility that its
dot win ir any relation to that
which will appear in the film, they
immediately change the title; then
hey put on a, ter i of writers to
write from it an entirely new story.
Someth ey < 5 a icession to the
author, they ■ n one character
of the original under a different
name. The producer is in charge of
ibis and other prelii inary work.
The cast is selected by the casting-
directcr, whose job. it is to see that
all square-peg actors and actresses
are cast for round-hole roles, and
vice-versa
The director has to see that the
r> aye r e wing sir bubble-gum
re they start to speak their lines,
♦ his md •. is o rush after the
temperamental stars who bounce off
the set . implore them
oabended knees to resume.
■ The mod • 'p- .ant executive,
up man.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 10, 1954
yol 75—No. 3861
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man**
~~r ■
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521 ;
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne .
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
IN THE HAPPY ISLES
With a blue-and-silver morning clothing Sydney, and
its skyline with the Harbor shores fresh and green
from recent rains. Port Jackson, if not a flag had
been raised around it, would have formed a Royal
setting for the Queen’s entry into the Commonwealth
on the mdrning of February 3, Nothing more impres-
sive has ever been seen in the British comity of nations.
Australia has had little experience with pageantry ;
it is something which belongs to the Old World, and
which the supposedly hard-shelled realists of this
pioneering country profess to scorn. As a matter of
fact they take to it as naturally as anything else that
has color and movement. And last week they showed
a talent for it which would have filled processional
London with respect and Paris with envy.
There was a majesty about Sydney, the parent
soil of Australia, on the day the Royal Progress began
which not even New York’s gleaming skyscrapers could
match; something expressive of giant young strength
awaking to consciousness of its own stark beauty. It
seemed to typify the freshness and novelty of Aus-
tralian civilisation. The scent which greets the voyager
at Sydney Heads is still the scent of the gums and sea-
water, not, as at the gateways of older continents, that
of the effusions of marching generations of peoples
and their works which have overlaid the natural effluvia
of the earth.
The vast expanse of Mediterranean-red roofs and
towering walls, the great arch of the bridge and the
teeming crowds and vehicles could not destroy the
awareness of a stranger that Australia is still in the first
bloom of its adolescence, eager and strong and
exuberant, yet unsophisticated and clear-eyed and near
to Nature. The newcomer or even the returned native
reacts to its charm and the infection of its zest, and is
apt to feel that in merely landing here he is participating
in something which is happening for the first time on
earth. On a day like last Wednesday the enthusiasm
of the crowds was glittering in quality, far different
to the formalised demonstrations of weary cities of
Europe,
This country has had a carefree childhood and
adolescence. In its century and a half of history there
has been little to mourn, little that it is not pleasant
and exhilarating to look back on. The losses of the
First A.I.F. were heavy, but not as heavy as the
sacrifices of Great Britain and France. Those of World
War II were light by national standards. Only a
handful of Australians shared with the Queen and
her family the anxiety and peril of having bombs crash-
ing through the roofs of their homes. Beyond war-
time loss there is not much to cause a pang of regretful
remembrance —a depression or a drought or a flood
here and there. The countryside has never seen hordes
of refugees fleeing from burning homes, and the
history-books scarcely contain a paragraph about shots
fired in civil strife during 160 years. The lady whom
Governor Macquarie called “that slippery Goddess
Fortune” has indeed been good to us.
Well might the Queen and her Duke and their
entourage as they went through their experience of a
“frolic welcome” on the broad and glittering bosom of
Sydney Harbor, resounding with the cheers of an
evidently good-humored and patently prosperous
people, have repeated to themselves the lines from
Tennyson’s “Ulysses,” and felt that they had sailed
beyond the sunset and touched the Happy Isles, They
might even have been seized with the illusion, as they
passed through the ranks of the sturdy, well-clothed,
cheering crowds in the streets after they came ashore,
that they were looking out upon the heirs of the
“great Achilles” who had left the blood and struggle
of Troy aeons behind and emerged into the peace of
an Elysium.
It is a pity rulers other than our own, Malenkov in
particular, could not have been here on February 3.
From long association the symbolism of banners, of
progresses and marching men has always been
associated with war, and patriotism has been taken
for granted as something to rally a nation to a martial
call. Yet here in a quarter of the world remote from
the arming multitudes of Russia and the marching
armies of Indo-China and Korea was exhibited on
that bright sunny day the best exemplar the earth has
to offer of how a nation grows when it has never known
war on its countryside, and has never seen its dead
lying in its own streets with mothers and wives mourn-
ing over them. It demonstrated that peace has as much
use for the panoply of banners and the display of
arches and lights as victorious leaders celebrating their
triumphs or kings calling their people to arras.
ACROSS THE WIDE BROWN LAND
Australia, which as yet has not been hardened by
experience, has not yet been taught the virtues of hard
work and steady application to the task —“debtless
mean, golden competence”—and which goes to
extremes of puppy-laziness and hero-worship of jockeys
and the giants of sport, is nevertheless the world’s best
pilot-plant for demonstrating the effects of continuing
generations of peace on a country’s nature and pros-
perity. It does not need the thunder of tanks
and artillery rumbling through a Red Square to stir
up patriotism in Australians.*
In shaking hands with their Monarch Australians
are in effect shaking hands with themselves, since the
Monarchy represents the crystallisation of themselves
into a symbolic personality that speaks for them and
expresses their will in its acts. And good reason Queen
and people have to rejoice in each other.
Living Standards and Leisure
Within the last few years, quite apart from Albert
Monk’s periodical jaunts to 1.L.0. conferences at
Geneva and the pilgrimages of Communist officials to
Moscow and Vienna, numerous Australian trade-union
officials have made trips to Britain, Europe and America
to study working conditions in other countries. Unless
the dictum that travel broadens the mind does not
apply to union officials it is about time the Labor
movement in this country began to show some results
from these peregrinations. So far there is little evid enc
to suggest that the investigators have come across any-
thing in other lands that could benefit their own
members. This negative result is made the more
noticeable by the fact that the thing which impresses
most Australians who go abroad is the increased pro-
ductivitv of industry in Western Europe, in Britain and,
above all, in America.
It k true that some of the returning pilgrims have
muttered a few tXabout prSvity in the
iinifpfi State's and have asreed in a general way that
« mfght be a good aing tor Australif it we could get
increased production here. But the effect has ended
there No attempt seems to have been made by the
union officials to translate belief into action. There
is no sign of any campaign inside the unions to convince
rank-and-file members that better conditions can be
gained by improved output—and that in the long run
they can be maintained by no other means,
The most probable explanation for this is that
to start preaching greater production would be a com-
plete change of front. For decades the doctrine of the
Australian trade-union movement has been that better
living standards are something that exist of themselves
but are being withheld from the worker by the
covetousness of the employer; that they have to be
fought for to be gained. It is certainly true that better
living standards have to be fought for, but today the
principal adversary is not the boss, but the miasma of
wrong-thinking that has for too long clouded the
iudgment of trade-union leaders.
It is not surprising that the union official brought
up in this way of thought finds himself completely
befogged when confronted by the results of American
industry, achieved by methods which are the very
antithesis of his social philosophy.
The most recent example of this state of mind is
the apparent bewilderment of Laurence Short, secretary
of the Federated Ironworkers —the man who rescued
his union from Communist control. Short has expressed
the belief that the average American worker of the
future may have “all the comforts of an Australian
capitalist,” and that there seems no limit to the
standard of living that can be achieved in the United
States. As reported in “S. M. Herald,” he found that:
American workers had less leave and leisure-time
than Australians, in many instances working con-
ditions were not as good, and ruthless supervision
was imposed. However, a great many American
workers could afford a new car every year, tele-
vision-sets, washing-machines and other modern
appliances not easily obtained by the average house-
hold in AustraUa.
Yet, admitting all this. Short is still reluctant to commit
himself to any statement which could be interpreted
as an admission that the attitude of American unions
brings better results than the Australian class-war
formula. Instead, he speaks as though the mantle
of an early American political party, the Know-
Nothings, had fallen upon him. His summing-up is,
“I just don’t know who is the better off,”
If Short and his colleagues were to put the pro-
position fairly to the Australian worker, free of poli-
tical prejudice and just as a plain statement of the
relative advantages and disadvantages of the two
systems, there is little doubt what the verdict would be.
There is even less doubt about the reaction of workers’
wives.
There is no virtue in leisure for its own sake; its
value can only be assessed in a relative way in relation
to life and living. If leisure is the ultimate aim in life
some of the more fortunately-situated Pacific-islanders
have perhaps gone the furthest towards achieving it.
In return for a minimum effort on their part they have
all the food, sunlight, warmth and leisure they desire.
That’s all right so long as they are content with a
fish and fruit diet, grass-skirts and hibiscus-blossoms
and plenty of spare-time. But once the islanders find
they need pretty frocks, long pants, radios, canned
meat, comics and picture-shows they can get them only
by making inroads on their leisure time. ,
Most countries, including Australia, do not yield
even a simple living without considerable effort, and
the general standard cannot be raised by diminishing
the effort. This is qualified to some extent by human
inventiveness and the march of machinery, but the
general principle stands true.
If it is admitted —as Laurence Short, and not he
alone, admits —that Americans have less leisure than
we have, but that they work harder and have more
motor-cars, refrigerators, washing-machines and other
amenities than we Australians can afford, surely the
answer is that if we play less and work harder we’ll
have those things, too. The leaders of _ industrial
“Labor” can do a great job for their unions, their
members and for Australia if they can scrap their
prejudices and get this fact through to those who look
to them for guidance.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Molotov's Modest Plan
The outcome of the Berlin conference
can scarcely be called a disappointment,
since few expected anything fruitful to
arise from it.
Its real culmination —whatever may
happen in the way of anticlimax —was
the postulation by Molotov of a series
of proposals for making peace with
Germany. These, as usual, were devised
with cold cunning and propounded with
soft speciousness to make the apparently
generous parts appear more generous and
the bars to realisation as obscure and as
little comprehensible as possible to the
man-in-the-street. Thus many reading
will have a feeling that the West is being
unduly difficult when peace seems to be
so easily within reach.
Independence for Germany united —of
course Comrade Molotov will concede it.
Free elections “with wide participation of
democratic organisations”—most cer-
tainly. The new united Germany to act
as the nation during the negotiation of
the peace treaty—indubitably. Nothing
is too much for the democrats of the
Kremlin, except one thing—Germany
reborn must not be involved in “coali-
tions or military alliances against any
Power which took part in the war
against Hitler.” This sounds, at first
glimpse, almost reasonable until its mean-
ing is taken in. It means simply that
Germany must remain isolated from the
defence of Western Europe, utterly at the
mercy of the Russian hordes massed in
Poland and Czechoslovakia, and operat-
ing with a vast Red-ant organisation
created in East Germany which would
certainly swarm west at the first chance
and honeycomb the industrial districts of
the Ruhr, using them as a base for a
new cold war across the Rhine into
France and into Italy. The Western
Allies must not defend Germany, for
their forces under the arrangement must
be withdrawn.
The whole cold-blooded business was
opened up with a polite and almost genial
suavity novel to Soviet method, and in
time to a plausible approach to the
French through the Communist cells of
Paris, which are preaching that the new
plan would destroy for ever the danger
to France of united German power. It
was coincident with the offer of a flood
of business to the United Kingdom and
a statement by the Soviet Foreign Trade
Minister, Comrade Ivan Kabanov, that
the Soviet Union is prepared to buy
£4OO-million-worth of British ships,
machinery, tools and other goods—all,
incidentally, vital to war and, if modern,
useful as prototypes for Soviet industry.
So genial is the whole atmosphere
created by the Soviet Union that it was
hard to believe that 600,000 United
Nations’ troops are needed to stand at
the ready in Korea to keep back the
Chinese and North Koreans armed,
trained and ordered by the U.S.S.R. and
that the French in Indo-China were, at
the very moment the proposal was made,
falling back and, with 250,000 men,
unable to hold the Vietminh forces, who
would only be an Asiatic rabble were it
not for Soviet Union backing, training
and planning.
As Mr. Dulles pointed out, the Rus-
sian plan for Germany is impossible,
since if Germany is exposed in the way
the plan proposes, the whole of western
Europe will be equally exposed.
Allied statesmen must be cursing the
weakness which allowed them to destroy
the cohesion of Germany and put the
power to keep Europe in a state of dis-
ruption in the hands of the Kremlin.
The world is paying the price of the
inexperienced sentimentality of the U.S.
State Department and Press which domi-
nated the conditions under which the
war was ended.
Policy for the North
“In the ACT”: There was a sprinkling
of politicians among the Institute of Poli-
tical Science Summer-school delegates
who spent three days in Canberra discuss-
ing most, although not all, of the pro-
blems of northern Australia. They should
take back to their respective Govern-
ments some forceful arguments on the
need for action. The Governor-General,
who opened proceedings, spoke more as
a field-marshal when he talked of the
1200 million pairs of eyes looking south
hungrily for land, and added that there
were only 100,000 Australians in a
million square miles of our north. There
were occasional references to defence by
speakers later, but mostly it was agreed
that the best demonstration to Asia
would be through effective moves for
more settlement and development
of the area. The proposals ranged
from complete tax-exemption and rail-
way-extensions the extension from
Dajarra to Newcastle Waters was gener-
ally favored as the first step—to R.A.A.F.
bombing of the channel-country to pro-
vide cheap craters for water-storage.
There was pretty general agreement that
oil, uranium and other minerals, while
important incentives for securing popu-
lation and amenities, would never replace
the pastoral industry as the backbone
of the north. Around this theme speakers
talked on rail and air transport, on
administration and politics, on the social
problems, on the White Australia policy
and on ways of luring overseas capital,
but made only occasional references to
the main headache —the existing leases
and land-tenure and security.
Throughout all the discussions the
name of Vesteys was never mentioned,
although the chairman did say that one
group of overseas interests controlled 20
million acres, or 12 per cent, of the total
area of the north. Yet in the preceding
two weeks the new head of that great
concern had been engaged in unpubli-
cised discussions with Ministers on the
future of those leases, with the low return
being stressed on one side and lack of
development being deplored on the other.
Both parties to these talks could do worse
than study the constructive approach to
the territory’s difficulties in the addresses
at the school and in the discussions which
followed each of them. (The daily-news-
paper coverage, of course, was meagre,
but the institute is to publish a book with
the full texts.)
Another group which might benefit
from similar study is that comprising
those sentimental clergymen and others
who have been urging the permanent
admission of some of our colored neigh-
bors (the land-hungry gentry mentioned
by Sir William Slim). Speakers at the
school faced quite honestly the problem
of labor shortage now and in the future,
but they considered that admission of
Asians would solve neither that difficulty
nor the overcrowding in Asia, and
would create other and immeasurable
ones for Australia. Dr. Grenfell Price,
highly critical of the past treatment of
aborigines (in remarks which will doubt-
less be quoted in Asia), said that a
colored population in the north would
menace Australian defence, land-occu-
pancy in the south, health and living
standards, adding that “a first-hand
examination of the negro problem in the
American tropics has convinced me of
the wisdom of the Payne-Fletcher con-
clusion that the White Australia policy
must remain inviolate.” Dr. C. E. Cook,
ex-medical-chief at Darwin, underlined
this warning by pointing out that while
whites could live healthily in tropical
areas clear of endemic tropical diseases,
the introduction of colored races would
bring those diseases, “and no practical
quarantine would be possible.”
The Police and the Crowds
The collapse and death of Inspector M.
T. O’Neill while directing police to duty
outside N. S. Wales Parliament House
on Thursday must have reminded all
Sydney of the splendid though arduous
work done by the police in the first week
of the Queen’s visit.
All the way from the early hours of
last Wednesday morning the onus of
directing unprecedented traffic and record
crowds in Sydney was placed on the
police. They even got the blame from
those sections of the Press which vamped
up scare stories about the probable im-
possibility of seeing the arrival, the
landing, and the procession unless one
literally camped on the spot the night
before. In the end there was plenty of
room for everybody, though some stayed
away because of the unwarranted
“warnings.”
But though there was room for every-
body the fact remains that the crowds on
that first day totalled well over a million,
and every day and every night since many
thousands have congregated wherever the
Queen was likely to pass. In their man-
agement of both the vehicular and pedes-
trian traffic the N. S. Wales police have
done a magnificent job. The inevitable
complaints from less-tolerant members
of the public can be dismissed.
Many police had been brought from
the country for this special duty. Many
of them were on duty for very long hours
at a stretch in the February heat, and
frequently many of them had only an
hour or so break before turning out again,
as well as standing by in readiness for
emergencies.
Put it to their credit that their courtesy
and tolerance remained practically un-
ruffled throughout the whole trying period.
Put it also to the credit of the crowds.
both afoot and awheel, that they, too,
were tolerant and good-humored. Even
in the worst jams there always seemed to
be some happy individual with a quip
or a sardonic comment that dissolved
awkward situations into laughter.
All in all, it was a tribute to the Queen
and to the essential quality of citizens and
police that things went off so well.
Splendor and Superlatives
Apart from the main business of catching
a view of the Queen and her Duke, Sydney
found many minor entertainments in the
first week of the Royal visit. There was
what might be called the sartorial search.
This revealed, for example, that at “The
Landing” Federal Ministers wore toppers
and morning coats and State Ministers
Homburg hats (except Evatt minor, who
carried one). One eagle-eyed scribe swears
he detected white socks on one politician.
The “Labor”-controlled Sydney City
Council, inspired by the Homburgs, shook
the moths out of the civic robes in an
endeavor to outshine the worthies of
Hamelin’s town in Brunswick in alder-
manic splendor. The two Communist
aldermen donned their gowns and made
their bows with the rest, presumably hav-
ing received a dispensation from the
Kremlin.
First-prize in the schemozzle section
went to the ex-servicemen’s reception in
Hyde Park, where, apart from the small
official party, not one per cent, of those
who turned up seemed to have any idea
of what was intended. Admission was
allegedly by service-medals, but some
elderly ladies there must have lost theirs
round about the Crimean period, and
there were also lots of unattended children
who might qualify in time for the Third
or Fourth World War.
Most pushful crowd of the week was
the outsize one in Broadway and
Parramatta-road on Friday afternoon;
most stareful the smaller one at the Civic
Ball. Happiest family should have been
the Kellys, whose horse Blue Ocean won
the Queen’s race at Randwick, and the
proudest group was undoubtedly the surf-
camival people, whose show beguiled the
Royal couple into staying at Bondi 40
minutes beyond the scheduled time.
Th award for the rudest and most
thoughtless rubbernecks went to the
motorists who parked near Government
House on her Majesty’s first afternoon
off, in the hope of tailing the royal couple
if they tried to slip out for a quiet drive,
free of staring crowds.
And, of course, the most bemused, most
bedazzled, most hypnotised and most
envied man in New South Wales was, and
is. Premier Cahill.
Danger in Indo-China
The position in Indo-China is becom-
ing more and more serious.
The new French command, with more
authority than the old, soon began to
lay emphasis on mobility, abandoning
Nasam and cutting down strength at
places like Luang Prabang and Laos,
which have political but not necessarily
military importance. This late last year
enabled the expansion in number of offen-
sive groups in the Red River Delta from
three to seven and the gathering-together
of large bodies of troops for offensive
action against Cochin-China. Just when
this policy really seemed to be paying
dividends and Vietminh showed signs
of withdrawal, the enemy suddenly
struck at Dien Bien Phu, intended to be
a secure base for offensive operations
by the French. The French were com-
pletely caught napping when the Viet-
minh forces —316th Division, followed
in order by the 312th and the anti-air-
craft and artillery regiments of the 351st
heavy-weapons divisions (so far never
committed to action), came west from the
Delta and sat down before Dien Bien
Phu, a bowl ten miles long by four miles
wide entirely surrounded by jungle-
covered hills defended by 13 battalions
—Foreign Legion, paratroopers, North
Africans and two weaker Thai battalions,
plus ten batteries of artillery and some
tanks brought in by Bristol freighters and
assembled on the spot. Seven of the
battalions are mobile. The command is
certain that even if it loses some of the
positions on the low hills where the static
battalions are dug in with good fields of
fire they can be recovered by counter-
attack. ITie position seems very strong
—too strong for anything except staged
attack headed by a heavy artillery con-
centration. But the Vietminh, obviously
ready for fight, were reinforcing in the
last weeks of January and appeared
likely to have 30 battalions to play with
by the end of die month ; but when that
prophecy came true they detached a
division from the perimeter and set it
hell-bent for the Laos capital, Luang
Prabang, at the same time infiltrating
new areas farther south along the
Mekong, border of Siam.
Fighting on the Hue coast and in
middle Laos has never really been of
moment —the French have over 20
battalions to the enemy’s seven.
The real danger lies in the Red River
Delta, the supposed stronghold of the
French, who appear to have been com-
pletely deceived by the action of Vietminh
in withdrawing all divisions except the
320th from round the delta perimeter.
It was suddenly discovered that Ho Chi-
minh’s command had been sedulously
raising local battalions throughout the
summer and that these were active in the
delta itself, which is said to have become
thoroughly infiltrated. Thus Hanoi is
about the only secure French point left.
And, worse than all, the French have
fallen back, in trying to deal with this
situation, into their old unhappy state of
having almost exhausted their reserves.
They have committed the blunder of
tying up 25 French Union battalions in
their futile landing north of Nha Trang;
and all that can be deduced from the
present position is that they are trying
to establish a politically sound military
distribution which would be of advantage
in negotiation for peace. There have
been strong rumors for weeks that negoti-
ations are in progress, or about to begin
secretly, between the French and
Vietminh, Coupled with this M. de
Chevinge, French Secretary for War,
reached Saigon on February 2, apparently
to agree with the Emperor Bao-Dai on a
date for a conference in Paris to
negotiate complete independence within
the French Union for Indo-China.
With summer rains due, trench war-
fare in the static positions of Dien Bien
Phu will be almost intolerable, and con-
ditions may draw the French there into
the open, to fight with an enemy having
all the advantage in strength and cover
and mobility. The whole French hold on
Vietnam is in very serious jeopardy, and
it is the opinion of a very competent
observer who recently has been in the
area that if Ho Chi-minh picks his
moment to talk peace, “the fat will really
be in the fire for Siam, Malaya and the
rest of S.-East Asia.” This should be
Ho’s chance—possibly his last. For time
is a sound French weapon if they can
use it, since the training of Vietnam
troops will release another 50 battalions
for offensive use on the French side by
next October.
On the other hand there is little doubt
how far China and Moscow are behind
the whole business and what their reac-
tions may be if they see Vietminh failing.
A distinguished Australian correspondent,
Denis Warner, who represents the
London “Daily Telegraph” in the Far
East, believes that he has established
beyond doubt that Vietminh has sent
selected troops to South China for air-
force training.
Macquarie-street Vignette
“Ek Dum’s” picture:
It is Thursday, February 4, before Austra-
lia’s first Parliament House, which has been
the scene already of many a development m
our constitutional institutions. There the
judges’ chambers were established in 1814;
there W. C. Wentworth dwelt with his father,
the surgeon; there the first Legislative Council
met in 1825; there the Bank of N. S. Wales
was founded in 1816-17; thence Wentworth
went forth on his missio.n to England to secure
responsible government; there Parliamentary
government was born just on a century ago;
there Parkes and Reid, Robertson and Dailey
contended with the forces of wicked Govern-
ments or Oppositions, and thence came
Barton to become Australia’s first Prune
Minister. Behind the crowds over on the foot-
path opposite once stood Burdekin House,
where he and his Cabinet were wont to fortity
themselves with a breakfast-rum before their
early meetings. ,
The sun is hot. The crowd has become thicK.
The girls hold newspapers over their heads.
On dizzy pinnacles along the lines of medica
buildings cameramen crawl like ants looking
for vantage-points. , .
The R.A.A.F. Color Guard and band come
into position, haunted by a mangy terrier, lue
police escort on its lithe and shining horse
jingles northward harassed by a sheep-dog
bitzer. Both pooches get an ovation.
Within the Houses division-bells ring
out with an unaccustomed clangor tmu
reaches far down the street. The President i
the Council, the Speaker in the Assembly ta
their chairs. They have abandoned then n
“Labor” principles—they are in wig and gown.
The proclamation convening Parliament is r
aloud, and it is a pleasure, as it is all throug ,
to hear the clarity and poise of the om
voices, so strange and unfamiliar in tne
roundings in which the yawp of anger and me
squeal of abuse have become more no ™ a _v
It is all rather moving to the crowd, iney
are very quiet during the prayer and wn
Then the guns —their muffled note roDs
the street vibrating the arches, and causes
stir of excitement following the titter w
rises as (by courtesy of A.8.C.) the ■ "
are allowed to listen to Black Rod kn
(Continued on next page)


peremptorily three times on the closed door of
the Assembly Chamber to summon the Lower
House to the presence.
The Lower House members file out into the
courtyard to let their masters inspect them on
their way. They go two and two, just as if the
Flood had arrived, with the mien of men who
know that they are both good and handsome.
Nobody cheers. Scarcely anybody notices
them, for eyes are bent firmly northward
toward Government House gates.
Here come from the Council to greet the
Queen the President, two Ministers, Messrs.
Downing and Buckley, trying to look like
dukes with the Council officers all preceded
by the peremptory Black Rod. A carriage
arrives with a lone figure—the Queen’s private
secretary. And then, with a patter of hooves,
the escort rides forward on its lively, long-
tailed horses, wearing the mounted-police uni-
form, and here are the Queen and the Duke
in an open motor landaulette, seeming to
materialise in, rather than drive into, the scene,
their coming is so soft and so silent against
the background of cheers rolling down the
footpaths and the faces of the buildings.
She is the very vision splendid and delicate
of a fairy princess that the crowd wants her
to be, a pale flush in the tints of her dream
costume, the blue of her Garter ribbon a splash
of color. The jewels in her tiara and her
gleaming necklace are truly Royal. Her eyes
are very blue, her hair very bright. She is
so much something out of another world, her
husband so tall and both so young and so
gallant, that the crowd ceases to cheer; it only
gasps and stands with open mouths as they
alight. The Royal Salute sends its resonant
notes down the street. She steps forward to
meet the awkward bows of officialdom before
tripping up the steps to the Council portal with
a gay dignity that rather tries the pace of her
Ministers in their unaccustomed finery.
One is scarcely prepared after this faery
spectacle for the authoritative voice which
presently issues from the Council Chamber as
she reads her simple and formal speech, one
which departs from usual N. S. Wales speeches
from the Throne in that it says nothing of
programmes to come, but is merely a gesture
of Royal authority.
The proceedings have the dignified simplicity
of a religious ceremony, fitting perhaps to the
circumstances; fitting to the moment of con-
summation of full sovereign stature of govern-
ment as, on the spot on which Mason Bradley
and his convicts and bullock-team ploughed
the foundations for Wentworth and his fellow-
patriots to dream above in the little town of
less than 10,000 people which was Sydney
130 years ago, a monarch opened an Australian
Parliament for the first time in history.
It seems to be all over in a minute. The
young and lovely vision, with her handsome
Duke, are once more on the porch before
they drive away. The crowd has a better view
of them now, and there is something pathetic
in her air of youth, so completely sacrificed
to unending duty, as she turns her face to the
cheering ribbon of faces. But she is gone
before you have time to reflect about it. The
crowd seems to wake from a dream. It cheers
loudly and floods the roadway behind her.
The girls who have been sheltering under
newspapers throw them to the trampled foot-
path to join yesterday’s detritus. There is a
scramble towards some vantage-point where
next she may appear.
Soon naught is left of the historic occasion
but footpaths more thickly strewn than before
with the untidy spoor of the worshippers of
Royalty and the tail-end of a crocodile of the
new and agile Parliamentary society hastening
with all speed towards the House dining-room.
There tea and sandwiches are being served—
freel
POLITICAL POINTS
In Sydney the political truce is so thick
at present that you couldn’t cut it with a
royal commission.
• •
In spite of his many cheer-leaders-by-
invitation. Premier Cahill was greeted
with an awkward silence as he stepped
from his launch to the pontoon shortly
before the Royal landing. Menzies and
Dame Pattie Maie, who followed him,
were warmly applauded.
The roar of cheering that filled Farm
Cove as the Royal couple arrived was
something the like of which few present
had ever heard before. It was a magnifi-
cent show that was put on by Sydney—
weather, harborcraft, people and all —a
fact unreservedly acknowledged to The
Bulletin by such independent authori-
ties as Mcßride (S.A.), MeEwen (Vic.),
and Francis (Q.).
• •
An indignant old soldier rang The
Bulletin at 3 p.m. last Friday, his voice
a little thick, and proceeded to damn
that morning’s Hyde Park servicemen’s
review—a complete schemozzle —as “a
triumph of disorganisation.” Another old
soldier wouldn’t have it. “No disorganisa-
tion at all,” he insisted. “Just normal
Army organisation.”
• •
Cahill may have been within the bounds
of protocol in omitting the Prime Minister
from the invitation-list of the State Dinner
while including the Leader of the Federal
Opposition, but as Menzies was in Sydney
it would have been no more than common
courtesy to invite him. But, of course,
for the moment Cahill has completely
lost the common touch.
• •
Comrades Wright and Maxwell, Com-
munist aldermen of Sydney City Council,
are likely to be found guilty by Moscow
of deviationist tendencies and bourgeois
activities. At the Royal Ball on Friday
night both turned up in dinner-jacket and
black tie.
• •
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” on arrival
day:
The Queen’s introduction to Australia
today will be a 91-mile drive through some
of the nation’s most dingy and ancient
near-slum areas. She will not see the
beautiful harborside suburbs which over-
seas visitors regard as one of the finest
sights in the world.
The Queen must have seen the “beauti-
ful harbor-side suburbs” as the Gothic
steamed the two miles or so from Sydney
Heads to her first anchorage; in the 9j-
mile city drive she could not have seen
more than li miles which could even
remotely be called slums. But then the
Queen wasn’t looking for slums, she
knew what critics like this didn’t know —
that the tour was not to show her the
city, but to show over a million people
their Queen.
• •
Give Sydney and its decorators their
due. The city has never before looked
so gay.
• •
Queensland Minister for Agriculture
Collins said that tea-growing tests in the
South Johnstone area gave “promise of
success.” Since S.J. is already a sugar-
growing area, the establishment of tea
could mean half the public-service offices
in Australia being transferred there.
Think of the saving in having tea and
sugar right at the office door!
• •
Tatt.’s will open for business in Mel-
bourne in three months if no further legal
obstacles arise out of the Tasmanian
Supreme Court case. In his judgment
Mr. Justice Green said Tattersall’s was
an Australian business, not a Tasmanian,
and George Adams’s trustees had been
armed with the fullest and most absolute
powers and had complete discretion to
conduct their lottery in Tasmania and
elsewhere. He didn’t say whether the
Apple Island was losing a curse or a
blessing.
• •
Brightest quip of the week. The
comment made by Andrea Leeds’s
husband on hearing she had been included
in the list of Jimmy Roosevelt’s alleged
misconductresses: “I didn’t know you
were a Democrat.”
• •
Whatever Molotov says in Berlin or
elsewhere nothing can disguise the fact
that Moscow does not want free elections
in East Germany because of the certain
knowledge that a free vote would go
against the Soviet’s puppet Government.
Russia’s suggestion that both sides
should withdraw occupation forces before
any elections are held has been made
before. Like many Soviet suggestions,
it sounds fair, but is quite one-sided. It
would mean British and American troops
quitting the continent, while the Red
iFRSffIR. [
l fIRKSPE J
"GOING SOME PLACE, SAM?”
Army merely stepped back a few miles
into Poland.
• •
Professor H. J. Wilkinson, of Queens-
land, says that witchety-grubs cooked in
coals taste like fried eggs, and lizard
and snake treated the same way taste like
whiting. This sort of thing should be
kept secret or the grubs, lizards and
snakes may find themselves controlled
by egg and/or fish boards.
• •
Dr. Grenfell Price, Master of St.
St. Mark’s at Adelaide University, and a
Federal Parliament “oncer” of 1940 vin-
tage, startled the Institute of Political
Science summer school by producing
comparative figures of drunkenness for
the Northern Territory and the eastern
States. He admitted that in the “social
failings” of drunkenness and serious
crime and in illegitimacy the NT.
presented the worst picture in Australia,
but pointed out that climate was not the
reason, because Queensland had a better
record than N. S. Wales. His drunkenness
figures showed a startling rise everywhere
from the 1927-31 period to the 1947-51
years. In the NT. the drunkenness con-
victions per 10,000 of population in the
latter period were 428 (only 294 in 1927-
31), compared with 248 (136) in N. S.
Wales, 86 (37) in Vic., and only 21 (14) in
Tassy. The overall figure for Australia
was 165 in 1947-51 ; only 83 in 1927-31.
Dr. Price wants a scientific and detailed
examination of Australian social statistics
regardless of Commonwealth or State
divisions, to see if “social sub-normality
is widespread over various regions or
confined to certain plague-spots such as
large cities.”
• •
Federal “Labor” cainpaign-directors
are casting hopeful eyes in the direction
of Wide Bay (Q.), the seat Bernard
Corser will be vacating at the end of the
present Parliament. They base their
hopes on the belief that a large slice of
Corser’s 5558 majority at the last election
represented a personal vote which won’t
necessarily be transferred to another
Country-party candidate. Selection of
“Labor’s” contender will probably be
deferred until the Country party chooses
its man at the end of next week.
• •
“New Guard at Government House
Today,” read a newspaper heading on
Friday. J, T. Lang, writing his memoirs
for “Truth,” must have wondered for a
moment when he read it.
In Adelaide they’re arguing over the
best way to commemorate a Royal visit
—give schoolkids a medal or let ’em plant
a tree. “Tree Lover” wrote to the
“ Tiser” asking “what more fitting than
a living tree, that will grow with the
years.... ..and remain as a lasting monu-
ment for all to see, costing no more than
a useless trinket, etc...,.. ” This brought
a response from a medal-lover who is
still in possession of an Edward VII
Coronation medal, struck in 1902. Says
she: “If that had been a tree the powers-
that-be would probably have had it de-
stroyed by now.” It’s impossible to please
everyone, but perhaps the South Aus-
tralian authorities could compromise by
letting the youngsters take their pick—
trees on the left, trinkets on the right.
• •
Kent Hughes, who learnt his politics in
the tough hurly-burly of Vic. Legislative
Assembly as offsider to Stanley Argyle
and at grips with tacticians like Dunstan
and Tunnecliffe, gave Evatt and Co. a
body-blow at Ballarat —one the Libs
should set out in large type in all their
propaganda. Nothing will hurt the
“Labor” boys more than to be told they’ll
be barefaced imposters if they celebrate
the centenary of the Eureka Stockade, at
which miners fought for freedom to work
without first having to buy a licence.
Kent Hughes cited the compulsory-
unionism policy, the Gag-the-Press Act of
N.S.W. and the defiance of the Arbitra-
tion Court by “Labor” leaders as proof
of the party’s current totalitarianism.
“Who will protect a man from a bad
union official?” he asked. A lot of
workers are asking the same question.
• •
It was most appropriate that the log-
rolling arch should be in front of Sydney
Parliament House.
• •
McColm, Lib. M.H.R. for Bowman
(Q.), at the Canberra school of the
Institute of Political Science: “I have
always wondered why we have not grown
rice in northern Queensland. I have
found it is because of an agreement
between the N.S.W. and Queensland
Governments to the effect that Queens-
land will not grow rice on a commercial
scale if N S. Wales does not extend her
sugar-cane growing industry.” Welly
nice!
• •
R. G. Casey, as well as looking after
foreign affairs and gaining Press plaudits
for his dapper appearance on landing
pontoons, is also Minister in charge of
the C.5.1.R.0., and he has a theory,
seemingly supported by the dates of
most flying-saucer reports, that the
“saucers” are part of the meteor-streams
through which the earth passes at cer-
tain times each year. The meteor-streams
are also connected with C.5.1.R.0.
scientist Ted Bowen’s ideas on rain-
making, which perhaps turned engineer
Casey’s thoughts in the same direction.
• •
Prognostication department. A severe
tremor will shake New South Wales on
February 18. No need for panic. It will
merely be Cahill coming back to earth.
CAH-AH-AH-AH-ILL
They see him here, they see him there,
They see the beggar everywhere!
From Sydney Cove to Broken Hell
That inclusive Pimpernel !


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
'T'HE boss overheard this on the Mos-
■*- man ferry, so it must be true. Joan
to Jane: “What’s all this ‘E’ and ‘R’
business up round Sydney? I thought
his name was Philip.”—“M.”
“Macnell”: In the windless comfort of
my armchair I listened to the A.B.C.
man, way out on the stormy Tasman,
describing the turn-over by Black Prince
to the Australian squadron ; earlier, there
had been newspaper headlines of the
“CYCLONE” into which Royal Gothic
was steaming. But it seems the Navy’s
idea of a cyclone differs a bit from that
of newspaper editors. For, through the
A.B.C. man’s eyes, I saw,
not only carrier Ven-
geance, but frigate
Quadrant, steam up, put
their wheels over and
take up escort-forma-
tion—with the sides of
both ships manned by
their companies! Some
cyclone, if a frigate could
allow one man on deck,
let alone a couple of
hundred to line her low-
hung rails.
• • • '•
“Jen”: One financial
institution in Sydney
used aboriginal motifs
in its Royal-visit decora-
tions. Very effective,
too, and, to the mind of
one of its staff, most
appropriate. His com-
ment : “Abos outside
and galahs inside.”
“Craiser”: The Queen,
having to shake some
225 Australian hands on
her arrival in Sydney,
could congratulate her-
self that she didn’t get
the old Roman hand-
shake, I don’t know
whether the ancient Romans actually
shook hands in this way, but they always
do it in the pictures. Instead of squeezing
one another’s fingers, all the personages in
“The Robe” took a firm grasp of one
another’s arms below the elbow; some,
I noticed, grabbed the tender bit of skin
and nerves and tissues above it and
nearly wrenched the arm off. A shake
of that sort would be a dangerous privi-
lege to give some of Sydney’s patriotic
Labor councillors and politicians.
“X.S.”: A film the Queen and Duke
saw in New Zealand has been criticised
as being in very poor taste, but what
about those sets of red, white and blue
balls set up by the hundreds in Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne? Are they to under-
line (a) the borrowing propensities of
Australian Governments or ( b )
Napoleon’s remark that the English were
the pawnbrokers of Europe?
“Beg pardon, Madam —cook says there'll be no pudding unless double-
time and long-service leave is granted .”
“Mac Hoots”: By taking-over the
Sydney “Sun,” the “Herald” might at
last have solved the awful problem of
how to be right about art; for its morn-
ing critic headed his criticism last week
“Less Impact in Dobell’s Paintings,” and
its afternoon critic countered with
“Dobell’s Power Increasing”; and as
long as Mr. Haefliger and Mr. Gleason
continue to say the opposite to each
other I don’t see how the “Sun-Herald”
combine can possibly go wrong.
*
“Melbn”: Another bit of old Mel-
bourne went under the hammer when the
Temple Court Hotel on the corner of
Queen-street and Little Collins-street was
sold to the Ajax Insurance Co. for the
purposes of a limit-height building. Few
people realise the architectural quality
of these old hostelries because of the en-
vironment they are seen in. If, instead
of being demolished, the Temple Court
were removed and re-erected in parklike
surroundings it would be one of the
“How much FURTHER to this ‘ lovers' lagoon '?”
stately homes of Melbourne. This was
done with Captain Cook’s cotage, but
shifting the Court would cost a lot more
money.
♦♦♦ *;«
“C.R.”: The new P, & O. liner Iberia,
scheduled to reach Australia with 1400
passengers next September, is the second
ship of that name in the company’s 5
Australian trade, which goes back
a hundred years. The first Iberia was
trooping in Australia’s first war: in
March, 1885, with the Australasian, she
carried the New South Wales Sudan Con-
tingent to Suakin.
♦> * *
“E.D.T.”: There were about 20 pas-
sengers on the Melbourne tram ; opposite
me a well-dressed woman with greying
hair but a schoolgirl complexion. She
glanced out of the window, then jumped
to her feet and tugged the bell-cord. The
tram jarred to a stop in its own length.
The driver appeared, to see the woman
hurrying towards the exit. “What d’you
mean by giving me the emergency signal
like that?” he demanded, red with
anger. “A man ought to report you!”
Some of the jolted passengers added their
comments; then the woman had her say.
“Shut up!” she snapped. “Run back and
attend to the conductor who fell off your
damn’ tram! He looks as if he’s badly
hurt!” The driver glanced back at the
figure lying on the road, and I never
saw an expression on a human face alter
so quickly. At the time there seemed
something queer about the business, but
I didn’t realise what it was until a few
days later—the woman who gave the
alarm-signal had acted silently. Most of
her sex find it necessary to give a loud
scream as an indispensable preliminary
action. y
* *
“Pip Tok”: Accidental namesakes
(B. 6/1/’54)? Even Winston Churchill
had one, an American, who was also a
writer and historian. The American
Winston was the author of Richard
Carvel and other novels covering periods
of American history, which enjoyed wide
popularity on both sides of the Atlantic
and in Australia when the century was
young. Incidents of the Royal tour
remind me that there were also two Sir
Walter Raleighs—the hero of the cloak-
episode, and the distinguished scholar
and man of letters who became Professor
of English Literature at Oxford; his last
publication, the first volume of the
Official History of the War in the Air,
1914-1918 } was published just before his
death in 1922.
♦♦♦ * *:♦
“A.E.S.”: Rolling eyes (B. 20/l/’54)?
It is remarkable what eyes can express:
excitement, fear, love, hate. Wonderful,
too, that each person’s eyes are unique.
Once on a crowded tram, through a chink
formed by arms, heads and hats, I saw
a single eye at the far end of the car—
and recognised it. No one, not even the
chameleon (which can look n.-w. with
one eye and s,-e, with the other simul-
taneously), nor Rudolph Valentino him-
self, could do more with his eyes than
George Meredith’s heroines, but Vic-
torian writers hold no monopoly. In a
contemporary novel, the heroine’s “whole
being rushed into her eyes, and hung
there, staring.” Enough to put a bloke
on the wagon for weeks.
* ♦> *
“Peel Isle”: An overworked country-
hospital matron, home on the first night
of well-earned leave, was sleeping like
the dead. During the small hours her
elderly mother was taken ill. After
unavailingly calling her sleeping daughter,
Mum had an inspiration. Wobbling to
the bedroom door, she said plaintively,
“Matron! ” Matron was out of bed and
half-way across the room before her
eyes opened.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Doremus”: Our canteen’s match-
stocks came from India ; “Horse’s Head
was a favorite brand, with its box
illustrated accordingly. Because of the
prevailing shortage, only a speck of the
dark stuff tipped the match-head, which
for the next half-inch had a more-than-
liberal coating of sulphur. When light-
ing-up, not even a leather-lunged bul-
locky was immune to the fumes, but
we soon learnt the proper drill—strike
the stinkers well away down-wind and
let the sulphur burn off first. Came
Pearl Harbor, and our first Yank blew-m
for tucker. Having pushed round a
packet of fags he called for a match,
and Tarzan quietly handed him a box
of our usual brand. When he had
finished coughing, regained his natura
color and mopped off the sweat, the
Yank looked long and thoughtfully a
the box and opined, “Looks to me as
though they’ve drawn the wrong end o
the horse.”
A CITY IS LIKE THIS
(1)
A city is like this :
You can walk a week
And never encounter the face
You love, and seek,
Or catch the voice of greeting
You need to hear
Too muffled by clangor from
The listening ear.
You may sit in an empty room
Day after day, alone.
Linked thinly to absence by
A silent telephone.
In places you might expect
The quarry to be found
Are only strangers crowding
And idle sound.
You will, mistaken, speak
A dozen times or more
To faces resembling one face
But never seen before.
And how explain your hand
Outstretched, or apologise
For the too-evident shutter
Closed on your eyes?
Yet, even in this city,
In some inimical place
Within a stone square mile,
Face must confront face.
But a city is like this:
After the search, the strain,
N.S.W.
Though two most close embrace
They shall not meet again.
(2)
Quiet, to noisy streets,
The symbol-people come;
Patient, to wait chance meetings.;
They cannot stay at home.
Impelled by some dark force
They all travelled down
From their unknown houses
To the black town.
On Park-street corner
I saw the tall grey woman
Of fifteen years ago.
She moved her blank inhuman
Eyes to meet my own
By no volition.
Her dead eyes froze my gaze
Without recognition.
The grizzled lame man that once
I saw each day
Limped at my side in Pitt-street
But did not glance my way.
Those odd and ugly twin-sisters
Minced by—looking the same
As when I was ten years old.
I do not know their name.
Or the name of the man or the grey
woman;
Uncalled they came for me
Foreboding something or nothing
To happen presently.
NANCY KEESING.


T>RISBANE has been discussing a pro-
posal to add an “e” to the Ann in
its Aim-street before the Royal visit in
order to do honor to little Princess Anne
and justice to the Queen Anne for whom
the street was apparently named. It is
to be hoped the change, if made, will not
give rise to such unpleasantries as were
encountered by Addison’s Sir Roger de
Coverley when, as a boy, he endeavored
“Women are finicky, aren’t they?"
to find his way to a similarly-named
London thoroughfare:
This worthy knight, being then but a
stripling, had occasion to inquire which
was the way to St. Anne’s Lane, upon
which the person whom he spoke to,
instead of answering his question, called
him a young Popish cur, and asked him
next he met, which was the way to Anne’s
Lane; but was called a prick-eared cur for
wlyfwas “id Tha?fhe of had°ieeSTsaS
before he was born, and would be one
after he was hanged.
Young Sir Roger took no more risks, but
jftnally reached his objective by going
into every lane he came to and asking
the name of it. —“Becks.”
“Bull Oak”: How is it that you Aus-
tralians are still sticking to the barbarous
costume of the Old Country
in this totally opposite climate?
Why do you wear dark, heavy,
tight clothes in your swelter-
ing summer? Why don’t you
emulate your women, who have
the sense to wear light clothing
and very little of it? In a trek
through the city on a recent
heat-wave Saturday morning, I
counted more men in coats than
without them. Most of the
outfits were two-piece business suits;
a few sufferers were in three-piece
suits. The tally was astonishing.
When I got home my tweed coat
was quite ruined at the armpits with
perspiration.'
“Kelvin”: My wife records a personal
and painful instance of real-life coincid-
ence which I reckon more astounding
than any employed by “Bo’s” back-room
boys of the oil companies who have
simultaneously hit upon a form of miracu-
lous anti-wear engine-oil (B. 20/1/’54).
Twenty years ago, fellow-passenger on a
Torres Straits patrol-boat with an official
bigwig on whom she was anxious to make
a good impression, she was reduced to
such an abject state of seasickness that,
uncaringly and gratefully, she accepted
the offer of a receptacle from the official.
A few months ago, in the throes of air-
sickness, she was again grateful for the
timely furnishing of a similarly-designed
utensil at the hands of a chivalrous fel-
low-passenger —none other than the
official big noise in Torres Straits! They
had not met in the intervening two
decades, the scenes of the encounters
were some 2000 miles removed, and
neither knew of the other’s presence in
the airliner.
♦> * ❖
“Teeperce”: That yoshiwara ditty
warbled under the impression that it
was the Japanese national anthem (B.
20/1 1 ’54) reminds me of when, bivouacked
in Queensland after return from the
M.E., and waiting shipment to New
Guinea, we were intrigued to hear
feminine voices dulcetly intoning perhaps
the most ribald of all the 2nd A.l.F.’s
soldier-songs. The songstresses were
nurses from the local civvy hospital, and
the lasses’ damask cheeks would have
been surely encarnadined had they been
aware that the lyrics they warbled in the
Wog lingo were completely biological in
motif. We never found out who taught
them the stanzas, but the extempore and
innocuous translations supplied in answer
to requests by the singers convinced me
that in our sergeants’-mess there was
hardly a man who could not have got a
crust on Civvy-street as lyric-writer,
v v
“X.M.N.”: The graceful lines of the
o j d sa iling-ships were enhanced by the
lovely figureheads they carried-usuaUy
of a design bearing a relationship to the
ship’s name, the ships being recognised
* ercb .y- adv “* f th® steamer saw
the disappearance of bow sprit and
figurehead; in their place came the
straight, utilitarian stem. The pendulum
is now swinging back. Most modern
“That skywriter hasn’t got his mind on his work.”
ships are featuring the soft-nosed stem,
sharply raked and with rounded upper-
part, where the company’s house-flag
appears in a shield. Some of the latest
overseas ships have individually-designed
badges, related to their names. The new
Ocean Monarch has Father Neptune,
trident in hand, proudly riding his horse
through the foaming sea. The Prince
Line are appropriately showing on their
new Egyptian Prince a lovely lotus design,
while the Cyprian Prince sports the badge
of the colony of Cyprus. It’s an interest-
ing trend with an appeal for all seamen
and shiplovers.
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: That Singapore
physician, Chia Whea Cheong, had noth-
ing new in 3D art (B. 20/l/’54). As
described, it would be just a form of
relief-sculpture, almost the only form of
sculpture used by the Irish (in their High
Crosses), the Highlanders with their
grave-slabs and on the frieze of the
Pantheon. Even Chia Whea’s method
isn’t new. Many of the Renaissance
artists built up parts of the paintings into
relief, particularly jewellery. It’s cer-
tainly a time-honored method and
extremely realistic and apparently
quite legitimate.
“Sack”: So somebody has discovered
that there really was a Horatio Horn-
blower (B. 6/l/’54)? Well, I can pro-
duce proof that a D. Bumstead (“Dag-
wood” to the uninitiated) also existed.
His address was 86 Lower Thames-street,
London. It is stamped on an earthen-
ware jar which my wife has suddenly
produced from nowhere to serve as an
auxiliary vase. The jar, I learned, was
an heirloom from a Scotch grandma,
and the rest of the lettering reads:
“Royal British Table Salt.” Evidently
my long-haired mate inherited not only
the jar but the thriftiness to use it; I’m
filled with admiration for her fortitude
in stifling such Scottish inhibitions —
when I’m up for the bill!
❖ i* ❖
“Mem”: Is silence really classifiable?
Headline news on Queensland radio-
station referred to latest-model tram as
“most noiseless” in the Commonwealth.
* ❖ ❖
“Talisman”: Tell “H.C.8.,” who asked
here if there were any New Guinea
Edward VIII pennies still in circulation,
that I have one tucked safely away. It
was given to my mother during Edward’s
short reign, and was brought to Australia
from Hong Kong—picked up there by an
officer of the S.S. Tanda, the Eastern and
Australian Co.’s ship then on a regular
run to the East. The coin has a hole
through the centre, with a crown centr-
ing over it and E.R.I. below. On the
reverse side is a filigree design round
the hole and “Territory of New Guinea,
One Penny, 1936,” round the edge. We
were told that it was the only coin bear-
ing the E.R.I. cipher. There is no mention
of George yi, as “H.C.8.” suggests.
* ❖ ❖
“Mackville”; Reading a very old
journal I was surprised by the informa-
tion that, for the year ending June 30,
1889, 2000 railway employees in the
U.S. were killed and another 20,000
injured. The following year the casual-
ties numbered 25,000, or one of every
dozen employees, with the death-roll at
2500. A writer who analysed 36 of the
accidents claimed that 22 could have been
prevented if employees had obeyed
orders, while the other 19 would not have
occurred if block-signal and interlock-
ing switches and signals had been used.
Incredible though those figures seem in
our generation, perhaps to the next
generation our shocking toll of the road
will seem just as unbelievable.
❖ ❖
“Irving”: The somewhat contemptu-
ous connotation attaching in modern
usage to the word “woman” is another
case of degeneration of a once-honor-
able form of address. Thus, military
snobbery differentiates between the lady-
friends of officers and the women of the
o.r.’s, presumably refusing to believe
that the Governor’s lady and Judy
O’Grady are sisters under and —in these
days of equality and mass-produced cos-
metics — above their skins.
& ❖ ♦>
“L.R.M.”: A feature of the concerts
held in the open at Westralia’s univer-
sity is the “grasshoppers.” These squat
on the lawn in front of the stage or to
the sides of the chaired audience. Direct
descendants of the “gods” of the theatre,
they exhibit many of the characteristics
of their prototypes. Like these, they
know the good points of a play; hence
many actors are learning “to play to the
grasshoppers,” There 'is a spirit of
camaraderie among them, and they have
a few definite rules for the common
good. The other night two women broke
the most important of these by bring-
ing stools onto the lawn, shutting-off the
view of the stage. Protest proved use-
less. So, with the first bars of the
Anthem, the stools were quietly removed
and left at the exit. With the best grace
they could muster, the women joined
tiie “grasshoppers.”
❖ *
“Ceg”: Psmith lived in Toorak,
Melbourne, and was the proud possessor
of two cars. The Psmiths were on excel-
lent terms with their neighbors in the
street —till they found they had no further
use for the second car and sold it. Their
rating went down perceptibly; quite a
chill descended. The impression created
was that they had fallen on lean times.
Men who had hitherto been quite
friendly hardly gave Psmith a nod. I
had thought that sort of nonsense was
restricted to the female of the species.
ON THE WAY OUT
ẁ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


w
ŵ
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tough-looking, with the quick, smallish
head worn by good ring-fighters, Peter
Jeffrey headed overseas as a sig.-officer
with an Australian fighter-squadron in
1940. He took charge of it the follow-
ing year, and gathered his D.S.O. and
D.F.C. in quick order. Jeffrey is the
cool cove who, in a fierce stoush over
El Gubbi, landed to rescue an outsize
Aussie sergeant-pilot grounded by
German fire. To squeeze back in he had
to squat on the big chap’s knees and
somehow handle his single-seater fighter
from that perch. Now, rank of group-
captain, Jeffrey has been appointed
Superintendent, Air, for the Long Range
Weapons Establishment at Salisbury, in
South Australia—mixed-up with the man-
made meteors which have been streaking
round those parts of late.
• •
About the only official chap who did
not get a mention on The Day was
General Berryman. No doubt he had
his own satisfaction: when the Queen
stepped on to Sydney soil, then began
her progress, it was, for Berryman, D.-G.
of the Royal tour, the crowning of four
years of assiduous work —work typical
in its efficiency of the two-war Digger
who planned, among other things, most
of the Australian operations in New
Guinea and helped to plan the overall
strategy in the Pacific fighting.
• •
John Haddin takes considerable know-
ledge of milk (understood to be a
whitish fluid) into his appointment to
the board of Horlicks’, who deal with
the malted variety. For 20 years a direc-
tor of Dairy Farmers Co-op., which his
father helped to launch, Haddin retired
seven years back from managing Camden
Park Estate, the biggest individual sup-
plier of milk to Sydney. Haddin has
himself owned properties in various parts
of N. S. Wales, all noted for their sound
layout. Over the years, during which he
travelled long through the Territory, the
Kimberleys and Centralia, he has been a
consistent advocate of modem improve-
ments in agriculture,
• •
A cable from Vienna announcing the
discovery of a drug—succinic acid —
which could turn a Mr. Hyde into a Dr.
Jekyll was no news to Melbourne. It
was 26-year-old Sam Gershon, of the
Mental Hygiene Department at Travan-
core Clinic, who two years ago started
experimenting with the drug as a cure
for mental illness by treating schizo-
phrenics. His first tests were with animals
at Ballarat Mental Hospital, and his first
on human patients were so successful
that he enlisted the interest of Professor
Wright, holder of the Physiology Chair
at Melbourne University. Since the
spectacular cure of a middle-aged woman
the drug has cured 22 out of 25 cases of
schizophrenia and 21 out of 25 cases
of manic-depression. Gershon graduated
from Sydney University in 1950.
• •
Former cricketer, turned tenor, Law-
rence Power came back to Australia with
his Italian wife, Annunciata Garrotto,
under A.B.C. segis in 1940. He’d headed
off 15 years earlier under a Sydney “Sun”
aria competition held in that breeding-
place of singers, Ballarat. Already
chosen to play for South Australia in
Shield cricket and against Douglas’s
1920-21 English XI, Power was train-
ing for accountancy when he dropped
the lot for singing experience in Italy.
He sang through an opera season, dur-
ing which he met his wife, then went
on to tour Near Asia, China and Japan,
finishing with a 37-week engagement at
&ew York Hippodrome. He did any-
thing but “sing” in War II —winning,
instead, a Presidential citation for his
work in the Secret Service of the U.S.
Government. Now he’s making for home
again, finished with singing, to take up
farming on the Murray in South Aus,
Sir Walter Carpenter (passed on in
Sydney after returning to Australia from
his home in Vancouver to recuperate
from a severe heart attack) was nothing
if not cosmopolitan. His father called
New Haven, Connecticut, home, and Sir
Walter himself was bom in Singapore,
educated at Forest Lodge State School
(Sydney), began business in Thursday
Island at the turn of the century, moved
to Fiji, got to know the Pacific like the
palm of his hand, and founded the great
Australian trading firm of which he was
chairman of directors —as well as helping
direct about 20 other companies. One
failure was the short-lived “Sunday
Observer,” launched in Sydney in 1933
Knighted in 1936, he took up residence
in Vancouver in 1940, and, with it, Cana-
dian citizenship. Seventy-six at the end.
• •
Before the war Peter Gibbes was
known to most air-travellers between
Melbourne and Sydney when he handled
the controls of civil airliners plying those
parts. Subsequent war performance
(D.F.C., A.F.C.) included bombing at
mast-height of an armed Jap wireless-
ship in Malaya; a dashing flight from
Palembang (Sumatra) to Singapore, dur-
ing which he made a sketch under shell-
fire of enemy naval dispostions; and a
smart run on terra firma to get into his
aircraft with Jap machine-gunners all
around doing their best to keep him
grounded. He learnt his flying at Essen-
don (Vic.), then joined A.N.A. Now
flight-superintendent of the company,
with 83 different types of aircraft in his
log-book, he’s headed for the most im-
portant flight of his career —captaining
the Skymaster which will carry the
Queen and Duke of Edinburgh from
Launceston to Melbourne, on February
24.
• •
In a service which prides itself on
brevity of titles, those of Captain Patrick
Perry, 0.8. E., are impressive: Director-
General Supply and Secretariat Branch,
Chief Naval Judge Advocate and Direc-
tor of Administrative Planning—in short,
a “paybob.” That takes in a multitude
of duties, not the least of them an en-
cyclopaedic knowledge of the Navy’s
Bible, Queen’s Regulations and Admir-
alty Instructions. And a paybob’s job
doesn’t necessarily mean a base appoint-
ment, nor anything like it. For three
years of War II Perry did bis work
CAPTAIN, R.A.N.
aboard cruiser Australia, when she
bombarded and fought-off Jap suicide-
bomber attacks from Guadalcanal, up
through Arawe, Hollandia, Biak and
Morotai to Lingayen Gulf and the
Philippines. In the Andrew for more than
30 years, he was naval liaison-officer in
London when war broke out, and before
shipping sealegs represented the Mother
Navy at squash. Launched at Oakey,
outside Toowoomba (Q.).
The lineaments pictured herewith be-
long to C. W. Quihampton—-“Quin” for
short —one of the Australian Natives’
Association’s keenest debaters and this
year chief president and head of the
organisation for the Royal visit. #Born
in Melbourne, an accountant by pro-
fession, he has been linked with the asso-
ciation from as far back as he can remem-
ber, and has held most of its offices. He
PRESIDENT, A.N.A.
was the initial secretary of the council
which fathered the celebrating of Aus-
tralia Day, which day a lot of Australians
think is' the anniversary of Captain
Cook’s first landing. At the recent recep-
tion in Melbourne to celebrate the 166th
anniversary of Captain Phillip's Sydney
landfall, “Quin” had those professional
debaters R. G. Casey, Fulton, M.L.C.,
Peters, M.P., Vic. Premier Cain and
others discussing the question as to
whether a personal point of view was one
of the privileges of nationhood.
• •
“Uramao”: Sir Arthur Porritt, an
Enzedder who was surgeon to George V
and is now sergeant-surgeon to the Queen,
has not only a great professional name
but a notable record as an athlete. So
it’s doubly appropriate that the other
day he should have been elected as first
chairman of the newly-formed British
Association of Sport and Medicine. New
Zealand sprint champion in the 100yds. in
1923, he figured as his country’s rep. in
several Olympiads, and managed the
N.Z. teams at the Empire Games in 1924,
the Olympic Games in Amsterdam, and
in Berlin in 1936. In collaboration with
Douglas Lowe, Olympic 800-metre
champion, he wrote a book on athletics.
The late war saw him lieut.-colonel in
the R.A.M.C. at the Dunkirk evacuation
and back again with the invading army.
• •
Alfred Hill, the veteran Melbourne
composer, is likely to provide the only
indigenous hit of the Queen’s visit. On
March 8 his choral work “Sing of Aus-
tralia” is to be sung before her Majesty
at the Exhibition Building by 500 voices
directed by Professor Heinze. Hill’s
“Australia” symphony was lately per-
formed on their home ground by the
famous Vienna Symphony Players.
South Australian conductor, Henry Krips,
who knows Hill, took this piece with him
on a recent conducting tour in Europe.
• •
Henry Stebbins, U.S. Consul-General,
as one, of the consular folk of all nations
who joined in the Australian Natives’
Association’s Australia Day celebration
in Melbourne, was struck by the fact
that, of all the nations which have
“Days,” we seem to rate our Day least
important. Born at Milton, Mass., and
educated at Harvard, Stebbins entered
Uncle Sam’s Commercial-Attache service
in 1927. Later he transferred to the
State Department and has been Consul
in Berne, Stamboul, Ottawa, Vienna and
London (where he spent 11 years, includ-
ing all the war years, loving every
minute of it). He likes good food and it
seems to like him.
Veteran Perth flying-man, John W.
Hubble, has added D.S.O, to the A.F.C
gained in the Pacific air-fighting in War
11. A reserved sort of chap, he went
straight from Guildford (W.A.) Grammar
School into the R.A.A.F. in 1942, and
sprouted wings the following year. The
new award is for courage and brilliant
tactical leadership while commanding
the Double Seven Squadron in Korea.
Among other exploits, he planned and
personally led his squadron on a num-
ber of night missions, during which many
columns of enemy vehicles were sur-
prised and destroyed. Back from Korea,
he commanded the City of Perth Vam-
pire Fighter Squadron, until grounded
by injuries received in a crash last year.
Since his recovery, he has been “chair-
borne” at the Pearce station, but hopes
to be in the air again soon with a new
posting.
• •
“X.S.”: Introducing Bob Wallis, of
Queenscliff (Vic.), Australia’s greatest
optimist and the world’s most persistent
treasure-seeker. For 30 years Bob has been
prospecting round the cliffs of that Port
Phillip port for £2 million-worth of
pirate-money, at a cost to himself of
£2OOO. He was recently plunged into
despair because the Lands Department
refused a permit for another year just
as he thought he might be a few feet
off the treasure. He is happy again—
Mayor Golightly, of Queenscliff, has
assured the Lands Department that, if
Bob hasn’t done any good in the past, he
has done no harm, and so it granted the
permit. It is true that there is some
doubt as to whether Bonito, the buc-
caneer who captured the loot of Lima
Cathedral from the ship in which it had
been put to save it from the Chilean in-
vaders, ever visited Port Phillip, but
scores of treasure-hunters believe he did
and have riddled the cliffs with holes
looking for the loot. Bob has kept his
hope up better than any of them, and his
hope has probably prolonged his life—
he is 73 and stronger and heartier than
many a no-hoper of 20.
• •
Down to Hobart’s Hutchins School
(the* second-oldest in Australia) goes W.
H. Mason-Cox, from Melbourne’s Wesley
College, as headmaster. A Melbourne
University man, the new boss started
his teaching at Geelong Grammar in 1938,
and interrupted it to give the Japs in the
Pacific a lesson per a Digger artillery
unit. He has represented Victoria at
football, and at 39 still wields a pretty
nifty cricket bat.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), Lady Rutherford,
widow of the great atom-scientist, Lord Ruther-
ford. Her only child married Sir Ralph Fowler,
one-time Professor of Mathematical Physics at
Cambridge. Four grandchildren survive, one
of whom, Peter Fowler, is physics-lecturer at
Bristol University.
In Adelaide, at 55, B. H. Farrow, a farmer
who left the land to join Horwood Bagshaw,
Ltd. (one of Australia’s leading agricultural-
implement makers), and rose to be the firm's
managing-director. A councillor of the
Chamber of Manufactures, in War I he was
a dispatch-rider with the Third Div. Signallers.
At Frankston (Vic.), at 67, Colin Henry
Campbell, for years a hard-working organiser
of fire-fighting in Victoria, and secretary of the
Rural Fire Brigades’ Association for 22 years
before its work was combined under the Coun-
try Fire Authority in 1945. He founded the
Clan Campbell Society in his State.
At 72, in Adelaide, Frederick John McLeod,
Boer War veteran and one-time Territory
mounted-policeman. From his interest and
acquaintance with Binghi working on cattle-
stations in the north, he wrote a book,
Womba, which has been broadcast by the
A.B.C. in Tasmania, is to be aired by the same
body in South Australia in March, and is to
be translated into German. After retirement
from the police, McLeod joined Elder Smith
and Co., and had managed several of the
firm’s branches in the north.
In Perth, at 82, Lawrence Barry Jupp, old-
time Bulletin scribe, regular contributor to
the magazine-section of “The West Australian
for over 40 years and for over 30 writer ot
Saturday-morning literary leaders in that paper.
In Brisbane, at 78, Bertram Trefusis De
Conjay, one-time Mayor of Warwick on tne
Darling Downs, and a founder of the Pres&y-
terian Girls College and Scots, two of the
best-known provincial colleges in Queensland
He was head of the State’s Caledonian Society
for many years.


A QUEEN PASSED BY


ABORIGINALITIES
r T'HE harassed New Guinea branch-
manager sat hunched over a ledger,
staring at columns of figures with an
expression of concen-
trated venom. “A
hundred and sixteen
quid out for the
eighteenth purple time,”
he said, “If one more
heliotrope thing goes
wrong today I’ll put a
match to the lot!” An
equally worried, but
chocolate - brown, face
appeared under the
propped-up window-flap.
“Master” “Go
away ; me cross! ”
exploded the manager.
The boy walked sadly
round to the back of the
building and watched the
kunai-and-thatch “house-
cook” burn to the
ground. —“Ybsul.”
* *
“Eurimburra”: Two
semi-related fish items
from Canberra way:
cod are reported being
caught in Lake George;
and two acclimatisation
societies recently joined
forces to release 25,000
trout fingerlings in this
shadeless waterhole.
That the native does
well in the lake’s saline
waters was proved when
cod released by Sir T. A. Murray in 1874
in Winderradeen Creek, assisted by wet
years and a major flood, got into the
lake to breed in size and numbers that
staggered the locals who discovered them
some 25 years later, when the pond
started to go dry and many of the cod
went aground. Lake trout under the
best conditions are notoriously hard to
catch, so if anyone takes a rainbow or
a brown in the next few years, other than
by net or dynamite, I’ll be surprised.
Nor will the chance of survival for many
of those fingerlings be improved by about
250 pelicans which regularly work the
shallows. The cod’s love of the deeps
in the daytime and shallows only at night
enables him to cope with Goolay-yafi,
but the trout will have to change his
habits. Had those 25,000 been cod, what
a wonderful spinning-ground the lake
would have been in a few years hence!
It’s still a great sheet of water, despite
the dry spell.
* # * *
“Hanko”: Lung-sore from swallerin’
overmuch gun-smoke, I threw down the
Western. Rimrocks, rattlers, rustlers,
chaparral, side-winders, road-runners —
and live-oaks. Seemed live-oaks weren’t
simply oaks that weren’t dead. So I hied
me to the Botanic Gardens, and there
on the green-swarded Oak Section I
found it —a measly dark-barked growth
like unto a spindly pittosporum! That’s
yer “live-oak” —’tain’t a tree at all!
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Bill Howard’s crude wool-
sheds (B. 21 jl! ’s4) had nothing on some
of those out from Charleville (Q.) in
the early ’twenties ; mostly one- or two-
stand outfits, built of bark. The bunk-
house didn’t exist; the shearers slept
on the selector’s veranda if he had one,
in their own tent if he hadn’t. I was
“loppy” in one such when a long drought
broke and our team of four moved into
the woolshed and dossed on bunks of
partly-filled woolbales on the earth-floor
for a fortnight—and if there’s anything
better to sleep on I’ve still to find it.
Kero, for the solitary hurricane-lamp
being low, illumination was provided by
jam- tins partly-filled with sand, topped-up
with dripping, with a rag on a stick for
a wick. If you had good eyes and were
no more than six inches away you could
read large print fairly easily. Sharing
this luxury were a couple of pens of
moribund ewes, weakened by drought
and chilled by rain, grouped round fire-
buckets which the optimistic owner
thought might warm them back to health
and vigor. This added the reek of wood-
smoke to an atmosphere already rich
with the smell of wool, wet mud,
burning fat, dung, dying sheep, and
black tobacco.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Always in the hot weather
the hose is gently trickling, the end of
it and the surrounding patch of wet
sand golden-brown with bees, and an
urgent cloud of the water-carriers hang-
ing in the air awaiting a turn. I wanted
“Book him, bigori—smoking on sentry-duty !”
to shift the hose to a dry spot 20yds.
away. It didn’t quite reach, so I jammed
an odd-piece of half-inch hose in the
end of the three-quarter-inch length.
Then I noticed a cloud of bees following
the hose on its snaky course among the
melon-hills. They followed without a
check to the end of three-quarter length,
and there hung in the air or descended
to suck at the moist cut-end. No bees
continued on along the half-inch hose.
The bigger hose was bone-dry along its
length, and I can only suppose the track-
ing was done by sound. Why, then, did
they stop at the junction? Did the
change of sound puzzle them, or did they
check at the familiar bee-scent that must
cling thickly to the end of the three-
quarter hose?
* * ♦ ♦
“Bogaduck”: “Sack,” who finds it
easier to swim in freshwater than in salt-
water (B. 20/1/ ’54), should visit the
“Doctor’s orders —I had to give up smoking."
salt-lake at Beachport (S.A.), whose brine
is of Dead Sea density. It buoys you up
like a cork, and when the water is warm
you can splash around in it for hours
without getting tired. People who can’t
learn to swim in either the sea or fresh-
water have no trouble in learning in this
lake, because it is impossible to sink in
it. Even if you lie down in the brine and
let yourself go limp, you float with your
head and shoulders clear. From that to
learning how to use your feet and arms
in an elementary swimming-stroke is
simple. But when you leave this lake and
try a dip in the sea on the other side of
the sandhills your body seems to have
become very leaden. Just as big a con-
trast presents itself when you are diving
off one of the barges at the Murray
mouth. After swimming on the seawater
side, the freshwater on the other side
seems to drag you down instead of
buoying you up.
“Millicent” plunges in:
Density and viscosity (B. 20/1/’54) are two
distinct and independent properties of all fluids,
and the velocity of an object through a fluid
is determined more by viscosity than by density.
Because brine is the denser, a human body
floats higher in saltwater than in freshwater,
and it therefore offers a smaller area of
resistance; but the viscosities of the fluids are
about the same, so that, provided the same
power can be applied in each case, velocity
would be greater in saltwater. The difference
between viscosity (internal friction between
fluid particles) and density, and their effect on
motion, can be seen at once by considering a
couple of extreme examples. Ordinary sump-
oil is less dense than water, but far more
viscous. A swimmer, even with his lungs
fully inflated, would sink like a stone in sump-
oil unless he expended part of his power in
keeping afloat. With the remainder of his
power he’d break no records in overcoming
the viscous resistance. Mercury is a thin,
“running” fluid of low viscosity, but nearly 14
times as dense as water. A swimmer in
that would float so high he’d offer hardly any
resistance, but fie probably wouldn’t be able
to apply his power efficiently. Molten gold is
an even more striking example of high density
and low viscosity— 19 times as dense as
water, and almost as fluid. Incidentally, a
large rise or fall of temperature in a swimming-
pool would affect a swimmer far more than
would the changed physical properties of the
water. Increase in temperature would decrease
both density and viscosity,, the first a hindrance,
the second a help, but both so slight as to be
unnoticeable.
* ♦ * «
“In the ACT”: Old age and the casual
axe, mentioned by A. H. Chisholm (B.
27/1/’54), aren’t the only enemies of
famous trees. In the vale of Avoca, in
Ireland, I enjoyed a spot of sentimentalis-
ing at the meeting of the waters where
Tom Moore wrote his well-known poem.
But apparently I wasn’t the first to feel
that way by a long chalk, because the
noble tree under which he sat is now a
bare, ruined stump surrounded by an iron
fence. Sentimental lovers of Moore’s
poetry gradually denuded the tree, bear-
ing away leaves, twigs, branches and
chips as mementoes. The spot is a
romantic and beautiful one, but the
sentiment aroused in me by the sight of
the mournful stump was savagely bitter.
It would be a suitable place for some
versifier to write a stirring ditty on the
theme of “Vandal, spare that tree!”
* * * #
“Topo”: “Bert the Carpenter’s”
Gyppos (B. 13/1/’54) apparently enjoyed
doing things the hard way. Making a frame
(substitute for a spirit-level) “accurate to
a hair’s-breath,” as described, would be
such a waste of time that even the modem
Gyppo wouldn’t be bothered with it.
Precisely the same results are obtained by
using a straight-edge as the hypotenuse of
a right-angle triangle. Two pegs are
driven into a pool of water till the tops
of the pegs are exactly level with the
surface. The ends of the straight-edge
are placed on the pegs, the plumbob is
suspended from the apex of the triangle,
and the spot where it touches the
straight-edge is marked with a saw-cut.
By this means a levelling appliance is
made that is accurate to the nth degree.
It is so simple to construct that I wouldn’t
be surprised if the first gardener used the
idea when cutting his irrigation ditches.
♦ ♦ * *
“Jock”: The job of clearing rats from
the basement of the grocery department
gave us, the directors of a country co-
operative society, many a headache. We
discussed various remedies, but little
came of any scheme. One night the
debate dragged on and on, until finally
I put in: “Well, Mr. Chairman, what
we need is a Pied Piper.” Bill, sitting
opposite, was stirred to action. “Yes,”
he said, “it’s a damn’ good poison, and
I’ll second the motion to get some.” To
Mac, sitting next to me, I whispered,
»Xhe b fool!” Mac was equally
scornful. “Aye,” he said, “it’s nae guid
at a’. Man, I’ve used it.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Slates (B. 30/12/’53)?
When, about 30 years ago, I decided to
ornament the building trade I heard my
elders sum-up: “Imported slates are a
prohibitive price, and Australian slates
are rubbish.” I was patriotic enough to
(silently) accuse my betters of anti-
Aussieism —until I fell for the knuckle-
skinning job of replacing a slate damp-
course with lead; a pencil could have
been pushed through the deteriorated
slates. About that time fibro-cemeot
slates were tried as a roofing-material, but
were found to discolor badly, and (a
much more serious fault) twist up, allow-
ing rain to drive underneath. Terra-cotta
tiles had long been in use, but their
tendency to gather unsightly moss was
worrying architects. The advent of the
semi-glazed and glazed tile solved the
problem; tiles came to be generally
regarded as the roof for the better-class
home, with corrugated-iron a less-attrac-
tive but, in areas away from the sea,
very efficient poor-man’s roof. Over the
years other materials have come in:
metal tiles, corrugated-fibro, etc.; but if
South Australia really is producing a
first-grade slate at competitive prices, it
missed a great opportunity by not bung-
ing a few million over to the Ma State
during the mad boom. They would have
sold like hot tiles.
SITTING ROOM, STRZELECKI
HOMESTEAD
No one passes now, the track leads nowhere
any more, for this was the last homestead
to hold men’s voices along the Strzelecki Track.
When it was closed the sand crept to the
windows,
leaned its shoulder against the glass,
crashed through, and trickled slowly in
upon the carpet (bought for a city bride)
until the pattern was hidden and the chairs
were set paddling in its sterile anonymity,
and muted were the sounds of the feet
of the ghosts who once laughed here,
mated on the other side of the wall,
planned vast flocks, with fruit trees
near the bore and vegetables beside the overflow.
Higher the sand crept in the deserted room,
up into the chair-seats and into sofa-springs
broken by festive and cheerful buttocks
at sweaty and songful Christmasses long ago
when paper hats laughed at the lack of feed,
champagne washed dust from the throats,
and cigar-smoke strove to neutralise
the drought-thick smell of cattle-corpses
scattered over the pavement-bare countryside.
Over the table the sand sprawled next,
forever erasing all marks on time
of letters once written upon it
to go down to the country inside the fences,
to go down past Monte-Colljna
carried by the mail-man’s trotting donkeys,
fording belly-deep through flooded creeks,
swimming rivers,
and always struggling up and over the Cobbler,
last and most difficult sandhill of all,
named from the Cobbler of the shearers,
the worst sheep to shear, left until last.
From the table the sand climbed higher,
over the rest of the furniture,
hiding the scars made when Ali Mahomet’s
camels •
went mad, broke their nose-ropes,
and fought fully-laden at Mulowortina;
then up the sand crept to forever silence
memories
of Chopin, Strauss and “Do You Remember
Black Alice?”
among the snapped wires of the piano.
Higher still, until alone above its surface showed
only the nail and wire supporting someone’s
photograph
hanging on the discolored wall, someone
who once told tall tales of Leichhardt relics
out towards the border where the dead men lie
and the living are often liars,
someone who also told over and over
tall stories of mustering in mirages,
of whipping the bubbles at Lake Eyre Crossing,
of hearing the kuddimukra cry at night on
desolate lakes,
and about how Kidman made his fortune.
And there it stopped, the invading sand,
stopped with no ghost’s head left above its
surface,
but with over it the iron pyramid of roof
still protruding above the hand-smooth surface
of sandhill,
a pyramid that the wind will soon blow down
and scatter across the devastation
where once dreams saw vast flocks grazing
but where now the only living moving objects
are the fluid mirage, the flowing, blowing sand,
and a sad and stunted rabbit racing to nowhere,
pursued into the mirage by a dingo shadow.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


V/TfHERE bushfires raged over many
miles between Nowra and Bate-
man’s Bay (N.S.W.) the trees are resur-
rected with a profusion of suckers that
sprout from every limb and cover trunks
almost to the ground. Future generations
working that timber will curse those
hundreds of extra knots. Paradoxically,
the best recoveries are where the fires
were most severe —a tree that has been
merely badly scorched must drop the
wilted leaves before the revival can get
into full swing. The man-made pine-
forest near Lake Tabourie did not
escape, but Nature assisted the New
Australian conifers as ably as she did
her native eucalypts, A stand of tall
pines badly burnt last summer has
recovered well, while a section of
younger ones look to have a good fight-
ing chance of surviving their recent
gruelling. Whether the extra knots
which may occur in the recovery will
be detrimental to the timber is doubtful,
since quick-growing pines are useless for
building-timber, anyway; packing-cases
or wood-pulp will probably be the
ultimate fate of the whole forest.
—“Macquarie.”
» ♦ * *
“Spokeshave”: I glean the astound-
ing intelligence from a newspaper that
rabbits do about £5O-million-worth of
damage in Britain every year, devouring
130,000 acres of wheat alone. I noticed
“You remember Smithy—we were at kindergarten together."
the pests hopping round the place when
I stayed at a farm in Cornwall, and was
somewhat surprised that the farmer was
not the slightest bit irritated; he seemed
to regard them as pets. I came to the
conclusion that this must be a relic of
the old aristocratic respect for game
handed down by the huntin’ and fishin’
gentry. It may be so—anyhow, when
myxomatosis was accidentally intro-
duced into England a while back the
whole country seemed to regard it as an
unmitigated misfortune. Yet it appears
they do that enormous amount of
damage!
♦ * * *
“Dogai”: Those scrapings from the
inner linings of warriors’ skulls brought
back by victorious headhunters on Boigu
Island, Torres Straits (B, 20/1/’54), seem
to have played a big part in the battle
plans of natives of the entire archi-
pelago. On Badu Island Jacobo Baira, a
scion of one of the island’s most-storied
warriors, told me that the substance was
the vehicle of martial valor. After a
battle the skulls of those of the enemy
who had shown battle-prowess were
prospected diligently by the tribal elders
for the warrior-leaven, which, in paste-
form, was dealt out carefully to young
men about to embark on their first raids.
The prescription, though certainly grue-
some, was little different from the brew
concocted by many savage races from
the heart of a gallant enemy and drunk
by his killers in the belief that they would
thereby acquire his military virtues.
Undoubtedly the native backroom boys
responsible for morale-boosting were no
slouches in the technique of psycho-
logical-warfare long before Europeon
experts ever thought of the term.
* * *
“Harbel”: Anybody ever seen a four-
legged chook? Some months ago one
was hatched in a clutch set by a retired
fisherman at Ulladulla, South Coast
(N.S.W.). A White Leghorn cross, the
chick had a slightly-smaller pair of legs
joining the others behind the thighs. The
extras grew with the bird. At first he
carried them stuck out behind when walk-
ing, but as he grew older he developed an
acrobatic contortion that brought them
forward like couched lances. Apart from
a few stumbling shuffles when starting in
a hurry, he didn’t seem to find his double
issue of props any disadvantage. At two
months he looked like developing into a
healthy, average-sized bird. Then one
morning he was missing from the pen,
and hasn’t been seen since. It’s possible
some unscrupulous country showman
may have heard about the freak —but
the erstwhile owner has deeper sus-
picions about a certain kookaburra.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Brick E.”: “Hanko’s” boss, who told
Fritz to use sharp sand, “not smooth,
water-worn stuff” (B. 20/1/ ’54), was
repeating a test-book theory that goes
astray in practice. River-sand, very much
sharper than pit-sand, is specified by
architects for concrete because it is
coarse, sharp and washed- free of dust
and loam. Plasterers prefer it when
topping floors: the coarse grains are
heavy enough to sink slightly in the mix-
ture, thus bringing the cement slurry to
the surface, giving a harder, smoother
finish (for the same reason, when fine-
metal screenings are available, they use
about half and half of sand and screen-
ings). On the other hand, river-sand is
no good for brickwork. Pit-sand works
smoother and “fattier,” is not “hungry”
with lime or cement—therefore is more
economical—can be used much faster
and makes a neater job. Regarding the
sugar “to give it a sweet finish”: I hate
to spoil the joke, but plasterers do put
sugar in their stuff on occasions. Plaster-
of-Paris sets very quickly; when a very
intricate job can’t be done before the
stuff’s “gone off,” sugar is the answer—
it slows-up the drying action. Incident-
ally, a solution of ordinary washing-soda
mixed-in with cement will dry it quickly
—a wrinkle that comes in handy when
“Quick, Emma, put your shoes on, here they come !”
you’re doing bails or similar jobs that
can’t be left unused for days.
* * * ♦
“Dick the Fossicker”: The aborigines’
gnamma-hole can always be located,
though they can hide it pretty well. Use
the patches of ash, breakwinds and food-
scraps where they’ve camped as your
starting-point, walk for 100 yards or so
and move around in a circle with the
campsite as its centre, going about 20ft.
farther out with each succeeding circle.
Watch for a flat stone lying on a bare
rock-surface. There’s no need to turn
over every one you see, for the right one
will be marked by numerous scratches
on the rocks, where thirsty dingoes, emus
and Toos have smelt the water and have
clawed in a vain attempt to uncover it.
Another sure lead is the sight of a num-
ber of crickets sheltering on the shady
side of the stone and—l presume—getting
some moisture from the water-vapor
which rises from the store below. Every
gnamma-hole I’ve inspected was a natural
feature and not man-made.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Birds which habitually nest
on the color of its eggs there must be no
in hollow tree-spouts lay white eggs (B.
27/1/’54) because white is the easiest
color to see in dark places, and the eggs
are consequently less liable to damage by
the homing bird. Those that lay colored
eggs in tree-spouts generally belong to
a group which has no fixed nesting habits,
but seeks a spout as temporary accom-
modation. Obviously, if the nesting
habit of a bird is to have any influence
on the color of its eggs there must be no
variation in that habit for thousands of
generations. For instance, the kestrel
sometimes nests in a hollow-tree, some-
times in a rock-crevice and sometimes in
the deserted nest of a crow. It would be
hard to prove or disprove any theory of
egg-coloration on the evidence of a bird
like that. “Heresone,” not satisfied with
seeking amongst the 700 Australian birds
for evidence, mentions the imported
starling. Well, a friend of mine has had
starlings nesting in the roof of her house
this season, and, while her home isn’t a
mansion, I know she’d be offended if
anyone referred to it as a hollow spout.
* ♦ • *
“Pawang”; A bit of light was thrown
for me on the phenomenon of the
“phantom” limb, into which a young
Melbourne medico has been conducting
research, when I observed a goat of ours
which had lost one of its hind legs.
Although it is several months since the
accident, the goat continues to scratch
itself behind the ear with the missing
hoof, and seems actually to get relief
from the operation.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Hoppy”: The boss had instructed me
to call on my way to the township at
the Greenleaves’ place to collect our
stocks and dies, which the old blighter
had borrowed in the winter. I left the
truck at the house and wandered to the
yards where the ex-city man, now an
un-pro, farmer, and his wife were pot-
tering among a mass of sheep. Lambs
were penned away from ewes mixed with
wethers, and I remembered local talk
of old G. doing a, spot of classing of his
flock preparatory to founding a stud. I
had a drink at the tank and leaned over
the white metal rail to get a line on tha
operation before the couple spotted me.
Mrs x G., with pots of liquid raddle,
was pushing among the jumbucks ans
wildly dabbing as the classer called direc-
tions. There was a lull as the old boy
seemed to run out of likely candidates;
then one broken-mouth woolly cried out,
and Greensleave shouted to his offsider:
“Hit her with a blue, dear! At least she’ll
make a good mother.”
* * * *
“Bapo”: On his rounds my father, a
bush-parson in western Queensland,
called at a little humpy and was asked
to christen an infant. Requesting a re-
ceptacle for the water, he was given an
old jam-tin. He proceeded with the
ceremony, but was a bit shaken when
the water showed a vivid green on the
baby’s skin. The tin had only contained
the stuff used in dressing the stumps for
the shack —copper-sulphate!
♦ * ♦ ♦
Early Looks at W.A.
The first white man to notice the reef
off Cottesloe (W.A.) was probably
Willem de Vlaming, in 1697. It’s
reckoned it was about there he main-
landed after he had explored and named
Rottnest Island.
He took his armed party straight
inland until he came to “a large basin
of brackish water, which we afterwards
found was a river” (probably Melville
Water), explored most of the river, which
he called the Black Swan, and then
cleared out, taking a couple of black
swans with him, having “found neither
good country nor seen anything worthy
of note.”
A century later Baudin also explored
the river up as far as the islands over
which the causeway was later built, and
he, too, went away apparently equally
unimpressed.
Well, it depends on what you’re look-
ing for, and usefulness, like beauty,
would appear to be in the eye of the
beholder. Vlaming was looking for a
lost Dutch ship and, incidentally, quick
riches, Baudin for La Perouse. But in
1827 Captain James Stirling was looking
for somewhere to found a British settle-
ment, and his report to the Home
Government on the Swan River district
was so favorable that he was immedi-
ately given the job of organising the
expedition from which Westralia sprang.
Looking now, only 125 years later, at
the State which has lovely Perth for its
capital, and at what it has poured put
in that time, makes you wonder that
those priceless earlier chances should
have been passed up. Wool, beef, wheat,
fruit, timber, gold and now —uranium
and oil. No foresight, the Dutch and
French.
MARK O’POLO.
BORROLOOLA
ŵ
N.S.W,
JACK BASSETT.


PENFOIDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
HNFOIDS
PSVS3
You asked for Benson 6? Hedges cigarettes. Sir "
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, BENSONmd HEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE LATE KINO GEORGE VI
j/o'
ẃ
Benson & Hedges Lid. are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are available
on the world’s most famous airways, including all routes served by the following: —
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER LINOUS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM ■ QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON ■ AIR PRANCE
EL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES • SAB ENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS ■ TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTKS AEROS PORTUOUESES • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD •
OLD BOND STREET ■
LONDON
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Industrial Activity High
A GOOD level of prosperity is
continuing throughout the
Commonwealth, even though
black-coal production is still a
shade' below the record level
reached in 1951-52. There has
been a pronounced recovery in
some manufacturing industries,
with record figures shown
recently.
The wheat position is un-
certain, but wool is having
another strong selling-season,
and the prices for most raw-
material exports have stabilised.
Some of the depressed manu-
facturing industries, such as
woollen textiles, have been doing
better in their sales within the
Commonwealth, and the reduc-
tion in sales tax has assisted in
increasing the demand for
refrigerators and some other
electrical appliances.
There has been a spectacular
recovery in the radio business
compared with last year, though
output is still not quite equal to
the level of 1950-51. Refrigerator
production for the final six
months of 1953 was at a record
rate. The same applies to
washing - machines. Vacuum-
cleaner output is up again, and
close to the 1950 record. Other
domestic appliances are being
turned out in increasing quan-
tities. Output of fractional horse-
power electric motors has never
been paralleled.
The motor-car industry is in
full blast once more, production
of car-bodies and tyres being at
record level.
Output of cotton yarn is back
to near the 1950-51 peak rate.
On the weaving side, results
vary: towels and towelling
figures are up, canvas and duck
are down. Drills and jeans are
up, and so are cotton-tweeds,
denims and other piece-goods.
Output of worsted yarn is
recovering, but has not got back
to the 1949-50 level. Woollen
yarn is in the same position.
Woven cloths follow the yarn
trend fairly closely. The rayon
industry is booming. Its figures
expand every year. The hosiery
industry is having a record run.
Some industries have not yet
recovered their 1950 level of
activity, and this is certainly the
case with woollen textiles; but
there is a variety of results among
members of each industry.
Management and past financial
policy is having an influence on
different profit-and-loss figures.
The building trade is operating
at a busy level once more.
Output of bricks, tiles and cement
is at unprecedented level. Cement
output is still barely satisfying
demand in N.S.W., the State with
the largest output. In Victoria
and Queensland there is still a
definite shortage, but in the
southern State supply will soon
rise up towards demand as
increased production from Aus-
tralian Cement and the new out-
put from the Gippsland concern
come forward. Supplies from the
North Australian co. will shortly
relieve the position in Queens-
land also.
Australian cement output is
now at the rate of about 140,000
tons a month. In 1938-39 output
for the year was 868,000 tons.
Production has increased in every
year since the war.
Pig-iron and ingot-steel output
are rapidly rising. It is possible
that during the current financial
year output of both will exceed
2,000,000 tons for the first time.
Breweries are having a busy
time throughout the Common-
wealth, and Tooth’s figures are
exceptionally good. Tooheys is
issuing more capital.
Quotations on Australian
Stock Exchanges have generally
strengthened since the new year
opened. The market continues
to buy, in the main, with a keen
regard for yields. Thus B.H.P.
(with stable div.-rate) has not
moved up very much notwith-
standing the bigger production
“Miss Walker, show this gentleman out, please."
figures at Newcastle and Port
Kembla. Tooth, on the other
hand, following an increase in
the dividend, has had a big lift
in the market.
In the mining section some
fantastic gambling has been going
on following the oil-strike at
Rough Range. There still seems
to be a good supply of “sucker-
money” coming forward to keep
excitement bubbling. Some of
the gamblers really believe in the
merit of the stock they pick.
Others are in it as a game of
poker; they are figuring on find-
ing a bigger sucker than them-
selves, at the appropriate time,
to whom they can sell at a higher
price.
The uranium-sharemarket is
equally a pig-in-a-poke. The
only discovery of pitchblende in
its massive form so far found in
Australia has been at Myponga
(S.A.). The importance of other
discoveries appears to have been
greatly exaggerated. It is
doubtful whether there is any
proved body of commercially
payable uranium so far known in
the Commonwealth.
Metropolitan Cement
Metropolitan Portland
Cement has finished another
year. At December 31, 1952,
its overdraft was £2,827,729 —
all of it with the Rural Bank
of N. S. Wales, a State Govern-
ment agency. What the over-
draft is now, with the co.’s con-
struction programme (particu-
larly in connection with the
transport of limestone) still in-
complete, will not be known
until the annual accounts are
submitted, which, in respect of
the 1952 accounts, was in July
of last year. Paid capital of the
co. a year ago was £1,004,306,
and liabilities other than the
aforementioned overdraft were
then £192,178. Assuming that
the overdraft has increased
during the year just closed, then
there is now over £3 a share of
outsiders’ money in the business
for every £1 owned by share-
holders.
In the last six months of the
1952 trading period the co.
showed a loss of £34,415, mak-
ing total intangibles £383,527.
Since then trading conditions
have become more competitive,
and since March, 1953, the co.
has been selling in N.S.W. at
around the same price as its
competitors (previously it was
allowed a high premium over its
competitors). And in Victoria,
where cement has remained in
short supply even longer than
in N.S.W., soon the local cos.
will be able to take up all the
slack in the demand for
cement. This will make it ex-
tremely hard for the top-heavy
Metropolitan co. to compete at
a profit. Because of the high
capital cost of its plant, financed
largely on borrowed money, the
depreciation and interest
charges are extraordinarily
heavy. Assessing both at 5 p.c.
p.a., the annual charge for these
two items would be around
£300,000 p.a. What rate of
interest is charged by the Rural
Bank is not known, and the
actual allowances made for de-
preciation during 1952 were be-
low 5 p.c. on the book-value of
fixed assets.
In 1952-53 the output of Port-
land cement in Australia was
1,431,000 tons, an increase of
nearly 200,000 tons over the
figure for the preceding year.
Portion of the increase would
be a result of the Metropolitan
co.’s operations. In the first
four months of the 1953-54 year
output has been at the rate of
nearly 1,700,000 tons a year, and
it is increasing. Whilst it can-
not be said that there is over-
production in the industry, and
it looks as though there will be
a growing demand for cement
as time goes by, it appears that
output of Australian cement
from low-cost producers will
make selling-prices an acute
problem to Metropolitan, which
has debt charges, depreciation
costs and transport problems of
a more burdensome nature than
most of its competitors.
Metropolitan began with the
blessing (and dollar assistance)
of the Chifley Government, and
many favors from the N.S.W.
“Labor” Government. It had a
“Labor” member of the State
Legislature on its board. But
its prospectus estimates of costs
and profit-earning were fantas-
tically astray. Now, 5i years
after flotation, its £1 shares are
around ss. 3d. And there is no re-
turn on even that figure in sight.
Details of the new issue from
Tooheys, Ltd., Sydney brewer,
have not yet been announced,
but the books will close on Feb-
ruary 17. The last new issue was
one for five, in 1950, at a premium
of 10s. on the 16s. shares. That
was the first issue since 1939.
Present paid capital is £2,079,000
in 16s. ords. Last div. was
8 p.c. At 295. 3d. the yield (dis-
regarding new issue) is 4.4 p.c.
* * * *
Frederic Ash, Ltd., and
Swans, Ltd., have both moved up
to 48s. 6d. in Sydney, and both
yield 5.2 p.c., assuming that the
usual Is.-a-share interim is
about to be declared (Swans’
have just announced that rate),
and that the rate for the full term
remains at 12} p.c. in each case.
Prior to the 1952 recession the
rate was 15 p.c. If present con-
ditions continue in the building
industry it is only a matter of
time before the old rate is
restored.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
L
I
mm
u?
rt
“You can bank
on the i Wales’ 99
“As a Solicitor, I know the value of
expert advice. That is why I bank at the
‘Wales’. The local Manager of the Bank
of New South Wales is a trained man,
widely experienced,, and backed by
specialists. I know that I can rely on his
guidance in banking matters.”
w
You, too, should consult
and use—
ŵ
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5329C
HARRY
DEARTH
©
m
Featuring GEORGE FOSTER and a panel of outstanding women
Presented by Malgic Adrenaline Cream
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
ake MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Drought
An almost rainless January
made things grim for N.Z.’s main
industry, dairying, and anything
but rosy for prosperity gener-
ally. At the end of the month,
after Royal-tour weather that
couldn’t have been bettered,
warnings were flashed around
that another week of drought
would turn the emergency into
a crisis over most of the North
Island, and would bring the
dairy-production season to an
abrupt end, about three months
before the usual time. This
meant that most of N.Z.’s two
million milking-cows would have
the longest, leanest and thirstiest
holiday they’ve ever had, and
farmers would be nearly six
months without income until
the first new season’s cheques
began to come in early in the
spring.
In one month all N.Z.’s hopes
of the eighth good season in a
row evaporated, and in their
place were rather dire prophecies
of what would happen to pros-
perity in districts which had been
riding “on the cow’s back.” To-
day herds had to be kept alive
with stock-meal, fodder and
other costly substitutes for
pastures. At this stage rain
would have been worth a
fortune to Maoriland.
To stave off a milk famine,
towns and cities planned to send
out milk-tankers into butter- and
cheese-production districts, where
dairy output was slumping fast.
N.Z. was living a good deal on
its fat, with the hottest month of
summer still ahead. For ice-
cream cos. and schools, a crisis
would bring cuts in milk-supplies,
but the ice-cream industry, which
has dried-milk as a standby, was
doing too well in this hot, dry
summer to lose sleep over a
failure of the flow of liquid milk.
Whatever was happening to the
main stream of prosperity, busi-
ness here was brisk, with profits
high.
If the dairying season came to
a sudden end, a third of the
year’s £75 million from exports
of butter, cheese and milk pro-
ducts could be lost, and N.Z.
would be this much poorer in
facing open competition and the
threat of margarine. The loss,
which has struck the industry so
quickly, would be nearly equal
to the pooled funds built up
since the founding of the
guaranteed-price system 17 years
ago, but most of it would fall on
farmers’ private reserves, which
fortunately are in healthy condi-
tion, except for the wasters and
spendthrifts, and those who
bought farms at peak post-war
prices.
Since the 1946 drought the
industry has made great strides,
and added close on £2l million to
the £4i million reserves that stood
to its credit at the end of the
war. The best years were up to
1951 when the will to save was
strong after the fright of 1946,
but since then, either because
continued good seasons lulled
farmers into a sense of security
or because costs had caught up
with them, payouts were raised
faster than overseas prices.
These were years of great pros-
perity and high living in N.Z.
No Meat Levy
From A. P. O’Shea, general-
secretary, Federated Farmers of
N.Z. (Inc.), Wellington:
In B. 30/12/’53 it was stated
that the New Zealand Meat Pro-
ducers’ Board “was to be
free....to make a levy on all
meat out of which to pay the
running cost of the Federated
Farmers’ organisation ”
The above statement is entirely
untrue. In actual point of fact,
what was under consideration
was a draft bill which was pre-
pared in 1951, and which was
put forward as a basis for dis-
cussion with the Government.
Our organisation had no know-
ledge of the contents of the bill
until last year, and had no part
whatsoever in the preparation of
the draft.
The facts in regard to the bill
are printed in an N.Z. journal of
November 10, 1953. Unfor-
tunately, however, the same
paper has not apologised for the
entirely erroneous assertion that
the bill was designed to obtain a
levy to pay the running costs of
Federated Farmers.
Australian Shares
So long as New Zealand’s
pound is inconvertible, there will
be a temptation to buy Aus-
tralian stocks and shares for
resale in Maoriland at prices
which show a better return than
the bank-rate ; that is, barring a
fall in shares. Between August,
1948, when N.Z. made its
exchange move, until the peak
of the share boom, in mid-’5l,
everything went fairly well.
Share rises and the premium of
up to 10 p.c. over the bank-rate
paid handsomely, until the
market took a turn. Since then
many holders have been waiting
for prices to come back, collect-
ing good divs. meanwhile, but
there’s a long way to go yet.
Where divs. have been turned
into shares at cut prices or into
new issues at solid values, New
Zealanders have been slowly
working their way back to firmer
ground, although with old age
creeping on it seems some will
have to choose between taking a
loss by converting into N-Z.
pounds soon or leave their estates
to be saddled with heavy Aus-
tralian death-duty and legal
charges, together with long delays
in completing probate.
Today the market is again
favorable for N.Z. investors to
operate on the 1948-51 pattern.
Shares bought for immediate
resale now give a return 5 p.c.
higher than bank-rate, and if the
sale is delayed there’s more than
an even chance of doing better.
New issues are among the best
buys, as rights can be bought in
N.Z. with local currency and the
Australian part of the cost met
from accumulated divs. or other
income. New Zealanders who
make use of Australian funds for
pickings like this usually have
good holdings of high-ranking
shares to finance operations.
Under N.Z.’s exchange-control
and the ban on export of capital,
sellers have no trouble in quit-
ting Australian shares on this
side. There’s a close parallel to
London-domiciled shares which
haye .been freely saleable in N-Z.
at 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. above bank-
rate, to supply funds for buying
cars, refrigerators, washing-
machines and other items, under
no-remittance licences, but this
trade lately has lost favor with
the Government.
Controls are an obstacle, but
so long as the pegged exchange
makes the £N.Z. worth more
externally than internally the
incentive will be there to make
the most of opportunities in the
sterling and Australian sections
of the market.
Exports and Inflation
If prosperity depended on
last year’s income, instead of on
this year’s and the next, the
picture shown by N.Z.'s
exhange balance for 1953 would
pass all the tests. The surplus
of £26.2 million —the highest for
eight years—was an improve-
ment of nearly £5O million on
the 1952 result, when the deficit
in the balance-of-payments was
£23.4 million. Rather more than
half this recovery (£27.4 million)
came from increased exports,
chiefly meat and wool, and the
balance mainly from contraction
in non-Government imports.
In reality, N.Z. imported part
of 1953 needs in 1952, and was
then able to hold off buying to
some extent while the goods were
sold. Parallel with this, there
was a rise in bank o.d.’s to a
peak of £195 million in May.
1952,' and a fall later as stocks
were turned into cash. N.Z. was
living above its income in the
one year and below it in the
other; over the two years it
came out a shade better than
all-square. As an adjustment
after the super-boom in wool this
was probably satisfactory, but it
didn’t leave much margin for a
setback, such as N.Z. is now
experiencing due to Qjjg of its
worst droughts.
Over 10 years the balance-of-
payments has fluctuated far more
widely than would be expected in
a country under tight import and
exchange controls, but the
sharpest of these ups and downs
occurred when controls were
relaxed (in 1951) and suddenly
reimposed (in 1952). The other
movements were reasonably in
step with expanding export trade.
One of the lessons of the 1951-
52 experience is that sound
internal policies are needed to
restrain inflation, otherwise
exchange decontrol lays a
country open to a run on the
currency. N.Z. still has inflation
in its blood, and it is this that
is making difficulty for the Gov-
ernment in its halting efforts to
get rid of controls. The inflation
is likely to be more troublesome
with export volume falling
steeply in the current half-year,
while the recent 10 p.c. general
wage - rise and consequent
increases in costs and prices bring
a further cut in the internal value
of N.Z.’s pegged sterling-value
pound. The wage-cost structure,
like the exchange picture, is a
reflection of the past and is out
of harmony with conditions
today.


How much
w
time will rone
Executor have for affairs?
Few men can spare die time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
"trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way o Chairman ).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Favielh
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager : F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart*
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
33-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
F. J. Walker, Ltd.
TT HAS been a satisfactory proposition
for those who bought the 10s. stock-
units at 13s. lOd. in 1951. Against pros-
pectus forecasts of a 7\ p.c. distribution,
the average for the past three years has
been 10.5 p.c. An interim will not be
declared for the current year until about
the end of this month. But there is every
reason to expect a distribution at least
as high as in 1951-52, when the rate was
p.c. for the full year—interim 5 p.c.
tax-free, final 5 p.c., bonus p.c.
During the term to June 30 last
turnover was a record at over
£7,500,000, and profits, after allowing
for taxation at pre-Budget rates, rose
£132,743 to £317,740. That was equal
to 31.8 p.c. on capital, compared with
18.5 and 16.9 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. If tax-provision had been made
in accordance with the reduced rates
provided in the Budget, there would have
been approximately another £50,000 to
show, or 5 p.c. on capital, making around
37 p.c.
As it was, there was ample to spare
after payment of the \2\ p.c. div.:
F. J. Walker and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
£ £ £
1951.. 169,402 9 p.c. 90,000 79,402 303,898
1952.. 184,997 10 „ „ 100.000 84,997 388,895
Written off intangibles, etc., £6049 .. 382,846
1953.. 317,740 12ip.c.= 125,000 192,740 575,586
* Subject to intangibles ( £209,498 at June 30. 1953).
Visible reserves at £575,586 are subject
to £209,498 net premiums paid for shares
in subsidiaries. Deducting these, net
tangible assets are equal to 13s, Bd. per
10s. stock-unit. But including the
premiums, which appear to be well justi-
fied by trading results, the backing rises
to 15s. 9d. per unit.
The parent co. is a trading and holding
concern controlling a group of nine
associated enterprises engaged in the
meat and allied industries, including cold-
storage, throughout N. S. Wales. The
subsidiaries are:
Australian Chilling and Freezing Co.,
Ltd.; Australian Wool and Produce Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Australian Natural Gut Manu-
facturing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Commercial
Freezing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Hunter River
Meat Preserving Co. Pty., Ltd.; Metro-
politan Meat Co. Pty., Ltd.; Sydney Meat
Preserving Co., Ltd.; Walker Trading Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Waterside Cold Stores Pty., Ltd.
The combined business, as indicated,
have a very large turnover, most of which
is sold on the Australian market. Results
are subject to conditions in the pastoral
industry, with which the subsidiaries
have close associations in the killing of
stock (at Auburn and Aberdeen), for the
local and export meat trade and the
treatment at Botany (Sydney) of sheep-
skins, There are eight rabbit-chilling
works, and other offshoots make small-
goods, casings, butter, ice and gut and
other by-products. The whole organisa-
tion is closely interwoven and self-con-
tained. Since the close of last accounts
the co. has acquired control of Oldham
Bros., Ltd., wholesale butchers and
smallgoods - manufacturers, Newcastle,
and has agreed to take over the business
of R. N. McGavin, in the same type of
business in the same area.
Factors which were mainly responsible
for last year’s record turnover and profit
figures were bounteous pastoral conditions
which brought increased supplies of fat-
stock for treatment; the large tonnage
of frozen beef shipped to England; and
the large number of sheep and lambs
treated, which not only increased meat
turnover, but supplied a greater amount
of work for the fellmongery, with an
increased quantity of wool for sale at
rising prices.
Considering the big turnover, stocks
and the outside debt have been kept at
a remarkably low level:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,006,000 £1,000,006 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 303,896 388,895 575,586
Outside interests.. 6,762 5,574 5,208
Tax provision ~ 197,138 171,269 265,309
Creditors .. .. 101,434 172,396 217,874
Final dividend .. 90,000 60,000 75,000
£1,699,230 £1,798,134 £2,138,977
Freehold and lease-
holds .. .. 622,567 642,972 646,831
Plant, machinery,
etc 354,283 356,710 387,116
Stock .. ~ 191,586 800,190 218,367
Debtors .. .. 140,246 204,057 259,053
Cash and invest-
ments ~ .. 174,929 79,723 418,112
Intangibles, ~ 215,619 214,482 209,498
£1,699,230 £1,798,134 £2,188,977
Last term there were increases of
£3859 in properties (£646,831) and
£30,406 in plant (£387,116). Stocks
(£218,367) dropped £81,823, and debtors
(£259,053) increased £54,996. Cash and
investments (£418,112) jumped £338,389.
The outside debt (£217,874) was only
£45,478 higher. The co. is in a very
compact and strong financial position.
The season this year has been patchy,
but business should be satisfactory and
the p.c. div. secure. There was 6.3
p.c. remaining in tax-free reserves at
balance-date. At 21s. 6d. for the 10s.
stock-units the yield is 5.8 p.c. on a 12£
p.c. basis, 7 p.c, if the div.-rate rises to
15 p.c.
C. C. Engineering Industries
■pFFICIENT, versatile and progressive,
C. C. Engineering designs and pro-
duces special-purpose machinery and
does general engineering at its Glebe
(N.S.W.) workshops, where it also has
a large section for the heat-treatment of
steel. Its newly-erected factory at Gran-
ville turns out a number of popular and
highly-regarded proprietary lines of
machine-tools, etc,, some of them under
licence from overseas firms.
The co.’s manufactures include tool-
and cutter-grinders, surface-grinders,
hydraulic broaching-presses, screw- and
arbor-presses, drop-hammers, profile
machines, printers’ bench-saws, power
logging-saws, coalmining machinery,
Jamieson punches, Duncan case-strapping
machines, Shopsmith woodworking units
and Trabon lubrication systems.
There are three operating subsidiaries.
C. C. Die Castings, Ltd., in which the
public also has an interest, supplies the
parent as well as doing jobbing work for
a wide range of industries. Strapping
Machines Pty. markets Duncan strapping-
machines and packing-room supplies.
C. C. Distributors Pty. was formed in 1952
to handle the parent’s proprietary lines
and several English agencies.
The business had its beginnings in
1922, but it wasn’t until 1946, after the
war had boosted local industry and
paved the way for future expansion, that
the public was invited to become inter-
ested. In 1946 £30,000 of 5 p.c. pref.
money was gathered, and in the following
year ord.-holders sold a number of £1
shares at 375. 6d. The management was
quick to grasp the opportunities offered
by strong demand and sheltered markets,
and the co, prospered. Paid capital,
£32,899 in 1946, now stands at £407,605,
which has the support and assistance of
£149,980 in reserves. The ords. received
a 12i p.c. div. in 1947, and have had
10 p.c. ever since.
Earnings have moved this way over the
past few years:
Dividends N
pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c./ Ordinary serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1949. .23,805* 1500 10 p.c. = 8,290 14,015 103,491
Unexplained decrease, £920 .. .. 102,571
Tax for previous years paid, £11,861.. 90,710
1950. .38,245* 1500 10 p.c. = 10,829 25,916 116,626
O. C. Engineering Industries and Subsidiaries.!
Net addition to reserves on consolida-
tion, £lB,lOO 134,726
Reserves capitalised, £32,331 .. .. 102,395
Tax for previous years paid, £21,531.. 80,864
Share premiums, £4250 .. .. 85,114
1951.. 43.344 1500 10 p.c. = 19,724 22,120 107,234
Added intangibles, £lO7O .. ... 106,164
Sundry addition to reserves, £47 .. 106,211
1952.. 44.461 1500 10 p.c. = 27,691 15,270 121,481
1953.. 64.927 1500 10 „ ~34,928 28,499 149,980
f After deducting intangibles, now £7OO. * Subject
to tax. $ After eliminating outside interests in a
subsidiary’s profits.
The leap of £20,466 in last term’s group
profit was largely due to “the success
of the co.’s proprietary lines, power
logging-saws and the Shopsmith wood-
working machine,” and to improved plant
efficiency and production methods. Con-
sidering the general downturn in the
engineering and capital-equipment indus-
tries, it was a heartening achievement.
The £64,927 claimed was struck after
allowing £24,960 (up £2300) for depreci-
ation and £47,002 (down £5036) for tax,
and covered the pref. div. (£1500) and
18.6 p.c. on average ord. capital, as
against 16.1 p.c. and 22 p.c. back to 1951
During the year the balance of the
1952 share-issue (£58,362) was called-up.
Together with surplus profits, a £50,000
secured loan and a reduction of £20,740
in stocks, the new money was used to
add £56,346 and £17,766 net to freeholds
and plant respectively, £31,256 to debtors’
balances, and to clip £31,012 off the
overdraft and £25,625 off the amounts
coming to creditors, etc.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- i9oi. 1952. 1953.
Pref £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Ord 227,517 319,243 377,605
Reserves .. . . 107,234 121,481 149,980
Outside interests.. 74,351 90,264 94,302
Secured loan .. 50,000
Overdraft .. 88,050 163,987 132,975
Creditors* .. 105,578 193,047 167,422
£632,730 £918,022 £1,002,284
Freeholds .. .. 107,632 176.071 232,417
Plant, etc. .. 200,420 244,071 261,837
Stocks . . .. 209,796 365,209 344,469
Debtors . . .. 114.882 131,871 163,127
Cash .... 800 434
£632,730 £918,022 £1,002,284
* Includes provision for taxation.
Expenditure on freeholds was mainly on
account of the new Granville factory,
which was completed and taken over at
the end of the term. The co. has made
two new licensing agreements with U.S.
manufacturers —one a specialist in agricul-
tural spraying equipment, and the other
a household-appliance manufacturer —and
expects to commence production by the
end of the current term. Another project
is being investigated. All this will probably
mean “substantial” outlay on new plant
for the Granville factory, while further
equipment is on order for the general
engineering section at Glebe.
The diecasting offshoot is working to
capacity and has ordered additional
machines to cope with the demand. In
conjunction with English interests it will
form a new co., C. C.-Ewarts Pty., to
produce hot brass-pressings. Plant will
be shipped soon by the English co.
At the annual meeting, chairman F.
Cornelsen reported that sales and profits
since June 30 were comparable with the
same period in 1952, and that orders in
hand for general and manufacturing
engineering-units were in line with previ-
ous years. The current term promises to
be “very satisfactory,” and the diversity
of the co.’s activities should help smooth
any bumps in the road ahead, he said.
The £1 ords. at 31s. 6d. return 6.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and look promis-
ing. Net assets cover is 275. lid. apiece.
Bryson Industries, Ltd.
/'-'AR-DEALERS hit hardest by the
Federal Government’s import-restric-
tions, imposed in March, 1952, are those
handling only “built-up” vehicles, to
which the clamp was applied far more
severely than to “knocked-down” units
for assembly in Australia. Among the
unfortunates is Bryson Industries, Ltd.,
whose chief breadwinner is the Jaguar
franchise for Victoria and N. S. Wales.
Here’s the tale as told by official regis-
tration figures:
Registrations of New Jaguar Oars, N.S.W. and Vic.
Six months to June 30, 1951 ~ ~ .. 854
Year to June SO, 1952 .. ~ .. .. §99
Year to June 30, 1953 .. .. .. . 298
The remarkable fact about Bryson’s
latest accounts is that, despite a fall of
65 p.c or thereabouts in car sales, group
profit before tax was only £42,696, or
38 p.c., lower at £69,773. This may be
partly due to the pruning of exes, and
improved efficiency that the board men-
tions, but the “Wild Cat” is inclined to
think that a lot of the credit could be
due to a stock-reserve set up at the previ-
ous balance, though the board has noth-
ing to say on that score.
Supplies of Ariel motor-cycles, which
the co. distributes in Victoria, were
probably no better than those of cars.
The travel-goods offshoot had a “dis-
appointing” year, but the two small
finance cos. should have been busy
enough. Thanks to the easing of co.
taxation (tax accounted for £28,442,
down £25,299), the faff (£17,397, or 29.6
p.c.) in net profit was even less
pronounced:
Bryson Industries and Subsidiaries.
( —Dividends Re- Defl-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. tained. cit.*
5 p.c.
£> £ £ £ £
1951. .31.061 f 417 7 i p.c.f= 18,750 11,894 4,379
Intangibles appear, £6427 .. .. 10,806
Added reserves, £9793 .. .. .. 1,013
Reserves.*
1952. .58,688 2500 15 p.c. = 37,500 18,688 17,075
Intangibles appear, £l7l 17,504
1953..41,291 2500 12J p.c. = 31,250 7,541 25,045
* After deducting intangibles, now £8772.
f For six months.
After paying the pref. div. (£2500), the
£41,291 of profit showed 15.5 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 22.5 p.c. in 1952,
and the div. was dropped to 12 \ p.c.
The amount written off for depreciation
of plant and leaseholds was £12,259, up
£2548.
Bryson Industries was formed in 1951
to buy the net tangible assets of six
proprietary cos. for £250,000, their book-
value. Certain freeholds were written-up
by £50,850 beforehand. Par issues to the
public of 50,000 5 p.c. £1 prefs. and
200,000 10s. ords. raised paid capital to
the present £300,000. Here is the pros-
pectus statement of adjusted net profits;
1946 £4,784 loss
1947 399 loss
1948 24,507
1949 33,701
1950 79,174
Six months to Dec., 1951 .. 59,583
Besides the Jaguar'and Ariel agencies,
Bryson took over the franchise for
Morgan cars, and later acquired the
Victorian franchise for the Lambretta
motor-scooter.
Last term’s reductions of £415,391 in
stocks, £16,328 in book-debts and £12,474
in the cash holding, together with
£59,515 from the bank, allowed the co.
to slash £462,792 off the amounts owing
to creditors, including customers’ de-
posits, and to add £30,542 to freehold
properties:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord. . . . . 250,000 250,000 250,000
Reserves .. .. 17,675 25,045
Outside interests .. 9,595 14,379 13,816
Overdraft . . .. 59,915
Tax provision .. 29,729 53,327 27,826
Customers’ deposits. . 235,922 111,453 55,870
Creditors .. . . 127,060 474,191 66,982
Final div 19,167 37,500 31,250
£721,473 £1,008,525 £580,704
Freeholds .. .. 101,623 108,118 138,660
Leaseholds .. .. 10,162 62,236 54,294
Plant, etc 24,938 44,701 38,473
Stocks .. .. 176,821 669,078 253,687
Debtors .. . . 91,983 111,328 95,000
Cash, etc 811,567 13,064 590
Deficit .. .. 4,879
£721,473 £1,008,525 £580,704
The fall in net current assets (£107,434)
was £9565.
Easing of import-controls promises a
better flow of vehicles in the current


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia’s
develop-
ment.
f
Every Year
a Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY’S PROTECTION -TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONIiY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE”
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
Hv
n.— -limjjMfriMii ■ iim(.
Missing Friends
WOULD LESLIE FRANCIS CROSLING,
formerly of 14 Arlington Street. Regent,
Victoria, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
DUDLEY A. TREGENT, Solicitor, of 422
Public Notice __
I. STAVROS PARASKEVA , CACULA,
known as STEVE KAKULAS, of Greek
nationality, born at Castellorizon, Greece,
resident 16 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 145 Riley Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Mm*
Iv/X-S
•9^.
a&feSsS
o vCfli
1
1
V
as •
sp*
■-.V-
-:>■■■-■
*v
k«»
»«**Vc5S
o'Si>^V-
tv'l
•rfS-rtC*
\^V' N
«c 5
0«*
*C
■
jr>*
"The spirit of friendship’
For a
winning
round
BLACK*WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland —every precious drop.
By Appointment to
the late King George VI
w
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
JBV
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdowu, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear•” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
term. Registrations of Jaguars in
the co.’s territories averaged 27
per month for the six months to
December last, as against 25 per
month in 1952-53. Still, the
prospect for much better earn-
ings or a higher div. isn’t at all
clear. And sales of luxury cars
are likely to wilt more quickly in
arid market conditions than those
of lower-priced vehicles.
Bryson’s 10s. ords. at 11s. 6d.
yield 10.9 p.c. as long as the 12£
p.c. distribution continues. As an
investment proposition the shares
don’t compare favorably with
those of some of the big car-
dealers and assemblers. The
5 p.c. prefs. last sold at 16s. 6d.
to return 6.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £6 10s. prefs. and 11s.
ords.
Angus & Coote (Holdings)
'THIS holding co. was formed
in November, 1952, to take
over Angus and Coote Pty.,
which runs the well-known and
old-established jewellery-store in
George-street, Sydney. To do so
it handed out £380,000 in ss.
ords., of which 300,000 were
placed at ss. 3d. by a Sydney
broker. Besides the retail busi-
ness, which has nine departments
and a large country mail-order
connection, the proprietary’s
activities cover the manufacture
of optical equipment and
electroplate-ware, Australia-wide
distribution of hearing-aids and
badge-stamping and -enamelling.
Since its incorporation in 1912
the co. has never failed to make
a profit or pay a dividend.
The prospectus of the sale
disclosed a healthy earning-
capacity ;
Angus and Ooote Pty. and Subsidiary.
P.c. to Parent's
Net Profits. Paid Capital.
1948 ~ ..£43,200 11.4
1949 ~ .. 52,989 13.9
1950 .. .. 51,820 13.6
1951 .. .. 77,225 20.3
1952 .. .. 58,598 15.4
(Those figures are after tax at
current rates.) Despite gener-
ally lower turnovers in the
trade, the board claimed £6063
more profit last term, after
charging £3213 for depreciation
and £34,415 for tax:
Angus and Ooote (Holdings) and
Subsidiaries.*
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1958.-64,661 8$ = 30,400 34,261 105,666
* Includes profits of Angus and Ooote Pty.
Ltd. to July 31. t After deducting in-
tangibles, now £216,478. J Tax-free.
The £64,661 of profit equalled
17 p.c. on capital, so a tax-free
div. of 8 p.c. (the rate indicated
by the prospectus) presented no
difficulties. The board has ear-
marked £20,000 of the surplus
as a reserve against any fall in
stock-values due to sales-tax
cuts. Of the visible reserves
(£105,666), £68,503 is repre-
sented by a write-up of fixed
assets. Remaining tax-free funds
are equal to 8 p.c. on capital.
There is nothing to worry
about in finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital .. .. .. £380,002
Reserves .. .. .. • • 105,666
Overdraft .. .. .. 30,475
Creditors* .. .. .. 118,983
Final div. .. .. .• 15,200
£650,326
Freeholds, etc. .. .. .. 98,654
Plant, etc. .. .. .. 87,230
Shares other cos. .. .. 18,845
Stock . . .. .. . • 361,581
Debtors .. .. .. •. 81,193
Cash, etc. .. .. . • 2,823
£650,326
* Includes tax provision.
During the year the co. reduced
stocks by £62,506 and book-
debts by £13,066, and used the
proceeds, with surplus profits
and £11,517 added to creditors’
balances, etc., to spend £B3ll
net on fixed assets and to slash
£88,617 off the overdraft.
As for the current term, retail
sales are buoyant, and the
jewellery trade has had a special
stimulus in the Royal visit and
big sales-tax cuts. It all points
to a better showing at next
balance. Liking the co.’s pros-
pects, the market prices the ss.
ords. at 7s. 2d. (6s. 4d. a year
ago), at which figure the yield is
5.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is
6s. sd. a share.
Pine Hazards
Fungus-disease experts have
been called in to diagnose mor-
tality in pines in N.Z.’s corn-
mercial forest plantations which
cover a good part of the pumice
plateau in the heart of the
North Island. To the itinerant
traveller the forest is a fine
sight, green and to all out-
ward appearances healthy, but a
close-up view isn’t quite so satis-
fying. N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd., says it’s not worried, but
after watching trees die here
and there over the past year or
two it can’t be happy either.
This is an important job of re-
search. The scientists aren’t
excited but scientists rarely
are, for they usually work in a
slow, painstaking way. They
say every new disease is baffling
until they know how to deal
with it; then it’s often simple,
though sometimes costly.
Fire ranks an easy first among
the hazards to pines. Insects are
among the lesser annoyances.
Most of the problems so far
have been connected with find-
ing the quickest and best way to
turn the trees into wealth as
they come to maturity. Maori-
land has learnt a lot, and has
made some mistakes, as its own
and outside foresters have
pointed out from time to time.
Early last year G. H. Hocking,
senior forester of N.Z.’s Forest
Service, said one of the biggest
blunders was in putting too
many of the country’s “exotic
eggs” in “too few baskets” when
pines were planted on the cheap-
est land a quarter of a century
or more ago. He had a crack
at the pioneers for converting
the roof of the North Island
into a concentrated pine-forest
area, which would involve costly
distribution to serve the needs
of all parts of N.Z. for a long
time to come.
This was an opinion colored
by interest mainly in the sawn-
timber trade, which, of course,
will be one of the main sources
of profit as the industry works
up into top gear, but there’s
another point of view, as the
planners of pulp-and-paper
manufacture agree. When plants
as big as those now being run-
in or in the building stage are
established there’s a great ad-
vantage in having an inexhaust-
ible supply of trees close at
hand.
Nearly 800,000 acres out of
900.000 planted in exotics since
the ’twenties are under pines,
585.000 Pinus radiata and
210.000 other species of the
family. Most experts think N.Z.
did the right thing in going in
strongly for radiata, which is a
first-class tree that thrives under
N.Z. conditions. Barring the
odd dead tree that is showing
up today, Maoriland certainly
made what seems an ideal
choice for its soil and climate.
When it comes to future
planning, some change in policy
to give greater variety to the
forests might be in N.Z.’s inter-
ests, and foresters are looking
into this now. A top-ranking
authority. Professor Hugo
Oswald, of Sweden, a while ago
advised N.Z. to go in more for
quality and less for quantity in
future planting. Said he: “It’s
natural that interest in forestry
up to the present stage has been
focused on Pinus radiata, but
the time has come to pay more
attention to production of more
valuable timber, including not
only exotics, but also many ex-
tremely valuable native trees.”
He advised New Zealanders to
put more effort into forest-man-
agement silviculture, thinning
and pruning and asked why
N.Z. relied so much on the out-
side world to train its foresters.
Sweden had most to offer N.Z.,
and there should be a greater
exchange of forestry students
between the two countries.
To help offset the fall in the
price of metals the big silver-
lead-zinc mining cos. at the
Barrier (N.S.W.) have stepped-
up their ore-treatment and
metal-recovery figures. During
1953 Zinc Corp., one of Con-
solidated Zinc Corp.’s subsidi-
aries, put 542,588 tons (up
43,306 tons) crudes through the
mill for 78,066 tons (up 21,482
tons) lead and 108,426 tons (up
21,073 tons) zinc concentrates.
Its up-and-coming neighbor and
associate. New Broken Hill
Consolidated, milled 403,662
tons (up 168,184 tons) crudes
for 32,459 tons (up 14,029 tons)
lead and 100,356 tons (up
48,318 tons) zinc concentrates.
The average London spot-prices
for lead and zinc fell from
£5149.7 and £5149.2 respec-
tively for 1952 to £591.7 and
£572.1 respectively for 1953.
However, each co. has main-
tained its div. at the same rate
as for 1952—N.8.H. 30 p.c.
(stg.) and Consolidated Zinc
Corp. 15 p.c. (stg.), each subject
to English income tax; and, as
the outlook became more
settled, the market lengthened its
bid for the scrip. N.B.H.’s f.-p.
ss. shares are priced at 265. 6d., as
against a low of 235. in 1953.
Consolidated Zinc’s f.-p. £1
ords., which had dropped to
265. 6d. in 1953, now fetch
365. 6d.
* * * *
.N.Z.’s first paper mill, at
N.Z. Forest Products’ £7m.
Kinleith plant, has been turn-
ing out brown commercial
paper since mid-November, and
a big step has been taken
towards making N.Z. indepen-
dent of imported supplies. The
scheduled output is 15,000 tons
of kraft paper yearly. Along-
side, the pulp mill which got
into action in August has a tar-
get of 25,000 tons of pulp a
year, half of it for Tasmanian
mills. Half a million tons of
logs a year will feed the pulp
mill. N.Z. is now on the look-
out for overseas orders for pulp
and paper, which will be the
real test for the new industry.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
For the past week Sydney has been a
sparkling flutter of color, excitement and
sunshine. The streets, with their winding
ways and odd angles, have used those
very qualities to spring surprise after
surprise of vivid decoration upon the
astonished eye. Blue-and-red, white-and-
green, henna, orange, golden, emerald —
the standard-banners line the streets and
draw together the decorations on the
buildings.
Then the crowds themselves have
made waves of surging color as they
swept in their gay summer clothes to
catch a glimpse of the Queen. From
point to point they moved, girls and boys
from the offices, young mothers with their
babies and toddlers, old folk camped on
the footpath for hours and resourceful
young men equipped with ladders, chairs,
boxes and even lunch-tables. It has been
like a carnival in the sunshine wherever
the Queen went, and spirits have been
gay even in the streets and byways where
the traffic banked-up in a way even
Sydney never dreamed of before.
The excitement began on the morning
the Queen landed in Australia, when
approximately two million people opened
a fearful eye on the sunrise and then
heaved a sigh of relief when they saw
the clear sky and the tip of the yellow
sun.
At 8 a.m. the Gothic passed between
the Heads, gleaming white and flying the
Red Ensign. . Then from every foreshore
cam© ringing cheers for the Queen and
the Duke who stood on the bridge, and
all the hundreds of little boats raised
their sails and their bunting as they fell
into a procession with the ship. Behind
them the water glittered whit© and foam-
ing in sparkling wake, a sight which
alone would have repaid the watchers on
the headlands, many of whom had been
camped there for 24 hours.
In Farm Cove a rose-red carpet pat-
terned with fleur-de-lys had been unrolled
on the dove-grey pontoon and the dais,
and early the Parliamentarians, the judges
and the church dignitaries began to
arrive.
The Hon. R. G. Casey, Minister for
External Affairs, could perhaps be
awarded the palm here, for his whole
morning-suit and top-hat were grey.
The Speaker of th© House and the
President of the Legislative Council
looked rather Eighteenth-century in full-
bottomed wigs, breeches, gowns and
buckled shoon, a little as if the strong
sunshine might perhaps shrivel them up.
At 10 o’clock the guard of honor from
H.M.A.S. Albatross arrived, dressed in
sparkling white and marching - with
exquisite precision. They were a little
early, so the standard-bearer paraded the
Queen’s colors and everybody cheered
again.
Then came that series of launch-
journeys as the Governor-General, the
Governor, the Prime Minister and the
Premier went separately to the Gothic to
pay their respects. Sir William Slim
looked dazzling in a white uniform, a
red sash, rows of glittering medals and
the star of the Order of the Bath. Sir
John Northcott also wore a white uniform
and was almost equally resplendent. Mr,
Menzies and Mr. Cahill wore morning-
suits.
At last a rising cheer along the lane-
way of decorated boats told that the
Royal barge was approaching, and as it
came alongside the pontoon every head
was turned to catch a glimpse of the
Queen of Australia alighting in this coun-
try for th© first time.
In the blue, diamond-like glitter of the
Australian morning, the Queen seemed
like a moon-spirit, slender, fragile, girlish,
a little nervous, a little vulnerable. Her
dress was a delicate cream chiffon, pat-
terned with wheat-sheaves in yellow and
golden-brown, her hat a tiny flower of
white organdie petals. She wore three
rows of pearls and pearl earrings, and a
diamond brooch on her fichu collar.
Her shoes, handbag and gloves were
white. The Duke of Edinburgh looked
tall, bronzed and handsome in the white
uniform of an Admiral.
There was a rather “dead spot” of
silence as the Queen received the digni-
taries on the pontoon, but the great
moment came when she stepped from the
pontoon to Australian soil proper, and as
she faced the guard the whole assembly
sang “God Save the Queen.” It was a
stirring moment for Sydney, proud of its
beautiful city, joyful at its monarch’s
arrival.
After the Queen had spoken in her
clear, girlish voice of her happiness to
be at last in Australia —“a nation which
has achieved so much in such a short
space of time” —she set off on her
drive through the city, preceded by 14
police on motor-cycles (which delighted
the children) and followed by a rather
funereal procession of cars.
Then it was that the rushing waves and
colorful flutterings of the crowds began
as they swept over the lawns to see the
Queen from another angle of Farm Cove,
and somehow the movement and the
birdlike brilliance of the crowds seemed
to go on for the whole six days that
the Queen was in Sydney.
Even at night the sense of vibrancy
continued. Watching the fireworks dis-
play from the north side of the harbor
on the night of the Queen’s arrival, the
illuminations of the city made it glow
like a fairy place with golden spires and
domes of shimmering jade. Even the
great bulk of the bridge took on an
unearthly quality in its haze of moonstone
light.
In our hearts perhaps we knew that
these magic castles were really the
old Queen Victoria Buildings and the
Registrar-General’s Department and the
A.W.A. tower, etc., but for the time our
eyes were bewitched and we saw our city
showing forth that beauty which we who
love her know that she possesses all the
time.
How to describe that vivid, kaleido-
scopic week? Looking back, it seems
that the functions held in the outdoors
were the most successful, even though
the rally of ex-Servicemen and -women
in Hyde Park did call up the Austra-
lian’s sacred right to grumble to some
extent, for many bemedalled ex-warriors
turned-up to the gathering but few got
within cooee of the Queen. “Well, at
least we can’t complain about the
organisation,” said one old soldier.
“There isn’t any.”
Still, there is no doubt that the gather-
ings of 120,000 schoolchildren in the
Showground, Cricket Ground and Cen-
tennial Park were really joyous, both
for the children and for the Queen.
Wherever her Majesty and the Duke
arrived the children raised a clear, con-
tinuous cheer that made the welkin ring
and their applause never ceased so long
as the Royal couple, standing in their
Land-Rover, and winding in and out
among them, remained within hearing.
The Queen, herself looking very
youthful in a blue organdie dress patterned
in white and a tiny white hat, must have
been feeling the heat very much, but her
smile and that of the Duke grew more
and more radiant as the children greeted
them. It was noticeable through the
whole visit that the Queen is strengthened
and stimulated by cheering.
The State Banquet, an indoor affair,
naturally, held in David Jones’s dining-
hall, was voted a very successful affair
because of the dazzling beauty of the
Queen, who wore a yellow tulle evening-
dress embroidered with sequinned wattle
(designed by Hartnell for the cancelled
tour), together with her favorite tiara
and diamond necklace. The affair was
also notable for the glorious flower-
arrangements ; but it is rather hard to
see what the use of such banquets is. The
Queen meets very few citizens at them,
and most of those are in official positions
and likely to meet her at other functions.
Something went very seriously wrong
with the ball, which should have been
the most glamorous function of the
week. Two thousand people had been
invited by the Lord Mayor, and, in spite
of the milling crowds outside, many
arrived as early as 7.30. These quickly
filled the seats in the galleries and the
chairs round the hall, so that latecomers
just “stood around,” fearful that it might
not be etiquette to dance before the
Queen arrived, and nearly all very, very
hot and longing for something to drink,
for the only liquid (or other) refresh-
ment available was to be had from the
water-bubblers in the corridors.
The Queen was due to arrive at 9.30,
so the guests in the body of the hall
formed two lines on each side of the
red carpet and they were asked to curtsy
as the Queen passed by to the dais. The
difficulty was that “those behind cried
‘forward,’ while those in front cried
‘back’,” so that there was a certain
amount of huddle and refined shoving
and the curtsy when it came looked
more like a mass-stagger than the grace-
ful undulation of bows that was
envisaged.
The Queen wore a spectacular dress
of cream faille with garlands of huge
padded white roses and black leaves on
the skirt and with it a triangular tiara
set solidly with diamonds. She looked
fragile after her exhausting day, but was
smiling and gracious.
As soon as her Majesty reached the
dais a solid block of people took up their
position on each side of her and, from
a distance of a few feet, stared unremit-
tingly at her for the whole time she was
present. From the galleries the same
hypnotic gaze was directed at her, and
the few polite people who danced at the
other end of the hall caught only a
fleeting glimpse of her over the sight-
seers’ shoulders. Many sought presenta-
tion without being invited, and the
Queen was on her feet for the whole 40
minutes she was present. It was not sur-
prising that the Royal party took their
departure within an hour of their arrival.
It was fortunate that supper was
served immediately after the Queen and
the Duke had left, otherwise there might
have been a thirst-maddened stampede
on the decorative waterfall. As it was,
champagne relieved the drought, but
couldn’t save the party. By 12.30 the
ball, which was scheduled to go till
2 a.m., was virtually over.
Anyone looking at the ball through a
keyhole and seeing one dress at a time
might be excused for thinking it (a) the
best-dressed affair of the century or ( b )
the worst-dressed, so varying was the
the standard. Elizabeth Northcott looked
enchanting in white tulle with an over-
skirt of white lace and two pink roses at
the waist. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
P. D. Hills, wore a shimmering gown of
tangerine gauze, Madame Strauss, wife
of the French Consul-General, upheld
the sartorial reputation of her nation in
a hyacinth-blue satin gown with a train.
Miss Norma Rhodes White, of Port
Macquarie, wore a charming dress of pink
organza spotted with white. Mrs. J.
McGirr’s mushroom lace over pink
nylon, embroidered with opalescent
sequin flowers, was very pretty ; also Mrs.
T. A, Field’s grey-and-pink tulle with its
satin swathes threading the skirt very
strikingly. There were many other lovely
frocks, but there were some real horrors,
too. Certainly there was no justification
for calling the ball (which “wasn’t a ball
at all”) well-dressed generally. The
tiaras, one felt, were a mistake, though
Lady Lloyd Jones’s, which looked the
real thing, was elegant.
Over 100 women’s organisations were
represented at the luncheon at the
Trocadero, and the Queen seemed ani-
mated and interested here. Her dress
was a white-and-green cotton patterned
with Tudor roses and her hat a vivid
emerald-green with two white faille
bows on each side. The speech by Mrs.
Gertrude Melville, M.L.C., was simple
and sincere, its burden being that
the women of Australia had watched the
Queen grow up with love and interest,
had sorrowed and rejoiced with her, had
been inspired by her example and now
welcomed her with great joy.
After the luncheon was over the
guests “souvenired” the green tulle and
the pink tiger-lilies which had adorned
the Royal table together with pink roses
and dahlias. Each guest also took along
the printed menu as a souvenir, and one
lucky guest souvenired this Letter’s best
silk umbrella.
Generally speaking, it would seem that
the Queen shines more brightly by night
than by day, but an exception must be
made of the races. Her eyes sparkled to
see the horses she obviously loves
them. At Randwick (more spick-and-
span, groomed, beflowered and brilliant
than that course has ever been before)
she was all vitality and excitement. She
wore a yellow dress with deep tucks
above the skirt-hem and a cap of yellow
silky feathers, a dress which she also
wore in Suva. She looked a slender
figure as she presented the cup to Mrs.
W. Kelly, of Cooringle, Boorowa, one
of the part-owners of Blue Ocean, winner
of the Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
and she seemed amused when H. Dar-
won, trainer of the horse, excitedly told
her how it came to win, bowing six or
seven times as he did so.
After the race the Queen and the
Duke drove through cheering crowds
to Bondi, where the surf carnival held
them entranced for nearly two hours.
At the gay and casual scene here, the
excitement of the surf-boat races and the
crowds in sun-clothes and informal dresses
gave the Queen a sunny picture of Aus-
tralian outdoor life. It was felt that she
was refreshed and repaid for her arduous
duties on the previous day when she
was in the public eye from 10 in the
morning till 6 at night and later attended
the ball at 9.30 p.m. Obviously, such a
day was too long for one so slight and
fragile, though the Duke, who seems
vigorous, interested and strong, appeared
to stand the strain very well indeed.
It is hard to believe that the Queen
has been with us in person during this
past week, that she will be briefly with
us again next week. It is like having a
dream become reality, a picture come to
life. She has drawn all people together
here and made Sydney a place of gaiety
and charm, its people friendly and merry,
its life exuberantly happy.


Missing Friends
GEORGE CHRISTOPHER MORANT last
heard of at Albert Park in 1931. —Will
anyone knowing the present address of the
abovenamed please communicate with
ABBOTT, STILLMAN & WILSON,
Solicitors, 422 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
WILLIAM MILLER BUCHANAN and
CHARLES PAKENHAM BUCHANAN
INFORMATION regarding the abovenamed,
formerly of 52 Hill Street, Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane, or their relatives or
descendants, who are entitled to share in
a deceased estate would be appreciated
by THOMAS McCORMAOK, Solicitor,
HeindorS House, 171 Queen Street, Bris-
bane.
FLY BRITISH —to alt
site- - .
Six Continents
1..
Speedbird Services
link Australia with—>
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma,
Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan,
Ceylon, India, Pakistan,
Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central and South
America, Bermuda.
Consult your Travel Agent for
free advice.
fc&jjfl
7€
n r^mt
ACROSS THE WURID
8.0.A.C. takes good care of every passenger, but especially
good care of babies travelling with parents and children travelling
it
alone. Special foods, drinks and all those comforts these
young travellers need are supplied by attentive,
well-trained stewardesses. Concession rates
apply for infants and school children —
and students to the age of 26.
8.0.A.C. links 51 countries on all
6 continents. Stop-overs at no
extra fare. No tips ;no extras.
8.0.A.C. LEADS WITH THE COMET I
FOR POST HASTE WITHOUT WASTE—USE OVERSEAS AIR MAIL
ẁ
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Ainoays Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
;'i A'ff’ 7 1 ' ***. t'*i ' V,‘ * ' \ •
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND
S.A.A.
A4I/AU
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
George Wallace
George Wallace made a very
welcome reappearance on the
Sydney stage the other evening
and, as “Sophie, the Sort on the
Bus,” asked, among other things,
“ ’Ave you ever been ’it on the
face with a mullet —one of the
ninepenny ones with the gills still
in it?” Now, being hit on the
face with a mullet might be only
a mildly-amusing idea, but when
you add the ninepence and the
gills it immediately becomes a
human and highly comic bit of
back-street observation.
It is precisely that sort of
humor, together, of course, with
Wallace’s wonderfully expressive
phiz and confidential delivery,
that makes him one of the best
two entertainers on the Austra-
lian vaudeville stage (and one
is tempted to omit the “vaude-
ville”), and places him in the
same bracket with humorists like
Emile Mercier and the late
Lennie Lower.
The programme which in-
cludes Wallace is “Thanks for
the Memory,” at the new Pal-
ladium —the old Civic film-house
taken over by the Celebrity
Circuit for the commendable
purposes of vaudeville. The bill
also includes such funny and
familiar people as Jim Gerald,
Morry Barling and Beryl
Meekin ; and such old-time and
rather magnificent warblers as
Queenie Paul, Millie Hansen and
Maggie Buckley.
The “variety” part of the
business is assured by Jandy
the musical clown ; the two Ran-
dows, a remarkably spectacular
pair of jugglers; the Nicoli
Brothers, with their comical
acrobatic dancing ; and a chorus
of lovelies reported to have been
brought from Melbourne —if
that is so, they are quite the
most fetching export Victoria
has sent tQ Sydney since Federa-
tion.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Call Me Madam”
“Call Me Madam,” now at
Sydney Royal, was favorably
reviewed here after its Melbourne
opening. It has been received in
Sydney with applause appro-
priate to Miss Evie Hayes’s
strenuous, slapstick vitality in the
principal role —Miss Hayes’s
voice alone was not equal to the
raucous standard she set for the
part.
The outstanding features of
the production are the exhilarat-
ing ballets, full of life and merri-
ment, and through them the little
Australian dancer, Carol
Deague, flew like a bird.
The show seems set for a long
run, judging by the unrestrained
applause and the laughter which
greeted the jokes. The latter
may, of course, have been due
to relief at finding there were
jokes as a change from the joke-
less “South Pacific.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Borovansky Ballet
Borovansky is back in Mel-
bourne (at Her Majesty’s), and
as much and more can be said
for his ballet as has been said
before. Boro, is a master in the
great tradition, and he carries
it on, so that one sees the old
conventions honored with such
ease and confidence and skill
that one gets caught up in the
convention and falls in love
with the artistry of it.
The season opened, conven-
tionally, with “Swan Lake,” and
when the orchestra plays the
lovely music and Tschaikowsky
brings in that “tot, tot, tot, tit,
tit, tit,” and the pretty little
swans with their bits of plum-
age start totting and fitting so
gracefully and nimbly, you for-
get the artificiality of it, the lack
of robustness, and admire the
extraordinary skill of the pre-
sentation and the beautiful
classicism of Peggy, Sager’s
dancing as the Queen of the
Swans.
“Symphonic Fantastique” was
the main offering of the even-
ing, and it would be difficult to
imagine a more sinister collec-
tion of monsters, witches,
ghouls, vampires, ’ spectres,
furies, monks and devils than
that which populates the stage
during the fourth movement of
the Berlioz piece. Paul Grinwis
is the tortured musician and the
Beloved is danced by a young
Hungarian, Anna Mariya, who
is a lovely woman and a lovely
dancer.
“Le Beau Danube” wound-up
the proceedings and was notable
for the almost traditional ap-
pearance of Borovansky him-
self as the Strong Man, and for
Claudie Algeranova’s version of
the Street Dancer.
++♦ *i* i*
“Caesar and Cleopatra”
It has been observed of the
opening production of the
National Theatre’s Royal Visit
season at Melbourne Princess
that Leon Peers provided two
young a Caesar —that he should
have been a solemn, dignified old
man imposing his aged import-
ance on a flighty young girl.
That, however, is the opposite
of Shaw’s intention. Caesar’s
body is old, but his mind is
young; Cleopatra’s body is
young, but her mind is as stale
and old-fashioned as her
grandma’s. She never comes out
with an idea in the whole play
that any old Pharaoh would have
disapproved of. She is cruel,
sanguinary and sentimental, as
ungregarious as a tiger and as
revengeful as a savage.
Qesar is calm, reasonable and
clement, and can’t even feel
irritated when Photinus tries to
kill him. His experience as a
conqueror has taught him that
clemency pays bigger dividends
than inclemency, and he acts on
his belief even when Cleopatra
herself does the dirty on him.
That is the reason why Caesar
has such an effect on Cleopatra
that she is prepared to have her-
self rolled-up in a carpet and dis-
patched to him as a present when
he is beleaguered on a lighthouse
with all Egypt up against him—
Mr. Peers makes that point
very nicely. He appears to have
understood Shaw, and the same
could be said with reservations
of Kathie Reed as Cleopatra,
thought not of June Brown as
Ftatateeta, Claude Thomas as
Theodotus or Peter Norton as
Britannus. Norton got more
laughs than anybody else, but
that was because he was the
vehicle for Shaw’s familiar digs
at the British nation.
Apart from Peers’s perform-
ance the show was not a very dis-
tinguished opening for a Royal
festival of the arts in the Queen
City of the South,
Artbursts
The Holly Group, which was
born in more-or-less Parisian-
style in a cafe, is showing the
mettle of its pasture once more
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne.
Reshid Bey, who wields the
brush on the largest canvas, is
tending to become too illustra-
tive —“The Red Scarf” is a
portrait of a pleasant-looking
model who hasn’t been given
sufficient atmosphere to breathe
in. Ewin J. French’s water-
colors around Lysterfield, Tool-
leen and Benalla are picturesque
in subject-matter but a trifle
tepid, and much the same may
be said of Gordon A. Speary’s
attenuated “Pine Group,” “Wil-
liamstown” and “Still-life.”
Graham Moore has more
robustness. His “David” (por-
trait of a boy), reminiscent of
Mclnnes, has a warmth of
light which Moore also gets
into his Olinda landscape. Don
Morrow’s still-life belong more
to the academic. W. V. Manders
has a high-keyed view of War-
randyte, which is quite pleasing.
Talkies
“Le Plaisir”'
This French filming of three
Maupassant short-stories kicks-
off with the one about the
ancient roue who tries to revive
his youthful successes by
donning the mask of a hand-
some young man and flopping
about at a gala ball. It’s slight,
but nicely done.
The second item is “Maison
Tellier,” that glorious story of
a seaport brothel-keeper who
takes her entire staff of young
ladies to attend the first com-
munion of her niece in a farm-
ing village, which feels im-
mensely honored by the visit.
The sight of young purity makes
them weep for their own lost
virtue, and all the church weeps
with them. Otherwise, every-
body is wonderfully jolly —ex-
cept the “regulars” of Madame
Tellier’s establishment, who are
sitting gloomily about the sea-
port wondering where Madame
and her girls have got to. Only
French actors could act into
this piece the humanity which
Maupassant wrote into it.
The third story is “La
Modele,” the grimly realistic
and yet sentimental tale about
the girl who throws herself from
her indifferent lover’s studio-
window and spends the rest of
her life being pushed around in
a chair by the remorseful artist.
The film is produced by Max
Ophuls, with Peter Ustinov pro-
viding Maupassant’s voice off-
stage. All the stars of the
French film-firmament seem to
be in the business Danielle
Darrieux, Simone Simon, Jean
Servais, Claude Dauphin, Jean
Cabin and Daniel Gelin —and
there isn’t a bad-’un among ’em.
At Melbourne Savoy,
&
“Malta Story”
The epic quality of Malta’s
war-time defence is thoroughly
captured by this magnificent
English film, which was made on
the spot. Two of England’s best
film-actors handle the main roles.
As the air-officer commanding,
who has to fight the Luftwaffe
on a shoestring until the Spitfires
begin to arrive in quantity. Jack
Hawkins is the embodiment of
strength, determination and
authority; a man who exudes
confidence and inspires it in
others. Alec Guinness is a photo-
reconnaissance pilot who
shadows a big convoy of supplies
for Rommel and “goes in” him-
self when he uses his radio to
flash the news to the R.A.F.
squadrons lest oncoming dark-
ness should rob them of the kill.
There are skilfully-added light
touches to give relief to the
drama, and a romance between
the p.-r. pilot and a Maltese girl
(Muriel Pavlow) who works in
the R.A.F. operations-room.
There is a brief but remarkably
sincere piece of work by Flora
Robson as a loyal Maltese
mother whose traitor-son is cap-
tured by the British. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Flat Top”
This war film from Hollywood
is away down the other end of
the scale. Purporting to be the
part played by a U.S. carrier
just before McArthur’s invasion
of the Philippines, the over-
emotionalised story is trite, and
the documentary combat-shots
poorly integrated with the fiction.
The same old Zero comes into
the U.S. fighter-pilot’s sights to
be monotonously blasted and
burned, and the grounded partly-
disgraced pilot, allowed to take
the air in an emergency, covers
himself with glory exactly as does
the under-the-cloud football hero
who rushes on to the field in the
last few minutes of the grid-game
to demoralise the opposition.
Sterling Hayden and Richard
Carlson do nothing to help lift
it out of the ruck. At Sydney
Palace.
* ❖ ❖
“Torch Song”
Another behind-the-scenes-on-
Broadway opus, the target this
time being that hardy perennial
the dictatorial, temperamental
leading lady in whose eyes every-
one is wrong but herself. Joan
Crawford rolls a cold eye over
playwright, stage-manager, lead-
ing man and tycoon-backer with
equal scorn, but she folds up
when a gentle, blind pianist
ignores her tantrums and tells
ber some home-truths. At
Sydney St. James.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
~7~ HIS time Swan made it
S nicely. Sherwood felt the
V j bump as the Fury’s wing
kicked up. Then again.
Swan spoke.
“I’m coming in again, Dick.
Loosened her quite a bit that
time. She’s just hanging by the
tail. Next time should do it.
Stand-by.”
In the few brief seconds which
passed while Swan positioned
himself again, Sherwood had
time to feel a peculiarly warm
regard for his runty, gnome-faced
friend. Out there, shafting
expertly up towards him. Swan
was displaying outstanding flying
ability. Displaying, as well, con-
siderable guts.
“Stand-by, sir,” Blake said
evenly. They both waited, per-
fectly still, for the bump.
Swan, under the wing, had
actually moved his stick to lift
his own. It touched the stub-
born bomb, briefly. Then,
abruptly, an air-pocket dropped
Swan’s Fury, down 30ft., in
under the Firefly. The bomb
dropped.
“She’s gone, sir,” cried Blake.
Then, in a shocked voice:
“Christ!”
Alarmed at the vehemence of
the cry, Sherwood stared out and
down. A ball of tension knotted
in his stomach, choking into his
throat. He had time, before it
dropped beyond visual recogni-
tion, to see Swan’s cockpit,
crushed open by the half-ton
weight of metal; to see Swan
himself, his battered head forced
out through the perspex, the rest
of his body hidden under the
man-high bomb.
Then the Fury was far below
them, spinning, hurtling, towards
the calm blue face of the waiting
sea.
Stunned, Sherwood watched
the stricken fighter ; saw it hit in
a brief splash of white, a slowly
growing ulcer of froth on the
blue. He closed his eyes, his
face twisted as though from
physical hurt under the pain of
his grief.
Yet even under the shock one
part of his brain worked,
instinctively automatic.
“This is Strike Leader.
Reform. Over.”
He did not hear the answering
“Wilco.”
Sherwood’s face was granite-
hard when he climbed from his
aircraft and turned towards the
bridge. His eyes were stony,
staring straight ahead of him at
the door in the superstructure.
He pushed through the group of
firefighters. One stumbled as
he drew back hastily from the
striding figure.
“What’s up with him? 1 ’ he
mumbled, looking after him.
“Want all the bloody flight-
deck?”
Sherwood walked steadily
down the ladder, and aft through
the steel tunnels till he reached
his cabin. He stepped in, pulled
the curtain automatically, and
sat down at his desk, his helmet
still on. He reached slowly
forward across the desk, unsee-
ingly, and took out a cigarette
from the tin. As though in a
trance, his face a lined mask, he
put the cigarette in his mouth,
and lit it.
He was sitting hunched at his
desk, smoking, the cigarette
clamped between his lips, staring
straight at the pigeonholes
before him, when Baumer
stepped in.
The Commander Air stared at
him. Sherwood seemed perfectly
normal, sitting there, smoking—
when he should have been in the
debriefing-room. Baumer could
not see his eyes.
The big man’s voice was snarly
when he spoke. Once again he
had the hated Sherwood on the
hip.
“Sherwood, why aren’t you in
the briefing-room?”
The Strike Leader did not
answer, nor did he turn his head.
“Sherwood,” Baumer cracked,
“what the hell are you doing
here? We’re waiting ...”
Sherwood turned his head,
slowly, and looked at Baumer.
He took the cigarette from his
lips. Its long ash fell, unheeded,
into his lap.
“Swan,” he said, his voice a
croak.
Baumer waved his hand
irritably.
“Yes, I know. Damned bad
luck. But we’re waiting on a
mission report. We can’t keep
the whole ship waiting for one
aircraft lost. We’ve lost pilots
before.”
Sherwood got up slowly, one
hand lifting his chair back. He
stared at Baumer.
“What did you say?”
“I said,” Baumer repeated
irritably, “we’ve lost men
before.”
For the first time since he had
landed a light of intelligence
came into the Strike Leader’s
eyes. His brain assimilated
Baumer’s last remark. Wonder-
ingly, he stared at the other, so
that Baumer stepped back a pace,
vaguely alarmed.
We’ve lost pilots before. Yes,
we’ve lost pilots before. Now
we’ve lost Swannie . . .
His face started to work. And
this fat slob is alive. Alive —
while the whitest, bravest man I
ever knew is mangled, crushed
to pulp . . .
He glared at Baumer’s red,
white-scarred face. A film of
blind rage formed over his
reason. He stepped forward,
swiftly, lithe as a tiger. He hit
Baumer; hit him in the chest
with a shocking blow that hurled
him back against the bunk, the
force of the punch causing his
back to arch as it struck the
edge, and his head to jolt hack
further, almost touching the
counterpane, his eyes wide, glar-
ing at the deck-head, in pain and
astonishment.
Sherwood grabbed Baumer’s
shirt, bunching it in his great
fist so that it stretched skin-tight
across his shoulders. With one
heave he jerked him upright on
to his feet, and, still holding his
shirt, smashed his right hand
with cruel, ripping blows into
Baumer’s solar and chest.
Baumer was helpless under
that flail. He gasped and choked,
his hands striving with unscien-
tific and futile desperation to
push his tormentor off.
Some semblance of sense, of
distorted appreciation of the con-
sequences, kept Sherwood’s fist
off Baumer’s face. In red rage
he continued smashing, while
Baumer’s eyes rolled, wildly, and
he sagged, in pitiful exhaustion,
in Sherwood’s clutching hand.
Sherwood stepped back and
icleased his grip. Slowly flexing
his cramped fingers, he watched
Baumer slide down the edge of
the bunk and crumple in a chok-
ing mass on the deck, his breath
coming in animal-like sobs, a
horrid, groaning fight for breath.
The sight of his enemy, help-
less and cruelly hurt, cleared
Sherwood’s brain. Staring at the
gasping figure, he felt a sudden
surge of pity and shame. In
Sherwood’s trained hands
Baumer had offered as much
effective resistance as a woman.
The commander’s words came
back suddenly to Sherwood.
“You bloody great hero.”
The sense of his shame made
him bend, and strive to lift
Baumer from the deck. What
sense Baumer had left showed m
his staring eyes as he saw the
movement —they glared wildly
up at him like a beaten dog’s
waiting helplessly for the next
cruel lashing. Feebly he put out
his hand to ward Sherwood off.
Sherwood almost sobbed as he
saw the gesture, so acute was his
reaction from unreasoning rage
to awareness of his cruel bully-
ing in smashing a man who had,
comparatively, no boxing training
whatever.
“It’s all right, Baumer,” he
mumbled, stupidly. He could
not bring himself to utter the
banal “I’m sorry.” He got his
big arms under the other’s
shoulders, and heaved him up-
right. Baumer swayed against
him, his eyes shut under the
agony of breathing.
“Take you to your cabin,”
Sherwood muttered.
At the words Baumer opened
his eyes, to stare bemusedly into
Sherwood’s. He shook his head,
slowly, and gestured weakly to
the bunk. Understanding at
once, Sherwood helped him over,
and up. Baumer lay stretched
out, his hands on his chest, his
head turned away from Sher-
wood, to the ship’s side.
Sherwood watched him a
moment, the purple face and the
heaving chest, then turned slowly
and walked to the door, his
awareness of Baumer’s sense of
discipline in remaining in the
cabin till he could walk,
unnoticed, to his own, making a
mockery of the Strike Leader’s
shamefully undisciplined
conduct.
Sherwood walked next-door to
Swan’s cabin, remembering with
a dull ache of grief that this one
would be unoccupied. He sat
inside for almost an hour, his
head in his hands, his mind a
turmoil. If Baumer should report
to the captain—as, of course, he
would —Sherwood was finished.
He felt strangely disinterested in
the consequences of his action.
When, through sheer physical
exhaustion and the grief of loss,
added to shame, you feel as low
as ever you’ve felt in your life,
your future career seems of
remote interest. Being the man
he was, Sherwood’s turmoil
stemmed from consciousness of
the cowardly—it amounted to
that, considering his boxing
eminence—attack on Baumer.
When at last he returned to
his own cabin, he found it empty.
He was peeling off his flying-
overalls when the curtain pulled
aside and the cheerful face of the
Marine intelligence-officer poked
in.
“Ah, there you are, Dick!
Where in hell have you been? I
was thinking of organising a
hunt.”
He broke off and stared at
Sherwood’s lined face.
“Here, old boy—you all
right?”
Sherwood forced a grin.
“Yes, Duncan,” he lied. “Just
tired —tired as hell.”
He saw the questions forming
on the other’s face, and got in
quickly.
“Worrying about your damned
reports, eh? Give me time to
shower, will you? Then I’ll give
you the guts.”
The debriefing-officer nodded,
and withdrew. At the door he
hesitated.
“Er—Dick. Bloody sorry
about Swannie, old man.”
Sherwood nodded back, his
lips pinched in. The other
dropped the curtain. Words were
less than useless. Poor bastard’s
all in, he thought. And he’s not
the only one —remembering the
strained faces of the young flyers
he had been questioning. He
walked leisurely back to the de-
briefing-room, there to wait the
Strike Leader’s report.
CHAPTER XIII
WHETHER intentionally or
not, Baumer got his
revenge in full on the run back to
Kure. Every time a messenger
or messmate knocked at his cabin
door, Sherwood thought “This
is it.” And every time the false
alarm walked out again, Sher-
wood sat down in his chair, to
await the next, and final, visitor.
He had given no thought to his
defence before the captain—
simply because he had none. His
fate was completely in the senior
officer’s hands.
By the time they had rounded
southern Korea, and were run-
ning through the island-cluttered
Inland Sea, with still no call to
the captain’s cabin, Sherwood
realised, with something of a
shock, that Baumer was waiting.
On a charge like this —and there
were few more serious—he would
feel more secure with all the aids
to discipline-enforcement the
huge naval base carried —guards,
particularly, to march the
offender ashore.
While the ship was berthing,
Sherwood dressed himself in his
best drill suit, perversely deter-
mined to look his best for the
execution. He couldn’t think of
an occasion when a man’s
appearance would benefit him
less.
He walked on to the holy-
stoned quarter-deck at 11, sweat-
ing a little in the muggy heat
of the morning, though here, with
the flight-deck for roof, it was
comparatively cool.
He paced slowly up and
down, his cap under his arm,
outwardly watching the dockyard
idly, now and again glancing
across to Dart, nosing her buoy
half a mile across the harbor.
Inside, there was a tense ball
knotting in his guts.
Sherwood had never felt so
alone as he did now. It had
taken Swan’s death to make him
realise that the ugly, cheerful
little fighter-pilot had been his
only real friend in the ship.
Apart from his comparative
eminence of rank, all his pilots
were too young to interest him
socially. Normally, Commander
Air might have been almost a
bedfellow —their ages, rank and
professional interests were prac-
tically identical. But Baumer. ••
The conscious thought of
Baumer brought Sherwood to a
halt, beside the big bollards on
which they had sat when Swan
first told him they were heading
for Kure —it seemed, years aga
Slowly, irritation at the
thought of Baumer grew to a
dull anger. The apprehensive
SYNOPSIS
For three gruelling weeks
Hawk’s aircraft have been
almost constantly in action : the
strain is telling on her young
pilots. Swan has been saved
from crashing by the expert
flying of Sherwood and his
deputy: a game little Auster
pilot has been killed by enemy
machine-gun fire ; and Hawk’s
brood have flown off for the
biggest, and final, sortie before
returning for badly-needed rest
to Kure. Loading 10001 b.
bombs, they have destroyed a
large bridge. But Sherwood’s
dangerous cargo has failed to
release. Swan comes up be-
neath him to try to jerk the
bomb loose with his wingtip. A
sudden air-pocket drops him in
under Sherwood’s Firefly.
Tensed, Sherwood and his
observer wait as Swan shafts up
again for another try.


streamlined good-looks and engineering skill Jjg
Um&m*
zsmmjk
As English as England.
For over 50 years Vauxhall engineering has led the British car
industry. Each new model has brought new developments, new
luxury to the medium-priced car owner. The current Vauxhall
models carry on this great tradition. See for yourself the stream-
lined grace of these three members of the proud Vauxhall family!
And their outstanding beauty is only the beginning. Drive one
and you’ll find what real pleasure a Vauxhall can give you. That’s
why we ask you to come in soon. The very moment you relax
behind the wheel, the search for your “ideal” car is over.
Illustrated above is the family saloon with spreading comfort for
5-6 people. Like other models shown here, it is available as a
15.63 h.p., 4 cyl. o.h.v.“Wyvern” or a 23.44 h.p., 6 cyl. o.h.v. “Velox”.
Designed for those who delight
in the open road, the Vauxhali
Vagabond has spreading com*
fort for 5-6 people plus a large
luggage boot. A convertible
with sports car performance.
With the new Vauxhali Coupe-
Utility you get the comfort of a
3-passenger Coupe with in-
dependent front suspension
plus 10 cwt. carrying capacity.
List prices: Saloons from £920;
Vagabonds from £900; Utilities from
£890; ALL prices plus Sales Tax,
“VAGABOND” SPORTS TOURER
10 CWT. COUPE UTILITY
Vauxliall
Ask about the G.M.A.C. Con-
fidential Hire Purchase Plan.
Ask too about the built-for-Vaux-
hall “Airchief” Car Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE » ADELAIDE • PERTH
VIB-33
Sold and Serviced by Vouxhall Dealers throughout Australia
waiting Sherwood had experi-
enced on the run across, waiting
for the axe to fall, cringing
almost, had been utterly foreign
to his nature. He had accepted
the attitude unthinkingly, be-
cause of the novelty of his action
which had caused it, and because
he had never outraged discipline
to such a dangerous degree
before. Now, with retribution
imminently upon him, he felt
suddenly and angrily con-
temptuous of what he had been
dreading.
He stared down at the oil-
scummed water, thick with
flotsam, his mouth hard and thin
as knife-blades under his hook
®f a nose. Abruptly, he clapped
his cap on, wheeled and headed
for the ’tween-decks ladder.
Baumer was working on a
sheaf of reports when the knock
came, sharp and decisive. He
grunted “Come in,” and went on
pencilling. He heard the step
beside him, and subconsciously
waited for his visitor to speak.
When he did not, Baumer turned
his head sideways, not looking
up, and stared at the white-clad
legs beside his chair. He knew
at once they were an officer’s. He
lifted his head,
Sherwood saw the familiar
reddening of his neck as Baumer
realised who his visitor was. He
waited.
Baumer’s voice was low and
tense.
“Get out!” he said.
“Commander Baumer,” Sher-
wood started.
The other shut him up with a
gesture.
“Anything you have to say to
me will be in connection with
ship’s duties. And that will come
down through Lieutenant-
Commander Flying. Now get
out.”
Sherwood was momentarily
nonplussed.
“Look here,” he began again.
Quick to notice Sherwood’s
discomfiture, Baumer leaned
back in his chair, his lips twisted
in a snarl.
“You will leave my cabin at
once, or I shall have you put
out with the captain’s
authority.”
Sherwood glared at him.
“That’s just what I’m here
for.” His voice rose. “How
long do you think you’re bloody
well going to keep me on a
string? That’s what I want to
know—when do we see the
captain?”
Ah, thought Baumer. A
sudden exultation filled him. So
that’s how it is. On a string, eh?
Of course. I was a fool not to
see it. On a string, taut and
cutting, all the way across from
the west coast. His sick mind
raced on as he stared at Sher-
wood’s hateful face. While he’d
been trying to make up his mind
on whether to see the captain,
and go through the degradation
of admitting physical inferiority
before a court-martial, Sherwood
was on his string!
Inwardly gloating, his tortured
mind grasping at this chance to
hurt his enemy, aloud he said:
“You’ll see the captain when
I’m ready. Now—get out!”
You bloody swine, thought
Sherwood. He decided, abruptly,
to end his suspense himself.
“Baumer,” he said evenly, “if
you don’t report this to the
captain, I will. Now.”
He was not prepared for the
instant look of fear on Baumer’s
white-scarred face. He saw it,
and a sudden light of realisation
burst in his brain. God, what
an idiot I’ve been! The detest-
able swine’s been playing with
me all the time. Baumer could
not report him to the captain—
now! The first question the Old
Man would ask, his eyes cold,
would be why Baumer had
waited three days to lay his
charge, Sherwood’s attack
should have called for instant
disciplinary action. Only his
grief and physical exhaustion had
prevented him seeing that at the
time. Another thought struck
him, making his hard mouth
widen into a slit of grim triumph.
Even now, it would be his word
against Baumer’s. With no facial
marks, no gasping and choking
for breath, to prove the savagery
of the Strike Leader’s attack.
Baumer was watching the
expression in Sherwood’s face.
He leaned away, instinctively, as
Sherwood bent his length and
laughed in his face.
“Baumer,” he said, his voice
low and suppressed. “You know
—and I know —that now you’ll
never see the Old Man.” The
memory of what he had need-
lessly gone through made Sher-
wood end in a snarl. “You
mongrel,” he rasped, and strode
out.
By the time he made the
quarter-deck again his anger had
cooled. All he felt now was a
lifting elation. The Sword of
Damocles had been firmly lashed
with a hawser. But, blunted, it
still hung over him —in the form
of Baumer’s senior-officer hatred.
From now on he would need to
keep his nose clean.
He was humming when he
stepped on to the white deck, to
see the quartermaster coming
towards him. He saluted.
“Shore phone, sir.”
Better and better, he thought,
trying to hide his grin as he
walked to the phone. There was
only one person who would
phone him from shore. He
picked up the receiver.
“Sherwood.”
“Oh, Dick?”
The sharpness in Natalie’s
voice was lost on him. He
answered gaily.
“Hello, sweetheart! I was on
my way to give your dainty ear
a tinkle. When?”
Natalie was slow in answer-
ing, so that Sherwood repeated
his question.
“When, me darlin’?”
Her voice came back, stow
and deliberate.
“Just as soon as you can.”
“That’s my girl,” he grinned
into the mouthpiece. He felt a
nervous tingling at the import of
Natalie’s words. Whatever else
I thought a few days back, my
beauty, he thought, this is how
I want you now. Eager, and
uninhibited about it.
Aloud, he said; “I’d come
right now, but we couldn’t do
much good, could we?”
Natalie interrupted him.
“Dick —on the phone! ”
“All right, darling,” he
laughed. “Be ready at eight.”
“Yes, I’ll be ready,” she
answered, in the same deliberate
tone. “Goodbye.”
“Hey!” he called. He heard
the click, and stared a moment
at the receiver in his hand.
“Funny,” he muttered. But a
quiet grin was on his face as he
replaced the phone.
He was two paces away when
the phone rang again. Auto-
matically he picked it up.
He felt as though a fist had
smacked into his stomach. The
grin died on his face, leaving it
tight-lipped, his eyes stony.
“Lieutenant - Commander
Swan, please,” the voice had
said.
Sherwood did not answer.
“Hello, is that the carrier
Hawk? Lieutenant-Commander
Swan, please.” The voice held a
hint of impatience.
Sherwood took himself in
hand. Not that she had been
anything to Swannie, but the
casual asking for him, the
assumption of his being eagerly
alive, instead of dead, had
shocked him.
“Is that you, Beryl? Sher-
wood here,” he said huskily.
“Oh, yes, Dick. How arc
you? It’s nice to see you back
safely. How’s that feathered
friend of yours, as you call him?”
Her laugh lacerated him.
“Would it be much trouble to
put him on? I don’t expect for
one moment he’d be considerate
enough to ring me.”
Beryl waited, expectantly.
“Dick—are you there?”
“Yes, Beryl, I’m here.” He
paused. “I’ve got some bad
news.”
“Oh? You’re not sailing
again? W© have a dance teed
up for tonight. And Swannie’s
just my size, remember?”
“Beryl.”
“Yes?”
Sherwood spoke bluntly. He
could not take much more of
this sort of thing.
“Swannie won’t be dancing
any more. He’s dead.”
He heard a gasp. This time it
was his turn to query.
“Hello? Beryl?”
“Yes.” Her voice came faintly.
“I’m sorry to put it like that.
But that’s how it is.”
“How, Dick —when?”
“On an operational flight.”
He stopped, about to add that
Swan had given his life trying to
save his friend’s. But he could
not —not to this tramp.
“I’m sorry,” he said again.
“You must excuse me now. I’m
wanted. Goodbye.”
“Goodbye, Dick,” he heard
faintly before he put the phone
back.
Blast her, he thought savagely.
He stared out across the harbor,
vividly before him again the
memory of Swan, crushed, in his
burst-open cockpit.
Then his inherent honesty
caused his ire to quieten. He had
no right to judge Swan’s girl,
even though he knew she was a
tramp. No right at all —particu-
larly when he had just finished
eagerly making a rendezvous
with another.
For the rest of the day his
friend’s death seemed to haunt
him. He missed the little pilot’s
cheerful cynicism. He was dress-
ing disinterestedly for dinner
when he remembered, with
painful clarity, Swan’s last
words before they took-off for
Chinnampo bridge.
“The old doc, wanted to keep
me nailed down. But there s a
certain party waiting for a
certain Fireflier back in Kure
and Swannie’s the boy to see he
gets there safely.”
If only the doc. had kept him
nailed down. Swannie had done
his best to get that certain Fire-
flier back to base —and had been
nailed down by a half-ton bomb
in doing it.
Sherwood finished dressing
hurriedly, and walked to the bar.
He drank two whiskies, quickly,
and stood there, debating whether
he should call Natalie and put
her off. He knew that he had no
desire now for what she had to
offer.
Before he could decide he was
interrupted by Hap. The lean
Yank strolled up, grinning.
“Waal, now. If no other guy’ll
drink with the Strike Leader, I
ain’t too proud. Name it, boy.”
“No thanks, Hap.”
“Aw, come off it. Come on —
same again?”
He was watching Sherwood
shrewdly, for all his affable grin.
You need a drink, boy. Bad.
Swan’s finish hit you hard, didn’t
it? In the past three weeks,
when Hawk had broken her
predecessor’s sortie-record. Hap
had altered his view somewhat
on British pilots.
He raised his eyebrows in a
question to Sherwood. The big
flyer nodded and grinned.
“AU right, you old slob.
Scotch,”
Hap nodded to the steward.
“Make it two.”
They drank. Sherwood put
his glass on the bar, and
thoughtfully circled it, silent.
“Dick,” Hap said.
“Yes?”
“I wouldn’t take it too hard,
boy.”
Sherwood looked up into the
weatherburned, kindly face.
You’re a good bloke, Hap, he
thought. He breathed out
slowly.
“Swannie was a great chap,
Hap—something out of the box.”
“No argument there,” Hap
(Continued on next page )


nodded, inwardly pleased that
Sherwood was talking about it.
The pilot went on, almost
talking to himself.
“Hundreds of sorties. Then,
the last one. And on the way
home.”
He stopped, and pushed back
from the bar.
“Oh, hell, what’s the use! ”
He stared at Hap, his face
taut.
“Coming in?”
Hap nodded, drained his glass
and walked with him to the mess.
They did not mention Swan
through the meal.
Sherwood was not surprised
at the attractive sight Natalie
made, waiting for him at the top
of the hospital steps —slim,
dressed in a white, low-necked
dress splashed colorfully with
blue. He was surprised at the
look on her face. She stared at
him without smiling, her face
still, its expression remote, as
though frozen.
The nervous tingling which
sight of her had wakened in him
quietened as he approached her.
Something, obviously, was
wrong. It was the memory of
her abrupt goodbye on the
phone which had finally decided
him to keep their appointment—
rightly, it seemed.
“Hello, darling,” he said
quietly.
“Hello, Dick.”
She did not look at him, but
stepped past him to the jeep
“I must say you look”
he started.
“Come on,” she interrupted
tersely. “Let’s go.”
He followed her without
speaking, and helped her in.
Some sense in him kept his
annoyance at his reception down
as they drove off, down the hill
towards the beach. The night
was sombrely overcast, heavy
with the threat of rain.
They had almost reached the
harbor road when he looked at
her. Her face was turned side-
ways, away from him, staring out
towards the lighted bulk of the
carrier across the bay past the
naval-officer-in-charge’s quarters.
In the reflected light from the
headlamps he saw the curve of
her throat, reaching upwards to
her set chin, downwards to the
swelling contours of her breast.
From his height, he could see
plainly the deliciously seductive,
golden-tanned channel running
down into the edge of her dress.
He wet his lips.
“Natalie,” he said. “Same
spot?”
She turned and looked at him
briefly.
“That would be appropriate,”
she answered.
In silence they drove on, along
the rustling harbor edge to the
clump of pines, dark in the
moonless night.
He turned off the road, took
the jeep right up to the trees
and switched off his lights. He
turned to her definitely.
“What’s wrong?”
She did not answer. Her
fingers, he saw, were toying with
the purse in her lap.
“Natalie,” he whispered, and
reached out his hands, pulling
her towards him. Instantly, she
struck his hand down, and turned
to face him, fierceness in her
voice.
“I told you to be careful! ” she
said, vehemently.
“Good God!” he ejaculated.
“What the hell’s the matter with
you?”
She laughed, a hard mocking
little cry.
“ ‘What’s the matter with
you?’ ” she mimicked. “You, of
course, wouldn’t know anything
about that! Oh, God —you
fool! I told you, I told you to
be careful!”
He stared at the dim whiteness
of her tense face, anger gradually
kindling. Then, like a douche of
cold water flung in his face, it hit
him.
“Great Scott!” he jerked.
“You’re n0t...”
She turned away, biting her
lip. Not with shame, he realised
as she looked again at him. Her
voice was icy.
“Yes, I am. And what I want
to know is what are you going to
do about it?”
Strangely, he thought of Swan,
stunned as he was by the shock
of realisation of his position.
He could hear Swan’s cynical
comment, his gnome-like face
grinning up at him.
“Well, boy, she’s chucked that
one fair in your lap! What are
you going to do about it?”
Automatically, Sherwood ran
his finger round the suddenly
tight collar of his uniform. He
felt Natalie staring at him. He
stumbled for words, and all that
would come was the memory that
he had not been careful, had not
bothered to be, because, of
course, she was a nurse. Nurses
knew about tljese things. Or
they should.
Unreasoning anger flared in
him. Fie had not thought of his
career when he hit Baumer; he
thought of it now. This would
blast it. He was, or was supposed
to be, an officer and a gentleman.
Not the father of a
The thought shivered him.
Marriage? You didn’t marry a
girl like this, beauty regardless.
He had felt shame at hurting
the helpless Baumer. Suddenly,
he thought of Natalie in the same
“Sherwood had time to see Swan, his battered head forced out through the perspex, the rest of
his body hidden under the man-high bomb. Then the Fury was far below him, spinning, hurtling
towards the calm blue face of the waiting sea."
fight—the girl he had used, now,
also, helpless, waiting for his
help. And he felt ashamed
again, ashamed of his earlier
thoughts. Perversely, it angered
him more. The harsh streak in
him, outwardly indicated by the
curving nose and jutting jaw,
coming to the surface. He
turned to stare at her. His words
came quickly.
“Why the devil didn’t you look
after that side of it? You were
in it too, you know! ”
Oh, you bloody great hero!
The Strike Leader whom young
Ventner had looked upon as a
w ith wings! Even as he
S p o k e} h e despised himself, the
hurtful words, and the weakness
in his character which made him
fl a q this defenceless woman,
Look at her! Look at the set of
her chin, the contempt in her
eyes! She’s ten times the man
you are!
His heart knocking at his ribs,
he heard Natalie’s voice, low,
deliberate, icily contemptuous.
“Is that all you have to say?”
The tone cut him like a lash,
Consciousness of its justification
angeied him further. He spoke
,
What is there to say? You re
a nurse. You know about these
things. There must be Someone
at the hospital, somewhere
w ho can—ilx things
Good God! ” she breathed.
And I let you . . .
She looked at him a moment,
in a P eer i n S sort of way, close
80 that he could see the shame
in her eyes. Then she turned her
head quickly and put one leg out
of the car.
“ Here! Where are you
*°“« ? ” .
She turned beside the jeep,
both hands clenched on her
p Urse “You needn’t worry,” she
quietly, “about this.”
He put his hand out and
grabbed her arm.
“Stop it!” she hissed, startling
him with her vehemence. She
turned swiftly and walked up
towards the road.
Sherwood sat there, staring
unseeingly into the dark cave of
the trees. Bemusedly, he heard
a car go past on the road above
him, heard it stop a moment,
then move on, the rising whine of
the gears receding into the quiet,
dark night.
A bolt of lightning flashed and
ran over the bay. The thunder
echoed it, a vast rumble in the
cavernous sky. Then the rain
fell, heavy drops that splashed,
unheeded, on to his side through
the open car.
He was still sitting there, his
face twisted, when the rain
ceased, and the cold wind swished
wetly through the rain-heavy
trees. Automatically, he engaged
the gears, backed up the slope
and drove slowly back to the
ship.
His night in his bunk was not
pleasant. Sherwood was,
undoubtedly, a brave man. He
was a top-flight pilot and Strike
Leader. He was, as well, honest
with himself,
He was still awake when the
g re y dawn filtered in through the
scuttle; and he had come to no
decision about Natalie,
CHAPTER XIV
>I T Tt , T ,„ r/^ , , .
OHERWOOD sat down to
breakfast heavy-lidded. Hap
pulled out a chair beside him.
He stared as the Strike Leader
reached for the butter. Sher-
wood’s hand was quivering,
Hap spoke, outwardly his non-
chatont self.
“By the way, Richard.”
Sherwood looked at him.
Brother, thought Hap, you look
as if you’ve been giving it a
belting. Aloud, he went on:
“I’ve got a jeep for this after-
noon. Thought of giving this
joint the once-over. Inland a
bit. Never really seen outside
the dockyard. Be in it?”
Sherwood shook his head.
“Sorry, Hap. I’ve got a fair
bit of work to catch up on,
Some other day, perhaps.”
Hap collared a bread-roll in
his ham of a fist,
“Come on, chum. Forget the
paper-work. She’ll keep. A
guy needs to get away from this
floatin’drome once in a while-
and its faces. How’s about it,
huh?”
Sherwood grinned.
“You’re as persistent as a lass
I once”
He stopped and pretended to
search the table.
“What’s up?” asked Hap.
“Butter,” said Sherwood.
“About two inches from your
right hand,” advised Hap.
Sherwood flushed. “I’d like to
join you. Hap. I’ll see how
the work goes and let you know
at lunch. All right?”
“She’s in the bag,” said Hap
jocularly, and meant it.
He was not sure what Sher-
wood’s trouble was. Not wholly
Swan, he felt certain, close
friends though they had been.
It could be, probably was,
Baumer. Hap knew a thing or
two of that gentleman, too.
Being outside, as it were, this
closely-knit British team, he was
in a peculiarly advantageous
position to judge the workings
and intimacies of its component
parts. It could be, though this
was unlikely, some trouble
ashore. If it were Hap was sure
he would never know —Sher-
wood not being the type to dis-
cuss his amorosities.
Hap was shrewd. But not
quite shrewd enough to guess
that the Strike Leader’s un-
wonted and recent attitude was
due to a combination of all three
possibilities. Being endowed
with a sizeable slice of the easy
generosity of his race, he wanted
to help Sherwood. Partly be-
cause he liked the rugged man-
liness of the hook-nosed pilot
and partly because he appreci-
ated his cool competence in his
job—the attraction of one per-
fectionist for another.
He rose with Sherwood, in-
viting casually;
“Feel like a burn on the
quarter-deck—before those god-
dam deck-swabbers cut loose?”
Sherwood grinned as he
reached up to the rack for his
cap. He remembered reading a
book by an American carrier-
captain, himself a flyer, in which
the author had recorded the
time, on commissioning, when
he had assembled his pilots and
warned them that he would not
tolerate a superior attitude in his
airmen towards the seamen
complement in the ship. That
was the U.S.N. Here was the
opposite—the executive branch
feeling, with some justification,
that in a few centuries of prac-
tice they had learned a little
more than their recently-fledged
feathered shipmates, and ex-
pected to be treated accord-
ingly. The general feeling had
been summed-up once, in Sher-
wood’s presence at dinner, by a
teak-faced commander who had
spent most of his sea-time in
destroyers.
“Only birds fly, and only
bloody fools go to sea. When
they do both . . .”
They walked aft, up the
wooden ladder near the cap-
tain’s day-cabin and out on to
the early-morning coolness of
the broad quarter-deck.
For a pleasant quarter-hour
they paced up and down, Hap
talking, with enthusiasm and
nostalgia, of his native Wyom-
ing. Sherwood listened with
amused interest —the very name
conjured up memories of the
Westerns he had devoured as a
youth. Wyoming cotton-
woods, arroyos, gulches, mes-
quite, roaring saloons and
streaking gun-hands dissolving in
spurts of smoke . , .
Hap broke off suddenly. He
stared astern.
“Hullo, where’s that tin-can
shapin’ for?”
Sherwood looked at the berth-
ing-party walking down the pier.
“Looks like she’s shaping for
us. Must be berthing astern for
minor repairs.”
He stared appreciatively at
the knife of a stem, tapering in
perfect symmetry up to the squat
bridge structure and the lattice-
work mast.
“Lovely ships, aren’t they?
“You should know,” grinned
his companion. “Any time now
you’ll be changin’ over to a flat-
foot, huh?”
“A man could do worse,
grunted Sherwood. “You’re in
action for half an hour, if
you’re unlucky, and spend the


Meeting
hall into dance
floor in five
minutes . . .
A floorM of Fold-A-Byo
Chairs is cleared in a
few minutes. They fold
to only 2 inches thick
and dozens stow in
a negligible space.
Caterers for
public seat-
ing and
floor space-
will find Fold-
A-Byesasound
investment.
£3.5.0
in Sydney
area.
w
FOLD-A-BYE
CHAIRS
are attractively de-
signed for comfort
and stability. They’re
built of steel to last for
years. Obtainable in a wide
range of easy -to - clean
colours.
WONDERFUL IN THE HOME, TOO!
Fold-A-Bye Chairs open, or
shut, with one movement only;
can’t jam up or crush fingers.
Contact your furniture sup-
plier, or write direct for Folder
F2or name of nearest Distri-
butor (all States).
SEBEL
STEEL
FURNITURE
SEBELS (AUST.) LIMITED
96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown,
N.S.W,
’Phone UY 2813, 3895.
m
r
mm
m
i
■
m
4 TEMPTING REASONS for securing
NOW a pair of STAMINA DE-EUXE
Self-supporting TROUSERS •
1. THE SUPPLY IS LIMITED. Although over
2,000,000 are made and sold, only one man in every five
will be able to get a pair this year.
2. A MAN LOOKS HIS BEST IN STAMINA.
Staminas are artistically designed to give you freedom
and comfort without losing that stylish appearance well-
dressed men demand.
3. YOU WILL GET YEARS AND YEARS OF
WEAR FROM STAMINA. Staminas are master-tailored
from a special and exclusive wear-resisting Pure Wool
Crusader Cloth. That means you have Crusader’s Guarantee
that the cloth will never fade or shrink.
4. THE PRICE IS FAR BELOW THE VALUE YOU RECEIVE.
For only 99/8 you get all the benefits of Pure Wool a cloth that is wear-
resisting, dirt-repellent, flame-resisting and water-repellent. Smartly cut,
attractive, comfortable Trousers ideal for every wear everywhere.
“"Stamina
TROUSERS
DON’T DELAY! SECURE YOUR STAMINA SELF-SUPPORTING TROUSERS NOW!
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
-wm
rest of your time quaffing cocoa
on a comfy bridge.”
Hap laughed. “I can see you
sheddin’ wings—l don’t think!
Now, what’s she up to?”
The destroyer had stopped, a
foam of tossed-up water run-
ning forward along her port side,
“Turning.,” explained Sher-
wood. “You watch. She’ll spin
in her own length, then slide in
stern-first. Bows to seaward.”
They watched the manoeuvre,
neat and without fuss.
“M’m,” said Hap. “You’ve
got to admit them cans can
handle. Sweet as a whistle,”
In five minutes the destroyer
had slid her power-packed tail
in under Hawk’s rearing stem,
got a spring ashore, kicked
ahead on its taut support, swung
her bow in and jolted gently
against the catamaran fenders of
the wharf.
“Like a motor-boat,” agreed
Sherwood.
They leaned on the after-
rail looking down on the neatly-
stowed, businesslike tail of the
destroyer. Thereon lay the
strength of her main purpose—•
the multi-barrelled, depth-charge
throwing Squid, its ammunition
stacked in readily-accessible
racks all about it. Sherwood
pointed it out to Hap.
“Keep talkin’,” said the Yank
with interest.
“If we’d had the Squid early
in the war instead of after it,”
said Sherwood, “those U-boat
packs wouldn’t have had a
chance in hell. An enthusiast
aboard Dart let me in on its
pleasant little properties. She’s
controlled from the asdic equip-
ment forrard. Everything is
plotted automatically—range of
the sub., bearing, speed, depth,
all the gubbins they need. Then,
when the ship’s in correct posi-
tion the Squid lets go. The
charges fly right forrard over
the bridge—and they don’t
miss.”
“So?” marvelled Hap. “Then
the old droppin’-’em-over-the-
tail technique has had it, eh?”
“Not completely. They can
still roll the normal depth-
charges over on rails. You
know by now the bloody Navy
never lets go of an auxiliary
method—and rightly so. There
you are.” He pointed to a sea-
man working round a line of
depth-charges on the sloping
rails leading down to the stern,
“That chap’s probably setting
’em to ‘safe.’ Harbor routine as
soon as you get in from sea.
During the war—the real war,
that is—l know of at least two
ships that went down before
their charges could be set to
safe. When she’d sunk to the
right depth, the depth set on the
charges, the lot went up.”
“Nice thought,” commented
Hap, chewing. “Man ought to
sling that guy a few bucks to roll
one over here. Just nice and
pretty under the old duck’s arse.
That'd keep her squattin’ here
long enough for me to get some
goddam shuteye.”
“Just in case one slips,” Sher-
wood grinned, “I’m off. Though
if there’s one chore I’d willingly
consign to the Admiralty clerk
who invented it, it’s blasted
paper-work. See you later.”
He nodded to Hap and
walked to the bulkhead-door.
Hap’s shout reached him
above the medley of cries com-
ing from below Hawk’s stern,
sharp with urgency.
“Hey, Dick!”
He ran back. Hap was lean-
ing over the stern-rail, his face
alight with excitement. Sher-
wood, in one swift stare, saw
three figures running forward on
the destroyer’s quarter-deck be-
low. The Yank enlightened him
with trained conciseness.
“Depth-charge. Slipped over
the rails. Just like I said. Me
prayers answered. Here —where
you off to?”
Sherwood did not answer. He
was running fast towards the
carrier’s gangway, galvanised by
the need for instant action.
That 3001 b. charge of high-
explosive, lying a few feet under
Hawk’s stem, could slam up-
wards with crippling effect on
rudder and screws. It could
punch with a giant steel fist
against the destroyed quarter-
deck, and the depth-charges
thereon not yet set to safe. If
they went up, the possibilities
were endless.
Sherwood’s brain, long-trained
in split-second decision, decided
at once on his form of action.
Like most executive officers, he
had been trained in the use of
shallow-diving apparatus. As he
ran, he remembered the first-
lieutenant showing him the div-
ing gear stowed in Dart’s quarter-
master’s lobby. It should be the
same here.
He jumped on to the pier.
The thought of informing Hawk’s
captain flashed into his mind.
He dismissed it. Hap could be
depended on to do that. Not
that the information could help
anyone. Even now the water
would be seeping through little
holes in the depth-charge primer,
building up pressure to snap the
needle on to its waiting
detonator.
Sherwood shouted as he
approached the destroyer’s stern,
unbuttoning his shirt as he ran.
The quartermaster answered him,
coming to the starb’d guard-rail,
his face alive with apprehension.
“Sling me a diving set!
Hurry, man!”
Understanding at once, the
quartermaster wheeled and ran
into the lobby. Sherwood caught
the thrown mask and oxygen
containers. He had strapped the
bottles on when a voice slewed
his head round.
“What the devil are you up to,
Sherwood?”
There Was no animosity in the
tone of Snerwood’s answer. He
had forgotten everything but the
thought of the water seeping in
and the need for urgency.
He looked at Baumer, just
come from the dockyard.
“Depth - charge. Dropped
from the stern rails, I’m going
down to get a line on it. You
handle that, will you? And for
God’s sake hurry!”
While he slipped the mask-
straps over his head, Sherwood
saw Baumer’s face working.
Plain as the white scar on his
face, he could see the man’s
reasoning: Here is my chance to
show them.
His next words confirmed
Sherwood’s snap diagnosis,
“Here, you’re needed for the
squadron. Give me that gear.”
Sherwood watched the expres-
sions on Baumer’s face as he
fiddled with the strap buckles.
Earlier, he would not have
understood. Now, he saw the
fear, struggling with the deter-
mination to overcome it, the
conflict making his lips twitch
and his eyelids flicker.
“No, sir,” answered Sherwood,
continuing his dressing.
Baumer’s voice cracked with
tension. “Sherw'ood, this is an
order. Give me that gear! ”
For answer, the Strike Leader
clipped the mouthpiece on,
lifted his feet and heaved off his
shoes, stepped to the edge of the
pier and jumped down.
While he had been dressing,
his mind had raced. He knew
the destroyer’s officers would
send down a line so soon as they
learned what had happened and
what he was up to. He knew
also that, with seconds meaning
the difference between success
and crushing death, he had to
get down quickly and manoeuvre
the 3001 b. charge so that its
slinging rings on either end
would be accessible, ready for
bending the line on.
He dropped down past the
rudder and screws. The chil-
ling thought struck him that the
destroyer probably still had
enough steam pressure to go
ahead, even snapping her berth-
ing wires, to clear her stem of
the energy waiting to expend its
disruptive force beneath it. If
she did, he could be swept
fiercely back under Hawk; he
could, possibly, be sucked up
into the churning blades.
Then he landed on the bottom,
sinking almost to his knees in
the slime. In the dimly green
light he stared round through his
goggles through the curling wisps
of mud, clamping down on the
tension in his guts with a deli-
berate effort. He sighted the
. th h canister
depth-charge, a grey camsier.
It was half-buned on one end,
<h thPr with its steel erannhna
a foo or so abov!
a toot or so above
tne mud.
He labored over, grabbed the
ring and pulled. The chief
result was to stir the mud, mak-
mg a semi-opaque curtain which
swirled up around him/
God, where’s that hue! He
had to get the charge up, up from
the water pressure at the bottom.
The further towards the surface
it went, the slower the water
could seep in, the lighter the
pressure on the waiting detona-
tor needle. Even now, it could
be ready to spring. He had no
idea what depth-setting had been
set on the charge. Only the fact
of its being in shallow, hghtly-
pressured water had prevented
its going up long ago. If it had
been one of a deep-set pattern,
which would have needed to sink
well below surface before ex-
plodmg, he had a tew more
seconds ut.
He had braced mmseit tor
thmg; slap stl ®*“«d“ n
shoulder. He grabbed and
caught the heavy steel hook.
Thank God Without pausing
~ . 5 i of
to wonder at the marvet or
accurate dropping—the team up
top knew his position from the
P _ he slipped
, . • . in „ aTld „ ave
. ■ * sham tues on the
a couple of sharp tugs on the
Sherwood
nr : ver of thanks
a imXince of the office
° ‘tarLe and stepped aside o"
ch^| e d eck PP four seamen
jjj® W with the weight
P wd mfthe charge Sher-
wo^%^fit on ei v e thef kowW
wood[felt it g e » “ . mu §[
8 find’s sake haul his
Haul, for Gods sake haul, his
Dram snouteu ’
( To be concluded next week)


For easier,
quicker,
shaving
\
00
Gillette
DISPENSER
\\\\
SSv
•XV-
V\\
Vv
0
A#
*«■*■
«
K*
,
mi
A new blade
in a flash!
o
a
/
and...a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
I
and it costs you nothing extra
,•. you pay only for ihe blades!
CO
NEW 10-Blade
DISPENSER ...
10 Blade PACKET . .
5 Blade PACKET . .
20 Blade DISPENSER .
3'9
. 3/9
. l/10i
. 7 16
Gillett
'GOOD MORNINGS' BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman), F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON, NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Brandies In ail States Agencies in ail Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Chinese sehnolhnv mn interested
in stamns su/immine renHi’no mnvies
and mathematics would like’to cor
respond with voune Bulletin readers
tßenTv dTre; f y ?rN. Shfn Yan
(Reply direct to Ng Shin ran, ist
Kona \ 23 Mosque Junctlon ’ Hong
g,> •
Chinese reader (19), interested m
stamp-collecting, reading, sport and
music, would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers of about same age.
(Reply direct to Mok Shu Fai, Ist
Floor, 3 Lee Yuen-street East, Hong
Kong.)
. n
(1) Some information about Edgar
Rice Burroughs? (2) How many
“Tarzan” books did he write? (5)
Did he write any other books?
(1) Born at Chicago (Illinois) on
Sept. 1, 1875, he was a most prolific
writer, turning out books almost up
to his death on March 19, 1950. The
son of Major George Burroughs, he
was at first privately educated, then
at Harvard, Phillips Academy and
Michigan Military Academy. From
1899 to 1903 he was treasurer of
American Battery Co., Chicago, and
1906-08 department-manager at Sears,
Roebuck and Co. After that he was
in turn goldminer, storekeeper, cow-
boy and policeman. From Sept.,
1918, to Jan., 1919, he was a major
of Ist Battalion 2nd Infantry Illinois
rv . ... . .. ,
(Reserve Militia). (2) All told he
J arz f ns ' ,£f.SP ni 2*
Apes 14). Some of
r 6 ° h noPi? 6B -,? 16 r? 26 Re J U^ n °
mfcT f% StS ° nom
S* 16) ’ T .t ?? n ?/ Tarz f%J} 9ll) X
Tarzan the Magnificent (1939) and
J“ rz ™ and the Foreign Legion (1947).
VJ • ea ?° wrote a sen . es of books ’
36 in all, set on various planets,
principally Mars, with such titles as
AP T l . ncesS l °[ Mars (1917), The Gods
of Mars{l9lS), A Fighting Man of
Mars (1931), Pirates of Venus (1934),
Lost on Venus (1935). These books
did not have the widespread vogue of
the Tarzans.
* * * *
.
J 1). Some information on water-
divining? (2) Any books on the sub-
]ect?
(1) Examples can be given for and
against the efficacy of the divining-
rod. Modern science repudiates the
theory that there is a direct connec-
tion between the divining-rod and the
water or metal underground. The
divining-rod, mainly used in search of
metals, was known to the ancient
world; and in the 15th century it
was used by prospectors in the Harz
mountains (Germany) in search of
minerals (whether successfully or not
is not stated). In the modern world —
in Australia, anyway—it is used only
to find water; and the “dowser” has
at times been successful. He com-
monly uses a forked hazel-twig, but
the rod can also be of willow, beech
or holly; some dowsers don’t use a
rod at all. Writing in 1905, Prof. Sir
W. F. Barrett held that where
“ tbe discovery of underground water
sufficient for a domestic supply is a
ma tter of the utmost difficulty the
chances of success with a good
dowser far exceed mere lucky hits,
° r the success obtained by the most
skilful observer even with a full
knowledge of local geology.” From
this he concluded that there is no
voluntary deception on the part of
the dowser, and ascribes the dowser’s
ability to “motor-automatism.” The
power to find water resides in the
dowser, not the rod; such power
apparently lies beneath the level of
conscious explanation, (2) Every-
man’s Encyclopedia lists the follow-
ing: Custom and Myth, by A. Lang
(1884); The Divining Rod. by J.
Mullins (1894); Springs of Water, by
B. Tompkins (1925); Water Divining.
by T. Besterman (1938); and The
Elements of Dowsing, by H. de
France (1948).
* * * *
(7) To what genus do the flowers
known as Christmas-bells belong?
(2) How many species are there, and
in what districts are they found?
(1) Blandfordia. (2) B. nobilis, a
species with rigid, narrow leaves and
flowers of a wax-like texture, shading
from reddish-brown or orange to
yellow, is usually found in swampy,
sandstone country, and is confined
to N.S.W. B. grandiflora, also
limited to N.S.W., has larger flowers
of a deeper red than B. nobilis, and
grolvs in peaty pockets on the
craggy escarpments of the Blue
Mountains, overhanging Leura and
Wentworth Falls. B. fiammea, with
large pale, flame-colored flowers,
extends from northern N.S.W. to
Queensland. B. marginata, the hand-
somest of all, is limited to Tasmania,
and will grow at altitudes up to
4000 ft.
* * * *
(7) Was Australian Test-cricket
selector Jack Ryder given a testi-
monial ? (2) Date ? (i) Scores ?
(1) Yes. (2) At Melbourne, Nov.
14-18, 1930. (3) The match was be-
tween teams led by Ryder and W. M.
Woodfull, and was drawn. J. Ryder’s
XI 293 (G. W. Harris 108, H. L.
Hendry 45, Ryder 38, K. Rigg 29;
Grimmett 5-89) and 3-191, closed
(Rigg 74, Ryder 65 not out); W. M.
Woodfull’s XI 367 (Bradman 73,
Kippax 70, Woodfull 53, A. G. Fair-
fax 39, E. L. a’Beckett 30, Grim-
mett 28, McCabe 27; Ironmonger
3-76, Mailey 3-126) and 5-96 (Brad-
man 29, McCabe 20; Blackie 2-15).
♦ * * *
(7) Correct food for goldfish? (2)
How often should the water in their
aquarium be changed?
(1) Chopped -up earthworms or
mosquito-larv® (wrigglers). If these
are unobtainable, finely-shredded raw
beef may be substituted. Ground
puppy-biscuits or prepared foods sold
by dealers are usually fairly satisfac-
tory, but the fish thrive best on live
foods. A little vegetable diet, such
as chopped-up lettuce, cabbage- or
spinach-leaves, should be added oc-
casionally. (2) An aquarium cannot
be kept successfully without plenty
of aquatic plants growing in it, and
if these are thriving the water never
requires to be changed. For further
details T. C. Roughley’s Cult of the
Goldfish is recommended.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
Brief Answers
M.D.K.: The S.S. Quetta struck
a submerged rock and sank in
Adolphus Channel, near Torres
Strait, on February 28, 1890. Lives
lost, 134; 150 survivors, including
two women... .R.J.A.: If there is no
permanent arrangement, the woman
being engaged separately at irregular
intervals, the employment is casual
within the meaning of the Act, and
no liability will attach to you
M.C.: The offer of a prize of
£25,000 by N.S.W. induced Pasteur to
send three of the staff of his institute
here in 1888 with chicken cholera to
destroy the rabbit pest. After experi-
ment this method was rejected. There
was another visit in 1906, with
similar results H.J.; Robert Man-
teuil was bom at Rheims in 1623.
Settling in Paris, he was appointed
engraver to the king with a pension.
He engraved notable portraits of
Mazarin, De Bellievre, Turenne, Jean
Loret and Anne of Austria
D.M.: The N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
published in 1912 a book of theatrical
caricatures by Harry Julius from the
Poverty Point columns of The
Bulletin, with marginal anecdotes
by Claude McKay F.C.L.: Spray
with arsenate-of-lead mixture (ilb.
to lOgal. water), getting well around
the plants. All infected flowers and
buds should first be removed and
burnt. Stir a little rotted manure into
the soil about the plants, and fresh-
flowering laterals will soon make
fresh blooms H.S.: There is no
specific cure for hay-fever. The con-
dition may be induced in susceptible
persons by any one of a thousand
causes, and treatment must be
individual.... K.E.: Requests for
certified copies of deaths occurring
in Dublin should be made to the
Registrar-General, General Register
Office, Charlemont House, Dublin.
. ...T.8.C.: The alkaline nature of
your soil was the reason of the
change of color. To bring back the
blue flowers, give the shrubs weekly
doses of a mixture of loz. of sul-
phate-of-iron in Igal. of water
throughout the summer M.J.S.:
Con Drew was a Sydney sporting
journalist. He wrote several light
books, including The Grafter, J inker,
Doings of Dave, Rogues and Ruses,
Fringe of the Underworld, Gilbert
Reminiscences, Hooks and Crooks,
and A Sydney Harbor Beachcomber.
G.M.: You probably refer to
Noel Thomas Carrington (1777-1830),
the Devonshire poet, fie was the
son of a Plymouth grocer. After an
apprenticeship in the Navy he became
a teacher. His verses for the most
part describe Devonshire scenery and
tradition 0.8. J.: A literary-agent
is not of much use to the occasional
and unknown writer in selling pars.,
articles and stories. The work en-
tailed in placing such material hardly
pays them, as commission on sales
would be small. They are more inter-
ested in book-length material....
R.C.: You have been misinformed.
Soya-beans contain nothing of a
poisonous or harmful nature.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on ali
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.M.: More morbid than mor-
dant... It’s just that we’re
not your market R.D.: The point
of your bookmaker-story was too
much like betting on a certainty....
J.P.: Your goat story was rather
heavy kidding C.M.T.: It’s all
question and alleged answer....
D.A.: Short and trite... .A. 8.:
Like so many fishermen-stories, it
doesn’t quite hang together—
J.R.C.: That would be putting ideas
in people’s heads... J.R.; Nothing
to it K.H.H.: Never twist the
patriotic tale without a reason....
G. : Well, we 11... .P.K.E.;,
Such japes. ...J.S.: Nope....
P.R.R.1.: It’s come a long way, but
you’ve a long way to go J.E.8.:
How do you get such coincidences
together with a bale - press?
T.M.H.: Poor ickie kittings L.C.:
Not ours J.A.S.M.: Might go
elsewhere J.D.W.: ’Orrible, fair
’orrible... .N. 8.: The same old story,
as they 5ay....P.P.-T.: Yes, yes;
but no, n0....L.D.: Forced—
J.N.: “Sundown” might do else-
where ; “Obituary” a little too casual.
....M.C.: None of them ours....
R.D.: Might gp elsewhere... .K.G.:
Much too labored, even if you didn’t
rhyme so atrociously... .C.R.: The
long-lost son’s habit of turning up
grows monotonous.... V.S.: Open-
ing paragraph reminiscent of the
genealogy of David....H.J.T.: The
point of it evades u5....P.5.: Stick
to something simpler until you im-
prove E.A.: Well, if you really
are “thankful for your failures,” you
can score up another half-dozen on
the board with a light heart—
R. ; Poetic speculations as to
the origin of a boulder are only
worth while if the verse is good,
otherwise the information is best
obtained from a geologist....P.G.:
It appeared to be leading up to a
point, but stopped suddenly with-
out getting there A.S.M.: Over-
loaded with classical and mytho-
logical allusions R.M.J.: Reads
like a desperate attempt to put a
page or two from a guide-book into
rhyme J.M.A.: But so many
stories have been written to prove
there’s no place like home... .R.H.:
Can’t swallow the abo. hanging
cheerfully for the doctor’s crime—
L.EJ.: We shall not disturb your
amateur status by accepting the ac-
count of your first bicycle-race—
T.F.8.: The idea was hardly worth
the time and trouble of transferring
to paper... .M.M.; Not ill-told, but
strung-out to a length that gives it
no chance for these columns
V. : 'There’s something in them,
but your long-windedness threatens
to be a heavy handicap D.W.P.:
It was not good enough E.V.S.:
The jest has had its little day; the
story won’t have even that—
T.P.H.: We were hoping for a laugh
at the end. It didn’t come
W. : Edifying as a guide to con-
duct, execrable as verse S.T.A.:
Have you read E. A. Poe’s “William
Wilson”?....L.P.McK.: Make it
half as long and twice as humorous
and it might d 0... .E.A.J.: Hope-
less, but we liked the concluding
sentence about the “two youthful
hearts rapt in one, devouring the
sublime of all earthly paradise”
H. Balderdash seems to be the
right word... .M. 8.5.: A queer mix-
ture of the obvious and the obscure.
N.D.: Well, for a start it had
about as much connection with
“Aboriginalities” as a kangaroo with
hydrostatics B.B.: You’re “An-
other Optimist” yourself... .R.P. A.:
We wouldn’t accept your dingo story
not even if you sent the scalp
A. 8.: But that furrow has been
ploughed so assiduously for cen-
turies C.A.: Even our barber has
long ceased telling us that one—
S. : You exhausted your talent
when you finished the covering
letter M.W.8.: Sorry, there’s
no room for it in our “illustrious
paper”.... JJP.McK.; Ship returns to
port H.C.K.; “The young man
with a literary bent” will have to
write better than that to get into
print S.F.: At least your efforts
to break into print help to swell the
postal revenue... .F.C.S.: A jumble
of words, with commas thrown in as
carelessly as pepper out of a pepper-
pot Q.S.: Rather an elaborate
approach to an impracticable practi-
cal joke G. 8.: But why the
tirade against respectability, as if »
were incompatible with love’s young
dream? E.K.: Too many co-
incidences for one short-story.. • •
J.N.L.: It lacks the stirring note.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
II
-ev
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Saving the Silver City
The Rescue Of
Broken Hill
By JUDITH CASSELL
Broken hill is two-
hours’ flight north from
Adelaide. Fifteen min-
utes out the tumbling
Adelaide hills fade behind ana
the plane is above scarred and
yellow country over which
vegetation sprawls sparsely.
Homesteads, a thousand cooees
apart, swim into view, and swim
out again into the blue Austra-
lian haze. And suddenly, as the
vast inland seems prepared for
sleep in the dusk, you come to
the airport of the Silver City.
Broken Hill is a sort of stray
N.S.W, child. Its only affilia-
tion with the State which claims
it is political. Most of its
citizens ignore Sydney, 700 miles
away, and look on Adelaide, 336
miles away, as their capital.
Melbourne, 600 miles away,
comes before Sydney. Adelaide
and Melbourne turn this into
profits, woo trade by opening
local offices or sending travel-
ling-salesmen. Though Sydney
desperately ran a railway nearly
500 miles through the saltbush,
it failed to win Broken Hill.
A happy city of large-hearted
people who maintain a high
population of mostly hungry
dogs, its isolation should act as
an incentive to its councils, busi-
ness firms and thinkers to im-
prove its varied services to the
public, and bring its housing
into alignment with modern
needs. Just now it is a motley
of eras and standards.
Strolling down its busy streets
one cannot but wonder if, with
abundant water flowing into the
mains, the Civic Fathers realise
that the old Broken Hill has run
its day, that the future has be-
come the present, that it is in
their hands to make it one of
the show-places of the earth
despite its setting in a semi-
desert.
Post-war prosperity has
“made” Broken Hill and what
is needed now is a thorough
overhaul and refurbishing of the
place. Nowhere is this more
urgent than in educational
facilities.
Conditions at the High School
are a disgrace.
Inspection of 17 portable
class-rooms showed one ant-
eaten and condemned, others
with broken veranda-rails, bro-
ken windows, uneven flooring
and peeling paint. Some, un-
lined, are hot-boxes in summer
and freezers in winter. In play-
grounds of red dust weather-
sheds are non-existent. The only
shelter is a small drinking-shed.
The assembly hall, a former
drill-hall, is of unlined galvan-
ised-iron. The primary schools
are little better.
For years Broken Hill resi-
dents have been agitating for a
new High School. Last year
several thousands signed a peti-
tion pleading for one and sent
it to the Minister for Education.
It was, up to some weeks ago,
“still under consideration,”
+ +
The children of this city of
30,500 people are separated
from other N.S.W. educational
centres by hundreds of miles.
Their very isolation entitles
them to the best the Department
of Education can give them.
They should have preference in
regard to building. But behold
their benefits: tin halls, red
dust and deplorable classrooms!
In local fields of education
Broken Hill Municipal Council
seems wanting. The combina-
tion of art-gallery and museum
in one small hall is not a happy
one. Wool and metals do not
mix well with art, though all
are equally important to the
people. A bright spot is the
Technical College—as it should
be in a mining and engineering
city.
There is need for a her-
barium. With a wealth of in-
land flora available. Broken Hill
should be teaching its children,
public and passing travellers of
the beauty and services of
plants. There is a unique story
to be told of the propagation of
dry-country shrubs and trees —
a story of interest to dry-land
dwellers in Asia, Africa and the
Americas.
The Public Library, housed in
the Town Hall, is a cramped
institution established in 1906.
It is one of the oldest libraries
in the State and looks like it.
It has scant seating for about
five persons. The extent to
which general conditions are re-
pelling, instead of attracting, the
public is revealed by the small
number of names on the bor-
rowers’ fist. Yet the books car-
ried number over 20,000 and
include a high proportion of
informative subjects, as well as
the latest fiction. Children’s
books are available, but in the
present congested space chil-
dren’s numbers must be limited.
Five miles out of Broken Hill
is a base of the Flying-doctor
Service. The road that leads to
it is bare of trees, the country
flat. Even the skies flatten-out
to far horizons. The Barrier
Ranges rise grey on the right.
+ +
On arrival there, Frank Bas-
den, chief wireless - operator,
welcomes you to a quiet room
where the voices from the out-
back are pouring in—telegrams,
reports, calls for help, messages.
Happy, earnest, sympathetic
voices. In the evening, when the
officers-in-charge complete the
day’s work, the base is switched
over to the Zinc Corporation in
Broken Hill. There officials are
on call to help the inland
throughout the night.
Within the past two years
over £26,000 has been spent in
modernising the equipment of
this base. Out of that, £lB,OOO
went towards a new Drover-
type aerial ambulance.
To the mineowners goes much
credit for their interest in pro-
moting the recreational fife of
the community. In 1938 the
Zinc Corporation, North and
South Mines, combined to estab-
lish Penrose Park. This covers
75 acres of playgrounds, includ-
ing tennis-courts, cricket-pitches,
football-grounds and running-
tracks.
Mineworkers contribute a
few shillings a year towards the
big park’s upkeep; this amount
is subsidised by the employers.
The area has been beautified by
over 4000 trees donated by the
Zinc and by the preservation of
many native species. The mines
support the Memorial Show-
ground. Portion of the layout is
a replica of the Rats of Tobruk
Memorial in the North Afric&a
desert.
Broken Hill golf-course was
established by voluntary effort.
The mile-and-a-half pipeline to
water it was laid down by 70
miners, clerks and businessmen
in nine hours. Aethels, euca-
lypts and wattles add their
beauty to the links. Close by is
the racecourse.
But Broken Hill’s real triumph
is in the establishment of trees
and shrubs, both to beautify the
place and protect it from the
interior dust-storms. The man
responsible for this was Albert
Morris, the naturalist. As a boy
he turned to the study of plants
and trees, and ultimately became
Australia’s greatest authority on
inland flora. The floral regen-
eration of Broken Hill is his
memorial.
+ +
Back in 1845 the inland’s ves-
ture was a thick growth of
mulga and maUee, eremophilas
and myoporums, hop-bush, she-
oaks and grasses. It grew,
blossomed and seeded in
seasonal course —until the white
man came. Then graziers and
stock, prospectors and rabbits
got to work.
Over the years millions of
stock were fattened on the herb-
age, ate out the seedling-growth,
pounded-up the soil. The rab-
bit hordes increased; around
Broken Hill prospectors tore off
the earth’s cover.
The devastation grew, and in
the end the soil began to drift,
winds were laden with fine red
dust. Red dust piled against the
fences, buried some of them,
partially enveloped homes, sub-
merged plant-fife.
When the city’s water-supply
came from the Umberumberka
reservoir in the Barrier Ranges
plant-life had to five on the rain-
fall, and rainfall, in this area,
is an irregular visitant. It aver-
ages from nine to 12 inches a
year, but one can never be sure.
In 1941 began a drought that
dragged on to 1946. It takes
brave hearts to grow trees under
those conditions. It takes all a
brave tree has to grow under
them.
The climate is a hard one.
The winter temperatures may
register 24deg. F., with frosts
aplenty; average summer read-
ings are around about 90deg.
and, on occasions, rise to
119 deg.
In 1924 Albert Morris began
to preach a strange doctrine to
Broken Hill: “Map out an
area a mile wide around this
devastated town and fence it off
to protect it against stock and
rabbits. The seeds, latent in the
soil, will spring to life to form
a ground-cover that will hold
the earth, prevent surface-soil
from blowing away and over-
come drift. Later, you will have
a green belt of trees and plants.”
He was mocked.
To Morris there was tragedy
not only in the general desola-
tion but in the fact that the red
sand, drifting hundreds of miles
across the country, was the fer-
tile surface-soil which contains
food - elements necessary for
plant-life. He advocated that,
since the damage was done,
people should incorporate the
drift-sand in their garden-soil,
thus enriching their own plots.
If, in the 12 years that fol-
lowed the first delivery of his
theory, the naturalist was often
weighed down with discourage-
ment, he continued to wait for
the opportunity to prove his
doctrine. He made a special
study of the plants of overseas
deserts, and imported many of
them. His magnificent her-
barium, which listed 7000
species, is now the possession of
the Adelaide Waite Institute. In
all this work he had the assist-
ance of his wife, Margaret, an
outstanding botanist.
In 1936, A, J. Keast, resident
for 15 years in Canada and the
United States, where they know
something of tree-values, was
appointed manager of the Zinc
Corporation. A big rebuilding
scheme was planned. But the
site chosen for the new offices
and works lay in the paths of
the dust-laden westerly and
southerly winds. There would
be no protection for miles.
Nine cottages adjacent to the
site showed what the company
might expect, since their fences
lay buried in dust. Why, not,
said some genius, stop the on-
rush of the drift with slime-
dumps 40ft. to 50ft. in height?
Slime-dumps!
Instead, Keast became inter-
ested in Albert Morris and his
theory of regeneration.
M. A. Mawby, mill-super-
intendent, arranged a meeting
on the evening of May 5, 1936.
Keast asked; “Do you think
you can grow anything to stop
the drift?” Morris replied; “A
regeneration scheme and tree-
planting will solve the prob-
lem.” Before the evening was
out Keast agreed that Morris
should be given the opportunity
to prove his dream. The area
to be regenerated was 18 acres
of country which man had
transformed into desert.
Late 1936 saw the area en-
closed with galvanised-iron
fencing. A hedge of saltbush
went in, planted in double-
formation on the sides from
which the worst winds came. As
an additional safeguard against
the sand, a row of wattles
(Acacia ligulata ) was also
planted. These rows prevented
the red dust smothering the
young trees.
Realising the numbers of trees
this work would call for, Morris
enlarged his own tree-nursery
and the Zinc Corporation estab-
lished another. Thousands of
seedling eucalypts, the dry-
country strain of redgurm (E.
rostrata ), were got from the
banks of the Umberumberka
reservoir, planted in kerosene-
tins and carefully tended.
Six months later, when 3000
of them were transplanted into
the plantation, they were 2ft.
high. Within a year they had
soared to 20ft. with a circum-
ference of 6in. at 2ft. from the
ground.
In addition to other species
an orchard of citrus trees,
peaches, apricots and mul-
berries, etc., began to flourish.
In other parts of the plantation
Nature reacted according to
Morris’s expectations. Plant-
life began to come back. This
plantation stayed the drift.
Today it is a thick mass. Its
fruit-crops are donated to local
institutions.
In early 1937 Morris placed
a proposal before Keast, which
asked that the Zinc Corporation
and North and South Mines
should combine in a scheme to
fence-off a half-mile strip of
waste land around three sides
of the town. If this were done
the once-prolific
would be given its chance to
regenerate, wind velocity would
ultimately be reduced and
erosion halted.
By agreeing to shoulder the
financial responsibility of the
scheme, the mining companies
laid the foundation of what was
to prove a world-famous work
of regeneration. No fanfare of
trumpets. No headlines in the
dailies. In the spring of 1937
the fencing-off of what came to
be known as “the regeneration-
areas” began; nine of them in
aU.
Remember that this country
was 90 per cent, desert. Yet
within two years from 60 to 89
different species of plants were
springing up in the various
areas. By 1942 the plant-life in
one area had risen to 208 differ-
ent species ; in the smallest area
of all 68 different plants were
flourishing. Thus did the land
reveal its eagerness to regener-
ate, to again put on its plant-
cover, when protected.
Morris died in 1939, before
the conquest of the drifting sands
was in sight. His first plantation
is known as the Albert Morris
Memorial Plantation. In Argent-
street a memorial drinking-
fountain bears the simple
words:
Albert Morris
1886—1939
Nature’s friend
But his greatest memorials are
the ever-widening regeneration-
areas.
For some time Mrs. Morris
continued his work. Now it is
in the hands of Jack Scougall,
who has been responsible for
the planting of additional
thousands of trees and the
development of many tree-
schemes. Two other men,
W. Cuy and R. Edwards, for
the past 14 years have each
given a day a week of their
leisure time to plant trees in one
regeneration-area formerly part
of an old stock-route. To date
these plantings number 14,000
trees. At the North Mine a big
tree-planting scheme under the
supervision of R. Martin is
beginning to take shape.
In spring and summer, now,
many of the grounds of the
Zinc Corporation, one - time
desert country, are scenes of
vivid, beauty. Avenues of aethel-
trees are emerald with new
growth. Coral-gums in hun-
dreds are weighted under
crowns of rich pink blossom.
Many West Australian euca-
lypts are aflame with red, yel-
low, cream and green flowers
or carry a harvest of ruby-red
seed-capsules. Dry-country red-
gums in their thousands give
promise of coming forests.
Willows toss bright green ban-
ners about the artificial lakes,
on which the wildfowl are now
fed. Here and there wattles and
bottle-brush bloom. Over all is
the scent of the gums and the
citrus.
+ +
With water from the Darling,
Broken Hill can now be made
an oasis in the desert. All that
is needed is the spirit that began
it and the co-operation of pri-
vate citizen and public author-
ity. It is 16 years since Albert
Morris started his first scheme,
“What is being done here can
be done in any other arid part
of the continent,” he once said.
But many tree-starved towns
of the inland stand witness that
no similar work has been
attempted.


ŵ
Available at
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
NEW CAMERAS Zi SQ.
f 2.8 Rolleiflex .. £l4O/-/-
-f3.5 Rolleiflex .. £lO5/-/-
f 3.5 Rolleicord .. £64/-/-
f 3.5 Ikoflex Ila .. £63/18/-
35MM COUPLED RANGEFINDER CAMERAS
Contax “D” f 2 Biotar, £145; Nicca Ills f 2 Nikbor, £113;
Prominent f 2 Ultron, £72; Yitessa f 2 Ultron, £54/10/-; Super
Beldinette f 2.8 Xenar, £39/16/3; Iloca Quick f 2.9 Ilitar, £34.
All these cameras are available
ou Easy Terms or Eay-by.
We send C.O.D.
For All Your
Photographic Supplies
Write or Call
Cairns Camera Service
Hotel Australia Building:,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
10,000 MEMBERS ALREADY!
Uu^Pia/uvn\
BOYS!
Join this Club today!
There are FREE BADGES and
VALUABLE PRIZES
All you have to do is buy a copy
of the
AUSTRALIAN “BOY”
MAGAZINE .... 9d.
and fill in the Coupon
CUAKD
CZs
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable lor every type .1 *•••"«•• '*
.11 Sales, Credit., P.yoot. etc.
pleasing in appearance. Send for ful
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distribute# Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Neman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Van Jon & SonsLtA
PERTH .. ..Docket Book dog (Ann.#
SPORTING NOTIONS
Attendance of 50,000 at
Randwick for the Royal-visit
meeting was very low consider-
ing the occasion and the fine
weather. The crowd, however,
seemed much greater than usual
in official enclosures. Many
didn’t make a bet until after the
Queen left the course. They
were content to watch the pro-
ceedings and leave betting till
after the running of the main
race. It was then only that
seating accommodation became
available. Some sat for many
hours in a humid atmosphere
rather than lose their front view.
The A.J.C. did a good job, and
the track has never been in
better order, a tribute to curator
George Johnstone and his staff.
The club’s head-gardener re-
ceived some encouraging words
from her Majesty, while jockeys
Bill Cook and Neville Sellwood,
who had both ridden in Eng-
land, also met the Queen.
The Queen Elizabeth Stakes
(£10,500; \\ mile) was regarded
by most form-students as the
“Carioca Stakes,” but the
champion, sent to the post at
even money, was a modest sixth,
a position he held as the field
turned into the straight for the
final run to the winning-post.
Maybe Carioca isn’t quite as
good as he was a few months
ago, though, with his big weight
(9.5) and others below him
enjoying flattering imposts, he
was set a terrific task to try to
catch the record-breaking pace-
maker and winner Blue Ocean,
who carried the minimum, 7st.
Blue Ocean covered the mile
and a half in 2.27 f, easily a
Randwick record and equalling
Australia’s best, made by Pal-
fresco in the 1935 Caulfield Cup.
Going out at 33 to 1, he led from
the starting-gates, and was being
eased-up at the finish, well clear
of Euphrates and Advocate.
Hydrogen ran a sound race, but,
like Carioca, never threatened
danger—nor did any other
runner, for that matter.
In the absence of Indian
Empire, Sydney’s crack two-year-
old of the season, the West-
minster Juvenile at Randwick
proved a soft-snap for favorite
Pride of Egypt, who led practi-
cally all the way and covered the
six furlongs in smart time for a
two-year-old, 1.1 U, without
being ridden out. Many were
prepared to back him to beat
Indian Empire had the latter been
fit enough to compete. Indian
Empire was handicapped at 9.10,
and would most likely have been
fully extended to hold off Pride
of Egypt with 8.8 on his back.
Arthur Ward was happy to have
ridden the first Australian winner
in the presence of the Queen.
Pride of Egypt has started three
times for two wins and a close
second to Indian Empire in the
Kirkham Stakes.
Brisbane-owned and -trained
Fort William has now won at his
only two appearances at Rand-
wick in a seven-furlongs
Graduation Stakes, then in an
open event, the St. James Handi-
cap (one mile). Prior to coming
to Sydney he had won twice from
three starts at Eagle Farm, m
restricted company. A brother
of Sydney filly Redeswood, Fort
William is a four-year-old geld-
ing by Delville Wood (imp.)
from Eternal City (imp.), an
unraced mare by Epigram from
Fair City by Fairway. He was a
first foal, and belongs to the
family which produced Swynford
and Chaucer. Another Delville
Wood, top-class sprinter Bird-
wood was also successful at
Randwick on Saturday, while
Midswell, yet another product
of Kia-Ora stud, won the
Clarence Handicap.
Welcome Handicap winner
Birdwood and Tarien (second)
are expected to again clash in the
Newmarket, Birdwood is
Sydney’s most improved sprinter.
His two successes at Randwick
within three days were most
impressive, especially last Satur-
day’s win in Imin. 9fsec., only a
quarter of a second outside
Spearby’s track record and close
to Australia’s best, I.BJ-, made
many years ago by Aurie’s Star
at Flemington. Birdwood has a
nice pull in the weights in the
Newmarket, and he could make
it tough for the opposition
should he retain present form and
condition. Tarien is topweight in
the big sprint, and also must have
an excellent show. She may
contest the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes next Saturday week.
Consistent two-year-old filly
Happy Harvest, who has not
been out of a place and not
further back than second in six
starts, added to her stakemoney
in the Gothic Nursery, her third
win. Despite her form backers
had as much as 6 to 1 about her
chance, closing-price being the
best odds. Trained by T. J.
Smith, Happy Harvest will be
given a short rest before racing
at the autumn carnival at Rand-
wick. There will be no more
racing at the A.J.C.’s head-
quarters until the middle of
April. Middlebrook, Biff and
Brush all ran much below recent
form, and Middlebrook seemed
a surprising first choice. She
had shaped moderately at her
prior start, when fifth to Biff,
who on that occasion beat
Happy Harvest.
When Channel Rise won the
A.J.C. Derby three years™ ago
from Montana and Trizami it
was expected by connections that
he would go on to Cups’ success,
or, at least, prove a useful
middle - distance performer.
However, those hopes haven’t
been realised. In fact, the now
five-year-old horse hasn’t won a
race since. He was among the
also-ran in the St. James Handi-
cap at Randwick. It suggests
that his win in the classic must
have been at the expense of weak
three-year-olds. Trizami, too,
hasn’t won a race since October,
1951, and he has been given many
chances. Incidentally, in the St.
James event Chantara, a swallow-
catcher on the tracks in the early
mornings, again let the stable
down.
Star of Stars, Moonee Valley
winner last Saturday, is one of
Melbourne’s best two-year-olds.
It was his second appearance, and
he had also won at his only other
run. Star of Stars drew No. 1
position in the Valley event,
“Must have a smashing serve!”
generally considered unfavorable,
though it would be an asset on
practically all other Australia n
tracks. Reason is that at the
Valley horses drawn wide out
appear to veer across soon after
the start and cut off those near
or alongside the rails. Star of
Stars was hampered in the early
part, but Williamson rode a
heady race and got his mount
through to victory. A chestnut
colt by Helios (imp.) from Arch
Lady, Star of Stars is one of the
successful team of trainer F. W.
Hoysted. Williamson also won
on Te Totara and Sir Dallas,
and is leading jockey in Mel-
bourne with successes, six
ahead of Jack Purtell.
4 • • •
The weight-for-age C. F. Orr
Stakes at Moonee Valley was
comfortably won by Flying
Halo, who showed a return to
best form. His record is now
19 wins and 16 minor places in
59 starts, for £24,515 in stakes.
In the Newmarket he is handi-
capped to top form, as he has
9.7, same weight as Raconteur.
Only horse above him is Tarien.
Cromis was a disappointment
in the C. F. Orr Stakes; his
5-to-4 backers saw him comfort-
ably beaten into third place, My
Hero finishing second. Cromis
will have to do a lot better if he
is to down the best of the three-
year-olds. My Hero’s burst into
second place, after being last
most of the way, drew attention
to engagements in longer-dis-
tance events ; he appears to have
regained his best form. He could
well be a winner on the day her
Majesty visits Flemington, as
he’s engaged in both the Aus-
tralian Cup and the Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes.
# • • •]
“P.0.M.C.”: Neville Sell-
wood’s five winners on Anniver-
sery Day narrowly eclipsed
Randwick’s previous best, which
was Jack Toohey’s four wins
and close second in 1921, when
the only other event on the day
was a hurdle race. Also, Sell-
wood’s remarkable performance
was unique for any major Aus-
tralian track in another respect
—his quintet of firsts were all
for one trainer, Maurice Mc-
Carten.
• # *
At the Royal Surf Carnival at
Bondi on Saturday, attended by
the Queen and the Duke of Edin-
burgh, and held in regal weather,
with big seas, the surf Test be-
tween Australia and N.Z. was
won by the Australians, 5-3.
Australia won the rescue-and-re-
suscitation, beach-relay, surf-ski
race, junior belt-race and junior
surf-race. N.Z. took out the
senior surf-, senior teams- and
senior belt-race. The Australian
star was 17-year-old Gary Win-
ram, who won both the junior
races. In the march-past, won by
Maroubra, there were 56 teams.
The Royal couple, very much
enjoying the show, stayed well
over their scheduled time.
The last surf contests between
Australia and N.Z. were in 1950
—in that year there were three
Tests, of which N.Z. won two.
The only other year the two
Dominions met was in 1937. It
should be an annual event.
» * *
It was here written (B.
3/2/’54) that the Duke of Edin-
burgh would probably have no
opportunity of seeing any cricket
in Australia. On Saturday he
managed to look-in at the
N.S.W.-W.A. match. What was
here more correctly propounded
was that the Duke’s presence
would give a boost to any game
he attended —there was bright
cricket from batsmen who, be-
fore his arrival, had been potter-
ing and dithering about.
South Africa easily defeated
N.Z. in the fourth Test, and so
took the rubber. The Springboks
won the first two Tests, and the
third, which N.Z. had the better
of, was drawn. In this fourth
Test, off-spinner Hugh Tayfield,
S’Africa’s bowling mainstay in
Australiia last season, set the
stage for victory by taking 6-13
in N.Z.’s first-innings 79. In one
spell he took five wickets with-
out a run being scored off him.
In Sheffield Shield cricket, Vic-
toria beat N.S.W. outright in
Sydney, and Queensland had a
similar, but easier, win over W.A.
in Brisbane. N.S.W. had its
share of bad luck —Test all-
rounder Alan Davidson taking
little part in the match through
injury, and Benaud and Briggs
batting a second time with
damaged fingers. Still, Victoria
had disposed of N.S.W., before
there were any casualties, for a
first-innings 182, which laid the
foundations for its win.
Last time W.A. played in Bris-
bane (in 1951-52) it was defeated
by an innings and 102 runs. This
time the margin was even greater
—an innings and 285. Queens-
land topped the 500 for the
second successive time (561
against Victoria the previous
week, 9-589 against the
Westerners). Mackay, after his
223 against Vic., fell just short of
a second double-century (198).
Another century-maker for Q.
was Clarrie Harvey (111), whose
brother Ray made a match-
winning 106 not out in the Vic.-
N.S.W. game. Perhaps the best
innings of all was Keith Miller’s
second-innings 143 for N.S.W.
Best bowling effort in the Bris-
bane game was spin-bowler Brian
Flynn’s 5-43 in W.A.’s first
knock. Flynn is a good-’un and
is considered a coming Test
player, but is not quite up to
Test standard yet. In Sydney,
Victorian left-arm medium-
pacer Lambert took 6-55 in
N.S.W.’s first-innings 182, while
for N.S.W. Ray Lindwall had
the best figures (4-67 in Vic.’s
first innings).
Central Districts (North
Island) won this season’s Plunket
Shield, the N.Z. equivalent of
the Sheffield Shield. Central
Districts has been in the Shield
competition for four years.
Admitted in 1950-51, it was
runner-up that year, was third
the following season and was
equal-second last year. Five
teams compete (the others are
Auckland, Otago, Wellington
and Canterbury), and each team
plays the other four once.
• * v
Left-hander Mervyn Rose won
this year’s Australian singles title
from his doubles partner, Rex
Hartwig, 6-2, 0-6, 6-4, 6-2. After
Hartwig had raced through the
second set, hardly losing a point
in it, and led 4-2 in the third, he
looked the winner. But Rose, not
wilting under pressure as he has
done so often in the past, fought
back, won the third set, and ran
out a comfortable winner.
Hoad, of course, didn’t play in
the tournament. Still, Rose
played really fine tennis
throughout, and had to overcome
some stout opposition from both
Seixas (in a quarter-final) and
Rosewall (semi-final). Against
Rosewall, in a five-set match,
Rose also fought back well from
a bad position. Rose, inci-
dentally, was runner-up to Rose-
wall in last year’s Australian
title.
• • • •
The doubles title went to Rose
and Hartwig, who easily defeated
the less experienced Wilderspin-
Fraser team. This means that
Rose-Hartwig have won four of
the five major Australian doubles
championships this season, as
well as holding the American
title. Rosewall and Hoad hold
the Wimbledon and French titles,
and the N.S.W.


Missed by Burl Ives
City Ditties
of the Early Days
By ROBIN GOODFELLOW
THE squatter of the pre-
selection days, the patri-
arch who came before the
Turon and Ned Kelly, was
not always the lantern-jawed
battler against drought and
floed or bushrangers and blacks
that the bush-ballad gives him
out to be.
Far from taking-down his
employees, as that much-
belauded ditty “The Squatter’s
Man” would have us believe, he
Was more often taken-down
himself. The city had its con.-
men dwelling on the bush-
whacker even then, as shown by
this contemporaneous ballad:
In cutting his dash our
squatter and his pal ran the
usual Boswellian risks. The
dives of George-street and the
gin-shops of The Rocks were
the haunts of lightfingered dabs
and lighter-hearted drabs. But
graver far were the risks they
ran of falling-in with
“crushers,” as the police of the
day were termed.
The Sydney police were
mighty men in 1847. How
swiftly the race decayed is
proved by the rhymesters of
Johnny Gilbert, Gardiner and
Ben Hall. In the 1840’s, by con-
trast, it was the “traphood” who
boasted a poet laureate, one
Frank Flightymuse. This Frank
(so the record runs), at the re-
quest of Sergeant Trapstick and
Constables Jack Taketip and
Samuel Smellrum, sang the vir-
tues of the constabulary:
Frank Flightymuse (the record
runs) was “a gentleman of the
most brilliant talents,” “a man
of genius,” possessed, further-
more, of a sound Dickensian
knowledge of the nature and
habits of policemen of his day —
as well he might be, since his
most celebrated ballad concerns
the fickle-hearted constable who
wooed Frank’s servant - maid.
Assuming her sentiments, Frank
addressed the errant No. 13A
in a feeling appeal;
We must not be misled into
believing that redressing Sydney
misdemeanors of the 1840’s was
the charge of the “traphood”
alone. On the contrary, they
found a veritable prop in dirty
weather in the “great J. Stubbs,”
Inspector-General of Nuisances
in the metropolis, a “worthy and
facetious gentleman” appointed
to disturb the lives of untidy
householders, careless cooks
and unscrupulous washerwomen.
Mr. Stubbs, we are told, had
never been remarkable for his
intellectual power, but in the
exercise of his authority he dis-
covered himself the lineal des-
cendant of those officers of
imperial Rome, the curatores
cloacarum urbis, the custodians
of the sewers of the city to
whom cabbage-leaves were a
curse and dead rats anathema.
Imbued with zeal for the cleanli-
ness of Sydney, he fell into the
habit of “gliding round corners,
with restless suspicion in his eye,
and a consciousness of uneasy
fear in his hurried gait.”
The causes of his restlessness,
his furtive darting from side to
side of the street, and his
martyred air of one who suffers
for his country’s good the
causes of those torments are
revealed in a touching self-
analysis :
Aye, life was hard for the
Stubbses of the smaller Sydney
of a century ago. And if it was
hard for the minor official, how
much harder was it for the
common citizen?
The hazards of the great out-
back were no more pressing
than the perils of Pitt-street.
Any day you might venture out
of doors to have the seat torn
from your pants by savage dogs.
To curb them, or bring their
owners to reason, the Dog Act
was passed, requiring all
pooches to be muzzled and kept
in control. Penalty, five pounds.
It happened that one day Mr.
William Baker, the facetious
publisher, lost control of his
dog, and, according to the “Syd-
ney Morning Herald,” was
“fined in the mitigated penalty
of £3 10s. for keeping a fero-
cious and savage dog.” The
occasion provided inspiration,
and this ditty ran around the
town;
The cynicism of our city
forbids the hearty versifying
produced by the unsophisticated
temperament of the 1840’s, when
local potentates were berhymed
with humor and ease.
What Lord Mayor of today
would find a poet laureate like
the author of “Billy Barlow,”
who, in 1845, when Sir George
Gipps was still Governor,
Joseph Wyatt ran the Victoria
Hotel and Theatre, and Sydney’s
water came from Botany
swamps through Busby’s bore,
composed this ditty? :
THE SQUATTER CUTS
A DASH
I was a squatter bold and free,
Though far from home exiled;
And I could boast a num’rous host
Of sheep and cattle wild.
I quail’d not ’neath the summer’s
heat;
The winter’s cold I bore:
A bushy beard that ne’er was shear’d
And clothes of tweed I wore.
I milk’d my cows, and kept my sheep
In common with my men:
Nor carriage neat, nor coursers fleet
I kept about me then.
My wool brought me a handsome
price;
My cattle still increased;
My flocks in size, my means likewise,
From growing never ceased.
I paid my fees, assessments too,
Nor feared impending smash;
My credit stood in Sydney good,
And I was saving cash.
Whilst thriving thus, three years
passed by:
I went not once to town:
At last a friend, to serve his end,
To Sydney brought me down.
Says he, “Let’s act like gentlemen”;
He knew I’d laid by cash;
And therefore we, both I and he,
In town could cut a dash.
I lent my friend a good round sum
Just out of courtesy;
No mortgage took, nor did I look
For his security.
We passed our time in first-rate style,
As jolly squatters should;
And set at nought each whisp’ring
thought
As to how matters stood.
At length the thought struck me
that we
Had gone too far ahead;
For I found out, beyond all doubt,
My cash had nearly fled.
In vain I strove to stop my friend
In this our mad career:
All I could say he dash’d away,
And cost me very dear.
At last my pocket was clean’d out,
My friend then slipp’d away;
And I was left, of means bereft,
A tightish bill to pay.
I had to mortgage all my sheep
And boil my cattle down;
My friend had seen that I was green,
And therefore did me brown.
Pray gents, take warning by my fate,
Ne’er shew off nor be flash;
Your cash don’t lend, but cut your
friend
Rather than cut a dash.
TO THE SYDNEY POLICE
My soaring muse, pray stay your
flight,
And pause upon your wing;
In honor of the Traphood’s might
Just try a stave to sing.
With triple -brass the man is armed
Whose quarrel is the best;
But better still the trap is armed
When buttoned o’er his breast
His coat of blue, so fine and new,
With silvered buttons glows.
The knightly belt and handcuffs then
Strike terror to his foes.
The livery of his Queen he wears
And loves that livery well;
Albeit too large his coat appears,
He stalks a first-rate smell.
No gent well dressed in silken vest
Appears than trap more neat,
His coat as buttoned o’er his breast
He walks upon his beat.
The Roman soldiers brave and bold,
Besides their arms bore fetters;
But crushers brave full twenty-fold
In this are much their betters:
For heavy chains too much restrain
Their bearers by their weight;
They weighed the buoyant spirit
down,
And broke the hearts elate.
But darbies are both light and strong
And hold a man securely;
Reluctantly he walks along
And looks he so demurely.
He knows ’tis vain e’er to complain
Whene’er they are his wrist on;
And happy is the gallant trap
When he has got them fixed on.
Besides, the Roman bore his own
Provisions on his back;
But crushers, do such care disown;
For prog they never lack.
By many a maid is dinner laid
For dear traps in the kitchen,
Who smile so sweet as down their
throats
They’re dainty morsels pitching.
How valiantly he stalks along
When all around is gloom;
And fearlessly he hums a song,
Praising his lady’s bloom.
The crusher brave to love’s a slave,
As every one must be;
But none loves truer than the trap,
And none more loved than he.
He gazes on his staff, bedight
With picture of the crown,
Then brave resolves that belted knight
To put all treason down;
For faith rests in the crusher’s breast,
No traitor thought is there;
He loves his Queen, and he loves
his pay,
And he loves his pint of beer.
Ah! who can tell what anxious care
Wrinkles the crusher’s brow?
Is’t anxiety, or is’t despair
That charms that crusher now?
Th’ affairs of State, with pond’rous
weight,
Press on that sinking head,
As he broods o’er revolutions strange,
And reformations dread.
But when the hour at length is come,
That leaves him to his sport;
When the lawyers’ brawlings all are
done
And cleared at length the court,
He puts aside the crusher’s pride
And is a man again.
He to his love and dinner flies,
And courts and eats amain.
But fast the fleeting hours go by
In courtship’s happy dream;
They scarce are noticed as they fly,
The hours as minutes seem;
Till the time has come which ends
the fun,
And stops the gay flirtations.
Then parting kisses take the traps,
And hie them to their stations.
TO THE DILATORY TRAP
My dearest trap, where art thou
straying,
Why from your Jane so long
delaying?
Has the Commissioner appointed
Thee to some more distant station?
Or art thou now engaged deeply,
Looking for the situation
Of some illegal hidden still,
“Wicked willainy” detecting,
And to justice bringing all
You catch in such illegal acting?
Oh dearest trap, where art thou
straying,
Thus from your love so long
delaying?
Art thou round the corner peeping,
Watching yonder public inn
To detect the hostess selling
After hours —a pint of gin?
Or art thou to the watchhouse
dragging
Some poor drunken, reeling snob
Whom before the court you’ll bring,
In hopes to share th’ eleven bob?
My gentle trap, where art thou
straying,
From your Jane so long delaying?
Art thou after those poor wretches,
Who, starving, would presume to beg,
Who, too old for any labor,
And covered scarcely by a rag,
You must take into the watchhouse,
There t’ abide J.P.’s inspection;
Who this sentence sure will give ’em:
“Confine ’em for their own
protection”?
Oh dearest trap, say wherefore
straying,
From your love so long delaying?
Or art thou now amidst a row,
Using thy truncheon valiantly,
Knocking numbers down with force,
And taking them up gallantly?
Or art thou, dearest, dead knocked
up,
Confined upon a painful bed,
By bruises from some brawler gotten,
Who broke the peace—then broke
thy head?
Oh, dearest trap, where art thou
straying,
Why from your Jane so long you’re
staying?
Or as a witness are you kept,
The Police Office long attending,
Proving ’gainst the man you’ve caught
In the very act of lending
Unto himself what was not his,
And by your oath there help in
sending
Him before another court,
In spite of lawyer’s best defending?
My dearest trap, where art thou
straying.
From your love so long delaying?
Or have you got a staff appointment
To wait upon the new Lord Mayor,
Keeping backwards, with your staff,
All who erst would rudely dare
Intrude upon his Worship’s rest
And out of place and out of season
Make their complaints before him
there.
Against all rule and rhyme and
reason?
Oh, crusher dear, where art thou
straying,
Why from your Jane so long art
staying?
THE WOES OF STUBBS
I roam along the crowded street,
But meet no friendly eye.
Ashamed I feel each friend to meet,
All look so very shy;
Inspector made, I thought to gain
Respect and fond esteem:
But lonely now, I feel how vain
Was that delusive dream.
That passing man, he was my friend
Before this dreadful change—
Now far away his footsteps tend,
And leave me a wide range;
Full many a happy glass we’ve drunk
Ere that unlucky vote,
But now goodfellowship is sunk
Because he keeps a goat.
Another comes, with look severe,
Unmoved he passes by,
No friendly smile his features wear
Of kindly sympathy.
He owns a pig! and wide awake
He trusts in me no more —
But for his dirty porker’s sake
He votes me an old bore.
The cabmen, as I pass along,
Begin to jeer and shout,
And this the burden of tbeir song:
“Does your mother know you’re
out?”
In rage and shame along the wall
I slink with heart sore aching,
And peeping round, behold them all
A line of lunars taking.
The housemaid, pail of slops in hand
Just ready for the gutter,
Starts back to see me on my stand,
And in an awful flutter
Retreats with muttered word and look
In which I plainly see
With what profound delight she’d
fling
The contents over me.
When Hercules was sorely tried
To cleanse Augean stables.
He introduced the river’s tide,
And thus he turned the tables;
The greater task 'that’s left to me,
At least should gain me pity.
For Hercules could never be
The man to cleanse the City.
THE DOG ACT
Zooks! we must woo our Muse today,
And set some verses all agog:
“On what occasion?” perhaps you’ll
say:
Why, Baker keeps a savage dog!
Not a sweet pug, which ladies fair,
When out they stroll, keep in a jog,
No! Small pretence to debonnaire,
Has Baker’s savage brush-tailed dog.
In Wilts, “Punch” tells, a handsome
prize
J.P.’s award for well-fed hog;
But they of Sydney, far more wise,
Impose a fine for ill-bred dog.
The Dog Act (6th of William 4th)
Enacts —“Unless you chain and flog.
And humanise it, and so forth,
Five pounds you pay for savage dog.”
And Wearin’s corps in fines delight—
In that regard they need no jog—
The savage boxer, he may fight—
But woe betide the savage dog!
And so the fine above recounted,
A mighty policeman, like Magog,
With truncheon thick, and whiskers
mounted,
Demands for keep of Baker’s dog.
The fine is paid: and brush-tail,
frighted,
Must now walk Sydney streets incog-
Or, by Sec. IX of Act recited,
Essay to pass for mild “sheep dog.”
Ye Three Pound Ten! Ye Three
Pound Ten!
Ye’d bought us many a glass of grog!
But in the path of wilful men
How oft will come a scampish dog!
Now George-, and King-, and Pitt-
streets dear —
No more like wild morass or bog,
Infested by wild beasts —are clear,
For Baker’s sent away his dog.
And auctioneers, and saints, and
sinners,
Whether in sunshine, rain, or fog,
Can come and eat their King-street
dinners
Without the fear of savage dog.
The moral we forbear to draw,
For fear “their Worships” say we
cog;—
Refund’s no fund in Police Law; —•
Farewell, in fine, that “fine for
dog!”
Our Muse, she sleeps: our verses
fail;
And supper waits, we want our prog.
So rhyme and time cut short our tale,
The long tale of this brush-tail dog.
THE MAYOR'S TEA PARTY
ẃ
((Continued on page 34)


You may
losing
a lot of value in
your foodstuffs
It is well established that
ground feed has very much
higher nutritive value than
plain feed, resulting in more
milk, more meat, more wool.
(p^l
wQq
m
me
MS
U
U
GRIND YOUR
OWN FEED
with a
PULVOMIU
HAMMER TYPE GRINDER
4 Models Available
Models E. & F. for use on the average farm.
★ Model H. for use on larger farms and in industry.
Model EOS. specially designed for Oyster Shell
Grinding.
GRINDING, MIXING & BAGGING OFF IN
ONE OPERATION
Sole Distributors
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Nr. Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509 Phone, BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
AD 19
Do you shrink from
making friends?
When you feel like starting
a friendly conversation with a
stranger, does shyness hold
you hack? Don’t let it, advises
A. J. Cronin, famous author of
“The Citadel.”
In February Reader’s Digest
you can read his Interesting
article for yourself, see how
easy it is—by overcoming that
moment’s hesitation —to win
interesting new friendships,
enrich your whole life.
Also in February Reader’s
Digest—" How to help someone
in sorrow,” “I saw the forbid-
den city”—and 29 other stimu-
lating articles.
February Reader's Digest
on sale now —one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get your copy now.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS
There is considerable comment
in the British and U.S. Press on
the possibilities, and the advan-
tages or otherwise, of the U.S.
recognising Red China. A good
deal of it might be termed cat-
watching, but the Washington
correspondent of the “New
Statesman” reports “a recurrent
rumor in Washington that the
U.S. may slowly and tentatively
edge towards the British attitude
on Communist China”:
“Influential voices are being
heard inside President Eisen-
hower’s official family, urging a
reconsideration of American
policy in Asia. A very
few high officials are begin-
ning to question the wisdom
of U.S. non-recognition of
China, and are wondering a
little about America’s unbending
opposition to seating Communist
China in the United Nations,
These challenging voices are
being kept to a whisper, but the
whispers are penetrating the
White House and State Depart-
ment,
“One of the promoters is
Arthur Dean, who represented
the U.N. at the Panmunjon talks
preliminary to the proposed poli-
tical conference on Korea. Dean
enjoys unbounded confidence
among the senior policy planners
of the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration.”
Of perhaps greater national
influence than Dean, Vice-
President Richard Nixon seems
to have lost some of his former
enthusiasm for the prospects of
the Chiang Kai-shek regime:
“Nixon described Chiang’s
exiled regime as ‘somehow
pathetic’ and composed of men
‘who had guessed wrong’; to an
American politician this is the
ultimate indictment. In another
private utterance Nixon paid
formal deference to Formosa’s
military potential; but in the
same breath he discounted this
by brushing aside the suggestion
that Chiang’s forces could retake
the mainland.
“Dean goes further than
Nixon, He has made the start-
ling, though tardy, discovery that
the American people have been
victims of a gigantic Formosan
hoax. Secondly, Dean has been
telling U.S. Administration
leaders about Red China’s grow-
ing foreign trade. He has men-
tioned that China is Pakistan’s
principal market for cotton.
“He [Dean] has alluded to
Japan’s interest in China as a
commercial outlet —an interest
accentuated lately by Japan’s
disastrous rice-crop failure, with
its impact on the whole Japanese
economy. While Nixon told at
least one important official in
Asia that gradual lifting of
restrictions on China trade may
come. Dean considers that the re-
opening of the China market is
unavoidable.”
That report is supported to
some extent by Roscoe Drum-
mond (New York “Herald
Tribune”), who adds that those
in favor of a change in U.S.
policy towards China “point out
that recognition does not mean
approval of Communist China
any more than it means approval
of all the Governments of Latin
America or approval of the
Soviet Union. It simply means
maintaining diplomatic contact.”
These advocates of recognition
of China hold that Communist
China wants to achieve inde-
pendence of the Soviet Union,
and they believe that “it would
be in the interest of the U.S. to
encourage division between
Moscow and Peking. One way to
do that is to give Communist
China fuller political and
economic contacts with the West,
New York “Herald Tribune”
“BEWITCHED ... BOTHERED ... AND BEWILDERED ”
rather than drive her, perhaps
unwillingly, into the arms of
Russia by a policy of enforced
isolation.”
To which London “Daily
Express” adds:
“China has often been the foe
of Russia and has never been her
trustful friend—-far less her
satellite. One glance at the map
of Asia provides the reason why:
the vast belt of territory tradi-
tionally in dispute between the
two Powers.
“The gospel of Marx may
drive China and Russia towards
one another. But only major
stupidity on the part of the West
could convert this attachment
into something warmer,
“Which policy is the more
likely to drive China closer to
Russia: to treat her as a Great
Power or to treat her as a
leper?”
While, however, most com-
mentators agree on the advan-
tages of political recognition,
there is less unanimity on the
prospects of trade. Against some
American optimism, London
“Daily Express” remarks that
“when the gates were wide open
our [Britain’s] exports to China
were never of decisive import-
ance; and although the new
China may offer for a time a
larger prospective market, her
ultimate aim also is self-
sufficiency—and her chief trade
meanwhile will be with Russia.”
With that point of view a
London “Financial Times” cor-
respondent largely agrees: “Some
estimates [of the China market
potential] are clearly fantastic.
The goods China most wants
from the West are principally
those that fall under the strategic
embargo. Even if the ban were
lifted, it would seem that there is
little China has to offer to the
West in return, except bristles,
tung-oil, silk, tea and soya-
beans.”
Berio—His Books
When he became a casualty in
the battle for power within the
Soviet, the late Lavrenti P. Beria
left his Comrades a couple of
interesting literary problems.
As reported by London
“Observer,” Beria published in
1935 a book called On the Ques-
tion of the History of the
Bolshevik Organisations in
Transcaucasia: “This book, with
its unassuming title, is in fact
the main source of the legend of
Stalin as the right-hand man, ‘the
most intimate champion, the
most devoted and consistent
comrade-in-arms, of great
Lenin.’
“Soon after Beria’s fall his
book was denounced by the
Georgian Central Committee as
‘anti-Marxist’ and the cause of
‘enormous damage,’ but no wide-
spread attack on it has yet been
made. If Stalin’s successors wish
to continue their efforts to dis-
credit their old leader, they have
here a weapon ready for use.
They can let it be generally
known that the legend of Stalin's
special relationship to Lenin, on
which so much has been
founded, turns out to rest largely
on the testimony of a ‘traitor,’
executed for his crimes.”
There is,' according to “New
York Times,” a rather more curly
problem with volume V of the
Great Soviet Encyclopaedia,
which contains a highly lauda-
tory biography of Beria, and
which runs to 300,000 copies
spread throughout Russia and
the outside world as well.
Now, “all subscribers to the
Great Soviet Encyclopaedia have
been provided with four substi-
tute pages for volume V. With
these has come a note which
‘recommends’ that they cut out
the pages on which Beria’s bio-
graphy appears and paste in
instead the new pages which
feature pictures of the Bering
Sea and a biography of Friedrich
Wilhelm Bergholtz.
“Beria, so far as the encyclo-
pedia is concerned, has been
drowned without trace in the
Bering Sea.”
Spy-hunting
America’s enemies make a
good deal of capital out of
McCarthyism, and even good
friends find the same manifesta-
tion hard to swallow, but some
of the factors which make the
U.S. so acutely aware of the
Communist threat seem well
worth examining.
“It is hard,” comments Lon-
don “Time and Tide,” “for the
citizens of an ancient, compact,
island nation [Britain] to realise
what the Communist danger
means to a huge widespread
confederation, made up of
peoples drawn from many differ-
ent nations, with different back-
grounds and traditions, with
different languages and customs,
many of whom are first- or
second-generation citizens of the
United States.
“The great achievement of
American politics is to have
made a nation, but the nation
is still, from generation to
generation, in process of forma-
tion. The Communist idea
which challenges belief in
national loyalties and in demo-
cratic liberties... .is liable to be
more dangerous and destructive
in the United States than per-
haps anywhere else in the
Western world.”
On the other hand, while it
may be hard for European
countries to appreciate the
forces and motives behind Uncle
Sam’s determined Red-hunting,
Americans, for their part, find
it difficult to comprehend the
easier European attitude to
Communists in those parts.
For instance, “U.S. News and
World Report” notes that “when
Communists are found in any
branch of the American Gov-
ernment or armed forces a cry
goes up and the hunt is on. A
comparable discovery in Europe
stirs little interest, no big
investigation”:
“Communists, in fact, honey-
comb the Governmental
bureaux of France and Italy. A
few are found in Britain—-which
shows more concern over their
presence. Even if uncovered,
however, a Communist can ex-
pect merely to be moved from a
‘sensitive’ to a ‘non-sensitive’ job.
Few are fired. Civil-service
codes protect them on the pay-
rolls. Laws forbid discrimina-
tion against political beliefs.
Only if caught spying are they
prosecuted.
“Part of Europe’s mild atti-
tude is due to the large numbers
of Communists there —far more
than in America. The Com-
munist party in France polls
more than four million votes,
has 92 seats in Parliament.
Italian Communists poll more
than six million votes, have 143
Parliamentary seats. How, they
ask in Rome, can you outlaw a
fifth of the voters?”
Taking each country in turn,
“U.S. News and World Report”
goes on to say that, though
Communists have been barred
from important posts in Britain
and the screening of Govern-
ment employees tightened, the
Government has used its power
very sparingly to fire them for
“political unreliability”:
“In the last 5i years there
have been only 143 ‘reliability’
cases. In these, 65 persons were
held unfit for top-secret work.
Yet other Government jobs
were found for them. About
20 quit, 23 were dismissed.
Another 27 were cleared.
Several cases are still pending.
“Action against a suspect on
the Government payroll is
taken with traditional British
regard for his protection. He is
allowed a full hearing, per-
mitted to resign without publi-
city. Often suspects are merely
transferred to ‘non - sensitive’
posts. All proceedings are
i secret.
“Britain’s biggest legal
weapon against spies is its
' Official Secrets Act, under which
both Fuchs and Nunn May were
convicted. It defines peace-time
espionage as transmitting to
; other nations or persons any
information obtained in an
official capacity, regardless of
intent.
“Britain still has in reserve
the same powerful weapon used


n
c
on
development
Many years have passed (
since the days when fuelling
equipment was no more than
a solid-tyred open lorry loaded
with petrol cans. Aircraft have
been developed to such an extent
that fuelling has become an
operation requiring precision
equipment. High pumping speeds,
micro-filtered fuel and uplifts of
many tons have made it necessary
for considerable efforts to be
devoted to fueller development.
This illustration shows an underwing
integral coupling being connected, pre-
paratory to fuelling a Comet. It is but
one example of the results of development
over the years, which now enable the green
and yellow fuellers of BP. Aviation Service
efficiently to meet the requirements
of the most modern aircraft.
Sipi
7-;<
‘M :
Y
AVIATION
w
SERVICE
Operated tn Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.
*/53
by Canada in its 1946 spy in-
vestigation—a Royal Commis-
sion with almost limitless
powers of inquiry. There is a
real possibility that it will
eventually be employed. But, in
the meantime, the British will
deal with Communists in their
own quiet way.”
The French Constitution pro-
hibits discrimination against
Government employees because
of political belief, so any
measures against them must be
taken under one pretext or an-
other. Such measures have
been and are being taken with
“increasing intensity.”
Similarly, applicants for Gov-
ernment jobs, if suspect, can be
rejected on vague “morality”
grounds or for “lack of quali-
fications.” If, however, they can
prove they were rejected for
Communist leanings they can
appeal for reappointment. Some
have succeeded.
Officials already on the
French Government payroll are
not automatically subject to a
security check, and spy-hunting
rates only a low priority in
France—there are no atom-
secrets to conceal and few
innovations in jet - planes or
weapons to protect. Important
military plans are closely held
by a few high-ranking and
thoroughly-purged Army offi-
cers;
“The French draw a sharp
distinction between the prob-
lems of Communists in Govern-
ment and Soviet espionage.
They believe espionage is
handled exclusively by Russian
undercover organisations, not by
open Communists. They claim
routine screening of employees
will not ferret out those really
dangerous ones. So they use
counter - intelligence techniques
—infiltration by undercover
operatives, double-agents and
defectors:
“The Communist party [in
France] has been growing stead-
ily weaker. Its membership has
been halved —to. below 400,000.
Many anti-Communists feel the
most productive course is to
woo the Communists and re-
integrate them into the French
nation, rather than outlaw them
into underground martyrdom,”
In Italy Pella, as Premier,
pledged that there would be no
discrimination for political be-
liefs ; with six million Com-
munist voters, any other atti-
tude was reckoned to be politi-
cal suicide.
There has been some job-
shifting in Italy to remove Com-
munists from important posi-
tions, but no thorough house-
cleaning, and a move last year
to organise security-checks on
civil-servants was rejected as
“undemocratic.” An Italian
Government employee cannot
be dismissed because he is a
Communist or even if there is
“reasonable doubt” of his
loyalty.
“Italy’s laws against anti-
state activity are of Fascist
origin,” adds “U.S. News and
World Report,” “and, for obvi-
ous political reasons, the Govern-
ment is unwilling to use them.
Bills to improve these laws and
to outlaw political strikes in
essential industries stand little
chance of passing Parliament.
“The [ltalian] Government
attitude toward the internal
Communist danger is generally
weaker today than in the past.
That is because of the lack
of an effective Parliamentary
majority since the last election
and the growing Red vote.”
For the rest of the Continent;
“The only West European
countries with laws specifically
barring Communists from Gov-
ernment jobs are Holland, a
minor military force, and West
Germany, which is still unarmed
and is not even permitted any
defence industries.
“Germany, however, is honey-
combed with Communist spies
attracted by the big Allied mili-
tary establishments there.
“Switzerland, Denmark and
Sweden have taken some action
against Communists under vague
regulations that authorise trans-
fer of security-suspects to ‘non-
sensitive’ posts, or their dis-
charge in certain cases.
A recent rash of spy cases
has pointed up the danger in
these smaller countries eight
spy arrests in Finland and seven
m Norway.
St. Louis " Globe-Democrat”
“WEDGED BETWEEN THE STOCKPILES”
John Bull's Bills
A quick summary—from the
“Atlanta Constitution,” U.S.A.
—of what Britain has done with,
and about, U.S. grants and
loans:
“Total [U.S.] grants and loans
were made to Britain between
January 1, 1946, and Decem-
ber 31, 1952, to the amount of
£2,556,000,000. It is significant
that the British have made
grants and loans themselves to
the amount of £1,504,000,000.
In other words, half of the
grants and loans she has re-
ceived have gone to other areas
in the international job of
rehabilitation.
“In proportion to her re-
sources, Great Britain has borne
her share of the load in world
responsibilities. With years of
austerity and sacrifice behind
them, the British people con-
tinue to win admiration for their
dogged determination and devo-
tion to the ideals of freedom and
democracy.
“On December 31, 1953,
Britain paid her annual instal-
ments on her debt to America.
The payment included both
interest and capital and
amounted to over $119,000,000
and $18,000,000 respectively.
Thus Britain has paid three
annual instalments covering the
period 1951-53 inclusive, total-
ling $413,000,000.
“These are the full amounts
which Britain is called upon to
pay, and she is managing to
meet her commitments in spite
of the continuous strain on her
economy. Annual instalments
being paid to the U.S. are
equivalent to something like the
value of the goods that the
United Kingdom sends to this
country in four months.”
Dragnet Digest
Most Characteristic Product.
—According to a London
“Twentieth Century” review of
The Sunburnt Country : “A de-
pressingly large number of those
who shake the Royal hand [in
Australia] will be politicians, fat
and thin, bald and hairy; clad
in blue suits and grey, some
with cultured accents and some
with grating tones —differing in
themselves, but forming in the
mass perhaps the most charac-
teristic product of The Sunburnt
Country.”
Jap Trade Rivals. —The Tokyo
correspondent of “New York
Times” quotes British business-
men there as insisting that
the old battle against “the
cheaper Japanese product” has
started all over again.' Their
reports to head-offices in Britain
have warned that the Japanese
No. 1 target will be Britain’s
traditional markets in the Middle
East: “The British believe that
coming cuts in United States
military spending in Japan will
force Japanese industrialists to
check every export outlet. With
the United States Government
still blocking trade with Com-
mumst China, they say the
Japanese will inevitably turn to
sterling outlets in general and
those in the Middle East —where
restrictions on Japanese trading
do not exist —in particular.”
In Malaya. —Summing-up by
an experienced onlooker,
W, C. S. Corry, in London
“Spectator”: “A tiny minority
of the people in Malaya actively
support the terrorists —many of
these under compulsion a
larger minority backs up the
Government in its campaign
[against the terrorists], while the
majority have sat on the fence
awaiting the outcome and ready
to drop down on either side.
But the all-important fact is
that the fence-sitters grow pro-
gressively fewer as numbers join
the Anti-Communist Crusade.
Therein lies the principal, per-
haps the only, hope for the
future.”
China Famine. —As reported
by a London “Recorder” cor-
respondent, China now faces
famine as the climax “of a year
of natural and man-made dis-
asters” : “Her 450,000,000 people
have been subjected to joint
bludgeoning by droughts and
floods and by iron-hard Com-
munist bureaucracy. The late
crops cannot stave off the fore-
cast famine. Only Russia might
do that by a major food hand-
out —if she can, or if she will.”
Helping Japs Rearm. —New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ment: “Japanese rearmament
will, doubtless, require economic
assistance from the United States.
The maintenance of an island
bastion against a possible foray
from Red China or Russia into
the Pacific is sufficiently import-
ant to the United States to make
such assistance a matter of
course.”
Change Towards Spain.—Not-
ing that the agreement on bases
between Washington and Madrid
has caused far less of an outcry
in Europe than might have been
expected, London “Economist”
concludes that those who angrily
denounced a few years ago any
idea of admitting Spain to the
Atlantic alliance are now pre-
pared to turn a blind eye on a
deal with one Atlantic partner
in which they have no part, but
which has much the same effect
as taking Spain into Nato:
“The attitude has practical ad-
vantages, even if it is not free
of hypocrisy; and it betokens
a change in mood,”
Uncle Sam, Internationalist. —
Comment on the U.S. pact with
Spain by the Turkish publica-
tion “Yeni Istanbul”: “We have
lately been hearing, quite fre-
quently, reports about the alleged
intention of the United States
to return to its previous policy
of isolation. No doubt should
be entertained on the point that
these reports are being circulated
with the intention of under-
mining the nerves of the free
world. Actually, the agreement
signed with Spain clearly shows
the true orientation of United
States policy.”
Germany the Key. —lt is (a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent comments) diffi-
cult to see how the whole
tangled problem of East-
West tensions can be settled until
the basic problem of Germany
is met and resolved. “With
Western policy pinned to the
principle of German reunifica-
tion, and with Russian policy
equally pinned to the principle
of buttressing the Kremlin’s allies
in Eastern Germany, it is diffi-
cult, to say the least, to foresee
any sudden and dramatic lessen-
ing of the present tension.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Trams and Sydney
Although Australians are sceptical of
any publicity handouts by local transport
commissioners, they accept at face-value
the statements of similar wallahs over-
seas, such as the assurance by the Socia-
list-created London Transport Executive
—a transport dictatorship with all the
trimmings, including an elaborate pro-
paganda department—that Londoners
are better off without trams. Yet that,
after all, is merely self-applause of a
type often heard from our own boards,
commissions, etc.
In 1950-52, under ex-union-president
Lord Latham, the L.T.E. literally “burned
its trams” and destroyed the 745 obso-
lete conduit tramcars serving South Lon-
don. Conducted as a burlesque military
campaign (“Operation Tram-Away,”
“mopping-up the trams,” etc.) at an
estimated cost (since exceeded) of
£A11,250,000, such a transaction was
naturally a success —officially. A differ-
ent story may be read in the English
Press —of higher fares, longer passenger-
queues and traffic-jams forcing motorists
to park and then beg saucy conductresses
to allow them on a bus.
London is the largest city, but not
necessarily the wisest. Veteran press-
men, with memories of London bus-
queues and packed underground trains in
London, New York and Paris, have
recorded their appreciation of Melbourne
and Brisbane tram-services. If trams
failed in London —and they have not
failed in Washington, Berlin or Phila-
delphia—the causes were outworn
vehicles, bad 1 track-layout and general
neglect of equipment.
If Sydney spurns the advantages of
1954-type trams —their long life, reli-
ability, greater vehicle-capacity, lower
operating cost per passenger, and quieter
running—it will face, in the long run,
greater capital and operating expediture,
leading in turn to higher fares or more
handouts from taxation revenue.
The solution to most transport tangles
lies not in scrapping trams, but rather in
scrapping politicians and officials who
have neglected these State assets and
refused to build high-powered models,
thousands of which serve profitably in
the U.S.A., Canada, Sweden, Belgium
and Germany.— Firedrake (Q.).
“Petroleum Geologists”
With the oil boom there has been a
resuscitation of moribund petroleum
companies, together with a number of
new floatations. In most cases these
are not even remotely connected —geo-
logically or financially—with coastal
Western Australia, and some of the
revived companies have behind them a
record which would scare off any sane
investor.
The appearance of these mushroom
companies has also brought out of their
burrows a crowd of self-styled “oil ex-
perts” to some of whom is applied the
term “petroleum geologists.”
As the oil industry does not enjoy the
protection which is the legal right of
lawyers and solicitors, of doctors and
dentists, and of the members of other
professional- and trade-unions, it may
be of value to define what a petroleum
geologist should be.
The title should apply only to those
with a background of specialised aca-
demic training in stratigraphical geology
who have served an apprenticeship on
producing oilfields. In that way they
have learnt, through bitter experience
and heartbreak, to avoid some of the
many pitfalls which harass the applica-
tion of theory to practice in the oil game.
—Petro (N.S.W.).
Contemporary Criticism
It is not good criticism merely to dis-
miss most contemporary painting as
“rubbish” (B. 6/1/’54). Consider Con-
stable and Turner in their own time.
Constable won recognition with “The
Haywain.” The French romantics enthused
over it, but the English coldly wondered
what all the fuss was about. When he
died 140 lots of his paintings, includ-
ing 14 major works, went for 2000
guineas.
Turner was precocious—an established
artist at 20 and elected an Associate R.A.
at 24, From then on he was the target
of virulent criticism, academicians of the
day declaring that he used a haze of light
to cover the forms of nature.
There are other instances. Mozart at
first found Beethoven unimpressive;
Mendelssohn declared that Berlioz had
no talent but plenty of conceit; James
Joyce struggled for nine years to get
Dubliners published; and Shaw wrote
for about the same time without an
acceptance. —A. E. S. (Tas,).
Melbourne
Melbourne of 1954 may be an attrac-
tive place to many people, but I am
glad that I knew it in the days before
World War I.
Not only has the character of the city
altered tremendously, but so have the
people who throng the streets. They
don’t look cosmopolitan or city types;
the air of smartness has gone, and this,
with a plentiful supply of street-litter,
gives a most depressing air of second-
rateness to the whole set-up.
The change is particularly noticeable
in the centre of the city, the shopping
area. The sort of trade which was once
confined more to suburban sreets, such
as Smith-street and Chapel-street, has
now taken almost complete charge, and
the fine old individual businesses of
quality-class have, to a great extent, given
way to, or been absorbed by, huge
departmental and chain-store types of
business.
The reason is obvious. Huge spending-
power is now in the hands of the masses,
and people who, in the old days, were
limited by their purses to more modest
suburban shopping have overrun the
city. Big business has been quick to cash-
in on that, but, unfortunately, it has
played-down to the common taste, which
is so often deplorable. Nowhere is that
better illustrated than in the windows of
the furniture emporiums.
If Melbourne is to look a real capital
city and not a second-rate provincial
town a lot of sprucing and smartening-up
is called for. There should, for a start,
be a clearing-out of all the “characters”
“And try to get him moving round a bit!”
who lie about on the lawns in front of
such places as the Public Library and
the Cathedral and on any other open
spaces where they can sprawl and scatter
The police look neat enough in their
uniforms, but other public utilities which
issue uniforms to their employees—par-
ticularly the Tramways and Railways—
should see that they are worn correctly,
Too many of the shops have subdivided
their frontages into all sorts of cubby-
holes, some of them barely large enough
for the occupant to stand, and the many
arcades with their tiny shops are more
like warrens than anything else. The
“ Nemesis? Whose?”
atmosphere is fast becoming like that of
some Levantine bazaar, and many of the
traders in these labyrinths look as though
they had been transplanted from just such
a setting.
I often wonder what would happen if
a carriage-and-pair of early-1900 vint-
age were to draw up outside the site of
what was once one of the quality-class
shops—the type of place which main-
tained a commissionaire in white gloves
to open doors and carry parcels. No
doubt some sort of riot would ensue, and
yet it’s not so long since that sort of
shopping was the order of the day.
Garish picture-shows, milk-bars, radio-
and bag-shops, peanut-bars, sandwich-
stalls, tiny delicatessens and coffee-
lounges (where it is quite impossible to
lounge) are a poor substitute.
The nasty (but by no means cheap) has
taken the place of elegance and space.
Even the top of Collins-street —under
the trees —where the Melbourne Club and
doctors’ houses used to shed an aura of
peace and respectability over the scene,
has fallen under the baneful influence.
Cafes and restaurants are quite inade-
quate unless one favors the sort of steak-
and-eggs joint conducted by the
übiquitous gentlemen from Cyprus, and
there is no need to dilate on the swill
conditions which prevail in the hotels.
Confound this so-called progress!
Give me the old Melbourne, when a stroll
down Collins-street was a pleasure; the
time when people used to “do the Block.”
The days of the old cable-trams, when
their tinkling bells mingled with the clip-
clop of a hansom-cab, were less trying
on nerves and tempers than the roar of
the modern electric juggernauts and the
reek of carbon-monoxide.— Ceg (Vic.).
New States
Our multiple rail-gauges and divergent
divorce laws were faults handed down
from the colonial free States, and “Ann”
errs in blaming contemporary Australians
for them (B. 13 /1 / ’54). Federation has
wiped out State-mindedness to a con-
siderable extent. The creation of new
States would tend to strengthen our Aus-
tralian outlook rather than weaken it.
Criticism of the principle of new States
mostly comes from the big capitals. As a
resident of the central-west of N. S. Wales
I can see the partly-completed Burrendong
Dam and the partly-completed Maryvale-
Sandy Hollow railway, both now aban-
doned by the Sydney Government.
Premier Cahill says he has no funds, but
the other day he dug up £2,000,000 for
Sydney’s Water Board to speed-up work
on Warragamba Dam.
This policy of so much for the big
capitals and so little for rural areas has
been going on for years. That is why we
rustics want new States, K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Biographies
lives of literary people don’t have
tQ be packed w ith adventure to make
them good subjects for biography (B
Life of Johnson and
Lockhart Life of Sir Walter Scott are
generally classed, in that order, as the
est m tne English language. The sub-
jects of both were men whose lives had
nothing very dramatic about them,
In one of his essays Hilaire Belloc re-
marked that some of the most per-
manently satisfying books ever written
have been the diaries of clergymen in
quiet country livings, like Woodforde
and Kilvert. Similarly, not a few people
make a practice of reading Jane Austen’s
novels every year, yet never tire of them.
—Dentonio (N.S.W.).
“Wild Life” Passes
It’s sad news that the pictorial nature-
magazine “Wild Life” is to cease pub-
lication. First published 15 years ago and
edited by Phillip Crosbie Morrison, who
spared no effort in making it a success,
it did more to teach Australians to love
and safeguard the flora and fauna of
their country than any other publication.
To schoolteachers it was a most helpful
guide; to all nature-lovers it was invalu-
able.
“Wild Life” was published by Mel-
bourne “Herald,” and some of its best
features will be carried on as a news-
paper page syndicated in weekend issues
of Australian dailies. But that isn’t the
same as a magazine which can be filed
for reference.
Many manufacturing companies put
out a few non-profit lines because there
is a need for them. Some business-houses
provide services which show as a loss
in their balance-sheets, but they continue
to provide them as a favor to their clients.
If all the intangibles could be taken into
account, the goodwill thus created might
show as a solid credit.
Big newspapers, like any other busi-
nesses, have to show a profit. But it
seems a pity to kill off a fine little sub-
sidiary publication like “Wild Life”
merely to take a comparatively small loss
out of the annual balance-sheet. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Price-control
The announcement that Westralia has
beaten the price-spiral is particularly
interesting, because the big State threw
price-control overboard at the begin-
ning of the year. It’s more than likely
that even greater stability will follow.
Under price-control in N. S. Wales
prices are kept at high levels and com-
petition is almost eliminated. An exam-
ination of controlled lines proves that.
Boot-repairs, for instance, are priced well
above costs, as any honest cobbler will
admit. At the same time price-control
has had the effect of bringing trades-
people and others into close-knit associa-
tion for the purpose of determining just
how much the public will pay if all hands
stick together and maintain a uniform
price-level.
It will be a long job to rid commerce
of the pernicious effects of price-control,
but the answer lies in keen competition
rather than a concerted effort to price
goods and services at what the public
can afford, irrespective of value.—
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).


Molly Shay's
Favourite
by DAVID ROWBOTHAM
THE cluster of box-like rusty-
roofed houses, with the new
tent-locality beside the
railway-line, clung tenaci-
ously to the hillside. Above the
houses rose the council-quarry
where, each week, a few days’
employment was doled out to the
men of the community.
Many of the women went out
housekeeping or washing in the
well-to-do homes on the west
side of town. Mrs. Leggert was
one of these, and her income
helped keep Peter in school-
books and clothes. Peter trudged
a mile and a half down the red
road to school, and during holi-
days followed the evangelists as
they slowly drove their van at
midday to the quarry to broad-
cast to the men eating their
lunches beside their picks and
shovels.
The times were hard. Old
Barney the pensioner drank and
starved and chopped wood at
night in the hut in the hollow,
and big clothing stores had to
accept cash-order coupons ; Mrs.
Leggert virtually clothed her
family with cash orders. Street
musicians were plentiful.
Swaggies frequently passed
through town. Mr. Christy wore
socks with no feet in them that
fell like spats over his shoes ;
and down along the railway-line
the rows of tents flowered
indelicately.
Peter moved through the days
small and bareheaded, bouncing
his schoolbag against his hip. He
wore holes in his cheap, strongly-
seamed thin pants and ill-
treated his secondhand coat, and
one afternoon, while chasing old
Molly Shay’s sulky, burst his
sandshoes.
Molly Shay lived alone in the
large many - windowed two-
storied house on Range Hill,
overlooking on the one side the
town, with its quarry folk near
at hand, and on the other side the
sloping beauty of the country
that rose from the distant sea.
The hill belonged to her, and
Peter often trespassed on it, in
spite of surly Tom Sloane, the
keeper; for Molly’s blackberry
bushes were huge and rich and
kept Mrs. Leggert in jams and
pies for the whole season.
Peter and the other boys of
the district, aided by the chance
gossipy remarks of their elders,
had built up around Molly a
fantasy and many legends. She
was mad, stamped with tragedy,
or evil, had cellars in her house,
and through her fabulous tele-
scope, which no one had seen, on
the high flat roof, she could not
only gaze across the miles of
mountains, valleys and farms to
the ships at sea, but, she could
watch everyone in the community
below her.
npHERE was no doubt, too,
that she had Tom Sloane
in thrall. Peter had accompanied
his mother the day she called on
Mrs. Leeson, who lived in one of
the tents, and had heard Mrs,
Leeson and his mother talking
about the old woman on the hill
and her tall strong slightly-
stooped keeper who always wore
a speckled tweed cap and always
ominously stroked his hand along
his ginger-grey moustache when
he sighted a boy among the
blackberry bushes.
“They were regular playmates
one time, you know,” Peter heard
his mother say.
“So I believe,” said Mrs.
Leeson, who, being a tent-
dweller, had not lived in the
district so long as Mrs. Leggert
had. “But they’re not so pally
now, are they?”
“Well, if you ask me, he’s not,”
said Mrs. Leggert, “but he’s play-
ing his cards well, and I bet she
still thinks enough of him to
leave him a fair bit when she
dies. She’s got about fifteen years
on him, you know. When Shay
died, she went into proper hiding
up there, with him.” Mrs.
Leggert jerked her head as if she
were indicating another person
past her shoulder.
“What shame,” said Mrs.
Leeson.
“She was still a fine-looking
wo m a n,” continued Mrs.
Leggert, “and you should’ve seen
Tom Sloane those days—a big
husky red-headed handsome
fellow. Made some girls’ hearts
leap to look at him, but none of
them stood any chance against
her.” Mrs. Leggert again jerked
her head, and added as an after-
thought, “He wasn’t in the same
class, of course. He was keeper
there a time before Shay died,
and,” concluded Mrs. Leggert
with a touch of vehemence, “if
you ask me, he’ll always be a
keeper, the grumpy old wretch
he’s turned into. He’s always
chasing the kids off the property.”
“Wants her and her money all
to himself, X suppose,” said Mrs.
Leeson.
Peter could not fully compre-
hend the adult talk, but he
gathered that Molly was an
uncommon kind of person, and
one to beware of. The know-
ledge added to his awe of the
old woman and heightened the
thrill he derived from stealing
her berries and following noisily
with his classmates at a safe
distance behind her lazy sulky
when, on Thursday afternoons,
just as school got out, she
returned from town along the
stony road called Dent-street to
her haunt on the hill.
He made a sledge and rode
It down the slope of Range Hill
on Sunday afternoons, and
picked mushrooms in the summer
after rain until Tom discovered
him and ordered him in a
resounding shout to get off the
property, which he did as quickly
as his legs could carry him.
After these dismissals, he
usually sought out a friend and
went to the quarry to play. The
giant hole would then echo with
boyish shouts as it was given a
make-belief character that
obscured for a while its habitual
atmosphere and the noise and
activity of depressed men by
which it socially dominated the
town.
AN unshapely road, used
mainly by the council lorries,
passed right through the quarry,
and late one Sunday afternoon
Molly’s lazy sulky raised casual
eddies of dust as it jogged up the
gravelled incline.
The old woman saw a small
boy lying face upwards on the
quarry floor at the bottom of a
cliff from whose top a rope
dangled, swinging as if it had
only recently held a weight and
then let it fall. Standing above
the boy on the ground was
another boy whimpering and
trying to rouse his friend with
scared plucks at the still
shoulders.
Molly stopped her sulky and
climbed down. As soon as the
whimpering boy saw who the
newcomer was, he backed away
with a startled cry and turned
round and ran swiftly down the
quarry road out of sight. Molly
did not try to call him back but
bent intently over the prostrate
boy and inspected him. She saw
that he was unconscious and with
unexpected strength lifted him
in her arms and staggered with
him to the sulky.
Breathless she arranged him
cosily on the sulky floor, among
a rug and some wattle blooms,
and climbed back into the seat.
With her long voluminous skirt
almost entirely hiding the small
body, she flicked the reins, and
the horse started in an easy canter
up the quarry road towards
Range Hill.
Peter opened his eyes and shut
them again quickly, hoping that
the unaccountable surroundings
would go away and be replaced
by those he knew, such as the
ribbed walls of the quarry, or the
half-light of his bedroom with its
chest-of-drawers and the square
mirror. But the big double-
windows with the dark green
curtains were still there when he
ventured a second look, and his
heart beat more quickly the less
vague his vision became.
Cautiously moving his head on
the pillow and keeping his body
rigid in case his wakefulness
might be seen by some unfriendly
spirit, he took an inventory,
blurred by premonitions, of the
unfamiliar things around him.
In the corner near the double
windows was an organ no bigger
than his desk at school, and a
table stood against the wall, '
beneath a picture of a man wear-
ing a beard. Chairs were
arranged around the room, and
there was a cabinet containing
glassware by the door. Below
it a lifelike carved wooden dog
seemed to have just stopped mov-
ing its tail. The animal held
Peter’s gaze as if it had been set
there especially to watch him.
When he realised it was a
dummy, he relaxed with a sigh
heavily into his pillow and stared
straight upwards at the ceiling.
The ceiling was high, and from
its centre a crystal chandelier
hung low, giving an effect of
intimacy to the spacious room.
Peter was not certain that he
liked the intimacy. His imagina-
tion and all his instincts
prompted him to get up from the
divan where he was stretched out,
and try to escape; but he did
not move. He felt too weary and
his head hurt.
“Well, young man, that was a
nasty accident; but we’ll soon
have you happy again.”
The voice was quiet and
musical and almost roguish.
Peter levered himself up quickly
on the divan and searched
frantically for the person who
had spoken. As soon as lie saw
Molly he expelled all his breath
in a distressful hiss. Molly!
Molly in a long black dress with
a line of white buttons down it!
Her hair, almost as white as the
buttons, gleamed in the dusk
light from the windows, and the
wrinkles in her face were more
deeply engraved by a smile. She
carried a tray with a bottle of
soft-drink and a plate of biscuits
and a glass on it, and her hands
were bony and a dry parchment
color.
“Now, now, young man.
You’re not feeling too well. As
soon as we give you a rest and
a drink and some gingerbread
and find out your name and
where you live, we’ll take you
right back home and put you to
bed, and tomorrow you’ll be as
fresh and twice as bright as a
daisy. You’ve had an unlucky
fall. You’ll have to be more
careful. Someday I’ll teach
you how to hold on to a rope
properly. It’s easy when you
know how. That’s it. Lean
back. My, don’t you look a
picture of trust! You couldn’t
look more uncomfortable if I’d
caught you picking my black-
berries.”
"DETER groaned, and Molly,
- 1 more seriously, and with a
plainer kindness in her tone, said
“Here, now. Here’s a glass of
lemonade. It’s still fizzing. When
you get well you can have all
the blackberries you want. On
one condition though, young
man. You’ve got to give me
some, too.”
Peter sniffed miserably and
warily over the glass of soft-
drink, Tears began to cloud his
eyes, but he held them back and
tried to seek comfort in the
remote hope that the drink might
really be lemonade after all.
Intrepidly he took a sip. At this
small unwilling sign of acquies-
cence, Molly sat down beside
him and very carefully cooled
him with a faded fan she drew,
without any suggestion of
violence, from a large pocket in
her dress.
“There you are. It’s nice, isn’t
it?”
Peter nodded briefly, still
dismal, and not wishing to be
too committal. But he was gain-
ing confidence and he was begin-
ning to think. About the black-
berries, for instance. An open
invitation to pick Molly’s black-
berries was something he could
appreciate, and there was a great
deal of commonsense in Molly’s
request that she should receive
some of the proceeds of the pick-
ings. An old woman who could
make a bargain like that could
not be altogether mad, or bad.
Then there was her offer to show
him how to climb up a rope some
time. His eyes glanced again
towards the wooden dog, and ne
salvaged the wreck of a smile
from the depths of his doubts and
fears as he saw the trailing image
of Molly in her long black dress
and buttons trying to teach him
how to climb up a rope.
Molly glimpsed the outline on
his lips and seized at it. “Aha!
So you like my dog? So do I.
He never barks, he never bites,
and he’s very faithful and good
company.”
“No.”
“No?”
“I mean, I mean, I like your
dog, but”
“But what?”
“Can you really climb a
rope?”
“To be quite truthful, young
man, I have never climbed up a
rope in my life, but I think 1
could give you some advice.
Don’t you?”
“No,” said Peter, with con-
viction.
“Oh! You don’t?”
“No.”
Molly chuckled —a pleasant
crystalline tinkle of merriment,
much as if the chandelier had
stirred in a slender remission of
wind. She folded the fan with a
gay snap and poked it with a
crisp informality back into her
pocket. Peter’s smile expanded.
“Finish your drink,” said
Molly, still chuckling. “And
have a gingerbread.”
“Can I?” began Peter.
“Of course, of course. Have
as many as you wish.”
“Can I pick your black-
berries?”
“Why, yes. If you remember
to give me some, too.”
“Oh, I will!”
“Then it’s settled. Now what’s
your name?”
“Peter.”
“Is that all?”
“Peter Leggert.”
“Then, Peter Leggert, we’ll
have to take you home.”
TIE had temporarily forgotten
about home. He had even
forgotten to bother about why he
happened to be sitting in one of
the rooms of Molly’s two-storied
house. His head did not seem to
hurt any more and his heart was
beating quite normally again. He
was not even sure now that he
wanted to go home.
It was becoming obvious to
him that this old woman under-
stood boys better than their own
mothers did. He knew that the
justice he would get at home
would be considerably less
charitable than Molly’s. His
mother would show her relief
and gratitude at having him home
again by the customary use of
his father’s razor-strop. His
face became helplessly solemn
at the thought.
“Is anything the matter?”
asked Molly.
“Mum’s going to beat the day-
lights out of me,” he explained
unhappily.
“We’ll see she doesn’t this
time,” said Molly. And to
Peter’s wonder and growing
devotion, she did see.
They met Mr. and Mrs.
Leggert, who had been told of
Peter’s capture by Peter’s play-
mate, hurrying up Dent-street to
the rescue. Molly drove them
all home.
TF the hard times of the quarry
•*- community had previously
affected the tenor of Peter’s daily
life in any way, such was no
longer the case after the begin-
ning of his friendship with
(i Continued on page 341
ACCEPTED TIME
This is the day: tomorrow
For joy may be too late,
And yesterday held sorrow.
This is the hour comes after
Morning and cloud, with night,
Whether for tears or laughter,
Unthought of, out of sight.
Now is the time for action,
And while you hesitate.
Debating satisfaction,
The magic moment goes.
Now, with the sun attaining
The limit of its height,
Now while the noon is bright
Cry truce upon complaining,
Pluck your elected rose.
This is the hour of fate.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
GARFISH
Creatures that live in a wave*
glass-housed.
Luxury-living garfish, yellow-
lipped
And pretty as flat-women. Slim
hipped,
Bubble - sipping surface - livers;
espoused
By the sun. Garfish that are not
fish,
But meteors, in the eyes of the
stargazer;
Star-dripping meteors that the
dozer
On the mud bottom would trap in
a wish.
Sinker-sodden stargazer, sick and
sorry fish:
While the flappers are stories up,
gars
In the planetarium drinking bub-
bling spas;
Off-this-planet plankton, trifling,
for a dish;
And catching a breaker, now and
then,
Like a late tram crammed with
white-shirted men.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health . Guaranteed*
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
w
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
"• 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
■ i " DISTRIBUTORS ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS * Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place. , _
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
J.A.P. ENGINES
& O
2/S model, 1 i H.p. 4 stroke
air- cooled, £39/17/6.
4/3 model, 2-3 h.p. 4 stroke
air- cooled, £75.
J.A.P. spares stocked.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Mlssenden Bead, Newtown,
SYDNEY. DA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ŵw
. . .BCT HE
WEARS A
neo-
ba rre RE
No Pads—
f No Springs
The NEO-BABE SBl
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
to all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful y
all who have tried it.
Merits today for FREE LITERATURE
bakbebb distribution CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St.. Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Breeding-ewes
“Billjim”: After shearing,
ewes should be allowed to
harden-off in condition and
then brought to good feed a
fortnight before mating begins.
Pregnant ewes should be given
special attention during the last
six or seven weeks of gestation.
Extra feed during this period
means vigorous lambs on strong
ewes with a good milk-supply.
Give ewes and lambs particu-
lar attention at the break of the
season when cold, wet condi-
tions prevail and there is little
new growth of herbage.
Lucerne is one of the best
supplementary feeds, as it is
rich in protein, lime and vita-
mins. Silage has vitamins and is
palatable and laxative. The
ration is 21b. to 31b. a head a
day. If baled meadow-hay is
used it must be of good quality,
and fed at 31b. to 41b. a head a
day. The rate for oaten-hay is
up to 11b. a head a day; for
grains (oats, wheat, barley) 4oz.
to soz. a head a day when some
roughage is still available. On
grain start them off about
each a day and gradually work
it up.
i ■■■—■
New Zealand Success
“Kiwi”: In 1947 G. Pirn
took over 609 acres of poor pas-
tures at Pongaroa, south-east of
Dannevirke (N.ZO- The cover
was mainly brown-top grass and
scrub, with rushes in the hol-
lows. Stock comprised 750
poor ewes and 78 cattle.
About 65 per cent, of the area
can be disked, the remainder is
steep hill country where main
improvement practices are over-
sowing and topdressing. The
workable area was cleared with
mechanical equipment and the
land broken-up with a heavy
disk. Then the clods were
broken-up and the hollows
filled-in with a half-ton leveller.
This was done in June, 1951.
In the following December
25 acres were sown to chou-
moellier for winter-feed. Two
other paddocks (110 acres) lay
in fallow until April, 1952. Then
they were disked, harrowed and
sown with a mixture of certi-
fied rye-grass-clover pasture at
the rate of 441 b. of seed, 3cwt.
of super, and a ton of lime per
acre.
These two paddocks now
carry four ewes per acre against
three ewes per acre in the best
of the other paddocks.
By June, 1953, two-thirds of
the farm had been oversown with
21b. of white-clover and 21b. of
sub.-clover per acre. Since
1948 most of the paddocks have
received at least Bcwt. of super,
per acre. Very wet weather in
the late summer and autumn of
1952-53 delayed for a year the
sowing of another 50 acres to
grass. Ten dams now supply
the stock with water, and more
will be built as stock-numbers
increase.
In 1947 carrying-capacity of
the property was 1,7 ewes yield-
ing 171 b. of wool per acre. By
1952 it had risen to 3.1 ewes
yielding 24.21 b. of wool.
Sowing of another 90 acres
to pastures in autumn of 1955
will bring the total area of sown
pastures to 146 acres. The
farm’s carrying-capacity will
then have reached 3j to four
ewes per acre.
Sugar and Soil
“Condo”; Queensland sugar-
technologists have shown that
waste molasses is a good and
cheap soil-conditioner.
This has been demonstrated in
America, where several theories
have been advanced to explain
the beneficial effect. One of
the most feasible is that pro-
duction of antibiotics is stimu-
lated in the soil from the
increased growth of moulds
which thrive on the sugar.
Whatever the explanation, the
important thing is that in-
creased growth of sugar-cane
and other crops is obtained
when the roots and stools of
cane are left in the field instead
of being burnt.
Grasses don’t contain as
much sugar as cane, but suffi-
cient to exert a similar bene-
ficial influence on the soil if
allowed to dry-off and grow
again season after season for
years.
Arsenic Harms Bananas
“Agric.”: Investigation has
shown that arsenic released from
mispickel ( Arsenopyrite ) was
responsible for stunted growth
in a Queensland south-coast
banana plantation. Leaves from
an affected plant at first sug-
gested that manganese poisoning
was responsible; analysis
showed no manganese in the
leaves, hut arsenic was found,
and it was thought this had got
into the soil as the result of
spraying with pentoxide.
Then it was found the land
had never been sprayed. Further
soil-tests from a rocky outcrop
were examined, and the mis-
pickel was found to be the
cause.
The arsenic in mispickel
accumulates in the soil in sol-
uble form where the veins of
the mineral come close to the
surface. It affects the health of
the banana-plants but does not
accumulate in the stunted fruit,
and if dairymen feed chopped
banana-stools to cows the
amount of arsenic present in
both plants and stunted fruit is
far too small to constitute a
risk.
Humpyback
“Outback”: A sheep fed on
Solanum esuriale (commonly
known as wild-potato) and
exercised on a treadmill in an
artificially hot, humid environ-
ment at the Queensland Uni-
versity, developed humpyback
symptoms. The sheep was fed
211 b. of the plant in 34 days.
In five outbreaks studied in
the field the disease occurred
between six and 10 weeks after
2in. or more rain. Wild-
potato is a perennial generally
about 6in. high, but occasionally
grows to 9in or 12in. It has
purple flowers and round berry-
like fruits, yellow when ripe.
It is stated that research into
the humpyback disease is con-
tinuing. Which is just as well,
since it seems that any sheep
forced to exercise on a tread-
mill for 34 days would get
humpyback, no matter what it
was fed.
“This paintin' always gives me a thirst."
Bean-fly
“L.C”: Infestations of bean-
fly will continue to the end of
April on the N.S.W. Central
Coast and till the end of May
on the North Coast. Yellowing
of beans means the larvae are
attacking the inner tissues.
Use a spray of 2 fl. oz. of
D.D.T. emulsion (20 per cent.)
in 2igal. of water or 1 fl. oz.
of nicotine-sulphate and
fl. oz. of white-oil emulsion in
4gal. of water.
Sowings made from January
to mid-March need six to eight
sprayings before blossoming;
sowings in the last weeks of
March need four to six appli-
cations, while those made in
April need two to four. Upper
surfaces only of the leaves
should be sprayed. Forty gal-
lons of mixture to the acre is
sufficient.
Weeds in Pastures
“Grassdale”: Pasture-improve-
ment in any locality depends
largely on good soil-fertility and
maintenance, and when you get
things that way the dashed weeds
begin to thrive. Strong weeds—
thistles, marshmallows, mustard
and Cape-weed—grow to the
exclusion of the wanted pasture-
species.
The only sound way to beat
weeds is to reduce soil-fertility
by ploughing and cropping; or
by sowing a pasture seed-mixture
on the upturned poorer soil. Pro-
vided a strong growth of peren-
nial grasses can be encouraged
and maintained, weed-seedlings
then have little chance of
becoming established.
Annual weeds require patches
of bare soil to germinate during
autumn ; suitable conditions for
this are provided by stock camps,
by pastures which have been
heavily stocked during the early
autumn, or by the bare patches
caused by cattle-droppings.
In moderate-rainfall districts
(30in. to 40in.) night-paddocks
usually receive more cattle-
droppings than are good for
pasture - composition. Result,
after several years, invasion by
annual weeds and grasses. Con-
versely, the remaining pasture-
paddocks, deprived of the drop-
pings wasted in the night-
paddocks, often show signs of
potash- and nitrogen-deficiency.
That is obviously bad manage-
ment. The remedy is to rotate
the night-paddocks in regular
succession and give frequent
grass harrowings.
There are several causes of
declining soil-fertility: (a) too
frequent cutting of the pasture
for grass-hay ; ( b ) top-dressings
too light or infrequent; (c) the
non-return of dung or urine to
the pasture through irregularities
in grazing. Any of these will
bring about impoverished pas-
tures, the winter color in parti-
cular being very bad. On such
land the clover dies out, rank
growth marks the site of all drop-
pings, the remainder being taken
over by grasses such as bent
grass, couch, sweet vernal, York-
shire fog-grass and hair-grass.
White Cedar
“Mackay”: White cedar is one
of the best trees for planting in
sheep- and poultry-yards. Well-
developed specimens provide
dense shade, and, being
deciduous, they let in the winter
sunlight and give the yards a
chance to dry.
Records show that the yellow
berries of the trees, though
poisonous to pigs, rarely affect
poultry or sheep.
In the stockyards at Wagga
(N.S.W.) and on V. J. Byrnes’s
property at Manilla (N.S.W.)
white cedars form a canopy of
shade and beauty in spring and
summer.
The tree has been planted
along hundreds of streets in
Riverina towns. White cedar is
a quick-growing species and to
no small extent is drought-
resistant. It is valuable for plant-
ing on the coast, slopes or better
parts of the plains. Seedlings
which spring up beneath the
parent trees grow readily when
transplanted to other parts.
Watered regularly till well estab-
lished, they will make rapid
growth. Give them also the pro-
tection of guards and tie them
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where's
the B.W.T.C. ?’’ is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
Come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
aU States.
VITAMIN ‘A’
CAN BE GIVEN EASILY TO SHEEP IN
CORRECT DOSES BY DRENCHING WITH -
The findings of the above experiment clearly show that adequate
vitamin A supply is essential for lambs and weaners if high losses are
to be avoided. Vitamin A also greatly influences lambing percentages,
fertility in rams and the health of new-born lambs when breeding
ewes have suffered prolonged deficiency. The natural source of
vitamin A is green feed and if always available in abundance there
would be no fear of vitamin A deficiency. But dry pastures, so
prevalent in Australia, have little or no vitamin A value and a
deficiency of this vitamin then occurs with serious results. The value
of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ to sheep owners during dry feed
periods can be readily appreciated—High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’
supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the best pastures.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral
House or usual station supplier. Write for brochure ( B )
for full information.
HIGH POTENCY
‘VETEMUL’ is Australia’s original veterinary emulsion supplying
vitamin A and is used by the largest commercial poultry farmers and
livestock owners. ‘VETEMUL’ has now been introduced in high
potency form specially designed for use by sheep owners. Because
it is so highly concentrated, each dose of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’
supplies total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. The need for
only periodical instead of frequent dosing and the fact that it may be
given easily by drench makes High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ a most
convenient form of vitamin A dosing. One gallon of High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only l/3d. each for sheep
and lOd. each for lambs.
WARRANTY ; High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is sold with a warranty
that vitamin potencies are as stated on the label.
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., Agricultural and Veterinary Division, 37 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria
loosely to strong stakes to induce
an upright habit of growth. Bees
work the blossom freely.
Erosion Factor
“Clunesman”: “Gui” (B.
27 1 1 / ’54) hit the nail on the head
when he said stock soon eat out
the country around a water-
supply to the extent that it will
never recuperate and the soil will
blow away.
Statistics by U.S. Department
of Agriculture, equally applic-
able here, show that where water-
ing facilities are seven to 11 miles
apart on unfenced range-country
the greater part of vegetation
within a mile radius is killed. A
survey of the two-mile limit
shows about 50 per cent., with a
large proportion of poor forage
plants, and the next two miles
support 73£ per cent, of the
natural grasses. Over four miles
away the grazing is practically
normal.
As annual run-off from all
rivers and streams in Australia
is only two million acre feet,
compared to double this amount
from the Mississippi and 14 times
more for the Amazon, the need
to capture the run-off from our
own streams and use it to the best
advantage is obvious.
Tractor Danger
“J.A.C.”: Further to “Brook-
field’s” comments (B. 20/1/’54)
on tractor accidents, there has
been an alarming increase during
the past three years in Victoria.
Main causes are carelessness of
operators, poor weight-distribu-
tion in tractor by maker, faulty
design of drawbars and (perhaps
the most important) wrong
design of transmission.
Some test of a tractor’s balance
under stress ought to be as com-
pulsory as the N.S.W, road-
worthiness test of cars and trucks.
Maybe chassis-weights fitted to
the front of the tractor would
stop rearing.
Dog’s Health
“H.C.”: When a dog’s tongue
is pink all over health is normal;
when it is deep red he is in a
fever or may be sickening for
distemper or pneumonia.
A furry tongue means stomach
trouble, gastritis (possibly due to
worms), liver disorder or indiges-
tion. A dry tongue may mean
heart, kidney or stomach weak-
ness. If, at the same time, the
dog suffers from diarrhoea,
general sickness or difficult
breathing, he is in a bad way
generally and it is advisable to
see a vet.
Constipation is sometimes
responsible for sickness. Bullock-
liver, boiled till tender, and given
twice a week, helps cure this con-
dition. A sprinkling of bran
mixed in with the food or of
glauber-type salts in the drink-
ing water also helps. Olive-oil in
small doses with food is a good
laxative and also a nutrient.
Unless absolutely necessary steer
clear of aperients. An enema of
warm water mixed with a little
castor-oil often removes obstruc-
tions.
Grow Tan-bark
“Sundowner” : Choice of tan-
bark trees as shelter-breaks can
provide additional income.
Wattles are not the only trees
which will provide tanning-
bark. For some years a tannin-
extract industry has operated
in West Australia utilising the
bark and wood of two varieties
of eucalypt known as wandoos.
C.5.1.R.0. is now investigat-
ing the kinos, or gums, of euca-
lypts for the production of
tannin, and farmers can help
by growing suitable trees.
Particularly suitable for a
shelter-belt is the brown mallet,
from W.A., which grows well in
12in. to 25in. rainfall areas, A
tree at 17 years old attains a
height of 45ft. and will yield up
to 801 b. of dry bark. Planted
at 300 trees to the acre (16ft.
apart) a yield of 11 tons of dry
bark per acre should be obtained
after 17 years’ growth.
Mallet produces an excellent
timber, exceptionally strong and
shock-resistant. However, as
mallet lacks lower branches its
effectiveness as a wind-break
lessens as it grows. As wattle
will not grow as a lower storey
among eucalypts, the best
alternative is to plant the mallets
about 6ft apart and thin out the
plot after seven years.
As the mallet seeds freely, if
every alternate 30 to 35 yards
are cut out every 20 years, the
shelter-belt will renew itself,
thus providing continuous pro-
tection.
Method employed in Wes-
tralia is to fell the scrub, burn it
off in March and a few days
later drop a pinch of seed in
small areas 12in. in diameter at
6ft. intervals. Bark of grown
trees is stripped in June to
October.
Wattles have a denser growth
than mallet and need wetter
conditions. Black and golden
varieties are the only ones satis-
factory for tanning purposes. A
black wattle-tree will yield 301 b.
to 401 b. of dry bark containing
35 per cent, tannin, or about
five tons of dry bark per acre
after nine years. The golden-
wattle bark contains 35 per
cent, tannin and will strip two
tons of bark per acre after 12
years.
Hints For the Farm
“Citrona”: Lemons of de-
formed teat-shape have puzzled
citrus-growers and experts from
time immemorial. Investigations
have now shown that the mal-
formations are caused by bud-
mites, and that some of the
newer acaricides stop it.
“Nicot”: Hail - damaged
tobacco which may appear a
total loss should not be written
off. Some yield can still be
obtained by clearing away the
broken portion of the stalks and
allowing only one sucker to
develop.
“Breck”: Cattle-pumpkin on
its own is no good for milking-
cows because it is short of
protein. The ration should be
the equivalent of 101 b. of lucerne-
chaff, lib. of linseed or cotton-
meal and 61b. of commeal with
301 b. of pumpkin a day.
“Sundowner”; Household
scraps can cause sickness and
death to poultry. To be on the
safe side put all meal-leavings in
a special container, boil at night
and add to the birds’ mash in
the morning.
“C.A.A.”: To control insect-
pests on lawns heavy doses of
insecticide are necessary. Best
is D.D.T. With a 20 per cent,
emulsion mix Igal. with 200 gal.
of water, or 21b. of the 50 per
cent, dispersible powder in
lOOgal. water. Apply either
mixture at a gallon to the square
yard from a watering-can.
“Konanda”: Dianthus grow
freely in the heat in poor sandy
soil. A good mulch of leaf-
mould, or even more sand, will
ensure the rooting from the
nodes. When the first of the cool
weather comes they can be
planted out. They bloom
through summer,
“Sandilands”: Autumn is the
time for planting silver-beet.
Fordhook Giant is one of the
best and quickest growers of
the beets, and makes excellent
green-feed for poultry. Lucullus
for your table.
“Citro”: Experiments by
C.5.1.R.0. prove that > washing
of oranges with sodium ortho-
phenyl phenate, with hexamine
added to prevent chemical in-
jury, lessens decay of fruit in
storage. Additional washing in
a borax-solution and packing in
boxes lined with di-phenyl-
impregnated paper reduces
decay still more.
Reprinted from the SYDNEY MORNING HERALD August 21, 1953.
SHEEP LOSS
REDUCED
Vitamin ' A’ Dose
Experiments
By V. G. COLE, B.V.Sc., Grazcos Veterinary Surgeon
The discovery by the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation that sheep dosed with vitamin A have
a better chance of survival during periods of extended drought
is one of the most important in Australia’s pastoral industry.
In the lean years when green grass is unavailable for
months on end the loss of weaners and of lambs at birth or soon
after runs into hundreds of thousands in New South Wales
and over the Commonwealth into millions.
GREEN FEED DEFICIENCY
Graziers generally accept the
huge losses as an unfortunate out-
come of drought and, once a
drought breaks, set about rebuild-
ing their flocks.
But research by the C.5.1.R.0.
has shown that vitamin A admin-
istered as a drench to weaners and
lambing ewes will reduce losses
considerably.
Already widespread interest is
being taken in the drought feeding
work of the C.5.1.R.0. and it is
important that graziers should
appreciate the results are still in
the semi-experimental stage.
But as seasonal conditions are
turning dry in many parts of the
State an explanation of how vita-
min A deficiency occurs will give
a better understanding of when and
how the results of the C.5.1.R.0.
research can be applied.
SAME THING
For a long time, vitamin A
deficiency has been known to occur
among poultry, where the disease
produced is described simply as
due to green feed deficiency.
Vitamin A and green feed de-
ficiency are the same thing.
Under ordinary grazing con-
ditions, green feed is the natural
source of vitamin A but as the
grass dries off so the vitamin A
content declines. Under drought
conditions it falls off altogether.
The C.5.1.R.0. work has shown
that the deficiency can be made
good by giving large doses of
vitamin A, which animals are cap-
able of storing in their livers and
using slowly over a long period.
The experiments mainly con-
cerned ewes in lamb and weaners.
The ewes were fed a ration of cereal
chaff and wheat from mating on-
wards and, in the first year, they
lambed satisfactorily. But when
kept on this diet and mated a
second time most of their lambs
were either born dead or died
within a day or so. Some of the
ewes were given large doses of
vitamin A at intervals and those
which were given this treatment
gave birth to normal lambs, all of
which survived.
FEWER DEATHS
In the case of the weaners the
results were more spectacular.
Some 250 weaners were fed on
cereal chaff and wheat plus lime-
stone. They were divided into two
groups, one of which was given a
single large dose of 500,000 inter-
national units of vitamin A, while
the other group was given no
treatment.
After seven months, 62 of the
untreated weaners had died, com-
pared with 17 of those which
received the vitamin A supplement.
During the last three months of
the trial the results were particu-
larly striking, since only four of
the treated weaners died compared
with 42 of the untreated ones.
The cost of the drench, which is
equal to about 3oz, of vitamin A
emulsion, is about 1/-.
HAY AN ALTERNATIVE
The obvious question is whether
vitamin A deficiency can be over-
come in any other way except by
dosing with vitamin A supplements.
The only foodstuffs, besides
green grass, which are rich sources
of vitamin A are carrots, green
lucerne or clover hay, and yellow
maize. Milk is also a rich source of
vitamin A, but it is hardly likely
to be used for drought feeding.
Thus, if yellow corn and lucerne
hay are fed either together or
separately, vitamin A deficiency
may not occur. In the case of
lucerne hay, whether it occurs or
not will depend to a large extent on
the quantity fed and the quality of
the hay. Poor quality hay contains
little vitamin A.
In drought time, however, sup-
plies of lucerne hay and com are
never adequate, and the main
foodstuffs used are wheat, oats,
barley, grain sorghum, and cereal
hay, all of which are very vitamin A
deficient.
Putting considerations of
drought feeding aside for a moment
it might be well to explain that
vitamin A deficiency also occurs
whenever dry feed conditions pre-
vail and often when stud animals
are being hand-fed, but the symp-
toms produced are not significant
enough to bring them before the
notice of livestock breeders.
For example, it was proved
several years ago that the fertility
of rams is lowered when seasonal
conditions are dry and that cattle
become shy breeders, leading to
infertility among herds.
Use of vitamin A supplements
under these conditions has a
definite place in the future.
Other so-called sub-clinical
effects of vitamin A deficiency are
swelling of the brisket of cattle
which are being fattened by hand-
feeding, as well as scours, pneu-
monia, and blindness among calves.
The eyesight of racehorses will
be affected if they are fed for long
on vitamin A deficient rations, as
they frequently are, but, most
important of all, their hooves
show uneven and poor growth of
hom.
These effects of vitamin A de-
ficiency are comparatively un-
important, however, because it is
simple enough to correct them
either by making sure that the diet
contains foodstuffs rich in vitamin
A, such as lucerne hay, or by
dosing at intervals with vitamin A
supplements. The cost of doing
this is unimportant.
WISE DOSING
This is not so in drought time.
First, it is not possible to pick and
choose foodstuffs and, second, the
cost of dosing with vitamin A
supplements could add up to a
substantial amount.
Nevertheless, if present seasonal
conditions continue and a drought
of several months’ duration looms
ahead of us. woolgrowers should
seek advice about dosing ewes in
lamb and weaners with vitamin A
mixtures since the results which
have been obtained indicate that
this will prevent losses of both new-
born lambs and young sheep.
If dosing is carried out wisely it
could be the means of saving many
thousands of lambs and weaners.
Past drought experiences have
shown that these are the most
difficult of all to pull through a
drought and we now know that
this is due, in no small measure,
to vitamin A deficiency.


Do you like an
e independent ’ spirit?
w
Our subject Is whisky. By which, of
course, we mean Scotch whisky. It
Is generally agreed that Scotland
Is the home of good whisky. From
Scotland come all those famous,
world-known whiskies.
To be precise, our subject Is one of
the few remaining independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we want to
tell you about ourselves. We are
Bell's, Independent distillers sines
1825. Perth Is our home town.
Whisky Is our pride. And. man,
what whisky! If you’ve a nose on
you to relish the subtle smokiness
of superlative Scotch whisky; If
you’ve a tongue that can taste the
years of maturing; If your palate
can appreciate the blending of many
dlstllllngs to make a perfect whole
—lf, In a word, whisky Is to you the
heart of the Highlands. Its barley-
fields and peat and moors. Its glens
and tumbling burns—you’re the
very man for Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
KTABUSHSD ISM
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
v f
i rrzm.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson ft Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
wnrxT) OPPICB AND PACTORIffIi
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
While councillors, blown out with tea,
Popp’d into Wyatt’s (stealthily)
And took their nips of eau de vie,
All at the Mayor’s Tea Party,
Hokee Pokee, etc.
The concert o’er, Sir George and
suite,
The Mayor,- and many more retreat,
While ‘Three times three” their exits
greet,
All at the Mayor’s Tea Party.
And when the nobs had gone away,
The fun commenc’d without delay,
For then each lad and lass, so gay,
Did welt the flure ’till break of day.
But mark the sequel of my tale:
Next morning Busby’s bore did fail,
And water riz a brown a pail
All through the Mayor’s Tea Party 1
Hokee Pokee, etc,
♦♦♦ * *
When we learn that merchant
Simeon Cohen sent out his
cigars in wrappers on. which
“The Mayor’s Tea Party” was
printed, we realise that our
ideas of the colonial ballad need
considerable revision. When we
reflect that the ditties in this
article are a mere handful of the
scores that did the rounds in the
two years 1845 and 1847, we
must conclude that the research
scholarships devoted to this pro-
ject will bring to light with the
passing of the years more of the
same kind. And when they’ve
achieved that, we’ll admit the
money has been well spent in
establishing that our colonial
ballads were not all carved on
gumtrees with a stockman’s
knife.
Molly. In the presence of the
old woman with the tinkling
laugh and roguish voice, and in
the story-book atmosphere of
her great house, to which, in
spite of the misgivings of his
mother and father, he soon made
frequent visits, he found excite-
ment, novelty and a momentous
companionship.
He listened enchanted to the
songs she serenely but gaily
played and sang at the small
organ in the corner. He ate
more of her gingerbread and
drank more of her lemonade.
He explored the stairway of the
tall house as far as the roof and
found no telescope, and could
not see the ships he had imagined
always to be out there across the
country that rose from the distant
sea. He peered through the
attic windows. With the delight
of privilege he roamed the rooms
and grounds. He picked black-
berries in hundreds and, after
passing to Molly her part of the
legitimate plunder, carried home,
with shining eyes, billies creak-
ing with their loads.
Even Mr. and Mrs. Leggert
shared his pleasure on these
occasions. But one person did
not —Tom Sloane. Tom never
spoke to Peter. Instead, he
stroked his moustache more
ominously and, whenever he
encountered the boy hurrying up
the path from the blackberry
bushes, ignored him arid strode
off fiercely among the trees, pull-
ing his cap down over his surly
eyes.
“He’s probably frightened the
old girl’s going to put the lad
in her will or something,” said
Mr. Leggert in an aside to his
wife when Peter told them about
the keeper.
“Yes. Jealous, That’s his
trouble,” replied Mrs. Leggert.
“Never you mind him. Just keep
out of his way,” she said to Peter,
and Peter, following her instruc-
tions, avoided the keeper when-
ever he could, both in the
grounds and inside the big house,
where he knew Tom had a room
near the end of the hallway that
led from the cedar door at the
front porch past the room with
the chandelier.
But, for all his caution, he
would, at least once during each
visit, find himself, on rounding
some corner, suddenly con-
fronted by the keeper’s discom-
fiting 'moustache and eyes.
Because Tom seemed as readily
inclined as he was at such
encounters to put as much dis-
tance a.s possible between them,
Peter soon recovered from the
experiences and eagerly went in
search of Molly. In her com-
pany he found an increasing
delight, and her feelings in
return, as everybody came to
realise, were equally warm.
THE boys, for instance, who
had chased Molly home
along Dent-street gave away the
pursuit the day she halted her
sulky and called Peter on board.
When he fearlessly obeyed the
call, they were wide-eyed with
wonder, and when nothing hap-
pened to him they grew dubious,
then respectful, and, at last,
envious.
He became the centre of atten-
tion at school and the talk of the
quarry neighborhood. “There
goes that Leggert boy again. Old
Molly’s favorite, no mistake,”
everybody said; but as the rela-.
tionship between the boy and the
old woman continued, they
gradually let Molly into their
lives, and, although she still pre-
ferred to keep herself bodily
separate, Molly on her part
showed a new and active aware-
ness of them.
She knew that Mr. Christy
wore socks with no feet in them,
and sent him, through Peter as
bearer, two pairs of newly-
knitted ones. They were incon-
tinently large, but Mr. Christy
wore them with tremendous
pride. Tactfully, she supplied to
Mrs. Leggert bundles of old
clothes and remnants that
enabled Mrs. Leggert to forget
all about cash orders. And she
presented Peter with a new pair
of sandshoes to replace the
sorry specimens he had burst
while chasing her sulky,
Peter delivered samples from
her vegetable-garden to the tent
folk near the railway-line, and
took in a trundling barrow to
Barney the pensioner a cargo of
dry timber from her property.
Tie evangelists one day intro-
duced their midday broadcast
at the quarry with a liberal dis-
tribution of mandarins “from
Mrs. Shay’s orchard.” People
now spoke estimably of her, and
Peter somewhere in the region
of his breast-pocket experienced
the honor of her friendship and
came to think of her as his
possession.
He was surprised, then, and
slightly dispirited, when one
afternoon, about a year after his
first meeting with her, he noticed
just as he neared the top of Range
Hill a car standing at the gate
to Molly’s house. He resented its
presence and at the same time
had unpleasant forebodings. The
cool wind blowing over the
summit of the hill from the
valley heights made him shiver
as he lifted the white-brass
knocker of the heavy cedar door
at the front porch.
Molly let him in with a smile,
but the smile and her voice were
strained, and she looked suddenly
very old.
“Just wait here for a while,
and when I come back well
have something to eat,” she said
as she left him alone in the room
with the chandelier,
Peter became tired of idly
poking the carved dog with his
foot, and of looking out of the
double-windows upon the cluster
of houses of the quarry com-
munity below, and walked to the
door and quietly opened it. He
peered into the dim hallway, and
saw that the door to Tom
Sloane’s room was partly opened.
He heard people talking in the
room, and recognised Molly's
voice, but the other voice, he
knew, did not belong to Tom
Sloane.
He realised abruptly that he
had not seen Tom for several
visits now, and with this unusual
fact the forebodings that he had
had when he noticed the car at
Molly’s gate seemed somehow
related. The second voice had
almost a harsh sound compared
to the soft musical sound of
Molly’s, and all at once he began
to feeT he had heard its half-
authoritative, half-sympathetic
tone before. When at last he saw
the speaker come out of the room
with Molly, he hurriedly stepped
back into the big room.
The doctor! Someone was
sick. Tom Sloane was sick!
Peter was frightened. Sickness
among grown-up people always
frightened him. It was not that
he did know what sickness was.
He had been sick himself with
measles and, although he could
not remember the worst part,
with pneumonia. But it was not
the same when grown-up people
were sick. They seemed to
change altogether. They looked
helpless, defeated and very
strange. They did not talk as
they normally did, and they did
not talk so much. They just
lay there, subdued and small, as
his grandfather did before he
died. They were not like grown-
up people at all.
Molly returned and saw that
Peter had guessed. the news.
“Yes. Mr. Sloane is sick,” she
said. The serenity and gaiety in
her that Peter had known for so
long seemed entirely to have
gone, and his fear gained the
puzzlement of sadness.
“You must not go near that
room,” said Molly. ? !
Peter gave a tremulous promise
in which there was much thank-
fulness. Molly saw his relief
and smiled, “And what would
you like to eat?” she said.
PETER went back to the house
on Range Hill the following
weekend only because he hoped
that Tom would be well by then.
But Tom was not'well.
The door to the keeper’s room
was wide open this time, and the
sick man called out to Peter as
the boy was scurrying past, with
a curious and fearful glance to-
wards the sick-room, in search
of Molly.
“Come ’ere, son,” said Tom in
a loud forceful wheezing
whisper. It was the first time
since Peter had begun visiting
Molly that Tom Sloane had
spoken to him. The command,
ridiculously and painfully unlike
the shouts with which the keeper
had ordered him off the property
in the old days, petrified him.
He stopped dead and turned a
whitened face fully in the direc-
tion of the man lying in the large
bed.
Sickness had changed the
keeper, as if changed all grown-
up people, but it had changed
him differently. He was propped
up on the bed and looked bigger
than ever. His face was flushed,
and the flush was accentuated by
the untidy white bedclothes and
the white pillows rumpled around
him, and by the extraordinary
pallor of his head, which was
completely bald. Peter had never
before seen Tom without his
tweed cap on, and the sight
embarrassed him.
The keeper’s moustache
seemed all grey now. His eyes
were over-bright, as if they
would exhaust themselves and
go blank at the slightest disturb-
ance or footfall, and in them was
an anger uncommon to a sick-
room. He appeared huge and
incongruously strong in his
struggle to sit upright. He re-
sembled a man who had been
cheated and to whom the know-
ledge of the injustice had given
a foreign power, which he now
directed at the boy standing in
the doorway.
“Come ’ere,” the sick man re-
peated in the loud, wheezing
whisper. “Come ’ere, son.”
Peter, as if involuntarily
drawn, advanced a few steps
into the room and then stood
still. Tom fixed the boy with
his angry bright eyes.
“She’s bad, son. She’s bad.
She’lTdo you in, just like me.”
The wheeze jarred Peter like a
shock 1
“Huh—who?” Peter hardly
knew he had spoken.
“Her. Who, who d’you
think!” The strength of the
voice was receding, with the
sick man, into the pillows.
“Molly. Mrs. Shay. That’s
who,” replied the voice, going
dull and emotionless.' Its altera-
tion and unpredictability made
Peter tremble, and he began to
turn away. The keeper noticed
the movement and, rising again
from the pillows, glared at the
frightened boy. “I’m finished,
son, and she did it. Her.”
Peter shouted, and at the end
of the shout he cried continu-
ously “No. No. No. No,” in
a frenzied denial and appeal.
He rushed from the room and
down the hallway towards the
front door and bumped into
Molly. He recoiled from her
with a scream.
“Peter! Peter! What’s
wrong?” Molly exclaimed in a
shaking voice.
Peter kept on screaming, and
stumbled blindly to the cedar
door, opened it and fled along
the path, out of the gate and
helter-skelter down Range
Hill. He never went back
again.
■■ . i jn-.y i-; ;< ’■ ’ T ■
'THE story he . told his mother
and father when he became
coherent through his exhaustion
and tears eventually spread to
all the homes in the quarry
community. People daily looked
in bewilderment, which by de-
grees turned to an old distrust,
up towards the big house, and
when, finally, they saw the
hearse descending the hill they
considered that they had made
a mistake in letting Molly into
their lives. Even the wiser ones
who said “He poisoned the lad’s
mind. He didn’t want anyone
else to have her money if he
couldn’t” —even they felt un-
easy. They were not sure.
Peter moved through the days
small and bareheaded and like
one who has not been able to
absorb and understand all he
has heard and seen.. And on the
Thursday afternoon when, some
time after Tom Sloane had died,
Molly and her sulky reappeared
on the stony road called Dent-
street, Peter, trudging home
from school with his classmates,
felt his heart grow large and un-
settled inside him as he saw
her. She overtook the small
silent group, who stopped and
stared as she went by, and a
little way in front of them,
halted the sulky and turned
round in her seat.
“Peter,” she called quietly.
“Peter.”
Peter looked down at the road
and tightly gripped the strap of
his schoolbag resting against his
hip. He did not speak.
“Peter.”
After a few minutes, during
which the boys breathed audibly,
their hearts thumping, Molly
turned slowly round again in her
seat. She flicked the reins and
the sulky grated on along the
road.
AT the sound the group mur-
mured and moved, as if a
spell had been broken, and
when the sulky had gone a safe
distance beyond them they
shouted. The sulky kept on
jogging along, and they shouted
again, rowdily, and began to
follow it, adding to their shouts
high-pitched taunting laughs.
One boy picked up a stone and
threw it. It went wide of the
mark; but Peter’s stone landed
much closer, and rebounded
against one of the turning
wheels.


Novels in Constant Demand
YOU’RE WRONG, DELANEY Bant Singer 12s. Od.
DIGBY by David Walker 13s. 3d.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
by Catherine Gaskin 13s. 6d.
SUNDRY CREDITORS by Nigel Balchin 13s. 3d.
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
LIFE FROM THE SOIL
By H. F. White and C. Stanton Hicks
Two outstanding Australians—a
farmer and a physiologist—have
written this invaluable book for the
practical farmer, and every person
interested in the problems of material
existence. They review many methods
of husbandry, experiments and scien-
tific discoveries. 30/- (post lid.)
HOME FURNISHING IDEAS
A Better Homes and Gardens book
shows you how to add charm, beauty
and comfort to your home at low
cost. Colour schemes, furniture,
floors, walls, lighting, windows, fire-
places, kitchens and bathrooms are
all discussed and illustrated in big
black-and-white and colour photo-
graphs. 14/6 (post 9d.)
Write or call in now for these, and for all the technical and hobbies books you would like . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
the tortuous novels and the two large
volumes of diary that filled his short
life; but at least he could say that his
love was returned, and that he was
offered as much time for practical re-
search as he could spare from writing
about it:
Why, Milena, do you write about a
common future which, after all, will never
be, or is this why you write about it?
Few things are certain, but this is one of
them; We shall never live together, in the
same apartment, body to body, uat the same
table, never, not even in the same
town . . .
Never near enough to make long, bril-
liant and profound letters unnecessary,
one may conclude ; although Kafka may
very well have had other reasons for not
taking unto himself another man’s wife.
Leopardi, on the other hand, a poet
and philologist, whose 4000-page day-
book was not discovered until many
years after his death (of dropsy) at the
age of 39, was under the handicap that
the wife of the famous Florentine doctor
and botanist with whom he was in love
preferred to discount his emotion. This
seemed more proper to her because she
was in love with the unworldly Leopardi’s
protector, Ranieri, who had left Leopardi
behind in Florence to keep her in a good
mood while he followed a beautiful
actress-mistress around Italy.
Leopardi called her Aspasia ; he wrote
two long poems for her, one about a
lover who died, still asking for a kiss ;
and when Ranieri’s beautiful actress
finally dismissed him, Leopardi joined
Fanny (Targioni) in commiserating with
him and denouncing the actress’s perfidy ;
but on Ranieri’s return to Florence to
take up the reins of his affair with Fanny,
Leopardi stopped writing about her, and
never referred to her again.
She had been amusedly pleased with
his poems, and used to refer to him as
“my little hunchback” ; and years after
his death, when she was an old woman
and was asked by a young girl “how it
had been possible for her not to love so
great a poet,” she answered: “My dear,
he stank,” a slightly more sordid end to
a divine passion, surely, than the news
of the death of Kafka’s Milena in a Ger-
man concentration-camp of a kidney
operation too long delayed. For by all
accounts Milena was a most generous
woman to the end ; and of a practical
perception which made her Kafka’s first
translator.
Leopardi’s life, if it had not their
horror and significance, had some of the
weirdness and inconsequence of Kafka’s
nightmare novels. The Leopardis were
the most important family of the “little
city” of Recanati which stands on “a
low hill some fifteen miles from the
Adriatic.” Conte Monaldo, his father,
was a well-intentioned eccentric, who
went always in black, bought books
wherever he found them, of whatever
kind, to enlarge the library which he
opened to his uninterested fellow-
citizens. The Conte’s spending, increased
by such things as marriage-settlements
for marriages he contracted but did not
go through with, made the interest on his
debts equal to the not-inconsiderable
family income. The wife he finally
married took over management of his
affairs in such a way as, without liquidat-
ing any property, to pay off the complete
debt. This put the Conte and young
Giacomo and the brothers and sister who
survived the shocking infant death-rate of
those days on very short commons.
Giacomo, born straight and strong as
other boys, studied incessantly in his
father’s library, contracted his chest, bent
his spine and grew gradually into a
hunchback —but of extraordinary learn-
ing. His own untutored studies made
him the best philologist in Italy. His
mother’s natural kindness was worn be-
neath an impenetrable armor of recti-
tude ; she really believed, and always
said, that she would rather her children
—or, indeed, anyone—should die than
do wrong; and as child after child died
in infancy, she offered up her thanks that
it had been spared the further tempta-
tions of a wicked world.
The children were never allowed to go
out unattended—the daughter was not
allowed to leave the city until she was a
middle-aged woman. The Conte him-
self supplied some of his wife’s lack of
kindness—until Giacomo was 27 the
Conte would sit beside him at meals and
cut his meat; otherwise the scholar
would absent-mindedly put it in his
mouth whole, presumably with his hands.
But Giacomo was already respected for
his learned pamphlets, and famous for
patriotic poems urging an overrun Italy
to unite, before he could get away. There
were plots for passports behind his
father’s back and interceptions of letters
in the subtlest operatic tradition before
his father sent him to his uncle’s palace
in Rome.
There, he hoped and prayed something
amorous would happen to him; but, an
unprepossessing hunchback—a lord, but a
provincial lord—he found that even the
carnival had nothing to offer him. Pre-
served in virtue by necessity, he found
Roman cultural circles too amateur for
his taste. Niebuhr, one of the most
eminent scholars in Europe, and Prussian
Minister to the Vatican, was the only
man in Rome to perceive Leopardi’s
scholastic brilliance, and had him
offered Vatican patronage, but Leopardi’s
objections to taking orders or wearing
the mantelletta of members of the Papal
court ended the matter, and further
efforts in this direction were fumbled.
Leopardi’s several returns to his
father’s home confirmed him in his
preference for poverty in some other
place. No doubt his home-town boys,
who jeered at his back, stoned him, and,
one story has it, slashed him across the
face with a whip, helped this decision.
There were sojourns in Milan and
Bologna, in which latter place he pros-
trated himself before a blue-stocking
Contessa, and she sent for the footman
to bring a glass of water. There were the
attacks of critics upon his melancholy
verse;
One saw rising from the waters a little
Count, who was croaking like a frog on
the river of Cephisus, and saying as he
croaked: “There is no God because I am
a hunchback; I am a hunchback because
there is no God.”
And so on to his friendship with
Ranieri, another young man of family
on short-commons. With Ranieri’s sister
they shared their poverty. Ranieri seems
to have done the best he could for Leo-
pardi’s last years ; in fact, when one reads
this record of his devotion to such a
dissimilar and helpless creature one is
amazed, as in scores of such cases of the
befriending of genius, that Ranieri could
have had such patience.
Reviewed Briefly
Pedagogical Sketchbook: Paul Klee
(Faber). This peculiar publication com-
prises 43 “lessons in design” based on a
chessboard, a bone, a muscle, the heart, a
waterwheel, a plant, railway-sleepers, a
tightrope-walker, etc. It is said that
“from the simple phenomena of inter-
weaving lines it leads to the comprehen-
sion of defined planes.” The translation
is by Sibyl Moholy-Nagy.
* * * *
Land of Australia: Frank Clune (Haw-
thorn Press). Subtitled “Roaming in a
Holden,” this book is frankly a piece of
advertising, filled-up with guide-book in-
formation and containing astonishingly
little personal observation: “The riverine
system of the Hume is as great in volume
of water and number of tributaries as
that of the Darling, but does not drain
an area quite as extensive,” etc.; and
“National advertising has ‘told the world’
of my modest odyssey. Wherever I go
the local news is, ‘Here comes Frank
Clune in his Holden, using Dunlop tyres,
Castrol lubricating-oil and C.O.R.
petrol!”’ etc. Etc.
* * * *
Sydney’s Jewish Community: Dr.
Joseph Staedter and Dr, Hans Kimmel
(Dr. Kimmel, Pennant Hills, N.S.W.).
The authors state their purpose as “to
prepare the ground for future writers of
Sydney’s Jewish post-War II History” and
explain that “as to the polemical tone
of the various entries the author (Dr.
Staedter) is confident that the public will
find it justified by the intransigent attitude
of Sydney’s communal and Zionist leader-
ship to the postulate that progressive
ideas and principles valid in the general
political life in Australia shall also be
applied in the affairs of the Jewish com-
munity.” Consisting mostly of reports of
meetings and addresses, with a running-
commentary in the form of a diary, the
book is raw-material for a special audi-
ence.
♦ ♦ * ♦
The Image and the Search: Walter
Baxter (Heinemann). With his first
novel Look Down in Mercy Mr. Baxter
created a fine stir of enthusiasm amongst
the leading English critics. This, his
second, has some good characterisation
(and some only fair), and some excellent
writing marred, very frequently, by
Baxter’s indulgence in too-detailed
explicitness when intelligent readers will
wish to work out the ramifications of
certain situations for themselves. This
trick prevents his characters from being
“universalised” by the reader and often
jars. The story concerns the “search”
by a beautiful, rich and passionate
young war widow for her husband. Her
quest is both actual—for a time she had
slight reason to hope that he might have
survived an air-crash —and psychologically
symbolic as she endeavors to re-discover
her husband in the persons of various
likely and unlikely men. An odd second-
ary interest in the book is its descriptions
of the growth and manufacture of fine-
quality shellac in India.
m * * *
A Constance Spry Anthology : Con-
stance Spry (Dent). Selections from the
author’s many books about flowers:
some practical advice on arrangement in
bowls and garden-tactics but mostly medi-
tative and graceful paragraphs on every
green thing under the sun. Illustrated
with watefcolors by Rex Whistler and
photographs in black-and-white, it would
be an ideal gift-book for the garden-
lover who likes to reac| about flowers as
well as grow them.
* * - * *
The Vain Ambitions: Robert Gaines
(Heinemann). It is not easy to put one’s
finger on the point, or points, at which
this novel, which explores the downfall
of a political careerist, fails to be better
than average. The book is carefully
written and obviously the author is well-
informed in regard to the technical
political background. Perhaps the fault
is that of late many novels have dealt
with the motives and failures of self-
deluded men —men who have sacrificed
their families and associates to their own
ambitions without always being aware
of the essential baseness of their actions
and motives. Certainly Edward Gillman,
the slum bastard turned leader of a
great trade-union —with his entourage
of unloved wife, unloved and embittered
son, worshipping secretary (who too late
for her personal happiness discovers his
clay feet), and his usual rabble of
toadies and opportunists —has appeared
recently in a great number of rather too-
similar guises. The subject has grown, it
may be, a trifle stale.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 264
Across
I—Stimulant into the cricket-team
hypocrisy. (10)
6 —South cows chew it to run before
the gale. (4)
9 —Bear one in a nut. (5)
10 — They always pick horses. (4)
11 — Voice in the middle of Dalton.
(4)
13 — Fish spear. (4)
14 — Such a little racquet fought with
. unrefined metal. (10)
17—Not out to grill the unapprecia-
tive one. (7)
19 — To do this, no doubt, the dish
ran away with it. (5)
20 — Native doctor is a big noise.
(1-4)
22 — Miss with a slight weapon. (7)
23 — Rib a fool on a hack. (6-4)
25—Australian novelist isn’t fair. (4)
28 — Alpine pep is derived from this
fruit-tree, Cleopatra. (9)
29 — Churl is knocked about by a
sudden sideways movement. (5)
30 — The East with no disputed
features. (4)
31 — Parasite who lives by a lucky
chance. (5-5)
Down
1 — Singers drop and drop before my
over-full pen. (8>
2 Express appreciation for Henry
after tea. (5)
3 A kiss by Lindwall gets under
the skin. (4)
4 Study nothing in part of Ire-
land. (9)
5 The dark thing is hidden. (5)
7 Burns may be covered by a
Napoleonic victory in the large
intestine. (9)
8 — Quack just enough to break a
duck loafer. (5)
12—Let out with regard to a tenancy
agreement. (7)
15 — It’s a sure thing on a source of
quinine. (8)
16 — Study the way to stand this girl.
(9)
18 —Such Spanish puts a tatter on a
compass point. (9)
21 —Free dollars halve a donkey’s
bray. (8)
23 Chart the French Canadian
emblem. (5)
24 — Tropic grain missing in this
island. (5)
26 — Great Chilean pianist who toured
Australia in 1947. (5)
27 It may be treble. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 263


A
/ \
t v\
w mmm
M
■
V
r ■
of two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
BROWN PARER
*
m
v
W
:h'
-;;s
Be proud that the paper your parcels
were wrapped in today is Australian-made
Long-fibred softwood pulp from overseas, and short-fibred hardwood pulp from
Australia’s Eucalypts, combine their best qualities in Australian-made brown paper.
Long and short fibred pulps, blended in scientifically controlled proportions during
manufacture, result in a high quality, strong and durable brown Kraft Paper.
. . . and not only the paper! The cartons containing your favorite breakfast cereal,
washing powder, toothpaste and digestive tablets . . . the thousand-and-one com-
modities now contained in strong hygienic cartons . . * account for ton-upon-ton of
Australian-made cardboard.
-- '•
m
*k
m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Aikman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matraville, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping and Packaging 7 rade
