

THE HOUSE
sd
OF SEPPE
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAG
The Bulletin
BLUEPRINT FOR LIVING— m©c 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3879
Wednesday, June 16, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT, MATRIX OF DEMOCRACY
THE official name of the Houses of Parliament in London is the Palace of
Westminster. It occupies the site of the old Royal Palace which was
chief residence of the Sovereign from the time of Edward the to
Henry VIII. The oldest remaining part of the Royal Palace is Westminster
Hall, built in 1097 by William Rufus. Here, romance, tragedy, splendour,
treachery and national sorrow have all had their habitation. In few othc
buildings in Britain has so much history been enacted.
The magnificent hammer-beam roof with its noble sweep of springing
arches has echoed the solemnity of State trials, the proclamation and dethrone-
ment of kings; it has served as a tilting yard and also as a tennis court.
During repairs to the roof in 1914 tennis balls, believed to be of the ti
of Henry VIII, were found high up on the beams Here glittering coronation
feasts have been held; at the coronation banquet of James II th„ King s
Champion rode into the Hall in full armour and challenged anyone wh
disputed the King’s right to succeed.. The last banquet by the
challenee was held at the coronation of George IV (1820). Here Oliver
Cromwell took the oath as Lord Protector in 1653 and eight years later his
head was impaled on a spike and Ihed “.# s r^ n li' ,e lo ?f e^
StfSlS aMnfUe IS*
ly^™i te is°re2Jded cradle of the British parliamentary constitution
Chirks iVho stTOd trial and helrd his death sentence pronounced in the
H rlp n State'’trial of Guy Fawkes, who planned to blow up the houses of
Parliament in 1605, is commemorated annually and almost affectionately wx
bonfires and fireworks on the govern r. WestminsteT Hall was badly
damaged wfs ’An* with oak iimber which was
growing wood when the original roof was built.


SYMBOLIC FALLACY
The laudable aim of certain prominent
Australian novelists to hold up the mirror
to phases of our way of living has had, in
many instances, disastrous consequences.
Too often has the preoccupation with an
aspect of our national life resulted in the
drawing of characters who are insipid,
uninteresting or unreal.
No novel can be rated highly as
creative literature if the characters are
allowed to become subsidiary to the social
and industrial background, or to the
political and sociological enthusiasms of
the author. Moreover, this conception of
a novel as primarily a social treatise has
been the cause of major structural defects.
These defects, which are common to
many of our sociological novels, include
the arbitrary tacking-on of illustrative
incidents which are extraneous to the plot
structure, the suspension of the action for
long periods while the author delves
•unnecessarily into past history, the mis-
placement of central characters, the rele-
gation of leading characters to secondary
roles, the introduction of unassimilated
junks of social theorising and political
propaganda, and the improbable and illo-
gical development of plot.
Occasionally we find a novel in which
the characterisation is strong and the
structure sound marred by the author’s
attempt to impose on his work the charac-
ter of a national epic. Brian Fenton’s
Landtakers is an example. Fenton has
stated his aim thus: —
Growing up in a period when Australians
had begun to feel m themselves the germ
of a new people and to tumble for words to
express themselves I often wondered what
■roots that new psyche was coming from.
Then it struck me that the answer was
somewhere in the life of this old man and
his generation. If 1 could piece together
the picture of the epoch as I had inherited
it from him —the savage deeds, the cruel
life, the hatred between men and men, and
men and country, the home-sickness, the
loneliness, the despair of inescapable exile
in the bush; the strange forms of madness
and cruelty; the brooding, inturned charac-
ters; and, joined to this, an almost fanatic
idealism which repudiated the past and the
tyranny of the past and looked to the future
in a new country for a new heaven and
earth, a new justice; on the one hand the
social outcasts, men broken by degradation
and suffering, on the other the adventurers:
blackest pessimism balancing the most
radiant optimism—if I could only see all
this, then I Would understand.
The author’s insistence on this inter-
pretation of his novel detracts from its
value for two important reasons. In the
first place, the nature and structure of
the work scarcely admit of an impartial
presentation of the vicissitudes of pioneer
life; the balance between blackest pessi-
mism and radiant optimism is not main-
tained, the scales being always, and
increasingly, weighted in favor of the
former. No one could believe that the
picture of conditions presented here does
not exaggerate their darker side. There
is not, in the Australia of Landtakers, one
wholly decent, normal character. There
is scarcely a mention of the gentle graces
of human life. The portrayal of the social
background is false, not in its elements
but in its entirety ; first, because too much
horror has been crowded on to too small
a canvas, and secondly, because all else
but horror has been excluded.
But an even greater defect in the work,
if it must be regarded in the light of the
above, is Fenton’s choice of Cabell as
hero.
Our present outlook has, as has that
of any race that has ever existed, been
greatly influenced by our past experiences,
and the hardships undergone by our
pioneer settlers-have undoubtedly-been an
important factor in this influence. But
the life of a person like Cabell is one of
the last to which we go to gain true
understanding of the extent to which our
national outlook has been moulded by the
lives of our pioneer ancestors.
Cabell was essentially an eccentric
character. Only in the superficialities of
his life —the trouble with blacks, the lone-
liness, the prodigious exertions, the
relentless battle against natural forces —
does he typify the pioneer. It is not from
these hardships that Landtakers gets its
color, but from the life of Cabell, and
that was influenced by forces far more
subtle than those of his social and physical
environment.
He was an evil character —evil in ways
in which most of his contemporary
pioneers certainly were not —and the
vicious acts which were a feature of his
life were not wholly the result of his
environment. He was never, except in his
nostalgic fancies, a fine or gentle person.
Something of his true nature is revealed
on the<second page of the novel-: —
He spoke in a petulant way and when
the old man did not move, his full red
lower lip thrust out like a spoiled child's.
‘Til wake you up,” he muttered, and seizing
a stick from the ground, threw it with all
his strength at the old man’s head.
Cabell was a moral coward and had
within himself, when he came to Aus-
tralia, the power to indulge in mean,
spiteful and blackguardly actions —a
power which, in the lawless life of the
infant colony, he exercised whenever
circumstances made it expedient. His
dedicating himself to deeds as vague and
glorious as the Milky Way was, in reality,
nothing more than a vindictive desire to
get even with the brothers who had mis-
treated him.
It is true that he received some hard
knocks and many of them could have
been directly attributed to his life in
Australia. But for his reactions to these
knocks Australia cannot be held respon-
sible. The way of life brought to light
the defects in his character, but it was not
the cause of them. They sprang from
weaknesses in a nature which could
scarcely have been a shining example of
rectitude in any land.
As a novel dealing with a character
vitiated by the evils of shame and spite
Landtakers is a profound and successful
work, even though a sordid one. But,
though these vices could be the pre-
dominating influences in the life of an
individual, they cannot conceivably be
regarded as characteristic of a class or of
a generation. Therefore, Cabell cannot
faithfully represent the lives of that
valiant and heterogeneous band, the
pioneers. And, indeed, there would be
no need to regard Cabell as a medium
for a generation were it not for the fact
that Penton has expressly stated that he
is. If it must be considered as an attempt
to “piece together the picture of an
epoch,” the work must be dismissed as
wrong in approach, prejudiced in develop-
ment and false in effect.
Turning from the pioneering days to
modern times we find M. Barnard Elder-
shaw’s Tomorrow and Tomorrow. This
belongs to the class of what might be
called “propaganda” novels and portrays,
for certain non-literary ends, life in Syd-
ney from the ’twenties until some time in
the future, with the accent on that fruit-
ful source of literary inspiration the
economic depression of the ’thirties.
One of the leading characters is Harry
Munster- the Common Man. This, of
course is an almost indefinable term, even
if we allow to “common” the meaning
“average.” No one-sees himself as an
average person and each man’s conception
of the average-man will differ according
to the class to which he belongs.
Our present use of the expression
“common man” is even more flexible and
is capable of embracing almost any
member of society. And yet it is always
a little more than a mere synonym for
“human being.” It is expressive of the
common attributes of men, but it is in
the imperceptibility of any of the qualities
which differentiate between men, rather
than in the conspicuity of qualities which
make them kin, that we recognise the
relationship expressed in “the common
man.” The common man may commit a
murder or win a lottery or be singled out
as Mr. Common Man, but immediately
anything of this nature happens to him
he becomes a distinct individual and
ceases to be included within the scope of
the term “common man.”
It is not merely the singling out of
Munster, however, but the singularity of
his experiences that makes his representa-
tion of either the common or the average
man an obvious distortion.
Only in such things as speech, educa-
tion, temperament, physique—-and these,
incidentally, he could number among his
blessings—is Munster typical of many of
his fellow-men. The misfortunes which
at every turn his creators force upon him
make him almost unique. And yet the
implication of M. Barnard Eldershaw’s
referring to him as the Common Man
must be that similar and similarly profuse
misfortunes were common to the majority
of his contemporaries.
Ally, his wife, is one of Munster’s
greatest misfortunes. She is an appalling
creation. Poverty, plus the base inclina-
tions presumably natural to one of her
class, makes of her an unscrupulous
trollop, stupid, cunning, lazy and selfish,
living in an atmosphere of petty gossip,
crafty manipulation of time-payment de-
mands, unmade beds and grubby little
paper-bags. Are we to regard her as
what she must logically be, Mrs. Common
Man? Similar women no doubt exist,
but they are not typical of the wife of
the working-man.
But Ally is only one misfortune among
many. Forced in the middle ’twenties,
to give up the struggle for existence on an
over-mortgaged poultry-farm, Munster
and his family move to Sydney. They
move into a dismal tenement in a dirty
slum —temporarily, they hope, but it be-
comes their permanent residence. The
night they move in the infant son dies
of a kidney condition. Munster gets a
job as a lorry-driver, but loses it at the
beginning of the depression because he
is a unionist. Despite constant tramping
and seeking he is for five years unem-
ployed. When there is a slight ameliora-
tion of his distress, it is due to luck and
the influence of money. The turn in his
fortunes brings him into contact with
Gwen and his love for her brings a suc-
cession of dreadful calamities —estrange-
ment from his best-loved daughter, death
to himself, drunkenness, prostitution and
death to Gwen.
The percentage of Australians who live
in the equivalent of a Darlinghurst slum
is small. Even smaller is the percentage
of men who were unemployed for five
years or who were taken under the wings
of wealthy philanthropists. Add to these
his other misfortunes, and Munster must
surely be regarded as a unique individual.
The claim that he typifies the Australian
worker becomes ridiculous.
Consider, too, the characters who repre-
sent other phases of Sydney society.
There is the talkative old harridan, Mrs.
Blan, an unscrupulous racketeer and his
unscrupulous wife, a conscientious-
objector, a prostitute who wins a prize in
a lottery, a Communist taxi-driver, a
wealthy philanthropist and his free-think-
ing daughter, a body of ancient, isolated
and unworldly professors. Surely we are
not expected to believe that these repre-
sent a fair cross-section of the society of
Munster’s day. Yet they should do, if
we are to regard the work as the authors
ask us to. “I’ve wanted to make again
that lost world,” remarks Knarf, and the
lost world to which he refers is the Aus-
tralia of our generation. It is inconceiv-
able that the authors would have allowed
Knarf to paint of us a picture that we
are not expected to accept as life-like.
Here, as with Landtakers, the novel
fails because it does not measure-up to
the requirements demanded by the
authors. There is no need fpr Munster
to be the Common Man. The portrayal
of him as an individual is vivid and
authentic, and as an individual he is
adequate in the role that is allotted to
him. The authors, and not the structure
of the novel, demand that he should
typify the Australian working-man, and
the demand is made, not in the interests
of creative literature but of sociological
theorising.
The same criticism can be applied to
the background. An author can quite
legitimately place the whole of his novel
in a street such as Carnation-street if he
so desires and M., Barnard Eldershaw’s
Carnation-street is powerfully and realis-
tically drawn. As a portrayal of a slum
street this is as fine as anything in our
literature. But Carnation-street is not
the world. It is only a small section of a
very complex whole, and the attempt to
present the part as the whole must result
in falsification. By stressing the claim
that what they portray is a faithful inter-
pretation of Sydney life the authors force
us to judge this work —and to judge it to
its detriment—by standards which are not
.necessarily those by which we measure
literary quality.
J.C.H.
Waten Novel
When Judah Waten’s short stories,
Alien Son, were published the Press was
impressed by those clear,, sympathetic
studies of poor Jewish families and their
struggles with the Australian environ-
ment; and when Mr. Waten secured a
Commonwealth literary fellowship to do
some more writing it was felt that this
grant, at least, would secure a valuable
addition to our literature in the form of
a study of the Australian life of the race
that gave us Isaacs and Monash.
The result is a novel, The Unbending
(Australasian Book Society), which
brings Solomon Kochansky from Russia
to Australia in 1910, accompanied by his
wife and three-year-old son, Moses. At
Fremantle they are met by Kochansky’s
boyhood friend Gershon Mandelstein,
who has prospered in the new country
and .is a little ashamed of his old friend.
He advises Kochansky to set up as a
hawker in Stirlington, 12 miles from
Perth, and explains that his friend Coun-
cillor Johnson has agreed to let the
Kochanskys a cottage and to take an
interest in them.
We soon perceive that Mandelstein is
a snobbish moneygrubber, while Coun-
cillor Johnson, on his way to becoming
mayor, is a plotter and contriver: one
of his first suggestions to Kochansky is
that he should spy on “the Italians down
on the river and the Russians up at the
sawmills and in the workshops.” Kochan-
sky is a simple, timid and honorable
man; well educated, but with no head
for business. He does not make himself
useful to Councillor Johnson ; and when
he finds he can’t make a go of hawking,
he seeks more advice from Mandelstein
at Mandelstein’s Perth office. Mandel-
stein, about to receive an important
caller, thrusts him out a side-door with
a ten-pound note and the advice that it
is a good time to buy—whereupon
Kochansky goes home and fills his back-
yard with junk.
With the outbreak of World War I,
Councillor Johnson and Mandelstein see
an opportunity to buy-up property, and
hope that conscription may go through
so that they may take even more advant-
age of men being out of the country.
On the other hand an honest, cheery
strike-leader, George Feathers, who has
been ejected from his cottage with his
large family, and has to live in a hut
in the bush, joins the 1.W.W., and attends
meetings with similarly-disposed locals
in the hope of foiling the conscription-
ists and stopping the war by passing a
motion. This is their way of helping
foolish fellows like Bill Williams, who
has thoughtlessly gone off to the war and
is to come back minus an arm.
The Kochansky family is caught-up
between the machinations of the wicked
Johnson and the noble humanitarianism
of George Feathers and his I.W.W.
friends. Already young Moses, harshly
treated in the State school, has, because
of deliberate misunderstanding, suffered
being called a “Hun” ; and his friendship
for the Feathers family brings him under
the cruel interrogation of detectives
when one of the Feathers boys is prose-
cuted for theft. Solomon Kochansky
himself is grievously misunderstood and
harried by police’ for just happening to
pass an I.W.W. meeting which develops
into a riot and going to the aid of the
aged-wife of an I.W.W. member who has
been knocked down in the crush.
The book ends with the imprisonment
of the I.W.W. members by their ungrate-
ful country, and the decision of Kochan-
sky, forced upon him by his wife, that he
is too good for private enterprise and
had better get himself a job in Perth,
where, apparently, Mr. Waten is to
follow his shadowy-fortunes, having in-
dustriously begun a sequel under this
same Commonwealth grant.
If Mr. Waten had written this novel
under his own steam, it might have been
dismissed as a piece of political propa-
ganda with a few touches of artistry;
but to have done it on Commonwealth
grant, under a Liberal Government,
elevates it to a really smart bit of
business.
THE ISLAND
0 lovely, long-legged lazy blonde
Wandering down the sand to the sea.
Tell me what island lies beyond
1 he water that laps your flexing knee.
Are there flowers and trees whose fruits
will not fail.
Are there fish to leap on the barbs of the
spear,
Are there reefs to humble the pride of the
gale,
Is it summer and sunlight ■all the year?
Curve like a seal, throw back your hair,
Dive all green to the netted sand.
Rise in my arms and tell me where
In the endless world is such an island.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTION.
The Red Page
Dylan Thomas's Last Work
Maybe it is part of the universal plan
that as our age speeds-up the development
of new techniques it speeds-up our ability
to employ them, and that no sooner do
we begin to get somewhere with the silent
film than we are pushed back to taws
with talkies ; ho sooner do we develop
the broadcast play than television calls
for a complete revaluation. If the art of
Chaplin and Fairbanks may be considered
to have brought on talkies by exhausting
all that the silent .film can do, Dylan
Thomas’s “Play for Voices” Under Milk
Wood (Dent) will probably be mentioned
in fifty years’ time as one of the peaks
of radio-playwriting, and possibly the
tallest, before television.
For although it overlaps television by a
good few years, and may well be the last
effort of sound-broadcasting to do some-
thing really big, Thomas had been
working on it for ten years when he
finished it a month before his death in
New York on December 9 of last year.
It was first broadcast on January 25 of
this year, its 79 parts taken by 27 Welsh
actors and actresses (some doubling up
C Continued on page 35)


:\\V
** ' M
sm
iiiiliii:
:CV % v ; •:•••::
• ...”
m
M
A
>
>
SiS:W?S
HH
'ZjMa-xS
■mmm
'
&$&& -v * 'xM
fe . ** *. si ;• f sv"s S •..• •%
Our multiple shoe fitting section brings you
All the Famous Names in Men’s Footwear
I
Just walk into our sfioe department and our salesmen will find the shoe that fits perfectly ... a shoe that
could have been tailored just for you! For here you 11 find the largest range of famous brand names of
multiple shoes in Sydney . . . names such as Hansman, Julius Marlow, Packard, etc. At Anthony Horderns’
your "fit” is assured by the use of the famous Brannock measuring device, plus the experienced staff.
Packard
Julius Marlow
Hansman
88
m
m
Above-.
Warwick calf Oxford in black or tan, 80/9. 5-13.
Unillustrated:
Julius Marlow “Coaster” in black or tan calf, 80/9.
5 to 12.
Illustrated above, from left to right:
Packard Shoes. This famous name
shoe comes in many different styles,
ranging in price from 86/- to 98/-.
Illustration shows black calf plain
toe Derby, also tan, 86/-. Fractional
fittings. Sizes 5 to 12.
Julius Marlow. In 60 measured fit-
tings, black and tan calf, ranging in
price from 80/9 to 89/-. Illustrated
Moccasin Golf Shoe with rubber sole
and heel, in tan calf. Sizes are 5 to
12 in 60 measured fittings.
Hansman Shoes. Super grade shoes
are made in the finest black or tan
calf. You have them in either round
or square toe. In fractional fittings,
3 to 11. 109/-.
MEN’S SHOES. GROUND FLOOR.
GEORGE STREET. ’PHONE
M 2401, BOX 27 12, G.P.O,
SYDNEY.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthonj Horderns
gs
,
Above:
Packard “Plateau” in a rich cherry calf with leather
soles in fractional fittings. Sizes 5 to 10. Price 91/-
also in tan calf with moulded rubber Golf soles.
Price 93/6.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 16, 1954
Vol, 75—No, 3879
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.). Wellington.
DEALING WITH MOSCOW
Plans abound for “settlement” of the affairs of Indo-
China, Mr, Casey has left for Geneva carrying a
new one which he has by this time confided to Mr.
Nehru. But in practical terms any plan which isolates
either Indo-China or even South-East Asia from the
rest of the world is useless, and, indeed, an actual aid
to the Communists rather than to the attainment of
peace, which can be achieved only on a world basis.
The United States, gradually abandoning its piece-
meal policy, has come in the past six months to adopt
this view, which was most clearly stated ahead of
General Eisenhower by Australia’s Paul Hasluck.
President Eisenhower on May 31 enlarged on the subject
in an overall review. He said that the United States
policy sought “rebirth of trust among all nations, and
readiness to adopt measures towards the achievement
of this trust had been shown in steps to obtain an
honorable armistice in Korea, a free and united
Germany, a liberated Austria, a secure Indo-China
and South-East Asia and the harnessing of atomic
energy for peaceful purposes under international
control.” He emphasised that the fundamental objec-
tives of United States policy called for were not a
“mere breathing-space free from imminent crisis,” but
a permanent basis of arrangement which would endure.
But he admitted the difficulty of achieving this
through arrangement with Communist Powers which
“cannot and will not see the truth,” and which
negotiate ruthlessly in tune with a definite policy in
which there is no compromise.
In Korea he felt that a first step had been taken
which inaugurated new principles of freedom in that it
allowed prisoners-of-war for the first time in history to
elect to which side they should be released ; but he said
that the second step had been baulked by Russia’s
establishing a bar to unification of Germany through
demanding “a satellite climate in that country,”
refusal to agree to any plan for Austria acceptable
to the West in a manner which “made it better to break
off discussions rather than agree to a compromise
which might exact a price in blood in years to come.”
’ President Eisenhower pronounced the Geneva talks
on the atomic energy to have been disappointing,
though he proposed to proceed with them, adding that
surely the men of the Kremlin must realise that before
all men now lies a grand prospect of a far better life
for everyone, and that the achievement of it “required
only that scientists of every nation concentrate on a
plentiful life rather than on sudden death ; that millions
under arms be released to fruitful work; that the
industries of war be concerned to the production of
useful goods.”
But all this is visionary in the face of Communist
ambition. The main problem to be faced now and
immediately is not the mere stopping of the Com-
munists at a particular line in Indo-China or else-
where, but the stopping everywhere of their
ideas, which are flowing into every corner
of the world. At the price of blood a line might
be drawn anywhere in Asia, but so long as international
Communism persists, there is no chance of settlement;
only of the compromise which represents the “ebb and
flow” in Communist tactics which Lenin and Stalin both
declared to be necessary to world victory for their
forces.
As far back as 1924 a Russian refugee Students’
Association in Paris documented Communist plans
from Russian official public papers, and quoted, as the
pith of Moscow’s creed of internationalism, that “the
Kremlin is the Mecca and Medina of all enslaved
peoples.” It set out in orderly fashion, also from
official sources, the scheme which was realised so fully
in its first phases by the lopping-off of most of the
branches of the British Empire—“the sapping work by
local organisations, the gradual splitting-off of huge
lumps of the British Empire by means of insurrection
and local threats of force.” And it quoted “Pravda”
on the aftermath—“that the ideas of Lenin are becom-
ing the sacred ideas of liberation of all the nations of
the East.”
The modus opcrandi then proposed hy the Eastern
Bureau of the Comintern (of which the head was the
Indian, Roy, and the Australian member J. S. Garden)
has become thoroughly familiar:
The Communist parties must sret into touch with
the revolutionary movement in the colonies (i.e., of
European nations in Asia) through those parties and
groups representing the advanced posts of the work-
ing class. At first the revolution in the colonies will
not be Communistic in its character, but if from the
start it will be led by a Communistic vanguard, the
revolutionary masses will find themselves in the right
way of their goal.
It is a perfect picture of the technique in Korea and
Indo-China,
Conferences of the Geneva type are sugar to
Moscow. They concentrate attention on, local and
immediate issues, or parts of the world issue, instead of
the whole. Local wars are in the same category.
Piecemeal sums-up their chosen method, and when the
Western world achieves a viewpoint which enables it
to cease following Moscow policy round like a dog it
will have made the first real step towards peace.
Communism and Communist policy must be tackled
now and as a whole. The issue becomes more imminent
every day with each new country snatched behind the
Iron Curtain and with each new conference a failure.
When the Premiers Meet
Towards the end of this month the State Premiers
and Treasurers will converge on Canberra for the'
Loan Council meeting which will determine the scale
of public works for 1954-55. There are hopes that this
year s proceedings will be conducted on a more states-
manlike level than the rowdy scramble into which
they have degenerated in recent years; but in such a
case there will have to be a big change in the attitude
of the “Labor” Premiers. The pattern has been to go
to Canberra with a target-figure fixed far and away
above any chance of fulfilment and without any
regard at all to the capacity of the loan-market; the
hope being that when the Federal representatives
object and the figure is cut down under violent protest
it will still be close to the estimated requirements of
the State.
This system of haggling, which seems to derive
more from Oriental markets than from modern theory
on public finance, is explained partly by a desire to
get funds to fulfil prodigal election promises made more
with eye on votes than on national welfare, and
partly—particularly in the last year or so—with the
intention of making the Menzies-Fadden Government
appear an obstacle in the way of “enlightened progress.”
It has been “Labor” policy to present a picture of
Australia something like this: every parish in dire
need of public-works projects, all equally important
to national development; “Labor” Governments with
plans and blueprints of these projects complete to the
last detail; men and machines standing by, rearing to
go; investors eager to put their money into loans at
low rates of interest, but reluctant to trust the Federal
Government even at high rates ; Canberra bursting
with money, but unwilling to encourage development
because it really favors the growth of an unemploy-
ment pool. Any suggestion that all projected works
cannot be of the same order of importance, and that
a priority-list should be prepared, has been met with
charges of infringing State rights. Right down to last
year, in New South Wales and Victoria, at any rate, it
was the practice when Loan Council allocations fell
below optimistic estimates to cut all works pro rata,
instead of closing-down less essential works and con-
centrating on the more important. When develop-
mental. schemes are used as election-bait all become
of equal importance.
At last year’s meeting of the Loan Council, Acting-
Premier Galvin of Victoria croaked, “Half-finished
works all over Victoria are stark monuments to the
Commonwealth’s timidity on loan estimates.” They
were, of course, nothing of the sort. Rather were
they monuments to the administrative ineptitude of
his own Government and of the McDonald Govern-
ment which his party had previously kept in office.
Mr. Galvin added that “this meeting should decide
on a figure which will restore confidence in loan
investment.” Acting-Premier Heffron went further.
He wanted Federal taxes reduced by £lOO million,
which he estimated would result in an increased loan-
investment of £6O million. This, he calculated, would
bring public-loan investment to £l4O million, and the
difference between this figure and the amount necessary
to secure and maintain full employment “should be
met from credit and other sources.”
With these principles in mind the Acting-Premiers
—their chiefs away at the Coronation, but on past
records with them in spirit—then presented their bill
for £440 million, which included £lO2 million for
semi-government bodies and £2O million for local
authorities. The States’ own figure was £316 million,
Compared with an actual programme of £l9O million
for the previous year, of which £125 million had been
financed out of Commonwealth resources.
When Treasurer Fadden described the figure as
fantastic and said the limit to which the Common-
wealth could agre'e was £2OO million —half from loans
and half from Commonwealth guarantee —only the
South Australian representative was prepared to accept
it. The five “Labor” Premiers shrieked blue-murder,
and went through the motions of “adopting” an
amended, programtne of £231 million, although they
knew the Fadden figure was the Commonwealth’s limit.
The council then broke up, Mr. Galvin gloomily
warning Fadden that “the States and Common-
wealth will find an army of unemployed on their
hands,” and that as far as Victoria was concerned the
Commonwealth would be paying more out for
unemployment than it saved on the loan allocation.
Twelve months have passed, and the army of
unemployed doesn’t amount to a platoon, while the
electors of Victoria have shown, by reducing “Labor’s”
representation in Canberra, what they now think of
Galvin’s gloomy propaganda.
In his policy-speech, after mentioning that of every
£lO spent by the States on public works in the past
three years the Federal Government had found £7,
Mr. Menzies said that if the Commonwealth was to
assume the burden of finding money for State works
out of the taxpayers’ money, it had a duty to see “that
the selection of works to be done should be guided
by their order of true national importance.”
Although previous suggestions for a priority-list
have been rejected by the Premiers they may be in a
more amendable frame of mind this year. Throughout
1952 and 1953 their policies were more-or-less
subordinated to the task of defeating the Menzies
Government in 1954. That attempt having failed, and
with the next election three years away, politics should
not play so great a part in Loan Council deliberations.
"Labor" and the Constitution
Mr. Menzies’ election pledge to “constitute
an all-party committee of both Houses to review the
working of the Constitution and make recommenda-
tions for its amendment” will be well received by
Government members. But it is asking a bit much to
expect Labor” Parliamentarians to join in with any
measure of goodwill. “Labor” is committed to establish
the Socialist State and a Supreme Economic Council,
and this means no mere review of the Constitution but
its complete scrapping.
Since Federation 60 bills to alter the Constitution
have been introduced into the Federal Parliament. Of
these, 24 have been submitted to the people at 14
referenda. “Labor” holds the record of having proposed
the greatest number of alterations and by far the most
drastic.
During the second Fisher Ldbor Administration,
between April 29, 1910, and June 24, 1913, no fewer
than nine bills aiming at complete centralisation of
power by amending the Constitution were introduced.
They were all lost in one form or another. The nine
bills included one proposal which aimed at the abolition
of the States and the establishment of a Federal Unitary
Government. Corporations, trusts, monopolies,
industrial matters, railway disputes, trade and
commerce were canvassed by other proposals. Labor
persisted in its attempts to get complete powers on
these points, and the same bills were presented again
during the Hughes Labor Ministry. Writs for a
referendum on these powers were issued on November
2, 1915, but were withdrawn by “Gazette” notice on
the 18th of that month.
From 1919 to 1941 Labor was in office only for
two years and three months, between 1929 and the
beginning of 1932. During this period the Scullin
Government introduced a bill for. a referendum which
sought to confer on the Commonwealth Parliament
power to alter the Constitution at any time and in any
manner without approval by the electors. The Senate,
conscious of its responsibility as a States’ House,
negatived the bill.
Ln 1942 Dr. Evatt, as Attorney-General in the
Curtin Government, opened a campaign for greater
Commonwealth powers—a campaign that was to
extend over two years. Under the disarming title of
“War Aims and Reconstruction,” Dr. Evatt’s 14-points
plan was designed to give to the Commonwealth
Parliament, at the expense of the States, the widest
possible legislative power.
Moving the first reading of the original amend-
ment in the House of Representatives on October 1,
1942, Dr. Evatt revealed “Labor’s” attitude towards
the Constitution when he declared: “I desire to make
it perfectly clear that the amendment I propose will
give the decision to Parliament itself, and no person
will be able to challenge the validity of Parliament’s
decision.!’ Dr. Evatt made a bid to get the State Parlia-
ments to cede most of their legislative powers; it
failed, and in 1944 his proposals, with an ingenuous
“five-year time-limit” tacked on, were put to the people.
They rejected them.
In 1946 the Chifley “Labor” Government sought
power to legislate with respect to social services,
marketing and employment. . The social-services
amendment on that occasion was won. This is one of
the four amendments which have been made to the
Constitution by referendum ; the other three were a
minor alteration affecting the Senate, and two relating
to State dpbts. It is interesting to note that prior to
Australia’s ratification of the Statute of Westminster,
the Imperial Parliament altered the Australian Consti-
tution and gave the Australian Parliament power to
give effect to certain provisions of the International
Convention for the amelioration of the wounded and
sick in armies in the field.
The most recent attempt by the “Labor” party
for increased Federal power was in 1948. This related
to control of prices and rents. The referendum was lost.
While the actions of the “Labor” party
since Federation clearly point to “Labor’s” desire to
see the Commonwealth Constitution amended to give
complete centralisation of legislative power, the
platform and policy of the party puts beyond doubt
“Labor’s” aim. Section 3a .of the party’s platform
reads; “Clothing of the Commonwealth Parliament
with sovereign powers and with authority to create
States or provinces possessing delegated Constitutional
powers.” This objective, if put into effect, would mean
the' extinction of State Parliaments a$ we know them.
“Abolition of the Senate”, is Section 3e of
“Labor’s” platform. The Senate was created primarily
for the protection of State rights, and even though this
function has deteriorated, the Senate still bears the
responsibility of safeguarding the rights of the States.
In spite of “Labor’s” attitude towards the Consti-
tution, review is much needed. The withering-away of
the powers of local-government, the atrophying of the
States’ sovereignty and the legislative hamstringing of
the Federal Parliament on great national issues are only
a few of the profound matters affecting the Con-
stitution. But in his efforts to effect those Constitutional
leforms which are needed, Mr. Menzies won’t get much
support from “Labor,” whose ideas on Constitutional
matters are incompatible with the traditions of free
people.


THE RED RIVER


PLAIN ENGLISH
France and the World
With what seems a complete stalemate on
Korea and other issues at Geneva —in
fact, the usual Moscow triumph in the
frustration and bewilderment of the
West—the fall of the French Government
brings nearer a crisis in world affairs.
Fiance, with the responsibility of Indo-
China defence on its hands, was badly
enough placed with a creaking five-party
Laniel Administration in power ; but it
is now in a desperate position, for no
armistice or other arrangements can be
made about the Vietnam-Vietminh war
without France, which, being politically
in chaos, cannot speak with a voice that is
likely to be listened to or make agree-
ments through a source which can give
any guarantee that it can carry out its
undertakings a year hence.
The Republic, whatever may be the
fighting value of other countries, is the
strategic heart of the Western defence
system—its greatest * weakness though it
should be its greatest strength. That this
position has been reached through the
immense sacrifices of two wars, mainly
World War I, does not make the reality
any less alarming.
There seems to be no method in sight
which can effect either a swift, a radical
or a permanent cure. There is no party
which can carry on alone or even
dominate a coalition so firmly as to assure
its stability. There is no group of parties
even so optimistic—after the experiences
of the past few years —as to wish for
office.
There is no guiding influence which,
through a dissolution of the Assembly and
a general election, could hope to establish
a unified governing party.
That a great nation can be in such a
state of muddle while playing tyler for
civilisation at a point at which the gates
of the West threaten to burst under the
pressure of Communist aggression is a
tragedy; and this the more because it
would be almost impossible for other
nations to take a direct hand in Indo-
china without precipitating World War
111.
"Labor" in Uproar
Events are proving that, even in its on-
slaughts on Communism, “Labor” can-
not get rid of the blight put upon its
methods by those who made its industrial
organisation. Even those parts of it which
have conquered Communist-run unions
seem to be almost as arrogantly authori-
tarian in their methods as the Commun-
ists, The leopard cannot change its
spots, and it is sad for “Labor” that spots
should be showing through so strongly
when two “Labor” conferences, in New
South Wales and Victoria, are opening.
Never did the party need an unobtrusive
setting more than at present.
On the eve of the N. S. Wales gather-
ing the A.L.P. executive scooped a mass
of embarrassment off the doormat —a
mixed bag of corrupt aldermen and recal-
citrant issuers of personal voting-tickets
—and hurled them into the near-by
bushes hoping they would stay there. Mr.
Joe Arthur had to be repelled almost
with force when he attended bent on
exculpating himself for his associations
with Aubrey Reginald Doyle.
The voice of Dr. Evatt earnestly an-
nouncing that he had the better half of
the country’s mandate and a fine majority
of total votes, was drowned in Mr.
Cahill’s expressions of a persecution-com-
plex. The hubbub caused the ejection of
a Communist reporter and yells of venom
directed at Mr. Landa.
The executive was strongly criticising
Mr. Landa, and apparently Mr. Cahill
was also. The report said that Cahill had
shown “surprise and chagrin” that his
Minister for Labor —no doubt day-
dreaming at the time about the Legation
in Tel Aviv, for which he was said to be
bound in the event of Dr. Evatt winning
the Federal elections—had failed to con-
sult the industrial committee of the
A.L.P. about coming legislation. As if
this were not enough, Mr. Kelly, Mr.
Cahill’s largest colleague, was being
trounced by a stalwart in Bathurst for
his attitude on Sunday shopping.
The halls of democracy were loud
with the clump of feet as big disillusioned
battalions marched out. Portly, opulently-
tailored figures which had lent dignity to
the party’s conclaves over the last year
didn’t line-up at the table for nomination
for next year’s executive. Mr. Dougherty
and Mr. Oliver, Federal and N. S. Wales
secretaries of the A.W.U. respectively,
have given Dr. Evatt’s branch away, and
thus withdraw the aid and counsel from
N. S. Wales official “Labor” of the
leaders of 200,000 of the Common-
wealth’s solidest unionists. The vke-
president of the Timber Workers, the
general secretary of the Builders’
Laborers, the general secretary of the
Miners’ Federation will no longer grace
the debates of the party’s dominating
N. S. Wales junta.
Some unions which have broken away
did not even come to explain themselves.
They did it in the Press on the Wednes-
day before the meeting. All were behind
a fierce ultimatum that the branch must
dissociate itself from the industrial-
groups.
The powerful Transport . Workers,
which has a third of its 90,000 members
in N. S. Wales, and which claims to have
“no Communist problem,” but a Labor
history and tradition second to none,
walked out on June 9, announcing that
it had delayed action so as not to em-
barrass “Labor” in the Federal elections.
The Boilermakers, a Left-wing union,
followed suit, loudly demanding re-
instatement of four members expelled
from the A.L.P. for opposing in-
dustrial-group candidates at union
elections, and so did the Federated
Engine-drivers, a body of the same kid-
ney, whose members. are incensed by
“A.L.P. interference in union affairs.”
The industrial-groups proved that they
were in complete control of the conference
before it was over, and had carried by
overwhelming majorities resolutions
ordering the Cahill Government to intro-
duce by legislation court-controlled union
ballots and compulsory voting at union
elections.
The position poses some fine problems
for ( a ) the next Triennial Federal Confer-
ence, which shies like a mare at a lighted
pumpkin whenever it hears the word
“industrial-groups,” and ( b ) Dr. Evatt
who, the champion of the rights of
minorities and free speech for everybody,
even treacherous Moscow agents, is faced
with the fact that his own A.L.P. branch
is supporting unions which expel members
who refuse to bow the knee and dare to
speak out of turn.
This, however, may turn out a minor
problem beside the issued raised in Vic-
toria, where Mr. Frank Crean was purple
with rage because the party had provided
him with no answers to hurl at the framers
of awkward election questions about the
means-test. Mr. Calwell in the midst of
his riposte found his sword knocked side-
ways by an interjection from no less a
person than Senator Kennedy, the ex-
federal-secretary, who interjected that
caucus had not endorsed the means-test,
and added; “I feel we will be haunted by
this policy for a number of years.”
"Margins'* in Queensland
When the decision of the Queensland In-
dustrial Court granting increased mar-
gins to tradesmen working under the
State Mechanical Engineering award was
announced, Mr. Monk, of the A.C.T.U.,
hailed it as evidence that the Queensland
court had broken the “freeze” imposed
by the Federal Arbitration Court. That
was far from being the case.
In the first place the Federal court has
not imposed a general freeze on margins ;
it has merely deferred until November
consideration of the marginal claims of
the metal-trades unions, at the same time
intimating that this doesn’t preclude
other organisations from approaching the
court in the meantime. In point of fact
considerable increases were granted last
week to certain classes of professional
officers of the N. S. Wales public service,
whose claims were considered on their
merits. This appears to be the principle
applied by the Queensland court in arriv-
ing at its judgment.
Discussing the argument that margins
should have increased on a percentage
basis during the last few years* keeping
step with the basic wage, Mr. Dwyer,
one of the three members of the court,
said that this concept had been rejected
by an overwhelming weight of authority
by industrial tribunals in Australia and
had never been accepted by the Queens-
land court. He had no doubt that it
would not be regarded as reasonable if
occasion arose to reduce the basic wage.
Mr. Dwyer said that the argument that
margins should be adjusted upwards be-
cause of the reduction in their value
caused by the diminished purchasing-
power of money had also been almost
universally rejected—most recently by
the Federal court in the metal-trades
case: —
The basic wage is awarded not for the
value of the work done but to provide a
standard of living below which no employee
should be expected to go. A margin is
granted in recognition of the value of the
work expected of an employee because of
his skill or other reason, and accepted by the
employer. It does not follow, then, that a
margin must be linked to the same factors
which are taken into account in fixing the
basic wage, so far as the value of money
is concerned.
Mr. Dwyer added that employees
under awards were not the only persons
affected by falling money-values, and an
award based on those two arguments
would lead to price-increases which would
add to' the difficulties of people on fixed
incomes, who had nothing to protect
them against such changes. The court
had to consider economic consequences
in these matters. Mr, Harvey expressed
similar views to Mr. Dwyer on “the twin
arguments” and said that in his view
“margins could only be determined on
an arbitrary basis, after full consideration
of the circumstances of each case.”
Applying this principle, the court found
that margins in the Mechanical Engineer-
ing Award had increased by only 4s. since
1947, while those for a host of other
awards had risen by sums ranging from
10s. to 325. “On the basis of compara-
tive skills, the time has arrived when the
metal tradesmen should receive greater
recognition.”
The court therefore granted an extra
18s. a week to skilled tradesmen, 9s. to
semi-skilled and 6s. to unskilled workers.
The Queensland judgment may be of
use to the A.C.T.U. in pressing the
claims of some of its member-unions, but
it gives no support to a claim for a
general increase in margins.
Through Communist Eyes
It isn’t often that it is worth while report-
ing verbatim Comrade Sharkey, general
secretary and head of the Communist
Party of Australia. But he made a classic
speech at the nineteenth congress of the
Communist Party of the U.S.S.R. —while
he was there he was supposed to be get-
ting health treatment. It has belatedly
come to hand in a special “Hansard” of
the occasion, printed by the Soviet
Government and sold in Sydney at
eighteenpence:
Comrades, it is with greatest joy that I
. bring greetings to your history-making Nine-
teenth Congress from»a far outpost of the
world-wide front of the struggle for peace;
from the Communist party and the progres-
sive people of Australia. ( Loud and pro-
longed applause.)
The mighty Fifth Five-year Plan opens up
perspectives for the still more brilliant future
of the peoples of the glorious. Soviet Union.
I have listened with the keenest attention to
the reports of the upsurge of Soviet agri-
culture [Note: Malenkov, by the way,
moaned at its recession and disorganisation].
In startling contrast, in our country fierce
capitalist exploitation of the soil, the ups
and downs of the market, the unchecked
ravages of floods, fires and droughts, the
consequent ruin of the farmers, have created
a situation where 8,000,000 inhabitants of an
entire continent are mo longer assured of
adequate food supplied! Such is capitalism!
How fortunate you are to have the great v
Stalin plan for the remaking of nature.
This brilliant idea, the outcome of Stalin’s
genius, indicates how we, too, must one
day remake the Australian continent.
{Applause.)
Less than a year ago the Australians
were experiencing a great boom. Now there
is economic chaos and mass unemployment.
Allow me to quote the headlines from our
party press, which I have just received,
namely, “Hungry Men Demand Jobs,”
“Dismissed Workers Refuse To Leave
Factory,” “Unions to Resist Wage-cuts.”
The present rulers have nothing to offer
better than war and fascising .the country
at the behest of Wall-Street.
They will not succeed in these anti-
popular designs because the great inter-
national camp of peace and democracy is
stronger than they are, and because at its
head stands the great leader and teacher of
the toilers of all countries, Comrade Stalin.
C Applause.)
Long May Comrade Stalin Live! ( Loud
Applause.)
May Comrade Stalin’s genius illuminate
the path to the victory of world peace and
progress. ( Long and prolonged applause
growing into an ovation. All rise!)
Comrade Stalin didn’t live long, but
Australia is fortunate to still own Com-
rade Sharkey, who might have been
expected, from his own accounts of his
country, to prefer Siberia. He was for-
tunately with us to stand for West Syd-
ney in the Federal elections and to urge
the electors to give their first preferences
throughout the country to Dr, Evatt.
Ceylon's Immigrants
“Stromlo” : In spite of efforts by all
Communists and some churchmen to sug-
gest that Asians froth at the mouth on
mention of Australia’s policy of restricted
migration, few Asian countries either
notice that policy or complain of it. It
is perhaps unfortunate that it is known
as “White Australia,” as the phrase lends
color (if that is the discreet word) to
incorrect suggestions that as white people
we feel some sense of superiority over
colored races.
The fact remains that Asian nations
acknowledge our right to admit whom we
choose into our own country, and reserve
similar rights themselves. Ceylon is the
most obvious example, its trouble with
Indian migrants who have entered the
country illegally having extended over
many years and innumerable conferences.
The latest Indo-Ceylon agreement on the
subject has provoked a series of recom-
mendations which have now been sent
to India. They were made by a Minis-
terial committee of which Sir Oliver
Goonetilleke was chairman, and they pro-
pose that only citizens of Ceylon by
descent or registration, and those whose
applications for registration as citizens
are being considered, shall be eligible for
employment in Ceylon.
A Government official has stated that
the Government has no intention of
differentiating between Indians and other
non-nationals. The main purpose of the
recommendations, he said, was to find
employment for Ceylonese. The situa-
tion indicates sufficiently the difficulties
which can arise from unrestricted or
unguarded immigration. It is an answer
to any critics in Australia or in Asia of
Australia’s firm and well-founded policy.
The Petrov Commission
From an onlooker:
The Petrov Commission, which sat in No. 1
High Court, Darlinghurst, Sydney, for half-a-
day last week, is not Sydney’s cup of tea at all.
It is well-bred, courteous, low-voiced. No
judicial repression of the exuberants; there
aren’t any exuberants yet. There is no judicial
humor, but Mr. Justice Owen seemed somehow
to infuse into the air of the court a sort of
courteous bonhomie.
Of course, the matter is in. its earliest stage.
Only the foundations are being put down,
but with meticulous care. The legal masons
work with detached and unhurried exactitude,
making sure that everything fits—that there will
be no weaknesses in the basic structure, no
holes through which doubt can creep about
the qualifications of translators and the inter-
preter, about the fairness of the hearing in every
minute detail, about the carefully dovetailed
arrangements which will, as a general rule, make
it possible for any person whose name is men-
tioned to know what is to be said sufficiently
long before it is said to enable him to defend
himself at once.
The scope of the material of the inquiry is not
yet apparent. The care and detail with which it
is being discussed is apt, paradoxically, to
leave a feeling in the listener who is not atten-
tive that it doesn’t involve matters of great
importance or magnitude. Whether it does
remains to be seen; but it certainly be
extensive, and it can scarcely 'be extensive
without throwing a vital light on the most
important matter involved—the complete unveil-
ing of Soviet system and method in the cold
war in Australia, which is the paramount know-
ledge that all Intelligence services desire to have.
The essential facts by which the commission’s
weight and importance may be assessed at
present may be skeletonised somewhat as
follows:
The Commonwealth Government has thought
it worth while to bring from England, and
keep here for a long time, the leading interpreter
of Russian in the English-speaking world.
The evidence of Mr. and Mrs. Petrov will
occupy several days, and will relate exclusively
to Australia. They have a great deal of infor-
mation, which may be used elsewhere and
which Mr. Windeyer described as “very inter-
esting and important to the United Kingdom
and, I think, important in some ways to the
whole free world, though not relevant to this
inquiry,” but which will not be heard here.
The persons referred to in the documents
handed over by Petrov are made up as follows:
Of the first 30 grouped, about half of them
are referred to in the notes of Sadovnikov,
Petrov’s predecessor; the other half, who had
Russian code-names, were referred to in other
Russian documents.
Another group of about 30 are referred to by
Moscow by name and not in code, in terms
which show they were of interest to Moscow
as sources, potential or actual, of informa-
tion. In some cases, it is represented by coun-
sel, they may have been willing informants;
in others in the dark as to how they were
being used.
Eight persons were mentioned in Moscow
letters by name in a way suggesting that Moscow
believed them to be members of the Security
Service. Mr. Windeyer said: “We feel it is
not necessary to mention these names. Moscow
might be right.” Still another eight are men-
tioned in terml which did not make it clear
that they were of agent-interest to Moscow.
They are a sort of twilight group, and whether
they are brought forward will largely depend
on whether anything transpires in evidence
to make them of importance. *
There are a few persons not mentioned in
documents about Whom evidence may be given
by Petrovs *
In all, about 70 persons, and possibly more,
come into the story in such a way as to suggest
that their activities will need inquiry. But in
summary, “many, and indeed most, of the
persons whose names are mentioned in the
documents, or are relevant in some other way,
are persons who were of interest to Moscow,
but whp did not do anything seriously wrong.”
The general basic evidence of the Petrovs
during their first turn in the witness-box
will be about their own records, duties as
M.V.D. agents, Moscow correspondence methods
and methods of recruiting agents—matters “in
some ways more important perhaps than the
details concerning the participation or non-
participation of particular individuals.” To
hear it will take “some days.”
Thereafter the sensational Press may feel
that it has come into its own, for at the end
they will deal with the first matter touching
local “contacts with the Russian espionage sys-
tem —the authorship of Documents H and J,
which are in English, the contents not of
much importance, but . . . suitable as a
starting-point for the main investigation.” These 1
were written by ’two Australians, who have
Moscow-coded names, and were supplied to
M.V.D. men in the Embassy and the authors
will be brought to the witness-box. Apart
(j Continued on next page)


[For electoral matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
from these two documents pinned to them,
they may have to find answers of interest on
other matters.
Mr. Windeyer said in Sydney that “I shall,
I think, establish quite convincingly that Exhibit
J, which I believe to be quite fairly described
as a ‘farrago of facts, falsity and filth’, was
written by an Australian Communist in the
Russian Embassy, and I will show who he
was.” But the persons libelled in these docu-
ments need not worry. Their names will not
be given. Neither will any other innocent or
temporarily misguided person who feels it his
duty to come forward to supplement the
evidence given in the inquiry with knowledge
of his own which he believes may help in
rooting out a system which is menacing the
security of his country.
Judging from its beginning the commission
will take every care to preserve his good name
and his dignity.
POLITICAL POINTS
In a special declaration by the Depart-
ment of Labor, bees have been mad© bona
fide travellers in Victoria by classifying
them as livestock. Previously they were
not allowed to change their abode on
Sundays, much to the indignation of the
army of itinerant bee-keepers who follow
the blossom as it comes out from one
end of the State to the other.
• •
It was just like old times in Sydney last
week —train - breakdowns, bus - strikes,
power-house stoppages, blackouts and a
waterfront strike. Those who could
remember 1946-49 were wondering
whether perhaps “Labor” had won the
election after all, However, a busman
dispelled this doubt when he announced
that he and his mates would have pulled
the trouble on sooner but for fear of
embarrassing “Labor” at the election.
The Bunnerong affair is senseless unless
it is taken as part of the Communist plan
to disrupt industry through pinpricking
local disputes. Of the 23 unions repre-
sented at the power-house, 18 have
accepted an agreement negotiated with
the Electricity Commission, and it has
also been endorsed by the Trades and
Labor Council, Despite this, shop com-
mittees have managed to impose a ban
on overtime and maintenance work —
which means, as far as the public is con-
cerned, almost inevitable blackouts.
On Thursday, after the Industrial Com-
mission had ordered the strikers to lift
the ban, a mass-meeting decided to do
so —for seven days, in the course of
which the dissident unions are authorised
to negotiate for a better agreement.
The dispute is really a squabble be-
tween union officials and unofficial shop-
committees, with the public, as always,
the victim.
• o
The wharf strike, another criminally
senseless stunt, threw the port of Sydney
idle when the Waterside Workers’
Federation called its members off every
ship in the harbor, with the nonchalant
message that they wouldn’t be back till
Tuesday. Between 30 and 40 vessels were
affected. Reason for the holdup: the
Stevedoring Industry Board had left eight
men off the roster because they had
walked off a job the previous day and the
board wanted to interview them,
• •
It isn’t very often that recounts turn
the tables on the apparent winner, and
this election’s batch didn’t provide any
exceptions. Peter Howson picked up
only three more votes in Fawkner, leav-
ing “Labor” member Bourke the winner
by 118 votes. In GHffith the only effect
was to put retiring Liberal Berry further
behind. “Labor’s” Alderman Coutts was
211 in the lead on the first count; the
recount pushed him on to 232.
• •
“Labor” challenged the result in Law-
son (N.S.W.), where Country-party mem-
ber Fades retainted the seat by 278 after
the distribution of the preferences of
Independent candidate Bourke. The
complaint was that 65 votes cast in the
Gilgandra subdivision were in the same
handwriting. The Deputy Electoral Offi-
cer for N. S. Wales visited Dubbo to
discuss the matter with the returning-
officer, and it was announced that the
latter was convinced that no error had
occurred and, as a recheck had been
made before the distribution of prefer-
ences, a complete recount was not
warranted.
• •
Final count in Wannon gave the seat
to Donald McLeod by a margin of 17.
Close, but by no means the narrowest
win for a Federal seat. That record is
held by Ballaarat, where in 1919 David
McGrath, who had held the seat for six
years, lost to E. T. Kerby by one vote
in a poll of 27,000. Kerby didn’t hold it
long. There was a by-election seven
months later and Ballaarat went back to
McGrath, to stay in his grip for another
14 years,
• t,
J. G. Arthur sought leave to address
the A.L.P. conference on reasons why
he should be readmitted to the party.
Leave and readmission refused, general-
secretary Anderson saying that the exe-
cutive had decided “that he should be
allowed to continue for some further time
outside the party.” Anderson said that
the question was: “Did Mr. Arthur con-
duct himself according to the Labor
tradition? He did not.” Well, Joe was
certainly a bit careless.
• •
Did Federal caucus endorse abolition
of the means-test? Calwell says yes;
Kennelly says no
• •
Stirred to words if not to action by
the Manly bus strike, Transport Minister
Wetherell threatened the Strikers with a
fate worse than death—the handing-over
of the buses to private enterprise. Neither
the busmen nor the long-suffering public
were impressed.
• •
“Labor” politicians are forever com-
plaining about the rise in interest rates
on Commonwealth loans, yet “Labor”
Premiers are partly responsible for the
increase. Year after year, at Loan Coun-
cil meetings, they have fixed “targets”
far beyond the capacity of the market.
THE "HORROR STRETCH"
A natural result of this would be for
investors to hold back, hoping foi a
higher rate of interest.
• •
On May 27 Adelaide “News” had the
headline; “Latest Poll Tips Labor Win.”
On May 31 it commented:
Time will not be available between the
election of the new Senate and the expiry
of the House of Representatives elected on
Saturday for the Government to attempt to
break a deadlock by a double disollusxon*
ment.
Well, someone seems to have had a
disollusionment within four days.
• •
Fraser, “Labor” M.H.R. for Eden-
Monaro, complained at the declaration of
the poll that the Liberal party had spent
£20,000 on the election campaign in an
effort to unseat hiih. Impossible. There’s
only one man in Eden-Monaro who rates
Fraser as high as that—and he’s not a
Liberal.
• •
Senator Kennelly, at the Vic. A.L.P.
conference, which was not quite the
happy get-together hoped for a month
ago:
I feel we are going to be haunted with
this policy for a number of years. I have
no objection to abolition of the means-
test if you can prove to me how it can
be done when you will not tax and will
not risk inflation.
Kennelly seems to have been backing
the wrong side last month. That’s virtu-
ally what the Government was saying.
• •
Cahill has promised his followers that
a bill to amend the liquor laws will be
brought down during the coming term.
He gave no details, but said that the
Minister for Justice had been “exploring
all avenues.” According to the evidence
of the Maxwell Commission there are
some back-lanes and side-streets that
would also justify exploration.
Queensland Industrial Court, which
granted quarterly-adjustment increases
for the September and December, 1953,
quarters, has refused to take similar
action for the March quarter, although
the index-figure for Queensland indi-
cated a shilling rise. The court has also
refused to alter the basic wage.
• •
Whenever there is any whisper of a
wheat surplus a few well-meaning per-
sons at once suggest large contributions
of wheat or flour to starving Asian coun-
ties—usually without specifying whether
the wheatgrowers or the general tax-
payers should carry the burden of their
vicarious generosity v Australia has made
a number of appreciated gifts of that kind
under the Colombo Plan, but Casey,
before going back to Geneva, made it
plain that the general idea did not appeal
to him. He pointed out that rice was far
and away the most important foodstuff
for the vast majority of Asian peoples,
especially those v/ith low consumption
standards. “Many of these peoples,” he
said, “will not eat wheat or flour except
possibly under extreme famine conditions,
and then only with great reluctance.” He
also said that the rice-percentage of food-
grains consumed varied from 70 in
Ceylon to 100 in Indo-China and
Thailand, and that the large fall in wheat
exports from Australia and elsewhere to
India and Pakistan in recent years did
not suggest any severe shortage of wheat
at present.
• •
Jack Lang on the “Labor” party con-
ference in Sydney Town Hall:
... at best a tawdry imitation of the
Parliaments of the Labor Movement which
shaped the destiny of the party for almost
half a century. It is a hand-picked gather-
ing of machine-drilled representatives, the
majority of whom have only the nmst
elementary conception of Labor Party prin-
ciples In earlier days, election to the
A.L.P. executive was regarded as a recog-
nition of talent To-day, it has become
the stepping-off place for preferment. It
is the pork-barrel of the Labor Movement.
That’s telling ’em.
• •
At the mass-meeting of powerhouse
employees in Sydney last week one rank-
and-filer said that “union officials who
take their wages from the workers should
also take their orders from them.” Yet
the same bloke is taking his wages from
the Electricity Commission and refusing
to take his orders (on overtime and main-
tenance) from the commission.
If the principle that those who pay the
wages are entitled to be obeyed were
universally observed there would be no
strikes.
• •
Six thousand bargain-hunters rushed a
Swanston-street emporium the other day
in Melbourne and police had to be called
out to prevent the place being torn to
pieces. Reason: A sale of men’s- and
boy’s-wear damaged by water. And yet
they turned-down Dr. Evatt’s bargain-
counter !
• •
“In the ACT”: Possibly a lot of dis-
appointed independents have felt like
84-year-old J. J. Cusack, who stood once
more for the A.C.T. seat and polled
405 votes. At the declaration of the poll
he suggested that the returning-officer
should be equipped with a magnifying-
glass. “Then he could see the marks on
the ballot-papers for me in those places
where I seemed to have received none,”
he remarked.
• • '
“Floreat”: At a suburban polling-
booth the two party-aides dishing out the
“How to Vbte” cards were kept regu-
larly supplied with fresh ammunition by
a small boy who collected voter’s discards
from where they were thrown just out-
side the door. The boy would bring a
handful of cards to the Lib. canvasser
who would rapidly thumb through them,
extracting his own, the remainder he
sent to his “Labor” counterpart across
the road. If the same degree of co-opera-
tion were practised by the higher-ups of
the parties it might be better for every-
one.
• •
Knowledge of the language is now a
bar to entering the Soviet Republic;
several young Finnish students sought
admission, but when the horrified consul
discovered they could speak Russian he
refused their visas. They should have put
“Blind, Deaf and Dumb” on their pass-
ports.
•- •
Professor McHenry, a visiting Fulbright
lecturer from U.S.A., forecasts that semi-
social home-group meetings will largely
replace election-meetings in halls and
at street-corners. These, he says, are
popular in America; refreshments are
served, and “the relaxed atmosphere has
proved one of the most effective ways of
reaching the swinging voter.” This will
bring a new factor —refreshments —into
the list of things that make the swinging
voter swing—or should it be sway?
• •
Abolition of the Legislative Council
has again been shelved by the N. S. Wales
“Labor” conference, although it is on
the platform of the party. The position
seems to be that the Council was a bad
thing when there were only a few
“Labor” men in it, but now that “Labor
has control and will have control for the
next 18 years” it is a very good institu-
tion. The secretary of the party believes
that “having men with the advantage of
gold passes and their membership of Par-
liament is of considerable value to the
Labor movement.”
• •
Giving the A.L.P. conference “the
facts in the election” the Doc. said that,
taking' the six States and allowing for
uncontested seats, “there is a very clear
and very good majority recorded for
Labor.” He summed-up that the Gov-
ernment had half a mandate and “Labor”
a more-than-half mandate. After that
his supporters will probably be quite sur-
prised to find that the Government com-
mands 64 votes in the House and the
Doc. only 55.
• m
Victoria’s black-coal mine at Won-
thaggi lost £138,000 last year, after
allowing £21,000 for depreciation. Point-
ing out that during the war and the im-
mediate postwar period three million tons
of N. S. Wales coal had had to be brought
by rail at high cost and that the existence
of the State mine saved Victoria from
the necessity of bringing almost double
that quantity overland, the general man-
ager of the mine argues that, all things
considered, the loss is a nominal one.
Perhaps so; but a nominal profit would
be better.
• •
An employee at Brisbane Abattoirs
has complained that officials of the Meat
Industry Employees’ Union have warned
him off the job because he is exceeding
the quota of work fixed by the union. . .


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AS most of the stories —well-intentioned
—printed about cruiser Australia’s
best-known rescue have been off the
beam, let me in with the facts before the
old ship goes.
The Commander wasn’t the only man
to go over on a line —he was accompanied
by about 20 of us, into waves 60ft high.
We got there just as the Sunderland’s
port wing-float ripped off; the wing
dipped, and she lasted only seconds.
The real hero was the aircraft’s wire-
less-operator. We could never have
found them but for his continuous and
cheery signals, on which we d-f.’d our
way through the storm. Typical was one
1 remember: “If you are coming,
for God’s sake get a move on. It’s bloody
cold here!” As we came up, the crew
jumped clear; Sparks went down with
his set.
One unfortunate, struggling for our
rearing bow, got too close in. As the
ship plunged down, the five-ton bower-
anchor caught his head. Another drifted
past the bow, and was lost in the wilder-
ness to starb’d.
Australia was rolling so madly that
we merely had to grab her guard-rails
as she reeled, to be plucked bodily out
of the water when she righted. Those
rails were normally about 20ft. above
waterline.
Once aboard, the survivors, literally
blue, were flaked-out in the ship’s clothes’
drying-room to thaw out. Which, laced
with good R.N. rum, they soon did. —
“Gunner.”
❖ ❖ *
“Jock”: The duties of a municipal
health-inspector are apparently all-
embracing. One such recently reported
to councillors: “A complaint has been
received regarding the sanitary-conditions
and swimming-pool at the nudist-camp,
Bringelly-road. The camp is used at
weekends and holidays, and any inspec-
tion should be made at these times. It
will be necessary for me to be accom-
panied by a senior member of the council,
preferably the Mayor.” Why not inspec-
tion by a bare quorum of council?
“Clooter” (Lond.): Never imagine that
a British Parliament allows itself to be
diverted from the real things of life.
While headlines were full of the situation
in Indo-China, the alleged rift between
Britain and America, the discussions at
Geneva and the railway-strike in the West
Country, the Commons gravely debated
an amendment which, if carried, would
have deprived the little owl of its immun-
ity from shooters, Gravaman of the
charge was that the bird took fledglings,
killed them, put the bodies in the grass,
waited until the worms got to the bodies,
then returned and devoured the worms.
Lady Tweedsmuir, apparently overcome
by such depraved practices, moved to
condemn the little owl. Sir H. Lucas-
Tooth said the farmers regarded the bird
as their enemy. This was denied. Some-
body else said examination of the bird’s
stomach revealed only insects, Mr.
Chuter Ede remarked that the little owl
was not a criminal, merely an eccentric,
and therefore should appeal to the House
of Lords. On that note the amendment
was lost and the House got on to the
less-serious matter of the quality of air
in the Commons.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Bianca”: Train ; two glamorful teen-
agers; Newton’s Law of Motion. Said
one, best college accent: “You must
have had it. You did physics. You know,
when you’re standing up in a bus, and it
stops suddenly, you all lurch forward —
well, that’s Newton’s Law.” The other;
“Don’t be silly! That’s got nothing to
do with it. When the bus stops, you
just naturally shoot over.”
❖ ❖ *
“Capricorn”; “Saturn begins a good
cycle for children on Thursday (after 1
p.m.). Expectant mothers should hang
off until then. F/rgo-folks caught in
street accidents should try to break the
left leg, not the right.” ... Do papers get
their celestial bulletins from the head-
quarters of secret, black and midnight
hags, who, clenching a ballpoint in
withered paws, toss off “Starguides” be-
tween customers for the crystal-ball?
No. The carefully amorphous drivel
which manages to sound so factual is
produced by experts. “Starguides” are
history’s most imbecile advisory bureau ;
even the Delphic Oracle kept a Dorothy
Dix within earshot. “Hitch your wagon
“Break it down, Gerrard. Beethoven didn't intend the Ninth
to be a lullaby.”
to a star” advised Emerson, and else-
where, in a mood of more Bostonian
refinement, “We should spurn the scum*
of the Press.” What would he have made
of Press-advice on how the stars were
pulling? He beat Freud to a good many
truths. He might have seen, in the “Star-
guides’ ” popularity, a sad impotence in
the face of our own lives.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metax”: Our local rag must have
been affected by some items it published
on calendar-reform. The same issue came
out with one page dated May 71.
“Mugga Way”: After the G.-G. had
told the Institute of Metals conference
that he had spent some of his youth in
a humble capacity in their industry, he
added that in 40 years of soldiering he
had had a good deal to do with metals —
at both the dispatching and receiving
ends. Then he recalled being puzzled by
an American general, who had described
one of his colleagues as a “three-metal
man.” Asking for an explanation, Sir
William was told: “Sure, he’s a three-
metal man. Brass on his hat, gold in his
teeth, and lead in his boots!”
♦♦♦ +>
“Baksac”: Newspaper misprints,
howlers (B. 19/5/’54)? In 1952 that
fine English humorist Denys Parsons
produced a book of ’em under the title.
It Must Be True, It was All in the Papers.
One gem had a repeat-action (and per-
haps a modern application); it came from
a New Zealand paper: “By an unfortu-
nate typographical error we were made
to say that the retiring Mr. —— was a
member of the defective branch of the
police force. Of course this should have
read: ‘The detective branch of the police
farce.’ ”
* ❖ *X*
“Mick o’Melbourne”: With the result
of the English Derby, an old story has
come true; that one about the parson’s
wife who saw a shabby-looking man
standing at the corner and, feeling sym-
pathetic, gave him a 10/- note, with the
whispered injunction, “Never say die.”
When she came home that evening the
same shabby chap was waiting for her
with a bundle of notes, which he handed
to her, saying, “Never Say Die, Mum,
won at 10 to 1.” Perhaps the winner of
the Derby was named for this instance,
or is it just a case of intelligent antici-
pation?
❖ ♦♦♦
“Pawang”; The nutritional experts
have been busy in their laboratories for
years making out statistics of how many
calories a manual-worker needs, how
much a brainworker, how much a child
and how much an adult. How do they
account for a man like Bernard Shaw,
who remained intellectually vigorous long
after the age of 90 on a diet of beans and
lettuce, or the old man at Mildura who
recently attained his first century and said
that he lived almost exclusively on meat
and hated greens like poison?
♦♦+ ♦> ♦>
“Nakhoda”: Kids should be allowed
to make their own toys. A grandson of
mine showed me a new toy which had
cost his father £4. It was a jeep perfect
to the last detail, the tyres of real rubber.
A couple of days later it was in ruins.
The finest toy I ever had was a ship I
made myself, I cut lines in the soil of an
empty space in the backyard to represent
the deck of a ship like Drake’s and with
the assistance of some friends buried a
large pole amidships, mounted a yard on
it and bent-on the largest old sheet I
could find in Mother’s linen-cupboard.
It had forestay, preventer-backstay, run-
ners, shrouds, peak-halliards, main-sheet
—in fact, everything. When the wind was
aft she was grand and in a following gale
she was tremendous, but she wasn’t so
good in a head-wind. We sailed several
times round the world in her, visiting
every known port, and we reached the
South Pole before Amundsen. I never
lost interest in her even after she was dis-
mantled to make room for a clothes-line.
♦♦♦
“Howie Wing”: The 1.Q.-system of
testing intelligence has come under fire
from experts because it’s been found
that one’s quotient, previously thought
fixed, can change. People from “emotion-
ally untranquil” homes tend to register
higher scores the longer they are removed
from the “problem situation.”' In other
words, you do better if you’ve nothing
on your mind—a conclusion not sur-
prising to the ordinary person, but dis-
tressing to those psychologists who
assumed that intelligence could be con-
sidered in a vacuum, without reference
to drive. What I.Q. professes to measure
is ability to work without the will to
work—a quantity which, if it could be
measured, would always be zero.
❖
“Villefair”; Strange that modern mem-
bers of the Sex never seem to get the
traditional indisposition of their grand-
mothers —a headache. These days the
complaint is always an “attack of
migraine.” The word haunts me: girls
in trains tell one another of their suffer-
ings at its hands; frustrated-looking
porteresses bemoan its presence to each
other as they halt me at the barrier until
a rumble tells them my train has gone;
girls in shops leave me standing as they
depart to take aspirin to disperse its
attack. So far, it hasn’t usurped my
wifes’ occasional old-fashioned common-
or-garden headache. Recently I felt
moved to remark: “Every other woman
in Australia seems to get migraine; but
you never do.” She looked at me pity-
ingly. “If I bought every newfangled
breakfast-food they advertised,” she
said, “you’d be broke in a fortnight.”
NURSES MILITANT
“Nurses at Sydney Royal Prince Alfred Hos-
pital have threatened not to wear uniform if
nursing standards are lowered.”
Must nurses doff their uniforms
To keep their nursing-standard high ?
Let boards placate the rebel-swarms
Or in the radiations die
Of beauty’s X-rays on the march
With no protective shields of starch !
House-gowns, suits and evening-dress
A tid permanently-waving heads
Add to the hours’ becomingness,
And nightgowns are well-matched with
beds
When wards so often must be made
Into a pannequin-parade;
But let us hear of no extremes
Where Christian patients close their
eyes
And wonder, when they wake from
dreams
In an Islamic paradise,
Whether... .Such cruelty! But still
The thought’s enough to make me ill.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
KEY-NOTE
“Efficiency experts say that girl typists like
working with the boss because there’s always
the chance of marrying him.” —Sydney
“Sun-Herald.”
She loves to work beside the boss.
Her golden, marcelled curls to toss;
Her tantalising eau de rose
To tease his fancy via his nose.
A bout his desk she weaves a spell,
And takes dictation rather well,
To justify the fond, if slim.
Belief that she’ll dictate to him!
* N.S.W,
P.O.M.C.


THE original phlegmatic type as classi-
fied by the psychologists. Noisy was
not to be jolted from his normal aplomb
and taciturnity even by feverish routine
of an R.A.A.F, personnel-centre in Eng-
land. Not so phlegmatic was the passing
British flight-lieutenant who observed
that, of the 100 men on parade. Noisy
was the solitary wearer of a greatcoat.
After a moment of apoplectic silence the
flight-looey bawled: “No. 6! Why are
you wearing that greatcoat?” It took
Noisy a good three seconds to voice his
reply, which was as free of any note of
insolence as it was leisured. He said,
simply; “I reckon it’s gonna rain,” Even
as the reply came Pluvius showed his
“Still doodling?”
sympathy with the laconic on£; a second
later Noisy was the only man on parade
protected from the torrent—“ Mon-
morency ”
% ♦♦♦
“Wandana”: Not only the old rope of
ships has had commercial value (B.
19/5/’34); when hangings were frequent,
Jack Ketch found ready demand tor sec-
tions of his rope—valued not so much as
an interesting relic, but for healing of
certain ailments, the rope being either
placed round the body to cure rheuma-
tism or soaked in boiling water and the
mixture drunk. Tasmanian newspapers
of early last century .mention the rush
of spectators (especially women) to
secure pieces of .rope fresh from the drop
at so much a length. Indeed I notice in
a re£ent article on England s present
executioner (a pub-keeper when not
otherwise engaged) that the halters he
uses are not allowed to be disposed of
to collectors; so presumably there’s still
a demand.
* <4 *
“W.P.T.”: Sydney has sundry splen-
did natural sites for open-air theatres
which could be made as good as the
famed Hollywood Bowl. Cooper Park,
Woollahra, is one ideal site; even better
is that of Parramatta Park known for
years as the Amphitheatre, This section
was once the Governor’s garden; part of
old Government House still stands on
the hill overlooking the bowl, while a
short distance away is the remains of the
old bath-house in which the vice-regal (
family took their daily tub, the water
later being sent down to the bowl’s vege-
table-garden. Katoomba (Blue Moun-
tains) also has an ideal spot in its Kings-
ford-Smith Park; a small stage has, in
fact, been built at the bottom, but it isn’t
used nearly as much as it might be. One
of the finest sights I’ve seen was a Carols-
by-Candlelight service there a few years
back.
♦*4 _ *X*
“Kros”; News of Cheops and his
“celestial ghost-ship” recalls that another
of the ancient Pharaohs, Pepi 11, reigned
for 90 years—the longest reign on record.
The old boy got away to a flying-Start by
coming to the throne when he was four.
Nearest approach to his effort —in more
historical times, anyway—was that of
Louis XIV; close on 73 years. The
Grand Monarque was also just out of
swaddling-clothes when he became, as he
was later to describe himself, “the
State.”
*❖ % *
“Nunk”: Anyone finding an oboe-
recital tedious because of the “impossi-
bility of sounding passionate on an oboe”
(B. 9/6/54) might end by cursing a violin
for raising emotions it could not satisfy.
Admittedly, one could hardly do any-
thing to an oboe that would cause it to
have twins ; and a series of oboe-recitals
or harpsichord-recitals would eventually
separate those who go to a concert to
hear music from those who go to occupy
publicly the couch of love.
♦>
“Alma”: My prize for black coffee
(B. 5/3/’54) goes to that made in some
parts of Germany and Austria. A lidded
container fits neatly over the individual
cup; freshly-ground coffee goes in this,
boiling water is poured over, the lid is
put on and the liquid allowed to seep
through the strainer into the cup. A
baffling attachment when met at first in a
cafe, but the result is excellent. As for
white coffee, Italy’s cappuccini is equalled
only by their chianti. Rich and beauti-
My flavored when the creamy froth on
top of the tall glass m winch t. is cor-
**ved /
c.nnamon “d Powdered chocolate it
reaches ambrosial heights,
* $ *
“Bo”: Climax to the Haydn festival
in Austria has been the restoration to his
body of the composer’s head. Two days
after his funeral in a Vienna churchyard
in 1809 the head was stolen by a couple
of officials who sought from a study of
its configuration and bumps to test the
theories of Dr, Gall, founder of
phrenology. Their crime wasn’t dis-
covered for 11 years. Then Prince
Esterhazy, for whose forbear. Prince
Nicolaus, Haydn had toiled for 28 years
as composer and Master of the Orchestra,
had the body disinterred for removal
to Eisenstadt, site of the Esterhazy
estate. Apparently there was smart
“ I'll say they're powerful !”
detective work, for the culprits were
found and confessed. They returned a
skull, but from another body, a decep-
tion which would never have been dis-
covered but for a melodramatic death-
bed repentance of one of the officials,
who willed the true Haydn skull to the
museum of the Vienna Friends of Music,
which for years fought a protracted law-
suit with the Esterhazy family over its
ownership. Even now there must always
remain a doubt as to whether the skull
just honored is really that of Haydn.
One of the thieves could have rung the
changes on the other.
“Swelpme”: While working “mates”
with a newly-arrived Italian I sneezed.
Morgandi immediately said something
that sounded like “Sal-yute-ay! ” Several
days later he sneezed. I grinned and shot
back at him “Sal-yute-ay!” He beamed
all over his jovial dial.
“Grart-see-ah,” he replied.
I knew that was “Thank
you,” so concluded the
“Sal-yute-ay” business was
the equivalent of our “God
bless you,” Recently I was
in the local fruitshop; the
Italian owner and his wife
were engaging in their cus-
tomary habit of passing
asides in Italiano. Suddenly
the man sneezed. Without
thinking I gave him Mor-
gandi’s “Sal-yute-ay! ” He
wheeled quickly, surprise
all over his face. “Grart-
see-ah,” he acknowledged.
Then, as though by delayed
action, a thought seemed to
strike him. I shall always
remember the expression on
his face, and the look
on his wife’s. No doubt
I should have explained that
I hadn’t really understood a
word of what they’d been saying ; but
I confess to a sadistic glee in bidding
them “Bonna Sarah” as I marched out
with my bananas.
*X* *X* *X*
“Temp. Exile”: At the Travellers’ Club
in London I was introduced to a young
English barrister. Charming bloke —
morning-coat, striped-pants; homburg
and gloves on the seat beside him. He was
somewhat pontifically declaring to my
host that the increase in London juvenile
crime called for stern measures, and noted,
with approval, the case of a county magis-
trate who recently ordered a whipping.
To me he said, “That, no doubt, would
not astonish you, sir.” I gaped at him.
“Well,” he said, seeing my incomprehen-
sion, “you use the birch in your jails,
do you not?”
&
“F.S.”: Reported from Copenhagen
that three paintings in the Ordrup Gal-
lery previously attributed to Toulouse-
Lautrec have befen found to be by
Conder. Conder worked in Paris in the
’nineties and was a friend and admirer
of the aristocratic French cripple, so its
highly likely he was influenced by him
as he was influenced by Watteau and so
many others. There was, though, a solid
■ basis to his painting, acquired when he
worked with Tom Roberts, Fred McCub-
bin and Streeton at the Eaglemont Camp
near Melbourne. The Yarraside National
Gallery has two of his pictures: “Spring-
time, Heidelberg” and “Blue Waters of
Algeciras.” He was born in London,
a descendant of the sculptor Roubiliac,
and came to Sydney in 1883. His first
success was at the Royal Art Society’s
show of 1888, when the Sydney National
Gallery bought his “Departure of s.s.
Orient.”
❖
“Heresone”: For the harrow-winding
streets stakes I nominate Gympie (Q.).
-In its early days miners’ shacks crowded
in on the narrow tracks which followed
the contours of Deep Creek and the Mary
River, zigzagged up and down the steep
hills and wound among the shafts and
mullock-dumps. The miners have gone,
and their tracks have become streets,
nicely paved with stone, but still fol-
lowing the original routes. Even the main
street suggests a Big Dipper, The rest of
the town seems to have been laid out on
the hospitable principle that the visitor
from outside, once in, should never be
able to find his way out.
* ❖ ❖
“Melbn”; Despite the tragedy of the
housing shortage our village has been
getting great joy out of one building pro-
ject. Following fanfares in the local
paper the foundations of our first prefab-
ricated house were started. Then it was
announced that the miracle of the magic
•beanstalk would be enacted on a certain
Thursday—the dwelling would be com-
plete and ready for occupation, apart
from interior decorations, in 6hrs. 40min.
Cranes, tractors and mechanical equip-
ment were assembled and masses of
fibrous-plaster were poured on to the
allotment. Bets were laid in the pub,
and at the due time everybody left his
grog and repaired to the site. Then a
mysterious hitch occurred. That was five
weeks ago. We’re still waiting.
$ ♦♦♦
“Horncastle”: Words that may go
down to posterity —at least in a Pymble
(Sydney) household. The gardener, a
sixty-niner, single, lazy, a scamp, and the
family pet, occasionally disappeared on
benders, returning after a few-days’ hiatus
contrite, chastened, stony-broke and a
more conscientious worker. But recently
he vanished for three mysterious weeks,
at the end of which a telegram from the
far-west drifted in to the wondering
Pymble home. It contained the succinct
and evocative appeal “Send six pounds.
In custody.”
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Artohol”: Gilding the swill-trough!
Some uninhibited people have face-lifted
a Sydney pub. First, the bar-ceiling was
repainted an orchidaceous color, called, I
believe, “hot-pink.” Pleasant, like drink-
ing under a tulip-field. But the atmos-
phere has now been further inflamed with
a couple of sizzling acres of red carpet.
So raucously do ceiling and carpet yell
defiance at each other that even steel-
grey businessmen are heard muttering
shocked aesthetic criticism. Perhaps the
next symptom of the sou’-east States’
guilt-complex about beer will be for pubs
to echo the plush vulgarity of old-time
bawdy-houses.
ALTERNATIVES
and why was Garth wearing such an
agonised look V’-Fram a short-story.
She might have nagged
Him until she'd dragged
Him off to a symphony-concert;
The moke he’d backed
Had it fatally lacked
Some voltage, becoming a gone
cert.” ?
Homing quite late
With a woozy gait.
Had he skittled some much-prized
pott’ry?
Or was it ’cause
The damn’ ticket was
One dff first-prize in the lott ry ?
Again, you see,
It’s possible he
Was regist’ring white-hot emotion
Because, feeling bad.
He carelessly had
Mistaken some lotion for potion.
It’s likely, quite,
That his daughter might
Have announced she’d pranged the
jalopy,"
Though it could be
That the calm blue sea
Held been fishing in came up choppy.
Had razor slipped,
Got his face all chipped
As he dolled himself up for his
wedding ?
Or guest-house room
He’d found chill as a tomb
With cricket-ball lumps in the
bedding ?
That anguished phiz
Could be due to his
Doing in cold blood a fiver;
Most likely, though,
He’d just heard the so-
And-so traffic cop s: “Pull in there,
DRIVER ! ”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Mrs, We of the Never-Never Gunn
passed her 84lh milestone last week in
the old stone house in Hawthorn, Mel-
bourne, to which she returned when her
husband (“Maluka”) died on Elsey
station more than half-a-century ago.
Her two books have sold 300,000 copies;
one signed edition of her first helped to
supply Hermannsburg Mission with a
water-supply. Robertson and Mullens
are issuing limited editions of 1000
signed copies of both books to celebrate
her birthday.
9 9
“Old Dig”: Robert Lew’s president-
generalcy of the Methodist Conference
(B. 2/6/’54) rang a bell. Shepherding in
Katoomba (N.S.W.) not long after the
Armistice, he dropped into our R.S.L.
meeting ; sat down quietly, pulled out
the makings, and rolled a fag. From that
moment he was set, and remained a good
cobber during his ministry there. Reply-
ing to the president’s welcome to the
meeting, in which he was referred to as
“one of us,” Lew said with a grin that
the term reminded him of the troopship
which brought him home. In it were two
tough Diggers, one of them accused of
killing a gendarme. v The padre visited
them daily, and waited at the gangway in
Melbourne to bid farewell. The prisoners
came down, edged by bayonets, and the
murderer halted. “Well, so-long Padre,”
he said, shooting out his hand. “You’ll
do us —just like one of ourselves.”
Lusby likeness of STAN CHRISTIAN,
director of the recently-established
Malaria Control School at Minj, in the
New Guinea highlands.
Though Diggers (Mark Middle East)
may not have met a gentleman named
Sir William F. Dickson, he was com-
fortingly with them all right—boss of the
Desert Air Force.' Earlier he’d com-
manded two groups of Fighter Command
in Britain, earlier still had been a test-
pilot, and before that flew in the infant
Royal Navy Air Service (D.S.O. and
three “mentions” in War I). The other
day he was elevated to his Service’s
highest rank—Marshal of the R.A.F.
9 9
An expert on grasses who has planted
himself round western Queensland for
some years, S. L. Everist represented
Australia at the 1952 International Grass-
land Congress in the U.S. More recently
he’s been spraying brigalow from aero-
planes. Next month he’ll take-up
appointment as Queensland Government
Botanist.
9 9
“F.T.M.”: Gone on in Melbourne, at 76,
Ross Ibbotson Dalton Mallam, judge bf the
Supreme Court of the Northern Territory from
1928 till 1933, when he retired through ill-
health and left the tropics. Bom in London,
educated at St. Paul’s School, he landed in
South Australia in 1902, practised as a solicitor
till 1910, and thereafter at Darwin. A stickler
for correctness, he became a bogy-man to the
Administrative authorities, especially in poking
clever fun at defects in the ordinances which
amended or replaced South Australian law when
the Commonwealth took over the Territory.
Elevated to the Bench, Judge Mallam exem-
plified the wise restraint of its traditions. His
reading was immense. He could cope with
writings in Greek, Latin and French, got along
well enough with German, and assiduously kept
abreast of contemporary English and American
authors. He issued privately two collections of
quotations and observations of his own on /
all sorts of subjects.
His family connections included a grand-
father, Charles Ross, who, as chief of the
Parliamentary staff of London “Times,” was
Father of the Commons’ Press-gallery, and an
uncle, C. H. Ross, who edited “Judy” and
invented the formerly well-known big-nosed
character “Ally Sloper.” His mother was a
miniature-painter who won an international
competition for a ceramic picture. The De
Purys of Yering, who helped found wine-
growing in Victoria, are cousins.
I was Mallam’s associate in Darwin; among
his papers now in my possession is an envelope
addressed by Charles Dickens to Mallam’s great-
aunt, Georgina Ross, who refused a marriage
proposal by the novelist.
Allan Vickers, Australia’s original Fly-
ing Doctor, is in London ofiering his
knowledge towards the development of
an Empire service, taking in India, Paki-
stan, Africa, the West indies and other
interested (countries. He has know-how
to spare. Born at Caniambo (Vic.) in
1901, he became Flying Doctor at Clon-
curry (Q.) in 1930, crossed to
(W.A.) in 1934, and flew medicinally as
well as being land-bound M. 0., quaran-
tine-officer, protector of aborigines at
Port Hedland and warden of the Pilbarra
mining-field from 1935 to 1940. He got
a Nuffield grant recently to go to Lon-
don, because he reckons that city is the
ideal centre for his present dream.
9 9
Knights all;
K.B.E.
Dudley Williams, descendant on his mother’s
side of James Milson, North Sydney’s first
settler. His father was a solicitor; son, immedi-
ately on graduating in law from Sydney Uni-
versity in War I, went to England and enlisted
in the Royal Field Artillery (M.C., two “men-
tions”). On return he was associate to Cullen,
C.J., went into practice as a barrister, and has
been on the High Court Bench since 1940.
Alexander McEwin, early a farmer, son of a
pioneer settler of the Blyth (S.A.) district, made
his mark as a wheatgrower and breeder of
Merinos. Northern Districts rep. in the S.A.
Legislative Council for 20 years, now Minister
of Health and Mines and Chief Secretary. He
repped for his State at rifle-shooting. Now
bowls.
Geoffrey Walch, Tasmania’s war-time Director
of Civil Defence, member of the island’s oldest
publishing-house, and widely-interested business-
man.
Kt.
Alexander Murphy, M.D. of Sydney Uni-
versity, M.C. of Wilhelm’s. Lately Professor
of Medicine at Brisbane University, now
president of the R.A.C.P.
lan Clunies-Ross, C.5.1.R.0.’s chairman. He
took his Doctorate of Veterinary Science at
Sydney University, went back professor of the
science (1940-46) and in between did a deal of
research into tropical diseases in London, Cam-
bridge and Tokyo.
Herbert Schlink, chairman of Sydney’s Royal
Prince Alfred since 1934, noted gynaecologist,
lecturer in the subject for eight years at Sydney
University.
John Soundy, Tasmanian M.L.C. (for
Hobart) since 1946, Assemblyman there for 20
years before that. In Hobart’s City Council
four terms as mayor, the last of eight-years’
duration. Pet enthusiasm —housing.
Arthur Stephenson, to whom the Queen
recently presented the Royal Gold Medal for
Architecture. Belongs to a scholarly family
(father one-time head of Melbourne’s Wesley
College, uncle the same of Brisbane Boys’
Grammar); won M.C. at Dieppe (War I), and
returned to found what is now the largest
architectural firm in Australasia. Many of the
country’s huge modem hospitals sprang from
his drawing-boards.
Arthur Rymill, now in his fourth term as
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor; chairman of directors
of the Bank of Adelaide, of 1 which his father
whs a director, as was his father. Of the well-
known South Australian sporting family; win-
ner, in 1933, of the Australian speedboat cham-
pionship, and, before the War 11 A.I.F. claimed
him, rep. for his State at polo. Lawyer by
trade.
P. G. Taylor, airman second-to-ndne in
pioneering aviation; War II fighter-pilot (M.C.),
co-pilot with Kingsford Smith in the 1934
Pacific crossing, and leader of several other
comparatively recent long-range pioneering
flights.
Alan Stewart Watt, Australian High Com-
missioner in Malaya, rank of Ambassador,
earlier Ambassador to the Soviet Union. N.S.W.
Rhodes man in 1921, he took on law, but has
been practising diplomacy for the past 17 years.
9 9
“Macnell”: Haven’t flown any great
distance with Sir Gordon Taylor, but one
trip from Sydney to Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.) in a flying-boat spoke volumes
for the man’s thoroughness. We left the
Rose Bay mooring-buoy, but, instead of
the expected immediate take-off, stooged
round for some minutes—wind and
small-craft obstructions weren’t right
enough for the skipper. Up at last, and
was talking to Taylor in the body of the
aircraft. Suddenly he peered through a
port—his eyes seemed always to be peer-
ing. “Excuse me a moment. There’s a
bit of black stuff ahead.” He mounted,
to the cockpit, saw the black stuff through
and returned —simply the instinctive re-
action of a lifetime of painstaking flying.
While he was absent, one cove of the
party remarked: “Bit overdone, don’t
. you think? A younger bloke in these
days wouldn’t have worried about a bit
of cumulus.” One reason, perhaps, why
Taylor has always returned, and some of
the “young blokes” haven’t. For my-
self, when we sighted the brown, flood-
swollen river below, there was no doubt
who I’d prefer Ho have landing us.
9 9
“A.G.S.”; Passed on in Perth at 51,
Hendrik Jacobus Coops, late of the
Dutch Merchant Marine, captain in the
Dutch naval reserve, and one of the
most highly decorated naval men of
World War 11. Six countries honored
him —his own, six times ; America, five ,
France, Russia and China once apiece ,
and, from George VI, the George Cioss,
D.S.O. and Bar, George Medal and
D.S.C. At his Buckingham Palace inves-
titure, the King commented; “Very few
men in my own Commonwealth have as
many decorations as you,” Among the
Dutchman’s exploits were the towing of
a British destroyer to safety; sinking of
a surfaced U-boat by shellfire off the
U.S. coast; bringing a badly-damaged
tanker 800 miles, stern-first, into Singa-
pore ; and rescue of American nurses
from a landing-ship under Japanese fire
at Iwo Jima. 111-health compelling retire-
ment from the sea, Captain Coops
migrated after the war to Westralia,
where he was employed in the State
Electricity Commission. His coffin was
covered with the Dutch flag, on which
rested his sword and 20 medals.
• •
Back from nine months’ study-leave
in Europe, composer-conductor Henry
Krips, to again take up the baton in front
of the South Australian Symphony
Orchestra. Krips reckons London has
become the spiritual centre of music in
Europe. His own family has contributed
towards that achievement brother
Joseph is now resident-conductor of the
London Symphony Orchestra,
• •
“X”: A Minister for the Interior
might possibly be last-runner to carry the
Olympic Flame into Melbourne Cricket
Ground on the opening day of the 1956
Games. This won’t be a political gesture
of the organising committee (of which
Kent Hughes happens to be chairman),
but a recognition of the fact that he won
a heat as a hurdler in the Games of 1920.
An alternative to him could be E. H.
Flack (who won the 800 and 1500 metres
flat-races in 1896) or Marjorie Jackson. If
Miss Jackson is given the distinction she
will be the first woman to get it; if Kent
Hughes, he will be the first organising-
committee chairman, not to mention
first Minister of the Interior, to be
selected. An ex-Light Horseman, a
p.-0.-w. poet and a lifelong athlete with
a first-class r ;ord, he is still fit enough
to do a decent distance.
• 9
A hobby of Dr. Walter Woolnough
(of Northbridge, N.S.W.) is learning
foreign languages in his retirement At
78 he’s wrestling with Polish, his 15th ;
since Christmas he has learned Serbian.
Others are French, Spanish, German,
Danish, Russian, Italian, Dutch, Nor-
wegian, Swedish, Portuguese, Finnish,
Czechoslovakian and Fijian. Geological
adviser to the Federal Government from
1927 to 1941, first Professor of Geology
at the Westralian University and in charge
of the first aerial survey made of Aus-
tralian oil-possibilities (1932), the scientist
claims he was the first man to recom-
mend .the Exmouth Gulf region of Aus-
tralia as a possible source of oil.
. 9 9
J. M. Bruxner, buttressed “with a
healthy common law and workers’-com-
pensation practice, was thinking of
applying for till Attorney-General
Sheahan asked him to drop into his
office, wherefrom Bruxner walked out
judge of the N.S.W. District Court. At
43 young for his new office,' Bruxner,
LAW
already in the Militia, got in early with
the Armored Division, and to his chagrin
spent the following five years mainly
occupied in doing little more destructive
than belting trees down in his tanks in
Westralia and Queensland, Which, he
admits, with grin, didn’t do either his
practice or his country much good. The
Armidale School (N.S.W.) produced him,
as it did his father (leader of the State
Country party) and as it is doing for his
son. Hobbies with Law, and works
weekends with golf.
Knocked-back medically for active
service in War 11, Gordon George
hopped-in with Red Cross work instead.
Chairman of the appeals-committee of
the South Australian division of the
society, he now goes on to the executive.
With the State Savings Barik fof the past
30-odd years (systems-ofiicer his present
employment), he ,was president of the
Bank Officials’ Association, and the first
LUCRE
life-member appointed. Accountancy’s
his job ; in fact, he’s State president of
the Australian Society of the clan.
• •
Third time has proved it for C. H.
Webb, a square-shouldered railwayman,
who, after two previous shots, won the
Swan (W.A.) seat from Liberal W.
Graydon. One of the best-known and
busiest identities of Perth Trades Hall,
he will resign the full-time secretaryship
of the Locomotive, Engine Drivers, Fire-
men and Cleaners’ Union and his post of
consumers’ representative on the Perth
Metropolitan Market Trust, though he’ll
probably retain the presidency of the
State A.L.P, Executive till the end of the
year.
» •
Admirals were as often as not soldiers
in the days of Good Queen Bess and later,
so there is some precedent for an Army
officer taking the 300-ton supply-vessel
Vasse to Sydney from Melbourne, where
she’s been refitting. He is Major R.
Tanner, of the Royal Australian En-
gineers, who has been soldier and sailor
off-and-on since he served in New
Guinea. He went to sea as a naval-cadet
at 13, gained his master’s ticket in the
British Merchant Navy, came to Aus-
tralia in 1939 and joined the Army.
• • t
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 80, Alexander Mercer King,
0.8. E., Mayor of Ballarat from 1933 to 1940,
member of the State Health Commission, and
one of the founders and first chairman of the
Country Fire Authority.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 77, William Orr
McKellar, authority on the breed of Corriedale
sheep developed in New Zealand. First president
of the Corriedale Association, and a director
of the Otago “Daily Times.”
At 74, in Melbourne, R. A. White, chairman
of directors of the shoe-making firm bearing
his name —one of the largest in Australia, with
its 52 branches in three States. Well-known
clubman —Athenaeum, Sorrento Golf, the
V.R.C., and oldest member of the Royal Vic-
torian Yacht Club. *
At Newport (Vic.), at 78,-Herbert Armstrong,
for many years Williamstown city councillor.
He was mayor when 75. The St. John Ambu-
lance and local Soccer Association owed much
to his interest.
In Melbourne, at 52, Charles Salis Lloyd,
Victorian artist, He was responsible for most
of the recruiting-signs on Melbourne buses
during World War 11.
In London, at 75, Brigadier-General Stewart
Anderson, Boer War and War I soldier, the first
chief-instructor of artillery in the A.I.F. In
Australia at the inception of compulsory mili-
tary training, seconded from the British Army,
he left for Gallipoli as a brigade-major in First
Division artillery; by 1917, brigadier-general, he
had command of the batteries he had earlier
raised and trained. He was a director of the
Exchange Telegraph newsagency in London at
the end.
At 48, in Melbourne, Albert Raphael Phillips,
noted psychiatrist and superintendent of the
Travancore Development Centre. Resident M.O.
in Brisbane and Rockhampton hospitals before
specialising in mental ills, he later served in
Royal Park and Sunbury (Vic.) mental institu-
tions, and for some years lectured on psychology
at Melbourne University.
At 59, in Melbourne, Judge Clifford Henry
Book, senior Crown Prosecutor from 1926 to
1946, when he was elvated to the County Court
Bench and gained a reputation for terse
amiability and conciseness. He was borrowed in
1948 to act as royal commissioner in an
inquiry into police administration in Perth.
The many notable cases in which he appeared
for the Crown included that of Richard Buckley,
whose beard, shaved off when he was in Pent-
ridge, reposed in a box on the judge’s desk.
At Titirangi, Auckland (N.Z.), Colonel F.
Voelcker, one-time High Commissioner of
Samoa, more recently with the United Nations
Korean Reconstruction Agency. Invalided back
to New Zealand, he was presented to the
Queen in a wheeled-chair when she visited
Auckland Hospital. In his career he collected
C.8.E., D.S.O. and M.C.


VINTAGE MODEL


A/fcGREGOR'S recent joke-block of
the babbler with a bag of flour and
one of cement and a concrete-mixer
wasn’t altogether fantastic. Revisiting
our one-time home, I remarked how
pathetic a lone chimney always looks,
and Mother said, “Believe, it or not, but
that chimney was put up with a mixture
of cement and flour.” It seems that
Father had bought a bag of flour. Later,
mice-nests were found in it, so he
dumped it in the buggy-shed. One wet
day a hungry cow discovered it, choked
and died, so the flour was transferred to
the stripper. It stayed there alongside a
similar-shaped bag containing lime; a
neighbor borrowed the lime one day,
and Mother forgot to mention it to
Father. During a storm the chimney
blew down, and Father and Uncle set
about rebuilding it. Uncle didn’t know
about the flour in the stripper, and he set
to work. Mother discovered it too late,
so waited silently for the crash. That’s
over 30 years ago, and it’s still standing.
—“Cowyard Kate.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate” (Lond.): Near the Clock
Tower in Plymouth (Devon) there’s a
pub which would suit Mat. Wandering
down Lockyer-street in the rain and
wind one night I saw a large notice over
the door: “This Hotel is for Men Only.”
Since English hotels are well patronised
by both sexes, I was arrested by this bald
statement, went in, ordered a small bitter
(at 9.15 p.m., mind you!) and said to
’ the large Devonian behind the bar,
“Would you tell me why this pub is for
men only?” He leaned confidentially
over the counter. “You’ll not be
Plym’th?” he said. I admitted it. “Well,
then, to arnzer y’r question, zur, we
doan’ have wimmen because we’ve had
’em! ”
“I can still collect my own firewood if I like, can't I?”
“Ybsul”: The bull, the boss-boy related
in great excitement, had chased a kanaka
into long grass and had fallen into a
ditch. I motorbiked to the scene and was
directed so accurately that I almost joined
the bull. He was a big black-and-white
cove with a wide horn-span. A prized
beast indeed here in New Guinea. The
ditch, a mighty long one, was Bft. deep
and its sides were perpendicular. As for
"Bon voyage .”
width, it fitted the prisoner very neatly.
The look on the native faces said plainly,
“Well, what’s the plan?” The look on
the bull’s face said plainly, “Whatever it
is, I won’t be in it!” There was an awk-
ward pause while I groped for inspiration.
Down came a mid-aftemoon cloudburst.
I said, “Get him out quick!” and raced
for the bike and shelter. Pulling on some
dry clothes disquieting visions came of
ribs stove-in by leverage-poles, strangling
kanda ropes and broken legs. When the
rain stopped I picked up a gun, prepared
if necessary to end the beast’s sufferings,
and approached the scene of operations
with some reluctance. The bull had sur-
faced and was grazing with his maries,
vastly undamaged. The indolent savages
had simply shovelled earth down into the
ditch a few feet in front of the animal
until, when the going seemed easy enough,
it had walked up and out unassisted.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Why does a fox bark? I
mean the hunting-bark, not the vixen’s
blood-curdling scream. Their yapping,
unmistakable call sets every dog within
hearing straining at the leash, and why
should the bushy-tail thus advertise its
presence? Two explanations: (1) it
circles and raids the hen-roost while the
hounds are milling around the spot where
it was last heard ; (2) one fox draws the
crabs while its mate gets the tucker.
Both may be right, though I’d like to
see them proved.
“Archaen”: Many regard “emu” as
an aboriginal name. Actually, it goes
back to when the Portuguese were notable
in exploration by sea. Their name for
the crane is “ema.” When they landed
in South America they applied it to the
ostriches they saw there. In time it
became corrupted to “emeu.” Later,
when Australia was discovered, this name
was given to our big bird. It became
contracted to the present emu, though
many continued to put an extra “e” in
it, till the Zoological Society ruled the
three-letter name official. Meantime
South America had dropped “emeu”
and adopted “rhea” for its ostrich, so it
is Australia which keeps alive the link
with the Portuguese.
* * ♦ ♦
..v
“Warrakoo”: A shade of odds that
“Kelms’s” Saanen buck (B. 19 /5 / ’54),
which had tb be milked daily, was a
polled animal. In the breeding of milch-
goats in Australia, as distinct from the
jam-tin-and-rubbish-tip variety, it has
been noticed that as the horns are bred;
out hermaphrodism increases in the per-
centage of births. If “Kelms’s” animal
is a true aristo. he’ll have no trouble in
obtaining either his money back or a
replacement. The Goat Society is insistent
that no hermaphrodite shall be registered,
and must be notified when such cases
occur. As a breeder I have read with
amusement Aboliars’ comments regard-
ing William. Actually, the old jam-tin
nanny is as far removed from the 1954
milch-goat as a Yak is from a Jersey cow.
For the benefit of the unenlightened, Billy
becomes odoriferous only during .the
mating-season, after which he’s as white
as the driven snow and as sweet as attar-
of-roses. Anyway, what is slight olfac-
tory inconvenience set against a sire’s
earning three-quid every so often?
* * * #
“Eurimburra”: McNally of Cooradig-
bee (B. 2/6/’54) did better than Linde-
man and Paterson of Coodravale, a few
miles upstream from Cooradigbee,
though, to do “Banjo” justice, I think
he’d already sold his share of the property
to his partner. Lindeman went in for
pigs, and without any idea as to how
they’d take to the punt over the ’Bidgee
at Taemas, set out to drive 80 porkers to
Yass. He needn’t have worried, for not
one of his overlanding grunters got with-
in coo-ee of the contraption—all took to
the bush en route. It .was one of the
escapees that took with it one night the
tent of a couple of trout-fishermen and
thus started the legend of the Goodra-
digbee tiger.
* * * *
“P.J.A.”: Add Ingham (N.Q.) to those
towns with wide main streets gained by
accident, not design. When Ingham was
young the lines to carry the cane-trains
were laid in the centre of the main street,
so full-width roadways had to be made
on each side to carry the general traffic.
As the town grew the cane-trains became
a hazard to safety, and the line was
diverted. Now Ingham has a double-
row of shade trees on the site of the old
lines, and in the main section of the
town each tree is surrounded by a built-
up flower-bed in which flourish brilliant
annuals in season. As well, with its wide
tree-shaded area it has no parking pro-
blems—a point worth remembering
when statistics show that it also has one
of the highest motor-vehicle registrations
per capita in the world.
* * ♦ ♦
“Fair Mac”: “Bass’s” contention that
the weight of jarrah varies with the
locality in which it is grown (B. 19 /5 / ’54)
may be applied to any timber. A timber
grown in a very moist climate will weigh
much more per cubic foot than timber
of the same species grown in arid con-
ditions. Technical experts have proved
that some timbers can ab-
sorb up to 301 b. per cubic
foot. Even when seasoned
the timber grown amidst
an abundance of moisture
will weigh heavier than the
dry-country product —if
both are stack-dried (not
dried in a kiln) in the local-
ity where they were cut.
Without artificial aid tim-
ber will dry only to what is
called “equilibrium mois-
ture content” —that is, until
the moisture in the timber
is equivalent to the mois-
ture in the atmosphere
around it. A piece of tim-
ber cut, and seasoned for
years in the moist atmos-
phere of N.Q. would shrink
and lose weight if it were
taken to, say Central Aus-
tralia. The reverse would
apply to timber from desert
country taken to a moist
atmosphere. Also timber
which has to battle arid
conditions is hardest to cut,
proving that weight and
hardness aren’t necessarily
complementary.
“Sleech”: Seventy years
ago two brothers had a
look at some country and
decided to buy it. They
found a nice flat beside a
creek as a homestead site, but when
they returned with a wagon loaded
with gear they couldn’t locate it. Finally
one said: “If it’s not up this gully over
here it’s nowhere else.” They went up the
gully, and there it was. To this day you’ll
still see bales of wool being shipped from
Port Lincoln (S.A.) bearing the station
brand, NOWHERE ELSE.
* * * *
“Dustman”: A man sinking a well in
limestone near a W.A. beach struck at
3ft, a fissure which led straight down for
another 10ft. and branched into three
tunnels, the largest of which was high
enough for a man to walk along. It was
followed for 50ft.,, where the explorer
found a stream of clear, cold water 7ft.
deep. That’s typical of W.A.’s west
coast. It’s honeycombed with caves,
many of which haven’t been investigated
and comparatively few explored. There
are some which, when they’re opened
up, will rival in size and beauty any that
have been found in W.A.
* * * *
Swags
ALL this talk about “blueys” and
“Matildas” may be O.K. for you
blokes in the “inside” country, but bush-
men in the Territory and Kimberieys
always refer to “swags.”
Pack-horse is the accepted mode of
swag-transport up there, and the swag has
more individuality than any back-humped
drum.
Swags come in assorted sizes, colors
and shapes. There are long swags, short
swags, skinny swags, and fat swags. No
self-respecting bushman would wrap a
swag in a blanket —he uses a “swag-
cover.” This varies from the light duck
of a “boong’s swag” to the heavier tar-
paulin types, some of which contain
sewn compartments for little things like
razors, needle-and-cotton and reserve
tobacco.
The outback swag is rolled and tied
with two straps—anything from rope to
stirrup-leathers, according to social
standing. The experienced bushman can
get enough gear into a swag to last him
for months, and he rolls it so that it
fits neatly on the pack-saddle.
I remember dumping a fat, unwieldy
swag at the hut after my first spell in a
cattle-camp. An old bushman eyed it
speculatively, spat between his elastic-
sides and exclaimed: “That’s a
married man’s swag if ever I saw one.”
It was the first time I’d heard the
expression, and I heard it many more
times—but never again about mine.
B. O. VINE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MIST ON THE BAX
What alien seascape this, what unknown quays?
Dawn has been halted here an hour or more.
Waiting the light that lurks beneath the seas,
As even the sun his constancy forswore.
While the stranded hours, the silvery vessels,
hang
Fantastic between formless sky and shore.
Faint murmurings, as of some great purring
beast,
Come from a city somewhere, wax and wane.
A factory whistle has split the mist and ceased.
Where am I? Marseilles, Tyre, Port of Spain?
Was that a Roman trumpet summoning
The soldiers' of the Thirtieth, in vain?
An ocean-going albatross suddenly
Slants by, and once more into nothingness sails.
Perhaps the Flying Dutchman from the sea
Will presently glide, away from wearying gales.
A soundless anchor dropping in the tide.
And sad-eyed seamen leaning on her rails.
That Jetty’s end, now smothered in a snow
Of waiting gulls, may have seen the barge that
bare
King Arthur on a journey long ago
With three dark Queens (none of them Guine-
vere),
While the very waves forbore to lip the rocks,
And a stillness filtered from the upper air.
I hear the slap of unseen oars that pass
Close by: does Chiton gather passengers here?
Then a huge sun gleams out as through a glass
Darkly, and veils and vapors disappear:
This is no sea-coast of Bohemia, blit
Port Melbourne, and the first fog of the year.
victoria.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


A
V
0
w
hi
0
A
0
*
a
STILL TOP OF THE CLASS...
After more than twelve years of continuous presentation, the sprightly, well-
informed “Quiz Kids” are still tops in entertainment—and their popularity
still grows! Compered by knowledgeable John Dease, the ‘‘Quiz Kids”
come to your home each Sunday evening at 7,30 p.m. (Except 3AW/CV —
Fridays 8.30 p.m.)
Presented by the good wishes of Johnson & Johnson
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7H0
2NX 2NM 2 MW 2LF 2PK 2 MG 2WL 2LT 2CA
3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
and a nationwide network of other commercial
broadcasting stations
MACQUARIE f — k
CASTING SERVICE
Research in Industry ... No. 3 of a Series
m
% i Ml
f il
h>. l : lh>u : /\J
■■ ' W'lTf\ ii^
V
il/
!^%yjg|^ r :
;A\
-~v
:•/
Qossamer
Strength
In March 1941, a chemist
working in a laboratory
in Great Britain touched
a mass of molten plastic
with a glass rod. As he
drew the rod away, the
effect he had hoped for
occurred. A shining
gossamer filament was
formed, which hardened
in the cool air. This fila-
ment now known as
“Terylene” can be
made into new and wonderful fabrics of every kind. The
immense and costly task of developing “Terylene” (or.
“Dacron” as it is sometimes known) from a chemist’s
experiment to full-scale production has been undertaken
by 1.C.1. No less than £-10,000,000 is being spent on
the first full-scale manufacturing plant now being built
at 1.C.1.’s Wilton works in North Yorkshire, and during
1953 1.C.1. decided such was its faith in the future
of “Terylene” to double the size of this plant, making
the total investment in “Terylene” nearly £20,000,000.
Small quantities of shirts and other items of apparel can
already be purchased in Australia but when supplies are
freely available “Terylene” suits, dresses, underwear, socks
light and easy to wash, yet warm and soft will be
in all the shops.
an aNvivaz M3N qnv vnvaisnv jo
samisnam ivdiwbhd ivmidwi
ICI
L. 548.4837
YX/HEN a W.A. farmer bought a pro-
y perty at Moora nine years ago the
seller told him he’d liberated some fresh-
water fish in the dam. Since then the
buyer has pumped the dam dry, and for
the last three years it has been practic-
ally dry in winter and mud-cracked in
summer. This winter the dam has filled
partly, and there are fish ten inches long
in. it! So far, no satisfactory explanation
has been offered. Some fish will go
underground when their water-supply
dries-up— any abo. worth his salt can
find eels in the bed of the north-west
rivers, still vigorously alive when they’re
dug out. But they don’t have to survive
a three-year drought, and, anyway, these
fish aren’t eels. They weren’t deposited in
the dam - by a waterspout and the dam
isn’t fed by an artesian stream. Perhaps
some member of the council can take
over this particular case from here. —
“Bass.”
* • ♦ *
“Quo Vadis”: New to the district, I
had a bumper backyard tomato-crop, the
envy of all. When first-of-winter tem-
peratures hit 32 degrees a native-born
resident told me I could beat the frosts
by hosing the plants with the warm
artesian water before the sun got to
them. I did. Before the last splendid'
bush had received its “frost-washing”
the first one was a rigid, icy effigy, and
an hour later the sun was shining be-
nignly on the whole blackened ruin . . .
An untried legend? Perhaps. I record
the unfortunate event only so that my
fellow-men may be saved a similar
disaster.
* ♦ * «
“Kelms”: Any . time now people with
more sympathy than science will be
ringing the Perth Museum to ask what
can be done for an injured bird that’s
limping along one of the beaches. The
“injured” bird will be one of the petrels,
probably a Cape petrel, come up from
Heard Island or Kerguellen Island to
winter along our Westralian sou’-west
coast; and from the way they shuffle
along the beach, half-sideways and
almost limping, you’d really think they
had broken-legs. Wonders in the air, and
able to roam over thousands of miles
of ocean, they’re helpless on land. Their
legs are wrongly jointed for walking, and
even when standing they look as though
they’re about to topple over. Which is
probably one reason why they fight so
hard to avoid being driven inland by a
gale. Forced down at sea they might
survive ; they wouldn’t stand a chance out
of sight of the sea.
« • * •
“W. J.W.”: Lately I was criticised here
for suggesting that the Koombana, which
went down off W.A.’s north-west coast,
may have been caught in a submarine
current and carried far from the scene
of the disaster. Now the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science
reports the finding of an under-sea river
in the Pacific. It’s about 200 ft. down,
flowing eastward —against the direction
of the surface flow —at about six knots.
“ You'd never think he’d started as a truck-driver."
It’s discoverers think it may come nearer
the surface in places, and suggest that
it may explain the reported eastward
drift of ships close to the equator in
some parts of the Pacific. It may also
explain the complete disappearance of
some ships.
* * * *
“Temporary Exile”: There are blokes
way out in the Mallee and down along
the Monaro hills who’d like to get their
hands on a utensil now used as an orna-
ment in the White Hart Hotel, Salisbury
(Eng.). Made of brass, it stands about
3ft, high, with a sort of tank about 2ft.
in diameter, and above that, connected
by a narrow neck, a large hollow ball
out of which runs a brass-pipe in a
half-S turn downwards to a narrowing
spout. An old-time whisky-still. The
barley or potatoes or whatever the brew
was made of was heated in the tank, the
steam caught in the ball and the lovely
result ran down the half-S. Two Ameri-
can gents visiting the pub could hardly
get their eyes off it, and when they dis-
covered what it was 1 believe neither
would go to bed until sure the other
was locked in his room.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Clunesman”; “Backstation Creek’s”
item on the “Gundagai Independent”
(B. 2/6/’54) gavp a good example of
that paper’s reporting. When I lived at
Wagga the Sullivan boys, Pat and Jim,
ran the show together. They had a happy
knack of spicing the dullest report with
humor. Once when the ladies of the
Tucker-box town wanted to use the
bowling-greert one day a week the Sulli-
vans immediately sensed opportunity for
fun combined with white-hot controversy.
The climax was a packed meeting which
was written-up in boxing style, with
round-to-round descriptions. Leading
citizens were dubbed with names of pro-
minent pugs and trainers —according to
the parts they played—and the paper
gave it a full-page spread. The lead to
the story ran something like: “There
may be blue birds over the White Cliffs
of Dover, but there’ll never be white
skirts over the green lawns of Gundagai
Bowling Club.” For once the women
failed to get the last word.
“5 GR.”: Old Tom, of Boundary
Bend, gazed gloomily at the gently-flow-
ing Murray as he. expounded his views:
“Why I’m going crook is this. We’ve
got a wine-licence and a post-office. Now
they’re going to rebuild and give ’em a
full pub-licence. There’s a garage startin’
and a noo shop with fancy tucker. Next
thing the joint’ll be flooded with
tourists!”
♦♦■ • *
“Spin”: A Perth reporter who
accompanied the convoy which took the
oil-rig from Fremantle to Exmouth told
how the big trucks “did Nicol Bay Flat
a good turn.” Nicol Bay Flat, a few
miles out of Carnarvon, contains one of
the finest crops of double-gees (bindy-
eyes) this side of the rabbit-proof fence ;
and the “good turn” consisted in picking
up the spiny seed-cases in the thick tyres
and carrying them away. That should
ensure not only that the Flat will have a
bigger crop next year but also that the
pest will be spread another 100 miles
along the track. Where one seed ger-
minates and takes root this year there’ll
be a colony in a few years’ time. That
doesn’t apply only to double-gees. Trucks
travelling long distances have taken over
as weed-spreaders from slow-moving
stock; and, as they’re so much more
efficient, pests which have existed in iso-
lated districts now turn-up anywhere in
the State. Particularly weeds like double-
gees, caltrop, burrs, etc. We used to
think Nature designed these seed-cases
to be caught in animals’ coats and carried
away from the parent plants ; but it looks
as though the wily dame may have had
in mind the age of rubber and modern
transport.
* a ♦ *
“Pheasant”: Natives around Cape
York Peninsula fear a small, legendary,
hairy man called the Kapri, who, naturally,
is immortal. But lately Jack, the big
line-foreman from the P.M.G. depot there,
has shaken their faith a bit. Big Jack
noticed his melons were thinning, so
he casually mentioned to a group of
logical suspects that it would be a good
idea to keep away from his garden, as
he had shot a Kapri there recently, and
the vengeful spirit might get them. Know-
ing grins greeted this news of super-
natural hunting. One of the cheeky boys
said : “You bin shootem Kapri, boss,
he catchem bullets and throw ’em back
longa you.” That seemed the general
opinion, and Jack was stumped for a
moment. But he made a quick recovery.
“Ah,” he said, “that’s with a rifle. I
tricked him, though. Used a shot-gun. He
couldn’t catch all the pellets. I killed
him all right—buried him under the
melons.” Eyes rolled briefly; a couple
of pairs, anyway. Jack can’t be sure, of
course, how far the tale was accepted.
But it’s worth noting that, since then,
his melons have been left unmolested.
THREE TREES IN WINTER
On the skyline stand three symbols
of courage, love and happiness—
name, jacaranda, silky-oak —
where weeds might well have grown.
Thanks be to one unknown.
Who could pass them by
still winter-blind of eye
to that clear message that next Spring has
shown?—
though one be brief of season,
or fail with weather-fears;
though one should only blossom once
in seven years.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


TILLEY*. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 1 £ pints of Kero for
12 hours’ light it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining: XILLEY
products.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Senator McCarthy and
the Catholic Church
Is It true that an increasing num-
ber of Catholic Church leaders in
the U.S.A. are condemning Senator
Joseph McCarthy? The current issue
of the League of Rights’ INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY answers this ques-
tion in an article exposing how the
Communist-inspired smear campaign
is being directed against an Ameri-
can patriot. The daily press features
every criticism of McCarthy while
suppressing the praise of Cardinal
Spellman and other prominent
Americans.
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also brings to Australians the full
text of McCarthy’s great speech,
“Twenty Years of Treason,” which
has never been answered. Every
month this publication makes avail-
able to Australian patriots objective
comment, articles and vital informa-
tion concerning the Communist con-
spiracy against Christendom.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY: 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription: £2 25., post
free. Order from The Victorian
League of Rights (non-party; non-
sectarian), 343 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Countless Thousands Agree
TRADE MARK
100 TABLETS FOR 12/8
relieves all
RHEUMATIC
PAINS
Since Dolcin was perfected
by American scientists five
years ago, thousands of men
and women throughout the
world have found merciful, long-lasting relief'-
from the pains of arthritis, rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis and gout.
More than a thousand million Dolcin tablets
have already been taken, and an endless stream
of letters of thanks testify that Dolcin has
given prompt relief where all other treatments
failed.
DON’T GIVE UP-YOU CAN EASE PAIN
Da. mm am an nn Write for informa-
olc i ni tive nterature -
ara ■■ Dolcin (Australia)
FOR ALL RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS Sf’
i
Business Rollery Etc.
Report on Industry
A USTRALIAN factories are
now making more goods
than ever before. The number
of workers in Australian fac-
tories, including employers and
staff, now exceeds a million, and
average output per worker has
never been greater.
In surveying the Australian
industrial picture, the Division
of Industrial Development, Can-
berra, says that prices of Aus-
tralian manufactures have
generally remained steady over
the past six months, with a ten-
dency to decline under the influ-
ence of lower raw-material
prices and of keen competition
for sales. The trend is most
noticeable in industries subject
to severe import competition on
the basis of current prices.
Manufacturers’ costs are also
stable or turning slightly down-
wards as a result of much im-
proved productivity of labor
and a fall in overhead costs per
unit by achieving higher output.
During 1953, productivity
showed a marked advance,
while labor turnover was small;
there is no evidence that any of
this productivity-gain has been
lost in recent months with the
developing shortage of labor,
but it is evident that the best
prospects for reducing costs in
1954 are through intensive
managerial effort and willing-
ness to replace old equipment
with the most modern labor-
saving machinery.
In total, the level of Austra-
lian manufacturing production
is unlikely to continue to ijse
during the remaining months of
1954 at the same high rate as
in 1953. Growing pressure on
labor resources (especially
skilled labor) is already putting
a brake on output in some in-
dustries. And there is an in-
creased volume of imported
goods which directly compete
with Australian products.
Although output of Australian
manufacturing industry has been
steadily increasing, over the past
year the increase in imports to
Australia has been much greater.
As suggested by manufacturers
in textile, clothing and some
metal-using and engineering in-
dustries, the possibility arises
that by perhaps the third quar-
ter of 1954 the total of such
goods available (production
plus imports) might temporarily
exceed consumer purchases.
Leaving aside incalculable
factors such as the possibility of
a sharp fall in wool prices or a
more serious recession in the
United States than is now con-
sidered likely, the prospects for
Australian manufacturing hang
on its ability to trim its costs
and prices steadily downwards.
This is true especially for those
industries which compete with
imports, but applies also to
naturally local industries (such
as those making building-
materials or processing food for
export) which appear to be fac-
ing some long-term price-resist-
ance from potential customers.
Total manufacturing produc-
tion is now well above the pre-
recession peak in 1951. Never
before has Australia pro-
duced so much ingot-steel,
cement, superphosphate or
newsprint. Other products
made in record amounts dur-
ing recent months range from
terra-cotta tiles to refrigerators
and washing-machines.
Industries which lagged be-
hind in the general increase in
output include those making
machine-tools, heavy engineer-
ing' equipment, electric trans-
formers and control-gear, con-
struction and excavating equip-
ment, agricultural implements,
cutlery and radio-receivers.
Only a few miscellaneous pro-
ducts covered in the departmental
survey railway rolling-stock,
ammonium sulphate, galvanised-
iron, dairy products and canned
meats, soups and vegetables—
were made in somewhat smaller
quantities in the March period,
1954, than a year previously.
When March-April, 1954, is
compared with September-Octo-
ber, 1953, there is a generally
similar picture of increased out-
put after allowing for seasonal
variations. Of particular interest
is the small but positive im-
provement in output by the
heavy or specialised engineering
industries making metal-work-
ing machinery, machine-tools,
industrial materials - handling
equipment and construction and
excavating equipment. These
heavy industries are still mostly
producing at a lower rate than
in 1951 —demonstrating the
change in the pattern of output
which economic circumstances
have imposed on Australian
manufacturing in recent years.
Can the level of output of
> Australian manufacturing indus-
try continue to rise during the
remaining months of 1954 at
the same high rate as in 1953?
The indications are, in the
opinion of the Division of Indus-
trial Development, that it can-
not, although there is a capacity
to spare in a number of indus-
tries.
In the first place, the pressure
on labor resources has expanded
to the point where workers, and
especially skilled tradesmen, are
at a premium.. Unemployment
is almost non-existent, and there
are nearly 50,000 unfilled vac-
ancies (half of them in manu-
facturing) recorded with the
Commonwealth Employment
Service.
Some manufacturers have
mentioned their determination
to be more selective in engag-
ing labor; that is, they prefer
to be short-staffed rather than
take on unsuitable employees
who could be a drag on effici-
ency. Even if the supply of labor
were plentiful, certain indus-
tries, notably in the light-
engineering field, are already
finding that their level of output
is restricted by the insufficient
(although record) supply of
Australian steel and, to a much
lesser extent, of copper.
The accumulating shortages
of labor and materials, at least
in some industries, suggests that
the past year’s increase in total
manufacturing output may even-
out on a high plateau, and will
probably not rise much further
for the time being.
“Thar She Blows!”
“P. Mobile”: The flow of gas
encountered around the long-
predicted 3700 ft in Associated
Oilfields’ No. 4 test-well on
Hospital Hill, Roma (Q.), should
have caused no excitement (and,
much less, a rise in oil-share
prices) to anyone familiar with
the chequered oil-history of that
structure.
Located as it is only a short
distance from five failures, two
of which produced gas with oil,
and two gas only, all in non-
commercial quantities (B.
3/2/’54), the chances of AAO4
being “dry” were remote, parti-
cularly as the distance from the
most spectacular well of all-—,
that drilled for the Roma council
in 1900 —was so small that AAO4
should be classed as an offset to
it and not as a new location.
The tapping of this latest flow
of gas was witnessed at 4.30 p.m.
on June 8 by a number of
apparently - forewarned local
notables which included, pre-
sumably, the experts who stated,
in February of last year, that
they were confident that the
abortive AAD2 test-well would
produce worth-while amounts of
crude petroleum from which
would be distilled “kerosene,
dieseline, lubricating and heavy
fuel-oils.”
A flow of gas from AAD4
“measuring at least 1,500,000
cubic feet per day and pressure
of 9001 b. per square-inch” was
reported, but these figures must
be accepted with considerable
reserve, as “the test was curtailed
to 30 minutes because pressure
caused the gas to leak from the
drill-pipe connection.” Even
when such tests have been carried
out over a number of days, per-
manent production is by no
means assured in any notoriously
lenticular and faulted structure
such as that underlying Roma, as
that town learned to its dismay
in June, 1906.
The recorded pressure of 9001 b.
p.s.i. is below what was to be
expected in a reservoir with com-
mercial characteristics. Exten-
sive and permeable strata at the
reported depth of 3694ft.-3714ft.
should have produced at least
twice the pressure quoted, and
the discrepancy is nowhere near
bridged by “leaks in the drill-
pipe connection preventing a true
maximum pressure being
recorded.”
“An Attractive Parcel”
In B, 7/4/’54 a selection of six
ordinary shares was given, then
yielding from 5.3 p.c. to 6.5 p.c.
Selected for income and
“prospects,” there has • been
upward movement in five out of
the six stocks, only F. \V- Hughes
remaining stationary. Bradford
Cotton lifted from 345, 6d. to
355., then came back to 345. 6d.,
R. B. Davies Industries has risen
from 245. 6d. to 285., Frederic
Ash from 475. 6d. to 505.,
Minster, Ltd., from 235. to
235. 9d., and Masonite from
475. to 555.
Uranium “Mines”
The greatest will-o’-the-wisp in
Australia today is uranium.
Methods of prospecting for it are
still likely to be cruelly deceptive,
and more hot-air has been
expended over our “uranium
resources” than any other
mineral in recent memory. The
Commonwealth may possess
large undiscovered uranium-ore
deposits. But anything “large”
and rich still remains to be un-
covered and “proved” in a
mining sense. Most of the
activity in uranium shares on the
Stock Exchanges has a basis in
wishful thinking.
Canada Dry
The co.’s bank having
appointed a receiver, with the
company unable to meet current
commitments, the board of
Canada Dry (Aust. and N.Z),
Ltd., has still to decide whether
the co. will cease trading. The
directors are considering whether,
as alternatives, the business can
be reorganised or sold as a going
concern. A large portion of the
co.’s assets is represented by
“bottles, cases and pallets on
hand and in circulation.” Unless
the business can be kept going
or sold as a going concern,
£183,934-worth of bottles, etc.,
branded “Canada Dry” might
not fetch anything like their
book-value. Paid capital is
£400,000, and losses and intan-
gibles now amount to something
like £175,000. Buyers of the
£1 shares at 2s. appear to be
gambling on the co. being kept
in operation under its own name.
Bruck and Burlington
The chief rayon-weavers in
Australia are Bruck Mills and
Burlington, one at Wangaratta in
Victoria, and the other at
Rutherford (N.S.W.). Both have
enjoyed a particularly busy time
over the past 18 months, with
Bruck showing rather spectacular
profits and Burlington exhibiting
recovery from its previously
unimpressive record.
Ray on-weaving in Australia
reached its peak in October of
last year. Though there was a
recovery from the December-
January holiday period in
February and March, the trade is
now quieter.
Distributors report that orders
have recently fallen off, and the
backlog of unfilled requirements
is lower than it was this time
-last year. Competition from
imports, following relaxation of
restrictions, is believed to oe
responsible for the more cautious
merchandising policy.
Nevertheless output for the
industry during the year ending
with this month should be far and
away a record, with an increase
of probably 25 p.c. It is during
1954-55 that competition
threatens to be noticeable.
Industrial Acceptance
Industrial Acceptance Corp.
Ltd,, is offering £ 1,500,000-worth
of 5i p.c. registered first-
mortgage debenture-stock, under-
written by lan Potter and Co.,
Melbourne, Application - lists
open today, and subscribers have
the option of taking up stock
with three different maturity-
dates —March 31, 1958; March
31, 1960 ; March 31, 1964.
The co.’s 1953 earnings cover
5.32 times the annual interest
payable on the £l2 million of
debenture stock, after this issue,
without making any allowance
for the earning-capacity of the
new money. Asset-backing is
shown at £236 for each £lOO of
stock.


ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY
FORMATION OF CONSORTIUM TO N£S9I lATE
SETTLEMENT OF IRANIAN DISPUTE
TOTAL SALES IN 1953 INCREASED BY 14%
TO 37,000,000 TONS
SIR WILLIAM FRASER’S STATEMENT
The 45th annual general meeting of the Anglo-Iraman Oil
Company, Ltd., was held on June 10 in London, England.
The following is an extract from the statement to stockholders
by the Chairman, Sir William Fraser, C.8.E., LL.D., circulated wi
the report and accounts:
Consolidated trading profit and
other income for 1953 was
£43,827,585 after provision ot
£20,056,243 for Depreciation. The
gross consolidated profit thus
totalled £63,883,828, comparing with
£61,260,584 for 1952 when deprecia-
tion and other write-offs totalling
£14,198,946 were provided.
Total Capital Expenditure during
1953 was Just under £75,000,900,
financed by the proceeds of the
Debenture Issue in January, 1953,
retained profits and reduction of net
current assets. This capital ex-
penditure included the following
main items Aden Refinery
£26,500,000; Kent Refinery
£14,600,000; Kwinaua (W. Aus-
tralia) Refinery £10,700,000; other
D.K. Refineries £4,300,000; Tankers
£8,500,000; Oil Exploration Interests
£4,500,000 and Marketing Interests
£4,000,000 —a total of £73,100,000.
Capital expenditure in 1954 con-
tinues to be heavy, being of the
order of £60,000,000.
After providing £19,342,232 for
taxation on profits, the amount
available for reserves and dividends
is £24,382,850 compared with
£25,165,966 for 1952. Your directors
have placed £14,000,000 to General
Reserve and have recommended a
final dividend on the Ordinary Stock
of 25 per cent., and in addition a
cash bonus of 2s. 6d. per £1 Stock
Unit, both less income tax. The
total distribution for the year
approximates 7 per cent, on the
Ordinary Stoak plus General
Reserve.
The Company’s Interests in Iran
The Statement describes the
latest events relating to the Com-
pany’s interests in Iran including
the resumption of diplomatic rela-
tions between Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Iranian Government.
Following inter-Government negotia-
tions and intercompany discussion
of the problem of restoring Iranian
oil to the world market it has been
agreed that the best chance of
reaching a solution lies in the
formation of a Consortium of
Anglo-Iranian and seven other major
oil companies concerned with the
production and marketing of Middle
East oil.
The Consortium of Companies
would be as follows: Anglo-Iranian
Oil Company, with a 40 per cent,
share; the five United States Com-
panies, Standard Oil (New Jersey),
Socony-Vacuum Oil, Standard Oil of
California, Gulf Oil and Texas with
an interest aggregating 40 per cent.',
Royal Dutch-Shell with 14 per cent.,
and the Conipagnie Franpaise des
P6troles with 6 per cent. The Con-
sortium would not be established
until there is an agreement with the
Iranian Government which is accept-
able to all the Companies participat-
At the invitation of the Iranian
Government a delegation of three
negotiators left London for Tehran
on 10th April.
Parallel with the negotiations
between the Consortium delegation
and the Iranian Government,
negotiations with regard to the
compensation to be paid to the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company by the
Iranian Government are being con-
ducted by Her Majesty’s Ambassa-
dor, who arrived at Tehran' in
March. It had been agreed that
this question, with which the other
members of the Consortium are not
directly concerned, should be dealt
with separately.
The two sets of negotiations are
in progress and developments
between now and the Annual
General Meeting will be reported
then.
Production, Exploration
and Refining
Crude oil production in Kuwait,
Iraq and Qatar was again substanti-
ally increased during 1953, when our
off-take from those sources totalled
some 32,200,000 tons compared with
25,600,000 tons in 1952. Our range
of exploration activities (including
Australia, Papua, Canada, East and
West Africa, Trinidad, Sicily and
the Persian Gulf) has been further
extended.
In Papua, where our joint under-
taking with Australian ahd
American interests continues t<s pro-
gress, a test well at Omati has
encountered an interesting show ot
high-pressUre gas at 1i>,743 teet,
this is believed to be the deepest
so far drilled in the Southern
Hemisphere. Another well is being
drilled at Omati, and the Northern
delta area at Kuru, one of the most
promising locations indicated by
geological and geophysical surveys,
is to be test-drilled in the near
future. „ „ ,
In Australia, the Frome-Broken
Hill Company, in which we are
associated with Australian and
American interests, has resumed its
search for oil.
Our total refinery throughput dur-
ing 1953, at 20,000,000 tons was
2.000. tons greater than in 1952.
With the new Aden refinery coming
into commission this summer, and
Kwinana (W. Australia) refinery
early next year, as well as expected
increases in capacity of some of
our existing refineries, our total re-
fining capacity by the end of next
year should be some 30,000,000 tons.
Parallel with this expansion in re-
fining capacity, our refining opera-
tions and the quality of products
are being continuously improved by
the installation of new plant, in a
constant effort to achieve the most
efficient and competitive production.
In Great Britain, our refinery'
throughput in 1953 was 9,327,000
tons against 6,788,000 tons in 1952.
In Australia, at Laverton (Mel-
bourne) refinery throughput was
165,000 tons against 161,000 tons in
1952. At Kwinana in Western Aus-
tralia good progress is being made
with the construction of our new
3.000. tons capacity refinery,
which is expected to be in opera-
tion in the spring of 1955.
The statement details the Com-
pany’s refinery operations in Bel-
gium, France, Germany, Italy,
Israel, Kuwait and Aden.
World demand for petroleum pro-
ducts (excluding the Iron Curtain
countries) increased by about 5%
in 1953, a similar rate to that ex-
perienced in' the preceding year. In
the Eastern Hemisphere the inctease
in consumption was about 8%, only
fractionally less than in the pre-
ceding year.
1953 was our second full year
without supplies from Iran. As re-
ported last year, although the Anglo-
Iranian Group’s sales of over 32
million tons of crude oil and pro-
ducts in 1952 were 3 million tons
below those for 1951, our position
had been improving. This improve-
ment continued, with the result that
the Group’s sales of crude oil and
products in 1953 increased by 4 1
million tons, or just over 14% com-
pared with 1952, and totalled just
under 37 million tons. This increase
occurred mainly in crude oil sales;
sales of refined products increased
by rather over one million tons and
were supplied to a greater extent
from our own resources.
In Australia considerable further
progress has been made with im-
proving and expanding the distri-
bution and marketing facilities of
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries'
Ltd.,' a wholly owned Anglo-Iranian
subsidiary since our purchase of
the Australian Government’s share-
holding as reported last year. The
Company is thus enabled to share
in the Commonwealth’s growing
petroleum business, sales by C.O.R.
during 1953 showing a very satis-
factory increase.
Both in Australia and New
Zealand we are still confronted with
the problem, mentioned below, of
economic supply because of our lack
of refinery capacity East of Suez.
Also the petroleum inddstry,
particularly in Australia, suffers
from a price control system which
permits little or no allowance for
the considerable increase in internal
costs brought about by higher com-
modity prices and wages; the official
cost-of-living index in Australia
showed an increase of over 50 per
cent, between 1949 and 1953, with-
out any corresponding increase being
recognised in petroleum distribution
costs.
1,500,000 TRANSACTIONS
HANDLED EVERY WEEK
Over one and a half million entries to customers'
accounts are posted in the ledgers and balanced
by A.N.Z. Bank staff every week. To an increasing
extent, the work is performed on accounting and
ledger-keeping machines which promote both
accuracy and speed.
This great volume of business Is another indication
of the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank—-
with over 750 branches and agencies located to
serve you all over Australia and New Zealand!
in Fiji and Papua, and in London.
A-N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Agents throughout the world.
Do you like an
‘independent ’ spirit?
f 'ttfire V* rjl
//.
0
BELtS
scotch W k
100% SCOTCH W*‘J
OISTULED AND
distillers
ESTABLI SHED .
scot^
Our subject Is whisky. By which, of
course, we mean Scotch whisky. It
is generally agreed that Scotland
Is the home of good whisky. From
Scotland come all those famous,
world-known whiskies.
To be precise, our subject Is one of
the few remaining Independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we want to
tell you about ourselves. We are
Bell’s, independent distillers since
1825. Perth Is our home town.
Whisky is our pride. And, man,
what whisky! If you’ve a nose on
you to relish the subtle smokiness
of superlative Scotch whisky; if
you’ve a tongue that can taste the
years of maturing; if your palate
can appreciate the blending of many
distilllngs to make a perfect whole
—lf, in a word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its barley-
fields and peat and moors. Its glens
and tumbling burns—you’re the
very man for Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED ISIS
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Beergardens
Pubs are beginning to develop
a rash of beergardens in northern
parts of N.Z., where brewery
cos., wine-and-spirit merchants,
publicans and licensing trusts
are all sinking money in projects
which might show the way to
getting rid of overcrowded bars,
The beergarden idea has caught
on, and the Licensing-control
Commission has given it its
blessing.
Sit-down drinking has never
had much of a chance in
the past, because most bars
have allowed for standing-room
only, most of all in the final
hour before six-o’clock closing,
Building and other conditions
are now more favorable,
although building schemes are
still costly and take a long
time to complete. Headway is
being made against the arrears
of work left by the war,
and hotel interests ha ve a
reasonable prospect of getting
ahead with operations planned to
raise the standard for bar patrons
or guests. In quite a number
Q f cases the Licensing Corn-
mission has ordered licencees to
ge j. buS y i n both directions—
by making bars roomier and by
se tfing themselves out to give
a warmer welcome to tourists,
travellers and ordinary New
Zealanders,
There - S imagination in some
beer g arde n schemes, as
L ° thp most
architects have made the most
of opportum
on new lines. Sites away from
the rush of traffic have , alio
plenty of elbow-room, air
single-story light cons 1
has been within the capital
resources of cos. and trusts.
The most showy so far
planned is a beergarden at
Ellerslie, an Auckland suburb,
which will have a transparent
plastic verandah-roof and walls
above table-height in plate-glass
sliding sections. Gisborne will
have something inexpensive, a
beergarden alongside the sea,
complete with colored
umbrellas and tables in the open-
air. At Rotorua, N.Z.’s top
tourist - resort, a Continental-
style beergarden and garden-
lounge, covered and centrally
heated, will encircle a garden-
court, with sliding-doors to
throw everything open on warm
days.
Another tourist and thermal
resort, at Waiwera, with the
sea on one side and native bush
on the other, will combine a
beergarden with a Hot Springs
Hole, modelled Yankee-style.
The only beergarden yet
planned by a Licensing Trust is
taking shape at Mount Welling-
ton, on the outskirts of Auck-
land, with ambitions to provide
“the best drinking facilities in
N.Z.”, and perhaps inspire other
trusts. With all these projects
going forward together, the
hotel-trade is on its toes, and,
besides these, brewery cos. have
set themselves out to build new
hotels (at a six-figure cost apiece}
at Hamilton, and Kawerau
(the pulp-and-newsprint town).
A Trading-bank Loan
One of the most controversial
loans ever arranged by a Govern-
ment in N.Z. is the £ 12-million
draft on trading-bank credit,
which is still hotly discussed, but
without upsetting the Prime
Minister, who cheerfully waves
aside all criticism. This money
has been put up by the five banks,
at 3j p.c., and will be relent by
the State Advances Corp. at rates
from 4i p.c. to 4| p.c. as part of
its normal house-financing. “A
good piece of business” is the
P.M.’s view of it. No doubt the
banks, which have been silent,
are well satisfied, and those who
borrow from the corp. will be
happy enough. The critics are
Socialists, monetary cranks and
some economists.
So far as the P.M. has erred,
it has been in converting credit
for capital-spending—for seven
years—and not, as the critics
claim, in borrowing from the
trading-banks on market terms
instead of from the Reserve
Bank, as the Socialists did and
would do again, at nominal rates.
Socialists have been trying to
whip Maorilanders into fury by
shouting that this financing is as
inflationary as if Reserve Bank
credit were expanded, only to
see the public gape. If the money
is retired in due course, there’s
nothing to choose between the
two methods, from the infla-
tionary angle at any rate, but it’s
much more likely to be retired if
the State is paying for it, than if
the millions were raised without
cost.
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd.
Large and well-spread interests
in construction, engineering,
manufacturing and general
merchandising have made a
rapidly growing contribution to
turnover of N.Z.’s biggest and
most go-ahead combine, Fletcher
Holdings, Ltd., and subsidiaries,
in the post-war years. To prove
that the group has lost none of
its drive, the latest lift of
£2,720,000 in turnover is the best
yet, and the peak reached, £14,9
million, is paralleled by consoli-
dated net profit (£265,667), which
is up by £54,239, fully in pro-
portion.
It was during the war that the
Fletcher enterprise got its start as
an “empire-builder,” and over the
past 12 years it has wrought more
changes in the face of New
Zealand than any other organisa-
tion, barring the Works Depart-
ment. Irt 1942 capital was a
mere £250,000 ; 10 years later it
was £2,000,000. Now the co. is
preparing to raise another million
by increasing the authorised limit
to £3,000,000.
Two years after the last issue
of £750,000, the div. has moved
up from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.
With N.Z. building on ‘a
larger scale than ever before,
there seems to be no lack of
profitable employment, and
Fletcher’s subsidiaries are catch-
ing a big share of new work,
without much competition in
their fields. At the moment their
main effort is concentrated on
completing the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co.’s pulp and newsprint
mills at Kawerau in the quickest
possible time, but there are plenty
of other jobs large and small on
hand as well.
Progress, constant adaptation,
improvement and expansion are
the rule of life for Fletcher cos.
With non - stop growth the
organisation showed a tendency
to become a little loose in places,
and last year regrouping was
planned. This year operations
are being consolidated under
seven subidiaries, which will be
the set-up as the combine flexes
its muscles for the tasks ahead.
There’s no sign of weakness in
tbe published results, which
suggest t b a t the situation was
taken hand in d time . The
m co/s 10 _ y ear trend is:
.. ,
•p" ’ profit? p?’. 1 Amount? serves,
£ & £,
JJJJ • ■ JMis « 27.808 lopns
1947 46,354 6 45,000 ne.eoi
ms .. 47,576 e 45 260 212.667
igso ; • 71 ’ >184 7 70)000 225,247
49,51 .. n. 860 7 70 000 227,098
1952 .. 102,834 8* 93,972 301,899
1953 146t149 8 * 123,996 191.600
1954 .. 206,842 10* 185.500 212,942
* Prefs. : 6 p.c. in these years, b prefs.
5 p. c . 1953 and 1954.
r .. .
Reserves are smalt by
standards set by most other lead-
ing N.Z. cos., but Fletchers have
never had any trouble in getting
funds to keep it going.


How much
advt
time will your
Executor have for affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (( Chairman ).
Dr. G. M. Barron, O.B.E,
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavfelU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater,
Manager ; N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland ,
Secretary ; p, H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart t
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
TJIGGEST mutual life office in the
** British Commonwealth, and a pillar
of strength in the Australian social and
economic structure, the 104-year-old
A.M.P. has just presented policyholders
—there are no shareholders—with a very
pleasing set of accounts. They disclose
satisfactory and widening margins in all
those matters upon which soundness and
progress depend, and are a fine testimony
to the quality of the control.
Features are (1) a record amount of
new business, (2) marked growth in sur-
plus available for distribution, (3) a 14
p.c. increase in bonus rates, (4) strong
actuarial and other reserves, (5) con-
tinued improvement in the rate of interest
earned, (6) reduction in the expense rate,
or cost of handling the business, and (7)
an investment policy which gives grounds
for confidence in continued progress of
the undertaking.
Total amount of new business written
was £118,199,750 (up £9,493,985), of
which £107,821,284 (up £10,150,312) was
ordinary and £10,378,466 (down
£656,327) industrial. Group assurance
as a means of industrial superannuation,
life business associated with loans for
home-building, and wider recognition of
the value of life assurance from the
security aspect are the main factors be-
hind the spring in the ordinary figure.
Total income and what was done with
it in each department compare as
follows:
Ordinary Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec.. Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
, £ £ £ £ £
49.20,986,973 8.371,538 2,131,761 116,710 10,367,964
Surplus s&je assets .. .. . . 118,352
’50.22,982,991 9,181,103 2,301,274 94,193 11,406,421
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 66,048
'51.26,493,393 9,119,243 3,049,319 160,080 13,164,751
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 83,844
’52.28,309,830 10,349,872 3,363,399 96,730 14,499,829
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 27,481
’53.31,829,068 11,370,230 3,629,369 231,965 16,597,504
Surplus sale assets 20,328
Tax overprovided 1,672,793
Industrial Department.
_ To tal Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
. £ £ £ £ £
49.5,809,712 3;287,754 519,937 10,312 1,991,709
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 25,473
’50.6,039,972 2,947,861 543,628 6,352 2,542,131
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 14,175
’51.6,319,352 2,830.553 698,892 16,526 2,773,381
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 17,994
'52.6,592,718 2,651,234 1,437,396 8,820 2,495,268
Surplus sale assets .. ■.. .. 5,851
’53.6,933,058 3,072,346 1,428,491,18,630 2,413,591
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 4,248
Tax overprovided 408,488
Combining the figures of the two sec-
tions, the year’s total income was
£38,762,126 (up £3,859,578). Premiums
accounted for £29,160,952 (up £2,887,536)
and net interest rents, etc., for £9,601,174
(up £972,042), after deducting income
and land taxes (£474,843, down £156,870).
Claims were well within the amount
allowed for, and, after paying all legiti-
mate exes, and charges, including
£250,595 written-off the book-value of
assets, £19,011,095 of the year’s total
income remained. This amount, together
with £24,576 surplus on sale of assets and
£2,081,281 “transferred from provision
for taxation” following a recent High
Court decision, making £21,116,952 in all
was added to the life funds (£264,792,409,
up £20,616,952) and investment and con-
tingency reserves (£5,500,000, up
£500,000).
The surplus available for distribution
in the O.D. was £2,568,701 stronger.
due mainly to the transfer from tax pro-
visions already mentioned;
1952. 1953.
Assurance funds .. £201,964,087 £220,064,712
Actuarial liability ~ 196,740,458 212,212,382
Surplus .. .. £5,223,629 £7.792,330
Bonus policyholders .. 5,153,640 6,331,759
Reserve contingencies .. 1,000,000
Reserve interim bonuses 40,000 50,000
Carried forward .. .. 29,989 410,571
The amount actually distributed (up
£1,178,119) provided reversionary
bonuses totalling over £10,900,000 at
rates 14 p.c. in excess of the previous
year’s, which were claimed to be then un-
surpassed by other life offices.
Of the year’s premium income, man-
agement exes, took 14.69 p.c. in the O.D.
and 25.33 p.c. in the I.D, or 0.62 p.c
and 1.04 p.c. respectively less than in the
previous year. Mechanisation of much
actuarial and other routine office-work
contributed to the improvement.
Net interest earnings were equal to
£3 16s lid. p.c. (up 2s. 4d. p.c.) on the
assurance funds, which exclude the in-
vestment and contingency reserves. Fur-
ther improvement in the net rate can be
expected during the current term. All but
a small fraction of policy liabilities are
valued on a stringent 2\ p.c. basis.
The big additions to funds and reserves,
drop in the expense rate, improvement in
the rate of interest earned, and other
things, all augur well for maintenance of
the increased rates of bonuses to policy-
holders.
The* large investment portfolio is spread
in this way;
1952. 1953-
_ £ P.c. £ p.c.
Government
securitiesf . 140,939,431 55.1 147,311,569 53.1
Mortgages .. 76,058,447 -29.7 86,560,778 81.2
Loans policies . 12,512,616 4.9 12,719,642 4.6
Shares and
debentures .. 17,455,545 6.8 20,727,373 7.5
Debtors, etc.f . 3,705,907 1.4 4,174,854 1.5
Cash .. .. 55,146 0.2 33,490 0.1
Freeholds, etc. 4,900,522 1.9 5,615,446 2.0
Total assets . 255,627,614 277,143,147
Liabilities* ~ 6,186,499 6,554,864
Net assets .. 249,441,115 270,588,283
f Includes local and semi-government securities,
i Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
The growth in net assets was £21,147,168.
Mortgages (up £10,502,326), Government
securities (up £6,372,138) and shares and
debentures (up £3,271,828) received most
attention. Freeholds, etc. (up £714,924)
include the society’s big land-develop-
ment project, Coonalpyn Downs (S.
Aust.), where the first pasture holdings
were recently taken-up, and an increas-
ing number will become available over
the next few years.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
before has this big, integrated
organisation—largest and most suc-
cessful of its kind in the Common-
wealth —gleaned a richer harvest or made
a higher rate of distribution than for
the year to February 28, 1954. The
figures are a crowning testimony to the
enterprise and achievement of the Wun-
derlich brothers, Ernest (who founded
the business in 1885), Alfred and Otto,
of whom Alfred (now chairman) is the
remaining survivor.
From 18 factories scattered through-
out Australia, the co, supplies the build-
ing and construction trades with terra-
cotta roofing-tiles, asbestos-cement (dura-
bestos) sheets, architectural facings, shop-
fronts and a variety of pressed-steel fit-
tings, etc.
Shareholders have never failed to
receive a div., average for the 17 years to
1947 being 6 p.c., followed by two lots
of 9\ p<c., four of 10 p.c. and then 15
p.c. last term. The co. is now reaping
the benefits of post-war additions to and
modernisation of plant and equipment,
whose expanding output has not yet
overtaken the order-book, and which has
been financed largely out of surplus
earnings and £560,000 of long-term loan-
money from the A.M.P. This loan-money
and the co’s own 7 p.c. pref. capital
(£160,000 in a paid capital of £707,633)
are both earning a lot more than their
keep.
The slackened pace of activity in the
building-trade during 1952 did mo
more than shorten the time-lag be-
tween order and delivery dates. Last year
Australian production of terra-cotta tiles
was 61.4 million and of Cement-building-
sheets 25.42 million square yards, com-
pared with 53.9 million and 15.9 million
square yards respectively for 1952.
Wunderlich’s net earnings took a leap
of £49,921:
, Dividends———^
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1950.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.C.=46,213 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £13,600 .. .. 271,161
Share premiums, £4B .. .. .. 271,209
1951. .127,557 11,200 10 p.c.=54,763 61,594 332.803
To staff partners, £19,900 .. .. 312,903
1952. .147,963 11,200 10 p.c.=54,764 81,999 394,902
To, staff partners, £22,650 .. ..372,252
1953. .162,306 11.200 10 p.c.=54,764 96,342 468,594
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,094
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets. £81,684 524,778
1954. .212,227 11,200 15 p.e.=82,144 118,883 643,661
* After payment divs. on staff partnership certificates
(£8423, 1954). f After deducting goodwill
(£73,888).
The £212,227 of profit was written after
allowing an extra £46,848 for deprecia-
tion (£181,763), unstated amounts for
taxation and possible fluctuation in stock
values, and deducting divs. (£8423) on
staff - partnership certificates. The
£212,227 covered pref. requirements
(£11,200) and 36,7 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 27.6, 24.9, 21.2, 18.9 and 19.1
p.c. back to 1949. The div. was lifted
to p.c. and a 2\ p.c. bonus was added,
making 15 p.c. for the year. The £118,883
(56 p.c.) of the year’s net earnings that
remained, together with £81,684 from
“specific provision” (possibly taxation)
and surplus on sale of investments,
lifted reserves to £643,661, after deduct-
ing goodwill (£73,888).
Continued growth and marked im-
provement in the financial position are
features of balance-sheet figures;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital;—
Pref £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Ord 547,633 547,633 547,633
Reserves.. ~ 372,252 443,094 643,661
Mortgages .. 220,000 500,000 560,000
Creditors, etc.*,, 1,018,767 1,198,275 1,128,632
Staff funds .. 152,750 175,300 173,050
£2,471,402 £3,024,302 £3,212,876
Freeholds.. ~ 893,091 435,686 448,510
Plant, etc. . . 512,638 704,559 674,838
Stocks .. . . 1,048,288 1,297,392 1,356,793
Book debts .. 338,972 391,079 423,871
Cash, investments,
etc 183,413 195,686 ✓ 308,864
£2,471,402 £3,024,302 £3,212,876
* Including tax provision and final divs.
The net amount of working capital, or
more-or-less liquid surplus (£227,946),
increased by £217,364. Cash and invest-
ments (up £113,178) include shares in
associated cos. (£123,444), mainly H. L.
Brisbane and Wunderlich (£98,442),
Perth.
With the emphasis in public policy on
home-building and immigration, without
resort to inflationary measures, the out-
look is one of sustained demand for the
co.’s products for some time to come.
The 15 p.c. distribution surprised the
market —a year or so ago the board’s
declared aim was to stabilise the div. at
10 p.c.—and the price of the f.-p, £1
ords. shot up from 495. 6d. at the end
of April to 575. following publication
of the account. The return at 575. is
5.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution. The first
and second prefs. at 245. 6d. and 245.
yield 5.7 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. respectively.
The third prefs. seldom appear on
’Change. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £33 15s. Bd. firsts, £32 15s. Bd. sec-
onds, £l5 17s. lOd. thirds, and 435. 6d.
ords.
Brunton’s Holdings, Ltd.
'T'HE outlook for the Australian flour-
-1 milling industry has lost much of
its recent brightness, owing to the changed
situation in world wheat supplies and
prices, and consequent drop in quantity
and value of Australian flour exports.
The Brunton organisation, however, is
well equipped to win whatever profits
are to be earned in the trade.
Formed in Sydney in Oct., 1951, the
present holding co. took over two old-
established flour-milling businesses —T.
Brunton and Co. (Melbourne) and Brun-
ton and Co. (Sydney). The price paid
was £288,548 (in scrip) for net tangible
assets (two operating cos. combined) with
a book-value of £284,009. No goodwill
to weigh down the earning-power of
share capital was involved in the deal.
The freehold properties and plant
acquired, which figured at £260,601, were
insured for £1,213,525. Then, to reduce
the outside debt (chiefly the overdraft)
provide more working capital and qualify
for listing of its shares on ’Change, the
holding co. offered the public 245,802
new ss. shares at par, thus lifting paid
capital to £350,000 in ss. shares.
The mills, two in Victoria (Melbourne
and Rupanyup) and two in N, S, Wales
(Clyde and Gunhedah), have a total
annual capacity of 4,500,000 bushels of
wheat and some 95,000 tons of flodr, and
turn out bran, pollard, wheatmeal and
stockmeal as well. The flour, some of
which appears as well-known proprietary
lines, sells in both local and export
markets. Locally the buying-price of
wheat and selling-price of flour are con-
trolled. The export market is an open
one, which of recent years has provided
much wider profit margins than the home
market, and therefore accounted for a
large slice of millers’ net earnings.
The value of flour exports for the nine
months to March 31, 1954, were 15 p.c.
less than for the corresponding period of
1953. For the month of March alone
the 1954 figure was over 42 p.c. below
the 1953 one. The contraction in Brun-
ton’s net earnings for the year to Feb. 28
last was £14,110;
Brunton-’s Holdings and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.f
£ £> £ &
1952.. 65,785 10 p.c. = 35,000 ? 28,275 112,766
Prelim, exes, written off, £2460 J
Excess tax provision, £5252 .. .. 118,017
1953.. 51,625 10 p.c. = 35,000 16,626 134,642
t Subject to £89,690 excess cost over par value of
shares in subsidiaries.
The £51,625 of profit was- written after
allowing £12,627 (down £1460) for depre-
ciation and £35,572 (down £49,069) for
taxation. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an excess, tax-provision of £5252 in
1953, which lias now been added to free
reserves. The £51,625 was 14.7 p.c. on
capital as against 18.7 p.c. for the previous
term. So the 10 p.c. div. was repeated
with a comfortable margin.
But mill output has contracted sharply,
and so have selling prices in the export
market, since the close of accounts, and
the outlook is glum. “Members must
expect greatly reduced earnings in the
current year, and a reduction in the divi-
dend rate,” the board says. Appearances
are that selling-prices fojr flour in this
export market might ease further yet
before bottom is touched.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
changing position:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
June,’s2. Feb.,’s3. Feb.,’s4.
Paid capital .. £350,000 £350,000 £360,000
Reserves.. ~ 84,621 112,765 134,642
Creditors, etc. .. 1 „ 01 „„„ f 81,632 159,538
Tax provision .. j \ 82,637 35,793
Inter-co. suspense 27,666 8,963
Final div. .. 17,500 17,500
£755,847 £672,100 £706,436
Freeholds .. 110,363 111,243 112,919
Plant .. .. 150,238 147,452 168,191
Stock , . .. 98,857 57,890 94,182
Debtors . . 234,790 240,870 240,891
Inter-co. suspense 58,458
Cash, etc. .. 10,991 24,955 563
Intangibles .. 92,150 89,690 89,690
£755,847 £672,100 £706,436
* Accounts of subsidiaries made up to October 31
and November 30.
To carry an extra £36,292 of stocks, add
£20,739 net to plant and reduce tax-
liabilities by £46,844, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £24,392 net and £78,006 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. There was little change


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neya, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettingr Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Ellters, Steam Valves,
Insurance Supervision
RAWIRINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445, BU 3446, BU 1409.
in the ratio of liquids to liabilities
at 1.5 to 1.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares, which eased from 9s. a
year ago to Bs. 2d. at the end of
February, had dropped to 6s.
last week. The return at 6s,
would be 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is ss. Bd.
New Broken Hill Consolid’d
TPHE co.’s mine, which adjoins
that of Zinc Corp. at the
southern end of the line of lode
at the Barrier (N.S.W.), is well
on the way to becoming one of
the world’s big, high-grade lead-
zinc producers. Last term
£844,941 was spent on shaft-
sinking and mine-development
(£526,068) and on plant, etc.
(£318,873), with a consequent
marked increase in output and
operating efficiency.
Still, the gains in these respects
were insufficient to offset the
effects of the sharp fall in metal
prices, and there was a contrac-
tion of £144,758 in declared net
earnings:
Dec., Profit. Dividends.! Reserves.
£* £* £*
1949. .404,014 30 p.c. = 184,898 2,558,339
From tax reserve, £155,000 2,713,339
Net unexp. addition, £6402 2,719,741
1950. . 472,731 30 p.c. = 179,295 3,013,177
Net unexp. addition, £10,671 3,023,848
1951. . 619,024 50 p.c. = 294.156 3,348,716
Net unexp. addition, £8252.. 3,356,968
From tax reserve, £37,848.. 3,394,816
1952. .558,020 30 p.c. = 180,695 3,772,141
Net unexp. addition, £15,259 3,787,400
From tax reserve, £36,987 3,824,387
1953. .413,262 30 p.c. = 184,898 4,052,751
t Rate of div. is that declared, but amount
is shown after deducting English tax.
* Sterling.
The £413,262 of profit was writ-
ten after allowing for develop-
ment (£113,807, down £137,877),
depreciation (£277,400, up
£31,800) and taxation £264,660,
up £3900). It leaves out of the
reckoning a net unexplained
addition to reserves of £15,259
as well as £36,987 overprovided
for taxation in previous years.
The £413,262 was 36.8 p.c. on
the £1,120,592 of capital com-
pared with 49.8, 55.2, 42.1 and
36 p.c. back to 1949. The
nominal rate of div. was kept
at 30 p.c., because money is
wanted for further development
of the undertaking. The 30 p.c.
is nominal because U.K. income
tax of 9s. in the £ reduces the net
rate in the hands of shareholders
to 16.5 p.c. sterling, equal to 20.7
p.c. in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange.
The increase in the quantity of
ore milled was 168,184 tons, or
69 p.c., and the grade was slightly
better;
Ore Grade
Milled, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1951.. 211,608 8.6 2.0 12.3
1952.. 235,478 8.5 1.9 12.4
1953.. 403,662 8.8 2.0 13.7
The co.’s own mill, first section
of which started up in Sept.,
1952, handled 227,850 tons of
last year’s feed, and Zinc Corp’s
mill treated the other 175,812
tons. Capacity of the co.’s own
plant is to be steadily lifted to
540,000 tons per annum.
Production of lead concen-
trates was 44,031 tons (up 18,747
tons) and of zinc concentrates
100,356 tons (up 48,518 tons).
The latter assayed 51.5 p.c. zinc,
and the former contained 32,459
tons (up 14,029 tons) of lead and
645,1660 z. (up 239,3650 z.) of
silver. '
In Australia control of selling-
prices for lead and zinc ceased
on April 17, 1953. Since then
the, equivalent of overseas prices
has ruled on the local rfiarket.
London prices for lead and zinc
during 1953 averaged £591.5
(down £SSB) and £574.7 (down
£574.5). During 1954 the aver-
age London price of lead
strengthened from £582.6 for
February to £594.5 for May and
to £S9B on June 7, The figures
for zinc were £572.2 February,
£579.6 May and £SBI June 7.
The chairman summed up the
year’s operations and the outlook
in this way:
Marked increase in operating
efficiency resulted in production ex-
ceeding the original long-term target
for 1954; and the improvement in
overall costs, coupled with disposal
of almost the whole of our output,
brought a large measure of compensa-
tion for the sharp decline in prices
compared with 1952. While in this
current year we confidently anticipate
a further increase in efficiency, we
are nearly at the limit of tonnage
and grade pending the full operation
of the service shaft. Unless there
should be an increase in the prices
of lead and zinc (compared with last
year), it is unlikely that the profit for
1954 will show any improvement over
1953; and, that in 1955 and 1956,
assuming the continuance of the 1953
average level of prices of metal relative
to other commodities and services,
there should be a substantial increase
in profits, not only because of the
higher planned output, but also of
the somewhat higher average lead con-
tent of the ore scheduled for extraction
in those years.
Measure ore reserves at Dec.
31, 1954, were;
( Assay —^
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above No.
16 level . . 800,000 5.4 1.1 15.0
Below No.
16 level ..1,700,000 13.4 3.4 9.6
Total .. 2.500,000 10.9 2.7 11.4
Drilling and other development
in the first 1500 ft. south of Zinc
Corp’s boundary indicate at least
16,000,000 tons (including above
figures), averaging about 11 p.c.
lead, 3oz. silver and 12 p.c. zinc,
down to No. 22 level. With an
annual throughput of 540,000
tons ore there is thus a minimum
of 30 years’ work ahead of the
mill. The service shaft is now
down 3194 ft., or 28ft. below No.
22 level, and is scheduled to be
in full operation by November
next.
To meet the year’s capital out-
lay, already referred to, and carry
more stocks of metal (up
£148,000) and book-debts (up
£139,817), the co. drew upon
cash, etc., for £695,647;
1952. 1953.
Cash, Govt, bonds £1,052,269 £356,622
Debtors .. . . 33,098 172,915
Stocks ... ■ • 319,646 467,646
£1,450,013 £997,183
Less liabilities* .. 1,349,955 1,230,231
Net current assets £55,058 f £233,048
Machinery, etc. (less
depreciation) . . 1,854,153 1,896,801
Mine expenditure
account.. . . 2,983,522 3,509,590
Paid capital .. 1,120,592 1,120,592
Reserves .. .. 3,772,141 4,052,751
All amounts shown are sterling. * In-
cludes provision for taxation, t Net
deficit in 1953.
To see the programme of de-
velopment, etc., to completion,
£1,000,000 of 5£ p.c. unsecured
loan stock, redeemable 1956 to
1965, has been issued since the
close of accounts. Half the issue
is in “A” convertible stock,
holders of which have the right
to exchange each £5 of stock
into four f.-p. ss. shares (255.
each) before Nov. 30, 1958. The
other half of the loan is in “B”
unconvertible stock.
Keeping more or less in step
with the metal-market, the price
of the f.-p. ss. shares fell from
295. in Jan., 1953, to 235. 4d. in
April, rose to 30s.' in Dec., and
stood at 325. 9d. last week. At
325. 9d. the immediate return is
3.2 p.c. in Australian currency at
last term’s rate of distribution.
VICKERS LTD.
Sir Ronald Weeks’ Review of Group’s Manifold Activities.
The Eighty-seventh Annual
General Meeting of Vickers
Limited was held on May 20 in
London, England, Lieutenant-
General Sir Ronald M. Weeks,
K.C.8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C., T.D.,
the chairman, presiding. .
A detailed review by the chairman
of the group’s activities had been
circulated to members with the re-
port and accounts for the year
ended December 31, 1953, in the
course of which it was stated: —
Shipbuilding
Throughout 1953 the two ship-
yards of Vickers-Armstrongs were
successful in improving upon the
excellent progress that had been
made in the previous year.
The 10 ships launched during the
year had a grot-s tonnage of 135,000
tons and included the aircraft-
carrier H.M.S. “Hermes.” For this
great occasion the Barrow shipyard
was glad .to welcome Lady Churchill,
who sponsored the vessel.
The naval yard once again had
an outstanding year when three pas-
senger liners, two cargo passenger
liners, and three large bulk oil car-
riers were completed, totalling some
98,000 gross tons, an all time record
for the yard.
While the number of forward
bookings for ship repair at Palmers
Hebburn Company Ltd. is normal,
there is no doubt that the con-
sistently high volume of work which
has been secured for a long time is
no longer available.
Cockatoo Docks, Sydney
Shipbuilding and conversion work
for the Royal Australian Navy have
occupied the greater part of the
resources of the Cockatoo Dockyard
during the year. Considerable pro-
gress has been made on the fitting
out of H.M.A.S. ‘VOYAGER,’ the
first Australian “Daring” Class
destroyer and the machinery for this
ship is practically complete. The
hull of the second “Daring” is pro-
gressing, the conversion of H.M.A.S.
‘QUEBNBOROUGH’ to a fast anti-
submarine vessel is nearing comple-
tion and work on H.M.A.S.
‘QUIBERON’ is proceeding well.
Preparations are being made to
begin work on the fast anti-
submarine frigates, which are to fol-
low the “Darings.”
The volume of ship repair work
in Sydney has fallen recently, but
the dockyard has obtained its share
of the work available.
The condition of the plant has
been further improved and, in addi-
tion, a considerable number of new
machine tools was installed. The
Apprentices Training Scheme, which
is a feature of the organisation,
continues its successful operation
and a full quota of apprentices has
been obtained in most trades.
The cordial relations which exist
between the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and the Company have been
maintained.
Aviation
The production lines for three
major types of aircraft—Valiant,
Viscount, and Swift—have been
built up and additional jigging and
the tooling necessary to raise Vali-
ant and Swift production to the
scale now required is nearing com-
pletion.
All the Weybridge production
capacity is now devoted to meeting
the high rate of output required by
the R.A.F. of the Valiant bomber.
The year has seen the Viscount
come into full production and 23
aircraft were delivered, 17 to British
European Airways and six to Air
Prance.
The profit capabilities of
the aircraft have been confirmed by
official statements describing' the
Viscount as BEA’s most economic
aircraft.
Firm orders amounted to 86 (in-
cluding those already delivered)
with further orders in an advanced
state of negotiation.
Work has started in our experi-
mental shops on a prototype of a
long range military jet transport,
the V.lOOO which is specifically
designed to make the most efficient
use of the Rolls-Royce Conway by-
pass engine.
A number of production Swifts
was built during . the year. The
usual development troubles associ-
ated with a new aeroplane have
caused some delay in production,
but it is hoped that these are now
under control.
The Supermarine works has in
hand a large order from the Royal
Navy for the production of a twin-
engined naval fighter; tooling for
this aircraft is under way.
An Australian Company, Vickers-
Armstrongs (Australia) Proprietary
Limited, has been formed to cover
the activity of the Guided Weapons
Team and aviation commitments
particularly those concerning the
Viscounts for Trans-Australia Air-
lines. Buildings at Salisbury are
being made available by the Aus-
tralian Department of Supply, and
the trials at the Long Range
Weapon Establishment are continu-
ing according to programme.
Road and Rail Transport
The hletropolitan-Cammell Car-
riage and Wagon Company Limited
started the year with a record order
book and also achieved a new record
in deliveries from their railway
rolling stock factories.
Over 70 per cent, of the value of
output was produced for export
orders.
The value of orders received dur-
ing the year was appreciably lower
than the total of deliveries. This
reflected the combined effects of
a falling off in inquiries owing to
decreased purchasing power and in-
tensified competition from European
and other overseas manufacturers.
As these highly competitive condi-
tions will continue, greater pro-
ductive effort to reduce costs will
be necessary and the provision of
extended credit facilities will be re-
quired to retain overseas markets.
Engineering
The contribution of engineering to
the volume of the country’s exports
has grown steadily in recent years,
and overseas markets continue to be
a major source of demand for the
group’s products in the fields of
both heavy and light engineering.
Competition is particularly severe in
the market for many types of
specialized equipment required in
secondary industry and it is hoped
that the completion of new designs
will enable the present rate of out-
put to be maintained.
The production of Centurion tanks
has continued and a useful contribu-
tion has been made to British ex-
ports by the supply of Centurions
to N.A.T.O. countries.
Important orders have been
obtained for “British Clearing” pres-
ses and press brakes and, in spite
of foreign competition, prospects for
future orders for presses of this
type are excellent.
Vickers VRIBO tractors are now
in operation in various territories
throughout the world and valuable
information has been gained on their
performance. There are still a
number of mechanical and other
problems which must be associated
with a new product of this nature,
but these are being dealt with
effectively.
The substantial holding in Old-
ings (Hatfield) Limited, the parent
company of the Olding group, was
further increased during the year
and that company has now become
a subsidiary of Vickers Limited. The
most important operating company
in that group is, of course, Jack
Olding and Co. Limited. In addi-
tion to being world distributors for
the Vickers tractor and its ancillary
equipment, Oldings market through-
out the world the earth-moving pro-
ducts made by Onions and Sons.
They also handle a wide range of
other earth-moving, road-making,
and .agricultural machinery.
Onions and Sons (Levellers)
Limited made considerable progress
in 1953 both in the development of
their products and in improvements
to production capacity.
The development of three new
sizes of open.bowl scraper has made
it possible for scraper equipment to
be supplied not only for Vickers
Tractors, but for all types and sizes
of tractor, both British and
American.
Engineering in Australia
Output was well maintained at
Vickers Ruwolt Pty. Limited, and, in
spite of curtailment in demand from
the mining, rubber and paper in-
dustries, 1953 was a successful year.
In association with Robert Boby
Limited, Ruwolts entered the malt-
ing equipment industry, completing
one large installation and several
smaller ones, while good progress
was made on a further large instal-
lation. , „
Extensions to the Iron Foundry
were completed and the reorganisa-
tion of the Steel Foundry has gone
ahead. The substantial increases in
costs during the year and the
greater caution observed by buyers
have resulted in a greatly decreased
volume of orders, but it is expected
that the position will improve in
1954.
The demand for paint making
machinery has not improved, while
orders for the brewing and bottling
equipment made were 20 per cent,
below that of the preceding year.
Work has continued on machines
for the glass bottle industry and
valuable orders have been received.
Robert Boby Limited have had
another satisfactory year, although
there has been a slight recession in
turnover.
The new malting at Grimsby for
Sandars & Co., Ltd., was completed
during the year and is now in full
production. The plant, which is
the most modern of its type in the
country, was very favourably re-
viewed in the technical journals.
Powers - Samas Accounting
Machines Limited has completed an-
other year of progress and develop-
ment. The volume of orders taken
in the home market has been satis-
factory, but difficulties have been
encountered overseas owing to in-
creasing competition. Considerable
progress has been made by the
Underwood Corporation in building
up a sales organization in the
United States and the same corpora-
tion is now marketing the company’s
products in Canada.
The first Powers-Samas electronic
machines are now in operation and
are giving excellent service.
Chairman’s Speech
In the course of his address to
the meeting the chairman said: —
On March 5, 1954, H.M. Sub-
marine “Explorer” was launched at
Barrow by Lady Reid Young. This
vessel attracted considerable interest
in the Press as embodying a new
and advanced system of submarine
propulsion. Thus the Barrow Yard,
which has built submarines for H.M.
Navy for over 50 years, is still to-
day in the forefront of the develop-
ment of this important arm of the
Service.
First deliveries of the Swift were
made to the Royal Air Force in
February, 1954, and in that month
the first squadron was formed.
Oh the Naval side, tooling in pre-
paration for production of the twin-
jet Naval fighter, for which we have
a substantial order, is well advanced
at Supermarine. We believe it will
provide the Navy with a very high
performance fighter capable of
adaptation to other roles.
The Type 525, which is a swept-
back twin engine aircraft developed
from the 508, made its first flight on
April 27, 1954.
I referred last year to the forma-
tion of a Guided Weapons team in
our Aircraft Division. We have
expanded the facilities and man-
power in this group in order to
meet the heavy programme entrusted
to us by the Ministry of Supply.
Commercial Activities
Eight merchant ships were
launched from the two shipyards of
Vickers-Armstrongs in 1953, includ-
ing in May the new Orient liner
“ORSOVA,” the largest all-welded
liner in the world.
On February 16, 1954, we were
honoured by the visit of H.R.H. the
Duchess of Kent to the Naval Yard
to launch the tanker “WORLD
HARMONY” for Mr. Stavros
Niarchos.
During 1953 we have completed
and delivered “CITY OF EXETER,”
“CITY OP YORK,” and “MAORI,”
also three larger tankers for Mr.
Niarchos’s organization and two
cargo passenger ships for Alfred
Holt & Co.
Orders placed and, indeed, in-
quiries for new building were greatly
below the high level which was
obtained during the years since the
end of the war when British and
foreign shipowners were replacing
tonnage lost by enemy action or
which had become obsolete.
One result of the heavy bookings
which our yards, together with those
of other British shipbuilders, re-
ceived during the post-war years
has been that foreign shipbuilders
have been able to offer shorter
deliveries. This, combined with the
unfortunate but indisputable fact
that building costs in certain foreign
countries are now lower than in
this country, has meant that over-
seas competition is being felt very
seriously.
The shipyards of Vickers-Arnv
strongs are, however, fully booked
for some time to come, and I am
glad to be able to mention that
in March of this year we obtained
an order from the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company for a 23,000-ton
passenger liner.
Substantial orders have been re-
ceived for our British clearing
presses manufactured at Elswick and
Scotswood, where we are expanding
our capacity to meet the increased
demands expected.
The aircraft division has now com-
pleted successfully the transfer to
Hum of the Viscount production
line, and the production rate is being
expanded to this year’s target of
four aircraft a month.
Following the figures of sales men-
tioned in the chairman’s review we
have secured further contracts and
the order book now shows a total
of 93 Viscounts, including 12 air-
craft of the 800 Series for B.E.A.
The first of the six Viscounts for
Trans-Australia Airlines is now
approaching completion. Good pro-
gress has also been made with the
construction of the first of the
fifteen aeroplanes for Trans-Canada
Air Lines and arrangements are
being made for the flight delivery of
these aircraft across the North
Atlantic to Montreal.
We are very conscious of our re-
sponsibility to the operator after he
has purchased Viscounts, and we
shall spare no effort to build up and
maintain a really strong and effici-
ent after sales service. As the need
arises, additional bases, over and
above Uose already established, will
be set up in various parts of the
world.
Exports and Overseas Interests
Of our total turnover in 1953,
exports account for 28 per cent.
In March, 1954, our friends,
Metropolitan-Vickers, took a con-
tract for £7m., against very keen
competition, for the electrified ser-
vices of the Central Railway of
Brazil. A large share of this order
will be executed by our associated
company, Metropolitan j Canamell
Carriage and Wagon Co. Limited, as
builders of the coaches. In the
last fortnight Metropolitan-Vickers
have secured a large order from
Irish State Transport, in which also
Metropolitan-Cammell have a con-
siderabel share.
Although currency restrictions and
non-availability of import licences
have continued to add to the difficul-
ties we have faced in the export
markets there has been a material
measure of relief in so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, and a reason-
able measure of success in that and
other - overseas territories.
As regards Australia, I have
already referred in the Review to the
formation of Vickers-Armstrongs
(Australia) Pty. Limited; Cockatoo
Docks & Engineering Co. Pty.
Limited and Vickers Ruwolt Pro-
prietary Limited have both had a
good year. Cockatoo not only builds
ships for the Royal Australian Navy,
but does a considerable amount of
ship repairing and commercial work ;
this Company is also able to render
good service to British Shipowners
in any emergency.
The new lease between Cockatoo
and the Australian Government for
Cockatoo Island, with the dry docks,
wharves, buildings and machinery,
etc., has now been executed, and
covers our activities for twenty
years.
Prospects
Shipyards will be fully occupied to
the end of 1956; Budget concessions
may encourage shipowners to place
orders and at the same time foreign
competition is a challenge to
builders to hold down costs in spite
of increased wages.
In all our multitude of commercial
products, prospects vary, but it is
quite clear that they are good as
regards clearing presses, cement
plants, Powers-Samas accouting
machines, and rolling stock, even
though competition is more intense.
We are well advanced with the
manufacture of the prototype of the
V.lOOO for the Ministry of Supply.
This is a prototype of a military
transport for the Royal Air Force
which will enable troops and equip-
ment to be carried for long dist-
ances at high speeds.
We have plans for a civil version
of this aeroplane which is capable of
a direct London-New York non-stop
crossing.
I am sufficiently optimistic to con-
clude by stating that, unless some
unforeseen factor arises, 1954 should
show an improvement on 1953.
The report and accounts were
adopted.


Women's Letters
srcNcy
The strength of the most inveterate
first-nighter was taxed by no fewer than
nine first-nights during the week. In
fact, as one cynic remarked, “What with
the ’flu and the mumps and the measles,
the most living thing around town at
present is the theatre.”
Unfortunately it was too cold for much
glamor at the opening nights, though Miss
Northcott at the Theatre Royal’s
“Reluctant Heroes” looked charming in
caramel paper-shantung with a brown fur
jacket, and Sue Playfair, who was in her
party, wore a bouffant gown of white
organdie. The Independent Theatre
opened “The Waltz of the Toreadors” by
Anouilh (he will keep on writing), the
Phillip-street Theatre started another
edition of “Top of the Bill,” the Metro-
politan put on the three one-acters set for
study for the Leaving this year (“Birds
of a Feather,” “Riders to the Sea” and
“The Proposal”), National Opera com-
menced both “II Trovatore” and “II
Seraglio,” there was Richard Murdoch
at the Palladium and Gounod’s “Romeo
and Juliet” at the Conservatorium, while
the Genesians began a season of a striking
play, “The Cockpit,” at their Kent-street
theatre.
Women guests at the opening of the
fourth season of National Opera of Aus-
tralia at the Empire Theatre covered their
dresses with anything from the most
luxurious furs to voluminous tweed coats
and even raincoats, but the variegated
headwear seen in the crowded foyer pre-
sented an even greater contrast. This
ranged all the way from a tiara (worn
by Mrs. N. A. Sharkey-Simpson with her
elaborate gold-brocade gown) to berets,
and included a black-lace mantilla (the
choice of Mrs. Jan Smuts), golden Juliet
caps, beaded black-velvet cocktail con-
fections and sensible fur-felts. Two men
even topped their formal evening-dress
with tweed motoring-caps.
With so many beautiful gowns hidden
beneath fur wraps, the effect of a gala
first-night audience was dimmed to wintry
dinginess, but this lack of color was
more than made up for by a continuous
rosy glow from the stage, where Alick
McKenzie’s rich decor and costumes
for “11 Trovatore” warmed and cheered.
Warm, too, was the reception given to
personable young Melbourne tenor, Ray-
mond McDonald, who stepped into the
role of Manrico when Ronald Dowd,
whose voice was affected by a cold,
couldn’t continue beyond the second act.
The founder of the National Opera
Company in Sydney, Mrs. C. T. Lorenz,
who received good-wishes and congratu-
lations in the foyer before the curtain
went up, was one of the few women not
huddling in a warm wrap. She draped
a cream-chiffon scarf embroidered with
mother-of-pearl sequins over her black-
and-white sheer gown. Dr, and Mrs.
T. Bateman watched the performance
with her from one of the boxes. Mrs.
Bateman wore a dark-blue gown, finely
embroidered all over in white.
A number of women wore white. Three
of the most striking were Mrs. Roger
Dunlop’s long-sleeved, draped jersey,
worn with an ermine stole, Mrs. Walter
Running’s “architecturally”-styled gown
with its tiered skirt like a spiral staircase,
and the slim-fitting crepe dress of Miss
Nancy Salas. Some beautiful white furs
were worn by young members of the
audience, including Mrs. David Lloyd
Jones, Mrs. Charles Parsons and Miss
Anne Barnett.
Among the many representatives of the
State Government, diplomatic and Con-
sular corps and citizens connected with
the opera movement who attended were
leader of the State Opposition Mr.
Vernon Treatt and Mrs. Treatt, Dr. and
Mrs. Roberto Regala, Mr. and Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan and Mr. W. J. Bradley.
☆ ☆ ☆
The ball of the week was the University
Settlement Ball, whose presentation of
debutantes in the Great Hall of the Uni-
versity is always a feature of the social
round. This year the debutantes were
presented to the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim. They were
met at the entrance to the Great Hall by
the Chancellor, Sir Charles Bickerton-
Blackburn, who presented to their Excel-
lencies the Deputy-Chancellor, Dr. C. G.
McDonald, the Vice-Chancellor Dr. S. H.
Roberts, the Registrar, Mr, W. H. Maze,
the president of the University Settlement,
Dr, Felix Arnott, and Mrs. Macdonald
Holmes, chairman of the ball-committee.
Mrs. Macdonald Holmes presented a bou-
quet of delicate pastel flowers to Lady
Slim, who wore decorations and who
looked very glamorous in a gown of pale-
green satin worn with a tiara and a platina
cape.
To a fanfare of trumpets the official
party, brilliant in their academic robes,
moved down the Great Hall to the dais,
where, after “God Save the Queen” had
been sung and a second fanfare sounded.
Dr. Arnott, in his scarlet gown, presented
Mrs. Roscoe Hoyle, as matron-of-honor,
to Sir William and Lady Slim. There
were 52 and after they had
been presented they waltzed in the Great
Hall to the strains of Strauss played by
Mrs. J. Moran. (This was the first time
the new Steinway piano in the Great Hall
had been played at a Settlement Ball.)
The debs, and their partners then formed
a guard-of-honor the full length of the
hall for their Excellencies, who proceeded
to the Union Refectory, where they were
received by Professor and Mrs. Mac-
donald Holmes.
While the undergraduates and debu-
tantes danced with their friends in the
Refectory, the Vice-Regal party were
entertained at a sherry-party and at
supper in the Holmeroom, which had
been beautifully decorated with grapes
and camellias by Mrs. Tom Bateman.
Later the University Pipe Band “piped”
them over to the Refectory, where they
were again greeted by the debs., this time
grouped in a semi-circle round their
“debutante” cake, which Lady Slim graci-
ously cut for them and congratulated the
maker. Miss D. Oxenford, on its beauty.
There were 600 dancers at the ball, with
100 more in the Great Hall, mostly
parents of the debs, who had helped Mrs,
J. Gourlay arrange the flowers.
To extend good wishes to Miss Eliza-
beth Northcott on her forthcoming
marriage and to express appreciation of
the interest she has always taken in
women’s activities, a large reception will
be held by Sydney women at the Troca-
dero on June 28. The president of the
National Council of Women, Mrs. John
Metcalfe, and her committee are organis-
ing the reception, but it will not be limited
to the council or those organisations
affiliated with it. Tickets are available
at the N.C.W. office, 166 Phillip-street,
Sydney, and it is hoped the function will
be as representative of Sydney women as
possible. Photo by Falk.
Congratulations to all those Australian
women who were honored by her Majesty
in the Birthday Honors. Awarded the
0.8. E. were Mrs. Mabel E. Furley (Mos-
man, N.S.W.), Miss Nora McKid
(matron, Kyogie Hospital, N.S.W.), Mrs.
Violet M. Herring (Ascot, Queensland),
Mrs. Ada M. Norris (Camberwell, Vic-
toria) and Lady Bonython (South Aus-
tralia).
Created Members of the British Em-
pire were Mrs. Eileen K. Brown
(Toronto, N.S.W.), Mrs. Kathleen N.
Dennis (Greenwich, N.S.W.), Mrs. Ida
Cohen (Tamworth, N.S.W.), Mrs. Isa-
bella Flack (Hay, N.S.W.), Miss Alice J.
Carr (matron. State Hospital, Lidcombe,
N.S.W.), Miss Olive M. Dyer (Prince
Henry Hospital, Sydney), Miss Mona
Fitzgerald (Eiioggera, Queensland),
Miss Clarice L. Greenhill (secretary
to the Australian Consul - General
in New York), Mrs. Olive Gray
(Malvern, Victoria), Mrs. Nelly Ibbott
(Mornington, Victoria), Mrs. Violet S.
Coltheart (Queenstown, Tasmania),
Miss Dorothy R. Hail (Fairbridge
Society), Mrs. Kathleen Huston
(Launceston, Tasmania), Mrs. Edith
Mehrtens (Adelaide),' Miss Mabel
Lavan (Australian High Commissioner’s
Office, London), Miss Dorothy Leggett
(Cooper’s Plains, Queensland), Mrs.
Frances M. Smith (South Yarra, Vic-
toria), Mrs. Mary S. Stevenson (Can-
berra), Mrs. Gertrude Woinarsky (Men-
tone, Victoria), Miss Nellie O’Connell
(matron, Gladesville Hospital) and Mrs.
Daphne Filleul (Tasmania).
MELBOURNE
The reception held at Government
House by the Governor and Lady Brooks
in honor of the Queen’s birthday was
attended by 650 guests, among whom were
representatives of the Church Judiciary,
the three Services, the Government and
City Council. Glowing poinsettias and
red holly-berries were arranged with green
foliage and hydrangeas in the ballroom,
while in the State drawing-room, where
guests were received, fires blazed cheerily
and huge bowls of yellow “pokers” and
brown and bronze foliage with green
hydrangeas were set on tables. There
was no dancing ; guests strolled around
the ballroom, in which was set an island
of green ferns and flowers.
Lady Brooks received her guests wear-
ing a lovely gown of magnolia satin, the
off-the-shoulder bodice of which was
richly trimmed with flower motifs in
pearls, opalescent and mother-of-pearl
sequins, the skirt very full and trained.
With it Lady Brooks wore a diamond
tiara. Mrs. Harold Holt’s gown of rich-
gold satin was embroidered with gold
sequins. Mrs. John Cain, wife of the
Premier, wore soft-pink satin with satin
petals embroidered with pearls and
diamente on the bodice, Mrs. W. Kent
Hughes chose ice-blue chiffons. Mrs.
Cyril Tonkin’s wide skirt of white
Chantilly lace was allied to a bodice of
black lace. A striking gown of black
crepe, heavily embroidered in white on
bodice and wide skirt, was worn by Mrs.
John Inkster. Very pale-pink moire and
a white Arctic-fox stole were the choice
of Mrs. Rupert Downes. An outstanding
gown was worn by Mrs. Norman Carlyon.
It was of pearl-pink duchesse-satin, and
the wide skirt had * huge motifs of
embroidery and flowers worked in mother-
of-pearl cabuchons and finished with a
flat satin bow.
Mrs. Sidney Myer’s slim gown of
orchid-pink faille had a sweeping back-
panel of pink, grey and white taffeta.
Mrs. Henry Bolte chose apricot satins
finished with pearl and amethyst
embroideries, Mrs. Bernard Evans a white
nylon gown and full-length coat of
peacock-blue satin. A pink-satin sash,
finished with a bustle in which pink roses
nestled, completed the simple white
chiffon gown worn by Mrs. Everard
Baillieu. Lady Collins, wife of Vice-
Admiral Collins, wore a lovely gown of
Parma-violet satin; her daughter Gillian
wore white tulle with pink roses set on
the bodice and a pink-satin sash.
* ☆ ft
It is always a shattering experience to
view spring- and summer-fashions in the
dead of winter, but it becomes pleasant
when winter can be forgotten in the
warmth of the salon in which they are
seen. This is what happened when
Ecstasy showed their styles for the com-
ing season, when the smart woman will
be wearing glazed-chintz frocks. These
chintzes are printed in gay, colorful
English-garden scenes and in forested
hunting-scenes. The materials are soft
and silken in finish.
Cottons are well in the picture, and
there are mousselines, jacquards, alpacas,
denims, piques and voiles in a large
variety. No fashion-picture is complete
without nylon, which was seen in opaque
and clear taffetas, in crepon, voile, lace
and net. Silks were expressed in organza,
taffetas, crepe de Chine and Honan.
Then there were the cotton-and-nylon
mixtures, the silk-and-wool and rayon-
and-siljk combinations.
Leading colors will be cornflower,
bachelor-blue,' periwinkle, Atlantic-blue,
and always navy. In the bieges and
browns there are pomander, string, cara-
mel and cognac. Pinks'include candle,
blotting-paper, magnolia-bloom, crushed-
raspberry, and there are two new greys:
sterling and panorama.
Ecstasy has featured the “princess
line,” made popular by Christian Dior.
This was expressed in graceful, beltless
frocks, with a high bustline, emphasised
by a softly-draped bodice and the waist
slimmed by a wide coreslet cummer-
bund. It was also charmingly expressed
in a pure-silk frock printed with flowers
in lemon, blue and rose-pink, on a grey
background. The deep cummerbund was
in plain grey silk.
A black frock —a “must” in every
woman’s wardrobe — was seen in
a wool-and-rayon mixture. Wide
bands of the wrong side of the
material (the satin-back) were in-
serted in the slim skirt and on the deep
neckline. An unusual frock was in
sterling-grey rayon-alpaca, and it was
patterned with squares of black eyelash-
fringe. It had a soft cowl-neckline and
push-up sleeves. For party wear there
was a black-and-white Swiss cotton
frock with a full skirt and black velvet
shoulder-straps which finished in front
of the bodice in a wide bow. There was
a tiny jacket to match.
A gown of perfection was in pale-hya-
cinth blue “crystal organza,” almost like
a smooth crepe. An unusual cape, with
cowled collar, covered the strapless
bodice on Which, as well as on the skirt,
with its treatment of inset godets, were
embroideries of pearls and crystals. A
lovely dress was. of white nylon lace,
sleeveless and buttoned-through with
pearls, with the fullness coming from
below a hip-yoke. White nylon lace
was also used to make a gorgeous full-
length evening-gown with white-net
godets, the net also forming the wide
shoulder-straps.
Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine, who bears a
striking resemblance to Princess Margaret,
is the mother of two young sons, Stephen
and David. Formerly president of St.
Catherine’s Old Girls’ Association, she is
this year hon. secretary of the St.
Catherine’s Ball which is being organised
by the Parents and Old Girls’ Associa-
tion. This will be held at the Roy ale
Ballroom on July 5. De La Rue photo.
At St. Stephen’s Church, Caulfield,
Dawne Margaret, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Gordon Hodge, of Annafield,
Rosedale, was married to lan, youngest
son of the late Mr. 1 and Mrs. W. Ewart,
formerly of Boundary Park, Wahring.
The bride’s gown comprised a bouffant
skirt of white tulle over pink satin and a
fitted bodice of guipure lace. The waist-
length tulle veil was held in place with a
circlet of orange-blossoms, and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias. Her sister
Wanda attended her in a bouffant pink-
lace-and-tulle ankle-length frock.
The reception was held at Tudor Court,
which was decorated with huge bowls of
‘ pokers” and bronze autumn-flowers.
Mrs, Gordon Hodge received her guests
wearing a frock of anthracite-grey silk-
shantung and a hat of rose-pink melusine.
The bride’s grandmother, Mrs. M. A.
Mcßae, chose a frock of garnet-red wool
angora and a black-velvet hat trimmed
with velvet to match her frock. Among
other guests were the bride’s aunt, Miss
Christina Mcßae, and her great-aunt,
Mrs. Bessie Gay, of Medaura, Glen
Maggie. After a honeymoon in Queens-
land Mr. and Mrs. Ewart will settle at
Boundary Park, Wahring.
* * *
“Hot Ice” got off to a good start at
Her Majesty’s, and the glamor on stage
was matched by the audience. Mrs.
John Osboldstone, in dove-grey chiffons
and platina fox-stole, was with her
daughter Angela, who set off her fair
coloring with lilac-blue tulle. Mrs. Frank
Tait and Mrs. David Martin wore black
ensembles; Mrs. Royden Honeyman's
bouffant faille coat in bronze tonings
was embroidered with green and gold
sequins. Mrs Bing Molyneux chose a
limiEn.onrl


Missing Beneficiary
Re Estate of WILLIAM GRAHAM SMITH.
Would any person knowing the where-
abouts of WILLIAM JAMES SMITH, a
son of James Foote Smith, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
for Victoria, 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEVV
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HENRY HOLD late of 42
Ross Street Toongabbie—TAKE NOTICE
that THOMAS HENRY McCOURT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2118 of
1953 on the ground of your adultery with
FREDE MAY McCOURT If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 27th September 1954
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL
& CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
No. 2378 of 1953.
TO JAMES ALWIN GOODWIN late of 5
Fleming Terrace Newcastle West —TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN ESME GOODWIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2378
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 12th July 1954 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
AITKEN & PLUCK, Solicitors, of 14
Spring Street, Sydney, or from WARWICK
S. JOHNSON, Solicitor, of 121 Maitland
Road, Mayfield.—C. A. H. HARMS, Act-
ing Registrar. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— IN Divorce.
TO MARIE GABRIEL HICKMAN.—
TAKE NOTICE that RICHARD ROBERT
HICKMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1586 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under s 19(2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend this suit you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th of October 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, of 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To MONA GODFREY late of 79 Archer
Street North Adelaide. —TAKE NOTICE
that OLGA MARGUERITE MARIE GILL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 998
of 1954 on the ground of the adultery
of Joseph Leslie Gill with you If you
desire to defend the charge you may
apply to the Court to be let in to do
so A copy of the petition may be
obtained without charge from MESSRS.
WHITEHEAD FERRANTI & GREEN,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street. Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Have you tried
t ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
HH
>5
pun OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke —and to offer
mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
-these
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
Stage and Music
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Isaac Stem
One of the most amiable of
America’s roving ambassadors is
violinist Isaac Stern, now de-
lighting A.B.C. audiences with a
standard of violin-playing not
equalled since Ginette Neveu’s
visit.
The luscious tone of Stern’s
violin has matured since he was
last in Australia, and he may be
ranked without condescension
with the giants of the violin,
such as Heifetz. If he lacks the
tragedy-mask features which in
Heifetz are the delight of
cameramen, Stern makes amends
with a bowing technique which
can be enjoyed' in its own right,
much as one might enjoy fine
sword-play.
In his performance in Bris-
bane of Brahms’s Violin Con-
certo, Stern did not attempt to
philosophise in the self-conscious
manner of some performers. But
he matched the varying moods
of the work, ranging from the
craggy magnificence of the first
movement to the lingering nos-
talgia of the adagio.
The main orchestral work of
the concert was Vaughan Wil-
liams’s “Pastoral Symphony,”
directed by John Farnsworth
Hall with all the care and skill
which makes him an outstanding
conductor of English music. A
work like this must hold atten-
tion from the first notes. The
music is deeply reflective and
lacks the contrast between
themes and moods which dis-
tinguishes classical symphonies.
Nevertheless, this performance
showed that there is much fine
music in it, the style suggesting
lines of cloud and sky not
noticeable in the sharp clear air
of Beethoven’s “Pastoral.”
D. J. M.
❖ ❖ *
National Opera
The Natioilal Opera company
opened its fourth consecutive
Sydney season with “II
Trovatore,” the luridly melo-
dramatic tale of Gypsy hate,
aristo. vengeance, switched
babies, deathless love and a final
litter of corpses —on all of which
Verdi grafted one of his most
melodious scores.
Nigel Lovell’s production was
a satisfying one, with only minor
faults —such as the too-tight
grouping of the choruses, or the
bit in the big “Anvil Chorus”
where one Gypsy tapped the
anvil as though afraid of hurting
it—and the choruses were the
best heard in opera in Sydney for
some years. Full and well-
disciplined, they included for the
first time male voices able to
hold their own against the com-
bined sopranos and contraltos.
Alick McKenzie dressed the
opera opulently, and there were
both skill and imagination in his
decor, although the preponder-
ance of red was monotonous.
The singing and acting also
showed a steady advance on last
season. Gladys Mawson, whose
rich lyric soprano is tinged with
dramatic quality, sang Leonora
confidently and convincingly,
Margaret Elkins gave Azucena a
sonorous contralto, and Alan
Light backed-up an authoritative
appearance as the intransigent
Count di Luna with a ringing
baritone which gets better each
season.
Ronald Dowd began very
well as Manrico, but a heavy
cold took him off half-way
through. Raymond McDonald,
a young Queensland tenor,
stepped in and finished the job
with distinction.
* * ❖
At the latest celebrity con-
cert at Melbourne Town Hall
Walter Susskind, seated at the
piano ala Mozart, conducted
the Victorian Symphony Orches-
tra through that composer’s Con-
certo in D minor.
There were diverse opinions
about it. One was that the
orchestra conducted itself while
the conductor was engaged with
the piano, and another was that
the piano was sacrificed to the
conducting. The argument
couldn’t have it both ways, so
the only thing left by which to
judge was the music, and that
couldn’t have sounded as lovely
as it did if there hadn’t been
perfect agreement between all
participants in the performance.
The highlight of the evening
was the Fourth Symphony of
Gustav Mahler, which has “Ode
to Heavenly Joy” 4 for its sub-
title. The ode was sung by
Barbara Wilson, whose voice is
expressive but barely sufficient to
fill a hall which had just been
filled to overflowing with the
glorious music and melodies of
the composer.
♦> *> ❖
“Reluctant Heroes”
This was reviewed here when
it opened at Melbourne Comedy,
but it ran for so long at that
address —upwards of six months
—that, now it’s at Sydney Royal,
it may be recalled again as a
cheerful, more-or-less plotless
farce in which the reluctant
characters are a group of
national-service trainees sub-
jected to the tender ministrations
of a Regular Army sar’-major.
With William Hodge as the
explosive, hair-tearing sarge;
with Brian James, Keneth
Thornett and Michael Anderson
as the trainees; with Maree
Marsden, Fay Parsons and June
Collis as a decorative contribu-
tion from the W.A.A.C.S.; and
with Hodge’s direction bustling
the piece along at a tidy bat and
blowing big bubbles of humor
out of very little, really—well,
the audience was bustled along
quite pleasantly on a bubble of
laughter which seems as though
it might hang about the Royal as
long as it did about the Comedy.
+l+ +> ❖
“Much Binding in Variety”
“You’ve heard,” said Richard
Murdoch at Sydney Palladium
the other evening, “that the
A.B.C. doesn’t like dirty jokes.
Don’t you believe it —they love
’em, but they just won’t let you
broadcast them.”
Taking Mr. Murdoch’s word
on that, then, there is much in
the programme the A.B.C. would
love, even if they wouldn’t
broadcast it. There is also a lot
they couldn’t broadcast if they
wanted to. Janos and Bogyo, for
instance —on their own in the
first half of the bill, and as two
of the Trio Fayes in the second
half. They’re billed as the
“aristocrats of acrobats,” and
there’s a good measure of justi-
fication for that in their seem-
ingly unextended, effortless
gymnastics —amazing stuff most
of it, all done with an air of slow
amusement.
Nor could you broadcast the
best of Allan Clive’s impersona-
tions —though that word doesn't
do them full justice. He takes in
such as George Sanders, Cary
Grant, Humphrey Bogart,
Frankie Laine, Jerry Lewis, Dean
Martin, Jimmy Stewart, Danny
Kaye and Billy Daniels and
makes a lot more of it than mere
mimicry; each is a neat little
skit on its own —including the
fruity George Sanders remark
to the young lady about to drown
herself in the river: “How fright-
fully sporting of you.”
Most of Mr. Murdoch, of
course, can be and is broadcast
(in the excellent 8.8. Q and
A.B.C. series), but it’s not
remarkable that he should be
even better in the flesh. He’s a
likeable sort of personality, with
a slow, offhand manner, and
drops his humor so gently that,
sometimes, nobody hears it fall.
Some of his jokes in the
Palladium bill seem to have come
from the Joke Board, but there’s
a good spattering of new-laid
ones among them.
The best of the .rest are the
Three Brittons, trick-cyclists;
Eddie Lynn, the drummer who
arrived in these parts with
“Hellzapoppin’ ” and who
doesn’t get quite the opportunity
he merits on this bill; and Toni
Lamond* the fetching “soubrette”
whose enthusiastic warbling of
popular ditties is as good as
anything of its kind in variety
in these parts.
& ❖ ❖
Three One-act Plays
The Irish gift for injecting a
shot of mysticism into simple
events and for converting bad
grammar into good poetry is
exemplified in Synge’s “Riders to
the Sea.”
As Maurya, in the Sydney
Metropolitan performance,
Beatrice Wenban saved matters
with the sour clarity of her
diction. She won dignity by soft-
pedalling maternal anguish to the
point where she seemed, not so
much hurt by death, as fed-up
with it —although any mother
whose six sons have all got them-
selves drowned, doubtless has a
right to feel fed-up.
Among the surrounding inaudi-
bilities, the daughters seemed the
most inexperienced, and the
homely pathos of the moment
when a sister establishes the death
of a brother by counting the
stitches in a sock washed up from
the sea was lost in a welter of
Irish squeaks.
J. O. Francis’s “Birds of a
Feather” was spoiled by the
clowning of John Maxim as the
bishop. The whole point of this
play lies in the beautiful sim-
plicity of the man of God, which
quickly forges a link between
himself and the humble poachers.
Since Maxim showed some
flashes of good acting, the blame
probably rests with the direction,
which completely misses the
point of the play.
Chekhov’s comedy “The
Proposal” seemed more depress-
ing than his tragedies.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Cockpit”
Bridget Boland’s “Cockpit”
(Genesians, Sydney) triumphantly
proves that European peoples
dislike each other. Still, she
writes so skilfully, lards her
sermon with humor, and hustles
it along at such a gallop that she
never bores. She has a slick
sense of stagecraft, and cleverly
arranges for someone to fire a
revolver whenever the audience
is in any danger of going to
sleep.
She firmly refuses, however, to
let us know her characters per-
sonally, and it is probably due to
her writing that you don’t care a
hoot when the French girl is
killed —not due to any flaw in the
acting of Philippa Baker, who,
like the rest of the cast, sets
herself, and keeps to, a very high
standard.
Altogether, the Genesians
offer a performance which has
been polished to admirable
standards. After some initial
groping, Donald Crosby settles
down to a performance which is
almost uniformly excellent,
although it is Joe McCormick,
as the professor, who shows the
fine actor’s ability to draw all
eyes to himself, even before he
steps into the centre of the play’s
action.
The play seems so undecided
about its own ending that the
audience didn’t know whether to
go home, but it’s a tiptop even-
ing and peccadilloes will iron out.
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
The Royal Art Society’s
autumn exhibition dt Anthony
Hordern’s gallery, Sydney, is
very disappointing indeed, and
even if one selected the best from
it—Leonard Long’s “Robertson
Landscape” and “Red Earth,
Robertson, N.S.W.”; Lance
Solomon’s two rather sombre
glimpses of the bush; Albert
Rydge’s pleasant “Illawarra
Landscape” and “Brown and
Grey” pastoral; Eric Langker’s
“At Evening” ; H. A. Hanke’s
“The Sparkling Sea” ; the Mary
Edwards portrait, “Leticia”;
G. K. Townshend’s “Head of the
Cove, Broken Bay” ; and Cedric
Emanuel’s coldly architectural
watercolors —there would still
not be anything particularly fresh
or striking among them.
The trouble with most of the
remainder would seem to be not
any lack of competence nor, as
some have asserted, that “they
paint what they see” ; rather, that
they aren’t seeing. In other
words, their methods are all right
—if only they were applied with
more freshness and observation.
<C* *X* ❖
There is some fresh and sensi-
tive observation among the land-
scapes in the show of Harley
Griffith’s pictures at the
Athenaeum Gallery, Melbourne,
although the careful painting in
the interiors and* still-life lacks
the inner quality that makes all
the difference. There is a live-
liness in “Forest Track,”
“Summer Haze” and “Evening
Landscape” that isn’t in the
plums, pears and peaches, which
look too real to be real. Simi-
larly, “Left Bank, Paris” and
“The Clearing” have a vital
quality that is lacking in “Self-
Portrait” and “At the Easel.”


KUCHING’S
travel goods
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Failure Here, Success in Scotland
Blueprint for Living
By NORMAN KING
FOR generations to come
Australians will continue
to pay dearly for the lack
of planning and foresight
which characterised the growth
of all this country’s major cities
except one. And, paradoxically,
.that city, Adelaide, has come to
be regarded as a model for town-
planners the world over, a blue-
print for future cities.
Had a far-sighted early Govern-
ment foreseen the growth of
slums and industrial violence
perhaps steps would have been
taken to make better use of the
vast areas of land where cities
grew to plan others which would
have been models of their kind.
And now a post-war attempt to
establish such a modern,
carefully - planned community
little more than 100 miles west
of Sydney has failed, one of the
contributing factors being inter-
departmental ‘jealousy. This
factor, together with meeting the
nation’s urgent appetite for coal,
spelled the curtailment of the
plan to make the “new”
Wallerawang township a com-
munity which would set the
standard for future rural
development in this and other
States of the Commonwealth.
Wallerawang was to become
our counterpart of Glenrothes,
Scotland, both being planned as
20th-century coalmining towns
wherein the old bitterness . be-
tween boss and employee, the
class-conscious hatreds which
bred Communism as a modern
evil, and the suspicious, conserva-
tive enmities of the Welsh valleys
and the Geordie villages would
have no place. One plan is being
developed steadily to what would
appear to be assured success ; the
other has been practically
abandoned..
Both Glenrothes and Wallera-
wang owed their planned future
to the common need for coal to
meet the industrial expansion of
the immediate post-war years in
Great Britain and Australia. In
Great Britain the Government
passed the New Towns Act,
1946 ; in Australia a Federal and
State Joint Coal Board was
established, with a charter not
only to spend many thousands
of pounds on existing mining
communities but to build others
so that employees needed for the
large-scale development of new
mines and open-cuts could be
housed.
The board looked to the
western coalfield, extending from
Lithgow south-east and to
Kandos in the north-west, to
provide coal almost immediately
per medium of open-cuts, while
a long-range plan provided for
the establishment pf at least three
new underground mines and the
mechanisation of others already
operating.
Local Government bodies
were offered a grant-in-aid pay-
ment of one-penny per ton on all
coal mined within the various
boundaries; amenity-money was
pouring into the mining town-
ships in what appeared to be a
never-ending stream; and, in
that boom-period, when the
future of the industry appeared
to be assured, the “new” Wallera-
wang township-plan was born.
The plan, a closely-guarded
-secret until a newspaper adver-
tisement called tenders for erec-
tion of 1200 homes at Wallera-
wang, excited town-planners far
and»wide. Here, at last, was an
opportunity to build a mining
and industrial town which would
be an example for future genera-
tions of planners.
The existing Wallerawang
township, a two-hotel, half-a-
main-street village at the junction
of the Mudgee and Main Western
railway-lines, is nine miles from
Lithgow and, therefore, near the
heart of the western coalfields.
Town-planners, given a placid
river, fertile flats and gently-
rolling, well-grassed, virgin
country, already intersected by
main- and secondary-roads, saw
their dreams realised when they
were offered the charter of
planning from scratch.
The Coal Board acquired the
Barton estate at Wallerawang, a
30,000-acre property formerly
owned by a middle-aged bachelor
and his sister who were shot in
the rambling homestead by a
crazed 17-year-old boy, a State
ward whom they had befriended'
and had offered employment on
the property. The youth, now
serving a term of life-imprison-
ment for murder, lay in the sun
one Sunday morning and heard
“a buzzing in his ears like a bee
in a pumpkin-flower,” and shot
the man and woman down one
after the other when they arrived
home from the Sunday-morning
service in the Wallerawang
church their pioneering family
had helped to build.
+ + •
When at last the town-planners
produced their colored specifica-
tions, work was ready to begin
on the new township. It was
then that inter-departmental
jealousy made itself evident.
“Why,” the State Housing
Commission asked in effect,
“should the Joint Coal Board or
any other organisation be per-
mitted to erect homes at Wallera-
wang or anywhere else when
there is a Government instru-
mentality in existence for that
specific purpose?”
The scheme was delayed, and,
finally, the Housing Commission
was empowered to go ahead with
the project, emphasis being
placed on the need for the utmost
speed in the erection of the
scores of houses.
Already three enormous 12yd.
“walking” draglines, each cost-
ing a quarter of a million pounds
to buy and an estimated £60,000
each to assemble and put into
operation, had arrived from
America and were working on
the western field,, one at
Kerosene Vale, Lidsdale, and the
other two at Ben Bullen, further
north. Lesser draglines, shovels
and loaders were also operating,
and coal was flowing in an
increasing stream from a dozen
open-cuts all along the Mudgee
line. So much coal was coming
out that the railways could not
handle it, and dumps at rail-
heads mounted weekly.
Men, even laborers and
greasers, were earning fantastic
wages in the open-cuts and were
crying for homes. A gold-strike
could hardly have imposed a
greater strain on the housing-
accomnfodation at Wallerawang
and Lidsdale.
' The Housing Commission
promised priority to the Wallera-
wang district and let large
contracts to overseas firms for
the supply and erection of pre-
fabricated cottages. Surveys had
been completed, streets and roads
pegged-out and most preliminary
planning done, so it appeared to
be merely a matter of time before
the Wallerawang model-township
became a reality.
Then, inexplicably, the demand
for coal slackened. Open-cuts
which had been working three
shifts a day could not find
orders", mountainous coal-stacks
remained at the rail-heads;
massive quantities of earth-
moving machinery purchased by
the Coal Board stood idle. And,
all at once, prefabricated homes,
being erected by German and
Dutch workmen at Wallerawang,
remained partly completed, with
large quantities of material lying
exposed to the weather.
Doubt and uncertainty hung
over the district, the rumors that
all was not well with the project
being emphasised by the fact
that ( the Housing Commission
suddenly cancelled the contract
of one of the major overseas con-
tracting firms.
Political pressure was brought,
to bear, and the partly-completed
cottages were finished and
balloted for. Then it was
announced that plans for the
Wallerawang township would be
curtailed considerably, the order
for cottages being reduced by
100.
However, although western
coal was no longer needed in
unlimited quantities and many
mineworkers had been dismissed,
work proceeded on the enormous
new power-station being erected
beside the small Church of St.
John, where the Barton family
had worshipped." The Electricity
Commission, given more funds
to complete the erection of new
power-stations in New South
Wales, announced that work on
the Wallerawang undertaking
would be stepped-up as a matter
of the utmost priority, and that
at least 500 workmen would be
needed.
The announcement re-
awakened interest in the Wallera-
wang-township proposal, parti-
cularly as plans for the electrifi-
cation of the western railway-
line to Wallerawang were being
put into effect.
Termination of electric-trains
at Wallerawang meant that no
coal- and oil-burning locomo-
tives would run east of the depot.
Thus, big locomotive-depots,
marshalling-yards and main-
tenance-personnel would be
needed at the junction. Local
businessmen, Labor branches
and Blaxland Shire Council
began to urge the State Labor
Government to build more
homes in Wallerawang and to
complete, as a matter of urgency,
the erection of 19 homes where
foundations had already been
laid.
That is Wallerawang today—
a vista of arrested opportunity
and doubtful future; another
Government enterprise that
failed.
The Scottish experiment, on
the other hand, may yet prove
to be the blueprint for future
country towns, badly needed in
the bare, empty Australian main-
land' where decentralisation of
industry is becoming constantly
more necessary.
For those Who know their
Scotland, the Glenrothes experi-
ment is taking place on 5730
acres lying in the parishes of
Markinch, Leslie and Kinglassie
and the County of Fife. Near-
by towns are Kirkcaldy, Leslie,
Markinch and Lochgelly. The
new-township area is sprawled
around the River Leven.
The proposal to establish a
new town in the area was an
important feature of the British
Government’s plan for develop-
ing the resources of the Scottish
coalfields and increasing pro-
duction. The Lanarkshire coal-
fields, which in 1938 provided
about 43 per' cent, of Scottish
coal-production, were declining,
and a steady falling-off was
anticipated as existing seams
were being worked-out. It was
decided that expansion elsewhere
would have to be planned, mainly
in the coalfields of Fife, Clack-
mannan and the Lothians.
+ +
The overall plan provided for
additional miners to be employed
in the new areas where shafts
were to be sunk. The number
employed in 1948 was about 6500
miners ; in 1950 about 7200 ; by
1956 an additional 2750 miners
would be needed to man the
new pits, A township to house
them was imperative.
Few of the existing mining
communities could be expanded
to accommodate the influx and
most already had serious housing
problems of their own. Other
factors prohibited building-
schemes in or around old mining
villages, and the Government
agreed to experiment with an
entirely different type of com-
munity, where miners could feel
they were people with civic
responsibilities equal to residents
of any other area.
Thus, Glenrothes, a mixed
community with a proper social
and industrial balance, was born.
The development of the com-
munity centred around the hous-
ing of about 3500 miners and
their families, but it was realised
that accommodation would have
to be provided for the population
offering services such as shop-
ping, transport and trade, it being
intended to bring other industries
into the area at a later date.
Conditions elsewhere in Scot-
land showed that the proportion
of miners to others in a com-
munity where mining was the
main occupation was about one-
in-five to one-in-seven. It Was
decided a better balance would
be not more than one-in-eight or
one-in-nine.
The new town, it was stressed,
must have sufficient area for a
modern, well-planned com-
munity, have a “green-belt”
around the town area, be within
reasonable distance of the main
centres of mining development,
have good rail- and road-
communications, be capable of
being readily supplied with water,
drainage, gas and electricity, and
must lend itself to future indus-
trial development.
Compared to Australia’s limit-
less, practically untouched broad
acres, Scotland’s little mining
valleys were badly situated for
such an enterprise. However, at
last, the site was chosen.
It offered an area of consider-
able natural beauty, sheltered to
the north by the slopes of the
Lomond Hills and to the west by
the Goatmilk Hills and other
rising ground.
A Development Corporation
was formed to make Glenrothes
a reality, it being emphasised that
the town would not be just
another mining community to
house the miners who would
work at the Rothes-pit, now
being sunk at Thornton, but a
perfectly-planned centre where
people of all walks of life would
live and work under the best
possible conditions.
This present year saw hundreds
of new houses already erected,
site-preparations for many more,
a shopping-centre which had
been functioning for almost a
year and another in course of
erection, two ultra - modem
schools, and spacious, well-
planned parks, gardens and
communal-centres.
+ +
The plans for Glenrothes are
possibly the most modern of their
type in the world. They include
adequate sporting-facilities; net-
works of roads, parks and
gardens ; and “pedestrian green-
ways,” leading from the resi-
dential to the Town Centre areas,
which enable pedestrians to walk
without fear of encountering any
vehicular traffic whatsoever, a
boon to mothers and children and
the aged.
A revolutionary principle,
adopted by the Development
Corporation, ensures that miners,
traditionally conservative, do not
congregate together, forming
dour little cliques which could
retard a progressive communal
spirit and civic sense. The cor-
poration sees to it that, wherever
possible, miners are not
neighbors, and that employees
in other occupations share
adjoining premises.
An exception is made where,
say, a son wishes to live beside
an aged or infirm parent, and
provision was made in the plans
for retired or disabled miners to
live in blocks of “Coronation
cottages.” These are of two
apartments, with a large sliding-
door between the living-room
and bedroom, so that heat
radiated from the living-room
permeates the other rooms.
Another modern touch was
the decision to instal communal
hot-water services to groups vf
houses, not individually as is the
case elsewhere. The corporation
employs staff to man the com-
munal hot-water centres which
pipe regulated supplies to groups
of 20 houses.
Glenrothes also has a modern
health-centre, the third erected
in Scotland.
Of particular interest to Aus-
tralians, with unlimited land and
few people, will be the ratio of
open-spaces allowances, a matter
completely disregarded when
most of our towns and cities
grew in confusion, with houses
crammed tightly together. In
Glenrothes it was decided to
allot seven acres of school- and
playing-fields for every 1000-head
of population, together with
parks, public gardens and “green-
ways” at 3.5 to 4 acres, and 3.5
acres for additional town-parks
and golf-course for every 1000-
head.
As well, approximately 100
acres in the Leven Valley was
set aside for recreational pur-
poses. The plans provided for a
population density of no more
than 16.8 persons per acre on a
gross basis.
-When future Wallerawangs
are being planned, and when our
population figures warrant such
expansion projects, the failure
of the New South Wales experi-
ment and the complete success of
the Scottish counterpart should
act as a guide to Government
departments. It may be hoped
also that the planning of future
Wallerawangs is done in a better
and more farsighted spirit.


*
£?**2
8W
n
■
■■ ; <■.•■•
I I
'? * , --"T
, * -' K\
'' -S, > X
■
$1
Hi
*s ' « ■* , ( v ■% \«5 -<
% ' *' >'' **, < ’‘i
:*-k Hv /t
•:«:;; v- i
mm
Wp;
::• ■ -.
m.
MiM*
y- ■' ;.•-•■• V v >-'X> -•■>• V\,. jv.-y. " C'2*- ■. ■■■ X-<”sw
*•« —c; * *
diZCi 'sj~ ' &s'J* X - : ;,X .
?:<2?.v . *&&< '. > *• ...-»•
Here it is, the Mobiico Self Drive, built along the lines of an aircraft undercarriage. Wind the wheel
down and it automatically drives; wind it up and it stops and tucks up neatly under the chassis leaving
you with a perfectly balanced free-wheeling machine for the actual jobs of felling, cross-cutting and
ripping. You can buy it fitted to a Mobiico "Model B" or "Bush King", or you can have it fitted to your
own Mobiico machine.
a
V'
BUY IT ON A ...
When you get a self-driven Mobile© your machine will go
anywhere ... it will never slip, bog or fail to take you over
any hill. If you find the going a bit tough just a light down-
ward pressure on the handles gets your Mobilco surging
forward. You simply can't stop it. Wherever you can walk
your Mobilco will drive.
IDEAL FOR THE MOBILCO FENCING
OUTFIT...
The Mobilco Fencing Outfit, consisting of circular saw, post
hole digger and post borer, becomes a "double earner" with
this new self drive. Look at the time you will save. Whether
it's sandy, boggy or hilly, there's no time lost with a Mobilco.
It goes anywhere and everywhere just as you want it.
If you own a Mobilco now and find that where you
are working it is a bit hard to push your machine
around, please fill in the coupon and let us send you
all the details about the new Mobilco Drive. If, on the
other hand, you don't already own a mobile saw and
are thinking of getting one, make sure that you find
out about the Mobilco with the only positive action,
variable traction drive. You must not take the risk of
not knowing all about Mobilco, Australia's own shaft
driven machine with the stop-at-nothing Self Drive.
PATENT PENDING
* The Self Drive has the Mobilco six months guarantee, and
machines fitted with it can be bought on a convenient time
payment plan.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS; MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE; 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUST.
v
V V * .
/
FIT IT TO YOUR MOBILCO...
The Mobilco Self Drive is supplied ready to fit to any Mobile©
"Model B" or "Bush King" Saw. Due to its light weight and
perfect balance you will not know it is there when felling
and cross-cutting, but once you wind it down and the wheel
is driving there's nothing to do but merely guide the machine
to the next job.
I
&
m
m
i
i
&
ns
POST NOW FOR DETAILS
r-
I would like complete details of the
Mobilco Self Drive to be posted at once.
Name
Address


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
19. Crickets
MELLISH recovers first.
“My dear,” he says to
Mrs. Mellish.
She goes out of the
kitchen. We hear her pick up
the telephone and speak. Once
she says, “Yes!” in a startled
voice. Then she puts the phone
down and comes back into the
kitchen and looks at her husband.
“He asked me if Mr. Delaney
was here,” she tells him, and her
eyes are big now. “And when I
said ‘yes’ he said —this is exactly
what he said: ‘You will please to
tell him not to come out. You
will tell him it is not good to
come out. You will say it is
Olnec who tells you this! ’ Then
he hung up.”
A pin? You could have heard
a feather fall!
Olnec!
Olnec calling up Mellish’s
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
home and warning me not to
leave the house!
It rocks me so hard I got to
sit down. I drop into a chair at
the table in Mellish’s kitchen and
rest on my elbows and I’m like
I’m punch-drunk. Because it
don’t make sense, any way I can
see it.
Joyce moves in and stands
besides me and puts a hand on
my shoulders.
“Del, what does it mean? I’m
so frightened.”
I reach up and take her hand.
“It’ll be all right,” I say. But
I’m still rocked and can’t make
sense out of it.
“Fine welcome you’d have got
if you’d gone out in the car,”
Mitchell says. “Fine welcome!
Well, I’ve lost too much time
already.”
He goes out of the kitchen to
the telephone. Nothing I can do
about it, now. The game’s all
Mitchell’s. All I can hope is that
he’s got abundance in trumps,
not a lay down misere. Because
he’s got to take all the tricks, not
lose ’em, to do Delaney any
good.
Mitchell doesn’t take long. He
comes back in the kitchen. I
don’t even look at him.
“I’ll have to borrow your car,
Mr. Mellish,” he says. “They’re
calling in the police cars and
I’m to join them at the station.”
‘‘They coming here?” I ask.
“They’re sending two here. I
didn’t tell them everything. Just
that you’re here and a threat
has been made. Explanations
can wait. I can’t lose another
moment getting out to that mill.”
He gets the car keys and goes
out. We hear the car start.
“We may as well go into the
drawing-room,” Mrs. Mellish
says. You’d think to hear her
we was waiting for someone to
come to ,afternoon-tea. Because
she doesn’t know that Olnec like
I know him.
“You got a gun or anything?”
I ask Mellish, as we follow the
women into the drawing-room.
“Because the cops might be slow
getting here and that Willets
crowd might try something.
Warning me to stay put could
be a trick. I don’t trust them
birds.”
“Sh! The ladies,” says the
old boy. He’s got a high look
about him and his mouth is tight.
Then I see his eyes and I get a
shock. Because he’s keyed right
up and enjoying the whole thing
like a kid waiting for his teacher
to sit on a tack though he knows
he could be for it.
He goes into a little room off
the hall and rummages, and
when he comes back he’s got a
.410 orchard-gun and loading
both barrels.
“It’s only bird-shot,” he says,
“but it was birds you mentioned,
wasn’t it, Delaney?”
“You’ll do me, Mr, Mellish,”
I says. Because he’s as good as a
slug of neat rum to me.
We go into the drawing-room.
Mrs. Mellish is sitting in a
bridge-chair, alongside a small
table with a reading-lamp on it.
That’s the only light, Joyce is
in a big armchair behind the
light. She’s in some shadow, but
I see her eyes look at me and
then at the gun Mellish is carry-
ing and then back at me. Mellish
goes across the room to a settee.
Over his shoulder he speaks to
me.
“Take a seat, Delaney, please.”
“Thanks,” I say, and I go
across and sit on the arm of
Joyce’s chair. Because I want to
be near her. All of a sudden I
want to be near her. I rest a
hand lightly on her shoulder.
She reaches up and puts one hand
over my hand and gives me a
little smile,
Mellish has laid the orchard-
gun on the carpet at his feet and
got a cigarette going. He’s lean-
ing back, looking up at the
ceiling. Little Mrs. Mellish is
holding a magazine, but she isn’t
reading it. Because she keeps
looking at each of us. I turn my
hand over and take Joyce’s hand
in it and squeeze it a little, and
it comes to me I’m acting just like
a big kid with his first sweetheart.
A laugh starts somewhere down
inside me, but I kill it and my
mind goes out of that room and
out to Willets and, like you see
on a screen, I see Mitchell and
the cops getting round that mill
and busting in and
There’s a ring at the front
door. Mellish makes to get up,
but I’m across the room and got
the .410 and on my way into the
hall. I open the front door three
inches and shove my foot against
it and lean back to give myself
room with the bird-shot if I have
to use it.
“Yes!”
“Police here.”
“Constable Shakespeare. Is
that Mr. Mellish?”
By this time I’ve had a look
through the door-opening and
seen them. They’re in the dark,
but they’re outlined against the
street light.
I step back and let the door
swing open.
“No,” I says, “Mr. Mellish’s
inside. I’m an old pal of yours.”
It’s Shakespeare, all right. He
comes in, with another cop I
haven’t seen before. Somebody
switches the hall light on and I
reach past the cops and shut the
door. When 1 turn round Mellish
is standing in the hall, by the
light-switch.
“Never put a light on in the
dark unless you’re sure who you
got,” I tell him.
In the drawing-room the cops
take their caps off and introduce
themselves. The one I don’t
know is Constable Bowers. He’s
young and chippy and about all
he can see in there is Joyce,
where she’s smiling at them.
“Looks like a big night,” I
say to Shakespeare.
“That’s right,” he says.
“Be a good time to pull a
robbery or two in Murrayford,
I’d reckon,” I grin.
“Huh?”
“All the cops out at Willets,
aren’t they?”
“Just about,” Shakespeare
says.
He sits down gingerly on the
settee near Mellish. Bowers
looks like he wants to sit near
Joyce, but I go across and perch
on the arm of her chair and he’s
got to sit in a chair by the door.
The cops and the Mellishes
start talking. It’s all about
Mitchell and the rum-running
arid Jardine and me and some
other things. Seems Shakespeare
and Bowers got their orders to
come here and be with us, though
I’m not clear whether they’re
guarding us or watching us.
What is clear is that they don t
take it too seriously and they’d
give a lot to be out at Willets
with the raiders.
Because they don’t know
Olnec.
Mellish tells them about Olnec
calling us up and there’s a lot of
talk about it.
Mrs. Mellish gets up and says,
“I’m sure everybody would like
some tea.”
She heads for the kitchen.
Joyce says, “I’d better go and
help.”
She goes out. I sit still for a
while, talking now and then.
Mellish is doing most of the
talking. Telling the cops the
story. He’s excited about it. I
guess nothing much ever happens
in Murrayford. Way he puts it
the place was asleep until
Delaney blew in. You’d think
I was something out of the box,
to hear him. The cops keep
giving me looks. I get tired of
it and get up and drift out to the
kitchen. Bowers watches me go.
My bet is he’ll find an excuse to
come out, too, soon as he can
think of it.
In the kitchen I watch the two
women getting the tea ready.
Nobody says much. There’s a
door at the other side of the
kitchen. The top half of it is
frosted glass. It comes to me that
outside that door there is all the
night and Murrayford and Olnec
and whoever’s with him in the
sedan and all the cops out at
Willets except the two we got
here and maybe a duty-man at
the police-station.
I look at Joyce and Mrs.
Mellish where they’re busy with
the cups and things, and I look at
the frosted glass and the door. I
get a kind of tingling up my back
and start. wishing I wasn't shut
in. It’s the same feeling a man
used to get in the islands, cooped
up in a foxhole and knowing the
Japs was prowling about in the
jungle all round him. Used to
feel like rushing out into the
night and yelling, just to start
something, just to break the
tension, just to be out where you
could move and duck and dodge
and not be a sitting-shot. No
Japs outside this kitchen. No
jungle out there. Only a quiet
town and people in their houses
or maybe gone to the pictures or
to a neighbor’s for cards. Only a
quiet town with a few cars and
lights shining and maybe a boy
and girl walking arm-in-arm, and
a cop sitting in the police-station
and two cops here talking to
Mellish. Sure a quiet town.
Only there’ll be movement and
maybe shouts out at Willets.
And there was a big sedan trail-
ing us earlier on with Olnec in it,
and Olnec called-up this house
and warned me to stay in it,
and for'all I know Olnec is still
out there, in the quiet town, wait-
ing. Because it’s guineas to
gooseberries Mrs. Amber and
Olnec and Mac and Lester and
the rest of them got an idea
what’s going on by this. And
they’ll have one man set for it.
One man named Delaney!
So X move across the Mellish
kitchen to the door with the
frosted glass.
“What’s through here?” I says.
“It opens on to a glassed-in
veranda,” Mrs. Mellish says. I
open the door and look through
on to the veranda.
“What’s outside the veranda?”
“Just the backyard,” Mrs.
Mellish says. “It’s lawn mostly,
except for the drying-yard.
That’s paved with concrete. Will
you have some tea, Mr.
Delaney?”
I shut the door and step back
into the kitchen and take a cup
of tea and lean against the wall,
sipping it. The women take the
trays and go to the drawing-
room. I stay there, sipping the
tea and thinking about that back-
yard. Because I could slip out
there and be in the dark and
maybe not have this shut-in feel-
ing. I got some thinking to do
and I can’t do it in this house.
Not with the cops and the
Mellishes talking and guessing
and asking questions. Not with
this shut-in feeling and kind of
images of people sneaking about
outside in the dark. I know the
cops won’t like it if I go out.
Hell with the cops.
I put the cup down and I’m
through the door and on the
veranda. With the door shut
behind me and no light in the
veranda I can go to the glass and
look out. The glass is in sliding
panels. On a bench one end of
the veranda are ferns and lily
plants in pots. I slide one of the
panels back a way, easy, trying
not to make a noise. It comes
back with just a faint slur of
sound. I stand there and I look
out.
The night smell of earth and
grass and plants comes on my
face. It’s a warm night and the
smell is fresh and nice. Crickets
singing out there in the Mellish
garden. One cricket, down in the
right-hand corner somewhere, got
a deep, strong note. Like a
contralto woman singer. This
cricket’s note comes over the
other crickets. They’re thin and
pale alongside the strong one.
Seems like the night and the bit
of dew on the grass and the
warmth and the earth-smells got
that cricket all excited. Or
maybe it sights a girl cricket.
Maybe it’s a girl cricket singing
for someone to come and love
her. I wouldn’t know about that.
I got no time to waste wondering
about crickets.
The night is clear and the stars
bright and it’s light enough to
see the back of Mellish's garden.
Over on the right is the concrete
oblong of the drying-yard. I see
it lighter in the dark. It’s
between me and the contralto
cricket. Straight out from me
runs a lawn and all to the left is
lawn. There’s a high hedge right
round. I can see its level top
against the night sky.
I find a door and slip through
it and drift out on to the lawn.
I bear to the left and the pale
crickets there stop singing.
They take it up again when 1
stand still. Over on the right the
strong one never stops. I see a
garden-seat near the hedge and
sit on it.
Somebody says, in a low voice,
“Del!”
She must have come back from
the drawing-room to see where
I was. She’s just outside the
open door, maybe forty-feet from
me. She’s shadowy in the dark.
I can see her, but she can’t see
me. Because when I sit on this
seat I’m against the black hedge
behind me.
“Over here,” I call, in a loud
whisper.
She comes towards me. Kind
of uncertain because she hasn't
seen me yet. I wait for her and
I forget about things. Because
of the dark and the night-smells,
and Joyce coming silently liks
WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD
Delaney, Mitchell and Mellish,
now with proof that Carson was
murdered and enough evidence to
clear Delaney of the charge of
murdering Detective Jardine, find
that the bullet from Carson’s
body is the same kind as the
bullets which Delaney took from
a gun he’d taken from Olnec.
The three men then pick up
Joyce Martin and go to Mellish’s
home. A big car trails them,
but they evade it. They are
making plans when Mellish’s
telephone rings,.


that and the excitement of it I
forget about things.
I stand up when she gets to
me and reach out and put my
hands on her arms and pull her
into me. My hands go from her
arms and my arms go round her.
It’s like I thought about her, that
time just after she sprung that
Dickens on me in the Grand, the
time I went looking for Carson.
It’s like I thought about her
Because I ve got one arm around
her, holding her into me, and 1
got a hand under her chin and
lifting it a little. My mouth finds
her lips and they’re, warm and
wet and I keep kissing her and
she trembles a little and her
mouth moves and her lips begin
to part.
I keep on forgetting about
things. I guess she forgets about
them, too. I half-turn and sit on
the seat, keeping hold of her and
still kissing her and we sit there
and it’s like there’s nothing.
Then I let her go and we come
apart a little. Joyce gives one
big sigh and leans against the
back of the seat and sort of
arches herself and looks up at the
sky. I’m watching her. Because
she does that and she’s lovely and
I want to take her and kiss her
again and I lean towards her.
But I don’t kiss her.
Because there isn’t a sound in
the garden. Not a sound.
One-hundredth of a second I
hear the silence then I put a
hand over Joyce’s mouth and
keep it there, hard, while I put
my other arm round her waist
and pull her and twist her and we
both go off that seat and down
on the grass. She struggles and
tries to pull her mouth away
from my hand, but I press harder
and roll her into the shallow
trench between the edge of the
lawn and the hedge. It’s no
more than six-inches deep but it’s
better than nothing.
I get my mouth close to one of
her ears.
“Keep still,” I breathe into
"Two fool cops get stuck in the doorway full in the light. I open my mouth to yell to them, but he fires first."
W oar Because there isn’t a
Rocanso the crickets have
stopped ringiig
We weren’t moving about. If
there’s a cat or a dog or maybe
a little garden lizard moving
about L Sckets woifldnTstop!
But the crickets stopped—the
bold contralto and the pale ones,
Thev stooped
They stopped because someone
else is in the garden, someone
moving slow and quiet, someone
who doesn’t want to be seen or
heard ‘
We don’t see or hear him. The
crickets don’t see or hear him.
But they know he's there, by
the feel of his weight on the
ground they know it.
Then we know it.
He must have seen us on the
seat. But it takes him a breath
of time to get a line on us in the
dark. And I pull Joyce down
just m time.
Because his gun spurts fire.
20. MdC ROSS
''TWICE he shoots. The second
shot right on top of the first.
The bullets snick through the
hedge. Joyce gives a leap, but I
hold her fast.
“Lie still. Don’t move!”
I’m twenty-feet from her
before she knows I’m gone.
Because the flare of the shots
would blind him for a second
and I’m on my way to him
before he gets his sight back.
There’s a yell inside Mellish’s
house. Somebody starts shout-
mg way in the distance. Some-
body put on the lights m Mellish s
glass veranda and the two fool
cops get stuck in the doorway
full m the light. I open my
mouth to yell to them, but he
fires first and one of them gives
a loud grunt and plunges across
the lawn maybe ten paces and
squirms.
“Put out the bloody light! ” I
scream, then run a few steps and
go down on my face. He shoots
again. I don’t know whether it
was at me or them.
Out beyond the house, in the
street, there’s somebody calling
out. Mellish’s light goes out.
That.makes it darker in the yard.
But I know where he is now.
Over beyond the concrete
drying-yard, near the hedge.
My mouth is dry and I hear
something thumping and then I
kn ow it’s my own heart. I nerve
myself and snake along at the
base of the hedge. Because this
is commando stuff. This is what
they taught us in the war.- “Don’t
rush it, keep calm, be silent, get
close,” is what they tell us. And
they teach us how to do it.
So I’m silent and I’m trying to
keep calm and I’m getting close,
Because now I’m along the back-
hedge and maybe thirty-feet from
him-if he don’t move away,
I’m betting he won’t move away
because he thinks I’m down by
the seat where he sighted me
first and he’s watching that spot
to try and see me move. I hope
to God Joyce don’t move.
I ease myself along about a
length
Out of the dark veranda
Mellish calls, “Delaney!
Delaney! Where are you? Are
you all right?”
Wouldn’t it rock you! Does
t h e old galoot think I’m going
to s t a nd up and tell him?
F , • there f trvine
t into b th blackness’ of the
when tLe’s a bSst from
the veranda Old Mellish and
his 410 shooting bird-shot at
the dark
That’s’what I think. But they
„ u • ~ .
had some brains in the house.
Because when Mellish shoots the
door opens wide and somebody
dives into the yard and goes
down and calls, “Put down that
gun and surrender. This is the
police.”
Then I nearly yell myself.
Because there’s a kind of a sneer
in the dark and it’s right beside
me. He must have been moving
my way. We’re moving towards
each other and I don’t know it.
Until he gives that sneer. '
Fm moving before he sees me .
Because he was watchin the cop
}in on the lawn . j * t both
hands out and rush and hit him
and we go apart and he lets out
a „ j whifl and b and
Fve t him b one arm and jerk
the arm down and knee
and the knee hits him somewhere
and he grunts.
T ? somethine wrong abo ut
. re s someth g ong
thls u ‘ t 1 haven 1 got time lo
work d out - . Because my knee
dldn 1 hurt him enough and he
squirms and crowds me and I
got to keep hold of both his arms
because he’s still got the gun.
I’m yelling for that cop and I
can hear him coming and next
thing a head gets me on the
cheek. He must have missed my
jaw by a fraction. I jerk him
forward, and about then the
cop arrives and chucks himself at
the two of us and we yell at each
other and the next thing all I’m
doing is whaling away at some-
body who’s gone limp and is
screaming curses and blasphemy
and the cop saying, “All right,
I’ve got him!”
I step back and there’s still
this something wrong. Mellish
is hurrying out, with a torch, and
Joyce comes from where she s
been lying in the trench. There’s
other people And suddenly I
know what’s wrong. The last
time I fought Olnec, out in that
Bellerive house, he was hard and
fast and slippery. This time he s
slow and kind of soft and keeps
on screaming. He s still scream-
ing as the cop drags him along,
It’s mad screaming with filth m
it, and whimpers. Its like he s
blown his top. I j ever .^ ou
Olnec was the kind to blow m
top.
The cop drags hirn into the
house and Mellish and some or
the people gather round the other
cop. Mellish puts the torch on
him and I see where he got it
and I get hold of Joyce and taice
her to the house. Because
nobody can do anything tor
Bowers any more poor dev,
So we go into the house and
therCj aII kin d of
t excited and white in
face And Shakespeare’s got
the bracelets on his man now
and cu fjj n g him to make him stop
scream j ng>
And j gee < he was soft and
wb be screa ms.
J, . . ; t ’s Mac
Because ’
Koss -
He’s slumped mere an i
screams coming out or mm
he ’ s quwermg and startmg ime
drinkinf rum
he s been g
andhe * TL in the dark
a^d h ad^
and ° ™ He was
nerve, footing at me. He was
c ° ol en ° u £/ h R “ t now
young Bowers But now he isn t
c ° ol any a thhie
™ an , a * y mor ®; Just a thmg '
{ S 1 T*\ oht wa ,
All t h e time I thought it was
Olnec out there. All the time I
thought it was Olnec shooting,
j go t to look at Mac Ross and
look at him. Because I can t take
it in. I look at him and my
thoughtsigc.haywire tor a little
while and I help myselt to a d
of water with me people an
round_ muttering ana looxmg a
Mac Ross, and l go to ge
of myselt. _
Because things Ith g
sense don t make sense now ana
it looks like 1 got on me tracK
somewhere. , ,
I put down the glass and pusn
through the people and go to
Mac Ross, where hes shivering
and whimpering. Shakespeare is
holding him and he looks at me.
I putmy
Where s Olnec. I yell at
him. .
He just quivers and makes little
moans.
He s done his block com-
pletely Shakespeare says. It s
no good, Delaney.
You get the gun.
Sure. ' , .
He pulls the gun out of his
pocket. The people standing
round crowd m to look at it.
Joyce is standing beside me, hold-
mg my arm.
“Oh,” she says. She stares at
the gun. She’s never seen it
before.
But I have. Because it’s the
gun Olnec held on me, all right.
I’d know it if it was all rusted-
up in a junk-yard.
I look at it and look at Mac
Ross’s crazy face and look at
Shakespeare.
“You better keep that gun,
boy,” I tell him. “Because it’s
important.”
“You’re telling me,” he says.
“Is anyone looking after
Bowers?”
“The doctor is out there now,”
somebody tells him. “Mrs.
Mellish sent for him.”
I step close to Shakespeare and
keep my voice low.
“Sorry,” I says, “Bowers is
dead. He got it in the right eye.”
“Here, hold him,” Shakespeare
says.
Somebody got to hold Mac or
he’ll maybe fold-up on the floor.
I take him by one arm. Shake-
speare goes out through the
kitchen. He’s away maybe a
minute. Then he comes back.
His mouth is tight and a pulse
moving in his cheek.
“Come on,” he says. “The
police-car we came in is still
outside. I’ll have to drive it. I’ll
get you to hold this beauty.”
We take an arm each and head
for the front door. People stand
aside. Joyce comes up beside me.
“Stay here,” I says. “No use
in*you coming.”
“Is it all over?” she says. “Is
it all over now?”
“Could be,” I tell her. “You
stay here, kid. I’ll c&ll you later.”
She squeezes my arm. Shake-
speare and me drag Mac Ross
out and shove him in the prowl-
car.
Guess I’m in something of a
daze all the way down town. I
can’t get this Mac Ross angle at
all. It should have been Olnec
in that garden. It should have
been Olnec shooting.
I take another look at the
stinking hump I’m holding up,
just to make sure it isn’t Olnec.
My mind is starting to work. I’m
remembering things that hap-
pened and things that was said
back in Bellerive. Like the way
Fredericka looked when I said
Carson had been murdered. Like
the way
Shakespeare says, “He’s one
of them Rosses, isn’t he?”
“That’s right.”
“What the hell was he gunning
after you for?”
“You tell me. I reckoned he
was someone else.”
“Who?”
“Bird named Olnec.”
“Olnec? Olnec?”
“Another one of the Rosses,”
I says. “Kind of adopted one.
Adopted by Mrs. Amber.”
“Wonder what’s doing out
there?”
“Out at Willets?”
“Yair. Gee, it looks like being
a big night, Delaney.”
“Before God,” I says, “it
could of been my last night.”
“Only Bowers got it instead of
you,” he says. He’s real savage
when he says it. I don’t say
anything. I’m not pleased about
Bowers. But he bought it.
Nobody with any sense stands in
a lighted doorway when some
crazy galoot is shooting from the
dark. I’m sorry about Bowers,
but he bought it, rushing out like
that.
“I don’t know whether you’d
have been #ny loss, Delaney,”
Shakespeare says. “But Bowers
was a decent cove. He makes
two police dead through you.
First Jardine, and now Bowers.
A bloody lot of good you are,
Delaney.”
I don’t say anything. Maybe
I got nothing to say. Maybe I
could have said plenty. What’s
the use?
We pull-up at the police-station
under the pepperinas and get out
and take hold of Mac Ross and
cart him inside. He’s stopped
shivering and whimpering now.
He’s sort of half-asleep.
We go through the door into
the main room and behind the
desk is Sergeant Arentz. But I
hardly look at him. And I nearly
drop Mac Ross. Because there’s
{Continued on page 25)


HARCARSmht
■
■tev r tr/ Ma "»* t,d.
D «ar Sir,
Wa f® a Wag ga ,
from yonr OC, ° ber ’ 1953
(3) &A 29 tons F ;»'” Post 8 Ha * ga ” S Saw U«lt.
During this p eri . f 1 F "-e Wood? fusts 6' * 6 « ,
X" -.it: " s r “ ®
reco ““««d SrsLS? perfoJT! 8 - . s " eetB of Ri "Ss.
lam " „. lew ™«or Cart*^'«•« Sleeve and - Wood -
o f this -
Yours f aithfull y>
<£Lo?oS
HM
> :
• but the new.
HARGANS MpAM
does even better!
its
ADJUSTABLE CHASSIS
sees to that!
Straddles and rips logs 2 ft. in
diameter! Cuts vertically 5 to 7 ft.
above ground! Cuts horizontally
as low as 12 ins. above ground!
Never before has a mobile power
saw been capable of such a range of
blade work. Whether felling or mill-
ing, the Hargans TIMBER CHIEF with
its flexible chassis gets the edge on
all other saws.
Set the saw to suit your own height,
too. Tall, short or anywhere in
between, the TIMBER CHIEF can be
"tailored to measure" for any cutting,
it's an exclusive feature.
Other outstanding chassis features
include:
• larger wheels • streamlined “easy
grip" handles • double fork assembly
•• folding vee-strut • depth control
chain.
HARGANS OWNERS!
Convert your existing Hargans to a
"Timber Chief" at low cost. Send for
full details.
&
WALK IT AWAY...
Thanks to Hargans handy
positive self-drive (optional
extra), after only two
simple adjustments you can
squeeze the handle grips
and the simple, powerful
Hargans self-drive comes
into play to propel the
"Timber Chief" at normal
walking speed, anywhere
you wish.
Note auxiliary blade
position for safe transport.
dsf
sd
fs
ASK FOR A DEMONSTRATION ON YOUR OWN
LAND TO-DAY!
Australasian Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Phone BU 5095. Letters: Box 509, G.P.0., Sydney.
Branches at Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
H 512.155


two people sitting in chairs
against the wall.
Fredericka and Olnec.
Just sitting there, staring, as
we come in.
21. Mrs. Amber
OLNEC and Fredericka sit
there and stare at Shake-
speare and I drag Mac Ross in.
Fredericka sees who we got and
she jumps to her feet with a kind
of cry. Olnec is up, too, with a
hand on her arm.
“Oh, my ’God,” Fredericka
sings out and she drops back in
the chair and puts her face in her
hands and starts sobbing and
shaking. Olnec just stands there.
He looks at us like he wants to
kick us in the teeth. Not because
we got Mac and Mac's a wreck,
but because of the way he feels
about Fredericka.
I let go of Mac and Shake-
speare jerks him up in front of
Arentz. But they can’t make
anything out of Mac.
“Better just put him in and
we’ll get a doctor,” Arentz says.
He’s so calm about it you’d
think Mac Ross was just another
drunk.
Shakespeare tows Mac through
a door to the cells. Olnec sits
down and tries to comfort Mrs.
Amber. Arentz picks up the
telephone. I lean against the desk
and take the reaction.
Arentz finishes calling the
doctor and hangs-up and looks
at me.
“That swine shot Bowers,” I
tell him.
I’m shaking because of the
reaction and can hardly keep my
voice straight. Arentz stares at
me over the desk and is about to
say something when Shakespeare
comes back. I go’ over and sit
in a chair while Shakespeare talks
to Arentz. I’m like I’m full of
air and my head floating and ft
lump of heavy dough in my
stomach. Because of the reaction.
I get out a cigarette and light it
and try to ride the reaction while
Shakespeare tells Arentz about
Mac Ross and Bowers. v
They’re still talking when cars
pull up outside and a herd of
police come in. They’ve got
Lester and Bert Ross and the
truck-driver named Johnnie and-
two other men I don’t know.
Mitchell isn’t with them, but
Inspector McLardie and Keesing
and Dickens are. The place is
full of cops and people. The fat
newspaper boy comes in and
behind him his cameraman. The
cameraman starts flashing his
bulbs around. It helps me with
the reaction when I see them.
Because they missed the big
picture. They been out on a
raid on a rum-mill with the cops,
but they missed the-pictures they
could have got at Mellish’s house.
That makes me grin.
Next thing Mellish is there.
Joyce, too. She sights me and
pushes through the crowd and
stands beside me. I get up and
make her sit in the chair. Mellish
still got his ,410 and he shoves
his way through and gets to Mc-
Lardie and starts to talk to him.
McLardie bends his head to
listen.
After a while it gets sorted out
and Mellish comes for Joyce and
me and takes us through a door
into a room I know. The room
where McLardie and Keesing
were doing me over when
Arentz stood up to them. Mc-
Lardie and Keesing are there, so
is Shakespeare. He’s at the table,
with his shorthand-book ready.
Busy man, Shakespeare, shoot-
ing at Mac Ross one minute, tak-
ing shorthand the next.
Dickens comes in, and with
him Olnec and Mrs. Amber. A
cop brings some chairs in and
presently we’re all seated.
“All right,” McLardie says.
“I’ll want statements from all of
you. I don’t care who starts first.
You ready, Constable?”
Shakespeare shows him the
pencil.
Nobody says anything.
“How about you, Delaney?
You seem to have taken a leading
part in all this,” McLardie says.
I look at him. I don't like him
any more now than when he
stood over me that night, with
Keesing ramming me in the ribs.
Before I can say anything
Mellish pipes up, “We represent
Delaney, Inspector, as you well
know. You also know that he is,
at present, on bail on a charge of
murder. He is not required to
make a statement.”
McLardie’s face goes red and
tight.
“Have you spoken to Mr.
Mitchell?” Mellish asks.
McLardie stops short and
looks around. He sees Mrs.
Amber and Olnec sitting there.
“Are you Mrs. Amber?” he
asks.
“I am.”
She’s got her nerve back. She’s
white and quiet, but she’s got
her nerve back.
“Ah. And you, are you Peter
Olnec?”
“So.”
Mitchell looks at them for a
moment. Then he says, “I mighi
as well tell you that” —he looked
at a paper in his hand —“that?
Lester Ross has told us every-
thing.”
Olnec says something in his
own language. Fredericka looks
at Mitchell, and her eyes are big
and shining.
“Very well,” she says.
Mitchell turns to Inspector
McLardie.
“I want them both charged,”
he says, “with everything there
is about making and selling illicit
liquor.”
“All right,” McLardie says,
“but there’s more to it than that.
At Mr. Mellish’s house tonight
there was shooting and Constable
Bowers lost his life. We have
the man who did it. His name is
Mac —Mac Ross. So I mean to
get statements from these people.
You see”
“We tried to stop it! We
tried to stop it! ” she says.
McLardie takes her hands and
eases her back to her chair.
“All right now. All right now,”
he says. “We’ll have to get some
order into this.”
“Perhaps I could start?”
Mitchell says.
So Mitchell tells his side of it,
with Shakespeare getting it down.
It’s the same as he told Mellish
and me up to where we picked
up Joyce and drove to Mellish’s
place and the big sedan trails us.
“Delaney will have something
to say about that,” he says.
“We tried to stop it! All we
tried to do was stop it!”
Fredericka cuts in.
Olnec quietens her and
Mitchell goes on telling about
collecting the police and raiding
the mill. It was like he guessed
before he left Mellish’s house.
The police got round the mill and
went in and there was Lester and
Bert and Johnnie and the Other
two working with spanners and
pulling the still to pieces. But
they were too late and Mitchell
got all he wanted, with about
fifty gallons of rum, and they
load Lester and the rest of them
into cars. On the way to Murray-
ford Lester drops his bundle —
these peanut-wolves got no guts
for the big-stuff—and tells
Mitchell the whole pitch.
McLardie and Mellish ask
Mitchell a few questions and he
answers them. Then it’s my turn.
So I tell over again what I told
Mitchell and Mellish. Shake-
speare gets it all down. Mitchell
pulls out the bullet he found in
the morgue and I pull out the
ones I emptied from the gun.
They bring in the gun Shake-
speare took from Mac and there’s
no doubt about the bullets.
McLardie says to me, “When
you guessed that sedan was tail-
ing you tonight, why didn’t you
drive to the police-station?”
“I don’t owe you birds any-
thing,” I says. “I come to the
police first off, when Mitchell
called me up that morning about
Carson being no accident. I
don’t have to tell you what sort
of a welcome Jardine gave me.
Later on, whep I try to tell you
about Jardine shooting himself
in my room you get Keesing to
do me over and you’re flat-out
to pin murder on me. What
makes you think I got any reason
to look to the police for any
help, you big ape?” McLardie’s
standing there, taking this, look-
ing down at the table, and I kind
of get worked up. Because it
rushes back on me about him and
this Keesing and this is the first
chance I got to tell them
what
“Delaney,” Mellish says, cold.
“Restrain yourself. This is no
time for recriminations.”
I might have told him some-
thing, too, only Joyce puts a
hand on my arm and it’s like the
words stopped dead.
“All right,” I says. “No
recriminations, as you call ’em.
Well, like I said, my opinion of
these Murrayford police isn't
anything to write home about,
not the way they treated me. So
when I spot that sedan and 1
guess it’s Olnec and he’s got a
gun and looking for me I show
him a bit of fancy driving and
we slip them. All I wanted to
do was get rid of Mr. Mellish and
Joyce—Miss Martin —and then
go out and let Olnec find me. Be-
cause by this time I knew he shot
Carson and I wanted”
“He didn’t! He didn’t! It
was Mac!”
Mrs. Amber is on her feet.
She’s white in the face and her
eyes big and she’s got a high look
on her that keeps us quiet.
, “He didn’t! It was Mac,” she
cries out. “Peter wouldn’t kill
anybody. He didn’t even know
Mr. Carson had been shot till
tonight. He thought it was an
accident, like me and everybody
else. It was only when you told
me that about this Mitchell
person, Delaney, that I began to
“Blast it! Oil again!”
realise it. I didn’t realise at once.
Not at once. Bqt I knew there
was something. That’s why I was
anxious for you to get away from
Willets. Because you frightened
me. You made me think you
might get shot. It was horrible.”
She put her hands over her
face and dropped into the chair
again. Olnec stood beside her,
looking down at the floor.
After a while McLardie says,
“What makes you think Mac
Ross shot Mr. Carson, Mrs.
Amber?”
“Because it’s so clear,” she
says, through her hands and
shaking herself from side to side.
“He always was —was hot-
headed and”
“He’s crazy mad,” I says.
“Quiet, you! ” snaps Mc-
Lardie. “Go on, Mrs. Amber.”
“It’s his gun, Mac’s gun,” she
says. “Peter took it from him.
It was the day after—after Mr.
Carson was killed. Mac had had
the gun quite a while, but we only
thought he was silly. But the
day after Mr. Carson was killed
Peter and Mac quarrelled and
Mac threatened Peter with the
gun and Peter took it from him.
He”
“What did they quarrel
about?”
“It —well, Mac had been
quarrelsome for some time, ever
since Mr. Carson warned us that
the revenue people were looking
for the still. Mac was with us
that night, the night Mr. Carson
told us we’d have to stop making
the rum and stop selling it. He
quarrelled with Mr. Carson. He
said Mr. Carson was a fool and
that we’d keep on making the
rum. Mr. Carson became angry.
He said if we kept on making the
rum we’d have to find someone
else to distribute it. Because he
meant to get out of it until the
revenue people gave up. Mac
wouldn’t have that. You see, he
hated losing the money. He was
getting quite a lot of money out
of it. We all were.”
Fredericka stopped and
brought her face out of her
hands. . , .
“Could I have a drink of water,
please?” she asks.
Dickens goes out and comes
back with some water. We wait
while she drinks it.
“After Mr Carson left us that
night,” she goes on, “we drove
back to Willets—we’d met him at
Allendale. We always met there.
Mr. Carson thought it was best
that way. We left him there that
night,” she goes on, “we drove
Mac was swearing. He said
we’d have to watch Mr. Carson.
He said Mr. Carson might go
and tell somebody about us. He
said we ought to stop Mr.
Carson. He was angry and say-
ing mad things. I—l’m afraid we
didn’t take him seriously. I wish
we had. Oh, God, I wish we had! ”
She goes into her shaking
again.
I got it then.
“That ought to be enough for
you,” I says, to McLardie.
“After they got back, to Willets
this Mac got his gun and went on
the highway and waited for
Carson. Because Carson would
give them time —maybe a half-
hour —to get back before hq’d
leave Allendale. So Mac waits
and he signals Carson and gets
close and shoots him. Then he
makes it look like an accident.
He jacks up the wheel and takes
it off and pulls Carson out and
lays him with his head under the
hub and”
“Wasn’t he taking a risk?”
Dickens asks. “You want us to
believe he did all this, out on a
main highway, with cars coming
along?”
“Believe what you like,” I
says. “But Mitchell here can
prove where he got the bullet
and your own smart boys can
prove the bullet fits Mac’s gun.”
I go across the room to Mrs.
Amber and stand by her.
“Listen, Mrs. Amber,” I says.
“Was you with Olnec in that
sedan that was tailing us?”
“Yes,” she says. “You
remember how you left Willets.
Well, I told the two of them what
you told me about Mr. Mitchell
and Peter tackled Mac about it.
We quarrelled. You remember
you threw the gun on the bed.
Before we could stop him Mac
rushed and got the gun and
rushed out of the house. We
called to him and looked for
him, but he was gone. Then we
saw that one of the utility trucks
was gone. So we guessed what
Mac was doing. We guessed he
meant to find you, Delaney. So
we got the car and came to
Murrayford to find you our-
selves. We wanted to warn you.
We tried to catch your to warn
you, but you got away from us.”
“Is that right?” I ask Olnec.
“It is right.”
“And that’s why you tele-
phoned to Mellish’s house and
told them to tell me to stay
inside?”
“Yes, it is Why.”
He stands there and his face
don’t change. He’s kind of proud
to be standing there, because the
way he sees it he’s watching over
his love. And he’s proud. They’ll
maybe both go to jail over the
rum-running. Even if they get
out of all this with no more than
a fine, Fredericka is finished.
But that don’t trouble Olnec.
He’ll be with her to the end. So
he’s proud.
There’s a fair bit of talking
after that. The cops checking
over things and asjdng questions.
Then Mellish says, “Well,
after all this. Inspector McLardie,
I suppose you’ll concede that
Delaney’s version of the Jardine
affair is the correct one?”
McLardie isn’t giving anything
away.
“You tell me why I should,”
he says.
“We must say,” says Mellish,
“that if you weren’t prejudiced
agajnst Delaney it would be
obvious to you. You’ve been
told that Jardine knew of the
rum-running and h6w, because
of his —er —affection from Mrs.
Amber he kept quiet.* Isn’t it
obvious that when Delaney went
to him with the story of Mr.
Mitchell calling him about Mr.
Carson he received a terrific
shock? Isn’t it obvious that his
prompt seizure of Delaney was
the action of a man in a panic?
Isn’t it obvious that, thinking
better of his first attempt to try
and quieten Delaney he began to
worry as to just who Delaney
might be? That he went to
Delaney’s hotel to question him
and, finding Delaney not there,
took the opportunity to look
through Delaney’s belongings
in the hope of identifying
him? Isn’t it reasonable that,
upon Delaney bursting in on him,
he realised that his whole
response to Delaney’s calling on
him would look wrong and
decidedly suspicious?
“Look at it this way. In-
spector,” says Mellish. “Jardine
is an upright /and thoughtful
police-officer, uecause of Mrs.
Amber he has made a grave
error. How grave he doesn’t
realise until Delaney comes with
his talk of murder. Then, faced
by Delaney, let us say frightened
of Delaney, he is suddenly
appalled by his situation and kills
himself. I ask you, isn’t that
feasible?”
There’s a silence. Every eye
in the room is on the old boy.
He’s standing there, with his
head back and his chin up, like
he must have been when he was
young and fighting a case in the
court.
You can almost hear the
silence.
Then McLardie says. Will
that be your answer to the
charge?”
“It will. And in the hands or
a good defence counsel, with the
background of all that has hap-
pened, it cannot fail. Delaney
is not guilty of murder,
Inspector! ”
There’s another silence. Mc-
Lardie is staring at the ceiling.
Then he gives a shrug, as though
he’s tired.
“We’ll probably withdraw the
charge,” he says.
I go across that room and put
my arms round old Mellish and
hug him and thump him on the
back
Joyce don’t thump him. She
puts her arms round him and
kisses him. The old boy looks
round, sort of dazed for a
moment, then a little bit of a grin
breaks on his lined face.
“Well, well,” he says, “we have
had some exciting times, haven't
we? Now, if you’ll excuse us, we
really must telephone Mrs.
Mellish. It’s so very late and
she’ll be anxious.”
I look at my watch and nearly
fall down. Because it’s 12.42 a.m.
I look at Joyce. She’s prac-
tically all in.
“How about supper, kid. I
suppose there’s an all-night cafe
in this town?”
“Del, Td fall asleep in my
coffee. I’m utterly unable to
stand up a moment longer,”
“All right,” I say. “Sleep as
long as you like. Because it’s
over now. It’s all over.”
Tthe, end]


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IS 7B.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRDAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER, HERBERT M. DOITGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager,
branches m ail States Agencies In all Country Centres
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ....
ADDRESS
df
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
. . ...
{Please add exchange to country cheques)
Missing Friends
WOULD JAMES THOMAS ARMSTRONG,
the son of James Armstrong and Eliza-
beth Broomfield Armstrong, who emi-
grated from Scotland in the 1850’s and
afterwards resided at various places in
Victoria and Southern New South Wales,
or any descendant of JAMES THOMAS
ARMSTRONG, please communicate with-
out delay with MESSRS. BLAKE &
RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120 William Street,
Melbourne.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of the driver of a green late
model Ford or Chevrolet Utility Truck
which was involved in an accident with
Motor Vehicle MW93O on the Nerrandera-
Grong Grong road about seven miles east
of Narrandera at approximately 5.30 p.m.
on 26th April, 1954, or anything con-
cerning the accident communicate with
the nearest Police Station or MESSRS.
MATTHEWS & HANGAR, Solocitors,
Narrandera, urgently.
HAYES.—WiII LORNA FAY HAYES, nee
GREENWOOD, or anyone knowing her
present whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Sydney.
Public Notice
We, VICTOR KOMAROFF, White Rus-
sians, born at Petropavlock Kamchatka,
Russia, and OLGA KOMAROFF, born at
Perm, Russia, resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 97 Patterson
Street, Concord, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
m
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
range.
JL fvery LAY IN A has
magnetic escapement
17-jewel led movement.
a non-
and a
Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17- jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
lAVtMA
' WATCHES
X (tfru 4 i
SPORTING NOTIONS
Opening day of the current
Q.T.C. meeting in Brisbane .was
most profitable to Sydney owners
and jockeys, as Charente, Gallant
Archer, Karendi, Electro and
Double Blank won five of the
seven races, jockey Bill Gamer
winning the two principal events,
the Stradbroke Handicap and the
St. Leger. W. Cook scored on
the heavily-backed Charente, and
D. Munro was successful on
Gallant Archer. Other Sydney-
owned horses lifted some of the
minor place-money.
One of the first horses selected
as the likely winner of the
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap,
Karendi easily defeated Persian
Link and Kev Mar. Karendi, on
the first line of wagering from the
day weights appeared, started at
3 to 1, favorable for a near-
certainty.
Karendi had won the A.J.C.
Doncaster Handicap, and though
he had advanced sharply in
weight, the extra poundage didn't
affect him —the first win-
ning favorite of the Stradbroke
in 19 years. He is an entrant for
the Doomben Ten Thousand, but
whether he will remain in Bris-
bane for that event has yet to be
determined.
• • • • •
Persian Link had no luck in
the early part of the race, other-
wise he would have made it more
interesting for the brilliant
winner. Birdwood probably was
flown to Brisbane too close to the
running of the race, while Gay
Vista is no champion at seven
furlongs. Electro, winner of the
Q.T.C. St. Leger, started at
5 to 4 on.
What’s wrong with Sydney’s
owners and trainers when only
six acceptors are paid-up for in
an important sprint and only five
start for a £l5OO stake (June
Stakes ; main winter six-furlongs
handicap)? Reason for the with-
drawal of 19 of 25 entrants at
acceptance-time for last Satur-
day’s Randwick race (though the
original topweight, Birdwood,
held a Stradbroke Handicap
engagement in Brisbane) is hard
to fathom. Grizzles by owners
and trainers about a lack of
opportunities for racing seem so
much eyewash. There’s no
shortage of horses in the Sydney
metropolitan area, as at two
tracks alone, Randwick and
Rosebery, there are about 700
of them in training. Admittedly,
Several of the leading jockeys
were in Brisbane, but that was no
excuse for such a small field. In
the event New Zealander Impress
had his first win in Australia.
Nilene (2000gns. as a yearling
at the Randwick sales last year)
defeated a weak field of fillies in
the Randwick Two-year-old
Novice, for which she had good
backing at 5 to 1. She narrowly
downed Sabah, raced by A.J.C.
committeeman Keith Mackay.
Sabah is a filly of promise. She
was having her first race-start.
Nilene is a sister to Evening Bell,
a Warwick Farm and Canterbury
two-year-old winner a couple of
seasons ago, while she also is
closely related to The Trump
and Victory Lad. She is a
daughter of imported Nilo and
May Buzz by The Buzzard
(imp.).
Hundreds of backers of Caspar
(Randwick Botany Handicap)
began a frantic search for
betting - tickets when some
minutes after Caspar had finished
third to Idlewild and Seacraft an
official announcement wds broad-
cast that J. Thompson, rider of
Caspar, had protested against
both the winner and runner-up
for alleged interference in the
closing stages of the race. The
hearing lasted some time before
the objection was dismissed.*
Meantime many backed Caspar
at. 10 to 1. Others, who had
supported the winner at 10’s and
B’s, also supported Caspar as a
saver. Then again many backed
Seacraft to get the race in the
photo-finish, Thompson did
appear to be cramped for gallop-
ing room, but hardly sandwiched
enough to warrant altering the
placings. What the backers of
Idlewild didn’t know was that his
jockey, R. Selkrig, had to call
for the bridle to draw correct
weight. Selkrig had weighed-
out right, but was found to be
11b. 3oz. short of the required
lOst. when he weighed-in, and
mystery of that lost poundage
remained unsolved on race-day.
C. P. Edwards, a pastoralist
up in the Gulf country. North
Queensland, owns Gulf Palm,
who is by Royal Trophy (imp.)
from Palm Branch (imp./, and
cost Edwards a modest 230 gns.
as a yearling. The youngster has
now had two Randwick wins.
Gulf Palm is as nervous as a
cat, both on and off the course,
but he is a stoutly-bred colt and
should go on to further successes.
He is trained at Rosebery by for-
mer jockey Vic. Thompson, who
still is light enough to ride him
in most of his training. Because
of his nervousness Gulf Palm is
not given much fast work, but he
was turned out ip fine order for
Saturday’s Randwick Juvenile
Novice, the winning cheque be-
ing £6BB. Gulf Palm might
develop into a smart stayer. One
of his relatives, Sugar Palm, won
22 races in England over varying
distances.
England’s Epsom saw the rare
spectacle of the head stable-lad
leading in the winner of the
English Derby, American-owned
Never Say Die, a rank outsider,
ridden by an 18-year-old appren-
tice Lester Piggott, a horseman
with already a brilliant record.
The owner, R. S. Clark, a re-
tired New York financier, didn’t
make the crossing for the classic,
and was surprised that one of
his team won it. He hasn’t
started a horse in the U.S. for 20
years, following a dispute with
American Turf controllers. He
has raced his horses in France
and in England. He owns a stud
in Virginia where Never Say Die
was foaled. Lester Piggott is a
son of Keith Piggott, a former
steeplechase jockey of note,
while his grandfather won the
English Grand National three
times. His great-grandfathers
won the Derby, as did a great-
great-grandfather truly an
amazing family sequence!
Australians there for the
Derby paid Is. for racebooks, as
against 2s. in Sydney, and were
given similar* information.
Stewards for the Epsom summer
meeting were the Earl of Rose-
bery, the Duke of Norfolk and
Sir Humphrey de Trafford
Never Say Die’s success netted
£16,959 for his American owner ;
second owner received £2007, and
third £lOO3. There were 400
entrants, the forfeits helping to
swell stakemoney. The field of
22 didn’t include a filly, and the
colts carried 9st, against 8.10 in
this country.
Randwick trainer Frank Dal-
ton has enjoyed a good run of
success with New Zealand-bred
two-year-olds which he pur-
chased as yearlings at the
Dominion sales on behalf of
Sydney clients. Latest addition
to the list, Shereef, owned by
Norman Fraser, opened its
account at Hawkesbury in a
Second Two-year-old Maiden.
Shereef, who cantered in at even
money, is a smart-looking
youngster by Pherozshah (imp.)
from Jolly by Arausio (imp.)
from Marion’s Birthday by
Psychology (imp.). Jolly is a
half-sister to Happy Returns,
unraced dam of four winners,
including Courtship (Kirkham
and December Stakes), and is
grand-dam of Forest Beau
(Q.T.C. Derby). Dalton trained
Courtship.
Rosebery trainer Joe Stapleton
is preparing one of the few
descendants of Nasrullah in
Australia, Nasrullah is sire of
the English Derby winner, Never
Say Die. Stapleton’s youngster
is Canny Chiel, who recently
resumed training after a spell.
Canny-Chiel has done little rac-
ing, but is a Randwick place-
getter. He is a brother to the
2000 gns. yearling bought at the
Randwick sales last April by
Stapleton for a Melbourne
owner; later that yearling will
also be trained at Rosebery.
Both are by Berrylands (imp.)
from Banrullah (imp.) by Nas-
rullah from Bannlaw by Son-in-
Law and on the dam’s side go
back to Persimmon.
The Fijians (Rugby Union),
barnstorming at Wagga (N.S.W.),
beat Riverina 29-6. Several of
the Riverina blokes are favorably
known to city Rugby Union
fanciers. Fullback Graham was
considered for selection for
South Africa, and centre Bush
played well in a curtain-raiser to
the Fijians’ first game. Ralph
Garner, who’s a sawbones in
those parts, played Rugby
League before he came to Syd-
ney, where he played on the
wing for University. Ralph had
pace and a tricky sidestep, and
made State and Australian sides.
But in club football they began
to wake-up to the sidestep, and
perhaps he found it harder to
train as a resident than as a
student. Maybe the country air
has revived him; anyway, he
scored Riverina’s only try, snap-
ping-up a loose ball, outpacing
winger Domoni (who, in Sydney,
was outshone by Levula, but at
Wagga it was the other way
round), sidestepping Vuivuda,
and scoring between the posts.
In Rugby Union club games
on Saturday Gordon beat East-
wood, 17-14, a bit of a surprise
after Gordon had been beaten
by Northern Suburbs the
previous Saturday. But Gordon
had Phipps back from inter-
nationalising in Brisbane; and
another interesting returnee was
lock Brian Johnson, back after
injuries, and not quite fit, but
promising something of his Wal-
laby form, Yanz, in writer’s
opinion a forward good enough
for an Australian team, played
very well for Gordon, as half
Muller did likewise for East-
wood.
Northern Suburbs, perhaps, is
not such a weak team as is
generally believed. On Saturday
St. George had trouble beating
them, 8-6. St. George is winger
Stapleton’s -club, and another
winger, Tony Fox, is showing
promise. Randwick beat Drum-
moyne 37-13, Herb Barker scor-
ing 16 points (a try and 6 goals).
Another one-sided affair was
University’s 57-3 win over Par-
ramatta, nearly as good (or as
bad) as the winning club’s record
score —60 against G.P.S. Old
Boys. Manly beat Eastern
Suburbs 11-6.
* * *
In the first Rugby League Test
at Sydney Cricket Ground, Aus-
tralia beat the Englishmen 37-12.
First half was even enough, al-
though the English forwards
were a bit loose, but after the
first ten minutes of the second
half the Australian forwards
dominated the game completely.
It’s so rare for an English team,
League or Union, to be beaten
by an Australian side in this
department of the game that
there must be some explanation
other than the theory that the
Australian pack is one of the
“best ever,” or that the English-
men are off their tucker. Still,
the Australian forwards were
pretty good.
♦ * ♦
The three V.F.L. games de-
cided on Saturday were a
mixture of pretty good and
absolutely woeful booting—the
former in North Melbourne’s
13.13 win over Collingwood,
10.12; and the atrocity variety
in both the other games, in one
of which Fitzroy misbooted to
the tune of 6.17 against Rich-
mond’s 11.13, while St. Kilda
did its best to set a season-record
by hoofing 2.18 (without a point
in the last quarter) to be
thoroughly wiped by Souths,
13.18.
♦ ♦ ♦
By no means the brilliant
prospect his supporters credited
him with being, Darby Brown
(10.4 D was still too strong for
Mickey McDonald (10.6) at
Leichhardt Stadium, McDonald
going down to defeat on points
in 12 rounds. Announced as
heavier than Brown, McDonald
looked lighter, and his continual
retreating was monotonous.
Brown knocked him half-way
through the ropes many times,
and, in round 10, clean out of the
ring.


PRODUCTS OF THE
ROOTESCROOP
PRESENTS
:
I
n
,■ •:: •
m
;gm ; <
■ii
- :
. BBiiM I
■ M
■
mm
p(
■
: a" 1 -
i
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.Y. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
WW ~~~
ase
gf 8
Wilti
■■ /- &
/ ;
m
m
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car o
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
immsmm
m
,
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still grete refinement in every detail.
Produced in the Factory of Rootes (Australia), Ltd., Fishermen's Bend, Port Melbourne.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS • COMMER, KARRIER TRUCKS


&
y
\\
-
/s
sg
fiTSf
Higher than man had flown before
One day, in 1932, Captain Cyril
Uwins flew higher than any man had
flown before. By reaching a height of
43,976 ft. in a Vickers Vespa biplane,
fitted with a Bristol Pegasus engine,
he brought the world’s aeroplane
altitude record to Britain for the
first time.
The special fuel used on the flight
was developed and prepared at
AJ.O.G.’s Sunbury Research Station.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments
and demands, it is ready at all times
to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
Vaviatidh
sd
SERVICE^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH Oil REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd Us*
MOBILE WORKSHOP TRUCK
Ideal for station mechanic. Thames 3 ton chassis (less than 500
miles) with steel panelled body; wood floor; large perspex window
in roof; quick-action, heavy-duty, folding steps; double doors giv
40in. wide access; mounted with as new Armstrong Siddeley 14 ii-v-
Diesel, direct-coupled to 9 K.Y.A., 3 phase 415 volt alternate ,
complete with silencer, automatic voltage control, meters, switcu
panel, etc.
Cab fitted with cross bubbles for levelling—steel levelling ramps
for 3 wheels.
Inside measurements of body, 7ft. wide, lift, long, 7ft. 4in. head
room. Registered until 29th January, 1955.
Just the thing for mounting lathe, welder, grinder, etc., for self-
contained mobile workshop.
This unit is as new,-was made up to conduct experiment now
concluded.
Price £2,600 or offer.
Apply “WORKSHOP,” c/- BOX 906, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHY IS A COMMUNIST?
The last six of 41 Com-
munists convicted in the U.S.A.
of advocating the violent over-
throw of the Government were
fined 10,000 dollars each and
given sentences ranging from
four to five years.
In passing sentence on them,
Judge Frank A. Picard com-
mented (as reported in “U.S.
News and World Report”) :
“You have been convicted of
one of the gravest offences of
which a citizen may be guilty—a
plot, a conspiracy, to overthrow
your Government by force and
violence. That’s akin to
treason.
“You are not ignorant people
at all. You are far from stupid.
You are educated, intelligent and
God has been good to you in
many ways, particularly in giving
you the ability to express your-
selves.
“I have been trying to analyse
just how your minds work. 1
think that you are sincere in that
you really believe in Communism
and that you want to better the
lot of the so-called proletariat or
the people who have been, as
you claim, exploited.
“The only trouble with you is
that in addition to your own
extremely liberal ideas that put
every capitalist in the role of a
villain, you have been attacked
by a virus known as ‘Russianitis,’
and you really are gullible
enough to think that if you could
get control —with the help of
Russia —of this country you
would be able to shrug-off
Russia and then enjoy the mil-
lennium or paradise that you
envision. Either that or you
believe you would be big shots
in this country as part of a world
organisation independent to some
extent of Russia.
“But, if you would give one-
tenth of your thoughts to what
would happen if you did get
control of these United States
through force and violence and
the help of Russia —just one-
tenth of your time to that instead
of expounding your theories and
working for the party —you
ought to know that, once Russia
gets in, liberty and freedom go
out the door.
“Once Communism gets in, it
can’t stay in without dictatorship
and tyranny. That’s what hap-
pened in Poland, Czechoslovakia
and I can prophesy—yes,
guarantee—that if you ever were
successful that within five years
you would be the first to get
kicked out by the Kremlin
powers. The local commissars
always get the worst of it. They
are getting the worst of it in
Poland; they are getting the
worst of it in Germany. There’s
only one ruler.
“Then would come a tyranny
that you would shrink from
inflicting, and you wouldn’t be
going to jail and you wouldn't
be standing in a court where
you had a fair trial. There would
come a knock at your door some
night; you wouldn’t be able to
say good-bye to your wife and
children. You’d be on the way
to some concentration-camp in
Siberia where men are lost for
ever.”
After reviewing the Communist
somersaulting during World
War II (as agile and ludicrous in
the U.S. as it was in Australia),
the Judge continued:
“Today you are in favor of
the Russian interpretation of
Tehran, Yalta and the North
Atlantic pacts —not the United
States interpretation. You used
to be on the side of Tito. Now
you don’t like him any more.
Neither does Russia. You were
against the participation of the
United States or the United
Nations in the Korean war. So
was Russia. You were against
little Finland. So was Russia.
You are in favor of admitting
Communist Chipa into the
United Nations. So is Russia.
“In your minds, this country
is only right when it believes as
Russia believes. The only time
you have been with the United
States was when Russia and the
United States happened to be
fighting on the same side, and yet
you told this court that you
didn’t want Russian Communism
in this country. You have a new
kind of American Communism
or Socialism. Oh, how, how
simple and naive can you be,
can you people get, even after
what has happened in those
countries that have been
engulfed by Russia.
“Your admiration for Russia is
so great that there isn’t any
doubt in my mind, and there
wasn’t any doubt in the jury’s
mind, that there is nothing you
wouldn’t do —lie, cheat, or even
worse —in order to attain your
objectives. That you know you
are a part of an international
conspiracy to rule the world by
Communism.”
After offering to arrange for
any of the accused to be sent to
Russia, if they preferred that to
their sentence, the judge
“Het Parool,” Amsterdam
THE BEAR-DUTCH VIEW.
addressed each of them individu-
ally. Then he went on:
“I don’t hope to succeed by
these remarks in converting any,
of you where others who are
more persuasive have failed.
There were times during this
trial when I felt that you just
despised capitalists and brass-
hats because you weren’t one of
them. I have discarded that
thought. This morning I’m giv-
ing you the benefit of saying you
believe in your cause, but
whether you do or not is
immaterial, for that cause has so
engulfed your thinking, so
dominated your every move to
the extent that five of you took
the stand and lied about what you
believe because you thought the
end justified the means in your
opinion. You really think you
are martyrs.
“But you’re not going to jail
for your belief. Nor for any
books. You can read them all.
You’re going to jail because you
want to force those beliefs on
others. Not because you can’t
have them. As I said to you in
the charge, you can believe any-
thing—even that we ought to
have a monarchy in this country
—but you can’t force those
beliefs on others by force and
violence. So you’re not martyrs
—you’re goats—and Russian
goats at that.”
Geneva and
Indo-China
Press views on the Geneva
Conference and Indo-China boil
down in the main to the fact that
the Allies have four more-or-less
unpleasant roads open to them:
an uneasy armistice; retreat;
war ; a collective show of force
sufficient to halt the Com-
munist advance. Typical
comment;
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Whatever the Geneva Confer-
ence produces, it cannot produce
a sufficient guarantee against
further Communist aggression
either in Indo-China or elsewhere
in Asia. It may, if the Western
Powers are sufficiently united’ and
strong, bring aggression to a
temporary halt. If that halt can
be brought about by diplomacy
alone, well and good. But even
if it can, it will have been worth
doing only if the West uses the
breathing-space to reinforce its
positions in Asia.
“In dealing with the Com-
munists, diplomacy is no sub-
stitute for strength and unity.
Communist expansion in Europe
was brought to a stop only when
the Western Powers had, by
organising their collective-
security system, made it clear
that no further advances could
be made without the risk of a
major war. That we have not yet
arrived at that position in Asia
was made clear before the
Geneva Conference began.
“This situation seems now to
be generally recognised in
America. Its recognition is also
implied in the statement which
the [British] Prime Minister
made to the House. He
emphasised that the Government
had not embarked on any
‘negotiation involving commit-
ments’ and that ‘final decisions'
about a collective-defence system
in South-East Asia and the
Western Pacific would not be
taken until the results of the
Geneva Conference were
known.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
commentator, David Lawrence:
“The truth is collective action for
collective security is irrepressible
as a policy.”
• • •'
The same: “The dangers of
a Third World War will seem to
have been increased if this con-
ference [Geneva] fails, for if
nothing is accomplished by face-
to-face talks, there is less hope
that war can be averted in the
next few years.”
* * ♦
Joseph and Stewart Alsop in
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“It seems roughly right to say
there is now one chance in three
of the White House asking
Congress for authority to enter
the war [in Indo-China] at some
time in the next month or six
weeks.”
* * *
General Sir Gerald Templer,
then G.O.C. Malaya: “Within
a short time after a Communist
victory in Indo-China I should
have a major war on my hands
here in Malaya.”
• * •
Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun :
“The French commanders, in
their examination of Indo-China,
will be faced with the stark fact
that the hoped-for taking of the


&
m
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. Lawry,
Sydney. Manager.
c
reasons why the
VAUXHALL
iO cwt. COUPE-UTILITIES are winning
such enthusiastic praise everywhere
a
m
City and Country, farmer and businessman ... people everywhere
are enthusiastically acfclaiming the two Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe-
Utilities. And no wonder .... see what Vauxhall offers you ...
15.63 h.p. WYVERN
Outstanding fuel
economy allied with
truly surprising per-
formance. Particularly
flexible acceleration to
deal with city traffic —
to cruise smoothly for
long periods.
23.44 h.p. VELOX
Extra power, liveliness
and flashing top gear
performance effort-
less cruising (50-55
xn.p.h.) with a new
standard of petrol
economy.
Ask about the G.M.A.C.
Confidential Hire Pur-
chase Plan. Ask, too,
about the “built-for-
Vauxhall” “Air-Chief
Car Radio.
and
Vauxhall dependable
nation - wide service.
You can be sure of
dependable service and
availability of genuine
spare parts.
Two ‘‘square” engines. Brilliantly
Vauxhall designed and engineered.
Features include longer cylinder bore,
life, longer crank shaft life, improved
breathing . .... all to give you ...
More power . . . greater economy . . .*
longer life! These square engines
have reduced piston travel and speeds
, . to give you the maximum low
revving power from every ounce of
petrol . . . and longer engine life.
10 cwt. Payload Capacity. See that
generous payload area. It s been
designed to carry your load profitably
. . . whether bn the farm or on busy
city streets.
Entirely new Vauxhall suspension.
Independent “wishbone” front and
semi-elliptical rear suspension of proven
design plus direct acting telescopic
shock absorbers give you the smoothest
ride whatever the load, or road.
Passenger Car Comfort for 3 People.
Interior follows the pleasing appoint-
ments of the Vauxhall car styling . . .
with the same roominess and spreading
comfort.
Modern Vauxhall Styling. Look at this
swift-line beauty! Here is a unit that
you’ll be proud to drive on social as
well as business occasions.
A General Motor* Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
; ' . . :• ■ ' «
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
offensive cannot now be accom-
plished. The first problem now
is to defend the Red River delta
in the north and the Saigon area:
in the south. Even that may be
difficult.”
* ♦ *
“New York Times" editorial
comment: “Our most important,
immediate offensive against
Communism in Asia must take
the form of propaganda. There
is the propaganda of the deed,
which the instigators of the
Russian revolution well under-
stood, and the deed must include
armed defensive force that could
come to the aid of peoples in
Asia attacked from the outside.
But the propaganda of the word,
of friendliness, of a new humility,
of the unfeigned acceptance of
men of different races and
different colors as brothers—this
also can be a mighty force.”
Equality for Negroes
It took the U.S. Supreme Court
two years and two hearings 10
decide that insistence on separate
schools for negroes and whites
was unconstitutional. The court’s
1896 interpretation of the 14th
Amendment to the U.S. Consti-
tution permitted separate facilities
for negroes on the condition that
they were equal to those provided
for whites; the current decision
is, in effect, that separate educa-
tional facilities are inherently
unequal.
The problem that lies ahead,
of course, is for the ruling to be
put into practice in the 17 States,
with 9,000,000 white and nearly
3,000,000 negro children, where
segregation is required either by
law or Constitution.
Hence it was important that
the court’s decision was
unanimous, and that it was de-
livered by the Chief Justice of the
United States, an office which,
as Arthur Krock notes in “New
York Times,” is second only in
prestige to that of the President.
That was also important, the
same paper comments editorially,
because “when some hostile
propagandist arises in Moscow
or Peiping to accuse us [United
States] of being a class society
we can if we wish recite the
courageous words of [the court’s]
opinion. The highest court in
the land, the guardian of our
national conscience, has re-
affirmed its faith —and the
undying American faith —in the
equality of all men and all
children before the law.”
It is worth noting, however,
as New York “Herald Tribune”
commentator Roscoe Drummond
points out, that over the last 20
years the course of opinion has
rendered segregation less and
less acceptable to the nation and
that, in effect, the court has
simply confirmed that feeling.
The waning of segregation,
contributed to by court decisions
and changing national sentiment,
is manifested in the facts that
negroes are now earning four-
times what they made in 1940, as
against white wage-earners earn-
ing two-and-a-half-times as
much; and that there are now
more than 1,000,000 registered
negro voters as against 300,000
in 1938.
Possibly the major influence on
American sentiment has been the
attitude of the armed forces. A
U.S. Information Service
pamphlet, “The U.S. Negro,
1953,” states “the great experi-
ment of integration proved once
and for all that (1) if decently
treated and trained, negroes can
fight as well as any man ; and (2)
if properly led, white Americans
from any part of the country will
live, work, fight and die side by
side with negroes.”
“In Korea,” the “Yorkshire
Post” adds, “the new policy [of
integration] has had a remark-
ably good effect upon the morale
of white as well as negro troops,
and negro officers have com-
manded white troops without
any friction.
“In industry and professional
life also the negroes are making
marked progress. Among U.S.
skilled workers and foremen the
percentage of negroes has risen
from 2\ per cent, to 4 per cent,
since 1940, and an even greater
rise has been recorded during the
same period among clerical and
sales staffs.
“For their part, moreover, the
negroes show an encouraging
sense of loyalty to the United
States. The Communists have
made extremely poor headway
among them. Communist head-
way among colored peoples in
Asia and elsewhere will be
impeded by [this] further con-
vincing evidence *ff the educa-
tional advancement and equal
rights of the American negro.”
The greatest consideration,
however, is the purely human
one, and on that the New York
“Herald Tribune” comments:
“When the 14th Amendment
was passed [lB6B] white children
throughout the South were edu-
cated privately; negroes were
scarcely educated at all.
“Since then there has grown
up a system of public education
which lies at the heart of
democracy, giving to the common
life its values and a large
measure of its cohesiveness. The
tangible aspects of the school,
its classrooms, its books, are not
the essence of this system of
education. The essence is the
very fact of being together.
“Segregation is, therefore, a
fundamental contradiction of the
whole spirit of the public-school
system.
“So the court argued, basing
its final stand on an interpretation
of the human personality. ‘To
separate them from others of
similar age and qualifications,’ it
said of the negro children,
‘generates a feeling of inferiority
as to their status in the com-
munity that may affect their
hearts and minds in a way
unlikely ever to be undone.’ ”
Russia's New Bomber
In a “U.S. News, and World
Report” appraisal, Russia’s latest
bomber is “comparable to the
U.S. Boeing B-52 in most
important respects —and the
B-52 is an eight-engine jet-
bomber that up to now was con-
sidered to be without peer. It
[the B-52] has a range of 6000
miles, can fly at over 600 miles
an hour, has a wing-span of
185 ft, and a take-off weight,
counting fuel and bomb-load, of
175 tons.”
According to first reports,
Russia’s new bomber is as big
as the B-52 or bigger and has
only four engines against the
eight of the B-52. “For that to
be true,” adds the “U.S. News
and World Report,” “the
Russians would need jet-engines
twice as powerful as the biggest
U.S. jet-engines, the Pratt and
Whitney J-57’s, which power the
B-52.
“If the Russians have such
engines, they are ahead of
America in engine-design, but
American military analysts doubt
that they actually have engines
quite that good. They think the
plane that flew in Moscow’s May
Day parade had more than four
engines—possibly two or more
buried in the wings.
“What is important, in any
case, is that Russia now has a big
jet-bomber that can attack the
U.S. and return to its base. It
will soon have a fleet of such
planes, if they do not already
exist.
“In the past, Russia had only
one-way-attack capability. It
relied upon its TU-4, an adapta-
tion of the U.S. B-29. The
TU-4, a piston-engine bomber,
can hit any target in the U.S.,
but only on a one-way basis.
“With a successful long-range
jet-bomber, fast enough to elude
interceptors and capable of round
trips from Russia to the U.S.,
the Soviets for the first time have
in their grasp the ability to
mount ‘massive’ and sustained
atomic attacks —once a U.S.
monopoly.
“Almost as if to show that (t
has plenty of newer planes com-
ing along, Russia in recent
months has turned over to China
at least 400 of its older twin-jet
bombers. These older Russian
planes are equal to the British
Canberra and the U.S. Martin
B-57 bombers —neither of which
has reached the mass-production
stage as yet.”
The World's Press
A survey of the “The Daily
Press” by Unesco reveals that, on
a population basis, British daily
newspapers have the highest
circulation in the world—6ll per
1000. After that come Sweden
(490), Luxembourg (447), Iceland
(439) and Australia (419).
“The United States,” comments
“Manchester Guardian,” “falls
below these and below Norway,
Belgium, Denmark and New
Zealand, and on a par with
Japan. Lower still come Switzer-
land, Canada, France and
Ireland.”
But with the number of news-
papers as distinct from circula-
tion the picture is very different:
“Britain has only 122 daily papers
(39 morning, 83 evening! com-
pared with 1865 in the United
States with just over three times
the population, 623 in West
Germany with a rather smaller
population, 160 in Sweden with
a seventh of the population, and
127 in Switzerland with a tenth
of the population.
“One significant thing, the
“Manchester Guardian” notes,
“is that the countries in which
(in 1952) the average size of
daily newspapers was larger than
in Britain were (in descending
order) the United States, Peru,
Canada, Brazil, Uruguay, Fin-
land, Cuba, Australia, Western
Germany, Bermuda, Hong
Kong, Panama, Sweden and
South Africa.
“Among Other favored
countries the Dominican Re-
public, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Mozambique, Venezuela and
Hawaii may be thrown in for
good measure.
. “Can the British Government
really feel comfortable that its
restrictive policy makes such a
comparison possible ? ”


FculhuilJie
Ouiwc
M
When I was a boy my grandfather gave me a
copy of Smiles’ “Self-Help.” It left a deep impress
upon my young mind.
I was reminded of Smiles this week while reading
an article on world trade since the war. The situation
that has developed is one of “self-help”—and
“helpfulness.” Nations now must help themselves,
and exert themselves in doing it; and those that can
afford to help others must do so.
The role of universal helper has fallen to America,
with her enormous resources. The way in which she
has assisted the Western World in loans and outright
gifts since the war has been extraordinarily generous.
In the realm of self-help, Britain has made con-
siderable progress towards economic recovery. That
must stiffen the balance in* sterling.
But while much has been done by these two chief
partners in democracy, the fact is that there are still
“two worlds,” with the currency wall between. The
ideal of “one world” will not be in actual sight until,
in mutual understanding, the barrier is surmounted.
Now I believe that in this bridging, Australia can
—and will —play a very important part. She has the
productive potential. She stands in special relation to
both Britain and the United States. Every million
pounds by which she is able to add to production will
bring closer the day when “self-help” meets
“helpfulness,” and the barrier will be no more.
I see the American-British-Australian triangle as a
force for tremendous good ih the world. And a
triangle, you know, is the strongest and most rigid
geometric structure. This triangle, with its points in
London, Washington and Canberra, could buttress the
whole economy on which our civilisation rests.
In this I see Australia’s destiny and her salvation.
But, first, Australians must rise to a spirit of real self-
help from within. Let us get stirring. There can be
no standing still while the world is moving on quickly
around us, and a great role awaits us.
— //.Jy 3 *'
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
pruro.
' v &«s
tHADK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■atn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
* DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACK SUL,” BRISBANE
THE POSTAL MONKEY
BY STEPHEN HELEN
I DOUBT if anyone in town
followed with more interest
the strangling of a male
chimp by his spouse at the
zoo than the “Borneo blokes”
frequenting the Great Northern.
This tragedy—probably of
frustrated love and errors —
brought back memories of half-
forgotten days on Labuan, where
the warring Nips for a while
worried us less than the fate of
Oscar and Olga.
Mainly we were worried about
Oscar, the divisional postal
monkey. Unlike other mascots,
this one had no rank, and,
actually, was treated as a civilian,
attached for “special duties” to
the Army.
Oscar’s special duties were
manifold and important. He
acted as an instrument of warning
when an enemy approached, an
alarm-clock —with his excited
chatter he woke the postal blokes
as soon as the first light of dawn
penetrated the heavy foliage of
exuberant jungle vegetation.
When the mail was delivered to
remote positions, Oscar led his
master. Sergeant Twindle,
unerringly, taking short-cuts only
a jungle creature would know.
Several times we were tempted
to ask the adjutant to enlist
Oscar, giving him a commission,
but on each occasion it was
decided that he was “too good
for the Army.”
/"\SCAR lived on a pole erected
in front of the postal tent, as
a free agent —he was then too
good and dependable to be
chained.
Twindle and Oscar were great
’ friends. Many blokes remarked
the astounding resemblance
between Twindle and his protege.
Neither of them took offence ;
rather they smiled with a sort of
self-conscious pride.
Actually, Twindle was more
than a father to the little ape,
because he picked him up, half-
starved, abandoned, a mere baby,
on the first day we landed on
Labuan. He was fed, with the
help of the R.A.P. blokes, a
special concoction of powdered-
milk, through a rubber teat.
In the early morning hours, when
the rain and cold came, Twindle
took him in his cot and kept him
warm under his armpit.
So when Twindle got his
marching-orders back to Aus-
tralia, Oscar missed him more
than any of the other apes in the
unit. It was a heartrending
farewell when we took the little
monkey down to Victoria Harbor
to farewell his patron—master
would have been hardly the word
to use.
“You’d better chain him till
he grows bigger and then let him
go into the jungle,” Twindle
advised us in a pleading tone
before boarding the L.S.T.
So we took Oscar back to the
postal tent, and bound him on a
long chain to the pole. For days
Oscar remained inconsolable,
wailing for his friend. Finally
Bluey Corrigan got the bright
idea of attaching a mirror to his
platform,- so that “he shouldn’t
feel so lonely.”
“Seeing his image may remind
him of Twindle,” was his
reasoning. It worked till Oscar
discovered that there was no
body-background, nor warmth,
to his new mate.
It was at this critical juncture
of Oscar’s life that Olga appeared
on the scene.
Olga, small, thin and very
effeminate, came out of the
jungle, and without further ado
attached herself to our desperate
friend. At first it appeared to be
an ideal match —they lived like
lovers on the specially erected
platform on top of the pole,
embracing, hugging and kissing
all day long.
COME of the more family-
minded blokes spent hours
watching the happy couple, sigh-
ing for the missus and kids they
left behind in Australia.
Major Hartley, our 1.0., was
so touched by their “harmonious”
union that he gave a lecture on
the possibilities of happy family-
life, with special reference to
Olga and Oscar, in the mess-tent.
All went well till one after-
noon —and I witnessed the
amazing change—Oscar tried to
embrace Olga., She pushed him
*away, chattered excitedly, and
then spat in his face. Oscar, his
manhood slighted, bared his
teeth at her, then turned away;
and, so far as I could judge,
burst into tears.
The following night the
inhabitants of the postal tent
were awakened by heartrending
wailing, the like of which was
never before heard in the unit
lines. They rushed out and
spotted dieir flashlight on the
tent-pole: there they saw Oscar
alone, crying. He was desperately
tagging at the chains.
It was clear that Olga had
deserted him.
Oscar took the chains in his
paws, and shook them into the
face of humanity, accusingly,
clearly indicating that if it were
not for his captivity he could
have followed and, eventually,
mastered Olga.
“The only thing we can do
now is to bring tiack Olga to
Oscar,” Private Carpenter, a new-
comer to jungle-life, suggested at
a hastily-called meeting of
Oscar’s friends.
Derisive laughter from all
answered Carpy’s proposition.
To find a small monkey such as
Olga in the Borneo jungle?
Easier the proverbial needle in
the haystack.
“The only bloke who would
be able to find Olga is Oscar
himself,” pronounced Bluey
Corrigan ; and his idea was sound
enough. But if we let him go,
the promise made to Twindle
would have been broken. Oscar
was still not big enough to face
his free brothers. Although his
tail was not cut off, which would
surely have spelt, his doom, the
jungle creatures for a while could
sniff the smell of captivity on
him and make every effort to
destroy this “friend of humans.”
Major Hartley was at least as
upset about Olga’s disappearance
as Oscar’s personal friends in
the rank-and-file. Did he not
hold up the couple’s devotion to
each other as an example of
happy family-life and fidelity?
He came to the postal tent
and looked with true sympathy
at Oscar.
“You must give him a chance
to find his Olga,” he appealed to
the monkey’s guardians. “It is
better for him to perish in the
jungle than to waste himself
away, longing for his lost love.”
TiIAYBE it was the jungfe, our
the crazy desire
to see a beloved face, kiss an
inviting, soft-red lip, no matter
what the sacrifice, that crumbled
determination to keep our
promise to Twindle ... We
unchained Oscar.
Oscar was shocked and sur-
prised by his sudden freedom.
Clearly he didn’t know what to
do with himself. He fingered his
neck, then scratched his skull,
darted curious glances in all
directions, ejaculating an excited
twitter, jumped off the pole, and
a second later disappeared in the
jungle.
According to all rules, Oscar
should have gone for ever ; or,
perhaps, the more romantically-
minded, such as Major Hartley,
imagined he would return with
Olga, showing his gratitude and
happiness to his human friends.
Instead Oscar soon returned,
much to the delight of everyone.
Proud and pleased we were that
he preferred us to Olga and the
jungle.
“You know, he gets more like
a human being,” Major Hartley-
told his fellow-officers.
Oscar must have sensed the
major’s praise, and to prove it
one morning, when the long-
awaited mail arrived, he pinched
a bundle of letters, untied the
string, and delivered them to all
and sundry, just as he saw the
postal-orderlies doing.
Nobody really blamed him for
delivering letters to the wrong
addressees. In fact, we spent
a very interesting morning
detecting and exchanging the
mail. This preoccupation cer-
tainly broke the monotony of our
jungle existence.
Oscar was more popular than
ever, except with Major Hartley,
who, excited and annoyed,
stormed into the postal tent.
“Where’s my mail?” he
demanded. “I’ve been waiting
on a letter from my wife. A
joke is a joke, but this is too
much. Darn that blasted
monkey. Where is h«, anyway?”
“At home, sir,” Bluey
Corrigan replied, pointing at the
pole.
Oscar, hunched on top of his
apartment, was holding a blue
envelope in his right paw. Of
all things he was smelling it,
then sighed and laughed
excitedly. Maybe he knew it was
from a lady fond of perfumes.
“But that’s it,” Major Hartley
called out, tantalised. “A blue
envelope. That’s the one. She
always puts her letters in blue
envelopes. Private Corrigan, get
that ape!”
“Yes, sir.” Bluey Corrigan
rushed to capture Oscar, who,
apparently frightened by his
approach, with an excited chatter
bolted for the cover of the lush-
green vegetation.
“We must get that monkey
Please, boys,” Major Hartley
implored despairingly,
TN a matter of moments at
least a dozen soldiers, throw-
ing all caution overboard, helter-
skelter followed Oscar into the
jungle.
The monkey seemed to think
the hunt a great joke. Time and
again when we lost him, he came
into view, waving the blue
envelope, chattering excitedly,
enticing us to penetrate deeper
his jungle lair.
Sweating and swearing we
followed him.
“It’s quite hopeless, sir,”
Carpy muttered under his
breath. “I reckon it would be
easier to write a letter to your
missus and wait for the answer
than to catch that monk.’*
Major Hartley wiped his
sweating brow, and in the dim
jungle light it was clearly written
on his face how he debated
whether to reprimand Carpy for
his impertinence or to give up
the hopeless chase.
While he was pondering his
eyes were helplessly fixed on
Oscar, who was doing acrobatics
on a tree, hanging by one paw
on a thin branch, holding the
letter in the other paw.
“By jove,” Major Hartley
suddenly exclaimed, pointing
towards Oscar, “Look!”
* As if from nowhere, Olga
appeared at Oscar’s side.
The male, with an energetic
swing, landed on top of the
branch. For a second or so they
stared at each other. Then,
erupting an excited chatter, Olga
grabbed the blue envelope, and
hopped away in the thickest of
the jungle growth. Oscar, with
loud, jubilant yelps, followed her.
We never saw them again.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices;
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
fs
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
( each week
LIGHTING UNIT
10 K.V. A. petrol driven lighting
set. Meadows 15 H.P., water
cooled motor (with I 2 gal. tank)
direct-coupled to 240 volt, 50
cycle alternator, complete with
exciter, battery charger, self
starter, volt-, amp- and fre-
quency - meters. Change - over
switch and voltage controller.
The whole mounted on heavy
steel chassis and ready for im-
mediate use. No concrete floor
iequired. Any trial.
Price £3OO.
Apply “Lighting Set,” Box 40,
P. 0., Hornsby, N.S.W.
Sfiecm&h illoomj
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect. It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it holds its shape until the very end of its
many years of hard service.
The new 1954 range of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will neverfade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will he well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
Crusabe*
PURE WOOL
Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER
TO >FA 0 E OR SHRINK.
'
mm
'/m
£ &
V
\3.
7
mm. v
k
(3
B
tusaoer
C 4.113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Bulletin Reciter.
—5827.
To buy copies of the November and
December, 1949, issues of “The Vaux-
hall Motorist.” —5822.
To buy copies of For Whom The
Bell Tolls and other works by Ernest
Hemingway.—5823.
Whereabouts of descendants of
Elizabeth Suramerhill, daughter of
William George Thomas, who lived
at Windmill-street, Sydney, in 1851. —
5830.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin and meaning of the term
“Run of your Dover” or “Sport your
Dover” as used by old-time bushmen?
The phrase occurs in the following
stanza of an old bush-song;
Come on mate, you’re very late
And supper’s nearly over,
So tie your dog beside the log.
And come and “Sport your Dover.”
—5828.
Information Sought
Some information on the English
general James Edward Oglethorpe ?
Born in 1696, he served under the
Austrian Prince Eugene and dis-
tinguished himself in the 1716-17 cam-
paign against the Turks. In 1722 he
became M.P. for Haslemere (Surrey),
and in 1729, visiting a friend confined
for debt, he was so appalled by the
hideous state of the prison that he
was able to convene a Parliamentary
committee to inquire into debtors’
prisons. His conscientious and
laborious report called attention to,
though it did not end, the worst
horrors of 18th-century prisons. A
liberal Tory, he also worked in the
interests of the small investor. In
1732 he obtained a charter for settling
the colony of Georgia (U.S.A.) as a
refuge for paupers and a barrier for
the British colonies against Spanish
encroachment. His administration of
the colony met with considerable
opposition from the colonists, especi-
ally by his prohibition of rum and
negro slavery, but he did successfully
defend his colony against the
Spaniards. Returning to England in
1743, he took part against the Jacobite
rising of 1745. He was accused of
misconduct, and though acquitted he
was finished as a soldier; he never
returned to Georgia. He was a friend
of Dr. Johnson, Boswell, Goldsmith,
Burke and Walpole. He died in 1785.
* * * *
What is “spark-timing variation’ 1 ’ as
applied to the internal-combustion
engine ?
At full-speed the engine is run-
ning so fast that the crankpin and
the piston have travelled quite an
appreciable distance between the pass-
ing of the spark and the time '
the explosion begins to take full effect.
Consequently the higher the speed
the earlier the spark should occur in
the cylinder. The contact-maker con-
sists of two main parts, the one rotat-
ing with the camshaft, the other
fixed. The fixed part can be made
so that it can be rocked slightly in
order that the fixed and rotating parts
may make contact earlier or later as
required by the speed of the engine;
thus the variable timing is achieved.
♦ * * *
(7) Where in England was the film
“The Titfield Thunderbolt” made?
(2) Is there such a place as Titfield in
England ? (i) Was the railway-line in
the film in actual existence, or was it
specially built for the film? (4) Was
the old-model train used in the latter
part of'the film, after the regular train
had been destroyed, a museum-piece
or was it built for the film ?
(1) The actual location for the film
was just outside Bath. (2) No. (3)
The line used was the seven-mile line
running between Limpley-Stoke and
Camerton, which had been closed for
passenger-traffic for many years. If
runs through the lovely Limpley-Stoke
valley. A derelict village station at
Monkton Combe was used. (4) The
old “Thunderbolt” train was the 114-
year-old “Lion,” borrowed from the
museum of the Liverpool Engineering
Society. The Kelveton and Tollesbury
Light Railway Saloon was borrowed
from a railway-museum near London.
* * * *
(7) Something about the Douglas
Credit scheme of public finance as
practised in Alberta? (2) Was it a
success? (J) Are Dr. Evatt’s recent
financial proposals akin to it?
(1) The Social Credit party, led by
William Aberhart, gained office in
Alberta in 1935. It adopted and
adapted to its special use the Social-
Credit doctrine of popular purchasing-
power as promulgated by Major
Douglas and others. Aberhart undei-
took to pass legislation for forced
conversion of the public debt, can-
cellation, whole or partial, of existing
land-mortgages, issue of provincial
paper-money in the form of legal-
tender certificates, and restriction of
the Press. All these measures under-
went judicial revision and abrogation
by both local and Federal disallow-
ance, and by the decisions of the
Canadian Supreme Court and then of
the Privy Council. (2) The Social
Credit party is still governing Alberta
—it won the general elections (Aug.
5, 1952) with 50 seats, the other
parties winning only nine. But Social
Credit has never actually been put
into practice—the province’s continued
prosperity (which has resulted in the
Social Credit party remaining in
office) is due in most part to its pro-
duction of oil. (Oil-production in 1952
reached a record 58,915,000-odd
barrels, 28 p.c. more than the 1951
production; gross value in 1952
$139,657,915.) (3)Not exactly; though,
as both depend on the printing of
unlimited paper-money, they appear
to resemble the ideas of Douglas
Credit.
Brief Answers
Len: A person under 21 years of
age cannot act as executor, and when
such a person is named as executor
the will has to be proved by someone
else and the estate administered by
that person until the named executor
attains the age of 21....C.C.: Have
no record of the man here at a 11....
8.L.: “The Song of the Flea” was
written by E. N. McCulloch (“O. C.
Cabot”) and appears in The Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations .... R.McD.: Long Range
Weather Forecasting by G. W. Now-
land, obtainable from the author at
95 Barker-street, Casino (N.5.W.)....
E.M.L.: Take i pint treacle, 1 quart
vinegar, \ pint mushroom ketchup,
|oz. cayenne pepper, 1 small lemon
finely sliced, |oz. each of salt, garlic,
bruised cloves and ground ginger.
Mix in a china basin, stir with wooden
spoon, three or four times a day, for
five days; strain twice, then bottle
botnl Hou p e si) 6 “ uSTZfStod
in the Tongan group in the Pacific.
It covers an area of six square miles.
Now uninhabited, it is very fertile
and densely wooded ... .L.M.G.
•
are N.S.W. aboriginal place-names.
Jannali means “moon”; Gymea,
“giant lily,” also “a small bird”;
Lilli Pilli, “myrtle-tree” (Eugenia
smithii); Oronulla, “small pink sea-
shell”; Wattanmlla, “place near run-
nmg water ; Turrella, reeds grow-,
ing in the water” J.K.:The Poetry
Society of Australia is affiliated wUh
the London Poetry Society. The
founder and president is Miss Imogen
Whyse, 217 A George-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Ar . „ „ ntt
Name and address must appear on a
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
° n understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
~,
“Aedo (Medina, W.A.): Please
. ■ name and ful i postal
address... .J.0.C.: Deep down in the
basket the frog is still croaking....
Your Song tl ]® Cane ‘ CLlUer
eains at least a mention.
The m |J ( l .® t are busy turnm in the sugar ‘
The knives flash silver, toppin’ off the
cane;
There’s graft for one and all, and ’neath
their pelt,
Their blood’s a stirrin’ for they’re
cat * m ’ °” ce agam ’ ,
.. . -^F.L.. From high-schoo!
has that eltort strayed.....
J.P.McD.: We don t Tike parodies,
• ••
men.
Oh behold her! Behold her grace!
’sward! P
Gaze on the brigl>t beauty of her face ,
As she pauses at the brink of the ford!
....E.M.F.: Comforted by the
thought that those indigo ranges are
stiff ftanding “ever read? to do § battle
with blizzards”... .G.W.A.: Can still
hear the flutter of their wings:
“Hip, Hip, Hooray!” The pigeons cry
From early morn to close of day .
i watch them as they fly high,
And shout myself: “Hip! Hip!
Hooray!”
J.E.: Every autumn brings its
crop of poems about dead leaves....
P.M.S.: Married to a Dipso
brought tears to our eyes:
Poor, brave Matilda Davey,
All she eats is bread and gravy.
Her man was kicked out of the Navy.
And poor little Tilly is just a slavey.
....G.R.G.: There are Jots of knots
to be untangled from that tackle....
0h - Helen, dear, I do love you.
A. 8.5.: The waratah is deserving
°f a better fate than to be rhymed
1 ' metropolis'And'^SO
cometn to tne metropolis. Ana
it does:
Homeward from the blackened city rides
A myriad sullen typistes expectant
alley-cats haunt the gutter,
Snarlin | over scra y ps of bread and fitter.
N L R • It didn’t helo to brighten
elooinv Jvj 0n d aV mornine C G.:
YoCre in a bad Ly .“a.H^'Much
the same poem comes in at the rate of
, d the only difference
jn each P being y a change y of place-
names.... R.F.T.; By Jove, things
seem to be crook in Tallarook:
The winter wind is moaning,
The rain is pouring down,
My old man is groaning,
And / got a brown
Thrchildren thl mumps.
Cn^es- Isn’t Wea TotehpoTchT
No wonder I’m down in the dumps.
A.J.W.: Sending it back home.
r r • Tt should never have been
to strav from dear old Goon-
d Zdi SF - lt has The
.. ; .o. .. -
acker-nieht,
Tbe sky Ablaze with crimson light.
Let off hungers, send up sky-rockets,
Never mind the money in your pockets.
Light the Roman candles, the sparklers
gay. ... ,
Come ye all. turn every mgnt to day.


‘PHENOVIS* Brand of Phenothlazina
ITS WORTH
WAITING FOR ...
Since the recent release of the new fine
particle Liquid ‘Phenovis/ the unprece-
dented demand for the product caused
a slight delay in fulfilling orders. All
requirements will be met as quickly as
possible. To secure your supplies place
your order now, with your usual supplier
for —
■l iijyp jj \\AJ\I777FM
'£ t>
LIQUID ‘PHENOVIS’
The most efficient drench for the
control of worms in sheep.
a proven product of:
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
' •, V.,i -A 1 - ‘.-t.
Cl
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
■PHE.27X.4928
The "FARMERS 1 BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tlvators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment Ulus-,
trated is the
“ FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
\
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.; Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania; Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagrh St., Sydney.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
df
. .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEKE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO-BAREEBK
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has pioved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today jor FREE LITERATURE
BAKREIIIi DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3q), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
sd
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a hoc
tion o) their cost The
•National' Rotary Duph
cator will reprodeco
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built mntireij t* AusifttlU hr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ageui*~~
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Son* Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.;
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
VJTOSTLY N.S.W. studs at
Sydney, Total number of
entries was disappointing, but
some sections were very strong.
Others, such as the small-graziers’
sections, had a special import-
ance, and in these sections there
was a marked improvement.
Merinos
Anthony Hordern’s Mungadel
stud (Hay, N.S.W.), took the
prize for the greatest number of
individual wins.
The Merrimans, of Yass
(N.S.W.), almost an institution
as a family of sheepbreeders
(Merryville is a company), won
the Stonehaven Cup (group of
three rams and two ewes bred
by exhibitor), and, with one of
the rams, won the medium-wool
championship and grand cham-
pionship. T. Starr and Son’s
Eschol stud (near Gunning,
N.S.W.) narrowly beat Mungadel
for second place to the cup-
winners.
Mungadel took both the ewe
and ram championships in the
strong - wool section. The
mediums, and particularly the
ewes, were very good. F. F.
McClung’s Win b r i stud,
Gunnedah (N.S.W.), won the
grand championship with a ewe
which had beaten an Eschol ewe
in the medium-wool section. In
the fine and superfine section it
was almost all Merryville ; the
stud took several firsts and the
champion fine-wopl ram, exhi-
bited by F. F. McClung, came
originally from Merryville.
Corriedales
M. Carroll and Sons, of Red-
bank stud, Molong (N.S.W.),
exhibited the grand champion
ram. Reserve grand champion
ram was from W. C. Carroll’s
Beulah stud, at Trangie (N.S.W.).
C. E. and H. F. Prell, of Gundo-
wringa stud, Crookwell (N.S.W.),
had the grand champion ewe,
with a Redbank ewe runner-up.
Corriedales very good this year.
Polworths
Grand champion and reserve
grand champion rams were from
H. J. McDonald’s stud at Dubbo
(N.S.W.); the same breeder
exhibited the reserve grand
champion ewe. J. C. Smith, of
Namoi Park, Tamworth
(N.S.W.), took first-place with
an aged ewe.
British Breeds
Of these, there were no
Lincolns. Romney Marsh
entries were fewer than last year,
but the quality was higher. F. C.
Rowlands and Sons, of Werribee,
Waugoola (N.S.W.), just about
scooped the pool with the
Romneys.
Border Leicesters were down,
too. Quality was high, and Vic-
torian breeders G. Starritt and
Son, of Kelso Park, had the
bulk of the major awards.
English Leicesters, no entry.
Southdowns were dominated
by Wagga (N.S.W.) breeders
T. V. Brunskill and Sons.
Champion Dorset Horn rtim was
exhibited by G. R. M. Smith, of
Marylebone, Cudal (N.S.W.);
champion ewe by A. Taylor,
Lindsbury (same district). The
Ryelands were surprisingly
strong this year, Victorian
breeders being well represented.
Shropshires and Cheviots were
unrepresented; Suffolks were
better than might have been
expected, the champion ram —
Mrs. W. R. Johnson’s (Car-
ingbah, N.S.W.) Victoria Remus
—being a particularly fine
animal. Hampshires appeared
for the first time, and only one
team was paraded.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
The Screened Bore
“Ben Acre”: It seems that
silt, the bogy of boring for water
in alluvial formations, has been
overcome by the developed-
screen.
In the past, when water was
struck in a loose formation, the
difficulty was getting sufficient
without drawing sand and silt
into ihe bore, which either
clogged, cutting-off the supply
altogether, or the material caused
excessive wear on the pump and,
consequently, too-frequent over-
hauls.
Various efforts were made to
screen the bores: an obvious
idea was to strain the water from
the sand or silt. But a screen
sufficiently open to allow a
worth-while flow of water
admitted some of the finer silt,
which eventually clogged the
“I don't care if he DID cost a thousand guineas !”
bore. Very often the silt was
so fine it was impossible to strain
the water from it.
The new technique consists of
inserting a screen that will allow
a large proportion of the water-
bearing sand to come through
into the bore. By heavy pump-
ing, Or by surging and bailing,
this sand is removed ; at the same
time a bed of coarse sand is
developed around the screen.
This bed of sand acts as a filter.
The silt is cleared for such a
distance back from the screen
that the movement of the water
through the sand is so slow that
no further silt is disturbed.
This developing of the bore
might take several days of un-
interrupted pumping at a rate
sufficient to float the fine sand
and silt. For this reason a driller
will not necessarily, in silty
country, cease drilling at the first
water, but will continue until a
“sand-blow” is encountered,
when sand and water might blow
as much as 50ft. up the bore. He
is then assured of a water-
pressure *that will enable him to
develop the screen.
To obtain the maximum yield
of water it is necessary to sink
the bore and explore the water-
bearing strata before obtaining
the screen. Samples of sand
should be taken, and a screen
chosen that wilLhold back only
the coarser sand or gravel.
Screens can be obtained, either
slotted or wire-mesh, with an
almost unlimited range of open-
ings, and in lengths to suit the
depth of water-bearing strata or
the flow of water required.
Meat for Britain
“In the ACT”: Meat- and
bacon-rationing in the U.K. will
end at midnight on July 3, and
the Ministry of Food will cease
to be responsible for distribution
and for price-control. Most
imported-meat shipments will
belong to the Ministry until
about the end of the year, but
bulk purchases from Australia
of mutton and lamb and their
offals will cease on June 30, and
of beef, veal, pork and their
offals on September 30. After
those dates, private-production
for export can begin.
Under the 15-year agreement
(1952-57) Australian beef, veal,
mutton and lamb can be sold on
the U.K. market without restric-
tion of quantity for the rest of
the term. There is a minimum-
price agreement under which the
U.K. will make a deficiency-
payment to the Australian Gov-
ernment if the average prices
realised in the U.K. in the year
beginning on October 1 next fall
short of the agreed minimum-
price schedule. Australia has
agreed to restrict the quantities
of meat which may be shipped
to other than the U.K. and other
British markets.
Pangola-grass
“Namby”: A little while ago
the president of the Primary
Producers’ Union, returning
from a world-tour, announced
that American scientists had
evolved two new grasses which
might be of great value in Aus-
tralia. One of these was stated
to be pambola-grass, which was
called a seedless type of pas-
palum.
The only grass approximating
name grown in America is
pangola-grass. pits is not a
species of paspalum, but is a
perennial of the same genus as
out , a “.“ al . summer grass-weed
pC p f^ol^is'an African mass
Pangola is an At ic g ,
nal S ed .w£ the P “ g °’ a
g Vv'ars ac ross?
,° yeal ? ag0 ’ “? p0 c SSI ,
bll j« es ha y. e b „ ee “ J ec °fZf
only recentl y m that country,
where several thousand acres
~.,. ~ . .
f ave e ? * • F 1 • ,
few y ears > chlefl y m Florida,
This grass produces seed-
heads in g abund P anC e, but very
little viable seed- It has no
unde rground stems, but spreads
ver y rapidly by surface-runners,
and j s established in this way,
p ang ola-grass is considered


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
4
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Given you the advantages of sewerage M
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ft
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instai it!
Xbe treated sterile sewerage !•
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
“DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney-
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty, Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia D;s-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P- Hc-
Inerney & Co„ Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
° v » Liu., ja. Ii .
■%.
RENEWED
ENGINES!
r JQ.
0
Cl
o
FOR INTERNATIONAL
truck models
- KS-5, KB ■" KBS-5
ENGINE EXCHANGE SERVICE
for NEW Performance..
e*
The International Harvester Engine Exchange Service
offers you a completely renewed engine for your truck.
New pistons and sleeves bring the engine performance
to Factory standard. Each engine is bench tested and
guaranteed. Exchange your old engine, in running order,
for NEW PERFORMANCE with a renewed engine.
See your local International Harvester Dealer or the
Motor Truck Branch in your capital city.
Ask them the fixed price.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works : Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
TRUCKS
■ ••• PMT4&6-36
best adapted to fertile and moist,
well-drained soils in warm,
humid regions. It may there-
fore succeed in our warm coastal
areas.
It produces nutritious herbage
under grazing, but does not
seem to be able to stand heavy
grazing.
Crosscuts
“Kelms”: A Westralian
farmer who used 1300 tons of
super, this season thinks it’s a
record. Anyway, it’s a respect-
able amount, and more-or-less
illustrates “Petofi’s” remarks (B
9/6/’54) about increased demand
for the stuff. Mostly his is light
land, considered practically
valueless not long ago. Super,
went in with 9000 acres of lupins
and oats ; another 100,000 acres
were topdressed (half a bag to
the acre); rest for barley—6ooo
acres and wheat. Owner
reckons he’ll be able to improve
the land to a standard at which
it will carry another 5000 sheep.
He uses a trace-element, too.
A. Thompson (N.S.W.): I’m
told it pays to put all your eggs
in one basket with super,
for pasture (five-year’s supply
banged-on in one year, for
instance, rather than the same
amount spread over five years);
that dairyfarmers have tried it on
the coast, and experts recom-
mend it. I can follow the theory
—a matter of availability—and
it seems reasonable. Trouble is,
theories are apt to leak, and
before having a go myself (fat-
lambs, mostly; a few vealers)
I’d like to hear from someone
who had tried it over, say, 10
years. That seems a fair test, as
there could be an early boosting
of growth by the amount used,
then a petering-out. Does anyone
come in that category?
* * *
“Clunesman”: Cooma
(N.S.W.) district agronomist
Douglas, in his May report,
quoted old Monaro hands on the
good portents of a freshening of
flow in springs. Two days later
it rained. There’s been a mild
pilgrimage from these parts «o
Badgery Creek (Sydney Uni-
versity farm), to see its “water-
harvesting” scheme. The
Monaro is ideal country for the
Geddes technique, and already
a fair amount of preliminary
work has been done on some
properties; others have gone
further. One example is enough ;
11 sheep and two tons of pasture-
hay to the acre, from land receiv-
ing a total of five inches of
supplementary water in 12
months.
“Canberra”: J. A. Aird, a
member of the Victorian State
Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission, has been looking into
N.T. water problems, mostly
around Alice Springs. Much
bore-water, he reports, is unsuit-
able for irrigation (that’s nothing
new), but some of it is suitable.
He recommends establishment of
an N.T. water-development
branch.
H. Harrison, dairy-officer for
the Clarence-Bellingen region
(North Coast, N.S.W.), said that
paspalum had been “virtually
wiped-out” on many farms;
pastures wouldn’t recover (after
the floods) until well into spring
(Grafton “Daily Examiner” re-
port).
» « *
T. C. Creyke (agricultural
adviser to the U.K. High Com-
missioner), in Sydney, and H. J.
Baker (of the Australian Meat
Board in London), at Rock-
hampton (Q.), quoted slightly
different figures for British pre-
war and present consumption of
meat per head, but their calcu-
lation of Britain’s demand for
meat after derationing (July 3)
was the same —2,300,000 tons.
Both emphasised the necessity
for quality beef; Baker added
the necessity of “educating” the
British public to buy Australian
beef.
♦ ♦ ♦
Discussion, led by some of the
State’s top research men, will be
a feature of the four-day school
for dairyfarmers at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture re-
ports). School starts June 22;
open to anyone actively engaged
in dairyfarming. Fee, £2 18s.,
which includes food, bed and
conversation. Beginning June
25, at the same address, a school
for pig-raisers, same period,
same price.
♦ ♦ *
If you’re a New South Welsh-
man and are thinking of raising
a Christmas - cheque with
turkeys, and are unpractised in
the art, the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture will let you have
a 27-page booklet, free, on
application to their Division of
Information and Extension Ser-
vices, Box 36, G.P.0., Sydney.
June and July are good months
to start brooding-operations.
The department’s supply of tech-
nical literature is really very
good; in itself a first-class piece
of organisation. But they can,t
cope with enquiries from other
States.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
There is some chance of rain about the 'of the
month if the Uranian cycle was strong in the late rains, but
this is not certain. Otherwise, June and July fails are quite
light, and the next rain likely (except in the southern areas)
is late in July or early in August. In the southern areas the
rains off the Antarctic should be in. fairly regular succession
right through the season.
Farm Hints
“John”: Having chewed the
pivot off several pairs of multi-
grips, and having little success
with home-made replacements, I
tried another dodge. Got a
quantity of burned bones (burned
leather would have done as well)
and packed it into an L-pipe
coupling, plugged at one end.
The bolt was placed in this and
well rammed. Another plug was
screwed into the top. Then I
threw it into the heart of a burn-
ing stump. A day later, raked
out of the ashes and opened-up,
it proved to be an efficient job of
case-hardening. If bones or
leather are not available, charcoal
which has been impregnated
with urine and allowed to dry is
just as good. New multigrip bolts
should be treated this way before
use ; nine times out of 10 they
are not made of hardened steel.
“E.H.M.”: To discourage
cut-worms try one dessertspoon
methyl in half-a-gallon water;
dip seedlings in solution before
planting.
“Sundowner”: Four essentials
in foot-rot eradication are: Re-
move cases from the flock ; put
clean sheep in paddocks which
have been free of stock for at
least a week; treat affected
sheep until cured, or cull them
from the flock ; isolate and treat
introduced sheep until they are
free from rot. For rot-affected
sheep use a bath made of
bluestone 31b. to Igal. water, or
formalin lOgals. to lOOgals.
water. For routine prevention
break the mixture down to lib.
bluestone to Igal. water, or
2gals. formalin to lOOgals. water.
“Big Billy”; To keep insects
away from grain stored for
stock only, treat with a benzene-
hexachloride dust. Mix small
parcels of the grain with the dust
at 2oz. of 0.5 per cent, gamma-
isomer per bushel. For larger
quantities, rake the dust into the
surface of the bulk grain at ilb.
of 0.5 per cent, gamma-isomer
per 100 sq. ft.
“Ann”: Should the leg of a
valuable fowl be broken, remove
any feathers over the fracture
with as little movement as pos-
sible. Set the bones and bind
with a thin layer of gauze. Then
support the leg with three
narrow splints, taking cate to
avoid chafing or injury to the
skin. Bind with a bandage
saturated with liquid glue : this
will harden and hold the parts
firmly in position. Dressing can
usually be removed in 14 days.
Keep the fowl in a coop for a
few days before giving freedom.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Goldmining
I take it that “Queue d’Argent”
(B. 26 /5 1 ’54) regards the Commonwealth
as a profit-making concern, part of whose
profits should be put back into the vari-
ous industries which help make Australia
tick.
That’s fair enough, except that the
expected return from an industry should
be commensurate with what’s put into it.
Half the trouble with this country is the
tendency of certain people with far too
much say to grab the profits of a paying
industry in order to bolster-up one they
think ought to pay.
That goldmining doesn’t pay isn’t un-
accountable: the fact is that, with gold
at $35 an ounce, the goldmining industry
is producing a commodity which, broadly
speaking, is failing to pay for itself. It
wouldn’t matter how much money or
indirect help the Governments could
afford to pour into the industry; in the
long run it would still cost too much to
win the gold.
The alleged inefficiency of outmoded
machinery is only a small part of the
reason for the decline. The present gold-
price was fixed by Roosevelt 20 years
ago ! What’s happened to all other’ prices
in that time?
The only remedy for the declining gold-
fields is a rise in the value of the product,
and before railing against Federal Gov-
ernments for their “half-hearted efforts
to have the fixed price altered” there are
two things to consider, from a national,
rather than from a State, point of view.
The first is Australia’s position among
the world’s gold-producers (fifth, with
about 2 per cent.); the second is the
position of gold as a national wealth-
earner—it earned £l7 million out of
about £lOOO million last year, employing
about 10,000. Small potatoes; and Gov-
ernmental “apathy” becomes understand-
able with so many bigger and more pro-
fitable things cooking.
There might, as “Q” claims, be “in
various districts known and partly-
proved lines of reefs with potentials not
far short of the present-day Kalgoorlie
reefs.” That’s a generalisation it would
be hard to dispute, but it’s an extrava-
gant implication that, starting from
scratch, these could be successfully
worked today at $35 an ounce.
The prospector who needed “good all-
weather roads," and “realistic help in
the matter of water-supply” to attract
him to the potential ’fields would hardly
hold his place with blokes like Arthur
Bayley. He wouldn’t find any gold,
anyway, and would be better employed
in a Perth assay-office.
When the investors and the capital
flowed into Kalgoorlie in the first place
there were no roads and no water-supply,
but there was lashins of gold, easily got
(i.e., production-costs were low), and to
top that, its price was relatively high.
When the price of gold reaches $lOO
an ounce, as it conceivably might in a few
years, then will be the time to hop in
with some of “Q.’s” ideas—and a few
more.—Edx (Vic.).
Grammar
There’s nothing wrong with grammar
(B, 26/5/’54) except that many teachers
live in the past.
At the time of the Renaissance, Euro-
peans knew less about many subjects
than the ancient Greeks and Romans
had known. This made study of the dead-
languages profitable, and the great test
of a scholar was his “grammar” (know-
ledge of ancient tongues), A legend grew
that everything classical was superior to
anything modem—including Latin
methods of sentence-building, which are
actually inferior to English.
Roman, to say “Brutus stabbed
Caesar” was the same as saying “Caesar
stabbed Brutus,” unless Caesar’s name
was spelled differently to show he was
on the receiving-end. The order of the
words had no practical significance.
Sense depended on declension, and to
speak without declining was to talk
gibberish.
In modem English we avoid declension
by using a highly-developed syntax. A
limited declension of the personal pro-
nouns is a quaint survival. This is hard
to teach to children because it is useless.
“You are as good as me” is not gib-
berish ; it makes its meaning clear, which
is what language is for. But because it
is not what Teacher was taught by his
teacher, the child who uses it gets low
marks.
The English language is efficient and
expressive because it is alive and chang-
ing and quickly sheds its encumbrances,
in spite of the efforts of its professed
- friends, the teachers. — Robert Howie
(W.A.).
Lake Eyre
The idea of flooding the basin of Lake
Eyre with saltwater is being touted again,
but it has no base in commonsense.
In its heyday Lake Eyre measured
approximately 80 miles by 150 and had
an area of 12,000 square miles. In 1932
the late C. T. Madigan, Adelaide geolo-
gist, calculated an evaporation-rate of
l£in. daily. Over the area quoted that
means 260,000,000,000 gallons every 24
hours. To replace that huge loss, and
keep the lake in working-order would
require a canal of water 200 ft. wide and
80ft. deep, flowing ceaselessly at two
miles an hour along a man-made river
from the head of Spencer Gulf —246
miles away.
In 1914 the cost of such an undertaking
was estimated at £700,000,000. What
would it cost today?
The rivers which once fed Lake Eyre
leached from the country through which
they flowed and carried to the lake
3,000,000,000 tons of salt (Madigan’s
conservative estimate). It’s still there!
Now consider the rate at which heavily-
impregnated ocean-water would deposit
salt. In a comparatively brief space
there would be no room for water. —
A. B.C. (N.S.W.).
Car-parks and Parking-meters
Melbourne City Council has* decided
to instal parking-meters—they’ll pro-
bably be ready later in the year.
Parking-meters have been used in U.S.
cities for many years and they undoubt-
edly make for a fairly quick “turnover”
of cars, as well as bringing in a tidy
income. On the other hand, they’re an
extra charge on the motorist without
any real service given in return.
Parking-meters, useful as they are, are
not the real solution to the parking
troubles besetting all Australian capital
cities. As the secretary of the N.R.M.A,
(H. Richards) said lately, meters allow
anyone with money to use vacant kerb-
sides whether or not his business is
urgent, and they don’t make one extra
inch of parking-space.
The provision of more and more car-
parks seems the best practical solution.
In Sydney, I believe, the City Council
has such a scheme going—building
“pigeonhole” and “open-deck” parking-
stations. Underground parking-stations
are the best solution of all, but the cost
is almost prohibitive.
Every big city in the U.S.A. has a
parking-problem to overcome —U.S.
cities are “being strangled by their
vehicular traffic,” according to engineers
investigating the position. Large under-
ground-garages and decentralisation are
the suggested solutions.
In San Francisco an underground-gar-
age taking 1800 cars has recently been
built beneath a public park, and a couple
more are under construction. As for de-
centralising, a big ’Frisco department-
store built a suburban branch with free
parking-space for 8000 cars attached.
Within a year the suburban store was
doing more business than the one in the
city,— Keith McMillan (Vic.).
Stamp-designs
It is comforting to find that someone
sees merit in the special stamps issued
by the P.M.G. (B, 26/s*/’54), but there
are other viewpoints than the artistic and
the philatelist’s. Many thousands of
stamps have to be stuck on letters every
day by mailing-clerks, office-boys, girls
and others, and I speak for them when
I say that we are all in a panic at the
thought that we’ll never get back to our
good old lin.-by-|in. stamp —so easy
to manipulate, so neat and compact in
appearance.
Postage-stamps are a good medium for
commemorative ideas, but why seize on
every opportunity to produce a slab of
paper so big and unwieldy that it’s just
murder having to stick them on in great
numbers. A good design gains little from
size, and it’s time the designers realised
that' the first purpose of a stamp is to
defray postage on letters. —G. A. B,
(N.S.W.).
Flats
One cause of the high cost of domes-
tic accommodation in Australia is the
intense prejudice against flats, which
does not exist in Europe.
The most expensive things about a
house are the foundations and the roof;
hence a two-story building is cheaper
than a one-story, a three-story is cheaper
still, and both are cooler. /
People spend almost as much time at
business as they do in their homes, but
there is no prejudice against multi-storied
business-buildings. ' Imagine a modern
city where every office-building had to
be one-storied. —B. (Vic.).
Road and Sea in W.A.
The announcement that a train of 18
road vehicles has taken a T-32 drilling-
rig and other equipment from Fremantle
to Rough Range, Exmouth Gulf, throws
an interesting sidelight on transport con-
ditions in W.A.
The journey of about 900 miles must
be the biggest road-haulage job in the
State’s history.
The provision of a police escort for the
first 350 miles suggests that road condi-
tions are still as difficult as they were a
couple of years ago, when Nash, Howe
and Cooper got through with loads of
mudsills and other timber.
Obviously, however, transport by road
must be preferable to that by sea from
Fremantle to Exmouth Gulf, followed by
lighter-loading and off-loading with a
mile-and-a-half tow in between to the
landing-point and a further road-haulage
of twenty miles or more to site. —A. L.
(N.S.W:).
Labor’s Weakness
Since the election Labor’s apologists
have put forward every possible reason
for defeat without touching on the most
important of all—the Socialist plank in
its official Federal platform.
This pernicious doctrine was written
into the A.L.P.’s platform in* 1921 on the
motion of Jock Garden, then lately
returned from Moscow. Garden has
gone from the ranks of Labor, but
Socialism remains as the keystone of
A.L.P. policy, and the party stands or
falls by it at election-times, despite half-
hearted attempts to deny its existence.
That was seized on by the Sane
Democracy League during the recent
election, when they compared the A.L.P.
platform with the Fourth Article of the
U.S.S.R. Constitution, and were able
to show that there was no difference
between the fundamental aims of an
allegedly democratic political party and
the greatest police-State in history.
It should now be clear to those who
direct Labor’s policy that the Australian
people don’t want Socialism, even if it is
accompanied by abolition of the means
test, cheap money for housing and other
gifts.
The A.L.P.’s best chance of regaining
the Federal Treasury benches lies in an
honest overhaul of its platform. The
idea that the Australian Labor movement
would be impotent without Socialism as
its objective is so futile that only its
Left-wing instigators could defend it.
It is an empty claim for Labor’s apolo-
gists to point to the States where their
party governs. The only important Gov-
ernment in Australia today is the Com-
monwealth Governmenit, and electors
will not trust it to a party whose policy
is on all-fours with that of the Russian
Bolsheviks of 1917.
There are three years during which
the necessary reformation can take place.
--Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Hals or Picasso ?
Melbourne National Gallery trustees
have been divided over the purchase of
a Franz Hals for £20,000 and a Picasso
for £6OOO. The gallery hasn’t an example
of either, but if I were a trustee I would
go for the Hals.
The work of the Dutch painter (he
owned a pub and did a lot of drinking
but lived to 80 and painted some excel-
lent pictures) has been proved, and his
niche in art, a relatively high one, has
been established.
Picasso hasn’t been proved at all yet
(though most modernists would indig-
nantly deny this). The fact that he is an
enormous fashion, that he is being copied
ail over the world by tens of thousands
of artists, that there are Picasso institutes,
Picasso professors, Picasso galleries and
scores of books about him, proves noth-
ing. Dozens of artists have been in the
fashion much longer than Picasso and
are now forgotten—Landseer, for in-
stance.
That, of course, doesn’t disprove
Picasso’s greatness, either —great artists
can also become a fashion. But it does
suggest some uncertainty about it. —
M. G. S. (Vic.).
Migrants and Housing
Agreed that “camps and hostels are
poor places in which to bring-up
migrants” (B. 2/6/’54), but they’re also
poor places in which to raise native-born
Australians. And, until the housing
problem is mastered, migrants must, like
the rest of us, consider themselves for-
tunate to have any sort of roof over their
heads.
Admitted also that camps and hostels
constitute the main cause of unrest
among migrants, but plainly the only
practical way to alleviate this distress
would be to cut migration to the bone
until a surplus of houses in industrial
areas becomes available. —P.O.M.C.
(N.S.W.j.
H.M.A.S. Australia
Those well-intentioned folk campaign-
ing for the retention, in toto, of cruiser
Australia as a memorial, have forgotten,
if they knew, the menace of the greatest
enemy to their plans —rust.
When she was in commission Australia
carried more than 600 men. A large pro-
portion of these were seamen, and most
of them were unremittingly employed
with chipping-hammers, scrapers, wire-
scrubbers, red-lead, boiled-oil and silver-
ene, from her 630 ft. waterline to her three
big funnels, and the acreage of fertile
ground in between.
It would be better to mount her fore-
mast, 150 ft. of Douglas-fir, on a promin-
ent headland; or, in a museum, one of
her uncannily accurate auto-barrage-
units, the Mandrakian radar affairs with
which she beat-off most of her zombie
attackers up north.
The one for 25 years hoisted signals
not much changed since Nelson; the
other, when she was using it, was the
last word in radar control of gunnery.—’
Macnell (N.S.W.).


WHITE COOLIES
by Betty Jeffrey —this outstanding
best-seller, now in its fourth printing,
is the first full account of the experi-
ences of an Australian Army nursing
sister in Japanese captivity. Written
mostly in prison camps and under
constant threat of discovery, it is a
forceful and vivid story, illuminated
by the unquenchable spirit of the
prisoners. Illustrated by Kickhefer.
17/6 (post 7d.).
THE OUTSIDER
by Richard Wright —his latest
novel since Native Son, and another
book with an impact. It traces the
life of a young Negro through his
desperate, almost helpless encounters
with some of the darkest forces in
society, revealing a vivid portrait of
contemporary American living. It’s a
finely written book, and an exciting
story.
17/6 (post 7d.).
I Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other books you need — you’ll find them all at •• •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.I.
Available at All Booksellers
REACH FOR THE SKY
THE STORY OF DOUGLAS BADER
by
PAUL BRICKHILL
21s. Od.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
While History Passed
Jessie Elizabeth Simons
The stirring story of the years spent as Prisoners of the
Japanese by gallant Australian nurses
At all booksellers - - - - 15/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
to six parts) and the children of
Laugharne School, Carmarthenshire.
Although it is in prose, it might be
called a dramatic poem of the libido of
a Welsh seaside town from midnight to
midnight; it begins at midnight with a
series of voices describing the town and
its people and sliding into their dreams:
Captain Cat meeting drowned shipmates ;
dressmaker Myfanwy Price and draper
Mog Edwards in different parts of the
town coming together in dreamland to
make the declaration they have not the
courage to make in the day; Widow
Ogmore-Pritchard putting her two dead
husbands through their ritual:
Mrs. Pritchard : Soon it will be time to
get up.
Tell me your tasks, in order.
Mr. Ogmore; I must put my pyjamas in
the drawer marked pyjamas.
Mr. Pritchard: I must take my cold bath
which is good for me.
This invention is very good when, later
in the play, Mrs. 0.-P. dreams in the
dusk: the Voice explains:
At once, at twice, Mr. Ogmore and Mr.
Pritchard, who all dead day long have been
gossiping like ghosts in the woodshed, plan-
ning the loveless destruction of their glass
widow, reluctantly sigh and sidle into her
clean house.
Mr. Pritchard: You first, Mr. Ogmore.
Mr. Ogmore: After you, Mr. Pritchard.
Mr. Pritchard: No, no, Mr. Ogmore. You
widowed her, first.
There are Polly Garter, the town bike,
and Organ Morgan who is in a constant
reverie about music; Mr, and Mrs.
Cherry Owen, she being a rare wife who
rejoices in her husband’s antics when he
comes home drunk ; Willy Nilly, the post-
man, steaming open love-letters, and old
Mary Ann Sailors, who runs the pub ;
and behind it all Milk Wood, “whose
every tree-foot’s cloven in the black glad
sight of the hunters of lovers.”
In this highly-figured prose, Thomas is
as sexual as in the first book of poetry,
sponsored by a London newspaper, with
which he first puzzled the world (about
1934); but he has become so clear as to
leave behind the feeling of secret-cipher-
writing that lingers about a possible
ancestor in Finnegan’s Wake. In the
several songs he shows he can write regu-
lar and clear verse when he likes: for
instance, in Mr. Waldo’s song:
In Pembroke City when I was young
I lived by the Castle Keep
Sixpence a week was my wages
For working for the chimbley sweep....
or in Polly Garter’s song;
I loved a man whose name was Tom
He was strong as a bear and two yards long
I loved a man whose name was Dick
He was big as a barrel and three feet thick
And I loved a man whose name was Harry
Six feet tali and sweet as a cherry .
But the one I loved best awake or asleep
Was little Willy Wee and he’s six feet
deep....
and in the nursery rhyme that Captain
Cat mutters to the beat of the children’s
singing outside :
Johnny Crack and Flossie Snail
Kept their baby in a milking pail....
In all, it is a comfortable, green little
play, full of the lush life and fantasy
the modern Welsh school rejoices in, and
especially of the Welsh school’s indomit-
able love-making: a small and impos-
sibly-cheerful island in a bitter world
and what more could you say about
Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro”?
Complete with the tunes of the seven
songs, composed by Daniel Jones; and
printed in the lovely Gill type which
emphasises the simplicity and cleanness
of anything set in it.
Katherine Mansfield
Completed just thirty years after
Katherine Mansfield’s death, Katherine
Mansfield (Cape) is the product of a
young New Zealander, Anthony Alpers,
who felt a special sense of “mission” in
its writing. He acknowledges many debts ;
one, especially, to the New Zealand
Government Literary Fund, which
enabled him to devote some years to
research (both in his own country and
abroad) and to assembling and setting-
down his facts. .
He has made a most thorough, fair
and craftsmanlike job of it; the book is
well-written and -documented, with a full
index and excellent bibliography. It con-
tains a number of most- interesting illus-
trations—altogether an invaluable guide
to readers of Katherine Mansfield’s work,
—whether her Stories, Letters or Journal.
Alpers has not been blinded by heroine-
worship—he is making a just attempt to
explain the motives and actions of many
of the main actors in her life-story. No
one could be fairer than he to her father,
Sir Harold Beauchamp, and his explana-
tions in a final chapter of that gentleman’s
financial dealings with his wayward
daughter—read along with some of her
quoted later letters to him and some of
her late journal entries —should clear
many misconceptions concerning their
relationship. The whole situation as
between Katherine and her own family is,
of course, common in varying degrees to
many artists —writers, especially, and
feminine writers most particularly. The
Beauchamps were properly proud of
Katherine’s literary success, but not so
pleased at her choice of material or of
the implications it held as to the course
of her private life ; not that the uncom-
promising Katherine made much effort
at concealment or deception.
Middleton Murry (her second husband
and literary executor) and “L.M.” (Ida
Baker; her school-friend and lifetime
servitor and companion) are shown in a
different light from that often shed on
them in Katherine Mansfield’s own writ-
ings. Both these people were interviewed
by and assisted the author, and “L.M.”
in particular seems to have approved
what he had to say about her. Loving
Katherine, “L.M.” put up with various
humiliations on that account and because
she seems to have understood instinctively
how Katherine’s physical condition—she
was plagued with extremely painful
rheumatism as well as with T.B. and
nervous exhaustion —reacted upon her
personality. Murry is shown as a some-
what supine character, except in regard
to his own work, and, if this exasperated
Katherine at times, she frequently under-
stood it quite honestly.
There are many other things which
this book makes more clear: the Murry -
Mansfield dealings with the D. H.
Lawrences; their literary connections
with various magazines and editors; the
ramifications of Katherine’s illnesses and
treatments. But, it must be admitted, to
this reader Katherine Mansfield herself
remains a rather shadowy figure.
Photographs quite obviously did not
trap her charm of expression or true
appearance, for one of the things which
people commented upon was her physical
attraction: they noticed and admired her
clothes ; but, even allowing for the ugli-
ness of fashion during the time when she
was most photographed, it cannot be said
that any one of these illustrations shows
a woman in any way seductive —she
usually looks alert and intelligent and
that is all.
Alpers makes use of many letters and
family documents not published pre-
viously, and among this material, as well
as in some already familiar to readers of
the Letters and Journal, are many very
illuminating glimpses: Katherine, feeling
happy and longing to “have a little fete,”
visits the post-office and puts “new relief
nibs m all the awful old crusty pens.”
A startling new view of D. H. Lawrence
during his unhappy time in Cornwall,
from a letter not published before:
I want to talk about the L’s He has
become very fond of sewing, especially
hemming, and of making little copies of
pictures. When he is doing these things he
is quiet and gentle and kind, but once you
start talking, I cannot describe the frenzy
that comes over him.... It is impossible to
be anything to him but a kind of playful
acquaintance.
There is the housewifely Katherine with
her instruction of Murry during the
time when he lived in her flat as boarder,
not as lover. On the first morning he
found bread, butter and honey on the
kitchen table and “a large brown egg in
an egg-cup, with a label wedged in: ‘This
is your egg. You must boil it. K.M.’ ”
Book-production
The Australian Book-Publishers’ Asso-
ciation books-of-the-year committee has
presented its choice of 13 books from
61 submitted as 1953-54 books-of-the-
year : a neat pamphlet, with photographs
of the title-pages or wrappers or sample
pages of successful entries, notes on those
responsible for typography, design, etc.,
and on the advantages and disadvantages
of each book ; the report of the judges
(Hal Missingham, of Sydney Art Gallery ;
J. Burke, Professor of Fine Arts at Mel-
bourne University ; W. G. Anderson, of
the Melbourne printing firm of Brown,
Prior and Anderson, and L. F. R.
Apthorp, of Sydney’s Halstead Press),
with a foreword by Professor Burke.
The books are: Australia Writes (F. W-
Cheshire, Halstead Press) ; Clinical Investi-
gations, by E. H. Stokes (Angus and Robert-
son, Halstead); Early Melbourne Architec-
ture (0.U.P., Halstead); Francis Greenway,
by M. H. Ellis. (Angus and Robertson,
Halstead); Foundations of the Australian
Monetary System, by S. J. Butlin (Mel-
bourne University Press); Fijian Way of
Life, by G. K. Roth (0.U.P., Halstead);
The Gateway, by Judith Wright (Angus and
Robertson, Halstead); The Mortal Sin of
Father Grossard, by Eric Baume (Angus and
Robertson, Halstead); Poems, by W. S.
Fairbridge (Angus and Robertson, Hal-
stead); The Rocking Donkey, by Mary
Douglas and E. W. Cole (Wilke and Co.);
Tasmanian Pastoral, by Kathleen Graves
(Melbourne University Press); Tumult of
the Swans, by Roland Robinson (Edwards
and Shaw); Western Australia, by Frank
Hurley (Angus and Robertson, Halstead).
In explaining their rejection of almost
four-fifths of the entries, the judges men-
tion that “one of the most original and
attractive” was marred by coarse and
cheap stapling ! Another, with “delight-
ful pastel illustrations,” had an “almost
illegible letterpress.” And Professor
Burke mentions an entry with the frontis-
piece upside-down ; another with “a page
tipped-in halfway through the book” and
many with “poorly-fitting jackets.”
The Professor considers that the selec-
tion sent to England this year is better
than last year’s ; and very properly opines
that “there is much more to be said for
sending a few books of very high quality
than a larger selection which must inevit-
ably include inferior examples, and thus
prejudice the success of the whole
scheme.”
The judgment, it is stated, has no refer-
ence to literary qualities.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 282
Across
I—Mother1 —Mother surrounds the middleman
color. (7)
s—Rotten tomato to the north Turk
furniture. (7)
9 “Blue” crook. (3-6)
10— Bowler’s approach an airborne
score. (3-2)
11 — Rain in the country. (4)
12— What isn’t left to the roller order
for marching with the higher
welt? (5-5)
15— Each food in the ace with a
musical work. (6)
16 — Bone a North Dakota and Rhode
Island orchestra sash. (6)
19— Kind of acid if French removing
urci from a famous coloratura
soprano. (6)
20— Shows off an old aircraft in a
steamer. (6)
22—Such killing is perhaps more
merciful than separation of un-
roped Europe and Asia. (10)
24—810 w the business overhead! (4)
27 Three articles of fruit. (5)
28 — Obstinate snorter overtaken. (3-6)
29 Non-nudist sideboard. (7)
30— The Yale disturbances in the
pink. (7)
Down
1— Pacific personality and 1 wander
U P- (5) . „ .
2 Horse-laughing drivel is Hying.
(9) . .
3 Approbation is missing the
corner. (4)
4 A century-maker is a beautiful
fellow. (6)
5 Whose is the centre court? (3)
6 Footballers have their fling who
display some ancestral character-
istic returns from the field. (103
7 Names break up this divine home.
(5)
8— France was ruled by two and
forty winks behold irregular
ages. (9)
13— Call out a greeting with some
precipitation. (4)
14— Scamps call a funny fellow in the
steamer. (10)
15— The previously mentioned golt-
course warning is uttered. (9)
17— Spots the telegraphic “S” girls.
(3,3,3)
18— Way of setting sail to a Baltic
port. (4)
21 —Pig has hidden the mount from
which Moses looked across
Jordan. (6)
23 —One among the lesser nobility.
(5)
25 — Hibernian rice. (5)
26 The woman’s a queen of heaven.
(4)
28—Strike up a good round. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 281


APM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broad ford ( Vic .),
Botany { N.S.W .).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which hove
been planted out.
By tvise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas .
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
2X> years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is at
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war,
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SVi MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and poper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Mary vale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Pcper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
• Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
