

THE HOUSE
ẁ
*1
SEPPELT
ẃ
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
ẅ
The Bulletin
Beginning: “THREE YEARS WITH MENZIES”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75— No. 3867
Wednesday, March 24, 1954
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
KENWOOD HOUSE, HOME OF NOTABLE IVEAGH BEQUEST
ON the edge of Hampstead Heath in north-west London is Kenwood House,
an eighteenth-century mansion standing in its own extensive parkland.
The House with its famous collection of pictures and furniture was left
to the nation by the first Earl of Iveagh at his death. Kenwood is administered
by the London County Council and since it was re-opened to the public in
May, 1950, many thousands of people have visited the house to view its many
famous works of art.
The original house at Kenwood was built in 1616 and, during the late
seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, the house passed through the hands
of many owners including Lord Berkeley, the Duke of Argyll and the Earl
of Bute, who sold it in 1754 to the first Earl of Mansfield. Thirteen years later
Robert Adam was commissioned by the Earl of Mansfield to make extensive
improvements to the house and it is the result of his work that Kenwood
is visited and admired to-day.
The Library is regarded as one of Adam’s greatest achievements. It is
a room of noble proportions with its two screens of fluted Corinthian columns
and the semicircular ceiling is decorated with panels of ovals and rectangles,
framing either mythological paintings by Zucchi or delicate arabesques. The
color scheme consists of the warm, mellow hues of old gold, fawns and pinks
which are suggested by the leather binding of books.
To unify the additions which he made with the older parts of the
building, Adam designed a new facade for the south front and wings were
built on either side of the portico. The design of the ceiling in the front
hall is another example of Adam’s work and in many of the superb rooms
can be seen the famous Adam fireplaces. The design of furniture was also
entrusted to Adam but much of this has been dispersed.
Kenwood was bought by the Ist Lord Iveagh in 1925 and before his
death in 1929 he had filled the house with a magnificent collection of pictures,
including works by Reynolds, Romney and Gainsborough which are hung m
the West Galleries. Rembrandt, Frans Hals, Raeburn, Landseer, Van Dyck,
are all represented and there, also, can be seen a-Vermeer of supreme quality
—“The Guitar Player.”


The Red Page
PRELUDE TO EVEREST
It always seems surprising, and per-
haps a proof of the superior energy and
daring of the white man, that the native
inhabitants of Tibet and Nepal never
bothered to climb their own mountains
higher than they needed to for trade,
until Tensing and a few others caught
the climbing-fever from the British
mountaineers ; but a still more astonish-
ing thing is how very recently the British
and Europeans generally began to climb.
Even the Swiss did not trouble, so far
as the records show, to climb the Jung-
frau until 1811, and it was not until the
JB4o’s and 1850’s that British moun-
taineers started in earnest to climb up
and fall off the Alps, or return in triumph
for
the Guide-Chef, (hat autocrat of the guides’
association, to prepare specially-written
testimonials, for the local innkeeper to
summon the staff for the victory banquet,
and for servants to touch off the cannon
which still roared out to tell the valley of
such a triumphal event
and so to initiate that world-wide on-
slaught on the crags which culminated
in the conquest of Everest.
In The Victorian Mountaineers (Bats-
ford), telling the story of these bearded
and gallant gentlemen and still more
gallant ladies who clambered up the
Alps in bustles, bonnets and parasols,
looking quite incredible in the photo-
graphs, Ronald Clark gives a variety of
reasons for this belated discovery of the
mountains. Noting that the first climbers
were mostly clergymen or geologists, he
suggests that both had been so upset by
Darwin and The Origin of Species
that they found it mutually necessary to
rush up a mountain to reassure them-
selves —the scientists to discover from
the rocks that the Biblical exposition of
creation was impossible, the clergymen
to find from height, space and the
majestic white scenery that it was still
impossible not to believe in a Creator.
Mr. Clark also gives great credit, along
with some severe knocks for daring to
say That the mountains were being used
“as soaped poles in a bear-garden which
you set yourselves to climb and slide
, down again with ‘shrieks of delight’ ”
and, worse, that “All the best views of
hills are at the bottom of them,” to that
noble old curmudgeon John Ruskin, who,
when he- was not being rude to moun-
taineers or feeling, in Mr. Clark’s dread-
ful words, “afraid to climb,” wrote in
the famous fourth volume of Modern
Painters : —
But loveliness of color, perfectness of
form, endlessness of change, wonderfulness
of structure, are precious to all undiseased
human minds; and the superiority of the
mountains in all these things to the low-
land is, I repeat, as measurable as the
richness of a painted window matched with
a white one.
Such is the power of the written word
(when mankind is ready to receive it)
that Ruskin does seem to have set charg-
ing with rapture at the mountains such
Victorians as were not already skipping
into Switzerland under the alarming
impulse of Charles Darwin. “I owe him
a personal debt. Ruskin’s chapters
seemed to have the freshness of a new
revelation,” wrote Leslie Stephen, the
second editor of the “Alpine Journal,”
a clergyman who made the first ascent of
the Schreckhorn and of Monte Della
Disgrazia, the first complete ascent of
Mont Blanc from St. Gervais and the
first passage of the Jungfraujoch and of
the Viescherjoch ... with the unfor-
tunate result that he became an agnostic.
But because the written word does act
so miraculously like a push-button only
when people are ready to be pushed, one
wishes, when the literary origins of moun-
taineering are being considered, that Mr.
Clark had carried his researches a little
further back to William Wordsworth. If
any one writer could really be said to
have moved Hillary to the top of Everest
it was surely that great poet. The 18th
century, under the influence first of Mil-
ton and then of Pope, acutely disliked
Nature, except in its most polite state
in a park. Along came Wordsworth and
announced that the cataracts blew their
trumpets from the steep ; and all the
rest, including Ruskin, followed.
Mr. Clark's theorisings about moun-
taineering motives are, in fact, a bit
muddled. Most of the factors are men-
tioned ; some, like the Darwinian ex-
planation, very interestingly ; but he
never quite seems to get around to what
is probably the most satisfying compre-
hensive view, that it was an aspect of a
Victorian renaissance, comparable to the
Elizabethan exploration of the seas;
and, in a hidden corner of his mind, the
existence of which we may deduce from
his justificatory tone, he seems too much
perturbed by the attacks on moun-
taineering, or embarrassing psychological
explanations of it, in the works of Freud
and W. H. Auden ... but really Freud
might as well have tried to “explain
away” a mountain as to explain away
the spirit of adventure which spurs men
on to climb it.
However, a certain amount of justi-
fication must almost inevitably have
crept into The Victorian Mountaineers
seeing that the craft was so much criti-
cised, and by such eminent persons, in
its beginnings. Particularly after the
Matterhorn disaster, of which Mr. Clark
gives a very lively account without
attempting to explain the final mystery
of why Whymper years afterwards
carried the fatal rope round in a bag,
England was very doubtful indeed about
mountaineering. “Is it life? Is it duty?
Is it commonsense?” “The Times” de-
manded to know. What was the use of
a “society for the scaling of such heights
as the Schreckhorn, the Eiger and the
Matterhorn [which] contributed about as
much to the advancement of science as
would a club of young gentlemen who
should' undertake to bestride all the
weathercocks of all the cathedral spires
of the United Kingdom?” asked some
anonymous voice in “All the Year
Round,” presumed to be that of Charles
Dickens. “The Queen commands me to
ask,” Sir Henry Ponsonby, Queen Vic-
toria’s private-secretary, wrote to Mr.
Gladstone, “if you think she can say
anything to mark her disapproval of the
dangerous Alpine excursions which this
year have occasioned so much loss of
life?” Mr. Gladstone,.one is glad to be
informed, thought not.
Mr. Clark’s account of those who
tackled, fell off or conquered the moun-
tains in this critical period, from the first
ascent of Mont Blanc to Lieutenant Bruce
near the end declaring his belief that
Everest could be climbed (and later, in
1922, leading the first full-scale expedi-
tion to the monster), will fascinate not
only those specifically interested in the
subject but also anyone who cares for
a rich and amusing reconstruction of
Victorian life. It is a book of personali-
ties as much as a book of mountains,
and we meet such notable identities as
the Rev. Wethered (known as “Bother-
head”), who kept himself fit for the Alps
by bathing in the Thames every morning
before breakfast, winter and summer,
even at the age of 70; Professor James
Forbes, who went to the Alps to study
the movement of glaciers—-on which
tranquil subject there was. a furious con-
troversy for years —and, surrendering to
the lure of climbing, was the first Eng-
lishman to surmount the Jungfrau;
Albert Smith, “the man of Mont Blanc,”
a climber and a showman, who ascended
Mont Blanc and then put on in London
an “entertainment” based on the climb,
popularising and advertising it by an
Alpine snakes-and-ladders game called
“The Game of Mont Blanc” and by
deafening and delighting London with
Swiss songs and Swiss misses . . .
Then there are John Ball, first presi-
dent of the Alpine Club, who crossed the
main Alpine chain 48 times by 32 differ-
ent passes and who always climbed with
a geological hammer, a Scotch plaid and
an umbrella ; W. A, B. Cooiidge, “the
young American who climbs with bis
aunt and his dog,” the latter, variously
described as a bullterrier, a bloodhound
and a beagle, being remembered for the
peculiarity that its tail uncurled at high
altitudes ; Lucy Walker, who ate noth-
ing while climbing but sponge-cake and
champagne; Emmeline Lewis-Lloyd,
“short, stout and jovial,” who “enjoyed
the reputation of once having played a
i™S n rt. fr ? m sunrise to sundown, after
which the local population came to regale
her battle with drink and sand-
wiches ; her companion. Miss Straton
hnt° ™ ar i ned her Swiss guide; and, last
but not least in this selection from Mr
Clark s mountaineering portrait-gallery
the unidentified clergyman after whom
the Parsons Nose in Wales got its some-
what irreverent name—a man, as a con-
temporary described him, of remarkable
energy,
uSlTftr Th l6gS flom ab ° Ut 9 a‘m-
was L P ,: Ihe , ) J losl extraordinary thing
dafl’v v could kee P a P such violent
SiL,,?, e i ClSe T h()Ul ■ an >' refreshment
whatevei during the period he was among
the mountains. To prevent thirst, he carried
a small pebble in his mouth We have
seveial times met him on his return to the
inn, drenched with perspiration, and whilst
dinner was being prepared he would con-
tinue at gentle exercise, staff in hand, to
cool down, like a racehorse after a
breather,” exhibiting not the least appar-
ent fatigue.
Though perhaps tending to eccen-
tricity, this gentleman may be taken as
typical, both from the spiritual and
athletic aspects, of Mr. Clark’s Victorians
The writer who described his strange
trottings before dinner added, “He
appeared to have no other object in
climbing to the wild mountain-tops than
merely (as he said) to behold the won-
derful works of the Almighty.”
VARIOUS VERSE
EDGE
Knife’s edge, moon’s edge, water’s edge,
graze the throat of the formed shape
that sense fills where shape vanishes:
air at the ground limit of steel,
the thin disk in the moon’s curve,
land gliding out of no land.
The new image, the freed thought,
are carved from that inert bulk
where the known ends and the unknown
is cut down before it at the mind’s edge,
the knife-edge at the throat of darkness.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
IN SUMMER RAIN
While summer rain makes green the air
my easy birds sing through their fear
and point on straws of stubbled light
over their paddocks of delight.
Where in the rain the leaning hill
unwinds in flats of yellow, all
these orchards in my summer
defy the winters I remember.
And there’s no need to tell me why
the world’s the world or I am I:
when summer rain makes green the air
my easy birds shake off their fear
in rounded drops of simple rain;
they sing beyond the world of pain,
transcend the country of despair
and dance and point on calms of air.
Over the orchards’ gentle light
in circles warm with warm delight
they sing the simple joy of rain.
O may this joy in joy remain.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
WILLY GRAY
Willy Gray lay down in bed,
A mob of galahs flew round his head.
And he cried, "There’s angels in the corn!
Give us the gun before we’re shorn.
Give us the gun,” cried Willy Gray,
And the bedstead creaked like a bullock-
dray.
Well, knock me down and strike a light!
We’ re axle-deep in the black-soil night.
Axle-deep, ’ he said; "but where
The wedgetail eagle climbs the air,
1 11 mount my spurs and sail,” cried Billy,
Like a cow caught up in a willy-willy."
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
MURRUMBIDGEE
Water with a dark-green dorsal-fin
Darting where black-spinners spin
Under the tussocks in the high red rocky
Windswept kangaroo-grass country;
Water waving a lazy tail
In blue pools dreaming in granite shale
Where the spider-gums reflected lie
Like a ruffle of wind across the sky;
Water flashing like a fish in the sun
Where the glittering rapid strikes on
stone-—-
Oh the Murrumbidgee comes leaping out
High on Kelly’s like a silver trout:
And who’d have thought that it could
grow
Such a monster so soon below
With too much knowledge and too much
food
Of crops and cattle drowned in flood
And rolling through the Monaro lie
Like a great cod at Gundagai
That, all its youth forgotten, wallows
Brooding and gross beneath the willows
And hopes next time the rains come down
That it can swallow the whole town.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
CARL
Snails build mansions of pearl, but my
ex-earl
-—For such he must have been to love
leisure so—
Builds in the snow of the sand-dunes, a
low
Tin shanty; windowless to block the wind’s
swirl
Old Carl, for such is the name of my ex-
earl,
Loves light, though, combing it on the
beach.
And what does he do in the dark shanty
for speech.
But listen to the tin flapping: his old girl,
The sea, talking, walking upbeach with the
tide.
3Vhen the stars are wide awake watching
Carl
In his old tin shanty at night, one pearl
He guards, one pearl he has found—his
pride
And his strength that mystic, moon-
crazed sleep
Which he in his age struggles and lives
silently here to keep.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
A Novel of Sydney
ŵ
(Continued on page 35)


PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SHEEP PENS
■ >
_
can be repeatedly built for your original outlay!
Top—Bottom and all
Vertical Bars i\"
wide, i" thick.
ẁ
i" diameter round
bars pass through
flats.
sa
a
KVC-
Panels Used Again!
When the posts are set in con-
crete, the panels can be re-
moved for other use, and only
new posts are needed to make
another yard.
Suitable For All Soils!
These heavy duty angle iron
posts grip in any type of soil.
They are suitable for cement-
ing into the ground per-
manently.
Ransomes Victory Plough
This plough is strongly built in all-steel. It is knife-type
Coulter, and has special Beam channel section steel,
highly polished Breast and Landside steel. The Share,
wrought steel is standard, with replaceable shares avail-
able. One spanner is required for all adjustment, and
the draught is taken from the centre of the beam by
rod, and can be regulated vertically or horizontally.
£l5/17/6.
Cub Air Compressor
With this compressor you can do spray jobs on your
car, tractor, or home. The "Cub” can also be used to
spray your garden and crops. The single cylinder
is x I in., and is air cooled. Its capacity is 2.5
C.F.M., and the working pressure is 8-100 lbs. per
square inch. There is a full range of accessories. Price
(access, extra) Bare Compressor, £9/18/-; Cub, com-
plete with i h.p. motor 240 volt, £4B/10/-; Cub, with
petrol engine, £69. All plus tax if applicable.
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE
ẃ
ẅ
Now, with the use of movable fence panels, temporary or
permanent yards can be continually built over from
the same units, for the original outlay. From the one basic
yard, many different types, such as show pens, trucking yards,
and marking yards can be constructed. These units are
strongly made, yet light enough for one man to handle.
At left is a typical panel. The flat sections are 1 fin.
by fin., and the rods are fin. welded at each end and at
each alternate brace for extra strength. The holes for the
post pins are fin., and the pins are fin. The panels and
posts stack neatly for easy loading and transportation.
w
ŵ
8-30
a.m.
opening
Business people,
don’t forget we open
at 8.30 every morn-
ing. Now you can
keep your lunch
hour for lunch, and
shop before work.
Breakfast
Our Cafeteria is also
open at 8.30, and
you can have an
appetising breakfast
with your friends to
start the day off well.
Repairs
Anthony Horderns’
are ■ famous for ail
kinds of repairs. We
will fix your watch,
stockings, or elec-
trical goods, to
mention a few.
Gardening Quiz
Each Saturday morn-
ing at 8.30 our
“Gardening Quiz” is
conducted by Mr.
Evans over Station
2GB.
Taxi Service
If you want a taxi in
a hurry, ask our
Store Guide at Pitt
Street entrance.
Animal Clinic
If your pet is sick,
bring it to our
Animal Clinic for
free advice on Tues-
days and Fridays
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Dry Cleaning
An efficient 48-hour
service on men’s,
women’s and
children’s clothes,
rugs, etc.
Clothing Hospital
Our Clothing
Hospital will do any
repairs; invisible
mending, alterations,
re-linings, etc., for
men’s and women’s
clothes. We also
recondition leather
coats. Gnd. Fir.,
George Street.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 24, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3867
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND POLITICS
Australia is unique in that it is the only country in
the world which allows defence security to become
the plaything of party politics. Perhaps remoteness
from danger-points has had much to do with it. Even
the dead of World War I seemed a long way away
to many of those who did not personally mourn them,
though in World War II it was those who in the
immediately previous years had had most to say about
the efficacy of disarmament as a weapon of peace
who were most vocal in demanding full mobilisation.
“Labor,” even after Hitler attacked Scandinavia,
overran France and took a hand in Africa and on oceans
contiguous to Australia, was still unenthusiastic about
defence. Though it later was prepared to advertise
the immensity of its effort as an aid to the winning of
elections, the whole basic fabric of what was done in
1941-45 had been woven before it took office and
against its opposition. It opposed compulsory service.
Mr. Ward led the opposition to New Guinea defence
by the militia. It was “Labor” that opposed the
building of the Captain Cook naval dock in Sydney —
and then inherited it in process of construction, and
took lavish credit for having thought of it, to the
extent of excluding former U.AT. Ministers who had
initiated the building of it.
It was “Labor” that opposed the National Service
training which has proved so great a success. It was
“Labor’s” leader who went casually to the A.L.P.
Federal conference after the war and explained to it
that the Government wanted to know what policy
it would pursue in defence, the Defence Department
having obviously, in Mr. Chifley’s view, its rightful
habitat in the Trades Hall.
“Labor” fought to prevent the Communist party,
agent of Moscow, being deprived of its opportunity
to honeycomb Government departments, the defence
administration and industries, but is now taking great
credit for having driven Communists from union-
leaderships, a consummation achieved more according
to the theory that fat “Labor” jobs should belong to
“Labor” agitators than through any real sense of the
peril inherent in the presence of Communists in control
of key unions.
In plain fact the ultimate result of “Labor’s” so-
called industrial-group campaign against Communists
has been merely to lead the Communists to change the
direction of their effort. They are only waiting for the
happy moment when that great “liberal,” Dr. Evatt,
backed by his Leftist staff, enters on his heritage as
Prime Minister, to emerge once more from their holes
and restore the conditions of 1949 —shortages of
material through strikes and go-slow, with attendant
blackouts, unemployment, blackmarkets in short
materials and general unrest leading to loaf and rising
costs.
When Dr. Evatt was Minister for External Affairs
he was involved in a regular series of quarrels and mis-
understandings with Britain and the Dominions. A
friendly agreement with the Russians to the discomfort
of the Americans was to him in his time a real
triumph. The establishment of the Indonesian Republic
with all its attendant murder and violence was regarded
by his followers and intimate advisers as a great victory
for democracy even though it placed a new menace
on our northern shore.
It is not surprising, having regard to his record
in the diplomatic sphere, that his party will emerge
from the elections exulting if it feels that it has shaken
Australian electors’ confidence in the country’s defences
and given the watching aggressors and would-be
destroyers of the White Australia policy encouragement
to make their demands more open and impudent.
According to the prophets of Evattism at the
moment, those especially who have been spreading
themselves through pages of newspaper-space which
so closely follow the party line, it would seem that the
north is wide open, the Air Force obsolete and incom-
petent, our naval bases almost non-existent. No doubt
the campaign will develop an anxious air of hysteria
as it proceeds.
Yet the fact is that Australia is spending £2OO
million a year from revenue, apart from the great
capital works (like the Snowy River scheme) which have
a vast bearing on defence and a development of civil
aviation (the very core of home defence) proceeding
under Government aegis which is unsurpassed anywhere
in the world ; all this leaving out the progress in
nuclear research and guided-missile technique, matters
in which Australia is becoming more and more the
British Commonwealth’s main testing centre.
In point of fact the Commonwealth has never
had a stronger or better-trained defence army. It has
never before been so up-to-date in defensive aircraft.
Its Navy is being rapidly modernised, now that post-
war weapon theory is being clothed in practice.
And the present satisfactory condition has been
evolved from a chaos left behind by “Labor,” which,
in 1949, was as a busy as a bee sacrificing security to
social hand-out systems and allowing the defence
system to die on its feet.
The present “Labor” political campaign is wanton
—untruthful and irresponsible, a, disturbance to
public confidence, and something for which its authors
should be made to pay dearly at the polls.
Suburban "Criminals"
Two related yet seemingly incongruous facts were
publicised in the Sydney Press within a few days of
each other. One was a statement by Senator Spooner,
Minister for National Development, on the Common-
wealth’s consumption of petroleum products.
Announcing that this had reached a record level of
5,125,000 tons last year, making Australia the fifth-
largest consumer in the world, he.said that the most
spectacular increase had been in motor-spirit, of which
721 million gallons had been used. The other item
was the prosecution of two garagemen for selling
petrol after legal trading-hours. Both men were fined
the maximum (£2O), both had a long list of previous
convictions and both proclaimed their intention of
continuing their illegal traffic.
These men are breaking the law; their past
records almost justify their being called, in respect to
the specific offence of after-hours trading, habitual
lawbreakers; yet it is the belief of many law-abiding
citizens that it is not they but the law that needs
reforming. This is borne out by the fact that when it
becomes known that petrol is obtainable at a garage
after the scheduled hours it is not a matter of one or
two motorists furtively asking for a couple of gallons ;
customers come by the dozen and the score. All are
breaking a law that is so much against commonsense
and public need that it is held in contempt.
The attitude of the general run of garagemen, as
expressed by the secretary of the Service Station
Proprietors’ Association, is that they are quite happy
with the present hours and do not favor any extension.
This is understandable. Service-station men like their
leisure and comfort as much as anyone else, and if
they can lock their pumps at 5.30 p.m. in the sure
knowledge that they are not losing any business by so
doing it is only natural that they—like the publicans—
should think early-closing a very good thing. But why
should they be guaranteed against loss of business if
more energetic or enterprising people are prepared to
accept the inconveniences and discomforts that
necessarily accompany night-time trading?
The function of a service-station is to render
service when required, not merely to make a profit for
the proprietor or to provide a job for his employees.
Admittedly a station which doesn’t do the second and
third of these three things won’t remain in business
very long. But unless it performs the first it has no
right to be in business at all.
Petrol is, of course, not the only item affected
by early-closing laws. Details vary from State to
State, but the general principle that it is wrong for a
shop to be open after 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. is fairly
constant. In Sydney the potentialities for making
criminals out of shopkeepers and customers are
probably the most favorable; one may buy an ice-
cream, a malted-milk, a hamburger, a pound of
chocolates or cooked corned-beef after dark, but very
little else.
In consequence, every suburb has its “criminals.”
Everyone is familiar with “the lady in the corner
shop” who doesn’t mind opening the side-door to pass
out the pound of butter or tea, the loaf of bread, the
tin of jam or the bottle of sauce that was left off the
shopping-list earlier in the day. She breaks the law,
as do her customers, but she fulfils a service which few
households can entirely dispense with. Like the
bowser-men, she is periodically haled into court and
fined for her transgressions. Sometimes the informa-
tion is laid against her by a departmental inspector,
but often enough the upholder of the law is a union
official, in which case the Shop Assistants’ Union gets
half the fine —a reward for nobly doing its duty as a
common informer.
Early-closing was originally introduced to prevent
exploitation of shop-assistants, and although the
industrial laws, the 40-hour week, overtime provisions
and a strict policing of awards have removed that
danger, the same principle still governs closing-hours.
The N. S. Wales Official Year-book says “Ordinarily
the closing-time of shops in shopping districts are the
hours fixed by the industrial awards and agreements
for the cessation of work by the employees.”
Because of this we have the anomaly of the sole
proprietor of a small shop employing no assistants
being fined for trading after hours, a barber being
fined for cutting hair at 7 o’clock at night and a cabinet-
maker for working alone in his own factory in the
weekend. The unions’ “common informers,” it appears,
do not miss much.
Friday-night shopping disappeared from Sydney
during World War 11, and the Shop Assistants’ Union
—head-serang, Alderman O’Dea —has strenuously
opposed any suggestion of its reintroduction, though
lately it has dropped hints that it might agree to an
8-o’clock Friday curfew in return for a complete ban
on Saturday shopping.
Like the service-station proprietors, shopkeepers
and are entitled to their leisure, but
they are not entitled to have the entire retail business
secured to them as their close preserve unless they are
prepared in return to give proper service to the public.
Australians pride themselves on living in a young
country, but no country can rightly regard itself as
young in spirit if it tamely suffers its Governments
to strangle enterprise, to kill initiative and to hamper
and restrict its citizens in all their activities. What this
country needs is more of the spirit that impels the
garagemen to meet the public demand which they
know exists and less of the narrow, dictatorial attitude
that inspires restrictive laws.
The S.-p. Press
“D. Empson”: I was a racing reporter once, and
though I haven’t been to the races for years, and
nowadays try to avoid the cataracts of drivel written
and bellowed about them, I have never entirely lost
interest in the sport, as such. Nor, in spite of “sensa-
tional revelations” about this or that horse-trainer,
have I ever ceased to respect trainers as a class. They
were as decent a lot of men as I have met.
But, as I came to learn, at first with no little
astonishment and chagrin, they had a poor opinion of
racing reporters as a breed. They made exceptions,
such as “Pilot” Dexter of the “Referee,” and afterwards
of The Bulletin, of whom they all spoke highly, but
these were few. The others they classed with the
generality of punters as “mugs.”
Nevertheless the successors of these worthies have
become persons of consequence in Australian cities,
Sydney (which I have chiefly in mind) above all. For
it is they who furnish the “information” on which
readers of their papers in prodigious numbers bet —
or, in the jargon of daily journalism and pro-gambling
“Labor” Governments, “invest.” At weekends the
“information” is provided in eight-page form-at-a-
glance (or “lift-out”) sections, with tips from five or
six quarters, issued on Friday and in smaller Saturday
editions. Accompanying these, and on other post-
meeting” days, there are copious chronicles, often with
scare headlines, of what happened on the previous
Saturday and on the training-tracks, and what is going
on among the jockeys and in bookmakers’ clubs.
Bookmakers are invariably referred to with deep
respect. And any runt of a saddle-sitter who is
carpeted by the stewards can be sure of having whole
columns devoted to his “case,” and of seeing his name
on posters here and there.
In short, racing is now, beyond all question, the
principal feature of all the Sydney daily and Sunday
papers. In an incautious moment the “Morning
Herald” confessed or boasted that “gambling is Aus-
tralia’s second industry,” and, along with her contem-
poraries, Granny is doing her best or worst to make
it the first industry. There has been nothing like this
prostitution of journalism in the previous history of the
Fourth Estate, as the British Commonwealth and the
United States have known it, nor anything comparable
to it anywhere else, except possibly in some bullfighting-
mad Latin-American city.
And the craze these rags feed, and their own
pandering to it, are having serious effects on real sport.
Those wonderful young runners Hogan and Tandy,
the best at their distances that Australia, if not the
world, has ever seen, show their paces in Sydney to a
few hundred spectators. Lively cricket-matches are
no longer played on Saturday afternoons by teams
from business houses. Club and even inter-State cricket
has ceased to draw. Amateur football was watched
last winter by old-timers, officials and friends and
relations of the players; precious few besides. The
professional variety had fairly large crowds, and may
continue to get them, but chiefly because you can
wager on anything at League grounds from kicks into
touch and for goal to “the card” at Rosehill or Canter-
bury (or “the last” at Moonee Valley if Rosehill or
Canterbury opportunities have run out), or “the ‘Red
’Ots,’ ” or “the dogs.”
This racing mania is having other, and worse,
if not so evident, effects. Beyond doubt it is a factor
in the decline in manners to which old buffers like
myself, who remember with pleasure the natural
courtesy of the cheerful, if casual, Australian of, say,
the Federation period, can bear rueful testimony. It
vulgarises not only writing but speech, bringing into
ugly prominence, by widespread imitation, the horrible
argot and accents of the bookie’s “runner.” It makes
for domestic unhappiness when the head of the house
loses more than he can afford, as must happen every
Saturday in thousands of Sydney homes.
And there is all too much warrant for believing
that it is a cause of crime. There are people so con-
stituted that they should never be incited to gamble.
The shatter ings of their hopes of making easy money
and the squandering of their own are apt to bring
about complete loss of self-control; then those with
violent streaks in their make-up become dangerous. I
dare say any intelligent policeman with access to the
case-history of convicted men could tell these papers
that many crimes of violence —and there have been
fearful ones lately—as well as most embezzlements
are committed by “sports” who lost their tin.
Meanwhile Australia has for Asian neighbors, not
counting the 90 to 100 million Indonesians who claim
part of New Guinea, a rearming Japan, a Soviet-backed
China suddenly become a great military Power, and
India, still nominally part of the British Common-
wealth. Nine-hundred to a thousand million people
congregate in three countries, each with a furiously
growing population problem and, it is certain, mass-
migration ambitions, to be gratified somehow. How it
must delight their observers to note that the chiet
concern of the daily Press in Australia’s greatest city is
increase of circulation by encouraging a form of
gambling which demoralises and ruins.


ANOTHER ATOMIC FISH
“Throw it bade, Bill—throw it back! It’s radioactive!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The H-bomb
Nothing has been more sensational in
the news than the reports of the effect
of the hydrogen-bomb or -device let oft
in the Marshall Islands on March 1.
It seems to have taken its own makers
by surprise, and if it is true that its effects
were obvious against the crew of a fishing-
boat 1200 miles away, the ambit of atomic
explosions has reached continental instead
of civic proportions. Even the U.S.
authorities admit the danger-zone to
extend for over 400 miles.
A bomb whose radiation reached for
1200 miles would, if exploded in Brisbane,
have potential effects inside a circle of
which the inland boundaries would be
marked by Launceston, Adelaide, Woom-
era, west Lake Eyre, Mt. Isa and Cook-
town. It would cover, in fact, the whole
of eastern Australia. It would completely
engulf Ipswich, Toowoomba, Warwick,
Gympie and Maryborough and every-
thing in between. In Sydney such a blast
could wipe out everything from the Illa-
warra to Bathurst and Newcastle and,
probably, down as far as Canberra and
Goulburn and out as far as Orange and
Wellington.
The chairman of the United States
House of Representatives Armed Forces
Committee remarked last week that
“hydrogen weapons were becoming so
big that if they got much bigger we won’t
be able to test them.”
The fact is, if reports of the Bikini
bomb are true, that it is impossible
already to test them in any inhabited con-
tinent, much less country, without caus-
ing unintentional casualties.
The danger is that Russia, which is
supposed to have the hydrogen-bomb,
which is a cheap weapon compared with
bombs depending on uranium, might
decide to do its testing on somebody
else’s continent. And if it decided to make
three or four tests at one and the same
time, and the continent happened to be
North America, the results might be
entirely disastrous to civilisation, which
might have its main defence-centres
knocked out in a single blow.
It seems that a couple of hydrogen-
bombs would settle the Central European
question, or write finis to Britain’s great-
ness and even existence.
Under the circumstances the matter of
controlling atomic energy becomes more
and more urgent. The Kremlin is quite
ruthless enough to use this kind of weapon
without warning ; but it might use it as a
warning. Along that line of thought Aus-
tralia seems to have a very special in-
terest in hydrogen-bombs.
Suppose Malenkov and his lambs
resolved to make a small but awful
example, a piece of pilot-plant aggression,
selected as a sample of things to come
for those freed nations not willing to
knuckle down. What sort of a place
would they select for the test?
Perhaps a poorly defended continent
with not many people in it, but sufficiently
prominent to attract attention by having
its population blotted out, yet sufficiently
remote for the operation not to have re-
actions too adjacent and personal else-
where, Without any doubt Australia has
to consider its defence position seriously
in this atomic world, and not to resent
defence commitments which cost it £2OO
million a year.
Gold and Trade
The weekend announcement that Britain
was reopening its gold-market, closed
since the war, brought with it a vague
feeling of old times. And for the pre-
sent there may not be a great deal more
in it than that—a promise of things to
come. Dealings in gold will still be
hedged round with restrictions —whilst
gold may be sold by anybody, for ster-
ling, it may only be bought by people
and countries outside the sterling area.
It must be paid for in sterling which has
been bought with dollars or gold, or,
particularly in the case of U.S.A. and
Canada, with sterling the countries
already possess.
The move is not to be confused with
a return to the gold standard. Nothing
like that is occurring. It is simply the
reopening of a commodity market which
traditionally was Britain’s speciality.
Britain is in no way committed to sell
gold under the new arrangement. It is
simply inviting all the countries of the
world to bring their gold to London and
sell it there for sterling, and is hoping,
in the case of the buyers, that sterling
will be brought back to Britain from the
U.S.A. and Canada, and that dollars
will flow from other countries to Britain
in exchange for sterling.
There appears to be an underlying
assumption that those countries wishing
to sell gold are also seeking to buy goods,
and that if they sell gold for sterling they
will buy goods from the sterling area. If
sellers of gold can be encouraged to use
the London market under the announced
conditions of sale there should be many
advantages accruing from it to the ster-
ling area, notably the acquisition of hard
currency or gold, the repatriation of
excessive overseas sterling balances and
the promotion of the sale of sterling
goods.
Simultaneously with the gold-market
announcement came news of the increased
transferability of sterling among all
countries outside the sterling and dollar
areas except, for the present, Persia,
Turkey and Hungary.
These moves are all hopeful signs. To
the extent that they increase sterling ex-
ports and attract “hard” currencies and
gold to the sterling area they will help
in the eventual achievement of sterling
convertibility. But the main hope of a
free and strong sterling depends on
greater British Commonwealth produc-
tivity at lower cost. The trade-unionists
have as big a responsibility in the matter
as has the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Worn-out at 55
When the Commonwealth was founded
it took unto itself a band of public ser-
vants from the postal and Customs
departments of the various States and
used them as a nucleus around which to
build up its own civil service. It was a
modest beginning, but it wasn’t long
before the new departments discovered
that the simplest form of multiplication
was that used by the amoeba and other
unicellular forms of life —reproduction by
subdivision. As a result of the application
of this principle there are now 161,300 men
and women on the Federal payroll.
Generally speaking they stay on it until
65, though some have the option of
retiring at 60.
But people who picture the life of a
Commonwealth public servant as one to
be envied for its regularity of promotion,
its security from the fear of unemploy-
ment and its certainty of a well-pensioned
old age are right out of touch with things.
Apparently the Federal service is a most
exacting one which takes such toll of the
physical and mental resources of its ser-
vants that they become old men before
their time. That is the only conclusion
to be drawn from the report that there is
mounting pressure within the service to
have the optional retiring age reduced to
55.
In most industries the sixty-fivers, un-
less broken in health, retire with reluc-
tance, feeling that they have several years
of useful service left in them, and accord-
ing to the experience of many concerns
which brought back their retired men to
help cope with the war-time shortage of
staff, they are quite right.
Mortality-tables give the man of 65 a
life-expectancy of another 14 years, dur-
ing the first tew of which, at any rate,
he is not likely to be much less efficient
than for the last few years before reach-
ing the retiring age. The tables, of course,
speak for the whole population; there are
no separate statistics to show the life-
expectancy of civil servants. This is un-
fortunate, as they are obviously in a
special class.
It is sad to contemplate the conditions
of the older bracket of Commonwealth
civil servants. Prematurely aged, bowed
down with years of bending over files,
almost blind through endeavoring to
decipher Ministers’ handwriting, almost
too deaf to hear the morning-tea call, we
see them tottering away into retirement
on their fifty-fifth birthday, hoping
against hope that they will be spared at
least a few months to enjoy their little
pension.
Of course, there may be some husky
ones who will still be drawing their pen-
sion at 99. There may be others who feel
fit and willing to snatch another job in
private industry even before they’ve
spent their first week’s pension. But they
will be very few in comparison with the
vast army of human wrecks, worn-out
before their time in the service of their
country, and forced to work on until, at
55, they are grudgingly released purely
because if they were kept on any longer
they would interfere with routine by
dying on the job.
Threats in Asia
The Soviet Union has been violently
active diplomatically in the past few
weeks in trying to prevent concerted
defence of areas round its borders. Apart
from the assistance given to the Viet-
minh forces, which are being fed with
arms for their major attacks on Dien-
bienphu, Moscow has turned its eyes to
the North Sea and Dardanelles and the
Indian Ocean front.
Turkey has received a warning against
entering into a mutuahdefence pact with
Pakistan on the ground that such an
arrangement would be a threat to Russian
security. The Dutch have received a pro-
test against the establishment of American
bases on Netherlands territory in peace-
time, on the pretext that such a measure
would have no purpose, “as it is well
known that Holland is not threatened
with attack.”
It is, of course, perfectly sound for
Russia to establish huge bases in Poland,
which is not threatened with attack, to
appoint a Marshal of the Red Army to
command Polish forces. It is equally
right for Russia to take over the military
arrangements of Rumania, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia as well as East Germany
and to join clandestinely in the wars
against the French in Indo-China and
the U.N.O. allies in Korea, not to men-
tion the underground revolutionary
movements of every country. It is per-
fectly right for the Kremlin to be behind
Mau Mau terrorism and Malayan
banditism and the insidious movements
which are gradually turning Indonesia
into a Communist-controlled State. But
for any other country to think in terms
of mutual defence with those having a
common interest with themselves is
treason to world peace.
There is still no sign of peace in Korea
—Australia sent more relieving troops
there within the past few days. The
Indo-China situation is becoming daily
more serious, and if the dam breaks
there the position will become dangerous.
The Middle Eastern situation is utterly
unstable. Politics in Cairo are marked
by violence, bomb-throwing and intrigue.
The Arabs watch Israel with an un-
friendly eye, and last week accused its
Government of concentrating troops on
the Syrian, Jordan and Lebanon borders.
There has been violence in the Sudan.
The troubled area must long for the
comparative stability of British rule.
The protest on a Pakistan-Turkish pact
has brought forward plans for a British
Commonwealth naval grouping in the
Indian Ocean, one in which Australia
would be bound to join, along with the
United Kingdom, India and Pakistan.
And Moscow’s protests are having no
effect. The latest nations to link up are
West Germany and Turkey, which takes
its stolid way grimly whatever the men-
aces of the Kremlin. This week, in pro-
cess of signing a trade pact, it agreed on
the need for the European Defence
Community.
Good Years
Figures tell an impressive story of the
development of an Australia with a
rapidly-growing population in the indus-
trially-quiet five years which have fol-
lowed the defeat of “Labor” in the
Federal Parliament. The very shift of
population from congested city areas
which is threatening the seats of people
like Mr. E. J. Ward and Mr. Haylen and
Mr. Anderson (of Kingsford-Smith) on
the “Labor” side and of Francis, Wheeler
and others on the Government side is an
index to the increasing availability of
savings, building materials and labor.
The progress in other fields has been
immense—Targe enough to cope not only
with those shortages still felt in “Labor’s”
last year of office —when petrol-rationing
still existed and blackouts and black-
markets were normal features of the
scene —but with the five-year increase in
population now reaching out for the
million-mark.
Production of ingot-steel, a sure pointer
to development, has almost doubled on
monthly average since 1948-9. Monthly
registration of commercial motor-vehicles
has doubled since 1947-8 —this excluding
defence purchases. Retail sales —quar-
terly-average for 1948-9 and quarterly-
total for July-October, 1953—show an
advance from £286 million to £502 mil-
lion.
When in 1948-9 private buildings put
up in the six capital cities —local-govern-
ment returns —averaged 7129 a month,
they averaged about 12,000 a month in
the last six months of 1953. In the
country areas where records were kept
the monthly figures doubled in the period.
There are no blackouts in any capital
city to-day—coal output, with the partial
defeat of Communism, has increased 50
per cent. There is no petrol-rationing, few
beer-shortages; no blackmarketeer can
make a living on cement, timber, liquor
or clothing. Australians, in December,
were on the edge of having £lOOO million
in the savings-banks —their average (all
ages) was more than £lOO a head—and
they were taking out over 40,000 new
insurance policies a month.
Depression, unemployment, hunger,
penury are only words in the dictionary
in 1954, Dr. Jeremiah Evatt notwithstand-
ing. \
Homeless Home-owners
Discussion in Victoria of a possible
amendment to the Landlord and Tenant
Act to give one-home owners the right
to repossess their own homes have found
an echo in Sydney, where the president of
the Real Estate Institute of N. S. Wales,
W, Duncan, is urging similar legislation.
He considers that by placing the onus
on the owner to find alternative accom-
modation for unwanted tenants the law
“practically banishes from their homes
owners of single properties purchased for
that purpose.”
The unfortunate position of the single-
home owner of a tenanted house has
often been commented on, but Govern-
ments show a strange reluctance to do
anything about it. Often the owner is
paying a higher rent for furnished rooms
than he is receiving for his own house,
and there is the added indignity that the
rent he receives must be included in his
income for taxation purposes, but he is
not allowed to set off against it the rent he
pays for his own accommodation.
A further injustice, as Mr. Duncan
points out, is that if the owner, tiring of
his hollow ownership, decides to sell, he
finds it virtually impossible to do so, as
anyone who buys it will find himself in
the same frustrating position. The tenant,
of course, is a possible buyer, but he is
in the privileged position of being the
man in possession and is therefore able
to call the tune. If he wants to buy, his
bid will be much lower than the ruling
rates for a house of comparable value,
and if it is rejected he still has the house
at a low rental.
Rent-control was a war-time measure
introduced to protect the tenant. It has
protected him very well, but it is high
time something was done for the unfortu-
nate victim of its benevolence. One-home
owners haven’t as many votes as tenants,
and therein lies their greatest handicap.
"Tourism-class Air-travel
With the introduction of tourist-class
services on the Qantas Kangaroo route to
Britain on April 1, all parts of the world
will now be linked by tourist-class ser-
vices. The single fare to London will be
£6B 15s. cheaper than present first-class
fare, and the return fare will mean a
saving of £135. .
Aircraft used for tourist services will
be the same as for first-class travel, with
no change in the standard of speed or
safety. But the number of seats in the
aircraft has been increased by a new
layout of the interior and the use of
special chairs. The Constellations at
present operating on the Kangaroo Ser-
vice will carry 60 tourist passengers,
while the Super-Constellations which
will be introduced in July will seat 82.
The free-baggage allowance will drop to
441 b. per passenger, while some of the
“frills” will disappear from the cabin
service. Qantas believes that the majority
of travellers are satisfied to have attrac-
tive and adequate meals, but are not
greatly concerned about complimentary
wines and cigarettes. In every other way,
tourist travel will be of the same standard
as first-class.
“The new service,” says Qantas, “means
fast travel in comfort and safety, but not
in complete luxury. This will appeal to
many thousands of people who previously
regarded overseas air travel as beyond
their means.”
Most overseas airline operators are
members of the International Air Trans-
port Association, which represents 40
different countries, and the question or
tourist-class travel was first discussed by
the association as early as 1949. By 1951
it was decided that the time had come to
introduce two-class travel across the
North Atlantic. The new service was
keenly observed as an experiment by
operators in other parts of the world.
Tourist services within the continent or
Europe were approved in 1952. As the
scheme developed and further aireran
became available, new services were intro-
duced between Europe and Asia on cer-
tain routes, and, shortly afterwards, it
was decided that they would girdle the
world by April, 1954.
From the beginning, the world-wide
experiment has been a success. Airline
crossing the North Atlantic in the first
six months of operation carried 38 pe
cent, more passengers than m the sar
months of the previous year, and 5? per
cent, of all passengers used tourist
accommodation.


POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. under the Cahills—Newcastle,
Sydney and Wollongong.
• «
Although Federal polling-day is nearly
10 weeks away and the swan-song of
the present Parliament is yet to be sung,
the preliminary moves of the election
campaign have already begun. The Doc.
made a visit to Tasmania a fortnight ago
and Menzies has just spent several days
there. Both will revisit Tassie again
when the fight is really on. This early
interest in Hobart is probably due to
the fact that the refusal of Tasmanian
living-costs over the last two quarters to
conform to the steadying pattern of the
mainland States has raised hopes and
fears of a swing in some of the Govern-
ment’s four seats.
• •
Menzies, with Fadden and other
Ministers on his platform, will deliver his
policy-speech in the Memorial Hall at
Canterbury (Vic.) on May 4. Evatt will
follow suit at Hurstville (N.S.W.) on
May 6.
• •
Premier Hawke’s pre-tour announce-
ment that he did not intend to recom-
mend any Royal-visit honors because of
“Labor’s” policy, but that “if the Queen
wishes to bestow them on some of the
fellows who have been doing a lot of
the hard work, then that is another
matter,” was not exactly the essence of
tact and courtesy, but at least it was
several lengths ahead of Cain’s boorish
statement.
It means that Westralians whose
Royal-visit duties put them in line for
decorations will not have them knocked
out of their hands by ghosts from
“Labor’s” past. Only in Victoria of the
five “Labor” States has that happened.
• •
Saturday’s by-election for the Leich-
hardt seat in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
saw the “Labor” candidate, R. F. Coady,
win comfortably. With only a few dozen
votes to come, he had 12,641 on the board
while the two Independents Blackmore
and Dougherty had 3057 and 2531
respectively and McCrystal the Republi-
can 319. But Cahill and Co. have little
to congratulate themselves over. With-
out any strong organisation behind them
the Independents polled almost as many
votes as the Liberal candidate did at the
general election last year. “Labor’s” vote
was down 6000-odd.
• •
J. G. Arthur, former N. S, Wales
Minister for Mines, has been seeking
re-admission to the A.L.P., from which
he was expelled after the Doyle inquiry
last year. The State executive of the
party rejected his application on Friday
last, saying that they “did not propose to
let him escape his punishment from the
Labor party.”
• •
“Observer”: There is a slip in the
article on the Henry Parkes Memorial
(B. 10/3/’54) in that it speaks of Parkes
hastening to Brisbane “to discuss the
matter with Premier Gillies, of Queens-
land.” Actually Duncan Gillies was
Premier of Victoria (February 18, 1886,
to November 5, 1890). He and Alfred
Deakin were the two Parkes had to con-
vince, and a conference in Melbourne,
presided over by Gillies, followed the
Tenterfield speech.
• •
It is rather curious that the Cain Gov-
ernment should suddenly have become
pious about housie-housie just when it
was about to bring another form of
gambling to Melbourne. Cain has dis-
covered that the promoters get too much
out of the game, but they’ve been doing
that for a long time. Millions of pounds
have been bet on housie in the last few
years without arousing any great display
of moral indignation in “Labor” ranks.
Anyway, it’s to be banned now; Cain’s
“Tatt.’s” will have the field to itself.
• •
The Hollway Libs spoke of taking the
initiative on rent-reform when the Vic-
torian Parliament reopens on April 6.
Their plan was a private bill in the
Legislative Council, where they hold the
balance of power, and they hoped to get
it through the Council with the help of
the official Libs, and the Country party.
Chief provisions of the bill were said
to be: —
One-home owners to be given absolute
right of repossession.
Luxury flats and premises to be removed
from rent-control.
Landlords and tenants to be permitted to
fix rents by private treaty.
Cain had said that his Government did
not intend any changes in rent-control
this year, but last week he changed that
to this session, whereupon Hollway
seemed to decide to postpone action till
the spring. Hollway’s first two suggestions
shouldn’t cause Cain much worry in
caucus, but the third will probably have
the bhoys shrieking blue murder,
o •
Finding this informative item in a
Gold Coast paper
France has agreed to withdraw all her
occupation troops from her zone of Aus-
tralia, Herr Oskar Helmer, Australian
Minister of Interior, has announced.
London “Punch” commented: “That’s
one thing U.N. can strike off the agenda.”
• •
An “armorial design,” with laurel
leaves and an eagle in brass, is to replace
LIABLE TO CRACK
“Sydney ‘Daily Mirror,’ the paper with the largest evening circulation in N. S. Wales, has
gone desperately pro-Evatt and recklessly anti-Menzies. But it has been known in the past to
reverse its political policy between one day’s issue and the next.”
“‘Mirror,' ‘Mirror’ on the wall,
Who’s the fairest of us all?”
St. Edward’s crown in all designs of
badges and buttons worn by the armed
forces of Ceylon. As an independent
member of the British Commonwealth,
Ceylon, of course, can please itself in
such matters, although the timing of the
change seems unfortunate, with the
wearer of that Crown due in Ceylon next
month. Ceylon has been protected in two
world wars by armed services whose
badges included the Crown, and in any
future conflict it would again be those
services which would take the brunt of
any aggression— not the wearers of the
laurel and eagle.
• •
Latest political invalid is veteran Dave
Drummond, former N. S. Wales Minister
for Education and now Federal member
for New England. He lies very seriously
ill in his constituency, and arrangements
for selection of a Government candidate
for the seat were suspended for the
moment when this was written.
• •
Compulsory unionism received an
airing in two courts in Sydney last week.
The Full Bench of the N, S. Wales In-
dustrial Commission heard nine appeals
against the refusal of the Industrial
Registrar to grant exemptions on the
grounds of conscientious objection. The
appeals will be test cases, on the result
of which the fate of many hundreds more
probably depends. The names of the
appellants were not disclosed and judg-
ment was reserved.
In the Federal Arbitration Court judg-
ment was also reserved in a case where
the A.E.U, and the A.S.E. were called
upon to show cause why their members
should not be directed to work with a
non-unionist. The man in question had
religious scruples against joining a union
and had been dismissed by his employers,
Le Tourneau Westinghouse Pty., Ltd., at
the request of the unions. The court was
told by the company’s counsel that if the
difficulties were solved it was prepared
to re-employ the man. Kirby, J,, then
said:
And if the difficulties are not solved,
White will simply languish. They used to
throw the early Christians to the lions and,
apparently, they are doing it to-day.
• •
Under orders from the Victorian
Onion Board, 30 men ambushed a
motor-truck near Colac and confiscated
its load; according to one observer, they
jumped on to the truck with knives and
cut through ropes and tarpaulins. If it
wasn’t for the official acknowledgment it
would appear that the ghosts of the
Kelly gang were trying to stop Victorian
growers sending their onions to Sydney.
• •
R. R. Broadby, secretary of the
A.C.T.U., has told those who are advo-
eating a general strike over margins that
those urging national stoppages should con-
sider carefully what happened when general
strikes were held in other countries.
That is sound advice.
Evatt, in his Sunday-night broadcast —
the one in which, since the Royal tour
began, he has been featured as the
“Leader of her Majesty’s Federal Oppo-
sition” —also spoke with unwonted blunt-
ness on this subject, describing protest-
stoppages as unjustified and regulation-
strikes as “a sham and a pretence
little less than anarchy and sabotage.”
The Doc. is making a bid for the support
of skilled workers and professional men.
It is rather belated —it is his party’s policy
of glorifying the pick-and-shovel man
that has reduced the value of margins for
real skill.
• •
One earthquake victim in S.A, was the
Speaker of the House of Reps., whose
home at Oakbank was split so that day-
light could be seen through most of its
walls. To the grief of the Press gallery
in Canberra it is still not possible to see
daylight through any part of the Speaker
himself. His carapace seems impene-
trable to Pressquake shocks.
• •
“Stromlo”: In the Northern Territory,
as in Canberra, there is a strong feeling
in favor of the assumption of responsi-
bility for local-government, and in the
Territory the reintroduction of this system
seems to be getting nearer. Latest pro-
posals follow a report by R. S. Leydin,
Government Secretary, and, in the words
of Minister for Territories Paul Hasluck,
should “lead the way to an ever-increas-
ing measure of self-government for the
whole Territory as its population grows
and its resources are developed.” He said
the Territory’s citizens would find the
Government had been liberal, and mind-
ful of special conditions. But he added
a word of warning, which might be taken
to heart also by the advocates of self-
government for the A.C.T.: “It will rest
largely with those Territory citizens who
want local-government,” he said, “to con-
vince the few who hang back from
responsibility.”
• •
Paul McGuire probably agrees that aH
roads lead to Rome —even the one that
by-passes Dublin.
• •
In a broadcast in which he appealed
for commonsense thinking on the subject
of trade with Japan, Menzies said that
education must produce a sense of values,
high ethical standards, and a spirit of
tolerance, or it fails. He added:
Don’t tell me that all this is obvious,
because it isn’t. You know as well as I
do that the easiest and quickest way to
score in a political argument is to appeal
to intolerance, hatred and prejudice. Such
appeals are, perhaps, good politics; but
they are detestable statesmanship. And
in the long run we need statesmanship, don’t
we?
But are they good politics? How much
of the downfall of “Labor” was due to
the intolerance, hatred and prejudice dis-
played by some of the party’s members?
And “Labor” is still handicapped by the
same politicians harping the same raucous,
threadbare tune.
• •
Extract from a report on the Common-
wealth public service by the Public Ser-
vice Board:
A review of temporary establishments in
a number of departments has been carried
out, resulting in the permanent creation of
many temporary positions, the functions of
which were found to be permanent in nature,
and the consequent absorption of a large
percentage of unattached officers. The
review is being continued.
Presumably the review is of a tempor-
ary permanent or a permanent temporary
nature.
e •
Rival teams of treasure-hunters are
seeking pirate Benito’s hoard at Queens-
cliff (Vic.). If they find it the rivalry will
probably be transferred to Government
level —Federal Taxation Commissioner
versus Victorian Treasury.
• •
When Civic Reform aldermen criti-
cised the election of a Sydney City
Council employee as president of the
A.L.P. Municipal Assembly on the
ground that it made him “the boss cocky
of the Labor junta which will have all
the say in a council now dominated by
Labor aldermen,” W. R. Colbourne,
president of the State A.L.P., said that
such assemblies did not direct policy, but
merely had an organisational function to
perform. It would be interesting to know
what function the Leichhardt Municipal
Assembly performs. Its annual meeting
and election of officers are advertised for
tonight. There is no Leichhardt Council,
that body having been dissolved and the
municipality placed under an admin-
istrator.
• •
Cumberland County Council wants all
airline and tourist-coach terminals
removed from the inner-city area and
placed “on the perimeter.” Even with the
present system passengers travelling inter-
state by air spend almost as much time
getting to and from the airports as they
do in the air. The suggested plan would
increase the ground travelling-time when
the reverse should be the real objective.
• •
South Australian Liberals will not be
running candidates for the Port Adelaide
and Hindmarsh seats, where the “Labor”
majorities hover around the 20,(X)0-mark,
but will oppose former Army Minister
Chambers in Adelaide and Deg Russell in
Grey. They’ll also try to win back
Kingston, lost by a small margin in 1951.
• •
Coal freight-rates on the Australian
coast have been reduced and the inter-
state steamship companies have an-
nounced that rates on general cargo will
also drop on May 1 when the recently-
announced cut in the stevedoring levy
takes effect. Overseas lines are still
thinking it over. Their passenger-fares
have recently been increased,


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AS the girls came into the office they
each gave me a cheery “Good-
morning, sir.” When Miss Jones arrived
she looked depressed. “Good-morning,
sir,” came in a very deep and husky tone.
“Viffiat’s your trouble, Miss Jones?”
‘l’m worried, sir. It’s either a bad cold
or I’m changing sex.” —“Tripod.”
♦Jt
“Lord Luvus”: A Commonwealth
department with headquarters in Mel-
bourne had to send a man to Canberra
to supervise a certain aspect of the Royal
arrangements. As it wasn’t a very
“Have you time for an egg, Henry ?”
important job nobody wanted to go, and
a junior clerk was sent. For doing a good
job he received a C.V.O. His chief in the
Melbourne office is an XYZ or something,
but with his C.V.O. the clerk takes pre-
cedence over him.
❖ * ❖
“Vingter”; Some British migrants lose
their native accent within a year or so ;
others retain it as long as they breathe.
Of the latter category is McTavish, whose
burr has, if anything, probably thickened
in the 40 years since he left Caledonia.
On the tram Mac, moved to admiration
of the linguistic ability of a New Aus-
tralian lass, congratulated the speaker and
inquired how long she had been in Aus-
tralia. The lass gracefully acknowledged
the compliment and, after explaining she
had been six months in this country,
smilingly suggested, “I’m sure you would
do just as well if you would only try.
Would you like the name of a good
teacher?”
♦5 * »>
“Dumbar”: Australia’s first talking-
clock will shortly be clocked into Mel-
bourne’s telephone service. In 1937 the
installation of this marvel in Calcutta
almost paralysed the city exchange—
because of the dulcet charm of the
female voice which greeted diallers of
“TIM.” Calcutta wolves tried drooling
compliments into their phones, only to be
ignored. At length the information per-
colated through the English and vernacu-
lar papers that the Voice belonged to Miss
Jane Cain of England, and that what
they heard was the series of recordings
made by her for the English clock. Per-
haps trouble of this kind was anticipated
here, for the P.M.G. has announced that
Melbourne’s time-checkers will be
answered by a man’s voice—Australian,
and strictly anonymous !
♦S * *l*
“P.0.M.C.”: I’ve heard of jockeys
secreting electric batteries in the handles
of their whips, the heels of their boots
and other places in the unlawful interest
of speed. How’s this, in the legitimate
service of safety? A rider who canters
a hack about our Sydney suburb at night
has built his battery, complete with
glowing red tail-light, into the rear pad-
ding of his saddle.
»£♦ <s*
“R.V.”: Several times during the Royal
visit Melbourne’s weather-forecasters
showed uncanny prescience in predicting
whether rain would fall here or there on
the route of a progress, sometimes to
within a few yards. The Queen could
travel in an open car in one part of the
city while rain was falling in another.
Explanation is that the Weather Bureau
was using radar for the first time. Rain-
bearing clouds show white on the screen,
and indicate the distance and the direc-
tion they are going. The equipment,
which cost £lOO,OOO, was installed in all
States for the Royal tour ; meteorologists
believe it will revolutionise Australian
wet-weather forecasting.
■ijf
“Narumee”: Misplaced emphasis on
words (B. 10/3/’54)? An impassioned
plea for the “Prevention of Cruelty to
English” from Compton Mackenzie
recently appeared in “The Spectator,”
in which he tilts at the 8.8. C, for con-
doning “oh-pus” for “opus,” yet keeping
“opera” instead of “oh-pera,” and for
permitting “defficit” instead of “DEficit.”
He also notes with dismay “a growing
inclination among English people to copy
the uncivilised American pronunciation
of ‘eego’ for ‘ego.’ ” But even he is
unable to name an authority (apart from
himself) whose judgment on correct pro-
nunciation may be universally accepted—
he describes Logan Pearsall Smith (of
the 8.8. C. committee appointed to give
rulings on pronunciation) as having “the
crossbred accent of Harvard and Oxford
mated with the crossbred accent of
Bloomsbury and Philadelphia.” What
amazes me is Sir Compton’s wanting to
prevent cruelty to English—he’s a Scot,
and a Nationalist to boot!
A ... ...
“Swelpme”; I’m filled with concern
for the chap who has to select a suitable
opponent for a champion’s “warm-up”
fight. If the victim inconsiderately allows
himself to be knocked rotten in less than,
say, seven rounds, then the bout will
“Any more for the merry-go-round ?”
not have had the desired effect of bring-
ing the champ up to the peak of his form.
On the other hand, it seems to be un-
thinkable that an opponent who has a
good chance of flattening the champion
could be given the fight. It’s so much
easier for greyhound-trainers—they have
a range of victims from guinea-pigs and
rabbits to de-clawed cats and possums.
But “warm-up” fighters! Probably Nero
had the same difficulty in selecting just
the right Christian to give the mob a
show for their money without seriously
injuring a valuable lion.
* ❖
“Kelvin”: Melbourne with its first
drive-in theatre is lagging about 25 years
behind the central-western Queensland
town of Longreach. There the locals with
cars drove up to the open-air movie-show
and, without dismounting, watched the
silent flicks whenever duststorms per-
mitted. A man with a collection-box
went the rounds of the parked cars and,
generally, the system worked quite well.
Cars had running-boards then, and those
patrons who preferred enacting to watch-
ing love-scenes left their admission-money
on these.
♦5 ,** *
“M.J.8.”: Opening by the Queen in
Melbourne of the Shrine Forecourt
honoring those who fell in War II set
me thinking about war memorials in
general. The most useful and unusual is
probably that in Cottesloe (W.A-)- In
1949 the Cottesloe Municipal Council
purchased the palatial home of Claude de
Bernales, spent £5OOO in alterations, and
the next year opened it as their war
memorial, town hall, and civic-centre. It
includes baby-clinics and children’s play-
grounds, council offices, returned sol-
diers’ club-rooms, and a cafe which caters
for functions held in the beautiful ball-
room upstairs. On the big lawns every-
thing from opera to physical-culture is
staged. And there is a steady stream of
tourists to see some of the finest jarrah
panelling in the State.
❖ ♦> ❖
“An Chuidh”: Galloway “in” the Low-
lands (B. cover, 10/3/’54)? The terms
Highland and Lowland are not geo-
graphical, but racial, and the race which
inhabits the Highlands is the Gael, com-
prising basically the Piet and the Scot.
While the area north of the Forth and
Clyde is a mixture of Piet and Scot with
a sprinkling of Norse, the Gallowean is
almost pure Pictish, and remained an
independent kingdom until the twelfth
century. They had their clan-system and
spoke Gaelic until recent times. In the
time of the poets Dunbar and Kennedy
the Highland Line dropped almost due
south from Stirling —Kennedy, a Gal-
lowean, being, by the way, a Gaelic-
speaker. In Galloway abound such names
as MacClumpha, MacCrindle, Mac-
Haffie, MacMeeking, Mac Skimming,
MacCutchen and Mac Harrie, all pure
Gaelic.
* * *
,
Macnell : In my day, first it was the
four-barrelled Vickers point-five—what
we wouldn’t do to the Luftwaffe with
tha * bab Y ! Then came the Oerhkon, with
what we considered a shattering shell
da P suicide-bombers laughed at it, and
so the single Bofors, then the four-barrel-
ler, took over. It’d take a good air-
craft to get past ’em, added to the fire-
power of our four-inch armament. I
remember with pride working-up a four-
inch battery of eight guns to 22 rounds a
minute! Bigger guns, of course, six- and
eight-inch, were pretty useless against fast
aircraft, unless they were in barrage-
firing—a six-inch crew being lucky to
get off 12 rounds a minute. And now
the Admiralty announces that it has a
revolutionary six-incher capable of getting
away five tons of metal a minute! A six-
inch projjie weighs about 1001 b. So the
new manglers can deliver close on 100
rounds a minute. Revolutionary ? A man
might make a fair able-seaman in the
next show.
❖ ❖
“C.Q.”: I’m told Namatjira could
build a house on the block he owns in
Alice Springs if he wanted to. The Gov-
ernment told him it was willing to grant
him a licence if he applied for it. He
refused to apply on the grounds that he
did not want to be given a privilege denied
his fellow-abos. A man with dignity as
well as'an artist.
£* *
“Uramao”: Accidental namesakes (B.
10/2/’54) —how about the two Winston
Churchills? Winston (Hitler’s love) in
the late ’nineties received friendly Press
notices on Richard Carvel, whereupon, in
vein friendly, he wrote to Winston (the
American author) concerning the con-
fusion. He understood that W. (U.S.)
had another work in hand, Savrola, and
as W. (U.K.) proposed bringing out a
book on the Sudan campaign there “was
grave danger of his works being mistaken
for Mr. Winston Churchill’s.” W. (U.S.)
in reply was “extremely grateful to Mr.
Winston Churchill for bringing forward
a subject which has given Mr. Winston
Churchill much anxiety.” And he
thanked the politician for his kind offer
to use in his books the name “Winston
Spencer Churchill.” The amiable corres-
pondence continued, and when W. (U.K.)
visited the U.S. in 1900, W- (over there)
welcomed him and threw a party. This,
they thought, would end all confusion
in identification. After the banquet,
however, Winnie was not so sure —W.
(U.S.) received some of the visitor’s mail;
W. (U.K.) received the banquet bill.
*l* *i* *l*
“P.0.M.C.”: Assuming that the basic
attraction between the sexes is physical,
how does the deceitful charmer who
exploits “Willpar’s” sponge-rubber goods
(B. 3/3/’54) face-up to marriage? Is her
sex so utterly devoid of conscience that
she (the bond having been signed, sealed
and delivered before he discovers her
duplicity) can tell him to go chase him-
self should he protest his disappointment
that she should so wilfully and con-
spicuously affront him? Would her
sponging on his impressibility be gener-
ally regarded as moral, if not legal,
grounds for busting a romance based m
part upon such false attributes? Imperti-
nent questions, perhaps, but to which one
of “Willpar’s” self-confessed tricksters
might supply pertinent answers.
’PRENTICE HANDS
ẁ
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A WOMAN walked up to a well-known
Melbourne artist when he was
painting a landscape in the Fitzroy Gar-
dens ; then shied off as if he had hit her.
When he paints he swears without ceas-
ing.—“C.B.”
♦5 ❖ i*
“Zorok”: E. V. Lucas (B. 3/3/’54)
was chairman of Methuen’s when that
publishing house in 1926 sued for libel
against C. S. Millard, a recognised
authority on Oscar Wilde, It arose out
of Methuen’s having published a play,
“For Love of the King,” which a Mrs.
Wodehouse Pearse had claimed as an
" You'd think they'd give her a parachute instead of them silly umbrellas.”
unpublished wtSrk of Wilde’s. Millard
had stated;
With the assistance of Mrs. Chan Toon
(Mrs. Wodehouse Pearse) this eminently
respectable firm has succeeded in foisting
on an unsuspecting public 1000 copies of a
book at Bs. 6d. net for which, but for
Oscar tilde’s name and the imprint of
Methuen and Co., Ltd., no one would have
paid B^d.
Verdict for plaintiff, £lOO, with costs.
(Lucas in the box claimed that he had
never doubted the play’s authenticity, and
did not then, though he admitted he
thought it “inferior” Wilde.) In lecturing
Millard after the verdict the judge
quoted a genuine Wilde aphorism: “To
give advice is often dangerous ; to give
good advice is always fatal.”
*& * »
“Bo”: It was Saturday afternoon, and
she had occupied the phone-booth for
about ten minutes, with still no diminu-
tion in the verbal output. The fat bloke
outside with the form-guide ceased chew-
ing his finger-nails down to the quicks—
he could stand it no longer. Pushing open
the door, he rasped: “Have a heart, can’t
y’, missus? I gotta git on —there’s a race
in three minutes.” The lady swung around
and thrust out her battleship chin. “Is
there!” she beefed. “Well, you ought to
jist about win it. You’re the on’y entry,
top-weight an’ favorite. The nearest
booth’s up near the park. The barrier’s
up!”
* * *
“Muskeen”: My entry in the official-
clarity stakes (B. 24/2/’54) is this instruc-
tion for the calculation of income-tax
and social-services contribution:
The rate of income tax and social ser-
vices contribution for every £1 of each part
of the taxable income specified in the first
column of the following table is the rate
set out in the second column of that table
opposite to the reference to that part of
the taxable income.
“Melbn”: If any decorations
are flying round in Melbourne
some should land on members
of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade. The 1450 on duty
from the arrival of the Queen
till her departure don’t get a
brass razoo, and, moreover,
they provide their own uni-
forms and kit and pay their own
fares. During their 5200 man-
days of service they dealt with
2500 cases of crushed bodies,
squashed feet, collapsings and
faintings. Some of them sacrificed part
of their annual leave to do it. This is a
fine renaissance of the crusading spirit of
the founders who established their order
in the Holy City in 1099. Local chief is
District Superintendent Colonel A.
Christie, who, with his officers, spent
months preparing plans which went like
clockwork.
£4 £4
“B. M. Lever”: The soldier, drafted
to Hawaii, pre-Pearl Harbor, refuses ,to
box in the company squad—he blinded an
opponent once. So he gets the treatment
by a promotion-seeking company-com-
mander. Unending fatigues, no leave,
bullied, snubbed, sadistically ordered up
the mountain under full pack, down, and
up again. His mate, sent to a near-by
prison-camp for resisting arrest while
drunk, is bashed by a brutal sergeant who
could teach the Belsen boys a wrinkle or
two —finally dies. The unwilling boxer
slays the sarge with his own knife, and,
wounded, goes into hiding. Come the
bombs. At once, barely able to walk,
he must return to his company—a mob
for which any ordinary man could have
nothing but contempt. But “From Here
to Eternity” was made, obviously, in
collaboration with the U.S. Army, so the
picture it presents must be factual,
Prompts one to ask, with the leading
character when he joins it, “What sort of
outfit is this?”
* * *
“Bosun’s Mate”: Recent righting to an
even keel of the Empress of Canada’s
20,000-ton fire-gutted weight from the
bottom of a Liverpool (Eng.) dock was
certainly a sizeable feat—one of the big-
gest such ever undertaken in Britain,
executed in 56 minutes after 14-months
preparation. But what impressed me was
the hawsers with which the great heave
was made. The biggest in the Navy is
“They MUST be hungry.”
a six-inch wire used, infrequently, for
towing a large ship from a cruiser. In
Liverpool salvagemen used six winches
deeply gripped in concrete, each winch
winding-in a nine-inch hawser, made of
extra-special flexible steel-wire rope. That
means each wire grappled round the
Empress’s belly had a breaking-strain of
just under 300 tons. And as, to prevent
kinking, the diameter of a sheave over
which such a wire runs must be at least
six times the size of the rope, the monsters
ground and strained through blocks, or
pulleys, well over 6ft. high.
*l* *■ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: When an opportunity to
make an honest (I said honest) penny
bobs up municipal councils aren’t
usually backward in coming forward,
but Sydney County Council (B. 10/3/ ’54)
seems to have slipped. At any rate, it
has taken tuppence to get you anywhere
of importance in the lavatory world on
the ferry-wharf at Manly for several
years past.
<£♦ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”; The writer who dug up
those ditties of old Sydney for The
Bulletin overlooked at least one
gem. It was preserved by an old hod-
carrier who regaled my apprentice days
with graphic, gory and allegedly first-
hand accounts of “push” fights, decided
with bike-chain knuckledusters, in the
good old days when the smart young
man wore bell-bottomed trousers and
mirrors in the toes of his boots. The
ditty seemed to have caught the spirit of
the day:
“You played fan-tan in Goulburn-street
from night till early morn.
You made your poor old mother curse
the day that you were born.
You’ll be sorry for this conduct when
we’re dead and gorn, me lad ;
And may yer children stoush yer like yer
stoushed yer poor old dad.”
♦J4 *J4 /J,
“Esskay”: In search of help in helping
his daughter with her homework a friend
telephoned me asking for the names of
the six State Premiers. Turning to the
Bulletin “Political Points” (10/3/’54), I
secured Gair, Playford, Cain, Cahill (by
inference) and Cosgrove. No mention of
Westralia. Search of Bulletin 3/ 3 / ’54
—still no mention. Current daily papers
were no more helpful. A telephone-call
to a local Westralian elicited the name,
“Hawke.”
❖ ❖ <4
“Seppy”: Australian ways that New
Australians don’t understand (B. 3 /3 / ’54).
An editorial, heavily outlined in black,
in a Dutch paper published here dis-
cussed the Australian usage of the word
“bastard.” The Dutch have a similar
word, but the meaning is more of some-
thing crossbred than illegitimate. Appar-
ently, our word had been causing con-
fusion, because the paper went to great
lengths to explain its exact meaning, and
that it was used more as a term of affec-
tion between friends than anything else;
even in anger it was just another swear-
word rather than a reflection on ancestry.
Was tickled by the last sentence: “It is
suggested that this word be not used to
ftn Australian, unless he is particularly
friendly towards you.
* * $
“Kanimbla”: “Brand-new” could be a
distortion of “bran-new” (B. 3/3/’54); it
could also be the original—the brand be-
ing worn off items subjected to hard
usage. Cinderella’s glass slipper resulted
from a distortion. In the original
(French) version the slipper was vair,
a kind of fur. French for glass is yerre.
The first translator into English mistook
the two words. So to children in the
English-speaking world Cinderella’s
slipper has always been of somewhat
uncomfortable glass.
“Prad”: Are Australians maturing at
last? Victoria’s Garden City’s 1954
Begonia Festival struck a progressive
note when, during its recent carnival-
week, an “open day” was held at Bal-
larat’s large mental hospital. About 40
thought it worth while to go along to
see the hospital in action and to hear
talks by prominent psychiatrists. That’s
not many people from an overcrowded
city, of course, but still a step in the
right direction. With mental ills on the
increase, a change of attitude towards the
mentally sick is long overdue. More of
these “open days” would help to break
down the prejudice chaining the average
person’s mind to the backward notions of
a less-enlightened age.
“Sister ElleU”: When I was training,
a few of us dearly loved a flutter on the
nags, aided and abetted in placing the
bet by the hospital porters. One night I
was summoned to the operating-theatre,
there to supervise the return to the ward
of a Sister who had had an emergency
operation. The porter wheeling the
barouche was one of our abettors; we
trundled along in silence till we reached
the only light in the courtyard. There
he lowered the patient and started fumb-
ling in his coat pocket. I said, “Come on,
Jim, no time for that —her color isn’t too
good.” “Aw,” he replied, “I’ve seen
worse’n her in me day, she’s okay.” He
handed me a grubby piece of paper.
“They’re y’are, tomorrow’s tips. And
don’t you forgit to let me know in time,
either! ”
* $4
“Gui”: An R A.A.F, constructjon-
wing C.O. in New Guinea was also
task-force engineer at American head-
quarters. The Yank general complained
heatedly that the R.A.A.F, had appro-
priated several dozen magnums of cham-
pagne from a Jap dump, and demanded
their return. Investigating, the C.O. found
his steward floating in the creek and laid
him on the bank to dry beside several
other stinko members of his wing. Cause
—sake mixed in large bottles with lolly-
water. To prove to the Yank that good
champagne had not gone astray, he took
back an empty bottle, there being no full
ones. “I know it isn’t champagne,” roared
the general. “Your goddam troops have
been bootlegging the stuff to my officers
at five pounds a bottle and most of them
are sky high!”
UNFAILING SOURCE
He stood before his canvas there;
So proud was he — I’d say none more
so.
I looked. A puce-haired woman, square
Of leg; she seemed to have no torso.
Her pipelike arms hung past her knees;
Instead of hands she’d bathroom-
faucets ;
She stood between two gallows-trees
Striped like a barbers’-pole—and these
Were wearing loosely-laced-up corsets.
Near by, an outsize human eye
Stared down at half a scarlet lizard;
A butterfly was sailing by
Trailing several yards of gizzard;
A skeleton, its skull beneath
Its feet-bones, held a tiger-lily;
A mail-box mouth was filled with teeth;
Leaning against this was a wreath;
Approaching was a willy-willy.
He’d called the opus “Passion’s Woe”;
Woeful it was —and that’s not
kidding !
Supreme his optimism, though;
He knew there’d be the keenest bidding
For this great masterpiece. My quiz
Reflected all my strong derision :
Had inspiration, then, been his ?
A light shone o’er that “artist’s” phiz.
“Rather, you’d say,” quoth he, “a vision.”
“Like supernatural ones, I s’pose,”
I probed, then, my sarcasm restraining.
“Good heavens, no,” he said. “Not
those !
The ones I get are entertaining.
They come to me quite easily;
For art-ideas they’re very handy.
It’s wonderful the things you see
After you’ve had a midnight spree
On tripe - and - onions, beer - and -
brandy !”
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
For its second Stratford Shakspearian
Festival in Toronto (first was last year s)
Canada gets for stage- and production-
manager a chap with the good old Eng-
lish monicker of Tom Brown he hails
from Adelaide. In the category of the
McKerns, Michells and Finches who ve
made their young mark overseas, Brown
left Adelaide University Theatre Guild
for Britain in 1947 ; to start by observ-
ing stage-directing at Covent Garden and
with the Young Vic and end as stage-
director of the Old Vic, where he will
finish “Coriolanus” before going to
Canada. Headed by James Mason, the
company is due for an eight-weeks
season at Stratford, a small town outside
Toronto. Brown is 29.
• O
Still tough and vigorous. Old Digger
and veteran cricketer Bert Kortlang
joined a team of aborigines in a boomer-
ang-throwing display during Perth’s re-
cent Labor Day sports. Bert it was who
many years ago threw a stone right
across the Virginian River, Rappahan-
nock (U.S.), just to prove that the story
of a similar feat by George Washington
could have been true. Kortlang has been
living in Perth since he arrived there 20
years ago to put Westralian baseball on
the map.
• •
Topgans will specially like the quiet
and cultured voice of their new Judge
of the Supreme Court —David Blair
Hunter, hereunder judged. On final A.I.F.
leave when Wilhelm gave up, in New
Guinea (legal corps) when Hirohito had
his shot, Hunter was born at Sydney’s
Dawes Point, and educated in London,
OFF TO TONGA
Berlin, Honolulu and Sydney—father
being in those days a Commonwealth
immigration officer. Matriculated at
London University, law-degree’d at Syd-
ney’s, the new judge has been at the
N.S.W. Bar for a bit over 30 years, prac-
tising mainly in local-government law and
equity. Surf’s his solace, in which he
should be able to indulge a few steps
across the coral strand from his new
court.
• •
“D.R.”: Headmaster N. S. (“Boss”)
Connal, of Toowoomba (Q.) C. of E.
Boys’ School, is now en route, per Strath-
naver, for Colombo and his first long
holiday in 44 years of pedagogy. Boss —
a nickname that has clung with the
tenacity of high regard for the 25 years
of his unbroken command at C. of E.
Boys’—became so engrossed in school-
mastering when he started at Chatswood,
Sydney, in 1910 that he absent-mindedly
forgot to take a break. So Old Boys, in
recognition of his jubilee year at the
school, dubbed-in when his back was
turned and raised the wherewithal to
pack him off to Ceylon (“Where I’ve
always wanted to go”) with his umbrella
and a copy of Doctor at Sea. A big man,
and a beloved one, he has the gentility
of a “Chips” and the forthrightness of a
centre-forward, which, mixed together,
with a dry wit and a colloquial phrase
thrown in, give to his after-dinner
speeches verve and wisdom of unique
vintage. Among boys he has the touch
of magic ; among men the handshake of
a good bloke. Rising 60-odd, he
taught at Maryborough Grammar (Q.)
for four years and at Brisbane Grammar
for 13 before bringing his master’s-gown
to the Downs city in 1929.
In Australia to discuss with Federal
Ministers matters connected with his
work as a member of the Legislative
Council of Papua-New Guinea, D. Barrett
had New Guinea in his blood when he
was a clerk with Shell 17 years ago and
applied for a transfer to the island.
Turned down, he got there all the same
by becoming a copra- and cocoa-planter.
After success at that he was elected to
the Legislative Council up there ; politic-
ally he looks after 3000 Europeans, 2500
Asians, 500 mixed-bloods and 150,000
natives. His territory comprises New
Britain, New Ireland, Bougainville and
Manus—4o,ooo square miles.
• •
“Ek Dum’s” hearty welcome;
Major-General lan Ross Campbell, D. 5.0.,
will be the first commandant to take the ances-
tral name of the original settlers of Duntroon
back to the Royal Military College—his office
will be in the original Duntroon homestead.
He himself is a Duntrooner of the passing-
out vintage of 1922, a regular soldier of more
than ordinary intellectual parts and background.
All his service has been with the Australian
Forces, save for a year (1925-26) on the Indian
frontier. He passed the Staff College, Camber-
ley, in the middie-’thirties, went overseas as
brigade-major, 16th Brigade, and commanded
2/5 and 2/1 Battalions in early Libya, Greece
and Crete, where he met a gallant Waterloo,
after which he spent the rest of the war as a
p.-0.-w., a fact which robbed his brilliance
of its real chances.
He came home, after a period as commander
of the reception-group for p.-0.-w. in Lon-
don, as Deputy-Adjutant General, then was
Director of Military Training, and, finally,
Administrative Commander of Kure Base, in
Japan, during the crucial and final stages of the
Korean War. He returned to become bead of
the Australian Staff College at Queenscliff, Vic-
toria.
Far from being a typical soldier of the
traditional type, he is well read, loves philoso-
phical or literary discussion, and is, as well,
an all-round games athlete who should be good
for Duntroon’s cricket, Rugby and tennis. He
goes to a Duntroon which he will scarcely
recognise, thanks to the development which
has taken place in its amenities under his pre-
decessor, Major-General Ronald Hopkins,
under whom it has acquired new engineer-shops,
cadet-barracks, swimming-pool, cinder-track,
tree-planting schemes and facilities undreamed
of in 1922.
• •
To judge Shorthorns at the next Sydney
Royal Easter, H. Gordon Munro,
one of N.S.W.’s, and Australia’s, most
successful Aberdeen-Angus breeders ; he
has himself carried off championship
awards in pretty well every capital city.
Australian top-price of 1400 guineas was
paid for his Booroomooka Verity at last
year’s Sydney Royal, while a record 2000
guineas was brought by his Booroomooka
Splendid, also a Sydney Show champion.
Breeder, as well, of Shorthorns and Poll-
Shorthorns, he owns Booroomooka stud
at Bingara, Ingledale station at Bundarra,
manages his father’s Keera station at
Bingara, and supervises, for his brother,
the Poll-Shorthom stud in the same area.
He finds a moment to help direct several
pastoral companies.
• •
Notched his half-century in minister-
ing, the Rev. John Calder, of St. Peter’s
Kirk, North Sydney. Grounded at Aber-
deen University and ordained in Edin-
burgh, he landed in Sydney in 1912 and
was away shortly afterwards, padre of
the 34th Battalion in France, where he
collected a reputation for manly kindli-
ness as well as a “mention.” He has
the longest service of any Scotchbyterian
clergyman at present in charge of a Ma
State parish.
• •
On Sunday next C. W. Strutt is due
to sail from Sydney after five fruitful
years in Australia as agricultural adviser
to the U.K. High Commissioner. During
his stay he has seen practically every
pastoral and agricultural area, written a
series of reports on our food-production
and -prospects and given an astonishing
amount of help to C.5.1.R.0., the De-
partment of Commerce and Agriculture
and thousands of land-holders. He
secured his B.Sc.Agric. at Wye Agri-
cultural College (which is associated with
London Uni.) in 1928, took a lecturing
job there, then got a better as technical
adviser to a business firm with the object
of paying-off the cost of his degree. After
three years he had paid what he owed,
saved £5 and on that got married. Early
experience included wheatfarming in
Canada, visits to the Continent, and, after
the war, research at Aberdeen and Cam-
bridge. In Australia his major impres-
sions are of the role freighter-aircraft may
play in opening-up the north, and the
work by C.5.1.R.0. on soils and trace-
elements. His successor is Tom Creyke,
a dairying specialist whose record
includes a dairying survey of Italy for
F.A.O.
After training and experience in refiner-
ies pretty well all over the oil-bearing
world —from the West Indies, Texas and
California, to Rotterdam and Suez —Roy
Dallas Crook comes back to Australia,
manager of Shell’s new refinery at Gee-
long, opened by the Governor-General
last week. Born in Adelaide, Crook
joined his present show in 1938, by 1942
was in Suez with Anglo-Egyptian Oil-
fields, whence a good deal of his product
went into the oil-tanks of Cunningham’s
Mediterranean Fleet, as well as into the
Churchills, Matildas, Shermans and such
of that area. He reckons he’s now got a
dream job, the Geelong plant being brand-
new from the word go, not grown up with
continual, hard-to-manage, additions. In
full production it will meet almost one-
third of Australia’s present petrol needs.
• •
Much research has filled the working
life of F. L. Shier, now, at 50, Westralian
Agricultural Department superintendent
of wheatfarming. Joined the department,
cadet, in 1922, graduated in agricultural
science from the Westralian University
three years later, he has had among his
research fields fat-lamb production,
sheep-husbandry and animal-health,
establishment of subterranean clover in
the wheat belt and development of “light”
land. He also teamed with Dr. T. C.
Dunne, the department’s chief plant-
research officer, in establishment and
management of the Esperance Plains
Research Station, operating since 1949.
• •
Australian Lincoln bomber-crews in
Malaya will find common ground with
Lieutenant-General Geoffrey Bourne,
new G.0.C., Malaya—he was recently in
command of the 16th British Airborne
Division, and at the end of the Hitler
business was with the Ist Airborne Corps.
The new man can also claim common
ground with the area —he having had the
sth Indian Division in Java after the
war and for two years from 1947 headed
the British Services Mission to Burma.
After that, boss of the British sector of
Berlin, now of Eastern Command in
Britain, he takes over from Sir Gerald
Templer in April. He’s just over 50, and
son of a colonel.
• •
On holiday-tour round Australia’s
fringe—from Hall’s Creek, via Derby,
Broome, Pfcrth, Norseman, Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton, Townsville, and thence north-west
via Julia Creek and Newcastle Waters to
Wyndham and back to Hall’s Creek —
one of North Australia’s best-known and
toughest open-range cattlemen, Tom
Quilty, halted his 7000-mile progress to
look up a few old friends in Sydney,
whereupon artist Such roped him in.
Holder of two million acres in the Kim-
berleys, normally grazing 30,000 head of
Shorthorn cattle, Quilty, at 66, still runs
the camp on Springvale station and
supervises the management of his two
other stations —Bedford Downs and
Landsdown, on either side of the Durack
Range. The cattleman says drought con-
ditions have prevailed throughout the
Kimberleys over the past three seasons.
Major losses have been breeders and
DOWN FROM THE DURACKS
calves ; fat-cattle turn-off has been below
normal. But he thinks the present season
will be better “if we get another five
inches on top of rains which have been
good and general.” Holder of the famed
T.Q.2 (“take-you-too”) cattle-brand, in-
herited from his father, Tom Quilty is
now planning the introduction of Zebu
blood to his herd—he reckons he might
live to see the T.Q.2 on yet another breed.
At Minj, 5000 ft. up in the western high-
lands of New Guinea, Dutch and Aus-
tralian directors of medical services and
other top-flight malarial-control and
public-health men from Amsterdam and
Dutch New Guinea lately met in the first
of a series of talks aiming at unreservedly
pooling knowledge and co-ordinating
methods of malarial control. Artist
Lusby, also up that way, dropped in and
put under the pencil John Gunther, chair-
man of the talks, which coincided with
UP AT MINJ
the opening of the new Malarial Control
School at Minj. A product of The King's
School and Sydney University, now lean
and browned, Gunther has been in the
islands pretty well all his medical life
since he left Sydney Hospital. Firstly in
the Solomons, with war he joined the
R.A.A.F., and, in charge of a tropical-
research field-unit, produced much of
what the services know of malaria and
scrub-typhus. Since 1946 he’s been
Director of Public Health in Papua and
New Guinea,
• •
“Jock”: Norman Noss, president of
the N.S.W. Bowling Association, knows
the game from mat to kitty, both as
player and administrator. He first
“rolled ’em” at Quirindi in 1923 ; became
the club’s first singles champion; vice-
president at Nowra and delegate to the
South Coast and Tablelands Association ;
secretary of Tumut club and three times
district champion; club president at
Tumut and twice singles champion; pre-
sident of Coogee in 1945. When at Tumut
—he is a Commonwealth Bank manager
—he was runner-up for the State-singles
title. In the 15 State matches in which
the pres, has appeared as third and skip,
he has lost once.
• •
Landed in Melbourne, H. R. Harmer,
managing-director of the world’s largest
stamp-auctioneers—he’s the man who put
Farouk’s collection under the hammer,
netting £116,000 for it. Now 80, Harmer
started his own first stamp-album when
he was twelve, his father having started
philatelising two years after the first
postage-stamp in the world was issued —
the famous Penny Black, 1840, The firm
has an annual turnover of a million.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 42, in Melbourne, Francis Reed Officer,
a member of the noted Tasmanian and Victor-
ian pastoral family and managing-director of
D. G. Officer Pty., Ltd. He saw service in the
Middle East with anti-aircraft in the late war.
In Perth, at 89, Alexander Craigie, leader in
Scottish organisations since he crossed to
Westralia from Port Adelaide in 1897. One-
time president of the Perth branch of the
Scottish Union, he was a life vice-president
of that association and former president and
patron of Westralia’s Caledonian Society.
In Perth, at 48, Kay Hanneval Haagensen,
Deputy Prices Commissioner in the Northern
Territory from 1946 till ill-health caused ms
resignation a few months back. In War II he
was with the A.1.F., captain.
In Sydney, at 74, Hugh Morpeth Wragge,
former M.L.C., and solicitor of Gunnedah and
Sydney. His public works included a keen
interest in New England University College,
Armidale.
In Melbourne, at 65, Victor Edward Gordon,
connected with wool for close on 40 years,
many of them as head wool-valuer and -advise
to William Haughton and Co. Associate-
director of the company at the end, and a
director of Port Phillip Mills, m War II
took his knowledge into a high post on tn
Central Wool Committee.
At 85, at Winderadeen (near Collector,
N.S.W.), George Armstrong, who, prior to ms
retirement to that famed grazing property, wa
a noted gynaecological surgeon m Sydney, an
honorary to Sydney Hospital for 20 years an
for long the same for two women s hospdaC
A graduate of Melbourne University (189 ), he
was the senior elder of St. Stephen s Pies
Church, in Sydney, and on the fogJSg
council of Scots College. H»s s n °"’,^ lexaade
Armstrong, is a Legislative Councillor.


LOST PROPERTY OFFICE
GREAT FUN-WHILE IT LASTED


ABORIGINALITIES
YI/TLAT country in, the world has such
a lucrative pest as we have with
bunny? Apart from such angles as city-
dwellers paying 3s. 6d. for one solitary
carcass and fixe profits of local hat-
manufacturers, it would be an eye-opener
to see the annual figures chalked-up by
exporting. I recently watched a com-
paratively small outfit at work. Seven
men were skinning and packing 4000
rabbits a day, five days a week. And
that works out at money. In addition, of
course, there is the rake-off from the
skins. On top of that a fertiliser-manu-
facturer pays £2 a ton for the legs, tails,
etc. And the heads are stacked in 4gal.
drums as another sideline —fishermen
rush them at 2s. a drum. It has been
found that a rabbit-head, chopped in
two with the brain exposed, is without
equal as bait for lobster-pots.
“Macquarie.”
* ♦ ♦ «
“Sackfair”; An elderly acquaintance
has been breeding bullterriers for nearly
50 years. Recently one pup in a litter
was born deaf. The owner was not sur-
prised. “Occasionally that still happens,”
he told me. “When I first started to
breed ’em it was very common to get a
deaf pup. They’re throwbacks.” He
explained: “In the old days bullterriers
were bred as fighting dogs. Hearing was
a disadvantage: just when a dog was
squaring-up to his opponent somebody
could whistle sharply. The dog might
prick up his ears, turn towards the sound
and in would leap the other dog. To
prevent that breeders made the pups deaf
by puncturing their eardrums with red-
hot needles. In time all bullterriers were
born deaf. If has taken the best part of
a century to restore their hearing.” Mark
Twain may have had such things in mind
when he wrote: “Man is the only animal
that blushes —or has reason to.”
• * » •
“Warrabulla”: Our Westralian town-
ship’s race-meeting had been remarkable
for the failure of the favorite in the Cup
—not, it was whispered, because of the
strength of the opposition but because of
his rider’s arm. The owner, a large and
warlike Irishman, had already flattened a
couple who’d whispered too loudly, and
was filling himself with whisky in what
the tactful regarded as an attempt to
soothe the sting of defeat. Wavering to
the bar beside him came a long thin wisp
aptly called Reedy, who had one thing
only on his beer-clouded mind: why had
his friend Brian “pulled” such a fine
little horse? Brian stretched out a great
hand —and carefully saved Reedy from
collapsing on the brass rail. Again came
Reedy’s charge—which Brian politely
denied; and again Reedy asked and
received each time a polite answer instead
of the fist in the face we were all expect-
ing. Then Reedy passed out cold, Em-
boldened, perhaps, by Reedy’s immunity,
a stockman down the bar asked the same
question, and also passed out cold, beside
his two mates, while Brian stood over
the trio and inquired if there was any-
body else in the bar with any questions.
There being none, he carried Reedy up to
bed —and left us pondering the code that
says you can’t hit a man when he’s full.
* * * *
“Paddy”: It was milking-time when I
dropped in. Reg had his head in the
roan’s flank, and by
his amiable answer to
my greeting I knew
he had been at the
rum he kept at the
bails “just in case of
accident.” Across
the floor a white rivu-
let of milk ran from
the bottom of Reg’s
bucket, I pointed it
out. Reg beamed
alcoholically. “Thash
okay,” he said. “The
fashter I milk the
quicker I catch up
on it.”
* * *
“Shamuseen”: I
once tried a spot of
industrial psychology
in handling Torres
Straits native cargo-
laborers. I split my
party of cement-
loaders into two gangs, each out
of the other’s earshot. Then, after
moving gang-A to shrieks of laugh-
ter with a comic song, I moved to
gang-B and discreetly whispered that
the mirth of gang-A arose from the
idea of such a bunch of physical wrecks
as comprised B moving the cement in a
day. With B’s members thus stung to
anger and activity, I rejoined A with the
baseless information that B had decided
to shift their half of the cargo by mid-
day-smoke-oh and spend the rest of the
day fishing. After spending the morning
in successfully preventing any fraternisa-
tion between the rival gangs, I adjourned
for lunch, confidently expecting that the
entire job would shortly be finished. I
resumed supervision to find heated words
being tossed. It transpired that, after
ostensibly departing with gang-B for the
midday break, gang-A had sneaked back
and, with an energy I had believed im-
possible in them, had shifted back from
store-shed to jetty that part of the cement
lifted by B during the morning.
* * * ♦
“Jackstay”: Whenever an unexpectedly
large mass of water rears itself out of
the ocean and swamps a boat, as hap-
pened recently to a naval cutter in Port
Phillip (Vic.), or sweeps a few hundred
sunbakers up a beach, as at Surfers’
Paradise (Q.) a few weeks ago, it’s
promptly dubbed a “freak” wave, whereas
it’s a perfectly natural phenomenon.
Always likely to happen where two
separate wave-trains of slightly different
wave-length meet at a slight angle (each
originating from a different disturbance),
it’s simply due to the fact that a crest
in one wave-train coincides, at that par-
ticular moment, with the crest of a wave
in the other train. Then, instead of the
two trains partially cancelling each other
“Damn ’ee, get a move on —this edden the Royal procession !”
out, as they’ve been doing until then,
these waves unite and swell to big pro-
portions. Whether it happens every
seventh wave or 75th depends entirely on
the relationship between the wave-lengths
of the two trains.
#
“Wippegong”: A heavy, sticky day,
with great woolpacks building-up behind
the range, the only movement the striving
of a pair of blue-wrens to fill the maw
of a fully-fledged young bronze-cuckoo,
No matter what they brought, or how
often, the act of swallowing it never
seemed to interrupt that thin, wheezy,
grating whine; and they had to bring
every bite right up to the bare branch
where the parasite chose to sun itself,
“I'm told there was some sort of scandal in his family.”
Lightning flashed across the gully, and
the first big drops sent most birds darting
for shelter. Water in sheets followed —
and right out in the middle of it sat
one young bronze cuckoo, howling for
tucker. Most pampered solitary chicks
are the same; fuss round them, coddle
them, help them until long after they
should be independent and all they’ll do
will be to ask for more. Yet when harsh
times hit them they won’t have enough
sense to come in out of the wet.
• • * *
“Villefair”: There came a swish from
almost under my feet, and with the speed
of a rising quail, but minus the whir, the
small brown bird shot out of the long
grass and was gone in an instant, its low,
rapid flight bearing it beyond a slight
rise. Obviously the ground-lark had
left a nest; I found the neat little hole
in the earth, surrounded by long, dry
grass. There were three eggs of whitish
color marked with grey-brown splashes.
The sight of them left me thinking that,
compared with its size, the ground-lark
must surely fay a bigger egg than any
other bird —those eggs were as large as
a starling’s.
* * * ♦
“D.J.8.”: The returning boomerang
(B. 24/2/’54) isn’t used as a direct
killing-agent except in rare circumstances.
Owing to the kangaroo’s speed, guile
has to be employed in hunting him. This
is where the returning boomerang comes
in. While the Too watches its gyrations
members of the tribe advance on the
unsuspecting quarry with spear and
waddy,
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: The strange bird floating
effortlessly inside the breakwater at
Kiama (N.S.W.) was as big as a Muscovy
and duck-like in posture. The bill, how-
ever, was typical of a seabird—the kind
with a small downward turn on the
point. Majestically the bird drifted with
t he faint breeze, its neck arched back as
though to rest from the effort of holding
its head up. A gull, wheeling in passing
flight, banked and made a half-hearted
diving attack. Instantly the neck jerked
straight and a partly-opened beak faced
the attacker. The gull sheered off. Fish-
ing, I kept one eye on the big bird. All
the afternoon he drifted about the haven
with the tide and breeze, several times
putting his head under a wing and dozing,
but never once paddling. He was still
there at dusk. Cayley’s What Bird Is
That? identified him as the Snowy
Albatross. He was within his latitude —
between 60 and 30 south—but I’d never
seen his type before. Perhaps sickness
drove him in-shore to die—and there is
something saddening in the thought-
hut if he was merely taking a respite from
the huge seas which had been running for
more than a week, then I nominate him
as the bird that has really mastered the
art of complete relaxation.
* * * *
“Wollundry”: France, more than Eng-
land, is perturbed about the inroads into
its rabbit-population made by myxoma-
tosis (B. 10/2/’54). Reason is that the
rabbit there is big business —worth 200
million dollars annually; valuable as a
food and a boon to the fur industry. So,
while Australia kills him because he’s a
menace, France cossets him.
♦ * * *
A Word for Seals
A MALE seal is a bull, and a female a
cow; but a young seal isn’t a calf,
it’s a pup.
Realised the aptness of the title as I
watched a half-grown one playing with
kids in the surf at Esperance (W.A.) It
allowed them to feed it, and even palled-
up with some canine pups who hadn’t
half as much right on the beach as it had.
It had as much right there, too, and by
law, as the amateur fisherman who
resented its presence; but it had no
defence against a rifle bullet, so it died.
That killing was unnecessary. There’s
no doubting the damage seals can do
to nets, but there were no nets there;
anyway, seals don’t compete seriously
with professional fishermen or scare fish
away.
In zoos each seal eats about 71b, of
fish a day, and that’s sometimes taken
as a basis for computing the quantity a
colony consumes. But the figures are mis-
leading, Seals live mainly on squids, and
for a good part of the year they don’t
eat at all, but live on their accumulated
fat.
That’s during the breeding-season —
from mid-November to the end of Janu-
ary in Australia. The bulls arrive at the
rookeries and each takes over its own
territory. A few days later the females
arrive and the young are bora, in accord-
ance with Nature’s dictum that, however
they may take to the water later, seals
must be born on land.
Since the pups are suckled for some
months and spend that time at the
rookery, the cows can’t venture far afield
in search of food; and the bulls won’t
move far from the stretch of land they’ve
selected and, in many cases, fought for.
That reduces the amount of fish they
eat.
As for chasing the fish away, the Vic-
torian Fisheries Department, which
controls the bulk of the seals in Austra-
lian waters, found that some of the best
catches of fish are made 'within a few
miles of big seal colonies; and not long
back the largest shoal of salmon on
record in Victorian waters entered Win-
gan Inlet, past a seal colony established
at the inlet’s mouth.
KELMS.
OLD JACKY MUMBULLA
Old Jacky came round the big grey boulder,
and he carded his gunny-sack over his
shoulder;
his tribe and their campfires were long-time
dead;
my name King Jacky Mumbulla, he said.
His old overcoat was worn full of holes,
and he roasted a bandicoot over the coals;
he played on the gum-leaf a lost lonely tune,
and his dog like a dingo howled at the moon.
King Jacky travelled on the mountain track
through the tortured trees and he didn’t look
back;
the power in his dilly-bag grew strong as he
walked,
though the devils and a doolagarl behind him
stalked.
Old Jacky camped in a slab bark hut;
the fire leaped up and the door was shut
and a wild-woman pelted the roof with stones
for she wanted the marrow out of his bones.
He heard her call: “Jacky, Jacky! You there?”
and he heard her laugh through her long wild
hair.
When she opened the door Jacky sprang at that
ghost
but his tomahawk stuck in the thick door-post.
Old Jacky chased her into the night,
but he never caught her, run as he might:
to a hawk or a wallaby-doe she could change,
and he lost her far in the Black Gin Range.
King Jacky travelled on the mountain track
with a kangaroo-tail in his old gunny sack.
He went where the smoke-blue sunlight steals
through the pale mauve gums with his dog at
bis heels.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


AS a country ped. I’ve boarded at lots
** of cockies’ establishments and have
never considered myself particularly fussy.
But I’ve given notice to quit at the end
of the week. It’s bad enough to have
two young parrots fluttering round the
kitchen during Sunday’s dinner, but
when one lands on the rim of your cup
and stirs the tea with its tail and you’re
not even offered another one I reckon
it’s time to pack-up.—“Dascus.”
♦ * * *
“Sebak”; Before he leaves the road at
the camping-area on the south-side of
Crooked River at Gerroa (N.S.W.) a sign
warns the visitor: “Notic Do Not Wast
Water.” If he is a motor-cyclist he will
heed another sign: “Fee For Mota Bikes
2/-.” Should he intend to erect a tent
he would do well to observe the strict
injunction: “Ropes Must Not Be Tide To
Gards.” And there’s a really ominous
ring in the notice attached to a small
tree bordering the adjacent bush:
“Persons Cuting Timber Will Be Delt
With,”
♦ • ♦ *
“Bass”; Can’t agree that gelignite (B.
17/2/’54) gets dangerous with age. I’ve
used sticks that had been lying around
for years. Gelignite is simply an amount
of nitroglycerine which for safety in
handling has been absorbed in a porous
solid such as diatomaceous earth. It’s
detonated by strong shock. If that gelig-
nite is soaked in water the solid disinte-
grates and releases the nitroglycerine,
which is far touchier in its free state. In
that condition gelignite is dangerous. It’s
equally dangerous when it’s frozen. Then
the n.-g. forms into crystals which may
impinge on each other and cause detona-
tion by friction. But, provided it’s been
kept in a dry place and isn’t frozen, age
shouldn’t affect it. I’d advise “Columba”
to remove the gelignite from the medi-
cine-chest, handling it with the care to
which explosives are always entitled, and
place it where it won’t be in the way or
get bumped.
* ♦ ♦ «
“Eurimburra”: On the same highway
as “Another Gumsucker’s” (B. 10/ 3/ ’541
is another house with the single corru-
gated-iron, and probably the most his-
toric of the lot. This is Cooma Cottage,
near Yass, Hamilton Hume’s last home.
Although the house is occupied, the iron
is almost the best part of it to-day. The
explorer died in 1873, so that would make
“Shake it up — I've got a job to do!”
the roof over 80 years old. His nephew,
Andrew Hume, managed the original
grant, Humewood, plus what he added to
it, until his Uncle caught him racing
horses under an assumed name (his sec-
ond “offence”) and booted him. Andrew
went to Rye Park, where he founded the
once-famous Everton stud on what his
uncle gave him as a sort of parting-gift,
The explorer had been breeding for some
years prior to 1855 from Raby ewes
joined with imported Saxon-Merino rams.
Hamilton Hume,, although, like most
men of his station and time, a keeper of
good horses, detested horse-racing, and
pride never permitted the breach between
uncle and nephew to be healed.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Not only the early settlers on
the N.S.W. Illawarra coast appreciated
the euphony of aboriginal names (B.
24/2/’54). There are some beauties along
the Birdsviile track, too. In a string come
Muloorina, Dulkaninna, Killalpaninna,
Kopperamanna, Oorowillanie, Munger-
annie, Kalamurina and Mirra Mitta.
Sometimes the names are bigger than
the places, which are often abandoned
stations nearly buried in sand-drift.
Scattered through the area are Kanuwau-
kaninna, Murdawaddina, Kallikoopah and
Toopawarrinna; capping them. Lake
Noodlawandracooracooratarraninna and
the Diamantina waterhole called Warra-
warrapirralellyullamalullacoopalunnie.
* * * «
“5.8.”: On the edge of the spinifex-
desert country in nor’-west Australia,
not far from where the big deposits of
blue asbestos were found, I was riding
across a flat with a station boy when I
noticed a long line of spinifex which
had been uprooted and stacked to a
height of about 3ft. A wing had been
made at each end and small openings left
at intervals in the line. To my inquiry
about it the boy replied; “Wild feller
make-’um —catch emu.” Thinking he
was pulling my leg, I said, “Get
out! Emu walk over that easy.”
“No plurry fear,” he assured me. “Emu
lazy feller, ’e no cross-’um, ’e look-’um,
an’ den he walk along line look-’um for
hole in spinifex; when he find-’um an’
walk tru, wild feller-’e bin sittin’ along
behind hole in spinifex all day-’e jump
up finish ’im wit whockaburra [club],”
,** * *
“Harbel”; The squatterlike chap who
had given me a lift in his super-car
swore as he swung around a mob of
horses on the road. “Wouldn’t that
make you savage?” he said bitterly.
“That young fellow’s been all around this
“ He'll be an ideal public servant, that boy. He makes a
bonza cup o’ lea.”
district buying those horses, and now
he’s droving ,’em to the siding to be
trucked to Sydney. Not one of ’em’s
sick or old, but d’you know what he
wants ’em for? To slaughter for dogs’-
meat!” I wholeheartedly shared his
anger. A railway-crossing gate held us
up for a long time; the drover and his
potential victims caught up. My com-
panion couldn’t bottle-up his feelings
any longer. He leaned out of the win-
dow and opened out: “One day the
brainless Government of this country
will wake up to itself and jail you mur-
derers for butchering good horses to feed
useless mongs! ” he stormed. The young
fellow didn’t seem upset. “Are you a
horselover?” he asked quietly. “Yes, I
am,” declared the motorist. “Well,”
said the young fellow, “let me tell you
something. If youse fellers were still
driving horses instead of flash cars we
wouldn’t be able to buy a good horse at
a price it would pay us to slaughter him.”
For the remainder of the journey we
both tried to explain to each other where
the young bloke was wrong, but I had a
disturbing feeling that my arguments
sounded as weak to him as his did to
me.
THE CRYING CROWS
The morning is haunted with crow-cries,
with heavy wings and black bodies
circling above the limbs and green leaves
of the redgum in the top corner of the garden.
Crow-cries, what are you seeking here?
—There is surely no carrion for your consum-
ing,
not even my heart; whatever mulga-wire
informed you it was dead, and brought you
here,
was sent too late; my heart, oh, crying crows,
is alive again; your heavy wings and black
bodies
must drift back unfed to the lonely hills.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
NORMAN THE MUD-CRAB
keeps crabs. He has
weighed and measured, and we
have eaten, more than two thousand
mud-crabs since the hobby seized him.
It is possible that, apart from the recog-
nised experts, no one knows more about
crabs than Grandpa does. At one time
he corresponded with a crab-fancier in
the Philippines who kept a crab-farm.
Since the Japanese attacked that country
no word has come from him; perhaps it
never will.
At first Grandpa marked crabs and
r eleased them; locals who caught them
returned the empty shells to check their
movements. They move quite a lot.
In dry weather, when the water is salt,
they go upstream to the Big Lake; three
days before set-in rain they are back,
How these mindless creatures know is
amazing.
A lot of marked crabs were caught by
visitors, or changed shells and lost their
markings, so Grandpa made some cages
and hung them in the saltwater at the
end of his jetty—only one crab to a cage,
because they fight—and set out to study
them. We all learned a lot.
That was when Norman joined us.
Lettered N/ he was with us so long he
received a name. Regularly fed, weighed
and measured weekly, he never became
friendly. No flicker of recognition
seemed to pass through the tiny knot of
tissue which served him as a brain. Not
only would he have bitten the hand that
fed him, lie would gladly have made a
meal of it, snapping his mighty claws,
which could chew-up a broom-handle.
Crabs do not seem to know affection.
The nearest to it was when Grandpa
hooked a large Mary crab on his line and
her mate, a big Tom crab, reached out
a big claw to pull her back and both
landed in the boat. That, though, may
not have been love, but stupidity. It is
against the law, here in Queensland, to
retain a female crab, so Mary escaped.
Mother crabs carry their eggs tucked
under their envelope-flap of a tail. One
small crab carried over a million eggs.
If they had all reached their mother’s
size, the result would have been a pro-
cession of crabs sixty-four miles long—
a horrible thought.
In Grandpa’s cages lived a great many
crippled crabs. Crabs are easily upset;
not only do they lose limbs fighting, but
they shed them as readily as some lizards
cast off their tails. That is why, apart
from human reasons, locals always kill
crabs before cooking. A stab between
the eyes, and through the body destroys
the tiny brain and the large nerve-centre
in the body, which almost equals a brain.
One cripple had no claws and hardly any
legs. In the river it would have died ; in
the cage it thrived. It would edge up to
the food and nibble like a cockroach with
its tiny mouth parts.
About every fifty-seven days they
would moult. If it is true that crabs, like
insects, have only a limited number of
moults in a lifetime, they must have used
up most of them in a few months with
us. One crab has been known to have
lived forty years in an aquarium. In
our river, for many years people have
been trying to catch a veteran reported
to be as big as a washbasin.
The first shell to come off, Grandpa
brought up for the family to puzzle over
how the crab had squeezed through the
small split at the rear, leaving the inside
partitions of the limbs intact. That crab
died. Norman we found steadily eating
his old shell; as he ate, his paper-thin
new shell hardened. Many naked crabs
were eaten b y prawns and small fish;
Norman sat in the old tin supplied in
each cage, with his claws out, looking
fiercer than he could possibly have been,
and nothing touched him.
A Yank told Grandpa that in the U.S.
crabs are kept till they moult and then
the empty, flabby creatures are fried in
bread-crumbs. It is hard to imagine what
there is to eat on them. A newly-changed
crab has very little crab, inside a large
shell,
Norman grew new legs to fill the gaps,
A tiny bud grew on the old site. Inside
“Mat’s Mate,” of countless “Abori-
ginalities” pars, is well-enough known
by now to be one of the variety of writ-
ing monickers of the author of the
Delaney books —-Bant Singer —and
Delaney himself shares obvious simi-
larities of character with Mat, though
Mat’s notorious dislike for feminine
company certainly isn’t one of them.
Nor is his company altogether obnox-
ious to the other side, either ; though it
is for a while in one case early in the
latest Delaney and most emphatically
is so in another case before v the end.
Have Patience, Delaney —a winner in
fast-action fiction from the first sen-
tence to the last —will be the new
Bulletin serial, beginning on April
14.
w fi a t looked like cellophane was folded
a miniature limb. At the moult these
buds blew out to more than full size;
a lways larger than the other limbs and
emptier. Crabs usually increase 17£ per
cent, at each moult, as does the ordinary
grasshopper. While the skin is soft they
seem to pump themselves up with some
effort and end-up as a large, handsome
crab full of just water,
Norman ate well and grew amazingly,
Grandpa looked forward to having him
many years. Then we lost him. In the
words of Shaw’s Eliza Doolittle “Some-
body—pinched—him! ” It must have
been a visitor. Norman had just changed
his shell again. No local would have
bothered with him, knowing that such a
clean new shell would cover a hollow
fraud. The thieves would get no good
from Norman, and serve them jolly well
right.
JEAN DUNSTAN.


m
m
o"
iPS
mt
m
I
HAV strength
. out 6 »l OJS
mm
P5O/54
mammm
r 1
II
■■
a
m.
i
H
■
888
M
i
,
m
.^j
“ Tou asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes. Sir
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, BENSON<md HEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE LATE KING GEORGE VI
ẁ
ẃ
Benson & Hedges Ltd. are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are available
on the world’s most famous airways, including all routes served by the following:
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER LINOUS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM • Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON • AIR FRANCE
EL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES • SABENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS • TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTES ABROS PORTUGUESES • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
TMWIUH
Business Rollery Etc.
J. Gadsen Australia, Ltd.
'T'HE remarkable aspect of the
affairs of the J. Gadsen
packing - container business,
founded in Melbourne in 1879,
is the way in which great expan-
sion was financed out of profits.
A year ago ordinary capital
was apparently only £lOO,OOO
(there was also £234,500 in
redeemable 5 p.c. pref. capital),
whereas net tangible assets were
£1,451,449, after deducting
liabilities, deposits and pref.
capital, and before allowing for
any writing-up preparatory to
conversion.
Since June 30 last freeholds
have been written-up by £265,405
(to £485,970) and £265,000 of the
resulting surplus has been capi-
talised. Also, £850,000 of
deposits at call have been capi-
talised. Paid-up ordinary capital
just prior to conversion had risen
to £1,223,500 in £1 shares. Tne
new holding co. acquires the lot
for £3,000,000 in 6,000,000 10s.
ords.
On this basis net tangible assets
rose to £2,566,854, equal to
Bs. 7d. per 10s. share in the new
holding co.
But plant in the books at
£351,175 is estimated by W. G.
Goetz and Sons, Ltd., to have a
value of £1,929,069. Taking in
the difference of £1,611,560, net
tangibles per 10s. share rise to
13s. lid.—a total of £4,178,414,
against an ord.-capital total of
£3,000,000.
On the basis of the new capi-
talisation net profits over the past
five years have averaged 9.8 p.c.
During the term to June 30 last
the figure was 10.5 p.c. A 7 p.c.
div. is mentioned in the brokers’
memorandum. Tax-free reserves
total £834,041, equal to about
four years’ div. at 7 p.c. p.a.
The organisation makes plain
and printed cans, calico and
hessian bags, crown-seals for
bottles, canvas goods, Venetian
blinds and spring-rollers. The
business extends to each Aus-
tralian State, but in N.S.W. a
separate and independent public
co. (Gadsen-Hughes) operates,
except that “bags and wraps” are
still handled in the State by the
original co.
J. Gadsen Pty. holds shares in
Fish Canneries of Tasmania Pty.,
Ltd., Paper Sacks Pty., Ltd.,
Queensland Bag Co. Pty., Ltd,
and Wood Industries Pty., Ltd.
In 1940 the business of Russell
and McDonald Pty., Ltd., was
bought. This co. makes black-
iron and terneplate drums for
packing oil, honey, etc.
The memorandum of issue
says that since the war demand
for canned goods has been main-
tained and consolidated. Results
for the current financial year are
regarded by the board as “most
satisfactory.”
In the industry as a whole
there was a fall in turnover in
open-top and general cans in
1953. This was apparently
responsible for a drop in J.
Gadsen’s net profit from 13.8 p.c.
on present capital in 1951-52 to
10.5 p.c. in 1952-53. There has
since been some recovery, helped
by the increasing demand of the
paint industry. Sales of crown-
seals have continued to grow.
The main production period
in the industry is from October
to February, being closely related
to seasonal activities such as the
processing of fruit, meat and
vegetables, and to the increased
consumption of beverages in the
warmer months of the year. The
export market for canned foods
has become more competitive
over the past two years.
Of the 6,000,000 10s. shares
issued by the holcjing co. for the
J. Gadsen Pty., Ltd., interests,
1.500.000 are being offered at
par through Melbourne brokers
Vinton Smith, Dean and
Dougall, The offer is an attrac-
tive one, in view of the pros-
pective yield of £6 15s. 6d. per
cent, after payment of brokerage.
For the 10s. shares in Gadsen-
Hughes, Ltd., in a somewhat
similar type of business in
N.S.W., the market pays 12s. 6d.,
to obtain a yield of 5.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The new Mel-
bourne float has a wider spread
of activities than the N.S.W.
business, and on a revaluation
basis has a higher net tangible
backing per share. It also has a
larger tax-free potential. Dis-
closed earnings for the last com-
pleted term were very similar in
each case.
Bradford Cotton
An allotment of 198,468 £1
ord. shares at a premium of 12s.
is being made by Bradford
Cotton Mills to Melbourne
brokers J. B. Were and Son. The
proceeds of £317,549 will be
applied towards taking up
318.000 £1 ords. in Burlington
Mills (Aust.), Ltd., making
Bradford’s holding in the rayon-
weaying co. 551,000 shares out
of a total of 1,018,000 shares.
Bradford’s aim in raising the
extra capital by issuing it to a
broking firm at about 3s. under
the market is apparently to take
fullest advantage of the premium
available. Some shareholders,
however, might like a fuller
explanation. Certainly an issue
to shareholders would have
involved much more work in the
scrip department.
Bradford scrip weakened to
345. 6d. following the announce-
ment, and at that figure yields an
attractive 5.7 p.c.
Canada Dry
Canada Dry (Aust. and N.Z.),
Ltd., last week produced its
figures for the year to Sept. 30
last. A loss of £45,918 was
shown, which compares with a
loss of £38,233 in the previous
eight months’ (initial) trading. A
profit is not expected during the
current term, either, but the chair-
man hopes that by next summer
the period of losses should be
past. Conditions in the trade are
highly competitive, and Canada
Dry has a comparatively large
capital investment. It has a
battle ahead of it.
Minster Rayon
Minster, Ltd., of Dandenong,
Victoria, has acquired an addi-
tional 22,500 10s. shares in
Rayon (A/sia) Processing Co.
Pty., Ltd., making it a Minster
subsidiary. One f.-p. Minster
10s. share was issued for every
two Rayon 10s. shares. The
Rayon co. has a total issue of
45,000 fully-paid shares. It puts
a baize-like “nap” of rayon on
paper, leather, cloth or any
fabric that will take glue, with
a velvet or plush effect. The
result is to be seen on radio-
gram turntables, jewellery pack-
ages and some evening shoes, etc.
Minster, Ltd., controls West-
minster Carpets Pty., Ltd., and
Whitehead Chemical Co. Pty.,
Ltd, It is a forward-looking
enterprise, and the latest addi-
tion could be more important
than the capital involved would
indicate. Its 10s. shares are
around 235. Div.-rate has been
15 p.c.
Australian Oil and Gas
Though Australian Oil and
Gas, Ltd., is acquiring an author-
ity to prospect all available
Crown lands within 3150 square
miles of the Sydney Basin and
elsewhere, it has not, of course,
any intention of which The
Bulletin is aware of drilling on
the old Balmain Colliery site.
The affairs of the Natural Gas
and Oil Corporation were men-
tioned in B. 17/3/’54 merely to
record an instance where some
natural gas in the Sydney area
had already been tapped but had
not been commercially utilised,
and was, in fact, being sealed off.
A.I. and S. Joins In
Australian Iron and Steel, the
big B.H.P. subsidiary at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.), is seeking a
permit to prospect for natural
gas and petroleum over an area
of about 1,280,000 acres between
the Upper Burragorang Valley
and the Shoalhaven Valley,
immediately south of the
Kembla-Wollongong hinterland.
How serious are A.I. and S.
intentions isn’t known. A pro-
lific supply of natural gas,
if obtained, could be of great
value as a fuel in the steelworks.
Small “blows” of natural gas
have been common, but indus-
trially valueless, around the
Sydney area. Deep-drilling might
bring in a larger supply.
Clyde 6 p.c. Notes
The £750,000 issue of 6 p.c.
unsecured notes by Clyde Indus-
tries, Ltd., should prove attrac-
tive to those seeking a 6 p.c.
fixed-interest return. The appli-
cant can select a five-, seven- or
10-year term, with the yield the
same.
The business has shown great
expansion over the past decade,
paid capital now running to
£1,900,000, with reserves
approaching £1,000,000. Largely
engaged in engineering, the
Clyde group covers a multitude
of activities.
The money sought by the note-
issue will be mainly used to
reduce bank-overdrafts. Includ-
ing proceeds of the issue, the
backing for each £lOO of un-
secured notes amounts to £270
in tangible assets. Last year’s net
profit (before tax) was equal to
8.7 times the interest charge on
the notes.
Applications for the notes
may be made through stock-
brokers and the E., S. and A.
Bank.
Basement Rock
“Kerogen” on “basement”:
Casual references to “basement” are
on the increase in the journalistic
commentaries that now accompany
the local oil-search (B. 17/3/’54).
“Basement” is a loose term and can
mean almost anything. By modern
definition it is the name given to
any subsurface rock-formation in or
below which the chances for com-
mercial oil and/or gas are negligible.
Whereas, in the deeper basins that
rim the Californian side of the Pacific
Ocean, basement is well beyond the
depth-objectives of the most modern
drilling-plant and still well in the
younger formations; elsewhere it can
range from the older Palaeozoics
(metamorphosed or not) to the
ancient “shields.” Basement can also
be (as in the Queensland Shell case
and the former bore at Arcadia)
buried igneous-rock formations of
unknown thickness requiring great
courage and a long purse to pene-
trate. These Queensland andesites
are unpredictable as to depth and
location, but can be deduced by cor-
rect interpretation of geophysical
surveys. Going north from Arcadia
they appear at shallower horizons and
could, of course, be present under
Reid’s “dome” of Australasian Oil
Exploration.
It was the non-recognition of the
oil-possibilities of the older Arabian
formations that were reckoned “base-
ment” equivalent on the north-eastern
side of the Persian Gulf that lost the
vast Arabian oil potential to the
British-Dutch interests in the first
place. Respecting the now-greatly-
stimulated Australasian oil-search, a
very open mind should be the rule
when “basement” is under considera-
tion. Little is known about the
nature, depth and age of most of the
“basements” that will eventually be
reached here when the complete geo-
logic column is under study.
To my mind “basement”-attainment
and the “column” studies in this
continent’s deeper basins are subordin-
ate to the main purpose of the search,
which is, and must be for a consider-
able period, production. I therefore
favor a number of cheaper and
medium-depth bores of, say, 9-10,000 ft.
maximunj range going down
simultaneously rather than a few
basement-at-any-price and expensive
and long-dragged-out boring opera-
tions conducted with the heaviest and
dearest equipment.
It must be remembered that we are
now in the 19th-century U.S.A. stage
of exploration and development, and,
the world over, the shallower measures
have had to be tested and exploited
long before the deeper ones. Australia
is no exception.


<2Ae AU- BRITISH
gtiMort
From
25/-
to
65/-
£
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LTO. LONDON
Public Notice
I, ANNI KTEIN, of Hungarian nation-
ality, bom at Budapest, resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 11 Bur-
bong Street, Kingsford, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
STOP PAIN!
DOICIM
QUICKLY
EASES
ris*
jss
>25
RHEUMATISM!
No matter how much you’ve suffered in the past,
you can be sure that Dolcin will give you prompt
and prolonged relief from the pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout
Since Dolcin was perfected by American scientists
five years ago, thousands of men and women through-
out the world have proven its effectiveness. An
endless stream of letters of thanks
testify that Dolcin has given
prompt relief where all other
treatments have failed.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
ẅ
ŵ
, -
v.C\i
iismm;
m
W
r^s
» ■':
an
St
v
i@T7i
a®
m
■mm
m
m
?;-v
■(
a
on precision
D
WITH PUMPS OPERATING at
pressures of 30 p.s.i.,and delivery
rates through each hose being
above 200 gallons per minute
(900 litres per minute) the
operation of fuelling requires a
high degree of accuracy.
The trained BP man at the
controls is responsible for more
than merely opening and clos-
ing control valves. He is in
charge of a powerful machine
and he alone can ensure that it
is suitably controlled to meet
the particular requirements of
various types of aircraft. He is
ready, like all BP Aviation Ser-
vice crews, to act quickly and
with precision.
AVIATION
ẁ
SERVICE
5/53
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The Ideal Home Exhibition at
Olympia, despite the Arcadian
magnificence of some of our
best-known architects, has an
unfinished look. There is no
public-address system, with its
lively recorded music; and the
demonstrators, from lack of
means of amplification, are either
idle or hoarse. Bu at least the
sponsors, the “Daily Mail,” have
sufficient resources to overcome
the depredations of the Electrical
Trades Union, which effectively
brought about the cancellation of
Cruft’s Dog Show a few weeks
ago.
Another contemporary
instance is the number of
secondary industries that have
sprung up during the last few
years, presumably to mop-up the
surplus money in the wage-
earner’s pocket. This is not a
time when ideal homes are avail-
able to those of modest income.
Yet everything possible to
occupy leisure hours or to
brighten quarters that are far
from ideal is available in pro-
fusion. You can buy furniture-
kits to assemble and polish at
home, paint in oils by numbers,
save your energy by means of a
small rotary-ironer, and, with
cooking or handicrafts, obtain
all manner of elaborate short-
cuts to simple ends.
Of the more considerable
exhibits, one could not miss the
persuasive appeal of our largest
tobacco-manufacturers. Their
stand, though not offering free
samples, stressed the therapeutic
value of smoking, the “pleasure
it has given to millions of men
and women during the past 400
years,” and “the part it has
played in war-time and in
Antarctic exploration and in the
conquest of Everest.”
The improvement in the food
section is comforting. Not only
are free samples abundant, but
there are also intensive selling-
campaigns. Many countries are
represented. The Dutch, richly
attired for a Zuider Zee scene,
are pressing the sale of cheese
for all they are worth. And Aus-
tralia House, more reticently
metropolitan, has a self-service
counter for tinned foods.
Another section, so popular that
people queue for the next sitting,
offers free samples of Australian
wine with an informal lecture on
how to serve and drink it.
Controlled Enterprise
Television is an expensive
luxury. The £2 licence-fee (soon
to be increased to £3) is
inadequate to provide for the
service, which has to draw upon
the income intended for sound
broadcasting. The problem is
further complicated by the
Treasury’s reluctance to forgo its
bureaucrat’s dream —a neat and
simple instrument of taxation in
the shape of a 15 per cent, rake-
off of the licence-fees.
Consequently the double
burden forces the 8.8. C. into a
parsimony that is all too evident
in the attenuated programmes.
It was clear, from the earliest
days, that television overheads
would soar, ‘ and that the
increased costs would have to be
met indirectly. Although £lO,
say, a year is not an excessive
sum for a year’s entertainment
in the home, there are political
as well as practical reasons why
the viewer should not be asked
to pay.
It was this overriding circum-
stance, rather than the energetic
and by-no-means-disinterested
pressure of a group of back-
benchers, that forced the Gov-
ernment to recommend some
form of sponsored television.
Details of the proposed bill are
now before us. Reception of
them is cold and doubting. The
Government plainly has borne in
mind the warnings and strictures
of its well-informed critics and
laid down a code of commercial
behavior which, if it works, will
produce an alternative service as
innocuous and inoffensive as a
Sunday-school pageant. More-
over, as if to attain the ideal by
denying the objectionable (the
runaway horses of American
sponsorship), legislation will
ordain that “the tone and style
of the programmes is to be pre-
dominantly British.”
A new corporation, the Inde-
pendent Television Authority,
administered by an ostentatiously
disinterested board, will control
the programmes, selling “time”
as a newspaper sells space. A
high-minded rule-book will leave
the advertiser in no doubt as 10
what he cannot do and, if he
offends, he will be liable to a
fine of up to £5OO. If the I.T.A.
jibs, the Postmaster-General has
sweeping powers, both to pro-
nounce over past shortcomings
and to dictate future policy.
What riles pretty nearly every-
body is that the Exchequer
intends to vote £750,000 of the
taxpayers’ money every year,
and to grant loans of up to £2
million over the first five years.
This was not expected. People
merely imagined that extra sales
(and pennies and twopences on
the price) of the advertisers’
products would finance the
service.
Uncompromising Brass-hat
If any misgivings still persist
over the Old Vic’s intrepid
tenacity of purpose in bringing
to life the entire Shakspearian
repertory, they will surely be
dispelled after a visit to “Corio-
lanus.” During the last century
only eight revivals are recorded.
And the tragedy has acquired, of
recent years, a unique notoriety
by virtue of its being A 1 at the
Kremlin —the solitary concession
to the party line of a dramatist
who both amassed a tidy fortune
and bought himself a coat-of-
arms.
The forced contrivance of this
paradox is quickly apparent. It
happens that a particularly
furious mob overthrows a parti-
cularly nasty reactionary. But
the triumph is shortlived.
Another enemy of the people, no
less unpleasant and aristocratic,
indecently appropriates supreme
power.
So much for the reddest of
red herrings. What of the play
and its impact upon first impres-
sions? The development is slow,
prosy and overlong. Yet as soon
as Caius Marcius has sacked
Corioli and become Coriolanus
the seeds of drama, after labored
forcing, spring astonishingly to
maturity. A prescient sense of
doom pervades every word, and
the tragedy marches with classic
inevitability to a most poignant
finality.
Taken individually, these
Romans are punier than the
characters in the better-known
tragedies. Coriolanus is a lesser
general than Othello. He has
neither Hamlet’s sensibility nor
the poetry of his utterances. And
the ascendancy of his mother,
Volumnia, is pallid and ineffec-
tual when compared with that of
Lady Macbeth.
Yet, by underlining the drama
and wielding the players into a
corporate whole, Michael Bent-
hall’s production grows in
strength with every scene. The
final picture of Coriolanus lying
butchered and forsaken seems to
sum up the play in a tacit moral
—of the hurtfulness of arrog-
ance, the wages of treachery and
the futility of ruthless self-
aggrandisement. (And here, by
refusing to allow the corpse to
be carried off, in the manner of
Fortinbras-Hamlet, Mr. Benthall
has both defied Shakspeare and
improved upon him.)
Claire Bloom’s sweet, appre-
hensive wife is in good contrast
to Fay Compton’s battle-glorious
mother. Two other notable per-
formances come from Paul
Daneman (as the noxious
Volscian, Aufidius) and William
Squire as the family counsellor,
Menenius. The attempt to infuse
the inseparable Tribunes
(Laurence Hardy and Edgar
Wreford) with the common touch
does not come off. One looks
like Baron Hardup in a utility
toga, while the other suggests
that Old Adam has strayed from
the Forest of Arden. Richard
Burton is magnificently vocal
(from stage-whispers to shouts)
as Coriolanus, but altogether too
likeable and sympathetic for a
professional soldier whose
arrogance and snootiness
instantly antagonise the civilian
populace against him.


33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73.000,000.
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
YOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAQHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Industrial Acceptance Corp.
XXIRE-PURCHASE has always been
-*"*■ vaguely suspect by the public. The
suspicions are partly justified and partly
irrational. They are justified (1) on the
broad economic grounds that hire-pur-
chase, like any other form of credit, can
be inflationary in character (credit itself
is a very powerful force which always
needs careful supervision), and (2) that,
with things as they are, the rate of net
earnings of those engaged in the busi-
ness suggest that the cost of this class
of credit to customers could be
reduced and still leave shareholders with
handsome profits. On the other hand, so
long as h.-p., or any other type of credit,
is applied in the right way at the right
time it is not only useful but necessary.
The central bank has lost its hold upon
h.-p. credit and it is getting worried about
it.
1.A.C., one of Australia’s largest ven-
dors of consumer credit, finances a wide
range of durables bought under h.-p.
agreements, including motor-cars, trac-
tors, and other farm equipment, industrial
machinery, furniture, refrigerators and
sundry household appliances. The co.
operates in all States, enjoys strong con-
nections, including several large car-sell-
ing and furniture-retailing houses, and
owns three subsidiaries, largest and most
important of which is the Ajax Insurance
Co., which has been very helpful in pro-
viding funds for expansion of the parent
co.’s business.
One factor in the co.’s recent spectacu-
lar and very profitable growth has been
use of large amounts of cheap debenture
and deposit moneys. Another has been
rapid expansion of the economy under
exceptionally favorable conditions. At
December 31, 1953, debentures, fixed-
deposits and advances from subsidiaries
totalled £15,208,992 and shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
£5,420,577. The amount at risk under
h.-p, contracts was £23,714,027, which
exceeds advances of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank’s industrial finance depart-
ment as well as advances of one of the
Australian private trading banks.
With an extra £5,703,759 out on loan,
the board was able to show £379,323
more profit last term:
/ Dividends N To Ee- Ee-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 87,224 7* = 37,500 49,724 268,192
Special div., £136,611 ~ .. 132,581
Sundry additions, £120,838 .. .. 253,419
Share premiums, £150,000 .. .. 403,419
To special tax res., £86,031 '.. .. 317,388
1948. .215,598 12$ = 125,000 90.598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/off, £10,921 .. 397,065
1949. .270,823 5 12$ = 144,271 126,552 523,617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
1950. .396,161 5 12$ = 165,625 230,536 879,153
Share premiums, £400,000 .. ..1,279,153
1951. .481.450 5 12.9 = 218,750 262,700 1,541,853
Added contingencies res., £57,490 .. 1,599,343
1952. .762,690 5 15 =250,000 512,690 2,112,033
Tax overprovided, £15,881 .. ..2,127,414
Added contingencies res., £ll5O ..2,128,564
1958 1,142,013 5 18$ = 850,000 792,018 2,920,577
The £1,142,013 of profit claimed was
written after allowing £B2BB (down £1185)
for depreciation and £614,932 (down
£30,068) for taxation. It covered the pref.
div. (£25,000) and a juicy 74.4 p.c. on the
£1,500,000 of ord. capital actually
employed, compared with 49.2, 30.4, 33,
25.1 and 21.9 p.c. back to 1948. The div.
was lifted from 15 p.c, to 18| p.c., making
average distribution over the last six
years approximately 14 p.c.
The year’s combined net earnings of
parent and subsidiaries was £1,349,394
(up £539,657), which covered the pref.
div. and 88.3 p.c, on ord. capital
employed.
During the year £1,478,300 was added
to the debenture debt, the composition
of which is as follows:
j —- Amount
Maturing, Interest. Dec.,’s2. Dec.,’s3.
P.c. £ £
Short term ~ 3,572,400 5,884,100
Sl/3/’53 .. 4$ 2,976,500
31/10/’53 . . 4$ 450,800 444,300
31/3/’56 5 1,546,500
31/3/’57 ~ 4$ 500,000 499.700
81/8/’5B-’6O 5 603,400
£7,499,700 £8,978,000
At December 31 last the lot was costing
a wink under 4 p.c. as against 3.6 p.c. a
year earlier. Shareholders are to be
asked to lift the limit of debenture stock
from £9,000,000 to £12,000,000. Since
last term’s combined profit, plus deben-
ture interest, was equal to 11.8 p.c. on the
debenture and share capital and reserves
combined, the debenture and pref.
moneys are both contributing handsomely
to the pool for the ords.
Just before the close of accounts those
on the ord. register welcomed a call for
£500,000 of fresh share capital, especially
since it shared in the final 10 p.c. div.;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Eeserves .. 1,541,853 2,112,033 2,920,577
Debentures .. 5,459,400 7,499,700 8,978,000
Overdraft .. 99,820
Fixed deposits 2,346,055 2,142,925 2.975,646
Sundry
creditors* . . 1,989,651 2,620,028 3,873,102
Unearned income 1,816,615 2,217,892 3,171,825
Staff fund .. 42,780 57,302 64,203
Tax provision 510,665 620,967 , 648,686
Final divs. .. 112,500 137,500 212,500
£15,869,339 £19,408,347 £25,339,539
Freehold .. 2,600 2,600 2,600
Office equipment,
etc. .. 40,415 50,508 63,829
H.-p. debts .. 15,035,323 18,010,268 23,714,027
Shares subsids.,
etc. .. 778,075 778,075 1,118,075
Cash .. .. 12,926 566,896 451,008
£15,869,339 £19,408,847 £25,339,539
* Includes advances from subsidiaries, £3,255,346 at
December 31, 1953.
The increase of £1,253,074 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors was mainly
on account of advances from subsidiaries
(£3,255,346, up £1,130,300). These
advances and the debenture money have
compensated the co. for the official over-
draft tourniquet.
The risk in this type of business lies in
a familiar financial dictum—the dangers
of borrowing short to lend long. The
precise extent of the risk in this co.’s
case cannot be ascertained from the
co.’s published figures. As for the current
term, if it turns out to be a period of fight-
ing recession, then h.-p. will be held in
check mainly by the risk element.
At 16s. 3d. the f.-p. ss. ords., which
had dropped to 9s. Id. in 1952, return
5.6 p.c. on an 18i p.c. div. basis. The
£1 prefs. at 19s. 3d. yield 5.2 p.c. Net
tangible cover (parent’s accounts) is
£lO 16s. lOd. prefs. and 12s. 3d. ords.
Rosella Preserving
■DECAUSE Australia has lost its best
market (U.K.) for jams, owing to
steep rises in the cost of both sugar and
labor, prospects of Rosella making an
early new share-issue and/or of other
benefits have been pushed into the back-
ground for the time being. So the share-
market, which has always had a high
opinion of the co.’s scrip, shortened its
bid for the f.-p. 10s. shares from 31s. to
255. over the last 12 months. At the lower
figure the return is 5 p.c. on a 12 y p.c.
div. basis, with satisfactory long-term
prospects, subject, of course, to unex-
pected economic developments. Net
tangible cover is visibly 20s. lid. per
share —both fixed and trading assets are
known to be worth more than their book-
values.
The co. and its subsidiaries turn out a
wide range of high-grade jams, canned
fruits, condiments and a variety of other
tinned foods, etc., from three factories
in Victoria, two in N. S. Wales, and one
each in South Australia and Tasmania.
Paid capital, steady at £400,000 for the
dozen years to 1948, now stands at
£600,000. And at September 30 last it
had the support and assistance of £627,898
of reserves, after deducting £30,508 of
intangibles.
Over the last 34 years shareholders
have never failed to receive a div.,
the average being 11.2 p.c., highest
17£ p.c. for the three years to 1927 and
lowest 6 p.c. in 1931. Another feature of
especial importance in a manufacturing
concern is that the co. has provided its
operatives with the most modem plant
and equipment available, thus ensuring
efficient and economical production, and
so minimising the high-cost labor content
of the products.
And managerial efficiency doesn’t end
with production either. Owing to the
sharp fall in jam exports and high level
of stocks at the close of accounts in
1952, production had to be curtailed last
term, while stocks were worked down
and the overdraft reduced ; all with com-
paratively little effect upon declared net
earnings (down £4713):
Bosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Be- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Eeserves.*
1948.. 65,986 10 p.c. = 40,000 25,986 275,008
Share premiums, £47,706 .. .. 322,714
1949.. 82,301 12$ p.c. = 50,000 82,301 355,015
Share premiums, £2294 .. .. 857,309
1960.. 91,566 12$ p.c. = 62,500 29,066 386,375
Share premiums, £50,000 .. .. 436,375
1951.. 131,683 12$ p.c. = 68,542 68,141 504,516
Share premiums, £425 .. ~ 504,941
1952.. 154,089 12$ p.c. = 75,000 79,089 584,030
1963.. 149,376 12$ „ „ 75,000 74,376 658,406
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. 30, 1953.
The £149,376 of profit was 24.9 p.c. on
capital as against 25.6, 25.9, 18,3, 20.5,
16.5 and 16.5 p.c. back to 1947. So there
was no difficulty in maintaining the div.
at 12£ p.c.
There was a contraction of £90,451 in
gross profit (£627,401), reflecting a drop
in turnover and slimming of margins.
Including a generous £31,308 (up £780)
for depreciation and “ample” provision
for taxation, exes. (£478,027) were reduced
by £85,736,' So a tight hold was kept
upon controllable outgoings.
Stocks (in at cost or under) were
reduced by £306,355, while £270,531 was
lopped off the overdraft and the tax
reserve shrank by £120,150;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1-953.
Capital .. .. £599,112 £600,000 £600,000
Eeserves .. 504,515 584,030 658,406
Overdraft .. 556,590 286,059
Creditors, etc. .. 133,597 128,659 155,504
Tax provision ~ 260,387 216,484 96,334
Final div. .. 63,542 75,000 75,000
£1,561,153 £2,160,763 £1,871,303
Property .. .. 325,279 330,359 336,798
Plant, etc. ~ 119,430 137,105 134,185
Stocks ~ .. 723,095 1,456,436 1,150,101
Debtors .. .. 245,346 205,635 219,064
Cash, etc. .. 117,495 720 647
Goodwill, etc, .. 30,508 30,508 30,508
£1,561,153 £2,160,763 £1,871,803
The growth of £13,429 in debtors’ bal-
ances suggests that local trade held fairly
well. The improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£756,915) was £70,857.
It has been a quick, and thus far suc-
cessful, readjustment to altered trade con-
ditions. Stocks are still the dominating
feature of the accounts, and, in some
lines, are heavier than current demand
calls for. The co., however, is well-
equipped to stand up to competition. In
the export field the outlook for canned
fruits remains bright; but-unless the cost
of the sugar content of jams for export is
reduced, by subsidy or otherwise, recovery
of the overseas market for this product
seems unlikely.
Kauri Timber Co.
/CHANGES in economic conditions
which took place a couple of years
ago dealt the timber trade a severe blow
from which it is only now beginning to
recover. Most of the big milling and
distributing cos., of which this Kauri
one is the largest in Australasia, were
caught with heavy stocks, especially of
Baltic and southern European timbers.
Turnovers fell sharply following the con-
traction of credit and consequent easing
of activity in the building trade, and there
was some price-cutting in order to work
down swollen inventories and lighten the
debt to the banks and others.
Kauri’s profit came down with a rush
from £382,123 in 1951 to £170,276 for the
year to August 31, 1953, the slip being
£101,014 iri 1952 and £110,833 last
term;
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries.!
To Be- Ee-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
1949. .206,182 6$ 48,750 157,432 234.936
Beduction intangibles, £26,763 .. 261,699
Net reserve adjustment, £35,537 .. 297,236
1950. .233,236 5 8 81,250 151,986 449,222
To taxation, £8822 .. .. .. 440,400
Capital profit, £2624 ~ .. 443,024
Added intangibles, £92,109 .. .. 850,915
Beduction reserves, £40,617 .. 810,298
1951. .382,123 5 8 85,000 297,123 607,421
To taxation, £5311 .. .. .. 606,110
Capital profit, £3844 .. .. .. 605,954
Added reserves, £85,837 .. .. 691,291
Added intangibles, £366,225 .. 325,066
1952. .281,109 5 8 85,000 196,109 521,175
Tax overprovided, £35,977 .. .. 557,152
Fire insurance recovered, etc.,
£96,363 643,515
Net addition reserves, £87,500 .. 731,015
1958. .170,276 5 8 85,000 85,276 816,291
* After deducting intangibles, etc., now £876,384.
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
The 1953 profit of £170*276 was written
after allowing for losses in subsidiaries
totalling £26,441 (up £15,630) and setting
aside £204,808 (up £25,117) for deprecia-
tion and £246,913 (down £118,904) for
the taxgatherer. It leaves out of reckon-
ing the items interlined in the table, but
includes £53,600 earmarked for redemp-
tion of the pref. and debenture capitals.
Distributable profit was therefore
£116,676, or enough to pay the pref. div.
(£25,000) and show 12.2 p.c. on the
£750,000 of ord. capital as against 27
p.c. and 40.4 p.c. for the two preceding
years. So nothing had to be strained to
maintain the 8 p.c. div., and the entire
set-up at present suggests that the rate
of distribution is not likely to be
turbed for a while, at any rate.
The co.’s big freehold and leasehold tim-
ber stands are in New Zealand, Westralia,
Tasmania, Victoria and the Solomon
Islands. The island holdings are richly en-
dowed with excellent forests, mainly kauri
pine, for which there is a ready market,
the chairman says. Chief stumbling-blocks
have been, and still are, difficulties con-
nected with shipping and labor. The co.’s
mills and merchandising organisation are
scattered throughout the Dominion and
the Australian States, except N. S. Wales,
and there are plywood- and boxmaking-
plants in the Dominion and at Melbourne
and Brisbane.
Expansion, by absorption and other-
wise, has been rapid during ttie post-war
period, and has been financed mainly
from 5 p.c. pref. (£500,000) and 4 p.c.
debenture (£715,000) moneys, redeemable
during the periods 1955-69 and 1962-67,
respectively. At the close of last accounts
reserves for the redemption of pref.
(£100,000) and debenture (£108,907) capi-
tal totalled £208,907.
During the year stocks (in at cost or
under) were reduced by £513,532 and
debtors’ balances shrank by £44,714, while
£269,267 was clipped off the overdraft and
£450,686 off the amount corning to sundry
creditors, etc.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,009 £1,250,000
Eeserves . . .. 607,421 521,174 816,291
Outside interests.. 383,727 471,336 563,687
Debentures .. 400,000 715,000 715,000
Overdraft . . 592,677 2,763,490 2,494,223
Sundry creditors* 1,104,144 1,348,785 898.099
Inter-co. suspense 52,298 65,934
Final div. . . 37,500 87.500 37,500
£4,427,767 £7,173,219 £6,774,800
Properties ~ 834,675 996,097 1,207,434
Plant, etc. .. 819,745 1,110,629 1,056,184
Shares in other cos. 108,222 101,547 84,502
Stocks , . . . 1,470,281 3,533,072 3,019.540
Book debts .. 1,084,645 1,812,945 1,268.231
Inter-eo. suspense.. 20,895
Cash. etc. .. 110,249 118,929 118.014
£4,427,767 £7,173,219 £6,774,800
* Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks and the overdraft continue to
dominate the financial structure, and


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.L
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Consultants & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445, BU 3446, BU 1409.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
QjfUtuiv
1
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
78 Parramatta Boad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friend
WILL MRSL MYRTLE ADELAIDE
MENSER (formerly FUCHS, nee SPAIN),
late of U.S.A., or any person knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with
L’ESTRANGE & KENNEDY, Solicitors,
of 291 Bridge Road, Richmond, Vic.?
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE;
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES; BU 8025 AND BW 1078
L. P. THORPE. MANAGER.
ffli
&
Clyde Industries Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 30th September, 1898)
REGISTERED OFFICE: 90 Ocean Street, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of £750,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
0
Currency • • . FIVE, SEVEN or TEN YEARS
(At the option of applicants, specified at time of application )
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Notes mentioned herein.
•J~ry 7
///*' / //,//
C« IK AV V ClyL L V
MILE ATTEMPT
_yk AC //N/ 4 5 \ T;aa£ iUNVKItf,
-
/
'/ys/s
5
SX
s>zl
Ei
, •>-*
r
p"
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K. 8.154.18
further reduction of each is
likely to occupy the board’s
attention during the current
term. When the books closed
there was 265. Id. belonging to
the bank and sundry creditors,
etc., for every £1 owned by
shareholders in the business.
Trade has continued to pick
up since the close of accounts,
and prospects of a better show-
ing at next balance are en-
couraging. At the moment the
undertaking looks like a steady
8 p.c. proposition with good
long-term prospects. The mar-
ket prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
28s. (28s. 6d. a year ago) to
return 5.7 p.c. at the current
rate of distribution. Net tangible
cover is 41s. 9d.
W. H. Paling & Co.
/'ANE of the oldest music and
musical-instrument houses
in Australia, Palings won some
attractive returns before sound-
films and the radio cut into the
business. Then, to keep capital
employed, the co, turned to
refrigerators, vacuum-cleaners
and radios, which are sold
largely on a t.-p. basis and now
account for a good slice of the
turnover.
The public became interested
in 1934, and for the four years
to 1937 divs. averaged 3.8 p.c.,
followed by a three - year
drought, and then distributions
averaging 5.7 p.c. for the next
six years and 11.1 p.c. for the
four years to 1950. An accu-
mulation of cash, etc., during
the half-dormant conditions
which war brought to the trade
enabled the management to take
prompt advantage of the strong
trade revival generated by the
post-war boom.
In 1950 the co. bought all the
shares in G. J. Grice, Ltd., its
Queensland competitor, which
has continued to give a good
account of itself, though it paid
no div. to the parent until the
1953 term. The deal was on a
net tangible basis, and the price,
£78,000-odd, paid in scrip. In
the following year the board
considered the position good
enough to hand out £155,749
of bonus-scrip. At the same
time a new cash-issue, which
brought in £103,000-odd, was
made to provide for all-round
expansion of business. Paid
capital thus shot up from
£389,321 in 1949 to its present
figure of £726,763.
The boom and the parent co.’s
profits both reached their peak
in 1951, when the div, was
lowered from 11.1 p.c. to 10
p.c. following the bonus-issue.
Turnover fell sharply in 1952
owing to the change in economic
conditions, and there was an
abrupt contraction of over 51
p.c. in net earnings, and the
div. was cut in halves, reducing
it to 5 p.c.:
To Re- Re-
Oct.. Profit. r~ Dividends—, serves, serves.
£ P.c. £ £ £
’49..55.661 11.1 = 43.258 12,403 176,655
’50.. 77,437 11.1 „ 48,672 28,765 205,420
To bad debts provision, £6757 198,663
Revaluation assets, £170,653.. 369,316
Reserves capitalised, £155,749 213,567
’51..90,709 10 = 60,434 30,275 243,842
To bad debts prov’n, £lO,OOO 233,842
’52.. 43,814 5 = 36,338 7.476 241,318
W. H. Paling and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidat’n, £28,470 269,788
’54..53,618 6 =43,606 10,012 279,800
Last term’s combined net earn-
ings is not comparable with
previous profit figures in the
table. Also, the consolidated
accounts, first of their kind, in-
clude 16 months’ trading for
the subsidiary.
Declared net earnings of each
co, for the last three years were:
1951. 1952. 1953.
G. J. Grice .. £16,354 £12,043 £17,423
Parent co. .. 90,709 43,814 36,195
Total . £107,063 £55,857 £53,618
On an annual basis the Grice
co.’s profit for 1953 was equal
to £13,067, making the total
figure £49,262 (down £6595), or
6.8 p.c. on the parent’s paid
capital as against 7.6 p.c. and
14.7 p.c. for the two preceding
years. Encouraged by the re-
vival of turnover toward and
since the close of accounts, the
board lifted the div. from 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures for 1953
are also not comparable with
those for previous years:
Consoli-
dated
Parent Figures,
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital 726,763 726,763 726,763
Reserves . . 233,842 241,318 279,800
Overdraft . . 93,572 106,810 65,630
Tax provision 97,490 21,271 32,651
Creditors . . 158,386 149,250 227,993
Final div. . . 34,609 36.338 43,606
1.344.662 1,281,750 1,376,443
Freeholds .. 309,950 309,950 356,158
Plant, etc. 19,109 23,733 31,433
Subsidiary
interests . . 79,221 89,814
Stocks .. 430,522 482,137 489,209
Debtors . . 496,036 371,633 494,374
Cash, etc. .. 9,824 4,483 5,269
1.344.662 1,281,750 1,376,443
Actually stocks were worked
down, the overdraft reduced and
debtors’ balances increased.
When the books closed more-or-
less liquids exceeded liabilities
(including tax provision and
final div.) by £618,972; and
there was only ss. lOd. coming
to the bank and sundry credi-
tors for every £1 belonging to
shareholders in the business.
Trading conditions favor a
better showing for the current
term.
The f.-p. £1 shares, which fell
from a peak of 255. 9d. in 1952
to a low of 15s. 3d. in 1953,
recently fetched 17s. 3d. to re-
turn 6.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div,
basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 275. Bd.
\
Peninsular Tin, N.L.
Operating at Langsuan (Thai-
land), the co.’s 160,000-ton-a-
-month dredge handled more but
poorer ground last term. At
the same time cost rose sharply,
due mainly to higher prices for
materials and labor, and the
price of tin dropped. Thus
profits virtually disappeared, as
the ’following comparison of
dredging results, etc., shows;
Year to April 30,
1952. 1953.
Treated, e.y 751,900 882,400
Recovery, t. 0., tons . . 296.4 244.4
Yield, c.y., lb. .. .88 .62
Costs, c.y., pence . . 32.02 37.75
Profit, £ . . . . 65,337 392
The oxide assayed 73.59 p.c. So
the output of metallic tin was
179.8 tons (down 36.8 tons)/
and the average price realised
was £873.6 (down £29.6) per ton.
The £392 (down £64,945) of
profit was 0.2 p.c. on the
£199,387 of capital as against
32.8 p.c. for the previous year.
A div. Is. per 15s. share
(£13,293) was paid in October,
1952, and another Is. per share
was sent out in December last.
The directors’ report does not
state the yardage and value of
ground ahead of the dredge.
However, for the nine months
to end January, 1954, 832,000
c.y. were handled for 289 tons
t. 0., an average of .771 b. per
yard. But the London average
spot price per ton of metallic
tin dropped from £S76O for
April, 1953, to £5599 three
months later, and then steadily
strengthened to £5725 on March
16, 1954. What profit, if any,
the co. will be able to earn for
the current term will depend
mainly upon what success the
management has in getting costs
back.
Finances are flush. Including
stores (£66,921), there were cur-
rent assets totalling £145,890 to
meet current liabilities of
£34,477 at the close of last
accounts. The scrip has a fairly
steady market at 16s. or there-
abouts.
From a shareholder in New
Occidental G.M.:
Your criticism (B. 17/3/’s4> of
North Australian Uranium expresses
the position very clearly as regards
that co., viz., “what profits, if any,
are likely to be won will depend upon
the results of prospecting yet to be
carried out.” On the same date
appeared the news that New Occidental
Gold Mines had applied for 100,000
shares ( = £25,000) in the uranium
company, stating; “the holding would
be acquired from available funds, and
no demands would be made on the
dente^^hareholL? 8 'STV/Ii
chairaian T. G. Murray said: “We
have a lot of our accumulated profits
invested in the co.’s assets. As these
are disposed of and the money
becomes available, shareholders can
rest assured that it wiU be distribute d
“Sib™ as.soon.as possible"
Since the Occidental is practically
liquidating its assets this application
for shares in another CO. With an
uncertain future is, in view of the
chairman’s statement, a clear breach
of his previous undertaking probably
board, but nevertheless unjustified,
£ f Scfor of
lir „ ni]im cn
*


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
To express appreciation to Mrs. John
Cain and Mr. A. E. Longford for their
work for the Women’s Organisations’ lun-
cheon at St, Kilda Town Hall, which the
Queen had attended. Dame Mary Daly
and other members of the reception com-
mittee held a delightful afternoon-tea
party in the Lady Mayoress’s reception-
room, which was decorated with bowls of
lovely autumn flowers.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. R. H. Solly,
received the guests wearing a smart navy
wool suit and a navy pillbox hat
trimmed with white grosgrain ribbon. Mrs.
Cain’s full-skirted organza frock was in
shaded tones of grey, and with it she wore
a small scarlet red feather-cap. Her
daughter, Mrs. Robert Hunt, chose a
frock and full-length coat of charcoal-
grey silk-shantung.
Dame Mary Daly wore a frock of black
crepe and a waist-length jacket, and her
hat was of pale-blue straw. Others present
included Mrs. J. J. Booth, Mrs. Henry
Bolte, Lady Knox, Mrs. J. G. Norris, Mrs.
Julia Rapke, and Mrs. J. W. Jungwirth.
Mrs. Cain was presented with a Dresden
China figure and Mr. Longford with a
wristlet-watch.
i* ☆ &
Under the charter of the British
Memorial Fund four 1954 Fellows have
arrived from England to take up further
study in this country. They were wel-
comed at a late-afternoon party, and in
the absence of the president of the fund,
Sir Norman Mighell, vice-presidents Mrs.
Essington Lewis and Mr. A. J. Collocott
did the honors, assisted by members of
the reception-committee, Mesdames L.
Gillam Hunt, A. Isaacson and J. Daniel.
Guests-of-honor were Miss Elizabeth
Hitchfield, here to study pre-school edu-
cation and child development; L. H.
Elliott, to continue British Common-
wealth studies ; A. L. Walker, industrial
arbitration ; and J. W. Haywood, metal-
lurgy. E. R. Reynolds, Q.C., accompan-
ied by his wife, was present, as were Sir
John Medley, Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mrs. H. F. Maudsley and Reta Findlay.
Miss Edith Dew was thanked by Mrs.
Gillam Hunt for having designed and
bound the book of signatures of con-
tributors to the fund, its pages of parch-
ment bound in pin-grain leather. The
book has been sent to the Queen.
☆ & ☆
Trim, uncluttered lines, the new
“autumn look,” were featured in George’s
Mam’selle Parade. Two notable examples
were budget frocks for the young girl,
fashioned of plaid, one in brilliant red
tonings, the other in soft green. In other
models leather had been used effectively.
With a slim grey jersey frock was worn a
striking yellow-leather jacket. »A dull-
grey jersey frock was made bright by the
addition of yellow-leather jewelled bands
outlining the plunge neckline, the leather
repeated on the bracelet-length sleeves.
For the girl who finds luxury-furs
beyond her budget there was a most
attractive white fur-fabric full-length
coat. This was worn over a ruby-red
velvet frock with a wide skirt and short
sleeves. Over a frock of green brocade,
patterned in silver leaves, was worn a
full-length matching coat. And very
smart was a simple Ming-blue jersey
frock worn with a cloche of the matching
jersey.
A tall, fair mannequin floated in to the
parade on a sea of pale-blue chiffon.
Over the very full, graceful skirt were
clusters of hand-painted pink flowers, and
there was a matching shawl-stole finished
with a deep frill. A strapless evening-
gown was a froth of black organza with
an inset front and back panel embroidered
with gold. Most sophisticated was a bril-
liant scarlet-satin gown with a skirt
folded away from the waist to fall in
graceful side-folds.
“Boat Race Night” was a delightful
gown of delicate blue-ripple organza,
with the simple bodice featuring a folded
shoulder effect and a deep V-front and
-back. Bunches of pink lily-of-the-valley
were sewn over the full skirt and the
flower motif was repeated in the hair-do.
Green tulips were printed on the wide
skirt of a strapless white organza gown,
grey and pink chiffon hand-made roses
trailed down the skirt of a grey chiffon
gown. And for the Easter bride there was
a white tulle long-sleeved gown with
guipure-lace outlining the round yoke of
the bodice and also topping the wide
flounce at the hem of the skirt. Two
bridesmaids wore short, bouffant frocks
of white tulle with picture hats of pink
tulle, the underbrims of pale-yellow tulle,
This broothom photo is of Mrs. Eccles
MacKay, who is deputy-chairman and
commandant of the Vietorian division
of Red Croś. Mrs. MacKay, who began
work with the organisation as a transport
driver, is at present giving her full time to
assisting with the annual appeal for funds
-this year the target is £150,000. She
is the wife of a well-known surgeon and
has two daughters, June and Diana-the
lauer still at school. Mrs. MacKay is a
lover of the baller and plays golf. She
was one of the Red Cross represeniatives
at the Women's luncheon for the Queen.
ẃ
frock trimmed with gold sequins; Mrs.
John Shaw, whose black chiffon frock
had a halter neckline ; Mrs. John Chald-
jian, in navy-and-white-spotted organ-
die ; Reta Findlay (who did the
commentary for the mannequin-par-
ade) in check organza frock and white
Arctic-fox furs; Judith Taylor, whose
frock was of shell-pink organdie, and her
sister Elizabeth, who added to her white
hail-spot muslin frock a black velvet
bolero.
SYDNEY
There was not very much social activity
in Sydney during the week, probably
because the art shows consumed so much
of people’s energies that they simply
couldn’t manage many other dos. All
the “openings” were so well patronised
(one could scarcely get into the Enid
MacKeliar show at David Jones’s and the
throng at the Blake Exhibition was quite
staggering) that one wondered where all
the art enthusiasts came from, and
began to feel that Sydney’s interest in
culture was more widespread than is
generally supposed. Then, after seeing a
number of the same faces at the various
galleries, it became clear that these were
the same people all the time, going round
and round like the water in a fountain.
Even at the two shows mentioned above,
which were opened at the same moment,
people rushed from one to the other to
be “in it.” So it seems that to-day it is
absolutely essential, if one is to be
abreast of the times, not only to be
interested in art but to be nimble-footed
and energetic as well.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was interesting to see at the Loreto,
Kirribilli, ex-students’ ball at the Troca-
dero last week how greatly the ballerina-
length has increased in favor for dances.
Nearly 50 p.c. of the young girls present
chose the short dress, mostly in pastel
colors. Miss Eileen Crews, who was
accompanied by Dr. P. M. Williams, wel-
comed the official party, which included
Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Coombs, Mr. Justice
de Baun and Mrs. de Baun and Dr.
Tess Carmichael. The 20 debutantes (all
of whom wore eight-button kid-gloves
with their bouffant dresses) were pre-
sented to the Lady Mayoress, Mrs, P. D.
Hills, who was guest-of-honor, by Mrs.
Tom Bateman, who wore cream lace
outlined in gold. Margaret Galbraith,
secretary of the committee, attractive in
white broderie Anglaise with royal-blue
gloves and tulle stole, entertained in her
party Mr. and Mrs. John Powell, Leslie
Powell, Keith Fitzgerald, Claire O’Sulli-
van and Jerry Sertori.
Visiting Sydney for a period of nine
weeks and studying its habirs, housing
and local government is Miss Beata
Brookes, of Rhyl, North Wales, who at
23 is a member of the Rural and Districl
Council in her home-town. The only
woman on a 21-member council, Miss
Brookes is also chairman of the Wales
Monmouthshire Young Conservative
Organisation, a Young Farmer (her home
is a 500-acre farm which has a pedigreed
herd of Ayrshires), and she is the Ministry
for Education’s Youth Organiser for
North Wales. Although she is on holi-
days in Australia, Miss Brookes is keenly
interested in studying aspects of Aus-
tralian life which may throw light on her
interests in Wales. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
w
presented to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor,
Dr. C. G. McDonald, by the Chief Jus-
tice, the Hon. K. W. Street, at a cere-
mony in the Great Hall last week. Mr.
R. J. F. Boyer spoke of the philanthropic
work which Lady Anderson had done in
her lifetime, and of the contribution to
University life made by her husband, the
late Sir Francis Anderson. Mrs. Rupert
Scammell was president of the commit-
tee which raised the £1768 for this piano
and its maintenance. After the presen-
tation Mr. Richard Farrell gave a short
recital of works by Bach, Mozart and
Chopin.
☆ ir *
Writer of those popular radio-serials
“The Lawsons” and “Blue Hills,”
Gwen Meredith gave a talk on her recent
travels abroad to members of the English
Speaking Union on Thursday. Miss
Meredith, who is small, dark, lively, fast-
talking and humorous, concentrated her
talk on unusual occupations that she
and her husband, Ainsworth Harri-
son, had observed in many countries in
Europe and Asia Minor, and thereby
took her listeners on a quickfire tour of
London, with its sandwich-board men,
its buskers, its Taverners (young actors
who perform their plays in local pubs),
through some “stately homes’,’ (“a quick
rush through for 2s. 6d.”), over to Spain,
where the matadors were more graceful
than ballet-dancers, to Austria, with its
musicians improvising comic-songs for
visitors, to the interesting but sorrowful
spectacle of shattered Berlin.
She told them also of the strange con-
trast of Athens’ classic beauty and the
noise of the city, the organised child-
begging in Turkey, the native bazaars and
the great courtesy to be found in Bag-
dad, the children selling everything,
including bits of Babylon, and a visit to
the Tower of Babel. Miss Meredith said
that the two most appealing things she
saw and that she would most have liked
to have brought home were an Arab child
and a little donkey.
* * *
There is so much talk these days about
how the changed weather must be due to
the atom-bomb that it is interesting to
read in a book first published in 1881 these
words; “Master Cipolla knew the reason
why it no longer rained as in the pash
‘The reason why it doesn’t rain any more,’
he said, ‘is that they have put up those
accursed telegraph wires, which draw all
the rain .and carry it away! ’ ” New-
fangled notions, it seems, have always
affected the weather, and apparently the
weather has always been “different.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Scots College Younger Set and
Old Boys’ Union chose a rather cute
name for their barbecue last Saturday in
aid of the College War Memorial Chapel,
though it probably made the English
scholars among them wince a little.
“Thistle Do,” which featured Scottish
music, was held at the Darling Point home
of Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Wilcox and attracted
about 400 of the school’s well-wishers.
Among those who attended were June
Finlayson, Margaret Rose, Diana Bray,
Barbara Still, Susan Cameron, Marya
Crawford, Annette Clayton and Barbara
Bennett.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 1954 Medical Ball is to be held
at the Trocadero on Friday, June 25,
and the proceeds are to be devoted to the
Medical War Memorial Library. Presi-
dent again this year is Mrs. Harold Dew,
assisted by vice-presidents Mrs. F. W.
Niesche, Mrs. E. S. Holloway, Mrs. C. G.
Berge, Mrs. O. H. Lovell, hon. secretaries
Mrs. J. M. Yeates and Mrs. W. S. Stening,
hon. treasurer Mrs. S. Morson and ticket-
secretary Mrs. N. Dobell-Brown. Mrs.
Hugh Barry is forming a sub-committee
to arrange the decorations, and details
of these plans were discussed at the meet-
ing of the committee which took place
at the Trocadero on Tuesday.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Jean Randall, lecturer in French
at the Westralian University, is the first
Australian to win the United Nations
fellowship awarded by the International
Federation of Business and Professional
Women. This will enable her to attend
the eighth session of the U.N. Status of
Women Commission in New York, as
well as meetings of the Human Rights
Commission, She has already represented
Australia at the Congress of the Inter-
national Federation of Business and Pro-
fessional Women in Paris in 1947, and
the Australian Federation of University
Women at the Pan-Pacific Women’s
Congress in New Zealand in 1952.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
» Missing Friend
TO GEORGE ALBERT HYDE, formerly
of 51 Seddon Street, Seddon, in the
State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
KATHLEEN FRANCES HYDE has insti-
tuted proceedings against you GEORGE
ALBERT HYDE for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothono-
tary’s Office at the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Twenty-third day
of April 1954 and file your answer
therein on or before the Third day of
May 1954 Judgment may be ordered
against you AND TAKE NOTICE that
the Petition and Citation in this suit
may be inspected by you at the Office
of john McDermott jones of 421
Bourke Street Melbourne in the State of
Victoria, Solicitor. —J. McD. JONES, of
421 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in the
State of Victoria, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL JEFFREY DEVER, late
of Hunter Street, Cessnock. —TAKE
NOTICE that BERYL CORAL DEVER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3898
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Ist
June 1954 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
PIGOTT STINSON & CO., Solicitors, 2b
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney, or MESSRS.
WOODGATE & CLEAVES, Solicitors, of
Cessnock. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CHARLES THOMAS, late of 63
Fletcher Street, Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE
that NELLIE JANE THOMAS has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 4092 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without Just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First day of June 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition free of charge from K. K.
REISS, Solicitor, 19 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
In the District Court op the
Southern and Hunter District Holden
at Oooma.
TO K. ROUSSEL (a male), formerly of
Island Bend and 14 Hargraves Orescent,
Ainslee, Canberra, A.O.T. —TAKE NOTICE
that a plaint has been entered and a
summons issued against you in this
Court by ZBIGNIEW COLCZYK of Surge
Tank via Munyang for the sum of .£65
for wages as your employee and an
order has been made that the publication
of the entry of such plaint in the Can-
berra Times Oooma-Monaro Express and
Bulletin shall be deemed to be service
of the summons upon you The sum-
mons will be heard at Cooma on the 4th
day of May 1954 at 10 o’clock in the
forenoon on which day you are required
to appear and if you do not appear either
in person or by your solicitor at the time
and place abovementioned such order will
be made and proceedings taken as the
Judge may think Just and expedient.
DATED this 11th day of March, 1954.
H. V. BRIGDEN, Registrar.
Forrelief from the painful symtoms of
GOUTe RHEUMATISM
1 VT*'
# * ♦:
£?ICH
COICHISONE
'is SOMETHING
lour Q F the BOX
It ii the only treatment of Iti
Kind available in Australia—the
on y treatment containing COL-
a£lh£ U . M> ®UIACOL and
a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints.
For mild cf tacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
me/it. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensationall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL, 17/6 LARGE. 30/-
Or by mail from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Lid.. 21 Oxford
Street, Sydney*
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
The Great Bombardment
It says something for the col-
lective wisdom of the much-
abused trustees of the N. S.
Wales National Gallery that
their display of purchases and
acquisitions for 1953 is, after
all, the most telling volley in a
week of one of the most inten-
sive artistic bombardments in
the history of Sydney.
True, the trustees, or which-
ever group or junta of them
did most of the voting, seem to
have been somewhat overawed
by the travelling modernistic
exhibition from Paris, buying
several absurd abstracts and
semi-abstracts from it, as well
as a few vague poesies of land-
scape, and then proceeding to
acquire some even feebler local
examples of the same sort of
thing.
But there are also a Passmore
fruit-piece, glowing with fresh
color, and one of the same
artist’s sinister beach-scenes
more alive than some of his
previous ventures and, in its con-
trasting and harmonising greys
and dark-greens, smoother and
richer in effect: two admirable
paintings, the work of a genuine
artist, only a little devalued by
the fact that at the Blake Prize
show further up the town there
are two more quite passable
Passmores by two different
artists —the gospel according to
Cezanne seems rather too easy
to follow.
There are also a surprisingly
effective quarry by James R.
Jackson, relying on much the
same arrangement of greys and
greens as Passmore’s direful
beach; Clif Peir’s “Citadel
Ruins,” a little muzzy when you
come close, but quite dramatic
from a distance; and the best
purchase of the year, though the
artist has done better, Lance
Solomon’s cool green impres-
sion of “Winter Shadows.” Just
round the corner from these is
the best Douglas Watson, one
has yet seen, a sympathetic and
smoothly-painted portrait of a
child.
Not, of course, even apart
from the descents into
absurdity, that one always
approves of the trustees’ collec-
tive taste. It seems strange that
they didn’t get a much better
painting from the one-man show
of their own director, Hal
Missingham; and they could
also have got much better
examples of the work of Arthur
Murch, Kenneth Macqueen and
Frank McNamara.
Sunken Garden
The job of the critic is, of
course, to walk around on a
sunny day disapproving of
things; and it seems worth
recording here that two Bulle-
tin critics on their way from
the National Gallery to the
Blake Prize at Mark Foy’s,
looked-in at the new sunken
garden in Hyde Park, which
appears to be a frugal kind of
memorial to both George V and
George VI, and managed to
disapprove heartily of that.
The surrounding sandstone
walls are very nice ; the garden,
when the flowers grow and the
wistaria covers the pergolas, may
look charming; but the water at
the bottom up in singu-
larly uninspired jets and falls
back into a pool floored with
a modernistic design on a
horrid background of orange.
White goes with water ; so do
green and blue; but not, surely,
orange. It makes the pool look
baking-hot.
Blake Prize
When the Blake Prize was
first being discussed the present
commentator said to the
organisers that what they would
mostly get, so few modern
painters really being Christian,
was either blasphemy or com-
mercialism: and that, this year
as in the past, is mostly what
they have got.
The prevailing artistic fashion
is, simply, to paint Christ as a
monster; and whether that is
done from political motives,
or to win a large monetary
prize, or merely in blithe imita-
tion of a fashion, it seems a
very long way indeed from
genuine religious feeling.
Where, in the whole of this
exhibition, is a single painting
that stills the mind to awe so
that, whether its subject is ex-
pressly religious or not, one
feels in the presence of some-
thing more than mortal?
However, one has seen too
many monsters at a thousand
secular exhibitions to be unduly
bothered by what is shown here.
One looks, instead, hopefully
amongst the mess for something
approaching art; and, if one
cannot help feeling that a candle
in a pumpkin would be quite as
effective as the bogymen by
P. Haefliger, there remains, as
usual, something impressive in
James Gleeson’s surrealism
(though one prefers him 6in.,
rather than 6ft., square); Justin
O’Brien seems to have advanced
a little beyond his previous
woodenness in a landscape with
figures; there are some pleas-
ing effects of color in Ludwig
Dutkiewicz’s “Last Minutes of
Freedom” and Jacqueline
Hick’s greenish “The Guest at
Emmaus”; while Fidone de
Roty’s tiny sketch of “The
Crucifixion,” slight though it is,
has a touch of atmosphere and
poetic feeling hardly to be
found elsewhere in the entire
exhibition.
As a choice of monsters
Charles Bannon’s “Judas” won
its first-prize clearly enough. It
is an ugly thing in its blacks
and raw greys, but it is a
genuine study in character,
painted with force. Whether, if
he had really looked so obvious
a criminal, born to be hanged,
the historical Judas could ever
have been accepted as one of
the Apostles, is another matter.
Maximilian Feuenring
At David Jones’s there are
two exhibitions, one by Maxi-
milian Feuerring and the other
by Enid MacKellar. Mrs. Mac-
Kellar shows scenes from
Europe in a sedate, Victorian
style. They are creditable for
an amateur.
Feuerring ranges from an
assumed naivete in his land-
scapes to smart, shrewdly-
colored sketches of street scenes
and such things as “Circus
People,” “Music-hall People”
and “In the Box.”
The landscapes are not in the
affectedly childish fashion; if
they are deliberately naive,
there is also a naive pleasure
that comes through with them —
a simple delight in form and
masses of color which the artist
transmits quite successfully to
the viewer. His “Spring in the
Garden,” for instance, is, with
its cheerful splashes of color,
very much like what one remem-
bers of spring in the garden—
not the precise record glued in
the photograph-album, but a
childhood impression mellowed
and colored by memory and
imagination.
Possibly one sees more than
the artist designed, but that,
after all, is one of the pleasures
of looking at paintings.
Between the landscapes and
the street sketches there is much
in the way of people, flowers
and whatnot, most of them
rather rigidly drawn and colored
to serve one particular pattern
or another, with varying, but
never distinguished, success.
“Masks in Oflag,” however —a
group of watercolors from a
p.-0.-w. camp in Germany—are
most effective.
Lloyd Rees
Lloyd Rees, whom one re-
members for great hump-backed
hills in early-morning light long
ago, and more recently for
sombre blue waters and massive
red-brown rocks so that his
paintings looked like stranded
whales on the foreshores of the
Harbor, has come back from
Europe to the Macquarie Gal-
leries with strange, ghostly
souvenirs of the Continent, pale
as the whales’ bones.
With a certain firmness of
drawing, but without light,
atmosphere or color, they hardly
seem to exist. They look like
the first lay-in for a painting,
waiting for the artist to get to
work on them.
Only a few of the smaller
paintings, reinforced here and
there with touches of red and
brown, seem to come to life—
notably “Square Rene, Viviani,”
“The Upper Thames” and “The
Bridge at Stratford”—and even
these, depending on the color-
notes, have not the intrinsic
vitality of the single painting that
catches the poetry of a mood,
the sketch of a misty morning at
“Chartres.”
Stage and Music
Richard Farrell
At his second Sydney recital
the young New Zealand pianist
chose two sonatas at the very
opposite poles: Mozart’s B Flat,
K 333 and Beethoven’s F Minor.
Op. 57 (“The Appassionata”).
The Mozart accurately reflects
the period in which the composer
lived, a period which expected
its music not to be a mirror of
the composer’s emotions. It is
also as good an example of the
complete detachment from
mundane cares—it was composed
during the disastrous Paris
venture —with which the young
Salzburger was able to approach
his composing; his pure
classicism and boundless inven-
tion. Nowhere else in all his
voluminous writings in this form
did Mozart achieve, as he did in
this at 22, so perfect a symmetry
in a final movement.
Farrell played this allegretto
at almost prestissimo speed, as
if his racing digits were after a
new record; yet clarity was never
sacrificed nor the strong melodic
line once threatened.
The “Appassionata,” a beetling
promontory in sonata-writing,
has a first and a third movement
which together comprise a
veritable “tempest of the soul,”
The pianist made no bones about
the emotional impact—this was
tremendous —and he underscored
the violence of the Beethovian
rages with stabbing staccatos
which sank back swiftly to
exhausted mutterings.
The variations which comprise
the lovely slow movement, a
needed calm centre of the
emotional storm, were played in
simple serenity. In the last
movement the impression was
gained of the keyboard being a
strangely stable craft in a wild,
ever-increasing torrent of notes.
After this came Debussy’s
“Suite Bergamasque,” four pieces
whose corporeality is in marked
contrast to the usual misty
impressionism of the French-
man’s piano works; “Funer-
ailles,” a roaring bit of fustian
which Liszt somewhat humor-
ously included in the 10 pieces
which make up his “Harmonies
poetiques et religieuses”; and
the same composer’s lusty
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 15,
otherwise known as the
“Rakoczy March.”
“Captain Brassbound’s Con-
version”
Shaw’s “Captain Brassbound’s
Conversion” is a play which de-
pends for its full effect upon
the contrast in ideas and out-
look between the character of
the Captain himself and that of
Lady Cicely Wayneflete.
In the current production at
the Independent Theatre Doris
Fitton gives a credible and
lively picture of Lady Cicely’s
aristocratic fearlessness and dis-
arming commonsense, but Ken
Fraser, as Captain Brassbound,
lacks the vigor and brutal
forcefulness to make the clash
between them striking. From
the beginning he gives the im-
pression of being a “good fel-
low at heart,” so that his ulti-
mate conversion, when he recog-
nises his obsession with venge-
ance as empty and foolish and
learns that the true command of
men depends on disinterested
sympathy, seems so inevitable as
to be an anticlimax.
In the minor parts Charles
Tasman as Sir Howard Hallam
is convincing. The d6cor by
Noel Rubie, who also directed
the play, is pleasing in the ortho-
dox modern manner.
Talkies
“The Captain’s Paradise”
This English comedy, polished,
cleverly-acted and thoroughly
enjoyable throughout, stars Alec
Guinness at the top of his form.
He portrays a very English
ship’s captain Captain St.
James, so that there will be no
mistake —whose tight little craft
plies between Gibraltar and a
North African port. In Gibraltar
he has a loving, very domesti-
cated wife; in the N.A. port a
loving, very undomesticated
mistress. In Gib. he is the perfect
husband; in N.A. the perfect
lover. He is enormously happy
as, no doubt, he should be; he
also regards himself as the
perfect philanthropist in that he
is making two women supremely
happy.
This blissful state he maintains
even after Nemesis scores a
couple of near-misses, but his
eventual downfall is encompassed
by quite unexpected and very
droll circumstances. And it is
during this closing-in process
that Guinness rises to his full
stature as a subtle and adroit
comedian.
Charles Goldner, as his suc-
cessor at the wheel; Celia John-
son, as the wife ; and Yvonne de
Carlo, as the fiery mistress, make
a first-rate team. At Sydney
Embassy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Scared Stiff”
Uproarious comedy; the
bouncing, roaring, grimacing
Jerry Lewis carrying the chief
burden, with Dean Martin as
his foil. There are dark doings
in a haunted castle on a forbid-
den Cuban isle, and Latin gang-
sters and a long-hidden fortune.
Lewis has struck a rich vein
of comedy which he cleverly
varies between face, feet and
voice. At his best —and this
opus sees him at his top —he
ranks No. 1 in the knockabout
stuff. At Sydney Prince
Edward.


MURDER AT
MALLOW'S MARSH
UNK [?]
by ETHEL ANDERSON
DR. PHANTOM, the most
eligible bachelor be-
tween Mallow’s Marsh
and Hornsby Junction,
did not admire women ; he did
not really care for children, but
his manners were perfect be-
cause they were the product not
of the etiquette book, but of a
kind heart.
So, encountering Miss Juliet
McCree, though, at sixteen, she
was a melange of both his
abhorrences, balanced on one
knee on the highway about four
miles out of Parramatta, her
horse’s hoof being laid for in-
spection across her other knee,
he drew up to ask whether he
could be of use.
“My horse is quite lame. The
hairpin is useless. Every time I
get it under the stone in his shoe
it buckles!” Juliet explained,
pushing back her “Dolly Var-
don” to disclose a rosy face and
copper curls, worn in the triple
ringlets then fashionable. “How
I shall find my way to Mallow’s
Marsh I cannot guess! Dear
Grandmama has commissioned
me to take a charlotte russe (it
has in it two glasses of Grand-
papa’s best port) to the curate’s
wife, and I have, besides, to
dress the well.”
“Dress the well?”
Dr. Phantom replaced the
carriage-whip in its holster,
threw off the white-and-black-
checked dust-rug wound like a
cocoon from his waist to his
brilliantly shining top-boots and
prepared to descend.
Standing up, Juliet gave him
the benefit of her lively regard.
“On St, Agnes’s day we
always dress the well in thanks-
giving for the particularly good
drinking-water we have at Mal-
low’s Marsh. Last year Millie
Yellowleas and I put tinsel
figures and rings of daffodils
round every well in the village.
There are six.”
Springing down, Dr. Phantom
joined her on the red, sandy
road.
“Oh, you are driving your
Tilbury!” Juliet exclaimed, en-
chanted, “I am so glad to have
a chance of seeing it without
having mumps, measles, scarla-
tina or whooping-cough! ”
“How is it,” Dr. Phantom
thought, “that some girls seem
better-looking every time one
meets them?”
“I found a four-leafed clover
as I was leaving Carefree Farm
(I suppose you have heard that
my stepfather bought it for my
grandparents?) and when my
horse went lame I was afraid
that the clover was proving a
complete failure as a bringer of
good luck. But, no! It is work-
ing well! I call it a piece of
great good fortune to see your
new turnout. The osier-cane
body! Yellow as a guinea! The
japanned wooden wheels with
tan stripes, like a wasp’s! The
hood that you can hoist up and
down.” She felt its supple tex-
ture. “Russia leather! I believe
you! And what a perfect pic-
ture your new mare is!”
'T'HE mare was indeed a way-
-*• ward beauty.
In one instant she would
stand on two elegant legs to
look at the blue, distant hills,
in another she would waver and
tittup sideways-backwards, per-
versely seeing in the ditches on
either side of the far-meander-
ing road elephants or giraffes or
all she most disliked, at the
same time flecking gobbets of
foam from her churned bit, rol-
ling her naughty eyes till only
the whites showed, or pricking
her fidgety ears backwards and
forwards “in the most adorable
way”—as Juliet pointed out.
Dr. Phantom, who was begin-
ning to wonder whether he had
purchased the right animal, one
which the vendor had claimed
“could do everything except
wait at table,” was a little com-
forted. This extreme nervous-
ness might be an endearing
trait.
He twisted the reins round a
hook on the dashboard, while
his diminutive groom, his
“Tiger,” wearing a cockaded
top-hat and a neatly-belted
green uniform, having jumped
down from a perch hidden be-
hind the hood, held the mare’s
head.
Standing beside Juliet, who
held the bridle, Dr. Phantom
looked with a minimum of en-
thusiasm at her unkempt colt,
which he pronounced to be in
the condition known as “hide-
bound,” and, having taken a
clean duster from the Tilbury, he
lifted the debatable hoof with
fastidious care: to decide that
no remedy was possible without
a blacksmith’s aid.
“I heard that you had put
down the Hyde Park,” Juliet
said, still lost in admiration.
“That was a smart enough
vehicle, in all conscience; but
the Tilbury positively whistles
with splendor.”
Indeed, the slim precision of
its craftsmanship evoked
memories of an ant’s waist or a
spider’s web or any other
naturally spindly miracles of
Nature; it was a superbly
attenuated conveyance.
Dr. Phantom looked com-
plaisant. “Yes. I am glad you
like it. When Dr. Boisragon,
my partner (it is impossible for
me to imagine him as your
uncle) coveted the Hyde Park
I found it more restful to let
him have it. I got the coach-
builder in Parramatta to con-
struct this Tilbury, a curricle
of sorts, as it is more economical
and needs only one horse and a
boy instead of two horses and
two men, as the Hyde Park did.
Would you believe it? Directly
Dr. Boisragon saw it he asked
me to exchange it for the Hyde
Park?”
“Now, isn’t that just like
Uncle Peter?”
Dr. Phantom, looking re-
motely aristocratic, rearranged
a black satin stock.
“Uncle Peter has never once
spoken to me since that day,
four years ago (I was twelve),
when he accused me of steal-
ing his one ripe apricot (a Red
Roman), and told me I was
both a thief and a liar!”
Juliet turned her brightly
gleaming orange-rayed eyes to
meet her companion’s. He
looked away.
“My uncle thinks there is no
sin too lurid for me to com-
mit,” Juliet went on, “but,
really. Dr. Phantom, I can
assure you that I don’t know
much more about sin than
Moses did, and he doesn’t go
very far.”
Dr. Phantom laughed. Teas-
ing her, for Donalbain, her
brother (who was eight), was
“going into the Navy,” he said,
“Moses isn’t like the Navy, who
begin where other men leave
off —eh?”
“Absurd child! ” he mused,
looking at her glowing face as
she stroked her mount’s tousled
mane. “She is lovely, but too
thin, and too lightly-clad for
such a raw spring day.” And
he reprobated not only her
uncle but her gadabout mother
(off on an extended honeymoon
in Paris with a brand-new hus-
band), and he even found him-
self (though he admired that
indefatigable lady) criticising her
grandmother’s predilection for
“hasty-pudding,” “choke-dog”
and the other charity-child,
starchy dishes on which she had
brought up her grandchildren.
Pity, therefore, took the place
of his initial annoyance at being
held-up in mid-career in his pur-
suit of a ruined stomach in the
neighborhood of Fisher’s Ghost
Creek, and he extended a hand
from which he had stripped a
miraculous pigskin glove.
“Hop up! I’ll drop you at
Mallow’s Marsh. It is only a
few miles out of my way.”
The side-saddle was put under
the seat, the colt turned into
Farmer Stirrup’s paddock, to be
reclaimed later; Dr. Phantom
mounted into his place on the
high driving-box beside Juliet,
who carried on her lap the pud-
ding-basin and the basket of
puppets and flowers; the
“Tiger,” who for part of the
time had been hanging like a
bat on to the mare’s bridle,
jumped back from her head and
leaped into his perch as it
flashed past. They were off!
TT was a perfect, though
astringent, morning in early
spring.
The sprouting grass, un-
browned by frost, showed above
a thousand puddles as bright as
looking-glass. Hundreds of grey
ibis fished for frogs. In every
paddock the grazing cattle had
their twittering retinues of wag-
tails and fly-catchers. The
whitethorn was out, wonga-
wonga vines and the small white
clematis called Traveller’s Joy
caressed every slip-rail, leaning-
post or gate. The wide, emerald-
green, treeless’ plain was being
devopred, greedily, by a man-
eating sun ardent as a beast-of-
prey.
High above the gaily-moving
equipage flew a milk-white
dove, or pigeon.
Looking up at it, Dr. Phan-
tom remembered to have seen
just such another radiant bird
flying, once, in a paradise all its
own. When was it? Following
its glinting wings he recollected:
“Yes, talking to Juliet, watch-
ing Aminta, as that other bird
flew overhead, two years ago,
while we loitered in Parramatta
High-street. I was happy! Yes!
I thought then, ‘Like a ripe pear,
earth has its one perfect moment
—and this is that moment.’ But
I know now that earth offers
many such moments, when the
heart sings for some reason that
one cannot fathom.”
Like wax-flowers in a glass-
container, he saw, laid on his
past, a pink-lawn handkerchief
and a lost illusion ; Juliet, too,
looking at the sunlit bird, had
visions of a regurgitated apricot
(a Red Roman) deposited in a
black papier mache basin. Both,
though, were happy, for time
had candied their griefs.
“I wanted to go to Scutari, to
the Crimea, to join Florence
Nightingale, who is taking
thirty-seven nurses out, but my
partner would not relax the
terms of our agreement.”
“The war with Russia will
soon be over,” Juliet essayed
comfort.
For some moments they pro-
gressed in a crablike movement
along the deeply-rutted high-
way, the mare only sometimes
recollecting that the earth was
her proper element.
“I find,” Juliet observed after
a thoughtful silence, “that a
circle of people has a peculiar
reality in just one place, in just
one time. However much one
loves it, such a group dissolves,
and it can never be called
back. The whole collectipn of
people disperses into something
quite different. That is why I
dread going back to Mallow’s
Marsh today, for I will find
everything changed! To think
of seeing a curate in dear
Grandpapa’s place! It cuts me
to the heart.”
Dr. Phantom was cautious.
“When I look back on my own
childhood I see such a circle, I
think,” he finally allowed. “I
remember a day when I was
lying under a flowering wattle-
tree with my three brothers —
we were all under twelve —and
we were planning what we
would do ‘when we grew up.’
Yes. That memory does stay
in the mind with the immo-
bility, the clarity, of china
figures on a mantelpiece. It is a
collective memory, perhaps, and
that may be what gives it a per-
manent value.”
“Life seems to be made up of
a succession of such images.”
“Yes. Life is peculiar! It is
stranger than we guess. Look
at the way some people keep
coming into our lives.”
He stooped, to look under her
hat-brim, but her eyes eluded
him.
He longed to say more, but
prudence restrained him. It
was, had he but known it, his
moment.
“Yes indeed!” Juliet agreed
heartily. “And people, who
have not known of each other’s
existence before, meet, and their
lives immediately become
entangled! ”
A LIGHT spring-cart drawn
by a handsome dray-horse
had been lumbering and jolting
on its way towards them for the
past quarter of an hour.
“Why, I do believe,” Juliet
exclaimed, watching it with
eager eyes, “I do believe that
is the rectory-cart and that Man
Thomas is driving it.”
To her great delight it proved
to be none other.
Since in that neighborhood no
one dreamed of passing without
exchanging “the time of day” fa
lost phrase), the Tilbury drew
up to the side of the road and
got as near to stopping as the
mare and the Tiger could agree
to; Man Thomas very easily
chirruped Old Ruby into com-
plete immobility beside it.
Man Thomas, together with
Old Ruby and the dray, had
been lent to the curate for a
month ; he looked just the same,
Juliet radiantly noted.
The brass earrings, as big as
saucers, gleamed through his
frizzy hair, his Byzantine
beard, its waves as stiff and deep
as furrows, was just as richly
Babylonish, his presence, as
always, evoked a carved frieze
of some Mithraditish king
returning from a lion-hunt.
Juliet was overjoyed to see
again his jetty eyes, his hooked
nose, his piratical neckerchief.
All Mallow’s Marsh, all her
childhood returned to life in his
appearance.
He knew his manners. He
asked, first, after her grand-
parents, then her brother, her
parents, cook Teresa and every
farm-hand and animal at Care-
free Farm, with a persevering
fidelity. Both his hearers
sensed the bringer of tidings!
And he did come charged
with news.
“Sims-like,” Man Thomas
said at length, “Sims-like as
curate has murdered his wife-
like.”
“What!”
“Sims-like.”
“Whatever makes you think
that! ”
“How can you say such a
thing, Man Thomas!”
“She has disappeared.”
“Oh, come!” Dr. Phantom
was amused. Juliet’s delight in
meeting her friend —such a
bizarre friend —had touched
him, but still!
“She’s not in church, she’s
not in rectory, she’s not in Mal-
low’s Marsh at all —I could
swear to that.”
“When was she last seen?”
“I saw her meself the day
the curate arrived, ten days ago.
I passed her on the road to
Fisher’s Ghost Crick. English!
“How could you guess?”
“Too tall, flat chest, nose as
big as Mr. ParkeFs own and
talking through it like a black-
bird. I know an Englishwoman
when I meet one.”
“Has no one seen her since?”
“First or last. Granny
Peachey says she’s in the otto-
man. I holds she’s in the well.
Churchwarden told me that he
((Continued on page 22)
THEN
When I was country-sad
and lonely as the west,
the girls I’d never had
gave night and night no rest.
I moved by day through dream
of naked girl and girl
that made each real thing seem
as unreal as a fool.
I sat in the veranda-cool
of the twilight-softened farm
and heard the curlew-call
that brings all home-things home,
I thought that I alone
was empty of reply,
and loathed the white, white
moon
that was lonelier than I.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


j£3k^' --•.•*■ *
- \ <v
IK ■■, ''^,«-
~ I j? - * *r;
, „ y-t: %3pißlßp«»i, 1 > X ' /,, j;, -:
* tMaa, ..
life j£
I I y -4
a j^mw»
3BT> , s^ : ''jß MR/S B>
W/! /i il^Sa
1W
<•■■?', r
■
n
ffTp -=«•
■jp*
81
■I
£'•
iiiiiaigi
iiaig ~***
m^mp*
E
1/
J
|:»
■
■:
#g|%
mm.
fe I fu,
i*'/ - -'^'- •.# , * ■., _ 4 I
SS*-* ... -4 d&t . s >*«' —'J5- /
<? f
jsMs mM ir» wl
kL Blß#
Mil, IML
PBd
■KiZL’iSaP
i
■r
f - :'•£«—*•
l-i 'E
\
*
H<.
r :-SSSSSS9
I
ji
f
-
&.*
i
cr*^
ak I
ll
\
■ ■ y
***?:
%
£?&&&« . f.y. ..k
am n i,
gJgL;-
Jmim
“Here’s the doctor now
Something wrong with this picture? Well, the idea
of any modern doctor having to do his rounds in a
horse and buggy is certainly very wrong. In fact,
if it weren’t for the motor car the doctors of today
would literally be working round the clock to keep
up with the calls they have to make. And not
only doctors. Imagine if the grocer, the plumber,
the electrician, the ambulance services, the people
who are responsible for the maintenance of our
light, fuel, power, communications, had to return
to the horse and buggy. Service would fall away,
costs would inevitably soar.
When you think about it you realize that our
material progress in the last fifty years has been
closely linked with motor transport. General
Motors-Holden’s have played a major part in this
development. In fact, almost one vehicle in three
on our roads today is a member of the General
Motors Family.
GMH is a big business. It has to be big to do the
job the people expect of it. Not only that but the
operations of an organisation like General Motors-
Holden’s spread their benefits through the whole
community. To supply all the parts, components
and services that go into the manufacture of a motor
vehicle, or a Frigidaire, or a piece of industrial
equipment, GMH purchase something like 30,000
different types of products each year products
that come from almost every corner of Australia.
The successful operation of a big industry like
GMH contributes to the success of many more
industries spreading the field of employment,
contributing to the expansion of our economy*
improving our industrial techniques, raising the
standard of our living.
w
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
a partner in Australia's future
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Z94C


asked the curate right out
‘Where is your wife?’ and the
curate laughed. Laughing all
the time, that young gentleman
is! But Ibe going to fetch
the police.”
“Are you and Granny
Peachey and the churchwarden
the only people who suspect the
curate of having murdered his
wife?”
“The whole parish suspects
him.”
Dr. Phantom was distressed.
Could he leave a girl of six-
teen at the scene of a recent and
unsolved crime? Yet his
patient—he of the ruined
stomach —at the village beyond
Fisher’s Ghost Creek, was in a
critical state.
“Yes,” Man Thomas con-
tinued with relish. “The whole
of Mallow’s Marsh allows as he
murdered his wife. Where is
she? That’s what we asks. We
organised a search-party. We
looked high and low, under all
the bridges and culverts, in the
gullies and ponds and cricks, for
miles! Yes! We did so. We
combed every nook and cranny.
We did it thorough. And there
was his Highness peeping at us
from every window in turn and
doubled up with laughter. He
laughs all the time.”
TV/TAN THOMAS said “Hup”
to Ruby, who understood,
and, waking out of a doze, broke
into a wilful trot that caused
the light dray to swing from
side to side and carried him
quickly on his way to the police-
station in Parramatta.
“Grandmama and Grand-
papa both met the curate while
I was at school. They like him!
Even Grandpapa, who is a
Cambridge man, said ‘For an
Oxford man he is an excep-
tionally harmless type.’ Would
Grandmama send me to take a
pudding to the wife of a man
who seemed to be eccentric?
She is a good judge of charac-
ter. Of course she would not!”
Dr. Phantom deftly guided
the mare over a bad stretch of
road.
“Personally, I was surprised
that you should have been
allowed to ride so far across
country by yourself”
“Grandmama meant to con-
sole me,”
“Console you?”
“Mama had sent me a pre-
sent from Paris.”
“Then why ‘console’?”
Juliet’s face was hidden by
her drooping hat-brim.
“Mama sent me a doll.”
“No!”
Dr. Phantom burst out
laughing.
“Grandmama says she must
have gone shopping with some
young admirer and might have
wanted to appear young herself.
So, you see, she sent me a doll
and Donalbain, who is eight,
a set of bells and corals.”
Dr. Phantom stopped laugh-
ing.
“It made Grandmama very
angry indeed. She looked at
the doll and the corals—so ex-
pensive, both presents! She
saw how much disappointed we
both Were. In fact,” Juliet be-
came confidential, “Donalbain
cried—a thing he rarely does!
Then Grandmama went off to
the dairy and immediately began
making the charlotte russe. As
she stirred and whipped and
poured in port and cream and
one expensive thing after
another, she kept saying under
her breath, so indignantly, ‘A
child! Oh, yes, indeed, my fine
high Madam! I’ll soon teach
you what kind of child your
daughter Juliet is! ’”
Juliet’s tawny eyes, as she
turned to glance into his, gave
Dr. Phantom the usual shock
of emotion. He looked away.
“Dear Grandmama,” went on
the unconscious Juliet, “very
seldom loses her temper, but
when she does she is danger-
ous ; she acts! ”
“I see.” Dr. Phantom be-
came extremely thoughtful.
Mrs. McCree was angry
with her daughter-in-law (who
had remarried) because she had
attempted to appear younger
than she was ; so she had sent
her granddaughter to take a
charlotte russe to the wife of
a curate. What could be the
meaning of that? He won-
dered.
When, after a lively struggle,
he had come off best in a tussle
with the mare, who, still full
of high spirits, wanted to leap
the three-rail fence on either
side of the road, she did not care
which. Dr. Phantom observed
“If I do not put you down at
Mallow’s Marsh I may be spoil-
ing some plan of your grand-
mother’s, and she is a woman
who always knows what she is
doing. I have the greatest
respect for her. So I’ll drop
you at the rectory gate and pick
you up on my way home.
Frankly,” he added, “I do not
believe a word of Man Thomas’s
story. Other men might murder
their wives, but not curates —
I have never heard of an
instance of it.”
And he and Juliet exchanged
smiles.
HALF an hour later, there-
fore, when the sun was
sending a slanting shade, a
phantasy arranged by the one
tree in Mallow’s Marsh, across
the road, Juliet waved a gay
good-bye to Dr. Phantom and
opened the wicket-gate —so long
familiar to her —of Mallow’s
Marsh rectory.
“There is the polyanthus—in
full flower! All my daffodils
are out! There are the two
clumps of clove carnations —not
one bud, yet. And the rose-
mary-hedge has not been
clipped! And the parsley by
the step has died!”
Juliet made her way up the
narrow brick path.
“How bare it all looks. No
curtains at the windows. No
mat at the front-door.”
Juliet knocked. She could
hear, upstairs, steps on the bare
boards. It sounded very much
as if someone slid down the
banisters, then the door was
flung wide-open and the curate
stood before her.
He was incredibly fair. His
hair was almost flax-white, his
complexion was as pale as milk,
his eyes (not an albino’s red
eyes as might have been ex-
pected) were of an intense corn-
flower-blue. His wide, generous
mouth seemed made for
laughter,
“The goose-girl*” he ex-
claimed. “It only wanted that
last finishing touch,! Where are
all your geese?”
“I only see one goose,” Juliet
smiled.
As for the young man, he
appeared to be convulsed.
“My Grandmama, Mrs. Mc-
Cree, has sent you a charlotte
russe for your wife.”
These apparently harmless
words added to the curate’s
mirth.
“Impossible,” he gasped, lean-
ing against the door-jamb. “Im-
possible! Mrs. McCree knows!
She knows!”
Absurdly amused, he led his
visitor into the old morning-
room.
It overlooked the stony
orchard-wall and the well with
its flowering wattle-tree and its
patch of long grass. Far off the
Picton Hills gnawed at the
sky.
There is one thing in this de-
ceitful world that cannot be
hidden, or disguised. That is
poverty. Even the usual pallia-
tives, water, soap and sunlight,
though they may adorn it, can-
not conceal poverty. The rec-
tory had never been opulent;
now it shrieked of indigence.
Juliet, looking round her,
noticed that there were no cur-
tains, no carpets, no chairs. A
packing-case, a deal table on
which were writing materials,
and their old ottoman fur-
nished the room. The wall-
paper showed the unfaded
patches were “The Fair Tres-
passers” had once embellished
it.
Juliet handed over the pud-
ding in its papier mache basin
and sat on the packing-case. Her
host, sitting on the famous otto-
man, covered with pink-glazed
calico, which may or may not
have hidden a corpse, was still
rocked by laughter.
“Mrs. McCree has sent me a
pudding— for my wife! Impos-
sible! Quite impossible!” he
kept exclaiming, till, struck by
a sudden idea, he stopped laugh-
ing and looked utterly incredu-
lous.
“How old are you?” he
asked, after a searching glance
and a long, contemplative pause.
“Sixteen.”
“Heartfree?”
“That is one of the questions
I never answer.”
T~\AZED, apparently, but ob-
viously hungry, the curate
brought plates and spoons ; they
embarked amicably on the
charlotte russe, which was de-
licious, as both agreed, though
there seemed to be some joke
about it hidden from Juliet,
Looking round her, she said
in her usual direct fashion “An
empty house is such a sad thing,
isn’t it? Don’t you find it de-
pressing?”
She had forgotten the missing
wife.
“Did your grandmama tell
you to say that?”
Mirth again bubbled up in his
blue eyes.
“No,” answered Juliet, mysti-
fied. “No. Why should she?”
“Did she tell you bring into
your conversation some men-
tion of the patter of little feet?”
The young man began laugh-
ing again.
“No,” answered Juliet,
puzzled. “No —of course not!”
“Did you find out the date when you Were in Moresby? ”
“Can you tell me the name
of any other character in history
who died of laughing? I don’t
want to be the only one.”
“St. Hilarious?” Juliet drew
a bow at a venture.
“Call me Hilary.”
“My name is Juliet.”
He left the obvious unsaid.
“Tell me,” he asked, with the
appearance of controlling his
“hilarity”—“you have heard of
course that I am accused of
having murdered my wife?”
“Oh, yes,” Juliet responded
cheerfully.
“Well, tell me, do you belong
to the school which believes
that I killed her with a cleaver
and hid her in this ottoman —
where she still reposes? Or to
the less-imaginative faction
which hold that I threw her
down the well?”
“As a young widower,” Juliet
ventured to say, “you do not
strike me as being inconsolable.”
“Did your grandmama tell you
to say that?” He was off again,
in fits of laughter. “And did
you enjoy your pudding?”
Juliet brushed these incon-
sequences aside. She answered
his earlier question.
“If you are the bloodthirsty
type, delighting in slaughter for
its own sake, you would have
chopped her up and put her in
the ottoman. If you are one
of those people who cannot
bear to see anyone suffer, you
would have thrown her down
the well. I have not yet
decided which type you flatter.”
“Let me know as soon as
you do,”
“Certainly. You are of
course aware that Man Thomas
has gone to fetch the police?”
“Man Thomas? Oh, you
mean Ahmen Totop? Or Tot-
mus Ten —that one?”
“Yes.” Juliet did not often
laugh, but a chirrup escaped
her. “But he is such a nice
man, really.”
“So are they all nice men, all
Assyrian assassins.”
“Well, you have been
warned,” Juliet said, rising.
“I came to dress the well, I
shall do it too! Corpse or no
corpse! I have always dressed
the well for years and years, and
I have brought such a darling
little saint and some sweet paper-
roses ! ”
They went out together.
nrHAT was how it came about
that Dr. Boisragon, driving
past the rectory in his recently-
acquired Hyde Park, saw his
niece and a murderer —for, hav-
ing spoken to the churchwarden
and to Granny Peachy, he knew
the curate to be a wife-murderer
pure and simple—adorning the
well-head below which the
murdered wife’s body was re-
ported to be floating—perhaps
still gurgling—with paper-roses
and some kind of image.
“Ha!”
“Ho!”
Dr. Boisragon, who had been
meaning to stop and inspect the
well in any case, drove in
through the stable-gate, and,
leaving the Hyde Park, stood
watching the young people for
some moments before they
caught sight of him.
By this time the sun was
declining westwards.
Long, level rays of light
caught Juliet’s brilliant hair in
a thousand golden facets, and
shone gaily through the pink
paper-roses with which she had
garlanded the upright winch, the
rope, the bucket and the wide
ledge of the well itself. The
sunlight, too, danced through
the flowering wattle-tree at her
back, and the curate, dangling
a foot as he sat on the well
beside her, was so much
absorbed that he did not hear
the clatter of Dr. Boisragon’s
arrival; neither did Juliet.
“Yes, I quite agree,” Miss
McCree was saying with her
usual complete unselfconscious-
ness, “as you remark, a curate
is perhaps the most vulnerable
form of bachelor! Other men
can entrench themselves with a
reasonable sense of security be-
hind a facade of whiskers,
brandy and rank cigars, but a
curate” Looking up she
saw her uncle.
Dr. Boisragon had been to a
funeral.
His tall, upright figure was
completely encased in black.
Crepe banded his arm and his
tall top-hat. His gloves were
black, his cane ebony. His
stern, handsome face was
shadowed by that expression of
regret, of sadness for the sins
and shortcomings of others, with
which Juliet was already
familiar.
“So!” Dr. Boisragon drew
closer. “So! Yet once again,
you abandoned girl, it is my
duty to reprimand you for your
transgressions! At twelve you
were both a thief and a liar! I
then, on reflection, understood
that your theft of my ripe
apricot (a Red Roman) was the
outcome of greed. Inherently,
you are a glutton. Now I have
caught you satisfying —at
sixteen ! your even baser
appetites.”
“I only took my fair share,
Uncle Peter,” Juliet answered
nervously in a small, childish
voice.
“Your fair share I Great
heavens! Do you, so brazenly,
at once admit your sin? You
can stand there beside your
paramour, a murderer, whose
dead wife’s body is even now
decaying in the well which —I
see, with horror, with a profane
intention that my imagination
boggles at —you are decorating
with the roses and rapture of
vice! Vice! And you can
stand there, you Jezebel, and
tell me that you ‘only had
your fair share’! Your fair
share!” Dr. Boisragon’s voice
shook with fury. “Of what,
may I ask?”
'“Of Grandmama’s pudding,
of course,” Juliet, even more
deeply mystified replied, still in
the voice that might have
belonged to a child of six.
“Of Grandmama’s pudding!
I have heard of Eve’s apple, but
this is the first time I have heard
such an expression applied to
such a sin! Grandmama’s pud-
ding ! Is that meant for wit, you
wicked girl?”
Dr. Boisragon really did seem
quite astounded.
TT was at this most opportune
moment that the police,
triumphantly led by Man
Thomas, joined the group.
The policemen, to show their
zeal, jumped the hedge. Mag-
nificently uniformed, and with
perfect, foam-flecked mounts,
they made a dashing entrance,
and, leaping from their horses,
they stood on either side of the
curate, whom Man Thomas,
elated at being in time, pointed
Out to them as “the murderer.”
The churchwarden, who had
driven in with Dr. Boisragon,
came running over from the
stable, together with Granny
Peachy, who had, apparently,
been hiding in the barn. They
joined the ring round the well.
All the inhabitants of
Mallow’s Marsh (six men,
three women and some ten or
twelve children) attracted by the
bustle, assembled, to peer over
the orchard-wall.
The scene, indeed, was set.
The sergeant took out his
notebook, standing with his
horse’s-bridle through his arm.
“From information laid,” he
began, “I have to inform you
that you are under suspicion of
having murdered your wife.
Name?”
“Hilarious.”
Juliet gave her small chirrup.
It affronted everyone more
than words can say.
“Orlando —Furioso.”
Again an irrepressible chirrup
of laughter from Juliet.
The policemen were shocked ;
even in their minds the girl, as
they termed her, was already
assigned the position of the
murderer’s paramour.”
“Yes?” the sergeant licked
the point of his pencil. He
scorned to ask how Furioso was
spelt.
“Surname?”
{Continued on page 34)


r m
ut. ■;!
m
1
■
m
m
m,
jy ; -:
Me
SK
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
BVusabei*
-iriotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
Lonely Laddie
by Will Lawson
"T HE proprietress of the
S Rest Awhile Hotel at the
V j Point called him that.
She never saw him with
many people; he drank alone —
mostly when business was slack
—and would talk to her by the
yard; all about big business.
He had been in big business,
the picture business. But things
went wrong through no fault
of his. He was always well
dressed. Though his clothes
were far from new, his linen was
always spotless—he did his own
washing—and his shoes, good,
and his hat, too. The only thing
really wrong with Lonely
Laddie’s clothes was that the
pockets were mostly empty.
But he was strictly business-
like, result of years of experi-
ence. When he got a cheque
he went and paid for his room
weeks in advance. Then he felt
safe; he could always get a
meal somewhere and it saved
money to drink alone.
His friends always wondered
why he did not get another job
in the picture game. They
decided that bad luck had made
him soft. There they were
wrong, dead wrong. Laddie’s
trouble was he had been too
tough, and still was.
One of his mates was Lucky
Lockie, the racing-tout, doubles-
bookie and general waster
Lucky was always good tor a
few shillings when things were
hard. And Lucky felt well re-
paid by the tales Laddie told
him—tales of big business, travel
in many lands, when he had
thousands of shares in prosper-
ous concerns. And he lost it
all in one flash of time; while
he was travelling overseas.
A bank held his shares against
a big overdraft. Laddie was a
reckless spender; he did every-
thing well; and when he re-
turned from America in the
depression he found he had
nothing— not a bean. Luckily,
he had left his wife in America.
She liked it there and had got
a job. He would return later.
But he never did. For the bank
had sold his shares to cover the
overdraft sold them cheap,
too. Lonely Laddie went mad,
went looking for the men who
bought them with a gun. But
he never found them, so he got a
job as a manager of a show.
But being a manager was very
different from being a big-
business executive; he soon
found that out; and he did not
like it at all. So one night after
the cashier had made up her
cash he said, “I’ll take care of
that. Too many robberies going
on, so I’ll take it.”
A FTER the show he put on
his hat and went home and
never came back. Apparently
nothing could be done; he had
the wood on them over his
shares. But he had no hope of
getting back in the picture-
game. He still had hopes in
the theatrical world. His idea
was to get the rights of an over-
seas play and put it on in
Sydney. He used to talk to
Lucky Lockie about this scheme
by the hour. Talked in
thousands, and at the end he
would say;
“Got a couple of bob,
Lockie?”
Lockie always had. He didn’t
mind a few bob, or a few quid,
if he had it. Laddie reckoned
when he really struck it rich he
would let Lucky in on it. And
Lucky would give him the
money in all good faith.
One day somebody gave
Lucky six bottles of beer. He
took it round to Laddie’s room
and asked if he could leave it
there.
“Of course, of course,” Laddie
said. “Bring anything you like.
Eat here, sleep here; it’s a
double-bed.”
Next day when Lucky took a
bag to put the bottles in.
Lonely said, “Here we are. I
kept you a bottle.”
Lucky felt a bit wild, but he
only laughed, and they drank
the bottle while Lonely Laddie
talked. He could talk all right.
And he borrowed two shillings
from Lucky when he left —after
Lucky had bought a drink at the
Rest Awhile.
Lucky got a job to go to
Maitland and attend a meet-
ing about something special.
He got some cash for expenses,
so he went and got Lonely and
asked him to come too —all
expenses paid.
“It’s important,” Lucky said.
“I want somebody to look after
me, keep me sober. You’ll be
the lad.”
“Certainly, certainly, I’ll come
and look after you.”
Lucky gave him two pounds
to spend. They had a good
day; too good for Lonely
Laddie. Lucky left him sound
asleep on his bed when he went
to the meeting, but he only
grinned and said, “Poor cow,
he’s had a happy day!” But
when Lucky told him that after
the meeting some miners drove
him out to Kurri and back.
Laddie was really angry.
“What’s the good of me com-
ing to look after you, and you
clear out like that —leave me
asleep?”
In Newcastle Laddie took
Lucky to a place in the heart
of the city, where a narrow lane
led down to an old-fashioned
court with cottages built around
it and said:
“This is where my new
picture-theatre will be —we’ve
got options over all this land —
make thousands, we will;
millions, in fact. Only have to
form the company and we’ll be
set.”
Then he borrowed a pound
from Lucky.
The real thing seemed to be
coming right into Laddie’s lap
at last, when he showed Lucky
some letters from the owners
of the rights of a comedy then
running on Broadway, New
York.
“This is the goods,” Laddie
said. “I’ve got the backing and
I’m sending a man over there to
fix it all up, while I arrange for
a theatre out here. This will
make me rich —and you’ll get
back every cent you’ve lent me,
every cent —must be about sixty
quid by now.”
Lucky had no idea how much
he had lent Laddie.
“What about that show in
Newcastle? It sounded pretty
good to me.”
“Oh, that! Wanted too much
for the land £lOO,OOO too
much.”
As time went by the New
York proposition began to look
like the real thing. Lucky was
glad. It made a new man of
Laddie. He had a new suit, and
shoes and hat, but he never
seemed to have too much money
—at least. Lucky never saw any,
and he still lent Laddie a few
bob, now and then.
Then one day Laddie said,
as he borrowed another five
shillings, “Well, I’m going up to
fix the theatre today —got one
near the railway. Only have to
sign up, that’s all.”
T UCKY never saw Laddie
again. He heard he had
gone on a holiday; nobody
knew where he had gone. The
play never came from America,
but there were rumors. One
was that Laddie had been
bought out by local theatres,
who saw a danger in this new
enterprise. Then he heard
Laddie was back. The proprie-
tress of the Rest Awhile had
seen him looking well and
prosperous.
“Poor lonely laddie,” she said.
“He never seems to have any
friends.” She didn’t see him all
the time, though. He had
changed his scene of activities to
Sydney, though he still lived at
the Point. His landlady said
he had paid-up for his room for
six months. After that Lucky
lost interest.
Then he heard Laddie was
sick—very ill, in fact. But
Lucky did not go near the sick
man; he was beginning to be
annoyed ; and it was six months
since he had seen Laddie. He
heard now and then that Laddie
was very ill —some fatal disease,
they said. Men who had seen
him said he looked bad, wasted
right away. Lucky meant to
visit him, but he never did.
Then a miracle happened.
About six of Laddie’s city
friends were in a bar talking
about Laddie, when one of them
said, “Good God, here he is!”
Everyone swung round.
There, well-dressed as ever, all
spic-and-span, stood Laddie. He
took a note from his pocket and
threw it on the bar. “Have a
drink, boys!” he said.
Everyone gasped. Laddie
shouting! He must be holding
money. They crowded round.
“How are you, son?” they
asked. “Look a bit thin on it.
Have to take a holiday.”
“I’m going,” he said, “first
thing tomorrow. Doctors can
make mistakes, you know. Got
me all wrong. Cancer, they
said. Rats. Have another, I
got plenty. And there’ll be
plenty where I’m going. Here’s
luck! ”
After a time, he slipped away,
leaving them talking. He got a
tram and managed to stagger
home and get back into bed.
And he died that night. He
went away all right, all on
his own. Poor Lonely Laddie —
a showman to the last.
T UCKY was sad, and a bit
inclined to blame himself for
not going to see Laddie. Soon
after, he met Laddie’s landlady
in the street.
“Wherever have you been?”
she said reproachfully. “Never
coming near poor Laddie —and
he so ill.”
“I should have come,” Lucky
said, uneasily. “But he cleared
out six months ago dunno
where he went —I never saw
him, I should have come.”
“Yes, he expected you, often
told ipe about you. He left a
letter for you, too. Better come
home now and get it. I didn’t
know where to send it.”
On the way she talked about
Laddie ; he had been so good to
her and her married daughter
and her tiny children,
“Her husband left her, you
see,” the old lady said, “and
we’ve had our work to look
after the children. And Laddie
helped us, oh, he did help us ;
and got us tickets for the pic-
tures every week; he was a
lovely man, a lovely man. If
I was sick he would cook my
breakfast. My daughter had to
go to work at five, cleaning
offices —and he did help so.”
Tears were running down her
cheeks when they reached her
home. She took him inside.
She handed him the letter, a fat
letter. Inside were seven ten-
pound notes, with a message:
“Repaying an old debt to an
old friend. So long, Lucky.”
There were tears in Lucky’s
eyes when he read that. He
handed the money to the land-
lady:
“You take this, I don’t need
it. But I’m glad he remembered.
I thought he had forgotten all
about me.”


The Menzies-Evatt Feud
Three Years with
MENZIES
By STEWART COCKBURN
IF the Menzies-Fadden Gov-
ernment is returned to office
at the next general election
Menzies will have touched
the second, and probably the
ultimate, pinnacle of his career.
It had seemed on December
10, 1949, when success at last
capped his eight-year struggle in
Opposition, that life could hold
no richer moment for the man
generally regarded in 1941 as
“finished.”
But on June 13, 1951, Mr.
Chifley collapsed and died ; and
a few days later the Federal
Parliamentary Labor party
elected Dr. Evatt to lead them in
his place.
From that time a new factor
entered the Australian political
scene. It was the personal
enmity of the two men who now
lead the nation’s principal
opposing political forces.
There are certain fortuitous
similarities in the lives of
Menzies and Evatt which add
piquancy to their conflict in
public life.
Each was born in the same
year—lB94—though not under
the beneficent influence of
identical stars. Each came from
humble stock. Each chose law
as his profession, and each
graduated with distinction amid
a blaze of prizes and other
scholastic honors; Evatt to be
regarded as perhaps the most
brilliant student ever to pass
through Sydney University, and
Menzies as the most brilliant of
his time at Melbourne. A few
years later they took silk,
Menzies at the age of 34, Evatt
at 35.
Each, in due course, forsook
the law permanently for politics.
Each, while still in his political
swaddling-clothes, was widely
credited with —or accused of —
the ambition to become Prime
Minister, an office which can to-
day be attained (or retained) by
the one only at the expense of
the other.
Each aspired not only to the
laurels of politics but to those of
authentic statesmanship. Finally,
each has been charged with
coveting, at the end of his poli-
tical career, the office of
Governor-General.
That charge is almost certainly
without foundation —either in
Menzies’s case or Evatt’s.
There is no harm in revealing
now that while the “Menzies for
Governor-General” speculation
was at its height in early 1952
Menzies effectively cleared-up
doubts among his colleagues in
a speech to a private meeting of
Liberal supporters in Sydney:
“The other day,” he said,
inter alia, “I picked up an
eminent journal published in this
city [it was Lang’s “Century”]
which explained with loving care
that this was my golden moment.
I could become Governor-
General or I could become Chief
Justice.
“Gentlemen, the best answer
I can give to you at this private
meeting—because otherwise I
like to keep the Press guessing
—is:
“So much do I believe that
this task [of defeating inflation
and putting the principles of
Liberalism back into Australia’s
economic and social life] remains
to be done, and that it is my duty
to do it, and to succeed, or to
fail and take the rap, that wild
horses wouldn’t induce me to
take either of those posts. ‘He
that setteth his hand to the
plough and looketh back’ is not
fit for the Kingdom of Heaven.
And I haven’t set my hand to
the plough, as I set it in 1943,
to take it away again because
there are a few ruts and stones
and obstacles in the furrows....
I believe that what we as a
Government are doing is right.
And so far as I am concerned I
am going to see it through.”
Long before this speech, how-
ever, I knew his mind very well
on the subject of candidature for
the next appointment as
Governor-General. As far back
as August, 1952, when the specu-
The Prime Minister , modelled by Frith in 1940.
lation in regard to himself had
barely started, he said to me in
his office one night:
“A whispering campaign has
begun with the object of having
me transferred to the office of
the Governor-General, or of
Chief Justice.
“Now, the reasonable, think-
ing man knows without being
told that, if I wished to do so, I
could perhaps become Governor-
General on the retirement of Sir
William McKell; or, if I wanted
to do so, that I could become
Chief Justice when Sir John
Latham’s retirement becomes
effective next April.
“I have no wish or intention
in respect to either position. So
when he sees in due course that
I have not become either
Governor-General or Chief
Justice the reasonable man will
say; ‘Evidently he did not wish
for such appointments.’ The
stupid or the malicious man will
say, however: ‘We frightened
him out of taking them.’ ”
The Prime Minister paused,
then turned to me and smiled.
“One of the mistakes that
people make in this life,” he said,
“is in paying too much attention
to the stupid and to the
malicious It is only the
sensible and reasonable person
who should be taken seriously.”
As against the noted similar
careers of Menzies and Evatt,
there are also some curious
paradoxes in their lives.
Evatt, the Labor leader, is
reputed to be a man of wealth.
Menzies, the non-Labor leader
and alleged representative in
Parliament of “the wealthy
classes,” though once indeed on
the highway to a personal
fortune which might have been
considerable, voluntarily re-
nounced the means of attaining
it; and those who know him
well would be astonished if his
estate cut-up larger than that of
the late Mr. Chifley, who left
£13,407.
Again, it is not inconceivable
that had contemporary political
circumstances been different
Menzies and Evatt might have
waged their fight for personal
supremacy within the ranks of
the same political party.
In the early years of his
Federal political career rumor
repeatedly had it that Evatt was
toying with the notion of throw-
ing in his lot with the United
Australia party, the forerunner
of the present Liberal party.
Whether these rumors had any
basis is not so important as the
fact that experienced political
observers could take them up and
discuss them seriously.
No such affiliation, for
instance, could ever have earned
space in a newspaper in respect
of the late J. B. Chifley. Perhaps
it was the credibility of these old
rumors —or slanders, as Evatt
himself would undoubtedly
regard them —as well as his
academic background, which
helped to prolong Evatt’s struggle
for acceptance within the ranks
of the deepest-hued Labor sup-
porters, the members of the
party’s industrial-wing.
Such speculation about his
real political convictions—or, at
least, his party affiliations —has
long ago become academic, how-
ever. For better or worse, Evatt
stands today with Labor, The
most that could happen would
be that the Labor party might
split, as it has split before, into
Right- and Left-wing fragments,
with Evatt leading a new party
of the Right against a new and
radical Labor group.
However this issue resolves
itself, it does seem almost to
have been ordained by some
extra-terrestrial law that Menzies
and Evatt should oppose one
another at all stages, and in most
matters of substance, throughout
their public careers. The climax
of that opposition is now at
hand. For it is widely believed
in Canberra that the coming
election will destroy irrevocably
the political future of the loser.
This is probably more true in
the case of Evatt than of
Menzies. The Labor party has
never wholeheartedly accepted
Evatt as leader in the sense that
it accepted Chifley and Curtin.
Even at the peak of his influence
in the party in 1952, when the
jackals howled about the Govern-
ment camp and Labor enjoyed
tremendous “negative” support
throughout the country, there
were those who submitted to
his leadership only sullenly.
Since then, as he played
steadily for the “middle-class”
vote, and as the Right-wing of
his party moved further into the
ascendant, he himself appeared
to lose touch and sympathy with
the Left-wing. Today, according
to Menzies, the Labor party is
“bursting at the seams” with
internal dissension. Making due
allowance for the purely party-
political content of that remark
there is more than a fleeting truth
in it.
The forthcoming election will
no doubt be the arbiter between
the two groups; and in the event
of a general Labor defeat it
would be a political miracle if
Evatt could retain the leadership.
He would unquestionably be
blamed for compromising some
of the party’s cardinal historical
principles in a vain attempt to
win the floating-vote. The archi-
tect and symbol of Labor’s third
successive defeat at the polls,
he would stand as a failure at
the bar of the caucus. It would
not be within human nature to
concede him another chance.
Menzies, as leader of the
Liberals, has at least been tried
three times at the ballot-box and
not found wanting. His seven
years (in two terms) as Prime
Minister, his 10 years of Liberal-
party leadership, his undoubted
stature in national and } inter-
national experience and states-
manship, would not lightly be
discarded by his followers.
Yet it is extremely doubtful
if he would wish to carry-on for
long as Liberal leader in the
event of the present Govern-
ment’s defeat in 1954.
Of course, even a man of
Menzies’s talents is as much a
victim of the powerful challenge
and fascination of politics as any
of his colleagues. It is easy to
resolve voluntarily to abandon
a political career ; it is less easy,
when the hour of decision
arrives, to act upon that resolve.
It is quite possible that
Menzies does not yet really know
his own mind on this subject.
He has probably never dissected
his feelings to the point where
he can say with certainty how
much of the temptation to cry
“Enough!” is real, and how
much a mere passing nostalgia
for the more “civilised” —and n
some ways, especially for him,
the more satisfying—profession
of the law.
There is no doubt, however,
that his family would take a
great joy in winning him back
from politics— not before he and
they felt his task had been
honorably completed, but before
he had been struck down, like
Chifley and Curtin and Lyons,
by overwork. So if, and when,
the opportunity of retiring volun-
tarily from the front ranks of
politics asserts itself the struggle
between his sense of service and
an alternative which may quite
well be the means of prolonging
his life will be dramatic, if
private.
Because Menzies is not a man
who crosses his bridges far in
advance —a propensity especially
unprofitable in politics—it does
The author of this series
of articles was for three
years Press-secretary to Mr.
Menzies.
not follow that he has not given
thought on a good many
occasions to this problem of his
future.
“When I cease to be Prime
Minister next time,” he said to a
friend back in 1951, “I shall
make it abundantly clear that I
shall never again be a candidate
for office. I may remain in
Parliament. But I shall speak
only when I feel that I can make
some worth-while contribution
to discussion on a vital issue, or
to the solution of some special
national problem.”
Such remarks, made in passing
conversation in off - duty
moments, are not, as I have
already said, always to be taken
seriously. But it is difficult to
reject the view that this appar-
ently unconsidered aside reflects
the stronger chances of the
situation.
There would always be a role
for him, even on the back
benches, as Elder Statesman. In
such a role, unfettered by the
necessities of practical com-
promise to which any leader of a
Government must submit him-
self, he could find zest exploding
his conviction on matters too
delicate for his free speech as
Prime Minister.
I do not believe that Menzies
has any ambition to begin again,
as he began 10 years ago, the
task of reorganising the routed
forces of non-Labor. As Mrs.
Menzies remarked in conversa-
tion one day during the course
of the vital Senate campaign in
1953: “If we cannot hold the
Senate, all our hard work since
1949 will be wasted.”
Defects of
Three-year Parliaments
ji/tENZIES has never seen one
three-year term of office as
sufficient for the inauguration
and full development of political
policies.
Since no man of experience in
politics or public administration
would dispute with him on this
issue, the wonder is that efforts
to secure four- or five-year
Federal Parliaments in Australia
have not been pressed more.
As is so often the case, the
necessity to alter the Constitu-
tion probably deters reformers.
Even the more urgent task of
Senate-reform has already been
deferred too long.
Given favorable economic and
political conditions in which to
work, it probably takes from
four to five years for a Govern-
ment to apply policy in such a
manner as to secure results which
are significant, and on which it
can be fairly judged by an
electorate.
It is no accident that a
country like Russia, where policy


can be arbitrarily planned and
enforced in fairly orderly stages,
the unit of time for the com-
pletion of each stage has been
fixed at five years. Great Britain,
of course, has long enjoyed five-
year Parliaments, except where
an interim crisis has thrown a
Government out of office before
its time.
Australia, on the other hand,
is probably plagued by more
elections than any other country
of the free world. Particularly
since the war, Federal and State
political issues have become so
intertwined that it no longer
seems possible to hold a State
election into which Federal issues
are not obtruded, or a Federal
election in which individual State
issues do not affect the minds of
the voters.
So a relatively stable term of
even three years’ continuous
office becomes ever more of an
administrational dream; and
Governments are more and more
vulnerable to political pressure-
groups which seek to influence
policy between elections. Since
1941 there have hardly been six
consecutive months in which the
Government has been able to act
without being warned that it
had better trim its sails for some
election or by-election.
It cannot be seriously argued
that this constant temptation to
play to the gallery is a good
influence on Governments which
aim at responsible, long-term
administration rather than the
distribution of bread and the
promotion of circuses.
Power corrupts; but most
students of politics will agree
that the complete process usually
takes longer than three years.
And it is a mistake to regard
politicians as being, in the main,
men of evil intent who must be
recalled to face the electorate
before they have had time
properly to settle into office and
firmly grasp the threads of
national affairs.
The Deputy-Leader of the
Labor party, Mr. Calwell, de-
clared last year in his customarily
forthright manner;
“Give us [the Labor party]
ten years and we shall change the
face of Australia.”
In Mr. Calwell’s view, five or
six years—two consecutive terms
of office —are not enough.
Labor, he says by inference, is
not to be judged fairly on its
record after much less than 10
years of office.
So when Mrs. Menzies said
that if the Senate had been losl
‘all our work will be wasted”
she echoed her husband’s convic-
tion that, though the Government
at the time went to the polls
“on its record,” it required some
years more before that record
could stand as a complete edifice
and be judged as other than a
structural skeleton.
The turbulence caused by
inflation; the 17 months when
the Government was without a
majority in the Senate (from
December, 1949, to April, 1951),
and therefore without the means
to enforce its policy except by
consent of the Labor party ; the
changing balances of power
caused by two Federal and
several State elections since
December, 1949—a1l this means
that during its four-and-a-half
years of office the present Gov-
ernment has operated in condi-
tions far from that stability
normally required for an effective
establishment and exposition of
policy.
(The Labor party, of course,
could advance the same argu-
ment in respect to its eight years
of office which ended in 1949,
years of even greater upheaval
and change than those which
have passed since.)
It is against this background
that Menzies’s future must be
considered. If he were defeated
this year he would be out of
office for at least three, and
possibly six, years or more.
Then, assuming he still remained
leader of a successful non-Labor
party, it would take him at least
another six years to adapt the
machinery of Government once
more to a Liberal philosophy.
My own belief is that, for
personal reasons, he would not
wish to attempt the task. Having
for 25 consecutive years servec
his country with characteristic
vigor and determination, he
would, I think, wish to surrender
the helm to other hands and
resume the normal family life
which public service has for so
long denied him the opportunities
to enjoy. He would probably
remain in Parliament and take
up again, on a moderate scale,
his work at the Bar.
It is hard to see him following
Bruce to Britain and the House
of Lords —a favorite columnists’
topic when “hard” news is scarce.
For all his regard for the Mother
Country, his regard for and faith
in Australia are even more
intense.
Lord Bruce, moreover, had no
children. Menzies has children
and grandchildren in Victoria, an
anchor no less upon his own
heart than upon that of his wife.
Bruce’s years as Australian
High Commissioner in London
led, on his retirement, to his
acquisition of extensive British
business commitments. Before
he made those commitments,
however, and despite many years’
continuous residence in London,
he yet showed himself willing,
even eager, to return and serve
his own country at home.
That was in 1946 ; and it was
not until his country had showed
itself officially—and, as many
will believe, stupidly—indifferent
to his offer that he went back
to England and a viscountcy.
Menzies, without Bruce’s long
years of “anglicisation,” would,
1 believe, be even more deter-
mined to remain at home and
continue his public service on a
modified scale.
If a final reason need be
adduced for this opinion, let it
be that his own pride would
hardly permit him to “escape” to
Britain as the result of a local
electoral defeat. Menzies may
suffer from certain faults. But,
in the vernacular, he is no
squealer. He knows—none
better —how to meet and with-
stand defeat.
He has probably taken harder
knocks than any other man in
public life in this country. He
is well equipped to go on taking
them, if necessary ; and it would
be utterly out of character for
him to retreat beyond his own
home city of Melbourne to lick
his wounds.
One advantage of his retire-
ment to something approaching
private life would be the proba-
bility of a stream of essays,
reminiscences and political writ-
ing from his very capable pen.
If his opportunity to do such
writing never comes, much will
be lost to the nation.
Retirement, however, is far
from the Prime Minister’s
thoughts at this moment. His
whole strength and purpose are
now concentrated upon the task
of defeating Dr. Evatt at the
coming poll, just as Evatt’s over-
whelming determination is to
unseat the Prime Minister,
The chief public manifesta-
tion of this mutual antagonism
has been in the opposing leaders’
speeches in Parliament. Of the
two, it has to be admitted that
Menzies has been the principal
coat-jailer. He rarely misses an
opportunity of sharpening his
tongue on “the learned Doctor” ;
and the main target of his irony
since 1951 has been what he
regards as the inconsistency of
many of Evatt’s economic
arguments.
Dr. Evatt, perhaps recognising
his limitations as a debater —he
is comprehensive rather than
colorful has deliberately
refrained from attempts to return
Menzies’s whiplash in kind.
He has probably won political
points by his restraint, and the
Prime Minister has probably lost
them by his lack of it. The
sympathy of the average Aus-
tralian is with the underdog
When Menzies is at his scathing
best, Evatt is palpably the under-
dog ; and the mutterings of
resentment which a Menzies
speech of this kind provokes in,
for instance, the theoretically
neutral Parliamentary Press
gallery are, one suspects, matched
before a good many radio-sets
throughout the country.
Yet it is a curious reaction.
For there is nothing unfair in a
brilliant debater’s using all his
eloquence to demolish if possible
the stature and arguments of his
opponent. Dr. Evatt is perfectly
free to employ the same tactics if
he wishes—or if he is able.
The Prime Minister will not be
dissuaded from his verbal drub-
bings by those whom he regards
on such occasions as timid
counsellors. He is profoundly
convinced that Dr. Evatt’s advent
to the Prime Ministership would
bp disastrous, not simply for
himself but for his country—a
good deal more disastrous, in
fact, than would have been the
return of Mr. Chifley had he
lived.
Menzies, therefore, demands
the right to attack his rival with
ad the skill at his command and,
as a y° un g diplomat remarked
dryly one evening in the House,
Wlt h all known offensive
weapons—the needle, the rapier,
[he batfle-axe the bazooka and
the atomic bomb—at once!
,l n at A east one important sense
*is gulf between Menzies and
Dr. Evatt, modelled by Frith in 1939.
Evatt is unfortunate for Aus-
tralia. Menzies and Chifley were
able to meet often together with
mutual confidence and respect
to discuss current problems from
a national rather than a party-
political point of view. Before
1949 Menzies, as Opposition-
leader, could have been found
on many occasions in Prime
Minister Chifley’s office, the one
with a cigar, the other smoking
his well-known pipe, exchanging
views, on national topics with
amicable candor. Points of dis-
agreement were not labored too
much if they were not highly
political. Private agreement was
sought wherever possible on
matters of national moment.
That was a good thing for the
nation ; but, since 1951, I have
never known such informal meet-
ings to take place between
Menzies and Evatt, though they
have frequent contact on formal
occasions, when their demeanor
towards each other is irreproach-
able.
It seems a matter for regret
that in present circumstances
nothing much can be done to
restore the kind of relations
which have existed in former
years between Prime Minister
and Opposition-leader.
At the forthcoming elections,
therefore, Menzies and Evatt will
be pitted against one another not
merely as protagonists of the
country’s two great political
causes. Each will be fighting for
his own political life, with the
stakes greater, perhaps, for Evatt,
who has yet to reach his Everest,
than for Menzies, who has been
standing on the summit for some
years.
With each goaded by a per-
sonal rancor against the other,
that should make the campaign
one of the liveliest and most
memorable in Federal political
history.
#« Momwr n (irenf Leader*
M vu ‘ *
T s Menzies a great leader? Is
he a great statesman? Will
he, in each of these roles, survive
the test and judgment of history?
At least a generation, perhaps
two or more, will have to pass
before his claim to either of those
titles can be regarded as secure.
History deals in centuries; and
no man’s contemporaries can
determine his true place in the
long human scroll.
These issues have been very
pertinently analysed by Baron
Law, son of the great British
Prime Minister Bonar Law, who
died on October 30, 1923.
What Baron Law said in a
recent address to his constituents
is so strikingly applicable to
Menzies that it is worth quoting
him at some length:
“No man,” said Law, “can
be a great party- and Parlia-
mentary-leader without having
great qualities—moral as well as
intellectual qualities.
“It is no easy matter to lead
or drive or steer some hundreds
of individuals —each with an
opinion of his own, each, prob-
ably, with an ambition of his
own, each with his own solution
to every problem that arises—to
a goal that will reconcile them
all. The great party-leader must
have the guile of the serpent and
the patience of the dove.
“He must have, too, an over-
riding integrity, because no man
will command the confidence of
his fellows in the House of
Commons unless they know in
their hearts that he is a man of
principle, a man who is serving
some purpose other than, and
greater than, his own.
“I know that integrity of
character and purpose is some-
thing that is not generally
associated with party-politics or
with the party-politician. And
yet it is an essential part of his
equipment, as essential, say, as
the capacity for public speech—
or the capacity for compromise.
For that, too, is involved. It is
just that, indeed —the necessity
for compromise—which makes
integrity the more necessary, the
more difficult to realise, and the
more admirable when it is
realised.
“There are many men of
integrity in politics, and there
are many with the capacity for
compromise. But the men of
integrity will often refuse to com-
promise, so that the facts over-
whelm them ; and those with the
capacity for compromise are
sometimes tempted to com-
promise even their integrity.
“The great Parliamentary-
leader, therefore, must combine
the capacity for compromise with
a fundamental integrity of
character and purpose....
“You may have read of Bonar
Law that he hesitated long
before making up his mind, and
this gave an appearance of
infirmity of purpose which was,
I think, altogether illusory. Often
when he was faced with a
problem he would talk all round
it, sometimes from this angle,
sometimes from that, but he was
only arguing with himself, as it
were. When the argument was
over, he was inflexible.”
As a leader, there is only one
measuring-rod by which a man
can be judged: Has he kept his
team together and inspired it and
led it to victory?
In his pre-war and early war-
time days as Prime Minister,
Menzies did not do this. His
claim to the title can, therefore,
be considered only in respect to
what he has done since—his
foundation of the Liberal party ;
his election to its top job; his
determined fight for victory in
1949, again in 1951, and yet
again in 1953 ; his eminence in
the world scene ; his management
of his Cabinet and Parliamentary
colleagues and followers during
the Government’s precipitous fall
from grace in the eyes of the
country after the introduction of
the 1951 Budget.
The history of the earlier
events just mentioned is well-
enough known in Australia. But
not everyone has yet recognised
the magnitude of the test which
he survived in 1952 amid the
great national and party dis-
content which accompanied the
injection into the Australian
economic bloodstream of the
Government’s anti - inflationary
serum.
To those who watched him
closely at this time it seenr
almost axiomatic that had he not
towered so far above everyone
else in his side he could not have
held the Government and its fol-
lowers together behind him in the
face of the violent public and
political hostility which raged
round him throughout that year.
If, in this crisis, there were
“caves” within the Government
parties which met in private and
canvassed the possibilities of a
change of leadership to win back
public opinion they could not
have had the red Jflood of real
revolution in their veins.
They always foundered on the
same rock: who in Australia —
in the eyes of Australia! —could
possibly take his place as the
country’s non-Labor leader?
And so the lions of the lobbies
became lambs in the party-room;
and the remainder of their col-
leagues, who were the vast
majority—some moved by
simple loyalty, some by admira-
tion, some by personal regard,
some by respect, some by mere
instinct, and some, let it be said,
out of sheer inability to put up
an effective alternative —gave him
their continuing support in
adversity, as they had when the
political wind was blowing for
them in the right quarter.
It was not easy, of course, to
carry any issue against Menzies
if the subjects in dispute were
submitted to the ordinary pro-
cesses of argument. In the party-
room, as in public, the force of
his logic was such that few were
able to get to their feet and
inspire any conviction in their
fellows that what the Prime
Minister advocated was wrong.
Politically unpopular it might
be, for the time being; but
Menzies convinced them that it
was the right thing for the
country at that time.
Members with borderline
seats were driven by every
instinct of self-preservation to
fight the stringencies which the
Menzies Cabinet said were
inevitable. But when they were
nailed down the overwhelming
majority of them had to admit
that the Government was simply
acting as an honest Government
should act.
It is fair to argue that Menzies
commanded support at that time
for policies which were against
the self-interest of many of his
followers because they recog-
nised in their hearts, to use the
words of Baron Law, that “Here
was a man of principle, a man
{Continued on page 34)


Would you like
good whisky better?
BEIXS
fycotch I
0V
*OO% SCOTCH
■XSTIUCO AMO BttMO*
;IM SCOTUAHO
D| STIUERSw«w scp
,8*»
PeciAL
'•■oowc* o* * c ° r ~Z*
There’s nothing better than a real
old Scotch Whisky. Or is there?
If whisky is really good, made in
Scotland, well matured—can one
ask for anything more? We think
so. You can ask for just one thing
more—that it should bear the
name ‘BellV. We have been distilling
and blending whisky since 1825.
We hope and believe that Bell’s
Whisky is as near perfection as
can be.
We are one of the few old firms of
independent distillers. We value
our Independence. It gives us the
opportunity to go on making, as
we have done for some 125 years,
the finest whisky our long
experience can produce. But you.
Sir, are the man to judge. Buy a
bottle Of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if you
do not savour that subtle flavour
which is Scotch Whisky at its
spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
c£U
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jr-
JACKSOIV <s,
riSUIJUVAJi
pIYWtt
Jackson & O’Sulliyan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
imgAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
New Zealand stayers Gold
Scheme and Lancaster were
equal favorites for the Sydney
Cup last Saturday morning, but
a few hours later Carioca had
gone to the head of the tabula-
tion following a good perform-
ance in the Flying Handicap at
Canterbury. He finished on
strongly in third place to
Karendi and Regoli.
Gold Scheme is expected to
make his first race-appearance
in Sydney this week and his
showing will be watched with
special interest, as befits his out-
standing New Zealand form.
Another New Zealander ex-
pected in Sydney soon is Lan-
caster, who recently won the
Autumn Handicap (two miles)
at Trentham in 3min. 19isec.,
equalling Comic Court’s Aus-
tralian record for the distance,
so he must be good. He carried
8.4, and, with a 71b. penalty, is
similarly handicapped in the
Sydney Cup.
Trainer Jack Green has won
successive sprints at Canterbury
with Silver Phantom, favorite
for the Doncaster, and with
Karendi, also well favored for
the big mile. On form so far
disclosed he would be likely to
lean more to Silver Phantom.
• • • •
Sky Hawk’s record-time win
in the Canterbury Welter with
9.12 brought him Doncaster
admirers, but he seems a welter
type only and would be tested
by superior class to that which
followed him home on Satur-
day.
. . . • *
Though Royal Stream staged
a convincing win in the Canter-
bury Cup, trainer Fred Cush is
of opinion that the gelding has
no more than a rough chance of
contesting the Doncaster. Cush,
one of the best men in Australia
with horses, does not favor
being hard on young horses.
Royal Stream is a three-year-
old, and few of that age have
won the mile in the past 20
years. Those who have done
so have been Blue Legend,
Bernbrook and Oversight. Royal
Stream has 7.9 in the Doncaster,
or 91b. less than he won with at
Canterbury, but he will strike a
much better field if he contests
the big mile on April 17.
m • 9 0
Dogger Bank (imp.) had a
winner in two States last Satur-
day, Sweet Adeline at Canter-
bury and The Wash at Eagle
Farm; both are two-year-olds.
He also is sire of a recent Canter-
bury winner, Zoutman. The
Wash is a gelding from Cardo-
ness by Foxbridge (imp.) from
My Own by Lord Quex (imp.).
Raced by M. J. Raper, the
youngster was purchased at last
year’s New Zealand yearling-
sales for 1400 guineas. The
Wash is a half-brother to Ocean
Spray, a Randwick winner and
placegetter in the Canterbury
Guineas and in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes.
• • • •
Jack King, trainer and part-
owner of two-year-old Motif,
had reason for being upset over
the start of the Canterbury
Maiden for fillies, as the well-
backed youngster appeared a
certainty beaten! The filly was
restive at the barrier and was
placed outside the starting-gates,
where she was held by an
attendant. Standing flat-footed
when the gates flew open releas-
ing the rest of the field on even
terms, she was last away. As the
filly went through the field for
third placing her effort was full
of merit. It might have been
better for the jockey (W. Camer)
to have taken a chance of get-
ting away on his own. Sydney
Turf Club and the A.J.C. might
consider a suggestion that when
a horse plays up so badly that
it cannot be placed in a starting-
stall, it be declared a non-runner,
or that some other provision be
made to meet such an emergency.
New Zealand-bred twp-year-
olds won the respective divisions
of the Maiden event for that
age-group at Canterbury. In the
fillies’ race Maurice McCarten
had a surprise winner. Sweet
Adeline, a Dogger Bank (imp.)
youngster from Lady Adorn-
ment. Grey Phero, who seemed a
bit lucky to have got up on the
inside of pacemaker Streamwood
through smart riding on the part
of N. Sellwood (who also scored
on Sweet Adeline) to win the
colts’ division, is raced by R, S.
Burnstein, who has long been
associated with racing and has a
leaning to greys. Others he raced
included Grey Theo and Ascham
Lady.
The doubles-tote at Canterbury
held a record £36,260 for a meet-
ing conducted by the S.T.C. It
was nearly £lO,OOO more than
was held on the corresponding
day of last year. Presence of
Carioca proved a drawcard.
Randwick veterinary surgeon
Viv Davis derived much satis-
faction fom Sir Coral’s success
in the Queen’s Cup at Adelaide,
in which the 10-to-l chance beat
Captain Hunter and Three Macs.
The Queen presented the Royal
trophy to the winning owner.
“ That's the shot , old boy. Keep staring him straight
in the eye till I reload.”
Davis bred the horse, who was
reared at Kia-Ora Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), and sold him as a
yearling at the 1950 yearling-
sales for 2700gns. Sir Coral, a
good middle-distance winner in
Western Australia, is a half-
brother to Right Royal, dead-
heater for first in an A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap, and is
related to The Duchess, a Rand-
wick winner in Davis’s colors
several seasons ago. The Queen s
Cup winner is by Channel Swell
(imp.) from Kirrang by Magpie
(imp.) from Wattle by Valais
(imp.).
Withdrawal of Prince Morvi
from the Sydney Cup cost
early-doubles backers much
ready cash. Prince Morvi didn’t
recover from a recent injury;
hence his withdrawal from all
autumn engagements.
Invasion, a New Zealand mare
at the stud for some years now,
is dam of Hunter’s Sun, a four-
year-old gelding who won a
Wyong Maiden. He is by
Gynerium (imp.), sire of many
winners in New Zealand.
Gynerium comes from a family
which produced some noted
sires, including Beau Pere (imp.),
Mr. Standfast (imp.). Spearhead
(imp.) and Musket (imp.), sire
of Carbine. Though it has
taken Hunter’s Sun some time
to come good, he has staying
blood and could develop along
those lines.
• « • •
With record yearling cata-
logues the 1954 order, it seems
amazing where all the new
owners will come from. Costs
to owners are at their highest
peak, but each year newcomers
add to the list. There will, how-
ever, have to be quite a lot more
new owners if all the yearlings
listed this season are to find new
homes. The Randwick yearling-
catalogue for next month’s
auction is a record 795; as
usual, the sale will extend over
four days. Training facilities in
the Sydney area are restricted
compared with what they were
a few seasons ago, and race-
clubs may have to make some
arrangements to cater for all
these new horses. Compilation
of the huge catalogue involved
many months’ study and work
by Claude Magennis, a noted
authority on the breeding
industry in this country.
Buyers at the Randwick year-
ling auction, the most important
to date, will find many new
names in the sires’ list. The
progeny of some of these
highly-priced and royally-bred
importations are expected to
create keen competition at the
April sales, and it will interest
to see how the best of them
compare with the sons and
daughters of leading sire Delville
Wood (imp.), located at Kia-Ora,
Scone (N.S.W.).
More than 20 Delville Woods
will be auctioned at the sales.
Hydrogen is his best winning son.
Brothers to him, to Forest Beau
and to Redeswood will come
under the hammer.
Four French-bred sires will be
represented for the first time at
these Randwick sales. Charleval
is a son of French Derby-winner
Tourbillon. There are several of
his stock listed. Damnos is by
Djebel and was one of the best
French sprinters of his time.
Emperor is another son of
Djebel; while Royal Empire is
by Admiral Drake. First
of the progeny of Brim-
stone (imp.) appear early in
the catalogue. This new Kia-
Ora sire is a son of Dante, a
winner of the English Derby.
Brimstone won up to a mile and
three-quarters, but did little
racing. Other English sires will
be represented for the first time.
In past years the third and
fourth days of the A.J.C.’s spring
racing carnival have fallen away
in class, competition and
attendance. This year the club
has revised the spring pro-
gramme, with major races
extended over the four days. The
Derby will be run on the open-
ing day, as usual, but the Epsom
has been shifted to the Monday
holiday and the Metropolitan to
the final day. Other races, too,
will be changed to spread them
better over the four days.
Sydney colt Van Hall was the
unlucky runner of the Victoria
Trotting Derby final, in which
he started at odds-on and owas
beaten by Mineral Spring, also
from Sydney, with Melbourne’s
best three-year-old, Darryl’s
Pride, third. Van Hall broke
badly at the start, and, though
he made up a lot of ground, that
settled his winning chance. He
also broke again during the race.
A protest failed.
When offered as a yearling at
the Randwick sales last April the
colt by Stockade (imp.) from
Night Light (imp.) didn’t reach
the breeders’ reserve and was
passed in at 475gns. Now racing
as Blazing Star, he recently won
at Newcastle. He has a sound
breeding-background; his dam,
Night Light, is by Hot
Night from Dawn (half-
sister to Tiffin, unbeaten winner
of £16,516 in stakes), by
Chaucer from Dawn-Wind
(related to Beau Le Havre) by
Sunstar. Blazing Star is a half-
brother to Deliverance, a winner
on Sydney and Adelaide tracks
and is similarly related to Lunar,
a winner of several races on
Sydney courses a few seasons
ago.
* * * *
“Bosey”: The Enzedders, on
their way home from the veldt,
took on the three southern States,
playing fine cricket in each game,
and thus rounded-off Australia’s
big-cricket season. S’Africa won
the Test series handsomely, but
N.Z. has come on in the last few
years. Those who showed out in
Australia include left-hand bats-
man Bert Sutcliffe, worthy
possessor of an honored cricket
name, who’s been leading the
side since skipper Rabone was
hurt; John Reid, N.Z.’s Keith
Miller; a Miller by name
(Laurie), left-hand bat, who had
a partnership of 229 with Sutcliffe
in Adelaide; and burly 16st.
opening-bat John Leggat, who’d
not been in the original team but
only joined it in Perth.
“Mid-on”: In Otago (N.Z.)
J. Marr, in a junior game, took
7 for 2, bowling four with suc-
cessive balls and hitting the
middle-stump six times. Yet his
team lost. But Marr wasn’t put
on till the opposition had passed
his side’s total.
“K.R.”: Don Blackie, former
Victorian and Australian spin-
bowler, who’s taking a holiday
abroad, was one of the famous
spin-combination for St. Kilda
and Victoria of which the other
was Bert Ironmonger. Blackie’s
main claim to fame is that he
made his Test debut at the oldest
age for an Australian (nearly
47). He played in three of the
1928 Tests against England.
Oldest-aged Test debut of all was
that of English trundler J.
Southerton, just over 49 when
he played the first of his two
Tests back in 1876-77.
•
There are two Billy Watsons
in first-class cricket —the dour
Yorkshire left-hander and one
lately arrived in the N.S.W. side.
Both were recently among the
runs. The Billy Watson
who made 109 in his first Test
against Australia made his
highest score, 257 for the M.C.C.
against British Guiana, partner-
ing Graveney in a fourth-wicket
stand of 402. In Sydney, against
S.A., the other Billy Watson
was in an opening partnership
with Briggs of 161, failing by
18 to make a century in his
first Shield match.


HARGANS owner
tells of amazing tally |
Dear Sir,
Wa ff Va gga ,
6th ° ct °ber, 1953
D ® f Sf r -= ir “ a **- -a*
££ io^ Ba~ 8 a ~ iftlT <4)1 % r
I an. ... a few "in... r.>i. harl «nly on. e ,_ ° f 3 F ««
1 am verv ~i ,ur - °«e SWv« ,
fe d Wi,h 4. perto Par,S - S,X se “ of Rin
«-g anB SaK £* unit , h
lnil of .his a moinfet^
faithfully
P>
i/
ww;
VS
ssssss
..but the new
HARGANS Timber Ihfcf
does even better!
its
ADJUSTABLE CHASSIS
sees to that!
»
'Straddles and rips logs 2 ft. in
diameter! Cuts vertically 5 to 7 ft.
above ground! Cuts horizontally
as low as 12 ins. above ground!
Never before has a mobile power
saw been capable of such a range of
blade work. Whether felling or mill-
ing, the Hargans TIMBER CHIEF with
its flexible chassis gets the edge on
all other saws.
Set the saw to suit your own height,
too. Tall, short or anywhere in
between, the TIMBER CHIEF can be
"tailored to measure" for any cutting.
It's an exclusive feature.
Other outstanding chassis features
include:
• larger wheels • streamlined "easy
grip" handles o double fork assembly
• folding vee-strut • depth control
chain.
HARGANS OWNERS!
Convert your existing Hargans to a
"Timber Chief" at low cost. Send for
full details.
w
WALK IT AWAY...
Thanks to Hargans handy
positive self-drive (optional
extra), after only two
simple adjustments you can
squeeze the handle grips
and the simple, powerful
Hargans self-drive comes
into play to propel the
"Timber Chief" at norma!
walking speed, anywhere
you wish.
Note auxiliary blade
position for safe transport.
ŵ
ASK FOR A DEMONSTRATION ON YOUR OWN
LAND TO-DAY!
Australasian Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Phone BU 5095. Letters; Box 509, G.P.0., Sydney.
Branches at Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
H 512.153


Elements of an Industry
m
m
m
:--V
X<*7>
SILICON Silicon is, next to oxygen, the most abundant
of all the elements in the earth’s crust. It is never found free in
nature but occurs, combined with oxygen, in quartz, flint, sand-
stone and many other minerals. Emeralds, aquamarines and the
semi-precious stones, amethyst, opal _ and zircon, all contain
silicon. Pure silicon can be produced in two forms a ® a . a .
crystalline solid and as an amorphous brown powder but it is
chiefly important in compounds such as silicon dioxide (silica)
and metallic salts of silicic acid, known as silicates. Silica sand,
a nearly pure form of silica, is used in glass-making and in the
manufacture of silicon carbide, better known as Carborundum
an abrasive material almost as hard as diamond. Clay, an
important raw material in the manufacture of bricks, pottery and
Portland cement, is a compound of silicon, oxygen and alu-
minium. Silicon is also the basis of the complex organic com-
pounds known as “silicones”, now being developed for use in
paints, varnishes and lubricants. . ,
Silicate of soda, produced from sand and sodium carbonate, is
used as an adhesive in the manufacture of cardboard boxes. It
is also used in soap powders, in the surface treatment of con-
crete, and to make “waterglass” for egg-preserving. In addition,
sodium silicofluoride a by-product of fertilizer manufac-
ture used in the production of opal glass and vitreous enamels.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
w
L.. 518.4283
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST BE AGED
only in the wood can age
be achieved; and McCallum’s
is mellowed with years
of care, and by the
skilled attention of
Scots distillers.
/
a
■
the name is
CD c Collums
s m
the whisky is
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS
MolBa/6.2
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GENEVA CONFERENCE
It is probably typical of such
things that the Berlin conference,
called to discuss Germany and
Austria, reached no settlement on
those unhappy countries, but
produced instead an agreement
to discuss Korea and Indo-China
at the forthcoming Geneva talks.
The Western Allies took to
Berlin proposals for free elections
in a united Germany, for the
signing of the Austrian peace
treaty and for the withdrawal of
troops from that country.
Patently, they expected any such
submissions to be wiped by the
Russians, as they duly were.
Likewise, the Allies accorded
similar treatment to sundry
Russian proposals, including that
for a conference which would
recognise Communist China as
a Great Power. No doubt that,
too, was what the Russians
expected. What did come out at
the last moment, however, was
this agreement between the four
Foreign Ministers;
“A conference of the United
States, France, the United
Kingdom, the Union of Socialist
Soviet Republics, the Republic of
Korea (South Korea), the
People’s Democratic Republic of
Korea (North Korea) and other
countries the armed forces of
which participated in the hostili-
ties in Korea, and which desire
to attend, shall meet in Geneva
on April 26 for the purpose of
reaching a peaceful settlement of
the Korean question.”
Indo-China is also to be dis-
cussed, and, on the face of it
and for several reasons, the
agreement might be considered
a tactical win for Russian Foreign
Minister Molotov.
First, as “Pravda” has stated
(for Russia, of course), “The
most important demand in world
politics today is the demand to
re-establish the lawful rights of
the Chinese People’s Republic
in the United Nations.” Further
to which, London “Economist”
remarks:
“To be recognised as one of
the Big Five, as their only Asian
member, as superior to free
India and Japan, dealing, as an
equal to the United States and
to the Soviet Union, with the
world’s affairs —all that is clearly
the first objective of Chinese
policy.
“Such dignity was first
accorded to Chiang Kai-shek’s
Government when the United
Nations was founded, and China
was made one of the five per-
manent members of the Security
Council. But the seat is still
occupied by the representative
of the exiled Chiang, and to oust
him is as important for Mao
“New York Times.”
AND EVERY PLACE THAT MARY GOES
Tse-tung as it was in the past
for a Hanoverian King of
England to frustrate the Jacobite
pretenders. Lately, moreover,
the Chinese have made it clear
that they, like Mr. Molotov,
would like to arrange a five-
Power peace pact outside the
United Nations that would deal
with all international issues—a
sort of concert of continents.”
Molotov could have been
expected to wangle for anything
that would bring Communist
China closer to recognition. The
proposal to discuss Indo-China
was a good bargaining-point for
him, with France eager to be
free of that conflict —Mr. Dulles,
acutely aware of France’s pro-
crastinating attitude towards
E.D.C., commented that “There
was no way of avoiding a meet-
ing with Communist China with-
out serious political consequences
in France.”
On the face of it, then,
although Molotov didn’t get
what he demanded for China, he
did at least get a conference of
sorts with Red China and the
U.S.A. at the same table, and it
might be assumed that that was
just about what he expected to
get, particularly if one takes the
view of the “N. Y, Times” cor-
respondent who comments that
“the Communist Government of
China, which thus far has had to
conduct its relations with the
Western Powers by cable and
wireless, will [at Geneva] make
an eventful debut on the world’s
stage.
“It seems clear that the parti-
cipation of Communist China in
a high-level conference —as dis-
tinguished from the military
negotiations at Panmunjom —
will increase the pressure for its
admission to the United
Nations.”
On the other hand, although
it might look as if Molotov got
what he hoped for in the agree-
ment to meet at Geneva, he
certainly didn’t get what he
wanted. In the first place, Mr.
Dulles insisted regarding the
Geneva meeting that “neither
the invitation to nor the holding
of the abovementioned confer-
ence shall be deemed to imply
diplomatic recognition in any
case where it has not been
already accorded”—an explicit
and unequivocal assertion that
American recognition of Peking
will not be formally advanced by
the Geneva conference.
Second, Asian neutrals are
excluded against Chinese wishes,
and, third, nothing else in the
Asian scene —such as the future
of Formosa —will be discussed
except Korea and Indo-China.
Those conditions could at least
be classed as concessions which
Molotov was forced to make if
he wanted the Geneva talks to
eventuate.
It might also be noted that,
although the Geneva talks —
despite the restrictions Mr. Dulles
has imposed on them —look like
a tentative step towards some
sort of recognition by the U.S.A.
of Red China, Russia and China
are not alone in that ambition.
The Washington correspondent
of the “New Statesman” lately
reported “a recurrent rumor in
Washington that the U.S. may
slowly and tentatively hedge
towards the British attitude
[recognition] on Communist
China,” and mentioned Arthur
Dean (who represented U.N. at
the Panmunjom talks, and who
enjoys the confidence of the
Eisenhower Administration) and
U.S. Vice-President Richard
Nixon as being inclined that way.
There is, of course, the kind
of American public opinion,
natural if usually transient, which
says “We have no intention of
recognising the regime that
killed our men in Korea” (Phila-
delphia “Inquirer”). It is strong
enough at the moment to make
uncomfortable politics for the
Eisenhower Administration over
any U.S. move towards recog-
nition of Communist China.
In the light of those two
opposing factors the cautious
and noncommittal arrangements
for the Geneva talks might be
considered a rather neat bit of
diplomacy on the part of Mr.
Dulles —a concession to both
sides on the home-front, as well
as to that opinion (both British
and American) which holds that
to refuse Red China recognition
as one of the Great Powers is
the surest way to keep it under
Russian domination.
Molotov, also, although he
may be pushing the cause of Red
China, is almost certainly being
pushed by some of his own
problems. “The Korean situa-
tion,” comments London
“Economist,” “remains unsatis-
factory from the Soviet point of
view so long as strong American
forces remain on the mainland
of Asia in South Korea:
“There they—or some of them
—will obviously remain so long
as there is only an armistice and
not a peace settlement. To get
them out is a common interest
of Moscow and Peking, for they
are dangerously near to
Vladivostok as well as to
Mukden; and this may be
China’s main reason for accept-
ing the Geneva meeting. Mr.
Molotov cannot get American
forces out of Europe save at a
price that he is unwilling to pay ;
but he has some chance of get-
ting them off the Asian mainland
without great cost in power or
prestige. Some kind of settle-
ment may, therefore, be intended,
short of a ‘united and inde-
pendent Korea.’
“Even more important for
Mr. Molotov must have been
the wish to involve France in
negotiations over a settlement in
Indo-China, and thus indirectly,
but most effectively, to influence
French policy in Europe. The
United States Government has
always been anxious that any
Asian conference should cover
Indo-China, because it feared
that a settlement in Korea alone
would leave China free to turn
its energies southward.
“The French, too, wanted a
conference on Indo-China; hav-
ing failed to gain a military
victory against a Vietnamese
Communist army supplied from
China, they see no way to end
fighting save by negotiation with
the major Communist Powers,
which can at will increase or
reduce support for Ho Chi-minh.
“This is the possibility that
interests the Russians, who have
otherwise no stake in Indo-
China. By playing on French
hopes and fears there it may be
possible to keep M. Laniel’s
Government stalling on the
rearmament of Germany and the
creation of the E.D.C. By giving
way a little on China Mr.
Molotov may be able to undo
the effect in France of his giving
away nothing on Germany and
Austria.
“It is shrewd calculation and
one that had been foreseen. It
is almost as embarrassing to the
Americans as it is to the French.
M. Bidault, it is true, has declared
that he will not allow vague
hopes of what might happen in
Geneva to hold up progress with
France’s European policy. But
the French Assembly may think
differently; it may argue that
France cannot hold its own with
Germany in the European
Defence Community unless the
drain on its strength is checked
in Indo-China.
“If so, the Americans and the
British may find themselves asked
to give yet a little more in
guarantees and assurances to
France, in order to prevent
success at Geneva becoming the
condition of success with the
E.D.C.
“The Western Ministers will
need to prepare very carefully for
the Geneva meeting. It may lead
to yet another meeting, and then
another, until Europe and Asia
are involved in a chain of inter-
linked conferences, slowly pro-
ducing piecemeal and minute
improvements in the international
situation. There is a lot to be
said for piecemeal negotiation
and improvement; it is the
method that Mr. Eden has con-
sistently advocated against Mr.
Molotov’s broad sweeps of talk.
But it must not be allowed to
interfere with the organisation of
Western Europe and the recon-
ciliation of France and Germany.
These are things good in them-
selves, not to be bargained
about.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
(Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
helps you
SAVE MONEY. SAVE DELAYS
with electric welding
I I
m
Ml t * M
%
mm
m
mm
m
°* m
&0T! i
Try it with a 6 Gauge Rod .. . That's the
proof of a heavy-duty welder. You can take a 6 gauge rod and run it
continuously with Mobile©, the farm welder of industrial performance.
Guaranteed full 200 amps. . . . Simple to operate with instruction book to
help you do a first class job with very little practice.
The trailer is certainly handy. You can leave your welder on it all the time
and just hitch and unhitch at will. Generator drives from telescopic p.t.o.
shaft. Trailer with pneumatic wheels and roller bearings fits any make of
tractor.
SPECIAL CHARGING BOARD is
available so that you can use the
machine to charge batteries and a
low cost volt meter and adaptor can
be fitted to enable you to drive 32
volt drills, etc., from the welding
generator at reduced engine speed.
The Mobilco welder can be bought
on terms and it carries a 6 months
guarantee.
ŵ
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS ------- ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Sharing the Atom
There is little difference be-
tween comment in Britain and
the U.S. on President Eisen-
hower’s urge to Congress to
“liberalise” the U.S. Atomic
Energy Act.
“It is,” notes “Yorkshire Post,”
“only eight years since the first
Act laid down the security con-
ditions for the United States.
Since then developments have
moved at a speed which puts into
the shade anything in the history
of steam or petrol as sources of
applied power.
“The hydrogen-bomb in par-
ticular has advanced at a terrify-
ing rate. Only lately it was
announced that the ‘device,’ as it
was cosily called, exploded at
Eniwetok in the autumn of 1952
could cause complete devastation
oyer an area six miles in
diameter. The complete erasing,
as Hitler would have called it, of
a town roughly the size of Leeds
can now be brought about by a
single bomb.
‘And, though it is clearly
impossible to speak with cer-
tainty, it is extremely probable
that the Russians are catching up.
A recently-published American
study on ‘Soviet Economic
Growth’ shows that this is true
of the general economic develop-
ment. It is likely to be even
more true of atomic develop-
ment.
“The right course is un-
doubtedly to share information
on atomic weapons if only to
allow the allies of the United
States to play an effective part
in combined operations and
planning.”
Typical of American com-
ment, “N. Y. Times” remarked
editorially:
“The risks we may run are
decreased, and the advantages
we can gain are enhanced, by the
great changes that have taken
place in the atomic world since
the present Act was passed.
Then, in 1946, atomic weapons
were still in their infancy and
we had a monopoly of them, in
trust for freedom.
“Since then generations of
normal scientific progress have
been compressed into one fateful
decade. Atomic weapons have
become an almost normal and
conventional equipment of our
armies and are spreading to the
sea and to the air, requiring new
tactics and a new strategy.
“What is even more decisive,
our monopoly has been broken
by Soviet Russia, which has
developed not only atomic
weapons, but the even more
dreadful hydrogen-bomb. That
means few atomic secrets remain.
“There are good reasons to
believe that we still hold the lead
in atomic weapons. But our
allies, held back in their own
atomic development by the
tremendous expense involved, do
not share in this lead, and cannot,
therefore, participate in the
common defence as effectively as
they could on the basis of the
Eisenhower programme. Indeed,
a greater share in our atomic
lead would enable our European
allies to establish a better balance
of power in Europe itself.”
Talk
In the eight years since the
war the East and West have
talked at 3802 meetings on
major issues which, as “U.S.
News and World Report”
analyses them, have occupied
11,400 hours and 120 million
words enough to fill 680
volumes of 400 pages each. It
would need a 35ft. bookshelf to
accommodate the volumes—to
play it back on records would
take one year, three months and
nine days of continuous 24-hour
playing.
The one tangible result? A
truce in Korea (575 meetings and
18,100,000 words) which the
Communists considered to be a
victory.
° n world P eace 20,300,000
words have been spoken at 646
London “Daily Minor"
MAKING GEOGRAPHY AS WELL AS HISTORY
(London “Daily Mirror” comment on the complete obliteration of a Pacific island by a hydrogen-bomb.)
meetings in the U.N. Security
Council, and a further 14,800,000
words at 471 meetings in the
U.N. General Assembly. Re-
sult; No peace.
The Austrian Treaty has
taken up 378 meetings and
11.900.000 words. Result; No
treaty.
There were 21 meetings and
660.000 words about the Berlin
blockade without any agree-
ment being reached —the air-lift
ended the blockade.
The control of atomic-bombs
has been the subject of 207
meetings and 6,500,000 words.
Result: No agreement.
Talk on German unity has
run to 43,500,000 words at
1380 meetings. Result: No
unity.
Ten meetings and 315,000
words have been devoted to the
Berlin air-corridor. No agree-
ment.
The Korean political settle-
ment has so far run through 20
meetings and 630,000 words. No
agreement.
And talks on disarmament
have scored 94 meetings,
3,000,000 words and, of course,
no agreement.
On the evidence it boils down
to the fact that, when the
Russians get what they want
(Yalta, Potsdam, etc.), they are
remarkably taciturn; when
they don’t, they talk. And at
that they are bobby-dazzlers.
“Words,” concludes “U.S.
News and Word Report,” “are
a favorite weapon of the Com-
munists. They use them to
take-over labor unions and
other organisations. And they
use them to take-over nations —
and to win international con-
ferences.”
"Them"
Porridge may now be ordered
by mail in America, and is de-
livered ready-made in “tastefully-
decorated individual containers.”
All things considered, Edinburgh
“Scotsman’s” comment on the
subject is surprisingly temperate:
“Porridge, besides being a
palatable and sustaining food,
has acquired a mystique of its
own in the Scottish legend. To
the Scot abroad, and perhaps
even more to the second and
third generation of emigrants, it
is no longer a daily food but, like
haggis, almost a sacramental dish
to be taken ceremonially in
conscious devotion to the ties
of blood and race.
“To ea, ‘thenf-for real
porridge is always plural—is ;o
partake in full fellowship with a
hardy race whose simple fare
nurtured strong constitutions
and noble minds, and produced
a native genius to which all the
world has paid tribute.
“If that is borne in mind, it is
perhaps not so surprising as it
might otherwise well be to us
Scots at home to find that in
America porridge can now be
ordered by post—a delicacy cost-
ing sixpence a plate—dispatched
ready - made in tastefully
decorated individual containers.
“To those who still know
porridge in all their native glory,
who take them standing, and
din alternated in the famine
. , , , y . ,
b ° wl and the cool and creamy
accom P' a nying crock of milk,
and even to those lesser men
who SU P them seated at the
breakfast-table pouring the milk
upon them in slapdash modern
fashion, such potted, prefabri-
cated porridge cannot but appear
r
as a degenerate travesty of a
noble dish.
“But such men grow fewer in
these hasty days. A porridge-
pot of pasteboard may be a poor
substitute for the blackened
cauldron hung above the glowing
peat, or even for the double-
boiler on the gasring, but it is
infinitely better than no porridge-
pot at all.”
Dragnet Digest
Wot, No Pensions ?—Accord-
ing to Professor Daniel Lerner,
as reported by London “Daily
Telegraph,” the average age of
217 Russian generals who died
before Stalin’s death was 50.
The average age of death for
those who became generals
when over 50 was 63.5; those
promoted between 40 and 50
died at 49.3. Early promotion
seems largely fatal, those pro-
moted before 40 dying at an
average age of 37.8. The pickings
were good, however, for those
who could make it—a Russian
marshal gets 114 times the pay
of a Russian private, as against
a British field-marshal, who gets
29 times the pay of a British
private, and an American gen-
eral-of-the-armies, who gets 15
times the pay of a G.L
* * * *
Coffee. During the war
Brazil, which produces about
half the world’s coffee, accumu-
lated large stocks until, by
1948, it held about 9,500,000
bags (1,250,000,0001 b.). By
June, 1953, comments “New
York Times,” increasing world
demand had reduced Brazil’s
stocks to 3,000,000 bags, on top
of which frosts, coffee-blight
and pests cut the normal coffee-
harvest by one-fifth. By the
end of the year the shortage
made itself felt in American
markets, with the result that
prices increased tremendously.
They will go higher, and
“Brazilian growers think it will
take them two years to get back
to pre-frost production —if
weather permits.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Picture-house, Too
In her article on the drowning of
the N. S. Wales town of Adaminaby by
the Snowy River scheme (B. 13/l/’54)
Nancy Cato credited the town with three
important buildings—a church, a school
and a pub. There is another which some
might consider equally important. That
is the undistinguished-looking red-brick
place across the road from the pub,
adorned with colorful posters, in which
many an outlaw has been beaten to the
draw and many a master-gangster has
sneered his last sneer once nightly on
Wednesdays and Saturdays.
The patrons of the picture-house,
mostly juveniles, arrive armed with un-
limited supplies of bottled lemonade,
and the show goes on to the sound of
guzzling, and glugging, punctuated by
the clatter of the empties being dropped
from a height or skittled along the floor.
It makes an interesting change for the
visitor from Sydney, who is used to the
stolid champing of peanuts and rustling
of paper-bags.
To those whose idea of scenery is
something like Pittwater or Bulli Pass,
the Monaro ridge would probably appear
a dreary type of country, and its towns
such that they would be greatly improved
by being sunk in a lake. However, there
is in that neighborhood a very beautiful
valley, which is worth a visit by anyone
who has the time and the vehicle to
make the journey.
This is the valley of the Yarrangobilly.
a tributary of the Tumut, which gives
its name to the caves. To reach the
confluence of the two rivers a jeep or
four-wheel-drive truck is necessary. The
track, after leaving the Adaminaby-
Tumut road, crawls 14 precipitous miles
through dense forest, crossing and re-
crossing a creek and descending about
3000 ft. to a place called Lob’s Hole.
Whoever Lob may have been, he found
a pleasant place to live ; a green flat sur-
rounded by towering hills, beside a deep
pool in the river which provides good
bathing and fishing. Unfortunately, the
Snowy Mountains Authority has placed
one of its less attractive camps right at
the water’s edge, but there is still plenty
of scenery unspoiled.
Another journey of five level miles
brings the more persistent traveller up
the valley of the Yarrangobilly. As this
considerable river has to be crossed nine
times in the five miles, it is advisable to
go on foot unless your vehicle has a
formidable ground - clearance. The
scenery in this valley is in the best Wild
“Perpendicularly speaking, may I have a middy ?”
West tradition, and during many visits I
never lost the feeling that at any moment
the sheriff and his posse might come
riding around the next corner.
Until 1918 the valley contained a
flourishing copper-mine, and the ghostly
remains of the mine and its town may
still be seen, though only one house
(formerly the post-office) is still standing
and occasionally occupied. Near by are
the remains of the pise-de-terre pub,
which must have been a tidy little sine-
cure in the days when the mine was
working and the only connection with
the outside world was by bullock-cart.
There are also fragments of desks mark-
ing the site of the school, which was
attended by more than 100 children.
The climate of the valley is mild, in
contrast to the often-bitter weather on
the Monaro ridge. In a garden, which
may have been left behind by a depart-
ing miner, apple-trees and plum-trees
still bear enormous crops of delicious
fruit. Blackberries grow in profusion
everywhere, and at Lob’s Hole there are
damsons, rather bitter but eatable.
The locals believe that Ned Kelly used
the Yarrangobilly valley as one of«his
hideouts. However true that may be,
there could hardly be a better place for
anyone wishing to remain inconspicuous
after shooting-up a town over the near- .
by Victorian border, though a present- -
day Ned would probably find his seclu- ‘
sion disturbed by the noisy gear and the
picturesque language of diamond-drilling
parties.
Anyone wishing to see the valley in its
natural state should hurry along; and,
come to think of it, the . fruit should be
ripe this very month. In a few years
it, too, will be under water and perhaps
contributing to Miss Cato’s cooling drink
in far-off Adelaide.— Pat (Mauritius).
Earl Baldwin
In B. 3/3/’54 M. F. Dixon recalls “dur-
ing the Abdication crisis of 1936 hand-
ing an A.B.C. news-reader a script
referring to Earl Baldwin, then Prime
Minister of England.”
Either M.F.D.’s memory is at fault, or
the script-writer didn’t know his earls.
In 1936 the Prime Minister of England
was plain Stanley Baldwin; he was
created Earl and K.G. on his retirement
in May, 1937.
No peer has been Prime Minister since
Salisbury at the beginning *of this century.
—Noon Bey (Vic.).
Broken Hill’s Library
It was remarked by Judith Cassell
(B. 10/2/’54) of the Broken Hill public
library that, “housed in the Town Hall,
it is a cramped institution established in
1906. It is one of the oldest libraries in
the State and looks like it.”
What library 60 years old is not in a
cramped state? The Broken Hill library
was first formed as a subscription-library
in the early 1890’s and, contrary to Miss
Cassell’s statement, has moved to three
different positions in the Town Hall, each
being more commodious than the previ-
ous one.
The library now occupies four large
rooms in the Town Hall buildings, as well
as having two branches. We hope ulti-
mately to have a new building for the
central library. Shelf-space is always a
problem for any library, particularly
when the library service is expanding as
rapidly as that of Broken Hill.
As for her statement that the “library
is one of the oldest in the State and looks
like it,” Miss Cassell has apparently not
seen the place for some years. Seven
years ago the library was completely
renovated, the office and children’s library
moved to other separate rooms and a
new issuing-counter installed, along with
a new entrance, shelving, etc. In fact,
the charging-system of the library com-
pares favorably with any other free
lending-library in Australia—and I’ve
seen a large number of them,
“It has scant seating for about five
persons.” Ridiculous. New furniture —
sloping-top tables, chrome chairs up-
bolstered in green—was installed seven
years ago. Seating-accommodation has
“ Coat-hanger— two tchilling!”
never been less than for 25 readers in the
adult library.
“The extent to which general conditions
are repelling, instead of attracting, the
public is revealed by the small number of
names on the borrowers’ list.” Here are
the figures. For the two-year period end-
ing December 31, 1953, the total number
of borrowers’ tickets issued was 3938 —
2680 adult readers and 1258 children. Of
the adult readers, 874 (approximately 33
per cent.) used special non-fiction tickets.
As for conditions being “repelling,” the
first part of this letter answers that
statement.
Small use of the library? During 1953
a total of 67,617 books were issued from
the municipal libraries, an increase of
20,000 over the 1951 figures. One should
know the library set-up in Broken Hill
before making such statements. Besides
the municipal libraries each public school
has a library, the Zinc Corporation mine
has a large library for its employees, and
each of the registered clubs supplies books
for its members. There are also deposit-
libraries available. As far as reading is
concerned, I consider Broken Hill better
catered for than any other city in
Australia.
“Children’s books are available, but in
the present congested space children’s
numbers must be limited.” The children’s
library is not in a congested space, nor
are the children’s numbers limited. We
have an excellent set-up for children, with
nearly 5000 books available, and besides
the central section there are also two
branches. Special chairs and tables were
made for the children and the special
room is made attractive by large colored
pictures which are changed regularly.
There are radiators for winter and fans
for summer.
Broken Hill children were issued with
18,256 books during 1953. I made a
short survey of children’s reading in
Broken Hill for 1953 ; from controlled
libraries, 58,739 books were issued to
schoolchildren.
Finally, Miss Cassell says “the winter
temperature may register 24 degrees and
summer readings on occasions rise to 119
degrees.” The records of Broken Hill
show that the lowest and highest tempera-
tures ever recorded were, respectively,
27 degrees on June 29, 1932, and 116
degrees on February 12, 1899.
A. Coulls, City Librarian, Broken Hill
(N.S.W.).
Air-power Isn’t All
Agreed that the mobility of an air-
force is dependent on adequate bases
and “huge quantities of material,
especially jet-fuel and munitions” (B,
3/1 /’54), but the taxpayers who foot the
bill should realise the part to be played
by all three services in ensuring the
supply of such material. Otherwise they
may think that an air-force is sufficient.
Admiral Nimitz, in 1947, stated that
100.000 tons of cargo could be trans-
ported from San Francisco to Australia
each month by using 44 ships, but to lift
the same amount by air would need
10.000 CB7 aircraft manned by 120,000
trained men, quite apart from 89 sea-
going tankers to supply petrol, etc.
It should never be forgotten that not
only the fuel to fly the aircraft but much
essential raw and finished material
comes to Australia in ships, while our
wool, wheat and other exports must be
similarly transported if we are to pay
our way and survive as a nation,
All three services are agreed that an
enemy should be fought and defeated as
far as possible from the coast of Aus-
tralia, but even sea /air-power is insuffi-
dent to secure our vital sea-communicar
tions unless there is a very mobile Army
(with air-borne troops) to seize or occupy
bases and ensure the maximum develop-
ment of that power.
When 1000-bomber raids were being
made on Germany there were only 60
long-range aircraft available for the
Atlantic. Not only was the fuel-supply
of the bombers jeopardised but the
Allied invasion of Europe was delayed
because of a failure to assess correctly
the relative values of sea/air-power
and air-power during a crucial stage of
World War lI.—X. N. O. (N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
The fall in overseas sales of Aus-
tralian wines (B. 24/2/’54) is probably
as startling to admirers as to growers
and makers. It is to be hoped that our
wines do recover their market, which is,
after all, only what their reputation
deserves.
There were overseas bouquets for
Australian wines as far back as 1883.
when they competed successfully against
the best wines of France, Italy and
Spain at the Bordeaux Exhibition. And
their quality here at home still plea-
santly surprises connoisseurs from
abroad.
Dr. Salvador Madariaga, the Spanish
scholastic don who visited Australia io
1950, examined the excellence of Aus-
tralian wines in an A.B.C. broadcast
which was, perhaps, intended (by ths
A.8.C.) for topics more familiarly inter-
national. Continental migrants also com-
ment on their distinctiveness.
True, the worst Australian wines are
as flabby as the average Left Bank
restaurant-wines —which taste as if the>
are made from the waters of the Seine
—but the best are capable of instilling
as much joie de vivre as the most sophisti-
cated and established brands anywhere.
—D. R. (Q.).
The Wheat Surplus
A run of good seasons in both wheat-
importing and -exporting countries, to-
gether with the decision of various coun-
tries to use their stockpiles built up dur-
ing the Korean scare, have caused the
biggest slump in demand for wheat for
24 years. It is expected that in most
countries emergency stocks will be ab-
sorbed by June next, when demand is
expected to increase.
Australia hasn’t enough wheat to tide-
over a big drought and simultaneously
supply her overseas customers. The
chairman of the Australian Wheat Board,
John Teasdale, expects to have 60 million
bushels of unsold wheat by the time the
next crop is ready to harvest. From a
crop grown under drought conditions \\ e
would be lucky to get 70 million bushels.
That, together with the carry-over, would
not be enough for local requirements
(about 62 million bushels, plus another L.
million for stock fodder during a though )
and the 90 million bushels which we
normally export. — Wheatear (N.b.W.).


Public Notices
I, SOLON BALTINOS, of Greek nation-
ality, bom at Helway, Egypt, resident
ii years in Australia, now residing at 208
Wentworth Avenue, Pagewood, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
L CHRYSAFINA SOLOMONIDES, of
Greek nationality, bom in Oastelorizo,
Greece, resident 7 years in Australia, now
residing at 274 Doncaster Avenue, Ken-
sington, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN AMBROSE CARR late of Toon-
gabbie.—TAKE NOTICE that REBECCA
CARR has filed Petition No. 4366 of 1953
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry King Street Sydney by
the 21st May 1954 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD WILLIAM FINNERAN for-
merly of 28 Australia Street Oamperdown.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPHINE
MARTHA FINNERAN has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 3519 of 1953 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Ist June 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. R. M.
GIBSON & MACPHILLAMY, Solicitors,
of 43 Phillip Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Solved! EVERY SOIL PREPARATION PROBLEM
-WITH THE NEW IMPROVED HOWARD
trailing rotary hoe
I •
&
m
m
ilK;;-
ESS
WITH THE NEW
Long hitch!
Four sizes available to en-
sure a perfect “marriage”
between the Howard Trailing
Rotary Hoe and practically
every type of tractor!
Conversion kits available
far owners who wish to
change their present trailing
rotary hoe to an improved
“long hitch ” model. Price,
£B2/14/-.
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS LTD., Northmead, N.S.W..
Every farmer knows the value of the Howard
Trailing Rotary Hoe in handling stubble,
cultivating, turning in weeds and cover crops,
renovating pasture land and preparing the
soil ready for sowing! Now, with the new “long
hitch,” the Howard Trailing Rotary Hoe offers
even greater manoeuvrability . . . steadier
operation . . . and reduced strain on the trac-
tor itself!
HOWARD AUTO-CDLTIVATORS LTD.,
Windsor Rood, Nor+hmead, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of Q the new extended
hitches available for use with HOWARD Trailing
Rotary Hoes □ the HOWARD Seeder Attachment.
NAME
ADDRESS __
CHIEF CROP.
ACREAGE
..TYPE OF SOIL
i HWB2
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of A Journalist and
Two Bears. —5749.
Words of poem “My Brother Ben.”
—5748.
Typiste, Sydney, own machine,
wants typing work; used to typing
manuscripts, neat and accurate, stand-
ard fees. —5741.
English family, husband, wife and
two small children, urgently require
furnished or unfurnished flat or cot-
tage. Husband in permanent employ-
ment. References. —5742.
To get in touch with collectors of
Australian books and periodicals.—
5743.
Copies of books dealing with the
White Australia policy; also articles in
magazines dealing with same subject.
—5744.
Elderly man wants furnished room,
cooking conveniences, or board near
country.—5752.
Words of verses “The Other Side
of the Record,” by O’Connell, and
“Over the Reefs,” by Gibbings.—5753.
Information Sought
I read recently that England pro-
duces a larger annual wheat-crop than
Australia ? Surely this is not right ?
No, it is not right. Some figures,
as given by the Commonwealth Year-
book, are as follows: Australian
wheat-production, average 1929-30 to
1938-39, 169,398,000 bushels; 1948-49,
190,703,000; 1949-50, 218,221,000.
United Kingdom wheat-production,
average 1935-39, 62,361,000 bushels;
1948, 85,163,000; 1949, 79,856,000.
However, Britain has a greater yield
per acre. Australian average yield per
acre, 1929-30 to 1938-39, 11.81; 1940-
41 to 1949-50, 12.82; 1948-49, 15.15;
1949-50, 17.83. U.K., 1930-34, 33.6;
1935-39, 33.8; 1948, 37.4; 1949, 40.7.
* * * *
(1) Did Manfred win both A.J.C.
and Victoria Derbies ? (2) Name some
other races to his credit.
(1) Manfred won both the A.J.C.
and Victoria Derbies in 1925. In the
A.J.C, Derby he was left at the
barrier and did not get going until the
field had travelled half a furlong.
However, he ran brilliantly and won
the race running away from the rest
of the field. This was considered by
many as his best performance. He
won the Victoria Derby by 12 lengths.
(2) In 1925 he also won the W. S. Cox
Plate, and finished second to Windbag
in the Melbourne Cup in the same
year. In 1926 he won the October
Stakes at Flemington, and the Caul-
u c. , Tj a t u a „ r'oiu
field Stakes. He then won die Caul-
field Cu P Pad
success m the Melbourne Stakes,
t * us j^ e j e t Ca \if a ,^ ) j rri 2 r
d retjred to the stu d Some of
his best progeny were The Trump
(Caulfield and Melbourne Cups),
Manolive, Mildura, Manrico and
Studio. Manfred owned by Mr. B.
Chaffey and trained by H. McCalman,
was a bay horse by Valais (imp.)
from Otford. He won 11 races, was
five and twice third, and
accumulated £28,830 in prizemoney.
What is the latest estimated popu-
Nation of (1) each of the Australian
States and Territories, (2) each of the
capital cities, (3) Alice Springs ?
(1) Estimated population of the
States and r Territories as atSept 30,
;1 9 1 5 A : a ,-IN^,)Y” 1 N^, )Y” nso ’
2,395,051; Q., 1,269,088; S.A.,
760,665; WA, 627 305; Tas.,
30,436.’T0tal (Australia)’ 8,867,028!
(2) ’ Estimated population of ’ capital
cities as at Dec. 31, 1952: Sydney,
1,621,040; Melbourne, 1,393,000;
Brisbane, 469,000; Adelaide, 459,000;
Perth, 346,000; Hobart, 91,180; Dar-
win, 7,836; Canberra, 26,732. (Total
estimated capital-city population,
4,413,788.) (3) Estimated population
of yUice Sprmgs as at May 31, 1952,
was 2,750.
*
.
(D What territories did the Holy
Roman Empire cover. (2) What is
the date of the beginning of the em-
Pjre? (3 Were al the emperors
l * all ™ s ? Full list of Holy Roman
ZT/ 6 S
emperor/
(1) The boundaries of the Holy
Roman Empire were continually shift-
ing. At different times it included
all or parts of Germany, France, Italy,
Spain, the Netherlands and Austria,
In the time of Otto the Great (em-
peror, 962-973) it was confined to
Germany and northern Italy; in the
reign of Charles V (emperor 1519-56)
it reached its greatest extent, embrac-
ing all the countries named except
France. (2) The year 800, when the
then Frankish king Charlemagne was
crowned emperor in Rome by Pope
Leo 111, is generally taken as the
beginning of the empire. Some
scholars, however, regard 962, the
coronation of the Saxon king Otto 1
(the Great) as emperor, as the year
the empire began; this date marks the
beginning ol’ the conUnuous existence
of the empire. (3) No. In fact none
was. (4) Too many to list. There
wer ® several ruling Houses, including
the Carolingian (the Frankish kings),
XrSTJfS
WTgs. Jp) Ihe last emperor WB-Sthe
g *if\ nC1 r ionk
Pfror ot Austria 1804-35). In 1806, at
Napoleons bidding, Francis re-
nounced all title to the empire, which
was then declared officially ended.
* * * ,
nn ■ , ~.
™ hat . !?’ ° r Was ’ .
Feudalism is q form of society
which tends to appear when, because
of the collapse of a central Govern-
ment, men group themselves together
round others who are stronger to
defend their lives and property.
Forms of feudalism have been found
in most countries at certain periods
in their development. In Europe its
origin appears to go back to the
downfall of the Roman Empire; it
had certainly been evolved by the
sth century a.d. In France and Ger-
many the s#ong rule of Charlemagne
temporarily stayed the growth of
feudalism, but it revived in the
anarchy following the break-up of
his empire. The essence of the
feudal system lay in the two ideas
that every man had certain rights
over his social inferiors and certain
duties towards his superiors, and
that those rights and duties were
determined in every case by his posi-
tion on the land. The king, how-
ever incompetent or powerless, was
still conceived to be the sole land-
owner and ultimately responsible for
justice and defence. From him all
land was held. The vassal was bound
to his lord by oath of fidelity; he
had to labor for him and follow
him in battle. In return, this being
the essential point, the lord had to
guarantee him justice and protection
against all external force. The feudal
system was the dominant social and
political system practically through-
out the Middle Ages. The word
derives from feud, or fief, the name
given to the land occupied by the
tenant or vassal.
• * ♦ *
Information on U.N.O. assistance
to undeveloped countries ?
The object is, of course, to raise
living standards and strengthen econo-
mies. One important aspect of
U.N.O.’s programme is the provision
of technical assistance. For this pur-
pose an allocation has been made each
year, the first vote, of $288,000, being
made in Dec., 1948. Since then there
has been an annual appropriation,
usually of $508,420. Besides this
regular annual vote, the U.N. General
Assembly has also approved in some
years an expanded programme of
technical assistance, financed directly
by various Governments. This tech-
nical help is to be rendered only if
requested by Governments, shall be
given only to or through Governments,
and shall not be a means of economic
and political interference in the inter-
nal affairs of the country concerned.
The latter is expected to give all neces-
sary and directly relevant information
about the problems on which it seeks
help, to heed the advice given, to bear
a substantial part of the local costs
arising, to publish information or pro-
vide material for study and analysis
of the results achieved, and to give
publicity of the assistance within its
territory.
* ♦ ♦ m
I saw mention recently of “the
Southern Cross, lost between Sydney
and Melbourne in the ’thirties ” (1)
Should not this be Southern Cloud ?
(2) Also, where is the Southern Cross
preserved ?
(1) Yes. It was the Southern Cloud
which disappeared (on Mar. 21, 1931)
in dirty weather after having left
Mascot at 8.30 a.m. that day, and of
which not a trace has since been
found or a clue come to light of the
fate of the eight people aboard. The
Southern Cloud was a sister-plane to
the Southern Cross, Kingsford Smith’s
famous plane, and was owned by
Kingsford Smith and Ulm, then run-
ning a commercial and passenger air-
line between the Eastern States’ capi-
tals. Southern Cloud’s pilot was T.
W. Shortridge, an able and experi-
enced flyer. Kingsford Smith in the
Southern Sun (another sister-plane),
Ulm, Mollison, Scotty Allen and other
well-known aviators took part in the
fruitless search. Reports of the miss-
ing plane came in from all over the
countryside, of flares, mysterious
flashes, of a plane in difficulties, etc.
Nothing was ever found. The tragedy
led to a shake-up in civil-aviation
safety-measures and resulted in wire-
less (which the Southern Cloud was
without) being carried in all com-
mercial planes. (2) In the National
War Museum, Canberra.
Brief Answers
T.N.G.: Here are a few Melbourne
new and secondhand booksellers —
Angus and Robertson, 66-68 Eliza-
beth-street; Robertson and Mullens,
107 Elizabeth-street; Craftsman Book-
shop, 408 Collins-street; Whitcombe
and Tombs, 332 Collins-street; F. W.
Cheshire, 338 Little Collins-street;
Continental Bookshop, 300 Little
Collins-street. In Adelaide we suggest
you contact either Beck Book Co.,
Ltd., 18 Pulteney-street, or Rigby Ltd.,
Adelaide H.F.8.: “Tattersall’s”
was never at any time established in
Adelaide. In 1887 George Adams
opened to the public the Tattersall’s
Club sweeps, previously only con-
ducted among members. After the
N.S.W. Government had declared the
sweeps illegal, Adams moved to Bris-
bane in Sept., 1893. The Queensland
Government also banning them,
Adams shifted to Tasmania, opening
in Hobart in January, 1896, where
Tatt.’s has since been conducted. Its
next projected move, of course, is to
Melbourne D.E.MacE.: The
lines are from Shelley’s “The Sky-
lark” L.R.: The line “I see you
stand like greyhounds in the slips” is
from the end of King Henry’s famous
“Once more unto the breach” speech,
made before Harfleur ( Henry V, Act
111, scene i) A.C.: (1) General
rates, 7d. in the £ (on the unimproved
capital value of land payable to the
council); (2) water-rates, lOd. in the
£, and (3) sewerage-rates, in the
£ (on the assessed annual value pay-
able to the Metropolitan Water,
Sewerage and Drainage Board); (4)
cleansing-rates, nil, unless the land is
used for business purposes, in which
case a charge would be made by the
council proportionate to the amount
of refuse removed. The abovemen-
tioned rates apply to land in the area
of the City of Sydney and not in a
suburban municipality Manuka
(N.Z.): Think the whereabouts of the
“gold” cup you were inquiring after
will very likely for ever remain a
secret. Can suggest no means of
finding out now what has happened
to it J.E.: “The Huon Campaign,”
by “Ek Dum,” appeared in The
Bulletin in two instalments, Oct. 14,
and Oct. 21, 1953... .R.8.H.: The
English Rugby League team to tour
Australia this year will play three
Tests, as usual—first, Sydney, June
12; second, Brisbane, July 3; third,
Sydney, July 17. Their match at
Grafton (v. Northern N.S.W.) is on
July 7.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
1.M.: Maybe it will be published
posthumously as the sort of thing you
did before you did what maybe you
will do C.W.S.: Vicarious ven-
geance. .. .A.C.-R.: As we sometimes
have to admit, we couldn’t publish
it N.D. f That isn’t the real you—
or anyone else... ,H. 8.: It’s merely
the preliminary to nothing F.C.:
Labored... .V.C.R.; Ditto... .C.G.:
Not bad, but we didn’t like the
people.... J.A.V.: Mooning over
little boys being misunderstood won’t
help it, and you certainly didn’t get a
story out of it... .N. 8.: Likewise....
T.C.McG.: It doesn’t add anything
to the millions of words that have
been written on that subject... .“G.”;
It’s all right, but it’s been done so
often....J.M.E.: Ditto... .K.McA.:
Seems a bit f orced K.F.: You are
one of those writers for whom the
short story is an excuse to play Father
Christmas K.L.: Not ours....
L.H.: No P.G.M.: No matter
how many words you throw at it, it
just remains snow K.M.: Psycho-
logy is all right in a story, but you
shouldn’t let it show E.G.W.; It
would be an elegant trifle if it were
elegant M.H.W.: Your “Alien
Com” is true to label: it’s about
aliens, and it sure is com M.G.E.:
It’s a possible dilemma, but you
make it sound improbable M.L.:
You have no reason to be ashamed of
your “Nakedness,” except that it
doesn’t make a story. But even if it
did we would be unlikely to print
it J.D.W.: Chaucer might have
liked it: he certainly would have done
it better.


m
sin
O§BOB9
itmn
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN..
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made by the world’s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and hoilerhouse equipment.
Makers of
POWER STATION,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boilerhouse equipment.
BABCOCK
STEAM
RAISING PLANT
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works; Regents Park, N.S.W.
Branch Offices in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
me
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
9th to 20th APRIL, 1954
10 DAYS - - 8 NIGHTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Natural Pasture
“Regen”: Every arid region
in the world has suffered de-
terioration of its natural pas-
tures since the advent of settle-
ment.
In U.S.A. it has been calcu-
lated that the original popula-
tion of wild-game was two and
a half times as great as the pre-
sent population of domestic
livestock, per unit of weight,
yet the vegetation was far
better than it is today.
The most important reason
for this apparent anomaly is
that wild animals in such
regions were dependent mainly
on natural surface-waters. When
these dried up the animals had
to move elsewhere or die, so
that pasture was not overgrazed.
Moreover, rains too small to
replenish surface-waters were
still of some benefit to the pas-
ture, which had a chance to
spell and grow.
Also, the wild animals were
free to roam, and they had a
habit of congregating in large
herds to move further afield, so
that the pasture was grazed
heavily, but intermittently, and
not continuously.
Again, there was a large
number of species of wild ani-
mals which did not all have the
same grazing habits and prefer-
ences.
The continuous selective graz-
ing of domestication results in
good grazing species being
eaten-out and not replaced, so
that the cover of the soil is
reduced.
Loss of soil from wind- or
water-erosion reduces the depth
and quality of the soil and
makes the recovery of the vege-
tation, even if spelled, slow and
difficult.
This also applies to Australia.
The basic remedy is broadly in-
dicated between the lines.
Margarine v. Butler
“Agric”: Queensland Minis-
ter for Agriculture Collins made
the point (in a speech to farmers)
that margarine is made from
farm-products, growers of which
have as much right to a market
as have dairyfarmers.
Peanuts, cottonseed, sun-
flower-seed, coconut and soya-
bean oils, as well as animal fats
(including whale-oil), are all
sources. And most of these
materials can be grown in
Queensland, or are grown there.
Many are being grown on
farms which also produce milk
and butter, and give a good
rotation, from grass to crop,
and back to grass. Almost any
crop which contains large
quantities of oil adds nitrogen
to the soil. In the U.S.A., where
consumption of table-margarine
is almost equal to that of
butter, the ingredients are
mostly native-grown soya-
beans being the chief.
Collins gave some figures for
milk-production (in Queens-
land) per cow per year. An in-
crease from 155 gals. in 1922 to
230 gals. in 1934, but since then
the trend had been downward
back to approximately
155 gals. in 1951-52. Milk used
for butter in the State rose
from 90 million gals, in 1921-22
to 270 million gals, in 1938-39,
but the quantity so used in
1951-52 dropped to approxi-
mately 160 million gals.
The New Tractor
“Jay”; The Oliver-Britstand
Network, in “Earthmoving,”
gives some tips on breaking-in
the new tractor. Generally the
distributor will give the neces-
sary information when he de-
livers. But it’s as well to keep
a few fundamentals in mind.
When the tractor gets on the
job it’s important to make sure
the engine is completely warmed-
up, The engine should run at
a fairly fast idle.
Once the engine is completely
warmed it’s excellent practice to
give the tractor an exercise run.
This is a good safety-measure.
The tractor is now ready for
work, but use discretion. Oper-
ate in a gear that will not pull
the engine below rated speed.
Period of moderate operation is
usually about 30 hours. Travel-
ling speed should be kept moder-
ate to give track-rollers and
chassis-assemblies a chance to
seat themselves and take on
wear-hardening.
Burning Stubble
“Triticum”: While the burn-
ing of wheat-stubble is undesir-
able when there is no need for
it, one argument against the
practice which has been greatly
overemphasised by university
professors and soil-chemists is
the loss of nitrogen to the soil.
The amount of nitrogen in
cereal-straw is very small; and
just returning that small quantity
to the soil by disking or plough-
ing isn’t as important as it is
made to sound.
The only time wheatgrowers
find it necessary to burn wheat-
stubble is when they are sowing
a crop again immediately on
land carrying a heavy stubble
from the previous crop.
In dry-summer regions or
seasons it is quite impossible to
get a large bulk of such stubble
rotted, and most wheatgrowers
realise that one of the worst
things they can do for the crop
is to have an open seedbed
filled with a mass of undecom-
posed straw. In these circum-
stances the bulk of this straw
should undoubtedly be burnt if
that is the only alternative.
Where the soil-nitrogen and
organic - matter are being in-
creased by encouraging natural
clovers or trefoils, or by tem-
porary-sown pastures with sub.-
clover in the wheat rotation,
burning the stubble is not such
a crime, and some other reason
than loss of nitrogen and
organic-matter will have to be
advanced against it to convince
wheatgrowers of its undesir-
ability.
Progeny-tests
“B. O. Vine”: Progeny-testing
of beef-cattle —still in its in-
fancy, but, combined with arti-
ficial insemination, of dynamic
potential to the beef industry—
is giving cattlemen food for
thought in Canada. In tests
there top placing by show and
commercial standards went to a
Hereford, but a Shorthorn con-
verted food into beef for the
lowest cost.
For the tests 40 animals by
10 different sires were placed
in four groups according to
rations: two parts of grain to
one part of hay; two parts of
hay to one of grain; free
choice; and two of grain and
one of hay, swinging to the
opposite as the animal matured.
A Hereford (not the show-ring
winner) put on 2.531 b. daily at a
cost of 13.38 dollars per cwt.,
but was beaten on the cost factor
by a Shorthorn which gained
Rose Battleship—a champion bull at one of the
spring shows of the Hereford Herd Book Society,
held at the Cattle Market, Hereford (Eng.)—the
markings give a particular interest.
2.121 b. daily at a cost of 12.10
dollars per cwt. Shorthorns and
Herefords dominated the entire
test.
Bees in Walls
“Drone B.”; The past spring
has been a good one for bees,
apparently. Large numbers of
swarms have never been hived,
and have set up house in hol-
low trees, walls of houses, etc.
A man used to bees finds their
removal no trouble. But for
the benefit of those who haven’t
had much to do with them, here
are a few hints on transferring
them from the wall-space of,
say, a weatherboard or cement-
sheet house.
Best plan is to have a frame-
hive handy, with no foundation
in the frames. Take out a few
boards, or a cement sheet, and
gently smoke. Combs should be
cut away from their moorings
complete with bees, which are
brushed off into the new hive.
Good brood-comb is cut to
shape and size and tied into
empty frames with string:
several rounds, along the length
of the frame, for firmness, until
the bees have sealed the comb
into the frame. A frame or two
of honeycomb can be included
to tide the bees over the upsets
of moving. When rejecting a
piece of comb which is covered
with bees, brush them into the
hive and place the comb in a
covered tin. Try to avoid spilt
honey and leaving combs lying
about, as robbers will quickly
arrive a stinging, whining
horde of obstructionists.
When the transfer is com-
plete, and the queen’s presence
in the hive has been confirmed,
the new hive can be left. It is
unwise to make the transfer in
late autumn, as the bees may
not have time to accumulate
stores for the winter.
Queensland. Sugar
“J.F.”: At the request of the
Queensland Sugar Board, R.
Muir, secretary of the Cane
Growers’ Council, has put the
considered views of that asso-
ciation regarding local produc-
tion on paper. As released to
the Press, it amounted to a
fairly considerable document.
Here is a precis:
It is taken as self-evident that
if there is large-scale overpro-
duction the growers will bear
the brunt of the loss. It is likely
that there will be overproduc-
tion if something isn’t done to
arrest it. If, for instance, a
crop available for harvest is in
excess of requirements for
crushing, a portion of it, at least,
will stay in the field. And this
cane-in-the-field is a loss to the
grower. Even if it is possible to
let the cane stand over till next
season there is still a dislocation
of crop-rotation; and the next
season may not be any better.
To suggestions that the in-
dustry should not take the risk
of producing less than its peak-
quota, thus being unable to de-
liver its full export-quota under
the U.K.-Commonwealth and
International Sugar Agreements,
the answer is “Why?” Filing
the quota (i.e., taking full ad-
vantage of available markets) is
desirable so long as the market-
price is remunerative, but it
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
i-StSHS
the supply. Send for yours
now—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ŵ
. . . BUT HE
WEAKB A
NEO-
BARBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKEHE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3k), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ẁ
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
■'National'' Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typinq, Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
— ‘ ’ Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
£prth IDE "n , Vardon & Sons Ltd.
.. ..Docket Book Uo. (.Ausuj
SIMPLEX
I, WATT, 32 VOIT
HOME LIGHTING SET
Ample capacity to light the home
and use electric iron, toaster,
washing machine, radio, etc.
Sturdy, reliable job complete
with switchboard. Press button
self starting. Driven by 3 H.P.
J. air-cooled engine.
£165
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or agricultural use.
161 Missendcn Rd., Newtown, Sydney.
liA 3597.
HARDMAN & HALL
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
' m
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved hy N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained' sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
n tt
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established jor 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS -
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St, Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St, Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.: ’
THE FACTS ABOUT THE
AGA COOKER
Regd. Trade Mark *
ane so remarkable they seem
almost too good to be true . ..
AGA burns continuously, day and night! Cooks by itself
. . . unwatched and unaided!
AGA provides hot water, too; all you could reasonably want
for kitchen, laundry and bathroom.
AGA is more economical . . . its fuel consumption is
guaranteed never to exceed a definite, and very
modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor
how long you cook!
AGA's insulation is amazing . . . cool to work with, the
Cooker helps to “air condition” the kitchen.
AGA'S refuelling takes only approximately ten minutes
per day, that’s all the attention AGA asks.
AGA is scientifically planned . . . temperatures are auto-
matically adjusted by thermostat . . . always “just
right” to cook immediately.
■K The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply .
LEVIN AND CO. LTD.
(Established In N.Z. In 1841 J
Sole Australian Agents for
ASA COOKER AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST TO-DAT TOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS! MALLOCH BROS. LTD., Perth
ẃ
wouldn’t really matter if the
quota was not completely filled
every year.
Broadly, the council considers
it desirable to fill quotas. But
some rise and fall in produc-
tion and some risk of excess is
to be expected. If in a particu-
lar year there was a dramatic
fall in production because of
some unforeseen and uncontrol-
lable factor, Australian represen-
tatives overseas should be able
to explain this extraordinary
occurrence; and it should not
unduly influence future quotas.
The important thing is that
there are mill-peaks prescribed
hy a judicial body. If there are
mill-peaks, and the miller is the
recipient of an aggregate quota,
there should be some suitable
local scheme to allocate the
quota among growers. If there
is no local scheme there is “a
constant mad race” leading to
maximum production. While
economic markets can be found
no great harm is done. With
overproduction it is otherwise.
Control of production is a
responsibility Australia has
undertaken under both the
British Commonwealth Agree-
ment and the International
Sugar Agreement. Some areas
have formulated their own
farm-peak schemes. However,
in any vast industry it is im-
possible to regulate production
precisely to the required tons.
It is possible the industry may
want the Government to take
the whole of the sugar produced
in 1954 and market it. However,
that is a matter which will be
discussed at the annual confer-
ence. The important thing is
that growers realise the position
before planting.
It is doubtful whether there
is a home-market in sight in
excess of 550,000 tons per
annum, if that; export quota is
618.000 tons, an aggregate of
1.168.000 tons. Estimate for
1954 crop is, in round figures,
1.400.000 tons of 94 n.t. sugar.
In the calendar quota-year 1954
some 160,000 tons of sugar
manufactured from the 1953
crop will be sold overseas ; that
crop’s output will have to meet
home requirements until the
end of June, 1954. On those
figures there is only a market
(home and overseas) for roughly
740.000 tons of sugar from 1954
production. So there will prob-
ably be a carryover of 660,000
tons into 1955, which, after
allowing for home-consumption,
means some 410,000 tons for
export.
This carryover may fairly be
expected to continue, resulting,
according to Muir’s calculations
(given in detail), in an excess in,
say. May, 1956, of 450,000 tons.
But article 13 of the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement pro-
vides that stocks in excess of
20 p.c. of annual production
shall not be held on the Friday
preceding May 15 each year,
This 20 p.c. would be about
240,000 tons at present rate of
production. So this excess
could not be held, and, if it
could, it would be very expen-
sive to store and keep in good
order.
But, possible shortfalls in
other British Commonwealth
countries and bad seasons aside,
it seems likely that future crops,
if uncontrolled on the grower-
level, will be considerable, be-
cause of increased efficiency on
the farms. Improved cane-
varieties, sounder methods of
fertilising, control of grubs by
benzene-hexachloride and pros-
pects of controlling ratoon-
stunting all add up to better
crops.
It is likely that most growers
will make a small gamble, from
time to time, in excess of their
quotas. That will be no more
than the ordinary considered
risk of the individual producer.
Apart from the benefits of an
overall system of control in
cushioning the producer against
overproduction, a scheme of this
kind (says the statement) would
enable him to rotate his land
and by fallowing and growing
green crops maintain its fer-
tility ; and, incidentally, reduce
his very considerable fertiliser
bill.
In Brief
R. D. Bakewell, chairman of
the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council, applauding Eisen-
hower’s rejection of a U.S.
Tariff Board recommendation
for a higher duty on wool, makes
the point (among others) that
any such exclusive move, by
raising the price of wool, would
weaken the world-position of
that commodity vis-d-vis syn-
thetics.
* *
Wheat Board has received
180,600,000 bushels from recent
crop—highest since 1949-50.
♦ *
A new method of testing the
condition of wool-yarn electroni-
cally will be demonstrated at the
British Industries Fair in May.
The contraption, about the size
of a small mantel-radio, is
efficient for testing closely-
packed spools, in which the
moisture may be unevenly distri-
buted along the length.
* * *
Documentary films shown at
a Dubbo (N.S.W.) Graziers’
Association field-day, well
attended by folk from Narro-
mine, Trangie, Gulargambone,
Wellington, Spicer’s Creek, etc.,
with subjects such as stock-
diseases and treatment. One film
emphasised—if any emphasis is
needed outside the cities—the
changing face of life on the land.
Subject, Wilgena, 450 miles from
Adelaide; saltbush, sage and
mulga country; boundary-riders
mounted on motor-bikes, dogs
perched on the handle-bars.
* * *
First appointment of its kind
in Australia Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area has a full-time
agricultural engineer, Geoffrey
Habel. V. C. Williams (chair-
man, Irrigation Research and
Extension Committee), com-
menting on the appointment,
said that nowadays the primary
producer was half-farmer and
half-mechanic. More than £2
million of agricultural machinery
had been brought to M.I.A.
farms since the war.
* * * *
Which brings to mind the fact
that much of the brilliant work
done at the Sydney University
Farm in water-storage by means
of small dams and contour-
drains, was assisted in detail by
a sort of on-the-spot liaison
with the Faculty of Engineering.
# * * «
“M.”: In tests by the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture at Rutherglen (Vic.) loz. of
lindane an acre controlled red-
legged earth-mite in pastures as
effectively as 21b. of D.D.T. That
quantity of D.D.T. costs 20
times as much as loz. of lindane.
* * * *
C.5.1.R.0. reports that a
single large dose of vitamin A,
given to ewes well ahead of
lambing, will reduce losses
during a spell of drought-feed-
ing. Also useful for young
sheep under same conditions.
♦ * * *
Record apple-crop likely for
N.S.W.
* * * *
Demand for stud-goats from
Condobolin (N.S.W.) Experi-
ment Farm exceeds supply.
51= * * *
Merits of vaccines for foot-
and-mouth disease keenly de-
bated in House of Lords
(“Times” report). The Earl of
Iveagh said he was probably the
only peer who had lost two
herds since the war; three types
of the disease, each of which
would probably require a separ-
ate vaccine (but they might be
mixed). Lord Glyn said one of
the chief causes was swill, which
was available at U.S. air-stations
in “tremendous quantities.”
Conclusion: Since vaccines are
effective for only six months, the
job is too expensive.
• * *
Myxomatosis is active in
Narrandera and Hi 11 sto it
(N.S.W.) districts.
* * * *
February rains of from 4in.
to 12in. have changed the pas-
toral picture over much of north
and north-west N.S.W.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The rainy period from the middle of March to early
April has now begun and should affect the eastern coast
down to about Port Macquarie, and soon afterwards the
more southern areas down to the south coast of N.S.W.
During Easter, some rain likely for the Sydney Royal
Show, but in Brisbane mainly fine.


ẅ
w
HERE’S
RADIO’S
FASTEST
BRAIN...
Jack Davey’s lightning-quick
brain delights millions of
listeners to Persil’s famous quiz
show “Give It a Go” each week.
There’s information, laughs,
and best of all, interest and
surprise when Jack urges con-
testants every Monday night at
8 to . . .
ŵ
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
The curate stopped laughing
and said, seriously, “As a matter
of fact my name is Plumtree,
and I am the bishop’s nephew.”
Visibly shaken, the sergeant
asked, “Wife’s name, sir?”
“I have no wife. I never had
a wife. I am unmarried.”
“What! Then who was the
murdered lady?”
“There is no murdered lady.
I cannot think how this absurd
story got about. Unless one of
the maids at Carefree Farm
overhead and misunderstood a
conversation I had with Mrs.
McCree, the night I dined there,
about a week ago. Even so, I
cannot guess how the rumor
reached Mallow’s Marsh! ”
“Better ask Man Thomas.” It
was Juliet’s suggestion.
Man Thomas, in his simple
way, was a seeker after truth.
He stroked his crenellated beard
and pondered.
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, it mid
be so! It were Abigail, the
laundry-maid at Carefree Farm,
who telled me curate had a
wife. So she did. And I see
the Englishwoman in the lane
and I says to meself, ’tis his
wife. When no one seed her
again, ’twas natural to think
he’d put her away, now, wasn’t
it? And everyone I speaks to
agreed! Churchwarden and
Granny Peachy! Yes!”
Man Thomas gave a guffaw
of laughter. He slapped his
tough thighs and laughed till
the tears made watercourses in
the channels of his beard, and
the curate, glad to have found
a soul-mate, laughed too, and
Juliet herself gave small spurts
and chirrups of laughter, as
sweet to hear as a thrush’s
song.
“I sees the joke! I sees the
joke!” Man Thomas kept shout-
ing, in uncontrolled delight.
“ Twas the nurse from Fisher’s
Ghost Crick I saw! ”
The inhabitants dispersed:
Dr. Boisragon drove furiously
away without apologising.
At first the policemen did
not see the fun, but the rectory-
cellar was better stocked than
the kitchen; flagons of Pale
October, shared with church-
warden and Man Thomas,
soothed their pride; it was a
convivial gathering that broke
up an hour later.
WHILE unbuttoned mirth
sounded through the win-
dow, Juliet walked through the
orchard with the curate.
The first fruit-tree to flower
in that benignant region was
always the almond, and the
pink almond-blossom, this year,
was punctual. In a normal
year the next trees to break into
bud were always the damson
plums ; their boughs were now
so white that they appeared to
be crystallised. One early apple
was out. Six pears were early.
The cherries, usually the last to
flower and the first to fruit,
shook pendent clusters of
ineffable beauty from no fewer
than ten well-grown trees.
It is an established fact that
in summer, or on moonlight
nights, larks, like nightingales,
sing all night long. Though the
sun was now sinking, and any
reasonable lark might have felt
at liberty to drop down to a cosy
nest (for many tussocks were
already chirping), at least twenty
larks, working overtime, were
pouring their hearts out in an
amethyst sky.
In England, about this date,
a wise scientist, writing in a
stuffy study, was penning the
words, “Propinquity acts as a
liberating stimulus to instinct.”
The two young people in the
orchard, had they known it,
were proving the truth of this
axiom. They sat very close to-
gether on a fallen pear-tree that,
even prone, was flowering, and
opened their hearts to each
other. Juliet, grown aware of
her grandmama’s outrageous
attempt at match-making, for-
gave her, and Orlando (it
really was his name), who had
come from one of those Oxford
coteries where men exist with-
out the connivance of women,
who had no mother, no sister,
no aunt, even, to ameliorate
his lot, who had found Mallow’s
Marsh an almost unbearable
anticlimax after Oxford, with
its dreaming spires, was slowly
growing aware of the meaning
of the greatest Oxford poet
Martin Tupper’s references to
“love,” “woman,” “twin-souls”
and “the ecstasy of being one”
—or “two.” (Which is it?)
It would be premature to say
that the young people left the
orchard engaged. But by the
time the first star remembered
its duty, and, quite unaware of
the fact that it was a well-
known constellation and had
been very much written-up, had
revealed its position north of the
Razorbacks, they were cer-
tainly “in love.”
Dr. Phantom, calling for
Juliet so late that every star was
in its appointed place, did not
even apologise for keeping her
waiting. He looked once, in
the moonlight, at her vivid and
revealing face, and knew the
answer to the question he would
never put.
TT was, however, eleven months
later that Mrs. McCree sent
her daughter-in-law the letter
that had been simmering in her
indignant heart ever since the
doll and the corals had arrived
from Paris.
She invested this ceremony
with as much ritual as if Royalty
had been involved; she
arranged fresh flowers on her
writing-desk; she put on her
best dress, a lavender silk,
bustled like Gibraltar and
pleated to the limits of per-
plexity ; and, with a fresh
goose-quill, she wrote, trium-
phantly :
Dear Peronel,
You will, some months ago,
have heard the news of dear
Juliet’s marriage to Orlando
Plumtree, but now I write to
communicate a happy secret
which will, I know, give you
very great joy; by the time this
letter reaches you, you will be
a grandmother !
“That will teach her to send
a doll to a girl of sixteen,” Mrs,
McCree exclaimed, sealing the
letter. She would allow no one
to post it but herself, and she
drove into Parramatta in her
new basket-work Victoria to do
so ; even borrowing a pencil in
the post office to write on the
envelope:
“The bishop has promised to
christen the little stranger, your
first grandchild.”
serving some purpose other than,
and greater than, his own.”
Looking back into the pit from
which the Government is still
steadily climbing, it says a good
deal not only for Menzies’s gifts
of leadership but for the calibre
of those behind him that they
did stick together so solidly.
Certainly it is unlikely that while
Menzies remains in office their
loyalty will ever again be put to
such a test.
It is in the field of compromise
that Menzies may not have
touched the heights reached by
Bonar Law. Compromise was
for most of his early life
anathema to him. It was
contrary to all the training of his
early life and his own intellectual
experience. It was his incapacity
for wise and patient compromise
which did so much to bring about
his downfall in 1941. It was that
same incapacity which helped
build the legend of his
“arrogance” and his “intolerance
of fools.”
In effect, he flaunted his
integrity in a manner offensive to
many people. And in the days of
his first Prime Ministership he
had not proved that integrity to
the satisfaction of all who
acknowledge it now.
Menzies’s experiences in 1941
and afterwards have mellowed
him in this respect, and the
rigidity of his approach to any
political problem which involves
compromise has to some extent
disappeared. But he is still bitter
when he is outvoted by his
Cabinet or his party on a prin-
ciple in respect of which he
regards compromise as inadmis-
sible.
Today he accepts the majority-
verdict rather than resign, as he
might have done 10 or 15 years
ago. Yet his friends know that
in many ways he longs for the
day when he is out of office and
can speak his own mind, his
own individual uncompromising
opinion, on the great matters of
the day on which he thinks com-
promise has been carried ton
far.
Many of his followers do not
think he compromises enough in
the practical decisions of govern-
ment. Some think he com-
promises too much. The true
verdict, again, must be left to
history.
Certainly his conviction that
“a Government which is not pre-
pared to do the unpopular thing
if it is the right thing is not fit
to be a Government” has left its
mark indelibly on Australia in
the last few years. There is noi
much doubt that Australian
history would have been very
different if another and lesser
man had led the non-Labor
parties through precisely the
same problems with which
Menzies, as leader, had to
grapple.
Again and again in the past
two years pressure-groups in
industry, in commerce and in the
trade-unions have all-but beaten
Menzies.
Some members of his own
Cabinet would tend to panic in
the face of strong public state-
ments by these interests,
prominently featured in the
Press, and heavily backed by the
Press itself, editorially, or in the
treatment of material in the
news-pages. Again and again
Menzies has stiffened his col-
leagues to resistance in what he
believed was the proper cause.
Of course, he had staunch and
loyal allies, as well as waverers,
inside the Cabinet. But the dis-
sidents had no want of oppor-
tunity to express their views. For
his control of Cabinet proceed-
ings is said to be loose enough
to permit every Minister, if he
wishes, to air his particular views
on any subject under discussion
at some length.
This is commendable in terms
of free speech. And it anticipates
any complaint by Ministers that
their Prime Minister is a
“dictator” in Cabinet. On the
other hand, it slows the rate of
decisions; and Cabinet, in the
last few years, has too often
risen with its agenda-paper far
from clean.
Chifley, I have heard it said
by senior public servants, was a
more ruthless master of his
Cabinet than Menzies, particu-
larly during the last year or two
of Labor rule. This, however,
made for greater Cabinet
efficiency, even if decisions too
often bore the stamp of one man
alone.
Like the late Lord Balfour,
Prime Minister of Great Britain
at the beginning of this century,
Menzies is said to be masterly
in his exposition inside Cabinet
of the advantages and disad-
vantages of any proposed course
of action. He can listen to a
colleague’s long exposition of a
problem, seize upon the good
and bad points in it, and produce
a summary which is of utmost
value in leading to a conclusion.
On the other hand, it is said
that his drive is not always as
strong in Cabinet as it could be.
And his many successful efforts
to avoid conflict within the
Executive are frequently made
at the cost of speedy decision.
Yet who knows whether this
weakness, if weakness it be, is
not a product of the exigencies
of coalition government?
For the Liberal-C.P. coalition
has been kept indissolubly united
on the Cabinet- and Parlia-
mentary-level since 1949 not by
the bludgeon but by prodigies of
skill and tact and delicate judg-
ment which in themselves per-
haps constitute the supreme
tribute to Menzies’s final mastery
of the art of true leadership.
And if, in the realm of com-
promise, some think him still
vulnerable, the answer may well
be that Solomon himself could
not have achieved perfection in
that realm if he had had to rule
not a kingdom but a coalition.
(To be continued next week)


Some call it "The Cruel Sea” of the war on land
THE CLIMATE OF COURAGE
by JON CLEARY 16s.
A great war novel- a fine story of comradeship and courage
Available at all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
The Angry Angel
Lajos Zilahy
A brilliant sequel to the bestselling novel “THE DUKAYS.”
. n Zllah y has written a novel which, in its description, its dry humor
S£ wiidfiTDu°wfHv°.a ry .. *. world
At all booksellers - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
WHITE COOLIE
by Betty Jeffrey
The first published account of the
experiences of an Australian Army nurs-
ing sister in Japanese captivity. Sister
Jeffrey’s direct and unpretentious record
is a grim story of forced labour, hunger,
sickness and humiliation, inspiringly
illuminated by the unquenchable spirit
and ■humour of the prisoners. Jacket and
page illustrations by Kick.
17/6 (post 7d.)
THE REFUGE
by Seaforth Mackenzie
A psychological crime story. The central
characters are a young European girl who,
in Australia, is still a hunted and haunted
refugee from Communism, and the lead-
ing crime reporter in Sydney. You’ll
find suspense, romance and intrigue
masterfully mixed by a talented author,
in this new novel.
16/- (post 7cL)
Write, phone, or call in for these, or any of the dozens of new hooks
now available at....
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney 6MB Eliiabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
towards the very end, since the persecu-
tors are unconvincing and irrelevant to
the murder, does the novel pick up
tension again, when we learn that the
woman has seduced the journalist’s son
by a former marriage, and that that is
why he has killed her. The question of
his possible battle with the police is never
reopened; nor is his psychology alto-
gether satisfactorily explained—there
was no need, in the circumstances, for a
normal man to commit murder, and the
journalist is hardly presented as abnormal.
Seaforth Mackenzie is, of course, also
the poet Kenneth Mackenzie. His import-
ance in the contemporary Australian
novel is as a prose-stylist and as a writer
of polished, sophisticated, deeply ana-
lytical and always rather curious stories
on a higher, more cosmopolitan level of
artistry than the general, slap-happy Aus-
tralian tradition. The Refuge falls away
too much from tension to be his master-
piece ; it is too slow-moving (when Irma
comes into the journalist’s room at his
office it is ten pages before she will let
us know why she has come: to ask him
to hide her); it is too cold and needs a
blast of sunshine (even the mountains are
foggy); but, moving with masterly ease
through English prose and Sydney land-
scape, it maintains Mackenzie’s very high
qualities and still leaves one convinced
that he has a masterpiece to write.
New Prokosch Novel
. ~~— .
Ims reader freely admits to a liking
tor Prokosch s work (both in prose and
poetry) which might, perhaps, be dis-
proportionate to its essential worth,
Granted that here romanticism may at
times be too lush; that to some tastes
this style is too ornate ; that the approach
i k n U n e , an S, aa S e COUiU often be
labeHed decadent -it remains a perfect
toim of escape literature, tar more satis-
Ying than any detective story or travel
book: two forms with which a Prokosch
novel has points in common.
His characters are usually so stylised
that one forgets them quickly. They
exist purely as symbols for the presenta-
tion of ideas and action. It is the setting
of the books which is all-important so
that action, characters and prose-style
seem directed towards the sole purpose
of defining the peculiar appearance,
spirit and flavor of any place the much-
travelled Mr. Prokosch is describing,
Once he has written of a landscape—
African, Persian, Burmese, French, or of
a city such as Lisbon or New York—the
essence of his description remains in the
memory. One respects him the more, too,
for knowing that he has lived with ver-
satility: diplomat, Chaucerian authority,
tennis and squash-rackets champion . . .
Nine Days to Mukalla (Seeker and
Warburg) tells of the Arabian wander-
ings of four survivors of a plan© crash on
a small coastal island. Their rescuers
are the somewhat equivocal crew of a
small boat—white people are feared in
this part of Arabia, but these natives
undprtnkf tr» w> r l tt™ \k i n
“f r ‘ ak t e to l6ad f 6lll to Mukalla,
whence transport to Aden will be avail-
able. Three of the survivors die, curi-
ously and variously, during their diffi-
cult journey by boat, camel-train and on
toot -
The way leads through the dangerous
hidden city of Kumra—they encounter
hospitality and hatred, plague and vio-
lence. Only David, a young American
and Ahmed, one of the original fishermen
finallv rnmnlPtß u i
nady complete the journey. Ihe book
is fairly fast-moving, humorous at times,
and compelling.
"The Plague"
Albert Camus, the French novelist
whose allegory, The Plague, took the
critics by storm, has put out a treatise
on rebellion. The Rebel, translated by
Anthony Bower (Hamish Hamilton),
which may well be a glossary or com-
mentary upon the novel.
The book, it will be remembered, was
a magnificently-imagined story of the
arrival, progress and passing of bubonic-
plague in a city, and of the citizens’ re-
actions to it:
The very best book provoked by the war
that I have come across ... a dignified
and noble book which, despite its tempt-
ing theme, is never sensational . . .
says Henry Reed.
M. Camus is an undoubted master of
the terrible and his novel is one of the most
striking that have been written on the
theme of spiritual and physical claustro-
phobia ...
says L. P. Hartley; and
The book is absolute in its authority, for
it is a statement of the dignity of human
nature, and the sanctity of the
individual . . ,
says Richard Church.
The critics put each his own, and per-
fectly probable, interpretation on the
style of the book and the lessons to be
derived from the conduct of the citizens
in it; but no one seems to have been any
surer than the present commentator what
the plague represented. One felt certain
from the feel of the writing that it did
not represent bubonic-plague, but could
have been a mental pestilence—Nazism
or Communism naturally suggested them-
selves —and from this new treatise it
would seem that this was partly right;
at any rate, this book is an indictment of
nihilism, of which the author sees totali-
tarian thought as only an end-product.
M. Camus is all for rebellion, but for
the rebellion that renews, or as Ezra
Pound took it from the Chinese, “makes
it new”; the necessary process by which
the best things of the past are changed
and preserved for the present. But the
rebellion that is a denial of all values,
and seeks to substitute nothing for what
it overthrows, is to him a form of plague ;
a disease which has afflicted Europe
during the past 150 years.
He assigns its beginnings in philosophy
and metaphysics to the Marquis de Sade,
and follows it through the poetry of
Baudelaire to “the rejection of salvation”
in the novels of Dostoievsky ; then hooks
the “absolute affirmation” of Nietzsche
to the wagon in the form of a paradox:
for Nietzsche “at least in his theory of
superhumanity, and Marx, before him,
with his classless society, both replace
the Beyond by the Later On.”
Next M. Camus traces the practical
path of nihilism, from “the Regicides”
who killed the King of France, to the
Hegelian “Deicides,” who killed God, to
the “Individual-terrorists,” who killed
coldly and virtuously for political ends,
to the “State-terrorists,” of whom Hitler
was the greatest achievement:
Hitler presents the example which is
perhaps unique in history of the tyrant
who has left absolutely no trace of his
activities. For himself, for his people, and
for the world ? he was nothing but the
epitome of suicide and murder.
He draws a distinction between Hitler
and Stalin: Hitler is “an irrational State-
terrorist” ; Stalin, a “rational State-ter-
rorist”; and his conclusion is at the same
ime his criticism of Communist theory:
The men of Europe, abandoned to the
shadows, have turned their backs upon the
fixed and radiant point of the present.
They forget the present for the future, the
fate of humanity for the delusion of power,
the misery of the slums for the mirage of
the Eternal City, ordinary justice for an
empty promised land. They despair of
personal freedom and dream of a strange
freedom of the species ; reject solitary death
and give the name of immortality to a vast
collective agony. They no longer believe
in the things that exist in the world and
in living man; the secret of Europe is that
it no longer loves life.
Reviewed Briefly
The Story of Michelangelo: Agnes
Allen (Faber). A straightforward and
unpretentious biography which should
interest many adults as well as the
(advanced) children for whom it is
written: both for the turbulent days of
Savonarola and Lorenzo the Magnificent
and for the account of Michelangelo’s
career, from his first leap into prominence
with a Cupid which either the sculptor
or his patrons palmed-off on a wealthy
cardinal as an antique, to his colossal
task of decorating 10,000 square-feet of
the Sistine chapel roof for the Pope.
* * * v
Charles Darwin and His Problems:
Evelyn Cheesman (Bell). Those who
know Evelyn Cheesman for Six-legged
Snakes in New Guinea and Insects
Indomitable will be disappointed to dis-
cover that the present book is for children
(from 12 on), also that Darwin’s sojourn
in Australia with the Beagle occupies only
about one-and-a-half pages in which he
meets the platypus, but does little else.
Nevertheless it is a clear, compact and
most readable little biography in which
the simplicity of the language may attract
rather than alarm adult readers who
would like to refresh their minds on the
Origin of Species and the theory of
evolution.
* * * *
A Beast in View: Peter de Polnay
(W. H. Allen). While not attaining the
standard of some of de Polnay’s earlier
novels, this is still good reading. The
author rings an interesting change on the
standard “wife runs away with hus-
band’s best friend” plot. Wife, for one
thing, is a particularly unlikeable charac-
ter, although beloved of husband. Hus-
band, a writer, is using a plot parallel
to the happenings of his own life, for a
film-script. If the final solutions are
somewhat too swift for absolute credi-
bility, it is not sufficiently unlikely to
dispel a feeling that such' things might
happen.
♦ * * *
Markova: Anton Dolin (W. H. Allen).
The great ballerina was born an unpre-
tentious Alice Marks, at 23 Wilberforce-
road, Hackney ; her father a Jewish min-
ing-engineer, her mother Irish. She began
dancing because a specialist, when she
was eight, declared she was knock-kneed
and flat-footed, and recommended
“fancy dancing” as an alternative cor-
rection to iron braces. At the age of nine
she won a five-guinea prize for dancing
in a picture-theatre’s talent-spotting com-
petition—and so, very quickly, to
Diaghileff patting her hand (after her first
year in his company) and telling her that
she shall come out of the chorus, be a
prima ballerina, and dance, Giselle.
The book is more like publicity than
biography; but the stage is like that;
and in its kind it is lively and readable.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 270
ACROSS
I—Some of ours recall Barkiy
when the furniture comes ashore
with Deccan features. (10)
s—Where the old salt may lie and
rot. (4)
8 I square tens in a muddled way
(ll)that aren ’t 100 riders.
10 —Prelate swallows one who is
forlorn when mother goes off
pop. (3)
H—A classification honor for neat-
ness. (5)
12—Juan put on a Russian river noted
for many centuries. (3)
13 Five score one against Victoria
both ways with regard to the big
smoke. (5)
15 Disorderly marine tunesmiths
who work like Smithy? (6)
16 —Pu arrived. (6, 2)
18 Our idols include money. (5, I’2)
20 Patch to hose the Spanish tares
of Scripture. (6)
23 The Monte Carlo ballet was so
called ship in the street. (5)
24—Eggs none to play one. (3)
25 Set-square Roman revised a
Bellini opera, and an orphan has
neither pa (5)
26 State’s back cut, or used to be.
„ 0)
27 Proceed, Diana, to twist the ego
town in Queensland. (11)
28 — Vitality of a silly ass. (4)
29 — They are hard-dealing, haggling
inheritors of pubs. (10)
Down
1 — Where to drive the summer per-
sonality who is spiritless, of
course. (11)
2 Mistakes kisses for firearms. (13)
3 By friction, rub away a beard
that grows improperly. (6)
4 Treated as a sitter away from
home if attenuated. (5, 3)
6 A child to string along with a
cock-and-bull story. (3)
7 Timber with the capacity hearth
equipment. (3-3)
9—lt may be suiting a Russian. (5)
10 —National backbone stove special-
ising in the “goes into” side of
mathematics. (8, 5)
14 —The little bores are topping to
the crook Ram. (11)
17—Row up the leg or a river near
Sydney. (8)
19—Vehicle goes south with Vivien.
(6)
21—Australian composer introduces
Little Agnes to the novel. (5)
22 Once round the course with a
courser; there’s always something
human about him. (3-3)
26 —Agitate a joker. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 269


u
&
O'!
m
m
//
MV
W
w
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with improved plates and separators designed to incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED, Birmingham Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY;.
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
Smith Sons 6c Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales 6c Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Commonwealth St.,
Sydney.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St„
Albury.
Queensland:
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Bolaover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
Victoria:
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia;
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., 15 Ackland St*
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St., Perth.
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart; T. & G»
Building, Launceston.
North Australia;
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwla,
WHEN YOU THINK BATTERIES THINK CENTURY
