

£ HOUSE
dfg
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OP
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
CARTOON COMMENTARY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3885
Wednesday, July 28, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Jeppelts
DRURY LANE'S THEATRE ROYAL
Is London’s OLDEST PLAYHOUSE
IN spite of wartime casualties there are in
central London today no fewer than fifty
theatres of which the oldest, still standing on its
original site, is the world-famous Theatre
Royal, Drury Lane. The Lane takes its name
from Sir William Drury who lived there in the
reign of Henry VIII. Previously it was known
as the Via de Aldwych, being the road which
led from the Danish settlement around St.
Clement Danes to the hamlet of St. Giles. In
the time of the Stuarts it was an aristocratic
quarter, but by the opening of the 18th century
it was already on the downgrade. Among
notable residents were Nell Gwynne and Oliver
Cromwell, who lived there in 1646.
The first Drury Lane Theatre was opened by
Killigrew in 1663 under the distinguished
patronage of Charles 11, who was a regular
patron once his eyes had alighted on the comely
features of Nell Gwynne. This original theatre
was destroyed by fire and rebuilt by Wren in
1674, but this building later followed a similar
fate. The Drury Lane Theatre of today is the
fourth of that name to stand upon the original
site. It was opened in 1812 with a Prologue
written by Lord Byron.
Until the end of the 18th century the Players
at Drury Lane were entitled to claim certain
privileges which included the right to wear
Windsor uniform, the right of attending the
Sovereign on State occasions and the right to
shoot on Crown land without a licence.
Drury Lane has known all the great players
of the English stage—Garrick, Keene, Sarah
Siddons, the Kembles, Irving, Tree and many
of the stars of pantomime and the great modern
musical productions which are a feature of
today. But of all the grand companies of
players who have trod the boards at Drury
Lane, none has achieved the fame of “pretty,
witty” Nell Gwynne who became the mistress
of Charles 11.
The theatre is one of the largest in the world,
providing accommodation for 3,000 people and,
it would seem, almost that number on the
stage so large is its size. Because of its vastness
and its suitability for large scale musical pro-
ductions such as “Oklahoma,” it has, in recent
years, specialised in this form of entertainment.
In its early days Drury Lane Theatre was
frequently the scene of riots for such reasons
as a leaky roof or the inclusion of “Papists and
Frenchmen” among the performers.
As a result the theatre enjoyed, until recent
times, the distinction of having two sentries
mounting guard at the door.
An old custom is still observed annually on
Twelfth Night when the “Baddeley Cake” is cut
and eaten on the stage by performers and
principal guests.


BOOKSEARCHING
is our business. We locate new or
out-of-print books in any language.
Send to us for that book you can’t
find ; we get results.
THE WAKELYS
C.P.O. Box 2656, Auckland, C. 1., N.Z.
PEA-PICKERS' SEQUEL
Only planets matter in Australia; people
don’t. . . In Australia this great need is
dominant; everything thirsts. The eyes stir,
refuse to rest as they see these signs, for the
thirst of the land smiles deeply into them.
So says Eve Langley in her new book
White Topee (Angus and Robertson),
and, in a sense, sums up the whole
atmosphere of the work. White Topee is
essentially thirsty —not using the word
to convey aridity, although there is
plenty of that, and intense heat in the
burning Gippsland summer she de-
scribes, but hunger and thirst after love:
love in a variety of guises—it is a flight
from love, too.
White Topee is not a novel any more
than was The Pea, Pickers, which Norman
Lindsay in 1942 called:
A sport of genius, a book that can only
be written once ... it is not a novel, for
it discards the slow development of per-
sonality and its dramatisation by action
and emotion. It is not purely a prose work,
because it puts the image before its factual
presentation.
White Topee is not even a book that
could be described as in the manner of
a picaresque, in that the girl, “Steve,”
the narrator of both works, is neither a
rogue nor a vagabond. A comparison
could convincingly be made between
Eve Langley’s books and such works of
Frederic Prokosch’s as The Asiatics, but
comparisons are not definitions.
Here Steve is again living in the Gipps-
land district of Victoria with a more-or-
less permanent address in a shack on
the, property of Jim McLachlan, for
whom she is working. He is a friend of
her family’s who is growing, of all things,
tea. Many of the people from The Pea
Pickers reappear: Leonardo della Ver-
gine, Peppino, Macca who loves Steve,
and others, and incidents in the earlier
work are from time to time recalled, so
that it can be said that this work is a
sequel. It can also be said that what
Norman Lindsay wrote, that The Pea
Pickers is “a book that can only be
written once,” also retains validity. But
although White Topee produces an en-
tirely different effect, there are similari-
ties: the exuberant almost immoderate
prose with which Eve Langley describes
the Australian landscape as no one else
has done or seems likely to do:
The day died all about us like a huge,
tough old Australian politician of the days
of King O’Malley. A great silver face
shone, and in the bearded gully the swish
of wind and sun. Deep dry sand under-
foot and sparse tea-bushes. And the awful
death of the day, spectacular and most
clamorous with death. Age all about us,
and eyes that stared, and the old aboriginal
log-like form of the country swooning
towards the year’s end.
And
Among the thin dry blades of grass a
great fever shone, and the trees drooped
more heavily than ever. Skies as blue as
the atlas seas of coastal Australia, day after
day of stiff blue skies and stiff white clouds
creaming up, thunder-tinged, but nothing
more. Floods of silver fire poured across
the dead, hot paddocks, as the mirage
mounted from its round secret altar in the
middle of the field and spun itself and its
devotees across the earth.
There are the Italian workers with
whom Steve has many friendships—their
singing, their food, and their nostalgia,
which she borrows and assumes as a sort
of spy-glass through which to see her
land with another vision. There are
episodes as richly comic as any in The
Pea Pickers, but fewer of them. One is
the surprising spectacle of the Italian
youth arrayed in a pair of swimming-
trunks squirming and lurching on his
stomach in thick dust, with a small book
propped open against a stone in front
of him.
“Cosa fa?” I questioned Leonardo.
“What is he doing?”
“Oh,” said Leonardo with obvious pride
and delight, “He squeem. . .”
“What?”
“He make for squeem ... in water . . .
like-a this . . . like-a that . . .” and he
nearly knocked me off my horse with his
whirling arms.
The explanation for this extraordinary
enterprise was found in the pages of the
book, a manual issued by the Education
Department which commanded:
Lie down in just the lightest of swimming
trunks ... lie down in just the same
position as indicated on the chart. . .” The
word “just” having been misread “dust”
by these earnest Latins.
But on the whole uproarious humor
comes less seldom here—Steve’s sister
“Blue” is no longer her companion and
in her absence Steve is a more with-
drawn and tragic figure, more tormented
by her inability to accept the limitations
of human love as opposed to the lonelier,
if paradoxically more all-embracing, loves
of intellectual and poetic endeavor. In
other words, without Blue, Steve’s curi-
ously sensual mystique, her daemon gains
the upper hand and ordains that she shall
be solitary.
There is a moving section when, in
answer to a letter from Macca (the faith-
ful Mackinnon) in which he says;—
“. . . we two, haunters of old bark huts
and red fires by night and all things Aus-
tralian, could be so utterly happy, too.
Please be sensible and say yes, instead of
sending me pages of love and an undecided
no. 1 know you love me. But will you
marry me? I love you dreadfully.”
Steve meets him one night and they talk
round the fire he makes, but,
I thought of nothing but Time. Time
was my passion. And so in the end, we
could not agree to marry, because I wished
only to be alone and worship the past for
the sake of it, and poetry.
Although she decides for poetry
against Macca, it is not really enough, as
she finds when she meets him once again
accidentally, although she has longed
for the meeting. He is picking flowers
for the wife of a hotelkeeper whom he
is taking to a dance. So she tells Macca
at last that she loves him and he replies,
“I’m sorry, Steve, I can’t return it. If
I had loved you still I’d have come for
you long ago.”
But in the intoxication of the moment
I was not hurt, for he was with me. That
was all. 1 felt no sorrow, I knew no pain
in that hour. Only the grandeur of being
thrust out into my desert, only the power
of being flung back to regain power, for
oh I must press, for forward I must go and
carry him off by the force of my soul and
the peculiarity of my love.
It is in this, and later passages revolv-
ing around Steve’s inevitable yet half-
unwilling rejection of Macca that the
White Topee differs most sharply from
its predecessor. From the moment when
it becomes quite plain that, in spite of
other people’s friendly efforts, the lovers
are never to marry, the book becomes
imbued with a tragic sense of loss and
fate that was, perhaps, implicit earlier but
becomes explicit here. Steve is going to
leave Gippsland and, indeed, the book
concludes with her oddly-dressed, fool-
hardy journey to cross the Victorian Alps
on horseback.
She plays with the idea of eventual
return, but one does not feel that this
possibility is to be taken seriously. Be-
hind her, in Gippsland, she has left many
of her possessions—the poems pinned
to the wall of her hut (and many of Eve
Langley’s poems are quoted throughout
the book), and poems from her friends,
and translations from the Chinese:
The careless gallants of 00-ling,
Ride forth, caparisoned in Spring . . .
There is a tremendous air of “careless
gallantry” about Steve’s departure—the
ordering of riding clothes —not the
divided skirt suggested by the Bond-
street tailor:
Not appropriate, not appropriate . . .
now, if I were riding over the Dividing
Range, there’d be some sense in it. No
good for the Alps, at all.
And, at the end, the half-serious fantasy
of Oscar Wilde suddenly finding himself
sitting in a buggy bowling along a dry
Australian road. In the buggy are a man
and a woman holding a baby. Wilde,
with “the most dreadful despair and
horror possible,” exclaimed, ‘‘Heavens!
Tin the baby!” and the baby was
Steve . . .
Steve, under her white topee —symbol
of the “rich and strong and chivalrous”
British race —is herself symbol of one
very powerful sort of richness, strength
and chivalry, of the sort of person who
can say, with her, in a “mood of dreadful
sorrow,” “I loathe unhappiness myself
. . . What is there to be sad about, any-
how?”
NANCY KEESING.
The Red Page
Norman Douglas
Richard Aldington begins his “persona]
recollections of Norman Douglas, Pino
Orioli and Charles Prentice,” Pinorman
(Heinemann), in a tone of even candor
and sunny reminiscence. Orioli was the
Florentine bookseller and publisher, Pren-
tice a member of the publishing firm,
Chatto and Windus, and:
The idea is to put down, as truthfully as
I can, after the uproar and disgusts of the/
last decade, notes on the three which may
be of some use to future biographers of
Douglas.
We are charmingly introduced to the
Florentine situation as it was when
Aldington first met Douglas at the end of
1930, aged 62, tall, heavily-built, insepar-
able from the little fat comedian, Orioli,
who played a kind of literary Sancho
Panza to Douglas’s Mefistofelian Quixote.
There is chit-chat about Douglas’s tastes
in food, more coarsely-recondite than
epicureanly-delicate ; there are stories of
motor-trips ; and from a word dropped
here and a bit of research there a picture
of Douglas gradually builds up—his
German upbringing, his diplomatic ser-
vice, his own story of an affair with a
Russian woman of such eminence that on
its discovery he was lucky to get out of
Russia alive ; a list of his movements all
over the world compiled from his own
book, Looking Back.
By page 112 Aldington considers it is
time reluctantly to put in a few darker
tones: Douglas’s embarrassing and life-
long affairs with “depraved-looking slum-
children” which had got him into trouble
everywhere he went; and his recklessness
with his friends’ reputation and safety,
illustrated by his insertion into the proofs
of an English translation of an 18th-cen-
tury pamphlet Orioli was publishing in
Italy some four-letter English words that
were faithfully set into the completed
book, and his flight from the scene, and
leaving of Orioli to face the prosecution.
His next chapter is a discussion of
Douglas’s most famous book, South
Wind, in which one J.S., who Mr.
Aldington says is a Frenchman well-
versed in English, puts the point very
strongly that Douglas is little more than
a rehash of Oscar Wilde, from whom he
gets his epigrams, and George Moore,
from whom he gets his satanic air of
wickedness.
So far the procedings have increased
in gravity, but have been almost without
rancor, but at the core of the next matter
is D. H. Lawrence, and as Aldington him-
self says: —
It is strange what an Ate of discord
Lawrence was in his generation, and what
an amount of bickering and bad ink he
managed to breed....
So much so, that anyone who followed
the mewing and clawing of the Laurentian
catteries as they were disclosed for our
delectation must feel a little bilious at the
thought of returning to them. In short,
then, Lawrence put Douglas in his novel
Aaron’s Rod as “James Argyle”—-and,
according to Aldington, with his usual
“laughter” that is “about as ‘playful’ as
a jaguar which has just caught a peccary.”
So Douglas, who rewrote much of
Orioli’s Memoirs of a Bookseller (Orioli,
it will be remembered, printed Lady
Chatterley in Italy) inserted venomous
attacks upon Lawrence’s meanness.
Aldington, in an article in “Esquire” or
“The Atlantic Monthly” dedicated to
helping Douglas’s American sales, men-
tioned the affair, with, however, a con-
siderable reservation as to Douglas’s
gentility:
When I wrote that, I had no intention
whatever of annoying the old gentleman.
1 said a lot in praise of him and his books,
hoping he might be as pleased as he had
been before....
Well, the old gentleman was not
pleased; and at the thought of this
Aldington really blows his top. Much to
his own surprise, as he says in the con-
cluding chapter:
This “Ave Atque Vale” has turned into
something much nearer “A Soldier’s Fare-
well” than I intended or expected, but the
logic of facts is irresistible.
For this reason, it is an interesting
book: we. see the author setting out to
draw a pleasant picture from his store of
memories and gradually being confronted
with a frightful Djinn, a really wicked
old man. But it is not a nice book, and
it seems unlikely that even Aldington will
be pleased to have got it out of his
system.
Stephen Potter on Humor
Stephen Potter, the learned comic
(author of the treatise on Gamesmanship
and also editor of the Nonesuch
Coleridge), has produced a 250-page
anthology. Sense of Humor (Reinhardt).
Mr. Potter is not here a painstaking
historical anthologist, but a casual, per-
sonal, anthologist, taking his humor
wherever he remembers it, and he remem-
bers it in the queerest places. One of his
best sections is that of “Unconscious
Humor,” where we are surprised to find
the first and second gentlemen’s opening
of Shakspeare’s “Cymbeline” adduced as
Shakspeare’s “self-parody”:
If this is not self-parody, it is typical of
Shakspeare’s impatience, in his last plays,
with the more mechanical side of construc-
tion: and to blazes, particularly, with dis-
guising the exposition.
He also gets amusement out of foot-
notes to Shakspeare, such as that in the
Arden edition of Henry IV:
Text
Lord Bardolph: Who keeps the gate here,
ho!
Footnote:
1. Who here, ho! “Who” is here, I
think, the indefinite (“He who”), and not
the interrogative pronoun as is implied, for
instance, by the punctuation, “Who keeps
the gate here? ho!” (Oxford Shakspeare),
and “Who keeps the gate here, ho?” (Cam-
bridge Shakspeare). “Who keeps the gate”
is a periphrasis ( = “Porter”) of a kind usual
in calling to servants or others, in attend-
ance or out of sight. Cf. 2 Henry VI. 1. iv-
-82: “York Who’s within there, ho!
Enter a Serving-man ”
This is not half of the disquisition. But
the best thing in this section is the series
of letters exchanged by Arnold Bennetl
and Hugh Walpole, which you would
swear had been done as cruel and libellous
parodies, although the extract from
Birkett’s famous cross-examination of the
expert witness in the Rouse case, begin-
ning, “What is the coefficient of the
expansion of brass?” or Baroness Orczy
recalling the occasion of the birth of the
Scarlet Pimpernel, or the “Mass Observa-
tion” account written by a boy on his
gang’s raid on a warehouse, run it close.
In subsequent chapters he takes his
examples from a Tommy Handley show,
from the clues and answers to “Torque-
mada” crosswords, e.g.:
Land of waving palms - (Whitechapel),
from Tristram Shandy, from Herbert Far-
jeon’s skit on the sounds made by con-
tract-bridge players, from the film-criti-
cisms of Miss Lejeune:
Miss Dietrich, dismissing the trifling
thought of her husband, the Cabinet Minis-
ter, indicates that they might meet again, "
and elope, next Wednesday, at five-thirty.
It is Paris, rnon Dieu, and cinema, and
spring.
He finds humor in the producer’s direc-
tions on one of his own 8.8. C. scripts;
the long telephone-conversation that opens
a Rattigan play ; and he does not forget
that horrible scene from Huxley’s Point
Counter Point when the young scientist
Illidge essays a lordly and contemptuous
descent of the stairs in his employer’s
mansion, and slips and staggers wildly,
waving his arms, one of the most painful
moments in modern literature.
W. R. Sickert on Millais, Margaret
Barton on Garrick, Tom Driberg on what
Margaret Rawlings said to the Buchman-
ites ; self-portaits, not always flattering,
taken from the works of well-known
writers —the humor is not always obvious,
and maybe this, and the many new and
contemporary places he finds it in con-
stitute the pleasure of the book:
I think of 1910-1940, from the neo-Geor-
gians to the new slang of World War 11,
as the age most thoroughly tangled with
the web of humor, the threads of which
permeate not only the essayists and novel-
ists, but the poets and philosophers as well.
Bladen and Piecot
Peter Bladen’s The Old Ladies at
Newington (Meanjin), which won the
long-poem section of the Commonwealth
Jubilee literary competition, 1951, is one
of the best-sustained of Australian long
poems; 2500-3000 lines, it must be, and
very nicely put out in some 80 pages in
paper-covered boards, with the assistance
of the Commonwealth Literary Fund, to
sell at 10s. 6d.
The poet takes us on a visit to a home
for old women; he shows them gloating
over presents of clothing, etc.; he pauses
at their bedsides: a “Poetess,” a deluded
“Queen of Wales,” “The Lady from the
Vineyards,” an unregenerate prostitute,
an old black woman, “The Lady from
Vaudeville,” a concert in The Parlor”
—and in between these main subjects are
interludes suggested by them —medita-
tions on lost childhood and children, on
the use and treatment of the soil, on
destiny and hopes of immortality—of
which the most remarkable is “The
Bridge,” in which, with a few harsh words
for poor old Jack Lang and a whoop of
joy over De Groot, The Liberator, our
harbor-coathanger is sung as a national
symbol.
Mr. Bladen presents ail these matters
in musical verse made by contracting
and expanding a basic line of five stresses,
irregularly but exactly rhymed:
And after
My uncle was bringing me here, I would
silly-plough -the strips
Between the rows of vines, and join in the
laughter
With the kookaburras, or when the tender
tips
Of the new canes were getting
Ready to make their green leaves in the
spring,
Or when we worked all day till the sun was
setting
And filled our buckets with heavy bunches
of fruit —I would sing
So many songs.
He shows us the old women, not so
much with the clarity of poetic insight as
with the unrelenting sympathy of the
district-visitor, preferring to soap his own
feelings into a lather of words rather
than to etch at the old girls with caustic
soda. The softness of his painting calls
to mind, as such things will, its contrary,
(Continued on page 55)


Anthony Horderns’ has
Cool Summer fashions for homes!
[Windows are the background of all furnishing schemes, so give your windows the perfect finish they deserve with our
beautiful “Hordura” blinds—blinds designed to give the maximum amount of shade and protection from
the summer sun to your precious furnishings. We can supply Venetians direct from our factory in either wood or
metal in materials that are the finest available and work carried out by skilled workmen under careful supervision.
xcaatitti
it*.
hYW^NvWi-rMW*
v t :•;
T*******m**
mmm*
jS^W^tiTOi
»
—'
' -
Hi
isi
" ’ 0^^
“<~-W—,
m$0^4)
i
■
.-,: ...
.- - i
_— j
iiil :
.
:: i
'MMMM
Hor dura Wood Venetians
Our wood Venetian blinds are made from fine
selected timbers. The laths are made from
selected Canadian cedar, and we will gladly
match any colour to suit an individual furnish-
ing scheme in your home, modern or traditional.
ILLUSTRATED.
Hor dura Metal Venetians
Our Hordura metal lath blinds are made from a
specially processed lightweight aluminium lath
which has a baked enamel finish that will not
break or chip and is easily cleaned. These
blinds have a wood head rail and neatly
moulded fascia which covers all working parts.
Ten lovely pastel shades available. Include
Cream, Pink, Blue, Green, Primrose and Ivory.
Have your Canvas and Holland made to
ORDER
We will make up canvas and Holland to order for you in any size you wish,
and in any style you may require to blend with your home and furnishings.
SB*
b*l
Holland Blinds
Genuine best quality Scotch Holland
Blinds are made to any size and
various styles such as Plain, Kilted
or Fringed. Colours availible are
Beige, Brown, Reseda, Buff, Jade
Green, Cream, Red and White.
Canvas Blinds
We make up all types of canvas
blinds in Plain, Drop or Florentine
Style. There is a large range of
designs from which to choose. We
can do plain stripes or gay multi
stripes in either woven canvas or
the famous Brella proofed canvas.
df
gd
fgd
Send for our free booklet
Send for our helpful pamphlet showing you
how to measure for blinds and illustrating
various styles in all types of blinds, Vene-
tians, Holland and Canvas. Quotations free.
m
». Vi
■
* ■ '■*'* ... 4
...
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns’
fg
CANVAS AND HOLLAND BLINDS, THIRD FLOOR. ANTHONY
BOX 2712 G.P.O. SYDNEY. M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 28, 1954
VoL 75—No, 3885
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 i
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A CHANGE OF HEART
With Federal Parliament opening in a few days’ time
there is an evident need for a national policy of
development for Australia based upon commonsense
co-operation between the Commonwealth and the
States, and upon the general principle of a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay. Not a national policy
operated by civil servants, but an elastic policy which
functions through the sense of public duty and private
enterprise of individual Australians; through local
effort co-ordinated on a national scale and aimed
at expansion of earning-power for both primary and
secondary industries, the spreading of population
(which now huddles more and more into two or three
corners of the continent where there are great cities)
and the provision of conditions generally under which
we can service ourselves economically and compete
with world countries in trade on something like even
terms. Defence should be a primary ingredient of
national thinking. It should be considered, not, as it is
thought of now as an ugly necessity which takes away
funds from their natural task of vote-buying, but in the
way in which a business-firm thinks of insurance and
security and accident-prevention.
Australia can’t continue to populate and still live
on the kind of resources which now support her people
in luxury without much effort. At present its develop-
mental policy, in terms of free enterprise, is ordered
outside the Commonwealth by the people who buy
wool and wheat and other primary products. And the
Australian economy is constructed internally to meet
a demand for leisure and luxury which would be con-
sidered idle and feckless in Continental Europe and
madly extravagant in the more pinched areas of Asia.
There are not even the beginnings of a real
national constructive policy which goes down to grass-
roots, a policy to flavor the whole of Australian think-
ing as German and Canadian and United States policies
do that of the people of their countries. In all of
these, and in a superlative sense in the United Kingdom,
there is a universal urge among the people to do and
produce things better than other people, and in
inventiveness and drive. In Australia the urge is rather
to have things than to do them. And this outlook can
succeed only while there is enough to “have” all round.
That won’t be long unless the soil can be made
more prolific, costs of production can be brought down
to world levels, the production-content of labor can
be increased and the objective of loaf-and-plenty, which
has been held up as the most desirable ingredient of
the Golden Age, is replaced by something sane, based
on healthy reality.
There are some elements in Australian life which
at present are steadily rotting. The transport system
of the country’s biggest city (Sydney), for instance, is
in a state of decay and folding up, due to the fact that
the Government which is trusted to run it is trying to
carry it on without discipline, without system, without
any conception of duty either in many of its employees
or in those who are supposed to captain them. And
the worst feature is that the viewpoint that the
individual has the right to loaf, to strike for a day when
his Communist organisers desire him to listen to Mr.
Rupert Lockwood, to leave thousands of weary city
workers standing in the rain in the middle of a hard
winter in order to give a display of union “mateship,”
has been built by national leaders who glory in their
outlook and are proud of their vote-buying ability.
That the coal industry, with the best and most com-
fortable pits in the world, must begin to close down
when local consumption is satisfied because it has no
export trade as a result of its high costs is fantastic.
That a main road between Sydney and the most settled
capital in Australia, and that between North Coast
towns and Brisbane, are still partly unbitumened would
be unbelievable in 1954 in any other continent. That
some coastal shipping services have had to be discon-
tinued, and that shipping is rationed on the coast by
Government edict, would be inconceivable to the
vigorous age of the ’eighties and ’nineties, when the
whole continent was energetically building new railways
with not a care as to whether ships competed with them
and when ability to work was still a matter of pride. ■
That huge areas of country should be denuded of
timber, that timber in a pristine country only 160-odd
years after settlement, should be almost as dear as steel
scarcely bears thinking about it. And that a Com-
monwealth with three people to the square mile on the
fringe of Asia should be spending, every year, hundreds
of pounds a head on government and social services
which might go into pasture-improvement, roadbuild-
ing, creation of solid industry, cost-reducing measures
to enable us to get into the secondary-industry export-
market seems the height of madness,
Australia has overfull employment again, with
production at a new peak, but again we are putting
too much money into cars, refrigerators, social services,
“free medicine,” education systems which can’t produce
enough trained artisans even for the present limited
needs, and hospitals which can’t get nurses because it
is an easier life to be a typist. Not enough real capital
is going into essential services and national assets.
The first step towards the genuine development of
Australia is a large change of heart. It is time that the
country began to live again with zest and purpose. Its
publicists, especially the Government ones, argue
enthusiastically that it is growing; but it is not in
producing acreages, or labor output per man, or in
quantity of production in proportion to its increase in
population and wealth.
It is becoming every year more like an over-
fertilised vegetable— too much leaves and bulk and too
little fruit to show for what is put into it. The Federal
Government might help by adjusting its taxation
system to stimulate production by encouragement of
personal effort in development.
Twin Obsessions
Drinking and gambling have been variously described
as the two greatest vices, hobbies, curses, pastimes and
obsessions of the Australian people. Observant visitors
travelling around Australia in the past few months,
reading the newspapers in the capital cities and noting
the utterances of State politicians, would probably
differ over the first four classifications, but they would
be on common ground in feeling that there was much
evidence to support the obsession charge in the four
eastern States, at any rate. Everywhere in the Eastern
Standard Time zone it is now possible to buy tickets in
a State lottery, despite the fact that the whole of that
area is governed by “Labor”-Socialists who, according
to their professed principles, should be heartily
opposed to such gambles. One of the alleged aims of
Socialism is to bring about a more equitable distribu-
tion of wealth; the effect of a lottery is to take from
the many to give to the few.
That, of course, is not the official purpose of State
lotteries. Their real function is to raise money for
hospitals ; the largesse handed out as prizes each week
—in New South Wales almost daily—to “Black Cats,”
“Our Turn Nows” and “Last Times” is merely incidental
to that charitable purpose. As these Government
gambles are run in the name of charity it might be
thought that the statesmen responsible for conducting
them would at least be charitable towards each other.
This, however, is not the case. Each Socialist Govern-
ment proclaims its own gamble the only one in which
its citizens may legally invest; all others are “foreign,”
and although it may be quite virtuous and charitable
to donate five shillings to a foreign mission where the
beneficiaries are African negroes or Pacific-islanders
it is not at all virtuous and not a scrap charitable to give
it to a foreign lottery run for the benefit of hospitals
in another State. With Socialist lotteries charity not
only begins at home; it stays at home.
Not that charity enters much more into the
thoughts of persons buying lottery-tickets than it does
those of the punters who back their fancy at the races.
But lotteries, with their offer of a chance of easy
money in the name of charity, have the effect of
killing real charity. As Victoria will find out in the
next 12 months, wherever the Government gamble is
introduced the springs of free-giving dry up.
Lotteries, what with the results of drawings, inter-
views with prizewinners (with photographs) and specu-
lation as to the possible outcome of competition from
other States, have had plenty of space in the Press in
recent months, though not, of course, as much as the
other official gambles —horseracing, the trots and the
dogs. But for consistency in headline-winning and
front-page stealing they’re not in the race with booze.
The Maxwell Liquor Commission, though essentially
a domestic matter for New South Wales, provided the
newspapers all over the continent with a serial which
ran for months, having the unusual advantage that
both drinkers and anti-liquor interests found in it
arguments to support their own beliefs.
The drink-obsession is not confined to drinkers;
it is probable that many anti-liquor advocates spend
more time thinking about drink, speaking about drink
and writing about drink than do most of those whom
they seek to save from its clutches.
In three of the eastern States the Press and political
“spokesmen” have been talking liquor-reform for
months. Some of Premier Cain’s followers have been
urging him to bring down a bill to extend hotel-trading
hours. Cain says he’ll think it over, but it isn’t likely
that he’ll make any attempt to translate the thought into
action —it would further offend the section he has
already antagonised by admitting Tatt.’s to Melbourne.
In Queensland legislation to be introduced in the
next session of Parliament includes amendments to the
liquor-laws to increase the number of club-licences
and permits for cafds to serve liquor with meals. Addi-
tional club-licences were one of the definite recom-
mendations contained in the Maxwell Report in New
South Wales, and the Cahill Government can scarcely
fail to include a provision for this in their Liquor Act
amendments when, if ever, they decide to act on the
Maxwell Report. At the present time the angle of the
liquor-trade that is getting the most publicity in the
Sydney Press is the agitation for the one-bottle licence.
Under the existing law a limited number of grocers
are permitted to sell beer and wine on condition that
the minimum quantity they may sell is one dozen
bottles. Lately there have been several convictions
for selling one or two bottles, and public opinion has
been very much on the side of the storekeepers
involved. Petitions for the legalising of single-bottle
sales seem to have received support from large numbers
of members on both sides of politics, and such an
amendment would probably find an easy passage.
Opposition to one-bottle licences comes from a
strange alliance between “the trade” and the temper-
ance movement —a pair of apparent incompatibles who
also run together whenever there is an attack upon
six-o’clock closing in New South Wales. The logic
which assumes there will be less drinking if people are
forced to go to hotels for their one-bottle requirements,
and if hotels close at six, yet sees nothing strange in the
support of the same two principles by those whose
continued prosperity depends on more drinking is a
little hard to follow. If the Commonwealth Year-Book
figures are any guide there is far less overdrinking in
Victoria, where single-bottle licences have been in
force for years, than in New South Wales, where the
take-a-dozen rule applies. Convictions for drunken-
ness per 10,000 of the population are three times
higher in New South Wales than in Victoria. In both
these States hotels close at 6 p.m.
Reference to the same authority shows that in
Tasmania, where the shutters don’t go up until 10 p.m.,
the incidence of drunkenness is only a tenth that of
early-closing N. S. Wales.
There may be no connection between the two
facts; maybe the Sydney police are more vigilant than
those of Hobart or the Sydney drinkers less capable
of carrying their liquor. On the other hand the figures
do suggest that restrictions may have an effect on
drinking habits quite opposite to that intended.
Restrictions may also explain the apparent obsession
with the subject of drink.
Moorilond Election-year
From Auckland: Politicians have hit on a strange
idea for settling the question for or against PAYE
(pay-as-you-earn) income-tax; both Nationalists and
Labor-Socialists are preparing to make it an election
issue, and as the two parties are making the move
together electors will be caught either way. It’s just
another example of opponents thinking alike, which
has been a characteristic of N.Z. politics, on a number
of important issues, for years. Both parties have been
against joining G.A.T.T., both have stood for lavish
social-security handouts, both have preferred direct
controls to monetary and fiscal weapons, both have
been openly and unashamedly pledged to overfull
employment; and now, it seems, both are agreed that
the time has come to tax on current income. The
points of agreement are more numerous than the differ-
ences, although these are important, such as the
Nationalists’ leaning towards private enterprise and
their traditional loyalty to the primary producers, while
the Socialists would nationalise everything and reduce
everyone to the status of a wage- or salary-earner.
On the question of PAYE, anyone opposed to fr-
aud there are many, especially among the Govern-
ment’s supporters —will be in a quandary if both parties
are committed to the change when they go on the
hustings. There was a false-alarm in June, when it was
given out prematurely that PAYE would be brought in
for those on fixed incomes, mainly wage-and-salary
folk, next April. The National party thought this was
missing a chance to catch votes, seeing that April would
be several months after the election, and told the
Government to wait, although this meant shelving the
issue for a year, because Parliament can’t meet again
until next year and the scheme couldn’t be launched
in the time.
Most workers would welcome PAYE as a way of
escape from ever-growing lump-sum payments once a
year (in February-March), and a good number of
employers would prefer it because workers who
haven’t the money to pay tax equal to about a month’s
wages often turn-in their jobs when the tax demands
go out. The Government, of course, has to do some-
thing about the mounting total of overdue taxes.
Inspectors can’t keep up with men who go from job to
job, and there aren’t enough inspectors anyhow. To
collect the tax week-by-week would be child’s play
by comparison and would cut the loss. Employers
would do a lot of the work that now falls on the
tax department, the roaming instinct among the spend-
thrift type would be curbed, and taxation would keep
in step with income, instead of being a year behind,
as it is under the present system.
Service from employers as unpaid tax-collectors is
one of the attractions of PAYE to the Government,
and employers as a class don’t object strongly when
they think of the possible gain through more settled
employment. Besides, they’re already committed to
collect Is. 6d. in the £ social-security tax, which is a
fairly considerable instalment of PAYE, and some big
employers are making weekly deductions from wages
to meet arrears of tax of scores of men on their staffs.
Farmers are the strongest objectors, and they’ve
done most to hold up the change. Many seasonal
workers in the country have been able to put enough
pressure on farmers in the post-war years to force them
to pay the social-security tax, as a kind of wages-
addition, and they’ll be wanting to pass on income-tax
the same way. Casual hands like their money tax-free,
whatever the tax is, and where men are scarce they
have a habit of getting their way.
Behind all this there’s the big question of tax-
reform, which still hasn’t been tackled. Along with
reform there’s the problem of tax-dodging by those
not so easily nailed down as wage-earners. If the
millions lost yearly could be collected it would be a
simple matter to cut taxes, but overinflated demands
are a big incentive to hide income. The anomalies and
injustices that have crept in over the years haven’t
helped to make taxpayers more honest.


LEAN AND HUNGRY LOOKS
“And, after this, let Casar seat him sure;
For we will shake him, or worse days endure.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Indo-China and After
Last week at Geneva M. Mendes-
France, the Radical-Socialist French
Premier, carried out his promise to
achieve a settlement of the Indo-China
war by July 20, the date on which he had
agreed to leave office if he failed.
There was scarcely a chance of his
failing, because the French in Indo-China
were beaten after eight years’ fighting,
and if it was a “personal triumph” for
the French Premier, as Sydney “Herald”
remarked, it lay only in making an agree-
ment before the French forces were
pushed into the sea and nothing was left
to bargain about. In plain fact, it was
a triumph for Soviet Russia, a “triumph”
to which the United States, the United
Kingdom and other Western nations gave
their reluctant assent along with Com-
munist China.
That the Communists do not take over
Laos and Cambodia matters very little to
them ; for all practical purposes those
two unstable entities are under their
domination, and the Vietminh Premier
is already licking his lips.
The campaigns which have cost 90,000
French lives, the lives of hundreds of
thousands of civilians, great misery and
destruction of property have resulted in
Communism pushing itself another thous-
and miles further southward to a point
where its territory lies right athwart the
direct air-route from Hong Kong to
Bangkok, on which a Skymaster of
Cathay Airways was brutally shot down
in the usual cold-blooded Communist
fashion almost before the ink on the
cease-fire treaty was dry. The incident
brings Red China nearer to open war with
the United States.
Communism is now within 700 miles
of Manila. It has taken over by right
the control of 13 million of the 22 million
people in Indo-China, of the rich Red
River Delta, of the ports of Hanoi and
Haiphong, of the great rice-producing
area of the Red River Delta, of Vietnam’s
main coal supplies, iron, tin and zinc
sources, its textile industry and cement-
plants, French-owned.
The division, of course, is based on an
agreement, under supervision of a
separate neutral commission, for each
State, provided by Canada, India and the
Polps, and continues until free elections
are held for the whole area in July, 1956.
Anybody who knows the Communist
method will know how “free” they are
likely to be in the north. By July, 1956,
by hook or by crook, it will be assured
that northern Vietnam is tucked behind
the Iron Curtain for good, with all its
population save the teeming refugees who
are in progress of making their unhappy
way out of it, if there is anywhere left
for them to go.
The only good thing that can be said
of the arrangement, as some U.S. Con-
gressman remarked, is that it has
“stopped the bloodshed.”
Indo-China in the scheme of world de-
fence no longer matters except in so far
as it affects the outlook of Asia towards
the West. The Communists have been
pronounced “generous” ; but they were
only “generous” because they were deal-
ing with a French politician not very far
removed in his own ideas from their own
and because they are bent on winning
France away from the Western defence
organisations, neutralising her while they
deal with Germany and pave the way to
achieve a base from which they can cope
with an isolated Britain and eventually
the United States and the Dominions,
beginning from a stepping-stone across
the English Channel.
The disappearance of Dr. John, Wes-
tern Germany’s Chief of Intelligence, fol-
lowing immediately after the armistice
was one of those dovetailing events which
are so characteristic of Communist
strategy and tactics. And it was charac-
teristic of Moscow also that it should
have cut and dried and ready to lay on
the table- at once following the Indo-
China '“settlement” another delusive plan
for a European conference to discuss
“collective security.” Collective security
against what?
The only voluntarily armed nations in
Europe or the world are the Communist
nations, which not only remained armed
but proceeded to expand their arma-
ment at the end of World War 11. All
the other countries stripped themselves
in 1945-46, and only rearmed in the face
of the huge and menacing efforts of the
Kremlin and its satellites and slave
peoples.
The proposal put forward now from
Moscow is almost the same as that re-
jected by the West earlier in the year. It
will certainly be rejected again, because
there can be no guarantees under
present conditions from Russia and
China, except the one that they will
not give—abolition of armaments beyond
normal defence under world inspection,
international control and inspection of
atomic energy, the opening of Com-
munist frontiers to trade and human
intercourse as all other civilised frontiers
are open, the abolition of the slavery on
which so much of the Russian and
Chinese economies are based, and the
abandonment by the Communist bloc of
its ideal of peace only through the tenets
of “Leninism —Stalinism,” which means
through the establishment of a world
Communist republic.
All the current Communist victories
and moves has done is to bring into being
a wider conception of Western defence to
embrace South-East Asia and the British
Pacific Dominions as well as the areas
covered by Nato. The world situa-
tion is such that it cannot remain static.
It becomes more dangerous every day.
Our Odd Constitution
Some features of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution have been highlighted again by
proceedings at the royal commission on
Communism which has adjourned to
reopen in Sydney on August 9, the delay
possibly being due to the desire to see
the amending Commonwealth legislation
dealing with the commission passed
before the next sittings.
The position at present seems to be
Gilbertian, proving that in a Federation
the part can be greater than the whole.
There can be no treason against the Com-
monwealth —Commonwealth law knows
nothing of it, and, indeed, if the Common-
wealth wished to deal with a matter which
might have seemed to involve treason, it
would have to go cap in hand to the
sovereign State of N. S. Wales to act for
it.
Similarly, it would seem from a lay-
man’s glance at the judicature sections of
the Constitution, the Federal Parliament
has no power to give to a royal commis-
sion authority to punish those who treat
it with contempt, unless it is specifically
set up as a court.
Section 71 of the Constitution reads:
The judicial power of the Commonwealth
shall be vested in a Federal Supreme
Court, to be called the High Court of Aus-
tralia, and in such other Federal courts
as the Parliament creates and in such
other courts as it invests with Federal
jurisdiction.
Under present circumstances, it seems
that if persons disobey the Royal Com-
missions Act and refuse to answer ques-
tions, to punish them the Crown must
prosecute them in the High Court, the
only authority which now can deal with
them, or some other court invested with
Federal jurisdiction.
This curious position, however, is only
one manifestation of a general state of
affairs which makes selective amendment
of the Constitution vital.
ni]>i
Whpse Constitution?
“In the ACT”: As a short-term expedi-
ent, the appointment of an all-party
Parliamentary committee to consider con-
stitutional amendments may result in
suggestions for a way out of the present
electoral difficulties—although these pro-
posals will still have to be endorsed at a
referendum. As things now stand, a
Senate election will have to be held in
1956, and future Senate polls would be
out of step with those for the House of
Reps. This situation is politically annoy-
ing for both sides of politics, it is expen-
sive, and it could lead to future political
instability, although it seems to offer the
Senate its only chance of some indepen-
dence of thought and action. The danger
is that once the politicians have thought
of a way out of this tangle, with each
side seeking all possible advantages, the
committee might remain in being and
thus secure undesirable status and in-
fluence.
The Prime Minister has agreed that if
the committee produces “pretty satisfac-
tory results,” there will be a strong dis-
position to keep it going, although not
necessarily as a standing committee.
Menzies has an understandable lack of
enthusiasm about constitutional reform
in practice, while admitting its desir-
ability in principle, and such a committee
would undoubtedly move some of the
burden from the shoulders of the party
leaders. But the Constitution is not a
plaything or a creature of the Parliament,
and it is surely essential that the clear
separation should remain properly under-
stood in the public mind Any public
convention which reviews the Constitu-
tion will doubtless be heavily weighted
by politicians, but the people as a whole
must also be represented, on a scale
which ensures that their interests and the
powers of the High Court are fully pre-
served in any proposed amendments.
A Parliamentary committee can be
no substitute for such a convention, and
should never come to be regarded as one.
Its pending job may be urgent, but its
work should cease when that job is
completed.
Resumption-values
A judgment which established a prin-
ciple in the matter of Government
resumptions of land in New South Wales
was given by the Privy Council last week.
It concerned an appeal by the N. S. Wales
Government against a Supreme Court
judgment granting the trustees of an
estate compensation for land which had
been compulsorily resumed in September,
1946. The land comprised about 48 acres
at Gordon, on Sydney’s North Shore, and
the Valuer-General had estimated its
value at £20,000, at which figure the
authorities sought to put through the deal.
The trustees protested, and eventually the
Land and Valuation Court fixed the price
at £35,000, including a retention-value of
£9750. A Government appeal to the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court failed and
the case went to the Privy Council.
In its judgment the Judicial Committee
said that, although the resumption had
been made while land-sales were still con-
trolled, the control was of a temporary
nature, and there were circumstances
present in a sale of land which differenti-
ated it from sales of consumable goods.
It continued: —■
Whatever formula Is adopted it must be
one which gives effect in such cases as the
present to the element of value to the
owner in being deprived of his right to
retain his property with a view to sale in
the future, at a date which may reasonably
be expected to be not far distant, at a
price whch will almost certainly exceed
the present controlled price.
The formula decided upon by the
Privy Council was a price
a vendor wiUlng to but not anxious to
sell would agree to, if he were allowed,
and a wilUng purchaser would give to
obtain the land, although he in his turn
would be subject to the control of land-
sales in reselling.
The direct effect of the decision was
that the Government’s appeal was dis-
missed with costs. Indirect results will
probably be a batch of claims for the
retention-value of other land similarly
acquired.
Whether it will stir the conscience of
the Cahills into agreeing to the principle
of paying a just price for all land resumed
under compulsion remains to be seen —
and believed.
Two Voices
C D. Renshaw, president of the Wheat-
growers’ Union of N. S. Wales, has told
the 25th annual conference of the union
that, in view of the world’s large wheat
surpluses, “any man who can carry
on without growing wheat should do so,
and thereby save the industry and help
to bring sanity back into the field of
wheat.” There were other expert utter-
ances at the conference, Mr. J. P. Cass,
one of the N. S. Wales representatives
on the Australian Wheat Board, for ex-
ample, said that it was the policy of the
board to urge that importing countries
in the International Wheat Agreement
should be called on to accept the remain-
der of their quotas whether they wanted
them or not. And he added that per-
sonally, he had “no faith in the agreement
and thought that when it was put to the
test it would not stand up to it.”
The executive was almost equally
critical about the Socialistic policy which
has ruled in wheat-production. It opined
that, after having accepted the idea that
it was their national duty to increase
wheat-production, growers were now
without adequate financial compensation
and without sufficient inducement to
maintain present rates of output.
Evidently these people are all gloomy
pessimists who have not heard of Mr.
J. ,J. Cahill, owner of a stout heart,
who, basing his ideas on the scheme of
price-guarantees approved by the Com-
monwealth and five States, Victoria dis-
senting, proposes —a State election being
due next year —to “work for the intro-
duction of a five-year stabilisation
scheme, providing for a domestic price
of 14s. a bushel or the ruling international
wheat-agreement or free-market export-
price—which, of course, now is more—
but at any rate a price not less than the
cost of production.” And he is also
ready to press for Commonwealth guar-
antee of cost-of-production up to 100
million bushels of wheat exported—
irrespective, of course, of how high Mr.
Cahill and his union supporters push the
cost-of-production through compulsory
unionism, loaf, inefficient transport and
transport strikes.
The matter is being discussed at Can-
berra by the Commonwealth and States
as this is written, Mr. Cahill’s
viewpoint has been fortified by
the results of a survey made by Mr.
Graham, his Minister for Agriculture,
which has led his Cabinet to agree that
“no action should be taken which would
produce a reduction in the N. S. Wales
wheat-crop area.” Let wheat-values in
the world go down to dust, let the sur-
pluses pile up to an extent that it over-
flows into the ocean, such a scheme as
Mr. Cahill proposes will, it seems, “give
the wheatgrower stability and security,
compensate him for the contribution he
has made to the Australian economy, and
provide an assurance of adequate sup-
plies of wheat, both in this State and
throughout Australia,”
If Mr. Cahill and others are right and
it is the duty of the Commonwealth and
the taxpayers to keep valuable Australian
land growing something the country and
the world doesn’t want when it might be
turning out other products and particu-
larly wool and mutton, then it seems a
pity that they do not apply their energy
to a wider field. There are lots of vege-
tables in surplus production in Australia.
Without doubt the Australian wheat-
grower is entitled to assistance at a time
like the present: he has supplied the Aus-
tralian consumer with wheat at below
world-parity since early in the war
years. But a good deal of wheat has
been grown as a sideline to wool, and
that practice might be eased-off without
harm to anyone. The man who grows
only wheat for a living must be kept in
production, and at present it will be
easier to keep him going if casual, specu-
lative wheatgrowing is cut down. Any-
way, the grower should realise that, what-
ever his situation, Mr. Cahill will dump
him as soon as he has got his vote.
A Libel on America
A disciple of Dr. Evatt, deploring the
Master’s defeat at the May election,
protested that “leadership is essential if
Australia is to develop as rapidly as did
the United States in the nineteenth cen-
tury,” implying, of course, that the
Master’s policy and aims were fundamen-
tally American. Nothing could be farther
from the truth.
In the political history of the 48 States
odd fish have swum to the surface here
and there, but none so odd as to promise
all claimant sexagenarians (and, of course,
septuagenarians) the equivalent of £4 a
week for the rest of their days, whatever
their income, together with lower taxes.
If any such “leader” arose in the U.S.A.
he would be reminded that the Welfare
State, as the Master conceives it,
or as he “improved” on it in the fond
expectation of that “landslide to ‘Labor’, ’
is foreign to the American idea of govern-
ment as cherished from the very begin-
nings of the Republic. He would be
sternly advised to read the Declaration
of Independence again and learn anew
that the “inalienable rights” to which the
Founding Fathers pinned their faith
were “life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.” Not felicity for all and sun-
dry, conferred in the form of “free” gifts,
but the pursuit of happiness and the
liberty to seek it without unnecessary
interference.
As to that, the Americans hold, ana
have held all along, that to prevent citi-
zens providing public-transport services
at their own risk, subject to Government
regulation—very severe in the case of the
Inter-State Commerce Commission —is
unnecessary interference. One conse-
quence is that the country possesses the
most efficient transport-systems in the
world, and they nearly all pay regular
dividends. When they don’t, or when
they have to go out of business, the
shareholders bear the losses, not the tax-
payers. In Australia, of course. Dr.
Evatt’s party calling the tune, we have a
virtual Government monopoly of railways,
tramways and bus “services,” with appall-
ing results all round except to the great
privileged armies of union bosses. Social-
ist or Communist, and State “servants.”
Perhaps the worst feature of these con-
cerns is not their chronic insolvency nor
even the raw deal given to the travelling
public, rawest of all in Dr. Evatt’s State,
but the persistent weakening of legitimate
authority which is part of the ugly picture,
and which seems to be having its influence
on the criminal classes.
The rapid development of the U.S.A.
in the nineteenth century, and that of
imperial Britain as well, were financed in
the main by national savings. To secure
an uninterrupted flow of national savings,
the rulers of both countries interfered
drastically with a “right” conceded by Dr.
Evatt’s party, the right of the citizen to
waste his substance in gambling.
For years there has been an unholy
(i Continued on next page )


competition in “Labor” Government lot-
teries, a competition which threatens to
become frantic now that the Victorian
“Labor” Government has decided to push
Tasmania out of the unsavory business
and Tasmania to retaliate by trying to
sell lottery tickets on the mainland.
Though there has been a great increase
of gambling in Britain, mainly in the
form of “football pools,” a fact which
has driven the “Economist” to record
mournfully that half a million Britons
are employed in the gambling “industry”
(incidentally, “the miracle of recovery”
attributed to Western Germany has had
no parallel in the Old Country, more’s the
pity), the 128-year-old British ban on
lotteries, made watertight by the Betting
and Lotteries Act 1934, remains. And
there have been no lotteries in the U.S.A.
since 1890, when the last of the litter was
strangled in Louisiana. There are no
lotteries in Alaska, Hawaii or Porto Rico,
or in Canada. Lotteries are run or sanc-
tioned by the Government only in Spain,
Italy, France, Eire and “Labor” Australia.
Nor can Dr. Evatt’s disciple instance
American examples for the vogue of bet-
ting, which, fed as it is by the “Labor”
Government to its enemies of the daily
Press, is more rampant in Sydney than
anywhere else in the world. “Except in
four States” (Kentucky, Maryland, Illinois
and Nevada), “where some form of
wagering on horseracing has been legal-
ised, all gaming and wagering is illegal
in the United States.” Thus the Encyclo-
pcedia Britannica, and if the disciple
wants additional evidence he can find it
in Chambers’. Not only bookmakers
and their clerks but “horserace tracks”
are banned “in the majority of the States,”
and “betting contracts are void at law.”
What is more, an editor publishing
“charts,” as the four Sydney dailies do,
would stand a first-class chance of doing
a “stretch” in a State prison. “Some
States” even “make it a penal offence to
lay a bet on an election result,” a
pastime to which the “Labor News”
referred to so gleefully and with such
wealth of detail when it was sure the
Master would win,
A Welfare State given over to gambling
would be something new in history. Cer-
tainly it could claim no prototype or
parallel in the United States.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Twenty-first Federal Parliament
will open on Wednesday, August 4.
Party meetings will be held on Monday
and Tuesday.
• •
Early betting in Canberra on the pro-
posals of the joint Parliamentary com-
mittee on the Constitution is that a refer-
endum will be advocated to permit Sena-
tors due to retire in 1956 to sit for an
additional year. There are no supporters
for the alternative of a dissolution of
the Reps in 1956.
• •
While leaders of all countries, including
Communist China, were expressing thank-
fulness that for the first time in over 20
years there was no war anywhere in the
world, Chinese Communist fighter-planes
were shooting down an unarmed British
passenger-plane near the island of
Hainan.
• ®
Shepparton, since 1945 the stronghold
of Country-party leader McDonald in
the Victorian Assembly, disappears under
the two-for-one plan, so the former
Premier is in search of a seat, having
denied rumors of his intended retirement
from politics. He is seeking preselection
for Murray Valley, which includes part
of his former territory. It also includes
part of the old Murray Valley electorate
at present represented by G. C. Moss,
who was McDonald’s Minister for Agri-
culture in the Spring-street Farmers’
Cabinet. Moss is also seeking preselec-
tion. Two-for-one in this case seems to
mean 2 up and 1 to go.
0 0
Fairy-story translated from the Rus-
sian: Once upon a time at an espionage
inquiry in Moscow a witness refused to
answer questions. He was permitted to
leave the court.
o o
C, G. Jesson, M.L.A., who is presi-
dent of the Australia Day Celebration
Committee in Brisbane, says that most
New Australians appreciate the Australia
Day holiday but have no idea what it
stands for. His organisation has formed
a sub-committee to tell them. While it’s
on the job it might start finding out
what percentage of Old Australians are
similarly ignorant.
0 0
Under their present award wharfies
get ss. for meal allowance; they are
claiming 12s. 6d. The jump from three
schooners and a middy to nine schooners
seems a trifle sudden.
e 0
About the best example to date of
taxation-run-mad is Queensland’s system
of imposts on trucks, A farmer pays
the Main Roads Board £66 to register
a five-ton diesel which he uses to deliver
his product. If he makes delivery over
15 miles he must pay 3d, per ton per
mile extra, or, on a light load, a rate
according to the capacity of the truck.
And this in a State which depends for
its future on expansion of production,
0 e
The “onion war,” which threatened to
turn Victorian highways into something
like a page out of the hijacking days of
the U.S. prohibition era, has died down
through lack of ammunition. Now, it
appears, Sydney is to import onions from
Egypt. It’s to be hoped they’re still
edible when they arrive; onions have
never been a cargo that stood up well
to long sea-voyages.
0 O
Speaking at the Melbourne Junior
Chamber of Commerce, R. F. San-
derson, said that public holidays cost
Australia £75,000,000 a year and added
more to production-costs than those of
any other country in the world. He said
excessive holidays were “pricing Aus-
tralia out of overseas markets.” Pooh!
Who wants overseas markets?
e 0
So-called “direct action” is having the
usual effect of causing inaction on the
Sydney waterfront. With the port full
of shipping the wharfies staged a one-
day strike over a trivial argument about
a water-bucket. Then the tally-clerks
found a grievance and there was no pen-
cilling done for three days, with the
result that by the weekend unchecked
cargo was piling up in the sheds. The
dispute was to be heard by Conciliation
Commissioner Finlay on Monday.
• •
The Boilermakers’ Union is also taking
a hand in the game of baiting the ship-
owners. Its contribution is an ultimatum
that its members will refuse to do repairs
on any coastal ship built outside Aus-
tralia.
• •
In Victoria the A.W.U. has cancelled
its affiliation with the State “Labor”
party. Reasons given: dissatisfaction
with the Government’s opposition to a
s claim for increased wages for construc-
tion workers; concern at the activities
of industrial-groups.
• •
New Zealand’s Budget provides for
tax-cuts of £ll million this year; lower
THE GHOST TRAIN
(The train which used to run to its timetable, pay its way, stay on the rails and
generally behave itself. Since the advent of Cahill, Winsor and union-control of
transport it has become a ghost of what it was.)
income-tax and sales-tax are the main
concessions. In presenting the Budget
Prime Minister Holland said the main
objectives of the cuts were;
1. To reduce the cost of living.
2. To provide incentives to more produc-
tion and hence greater prosperity.
3. To leave more income in the hands
of those who earn it.
One remark by Mr, Holland should
be noted by Socialists on both sides of
the Tasman: “It is no part of this Gov-
ernment’s philosophy that the Govern-
ment can spend a taxpayer’s income
better than the taxpayer himself.”
• <
Things are tough, mighty tough in the
West for politicians. While eastern-
States M.P.s have been hibernating in
their electorates or chasing the sun in
Queensland or the Northern Territory
Westralian legislators have been talking
themselves hoarse since June 17, when
their third session for 1954 began.
• •
Referring to allegations that numerous
properties sold under Supreme Court
orders had gone for a song and to sug-
gestions that the law governing these
sales needed overhauling, N. S. Wales
Attorney-General Sheahan said, “The
public cannot expect public departments
to be watching their interest; they have
to watch their own.” To which Sydney
“Sun” neatly replied, “What else do
public departments exist for except for
the public’s interest?”
• •
Calwell suggests the Northern Terri-
tory should be divided into three sec-
tions, each with representation in Can-
berra. If he is using the “Labor” party
as the prototype he is being too modest.
That is in about a million pieces, and
after the next Federal session even Pro-
fessor Messel and his team of nuclear
physicists won’t be able to put it together
again.
• •
Cain is in the bad books of Melbourne
Trades Hall for allegedly ignoring trade-
union requests on industrial matters and
failing to consult the trade-union move-
ment. Those are two things Cain’s oppo-
site-number in Sydney can’t be accused
of.
• • .
The campaign against “criminals”
who keep their shops open after the
statutory hours has spread to Melbourne ;
suburban butchers are the principal tar-
get. It all seems to be part of the “Labor”
theory that shops—like all other branches
of industry—are run to provide jobs, not
to give service to the public.
In a similar drive in Brisbane a woman
was fined £5 for having taken delivery
of bread at her shop on Sunday. In
evidence an inspector told how he had
seen the warm bread taken from a truck
into the shop and that the woman had
told him she didn’t know she was break-
ing an award by receiving it on Sunday.
Rules like this are allegedly designed to
protect the worker, but very few workers
who have to eat Friday’s bread in Mon-
day’s cut-lunch would regard the shop-
keeper’s action as a crime.
• •
From an article in Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” by “Jack Schmella, Queensland
Secretary of the Australian Labor Party”:
Further, we repudiate as completely false
the claim that any decision which has been
reached by the Federal Executive of the
A.L.P. in any way constitutes an attack on
our leader, Dr. Evatt.
Mr. Schmella apparently has only asked
the manufacturers before writing the
word “we.” Messrs. Calwell and Keon
would almost certainly disagree emphati-
cally.
• •
In the face of all the statistics about
beer-drinking, the anti-booze faction
must glean some consolation from figures
of tea-consumption. In the year to
March 30 last Australia imported almost
64,650j0001b. of tea, paying to the sup-
pliers more than £l4 million. Ceylon
held pride of place, with a total of more
than 56,500,0001 b. In two quarters of
the year India came into the picture, but
the total from that source was only
6,527,0001 b. Indonesia supplied about
2 million lb., and the balance was in small
lots which included (last quarter)
15,3451 b. from Formosa, 41b. (value £2)
from Japan and 61b. (value £9) from
Holland.
• •
The party of New Australians which
set out from Sydney for the Simpson
Desert at the beginning of May in an
attempt to out-Leichhardt Leichhardt is
reported to be stranded four miles out
of Bourke. Didn’t even reach the black
stump!
• •
First prosecutions under the Cahill
compulsory-unionism Act were launched
in Newcastle last week. On the informa-
tion of the Shop Assistants’ Union, a
businessman was charged with “having
knowingly employed a non-unionist” and
a woman wiith having failed to join an
industrial union. Both cases have been
adjourned pending the result of an appli-
cation to the High Court challenging the
validity of ihe Act.
• •
A French mine-owner from New Cale-
donia told reporters in Darwin that there
were now 4000 Indo-Chinese Commun-
ists in New Caledonia and 5000 in the
New Hebrides.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Taxpayers and others
who have filled-in innumerable Govern-
ment forms should be interested in the
Australia-wide seminar in Canberra on
archives- and records-management, con-
vened “to secure accelerated and uniform
action in the disposal of useless records
of Federal and State Governments, and
preservation of what is valuable for use
by future administrators, for research of
all kinds, and to protect the rights of
citizens.” There’s food for thought in
the fact that the National Library has
taken over more than 50,000 cubic-feet
of documents from the 52 Federal depart-
ments which have been created or
recreated since 1901.
• •
The number of names on the New
South Wales electoral rolls now exceeds
two million —actual figure at the end of
June was 2,003,578.
• •
Reported from London that a team
of “vigilantes” from the Sunday School
Union is to spend a fortnight watching
every television programme to make a
survey of the number of times strong
drink is imbibed in the course of the
shows. Working in relays, they don’t
intend to miss a sip. The idea behind
the plan is that TV, by its example,
is encouraging the drinking habit.
• •
A Victorian dairyman has been urging
the compulsory coloring of margarine
black, so that no one will be able to pass
it off as butter. An alternative solution
might be to produce butter that no one
can mistake for margarine.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ALSATIANS were used by German
guards wherever they had prisoners,
of course: but for some months, adja-
cent to our Silesian Stalag, something
special in the way of dog-training was
going on. Workers brought in news of
“This one's punk, Mum —it hasn't got a corkscrew.”
dogs systematically baited with Tommy
battledress, of rows of kennels, a be-
medalled o.c. dogs. All very hush-hush.
But one dog in particular, “Teuffel,” seen
occasionally being exercised, acquired an
early evil fame. One day a party of
p.-0.-w., moving out of camp with suit-
able escort, met the red-eyed monster
face to face. Quite suddenly, coming
round the bend of a wooded path, there
he was without a lead. A little shiver
ran down the line of men as the big
animal trotted forward. Past one, past
two, past three, almost brushing them,
with that concentrated expression an
Alsatian often has; it had been raining,
and the smell of the brute was heavy in
the damp air; past four p.-0.-w,, five —
then, with a swift rush, pouncing on the
German officer in charge of the party
and bearing him to the ground.—“ Fons.”
❖ ❖
“Horseshoe Bar”: I learned from the
A.B.C. that cars in the Redex trial were
speeding across the bottom of Australia.
Westralia was probably tickled about it.
*l*
“Macquarie”: Saturday night on Syd-
ney’s Wynyard ramp. A few yards from
the George-street entrance a pathetic little
parcel lies, its life’s blood expended. The
hundreds of hurrying feet step around
the broken bottle and carefully avoid the
wet ribbon thai stretches down the ramp
in a long, remarkably straight course. At
no more than three long paces from the
art-union kiosk it ceases, exhausted. A
fair estimate of the distance travelled by
the contents of that solitary beer-bottle is
75yds. And yet there are still blokes
who’ll tell you one bottle of beer won’t
go far among a crowd.
♦> ♦>
“Melbn”: I can’t understand why,
since the Melbourne Tramways Board
seems to want to progress backwards, it
hasn’t put the cable-trams back into
Bourke-street instead of the electrics.
They were not half as noisy and much
more interesting. Sheaves of stories have
been told about the little old cables.
Like the one about the young man —a
leading runner —whose girl had accepted
him and who lived in the same street.
When she left home in the cable-tram
for the city every morning he would run
round the tram till it reached the corner
before he got in.
**♦
“Emjai”: My best-remembered of
Melbourne’s old cable-trams: they
would stop accommodatingly to pick up
or set down, merely slow down, or keep
going at full bat according to the
“grippie’s” assessment of the agility of
the passenger. The bucks hopped on and
off with a practised swing which counter-
acted momentum; but the swell-looking
dasher carrying a violin-case and all set
for the afternoon promenade of The
Block was a shade portly and slow in the
reflexes, and he did strike bad luck. The
, M.C.C. lads with scoops and brooms
who followed the horses and deposited
their garnerings in the kerbside pits had
not been quick enough in collecting one
hefty heap beside the tram-track when
he swung off. His foot landed dead
centre, shot from under, and he sat, hard,
smack on to the pile; and with an ex-
plosion to be heard in the next block,
the swinging violin-case and its cargo of
precious bottles disintegrated on the
road. For a moment he sat, then lifted
his head and howled like a dog at the
full of the moon.
❖ *>
“Ceg”: Those pub sites in Melbourne
which have changed over to banking pur-
poses (B. 14/7/’54) could have included
the old Palace Hotel in Bourke-street,
now replaced by the Commonwealth
Bank. The Palace was a labyrinth of
small bars; included in the building was
the Gaiety Theatre on the street-level
and the Bijou Theatre upstairs. Trial
nights at the Gaiety were something to
be remembered; it was quite in order to
“That hornet's been looking round for hours for somewhere
to build its nest!"
throw things at the stage, and I do not
remember bottles being barred by the
rules. Some of the triers, despite the
bombardment, just would not get off
stage; they were dragged off from the
wings with an implement like a boat-
hook. Good variety-shows were put on
at the Bijou ; it was flesh-and-blood stuff
all right, and some of the flesh was very
nice, too. Oh, well, other days, other
ways, but a bill of exchange is small
recompense for Stiffy and Mo.
&
“P.0.M.C.”: It remains one of the
deeper mysteries of civilisation that the
sleeves of pyjamas don’t button at the
wrists the same as shirts. Or don’t other
people’s pyjama-sleeves gather in the
region of their arm-pits when reading in
bed these frosty nights like mine do?
❖
“Archaen”: A mine-detector may
locate the metal plate on a hidden founda-
tion-stone (B. 7/7/’54), but the device
has brought disappointment, to others. In
the late war I met an American engineer
who lived for the day when he could
take a detector to an island in the Carib-
bean to locate the pirate treasure he was
sure was hidden there. He did, and
wrote to tell me the result; weeks tramp-
ing over that sandy cay, holes dug be-
yond number, plenty of “strikes” —and
enough old cannonballs, chain cable,
axe-heads and bits of copper sheathing
to stock a junk-yard. But “Not one
doubloon in the whole damn’ collection.”
Bill Cassidy, the American meteorite
expert now in Australia, had visions of
using a detector to locate buried meteor-
ite fragments. Each time digging revealed
a hard pan of ordinary ironstone gravel,
which goes to show that no device will
locate something which isn’t there.
*X* ❖
“Horncastle”: The coach-driver on the
tourist-run I’ve just taken from Rotorua
to Wellington via Wairakei, with its famed
steam-geyser, is one of the most know-
ledgeable and accommodating coves in
the game. Arriving at Wairakei, he flung
open the bus-door with a histrionic
flourish and declaimed to the company:
“Wairakei geyser to the right, lavatories
to the left.”
+♦♦ * ***
“Pawang”: That Durham (Eng.) head-
master who caned his entire school when
nobody would confess to an obscene
drawing on the school wall; I thought
this quaint idea of extracting the truth
from the kids had gone out with my
schooldays. For a similar offence my
clerical headmaster in Adelaide pun-
ished the whole school—by bringing his
powerful hands down with all his force
simultaneously on each pair of eardrums.
If any of my fellow-old-boys is deaf
today he might thank the Rev. X for it.
Some years later I was asked to join the
old boys’ association established to per-
petuate the memory of the old school. I
replied that, as far as I was concerned,
no special effort was required to conjure
up the memory of the old school —I
could feel it in my eardrums.
♦> ❖ ❖
“C. Towers”: On the pronunciation
of “Featherstonehaugh” (B. 7/ 7 / ’54)
“K.R.” seems unaware that in its native
Cumberland the mame is cut down to
simply “Festinog.” I have this on the
authority of one of the tribe in his auto-
biography—the story of a wild young
blade in the gay days of Riverina squat-
terdom. Among other things he once
rode a buggy-race when, headed by his
rival at the last gateway, he sent his
buggy and pair at the timber fence. The
nags rose to it brilliantly, but only half
the buggy did likewise, and friend F.
came a bad second but still plying the
whip from a precarious perch amid the
ruins. A bloke like that just must be
right!
*t* *X* ❖
“Craiser”: Oddity of this atomic-bomb
age. A house in a lonely spot outside
Melbourne with a protective wall on the
veranda opposite the front-door. The
wall is made of threeply.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Smouge”: I put him down as a worn-
out wolf —tall and well-dressed, hatless
and slightly balding, small moustache and
slightly sardonic smile. He walked slowly
up the stairs, looked around the platform
and made his choice —no glamor gal, but
a mature female of refined appearance.
Tapping a cigarette against the case he
requested a light, and, though somewhat
startled, she obliged. The case was
proffered, the offer accepted, and when I
left the train the friendship was well on
the way. I cannot see that he could
possibly have suffered a knock-back like
we had to chance in my day, unless he
happened to strike a real anti-smoker
type. Life is simpler now.
* ♦> ❖
“Sister Ellell”: In the late stoush I
had in my ward one of the top-notchers
of the Army Catering Corps; along with
other treatment he had a course of daily
injections. Came the morning I heard
from behind the screen a muttered
“Hell’s bells!” which told me the needle
had gone home; and, in reply. Sister’s
dulcet tones, “Now then, sir, how about
those blue boiler-peas?”
* ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: A quaint example of
superstition in reverse is manifest at the
new Tatt.’s in Melbourne. The biggest
crowd of potential winners is to be seen
at ticket-selling box numbered 13.
* ❖ *>
“Balwyn”: The drone of litigation in
Melbourne Law Courts was accompanied
the other day by the sweet cadences of a
Chopin prelude. During a case in which
plaintiff sought refund of instalment pay-
ments on a piano because of its alleged
faults, the judge, after hearing expert
evidence, ordered the instrument into
court. A piano-salesman, asked to play,
launched into a sensitive rendering of
the master. ’Sonah, after giving judgment
for the music-warehouse, expressed
appreciation of the demonstrator’s talent
and modestly admitted that he himself
was a humble tickler of the ivories.
A MUSIC LESSON
“A bearded gentleman asking whether he
played a three-quarter or full clarinet, Mr.
Artie Shaw replied, ‘I don’t know. I’ve spent
my life playing the clarinet, but I’ve never been
able to find out what those labels mean.’ ”
When a man earns his scran playing jazz,
like Artie Shaw,
To cope with musical dope don’t help
him draw: —
“Is the sorta clarinet he bought a full
or a three-quarter?”
Let a sound referee like me lay down the
law : —
In the end, my friend, if it’s Union or
League you play.
League is the name of the unionists’ game
today;
Jam-sessions are like League; Union’s
classical, like “gigue”;
But they’re classed and they’re massed in
much the same old way.
So a fullback, Jack —I mean, Artie —in
terms of jazz.
Is a full clarinet, deep-set—you might
say “bass,”
While the three-quarter line sets a
wail up, and a whine
To the calf of a half to stop going broody
and pass.
The saxophone-crook is the hook in the
musical scrum’s
Shin-clicking clappers and skin-kicking
pedal-drums
And its heady cymbal-clashes and the
bashes and the smashes
Of its free-fight, jam-night, pan-de-mon-
i-ums.
Yes, I’ve often thought, as a tortured
clarinet squealed,
“What a crime ! Ain’t it time some lover-
of-fairplay appealed ?”
And I think there ought to be a proper
music-referee
To trot the whole lot of those players
right off of that field.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A NEW AUSTRALIAN, he hadn’t
a clue about the language. But
he had to eat, so he learned by rote the
words “Pie and tea.” By simply walking
into a restaurant —any Australian eating-
place—and saying the magic phrase “Pie
und tea” he was supplied with a veritable
pie and a pot of indubitable tea. Thus
nourishment. But as the weeks passed
Karl craved a change of diet. Pie und
tea was goot, but enough is too much.
He would consult his oracle; oracle spake
the new password from hunger:
“Toasted ham sandwich and coffee.”
Karl struggled with it, learned it, became
word-perfect; hurried to his favorite
cafe, his midriff rumbling in anticipation.
“What will it be?” asked the waitress.
“Toasted ham sandwich and coffee,”
said Karl bravely. “White bread or rye?”
said the waitress. “Pie und tea,” said
Karl, gazing into a hopeless dawn. “Pie
und tea, yet.”—“Gyro Joe.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
Don’t often find any Bob
Hopes among staff-clerks in a Govera-
“I'll tell you when to stop, Henry—we mustn't crush its little roots."
ment office, but the other day an applica-
tion for sick-leave brought a glimmer of
; sunshine. Reason? “Sick due to over-
| work.” Meant it, too.
hJ+
“Bo”: Disclosures that N.S.W, Govern-
ment Railways employees dismissed for
theft have been re-employed will surprise
nobody who has worked in the depart-
ment, where it has long been generally
accepted that only something like a mur-
der conviction would bar reinstatement.
As for the fear of getting the “bullet”
merely for being engaged on “foreigners”
—well, that would raise a laugh. It was
a prerogative, and it needed only a little
more union arrogance for a demand that
its enjoyment should be incorporated in
the award. If you were lucky enough to
work in branches which were well stocked
with suitable material, your scope was
greatly widened. One cove years ago
made himself a complete maple bed-
room-suite, and somehow he solved his
only real difficulty—how to get it out.
Another fellow who made a pram found
the answer by having his wife visit him
at work, carrying the baby. Oh, yes,
the watchman on the gate was most
meticulous; he asked the mother to lift
the infant so he could be assured no
material was concealed. Then, satisfied,
he waved her through.
♦♦♦
“Gulliver”; Lumbered whilst carousing
in an abandoned and malodorous dog-
kennel, and feasting on scraps of meat
from a salvaged bone washed down with
plonk, a pair of tattered bans vivants
recently faced a Sydney Beak on the
usual chargp of vagrancy. They were at
pains, however, to make clear that the
occasion was not just a casual drifting-
together of two fragments of society’s
jetsam. The gent, who kept his state in
the kennel was receiving a visitor, whose
bachelor establishment lay beneath a
near-by culvert, and who had dropped in
for a snack. No evidence was called
regarding the color of the bombo but,
damme, sir! it must have been red!
What else would a gentleman serve with
the joint?
* ❖ ♦>
“Bon Rouge”: In latest instructions to
Russians on table-habits, there lurks a
suspicion of dislike for the national color
that could bring down the official axe on
the author’s head.' He warns against
the wearing of hats at table; a hat in-
creases the flow of blood to the head and
makes the face red and shiny. Surely
any patriotic Russian would seize on this
opportunity to make himself red in coun-
tenance as well as in conscience; the
biggest dinner should go to the reddest
face. Or do the Russkis, pondering on
proceedings in a Melbourne court, think
their mugs are red enough?
“Hist.”: On August 1, 1854, Westralia
issued its first postage-stamp, engraved
and printed for the colony by a London
firm; design a swan, color black, value
one penny. On August 2 next the Com-
monwealth will issue a commemorative
(and modified) copy of this stamp, also
in black, face-value 3yd. Many of the
earliest stamps were black (Great
Britain’s one penny of 1840, the daddy
of them all), but postal authorities felt
that a black postmark on a black stamp
was too inconspicuous and an invitation
to the unscrupulous to re-use them.
Britain changed the one penny to red in
1841, and other countries followed suit
“Hullo, Reggie, grab yourself a seat —Dick's just leaving."
with color-changes. The Commonwealth
has already issued two black stamps,
apart from the current Is. Id. value: the
Is. Centenary of Victoria commemora-
tive in 1934, and the Is. Anniversary of
Anzac in 1935 —both now valued at
several times their face-value. Westralian
philatelists are celebrating their stamp-
centenary with an exhibition at which the
star turn will be the “Bromfield” collec-
tion of that State’s stamps, the world’s
finest, and including a specimen of the
famous blue 4d, stamp with the swan
inverted —worth some £4OO.
* ❖ *
“Melbn”: Reported from London that
a woman fancied she could sing like
Melba; her attempts to do so cost her a
flat. Neighbors told the judge they couldn’t
stand her “frightful screeching”; he gave
her three months’ notice. You have to
be a Melba to have an effect like Melba.
When the diva was billed to sing in
Bendigo and complained that the town-
hall chimes prevented her from sleeping
the authorities promptly stopped them.
They haven’t been started since, as far
as I know.
* ❖ *
“Mullum”: It’s either a glut or a
famine; occasionally you strike both at
once. Redex-trial driver C. V. Cresswell
was driving through dust, sand and heat
between Broome and Meekatharra while,
back home, the garage he runs in Lismore
was being slowly submerged by flood-
waters.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Smouge”: Taciturn Mr. and Mrs.
Hobart usually shrug off the administra-
tions of the City Fathers with a wan
smile and go on living as quietly as
usual, but there’s a murmur rumbling
around the Speck’s capital that could
swell into an explosion. The
newly elected Lud Mayor is threaten-
ing to overcome the parking pro-
blems by jacking-up two parks and put-
ting super-dooper car-cupboards beneath
them. One of the beauty-spots threatened
was once the burial ground of the infant
colony; the other is the site of the first
Government House. The ex-stoker
Number One Cit. has never run from a
fight yet and is willing to mix it with the
best of ’em. Melburnites are advised
to show no alarm if a few mushroom-
shaped clouds appear southwards ere
long.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spinifex”: Like “Soc.” (B. 14/7/’54)
I find the “horse’s-tail” hair-do ill-chosen,
though the name apt. Viewed from the
side it inevitably recalls those moments
when fastidious folk look elsewhere;
blockboys frown; and good gardeners
sigh regretfully.
“Phil Anthus”: Allow me to confide
that I got a sound chuckle out of Oswald
Pryor’s recent sketch showing a Cousin
Jack hawker crying “Tur-r-nips” at a
penny each and then informing a pursuing
housewife that he was too busy to stop.
It reminded me of a Brisbane suburban
horse-and-cart milk-oh who used to pro-
claim continuously, “I come round
ever-r-y day.” The old boy actually
yodelled that announcement, and as he
did so he turned his bewhiskered face to
the skies, the result being that he neither
heard nor saw the women who emerged
from houses and frantically waved billies
at him. Not once did I ever see that
veteran make a sale. Like certain poli-
ticians and radio-announcers, he had
fallen heels over head in love with his own
voice, and he stymied himself with the
force and continuity of his “melody.”
Incidentally, I for one was refreshed to
meet Oswald Pryor again in the pages
of The Bulletin. His contributions date
’way back to the days of my youth, and
never in any instance along the years
have I known him to produce a Cousin
Jack sketch that wasn’t amusing, good-
natured and true to life.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Sister EUell”: Corsets in the drawer
(B. 14/7/’54)? She was lucky. One of
our lasses was an advocate of the two-
of-everything plan, and practised it
rigidly, except for her step-ins. These
she lost from the Overland; imagine the
panic—no hitching-post for her stock-
ings. She complained bitterly to the Lost
Property Manager, and was not amused
at his reply that the whalebone and elas-
tic could be astride any tree or bush
from Serviceton to Sunshine. Said the
deprived one, “Surely then, someone will
find them, as I did write my name and
number inside one of the bones.”
“Chink”: Remember how cricket
scribes ran riot 18 months ago—how
they found Australia’s team looking “like
the wreck of the Hesperus,” how one
batsman’s fours “flowed like chips from
a jackpotted machine”? It was inevitable
that Sydney’s catchpenny chroniclers of
football (earbiting variety) should let
down the remnants of their hair when
reporting the brawl between England and
N. S. Wales and the “Test” clashes be-
tween England and Australia. First-prize
in this respect goes to a Sunday-paper
writer. This expert saw England, in the
Brisbane encounter, “shake the very life
out of Australia like an enraged blood-
hound tearing to pieces an innocent
rabbit.” So “paralysing” was the victory
then—it was, in fact, 38 to 21 —that the
spectators were “stunned.” Inevitably,
onlookers were “stunned” again—as well
as being “shocked almost to the point of
being dumbfounded” —by the sight of
the Sydney brawl; for that, of course,
provided “an unbridled frenzy of riot-
ing.” In brief, those footballers behaved
“like a mad mob of Chicago gangsters
battling it out with gun and knife to the
death.” Had the brawling been extended
into the last “Test,” who knows to what
supreme heights our lyricist would have
risen? Alas, the only choice morsels we
got were that the crowd was “intoxicated”
(not “stunned”) and that Australia’s win
was “a magnificent finale to a stirring
struggle that pulsated with grim tense-
ness.” Now, where is that ill-informed
fellow who once declared football to be
“only a game”?
NOBLE REPRESSION
“It is always the comedian who is publicised
when he gives a performance, despite some deep
personal loss or upset, in the laugh-clown-laugh
tradition. Yet other actors who in similar
circumstances honor their professional obliga-
tions may do so unsung.” —Theatrical producer.
The “comic” may suffer a boil
Which compels him to walk like a
crab;
Some parts of his innards might coil,
And the consequent pains give a jab.
Withal at his usual toil
He’s expected to make a good stab —
More than that; they’re aware
Such occasion demands
’Gainst himself he’ll be scoring.
But the management’s fair.
There’ll be no reprimands
If he sets ’em all roaring.
He might have “done” lots of the best
On some indolent moke that he’d
backed ;
His furniture’s been repossessed
When chips for instalments he lacked;
With some relative-pest as his guest
Uninvited he may have been racked ;
Or his car he has wrecked
(And insurance run out) —
Well, his temper’s not sunny.
Now, that smacks of neglect.
For it’s easy, no doubt,
For him still to be funny.
Yet the heavy tragedian must
Have his problems no less. Now
perpend.
Supposing, for instance, he’d just
Heard his wife had “shot through” with
his friend.
With emotion he’s ready to bust.
Still, he answers his cue. Oh, commend
Such an actor, for he,
In such tidings immersed,
Remains highly dramatic.
When he’d probably be
Suppressing a burst
Of rejoicing ecstatic!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
AS USUAL
“After New York’s first fashion-show of pipes
for women most of the girls lit a cigarette.”
—", S. M. Herald.”
With slinky grace of pussy-cats
They glided to and fro, and cripes!
What time they modelled gowns and hats.
They puffed absurd, bejewelled pipes
Supposed to be disease-resistant.
Then, true to sex, were inconsistent!
P.O.M.C.


PERSOMAL ITEMS
Edward Cunningham, doyen of Mel-
bourne journalists, a man who talked
with Peter Lalor on the Eureka business,
passed 95 the other day. Victoria was
not 40 years old when he crossed from
Tasmania and joined the “Bendigo
Advertiser” as a copy-boy. He became a
Melbourne “Argus” Parliamentary re-
porter in 1881, when Deakin was launch-
ing out, and followed in the train of the
silver-tongued orator when he visited
Mexico and the United States. Cunning-
ham sat in the “Argus” editorial chair
from 1906 to 1926, and remained its
adviser on editorial policy till he retired
in 1938. He had risen Sir Edward two
years earlier.
• •
The business-wise phiz appended
hereto is the property of G. H. Nelson,
who in his formative years had a yen
for local-government. He indulged it
first with the South Brisbane City Coun-
cil, secretary to the Town Clerk, At 21
he was the municipality’s accountant;
at 23 commenced his seven years as its
treasurer. When 20 municipalities were
cemented into the Greater Brisbane
scheme Nelson became deputy-treasurer;
designed the financial accounts-structure
for the Greater City; took on managing
the department of water-supply and
sewerage, and in 1940 was appointed City
treasurer. After 30 years in local govern-
ment he decided on a change to other
Brisbane business, and is now manager
BRISBANE BANKER
of the Permanent Banking Company.
One-time president of the Common-
wealth Institute of Accountants, he is a
stanchion of Rotary and looks after the
coffers of the Methodist Church,
a a
Bowled into The Bulletin from Bris-
bane, Ray Lindwall, down on business
for the latter-day Cobb and Co., the
Queensland truck-transport firm, whose
run covers pretty well all of south-western
Queensland ; their liaison-officer is shortly
to start running himself, a couple of
miles round a cricket-oval every night,
object the coming clash between one
Hutton and his minions and the local
talent. The bowler reckons he’ll need
all the running practice he can get be-
tween now and October —in a Test-match
he notches, as well as wickets, something
like nine miles in his trundling. His
arrival in Sydney coincided with arrival
from London of his autobiographical
book. Flying Stumps.
• •
“5 G.R.”: A naturally modest Aus-
tralian has left to become Australia’s
High Commissioner in Pakistan —Major-
General W. J- Cawthorn, who won his
commission with the 22nd Battalion,
changed to the Indian Army, excelled at
languages, passed the Staff College
course and finished up in the late war
as Wavell’s intelligence chief. On India’s
partition he became Deputy-Chief-of-Staff
of the Pakistan Army. His only son was
killed in Korea.
• •
Lieutenant-General Henry Wells, who
becomes Chief of the General Staff when
Sir Sidney Rowell reaches the retiring-
age in December, starts a new era in
the command. He is the first C.G.S.
to belong entirely to the post-World-War-
I era. Born in 1898, he is a Victorian
from Kyneton who began his military
training in England in 1920, was attached
to the 6th Cavalry Brigade in 1926, and
was at Duntroon for the three years
which ended the depression. He returned
to Duntroon in 1939 after doing his staff
course at Camberley, as Instructor in
Tactics, and was seconded to the Seventh
Division, A.1.F., in the following year,
after which he had distinguished service
with the Ninth Division and with H.Q.
First and Second Australian Corps. Wells
went through the campaigns of Greece,
Syria, Libya, New Guinea and Borneo.
His post-war service included a term
at the Imperial Defence College, after
which he was Director of Military Opera-
tions and Plans, Deputy C.G.S., Com-
mandant at Duntroon, G.O.C. Southern
Command and finally C.-in-C. British
Commonwealth Forces in Korea. He is
oije of the less known soldiers to the
public, yet modern and progressive—
essentially an up-to-date planner with a
1954 outlook.
• •
The birthday that caused most stir in
south-western N.S.W. last week was that
of Orlando Perrin of Deniliquin, at 92
Australia’s oldest village blacksmith. He
has been on the job in Deniliquin for 75
years, working much of that time for the
Cobb and Co. coachbuilder James Burch-
field. In the ’eighties Perrin was a
noted cricketer, but limits his strokes in
these days to his old and well-worn anvil.
He is the father of the local M.U.1.0.0.F.
Lodge, which he joined on May 21, 1885.
And he is also Deniliquin’s last human
relic of the days of Ned Kelly—and is
probably the only blacksmith of the last
50 years along the border willing to swear
that he never shod a horse for him.
• •
Taking over the late Sir Arthur Don-
nelly’s chairmanship of the Bank of New
Zealand, Henry Ralph Chalmers,
C. of Wellington. He joined the
bank in 1899, had three years’ leave-of-
absence with the Ist N.Z. Expeditionary
Force, and is president of the Fernland’s
Racing Conference —neddies, that is.
• • (
Group-Captain Arthur Clouston,
D. D.F.C., A.F.C. and Bar, one of
New Zealand’s most skilled flyers, be-
comes air-officer commanding in Singa-
pore. In March, 1938, he made a record
flight from London to N.Z. and back;
the previous year he had established a
record from Croydon (Eng.) to Cape
Town and back. Wide war experience
took in piloting Spitfires and Beaufighter
night-fighters in the Battle of Britain
(D.F.C. for shooting down four enemy
aircraft over Belgium and France); a
shift to Coastal Command, on anti-sub-
marine sorties and testing new detection
devices. Appointed Director of Civil
Aviation in N.Z. after the war, he moved
back to the U.K., in command of the
game chaps who formed the Empire Test
Pilot School at Earn boro ugh. He was
himself a test-pilot.
• •
“Pip Tok”; A much-travelled and
widely-schooled prelate, C. E. B.
Muschamp, Bishop of Kalgoorlie and
assistant-Bishop of Perth, is off to the
U K. via America to recruit clergy for
his diocese. Born in England and
schooled in Hobart, he took his B.A.
degree at the University of Tasmania,
and topped it off with an M.A. at
Oxford. With the Royal N.Z. Air Force
in the Pacific war, he remained in New
Zealand till the Kalgoorlie appointment
about three years ago. While away he
will attend Anglican conferences in
Chicago and Minneapolis, as well as the
conference of the World Council of
Churches. Lectures to clergymen in
’Frisco, Los Angeles, and the eastern
States of the U.S. are also on his pro-
gramme.
• •
A notice —“Sanctuary for Pelicans and
Penguins” —on the Whitehorse-road out-
side Melbourne aroused a lot of interest
last year, one old lady phoning the
Games and Fisheries Department to ask
how it could allow the birds to be cooped
up in such a place. Under the care of
Australian director Maynard, the “sanc-
tuary” has blossomed into the Victorian
depot for the assembly and distribution
of the vast numbers of Penguins, Pelicans
and Puffins entering this country.
Maynard is making July 30 the
occasion for a very special celebration,
Penguin Books having reached their 19th
birthday and their 1000th publication.
This last will be One of Our Submarines,
by Edward Young, D. 5.0., D.S.C., whose
exploits as captain of H.M. submarine
Storm became world-famous. He has
another claim to fame, as far as Penguins
are concerned. In 1935 he was sent to
the London Zoo by the Lane brothers
to sketch a bird which would be suitable
for a trademark. He came back with
the quaint creature that has since figured
on millions of jackets. A reprint of
Mervyn Skipper’s The Meeting Pool,
first published in 1929, is among the most
recent of the 1000.
• •
George Henry Burvill, Westralia’s
Commissioner of Soil Conservation, is
packing up for a trip to the Belgian
Congo, for the fifth international con-
gress on soil-science. After that he’ll
visit the two Rhodesias and South Africa
to get the score on soil-conservation pro-
blems. In the Westralian Agricultural
Department for close on 30 years, he is
well-known for his soil-surveys in the
Kimberleys.
• •
Alexander Killen Macbeth, hailing
originally from Belfast, learnt his
chemical pothooks at Queen’s University
in that city, and before leaving for
Adelaide was acting-Professor of Chemis-
try there. After just on 30 years in
Adelaide University’s Chair of Chemistry,
he’s retiring. A vigorous author (up-
wards of 100 papers in scientific journals,
and Organic Chemistry for Students ), he
worked on synthetic drug-preparation in
War 11. Partial to gardening, fishing,
sailing, in that order.
• •
“Mike”: Like to add my tribute to
“Uramao’s” (B. 14/7 / ’54) on Colin
Cargill and John (“Bluey”) Denvir.
Cargill, in my unit before capture, had
a favorite sport of delousing captured
Italian hand-grenades and other lethal
ammo collected in the first North
African campaign. His philosophy was
“No risk, no fun.” He and Denvir made
their epic get-away in the depths of an
Austrian winter, about 30 below zero,
snow feet-thick on the ground, with what
seemed certain death waiting on their
spending even one night outdoors. We
who were left in Marburg Stalag read of
Denvir’s reported death on the prison
notice-board. At the time, we reckoned
that the Germans had done the shooting,
then blamed it on the Italians. Those
of us who knew the circumstances agree
that, of all the escape attempts, Denvir’s
was well up with, if not past, the lot of
them in cold courage, Nice to know it’s
all well with him in New Zealand.
• •
Going to 185 Macquarie-street, Sydney,
to congratulate one of the new knights,
an old acquaintance asked whether Sir
Herbert Schlink was in. “He is,” replied
the liftman; “and you’re the first visitor
who’s called him that today.” For Sir
Herbert, though turned 71, is still
“Bertie” to troops of friends in Sydney
and Avalon (where he takes his ease at
weekends), while remaining “Dr.”
Schlink to multitudes of grateful patients,
who have had the benefit of his skill and
his devotion to the cause of suffering
MEDICO-KNIGHT
humanity, in the latter case as chairman
of Sydney’s Royal Prince Alfred Hos-
pital and president of the Australian
Hospital Association. A bom raconteur
who has travelled widely, he seems to stop
smiling only when he talks of hospitals,
and of Sydney’s need for a mightier
R.P.A.; and of the need of medical
students for greater opportunities of
learning their profession thoroughly.
The Schlinks are an old Wodonga (Vic.)
family, and the Sydney representative,
whom two generations of Diggers claim
as mate, won his charming Lady Mar-
garet when she was clinical superinten-
dent at the King George V Memorial Hos-
pital. She is still a busy honorary.
The cry of P. N. Cryer was first heard
58 years back, when his pioneer parents
had been settled for two years in a tent
at Taihape, in the centre of the North
Island pf New Zealand. Now he’s re-
tired—as Director-General of the N.Z.
Post Office. With the Enzed Rifle
Brigade in Belgium and France, posting
messengers to .the Kaiser, he was back
in the Middle East in the late stoush,
released by the post-office to supervise
the Kiwis’ mail-organisation.
A Clark impression of JAMES WORK-
MAN, in turn London policeman, Mer-
chant Navy sailor, soldier with the South
African forces in the Middle East,
radio script-writer and now, with his
“Eternal Night ” currently at Sydney
Independent, playwright.
“Rothjay”: John Herington, author
of the third volume of the official
R.A.A.F. history, Air War Against Ger-
many and Italy, 1939-43, was a Catalina
skipper, is now a top-ranking security-
officer in the Department of Supply.
Behind his casual facade hides a brain
that rarely rests; his latest work shows
an assiduous exactness for detail. A
Cambridge M.A. who joined the Child
Emigration Society in 1937, he studied
sociological problems in London for a
year, then came to Australia to have a
look at the Fairbridge farm-schools.
War II caught him here; he got into the
R.A.A.F. pronto, served in the Cats from
Gibraltar to Northern Ireland, and
moved to Intelligence in 1944 after
logging hundreds of hours of sea-patrol.
He started his present work while attached
to the historical section of R.A.A.F.
overseas h.-q. An easy-to-talk-to cove,
never seen without his heavy-bowled
briar, even under the shower.
• •
Into the Silence :
At Newport (Sydney), at 75, Gerald F.
Dampney, inventor of the Dampney building
system, and an enthusiast in everything he
undertook. There was a boyish freshness and
charm about him that sometimes belied his
intense interest in human affairs.
In Perth, at 79, Joseph Robert Campbell, son
of a former military commandant of Westralia,
and first manager of the State Hotels. Born
in the Isle of Wight, he started in a Perth
bank, became first secretary of the W.A. Health
Department, and, as a qualified accountant,
went to London in 1904 to finalise the Westralian
Government’s accounts for the Boer War.
Manager of the W.A. State Hotels from their
establishment till he retired in 1939, he had
been president of the W.A. Fire Brigades Board,
and was high up in St, John Ambulance.
In Sydney, at 93, John Stuart Fraser, thus
reducing to a handful the ranks of the Sudan
Contingent. A Scot who volunteered for the
expedition soon after his arrival in Sydney,
Fraser was declared medically unfit for the
infantry, but was accepted in the Army Medical
Corps. He joined up again when the Boer
War started, saw it out, then settled down
to the peaceful occupation of growing flowers
in Sydney’s Botanical Gardens.
In London, at 67, Rupert Harvey, veteran
Shakspearian and radio-actor, who came to Aus-
tralia in 1939 for Trinity College, London, to
conduct examinations in the art of speaking.
Unable to secure passage home when war broke
out, he stayed in Perth, announcer and talks-
supervisor for the A.B.C.
At 88, in Sydney, William Thornton Kerr,
probably Sydney’s best-known timekeeper—tor
years honorary docker for the A.J.C. and other
racing clubs, for G.P.S. athletic meetings, from
their inception, and a mort of amateur sporting
bodies. He raced, as well as timed, his horse
Modulation winning the 1943 A.J.C. St. Leger
and the 1944 Epsom Handicap. Till retirement
in 1938 he had been a George-street jeweller.
In Bedfordshire (Eng.), at 28, Bruce Heither-
say, in the crash of Britain’s four-jet, crescent-
winged newest bomber, the Handley Page Victor.
In the RA.A.F. since, at 18, he joined-up p
Adelaide, later to navigate Liberator bombers m
War 11, Heithersay took an engineering course
at Adelaide University after the war, joined tne
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation at Fisher-
men’s Bend (Viet), and last year was selected oy
the Handley Page firm to work in England on
engineering research. All four members ot tne
bomber-crew were killed.
At 96, in his old home at Parramatta (N-S-W n
John C. H. Mingaye, remembered for his
pioneering work in N.S.W. Mines Department,
including research into the composition o l
meteorites. .
In Brisbane, at 87, A. R. Gillespie, one-time
manager of the National Bank in Brisbane, n®
had worked long and well for St. Andrews
Presbyterian Church, the Australian Inlano
Mission and the Flying Doctor Service.


THE TACTICIAN


ABORIGINALITIES
TIJE’D been in the township for
I don’t know how long, the boss
solidly on rum, and I taking a few
whiskies every again and now. On our
way home a ’roo leaped out of
the wilderness that js the local ceme-
tery, and went bumpety across the road,
“A yaller emu,” gasped the trump.
“A flamin’ yaller emu!” It surprised me,
too, to see a Too in the locality, but there
it was, so I let the boss think it was an
emu, ’cause the poor cow was near in
the rats. But it was a Too all right, and
it was wearing a butcher’s apron, a pink
bonnet, and green laughing-side boots.
So we each had a cocktail of rum,
whisky and pain-killer, and bedded down
on a tombstone. —“Hanko.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”; Donkeys are becom-
ing a serious pest in the East Kimberleys,
and pastoralists are cursing the old team-
sters who turned the beasts loose when
motor-tranport put them out of business.
The donks are thriving and competing
with the cattle for grass; but they do
“ He's dead scared of rats!”
most damage at watering-places, where
they smash troughs, and at the pools,
where they get in amongst the cattle and
drive them away. You’d think a well-
horned steer would be more than a match
for a donk., but the little bloke’s a demon
with hooves and teeth. The cattle seldom
stay to argue.
“Billy T.”: I’m camped in a woolshed
within a mile of the top of the Divide,
but am afraid I’ll have to move back to
the tent. The shed is better—waterproof
roof, more room, table to sit at and a
lean-to under which I can cook protected
from the weather. But there’s a possum
in the rafters, a rabbit-burrow under the
floor, and a cat that haunts the place
from dusk to dawn. I don’t mind the
marsupial scampering about the roof and
sniffing round the tucker-box;
the bunnies can eat all the grass
and the rails off the yards for all
I care ; the cat may prowl where
it can—my meat-safe is secure.
But on nights when the frost is
settling before the west is pro-
perly dark, when I wear three
sweaters over pyjamas, have a
new woolbale between the
blankets, leave my socks on and
arrange my balaclava so that my
snorkel only is naked, I expect
my Irish terrier to curl up on my
feet and dam’ well stay there. I
honor her passion for protecting
me, but in this climate to have
her leap off duty to investigate
any scratch, nibble or shadow
not only wrecks slumber but
carries the famed hot-and-cold
method of treatment to an insane
extreme —within minutes of her
departure the knees are under
the chin, and when on her even-
tual return to her post I try to straighten
them out again they creak. So back to
the tent it is ; the wind may roar and the
possums chatter, but once I * tie those
flaps together we’re in for the night—in
to stay.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: In Australia, as in New
Zealand, the imported starling does a
good job by cleaning-up insect pests in
improved pastures, but it can do a lot
of damage in orchards. From America
comes news of an almost absurdly-simple
method of keeping these birds away from
fruit-trees. Hubert Frings and Joseph
Jumber, of Pennsylvania University, held
a captured starling by the legs and re-
corded its shrill distress-calls. A sound-
truck then “beamed” these sounds,
greatly amplified, at flocks of starlings
in the trees. The terrified birds immedi-
ately headed for the horizon. Even more
remarkable is the fact that they didn’t
come back. Further, for some as-yet-
unexplained reason, starlings from other
flocks thereafter avoided the trees from
which their cobbers had been scared.
The plan could be adopted here. A few
amplifiers at strategic points among the
fruit-trees, a gramophone pick-up and
a few playings of a recorded starling dis-
tress-cry might be more effective than
all the dawn-to-dusk patrolling and
firing of shots now used. It should also
interest sheepmen. An amplifier to broad-
cast the warning call of the crow in pad-
docks where ewes are lambing should
reduce the damage now caused by these
black ghouls. It seems a job for the
Wild Life Division of C.5.1.R.0.
H. A. Lindsay: When I wrote my
Bushman’s Handbook I thought I’d
listed every possible way of getting a
drink in country where there is no sur-
face-water. Now Allen Betteridge, an
Adelaide inventor of handy gadgets, has
shown me a new one. All earth, as
distinct from sand, contains a certain
amount of moisture, no matter how dry
it may look or feel. It holds most water
first thing in the morning, after capillary
attraction during the night has brought
moisture to the surface from the deeper
soil-levels. The dampest earth is found
on the shady side of rock-outcrops or
under trees which are growing well, in
spite of the arid look of the country.
Anyone who has camped out in our
desert country, even in midsummer, will
know how this moisture, rising during
the night, will dew the underside of a
waterproof groundsheet. Betteridge’s
“Never knowed the crick rise so quick.”
idea is to put some earth into an oil- or
water-drum, heat it over a fire and con-
dense the steam from it by passing it
through a length of tube. His tests have
shown that even dry-looking earth can
be made to yield about half-a-pint of
water from every ten pounds’ weight of
soil. Many who have died of thirst in
our outback country might have lived
if they’d known this; even an ordinary
billycan can be used by collecting the
moisture which will dew the inside of
the lid,
♦ * * m
“Nonnel”: I had introduced myxo.,
and noted with unholy glee the devasta-
tion created, spoke of it with braggadocio
in the home, and had the kids rejoicing
with me at the slaughter. Then a charac-
ter named Frisky, a kitten-rabbit featured
in a comic-strip in a Sunday paper,
developed the dread disease. For a few
tear-jerking episodes my offspring usurped
their mother’s privilege and relegated me
to the kennel. Fortunately Frisky sur-
vived, and I am gradually regaining my
proper status as the head of the house.
But what I’d like to know is: if that lump
of underground mutton had thrown a
seven, would I have had a case against
that paper for the alienation of my chil-
dren’s affections?
♦ * * •
“Villefair”: Talking about all the
Aussie fauna that has moved in on you
Shivery Islanders (“Warihi,” B. 7/7/’54),
what happened to that “mystery bird”?
Back in 1947 I read a report that a
strange bird had flown over Auckland at
night. It was very big, flew with its neck
thrust out straight, and called in flight.
Later it was seen some distance away
and described as a wild swan. A particu-
larly keen observer, however, noted
where it appeared to roost one night. He
searched the locality at daybreak and
found one “grey-and-brownish feather.”
Ornithologists examining this declared
that it came from an Australian brolga.
They decided that the bird must have
escaped from captivity, but were unable
to prove that there had ever been a
brolga in N.Z, —even in a zoo. The
feather was brought to Australia, checked
with brolga-feathers in Sydney and Mel-
bourne Museums, and established as a
secondary feather from a brolga’s wing.
But whence the bird came and where it
went —well, oyer to you, “Warihi.”
« • ♦ <
“Kelms”: Some Perth businessmen
who applied for a permit to search for
diamonds near Nullagine, in nor’-Wes-
tralia, were granted a reserve of 300
acres, but gave up after thoroughly pros-
pecting the area. Five diamonds were
found there in 1895, and one or two have
turned up each year since, the best
weighing up to 3i carats and fetching up
to £75. Some of them were excellent
gems, pure white and well up to standard
for brilliance and transparency. The value
of those sold is probably well over
£3OOO, and there’s likely to be a pocket
of them somewhere near the town, but
although the bulk of them have come
from one locality. Brooks’ Hill, and there
have been several attempts to find the
main source, no great number has ever
been found at one time. Geologists
think that the pocket, if it’s still there,
will take a lot of finding, and the latest
syndicate agrees with them.
Jj, * * * *
“Cliff Towers”: Wrecking (B.
14/7/’54) was for centuries almost the
main industry on many parts of the
Cornish coast, and one which the in-
habitants had brought to a high degree
of efficiency. Even the local cows were
pressed into service; with lanterns hung
from their horns they gave, as they
strolled about the cliff-tops, a convinc-
ing impression of a large community and,
therefore, safe harborage where none
existed. Legend has it that the parson in
one of these centres always concluded his
petitions for those in pen! on the sea by
pointing out to the Almighty that,
although he was not praying for ships
to be wrecked, he and his congregation
would be very grateful if any that were
already doomed to destruction could be
guided by the Divine Hand to their par-
ticular part of the coast, “to the great
benefit of the poor inhabitants thereof.”
MY VALLEY
I knew a wonderful valley
In the golden long ago
Where the wild thrush sang reveille
When dawn set skies aglow.
In my valley was a river,
Where the stars’ white shadows gleamed.
And the tall trees stood for ever,
Or so to me it seemed.
There was a white track winding
By the river, through the trees,
As though it were bent on finding
A vale of bushland ease.
Where the sounds of rail and highways
Would fade in a soundless dream
Lost in the valley’s byways,
Where the high white wind-clouds
gleam.
It was a wonderful valley
With a hut where I might bide,
Away from the wind’s rough sally,
Where the Little People hide;
The Mist Maid came from the river,
Lovely, yet never there.
And frost made the bush trees shiver
Like white ghosts, tall and bare.
I had a wonderful valley,
Yet where has my valley gone? . . a
The thrush’s loud reveille
Sounds no more in the dawn . . .
The tall trees have been levelled;
Past banks of *arth and stone,
Where once wild singers revelled.
The river flows alone.
The old hut, too, has vanished,
Burned by a vandal’s flame;
Peace from the place is banished,
Beauty is just a name
For something that now has perished
And only in dreams will glow—-
The valley that once I cherished
As something the gods should know.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Old Reliable
lyrOW that the last sump has shattered
on the last boulder, and the last
axle given up the ghost in the most
recent mass-motor-jaunt around Aus-
tralia, I find myself thinking, with fond
regret, of the late Henry Ford’s master-
piece, the Model T. For years I trundled
around the remoter parts of Westralia’s
nor’-west at the wheel of one. Any stump
or rock high enough to damage the sump
first met the front axle; if it was not
thereby dislodged, it stopped the bus
before any damage was done. Any hill
too steep for low gear was conquered in
reverse. By operating the forward and
reverse pedals in the manner of one
playing a pianola, the chariot could be
rocked out of any gutter she happened to
stick in.
Any reluctance to start could
be overcome by jacking-up a rear-wheel
and winding the handle with car in gear;
don’t ask me why or how, because I doubt
if even Henry knew. Sometimes a good
swift kick in the radiator was equally
effective; at others, a brief rest while
one smoked a cigarette in the shade got
results. But it was while opening a gate
when travelling alone that the old girl
turned on her best act —a habit of mov-
ing slowly ahead while in neutral. Nice
calculation was needed to stop suffici-
ently far from the gate to ensure that as
one opened it Lizzie, panting tremulously,
would be affectionately nuzzling the
small of the back. Then, as she shud-
dered through, one closed the gate,
nipped smartly along the track, and leapt
aboard.
Repairs were no problem while
fencing-wire, greenhide and timber were
to be had —anyway, for £5 one could
carry enough spares to practically re-
build the crate with £l hammer and a
spanner. Instrument-trouble was un-
known —there weren’t any. The oil-
pump, the fuel-pump, the batteries
couldn’t fail either, for the same reason.
Transmission was by the “planetary”
system, which was about as easy to
understand as its heavenly counterpart
and functioned as regularly. Yes, in that
old bus I mightn’t have been among the
first 200 home, but I’ll bet we’d have
got home.
GULLIVER.


'"THOUGH he possessed in full measure
the Celt’s contempt for the Saxon,
my friend Hamish would have been the
first to endorse their belief (B. 14/7/’54)
that it was unlucky to rescue a man from
the sea. I met him thirstily regarding the
outside of a Townsville (Q.) waterfront
pub, his job *as second-engineer on a
coaster gone, his money gone, and noth-
ing in sight. These miseries, he explained,
had befallen him through no fault of his
own; they resulted simply from his own
nobility in saving a man from drowning.
Some weeks earlier he had filled himself
to the gunwale with good Queensland
rum, proceeded to the jetty, and there
laid violent hands upon the master and
the mate of his ship. Resenting the in-
trusion of a constable into a private
argument, Hamish had embraced the
Law and plunged with him over the side.
It there became apparent that the Law
couldn’t swim, so Hamish dragged him
to some near-by steps, where he was
promptly arrested, to spend the ensuing
three weeks in .Stewart Creek jail. “Save
a man’s life and get lumbered for it!”
he snarled, “Is that justice in y’r dommed
Australian democracy? ” —“Jackstay.”
* * * *
“Burindi”: On the reverse side of this
wide-street symposium (B. 30/6/’54) let
me nominate Gulgong (N.S.W.) as the
possessor of the narrowest. Like Ballarat,
it is an old mining town, but if the old-
timers ever felt a pressing need to turn
their bullock-teams round they appar-
ently went outside the town to do it.
Arriving in the main street in a small
12-h.p, car one market-day, when each
side of the street was lined with parked
cars, we found it easier to carry on round
the block than attempt to turn when we
overshot the pub.
* * * •
“Sweipme”: My hound, like his master,
has never suffered in silence, but it was
no ordinary whinge that woke us up at
about two in the morning. The poor old
fellow had apparently been hit by a car;
he was holding his left forepaw up and
his right flank was badly bruised. To
stand was obviously agonising for him,
but every time he tried to lie down the
howls of pain were wrung out again.
Yet no bones were broken. What to
do? No vet. would appreciate being
dragged out at that hour, unless the case
was desperate. At the same time it would
be a callous coot who could go back to
sleep with the dog still in agony. It was
then the wife took over. A few minutes
later she came in. “He’ll be all right
now,” was the confident prophecy.
When the whining grew fainter, then
stopped, I went out to look. The patient
was sound asleep on the doormat. She’d
put an A.P.C. powder in a cold sausage
and smothered the lot with condensed-
milk. He wasn’t feeling bad enough to
refuse that.
* * * *
I
“C. Coral”; Cassowary-feathers from
New Guinea figured extensively in the
decoration of objects used by Torres
Strait braves. They were attached to the
big wooden shafts used in dugong-hunt-
ing; formed part of the ornaments in
warfare, and rose from the islander’s top-
piece as head-dress. When specially-pre-
pared by the zogoman, at the Augud
shrine, they served another purpose. At
the time of going off to war, the feathers
were solemnly placed on the head of two
men who led the warriors. A bodyguard
for these men was provided; their job
was to look after the two wearers of the
sacred feathers, who were not allowed to
join personally in the fray. The Tutu
Islanders believed the feathers possessed
magical properties which enabled them
to show where enemies were concealed.
“Sackville”: Read on an old Bully
cover that Wentworth Woodhouse, the
largest mansion extant in England, used
to carry (in Good Queen Bess’s reign) a
staff of 64, “including an entertainer
known as ‘Tom Foole’.” Whether Tom
Foole was the name of an individual, or
the traditional title for the entertainer, is
not clear; but it seems likely that the
“Tom-Fool’s knot” originated at Wood-
house. An expert
can tie the knot very
simply: he takes the
length of the rope in
both hands, crosses
arms, catches the
slack with both little-
fingers, straightens
his arms again, and,
if he has twisted the
loops the right way,
the Tom-Fool is
ready for use one
large noose between
two smaller ones. Its
purpose? To tie a
prisoner so that he
can’t possibly escape.
The story goes that
a sailor once took-up
Houdini’s offer to ex-
tricate himself from
any bonds tied with
a rope. The matelot
flicked-out a Tom-
Fool, slipped the big
noose over the esca-
pologist’s head, and
the small ones on his
upper arms. Houdini
admitted defeat im-
mediately, explaining
to the audience that
no man had ever es-
caped from a Tom-
Fool’s knot, for the
excellent reason that
the moment he moves his arms he
tightens the noose around his neck, caus-
ing strangulation.
* * ♦ *
“8.A.K.”: I’d like to be able to accept
the theory that dogs rushing in to rough-
up one of their kind injured by a car
are applying “a kind of artificial respira-
tion” (B. 7/7/’54), but, alas, I can’t. The
truth is that they are instinctively obey-
ing nature’s cruellest law —the survival
of the fittest. If a fellow-creature is sick
or injured, then the able-bodied set upon
the afflicted and kill it. Fowls provide an
ever-present example, but the trait is less
evident in canines—which makes it all
the more horrible when it does come out.
A friend used to breed those ridiculous-
looking Sydney Silkies. Four of the little
“ Don't just stand looking at it —DO something !”
mongs, all reared together, were nosing
around the yard one morning when one
strayed too near a tied pony’s hind legs.
The pony lashed out, sending the dog
flying, its back leg broken. The poor
little creature yelped its agony. Immedi-
ately the other three rushed in to the
attack, savage as wolves. Within the two
minutes it took to break up the melee
the afflicted dog had received fatal bites.
THE PAPER-BARKS
Time is a lake, a lonely lake of silver,
bordered with tossed weed, fed by an inlet river,
nothing upon its margins save five trees;
grouped on the brink in silent smoothness, these,
no movement of their ruffles in the wind.
Cannot get their slender white limbs out of mind.
They are like graceful ladies, mirror-held;
lonely and lovely and enchantment-spelled.
Beyond them the shore goes curving round a
bend.
Here lies a stretch of vague trees, swampy land,
which keep a half-light quiet, secret, still;
home of lost legends told to him who will
pause to listen for the plash of shadowy raft,
glimpse the dim lithe dark forms and sense the
soft
minor syllables, to free those memories
from spell within spell of five white lady trees.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
NO SALE
AS the salesman approached I could
tell by the extra-friendly smile that
he had already made his deduction,
That it was a false one was scarcely his
fault—how could he possibly have known
that it was my brother-in-law’s best suit,
not my own, that I was wearing?
I could, of course, have shattered his
hopes immediately by informing him of
this; but would it have been ethical to
disclose it to a perfect stranger, when my
“Have you had any radioactive contacts lately?”
brother-in-law didn’t even know about it
himself?
“This Gelidair you were just looking
at,” he said smoothly, “has many admir-
able features. The shelves are, as you
can see”—he swept the door open—
“arranged in echelon formation. The
makers’ industrial psychologists worked
it out that the majority of women like
to have things off-precise. You yourself
will doubtless have noticed that your wife
will place an occasional chair at an odd
angle, or put a table-runner on diagon-
ally instead of straight across,
“This refrigerator also has a new
patent door which when slammed heavily
automatically flies open again. A frig.-
door is slammed extra hard only for one
reason: bad temper. The harder this
door is slammed the harder it flies back;
the slammer has only to be knocked down
by it on the rebound a few times to learn
to control his or her temper, and to shut
it—as it should be shut—gently.”
“Another notion of the industrial
psychologist, no doubt,” I put in. “Yet
it seems an unwarranted interference with
a perfectly natural function. An out-
burst of temper can be a safety-valve,
By thus attempting to persuade a man
to forgo it, the makers of this device
could possibly cause his blood-pressure
to leap dangerously because he would
have to boil his ire inwardly. I person-
ally would resent being remonstrated to
by an inanimate object. I think, if I
may revert to the graciousness of 18th-
century language, that the idea stinks!”
I could see I had hurt his salesman’s
pride in his wares. His brows came
down, and he slammed the door of the
frig, savagely.
After I had picked him up and dusted
him he recovered something of his old
poise, then directed my attention to
another machine near by.
“Now this model,” he said confidently,
“though only moderately-priced—a bare
hundred and seventy-five—is rapidly
achieving popularity because of its revo-
lutionary improvement: a dust-ejector.”
“Quite a clever idea,” I ventured.
“Made no doubt to appeal strongly to
the customer living in the Far West who
is addicted to leaving his frig.-door open
-as well as the back and front doors of
his house-during heavy dust-storms.”
TT . , , °
He looked at me pityingly. Every
time a refrigerator door is opened,’ he
said icily, even in a city on a windless
day, a microscopic quantity of germ-
laden dust enters. In this model the dust-
ejector system comes into operation
automatically as soon as the door is
opened, and a stream of refrigerated
aseptic air flows out, repelling any dust
waiting to enter.
“Excellent,” I put in. “How much
more efficient than the., old-style frig. 1
have, which entices the poor unwary
germs in when the door opens and then
freezes them to death before they have
had time to lay their deadly eggs that
is, if germs do lay eggs, though they may
be mammalian for all I know on the
victuals.”
He looked at me as if I was something
the cat had dragged in, then motioned
me to a large ornate model further along.
“Perhaps this one is more to your
liking,” he said, and his voice gave the
impression that a few turns of barbed-
wire had got wound around his larynx,
“Not as expensive as the best, of course—
it is a mere two hundred and twenty-five
—but one in which any housewife could
take at least a qualified pride. In addi-
tion to the usual features it has an inside
light which can be put on either dimmer
or high beam. And for only three-pounds-
five extra it can be lit with a daylight
lamp in a beautiful duck-egg blue.”
“Most ingenious,” I agreed. “But
wouldn’t a daylight lamp be quite use-
less were the frig, to be opened on a
very dark night?”
He looked at me sternly, then led the
way to a quite-palatial affair in pastel-
green baked enamel,
“Now here,” he said pontifically, “we
are getting into the good class”—he
flicked the label up and looked—“two
hundred and seventy-five guineas. But
the electronic door is well worth the
extra. Just think! By simply walking
through an invisible beam your wife
would be enabled to put the two things
18 holding in each hand straight into
£r£ S-> f° r the door would automati-
cad 7 open! It can also be adjusted to
°P e " r f. mo . te con,rol £r ° m > “ y > the
S a f de “ " he . . . .
. That - , 1 com* dad . would indeed be
a I rem <-ndous saving of my wtfes physt-
ca£ and n f™ us ener f y ' as s , he has £o
P at two f £hin * s in the
frig, as often as four times a year.
yje ignored the remark, “But if you
are wanting something which would
rea Uy please your wife,” he went on,
“y OU nee dn’t look beyond this magnifi-
cent s Freezemaster. It will hold
a bagfu { of potatoes, a side of beef, a
case soft-drinks and half a dozen
cauliflowers , a s well as all the other
articles
one puts in refrigerators,
“It also has a special boot-compart-
ment in the bottom. The industrial
psychologists, in co-operation with foot-
specialists and the Health Depart-
ment, have found that deep-frozen foot-
wear is one of the greatest reinvigorating
agents known to medical science. This
wonderful model is priced at only three
hundred and forty-four pounds nineteen
an d eleven.”
j looked at the gargantuan affair. “I
was considering the size,” I began,
“Qh, that would fit into your kitchen,
I’m sure,” he said,
“I rather think our kitchen would fit
into it,” I replied. “And that’s just the
trouble. You see, I would be appalled at
the prospect of having to wear two
woollen singlets, a polo-necked sweater
and a heavy topcoat while I was doing
the washing-up on a sweltering Febru-
ary night. I’m sorry, but it won’t be
suitable. Good-morning.”
Bo.


_ No. I oj a ISeries
Men who make.*...
Gafttm
-tluhdtfat&lmco
l u
s,
Mr. “Sandy” Adams has for years supervised the
storage of tobacco leaf for the “ Capstan” blend.
This leaf is selected and bought at auction from the
finest Virginia types and after being re-dried is
packed into cases for shipment to “ Capstan”
storages. From winter sleep to summer-time
ripeness, Capstan’s leaf mellows and sweetens until
such time as uniformity and ageing are complete—
giving the smoothness and fragrance required by
“Capstan’s own blend.” Watch for further
interesting advertisements in this series.
(( Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
/
wsm.
mm
m
mm
mt
s
m
X9BODB-53
TILLEY... %, reme 100%
& LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
m
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on li pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: ( THE guardsman )
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD. *
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TIIXEY
products.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Investment Strength
THOUGH it has come rather
more suddenly and bolster-
ously than forecast, the
strengthening of the market for
industrial shares in the second
half of 1954 has been otherwise
in accord with anticipations
previously noted here. True,
discrimination is not yet
particularly evident, and The
Bulletin’s advice has been to
invest selectively. Until the
1953-54 numbers (or figures) are
up few can say whether the
market’s judgment—or “informa-
tion”—has been correct. But in
many cases there have been
interim dividends to go by, as
well as comprehensive production
records from the Canberra
statisticians. Generally, both
statistics and interim dividends
have been promising, though
there are spots in the economy
where special factors have pro-
duced poorer results.
In the sharemarket it is also
a fact that some of the exuber-
ance of the oil and uranium
sections has spilt over into the
industrials. This has been partly
responsible for the bumpy nature
of the recovery in share prices.
Psychology is again at work in
the support for industrial and
other investment shares, though
it is not yet a very potent factor,
Still, the tendency to buy shares
today in anticipation of what
someone else will be prepared to
pay next month—carried to an
extreme degree in the mining
sharemarket—has crept bade
into the industrial market within
the past few weeks. Previously
there was a very strict regard for
known yields. The same regard
will return in due course—after
balance-sheets are out—but by
that time many yields are likely
to justify the higher price paid,
B.H.P. has come back to 455,
since details of the new issue
were made public, and theoretical
value of the rights is 12s. 6d.
A.C.I. touched 545. 3d. immedi-
ately before the increase in the
div. from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c.—
was announced ; then it dropped
hack to 525. There is still talk
°f a new issue from this port-
manteau enterprise, and the yield,
even on the new div.-basis, is
under 4 p.c. Other new issues
are coming from several
concerns, including a 7 p.c. pref.
issue from General Industries,
Kandos Cement (165.-paid) in
Sydney has taken a leap to
40s. 9d. in anticipation of a
higher dividend. In Melbourne
the £1 shares in Australian
Cement have gone up to 40s. 6d.
Kandos (with 935,920 16s. shares
issued) and Australian Cement
(with 947,766 £1 shares) have
an equal holding in the operating
co., Australian Portland Cement
Pty. Though the Kandos div.
on a 16s. share looks higher (in
rate) than the distribution from
Australian Cement, in actual
money 10 p.c. from Kandos on
100 shares is the same as 8 p.c.
from the same holding in Aus-
tralian Cement. Distributions of.
say, 12i p.c. and 10 p.c. respec-
tively (in the case of an increase)
would bear the same relation-
ships.
Almost the whole industrial
sharemarket has strengthened,
barring textiles, engineers and
collieries. The future is not
without its clouds, but accounts
to June 30 should certainly be
very attractive in many cases.
At the same time investments
should continue to be bought
selectively—that is, with close
regard to actual and potential
earning-power. A rush of
indiscriminate buying could do
the market for investment shares
a great deal of harm. Booms
of that nature usually burn
fingers and shake confidence in
the end.
If anything of a mineral
nature comes out of the oil and
uranium excitement there should
ultimately be advantages to all
industry. But a good deal of time
must elapse in the most fortunate
circumstances before any
advantages come from those
minerals themselves. Meantime
a selected industrial —say, Yarra
Falls at 38s. —bought to yield be-
tween 5 p.c. and 6 p.c. gives
immediate sustenance as well as
a comforting feeling of an
interest in any future general
expansion based on oil or
uranium discoveries, or simply
on the development of what we
know for certain that we possess
now.
Uranium and Oil
There has been high activity
in the market for uranium scrip
in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Holders of most uranium shares
are having a great old Cook’s
tour on ’Change, even if, in the
end, they finish back (or below)
where they started from. North
Australian Uranium Corp,
(“Nauc”) is leading the party at
the moment; its 2s. 6d.-paid
shares (there are 1,300,000 of
them) have been above 355., and
the show is valued in the
same class as King Island
Scheelite. Of course, there are a
lot of “might be’s” about
uranium-prospecting cos., but
really very little for certain so
far.
The special problems
associated with uranium-
prospecting cos. were clearly
explained in the special article
in last week’s Bulletin.
Also rising on the strength of
its Mt. Isa uranium interests,
Australasian Oil Exploration
scrip has gone to over 15s.
TTie present week began with
the oil-sharemarket generally
firm, but still waiting on any
real news from either W.A. or
Papua.
J. and A. Brown
One of the “depressed areas”
on the Stock Exchange remains
the coal section. And, among
the collieries listed, J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham in
June touched its lowest level —
17s. 3d, —for several years.
There has lately been a recovery
to. 18s. 9d., but, assuming that
the 8 p.c. div. is continued for
the term that ended on June 30,
the yield offering remains high
at 8.6 p.c.
Maybe talk of indigenous oil-
fuel and uranium-power has
affected the market for coal
shares. That seems to be look-
ing too far into the future. Oil,
anyway, has been plentiful for
half a century in the United
States, yet coal is still required in
enormous quantities. It seems,
in fact, that if oil is ever pro-
duced in the Commonwealth in
such large amounts that it
stimulates total national produc-
tion it will also stimulate output
of coal.
Greatest danger to the coal
industry would seem to be the
possibility of a return of a
“Labor” Government in Can-
berra later on. Over the past
few years of Joint Coal Board
control there have been more-or-
less “fixed” margins of profit in
the industry, but the control has
not been greatly to the detriment
of the coal cos., which, in fact,
have been doing better than for
many years past.
During the two years to June
30, 1953, J. and A. Brown,
before arriving at its profit, set
aside £125,000 each year for
depreciation, unspecified pro-
vision for taxation and amortisa-
tion, and £200,000 in 1951-52,
£400,000 in 1952-53, for tax-free
capital expenditure on plant.
The £ 150,000-odd of profit
remaining covered the 8 p.c. div.
with a little to spare.
But balance-sheet figures are
intriguing; they suggest that tax-
provision could be very ample
(it is said to be “sufficient to
cover all known liabilities”), and
the growth in “debtors, deposits
and cash in hand,” £1,104,907 a
year ago, is also interesting:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£*£/£,
Capital .. 1,900,007 1,900,007 1,900,007
Reserve . . 200,000 400,000
Contingen c y 154,992 155,002 155,002
Investment
fluctuation 33,949 83,949 33,949
P. & 1. a/c 103,230 109,955 113,171
Mortgage .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors and
tax prov’n 652,909 948,922 827,471
Due subsid. 2,898 49,095 125,741
Mine, plant,
steamer . . 1,267,996 1,582,184 1,487,113
Shares in
subsidiary 10,000 310,000 310,000
Consols and
shares .. 669,280 450,430 450,430
Debtors; de-
posits, cash 564,168 838,668 1,104,907
Stocks and
stores ~ 336,542 815,650 352,892
The co. is modernising its
collieries and equipment; a coal-
cleaning plant at Hexham will
give it an edge over its competi-
tors and tend to stabilise future
profits, A wholly-owned sub-
sidiary (Hexham Engineering
Pty., Ltd.) was formed during
1951-52, and it earns profits out-
side the coal industry as well as
in it.
The co. owns some of the best
collieries on the Maitland field,
and its output has been high over
the past three years.
Altogether it is highly likely
that in two or three years’ time
the investor who buys a few
hundred J. and A. Brown shares
will be better off than the specu-
lator who is left holding the
bag in one of the more fantastic
“oil” or “uranium” flotations.
Custom Credit Corp.
Spectacular success has
attended the first year’s opera-
tions of Custom Credit Corpora-
tion, Ltd. Registered on July 9,
1953, not only did the co. earn
25 p.c. (after tax) on average
capital employed in the period
to June 30 last; it issued its
accounts under date of July 12,
and called its first annual meet-
ing for July 29.
Dividend is 10 p.c.; after
writing-off preliminary expenses
and setting aside £5OOO for con-
tingencies, £20,017 remained for
reserves.
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia owns 40 p.c. of the co.’s
capital and its branches act as
financial agents. The co. itself
has branches in all the capital
cities.
Paid capital was £500,000 on
June 30, when unsecured-
note liabilities amounted to
£2,764,260, mostly maturing
within 12 months and carrying
up to 4 p.c. interest. The high
gearing of borrowed money to
capital partly explains the high
earning-power of the co., which
had £3,495,720 out on hire-
purchase contracts at balance-
day.
It is proposed, because of
rapid expansion, to “remould
the finances of the co.” by a
substantial increase in paid-up
capital. It seems a desirable
move, even if it should slacken
the rate of earning-power to
capital.
“Thar She Blows!”
“P. Mobile”: The result of the
gas-production test in Associated
Australian Oilfields’ No. 4 well,
as reported in the Sydney Press
on July 22, shoiKld cause no
surprise, let alone excitement.
The tests began at 8 p.m. on
July 20, and were concluded, it
is assumed, when the gas was
“turned off” the next day at
7 p.m. During that period the
hourly rate of production of gas
is stated to have built up from
12,500 to 31,250 cubic feet and
was increasing.
As this last-named figure is only
half of that reported after the
striking of the gas on June 8,
when “during a 30-minute
formation-test in the section be-
tween 3694 ft. and 3714 ft. [it]
gave a flow measuring at least
1,500,000 cubic feet per day
through a fin. choke,” the result
of the test can be described only
as disappointing, particularly in
view of the fact that the gas had
been sealed-off for over a month
and should have “built up” con-
siderably during that period.
This initial flow cannot, there-
fore, be described as spectacular,
but that part was achieved by
lighting the escaping gas, whose
flame, again according to the
Press reports, was 40ft. high and
“became one of Roma’s biggest
public attractions, drawing to the
site more than 3000 out of the
town’s 5000 population.”
The report would have been
far more valuable, us a means of
forming some estimate of the
commercial significance of the
gas, had the exact period of
uninterrupted flow in open well
been given, together with the
bottom-hole pressure at the start,
during and at the end of the test.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS a
OSUUJVAK
« man. *
s
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers.
ifgAP OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Tork
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Public Notice
I. GUISEPPE MUSUMECI, of Italian
nationality, bom at Adrano, Province of
Oatonia, Sicily, resident 6 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 80 Forbes Street,
East Sydney, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act 1948.
Would you like
good whisky better?
BEIXS
v °tcl. Wl
Ioo\ SCOTCH
DISTILLED AND BttNO* p
‘; IN 'SCOTLANO
tlA nP
D, STILLERSf»w SCO
ID**
There’s nothing better than a real
old Scotch Whisky. Or Is there?
If whisky is really good, made In
Scotland, well matured—can one
ask for anything more? We think
so. You can ask for just one thing
more—that it should bear the
name ‘Bell’s’. We have been distilling
and blending whisky since 1825.
We hope and believe that Bell’s
Whisky is as near perfection as
can be.
We are one of the few old firms of
independent distillers. We value
our independence. It gives us the
opportunity to go on making, as
we have done for some 125 years,
the finest whisky our long
experience can produce. But you.
Sir, are the man to judge. Buy a
bottle Of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky,
Taste it critically and see if you
do not savour that subtle flavour
which is Scotch Whisky at its
spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
“Please send a ’plane..,
with instructions how to fly”
Charles ritchie was a man who knew what
he wanted. When he was directing the con-
struction of the first pipeline in Persia, 1911,
he decided that a ’plane would be useful for
field survey work.
Without more ado he wrote home, ‘Please
send me the best machine available —and
don’t forget to enclose instructions on how to
fly.’ This was only eighteen months after
Bleriot had flown the English Channel, and
the nearest that Ritchie had been to an aircraft
was as a spectator at an air display!
The ’plane, a Bleriot monoplane with 50 h.p.
Gnome rotary engine, duly arrived, flew . . .
and crashed. Obviously the instructions were
inadequate! But the event nevertheless
marked the beginning of a new era, and the
beginning of fruitful association between
AIOG and flying.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
AVIATION
okl
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co, Ltd
2/54
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
“Cheap Money”
WITH a final spurt, N.Z.’s
record £3O million national
development and conversion loan
got home on the closing-day,
with a million to spare, and the
Labor-Socialists, who had been
forecasting a failure, were con-
founded by this show of confi-
dence.
It was hard going most of the
way for the six weeks —a million
a day to find, on the average,
barring weekends, and little
more than half this coming in
until reaching the home-stretch.
Investors took a lot of whipping-
up, with daily pep-talks on the
air, ads splashed in dailies and
weeklies and a screed of publicity
besides; tough uphill work,
while investors were having fun
on the Stock Exchanges and
money was flowing in great style
nearly everywhere else. For this
the Government could thank its
cheap-money policy—3| p.c. for
five years and £3 19s. 6d. per
cent, for 11-year and longer
terms.
But cheap money was a mis-
leading label, for concessions on
death-duty stock and tax-rebate
to give a minimum return of 2
p.c. to big taxpayers made the
gross rate equivalent to between
4\ p.c. and .7 p.c. for the privi-
leged. No benefits, strangely
enough, went to the ordinary
small investor, to whom the
campaign catchcry was mainly
addressed. A most misleading
catchcry this. The only small
folk who shared the benefits
were those near enough to the
end of the journey to be in-
terested in the death-duty stock,
in which cases, of course, the
real beneficiaries would be their
heirs.
None of the recent loans could
have been floated if the rates
were as they seemed, below 4
p.c.; the concessions did the
trick.
Repeatedly during the flota-
tion the Government played on
the feelings of the people by
making the most of the “lend, or
else” method of whipping
them along, the alternative being
credit-financing or enforced
contraction of the works pro-
gramme. There was another
alternative, unmentioned —to let
interest-rates go free—but both
political parties in N.Z. stand for
cheap money, the Labor-Social-
ists openly and unblushingiy, and
the Holland Government, as the
loans of the past two years have
shown, somewhat deceitfully.
The natural and sensible attitude
of investors in such conditions is
to go mainly for short-dated
stock, and this is what they’re
doing. This will be the tactics
until the interest outlook is
clarified.
Boom in Shares
Bullish influences in shares in
N.Z. have been so strong and
persistent that prices are today
within reach of the 1951 peak,
and the boom of the past year
ranks with that at the beginning
of the Korean war. Some whop-
ping gains have been recorded,
particularly since January,
mainly at the expense of
yields, because most divs. have
remained steady.
Banks, industrials and retail
stores have had a spirited run,
due largely to curbs on new
capital-issues, which have kept
the market in a highly liquid
condition. Many cos. have been
waiting in the queue for the con-
sent of the Capital Issues Com-
mittee to raise capital, but few
approvals have been granted, for
reasons of Government policy.
In view of this and prospective
opportunities to acquire plenty
of new shares in some of the
best cos, over the next year or
two, it might pay investors to
keep funds liquid rather than
follow the market if it goes much
higher.
Supply and demand are
responsible for the conditions
ruling. The balance could be
easily tilted the other way by
several factors, such as easing in
exchange-, import- and price-
controls, a drop in export in-
come, or stronger monetary and
fiscal policies. Most of the pres-
sure has been concentrated on
N.Z. shares, and it is in this
section of the market that move-
ments have been most spectacu-
lar. Australian stocks have been
outstripped in the big rise.
Here’s how the market has
gone (N.Z. currency):
June, Dec., July,
’53. ’53. ’54.
Nat. Bk.
N.Z. 645. 725. 90s.
A. Bk. 325. 345. 40s.
Dominion
Brew. 70s. 725. 88s.
N.Z. Brew. 395. 425. 465.
N.Z. Ins. 116 s. 6d. 120 s. 6d. 130 s.
S. British 51s. 6d. 61s. 635. 3d.
Fpltex
(N.Z.) 30s. 325. 355. 6d.
Dunlop
(N.Z.) 15s. 15s. 6d. 20s. 9d.
Farmers
Trad. 395. 3d. 40s. 445.
B. 345. 9d. 355. 375.
Col.
Sugar £36 12s. 6d. £36 2s. 6d. £36
A.C.I. 375. 3d. 375. 6d. 365. 3d.
Fletchers 295. 6d. 30s. 9d. 41s. 6d.
1.C.1. 295. 9d. 30s. 30s.
Forest _, _.
Prod. 11s. 7d. 12s. lid. 14s. 6d.
Wilsons
Cem. 13s. 14s. 16s.
Woolworths
(N.Z.) 19s. 3d. 18s. 3d. 225. 6d.
Tip-Top
Ice 17s. 9d. 18s. 6d. 21s. 6d.
Along with the rise, share-
turnover has jumped by nearly
50 p.c. over the twelvemonth,
and is up by a much larger per-
centage in value. Altogether, it
has been a bumper time for
brokers and a most profitable
one for those shrewd enough to
know how to take advantage of
swings in the market.
Employment and Inflation
One of the puzzling aspects of
monetary conditions in N.Z. is
that the Reserve Bank seems un-
able to do much about inflation,
to which it points year after
year as the greatest danger to
the country. In its latest report
(to March 31), proudly announc-
ing a profit rise of £794,665 to a
peak of £2,091,932, the R.B.
says, warningly: “The danger at
present is not unemployment but
a continuation, or even an in-
tensification, of inflationary pres-
sure. Evidence of this lies in
shortage of skilled labor, the
strong demand for bank-credit
and the rising consumers’ price-
index.”
Glancing at trends abroad, the
R.B. is uneasy, as it might well
be, about possible reactions of
competitive world markets on
N.Z. prosperity if internal infla-
tion isn’t taken firmly in hand.
This, one would think, would be
a guarantee that the bank would
do its part to halt inflation, and
perhaps it will. What the bank
can’t promise, and the country
can’t be sure of, or even reason-
ably confident about, is that the
Government will do the right
thing. This is a time for forth-
right use of sound policy-
measures in banking, interest-
rates, taxation, savings, borrow-
ings and capital expenditures, all
of which have a bearing on
money, costs and prices. There
is too much talk in N.Z. about
the risks of unemployment, when
the real risks are that costs will
be forced to such a height by
controls, originally enforced to
create jobs and maintained too
long, that something is likely to
break.
Overfull employment is
chronic in N.Z. Improvement
which raised hopes last year was
halted before equilibrium was
reached, and conditions were
thrown off-balance again by the
10 p.c. wage-rise, something the
R.B. didn’t mention in its report,
although it was a major factor.
This year the cost of living is
higher than ever. Apparently
the majority of New Zealanders
still enjoy a sense of high pros-
perity, with plenty of money
about, and the Government has
overmuch faith in monetary
evidences that the country is
well off. Much of this prosperity
is artificial, but New Zealanders
as a class are not yet ready for
corrective measures.


fp
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Coltnan,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J, Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K3.Ei,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Hoffer;
W. Sydney Jones; Allan G. Potter.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Experienced Management
af Agricultural and
Eastern I Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company,
has a wide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides efficient manage-
ment, safeguards the interests of dependents, and provides ample security for the performance
of Trusts at a fixed and moderate cost.
W rife or call for free booklet
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
H
a
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR11C.35
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
lIJNGAGED in production of high-
grade women’s hosiery and lingerie
and fine wool- and rayon-fabrics and in
allied activities, the Prestige group of
parent and four offshoots is an efficient
organisation, in which the emphasis is
upon quality, style and value, which
have their roots in managerial and plant
efficiency. Ifie fabrics, etc., section is a
post-war extension of activities which
has been more of a hindrance than a
help to profit-earning over the last few
years. Shareholders, however, have the
board’s assurance that a vigorous policy
of reorganisation and adjustment will
“progressively lessen the burden and
ultimately justify the board’s faith in its
pioneering efforts.”
The parent’s activities —production of
hosiery and lingerie from a modem fac-
tory equipped with labor-saving plant at
Brunswick (Vic.) —are the backbone of
earnings, and turn in very satisfactory
profits. For the 26 years to 1951 the
parent never failed to pay a div., the
average for the period being 11 p.c. But
in 1952 group operations resulted in a
loss of £65,062, due to trouble in the
infant fabrics section, following the
import-flood and fall in wool prices.
This section is still troublesome. Still, net
earnings have shown a resilience which
is a testimony to the earning-power of
the hosiery and lingerie factories, and
bears out the chairman’s claim about pro-
gressive lessening of the burden else-
where.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, and allowing £107,445 (up
£12,480) for depreciation and £107,063
(down £27,484) for taxation, combined
net earnings for the year to March 31,
1954, were £22,589 stronger at
£163,209;
Prestige and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends \To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, seryes.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1951.. 259 8&5 10 p.c. = 57,243 65,016 816,898
Share premiums, £80,935 .. .. 897,833
Profit sale assets, £10,591 .. .. 908,424
Add sundry adjustments, £27,894 .. 936,318
To outside interests, £10,982 .. 925,336
Loss.
1952.. 65,062 8&5 5 p.c. = 46,762 818,512
Share premiums, £7,588 .. .. 821,100
Net addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833,678
Profit.
1953.. 8&5 7ip.c.= 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 .. 908,555
1954.. 163,209 8&5 H p.c.= 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles, now £11,201.
The £163,209, which disregards the net
movement in reserves interlined in the
table, was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£18,244) and show 20.6 p.c. On the
£701,978 of ord. capital as against 17.4
p.c, for the previous term. The ord. div.,
lowered from 12} p.c. in 1950 to 10 p.c.
in the following year and then to 5 p.c.,
was kept at 1} p.c.; money is wanted for
costly plant-extension dnd -modernisa-
tion and further strengthening of work-
ing capital. So £92,317 (56.5 p.c.) of the
year’s net earnings was ploughed back
into the business, lifting reserves to
£1,000,872, subject to £11,201 of in-
tangibles.
The worst of the troubles in 1952
occurred in Prestige Fabric, Ltd., which
showed a loss of £161,266, followed by
a loss of £49,509 in 1953. Accounts for
1954 are not yet available. Meanwhile
the parent has taken over the conversion
section of the Fabric co.’s business.
The o.ther troublesome partner was
Dapco Pty., in the roller- and screen-
printing trade, which has been absorbed
by another subsidiary, Dyecraft, Ltd.,
which operates textile-finishing, -printing
and -dyeing works in Victoria. Last term
it recorded a loss of £17,417 as against a
loss of £5875 for the previous year.
Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd., whose latest
accounts are not yet available, is the
leading hosiery- and lingerie-producer in
the Dominion, and has long been a good
profit-earner. Johnson Bros. Pty., smallest
member of the group, are throwsters and
crepers to the textile trade.
Omitting dividends from subsidiaries
and other cos., the parent’s own profit
last term was £83,833 (down £38,232),
The demand for hosiery exceeded the
supply, but the gain in this respect was
more than offset by losses in connection
with the recently acquired fabrics-con-
version section.
Movements in consolidated balance-
sheet figures are encouraging:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £303,060 £303,050 £303,050
Ord 686.802 701,978 701,978
Reserves .. .. 813,512 903,406 1,000,872
Outside interests. . 215,187 218,677 223,079
Loan .. . . 560,000 525,000 500,000
Overdraft .. ~ 849,284 330,854 734,555
Creditors .. .. 205,787 272,731 290,019
Taxation .. ~ 108,567 181,480 181,418
Final divs. .. 29,969 47,212 50,084
£3,772,158 £8,479,388 £3,985,055
Freeholds .. .. 698,966 695,774 718,371
Plant .. .. 1,053,213 1,101,382 1,256,320
Shares ~ .. 25,980 65,980 65,980
Stocks .. .. 1,757,545 1,386,468 1,655,309
Debtors .. .. 224,221 213.474 244,361
Cash, etc. .. 1,032 5,109 33,513
Intangibles, etc. .. 11,201 11,201 11,201
£3,772,158 £3,479,388 £3,985,055
* Includes excess cost over par value of shares held.
The year’s net additions of £154,938 to
plant, £268,841 to stocks and £30,887 to
book-debts reflect the modernisation and
expanding activity already referred to.
To help meet the outlay on these and
other items the overdraft was increased
by £403,701.
Further improvement in net earnings
will largely depend upon progress in the
fabrics section of the organisation. At
6s. 2d. the f.-p. ss. ords. return 6 p.c. on a
7} p.c. div. basis, with prospects. The
£lB p.c. and 5 p.c. prefs. at 255. 4d. and
16s. respectively each yield 6,2 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £6 12s. 4d. prefs, (both
lots rank equally for capital) and 12s. Id.
ords.
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
r T I HIS old-established biscuit-, cake-,
plum-pudding and ice-cream-mak-
ing business is in better trim than ever
before. Shareholders are now reaping
the benefits of the board’s policy of
making liberal allowances for deprecia-
tion and of keeping the div. moderate
and ploughing back most of the post-war
profits, thus enabling substantial addi-
tions to be made to plant and old equip-
ment to be replaced by modern labor-
saving devices. About three years ago
there was also a profitable extension of
activities to Tasmania, where the biscuit-
making business of C. D. Haywood Pty.
was taken over by a new subsidiary.
Swallow and Haywood Pty. And there is
an Ice Cream subsidiary which has been
an erratic contributor to the pool, and
another small offshoot provides the wafer
requirements for the rest of the group.
The parent’s paid capital has remained
steady at £300,000 for the last 30 years,
and includes £lOO,OOO which carries a
cumulative 6 p.c. and advances with the
ords. in any distribution beyond that
rate. At April 30 last the lot had the
support and assistance of £527,926 of re-
serves. Average net earnings shot up
from £12,702 for the 10 years to 1940
to £48,707 for the next decade and to
£78,075 for the four years to the close
of last accounts, which can be taken as
evidence of how the business has re-
sponded to reorganisation, plant-addi-
tions and -modernisation, buoyant post-
war markets and the recent extension of
operations to Tasmania, all of which
were financed out of savings.
Last term the parent’s turnover rose
“substantially,” sales and earnings of the
Tasmanian subsidiary .increased, too,
profits of the Ice Cream co, remained
steady, but those of the wafer-making
offshoot were lower. The improvement
in gross profit of the group (£609,714)
was £70,191. Including provision for
depreciation (£41,322, up £2680) and
taxation (£64,812, up £3960), exes.
(£518,813) gobbled £44,374 of the gain.
That left the net result £25,817 stronger
at £90,901:
Swallow and Ariell and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends v To Be- Re-
April, Profit, Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1950.. 62.475.8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 38,475 376,794
To staff fund, £5500 371,294
Sale assets, £1305 .. .. ..372,599
Deferred expenditure, £1260 .. ..371,339
1951.. 97,890 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 67,890 439.229
To staff fund, £5500 433,729
Tax arrears, £7848 .. .. .. 425,881
Net surplus sale assets, £ 3255 .. 429,136
Deferred expenditure, £1973 .. .. 427,163
1952.. 58,427 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 28,427 455,590
To staff fund, £4500 .. .. .. 451,090
Loss on sale assets, £1314 .. .. 449,776
1958.. 65,084 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 80,000 85,084 484.860
To staff fund, £3310 .. .. .. 481,650
Provision long-service leave, £18,500.. 463,050
Profit sale assets, £1293 .. .. 464,343
Tax overprovided, £13,317 .. .. 477,660
1954.. 90.901.12jp.c. 12Jp.c. 37,600 53,401 531,061
To staff fund, £3135 527,926
Reserves subject to £42,393 of goodwill at 30/4/’64.
The £90,901, which leaves out of the
reckoning items interlined in the table,
was equal to 30.3 p.c, on capital as
against 21.8, 19.4, 32.6, 20.8 and 20.1 p.c.
back to 1949. The spring in net earnings
was not quite so good as it looked be-
cause the 1953 profit was understated by
£13,317 overprovided for taxation and
now transferred back to the p. and 1.
account. The div, was lifted from 10
p.c. to an all-round 12} p.c., of which
the 2} p.c. was a tax-free centenary
bonus, making the average distribution
over the last four years 10.6 p.c. com-
pared with averages of 6.3 p.c. for the
preceding decade and 2.2 p.c. for the
decade before that.
There was a contraction of £15,241
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£196,207), due to additions of £41,293
to freeholds and £16,324 to plant, etc.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 200,000 200,000 200,000
Reserves .. .. 451,091 481,551 527,927
Creditors .. .. 188,810 211,034 311,444
Tax provision .. 78,725 180,755 64,812
Final divs. .. 19,600 19,500 27,000
£1,038,126 £1,142,840 £1,231,183
Freeholds .. 183,789 255,822 297,115
Plant, etc. .. 225,718 275,888 292,212
Stocks .. .. 207,490 200,616 185,606
Debtors .. . . 207,831 205,837 256,645
Cash, etc. .. 170,905 162,284 157,212
Goodwill .. .. 42,393 42,393 42,393
£1,088,126 £1,142,840 £1,231,183
Book-debts increased by £50,808, while
stocks were reduced by £15,010 and
£100,410 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors.
Since the books were ruled off turn-
over has been running at a higher level
than a year ago, which augurs well for
the current term’s profit. Both classes of
scrip recently sold at 445. (395. 6d. a year
ago) to return 5.6 p.c. on a 12} p.c. dis-
tribution, with satisfactory prospects.
Net tangible cover is 425. 6d. per share
—the prefs. participate in surplus assets.
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
RAPID and profitable expansion are
the features of the post-war history
of this old-established organisation,
whose activities spread throughout the
Commonwealth. The co. specialises in
distribution of a wide range of electrical
equipment and other engineering and
hardware lines, as well as in production
of steel reinforcements, etc. There is an
office in London which looks after over-
seas buying, and a new wholly-owned
subsidiary, William Adams Tractors Pty.,
handies the Tasmanian and Victorian
franchises, acquired some three years
ago, for the Caterpillar Tractor and Deer
cos. of U.S.A.
And those on the register have joined
in the prosperity. Over the five years to
the close of accounts in 1951 shareholders
put up £455,000 of fresh capital, together
with £90,000 of share premiums, which,
of course, have taken part of the gilt off
the gingerbread. Paid capital was thus
raised to £725,000, and it had the sup-
port and assistance of £761,500 of reserves
at April 30 last. The div., steady at
10.1 p.c. for the 11 years to 1948, was
raised to 12} p.c. for the two following
years, and to 15 p.c. for the four years
to the close of last accounts, with satis-
factory margins. These results were
achieved in a rapidly-expanding market,
largely sheltered from the impact of
overseas competition, which was such a
troublesome factor during the between-
wars period, when the light engineering
trades in Britain and Europe were un-
able to sell their output in their home
markets.
The only falter in net earnings since
1945 was in the 1953 term, when trade
generally was sticky and costs remained
buoyant—the new tractor section of the
business was probably the one hardest
hit. Still the profit claimed stood at a
high level in relation to capital, and the
position was better than it looked
because of overprovision for income
taxes —some or all of the £26,535 thus
transferred back to p. and 1. account last
term related to the previous year’s earn-
ings.
During the 12 months to April 30 last
import-restrictions were progressively
relaxed, competition remained keen, and
there was tendency for margins to nar-
row. Still, the quickening pace of econo-
mic activity, especially towards the close
of accounts, lifted turnover to a record
level, the rate of co. tax was reduced and
costs were less troublesome. So, after
allowing £33,788 (down £2366) for depre-
ciation and something for taxation, the
board figured net earnings £24,395 better
at a record £200,686:
, Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Be-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1948. .85,217 1750 10.1 p.c.= 35,416 48,051 212,687
Share premiums, £90,000 ~ .. 302,687
Unexplained addition, £1686 .. .. 804,373
1949.101,635 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 41,656 346,029
Added insurance reserve, £1755 .. 347,744
1950.111,078 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 51,099 398,848
1951.190,728 875 15 „ ~108,750 81,103 479,946
1952.195,749 15 „ ~108,750 86,999 566.945
1958.176,291 15 ~ ~108,750 67,541 634,486
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £8543 .. 643,029
Tax overprovided, £26,535 .. .. 669,564
1954.200,686 15 p.c. =108,750 91,936 761,500
The improvement in the 1954 profit figure
was actually less than it looked, for
reasons already stated. Still, the £200,686
was 27.7 on capital as against 24.3, 27,
26.3, 23.1 and 21,2 p.c, back to 1949. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s net earnings were
equal to 13.2 p.c., of which the 15 p.c.
div. called for only 7.2 p.c.
Although the 1954 consolidated bal-
ance-sheet figures are not strictly compar-
able with the previous year’s, movements
therein were encouraging so far as pros-
pective earnings are concerned:
Consolid’d
Balance-
f Parent Only sheet.
1952 1953 1954.
Paid capital £725,000 £725,000 £725,000
Reserves .. ~ 566,945 634,486 761,600
Overdraft .. .. 430,817 355,208 360.681
Creditors* .. .. 802,285 703,471 758,004
Final divs. .. 65,250 65,250 65,250
£2,590,297 £2,483,415 £2,670,435
Freeholds ~ 287,864 322,128 354,784
Plant, etc. .. 121,276 114,178 141,197
Stocks .. ~ 1,196,840 1,245,958 1,202,220
Book debts .. 842,165 716,926 888.697
Cash. etc. .. 142,652 84,225 83,587
£2,590,297 £2,483,415 £2,670,435
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
The more-or-less liquid surplus (£990,519)
was £67,339 stronger despite net addi-
tions of £32,656 to freeholds and £27,019
to plant, etc. Book-debts increased
by £171,771. Stocks (down £43,738)
dominate the financial structure, and


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
J/Ae ALL-BRITISH
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD.,LONDON
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445, BU 3446, BU 1409.
gteuxirt:
£
From
25/-
to
65/-
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokce.
TO MATTHEW HENRY WITHERSPOON
late of Morris Street Gilgandra. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE MARY WITHER-
SPOON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 826 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
by the 15th day of November ,1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. HILLIARD &
BERRY, Solicitors, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, Agents for Petitioner’s Solicitor,
Mr. E. E. GIBSON, 12 Burke Street.
Concord West.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Fail]i in iJic
Ir
__ '
Our athletes have gone across to Vancouver to
compete in the British Empire and Commonwealth
Games. We have cheered them on and wished them
well. •
What a dull place the world would be without
sport! It spices the experience of more serious living.
It teaches men to train for the prize—and that in itself
is a great additive.
There are those, I know, who say that Australians
give too much attention to sport. It was said of ancient
Greece; but the Greeks also gave to the world a
culture that has left its mark on all the civilisations
that have followed.
In play, as in work, all things are relative. We
can look upon sport as good and wholesome, so long
as it does not interfere with the task of nation-building
that Destiny demands of us.
The significance of this trans-ocean flight of the
cream of our athletes goes far beyond their testing, in
all friendship, with the best that other countries can
produce.
i
They are emissaries across an ocean studded with
a history that links their country with the great North
American continent.
The Pacific above which they have flown was
spanned by air for the first time by a crew captained
by their countryman, and my friend, the late Sir Charles
Kingsford Smith, in 1928.
Their journey has taken them close to Karakakooa
Bay, Hawaii, where the illustrious Captain Cook,
proclaimer of their country, fell at the hands of hostile
natives in 1779.
You see the pattern I am attempting to trace—of
heroic exploration 175 years in the past; of daring
adventure that lengthened the sky lanes a mere quarter
of a century ago ; of Australian prowess taken into
arenas of the world by men and women in our own day.
These are strands in our fibre. Across the Aus-
tralian years, courage has gone into every twist of
accomplishment. And we, with whatever works and
talents we bring to it, are still forming the weave.
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and , household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
appear at the lower of cost or
market price, less reserves.
There is nothing at the
moment to suggest an early re-
cession in turnover, though com-
petition is likely to remain
keen, and sooner or later mar-
ginal increases in wage-rates can
s
be expected to bump up the pay-
roll total.
The market, which doesn’t
expect the 15 p.c. div. to be
interfered with, prices the f.-p.
£1 shares at 525. 9d. (495. 6d.
a year ago) to return 5.6 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 40s. 3d.
Motors, Ltd. (Adelaide)
r pHIS Adelaide co. holds the
A South Australian franchises,
including Broken Hill, for
Morris, M.G., Rolls-Royce,
Bentley and Hudson cars, Morris
commercial vehicles and Elec-
trice refrigerators, etc. An off-
shoot, Kingsway, Ltd,, handles
Wolseley and Riley cars and
Nuffield tractors. The Nuffield
agency is the money-spinner—
Morris passenger-cars are among
the most popular and best-
selling on the market.
The co. kicked off in 1911 and
joined the ’Change list in 1925.
Shareholders had a lean time
during the slump and war years ;
dividends averaged only 2 p.c.
for the 17 years from 1930 to
1946. Then the post-war boom
and the dollar problem, which
put the emphasis on British
vehicles, changed the picture
completely. For the eight years
to the close of last accounts divs.
averaged 23.4 p.c. and reserves
shot up to £308,393, which is
over three times the size of paid
capital.
The board attributes the slip
in turnover in 1952-53 and
1953-54 almost entirely to im-
port-restrictions ;
New Vehicle
Sales. Deliveries.
1951- ..£2,834,824 2708
1952- . . 1,866,379 1687
1953- . . 1,425,192 1364
According to an estimate made
by the co.’s sales department, at
least 2000 deliveries were lost
last term due to non-availability
of Nuffield vehicles.
The drop in gross profit
(£266,389) for the year to April
30 last was £25,983, but savings
in exes. (£169,315, down £30,973)
and tax (£21,500, down £3500)
left the net result £8490 stronger
at £75,574;
Re-
April, Profit. /—Dividends \ serves.
£ £ £
1950.. 92,416 22J p.c. = 22,500 1 Q 0 aflQ
To staff fund, £5OOO . . ) yy > 80 »
1951.. 98,216 37ip.c. = 37,500 )
To staff fund, £7500 .. i- 151.835
Other provisions, £ 1250 .. J
Underprovsn. taxation, £9156. .142,679
1952.. 127,475 30 p.c. = 30,000 )
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. f 229,904
Other provisions, £250 ..J
1953.. 67,084 30 p.c. = 30,000)
To staff fund, £2500 .. }■ 264,238
Other provisions, £250 .. J
Profit sale assets, £3981.. 268,219
1954.. 75,574 30 p.c. = 30,000 1 Qn Q oqq
To staff fund, £5400
The £75,574 was equal to a
juicy 75.6 p.c. on capital as
against 67, 127.4, 98.2, 92.4 and
42.7 p.c. back to 1949; but the
div. was kept at 30 p.c.
Principal balance-sheet move-
ments were additions of £49,401
to freeholds, £46,300 to stocks
and £32,737 to book-debts:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 264,238 308,393
Creditors and
deposits .. 75,274 58,313
Tax provision .. 42,355 32,644
Other provisions 3,852 5,856
Staff funds, etc... 3,191
Final divs. . 17,500 17,500
£506,410 £522,706
Freeholds and
machinery, etc. 108,816 158,952
Stocks .. .. 97,526 143,826
Debtors .. .. 61,697 94,434
Cash and shares .. 238,371 125,494
; £506,410 £522,706
The co. used surplus profits and
drew on cash-balances for
£112,877 to provide the neces-
sary finance, as well as to reduce
the outside debt by £26,672.
Each £1 share is backed by
81s. Bd. in net tangibles, of which
495. lid. is represented by net
current assets.
Import-controls are no longer
the main supply difficulty, and
demand for most Nuffield
vehicles is well in excess of pro-
duction, despite record output
in the U.K. Motors’ board
expects increased shipments in
the next few months, and the
British Motor Corporation’s big
expansion programme at Vic-
toria Park, Sydney, should
eventually mean better supplies.
At April 30 the co. had firm
orders for 600 vehicles on its
books, and there is no immediate
prospect of an easing in demand.
So the co. seems set for another
prosperous year.
At 525. 6d. the £1 shares yield
11.4 p.c. on the 30 p.c, div.
basis.
Great Western Consolidated
Operating near Southern Cross
(W.A.), Great Western is the
youngest and biggest unit in the
Western Mining Corp. group. It
got its 30,000-ton-a-month mill
going in November, 1952. For
the year to March 31, 1954, it
reports a profit of £14,445, after
allowing for interest charges but
not for a loss of £9379 on sale
of equipment. The mill treated
420,129 tons ore for 51,1430 z.
fine gold, an average of 2.43dwt.
per ton.
The bulk of the feed came from
the opencut, where the prospectus
put proved ore at 790,000
tons, averaging 3.4dwt. It is not
yet clear whether the drop in
grade is due entirely to dilution
from opening-up of the quarry or
partly to other causes. Under-
ground the prospectus claimed
there is 500,000 tons ore, averag-
ing s.sdwt. On No. 8 level 55ft.
of driving recently disclosed
values averaging Bdwt. over a
width of 19ft.
Including a p. and 1. debit of
£5066, the co. had spent
£2,772,536 at March 31 last.
That exceeded paid capital by
£1,004,536, which was financed
by £315,000 on a long-term
housing loan and the balance
(£689,536) by bank overdraft and
advances from W.M.C. Over
the last few months the price of
the f.-p. ss. shares strengthened
from ss. 3d. to 7s. 2d. in the
market.
To help offset the effects of
the drop in metal prices upon
net earnings. Broken Hill South,
and the other big silver-lead-zinc
producers at the Barrier
(N.S.W.), have quickened the
volume of mill-feed, with a con-
sequent increase in the output of
metals. The South’s production
figures for the 53 weeks to July
3, 1954, compare with the cor-
responding period Of the previous
year as follows:
1953. 1954.
Ore treated, tons.. 292,970 355,290
Lead, tons* .. 34,544 40,767
Silver, oz.* .. 1,980,705 2,328,892
Zinc, tonsf .. 27,920 33,210
* In lead concentrates,
f In zinc concentrates.
There was thus a lift of 18 p.c.
in the quantity of lead in the
lead concentrates and of over
36 p.c. in the quantity of zinc in
the zinc concentrates. No
estimate of profits for the year
to June 30 last has yet been
broadcast. Average London
spot-prices per ton of lead and
zinc for the period were £592.5
(down £59.5) and £574.9 (down
£513.4) respectively. On July 7
the respective prices were £595.5
and £577.5 per ton. The co. paid
an interim div. of 3s. per ss. share
on June 18 last, same as for the
previous year. For the 12 months
to June 30, 1953, it paid 6s. per
share, or 120 p.c. from profits
equal to 140 p.c. on capital. The
price of the scrip, which had
dropped to 51s. 6d. during 1953,
stood at 655. 3d. last week. The
strengthening of the market was
due partly to bigger output and
partly to the improved outlook
for metal prices following
announcement of the new stock-
piling programme in the U.S.
* * «
To provide funds for a geolo-
gical and geophysical survey of
likely oil-drilling sites on its
1650-square-mile permit in the
Sepik district. New Guinea, near
the Dutch border. Enterprise of
New Guinea Gold and Petro-
leum, N.L., is to offer those on
the register at July 31 next
1,056,100 new Is, shares at a
premium of Is, each, pay-
able in full on application,
Information about the geology
of this area is scanty to
date, and any opinion as to the
probability of striking flow-oil
will remain speculative until a lot
of expensive work has been
done. It is about 24 years ago
that the co. first applied for an
oil-prospecting permit over the
area in question. Issued capital
now stands at £105,610 in
2,112,200 f.-p. ss. shares, which
recently fetched around 9s. each
in the market.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The exhibition of the Society of Arts
and Crafts at the Education Department’s
Gallery this year included an interesting
display of Danish pottery, china and
glassware, a loan exhibit by the Lapidary
Club featuring Australian stones in some
variety, some modern furniture, and a
colorful display of pottery in other lands
lent by Mrs. Eve Felstead. The clever
use of local materials by members of the
society was seen particularly in the basket-
work, in which Miss D. Walker lacquered
watsonia-stems to make a log-basket in
rich brown colors, and Mrs. Helen Sten-
ing used palm-stems for striking effect
in a fruit-basket and a huge log-basket
(Mrs. Stening also showed what could
be done With pumpkin-seeds for decora-
tive effect on a modern lampshade).
Lavender-stems were woven into a
fragrant handkerchief-box by Mrs. A.
Vivian, who lined the box with lavender.
Motif most frequently used in pottery
and printing was the aborigine, and Mr.
K. Vetsch, with his handsome plate of
dark-blue and white, introduced a relief
from the hackneyed earth-colors. There
were some highly original designs in the
modern manner in the pottery by Alexan-
der Nagy, and the colors used by him
—gunmetal, tobacco, burgundy, etc.—
were also contemporary in feeling. Miss
Nell Holden’s exhibit included some
attractive blue-and-white slip-work, and
she also entered an impressive vase for
the Soderberg prize (the winner of which
had not been announced when this went
to press).
* ☆ *
A toast to Australia was proposed by
Mrs. Walter Hess, wife of the German
Ambassador to Australia, during the
luncheon she gave at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club to celebrate the second anni-
versary of their arrival in this country.
“We are so happy here,” said Mrs. Hess,
“that we would never wish to leave.”
Madame Louis Roche, wife of the French
Ambassador, was one of the luncheon
guests, who also included Mrs. R. J. F.
Boyer, Lady Plowman, Mrs. W. Ehlers,
Mrs. E. Tronser, Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs.
Leo Lister, Mrs. Frank Louat, Mrs.
Gordon Johnston, Mrs. Allan Williams,
Mrs. I. Heidgen, Mrs. Stephen Roberts
and wives of many members of the
Diplomatic and Consular Corps.
* & *
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Nash, returned
from their honeymoon at Palm Beach,
were present at the opening night of the
Borovansky ballet, when Mrs. Nash
wore a ballerina dress of white broderie
Anglaise with an emerald-green stole.
Emerald-green also formed a dramatic
trimming for the black dress worn by
Mrs. Bill Kendall, who, with Mrs. Ruth
Watt, in black, and Mrs. Lennox Bode,
in grey brocade, looked very decorative
in one of the boxes. There was a con-
spicuously large number of ballerina-
length dresses worn, which seemed not
only appropriate but very practical too, as
long dresses trailing on the stairs create
quite a hazard.
☆ * *
The Camellia Show in aid of the Bush
Book Club at David Jones’ George-street
store has been arranged very artistically,
so that one seems to enter a natural
camellia-garden and then go “indoors,”
where original table-settings and arrange-
ments of camellias are on show. Rare
china-vases and ornaments have been lent
for the committee’s use in the flower-
arrangements, and several Paul Jones
camellia paintings have been fitted in as
a background. Supervision of the exhi-
bition is in the hands of Miss Barbara
Knox, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland, Mrs.
Dundas Allen, Mrs, Gordon Russell and
Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse. It will remain
open till July 31.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is safe to say that Sydney will have
an added spark of brightness now that
Mrs. Margaret Preston, one of its best-
known painters and most delightful per-
sonalities, has returned from her five-
months’ travels abroad with her husband.
Their journeys took them to the Near
East, and from her luncheon-talk to the
Society of Women Writers, which
sparkled with descriptions of many places
with rich Biblical names, it was clear
that much fortitude and liveliness of
spirit would be necessary if one were
to enjoy to the fullest that part of the
world.
To reach Petra, for instance, one jour-
neys for nearly 200 miles guided only by
telegraph-poles, for there is no road, and
then travels for l\ hour by horseback.
The sight of this city in its rock-valley,
glowing red when the sun strikes it, was
-well worth the effort, said Mrs. Preston,
who described it as “majestic, cruel and
incredibly beautiful.” Mrs. Preston gave
two pieces of advice to those who might
think of travelling in those parts: First,
you must stay at the best hotels, you
simply can’t do it cheaply; second, it is
far better to have a man with you, as
unescorted women come in for far too
much embarrassment.
* ☆
Particularly lovely flower-arrangements
for this time of the year were a feature
of the At Home of the Ladies’ Auxiliary
of the Royal Empire Society, when Lady
Berryman spoke on “Some Impressions of
the Royal Tour,” Hostesses for the after-
noon were Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, in mid-
night-blue velvet, and Mrs. C, R. McKeri-
han, in black velvet, and guests-of-honor
included Mrs. R. R. Dowling, wife of the
Flag-Officer-in-Charge, H.M.A. Fleet,
Mrs. J. R. Adams, wife of the U.K.
Trade Commissioner, Mrs. C. M. Croft,
wife of the Canadian Trade Commis-
sioner, Mrs. J. A. Malcolm, wife of the
N.Z. Trade Commissioner, Begum Rah-
man and Mrs. K. C. Sengupta.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mannequins at the fashion-show being
arranged for the afternoon of Wednesday,
August 18, by the Black and White Ball
committee in aid of the Royal Blind
Society will include three of its attractive
members. They are Beth Campbell, Jen-
nifer Chapman and Mrs. R. H. Berrick.
The clothes to be shown are by “For
You” fashions, and the parade is to take
place at the rooms of the Royal Blind
Society.
Margaret Ludovici, elder daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. Hector Ludovici
and stepdaughter of Mrs. A.A. Ludovici,
of Lane Cove, recently announced her
engagement to Eric Shields, of Condobo-
lin, at a party at Prince’s. Her fiancé is
the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. E.
Shields of Haberfield. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
A caddy of Ceylon tea and a correct
measuring-spoon were presented to the
Lord Mayor, Aid. P. D. Hills, when he
opened the interesting exhibition of tea-
pots at the antique shop of Stanley Lips-
combe during the week. Fascinating
items from many private collections were
shown, including a curious Old Bow tea-
pot with a double spout, dated 1755, and
lent by Dr. K. Kirkland, who was present
at the opening. Another interesting ex-
hibit was a teapot made in the intricate
shape of the Chinese character for hap-
piness, and of historical interest was a
tiny teapot made by convicts for the
first woman to be married in Parramatta.
The exhibition is being held in aid of
the N.S.W. Crippled Children’s Society.
☆ ☆ ☆
A pleasant musicale was held at the
Forum Club last week when, with a
background of the paintings of Douglas
Pratt, at present on exhibition there, a
programme was presented by Mrs.
Howard Berlin, who herself sang and
who was assisted by Mrs. John Pres-
grabe, Mrs. Arthur Stender (violinist) and
Mrs. Nell McElhone (accompanist).
* ☆ *
It is hoped that by the end of next
year it will be possible for a single opera
company to be established which will
combine the activities of the opera move-
ments in Victoria and N.S.W. Dr. H. C.
Coomb§, chairman of the Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, said after a
meeting of all those concerned last week
that the A.B.C. orchestras would not be
free until the end of 1955, but that dis-
cussions indicated that there would be
then a sound basis for a joint enterprise.
The idea is that a single performing com-
pany should play seasons in each State,
and that the two organisations should
concentrate within their own States on
training, audience-building and country
tours.
MELBCUBNE
Some 200 members of the Australian-
American Association, women’s group,
sat entranced at Giro’s when guest-
speaker Mrs. D. Cherry spoke on Ameri-
can cookery. Mrs. Cherry, lecturer on
Home Economics at Peabody High
School, Trenton, Tennessee, is here under
a Fulbright grant. In comparing cook-
ing in Australia and America, Mrs.
Cherry said Australian women weighed
their ingredients, while American
women measured theirs. Cooking term-
inology also differed ; in the U.S. scones
are biscuits, biscuits are cookies, dry
biscuits are crackers. A tin there is a
can, a jug a pitcher, and food is broiled,
where we would say grilled. Butter in
the U.S. is very expensive, so house-
wives use margarine for cooking. But
evidently eggs are not; at any rate,
Mrs. Cherry spoke of using seven in one
recipe.
In the absence of president Mrs. R. G.
Casey, Mrs. W. W. Killough welcomed
the guests, among whom were Mrs.
Henry Stebbins, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, Mesdames Harry Grover,
Richard Cheney, John Mair, Claude
Deem, W. Cook, E. Watts and Miss
Dorothy Brookes.
ir ☆ ☆
In his showing of watercolors at the
Victorian Artists’ Society’s gallery in East
Melbourne Alastair Grey has chosen
widely diverse scenes —the Mosque of
Fatima at Akaba; Port Adelaide;
Narooma ; Todd’s Landing, Sydney. On
opening-day the artist’s wife received
visitors to the gallery in a trim grey suit
and japonica-pink melusine cloche, Mrs.
George Ogiivie was smart in a saxe-blue
velvet coat matched with a beret. Others
noted were Mrs. Bryan Money, Mrs.
Frank Allen, Mrs. V. Peck, Misses D.
Bazzard and L. Rae, Joy McGlashan, Lois
Howse, Anthea Leckie and Vi Tivey.
* ☆ ☆
At a dinner-party given by Mr. and
Mrs. Victor Roche, of Toorak, in honor
of the U.S. Army Attache, Colonel John
Middleton, and his wife, the hostess
used scarlet, pink and white camellias
from her garden to decorate the recep-
tion-rooms. Her ballerina frock of
flame nylon-net had one bare shoulder
and a drape across the other. Mrs.
Middleton’s choice was a formal gown
of black net trimmed with fine-frilled
black lace; her matching black stole
was also frilled with lace. At the party
were Mrs. Henry E, Stebbins, U.S. Con-
sul Given Parsons and his wife, Col. and
Mrs. John Sullivan (he is U.S. Army-
Air Force Attache), U.S. Naval Attache
Capt. R. A. MacPherson and Mrs. Mac-
Pherson, Assistant U.S. Army Attache
Major James Clark and Mrs. Clark,
Lieut, and Mrs. H. Brumsted, Mr. and
Mrs. Len Dooling and Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Allen.
# V V
Debutantes, wearing individual white
gowns and carrying star-shaped bouquets
of blue and gold flowers tied with car-
dinal ribbon, made their entry through
the doorway of a thatched cottage of an
English “village” before making their
curtsy to the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and Lady Brooks at the Blue
and Gold cabaret-ball held at St. Kilda
Town Hall by the De La Salle College,
Malvern, Old Collegians’ Association.
Lady Brooks’s gold-brocade gown had a
full, swirling skirt and a swathe of the
material forming a cuff across the top
of the fitted bodice. The Vice-Regal
party and official guests were received
by the president of the association, Mr.
Frederic L. Funston, and Mrs. Funston.
Among the guests were Dame Mary
Daly, the Consul for France, M. Gerard
Sirot, and Madame Sirot, and the Mayor
of St. Kilda, Cr. W. E. Dickeson, and
Mrs. Dickeson.
Mrs. Gordon Pope, who came from
Athens eight years ago to make her home
here, is the younger daughter of Mr. E.
Coty, owner of the newspaper in Chios,
and Mrs. Coty. Mrs. Pope met her hus-
band when he was an officer with the
Red Cross in Greece, and they married
in Athens. A well-known mannequin
who does a great deal of work for charity,
she is ticket-secretary for the dinner-
dance for the Sutherland Homes for
Children Auxiliary, to be held at Giro’s
on September 3. Mrs. Pope will also be
a mannequin in the fashion-show which
will be a feature of the function. John
Warlow photo.
Last year, while Melbourne was cele-
brating the Queen’s Coronation, eight-
year-old Andrew Blunden persuaded his
father to take him for a night-flight over
the city to see the lights. What he saw
inspired him to design a print which he
entered in the Leroy-Alcorso contest, and
it won him a £25 student-prize, with
royalties. Sydney artist Douglas Annand
won the £3OO first prize, with royalties,
and both these prints, with those of other
prize-winners, were shown in the spring
and summer fashion collection of Leroy.
Andrew’s colors, cafe au lait and tiny
splashes of yellow, red and green on a
black background, were incorporated in
a launderised silk frock which had a deep
heart-shaped neckline, short sleeves and
fully flared skirt.
For early spring days there were trim
suits of silk-and-wool and of cotton-
tweed. Full-length coats of lightweight-
wool and a new brocaded cotton were
other smart features of this show. Most
of the cotton frocks have been treated
to stay clean, and a welcome sight was the
pure-silk frocks. One of the loveliest
featured a deep-pink rambling-rose de-
sign mixed with green foliage on a white
background. Outstanding was an after-
noon-frock of glazed-pink orlon with a
permanently knife-pleated bodice and
skirt. A gold silk-and-wool fitted coat
was cut on the lines of the summer-coat
worn by the Queen on her Australian
tour.
☆ * ☆
A couple of days after the end of the
present showing of Allan Bernaldo’s
watercolors at the Athenaeum Gallery
the artist and his wife will load the
station-wagon which took them through
England and the Continent some years
ago, and will set off for Adelaide, where
Allan will give an exhibition. The
Athenaeum collection features many
lovely flower-studies as well as land-
scapes painted in Italy, France and Spain.
Among those at the opening were Mrs,
W. Plowright and her daughter Lorelle.
* *■ *
When well-known ballerina Marie
Agnes Cumisky was married at Christ
Church, St. Kilda, to Walter Alexander
Young, two fellow-members of the
Ballet Guild were her bridesmaids.
Marie, who is the youngest daughter of
Mr. J. Cumisky, of Gardenvale, and the
late Mrs. Cumisky, wore a powder-blue
brocade gown with the nylon-net skirt
falling in a small train. Her matching
veil was held by a tiny Tudor cap, and
she carried a prayer-book and cream
orchids. The bridesmaids, Elizabeth
Hamilton and Anne Ellis, wore blue-
grey faille frocks with overskirts of
blue-grey and gold net, and tiny Tudor
caps. They carried posies of blue and
gold flowers. Robert Eastgate, of the
National Theatre Drama Company, was
best man and Leslie, the bridegroom’s
younger brother, was groomsman.


Public Notice
I, ALEXANDEOS YALSAMAKIS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Alexandria, Egypt,
and resident for five years in Australia,
now residing at 188 Victoria Street,
King’s Cross, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
TO LAURENCE JAMES formerly of
Guest House Jenolan Caves in the State
of New South Wales Laborer but now
of parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that
your wife SHIRLEY ELAINE JAMES has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 24th day
of August 1954 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs. —LAWRENCE & WARNS,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
INTERNATIONAL SCULPTURE
The trunks of the trees in
Holland Park on this summer
day are black with soot and
damp. The foliage of oak and
ash and chestnut hangs green
and heavy, shutting out the grey
light. Rain threatens all over
London. It falls.
Holland House, once sparkling
with memories of Fox and Pitt
and Byron, lies in fire-blackened
ruins. It was bombed. Only
small boys bouncing on bicycles
and throwing the deck-chairs at
each other relieve the desolation.
Perhaps it is significant that
the first exhibit in the interna-
tional show of sculpture in the
open-air also looks as if it has
been bombed. It is the bronze
skeleton of a woman by
Ossip Zadkine, through whose
hollow carcass half a dozen metal
spines prod out like the steel in
reinforced concrete.
Jacob Epstein shows a pair of
marble pigeons, stylised and
solid. Ernest Barlach’s “Holy
Warrior” is a stylised angel
riding on a wolf, not a bad piece
of animal-sculpture though one
would hardly compare it with the
Graeco-Roman marble pig in the
Uffizi in Florence nor the
Renaissance bronze copy of it
in the market-place. A stylised
wolf is less than a living wild
boar, with all his marble bristles
on end.
Emilio Greco has a fat girl
sitting miraculously in mid-air,
supported only by her big toe —
a most unsettling piece of bronze.
Wilhelm Lehmbruck’s “Thinker”
is an elongated bronze lady
rather like a sculptured
Modigliani, not without grace in
her long lines —but in Paris, chin
on elbow, massive, the earth
itself setting out to conquer the
stars, broods the mighty Rodin.
The “Thinker” has been done
for all time.
Barbara Hepworth’s “Image”
is a stone copy of an Egyptian
sarcophagus. Henri Laurens's
“Bather” is like a fat walrus.
Henry Moore’s “Draped Reclin-
ing Figure,” a lady trying to
sit up, like some queer heroine
emerging from mythology, is
bizarre and faintly comic.
Mestrovic’s “Prince Marko,” a
small bronze which was doubtless
a rehearsal for a larger work,
showing a Tartar horseman on
his horse, is compact,
rhythmical, forceful and, in its
present shape, dwarfish. Georg
Erlich’s “Two Sisters” are
charming in a realistic bronze.
Elisabeth Frink, F, E. McWilliam
and Rosemary Young show
emaciated skeletons, like the
Zadkine which opened the
exhibition; and, among odd-
ments of ironware (there is,
oddly, no wire-work) Lynn
Chadwick’s “Inner Eye” is a
sheet of iron with a hole in it;
like a ship’s porthole, through
which peeps a jagged crystal
surrounded by a serration of
metallic nerves.
The only Rodin included is a
tall bronze figure of a man with
his head hacked off, as ferocious
in its way as the decapitated
geese in the palace of Versailles
whose heads were chopped off
by the blood-maddened mob of
the Revolution.
Well, Rodin sometimes did
that sort of thing, mostly to get
the effect of the torsos of
antiquity ; but the Musee Rodin,
one man filling a whole park and
a gallery, as Norman Lindsay
could fill a gallery in Sydney, is
the quietest and the strongest
spot in Paris. His strength is
jagged enough—the lean and
hungry slaves ; the great portrait-
heads shouldering out of the
marble as if Balzac and Victor
Hugo sprang straight from
earth’s core of rock: group after
group where the rhythm is all
from the thrust of the elbow
instead of the flowing curves of
the body on which Greek
sculpture was based —but the
force is everywhere controlled
and, in the curved pieces like
“The Kiss,” incomparably
gentle.
The headless figure is not
typical of Rodin; but it is of
this tortured exhibition.
The English are rebuilding
Holland House. They are
indomitable. It is not possible
to look at these sculptures, after
Rodin, without concluding that
European art has also been
bombed—and must |be rebuilt
from the ground up. For a feel-
ing of life, for energy and joy,
there is ten times as much fun in
the small boys on their bicycles!
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Herbert McClintock, showing
at Tye’s Gallery in Melbourne,
has turned from surrealism and
the unconscious to plain, matter-
of-fact illustration in his latest
pictures, and his mild vein of
satire puts him in the class of
what, in these days, is called the
social-realist. “Sleeping Judge”
depicts a Solon in wig and gown
and apparently on duty in a state
of profound slumber. One of
the most enigmatic pictures shows
a bearded old sundowner in the
foreground and an indubitable
portrait of Henry Lawson, and
a very good one, in the back-
ground, complete with whiskers.
From the artistic viewpoint, Mr.
McClintock gives himself away
in his landscapes, which, having
no illustrative interest, are
dependent on their aesthetic
interest.
Stage and Music
Stern and Galliera
Isaac Stern was soloist with the
Sydney Orchestra under Alcio
Galliera at the Town Hall in
Tschaikowsky’s Violin Concerto.
Watching this master fiddler
sweeping without fuss through
the mass of complexities which
stud the first and third move-
ments, and especially those of
the long, involved cadenza in the
opening spasm, it seems strange
that such a pother marked the
work’s debut 73 years ago—
Hansluck, the vitriolic critic, said
the instrument was “yanked
about, beaten black and blue.”
Actually the work is only a few
degrees less sensuous than Men-
delssohn’s Concerto. But its
themes are full-blooded, its
rhythmic patterns of fascinating
variation, its colors bold, and its
slow movement, which Stern
played with a most opulent tone,
is a flood of glorious melody.
The finale was a headlong rush
by all concerned, and both soloist
and orchestra captured its ebul-
lient spirit.
Galliera —leonine head and in-
tense concentration —set the stan-
dard of the night’s work with a
reading of Brahms’s Variation on
a Theme of Haydn (Chorale St.
Anthony), which blended grace-
fulness and rhythmic strength
and was crowned with a splen-
didly-built-up climax.
Ravel’s “Daphnis and Chloe”
Suite No. 2, which represents the
peak of the Frenchman’s mastery
of delicate orchestration, gained
considerably from sensitive play-
ing by the woodwinds. The Syd-
ney orchestra seems to have a
special affinity for this work;
their performance of it never falls
below high standard.
The other orchestral work —in
the three of them Galliera de-
pended with complete justifica-
tion on his memory—was
Kodaly’s “Hary Janos” Suite.
This is one of the most satisfying
of contemporary works. Richly
scored, each episode in this
musical tale of a champion liar
has pungent wit. The one in
which Hary recounts how he
defeated Napoleon—as cleverly
devised a piece of musical fool-
ery as has been written this cen-
tury —was played with an en-
gaging abandon.
■ijf
Borovansky Ballet
There was more marble than
mist about the “Sylphides” with
which the Borovansky Ballet
opened its season at Sydney
Empire; a kind of hard clarity
not altogether satisfactory in a
ballet which one prefers as some-
thing dreamed rather than some-
thing seen. And, although the
sharp outlines of the perform-
ance brought out the personality
and dancing of Kathleen Gorham
and the classical qualities' of
Peggy Sager, it also showed up
some flickering unsteadiness in
the corps de ballet.
Paul Grinwis, as the Musician,
“ Won’t be long now, sir!”
whirled and spun his tormented
way through the five movements
of “Symphonic Fantastique” and
through the dancers, Greek
shepherds, executioners,
monsters, witches, ghouls and
vampires who people them. Kirii
Vassilkovsky’s choreography is a
dramatic mass of movement and
Constable s costumes and scenery
match it very well.
Aima Mariya as the Beloved
who haunts the Musician througn
his tortuous dreams flitted across
the stage like a lovely ghost,
although it was hei night for
acting rather than dancing
The night concluded with Le
Beau Danube, of which the
Borovanskys have almost made a
signature-piece. They did it as
well as ever, with the added
distinction of Kathleen Gorham
and Raoul Celada telling the
story of the Street Dancer and
Hussar as graphically and
delightfully as it has ever been
tQ ld.
* * *
tte ai g
James Workman s Eternal
Night” maroons three men one
a morally strong leader, the
second a “sissy-pants,” as sneer-
ingly described by the third, a
bullying, potential murderer
for more than a year in a hut on
an Antarctic island. It is a first-
rate opportunity for tight-as-a-
drumhead drama, and the cast
at the Independent Theatre
(Sydney)—Gordon Glenwright
as the leader, Barrie Cookson as
“sissy-pants,” and Ron Whelan
as the murderer—go at it
hammer-and-tongues.
There could be more of the
hammer—the pounding, inevit-
able mounting of suspense as
minds and morals deteriorate
under, first, the natural, human
tendency to turn trivialities into
hatred and, second, under the
blow to their hopes when the
relief-ship is prevented by a
blizzard from taking them off.
And there could be a bit less of
the tongue, particularly when,
after a tense scene, the author
inserts a wisecrack clever
enough, but shattering the effect
of the tense tableau on the stage.
The situation calls for
restraint; a sort of restrained
savagery written with the tip of
an icicle; a more gradual,
intense, inevitable building-up of
suspense as feelings and condi-
tions mount to the climax of
murder. Unfortunately, when-
ever the cast achieves a peak of
intensity, it is flattened by
bellicose acting and the
irrelevant wisecracks.
There must, of course, be
periods of coasting, of compara-
tive calm. But the play fails
to maintain in the background —
crouched, as it were —the;
elements of hatred and near-
despair, so that there is little
continuity of effect between the
peaks of excitement and the
valleys of normalcy.
The best scene is the last —
the murderer, with his victims
frozen-stiff in the now-heatless
hut, lashed first with disbelief of
what he has done, then crazed
as the horror of it floods back
to him in his own hopeless
position,
***
“The Seagull”
There wag a cious wis .
d about the production of
Chekhov ’ s «jhe Seagull” by the
st. p au p s College Mummers at
d University; although
e^otions Chekhov deals in
must be theory t 0 so young
a cast tbey were so enac t ed that
tbe aud j ence was stabbed, at the
end> tQ volleys of sho cked
applause .
eternal hexagon is the
basis of the p i ay _ Se mion loves
]y[ as b a w b o loves Kostia who
j oves Nina who loves Trigorin
wbo j oves Kostia’s mother and
Nina — an£ j this imbroglio d-la-
j^usse begets inevitably a battery
of scalding hates, a kind of
supe r-daisy-chain which is, in
fact, so unfunny that the pro-
gramme felt obliged to remind
the audience that “it was in the
irony of tbg contras t between
tbe enorm ity of the tragedy and
tbe pe ttiness of his own charac-
ters that Chekhov saw the
come dy,”
With quite unnecessary
modesty, the cast was anony-
moUSj but whoever played
Trigorin made a little gem of his
pass at Nina. He shed his
a uthor’s fame like a coat and
shambled before her, a jelly-
bones, wearing his writer’s urge
like a pair of surgical corsets
and flaunting his real weaknesses
i n a theatrical bid for her pity,
A similar little gem was Irena’s
control of her dread of losing
Trigorin. Abruptly, even in her
anguish, something warns the
ageing actress that a pinch of
flattery is worth tons of ranting
and begging. In its swift insin-
cerity, the transition was almost
obscene ; one moment she was
the demented mistress, the next
a literary critic gushing sugared
hosannas: “Your writing is
genius. Only I understand you.”
And Trigorin decides not to go!
Whoever played Kostia knew
how to tread the razor-edge be-
tween Slav despair and bathos,
and also had the gift of solilo-
quising in a commendably hum-
drum way—as though it were a
workaday human habit —and
thus preserving the play’s awful
reality.
The others were good, too,
and perhaps, after all, there was
something in the anonymity of
the cast; the play prospered by
the absence of any individual
tour de force to spear the fabric
of its mood There were a few
faults, of course—62-year-old
Sorin was made-up to look like
Methuselah, while the Russian
foible of calling each other by
a bevy of names was befuddling
enough without adding first-
scene lighting as dark as a
Siberian winter —but, generally,
it was a most intelligent perform-
ance and a surprisingly mature
one.
G.P.
Talkies
“Decameron Nights”
Hollywood hasn’t made as bad
a fist of Boccaccio’s opus as
might have been expected. The
stories are not salacious but
typical examples of the easy-
going attitude of the Middle
Ages to the matrimonial rela-
tions. Boccaccio is supposed to
be telling them to a group of
ladies who are sheltering in a
castle from a foreign invasion,
and he appears in various guises
in all the stories along with the
lady he is allegedly courting.
The robust approach would
have been more effective if Joan
Fontaine had looked and acted
less like a graduate from a ladies’
college, and if Louis Jourdan
hadn’t looked and acted like a
sentimental film hero. Those
discrepancies, however, can be
• forgiven for the magnificent
architecture in color, and for the
interiors and furniture supposed
to be of Florence but actually
Spanish.
• • • •
“So Big”
This Edna Ferber story of life
in a Dutch farming community
near Chicago in the early years
of this century transfers to the
screen with some distinction.
The story unfolds naturally, it
has its roots in life, and the
atmosphere of a rural com-
munity, with its narrow views
and its eternal struggle to keep
its head above the economic
surface, is well recorded.
The film owes much to a highly
intelligent portrayal, by Jane
Wyman, of the girl who, brought
up in a wealthy home but left
poor when her father dies bank-
rupt, faces with courage her
changed condition, marries a
battling young farmer (Sterling
Hayden) and, when he dies, runs
the farm successfully.
The director, Robert Wise, at
times gives undue emphasis to
sentiment, but never to the point
of cloying. At Sydney Esquire.
“The Diamond Queen”
(Sydney Palace): Incredibly
feeble story about fabulous
Eastern jools and a white Eastern
Queen.


Serenade
by Vance Palmer
WHAT a relief for
McConachie on his
long round to reach the
oasis that was Colinton!
Here was something like civilised
living at last, after nights spent
camping* on muddy waterholes
or at fugitive station-holdings
where the men went sour at the
sight of a uniform and there
were no women but the sulky-
eyed gins who hung like shadows
around the kitchen,
Colinton was a spot of green
in the expanse of drab mulga-
ridge and dried-up plain. Pepper-
trees drooped in cool abandon
oyer the pisd homestead; the
circling night-paddock looked
like a stretch of rolled turf;
roses and oleanders made a pink
blur in the garden which was
filled by pipes from the lagoon.
And there were usually a couple
of pelicans moving about like
swans below the windmill.
But for McConachie the most
inspiriting thing about the place
was the company. Rigid through
twenty years of close adherence
to dignity and duty, he could
relax with the Coulters. Man
and wife, they always received
him as an honored guest, a
dashing upholder of the law’s
majesty, whose visit they had
been looking forward to for
months.
“Back again, Sergeant! The
old piano’s hardly had its lid
lifted since you were here last.
We’ve a couple of cattle-buyers
from the Georgina coming in
for the evening meal; this
makes it a party.”
Drinks in ' Coulter’s little
office on the veranda, a lively
meal with each trying to cap the
other’s stories, and Lottie, the
colored girl, hovering bright-
eyed around the table ; then a
chance afterwards for McCon-
achie to exercise his hearty
baritone in the sitting-room to
Mrs. Coulter’s accompaniment.
He usually went to bed feeling
pleased with the world, with
himself, with his job.
nTHIS time, though, as he rode
in through the stock-route
gate the silence around the
place struck him like a smell of
death. No stockmen around the
yards, no movement at the
saddle-room or store! A hush
even seemed to have fallen over
the blacks’ camp across the
creek, and the tin hut where
Lottie’s father, the old half-
caste, was usually pottering
about with the hammer and a
bundle of skins.
McConachie slipped from the
saddle and turned his horses
loose, then strode down the
track looking about him with
puzzled eyes. Not a flutter of
life in the kitchen, not a, sign
of Mrs. Coulter’s sun-hat among
the oleanders!
“Oho!” came a voice from
the cool cavern of the dining-
room, “Come right in. No need
for comp’ny manners this time.
No one here but me. Sole
guardian of . . . broad estate,”
A little pot-bellied fellow had
raised himself from the sofa and
was limping out in his slippers,
blinking at the daylight. It was
Swasey, who had once been
tutor, and now looked after the
books and the store. He was
bleary-eyed and unshaven, and
his loose-fitting trousers were
open at the wrong places.
“No one but me,” he repeated.
“Monarch of all I survey. Will
be for another week or so till
overseer gets back from railhead.
Monarch of all I survey—lord
of fowl and brute.”
McConachie looked him up
and down with a jaundiced eye.
“Where’s the Boss and Mrs.
Coulter?”
“Off to Sydney. Caught
plane at Tarcoola after fats
trucked. Homebush first and
then bright lights and frivolity
. . . Nothing important to see
’em about, is there, Sergeant?”
“No, nothing important. Just
routine.”
“Then come and have a drink.
One diversion left —sea of
solitude. Books —read every-
thing I could lay my hands on.
Wireless babble-babble of
youngsters and caterwaul of
women. Whole country’s gone
dead since muster —even men
away herding weaners at the
back. Not a soul dropping in
to give me a chance show hos-
pitality.”
He led the way to the office,
shuffling along in his broken-
down slippers. Plainly he had
been making free with the over-
proof rum, for his eye was
wavery and his voice inclined to
wander from a high treble to a
croak. There was an open bottle
on the desk and a few empties
underneath it, while a sticky
glass was lying upset on a pile
of papers. Swasey’s hands were
shaky as he took it up and began
to pour.
“Say when, Sergeant, and
don’t say it too soon ... No,
what th’ hell am I doing ; chuck
that out and I’ll get some clean
glasses. Hey, Lottie!”
He went to the door and
called across the landing. As if
she had been waiting in readiness
Lottie emerged from the kitchen
bearing a tray. There was a
half-shy, half-roguish gleam
in her eye as she greeted
McConachie. An attractive
young half-caste, floppy-breasted
yet springy of figure, she had the
poise of one secure in her own
little world and looked as if she
were continually chuckling to
herself over some secret joke.
“Well, Lottie?” said McCon-
achie, “Having a dull time now
the family’s away?”
She put the glasses on the table
as carefully as if she were
handling eggs.
“Not too dull. I can always
find plenty fun.”
“Fun?” he quizzed her,
“What, with no men about?”
Her curious, defensive glance
fluttered from the Sergeant to
Swasey and back again.
“I don’t want no men. They
only make more to cook for.
The youngsters come over from
the camp.”
“H’m. Only the youngsters?”
“Lottie’s learning to read,
aren’t you, Lottie?” put in
Swasey with a grin. “Got a
reg’lar library in that little room
of hers off the kitchen. Fairy-
tales, thrillers, touch of romance
—love among the roses. Taught
you a lot, haven’t I, Lottie, in
the last few months?”
He winked at McConachie and
raised his glass. There was the
hint of a shabby satyr in his
pale, red-veined eyes,' his
flickering leer, his small, gross
figure in its baggy trousers.
McConachie felt a spasm of
aversion. His eyes were on the
girl and he fancied he caught
a challenge in the flying glance
she flung over her shoulder as
she took the tray and went off
to the kitchen.
“Great girl, Lottie,” Swasey
chuckled, refilling the glasses.
“Jus’ enough dark blood put a
bit of devil into her. Her old
man—decent old coot. Got a
tin hut the boss built for him
this side of the creek, and keeps
to himself. Knows Lottie’s all
right with me; doesn’t try to
put his oar in.”
VET all was not quite well in
-*■ the clover-patch. Swasey
began after the first few nips to
confess to McConachie the
trouble he was having with some
of the young fellows at the camp,
particularly Tommy the Hawker.
Gradually the good-humor went
out of his voice; his eyes took
on a strained glitter; he kept
glancing warily toward the door.
It was plain, in spite of his
swagger, that Tommy was very
much on his mind. An ugly
customer, this half-caste! Flashy
in his silk-stripe shirts, a big man
among the bucks and the gins
who hung around his cart.
Undoubtedly he had designs on
Lottie. Loafing about the creek-
bed when she went down for a
swim, sneaking over to the store
at night on the pretence of
wanting to buy flour or beef.
“But he slips off quick when
he catches sight of me. Yes, no
guts to meet man face to face.
Put fear of God into him the
other day when I took down the
shotgun.”
He pointed gleefully to the
weapon in the rack as if it were
his trump-card. McConachie’s
tone was dry.
“You’d better go easy with
that sort of threat, Swasey. I
don’t want any trouble here.”
But his eyes were looking out
of the window to where Lottie
was bringing in an armful of
wood for the heap.
Drinks and more drinks, with
Swasey forgetting his lurking
enemy and growing at once
expansive and intimate. The
countries he had visited at one
time or another, from Malaya
to Peru! And the way he had
outmanoeuvred all kinds of
foreigners who tried to balk
him —usually in the achievement
of a rendezvous with some be-
witching siren who had given
him the glad eye. Most of his
stories were eked out with winks,
nudges in the ribs, little throaty
chuckles. What a devil of a
fellow he had been before the
malice of Fate had anchored
him at Colinton with a gammy
leg!
“Ah, well, pitcher that goes
too often to well, eh? . . . Take
what you want from life —then
pay without whining. Nothing
to be said agains’ that, is there,
Sergeant?”
McConachie listened to him
with a sour hostility, thinking of
the good evening he had
anticipated with the Coulters,
thinking also of the girl in the
kitchen. She had put a clean
blouse on when she came over
to serve the evening meal,
arranged her hair so that not a
wisp of it strayed. The table
was set in the usual elaborate
way, and the roses were fresh
from the garden. Across the
spread of linen and polished
silver her eyes met McConachie’s
with a touch of mischief.
“You’re not a policeman all
the time, are you?” they said.
“You won’t go telling the boss
and missus I slum my work
while they was away.”
But the sergeant was pre-
occupied with Swasey’s
innuendoes and the way his
paw reached out tp her hip
when she passed him.
That evening was a disturbing
one for McConachie. As soon
as the table was cleared the rum-
bottle appeared again and
Swasey was off once more on
his amorous adventures, his
pale eyes growing brighter as
his speech thickened. It was as
if the Coulters’ absence had
taken some pressure from his
mind and allowed him to expand
into the dimensions of his real
self. He” pushed back his chair
in dramatic crises and leant
over the table towards McCon-
achie ; he lowered his voice to
a whisper and deepened it to a
thunderous growl; he sank back
into his seat and collapsed into
spasms of laughter that set the
glasses rattling.
McConachie watched him
with a distaste that turned his
face to granite and his eyes to
glass. Shoddy old blatherskite!
As full of pleasure in his own
past devilries as a tick with
blood. And yet (he wasn’t used
to this steady pegging) a secret
envy was nagging at McCon-
achie. Compared with this
dazzling record of scoundrelly
adventure what a tame life he
had himself led. Forty-two, and
never a real break into unknown
country! No leaping of fences,
Not a single deviation from the
dusty and direct path of duty,
Passion? Only the shadowy
ghost of it. Roaring out Tosti
to the empty night while Mrs.
Coulter peered at the music
through her glasses.
"DOTH his imagination and his
-L* senses were being quickened
by the rum. Beneath the
maundering roll of Swasey’s talk
he was conscious of Lottie’s
movements in the kitchen —
scraping of plates,, rattle of
knives and forks in the sink,
passage to the stove for more
hot water. Now she was placing
the cups and saucers on the
dresser, now wiping down the
table. Creak of a wire door and
she was passing out to her
little room at the back, perhaps
lingering a moment to look at
the moon and the glow of fires
across the oreek
“That big lumbering swab of
a half-caste,” Swasey was
saying. ‘‘That snaky-eyed
bnndle. I’ll get him. Yes 111
get him. No talk. No bush-
lawyer barneying about right
buy flour or beef. Jus’ charge
shot in that fat backside his
firs’ time he comes philandering
roun’.”
He had returned once more
to Tommy the Hawker. Moving
across to the curtained window
with a crouch he peered out as
if he saw his rival staring in
from outside. McConachie said
with a heavy growl ;
“Cut that talk out, Swasey.
You go outside the law and I’ll
run you in quick.”
‘ ‘Eh ? What’s that ? ”
“Yes, run the pair of you in.
I’m here to come down heavy
on that sort of violence.”
Swasey looked at him muzzily,
resentment showing in his eyes.
“My affair, Sergean’. Not
law—personal. Matter of honor.
Lottie . . . She looks me defend
her.”
“Rot! Lottie can look after
herself. From what you say
she knows her way around.”
But Swasey’s humor had
leaked away and he was
inclined to be quarrelsome.
What was the sergeant getting
at? Who had a right to look
after Lottie if he hadn’t?
Hadn’t she turned down every-
one else since she first came
there? Hadn’t she refused the
Coulters’ offer of a trip to
Sydney, working things so that
she could stay with him?
McConachie got him off to
bed at last in his room across
the passage, leaving him asleep
in his clothes with a blanket
thrown over him. Contempt
and rancor filled him as he
looked down at the recumbent
form —the open mouth, the
squashy features, the lumpy
body that had no more shape
than a sack of potatoes. What
could make an upstanding girl
like Lottie throw herself away
on a burnt-out old gabblemouth
like that! His gift for flattery,
was it?—his flow of words. Or
was it just another proof of the
wantonness of women, their
incapacity to resist any kind of
male creature when they were
left alone with him? Women!
No getting to the bottom of
them. One thing in daytime and
another at dark,
'THE homestead slept. Light
from a late moon shone
on the silvered roofs, the strip
of garden, the circling night-
paddock where a solitary horse
cropped at the short grass,
xiny fires still flickered in the
camp acroS s the creek, but no
sound came f rom the blacks
strewn aro und them. It seemed
as the qu j et 0 f t he surround-
ing i eagues of mulga were
seep i ng j n like a tide and taking
possession of the place,
Suddenly there was a hoarse
human yet not human,
Sw ; sey had wa kened with a
start and was sitting up in bed
staring int o the dark. Was it
hi§ n i ghtmare that had forced
{Continued on page 34)
THE WATER-JUMP
Those ambling red mountains, the Hereford bulls, are
holding
Court no longer, and the crowd’s breakers flow
To the ebbed hush in the ring, where the chestnut gelding
Turns to the water-jump at the Royal Show.
Hooves of the past, galloping, thunder from cover
As he comes like a torch, relighting the old pride
In Thunderbolt, Starlight, and the Man from Snowy River
Clattering down the fabulous mountain-side.
At his rider’s hint on the reins he gathers his haunches,
Rises in air clean as a gull from the sands,
Floats over hedge and water, races, and clinches
The blue ribbon. The cheering roars from the stands.
A tawny flame on the sky, his leap cruises
For ever in light. Yet what of the curvings that mark
Flights unseen over waters where darkness imposes
On the womb’s, the mind’s, parabolas—the leaps in the
dark?
Tireless, hurdling the aeons at hardly a canter.
Taking Pacifies with strong, invisible stride,
The mind races, the nerve-sired, the phantom hunter
That we, the horsemen of the night, break and ride.
One dark water it cannot vault: the mystery
Of its leap from the chestnut’s arc to the still zone
Of Flight, from the seen to the viewless—the mastery
Conjuring blackness of Death from a sun-blanched bone.
A.C.T.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


Quality Chisels by
You can take
a real craftsman’s pride
in quality wood chisels by Titan.
Every Titan chisel is
skilfully designed , a perfectly balanced,
precision-made tool , essentially rugged
and possessing strength to spare .
Ask your storekeeper
to show you the fine range
of these quality tools
now available.
Titan chisels
are genuinely forged
from special quality
B.H.P. Steel .
Completely
Guaranteed
A
i -'Ji
m
ImM,
m
■ m
am
Illustrated above from left~~
Socket Butt Bevelled Edge
(Catalogue No. 316)
Registered Plain Edge
(Catalogue No. 101)
VC.
Firmer Bevelled Edge
(Catalogue No. 136)
Write today to Dept, “T”, P.O. Box 86A, Melbourne ,
for your free Titan illustrated Catalogue.
THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD., TASMANIA


Now! ONE Brushing with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM
REMOVES ENZYMES
that cause Bad Breath
and Tooth Decay!
Only the Colgate way
does all three!
CLEANS YOUR BREATH
while it
CLEANS YOUR TEETH
and STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
w.
yyyyy
NOW COLGATE'S ACTS INSTANTLY
ON DECAY PRODUCING ENZYMES!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream instantly
removes enzyme-producing Bacteria, and it is enzymes that
produce tooth decay acids! But —if you really want to
prevent decay, be sure to follow the Colgate way. Scien-
tific tests showed that the Colgate way of brushing the
teeth right after eating stopped more decay for more
people than ever before reported in all dentifrice history!
ONE BRUSHING WITH COLGATE’S
STOPS BAD BREATH INSTANTLY!
Your very first brushing
with Colgate’s each morn-
ing removes up to 85% of
the bacteria that cause bad
breath! Yes, scientific testa
prove that Colgate Dental
Cream stops bad breath
instantly in 7 out of 10
cases that originate in the
mouth!
BRUSHING TEETH AFTER EATING
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year
period showed a startling
reduction in tooth decay for
those who brushed their
teeth with Colgate’s right
after eating! In fact, X-rays
showed no new cavities
whatever for almost 2 out
of 3 people.
COL
BUY THE BIG
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE
AND SAVE 1/sd.
Gives You a Cleaner, Fresher
Mouth All Day!
AMERICA’S lARBESI—AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST—
THE WORLD'S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
•v
ight iip one of these superb English cigarettes of
' pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smooth-
ness of that pure Virginia tobacco —and you will
have formed a lasting preference for Rothmans
De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in
the most distinguished homes
and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted . f
as England’s luxury cigarette. » I L M.
Tißemi
England’s
LUXURY CIGARETTE
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF
in
D
e
2r.
ROTHMAN
3/7 for 20
The Night
DAD LEFS FOR CHINA
By MABEL WALN SMITH
“T HERE came a time when
f we children said “To hell
y j with it!” and took charge
of Mum and Dad. Not
until then did we have any real
rest from being moved round
the world. They trundled us---
blithely and on the slightest
pretext throughout my childhood
—from one State to another in
America when I was too small to
remember, and when I was big
enough to shoulder my own pack
they started trekking us across
oceans to foreign countries.
Folks say it takes money to
live abroad. But that isn’t quite
true. Slums can be found any-
where.
Dad was a little too ripe for
World War 11, as he put it, but
persistence and the use of a
neighbor’s chicken-coop as
model for what construction
work he could do finally got
him into the Seabees. To push
a man out of the war who had
fought so hard to get into it
didn’t seem right, so they kept
Dad busy either handing them
bricks and nails and hammers
and boards and cement and
things, or else moving him from
unit to unit. But mostly moving
him.
And that just suited Dad. “I’ll
get you youngsters to China,
even, before I’m through,” he
used to say after he received his
discharge. “There’s nothing like
travel for education.” Which
explains why my sister and 1
never had much chance at school,
The first time I really knew
we had a Government was when
Dad came tearing into the
caravan where we were living at
the time on the outskirts of a
New Jersey town, mad as a
hornet and waving the evening
paper. “They’ve let that man
Truman be President again! ” he
shouted. Then he flopped into a
chair and began to read the print.
Mum and I found the axe and
chopped up wood for an outside
fire to fry our supper sausages,
Later, sitting round the fire, she
told us what a handsome good
man our father was, “It’s just the
Government gets him riled up,”
she said. “We’ll be moving on
soon.” She sat there as if wait-
ing for a sign or something.
She got the sign all right,
My sister, who is older than I
am, remembers it was Dad’s
speech on politics down at the
ball-ground that netted us the
invitation ,to leave town that
night. “He’s always against
everything,” she whispered to
me, frowning. She was a baby-
sitter and often our sole support.
An authority in my eyes.
pay-off from the Armed
Services came the day we
were settling into an abandoned
railway-carriage near enough to
New York City for Dad to go
in and out. He had gone into the
city to borrow some tools from a
friend so we could build-in
furniture and put up shelves ;
he came running back out to us
with four steamship tickets in
his hand. “The baby goes free,”
he explained, referring to my
brother in Mum’s arms. “We’re
off to County Cork, Molly me
darling!” and he waltzed Mum
over the grass and pebbles. “Isn’t
that something you’ve always
been waiting and praying for?”
“But a house,” she gasped,
“We were to put that money—
when it came —into the bank . ..
Toward buying a house! ”
“Sure now, but there’s plenty
of time for that. We’re all well
and strong. How could I deprive
you of a glimpse of your own
Ireland? Why, I’ll get you all to
China even before I’m through.”
He laughed, and fished out of
his pocket the receipt for a small
Army tent he had bought.
I could see Mum was pleased.
“Now we’re traipsing over the
oceans,” muttered my sister be-
tween clenched teeth next day >as
we went up the gangplank on to
the cargo-ship. She was lugging
my baby brother, and I had all
our clothes in a bundle on my
back. Mum was kissing the
neighbors goodbye. Dad was
down in the hold stowing the
tent.
We crossed the Atlantic and
put the tent up outside Dublin.
Mum was soon full of laughter,
and busy riding us all over the
countryside in buses and
jaunting-cars, distributing the
gifts she’d brought from
America to her many relatives.
We grew fat on pork and potato
and onion-stews simmered in a
big iron pot hung over a peat-
fire outside their clod houses.
Dad was busy studying politics.
The afternoon he made his
speech he stood up straight and
tall on an old soap-box in
Stephen’s Park . , . “So you see
you’re nothing but a pawn to
England,” he proved to them.
“Even the De Valera you let
dictate to you is a Spaniard ...”
His Irish audience was an
active one, used to doing their
bit at demonstrations. First they
agreed about England; next
they cursed Spain; and then
they reached for rocks. “Who
are you to be joining in our
fight?” they shouted. “You dirty
furriner . . . Ireland does her
own fightin’.”
They brought him home to
Mum with both eyes blacked and
his coat tom. They had travelled
via the pubs and brought a few
bottles along “to celebrate.” A
wake, possibly? Anyhow, they
crowded into our tent, opening
beer, and toasting each other’s
health and slapping backs until 1
thought Dad had done us proud
rather than become the meddling
disgrace that he was.
Mum took all this stoically
enough. She never was surprised
at anything that happened to
Dad. Her gaiety bubbled qiiickly
up to match her fellow-country-
men. I gleaned that we would be
moving on again. But I couldn’t
figure out just when or how,
because Dad’s pay-off money was
almost cleaned up.
TT’S true, however, that the
faeries do take care of the
Irish. Mum’s relatives, who had
never meant anything to our
finances before, suddenly meant
something now. One of them—
the uncle who owned a pigfarm
—died leaving her his fortune.
A cousin brought Mum the cash
in the very sock in which it had
been stored.
The keening-parties were really
what broke Mum’s nerve. They
surged up from the country —
wave after wave of wildly-
vocalising aunts, nieces, nephews,
cousins, grandparents, dogs and
chickens —and were joined by
their lighthearted Dublin friends.
Our tent was the obvious place
to set the big table piled hign
with cold boiled hams, roast
ducks, suckling pigs, saffron
cakes and berry pies. The bottles
were piled high underneath. The
shillelagh-sticks were kept in
hand, poised for action. It was
three days before the beer ran
out, and everyone had been either
helped into hospital or carted
home by the constables who had
charged in on the first day de-
manding order, but had changed
their minds and stayed for the
festivities.
My sister and I crawled out of
hiding to find our once-proud
brown-top a ragged canvas mess
with one pole missing.
The deadly calm after the
awful storm didn’t last long. I
came home one evening to hear
a commotion in the space
curtained-off for our parents’
room. My sister was near the
front tent-flap, scowling.
“What’s the matter?” I asked.
“They’re fighting,” my sister
said. “Mum’s hidden the sock of
money.”
My father’s voice rose with
horror. We heard him saying,
“You wouldn’t be back-tracking
now, Molly, would you? Not
just returning to America, buy-
ing a house and settling down!
We’ve got money .. . our chance
to really go places. There’s
Africa, Australia, India . .
Why, I’ll get the youngsters to
China even before I’m through.”
He must have won out, in a
way, because our next stopping-
place proved to be Australia.
TI7E crossed a lot of water
before we reached Sydney.
It was a rough voyage jammed
into an ex-trooper carrying one-
thousand immigrants, so I
remember nothing much except
my heaving insides. When we
stepped off at Woolloomooloo,
however, I was all right. We
were travelling light—i.e., with-
out the tent —and I said to my
sister, “Where’s the money that
was left over from the bill-
paying?”
“In Mum’s shoulder-pads,” my
sister said. She is always prac-
tical and speaks to the point.
I soon found out she’d talked
with people on the ship who
knew about Australia, and she
had her mind all set on what we
would do upon arrival. That’s
why she was able to rush Mum
right off in a taxi to a business-
agent, and get themselves shown
some small properties. By
evening we were proud owners
of a mixed-shop in Pyrmont, a
good substantial dockyard district
of Sydney.
Our “mixed” stood, a modest
70-year-old mid-Victorian house
wedged comfortably in between
others on Clarion-street, in this
new country where chain-stores


Missing Friend
WOULD REGINALD ANSLEY, a son of
JOHN HENRY HOWLAND ANSLEY, or
anyone knowing his present whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Auckland, New Zealand.
FLY WITH
THE LEADER
IN WORLD
AIR TRAVEL
Fly 8.0.A.C. from
Australia to:
Indonesia, Malaya,
Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan,
Ceylon, India,
Pakistan,
Middle East,
Africa, Europe,
Great Britain,
U.5.A., Canada,
Central and
South America,
Bermuda.
AH/AU
;2=
flfr
TO
MM
fgb
Across the world, fast frequent 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird services by fully-pressurized
4-engined airliners link every continent.
Flying 8.0.A.C. you travel in superb
comfort. Prompt courteous attention
is paid to your every need. You enjoy
a standard of service resulting from
8.0.A.C.’s 35 years of flying experience.
And you fly British all the way !
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help—no charge I
Reservations and information from all Travel
Agents and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTA3, TEAL AND S.A.A.
have not yet put an end to
private enterprise. The front
downstairs room was the shop,
stocked with a myriad of
groceries, a tiny milk-bar, and
a glass showcase of jaw-joys,
jelly-beans, and aniseed-balls.
We had downstairs-upstairs
living quarters. We plugged up
the rat-holes, put doorknobs on
to the doors, painted the
“I’ve got a bulge in me bassoon .”
kitchen, and managed to buy
enough furniture to sit on and
sleep on. My sister learned
from the visiting social worker
how to make a cream-and-green
color-scheme, and she hooked
rugs and placed oasis-like clumps
resembling tufts of grass on our
splintery floor.
At last! We had a sure living,
and a home. Everything solid
and substantial; nothing air-
holey, rattling, and tent-flappy.
We acquired a radio which we
tuned -in on the nine - thirty
kindergarten session each
morning. Thus we started my
baby brother in to school. He
could already sing “Waltzing
Matilda.”
DYRMONT you can’t put
into print. My sister knew
about slums and what warm-
hearted, colorful and loving
places they’re supposed to be.
She’d read about the tree that
grows in Brooklyn and the harp
that thrives in the South.
But Pyrmont isn’t one of
them. There are no trees
except a few dreary scrubs
(oleanders or palms) in back-
yards, and there are no warm
loving hearts you’d notice. The
hearts, if any, keep well hidden
inside the dingy houses. The
tramcars rattle past your front-
door and it’s keep your baby off
the track if you don’t want him
run over —no daring rescues take
place here. The bus pulls out
if it can before the passengers
all crowd on,
Pyrmont is most noted,
perhaps, for its bashers. They
start out about ten-o’clock each
night to do business all over the
city and the most lurid articles
on robbery, crippling, or death,
in next morning’s paper attest
to their handiwork.
I doubt if Pyrmont bashers
can be duplicated anywhere in
the world. Bashing thrives
naturally in our district, where
wives improvidently buy eggs
one at a time rather than by
the dozen; where dirty-faced
kids come hammering on your
closed shop door demanding a
loaf of bread or else ; and
where youths appropriate the
rent-money to swagger their
girls into the milk-bar for a
chocolate-shake while their Pop
downs his pay at the pub.
Pyrmont has its good points,
though : It is not stuffy. The
sandwich-shop man down the
street is Greek ; the owner of
the vegetable-shop is Dutch;
and the motor-car repair people
are Maltese. Everyone works
separately. Yet, when need be,
we can operate together
perfectly as a composite whole.
And universal instincts of the
human race have been known
to ripen and bear fruit quickly
here, where in ever-loving
memory of the time during which
noteworthy pioneers arrived
under escort, the true Aussie
glorifies the word freedom.
Firm is the belief that any
man, no matter how bad
he may be, merits his liberty.
New Australians look kindly
upon this idea too,
T ET the Law battle its own
way.
Consider the incident of the
screaming bus.
This happened during Dad’s
carefree, pre-China days. He
was in the backyard doing a bit
of light hammering. I was in the
back of the shop sorting bottles
of soft drinks in readiness for
our weekend customers who
mix lemon-, orange- or passion-
fruit -ade with their plonk, when
there came such a shrieking,
honking and wailing as never
before poured down Clarion-
street.
Round the corner careened
the bus.
I rushed out front to see the
mad thing lurching crazily from
side to side. The windows were
broken, frenzied arms protruded
out of them, and yells poured
like smoke from the top.
It was plain to see what legal
battle was in progress: two
policemen had climbed aboard
at the starting-point. They’d
been doing their best ever since
to arrest a man. In this they
were up against the conductress,
the hus-driver, and the passen-
gers, who —although they had
never before seen the man —were
protecting him from arrest.
Naturally.
Clarion-street sprang to atten-
tion: Quick as lightning some-
one drove a nail in one
tyre—thus pinioning the bus to
where a climax could be
reached; a fruiterer heaved
rotten vegetables simultaneously
at the policemen —thus giving
their poor harassed quarry time
to sprint behind the pub,
disappear. The Greek then
dashed up with a tray of excel-
lent sandwiches for sale to the
victorious passengers, my sister
flashed our soft-drinks right on
to our front-counter, and I slid
our milk-bar into top-gear.
By the time the policemen had
decided to go quietly, the tyre
had been changed, and the full
bus had moved off, our entire
shop was about sold out. A
successful afternoon had been
had by all. Right here on our
doorstep.
li/TOSTLY we’re quiet enough
in Pyrmont though.
I entered myself at the good
free school —I was eleven years
old, and could manage these
lessons besides helping in the
shop; my sister enrolled for
night-classes at the near-by tech.
“We’re taking root at last,” I
thought.
were determine! to remain
in Australia. We would not
move again. But what about our
parents?
Mum was handling the shop
all right—her charm and wit
attended to that. Dad, so far,
was busy constructing himself a
sleep-out from old packing-cases.
It looked like a huge crib nailed
on to our sloping kitchen roof.
But when he got the sleep-out
finished, what?
Dad had started talking a lot
about China again. How she
didn’t bother to have any
Government, really . . . That
kept her a peace-loving country
all these years ... Wars
occurred there only when one
specific ruler tried to seize
control. Just like the Com-
munists and the Nationalists were
squabbling at present —a small
quarrel soon to be over. He’d
“promised his youngsters China,”
we heard him boast to a shop
customer, “and by Jeez if this
butter-shortage continued” he’d
“just up stakes and away. Take
his whole family to China and
be done with it!”
So far our movings had all
been preceded by Dad’s talk on
politics. And Dad considered
politics his life work. This
realisation was disturbing
because I remembered my grand-
father still doing his life work —
picking up papers with a stick —
when he was 98. Dad and his
speeches might last that long?
It boded ill for our settled future.
The time had come when we
must take charge of our parents.
Australia, even I could see,
was a new country in the throes
of trying for the third time to
fill her open spaces with
immigrants. The plan was the
Government’s plan and the
people were very sensitive about
the housing-shortage, the butter-
shortage, the salt-shortage, the
wool-prices, the high cost of
living, the transportation-diffi-
culties, the Sydney bridge-toll
and their inability to solve the
electricity and gas problems right
away. Was it safe to speak about
politics here?
My sister and I decided that
subject was taboo. We tried to
tell Dad so. He had taken to
spending his evenings at the Jolly
Sailor, drinking beer and betting
on the horses, cricket, football,
tennis, swimming, dogs and other
sport. We knew this because of
our failure to balance accounts
when we checked the till, and
because he came home tiddly
most nights.
But we didn’t know he had
taken up bashing until, one
night, he suddenly swung on us
with his fist there in the shop. I
jumped in front of our glass
showcase to save it and Mum
jumped in front of ne to save
me.
First thing I knew her front
teeth were scattered all over the
floor. And Dad was sprawled
on our floor, dead drunk.
■pORTUNATELY my sister
was at an age to attract truck-
drivers and luggage-handlers. So
we had no trouble getting Dad
down to the wharf and on to a
tramp-ship bound for China.
The ship was short-handed, and
the sailors assured us that when
Dad recovered he would be
welcomed and made to work his
passage.
He was still drunk and
unconscious, and the ship had
pulled out from the shore before
we started back home to look
after Mum.
“Your father was a handsome,
good man,” Mum said proudly,
when the near-by dentist we con-
tacted had fixed her up so she
could speak plainly again. She,
naturally enough, had nothing
against Dad for his violence, but
blamed the Governments
entirely. First Truman, next De
Valera and finally the butter-
shortage.
She gave a little sigh.
“They got your father all
riled-up,” Mum explained. “He
loved to go places, but he never
stayed anywhere for long. It
was the Governments. Seems as
if he just couldn’t take to any
of them.”
“Whatever it was, it kept us
moving,” I said. “But he’ll be
fine now. He’s on his way to
exactly where he always wanted
to be.”


w
A^
r.
\ *
:
:
I
//
V)
/
m
m
7
r
i
m
m
CLOTHSS
9| qoutowt
Übt/eaUfoAmflt...
~. here it is —an overcoat that is happy
in the rain; a coat that laughs at the coldest
weather, chills and influenza.
Stamina, pre-tailored winter- proofed
overcoats are made from double-warp, Pure
Wool Crusader Cloth woven specially for
extra warmth and long wear.
Stamina gives you a choice of three
styles ... Raglan, Box Chester, and Double
Breasted Polo, in popular, serviceable fawn or
grey tones ... at only £l7 19 6d»
ASK FOR
Siomiaa
SHOWERPROOF RAINCOATS
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITpTION
Established iB7B.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS!
tzszrjssr “rs— msbcjz.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of My Life by Frank
Harris, 3 vols. published 1926. —5862.
Young business lady requires com-
fortable single room; full board, or
breakfast and weekend meals; Mel-
bourne, southern suburb ‘preferred. —
5863.
Old letters or other documents
referring to the explorer John
McDouall Stuart, who crossed Aus-
tralia in 1862. All care will be taken,
and return of papers guaranteed.—
5864.
To buy copy of Alcatraz Island
Prison by J. A. Johnson; also copy
of Seven League Boots. —5865.
Information Sought
What is a fireball?
Ball lightning is a slowly moving
ball of fire which finally explodes. It
occurs when both the electric poten-
tial and the quantity of electricity are
great. Ball lightning can be produced
experimentally by sending the current
from a dynamo through water con-
tained in a glass. Ball lightning occurs
during a thunderstorm, mostly in wet
places along the ground, and only at
times when there are great downpours
of rain. It consists of a globe of
incandescent rarefied air and gas from
the decomposition of vapor of water.
The ruddy hue is due to the hydrogen,
this being characteristic of electrical
discharges through hydrogen. The
least current of air charges the
spherical shape or form.
* * * *
A few details about a bird known
as the plain-wanderer?
A terrestrial bird (Pedionomus
torquatus), it is about 6in. in length
and is peculiar to south-eastern Aus-
tralia. It is an inhabitant of open
country and is solitary in habits, asso-
ciating in pairs in the breeding season,
but not forming flocks like its rela-
tives the quail. When disturbed it
usually runs rapidly like the rail, and
is not easily flushed. Its flight is com-
paratively weak. Coloration is mottled
brown, with a black white-spotted
collar round the neck and a chestnut
patch on the breast. It stands upright,
so as to peer over the top of the
herbage. Its food consists of insects
and seeds. Like most Australian ter-
restrial birds, it is rapidly becoming
a rarity, being unable to stand the
combined attacks of shotguns, cats
and foxes.
* * * *
A few details concerning the flame-
tree ?
Known scientifically as Brachychiton
acerifolius, it is a large tree usually
found in coastal brush forests, and
confined to N.S.W. and Q’land. The
deeply lobed leaves are shiny, and
fall before the tree flowers. It pro-
duces masses of bloom of a vivid
scarlet; as the stalks of the bell-shaped
flowers are also colored, the result is
a flamelike display which suggests the
popular name. The flowering period
is very irregular; in some instances
the trees bloom for several consecu-
tive years, but an individual tree may
not produce flowers for several years.
It is also known as the “lacebark-
tree.” When the tree is full-grown
the bark is fully two inches thick,
and furnishes bark of a beautiful
lacelike texture. The fibre is prepared
by simple steeping, and is suitable for
cordage, nets, mats and baskets. It is
also a good material for paper-making.
The tow is of an elastic nature, suitable
for upholstering.
♦ ♦ • *
Some details concerning the legend
of “Pelorus Jack"?
“Pelorus Jack” is not a legend. He
was a Grampus griseus, or Risso’s
dolphin, about 14ft. in length and
bluish-white in color. For about 30
years he was known to seafaring men
in Cook Strait (N.Z.). During that
time he met practically every steamer,
day and night, on the Nelson-Welling-
ton run and escorted each one, leaping
and gambolling under the bows for
about 20 minutes. He was shot at a
few times until the N.Z. Government
stepped in and protected him by an
Order-in-Council. Sometimes he
would disappear for a few weeks, and
his reappearance was always hailed
with joy and relief. In April, ft 12,
he mysteriously disappeared and has
not been seen since.
How to propagate camellias, and
the best season of the year to carry
out the method?
Camellias can be propagated by
both layerings and cuttings. For layer-
ing, bend a low-growing limb, make
a slit at the “elbow” and place a
small stone in it, then fasten the
limbs firmly in the ground with a
wire staple. If the limb is short,
layer it in a box of soil containing at
least 25 p.c. of sand and well supplied
with drainage-holes. For cuttings, a
glass frame is essential with plenty of
bottom heat. Use small pieces of last
year’s wood 3in. to 4in. long, and
keep the soil moistened. The work
can be attempted at any time, but
success is very often limited,
♦ * ♦ «
CO What Australian wines are com-
monly fortified? (2) What types may
be regarded as perfectly natural?
(1) All sweet wines are fortified to
retain the sugar content. Unless wines
containing sugar are fortified to
35 deg. by proof spirit there is a
grave possibility of secondary fer-
mentation, the yeast attacking sugar
when in a solution of a lower alcoholic
strength than that mentioned. The
principal fortified wines are port,
muscat, Frontignac, sherries (sweet
and dry), and Tokay. (2) Perfectly
natural wines are claret, hock, bur-
gundy and chablis. Sauternes contain
a small degree of sugar, which is re-
tained by the presence of sulphur-
dioxide.
Brief Answers
L.M.S.: The Valley of the Sky by
Tarlton Rayment was first published
in 1936. It was placed first in the
British Empire section of a £4OOO
world competition... .H. A.: Under
the terms of the will of William
Baylebridge a definitive edition of
his complete works is to be published.
A.E.C.: Charles Haddon Cham-
bers was born at Stanmore (N.S.W.),
in 1860, and educated at Fort Street
school, Sydney. He settled in London
in 1882 as a journalist and playwright.
He had some success with his plays.
During World War I he was a leading
official propagandist. He died in 1921
without having returned to Australia.
. ...L.T.Y.: The trilogy in chrono-
logical order is Mo Burdekin, Bonanza
and The Pommy Cow. Sarah Campion
was born in England R.F.: Just
Let Me Be by Jon Cleary W.S.:
“Rolf Boldrewood” (Thomas Alexan-
der Browne) was not a Bulletin
writer D.8.W.: Xavier Herbert’s
only novel is Capricornia. .. .N.K.S.:
Katherine Mansfield’s poem “A Day
in Bed” was published in The Lone
Hand, October, 1909. The illustration
for the verses was drawn by Ida S.
Rentoul. There is an additional stanza
in the poem as published Collected
Poems (1923), as follows:
He’s like an awful dog we had
Who used to creep around
And snatch at things—he was so bad.
With just that horrid sound.
H.L.: Write “The Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book,” 4 Soho-square,
London, W.l H.C.W.: Sorry,
unable to trace any record of the
incident....G.W.W., H.W., K.B. and
others: You are correct. The subject
illustrated in the Seppelt advertisement
(Bulletin, May 26, 1954) is not
Usher Hall, Edinburgh, as stated, but
St. Peter’s-square, Manchester. The
error was traced back to the adver-
tiser’s London source of photographic
material... .A.E.S.: There is no cen-
tral organisation in Australia to which
inventions may be submitted with a
view to their exploitation J.W.W.:
Write E. T. Miller, Paling’s Building,
Ash-street, Sydney A.M.: Full de-
tails of prizes and conditions in the
“Anthology” Literary Competition
may be obtained by forwarding a
stamped addressed envelope to the
hon. secretary, Authors Anonymous,
Box 2427-V, Elizabeth-street Post
Office, Melbourne... .C.E.: Dissolve
H parts by weight of gelatine in 50
parts by weight of boiling water; add
H parts by weight of scraped tallow
soap, and 2% parts by weight of
alum, the latter to be put in gradually.
Place the fabric in the solution, lower
the temperature slowly to about 122
degrees Fahr., lift out the fabric and
allow it to dry. Pull it into shape
carefully as it dries G.H.A.: Write
Associated Australian Oilfields, Bris-
bane... .W.G.W.: The Criterion
Theatre, Sydney, was opened in 1886
with a performance by Emily Mel-
ville’s Company of Chassigne’s comic
opera “Falka.” The final perform-
ance was on July 13, 1935, the play
being “The Patsy,” which held the
record at the Criterion for length of
season E.C.P.: Herbert J. Rumsey,
Vernham’s Dean, 59 Adderton-
road, Dundas (N.S.W.) is the Aus-
tralian representative of King and
King, publishers of “King’s Index to
Unclaimed Money” K.F.: Write
International Correspondence Schools,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney A.A. :
Pure grape-spirit is added to all forti-
fied wine (sherry, port, muscat, etc.)
as an essential part of their produc-
tion. Spirit is not added to light
wines (claret, chablis, sauterne, etc.).
Small amounts of sulphur-dioxide are
present in all wines as a result of the
fumigation of casks by burning
sulphur, a necessary protection to
combat mould, wild yeasts, etc. The
amount of sulphur is governed by
law, but very few wines contain
sulphur-dioxide in quantities even
approaching the legal limit. In any
case the small amount present in all
types of wines is by no means injur-
ious to health. Even if an occasional
slight trace of sulphur is apparent to
the taste it would not be in excess of
the legal limit, as any such excess
would render the wine most objec-
tionable A.J.M.; (1) B’s bid was
quite correct. After all, the object is
to win the game, not a particular hand.
(2) There is no euchre rule against
“ordering-up” on a weak hand, even
if, as in B’s case, it is devoid of
trumps P.McK.: Write James R.
Lawson Pty., Ltd., Licensed Auction-
eers, 236 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
J.O.K.D.: Inquiry passed on to
to the contributor of the par.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.W.L.; Merely an idle dream....
J.S.: It arrived in the wrong month.
....E.H.: That bush-track is about
as well-known as George-street,
Sydney H.E.S.: “Glennon Castle’s
Apparition” will not “walketh thru”
our pages C.F.8.; It was withered
before it reached us T.F.: The
fact that you don’t like sunsets at
least makes you different from the
rest L.R.K.: The willow is weep-
ing away in the basket B.O.B.:
Take those slugs and snails away;
also the mother-in-law M.P.T.:
Not any more magpies for the present,
thank you K.N.C.: To describe
Hobart as “this point of globe as yet
untouched by poet’s pen” is a wild
overstatement... .J.8.M.: At the
moment our office is flooded with
waterfalls cascading all over the place.
... .C.W.: It reminded the Religious
Editor to try rum and goat’s milk.
G.D.: Send it to Downing-
street L.R.8.: It is a one candle-
power job... .C.W.C.: Still among
the novices C.F.R.: Sorry, but its
“imperfections” will not be “con-
doned under cover of poet’s licence.”
A.A.D.; We will join in a “ruddy
good cheer” for your musterers, even
if we can’t print your poem about
them R.W.: “Downunder” is
downunder H.G.R.8.: A frail
little effort... .R. 8.: “Water Beetles
skimming their way home R.J.8.:
Reads like almost any other hangover
poem... .K.S.: Spare us further
efforts... .Dom: Ogden Nash said it
better A.L.; Sixty years ago we
placed an embargo on parodies of
Paterson’s “The Man From Snowy
River” U.F.A. :One line then:
“Yowl ye, youths, yet yearn ye yes-
teryear’s yerked yams”... .M.W.S.:
Not this trip Z.M.: It wasn’t
worth answering M.D.S.R.:: Not
buying that rainbow P.R.W.:
There is something wrong with the
plumbing W.H.A.: What has
Australia done to deserve that?....
W.E.K.; Thank Heavens for the
dawn S.L.J.: A little of that goes
a long way... .P.J.C.: Bill is a stock
character who has appeared in the
limelight too often... .M.M.P.: It
almost made the grade R. 8.: “The
Man on the Invisible Bike” is pedal-
ling his way home.., .R.V.H.: A
little too precious E.T.8.: Re
quires more serious treatment
J. 8.: Try it elsewhere E.D.: Not
keen on yarns based on premonitions.
J.H.: The piano-tuner struck the
wrong note ■.. .N.H.8.: Nothing in it-
....C.L.: It might make an Abo.
paragraph G .R.W.; Both are below
publication standard, but not very far
below A.C.R.: Try to remember
that you are writing for an Australian
market now P.S.L.: Couldnt
stomach the funeral story, the other
gets nowhere Z.V.W.: You are all
at sea when you get outside the range
of your own observations and experi-
ences 8.D.H.: Only a faint imita-
tion of what we are looking f0r....
R.E.C.: Put it aside and come at it
again later... .H.V.C.: Only a
featherweight.


"Go outside! Go outside and eat grass!"
Lady Lights of Learning
By E. M. ENGLAND
50METIMES, when I see a
bevy of prim schoolgirls
proceeding along a sunny
street in “crocodile,” I
wonder what types trim the
lamps of learning for them now.
Are they wooed gently, cajoled,
beamed upon, or do they fear-
fully toe threadbare mats in inner
sanctums, as so many of their
mothers did thirty, forty, fifty
years ago?
There were some dour school-
marms in those days, and the
mummy of them all, to my know-
ledge, was the Oracle —a Golden
Rule in her own right, a fount of
wisdom, one whose memory will
never fade while one pupil of
hers survives.
She would come sailing along
corridor or quadrangle like a
galleon flaunting jet-black sails:
her academic gown. This con-
trasted well with a frock of grey
or lavender linen, and with her
cheeks, which were apple-rosy.
Bright little glancing dark eyes
she had, that missed nothing,
from a scrap of paper blowing, a
hair-ribbon askew, to a stray
needle left on a chair.
All must be set in order in-
stantly. Of the needle:
“Put that away in a suitable
place, my dear. If someone
chanced to sit on it, it might enter
a vital part! ”
She was greeted and followed
by a hush. As she approached,
conversation fell away, however
innocent. When she had passed,
every particle of atmosphere re-
mained suspended until the
momentum set up by her flying-
by had died away. Often, as she
flew, she barked out an order so
fast that it was incoherent,
drowned in the fluttering of the
black sail and the slithering of
flat-heeled shoes.
There was a force and purpose
about the Oracle which never let
up, which drove and drove,
pounding morals and wisdom
into us, instilling ethics, know-
ledge.
Not for one moment were we
grateful. All hated boarding,
though all loved sport and many
loved lessons. What we resented
was being torn from the homes
and folk we loved and being
thrust into an institution, even
one so renowned for learning as
Rodeney House, in which one
lived, ate and enjoyed leisure by
the clock. Friendships were
supervised, hobbies interrupted.
Girls unfortunate to have to
obey calls of nature nocturnally
were instructed to wake a mis-
tress who must accompany them
out of doors. Naturally, one had
to be in dire straits to dare beard
slumbering lionesses.
+ +
Girls dare not presume to be
ill. Should some luckless girl
summon the nerve to ask to leave
the classroom, she would be
sharply refused by the Oracle.
Once a girl in the throes of a
violent bilious attack turned a
jade-green before the old terma-
gant relented and permitted the
victim to leave —just in time.
Girls were not allowed to lose
things, either. If they did, there
was veritable hell to pay.
Herself a brilliant classical
scholar, the Oracle outlawed
dullness. A whole hour’s
lesson might be held up while
some dunce stood in her place
vainly trying to concentrate on
a point she probably did not
even understand. Stupidity was
obstinacy. No Jill was allowed
to be a dull girl.
Annual concerts were a joy in
an era when movies were in their
infancy. On one occasion a girl
—who later danced on London
stages —perpetrated a sailor’s
hornpipe attired in trousers.
There had been some previous
altercation about this costume.
The stage-mistress thought that
a hornpipe in skirts savored of
the ridiculous, and she actually
stuck to her guns.
When on the eventful night
the dancer came rollicking on to
the stage triumphant in tight,
bell-bottomed trews, the Oracle
rose from her seat —fan, pro-
gramme and evening-bag com-
plete—and rustled from the hall.
Punishments were curious:
For losing a school badge; hat
to be worn for one week without
any band.
For an untidy drawer: to pull
the drawer in and out for an
entire afternoon.
For sitting up in church instead
of kneeling (owing to faint-
ness): a huge dose of Epsom-
salts on arriving back at school.
For turning catherine-wheels
in the garden : standing in a
corner for the lunch-hour.
The rigorous rules laid down
did good to this extent: they
bred some rare daredevils who
must have been jolly nice
mothers for the next generation.
The crime-sheets which made
schoolmarms blench then would
bring derisive hoots of laughter
among mere teenagers now. To
wit, pellets of tea-leaves rolled in
brown paper, smoked under
playsheds or in the branches of
trees; climbing to the tops of
pine-trees along a drive ; talking
to town admirers over fences
out-of-bounds; riding day-
scholars’ ponies in a rear pad-
dock ; boarding the school swings
in pyjamas, forgetting the frame-
work squeaked hideously; the
heinous escapade of some glamor
misses who met Romeos from
the boys’-college on the opposite
hill at a witching hour and sailed
gaily off in the starlight on
bicycles built for one ; presenting
a foreign bishop (visiting) with a
prickly-pear fruit, which, unfor-
tunately, he ate; dropping but-
tons in the church plate ; smug-
gling books into church and read-
ing during the sermon.
The Oracle surrounded herself
with offsiders who were nearly
all as eccentric as herself. Some-
times a pretty young graduate
found her way into the cloisters,
was duly mobbed with younger
admirers and obeyed to the letter
—out of sheer goodwill. These
never lingered long, however.
One of the more usual kind
was a highly intelligent female
we knew as Cooee. She prac-
tically lived in a tailored grey
skirt. It was a beautifully-cut
garment, but we grew, oh! so
tired of that skirt. Each and
every day, summer and winter,
we had to gaze at it, until tucks,
panels, pleats, belt, every fleck,
every line of stitching, even the
stitches themselves, were known
by rote,
Cooee had a notion that
authority was best established by
a series of bellows, whistles and
shrieks. She had a high falsetto
voice at the best of times, and
contrived her sound-effects so
well that the whole building—
and it was huge—shook when
Cooee was out for some poor
wench’s scalp.
Cooee was eventually pro-
moted to headmistress some-
where —apparently on sheer
strength of voice. Handsome in
an aquiline way, of dashing
appearance, she was excellent at
games, and out of doors was
voted a “darned good sort.” She
never stole up on victims, for
instance, and never went out of
her way to trap the unwary when
off duty. And she had the splen-
did Nelson trick of turning a
blind-eye to what was not her
immediate business.
But for some reason —perhaps
an innate timidity—she had got
it into her classical-looking head
that she could only dominate by
force. She had pale-blue eyes
which protruded a little when
she was working herself up into
one of her scarlet rages. Rising
to her full height, which was con-
siderable, she would point a
shaking finger at the accused,
and yell at her a list of remarks
which soon became bywords in
the school. Toadies liked to
quote them, giggling, and others
with a sense of drama appre-
ciated them as exercises in
rhetoric.
They were stereotyped, how-
ever, since rage is no aid to in-
vention. Usually the overture
ran:
“Miserable creature! ” fol-
lowed by a first-movement of:
“You, yes, I mean YOU! The
little insect in the corner with
the black bow”
Crescendo, accelerando, rising
to an eldritch pitch that cracked
on the last note:
“Wretched worm! Microbe!
You have no brain. No brain.
Go outside. Go outside and eat
grass, like a cow!”
No parents, to my knowledge,
descended on the school to rend
Cooee apart limb-from-limb.
Boarders were careful what they
wrote in letters home. And in
holiday-time—well, holidays
were such a burst of freedom and
joy that all the wretched insects
and miserable objects forgot
even a shriek in a grey skirt
among the delight of familiar
faces and the beauty of the bush.
+ +
Moreover, even screams, atti-
tudes, provided some relief from
the deadly monotony. Victims
of the Oracle, shifting from one
aching foot to the other, might
be regaled by the trumpetings of
Cooee from across the quad.,
and realise that one had not
necessarily to be in torment all
alone.
The Oracle had contempor-
aries as grim as she was eccentric.
Among these was Miss Y., tall,
sallow, repellent, in whose estab-
lishment I was immured for one
term. Miss Y. kept a rough-
haired terrier, who was continu-
ally making his escape. Poor
Mike, could one blame him?
The only other male on the pro-
perty was a gardener, whom we
saw only at a distance, and who
was not, in any case, partial to
dogs.
So Mike used to go off occa-
sionally. Returned by some citi-
zen, he would be seized by the
collar while his mistress removed
her shoe. With this she would
belabor him before the
assembled school. The angry
scolding of the schoolmarm,
coupled with the yelps of the ter-
rier, ought to have caused some
ripple of reaction among the
young spectators. But they be-
trayed neither horror nor amuse-
ment. Girls simply stood round
silent and noncommittal, watch-
ing Miss Y. beat her dog.
Miss Y. was rigidly moral.
One legend was that two girls,
late for early-morning study,
had been so rash as to bound
into a shower together—and had
been expelled.
No sweets were allowed in that
school. We were always hungry,
and the temptation was almost
unbearable to borrow, beg or
steal just one bull’s-eye or milk-
h nW
cnocoiaie. ~
Once our shopping expedi-
tions were in danger of being
cut-out altogether. All
a reckless, an abandoned
was so indelicate as to enter
chemists shop and pure a e
baby s dummy pardon.
“comforter. -■
She was a jolly, rotund coun-
try girl from some outback
station, at her wits’-end for
entertainment. She went about
among her chums sucking the
dum . . . that is, the comforter,
and the chums were enchanted,
But someone on the staff wit-
nessed this unspeakable behavior
and reported it to Miss Y.
That evening we were assem-
bled for evening-prayers as
usual, and were given the usual
lecture on the day s misdoings.
Never will I forget the plump
girl being hauled centre-stage,
and the comforter, now conns-
cated, held aloft as Exhibit
Number 1.
It was a puzzling moment.
What was simply a childish
prank was paraded as though it
were an example of downriglit
obscenity. The culprit was held
up as an object of ridicule and
contempt. No one ever knew
what happened to the comforter,
Some bold spirit suggested that
it went into Miss Y.’s “hope-
chest.”
Looking back now, I under-
stand that five-sixths of these
women were only guilty of the
behavior that characterises most
frustrated females when put in
charge of youngsters of their
own sex. But at the time they
all seemed vindictive hags who
lived to vent an unaccountable
spite on the young. They formed
a dark galaxy revolving endlessly
round the Oracle, carrying out
her slighest wish slavishly, and
toadying for her favor at our
expense.
From the first I was endlessly
in trouble with this constellation,
because I had a propensity for
being caught. Those shoes, for
instance, found in my locker
after the Christmas holidays,
They were not my tennis-shoes;
they did not nearly fit me. But
they were in my locker, so the
Oracle resolved they were mine.
No maid would be so careless
as to fling a pair of old shoes into
the wrong pigeonhole, now.
would she—and shoes unmarked
with a name-tag, at that? Count-
less times I was hailed to the
office ; each time I disowned the
reckless exhibit. Each time the
Oracle reiterated that she was
right. Why didn’t I confess, and
claim them? (And write out a
long imposition signifying re-
pentance and intention to mend
my ways, eh? Not I!)
™
There was the longed-for
annual dance at which I was for-
bidden to remain after supper-
-10 oclock-even though I had a
spanking-new frock calculated to
stun my two admirers This was
for being late for the dentist, and
venturing down-town alone, risk-
mg the exposure of a single pair
of black-stockinged legs to pass-
approachf abduc-
' ’ . . ~ ,
There was a picnic to which
boarders were invited along with
several schoolboys It was a
glorious interval of wanderings
by a lagoon, eating forbidden
delicacies, playing games with
our friends, gathering flowers.
But some super-nark reported the
scandalous truth that the hostess
who had organised the party had
not turned-up in person, sending
along a younger, unmarried
.woman instead. In effect, there
was no chaperone!
Fortunately there were idio-
syncrasies which acted as leaven-
ing for our very heavy dough.
Oh special anniversaries the
Oracle would appear at the table
wearing black silk and violets,
and on her birthday there was
allowed to every girl a cream-
puff.
There were degrees of re-
proach, ranging from one’s
Christian-name through “My
dear girl” and “My dear young
woman,” to “Miss So-and-So, I’ll
have you understand” —the last
was equivalent to social ostra-
cism.
Desperate at this relationship
between teacher and pupil, I once
ventured to write to the Oracle
during Christmas holidays, stat-
ing some case or other. She re-
plied promptly, knocking all my
points sideways like skittles. My
letter was longish and impas-
sioned, hers brief and chill. Oh,
that relentless logic! So I had
only made matters worse by my
temerity, and the Oracle had
one more black mark to tick-up
against me.
The Oracle had a stern code of
honor. Though her harshness
did not foster truth-telling, she
loved truth, and she forbade
excessive ragging of new girls.
The illness she despised was
never yielded to by her. When
stricken with a malignant disease
she kept going much as usual.
By then she had retired from a
cloistered life, and devoted her-
self to various Good Works.
+ +
When I rolled out of Rode-
ney’s gates in a hansom-cab,
along with hilarious others on
our last Speech Day, I was full
of spirits; had not one regret.
Right on into adult life the
Oracle troubled my dreams. In
nightmares I was a girl again,
back at Rodeney House, and
being dragged before the tyrant
of old; hating her. Still she
charged me with absurd pecca-
dilloes and berated and
harangued me. Only at times the
weight of oppression lifted, and
I was able to answer-back in
my dream, and stump-off in
triumph.
A lot of things happened to
me in rapid succession. The
travels and adventures I had
yearned for when dreaming
along the school drive took a
peculiar shape, since they all
happened within myself.
From time to time I heard of
the Oracle, but so intent was I
trying to keep balance on my
tightrope, so taken up with all
the commitments Fate had
handed me, that I forgot her.
She belonged to a cramped life
which had all but fossilised me,
killing what initiative I possessed.
Yet the discipline of those five
dreary years at Rodeney stood to
me. Once having learned to
kotow, smiling, to the Oracle,
I didn’t find it as hard as I might
have done to bow to the Inevit-
able later on.
One day a strange thing hap-
pened ; something which in
schooldays would have been out-
side the most daring range of
imagination,
I had a letter of congratula-
tion from the Oracle. It was
about my writing, the only aspect
about me she had ever *bnsidered
seriously. She wrote;
“I have often thought of late
years that I was mistaken about
you at Rodeney House. I
thought you were lawless and
obstinate. But what I mistook
for insubordination then I now
acknowledge to have been sheer
spirit.”
That, from the Oracle! Surely
never before had my ogress tem-
porised, or been remotely apolo-
getic to a junior?
At that moment, the days of
my incarceration at Rodeney
passed before me, lit with lurid
gleams of my own cussedness.
The old tartar must have had a
heart tucked away behind the
grey or lilac linen bodices after
o Continued on page 34)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign •• • • £2/10/~
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
r
s. - >- ■
, ®
I i m
rtffC . ’ : "|3 3111
11
fsriiHiiT*
mi
S- :i
- nr-
/ % ■ % •" ’ .*Jf* - A
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONIjT BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney Turf Club’s £3lOO
Cup, plus the £3OO trophy, will
be decided at Rosehill this com-
ing Saturday. Several candi-
dates for the mile-and-a-half
race were among the runners at
that track last on
the form disclosed most of them
could safely be left in their
stables when it comes to the
Cup, though one that might im-
prove is Lord Saunders, who
finished fourth to Delwood at a
mile and a quarter, after being
one of the last to round the
home-turn.
There seems little reason for
going beyond Sir Pilot as the
likely S.T.C. Cup winner. He
performed stylishly to win at
Rosehill last Saturday week,
carrying 8,10 over If mile, and
his weight drops to Bst. New
Zealanders are doing well this
season, and Sobriquet could be
the chief danger to favorite Sir
Pilot. An interesting runner
will be Sunworship, from Mel-
bourne, and he might gain a
place.
• • • •
Doubles bookmakers got a
clean sheet on the Winter Han-
dicap-S.T.C. Cup when New
Zealander Chief Admiral won
the first leg. Chief Admiral put
up a bright performance, after
being uneasy in betting and
drifting to 20 to 1. The visitor,
who was having his third start
in Australia —the previous two
had been in Brisbane —was at the
tail of the field to the home-
turn. He then unwound a strong
run and wasn’t pushed right out
by Noel McGrowdie, who added
just one more important event
to his impressive tally.
Though Bill Cook was
cramped for room in the final
stages of the Winter Handicap
on runner-up Impress —another
from the Dominion and heavily
backed from 14’s to 8’s —and
Cook had claimed he was un-
lucky to lose, McGrowdie ap-
peared from the stands to be
riding Chief Admiral with con-
fidence, and he took a firm hold
of the gelding near the winning-
post. Chief Admiral seemed to
have something in hand, and
has evidently struck his best win-
ning form. He had won 11
prior events, most of them in
open company.
Sydney punters took no notice
of the country record of the
four-year-old Harinero (imp.)-
Fleeting Glimpse mare Simagree,
who easily won Rosehiil’s open-
ing event —the First Parramatta
Stakes —at 10 to 1. Before com-
ing to Sydney the mare had won
at Narrabri and Inverell, with
9st. at the latter course, but she
carried only 7.2 in the Rosehill
event. It was her 10th success.
In looks she is no beauty, but
the “ugly ducklings” of the turf
are sometimes among the
smartest gallopers. Perhaps her
appearance as she walked round
the mounting-enclosure scared
some who had been impressed by
her excellent country record.
Rounding the home-turn Sima-
gree was in front of only one of
the 14 starters, but she scored
on the bit. Her dam. Fleeting
Glimpse, was got by Golden
Sovereign (imp.) from Salmarch
by Salmagundi (imp.). Bred at
Sledmere stud. Scone (N.S.W.),
by M. V. Point, Simagree be-
longs to the family which pro-
duced Prince Foote, dual-Derby
and Melbourne Cup winner in
1909.
Coming from the rear of the
field at the home turn in the
Second Parramatta Stakes, New
Zealand-owned three-year-old
colt Livorno handed out a stylish
performance to record his first
win. An interesting feature of
his pedigree is that he is closely
related to Cover Up—Hollywood
(U.S.) Cup—and to Admiral
Drake (Auckland Cup). Cover
Up’s $lOO,OOO Cup was run in
2min., which equalled the then
American record for 10 furlongs.
Livorno is by Red Mars (imp.)
from Tukumaitu by Theio (imp.)
from Duck’s Egg (half-sister to
Admiral Drake) by Absurd
(imp.). H. (Larry) Wiggins,
mentor of Livorno —he’s a
trainer-jockey in the Dominion —
came to Australia a few years
back with a noted galloper.
Kindergarten. Wiggins rode
Akbar, runner-up to Delta in the
Melbourne Cup three years ago.
Livorno is to be set for the im ?
portant events of the Australian
spring.
• • • •
Mrs. W. H. Tyler paid 850
guineas for the grey colt by St.
Magnus (imp.) from Macaria at
the Randwick Easter sales ot
yearlings last year, and, now
racing as El Carretero, the colt
went to the post at 14 to 1 in the
Rosehill Two-year-old Handicap
(worth £668) and narrowly de-
feated Criollo and Charente;
had he kept a straight course in
the final stages he would have
won with something in hand.
The colt is trained by Jack Green
at Randwick.
Caramba, engaged in the
Caulfield Cup with 7st. and in
the Melbourne Cup with 41b,
less, already is being talked
about as a prospective Cups’
hope following her win over
the Caulfield Cup distance at the
V.A.T.C. track last Saturday.
She won the Murrumbeena Han-
dicap, carrying 7.4. A sister to
Phoibos, she is trained by Cecil
Godby for his daughter-in-law,
Mrs. K. D. Godby. Godby has
won three Caulfield Cups —
Purser, Gaine Carrington and
Northwind—but it will be tough
for a mare to win the coming
Cup, despite pull in the weights.
Caramba is by Helios (imp.)
from Spanish Star by Gay
Lothario (imp.). She won the
Wakeful Stakes last November
at Flemington.
In winning his fifth race from
11 starts —he also was in minor
places five times —smart Mel-
bourne two - year - old Clear
Springs carried the welter and
record weight of 10.3 to victory
in Caulfield’s First Lillimur
Handicap for that age-group. A
gallant effort over a mile, it
stamps Clear Springs as a top-
ranking sprinter. About 30 years
ago Heroic, also at Caulfield,
won with 10.2, he went on
to earn £38,062 in stakemoney
from 21 successes. He also was
leading sire in Australia for seven
successive seasons. At 1200gns.,
Clear Springs has proved a sale-
ring bargain for owner A. R.
Creswick, for whom he is trained
by F. W. Hoysted. The colt is
by Empyrean (imp.) from Spring
Time,
• • • •
Hayilah, Mudgee (N.S.W.),
studrhaster, Peter White, bred
Vital Chance, 10-to-l winner of
the Second Two-year-old Han-
dicap at Doomben. Raced by
Sydney owner Arthur Murrell,
the gelding is by Golden Chance
(imp.) from Urgency by Mar-
conigram (imp.) from Sareneila
(imp.) by Cicero. He has a Car-
bine-blood background, Amelia,
a good Melbourne stayer of a
few years ago, is included in the
pedigree.
Bought at the Randwick year-
ling sales two years ago, it took
Channel Haze the best part of a
couple of seasons to open her
winning-account, which she did,
at an outside price, in a New-
castle Maiden Handicap. Raced
by H. Hayes, for whom she is
trained by Harry Oakes, the
filly is by Channel Swell (imp.)
from Phoebe by Pantheon (imp.).
As Phoebe is a sister to former
crack stayer Peter Pan, a dual-
winner of the Melbourne Cup
and winner of £34,938 in stakes,
she might prove a staying mare
in the season about to begin.
Young Crusader (A.J.C. Metro-
politan and Summer Cup) also
figures in the bloodlines.
Joe Stapleton, one of the
“new” No. 1 (Randwick)
trainers, has had long experience
as a mentor. In fact, he received
his first licence the day before he
turned 21, from the late John
Underhill, who then was secre-
tary of the Associated (Pony)
Racing Clubs. Ponies Joe won
with included Wee Gay, Pious
Ann and The Cat (imp.). Since
those days Stapleton has trained
hundreds of winners; last week
he won at Wyong with First
Occasion. He is preparing Vil-
lager, and hopes he’ll turn out a
good stayer. Joe was with the
Sixth and Ninth Divisions;
he was at Alamein. Cyril Killian,
another new No. 1 trainer, also
has been in racing for the best
part of 40 years. He is a brother
of A.J.C. steward Jim Killian.
Both these trainers at present
have teams in work at Rosebery.
Memories of a grand per-
former will be revived by the
granting of a No. 1 (Randwick)
trainer’s licence to veteran
mentor Tim Brosnan also. Tim
raced and trained Lough Neagh,
winner of 32 races, second 23
times and third 21 times, for a
total of £20,196 in stakes. Lough
Neagh was successful in Brisbane
and in Sydney, mostly in weight-
for-age contests. Among handi-
cap events, he won the
Brisbane Cup.
» * ♦
In Rugby Union club games in
Sydney, Eastern Suburbs beat
Gordon, 20-17, Eastwood beat
University, 11-9, St. George beat
Drummoyne, 14-9, Manly beat
Randwick, 20-12, and Northern
Suburbs beat Parramatta, 30-6.
The Easts-Gordon game at
Chatswood was solid and, at
times, “willing” in the colloquial
sense. Referee Dawson awarded
a good many penalties for late
tackling. But it was a hard
forward game, at a pace that
would possibly kill a man not in
perfect condition. It is not gener-
ally realised just how hard a
Rugby Union game is for a
forward. A Rugby League
forward, by comparison, loafs,
The game also brought home the
striking improvement in Eastern
Suburbs this season ; well behind
early, Easts, through Saturday’s
win, goes to the top of the com-
petition, with St. George, This
sort of late-season run is typical
of the club’s record of recent
years (with the exception of last
year, when Easts were unbeaten
until late in the season) and there
seems to be one good explana-
tion. First-class coaching.
• • • •
Two country players, Black-
burn and Stanbrook, both from
Yeoval, are in the N.S.W. Rugby
Union team to play Queensland
on August 2. A country team
has been doing well in New
Zealand. All of which
emphasises the remarkable
spread of Rugby Union in
country districts of N.S.W.
recently.
• • • •
King’s beat Scots 11-10 on
Saturday, thereby making sure
of the G.P.S. Rugby Union
premiership. With one round to
go, King’s has a lead in points
which cannot be overtaken.
♦ ♦ ♦
Biggest turn-up in this year’s
V.F.L. games, wooden-spooner
Fitzroy’s defeat of Collingwood
(12.9-6.13) in the second half of
the split 13th round. ’Wood
sorely missed its two stars in the
State side, Bob Rose and Mann.
The Magpies, however, stay on
top of the table. Footscray, in
second place, also went down, to
Richmond (6.13-6.9), with
’Scray failing to score in the last
quarter. To complete the round,
Essendon kept up its recent good
work by comfortably beating
South (13.8-8.18).
Despite the W.A, State coach’s
confident prediction 10 days
before the first inter-State game—-
“I’m not talking out of the top
of my hat when I say that W.A.
will win” —Victoria twice easily
downed the local exponents of
the code in Perth. Actually the
Sandgropers did show all-round
improvement on their efforts at
i* l6 Adelaide carnival last year,
hut th e V still were never in the
race-
*
Particularly does this apply to
the return game, when Victoria
kept W.A. scoreless in the first
and third quarters, and piled up
a lead of 18.14-2.7 at three-
quarter time. Then (Victoria
with only 17 men, and easing up)
the Westerners were able to
make their tally a little more
respectable; at the end it was
19.16-8.13. (First game, to Vic,
16.22-11.10.)
• • • •
After which, bearing with them
their wounded, they crossed the
country of the South Australians
and there encountered, and
routed, a native host deployed
upon the banks of the gentle
Torrens. Thus was encompassed
(14.18-6.12) a second dishing-up
this year of this other foe, too.
* * *
Chosen to lead the M.C.C.
team to come to Australia
shortly, the best man for the job,
Len Hutton. There’s been too
much talk —in Australia anyway
—about the reintroduction in
English cricket of old-school-
tie-ism and the spirit of Lord
Hawke’s “Pray God a pro-
fessional will never captain Eng-
land” (though the lord seemingly
didn’t mean by that what it has
been taken to mean). Most likely
there’s been no real ground for
suggestions of the “plot” to
remove Hutton from the cap-
taincy, Hutton is the first pro-
fessional to lead England since
the M.C.C. began to organise the
tours of Australia ; and it’s quite
clear that the only thing that
would have stopped his getting
the post would have been the ill-
health that’s lately been troubling
him.
• • • •
“Mid - on”: Remarkably,
Hutton doesn’t captain his
county. Yorkshire skipper is
Norman Yardley, who’s led
England in the past (in 1948,
against Bradman’s side). Some-
what of a parallel case is that of
N.S.W. and Australian Rugby
League skipper Clive Churchill,
who doesn’t captain his club,
South Sydney.


Changes on the Clarence
Earle Page's Home-river
By M. F. DIXON
THE “mighty Clarence,” as it i
is sometimes described, ;
pride of Grafton (N.S.W.) i
and envy of its smaller
neighbors the 'Richmond and
Tweed, is a noble waterway in
normal times; but when occa-
sional torrential rainfalls in the
upper-reaches turn it into a rag-
ing torrent, spreading devasta-
tion far and wide, even its
greatest admirers call it by other
names and there is renewed de-
mand that it be dammed, accord-
ing to the gospel of Sir Earle
Page, who has been propounding
his Gorge scheme for almost
half a century.
To one born on the Clarence
River about the time of the ’9O
flood the changes that have
occurred in the last half-century
are almost incredible. And not
all of them have been due to
floods.
My early recollections of the
Clarence are of a river busy with
goods- and passenger-traffic ; of
wharves, dotted along the fore-
shores above Grafton, at which
one of two small steamers called
every day except Sunday, to land
a variety of commodities on the
up-trip and collect cans of cream
for the Grafton and Ulmarra
butter-factories on the return.
There were also two droghers
which made two trips a week
each up-river, to return with
cargoes of copper-ore, tinned-
meat, maize, pigs, hides and
other produce. And there were,
too, the excursion-steamers
which carried parties of “tour-
ists” from other centres to view
the picturesque scenery of the
upper-river.
The small daily steamers per-
formed a real service for river-
bank residents, bringing their
mail, parcels, bread and the like,
as well as collecting their cream
and small quantities of other
farm-produce. The skipper was
known personally to all his cus-
tomers, and would willingly
execute almost any com-
mission for them, such as
bringing medicine from the
chemist, posting mail and in-
quiring about the health of rela-
tives and friends in hospital. One
of the most popular of these
skippers of about 40 years ago,
George Hann, died in Grafton
recently at a ripe old age.
It was much the same on the
lower-Clarence, between Grafton
and Iluka, except that the
steamers were larger and carried
more goods and passengers.
Twice each week lower-river
residents also had the thrill of
seeing a North Coast Steam
Navigation Company’s steamer
from Sydney “cross the bar” at
the mouth of the river, to land
goods and passengers at various
points on the way to Grafton,
about 50 miles up.
Today all that is changed —
there are no steamers, large or
small, trading on the upper- or
lower-river; and recently
N.C.S.N. withdrew its steamers
and went into voluntary liquida-
tion because trading was no
longer profitable. The copper-
mines at Cangai and other cen-
tres above Copmanhurst are no
longer working; the meat-pre-
serving works at Ramomie are
little more than a memory; the
maize, cream, pigs, hides and
other primary products are col-
lected on the farm by motor-
lorry ; tourists visit the resorts
on the upper- and lower-river by
bus and private car; and pas-
sengers travel to Sydney by air-
conditioned express-trains and
flying-boats.
Truly the trade and commerce
of the district have undergone
a remarkable change in the last
half-century; and the life and
habits of the people have
changed, too. f
The floods of ’B7, ’9O and sub-
sequent years caused great dam-
age to farms and property in
their day, but the floods of recent
years have been even more de-
structive, because there has been
so much more to destroy. It is
easy to compare the height of
recent floods with those of the
latter part of last century; it is
not so easy to compare the
damage. There are hundreds
more houses in Grafton and
South Grafton to flood now;
many more roads and bridges in
the district to wash away ; more
farms to devastate.
Copmanhurst, at the head of
navigation, about 30 miles above
Grafton by river and 20 miles by
road, was once a busy centre, to
which dozens of horse- and
bullock-teams brought great
quantities of copper-ore each
week from the Cangai and other
mines up in the mountains.
Taken by the droghers to Graf-
ton, it was transhipped to one
of the coastal steamers for Syd-
ney. At least once a week a
drogher would take about a
thousand bags of the ore to
Grafton; most of her other-trip
cargoes of maize, hides, pigs and
the like were also destined for
Sydney. Maize-growing was a
big industry on the Clarence at
the turn of the century ; but the
internal-combustion engine has
gradually displaced the horse and
there is not the same demand
for maize today.
Another drogher belonging to
the N.C.S.N. plied regularly be-
tween Grafton and Ramornie,
then a busy meat-canning centre
on the Orara River, which runs
into the Clarence a few miles
below Copmanhurst. The Orara
drains a big area of country, and
in flood-time sends down a con-
siderable volume of water to add
to the danger of Grafton,
Ulmarra, Maclean and other
lower-river centres.
For many years the meat-
canning works at Ramornie were
run by an old English family, the
Tindals, who had a contract to
supply meat to the Imperial
Army and killed and canned
thousands of head of the finest
North Coast cattle each season.
The killing-season usually lasted
about six months and employed
a large number of men; the
works in their day were a model
of cleanliness and efficiency.
Today they are only a memory
amongst the old residents. Decay
set in soon after the Tindals sold
the works to other interests.
When droghers and small
steamers dominated the goods-
and passenger-traffic of the
upper-Clarence a dredge was
regularly employed keeping the
channels open. One bucket-
dredge, working for many
months a few miles below
Eatonsville, threw up two long,
narrow islands, with a deep
channel between, on which small
trees and other vegetation grew
luxuriantly. By floods and
“freshes” the soil has been
washed back into the river, which
is now so shallow in many places
that navigation would be impos-
sible for all but the smallest
boats.
Naturally, this silting of the
river has increased the flood-
danger for Grafton and other
lower-river centres. The shallow
stream of today cannot hold the
same volume of water as when it
was regularly dredged; and
there is now no call for dredging,
because of the abandonment of
river-traffic —apparently part of
the price people must pay for
progress.
There have been many agita-
tions on the Clarence in recent
years—for flood-mitigation, a
new northern State and improved
communication services—but I
cannot recall any outburst so
violent as the farmers displayed
towards the imposition of wharf-
rentals by the State Government
about fifty years ago.
Up to that time holders of
river-bank properties had re-
garded water-frontages as their
own, and were righteously in-
dignant when told that a rental
of ten-shillings a year would have
to be paid to the Government
for any wharf which extended
beyond high-water. Most of
these wharves were merely
single planks, running a few feet
beyond low-tide, on which a can
of cream could be stood for the
boat to collect. The rental was
only a small one, even for those
far-off days, but its imposition
roused most of the farmers to
fury. Many of them refused to
pay for a long time, and almost
all of them demolished their
wharves, regardless of the incon-
venience to themselves and the
luckless skipper of the boat, who
had to land their goods and col-
lect their cream.
There was then no such thing
as Government help for the
North Coast farmer ; hence they
were specially resentful of what
they regarded as Government
interference. When floods, fires
or drought devastated their pro-
perties they simply gritted their
teeth and started all over again.
Self-help was their motto; and
most of them were so sturdily
independent that they hesitated
to accept help even from their
neighbors.
How times and outlooks have
changed! Today there are con-
cession rail-freights for drought-
areas ; Federal and State Govern-
ment aid is readily forthcoming
for flood-relief; and even city
newspapers and inter-State inter-
ests help them to get on their
feet again. Even so, many who
are now happy to accept Govern-
ment assistance are still strongly
hostile to Government interfer-
ence.
As a footnote to the suspension
of river-traffic on the upper- and
lower-Clarence and the with-
drawal of coastal steamers by
the North Coast Co. I read
recently where the Government
is pushing ahead with the con-
struction of a deep-sea port at
Iluka, near the mouth of the
river, at a cost of a million-
pounds or more. It is ironical
that the decision to build this
port should almost coincide with
the suspension of the traditional
shipping-service between Sydney
and Grafton. This service had
been the lifeline of the Clarence
until rail-, road- and air-traffic
made it unprofitable. Even
the greatest optimist on the
North Coast today would hesk
tate before predicting a lasting
revival of the shipping-trade,
irrespective of the port-facilities
available.
A Bush Paper of the ’Nineties
By E. G. BONNEY
p ff f & Wvalong
HT ™ “Argus” com-
com
I P
Sng colors and’
a printer’s deviHmvself). It was
published every
Fid witb ’ tbe a jd c f an
™ ay r of a tyre seen
1 , in mU seums,
The boss used to opera t e the
not a iob for a weakling—
my task was to ink the
aS to remove the printed
b y r^adsheet “fl y i n g” it neatly on
‘ table for folding It
seemed t m e 0 tha. thc g m ost
scientifl t of the whok busi-
ness of newsp aper-production
was the actual printing ; for any-
thing was likely to happen to our
c j d press at any time. But Hugh
Cameron was a better mechanic
flmn he was a businessman, and
thougb he f a fl e d t o keep his
pape r alive he always managed
to pro duce it on time while it
retained the spark of life.
The cases of type, on frames
b i gb enough to suit the working
requirements of the adult com-
positor, were much too near the
ce iling for me, and for months
i had to stand on a foot-high
box in order to pick up the
leaden letters.
A boyish recollection is of a
visit from a discerning but dusty
stranger in cycling-togs, who
. j ? and
readflng *for the
patted me on the head and Sid
me I was a “fine young press-
man.”
It was W. A. Holman, then a
comparatively young political
New
South Wales. A man of great
chamr, Holman knew
how to coax goodwill from
young and old. In later years, as
a gallery-reporter on the “Sydney
MoS Herald,” I heard him
speak many times and admired
his faultless oratory.
At the time of my Wyalong
apprenticeship, however, he was
just a wayfarer. When he was
chosen to stand for Grenfell in
Labor’s interests he was by no
means well-to-do. and in the
absence of swffter means of
transport he traversed the huge
electorate on a push-bicycle
and won the election. How
different was his final appearance,
as State Premier. By that time
(1920) even motor-cars were not
speedy enough for him. He
conducted a lightning campaign
by aeroplane—and was beaten.
In my last talk with him, with
old Peter Bowling making
occasional quips, we spoke of the
old pushbike days, and
wondered whether the striving
had been worth while. He
certainly was a happier man
while fighting to get his foot on
the Parliamentary ladder than
when, having climbed to the
highest rung, he found himself
surrounded by enemies seeking
On the SUbieCt of t ransport
by^ay^hen'l
Wyalong as a small boy in 1897,
I travelled the 42 miles from
Temora, high up beside the
driver, in a Cobb and Co.’s
coach. What a thrill that was —
and what a lovely liar the driver
was, with his thrilling stories of
armed hold-ups and bullet-
dodging episodes. We spent a lot
of time side-by-side, for heavy
rain had fallen throughout the
previous night, making the bad
roads impassable, and the journey
occupied the best part of two
days. Five or six years ago,
when I revisited Wyalong, I
completed the same trip by
motor-car in just under one hour.
But we didn’t have to hurry in
the ’nineties.
I have had a lot to do with
editors since those distant days,
but Mr. Rabbets, of the Wyalong
“Argus,” was the only one I
have known who could stand in
front of a type-case and set-up a
leading article “out of his head.”
He used pen or pencil only for
note-taking, and actually com-
posed jingle- while the type passed
from case to composing-stick.
When he returned from a meet-
ing he would prop up his short-
hand notes and translate them
trippingly into type, exciting my
admiration greatly by so doing.
We all agreed that four lines he
wrote in one “poem” were pretty
good:—
Oh Mother-in-law
You are a bore,
Your bloomin’ jaw
My heart has tore.
One took it for granted that
all his jingle was original; but
in any event it was obvious that
“Rabbo,” as we called him, was
i
too highly trained a craftsman
to remain on a tmpot weekly for
long. We said good-bye to him
within a few months, and, after
hrnpmg along wnhout an «htm
for a few weeks, netted an
athletic young journalist name
Robinson. He could write short-
hand, but was a better cricketer
On one occasion an animated
sports argument between hm and
the local postmaster led to a
challenge, for a stake of ten-
shillings aside, to a f single-handed
cricket-match. I have never
heard of another match of the
but .ha, one was a real
Te n volunteers fielded
. ■*“
bni P d y bowline ’were
° Tinted tn e two contestants
h h „ entitled to two’
■ • „ nostmasfer made
iq ; n 8 b k n r ct in nines and the
rlnned this vvith a solid
p _ ot eo ; ne ; n b ; s
* d innines and brought his
t t 1 Qrnr . t n 85 but our
h - n hi<s t * tal 11T> to
n J* out P
Tinfortnnafplv Rnhincrm wa<; a
t Rnactina nf pnHier
_ vnl * in tb bar f baf even ine
h P v, af i tn bllv c PV eral rounds of
Hrin i. ‘ tfl bold tb** interest of his
„ lir |- nrP twhich included the
a “ d] ‘ e^f d “ an d theßost-
h t m .. rh L,
lhan the half-sovereicn stake
before the party broke up.
Our ,hird[ editor was a no-
hot**,
capacity for dnnkmgthat either
(Continued on page 34)


ss
ii
j**- u .-*•***
i
Holden is Australia’s most popular car because
HOLDEN IS AUSTRALIA’S
FINEST VALUE
NO OTHER CAR GIVES YOU
THIS IDEAL COMBINATION
• 6 cylinder “ square ” engine
performance at lowest cost.
• 30 m.p.g. economy as reported
by owners.
• 6passenger roominess at lowest
cost.
• A sedan model from as low as
£895 plus tax
Only Holden offers the ideal combina-
tion of all the virtues you seek in a car
because Holden is the only car designed
and built for Australia.
With 6 cylinder, 21 h.p. performance,
Holden gives you 30 m.p.g. economy as
reported by owners. Hand in hand with
this economy goes proven dependability.
In Holden’s solid, safe, all-steel Aero-
bilt Body six people ride comfortably.
Yet Holden handles sweetly in traffic
and is easy to park.
Add to all this the low cost and ready
availability of parts, nation-wide service,
high resale value and you realise why
Hplden is the finest value.
Call in and see your Holden Dealer
soon and ask him to arrange a
demonstration for you.
LIST PRICES
Holden Standard Sedan £895
Holden Special Sedan £940
Holden Business Sedan £920
All prices are subject to
Sales Tax.
0 There are two Air Chief
Car Radios specially design-
ed for Holden.
II
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Car
* Registered Trade Mark
Australia’s Own Utility
£875 plus tax.
Holden is the only utility
combining 6 cylinder power,
21 h.p. performance and 30
m.p.g. economy as reported
by owners.
• Convenient hire purchase
terms are available through
G.M.A.C.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
V Sold and Serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
Does Mr. Menzies
Really Understand
Communism?
Two years ago Mr. Menzies made a
remarkable defence of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, of which he is Chairman,
after Government and Opposition Members
had proved it was financing Communist
and pro-Communist writers. _
The current issue of the League of Eights
Intelligence Survey deals with the latest
example of pro-Communist propaganda
being financed by the Literary Fund and
examines Mr. Menzies’ apparent inability
to understand, along with many other
public men, that Communism derives its
leadership from the so-called educated
classes and not from the workers.
Another outstanding feature of the latest
Intelligence Survey is “The Great Con-
ference Obsession,” by the famous Ameri-
can authority on Communism, W. H.
Chamberlin.
Single issues of The Intelligence Survey,
4/-, post free. Annual subscription,
£2/2/-, post free.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN LEAGUE
OF RIGHTS
(Non-party, non-sectarian)
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDONESIA
One considerable obstacle con-
fronting American efforts to
organise South - East Asian
countries to defend themselves
against Communism is the fact
that Indonesia, the largest free
nation in the area, is not particu-
larly interested.
As a result, there is, as “U.S.
News and World Report” puts it,
“a 3000-mile gap right in the
heart of any defence system that
may be devised. These lands
contain riches in rubber, oil and
strategic materials which make
them No, 1 prize in the area,
“Next to Indo-China, Indo-
nesia is the most perplexing
problem-child in South-East
Asia. Here are the seeds of civil
war, the weakness on which
Communism thrives, and the
ignorance of Communist methods
which makes for easy conquests
by Moscow and Peking.”
The “U.S. News and World
Report” adds that “disorder is
almost endemic to the country,”
a verdict which, as the following
typical opinions demonstrate, is
pretty common among overseas
commentators:
London “ Economist .”—“This
vast archipelago, inhabited by
more people than there are on
the whole mainland of South-
East Asia, lies at the crossroads
of the communications between
Australia and the Orient, and be-
tween the Indian and Pacific
Oceans. By capturing it the
Communists would win a most
important success.
“The Indonesian Communist
party, with a membership of
100,000 and commanding about
30 seats in Parliament, knows
that it can bring the Government
down at any moment. But, hav-
ing infiltrated the Nationalist
party, and arguing that any alter-
native Government would be
based on the right-wing Muslim
and Socialist groups, the Com-
munists prefer for the moment to
go on holding the present
position,
“At their Congress in March,
they re-emphasised the two-
pronged policy of ‘partial col-
laboration’ with the Govern-
ment and of a simultaneous
‘remobilisation and reorganisa-
tion of the masses, especially the
workers and peasants’; much of;
this is done through the trade-
union organisation, which has
been deeply penetrated by the
party.
“Indonesia is in a dangerous
position, and no help can be
expected from Djakarta in
organising South-East Asian
defence. At best, the traditional
Indonesian indecisiveness will
allow the present drift to
continue.”
♦ ♦ *
London “Observer." —“The
present Indonesian Government
is based on the Nationalist party,
but it retains power only by
alliance with the Communist
party. This unholy alliance
keeps the two main moderate
parties—the Socialists and the
Muslims —out of power.
“Dr. Sastroamidjojo, the Prime
Minister, made it clear at the
Colombo Conference in April
that he would support no South-
East Asia pact directed against
Communism.”
♦ ♦ *
"Manchester Guardian.” —
“The unholy compact has
worked roughly as follows. In
return for continued and, as it
has turned out, unconditional
support in Parliament, the Com-
munist party was to be allowed
a free hand in the country, and
the Masjumi [Muslim] and
Socialists, the only two serious
“N. Y. Times"
IN
opponents of both partners in the
alliance, were to be curbed as
much as was safely possible. The
Masjumi, in fact, is too powerful
for much overt action to be
taken against it. The Socialist
party, which has never aimed at
being a mass party, is more
vulnerable.”
* » ♦
"U.S. News and World
Report.” —“Currently the Com-
munists are playing their alliance
with the coalition Government
for all it’s worth. Financially,
for example, the Government is
dependent on Dutch, U.S.,
British, Belgian and French
estate operators in Sumatra who
produce the rubber, tobacco,
palm-oil and tea that give Indo-
nesia about 30 per cent, of its
foreign-exchange earnings. But
the Government encourages the
Communist control of the rubber
workers’ labor unions.
“The economy of the country
is in near-desperate shape. Gold
and foreign-exchange reserves
are at their lowest point since
the Republic won its independ-
ence from the Dutch at the end
of 1949.
“Unemployed, or partially
unemployed, are estimated at 14
million. Yet the Government’s
land, tax, labor and immigration
policies are not attractive to the
foreign investments which all
Government officials insist they
want. The country’s major
exports —rubber, oil and tin —
are subject to wide price-fluctua-
tions on world markets.”
« ♦ •
"Manchester Guardian.”—
“The Army is riddled with
intrigue, and together with its
lesser arm, the police, is hard put
to it to prevent its being used for
the advantage of one or another
political group. Deprived, to
please Nationalist fanatics, of
the skilled guidance of the
Netherlands Military Mission, it
has been left to its own boot-
straps, The results are not
encouraging.”
• • • •
The same. —“ Corruption is
now accepted as normal in every
layer of Indonesian life, in public
service as in private business.
The Minister of State Welfare,
with the special task of sup-
pressing corruption, recently de-
clared that corruption was on the
increase but that nothing has so
far been done about it, as his
Ministry was still working out a
way of accomplishing its func-
tion without getting in the way
of all the other State organs
whose task it also is to fight
corruption,”
• • • •
The same. —“ Even the most
sympathetic observer cannot but
feel shaken as he surveys the
melancholy scene and compares
it with the situation at the
transfer of sovereignty in
December, 1949, when Indonesia
started on its independent exist-
ence —admittedly with no money
in the bank, but with the goodwill
of almost the whole of the
Western world. Then the new
rulers were bursting with
enthusiasm and a social spirit.
Now, apathy is everywhere and
care for self the only rule. The
money Indonesia has made in the
meantime it has mostly squan
dered, and the present Govern-
ment is determined on showing
no friendship to the United
States. The unity of the revolu-
tionary period was more or less
intact in 1949; now it is not to
be conjured up even by President
Soekarno’s frequent calls for it.”
The same. —“When to all this
is added runaway inflation on the
horizon, a small class of rich
and privileged already in view,
and a steady infiltration of the
armed forces, is it any wonder
the Communists are content to
stand and wait?”
German Character
The following observations on
the German character are from a
long and thoughtful survey by
Karl Jaspers in the U.S.
quarterly review “Foreign
Affairs.” Jaspers was formerly
Professor of Philosophy at the
University of Heidelberg and
now occupies a similar post at
the University of Basle.
# *
“How is it possible that in
poetry, music, philosophy,
science, technology the Germans
should have made such a large
contribution to the intellectual
wealth of mankind, and yet
should have permitted Hitler to
create a criminal State and over-
whelm the world and themselves
in disaster?
“Those who admit their
efficiency, their industriousness,
their conscientiousness, their
soldierly qualities, are the more
astounded at the indifference
with which they seem to take
everything. But though their
political unreliability is shocking,
they constitute a material force
which appears to be indestruc-
tible ; and in the present state of
the world that force is needed.
“The hope is that through the
development of democracy in
Germany this force may become
purer, more Westernised, increas-
ingly governed by principles of
freedom.
♦ ♦ •
“The majority of Germans
want to be governed authorita-
tively but decently. Hitler was
a terrible disappointment. But
the fact that a restoration of the
Nazi regime seems unlikely at
present is not by itself enough
ground to feel reassured. The
swamp of intellectual, moral and
political confusion, the uncertain
and unreliable soil on which
Hitler and his associates
flourished, is still there. On a
higher intellectual level, too, a
basic idea which is politically
calamitous has by no means been
extinguished. #
“In principle Hitler is de-
nounced but not the idea of the
great leader as such. The subject
is not of current interest and one
does not talk about it. But those
who have lived through 1933
and have seen the reactions of
professors, students, the middle-
class and even workers know that
there is something in our people
which believes in the great leader,
whether he be an imperial
monarch or a charismatic hero
of the people. It can be traced
in our classic literature. Hie


Have you tried
c ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
/ would offer you *.
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany have
a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s not idle
chance which leads that
well - known personality,
Claire Bloom, to smoke
—and to offer —these
mild and flavor-
fu 1 cigarettes.
m
AS FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
sober and realistic understanding
that Man is always governed by
Man and that every human
leader needs to be controlled
seems hard to attain.
“The average German, then,
trusts authority; the business of
authority, he assumes, is to
handle politics and relieve him
from thinking about them. He
expects that this authority, which
derives from God, as the expres-
sion used to be, will lead him
well, and he demands that it
should not disappoint him. If
he is disappointed, however, it
has never as yet been his desire
to share the responsibility but to
obtain a better authority.
* *
“The unpredictable, which is
perhaps even stronger in
Germans than in other peoples,
worries both. Foreigners and
Germans alike were surprised
by what happened in 1933, Sud-
denly in community after com-
munity people who had until
then been disreputable failures
became the masters. Notorious
criminals began to run the
country.
“Now most Germans were
doubtless as reasonable, indus-
trious and decent before 1933 as
they are today. Of course, there
was a considerable minority of
obsessed persons in 1933, hut
actually the Nazis came to power
through a chain of accidents
which seemed at the time to
represent either an irresistible
turn of history or satanic fate.
They advanced to power at first
through disguised illegalities
(disguised, because even Hitler
knew that the Germans would
trust only what seemed a legal
and orderly transfer of power)
and finally through a series of
bluffs and acts of blackmail
(which impressed a minority as
proofs of their leader’s glorious
superiority). And then —it is
another fact which is surprising
and should not be forgotten—
not everybody followed, but the
majority did.
“It must not be assumed that
the foregoing German political
characteristics are innate or
hereditary. What has been
brought into being and formed
by history is carried on by tradi-
tion, not by biological heredity.
It is born slowly and it changes
slowly. In view of historical
analogies, the German people
cannot be expected to change
suddenly; but they should be
encouraged to do so in the long
run, beginning with an inner
revolution in the thinking of the
individual. Those in Germany
who know what is needed —and
there are still only a few —are
working for such a change.
* * *
“The main question which will
decide Germany’s democratic
future and freedom, both at
home and abroad, is that of the
new German army. In view of
the total loss of freedom which
threatens us from outside, re-
armament is a hard necessity. In
contrast to former days, German
youth now has no inclination
toward military service. Nobody
wants a war. Yet there are
strong pressures to rearm. The
regular officers of the Hitler era
push forward into public life,
anxious to rehabilitate themselves
while building a new army.
America wants German rearma-
ment because without it no
secure dam for the protection of
Europe can be created. The
European countries favor it for
the same reason, despite misgiv-
ings about reviving an army
which has proved once before
that it can achieve the fincon-
ceivable.
“Rearmament cannot be dis-
cussed parenthetically. Yet a
few of the possible dangers
which it represents for the demo-
cratic system of thought should
be called to mind. Would not
the spirit of the Hitler army,
through its many regular officers
who are still available today, kill
at the start all chance for the
creation of a German political
spirit? Would it not be
disastrous for German freedom
and indeed for world freedom if
the new German army were not
built up in radical denunciation
of the spirit of the Hitler army
and after a conscious break with
that tradition?
“Must not the new army
discard that tradition in favor
of the soldierly spirit of
Gneisenau and Scharahorst arid
the old Moltke? In this con-
nection it should be realised that
the German military spirit lost
its dignity under Hitler. Nobody
who owed his position to Hitler
and had served him could save
his honor except by sacrificing
his life as did General von
Treskow and others. The dis-
cussion of the oath to Hitler
which continues to this day
proves the disintegrating effect
of National Socialism.
“In the Hitler era there were,
of course, a few regular officers
who both by their acts and their
refusals to act gave proof of a
character which would qualify
them to help build a new army.
But they cannot be picked out
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “ Sun”
“REMEMBER THE TROUBLE THEY GOT YOU INTO LAST
TIME!"
objectively, and probably some
of them would even shy away
from such a task.
“On the other hand, the new
German regular officer should
not be trained by the regular
officers of Hitler’s army. But
how otherwise? At one time in
the 18th century Prussian Army-
instructors helped the Americans
to. build up their army. Would
it not be possible for American
and Swiss instructors to train the
new German soldiers and officers
now? That would take too long,
I am told; the matter is too
urgent. Doubt is also expressed
whether the spirit of an army in
the old sense can be revived at
all. Instructors for the
mechanised modern army are
totally different from the officers
of the past; Hitler’s officers
were efficient technicians and so
would be useful.
* * *
“At this point I am overcome
by a terrible pessimism. Who-
ever wishes to save the possi-
bility that there will be demo-
cracy and liberalism in Germany
should find a way to free those
people and forces who would
start at the beginning and build
up, in a technical age, a spirit
that is soldierly and yet humane.
They would not build on the
immediate past—except as some-
thing to push away from —but on
centuries-old memories of
German and Western honor,
finding new forms to suit the
new conditions.
“When I imagine how, in the
framework of a European Army,
German contingents might be
trained in France and French
contingents in Germany, what
possibilities for mutual sympathy
and esteem might flourish as a
result of direct contacts on a
basis of equality, how the spirit
of democracy would develop
naturally—this dream seems to
me the most natural thing and
still a dream,”
Japan and Communism
Although Japan has lately
ratified the Mutual Defence
Agreement with the United
States, both British and American
Press comment is characterised
by a note of vague unease regard-
ing the future course of Japanese
policy.
London “Daily Mail” corres-
pondent, G. Ward Price, for
instance, notes that although the
official Japanese attitude during
six years’ occupation was one of
“docile compliance,” it could
hardly have been anything else.
The American Government was
pouring money into Japan and
believed it was converting the
country to democratic principles.
And that faith or hope was the
basis for the negotiations for
bases in Japan for the defence
of South-East Asia against
Communism.
“The effectiveness of such dis-
positions,” the correspondent
adds, “depends on a real re-
orientation of Japan’s nationalist
policy.
“Until Japan’s defeat in the
last war it had been the most
militarist nation in the Far East,
Its policy was dictated by a
clique of ruthless officers who
imposed their ambitious aims of
national expansion upon
members of the Government by
the threat of assassination.
“It takes more than a few
years of foreign military occupa-
tion to change the character of
an arrogantly patriotic nation
like the Japanese, especially when
it already rankles under the
humiliation of defeat. At the
back of the popular mind is the
conviction that Japan, not the
United States, should be the
arbiter of the fortunes of
Eastern Asia.”
It would be wise, therefore,
the correspondent concludes, for
the Western Powers not to rely
too easily upon Japanese co-
operation against Communism,
and to take into consideration
the possibility of Japan drifting
into the enemy camp.
“If a combination were
brought about between Russia's
vast resources or raw materials,
China’s immense population, and
Japan’s skill in all the arts and
sciences of the West, it might lead
to an inter-continental clash that
would wreck civilisation.
“A sideshow to this specula-
tive danger is the fact that
Japanese prisoners - of - war
returning from Russia seem to
have been thoroughly indoc-
trinated with Soviet propaganda.
They provide a reinforcement for
the estimated 400,000 adherents
of Communism already in
Japan.”
Writing along roughly the
same lines —that Japan is not
necessarily a past-the-post ally
for the West —“New York
Times” correspondent Lindesay
Parrott comments that “nothing
in the Diet debate (on the Mutual
Defence Agreement) or vote
seems to bear out the prediction
of General Douglas MacArthur
that an independent Japan, freed
from the occupation’s strings,
would become a solid ‘bastion of
democracy.’
“Japan accepted American aid
for rearmament with neither
enthusiasm nor unanimity. In
both Houses of the Diet ratifica-
tion was won by small majorities,
on strictly party lines, with
Yoshida’s Liberals in favor and
the Socialists and some other
groups opposed.
“Japan, in short, is a reluctant
ally. Nevertheless, she has value
to the West —an enormous value,
if a negative one.”
Continuing, the “N. Y. Times”
correspondent notes that
although Japan’s geographical
position, its industrial strength
and capacity, and its manpower
are important but not decisive
advantages to the West, they
could be invaluable to the
Communists ;
“The natural resources Japan
lacks are available close at
hand in Communist Asia, across
a narrow sea. Oil in Sakhalin,
for instance, and coal in Man-
churia. Japan has the warm
water ports on the Pacific that
Russia has coveted since Tsarist
days. Japan has the kind of
industrial complex that the Soviet
Union and Communist China
have struggled to construct in the
Far East. What Communism
could do with a labor force of
some millions of Japanese on the
mainland can be imagined.”
One reason for Japan being a
“reluctant ally,” Parrott con-
cludes, is “the uneasy suspicion
in some [Japanese] circles that
Japan’s defence force can be
useful only as an adjunct to
American strategic planning—an
idea which hurts the touchy pride
of the newly independent
Japanese, who have an unfor-
gotten ‘great nation’ complex.
The argument is made that
Japan may become in effect
militarily ‘colonised’ by America.
“ ‘Colonialism’ is a key word
in Japan, freely bandied about
in Communist party-line diatribes
against the ‘aggressive white
man,’ but it is an emotion-
provoking phrase for many non-
Communists as well. Japan, the
only Far Eastern nation never
subjected to white colonialism
and, in fact, once a colonial
Power herself in Korea, Formosa
and Manchuria, fears and dis-
trusts possible foreign domina-
tion as sharply as nations which
have been colonies of Western
Powers.”
Further to the use of Japanese
defence forces in any South-East
Asia line-up against Communism,
“Manchester Guardian” com-
ments editorially that “the Upper
House of the Diet has tried to
tie the hands of the Government.
‘This House,’ it resolved, ‘con-
firms anew that the dispatch of
troops abroad for action should
not be carried out, in the light
of the articles of the present Con-
stitution and the ardent peace-
loving spirit of our people.’
“Certainly Japan does not yet
seem enthusiastic to become a
founder member of Seato.”
Dragnet Digest
E.D.C. Alternative. —If one
must be found, the best way, in
the editorial view of London
“Observer,” “would be to equip
Nato, which already has its
common European command,
with an armaments board with
functions similar to those
envisaged for E.D.C., as well as
with machinery for more
constant political consultation
between member-States. ' The
absorption of German units by a
Nato strengthened in this way is
regarded as perfectly feasible.
Politically, it would be an
important step towards giving
the Atlantic alliance that con-
federal character which it must
develop if it is to resist the
strains of a long period of cold
war. Technically, it would give
France the security she. craves by
putting German armament under
the control of a common board
in which Britain and the United
States would take part.”
American Smoking. —ln 1900,
according to “N. Y. Times”
figures, the U.S. produced 3200
million cigarettes; in 1940 the
figure was 189,300 million ; and
in 1952 it was 434,500 million.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
People in Glass Houses
How on earth did it get into any archi-
tect’s head that an all-glass, or nearly
all-glass, house facing north was the
must suitable for the Australian climate?
Australians aren’t orchids.
The Department of Labor and National
Service has now joined the fashionable
chorus with a publication called “Con-
trol of Sunlight Penetration” which
gives a comprehensive account of the
sun’s behavior in relation to Australian
buildings, with recommendations for
sunshading windows, facing any direction
in any latitude.
The early settlers in their first houses
were following a tradition developed in
a different climate and tended to make
the windows a bit too small, but they
very quickly adapted themselves to the
new conditions without the aid of a
department and introduced the french-
window with its lovely-looking shutters
and ceiling-to-floor windows.
Instead of developing the beautiful Old
Colonial form, as Gropius, recently in
Australia, said they should have done,
modern architects wiped the slate clean
and started building all-glass erections
eminently suitable for goldfish. So
that the owners could have some
privacy when getting into bed and to
prevent them being grilled alive in sum-
mer, they then found that they had to
provide curtains, so they evolved louvres,
which don’t look half as nice as the old
french-shutters and put the cost up
enormously.
Rather than admit that they were
merely following a U.S. fashion they
then invented a principle to make the
thing seem reasonable and started say-
ing that we should let the outside world
into our dwellings.
I don’t know why we should. When
you’re in a room, it seems to me, you
want to appreciate what’s in the room,
not be bothered by what’s outside it.
You can always go out and look if you
want to be with nature. In the modern
glasshouse you simply can’t see a pic-
ture, even if you can find a spot to hang
one, you can’t see your furniture or in-
terior decorations or one another’s faces,
except in a hard light which destroys all
the variety of light and shade which
charms us so much when we see it in
films like “Decameron Nights” or “Mar-
tin Luther.”
In the department’s publication it is
stated that two American architects
have spent several years testing out the
modern Australian house and have pro-
"How’s the weather report on Endor?"
duced an impressive formula and a
great array of charts which boil down
to the recommendation that buildings
should stop facing the equator directly
and turn slightly to the east. This, I
presume, is in order to make them a
little less like ovens, but why make them
such in the first place? A house that is
cold in winter can be easily warmed up,
but there is no way cf cooling down a
hot house except at a cost which puts
it out of the reach of all but a millionaire
pocket.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Crown and Parliament
“AyA-.C.” (B. 7/7/’54) asks whether
the Governor would be legally bound to
obey the people, or Cabinet or Parliament,
if a majority of electors sought dissolu-
tion on the ground that Parliament did
not represent the majority will. The
answer is that in these circumstances not
only is the Governor under no legal duty
to act, but also that he is completely
powerless to act.
The people can adopt several courses.
They can expel Parliament by force, or
they can- ignore the law completely and
combat any attempt to enforce it. Again
they can ask the Crown to withhold its
consent. This involves a denial of the
omnicompetent legislative authority of
Parliament within constitutional limits.
It is as much a revolution as the preced-
ing proposals. Once such a step is taken
we are in the realm of lawlessness.
Should it be desired to remain within
“I don’t think WE’LL try central heating."
the law there are several other courses
open. The people can decide to wait
until the next election when their repre-
sentatives can be voted out and the legis-
lation revoked. If it is a vital question
considerable pressure can be exerted on
the representatives to drop or alter the
legislation.
“A.A.C,” seems to suggest that
“majority rule” can give the Crown
power to withhold its assent. The first
comment that I would like to make is
that this aim can only be achieved by
some system of representation. Our
Constitution vests legislative competence
in a Parliament responsible to the people.
A denial of that competence involves a
denial of the Constitution which in turn
entails the disappearance of our legal
system. Should this result any power
capable of enforcing its will may do so,
and call the result law.
Second, if “A.A.C.” is suggesting that
“majority rule” means that only the
majority will is important, he is suggest-
ing a theory alien to democracy and the
British Constitution. Both these recognise
a balance of interests between the free-
dom of the individual to think, say or
do anything which is reasonable in rela-
tion to the community’s interest —a
balance which changes from time to time,
but which gives adequate protection to
minority groups. The only State which
has lifted “majority rule” into a legal
system is the U.S.S.R. This necessarily
involves the negation of any right in a
minority to do anything contrary to the
majority interest.
For all practical purposes the legal
means described above will ensure file
rights of the people. Certainly the idea
of a power of veto in the hands of a
person not personally responsible to the
people is antithetical to British ideals. —
MacD. (Vic,).
Except in a limited number of cir-
cumstances —e.g., “personal preroga-
tives,” such as the appointing and dis-
missing of Ministers, and “the preroga-
tive of dissolution”—it is true that
Governors-General and State Governors
have almost become ciphers in matters
of public business, A Governor-General
or a State Governor can be held per-
sonally responsible in Australian courts
for his official actions, a rule of law which
Professor Berriedale Keith condemned
as being out of place “now that Gover-
nors have declined from the status of
potential despots to rubber-stamps.”
These observations are based on T. P.
Fry’s The Crown, Cabinets, and Parlia-
ments in Australia.
Fry points out that “personal preroga-
tives” certainly permit the Governor-
General or a State Governor to disregard
any advice tendered to him by his Execu-
tive Council, but ultimately he must
accept their advice unless he can put
alternative personnel in an Executive
Council who will tender him different
advice and also be able to remain in
power.
“The reason for this is that the courts
will refuse to recognise as valid any exer-
cise of any legal power of the Crown
with the exception of the ‘personal prero-
gatives,’ such as the appointment or dis-
missal of a Prime Minister (or Premier)
unless it is sealed or countersigned by a
Minister of the Crown. There must be
somebody else to accept responsibility
for any act done by the King, or the
Governor-General or by a State Governor
in his name, because the King, Governor-
General, or the State Governor cannot
be held personally responsible.”
It is a fallacy to assert, as “A.A.C.”
does, that the Queen and her Governors
are legally bound to reject Ministerial
and Parliamentary “directions” and bow
to the wishes of the people. Legally, the
question of direction cannot and does
not arise. The Crown, by tradition and
practice, enacts “by and with the advice
and consent” of the representatives of
the people in Parliament assembled. A
legal bond is something imposed by law,
and our Constitution has no law whereby
the will of the people can be expressed
other than through the ballot box.
Whether for good or ill, our Constitution
recognises neither the riot nor the bomb
as a legitimate means of influencing Gov-
ernments*
A chaotic situation, which would
render democratic government impos-
sible, would be created if the Sovereign
or the Vice-Regal representative chose
to veto a Parliamentary decision because
of an assumption that the majority of
the people were opposed to it. At what
stage of popular demonstration would
the Royal or Vice-Regal power be able
to determine what was “the clearly ex-
pressed will of the majority”? By letters
to the newspapers, by petition—“We, the
people of Australia,” in a variation of
the Three Tailors of Tooley-street—or
by large-scale rioting?
The whole purely hypothetical assump-
tion is fantastic. If such a stage of popu-
lar hostility against a measure or Gov-
ernment decision were ever reached, the
result would be revolution and the violent
overthrow of the Government concerned.
It is patently absurd to talk of a “tyranny
of Cabinet dictatorship” when members
of Cabinet are elected by the votes of
the party in power and carry out the
policy of the party as a whole, which has
been endorsed by a majority of the
electorate.
The political genius of the British
people has developed a system of demo-
cratic government as humanly perfect as
it is possible to achieve. — Clem Lack
(Q.).
The Wild Turkey
If Alec H. Chisholm and his brother-
naturalists (B. 30/6/’54) leave the fate
of the wild turkey to the dwellers of the
outback, then the bird is doomed to
extinction.
Since childhood I’ve watched the mas-
sacre of the wild bustard and can recall
the six or seven birds swinging behind
Dad’s sulky in the early days as he drove
triumphantly through town. Today the
light, high-powered rifle with telescopic
sight has replaced the “shottie,” and the
bird has no chance.
With many people it’s a matter of
economics, not ethics. Meat is expensive.
Breaking the law? Certainly, but nobody
gets pinched.
There is only one way to save our
harmless grey-and-white friend: Carry
out the law to the letter. One prosecution
would save a thousand birds; impassioned
pleas aren’t worth two-bob, —Quo Vadis
(Q.).
Grammar
“Virgil’s” remark on “this slipshod
style of writing” (B. 23/6/’54) gives the
whole show away. He is using journalese
himself, but it is the journalese of the past
which has become academically fashion-
able, just as the journalese of the present
will some day.
“Slipshod” is a metaphor derived from
shoe-making, and the writer who first
used it as a synonym for slovenly was
no doubt severely castigated by some
grammarian or other.
From that point of view Shakspeare
was the most journalistic of all writers
-—he certainly didn’t write academic or
even grammatic English. Some of his
gems of poetry which the professors
extol so much were doubtless picked up
in taverns.
I heard a bloke in a pub the other
evening describe a very ignoble charac-
ter: “He’s so low he could walk under
a snake’s belly without taking his hat
off.” If Shakspeare had heard that he
would have jotted it down in his note-
book and in due course something very
like it would have turned up in a
soliloquy of Hamlet. —C. B. (Vic.).
“Virgil” must believe the best in lan-
guage and literature is past, and that the
rules of a hundred or more years ago are
just as sound today. But in writing and
grammar no rule is right or wrong but
usage makes it so ; and current usage
must take precedence because it is closest
to life. English should be written today
as it is spoken today.
When the Australian language breaks
the laws of the pedagogues, then the laws
must change. Laws are only a means of
describing language; they arise from the
language and follow the language; and,
when the language changes, then the
rules of grammar must also change.
Anyway, style and all that is only
secondary; the main issue in writing is
communication. I find that if you look
after your meaning, your grammar will
look after itself. In this way you can
write what you mean rather than trying
consciously to follow an arbitrary set of
rules.
Writing English should be no more
difficult than speaking it. And you don’t
have to know the laws of grammar before
you can speak, any more than you need
to know the Law of Gravity to be able
to fall off a log.— Crunch (Vic.).
Robert Howie (B, 6/6/’54) is correct
when he says that “You are as good as
me” is not gibberish. The sentence is
perfectly good childish prattle or pass-
able “pidgin.” When inverted it becomes
“Me is as good as you,” and is on a par
with “Me wants my daddy,” or “Me
belong this place.”
What “R.H.” forgets is that grammar
in any language is a natural growth
influenced by heredity and environment.
The grammarian does not create the
language; he merely tabulates the rules
and reduces them to a formula.
Bad grammar is as offensive to the ear
as a badly-tuned piano or a false note
by a singer. “You are as good as me” is
an intellectual discord. “You are as
good as I am” is logically and phoneti-
cally harmonious, not because it con-
forms to a text-book, but because it is
in tune with the universe.— Jock W.
(S.A.).


MORE SHIMS!
with the NEW Fordson Major
Kerosene ,&*xModel
i
w*w.
i
■
WITH 14 x 28 6-PLY TYRES.
ALL THIS STANDARD EQUIPMENT
IS INCLUDED IN KEEN PRICE . . .
Power Take-Off . . . 2-speed Belt Pulley
... Lighting and Starting Equipment.. .
“Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor . . . Front
Wheel Track Adjustments . . . Radiator
Pressure Cap . . . Radiator Shutters
. . . Large Weatherproof Toolbox.
PRICE F. 0.8. FORD PLANTS
More Farm-right Features than in any other tractor
NEW 6 - SPEED TRANSMISSION six
forward and two reverse gears give the
right gearing for every farm job including
fast trailer work.
NEW “TOUCH-CONTROL” HYDRAULICS
provide instant control through one lever
—raising, lowering and holding implements
in intermediate positions.
NEW 3 - POINT LINKAGE allows fast
attachment of mounted implements.
NEW RANGE OF “CROWN” HATCHED
IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT for greater
versatility in “round the farm” maintenance
and construction.
And many more advances which your Ford
Dealer will show you.
■m
CBC 3
Also available in Australia's most modern Diesel-fuelled model
Your local Fordson Dealer will supply further details •
FO RP MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY LTD
FM6-448
Foreign Affairs
To outsiders one of the most
extraordinary features of the
Australian election campaign was
the virtual ignoring by both sides
of foreign affairs. With the
whole of South-Eastern Asia in
the melting-pot, and with Indo-
nesia providing an obvious Com-
munist stepping-stone from Asia
to the south-west Pacific, it is
astonishing that so little, if any,
attention should have been paid
to the world crisis in a country
which is next-door to the region
of Communist aggression.
H. R. (Fiji).
Hire-purchase and Inflation
A section of Sydney’s Press
has discovered tardily that a large
number of retailers are breaking
the N. S. Wales hire-purchase
regulations by offering goods to
consumers on extended terms
without deposit.
Anything from a set of sauce-
pans to a combined radiogram
and cocktail-cabinet can now be
bought in Sydney merely on the
purchaser’s signing a contract
to pay off so much per week.
It’s a cruel business, and it’s
not new. Those who lived
through the roaring ’twenties
and the depression will
remember the boom in player-
pianos. Hardly a slum-terrace
house was without one, and
when the inevitable repossessions
took place the horrible contrap-
tions could be bought for about
their value as firewood.
It was largely as a result of
the player-piano fiasco that the
State Government introduced
regulations governing hire-
purchase, but for some reason
Cahill’s “Labor” Government
has only lately heard of them,
and is talking about amending
loopholes or something.
The result is that hire-purchase
is wide open in N. S. Wales, and
is riding for a fall that will
eventually affect not only
purchasers, but retailers and
manufacturers as well.
The worst part of it is that
workers’ families who have
succumbed to the high-pressure
advertising of many consumer
luxuries have had to reduce their
food and clothing budgets to pay
them off, while there is always a
chance that a sudden change in
their economic conditions could
end in embarrassment and
complete loss of their equity.
The Government has the
remedy at its fingertips and, were
it worthy of its name, it would
do something to protect working
people from the inflationists,
particularly when the law already
exists to do so.
The Commonwealth Savings
Bank, traditionally the workers’
bank, has also fallen a victim to
the inflationary trend. At all
tellers’ windows in Sydney head-
office are notices urging
customers to open cheque
accounts, presumably with the
Commonwealth Trading Bank.
Apart from the fact that the
two banks are supposed to be
separate, it is wrong that a
savings bank should urge its
customers to open cheque
accounts, designed for the spend-
ing, rather than the saving, of
money.
If times did get bad —and we
certainly haven’t seen the last
of depressions—the wiseacres
and economists would blame the
man-in-the-street for overbuying
in the good times.
The fault would lie elsewhere.
—lnall (N.S.W.).
The greatest evil that I can see
in the hire-purchase system is
that the ready availability of
credit on this basis appears to be
destroying any incentive there
might have been to manufac-
turers to reduce prices.
Looking around Sydney I am
always impressed by the variety
of home-appliances displayed to
entice the housewife—and by the
prices. With the big demand for
appliances and machines
designed to lighten the burden
of wifely duties, and after nine
post-war years for local industry
to tool-up to maximum efficiency,
there should surely exist every
reason for a reduction in prices,
Refrigerators a dozen different
makes * ra j ’ from £lOO to
£250 in pr f ce f are powered by
Gne standard make of unit. The
difreren ce in the main lies in the
size and finish of the cabinet—
things that are stamped out of
sheet-steel like sausages out of
a machine. It is pretty apparent
that a tidy margin exists over
manufacturing costs to account
feting costs and prolit.-
<***>_
.
Secondary Education
Going by reports of evidence
given at the N. S. Wales
Secondary Education Inquiry,
several basic weaknesses of
secondary education are being
overlooked. The implication of
the name, “secondary education,”
presupposes a division in the
child’s education that is unreal.
If there were an examination
similar to the matriculation it
might be possible to say that the
child who has passed it is ready,
scholastically at any rate, to pass
on to the secondary stage. Such
an exam, (the Q.C., the Permit to
Enrol and the Primary Final, to
give it its successive names) was
dropped years ago, and it is not
suggested that it should be
restored. Its weaknesses far out-
weighed its usefulness. What
must also be removed is the
artificial barrier between primary
and secondary education.
Any investigation of secondary
education should include primary
education. The transition from
primary to secondary should be
as gradual as the transition from
infants to primary. That, of
course, would mean a revision of
the primary syllabus. In fifth
and sixth classes the child could
be getting a smattering of the
subjects he will be likely to meet
in his secondary course. Over
30 years ago Professor Mackie
wrote:
Changes in any one part of the
[school] system will affect the whole,
and, in particular, improvement in any
one part, as a rule, can only be
secured by improvement throughout.
Another aspect of secondary
education that needs careful
study is that of class-groups.
The present method of assuming
that, because a child has gained
a certain number of marks in his
yearly examination, he is ready
to pass on to the next year is
unreal in theory and harmful to
the child’s educational progress,
There are many pupils who are
up to third-year standard m
maths but are only first-year
standard in English, and vice
versa.
» has already been suggested
that there should be a four-year
a six-year course with the
could be scSnned
of Vf ars could be scrapped
wlth the su *> sUt “°" of f grades.
« MSS
English. At the Ind of his
scboo i_ b f e he could be given a
cerd fi ca te showing which grade
he had reac h e d in each of his
sub jects. The pupil who, at the
end c f t h e fourth year, had
rea ched the top-grades in most of
his subjects would be the one to
go on to the extra two years to
prepare for the tertiary stage of
education.
Classes are still too big. This
problem has been debated ever
since we have had State educa-
tion, but unfortunately there has
been no improvement. A class
of 50 assumes that all pupils can,
and insists that all will, move
along at the same rate. It is
impossible for a teacher to give
any pupil the individual atten-
tion that he needs in a large class.
None of these suggestions is
new or even very original.
Similar arguments have been put
forward for many years only to
meet with the same answer —
staffing and accommodation
problems. Many more teachers
and many more buildings are
needed to carry education along
in its present manner. Thousands
more still would be needed to
effect any of the much-needed
reforms. — Wackford (N.S.W.).
Shingles
It is strange that home-builders
have not made use of the once-
popular shingle for roofing. A
shingle roof, properly con-
structed, is just as waterproof as
a tiled roof ; it is much cooler in
summer, and, if made of the right
timber, will last for half a
century. Peppermint is regarded
as the finest of all shingle timber,
but many others are also suitable.
There are still a few shingle roofs
about the Sydney suburbs and
the country, some of them just
as good as when erected more
than half a century ago.—
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).


m
m
m
• • •
of course!
S.
The Spirit of Hospitality
m
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
fgvh
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage a*
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ds
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage i>
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
•DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 1 16
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Djs-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lorne Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
LAMB AND CROW
TN the Oxford Classics collec-
tion of Australian short-
stories there is a description of
a drought by Dowell O’Reilly, a
writer who died in 1923, which
illustrates very well the attitude
of the earlier Australian to the
agricultural hazards of this
country.
The story deals with the
horrors of crows pecking the eyes
out of young lambs, despite the
touching efforts of starving ewes
to protect them; of thirst-
maddened sheep bogged in water-
holes and being trampled into
the slime by stronger sheep trying
to get at the shrinking water ; of
soil blowing away, and descend-
ing in drifts that would soon
cover and smother a sick or
drunken man; of the sky
darkened by dust, while through
the gritty midnight comes the
voice of the crow, a sort of evil
chorus, a manifestation of the
obscene power which holds sway
in this country. A power so
horrific that the hero of the story,
a “Pommy parson,” is moved to
blasphemy.
It obviously didn’t occur to
Dowell O’Reilly that neither God
nor the Australian climate were
primarily responsible for -the
suffering of the sheep; that the
chief sinner was not the crow,
but the man who bred large
numbers of sheep without taking
the elementary precaution of
providing sufficient food and
water for them. That the so-
called drought, in fact, had been
a normal feature of the Aus-
tralian climate for century after
century, and that it was illogical
to expect this ancient cycle to be
dislocated for the benefit of the
grazier.
But the common theory was
that everything on earth had
been designed for the benefit of
man. And when it didn’t work
out like that, in harsh, raw
countries, man was shocked.
Even the possibility that this par-
ticular country may have been
designed for a very different type
of man, a nomad who followed
the game when the local surface-
water dried-up and game drifted
away (and this, of course, meant
that native grasses weren’t killed-
off) was not taken into account.
The aborigine, not being tied to
a few hundred or thousand acres,
never made the elementary error
of expecting the same amount of
rain to fall on the same given
area, year after year.
Even now, when we have avail-
able the rainfall records of 100
years, the need for restraint in
stocking and cultivation of the
land is not fully appreciated.
Restraint, a sober estimate of
what can be got from the land
in grass and crops over a period
of years, is important. Instead,
again and again, the most naive
optimism springs in the hearts
of men of long experience on the
land. Yes, in experienced men!
That is the truly remarkable
thing. A few exceptionally good
years and men with the hard
years behind them act as though
the good years will last for ever.
Such excessive increases in the
number of sheep carried ; such
inflation in the prices paid for
land; such credulous faith in
sowing large areas of exotic
pasture (which, on the whole,
has been growing well in the
recent good seasons); and, of
course, a few sneers at the con-
servative who still acts as though
he doesn’t know where next
year’s American car is coming
from.
Yet the conservative man, who
runs only half as many sheep per
acre as his neighbor; who sows
only half his pasture to clover
because he thinks there will come
a time when only the hardier
grasses native to his district will
grow; who ties-up as much
money as he can in great silos
full of grain, which he starts
feeding to his sheep while they
still, apparently, have plenty of
grass—this is die man who is in
tune with the seasons of our
erratic and unpredictable climate.
Though for eight years out of
10 he will be lectured for not pro-
ducing to the full capacity of his
land —that magic mouthful
when the bad times come he is
ready. The crows don’t pick the
eyes out of his sheep, for a well-
nourished ewe is capable of
defending herself and lamb ; his
sheep don’t get bogged in his big
dams, which are scooped regu-
larly ; no drunks are buried alive
by his drifting soil because it is
kept firmly anchored by a good
cover of grass; and no tender-
hearted English cleric is
harrowed into blasphemy on his
property.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
n'ow—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.
Wool Forecast
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture has published a preliminary
forecast of world wool-produc-
tion for the 1954-55 season. This
is estimated at 4420 million
pound greasy, or an increase of
500 million pound over the
current season’s level.
In Australia the upward trend
in sheep numbers has continued
into 1954. Some further increase
in wool-output in New Zealand
seems probable. In the other
major countries in the Southern
Hemisphere production is much
the same as for 1953-54.
The moderate upward trend
in wool-production, as a result
of a small increase in the
aggregate numbers of sheep, is
likely to continue in Europe and
Asia, with the exception of the
Soviet Union, where output may
decline slightly. U.S.S.R. has
had a severe winter, Soviet
losses may explain, in part,
increases in purchases in the
season just ended. North
American wool - output is
expected to decline owing to
smaller sheep-numbers in the
United States.
Illustrated Hint
Bale-loader made by P. Dono-
van, Learmonth (Vic,). Wheels
and axle of manure-spreader
were fitted to a wooden chassis
consisting of two pieces of 4in.
by Sin. about Bft. long, each
fitted with a ground-skid.
A platform at 7ft. above
ground-level is mounted directly
above the wheels, and is braced
by inclined members connected
to the skid-ends of the chassis.
These inclined members carry
the usual type of elevator, em-
ploying chains and angle-iron
cleats. The chain passes over
a pulley-shaft just under the
platform, and this is driven with
a crossed belt from a large
pulley on the axle. Two fairly
stout iron bars enable this im-
plement to be attached readily
to the side of a lorry, wagon
or trailer. Man stacking the
bales on the lorry receives them
from the platform chest-high.
Loader is detached and left
in the paddock while the loaded
lorry goes to the shed or stack.
(Victorian Department of Agri-
culture “Journal.”)
Farm Hints
“Coota”: Tip half a load of
creek sand under a shady tree for
the chooks some time. They like
a roll and a scratch.
“C.”: Satisfactory prepara-
tion for controlling weeds on
drives and tennis-courts is one
based on arsenic: mid-winter is
a good time to use it. For most
purposes lib. of arsenic-
pentoxide; care must be taken
to follow directions for use.
Normal precautions for poisons,
storing, separate container, etc.
“Macca”: Knock the iron
wedge out of a hammer and
bore a |in. hole straight down
through the eye into the handle,
about 4in. deep. Drive a piece
of round iron to bottom of hole,
fill top with a wooden peg, and
then bang in the iron wedge.
You’ll have a strong handle.
“Billjim”: Root-crops form an
important part of the winter diet
of pigs. If ample quantities are
available, give each pig a daily
allowance of l|lb. to 21b. of con-
centrates (containing at least £lb.
meatmeal) and make-up the rest
of the ration with root-crops.
“North”: Layer of thin rubber
between shoe and hoof gives
comfort to a tender-footed horse.
“Paddy”: An hour or so after
piglets are born, nip off teeth
close to the gums with a pair of
bone-forceps. They have eight
teeth (two on each side in both
upper and lower jaws), sharp as
the devil. Operation makes more
contented mothers.
“Ann”: Hen that has been
egg-bound for some time will
stand upright like a runner-duck,
but in early stages symptoms
are harder to detect. Coming off
the nest and cackling without
laying is an indication. Causes
of egg-binding are inflammation,
internal fat and shell defects.
Five or six pulsatilla pilules,
which any chemist sells, may be
given two days in succession. If
not effective in dislodging the
egg block, insert a finger into the
oviduct and break the egg-shell
with a bag-needle held against
the point of the finger to avoid
damage to tissues. All the shell
fragments should be carefully
removed.
“Toggenburg”: Before plant-
ing large patches of special
greens for goats, be sure that the
animals who are to benefit from
them have a liking for that
particular food. Goats are
individual in feeding, and it pays
to note any dislike. While three
animals rejoiced in gum-leaves,
I had one animal in the flock
who tired of it after a short time.
Incidentally, the goat has a great
liking for mistletoe, bark and all.
“K.”: Painter friend suggested
that shaking the tin of varnish
before beginning work was
disastrous to a good finish —too
many bubbles.
“C.A.A.”: Mules operation
can be done on well-grown lambs
at marking; advantage of opera-
tion at this time is that it gives
protection against fly-strike for
the rest of their lives.
“Big Billy”: Winter calls for
attention to the herb-garden. On
poorer soils fertilise with a five-
to-one mixture of blood-and-
bone and potash at 2oz. per
square yard. A light mulch of
organic-matter will also assist to
maintain herbs in a healthy
growth. Mint is an exception, as
it requires the organic-manure at
planting-time. Divide plants that
have become woody after the
third or fourth year. Outside
pieces are the most suitable for
replanting. Mint and chives will
do best if replanted each winter.
Cut leaves down to 2in, above the
ground before lifting.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illus-
trated is the
“ FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR. 9k
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young 1 St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott's (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
m.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARBERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAREEEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fgd
GUARD
PROTECTA ,
*k*nl- fe|( RtyUtzkLiiff
fgbh
gfj
h
Suitable for every type of business it records
•II Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly bollt N
pleasing la appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Fty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diatrihuiing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon it Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book 00, (Aust.)
Full 200 Amos
«
m
m
■■.l-:]:-:
:..x 33
■
a true
Heavy-Duty
WELDER
TRY IT WITH A 6 GAUGE ROD . . . That's the proof of a heavy-duty
welder. You can take a 6 gauge rod and run it continuously with Mobilco, the
farm welder of industrial performance. Guaranteed full 200 amps. . . . Simple
to with instruction book to help you do a first class job with very
little practice. The trailer is certainly handy. You can leave your welder on it
ail the time and just hitch and unhitch at will. Generator drives from telescopic
p.t.o. shaft. Trailer with pneumatic wheels and roller bearings fits any make
of tractor.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
heavy-duty welder.
Name
Address
SPECIAL CHARGING BOARD Is avail-
able so that you can use the machine
to charge batteries and a low cost volt
meter and adaptor can be fitted to
enable you to drive 32 volt drills, etc.,
from the welding generator at reduced
engine speed. The Mobi/co welder
can be bought on terms and it carries
a 6 months guarantee.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF4209 .... TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE; WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
Clay Ribbons
r pHE advice H. A. Ellis gave
■* to banana- and bean-growers
dependent on the Lower Gas-
coyne (Carnarvon, W.A.) for
water for irrigation is sound, and
follows the principle which pro-
vides for the natural conserva-
tion of fresh-water supplies in
desert areas. The reason given
(B. 14/7/-’54) for constructing an
impermeable strip across the
river - bed sands, however,
requires amplification.
The effective life of the clay
ribbon would be much increased
if a revetment of coarse wicker-
work were placed on the down-
river side of the trench con-
structed to hold the ribbon of
clay. This revetment is very
easily constructed by driving
stakes 2in. to Sin. in diameter
almost flush with the natural
bottom of the stream, at 18in.
centres, and then weaving in any
coarse brush or waste material.
On the arid (Red Sea) coast
of the Hedjaz, supplies of really
potable water invariably occur
on the landward (upstream) side
of abwab (“gates” or narrows),
in the wadi (dry desert gullies).
That is because a bob is the
surface manifestation of buried
ridges of hard, impermeable rock
underlying the sand floor of the
wadi. TTie ridges back-up the
underground waters seeping from
inland and also prevent con-
tamination by saline water from
the seaward side.
The clay ribbons recom-
mended by Ellis act in the same
way. At flood-height the lateral
sands, below the surface of the
alluvial plains on both sides of
the stream, are fed from the river,
and the water-table is raised for
several miles on each side. In
periods of drought—particularly
when the river-level is further
lowered by pumping the
process is reversed, and the
lateral sands feed water to the
river, thus lowering the water-
table and depleting the alluvial
plains of very valuable ground-
water; a risk not universally
recognised by irrigation
enthusiasts.
In extreme cases the lateral
sands are contaminated by
saline waters to such an extent
that wells become worthless.
Only rarely does over-pumping
for irrigation get the blame it
deserves for this.
L. OWEN.
Sugar Agreement
The Queensland Sugar Board
reports that the following cable
was received by the Premier on
July 8, from the Queensland
Agent-General in London;
World sugar price for 15 consecu-
tive days has been below range pro-
vided International Agreement. Price
last four days 3.17 cents. As quota
already cut by full 20 per cent, under
Articles 21 and 23 special working-
party appointed to urgently study
position comprising Executive Direc-
tor, myself as Chairman Statistical
Committee, together with representa-
tives of Cuba, Dominica, Japan,
Netherlands, United Kingdom and
United States of America.
On July 8 the spot-price had
fallen from 3,17 to 3.12 cents.
Handling the Bull
“Matador”: There’s an art to
it, like everything else. But a
few rules, gleaned from the ex-
perts, can help if you’re showing
a bull for the first time; with
the considerable handling this
involves.
Quiet bulls sometimes get up-
set at shows, and owners often
have that sort of proprietary
pride which ignores symptoms
and causes. Some things to watch
for: hosing—careless use of the
hose can cause a temporary
deafness, and doesn’t improve
the temper; chaff in the eye ;
soreness caused by a tooth com-
ing through; a severe cold; a
colony of lice around base of
horn, or ear; feeding upsets;
insufficient exercise; too tight a
halter; feed caked around teeth
or nose-ring.
Then, too, some bulls don’t
fancy the deep bed of straw
they get at the showground;
something like the man who
can’t settle on a soft mattress
after sleeping on the ground. A
young bull, isolated in a stall
for the first time, can fret him-
self into a dangerous mood;
likewise, a loose bull can cause
trouble if he comes near your
fellow, and there may be a
delayed reaction.
Sorghum
“Saw Gum”: Maize may be
the ideal carbohydrate-grain, in
many respects, for feeding stock.
For getting that desirable
“bloom” on fat stock before
market, particularly.
Unfortunately, in Australia,
there are somewhat severe limita-
tions to such concentration of
maize - growing; another
“American corn-belt,” with its
vast and flourishing livestock-
fattening industry, is unlikely.
Maize-production in Australia
has necessarily to be restricted
largely to narrow strips of
alluvial soil along our coastal
rivers and patches of volcanic
soil on the tablelands.
But further west in Queens-
land, and in northern N.S.W.,
where there is reasonable summer
rainfall, the limit cannot be seen
to a potentially great grain-
sorghum industry, which could
be our stock-fattening counter-
part of the American corn-belt.
Grain - sorghum has been
known for many years in Aus-
tralia, but only in recent years
have there been available short-
growing, erect-headed American
varieties suitable for ready
harvesting with normal wheat-
heading machinery.
With lucerne as a suitable
partner, a grain-sorghum belt in
Australia could have splendid
possibilities.
It is true that the Queensland-
British Food Corporation scheme
for the production of grain-
sorghum was a bit of a flop,
ranking in public imagination
with the African “ground-nut”
scheme, but it is hardly fair to
blame the crop for this failure.
Australian growers of grain-
sorghum, however, have a lot to
learn. A few years back it was
pathetic to hear these growers
blaming the Government, or
someone, for the absence of an
export market, while making no
attempt to conserve the grain
themselves ; and soon afterwards
losing heavily because they had
no reserve-feed for their stock
during drought. Nor has the
crop been utilised to any great
extent by feeding-off.
In this or other methods of
utilisation, a grain-sorghum crop
will provide valuable energy-
and heat-producing feed for all
kinds of stock. And not only in
the winter; by a succession of
sowings, and by choice of
varieties of different maturity,
feed can be made available for
that shorter, but sometimes
difficult, period in late summer
and early autumn.
For beef-cattle, particularly, a
mature grain-sorghum crop also
furnishes a necessary leaven of
abundant roughage in addition
to its grain.
Hammer- and other roughage-
mills have also now greatly
simplified the utilisation of
coarse fodder for other stock,
while the addition of molasses
and urea has also made coarse
fodders much more effectively
utilised by ruminating animals.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The heavy rains in the south-eastern part of Queensland
and *on the N.S.W. North Coast fulfilled the conditions of
the cycle of Uranus to a very marked degree and, unfor-
tunately, made the last report too late for “The Bulletin,”
as the station was completely cut off by the rising of the
water over London Bridge, our next creek.
This means the possible mitigation of the drier cyclical
season, as it would give follow-on rains after the general
rains of October. To other areas near Sydney it makes little
difference, as that cycle shows the good July rains; hut
these are strong on the coast and gradually decline as they
get to the western areas. The cycle of Uranus has very few
rainfall records, though Bathurst and Deniliquin may benefit.
The effect of the combined cycle is new, and its actual
application is not yet completely solved.
Kale
“Brassica”: The N.S.W. Milk
Board has lately been recom-
mending kale for winter milk.
This is a valuable forage-crop
for dairy-cows and other stock in
cold-climate countries like Eng-
land and New Zealand.
In these days, especially in
Australia, every effort has to be
made from the standpoint of
economy to utilise forage-crops
by grazing instead of cutting and
carting. But with kale, unfor-
tunately, much of the fodder is
lost by the leaves being knocked
off and trampled on by the
cattle in ordinary grazing.
Much of this loss may be
avoided by strip-grazing; there’s
a trick in this method with kale.
An electric-fence should be put
in front of the kale, just high
enough for the cattle to reach
one row underneath it.
There is, however, still one
problem, apparently not foreseen
by the Milk Board, to be over-
come in the growing of kale for
milk-production under the rela-
tively warm climatic conditions
of the milk zone in N.S.W.
Being a member of the cab-
bage family, kale is very subject,
under these conditions, to the
depredations of white-butterfly,
cabbage-moth and aphisr
Crosscuts
Manager of a U.S. Air Force
plant in the Philippines has been
adding dried buttermilk to
reconstituted milk ; improves the
flavor, and no increase in acidity.
Formula for 300 gals. of 3.2 per
cent, (butterfat) milk: water,
22501 b., low-heat milk-powder,
2021 b., buttermilk powder, 351 b.,
butter-oil, 801 b., salt, 250 z.
♦ * *
Hawaiian and Queensland
Governments and C.5.1.R.0.
have jointly commenced trials
with a number of insects which
attack lantana.
• • • •
Some Queensland graziers
have been pressing for the release
of the Indian insect Nupserha
antennata and the American
insect Mecas saturnia for
Noogoora-burr. They eat the
burr, but they also eat sun-
flower-seeds and were banned
some time ago.
m * s
Over 5000 head of cattle in the
Bundaberg district have been
taken to relief areas (“North
Queensland Register”).
* * m
The Standards Association of
Australia has issued, for public
review and comment, a draft
specification for the Babcock
test, which proposes the use of a
smaller pipette in order to get
slightly lower readings. It is
claimed that the test is thereby
made more accurate. Comments
should be addressed to the
Standards Association, Science
House, Gloucester-street, Sydney.


u
m
1
m
mm
They Answer Your Problems...
Each week compere Harry Dearth invites you to “Leave It to the Girls,”
featuring a, wittily feminine panel—Josephine O’Neill, Margo Lee and
Elizabeth Riddell—who give their wise views on listeners’ problems. George
Foster represents the male point of view on the panel and provides maijy
a laugh in this unusual and refreshing show.
"LEAVE IT TO THE GIRLS"
Presented by the makers of Malgic Adrenalin Cream.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2CA 2WL 2LF 2PK 2MG 2LT
2MW 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
Between
Ourselves
nxzdftjerpk6yrtjdj
srtojsrtkjrtj gfjdf
-—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
i
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
T .
La vina
range.
*>
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavxnas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
★
Every LAYINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and o
17-iewelled movement .
LAVtMA
WATCHES
that animal sound from his
throat, or had he really been
conscious of a presence? The
face of Tommy the Hawker
was more vividly before him
than he had ever seen it in life—
the oily skin, the rows of uneven
teeth, the malicious eyes beneath
a bang of black hair —and he
was convinced that if he had not
sprung up at that moment a pair
of thick hands would have been
grappling at his throat.
Yet there was no movement
by the bed. Padding out tenta-
tively through the dining-room
in his socks he reached the
office. So often had he rehearsed
this encounter with Tommy
the Hawker that he could have
carried out the movements when
fully asleep, and reaching above
the desk he felt for the shotgun
that was loaded in both barrels.
The flood of moonlight blinded
him when he stole out to the
veranda, but under the big
pepper-tree by Lottie’s room he
saw something stir. No clear
outlines, but a gleam of white.
The roar in Swasey’s ears
dazed him so completely that he
was back in bed with the shot-
gun on the floor beside him
before he realised how prompt
his reaction had been. His
imagination came to the aid of
his senses and filled-in the
picture of what happened. An
agonised grunt from Tommy the
Hawker, a leap in the air, a
dash through the wires for the
safety of the creek-bed, clutching
at his rear.
“Scuttled him!” he thought
triumphantly, as sleep closed
over him again. “No talk! No
running to law for protection ~.
My affair, Sergean’. My person’!
affair.”
TTE was late for breakfast
next morning, and McCon-
achie was half-way through his
steak and eggs with Lottie
pouring coffee at his elbow.
Both of them seemed pre-
occupied with the day’s work
ahead and hardly looked up
when he entered. Limping in
with a grin Swasey greeted them
boisterously, his face beaming,
his whole round body bubbling
with delight in his success.
“What a night!” he began.
“What a devil of corroboree!
No more trouble after this, I
guess, Sergeant. Settled it once
and for all. Cowardly attack
under cover of dark; enemy
repulsed with heavy losses.
Weren’t upset by the rumpus,
were you?”
McConachie looked up dourly
from his steak.
“What rumpus?”
“The shooting. Battle between
me and Tommy the Hawker.”
The girl filling his plate at the
sideboard looked sharply over
her shoulder.
“Didn’t hear a sound,” said
McConachie. “Fell asleep as
soon as my head hit the pillow.”
“Strike me Swasey
exclaimed. “I thought it was
enough to wake the dead.
Thought you’d both be up and
rushing round. Soon after mid-
night it must have been. Some-
thing tells me that brindle’s
prowling about so I slips out to
get the shotgun. Yes, there he
is. Trying to take cover behind
that big pepper-tree outside
Lottie’s room. Before he could
sneak away I ups with the gun
and lets him have both barrels
—one, two —quick as a horse
kicking. The yell he let out set
every dog in camp on the howl.”
Both McConachie and the
girl seemed unimpressed. There
was even a sceptical smile on
Lottie’s face and it was to the
sergeant rather than Swasey
that she said quietly :
“Tommy the Hawker —he’s
been gone this two days. Off
with his horse and cart down to
the Culgoa.”
“What!” rapped out Swasey.
“He tol’ me last Sunday he
was going,” she said. “Came
over here to say goodbye.”
“The low shyster,” Swasey
burst out. “That’s the cunning
of him. Pretends to be clearing
out and then doubles back.
Don’t tell me you didn’t hear
anything.”
“Didn’t hear anything down
there,” she persisted stubbornly.
McConachie looked at her
with a sudden alertness. ■
“Down there? What does
that mean? Where were you?”
“At the ol’ man’s hut,” she
told him. “That’s where I sleep
while the fam’ly’s away. Go
down as soon as I’ve washed up
the dishes.”
Gathering up the dirty plates
she went off with her tray across
the landing. McConachie,
casting a withering look at his
companion, rose from the table
and began to make ready for
the road. Forty miles to
Eromanga and a dry track at
that! He had become his
official self again—austere,
taciturn, glassy-eyed; and there
was a military stiffness about his
spine as he strode off to the
yards,
DUT a sour taste clung to his
" mouth, taking the freshness
out of the bright morning. There
was a hollow somewhere inside
him. He was overcome with a
feeling of disgust with himself,
with human blather, 'with the
illusory world that was so easily
evoked by the conjunction of
lies, liquor, and women.
At a bend in the creek he
dismounted, and taking the
tweezers from his big pocket-
knife began probing for the
grains of shot in the fleshy part
of his thigh.
all. I wished I’d known at the
time. . .
Later I heard that the Oracle
was gravely ill, and when my
second book came out, I sent
her a newly-minted copy. I still
have her letter of thanks!
“I have not very much time
left. I want to thank you and
many others for the happiness
you have given me”....
Thanks; to me; from the
Oracle!
I heard then that the Oracle
had refused to acknowledge that
she was ill —for as long as she
could bear. Our Stoic carried
on resolutely, collapsing at times,
sometimes in public; denying
dominance of the eneipy she had
always despised. She must have
given many a thought in those
days to all the sick girls she had
lashed with ridicule. But at least
she showed that she could do
what she had always nagged us to
do—she could take it!
Before that final suffering my
own woes faded into a thin mist.
For a brief interlude I saw my-
self as a pigheaded kid who had
withstood authority, challenged
its laws, and fancied myself dif-
ferent from my kind.
Poor old Oracle ; barren, un-
wed, unloved even; with no
single chick of her own to grow
numb with grief at her passing...
Ah, well, she was as game as
they come. But it took half a
lifetime to discover it.
of the two compositors. So he
didn’t last long, and for a while
after that the “Argus” had such a
succession of comihg-and-going
editors that we rarely maintained
the same policy for three months
on end—that is, if we had a
policy, a detail I have forgotten.
Times were bad. Advertise-
ments were difficult to obtain,
subscribers were slow in paying,
and the paper was perpetually in
financial difficulties. I remember
once, when I had had no wages
for a month or more, asking
Hugh Cameron timidly for some-
thing on account. He handed
me ninepence—all he had in his
pocket, or maybe in the world,
at the momnt.
At that time we had as editor
a real huer-and-crier named
Willoughby. x Like all of us, he
was never able to get all his
salary in one piece, and soon
after my approach to the boss
we heard Willoughby in the next
room, bellowing threats that if
Hughie didn’t cough-up the £l9
he owed him he’d pin his ears
back. The boss spoke soothingly,
but Willoughby, having lost his
temper and with it the sound
impartial judgment that editors
are supposed to possess, pro-
ceeded literally to carry out his
further threat to “take it out of
his hide.”
There was scuffling and the
sound of blows; then out
staggered Hughie, looking bloody
and bowed. As the flood-level
of Willoughby’s hate receded he
was most apologetic, and the
boss benignly agreed not to
charge him with assault and
battery if he’d call the account
square and get out of town by
the first train. He went!
I cannot recall any outstanding
news-stories during the couple
of years I spent on the “Argus.”
I do remember, however, the
astonishment of the inhabitants
when an enterprising showman
brought the first motion-pictures
to Wyalong. They were “flicks”
indeed ; but in a minirtg-town-
ship, where the only entertain-
ments were scratch concerts,
street fights and a one-trombone-
power Salvation Army band, the
innovation was hailed with joy.
Our editor (Willoughby was in
the chair at the time) was
rapturous in his praise, and with
uncommon prescience assured
his readers that in years to come
motion-pictures would indubit-
ably have great educational as
well as entertainment value.
One wonders what his
comment was when wireless and
the talkies—not to mention
motor-cars and aeroplanes,
unknown in those days—brought
small towns into close touch with
big ones ; or whether he lived
long enough to run a paper that
used teleprinters, and was able to
publish radio-pictures of world-
shaking events within an hour or
two of their occurrence ten-
thousand miles away. I hope so,
for he was a good editor while
he lasted.
• • • «
The “Argus” was able to dis-
pense with its two adult composi-
tors within a year of my appoint-
ment (it must have been a severe
shock to the keeper of the local
pub), and from then on the
whole of the composing work
was done by a lad named George
Brown, who had succeeded me as
printer’s devil, and myself.
The boss had a brainwave,
and told us that we had each to
set two columns of type daily
and could then ' knock off,
irrespective of the time we
finished. Brownie and I put our
heads together, and in the
summer used to start work at
5 a.m., and finish our four
columns about five or six hours
later. The rest of the day we
spent in the bush, cutting wood
for George’s uncle at so much
a cord, thus obtaining some
greatly appreciated pocket-
money.
It was a very satisfactory
arrangement all round. We
developed our muscles, and soon
learned to make the chips fly like
professional axemen. At the
same time I became a pretty slick
type-setter, and when I went to
Sydney later had no difficulty in
holding my own with the best of
the city-trained comps.
But ,in the absence of a world
war none but a highly-skilled and
capable helmsman can keep a
drifting newspaper off the rocks.
Hugh Cameron lacked all the
essential qualifications, and
though he worked like a beaver,
and stretched his credit to the
most extreme lengths, the fate of
the “Argus” was fixed, and the
day came when in a mournful
editorial we bade farewell to our
handful of subscribers, shook
hands solemnly with one another
and went home to break the bad
news that the “Argus” was a
total wreck.
To the best of my recollection
our subscribers took the news
calmly. Obviously the paper had
not been exactly a driving force
in the community. Hugn
Cameron shed a tear or two. We
■ tried to make a joke of it; but
it didn’t seem funny.


FROM AN ANTIQUE
* LAND
by Julian Huxley—the diary of an
extended journey through the Middle
East by a modern traveller, acute of
mind and eye and gifted with pen and
camera. Under his pen flourish empires
of 4000 years—dark, bizarre and
hostile. Whether discussing education
with King Abdullah or visiting ancient
tombs and temples, there is little that
escapes this restless, enquiring mind.
27 colour, 39 black-and-white photo-
graphs. 31/- (post 1/1.)
THE MEMOIRS OF A
BUCCANEER
by Louis Le Golif —being the
adventures and amours of a 17th
Century buccaneer, as told by himself.
This is perhaps the most picturesque
document to come to light within recent
years. Translated from the original
French, it reveals a fascinating,
exciting and often hilarious tale of
17th Century life at sea—of voyaging
among tropical islands, of plundering,
feasting, duelling and drinking.
30/9 (post 9d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other hooks you need — you’ll find them all at . • •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.I.
it The heroic story of
Douglas Bader
REACH FOR THE SKY. by Paul Brickhill
“ Will stir a glow of pride in every British heart.”
—RICHARD PAPE, M.M.
“ This story takes its place beside that of Captain Scott.”
—HENRY LONGHURST, SUNDAY TIMES
Illustrated, 21/-
COLLINS From All Booksellers. PUBLISHERS
the vaudeville blackout-spot in one of
the Rolls shows of between-wars where
dear old Granny is shown in her wheel-
chair luxuriating in morning-limelight,
and an ingenue-lead enters saying,
“Hullo, Granny, and how are you feel-
ing on this lovely spring morning?” To
which Granny replies hoarsely, “Bloody
awful!” No doubt, Mr. Bladen says
much the same thing:
She has lovely soft
Golden hair, powdered snow touched lightly
At sunset by gently
Enriching wands of suffusing light (but as
she coughed,
See how the poor body wracked with
unsightly
Suffering shuddered! and evidently
Paralysed, trembling with rhythmic ague
which
Never will leave her still, see how her wasted
Hands are churning beneath the flimsy
quilt!)
But it rather piles on the agony ; and it
strikes one that as a district-visitor Mr.
Bladen is somewhat of a Job’s-com-
forter:—
Would you like us to sing you
A favorite hymn? Yes, it’s cold, dear, it’s
very
Cold —and such a large room! Did they
bring you
A little packet of confectionery?
Your poor old hands are chilled from rest-
ing above
The blankets!
But then it emerges that the
old one is by way of being a poetess, and
Mr. Bladen has brought along another
poet to talk to her, and this seems to
please her no end ; so perhaps he knows
his business better than at first it appears.
Moreover, Mr. Bladen went out to see
the old ladies, whereas the reviewer did
not —that puts one right offside.
So that what Mr. Bladen presents us
with is not an enigma but a dilemma;
a charming and clear poem, somewhat
loosely constructed, treating matters
from which we shrink with a sympathy
which for that reason we are unable to
share. For an almost complete poetic
enigma you have to go to the book sent
by Meanjin with Mr. Bladen’s work,
With A Hawk’s Quill, by James Picot.
Born in England, Picot came to Aus-
tralia in 1923, at 17, graduated B.A. at
the University of Queensland, and re-
ceived a Licentiate of Theology, but
declined to be ordained. He enlisted in
the A.I.F. in 1941. Interned in Changi,
he was sent to labor in Burma and then
in Siam, where he died in 1944 of pel-
lagra, beri-beri and dysentery—the last
man of the Bth Div. Signals to die in
Siam.
Mr. Christesen has made a beautiful
book of his poems, though the spacing
of lines on some pages leaves a good
deal to be desired,
Brian, forgive me that I cannot be
At once, blithe, quickly eloquent of these
Natural things—bird-calls, your mango-trees
And the heavy warm hale wind in the
mulberry
Whose black, full fruit we crush here,
treading by
He had in this sonnet to Brian Vrepont,
as elsewhere, a deft, firm hand with
words; but what those words mean in
most of his poems it would be hard to
say, so hard that it takes one S. Musgrove
seven and a half pages of “Meanjin” No.
1, 1954, to analyse “James Picot’s use
of T. S. Eliot” in the one 20-line poem,
“For It Was Early Summer,” whose only
direct statement is that “Madelaine came
running up the stair.” To Mr. Mus-
grove’s subtle diagnosis the reader is
warmly commended: it makes the point
pretty conclusively that Picot’s poem is
a series of intellectual harmonics derived
from parts of several Eliot poems which
are already mental harmonics in them-
selves—whether, when all these have
been disentangled, the result is worth the
effort, is another matter.
Souvenir Section
Anyone who could criticise this bevy
of Royal-tour books would find fault
with a frothing of debutantes. There are
beings like that: you see them in the
Tivoli stalls staring at their programmes,
or on the beaches gazing out to sea. They
get picked as judges of beauty contests,
and sit there with a tape-measure and a
weighing-machine and differentiate be-
tween dreams of delight, like the wine-
tasters at the Show. In time they die
happily, at the South Pole, and the
world’s a warmer place without them,
even if the South Pole’s a lot colder. Let
us praise;
Australia: Royal Visit: Official Com-
memorative Volume: 1954. —At once a
thing of beauty and a joy for as long as
your visitors don’t pinch it. You could
no more use an expression like “dust-
jacket” for this red-and-gold symbolising
of roses and thistles and shamrocks and
leeks than you could call what’s around
the contents a book-cover. They are acts
of homage; and so are these end-papers,
with designs of aboriginal rock-carvings
and the white ghost of a map showing
how much of this fair land the Royal
visitors didn’t see. The style of the letter-
press is dignified, historical, addressed to
a discerning Posterity. The photographic
record is representative, and some of it
in color; and if anyone should feel that
the parlor-pink of Mr. Menzies’s face
perhaps misrepresents his political views,
or that when seen here the Queen looked
rather less like a Red Indian—any such
carp at large has only to turn to the
color-reproduction on page 63 of the
Queen in her gown of yellow tulle em-
broidered with wattle, and if that doesn’t
stun him his soul’s dead, and he’s no
patriot, and his taste’s in his boots, and
may he die in them. Excuse the en-
thusiasm, but this official record, pre-
pared by the Australian News and Infor-
mation Bureau, Canberra, and published
by Angus and Robertson, is such an
improvement on past official publications
that there’s hope for “Hansard” yet.
The Royal Visit to New Zealand:
Commemorative Volume. —Published by
A. H. and A. W. Reed for N.Z., and in
Australian and British editions by Angus
and Robertson, this one gives the name
of the writer of the letterpress accom-
panying the photographic record: no
disembodied soul dictating in measured
numbers to Clio, but a human chap
named J. M. D. Hardwick, who noticed
things like this: “Nearly a thousand
gathered near the cathedral entrance, sit-
ting on the pavement edges, resignedly
emptying water out of their shoes at
intervals, and consoling themselves with
the reflection that their discomfort could
be no greater than that of Britons on
Coronation Day.” In their turn, the Royal
visitors, showing that sense of reciprocity
which has characterised the British race
from time immemorial, in peace and war,
listened elsewhere to the Kokatahi Band,
who wore “red shirts, white trousers and
bowyangs” and played “accordions,
twanging jews’ harps and scratchy
fiddles.” And these touches of intimacy
are most pleasingly enhanced by the
decorations showing Maori head-carv-
ings with their tongues out.
Our Queen Visits Australia and New
Zealand. —Whereas in both the official
Australian publication and the separate
New Zealand volume the pictures domin-
ate the letterpress, in this one, put out by
Dymock’s to wrap inside the one golden
embrace the Royal tour of both places,
the wordage is the main ingredient; those
“intimate details” of the Queen’s child-
hood and onwards which have been made
familiar by serial publication, and which
may perhaps be sufficiently praised by
the pet-name of the author, “Crawfie.”
And yet, though “Crawfie” does, as the
racing people say, make all the running,
and has, in fact, her head still in front at
the finish, a swabbing of the field gives
the race to the other runners to divide
more r or-less evenly between them —the
picker of the pictures and the designer of
the layout, Frank Hodgkinson. The
designing, as well as placing the pictures
where they will look best, accepts that
pictures and captions are complementary,
best seen together as happy married
pairs, instead of the captions, which,
being the lesser, may be considered the
husbands, going into smoke in a group
at the foot of the page or some other
hiding-place, like a huddle of grass-
widowers trying to avoid conjugal obli-
gations or alimony. When you meet the
pairs together, as Mr. Hodgkinson prefers
to have them, they are so much easier
and nicer to know. It gives them an
aura of connubial bliss which may per-
haps be foreign to Canberra, and which,
too, reminds us now that today is payday.
Reviewed Briefly
The Evening Listens: Ruth Ainsworth
(Heinemann). Miss Ainsworth has read
Wordsworth and writes a few pages of
verse in the style of “The Prelude,” redis-
covering her childhood delight in a daisy,
a butterfly, a cockle-shell and a shepherd ;
also a number of smaller lyrics, of which
a sample is: —
The sunshine through bare branches breaks
In waves of early daffodil,
While snow lies white upon the hill
And little pools are turned to lakes
And poets wander where they will.
The verses have a thin, light charm; but
mostly they serve to illustrate what must
always be astonishing to an overseas
reader, how weak is the average book of
verse published in England once you get
away from the few leaders, usually pub-
lished by Faber. Fantastically overpraised
in a foreword by Edith Sitwell, who com
pares him with Clare and Traherne,
Leonard Clark in English Morning
(Hutchinson) is also very slight. In
several romping poems of childhood—
“l raced, in the flush of my childhood,
from the top of a hill, madly on turf”—
he distantly echoes the delightful later
nature-poems of Dylan Thomas ; and for
the rest explores the English countryside
with less technical command than Miss
Ainsworth, but with deeper feeling and
a keener eye as he follows the hedgehog
when “Dew fell on the dusty beetle,
hollowed leaf.”
* • * ♦
In the Mesh: Jean-Paul Sartre
(Dakers). The Existentialist here presents
a talkie-scenario about the displacement
and trial of a dictator, who set out to
free his country from foreign domination
and nationalise its oil-fields, and found
on getting power that his more-powerful
neighbors, who owned the oil-rights,
would declare war if he nationalised. So
he didn’t. The trial brings up his past
life ; his struggle for power, his choice and
use of mistresses, his political murders,
his suppression, of necessity, of his best
friend. The scenario ends with the first
interview given by the honest and noble-
hearted patriot who succeeds iiim, and is
a repetition of the interview in which the
Ambassador for the country owning the
oil-rights threatens war if they are nat-
ionalised. There is something a little
faded and served-up in these dishes of
love and politics; M. Sartre has not
written a great tragedy, but a passable
film.
♦ * * ♦
The Wishful Think: Bernard Newman
(Hale). Spy-stories are apt to be a bore ;
and when you have said that this one
has the bright idea of making a humble
but telepathic Englishman the receiver of
the thoughts of an important member of
the Soviet Government who plots for, and
gets, supreme power; that it bandies
about the names of Mr, Churchill and
Mr. Eden, as able to forestall Soviet
diplomacy on information thus received ;
and that there is a good turn when the
English receiver begins to put ideas into
the Russian’s head—then you have said
everything except that it is not carried-
out well enough to prevent its being
boring.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 288
Across
I—Lee’s soldiers Tight instalments
among G-Men and curators. (10)
s—What5 —What Roman lump of tobacco is
sovereign? (4)
9—An actress named Hasso and a
wooer named Juan are engaged.
(6, 2)
10—A ruler is keeping mum for a
start when manufacturing. (6)
12— Leg between the first person and
a Hebridean “island of the
Druids.” (4)
13 — Eyesore canonised you. (4)
14— Do you jest for one of the knotted
cords in the Inca’s mnemonic
language? (5)
16— X-squared has X-cubed in the
ravine. (5)
17— Stared into features of good
tyres. (6)
19—Removes the underclothing. (6)
21 —These horses are involved in
arson. (5)
24 — East Lake is weird. (5)
25 It isn’t hard to be a midshipman.
(4)
26 — See a boy dressed 1804 years ago.
(4)
28 —Airborne trumpeters and flautists
in a position to be scented. (6)
29 Cupid with a moustache leading a
backward otter. (8)
30 — lam in the cackleberry island of
the Hebrides. (4)
31 — Instep pronouns about Asiatics.
(10)
Down
1 — Birds leave catapults. (8)
2 Go in car. (anagram) (7)
3 Coward upset Leon during the
festive season. (4)
4 A game stipendiary magistrate
with a flower member of a school
staff. (12)
6 Integrated French one if that is
pennies. (7)
7 Trench of the French foot afflic-
tion. (3-3)
8— Vessels commissioned to make
war-time captures like islands
mother squares badly. (9)
11 —Somebody rears an extinct N.Z.
bird in Apia and thereabouts, but
not in Pago Pago. (7, 5)
15 —A copper puts Penelope over
two. (9)
18 —This makes a vehicle refuse an
Australian freighter joker who
took' bad news to Macduff? (8)
20—Davis Cup player suggests what
will conceal baldness for a buck.
(7)
22 Substances dissolved like musical
instruments. (7)
23 Waste to decline. (6)
27—A Rhode Island article in song.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 287


II
'm
iMkM
Mu//.
wm/d,
■ , I K
1; ! '•; I
gm.*,
;\ U
! Y-
miff:
v J ////A /,//,
*4^ t V/\\ / - "NE V 7//////// / ////
//f/y/// / ,////
■UmJskL
M££VX‘-
,\\ i i
&/)C\ / I
11 Il ni'h'L-
IjPi II lj li l! 1
11 !In !' 11 i 'i' a
V/
V
1 \
r.#
\ '; T \ \
\. w
! 7i / 'LI J 1 1' 11 '
dtrnn- t iij ~jr,
%? *T| jffj
i‘ ill !
/y/ '
\
A
//'
rr*
/ ///
nil
~-x—j— i~-i~
i / 1 •*
In
/ /
I
11
%
AWfl
// /
'•* /■/.//
o\\\ \\
*
/
1
2?
>
/ ;///
/
.v/7.7;
i
/ /.•■■/ /
Zu>
"V
i
**
/. /y
!&v1
Jii
y\
>*- >•
■v »f »
%x y
IAo
JMB
s.r
i
Ste
&
- p.
“i
w\
V!
♦ *.
W*
*v**
A.
ur
V
%
V\\
*****
The young lady in the fashionable gown turned again to the
bureau and took up the quill.
“This grand road,” she wrote, “appears at a distance like an
immense avenue of foliage and verdure. A charming freshness
and an agreeable shade always pervades this continuous bower,
the silence of which is interrupted by the singing and chirruping
of the richly plumed parroquets and other birds which inhabit
it . .
The year was 1802 and the road she was describing was the 15
mile long Parramatta Road, built in 1794 from Sydney to
Parramatta, and, apart from the roads within the settlement,
Australia’s first real road - “almost wide enough everywhere
for three carriages to pass abreast.”
To-day, 151 years later, the Parramatta Road has a carriage-
way sixty feet wide and carries the heaviest traffic of any road
in New South Wales.
★ ★ ★
Despite its vastness (the distance from Sydney to Perth is far
greater than from London to Moscow) and its relatively small
population, Australia’s roads to-day stretch 510,514 miles
throughout a total area of 2,974,581 square miles. Excluding
tractors and trailers, these roads of ours carry 1,748,407
motor vehicles.
Here are some figures which will be of interest:
New South Wales has a total of 127,337 miles of roads; Victoria,
104,648; Queensland, 134,858; South Australia, 52,112;
Western Australia, 76,708; Tasmania, 12,910; Australian
Capital Territory and Northern Territory, 1,941. Responsi-
ann
bility for road construction and maintenance is borne by a
Board, Commission or State Department in each of the States.
These bodies plan road systems, provide financial and technical
assistance to local governing bodies or themselves undertake
the building and maintenance of roads.
In general, there are three types of roads and road surfaces:
Highways (concrete and bitumen), Main Hoads (gravel, with
bitumen where warranted), and Secondary Roads (natural
earth).
Australia’s greatest feats of road building occurred during
World War 11. Spectacular things were done-—and playing
a major role were 44 the big yellow machines.”
To-day, Australia is pushing ahead with new road construction
to serve the ever-increasing population. And Caterpillar equip-
ment is helping to get the job done.
Remember 44 the big yellow machines” when next you cruise
along the highways with their carefully graded curves, their
gravel shoulders and concrete culverts. That man you see at
the controls of a No. 12 Motor Grader or Caterpillar Track-
type Tractor on a lonely stretch of road is making it possible
for you to get there —— and very often he’s alone for weeks at
a time, camping out until his task is finished, working in
scorching sun and bleak cold getting the job done for you ,
with 44 the big yellow machine.”
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS PEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
lAS.; WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Marie
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
' 1 . 11l f’ r ' I *’ 7, ■f f -\ t * IT! r ||ir:
Distributors:
W. AUST.; WIOMORES LTD.. PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO.. ADELAIDE.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED. LAE.
CN53.FPB
