

THE HOUSE
dsf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
INK AND ADELAIDE
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3898
Wednesday, October 5T7, 1954 •'
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
STARK TRAGEDY COULD STILL HAUNT HERMITAGE CASTLE
THE square and massive keep of Hermitage Castle, one of the oldest
. baronial buildings in Scotland, stands beside the Hermitage River in
remote Liddisdale. It presents a picture of melancholy desolation in keeping
with its violent history, which began about the year 1244 when it was built
by Walter Comyn, Earl of Menteith. The surrounding territory, at that time,
belonged to the powerful barons of Soulis, who later captured and held the
castle. In 1320 William, Lord Soulis, was accused of conspiring against
Robert Bruce. According to legend he was also accused of sorcery and so
oppressive was his rule over the territory that his infuriated vassals finally took
him to a nearby hill and broiled him alive. His spirit is still reputed to haunt
the castle ruins, „ , ,
After the dead of Lord Soulis, Hermitage Castle passed into the
possession of Sir John Graham, Lord of Abercorn. The heiress of this baron
conveyed the castle and estates to her husband, Sir William Douglas, known
as the Black Knight of Liddisdale, and who rose to high distinction during
the reign of David II of Scotland and the castle became his principal strong-
hold.
Hermitage was the scene of a brutal murder in 1342 when Sir Alexander
Ramsay of Dalhousie was seized at Hawick by Douglas and carried off to
remote Hermitage, where he was thrown into a dungeon without food and
left to die. The unfortunate prisoner prolonged his existence for a period
by eating the few grains of corn which fell from a granary above the vault in
which he was confined. Excavations in the 18th century uncovered this dungeon
and revealed a human skeleton. , , .
In 1355, during the border warfare, the fortress was taken by the
English, but a year" later they were expelled from the western marches of
Scotland, and Hermitage again came into the possession of the Earl of Douglas.
In later years, Hermitage was occupied by James, Earl of Bothwell, who. when
lying wounded there in 1566, was visited by-Mary Queen of Scots, who ioi...
in haste from Jedburgh. . . , ,
The castle, consisting of four rectangular towers connected by curiam
walls, was immensely strong and was protected by the river on one side
and on the other three by a deep morass which could be flooded in time of
need.


You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from am
where Quick service moderate charges.. • •
Write to BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road,
Darling Point.
The Red Page
A LAWSON CHECKLIST
Mr. Walter Stone, editor of “Biblio-
news,” the official organ of the Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia, has
earned the gratitude of all admirers ot
the writings of Henry Lawson with the
publication of his Henry Lawson: A
Chronological Checklist of his Contribu-
tions to “The Bulletin’’ (1887-1924), pub-
lished by Mr. Stone at 64 Young-street,
Cremorne (N.S.W.).
Listed in this interesting and helpful
checklist are 430 stories, poems and
articles written by Lawson beginning
with “Song of the Republic,” his first
Bulletin contribution, printed on Octo-
ber 1, 1887, and ending with “Coeur de
Roi,” which appeared on December 13,
1924, a little more than two years after
his death.
Included in the checklist is also a
“Select List of Bulletin References to
Henry Lawson,” which lists 55 references
commencing with an unsigned article on
Lawson printed in 1895, and ending with
Cj “Henry Lawson and Bret
by James Edmond, printed in
[r. Stone does not explain why
■4 to close the list of references
n at 1928 instead of bringing it
e. The writer of this notice can
ay articles about Lawson printed
Bulletin since 1928; he was
tonsible for three himself, one
George Mackaness’s biblio-
)f Lawson’s books, another on
Lawson memorial at Eurunderee
‘ S.W.) and a third called “Henry
n-.t r.nd the Lawson Country.” It is
it Mr. Stone will remedy the
in any future edition of his
, is teresting to note that Lawson,
like many others who later became
famous Bulletin names, made his first
■appearance in the paper in the “Answers
lo spondents” column. In an
“Youth” The Bulletin said:
four lines are best. Try again,”
i h s the four lines. Other answers
apaerucr in the same year, indicating
;'u suffered rejections before accept-
, his preface Mr. Stone contends
that ‘it <s possible that ‘Song of the
KtpulTc’ was first submitted as ‘The
Ou cot Drum,’ as that phrase occurs in
the poem, and there is a reference in
u, f zo Correspondents’ on July 30,
188“ H A.L.: “The Distant Drum” is
Vigorous ut some lines are faulty. It is
worth rewriting.’”
One would have liked Mr. Stone to
have extended his interesting but all too
hriet preface. He refers to the contra-
dictious that occur in various accounts of
Lawson."' association with The Bulletin
in the published reminiscences of Law-
sou;. contemporaries. Even Lawson him-
self 0 nor ilways to be relied upon. Mr.
Stone .UK is one instance of inconsistency
< i Law ’s part. In telling the story of
he sub >ion, acceptance and publica-
tion o. s first printed contribution,
“Song' : of he Republic,” Lawson wrote
lictory versions, one in a “Red
cle “Pursuing Literature in
Austral) n 1899, and another in a Lone
Land , art cle, an excursion in auto-
no;'.'. called “Henry Lawson's Early
Days,” printed in 1908.
! c on wrote for The Bulletin con-
sistently roughoul the whole of his
■ c, a period of 35 years.
as (rough he wrote for other papers as
. : ; ! : : i lk, and the best, of his work
The Bulletin. He was never
s the more steady going, less
trd Dyson, for example, but
irs he built up a substantial
mass of first class material, much of it
the best that has been written in this
country.
Surprisingly, a lot of Lawson does not
appear in book-form —the “Elderman’s
Lane” and “Previous Convictions” series,
and some of his “Red Page” articles, for
instance. Of the latter one remembers
his “Pursuing Literature in Australia,”
“Bohemia Buries Her Dead” (on the
death and burial of his friend Herbert
Lowe), “Back Home,” and “My Friend,”
an article on Bertram Stevens, who died
six months earlier than Lawson. One
would also like to sec in book-form his
Murrumbidgee and Leeton sketches.
Mr. Stone's checklist is evidence of the
considerable interest in his life and writ-
ing displayed by his contemporaries.
Buried in The Bulletin files is a great
wealth of material useful to students of
Lawson. Many of his colleagues wrote
about him on the “Red Page” and else-
where in the paper. Among them were
A. G. .Stephens. J. Le Gay Brereton, H.
Cargill, E. J. Brady, Alex Montgomery,
Mrs. Campbell Pracd, Rodcric Quinn,
R. J. Cassidy, David McKee Wright,
Mary Gilmore, S. H. Prior, Randolph
Bedford, Jim Grahame and James
Edmond. Some of this material was
reprinted in Henry Lawson by His Mates,
edited by J. Le Gay Brereton an 4 Bertha
Lawson, but much awaits publication in
book-form,
The chief value of this checklist is
that it is an index to Lawson’s writings
as originally printed in The Bulletin,
an d as such makes any research-work on
Lawson’s Bulletin writings much easier.
The checklist also contains an inci-
dental interest in so far as that certain
highlights in Lawson’s life are evident
even from a reading of a chronological
list of the titles of his writings. While in
scores of poems and stories Lawson went
back again and again to the years of his
boyhood at Eurunderee—most of it auto-
biographical—he never allowed too long
a time to elapse before committing to
paper his immediate experiences.
Thus a list of his writings according
to time of publication bears traces of
his wanderings and the events of his life.
Qne can trace his journeys to West Aus-
tralia, the back of Bourke, New Zealand,
England, his visits to the scenes of his
boyhood, his sojourn on the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation-area. Listed in chrono-
logical order are his literary quarrels, the
birth of his children, his literary associa-
bon with Miles Franklin, a spell in a
convalescent home and other happenings
j n bis life which he used in stories and
verse.
Qne would welcome more checklists of
t b j s description, and it is to be hoped that
Mr. stone will find time to do others,
Such lists are keys to a great amount of
ma t e dal locked up in the files of periodi-
ca j s —much of it worth reprinting in book-
form
W. E. F.
Miss Gaskin and History
Years ago, “Punch” quoted a newspaper
ar tide to the effect that a girl of sixteen
h a d a picture hung in the Royal
Academy’s exhibition, and commented
that this did not matter—as she was so
yQ ung there was still hope for her.
Catherine Gaskin, who published her
Erst popular romance This Other Eden
at tbe age Q f seventeen, has never looked
s i nC e then ; but the ballyhoo that
attended her first book still tends to pre-
judice the reader.
As re p or t s D f big American offers for
her new novelj Sam Dane (Co llins), may
fi aV e indicated, it is a good story. Had it
heen a first book tQ wb i c h one came
with no preconceived ideas, one would
have judged it to be the work of a
yoUn „ wr (ter with a .promising ability to
teb a tale t 0 cons truct a plot, and to
handle a |arge number of well-rounded
c b arac t ers . it tells the story of a convict
woman who became a wealthy and
soc j a y y _p rorn i nen t Sydney citizen. In a
note author stresses that, although
Sam , s career has many similarities to
tbaj , of Maf Re i by tb j s j s no t a portrait
of that lad but « is base d on the
assumpt j on tbat wba t one woman can
SQ P another.”
> . no?
TJe herome mate her'entrance n 179
" n board . ,h J. Ge ? rg f te ’ H
Company s ship chartered to carry con-
victs. Like all convict-heroines, she has
been convicted of a trifling offence. James
and Julia Ryder, passengers on board
with! their duktoo are gornf, as
settlers to New South Wales and,
them governess having died, Sara js
“ slgned to '‘‘Lf IS.™ in
Maclay one of the ?bi p s officers, ills m
love with Sara during the journey, and
proposes to her. 1 rom > ,
she eventua ly marries him.and shares
h( s prosperity, rs n
Sara
ability. Her attraction leads several men
SSo.'SSldlSt S
at his farm, she ™arn«i Louis
A tier h,s death she
to England with her children and Louts s
daughter.
But her sons are bred with talk o
the western land newly discoveied aftei
the Blue Mountains were crossed, and
finally Sara returns to the colony witi
them, having at last wme to grips wil
her feeling for Richard which has always
in the past haunted her hie. [here is o
course, far more of color and adventure
than this bare outline to be found in this
quite lengthy novel. The background is
skilfully drawn, and the historical mtor-
mation necessary is given without over-
loadinc the story
loaning me siuiy.
The writing is neither memorable noi
bad. The occasional cliche is no more
disadvantageous in this sort of adventure-
saga than it was in Gone With the Wind.
In fact, though Sara Dane is a very much
shorter book, its pace and its richness in
minor characters suggest that Miss
Gaskin may some day achieve a really-
readable saga-story of Australia.
Van Wyck Brooks
Having written a y»eat literary history
of the United States in five volumes, Van
Wyck Brooks presents a first volume of
autobiography, Scenes and Portraits;
Memories of Childhood and Youth,
suavely printed in America, with Dent’s
mark on it for British buyers.
And only a suave production could do
justice to this firm but delicate prose,
representative of American traditions that
go far, far back beyond the 20th-century
cult of the tough guy. Born in 1886 to
a family of “inveterate New Yorkers,’
Van Wyck Brooks was as a child morti-
fied to have to spend his days in Plain-
field, New Jersey ; though the town was
rich in the mansions of the business-
buccaneers of those days:
How many... .ups and downs, not to say
scandals, we heard of, muffled as they were
in the reports that reached our ears
for one, the descent, like an empire falling,
of a certain conspicuous family we knew'
when the head of the house was convicted
as an embezzler and absconder. Then there
was the neighbor with the cherry orchard,
a lover of children —and we all loved him
who vanished, as we gathered, into prison;
and another family that blossomed out
with governess-carts, tandems, grooms,
liveried footmen and a tally-ho that also
vanished —whither? Vast red sandstone
houses rose, like so many Kenilworth
castles, with turrets, verandas, balconies
and porte-cocheres, with arches, fountains,
coach-houses, kennels and stables and with
sons who had an air of owning all creation
and whose thoughts and talk were entirely
about yachting and coaching. Pathetic
these boys were destined to be, how often,
when they grew up, for almost invariably
their worlds collapsed about them.
From such heavy falls Mr. Brooks’s
father seems to have been preserved by
an inability fb get very high up; the
family was comparatively poor; and yet,
it seems, had little difficulty in “doing
the Continent” (Antwerp, Brussels, Dres-
den, Vienna, Rome, Florence, Naples,
Paris, London) when the author was 14,
or sending him to Harvard.
After two chapters on his childhood,
we reach one devoted to Miss Kenyon s
Seminary; and in this study of the corre-
spondence between that lady and an
elderly admirer, Mr. Brooks further sets
the spirit of the times. His picture of
Harvard, 1904-1907, shows us what it was
like when T. S. Eliot was there, and has
a few hard words to say about Professor
Irving Babbitt and his “humanism” ; and
then by the middle of 1907 he is in
London, storing up those memories of
youth which always come in so handy in
such books as this. Belloc’s secretary
typed his first book:
He {Belloc] would send Miss B. a wire
telling her to go to his country-house for
the period of a recess in Parliament, and
there, in a fortnight of mornings, prowling
in his study, he would dictate the whole of
a long novel. It was all impromptu, for
he was active politically and had little
time to think of writing, although some-
times, reviewing for the “Morning Post,
he would leave a taxi ticking below while
he bounded up the stairs with an armful of
books. He would take the first book oft
the pile, run his eye through it and begin
to talk, dictating ten reviews in fifty
minutes, which seemed to me astonishing
because Belloc was almost a great writer at
times and could never have been called a
common hack.
Back in New York among the maga-
zines and publishing-houses, he saw a
great deal of the aged artist J. B. Yeats,
the poet’s father, who was living his last
few years out in poverty in New York—
his fine pastel sketch of Mr. Brooks is
the frontispiece of the book. For those
who are not Americans, probably the most
interesting story in this book is of the
visit Sloan-the-artist’s wife made to W. B.
Yeats when he was in New York with the
Irish Players:
he stayed at a great hotel —at Lady
Gregory’s expense —and feeling that per-
haps he did not know how sadly poor his
father was (Mrs. .Sloan] went and appealed
to him to assist his father. It was a blunder,
hut human, as J. B. Yeats would have
seen at once, for all the fierce pride of the
gentleman that he shared with his 50n....
he would not have felt merely the cold con-
tempt with which his son bowed Dolly to
the door, uttering one phrase only, ‘ Good
day, Madam.”
The California chapter sees Van Wyck
Brooks married and teaching at Leland
Stanford in Carmel; and there is a hne
picture of Robinson Jeffers the poet,
Toiling up the cliff trail as I passed, with
a boulder from the beach on his back, like
S , >phus, for, with only the occasional help
a mason, he set up this massive house
himsell with the tower that looked like a
primitive Norman keep....! almost wit-
nessed a murder that reappeared in a poem
of his
Then there was Thorsten Veblen,
author of the theory of the leisured class:
Veblen had had a way of asking his
girl students to spend weekends with him
in a cabin in the woods... .Once, moreover,
on a moonlight night, a buxom damsel
called on me and said, “I was the girl who
caused all the trouble,” thinking perhaps
that since I was at Stanford I might pull
wires to get Veblen back....
Next, Mr. Brooks is back in England,
lecturing on English essayists to South
Norwood milkmen, shoemakers who read
Greek, carpenters who quoted Horace’s
odes and “assumed that one could not
be educated unless one read Greek and
Latin as easily as English.” His oldest
student was a boatmaker of 96 who
“came not so much to listen as to drowse
in a friendly atmosphere” ; he urged Mr.
Brooks to read Dr. Adam Clarke’s Com-
mentary on the Holy Scriptures (which
later appeared as William Jennings
Bryan’s authority at the Dayton trial),
“for Dr. Clarke proves that the serpent
could not have tempted Eve because the
serpent had no vocal organs.”
There are mentions here of Wells,
Frank Harris, Georg Brandes, John
Gould Fletcher (who had published in
one month five books of poems), Ezra
Pound; and a strange old Scottish
essayist-pianist, Francis Grierson, who
spent his boyhood on the Mississippi, and
was adjudged by Mallarme “the first real
poet of the piano” ; rouged, dyed and
wax-moustached, and supervised and
served for 30 years by a worshipping
Polish-American.
With the First World War Mr. Brooks
returned for a season to the Plainfield of
his childhood, and there he temporarily
takes leave of himself, at the point where:
I realised that I had grown up in a
crowded little comer of the country, with
windows opening towards Europe and closed
towards the West —of which, as my writing
showed, I knew next to nothing.
Croquet Redeemed
Anyone who thinks lightly of croquet
should read Croquet Today by Maurice
Reckitt (Macdonald).
He begins with six reasons why we
should embrace the game: first, it’s
about the only sport in which women
can win an open championship against
men (one can think of only one other);
second, it provides “exercise without
undue exertion” ; third, expense to the
player is only that of a mallet, a pair of
rubber-soled shoes and his club-fees ;
fourth, the “bisque” system makes handi-
cap-games more interesting for scratch-
players than in other sports; fifth, the
quiet atmosphere of a croquet-lawn con-
duces to pleasanK f riendships ; sixth, the
chances in croquet are suc h that you
never can be sure \of winning until you
have won, while tne play calls for a
delicacy of touch equal to that of
billiards, and almost a chess-player's
ability to plot.
As to this last consideration, croquet
is apparently startling to the uninitiated
from the start:
You will probably expect that the first
competitor to play will place his ball care-
fully opposite... .the first hoop and tr>
either to run it or to remain in position to
do so at his next opportunity. In tact
he will almost certainly do neither; he will
very probably send his ball off to the east
.... boundary at a point more or less level
with the fourth h00p.... because he wants
to keep out of the way of his opponent
from fear lest he might make use of tne
Blue ball to help him make the first
hoop
The peace and quiet promised the
beginner is in practice shattered b\
feverish indecisions; and then there are
the language-difficulties; —• ,
In the hoop approach put Yellow left
of the hoop, run 1-back and rush Yellow
to the north boundary above the penulti
mate, send Yellow to 3-back so that Blue
can roquet Black into position for peehng.
Black is peeled and a perfect ™sh must b
obtained on Red for 2-back. This i
Indeed, it looks almost as vital as
knitting.
Dragon's Island: Jack Williamson
(Museum Press). The adventures of a
“pain-wracked private detective arm g
an undiscovered race in New Guinea
called the “Not-men”; as good a tease
as any for the book having been not-read.


Anthony Horderns’ has
Cool Summer fashions for homes!
Windows are the background of all furnishing schemes, so give your windows the perfect finish they deserve with our
beautiful “Hordura” blinds —blinds designed to give the maximum amount of shade and protection from
the summer sun to your precious furnishings. We can supply Venetians direct from our factory in either wood or
metal in materials that are the finest available and work carried out by skilled workmen under careful supervision.
1
r *^vrr, Lj^^
•**Wryif( Stiffs,;,
Y^V|Tr v.. | .. rf . T| j
i; ■ 11 ft vr. i i
1$
; ; xs ; x-^
||£||
jftiv,,\
:lui
WffifrfYnW ./rfffiffifrfr;
Vf. • v * ’< ■•■’■'
'.; „
3“
mmmmmmm.
_ZL_J
yyxcwwp?.
m
mm
Hardura Wood Venetians
Our wood Venetian blinds are made from fine
selected timbers. The laths are made from
selected Canadian cedar, and we will gladly
match any colour to suit an individual furnish-
ing scheme in your home, modern or traditional.
ILLUSTRATED.
Hor dura Metal Venetians
Our Hordura metal lath blinds are made from a
specially processed lightweight aluminium lath
which has a baked enamel finish that will not
break or chip and is easily cleaned. These
blinds have a wood head rail and neatly
moulded fascia which covers all working parts.
Ten lovely pastel shades available. Include
Cream, Pink, Blue, Green, Primrose and Ivory.
Have your CanVas and Holland made to
We will make up canvas and Holland to order for you in any size you wish,
and in any style you may require to blend with your home and furnishings.
ORDER
iillilU
Holland Blinds
Genuine best quality Scotch Holland
Blinds are made to any size and
various styles such as Plain, Kilted
or Fringed. Colours availible are
Beige, Brown, Reseda, Buff, Jade
Green, Cream, Red and White.
Canvas Blinds
We make up all types of canvas
blinds in Plain, Drop or Florentine
, Style. There is a large range of
designs from which to choose. We
can do plain stripes or gay multi
stripes in either woven canvas or
the famous “Brella” proofed canvas.
mzmm
. at
<o'-
k ' v *
. wV°
»
Send for our free booklet
Send for our helpful pamphlet showing you
how to measure for blinds and illustrating
various styles in all types of blinds, Vene-
tians, Holland and Canvas. Quotations free.
_
wxmt'W
Jy?\- ' i
mmm
mMM^i
'
mtMmM
W'WM
m
m .
» «r a
g%4#S<S'v,.-. ■ i .:y-:.A- -.*■,,. . ■
55
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ’
nttonj Horderns
>,. >g gri
VENETIANS, CANVAS AND HOLLAND BUNDS, THIRD FLOOR. ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712 G.P.O. SYDNEY. M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 27, 1954
VoL 75—No. 2898
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE PRESS AND THE TIMES
Freedom of the press is 130 years old in Australia this
month. It was established by William Charles Went-
worth and Dr. Wardell, LL.D., formerly the editor of
“The Statesman” in London, who printed their first
issue of “The Australian” on October 14, 1824. Sir
Thomas Brisbane, somewhat astonished, reported that
“these gentlemen never solicited my permission to
publish their paper, and, as the opinion of law officers
of the Crown coincided with my own that there existed
no power to interpose or prevent it without going to
council, I considered it most expedient to try the
experiment of the full latitude of the freedom of the
p ress »»
The development of the fight for responsible self-
iunvmmei followed, and it can be safely said that the
> < h of onstitutional liberty in Australia arose from
ihc pristine press and its conductors, and that in this
Vva. thf c: tinent was unique
» Anctraiicn” r.*™* „ • 10 ~.
omne “Age” was born in October“l
eek latfr In thl month
A durim? ifs cHvs of haH jtp WsrU
worth’ “Thf Mon,W-tc f? i
and “tS K Ti'Sn!
L : The A trp t a
: f ' AnHT •? survival, had
H u ,j; ; ‘ io £ lf Hf dlspnguls f hed
Vh fW t 0 farewed a clepurting
uo, - r ■■ v th free rum and oxen roasted whole in the
Wentuoi manner, the influence of his journal from
n; very be innings still illustrated to the full, in a
manner un, rrallelled even in the case of the London
V nower of a newsmivr in thf> hnnric rtf
n P o£ principle who are fearless in the will
•io c vires eir views
• > , ,'l._ A ... r ~
c t Zoufh n . P e fi r? BeS p of i th ? IBger ?
Fed’ration “Th/ Aw” S !£ /°1 P [° te * tlo f f nd
dev ~ .nmen without /iper in it* Austraian
without peer n its time, this apart from
* - ■ tu - decanted its young men into spheres
: journalism-men who held high judicial
ic political office, positions in industry,
douuvnt positions, especially in finance (to which
1 V v recruits as Sir William Robinson, of the
id some of the makers of the Stock
exchange firm of J. B. Were and Son, which has
traditionally drawn partners in the past from “The
Age’s” staff). And it has always maintained a strong
policy of service to the land and agriculture
T , . ~ „ ~ , *
staff-rolls are studded with memorable names
Windsor, Schuler, Ben Hoare, Cockerill and a
dozen more who thundered in the days when leading-
articles were written with a crowbar and had the impact
of a steam-hammer upon public opinion. Its content
t h /l a !£^n/^f SOlid v,is articles of quality and good
’ - ! y r moribund periods such as all
S if£ vt n , Y be °T! f° men :
l y / h b f n / era ’. evea lf 11 ka s n ° t
Australian £ iHa tCnt ’ and lt -*? as .f j ll uniforml y
tl° a P a P ei without fads common-
e s , written for the home, and conscious, as few other
ally journals in the Commonwealth are today, ot
t e em uung nature ol the basic solidity of the human
moral nbre.
It must seem a sad fact to most of its contem-
poraries that it was able to survive as a family journal
carrying on a tradition of sobriety and good sense,
denying itself the luxury of presenting its readers with
pictures of nearly naked ladies in Bikinis, the more
pernicious forms of gambling information, Yankee
comics in their cruder forms, and the cruder details of
sex crime. It does not offer serials depicting the engag-
mg life-stones of condemned felons, who, by the favor
ol modern journalism and its methods, are assured of
world-syndication if their crimes are foul enough to
glamorise.
The press of Sydney has become in the past few
years a horrible example of what papers without a
sense of responsibility, except to their pockets, can do
to the moral fibre of a community, just as the early
history of papers of the type of “The Age,” “The
Argus,” “The West Australian,” the old “Sydney
Morning Herald” and “Daily Telegraph” and “Bris-
bane Courier” proved what could be done for a people
and for its pride and political strength and Constitu-
tional development.
There appears to be, in the minds of many of the
“greater” daily-paper proprietors of Australia, a
delusion that the average citizen has no interest beyond
“the books, the dogs and bare flesh.” But journals like
“The Age” for a century have been proving this con-
ception wrong, and that there is room in every city
for papers which will report faithfully the events of
the day to the limit of the capacity of their pages,
reflect the real life of the people, their movements, the
proceedings of the learned and popular societies that
rarely are mentioned in Sydney save when they become
caught up in scandal.
Those sober papers are every day becoming fewer.
In fact, in most capitals they already scarcely exist.
And in one or two the general motto of the press seems
fast coming to be “All the news unfit to print.”
This conception of what the press owes to the
public is producing a trend—illustrated by contro-
versial bills in State Parliaments to censor what some
bureaucrat believes to be obscenity—which is gradually
eroding and destroying respect for journalism and its
rights of freedom.
The solid family interest in “The Age,” even
though now incorporated in a public company, can con-
gratulate itself that it celebrates its centenary free
from the modem taint, and with reason for pride in a
long tradition of unabated service to the sounder
virtues in public and private life.
Soldier-settlers
Murray Robson said in the N.S.W. Legislative
the other day that a State Liberal Govern-
™ent ™ ould ™ eet the difference between land resumed
for soldier-settlement in the future and its capital-value
as a!3se * sed for settlers Purchase-cost would be
wntten - down to fair and reasonable levels for rental
as^ ent m order togwe settlers every chance of
makl og a success of their blocks,
At sta B e th ® proposition is largely hypothetical,
The N.S.W. Liberals and Country party still have to
their election. But it is good to see a Liberal policy
on soldier-settlement presented now, so soon after the
s internal upsets, and presented with a certain
air of brisk confidence.
, Soldier-settlement in N.S.W. has been less a
rehabilitation measure than a closer-settlement scheme;
™ akeS the . claims , of dispossessed landowners
f °[ JUSt compensation rather stronger than they might
otherwise appear to be. Their claims are, in any case,
strong. It is manifestly unfair to set up one section
° f the communit y at the expense of another, smaller
Part, and th c minority the ruling value of their
* and - If the thing is worth doing the whole community
should share the financial burden. Robson reaffirmed
his party ’ S policy ° f paying ust compensation for land
resumed. The more often this policy is stated the
better . As a matter of pr i nci pi e t he N.S.W. “Labor”
Government’s action in paying landowners less than
a fair price should be attacked consistently.
r J
~ 11 w “. ,,ever **"£4 “s™** °" grounds .otter
‘ h ?, n «*l>«tei*cy: the chief argument being that if the
fuK .S™ 6 we f e **“.l tte "mount of money involved
wou m be so huge that the system would break down
f nd “‘ he ° igger w °uldn't get his land " Well, as it has
turned out, a good many Diggers haven t got their
land (which isn’t theirs, anyway, but Crown property
held under lease): in N.S.W 19,000 qualification-
certificates have been issued, and, up to June 30 last,
only 2280 farms had been provided by the Government
for ex-servicemen.
. .. . ~ . , , T c-m ( < T l „
The inequity at the root of the N.S.W. “Labor”
appr ? ach t 0 resumption and valuation has not been
as obvious as it might otherwise have been because
only a sma ll number of individuals were affected by
And ’ m practice, the policy has been modified over
years by negotiation. But the mequity-the
threaUn the background—remains, and if the principle
Jf r . e tamel y accepted its extension to other fields of
business and industry could quickly create intolerable
conditions. A gigantic triumph of bureaucracy under
which the only opinions of consequence were those of
civil servants and elected persons. The Welfare State
needs no encouragement in that direction whether the
party in power be “Labor” or Liberal. It is a tendency
of the age and a bad one
This basic inequity bas been masked> too> by the
emotional connotations of the term “soldier-settle-
ment” 0n the one hand is an owner-a big company,
perhaps—with plenty of land: on the other a man
who has fought for his country and who, it has been
certified in writing, is likely to make a good farmer,
jf any i n j us tice is to be done, isn’t it better to let the
man or men wbo can a ff ord suffer rather than
deprive the soldier of his opportunity? An opportunity
which will mean, incidentally, greater production—
and therefore more national wealth—by a multiplication
of soldiers: and taking into consideration the fact
that the original owner only suffers comparatively—
he gets some money for his land—don’t these things
justify occasional brusque handling of individual
owners? One can’t make an omelet without breaking
eggs.
The answer is No. Some of these factors deserve
consideration, but no combination of them justifies
action which in itself is unjust. As a matter of interest,
a man may receive very considerable benefits as a
soldier-settler and be an ex-soldier only in a technical
sense. Six months’ service in the armed forces during a
specified period is enough to qualify a man or a
woman for a range of benefits under the Repatriation
Act. The War Service Land Settlement Act and the
Re-establishment Employment Act were, in effect,
amplifications of the old Repatriation Act.
To be eligible for a ballot a potential
soldier-settler must first satisfy a Land Board and the
Lands Department that he has had the practical
experience sufficient to make his success as a farmer
likely and that he has had experience in the type of
farming for which the blocks in a particular ballot
are intended. He must also satisfy the competent
authorities that he is physically capable of doing the
necessary work-that war wounds, tor instance, or age
won t come against him.” 6
But, in N.S.W., so far as war-service is concerned,
a man who has served the bare six months has an
equal chance with the veteran of major campaigns.
More chance, indeed, if the six-monther is young and
fit and if the veteran has been badly knocked-about,
A consideration of these facts somewhat modifies the
emotional side of the picture. In fact, men who went
pt° the Army compulsorily, and whose service was
brief and safe, have received soldier-settlement blocks.
And men with a deal of active service are still hang-
ing around waiting on ballots, or are trying to talk
someone into selling them a farm under the promotion
system, their qualification-certificates gathering dust.
Or they have drifted into jobs in towns and cities. It
is now 1954, and each year reduces the chances of many
of being physically capable of running a farm.
But, of course, many soldier-settlers were deserving
cases, from the service point of view. Considering the
scheme as a closer-settlement one, there can be no
objection to the others, many of whom were kept on
the mainland through no fault of their own and who
anyway, come up to the required standard. On the
whole the scheme, so far as it has been implemented
has worked very well. In B. 15/9/’54 a soldier-
settler from the New England told a story of early
trials and successes, from a practical and personal view-
point. There is something in this article to catch the'
imagination of the reader, as there is in soldier-settle-
ments in other districts, for anyone who has seen them.
From the national point of view the experiment is
bearing fruit; it is a pity it is not larger.
The other aspect —the rather noble ideal of giving
a man who has served his country in battle a piece
of that land —if somewhat overemphasised and some-
times inconsistent with the facts is not necessarily
invalid.
Confidence and Caution
For nearly 12 months the word “oil” has had an almost
magic potency over certain classes of Australian
investors, its mere mention sufficient to move them
almost to hysteria. Its inclusion in the title of a new
company was the signal for a wild rush of would-be
shareholders eager to get in on the ground-floor with-
out doubting for a moment the presence of oleaginous
treasure in the basement; in more than one case the
rush has begun merely on a whisper, before a
prospectus has been prepared or registration applied
for. A Sydney broker recently wisecracked that if a
promoter were to announce that he had located oil
on Mars or Jupiter and was floating a company. Space
Oil, N.L., to develop it he would have to arm his staff
with ray-guns to keep the crowd back.
At Exmouth Gulf (W.A.), site of the hole in the
ground which, through no fault of its own or of its
drillers, was the immediate cause of all this excitement,
there are no signs of hysteria. A Bulletin man, taking
a second look at the Learmonth area 13 months after
the commencement of operations at Rough Range
No. I—the1 —the hole which brought in 550 barrels of “very
waxy, high-grade crude oil” in the course of a 25-
hour test —found the atmosphere one of quiet con-
fidence and calm efficiency. He saw no sign of the
rush and tear associated in the popular mind, through
Hollywood, with infant oilfields; the picture he brought
away was of a smoothly running industrial organisation
in which every man knew his job thoroughly, liked it,
and did it to the best of his ability. And that best has
to be pretty good if he is to keep his place in the
team, for oil-drilling is, above all things, a matter of
teamwork.
That the Australians on the field have quickly
adapted themselves to the diversity of tasks they fill
on the drill-sites, at the depot and barge-head and on
the transport that connects the three is attested not only
by the enthusiastic warmth with which the experienced
Americans speak of them, but also by the fact that the
turnover of personnel is very low. At Learmonth
there are now about 16 Australians to every American;
at Grant Range, 80 miles from Derby, where the
National 100 drill bought from the Commonwealth
Government is expected to spud-in within the next
few days, the proportion is not quite so high, but is
rising.
Although the Aussies have quickly accustomed
themselves to the work, they still feel that there is
something of a novelty in drilling for oil in Australia-
just as do most of the speculators. The Yanks on the
spot do not share this feeling. Between them they
have brought-in oilfields in many American States, in
Canada, South America, Arabia, Sumatra, Bahrein and
other parts of the world. They know only two kinds
of country —oil country and other country. In their
view this is oil country. That it happens to be in
Australia is only incidental; they see nothing to wonder
at in that. It could just have easily been Timbuctu
or Heard Island. Their collective experience told them
there was oil down below, and last December they
were proved right. Collective modesty reinforces their
belief that there must be more, otherwise it means that
they struck- the only bowser in the area first pop. And
“we don’t think we’re quite so good as all that.”
The current job is to establish that there is more,
to find out how much more and whether it it worth-
while going into full-scale production. Tentative plans
seem to be built on the expectation that it will be.
But a word of caution—the sum so far spent or com-
mitted in Westralia is vast by local standards, but
to get it in proper perspective the venture must be
considered as part of the world-wide oil-search that is
going on all the time —in some places successfully, in
others not. Failure to find a profitable field in the
West would be accepted by the oil industry at large
as one of the setbacks of the game—disappointing, but
not vital. Australian investors should ask themselves
whether as individuals they can afford to take the same
philosophical view.


LAST-MINUTE LOOK FOR THE “POLICE-STATE”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Doctors' Dilemma
The party doctors of the A.L.P. are
desperately trying to save the political
life of Dr. Evatt, not because they love
him, but because they know the awful
position that will arise if he goes out —
with the support of the great Red unions,
which would stand to him to a man.
An emergency Federal Executive meet-
ing will be held at the Hotel Kingston
in Canberra today; but it is too late to
achieve much. It is odds-on that Dr.
Evatt would not be in the leadership at
the moment if the party could agree on
a successor, and that many of those who
have been sitting quiet or ostensibly sup-
porting him are only engaged in
manoeuvre.
In the brawl that passed for a meeting
of the caucus, last Wednesday, one such
bloc —Senator John Armstrong and
M.P.s F. M. Daly (whip), A. S.
Luchetti, Gordon Anderson, and F. E.
Stewart, all of N.S.W. —changed their
apparent position, though Mr. Daly
had been privately outspoken all along.
The Ward faction is giving support with
its tongue in its cheek only because it
never fails to support anything palatable
to Soviet Union. Its denial that it was
promising to get rid of Dr, Evatt when
the present crisis was over and he had
been used to the full to discredit the
Petrov Commission was reported to have
been received with laughter by Mr.
Ward’s opponents.
There is no coherent account of the
caucus-meeting extant. It appears to
have been a feast of hysterics during
which even such a stately figure as
Mr Allan Fraser was reported by the
Herald” to have “leaped forward
nd with fists clenched” as the Left-
i loc supporting Dr. Evatt took names
>se opposed to him when the count
was being thade. All that is known
s.f cc. caJly is that the meeting was a
D xu y brook'and that a motion to declare
the leadership vacant was defeated by 54
; to 28, the deputy-leaders in both
hoi e ;, Senator John Armstrong and Mr,
Colwell, voting against their leader.
The most significant thing about the
it Mtion, however, lies in the fact that
Dr Fvau will not be the only one to
make charges before the very-much-
ral Executive. T. P. Burke,
whom Mr. Chifley was grooming for the
he-■■hip, will accuse the doctor of going
to the Petrov Commission against the
will or s, which had agreed to sup-
collaborating with the Com-
with flouting Labor policy in
flection campaign. In the
; none of the contestants yet
aware of the extent of the
ical ammunition which is
1 to the Liberals, who now
no k ave to rely on their own
the main charges they have
ed against the Leader of the
Opposition.
Tfi portion changes almost every
hour, and the issue of a statement by Dr.
Evatt after the caucus-meeting advocat-
ing the sending of a Parliamentary dele-
gation to South-East Asia, including Red
China, and support for the recognition of
Peking after admission to U.N.0., will do
the doctor no good, seeing that the party
was not consulted. Neither will the fact
that a Communist lady with a code-name
in Moscow turned up at the Petrov Com-
mission on subpoena to swear that she
had been engaged in 1944 for Dr. Evatt’s
staff by Mr. Dalziel, his private-secretary,
who knew her to be the foundation
secretary of the Communist-formed
Eureka Youth League only a few
months before, secretary of a culture
“front” at the time of the appointment.
She swore she used her opportunities to
copy anything worth while that came
her way in Dr. Evatt’s office and transmit
it to Comrade Clayton, head of the Com-
munist Party Information Service and
Control Commission, with whom she
worked in close liaison.
Comrade Clayton is at present in smoke
and Security is searching for him.
Brief Respite
“In the ACT”: The exultant Liberal last
Wednesday in King’s Hall, Parliament
House, who hailed the caucus vote for
Evatt as “another victory for the
Liberals,” must have realised, like
caucus itself, that Evatt is becoming too
great a liability for “Labor” to carry
much longer.
The Ward-sponsored move in caucus
to record the names of those voting for
a “spill” of positions was one of the
greatest tactical blunders of the recent
succession of events, making it more
difficult than ever for the special A.L.P.
Federal Executive meeting this week
to heal the widening breach. The charges
and counter-charges for that executive
became apparent last week, and it was
expected that the royal commission’s
interim report would also add more than
a little fuel to the flames being fanned
within the party by critics of its leader.
Dr. Evatt is still obstinately repeating
his extraordinary charges of conspiracy
which the commission has rejected, and
this fact, more than his attacks on Vic-
torian members and the Victorian execu-
tive, has convinced his opponents that the
public will swing so strongly against
“Labor” that all State “Labor” Adminis-
trations are in peril, as well as the existing
Federal “Labor” party. Evatt is seen as
a wrecker with an obsession which may
drag down the whole “movement,” and
the caucus vote is interpreted merely as a
desperate bid at this stage to preserve
some semblance of unity. The slide has
started, and it will have gathered momen-
tum in many quarters before January.
London Dock Paralysis
From London; In a single week Britain
has had the worst epidemic of industrial
trouble since before the war—a one-day
lockout in the newspaper industry;
8000 ship-repairers on strike following
the dismissal of five members of the
Communist-dominated Electrical Trades
Union; dissatisfaction over a wage-
settlement on the railways; paralysis of
the Port of London as a result of the
dock strike; and half of London’s buses
off the streets.
It would be misleading to imply that
these five outbreaks were symptomatic of
general unrest or, except for the con-
tagious nature of real or imagined
grievances, that they were interrelated.
By far the most serious, and damaging,
is the dock strike and its concomitants.
It is also inexcusable. The dockers are
well paid (many of them better off than
professional men) and have received
every consideration. They are, as a
body, the least responsible of all workers
and, as in this instance, easy dupes of
Communist saboteurs. Like its precursors,
the strike has been devised, fomented and
extended by a central organisation out to
disrupt the export trade and to bring dis-
credit to the nation.
The fact that the dispute is over the
merits of so-called “reasonable” over-
time (necessary because the tidal habits of
the London river refuse to adjust them-
selves to football-matches and television
programmes) is neither here nor there.
Nor is the face-saving, no-quarter conflict
between the mighty, flat-footed Trans-
port and General Workers’ Union and
the arrogant National Association of
Stevedores and Dockers, which is
poaching the former’s members. In
their petulant “solidarity” the dockers
ignore two simple factors, both of which
are immeasurably damaging to them-
selyes: the driving-force behind the
NASD is identical with that behind the
general disruption ; and their continued
stubbornness will not only hold up
shipping, with all its heavy consequences,
but must also lead to wide unemploy-
ment.
Once again the dockers have allowed
themselves to be taken for a ride.
Security and the Journalist
A case heard in the Sydney courts during
the week concerned an attempt by a
reporter of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
to “test security” at the Captain Cook
Dockyard, Sydney, a centre where con-
siderable secret work is always in
progress.
The stipendiary who tried the case said
that, though the reporter was not there for
any lawful purpose, he “thought a lot of
people would say he was there for a
laudable purpose,” and that “there was
no grave injury done, rather the reverse.”
The journalist was fined a minimum sum.
Exactly how a reporter can “test the
security” of a place like the Captain
Cook organisation and Garden Island by
climbing through a fence and wandering
about it is very difficult to say. It cer-
tainly shows that both he and the news-
paper which sent him are novices in
Security technique. And it also seems
to show that, though Security very wisely
captured the young man and prosecuted
him, it obviously recognised him as not
being dangerous. If it had it would not
have prosecuted him, at that stage at any
rate; but would have watched him care-
fully and followed him, steered him out
of mischief, and hoped that he would
keep coming as often as he liked until
they had found out all about him and
who he was working for, and perhaps
bagged the lot if they were dangerous.
The truth is that it is becoming almost
impossible to run a Security service in
Australia because the press (which is
sensation-silly and sex-mad) will only
allow it to be run under its personal
supervision with plenty of news-
handouts. And the “Labor” party will
support it only so long as it does not
uncover any associations which might
damage Dr. Evatt or those associated with
him, when it at once becomes a “foul
conspiracy” and all the documentary
proofs it unearths “forgeries.”
Vicious Circle
Not even Mr. Landa could stop the rise
in the price of tea in New South Wales.
And Australians must gird their loins and
realise that this is only the beginning,
and is largely a result of the policy of
the very people who are loudest in
complaint.
The “Labor” party has been most
zealous about the need for teaching
Asiatics the beauties of the forty-hour
week, go-slow, the throwing-out of the
imperialists and other tenets which have
made “Labor” powerful and living dear
in Australia.
Dr. Evatt fell out seriously with
General Mac Arthur during the Japanese
occupation because the General
absolutely refused to allow Japanese
trade-unions under Communist leader-
ship to paralyse Tokyo by exercising
their right to hold some general strikes.
Some of the Asiatic workers are follow-
ing Australian “Labor” precepts with a
will, apart from the fact that world prices
are generally rising. So tea goes up
Is. 7d. a pound.
Of course, the “Labor” cure for this
is a subsidy on tea out of Commonwealth
revenue —that is, out of the pockets of
the taxpayers. The Commonwealth
already, in any case, has increased
its tea subsidy from £1,000,000 to
£5,500,000.
The policy seems to be to do anything
but face facts squarely. And the fact of
the rise in the price of tea is only part
of one great fact—that the worker
cannot have it both ways. He cannot
put up wages, shorten the working-week
and -day, promote slower rate of working
and produce so much less work per £ of
pay whether here or in Ceylon or Indo-
China without having a commensurate
rise in prices in the articles which he
produces.
Nobody can stop this happening—
not even Mr. Landa or Mr. Cahill.
Cahill and the Press
After months of more-or-less weighty
thought the Cahill Government has seem-
ingly reached finality on the form its
legislation to curb obscene publications
will take, though the bill will not be
brought down for some weeks yet. The
news came in the shape of one of those
Cabinet leaks that cannot be dissociated
from the current boilover in “Labor’s”
back kitchen.
The pattern to be followed is the Vic-
torian system of registration of distribu-
tors, rather than the Queensland (and
Dublin) one of proscription by a com-
mittee. The amendments will provide for:
1. Registration of all publishers and dis-
tributors of printed matter, with the ex-
ception of newspapers and certain other
exempted publications. A newspaper is de-
fined as a paper which prints news, is pub-
lished not less than twice in 26 days, and
is priced at 6d. or less.
2. Suspension or cancellation of registra-
tion for an offence under the Act.
3. Wider definition of the terra “obscene
publication” to Include any blasphemous
statement or matter which unduly empha-
sises sex, crimes of violence, gross cruelty
or horror. ,
The board system was not rejected with-
out a struggle. Chief Secretary Kelly,
according to the Sydney “Herald,” favored
“an advisory panel of experts,” but was
overruled by his colleagues.
Under the new legislation courts of
petty sessions will have power to cancel
or suspend a licence, subject to a right
of appeal to a superior court. It is not
yet clear how wide this power will be,
but if suspension of licence means suspen-
sion of the right to sell any publication
and not merely the one deemed offensive,
the power seems excessive, and may lead
to a form of prepublication censorship by
distributors, going far beyond what is
intended in the bill.
There is a taint of suspicion about any
form of registration introduced by the
Cahills. Registration and licences are
two of the great standbys of the Socialist
State, and they are steadily encroaching
on the common liberties of the people
of New South Wales.
El Alamein
El Alamein, fought 12 years ago last
weekend, was the greatest battle in which
Australian troops were involved in
World War 11. It was a vitally important
battle for the free Allies also, because it
gave Montgomery his first chance to
show his quality, and decisively proved,
both to the enemy and the jeering
Russians, that the “effete British” peoples
were following their normal practice of
losing every battle but the last.
It was a race for time as to who would
attack first, and both were manoeuvring
for a clear night and a good moon.
Rommel struck first on August 31, after
trumpeting that he would be in
Alexandria in three days, broke into
British positions for 15 miles and came
up against a wall of armor on Alma
Haifa Ridge—first blood to Monty, who
had been in command only since
August 13.
He “returned the Germans’ visit” under
the full midnight moon of October 23,
1942, on a plan which called for the
methodical destruction of Rommel’s
infantry, followed by the wiping-out of
his armor. Montgomery had. seven
infantry divisions and six armored bri-
gades (equivalent of three divisions); the
Germans had two German and two
Italian armored divisions and two Ger-
man and six Italian infantry divisions.
The plan was to force two corridors in
the north, using four divisions, among
which the Australian Ninth, linked with
the Scottish 51st, had pride of place in
what was up to that time perhaps the
most complex operation of the war. It
was carried out at the end of long com-
munication-lines far from - the sources
of material, and it began with the thunder
of 800 guns on a limited front, turned
into a contest of elephantine switch and
manoeuvre, as blows failed or succeeded,
and nine days after it began saw Rommel
throwing his Italian allies to the wolves,
and with them his right wing and centre,
as he lit out with his Afrika Korps in a
disastrous retreat which would have
become catastrophic if rain had not
hampered the chase. As it was, Rommel
lost nearly all his tanks, and within less
than three weeks from the opening gun-
fire nearly 60,000 men, against a total
British casualties of about 13,500.
It was a momentous feat, with moral
results far exceeding the physical, for
it was achieved at a time when foreign—
and some Australian Government —on-
lookers were inclined to think the British
military day done and Russia the only
hope, and when Hitler and his supporters,
imbibing some of the atmosphere of
derision, looked on Cairo as theirs and
the way to the Russian rear and the
Indian Ocean open. The cry to with-
draw our troops and “open a second
front” was at its loudest when Alamein
was fought, and it strengthened the de-
termination to attack in the West, and
led up to the means of bringing the
Americans into a preliminary canter in
North Africa before facing the ordeal
of an advance into Europe.
To Australia it was vitally important,
for it conditioned the battle-leaders of the
forces of the Huon campaign in New
Guinea the following year and provided
a hard core for the officers who made the
Lae and Finschhafen landings. It was,
in fact, the pipe-opener not only for the
driving of Rommel across Africa but
for the main drive which tipped the
Japanese out of the Bismarcks.
Field-Marshal Montgomery said at the
celebration last Saturday: “Victory goes
to the highest bidder in courage, skill,
self-sacrifice —and in all such virtues as
Providence respects and honors.” Aus-
tralia bid high in the battle it cost her
nearly 2000 lives and won her a glorious
share in the victory.
Capital Outlook
“Stromlo” : Most Ministers for the
Interior do some dreaming-aloud about
Canberra, and Kent Hughes is no excep-
tion. His difference is that he translates
some of his dreams into action with a
good deal of vigor and with fine disre-
gard, when necessary, of public-service
objections. He is now looking forward
to the day when Canberra doubles its
present population of 30,000 by the trans-
fer of thousands of civil servants and
their families from Melbourne, and he’s
talking about a town hall and the
organisation to provide the extra houses,
shops, hospital-accommodation, schools,
churches, playing-areas and services
which will be needed. In the meantime
new bridges are being planned over that
sleepy creek, the Molonglo, which occa-
sionally becomes savage, and there is
((Continued on next page)


further talk of the famous “lakes
scheme,” which was part of the original
plan of beautification, and which has
suffered curtailment at the hands of the
planners in recent years.
Canberra residents are taking all this,
with some smugness, as their right, but
they are a little uneasy about the proposal
to instal water-meters. Canberra domestic
gardeners are probably the most extrava-
gant users of water in Australia, although
the nature of the soil is some excuse for
them. The growing use of water has
compelled consideration of alternative
projects for new reservoirs, one on the
Queanbeyan River, in N.S.W., which
would not come from a settlement-free
area, and one on the upper Cotter in the
A.C.T., which would be entirely unpol-
luted, but would cost a million or so
more. Apart from this, the Canberra
works programme for this year (Kent
Hughes is also Works Minister) provides
almost £2i million for architectural jobs
and £1,352,000 for engineering works.
It’s also believed that there will be an
increase of 40 per cent, this year in con-
struction begun by private enterprise in
the capital, which began an estimated
£1,300,000-worth of works last year.
Interior secretary Bill McLaren is going
on record as predicting that Canberra may
become the commercial centre for the
whole of the southern districts of N.S.W.
He says that many firms are interested
in establishing themselves in the terri-
tory, mainly because of the city’s rapid,
if forced, growth.
These developments in themselves sug-
gest that Canberra may soon come out
of its isolation, to find itself a more
balanced and wide-awake community.
They should provoke a new look at some
of the ugly temporary buildings scattered
around, and they should encourage some
architectural activity in the designing of
new features in the city. Politically they
suggest that the day is not far off when
the elected member for the A.C.T. in the
House of Reps must be given full voting
rights in the Chamber. This was a plank
in the platform of the unsuccessful
Liberal candidate at the last election, and
it could be made a spearhead of Liberal
work aimed at capturing and holding the
seat.
POLITICAL POINTS
“One per head and one for the pot.”
With tea at 7s. sd. a pound it looks as if
the pot will have to miss out in future.
• •
What is most needed in the “Labor”
party at the moment is a good plumber.
The Doc. has been complaining for weeks
about leaks from the Canberra caucus-
room ; now the party paper “News
Review” reports as a matter of grave
concern “the frequency of leaks by State
Cabinet Ministers to the press.”
• •
Predictions that atomic power would
be used in Australia within ten years came
last week from two different sources.
Professor Baxter, deputy-chairman of the
Atomic Energy Commission, told the
Australian Primary Producers’ Union
that he thought the Federal Government
would build stations in South Australia,
West Australia and the Northern Terri-
tory, where there were no natural power-
resources ; he felt that Australia’s
uranium-deposits would ultimately pro-
duce more power than her coalfields.
In Adelaide R. H. Lea, general-
manager of the S.A. Electricity Trust, told
the Institute of Public Administration
that he was hoping the trust might start
using atomic power before 1963.
• •
Victorian branch of the A.R.U., like
the Railways Commissioner, refuses to
say “Yes” to Mr. Brown. Latest move
in the campaign to get Comrade Brown
back into the railways, which he did so
much to hamstring during his long reign
as secretary of the union, was a request
by Trades Hall secretary Stout for A.R.U.
support for Brown’s application for a job.
The State council of the union knocked it
back by 39 votes to 11.
• •
On the Sunday night before Federal
caucus voted on the leadership issue
Allan Fraser told his radio audience that
he “had not joined any particular faction”
and that reports that he would stand for
the deputy-leadership were guesswork.
“Good or bad guesswork.” Let’s settle
for good.
• •
In Hobart a road-transport conference
urged that the Eyre Highway between
S.A. and W.A. should be made an all-
weather highway, with some references to
defence. The Prime Minister last week
told the Reps that to cover the 734-mile
section between Penong and Norseman
with bitumen would cost between £3
million and £4 million; he added that
from a defence aspect the current pro-
visions for maintenance (£82,400 in the
last five years) met the strategic require-
ments of the Commonwealth. He said
that improvement of the road for other
purposes was a responsibility of the two
State Governments.
• •
When the Navy began making some
new Australian flags it discovered a mis-
take in the recent Act which, with
colored diagrams, set out the specifica-
tions. The legislation said the seven-
pointed star should be three-eighths of
the width of the flag, instead of the three-
tenths correctly stipulated in the Govern-
ment Gazette. Apparently it’s a clerical
error.
• •
Queensland Treasurer Walsh claims to
be a Communist-hater of long standing,
yet he saw nothing incongruous in quot-
ing in Parliament, under privilege,
extracts from Rupert Lockwood’s
pamphlet “What Is in Document J,”
Walsh read portions reflecting on Percy
Spender and an unnamed U.A.P. poli-
tician of 1941, and claimed that the
Petrov Commission was political. Will
Evatt supporters in other State Parlia-
ments follow Walsh’s lead and thus give
the Communist slander-sheet wider
distribution?
• •
Not many Commoners or commoners
have shared the distinction of the Garter,
bestowed last week on Anthony Eden.
Churchill is one; Austen Chamberlain
was another.
Reported that “Labor” circles in
Sydney fear that the trouble in Victoria
may spill over into N. S. Wales. The
apprehension seems a trifle late in the
day. At least eight N. S. Wales members
were apparently among the caucus rebels
last week, and the two Ma State delegates
of the Federal Executive are so close
together on the subject that the Darling
in flood could flow between them with-
out wetting their boots.
• •
The Doc, says that unless outside
influences are fought to a finish “Labor”
could end up as a party of reaction.
Several of his former henchmen con-
sider that’s just what he has made it
already.
• •
All State-owned raining ventures in
Queensland recorded losses in 1953-54.
Commenting on this item from the
Auditor-General’s report, a spokesman of
the Coal Owners’ Association said that
there was a general attitude of “don’t-
care” among the employees of the mines.
“The attitude was that ‘the State can
pay.’” This is the rock upon which
Socialism founders —the idea that the
Government has a purse that works one
way only and can be dipped into by the
people without the necessity of being
refilled by the people.
• •
John Wren’s Victorian estate was
sworn for probate at £1,003,947; his
THE POT AND THE KETTLE
assets in other States are estimated at
between £300,000 and £400,000. It’s a
long, long road from the days of the
Collingwood shilling tote.
• •
Federal Executive of the A.L.P. was to
have met yesterday. According to
acting-secretary Schmella’s reply to the
“Courier-Mail’s” inquiry it was to be
just the usual half-yearly meeting, but
“the controversial matter raised by Dr.
Evatt may be discussed if brought
forward.” There should be an opening
in the diplomatic service for Schmella.
• •
It’s a strange thing, but those who are
most insistent on the necessity for trust-
ing and getting on friendly terms with
present-day aggressors Russia and China
are violently opposed to trusting and get-
ting on friendly terms with past aggressors
Germany and Japan. \
• •
Some of the “groups,” according to
Evatt, have created an almost intolerable
situation, “calculated to deflect the
‘Labor’ movement from the pursuit of
established ‘Labor’ objectives and ideals.”
Name the objectives and ideals, Doc.l
“Pip Tok”: Jack, M.H.R., who startled
the Reps by making his second speech
in the House since entering it in 1949, is
verbose compared with a former Wes-
tralian politician, the late Charles Maley.
Heavily built, taciturn, a man who hated
making speeches even during election
campaigns, Maley once, in his own elec-
torate, told his small audience, “Well,
you all know me and what I think about
things. Let’s go over to the local and
talk over things there.” For many years
he was the silent member of the
Assembly; broke the silence only once
when, during a cold sitting, he interjected
loudly, “Shut that door!”
• •
“Mugga Way”: What a lot of time is
wasted over drinks and elsewhere, in dis-
cussions about drinking! If it isn’t hard
liquor and referendums it’s the price ot
tea! To a coffee-drinker like myself,
who has been paying through the neck
to the tune of ten-bob a pound, there’s
something unreal about the set-up. Tea-
drinkers are grizzling because the Govern-
ment won’t increase the subsidy—which
I help to pay —that reduces the cost of
their brew, and beer-drinkers are period-
ically annoyed on learning how much
Fadden takes out of the price of every
glass of beer.
• •
The latest rise in the price of tea has
brought forth calls for an adjustment of
the basic wage to meet it. There’s no
logic in this. The cost-of-living figures
for the September quarter showed no
measurable change in Sydney, Hobart,
the six capitals and the 30 towns for which
indices are compiled. There were slight
falls in Melbourne and Brisbane, slight
rises in Adelaide and Perth (mainly due
to increased rents). The last big rise in
the price of tea was included in the
figures.
• •
Survey of Tas. shipping by A. Strahan,
of the Shipping Board, shows there has
been a remarkable increase in the
quantity of cargo handled at the ports.
Eight shipping interests, including the
board, are now operating about 30
vessels in the services between Tasmania
and the mainland, and it is considered
that complaints from both sides of Bass
Strait are due not so much to inadequacy
of ships as to irregularity of sailings—
especially with produce shipments from
north-west ports to Sydney. Some of the
ports have insufficient waterfront labor,
but improvements are expected. The new
motorships ordered by the board are due
soon, and the outlook seems brighter
than for many years.
• •
Attacking the Cain Government’s
salary-grab, A.W.U. president Dougherty
has been indulging in some picturesque,
if not entirely original, language. One
sample, in which he seems to be getting
his bushrangers mixed:
The colossal salary-grab from defence-
less taxpayers by the Cain Labor Govern-
ment of Victoria can dwarf any loot taken
by Ned Kelly and other bushrangers at
the point of the thunderbolt.
And another:
The Victorian Government selected dress-
circle views for its own margins, while
compelling unionists to go to the Arbitra-
tion Court to get what Paddy shot at.
Incidentally, Dougherty is rather pre-
judging the issue in the margins case. The
hearing was concluded on Friday, but no
decision has been given yet.
• •
“In the ACT”: A noticeable but unex-
pected angle of the “Labor” row and the
consequent feebleness of the Opposition
in the Reps has been improved debating
in the Senate. Few radio-listeners bother
with the Senate, and the daily press
almost ignores it. The Senate itself has
been mainly to blame for this; perhaps
it will continue to build on the present
signs of improvement. Senators actually
sat late recently on non-broadcasting
days and applied themselves to the Esti-
mates and to bills with genuine interest.
• •
Nat. Development Minister Spooner
says that by the second half of next year
enough galvanised-iron will be produced
to meet all local needs and establish sub-
stantial exports to N.Z. and elsewhere.
There is still prohibition of steel-exports
of all kinds (except small quantities to
the islands) unless Australian needs are
being met, and this applies also to wire-
netting and fencing-wire.
• •
The Bell Bay (Tas.) aluminium project
has given Supply Minister Beale some
uneasy moments lately, although his
statements in the Reps show that as soon
as he became aware of what he termed
“unsatisfactory administration, particu-
larly in relation to defective costing
and stores-control,” he acted promptly.
He described charges by some “Labor”
members as grossly exaggerated,
announced that the “lost” £1,200,000
was merely an accounting dispute, and
promised that the Parliamentary Public
Accounts committee would be asked to
investigate the project.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
■pELLOW can have skin off his nose,
a broken tooth, a bruise on his brow,
without having mental anguish added to
his sufferings; but let some mischance
bring colored contusions to an optic, and
life becomes a bed of barbed wit. There
are scores of everyday hazards that
could cause a black eye, yet, in the
general view, shiners car be acquired in
mortal combat only. A mate had some
fifty-odd battles in the ring and collected
but one really outstanding stinker. He
got it when the balloon he was blowing
up for a kids’ party exploded in his face.
Nobody believed him, of course. Yet
Marshal Tito turns up at a parade with a
shade partially covering a black peeper—
and even our Australian papers accept his
explanation that a tightly packed posy
tossed by a small girl caused the injury.
Proves yet again—a dictator can get
away with anything.—“Sackfair.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mabsout”: The correct procedure for
a gunman when holding-up a small-
shopkeeper is to march boldly into the
shop and announce clearly: “This is a
stick-up!” If these words are omitted
nobody apparently takes any notice.
Anyway, that’s my impression after
studying reports of recent hold-ups.
Where the orthodox incantation has
been overlooked the results have been
extremely embarrassing for the poor
crook. Some shopkeepers have burst
out laughing, others have told him it was
time he grew up, and one or two have
wen ordered him off the premises under
Threat of force. But if the bewildered
thug has managed to remember the
appropriate spell everything has turned
out satisfactorily. Apparently the Local
Traders’ Association have very strict rules
on the matter. I therefore solemnly
warn all bandits that if any attempt is
made to rob me at pistol-point without
the proper ceremonial I shall merely
turn my back and go on working out
how to dodge the latest official prices-
list for toffee-apples and chocolate-
coated mice.
❖ * ♦♦♦
“Canuck”; As a recent arrival from
Canada, I’m intrigued by the picturesque
use of Aussie slang; exception being the
word “hooray” for “goodbye.” When this
is first tossed at a chechako the tendency
is to join the cheering session and reply
“Hooray for our side, too” ; or to mount
the high horse and snarl “0.K., so I’m
leaving, but you don’t have to be so
doggoned pleased about it.” How did
such a pointless term sneak in, anyhow?
Or does it mean something?
❖ ❖ *
“Boglet”: Navels (B. 6/10/’54)?
Surgeons make every effort to retain the
umbilicus in their onslaughts on this
redundant piece of anatomy. They tell
of a colleague who was sued by his
patient’s husband, who claimed he
couldn’t bear to look at her navel-less
abdomen —“like a face without a nose.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Jonshaw”: Frank Reid is a bit off the beam
in his story of German Harry in his latest book,
The Romance of the Great Barrier Reef (Red
Page, 6/10/’54). I was with Dick Roche, of
Merauke, when we discovered the body of the
old hermit of Deliverance Island in March,
1928. Poor bid Harry did not leave a neatly
written “diary of his daily doings” covering
his 30 lonely years on the island. We carefully
searched hrs little shack for any personal
papers, but found nothing. For years he had
cut himself off from the world and had neither
book nor fragment of newspaper to while away
the endless days. The only record he kept of
the passing years was a school slate fixed above
his bunk on which he had written January,
1928, and the numbers 1 to 31 beneath. All
to 25 had been marked off, and then he died.
Henry Evolt (Harry’s real name) was born in
Denmark in 1849, and for many years roamed
the world as a seaman. Coming to Australia
in the eighties, he joined the Australian ship
Gibraud, loading coals at Newcastle for
Batavia, and was wrecked on the Woppa Reef
while passing through Torres Straits. Somerset
Maugham called at Deliverance in 1924 on his
way to the East Indies and wrote a short story
called “German Harry,” which has been
reprinted many times since. Dick Roche, of
Timaru (N.Z.), went to Dutch New Guinea in
1913 and spent many years of almost fabulous
adventures bird-of-paradise shooting among the
Kia Kia headhunters. He also met a mys-
terious end on the Bian River, Dutch New
Guinea, in 1931
-/ * ❖
“Alma”: We rolled out our sleeping-
bags in a little clump of pine-trees.
Avignon lay behind us, ahead the fairy-
tale turrets of Carcassonne looked over
the Pyrenees. A soft wind brought the
scent of the wild lavender that grows on
the hills of the Provence, and the tinkle
and clink of the bells of the near-by flock
of sheep; in the trees above us a
nightingale tried a few tremulous notes,
then burst into his full song; the moon
“ That much Would have been quite adequate."
was full and golden. The ground beneath
my shoulders sloped to just the right
degree and the dried pine-needles were
soft and sweet-scented; I settled to
absorb this rare magic. A voice from
the next sleeping-bag roused me. “You
know,” it said, “this is just near where
Sir Jack Drummond was murdered.”
❖ *> *l*
“Sebak”; “Tidbinbilla” makes a neat
point on the decimal-point (B, 13/10/’54),
and, at first glance, appears to have won
on points; but I beg to point out that
“The bomb will be exploded at exactly
8 a.m.” gives the time no less accurately
than the quoted; “ exploded at 08hrs.
“Well, it certainly isn't SCARLET -fever."
OOmin. OOsec.”; anyway, the whole point
is that a decimal-point wasn’t used, there-
fore the analogy was pointless. To point
to Tandy’s record as an instance in which
a naught has value on the right-hand side
of a decimal-point is beside the point,
since from England comes a pointer
that everything points to Bannister being
persuaded to strain a point and run at
the next Games; and if he clocks 3min.
58sec. who’s going to argue the point
that the time is not equal to 3min.
58.05ec.? Even the greatest pointer in
Australia couldn’t raise a technical point
on that.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Mullum”: That par. about the
Amateur Hour contestant who stated
that his father was “a cockatoo on Clark
Island” (B. 13/10/’54) reached me a
couple of days before the recording of
the show reached our local radio-station.
When I heard it on the air I did not so
much as chuckle. That made Mrs. “M.”
think I was in a cranky mood, and she
went to bed without making the usual
cuppa. That really did make me cranky.
Wish some blokes were not so prompt
with their pars.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Villefair”: Next time somebody
starts to bash my ear about the shocking
cost of food these days I’m going to open
out. Food dear! How would some of
the whingers like to pay £3 16s. a dozen
for eggs? Or 16s. for one plate of
potatoes? Or 14s. a lb. for tomatoes? 1
could shoot another dozen items at ’em,
and all as pricey, but those three should
rock ’em back on their heels. Where are
people paying such prices? Don’t know —
now; but they were, in South Africa;
just 60 years ago ; Ladysmith. An old
Scotch lady recently showed me a photo-
graph of the auctioneer’s statement after a
sale of food during the renowned siege;
she kept it in a picture-frame on the
mantelpiece. “When I feel like complain-
ing I bide a wee and look at it,” she told
me.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Why, “Metralia,” single out
Buddhists in particular for the contem-
plation of their navels (B. 6/10/’54)?
It is a custom practised by the members
of many sects throughout the centuries;
even by Christian mystics. The Divine
Spark was supposed to dwell somewhere
near this region of the body, and pre-
sumably devotees gazed in that direction
in the hope of locating it. As there
appears to be some doubt whether the
Southern School of Buddhism —the
school best known to Europeans' —
believes in a Divine Spark at all, for
“all is impermanent,” there does not
seem to be much sense in concentrating
upon the navel. Personally I have never
seen a statue of the Buddha representing
him in such an attitude, though the eyes
are often cast down. Even the well-
known images from Ceylon and Burma
show the Blessed One with his eyes gazing
steadily in front or slightly downcast, as
do those at Mathura, in India, those of
Cambodia and the 52ft.-high bronze
statue of the Amida Buddha, erected in
1252, at Kamakura, Japan.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ping”: The R.A.N., no doubt with
tender memories of thousands of miles
of unprotected War II coastline, is very
much alive to the threat of fast, long-
range and long-submersible enemy
submarines. Destroyers Tobruk and
Anzac were asdic-fitted with this in view
during their building ; then Quadrant was
recently given a comprehensive face-lift.
Now Warramunga, a Tribal-class of
War 11, comes back into commission,
complete with anti-submarine and radar
equipment which makes her one of the
most modern sub.-killers to be found in
any navy. And in a couple of months
Queenborough, sister to Quadrant, is due
for commissioning—fitted with that
Mandrakian affair, Limbo, electronically
controlled to locate submarines, set bombs
to explode at the right depths, aim the
mortar and fire it, all without human
aid. It’s reached the stage where it’s a
case of—sub. found, sub. finished.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fair Mac”: The anniversary of
Armistice Day, War I, never fails to
bring back the song our schoolteacher
was earnestly endeavoring to impart to
our tuneless and unreceptive souls when
the news of the cease-fire came through.
The lyric began; “These things shall be :
a loftier race than e’er the world has
known shall rise.” Can’t help wondering
whether the composer is alive today, and,
if so, whether he is completely satisfied
that the loftier race which has arisen
throughout the world quite fulfils his
prophecy. Still, in one instance his prog-
nostication has proved correct. A recent
medical survey in British schools dis-
closed that present-day school-kids aver-
age an inch taller than their grandparents
did.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Howie Wing”; News that spinach
robs the body of calcium, added to a
recent allegation that wholemeal bread
causes pellagra or something, is another
jolt for old-style dieticians. When I was
young it was all so simple : if you ate
up your crusts your hair would grow
curly, with no ifs or buts. Now eating
is a sort of chess-game wherein you
sacrifice calcium to gain iron, or lose
carotene to get vitamin C. There’s a
chain-reaction, too; the harm done by
spinach can be rectified by eating cheese,
but this will cause another deficiency
requiring another antidote —and so on.
By making it so complicated the experts
are really doing the ordinary bloke a good
turn, because if he can’t win On the
scientific side he may as well have the
pleasure of eating and drinking whatever
he fancies.
THE RISE OF TEA
“The Tea Importation Board has raised the
price of tea to merchants by Is. 7d. per lb.”
No longer can we say our cup
Of bitterness is overflowing,
For as the price of tea goes up
The bitterness, alas, is going;
And in this office there will be
Two handfuls in the pot, not three.
At home, where tea is ladled-out
Less by the handful than the pinch —
Tea-leaves enough to make about
A mouthful for an infant finch —
We face a new dilemma bleakly :
To have it weekly, or more weakly.
The teacup-reader's monitory
Prophecies of joys and griefs
Will end —for who can read a story
In cups deprived of half their leaves?
Or else, if she’s a fair reporter,
We’ll spend our futures in hot water.
Is there, perhaps, another medium
Of cheer without inebriation
That will relieve a tealess tedium ?
Or must we break with civilisation,
Proclaim that tea is for the mighty.
And end as pirates on the high-tea?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TT is close on 20 years since
cruiser Australia, on exchange duty
with the R.N. in Alexandria, took on
and beat the boats of the entire Mediter-
ranean Fleet. Nothing she did in after
years quite dimmed the glory of that
achievement. To signalise it, just before
sunset that epic day, a huge tin rooster
“ What's all the fuss about? Anyone would think you had only
the one pump!”
was hoisted slowly up her mainmast,
150 ft. in the air for all Egypt to see.
Every ship in the packed harbor saluted
with a roar of sirens, and at night the
cock was floodlit. Australia was Cock of
the Fleet. Passed her in the ferry yester-
day—lonely, rusty, teeth drawn, cold;
waiting the end in Sydney’s Athol Bight,
Then I saw it. Hoisted on one old
signal halliard, a halliard that had born
some mighty orders in her war days,
was that same old rooster. Someone had
remembered. —“Stroke Oar.”
*i* ❖ ❖
“Balwyn”: Recently delivered from
Britain (flying time 45£ hours), Aus-
tralia’s first Vickers Viscount turbo-prop
airliner, aptly named John Batman, flew
“Gee, but you'd look swell in Mum's polka-dot dress."
into beflagged Melbourne airport with
the quiet assurance of a prima-donna
taking her bow. Actually this arrival,
greeted by 1500 people, marked a mile-
stone in the Old Country’s brave recovery
from war’s economic and industrial
havoc and a triumph of British craftsman-
ship. Seated beside Air Minister Townley
on the dais of welcome at Essendon was
Mrs, Alice Searle, direct descendant of
the man who uttered those historic
words —“This will be the place for a
village,”
“Kelms”: The radio script-writer
whose ads, got “Bo’s” goat (B. 6/10/’54)
would probably be pleased to know that
they created such an unfavorable
impression. Radio-advertisers hold that
any notice taken is better than none, and
they don’t know which type of listener
they prefer—the one who swallows the
blurb hook, line and sinker, or the one
who reacts so violently that the product’s
name is burnt into his brain. The sole
aim of advertising is to put a name into
the public mind, where it will remain
long after the reason for it is forgotten.
That’s why the brewery in the par.
immediately preceding “Bo’s” must have
been pleased when their radio “guest,”
the table-tennis player, attributed his
sporting prowess to abstinence. That
not only advertised their product, it did
it in a pleasant way which would linger
agreeably. Even beer might taste better
if, while drinking it, you could also
enjoy a quiet laugh at the makers’
expense.
“Recla”: What’s in a name? Recently
heard of a hotel-broker who rejoiced in
the name of Drinkwater.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Metralia”: A Victorian householder
rang the fire-brigade; Sydney Symphony
Orchestra came surging into his house
instead, having seen the flames from their
passing bus, N.S.W. phones are puckish.
but seldom quite so apparently ga-ga as
this. Fortunately musicians are more
practical boys than is generally thought.
Even a Sydney fiddler won’t fiddle while
Melbourne burns.
“M.”: Sixty-five years ago last Sunday
(October 24) Henry Parkes made a
Federation speech in the Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) School of Arts. The other day
Parkes’s son, N.S.W. Government Archi-
tect Cobden Parkes, sat in the studio of
Australian Record Co. in Sydney and
listened while radio-actor Gordon Glen-
wright put that speech on to tape. The
spool will go to the city’s historical
society for preservation, and appropriate
playing-back in the School of Arts. Glen-
wright was a commando officer in the
Pacific when Tojo had his shot at
federating.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Justin Thyme”; Let me assure “G. El-
burg” (B. 13 /10/’54) that my par. on
George Giffen was no reflection on
Clarence Moody, George’s manuscript
was submitted to Ward Locke in the
original, with a covering note from
Moody. George no more liked being
“ghosted” than he did being replaced at
the bowling-crease. However, he finally
agreed, and the judicious sub-editing was
carried out.
❖ *>
“5G.R.”: That rifle-regiments only
march at the slope when told to march
“at ease” (B. 6 /10/’54) must be a quip
of “Muskeen’s” regiment. There can be
no more uncomfortable position than “at
the slope” when “at ease.” Gurkha
1 Rifles (and they followed the rifle tradi-
tion sedulously) cut out all that tiresome
business of “ Tenshun, slope arms.” That
was all done in the recruit-company. On
parade the usual order was “At the slope,
quick march.” The drums set the time.
“March at ease, smoke,” saw rifles in
any position ; the most comfortable, slung
on the shoulder.
' '
“W.N.”: A ten-day adult educational
course with a difference will be held in
Hobart in January. Not only can you
combine culture with a Tassie holiday at
a bargain all-inclusive charge, but you can
take along the kids—a matron and nurse
will be in attendance. Tasmania’s Adult
Education Board will be using the build-
ings and spacious grounds of The Friends’
School. Among the lecturers will be
R. G. Casey, Dr. Evatt, Professor Oli-
phant, Professor Messel, Lord Lindsay of
Birker, Dr. A. E. Floyd, Vance and
Nettie Palmer, Jean Bellette and Irene
Webb. Beth Dean, the ballet-dancer, and
her husband, Victor Carell, the baritone,
will be the school’s host and hostess.
K. G. Brooks, acting director of Adult
Education in Tasmania, says: “Anybody
may attend the school, but we are par-
ticularly looking for the parents of
families,” In the evenings after lectures
and classes there will be films, plays,
music and dance recitals, as well as ball-
room dancing and games. An overall,
and very moderate, fee covers accommo-
dation, meals —everything. And two
scenic excursions, at no extra charge, are
thrown in. One is a day trip through the
Derwent Valley to Russell Falls, the other
an afternoon cruise on Hobart’s harbor.
*> ♦♦♦ ***
“D.G.E.”: Someone had blundered.
Article in The Sunburnt Country tells us
that the aboriginal team which went to
England in 1868 was trained by Hayman,
not Wills, as suggested by “Clyne”
(B. 13/10/’54). The records also are
different —my figures show 14 wins, 14
losses, 19 draws. As far as we can say,
they were a pretty rum crew,
♦♦♦ ❖ *X*
“M.F.D.”: Those fee - grabbing
trustees of Parramatta Park (B.
29/9/’54) have been let down lightly
when it is asserted that the only time they
raid motorists is when the wistaria fete
is being held in the grounds of the local
mental hospital. Twice a year in addi-
tion I’ve been asked to fork out two-
bob when I sought to drive in to have a
“cuppa” under the trees. Once was
when motor-boat racing was being
held on the “river” which runs through
the park; wasn’t remotely interested in
this, but had to pay just the same. The
second time some other sporting events
were being held, and again motorists
were bailed-up. The same stand-and-
deliver attitude is adopted by some seaside
councils in N.S.W., which exact a fee for
the “right” to park a car along the
promenade. The fact that the Local
Government Act empowers them to do
this doesn’t make the practice any the less
objectionable.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Skinny”: Fruitologists are nothing to
the Yanks. At the moment the craze is
for “personalised golf-balls”; they have
your name printed on them. No doubt
there will soon be “Tennisracquet-
stringoriums” as well.
❖ *
“Bass”: So Mohammedans must bathe
before prayer (B. 6/10/’54)? That
explains the action of one who haunted
our camp in Palestine. Regularly each
day he came at the same time and went
to one of the watering-places, stripped,
and in full view of the camp watered
and lathered himself thoroughly. The
job took the best part of half an hour
and used up gallons of water, but no
doubt his prayers carried extra weight.
I’ve a suspicion they contained a request
for a continuation of a war that brought
such an abundance of water to a thirsty
land.
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Sack”: “M’boro” gives every step
necessary for successful participation in
“Give It a Title” competitions (B.
13/10/’54) except the most important —
win the lottery. I’d like to share his
simple faith that every entry is carefully
scrutinised by a trained, editorial mind,
judged in its varying subtleties and text,
and thus granted a prize or discarded ;
but let’s look at the thing mathematic-
ally, Sixpence a go, and the prize-money
running into, say, two-thousand smackers.
That’s 80,000 entries to be judged in six
working days; a daily assessing of
13,333.3 titles. Even if there were 13
sub-editors engaged on the judging, each
man would be considering more than a
thousand entries a day. Perhaps the last
one would be judged with as clear and
unjaded a brain as the first; on the other
hand, the reader might select a dozen
not-too-bad titles in the first half-hour,
while his mind is fresh, then make sure
of extracting the zacks from all the other
envelopes.
WORTH LOOKING AT
“An astronomer, G. Duncan Fletcher, says
he considers it likely that flying objects that
have been observed are visitors from outer space
in small ships, diligently observing and mapping
our earth. He thinks they are disposed to be
friendly towards the people of our planet.”
It may be unnerving
To think in their “saucers”
They’re up there, observing.
But they want no war, sirs.
No quarrel they’ll pick.
No action injurious
They’ll take ’gainst our planet;
It’s just that they’re curious
About those who man it,
And what makes us tick.
They’ll see many wonders.
This must get ’em guessing;
Despite planners’ blunders
Somehow we’re progressing.
They’ll marvel as well
How many times weekly
Politicians can fool us,
And why we so meekly
Let bureaucrats rule us
And never rebel.
They’ll find, too, how few know
What goes on around them;
The barneys at UNO
Are sure to confound them.
They’ll raise quite a grin
To find that the “fame” of
Some fourth-rate film-actress
Eclipses the name of
Some great benefactress,
Some real heroine.
They’ll see punters burn up.
Teeth savagely gnashing.
Yet next race-day turn up
To cop the same thrashing.
This also they’ll note:
Dad, Mum and the nippers
In car slowly crawling,
Poor Sunday beach-trippers
In traffic appalling.
“Enjoymentthey’ll quote.
Women wearing men’s trousers
They’ll view as an ordeal;
The yappings of wowsers
Our specialty raw deal.
Then, having seen all —
Our choicest stupidities,
Fatuous vanity.
Blatant cupidities —
Fears for their sanity
Must end their call!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
TATTOOED SEAMAN
Across the chest, convulsing to the ripple
Of swelling pectorals, king cobra tries
To sink his fangs into the farthest nipple
As perspiration beads his tattooed eyes.
And on one bicep, almond-eyed and holy
With peaks of stencilled light, a saint
stares through
The coal-dust on his cloister, melancholy
That he must stay skin-bound with God
in view.
Symbolic cobra writhes in grim illusion ;
Symbolic saint's uplifted palms extol ;
And thus beneath the dyed, minute con-
tusion
Of living parchment-skin, the thunders
roll
As saint and cobra, meshed in red con-
fusion.
Struggle for the seaman’s passive soul.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


EE
BOOK NOW TO FLY
“pressurised
ds
VISCOUNT SCHEDULES COMMENCE IN NOVEMBER
NNP 50l
Jjuma Aujfoaica Aoufavu
fwmMmmemmfm
m
BOOKINGS:
TAA offices
all States.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Military and other New Yorkers will
miss the cheerful, rubicund face of
Lieutenant-General Edward Kenneth
Smart, retiring after five years as Aus-
tralian Consul-General over there. A
distinguished soldier who won M.C. and
D.S.O. with the artillery in War I, after
it he went to England with Bruce as
liaison-officer, and was in the Mediter-
ranean when Hitler broke loose. He was
appointed Q.M.G. in 1940, and nick-
named the “King of Food” at Victoria
Barracks, his job the supplying of the
Army with everything from sheepskins to
tropical helmets. His long association
with America began in 1942, when he
led a small but strong delegation to
Washington to represent the Australian
Army. Except for a period as Army rep.
in London, he’s been in the U.S. ever
since, with three years as Consul-General
in San Francisco. It will take a good
man to replace him.
• •
Casting round Canberra, artist Moore
ran Harold Raggatt down in Supply and
Development, and spudded-in ; a process
Raggatt had recommended years ago
could be done in Westralia. As far back
PETROLEUM
as 1926 he had examined New Guinea
for oil, and later did a similar probing of
Westralia and N.S.W. He took over as
secretary of the Department of National
Development from Commander R. G. A.
Jackson in 1951 shortly after
returning from the U.S., and went
on to direct the Bureau of Mineral
Resources. Appointed Government
Geologist in 1941, Raggatt took his
science doctorate from Sydney Uni-
versity, belongs to half-a-dozen scientific
societies here and in America, and likes
to practise geology, with a fork, in his
own backyard—when he’s not fulfilling
his other fetish, making crazy-paving
paths out of sandstone.
• •
“In the ACT”: Four Asian countries
are to have the benefit of advice on
library matters by one of Australia’s most
competent librarians, Lionel Courtenay
St. Aubyn Key, who since 1948 has been
Deputy Librarian in the Commonwealth
National Library in Canberra. A modest
cove well liked in the capital, Key joined
the library in 1925, and from 1944 to
1947 was in charge of the library section
of Australia House in London. His ser-
vices have been made available under the
Colombo Plan to India, Pakistan, Burma
and Nepal. He was Australian delegate
to the 1945 U.N.E.S.C.O. conference in
Paris, and is looking forward keenly to
further work in a new and stimulating
area.
Commander T. Brunsting, Naval
Attache to the Royal Netherlands Em-
bassy in Australia, was one of the first
naval officers to receive from Queen
Wilhelmina the Bronze Lion —compar-
able to D.S.O. At sea for almost the
whole of War 11, he was one of those
submarine-commanders who torpedoed
to such effect among the rips and reefs
of the Celebes and China Seas. Brought
into Netherlands Navy headquarters in
Melbourne for a spell towards the end of
the war, he stayed there till 1947, went
home to Holland and returned this way,
Naval Attache, last year. Guest of
Rear-Admiral Dowling aboard carrier
Sydney for the Manus air-sea exercises,
he asked to visit destroyer Defender;
was flown across in a helicopter, inspected
the ship’s modern bridge and plotting-
room, and was then invited to join the
captain in his cabin. Brunsting had been
there only a few minutes when he
collapsed and died of heart-failure.
• •
Mentioned here last month that Rodney
Taylor, 24-year-old winner of a £5OO
award for the best radio-actor of the year,
was thinking of using the prize to try his
luck in Peter Finch fashion. Mind made
up, Taylor leaves shortly for the U.K.,
via Hollywood; leaving leading parts in
several fine radio-serials of the services
vacant. More power to his elbow, more
parts to his play-bill.
• •
“M.G.”: An unconventional professor is
Roy Douglas Wright, D.Sc., M. 8., M.S.
(Melb.), F.R.A.C.S., F.R.A.C.P., Professor of
Physiology at Melbourne University, and uni-
versally regarded as the handsomest professor
in it. When he was having a viva voce for his
F.R.C.S. in London and the examiner asked
him a question, Wright said, “Do you want
me to tell you what the textbooks say or what
I think?” Popularly known as “Pansy,” he is
noted for his apt and pungent comments when
asked idiotic questions by the daily papers on
some aspect of his subject. He was addressing
a businessmen’s luncheon and somebody
remarked on the wonders produced in the
world by physiology and physics. “Too
right,” said Pansy gruffly. “I lived on a
farm once and we had a farrowing sow we
wanted to take to the boar. It took all the
manpower on the farm to lift the great fat beast
out of the pen; when we started pushing it up
the ramp into the truck it fell off with a hell
of a bump and nearly burst its stomach. So
we put it on again, and sweating and swearing,
I levered the old cow into the truck, but it
fell off and stuck halfway down. Then 1
had a brainwave. I unhooked a wire from
the electric fence and jabbed it into its rump
—it was in the truck in half a second. That
shows what a knowledge of physics and
physiology can do.” A frequent contributor
to medical and scientific journals, he was bom
in the Apple Island.
• . •
“M.”; The service of the sea is austere,
and Father Time is whittling down the
old hands in the R.A.N. Farncomb’s
carried his oar inshore, Dowling is taking
over from Collins and now Henry Arthur
Showers is packing his kit, after more
than 40 years in the service, a hefty slice
of it spent on salt-water. Showers was
in the original class of cadets (1913),
classmates with Collins, Farncomb,
Esdaile, Getting and Armitage, all of
whom reached senior rank. He carried
to sea with him several prizes for engin-
eering, but shifted shortly to navigation,
specialised, and just before War II was
squadron navigating-oflicer of a British
cruiser-squadron in the Mediterranean.
With war he had a series of cruiser com-
mands—-first Adelaide, then Hobart
(fished in the Solomons), lastly Shrop-
shire, recognised by the Americans (and
by a commendatory letter from Washing-
ton) as the finest radar-ship in the Pacific.
Couple of “firsts,” too —first graduate of
the college to become commander of it,
and, in 1944, with appointment as Second
Naval Member, first college man to reach
the Naval Board. Showers comes ashore
from the important post of Flag Officer-
in-Charge, East Australian Area, due for
retirement only by service standards—at
55 he still retains the nuggety build which
made him one of the Navy’s outstanding
footballers.
A highlight of this year’s N.R.A. meet-
ing at Swanbourne (W.A.) was the
presentation of a life-member’s certificate
to Dougall Leach, of Harvey, claimed to
be the oldest active rifleman in Australia.
A short wiry 85 with a well-thatched
dome, Dougall had practice in the Boer
War and as a sniper in World War I. He
still notches bulls on country and metro-
politan rifle-ranges.
• •
Walter Susskind, Melbourne’s new
“permanent” conductor, currently con-
ducting in N.S.W., is one of the few
conductors since Mozart and Haydn who
likes playing the dual role of soloist and
conductor, which he does extraordinarily
well. He got that way through having
started out as a virtuoso of the piano
before gravitating to the baton. He has
wielded this over all the major U.K.
orchestras, including the Halle, the
Scottish National and the National Youth
Orchestra of Britain —on the Continent
as well. On his way to Australia this
time he stepped off the boat to conduct
Israel’s famous orchestra, which is said
to be composed entirely of virtuosi. He
has made over 200 recordings for
Philharmonica, with some of the world’s
leading soloists in concerto performances.
• •
Knight of the international order of
the homburg now becomes Knight of
the Garter.
• •
Drinking coffee with artist Lusby,
writer was surprised to see him leap to
his feet and semaphore wildly; as a
comment on the coffee this seemed
excessive. Four waitresses and a large
man arrived; Lusby and man said
“Welf , . . what-d’y’know ... cripes,”
and made other remarks signifying
incredulity and pleasure; waitresses
retired. The upshot was that Joe
Gleeson was invited to The Bulletin
office to have his picture taken. He’s
from Townsville (Q.), and is in the gold-
dredging game, an occupation which
takes him to out-of-the-way places. He
likes it. Since 1938 in New Guinea with
the Bulolo Gold-dredging Co., then, for
the past three years, with the parent co.’s
(Placer Development) show on the Nechi
River, 400 miles from the coast, in the
Republic of Colombia. He’s here on
leave. To questions about South
American politics he presented an
imperturbable pink mask; then, when
Lusby made a crack which tickled him,
blue eyes flew open, mouth likewise, a
muted roar of amusement. A quite
PAY-DIRT
effective combination of the diplomat
and the old acquaintance. For,
or course, that kind of business calls for
diplomacy, apart from more rugged
virtues. “No politics,” we assured him.
“It’s your features we want.” “You
might,” Joe said, “say I’m good-looking,
in a detestable sort of way.” A more
accurate description would be in a ruddy,
outdoor way. Ginger hair. With the
N.G.V.R. in War 11.
It was characteristic of Michael
William (“Mick”) Byrne, one of the
best publicity men to have served a
Federal Government, that he should have
been silent in the press about his own
appointment as head of the Common-
wealth News and Information Bureau in
London, which he takes over in a few
weeks from Kevin Murphy, now return-
ing. Byrne is a quiet, unassuming
PRESS AND POLITICS
journalist, never out of temper and never
obviously pressed in even the most
turbulent moments of a public-relations
man’s life; he has the faculty rare
in men of his craft of being able to efface
himself in his job. He was a pioneer
gallery-man in Canberra. He came there
in 1928, and changed over from ordinary
journalism in 1940 to become press-
secretary to Arthur Fadden, finding him-
self immediately for a brief period with
a Prime Minister’s publicity job on his
hands. He served with the Fadden team
until 1949, and when the Menzies Gov-
ernment came to power served the Prime
Minister again for a time, but in 1951
became Government public - relations
officer, in which job he has had a remark-
ably versatile experience. His last big
assignment was the handling of the press
arrangements for the Petrov Commis-
sion, something to test the nerves of Solo-
mon himself in the first wild rush of over-
seas correspondents. He goes to London
with a good many friends in Fleet-
street and 8.8. C. ready to help, and with
a firm friend already there in High
Commissioner “Tommy” White, who is a
pretty sound public-relations man himself.
• •
Into the Silence;
In Perth, at 73, William Thomas Bicknell,
Old Digger who had carried the flag of his
battalion in 30 consecutive Anzac Day marches.
His war service was with the 28th.
In Melbourne, G. G. Jobbins, former chair-
man of the State Electricity Commission and
pioneer of electricity-distribution in Australia.
Engineer and manager of the Melbourne Elec-
tric Supply Co. before it was absorbed in the
S.E.C. in 1930, he was a foundation member
of the first Council of the Institution of
Engineers (Aust.).
At Killara (Sydney) at 71, Frank E. Tilley,
former chairman of Sydney Stock Exchange,
director of the Australia Hotel and other com-
panies, and one-time captain of Killara Golf
Club. Son of the William Tilley who founded
the stockbroking firm of William Tilley and Co.,
he was bom at Charters Towers (Q.), and
became a ‘member of Sydney ’Change upon
joining his father’s firm in 1912.
In Perth, at 83, William Carson, old North-
West identity and veteran local-government
officer. Town clerk at Geraldton and secretary
of the Mullewa Road Board, he had done much
for the development of farming, especially in the
Lower Murchison district.
In Perth, at 78, Arthur Barrett-Lennard, a
pioneer of the Ashburton district. A director
of Boolaloo Pastoral Company, which con-
trolled his three stations, he had been in the
forefront of pastoral development in Westralia
over the past 50 years. He bired blood-stock
and raced them.
In Sydney, at 67, Richard Watkins Hooke,
lately solicitor of the Sydney Water Board, a
position he had held for 26 years. With the
board for close on 40 years, he had much to
do with the drafting of the Act of 1924 which
is the basis of the body’s present operations.


MAHOMET AND THE PIANO


ABORIGINALITIES
SPEEDWAYS when dry, the Wide
claypans that make up much of
the “motor roads” through nor’-west
W.A.’s outback stations are still firm
and easily traversed after heavy rain,
even though covered by several inches
of muddy water and seeming to the un-
“Jones lives every line of his scripts .”
accustomed eye wide lakes of unknown
depth Reliance on this local knowledge
was the undoing of Long Harry the year
the Gascoyne broke its banks and cut
Carnarvon off from the hinterland,
Floodbound in his ’roo-shooter’s camp
on a sandhill, he’d built up a thirst
notable even in that land of mighty
parchings, and every swig of tea made
with muddy water hardened his deter-
mination to be the first man into town
when the waters subsided. The river
was hardly back in its bed before he had
the old Ford roaring up the track. She
flew across the flats behind a bow-wave
a destroyer couldn’t better, with Harry
spitting muddy water and dreaming of
the moment he’d wash away the taste in
beer. By the old blacksmith’s shop where
the main street sloped down to the flats
he spotted, through the sheets of spray,
a wildly waving and gesticulating group,
and above the roar of three-and-a-half
cylinders and an open exhaust could hear
them shouting. Obviously he was to re-
ceive a royal welcome. Equally obviously,
he should make his arrival as spectacular
as possible, and to this end he shoved
wide the throttle for a flying charge at
the last wide sheet of muddy water.
Then he and Lizzie plunged into the 10ft.
hole the river had gouged at the end of
the metalled street. It took a mighty lot
of beer to wash away the taste of the
clay-soup he swallowed before they fished
him out —but they’ll never brew enough
to make Long Harry charge a flooded
claypan again.—“Warrabulla,”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Helldud”: Another interesting feature
of W.A.’s Yanchep Caves (B. 29/9/’54)
is the taproot of a large gumtree which
has pierced the 50ft.-high ceiling and
grown straight down into a pool of clear
water in the floor of the cave, where it
has coiled itself as neatly as if laid by
an able-seaman.
“Lowpointer”: Before white - fella,
entrance to the Yanchep Caves (W.A.)
could be gained only via the small
openings, sheer drops of about 30ft. to
the cave-floors and down which “LW.”
(B. 29/9/’54) avers natives dropped
their dead. But the bones are not heaped,
but in well-preserved skeleton-formation
scattered about in various places. Most
remarkable relic, an ex-six-foot-sixer, is
under a ledge about 100 ft. from the
nearest aperture, which rather debunks
the “dumping of dead” theory. Anyway,
the abo.’s wanderlust argues against his
indulging in a permanent burial-place.
Misadventure and sacrifice may be the
answer, but the most likely reason is that
tribal courts were held near by and those
adjudged guilty thrown into the ready-
made dungeons.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: After drilling for the best
part of two years in Greenland, a British
survey-team has found a 10,000 ft. thick-
ness of ice, and that may upset a lot of
theories about the amount of water
locked in ice at the Poles. That depth
of ice is greater than had previously been
thought possible, and its discovery
suggests that a similar thickness might
exist within the Arctic Circle. If it does
it lends support to a theory that every
8000 years or so sufficient ice accumu-
lates at the Poles to overturn the earth
on its axis, establishing new Poles and a
new equator. That theory would explain
the various floods that have occurred,
and the presence of coal in the Antarctic ;
but it has a hurdle to overcome. Over
the last century the Earth has almost
certainly got warmer. All its great
glaciers are shrinking, bigger icebergs
are appearing off the Antarctic ice-
barrier, farming is being carried further
into the Arctic Circle. So if the ice at the
Poles isn’t quite enough to spin us now,
it isn’t likely to in future. Instead, it’s
likely to become less and less, until it
finally all merges with the oceans. And
that’s why it’s important to know just
how much ice there is there. Present
guesses vary from enough to raise the
water-level 90ft. to enough to raise it
500 ft. The lowest guess would flood
practically every capital city in the world,
and most of the densely populated areas.
The highest would flood nearly half the
present land-surface of the Globe.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“G.”: That spearhead of “Jadi’s”
which suddenly rusted after 50 years
(B. 13/10/’54) could have owed its
previous corrosion-resistance to the fact
“Someone should tell the cad bumpers are barred!”
that it was made of exceptionally pure
iron, which is rarely seen these days, and
possesses some of the properties of a noble
metal. The secret of smelting iron of
such high purity has been known for
hundreds of years to Asiatic metal-
workers, an outstanding example being
the famous “Iron Pillar,” still standing
on the outskirts of Delhi, and as free
from deterioration as the day it was cast,
about (I think) 1200 years ago. The
only analysis of its composition ever
made shows it to be something over 99
per cent, pure iron, and with a much
lower content of sulphur and phosphorus
than can be got in the blast-furnaces
of today. “Jadi’s” spearhead probably
rusted because, firstly, it is set in a brass
candlestick, and, secondly, because the
cyclone’s moist air was heavily salt-laden ;
when two dissimilar metals in contact
are placed in brine electrolytic action
commences, and rust, or corrosion,
follows swiftly. The classic example is
that of an American who, in the ’thirties,
built himself a million-dollar yacht of
monel (copper-bearing) metal above the
waterline and stainless steel below, with
the result that in about three months
after launching she was practically
crumbling away and in the shipbreakers’
bands for scrap.
# * * *
“Muskeen”; If “Dune” (B. 6/10/’54)
has top-dressed his paddocks with super,
during the last few years, that is the
reason why mushrooms are no longer on
his menu.
* * *
“Saddler Sim”: The Texan saddle (B.
61 10/’54) is often called the Mexican
saddle, which it is not. In the U.S. it is
called the American stock-saddle, but it
will never catch on here except for
“show,” chiefly because it is it too
heavy. To provide for the lasso-horn
set-up, a heavy tree is necessary to hold
a plunging beast on a lariat half-hitched
to it. We don’t deal with cattle in that
L or •
t iZ’ fi; t - ’ . .. . , ,
b J Zu
much neater than the 2,in. ones with
SL ,r Th„ “ 6 8
likelv to get P io the American "stock. 6
likely to get to the American stock-
saddle is our military saddle which is
well enough for its purpose but no stock-
man would use one in preference to our
sm, capped pad, plus thigh-pad saddles.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Up in Cape York during
the war we were billeted in a station
homestead whose owners had been evacu-
ated to Brisbane. On the first night a
big green frog, with very long hindlegs,
emerged from behind the kitchen-dresser
and landed on the table after a flying
leap in which he covered nearly 4ft.
Obviously the owners had made a pet of
him, for he settled down directly under
the hanging-lamp and waited for insects
to drop. We christened him Freddo, and
found him a most entertaining old fel-
low. He would sit there with no sign of
life save a solemn wink at intervals, until
an insect fluttered down from the light.
Then there would a flash of a tongue, a
“flup” and the insect would be gone. His
speciality was stalking cockroaches. The
moment one came over the table-edge
Freddo would sneak towards it. His
progress over the last few inches was
almost imperceptible; we would hold
our breaths in suspense. But nearly every
time he bagged the ’roach. For the next
minute the skin over his stomach would
palpitate violently as the big insect kicked
around inside him, but Freddo’s smirk
of satisfaction seemed to indicate that he
liked being tickled from within. Finally,
when full of tucker, Freddo would go to
the table-edge, deliberate for a long time,
make an effort at last and just manage
to lob on the dresser,
• ♦ * *
<tXT _ . . ..
... Non-Fhght : One of the peculiar
l! 11 . 11 ® 8 a bo ut J* n e ? ll l I s f®® 18 r^ a( on
beln 8 l aid dle abe * bas a l° os e skin
enveloping it, rather like the placenta of
f. n aalma * b I . s . nb | b f lnle at . er
that the outer skin dries and takes on its
™" kle< ! and shrivelled appearance and
1e harshness of a rasp,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Gulliver” has his
story wrong about that ebony in the
Kimberleys (B. 6/10/’54). It’s there
all right—a forest of it, and it looks as
though it must have been planted by
visitors a long while ago—but its dis-
coverers weren’t beaten by the blacks,
and at least one of them is still alive,
and working in Perth. This chap got
on to the ebony when he saw a Broome
boatbuilder using an ebony kip, and was
told that the piece of timber had been
brought in by a native from somewhere
up the coast. He went looking for it
and found a forest of it growing almost
to the water’s edge around a big bay,
“ to make hard
f wo a a few logs; but he
! ormed a s y dnlcate . went back with a
f ew m “’ ®“ d ‘* ot out a fhipload of big
logs ’ The stuff was sent to London and
pronounced equal to the world’s best by
'mporterswho were anxious to take all
J® syndicate could send-but they
d l d “' l s ®" d , any m ” e ;. No ’ “ wa f“* th . e
S“ k L. ,ba LrJi^,Jh''TJf ’
they were bad enough then to force the
cutters to maintain an armed guard.
What beat them was Government regu-
]at j ons . xo work their lease they were
required to install sawmills and workers’
amen,tle s—impossibilities in country
wherc every log had t 0 be manhand ] ed
down ste slo s t 0 , he beach
were stUl 1 that hurd]e when Wor ,J
War , intervened and , he venture was
dropped ; but the disco verer retires from
his job next year, and thinks he may
take another look at the ebony. It should
have grown quite a bit in the last 40
years.
BIRDS OF THE BUSH
I heard a blackbird in the hush of dawn, and
started at the sound,
The echoes of that golden bell pealed from
some kingdom that might well
Be still enchanted ground.
And all the world was somehow changed, it
even seemed that, overseas,
All cn a sudden it should be May, as well as
August’s break-o’-day,
In the Antipodes.
There were no blackbirds in the bush, among
the gums and sassafras
Of those lost days, the rocky tiers that rounded
off my childhood years,
The plains of tussock grass.
Only the native birds, I wish that I could hear
them now.
The wattle-doves that fall and rise all morning
with their plaintive cries
About some golden bough.
Down gullies where the tree-ferns raised green
arches and umbrellas,
At dusk the bronze-wing pigeon cooed and many
a lively brotherhood
Of little green rosellas
Fled forth at morning on the wings of any
wind that blew;
And from the sombre hills would sail, with
melancholy screech and wail,
The strange black cockatoo.
Ground-larks ran through the tussock-tufts and
played at hide-and-seek
In tawny reeds where, cold as ice, quicksilver
springs would suddenly rise
And race to catch the creek.
The Whistling Dicks, from slope to slope called
sweetly, lover to lover,
Sang their incomparable song, and wooing owls
said all night long
The same thing, over and over.
Before the Derwent Jackass set his jester’s-bells
a-jingle,
The butcher-bird, Duke William sang, till the
enchanted gullies rang
With echoes, double and single.
Where winking fairy waterfalls fluttered in silver
inches
Blue-caps and redbreast robins would splash
and sometimes one would catch a flash
Of hurrying fire-tail finches.
The magpies in a ringbarkcd gum bereft of
bark or sheath
Warbled like souls in Kingdom-come; sang like
I seraphs from the dumb
Ivory-tower of death.
Oh blackbird on the blossoming rod sing once
again; assuage
Dull days with hints of worlds to come, half-
promise and half-premise; some
Improbable Golden Age!
Sing to me, alien bird, and if old songs have
been denied
So long, as long as you can raise past magic
with that matchless phrase
I shall be satisfied!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


More and more Australian Truckmen
choose BRITISH BEDFORD!
\
UQ.
3
0
*
i
SSe/Mj
from Bedt'nr!? 0 ° m in Scdf ord
S^"«^JT-» w S?4T“ »««■««
you make more 7? for every ,v/ u the
jJ ’ earns more trjps Per day JOb ‘. Bedford
r or ® Hfe* «», does more
U aef
fSSS&IF?**
tSs** 7* Brak “-
organisation. y nati on-wij e
ls/18 k C w t ed^°rd 5 P ri ce f or ql
l° f cwt rH£'v b. Chass/ *<SO,b
dZ -/#-«■ |«,
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
0 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase Plan is available for
your convenience. Ask your
Bedford dealer.
835/36
READING Frank Clune’s Dig I was
astonished to find this sentence:
“ Bendigo struck it rich, the diggings
being named, so I’m told, aften Ben Digo,
the famous prizefighter.” Ben Digo?
Shades of the old Corinthians!
“Bendigo” was the ring-name of
Abednego William Thompson, and it
derived solely from the inability of his
tough followers, “The Nottingham
Lambs,” to get their tongues around
“Abednego.” There were three sons in the
Thompson family, Abednego, Shadrach
and Meshach, the mother having named
her boys after the three victims of
Nebuchadnezzar’s wrath who were flung
into a furnace and miraculously emerged
unharmed. No doubt the good lady was
delighted when, his fighting career ended,
Abednego, one of the first southpaws and
a reputed dirty fighter, became a non-
conformist minister. The story goes that
he met a former acquaintance and
imparted the information: “I’m fighting
the devil now.” And the answer came
promptly: “Aye? Then ’tis hoping lam
that you’ll be fighting him fairer than you
fought Ben Caunt.” —“Bellfield.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Pip Tok”: The old notion that snakes
don’t lay eggs in captivity has been
exploded during a wildlife show at the
York (W.A.) Junior High School, when
a water-snake took advantage of the
privacy afforded by the interval between
the afternoon and evening sessions to lay
four eggs. The show was the first to be
held in a Westralian country centre.
* * * *
“B-herd”: The praying-mantis was
swinging from a trellised passion-vine,
starving on an occasional insect, when a
swarm of bees hove-to and clustered right
under his paw. He reached over casually
and plucked one bee, inspected the
struggling thing critically, then took
a bite out of its belly. Half an hour later
he was still at his vittles, and you could
have cracked a flea on his shiny
paunch. And right then his luck
ran out. The bloke who owned the
bees raced up with a butter-box. He
paused to admire the swarm and his cal-
culating eye met the beady eye of the
mantis. The bee-bloke took one look at
the remains of the last dish, then shot out
a long sinewy arm, plucked the diner
from his twig, roared something about
“think you gonna eat my bees an’ git
away with it . . .” and then screwed his
heel on him before the mantis had time
to protest at this cavalier treatment of an
honest hard-working diner.
♦ * ♦ *
“Sparks”: A request for the closure
of a road on private property provided
a knotty problem for Lismore (N.S.W.)
council when the Lands Department
ruled that it wasn’t officially a road.
After careful consideration a solution,
“ What makes you think we won't complete the voyage?”
beautiful in its simplicity, was pro-
pounded. It was decided to apply to the
department to have the road officially
gazetted as a road and then make a
formal application to have it closed!
♦ * • *
“B. A. Ker”: “The old chap wants
some alterations done to his house,” a
local told me. “But he’s a bit of a rat-
bag.” Work was scarce then, so I rode
the 10 miles on my old grid. The old
boy was a wild-looking codger, with his
tangled mop of grey hair and a week’s
growth of stubble on his lantern jaw, but
he spoke sanely enough. His plan turned
out to be a network of smudged ink-lines
wandering drunkenly over the back of a
tea-packet; still, he knew what he wanted
and the sizes and figures added up. I’d
just given him a price “labor only” and
had it accepted when he suddenly
bounded up and darted to the stove.
“Left it in too long,” he mumbled to
himself regretfully as he juggled some-
thing out of the oven with a scrap of
sugarbag over his hands. If I hadn’t
needed a job so badly I wouldn t
have come back after seeing the
scorched object, an ancient alarum-
clock. However, I started next
day, and although the old cove
seemed quite all right, I took particular
care to avoid leaving dangerous tools in
places where he could snatch them up
quickly. On the fourth day he remarked
it rinrir’c annp
aU U righ ever
i:t,_ t v.„ t . : mt
ttought the oil in it had got stiff’with
he cold and reckoned the heat might
”
melt the thick dollops.
* * * *
“C.T.”: Never having been able
to understand which State of the
U.S. is indicated by such outlan ish
abbreviations as La., Ga., Miss.,
and “Mo.l’m now deriving con-
siderable comfort from the apparent
inability of the Yanks to under-
stand our own simple and easily-
comprehended contractions, which came
to light during a recent world-wide
religious congress in, I think, “111.”
Introducing, as speaker, an Australian
bishop, the chairman made a desperate
guess at the mysterious symbols following
the prelate’s name, and grandly presented
him as “Bishop of North, South, and
West Australia! ” Tut! Imagine anybody
being unable to translate correctly so
simple a thing as “N.S.W., Aust.”
* * * ♦
“Harbel”: The Australian seagull has
never to my knowledge emulated his
Maoriland cousin by flying inland to
attack sheep, ruthlessly plucking out
their eyes crow-fashion ; a practice that
has caused an amendment in N.Z. Law, so
that seagulls cease to be protected birds
when they are more than 25 miles from
the sea. Nor does the Aussie gull flock
inland to the aid of farmers being ruined
by grasshoppers, as the Chinese seagull is
reputed to do. Nevertheless, our seagull
does take a jaunt ashore occasionally—
generally, however, after flooding rains
have left hordes of succulent drowned
worms on waterlogged paddocks,
football-fields, etc. But there had been no
rain for weeks when I saw a flock of gulls
descend on a South Coast (N.S.W.)
paddock several miles from the sea.
Closer range revealed fully 100 seagulls
in holiday mood. The attraction? A
Skinner-system watering a cow-cocky’s
lucerne-patch—and no mob of kids
frolicking under a hose-sprinkler ever
showed greater signs of enjoyment.
♦ * * ♦
t ' i
“Wippegong”: A small fowl of much
interest to birdwatchers, though not seen
by many, is the rock-warbler; his
audience is limited merely because his
habitat is restricted to the Hawkesbury-
sandstone area. Sometimes called rock-
robin, he does rather resemible that
better-known clan in shape, but his color
is as distinctively individual as his locality
—mostly brown, beautifully shaded to a
sort of chocolate-chestnut underneath.
His song is a pleasant little chirrup, but
daintier still is his manner of flitting
about the rocks ; whether moving down or
up amongst the boulders he touches down
with the smoothest action imaginable.
His nest must be about the driest of avian
homes ; always in a cave, under a culvert,
or right inside a shed —always far away
from the reach of rain—it is hooked by
cobwebs to a flake of stone, a wire, a
splintered beam, and from that hangs
down about a foot, with neat side-
entrance, A fascinating little fellow as to
appearance and habits, but, I fear, quite
brainless ; any creature which voluntarily
restricts its movements to the hungry-
gutted Sydney-sandstone region must be
solid bone from ear to ear.
BROWN SNAKE
Slowly he came, with questing head out-thrust,
Onto the sun-hot road, out of the shade,
Intent on prey, cautious but unafraid,
Smoothing a wide trail in the soft, red dust;
Sensing me, paused, head raised in still mistrust,
Lidless eyes wide and bright. The sunshine
played
On five foot six of olive slimness; made
A sinister silk image touched with rust
Of reddish flecks. In glide continuous,
He turned, unhurried, smoothly sinuous,
Threading the dry grass tufts; a thin, brown
stream
Fleetingly glimpsed, vanishing as a dream
With faint, dry rustle, like a sighing breath—
A warning whisper from the lips of death.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


Silver Valley Uranium
Mine No Liability
(To be Incorporated in New South Wales)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
In this Abridged Prospectus the requirements of the
Companies Act relating to Prospectuses have not been full)!
complied with.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL; £1,000,000
Divided into 4,000,000 shares of 5/- each
This is an abridged prospectus dated September 28th,
1954, of an issue of 1,600,000 5/- shares payable 6d per
share on application and allotment, prepayment on appli-
cation of 1/- call to be made immediately following
allotment, and the balance in calls as and when required.
A call of 1/ to be made not before the 17th January
1955, and not later than the 31st May, 1955.
PROPOSED DIRECTORS
EDWARD ERIC FORTESCUE 66 Kamernka Road, North
bridge, Sydney, Chartered Ac
countant (Anst.).
DR. WALTER MUELLER S Sylvia Crescent, Black Rock
Melbourne, Victoria, Nucleai
Scientist.
MIKLOS GRUNBERG 30 Wallis Parade, North Bomb
Sydney, Mining Consultant.
EMIL HERBERT PETER ABELES Winston, Ithaca Road, Eliza
beth Bay, Sydney, Compnn>
Director.
FREDERICK NOEL HANLON 25 Yandarlo Street, Croydoi
Park, Sydney, Consulting
Geologist.
SOLICITORS? Arthur T. George & West, 10 Martin
Place, Sydney.
AUDITORS: Hungerford Spooner & Co., Dalton House,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney,
SECRETARY AND PROPOSED REGISTERED
OFFICE: Charles J. Berg, F.A.S.A., A.C.A.A., A.C.I.S.
UNDERWRITING BROKER: Roland Walton,
Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney. Member
of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
The objects of the Company are to develop a
uranium, silver, lead, copper, zinc and tin bearing
deposit situated at Howell, near Inverell, New
South Wales.
The Company’s Geologist reports that scintillo-
meter readings up to 60,000 counts per minute
and Geiger counter readings of over 100 times
background have been obtained from ore taken
from this deposit. Three shallow shafts have been
sunk, and samples of ore taken from this lode,
accompanied by a high-grade sulphide mineralisa-
tion, have been assayed by the Geophysical
Laboratories of the Bureau of Mineral Resources,
and contained as high as nearly 5 p.c. uranium
oxide (U 308).
Mr. F. N. Hanlon, B.Sc., Dip. Ed., M. Anst. 1.M.M., has
reported to the Company and in the summary of his
report states as folows:
“ITie uranium at Silver Valley does not merely occur
as a surface encrustation along joints and in fractures
and pores of the country rock, like so many of the
deposits being prospected in Australia at the present
time, but Is associated with a sulphide orebody which
occupies a well-defined fissure and has been found below
and not at the surface, thus making it a much more
attractive proposition.”
Application for Shares
Application for shares
must be made on the ap-
plication form accom-
panying the full Prospec-
tus and lodged with the
Underwriting Broker or
through any member of a
recognised Stock Ex-
change.
The applications will
close at 5 p.m. on the sth
November, 1954, but the
Directors reserve the right
to close same at an
earlier date.
The Directors will not
proceed to allotment until
1,600,000 shares have
been applied for. The Di-
rectors reserve the right
to allot any number of
shares as they deem fit up
to the number applied for,
and also to reject any>
application.
Minimum Subscription
The minimum amount in
the opinion of the Direc-
tors required to be raised
is £120,000 to provide
for (a) cash consideration
to the vendors £lO,OOO,
(b) preliminary expenses
£5,000, (c) brokerage
and underwriting
£16,666/13/4, and (d)
working capital
£88,333/6/8.
Underwriting
The issue of 1,600,000
shares has been under-
written by Roland Walton
for 2id per share out of
which brokerage at the
rate of IJd per share will
be paid on all allotted
shares to members of re-
cognised Stock Exchanges
lodging applications bear-
ing their stamp with the
Underwriting Broker.
Applications
Copies of Prospectus and
Application Forms are
obtainable from Roland
Walton, Member of The
Sydney Stock Exchange
66 Pitt Street. Sydney.
UNIMEX STEEL ANGLE FRAMING
■k Cheaper
-k More Versatile
-k 100 per cent. Australian
3 in. x IJ/al J / a in. xlO and 14 Gauge
NO SKILL. NO SPECIAL TOOLS.
NO BORING. NO PLANS. NO
PAINTING (Unimet is stove-
enamelled battleship grey).
★
Write for further information or
phone for our representative to
call and advise.
Manufactured in Australia under
licence by—
LENDRUH
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
838 FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
PHONE: MU5836, M 82075
Saves Time, Cuts Storage Costs
tTsers of UNIMET framing well know Its versatility
—how easily It Is assembled without special tools or
skilled help. They know Its great load-bearing
capacity, that It Is adjustable and RE-USABLE, that
It presents a neat and orderly appearance. They
know, too, of Its long-range economy, its labor-saving,
time-cutting features.
• STORAGE RACKS • SHELVING • TRUSSES
• BINS • WORK BENCHES, and for the thousand-
and-one other jobs in factory, farm, shop and home.
PARTICULARLY SUITABLE FOR WOOL BINS and
WOOL SORTING TABLES.
?m
f/m
mmm
•: > . .s.. > .
■
m
m
WTmm
m
Racks carrying 60 tons and using 1200 feet of UNIMET.
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Testing Period
TN a market for oil and
uranium shares that has been
very subdued indeed, one of the
most encouraging news-items has
been the offer of Mt. Isa Mines,
Ltd., made to the Atomic
Energy Commission, to construct
and operate a treatment-plant at
Mt. Isa (Q.). Certainly the offer
was subject to the stipulations
that enough ore must be dis-
closed in the district to warrant
the construction of the plant, and
that suitable arrangements must
be made with the Atomic Energy
Commission for construction
and operation of the outfit. But
the offer comes from a respons-
ible concern which is taking a
serious interest, even if a
cautious one, in the uranium-
bearing prospects of the Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry area.
Previously it was announced
that Australasian Oil Explora-
tion and Petroleum Drilling
Corp. (which has associations
with the Santa Fe concern in the
U.S.A.) proposed to establish a
joint treatment-plant in the Mt.
Isa area. It seems unlikely that
both projects will be proceeded
with unless much more payable
ore is proven than is the case at
present. The true nature and
extent of the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
area has yet to be determined.
Even the Walton leases —Mary
Kathleen —held by an A.O.E,
subsidiary, have yet to be
proved. But the area merits
thorough investigation.
In West Australia the search
for oil goes on methodically, if
unspectacularly. Rough Range
No. 4 was spudded-in on
October 16 and was nearing the
aimed-at stratum when this went
to press. The site is 1732 ft.
south of No. 1 well—by coming
within 600yds. of the original
“strike” Wapet would appear to
have reduced its anticipations of
the extent of the oilbearing sands
in the immediate vicinity, “pro-
ducers” No. 2 and No. 3 (at a
greater distance) having been
dry. Drilling of No. 1 goes on,
with the oilbearing sands sealed
off, and hard rock continues to
slow drilling as the bit nears
11,000 ft. At Shothole Canyon
(Cape Range) the hole has not
yet got to 6000 ft.; siltstone, with
some inflammable gas, has been
met with, but no positive
evidence of oil.
Drilling at Grant Range, near
Freney’s Nerrima Dome,, is to
begin soon ; and it is intended
also to prospect Barrow Island,
near the Montebellos.
The shares in Oil Search, Ltd.
(representing the Australian pub-
lic’s 10 p.c. interest in Austra-
lasian Petroleum’s Papuan oil-
exploration) remain low and
interesting at around 16s.
John Meagher (Holdings)
All the 160,000 £1 ord. shares
in the south-western N.S.W-
storekeeping business of John
Meagher and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
been bought by John Meagher
(Holdings), Ltd., which issued
400,000 £1 ords. in exchange for
them.
Holders of the original shares
have also subscribed for 50,000
£1 shares in the new co. at par,
making its paid capital £450,000,
all in £1 ords. The clients of
Ernest L. Davis and Co., Sydney
brokers, have been offered 50,000
of these shares at 30s, each in
order to convert the enterprise
into a public co. for tax purposes
and to qualify it for listing on
the Stock Exchange.
The old operating co. has an
issue of 100,000 4| p.c. redeem-
able (1964 or earlier, at the co.’s
option) pref. shares of £1 each
which are held outside the new
holding co.
The business was founded by
John Meagher, M.L.C., in 1867.
It was incorporated in 1905, and
in its early days had its head-
office in Bathurst. In 1914 its
paid-up capital was £50,000. The
co. has now removed its head-
office to Sydney, where it has a
buying-office, and its country
trading branches are not only at
Barmedman, Temora and West
Wyalong, but also at Caragabal,
Cootamundra, Forbes and Yass.
All the store freeholds are
owned by the co., and it has
many residential properties in
the country towns mentioned,
and they are occupied by the
staff. There are over 300
employees.
Prior to the sale of the 160,000
ords. to the holding co. this year,
freeholds were written-up by
£140,000 (less than the surplus
disclosed by independent valua-
tion) ; reserve adjustments were
made; goodwill was written-off;
and provision was made for a
tax-free div. of £llO,OOO to old
shareholders (of this sum
£70,000 will be invested in 6 p.c.
unsecured notes, maturing in
1961).
Allowing for all these things,
and the introduction of the new
capital, net tangible assets per
holding-co. share amount to
275. lOd. (The N.S.W. Stamp
Commissioner has valued the
shares at 365.) Over the five
years to June 30 last average net
earnings have represented 18.3
p.c, on the new capital.
If a 10 p.c. div. is paid, the
shares at 305., plus brokerage,
would yield about 6 \ p.c.
Uranium Holdings, N.L.
One of the latter-day Sydney
launchings. Uranium Holdings,
N.L., has had its public offer of
1,300,000 ss. shares underwritten
and subscribed. The prospectus
speaks confidently of uranium
prospects in Australia, and
reckons that deposits of uranium
in the Rum Jungle area (N.T.)
are “among the largest world-
known deposits.” The co. itself
intends to begin its operations in
the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry area
(Q.), “where recently areas of
great value have been dis-
covered.” The co.’s consulting
engineer, C. H. Donaldson, says
that the whole Mt. Isa—Clon-
curry uranium-bearing area is
approximately 60 miles wide by
150 miles long ; “the axis extends
from south of Walton’s fabulous
find to Mt. Oxide and beyond”;
the co.’s own leases (under
option) are situated near the
main axis, and consist of the Six
Kangaroos group (30 miles west
of Cloncurry), Shinny’s Luck
and Pickwick (65 miles n.-n.-w.
of Mt. Isa), and Mt. Surprise
(four miles from Shinny’s Luck
and Pickwick).
Applications have been lodged
for three authorities-to-prospect
and one permit-to-enter in the
N.T., two being near the “Nauc”
area.
Amid a good deal of talk of a
generally optimistic character the
prospectus says:
The directors do not desire to
create undue optimism of early suc-
cess of the objects of the company
(although evidence of radioactivity
exists on some of the areas selected),
as they fully appreciate surface indi-
cations are not conclusive proof that
commercial uranium ore - bearing
bodies exist at depth. It is empha-
sised that the purpose for which
the company is being formed is to
prospect and investigate areas which
are considered to offer indications of
the existence of uranium-ore.
The speculator in the co.’s
shares should accept that as a
true pointer to the co.’s prospects.
There are many, many snags in
the successful mining of
uranium in Australia; and it
should be borne in mind that,
even if the Rum Jungle deposits
are “among the largest world-
known deposits,” they are not
reputed to consist of pitchblende
in its massive form (as in
Canada and the Belgian Congo),
and that “Walton’s fabulous
find” near Mt. Isa has still to be
proved and developed in a
mining sense.
Vendor’s consideration is not
heavy. For options, Lamfordon
Pty., Ltd., gets £7700 in cash
and reimbursement of out-of-
pocket exes, (estimated at
£2000). If the options are
exercised, £lO,BOO is payable for
the Mt. Surprise area, £2250 for
the Pickwick, £2250 for Shinny’s
Luck, while 40 p.c. of the net
proceeds of the Six Kangaroos
are (after meeting mining and
cartage exes.) goes to Uranium
Search Pty., Ltd,
Lamfordon or its nominees
may take up 350,000 ss. ords. at
par within two years of the co.’s
registration.
On the co.’s board are Ralph
Ford, D. R. Fullerton and F. E.
Headlam. Consulting geologist
is Dr. W. R. Browne, who was
Reader in Geology at Sydney
University.
Industrial Shares
The demand for industrial
shares continues to be selective
and restrained. The downward
trend previously evident in the
front-liners has tended to spread
to the second and third lines,
though these have a buttress of
longer yields behind them.
The splitting of the Morris-
car (Nuffield) franchise in Syd-
ney between York Motors and
Peter Lloyd Industries, Ltd., and
the taking-over of country
distribution by the Nuffield
organisation itself, has caused a
drop in York Motors scrip and
a rise in Peter Lloyd. York
Motors will form a subsidiary,
Lancaster Motors Pty., Ltd., to
handle the Nuffield metropolitan
agencies (Morris, Wolseley and
Riley), while it will continue to
distribute Chrysler products,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Singer and
Studebaker products, as well as
Howard Rotary-hoes and other
implements, in N.S.W. through
existing subsidiaries. It has
Queensland interests as well,
Peter Lloyd Industries, Ltd.,
through subsidiaries, will handle
its share of the Nuffield Sydney
metropolitan franchise jointly
with Lancaster Motors, and will
also control N.S.W. distribution
of Nash and Mercedes-Benz
cars and Dennis trucks.
The M G. franchise for Syd-
ney and Newcastle remains with
P. and R. Williams Holdings, Ltd.
Among other changes affect-
ing investment shares, in
Adelaide the David Jones, Ltd.,
offer for the ord. shares in
Charles Birks, Ltd., has been
accepted by all but a minute
fraction of Birks shareholders.
With the new issue fully sub-
scribed, B.H.P. fully-paids fetch
40s. 6d., the contribs. 18s. 6d.
(20s, to pay).


A BANKING TRADITION
... down through the Changing Years
tm
MANY of our customers, who founded industries and commercial
enterprises in the early days, began in a small way. Their
banking transactions were often modest, though important to them.
Our policy, down through the years, has been to offer the same
friendly, efficient service to all our customers, whether their banking
needs be large or small. Thus, we have aided many enterprising men
and women to achieve their goal.
THE
SAME EFFICIENT
FRIENDLY SERVICE
TO CUSTOMERS
BOTH LARGE
AND SMALL
To-day, we of this Bank,
owned and staffed by Austra-
lians, are proud to carry on our
traditional service. ,
Head Office, or the Manager
of our branch nearest to you,
will gladly give particulars of
our service.
-V
-I
yj|g
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which Is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
sd
£175
SIMPLEX 1,000-WATT
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at 1,100
r.pjin. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr.
capacity, quoted on request.
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSENDEN ROAD, NEWTOWN. SYDNEY. H.S.W.
FaM in the
Future
“Keep your feet on the ground” is an excellent
saying. But this is an age when we must also “think
in the air,” and I can see no better example of how to
do both than in the superlative service the airlines are
rendering Australia.
As one who uses the airlines frequently, I speak
of this from personal experience. In A.N.A. and
T.A.A. and the other services, Australia has something
of which it can be proud. They are good by the best
world standards. /'
In New Guinea recently I saw what Qantas is
doing to link the coastal centres by air, and to provide
communications to parts of the interior to which no
roads lead. The morale value of aircraft in New
Guinea is inestimable.
Write all of this up in large credit to what is going
into the welding of Australia and its territories as a
nation.
Aviation is making tremendous advances.. We
can say that for every person carried by Australia’s
internal air services in 1939, 45 are carried today.
Put the flight hours at more than seven times, the
flown miles at from eight to nine times what they
were 15 years ago. Say that our air services now are
taking up to 150 times the volume of freight, and 45
to 50 times the quantity of mail they carried in 1939,
and we get some idea of the increasing strength they
give to the Australian effort.
And there has been corresponding growth in the
services operating between Australia and overseas.
Darwin has become a first-class airport for the world.
The airlines are giving this continent a geographical
balance.
Behind the machines and the crews that fly them
are the administrative and technical brains, without
which the best flying skills would be handicapped.
And behind these again are the designers and
manufacturers of aircraft.
It takes money and effort to maintain an aircraft
industry and to train its personnel to high efficiency.
But this is one thing Australia, with the wide spaces
it has to command, can well afford.
Airlines are not a luxury; they are simply a
means of living to the times —and to the future.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
Conversion of plantation trees
into marketable commodities has
been carried forward a big step
since N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
began producing pulp and paper
at Kinieith in the latter part of
last year, and the new industry is
now getting more firmly on its
feet.
Yet this is only the first stage
in a development that will have
to be carried a long way further
before N.Z.F.P. is in a position
to make full use of its raw-
material reserves. At present
capacity only 50,000 acres of
trees are millable on a perpetual
cycle, and the co. has more than
three times this area of forest,
all at the stage of harvesting.
Hence there is still an outsize
production problem. This is the
only problem at the moment, so
heavy is the demand for the
output of the mills, both locally
and in Australia.
Just what the co. intends to
do to increase its capacity hasn’t
been disclosed, but this is some-
thing the chairman, knight David
Henry, should be commenting on
when he comes back from his
world trip.
Although the benefit of the
new mills was felt only at the
tail-end of the past year’s trad-
ing (to March 31), some of the
gain is reflected in net profit, up
£19,960 to £303,921. With such
a lift in production, it was almost
superfluous to record that sales
were at a peak. The result gives
no clue to probable returns for
the current year, in which the
£6.6 million pulp- and paper-
making plant will show its real
worth. It was premature to
expect a div. on ords. when the
co. was just warming-up to the
work, and those who speculated
on this idea pushed the shares
too high.
Said the co. in its annual
report: “Success can bring major
problems, and, while the board is
anxious to expand forest-utilisa-
tion as quickly as possible, it is
no less important to consolidate
the large existing organisation,
which has been developed only
during the last twelve years.”
A million pounds has been
placed to reserve from accumu-
lated surpluses to finance further
production as the co. sees the
need, at the same time consoli-
dating strength and safeguarding
shareholders’ equity. For
another year or so F.P. has a
fairly clear run of the market,
bdt after that the bigger Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co. will begin
to make its weight felt.
It has been F.P.’s good fortune
to get going a couple of years
ahead of Tasman, and at a time
when expanding markets have
played into its hands. The
recovery in Australian demand
has been most opportune, and
F.P. alone can’t meet it fully.
After its big capital-outlay
over several years, F.P. was
owing £4,743,033 on debentures
at the balancing-date, a rise of
£BBO,OOO. Interest on this is a
cost-item before tax. Taxation,
which has been a bone of con-
tention, is concealed behind a
statement that past assessments
to which the co. objected were
settled with the Tax Department
on “a satisfactory basis.” Tax-
provision no longer required fol-
lowing the settlement has
been used to swell general
reserve by £409,889. Total
shareholders’ funds now stand
at £8,200,976, a gain of nearly
£700,000. Assets are up
£1,315,965 to £13,390,049, at
which they should be fairly
steady for a while,
Matea Forests, Ltd.
One. of the valuable stands of
Finns radiata in New Zealand
for which there is at present no
market, and only an indefinite
prospect of one, is that owned
by Matea Forests, Ltd., at Puka-
hunui, on the southern side of
the great Kaingaroa State Forest.
Matea’s block is little more than
30,000 acres, compared with the
Crown’s half a million, but
looked at by itself it is a rich
source for raw material and
could yield good profits if the
trees could be felled and milled.
The only possible buyer at this
stage is the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co., Ltd., which has
enough forest nearer to its mills,
at present under construction.
Tasman’s source of supply is the
“Murupara Working Circle,”
and Matea has been negotiating
to have its 30,000 acres included
in the circle, which has a spread
of about 200,000 acres. To ex-
tend the circle further would be
a fairly simple matter, although
the pattern would be rather
spoilt, as the area would then
be more pear-shaped than circu-
lar, but the main question is not
one of shape ; it is whether Tas-
man could, or should, contract
to buy from Matea when the
handier supply already arranged
is apparently adequate. Matea’s
forest could give a sustained
yield of five million cubic feet
yearly of material equal to
Murupara in quality.
Matea Forests, Ltd., with
h. in Sydney, has been a
separate co. since the former
Whakatane Paper Mills, Ltd.,
split up into two concerns in
1947, when Whakatane Board
Mills, Ltd., was founded as the
operating unit. For seven years
Matea has been on a care-and-
maintenance basis, waiting for
something to turn up. Talks
with Tasman in the past year
have been exploratory, accord-
ing to Matea’s annual report (to
June 30), and there are still no
plans for trading. Outlay on the
forest has been “capitalised”—
i. debited to the future.
Healthy growth continues, as
in all other pine-plantations in
Maoriland. Roads, bridges and
administrative buildings have
been maintained and boundary
firebreaks kept in order, and the
co. has run up a considerable
liability of £28,000 to Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd. W.B.M. will
continue to put up funds for
reasonable maintenance until
December, 1956. Matea is plan-
ning to convert its Bs. shares into
stock-units of equal value. They
total 1,920,287, nominally worth
£768,115, but the price, which
reached a peak of 3s. 6d. a share
on N.Z. markets a while back,
has slipped lately below 3s.


How much
advt
time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers In
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(i Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kaier .
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland*
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart,
ftrmaaeat Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Humes, Ltd.
TVTT earnings of the Hume group
' appear to have passed their peak
for the time being. Still, the immediate
outlook favors maintenance of a high
level of profit in relation to share capital,
and the spread of activities continues to
widen. Also, to meet growing competi-
tion from at home and abroad, the
emphasis in policy is now upon research,
the aim being to widen the range and
improve the quality of products as well
as reduce unit costs.
Following big changes in the organisa-
tion and financial structure of the under-
taking, shareholders reaped some
fine harvests of recent years, thus
compensating for earlier disappointments.
The ord. div., which averaged 4.8 p.c. for
the decade to the close of accounts in
1948, was lifted from 8 p.c. in 1949 to
10 p.c. for the next three years and to
17i p.c. for the two years to June 30 last.
And the distributions were sweetened
with issues o£ 270,750 new £1 ords. at
par. in June, 1950, followed five months
later by £405,920 of bonus scrip and in
August, 1951, by a further 456,830 new
£1 ords. also at par. Paid capital thus
became £2,037,500 in 112,500 A and
250,000 B prefs., both p.c, cumulative,
and 1,675,000 ords.
Originally it was the Hume Pipe Co.,
formed in 1920. The two chief offshoots
were Hume Steel, Ltd., and Hume Indus-
tries (Far East), Ltd. The parent changed
its name to Humes, Ltd., in 1950, when
the Steel Co. became a wholly-owned
subsidiary. In the following year the
New Zealand interests of the parent and
Steel cos. were passed to a new offshoot,
Hume Industries (N.Z.), Ltd., for
£400,000 in scrip.
As public and private spending on
water-supply, sewerage and other con-
struction work increased, net earnings of
the group responded;
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
1 ‘Dividends x
Pref. ■ —Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7* p.c. p.c. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 243.327 13,125 10 57,534 172,668 1.279.860
Revaluation assets, £477,190 .. 1,757,050
Reserves capitalised, £405,920 .. 1,361,130
Add exchange adjustment, £65,054 .. 1,416,184
Written off war claims, £195,470 .. 1,220,714
Less net res. adjustments, £381,835.. 838,879
1951. .338,382 27,188 10 121,817 189,377 1,028,256
Net unexplained additions, £31,143.. 1,059,399
Written off, £29,616 1,029,783
Reduction intangibles, £17,308 .. 1,047,091
1952. .527,106 27,188 10 167,500 332,418 1,379,509
Written off, £14,277 1,365,232
Unexplained decrease, £177,466 .'. 1,187,766
Reduction intangibles, £291,499 .. 1,479,265
From tax reserve, £6388 . . . . 1,485,653
1953.. 711.175 27,188 17* 293,126 390,862 1.876,515
Written off, £18,600 .. .. ' ..1,857,915
Added intangibles, £3403 .. .. 1,854,512
Unexplained reduction, £26,064 ..1,828,448
1954.-625,235 27,188 17* 293,125 304,922 2,133,370
1953 profit adjusted for overprovision taxation
( £91,708).
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £20,583.
• After deducting outside interests.
Last term output increased, but margins
had to be cut and extra costs absorbed
in order to meet competition. So, after
adjusting the 1953 profit for overpro-
vision of £91,703 for taxation in that
year, there was a slip of £85,940 in the
net result. The £625,235 of profit claimed,
however, covered the pref. divs. and
35.7 p.c. on ord. capital as against 40.8,
29.8, 25.5, 40 and 25.5 p.c. back to 1949.
That leaves out of the figuring a net
unexplained reduction of £26,064 in
reserves and £18,600 written off an
asbestos deposit in New Zealand. Even
so nothing had to be strained to main-
tain the 17£ p.c. distribution.
Trading results of individual members
of the group compare as follows;
Paid Y Profit
Capital. 1953. 1954.
Humes, Ltd 2,037,500* 474,315 442,685
Hume Industries (F.E.) 950,000 t 229,967 174,515
Hume Industries (N.Z.) 650,000$ 30,329 40,470
* Includes £362,500 7* p.c, prefs. t Includes £250,000
5 p.c. participating prefs. $ Includes £250.000 5 p.c.
prefs.
Since profits include amounts due to
outside interests the totals differ from
those shown in the introductory table.
The slip of £31,380 in the parent co.’s
net earnings was the result of factors
already mentioned. The contraction of
£55,452 in the Far East co.’s figures was
due entirely to a smaller div. (£32,637,
down £61,815) received from its associate,
Rheem-Hume (Far East), Ltd., which
turns out steel drums used as containers.
During the year £368,733 was added
to the book-value of freeholds, buildings
and plant, and debtors’ balances increased
by £404,533, while the growth in the
outside debt (including tax-provision)
amounted to only £148,744 —surplus earn-
ings and provisions provided most of the
balance:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £2,037,500 £2,037,500 £2,037,500
Reserves .. .. 1,379,509 1,784,812 2,133,370
Outside interest .. 359,256 549,910 542,159
Overdraft .. 521,498 51,007
Creditors* ~ 1,289,587 1,546,562 1,644,299
Final div. .. 97,344 189,469 189,469
Total .. £5,684,694 £6,108,253 £6,597,804
Freehold .. .. 329,348 324,991 364,731
Buildings . . .. 904,500 957,887 1,147,108
Plant ~ .. 1,000.904 1,062,502 1,202,310
Asbestos deposits 133,170 163,963 163,681
Shares other cos... 47,651 62,901 62,901
Stocks . . . . 1,993,075 2,127,394 2,057,683
Debtors .. ~ 1,089,339 1,004,891 1,409,424
Cash, etc 34,184 308,587 149,658
War claims .. 152,523 95,137 50,308
Total .. £5,684,694 £6,108,253 £6,597,804
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Stocks (in at cost or under) were reduced
by £69,711 and cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £158,929. Owing to the fall in
world prices for asbestos-fibre, develop-
ment of the joint asbestos venture in
Southern Rhodesia —Goliath Portland
Cement is the other partner—remains in
abeyance. Hume’s interest in this venture
stands in the books at £100,404, cost.
Despite the outlay on fixed assets, the
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,782,298) was only £17,680.
Since the close of accounts a new
subsidiary, Standard Steel (1954) Pty.,
has been formed with a paid capital of
£200,000 (put up by the parent in cash)
to take over the Standard Steel Co., Pty.
(Melb.), which fabricates light structural-
steel products. The outlook for this new
offshoot is “very bright,” the chairman
says. In Australia the parent has orders
on hand valued at over £4,000,000),
which should keep its main factories in
continuous operation beyond the current
financial year, and the Singapore factory
is booked up for several months to come.
The f.-p. £1 ords., which shot up from
395. in October, 1952, to 50s. a year
later, recently sold at 565. 6d., at which
figure the return is 6.2 p.c. on a 17-* p.c.
div. basis. At 255. 3d. the A and B
prefs. each yield 5.5 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £37 Is. sd. A, £l6 4s. Bd. B and
455. 6d. ords.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
ONE of Sydney’s big and fashionable
department-stores. Farmers has a
strong, well-balanced and flexible financial
structure, and an able and cautious
management, which mean much so
far as ability to resist changes in
the economic climate, and their effects,
upon bringing goods and services to the
consumer, are concerned. Moreover
the co. has long been a good profit-
earner and dividend-payer, with a wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions. Also the gearing of the capital
structure —of the £1,000,000 of share-
capital three-fifths is pref. money costing
on the average 6| p.c.—and the size of the
free reserves (£1,605,591 at June 30 last)
enhance investment interest in the equity,
or ord., scrip.
For these and other reasons, including
a lift in the rate of distribution from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c., of which 2£ p.c, is called
bonus, the f.-p. £1 ords., which had
advanced from 425. in October, 1952, to
455, 6d. a year later, fetched 595. last
week. The return at 595. is 5.1 p.c. on a
15 p.c, distribution, which was four times
covered by last term’s available profit.
The 6 p.c. first and 7 p.c. second prefs.
at 225. 6d. and 255, yield 5.3 p.c, and
5.6 p.c, respectively. Excluding a special
stock reserve of £250,000, net tangible
cover is £l3 Os. 6d. first and £6 os. 3d.
second prefs. and £5 os. 4d. ords.
In common with most other traders,
earnings received a jolt in 1952, but the
recovery was prompt, thanks to various
Government measures (including import-
restrictions) and favorable economic
developments. The improvement con-
tinued last term, when goods came
forward in better volume at steadier
prices, and personal spending, and
therefore retail turnovers, gathered
momentum, due largely to a high and
rising level of employment at fat and
comparatively steady wage-rates. The
year to June 30 last closed with retail
turnovers generally about 9 p.c. above
the opening level, and sales have con-
tinued to increase at a slower rate since.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its own turn-
over or operating exes. But after setting
aside £70,376 (up £21,093) for deprecia-
tion and £205,000 (up £51,000) for taxa-
tion, net earnings increased by £96,018
(47 p.c.), reaching a record £300,179:
t Dividends
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 217,928 12,000 28,000 40,000 7 Q(VI
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. j 1.0*7,301
From tax reserve, £4458 .. 1,051,759
1951.. 244,887 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. \ 1,156,646
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. j
From tax reserve, £20,330 .. 1,176,976
1952.. 100,728 12,000 28,000 40,000 7 ~0 , - n .
To staff fund, £10,000.. .. j 1-187,704
From stock reserve, £150,000 .. 1,337,704
From tax reserve, £3226 .. 1,340,930
Profit sale shares, £317 .. .. 1,341,247
1953.. 204,161 12,000 28,000 40,000 1,465,408
To staff fund, £12,000 .. .. 1,453,408
From tax reserve, £17,004 ..> 1,470,412
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. 1,420,412
15 p.c.
1954.. 300,179 12,000 28,000 60,000 1,620,591
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,605,591
The £300,179 of profit, which excludes
£17,004 previously overprovided for taxa-
tion, was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£40,000) and show a juicy 65 p.c. on the
£400,000 of ord. capital, compared with
41, 19.1, 51.2, 44.4 and 37.4 p.c. back to
1949. So the lift in the distribution,
already referred to, was a comfortable
matter. Of the £200,179 of the year’s
profit that remained, £15,000 was sent
to the staff fund, and £50,000 to special
stock reserve, lifting it to £250,000,
or 18.4 p.c. of the book-value of
the inventory. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserve combined) the profit
was a wink under 10 p.c.
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened, the growth in
the more -or - less liquid surplus
(£1,245,198) being £170,673:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,187,704 1,453,408 1,605,591
Mortgages .. 300,000 250,000 200,000
Creditors, etc. .. 510,588 267,664 249,613
Tax provision .. 79,000 154,000 205,000
Staff fund .. 69,765 69,823 71,861
Final div. .. 20,000 20,000 40,000
Total .. £8,167,057 £3,214,895 £3,372,065
Freehold and plant 1,374,935 1,378,873 1,860,393
Stockf .. . . 1,184,406 1,032,925 1,109,893
Book debts . . 456,435 474,484 520,249
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 151,281 328,613 381,530
Total .. £3,167,057 £3,214,895 £3,372,065
t After deducting special reserve £360,000, 1952;
£200,000, 1953; £250,000, 1954.
The net growth in stocks was £76,968,
book-debts £45,765 and cash, etc..
£52,917. The £51,896 spent on remodel-
ling and brightening the store, and
£18,480 besides, was written off on
account of depreciation.
Although prophets of economic trouble
must expect to be treated with a certain
amount of impatience when they let fly
while profits are at their peak, the chair-
man’s statement that “were it not for a
fairly free flow of imports our internal
price-level for many commodities would
be higher and exerting further upward
pressure on our costs structure” is a
timely pointer to the fact that our costs
have got out of line with those of other
countries.
United Provisions, Ltd.
TPHIS big ham- and bacon-curing,
canned-foods and smallgoods-manu-
facturing and -distributing organisation,
which owns a score of factories and ware-
houses scattered throughout Australia and
New Zealand, has been a disappointment
to shareholders ever since the present
holding co. amalgamated the interests of
Foggitt Jones and J. C. Hutton in 1927.
For those on the ord. register, five out
of the 11 years to 1938 were dry ones,
average distribution for the period being
2.7 p.c. For the 16 years to June 30 last
the average was 4.8 p.c., highest 8 p.c. in
1945 and 1946 and lowest 1} p.c. in 1940.
And it is difficult to say exactly what lies
ahead of the undertaking in the way of
profits.
The trouble rests not with management
but with conditions in the trade, which of
recent years has forced some of the co.’s
competitors to temporarily withdraw
from the arena. The two operating cos.
trade in both the home and export mar-
kets, and there has been no lack of de-
mand for their products, which have long
enjoyed a high reputation for quality. On
the buying side keen competition from
overseas and local operators and seasonal
and other conditions have resulted in
anomalous price-fluctuations. At the
same time the mounting wage and other
costs has kept margins very fine,
especially in overseas markets, where
pressure of foreign competition has, from
time to time, rendered business
unprofitable.
Last term turnover increased by over
10 p.c., reaching £9,116,216. Yet the
bigger business yielded less profit, for
reasons which the chairman sets out in
this way:
A general surplus of pigmeats accumu-
lated in Australia at costs which did not
allow exports to overseas markets, except
at considerable financial loss, and conse-
quently there was severe and indiscriminate
price-cutting on the local market, with most
curers sustaining losses in the disposal of
thejr accumulated stocks.... Our export
business during the year has been mainly
in canned meats to the U.K., and whilst
this has been largely influenced by Aus-
tralian production-costs, a conservative
trading policy has enabled us to show good
profit-margins without risk of large stock-
depreciation losses.
So, after setting aside £62,732 (up
£10,403) for depreciation and £30.000
(£72,505 less than paid during the
previous term) for taxation, there was a
slip of £29,643 in the year’s combined
net earnings :
United Provisions and Subsidiaries,
, Dividends To Rfr- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1950.. 50,137 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 324,370
Unexplained reduction, £1691 .. 322,679
Profit sale assets, £7503 .. .. 330,182
1951.. 78,163 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 88,500 324,845
Profit sale assets, £47,518 .. .. 372,363
Unexplained reduction, £4294.. .. 368,069
1952. .119,430 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 93,000 26,430 394,499
Profit sale assets, £24,155 .. .. 418,654
1953.. 86,787 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 93,000 412,391
Profit sale assets, £152,761 .. .. 565,152
1954.. 57,094f8 p.c. 4 p.c. 74,000 548,246
* Subject to intangibles, £291,845 at 30/6/’54.
t Subject to revision.
Of the £57,094 of profit the pref, div.
called for £36,000, leaving £21,094, or
2.2 p.c., available for the £950,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 5.3, 8.7, 4.4, 1.7


AastroUon «-*** C60 . e e W-
Coy. * fo'* t ' er
Lark® Hoskins & Coy. Ltd. ° ,W ° rfhs Lfd <
_ _ « fcJf Ar _ . « ••
arfce Hoskins & Coy. Ltd.
„ettn,h«n.. »<*• N C s °"X ribu,ion
mom & Australian W
’ rU,Ply - t*“ r ' (0 ' e
-itt Son & Bodqory “t\ re ro« *»•
dsf
dfs
For freedom from unnecessary errors, these
big business organisations chose Contex for use
in their Accounting departments. What Contex
has done for all of these companies it can do
for you. Contex adds in whole numbers, £.s.d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Over 15,000
Contex machines are in operation in businesses
throughout Australia.
£23'io'-
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra.
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
POST THIS TO-DAY
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Centex.
NAME
ADDRESS CQ26.16
Missing Friend
WOULD FLORENCE MIRIAM Mc"-
OALLUM, formerly of Newport, but now
of parts unknown, or anyone knowing her
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
MESSRS. JONES AND KENNEDY, Soli-
citors, of 213 Nicholson Street, Footscray?
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1-
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
name is
fD c CdUiun’s
fen*
Scots UJhisty
the whisky is
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807.
MC 22/3.2.
ds
0 steps
in buying tyres
WHO MAKES THEM? Goodyear's
manufacturing experience specks for
itself, Goodyear—the world over—
has built many more tyres than any
other manufacturer. Only top quality
has kept Goodyear in first place,
year after year, for 39 years.
WHO SELLS THEM? Your Goodyear Dealer has
proved Goodyear's quality for himself. Wise motorists
soon learn which name to ask for. Look for the sign
of the Goodyear Diamond.
WHO USES THEM? More people, the world over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other tyre.
Let one satisfied user— Mß. LF. KUKARA, OF COMO, W.A.— TELL YOU:
"During eight years on my three taxis, I wore out many
"tyres, because our mileage was great and the roads
"mostly poor. Goodyears lasted exceptionally well . . .
"apart from better tread wear, were definitely more
"robust in the walls than other makes . . . 6-ply
"Goodyears, which I used, were retreaded always twice
"and, in several instances, three times without any
"tendency to blow out. I say:
"'Thanks for your help in puncture-
"less, blowout-less motoring .. •"
ś
ŝd
/\/eoct tune,
good/year
H32A
and 7.4 p.c. back to 1949. The
div. was lowered from 6 p.c. to
4 p.c. ,
During the year some city
properties were sold at a capital
gain of £152,761. The whole of
the proceeds, and more besides,
was spent on rehabilitation and
modernisation of various fac-
tories, lifting the book-value of
freeholds (up £31,838) and plant
(up £25,111) by £56,949:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Reserves .. .. 518,177 581,197
Overdraft, etc. ~ 1,003,129 923,771
Other creditors .. 234,894 376,569
Suspense account.. 24 1,097
Final divs. .. 93,000 74,000
Total ~ £3,249,224 £3,356,634
Freeholds, etc. .. 640,496 672,334
Plant, etc. .. 365,949 391,060
Stocks .. .. 1,437,847 1,461,902
Debtors ~ ~ 487,073 506,281
Cash, etc 26,974 33,212
Intangibles* ~ 290,885 291,845
Total . . £3,249,224 £3,356,634
* Mainly difference between book-value
and par value of inter-eo. shareholdings.
To help meet the additional out-
lay, carry an extra £24,055 of
stock, £19,208 more book-debts
and clip £79,358 off the over-
draft, etc., the amount coming
to sundry creditors was increased
by £141,675. In the valuation
of stocks, most vulnerable of the
assets, ample provision has been
made to safeguard trading for
the current term, the chairman
says.
At 11s. 3d. the f.-p. £1 ords.
return 7.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The 8 p.c. prefs. at
265. 6d. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £3 13s. 7d. prefs. and
255. sd. ords.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (Q.)
C'ERVICED by a 2200-ton-a-
- mill, the mine, at
Cracow (Q.), has never been a
really big producer, nor have
measured ore reserves ever run
more than a few years ahead of
mill capacity. Profits have fluc-
tuated mainly with variations in
the grade of ore as development
proceeded, and with the level of
costs. The price of the yellow
metal remains fixed by statute,
except in the so-called free
market, where the premium has
now narrowed to insignificant
proportions.
Here are operating results
since 1950:
Ore Gold, Silver, Div.
Crushed, Fine Fine Profit. £
Tons, Oz. Oz. £ (6d.)
’50..24,355 5,480 12,725 13,184 21,000
Loss.
’51.. 22,894 4,329 4,455 6,008 Nil
Profit. (6d.)
’52..20,486 9,274 11,014 64,911 21,000
(1/3)
’53..23,181 11,384 12,122 79,472 52,575
(2/-)
’54..25,859 13,292 9,659 84,967 84,200
For the better financial showing
and lift in divs. over the last few
years, shareholders can mainly
thank improvement in the grade,
which rose from s.odwt. in 1950
to 10.49dwt. in 1953, except in
1951, when operations resulted
in a loss.
Last term average grade was
10.28dwt., but a bigger crushing
and reduction of 3s. lOd. in
costs (91s. 2d. a ton) lifted the
profit by £5495, making it
£84,967. That was a shade over
2s. a share, and the distribution
was jacked-up from Is. 3d. to
2s. The wages-bill rose by only
6 p.c. as against 30.8 p.c. in the
previous term.
At June 30 last measured ore
reserves were conservatively put
at 69,150 tons, averaging
9.Bdwt. A “large tonnage” of
broken ore is now available, and
development work is to be
stepped-up during the current
term.
Finances are comfortable.
Stores figure at £37,397, cash,
book-debts, etc., total £84,111
and current liabilities £14,438.
There is £114,083 of capital
to feed in 842,000 3s. 4d. shares,
which the market prices around
16s. 6d. as against 15s. 9d. a
year ago.
Because treatment of more ore
and a bigger outturn of lead and
zinc concentrates failed to offset
the effects of a fall in metal
prices, Broken Hill South’s profit
for the 12 months to June 30 last
was £234,914 lower at £1,308,095,
equal to Bs. 2d. per ss. share.
The div., however, was lifted
from 6s. (120 p.c.) to 6s. 6d.
(130 p.c.). That was because
the outlook has brightened,
owing to the rise in metal prices
since the close of accounts. For
the year to June 30, 1954, average
London spot prices per ton for
lead and zinc were £592.5 (down
£59,5) and £574.9 (down £513.4)
respectively. On October 20 the
figures were lead £SIO7 2s. 6d.
and zinc £SB2. The price of the
f.-p. ss. shares, which had
dropped to 545. in the market in
January, 1954, recently fetched
695.
* ♦ *
Lancefield, N.L. (W.A.), might
soon enter the list of profitable
gold-producers on a small scale.
The north drive on the 200 ft.
level has disclosed a run of values
averaging 9.2dwt., and the lode
is said to be strong and well-
defined. Consulting - engineer
C. E. Blackett puts potential ore
reserves above the 300 ft. level at
168,000 tons, with a possible
250,000 tons, or more, down to
the 500 ft. level. Actual tonnage
and average grade, however,
have yet to be proved.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
With the social tempo slackening as
the fashionable world draws breath before
descending upon Melbourne for the Cup,
one has time to look round the city and
to realise that it is taking on a smarter,
snappier look with many new glossy shop-
fronts appearing in all the streets, and
fresh, bright paint bringing many of the
dingy buildings to life.
To be sure, all this renovation means
that there are an abnormal number of
hoardings across the pavements while the
work is being done, especially in the
George-street-Wynyard direction, and
traffic is slowed up proportionately; but
it’s like a transformation-scene when the
hoardings are at last removed to reveal
the shops in their new glory, so perhaps
it’s worth it.
The same trend is noticeable, too, in
the nearer, industrial suburbs, where tiny
dwellings have been renovated and
painted in light modern colors, cream with
blue doors, white with cocoa woodwork
and colorful flower-pots, for example, so
that one can see that parts which are now
slums could quite easily blossom into
something quite attractive.
Many of these older parts of Sydney
have been painted in watercolor by
Gladys Owen and are being shown in
David Jones’s small gallery at present.
Gladys Owen, who is Mrs. John Moore,
wife of the artist and well-known for her
social-welfare work in this city, said she
met with the greatest hospitality from
people all around while she was painting
these pictures. Those who lived in the
houses brought out tea and refreshments,
passers-by gathered round for encour-
agement, and Saturday-afternoon inebri-
ates even threw coins for encouragement
and financial assistance! If these paint-
ings were gathered into a book they
would make a delightful record of
“vanishing Sydney” not only in the slums,
but also of early-settled, outer districts
such as Ryde and Hunter’s Hill.
☆ ☆ ☆
There are interesting pictures and relics
of Sydney in the early days to be seen
also in the exhibition of ecclesiastical arts
at David Jones’s main gallery in aid of
the St. James Church Restoration Fund.
They include some of the church records,
banns of marriage, etc., from as early
as the 1820’s, and there is also the famous
painting of Governor Macquarie which
has been lent by the Windsor Council.
The group of theatrical portraits—
Maggie Moore, George Rignold, etc. —
may at first seem rather incongruous in
such an exhibition, but St. James has
always had many members of the theatri-
cal profession in its congregation, just as
it is also the church of lawyers.
Archbishop Mowll wore his synodical
robes to the opening of the exhibition,
purple cassock and red gown, as he had
to go straight on to Synod, so that
he looked very much in place and gave
the exhibition quite the right atmosphere.
St. James is appealing for £lO,OOO to
restore the fabric of the famous building,
and his Grace was most amusing when
he said he had suggested to Canon
Davidson that he should ask each
member of the Queen’s Club opposite to
donate a diamond to the fund. “Canon
Davidson hasn’t done that,” said his
Grace, “and I don’t know that I’d have
the courage myself if I met the members
face to face, but I don’t mind throwing
out the challenge from a public plat-
form.” Well, perhaps some of the mem-
bers of the club might be willing to take
up the challenge.
☆ ☆ ☆
Highlights of the annual meeting of
the Girl Guides’ Association were the
presentation to Miss Eleanor Manning of
the Silver Fish, the highest award in guid-
ing, and Mrs. B. V. Stacy’s description of
her experiences while representing Aus-
tralia at the Commissioners’ Conference
in England and the World Convention
in Holland. Among the amusing stories
she told was one about the gifts given to
the delegates by every troupe they visited
in Holland. One group gave quaint
bread-rolls in the shape of animals affixed
to sticks and decorated with raisins,
sweets and flowers —a very charming gift
indeed. The only flaw was that the
brownies had to hold the bread for quite
a long time, and when Mrs. Stacy got hers
both its ears had been eaten off, while
all the delegates found that their bread-
animals had had some part of their
anatomy devoured by the hungry little
waiting brownies.
Mrs. Stacy’s remark that bread and
hundreds-and-thousands was served for
breakfast in Holland reminds one of the
little girl who asked her father at a party
recently which were the hundreds and
which were the thousands.
An Australian woman who has won
fame in the business-world abroad is
Kay Murphy, who is life-director and
general manager of the Linguaphone
Institute, London, a world-wide organisa-
tion that teaches languages by the use of
gramophone-records. Miss Murphy
comes from Dapto (N.S.W.) and she
acquired a love of languages from her
parents; her mother taught her French
and her father, a headmaster, gave her
a love of Latin. Later, at Sydney Uni-
versity, she furthered her French studies
as a student of Professor Waterhouse.
For a while she taught French to Sydney
High School pupils, then went to the
U.S., where she was associated with the
New York publishing-house of McGraw-
Hill.
Then London called, and Miss
Murphy applied by letter for a position
with the Lingua-phone Institute, which
had just been founded. Jacques Roston,
the founder, thought the applicant was a
man and was considerably surprised
when the K. M. Murphy he had engaged
turned out to be a young woman. How-
ever, to his lasting credit he dick not dis-
miss her, and Miss Murphy proved her
worth by eventually becoming head of the
institute when Jacques Roston died.
One of Miss Murphy’s successes was to
persuade G. B. Shaw to record his voice,
and while the records were being made
G.B.S. remarked that “a little lady five
feet high, all the way from Australia, has
succeeded where other gramophone com-
panies had failed.” Photo by Angus
McBean (London).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Dante Alighieri Society has been
very active of late, the third of its recent
functions being a reception in honor of
Dr. Daneo, Italian Minister, and Madame
Daneo, who returned not long ago from
a trip abroad. The reception, which was
held at the Pickwick, was attended by
about 150 people, including the Italian
Consul-General, Signor Stefenelli, and
Signora Stefenelli, the Principe del Drago,
Madame Ferrari Passmore, Dr. and
Mrs. E. Bentivoglio, Mr. and Mrs. V. J.
Flynn, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses,
Dr. and Mrs. A. Baccarini, Signora
Fiaschi, Mr. and Mrs. A. Despas, Dr.
and Mrs. Redlar, Miss E. Spencer Nolan
and Miss Margharita Hoffman. Captain
F. Quaglia, with Mrs. Quaglia, received
the guests.
it it it
Opening tomorrow at Anthony Hor-
dern’s Art Gallery is an exhibition of
paintings by Elizabeth Durack and of
ceramic art by Elaine Keyes. Miss
Durack is a member of the well-known
pastoral family in West Australia and
is co-author with her sister Mary of many
books on aboriginal folk-lore. Mrs.
Keyes is the wife of Mr. A. F. Keyes,
headmaster of Scotch College, W.A.
☆ ☆ ☆
This is the season of the annual meet-
ing and the balance-sheet, and so far these
have been very satisfactory. The Girl
Guides had a surplus and so did the Red
Cross Society, The honorary treasurer
of Red Cross, Mr. C. R, Kelynack, said
that the surplus of £l2OO looked a lot,
but it really meant that 19s. 6d. out of
every £1 received by the society had been
spent, which, according to Mr. Micawber,
is just right.
MELBOURNE
Victorians are rejoicing that the Queen
has extended for another three years the
term of office of Sir Dallas Brooks as
Governor. During the years he and Lady
Brooks have been in residence at Govern-
ment House they have endeared them-
selves to everybody. Sir Dallas, a dis-
tinguished figure whether in civilian
clothes or uniform, has a kindly humor
and an ability to put people completely
at their ease, and he is always very much
at home with young people. Lady
Brooks has a special place in our hearts.
Petite and dainty, she has an appealing
charm and is very much in demand by
organisations, especially those connected
with the welfare of children. This Letter’s
warmest congratulations to a very
gracious, considerate and popular pair.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the absence of Sir Dallas Brooks
the Lieut-Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring, who was accompanied by Lady
Herring, officially opened the new head-
quarters of the Royal Empire Society in
Queen’s-road. The new building has a
ballroom, lounge, dining-room and
library, as well as the offices of the society.
Four-hundred guests attended, including
fellows of the Royal Empire Society, and
representatives of the Victoria League,
Overseas League, Society of St. George,
Caledonian and Cambrian Societies,
Empire Day Movement and Empire
Youth Movement.
Mrs. Humbert Pugliese, wife of a well-
known Sydney businessman, is no
stranger to Melbourne, where she has
a very wide circle of friends. She is also
a successful career-woman, whose person-
ality is expressed in her very beautiful
home at Vaucluse. Although interior-
decorating is not her career, Mrs. Pugliese
has a great flair for combining the best
in antiques and modern furnishings with
subtle colors. She has travelled the world
several times, visiting most of the great
centres of art. Her husband shares her
love of hospitality. Photo by Dorothy
Welding.
Professor Lucyle Hook, of Barnard
College, Columbia University, gave 200
members of the Australian-American
Association at Giro’s an excellent address
on progress in the arts in the U.S. Mrs.
W. W. Killough and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell —the latter was chairman of the
meeting—received the guests. Those
who attended the address included Mrs.
Walker Milner (wife of the U.S. Army
Attache), Mrs. R. van Gytveld (president
of the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Children's Hospital), Mrs. A. Evans,
Mrs. T. Spensley and Mrs. L. Mitchell.
A target of £2OOO has been set for the
A.-A. for the end of next year, and money
raised will go to the fund for new club-
rooms. The first function will be a
Christmas cocktail-party at the Dorchester
on December 10. Mrs. W. W. Killough
has been elected chairman of the club-
rooms-committee and Mrs. L. Reichstein
chairman of the ways-and-means com-
mittee to help raise the funds.
Danise Naomi, third daughter of Mrs.
Maie Hoban, the director of the Pilgrim
Theatre, and the late Mr. D. J. Hoban,
was married at Xavier Chapel to Noel
John, eldest son of Dr. and Mrs. James
Rowan, of Kew. The bride’s ballerina
frock of white Swiss - embroidered
organza had a very full skirt and was
worn with a fingertip-length tulle veil
held with a little cap of matching organza.
She carried a trail of gardenias and lily-
of-the-valley. Mrs. Alan Hawkesford,
the bride’s sister, was matron-of-honor
and wore an almond-pink organza bal-
lerina frock and matching cap and
carried pink roses. The ’groom’s brother
lan was best man. Reception was at
Menzies’ Hotel.
☆ ☆ ☆
During the curtain-speeches at the close
of the first night of “South Pacific” was
the announcement by Kenneth Werner,
leading-man, of the engagement of two
members of the cast: Janette Liddell,
who plays Liat, and Darryl Stewart, who
is Lt. Joseph Cabe, U.S.M.C. It was a
very happy night, the audience greatly
appreciating the musical’s return. Noted
in the audience were Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Tait, she wearing a black gown with the
full skirt braided in gold to form a spider-
web ; Mr f and Mrs. Given Parsons ; Mrs.
E. Byron Moore, her daughter Marjorie
and son and daughter-in-law Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon Byron Moore; Mrs. F.
Brockhoff, Mrs. D. Ross, Sir George and
Lady Wales, Mr. and Mrs. A. T.
Smithers ; Mrs. Thorold Gunnersen and
her daughter Margaret; Mr. and Mrs.
Russell Henry, Mrs. Tim Boydell, Mrs.
H. Dawson and Mrs. J. Davies.
☆ ☆ ☆
To farewell Major James Clark, Asst.
U.S. Military Attache, and Mrs. Clark,
who shortly return to the U.S., Mr. and
Mrs, G. C. Molyneux entertained over
50 guests at a buffet dinner-party in their
Balwyn hofne. The hostess wore a sleeve-
less sheath-frock of gunmetal-grey silk-
tweed. The guest-of-honor chose a
dinner-frock of navy satin with the cuffs
of the bracelet-length sleeves studded
with rhinestones. Mixed flowers were
beautifully arranged in the reception-
rooms and on the dining-room table was
a model of a helicopter. Among the
guests were U.S. Consul Givon Parsons
and his wife, who highlighted her black
frock with a scarlet stole ; Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Cudlipp, she wearing a black pat-
terned royal-blue tie-silk cocktail-suit;
wife of the U.S. Army Air Force Attache,
Mrs. John Sullivan, who teamed a white
organdie blouse and black taffeta skirt;
Lieut. R. Brumsted, Asst. U.S. Attache,
and Mrs. Brumsted, the latter wearing a
teal-blue knitted blouse with a beige
skirt.
☆ ☆ it
Barbara de Crespigny, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Tunbridge of Mel-
bourne, chose a full-skirted slightly-
trained gown of white nylon-marquisette
for her marriage at St. John’s, Toorak, to
William Richard, younger son of Dr. and
Mrs. J. W. Grice, Camberwell. Barbara,
who carried a white prayer-book and
four long-stemmed white tulips, had a
tiny crown of guipure lace to hold her
fingertip-length tulle veil. Brenda Jack-
son and Margot Perry, the bridesmaids,
wore bouffant tulle frocks of grey oyer
palest pink, pink cummerbunds and tiny
caps made of grey and pink feathers.
They carried bouquets of lilac. The
bride’s brother, Dr. Richard Tunbridge,
was best man and William Sidebottom
groomsman. Reception was held at the
Toorak home of the bride’s uncle and
aunt, Mr. and Mrs. John Champion de
Crespigny.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the sun shone, cold winds
marred the dressing for the Moonee
Valley Cup . meeting. Gay hats and
colored shoes and handbags supplied
color for otherwise sombre ensembles,
and there were many tiny white hats to
highlight black suits or frocks. The
Governor and Lady Brooks lunched with
the committee, Lady Brooks wearing a
blue straw platter-hat trimmed with a
pink rose, and a suit of smoky-blue wool
was worn under a mink coat. Wife of
the chairman of the M.V.R.C., Lady
Burston, pinned two small mauve orchids
in the lapel of her black suit; her leaf-
green beret was of fine straw and finished
with a veil. Mrs. A. J. Moir, wife of the
vice-chairman, wore a suit of sea-green
tweed with a mink stole, and her match-
ing pillbox hat of velvet had a ruched
edge. The Premier’s wife, Mrs. John
Cain, who, with the Lady Mayoress and
Mrs. Norman Robinson, was a luncheon-
guest, chose a suit in brown-and-green-
shot worsted ; her hat was in a darker
shade of brown.


Tenders
Re Estate GEORGE HERBERT SCOWN
Deceased.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of
Gold Mining Lease No. 181, known as
“Reform,” on Wenlock Goldfield, Cape
York Peninsula, together with all Im-
provements thereon. Plant and Equipment.
Further particulars concerning the Lease
will be supplied to intending Tenderers,
but no warranty or representation is made
as to the nature or possibility of the re-
covery or profit from the Lease, and
Tenders must be submitted on the sole
investigation of the intending Tenderer.
Tenders close at the Office of the under-
signed at twelve noon on Wednesday, the
Eighth day of December, 1954, and should
be sealed and endorsed “Tender Estate
George Herbert Scown deceased,”
V. J. ZONCA,
Local Deputy Public Curator, Cairns.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
SUNDRY SHOWS
Music
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
in Melbourne
Immediately after his arrival
in Melbourne, Eugene Goossens
gave it out as his considered
opinion that both the Sydney
and Melbourne symphony
orchestras were in the world-
class. Melbourne audiences have
been thinking along those lines
for a long time about their own
pet, and at the opening concert
at the Melbourne Town Hall
they had an opportunity of
coming to a similar or contrary
conclusion about the crowd from
Sydney. Judging by the applause
at the end of the Fifth Symphony
of Tschaikowsky, which con-
cluded the programme, they were
unanimously of the same opinion
as Mr. Goossens.
The programme was com-
pletely classical in cut, but was
none the worse on that account.
The “Leonora” Overture, No. 3
in C Major, was so familiar that
most of the musiclovers
assembled could probably have
hummed it; but there was no
humming during the superb per-
formance—in fact, even the
chairs at the back of the hall
forgot to creak and not a sound
was heard from them for the
remainder of the evening.
Richard Strauss’s tone-poem,
“Don Juan,” followed. Strauss
once said that unlike Mozart, he
had been denied the gift of
melody and that he had only one
melody in his head. He must
have made up for it in some way
or the Sydney organisation did
it for him by making the piece
sound like singing, particularly
when the oboe purred “Love’s
bliss and happiness without end,”
and then repeated its love-song.
The English pianist, Natasha
Litvin, was not inspiring in the
Ravel Concerto in G Major until
her technically efficient fingers
began to feel the mood of the
adagio with its slow mounting
melody and its delicate decora-
tions, to which she kept time
with her shoulders.
The Tschaikowsky symphony
was the most delightful experi-
ence of a well-planned evening.
Mr. Goossens knew what he
wanted, the orchestra knew what
he wanted and the audience got
what it wanted.
*l* ♦> *!♦
John Farnsworth Hall
Before leaving for Perth to
exchange jobs with Westralian
conductor Rudolph Pekarek,
John Farnsworth Hall gave two
farewell concerts with the
Queensland Sym phony
Orchestra. These showed some-
thing of his flair for building
interesting programmes, and his
ability to shape a long orchestral
work so that interest is main-
tained to the end.
The “Consecration of the
House” Overture opened an
all-Beethoven subscription bill,
the solemn procession of brass
and woodwinds in the first pages
giving way to an exhilarating
performance of the big fugue,
taken very fast but kept under
control all the way. The
“Pastoral Symphony” had a
refreshing peacefulness about it
that suited the music admirably.
Never slow or dreamy, it was
serene without being gawkily
rustic in spite of a few rough
solo patches.
A final youth programme had
a first performance of Florent
Schmitt’s “Tragedy of Salome,”
a colorful but not very tuneful
piece of musical story-telling
that added little to the lurid
melodrama on the same theme
by Richard Strauss. An early
Mozart Symphony had moments
of charm and melody, and
Rossini’s “Thieving Magpie”
Overture provided a full-blooded
curtain-raiser to the programme.
Bela Siki was soloist at both
concerts. In the Beethoven
Third Concerto his playing was
thoughtful and cigar even in the
heaviest passages. Not having
played the same concertos all
round the world for years on
end, he had none of the flippant
dash that older virtuosos de-
velop. But the same thoughtful
approach was at times madden-
ing in the Tschaikowsky First.
This work can take a battering
from flying fingers since many
of the bits coming in between
the big tunes aren’t really pro-
found or interesting anyway.
D. J. M.
* * ❖
A New Pianist
Clara Harrison a young
Ukrainian pianist, appeared at a
Sydney Cammeray Music Group
concert the other evening, lead-
ing from the piano a trio in works
by Haydn and Dvorak. Weak-
ness of string-tone (Aline
Horsbrough, violin, Janice
Kidson, cello) marred the overall
effect.
The pianist showed her true
quality in a reading of Busoni’s
transcription of the unaccom-
panied Bach Chaconne which
had a remarkably - sustained
virility, great chordal strength
and splendid climax-building.
She added to the good impression
by reeling off a Czerny toccata
with dazzling nimbleness and
accuracy. Another toccata, the
Khachaturian, gave further proof
of her extraordinary technical
mastery.
Gladys Mawson used her
dramatic soprano to excellent
effect in several operatic arias.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases
“Act of Love” (Century):
Irony and compassion run to-
gether in this slow but percep-
tive study of a frustrated love
between a G.I. and a Parisian
girl, both victims of circum-
stances and of the crassness of
civil and military officialdom in
Paris immediately after the
liberation. A French actress,
Dany Robin, overplays her dumb
bewilderment, but Kirk Douglas
brings the right degree of
poignancy to his despair and
anger.
“The Miami Story” (Capitol):
Hollywood’s great standby, the
crime-tsar with his pockets full
of malleable politicians, is
trotted out once again in this
variation of the crime-doesn’t-
pay theme. A tough ex-gangster
"I never paint in the nude.”
is cozened from his respecta-
bility by a group of indignant
citizens and given carte blanche
to smash a big-shot gambler.
The proceedings are enlivened by
the strong-arm methods demon-
strated by Barry Sullivan as the
co-opted reformer.
“The Moonlighter”: Begins as
a good character-study of a man
embittered against his fellows
by an unjust lynching, but
degenerates to a second-class
western. With Fred Mac Murray
and Barbara Stanwyck.
Stage
“White Cargo”
“White Cargo,” the tropical
melodrama which Leon Gordon
accused himself of writing, was
off-loaded at Melbourne Comedy
by a corps of actors who seemed
to share Mr. Gordon’s notion
that the outskirts of the British
Empire are, or were, exclusively
developed by a pack of white
no-hopers and self - pitying
failures who never washed and
talked of nothing but the
weather, and whose boredom
was occasionally relieved by the
advent of a seductive native lady
of easy virtue, whom the latest
new arrival was bound to want
to marry.
There is some slight measure
pf truth in this proposition, but
what about Raffles, Brooke,
Colonel Light and Morrison of
China, not to mention others?
Mr. Gordon’s insistence that his
is the whole truth makes for as
tedious an evening as any on the
African West Coast, and Mr,
Rupert Maynard’s company did
their utmost to increase the feel-
ing of tedium with the extreme
self-consciousness of their acting
and the synthetic filthiness of
their clothing—it would have
been better if they had rolled in
the gutter outside the theatre,
instead of dabbing the dirt on
with a paintbrush.
The only actor who lifted the
performance out of the
amateurish class was Hector
Ross as Weston, the Man who
Stays, the part which Leon
Gordon made famous. Mr. Ross
acted it better than Mr. Gordon,
and his acid contempt for the
pathetic Langford for wanting to
marry Tondeleyo would have
curdled the milk in a large dairy.
As Langford, James Marsh
failed to carry much conviction.
It was as difficult to believe in
the sincerity of his Presbyterian
principles as in the carefree
voluptuousness of Tondeleyo.
June Sylvaine, as that Lure
Eternal, looked less as if she had
eome out of a West African
brothel than a finishing-school
for fashion-models.
Desmond Rolfe as the parson
who refuses to marry a white
man to a black girl seemed so
ashamed of his role that he could
scarcely speak his lines without
blushing. Anthony Bazell, as the
doctor who is unsuccessfully
endeavoring to drown in neat
whisky the memory of an unsuc-
cessful operation, was somewhat
better, but he was only plagiaris-
ing the obvious, like the rest of
Mr. Gordon’s stereotypes.
* * ♦
Borovanskys
Kathleen Gorham continues to
be a lovely little bundle of
pleasant surprises with the
Borovansky Ballet at Sydney
Empire. One would hardly have
thought of her matching her
rather bold style to Giselle, parti-
cularly after her “Swan Lake,”
but she does it, and quite beauti-
fully, too. Without getting down
to the traditional pretty peasant
innocence, she does bring to life
a young girl very much aware
of herself and trying to hide her
big-eyed eagerness and excite-
ment behind a mask of decorum ;
and there was something patheti-
cally small and appealing about
her vacant stare and the dying
droop of her dancing in the “mad
scene.”
In the days when applause for
a particular bit of virtuosity
stopped the show, Miss Gorham
would probably have halted the
proceedings with her lovely
movement across the stage on
one point.
Paul Grinwis’s dancing as
Count Albrecht matched Miss
Gorham’s; Eve King, as Queen
of the Wilis, had a couple of
brief and airy moments, without
ever getting round to the regal
evil of the business ; and Joan
Osborne’s story-telling hands
gave a complete little ballet of
their own.
“Pineapple Poll,” an arrange-
ment of Gilbert’s “The Bum-
boat Woman” and some of
Sullivan’s music, is the other
item of the evening. In spite of
a witty and polished performance
from Raoul Celada, it is John
Auld’s ballet —as Jasper, the Pot
Boy at the local his nimble
drollery has shades of Massine
about it.
Celada’s Captain Belaye and
Peggy Sager’s Poll are more
blatantly comic; Celada cuts
quite a figure, but the greenery-
yallery costume and red wig
worn by Peggy Sager are a bit
too much of a load, even for
her clever dancing.
Palladium
A wandering Bulletin man
reports having seen Miss Gipsy
Rose Lee between plane-stops at
Darwin, where, in that town’s
pleasant tropic warmth, she
looked as though she would have
gladly repeated the act she put
on, or took off, at Sydney
Palladium a while ago.
In the meantime, the tempera-
ture at the Palladium is being
maintained by the humor of
Freddie Bamberger who keeps
the air warm and pale-blue and
spangles it with innuendo about
one thing and another. A sur-
prising tum-up on the same pro-
gramme is pianist Isador Good-
man lending a touch of brilliance
to the evening with his “Variety
at the Keyboard.”
Jeanine Arnould in “Harlem
Hotspot” and Marie Bryant in
“Hotter than Harlem” more or
less set the key for the evening’s
song-and-wriggle, and are sup-
ported by the Glorious Voice of
Richard Gray Together With the
Nudie Cuties.
In the matter of physical dex-
terity Lloyd Nairn would seem
to have a fair claim to his title
of Australia’s Juggling Jenius,
while the Ricardos, in Jet-
propelled Acrobatics, and the
Mischells, in Adagio Artistry in
the Modern Style, also give some
substantiation to those descrip-
tions.
* * *
“The Chocolate Soldier”
Nostalgic memories are being
aroused at Melbourne Princess
by a revival of “The Chocolate
Soldier,” the adaptation to Oskar
Straus’s succulent music of
George Bernard Shaw’s “Arms
and the Man,” which Gladys
Moncrieff made temporarily
famous.
The all-Australian company,
which is performing this feat
with considerable agility, has
some excellent voices in it and
some very bad ones. The best
belongs to Nance Grant, as the
beauteous Nadina who hides
Lieutenant Bumerli from the
Bulgarian soldiers in her bed-
room and then falls in love with
his Shavian wit and intelligence.
Miss Grant not only warbles
Straus’s sentimental ditties
sweetly, but could act the part
without the music in a straight
(Continued on page 24)


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
RHODA’S hands stayed in
her lap and her head
hung low. She was pro-
foundly shocked. She
needed all her fortitude not to
show it. She had been brought
up to think that smart people
who took advantage of other
people’s financial distress to gain
possession of their property, par-
ticularly if it was land, were
rogues and scoundrels of the
most despicable type.
Breyley got up and went
round his desk to her. He took
her hands in his.
“I realise it would take a bit
of resolution on your part,” he
said. “You Wouldn’t be very
popular with your family for a
while.”
“I couldn’t think of it.”
Rhoda was so agitated she could
hardly control her voice. “I
couldn’t think of it. It would
be wicked. I can’t understand
how you could suggest such a
thing to me. All I’ve ever
wanted was only the dividends
I’m entitled to. Couldn’t you
think of some way of just
getting them?”
“As I said before,” Breyley
looked down on her, disap-
pointed and rather resentful, “he
isn’t in a position to pay the
arrears of dividends, and no
bank would help him out when
they know what he’s done.”
“Oh, it’s terrible!” Rhoda
took a handkerchief out of her
handbag and dabbed at her eyes.
“Things could get a lot worse,”
Breyley assured her with astute
conviction. “If the taxation
people got on to him they might
screw so hard that the company
would be bankrupted. Then
none of you would have any-
thing. You’d better think over
my proposal before you reject
it.”
From some unsleeping corner
of her mind Rhoda received an
acute warning not to act impul-
sively.
“I’ll think it over and let you
know as soon as I can,” she said,
feeling a desperate need to get
away on her own.
Breyley studied her; a
warmer, less - calculating ap-
proach seemed desirable.
“You know,” he said, with his
arm round her shoulder, “I’m
doing this mainly for your sake.
It hurts me to know that you’ve
been done out of your rights.
I want to see justice done,”
He looked straight into her
eyes, as he had been advised by
his favorite textbook, How to
Win Friends and Influence
People. It was a mistake, be-
cause Rhoda knew very well
what honest people’s eyes looked
like. Her mother had fre-
quently warned her about
“snakes in the grass” whose eyes
betrayed them, and for the first
time she really didn’t like the
look in Breyley’s hard grey ones.
It gave her a profound shock,
which threw her mind right back
on to thoughts of her own
security and her family’s.
“I want the books,” she said
urgently. “You forgot to give
me the books.”
Breyley’s eyes hardened into
an expression Rhoda liked still
less ; but he spoke reassuringly.
“Not quite finished with them
yet, my dear. Every time I look
at them I find something more
that needs investigating. And
you know I’m doing it in my
spare time, so that you don’t
need to pay for it —that’s why
it’s taking so long. You
wouldn’t want me to do it here
and charge you fifty pounds,
would you? No, I thought not.
But next time you’re in town
you can have them.”
“No, Gregory, I can’t wait,”
Rhoda said doggedly. “You’ve
found out quite enough already.
I must get them back before
Father finds out. Otherwise I
might haye to run away from
home.”
Breyley watched her with the
calm of calculation.
“You’ll be safe until the
weekend,” he said heartily, but
with a most obdurate undertone.
Rhoda considered the doubt-
ful effectiveness of making a
scene in this glass-walled cell;
all her instincts warned her
against making an exhibition
which could not fail to come
to the notice of the disdainful
female clerical staff. Moreover,
because Breyley’s desk was
stacked with other people’s
account-books in piles a foot
high, it seemed impossible that
she could be in danger because
of the absence of anything so
commonplace; quite inconceiv-
able that she could make Breyley
sympathetic to her anxiety.
Someone knocked on the
door, to be instantly invited by
Breyley to “Come in.” It was
Mr. Folio, Gregory’s boss, who
looked at Rhoda so meaningly
that she was immediately certain
that he knew she had been wast-
ing his employee’s time with
non-remunerative conversation
and was likely to send her a bill
for fifty pounds if she didn’t
get out instantly.
She left without her books.
CHAPTER XIII
T» HODA knew that she would
find her mother seated com-
fortably in the car under the
shade of a wide-spreading pep-
perina-tree.
This particular tree, the
shadiest in the town, was known
as Kraftmann’s Tree, and had
quite a history. The earlier Civic
Fathers of Jindulla, recognising
that their town was afflicted
with long, hot summers, had
gone to considerable trouble in
planting rows of trees in the
streets to provide shade for man
and horse, and an appearance of
coolness in the town.
But a new generation of aider-
men had arisen who regarded
streets as traffic-arteries, not as
places to linger and gossip. They
tore the trees out of the main
streets to make room for cars
to move, then cluttered them up
twice as badly by giving permits
for petrol-bowsers to their
friends; in the lesser streets,
prevented from actual murder
by the popular outcry, the alder-
men had lopped the trees so
severely that only the mutilated
trunks remained.
All except one tree, the tree
under which Kraftmann had
parked his car ever since he’d
had one, in the distant days of
high-backed tourers, and had
hitched his horses before that.
Kraftmann had come upon
the workmen as they were about
to perform their gentle art on
his tree, not with pruning-shears
but with axe and saw. He flew
into a great rage about it. He
pulled the ladder from under
one man, threatened another
with his own axe and sent the
whole gang scurrying to the
municipal office to make claims
for their injuries.
Kraftmann had immediately
interviewed all the aldermen
with whom he did business ; men
who regarded him as a valuable
client because his enterprises
and progressive farming in-
volved the spending of large
sums of money, and made them
promise that his tree would never
be touched. And it never had;
apart from a little gentle and
almost apologetic snipping from
Kraftmann himself when a
branch began to droop too low
to allow his car to pass under it.
“Oh, you poor child, you look
dreadful! Whatever has hap-
pened to you? You must have
a cup of tea immediately; I’ve
got it already ordered at that
nice place just across the main
street. I didn’t change my gloves
after all. They didn’t have any
that matched better.
“Did you want biscuits or
sandwiches? I ordered one of
each. I felt like biscuits all the
time, but since I’ve been sitting
in the car thinking about it, I
believe I’d prefer the sand-
wiches. But you have whichever
you like. You need to have your
strength built up.”
In the cafe they didn’t say a
word about Rhoda’s interview.
Walls have ears, Mrs. Kraft-
mann was in the habit of saying,
and, as far as country-town
cafes were concerned, she could
easily have been right, because
often they were divided from
the next place of business by no
more than a temporary struc-
ture of plywood. But in the car
Rhoda told her frankly what had
happened.
“You mustn’t do it, child,”
her mother said. “You should
have told him straight away that
you couldn’t do it.”
“I know it’s an awful thing to
do. But if I don’t do it he’ll
leave me. He didn’t say it, but I
could feel it and I could see it in
his face.”
Rhoda was so agitated that
she nearly lost control of the
car.
“Careful, girl; mind what
you’re doing! ” Mrs. Kraftmann
reprimanded her severely, be-
cause she’d had a bad fright;
then she went on in her sympa-
thetic and considerate voice: “I
know it would be a very sad
thing for you to lose your man ;
but you couldn’t do that just to
hold him. You wouldn’t like all
the relations and friends you
have to despise you. And I feel
sure that you wouldn’t be happy.
The way he’s turning out any-
one can see that the only thing
he thinks of is money; and that
doesn’t make for happiness in
the long run.”
She stopped for a while and
looked thoughtfully through the
windscreen,
“God knows,” she went on,
“your father was bad enough
that way, and see what trouble
his money-madness has brought
on us. Though I must admit
that before this awful business I
enjoyed having plenty of money
and being able to afford nice
clothes and good new cars.”
“He was so nice at first,”
Rhoda lamented. “I never
believed he’d want me to do a
thing like this.” /
“You must make up your
mind you won’t do it. Why,
you’d never be able to live it
down. Think of all your rela-
tions spread all over New South
Wales and Victoria and South
Australia, and even a few in
Queensland.”
Rhoda thought about them,
and it was rather appalling. In
the hundred and twenty years
that her father’s and her mother’s
families had been in Australia
both had been most prolific.
Families of ten and a dozen had
not been uncommon, and even
in the present enlightened
generation the families con-
tinued to be comparatively large,
because their church believed in
a literal and personal applica-
tion of the post-creational injunc-
tion “be fruitful and multiply.”
Several times the Kraftmanns
had taken motor trips through
the districts where their rela-
tions lived, and Rhoda had been
discomfited to see what she
had thought to be her individual
features stamped in a careless
and indiscriminate manner on
hordes of faces. Nearly all the
good, old, honest, robust, Ger-
man-Australian farmer types.
Kind and sympathetic people,
but with an inflexible code of
behavior; and a very self-
righteous way of condemning
and despising anyone out-of-
hand, without taking the trouble
to consider special circum-
stances.
“Do you know what Cousin
Rhoda from Jindulla in New
South Wales has done?” —she
could see them circulating it in
spiteful whispers; they had
thought her “stuck up” because
she had better clothes and a
much better car. “She married
an outsider who was a crook,
and he cheated Uncle Alfred and
all the family out of their
property.”
“I am beginning to see,” said
Mrs. Kraftmann, with her air of
having prayed over it most
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments : —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. —Town accountant;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
{“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Stefanik. —A New Australian
dealer in “Old Masters,” has
sued Alec for paintings
destroyed in a car-collision.
Kraftmann has locked Alec and
Stefanik in the silo to settle the
matter, and they have agreed that
Stefanik should have free lodg-
ings on the property and
materials supplied until he had
painted some more “Old
Masters.”
Breyley has prevailed upon
Rhoda, who thinks he wants to
marry her, to bring the account-
books of her father’s family-
company to his lodgings. Brey-
ley then tells Kraftmann that he
has been withholding the divi-
dends of the rest of the family,
and threatens him with disclo-
sure. Kraftmann for a second
time orders Breyley out of the
house. Rhoda visits Breyley in
his office to. ask for the return of
her father’s account-books.


earnestly, “the hand of God in
this. He is giving you an oppor-
tunity of testing Gregory that
not every girl gets. All you need
to do now is to say, ‘No, I won’t
join in your wicked plan.’ If he
leaves you for that it will prove
that he is unworthy of you.
“Oh, I know it would be
terribly hard for you to lose
him.” (When you’re not so
young any more and he seemed
such a good chance, she added
parenthetically to herself, know-
ing Rhoda would understand.)
“On the other hand, if he loves
you as much as he should he will
drop his horrible schemes and
you will have the satisfaction of
knowing that you have made a
better man of him.”
Rhoda merely stared tensely
and unhappily through the wind-
screen.
“Don’t give up hope, my
dear,” her mother said, with an
unquenchable optimism in her
voice now that she had enlisted
God on their side. “If you’d
known the wild plans your father
had for squeezing more money
out of mine before and after
we were married you wouldn’t
be so worried. Young men are
always a bit desperate, because
they think they can’t keep a girl
in the manner to which she has
been accustomed. But if you
tell Gregory that you don’t mind
a little hardship you’ll see what
a difference it will make.”
Rhoda turned, astonished, to
see if her mother really believed
that such a desirable outcome
were possible and almost collided
with a tree. Her mother had to
speak to her. sharply and tap
her on the arm in symbolical
punishment, but Rhoda was too
absorbed in her problem to
notice.
“He wouldn’t give me the
books back, either,” she said.
“He had some excuse for want-
ing to keep them longer. Until
the weekend, he said.”
Mrs. Kraftmann was per-
turbed.
“It looks blacker than ever,”
she said, losing most of the
encouragement from her voice.
“Now I have a feeling that he
doesn’t want to give them back,
ever. He has found something in
them that gives him a terrible
power over your father. That
just shows what disobedience in
a daughter can lead to.” Then
in a quicker, alarmed tone,
“Now, watch where you’re
driving, girl,”
Rhoda wrenched the car back
on to the centre of the road ; she
had been shaken by an illumina-
tion of the warning which had
come to her from the back of
her mind while she was in Brey-
ley’s office. She spoke with
acutest anxiety:
“I know it would be a terrible
thing to do what Gregory wants
me to do about the company.
But we know he’s been writing
to Viki. What if he got her to
join in with him and take con-
trol?”
“God,” Mrs. Kraftmann said
in her most fervent voice,
“would not let that happen.”
“Well, why not? Gregory
told me that he and I could get
control, so, if I refuse, why
shouldn’t he and Viki?”
“It’s too terrible to think
about,” said Mrs. Kraftmann,
thoughtlessly revealing what she
had always considered to be a
well-kept secret; that she liked
her elder daughter less than the
younger.
“I put Rhoda to bed. She
wasn’t at all well,” Mrs. Kraft-
mann said to her men, who now
included Stefanik.
They didn’t usually see much
of sJtefanik during the day, be-
cause he was a prodigious
worker ; but in the evening he
was socially inclined. He liked
to linger over the meal, to drink
beer and talk, “the way they did
in Vienna,” as he said.
Often he brought more-or-less
completed pictures to show
them. Mrs. Kraftmann saw
nothing unethical about his
methods. She, who had copied
stags at bay, and cots in the
glen, as a matter of course.
thought him not only unneces-
sarily conscientious but astonish-
ingly clever for the way he took
the head of 6ne person, the body
of another, the dress of a fourth,
the hands and limbs of yet
another to combine them into
a homogeneous figure.
Stefanik used books of re-
productions of Old Masters for
his inspiration. Not the great
names like Rubens and Franz
Hals, because they would involve
unnecessary risks; but those
just prominent enough for his
customers to claim that they
“rang a bell”; names just
famous enough to be included
in most encyclopaedias, certainly
included in the encyclopaedia
which Stefanik carried about
with him in case his customers
had none, or only a deficient
one.
Mrs. Kraftmann was as fond
of Stefanik as she could be of
anyone not avowedly religious.
Like a great many women who
are obliged to spend their lives
among robust, out-doors men,
she was impressed by refinement
and good manners ; she also had
a profound, if rather uncompre-
hending, respect for the culture
which Stefanik represented.
She was an enthusiastic mem-
ber of the Jindulla Arts Council,
and tried hard to persuade hiip
to hold an exhibition of his
paintings in their town under its
austere auspices. She brought
this subject up again that night,
thinking it a safe one in such a
delicate situation. But Kraft-
mann did not allow her to pur-
sue it for long.
“We’ve got important things
to talk about,” he said.
He was still happily ignorant
of the fact that Breyley had his
account-books, and now was the
only one on the farm who did
not know the desperate serious-
ness of the plot which the
“You know.” he said, with his arm round her shoulder, “I’m doing this for your sake. If
hurts me to know that you’ve been done out of your rights. I want to see justice done."
accountant had evolved. But
his first remark paralysed his
wife and Rhoda with fear of
what might be revealed.
“I might take my books to
my solicitor to see if there’s any
real chance of trouble. My old
friend Johnston will know what
to do. He was the one who ad-
vised me to run the place as a
company, and only a few weeks
ago when we were having a talk
at the bowling-club he wanted
to know how I was getting along
with the bookkeeping end of it.”
“No! No, don’t do that!”
Mrs. Kraftmann’s agitation was
so great that he stared at her in
surprise. “He’ll only find out
that you’ve been doing things
you shouldn’t have done ; and
that would be so humiliating. If
he “a^^nd^Mrs°John-
be so bad And Mrs John
She’d be sure to find
how
l£she didn’t misuse
i . . f the
dea
ia , n«»vW in nllt
, ir. 'l rif ie Foho and
of lie town. 11see Folio and
Rotary Club so that he doesn’t
get a job anywhere ilse. IU
Jound to out rf to™ all
1 thev’ve not
f«stored,only' ™ «°‘
a y *. r what’we did to
g . >r rk
fet
• y ; . „ y y
“You forget,” Alec reminded
s > .
hun,that no matt,er what you
tar and feather
towm““toSZ
tion ; department’s whispering-
gallery and put you in,”
Krafttaann’s body
fte led bloodTf
rage
“That lying, sneaking scoun-
drel!” L shouted. “He’s not fit
tn wi”
Immediately his wife sprang
up to lay imploring hands on
y p
“No, Father! No! That isn’t
the way out. You mustn’t think
of it ” Y
There was terror in her voice.
She was thinking of the time
when Kraftmannhad, more-or-
less accidentally, killed a man.
That legendary happening, about
which Viki was in the habit of
boasting, was a recurring night-
mare to Mrs. Kraftmann because
s he was sure that he couldn’t
possibly escape the consequences
the second time. Kraftmann
said nothing. He was not con-
templating murder, but he knew
the value of being able to create
fear in his family.
After tea when Rhoda had
finished the dishes and laid the
table ready for breakfast in the
morning she went into the gar-
den. She often did this on sum-
mer evenings ; putting the hose
on here and there; relaxing as
far as she ever allowed herself
to relax; getting some kind of
satisfaction for her soul from
her flowers; and drawing com-
fort from the scented air rising
from green lawns and moist
earth.
Until the advent of Breyley
it had been Johnny’s habit to
with kr Tn casiS
wim ner m a aes y,
mosquitoes Jnd becoming more
g a?L th :.a
•SJ'jbo
lk He slumped into a garden-
Teat and sa“ devotedly 4h his
cb i n CUD ned in his hands. For
t Zte n.iL of them
h« minutes knowiog
what he was expecting her to
ray said t 0 be very blue
*«£,.»»“ to
To which Johnny replied very
definitdy:
“I’ve sot good reason for it.”
“What’s the matter with you?
A J^wes? J w
“j’ m a u r j e ht ”
“Then why are you acting like
th - 9 what’s wrong with you?
Wiat S clelr oU t!’’
“Oh no Johnny'” Rhode’s
voice was sh“ked. “You
mustn’t do that”
“Why shouldn’t I? Idont
belong he fa ly faere
You’ve g'ot your shares*in the
company, and all those you
bought from Viki and Alec.”
“I’m going to sell them. I
reckon I know somebody who
would give me an extra good
price for them.”
F Johnny said this with much
slyness and cunning. Rhoda,
warned by it, replied with con-
siderable caution. .
“When a company is in
trouble the price of the shares
usually drops.”
“Ah, yes.” Johnny’s voice
was patromsmgly knowing,
“That is when a company is in
trouble through running at a
loss. But say the trouble is
caused by crooks trying to get
control; then those same crooks
might be very keen to buy a
packet of shares that might be
enough to give them the upper
hand. So why shouldn’t I cash
in?”
Rhoda dropped the hose, so
perturbed that she forgot for the
first time in her life to turn off
the tap, and went and sat beside
him. Her voice took on a
roughened, agitated edge.
“You wouldn’t be so mean as
to do that. Especially to people
who’ve been like your own
family to you.”
“Me mean! ” Johnny ex-
claimed in theatrically feigned
surprise. “I’m not the one who’s
mean. I didn’t start all this
trouble. What I now say is, if
members of the family are mean
enough to tear the company
apart just to get a few more divi-
dends, and even plot with a dirty
outsider to let him get control,
then no one can say a word
against me if I want to cash-in
for myself while the going is
good.”
Johnny paused, trying to make
out in the darkness if this
elaborately thought-out attack
was having the desired effect.
Rhoda sat completely silent; so
he went on with a self-confidence
that could have owed a lot to
emulation of his hero, Kraft-
mann:
“You want to think out care-
fully just what you’re doing. And
another thing you want to think
out is what sort of a bloke is
this friend of yours you’ve been
scheming with. If you haven’t
got sense enough to realise by
this that he’s a crook, then
you’re not very bright.”
He began what was intended
to be a deliberate rising to his
feet and a slow, dignified with-
drawal. But Rhoda sprang up
before he had well begun.
“You! You! ——
You! ” She was so outraged
she couldn’t think of what
to call him. “Don’t you
try to lecture me like that.
I’vfc done more for the company
than you ever have. I never
meant to bring this trouble on it.
And I haven’t agreed to any plot
with anyone. You just don’t
understand how terribly com-
plicated it all is for me.”
She stamped off with such
asperity that Johnny was left
standing speechless. Presently
he realised that there were
several very cutting replies he
could have made, but, being the
kind of person he was, he made
no attempt to pursue her.
He turned off the hose and
went to his own room.
CHAPTER XIV
NEXT morning at breakfast,
immediately after Kraft-
mann had left the table in his
precipitate, good - example - set-
ting fashion, Rhoda surprised
the others.
“You needn’t be afraid that
I’ll do what Gregory wants me
to do,” she said. “I’ll ring him
up this morning and tell him.”
They smiled at her, receiving
her again into the warmth of the
family; ready to forgive her for
the fright she had given them.
Her mother got up and kissed
her. • , T
“My darling girl, I prayed
anxiously all last night that you
should be given the strength to
do it.”
Johnny grinned at her, de-
lighted, seeing this as the out-
come of his diplomacy of the
previous evening, but magnani-
mously prepared to say nothing
about that.
“Good girl, Rhoda,” he said
with ardent enthusiasm. “Now
we’ve only got Breyley to fix.”
Rhoda made a little grimace
to herself. Stefanik looked up
from the enjoyment of his
coffee and roll with a frivolous
conviction that the troubles of
such elemental people as Aus-
tralians could not possibly be of
any great seriousness, or require
any great thought to overcome.
“This Breyley,” he said. “I
think I hear his name before.
He is a very bad man?”
“As a matter of fact,” Alec
said, looking around at the
others to see how much they’d
agree could be confided to
Stefanik, “he’s trying to get a
lot of money out of us. He’s
discovered something Father did
and he’s using that as a lever.”
“Ha,” said Stefanik, taking a
quick sip of his coffee and at the
same time raising one arm and
snapping his fingers as if to sym-
bolise some merry peasant-
dance, “if you are rich you are
blackmailed. That is the way of
the world.” He wiped his mouth
and sat back to give them the
benefit of his thorough worldli-
ness.
“There are only three things
you can do. You can pay up
and be cheerful; you can refuse
and challenge him to do his
(Continued on page 24)


dsf
HEARING
CENTRES
(The Electrocoustic Co.)
10 MARTIN PLACE (Opp. G.P.0.) BL 2018
Introduce 4 and 5 Valve
ioi Hearing Aids
20
30
40
50 K
The extent of your Hearing
loss may be equivalent to
; 25% i
60 j
70 ;>•
80?-
90
80%
OR any intermediate figure
of loss between 0 & 100 os
represented by o CURVE on
a graph.
%c\
VALVE
AID
m
ALVE
AAID<
V J!
u
Si
VALVE
AID
100
Differently powered aids as shown above, which rely on
EXTRA VALVES instead of only BATTERY size, reduces
the DISTORTION produced so often by the ordinary 3 valve
aid turned fully on in attempting to overcome severe deaf-
ness as well as slight loss. Just as a small car FULLY
ACCELERATED makes more noise climbing a steep hill
than a more powerful car only slightly accelerated, so a
4 and 5 valve aid overcomes severe deafness more
SMOOTHLY and with GREATER CLARITY.
The Telex phlicy of fitting hearing aids is based on a scien-
tifically conducted HOME TRIAL (see Pink Pages, Tel.
Book), and the GUARANTEE of subsequent repairs
AFTER the initial guarantee expires.
HEARING
MELB.: 250 Collins St.
BRIS. i 127 Adelaide St.
ADEXi.: GO Rnndle St.
PERTH; 40 William St.
HOBART: 104 Collins St.
SYDNEY: 10 Martin Tl.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter
and Thorne Sts.
W’GONG: 87 Keira St.
sdf
MOST COUNTRY TOWNS THROUGHOUT AUST.
and In most capital cities throughout the world.
Mail this Coupon for full Particulars.
Name Address 8.N.l
Shaggy Dodgson's hour of glory
by STANDBY (RS OIRTEIYS)
WITH both gnarled hands
firmly clamped on the
steel bulwark old
Shaggy Dodgson stared
out at what he mentally classi-
fied as “a real nasty-lookin’
sea.”
“ ’Ang on, Shaggy,” he mut-
tered. “Fair snorter of a sea
runnin’. Mustn’t go overboard
on a night like this. They’d
never be able to lower a boat to
pick yer old carcass up.”
The bulwark dipped and
swayed in a totally unexpected
manner, causing Shaggy to
release his hold and crash flat
on his back. His uncovered head
struck the steel deck with a
metallic clang—a rare wallop,
he complained. Had the Bel-
yando’s mate witnessed his fall
he would have expressed more
concern for the deck than for
Shaggy’s head. But no one "Wit-
nessed it, no one saw him as he
lay there staring up at the stars
gyrating madly around the truck
of the foremast. Or was it the
mast swaying around the stars?
“It doesn’t matter which,”
Shaggy decided, closing his eyes
to shut out the dizzying spec-
tacle. “It’s still a ’ell of a night
for a poor sailor to be at sea.”
Something brushed against his
face and he opened his eyes in
time to see an animal leap clear
across his chest and vanish in
the darkness.
“Blasted cat! ” he growled.
Two seconds later it was fol-
lowed by another and then
another until they formed a con-
tinuous procession across his
chest. Since the S.S. Belyando
carried only one cat it simply
didn’t make sense to Shaggy, An
endless procession of cats
scrambling over his chest!
Struggling to maintain his
balance he sat up, blinked and
said,
“Scat! Shoo! Ship’s lousy
.with ’em.”
The noise and the movement
scarcely diverted the procession ;
it certainly didn’t halt it. Instead
of using his chest as a gangway
the animals now leaped across
his shins. It took Shaggy several
minutes to bring them into
proper focus and realise that
they were not cats but rats, that
they were coming up from
Number-one hold through a
corner where the hatches had
been left off for ventilation, and
that they were streaming across
the deck and out through a
freeing port in the ship’s side.
Rats! Rats committing suicide
by leaping overboard in raid-
ocean! That, Shaggy decided.
did not make sense either. Rats
didn’t do things like that
Very cautiously he felt the
back of his head. That was the
only possible explanation. The
wallop, thick though his skull
was, must have affected his brain.
He must be seeing things.
Had anyone accused him of
being drunk he would have
denied the charge strenuously,
indignantly. When a man was
drunk, he had always main-
tained, he could neither see nor
hear. He couldn’t feel anything,
couldn’t even move.
Well, he could see, couldn’t
he? He could see the mast with
all its rigging and cargo gear
swaying above him. And he
could see the rats, even if he
didn’t quite believe they were
there. He could move, too. To
prove it he staggered awkwardly
to his feet and lurched for the
bulwark. In one of its wilder
swoops it almost eluded him,
but by a supreme effort he
grasped it and clung there.
“Roll, you old sea cow, roll,”
he roared aggressively. “Now
where’s yer flamin’ rats?”
A HIGH-PITCHED squeal
answered him, the terrified
squeal of a rat falling with a plop
into the dark water below.
Shaggy saw the others then, a
long procession of rats scramb-
ling up what was undeniably the
forespring and disappearing in a
dark forest of swaying trees.
Very cautiously he released his
hold, slid to a sitting-position on
the deck and closed his eyes.
This was a situation calling for
some very careful thinking.
Since things had got themselves
so horribly jumbled they would
obviously have to be sorted out
and' put back in their proper
places. First there was the fore-
spring. If it was out the Bel-
yando must be alongside the
wharf. The trees? Since ships
and trees didn’t go together
they could only be the barnacle-
encrusted piles, just discernible
in the gloomy cavern beneath the
wharf decking.
The apparent heavy rolling of
the ship Shaggy dismissed with
a contemptuous shrug. Things
had a habit of dipping and
swaying when he had a few
grogs in. But that didn’t mean
he was drunk. Oh, no, not by
a long shot! Why, he could
remember everything—well
nearly everything—that had hap-
pened earlier in the night.
There was that bit of a dust-
up in the last pub, the miserable
barman who’d refused to refill
his glass, and finally the publican
who had tried to chuck him out.
That memory wrung a derisive
chuckle from old Shaggy, who
had been thrown out of so many
pubs that he knew every phase
of the publican’s rush, from the
moment when it was merely a
gleam in the publican’s eye, to
the final undignified crash on the
pavement outside.
From Hong Kong to Hobart,
from Port Said to Pernambuco,
the technique never varied. The
boss or his bouncer came at you
with a rush calculated to throw
even a sober man off-balance.
If you took one step backwards
you were done; you continued
that stern-first retreat till your
head collided with the
pavement, and you could
count yourself lucky if
you didn’t get a boot in
the ribs as a farewell gift.
Over the wandering
years Shabby had evolved
his own defensive tech-
nique.
Directly the gleam be-
came a rush you lashed
put. Admittedly the final result
was usually the same, the punch
ending in the air and you in the
gutter, but occasionally an un-
wary bouncer hung himself on
the end of the punch, the speed
of his rush adding such force to
the impact that you were able to
leave in a more-or-less dignified
manner before the bouncer
recovered.
And that’s how it had been
tonight. Elated by his unex-
pected victory Shaggy had even
paused to hurl a defiant chal-
lenge to all-comers before step-
ping sedately outside. He re-
membered the incident clearly,
but from there on things were
a trifle hazy. Anyhow, he
reasoned, he’d got back aboard
his ship and that proved he was
sober.
Slowly, through the fumes of
alcohol, he got his facts sorted
out. This was the port of
Sydney. The Belyando was
alongside the wharf. The der-
ricks were lowered and the
hatches were on, which meant
she was sailing for Rabaul at
dawn.
And her rats were leaving her!
With a howl of dismay Shaggy
to his feet. The old
ship was doomed! Someone,
everyone, must be warned at
once. In over fifty seagoing
years Shaggy had heard many
stories of ships deserted by rats
in the final port of call before
disaster overtook them. They
knew when a ship was doomed,
those rats! You couldn’t fool
them.
back in the crew’s
messroom, with both feet
propped up on the table, the
watchman was so absorbed in a
Western thriller that he didn’t
look up till Shaggy stumbled
over the door-sill. He started
guiltily then, half expecting to
see one of the mates.
“Oh, you’re back,” he said,
relief showing in his face.
In the harsh glare of the elec-
tric light there was no mistaking
old Shaggy Dodgson, nor was
it difficult to see where his nick-
name came from. An unruly
mop of iron-grey hair straggled
down over his lined forehead,
hair sprouted from his ears and
showed like a tangled mat in the
V of his unbuttoned shirt. His
grizzled beetling eyebrows hung
in down-curving curtains, so
dense that it was difficult to
believe that he could see through
them. Apparently the idea of
clipping the screens away or at
least brushing them aside never
occurred to him.
“Shaggy Dog,” they called
him. And indeed there was
something of the unkempt old
Airedale about those beetling
brows and the drooping, though
still powerful, old shoulders.
Seeing him for the first time
you half expected him to bare
his few remaining fangs and
give an amiable “woof” at you.
“Rouse t’others,” he croaked
now. “Pack yer gear and get
ashore. The rats is leavin’ ’er.”
The watchman, a young A.B.
named Travers, said with bored
disinterest, “You’re full again,”
and resumed his reading.
“Lissen, you iggerant young
!” Shaggy lunged danger-
ously forward and banged a
great gnarled fist on the table.
“You ain’t been at sea long
enough to tell a backstay from
a bosun’s locker. I’m tellin’ you
the rats is leavin’ the ship. And
don’t you inshin’, incin’ . . . any-
way, don’t try to tell me I’m
full. I got aboard under me
own steam, didn’t I? And I
seen the rats, didn’t I? Seen
’em cornin’ up outer No. 1 hold
and runnin’ ashore along the
forespring,”
“The way you’ve been suckin’
up the grog in this port,” Travers
said, “it wouldn’t surprise me if
you seen a flock of sea-elephants
fly out of the hold and start put-
ting in an eyesplice in the fore-
spring.”
“You, you. . .” Words failing
him Shaggy reached forward and
grasped the slack of Travers’s
shirt in a huge paw. “Come and
see for yerself,” he growled,
almost dragging the unfortunate
watchman over the table.
Travers dropped his magazine
and gave in. Shaggy was a big
man and still powerful despite
his age. Moreover, he was drunk,
and in that state he was invari-
ably truculent, aggressive and
ready to take a crack at all-
comers,
“0.K.,” Travers said, “Show
me your rats.”
Unfortunately for Shaggy the
procession had stopped by the
time they reached the for’ard
well deck, but he didn’t give in
without a strong protest.
“They was there,” he insisted.
“I seen ’em as plain as I can see
you. And I heard ’em squealin’,
too.”
“I know,” Travers soothed. “I
believe you. Wearin’ kilts,
marchin’ fout%breast and playin’
the bagpipes. I’ve seen ’em doin’
it myself. Now how about you
turning-in? We’re sailing at
daylight.”
Shaggy refused to turn-in.
Exercising a very considerable
lung-power he abused Travers,
adding for good measure a lot
of rude remarks about mere first-
voyagers and counter-jumpers
who called themselves seamen.
He expressed the hope that
Travers would be the first to
drown when the Belyando went
down, and, unable to think of
any worse fate, staggered off to
the fo’c’sle.
r T'HE Belyando was an old ship,
and the seamen sleeping in
her old-fashioned fo’c’sle were
not pleased to be roused by a
raucous “Ahoy there! Show a
leg. Turn to unless you all
want t’ go down with the ship.”
Someone called irritably,
“What the devil is all the
racket?” And a voice answered
“It’s the bloody Ancient
Mariner, full again. Put a sock
in it, Shaggy, and let us get some
sleep.”
No one could fairly claim tha
old Shaggy was the type of sea
man who saves himself and cal
lously deserts his shipmates.
Through a barrage of hostile
remarks and crude insults he did
his best to convince these men
of the urgency of the occasion.
He pointed out, quite truthfully,
that he had been going to sea
before any of them were born
and should therefore know what
he was talking about.
“And I’m tellin’ yer,” he
cautioned, his tone deepening to
a sepulchral croak, “when the
rats start leavin’ a ship it’s time
for all seamen to foller ’em,
(Continued on page 30)


I
The Sign of Friendly, Efficient Service
throughout Australia
BOOTES
GROUP SERVICE
HUMBER HILLMAN
SUNBEAM - TALBOT CARS
COMMER & KARRIER TRUCKS
SALES AND SERVICE
IN 132 COUNTRIES
You’ll find this yellow and blue sign displayed by Rootes Group distributors
and dealers throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Wherever it is
you’ll find efficient service backed by the resources of Australia’s Friendliest
Factory—the big plant of Rootes (Australia) Limited at Fishermens Bend,
Victoria.
You’ll find genuine factory-made parts and factory-trained service specialists always ready to
help you, and keen to maintain the spirit of courtesy and friendliness which is traditional in the
Rootes organisation. If you own a Rootes Group product, get your service where you see this
sign. You’ll find it pays. ,
"rrnrrrn. -
ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
FISHERMEN'S BEND, PORT MELBOURNE


Brush
SAVE COST
PER ACRE
WITH . . .
MOBILCQ
MOBILCO
STRONGER ,
EASIER TO
SUPER CONCENTRATED
MIX—EASIER TO HANDLE
Five T
is a killer with a punch.
Being 80% 2,4, 5-T acid
base, it really gets to work on eradica-
tion of the most stubborn patches of
brush; briars, boxthorn, blackberries.
TD
likewise gives you a high
concentration being an 80%
mixture of 2, 4-D and 2,4, 5-T. It's
a sure-fire killer of woody and her-
baceous weeds and does a first class
job keeping roads, creeks and gullies
clean.
If you have a weed problem, please let us help you. Just fill in and post the
coupon below and we will act at once.
THESE HANDY SIZES GO A LONG WAY
T D is available in handy | gall,
and quart cans. 5T comes In
quart cans only.
ASK FOR THEM
AT YOUR LOCAL STORE
•*>**> S>x- fix-
>>*>*' s£& »■>
•.* • v •" • '<<•> s v ... ■
..........
I' ■S’-SN?
--Y. ..\v< * >.<■
SS* f ■-. >y Wy
« w». «•**»
mmi
Name
My Weed Problem is :
■
—
Address
sdf
Mobiles CHEMICALS PTY. LTD.
DIVISION OF MOBILE
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE -
TELEGRAMS
HEAD OFFICE; 410-416 WHITEHORSE
BRANCHES
AGENTS
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
PHONE: IF 4209
MOBILCO, SYDNEY
RD., MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
performance of the Shaw play
better than most repertory
players.
The next-best voice belongs to
Desmond Patterson, an
Enzedder, who likewise plays the
role of the cultivated, scientific
soldier with the same distinction.
The least voice belongs to
Leonard Gubby who is Major
Alexius Spindoff of the Bui-
ganan army, the fatheaded hero
who brings off a brilliant cavalry
charge because the Servian army
has been served with the wrong
ammunition. Even when stand-
ing on top of the footlights Mr.
Gubby gives the illusion that he
is singing from some remote spot
outside the theatre.
Shirley Nicholls is excellent as
Aurelm, the wife of Colonel
Popoff, and so is Jenifer Eddy,
as her cousin. As the Bulgarian
colonefi who is more interested
in girls stockings than army
marching-boots, Cid Ell wood is
so completely m accord with the
best musicomedy traditions that
he might be an avatar of half a
dozen comedians of a past
generation.
As the dialogue was written by
Shaw, it is tight, consecutive,
compact and productive of more
giggles than most examples of
the genus, and the business of
Colonel Popoff’s house-coat, in
the pocket of which is found
photos of his wife, his cousin
and his maidservant with loving
messages to Lieutenant Bumerli
j s satisfactorily sillv Although
not overendowed with the
Du i c t ir ; tuc j e dpmanrlfvt k t u
b t • , rrirn . . . . e
the ladies of sing web
d smg weil
Tf . y * .
11 tn e present revival is
successtui the management
nreatens to apply the same
resuscitative methods to “The
Belle of New York ” “Floradora"
an omers.
* * *
The Beaux Stratagem”
Restoration comedy and most
French films have one thing in
common; both assume that the
things worth having in life are
a bag of gold followed by
marriage to a woman with a
pretty face. Canberra Reper-
tory’s performance of Farqu-
bar’s “The Beaux Stratagem”
gave a lively interpretation of the
trivial theme. In this play every-
one is after the bag and the
pretty woman—the innkeeper,
the highwaymen, the hard-
drinking squire and two pro-
pertyless gentlemen. Of course,
at the end, the two men of gentle
birth and the right sort of titles
win the bag and the women.
Audiences seem to like this
type of play, possibly because it
presents the big subjects of life
m a painless way. In the first
15 or so minutes Mr. McMillan,
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Ogilvie
stru Bg led hard to create the
atmos Phere, but somehow it did
not quite come off. Then a
superb performance by Helen
Anderson as Mrs. Sullen lifted
the play and, incidentally, the
other players. For a moment
one could sit back and enjoy
her jokes about marriage, ably
supported as she was by Terry
Juliff, as the insensitive, alcoholic
husband.
The otherSj howeverj ; ust
could not respond to this lead,
despite the exquisite costumes,
the excellent work of producer
Anne Godfrey Smith and some
heavy clowning by Ken Thomp-
son as Scrub.
Still, the audience enjoyed it,
and &** * s unfa-ir to infer that
tbe hag of gold still has too
man y secret worshippers, one
mu . st a dmire the enthusiasm with
which producers and players
P erf °rm the rite.
M.C.
Women Painters
The 45th annual exhibition of
the Melbourne Society of
Women Painters at the Athen-
aeum Gallery, Melbourne, pre-
sented few surprises. Barbara
Newman supplies an interesting
study, a bit staccato, of “The
Homestead, North-east Mango-
plah,” Esther Patterson has a
smart piece of illustration in
“The Market” and Betty Patter-
son has a couple of her babies,
which, like Ginger Meggs, in-
veterately refuse to grow up.
P. Hurry has a suggestive
portrait of an old man which
could be carried further, and
there is sincere, though super-
ficial, observation in Vera Mor-
rison’s “Blossom,” which con-
trasts oddly with the blatancy of
Annie Oliver’s “Hydrangeas”
and Nell Clayfield’s “Camellias.”
From the point of view of size
Mary McLeish has the most im-
portant picture in the exhibition,
and it has been given the place of
honour as regards situation,
bang in front of the entrance.
Miss McLeish’s pictorial short-
hand is getting more and more
into the realm of the hiero-
glyphic. We know that the
attractive-looking girl who occu-
pies the canvas has blue eyes,
red lips and lacquered finger-
nails, but the artist tells us noth-
ing about the texture of her skin,
her dress, her hair or anything
else about her.
Lesley. Sinclair’s “The Lake,
Albert Park,” is a far more con-
sidered picture. Everything is
differentiated as it is in nature,
but there is a unity between the
parts which doesn’t exist in Miss
McLeish’s portrait, and there is a
lovely subtle quality about the
shadow in the foreground which
is carried through to the water
and the boats, lit by a ray of sun-
light, into the distance.
The rest of the feminine
parade is mainly a parade of
fashion, some of it up-to-date
and some of it very outmoded.
❖ * *
“The Sinner ,,
This German film, at Mel-
bourne Savoy, is remarkable for
two things: the photography is
as direct and simple as the acting
of Hildegarde Neff is sincere and
unsentimental in a part that most
Americans would make a
; shambles. Miss Neff plays the
daughter of a German citizen
who doesn’t see eye to eye with
the Nazis and is liquidated. The
only asset she has is her physical
beauty and she takes it on to the
streets. She is well on the path
to disintegration when she meets
an artist (Gustav Froehlich) who
has taken to drink on learning
that he has an incurable disease
which must end in blindness.
The girl devotes herself to him,
he starts painting instead of
drinking and becomes famous,
but the worst fate that can befall
a visual artist overtakes him, and
they both take poison. It is a
simple enough story lifted above
the commonplace by the richness
and warmth of Miss Ness’s act-
ing.
&
“Cauboy”: A further demon-
stration at the Regent Theatre,
South Yarra, of the latest de-
velopments in Cinema Scope left
me with a feeling almost of
reverence for the scientists who
are busying themselves with try-
ing to give the public the last
word in entertainment. There
was no discernible improvement
in the quality of the color,
though there was in the effect of
distance, but the sound seemed
wellnigh perfection. Listening
to a symphony performance one
might have been sitting in the
Town Hall, and it made one’s
hair stand on end to hear the
roar of a train approaching. I
fear that there are disadvantages,
however. The film confectors
will automatically be driven to
depicting Roman triumphs,
armies advancing, crowds riot-
ing and mass-movements of that
sort; and scenes like an argu-
ment between a wife and a hus-
band or between a jilted lover
and his girl-friend will tend to
go out. There is nothing more
boring than a mass-movement,
but eyerybody is interested in
what is going on in the house
nextdoor, and it doesn’t require
a very wide screen to depict
that.
worst in the happy confidence
that he might not dare; or you
can have the wicked blackmailer
done away with.”
He passed his cup to Rhoda
for a refill and smiled pleasantly
on all of them. The family re-
garded him without much
amusement, and without any re-
sentment, rather blaming Alec
for talking to him about matters
of such gravity. But Johnny,
who had got the idea from
Stefanik’s easy patronage, and
from his lofty vocabulary, that
he was a man of great eminence
and learning—“terrible well edu-
cated” as the term went among
his associates —could not bear
to see his gifts wasted in such a
desperate crisis.
“We can’t pay up and be
cheerful,” he said with a literal-
ness so charming to Stefanik that
he nodded his head as if in time
to music, “because he wants
everything. All the land, stock
and buildings. He’d kick us all
off the place,”
Stefanik bestirred himself
from his pleasantly enjoyable in-
difference. He glanced round at
the others to see if they shared
Johnny’s apprehensions.
“No, no,” he said, making
round-mouthed cannonball ex-
clamations of the word, “This
cannot be allowed! This is
serious! Where else will I paint
my pictures? You must tell me
all about this matter so that
counter-plots may be evolved.
Perhaps I should start to shadow
this Breyley character immedi-
ately.”
At the thought of anyone who
would be so conspicuous in a
place like Jindulla as Stefanik
shadowing a sharp and sus-
picious character like Breyley,
none of them could forbear to
smile, which was probably what
Stefanik intended. But there the
discussion stopped because work
had been planned for the day,
and the work was going to be
done even if Breyley might be
the one to reap the ultimate
benefit.
However, shadowing Breyley
was out of the question by even-
ing. A gossiping friend of
Rhoda’s mentioned on the tele-
phone that Breyley had caught
the afternoon plane to Sydney.
“Did you know he was going,
Rhoda? He never said a word
about it to me, and I was talk-
ing to him on the way to the
office this morning about some
work he was supposed to finish
for our firm before tonight.”
To her mother, Rhoda said,
“He must have decided to go to
Sydney immediately after I
phoned him. Oh, how could I
have ever thought anything of
that man! I’ll write to him
straight away and tell him that
all is over between us.”
“No need to be in too great
a hurry, my child,” Mrs. Kraft-
mann replied in her calm,
omniscient manner. “You have
no real reason for thinking he’s
going to see Viki or that he
wants her to go in with him in
this wicked scheme. After all,
his parents live in Sydney, and
one of them might suddenly be
seriously ill. You can so easily
misjudge people.”
“I’ve still got a feeling that it
will be all over between us,”
Rhoda lamented.
“You’ll find out soon enough
without rushing in before you
know what you’re doing,” her
mother told her.
(To be continued)


INK AND ADELAIDE
By GEOFFREY BURGOYNE
I—The "Weekly Herald”
IN March, 1907, my associa-
tion with the “Gadfly” came
to an end and I also escaped
from civil servitude.
One afternoon when I had
dropped in for the usual
“Gadfly” conference, Percy Bird
asked whether I had seen that the
“Weekly Herald” was advertising
for a new editor. I had not. Bird
suggested that I apply for the
job. I had been engaged by the
editor, E. A. Roberts, to write
some articles during his absence
on an election campaign in Tas-
mania, and had contributed other
articles gratis. None of the
“Herald” board of management
was known personally to me. It
was composed of Labor members
of Parliament and one or two
trade-union secretaries.
I wasn’t very hopeful, but I
sent in an application, with clip-
pings of articles which the
“Herald” had used, and some
from The Bulletin. Deciding
that I might as well go the whole
animal, I criticised the paper as
it was, pointing out that it was
nothing but politics and dull
trade-union reports from the
front-page to the back, read only
by the already converted, and so
useless as a means of gaining
adherents to the Labor cause.
I let it go at that, never
approaching any member of the
board, but meeting Roberts in
the street one day I asked him to
recommend me if he thought I
could do the job. He told me
that he had nothing to do with
any appointment. I thought
there was something peculiar in
his expression, and in the light
of what I heard later I could see
some reason for it. He had asked
for an increase of his salary of
£4 a week, and the board had
resolved that the best way for
him to get a rise was for the
situation nominally to be thrown
open at £5 a week. Roberts
could be an applicant and get the
editorship again.
It didn’t work out like that.
One morning a few weeks later
the “Herald” manager called at
my office and asked if I could
come out with him. He informed
me I had been appointed editor,
and wanted to know when I
could take on. An appointment
was made for me to meet the
board.
The members of the board
were pleasant, but I had to
resist pressure right away. After
a short general discussion, chair-
man Reginald Pole Blundell,
M.P., remained to talk over my
plans.
There was always a front-page
article by “Epsilon,” pen-name
of William Wedd, an old Labor
stalwart who edited the
“Chronicle,” the “Advertiser’s”
weekend paper. Blundell
explained that Roberts had paid
for this himself, but, of course,
I was free to do as I thought fit.
I said firmly that Mr. Roberts
had his Parliamentary salary, but
I would have only my editorial
pay. Moreover, the duties of
editor would absorb the whole
of my time and energies.
Blundell was quite pleasant about
it and reiterated that there would
be no interference with my
conduct of the paper.
As I was not only editor but
also the entire literary staff, I
was disturbed by the necessity
of filling another column.
Besides, I thought the “Epsilon”
feature was an excellent one.
Wedd liked writing it, too. He
came to me and offered to do it
for nothing, but I wouldn't hear
of it. I told him I thought it
wouldn’t be long before it re-
appeared, and not at my expense,
or his. And so it did. “Constant
readers” complained, and after
a few weeks Blundell asked me
whether I had any objection to
“Epsilon’s” articles. “Far from
it!” So “Epsilon” came back
and the £1 a week came from
the revenues of the paper.
I had a funny little office. It
contained a safe in which were
kept business-books, papers and
cash-takings. The library con-
Geoffrey Burgoyne, although he now lives in Sydney, is usually
thought of in relation to Perth. But these articles concern his
earlier experience as editor and associate-editor of two Laoor
papers (a weekly and a daily) in Adelaide, in the first decade
of the century. An earlier article (B. 33/9/54) told the story
of “The Gadfly,” an Adelaide weekly which attracted brilliant
contributors but lew advertisers.
Young Burgoyne, a civil servant when “The Gadfly was
launched early in 1906, had been sending pars, to The Bulletin.
He was invited to contribute to “The Gadfly, and did so, semi-
political articles mainly. They were not always popular. One
businessman wrote cancelUng his subscription, condemning ine
Gadfly/’ on their account, as a “damned Socialist rag.
This brings us into the period covered by these articles.
Later Burgoyne left Adelaide to join the staff of the West
Australian,” as a leader-writer, then chief sub-editor. He was
with the “West AustraUan” for two fairly long periods, 1911-33
and 1931-40. During an interval he was sent to Tasmania as
managing-editor of the Hobart “News.” but was back in W.A.
in 1935, this time as managing-editor of the Perth Daily News.
In 1931, when the paper changed hands, he went again to tne
“West Australian,” but joined the “Daily News” during the war.
He resigned as editor of the “Daily News in 1950.
All of which adds up to something like 39 years in W.A.
journalism, if the time in Tasmania is subtracted. But he had
other interests in that State—such as being chairman of the
Children’s Hospital Board, and, after the war, on the executive
of the W.A. Army Comforts Pund.
Thomas Burgoyne, the lather of the writer of these articles,
was a prominent figure in S.A. politics, held various
(Commissioner of Crown Lands, Commissioner of Public Works,
Minister of Education, chairman of the Independent party), and
started a newspaper at Port Augusta. So public affairs and
printer’s ink doubtless ran in Geoffrey Burgoyne s blood.
sisted of Das Kapital, which I
confess I neglected to read. The
lane in which we lived didn’t get
much sunshine, and heat was
catered for by one of those early
gas affairs of asbestos-fibre
behind a wire-grating. No
chimney or flue for the escape ot
fumes. I tried this contraption
one bitter winter day, and
decided that freezing was a
slower and less certain process
of extinction. But I had little
time to worry about bodily dis-
comfort. X filled from 16 to 20
columns (quarto size) myself
every issue, with a column or so
of short and bright (I hoped)
paragraphs, two inside pages of
political articles, sketches, some
jingle and sport (not racing). My
contributions to The Bulletin
ceased perforce, I had never
worked so hard in my life, or
enjoyed work so much. The
reward was the turning of the
falling circulation in the
opposite direction and the
increase of the “Herald” from
eight pages to 12 within six
months, justified by increased
sales and advertising revenue.
A sequel to this story of
progress may be told here. My
appointment had surprised sub-
scribers to the paper and trade-
union circles, and caused
comment not known to me. It
was known in the Labor move-
ment that there had been a
decided coolness between editor
and manager.
At the annual meeting of
shareholders of the People’s
Printing and Publishing Co-
operative Co., which I attended,
an old Laborite got up and
wanted to know who I was.
Why was Roberts displaced?
Was I a friend of the business-
manager? Before I could say
anything a chap whom I had
never seen before rose to say
that he didn’t know anything
about me either. He didn’t know
whether I was a friend of the
manager and didn’t care. What
he did know was that the paper
had improved beyond recogni-
tion. The board was to be con-
gratulated, and the shareholders
should be very pleased at having
the services of a brilliant young
editor. He moved a motion to
that effect, which was carried.
Collapse of opposition. Blush-
ing B.Y.E.
My first issue caused me some
anxiety. We published on
Thursday afternoon and a first
section was printed on Wednes-
day. My room and the press-
room were divided by a match-
board partition about Bft. high.
The press was a Wharfdale flat-
bed. I was deep in an article
when on the other side of the
partition came a crashing
clamor as if giants were sport-
ing with masses of kerosene-tins.
My first experience of a Wharf-
dale in action. I took my
thoughts and copy-paper to a
friend who had a spare-room and
table in his offices. I did this
for three weeks at printing-times.
Then I realised that I should
have to become accustomed to
the Wharf dale’s dreadful song.
It was not very long before I
became unaware of the machine
until it stopped.
It was hard work filling those
gaping columns week after
week, and sometimes I almost
regretted my discouragement of
trade-union secretaries who had
previously filled space with dull,
ill-written reports of union
affairs. My anxiety was added
to early in the piece by an
intimation from the contributor
of the women’s column that she
was not going on. It seemed she
was a friend of my predecessor
and felt no obligation to help
me. A very good friend and
highly cultured woman came to
the rescue. She was Mrs. L. S.
Morice, wife of J. P. Morice,
Parliamentary librarian, and a
niece of Catherine Helen Spence,
South Australia’s grand old lady
and part-author of the Hare-
Spence system of proportional-
representation.
I was very grateful to Mrs.
Morice, but I soon recognised
that her column was over the
heads of my readers. After
some months she realised this,
too. Reluctant to drop this
feature, I undertook it myself
under the pen-name “Elizabeth.”
What I did was to comment on
current-affairs from what I
imagined would be a woman's
point of view. The column was
quite a success, although some-
times “Elizabeth” was treated to
embarrassing confidences and
consulted on intimate matters
which I had to ignore.
When the weekly was sup-
planted by the “Daily Herald,”
Mary Gilmore was kind enough
to regret the disappearance of
“Elizabeth.” “X always enjoyed
her column,” she wrote. “Or
was it his? I was never quite
sure.”
There was rarely much over-
set when the “Herald” went to
press. I had my work cut out
to fill the space, but only once in
my two years was I caught seri-
ously short. The manager would,
or was supposed to, measure the
metal before the deadline and let
me know how we stood. This
day, fairly early, he told me that
nothing more was wanted, so
what about a drink? I went out
with him, but felt uneasy. I had
the faculty of estimating pretty
closely how copy related to
space. Cutting our quest for
refreshment short, I went back
and found the composing-room
looking glumly at the final forme
half-filled, with not a stick of
metal in the racks. For a
moment I was flummoxed. But
the page had to be filled, and in
short order. A general-election
campaign was on ; this gave me
an inspiration. I asked the fore-
man to let me see what personal
blocks he had on hand. Among
them were single-column blocks
of three candidates for the East
Torrens electorate. X picked them
out. Then I looked among the
display-blocks. There was a fine
large one of the Australian flag
and the Union Jack crossed.
I sketched out an idea quickly
and then rushed to my room.
There I wrote a four-column
streamer-headline marked with
the largest type we possessed:
“Labor’s Standard-bearers,” and
composed a panegyric on each of
them. The page was filled and
the day saved. The standard-
bearers were tickled to death and
subsequently thanked me
warmly. I accepted their appre-
ciation with becoming modesty,
deeming it unnecessary to tell
them the story. An awkward
comeback was that candidates
for other districts wanted me to
repeat the performance in their
interests. I pleaded lack of
space and compromised with
boosts of more modest
dimensions.
All sorts and conditions of
men and women dropped into the
“Herald” office. Cranks with
bees in their bonnets released
them to buzz in my room; and
I also met interesting people.
One was Tom Mann, of English
dock- (and other) strike fame.
He had come down from Broken
Hill, where he had played a part
in the miners’ strike of 1908 or
1909.
Mann at the time had a dis-
like of politicians, and in a
speech to the miners of the
Barrier had urged them to have
nothing to do with politics and
Parliaments. The workers, he
declared, could manage their
affairs and the affairs of the
country without them. I joined
issue with Mann on this subject;
invited him to say what he had
in mind as a substitute for Parlia-
ment ; would a few trade-
unionists meet casually in the
street to legislate when occasion
arose? He did not reply. Mann
had hot then the character or
force which had induced Guards-
officer H. H. Champion to
espouse the cause of the English
dockers. He did not impress me
favorably.
Champion emigrated to Aus-
tralia. I met him in Melbourne,
where he had married a Miss
Goldstein, sister of Vida, a fore-
most feminist of her day. She
stood for the Federal Senate,
and, although not elected, polled
very well. Vida Goldstein was a
striking person; handsome,
clever and always well-dressed,
she would have been an orna-
ment to the Federal Parliament
and more than ornamental. She
called at the “Herald” office
when on a visit to Adelaide. I
took her to lunch and interviewed
her. I discovered that she liked
poached-eggs cold, which I
thought sufficiently remarkable
to be worth recording.
Another interview was with
E. J. Brady, author, poet and
Bohemian, who once startled
Adelaide by calling on the Com-
missioner of Police leading a
crayfish on a length of string.
Brady asked what I wanted him
to talk about.
“Anything you like —but
mostly about the early Aus-
tralian Labor party,” I said.
“Sit down there and let yourself
go.” He did, and I got a rattling
good column out of it,
Ramsay MacDonald was a
disappointment. When the
Morices asked me to dinner to
meet him and his wife at their
home at Glenelg, I was de-
lighted ; but he did not measure
up to my expectations. Tall,
handsome, and well-built, he
posed before the fireplace in the
sitting-room after dinner, ob-
viously aware of the importance
of J. R. MacDonald.
Some time before, Robert
Blatchford had written in the
“Clarion” some articles on the
conditions of Britain’s industrial
workers,* in which he said that
three million (I think that was
the figure) lived permanently
below the breadline. I referred
to the articles, expecting that a
great figure in the Labor party
of England would speak elo-
quently of the sufferings of the
class he represented. MacDon-
ald’s response was a cold douche.
“Blatchford exaggerates,” he
said irritably. “England’s all
right.” Obviously he was disin-
clined to pursue the subject.
I had the impression that J.
Ramsay MacDonald was British
before anything else, and was
not taking criticism from any
damned colonial. His wife was
a charming woman.
I have intimated more than
once that the job of filling the
paper taxed me to capacity and
usually the heldover at the end
of the week would hardly make
a par. I could have “filled”
easily enough had I used the
stuff I dropped into the waste-
paper-basket, for there were
many cranks associated with the
Labor movement in South Aus-
tralia, and the Adelaide citizen
dearly loves to write a “letter to
the editor” —any editor.
For a number of years
enthusiasts in the Labor move-
ment had been striving to raise
funds for the establishment of a
daily newspaper, and the money
had been accumulating slowly
in small amounts. It was hardly
(Continued on page 27)


.Vi
<<£
v^
*<c
u<inr.
»LjS
SS*
~'-w;
O.M
P«
W-S
*t,i
I
Hospital **
☆<s
VOSPITAI
2®*
Chateau Tanumpb
brandy
HATf AU TaNUNDA)
brandy
pBRANDY
FLASK
HALF BOTTLE
BOTTLE
First in Quality—First in Favour
aunAß tuiiiiiih
The Brandy of Distinction
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, AGENTS. ESTB. 1838
; CTI
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VIOLET MARIAN DELORA (for-
merly STEVENS) late of No. 11 Fern
Avenue, Windsor, Victoria. —T AO
NOTICE that REGINALD CHARLES
DELORA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2128 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking the
exercise of the Court’s discretion in his
favour under Section 19 Sub-section 2 (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
18th February 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
BARKER, JONES & LIVINGSTON, Soli-
citors, of 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HORACE JOHN FRANKLIN late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that AILSA ELLEN
FRANKLIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3463 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th day of Febru-
ary 1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from ADRIAN
TWIGG & 00., Solicitors, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROBERT O’SHEA (also known
as JOHN DANE SMITH) late of 1 Church
Street Parramatta N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that ADA MARY O’SHEA has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2476 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 18th February 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HERON ROBERTSON PARKHILL
ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 12
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
BETWEEN VERONICA PEARL KLEASE
Petitioner and JOHN KLEASE Respondent.
TO JOHN KLEASE formerly of 60 Wolfe
Street Newcastle. —TAKE NOTICE that
VERONICA PEARL KLEASE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1072 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under. Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1951 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
30th day of January 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
R. 'S. WOODGATB, Solicitor, 44 King
Street, Newcastle. —0. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Melbourne Cup selections:
1, MASTER PROVEN. 2,
PRINCE DELVILLE. 3,
RISING FAST.
Prizemoney this year is
£15,000, plus a £5OO trophy—
close on £lOOO more than last
year.
The Cup carnival will open at
Flemington next Saturday with
the running of the £7OOO Derby
(an increase of £lOOO on last
year’s figure), the £2OOO Cantala
Stakes, the £l5OO Wakeful Stakes
(up £500), the £2OOO Mackinnon
-Stakes, the £2500 Maribyrnong
Plate and the £l5OO Hotham
Handicap. Winner of the last
doesn’t incur a Cup penalty,
which accounts for the appear-
ance each year of several Cup
horses in this mile and a half
final trial. It has frequently
proved a pointer to the two-
miler.
Rising Fast, Caulfield Cup
winner and favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup, is a five-year-old;
Master Proven is a six-year-old.
The five-year-olds have won 23
Cups, as have the three-year-
olds ; but, as is usual in important
handicaps, the four-year-olds
have had most success. They
have won 26 Cups. Six-year-olds
have won 14 times, and the aged
brigade seven times only. It is
interesting to note that No. 1
saddlecloth has been carried with
success in four of the last eight
Cups—by Dalray (9.8), Delta
(9.5), Comic Court (9.5) and
Russia (9st.). Rising Fast will
carry No. 1 saddlecloth this
year, weight 9.5. The famous
“P’s,” Peter Pan, Phar Lap and
Poitrel, all carried No. 1, as did
Carbine and Archer. Carbine
had 10.5, Archer carried 10.2 in
his second Cup (he won his first
with 9.7) and Poitrel had lOst.
Rising Fast’s 9.5, and the fact
that he will be giving Master
Proven 191 b., are the two factors
to be taken into consideration.
Rising Fast has no form at two
miles, but Master Proven at least
has been over the distance on
three occasions in New Zealand.
He didn’t earn stakemoney at
two miles there, but on one
occasion carried more than his
Cup weight, and in the Welling-
ton Cup finished fourth with
7.11. Master Proven’s pedigree
already has been written on this
page. It has plenty of staying
blood, and his family includes
Archer, winner of the first two
Melbourne Cups, and Dalray,
1952 winner. His fifth in the
Cox Plate was a good pointer, as
he is a handicapper only with no
w.-f.-a. ability. He will find his
Bst. in the two-miler much easier
to handle than the 9.4 last Satur-
day at the Valley, when he met
the winner. Rising Fast, on equal
terms. His jockey, Arthur Ward,
is on the crest of a winning wave.
Mares aren’t often fancied for
the Melbourne Cup. Actually
not a great number have con-
tested the race. Owners generally
reserve the best three-year-old
fillies for the Oaks Stakes, now a
£4OOO event. J. F. Kerr, owner-
trainer of New Zealand’s best
staying mare, Surprise Ending, is
hopeful the four - year - old
daughter of Revelation (imp.)
and Biddy Machree will add her
name to the small list of mares
successful in the two-miler; but
she will need to be fit and well
on the day. She has been slightly
amiss. Winning mares in the Cup
were: Briseis (1876), Acrasia
(1904), Sister Olive (1921),
Rivette (1939) and Rainbird
(1945). Briseis was a three-year-
old and carried a featherweight
6.3 ; Acrasia (7.6) was aged.
Few three-year-olds have been
given such a thorough spring
campaign as Prince Delville,
winner of the A.J.C. Derby,
odds-on favorite for the Vic-
toria Derby and strongly fancied
for the Melbourne Cup. In addi-
tion to competing in the Can-
terbury (third) and the Rosehill
(second) Guineas, he raced in
the A.J.C. Craven Plate for a
close second to Prince Cortauld
and in the Moo nee Valley Cox
Plate for second to Rising Fast.
Prince Delville will lack nothing
on the score of fitness for the
two-miler, and his pedigree
points to him holding a great
chance of adding to the list of
three-year-old Cup-winners. He
looks the pick of this Saturday’s
Derby field, and in the event of a
striking success might threaten
the position of the Cup favorites,
PRINCE DELVILLE is
selected to win the classic from
PRIDE OF EGYPT and KING
BORU.
Sydney three-year-olds have
won six of the last nine Vic-
torian Derbies, winners being
Prince Morvi, Advocate, Hydro-
gen, Delta, Prince Standard and
Magnificent.
• * • •
Rising Fast appears to have
the Mackinnon weight-for-age
contest on Saturday sewn up.
His presence in the field may
reduce numbers. The Cox Plate
brought Rising Fast’s winnings
to £20,490. In all he has started
in 35 races for 13 wins, six
seconds and two thirds, and at
325gns. as a yearling has proved
a bargain.
”He sees more of a fight than refs twice his size.”
As anticipated, Sydney-trained
two-year-old Knave didn’t take
long to open his winning
account in Melbourne. He had
an easy task in the Moonee Val-
ley St. Alban’s Stakes, follow-
ing a good second at Caulfield
to Philstar. Knave may be hard
to down in the Maribyrnong
Plate, but the opposition will be
much stronger. Knave is New
Zealand-bred by Faux Tirage
(imp.) from Trick by Defaulter.
Family lines include Murray
Stream, Hall Mark and Trivalve.
Knave is raced by his breeder
T. C. Lowry, and is a member
of M. McCarten’s Randwick
team.
The 1953-54 season ;* reaching
its fourth month, and, so far as
Sydney is concerned, Neville
Sellwood, now on the injured
list and likely to be out of the
saddle for some weeks, still
heads the jockeys’ table with 20
wins. He is closely pressed by
Bill Cook (18), with A. Ward
(16) third. Last-named pair
might quickly add to totals when
they return from the Melbourne
Cup meeting. W. Camer, N.
McGrowdie and D. Weir are
next in order in the winning-
list. T. J, Smith, with 21 suc-
cesses, is well ahead of the
trainers, while Nilo (imp.) has
an early lead over Delville Wood
(imp.) on the sires’ list.
Some of the cheaper yearlings
at Randwick last year have been
winning races. Phal Prince, a
modest 160gns., won the
Hawkesbury Maiden (4£ fur-
longs). He comes from the
family which produced Hydro-
gen, Desert Gold and Gold Rod.
The colt is by Phaleron Bay
(imp.) from Lady Upstart by
Burnewang (imp.).
* * ♦
The M.C.C. had an easy win
against W.A., mainly because of
one or two individual efforts:
Hutton’s 145 (retired hurt) and
good bowling by Statham, prob-
ably the best of England’s squad
of fast-bowlers. Statham, spare
as he is for a fast man, has come
on a lot since, with Tattersall,
he was flown out here to bolster
Brown’s flagging 1950-51 side.
All round, the English cricket
was not particularly good: the
batsmen generally failed, the
bowling, apart from Statham,
lacked fire, and there wasn’t
much zip in the fielding. On
this showing in the field the team
doesn’t approach the livewire
S’Africans of two years back,
with whom, in that department,
visiting teams are now inevitably
compared.
Only two W.A. batsmen
showed out ex-Victorian
Meuleman with a fighting
second - innings century, and
skipper Carmody, with a bright
second-innings 75; the two put
on 128 in partnership. Meule-
man, spoken of again as a pos-
sible Test-opener, is unlikely to
make the grade ; but he’s been
doing pretty well for W.A. in the
last year or two. Closest he’s so
far been to the Test team was as
12th-man for the first two Tests
against Hammond in 1946.
Carmody, a New South Welsh-
man, was a member of the post-
war Services side. Settled in the
West for some time, he’s done
a lot for W.A. cricket. Author
of the “Carmody field,” an
attacking arrangement of six or
seven slip-fieldsmen fanned-out
for a fast bowler, with the
“country” almost unprotected.
It gives away fours, but often
gets quick wickets.
• • • • 1
Surrey won England’s county
competition this year for the
third successive time. Surrey has,
of course, four of England’s best
bowlers: Bedser and Loader,
who are with Hutton’s team, and
Lock and Laker, who spun out
Australia in the second innings
of the fifth “Ashes” Test last
year. Also with Surrey, Peter
May, Hutton’s 2 i/c, and ’keeper
Mclntyre, who was here with
Brown’s 1950 side. Surrey’s
skipper, Surridge, is an all-
rounder and, like Lock, is one of
the smartest close-to-the-wicket
catchers in the game. Surridge
has only been skipper for the
last three years.
* * *
“Birdie”: Melbourne’s in the
news again— two holes-in-one by
successive golfers playing-off for
the same hole. Scene of the
achievement: the 181 yd. seventh
hole at the Commonwealth
course. It’s been done before,
though. The Golfers Handbook
records 10 instances of successive
holes-in-one. Not recorded by
the Handbook are two other
such instances, both from Mel-
bourne of recent years. One of
which really was unique, since
one man—Bob Bettinelli —was
the author. Bettinelli last year
holed-out in one on the 188 yd.
13th at Hepburn, Then he teed-
up and did it again.
The first 1954 Ampol golf-
tournament, played at The Lakes
(Sydney), most of the time in
gusty, unpleasant weather, was
won by American “Dutch”
Harrison (73, 69, 73, 77—292).
Harrison led after the second
and third rounds, but, following
a great finishing-effort by Ossie
Pickworth (he had four birdies
in the last six holes), Harrison
needed a birdie-four at the last
hole to win. With the aplomb
of the real champion, he re-
covered with a beautiful chip-
shot from a bad lie and holed-
out in four with a 4ft. putt.
Harrison, a bluff, genial, un-
affected type from the Middle
West, a farmer when not golfing,
has been a pro. golfer since
1930. He’s built-up a pretty fine
record. Pickworth, runner-up a
stroke behind, has already won
six Ampols. The other two
Americans, Marty Furgol and
Tommy Bolt, finished well back.
Also well back was Peter Thom-
son, who, except for short dis-
plays of his brilliance, was out
of touch. The second Ampol
will be played at Yarra Yarra
(Melbourne) on Nov. 10-13.
“F.C.”: Having a pot the
other day with two young
golfers—amateur—and wondered
why they kept that status, with
so much big money knocking
around in tournaments. They
told me they were keen enough,
but preferred to eat. In America
any amateur who plays a fair
stick of golf can turn professional
overnight. Here, it is necessary
for a young pro. to serve an
“apprenticeship” of three years
—Australia is the only country
which has this rule, by the way.
I didn’t think to ask permission
to use their names, so won’t,
although I imagine there is no
secret about their sentiments.
One is good—very good—the
other is better-than-average.
Their case must be fairly typical.
* * *
British Empire welter, champ.
Barry Brown (10.8) easily de-
feated Filipino Ray Rico (10.5)
at Leichhardt. Brown’s sup-
porters are now clamoring for
him to fight Freddie Dawson
again, Rico couldn’t cope with
Brown’s southpaw stance and
speed, and the fight was pretty
one-sided. To Brown, in round
eight, on a T.K.O. Seen after
the fight. Brown didn’t seem
anxious to meet Dawson again,
but the New Zealander’s fol-
lowers say he has shown great
improvement recently: they are
keen. Another Sands, Russell
(9.2), outpointed Jimmy O’Shea
(9.0) in the other 12-rounder.
O’Shea was well beaten.


a proposition to attract the
speculator who desired a quick
and handsome return for his
investment. The modus operandi
was the issue of £1 shares in the
Co-operative Printing and Pub-
lishing Co., to be paid for in
monthly instalments. There was
no limit placed on the issue, so
it would have puzzled the most
skilled of actuaries to have
placed a value on the shares.
The share-issue proceeded as
before, according to applica-
tions, after the establishment of
the daily.
When about £4OOO had been
scraped together, impatient
spirits began to press for the
issue of the daily. I protested
that it was madness; that we
had not nearly enough money,
and would be starting with a
millstone of debt round our
necks. I pointed out, too, that
we had to compete with two
well-established morning papers
and that our product would be
judged by comparison. But I
couldn’t shake the powers. Then
I had a brain-wave. There was
virtually a clear field for an
evening paper, which was a far
more hopeful proposition from
a financial point of view.
My suggestion had some sup-
port ; but political opinion,
which carried the day, was that
an evening paper had no weight
and that what was wanted
primarily was a journal to voice
the policy and promote the for-
tunes of the party. A general
election was looming, and the
Labor party, being in Opposi-
tion, was desperately anxious to
have a daily newspaper behind
it during the campaign. So the
die was cast. I often wonder
whether an opportunity of sub-
stantial financial success was not
thrown away in this refusal to
pioneer the evening-paper field.
We decided to close down the
weekly on the issue of our
“Daily Herald,” and I asked John
Verran, leader of the Opposi-
tion, to give the daily aborning
a boost in his opening speech
of the campaign, at Moonta,
the chief polling-centre of his
electorate. A great character
was John Verran, a Cornish
copper-miner whom Oswald
Pryor might have taken for the
model of his Bulletin drawings.
He was about sft. 7in. in height,
and nearly as much across.
Verran received my suggestion
kindly. Putting a hand the size
of a ham on my shoulder, he
said; “Ahl right, laad, aal do
it for you.” And he certainly
did: he might have done for
us. Coming to the peroration of
his policy-speech before a
packed audience in the Moonta
townhall, he said: “And now,
my friends, I have some great
noos for you. There’s goin’ to
appear soon a Labor daily noos-
paper, and it’s goin’ to be a
paper that the workers can take
inter their homes. It can be
read by the wives and daughters
and sisters of the workers. It
ain’t goin’ to have any of this
gamblin’ and bettin’ in it. It s
not goin’ to have any of this
filthy noos about divorce-cases.
It’s goin’ to be a good, clean
paper workin’ for the great
Labor cause.”
“Oh, hell,” I said when I read
the report of the speech. There
was but one issue of the “Weekly
Herald” to go before we
launched out on the great experi-
ment, so I seized the opportunity
to correct the impressions that
would naturally be gathered
from the party leader’s eulogy.
After expressing my appreciation
of Mr. Verran’s good intentions,
I hastened to make it clear that
his tributes would be quite unde-
served. While I could assure
everyone that the new paper
would be fit to be taken into the
workers’ or any other homes, I
had to say no less emphatically
that it would have racing and
stock-exchange news, and that
divorce-cases would be reported.
In short, it was intended to pro-
duce an up-to-date morning
paper which would give all the
news of the world and the day.
I did not ask John Verran to
continue to boost us.
During the last few weeks of
the life of the “Weekly Herald”
there was little time I could
call my own. Literary and
mechanical staffs had to be en-
gaged. Organisation of the jour-
nalistic side was left in my
hands, excepting that Jim
Chamberlain, who had resigned
from the “Advertiser” some time
previously, and Harry Knee-
bone, who was running the rem-
nant of the “Coolgardie Miner,”
had been promised positions.
About three weeks before the
date fixed for the first issue of
the daily, Blundell notified me
that the board had decided that
I should be editor. In those days
I had an exaggerated idea of the
difficulty of conducting daily
newspapers, and their editors I
ranked with Olympians. So far
from throwing up my hat, I
threw up my hands, thinking it
only the square thing to mention
my lack of experience. How-
ever, I was to be editor.
About two weeks later Wil-
liam Wedd came to see me. He
said that he had been offered the
editorship, with me as his asso-
ciate, but had told the board
that the position should be
mine. He reiterated this and
urged me strongly to insist. I
felt relieved and assured Mr.
Wedd that I would be very glad
to work under him. The job
meant a good deal to the old
man; but he was a sahib, and
pressed me to take his advice.
He accepted the appointment
with genuine reluctance.
{To be continued)
Living is losing its peaks
The Atom and Mr. Sassafras
By OLAF RUHEN
MY friend Mr, Sassafras,
the mortician’s em-
balmer, has been worry-
ing about potatoes. Mr.
Sassafras, a round little man,
cheerful in speech and out-
look, and a singer, a whistler, a
rabid enjoyer of life, is not given
to worry. He has the confident
outlook of any man whose
future is assured. He loves the
world, and he loves people, and
when they are gone his best
ministrations are put forward to
the end that they may not be
forgotten. But now he is worried
about potatoes and The
Bulletin is to blame.
For the particular potatoes
which float across the uneasy
dreams to which the nights of
Mr. Sassafras are now devoted
are the pictured murphies which
were featured in early September
on The Bulletin’s “Man on
the Land” page to illustrate the
future of the atom. Mr. Sassa-
fras is now of the opinion that
the atom will achieve a future at
the expense of his own.
One potato, if you remember,
filled its skin in exactly the same
way as it had when it first came
out of the 1952 earth. The other,
following the due processes of
life, was wrinkled and worn,
adorned with sprouts making
ready to give life to the new
crop—and almost completely
inedible. And that radiocentric
professor, Harry Messel, set out
to show thereby the munificent
benefits of the atom; for the
sterile potato, frozen in its 1952
form, was completely market-
able ; and it had retained this
state simply by being exposed to
some radioactive by-products of
atomic fission, the rays from
which had presumably destroyed
the bacteria along with the
potato’s own inherent life.
“Two, three years at the
most,” said Mr. Sassafras,
moodily kicking the tyre of his
1938-model Singer. “That’s all
a man can count on —two-three
years. Then you’ll have every
mortuary in the country with a
bed of hot rocks and no em-
balmers. I can see it sticking
out a mile. They’ll advertise it
—Atomic Funerals —in neon.
“Mind you,” he said, “it’ll be
a second-rate job at that. Oh,
I don’t mean it won’t last. It
may well last. Very probably.
But all the things we have been
working on —natural-color dye
injected with the formaldehyde,
for instance —that’ll have to go
by the board. It was becoming
something of an art.” He walked
round to the other side of the
Singer, looked as though he
were going to kick the off-side
tyre, changed his mind and came
back.
“Seven - thousand years of
study, torn up by the roots,” he
complained. “No more personal
care. No more art in the job.
Just a soulless packing-away in
a box of hot rocks.” I made
sympathetic sounds, and he
nodded. “A cheap job. A mass-
production job. Mass-produc-
tion? I never thought I’d live to
see it in the game. Progress, they
say.” He walked away shaking
his head.
Mr. Sassafras has got me
worried —not for his personal
atomic problem but for my own.
For I liked the portent of the
two potatoes no more than did
he. And for this point of view
I have three very good reasons ;
or so they seam to me.
The first “is philosophic—a
mere acceptance of the idea that
life must live on life. Pei*haps
this is not strictly accurate. I
have heard, for example, of a
bug of sorts called Vibrio desul-
phuricans, a meaningless blob of
matter which in certain circum-
stances and under certain very
restricted conditions of life, can
apparently live on cast-iron
drain-pipes if these are em-
bedded in swampy black soil.
But Vibrio is a thing I cannot
see, and in all my personal ob-
servation, life lives on life. Ani-
mals and plants alike depend on
bacteria. Death gives place
merely to other forms of life.
Should there be foodstuffs com-
pletely sterile they become
infected anew by their prepara-
tion, or, indeed, by the very act
of eating.
I cannot but believe that
Nature meant it so. I am on good
terms with my germs. I admire
some of them intensely for being
indispensable to the manufac-
ture of many of the good things
of life —bread and cheese, and
beer and champagne, for
instance. Other germs, although
I can recognise no immediate
benefit to myself in their
presence, I take as they come.
I’m broadminded about germs,
and willing to believe good of
them until convinced otherwise.
From the little I have heard
of the activities of my white
corpuscles, I have evolved a
theory. I believe that by con-
stantly giving my own corpuscles
a chance to fight and dispatch
huge armies of ingested germs I
am keeping them fit. I welcome
germs. as sparring-partners for
my white corpuscles. I feel
ready for any that may come.
I do not particularly care to
have my food-inhabiting germs
destroyed.
And destroyed they are in that
sterile potato which, after two
years in a grain-store, has shown
no sign of development. Its
eyes are still embryo; its skin
has not toughened.
Look now at the healthy pro-
cesses of life in the other potato.
Its skin has developed to enable
it to carry out its true function
of establishing another genera-
tion. The sources of nourish-
ment in its interior have already
turned its eyes into developing
sprouts —and a little sunshine
will give them health. It is a
potato which has achieved
maturity, which is fulfilling its
function, and which is teeming
with life.
But if this philosophic argu-
ment cannot sway those who
would use the mighty forces of
nuclear fission on the spud, here
is a much better one; I say that
the preservation of food has
already gone much too far. We
are only a few years from the
period in which fish, for
instance, was eaten fresh. Since
then we’ve advanced. We have
come to a widespread use of the
freezer.
Before the freezer the fish you
ate was hurried straight from
the water —or you didn’t eat
fish. Now it comes from a re-
frigerated room, where it might
have been stacked anywhere
from 24 hours to three years. It’s
edible fish—but it’s not as good,
nor as tasty, nor as sustaining as
the fish straight from the water.
The potato that, following
comparatively cheap treatment,
will last for ever will also lower
living-standards. At least, it will
compress them. You will never
get a really bad potato —and
then, again, you will never get a
really fresh and good one.
After three good seasons a
man will still be eating three-
year-old murphies. After 10
years (with a Government full-
granary policy to keep the price
up) you will be eating five-year-
old potatoes.
I am not against the preserva-
tion of a reasonable quantity of
our food. But food-preservation
has now reached a stage where
wealthy oldsters who can afford
prepared foods as a regular
thing, who eat highly refined
breads and tinned fruits and
vegetables, suffer not infre-
quently, and sometimes die,
from vitamin-deficiency diseases.
Regrettable though this is,
almost the only significance of
such incidents is that they
dramatically present and
re-present the proposition that
life must feed on life.
There are other arguments.
Atomically preserved food
will be a direct invitation to
monopoly; to Government con-
trol of the food-flow from the
producer to the consumer. It
will channel labor from produc-
tion to distribution once again,
thus making its own small con-
tribution to food-shortage.
It will increase the power of
the middleman.
I cannot imagine that the pro-
cess itself will leave any harm-
ful radiation effects to pass from
the product to the consumer, but
conceivably it could introduce a
new danger to distribution-
workers.
But all these objections are
small, to my way of thinking,
in comparison with my third
point.
And here I become the
messiah of the full garbage-tin.
For me the utmost luxury con-
sists in eating the best food, in
the best season, at the best
moment.
It’s a long time since I could,
and did at will, casually pick up
a fresh egg to suck it. It’s about
the same period since I have
taken a couple of bites from
the sun-warmed rosy side of an
apple and thrown the rest away.
It would take a week’s wages if
I were to do as I have often
done —fry the roes of a couple
of dozen flounders in butter and
discard the bodies. For me, the
best living is inevitably attended
by waste.
That’s what I have to call it
today. I must eat up the last of
the meat, shred the outer leaves
of the lettuce, grate the rind of
the cheese, pick from the bowl
the banana that looks as though
it will be the first to go bad.
But in nature there is no
waste. Other animals, other
organisms live on what the first
discards. It goes to enrich the
earth. Plants feed upon the
humus that bacteria make of it.
The wealth is indestructible. And
it is true that to live on the whole
crop is to live worse than to live
on the best of it.
Living, for the average man
without a fortune, is losing its
peaks. We are too far away
from the crop as it is, and
atomic-preservation of food will
remove us further still.
I like to eat the best of the
earth’s fruits in their season, and
my enjoyment, more than my
tolerance, extracts the most of
their essential ingredients to my
benefit.
Therefore I say to hell with
the atom, and with all of its
curious propensities. There is
a danger, to me more frighten-
ing than that proposed by the
Bomb, the danger that we shall
all be reduced to a dreary level
of existence, supported by the
carefully preserved and sterile
remnants of the once-living fruits
of the earth, and devoted to the
maintenance of the processes
which will keep us at that
undesirable, unattractive and
unrewarding level.


A4B/AUb
ds
CO
&
wm
NORTH AMERICA
Travel Royal
AFRICA
xis m 01
mum
kii
ENGLAND
C S
ASIA
V^J
MIDDLE EAST
Fly on any of 1,000 Speedbird
routes across the world within .your
travel time and budget. Choose
from first-class luxury or tourist
travel comfort on many services.
Fly-in-a-hurry there and back—
or take a year, with stop-overs at
no extra air fare. Hotel accommo-
dation, meals and surface transport
provided at scheduled night stops.
WEST INDIES
Fully pressurized 4-engined air,
liners. See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help— no
charge.
Speedbtrd Services link Australia with
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India,
Pakistan, Middle East, Africa,
Europe, Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central and South
America, Bermuda.
fl MM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
FORMER SOVIET OFFICIAL
WARNS AGAINST “PEACE
ILLUSIONS”
Igor Bogolepov served the Soviet
Foreign Office for nearly twenty
years before escaping to the West.
His positions included those of
counsellor of the Foreign Office and
a member of Soviet delegations to
various international conferences.
Igor Bogolepov is well qualified to
deal with the “peaceful co-existence”
tactics of the Communist leaders.
In the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY an article by Bogolepov
warns against present “peace illu-
sions” and shows how they are part
of the Communist conspiracy. This
important article should be carefully
studied by all those desirous of
understanding Communist tactics.
The current issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY also provides other
factual reports and comment essen-
tial for Christian patriots.
Single issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
{Non-party, non-sectarian )
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
KIEV mom SAFE!
-// fiiFl ■
SANDERS
Correspondence. lo*ol c e •.
etotemenls. elc.. (lied In the
,■ * 5
I
"Sander*” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
period book oi relerence at
the end oi each month —* or
any other period.
dfs
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent » —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. ' ardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Dockc<; Book 00, (Aost.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE"?
Setting out the Western inter-
pretation of peaceful coexistence
between the West and the Soviet
empire, the “U.S. News and
World Report” notes that “Presi-
dent Eisenhower speaks of try-
ing for a modus vivendi for
living in peace with the Com-
munists, while still preventing
them from taking over large
areas by subversion, and despite
behavior ‘which we do not like.'
“U.S. Defence Secretary
Charles E. Wilson explains it this
way: To get along, we do not
have to approve all of each
other’s ways of doing things.
We must accept the sovereignty
of nations and their right to do
things in their own way in their
own countries.’
“Britain’s Foreign Secretary,
Anthony Eden, says: ‘We hope
these results [at Geneva] will
lead to better relations else-
where and we shall do what we
can to try and promote them.’
“Prime Minister Sir Winston
Churchill had said earlier: ‘I am
of the opinion that we ought to
have a try for peaceful co-
existence, a real good try for it.’
s view of the new
ief, is that of a
peace, in which
nor •• relations can be built
up o ne workable basis.
VVr - Communists have in
. istence,’ however, is
by some officials
ie officials insist, is
the Communist
»■ d - st its vast conquests,
nomies, they say,
reatly disrupted by
planning,’ must be
integrated vith the Russian
economy on a practical basis.
A firm hold, too, must be
fastened on newer conquests.
“More important, in this view,
is the time needed now for set-
ting up any future conquests.
Countries around the borders of
Russia already have been gobbled
up. Open aggression, even by
satellite armies, has become
dangerous. Infiltration during a
period of peace by Communist
fifth-columns, boring slowly into
countries next in the line of fire,
is the logical technique now,
these officials warn.
“The policy of coexistence, in
other words, is a calculated risk,
accepted in the hope that peace
can be maintained until more
‘normal’ relations with the Com-
munist world are established.
Whether it will bring lasting
peace or merely serve as a cover-
up for more Communist
conquests, only the planners in
Moscow and Peking know for
sure.”
As a representative British
view, “Manchester Guardian”
describes coexistence as
“properly, a policy of three
parts” :
“The critics of coexistence err
in supposing that armed strength
alone is enough to safeguard
peace. It is not. Tense situa-
tions, incidents of electrical
explosiveness and diplomatic
deadlocks from which neither
side can retire without serious
loss of face are created by a
stubborn insistence on arms and
national rights alone. Certainly
in seeking agreements the
Western Powers have to be like
the man from Missouri—they
have to see things before believ-
ing them, and they can take
nothing substantial on trust after
previous Communist trickery—
but they should seek just the
same.
“Equally, of course, to seek
agreement alone would be
insufficient. Arras for self-
defence are as important. There
are signs at present that the Com-
munist Powers are more inclined
to peaceful agreement than they
have been previously, but one
reason may well be that the
Western Powers are better armed
than at any time since 1945.
“The third part of coexistence
is alertness —alertness, above all,
to changes of Soviet tactics and
intention.”
Another U.S. point of view is
the personal comment of David
Lawrence, editor of the “U.S.
News and World Report”:
“Soon we will have three major
areas in the world—Germany,
Korea and South-East Asia —
where the Communist aggressor,
through no legal right of his own
but solely through the exercise
of military pressure, will have
obtained control of large
amounts of territory,
“Peaceful coexistence could
mean that the free world is
resigned indefinitely to the idea
of letting the Communists
maintain their control over
hundreds of millions of people
who live in bondage,
“But, on the other hand, the
words of the ‘Potomac Charter’
imply that Great Britain and the
United States are obligated to
continue unremittingly their
efforts to encourage the hopes of
the peoples of all the countries
behind the Iron Curtain so that
some day the millions of slaves
will be able to achieve for them-
selves the emancipation they
deserve.
“Peaceful coexistence should
never mean assent, tacit or other-
wise, to the policy of the criminal
rulers in Soviet Russia or any-
where else to continue their
enslavement of hundreds of
millions of persons.
“These are not legalistic but
moral issues. In some of our
cities, for example, there has
been at times a tendency to
accept the gangster domination
of certain districts, thus sanction-
ing a kind of ‘peaceful co-
existence.’ But an aroused
citizenry has usually in the end
refused to tolerate any such
partnership with evil. This is the
—New York “Herald Tribune’
ON THE ONE HAND
inexorable working of moral
law.
“For there can be no co-
existence between slavery and
freedom. Abraham Lincoln
expressed it aptly nearly 100
years ago when he said that
America could not ‘endure per-
manently half-slave and half-
free.’
“So it is with the world of
today. Our hearts must go out
constantly to the enslaved
peoples behind the Iron Curtain.
We must pledge ourselves to use
every measure short of war to
encourage their self-liberation.
We must never accept any part
of a coexistence doctrine which
would discourage the millions of
persons now in bondage as they
look to the free world for moral
help and inspiration.”
Migration
The first annual report of
Britain’s Overseas Migration
Board commented on the con-
cern felt in Canada and Aus-
tralia over the small number of
immigrants they are getting
from Britain. Australia is get-
ting only one Briton to each
non-Briton in its annual intake
of 100,000 migrants, while in
Canada’s tally of 165,000
migrants last year only one in
four was British.
“Canada,” as the “Toronto
Globe and Mail” points out,
“seems destined to have the same
experience this year. Of the
101,000 immigrants who entered
during the first seven months of
1954, just 30,000 were from
Britain. Italy alone, during that
seven-month period, supplied
Canada with half as many immi-
grants as the United Kingdom.
“Why are so few Britons
migrating from their own over-
populated country to other parts
of the Commonwealth which
want and need population? The
Overseas Migration Board finds
a feeling, particularly among the
Australians, that the British
Government is tacitly discourag-
ing such a movement; that it
regards emigrants, skilled wor-
kers especially, ‘almost as
deserters.’ Yet that Govern-
ment has just relaxed its
financial restrictions in such a
way as to make emigration
easier.
“We frankly cannot believe
that any British Government —
least of all one headed by Sir
Winston Churchill —would be so
shortsighted as to discourage
the filling-up of the Common-
wealth’s dangerously open
spaces, and by Britons as much
as possible. To the extent that
the Commonwealth becomes less
British in blood, it must inevit-
ably become less British in sym-
pathy. That process, long con-
tinued, could create serious ques-
tions for Britain in the matter of
trade, and still more serious ones
in the matter of defence.
“Nor can we believe that any
British Government would be so
blindly optimistic as to think that
the present full employment will
last. Make-work methods, im-
port quotas, foreign-exchange
control and back-orders left
over from the post-war buyers’
market are combining to obscure
the fact that Britain has a sur-
plus, not a shortage, of workers.
It remains a fact, demon-
strated by—if nothing else—the
low return for skilled labor.
“We would judge—and the
Overseas Migration Board found
the ‘more influential’ Common-
wealth Ministers expressing this
view—that the British Govern-
ment’s role is, for the moment,
purely passive. It is concerned
neither with obstructing nor
with assisting emigration. From
this it follows that the initiative
must come from the Common-
wealth members themselves,
notably Canada and Australia.
Should they not be urging a


Gillette
uPers.
Quick-feed DISPENSER
Quick-action RAZOR
•y}
W.
Y
V////W/XW/''
'•vTv / •’
mmw-Vt'%
/////«
wllllli^M
WM
A
m
m
m
V/.
i
!► Quick-feed Dispenser
few Blue Gillette Blade
sharpest in the world
Quick-action Razor
Speed from the word go. It’s the system that does
it. Twist the quick-action Gillette Razor’s open, a
new blade from the quick-feed Dispenser, twist
the razor’s closed ready for the fastest, smoothest
shave. And the 10-blade quick-feed Dispenser has
a built-in container for used blades. Start Superspeed
shaving today.
Quick-feed Dispenser loads
new blade in a flash
Container at back ends used
blade nuisance.
:
a
i
052 a
Always buy Blue Gillette Blades in a
Dispenser IT COSTS NO MORE!
10-blade DISPENSER 3'9
10-blade Packet . . 3 f 9
S-blade Packet . . I'lOi
'Good mornings' begin with Gillette
Commonwealth conference on
this highly important matter?
Britain could scarcely refuse it;
and at such a conference could
be compelled to give a statement
of her official position.
“There can be no protest about
the thousands of Italians, Ger-
mans and others- now coming
into Canada. Let there be, if
anything, more of them. But if,
as the Dominion Government
has frequently said, it is trying
to preserve Canada’s present
cultural balance, it should at the
same time be obtaining a large
increase in immigration from
Britain and, for Quebec’s bene-
fit, from France. The way we
are going now we are steadily
becoming less British, less
French and hence —if our history
means anything—less Canadian.”
To which might be added the
remarks of Sir Clifford
Heathcote-Smith, vice-chairman
of the British Migration Council.
In a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph” he commented:
“Here [in Britain] despite our
current full-employment honey-
moon, we cannot long maintain
our high standard of living with
our present population. Still less
can we do so if the Common-
wealth should no longer hold
together. Meanwhile, in this H-
bomb age the imperative need
for entirely new thinking and
action in view of our exceptional
vulnerability is stressed by every
authority.
“The whole Commonwealth
problem calls for concerted
action. But first there has to be
a build-up of ‘Commonwealth
morale.’ There is not enough
at present. A man will work for
and defend his own home spon-
taneously and, when called on
in a national crisis, his country.
But so far the conception of the
Commonwealth as his ‘unit,’ to
work for and defend, has not
penetrated the mind of the
ordinary man. Only a compara-
tively few see both the near red-
light and the grim need for
concerted action.
“A fundamental new joint
approach to the problem of the
Commonwealth’s combined
future must be made now. Fac-
ing unpleasant facts does not
make them worse. There will be
difficulties and obstacles galore,
but there will be much more that
will inspire. And the target is
the survival and security of the
whole Commonwealth.”
Russian Bomber
Strength
T c c
In a survey of the Soviet
heavy bombers, Londen
Economist notes that the last
official estimate of the size of the
Sov,et strategic bomber force
came from U.S. Chief-of-Air-
Staff General Twining, who, in
1951 rredited the Soviet’s
strategic Ifr-torce with about
l^ 81 fonr-englnefl Tupolev
oomoers
This aircraft, based on th
American Superfortress is be-
commg obsolescent, however
a . d ’ a ‘ liaximum speed o
350 miles an hour, is more-or-less
a sitting d uck tor je - g ei
The development of Soviet jet-
bombers to replace it is the
subject of considerable specula-
tion, particularly in the case of
the large four-jet bomber which
appeared in the fly-past over
Moscow last May Day and which
is mentioned in the following
“Economist” comment:
“It is certain that the
Russians have not, at the
moment, a large number of jet-
bombers in their squadrons com-
parable with the American six-
jet 847 ; but they have ample
numbers of medium bombers
comparable with the British
Canberra, such as the Tupolev
10 and the Ilyushin 28. In the
first five years after World War
11, the development of heavy jet-
bombers in Russia was slow,
despite the great help received
from German advisers. The
four-jet Ilyushin 16, though
ready for flight trials by 1946,
did not go into series produc-
tion. Since 1951, however, there
have been persistent reports of
the development of long-range
four- and six-jet bombers in the
Soviet Union, and the last six to
nine months have yielded more
precise information about them.
“There seem to be at least three
types of jet-bombers which may
shortly equip a number of the
Soviet long - range bomber
squadrons. First there is the
bomber with six turbo-prop
engines associated with the
Soviet designers Tupolev,
Ilyushin and Gurevich, who was
one of the MIG 15 design team.
This bomber has been named
the TUG 75, and photographs
of it were published last year.
Its top speed is unlikely to be
more than 425 m.p.h., so that it
is much slower than the
American 852. The TUG 75
may have a combat radius of
action of about 3000 miles, which
is comparable with the 852.
“Then there is the Ilyushin
bomber with four turbo-prop
engines which is reported to be
rather smaller than the eight-jet
852 and probably has a combat
radius of about 2500 miles.
“Finally there is the large
four-jet heavy bomber which
flew in the air display over
Moscow last May. This was a
pure jet and not a turbo-prop
machine, comparable in size with
the 852; for an aircraft of this
size, the engines would need to
be about 15,0001 b. thrust apiece.
If this is true, it means that the
Russians have a jet-engine as
powerful as any at present in use
or under active development in
Western air-forces. The top-
speed of this new Soviet four-jet
bomber may well be about 625-
650 m.p.h,—roughly as fast as
the American 852 or the big
British bombers.”
Asia's Rice
For the first time since the war,
South-East Asia’s rice-production
is increasing faster than its popu-
lation and, as London “Financial
Times” points out, the current
crop seems to have reached an
all-time high level.
Although it probably supports
more people than any other
cereal, rice, the “Financial
Times” continues, is of compara-
tively small importance in world
trade:
“Only about 5 per cent, of rice-
production enters into world
trade, compared with about 10
per cent, before the war. Before
the war the main rice-exporting
countries were Burma, Thailand
and Indo-China, and the leading
importers were China, India and
Japan. But today China is a net
exporter of rice, which is
exchanged for Ceylonese rubber
under a barter agreement.
“This year for the first time
India is also believed to have a
surplus of rice, though it is com-
mitted by a contract entered into
early this year to buying 700,000
tons from Burma at a price of
about £4B a ton. East Pakistan,
which is normally a deficit area,
is also reported to have a rice
surplus this year, partly owing
to a switch-over from jute culti-
vation. Indonesia, which has
been a big importer since the
war, has now virtually regained
self-sufficiency in rice as a result
of the recent harvest.
“The only large-scale importer
left in the area is Japan, which
had a very bad harvest owing to
exceptional weather conditions,
and which has been forced in
consequence to import over a
million tons, largely from the
U.S., Burma and Thailand.
“Barring a series of
catastrophic harvests,” the
“Financial Times” concludes, “it
would seem that the likely ten-
dency over the next few years is
for Asia’s rice surplus to increase.
While this will undoubtedly raise
economic problems for the
Governments of Thailand and
Burma, over the critical area of
South-East Asia as a whole there
can be little doubt that the
prospect of a full rice-bowl for
the peasant will be a potent
factor in making for stability and
resistance to encroaching Com-
munism.”
China's Big Four
T
China, comments Lond
“Time and Tide, now has
Constitution. Like all Lorn-
mumst Constitutions, it is a nne
document, guaranteeing me
Chinese almost 5S
*° r ’j “ = P
liberation f o •
“Mao Tse-tung has not, how-
ever> Been slavish in his imitation
0 £ t ß e Soviet prototype and has
• himself a position of much
« reater power £ authority than
any o ne “I 11 ?® the 1 new Consffim
wie * ds - Under the new Constitu
tion he has become Chairman of
the Chinese Republic, a post
equivalent to that of President, m
which h % WI J f
p °^ e . rs a ? ead of „
addltlon he becomes chairman
of the National Defence Council
and commander-m-chief of the
arme d forces and chairman of
the Supreme State Conference,
w hich is a sort of four-man
politburo. Since he is also chair-
man Q f the Chinese Communist
part y, he would appear to have
concentrated a good deal of
power in his own hands. No
Collective leadership' for him.
“The other members of the
‘Big Four’ are all holders of top
positions and close associates of
Mao. General Chu Teh is now
Vice-Chairman of the Republic
and automatic successor to Mao,
to whom he is reported to be
utterly devoted. Chou En-lai
becomes Premier of the State
Council and in charge of the
executive. Liu Shao-chi, the
party’s theoretician, is chairman
of the standing committee of the
National Congress, with appar-
ently wide powers of supervision.
“Of the four, Liu Shao-chi is
the only one who is reputed to
be a fanatical admirer of the
Soviet Union. For the rest, the
new organisation has a strongly
Chinese and above all military
appearance, but does not suggest
any major change in Chinese
policy in the near future,”
Seato—lndian View
An Indian view of Seato, as
quoted editorially by “Man-
chester Guardian”: “Seato
means nothing as a military
alliance against China. To
frighten the Chinese you must
be prepared to fight them
on the land. The recruitment of
Siam and the Philippines as allies
will not help you to do this,
Pakistan has made it plain that
it is not interested in fighting
China, but would like to invoke
the treaty against quite a different
country.
.-Thus ma king the
Seato alliance the Western
countries have been merely pull-
j ng f ace s at China, nothing more,
what then is the real effect of
Seato?
.. It u really a diplomatic
mo ve, not a military alliance;
and its aim—or at least the aim
of the Americans who inspired
it—is to break the unity of the
South Asian countries with
India. It is a n attempt, by
various inducements, to draw
some of these away from their
former partners a ’ d jmo the
American orbit.”
That, of course, as .the Man-
Chester Guardian notes, is an
extreme statement and distorts
the intention of Seato. But the
fact that many peope m India
and elsewhere sincerely interpret
Seato m this way means that
difficulties he ahead.


ENVELOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACEWINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6S x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
m all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
df
Samples and Prices
on application .
A O'Sullivan [g;
if Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 806 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
d
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
because she’ll never make port
again.”
Someone said, “I wish to
Gawd your rats would start
leaving you and then we’d get a
bit of peace in this fo’c’sle.”
“Peace!” he bellowed. “Ye’ll
all get peace when she goes down
and takes you with ’er. And a
bloody good riddance to the lot
of yer, 1 say.”
A chorus of abuse greeted him.
“Get to bed and shut up,” they
advised him, “One more squeak
out of you and you’ll be the first
to drown, because we’ll dump
you in the harbor right now.”
Well, if that was the way they
wanted to take his warning it
was O.K. with him. No one
could say he hadn’t done his
best to save them. Wearily he
sank on to his bunk and held his
head in his hands. The pro-
longed outburst had shaken him
up a bit. When he got his wind
he’d pack his duds and get
ashore. See who’d have the last
laugh then, when the Belyando
was posted overdue, presumed
lost. Old Shaggy Dodgson, safe
in Sydney, would be the sole
survivor.
He awoke to feel the lift and
fall of the fo’c’sle as the Bel-
yando thrust her nose into the
long ocean swell.
Even the modern sailor is
highly superstitious, and had
ai yc o fU — than old Shaggy
wit a. leserting rats the
Bely., Id have been a
very p that voyage. As
it wa the i joked about it for
a 1; r nd then forgot it.
To them . is just another of
Shaggy’s a: oholic episodes,
h’uny enou in itself, but not
to be cc ed with the time
they icscued im from the police
m Vi), and swung him
aboard in cargo net. The
winch* an i run him clear to
derrick ad before lowering
him to uic iioor of No. 2 hold
to sleep off the effects of his
spree, and the memory of a
snarling, struggling Shaggy
swinging aloft in a cargo-net
could always raise a laugh in
the fo’c’sle.
Even Captain Evans enjoyed
telling the story. “Reminded me
of my first berth as second-mate
on the West African coast when
we shipped a gorilla for the
London Zoo,” he declared.
TJUT however lightly his ship-
mates may have dismissed
the subject of the deserting rats
Shaggy never forgot it. Nor-
mally, once the sea air had
cleared the fumes of the last
port from his brain, he was a
cheerful shipmate, well able to
hold his own with the rough and
ready badinage of men years
younger than he.was. Now he
held himself aloof, morose and
silent.
Not only was he annoyed with
himself for being aboard a
doomed ship when all he’d had
to do was pack a few belongings
and walk ashore, but he was
annoyed with his shipmates for
doubting him, doubting the word
of a man who knew more about
the sea than they’d ever know.
He even began to wish the Bel-
yando would vindicate him by
foundering in mid-ocean. That
would show them!
In a normal voyage even the
officers would have noticed the
change in Shaggy, but this par-
ticular voyage was not normal
and the officers had their own
worries to contend with, princi-
pally because the Belyando left
Sydney with a list.
Admittedly the list was slight,
but trifling though it was it
caused quite a bit of friction
between the deck- and engine-
room-staffs. Mr. Stewart, the
first-mate, claimed that it was
an engineer’s list and that the
chief - engineer could easily
straighten the ship up by trim-
ming his tanks. The chief denied
responsibility and maintained
that the list was caused by in-
correct cargo-stowage for which
the first-mate was directly
responsible. Captain Evans, nor-
mally an easygoing master,
added fuel to the dispute by
saying it was a pity two sup-
posedly competent officers
couldn’t get a ship to sea on an
even keel.
To a landsman the dispute
may have sounded petty. What,
after all, did a list of a few
degrees matter? Surely it wasn’t
dangerous?
The answer is that, though the
list did not affect the Belyando’s
seaworthiness, it did matter. It
affected the temper of every man
on board. Even under ideal con-
ditions the Belyando was a bad-
steering ship and the list aggra-
vated her fault to an extent that
caused endless friction between
helmsmen and watch-keeping
officers. The chief-engineer did
nothing to improve matters by
complaining that the deck staff
was doubling his fuel consump-
tion by letting the ship wander
all over the ocean. Naturally
his staff backed him up.
Ail this happened in moderate
weather, with an easy, following
sea. What, everyone asked,
would the old sea-cow be like if
she struck a really heavy head-
sea? Even without the list she
was at her worst in those condi-
tions.
Before they were halfway
across the Coral Sea she showed
them.
Shaggy was at the wheel the
night the weather took a sudden
turn for the worse, and despite
his personal worries he was
steering a perfect course. But
then old Shaggy was no ordinary
helmsman. Not once in his five
years in the Belyando had he
complained of her steering.
Never, even in the most adverse
conditions, had he been known
to let her swing more than a
few degrees off her course. His
gift, his ability to feel and antici-
pate a ship’s needs, was an in-
definable something that is born
in a man and can rarely be
acquired. Nor can it ever be
satisfactorily explained.
“You feels it through yer
feet,” Shaggy had once said, pos-
sibly coming as near to the right
answer as anyone could come.
“And if yer relieve the wheel
with a pair of flamin’ great boots
on, ’ow can yer get the feel of
’er?”
At sea he invariably went
barefooted; and so calloused
were his feet that he could stand
unconcernedly on a steel deck in
the tropics until his shipmates
declared they could smell frying
steak.
When he handed over the
wheel and reported the course
at midnight that night the third-
mate asked, “How is she.
Shaggy? Getting a bit hard to
handle?”
“She didn’t give me no trouble,
sir,” Shaggy answered, despite
the fact that wind and sea had
risen considerably since the pre-
vious helmsman complained that
“she was trying to shove her
nose up her own stern.”
HAWN found the Belyando
■7 wallowing before a grey
following sea, yawing wildly, at
times more than twenty degrees
off her course. It found a wor-
ried and distinctly irritable Cap-
tain Evans standing with the
first-mate on the bridge,
“Blast it, Mr. Stewart,” he
growled. “Didn’t this bunch of
longshoremen ever learn to
steer? We’ll be broaching-to if
they don’t do better than this.”
“She’s a fair cow to handle
with this list, sir,” Stewart said,
“Old Dodgson is the only one
who can keep her on her course,
and I’m blowed if I know how
he does it.”
Captain Evans snorted.
“They’ll have to do better. This
sea’s going to get a lot worse
before the day is out, and you
can’t expect old Dodgson to say
at the wheel all day and perhaps
half the night, too.”
When Shaggy relieved the
wheel at eight-o’clock the gale
was tearing the tops off the
waves and hurling the spray
along the entire length of the
Belyando’s decks. Ten minutes
later Captain Evans gave the
order to heave-to. He should
have done it an hour ago, he
knew, but he wanted his best
helmsman at the wheel when he
brought her round.
The third-mate made the log
entry, “0810. Hove to in gale-
force wind and heavy sea. Vessel
under master’s orders.”
He might well have added,
“and in the hands of Shaggy
Dodgson,” for the old fellow was
handling her with apparent ease.
“Can you see the general run
of the seas, Dodgson?” Captain
Evans asked when she was safely
round.
“Yes, sir!” Even in those
two words Shaggy managed to
convey the impression that he
was surprised and rather peeved
at such a foolish question. Rain
and spray were streaming down
the bridge windows, but the
snarling combers were clearly
visible as they bore down in
line after grey line to burst
thunderously over the fo’c’sle
head.
“Good. Just keep her headed
up into it.” Captain Evans
sounded quite relieved. He had
not been questioning the general
visibility; he’d been wondering
how Shaggy could see anything
through the tangle of drooping
eyebrows. “If I had a pair of
scissors up here I’d clip the
infernal things off,” he muttered.
Politely the third-mate asked,
“What did you say, sir?”
“Nothing,” Captain Evans
snapped. “Nothing at all. See
if the glass is still falling.”
It was. It continued to fall
all morning, and as it fell the
wind and sea rose.
At ten-o’clock, when a sea-
man named Larson relieved
Shaggy, Captain Evans said,
“Just stand by for a while in case
you’re needed, will you, Dodg-
son?”
It wasn’t an order, simply a
polite request.
Larson was in trouble right
from the start. Fully realising
the danger of letting the ship
swing beam-on to the seas he
was nervous. Yet he did his best.
Sweat streamed down his wor-
ried face and soaked through his
shirt as ha spun the wheel first
one way and then the other.
But even with Captain Evans
standing beside him, barking
“Meet her, man, meet her,” or
“Ease her, ease her,” he could
not keep her from yawing.
Less than an hour after he
took over she got away from
him. Captain Evans knocked
him aside and took the wheel
himself. It was a futile gesture,
he realised. The wheel was
hard over and the ship was refus-
ing to answer.
With a booming crash a great
sea boarded her amidships. It
thundered across the decks,
swept cooking gear and cook
from the galley, and cascaded
through the fiddley into engine-
room and stokehold. A few
more like that, they all knew,
and she’d be finished.
And then, with loose and
shattered gear clattering across
her reeling decks, the Belyando
began to answer her helm. She
was fighting her way slowly
round, heading up to meet the
threatening seas, and Captain
Evans was yelling:
“Shaggy! Shaggy! Come and
take this blasted wheel!”
The old fellow sprang
forward, a faint grin acknow-
ledging the unconscious flattery
implied by his captain’s use of
his nickname.
AT noon he was still at the
wheel. Captain Evans
reckoned the storm had reached
its maximum height by then.
Certainly he had never seen a
worse sea.
And the ship, despite her
anguished creaks and groans,
was standing up to it well, thanks
solely to one man. There was
not a man on board who didn’t
appreciate that fact, not one who
didn’t realise that this was going
to be an endurance test between
old Shaggy and the storm, with
all the odds in favor of the
storm.
They fed him as he stood
there at the wheel, bare feet
spread wide apart Uo balance
his body against the heave and
roll of the ship. The second-
mate had rescued a half-drowned
cook from the scuppers, but the
galley was gutted and the fire
swamped.
Yet Shaggy got a hot drink.
He was the only man on board
who did. The chief steward
brewed a mug of coffee on the
captain’s private spirit-stove and
Captain Evans himself added a
generous measure of rum.
Anxiously watching the old
fellow gulp the fiery liquid he
asked, “How much longer do
you think you can hang out.
Shaggy?”
“I can ’ang out all day,
Cap’n,” Shaggy answered
glumly. “But it won’t make
much difference. She’ll go down
just the same.”
“What the devil do you mean,
man?” Obviously Captain
Evans hadn’t heard the story of
the rats.
“The rats left ’er in Sydney.
I seen ’em meself. I warned the
others but they wouldn’t take
no notice of me. You can’t
fool a ship’s rat, I sez. And I
was right.”
“You carry on the way you
are and we’ll fool ’em all,”
Captain Evans soothed. “You’re
doing fine.”
Old Shaggy shook his grizzled
head knowingly, but he carried
on. Though firmly convinced
that nothing could save this ship
he was far too good a seaman
to give anything but his best.
When she went down no one
could blame old Shaggy.
For fifty years, in most of the
world’s seaports, Shaggy had
done his best to ruin a splendid
physique and an iron constitu-
tion. By rights he should have
been either dead or so crippled
with rheumatics and gastric
ulcers as to be useless. Yet for
hour after hour he stood there,
peering out through his
ridiculous eyebrows, hands
lightly gripping the spokes of
the wheel, doing with apparent
ease the job no other man
aboard could have done. To the
onlookers it seemed as though
he was made of some indestruct-
ible material that neither time
nor misuse could affect.
All day he remained at the
wheel and not once did he look
like letting the ship take charge.
In his gnarled old hands she
was pliant and docile. Every
hour he gulped the hot coffee
and rum that Was thrust into
his eager paw.
And as the hours dragged by
the mournful expression on his
face gave away to a smile of
satisfaction. It wasn’t that he
was kidding himself he was
saving the ship. Oh no ! He
knew that nothing could save
her. But here was he, old
Shaggy Dodgson, sucking up the
captain’s grog, being waited on
by the captain as though he
were the managing-director of
the company! The first-mate
was treating him with the
deference due to the master of
the Queen Mary. The for’ard
hands, the young pups who had
doubted him and jeered at him,
were now looking on him as
their saviour.
What a way for an old shell-
back to finish up! Why, when
the ship took her final plunge
he’d go out in what these high-
falutin blokes would call a
veritable blaze of glory,
TT was after dark when they
relieved him. For more than
an hour he had been holding
the ship on a compass course,
his lined old face looking, in
the upward glow of the binnacle
light, like some tired but happy
old gargoyle. Wind and sea had
fallen until Captain Evans felt
the ship would be safe in the
hands of a relieving helmsman.
They had to practically prise
Shaggy’s hands from the wheel
and carry him to the chartroom
settee.
“Put a pillow under his head
and spread a blanket over him,”
Captain Evans ordered. “And
give him as much rum as he
feels like. Lord knows he’s
earned it.”
But for once in his life Shaggy
declined a drink. Waving the
bottle impatiently aside he
peered uncertainly up at
Captain Evans and croaked:
“D’ye mean to say we’re all
safe? The ship ain’t goin’
down?”
“As safe as we’d be in dry
dock, Shaggy, thanks to you,”
Captain Evans told him.
“But the rats? I tell yer I
seen ’em!”
“Probably full to the back
teeth when he came aboard and
thought he saw them, sir,” the
second suggested.
The first-mate’s face lit up
with a gleam of understanding.
“Hold on a minute,” he put in.
“If Shaggy was abreast of No. 1
hold he probably did see rats
leaving it. A forty-gallon drum
of disinfectant slipped out of a
sling and burst down there the
day before we sailed. I left a
corner of the hatch open to let
the. fumes out. The stink was
enough to drive any self-
respecting rat ashore.”
“Honor,” Captain Evans
announced, “is vindicated.
That’ll teach these youngsters to
doubt the word of an
experienced seaman, eh,
Shaggy?”
But Shaggy was dropping off
to sleep, a smile of utter content
on his face.


AUSTRALIA? GREATEST
TRACTOR VALUE!
In Fordson Majors keen price
alt these “extras” are
STANDARD EQUIPMENT
Power take-off • 2-Speed Belt Pulley
• 12 Volt Starting Equipment
Electric Lights • Adjustable Track Front Axle
• Independent Turning Brakes
• Fully Adjustable Drawbar • Tachometer
• “Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor
Radiator Shutters and protective chaff screen
• Large weatherproof toolbox
KEROSENE MODEL DIESEL MODEL
With pneumatic tyres
£9lB
with pneumatic tyres
£1077
Optional equipment—Hydraulic
lift and 3-point linkage only
£76
More Farm-Right
Features than
any other tractor
Latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines with choice of kerosene or
diesel power .. . 6-speed transmission
. . . “touch-control” hydraulics . . .
3-point linkage . . . range of “Crown
and matched implements and equip-
ment . . . and many more advances
in working versatility and economy.
Feature by feature, your Fordson
Dealer will show you why Fordson
Major is easily Australia’s greatest
tractor value.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
£ *-
;? T i l
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
W LATEST 1
r PRODUCT OF
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST NAME
. IN POWER
FARMING A
rafirafpmiEa
FM4O-44A
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 62 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Adventure-fiction stories, 1000 to
2000 words, with Northern outbade
setting, for North Queensland maga-
zine. Payment on publication.—
To buy, copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm, published by The Bulletin
in 1946.-5929.
Words in German of the song T he
Happiest Day of My Life.” —5930.
Writer engaged on life and work
of the Australian artist Will Dyson
would appreciate newspaper clippings,
references in books, arid other details
relating to his career and art.—5931.
To buy copy of book Farm and
Station Devices. —5927.
To buy copy of Puppets and the
Puppet Stage by Beaumont. —5926.
Information Sought
(i) In which of his works did Lenin
announce the aim of Communism as
world domination ? (2) Was Lenin
an atheist ?
(1) In The War Programme of the
Proletarian Revolution (chap. I) he
states: “Only after we have over-
thrown, finally vanquished and
expropriated the bourgeosie of the
whole world, and not only of one
country ” In the same paragraph
he refers to “the fierce class-struggle
and class-wars [Lenin’s italics] that
are 'neecssary for the achievement
[of the final overthrow of capitalism].”
As proof that Lenin never believed
that revolution should be confined to
Russia is this statement in Two Tactics
of Social-Democracy in Democratic
Revolution, “ we must issue prac-
tical slogans not only for the con-
tingency of the revolution being car-
ried into Europe but also for the
purpose of carrying it there” (Lenin's
italics). In a speech, Oct. 26, 1917,
included in VoJ. II of his Selected
Works, he wrote “The complete reali-
sation of our ideas depends solely on
the overthrow of the whole capitalist
system.” In The State Lenin says
“ we shall destroy all exploitation
[i.e., destroy capitalism—synonymous,
in his opinion, with exploitation]. And
when the possibility of exploitation no
longer exists anywhere in the world
....” In The Proletarian Revolution
and the Renegade Kautsky, he states
that “Bolshevism has popularised
throughout the world the idea of the
‘dictatorship of the proletariat,’ ”
adding that “Bolshevik tactics have
assisted the growth of world revolu-
tion.” (2) Joseph McCabe’s A
Rationalist Encyclopedia acclaims
him an atheist.
* * * *
Some particulars about Australian
pastoralist Jimmy Tyson ?
Born at the Cowpastures on Apl.
11, 1823, he was the son of a Cum-
berland yeoman, William Tyson, who
arrived in Sydney in 1820 and acquired
a small farm. James Tyson at first
assisted his father, then worked on
various stations. He began his
pastoral career as working overseer to
the Vine brothers of Morton Park
(near Camden, N.S.W.). In 1846 he
joined his brother William in form-
ing Gunambill station on the Billa-
bong (N.S.W.), but their venture was
not successful and, omitting to renew
their licence for Gunambill, they lost
control of the station. In 1851
Tyson’s luck changed. Droving herds
of Riverina cattle down to the Bendigo
gold-diggings, he opened a butchers
shop there, and in four years had
saved enough to buy several Riverina
runs, among them Deniliquin (125,000
acres) and Juanbong (64,000 acres).
Soon afterwards he bought Heyfield
in Gippsland, Felton on the Darling
Downs (where he made his headquar-
ters) and several others along the
Warrego. In 1883 he offered a loan
of £500,000 to Queensland Premier
Mcllwraith to construct a railway-
line from Charleville to the Gulf; in
1892, at a time of financial depression,
he took-up £250,000-worth of Treasury
bills. Probably as a result Mcllwraith
appointed him to the Queensland
Leg. Council. He died at Felton on
Dec. 4, 1898. His estate realised
£2,500,000. He had managed all his
properties personally down to the
smallest detail. Over 6ft. 3in. tall,
without ostentation and affectation,
he became a legend in eastern Aus-
tralia in his own lifetime. He is
celebrated in Paterson’s “T.Y.S.O.N.
♦ * * *
(2) Some information on the glacial
era in Britain ? (2) Did man live in
Britain then ?
(1) In the world’s geological history
there have been four main Ice Ages,
but it is only the last (and greatest) of
which we really know very much. The
first two occurred before there was
any life at all on the land; as far as
is known, northern Europe was not
so much affected by either as were
North America and the southern
hemisphere. The third period of
intense glaciation, the Permian,
appears to have been confined to the
southern parts of the globe. The
Pleistocene Ice Age, the last one,
lasted some 500,000 years (the earth
is only now recovering from its
effects). It is estimated that in north-
ern Europe the ice covered 2,000,000
square miles. The much-enlarged
glaciers in Scandinavia flowed over
and filled-in the North Sea, and in the
British Isles this advancing ice joined
the local mountain-glaciers ; the
whole of the islands became ice-
covered except the south of England
below the line joining the Thames-
Severn estuaries. The Irish Sea and
part of Ireland were overwhelmed,
and the ice passed over the summit ot
Snaefell (2034ft.), the highest point on
the Isle of Man. (2) It is now be-
lieved that man lived in Britain before
and during this Ice Age. It is un-
likely that he managed to survive m
the regions where the glacial condi-
tions were the severest, but it seems
certain that the southern ice-free parts
remained habitable. The Ice Age is
variously estimated at ending m
Britain from 50,000 B.c. down to
10,000 B.c.
Brief Answers
H.L.: A new edition of Who’s Who
in Australia is in preparation and
should be published some time after
the middle of 1955. The price will
be £2 12s. 6d. in advance, and £3 3s.
post publication... .W.J.M.; Write
Timber Development Association of
Australia, 19-23 Bligh-street, Sydney.
E.W.K.: Write Secretary, Aus-
tralian Committee for Cultural Free-
dom, Box 4714, G.P.O., Sydney
T.B.: From Government Astronomer,
Sydney Observatory, Dawes Point,
Sydney R.K.: Murder for Profit
by William Bolitho, with an introduc-
tion by John Arlott, published by
Dennis Dobson Ltd., London....
A.V.: The Vimy Ridge Memorial to
Canadian soldiers killed storming the
ridge, April 9-10, 1917, was unveiled
by King Edward VIII in 1936....
W.McL.: The Khyber Pass was twice
crossed by the British Army during
the first Afghan war in 1841 and
1842, and again in the second Afghan
War in November, 1878... .C.ix. •
A. G. Stephens and S. O’Brien col-
laborated in the production of a
manuscript “Material for a Diction-
ary of Australian Slang. Ine
manuscript was never jiublished and
is in the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
..M.J.C.: References to Daniel
Henry Deniehy will be found in The
Australian Encyclopedia, Perciyal
Serle’s Dictionary of Australian
Biography, E. A. Martin’s The Life
and Speeches of Daniel Henry Deniehy,
G. B. Barton’s The Poets and Prose
Writers of New South Wales,' and
Literature in New South Wales, in W.
B. Dailey’s introduction to a reprint
of Deniehy’s The Attorney-General of
New Barataria, “The Sydney Morning
Herald” of October 27, 1865, The
Bulletin of September 17, 1898; and
in article by Aubrey Halloran in
“Journal and Proceedings of the
Royal Australian Historical Society,”
vol. xii, pages 341-5... .R.S.T.: U)
and (2) There are as yet no definite
plans for the projected Radium Insti-
tute in Sydney. (3) Write Secretary,
Cancer Council, c/o N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Public Health, 52 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
8.M.: Merely mildly amusing
J.F.K.: It will not be appearing in
our Christmas number A.M.P.:
The junior typist is still weeping....
P.G.: Pleasant, but it didn’t quite
make the grade... .H.S.W.: Those
geese are flying home A.P.: It
goes nowhere... .W.W.: Sample of
your “gripping fiction” didn’t grip.
D.C.: We yawned through that
dream A.V.: Have run across that
lonely old joker before E.C.: Not
hanging that farmer’s daughter in our
gallery of heroines J.D.K.: We
said goodbye to Andrew A.S.:
You have still to get a foot on the
first rung of the ladder M.T.8.:
Try it on a daily that likes that sort
of thing N.H.8.: Too melo-
dramatic E.L.T.: Left it whistling
away in the basket... .A.C.8.: Try it
elsewhere J.W.: Slight and ob-
vious... .J.S.W.: It might stand a
chance with some other newspaper.
C.G.: The construction is some-
what jerrybuilt... .D.R.8.: The hall
is bare and empty N.W.M.: Send-
ing Emma back to the creek
V.O’C.: All it did was to put us to
sleep J.M.L.: Buried it in the
basket H.C.S.: We have enough
snakes on the premises at the moment,
thanks S.R.: It still has us puz-
zled... .P.E.: Are you sure it was
the hurricane-lamp, not the whisky?
D.R.P.: Can’t see Mr. Willisham
walking into our pages....
A.S.H.: You signal your punches too
much.... R.E.: Not without interest,
but still a lightweight E.L.H. : It
was heavy going A.C.R.: Off our
beat M.T.8.: Keep on trying
R.R.K.: Somehow cricket and gang-
sters don’t seem to go together
A.P. (Lameroo): Don’t listen to
nurses who advise you to “write for
the press” F.C.: She is still in the
corner seat C.G.C.: That plot is
an old and familiar friend J.C.:
We had an idea there was a body
under the lilacs M.C.: There have
been more exciting horse-races....
F.L.: What about the story-reader’s
burden? A.D.: Don’t toss the
towel in yet awhile E.M.L.: When
last seen the goat appeared to be con-
tented in the w.p.b K.G.L.: It
won’t buy you any Christmas ducks.
J.H.: Dreadful....J.R.: Clumsy.
N.S.: If all our readers were
romantic teenagers we might have
given it a second glance... .R.A.S.:
Not for The Bulletin, and can’t
think of any other possible takers....
R.S.: We had an idea it would finish
like that R.M.E.: A little too
obvious G.W.; Only the beginning
of a story K.Y.: We left it....
M.D.: A depressing little effort.


'PHENOVIS' Brand of Phenothlaztn*
ANNOUNCING
FIDE PARTICLE POWDER
For the first time on the world market-a
fine particle dispersable powder is
available as
SUPERFINE
PHENOVIS
POWDER
• Finely Ground, at least 80%
Very Fine Particles.
O Cheaper.
A Easy to mix.
A Remains suspended.
A Free flowing.
ornmsnt mmf
' <?.
Efficient Drench for WORMS IN SHEEP
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
<PHE.29X.705.
LIFEGUARD CIGARETTES
Obtain your supplies of good-
quality cigarettes—Cork or Plain
—priced at 80/- per 1,000.
Lifeguard Tobacco, Ltd.,
Box 31, P. 0., Chippendale, N.S.W.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows* Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
£
he attach • s
en t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS' I
BOY” '
ROTARY
SCYTHE
IES
rs
»
i
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you’.
N.S.W.: GrazcOs Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
VIC.: Grazcoa Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8001.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAB.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S, Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian ents: „-
HDBEEX STOKES & CO..
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
VISIT TO YASS
of my country friends
iYA feel that city people (such as
myself) are heedless of their
problems. To some extent they
may be right. But I don’t think
most city-dwellers are quite as
unsympathetic or as uninterested
as country folk love to believe.
And if they are, perhaps the
blame can be spread a little.
My experience (gained from a
succession of holidays in the
country) is that country people
will talk about their problems for
a while, then switch: “But let’s
not talk shop.” What about
such-and-such a film, play,
concert? The H-line, fashions,
city gossip. Thus, anyway, the
women. Their husbands have a
tendency to brush off questions
about stock, soil, water, with a
sort of tolerant impatience: “No
need to be polite! It’s no use to
you to know that.” Now, grant-
ing the proposition that what
happens in the country is felt
everywhere in Australia, sooner
or later, there seems to be some-
thing wrong with both attitudes;
riosity about the
country in the city, the discourag-
ing of such curiosity, when it is
manifested, by country people.
ig I have noticed:
Apart from the more obvious
.id >lants, most of my
country /fiends are as ignorant
I v natural features of
their districts —“that outcrop in
die paddock there is supposed to
be of geo gical interest, but
don’t ask me why!”
f sp j last week of Sep-
tember—before the October rain
—in the Yass (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. Any observations below
are for the benefit of people like
myself—ignorant city types who
read this page in an effort to
plug gaps in their knowledge.
Knowing country people will be
kind if they give it a miss.
Why is it, by the way, that a
person can admit ignorance of
banking, say, or engineering, and
not be considered quite a fool—
yet hesitate to expose a lack of
knowledge of farming, an
occupation every bit as tech-
nical, to farmers? The thought
is prompted by a question I asked
recently concerning the breeding
habits of sheep, which provoked
much merriment. Why? It
wasn’t really humorous. Surely
the number of rams used to a
flock of ewes is not irrelevant to
the whole economics of the busi-
ness? Isn’t it likely the optimum
number would vary with season,
district, type, age, nutrition and
so on? Likewise, isn’t it possible
that the traditional percentages
(I gathered, through laughter,
that they are arrived at more by
tradition than by scientific pre-
cedent) are sometimes wrong?
Looking back, I think it a pretty
sensible question from a city
person. The answer seems to
involve a tidy amount of money,
one way or the other, in terms
of lambs dropped. But no! My
innocent question almost caused
one young scion of a golden-
fleece family (a great hand with
the cups of tea and sponge-cake)
to choke.
There’s been a drought, as
everyone knows. From Goulburn
on, the eye notes dry and drier
land above the level of the rail-
way. At Yass they’re feeding
sheep, and have been for some
time. One doesn’t expect it,
somehow, of Yass, where, in a
normal spring, the green rolling
hills seem to sum up, not simply
the age-old renewal of life, but
the strength and security of one
of the State’s favored pastoral
districts. A contrast to the red
western plains, which leap with
green, too, in season, but not so
triumphantly. The western green
is a thin pelt, and one is always
aware of the raw bones beneath
it. A tremulous green ; whereas
the other has the assurance of a
flourishing institution.
The hills around Yass were
bleached. Even good rains
won’t help now, I was told. No
one gave me any very satisfactory
answer when I naively asked
“Why?”—city types will just
have to accept that as axiomatic.
Cream can’t be bought in Yass
—not, perhaps, a serious de-
privation, but a sign of the con-
dition of the feed. The town
water-supply, they say, is fair,
but the reticulation - system
seems to be inadequate, and taps
were failing in the high parts of
the town. Someone volunteered
the information that there hadn’t
been sufficient rain over the past
two years to fill dams on pro-
perties. On the other hand, wind-
mills are cropping up every-
where since artesian-water has
been found in some parts of the
district. The river is low—often
a string of pools filled with weeds
and frogs’ spawn—but, on the
whole, it flows. And so do all the
confusing tributaries, or elbows,
or sisters, of the Murmmbidgee
I saw, from Yass to Canberra.
The stock, to my inexpert eye,
seemed in fair condition; some
of the sheep were fat. But there
seemed to be more crows around,
and hawks hovering over the
paddocks, than I had ever seen
before.
Driving down to Brindabella
the scenery slipped back into the
familiar. Some balladist wrote
of “snowbound Brindabella in
the glory of the year.” There
was rio snow, of course, and the
mountain was dusty, but here,
and at Jugiong and Gundagai,
there was‘ meaning to the rest of
the phrase. At Gundagai, the
other day, some land was sold
for £57 an acre ; river-flats come
high, but this was a hill block.
What would the same land have
been worth before the war?
The road down the valley is
narrow, and plunges in places—
how do the drivers of the heavy
transports manoeuvre their long
loads?—and at Brindabella the
water flowed strong, pasture was
high and green, the sheep (not
then shorn) looked prosperous.
The feeling of unseasonable
things, of omens and portents
and the red plains marching into
the hills, fell away.
Well, what I saw was the tradi-
tionally “safe” country of N.S.W,
If things aren’t quite as bad as
newspaper reports sometimes
lead one to think, they are prob-
ably quite bad enough. On the
whole, people seemed pessimistic,
and looking at short, yellow
grass, dusty tracks and dry
creeks, I could see their point of
view. But in the town, back at
Yass, I saw a shop-window dis-
playing articles designed to cheer
the wives of grieving landowners
—little things like a 30gns. satin
housecoat, set amid a collection
of the most expensive nylon
underwear I have seen in a long
time. This, mark you, not in the
window of the shop generally
considered the town’s “exclusive”
one, but in another. Makes one
think.
One of the thoughts that occur
to a casual observer is that shops
in country towns depend on a
relatively small population with,
apparently, relatively large
amounts of money to spend:
certainly few city people could
afford such gorgeous gewgaws.
Another is that fewer satin
housecoats, new American cars,
trips to Sydney and the like, over
the past decade, would probably
mean more and better dams, and
their like ; and less present grief.
It’s just a thought. Bearing in
mind that all this worry was
caused by a shortage of water, I
was interested to see a stack of
plastic machine-guns, from which
the lucky children of Yass will be
able to fire 5000 squirts of the
precious commodity, from one
refill, in the coming summer.
They are 17s. 6d. each.
FLORENCE KING.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
For some time past I have been drawing attention to
the late rains of September and the general rains of October.
They came, and the situation improved. But according to
bur records there may not be much more rain, except a
barely possible Uranian fall in November. Otherwise a
general decline for some time (except in the Tropics,
where there is some danger of severe cyclones ) seems
likely.
I may point out that in 1944 the Long-range Weather
Forecasting Trust of Sydney published my prediction of
these October general rains; so 1 think I can fairly claim
it as a long-range forecast.
Travelling Stock
In view of recent articles arid
reports about cruelty to sheep,
and especially lambs, in transit,
a few points on the handling of
sheep would not be out of place.
If owners, drovers and others
kept these “don’ts” in mind,
something would be gained:
1. —Don’t move the lambs
from the paddock until just
before trucking.
2. —Don’t hurry the lambs into
the truck.
3. —Don’t drive the lambs by
themselves, allow 20 or 30 ewes
to accompany them to prevent
“breaking.”
4. —Don’t truck lambs when
overheated.
5. —Don’t truck them when
thirsty.
6. —Don’t truck them until it
is absolutely necessary,
7. —Don’t poke them into the
truck with a stick.
8. —Don’t allow dogs to worry
or bite them.
9. —Don’t cram them into a
small truck.
Because the flesh of young
sheep bruises easily and quickly,
fat-lambs should be handled as
little as possible at all times.
I have seen great dark-colored
bruises on lambs’ carcasses
where they have been grabbed
by the wool. Be careful when
catching lambs at marking-
many carcasses are rejected
because animals have big joints
and torn muscles caused by
rough handling at lamb-marking
time.
Sheep which have to travel
many hundreds of miles to the
saleyards should arrive at least
12 hours prior to the sale to
enable them to be rested and
watered before being drafted
into the various yards for sale.
A comparison between stock
on arrival and those that have
been rested will show the benefits
of this resting.
J. S. BOARDMAN.
Grazing Habits
“Eellam”: If Daisy is an aver-
age cow, she spends about 8*
hours a day grazing That
means she ’ s eating gr ass for 40
p er cent, of the time she’s in the
p addo ck, according to research-
workers Freer and Pearce, who
watc hed the herd at the State
Research Farm (Werribee, Vic.)
aU day and night t 0 get their
information. An intensive graz-
j ng period after the afternoon
milking ceased abruptly after
sunset,
Apart from two or three hours
after midnight, there was no
more grazing until the morning
milking. The morning grazing
period lasted longer and tailed
off gradually until the afternoon
milking.
The Dorper
“Phoongyee”: This new
breed, from an original Dorset
Horn ram-Persian ewe cross,
swept the board at the recent


Missing Friend
ESTATE OF JOHN THOMAS MORRIS.
WILLIAM FREDERICK MORRIS, who
was bom at Carlton, Victoria, on 10th
May, 1908, is entitled to the whole of the
above estate. Will the said WILLIAM
FREDERICK MORRIS, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
fds
THE
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
This
NO
NO
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed .
self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
FLIES . . . Np WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
dsf
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
' " ■"" DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
.w
ENEW
ds
THE LOWEST-
PRICED
GEAR-
DRIVEN
SWING
SAW
Yjojl Melbourne
Can be bought for Deposit
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis.
fsd
You get "the lot" - LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS'
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
In-builf gear reduction
'fa Finger-tip control -fa Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle Drives up to 36" blade
■fa Spindle mounted on ball
bearings Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4Vz hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name
Address ——
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
<7 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: IF 4209 ....
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
.BRANCHES
TELEGRAMS: MOBIICO, SYDNEY
- - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
fat-stock show at Johannesburg,
in all classes for mutton-sheep,
from lambs up. No good for
wool. Our native-bred Persians
(brought here by Arab slavers,
probably, long before there was
a Union of South Africa) are the
fat-tailed type (tails never cut),
white with black faces, or
brownish with black faces. The
fleece, if you can call it that, is
more like a shaggy dog’s over-
coat than a sheep’s. The Dorset
Horn, of course, is familiar to
Australians.
The new breed is a very fine
mutton-sheep, under our con-
ditions. I don’t know what the
reaction of your Merino-men
would be to the importation of
sheep with the retrograde wool-
qualities of the African parent
in the fleece. The breed (or, per-
haps, some other combination of
the hardy Persian with a Down
breed) might be suitable for
some Australian conditions —or,
perhaps, for that highland coun-
try in New Guinea. I’m passing
the information on mainly as a
matter of general interest, but
partly because some such possi-
bilities did occur to me. A lot
obviously depends on conditions
in certain districts, and also on
the emphasis given to wool,
mutton, or a bit of each. The
Dorper isn’t a dual-purpose
breed. It’s mutton or nothing.
I was in Australia in 1938,
and had a look at some of your
sheep-country, but I do not, on
that account, feel competent to
give an opinion. If any of your
fat-lamb men are interested in
the Dorper no doubt Colonel
Henderson, General Manager,
Witwatersrand Agri c u 1 tural
Society, Milner Park, Johannes-
burg, South Africa, could give
details, and a more authoritative
opinion than mine ; put them in
touch with the breeder (a farmer
in the Cape Province), or some-
thing of the sort.
Bees and Hormones
“C.A.”: After exhaustive tests,
Vic. Department of Agriculture
has come to the conclusion that
none of the hormone-weedicides
is harmful to bees. They con-
sider that the losses of bees in
the eastern Mallee district were
almost certainly due to arsenical-
poisoning, arising from arseni-
cal-sprays in vineyards.
Sprays used in the trial were
the amine and ester of 2 : 4D. of
normal concentrations: pollen
and nectar gathered w from
sprayed flowers did not have any
effect on the brood.
The tests confirm information
available from the U.S.A. on
the same subject.
Swarm-catching
“B-herd”; This spring, with
its almost daily showers (in the
north of N.S.W.), has been con-
ducive to swarming because of
the resultant water-thin nectar,
little of it, and abundance of
pollen. Result is that the bee-
herder sees the colonies he has
taken pains to make strong for
the harvest go bush on him.
Two ways to lessen the
swarming, at least: keep young
queens in the colonies, and steer
away from anything black. If
that hasn’t been done, catch the
swarm in the hive by drafting
out the swarmers (B. 30/7/’52)
and if time won’t permit this
manoeuvre, trust to the small
trees in the yard to hold them.
Dump them into a clean, dry
box on foundation. Some set in
a sheet of unsealed brood;
sometimes it may help, but if
bees intend leaving they’ll leave,
and let the next nurse-bee look
after the larvae.
For the swarms out of reach
a long thin sapling with an open
kero-tin nailed to the whip-end
will help. For those practically
out of sight, here’s something
worth remembering. Tie a comb
of young larvae to the end of the
longest stick you can handle,
poke it up into the cluster, and
leave for a few minutes. You’ll
find the bees will work over the
frame. Lower, untie, and set in
the box handy, then tie a second
sheet on.
This second sheet can be lifted
and lowered as many times as
you find necessary, the bees
being shaken into the box at
each descent. That’s all you can
do. If you haven’t got the swarm
by this, leave the cows and take
a job on the council.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
N.S.W. Cattle-tick
“Sparks”: With preparations
for the 1956 tick-eradication
campaign west of the Richmond
Range (N.S.W.) in full swing,
tick-board officials have been
staggered by a “completely
unexpected” outbreak of tick-
fever in the Coraki (mid-
Richmond River) area. The
district has always been regarded
as one of the “cleanest” areas
in the far North Coast tick-
country.
The outbreak, which followed
in the wake of the disastrous
February flood, was first sus-
pected to be leptospirosis, but
laboratory tests discounted this
diagnosis. Tick-fever was sug-
gested, but authorities discounted
this in view of the hitherto clean
record of the area. However,
subsequent tests gave proof that
losses on one property were
caused by tick-fever, and its
origin is now giving tick-board
officials a headache.
The possibility that the
disease - carrying ticks were
carried by stock obtained as
replacements for those lost in the
February flood was investigated
and ruled out. Officials are now
considering the possibility that
the ticks were brought in with
flood-relief fodder sent hurriedly
from Queensland.
Crosscuts
Dried solubles left after distil-
lation of industrial alcohol from
citrus-molasses may become an
important source of soluble
vitamins in poultry-feed, accord-
ing to a report from U.S. The
dried solubles have higher
protein and B-group content than
citrus-molasses, developed from
rapid multiplication of yeast-
cells during fermentation. Tests
so far indicate that the solubles
are not complete substitutes for
other supplements, such as dried-
whey, but are useful incomplete
ones. If further tests are
successful, commercial produc-
tion could help the citrus
industry and make poultry-feed
cheaper.
♦ ♦ ♦
First consignment of chilled-
beef to U.K. since 1939 left
Brisbane in Ixion. More to
follow.
• * ♦
“Streaky”: Kingaroy (Q.),
home of the peanut, has another
claim to fame; the district is
Australia’s largest producer of
pigmeats. The two industries
thrived side -by - side until
factories began to knock-back
the overfat nut-fed baconer (now
a positive reject at the weekly
auctions). And whereas, once.
dealers bought pigs to fatten,
the shrewd ones now buy cheap
fat pigs and slim them for resale.
♦ ♦ *
Forecast for the Canadian
wheat - crop is 513,000,000
bushels. If realised this will be
the fourth consecutive wheat-
crop to exceed 500,000,000
bushels. Although a crop of
this size would be 101,000,000
less than last year’s next-to-
record one, it would still be
12 p.c. above the 10-year
(1944-53) average,
“Punch,” some time back, on
an aspect of the wheat situation
sometimes overlooked here:
The British farmer views with
pain.
Like Ruth, a glut of alien gram.
* * *
D.D.T. was welcomed on
M.I.A. for control of codling-
moth. Now, it seems, they are
discovering a few snags. Ento-
mologist Clive Brickhill (M.I.A.
Agricultural Service) has re-
ported rise in red-spider mite
population; D.D.T. killed the
lady-bird, which feeds on the
red-spider. Lead-arsenate, with
1-100 white-oil in some cover-
sprays, did control red-spider.
Until two seasons ago, advice
was to use D.D.T. on apples
until December, then change to
lead-arsenate. Rejection of ex-
port apples had forced the use
of D.D.T. right through the
season,
• ♦ *
Asparagus, a post-war crop at
Gundagai (N.S.W.), has been
doing well on the Murrumbidgee
flats there. Recent harvest was
good—complete recovery after
floods of 1950 and 1952.
* * •
“Soil-conservation work has
now been carried out on 3500
properties totalling five million
acres” (N.S.W. Minister for
Conservation Enticknap).
* * *
C. N. Squires, chairman of the
dairying section of the N.S.W.
division of the Australian
Primary Producers’ Union, said
the “disgraceful practice” of
blending butter in factories
reflected adversely on producers.
At Sydney factories, he said, he
had seen first-class N.S.W. butter
blended with butter from Queens-
land and Victoria. Salt and
water were added to the mixture,
which was then sold as first-
quality butter. He had been told
by employees that the water
made the butter easier to spread.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Russian Expansion
“All the great migrations have started
from the Russian steppes.” So spoke
my Russian patient and then stopped, as
does one who has said too much. To
encourage him I took his statement as one
of an abstract scientific fact, and agreed:
Yes, that area has been a womb of
nations. The whole Aryan culture system
and its nations came from thereabouts.”
“That is so,” he said, and named most
of the mass-movements that spread thence
into India, Persia, Mesopotamia and the
Fertile Crescent and through the Balkans
into Greece and Italy. Goths, Magyars,
Huns and Avars; even the Vandals and
the Germanic tribes and the Norse first
heard of along the Baltic, seem to have
come up out of Russia. Genghis Khan’s
devastating hordes started out from
Western Mongolia, but gained their big
impetus in Turkestan, which later was
the home of Tamerlaine’s armies.
My Russian patient had it all pat and,
finding me understanding and apprecia-
tive, he wound up with: “It is biological,
doctor. These peoples had to burst out.”
i dark, thick-set man of
hi:i M and came to me from a
‘'an sh.p down from Vladivostok
iot long ?■ er the war ended. He was
nricer.! and even shy at first, but when he
discovered that I also had been a seafarer
and could eet him on his own level he
spoke more freely.
incidental to his early medical history
pi red that he had been a Russian
the revolution, and had wandered
i! other waifs from village to village
mUi taker! into a State orphanage. He
spoke respectfully, and with affection, of
; >iiage and its staff. I have never
Australian State child or ex-State
s o poke of the people who cared
r , whether officials or foster-
! r s h better than indifference. My
patient was really grateful. He
• 'o aave had cause for gratitude.
been, so he said, well-cared-for
d for a vocation of his own
* ne sea. And he was well
though his history showed
definite nmunist bias.
cit agreement we kept off
t a doctor is allowed a wide
iterrogating a patient. The
ot of the U.S.S.R. was of a
v -o >ed and satisfied, if not con-
people with a belief that it was
1 u. ly to multiply and spread over
e face of the earth. It frightened me.
the light of subsequent events
"If you can find ONE bad'un, missus, I'll give 'un to ’ee,”
of expansfon 6 and”in filtra tiom* § system
The system is simple and terribly
efficient. A vast, completely controlled
core; the main body of Russia and
Western Siberia and the Caspian Steppes.
Tbe southern end of the Urals and across
a centra, security area, A thl
great Obi River is being diverted to the
south on to the Khirgiz Steppes, There
was mention of the Lake Balkash area
becoming a central reserve and control.
All this and much more by a confederacy
that can devote twice as big a proportion
of its national incomes to propaganda
and war as can any of the Western
Powers. It is real and big, and is being
done by a mass of peoples carefully
indoctrinated with this idea of destiny—
a destiny to enlighten, to rule, the world.
Another point my Russian patient made
was: “The Romans ruled the then
civilised world. It was a military rule, but
it gave a longer period of greater peace to
more peoples than any other. Four-
hundred years of peace to all the Medi-
terranean peoples and many of their
neighbors.” J mentioned Goths and
Vandals and a few Germanic
tribes, but he countered with,
“True, but most of them were
absorbed or their impact was
local. In any case the Roman
culture survived,”
He was substantially right.
The Pax Romana was a military
peace kept to the clank of the
legions marching over slave-built
roads and it bore heavily on the
subject peoples, but still it was
a longer and more tranquil peace
and affected more peoples than
any other before or since. That the
U.S.S.R. has my patient’s idea is borne
out by their world strategy and politics.
Surrounding the organised centre is a
zone of buffer or puppet States, the latter
well under control. Beyond these are
the countries to be indoctrinated or
undermined. The Soviet pose as friends
and give political and technical advice
and even assistance, but always the advice
and propaganda is directed towards foster-
ing hostility between their puppets and
some nation on the far side from the
Soviet territories. A continuous pressure
is maintained from the Soviet centre
outwards.
If friendly means do not prevail then
a revolution is fomented and the outward
pressure set up and maintained by a new
puppet. Whatever the technique, peaceful
penetration or revolution, the Soviets
always pose as friends of the people
if not of the nation being invaded, and
the nations on the other side are always
represented as being enemies. The
Soviets are always friendly, are destined,
are always right. There is always pressure
of some sort along the perimeter, and
nearly always it is “hot” in at least one
spot. The succession of recent hot-spots
is significant Korea, Indo-China,
Formosa, Nepal—a non-stop succession.
The plan is almost unbeatable.
What are the Western Powers to do
about it? The only answer is a counter-
push. A large and grim order?
Certainly, but this is a serious and grim
business and there is no alternative. The
JJJust the l d q “ estlon . is: to what extent
niques? The answer 5 is ° P fn tech "
extent possible and till it 1° gr ® at ® st
democratsandt both
For ffie Westem Pow!;. a , ,•
especially the order must ho A “ st^ alia
rsSrif y rm s r e ha : d Z T^
S™,j» * fT* ‘ ,pea f ” to L f® Wh ° le
world, and, be sure, it would be a very
military peace Once a nation goes under
minority control, a few soldiers, secret
police and spies, aided by motor-vehicles,
my 'f nS 2 nd gas "bombs, can
M [ J r ° f aVerage CltJZens -~
v ah lowe (.O-)-
Red Sunset
If this generation is lost, as that New
) , lldge 22/9/’54). then
I should say that, in Australia, Common-
ism is not one ° f the things it is iost to.
When migrants began to come in their
thousands to this country from all parts
of Europe there was a good deal of
speculation as to what effect they would
have on our culture. Apart from the
actual work they do, the overriding
effect so far has been to discredit Com-
munism.
Hearing people in our midst speaking
of purges, reigns of terror, imprisonment
and torture as things experienced at first
hand has brought home to Australians a
vivid and accurate picture of Commun-
ism in practice—an impression we could
never have formed from reading news-
papers, no matter how well-intentioned.
I remember Vincent, a Yugoslav with
whom I picked grapes for several weeks.
He had been tortured by Fascists and
imprisoned by Fascists; he had been
decorated by Tito and imprisoned by
Tito ; he finally stowed away in a ship
and escaped from his home country. At
night he would tell me some of the
things he had known and, at the end of a
story, fall silent and thoughtful. Then
he would shake his head and say: “Com-
munism is no bloody good. I have seen
it.”
There are a lot of Vincents everywhere
in Australia now and their first-hand
knowledge of Communism and its
methods could turn out to be the most
valuable thing they have brought us.—•
G. W. (Vic.).
Bank Profits
In reviewing the balance-sheet of one
of the private trading-banks The
Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” Department
lately remarked: “The bulk of the profit
still appears to come from the investment
basket. Margins in ordinary banking
business are very narrow indeed.” This
narrowing of profit is, as was stated by
the reviewer, partly due to the increasing
variety of doubtfully profitable services
which the banks, generally, now seem to
regard as their duty to provide.
In the last 20 years or so, they have
gone a long way along this track, and a
bank is now considerably more than a
place for receipt of deposits and making
advances—its basic functions. Some of
the recent innovations, to my mind,
smack too much of the Yankee idea of
what is necessary, and I would regard
some of them merely as fairly expensive
“stunts.” Further, I am not at all sure that
they inspire or strengthen confidence—
a matter, in banking, of prime
importance.
Extensive advertising campaigns and
opening branches in places already
adequately provided with banking
facilities also contribute their quota
towards narrowing profit-margins.
There are two avenues for bettering
results which might be examined. One
is the undertaking by the banks of
trustee and executorship business, a side-
line which some banks in England seem
to find well worth while, but which in
Aus,ralia is left largely to the trustee
companies or private individuals
The other is the matter of insuring the
banks’own premises and property Banks
must be among the largest owners of real
property in Australasia, and the amounts
P aid out annually in premiums to
insurance companies would, if placed to
an insurance reserve with the banks them-
selves, soon build-up to an amount which
“wS
reached, the appropriations could be
tapered-off or discontinued
A further advantage would be that
the banks would have the use of such
funds in their businesses or for investment
outside. As a matter of interest, in nearly
50 years I have known of only one bank
being destroyed by fire.
Of course, if ordinary banking margins
of profit get any smaller, it would always
be competent for the shareholders to
realise on all their assets, put the proceeds
into the investment basket and get out of
the banking business altogether. The sum
so realised, invested in gilt-edged securi-
ties at 4j per cent., would doubtless
provide a dividend greater than now
being paid and with a darned sight less
trouble and worry— Wild Cat’s Kitten
(Vic.).
The Labor Row
The contretemps in the Labor party
has been brewing for years. It has not
only been the persistence of Labor
leaders in defending Communists and
their tacit approval of Communist prac-
tices that have galled Labor Catholics.
There has been a growing realisation of
the significance of the political fink
between Labor’s Socialist objective and
Communism.
In the Encyclical Letter Quadragesima
Anno of Pope Pius XI, issued in 1931,
this declaration appeared: “Whether
Socialism is considered as a doctrine, or
as a historical fact, or as a Movement,
if it really remains Socialism it cannot
be brought into harmony with the
dogmas of the Catholic Church ”
Labor, in an effort to maintain the
support of Catholics, revived the “Black-
burn interpretation,” which purports to
make out that the Socialist objective
doesn’t really mean what piost people
think it means. By the terms of the
Blackburn interpretation there would
only be socialisation of private enterprise
where there was exploitation. But the
Blackburn interpretation is all moon-
shine, and nobody knows that better
than those Labor leaders who use it to
mollify the fears of non-Socialists and
placate the consciences of Catholics.
The Blackburn interpretation won’t
stick and can’t be made to stick. When it
was “adopted” at the Federal Labor
conference in 1921, 15 delegates voted
for it and 13 against. There were 32
accredited delegates at the conference,
and Labor’s Federal conference rule 6 (it
still operates) laid it down that: “Any
motion or amendment affecting the
Pledge, Platform or Constitution shall be
declared lost if less than a majority of
the delegates credentialled to the con-
ference voted for it.” For the Blackburn
interpretation to be effective at least 17
delegates should have voted for it.
Further, while subsequent Federal
Labor conferences have passed resolu-
tions relating to the Blackburn interpre-
tation, all of the resolutions have merely
reaffirmed it. In effect these reaffirma-
tions have been made with respect to
something which, by Labor rules them-
selves, just didn’t exist. —D. J. K. (Q.).


That Nuclear Reactor ?
The news that “one of the most modern
nuclear-reactors in the world" is shortly
to be built in Australia is good news 1
indeed. What is not so good is the pro- (
nouncement that it is to be sited “near
Sydney.” Considered from the defence J
point of view—and that’s the first and
foremost point of view to be considered
“near Sydney” is the last place to put
such an all-important project. Anywhere
on the coastline in the Newcastle-
Wollongong-Sydney area should be out of
the question—there are more than enough
industries and installations in this area
already which would be vital military
targets in the event of war. To put the
nuclear-reactor here as well!— —
Of course, as with all atomic projects,
the reactor must be handy to sufficient
water; but that can surely be fixed-up
somehow away from the Sydney “death-
trap.”
Must the reactor be placed in N.S.W. ?
Mr. Menzies seems to have made-up his
mind that it should be ; but he might
well reconsider whether S.A. should not
have it. Naturally S.A. Premier Playford
made an early bid for it. He failed, but
he had some mighty strong arguments to
put-up, including the one that, S.A. having
no natural resources of fuel-supply for
the large industries now operating there,
it was the logical State to get industrial
atomic power.
But if the reactor must be sited in
N.S.W., let it be put, say, west of the
Blue Mountains, as has been suggested;
anywhere but “near Sydney.”— Kros
(S.A.).
Public Works Expenditure
Dotted around Australia today are a
host of unfinished public works, the
majority well behind schedule with
thousands of pounds already ploughed
into them and little hope for a return
until the jobs are completed sometime
well into the future.
It has worried the Loan Council so
much that at present some form of
priority has been introduced in a bid to
have at least some of them completed
with the amount of loan-funds available.
But still this takes time.
In contrast to this dismal scene Vic-
toria’s Water Supply Authority resolved
a few years back to pool most of its loan-
funds into one job; spend it quickly and
get some quick return. The gamble has
succeeded, for the Eildon Dam project —
the biggest earth- and rock-fill structure
in the Southern Hemisphere—is due to be
finished early next year —less than four
years after the first charge was fired.
Instead of doing the job by day-labor
with the existing earth-moving equipment
available in Australia, the commission
sought contracts overseas, particularly
America. It stipulated that the contractor
was to use the most modern and toughest
equipment, the commission to pay for it,
so that when the job was completed, the
equipment could be used elsewhere.
The successful tenderer, Utah Construc-
tion Co., brought from America a fleet
of Euclid loaders and trucks and large
rock-excavating shovels. What has been
done here in Victoria in less than three
and a half years is a miracle to this
country.
The huge dam, which rises some 270 ft.
from the river-bed, is more than two-thirds
completed, the Goulburn River has been
diverted for 1000 ft. under a tall mountain,
and a wide spillway, wider than a main
city-street, is nearing completion. Already
the water-capacity of the reservoir has
been increased and more water will be
available for irrigation this summer; this
same water, before it begins its flow to
the irrigation plots of northern Victoria,
is generating electricity for 18 hours a
day as a by-product.
Naturally, work at this tempo costs
money, and the job will cost all of £2O
million, but when this is compared with
the increased output in food it will bring
each year (conservatively estimated at £l5
million) it is surely proof that a huge
initial expenditure on irrigation projects
is worth the quick return it will bring.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Private Banking
It looks as though private trading-
banks will soon be forced to take positive
action to protect themselves against
almost inevitable disaster.
Because of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s banking legislation, the control
of funds held by trading-banks is drifting
to the Commonwealth Bank. In fact.
“This is our de-luxe model.”
what began as a drift is developing into
a swift current that is filling the coffers
of the Commonwealth Bank with trading-
bank funds that should properly be used
for the expansion of private industry.
Within recent weeks the position has
been aired by S. E. Card, secretary of
the United Bank Officers’ Association.
He accused the Government of creating
a situation that will jeopardise the careers
of bank officers, and must eventually end
in socialisation of banking.
Card’s stand has been supported by
financial writers, and, sooner or later, as
the facts are ventilated in the press, his
concern will be shared by investors hold-
ing shares in the trading-banks.
The fact is that the Commonwealth
Government, which was elected because
the people overwhelmingly opposed
Chifley’s 1949 bank-nationalisation pro-
gramme, has failed to carry out the
promise it then made to protect, by legis-
lation, the Australian system of free and
competitive banking.
As things stand at present, the com-
pulsory transfer of trading-bank funds to
the Commonwealth Bank has resulted in
a stiffening of credit that denies money to
trading-bank customers, and is interfer-
ing with the normal expansion of business.
In consequence, trading - bank
customers who are denied accommodation
are forced to seek finance privately, out-
side the banking world, at high rates of
interest, or approach the Commonwealth
Bank, in which case their accounts are
transferred, by compulsion, to the Gov-
ernment instrumentality.
In other words, while the Common-
wealth and State Governments are
lavishly financing public works at the
expense of the taxpayer, free enterprise,
which pays taxes, is being denied fresh
capital for expansion, or at best is forced
to seek finance from the Commonwealth
Bank, or outside the banking structure.
It is significant that Dr. Coombs, the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank
and once an avowed Socialist, was
one of the team that advised Chifley on
his policy of outright bank-nationalisa-
tion.
In fairness to Dr. Coombs, however,
were he an enthusiastic free-enterpriser,
which he is certainly not, there is nothing
he could do to halt the present automatic
trend to Commonwealth Bank supremacy
while the Commonwealth’s banking legis-
lation remains unaltered.
The fault lies entirely with the Govern-
ment, which has completely disregarded
the promise it made, not to the banks,
but to the people of Australia, to protect
the freedom of the private banking-system
from the bureaucrats and Socialists.
The latter, having failed to capture the
banks by direct frontal attack when
Chifley was Prime Minister, have appar-
ently succeeded, in their role of bureau-
crats, in gulling the present Government
into legislation that will socialise more
slowly, but just as surely.
With their employees, shareholders and
customers all vitally concerned, the banks
have no option but to act, and the sooner
they do so the better. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Labor’s Future
Those early Labor leaders whom
“G El burg” ’damns with faint praise—
“they were fine men but a bit narrow”
(B. 15/9/’54) —mightn’t agree with him
that their aims have all been achieved.
They, and their diehard opponents,
would almost certainly challenge the
naive prophecy that the things the early
Labor leaders fought for and won “will
not be lost” —something like them was
lost in Germany and other European
Stu'tes when the clenched fist of Nazism
drove living standards into the ground ;
they’ve been lost, and are still lost, under
Communism. It can’t happen here? It
can happen wherever men relax their
vigilance and relinquish all opposition to
the party in power.
“G.E.” would abolish the Labor party
because it has “achieved its aims.
Would he abolish the Liberal party be-
cause Australian industry is in a good
position? Or the Country party because
the aims of its founders have been
achieved? Would he disband our defence
forces because we’re not at war? He
might as logically abolish churches be-
cause Australia is a Christian nation.
The present Labor party owes its decline
not to having followed the old leaders’
policy too far, but to having departed
from it too radically. The old leaders
saw a nation where every man pulled his
weight, ate his full and enjoyed his
freedom. The first tenet in their platform
was “eight hours labor” —after that came
rest and recreation. They would have
sided with the bulk of present-day Aus-
tralians in their abhorrence of Com-
munism and in their fear of socialisation
and the slavery it implies.
Maybe if those old leaders were alive
now they’d find themselves in rather close
agreement with Mr. Menzies ; they might
support him in much Of what he does;
but they would no more advocate one-
party government than he would. —
Dustman (W.A.).
National Service
Advocates of longer periods of national-
service training, similar to that in the
U.S.A. and England, overlook several
important facts. Australia is still an
expanding country and a maximum
labor force is required for the develop-
ment that is essential to our defence.
Some sort of balance must be struck.
Moreover, Australia is undertaking
increasing economic commitments in the
South-East Asian areas. For instance,
in the recent South-East Asia Treaty-,
the signatories agree to co-operate “to
promote economic progress and social
well-being.” These burdens may be
onerous, but they are necessary if we
are to convince our Asian neighbors not
merely of our desire for friendship, but
also of our sincerity in helping to solve
the international problems that exist
because of their low standard of living.
If we can convince nations like India of
our sincerity, we will have accomplished
more than we could ever achieve from
national service.
But, while there is a case for limiting
national service, the method of doing so
is open to dispute. There is a legal prin-
ciple that it is not sufficient that justice
be done—it must also appear to be done,
because only in that way can the law
command the respect of the people. The
same principle applies with equal force
to Governments. Already some proposed
systems of selection have become the
football of sectional interests. Country
people point out that farm-labor is short;
students and apprentices retort that their
work is equally as important to the
nation.
At this stage we could ask what is
required from the training. If it is merely
to toughen up our young men and give
them sufficient basic training to provide
a pool of semi-trained men should war
come, it would obviously be better to
shorten the training than to provide loop-
holes for the influential to escape it.
—Mac D. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 301
Across
I— Bulldozers among such equip-
ment winning the whole world’s
pity. (5-6)
6 —Expert has a bad turn. (3)
8— Kit French and internal jokers
(male). (9)
9 Hydrocarbon compound in the
trees where Miss Williams lacks
aspiration. (5)
10 — Restores order when it goes back
and kicks the bucket. (6)
ll Griddle-cake town in N.S.W. is
contained in ice-cream con-
tainers. (5)
14—Strike violently into a wool-
producer. (3)
16— Bed is not properly made before
tea —which is not at all creditable.
(4)
17— Melbourne suburb kicks a lobster.
(9)
20— Tutankhamen, or a vessel m an
educational position. (9)
21— leave Kit in favor of no speed
interlacement. (4)
22 Negative resemblance to 21
across. (3)
24 An assault with the remnants of
an incinerated sailor to confuse
with shame. (5)
25 Disorderly squire in “blue.” (6)
28-—A wild native acacia has every-
thing belonging to Yours Truly.
(5)
29 Ram or mar a marred radius,
perhaps. or some humerus
irregularity. (6, 3)
30— Grant opposition for the sheltered
side. (3)
31— Slow-scorcr takes South to the
novel and everything German he
gives General Jackson and the
Queen. (11)
Down
1— There’s nothing odd about this
movement of the waters at night-
fall. (8)
2 Circumlocutory merry-go-round
has a boxing engagement at last,
and a part thereof. (10)
3 A bounder has a funnel that feeds
materials into a mill. (6)
4 Frank has nothing to write. (4)
5 No century interrupts a Hellene
city of the Clydebank. (8)
6 The palm may show this assigna-
tion. (4)
7 Ingoldsby is to allow no corny
old-fashioned acting. (6)
12 - Herb who maliciously talks
Japanese getting an injury from a
moggie. (6)
13— Change is soft, and stealthily
passes off as genuine the contents
of boxing-gloves presented with
love. (6)
14— A burst of inclement weather.
(10)
15— Aviary dropping by way of an
affirmative. (2)
18 —Intimidate a Melbourne suburb’s
guide to the roaming herd. (8)
19 — Are found in a steamer, and a
land-lubber’s link with one at
sailing time. (8)
20— Preposition. (2)
22 — It is the usual thing from Molnar.
(6)
23 — Whoever Jael murdered is a
little kinswoman over age. (6)
26 This makes a new arrangement
decline. (4)
27 Columba took the plunge in old-
fashioned style. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 300


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Jraited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith &<
Ltd., Perth.
v■ !• ■ •
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. I
Hobart and Launceston.
(M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page la a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
i’NPM’ed monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
October
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
ACHIEVEMENTS OF C.S.I.R.O.
A typical scene on
a section of the
board in an Aus-
tralian Shearing
Shed, where im-
pressive tallies are
obtained by the
use of modern
Shearing machin-
ery.—By courtesy
“Country Life.”
Graziers acclaim practical benefits although in the past some
irned scientific research as useless and impractical theorising.
1.1.R.0. achievements have stifled criticism.
of the organization in-
cessful use of the virus
sis, which has decimated
pest and vastly in-
cr e carrying capacity of
properties all over the Common-
wealth,
• L.B.E. Scourable Branding
Fluid.
• The “BELMONT” Process, a
sensational discovery which makes
wool shrink-proof and increases
its wearing qualities, cf special im-
portance in the battle against syn-
thetic fibres.
• Breeding experiments and re-
search on Foot-Rot disease.
• In the long run this work is
bound to be of incalculable benefit
to the wool industry, and is as
necessary as the development of
more modern and efficient Shear-
ing Machinery has been.
The Machine Designed to Handle
Heavier Australian Fleeces
Moffat-Virtue’s improved Shear-
ing Machinery was designed
specially to overcome the prob-
lems presented by the increasing
wool - carrying capacity of Aus-
tralian sheep.
Since the beginning of this century
the average yield per sheep has
almost; doubled, and this trend
forced the scrapping of old prin-
ciples of shearing machine design.
This design of the up-to-date M. V.
No. 8 Gear prevents wasteful
second cuts in heavy fleeces.
“Drag” on the cone-pulley is
eliminated, and a constant cutter
speed is maintained, even when
the shearer pulls hard on the
downtube. The new M.V. Gear
definitely improves the quality
and quantity of wool output.
Full particulars may be obtained
from any of the State Distributors
listed at the foot of this page.
Wool Industry Conference
Delegates Urge Govt. Action
On Tar Problems...
“Heavy Loss to Industry As a Whole”
The prevalence of tar brand stains in wool received by the overseas
mills has caused a heavy loss to the industry, the recent conference
in Melbourne of representatives from the Graziers’ Association,
Wool Bureau C.5.1.R.0., Wool-Buying interests, etc., agreed. In
fact, the issue was of such a grave nature that many delegates
approved* of the proposal that the Government should legislate to
prevent the sale of non-scourable branding fluids, and the use of tar
for antiseptic purposes.
TAR ANTISEPTICS BLAMED
It was also suggested that another cause of tar stains was possibly
in many cases the use of tar as an antiseptic rather than as a brand.
Despite the unduly limited amount
of funds available, the C.5.1.R.0.
would continue to investigate
many avenues of possible im-
provements for the wool industry.
It was hoped that, in the very near
future, a scourable branding fluid
would be marketed which would
be satisfactory in every way. Dr.
Lipson, officer in charge of the
C.5.1.R.0. Wool Textile Research
Laboratories, told the conference
that his organization had been
working for some time on an im-
proved L.B.E. fluid, which can
applied to wet sheep, and unc
any conditions of rainfall. He s
that preliminary experime
seemed to show that the new fl
may be a great Success.
The interest taken by Grazi
generally in recent attempts
discuss and disseminate mforr
tion and advice which would be
benefit to the industry shov
an- increasing awareness of
necessity for greater efficiei
than has been required in the pi
FEARS OVER WOOL PRICES
Although fears that wool export
prices cannot continue at the
present level may be groundless,
most experts agree that in the
future Australia will definitely
~., , . •
have a battle for markets on its
,
hands,
That makes a 1 the more vital the
efforts of individual graziers to
bring their properties up-to-date as
far as equipment and pasture-im-
provement are concerned, and the
efforts of semi-governmental and
other representative bodies inter-
ested in the industry to improve
breeding, stamp out diseases :
pests, improve marketing methi
and processing of wool to incre
staple strength, etc.
Already great progress has h
made in many directions,
example, the conquest of
rabbit pest by myxomatosis.
The fact that a record 128 mill
sheep are estimated to be in A
tralia, as compared with 95 i
lion in 1947, bears testimony
the increased carrying capacity
the land.
A FAMILIAR FEATURE OF
THE MODERN SHEARINC
SHED...
Because the MOFFAT-VIRTUE No. 8 Ball-Bearing O'
head Gear features exclusive Full-Floating Transmissior
has found favour with so many graziers who have recei
installed a new board or re-converted old-type gear,
many advantages of this revolutionary design more t
justify the installation of Moffat-Virtue Gear, which has b
designed to handle local conditions, and has been pro
by its performance.
