

THE
HOUSE
dfg
SEPP E L T
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
MURDER AT KING’S CROSS •— PAGE 20
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3863
Wednesday, February 24, 1954
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
GRIM FORTRESS OF THE NORTH, BARRA’S KISIMULE CASTLE.
THE group of islands known collectively as the Outer Hebrides or Western
Isles extend for a distance of 139 miles from the Butt of Lewis to Barra
Head off the west coast of Scotland. From the eighth century until 1266
these islands were under the domination of the invading Norsemen and
evidence of their occupation still survives in that part of Scotland. After
their departure the lordship of the Hebrides was assumed by Sommerled,
who had married the daughter of one of the Norse kings about the year 1110.
The title “Lord of the Isles” was first adopted by John Macdonald of Islay
in the 14th century.
Gaelic is spoken throughout the islands, and the chief industries are the
harvesting of seaweed, the weaving of the world-famous Harris tweed and
fishing. Centre of the herring-fleet in Barra, one of the southernmost islands,
is Castlebay, which is dominated by the only medieval castle in the Outer
Hebrides, Kisimule. This island-fortress, dating from the 12th century, has
survived the attacks of besieging enemies and the storms of the centuries.
The walls of the tower, 49ft. in height and 6ft. thick, are built of the local
stone and shell-lime mortar. Entrance to the castle was gamed through a
narrow door 18ft. above the rock and was reached by a movable ramp or
ladder.
For many centuries this impregnable fortress was the headquarters ol
the powerful Mac Neils of Barra, who were reputed to be the best seafaring
warriors in the Western Isles. The most celebrated member of the family
was the thirty-fifth chief of the Mac Neils known as Roderic the Turbulent,
a reckless pirate whose exploits so annoyed Queen Elizabeth I that she com-
plained to James VI of Scotland. As a result, Roderic was kidnapped and
brought before the King at Edinburgh. He was reprimanded for his repeated
acts of piracy, and his estates were forfeited, but he was allowed to return
to Kisimule, where he lived more quietly for many years until his death. No
other place in all the Western Isles has as much history or tradition as
Kisimule, and the daring exploits of its chiefs are recorded in poetry and song.


The Red Page
NEW ZEALAND GREETS THE WORLD
New Zealanders themselves will pro-
bably be as pleasantly surprised as any-
one overseas to realise that they have
a body of short-stories worth present-
ing to the world’s attention: which, on
the whole, is shown to be the case by
New Zealand Short Stories, selected by
the novelist D. M. Bavin, for the
“World’s Classics” library of the Oxford
University Press—a companion to the
Australian anthology selected a year or
so ago by Henrietta Drake-Brockman
and Walter Murdoch.
The name of Katherine Mansfield is
possibly known today in Whangamo-
monona and Teapot Valley, as it is in
Paris and London ; the literary coteries,
and a few readers outside, would know
Frank Sargeson; Bulletin readers
should be aware of Gloria Rawlinson,
who, at her best, writes with a crystalline
vividness hardly seen elsewhere since
Katherine Mansfield.
But the general fate of writers in New
Zealand, due partly to the lack of enter-
prising publishers until the State literary-
fund was lately established, partly to the
kind of suspicion of the local product
with which we have been familiar in Aus-
tralia, and largely because of an over-
whelming interest in butter, racing and
football, was fairly summed up by
Roderick Finlayson when, having had
his Tidal Creek published by Angus
and Robertson, and many of his short-
stories in The Bulletin, he wrote to The
Bulletin a few years ago that he thought
he was better known as a writer in Aus-
tralia than in his own country. The New
Zealand poet A. R. D. Fairburn made a
similar complaint with considerably more
emphasis, in a Red Page article not long
ago.
The present reviewer must confess to
sharing the general ignorance in regard
to Frank S. Anthony, the author of
“Winter Feeding the Herd” in Mr.
Bavin’s anthology. Who was Frank S.
Anthony (he lived from 1891 to 1925)
and how did his story come to be printed
by the Hawera “Star”?—which, though
it did have something of a literary tradi-
tion, and once heroically published John
Houston’s collection of Maori songs in
the original Maori, was for the most part
an ordinary country newspaper. How
had Anthony come to fall into such
neglect that, though not many years after
his death one worked in amiable journa-
listic rivalry with the “Star” and thought
one knew every notability in the town
from the “Star’s” Mr. Page to the Maori
prophet Toroa Ngatau (who thought the
Lord would provide him and his tribe
with food) one had never heard of him?
For “Winter Feeding the Herd” is—-
among this collection at any rate —quite
a remarkable story. It must have been
written before 1925, yet, if Frank S.
Anthony were alive today he would have
no difficulty in placing it with any “New
Writing” anthology or with such a maga-
zine as “Horizon” —if it, too, were
alive.
True, those moronic hillbillies turning
their cows loose for the winter in the
Mt. Egmont National Reserve do not
strike the memory as typical, or even
wholly probable, Taranaki rustics ... a
more solid, ruminative type in general,
still moving in the leisurely tradition of
their Devon ancestors. Frank S.
Anthony picked them up, perhaps, from
somewhere in the U.S. Tobacco Road
country; from wherever such modernists
as Dal Stivens in Australia and Sargeson
in New Zealand derive.
Still, at an earlier period, Anthony
could conceivably have observed them in
Taranaki; and, if one does not alto-
gether care for the method of narration
by a moron in the first-person, there are
certainly an unusual breath of the Tara-
naki bush in this story, a free and imagin-
ative approach to the storyteller’s art, and
one very amusing scene when the two
silly oafs in the reserve both get treed
by a cow and have to race home in
relays.
“Winter Feeding the Herd” is one of
the “discoveries” of Mr. Bavin’s selec-
tion, and one is glad to find that there are
others. Most of these are by modern
writers who have published through the
Caxton Press in Christchurch or in
“Landfall,” a New Zealand quarterly,
and have not been seen outside their own
country.
There is, for instance, “By the Lake,”
by Dennis McEldowney, who was born
in 1926. “By the Lake” is a fantasy—
the only thing of its kind in a collection
on the whole (though lightened by the
lyricism of Katherine Mansfield and her
followers) solidly realistic. A farmer’s
boy named Michael takes a guest named
Mr. Payne for a walk around a South
Island lake along the track where, cen-
turies ago, the Maoris used to come for
greenstone. He leads Mr. Payne into a
cave which had first been shown to him
by a shepherd who has since disappeared,
thought to be drowned, and in which
there were fourteen Maori skulls. There
are now fifteen.
Michael goes missing in the cave and
Mr. Payne, searching for him, discovers
with dismay that there are now sixteen
skulls... It is the sort of story that,
wrongly handled, would make the most
dreadful melodrama; but it is done with
a beautifully light, ironic and economical
touch; and the author solves very neatly
indeed the problem that besets all writers
of such fantasies; how, having got into
the cave of a bright idea, to get plausibly
out of it again. Mr. Payne is sent back
by Michael’s mother to look for the boy
and, without a word being said to make
melodrama out of his horror, goes quietly
and willingly. There are now, presum-
ably, seventeen skulls in the cave.
There is, too, an excellent naval-story
of World War 11, “The Glass Wig,” by
Bruce Mason, who was born in 1921. It
is quite equal to anything one has read
by H. E. Bates, V. S. Pritchett or Eudora
Welty ; a rarity among sea-stories in that
it depends much more on subtlety of
characterisation for its drama than on
the simple antagonists of war or wave.
It is about a puritanic New Zealand
sailor —but a hearty puritan who domin-
ates the mess with his intolerable energy
and goodwill—who steals the glass wig
worn by a bald and Rabelaisian little
Welshman who, with his power like
Samson’s residing in his glass hair, has
become a rival and reprehensible influ-
ence on the cruiser. The scene where
Lachlan Fyffe reads the Bible aloud to
drown the Welshman’s anecdotes of his
successes with women is exceptionally
vivid and convincing, and the conclusion
is a rare bit of satirical revelation: the
narrator discovers, visiting Fyffe after the
war has ended, that he has transformed
the famous wig into a tea-cosy.
Among the stories from the earlier,
“colonial” period there is no outstand-
ing discovery to match “The Glass Wig” ;
but it is well worth while, nevertheless, to
be introduced to Alfred Grace (1867-
1942), whose Tales of a Dying Race was
published in England and whose amusing
“Te Wiria’s Potatoes” sets the tone for
all the rest of the Maori comedies in
which New Zealand literature—in con-
trast to Australia’s usually sentimental
or merely ethnological handling of the
aborigines—is so rich.
Henry Lapham’s “A Member of the
Force,” about a villainous fossicker, a
beauteous barmaid and an amorous
policeman, is ihteresting enough as a
period melodrama of the kind which Mr.
Colin Roderick lately assembled for us
in Australia, with something of the
genuine flavor of the times and the wild
hills in it to offset the ridiculous plot.
William Baucke’s “A Quaint Friendship”
is a sound and readable Maori story in
a more serious vein—the tragedy of their
defeat by the pakeha; and, placed first
in the book, Lady Barker’s “Christmas
Day in New Zealand,” from A Christmas
Cake in Four Quarters, is as charming as
anything in her lately-republished Station
Life in New Zealand.
But it seems to the present reviewer
that Mr. Bavin should somehow have
contrived to draw a clear line through
that confused territory where direct
reminiscence and the short-story mingle ;
for if Lady Barker is included (with what
is essentially a traveller’s essay; even
though she relates bush-yams in her
description of the shepherds relaxing on
Christmas Day) there seems to be no
valid reason why extracts from such
classics as Old New Zealand and
Poenamo should not also be included:
and so you would have any chapter of
reminiscence defined as a short-story.
If the term short-story is to mean any-
thing different from, say, Hazlitt’s essays
(which, like Lady Barker’s reminiscences,
contain a good deal of narrative interest),
the distinction, difficult enough to make,
must lie in the isolation and clarification
of autobiographical material, where it is
used, into pure narrative form—the fol-
lowing of a single dramatic theme from
its beginning to its logical end.
The Wellington essayist F. L.
Combs, had Mr. Bavin considered him,
would have set a similar problem ...
which might have been solved by finding,
somewhere amongst the delightful essays
published in England by Dent and in
Australia by The Bulletin, a piece which
in singleness and clarity of dramatic
movement, in purpose and in effect,
seemed more short-story than essay. It
is not a question of literary merit —Lady
Barker is deservedly a minor classic —
but of the definition of a form, which
must be one of the purposes of an
anthology.
Anthologists are, of course, sitting-
birds for criticism on their inclusions and
omissions; and, provided the job is done
with reasonable fairness and good-taste,
one hesitates to bother about shooting.
It would be too easy to fire off at Mr.
Bavin such a list of names as F. L.
Combs, David McKee Wright, Arthur
Adams, C. A. Jeffries, E. Mary Gurney,
Will Lawson, Isobel Andrews, Olaf
Ruhen, Gloria Rawlinson and J. H. Mel-
ville and to demand, as if one had lately
read them all and were positive of their
right to inclusion, why they have been
omitted. But in point of fact McKee
Wright and Arthur Adams, in their
excursions into the short-story, were
probably too slight to make the grade;
C. A. Jeffries (though one retains the
feeling that something from By Rail and
Semaphore should have gone in) appeared
better in the mass than in any single
story when one lately re-read him; and
this reviewer has not had occasion to
examine for anthology purposes the
stories of Mary Gurney, Will Lawson or
Isobel Andrews—though works of some
merit by all of them stay in the mind.
But some of Mr. Bavin’s omissions,
among writers with whose work one can
claim to be well-acquainted, are un-
accountable ... or, perhaps, to be ex-
plained by the simple fact that he did not
explore The Bulletin files before con-
cluding his selection; a most damaging
lapse in research, if it occurred, since
so many New Zealand writers, unable
to find publication in their own country,
have turned to this paper. And that the
lapse did occur one may reasonably
deduce from the fact that only one item
in the anthology—a Maori story by the
present writer, which was available to
Mr. Bavin from other sources —is
acknowledged to The Bulletin.
With a view to future editions one
should draw Mr. Bavin’s attention to the
fact that Gloria Rawlinson’s stories,
besides appearing in The Bulletin, were
thought worth printing in the “London
Mercury” in J. C. Squire’s time; that
Olaf Ruhen, besides publishing ,in Aus-
tralia, has his stories accepted by the
“Saturday Evening Post” for about a
thousand dollars each ; and that J. H.
Melville, whose intricate and curious
pictures of South Island village life one
has not seen published anywhere but in
The Bulletin, is unquestionably one of
contemporary New Zealand’s most
skilled and subtle craftsmen.
Another, more debatable candidate for
inclusion is Henry Lawson—an Austra-
lian, of course; yet he lived in New
Zealand for a time, wrote its best series
of picaresque yarns (crisper than the
amusing scallywag-story by John A. Lee
included in the anthology) and, in “A
Daughter of Maoriland,” one of the best
Maori stories ever printed
Possibly, since Mr. Bavin’s brief intro-
duction gives no clue as to what researches
he has undertaken, and his acknowledg-
ments of sources seem too much re-
to recent publications in
Christchurch, there are other stories
which should have been considered: in
the shelves of the Turnbull Library in
the files of “Art in New Zealand,” which
used to run short-story competitions
and of the Auckland “Star,” which, prac-
ticaliy alone in the field, used to publish
New Zealand stories in the days of Alan
Mulgan’s literary-editorship.
Within the limited scope of the antho-
l°§y space could have been found for
neglected stories by the omission of a
number of pieces by very young writers
which are more a promise than an
achievement of world’s-classic standard;
also by the omission of several stories
which, yielding to the same temptation
as did Henrietta Brake-Brockman and
Walter Murdoch in the Australian selec-
tion, Mr. Bavin has obviously (indeed,
admittedly) included to “document” the
New Zealand scene rather than to
demonstrate the merits of New Zealand
artistry in the short-story — James
Courage’s “After the Earthquake,” for
example.
A. P. Gaskell’s “The Big Game,”
incidentally, though a vigorous piece in
itself, is not equal as a pure story to his
dramatic “The Cave” and was doubtless
selected to show that New Zealanders
play football. One seems to have seen
better stories by G. R. Gilbert than “A
Girl with Ambition,” which may have
been included only because it mentions
the depression and a popular New Zea-
land murder ; and Anton Vogt may have
don© better than his gross “The Acci-
dent,” which brings in timber-cutting.
The documentary plan does indeed make
an attractive picture of the New Zealand
landscape ; but Mr. Bavin would have
got very much the same effect by select-
ing stories purely on their artistry.
Among the remaining stories Frank
Sargeson is well represented by a beach-
comber and “The Making of a New
Zealander” ; Mr. Bavin himself has gay
and effective little sketches of an adoles-
cent cutting his whiskers and a> general
stopping the war to listen to a nightingale;
and there is interesting writing by
Greville Texidor, John Reece Cole and
Helen Shaw.
One notices rather a lot of picnics—
crystallisation of a group of people after
the manner of Katherine Mansfield, but
without quite the lyrical brilliance that
makes her crystallisations seem to glitter
in a drop of dew —and perhaps, for the
weight and balance of the book, too many
stories looking at life through the eyes
of a sensitive child, a device that can be
overworked. But a picnic is a pleasant
thing, and the child’s eye does give fresh-
ness-—the volume, when the criticisms
have been made, remains highly read-
able and, if only occasionally impressive,
creditable and satisfying. Its peaks of
excellence are in “The Glass Wig,” in
Roderick Finlayson’s gay and moving
tragicomedy of the old Maori woman
who roosted in the sacred totara-tree
when the pakeha wanted to cut it down,
in A. P. Gaskell’s “School Picnic,” and,
of course, in the three lovely selections
from Katherine Mansfield.
D.S.
Wilson of Bulls
A question which has intrigued this
reviewer for years is at last answered in
L. J. Wild’s The Life and Times of Sir
James Wilson of Bulls (Whitcombe and
Tombs): how Bulls, which is a small town
in the North Island through which you
drive on your way from Wellington to
Wanganui, got its brief but sonorous
name. It was called after a Mr. Bull.
Otherwise, perhaps the most exciting
thing in the volume is a photograph-
er reproduction of a portrait—of Sir
James Wilson’s Scottish father, George
Wilson, a grand and wild old gentleman
who, in spite of his sober career in the
woollen industry on the Border, looks
with his commanding nose, deep-set and
penetrating eyes, snowstorm of flowing
beard and hair and the noble carriage of
his head, astonishingly like the traditional
make-up of King Lear. It is hardly sur-
prising that this giant of the north con-
tinually bombarded his son in far-away
New Zealand with advice, exhortation
and affectionate, stern reproof, even after
James Wilson had become a wealthy
(though mortgaged) landowner and a
member of the New Zealand Parliament.
Nor, looking at his own staunch fea-
tures, the neatly-clipped beard on the
robust and weighty face, and thinking
of what he had achieved in turning the
manuka, fern and toi-toi wilderness of
(i Continued on page 35)
GRIEF FOR A DROWNED GIRL
When they took the girl from the water
she was wearing,
swollen, but lovely still in the bright sun,
clad as for bridal—she had been preparing
her hair perhaps for the pressing occa-
sion—
oh, it is madness, grief that my wild
words make
wanton with and destroy joy for its
terror’s sake.
Make haste now with the morning and hay
while shines
smiles in the seven heavens, for soon
floods
will stamp down and negligent death write
signs
of total loss through beauty’s gains, scour
roads
of hurt in skin: the tradewind breath clog
on the cargoed dreams and sleep lie like a
bog
over bright eyes. Build me no prayers of
stone
to pity her head by: instruct the wind to
caress
with a stare or a star or a kiss where
love’s bright bone
wears sharkskin or the worm’s for wed-
ding-dress:
and pennies on the bridegroom’s crazy
eyes
purchase no freedom, watch no morning
rise.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


The Brannock device: It’s
Selby’s wonder machine—the
key to your correct size. With
this and our expert fitters you
can’t go wrong.
■))
Even though two people take
the same size, i.e., width and
length, the shape of their feet
differ. Our 157 fittings allow
for this.
mmm
msm
■
n i
MR
mmm
m
:
m
j'
ii
i
V :
tan
m
T 1
B H
-1,
sr
I
Hi
... • -I
Selby’s 157 fittings
at Anthony Horderns’ Selby Salon
So that the fit of your shoes can’t be a fraction out —so that they’ll fit you as
smoothly as a glove, Selby has 137 different fittings. You can choose
from so many lovely Selby shoes, too, in Anthony Horderns’ Salon,
In the picture above you see our Selby Shoe Salon, and in the
inset, one of our expert fitters at work with the Selby System.
Selby Shoe Salon is on the Second Floor.
X
A Selection of Styl-Eeze
models at 79/11.
1. “Sleek” Braid trim
Court in black suede.
Medium heel. 79/11.
2. “Royal” Black patent
Court, white stitch trim.
High heel. 79/11.
3. “Haven” Punched
calf Court. Black or
red. 79/11.
4. “Mitz” Black suede
Court, smartly styled,
braid trim, smart heel.
79/11.
A group of Arch pre-
servers at 102/-.
5. “Taylor” Black calf
Court, self tab. 102/-.
6. “Adilet” Venetian
vamp on allover black
suede Oxford. 102/-.
7. “Astor” Black suede
Court. Braided vamp.
102/-.
' TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
dfg
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ LADIES SHOE DEPARTMENT, SECOND FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401.
BOX 2712, G.P.<


Impressions of a Personal Interview
Prince Philip’s Mother
By BARBARA HENDERSON
WATCHING the Duke of Edin-
burgh at Sydney’s Legacy
House from a distance of about
six feet put me in mind of a
meeting I had with his mother,
Princess Alice, several years ago.
There was a look of firm control
about the Duke’s mouth as he took his
place on the dais beside the Queen, and
there was quiet dignity in his manner as
he followed the slim figure on her tour
of inspection.
As the Queen signed the visitors’-
book with bold, firm strokes, the Duke
popped in and out of demonstration-
rooms, asked innumerable questions and,
in the words of an official, “learnt more
in five minutes than most people would
in fifty.”
It was the vivid alertness, abrupt ges-
tures and controlled demeanor that
brought back Princess Alice to me so
clearly,
I met Prince Philip’s mother two years
ago in Montreal, Canada, in a stuffy air-
port waiting-room. The day was five
degrees below zero. It hurt to breathe,
snow filled one’s boots and I was more
than a little seasick.
The summons to the airport had come
as a surprise, and I had tried to digest
some odd scraps of her Highness’s bio-
graphy as we drove out to the airport—
wheels skidding wildly on the snow-
covered ice.
What I had gulped down about the
Princess informed me that she was the
eldest daughter of Prince Louis of Bat-
tenberg and Princess Victoria of Hesse.
She was Victoria Alice Elizabeth Julia
Marie, born at Windsor fifteen years
before the turn of the century.
As Princess Alice, she grew into a slen-
der, willowy blonde who was confided by
her parents at 18 to the care of a hand-
some, energetic young man —Prince
Andrew of Greece.
The Royal couple made their home in
Athens and Corfu, and the Princess gave
birth to five children. The first four
were girls ; the last, born 19 years after
the marriage, was a longed-for son, Prince
Philip,
Princess Alice was not left long in
peace to enjoy her baby, however.
Months only after Philip arrived the
muttering volcano of Greek politics shot
forth a shower of sparks which all-but
extinguished the life of his father.
Fourth son of King George I of Greece
—a Danish prince placed on the throne
allegedly by British influence —Prince
Andrew had already seen his father mur-
dered and another member of his family,
Constantine, forced to abdicate. Now
he himself was called to account by a
revolutionary junta for military failures
against the Turks. (Reports suggest all
might have been well if the energetic
Prince had been content to remain an
armchair soldier and not take his job
seriously.)
Without British influence the sentence
passed on Prince Andrew would probably
have been one of death. As it was, he
was ordered to leave Greece immediately
and never to return.
A British destroyer had already hur-
ried Princess Alice and her children to
safety in England, the Prince still a babe
in arms. A second destroyer was sent to
collect the embittered Prince Andrew.
Near-penniless and homeless, the
family drifted for years before it came to
rest at length in a modest house on the
outskirts of Paris. It was in Paris the
first chapter of Prince Philip’s restless
schooling opened. He was sent to a small
American school in the suburb of St.
Cloud.
This chapter was somewhat brief. The
power, wealth and influence of the Eng-
lish branch of the Battenberg family
(now Mountbatten) shone out over the
Channel in vivid contrast to the poverty
and uncertainty of the Paris home. Prince
Philip’s uncle, Lord Louis Mountbatten,
was devoted to him. Before the young
Prince was in his tenth year he had left
his mother’s care and crossed to Britain.
Thirteen years after Prince Andrew
left Greece the sentence of banishment
on him was lifted, but he died in Monte
Carlo, in 1944, without returning to his
country . . .
The biographical notes made patchy
reading after that, but from a very
gracious Greek lady, whose beauty and
manners were matched only by her
gentleness, I gleaned a few more details to
fill the gap, as we waited at the airport.
She told me the Princess’s four
daughters had all married German
princes, but that, like their mother, they
had sent their children to be educated in
England.
The Princess had been most deeply
attached to her daughter Cecile. It was
after Cecile’s tragic death in a plane-
crash in 1937 that her Highness’s thoughts
seemed first to have turned to entering an
Order.
“In her sorrow, she withdrew more and
more from public fife,” I was told. “It
was for her the greatest loss . . .”
I had a mental picture of the Princess,
a tall, tragic figure in a long, sweeping
nun’s habit . . . a demure coif concealing
the face, perhaps ... a downbent head
and withdrawn manner.
The door crashed open. My ghostly
picture was wiped clean in the instant by
the short, sturdy little figure which swept
in.
In place of the sweeping vestments,
there were clothes such as a hospital nurse
might wear—a plain grey frock, grey
lisle stockings, grey lace-up shoes and a
short grey veil. In place of the withdrawn
glance and downbent head, there was an
erect carriage, a pair of startlingly blue
eyes and a manner as brisk as the icy
gust that accompanied it.
It was easy to picture this Princess in
a commonsens© domestic role—check-
ing household linen or giving orders for
a party. There was a practical, no-
nonsense intelligence in the clear blue
eyes.
But one could imagine her presiding
oyer any such party with equal grace and
dignity. The prim clothes, lack of make-
up and unceremonious arrival could not
rob her of a very royal charm,
A little reluctantly the Princess gave
permission for an interview. She was
then 68, and, having just completed a
strenudus whistle-stop tour of the U.S.A.,
was obviously tired. However, she was
in North America for a purpose, and to
serve that purpose was willing to sur-
render much.
Eight of us were waiting to speak to
her. We were presented and shook hands,
the French-speaking journalists bowing
gracefully from the hips, the English
shuffling awkwardly in true Anglo-Saxon
fashion.
Then the Princess took charge. She
would speak in French, she announced.
French was the native tongue of this sec-
tion of Canada. It would be more
courteous so.
It was indeed certainly more courteous
so, but the Princess was not allowing for
that curious tradition which holds good
even in the French province of Quebec
■—the stubborn refusal of the English-
speaking Canadian to learn to speak his
country’s second language.
The “name” reporter of Canada’s
senior newspaper, “The Gazette,” who
stood beside me, knew less French than
I did. The reporter from the bulky,
wealthy “Montreal Star” wasn’t much
better equipped. But the Princess swept
on.
She told us she was the founder and
Mother Superior of the Marte Marie
Order of the Greek Orthodox Church,
and immediately she stressed the “work-
ing” nature of her group.
“Most of the Orders in Greece are
contemplative, but mine is a working
Order,” she told us.
I could not imagine this brisk, busi-
nesslike Princess in a life wholly of
contemplation,
“It has been my ambition,” she said,
“to give the Greek girls scope for social
work.”
Members of the Princess’s Order had
gone out as trained nurses into northern
Greece to care for the sick, we were
told. Sometimes their habit had protected
them from Communist guerrillas. Some-
times it had not.
Other members devoted their lives to
the care of the aged—the Order had a
convalescent home for old people—
while a new development was the train-
ing of novices in the field of education.
The Order, then in existence several
years, had at first been established on
the small island of Tinos, off the Greek
coast, but difficulties of supply had forced
its removal to the mainland. The Princess
had bought a ten-roomed house in the
suburbs of Athens. It was to raise money
to rebuild this house as headquarters of
the Order that she had come to America.
“People were most generous to us. I
am returning not only with many gifts
of money, but with the names of volun-
teers who will join us,” the Princess told
us.
Up till this moment such questions as
had been asked had come from the
French journalists. I wanted to know
exactly how long the Order had been in
existence. Laboriously I phrased a ques-
tion, but my French is poor, my voice
soft and the Princess a little hard of
hearing At my third, red-faced attempt,
she smiled, relented, and with one of
those quick, helpful gestures Prince
Philip seems to have inherited, she
leaned forward abruptly and invited me
to continue in English.
Much more efficiently and expedi-
tiously we finished the interview in that
language and were kindly dismissed.
The next morning Princess Alice flew
out over the Atlantic to spend a month
with her daughter-in-law. It was her
first visit to Buckingham Palace—the first
to Elizabeth, the Queen.
Shaken Assurance
I MAY say at the outset that I have
a particularly low sales-resistance.
If ever I am passing through a
store where one of those high-
pressure fellows is magging at top-
speed while demonstrating some
household gadget, and he fixes me
with his eye, my hand automatically
strays towards my pocket. It is, in
human terms, the snake hypnotising
the rabbit.
But when the life-assurance agent
dropped in to the office and began to
set out in honeyed words the
wonderful advantages which I would
gain in my later years were I to take
out another policy I decided to resist
the slowly-enfolding coils.
“You are wasting your time,” I
said firmly. “I simply couldn’t carry
any more. Besides, I feel I shall
never five to enjoy it —I come of a
very short-lived family.”
The prospect of my imminent
demise certainly didn’t seem to cause
him any distress. “But have you
thought of your dependants?” he
shot in callously. “Would you have
your last hours spoilt by the corrosive
thought that your wife would be left
poverty-stricken, perhaps be put to
the mortifying shift of having to
borrow money to plant you?”
And so on. The upshot was that
he sold me some more insurance,
but I knew that at that figure and at
my age a medical check-up would
be necessary, and what I would tell
the doc. would certainly scotch the
whole thing once and for all.
When I presented myself to the
medico and told him what I was there
for he said: “Well, you don’t seem
to have much to worry about —I’d
take a lease of your fife on sight.
However, there are some formalities
to go through. But before I give you
the once-over I’d like some medical-
history details. Just a matter of form.
Any history of high blood-pressure
in your family?”
I told him that both my grand-
fathers had had to give up work at
about 22 because of its incidence,
and that my Uncle Cadwallader’s
pressure was so high his doc. had to
have a machine specially calibrated
S'® that he could take it.
He asked whether I was
abstemious, and about any records
of alcoholism among my blood-
relatives. I informed him that it had
been a tradition for well over a
century for every head of our house
to die waving an empty whisky-
bottle.
For my own part, I said I was
practically a wowser. I never had
more than half a bottle of brandy
before breakfast, and I strictly
limited my intake during the day to
about a dozen schooners with double-
headers as chasers.
I went on voluntarily then to tell
him that I was in pretty good shape
except that I puffed heavily when
going up on an escalator, and that
if I did any exercise more strenuous
than pulling my braces up over my
shoulders everything went black and
my head would spin around. I had
had a chronic backache for 20 years;
every time I coughed heavily a notch
in my lumbar vertebrae slipped out;
if I walked a hundred yards my
ankles swelled up so that if I pushed
a finger in them the dent would stop
in all day; and I was a victim of
such constant and terrific night-
sweats that I was compelled to sleep
in a swim-suit.
I had just gone on to tell him that
a relative with whom I had been in
constant contact had been found to
be suffering from both elephantiasis
and leprosy when he interrupted me
to say quietly: “How long have you
had that rose-colored spot on your
neck?”
“Oh, that!” I said airily. “It’s
nothing. Just a spot of barber’s rash,
I suppose. It couldn’t possibly be
lep”
“I didn’t say it was,” the doc.
replied. “There was something else,
possibly worse, that I had in mind.
Do you get a gnawing feeling in the
stomach sometimes during late
afternoon?”
I recalled dizzily that I did.
“And do you sometimes swallow
your saliva noisily?”
Heavens! The exact symptom!
“And if you laugh immoderately
for long you feel that your back has
gone on you?”
I nodded gloomily and my heart
sank at this rapidly-mounting
evidence of some grave malady.
“Have you”—the doc.’s face was
preternaturally grave—“ever heard of
McGoogan’s Disease?”
I shook my head.
“It’s very rare. Gradual onset.
Frightful end. We’re gradually get-
ting on top of it, of course, though
we haven’t the faintest idea of the
cause. But we hope soon to isolate
the germ—that is, if it is a germ.
It could be a virus. Mind you, I
don’t say you’ve got it, but the
coincidence of the symptoms is too
marked to overlook the probability.
You don’t seem a very good color —
you’re a bit green around the gills.
I think that’s another symptom. But
I’ll know definitely in the morning.
I want you to come around first
thing—the condition of your hair-
follicles in the morning is the one
infallible symptom. In the mean-
time there’s no harm in giving you
the usual examination.”
That night J looked through an old
Home Doctor we’d had for years. It
made no mention of McGoogan’s
Disease, which had probably been
discovered subsequently. But I
recognised by the symptoms he had
mentioned, as well as several others
of my own diagnosis, no fewer than
14 diseases from which I was
obviously suffering, all of which
pursued a rapid and fatal course.
After a sleepless night I went
again to the doc, and he needed
only a cursory examination to assure
me it was not McGoogan’s Disease.
“Sometimes these things are mislead-
ing,” he said, “but it’s as well to
make sure. Put a little zinc ointment
on that spot on your neck and it’ll
be gone in a few days.”
My relief was so enormous at thus
having been, as it were, providentially
snatched back from the grave that I
immediately rushed around to the
life-assurance co. and took out the
policy. I had passed Al.
I won’t try to be so damn’ clever
next time.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 24, 1954
YoL 75—No. 3863
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ,* Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SELLING THE G.P.O.
The- Queen’s visit to Canberra over, and a new
relationship established by the Crown as an actual
component of the Australian Parliament, the two
sides of the House may now put away their
finery and turn their minds to the serious business
of electioneering.
It was to be hoped that into the-campaign and into
the Parliament would now be injected some of the
dignity and restraint which marked the historic
ceremonj of February 15 in the Senate Chamber ; that
the signincance of the Queen’s simple words—“in
a real sense, you are here as my colleagues, friends
and advisers”—would have sunk in deeply enough to
make members as a whole in future act like adults
instead of like spoilt and overtired children, as many
of them frequently do. No doubt most members
share with the Queen pride in the “great qualities of
my peoples, qualities which have shown themselves
through labors, manfully performed,. duties courage-
ously done by men and women, sorrows sustained and
happiness earned.” But sometimes nobody would
imagine that this common pride existed among them.
A fight, indeed, seems to be proceeding behind the
“Labor” scenes to produce a programme which “will
win the next election,” and if rumor is as truthful as
usual about what is happening in caucus and the A.L.P.
—the proceedings of each in these days of faction
are about as secret as a meeting on the Sydney Domain
—the old job of selling the G.P.O. to a Royal Show
visitor is an innocent pastime to what the Opposition
is contemplating in the way of a policy-speech.
It goes without saying, of course, that being headed
by the most vociferous disciple in the world of the
doctrine of freedom from fear, the party will do
everything it can to panic the electorates, though that
wifi not be easy after the successive failures of Dr.
Evatt’s campaigns to herald the onslaught of Depres-
sion, Starvation, Unemployment and various other
disasters whose effigies have fallen to bits one after
another.
Combined with this usual helping of alarmism will
also be the normal helping of attempts to bribe
the old and the sick. Dr. Evatt himself is the father
of one of the devices of this kind of bribery. It was
born in one of his more thoughtless moments last
year, and promptly disowned as an unwanted infant
by the caucus. And it is a measure of “Labor’s”
desperation that a debate has been going on about its
readoption into the family before the poll. This is
the Doctor’s heady scheme for abolishing the means
test during a single Parliament, a plan which his own
followers hastened to declare impracticable, but which
some of them, whether it is impracticable or not, are
now prepared to thrust forward as an election-winner.
There is a certain coyness about the thrusting since
there is somewhere inside the party (Mr. Calwell, he
himself hopes) an unfortunate who will have to take
office as Treasurer if “Labor” wins, and he is natur-
ally not looking forward to the honor to be thrust
upon him of making millionaires, at a single blow,
eligible to draw their pensions. Also, there will be
several Defence Ministers —the more the merrier,
though Canada, with a much larger population, and
much nearer to world danger-points, gets along with
one and a Supply Department—and each of these must
realise that if the new election-winning scheme is not
paid for out of increased taxation, a method which
the “Labor” debaters who promised abolition of the
means-test in 1946 declared to be the only moral and
practical one, it will have to be provided by paring
defence estimates. And this will be awkward indeed
for gentlemen who have been declaring that the
Menzies Government (though, of course, “warmon-
gers”) is leaving the North wide open and practically
offering New Guinea on a plate to the foreign foe.
Apart from this, of course, there are numerous
unions, especially those sections of the great official
“Labor” movement which are still led by Communists,
which look gravely askance at any plan for “feeding
the fat man” something he hasn’t really got at the
expense of the taxpayers. Better, they say, to increase
old-age pensions to the worker and boost child-endow-
ment and maternity-allowances, than to make pensions
available to all and sundry.
Moreover, above the whole controversy hangs the
dour shade of the late Ben Chifley, who cast a cold eye
on means-test abolition, he being one of the few
members of the party capable of doing simple arith-
metic, a subject in which Dr. Evatt, like all so-called
“liberals” in the “Labor” movement, is notoriously
weak.
gdf
%
XOx
E"R
TRIUMPHAL ARCH
Of course the field under prospect for the metal of
electoral bribery is not limited to pensions. Marriage-
loans, a Commonwealth Trading Bank in the time-
payment business at rates of interest which would
amount almost to “costless credit,” housing-loans at
2 per cent, and a few other novel ideas are being tried
on the A.L.P. and the caucus.
“Labor,” in fact, is politically bankrupt. It is a
party which has always lived on an appeal to misery
and to pity. It has been the agent for the sufferers
from hunger and oppression. And now that there are
no hunger and oppression in Australia, now that the
land is fat and no regular worker need be without his
car, his refrigerator, his radio-set, his high-school and
even university education for his children, it has
nothing to sell but delusion and the wares of the
confidence-man. It is, in fact, outmoded and living on
its past.
Do Two Rights Moke a Wrong?
It is a phenomenon so common as almost to be
regarded as normal for distinguished lawyers to be
in disagreement on what seem to the layman very
simple matters. Courts being in the main composed
of judges drawn from the ranks of distinguished
lawyers, there is therefore nothing extraordinary in
the spectacle of courts disagreeing. Indeed, if courts
always agreed with each other’s findings there would
be no point in granting the right of appeal from a
lower to a higher court. Fortunately for the sanity
of litigants and the preservation of law and order, it
is accepted that when the verdicts of a higher and a
lower court are at variance, that of the higher court
shall prevail. That is sensible and simple enough. But
when the disagreement involves two courts of parallel
jurisdiction, it seems that the only thing that can be
done is to declare them both right.
That, in effect, is what has been happening recently
in Queensland. The Federal Arbitration Court has
decreed that cost-of-living adjustments, formerly
applied quarterly to the basic wage, shall for the
present be discontinued. The Queensland Industrial
Court, which fixes the rates of pay for those working
under State awards, has decreed that the adjustments
will still be made. The effect of these two decisions
is that there is now a difference of 7s. between the
Federal and State basic-wage rates in Queensland.
In accepting the undoubted correctness of these
two opposing decisions, the non-legal mind may
nevertheless marvel at the conclusions the two courts
have been able to draw from the same set of facts.
The Federal court refused to assume that the nation’s
economy could continue to bear an automatically-
adjusted basic wage. An opposite opinion was
expressed by Mr. Justice Barry; in delivering the
judgment of the Queensland Industrial Court, he said
that the latest increase could be absorbed “without
any unduly adverse economic effects on Queensland
industry or to the Queensland community as a whole.”
As to the effect on the workers, the Federal view
was that
no real difficulty should be experienced by wage-
earners as an immediate result of the abandonment
of quarterly adjustments.
The Queensland opinion was:
There can be no justification for cutting down
the standard of living of the wage-earner or of the
actual wage merely because the hope is entertained,
and perhaps logically entertained, that the upward
spiral of prices will thereby be baited.
In their appreciation of what the basic wage actu-
ally represented, the two judgments also showed wide
disparity. Claiming that the wage was not nowadays
based on “needs,” the Federal court said
it has now become quite clear that the basic-wage
determined in 1950, in so far as it included very con-
siderable additions attributable entirely to economic
considerations, was based upon economic capacity
and not upon the ethical concept of rights.
Referring to this argument, Barry, J., said it was
not entirely realistic,
as it presupposed the justice of the proposition that
the standard of living provided by the “Harvester”-
wage would remain the standard from generation to
generation.
It is rather difficult —for the non-legal mind —to see
how his Honor arrived at this conclusion without
refuting the definite assertion of the Federal court
that the 1953 basic wage was considerably higher than
the equivalent of the “Harvester” standard and that
its purchasing power was 25 p.c. higher than in 1934.
The Federal court was talking in terms of Australia
as a whole, but reference to the latest statistics avail-
able for Queensland show that the index of “real”
wages in that State has risen 25 p.c, since 1939. Those
figures are supplied by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, but they are supported by the Queensland Year-
book for 1952 (the latest available), which contains a
graph showing variations in Brisbane retail prices and
in the State and Federal basic wages. Both figures
show a higher percentage increase than do retail prices.
Actually it is nothing new for State and Federal
basic-wage rates to differ in Queensland. For most
of the 33 years since the Queensland Industrial Court
went into the business there has been a difference,
usually favoring those working under State awards.
When the Federal court granted its general increase
of £1 a week in December, 1950, making its Queens-
land rate £7 145., the State wage was £6 15s. Tne
Industrial Court thereupon raised its figure by 195.,
bringing it to parity with the Federal rate. The two
rates thereafter stuck together through adjustments
thick and thin until the cost-of-living index-figure, in
December, 1952, disclosed a decline sufficient to justify
a drop of Is. in the basic wage. The Federal wage
was adjusted accordingly, but the Industrial Court,
declaring it was “not satisfied that figures were a true
reflex of the State’s economic position,” refused to
reduce the State basic wage. Despite its dissatisfac-
tion, it has accepted the figures for the four quarterly
periods since—each of them showing an upward
trend. It will be interesting to see what the court’s
attitude is next time the index dips downward.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Man for Barton Needed
The Queen’s visit to Canberra was a for-
tunate sequence to her experiences in
N. S. Wales, since it exhibited to her the
Commonwealth’s position of ascendancy
as the representative of our “one flag, one
people, one destiny” over that of Cahill-
run N. S. Wales.
Whether it was because they were
treading warily with May in view, or
whether the occasion brought to the sur-
face their best qualities, members, from
the rowdiest and rudest behaved
with unexampled decorum. There were
no “incidents” from Messrs. Ward and
Curtin.
There was little of which the Com-
monwealth could not be proud, from
the fine speech of the Prime Minis-
ter at the banquet to the mov-
ing parade of the cadets of Dun-
troon who out-Sandhursted Sandhurst.
The ceremony of opening Parliament had
a dignity which might be preserved on
ice for the future. And the capital itself
looked its best. It seemed a pity that all
its glory and graciousness should fade to
make way for the asperities of pre-elec-
tion manoeuvring as soon as members
realise that they have shed their courtly
harness.
Under present arrangements the Houses
will sit about April 5 and continue in
session about nine days providing Supply
and clearing up fag-ends. And then ho,
for the backwoods and the hustings!
Reports coming in from the electorates
supply an ever-increasing optimism on
the Liberal-C.P. side, despite differences
about contests in electorates like Lawson
(N.S.W.) and fears for seats like Mr. Jos,
Francis’s, where new voters have piled
up quickly in industrial, suburbs.
In Queensland it had been expected
that there might be a prize contest in
Wide Bay, But A. D. Brand, a wily
and experienced politician who was in
the State House as long as 35 years ago,
is to step into the shoes of retiring Bern-
ard Corser —father and son, the two
Corsers had held the seat for just on 40
years. In Victoria there is a feeling that
even Hubert Opperman, whose majority
is only in hundreds, should win. In S.
Australia, normally a pessimist State, there
is optimism. And in W.A. it is being
said that Mr. Burke’s Perth seat, won by
a narrow margin, is in danger and
“Labor” badly embarrassed by its quarrel
with Mr. Beazley, whom it would expel
if it dared. It doesn’t. If he were nomin-
ated as an independent or a Libera) for
Perth “Labor” would rue the day it
parted with him.
Even in N. S. Wales there is hope,
especially after the definite expression of
opinion in ’favor of separation exhibited
at the New England poll. The
hooting of Cahill in the streets during
the Queen’s visit, the coyness of his
Ministry and its Police Commissioner
when inquiries are mentioned are symp-
toms which produce joy in breasts
which had once ceased to hope, seeing
how marked the swing to “Labor” was
a yeai or so ago.
The position of “Labor” is so far at a
discount in N. S. Wales that Liberalism
should be looking keenly round for the
right man for Barton. There is no doubt
in the present atmosphere that with a
suitable candidate Dr. Evatt could be
beaten.
The Weight of Mars
With the Big Four Conference a dismal
failure, and the participants trailing off
to another probable failure at Geneva
over Korea, it is about time somebody
began to make the world aware of what
really is happening in Europe. There
seems to be a comfortable idea in Aus-
tralia that there is nothing doing there
in a military way since all the danger is
in Asia.
It needs somebody to point out that
Russia, which a decade ago controlled
only about 200,000,000 people, now has
about 800,000,000 within its orbit in a
straight stretch of country which runs
from the Behring Strait to Berlin. It
heeds to be made clear that from any-
where in this vast space the Russians can
lash out like lightning from a central
position which would have delighted
Clausewitz ; that the Nato task in Europe
alone —a fraction of Western Allies’
responsibilities —is to defend a line 4000
miles long from the northernmost point of
Norway to Turkey.
The figures given by General
Gruenther, Supreme Allied Commander
in Europe last August, which placed
Soviet air strength at 20,000 aircraft and
Soviet land forces (including 70 satellite
divisions) at 245 divisions, need to sink
in just as deeply as those which make
it plain that the West has only 40 divisions
in Europe and 4000 aircraft, and that even
this force calls for huge expenditure of
money and material to maintain along
with the 125 airfields.
Against the total figures Exercise
Mariner, conducted last year by Nato
forces with 300 ships, 1000 aircraft and
500,000 men distributed from the Arctic
to the Azores, looks small.
Australians who grumble about
defence expenditure, as fewer now for-
tunately do, might well masticate the few
figures issued to give a picture of British
defence last week. For the coming year
the United Kingdom’s expenditure on
defence will be over £A2OOO million,
British armed forces will total 844,300.
Atomic weapons have been introduced.
The new rifle is a current topic in the
United Kingdom.
Much the same applies to Continental
countries. Australians do not realise how
strongly their luck holds in keeping them
remote from the points at which any
day, any week, war might materialise out
of the morning mist and where everybody
must live prepared for such an evil
eventuality.
Many Happy Returns
“In the ACT”: Most people have
regarded the Queen’s expressed hopes
of returning to Australia as akin to the
polite remarks of any guest, or as vague
references to something in the unfore-
seeable future of what it is hoped will
be a long reign. At the State banquet
in Canberra, however, her Majesty was
rather more explicit, referring with
appreciation to the facility which modern
travel offered for journeys which used
to occupy months. This recalled to some
observers the remarks of young Mr.
Downer, of Angas, who was chosen by
the Government to move the Address-in-
reply after the Governor-General had
opened Parliament. Mr. Downer sug-
gested that Australia would like to feel
that the Queen would come among us
periodically “as a matter of course,
without undue fuss and preparation, and
in the discharge of her office as Queen.”
He suggested that a Council of State in
Britain could act “during her Majesty’s
annual absence of three months from
the United Kingdom,” and then stressed
the celerity of travel today.
It is not fantastic to believe that some-
thing of the kind may have been dis-
cussed in high circles during the Queen’s
stay in Canberra. There have been indi-
cations in her speeches that there is wider
appreciation of the role of Australia in
future as a result of our historical and
geographical relationships with West and
East, If the Queen of Australia comes
here more often, as part of a new concept
of the scope, responsibility and privilege
of the British Monarchy, she may see
fewer triumphal arches and hear fewer
municipal addresses, but she will become
an integral and vital factor in the nation’s
life and in its expanding international
influence.
It is fitting to recall a little more of
what Mr. Downer said in the House of
Representatives in November, “The
character, the personality, the goodness
and the inherent spirituality of her
Majesty,” he said, “are such that she is
not simply the titular head of her
scattered peoples; quickly she is becom-
ing their actual leader. If her advisers
mould circumstances so that she may
dwell amongst us, and by precept and
example directly influence us, this will
be a force for imperial unity far more
compelling than any military considera-
tions, trade pacts, statutes, markets, or
the usual appurtenances of politics and
commerce.”
These are interesting words from a
back-bencher who is highly regarded by
the Government. They can be associated
with views held in the highest Govern-
ment circles concerning greater participa-
tion by Dominion representatives in all
future Coronation ceremonies, in view
of new and closer relationships between
the Crown and the British nations. One
high authority in Canberra recently,
while expressing the hope that the next
Coronation would be long delayed, said
it was time for “a little up-to-date think-
ing on this rather ancient ceremony.”
These views, the frequent references by
Queen Elizabeth herself to her wish to
return, and the hint by a Government
member of “annual visits,” may all add
up to action in the not-distant future.
Squeezed Out
If the intention of the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government in introducing some
time ago special rail-freights for bulk
loadings to North Coast towns was to
run out of business the line of small ships
which had been giving good service to
the district for over 70 years, it can now
congratulate itself on having achieved its
objective.
Six months ago, after the North Coast
Steam Navigation Company, Ltd., had
announced to shareholders its first trading
loss in half a century, its chairman spoke
out strongly against the unfairness of the
competition and said that private enter-
prise could not trade profitably when it
had to compete with a Government
instrumentality which was prepared to
operate with resulting heavy deficits.
Requests for fair play were made to the
Government, and these were repeated last
month when the directors announced that
they intended to recommend to the share-
holders that the company go into volun-
tary liquidation.
Last week, two days before the meeting
of shareholders to discuss the winding-up
proposal, Premier Cahill announced a
change of policy. Cabinet had decided
(1) Not to extend the bulk-loading con-
tract beyond Taree.
(2) Not to extend by more than two
months the contract on goods to Lismore.
(The contract was to have expired at the
end of this week.) Final decision on this to
be made after further investigation.
Cahill’s explanation was that Cabinet
felt that the company should be informed
of the Government’s attitude in time for
its meeting of shareholders.
The Cabinet statement did not alter the
intention of the shareholders, who had
apparently already made up their minds
to follow the advice of their directors and
dispose of the assets while there were still
some left to sell. The decision to wind-up
was almost unanimous.
It seems, then, that the North Coast
line is to follow the Illawarra and South
Coast company into history. Possibly
some hardy souls will be prepared to
acquire it as a going concern and try
their luck in competition with the Mac-
quarie-street Socialists, but it is more
likely that the little ships will be sold
separately and will be transferred to other
States, When that happens Cahill and
Co. will have no difficulty in coming to a
final decision on the Lismore freight-
rates. Having served their purpose, the
cut-rates will be discontinued.
Dirt
From London: One of two things is
bound to happen to Sir Winston
Churchill. He will retire from office, if
not from politics, and fruitfully live out
his declining years. Or he will die in
harness. Either of these alternatives must
happen sooner or later.
So much we know. The rest is pure
imagination. There is, though, a strong
rumor that the Prime Minister’s doctors
have told him that he must retire soon
because his duties are too heavy a strain
upon him. That’s natural enough. The
going is tough, as the 40-odd middle-
aged M.P.’s who are not seeking re-
election have found out.
Churchill, no doubt, is enjoying, with
a characteristic boyish chuckle, the smear
campaigns of the “Daily Herald” and
the “Daily Mirror.” “WHEN will the
Prime Minister realise that he is too old,
too ailing, too tired for the job? WHEN
will the Old Man retire?” rants the
“Mirror.” “It is too much to ask anyone
to believe that the lamps of Europe will
be extinguished by the withdrawal of one
Ancient Light,” affirms the “Herald.”
Mr. Eden, too, is passe. “The Golden
Boy who wouldn’t grow up, the Promis-
ing Young Man who had been overtaken
by middle-age without reaching fulfil-
ment” “The easiest thing to praise
about Eden is his appearance” “Sir
Galahad of the middle classes” (the
“Mirror” again).
The truth is that the Left-wing Press
has started electioneering again and this
(frightening thought!) is a foretaste of
what must be expected.
Churchill’s besetting sin is that he is
Prime Minister ; Eden’s that he is next in
the line of succession. So they must be
knocked down, besmirched, defiled.
The campaigners, little men with shrill
voices, know well enough that Churchill,
although in his 80th year, is still work-
ing an eleven-hour-day, seven days a
week, and that Eden has something more
substantial than charm and good looks.
But they have learned —or think they
have learned —tha{ the greater the figure,
the louder and fouler must be the abuse.
It is an old saw of party politics.
But it is difficult to see what other con-
tribution, apart from the doubtful circu-
lation-value of a particularly squalid
newspaper stunt, this combination of sour
grapes and the Big Lie makes to the
political scene. Mr. Eden did not go
to Berlin to besport his well-tailored self.
It is no service to a Foreign Secretary,
whom all know to be patiently trying to
infuse some order in a chaotic world and
to save the peace, to depreciate his
person.
And, irony of ironies, it is largely due
to the “Daily Mirror” that Churchill has
elected to stay in office. For, only two
years ago, it depicted him as a war-
monger with its notorious front-page,
“Whose Finger on the Trigger?”
University Co-ordination
Viscount Bruce, Chancellor of the
National University, echoed the thoughts
of many educational organisers when he
said that the Australian universities need
an overhaul, a rationalisation of effort
and a certainty of finance. He said that
Australia could not support a national
university and six State universities —not
to mention, of course, the new breed of
sub - universities and technological
universities.
In some spheres the position is absurd.
Universities find their arts faculties merely
teachers’ training-colleges, for nobody
now seems to need culture for culture’s
sake. Other faculties deal in matters
which, if they are to be handled at world
standard and to involve research which is
worth while, need huge expenditures and
extensive plant and staffs. The spectacle
of several universities competing with each
other with duplicated equipment is often
ridiculous. It seems that the sensible
thing to do, especially now that transport
has become quick and easy, is for each
university to choose some specialities and
for the others to keep out of its field.
That kind of thing operates in both
the older and newer universities in the
United Kingdom. Nobody would think
of going to Oxford for a purely medical
degree Edinburgh, Trinity College,
Dublin, London and its hospitals take
care of medicine. There is no Cavendish
Laboratory at Oxford.
With the advent of the University of
Technology, Sydney University could well
jettison some of its technical faculties
which aim at providing professional
qualifications, and much of the research
done at all universities could more profit-
ably be done by inter-university effort
in the cloistered shades of the National
University at Canberra. Newcastle might
well specialise in steels, Armidale in pure
learning.
But one of the most urgent needs for
the welfare of Australian universities is
the invention of some method of keeping
out of them the thousands who frequent
them out of sheer snobbery. In most
cases they thus rob the useful trades of
recruits, and fill offices with white tabus,
for whom there is no proper niche except
among the ranks of the disgruntled.
Scientific Fission?
There were some unanswered queries
raised by the Canberra announcements
concerning the newly-formed Australian
Academy of Science, but as the state-
ments came during the Royal week m
the national capital no one seems to have
probed below the surface. First of ail,
the Minister for Supply announced on
February 12 the high-atmosphere pro-
gramme of the Upper Atmosphere Com-
mittee of “the Academy of Science,
recently established with the support ot
the Commonwealth Government.” This
included rocket experiments at heights
up to 200,000 ft., and Mr. Beale added
cryptically that “this programme 1S
expected to expand steadily both m
scope and height.” The next move was
in statements released four days later,
which said that the Queen had that day
founded the Academy when she pre-
sented a Royal Charter to its council a
Government House. .
The official announcement mentioned
that through the Prime Minister’s interest
the charter had been granted in record
time, and the Government had contri-
buted “generously” towards the expenses
of the Academy. There were a number
of references to Captain Cook and t ®
Royal Society of London, and a signifi-
cant but unemphasised comment on past
attempts to found an Australian
Academy comparable with the R°>’ a
Society. ,
The statement said that several sucfi
attempts had been made. “These were
frustrated by the time and expense
required to bring together regularly eve
a small number of scientists. Inter-bta
jealousies and fear of encroachment .
the Commonwealth added to the dim'
culties encountered.” This was followe
by a survey of the establishment ana
work of the Australian National Research
(Continued on next page)


Council, formed from the Australian
Fellows of the Australian and New
Zealand Association for the -Advance-
ment of Science (A.N.Z.A.A.S.) after
World War I. There was a rather
patronising admission that, “within the
limits imposed by lack of funds and
.diffuse membership,” A.N.R.C. had
“done a great deal for Australian
science,” but it was claimed that lack
of contact between ordinary members,
growing apathy and the dependent
relationship to A.N.Z.A.AJS. made mem-
bers feel that there was little chance of
reforming it from within to make a
national body truly representative of
science in Australia.
Thereupon, it was disclosed, Dr. D, F.
Martyn and Professor M. L. Oliphant
had made a fresh approach by inviting
the Fellows of the Royal Society resi-
dent in Australia to become foundation
members of a new organisation. This
group of a dozen had invited II other
Australian scientists to join in found-
ing the new body. The A.N.R.C. had
been “kept fully informed,” and its
annual meeting in 1952 had unanimously
approved the proposals, and decided to
hand over its present functions and
responsibilities to the Academy if and
when that body became effective. “It is
a tribute to the spirit of science in Aus-
tralia,” said the Academy’s announce-
ment, “that, in the common cause, some
150 scientists should in this way have
withdrawn voluntarily from direct par-
ticipation in the government of Aus-
tralia’s principal scientific academy.”
It is believed that there will be 50
Fellows of the Academy in its early years
(27 will be elected this year), and that
within five years number will rise to a
maximum of about 80. There will be
local advisory committees, including
non-Fellows, to preserve the “wide
representation provided by A.N.R.C.” It
is noteworthy that the chairman of
A.N.R.C., Professor H. K. Ward, who
“has taken part in the deliberations of
the founders of the Academy,” is not
himself a foundation member, and the
statement does not indicate if he is one
of the 27 Fellows to be elected. All this
change may be highly desirable, and in
the interests of all branches of science.
It may be fully endorsed by every
scientist in Australia, but the statement
at least leaves this open to confirmation.
Will non-Fellows co-operate enthusiasti-
cally with the Academy which they see
no likelihood of ever joining, and will
this close Academy preserve the open
mind which is so needed for scientific
advancement? Time will show.
POLITCAL POINTS
The Bulletin will shortly be pub-
lishing another Delaney serial by Bant
Singer, In the meantime Mr. Singer
denies all responsibility for the current
Delaney serial running simultaneously—•
though not in Identical versions—in all
four Sydney dailies. This despite the
author’s assurance that the title of his new
book is Have Patience, Delaney.
• •
On the day the Queen opened Federal
Parliament a sour-faced Minister pointed
out that all weather in Canberra came
from N.S.W.
• •
The Royal tour has been responsible
for so many “firsts” that the term “made
history” has already become trite through
repetition. Still, the first meeting in Aus-
tralia of her Majesty’s Privy Council at
least deserves the word “historic.” Held
in Canberra on February 17, it forged
a new link in a chain which stretches back
to the time of Alfred the Great.
Prime Minister Menzies acted as Lord
President of the Council, and there were
four former Prime Ministers—Bruce,
Earle Page, Fadden and Forde —among
the councillors. Others at the meeting
were Federal Ministers Casey and Holt,
Opposition-leader Evatt, former G.-G.
McKeU, Chief Justice Owen Dixon, the
Queen’s private secretary. Sir Michael
Adeane, former Chief Justice Latham
and Federal Ministers Harrison and
McEwen. The three last-named were
attending their first Privy Council; her
Majesty administered them the oath of
office. Sickness kept away E. J. Hollo-
way, the only other living Australian
Privy Councillor, who was also to have
been swom-in.
Although Sir John Latham was sworn-
in only last week, he was appointed P.C.
in 1933. Lord Bruce’s membership goes
back furthest among Australians —to
1923 ; even in Britain only a handful are
senior to him, with Churchill and Lord
Denman, a former Governor-General of
Australia, at the head of the list. Both
are of 1907 vintage.
• •
Not only the A.W.U. is finding unex-
pected pitfalls in Cahill’s Dog-Collar Act.
The Federated Ironworkers’ Association,
thanks to the Menzies secret-ballot legis-
lation, is now free of Communist control
and wants to stay that way. It also wants
to debar Reds from membership, but
finds itself up against the law. Obviously
if it is mandatory on ironworkers to join
the federation before they can get a job
there is also an obligation on the union
to accept them if they wish to join.
And who should be seeking both job
and membership at present but the
federation’s old friend and erstwhile
general-secretary and dictator Ernie
(Balance-sheet) Thornton! Engineering-
shops at which Thornton has so far
sought employment have turned him
down, understandably not wanting to
have on their payroll the man who used
to boast that he made strikes his business.
In rejecting him the employers are quite
within their rights; in fact they would
be breaking the law if they took him on
without a union ticket. And the federa-
tion, although a staunch supporter of
compulsory unionism, won’t admit him.
• •
There seemed to be something
exultant in this Sydney “Sun” poster:
8000 Swelter at Garden Party.
• •
Food-rationing will end in Britain next
July when the last two controlled com-
modities —meat and bacon —will go “off
the ration.” Britain is also putting an end
to Government-to-Government deals in
foodstuffs, a legacy of the war years which
the Socialists would like to perpetuate.
• •
Peace-loving Russia has increased its
armed forces by 150,000 in the last two
years, mostly by the expansion of the Red
Navy. China has four million men under
arms and “between six and ten million”
more in the militia. Source of informa-
tion: the Parliamentary Secretary to
Britain’s Minister for Defence, in reply to
a question asked in the Commons.
Rockets are to be sent to 200,000 ft.
by Australian scientists under the direc-
tion of the “Upper Atmosphere Com-
mittee” of the Academy of Science. It
might be better to defer these experiments
until after the pre-election kite-flying
season.
# 0
Supper at Canberra’s Royal Ball in-
cluded one dish especially created for the
evening—veal cutlets, Canberra style. It
consisted of cutlets in the shape of a
tortoise and with a thick slice of tongue
on top, A chef with a flair for satire?
• •
Despite its complaints of a rush elec-
tion, “Labor” isn’t waiting for the date
to be announced. In N. S. Wales, at any
rate, things are warming : up already and,
according to the State secretary of the
party, C. Anderson, campaigning will
start in earnest next month, with a special
drive in those country electorates in
which “Labor” feels it has a chance of
shaking the Government. These include
Riverina, Farrer, Calare, Lawson,
Gwydir, Paterson and Robertson. The
campaigners will have to shake pretty
hard. In 1951 the narrowest majorities
VINTAGE 1951-52
in that batch were in Lawson (2249) and
Gwydir (2313), and two months ago the
best “Labor” could do at the Gwydir
by-election was to reduce the margin to
1978. In Paterson, Liberal Fairhall got
home with 5365 to spare in 1951.
• •
One batch of migrants has been
absorbed into Australian industry in
double-quick time. Germans, Austrians
and Greeks, they arrived at Bonegilla
holding-cardp, near Albury, last Wednes-
day. This week they commence two
months’ fruit-picking in South Australia,
and when that is finished they will be
found jobs elsewhere in the same State.
• •
Provided Cain’s Parliamentarians don’t
give themselves another rise or some-
thing, the Vic. State Electricity Commis-
sion should be able to give its customers
a cut in tariffs shortly. Victoria is pro-
ducing electricity more cheaply than any
other State and finances have improved ;
for the first time for some years the rates
did not rise in 1953.
• •
“In the ACT”: Experiences of some
strangers in Canberra during the
Royal visit have revived the suggestion
for a corps of guides, to show the way
around the winding avenues and the
nearest distance (never a straight line)
between two tourist attractions. It has
been suggested that retired civil servants,
who now find little opportunity for
amusement or useful occupation in Can-
berra, might be willing to undertake guide
duties for a daily fee which could be well
afforded by car parties of visitors wishing
to see as much as possible in limited
time. So far the authorities have shown
a complete lack of interest in the idea,
though even that good navigator, the
Duke of Edinburgh, needed a pilot car
before he could find his way out of the
capital to the road to Cuppacumbalong.
• a
“C.Q.”: While the original proprietors
of the country were being represented at
Canberra by an artist of their own race,
but not of their art tradition, somebody
has been busy in Melbourne misrepre-
senting traditional abo. art in those funny
little dancing peanuts on a box-kite
erected over the Swanston-Lonsdale-street
intersection. Binghi ought to ask for an
injunction restraining his white well-
wishers from maligning him to his
Sovereign.
• •
Nominations for Leichhardt in the
N. S. Wales Assembly close on March
3 ; the by-election will be held on March
20. One of “Labor’s” blue-ribbon seats,
Leichhardt is attracting a big field of
would-be legislators, “Labor” brand.
• •
Judgment in the metal-trades margins
case will be delivered by the Federal
Arbitration Court tomorrow. The case,
in which the unions are seeking an
increase in margins to compensate for
decreased spending power of money
since the awards were made, was heard
last November and judgment was then
reserved.
• •
On Saturday Dr. Evatt unveiled at
Bathurst a bust of the late Prime Minister
Chifley. At the same time a new Hous-
ing Commission project, to be named
after Mr. Chifley, was opened by his
widow. It comprises 60 homes.
• •
Queerest turn in the Cahill Dog-collar
Act story is the issue by the Bridge and
Wharf Carpenters’ union of summonses
against the Main Roads Department for
alleged non-compliance with the Act.
Other Government departments are also
on the list shortly to receive attention
from this and other unions.
• •
Yesterday Cahill’s Cabinet was
scheduled to consider the appointment of
a new Agent-General, J. M. Tully being
due for retirement in June. There was
a strong rumor that the job might go to
the most embarrassing Minister, Evatt
minor, in the interests of peace in the
party powwows. If that is the basis on
which an Agent-General is to be
appointed, the office might as well be
wiped out.
• •
Further lifting of import-restrictions
on imports from non-dollar countries
was announced last week, the fourth
instalment since the Government first
clamped-down on imports two years
ago. Most goods in category A are now
free of restrictions; others are back to
90 per cent, of the base year, 1950-51.
The permissible quota for category B is
now 60 per cent.
• •
“X.S.”: To Australian' Communists
anything coming out of Russia is sacred,
whether it is a bad film, a poor play or a
piece of architecture that is just as com-
monplace as anything put up in bourgeois
countries. This makes me wonder why
they haven’t followed America’s example
and taken to vodka. According to an
official liquor publication.there has been
a fantastic increase in the vodka intake
in U.S. Four years ago the sales were
nil; three years ago they were 700,000
gallons, and the figure for 1953 is expected
to have exceeded 2,700,000 gallons.
• •
According to a survey conducted by
the U.N. World Health Organisation
Australia has the highest percentage of
fatal road accidents of the 15 countries
studied in the report. America runs
second, then Canada and Western
Germany.
• •
Canberra, here they come! The
Public Service Board has just told
Parliament that the completion of the
new administrative block (still far from
finished after several years of building)
will, “if other aspects of the programme
are in balance,” permit the transfer to
Canberra of seven departments with total
staffs of 2000. The board points out that
this would involve a direct population-
increase of about 5000, to which must be
added the indirect population-effect of
the additional community services which
would be required. The board remarks
that “a transfer of this magnitude is a
major undertaking which will require
very careful and detailed planning.” At
present there’s no vacant housing or
hostel accommodation for the new staffs.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
THE EASY WAY
“Australian men may regard with scorn the
methods of the ardent Latin lover, but at least
he does make love as if he means it. More
often than not the Australian isn’t so much a
casual lover as a lazy one.” —Womens paper.
Your Spaniard aspiring to Wedlock,
Abhors any possible deadlock;
He slams on a muscular headlock
When fair senorita he’d kiss:
Her spine is in danger of cracking.
In his loving there’s nothing that’s lacking,
A punch in his lips he is packing —
Less ardent, he’d soon get a hiss.
When it comes to the mush
It’s his work and his play;
He makes it a gay, fierce fiesta.
Its attractions he’ll rush —
Well, he will, anyway,
If it isn’t his time for siesta.
A Don Juan never defeated,
Of the choicest of charms never cheated,
His blood always gets superheated
When dark eyes allure and invite.
Guitar-strings and lips he caresses —
A touch of his own he possesses —
On intoxicant perfume of tresses
He’ll get “shot” almost every night.
He’ll try out his tatts
On her lug, like as not,
To show just how ardent’s his
passion...
A ussie men think he’s “bats,”
And they don’t care a jot
For this loving in wild Latin fashion.
Hard loving, they claim, is just crazy-
Why tire wooing Shirley or Maisie?
If they don’t want a lover who’s lazy
They can get someone else, if they like.
When it comes to a session of necking
What’s wrong with some somnolent
pecking?
A man doesn’t want to be wrecking
His sheila —it isn’t a yike !
Propping posts up, no doubt,
Is fatiguing enough,
But a joker might live to regret it
If he knocked himself out
Making love “in the rough”
And in THIS muggy weather—
forget it!
N.S.W. S. W. K.
❖ ♦> *
OACK in 1869 Gladstone, as Prime
-*7 Minister, wrote a note to Queen Vic-
toria plainly intimating that she had been
too long away from her duties, “resting”
at Balmoral. He pointed out that public
appearances were “among the substantial
and even indispensable means of main-
taining the full influence of the
Monarchy,” and finished by reminding
her that the new Blackfriars Bridge had
long awaited its opening ceremony. Vic-
toria replied indignantly that she could
not possibly be expected to undertake
“this onerous ceremony during the heat
of summer” ; furthermore, that she needed
a respite from her duties, for, in the last
five months, she had held Drawing Rooms
as well as a Levee—and there would be
the tea-party for the Khedive Ismail when
she returned to London! Less than 100
years later Queen Victoria’s descendant
has listed for one day of her Melbourne
visit an opening of State Parliament,
presentation of M.P.s and their wives,
attendance at an Assembly at the M.C.G.,
and attendance at the State Ball —all in
the heat of summer, and following, too,
her decidedly heavy Sydney and Canberra
engagements.—“Narumee.”
“C.B.”: There isn’t much an insurance
company won’t insure against. Mel-
bourne companies already have a
schedule for any person who wants to
insure his front fence on the route of
the Royal procession. They are doing
good business.
• •- -• 4. •
“Lord Luvus”: These fine points. The
Commonwealth Parliament Mace is a
symbol of the Royal authority, so it can’t
be carried in the Sovereign’s presence.
The Victorian Parliament’s Mace is a
symbol of the Speaker’s office and the
authority of the House, so it can and
will be carried in the Queen’s presence—
if somebody doesn’t pinch it, as was done
on a former occasion. Reason for the
difference goes far back in history. I
hope somebody will explain it all to her
Majesty.
“Peegee”; The Royal Progress was
due to pass the pub ; outside the pub,
a bomb of a car; outside the car, duti-
fully frowning, a cop. He asked a few
pertinent questions, disappeared into the
pub. Reappeared with the swaying car-
owner, who claimed, loudly and truth-
fully, that he was under the influence and
wouldn’t break‘the law by driving the
obstruction away. Last seen of the car
was when a well-intentioned and sober
spectator climbed aboard and drove off
into an unaffected street. Last seen of
the owner was in the Good Samaritan’s
vantage possy, waving happily and
loyally as they drove past.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne Princess, where
the Queen is to survey a Royal Corn-
hand performance of a German opera,
has a history. William Pitt, the first
architect to add a touch of Renaissance
flamboyancy to the austerity of the city’s
buddings, designed the present structure
—the original was a long, squat, wooden
home for barnstormers going back to
1850. Pitt immeasurably improved it,
and it opened in 1886 with “The Mikado,”
with Adfred Collier, the composer of
“Dorothy,” wielding the baton and
Nellie Stewart singing the part of Yum
Yum. Two years later it had the most
sensational first-night in Melbourne’s
theatrical history, when the immortal
Nellie appeared as Marguerite in
Gounod’s “Faust,” and Federico, a noted
Italian tenor, as Mephistofeles, The show
went well until the finish —in fact, the
audience filed out, not knowing that
anything untoward had happened, except
that Federico hadn’t appeared to take
his bows at the final curtain. Backstage,
however, all was chaos. Mephistofeles
had died on thd last note he sang as he
descended through a trapdoor to the
infernal regions. Garnet Carroll, the
present owner, remodelled the theatre in
1945 without sacrificing the gay character
Pitt gave it —the figures symbolising the
arts culminating in a golden angel with a
trumpet.
“Uramao”: When the Duke of
Edinburgh toured New Zealand in 1869
the Maoris (less sophisticated than those
who acclaimed his modern namesake)
were more impressed by the glamorous
garb and the strange foods they saw than
by the Duke. At the reception in Wel-
lington the natives were more enthralled
by the raiment the Duke’s butler wore
than by that of his Royal Highness, and
at the “spread” the jellies—something
"The bill , sir.”
quite new to the Maoris —evoked cries of
admiration:, “Kapai, te shake-aboutl”
& 4 *
“Irving”; When, in the islands up
north, storekeepers used to invoice as
“snakebite antidote” any liquor sent in
response to a client’s order (to cloak a
nominal infringement of licensing laws
which forbade holders of wholesale wine
and spirit licences to sell below certain
minimum quantities), I was once unex-
pectedly called on to play host to a
bishop, who explained that he had
brought with him a case of condensed
milk, which he hoped I would find handy.
Sorrowing inwardly at the episcopal
unworldliness which had presented me
with a case of stuff we carried in 1000-
case lots in our trading stores, I thanked
him and forgot about the gift. Only
when I found, after he’d gone, that the
case contained four dozen of the best
Melbourne ale did I appreciate the reason
for the air of vague disappointment worn
"If you think I'm Pagliacci you've got another think coming."
by his Ludship during his stay with me.
I never had a chance of redeeming my
reputation as a host.
Hijf
“F.S,”: I have been listening to one of
these radio music-commentators “explain-
ing” a piece of music, and a terrible
thought has struck me. I suppose when
we get television we will have the art-
commentators explaining masterpieces of
painting.
* ♦>
“Sebak”: Those fictional heroines
could do extraordinary things with their
eyes (B. 10/2/’54), but they couldn’t
compete with that arch-contortionist, the
old-time villain. Whenever things got his
monkey up he invariably performed an
amazing feat which left him “beside him-
self.” Over the years I’ve done my block
as wholeheartedly as any frustrated fiend
in human guise conjured up by a mid-
Victorian novelist, but I don’t think I’ve
ever been beside myself. If I had been,
some of my disputes may have ended
on a less sorrowful note. I fail to see
how any party of the second part could
land a decisive swipe when he has to
decide which one of the Siamese twins
confronting him is the one he wants to
flatten.
& ❖
“Curio”: New Guinea was not the
only area to issue King Edward VIII
coins, as “H.C.8.” and “Talisman” here
suggested. I have three Edward VIII
coins issued in his reign. In addition to
the New Guinea penny, there are Fiji
and British West Africa pennies. Both
these are of some silvery alloy, and
pierced in the centre like the N.G. coin,
though the hole is almost twice the size.
The Fiji penny has a crown surmounting
the hole and an inscription, “Edward.
VIII, King. Emperor”; on the reverse
“Fiji” surmounts the hole, with “Penny”
below. The B.W.A. coin has “One
Penny” surmounting the hole with a
crown above that, on the left of it
“Edward VIII,” and on the right “Rex
Et Ind: Imp: The reverse bears the
date “1936” in the usual position, with
“British West Africa” circling the edge
of the coin, the figure sometimes called
“Solomon’s Seal” enclosing the hole.
Unfortunately there is no story behind
them; I bought them in a Sydney curio
shop soon after Edward’s abdication.
& ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: I read to a doctor
“Narumee’s” par, about the mother who
was not perturbed at seeing her child
and a milk-bar cat taking alternate licks
at a chocolate-cone. His comment was
illuminating. He said that he wouldn’t
object to a child of his eating after a
dog, but he would strenuously object to
anybody kissing the child. Of course, I
don’t suppose the mother of “Narumee’s”
par. had the same viewpoint as the doctor.
He is one of the leading v.d. specialists in
Melbourne.
“Alma”; Lack of an elementary know-
ledge of Latin was the cause of many an
agonised “Ouch!” coming from bath-
rooms in Italy—when there was a bath-
room. Overjoyed at the sight of wash-
ing facilities, the traveller rushed in,
turned on the tap marked “C,” and was
usually seen sucking a scalded finger and
luridly vowing to remember that the “C”
stood for “catda” and not “cold.”
* ❖ 4
“A. Moral”: On the Aquitania, Aus-
tralia-bound with a thousand-odd
R.A.A.F. types and an otherwise mixed
company, smoking between decks was
sternly proscribed. Came the night when
a party of heavy Naval and Air Force
brass came on an R.A.A.F. man puffing
at a fag in his bunk. To demands for
his name and number the offender replied,
“Morris 840”—-correct manner of identi-
fication according to the practice of men-
tioning only the last three digits of the
regimental number. He then changed
bunks with someone well removed from
the scene of the offence, thereby going
into a well-preserved incognito. All next
day the tanoy blared demands that
“L.A.C. Morris 840 report immediately at
Air Force Orderly Room,” presumably
for hanging, drawing and quartering. I
don’t know if the Nuffield organisation
ever paid the Admiralty for the long
plug one of its cars received.
$ * $
“Dicky”; Friend of ours has a car
called, by those who have had years of
association with it, “Annabelle.” Those
not accustomed to this familiar pleasantry
come in for an occasional surprise, such
as the other night when the driver came
in, looking slightly worn after an
attempted drive round Sydney’s illumin'
ations, and announced dramatically, “I m
not going out any more to-night. Ac o4 *
belle’s clutch is too hot.”


THE YOUNG AT PLAY
Is it clear now, brothers, the way we are
heading,
Whither it leads us, the road we are
treading?
To the world of the termite, the ant, the
bee,
“I” in his coffin, the mourners “we”?
Machinery our saviour, machinery our
doom?
Judge not in haste, we are still in the
womb.
The babe cannot hear though the mother
call,
The puppy has his slipper, the kitten his
ball.
N- 2 - Arnold Wall.
❖ ❖ *
TN a long career of theatre-going I
A have constantly come across that
versatile and distinguished actor Walter
Plinge, and have admired his extraord-
inary ability to sink his personality in a
wide variety of roles. He seemed able
to play tall men, short men, fat ones and
thin ones with equal facility, and he
could portray senility as well as he could
youth. I have often wished to meet him,
to learn the mystery of his talent, but
have never had that fortune. So I was
delighted to see his name on the pro-
gramme of “The Lady’s Not For Burn-
ing,” at Melbourne’s Union Theatre, and
eagerly awaited his appearance. Although
he must be at least 80 years old now,
he gave his usual sound performance.
And then —enlightenment. I am told
that he was a genial landlord of a pub
near the Lyceum, London, who became
popular with actors because, when the
ghost failed to walk, they could always
get “one on the house” from Walter.
For a joke Sir Frank Benson inserted his
name on a programme in one of his pro-
ductions, and ever since it has been used
whenever one of a cast of players has to
double two parts.—“Cauboy.”
*1* ♦>
“Spokeshave”: “Bull Oak’s” diatribe
against the dark, heavy, tight clothes
worn by Australians in a heatwave (B.
10/2/’54) may apply to Sydney. It
would once have applied to Melbourne —
but no longer. During the recent record
swelter I walked along Swanston-street.
The Australian males wore various two-
piece oddments, the most fashionable
costume being singlet and shorts, with a
shirt carried over the arm or no shirt.
The females were almost universally
dressed in a style which 20 years ago
would have earned them a charge of
indecent exposure in public places. The
only heavily-clothed person I encountered
was a Malay I knew from Kuala Lumpur.
* *
“Vingter”; As lively contender in the
Vintage Stakes against the retort “Are
you referring to his Majesty the King?”
(B. 3/2/’54), I nominate the anecdote
"Looks super , sir. If you were in America you'd he voted one of the
ten best-dressed men."
featured by a Melbourne columnist in
connection with the current National
service intake. The yam goes that the
near-apoplectic rage of a sar’-major sud-
aeniy gave way to a beatific calm, and he
oecame dispassionately articulate; “Once
wnen l was a little boy I began to cry
Diiteriy when I lost the set of wooden
hirm? 8 my mother had S iven me for a
oirmaay present. My mother told me to
stop crying because some day my set of
wooden soldiers would turn up again.
And my mother was right. I’ve got the
blanks back again right now!” Turning
up a juvenile present, a “Chums 1917
Annual,” I read the yarn in words almost
identical with the Melbourne columnist’s.
And you can bet it was old when voiced
by some hairy n.c.o, surveying his latest
reinforcements to Hannibal’s legions.
*** *1* ♦>
“Bass”: Those Indian Ocean flights
of Captain MacMaster, the Queen’s
pilot in Australia (B. 3/2/’54), were one
of the best-kept secrets of the war—all
the more remarkable since the Catalinas
which operated it were a regular feature
of the Swan River for a couple of years.
The first Cat. to make the flight landed
at Perth on July 11, 1943, after making
the longest non-stop commercial flight
ever attempted. It had flown from
Colombo, more than 3500 miles over
sea, restoring a vital link in England-
Australia communications. That hop
thereafter became a regular airline ser-
vice. Total trip took 83 hours; the
Colombo-Perth hop, 3562 miles, about
27 hours. The longest Atlantic flight,
from Bermuda to Ireland, is 3139 miles,
and the longest stretch on the Pacific ser-
vice is the 2400 miles from San Francisco
to Honolulu.
i* <♦ *
“Ceg”: Preachers, and use of the right
hand to denote uplifting sentiments, with
the left conveying the reverse (B. 3/2/’54),
took me back many years to a church
near Ballarat (Vic.), and a very robust
vicar there. Before he entered the pulpit
at Evensong the church lights were
lowered, with only the two illuminating
the pulpit left burning brightly. Acety-
lene gas was used, and between these
lights the devil was wrestled with until
the sweat poured off the preacher. Very
red in the face, he would emphasise his
point, first with one hand and then the
other, but it was the double emphasis
with both which brought the house down.
After a terrific crescendo the two closed
fists would come down, bang! and
out went the lights. I think the old boy
timed it that way, because he never went
on, nor had the lights lit again.
❖ * ♦>
“Metax”; My example of official
clarity—a notice on the demand for my
land-tax. It tells me that I must pay
“within thirty (30) days from the day
on which this demand should be received
at the post-office at which letters addressed
as herein are finally received for delivery.”
♦J ♦> +>
“Nakhoda”; Filipino President Ramon
Magsaysay started something when he
let it be known that he would wear a
barong tagcdog at his inauguration.
Although there is a lot of Malay in taga-
log, barong isn’t the equivalent of
sarong. It is an upper-story garment.
which brought in the question of what
pants should be worn by Magsaysay—
should they be black, white or striped?
A strong faction held out for the regular
striped pants, but they go with tails, and
the ceremony was to be held under the
blazing sun of noon. The agitation
spread to the diplomatic corps, who were
assured that thev did not necessarily have
to wear barong tagalog— it would be
proper for them to attend in their
native costume, all the better if dressed-
up in a general’s or admiral’s uniform and
ribbons. In the meantime, Magsaysay
says nothing. He isn’t following but set-
ting a precedent, which leaves it
to him to say what kind of pants
he prefers to wear with a barong
tagalog at high noon in the tropics
at a Presidential inauguration.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“C.A.L.”; This third dimension is
nothing new—l saw an example of it
in a San Francisco saloon way back in
1856. Joel McCrea was the man who
woke me up to it, when I saw him gaze
" and then again he could be one of those eccentric millionaires."
at the portrait of a beautiful girl hanging
above the bar. First he looked through
the bottom and then the side of his rye-
glass, and, by manipulating the tumbler
in his fingers, the girl’s bare back sud-
denly became rounded and her whole
body vibrated and bulged with life. She
even appeared to smile down at her
admirer, and looked very desirable to
Joel (and myself), though I left it to him
to eliminate her infamous boy-friend,
the Barbary Coast’s most crooked, vicious
and powerful leader. So what could I
do but let her fly to the arms of a more
handsome and romantic figure, and sadly
trail out behind the mob when the lights
came on in the theatre?,
$ $ $
“Gui”; Singapore’s famed Kallang
airport having become too small for
modem aircraft, a new one is under con-
struction at Paya Lebar, five miles out.
Construction involves million yards
of earthwork. A cut of over 50ft. must be
close to a world record for an airfield.
Air traffic through Singapore is intense
and includes aircraft of most nationali-
ties. Customs procedure is involved in
almost every movement, including those
between the Federation of Malaya and
the Colony of Singapore. The new ter-
minal building will allow of four air-
craft being handled through Customs
simultaneously
❖ * *
“X.S.”; Melbourne General Sessions
considered a case of housebreaking; which
for cool impudence has been equalled
only by the man who sold Captain Cook’s
cottage to a countryman, along with the
Fitzroy Gardens. Court was told that
accused had broken into a house (which
had been sold by auction a day or two
after) and sold most of the contents to
second-hand dealers. Turning up again
the next day, he sold the £l2O-worth of
property remaining to another dealer for
£ll. Twelve months without the option.
$ *
“Nakhoda”: I see that a Madrid
newspaper is trying to abolish the present
lengthy lunch-hour and siesta in favor
of the good old Anglo-Saxon work-day,
in order to raise the national level of
living. English firms in Java did the
same to the after-tiffin snooze of the
Dutch. The Englishmen sat sweating
in their offices from nine to five; the
Dutchmen, like the natives, started work
in the cool of the morning, ate their
rystafel, and then retired inside their
mosquito-nets, emerging to take a cool
drive round the park before starting on
their gin-pahits at the club. It presently
got around that the English were doing
more business than the Dutch, and after
a painful struggle the Dutchman gave
up his siesta. Actually the English
weren’t doing any more work, as a
glance inside any firm’s offices would
indicate. They were just sitting round
waiting for the tennis-hour, the club and
the whisky-stengah, The Chinese were
getting most of the business ; they worked
14 hours or longer. The evidence was in
the suburbs full of pseudo-Georgian
mansions owned, by the Chinese mer-
chants. So it was a vain sacrifice the
Dutchman made of his pleasant tropic-
ally-suitable way of living. And all the
time the native carried on as usual.
£♦ ♦>
“Old V.A.D.”: Those War II soldier-
yarns of “Sister Ellell” take me back.
In the early days of War I (before for-
ward dressing-stations) untrained society
belles sometimes ran hospitals with pro-
fessional nurses doing all the real yakka.
Their pictures appeared in the glossy
magazines, showing them sorting laundry
or some such vital job. One such lady
wore ruby Red Crosses on her ward-
shoes and a good many almost-as-red aids
to beauty on her face. Carrying a torch
late one night, she was engaged in play-
ing her part of the Lady with the Lamp.
Examining the chart of a sorely-wounded
Digger, she exclaimed; “You naughty
boy—running such a temperature! ” She
passed on, and the naughty boy snarled
“And now I’ll have b painter’s
colic I ”
❖ ❖ *
‘“Bo”: I am all for progress, yet I feel
on occasions that the planners sometimes
make a blunder. Take the present-day
sweet-dish as compared with the old-
fashioned “pudding-plate” of our youth.
The contemporary article permits no
fruit-seeds being parked on its edge, it
being quite rimless. The seeds, unless
they are dumped into a common vessel,
which makes extra washing-up, slide
down into the bottom of the coupd, go
up with the next mouthful and have to be
dredged through the teeth again. The
wide rim on the old article not only per-
mitted surer carrying; with the seeds of,
say, stewed-cherries dotted all around the
rim every kid in the family could count
them. Apart from the excellent arith-
metical practice this afforded the school-
boy, he was able to register vociferous
protest that Billy or Johnny had been
given three more cherries than him, and
the evidence was absolutely indisputable.
Unless, showing precocious signs of poli-
cal genius, he’d swallowed half-a-
dozen.
“Rooster”; J. E. Macdonnell’s account
of destroyer-life in Gimme the Boats!
recalls my dockyard days in Portsmouth
(Eng.), One of our jobs as shipwrights
was to give ’em the works during speed-
trials. And we did! Hundreds of tons
of pig-iron ballast was stowed well down
to give the maximum list to a destroyer
at full speed. She would turn, still flat-
out, and it was ray particular—and appre-
hensive—duty to watch the plumb-lines
below decks. When she righted herself
the ballast was shifted to the other side,
and the stringent test repeated. It’s not
surprising, then, to read that these sturdy
craft can turn almost in their own length.
I cannot recall any greater thrill than
those joy-rides through the Solent and
Spithead— not even in Luna Park.


NPNS69
m
on TAAs 'PRBSSV/VSeo'
CONVAIR and DC6 SERVICES
-iLe Ur**y 119 Phillip St., Sydney. 80526
PERSONAL ITEMS
The jeweller who made the Common-
wealth-commissioned Queen’s brooch in
his private workshop high up in a Mel-
bourne building is decidedly a rarity for
these days—he doesn’t want his name
mentioned. Born in Austria-Hungary
before World War I, he was a master-
jeweller before he came to Australia,
with his own registered craft-mark. He
attended art-school in Vienna and in
Budapest, then moved to Paris, where he
worked right through the depression when
all the big jewellery houses collapsed
about him. The Commonwealth commis-
sioned the jewellery firm of Drummond’s
to make the brooch and Drummond’s
passed it on to this naturalised New
Australian. His signature is a stork’s
head.
• •
Photography happening to be men-
tioned in the interview, artist Quinton
Davis (here sketched by Prior, and rated
by Frank Hurley one of the best photo-
graphers in the country) was able to
produce for inspection the latest Leica,
flash-bulbs, color-filters, and what-have-
you, whereafter it was discovered that
Davis, who has been with Angus and
Robertson for the past seven years, was
surveying in the Northern Territory—
aerodromes and such —in War 11.
PENMANSHIP
Since then he has produced most of the
dust-jackets for lon Idriess, George
Johnston, E, V. Timms, Jim Tyrrell,
Tom Hungerford and most other welF
knowns put between covers by A. and R.
in recent years. Another, quite excep-
tional, claim to note is that he’s one of
the very few real calligraphists still prac-
tising in Australia. Mention of which
art brought out hundreds of nibs, some
of them capable of drawing a line iin.
thick, and on most of which Davis con-
structs his own ink-fountain, after
sharpening the nibs on a stone. He it was
who produced the exquisitely-lettered
address of loyalty and welcome accepted
by the Queen from the Royal Australian
Historical Society. It comprises two
pages of goatskin parchment, black writ-
ing embellished in red, the whole in a
loose-bound Morocco folio lined with
waterwave silk. Tough, concentrated
work, Davis admits; he takes some time
to compose himself before starting on it,
and even avoids walking up a flight of
stairs.
• •
“M’Lander”: Latest knight in New
Zealand following on the Royal tour,
William Bodkin is 71, a barrister who
entered Parliament for Central Otago in
1928, and still holds the fort there. Min-
ister of Internal Affairs. His greatest
contribution to arid Central Otago was
pioneering irrigation which has made
thousands of acres grow grass where none
grew before.
A. P. Webb is moving along. At 34 a
practising barrister and qualified account-
ant, he’s been appointed to the Taxation
Board of Review No. 2, in Melbourne —
youngest ever. A Westralian (Guildford
Grammar, captain), he graduated in law
from Melbourne University, and not long
afterwards into the Royal Navy, con-
voying in the cruel sea. Law’s in the
line —he’s married to the daughter of the
Wilbur Ham, K.C., who for years was
leader of the Victorian Bar.
• •
It was suggested to R. G. Menzies,
high chieftain of the Scots of Melbourne,
that something special should be put on
for the Royal visit —perhaps a giant
haggis concocted in the stomach of the
largest jumbuck in the country, and led
into the Royal presence by the kilted
chieftain himself. Maybe R.G. was too
busy; anyway, the project fell through,
and the great day of the local gillies
remains St, Andrew’s, when the
bagpipes skirl and the haggis is
brought in by the deputy-chief of the
Melbourne Scots, Charles Norman
MacKenzie. A big man, C. N. MacK.
looks in kilts as if he had stepped
out of a Raeburn portrait of a Scottish
worthy. Born at Mount Gambier (S.A.),
educated at St. Peter’s, Adelaide (where
he was Vansittart Scholar), he was a
great athlete ; in 1905 he won the Stawell
Gift. He graduated from Adelaide Uni-
versity to the Bar in 1909, served in War
I, became mayor of his birthplace when
he got back from that shindy, set his
shingle up in Melbourne, has been
president of its Scots since 1934, and
among more typically Scottish activities
Consuls for Peru. One of his two sons
was killed by guerrillas in Java, the other
in an aircraft.
• •
Promoted N.S.W. Regional Director
in a Department of Civil Aviation
reshuffle, Wing-Commander Allan Hep-
burn served for five years with the
R.A.A.F. after collecting D.F.C. with
the R.F.C. in War I. A well-initialled
civil engineer as well, he was Director of
Works and Buildings at R.A.A.F. head-
quarters before War H, and during it, as
Director of Works, he co-ordinated the
huge construction programmes of all
Services —0.8. E. Civil aviation has had
the benefit of his experience since then as
Director of Airports—a position to be
filled by Dr. Keith Bradfield, son of
Bradfield of the Bridge.
• •
For its 1954 season at Stratford-on-
Avon the Shakspeare Memorial Theatre
is putting on four plays specially selected
to give some of the younger members
of the company a chance to show their
faces. Keith Michell, the young Aus-
tralian actor who distinguished himself
with the company during its Australian
season last year, is to play Petruchio in
“The Taming of the Shrew,” the role to
which Marius Goring lent distinction in
1953, Michell is a former Adelaide High
School teacher who took to acting;
judged by the Hotspur and Orlando he
played in Sydney, he should make a
capital Petruchio,
• •
Next Sunday (February 28), at the
Melbourne Shrine of Remembrance,
will be a day for Ernest Milston to
remember. Bom in Czechoslovakia, Mil-
ston migrated to Australia before War
11, and left with the Second A.I.F, as
w.-0.. Royal Australian Engineers. That
business finished, he Ivon a world-wide
competition for a design for the Shrine
Forecourt. On Sunday the Queen is to
dedicate Milston’s Forecourt, and he will
be presented to the Royal couple.
a •
Joined the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development in
Washington, N. S. Mclvor, Enzedder.
For the past four years he’d been first-
secretary in the economic branch at New
Zealand House, London.
“D.R.”: Herbert Carstens, whose
Wynne entry “Quarry” was mentioned
next-in-line to winner Lance Solomon s
‘The River’s Bend” in the Artburst
review (B. 27/1/’54), is a Toowoomba
(Q.) man and a plumber by trade. He
is also president of the Toowoomba Art
Society, a Rotarian and a staunch cam-
paigner for the building of an art-gallery
in Toowoomba. A big, casual man who
favors shirt-sleeves he is, as the Bulletin
noted, a “strong” painter. Kenneth
Macqueen, another painting Downsman,
is one of his chief admirers and encour-
agers. Hitherto Carstens had been little
known outside his own State, and this
was the first time he had entered for the
Wynne.
1 “Uramao”: A kinswoman of the Cook
family, whose forebears moved to America
before Captain James set out to discover
New Zealand, is visiting the Dominion.
Armed with what’s set forth in Cook’s
journals, Lilian Cook is bent on unearth-
ing all that is known of her distinguished
relative. State Director of Libraries in
North Dakota (U.S.) for 25 years, three
years back she followed the navigator’s
travels in the North Pacific, and, on
passage to New Zealand, had three weeks
among Cook’s Pacific islands. When
finished questing, she’ll go back to her
normal interests of ethnology and
sociology
• •
Gone into retirement, James Kelleher,
oldest signaller of the Victorian Railways.
From his signal-box at Taroonga station
he “passed” 700,000 trains and 70,000,000
passengers in his 35 years of service
completely accident-free, too,
• •
Joined distinguished company—Dr.
Johnson, Boswell, Reynolds and Burke
were among early members of the 200-
year-old Royal Society of Arts —Queens-
lander Edgar Alla'n Ferguson, newly-
appointed Fellow of the society. An
accountant, Ferguson qualified for his
latest honor through chairmanship of
trustees of Queensland’s National Art
Gallery, and long association with it.
Secretary under Professors Richards and
Stable when they held the chair, he
settled in it himself in 1948. The follow-
ing year he teamed with Robert Camp-
bell (the first director) and Robert Cum-
mings (fellow-trustee) in an ambitious
scheme to transform the gallery. Result
is that Queensland now has the most
modern fluorescent-lighted gallery in
Australia. Ferguson proposed the Rich-
ards Memorial Prize for paintings of
landscapes of northern Australia, and
has worked hard to increase art-apprecia-
PAINTING
tion in the State. Art is his unpaid spare-
time interest —normally he directs the
Government Tourist Bureau. Earlier he
had been secretary to the Agent-General
in London, within a stone-throw of the
National Gallery there, and directly
under what Goering’s bombers were
throwing earthwards. Hobbies with
bowls, gardening and, of course, art-
exhibitions.
Should motorists see new light-green
and dark-green petrol-pumps up this year,
with the legend “United” on them, here-
under is the man who’ll put ’em up, Oscar
Josephson, who has launched United
Petroleum Ltd., with its projected ter-
minal at the old Balmain (Sydney) col-
lieries. Josephson admits he’s tackling a
big breaking-in job ; he has the experience
to pull it olf On the lee-side of 60, he’s
PETROL
had 14 years with Shell (finishing
branch-manager in Christchurch, N.Z.),
and another 14 with Ampol (in at the
start, finishing associate-director in charge
of Australian sales) —in oil, in fact, since
he returned from War I, France, sergeant
of 2nd Divvy Artillery. Grandson of
Frey Josephson, old-time Sydney judge
and one of the city’s first Lord Mayors,
he has had a couple of trips to the U.K.
and U.S., teeing-up agents and so forth,
and is now ready to start sealing two
3000 ft. mine-shafts at his oil-terminal,
object being to kill the considerable
seepage of methane gas in the old coal-
workings. Rugged-looking, a good talker,
member of the A.J.C., Tatt.’s and Manly
Golf Club.
• •
Heber Albert Longman (passed on in
Brisbane) was one of Queensland’s most
distinguished naturalists. Holder of the
Australian Natural History Medallion
(1946) and the Mueller Medal (1952), he
was an expert on vertebrate fossil
remains, but was as much at home with
spiders, frogs or a new species of plants.
Son of a Wiltshire (Eng.) clergyman, he
came to Australia at the turn of the
century, worked on a Toowoomba (Q.)
newspaper, in 1911 joined the Queensland
Museum, and within six years was direc-
tor, a post he held with distinction for
the following 28 years. Twice president
of the Royal Society of Queensland and
president or chairman of several other
naturalist bodies, he will be remembered
by younger scientists for his ready
encouragement. His widow, Irene Long-
man, was the first woman elected to the
Queensland Parliament.
• •
Into the Silence :
At her famous Geelong farm, Mrs. Janet
Biddlecombe, the grand old lady of the Vic-
torian pastoral industry. Her father, George
Russell, settled at Geelong in 1836, and
built-up the Hereford stud she carried on until
last year, when she sold it for £125,000. Her
Golf Hill cattle scooped every group-prize m
the Sydney Show of 1947. Said to be a
millionairess, she made huge gifts to chanty
which never got into the papers.
At 65, in Perth, Richard Ernest Walker, 013
Digger, long-associated with the theatre and
cinema—for the past 25 years he had been
Westralian manager for R.K.O. Radio Pictures.
War service was with the 28th Battalion, A.1.r.,
rank of captain.
In England, Arthur Broughton Broughton-
Edge, M.8.E., a pioneer of geophysical pros-
pecting. His report as director of the Imperial
Geophysical Experimental Survey in Australia
in 1928 helped to develop use of the science
in this country.
At Orange (N.S.W.), at 69, Walter Frederick
Matthews, M.D., for years an honorary at tne
Base Hospital there, sometime mayor ot tne
town, and widely known for his interest in
Rugby Union. He managed the Australian
team which toured South Africa in 1933, as well
as the Wallabies who were to tour England
1939 but who returned without playing wneu
war broke out. The itinerary of last year s
Wallaby tour of South Africa was Matthews?
responsibility. He served with the
overseas in War I.


CLOTHES AND THE MAN


ABORIGINALITIES
IF EVER the remains of the Ark Noah
piloted to Ararat are found they’ll
probably prove that the gopher-wood of
the Bible was really Huon pine, and that
Noah came from Tasmania. Huon pine,
which grows on the river-banks and -flats
of the wild, wet west coast, is white
(white pine is another name), turning
yellow after exposure. It is very light
(about 31b. per cubic foot, seasoned), has
a fine straight grain and is of uniform
texture. Although a softwood, it is
fairly strong and stiff, easy to work and
bend, fissile, and takes a high polish. It
is easily recognised, once you’ve known
it, by the peculiar smell of its essential
oil, methyl eugenol—which makes it hard
to paint, but also makes it the best boat-
building wood in the world. It is used
also for furniture, doors and sashes,
troughs, toys and for turnery. As for its
durability in the ground, a Tasmanian
Forestry Department bulletin says “Decay
has never been reported.” There’s a
chunk in the Hobart Museum which
dates back to William the Conqueror’s
day.—“Tasmaniac.”
* * * *
“Mero”; In the Motu language, accord-
ing to a Vocabulary published by the
Papuan Government in 1930, “mau man”
means “to grumble, to complain.” Motu
is the best-known native language of
Papua and is generally spoken in the
Forth Moresby area. It belongs to the
Melanesian group, which with the Indo-
nesian and Polynesian groups form the
Austronesian family of languages, ex-
tending from Madagascar in the west to
Easter Island in the east. Is it possible,
then, that this term has wandered still
farther afield, gathering added meaning
on the way?
“Bamekaw”: The web of the St,
Andrew’s Cross spider is striking enough
to cause comment whenever encountered,
The structure is of conventional design,
except that in the centre the maker weaves
a large X of two wide intersecting bands
of white silk. She then places herself
dead-centre, with adjacent pairs of legs
along each arm of the cross. Experts
are puzzled over the reason for this
strange ornament. It can’t be for rein-
forcement, as the web is no frailer than
that of any other garden-variety,
Camouflage might be an explanation,
except that the white cross makes it
easily discernible to birds or other spider-
enemies.
* * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Among the straw-
necked ibis feeding around a swamp near
Perth was one almost white, except for
dark patches on head and neck and what
appeared to be a dark patch on the rump.
It turned out to be one of the white ibis
of the Kimberleys, and this may be its
first reported appearance so far south.
By the same token, the straw-necked ibis,
now plentiful in the south-west, kept
much further north until about the turn
of the century. Gould’s able lieutenant,
John Gilbert, recorded most of the birds
in the south-west prior to 1850, and as
he doesn’t mention the ibis it’s pretty
certain it wasn’t there. It seems to have
worked its way south, following the
settlement of the country. And now the
white ibis may be following it.
* ♦ * ♦
“D.R.H.”: The bulldog-ant is a slow,
heavily-built anachronism. Climbing the
tree in search of the insects that
make up his diet, he stalks patiently
along the bluegum boughs, presently
sees an unsuspecting fly, moth or
frog-hopper and seizes it. With the
prey held securely in his mandibles,
he then remembers it’s a long way
home, whereupon he simply steps off the
twig into space and, safe in his black
armor, falls to the ground. In our sand-
and thornbush-country one may hear on
any warm evening under the trees the
tiny plop as hunter and prey hit the
sand. Away from their nests the big
black coves are quite peaceable, but when
one falls from a tree and lands on a neck
instead of on the sand he was reasonably
expecting, the bulldog takes a dim view
of it. Hence our addiction to wide hats
while under the gums.
* * * ♦
“Shamuseen”: Mention of old Maino
as presenter of an Au-ar, a magic-
making device of the Torres Straits
“What's a Wax-match, Pop?”
islanders, to the Diocesan Museum at
Thursday Island (B, 3/2/’54) reminds
me of another item of armory Maine
had when I knew him—the war-club
which had descended to him as an heir-
loom from his mighty forebear, Kebisu,
who, according to the song-traditions
of the Yam Islanders, was the greatest
warrior of the invincible tribe of Tutu,
Maino declared it was the identical
weapon carried by the chief of the
flotilla which so harried Bligh’s matelots
that Bligh logged their h.q. “Warrior
Island” in tribute to their prowess,
Maino, who seems to have been the last
“I don't think she'll notice the crook printin' from the air ."
of the “rnamooses” of the Blood-Royal
of Tutu, treated with regal choler an
attempt made within my hearing to buy
the heirloom, a stone disk mounted on
a stock of wood. I hope that when
Maine joined his martial fathers the club
found its natural resting-place, along with
the Au-ar, in the Museum attached to
the Quetta Memorial Church on Thurs-
day Island.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”; The French explorers in
the Geographe spread names around the
W.A. coast from the Kimberleys to east
of Albany ; the Yankee whalers left
their mark in the limited sphere of their
operations ; and the meeting of the two
(B. 3/2/’54) is perpetuated in the bay
just east of King Sound. There the
French and Yankee skippers made
common cause, drank a toast to the fall
of “perfidious Albion,” and perpetuated
Franco-American friendship in the name
Two Nation Bay. Somewhere along the
line the name became Two People Bay,
which isn’t quite the same.
* * «
“Fair Mac”: The returning boomerang
(as distinct from the heavy war-weapon)
wasn’t merely a plaything (B. 3/2/’54).
It was a hunting weapon without equal
for feathered game— particularly flocks
of parrots. The procedure was to wait
beside a tree-fringed river or billabong
bearing evidence of being a roosting-
place for the potential tucker. When the
birds had settled for the night the black
hunter would glide to a position giving
him a clear vision and unrestricted arm-
movement, then deliberately make a dis-
turbing noise. Out of the foliage would
dart the startled birds, to wheel in
squawking flight in the open space above
the water. Immediately the abo. would
hurl his boomerang into the flock. It
was then his selecting a spot by an
expanse of water paid dividends. The
boomerang would go twisting and whirl-
ing in the treeless space, seemingly
following the panic-stricken parrots no
matter which way they wheeled or darted.
Every bird struck deflected the boomer-
ang off its course, with the strong
possibility of turning it on to another.
One throw could bring down anything
up to a dozen birds —which is something
one shot from a modern shotgun
couldn’t do.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: “H.A.L.” (B. 3/2/’54) is
astray in stating that Captain Pendleton,
who arrived here in 1803, was the first
to go in for whaling in Australian waters.
That honor belongs to Captain Ebor
Bunker, master of the William and Ann,
who brought a cargo of convicts to the
new colony in 1791. Noting the number
of whales along the eastern coast, as
soon as he had discharged his human
cargo h© set out on a* whaling cruise,
with some success. Bunker died in 1836,
and was buried in old St. Luke’s cemetery
at Liverpool (N.S.W.). His tombstone
bears witness to his early whaling venture.
THE SPEEWAH PICNICS
The Speewah man is long and lanky;
He rolls his hat, he knots his hanky,
And slips into elastic-sides
(Even to catch a horse, he rides)
And throws and brands five hundred head
Of cleanskin calves before the red
Of morning shows the empty yards
And cook and stationhands at cards.
But well before the ace is played
Or dogs have settled in the shade,
The johns show up; and on the plain
There’s riding out and home again
And cries of “Hearts!” and “Do you
hear?”
And stockmen scratching at their ear;
While overhead in the blue fire
Of heaven, the eagle spins his gyre
And sees, where sky meets mirage-water,
A travelling dust-cloud cross the border.
So hang your duds on your best braces,
For the boys are heeled for the Speewah
races.
O Speewah town! O Speewah men!
Where one can drink as much as ten,
Not Barrenjack nor city-slicker
Has half the space or taste for liquor!
So when it’s Race-and-Pigeon Week
And dead-marines flow down the creek
Nodding to gunyahs on the bend,
The whaler quits his mystic friend,
His cod-fish and his johnny-cakes:
And bullockies without their brakes,
And Afghans and their camel-teams,
All, all, get thirsts as long as arms
And break like cattle through the wattles
And track up-river on the bottles,
Where the iron town on the iron plain
Fries like kippers in a pan.
The shanty’s kept by Slab-face Joe;
Men breast the bar and two by two
They sail the schooners down their gullets.
The landlord’s eyes are dead as mullets.
He shines the glasses on his vest
And blows at dust; his lips are pressed;
But somewhere deep inside himself
(Taking a bottle from the shelf)
He rolls about and swears he’ll burst
To think how rock-salt quenches thirst.
But what of Gentle Annie? O
She seems to look for mistletoe
Above the weary traveller’s head,
Yawning as one who longs for bed
That she may loose at last those charms
That brood like doves above her arms.
Her smiles are everlasting cups
And she spills honey from her lips.
O gentle lips, deny that she
Stole your red from the desert-pea.
That when she's done with lambing-down,
We’ll wake—but never find a crown.
But stationhands don’t care for waking;
And Crooked Mick is there relating
To a small circle of select
Swagmen and spielers, a correct
And simple way to win the Cup:
“We’ll put the flaming nigger up!”
The flaming nigger—Doughboy Pete
Props up a gum-tree in the street.
Time flows untroubled through those eyes
Of opal black; he spits at flies
From lizard lips of midnight blue;
His legs pronounce a perfect O;
A.C.T.
And few would judge from his content
He owned the whole wide continent.
The shanty doors swing back and forth.
Men stumble through the blown froth,
Shoulder their guns and whisky-cases
And set out for the Speewah races.
And in the throng goes Crooked Mick
Who rolls a smoke and with the lick
Says on the side to Doughboy Pete,
“The course is squared; you can’t be beat.
Big Bill’s expected with the swag:
We’ll have ten ponies on the nag.
Sit down on Shadder—ride to win it!
There’s half a pound of ‘baccy in it.’
The course? A circle on the plain,
(A single tree keeps watch for rain)
Two iron sheds marked Men and Women,
And full three thousand souls and vermin;
While round about the creek meanders
Where sports may shoot at doves and
ganders.
Our Mick is bowling down the birds
When “Strike me roan!” to use his
words—
“ Who is this streak of dust and lather
Come riding in?” And like a brother,
He claps Big Bill in either arm
As if he aimed to do him harm.
Big Bill! They’d waltzed their swags to-
gether
And divvied up their flour and leather
Down on the bend. At Speewah shed.
He’d rung the board by half a head
(And ere the startled sheep cried “Bah!”
Had stitched it back and called for
“Tar!”)
“Big Bill, you flapping length of awning!”
Mick has not seen him since the morning
When, you’ll recall, a certain ghost
Rode on the plain and calves were lost.
But like all brothers (having laid
Their bets, and other dues being paid)
They take to falling out. At first
It is: Who owns the fiercest thirst?
Then: Who can tell the shortest lie?
And: How much iron would roof the sky?
Until, of course, it’s half-a-crown
On: Who can shoot the other down?
“See that there bullock’s head?” they roar
—The trade-mark on the dunny door—
“ Who cuts it out?” And both cry,
"Done!”
And in a twinkle it is gone.
O Doughboy Pete, what whim of fate
Led you from the saddling-gate
When other jockey-boys are up
And all await the Speewah Cup?
What made you cross in laughing-sides
To that one place? So chance derides
The dreaming extravagance of man.—
The shots ring through the dunny-can;
And in a trice springs from the door
The palest buck you ever saw.
This side the stump, and down the plain,
As willy-willies bore for rain.
He whirls and plunges in the creek.
Nor even looks to hitch his breeks.
O had his choice shown such a pair
Of heels, Mick were a millionaire
By this! But Shudder’s in his stall.
And though they’re racing, one and all
Have left the chiacking to him;
They’re—seeing Peter take a swim.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


T USED to wonder why Steve’s utility
used to progress along the road in
a series of kangaroo-hops that made him
a menace to every other road-user, either
in front of or behind him. Then one day
he gave me a lift, and the problem was
solved. We proceeded smoothly enough
until he switched the car-radio on,
whereupon the ute immediately began the
saltatory performance. A thought struck
me, and I glanced down at the floor —
Steve was keeping time to the dance-
number with his accelerator-foot.—
“C. A L.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Saaedi”: Observed a greenhead Haul-
ing a strenuously-resisting caterpillar.
With the nest about 20ft. away, and
down several nine-inch-high steps, it
seemed a case for teamwork; but the
greenhead’s mates, after gazing curi-
ously at the wrestling-match, passed on
—they may have belonged to the wrong
union. Realising that a corpse would be
easier to handle than live cargo, the
ant made fierce but unsuccessful
attempts to dispatch the caterpillar.
Abandoning this at last, he put every-
thing he had into the outsize job of
hauling the live monster home single-
handed. Half an hour later, arriving on
level ground within 3ft. of his goal, he
was suddenly muscled aside as a swarm
of his fellows rushed out, seized the
prize and bore it triumphantly into the
nest. Thus in the ant-world as in our
own —some do all the work and others
hop-in at the deathknock and grab all
the kudos.
• * ♦ ♦
“H.A.L.”: Friendly seals (B. 3/2/’54)?
When the S.A. Museum and Adelaide
Bush walkers party was making a flora-
and-fauna survey of the Greenly Islands,
off S.A.’s west coat, Alvin Williams, our
photographer, went down to the foot of
a cliff to fish, and the pup-seals gathered
to join in the fun. As fast as Alvin hauled
"I don't s'pose this shiny yellow stuff's what we've been looking for?”
l hos f youn S se als snapped
it hooks ‘ They dldn,t want to
litlnnf nT y -° ssed them to each other
tWw t t r ° + Wlng , a medicine-ball. He
t 0 dl scourage them; the
kind nf Bd> * re S a rded it as a new
thpm Alvm tried shouting at
1T S attracted every other young
the rookery. The rest of us sat
on the crest of the cliff and watched what
looked like a circus ringmaster putting
his performing animals through their
paces. Finally Alvin gave it up and we
had tinned stuff for tea. But we soon
worked out the correct technique. One
man went down and attracted the seals
by stone-throwing and shouting while
another sneaked down to a different spot
and fished in comfort.
• • • k
“G.”; Absence of any fear of man
isn’t confined to seals—it’s common
among most of the birds and mammals
in the waters frequented by seine-
trawlers along the N. S. Wales coast.
They regard the boats as a pro-
lific source of easy meals —the birds in
particular. These I’ve known to fly
alongside a homing trawler, keeping
pace with it, and taking from the hand
small fish held out to them! Whales, of
course, will come up
for air right along-
side, eye the boat
calmly, and sound
leisurely; in such
cases, the only anxi-
ous parties in the
vicinity are the crew,
lest the next whale
come up directly
under the boat. As
for seals, I recall one
enjoying himself
hugely as, each time
the net was lifted,
he lunged and ripped
it in pursuit of a
free feed. This he
did right alongside
until one of the crew
got fed - up and
smacked him across
the face with a rope.
In return, our hairy
friend favored him
with the indignant
glare of a grosly-
insulted gentleman
struggling for words
to express his true
feelings.
“Bellfield”: “Topo” dismisses as a
waste of time “Bert the Carpenter’s”
method of getting a level when no spirit-
level is available (B. 10/2/’54), then
embarks on a much more cumbersome,
complicated and unnecessary process
himself. If the side of a right-angled
triangle is perpendicular the base must
be horizontal; why, then, mess about with
the hypotenuse and driving pegs into
pools of jvater? All that need be done
is to stand the wooden square on its
base, triangle-fashion, draw a pencil-
line down the upright and hang a plumb-
bob from the top. When the taut string
is over the line at both top and bottom
the upright is plumb and the base of the
square must be level.
* * * ♦
“5.4 E.”: “Gulliver” (B. 10/2/’54)
revives that opprobrious epithet “loppy,”
which all good shed-hands, eating their
epicurean four-course meals and lolling
between their laundered-linen sheets,
sincerely hoped had been long forgotten.
However, they should be thankful he
didn’t preface it with the adjective cus-
tomary in the days when the rouseabout,
in the shearer’s eyes, scarcely qualified
as the lowest form of human life, spoke
to a shearer only when spoken to, and
out-quaked any jelly when he finally
plucked up enough courage to ask to
be given a learner’s pen. No well-dis-
ciplmed “loppy,” in the old days, expected
the request to be taken seriously until at
least the sixth repeat, and when he was
at last granted the right to doss in the
shearers’ hut, still walked delicately and
kept his trap shut for the first couple of
seasons. It was a great day indeed when,
at last a member of a team unaware of
his lowly origin, he was able to stride
bowyanged and “Jackie Howe’d” to his
place on the board and snarl at the tar-
boy, “Outer me way! I hate the smell of
"Think yourself lucky — MY mother CARRIED us kids on her back on
Walkabout !”
a rouseabout!” But things have changed
since the old blade-days. I’ve even known
a shed-hand offer a shearer a lift in his
car —and the shearer accept it.
* * * •
“Trickle”: It’s not true that plump
women and men whose weight is more
bulky than becoming are more buoyant
than their scrawny confreres (B.
20/1/’54). For this reason—in the thin
man the air-space in the lungs is greater
in relation to the rest of his body.
Actually, the lungs are a very sensitive
ballasting system, and anyone can float on
his back in calm water if he breathes
deeply and lies still. Only when he
struggles does he tend to sink.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Early settlers along the
Illawarra Coast (N.S.W.) appreciated
the euphony of aboriginal names ; it is
reflected in town and hamlet from Ber-
magui to Wombarra. Just a few at
random: Tandingulla, Yatte Yattah,
Wollumboola, Tabourie, Wandandian,
Narrawallee, Tomerang, Conjola, Tooli-
jooa, Cockwhy, Termed, Cullburra,
Kiama, Bombo and Yallah. In almost
every case the spelling gives the pronun-
ciation, but there are exceptions. Unan-
derra is the most glaring. No doubt the
man who first wrote it had in mind a
word like “unit” when he translated from
the oral, overlooking that most people
would naturally pronounce the first two
letters as the prefix “un.” Result, all
strangers and most radio-announcers call
the town Un-anderra. Dame Eadith
Walker’s magnificent home, near Sydney,
was named with much more vision. It
—and the towering Repatriation Hospi-
tal which was later built on a por-
tion of the original grounds—was, and
still is, spelt Yaralla. However, a town
in N. S. Wales is spelt Uralla, but pro-
nounced by its inhabitants very similarly
to Yaralla ; obviously both were derived
from the same aboriginal word. Just
another hurdle for those who talk so
blithely about simplifying spelling by
making it phonetic.
* * • *
“The Bunyip”: Coconut-fibre makes
good doormats, but at our place that is
not the final stage in the life of this rugged
material. Last spring the edges of the
mat at our back-door began to show
frayed patches, and the puzzle was not
solved until the magpie which always
builds above the cowshed was spotted
gathering new lining for his home of
sticks. Then the dogs reckoned they’d
complete the job—it began as a tug-o’-war,
and to Nigger’s delight Blue lost his grip
and fell over backwards, so they spent
two nights seeing how many times they
could fool each other, after which they
rolled and scratched in the wreckage,
Mum has ordered one of those heavy
rubber mats ; she sees nothing funny in
the idea of husks that were broken open
on sharp sticks in Milne Bay or Madang
ending-up as canine confetti in a Gipps-
land gully.
* * * *
“C.R.C.”: Gardening has been men-
tioned as one of the useless tasks given to
National Service trainees. Perhaps the
Army Brass are better psychologists than
their critics. Soldiers suffering from war
neuroses were encouraged to go in for
gardening to take their minds off them-
selves. Even in France, in 1918,
instructors at the Army Headquarters
School of Physical and Bayonet Training
grew vegetables and flowers in their spare-
time. The commandant of the school,
Colonel Ronald Campbell, a tough
Gordon Highlander well-known to many
Old Diggers, told me the idea was to give
quiet relaxation to men who had been
concentrating on rough stuff like bayonet-
fighting and unarmed-combat. Campbell
claimed that gardening had saved many
an instructor from becoming a nervous
wreck.
* * * *
Noms-de-Toil
of the Victorian Employers’
Federation were stumped when
asked about a “cop-man,” who turned
out to be a rigger on a pile-driver. That’s
nothing to what you’ll strike on a Wes-
tralian Railways construction-gang.
When new rails are being laid, one rail
is aligned, levelled and spiked. Then the
other line is placed in position, and one
man sights along the two rails while his
mate moves along placing a stick across
the rails every so often. The bloke who
does the sighting is a “squinter” and his
mate, of course, is a “squinter’s-mate.”
Both titles are official and are men-
tioned in the award. If the rail has to be
raised or lowered the job’s done by
“lever-men” and “heel-men,” the bloke
on the lever getting twice as big a margin
as the bloke who operates the heel.
Those who shovel metal in the bailast-
pit are officially designated the “hoodlam-
gang,” and there’s a “poker-out” who
unloads the ballast-train. He gets a mar-
gin of six-bob-a-week. The “press-gang”
has more to do with navvies than navies.
It’s the gang which straightens out the
“crippled” or twisted rails.
You can work out for yourself what
a “jigger-borer” is, and why a
“fisher-up, with square” gets six-bob
a week more than a “fisher-up, ordin-
ary.” Similarly, a “linker-in, rail end,”
gets more than a “linker-in, ordinary,”
and they both get more than a “holder-
up.”
The “pumper” and the “leading
bumper” each get a twelve-bob margin,
but my sympathy goes out to the “lifting
and galloping-out man.” He only gets
six-bob margin for what sounds like an
arduous occupation.
GRAVELSNATCHER.
SUMMER-NIGHT CIRCUS
They all come in to the light
Out of the garden and night:
The red-eyed cicada in green
With a rattling belly between
Transparent leaf-like wings ;
The powdery moth that swings
Like a fool towards the flame
And falls back charred or lame
On to the littered floor —
The insects’ burial-ground;
The beetle that sweeps through the door
With a heavy snoring sound
And crashes against the wall,
Then winds up again and soars—
The great brown king of all —
To the hot white light that draws;
The garden cockroach, flat
As the blade of a cricket-bat,
Loose as the drunk of the town
Flopping along and down;
And the nameless ant-like things
Spinning in senseless rings
Up and up until
They reach the flames that kill.
Since summer came, each night
These have climbed to the light
And never climbed again—
Very much like men.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


-Sfi
dfg
\
w,
vvv
(A
A
r
pH if |up 5 "
tl;Jr
mm
m
■Hi
1
m
■
M
■
■S
IS
m
m
■.
fl
m
Saras®
'Tou asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes , Sir ”
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, BENSON and HEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
mm
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE LATE KING GEORGE VI
C fP/sen
S//e sdeM
/(/O'
K .
1
Benson & Hedges Ltd. are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are available
on the world’s most famous airways, including all routes served by the following: —
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAY* • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER LINGUS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM • QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON • AIR FRANCE
EL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES • SABENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS • TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTES AEROS PORTUGUESE* • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET ■ LONDON • W
ta-wltM*
Business Rollery Etc.
Australia and U.S. Trade
In its latest quarterly economic
review the Bank of N. S. Wales
considers Australia has entered
the new year with a general feel-
ing of prosperity and confidence,
and the prospect of steadier cost
conditions in industry has given
grounds for optimism in the
future. Official statistics suggest
that the post-war upsurge of
prices has been checked.
Although prices of imports
fell during the year, so also did
the cost of many Australian-
made goods. However, further
price-increases would not be
surprising because of healthy
demand.
An important factor is that
the cycle of successive adjustment
of prices - wages - prices has
been broken by the elimination
of the cost-of-living “escalator”
clauses from Commonwealth
awards.
Employment has been well
maintained, whilst company
reports and statistics of produc-
tion indicate steady expansion of
output in the face of threats from
imports.
Some industries cfaim that
they need greater tariff protec-
tion because Australian costs are
higher than those in overseas
countries. This, however, should
not obscure the fact that a large
section of Australian industry
should be able to meet competi-
tion from abroad, the bank con-
siders, This should be so because
of heavy capital investment over
recent years, more readily avail-
able materials, improved power-
supply and better labor-manage-
ment relationships than formerly.
The favorable local picture of
production is somewhat clouded
by doubts about the future of
world markets, particularly for
primary commodities.
One of the main factors
involved is the possibility of a
United States recession. The
disposal of U.S.A, agricultural
surpluses and the future of its
price-support policies will have
their effect upon the Australian
economy.
With regard to the U.S. posi-
tion generally, it is interesting
to hear from another —United
States —bank. The National Citv
Bank of New York does not take
the pessimistic view expressed by
Colin Clark in the “Manchester
Guardian.” Clark took the view
that reductions in stock-replace-
ments by U.S. businessmen would
have a cumulative effect —“a
process which goes on and on of
its own accord until the economy
has fallen to an extremely low
level.”
“Mr. Clark,” says the National
City Bank, “recognises that the
downward spiral may be halted
or prevented from starting by
such factors —drawing on the
experience of recent years—as
expanding export demand or
Government expenditures, re-
duced taxes, latent demand for
construction and producers’
goods hitherto unsatisfied, or
easier money. But he expects
contraction instead of expansion
in export. Government and
capital-goods demands, and con-
siders it improbable that pros-
pective tax-reductions and easier
money will suffice to prevent the
spiral from carrying very- far
down in 1954.
“Even at this point most
observers of the American situa-
tion will part company with his
conclusions,” says the bank.
“They expect only small declines
in exports, in Government expen-
ditures, in construction and in the
producers’-goods industries; and
► they reject the opinion that
, calamitous consequences can flow
from such causes They
believe that an abundance of
capital and credit will be avail-
able for sound and worthy busi-
ness projects, which may encour-
age people to go ahead with
investment programmes, and in
any event will keep the situation
free from money-pressure and
forced liquidation.” The bank
does not believe, either, that
there has been the overextension
of credit that has preceded
previous depressions. On the
other hand, it believes that Mr.
Clark “underrates also the
dynamic qualities of the
American economy.”
The National City Bank con-
cludes: “In many other post-
war years there have been fore-
seeable gaps in demand and fears
of a spiralling decline. But the
gaps have been filled, and the
threatened spiral has been
averted or arrested. Post-war
forecasting has, in fact, been an
extraordinary chronicle of
unwarranted pessimism. This
does not mean that sheer
optimism and complacence can
make 1954 a year of further
growth. On the contrary, it
promises to be a year of adjust-
ment, stiff competition and
moderate recession as com-
pared with 1953. It is
plain, however, that the pre-
dominant sentiment of this
country has little fear of such
grave developments as Mr. Clark
expects, and sees little support
for his argument.”
In this particular review the
National City Bank does not
discuss the farm-products ques-
tion ; but in August last year
U.S. wheatfarmers voted for
restricted acreage because of the
large wheat surplus in North
America, “indicating a preference
for restricted production at high
prices over unlimited production
at lower prices.” Cotton-
growing is also on a quota basis
in the U.S.A. Altogether, most
landmen in the U.S.A., includ-
ing cattlemen, are at present on a
considerably lower income than
they have averaged recently.
There has been a steep fall in
the value of American farm
exports, attributed by U.S.
Secretary for Agriculture Benson
to five factors, namely: (1) A
tendency abroad to reduce stock-
piles; (2) decline in U.S.
economic aid; (3) the desire of
non-dollar countries to conserve
dollars; (4) the fact that world
prices for many U.S. farm pro-
ducts are below subsidised levels
in the U.S.A.; (5) the continued
expansion of agricultural produc-
tion abroad. Western Europe is
becoming more self-sufficient m
food, and there has been a
recovery of production in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Tariff Adjustments
Increased tariffs have been
announced by Harrison, Vice-
President of the Executive
Council. They affect cotton
sheeting, paper and paper pro-
ducts, motor-vehicle gearbox and
differential assemblies, and some
tools. The duty on sheeting goes
up from about a ha’penny a
yard to about Is. 6d. a yard.
(Retail traders estimate the
increase in the cost of a pair of
single-bed sheets at about 9s.
and double-bed sheets at 135.)
Australian Cotton Textile
Industries, Ltd., S.A., applied for
the tariff on sheeting. Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd., as
well as others in the paper-
manufacturing trade, applied for
increased duty on certain types
of paper (not newsprint). One
of the principal concerns to
benefit from the duty on gears
and differentials would be Coote
and Jorgensen, Ltd., which aims
to supply 80,000 gearbox and
differential units to the 150,000
new cars sold in Australia
annually.
The duty on U.K. transmis-
sions (27i p.c.) will average £25
to £3O a car, according to the
trade. Duty on Canadian trans-
missions will be 32i p.c., and
m.f.n. 37i p.c.
There are other applications
before the Tariff Board, includ-
ing one from I.C.L No finding
has yet been made in these other
cases.
Building and Construction
Building and Construction,
Ltd., has lost all its £225,000 of
capital and about £70,000
besides, and you can’t do much
worse than that. It was formed
in August, 1951, and under-
written by Mainguard (Aust.).
Its objects were to acquire heavy
constructional and earthmoving
equipment (already in Australia)
from China Construction Co.,
Ltd., in which two of the direc-
tors of the new co.. Lord Roberts
Brown and Edward John Brown,
owned 90 p.c. of the scrip. It
agreed to pay China Construction
Co. £104,500 for the machinery,
to buy other equipment, and to
go into the heavy constructional
and engineering business, and
into house- and factory-building.
The machinery bought from
China Construction Co. was
reputed to be at 85 p.c. of valua-
tion. It included “cranes and ac-
cessories, air-compressors, piling
equipment, bulldozers, tractors,
jack-hammers, steam-hammers,
winches, brickmaking machines,
stone-crushers, etc.”
Of the loss of £242,395
incurred during the term to
June 30, 1953, £152,006 is in
respect of depreciation, writing-
down of plant and freehold pro-
perty and £10,561 of deprecia-
tion written-off. Total accumu-
lated loss, including £53,249 dur-
ing the co.’s initial period, is now
£295,644. Plant and machinery
appears in the latest balance-
sheet at estimated sale-value.
In no large company in recent
memory have shareholders done
their money so quickly and so
spectacularly. In the share-
market optimistic sellers ask 2d.
for the 55., scrip.
Freney Kimberley
The row over the arrange-
ment with Associated Australian
Oilfields, N.L., whereby the
Freney properties in north-west
W.A. are being transferred to a
jointly-owned operating co.
(Associated Freney Oilfields,
N.L.), has been settled, and the
Perth Equity Court proceedings
undertaken by certain share-
holders have been discontinued.
Many Freney shareholders
objected to being offered, in total,
a smaller number of shares than
Associated interests were to
receive, although Freney owned
the strategic properties.
Under the new arrangement
Freney will get 950,000 fully-
paid 10s. shares in the new float
and its shareholders the right to
subscribe for 2,700,000 cohtribs.
Freney will have the right to
take up 50,000 contributing
shares, and a further 100,000 will
be allocated to the underwriters
of Freney’s previous issue
(Southern Investments Pty., Ltd.).
Associated will still get 300,000
fully-paids in the new co. and its
shareholders the right to sub-
scribe for 3,500,000 contribs.
Each side to the deal will thus
be entitled to 3,800,000 shares,
one way and another. The public
issue (taken firm by the under-
writers, Wallace H. Smith and
Co.) is reduced to 400,000 shares
from 1,000,000 shares.
Associated is now offering its
shareholders 1,750,000 new 10s.
shares, one-for-one, to be called
to 45., the same as the existing
issue. Holders of the old shares
are also to be offered two
Associated Freney shares for
each Associated share held.
Litigation out of the way,
the drilling co. is to be “formed
immediately,” and “speedy steps
will be taken to develop the areas
under lease.” Chief of these is
the Nerrima Dome, inland from
Derby.


vV'V^
ssfjf
UK
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
TMlDtCms spuvqs
suofuoh
£&*”?)
(D
0
on
development
Many years have passed
since the days when fuelling
equipment was no more than
a solid-tyred open lorry loaded
with petrol cans. Aircraft have -
been developed to such an extent
that fuelling has become an
operation requiring precision
equipment. High pumping speeds,
micro-filtered fuel and uplifts of
many tons have made it necessary
for considerable efforts to be
devoted to fueller development.
This illustration shows an underwing
integral coupling being connected, pre-
paratory to fuelling a Comet. It is but
one example of the results of development
over the years, which now enable the green
and yellow fuellers of BP Aviation Service
efficiently to meet the requirements
of the most modern aircraft.
*
* N* #
•V.
-
Inil
ft
W^s
&*&*><
lt ,*>■''■
AVIATION
m
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
4/53
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Soft Living, Overspending
For a couple of decades
Maoriland has been bent on
attaining three goals—stability,
full employment and develop-
ment—and is as far away from
them as when it started, but in
the other direction. About mid-
way along, costs and prices were
steady, employment was at
100 p.c., and N.Z. was putting as
much into capital works as it
could afford without upsetting
its fairly comfortable standard
of living. It reached this
balanced position by shortening
hours of work to absorb the
unemployed, by pegging-down
interest - rates to encourage
borrowing and spending and dis-
courage saving, by raising taxes
to build up State departments to
a point where N.Z. now has a
higher proportion of civil
servants than any other country,
and by high capital outlay.
Since then it has carried on
with its short working week,
pegged money-rates, heavy taxes
and large-scale capital projects,
with results which should have
been foreseen and avoided. The
fix the little country is in today
is due to nothing more nor less
than an overdose of several kinds
of stimulant originally adminis-
tered to lift it out of the depres-
sion, which were all valuable
and beneficial as an aid to re-
covery. Had N.Z. known when
to discontinue the use of these
tonics all would have been well;
instead it has sapped its strength,
undermined its constitution,
increased its blood-pressure and
dulled its finer senses by falling
into the habits of a drug-addict,
afraid to go on to a simple,
healthy diet.
But for its record run of export
prosperity it would have been
forced to mend its ways long
ago. As it is, ever-increasing
wealth from foodstuffs, until this*
summer’s drought, and profitable
returns from wool have contri-
buted to soft living and over-
spending, to a point where the
Government now has a lot of
trouble on its hands. Yet there is
still no sign of any general
awakening to the real nature and
cause of the difficulties. The
Government should have enough
technical knowledge and experi-
ence to tackle the situation, but
seems blinded by its unwilling-
ness to face hard facts. Hence its
weak surrender to the Federation
of Labor’s demand for an
economic conference, to bring
all sections and disgruntled
interests together to air their
grievances and grind their
political axes.
As this is election year, a con-
ference of all the discontented
elements will be the forum for a
whopping and acrimonious
debate on the cost of living,
which will become the top topic
for months to come. Any ideas
that emerge from all the talk will
be ventilated again when Parlia-
ment meets in the third quarter,
and after then will be the sub-
stance of an election programme
in the final quarter. In short,
there will be so much talk that
nothing worth while is likely to
be done this year to halt the rise
in costs and prices.
On the production side, what
N.Z. needs is Beveridge’s 97 p.c.
full employment, to replace the
105 p.c. that has ruled year-in-
year-out for a decade and a half.
So long as N.Z. has more jobs
than men to fill them it can’t
expect increased productivity,
which is the solution to the costs
problem. While employers are
crying out for 30,000 or more
men, women, youths and girls,
any dud is sure of a job and
doesn’t have to pull his weight to
hold it. Any pace is good
enough, and New Zealanders
don’t seem to understand that
this is the real cause of the
inflated cost of living, which
falls finally on domestic budgets.
Cheap money aids and abets
the lackadaisical spirit and
general indifference to things that
matter. Experts are partly to
blame for the Government’s
reluctance to do much about
this, for they have been beating
about the bush and have half-
agreed that there is something
to be said for cheap money,
when the harm that has come
from it in many ways is beyond
calculation. Until financial
experts, Government advisers
and academic economists speak
with a united voice on this issue,
N.Z. will have no chance of
escape from interest-control.
On the fiscal side, taxation at
a rate of 30 p.c, or more of
national income is having a
disastrous effect on incentive in
town and country. “Why milk
more cows when the Govern-
ment takes most of the gain?”
This is what farmers have been
saying for years, and it’s a poor
lookout for the 60 p.c. increase
in farm output N.Z. will need in
the next quarter-century if this
attitude isn’t changed. Many
businesses are content to mark
time, which is anything but
healthy in a young country with
a population-growth (births and
immigrants) of 2\ p.c. yearly.
N.Z. will have to rekindle incen-
tive, which is the spark that gives
life to prosperity, and it will have
to do it by shaking itself free
from the controls that are
throttling it.
Accidents in Industry
For a country that has gone
the limit in controlling costs,
prices, the exchange, employment
and most forms of enterprise.
New Zealand has a shocking
record in what matters most of
all—safety of life and limb. If
it were to put the effort into
cutting-down the accident-rate
instead of into regimentation and
red-tape, N.Z. would have some-
thing to show for it; instead it is
losing an estimated £8 million a
year through accidents with
machinery, mostly due to sheer
carelessness.
The yearly total of 35,000
accidents is staggering, equal to
one-tenth of the workers in
industry, and runs into well over
100 a day, mainly an eight-hour
day. Most of the cases are mild,
as would be expected where the
standard of safety allows a lot
of stupid accidents to happen,
but New Zealanders had a shock
lately when they were told that
someone was killed in industry
every three working days, and
three were so severely hurt every
day that they were handicapped
for the rest of their lives.
I. Matheson, chairman of the
Workers’ Compensation Board,
jolted N.Z. a little by saying:
“New Zealand lags behind in
safety-work. The good results
seen in some overseas countries
have been obtained largely by
organising in a way not yet
tackled in this country.”
The public conscience has been
sleepy in the past, and N.Z. is
only beginning to wake up to
the need for educating everyone
in habits of safety in factories,
as well as on the highways.
Precious little progress has been
made since Dr. J. M. Davidson,
British medical inspector of fac-
tories, told N.Z. years ago that it
should do something about its
“bad housekeeping” in industry,
and should set up safety-
committees.
“It’s more a matter of vigilance
than cost. A change of attitude
should pay handsomely. With
its chronic shortage of man-
power, N.Z. can’t afford to have
men sitting round nursing injured
feet, legs, hands or arms, which
account for most of the loss.
Often there’s no one to step into
the job of an injured man, and
production is thrown out of gear,
or someone less skilled fills the
gap and the pace is slower until he
gets into the swing. Altogether,
it’s a costly item of overhead
where costs generally are too high.
Fishing Potential
When fish are often scarce
and always dear in Maoriland,
there must be something wrong
with the fishing industry, which
has never been flourishing or
prosperous and shows no promise
yet of ever being much more
than a Cinderella. This is strange
when the Dominion’s waters are
teeming with fish, and all that’s
needed are business drive and
imagination, with markets on
both sides of the Tasman.
New Zealand’s top-ranking
zoologist, Professor L. R.
Richardson, who is the best
authority on fish in the country
and knows as much about their
habits as most New Zealanders
know about cows, sheep or birds,
can see no reason why the
annual haul shouldn’t be worth
£l4 million, instead of a paltry
million-and-a-half, without any
risk of emptying the sea.
Currents from the Antarctic are
a rich source of marine life which
will always feed and fatten the
fish; all N.Z, has to do is to
catch them in any numbers it
wants. Properly managed, this
should be easier and more profit-
able than farming the land.
Richardson, who learnt about
the ways of fish in Canadian
waters before he came down
south, knows enough about their
habits to tell N.Z. that its warm
and cold currents make its coasts
a fish paradise. The annual
migration from warm to cold
keeps the fish in good condition,
and as good-eating as a fisher-
man will find anywhere. Aus-
tralia normally takes only about
half-a-million-pounds’-worth of
N.Z.’s annual haul, and has been
an uncertain customer, what with
restrictions of one kind or
another, but it should be possible
to put the trade on a better foot-
ing, with benefit all round. Once
Australia is interested, it
shouldn’t be long before some-
one with the capital in N.Z. does
something about this “sadly
neglected” industry.


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE - these words convey to you?
Ip you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be necessary
when the time arrives for you to enter upon your duties; the
responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to give
full information on these matters, and to explain how the Company
may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a person who
has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important subject,
write for a free copy of our booklet, "Your Executor and Trustee",
or telephone for an appointment, without obligation .
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LTSAGHT; SAMUEL HOBDEBN; JOHN W. DDNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73.000.000 W. S. MATTHEWS. Manager.
3
a
33-39 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
0 fleet at:
WAOOA WAOOA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANOB.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australia & New Zealand Bank, Ltd.
nrHESE are days of big business. In
the banking field it has meant a reduc-
tion in the number of operating cos., but
an increase in their size, following amal-
gamations and absorptions. With the
redoubtable Wales (it took over the
Western Australian Bank and Australian
Bank of Commerce) out in the lead, and
the enterprising National (which absorbed
the Colonial, Bank of Queensland and
Queensland National) coming up to sec-
ond place, the ’Asia and Union, two stal-
wart, more-than-century-old Anglo-Aus-
tralian institutions, decided to get into
double harness.
The result was registration in London
on March 28, 1951, of the A. and N.Z.
Bank, which immediately came up into
second place close on the heels of the
Wales. It kicked off with a paid capital
of £A 10,667,500, the merger being on a
pound-for-pound basis. The div, has been
maintained at 10 p.c. (stg.), subject to
U.K. income tax of 9s. in the £, same
rate as paid by each of the two old cos,
before the link-up. The declared aims
were (1) creation of a “markedly strong
bank well-equipped to meet all competi-
tion,” (2) further development of services
to customers, (3) expanded field of opera-
tions, and (4) less expensive building
programme.
Because banking is hedged in by
special legislation and is subject to much
direct official control and interference, it
is claimed that big business and competi-
tion can lie down like lambs together in
this field. Such a claim would be against
public policy in the broader field of
trade and industry generally, where the
interests of the smaller units are very
rightly guarded and protected.
To help finance an extensive new
building and modernisation programme,
etc., and so become more competitive,
the co. issued (in sterling) 1,700,000 new
£1 B shares at 265. each, one for five,
on February 1 last. In terms of Austra-
lian currency the issue added £A2,133,500
to paid-capital, raising it to £A12,801,000.
Reserves will also benefit by £A640,050 of
share premiums. After allowing for U.K.
income tax and with exchange as it is,
last term’s rate of distribution will call
for £A704,055 on the increased capital,
or £A45,810 less profit than was claimed
for the year to September 30, 1953. So
the new issue presents no threat what-
ever to maintenance of the 10 p.c. (stg.)
div., which isn’t all that it looks because
of the incidence of taxation and the
premiums at which the last and previous
new share-issues were made.
It will take some time for the full bene-
fits of the merger to be felt. To date the
co.’s figures, which have followed the
general trend in banking, show expan-
sion on both earnings and volume of
business;
(All figures in Australian currency)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. i —Dividends! — % serves. serves.
£, & & £>
1950*. 700,418 10 p.c. = 518,943 181,475 12,706,713
Currency res. disappears, £4,518,000 8,188,713
1951 . .721,429 10 p.c. = 572,770 148,659 8,337,372
1952.. 701,608 10 „ ~ 560,043 141,565 8,478.937
1953.. 749.866 10 „ ~586,713 163,152 8,642,089
* Amalgamated figures ’Asia and Union at last
balance-sheet dates, f Percentage rate of div. is the
gross declared rate, but the amount is shown after
deducting U.K. income tax, now 9s. in £l.
After allowing unspecified amounts for
taxation and all other contingencies, the
board figured last term’s net result
£48,257 stronger at £749,865, equal to
7 p.c. on £A10,667,500 of capital as
against 6.5, 6.7 and 6,5 p.c. back to 1950.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
only 3.8 p.c. The bulk of the profit, and
the improvement therein, appears to have
come from the investment basket.
Growth in the national income (due
largely to a bigger wool cheque), steady
revival of business activity and reduction
of swollen inventories (thanks partly to
import restrictions and partly to appro-
priate monetary policy on the part of the
Government and the banks), sent the
co.’s deposits, etc. up by £26,430,026 and
pulled down its advances by £27,790,746.
These movements were accompanied by
a growth of £42,761,558 in liquids, thus
further strengthening the co.’s already
strong banking position:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £10,667,500 £10,667,500 £10,667,500
Reserves ~ 8,337,372 8,478,937 8,642,089
Deposits,
etc.* .. 345,630,196 309,420,313 335,850,339
Due other
banks .. 27,768,092 17,650,811 6,452,345
Final div... 197,933 336,026 852,028 ,
£392,601,093 £346,553,587 £361,964,301
Liquids .. 220,579,716 140,847,157 183,608,715
Advances, etc. 168,978,163 202,081,901 174,291,155
Premises, etc. 8,043,214 3,624,529 4,064,431
£392,601,093 £346,553,587 £361,964,301
* Includes unspecified provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Liquids include £21,579,468 (up
£7,174,544) of public securities carrying
various rates of interest, £12,986,082 (nil
at previous balance) of 1 p.c. Treasury
bills and £44,883,000 (up £5,600,000)
frozen on special account with the Com-
monwealth Bank at j p.c. interest. Any
improvement in the ratio of advances to
deposits, etc., should help put a bit more
stiffening into net earnings.
Recent widespread rains have bright-
ened the outlook for Australian pastoral
and agricultural industries. What will
happen in the secondary industries and
distributive trades will largely depend
upon the course of events in the U.S.,
where signs of a recession are beginning
to show up, and its effects upon the
sterling area. Of the two main theories
for dealing with recessionary develop-
ments, one places the emphasis upon
Government spending in order to stiffen
demand, and the other upon letting pro-
ducers and others cut out waste and
shake down costs and selling-prices to a
point where demand revives. Where
Governments place the emphasis will
have a lot to do with the future course
of prices.
On the Australian market the co.’s £1
shares are priced at 445. 6d. to return
3.1 p.c., after allowing for U.K. income
tax and exchange at the current rate.
Net tangible cover (including the new
share-issue) is 435. 3d.
McPherson’s, Ltd.
CHANGING conditions in the year to
June 30, 1953, called the first halt
to the remarkable post-war growth of
this big and prosperous engineering
organisation whose foundations were
laid by Thomas McPherson in Melbourne
as far back as 1860, Chairman S. B.
Holder sums up the situation this way:
An increase in the number of individual
sales from 823,221 to 844,579 on a lower
turnover reflects the general tendency of
trade during the year. After the heavy
buying of the years immediately follow-
ing the war ? users and retailers found
themselves with heavy stocks and reduced
finance; with the general decline in busi-
ness they endeavored for a time to live on
their stocks and now are buying in smaller
quantities to meet their current require-
ments. This gives a truer picture of the
actual demand and enables us to organise
our ordering, both local and overseas, and
the production in our own factories, on a
more realistic basis.
Nevertheless, the market has no fears
for the co.’s future, or for the 10 p.c.
div., which was earned last term with
plenty to spare. It prices the £1 shares at
425. to return 4.8 p.c. on that basis. Net
assets cover is 375. lOd.
McPherson’s factories (three in Vic-
toria, one in N. S. Wales) turn out
machine-tools, bolts and nuts, rivets,
dogspikes, electrical ironwork and a
variety of pumps. Besides these products,
its warehouses in the five mainland
States distribute a wide range of machine-
tools and machinery, workshop equip-
ment, general engineering supplies,
builders’ supplies, and trade-tools. There
are four subsidiaries, making twist-drills,
taps and dies, bolts and nuts, machine-
tools, etc.; and four associated cos.
which produce tungsten-carbide, files,
abrasives and transmission-chain.
Since the public became interested in
1944, shareholders have put up no less
than £2,168,791 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £486,087 of share-pre-
miums. The last £692,501 was gathered
at par in October, 1952, lifting paid capi-
tal to £2,951,690, including £lBO,BOO in
“E” (employees’) shares.
Surplus profits have built a strong
support for capital, thanks to the board’s
conservative div, policy: — (
Parent Only.
r Dividends \ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. “B” Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 257,374 11 8 = 106,232 151,142 1,419,507
Excess tax provision, £lBl3 .. 1,421,320
From specific reserves, £30,723 .. 1,452,503
Bonus from associate, £6390 .. . . 1,458,433
1949.. 262,004 13 10 = 132,845 129,159 1,587,592
Excess tax provision, £2816 .. 1,590,408
Prom specific reserves, £2OB .. 1,590,616
1950.. 301,574 16 10 = 134,529 167,045 1,757,661
1951.. 429,235 15 10 = 206,788 222,447 1,980,108
Excess tax provision, £47,250 .. 2,027,358
Loss sale assets, £825 .. .. 2,026,533
1952.. 481,645 15 10 = 231,779 249,866 2,276,399
Profit sale shares, £16,5i6 .. . • 2,292,915
Bonus from associate, £7770 .. . • 2,300,685
1953.. 475,320 15 10 = 304,209 171,111 2,471.796
The slip in last term’s sales (down
£764,453) occurred in the second half of
the year—the figures to December, 1952,
were a little better than those for the
corresponding previous period:
Revenue— 1951. 1952. 1958.
Sales .. .. £8,170,713 £10,391,411 £9,626,958
Divs. subsids... 17,122 20,138 27,829
Divs. associates,
etc. .. .. 7,537 6,553 6,298
Total .. £8,195,372 £10,418,102 £9,661,085
Outgo—
Exes., etc.* .. 7,218,566 9.411,322 8,670,988
Depreciation .. 121,021 130,835 120,977
Tax provision.. 426,550 394,300 393,800
Total ~£7,766,137 £9,936,457 £9,185,765
Net profit .. 429,235 481,645 475,320
* Includes cost of goods sold.
Overall percentage of gross profit to
sales by the warehouses again dropped
slightly, although price-control on the
co.’s lines had practically ceased. Exes,
continued to grow, but the smaller profits
from the warehouses were largely offset
by better returns from the factories. The
upshot was that after depreciation (down
£9858) and tax (down £500) at the old
rates, net profit was only £6325 lower at
£475,320. That was 16.1 p.c. on total
capital as against 21.5, 21.6, 23.5 and
20.1 p.c. back to 1949, Tax cuts should
add another: 3 p.c. or so to the latest
figure.
McPherson’s share of the subsidiaries’
profits fell £44,517 to £34,095 (9.6 p.c. on
capital invested). The associated cos.,
excepting Renold Chains, had “reason-
ably satisfactory years.” Sales by the
newly-established chain co. haven’t been
sufficient to produce a profit, partly due
to heavy imports before the local product
came on the market and partly to higher
production costs in Australia.
During the year the already-strong
financial position became stronger:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,988,079 £2,237,989 £2,951,690
Reserves ... .. 1,980,110 2,276,401 2,471,798
Bank overdraft .. 351,767 1,225,299 10,407
Creditors .. . . 879,143 744,710 398,511
Owing to subsi.d... 21,940 28,365 21,663
Tax provision ~ 427,630 356,262 393,625
Final div. .. 206,788 231,779 804,209
£5,855,457 £7,100,805 £6.551,903
Freeholds ~ .. 561,591 580,486 608,995
Plant, etc. .. 529,526 656.789 687,334
Shares in subsid.. . 288,445 334,352 355,172
Other shares .. 215,778 248,777 256,548
Stocks .. . . 2,331,172 8,210,473 3,106,639
Debtors . . . . 1,853,098 2,038,796 1,509,596
Owing by subsid... 29,993 29,886 25,995
Cash and bonds .. 45,854 17246 1,624
£5,855,457 £7,100,805 £6,551,903
Fresh capital (£713,701), with retained
profits and the proceeds of reductions
in stocks (down £103,834) and book-
debts (down £529,200), was used to slash
£1,214,892 off the overdraft and £346,199
off the amounts coming to creditors.
The outlook appears to be for a fairly
steady result in the current term. Trade
generally has picked up since June 30,
and McPherson’s board is confident that
the co. will continue to obtain its share
of the business offering, which it is well
equipped to do.
Australian General Insurance
COUND insurance scrip always com-
mands a high premium in the market.
That is because of the security offered
for both capital and income, combined
with prospects of future benefits. The
dividend is usually covered, more or less,
by returns from a wad of Government
and other securities, leaving the under-
writing surplus, or most of it, available
to swell investments and the returns
therefrom. This policy of profits-alloca-
tion ensures strong and steadily-mounting
reserves, with a consequent high over-all
earning-power in relation to capital, and,
at intervals, increases in the div. and/or
other benefits.
Shareholders in this 40-year-old Syd-
ney-controlled fire, marine and accident
office, whose underwriting activities are
confined to the Commonwealth, are now
reaping the benefits of the board’s sound
policy of keeping the div, moderate dur-
ing the early years and building up
reserves. No bonus-scrip has been issued
to date, but net premium income has
nearly quadrupled over the last seven
years, the loss rate has been moderate, a
firm hold has been kept upon controllable
outgoings, and surplus earnings have
shown marked improvement. The div.
was lifted from 10 p.c. in 1947 to 12 p.c.
and then \l\ p.c. in 1949. It has been
kept on an even keel since, and looks like
remaining steady for some time.
Those on the register, who put up an
extra 3s. a share in 1949, now welcome
a request for a further ss. a share, pay-
able March 31, 1954. It will lift paid
capital to £150,000 in 200,000 £1 shares
paid to 15s. each, on which 12i p.c. will
call for £18,750, or £4622 more than last
term’s net return from investments
(£14,128). Income from the £50,000 of
fresh capital will help to narrow the gap,
of course.
The market now prices the lOs.-paid
shares at 375. 3d. (355. a year ago), mak-
ing total cost at March 31 425. Bd.,
including brokerage. The return at
425. Bd. is 4.4 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div.
basis. Including the new capital, net
tangible cover is 525. sd. per share, of
which 17s. 6d. is represented by a
reserve for unexpired risks (£175,000).
The co.’s underwriting experiences
compare as follows:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1939.. £98,988 £47,910 £44,809 48.4 44.7
1946.. 113,409 67,809 46,168 60.9 40.7
1948.. 169,310 78,056 66,781 46.0 39.4
1949.. 198,77 4 87,077 8 5,486 48.8 43.0
1960.. 236,870 110,394 95,292 46.6 40.2
1951.. 349,304 164,269 137,823 47.0 39.4
1952.. 409,330 202,394 164,418 49.4 40.1
1953.. 426,400 212,154 181,172 49.7 42.0
The rate of expansion eased last term,
when the growth in net premiums was
£17,070 as against £60,026 for the previ-
ous year. Claims ran away with an
extra 6s. p.c. and exes, with an additional
48s. p.c. of net premiums.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£33,074 (down £9449), of which £ll,OOO
(down £13,000) was added to the reserve
for unexpired risks, making it £175,000,
or 41 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
which is more than is usually considered
adequate for this purpose.
The net underwriting surplus was
thus £22,074 (up £3551), which,
with the net return from invest-
ments (£14,128, up £1585), made
the total amount available for distribu-
tion £36,202. That was equal to 21.4
p.c. on £150,000 of capital, of which


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices;
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
'
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest lectures
cl high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BmUi entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent* —
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH ..
.. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
.. Pardon & Sons Ltd.
• •Docket Book do, (Auit.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fl!her
Cylinder
dfg
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
GREASES
SPRAYS
TYRES
IMCIORS HUD MACHINES
CROPS HKD TREES
Takes the hard work out of tyre pumping
and hand greasing ... Saves enough time to
pay for itself quickly ... A QUALITY product
with the Mobilco 6 months' guarantee.
" as
MOBILCO
COMBINATION
COMPRESSOR - PUMP fits any
Hi
/'■'Hi
/
\\7.
&
make of tractor
Pumping tyres was hard, but not with
the Mobilco Compressor . . . Greasing
implements was hard (and you often
wasted time trying to push grease
through) . . . but not with the Mobilco
Compressor and Grease Gun. They give
you POWER GREASING . . . And a
special pump conversion kit gives you a
handy boom or nozzle type water or
chemical spray as well.
And you're buying quality a first class
article, built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months . . .
REMEMBER IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND
ALL MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS.
"A3NQAS '„ODIiaOW» : SWVd93l3i USdWVD '3aVdVd Hinos LV
an iNiwdinDi ivimsnaNi maow
You will want to know more
abo ut this handiest of farm aids.
Send the coupon now and you
will get a very prompt reply. Just
address it to Mobilco, Mitcham,
Victoria.
POST THIS COUPON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without
obligation, all details of the MOBILCO
COMPRESSOR/PUMP.
Name ,
Address.—
14.7 p.c, was in respect, of under-
writing and 9.4 p.c. investments.
After payment of the 12 % p.c.
div. (£12,500), £23,702, or nearly
two-thirds of the year’s net earn-
ings, was added to free reserves,
lifting them to £199,073. So far
as earnings are concerned, these
reserves also have the support
and assistance of the provision
for unexpired risks.
Policyholders and shareholders
are well protected, as the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Reserves .. 296,806 339,372 374,073
Liabilities ~. 157,012 169,856 193,688
Tax reseiVe 27,000 25,750 39,600
Final div... 6,250 6,250 6,250
£587,068 £641,228 £713,611
Freeholds .. 28,379 28,379 28,379
Mortgages .. 24,780 23,348 22,155
Debentures * 35,750 30,284 28,500
Shares other
cos. .. 108,503 122,656 153,786
Government
securities.. 325,251 367,989 404,741
Book debts,. 39',615 43,436 47,703
Cash, etc. .. 24,790 25,136 28,398
£587,068 £641,228 £713,611
* Includes fixed deposits.
Chief movements in the structure
last term were net additions of
£36,752 to Government securities
and £31,079 to shareholdings.
These two items account for
56.7 p.c. and 21.5 p.c. respectively
of total assets, and the move-
ments therein augur well for the
return from investments.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
WHEN the old Q.M.E. was
split in twain in 1915, the
pastoral properties passed to
Australian Stock Breeders and
the meat-works (at Townsville
and Brisbane) to the present co.,
whose history reflects the ups
and downs of the international
meat trade, as well as a struggle
against fluctuating seasonal con-
ditions and steadily rising costs.
Since the war a lot of money
has been spent on additions and
improvements to plant, etc.,
especially at Ross River, where a
new freezing-block came into
operation in 1950, and the board
has given more attention to the
development of markets in the
southern States. A small sub-
sidiary looks after the canmaking
section of the business, and the
parent holds a substantial but
unstated share-interest in the
Singapore Cold Storage Co.,
which operates at Singapore.
Shareholders, however, have
never had much out of the busi-
ness. After divs, averaging
5.8 p.c, for the first five years,
losses exceeded profits for the
next 11 years, when two divs.
totalling 9 p.c. were paid. The
turning-point came in 1932, and
p.c. was paid for the four
years to 1935, followed by
regular annual distributions
averaging 6 p.c. for the 15 years
to 1950, then nil and 7 p.c. and
5 p.c. to the close of last accounts.
Meanwhile (in 1933) ss. of each
£1 share was returned in cash,
thanks to the liberal allowances
that had been made for deprecia-
tion.
Here is a comparison of
operating results over the last
eight years:—
To Re- Re-
Noy., Profit. serves.*
& £ £ £
1946. . 788 2 p.c. = 9,824 964 50,337
1947.. 6 „ ~ 29,474 1,341 51,678
1948.-39,118 7 „ „ 34,386 4,732 56,410
1949.. 39.822 7 „ ~ 34,386 5,436 61,846
1950.. 36.806 7 „ „ 34,386 2,420 64,266
Loss.
1951.. 37.416 Nil 26,850
From inner reserves, £37,416.. 64,266
Profit.
1952. . 526 7 p.c. = 34,386 6,140 70,406
1953-32,029 5 „ „ 24,562 7,467 77,873
* After deducting intangibles, £lOOO.
The loss in 1951 —first thing of
its kind for 20 years—was due to
rapidly-rising costs, sluggish
increase in selling-prices and
adverse seasonal conditions.
Since then Nature has been kind,
and the best profit since World
War I showed up in 1952.
The board is tight-lipped about
output, sales and buying- and
selling-prices, while the p. and 1.
account tells little more than it
has to. Last term Government
statistics show bigger slaughter-
ings and export of beef in the
north, with the output of canned
meats running on a fairly even
keel. Prices of livestock fluctu-
ated ; but the figure paid by the
Government for exports (first-
quality hinds) was steady at
18.37 d. per pound for practically
the whole of the term —it was
lifted to 19.24 d. on October 5
last.
Still, there was a slip of £8497
in declared net earnings, which
at £32,029 were equal to 6.5 p.c.
on capital as against 8.2 p.c. for
the previous year. Of the
£32,029, £29,327 (up £12,047)
came from dividends, and the
balance from the meatworks.
Operations in the southern States
were the trouble. They failed
to come up to expectations and
were unprofitable, the board says.
Activities in Queensland were
“reasonably satisfactory.”
Easier shipping and other trad-
ing conditions enabled stocks and
stores to be reduced by £274,131
and £55,310, respectively, and
£423,915 to be lopped off the
overdraft;
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £491,232 £491,232
Reserves .. .. 70,406 77,873
Overdraft .. .. 649,690 225,775
Creditors, etc.* .. 420,520 555,892
Final div. .. 34,386 24,562
£1,666,234 £1,375,334
Fixed assets, etc. 812,080 857,162
Shares subsid. .. 75,000 75,000
Stock . . .. 460,364 186,233
Stores . . .. 141,683 86,373
Debtors .. .. 177,107 170,566
£1,666,234 £1,375,834
* Includes provision for taxation and staff
fund.
When the books closed the out-
side debt, etc., exceeded more-or-
less liquids (excluding sharehold-
ings) by £363,057 (up £37,633).
As for the current term, good
rains in northern cattle areas
have brightened the outlook for
quantity and quality of beef.
Within the next few months the
U.K. Government intends to put
meat on a trader-to-trader basis,
whereupon its function under the
15-year meat agreement with the
Commonwealth will be to main-
tain floor prices, to be fixed by
negotiation from year to year.
The sharemarket, which
expects the co. to make a better
showing, prices the f.-p. 15s.
shares at 13 s. 9d. as against 12s.
a year ago. The return at 13s. 9d.
is 5.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis,
or 7,6 p.c. should the distribu-
tion be restored to 7 p.c. again.
Net tangible coyer is 17s. 4d.
per share.
Oil Permits
The half-dozen cos. and
syndicates recently granted per-
mits to search for oil in
Westralia, and the areas
involved, are:
Frame Broken Hill Co. Pty., Ltd.:
An area (91,000 sq. miles) running
lor about 300 miles west and a like
distance north of Eucla. The co.
is jointly owned by Anglo-Iranian,
Ltd., Vacuum Pty. and Zinc Corp.
The livewire behind this organisa-
tion is M- Mawby, who has long
been in charge of Zinc Corp.’s
exploratory work, and is now a
director of both the Corp. and Frome
cos.
Australasian Oil Exploration, N.L.:
Wittenoom Gorge area (26,000 sq.
miles), about 300 miles east of Lear-
month Gulf, and a desert area
(29,500 sq. miles) some 400 miles east
of Meekatharra. Co. was recently
formed to take over the interests of
the Cable Oil Syndicate. The Cable
brothers have also just granted an
option over the old Boomerang gold-
mine, east of Laverton, to Hansel
Mundy, N.L.
Abo Gold Exploration and Atom
Minerals and Oil, Ltd.: Jointly at
Bremer Bay (13,000 sq. miles) east
of Albany. The Abo co. is a Perth
concern which has been fossicking
for gold in the West for some time.
Goldfields Petroleum Discovery
Syndicate: Coastal area (19>,500 sq.
miles), about 250 miles west of
Eucla. The syndicate consists of a
group of Kalgoorlie men headed by
Jock Walls, G. Lewis and G. S.
Compton. The intention is to float a
public co. to undertake exploration
work.
Carnegie Syndicate: Desert area
(39,000 sq. miles), near the southern
part of the Northern Territory border
and about 350 miles s.-e. of Nerrima,
where the Freney Co. is operating.
Jackson Exploration, Ltd.: Albany
area (15,800 sq. miles). The co. con-
sists largely of women who are
interested in the hunt for oil.
Permits to explore are granted
for two years, after which they
are subject to annual extensions.
Holders are required to make
aerial, geological and geo-
physical surveys of their areas
by qualified persons within
three months of the granting of
a permit. No drilling can be
done without permission of the
Minister for Mines, who says he
will strictly enforce the condi-
tions. Although, as pointed out
in B. 17/2/’54, all the areas
granted contain some sediment-
ary rocks (the potential source
of petroleum) they lack the
characteristics of the coast areas
of the west and nor’-west of the
State, where oil-bearing strata
are known to exist.
The directors of Norseman
Gold Mines, NX., have done the
right thing in the interests of
shareholders by separating the
co.’s flutter in uranium (jointly
with Uranium Mines, NX.) from
its well-established and profitable
activities in the mining of pyritic
ore. A new jointly-owned co.,
Western Australian Uranium,
NX., is being formed to take over
and develop the uranium leases
at Lake Dundas, as well as a
new 300-acre lease on the
Ravensthorpe copper field about
150 miles s.-e. of Lake Dundas.
On the new lease uranium-
bearing materials have been
located by surface-trenching over
a distance of 1000 ft. Share-
holders in Norseman and
Uranium Mines are to be offered
scrip in the new co. It is too
early yet to form any worth-
while idea of how the venture
will pan out financially.
* ♦ ♦
Consolidated Tin Dredging,
Ltd. (paid capital £2,705,983 in
10s. shares), the big Melbourne-
controlled holding co. which in
Sept., 1951, merged the interests
of nine Australian-owned tin cos.
in Malaya and Thailand, has
been a disappointment to share-
holders. Early market expecta-
tions were for divs. of between
10 p.c. and 15 p.c. The co. made
its first distribution, 6d. a share
(£136,090), or 5 p.c., on Jan. 30
last. Estimated profit for the year
to Dec. 31, 1953, was £245,000
(up £58,000), equal to 9 p.c. on
capital as against 6.9 p.c. for the
previous term. No consolidated
balance-sheet and p, and I.
account are published ; balancing
dates for individual units range
from Sept., 1953, to Oct., 1953.
The four principal earners appear
to be Tongkah Compound No. 2
and No. 4, Kuala Lumpur and
Tinsongkhla. Hoping to find
work for one df the idle dredges,
the co. is now examining several
properties in Malaya. The
London average spot price of
tin, which eased from £5957.3
for Jan., 1952, to £8654.8 for
Jan., 1954, stood at £5675.5 on
Feb. 17. The market prices the
scrip at 4s. or thereabouts.


Women's Letters
MiELIB'OUKNIE
The last few days saw the finishing
touches to Melbourne’s Royal glitter,
with furious activity almost up to the last
hour. There are miles of bunting and
acres of flags, and with every gust of
wind the lions hanging in the centre of
many streets have swayed, seeming as if
ready to pounce on the unwary passer-by.
The floodlighting of buildings is superb,
especially the Town Hall, and the gold
crown which covers the entire dome of
Flinders-street railway-station is an
arresting sight. St. Kilda-road is at its
best. The lawns are vividly green and
the city entrance to this lovely thorough-
fare is dominated by two tall pylons
which are decorated with Tudor roses,
the Royal Coat of Arms and the Coat of
Arms of the City Council. Flags flutter
from the tops of the pylons, and at night
these are silhouetted with floodlighting
from inside the structures.
Down St. Kilda-road, along the route
to Government House, there are group-
ings of three slender decorated masts
which carry a variety of flags. Private
firms have responded magnificently. One
Collins-street building has a huge picture
of the radiant Queen. The facade of
the Hotel Australia is covered with large
gold crowns and almost every window is
a riot of flags. Bourke-street, shopping-
centre of the city, is resplendent. One
big store has draped the front of the
building with gold-fringed blue silk which
radiates out from the Royal Arms,
centred between two large figures of
Royal trumpeters. Beneath this is a
white-covered balcony, the top edged with
masses of crimson roses, and beneath
the balcony are the coats-of-arms of
every State in the Commonwealth. Next
door, the Union Jack and Australian flag
cover the front of the tall building and at
night are illuminated.
But the decoration which is causing
the biggest traffic-jams is the bushland
scene which has been created on the
veranda of a Bourke-street store. At the
top of the building is a very large crown
and below it, and covering the entire
facade, is a painting of river-threaded
paddocks and, in the distance, misty blue
mountains. Grasses, trees and boulders
on the roof of the veranda form the set-
ting for the figure of a stockman boiling
his billy.
This is only one of dozens of buildings
brilliantly and imaginatively illuminated.
At night, also, the city’s gardens are a
fairyland, with fountains sending up
colored streams and multicolored lights
in the trees giving effects of great
beauty.
Tonight (Wednesday), while the Queen
and the Duke of Edinburgh rest at
Government House, there will be dancing
in the streets. The Palais de Danse at St.
Kilda will provide the setting for the Rose
of England Ball, put on by members of the
various Empire societies, the Victoria
League and Overseas League. The
president of the Overseas League has
had word that, duties permitting, Lord
Althorp, accompanied by five members
of the RoyaL Household,^will attend.
The Victorian branch of the Overseas
League has chartered an A.N.A. plane
to take 24 members on a 40-minutes’
flight over the city. This plane trip is
due to leave Essendon at three o’clock
on the afternoon of February 28.
☆ * it
When she was married at Toorak Pres-
byterian church last Friday to Frederick
James Hamilton, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Ewart Moreton, of Geelong, Lesley
Baxter (“Bunty”), only daughter of Sir
Leslie and Lady McConnan, of Toorak,
wore a gown of pale-pink satin. Cut on
classical lines, the fitted bodice had a
wide neckline, and the very full skirt was
mounted on a crinoline. The fingertip-
length pearl-tinted tulle veil fell from a
lovely coronet of pearls, and her bouquet
was of gardenias.
The bridesmaids, Cecily Orozier, of
Casterton, Jean Officer and Ann Ray-
mond, wore deep-pink nylon marquisette
frocks, the fitting bodices of which were
pleated, the skirts being embellished with
white hand-embroidery. Their caps of
the same material carried light veiling.
The white tiger-lilies they held were tinted
with pink. Reception was held at the
home of the bride’s parents.
* ☆ ☆
Woollen fabrics for evening-we|r are
seen in every Paris collection for the
coming season. Apart from black, there
is a great range of colors in broadcloth,
jersey or lightweight wool-fabric. Dior
uses sapphire-blue broadcloth, Schia-
parelli royal-blue for an ankle-length
gown. Saffron-yellow is chosen by Jean
Desses for a strapless dress which has
a gold-embroidered bolero. For the
evening, jersey is used in either black
or white. One designer uses a bright-red
jersey, another a shell-pink jersey for a
ball-gown.
Cashmere, of fine and supple quality,
tempted Madame Manguin to make a
gala dress of this fabric, the bodice em-
broidered in gold. Schiaparelli decided
that camel-hair would be suitable for
evening as well as day, and made it up in
a straight coat, reaching to the ankles and
embossed with gold kid on collar and
cuffs. Evening - coats suitable for
functions during the Royal visit are
made of woollen fabrics. A long coat in
pearl-grey velours de laine. nippsd-in at
the waist, was long and tight-sleeved.
Sleeveless and just as low-necked, the
short wool dresses vary only in shape
from the long dresses. They follow the
Princess line or are designed like a nar-
row sheath and are devoid of belts. The
bare or merely-strapped shoulders are
sometimes draped and intricately wrapped
in part of the bodice.
The cape is back again in Paris. Gres
showed it in silver-grey broadcloth with
a matching hood. Another had all the
soft fullness of a cape but added minia-
ture sleeves which were almost lost in
the quantity of material used, which was
black broadcloth.
Mrs. Keith Morrison, wife of the sec-
retary of the Victoria Racing Club, is the
mother of two sons: David, who has
completed his National Service training,
and Michael, who shortly prepares to go
into camp for his period of service. Mrs.
Morrison will be among those presented
to the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh
when the Royal party attend the races
at Flemington; she is a notably good
dresser. Her garden is her chief hobby.
John Warlow photo.
The Borovansky Ballet continues to
delight large audiences at Her Majesty’s.
The latest programme includes the ever-
green and charming “Les Sylphides,” the
dramatic “Petrouchka” and the gay and
lighthearted “Graduation Ball.” In the
audience the ballerina-length and short
evening-frocks were the popular choice.
Mrs. F. H. Wright’s ensemble was an
embroidered powder-blue crepe gown
with matching jacket, Mrs. Frank Tait’s
strapless gown was of sea-green velvet.
Mrs. Frank Foley wore a mink stole with
her black frock. Mrs. Peter Condon’s
short frock of pale-lilac Iqce had a match-
ing stole. Mrs. Eccles McKay was
accompanied by her two daughters: June,
wearing pale-pink silver-embroidered
organza, and Diana, in white nylon. Of
crimson velvet was Mrs. Sedon
Thompson’s gown.
☆ ☆ ☆
Looking ahead to winter, the fashion-
house of Leroy held a parade in their
tastefully-decorated showroom. The
tapered silhouette is a feature of the new
coats. Suits have lost their pinch-waist
look and have a rounder, willowy line that
follows the figure. New also is the subtle
touch of glitter on the jackets of suits. A
black sealcloth coat featured the new trend
for interchangeables. Slots on either end
of the collar made it possible to wear, as
the mannequin did, first a collar of ranch-
mink, one of black Persian-lamb, and
finally one encrusted with jewels.
Cut on very slim lines was a simple
frock of oatmeal heavy wool which had
a trimming of ocelot fur, A slate-grey
jersey frock had a mandarin cross-over
collar jewelled and sequinned, A black
jersey frock was highlighted with a white
leather Eton collar studded with rhine-
stones. Sequins were on the pockets of a
black suit-jacket, whilst on a jacket of
grey wool the black velvet collar was
outlined with rhinestones.
SYDNEY
Sydney said good-bye to the Queen
on the hottest day of the year (97 degrees
in the shade), but 700,000 people stood
for hours in the sun along the routes
that she would pass to cheer her once
more, to wish her God-speed and to ask
her to come back. On the wharves they
sang “Auld Lang Syne” and “Waltzing
Matilda,” but as the Gothic drew out a
silence of sadness fell, and the feeling of
deep emotion was intensified by the
beauty of the scene as the Royal yacht
bore the Queen away into the path of the
declining sun.
Robin Stanton, of Bellevue Hill, who
has been present at several of the
parties celebrating the Royal visit, is
regarded as one of the best-dressed girls
in Sydney’s younger-set. At the Govern-
ment House garden-party she looked
most attractive in a full-skirted dress of
white broderie Anglaise with a small
black hat and black gloves. Photo by
Dorothy Welding.
The reports overseas of the Sydney
crowds being noisy and rough seem very
strange to anyone who has seen them
during this Royal visit, for if there is
anything that has characterised them
more than another it has been their
sweetness and goodwill. Although they
have cheered her Majesty with all their
hearts, there has been a tendency as she
approached to fall into an awed silence,
as though they couldn’t believe their eyes,
and their emotional response to her
presence has always had this quality of
wonder in it. On the day she left Sydney
it was more notable than ever.
* * *
The grounds at Government House
would have quite easily absorbed the
8000 invited to the Royal Garden Party
had the weather been just normally fine,
but the extreme heat forced people to
cluster in any bits of shade they could
find and to avoid the open spaces as
surely as sheep in the outback. Only
the N.S.W. Police Pipe Band stood in the
full blaze of the sun for the four hours
they were at the party. Accoutred as
they were in sporrans, kilts, plaids,
bonnets, hose and all that, they really
deserved a medal for their fortitude.
It was on the whole a very well-dressed
affair, with white and grey in sheers,
nylons, organzas and shantungs pre-
dominating. Considering the Queen’s
obvious liking for yellow it was surpris-
ing to see so few outfits in this color.
However, there were large numbers of
little white hats and more white shoes
than Sydney women normally choose.
Among those who wore white shoes were
Mrs. Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, whose
suit was of duck-egg blue shantung, Miss
June Paget all in white but for a wide
teal-blue hat, and Mrs. Ken Kesterman.
There were large numbers of the clergy
present with their wives, and it was amus-
ing to see these gentlemen reclining on
the grass in a rather fete-champetre
manner trying to get a little respite from
the heat. People sat down everywhere—
on the steps, along the garden coping-
stones, even on the lower branches of
trees. All mopped their brows, fanned
themselves with their invitation - cards
and groaned about the heat.
They were energetic, however, in
forming lanes when the word went round
that the Queen might come their way,
but these lanes had a curious way of dis-
integrating when there would be a move-
ment elsewhere. They would become
eddies and whirlpools for a moment, then
would disappear. It all tended to be rather
confusing, and not more than half the
guests saw the Queen or even knew where
she was.
The Queen’s dress of white guipure
lace had a sophisticated sheath-line and
was worn with a wide hat of black net
trimmed with flame-and-green ostrich-
feathers between the two layers of the
brim.
Top-hats and morning-suits abounded.
If sartorial honors could be awarded in
this field, the Rev. C. E. Lucas, of St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, would certainly get
an honorable mention. But for most of
the men one felt that the broad-brimmed
Australian hat of the outback would have
been more appropriate and just as dash-
ing.
Among those who, like Miss North-
cott, wore blue were Mrs. J. M.
Gordon, whose dress was of slate-blue
shantung, Mrs. C. M. Croft, in blue
brocade, and Mrs. K. Morris in horizon-
blue chiffon. Miss M. Gillespie wore
navy broderie Anglaise. Miss Frances
Gillespie was in beige linen appliqued
with guipure lace. Noted also were Mr.
and Mrs. David Playfair, Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Brownhill with their son Neville,
and Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Adams.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was interesting to hear that all the
tickets for the Brahms Festival, which
covers three concerts at the Conserva-
torium, were sold out within four hours.
The three distinguished musicians who
performed with the Symphony Orchestra
at the Festival, Sir Bernard Heinze and
the two pianists Richard Farrell and
Lance Dossor, were welcomed at a recep-
tion by the Sydney Symphony Orchestral
Committee last week.
The A.B.C, Theatrette, where the
reception was held, had been lavishly
decorated with flowers by ladies of the
committee, directed by the president, Mrs.
Hope Gibson, and, in spite of the oppres-
sively humid weather, proved quite a
successful venue. Dr. Keith Barry wel-
comed the guests, and Sir Bernard, with
his entertaining oratory, made his
listeners forget the heat for a little while
at least.
Sir Bernard referred to the difficulties
in which the N.S.W. Opera Company was
apparently finding itself, and, although
he said that he was in no way associated
with the company, he felt that it was
important for Australians to realise that
opera does not pay and that there was no
hope of creating a situation in which it
could. He pointed out that in a rich
country like the U.S. there was only one
permanent opera company, the Metro-
politan, and that while he was in New
York the Met. itself had made a drama-
tic appeal for £175,000 by suddenly stop-
ping the performance of “Tristan and
Isolde” half-way through and telling the
15 million listeners that unless they were
all willing to help find the money the
opera would cease.
* ☆ ☆
Leaving for Europe by the Oronsay
next Saturday is Mrs. N. Taplin, who
hopes to spend nine or 10 months abroad
travelling through the Continent and
England, In Naples she will join Miss
Elsie Segaert, who lived for several years
in Sydney and was well-known as an
interior-decorator of great taste. Mrs.
Taplin and Miss Segaert intend to travel
through Italy, France, Scandinavia and
Germany before going on to England.
☆ ☆ *
Probably the youngest person to see
the Queen in Canberra was Catherine
Julia Whitlam, the new baby daughter
of Mr. E. C. Whitlam, M.P., and Mrs.
Whitlam. At the age of two weeks she
was taken to see the Queen on her way to
Yarralumla, but she had to be left at
home when her mother was presented
later to her Majesty. This is the first
granddaughter to the W. R. Doveys, and
Mrs. Dovey is already making space on
the mantelpiece for the swimming cups
which she confidently expects Catherine
to wki a little later on in her career.


Public Notices
SZEPESI, Istvan Ste.e,
nationality, born at Ungvar, resident 5
years in Australia, now residing 2 Foss
Street, Hunter’s Hill, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
SZEPESI, Ema Colette, o.f Hungarian
nationality, born at Bentschen Buntzin,
resident 5 years in Australia, now residing
2 Foss Street, Hunter’s Hill, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RONALD EDWARD WILLIAMS late
of 217 Hoddle Street Abbotsford Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that NGAERB ELZA
WILLIAMS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 301 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Sydney by the 29th day of March
anc * obtain a copy of the Petition
charge from MESSRS. W. CHAS.
MOSELEY, LINCOLN-SMITH & CO.,
Solicitors, of 5i Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney. J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
OPPORTUNITY
Great Mackarel Beach
For sale: Furnished cosy cottage and
small cabin on waterfront. V.P. Par-
ticularly pleasant part of Pittwater,
1 mile across from Palm Beach.
Perry service. No road approach.
Land 120 ft. x 157 ft., of which 80ft.
frontage is available for extension.
Clean, safe sandy beach at front gate.
£3300
Write
LEN FREEMAN,
Mackarel, Palm Beach, or Phone
4333 Palm Beach.
sv ginn sv
5857
BUYS A NEW
CHECK ALL OF THESE POINTS
The Nuffield "task forte" Tractor
(power kerosene), powered with an
engine developing 43 B.H.P, at 2,000
r.p.m., coil and distributor ignition
with automatic advance, electric light-
ing and starting, 12-volt battery,
5-speed gearbox, 4 steel wheels, fronts
30" x 5", rears 55" x 9" with spade
lugs. Standard equipment includes
drawbar, belt pulley, hour meter,
chaff screen and sponge rubber seat,
all for as little as £857
Optional pneumatic tyre equipment
to the game mechanical specification, 6.00 x
19 front, 11 x 36 rear £935
or with 7.50 x IB front, and 14 x 30
rear, 600 lb. incorporated in each rear
wheel £1,119
Optional extra equipment:
Power take-off, £l4/18/-. Hydraulic lift
and power take-off unit, with six-way power
providing a variety of applications, £99/18/-
The Nuffield range includes diesel-powered models
and row-crop models with twin front wheels.
df
T gOOR
\ task
NT22.24
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victorias
KELLOW'FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
m
:
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PIT. LTD . VICTORIA PARK. JOYNTON AVENUE, ZETLAND
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Melbourne Opera
Melbourne National Theatre’s
eighth annual festival of opera
at the Princess Theatre led off
with “The Tales of Hoffmann.”
It is this opera of Offenbach’s
which has been selected as the
piece de resistance to be laid
before the Queen, but, unless
the performance improves or
the production changes, it is to
be hoped another choice will be
made.
Some of the singing was
good, notably Marie Collier’s
and Betty Fretwell’s, and the
music of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra under Joseph
Post was splendid, but some-
body has gone mad v/ith the
decor in the modern fashion and
cluttered the stage with grinning
masks, human lamp-posts and
other electrical perkakases which
would certainly have astounded
Hoffmann.
“Amahl and the Night Visi-
tors,” by Gian Carlo Menotti —
the modern composer who also
wrote “The Consul” —was
better. There is something
original, vital and arresting
about Menotti, slight as is his
music. He seems to be thinking
about his subject, not merely
ambling through a nonsensical
libretto making pretty noises;
the music is married to the
drama and the action to the
music, so that the listener-and-
looker gets the poignancy of
the story of the crippled boy
whose poverty-stricken house-
hold has a visitation from the
Three Kings who are on their
way to lay their gifts at the feet
of the Saviour in the manger.
The boy’s mother tries to steal
the gold, but the Three Kings
tell her she can keep it as their
Master builds with love and
needs no gold, whereupon the
child asks them to take his
crutches, then dances with de-
light when he finds his faith
has made him whole and he is
cured.
Graeme Campbell, a boy of
12, played this role with the
quality of a seasoned actor and
sang his lines in a voice that
expressed his crippled joy. Joyce
Simmonds as his mother was
passionate and sincere, and
Raymond McDonald, Leonard
Delaney and Clifford Grant
needed no apologies as the
Three Kings.
Some apologising was needed,
however, for the Humperdinck
piece “Hansel and Gretel,”
another item of the evening.
Hump.’s music is extremely
lovely, but the treatment it got
from the orchestra was rough in
the extreme until Robert
Allman electrified it by his
splendid singing of the drunken
father, after which it was as
lively as Grimm’s innocuous
fairy story isn’t. The story had
to bear a heavy overloading
from the queer decor and cos-
tumes of Angus Winnecke and
the choreography of Jean
Alexander.
♦> ❖
Brahms Festival
At the Conservatorium the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
opened the season with the first
of three concerts devoted
entirely to Brahms, last of the
great line of German classico-
romantic symphonists.
Bernard Heinze was the con-
ductor, and he began proceedings
with a reasonably-good reading
of the “Academic Festival”
Overture, that combination of
four student songs with which
Brahms, exercising the rather
elephantine humor which distin-
guished him, paid tribute to the
University of Breslau after it
had bestowed on him an
honorary Doctorate of Philo-
sophy.
Then came the Piano Concerto
No. 2, a gigantic work in four
movements which is a test of skill
and endurance not only for the
soloist but the conductor and
orchestra, among whom the first
’cello and first horn bear an
extra burden.
Under torrid atmospheric con-
ditions, which, before the work
was half-finished, had reduced
the conductor’s collar to a
sodden wreck, the soloist, Lance
Dossor, set out in forthright
manner to assert the solo instru-
ment’s heroic voice.
Well-equipped technically, and
employing a rather florid style,
he quickly showed that he
appreciated the need for some
extra left-hand strength to deal
with the “thick” bass chords
peculiar to Brahms. Turning
from these authoritative de-
clamatory passages of the open-
ing movement, his exposition of
the lyrical andante had good
phrasing and restraint. In this
section, too, Hans George took
off on a splendid solo flight in
the lovely romanze allotted to
the principal ’cello. Tight
cohesion between orchestra and
solo instrument marked the head-
long rush of the final movement.
The symphony was the First,
which Brahms appropriately
wrote in the same key (C Minor)
as Beethoven’s Fifth, for, as with
the work of the Master of Bonn,
the Brahms symphony is a
Faustian soul-struggle with Fate.
Heinze invested the big first
movement with a racing energy
which was never allowed to
deteriorate into a battle between
the four sections of the orchestra,
and the wonderful rhythmic
devices of which Brahms remains
the supreme master in the big
works were negotiated with
facility and the tune-lilting
quality.
The slow movement was full
of contemplative dreaminess, a
perfect respite after the
tremendous impact of the vola-
tile beginning, and in the third,
where Brahms bucked the con-
ventions by dispensing with the
scherzo, there was liveliness
touched with grace.
The final movement —one of
the greatest in all symphonic
literature —swept forward with
all sections combining well to
lend a mixture of beauty and
great power, after the soft
chorale in the horns had intro-
duced the coming paean of joy.
❖ ❖ *
Tommy Trinder
It has become customary in
recent years for topline vaude-
ville comedians to make but one
or two appearances on the even-
ing’s programme, so it was
pleasant to see Tommy Trinder
working like the very devil prac-
tically right through the current
Tivoli bill, which is, appropri-
ately enough, called “The
Tommy Trinder Show.”
Trinder was on the stage
almost at the start, chipping late-
comers, and when last seen as
the audience filed out of the
theatre he was busily washing-
down the stage with a mop. Be-
tween that beginning and end he
seemed to bob up all over the
place, filling the theatre with
“What d' yer think this is—a marathon race?”
glib Cockney wit and spangling
the air with innuendo, all of
which had a most deceptive note
of spontaneity about it. It was,
really, a most industrious per-
formance, with the bony, horse-
faced comedian darting like a
bower-bird on to every oppor-
tunity for a laugh and getting
them all.
The rest of a very good Tiv.
bill included the Dagenham Girl
Pipers, and, although the present
commentator has some reserva-
tions about being locked up in a
box with a bagpipe—which was
how it seemed with the lassies
sounding-off in the confines of
the Tiv. —it must be admitted
that the girls do quite a spec-
tacular job, particularly their
drum-major, who whirled and
tossed her staff with such
apparent abandon that it looked
as though someone was going to
be crowned at any moment. No-
body was, and the pipes skirled
and wailed through “Loch
Lomond” and “Over the Sea to
Skye” what time the audience
stamped out the rhythms with
such enthusiasm that the whole
theatre seemed to shake,
Nancy de Paul’s Lady Acro-
bats promised, from their title,
to be something in neck-to-knees
on parallel-bars, so their impact
was all the more effective when
they turned out to be flashing
whirlwinds of brief white satin
and bare, brown arms and legs
in as fast and as striking an
acrobatic turn as has been seen
on the Tiv. for years. Warren,
Latona and Sparks also turned
on some skilfully-comic acro-
batics ; and the Littlejohns, with
some glittering clubs and axes,
provided some juggling which
was all the more exciting be-
cause Mr. Littlejohn fumbled his
clubs a few times so that the
audience waited a little breath-
lessly for him to do likewise
when he was chucking his gleam-
ing axes at Mrs. Littlejohn.
Toni Lamond, looking rather
like a young Lana Turner,
warbles very effectively and
makes “Diamonds Are a Girl’s
Best Friend” seem almost like a
home-truth, and the Tivolovelies
are, if anything, lovelier than
ever.
Artbursts
Len Annois and Barry Kay
have a joint show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney;
Annois hasn’t much to say about
views of France, England and
Australia and a thinnish water-
color technique doesn’t help
him very much in saying it.
Kay paints what looks like de-
formed rag-dolls, apparently
attempting to simulate a child-
ishly innocent approach to his
subject. The result is distress-
ingly arty.


A MURDER AT KING'S CROSS
A KNIFE FOR STANISLAW
BY JOHN FOUNTAIN
THE chemist was blonde.
She stood behind the
counter packed with cos-
metics and toothpaste,
headache-powders and chewing-
gum, a red cardigan over her
white overalls, arms folded, a
Mona Lisa smile touching lips
of cherry-shade lipstick.
The New Australian thought
she was beautiful, but unreal,
like the technicolor water out
there, and the night-sky, split,
every quarter-minute or so, in
pillars and fountains and sprays
of light. Light exploding, flower-
tag, radiating, reticulating;
bright drops, as quickly, melting
into the night. Even so, he
thought wistfully, man, woman,
love, burning, and then lost, in
eternal night .. .
He had been drinking. He
stared at her, dark-brown eyes
brilliant in a pale, heavy, striking
face. He was, perhaps, thirty-
three, not tall, but broad, and he
had an air of energy, of strong
purpose. His mouth was wide,
red, moist, over a firm cleft chin ;
his forehead was almost massive,
his neck thick. His thoughts
sparkled, gleamed, died, like the
Coronation fireworks over the
harbor.
He had been working on the
Snowy River Scheme, he said,
Clerical work; he was not a
laborer. He glanced at his
hands, broad, lumpy-rnuscled
hands, but smooth; not laborer’s
hands: and wiggled Iris eye-
brows. He wore a heavy signet-
ring and a gold wristlet-watch,
He made good money, he said;
but then, shrugging, how to
snend it?
“It must be interesting up
there ” the chemist said in her
brisk voice. “Very. ’ Pictur-
esque too.”
She* wrinkled her brow look-
ing at him steadily. His English
was good but—how would you
describe his voice? Cream!
That was it, very thick cream,
with a grating of something
metallic under the rich smooth-
ness. She was good at describing
things, she thought complacently.
At school she always came top
at composition.
“Pic-turesque?” he said.
“Yes. Don’t you think? I
was up at Kosciusko a couple of
years ago, ski-ing, with friends,
It was very picturesque.”
Ski-ing? He knew about ski-
ing. But, for the time, he ignored
this special knowledge, deliber-
ately locking it away in the back
of his mind, a weapon, a stone
to be rolled out some day, flatten-
ing people. But picturesque?
He shook his glazed head briefly,
a stocky puzzled bull in a brown
overcoat. It was a wrong word,
surely? But of course. Recog-
nition came, and with it con-
tempt. It was a tourist word, an
easy word, a cheap word. He
had a feeling for words, in
several languages. He was
educated. He was not a peasant.
His mood changed swiftly.
He would like to take this girl
out, spend money on her, per-
haps sleep with her. Why not?
Australian girls liked Europeans,
that was well known. They
thought European men were cul-
tured. He had an impulse, so
strong it made him catch his
breath, to talk about himself ;
his boyhood in Poland, school,
old dreams ; his father, who was
of the old tradition, proud, very
proud, and, before he died, un-
forgiving, like stone; about
Russia, and the bad time he had.
Ugh, that was going too far.
A few travellers’ tales, perhaps,
to win a woman’s interest; care-
ful extracts of blood and
violence, to arouse other feel-
ings. But not too nuich. an
excess was a shameful weakness,
a dissipation of the spirit; and,
for that reason, hard, to control,
at times ! . . And why this girl?
But she was pretty. He was
lonely in this big city, a fat roll
of banknotes in his inside pocket,
his worries on holiday. He felt
lucky. He had felt lucky ever
since he arrived in Sydney,
Something in the stir, the
crowded smell of the place,
quickened his blood, made his
thoughts race. It was as though
his mind had been half-asleep
these last months and now, re-
spending to the tempo around
him, was completely alive.
TJE had told Stanislaw he
*“• would go out to Redfern
tonight. Girls, Stanislaw had
said, and vodka; not real vodka,
but white spirit bought on the
blackmarket and refined in the
backyard. He shrugged. He
would as soon drink gin flavored
with orange-peel and, as for girls,
he would take the girl behind
the counter,
“You are busy at night?”
She sighed. “Not very, worse
luck. I’ve only just taken over
this business. It was a bit run-
down.”
“It is your business?” He
stared at her, all brown-eyed
solemnity under the gleaming
dark hair with its white parting,
a perfect pattern, like hair pre-
served under a coat of varnish.
She nodded: “Yes, indeed.”
CHE was wondering whether
she should shut the shop.
Lang, down the road, had warned
her a Labor and Industry in-
spector was snooping. Smith,
she thought bitterly. Smith
didn’t work long hours himself
and, for some obscure reason, he
didn’t like to see other chemists
working them. So, periodically,
he pimped.
Lang, who was middle-aged
and successful, said it was
cheaper to pay the fines, and
stay open. They didn’t catch
you more than once a month,
usually. In time they got sick
D f y OUj an d picked on someone
else, Lang said. As for that little
pansy. Smith, he would like to
break his neck. Did she think
he'hit himself?
she agreed that Smith pro b-
took drugs. She could be-
u ' anything of such an inex-
. 'J. Tf „ __
P> lca “ e ,' d “ e ' t “
though they hurt /um e
open half the time, any-
way, within the legal trading
hours, and then he looked halt-
dead. She shared the nealthy
suspicion of Lang, that devoted
golfer, for a man who sat up all
night listening to classical
records, and who didn’t have a
girl-
True, she had no regular male
friend, herself. But then she was
new here and, well, fussy. Be-
sides, she had been occupied with
the business. She was getting to
know a nice crowd, though . . .
Pauline and her brother, for in-
stance. A girl on her own, with-
out the moral support of a
family, couldn’t be too careful.
If the family came down to live
it would be nicer ; dull, in a way,
but nice.
As for the advice, that was
all very well for Lang, who was
established. But she couldn’t
afford to be caught, with the first
month’s stock bill to be met,
the rent, and not too many
customers. She had been losing
stuff, too; little things picked off
the counter by women in big
coats with bland expressions,
Too risky to challenge them un-
less you were quite, quite sure;
and when you were in the dis-
pensary it was hard to keep an
eye on the shop. That was the
penalty of being alone. But she
couldn't afford to pay wages,
yck , . XT
She wondered what this Ne
Australian really wanted. Bust-
ness was a worry, but you did
meet interesting types. He had
bought a cake of soap, but was
still hanging around, pretending
t o study the labels of patent
medicines. She didn’t mind. He
looked decent and, besides, an
empty shop was bad. As soon
as the call came she would close,
much as she hated to . . .
OTANISLAW? He was tired
of Stanislaw. He would do
what the Immigration people,
and the newspapers, advised New
Australians to do. Mix.
Stanislaw was not adaptable,
Their ways must soon part,
Stanislaw, poor fellow, knew it,
had known it today, the black
mood growmg and blowing in
him, drinking too much. His
fair hair falling over his blue,
ma d, staring eyes, his big hands
trem bii n g. Stanislaw was all
right up on the j ob In Russia,
wben they were hungry, it was
ano ther thing. But this was not
t he place for Stanislaw. On the
other hand it was the place for
He bad been tinglingly
sure 0 f fi all day. He felt lucky,
Poor Stanislaw. Men, hard
men, had been afraid of Stanis-
i av v once and others would be
a g a in, if they knew. He re-
membered Stanislaw as a
youth, slow, cheerful, brave,
They had beaten Stanis-
l a w too much, too cruelly, and,
finally, something had gone
wrong inside his head. They
had beaten him t too, kept him
a wake, the electric-light globe
burning whitely into his brain,
made him undress, asked him
questions. But for him, it had
not been so bad, nor so long,
He was not the same, either—
who could be?—but now he only
felt an occasional wondering
pity for the boy, himself, so will-
mg to die.
He lit a cigarette and stared
at the painted water, letting the
smoke trickle out of his broad
nostrils. The crawling fear had
gone, long ago, long ago. His
father’s face, spitting the one
furious word, the unforgivable
word, meant nothing. His father
had not understood that all that
”^ belie « ™ Simple* a”
i • rvtwdnlnav conditioned
H . it with d
r ® fl u
[ Treat men in a certain
™ n „ S nd [w ceased to be
animals
were animals at any
, . ' dicta ted The Polish
v chareina tanks was one
~ }... JL/another
©’ 1 , nn mnre
Jr or , t . .. a
heroes, he thought, not tor me
first time. But, ait toe same,
different animals reacted diner-
ently. The treatment that had
broken Stanislaw—or, to be fair,
a little less of it—had left him
stronger, in a way. Hollow, but
clear-minded. He knew what
be was, and what he wanted,
The was serving a cus .
omer a y oun g woman in plaid
, k
D . fW , irac
p °or Stamstaw But thal-was
all 9® e w T \ t * l thc £ I
!lfe ;. would go t
girl, or another,
a S°° . time.
Stanislaw would get a trollop,
get drunk, sleep in the park,
probably, or in jail. The police
might beat him a little, it they
didn’t like foreigners, or if Stanis-
law had one of his crazy spells,
Some magistrate would tell mm
sternly that he comdnt act like
that in Australia (that was a
), and warn mm against baa
company. That was a joke, too,
because no company, m certain
circumstances, could be worse
man Stanislaw,
Some day Stanislaw would kill
someone. He would like to tell
those fools up at the job, some-
times, what sort of a man Stams-
law was. It was a temptation,
when they laughed at Stanislaw,
at his English, his big awkwarcl-
ness, the noise he made with ms
soup. It would be pleasant, tor
once, to see fat grins wiped on.
healthy, empty faces, the sly, s y
glance of fear. But was . a
temptation, no more. Alter a ,
he owed Stanislaw something,
his life, it that meant anyt mg,
from those years. He was o
of Stanislaw, m a queer way, a
you might be fond or an , u 8 >•
dangerous dog that rollowed y
and obeyed you. He a
control over Stanislaw.


Everywhere
Holden
in Australia
has proved itself
In the hands of more than 120,000 owners
throughout Australia . . . Holden has earned
testimonials like these.
Mr. W. Burns, taxi operator, of Dulwich Hill,
Sydney: “My fifth Holden has done 155,000
miles. It has never had new rings nor has the
sump been off.” Mr. M. Curran, of Ararat,
Victoria: “My three Holdens have done 96,866,
94.000 and 42,404 miles . . . have averaged on
long runs 32-33 m.p.g.” Mr. J. Schwerdt, of
Strathalbyn, South Australia: “I did a trip to
Victoria and N.S.W. and covered a distance of
2,601 miles . . . averaged 34 m.p.g.” Mr. D. A.
Fraser, Warwick, Queensland: “After
40.000 miles at continuous high speed —
very little expense apart from regular preventive
maintenance. ” Mr. J. Mclntyre, Perth, West
Australia: “My Holden taxi has now done more
than 57,000 miles maintenance has been
negligible .”
These are extracts from owner letters. There
are hundreds of similar testimonials on file
at GMH. Many are based on unusually
severe service . . . your best guarantee that
Holden will prove dependable and economical
for your motoring, too.
See your Holden Dealer for details of
the three different Holden sedan models
the de luxe Special, the Business Sedan
| and the economy model, Holden Standard.
Australia’s Own Car
In view of the very heavy demand for
“New-Look” Holden Sedans and
Utilities, we suggest that you place
your order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
• There are two Air Chief Car
Radios specially designed for Holden
G Convenient hire purchase terms
are available through G.M.A.C.
General Motors’ own finance
company. * Registered Trade Mark
Australia’s Own Utility
Holden is the most popular utility.
It combines 6 cylinder power, 21 h.p.
performance and 30 m.p.g. economy
as reported by owners.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
he was there, watchful, nothing
was likely to happen
She was back. He must buy
something else, now, quick. Not
what he came in to buy, but
something.
“A packet of razor-blades,
please.”
“What brand?” She arched
delicate eyebrows and suddenly,
amazingly, the wild horsemen
thundered through his head.
Steady, he told himself,
steady
He shrugged. “Oh, any kind.”
She darted away, paused.
“Large or small?”
He hesitated. “Large.”
A SPIDERY woman, in mid-
night-black, came in like a
cold wind. She seized the
chemist’s plump white wrist in
a black glove and whispered,
“Dearie”
The girl was poised, posed, like
a ballet-dancer, legs crossed in
the act of turning. He smiled.
The picture was droll. She
glanced at him, a blue apology.
“No hurry,” he assured her,
smiling.
Two men came in, filling the
shop with their aggressive high
spirits, riding on a gale of alco-
holic wit. One was tall, loose-
limbed, narrow-shouldered, with
a red, bony, long-jawed face and
a pale, bloodshot eye. The other
was dark, compact, cocky, piggy
face flushed under tight oiled
curls. They leant on the counter,
laughing and talking.
The Pole stepped back to give
them elbow-room, watching
them. The type interested him.
Expensive suits and dirty finger-
nails; laughter, winks and loud,
arrogant Australian voices.
Honest workmen playing at being
larrikins, in the peculiar Aus-
tralian tradition. Egalitarians,
anxious to prove their physical
superiority. Ordinary people,
with dull, ordinary lives, and a
secret yearning for violence.
In the dispensary the telephone
rang and the girl went to answer
it. In the shop they could hear
her brisk voice: “Pauline? No,
but I’m just going to. Yes, love
to, darl. In about ten minutes?
Good.”
“Shop, Miss.” The tall man
rapped the glass counter with a
florin. The chemist was out
again, talking to the black witch.
She gave him a mechanical smile.
“Just a moment.”
“Shop!” This time it was
louder.
“Here, break it down, Harry.
Can’t y’ see the girl’s busy?”
The shorter man’s voice was a
deep rumble.
“Well, I’m in a hurry.” The
voice was loud, angry, a rasping
whine.
“Well, give her a fair go.”
The short man put his pudgy fists
on his hips, expanded his chest.
Fleshy lids drooped over piggy
eyes, the coarse face hardened.
He looked what he was, a bit
of a pug.
“Don’t come the stand-over
act with me, Herbie,” Harry said,
in a different voice, lower, and
slower. “Why, I” He
stopped abruptly, and took two
short, ludicrous steps: someone
had pushed him. Or, rather,
someone large and heavy had
pushed past him rudely, from
behind, upsetting his balance, his
stance of elegant defiance.
He recovered quickly. He
spun round, long jaw thrust out,
fists raised. Slowly they
dropped, all three. “Well, I’ll
be ,” he said, in simple
wonder. Then, in swift resent-
ment: “The old bitch!”
If his attacker heard him, she
gave no sign. Harry stood there,
his Adam’s-apple very agitated.
All he could see was an immense
fur coat, luxuriant ripples, dark
and light smoothness, running
into each other, like water-marks,
under the fluorescent lights. Her
back was turned to him, a wide
fur back, wavy, blue-rinsed hair
showing above the deep collar.
She rapped the counter, imperi-
ously, and he glimpsed the
brilliance of diamonds. Go on,
bang away, Harry thought, as if
you own the blooming earth.
Don’t even look at me. I’m only
a bit of dirt. I hope that girl
gives you something for your
corner
The black witch finished her
purchases, and turned to go,
clutching pink-stringed parcels.
At that moment three more
people came in, a young man
and two girls.
TIROTHER and sister, the two
nearest, the Pole decided, at
one glance: the other girl held
his attention. She was slim,
stylish, distinct, in the pattern of
the night, like a flame, or a
stiletto, or, perhaps, some flower,
vivid, but not full-blown. She
was not beautiful, but she held his
eye.
The chemist smiled a greeting,
but the large lady cut it in two.
“Where’s Tom White?” she
demanded, in a terrible voice ;
a broadside. of trumpets. The
chemist blinked. Even for so
large a body the voice was too
much. There she goes, Harry
thought bitterly, wrapped in furs
and dripping with diamonds,
shouting the place down. Knocks
people about and doesn’t even
look at them.
“Mr. White isn’t here
now”
“Where is he?” the large lady
boomed.
“I’m afraid” The tele-
phone rang, and with a word of
apology the girl flew to answer
it. They heard her crisp voice.
“Yes, doctor . . . Yes, of course,
if it’s urgent . . . Yes, Just a
tick till I get ray pen. Yes . . .
yes . . .” Her head appeared
briefly at the doorway. “Sorry,
won’t be a moment. Yes —um.”
“Looks as if Jill’s tied up for
a while,” the young man said to
the girls.
Harry became aware of the
Pole looking at him. Harry was
sensitive,
“Who do y’ think you’re starin’
at?” he wanted to know.
“Sorry.” The Pole looked
away.
“We’re next,” Harry said,
when the chemist came out. But
he said it half-heartedly. He
knew the large lady held the
floor.
She took; up the interrogation.
“Look, young woman, I want
Tom White. Where is he?”
The girl, Jill, took a deep
breath. “Mr. White isn’t here
any more. He has sold the busi-
ness.”
“Sold out, eh? Why didn’t
he tell me? I always dealt here.
Sold out. Well, he might have
told me. I got everything here.
He drank, you know. I’m not
surprised. Probably had to sell.
I had everything delivered. Mrs.
Bright. From opposite. I got
everything here. Where’s the
chemist?”
“/ am the chemist.”
“You’re the chemist! Well, I
don’t know. I’m sure. Tom
White wasn’t much of a man—
smarmy—but he suited me as
a chemist. I got everything
here”
“Excuse me, there’s my
phone”
“And of course he drank. But
a girl! Well, I don’t know. I’m
sure. What did you pay for this
place?”
“The phone”
“Let it ring. What did you
pay to come into this place?”
“ ’Ere, ’ere,” Harry protested.
“Come off it. That’s a personal
question”
“Aw, shut up.” This from
Herbie.
“Nosey old bitch!”
“Excuse me , . .” the girl ran.
“Yes . . . yes. No, I can’t do
it tonight, Mrs. Perkins. No,
I’m sorry”
“You have a lot of telephone-
calls,” Mrs. Bright boomed dis-
approvingly.
Jill smiled wanly. “It’s part
of this business. Now,” briskly,
“what can I do for you, Mrs.
Bright?”
“Miss,” pleaded Harry.
“Mrs. James Bright. What I
really wanted to know was when
the buses run.”
“The buses?” Jill stared at
her. She had a desire to laugh.
“’Ear that, Herbie? Buses!
And we’ve been waitin’ an hour.
Who does she think she is?”
“Mrs. James Bright,” said
Herbie, who was not without
humor.
“Tom always knew when the
buses went,” Mrs. Bright boomed
patiently.
“I’m afraid I don’t know when
the buses go.”
“Well, the least I expect is a
civil answer,” Mrs. Bright
boomed unexpectedly. She
wrapped her fur around her and
set sail. Harry pulled a horrible
face and muttered fiercely. She
stopped at the doorway. “You’ll
have to mend your ways, young
woman, if you expect to do
business in this neighborhood.
I expect civility.”
“Old cow,” said Harry.
((Continued on next page )


TILL ran a hand through her
** fair hair. She looked dazed.
“You have some odd cus-
tomers, Jill,” the young man said
pleasantly. Harry looked up
challengingly.
“Odd!” Jiff said. “Yes, I’ve
had some odd ones tonight.
Hullo, Pauline. ’Lo, Juliette.
Won’t be a minute.”
Herbie spoke up. “Now,
miss, please. Me and my mate
have been waitin’ a long time.
We’ve got a date, matter of fact,
and we’re late now. So what
about a bit of service?”
She glanced at him: “Is it a
prescription?”
Harry crowed; “Yair. It’s a
prescription.” The large lady’s
departure seemed to have revived
his dampened spirits. “It’s Dr.
Moore’s prescription, for my old
dad.”
He glared around. He had a
confused feeling that these people
were sneering at him, and
through him, in some tricky way,
at his old dad.
“I want it made up right
away! ” he said vehemently,
“Show me.” She held out her
hand, read Bill Moore’s crabbed
handwriting on the crumpled
notepaper. As she had thought,
a week old. Nothing important.
“Look,” she said, and glanced at
her watch, “I should be closed
now. However, I’ll make this up
in a minute. But this gentleman
is first” —she smiled briefly; he
had been very patient—“razor-
blades, wasn’t it?”
Harry roared: “What? Tm!
The Balt! Like hell! And my
old dad coughin’ his ’eart up! ”
She had had enough. Her
cheeks went pink and her blue
eyes sparkled, “Don’t you dare
raise your voice to me, you
drunken lout! Here!” She
tossed the soiled paper over the
counter. “Take it and go. Go
on, get out of my shop! ”
Harry gaped, but he held his
ground. “My old dad” he
said doggedly.
He felt a hand on his shoulder.
“You heard her, chum,” the
young man said firmly. He
jerked his thumb, “Go on!”
Harry glared, contemplating
furious action. But Herbie
stepped forward, light-footed, the
fighting-man, mateship resurgent.
He tapped the young man’s
white shirt with a stubby finger.
“Keep out of this, boyo,” he
said grimly- “My mate’s got
his rights, see? Keep your bib
out of it!”
TT was difficult to tell who
struck the first blow. It
always is. But there was a gasp,
a squeak, from the three girls,
and boiling action. But the
young man, whatever his inten-
tions, lacked Herbie’s experience
of the tactics of street fighting,
his knowledge of the importance
of the first few seconds, of the
first half-dozen punches. Herbie
was inside, in a flurry of body-
punches, and the young man was
wilting, backing away, Harry
opened his mouth to roar, and as
the girl, the young man’s sister,
screamed “Doug!” the Pole
thought “This is my luck!” He
tripped Harry as he came, roar-
ing valiantly. Stiff roaring,
Harry sprawled at the slim girl’s
feet.
Out of the corner of his eye
the Pole saw a stack of cartons
collapse, the girls’ white faces,
and the young man landing a
couple of shrewd blows. He had
the reach.
But so had Harry. Harry was
back on his feet, more quickly
than he had hoped, advancing
on him, grimly, professionally.
Fists weaving, crouched, long
chin held in and shielded by his
hunched left shoulder, pale eyes
intent. Harry meant business.
A ridiculous rooster, circling his
prey . ..
A heavy punch rocked his
head, and another, and triangular-
light flashed in darkness, roaring
darkness. He swung, and
missed, was hit again, and
missed, but he could see Harry’s
red face now, grinning, sure of
himself. The Pole could not box.
had never learnt to box, and he
realised that this man could
punch him into insensibility. But
there are other ways of fight-
ing —
He ducked, weaved, ducked
again, like a swordsman, nervous
knee bent, down to the floor,
then up, under Harry’s swinging
arms and furious red face. He
closed, gripping Harry’s waist,
one leg between Harry’s kicking
legs, lifting. Harry stiffened,
resisted, but he was spinning
now. Another quick movement
and he had Harry’s neck locked.
Harry fought back, but he in-
creased the pressure.
Another burst of energy, a
twist, with his body behind it,
his weight, and more; the edge
of savagery men learn when they
fight, not for fun, but for their
lives ; and Harry was down, all
at once, a tremendous crash. The
Pole fell with him, and, seizing
his hair in both hands, banged
Harry’s head against the floor
with keen enjoyment.
FIRM hands dragged him
away. He stood, white-faced
and panting, blinking at a big
man with close-cropped grey
hair, a hard brown, carved face
and piercing eyes. The big man
frowned at him, “What’s this?”
He was wearing a grey suit, and
all the time he was frowning at
him, more thoughtfully than in
condemnation, the Pole thought,
a lean, big-knuckled hand was
playing with an old-fashioned
gold watchchain, hung with little
medals, strung across the grey,
loose waistcoat. The big grey
man had authority.
“I —we” he stammered,
and his glance returned to the
rhythmically rocking watch-
chain.
“Let me explain, Inspector,”
Jill said. “These men.. .She
gave a colored excited summary,
repeating herself many times
“H-mm. I see.”
The big man stared sternly at
Herbie and at Harry, who was
sitting up, groaning, holding his
head in his hands. Herbie
looked little the worse for wear.
He had taken a comb out, and
quickly arranged his oiled curls.
“It wasn’t as bad as she makes
out,” Herbie said, without heat.
“About six of one and half a
dozen of the other, I’d say.”
So. Inspector. The Pole
glanced sideways. He had
thought it was something like
that.
The young man, Doug, looked
gallant and dishevelled, with a
cut lip. That comedian, Harry,
was on his feet now, gaping, his
Adam’s-apple performing acro-
batics,
“All right, you men, clear out.
Think yourselves lucky you’re
not spending the night in the
cells.”
“Eh, eh, what’s this?” Harry
protested vaguely, like a decapi-
tated rooster, stiff intent on his
amorous affairs. “Gotter meet
a popsy....”
Herbie’s elbow cut his breath.
“Shut up!” he whispered
urgently. “Don’t y’ know who
he is?”
“No.” Harry was puzzled.
“Who?”
“Stone. Detective-Inspector
Stone, That’s who. Now phut
up"
The inspector turned his grey
head. “Still here?” he asked
mildly.
“Just goin’, Inspector,” Herbie
said hastily. He dragged the
dazed Harry by the arm. At the
door he stopped. “Sorry if we
was any trouble, Miss,” he said,
and turned to go.
“Someone will probably be
keeping an eye on you two,” the
inspector said thoughtfully. They
hurried away.
The inspector turned to the
young man. “You’re not guilt-
less in this affair, either, Doug,”
he said gravely. “Don’t you
know any better—you, a solicitor
—than to get mixed up in
brawls?”
“Well, he hasn’t been a
solicitor very long,” his sister
said apologetically.
“He mightn’t be one for long,
either,” the inspector said grimly.
“In any case, Pauline, that’s not
the point. He isn’t any sort of
a solicitor. He belongs to a
firm, and a family, that mean
something in this town. If you're
born with a name like that, the
least you can do is not act the
fool. Oh, I know, I know,” he
held up his hand with an ex-
pression of weary scorn. “You
couldn’t help it, you didn’t start
it, and so on. Don’t you think
they all say that? Granting it’s
true, or half-true, in your case,
what difference does it make?
What do you suppose a
uniformed constable would think,
if he walked in a minute ago?
What do you think he would do
if you gave him any of your
cheek? They’d back him up
at the station, too, don’t worry.
And how would an affair like
that look, splashed over the
Sunday papers? Touched up a
bit?”
Brother and sister stared at
the floor, chastened. He was
impressive, this policeman, the
Pole thought: heavy, but with
a weight of authority that could
not be ignored.
“As for you, young lady,” the
inspector said, turning his steel-
grey eyes on Jill. “Learn a bit
of tact. Any woman can start
men fighting. It takes something
to stop them, sometimes. I’ve
known women, in rough pubs,
handle men who would fight at
the drop of a hat. It can be
done.”
“The only thing is, Inspector,”
Jiff said, bridling, “this isn’t
a pub. It’s supposed to be a
chemist’s shop.”
Suddenly she looked ready to
cry
“I say ” Doug said anxiously,
“Till’q find a nrpttv mempd even
Jills had a pietty rugge even
know ' 11 wasn t her
fault, those yahoos staited a
row.
The inspector looked at the
girl behind the counter; “Well,
yes, it hasn’t been nice. Mind,
though, next time could be
worse. You might have your
windows kicked in.”
The slim girl laughed, gaily,
spontaneously. The Pole stared
at her. “What an old bogey-
man you are, Stonewall,” she
said. “Frightening the wits out
of everyone.”
The big man glanced at her,
and, for the first time, something
like amusement crossed his long
brown face. Bushy eyebrows
shot up; “You always were a
cheeky child, Juliette,” he said.
Then, turning to the Pole:
“Where do you fit in?” There
was no trace of geniality now
in the grey eyes.
The Pole told him, and the
inspector listened, nodding. He
cut him off in mid-sentence with
an abrupt hand, like a traffic
policeman. The gold watch-
chain kept swinging.
6 6]vpAME?” he asked
brusquely.
“Komerowski. Alex Korner-
owski.”
So it began, the questions, the
familiar questions. But it was
not unpleasant. It was a muffled
echo from the past, and, in a
queer way, he almost enjoyed it.
As though he and the inspector
were old friends, really, and the
inspector was only pretending
to be stem and suspicious, play-
ing an elaborate game, every
move perfectly understood by
both of them. Once he fancied
the sharp eye winked, and he
almost smiled, but caught him-
self in time, a spasm rippling
across his face with the nervous
effort; knowing quite clearly, in
that second, that he had been
mistaken. Or the inspector was
an old enemy, met again after
many years, when all cause for
enmity was dead, burnt-out, and
the two of them could take a
dry, anaesthetised pleasure in
raking out the ’ clinkers and
examining them. Curious relics
from a catastrophic fire.. Yes, it
was like that: an old love, or an
old hatred....
It was a mood, an emotion, no
more. He answered the ques-
tions clearly and politely. And
m some corner of hls mmd he
taspector -
Nationality.
“Stateless. Native of Poland.”
“stonewall loves this sort of
thing,” Juliette said to Pauline,
“Wouldn’t he have made a lovely
Gestapo man?” Pauline giggled.
“Leave the poor dear alone, and
come up to the flat and have a
drink ” Juliette’s eyes met the
Pole’s briefly—large, lovely,
hazel eyes—and he felt a warmth
°f sympathy there/ behind the
coolness.
The inspector ignored her. The
questions droned on.
His contract had expired, he
said. Yes, he had worked it
out. He had been working on
the Snowy River Scheme, but—
“l am finished now. lam look-
ing for a job in Sydney.” He
heard himself say this with a
mild surprise. It had been a half-
formulated plan, an idea, tossed
about in his mind in the heat of
many others, but now, as he
spoke, it was formed, complete.
He glanced at the girl, Juliette.
She was frowning slightly, look-
ing down at the floor, her hands
held in front of her, slim fingers
interlocked. He could see that
the look of keenness, of patrician
delicacy, came from high cheek-
bones, a rather long neck, a
gracefully aquiline nose, and a
forehead sloping slightly to the
roots of rich brown hair, swept
back. Everything about her was
sharp-edged, firs and air. Even
in repose she had an eager, lean-
ing-forward look. Her mouth
was full, red, tender, an unex-
pected flower in that keen face,
over a small chin. She looked
up quickly, and smiled warmly
and brilliantly. She had a sud-
den beauty.
She looked at him but spoke
to the inspector; “Finished,
Stonewall? Then perhaps we
can go—Jiff’s ready. You are
coming up for a drink, aren’t
you—and to watch the fire-
works?”
“Yes, I’ve finished.” The in-
spector said it with a snap, like
shutting a stiff-backed notebook.
“But* I won’t come up, thanks
all the same, not now. Might
drop in later, if that will be all
right?”
“Perfectly, Stonewall, darling.
Always welcome. We’ll be up
late, anyway.”
The big man paused at the
door, tugging at the lobe of his
ear; “Er, heard from home
lately, Juliette?”
She smiled. There was a bril-
liant and embracing friendliness
to the girl. “Had a letter yester-
day. Dad’s coming down next
week. He’s booked in at a pub.
Can’t stand my cooking, or
habits, apparently. He’ll be
seeing you, he says.”
“H’m. Good, Well, I must
be off.” He nodded briefly all
round.
“Good-night, inspector.”
“See you later.”
“He’ll be in later,” Juliette
said, watching the stiff-backed,
long-legged figure marching
down the neon-hung street.
“You know, he often pops in on
me. Checking up on my morals,
I do believe.”
“Poor old devil,” said Doug
soberly, “he can’t sleep,”
“Since his wife died,” Pauline
explained to Jill, who had raised
her eyebrows. “A terrible thing.
He came home and found her
gassed last year.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Juliette
said. “He was always like that
in a way. He’s worse now, of
course, and lonely. But he never
did seem to need much sleep, I
remember, at home. An iron
man. Dad used to caff him, and
he was, too, I suppose.”
'She smiled, her sudden smile.
“He’s an old ogre, though. He
scared away one of my ad-
mirers, such a nice little man. It
appears he’d been in trouble
with the police. I tried to explain
to Stonewall that, as a sociology
student, naturally I’m interested
in such cases. But he was very
stuffy about it. Anyway, the
damage was done. My little man
wouldn’t come within a mile
of the flat when he knew Stone-
wall was in the habit of
dropping in.”
“He has some very old-
fashioned ideas,” Doug said,
smiling.
“He has. But he’s a nice old
ogre, I keep a bottle of Scotch
for him, and he can sit there and
terrify visitors to his heart’s con-
tent.”
“Is he” Jill hesitated.
“Some sort of a relation?”
“No. But he’s a very old
friend of my father’s. Of Doug
and Pauline’s father, too.”
Jill wrinkled her brow. She
thought it strange. “He’s not
like the ordinary policeman, you
know, Jill,” Doug said, and was
puzzled when Juliette laughed.
Juliette explained. “You are
a snob, you know, Doug,” she
said lightly.
“I’m not one of the wonderful
Baxters, if that’s what you
mean,” he said hotly, “who


mm
(v/V
v.
ia
. mi
S3Si3«
m
S5®S
///
Jit
fJt
"jSi/jJj
YOUR
TAI LOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
BVusabec
-IflatU
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
think they’re so exclusive the
ordinary rules don’t apply to
them.”
She stared at him coldly;
“You have a nasty streak in you,
Doug. A petty, vindictive streak.
I’d go so far as to call it a
feminine streak,”
“If that’s what you think....”
began the young man furiously,
but his sister said quickly
“Shut up, Doug,” She was a
plump, fair girl, with a firm
placid face. “We all grew up
together, you know, Jill,” she
said apologetically. “You must
excuse these family rows. You’re
ready? Good. Shall we go?”
They had forgotten the Pole.
They remembered him, all to-
gether, in an embarrassed turn-
ing of heads. Doug broke the
awkward silence.
“I say, thanks for giving us a
hand. You were pretty good.”
But Juliette said swiftly:
“But of course you’ll come, too,
have a drink with us.” She
pirouetted smartly and intro-
duced him gravely. “Mr. Kor-
nerowski... Miss Hillyer, Miss
Bradfield, Mr. Bradfield. I’m
Juliette Baxter,” she said, and
for some reason laughed. The
Pole wondered at her remember-
ing his name.
They walked out to the car,
Juliette chattering gaily, the
others uncomfortably silent.
'T'HE car was long, black,
•*- shiny, expensive. As Doug
was fumbling with the keys the
idea came to the Pole. It was
a good idea, he felt sure. It
was his luck leading him by the
hand.
He braced himself: “Please.
Let me be host. I know a foreign
restaurant that might amuse
you, we will go there, if you
please.” He said it with some
dignity.
They stared at him, the three
girls and the young well-
nourished man, and he thought
quickly. But, no, he was sure he
was right. To play host would
correct the balance, make him
less the outsider, the alien. He
could afford it. There was his
luck, urging him.....
The young man tugged at his
collar: “But we’re going to
Juliette’s place , , .”
“Please. I am a guest in your
country. Be mine for a little.”
To his own ear it sounded
wrong. Theatrical. Oily. He saw
the quick frown on the slim
girl’s face, the shadow, and
rushed on: “Please. I would
be very grateful.” He felt ex-
cited, as though he were
gambling for big money.
Doug shrugged: “Well, why
not? What do you say?” He
looked around,
“Well,” Jill said doubtfully.
“I think it’s a lovely idea,”
Juliette said. “Where do you
suggest, Mr. Kornerowski?”
ii'C'Oß me there are no more
heroes,” Alex said,
Juliette glanced at him
obliquely. They were seated
side-by-side, Jill and Doug sit-
ting opposite, and Pauline at the
end of the table. They had had
zakooskas of Tartar eggs, stuffed
in the real style, with caviare ;
borsch ; and then beef strogon-
off. It was a Russian restaurant,
and the food was good but ex-
pensive. They sat, now, over
their coffee. They called him
Alex.
“What do you mean by that?”
Doug asked.
He shrugged and lit a cigarette
before answering, studying the
healthy young face opposite.
This was a simple young man,
really. He no longer wished to
impress him. He was a nuisance,
and he would like to get rid of
him. It was the girl, Juliette, he
wanted. The others were super-
fluous.
He gave the obvious answer,
evenly; “I mean that most men,
when you look closely at them,
have qualities that make it very
difficult to admire them.”
Doug nodded: “Yes. You’ve
got something there. No man a
hero to his valet, eh?” One
for you, you cultured European
bastard, he thought with satis-
faction. Because that’s what you
were, most likely, back where
you came from. If they have
valets. You change your status
when you cross the seas. A
waiter, or something, there, and
posing as an intellectual, a
noble, melancholy Slavonic soul,
here. Trying to pinch my girl
from under my nose. He
glanced at Juliette anxiously,
Juliette was romantic.
“I mean, my rich young
friend,” Alex said, leaning for-
ward, his hands clenched on
the table, “I mean that if you
have seen men starved, beaten,
herded like cattle. If you have
seen the strongest break and
the bravest whimper like
whipped dogs”—against his will
violence was throbbing through
him ; his voice was rising; he
controlled it with an effort—
“if you had some experience like
that, my friend, you would have
other opinions,” he finished
quietly. He took the bill and
stood up. “You will excuse
me.” He paused to pay at the
desk and then walked through
the curtained doorway.
In the corridor he stopped to
light another cigarette. The
other he had crushed in his
hand. He had not long to wait.
A quick, indignant tapping of
high heels sounded behind him,
and Juliette burst through the
red curtains. “I think they be-
haved disgracefully!” she ex-
claimed, breathing quickly. Her
face was pale, her eyes shining.
“Those girls! Yawning their
heads off! That silly Doug, with
his puppyish sneers! What you
must think of us, I don’t know,
but I’ve come to apologise for
all of us!”
He shrugged: “But they are
your friends. Perhaps I gave
offence without meaning...”
“Offence be blowed!”
He looked at her gravely: “I
am very grateful to you.”
She smiled radiantly: “Well,
anyway, I don’t want to be asso-
ciated with that pack of morons,
even if they are my friends...”
“But you cannot leave
them....” he said quickly.
“But I d0n’t...0h!...”
“I shall be happy to escort
you home.”
They stared at each other.
“I can hear them coming,”
Alex said.
“We 11....”
“Quick, the back way.” He
seized her hand and hurried her
along the corridor. In the dark-
ness of the yard they collided
with someone. A muttered word,
a foreign word, and they raced
on. But at the gate Alex stopped
and stared back at the huge,
shambling figure outlined
against the yellow light from
the corridor.
“Someone you know?” the
girl asked.
“Yes, someone I know.
Come.”
The dark lane led on to the
lighted street, and, in a minute,
Alex had hailed a taxi. In
another twenty minutes they
were in her flat.
TTR looked around quickly.
The flat was magnificent.
He had expected it to be.
“You live here alone?”
She laughed, a little ner-
vously : “Yes. You’re not plan-
ning to rob me, are you?”
“No. Not that,” He crossed
the room and stared out, over
the jewelled harbor.
“Drink?”
He turned and saw her hold-
ing out a glass.
“Thank you.” He sipped.
Gin and orange, with ice. She
had taken off her coat, and
now, for the first time, she
noticed that he was still wear-
ing his. “Let me take your
coat.” She held out her slim
hands for it, smiling. She was
still very young, he thought
absently.
“Now,” she said quietly, sit-
ting down. “Tell me about it...
what you were trying to say back
there...” She set down her
glass on the little table and they
both sat facing the harbor, two
armchairs at a slight angle from
each other.
“For me,” he said heavily,
“there are no heroes, be-
cause...”
He was a good story-teller. A
good story-teller leaves gaps
for the imagination, and this
girl had a quick, a poetic
imagination, leaping ahead and
around the careful words like
fire. He could see her eyes
widen, kindle and flinch. He
felt a wondering contempt for
himself that he could use his
own story, deliberately, to pro-
voke pity and horror. Provoke
them for gain.
But that gain, obscure in de-
tail, was plain enough and
worth —he stumbled over a word
as he talked, sucking in his
breath —worth anything. It was
not just the girl now, but every-
thing the girl could give him. It
was his luck, his fate, and noth-
ing could spoil it. No pity, no
remorse could change anything.
At least he had the intellectual
satisfaction of knowing him-
self. As he talked he was
amused by the eternal duality of
truth and fiction. He was a
fictional character in this girl’s
eyes, touched with her romantic-
ism and aspirations. Well,
we 11....
But he didn’t tell lies. That
was one of the rules of the game.
He had done these things, seen
and suffered these strange
actions in another world. Only
it wasn’t the same. There was
no glory in the suffering, only
meanness and pain. Blood has
a bright color, but it smells
unpleasant. The dominant color
was grey; not struggle and
triumph, but struggle and lice.
Dirt and disease and the stink
of corruption... Desdemona
saw Othello through Desde-
mona’s eyes. What would he
look like to a policeman? His
Desdemona listened with shin-
ing eyes. She got up to get
another drink.
As she sat down he watched
her with shrewd eyes. Of
course it wasn’t magic. There
had to be something else, some
pull of the sexes. He was con-
fident of that, too.
You don’t make things up, he
told himself cynically, but what
about what you leave out? Eh?
Eh?
The thought worried him,
nibbling at his satisfaction.
Cautiously, bit by bit, he fed
more detail into the story.
Harsh bits. Ugly bits. But, even
with this development, the
duality continued, two taut
wires. She placed her own in-
terpretation on what he said.
Or was it his interpretation?
Was he cheating, after all?
Perhaps it didn’t matter. He
had his final integrity, his
knowledge of himself. An in-
tegrity of evil, his father would
have said. But his father was
dead: he was alive. That was
a big difference. He knew what
he was, and where he was going,
and he could no more be stopped
than the bullets that smash a
man’s chest to red pulp can be
stopped once the firing-squad’s
fingers have taken the final
pressure.
He had practised this talent
of his, this exercise in imagina-
tion, for light and immediate
rewards: hot, gaping girls: silly,
giggling girls: you had to blunt
your own sensibilities for that
sort of audience. The prize
had never been so dazzling, the
pride in craftsmanship so keen,
or the reception so sensitive. It
was sensitive. He sensed that
she knew, now, the emptiness in
him, the blind power. But the
thought did not alarm him.
That, too, would have a certain
{Continued on page 27)


Acclaimed by Truckmen throughout Australia...
new
the
BRITISH
They’re better than ever! Carrying
on the well-earned reputation that
established BEDFORD as “Aust-
ralia’s Favourite Truck” these
new models and the 6/7 tonners,
have all the features -owner and
drivers want! Test it for yourself!
Get in behind the wheel of a
Bedford at your Dealer’s tomorrow.
from
5 TONS
810 6-7
CWT. TO
AND ™ E
tonneb
Here are some of the reasons why
BEDFORDS WIN NATION-WIDE ACCLAIM!
LONGER CAB LIFE . . . ROOM
FOR 3 BIG MEN Rugged all-
steel cab rides on 3 point rubber
mounting for longer life. Generous
room for 3 big men with fully
adjustable driver’s seat.
THREE GREAT ENGINES POWER
THE RANGE Three low revving
powerful 6 cyl. O.H.V. engines are
matched to the individual truck capacity.
Synchromesh gears give split second
changes without loss of engine speed.
EASIER STEERING Worm and
sector steering on all models larger
knuckle stubs and front hub bearings
on 15 cwt. to 3 tonner.
SMOOTHER RIDING Long
front springs (45") on all models with
double-acting shock absorbers on front
and rear of 15 and 30 cwt. models and
on front of the 6/7 tonners.
LONGER FRAME LIFE Rugged
chassis frames are engineered for each
particular capacity and wheelbase.
LOCKHEED HYDRAULIC BRAKES
Famous “Lockheed” triple-safety
brakes standard on all models
with vacuum servo assistance on the
heavier models above 30 cwt.
GREATER ENGINE ACCESSIBILITY
Front-end design allows easy access
for speedy, time-saving maintenance.
◄
825/33
<1!
BIG
3-MAM CAB
with controlled ventilation
GMAC Confidential
Hire Purchase Plan
See your dealer about
this practical plan oper-
ated by G.M’s. own
Finance Company.
3 tons w .v>. - *l^73
4 tons V>l wb . . £lt<
5 tons , f f \3lB
= tons to* a\ .
at °“ • a-7 Tonncts
j »he B’9 “ , *1440
6|l tons U 6" b £1460
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia.
BUILD YOUR. BUSINESS ON BRITISH BED
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
THE BARDS SALUTE THE
QUEEN
[The Bulletin has been inundated
by a flood of verses addressed to the
Queen. It has not the space to print
the lot, but is pleased to present a
Legal Notice
' WILLIAM MILLER BUCHANAN and
CHARLES PAKENHAM BUCHANAN.
INFORMATION regarding the abovenamed
formerly of 52 Hill Street. Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane, or their relative
descendants, who are entitled to share
in a deceased estate would be appreciatea
by THOMAS' McCORMAOK, So llo ** o /;
Heindorff House, 171 Queen Street. Bns
bane.
Missing Friend
GEORGE CHRISTOPHER
heard of at Albert Park in 1931.
anyone knowing the present address t
abovenamed communicate Wi
ABBOTT. STILLMAN & WILSON, sou
citors, 422 Little Collins Street. Me
bourne ?
Divorce Notice
hTtle SUPREME COUhToFI^'
Divorce No. 4594 of 1953 on _ the
of desertion without just can® 6 or
for three years and upward.. and is aski g
the Court to exercise its ]
Section 19 (2) (a) of the jf atrl^ efen d
Causes Act 1899 If you wish tlie
you might enter an appearance m.
Divorce Registry S u Pye™ e . ,j a y jgjf
Street Sydney by the 3rd day °- 0 ? Jithout
and obtain a copy of theM. ® beST ,
charge from ALLAN E.. L u r h ain bers,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutua d oUGHAN.
129 Pitt Street. Sydney.—J- fouua
Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of A Shameful
Inheritance and The Lair of the
White Worm. —5719.
To buy copy of Propagation of
Trees, by Kain.—5722.
Words of “The Gasometer,” by
Adam McCay, published in 1914.
—5729.
Typist, Sydney, wants typing work,
used to typing authors’ manuscripts,
neat and accurate, moderate fees.
—5728.
Furnished or unfurnished cottage
or flat, anywhere Sydney, permanent
rental, suitable man, wife and two
children.—5727.
Words of poem “The Fatal Drink.”
—5724.
Words of poem “Breaking —
Greece, 1941,” published after the
evacuation of the A.I.F. from
Greece.—5723.
To buy copy of Such Is Life, by
Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”),
original Bulletin edition, 1903 ; also
Songs of the Army of the Night, by
Francis Adams.—5725.
Married man, ex-R.N. sickbay
attendant, seven years’ experience
English hospital; first-aid and nurs-
ing duties; can do X-ray work, wants
position N.S.W. country hospital
where furnished accommodation wife
and family would be provided. —5726.
Does Anybody Know?
What is a Trafalgar chair? —5721.
Information Sought
What Australian writer ■ used the
pseudonym “Milky White”?
E. S. Emerson, who was a regular
contributor for many years to The
Bulletin, “The Lone Hand” and
other journals. He was born at
Ballarat in 1870 and died in Bris-
bane in 1919. A volume of collected
work was published by Gordon and
Gotch in 1904. He was a second-
cousin of Ralph Waldo Emerson.
* ♦ ♦ .•
Some details concerning H. E.
Boote and his books?
Henry Ernest Boote came to Aus-
tralia in 1889, and immediately
threw himself into radical journalism.
He edited various Queensland
journals and newspapers until 1911,
when he joined the Sydney
“Worker”; from 1914 until 1943 he
was editor of that paper. Died in
Sydney, 1949, at the age of 84. He
published a number of books of
prose and verse, including As I Went
By, 1933; The Land of Whereisit,
1919; The Human Ladder, 1920;
The Siren City, 1935 ; I Look Forth,
1937; May Day, 1938. A memorial
volume of his work was published
in 1951, The Dim Rainbow and
Other Poems.
♦*• ' *
CO Is phrenology a recognised
science? (2) What is it based upon?
(1) No. (2) It is based on the
assumption that “faculties” are
localised in the brain, and that these
areas arc in evidence on the skull.
It owes its vogue to the fact that
out of some three dozen “faculties”
and their combinations a professor
of phrenology can construct a variety
of vague generalities, many of which
are bound to be endowed with special
significance by the subject.
« * * «
Recipe for home-made toilet-
soap?
Take 51b. mutton-fat which has
been clarified and freed from salt
and impurities, a 11b. tin of caustic-
soda, 1 quart water, 2 tablespoons
each of ammonia and powdered
borax, 4oz, glycerine and ioz. oil
of lavender. Dissolve the soda in
the water all night, melt the fat to
as low a temperature as possible
so that it can be worked without
hardening, then beat it very slowly
in the soda-lye. Add the lavender,
borax, ammonia and glycerine
slowly in that order, beating well
between each. Then whip hard for
a few minutes. Mould into shapes
or bars and set aside to harden.
May be colored with a few drops
of cochineal or laundry-blue.
« * ♦ ♦
Details concerning the man after
whom Townsville {Q.) was named?
It was named after Robert Towns,
who was born at Long Horsley in
Northumberland on November 10,
1791. He was apprenticed in early
youth on a collier, eventually became
master of a vessel, and in 1827
brought his own ship, The Brothers,
to Australia. In 1842 he settled in
Sydney, founding the firm of Towns
and Co., and became a pioneer in
the South Sea trade; he also took
up land in Queensland, and was
the first to introduce cotton cultiva-
tion on an extensive scale, farm-
ing a plantation of 2000 acres, on
which he employed 260 South Sea
islanders for several years. He was
connected with the Bank of
N. S. Wales, and was member of
the N. S. Wales Legislative Council.
He died at Cranbrook, Sydney —now
a public school —on April 11, 1873.
* * * *
What is “sea-grass” or “sea-
wrack” ? In what Australian waters
is it to be found? Has it any com-
mercial uses ?
It is Posidonia australis, a sub-
merged maritime plant covering a
large area in shallow water along
the coasts. It extends from West
Australia to New South Wales, and
is very plentiful in Spencer’s and
St. Vincent’s Gulfs, where it has
been exploited for some years. It is
rolled-up into felted balls by the
action of the waves, and thrown-up
on the beach in great quantities.
The fibre manufactured from it has
been used in paper-making and for
weaving into a coarse cloth, as well
as for carpet-making.
Brief Answers’
D.M.: Ironbark makes an excellent
keel and beech is suitable for plank-
ing, but for a heavy-working vessel
spotted-gum frames and kauri plank-
ing are best. Oregon pine in heavy
planking is excellent if specially
selected timber is used W.W.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney, for pamphlet “The Milch
Goat” H.D.S.: Newspapers pub-
lished in N. S. Wales are prohibited
by law from furnishing particulars con-
cerning sweeps conducted outside the
State L.P.F.: Write Arthur Yates
.and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney.
R.J.C.: Practically impossible
for the amateur to repolish tortise-
shell; the work requires treatment
with power-driven buffers and, if the
pieces are valuable, should be en-
trusted to an expert. Simple treat-
ment may be given by rubbing with
a cloth dipped in olive-oil, and polish-
ing with old silk J.J.: You have
a lien over the article until the cost
of the repairs has been paid. Write
to him and say that if the amount
due is not paid within a reasonable
time —name it —you will sell the
article to discharge the debt and
forward any balance in his favor.
P.S.: (1) I.W.W. prosecutions in
Sydney occurred in December, 1916.
(2) Sentences were: Thomas Glynn,
John Hamilton, Donald McPherson,
William Beattie, Morris Joseph
Fagin, Donald Grant, William Teen,
15 years; Charles Reeves, Peter
Larkin, Bernard Besant, Thomas
Moore, 10 years; John Benjamin
King, 5 years. Tom Mann was not
in the case N.P.; “Heemskerck
Shoals,” by R. D. Fitz Gerald, was
originally published in The Bulletin
on March 8, 1944... .F.O’F.: Write
Archdeacon T. T. Reed, 42 Prescott-
avenue, Toorak Gardens, S.A
C.C.: The book you mention is not
a rare item and sells in Sydney for
about 15s R.K.: Philip Lindsay,
author of Panama Is Burning, is a
son of Norman Lindsay. He has
published an autobiography, I’d Live
the Same Life Over J. 8.: Saddle
for a Throne, by Will Ogilvie, pub-
lished by R. M. Williams, Adelaide,
1952 M.R.J.: “Charles Reade’s
Debt to William Howitt,” by Carl S.
Woodring, of the University of Wis-
consin, was published in Nineteenth
Century Fiction, Vol. 5, No. 1, 1950.
It deals extensively with the sources
of Reade’s Australian background in
that author’s It Is Never Too Late to
Mend M.E.S.: “John O’Brien” is
the pen-name of the late Rev. P. J.
Hartigan.
selection of short extracts from some
of them.]
F. (Chester Hill, N.S.W.):
Hurrah to a newborn reign!
Hurrah for our lovely Queen!
Let us work with might and main
And make our cities clean.
L.B.S. (Maroochydore, Q.);
So comes our Bess
As comes the morning glow.
Radiant and marvellous.
Let’s give her a grand show.
G. (Edgecliff, N.S.W.):
In February, nineteen fifty-four,
Fulfilling our wish of old
Our Queen set foot upon our shore
Australia’s beauty, to behold.
H. (Castle Hill, N.S.W.):
Sovereign lady coming South
With England’s Royal regalia;
To be acclaimed by Britain’s heirs
The first Queen of Australia.
H.F. (Cronulla, N.S.W.):
The people are singing,
The bells all are ringing,
She’s coming, she’s coming.
The Queen she is coming.
E.W.B. (Yandina, Q.):
Slow-hatched Cicada, Bell-bird, Kooka-
burra,
Wait with the many songsters rarely
seen;
To burst forth in grand symphonic rap-
ture ;
Throating a joyous welcome to
Our Queen 1
R.L.G. (Torquay, Q.):
Where in the gloom
The lurking bunyip frights
The dusky warrior,
Shaping boomerang and spear.
Cooeel Welcome to the South Land.
A.L. (Burwood, N.S.W.):
At last she is with us.
Yes, ’tis our beautiful Queen.
Oh, what a sacred memory.
Oh, what a glorious scene.
A.M.N. (Northbridge, N.S.W.):
Archbishop Mowll and Police Chief
Delaney
Did duty to our Blessed Lady.
Whilst the police, we might mention,
Wonderful men, stood at attention.
W.H.C. (Mt. Barker, W.A.):
Monarch of her vastly scattered realm,
Elizabeth and her consort at the helm.
Navigated may we be by those two
eternally.
J.M.C.V. (Newcastle, N.S.W,):
All our towns and cities,
All its hills and mountain slopes,
Its lakes, lagoons and rivers....
All these are vested, Madam, in the
Crown:
Take then ourselves, oh Queen, as part
of these.
J. (East Brisbane):
My Queen is but a mortal.
And yet it seems to me
No fairy, nor an angel
Could smile so graciously.
K. (Clifton Hill, Vic.);
Our social upper circles are excited
At the thought of banquets, tiaras, tails.
But the slighted who were not invited,
Will give vent to loud wails.
D.J. (Mount Gambier, S.A.);
Hurrah ! Hurrah ! Hurrah !
Hurrah for our mighty Queen I
Hurrah 1 Hurrah 1 Hurrah!
She’s lovely when she’s seen.
C.M.K. (Temora, N.S.W.):
When the Queen is sitting pensive,
And her thoughts are comprehensive
Of the tour of far Australia,
Of the many scenes and places,
And the cities and the faces
One face keeps recurring—Mr. Cahill.
K.M.N. (Sorell, Tas.):
Beautiful Hobart on the Derwent
Will soon be bright and gay.
For our gracious Queen is due to spend
There, a glorious and happy day.
J.J.M. (Sale, Vic.):
By her side rides Philip,
Her Consort, so tall and handsome.
So, Mum, let our glasses fill up.
And cheer and cheer and dance, Mum.
N.A.J. (Tibooburra, N.S.W.):
Old King Billy, of Mullumwingie,
Smoked his pipe, stroked his bingie.
Said he to his lubra; “If Queen visits
Billy. , »
You give her yabbie on a water-luy.
A.L.M. (Katoomba, N.S.W.):
A fast train to Sydney in the early morn
Of Feb. the Third. Blue skies and bngn
A. scaT’in Hyde Park on the green lawn.
Sardine sandwiches for lunch, and a bun.
Yivat Regina ! We await your coming,
Already the crowds are cheering ana
humming.


Light on Australian Foreign Policy
Power and the British Commonwealth
AN ANZAAS HIGHLIGHT
One of the clearest expositions of the roots of Australian
foreign policy ever heard from a Minister was that made at the
Anzaas Conference by Minister for Territories and former
diplomat Paul Hasluck. As the summary here given will show,
the issues examined are of vital concern to all thinking Austra-
lians: the analysis could well have an important influence on
the shaping of future policy. The exposition was one of the
most interesting papers delivered in the History and Political
Science section of the conference.
MR. HASLUCK opened
the symposium on “The
Conduct of External
Relations by the British
Commonwealth Countries since
1939” with the remark that he
intended to stick to the old
terms of the Balfour-Declara-
tion era “British Common-
wealth” and “Dominions,” be-
cause there were still no better
labels to be had, even though
the Declaration had ceased to
provide an exact definition of
what “British Commonwealth”
meant, though all could prob-
ably agree on four of its
characteristics; that its mem-
bers were freely associated to-
gether ; that its members had
autonomy; that their associa-
tion, apart from the strength of
the causes from which it had
sprung, was maintained by con-
sultation and co-operation on
particular issues as they arose.
Lastly, no country made
any solemn professions of in-
tentions or entered into binding
obligations in respect of its
Commonwealth membership.
Each member decided for itself
whether to stay in or out. They
were not bound by chapter and
verse of a charter, but relied
on their political experience to
adjust their mutual relation-
ships. They did not draw up
declarations, nor did they pass
long resolutions, “although they
had quite a talent for issuing
communiques.”
But this sort of examination
of the position soon led us to
begin to realise the changes that
had taken place since 1939.
While allegiance to the Throne
was still a strong binding force
among nations in the British
comity, it did not bind every-
one, and the common loyalty
today was the loyalty by all to
the ideals for which the Throne
stands in the minds of some.
The Crown was separately ad-
vised on all matters, even the
declaration of war, by its
advisers in the various nations
of the Commonwealth, and it
was still open to argument
whether the Crown was an
indivisible Crown, or had been
divided into six or seven differ-
ent Crowns.
There was eminent advice to
support the idea that it was
indivisible ; but there was no
doubt about the right of each
separate Dominion to take ad-
vice without any other Domin-
ion being asked to advise.
It might, of course, be diffi-
cult to argue from the indivisi-
bility of the Crown that it would
be impossible for any Dominion
owing allegiance to the Queen
to remain neutral when her
Majesty was at war, “for the
logical claim would be to argue
that the Queen, in theory, could
go to war with herself.” And
anyway, said Mr. Hasluck, the
same constitutionalist who ad-
mitted that would probably
admit also that even if a Domin-
ion were at war that Dominion
would still have the power to
decide whether it would fight—
that is, if the enemy did not
decide it himself.
While the membership of the
British Commonwealth had
changed since 1939, there was
no reason to believe that the
present position was final, or
for anyone to take it for granted
that the Irish Republic would
always stay out of the Com-
monwealth ; or even that a
country such as Burma would
never come in. But the prob-
lem was tending to the point
at which it would be, not how
four or five self-governing
Dominions of European out-
look could work together, but
of the way various groupings
of people of different racial
background and diverse social
development and national am-
bitions could find a common
interest and contribute to the
common advancement.
And, he said, a warning
needed to be issued that any
discussion of the Common-
wealth should not concentrate
too closely on the topics of
consultation and co-operation;
because sometimes the Com-
monwealth had suffered from a
tendency to make methods an
objective, a mistake not confined
to international affairs.
In Australian politics old-age
pensions, the arbitration system,
trade-union membership and
customs tariffs, which were only
methods by which objectives
were gained, had “been made
objectives themselves to the
confusion of good government.”
In the sphere of relations in
British Commonwealth affairs
the concentration on methods of
co-operation, rather than on co-
operation as an end in itself,
had meant that, by and large,
the British Commonwealth as a
whole had become “rather
hazy” about its aims and pur-
poses. And, though there was
a sort of self-satisfaction in co-
operation and in feeling happy
at being all good boys together,
what was otherwise pleasant and
seemly would end in a fading
and amiable futility unless we
did not just co-operate but co-
operated for a purpose.
The urgent question of British
Commonwealth countries today
was for them to clarify their
minds about what they were
associating together to do. Was
the British comity of nations
just another goodwill society, or
had the association a purpose?
In studying the changes which
had taken place since 1939, said
Mr. Hasluck, we had to con-
sider that in the post-war era we
had seen an unbalanced world
economic - system continuing,
and the power-conflict being
waged with both ideological and
military weapons so intensely
and bitterly that it was only
slight exaggeration to say that
we had been involved in another
world war.
During that period the broad
features of the world scene had
been the attempts to promote
the economic recovery of
Europe, despite the fact that
Europe was cut in half; the
attempts to find a new economic
pattern for an Asia resistant to
the old order and ambitious for
a new one; the conflict of the
attempt to improve world
economic conditions with the
defensive measures taken to
secure economic balance in a
world out of balance; and,
finally, “the fact that the West-
ern world, in trying to do these
things, had been rendered
clumsy and vulnerable by reason
of the accumulated riches and
industrial strength of its domin-
ant member, the United States
of America.”
So the world was a very dif-
ferent world from that in which
the British Commonwealth
worked out its internal constitu-
tional problems and conducted
its external relations between
1919-38. With mobility chang-
ing to a degree that almost
baffled imagination, with the jet
and the higher carrying-capacity
of aircraft making it necessary
to think in terms of hours rather
than in terms of miles, speed
and new weapons had caused us
to think of war in different
terms from those of the day in
which the German blitzkrieg
surprised amateur tacticians in
1939 and 1940.
Political groupings, facts of
industrial resources, communi-
cations, strategy and trade, had
to be viewed in a new light.
The Mediterranean must be
considered in relation to the
political changes in countries
bordering it and the change in
the groupings of power in
Europe.
The Indian Ocean, once a
lake for the British Navy, with
every gateway to it by land and
sea held by the British Empire,
now had more areas of conflict
on its borders than it had
guardians of its peace. Western
Europe, including the United
Kingdom, sometimes looked
more like the outpost than the
fortress —as it was of yore—of
the Western world.
To analyse, we must remem-
ber that in this age foreign
affairs separate themselves
almost automatically into two
compartments security and
prosperity; and when we con-
sidered the question of security
we came back to the question
already asked; “Could the mem-
bers of the British Common-
wealth find a common purpose,
achieve a common understand-
ing of the world situation which
each and all of them face?”
We could not discuss security
without recognising the fact of
power; and in this respect we
must think of the possession of,
and command over, men and
materials, and the capacity to
apply them at the time and
place we needed them to serve
national policy. And capacity
wasn’t an abstract word. It
covered such factors as financial
strength, industrial development,
military organisation, technical
training, social cohesion, geo-
graphy, and imponderable assets
in which the British race had
always been rich military
genius, high level of education
and patriotic feeling.
It was idle to try to turn a
blind eye to the importance of
power, even though the fact of
power was represented as being
rather wicked and contrary to
the U.N. Charter and principles.
Such ideas were once active even
among the Great Powers them-
selves, “especially the United
States and two of the most
active and vocal exponents of
these views, Australia and
N.Z.” These two components
of the British group in the
years after the war found a
closer affinity of thought with
other small nations than with
their fellow-members of the
Commonwealth. The nation in
the U.N. which had a constant
view of power more clearly than
any other was the U.S.S.R., and
the tendency of the West to
describe the condition of near-
enmity which developed be-
tween East and West as an ideo-
logical conflict still obscured the
recognition of the elements of
power in it. *
We couldn’t, of course,
simplify the international prob-
lems of today merely as a
struggle between two groups of
power. There was, in fact, a
great struggle between opposing
ideas, but the point was that in
the present decade and possibly
future ones power was likely to
determine the issue.
Mr. Hasluck said he retained
as an outstanding memory of
the facts of the conferences
which led to the foundation of
the United Nations the confu-
sion about the question of
power and Australia’s advocacy
of points of view tenable only if
power did not exist.
The Australian viewpoint, he
said, was not even logical to
the point of dreaming that those
who had power should sur-
render it to international author-
ity. Rather, the idea seemed to
be that the world should forget
that some nations were strong
and others weak and that all
should do what Australia
thought best.
However, this led to the point,
he believed, that the British
Commonwealth of Nations was
either a strongly-knit and effec-
tive grouping of power or a
weak and ineffective grouping.
None of our ideals would be
served, nor would the British
Commonwealth survive, unless
power was effectively grouped.
The British Commonwealth
was founded on ideas which
could make it the spearhead of
civilisation in all the continents ;
but he also believed that it had
to be a spearhead, and not the
silvery tip of a fairy-wand
which, by waving it over the
head of slumbering children,
could make every wish come
true.
We had to be prepared to
fight fight with physical
strength for anything we wanted
to bring about or keep in the
world today. He suggested that
the machinery and methods of
consultation and co-operation
within the British Common-
wealth might be shaped, to a
very large extent, according to
opinions its members might hold
of this phase of its common
interests.
The idea of regional security
which had persisted in post-war
years seemed to need close
scrutiny in relation to the future
of the British Commonwealth ;
for, though it might involve a
method handy in certain cir-
cumstances, it could help to
aggravate the dangers which it
sought to avert if it became an
end in itself. Its dangers lay in
the incompleteness of its view,
of its action, and in the self-
satisfaction and false-security it
tended to promote.
Locarno and Canadian reli-
ance on the United States
(under which Canada virtually
embraced the Monroe Doc-
trine) seemed the chief enemies
to effective British Common-
wealth consultation and co-
operation in defence before
1939. Undoubtedly, if “Labor”
had been in office at that period
in Australia it would have added
a similar regional concentration
in the Pacific, and would have
pressed for the separation of
the Pacific from those parts of
the British Commonwealth situ-
ated in Europe.
As it was, the non-Labor
Government was a lone, though
self-effacing, voice for Empire-
security in those days.
“Labor’s” isolationist attitude
was heightened rather than
otherwise by the war, and there
was a disposition to talk of the
Pacific war as if it were some-
thing separate from the war in
the Middle East and Europe.
After the war the Australian
Government pressed the idea of
regionalism hard, side by side
with its claim for special con-
sideration for Australia as an
important member of U.N.O.
and its other claim that, in the
affairs of the British Common-
wealth, Australia should have
primacy in the Pacific. Some of
these ideas had been given sub-
stance in the setting-up of
Anzus as a corollary to Nato.
Anzus was extolled as an
achievement for Australian
security, yet its sponsors would
not suggest that it is sufficient
in itself. Such regional pacts
were methods, and not aims.
The aim was security itself;
and, considering the British
Commonwealth as a whole, its
needs were world-wide, not
regional, security, because it was
a world-wide Commonwealth
facing a world-wide threat.
If by closer co-operation with
the United States security was
broadened to be part of the
security of a more extensive
grouping of nations the argu-
ment had exactly the same
force. He doubted if the British
Commonwealth nations would
ever find security in regionalism.
They did not form a region in
a strategic sense; only by work-
ing for world-wide security
could they find a common pur-
pose and a common reason for
their existence.
In the other great field-
economic interest much the
same applied. The Common-
wealth countries might find
common economic interests as a
defensive group, though parts
of the Commonwealth were not
complementary to each other in
the same degree as they once
were. Indeed, in some degree,
they were rivals to one another.
However, again in this field,
they were likely to find a
• stronger common purpose in an
attempt to make a positive con-
tribution as a Commonwealth
for shaping world conditions.
The Commonwealth might con-
tinue to meet the need for dis-
cussion and adjustment of
numerous domestic problems of
industry and commerce inside
the Commonwealth with good-
will and friendliness, but he
doubted whether it would con-
tinue to provide justification for
its continued existence in the
provision of this facility.
Its major purpose was more
likely to be found, and the hope
of continuing association of its
members more likely to be
achieved, if it could work as a
group to bring change in the
world economic order. What
was done in economic affairs
had its direct bearing on the
strength and influence of the
British Commonwealth and its
cohesion. It did matter to Aus-
tralia what happened to the
industry and trade of the United
Kingdom, and it did matter to
the U.K. what happened to the
trade and industry of Australia.
And it mattered to the whole
British Commonwealth what
happened to the trade of all its
components.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
dsuorvAx
rnm
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
CT!AFi OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
letterpress and offset printers
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD’ (Vice-Chairman).
STHUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Man g
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
Flemington is looking at its
best for Saturday’s opening of
the V.R.C.’s autumn carnival,
when the Royal party will attend.
To celebrate the occasion the
head body of racing in Victoria
has arranged the best possible
programme; it will bring to-
gether the best racing talent of
all ages in Australia, the only
notable absentee being Carioca,
who didn’t regain best form
when recently placed in training.
The V.R.C.’s £10,500 Queen
Elizabeth Stakes was to have
been Carioca’s chief mission. In
his absence Cromis, Melbourne’s
best three - year - old, and
Hydrogen, Australia’s leading
stakes-winner, are expected to
have most to do with the finish.
The Sires’ Produce Stakes, the
Newmarket and the Duke of
Edinburgh Australian Cup will
also be staged.
Tarien, engaged in the New-
market, and one of the popular
fancies, started favorite for this
V.R.C. sprint last autumn, but
she was no match for another
Randwick-trained mare. Cul-
tured, who cleared out with the
race up the straight six, starting
at the forlorn odds of 25 to 1.
Tarien ran second, with Winlake
third.
Bernborough was the shortest-
priced favorite in Newmarket
Mstory. He went to the post at
9io 4 on in 1946, and with 9.13
won in good style. Ajax, in 1938,
was another odds-on winner. On
latest Melbourne form it serins
that a well-fancied runner will
again prove successful.
Sydney sprinter Birdwood
might follow up his Oakleigh
Plate victory by taking the New-
market, from Sir Isfahan and
Tarien.
• • • •
One way not to pick the
winner of the Australian Cup is
to back the favorite! At least
that has been the experience of
punters in most contests since
the long-distance handicap (now
run at 2 miles li furlong, and
formerly at 2\ miles) has been
programmed, from the early
’sixties. Lightly-weighted horses
have made it tough for those
near, or at, top of the weights.
Arbroath landed both the
V.R.C. St. Leger and the Aus-
tralian Cup last March, going to
the post at 7 to 1 for the latter
event. The previous year Murray
Glen won the Cup at 20 to 1;
other “roughies” in recent years
have included Spectre (33’s),
Indignity (25’s), Mutable (33’s)
and Madstar (25’s). This year
it might be different.
Melbourne Cup winner
Wodalla might win the Duke
of Edinburgh Australian Cup,
from Sunish and Royal Radiant.
With the crack two-year-old of
the season, Indian Empire, in the
line-up Sydney should lift the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
though Melbourne is expected
to make it interesting with Star
of Stars, Spritsail and others.
Indian Empire pipved himself
the best two-year-old when he
easily beat Melbourne’s top-
ranker, Spritsail, and Clear
Springs in the Merson Cooper
Stakes at Caulfield on Saturday.
Australia’s leading betting-stables
clashed in that race, and resulted
in Sydney backers of Indian
Empire securing a much better
starting-price than was expected.
Had the race been decided in
Sydney, Indian Empire would
have been at a cramped price.
Clear Springs was backed from
eights to 9 to 2.
Three favorites were successful
at Caulfield, while Indian Empire
was second favorite at 6 to 4.
The other two winners. Tri-
clinium and Sir Isfahan, each
started at 6 to 1, so punters were
in good picking form. Sydney
visitors profited by the wins of
Gallant Archer, Indian Empire
and Triclinium.
• • • •
Progeny of famous race-
mares seldom follow in their
footsteps, maybe because in
some instances the dams stayed
overlong on the turf, Adelaide
filly Waltzing Lady, a daughter
of Waltzing Lily, is, however,
apparently an exception. The
V.R.C. Oaks winner landed a
plunge in the Caulfield Stanley
Plate, for which she started
favorite at 5 to 2, and beat
Fordell and Tommy’s Gift. It
stamped the filly as a three-year-
old of real class, as she had to
overcome difficulties. In the
early part she was 14th, and she
had to be taken right round the
field to get to the lead, yet she
won comfortably. Waltzing
Lily’s wins included the V.R.C.
Standish Handicap and New-
market (1933), the 1934 Caulfield
Futurity Stakes and w.f.a. con-
tests. She was bred in 1929 and
got by Beau Fils (imp.) from
Robecq by Grist. Waltzing
Lady’s sire, Masthead (imp.), is
by a Blue Peter stallion, and is
also the sire of Spritsail.
At Canterbury on Saturday six
of the eight winners started at
odds of less than 6 to 1, The
only outsider was Granita,
14 to 1, a member of Ted Hush’s
Randwick team. Delwood,
another member of the stable,
also scored. ,
Faridun, runaway winner of
the Canterbury Second Two-
year-old Maiden, and a colt with
a promising future, is related to
Kingsdale, winner of the 1943
A.J.C. Doncaster. Lysander, a
brother to Shannon, whose oldest
progeny are two-year-olds, is sire
of Faridun, a 575gns. yearling,
whose dam, Valley Star, was got
by Le Grand Due (imp.) from
La Vallee (a good galloper on
former A.R.C. tracks in Sydney),
by Andrea (imp.). Lysander
carried the .Hydrogen colors, and
his wins included City Tattersall’s
Gold Cup. Faridun was bred
by R. J. Brown, Angle Stud,
Dubbo (N.S.W,).
The Carbine blood is eagerly
sought by many owners when
yearlings are offered, as they
have a soft spot for the champion
of the 1890’s, who still is
regarded by many as the greatest
horse to have worn a bridle in
this part of the world. Then,
again, the Carbine blood has
proved itself in the racing records
of this country. An analysis of
pedigrees of many stayers will
show the name Carbine back in
the family lines. Two with this
famous blood in their make-up
scored in good style at Canter-
bury Happy Court and
Granita, in maiden two-year-old
company. Granita, a 400gns,
yearling, is by imported Nilo, a
son of Nearco, from Wee Did by
Brueghel (imp.). Back in the
pedigree figures Wallace, a noted
son of Carbine. Happy Court
is an Agincourt (imp.) filly from
Good Cheer by Double Remove
(imp;), and she also traces back
to Wallace.
• • • •
The Inter-Dominion trotting
championships now being run
at Wayville track, Adelaide, have
drawn together the best from all
States. In the first and second
heats Adelaide-owned Merchant
“You can't listen to this one, Walter —you're too young.”
(2 to 1) and Victorian Spark-
ling Max (5-to-4 on) were the
respective winners, but a rank
outsider, Victorian Wilbur’s
Hope (50 to 1), had an easy win
in the third heat. N.S.W.
champion. Ribands, second-
favorite in the second heat, ran
fourth. Once again he was slow
to get going and this cost him
any winning chance. He, how-
ever, ran the fastest time. The
championships will continue to-
night (Wednesday) and conclude
next Saturday night with the
£lO,OOO final, the 12 horses earn-
ing most points being eligible
for the final.
• * * •
Gold Scheme, a New Zealand
four-year-old gelding by Golden
Souvenir from Smiling Person-
ality, and winner of a number
of races this season, is shortly
expected in Sydney. He will be
prepared for the Sydney Cup,
in which he has 8.4, or 41b. more
than he carried to victory in
the New Zealand Cup (two
miles). His Sydney Cup pre-
paration will be supervised by
Maurice McCarten. Earldom
also is expected to return to con-
test the Cup, for which Carioca
is one of the early fancies, with
Gold Scheme equally popular.
Oldest progeny of English sire
Dogger Bank, a son of Fairway
(winner of £42,722 in stakes and
leading sire in England for four
seasons), are now two-year-olds,
and are excellent types. One of
them, Zoutman, was a recent
winner at Canterbury Park.
He is trained by Maurice
McCarten. Zoutman, whose dam
is a sister to Davey Jones, won
stylishly and should soon score
in better company. Dogger
Bank raced little in England, but
he won at a mile and a half,
beating the best horses, includ-
ing Black Tarquin, Flush Royal
and Royal Drake. Shortly after
his win he was secured at a high
figure for stud duties in New
Zealand
Trans Tasman, recent winner
of the colts’ division of a Maiden
Two-year-old at Randwick, is
raced and was bred by T. C.
Lowry, of Okawa Stud (N.Z.).
The solidly-built youngster
showed quick improvement
on his prior run, but the
company was much weaker.
The colt is by Faux Tirage
(imp.) from Gold Flight
by Nigger Minstrel (who raced
at Randwick several seasons ago)
from Francolin by Paper Money
(imp.). Gold Flight won seven
races, including the Oamaru
Cup, and is the dam of four
winners, all her progeny to race.
Trans Tasman is related to Fair
Trial, champion sire of England
in 1950.
••' • •
“P.O.M C.”: Jack O’Sullivan’s
recent successes (noted this page)
recall that at the time he won the
Melbourne Cup on Hall Mark he
was the bright student in the
apprentices’ school at Randwick.
Maurice McCarten (then a top
jockey) had told the boys in a
lecture that year that any lad
lucky enough to get a good
mount in an important race
should pick an experienced rider
and closely follow him through
the field, thereby letting the
veteran assure him a reasonably
clear passage throughout.
O’Sullivan saw no reason for
looking beyond McCarten as his
guide, and, on Hall Mark, he
stuck to the master (on Gaine
Carrington) like glue, duly land-
ing the bacon, while Mac.
finished third. Hall Mark re-
opened a split heel in this race,
leaving a trail of blood down the
running; his was probably the
bravest effort for a three-year-old
in the long history of the Cup.
* * *
The Lithgow Flash can still
flash along. On Saturday, in
the N.S.W. 220yds. champion-
ship, Marjorie Jackson beat
world-record time, clocking
24sec., two-tenths better than
Hollander Fanny Blankers-
Koen’s time. It was disallowed
because of “wind-assistance.”
She has another chance to break
the record in the Australian
championships in Perth next
week. The Dutchwoman’s
broad-jump record, however,
went west at the weekend; in
N.Z. a local lassie, Yvette
Williams, leapt a further l^in.
to 20ft. 7iin.
* * *
Jon Henricks on Saturday
night at Melbourne Olympic
Pool retained his Australian
220yds. swimming title. Though
not apparently extended he re-
corded 2min. 9.95ec,, new Vic-
torian time and only o.9sec. out-
side his own Australian record.
Also decided on Saturday night
was the national 110yds. back-
stroke event. Winner was Queens-
lander Cyrus Weld, who nar-
rowly defeated title-holder Bob
Barry (N.S.W.); time, Imin.
B.3sec. In the recent Queens-
land championships the versa-
tile Weld won eight titles, in-
cluding all the main freestyle
races.
* * »
Most controversial cricket
dropping since the English selec-
tors left Hutton out of the third
Test against Australia in 1948
Lindwall’s omission from the
N.S.W. side which lately played
S.A. It seems ungrateful, con-
sidering Lindwall’s past great
services to the State’s cricket,
especially so because it would
have been his last game for
N.S.W. before playing for
Queensland. His figures have
been reasonably good, though,
except for one or two perform-
ances, they’ve not been the
devastating figures we’ve been
used to the champion getting.
Still, the selectors are a know-
ledgeable bunch; and their de-
cision came only after lengthy
deliberation.
• • • t
Reputation alone should not
keep anyone in. And it has at
times been truly said that State
and Test selectors hang-on to
old hands long after they’ve had
their day, to the discouragement
of up-and-coming players. This,
of course, doesn’t apply to Lind-
wall, who, though getting on (for
a fast-bowler), is far from
finished. Next season he’ll almost
certainly still be leading Aus-
tralia’s Test attack.
The S.A.-v.-Queensland Shield
match in Brisbane was reduced
by rain to the last two days’ play
only. The Northerners, after dis-
missing S.A. for 75, seemed likely
to win outright. They failed,
however: Queensland on the
first innings.
Queensland skipper Ken
Archer’s captaincy in the match
was criticised ; but, even had he
done exactly what the experts
told him later he should have
done (i.e., closed as soon as
possible on the Monday after-
noon), S.A., subsequently batting
on a much slower wicket, would
hardly have crashed so
disastrously a second time.
More justifiable censure, in this
case on both skippers, was on
their Saturday-morning decision
to abandon play without a
further inspection; Brisbane
ground’s curator maintains that
the game could easily have
begun after lunch.
• • • •
South Australia’s 3 for 0 at
the start of its first innings against
Queensland recalls that in the
first Test against Brown’s 1950-51
England side, also played in
Brisbane, the scoreboard showed
3 for 0 at the start of Aus-
tralia’s second innings. The
wicket then, too, was a ‘‘sticky.”
Moroney went first (giving him
a “pair”), l.b.w. to Bailey, who
then, fielding at first-slip, caught
Morris and Loxton off successive
balls from Bedser. Australia, of
course, went on to win that Test
—Australia, 228 and 7-32,
closed; England, 68 and 122.
• • • •
“Bosey”: The S.A. Cricket
Association, at present conduct-
ing a campaign against “nega-
tive” cricket, recently awarded a
C-grade team an outright victory
because its opponents had failed
to start on time on both days of
the match. Glenelg were the
winners. University the dilatory
ones. At stumps on the second
day Glenelg, to win outright,
had needed only two runs with
three wickets in hand.


m
/
1
THE
GOOD
COMPANIONS
ini
MOTOR
ROTO
KOI' 5
Hi** 1 *
|ECO*
A COMPLETE
RANGE OF AUTO-
MOTIVE OILS AND
GREASES . . .
equally suitable
for new and oLJ
engines.
For top-up or oil change
choose ENERGOL, the
‘Good Companion ’ of C.O.R
MOTOR SPIRIT at , . . .
AN
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE-STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
CI72/6933
attraction, viewed in a certain
temperamental light. It was
difficult to know where calcu-
lated craftsmanship ended,
where the dark joy in confes-
sion began. He must be careful,
careful....
'T'HERE was a knock at the
door. He was annoyed.
“Doug?” he asked, frown-
ing.
She shook her head: “No.
Doug wouldn’t come back to-
night. It’s Stonewall. Listen!
Doesn’t he knock like a police-
man?”
The knocking was repeated,
loudly.
“Aren’t you going to answer
it?”
“Of course.” She rose neatly,
like a cat. “Coming, Stone-
wall ! ”
“No, I won’t have a drink,”
the inspector said, walking into
the room.
“But, Stonewall”
“Damn you, Jul, I said no!”
he snapped, and she was silent.
She looked at him under her
eyelashes. Alex stared at him
stolidly.
The tall grey policeman
looked taller and greyer than
ever, in a grey raglan coat, hang-
ing far below his knees and a
high-crowned grey-felt hat. He
walked across the room, his
hands in overcoat pockets. He
didn’t trouble to remove his hat.
His grey eyes swept over Alex,
passed to the great glass win-
dows, studied the darkened har-
bor for a moment, then con-
tinued their search; cocktail-
cabinet, bookcases, lounge,
chairs, table, radiogram...
They dwelt thoughtfully on the
carpet, deep-blue, thick...
“Did you drop sixpence?”
Juliette asked, determinedly im-
pudent ; but the smile faltered.
“How long have you been
here?” he demanded.
“Oh, about half an hour,
I suppose. Maybe three-
quarters ...”
“Don’t suppose. What time
was it when you came in?”
She flushed; “Really, Stone-
wall, there’s no need t 0...”
The inspector turned to Alex:
“What time do you say it was?”
He stiffened: “It was exactly
ten-thirty-five by my watch
when we got out of the taxi. I
looked, because I wondered how
long the driver took,” The
inspector nodded: “And how
long did he take?”
Alex shrugged, but he could
not quite manage the air of
unconcern; the steady, grey
eyes, shining coldly between
contracted lids, made him un-
comfortable. “A little less than
eighteen minutes,” he said
sulkily.
“So you left the Shashlik
Restaurant at ten minutes past
ten, or thereabouts,” the inspec-
tor said casually.
Juliette stamped her foot,
“This is over the fence!” she
said furiously. “I don’t mind
a certain amount of —of chaper-
oning, but when it comes to
checking-up on where I go —it’s,
it’s indecent. Stonewall, and I
won’t have it! I won’t!”
The inspector heard her out,
his head cocked a little to one
side, as though he were listen-
ing for something else. “You’re
very cohceited,” he said mildly.
“I’m asking these questions
officially. . It’s a murder I’m
interested in.”
“Oh.”
“Yes. A man was murdered
at the Shashlik Restaurant to-
night. Now,” his voice har-
dened, “I don’t want any more
nonsense from you, Juliette. Just
answer questions. So it was
about ten minutes past ten when
you left the restaurant?” The
question was directed at Alex.
“When was this man killed?”
Alex asked quickly.
“You answer my questions,”
the inspector said, smiling
grimly; but Alex was thinking
quickly, furiously. Stanislaw;
the big man had been at the
restaurant, in the backyard, he
had seen him. The police, per-
haps, knew nothing about
Stanislaw, nothing. The mur-
derer might not be Stanislaw, of
course; a murderer could be
anyone.
But he had a picture of two
men in that restaurant —six
months ago, a year? Two men,
himself and Stanislaw, ordering
a meal. The cheap dishes, borsch
and piroshkee. Stanislaw care-
fully wrapping the piroshkee he
couldn’t eat in a piece of paper
—that was right, he asked the
waitress, the girl from Soviet
Russia, for paper—wrapping it
up to take home and eat later.
A good, frugal Polish custom.
But there had been laughter,
trouble... He came back to
the present, and the inspector’s
question, with a start.
“Oh, I wouldn’t say that,” he
said absently. “Take off or add
a bit either way—a few minutes.
That was the time I calculated
from when I caught the taxi.
But we were talking for a time
in the corridor,...”
“For how long?” the inspec-
tor pressed him. But he was
following his own thoughts, and
answered the questions casually.
There had been a flurry in his
mind for a moment, a stab of
irrational dread, but that had
passed. He had reviewed his
position with lightning calm. He
was safe. The inspector was
bluffing with his five minutes
and four minutes and fractions
of minutes. The girl had been
with him all the time.
There was only that half-
minute, no more, in the corri-
dor, when he had waited for
her. This was hardly time to
murder a man, assuming, and he
felt he was right, that the man
was the proprietor. The tubby
little White Russian from Har-
bin would be in his office at that
hour, almost certainly; or in the
kitchen. Either was five minutes
at least from that corridor. And,
supposing he had been able to
do it, how about his clothes?
The weapon....
6 6TX7AS it Basil Nikolae-
vitch?” he asked
casually.
. The inspector looked at him
intently; “That was the mur-
dered man’s name, yes, part of
it. The surname” —he fished in
a pocket, stared at a piece of
paper ; bluff, thought Alex, smil-
ing, the old, old box of tricks —
“B-a-e-k-o-s-s-o-v. Know him,
eh?” His grey eyes glinted at
Alex over the scrap of paper,
held high, as though he were a
public-speaker consulting his
notes.
Alex felt an affection for him,
the old kinship. It was like
meeting an adult in a world of
children, rich, spoilt children,
like Juliette, and the others, who
knew nothing about the real
nature of men, the things they
will do. He knew, though, this
old dog of an inspector. That
long nose of his had poked into
some fine human garbage and
knew the stench of human
nature. Ho-ho, you old con-
spirator, you can’t trick me!
He was bubbling over with
high spirits, aware of Juliette’s
grave hazel eyes watching him,
of the inspector’s shrewd grey
eyes, waiting. He was aware of
something patient, expectant, in
the inspector’s manner. He
wasn’t trying to pin him down,
to bludgeon him, any more. He
was waiting. There was that
understanding between them, the
fellowship of the prison-cells
and the graveyard....
Even then he paused and
gave thought to what he was
about to do. He was safe. No
one could trap him, not in this
country. Stanislaw might be
innocent, or he might be guilty,
and either way he didn’t care
very much. But if Stanislaw
was guilty, and he kept silent,
there was a chance he might
escape, A quarrel in a restaurant
a long time ago, who would con-
nect that with Stanislaw? Per-
haps no one had seen Stanislaw.
He was a stranger in Sydney
and would soon be gone back to
the camp and the cold and the
communal living...
Why not let him go?
Well, he would let him go if
it suited him. Moral questions
didn’t worry him one way or
the other. His duty to society,
his duty to Stanislaw, the com-
rade of his youth, the man who
had saved his life, the faithful
dog. No. He wouldn’t deceive
himself by pretending. Neverthe-
less, he lingered over the picture
of Stanislaw, the faithful dog.
But all this was merely
aesthetic appreciation, a tickling
of the palate. He knew what he
was going to do, and nothing
could stop him. He, the other
part of his mind, could only
observe and take notes. Theorise.
Praise or condemn, it made no
difference.
He began to speak, gravely,
weighing his words. This was
important; official. He spoke
reluctantly but firmly. A sense
of justice driving him to a
disagreeable, a sad, necessity.
He knew the man Stanislaw. No,
he didn’t know if he had a his-
tory of violence, but it was
possible. He had had a bad
time. He .knew he had a quarrel
with the proprietor of the Shash-
lik ; had threatened him. He
had seen him there, acting sus-
piciously, tonight. His address
was a waterside hotel —he gave
the name —Room 67. Stanislaw,
if he knew his habits, would
probably be asleep. Was it a
stabbing?
He nodded sorrowfully. Yes,
Stanislaw had a knife.
It was a polished perform-
ance, he could say that, and
the beautiful part, it was almost
entirely the truth.
But what he hadn’t anticipated
was the almost physical pleasure.
It was natural, he supposed. It
was part of the physics of the
soul, the necessary movement
of forces dammed up, frustrated.
A swing of the pendulum, full
cycle, from the first betrayal.
Treachery was a reflex of his
character, so why deny it?
There was a sombre satisfaction
in accepting this fact about him-
self, using it.
Because it was useful. Now,
for insf&nce, a few words about
Stanislaw in the inspector’s
hairy ear were saving him a lot
of bother, a weariness of talk-
ing, at a time when he had other
plans. It was a cutting-free
from old ties, dramatised; the
new life into which he was
climbing had no place for
Stanislaw, and to get there un-
scathed he would need to be
ruthless, cunning—and alone.
He glanced gravely at Juliette,
his face a mask of sorrow and
duty. She was not an encum-
brance. She was the top rung
of the ladder, as Stanislaw, poor
Stanislaw, was the first and
lowest.
It was part of his luck. Old
races made human sacrifices to
bring good luck to houses and
bridges. He was building a
house, a bridge between two
existences, and it needed to be
strong. The fact that he was
fond of Stanislaw made it
better ; gave the act something of
renunciation, of religious exalta-
tion.
“Good.” The inspector said
it sharply, with his air of shut-
ting a book. “I’ll use the phone,
Juliette, I think,”
He went into the next room,
shutting the door behind him.
They could hear him talking,
without being able to distinguish
the words. They waited.
HALF an hour later the in-
spector came back. “Your
story checks,” he said quietly,
almost bitterly. Alex nodded.
The inspector looked at his
watch: “Can I give you a lift?”
Alex shook his head, smiling
faintly.
They stared at each other for
a moment: the girl glanced
quickly from one to the other.
“Well,” the inspector said at
last, heavily, “we’ll want a
statement from you. Tomorrow
at ten, Juliette will tell you
where to come.” Without say-
ing good-night he turned to go,
letting himself out. He looked
old. Juliette stared at the floor.
To put the seal on his triumph,
as the door clicked shut, the
Pole reached out for the girl.
She came dreamily, inevitably.
(i Continued on page 34)


Industrial
Enterprise
*
illl
T7~-""—<
cr
When this Bank was founded, there were
fewer than 100 manufacturing establish-
ments in Australia, 75 of these were mills
and the others mainly small workshops,
some of which developed and are now
among the largest factories in Australia.
To-day, there are over 45,000 factories in
the Commonwealth.
The present offers opportunities
no less than the past
We
f e are proud of the part we
have played, since the early days,
in aiding- enterprises that have added
to the wealth and strength of the
Nation.
To-day, we offer a complete and
modern banking service to aid in the
further development of progressive
undertakings, 'both large and small.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
tm
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Jf/e ALL-BRITISH
cyrus MU'DMiun
(anway
gtMjqrt
£
From
25/-
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & GUTO, LONDON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BERLIN CONFERENCE
It is worth noting as a
comment on democracy and
Communism that, whereas every
Russian newspaper probably
agrees with the “Izvestia” remark
included in the following selec-
tion of Press views on the Berlin
Conference, there is as much
difference of opinion as there is
accord in the quotes from the
British and U.S. Press.
« * ♦
London “Economist”: “There
is only one concession to the
Russian position that it is in their
[the West’s] power to make
that is, to abandon their inten-
tion of rearming Western
Germany. And this is a major
concession, which could only be
made if the entire concept of
Soviet policy, of the Iron Curtain
and of the armed occupation of
Eastern Europe were abandoned.
“The Russians, on the other
hand, have half of Europe in
which to make or to offer con-
cessions, none of which would
be sufficient to change the need
for rearming Western Germany,
but any one of which might
cause new heart-searching
among the Western Powers. In
other words, Russia, if she
wishes, has room to manoeuvre
on minor points; the West has
practically none.
“Briefly, they [the West] want
a peace treaty which unites
Germany ; the peace treaty must
be negotiated with the Govern-
ment of a united Germany ; and,
as M. Bidault put it, from a
democratic point of view it seems
obvious that it is elections which
create Governments and not
Governments which create
dectiom
elections.
Russm on the other hand
still wishes the peace treaty to be
negotiated with a provisional all-
German Government formed
from the existing Western and
Eastern regimes in Germany. It
London “Daily Mail”
THE FIFTH MAN
so happens that the Western
Powers think that their cause
would prosper in free elections
throughout Germany today,
while Mr. Molotov knows that
the Russian cause would fail.”
* * ~
“U Nuovo Corriere della Sera"
{Milan): “The real Russian aim
is to stop German rearmament,
keep Germany impotent in
Central Europe to be nibbled
up gradually by Communism,
isolate the United States from
its European allies and especially
from France, get Communist
China into the company of the
Great Powers and revive the
alliance with France.”
♦ * ♦
“New Statesman”: “There
have always been two Western
views about the purpose of the
Berlin Conference. U.S.
Congress, Dr. Adenauer, most
British Tories, together with the
extreme Right of the [British]
Labor party, regard it as an
obstacle to German rearmament
which must be surmounted as
quickly as possible. For these
people, Berlin is intended as a
‘meet-and-break’ occasion; the
sooner it is over the better.
Hence, no doubt, Mr. Dulles’s
almost impatient acceptance of
the Soviet agenda.
“On the other side stand Sir
Winston Churchill, supported on
this by most of the Labor party
and by the prayers of a vast
majority of ordinary citizens.
They regard Berlin as an
occasion for reaching agreement.
In their view, the Foreign
Ministers should be trading
horses, not merely retiring by the
shortest route to previously-
prepared positions.”
* * •
London “Economist ”: “It is
no light matter to recommend
scepticism about any conference
with the Russians. There are the
most pressing political, financial
and simple human motives for
wishing that it should bring, as
Sir Winston might say, some
easement. The instinct of free
and peaceful men is to relax into
normality, to have done with
tension, high taxation and a huge
military effort. But it is precisely
this instinct that is likely to
mislead them about the real
prospects in Berlin.
“Since the Russans’ basic
objective in Berlin is to disin-
tegrate the unity of the West, the
first hints of any new offers are
more likely to be dropped in the
private ears of individual
Western delegates than made
openly across the conference
table. And something may be
found to appeal to the palate
of each of the three Western
partners. In Britain, a strong
and by no means wholly Left-
wing lobby might be mustered
to welcome a suggestion that con-
cessions in Europe could lead
to better trading relations with
China. For a good many
Americans, a hint that a modest
reduction of United States armed
strength in Europe would
facilitate a genuine settlement in
Korea might have considerable
attractions. France, however, is
the most obvious customer for a
horse-trade of this kind; how
many people in Paris would
refuse to look twice at an offer to
call off the war in Indo-Chjna in
return for the abandonment or
emasculation of the European
Defence Community?”
* * *
Anne O'Hare McCormick in
‘‘N. Y. Times” ; “Apparently the
Russians think time operates in
their favor. Their approach to
this conference indicates that
their aim is to delay or prevent
decisions in the West. In one
respect at least the West is con-
vinced that time is their ally. It
believes that Russia cannot digest
her conquests and that the
Russian people, whose dissatis-
faction has already won some
amelioration of living conditions,
will not for ever endure the strait-
jacket imposed on them by the
Soviet system.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “At this
moment the will to peace, all
over the world, is stronger than
it has been at any time since the
East and the West began to drift
apart after the inconclusive con-
ference of 1947. If this is indeed
the century of the common man,
and if the common man prefers
comfort and a whole skin to
hardships and war, then it may
be that the conference is the out-
come of a deep movement on
which politicians have a mere
surface existence. It is part of
Sir Winston’s greatness that he
recognised this last spring.
“The moment is favorable
also because a rough balance
exists between the two sides. It
has taken the West a long time
to grasp that power politics
really means politics backed by
power. But the lesson has been
learnt, and under American
leadership the West is now
sufficently strong to make threats
of war an impossibility for the
Russians.
“Even so, it iS doubtful
whether the German problem
can be solved. In the back-
ground, a presence felt though
physically absent, will stand Dr.
Adenauer, the West German
Chancellor. His ambition is
clear; to unite Germany, as the
official phrase has it, ‘in peace
and freedom.’ Now if Germany
is united it will side with the
West; after all that the Russian
zone has suffered under the
Russian occupation there cannot
be the slightest doubt of that.”
♦ * *
C. L. Sulzberger in “ N. Y.
Times”: “He [Molotov] has
obtained this conference at a
moment when France has not
yet resolved diplomatic differ-
ences with her allies—the United
States above all; when West
Germany blames the French for
everything delaying Europe’s
progress.
“This favors the manoeuvring
position of the shrewd Molotov.
He not only wants to get E.D.C.
killed at Berlin ; he hopes to have
Washington and Bonn blame
Paris for this. The more the
United States is irked with
France, the more that country
will be psychologically impelled
toward Russia.
“And Chancellor Adenauer
has staked his entire political
future on the Defence Com-
munity’s success. If it dies his
political power may wane. That
would be a factor helping
Moscow’s project for a reunified
but neutralised Germany, severed
from Western ties and eventually
ready to be gobbled by the East
—with the rest of Europe.”
* * *
Moscow “Izvestia”: “The
Adenauer clique in its extreme
impudence is losing all contact
with reality. What sort of
guarantee do the Western Powers
envisage to ensure that, as a
result of all-German elections
held under foreign control,
power in Germany will not be
taken over by persons similar to
the present Bundestag deputies or
the reactionary politicians who
ruled the roost in the Reichstag
on the eve of the 1933 Fascist
coup. The democratic principles
of Potsdam cannot be so easily
buried as some Western
diplomats think.”
* * ♦
“N. Y. Times” editorial: “The
dramatic feature of the opening
session was the demonstration of
Western unity forcefully pre-
sented by Bidault and ably
seconded by Eden. M. Bidault,
in welcome contrast to France’s
often uncertain voice, served
notice on the Soviets that peace
cannot be attained by attempting
to divide the West or by bargain-
ing for spheres of influence. He
told Mr. Molotov that the West,
including France, stood firmly
by the two enterprises which
Moscow seeks to wreck —the
North Atlantic Alliance and the
European Defence Community.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” cor-
respondent : “There is a new
respect for France's role in
Europe. American corres-
pondents in Berlin have
dramatised the conference as an
attempt by Russia to detach
France from the Western
Alliance. The staunch role of
M. Bidault has at once surprised
and delighted American opinion.
In their irritation at French
policy in the past, many Ameri-
cans forgot the essential value of
France in the defence of Europe.
They were shocked into a new
awaredness of this fact by the
sudden discovery that the
Kremlin had its own plans for
France.”
* * ♦
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
conference will not be able ro
broach its main business —the
future of Germany—until the


Fi
W
u
■t
v"
r
uyiilv
PottßefaJu
t V&&xMl Q asM
TWO FORWARD SPEEDS AND INSTANT REVERSE
Double Cone Clutch Drive, right or left operation.
Low weight 81bs. 1 Oozs.
Can be supplied aa head only for attachment
to existing drive, or complete with engine ap
a trolley mounted unit.
\
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
10-14 YOUNG STREET, NEAR CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 509. Phone: BU 509|
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lifmore, Wagga and Hay.
troublesome item about a five-
Power meeting is cleared away.
Mr. Molotov deliberately put
talks with China first because this
proposal is objectionable to the
United States, since it would
elevate Communist China to the
status of a Great Power.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”
editorial comment: “What Mr.
Molotov has said so far seems
to be a rambling repetition of
what his Government has said
many times before. It amounts
to a condemnation of the Euro-
pean Defence Community, a
resolute refusal to allow the
rearmament of Germany except
under Russian supervision (be-
cause it is ‘militarism’ if
Germany is rearmed in any other
way), and a request for reunifica-
tion of Germany in accordance
with the Yalta and Potsdam
agreements. Unless Mr. Molotov
is willing to adopt a different
approach, accepting the North
Atlantic Treaty as a reasonable
measure of self-defence within
the United Nations Charter,
there can be no general agree-
ment with him.”
* * *
David Lawrence, editor, “U.S.
News and World Report” : “We
talked for months and months
at Panmunjom—and then laid
down our arms, credulously
hoping it would mean an agree-
ment later to unify Korea and
secure the withdrawal of Chinese
Communist armies from Korean
territory.
“We have been talking ever
since the truce was signed only
about the time and place and the
membership of the proposed
peace conference. Concurrently,
the Communists have been build-
ing new airfields in North Korea
and bringing in scores of
Russian-type jet planes to
threaten our troops and terrorise
the Korean people. This build-
up is, of-course, a violation of
the armistice terms, but we still
talk at Panmunjom.
“We have agreed, moreover,
to talk about European problems
at a four-Power conference of
Foreign Ministers at Berlin.
We have had only 289 ‘talks’ in
the last few years with the
Soviets on the Austrian problem.
“Morality in diplomacy is at
a low ebb. Dishonesty and
hypocrisy are condoned. The
illusion seems to be that there
is some magic way by which
those who tell falsehoods to the
world can be suddenly converted
to truth-telling and sincerity
merely by listening to the
eloquent words of an Old World
statesman.
“Deals with gangsters never
work out. Neither Mr. Churchill
nor anyone else can negotiate an
agreement with Soviet Russia
today that would be worth the
paper it is written on. Until
there is a free Government in
Russia, there can be no durable
peace.”
The Winston Touch
Just before Christmas Sir
Winston Churchill answered a
spate of speculation about his
retirement by asserting that, so
long as his health and strength
were up to the duties of Prime
Ministership, he would continue
to discharge the task.
Reference to the Commons
debates since the British Parlia-
ment opened after the Christmas
recess indicate that the P.M, is
in admirable form and certainly
deserving of the nice little
tribute accorded him by the
Parliamentary correspondent of
“Manchester Guardian”:,
“Sir Winston entered the
chamber looking serene and
carrying his hand-microphone
and papers. Certainly, he moved
to his place along the Treasury-
bench with none of the old
masterful stride, but there is
clearly no physical reason why
he should put off his harness at
this moment, while his treatment
of questions demonstrated that,
as they say in Lancashire, he
has all his chairs at home, and
indeed more than all, as Mr.
Woodrow Wyatt, who has a
scalding manner of addressing
him, found out,
“Mr. Wyatt has the rhetorical
equivalent of the kick of a
vicious horse and he mostly
London “Daily Express”
“WHY DON'T YOU MAKE ROOM FOR SOMEONE
BIGGER?”
reserves it, for some reason, for
the Prime Minister. He is dark
and menacing when addressing
Sir Winston and he told him
that we had accepted the Belgian
rifle in preference to the new
British rifle because the Prime
Minister had been too weak to
stand up to the Americans for
something he knew was right.
“Sir Winston, who did a
respectable amount of kicking
on his own account when he was
as young as Mr. Wyatt, smilingly
answered that it was a matter of
complete indifference to him
whether Mr. Wyatt attributed
his decision to [weakness or
wisdom.
“Mr. Shinwell, wbo is not
always lusting like Mr. Wyatt
to aim a knock-out blow at the
Prime Minister, quietly recalled
that British and Commonwealth
military-experts had always
insisted that the British rifle is
superior to either the Belgian
or the American. Sir Winston’s
reply was superb: T am not
aware of the date the right
honorable gentleman has in
mind, but these events are con-
tinually moving forward.’
“What did it mean? Per-
plexed furrows appeared in Mr.
Shinwell’s brow. He might have
asked with Mr. Morrison on a
famous occasion; ‘What can
you do with the man?’ Why
should a Prime Minister, who
can answer with such solemnity
questions he has not been asked,
ever resign?”
Gibraltar
No Russian diplomat could
have uttered a more emphatic
“No” than the unanimous reply
of the British Press, including
all political shades, to Spanish
agitation for the return of
Gibraltar.
There is, however, some dif-
ference as to the motives behind
the Spanish demands. London
“Spectator” writes it off to
“Spanish pride”; London
“Daily Telegraph” describes it
as an “adventure without tears,
a synthetic substitute for aggres-
sion” ; London “Time and Tide”
notes that, when a man comes
suddenly into money, “he may
be inclined to throw his weight
about in a manner which sur-
prises his friends. Hardly has
the agreement between Spain
and the United States been
signed than General Franco gives
every indication that the dollars
which he is receiving have gone
to his head.”
Most commentators, however,
would agree with the London
“Times” Gibraltar correspon-
dent, who remarks: : “ft is per-
haps strange to find a leader as
astute as General Franco spon-
soring a policy so unrealistic and
founded largely on emotion.”
Strange it may be, consider-
ing Spain’s profitable trade-
relations with Britain and
Franco’s usually-smart handling
of his country’s foreign policy,
and a possible explanation is
advanced in a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph” from Com-
mander W. F. R. Segrave, Naval
Attache in Madrid from
1949-52;
“The Spanish Government’s
recently - concluded agreement
with the United States for the
use of naval- and air-bases in
exchange for considerable dollar
credits was a diplomatic triumph
for General Franco, and has
enhanced his prestige both at
home and abroad.
“Every improvement in
Franco’s position, particularly
abroad, is a source of anxiety to
the Falange—the old guard of
the Movimiento, and generally
unpopular in Spain—whose use-
fulness to the regime diminishes
in direct proportion to the
strength of Franco’s position.
“Hence the renewed agitation
for the return of Gibraltar and
acts of hooliganism inspired and
fostered by the Falangist party
to draw attention to themselves,
and to bolster-up their waning
power.
“Thanks to our own post-war
attitude towards Spain, which
under the Socialist Government
t was one of ill-informed criticism
and in one or two cases down-
right rudeness, it was hardly to
be expected that Franco would
immediately discourage these
outbursts, though more recent
reports do indicate that the
authorities have in fact made
some attempt to check the
rioters.
“During my three years in
Spain I developed a great affec-
tion for the people and, I hope,
acquired some understanding of
them. The recent incidents are
the work of an unpopular minor-
ity; and do not represent the
views of the majority. There is
still immense goodwill among
Spaniards of all classes to Great
Britain —Spain’s best customer.”
Dragnet Digest
The Way for Europe. —The
two paths, as seen by “N. Y.
Times,” along which Europe
must seek salvation: “One,
illustrated by the gains achieved
by a liberalised economy in
Germany, Belgium, to some ex-
tent in Britain, and elsewhere,
as compared with the stagnation
in France, points to a free eco-
nomy as superior to a controlled
one. The other, self-evident to
Europe’s own best minds, points
to unification as the only pos-
sible condition for the existence
of a continent which must unite
or perish. It is significant that
the idea of European unification
is strongest in the countries with
the freest economies, and that
it finds greatest resistance in
those countries which, in search-
ing for maximum security at
home and abroad, are in danger
of losing it in both fields.”
* « * «
Schuman Plan. —Making a
sober appraisal of Europe’s coal
and steel combine, London
“Economist” sees it “causing
more headaches than it is
curing.” That would seem to
apply to the steel half, since in
regard to coal it notes: “All
tariffs and quota restrictions on
the coal-steel trade between the
six members have now effec-
tively disappeared, and so have
the most flagrant cases of
discrimination in transport
charges. Following these steps
—and presumably as a conse-
quence of them —the exchange
of coal between the six has
shown a substantial increase; in
the first ten months of this year
the members exported to each
other nearly 20 per cent, more
than in the comparable period
of 1952, and the rise is con-
tinuing steadily. During the
same period French exports of
iron-ore to Belgium have gone
up by 30 per cent.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
New State for Queensland
The idea of splitting Queensland into
smaller States is nearly as old as the State
itself.
The movement for the separation of
North Queensland began in 1864, five
years after the Colony of Queensland had
been proclaimed. From an estimated
12.000 electors in boundaries of the pro-
posed new State the organisers collected
10.000 signatures on a petition seeking
separation. The petition was not granted.
Then, in the 1870’s, champions of new
States appeared in the Queensland Legis-
lative Assembly. They included John
Murtagh Macrossan, destined to play
possibly the most outstanding role in
Quensland’s history in the movement for
new States, and Arthur (later Sir Arthur)
Palmer. In 1871 Palmer introduced a
private member’s bill in the Queensland
Parliament seeking financial separation
of North Queensland, only to see it de-
feated. In 1875 Macrossan introduced
a similar measure, and that, too, was de-
feated.
A royal commission was appointed
in 1877 to investigate more equitable
ways of distributing the revenue of the
colony. In the same year a bill based on
the commission’s findings was introduced
into the legislature by Premier John
Douglas. The bill proposed to establish
four districts —Southern, Central, North-
ern, and Wide Bay and Burnett. After
advancing the bill to the committee
stages the Government withdrew it for
no particular reason.
The next major Parliamentary event
was in 1886, when Macrossan moved
“That in consequence of the increase of
population, the difficulty of administra-
tion, and other circumstances in the
northern portion of the colony, this House
is of opinion that the time has arrived
which was contemplated by his Grace the
Duke of Newcastle, her Majesty’s Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, in his
dispatches of August 18, 1859, and De-
cember 14, 1861, and therefore resolves
“You may find, as a beginner, that this helps you achieve the correct
intonation ."
that an humble address be presented to
her Majesty the Queen, praying that she
may be graciously pleased to cause the
northern portion of the colony to be
erected into a separate and independent
colony endowed with representative in-
stitutions.”
The dispatches of the Duke of New-
castle to which Macrossan referred re-
lated to the establishment of new States
in Queensland. The dispatch of August
18, 1859, for example, after dealing with
matters relevant to the separation of
Queensland (then Moreton Bay) from
N. S. Wales, said: “It is desired that the
separation should take place with no
further delay than may be actually
requisite for the completion of necessary
preliminaries. It will be desirable that
the Crown should possess the power of
subdividing further the territory now
erected into the Colony of Queensland
by detaching from it such northern por-
tions as may hereafter be found fit to be
erected into northern colonies.”
Macrossan, in moving his motion,
dealt in a telling manner with the need
for a State in North Queensland. His
speech may be read to advantage by every
person interested in decentralisation of
legislative power. Most certainly it
should be read by all members of the
present Queensland State Government,
some of whom have extraordinary ideas
on decentralisation.
Macrossan’s motion was defeated. One
of the arguments used by the then
Premier, Sir Samuel Griffith, in opposing
the motion was that “.... One of the first
things that would happen would be to
establish what is called up there ‘reliable
labor,’ ” He was referring to black or
kanaka labor. That argument, of course,
would be hopelessly out of character to-
day.
Undeterred by antipathy and hostility
towards the creation of a State in North
Queensland, Macrossan persisted with his
convictions, and on October 17, 1890,
he moved “That in the opinion of this
House territorial separation of the
northern portion of the colony is desirable
and would be for the best interests of the
whole of the colony.”
The motion as it stood was defeated,
but the protagonists for a North Queens-
land State did score a moral victory, as
the Premier, the Hon. Boyd Dunlop
Morehead, moved an amendment which
read: “That it would be to the advantage
of the colony to establish in the Southern,
Central and Northern Districts separate
legislative and executive authorities, with
full powers of legislation and govern-
ment, so far as regards matters of local
conpern; but that matters of general
concern, including the administration of
the public debt, should remain under
the control of one legislature and one
executive having jurisdiction over the
whole of the present Colony of Queens-
7JfW5J
ZHH.h/
kf
land until the establishment of an Aus-
tralian Federation, when their functions
should pass to the legislative and
executive authorities of the Federation.”
That amendment was carried, but its
terms were never implemented.
The need for a separate State in North
Queensland is far more evident today than
before the turn of the century. The
danger of centralisation is infinitely more
acute than in John Murtagh Macrossan’s
day. But, alas, the possibility of those
people in* North Queensland who are
urging for a separate State ever achieving
their aim is somewhat remote. The
Labor party committed by its platform
to gross centralisation of power, does not
believe in maintaining existing States, let
alone creating new ones, and must, while
Socialism is its objective, remain utterly
unsympathetic to any proposal to divide
legislative power. Nevertheless, the
“Lef’s take a short-cut through .”
people in North Queensland should not
be deterred. John Macrossan wasn’t
silenced by defeat. —D. J. K. (Q.)
Taxes
I suppose it’s only human nature for
people to object to paying taxes, but
those who demand the return of petrol-
and car-taxes to the States for the pur-
pose of building roads and so forth are
deceiving themselves.
They give the impression that the tax-
gatherers merely collect tribute to lock
it away in some local Fort Knox. Actu-
ally, of course, every penny collected is
balanced by an equal or greater amount
of expenditure. The inescapable fact
remains that if you want one item of
expenditure increased you must either
reduce something else in exact propor-
tion or increase intake by the same
amount. There’s no other way of doing
it.
I’m not discussing the rights or wrongs
of the matter, but simply asking for a
little more commonsense in dealing
with straightforward questions of addi-
tion and subtraction. — Transporticus
(Singapore).
Better Bread
The complaints about poor-quality
bread in N. S. Wales has resulted in
millers, bakers and growers seeking the
assistance of the Government in an effort
to establish the most suitable types of
wheat and the correct methods of treat-
ment from the time of sowing until the
bread is delivered to the consumer.
A flourmill in south-western N. S.
Wales has established its own cereal
laboratories. Its operations are divided
into three sections —chemical, physical
dough-testing and experimental baking.
As the wheat comes in from various
centres it is put through analytical tests
by a cereal-chemist. These establish its
protein-value, moisture-content and other
qualities, including its suitability or
otherwise for bakers’ flour.
The dough-testing section is fitted with
one of the most delicate and accurate
machines in the world. It was made in
Germany and its process is virtually an
X-ray of the properties of the flour illus-
trated on a continuous graph. It
analyses the resistance of dough to the
physical process it undergoes during
baking. The greater the resistance the
better the bread.
The final section is experimental bak-
ing. Test-loaves are baked in an electric-
oven with a revolving hearth. It features
thermostat-control, interior lighting and a
visor in the door to allow the progress of
baking to be watched. Finally, the baked
bread is judged on crust-color, crumb-
color and texture, cutting properties,
flavor and general appearance.
As the tests progress various types of
wheat will be mixed and treated, the
whole idea being to bring to the public
the best loaf science can provide.—
Ann (N.S.W.).
.
Millers complain about the poor mill-
ing-quality of f.a.q. wheat; bakers com-
plain of the poor baking-quality of
flour; consumers complain. And every-
one blames the wheat-cocky, alleging he
is only interested in heavy-yielding
varieties, disregarding milling-qualities
entirely. On the other hand, some bakers
—notably New Australians —do manage
to turn out a decent loaf of bread.
I think handling of the grain has a
lot to do with the trouble. All Australian
wheat grown inland which reaches f.a.q.
standard is good milling-wheat when
harvested —as it usually is in hot, dry
weather. The trouble comes afterwards,
with absorption of water. In the days
of windjammer transport the gain in
weight on a voyage to London or Liver-
pool often paid the freight charges. Even
now wheat weighed-in at city stores and
stored over the winter will often gain
enough weight to pay storage. Seventy
per cent, of wheat for home-consumption
grown in Victoria is milled in Melbourne
and suburbs.
Flour doesn’t absorb moisture to the
same extent. Dump a bag of wheat in
water and it will be wet through in
minutes. Do the same with a bag of
flour and only a skin of the contents wid
be damaged, provided the bag is salvaged
within a reasonable time. Once every
little hamlet in the wheat country had
its own mill. I don’t remember any com-
plaints about milling- or baking-qualities
then. Now country mills can be counted
on the fingers of a sawmiller’s hand.
Local mills would have other advan-
tages, besides providing better bread.
Saving in freight and wastage should be
considerable, and bran and pollard would
be available in districts where they are
needed.— Shadow-chaser (Vic.).
Artesian Water
Although Australia has the largest
artesian-basin in the world little con-
sideration has been given to the under-
ground storage of water. The alarming
fact is that over 700 bores have ceased
to flow and many others are on the
wane, with disastrous effects on large
areas of pastoral land.
In the U.S.A., where underground-water
supply is also on the decline, considerable
planning and practical work has been
done to increase soakage of rain into
the geological layers which store water.
It was quickly recognised that forests and
grass or plants which penetrate the sub-
soil induced the greatest seepage. Tests
in areas where suitable vegetation was
grown proved that the insoak reached as
much as 4\ inches of rain per hour. An-
other successful method in use is the
building of small, inexpensive detention-
dams on hills and uplands. These, besides
providing seepage, prevent loss of vegeta-
tion by erosion. .
In many areas underground water is
much cheaper than surface water. Costly
dams, waste of land-space and loss by
evaporation are avoided.
Of Australia’s 3,000,000 square miles,
only one-third receives more than iv
inches of rain a year. Even that is not
dependable, and much, falls on mountain
ranges unsuited for agriculture. Water
sets the limit to our inland population,
and every effort should be made to
preserve and build-up supplies.—ANN
(N.S.W.).


Big Business
The introduction of compulsory
unionism in N. S. Wales gives a new
slant on big business. The dragooning of
workers into unions will boost union
funds tremendously. Membership of the
Clerks’ Union will increase from 10,000
to over 80,000, with at least £160,000
extra income. The Australian Workers’
Union will approximate 60,000 mem-
bers and a yearly income of £lBO,OOO.
The Shop Assistants’ Union will increase
from 15,000 to 40,000, and a total income
of approximately £130,000.
Many other unions—A.R.U., Road
Transport Workers’, Hotel Club and
Restaurant Employees’, Sheetmetal
Workers’, Ironworkers’, Timber Workers’
—will benefit greatly in membership and
money. The yearly income of unions in
N. S. Wales will soar to something
approaching £5 million, which isn’t bad,
considering no capital outlay.
Will the Wards and Cahills rant about
this form of big business? Not likely!
Most of Labor’s funds will come from
these unions. The wretched part of;
Cahill’s compulsory membership of
unions is that a good percentage of the
new unionists don’t care tuppence for
Labor or its politics. But these people
have no say in what becomes of union
funds.—D. J. K. (Q.).
Maize
“C.V.R,” is a bit behind the latest
findings if he thinks that maize came
from America (B. 27/1/’54). In its wild
form maize was a coarse-stemmed grass
bearing small cobs of seeds in sheaths at
the nodes. This grass is a native of south-
east Asia.
At some time after the close of the
last lee Age, when northern Asia became
habitable again, there was a drift of
population from the south. These people
took with them the ancestor of the maize-
plant. In time, they crossed the Bering
Sea and spread down the American con-
tinent. Food offerings buried in graves
there show the subsequent development
of maize.
In the oldest graves the cobs are little
bigger than an acorn, but as the people
gained skill in agriculture and hit upon
the idea of seed-selection the cobs in-
creased in size. By the time the first
white explorers landed in America, the
maize-plant had developed to what we
know today.— Archaen (S.A.).
The Antarctic
“W.J.W.” is a bit rusty on navigation
(B. 27/1/’54). Macquarie Island is a
long way from the Antarctic continent,
and I’ll bet there are very few big ships
in the dozens of wrecks known to litter
that windswept coastline. Most of them
were sealers looking for profitable herds
of elephant- and fur-seals during last
century.
England’s industrial revolution ran on
seal-oil drained from the ring of islands
“I will NOT go to the men's department."
that surround the Antarctic continent.
Tough citizens, those sealing-gangs.
They built crude stone huts with penguin-
skin fires for warmth, lived sometimes
for years on seal- and penguin-meat,
with a ration of flour and molasses, and
killed each other when the dreadful
monotony of the island and its climate
sent them mad.
Whole rookeries of king penguins
were driven up long ramps and straight
into the boiling- vats. Hundreds of
thousands of elephant - seals were
" Darling , I'd like you to meet Professor Crackpot, the eminent anthro-
pologist, who's come to give us the once-over."
butchered and rendered down, and the
fur-seal is virtually extinct because of
their indiscriminate slaughter. All to
make perhaps three hundred dollars in
three or four years on the island. There
were many cases of American captains
dumping their parties ashore and forget-
ting to return at all.
The vessel Koombana? Nobody who
has been through an Antarctic hurricane
would natter about submarine currents.
Coming back from Heard Island last
year we caught one. Wind at 120-odd
miles an hour, roaring unimpeded across
that vast, frozen ocean, can build up a
fair sort of a sea. We had 500 tons and
rode it out, but only because our skipper
was a Norwegian with years of Antarctic
whale-catchers behind him.
Koombana had thousands of tons. A
shift of cargo, perhaps an overconfident
master, and Koombana would quickly
join the hundreds of ships that have dis-
appeared without trace, without any sub-
*
marine currents to carry them south.
And what happened to Aurora, Maw-
son’s old ship? She disappeared while
sailing for England via the Horn; she
probably was caught in one of those
terrible winds and capsized. She was
said to be top-heavy.—V. I- H. (W.A.).
Room for Travellers
There’s marked contrast in what’s pro-
vided for camping motorists north and
south of the Murray. In a beautiful set-
ting out from Healesville (Vic.) there are
tables, .sheds, wood, water —hat water if
you want it—toilets, taps and garbage-
containers, all for no charge. A few
miles farther on, right on top of the
Divide, with a magnificent view sweep-
ing out below, there are shelter-shed
with tables, a safe fireplace flanked with
weatherproof iron wood-boxes, a stone
building with toilets, washbasins and
showers, and a printed invitation to use
the lot freely. Also, on the Victorian
section of the Hume Highway, in the
dry-grass belt, most little creeks have
fireplaces near them, the ground around
having been lately scraped bare by the
council grader or ’dozer, you feel that
you are meant to feel at home.
In N. S. Wales the only references to
fires are frequent and prominent notices
to the effect that you are forbidden to
light them anywhere except in the
camping-areas of certain towns.
I appreciate the suspicions of graziers
when Pitt-street pioneers stop beside
their boundaries, but I also think it
niggardly to fence off the last possible
yard of creek-side land, so that the
traveller has no room to pull up, much
less camp, by the only running wafer he
has seen for miles.
We don’t all want to stay at pubs, and
we can’t all run to caravans, so I sug-
gest that some of these affluent N. S.
Wales councils, full of fat properties,
mightn’t find it a bad investment to spare
a few quiet camping-spots for the bloke
whose only share of his native land is a
passionate attachment for the sights and
sounds and smell of it. — Billy T.
(N.S.W.).
Wine and Grapes
Sales of Australian wine to the U.K.
have fallen to 20 per cent, of the pre-war
level —700,000 gals, as against 3,600,000
gals, in 1939. The decline in U.K. pur-
chases is proportionately much greater in
Australian wines than in other imported
wines and British wines.
The main factor affecting our sales is
the steep increase in the U.K. tariff —
from 4s. in 1939 to 40s. per gallon today.
Our market was mostly with the lower-
income groups, but we have now been
priced out of it.
Some reduction in the tariff is expected,
but Australia will have a big fight to
regain the lost trade. South Africa has
the advantage of cheaper grapes and
lower manufacturing and transport costs.
It also has a much more efficient selling
organisation. One major distributing
channel does the work for South Africa,
while Australia has a multiplicity of
them. Those who should know say that
our methods have hampered rather than
helped us.
Stocks in Australia are not excessive,
but they are sufficient to have a big influ-
ence on the attitude of the wine-makers
in their negotiations for the purchase of
the coming crop. Vintage is not far away,
and growers are feeling a little concerned
about prices and prospects, particularly
in view of last year’s drop of about one-
third. The Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
wine-grape crop worth £563,200 in
1952. Its value fell £336,400 in 1953.
The cost of production of wine-grapes
is now being examined by the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, while the Aus-
tralian Wine Board has asked the Tariff
Board to investigate makers’ costs. It is
hoped the investigations will bring
makers and growers a little closer
together.
Growers’ organisations have agreed to
a levy of 6s. per ton to help a nation-
wide advertising campaign, but on the
condition that they are paid a reasonable
price for their grapes. The N. S. Wales
Wine-grapes Marketing Board suggests
a price-fixing committee along the lines
of the Fruit Industries Sugar Concession
Committee, which fixes the price of can-
ning-fruits each year.
Plans which involve amendments to the
wine-exporting regulations to simplify
distribution of wine in the U.K. are being
( considered, and it seems • certain that a
1 move will be made to persuade the States
to liberalise their licensing regulations to
something like those of Canberra. If
that were done it would mean a tremen-
dous boost to Australian sales. —R. M.
, (N.S.W.).
Building Tradesmen
It looks to me as though tradesmen,
particularly in the building game, are
pricing themselves out of work. They
have pushed and pushed for higher
wages until few people can now afford to
have work done by a building tradesman
of any kind.
Like dozens of others, I have been
compelled to do work normally done by
carpenters, bricklayers and, occasionally,
plumbers and electricians. The old house
I’ve bought is being modernised with-
out the help of highly-paid building
tradesmen.
One job, for example, consisted of
reconstructing a fireplace and veneering
it with stone, plus a large brick step at
the back-door. The tradesman’s quote
was £45. Materials cost me £6 and, as
well as the fireplace, I managed to extend
the step into a spacious terrace.
It’s a trend that will not stop at home-
building. No trade is immune, and forc-
ing the individual to do things himself
could profoundly affect our way of life.
—lago (Vic.),
Leaving Certificate
Vague critics of the Leaving Certificate,
like “Parent Teacher” (B. 3/2/’54), are
legion, but none of them offers a practical
alternative —because they can’t.
If the Leaving is to remain the fust step
in the stairway to the professions any
revolutionary change in the pass-by-per-
centage system would be jerrymandering
with a time-tried and tradesmanlike
edifice. The Leaving in its present form
clearly indicates whether or not the aver-
age high-school child merits further
advanced education.
And why discriminate between 50-
and 80-percenters, provided the pass it-
self is earned and gained? Many candi-
dates who just scrape through on an all-
round B-pass later become shining lights
in university or industry. After all, the
Leaving Certificate has become an educa-
tional trophy of recognised value, and its
acquisition should remain competitive by
strictly-controlled examination. As for
some makeshift system of issuing school-
certificates “drawn up by competent
people giving an adequate picture of
every child’s capabilities,” that would
soon lend itself to favoritism and other
abuses. It would become suspect and
unreliable as a guide to the holders’ true
qualifications.
It’s invariably the professional educa-
tionalist who objects to the examination
system. I wonder why? Aren’t all fife’s
major prizes won by competition—i.e.,
by examination or its equivalent? In
the class-room there is no practical sub-
stitute for examination, a fact which the
history and meteoric strides of higher
education make plain. Admittedly an
odd capable student for one reason or
another fails surprisingly when before the
examiners, but the exception should never
be permitted to bring the rule into ques-
tion—P.O.M.C. (N.S.W.).


gdf
lUMUYS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-land
I Why not Me advantage o! \
\ lumley's Free Advisory Service )
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS [£
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
els.s.lB
gdf
SIMPLEX
Centrifugal
GOVERNORS
For the accu-
rate speed con-
trol of internal
c o m b u stion
engines.
Flyweight type, precision built.
Can be mounted either vertical
or horizontal position. Can
be supplied with Vee belt
pulleys and belts to your
specification.
Price £B/10/-, plus Sales Tax
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road,
Newtown, Sydney. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
g
« . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NBO-
BABREEE
No Padt—
r No Spring t
The NBO-BAEEIEI
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon tiie orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Wtitt today fov FREE LITERATURE.
BA BRISKS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3i), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
dfg
Os
1-OW-
>»*
)H*
Dii-MGi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
■w 6
Any partleulart gladly tappllad—
Writ. t» DAVIS GELATINS: W-ft taa «*},
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bon 4058, MELBOURNE • 6.P.0.
Bm 712 f, ADELAIDE • S.PX). 80. 758 K. BRISBANE’
• 9.P.0, Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Aerial-spraying
“Agric.”; Through the 15-year
U.K.-Australia meat-agreement,
Australia is under an obligation
to do everything possible to
increase meat-exports to Britain.
To some extent this fits in with
the amended policy of the
Queensland Lands Department to
develop, for crop-feeding of
cattle, the five to six million
acres of brigalow-belah country
with a rainfall of 20in. annually
or over.
The Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment’s five-year special deprecia-
tion allowance on plant en-
couraged graziers to buy modern
plant for the clearing of briga-
low-country, and some of the
larger graziers have done a good
job by this method.
Aerial - spraying, which is
being experimented with by the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture, is much quicker and
so far shows signs of being very
effective, but it is very costly,
particularly for the smaller
graziers. Roma branch of the
Maranoa Graziers’ Association
is moving for a Federal Govern-
ment subsidy towards the cost.
If the Federal Government
decides to assist by way of
subsidy, however, the Queensland
Government will have to review
its legislation covering land-
settlement and -development.
President of the United
Graziers’ Association W. A.
Gunn, who is also president of
Graziers’ Federal Council, has
pointed out that a grazier who
spent £2500 on pulling down
brigalow and belah before the
Government passed the 1952
amendment to the Land Acts,
which deals with land being
surrendered on condition that
the lessee receives greater
security of tenure for the re-
mainder of his holding, will
receive no compensation for that
expenditure.
The land laws of the State
dealing with compensation for
ringbarking also will have to
be revised, to recoup graziers
for the cost incurred when land
is surrendered to enable graziers
to obtain greater security for
the remainder of their holdings.
Hitherto, graziers would not
undertake such expenditure
unless they would be holding
the land long enough to recoup
the cost by increased production.
If the Government wants land
for intensive cultivation, which
is the aim of the 1952 amending
Act, it should be prepared to
compensate landholders for any
expense incurred.
Bot-flies and Horses
“Deejay”: Horses will gallop
any distance to get away from
bot-flies, although the flies do
not bite but lay their eggs under
the jaw and on the lower-limbs.
The eggs hatch and enter
through the mouth-lining and
per the bloodstream to the
stomach, where they cause
trouble.
Best treatment is carbon-
bisulphide, and best preventive
is to rub under the jaws and the
legs of the prad during the
summer months with a rag well-
soaked in kerosene.
Handling Bees
“Big Billy”: Bees are easily
handled under most conditions,
but it’s a good rule to wear a
veil. Use a bee-smoker. Old,
clean bagging or pine-needles
make good smoker-fuel.
When working a hive don’t
stand in front of the entrance,
but to one side. Before opening
the hive give a few puffs of
smoke at the entrance. Remove
the cover and place it alongside
the hive in a reversed position,
so that the top box may be
placed on it while the lower box
is being examined.
Bring the smoker into use
again when the mat is being
removed. A few gentle puffs
drive away the bees from the
top of the frames. When lifting
out individual frames be care-
ful to avoid quick, jerky move-
ments and jarring of the hives
or frames.
When examining the combs
in the brood-chamber, remove
the first outside, nearest frame
and stand against the hive close
to the entrance. This will allow
plenty of room to examine the
other combs without risk of
crushing the bees.
After, every winter a quantity
of refuse will be found on the
bottom-board of the hive. Best
way to remove this is to have
a spare clean bottom-board.
Lift hive off its stand on to the
clean board and remove and
clean the old one.
Keep the entrance clear of
grass or anything that would
obstruct the bees in flight. A
piece of old tin on the ground
in front of the hive will stop
the grass growing.
Pasture Combinations
“Billjim”; In higher-rainfall
areas Lotus major as the main
legume will give an excellent
cover. If this variety is used,
a suitable mixture is perennial
rye-grass, 101 b.; crested dogstail,
41b,; Yorkshire fog, 21b.; Lotus
major lib, and white clover, lib.
In hilly country white clover
is a good standby if regularly
top-dressed. Mix 101 b. perennial
rye with 41b. crested dogstail,
21b. Yorkshire fog and 31b.
white clover. Some hill-country
is too dry for perennial clover:
try subterranean clover instead.
In drier areas mix 51b. perennial
rye with 41b. Danthonia pilosa,
61b. cocksfoot, 41b. sub.-clover
and lib. suckling-clover.
Asparagus
“Dutchy”: Given the right
conditions, asparagus thrives. A
few years back, at Gundagai
(N.S.W.), part of the,old Dalkeith
property was taken over for
asparagus-growing (a novelty in
the district), and along neighbor-
ing paddocks on the rich
Murrumbidgee flats the stuff ran
wild. Locals, accustomed to
thinking of asparagus as a
tinned luxury, could fill their
cars.
On a commercial scale, swift
harvesting and transport to the
processing-centre require careful
organisation, apart from general
management; but there is a
place for asparagus in the home
garden.
' Asparagus can be grown on
almost any loamy soil of
moderate depth. Mulching and
manuring should he heavy.
“Five miles as the crow flies? Thanks , mister."
except on rich soils, such as
alluvial flats. If the soil is not
loose and friable it should be
sub-soiled to a depth of 18in.
Field crops should be grown on
flat, rather than raised, beds, so
that machinery can be used more
easily.
Seed is sown in spring, in a
prepared bed, drills 2ft, apart.
Plants are thinned-out to one
every 2in. or Sin. Seed should
be soaked in warm water before
planting, and covered with soil
lin.in depth. Keep seedlings clean
and well-worked, and plant out
in the following spring. Use
only tall and strong plants. A
good method of planting is to
run out drills 4ft. apart both
ways, and plant at the intersec-
tion of the drills. Keep the
crowns up and spread roots out
naturally. Cover crowns with
Sin. of soil. Keep plants clean
and well - worked through
summer until tops die down;
then cut them off and burn them.
If farmyard manure is avail-
able, apply it heavily during the
winter. Failing this, spent tan-
bark will make a good mulch.
Artificial manures can be applied
in spring. Don’t allow plants to
seed. Seedlings are the greatest
trouble-makers in the bed. Seed-
heads should be cut off in autumn
and burnt before the seed ripens.
Growth must be forced by
plenty of manure to get succulent,
quick-growing shoots.
Cutting shouldn’t commence
until the fourth spring. Remove
small, as well as large, shoots.
Cut daily so leaf-buds won’t have
a chance to open. Method of
cutting varies, according to type
of asparagus required; if
blanched, shoots should be cut
Bin. or 9in. below surface as soon
as tips appear ; if green asparagus
is wanted, the shoots should run
up to 6in. or 7in. above-ground,
and another 2in. should be cut
below-ground. Another method
is to cut plants 4in. below-ground
when 4in. high.
It takes up to four years to
get a crop; but, against this,
asparagus has been known to
outlive the farmer who planted
it.
Citrus Diseases
“Cftro”: Septoria - spot of
citrus appears as dark-colored
“spots” on the skin of the fruit.
This spoils the market-value,
badly-affected fruit often being
rejected.
The spots usually show out
late in the season, but control-
measures should be taken now.
Spray with Bordeaux mixture,


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
I
m&m
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS . . . NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
I
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS ' """""
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: E. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Eadolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
/m
&
- \tea (
A WOMAN’S WORK
IS TEN TIMES
EASIER WITH
GA
Brad. Trade Mark
s
v c:
CHECK WHY?
AGA BURNS CONTINUOUSLY
Ready for instant use day and night.
Safe and reliable for overnight cook-
ing.
AGA COOKS BETTER UNAIDEO
Meals don’t have to be watched, tem-
peratures are automatically adjusted.
Separate hot plates boil or simmer.
Separate ovens roast or simmer.
AGA GIVES HOT WATER, TOO
The Cooker fire also heats ample
supplies of hot water for kitchen
and bathroom needs.
AGA IS CLEAN
A wipe with a damp cloth keeps the
vitreous enamel surface gleaming.
AGA IS LABOUR SAVING
Needs attention three times only in
24 hours. In all, approximately 10
minutes per day.
AGA IS MORE ECONOMICAL
Even with constant use, fuel bill
can’t exceed the low consumption
of coke which is guaranteed.
AGA KEEPS HEAT INSIDE
Heavy Insulation ensures Cooker
stays hot, kitchen stays cool, always.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
lEstabM*h«d la NJ.. la 1841)
Sols Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
KNOIX HOME WASHER
1 *
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
4S*
’Cfi-
££
* U **AN Ti
a 9o/ n . f :"■*
2 ote "'o/ s ' ou/ ty
fn ° r >ship v *ork.
last •
OTHER AGA COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four
ovens, two hot plates,
one warning plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four
ovens, two hot plates,
one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL M CS" (Two
o Yens, two hoi plaiesjk
MODEL "DS" (Two
ovens, two hoi plates,
plus hoi water tank).
J HEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sjjflney J
l VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne i
■ QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Street*, Brisbane j
I SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide I
! TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart (
| WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS MALLOCH BROS. LM ? Perth ■
h mmmmmmrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmt
strength 3:3: 50, and add i-gal,
of white-oil emulsion.
In southern Victoria citrus-
pit occasionally causes damage.
This is a bacterial disease which
gains entrance into the fruit
through some injury to the skin.
The same organism discolors the
foliage, often resulting in con-
siderable leaf-fail during late
winter. The same spray as for
septoria reduces the chances of
attack.
Pruning to reduce thorn- or
wind-injury and ample wind-
protection by planting shelter-
belts help.
Collar-rot is the most frequent
cause of poor condition and
ultimate death of lemon-trees.
A tree which is yellowish on
one side should be suspect and
thoroughly examined, especially
where the main-trunk enters the
soil. If the bark is cracked in
this region, it’s usually an indi-
cation that collar-rot has set-in.
Sometimes there is considerable
exudation of gum. Caused by
a fungus, this disease attacks
the bark just below soil-level,
and it flourishes in poorly-
drained soils.
In southern Victoria the
drainage-quality of some soils
isn’t too good, and most lemon-
growers ins t a 1 underground
tile - drains. Central - drainage
furrows between trees during
winter helps to remove some of
the surface - water. Avoid
ploughing the soil right onto
the trunks of the trees, or piling
poultry- or stable-manure around
the base.
Lemons on citronelle or
rough lemon rootstock are more
susceptible than sweet or sour
orange. Trifoliata rootstock is
strongly resistant to collar-rot.
Home-gardeners are the most
frequent sufferers, because the
bulk of trees sold are citro-
nelles. They should select a
well-drained site for planting,
setting the tree as high out of
the ground as possible, with the
bud-union well clear of soil-
level. A tall, strong stake is
needed to give rigid support.
Citrus-roots
“Humus”: “Emjai” (B.
3/2/’54) could be barking up
the wrong citrus-tree; anyway,
silver-beet grown around my
grapefruit-tree hasn’t done any
visible harm. Probably the stuff
does good. Tap-roots, for in-
stance, penetrating the sub-
soil, bring up minerals; leaves
give shade and keep the surface-
roots cool.
My tree gets plenty of poultry-
manure and it, liberally top-
dressed with wood-ashes. Fruit
is of excellent quality, although
this Victorian district is con-
sidered unsuitable for citrus.
“Delta”: Tell “Emjai” (B.
3/2/’54) we’re not a bit worried
about the “awful havoc” he
anticipates as the result of grow-
ing silver-beet under our citrus-
tree.
As I said before, there is a
6ft. paling-fence beside the
tree on the western side.
Actually, it is only five inches
from the butt; put up when the
land was subdivided, and when
the tree (which is about 40 years
old) was fully-grown. Nearly
half the tree’s roots are, there-
fore, beyond the fence, and
beyond our control. They have
to compete with the roots of
kikuyu - grass, jacaranda - trees
and poplars.
The citrus was showing the
effects of this competition; so
last autumn, without disturbing
the soil, we spread a few inches
of compost, with a sprinkling
of blood-and-bone, under the
tree. Having a few silver-beet
seedlings on hand, the experi-
ment suggested itself. We
planted them in the compost,
where they have thrived beyond
expectations.
When all the leaves of the
beet have been gathered and
eaten, those “massive roots” will
be left to decompose among the
fine roots of the citrus, and will
open-up the soil, for the entry
of air, moisture and plant-food,
more gently and efficiently than
could be done by the hand of
man.
Shade for Potatoes
“L.K.8.”; Here in potato-
growing north-west Tasmania
coastal farmers, with an odd
half-acre, catch the early market
for potatoes in mid-November.
We harvested three weeks earlier,
from under the cover of a
boobyalla, which protected the
plants from frost.
A local man thinks it would
pay (at present price) to clear
his bracken-infested farm in
strips: rows of potatoes alternat-
ing with rows of bracken for
protection. Might even pay to
cultivate the stuff.
The best crop of cucumbers
we fever grew came off the same
shady spot—an area no larger
than a decent-sized family table.
And from it we got so many
large, juicy cucumbers we had to
cart them to town in a ute.
Orphan Foals
“Myrrhee”; Orphan foals can
be reared on cow’s milk, and if
possible get the milk from a
newly-calved cow. A low fat-
content in the milk is an advan-
tage. To four tablespoons of
lime-water and one of sugar dis-
solved in a little warm water add
fresh milk to make one pint.
Feed new-born foals one
quarter (50z.) of the mixture,
warmed to blood-heat, every
hour for the first few days. It
is best to use a nursing-bottle
with a large nipple until the foal
learns to drink from a bucket.
Sterilise all utensils before each
feeding.
As the foal grows, gradually
increase the amount of milk fed,
but the time between feedings
should be lengthened. After the
first few days six feeds a day
will do, and a little later four
feeds. The sugar may be dropped
when the foal is a month old, but
continue with the lime-water. At
six-weeks, skim-milk may be
substituted gradually, and at
three-months the foal may be
given as much as it wants three
times a day. A little cod-liver
oil or other fish oil may be added
to the ration.
If there is any diarrhoea a
dose of two to four tablespoons
of castor-oil and olive-oil mixed
in equal parts and well shaken-
up in milk is useful, but withhold
milk for a few feeds and give
sweetened warm water with lime-
water instead.
As soon as possible give the
orphan solid food, such as oat-
meal, bran, crushed oats, chaff,
lucerne or hay and allow it to
run in a good paddock to get
exercise and fresh air.
Films for Producers
“My”: The film-section of the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture provides free screenings
of agricultural films for primary
producers. All the local
organisation has to do is to find
the hall and attend to local pub-
licity ; the department does the
rest. If there’s no electricity, a
portable generator will be sent.
Write to the Department of
Agriculture, Treasury Gardens,
Melbourne, C. 2,
Hints For the Farm
“Relwof”: From every lOOgal.
of whole-milk comes nearly
90gal. of skim-milk. It contains
nearly all of the protein, milk-
sugar and minerals of milk, and
thus makes excellent feed for
pigs, calves, poultry, foals and
poddy lambs.
“Otnim”: To cure a broody
hen grab her the first night and
put her in a raised coop with a
wire-netting floor —no perches.
Hang feed- and water-tins from
the sides. Three days “solitary”
usually does it.
“Greatfern”: Don’t use
abrasive cleaners on milk- or
cream-cans, as they cut tinned
surfaces. Use only a good de-
tergent and rinse it from the
can with boiling water. New
cans are covered with a film of
grease which, unless cleaned off,
gives the milk and cream a lead
flavor and is degraded at the
factory.
£( ~ . , „ a *
C.A.A. : As sweet-corn
B rows > draw the 8011 U P to the
plant to help support it. If the
cro P * s ex P osed to strong winds
P lants should have supporting
stakes - If caterpillars are present
as the cobs form > DDT -
as a spray or dust. Best cobs
should be picked every two or
three days as they reach the
milk stage. Maturity is indi-
cated by the husk being well-
filled and tight,
, , ,
M.’ : For pink-eye in calves
use a 5 P er cent. Chloromycetin
ointment. Squeeze half an inch
of the ointment on a finger and
smear it inside the lower eyelid,
Treat twice a day until the
trouble clears -
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
More showers likely along the N.S.W. coast; possibly
some rather heavy falls on the South Coast.
The sun is still free of spots, so that the sunspot
minimum may be regarded as established. But this epoch is
very variable in its duration, and attempts to predict its
end have not yet been successful. The sun is being watched
now for a revival of this activity, which, according to my
own theory, ought now to have a short epoch ending with
another minimum about 1960.
The important possibility for the greater part of eastern
Australia, except the southern end, is a long, cold winter,
especially away from the coast.
GET IN EARLY
“The Bulletin” no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. 6d.


ENJOY
»
a
u
u
>
it.
ft ¥
HO
Australia’s singing favourites, Neil Williams and Lily
Connors, plus Gus Merzi’s trio and compere Leon
Becker, present six songs you asked to hear in radio’s
gayest new musical show.
MACOUARIE |—k
2GB 3AW 4BH SDN
6IX 7HO 7LA
T ATER, when they sat in
companionable silence in the
darkened room, he thought with
a simple wonder, and a fierce
pride, of the events of the night,
Only a few hours ago he had
been a stranger, an alien, in the
big, indifferent city. Then, inci-
dent fitting into incident, person
linking with person, his luck had
led him to this—this luxury,
security, hope. This girl, quietly
smoking beside him, her cigarette
glowing in the darkness, and
all she represented in wealth
and prestige.
All this! The thought was like
an explosion, and he suddenly
had a hysterical desire to laugh.
AU this, money, power, status,
was his, or soon would be. He,
the poor, the despised, the ragged
and hungry of not so long ago,
would be master of this woman,
this aristocrat, and through her
of all he bitterly desired. He
would have all this...and
Stanislaw. The last thought came
unbidden.
nrHE bathroom was fit for
princes, or American million-
aires, Alex thought; a luxurious
bathroom, a princely bathroom,
a palace of a bathroom. In fact.
a bathroom fit for me, he
thought, and laughed into the
mirror, slapping his chest. He
had the bathroom to himself,
Juliette had gone into town,
after giving him his breakfast in
bed, very smug and wifely. She
had to lunch with a girl, such a
nuisance, but perhaps he could
amuse himself? The spare keys
were on the sideboard. She
would see him later, in the after-
noon.
He pranced nakedly in the
beautiful bathroom ; he admired
his blocky figure in the mirror ;
he turned on the hot-water tap
and admired the ready flow of
hot water. Curious as a monkey,
he peered into lockers. The feel
of tiles beneath his bare feet
was sheer luxury. He wouldn’t
be able to have a shave, but, no
worry, he would have a shave in
the city, perhaps a shampoo,
face massage, manicure, every-
thing. He must get used to these
things.
He went into the shower-
cubicle, pulling the plastic cur-
tains together after him, not be-
cause he was worried about the
floor outside getting wet, but
because they were there to be
used, and he was using them,
Cautiously he turned on the
cold-water tap first, then the hot
water, a turn at a time, until he
got the right temperature. Ah,
that was it! Just right; hot and
steamy. He soaped himself with
Juliette’s scented soap, raising
foaming masses of lather, let-
ting the hot water beat it off.
He sang Orchen chorneeye ...
Ee prekrasneeye, he sang in
Russian. Her eyes were beauti-
ful, but they were hazel, and
how they lit up, at times. He
chuckled and turned off the hot
water, letting the cold shock
steady him, not flinching. He
forced himself to stay under the
cold water a few seconds longer,
motionless.
Drying himself with one of
the soft, white towels he felt
wonderful. Warm. Vital. In-
vincible. He dropped the towel
on the tiled floor and stood on
it while be wiped his feet with
another clean towel.
This bathroom was beautiful,
but he was not awed by it. If
was his. Stanislaw? He could
laugh at Stanislaw this morning.
Stanislaw was not important.
Juliette was important. She was
rich. He had asked her. “Are
you very rich?” he had asked
tenderly, and she had looked af
him. Rich girls learn early to
suspect the motives of lovers.
“Why?” she had said lightly.
“Is that all you are interested in,
my money?” “I am very in-
terested in money,” he had said
seriously. After one look at his
face she believed him.
That was the best way. At
first he had thought he had made
a mistake, but now he knew that
the honest way had been best.
After that she had told him all
about her money: she had an
income, a substantial income,
from her father, but she had her
own money, from her mother.
It was a great deal of money,
invested in solid shares. She
was richer than he had believed,
and she was twenty-two. There
was no reason why they should
not be married. She had agreed
to that, too.
But she had released a tender-
ness, a weakness, in him. He
had not known it was there,
and now, in the blue morning,
he was ashamed of it. He had
talked, and talked, last night,
trying to tell her, in his own
fashion, what manner of man
he was. Some instinct of fair-
ness, of justice, driving him to
give her that chance, that choice.
At last, when she could not
see, he sat up and said, shrilly;
“It is like this. You would not
want a man who was half a man,
who was mutilated, would you?
I am like that, not in my body,
not what you can see, but inside.
It is not my fault, they made me
like that, but that is what I am.
I am half a man.”
For answer she held him tight
in her slim, bare arms, an em-
brace fierce and protective. That
touched him.
Later she made him a cup of
coffee and they talked till the
grey light filled the windows,
calmly. Then he slept, heavily,
until she brought him his break-
fast.
Well, half a man could be
stronger than a whole man. That
outbreak had been spontaneous,
a brief authentic agony. But,
after all, if he had planned it,
could it have turned out any
better? He was combing his
hair in the mirror, and he
smirked at his reflection. Now
he must go and see that old fool
of an inspector.
TNSPECTOR STONE had been
A talking on the telephone, long-
distance.
“Do something,” Juliette’s
father had urged, but he had
explained, patiently, that there
was very little he could do. He
would look up the fellow’s his-
tory, of course; he might—he
could—make things hot for him
in petty, harassing ways. But
what good would that do, with
a girl like Juliette? Only make
her more determined...
While he was talking the old,
grey thought came back, deaden-
ing his voice. Why? Why had
Barbara, so like Juliette in her
brightness, her sudden gaiety and
quick melancholy, done it? In
what way had he failed? Was
it a part of her sensitivity, too
easily abraded? So that in one
black moment the world had
become an intolerable weight,
and she had found escape in a
gas-oven? Because he had not
been strong enough, discerning
enough, to ease its pressure a
little? After half a lifetime of
married life: and had it been
happy—if she could do that?
After that failure, how could
he help anyone?
There was the other thought,
too, never far from his mind.
He had enemies. He had been
ruthless in his time, and there
were men who would be glad to
make him suffer. Could some
criminal, some enemy outside
the borderline of humanity, have
revenged himself through Bar-
bara? There was no shadow of
evidence to support this belief,
and to pursue it too far, he felt,
would lead to insanity. Never-
theless, he did pursue it. The
suspicion haunted him, obsessed
him. It touched his whole
career with a terrible irony. At
times it made him cruel.
“It’s your own fault,” he
exploded into the phone
finally: “You leave the girl
down here with too much
money, let her do what she
likes and wonder why harm
comes to her. You’re a fool,
Jim, a criminal fool.”
The man four hundred miles
away sighed: “You might be
right. I’ll catch a plane.”
“Good.” He had control of
himself now. “I’ll do what I
can, Jim, but I tell you frankly,
it’s not much. I’ll see you to-
morrow, then?”
“Tomorrow early. Good-
bye, Ted. And thanks.” He
heard the click and put down
his own receiver.
“All right,” he said to Ser-
geant Dennis Callaghan, who
had poked his dark, bullet head
in round the door, “bring him
in.”
Alex came in, followed by
Sergeant Callaghan with the
typewritten sheet in his hand.
“Sit down,” the inspector said
curtly. Alex sat down, and the
inspector studied him. The
blue suit, the tan shoes, the
ring, the pale face. This dirty
little stoolpigeon. Barbara
had thought of Juliette as a
daughter.
“You’ve read the state-
ment?” he said dryly.
Alex nodded.
“Well, read it again.”
The fat sergeant handed him
the statement, and he ran
through it quickly: “This is
correct. Inspector,” he said,
raising his dark-brown eyes.
“Sign it.”
The sergeant offered him a
pen. Deliberately he signed,
ending his signature with a
flourish, a long dark upstroke
of the pen. The nib scratched.
The inspector took the paper
and blotted the signature. He
put it on the desk beside him.
“All right,” he said curtly.
“You can clear out now.”
Alex hesitated, “You have
arrested him?”
The inspector looked up:
“What?”
Alex cleared his throat;
“Stanislaw —you have him?”
The inspector looked at him
curiously: “Do you want to
see him?”
“No. No. I just wondered—
if you had him locked-up...”
The inspector leaned back.
He played with his watch-
chain. “Acting on your infor-
mation —offered voluntarily—
I instructed four of my best
men to go to the hotel. The
man was in his room asleep.
The murder weapon was in the
room. It had been cleaned, but
a laboratory test showed fine
traces of human blood. It’s an
open-and-shut case.”
“I see. So he has been
arrested?”
“Yes, he was arrested. Any
more questions?”
“No. No. Thank you, In-
spector. Good-morning.”
“Now why,” Sergeant
Dennis Callaghan wanted to
know, when Alex had gone,
“did you say that?”
“Say what?” The inspector’s
bushy eyebrows shot up.
“That you had his mate
locked-up.”
“I didn’t say that. I said
he had been arrested. I didn’t
say he got away after the tech-
nical arrest, which took place
when the first policeman laid a
hand on him, because,” the in-
spector stroked his long chin
and stared steadily at Cal-
laghan, “because, Dennis,
there’s such a thing as policy.
Something like that only hap-
pens once in a lifetime. Be-
sides, he’ll be picked up in a
matter of hours. Why advertise
the fact that four policemen
couldn’t arrest one man?”
“He’s a powerful brute,”
Callaghan said. “Smith’s in
hospital”
“More fool Smith,” the in-
spector said calmly. “By the
way, Callaghan.” He looked at
his watch. “Go to the Satin
Restaurant. Miss Juliette Baxter
will be having lunch there with
a friend. Pick her up and bring
her here—for a statement, you
can tell her, but bring her, any-
way. Oh, and send Taylor in,’
ALEX paused outside a
barber’s shop, scrubbed his
bristling chin with his fingers,
and went on. Why waste
money? His razor was in his
room in the pub. Rdbm 69.
And room 67 empty.
Room 69: the hole in the
plaster, the slit blind, the awful
wall-paper ... He would hand
in his key; he would live some-
where else until he arranged
things with Juliette —perhaps at
her flat itself. He threw off his
coat and shirt and, towel in one
hand, shaving-brush and razor
in the other, padded down the
passage to the bathroom and
opened the door.
The cold prickle of the knife-
point sent its screaming message
to his brain before his eyes trans-
mitted their own intelligence.
The name was imprinted there, in
pain and terror, the last con-
scious thought before he dis-
solved with a coughing scream,
quickly choked in his own blood,
which ran over the gay tiles of
the bathroom, staining the towel
where he had dropped it.
It was StanisMw.,


TAW JAMESON
By May Davies Martenet
This sensitive novel of a family retainers devotion to the daughter of the
house establishes the author as a storyteller who excels in characterization.
At all booksellers, 15/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
ROYAL VISIT
The only OFFICIAL COMMEMORATIVE BOOK of the Australian Royal Tour
Royal Visit, your souvenir record of the visit of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
and His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh to Australia, is the official
commemorative volume authorised by the Commonwealth Government.
Right now, this beautiful volume is being designed and prepared. It will represent
the entire Australian Tour. There will be 104 pages printed on art paper, including
8 pages of natural colour and 183 black-and-white (the best of all
those taken during the Tour), and descriptive text —the whole handsomely bound
and wrapped with a full colour jacket.
Royal Visit will be published in May. Price, 19/6
To be sure of your copy, ORDER NOW from your bookseller, or from the publishers
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89>95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
To be published this month
THE ASHES CROWN THE YEAR
By J. H. FINGLETON
This book is more than simply a cricket book ; it is also the story of
Coronation year in England, as seen by an Australian journalist.
288 PAGES 26 ILLUSTRATIONS
COLLINS
Place an order with your Bookseller now.
PUBLISHERS
the Manawatu into grazing-lands for
sheep, is it surprising that Sir James,
though with all due deference and affec-
tion, sometimes replied to the paternal
scoldings with a certain asperity:
Bulls. 30 October, 1886. I have yours of
Ist Sept, duly to hand. Certainly you have
laid yourself out for a scold —indeed I
think that both you and George [his
brother] would be the better for a course
of Blue pi 115.... And now my dear father
I am going to have a good go-in at you.
Ever since I was a kid you’ve scolded,
scolded at me, never once that I can re-
member giving me much encouragement.
Now you quote George to me as saying
my wool is disgraceful and my business
habits no better. My wool is much more
cotted than I could wish, and I continue
to hope to improve it year by year, but
that there is any disgrace connected with it
I won’t for a moment admit Since I
left home in ’7O I have never cost you a
penny that you did not charge against me
except the presents you made me since
'BO. Every penny I spent since 1 came to
Victoria was charged against me with
interest; never an allowance credited.
Even my own keep on the Station had to
be debited to my account. When the crash
came this was standing in the books, and
I had to meet the whole.
Small wonder again, when Sir James
was thus being catechised and (though
the result of this particular letter was a
handsome gift from the old man) pressed
to repay part of the huge sum he had
borrowed from his father’s firm, that
his wife, too, bearing the full burden of
the economies that were forced upon the
household, was moved to protest. Lady
Wilson was an Australian girl, a Miss
Annie Adams whose parents owned a
station in western Victoria. Wilson met
her when he first emigrated from Scot-
land and was thinking of settling in
Victoria, enjoying himself at such festi-
vals as the Warrnambool races with “the
Hoods, the Palmers, the Armstrongs, the
Rutledges, the Chirnsides and others, ‘a
merry crowd’.” From Bulls his wife
(a remarkable woman, she seems) wrote
to her father-in-law:
You say in your last that with care and
economy we should have increased the
production more largely. This is naturally
the view of anyone who doesn’t know the
difficulties of the position Jim has now
been 12 years hard at work and has suc-
ceeded in breaking-in about one-third of
the property. Where shall we be when it
is finished? I know very well where I
shall be, and I don’t think he will be far
behind, judging by his careworn and
middle-aged appearance that is when his
liver is troubling and his overdraft is on
hand; at other times he looks compara-
tively nice-looking and cheerful. I think
you will see that at this rate there is not
much chance of paying off the mortgage.
Indeed, if times were better it would seem
better policy to borrow another sum
sufficient to make the whole place pay and
have done with it.
Published with the aid of the State
literary-fund, The Life and Times of Sir
James Wilson is almost as much the his-
tory of a farm as the life of a man. In
parts, when Mr. Wild tabulates the num-
ber of sheep on the property, the cost of
fodder, fencing and machinery, etc,, it
looks very much like —and reads as for-
midably as —the New Zealand Official
Year-book.
Sir James was an important influence
in farming in New Zealand, but his
Parliamentary career was accurately if
acidly summed-up by the Wanganui
"Herald,” which called him “the dummy
of the House” —an opponent, Pirani, dis-
closed that “out of 72 divisions Mr.
Wilson voted only in eight”—and, though
members of the Farmers’ Union, which
he helped to found and of which he was
the first national president, will doubtless
find a special interest in the biography, it
hardly seems likely to have much general
circulation. Mr. Wild might have done
better simply to print, with a short
biographical commentary, the letters by
Wilson and his wife; which, though not
outstanding, are pleasing human docu-
ments and of some historical value as a
picture of pioneering in the Manawatu.
"That Man Harlington"
Plays are so rarely published in New
Zealand—and in Australia, for that
matter-—that when a three-acter such as
Claude Evans’s That Man Harlington
(Pegasus Press, Christchurch) does find
its way into print one is inclined to expect
it to be a work of art as well as a work-
able machine for the theatre: two very
different things.
That Man Harlington isn’t quite what
one could call a work of art. It
approaches that august territory in its
portrait of the embezzling solicitor Har-
lington—a gay and plausible old rogue—
and in its evocation of the peculiar
museum-like atmosphere of the lawyer’s
office where Harlington keeps whisky in
a cupboard amongst the files of leather-
bound law-reports; but it falls away
again in the lack of some final
authenticity.
It is doubtful, really, if the fall from
grace of a member of an honorable pro-
fession is a subject for what Mr. Evans
calls “satirical comedy”: the logical end
to such a career is one of squalid tragedy.
One feels that there are depths of shame
and desperation which the author, mov-
ing easily along the surface of such
emotions, has not cared to touch. Mr.
Evans is hardly credible in the device
which sustains the play past the limits
of a one-acter, when Harlington’s
exposure is delayed because, if the young
auditor who unmasks him makes the
matter public, his own father and partner
will be disgraced for not having spotted
the defalcations himself at an earlier
date. It is noticeable that the legatees
who ask Harlington to pay-up their
legacies are drawn as grasping and un-
pleasant characters —too obvious a device
to create sympathy for the solicitor and
to keep the play on the level of comedy.
And the happy-ending, when the old
woman (a comic-Cockney type) whom
Harlington has principally defrauded,
dies and leaves him all her money, is
extremely mechanical.
From the stagecraft point of view the
introduction of four new characters, none
of them really necessary, at the beginning
of the second act might worry an econo-
mically-minded producer a little; and it
would have been useful to have the thief
named Manty, whom Mr. Harlington
improbably reforms but who otherwise
has no active part in the drama, help to
unmask the solici'tor.
But these are minor points; and, in
general, with its bright dialogue and its
moments of comedy and tension, and
with a romance running through it, the
play should interest little-theatres in
Australia as well as in New Zealand. It
was produced at the Repertory Theatre
in Christchurch in 1952.
Reviewed Briefly
The Marmot Drive: John Hersey
(Hamish Hamilton). A reading of this
novel is a liberal education in marmots,
but it is not essentially an animal-story.
A Connecticut village of Puritan descent
organises a marmot-drive —the animals
are to be dislodged from their burrows,
beaten through the woods, herded into a
netted enclosure and exterminated. The
project calls for community effort but,
as in most small social groups, the main
purpose is obscured by dissensions and
disagreements. Hester, a young city girl
on a weekend visit to the village, is a
focal character. She is nearly, but not
quite, engaged to Eben, whose father
is the chief instigator of the drive. In a
sense this novel is an allegory, and while
it is not sustained at its first high level
throughout, nevertheless it will be en-
joyed by most people for its unusual
conception, the constructional crafts-
manship, and for the flavor and beauty
of Hersey’s flexible prose.
• • ♦ •
Death of a Spy: Sydney Horler
(Museum Press). Renewing acquaintance
with this old master of the crime-adven-
ture story is a salutary experience for
anyone who regrets the “good old days.”
Here they are almost unchanged: remote
farmhouses are tenantless for the con-
venience of gangs of desperadoes, and all
complete with dummy walls and window*
less escape-proof rooms. Detective-
inspectors (in the pristine innocence of
their hearts) “gape” when told the shock-
ing truth that a millionaire industrialist
keeps a beautiful mistress. Heroes, when
tried too far, call villains horrid words
like “scud.” Indeed it is all very agree-
able and the reader who enjoys this soi t
of thing will be able to sneer and snail
and answer his friends in a brittle voice,
throwing them glances of glaring hate,
If they dare intrude on his privacy before
the last page has been shall we say/
avidly consumed,
* * * *
A Stranger in Town: James Dillon
Wh ite (Heinemann). The displaced pup-
pet_Minister of a Soviet-controlled State
f s trying to escape into the Western Zone
with his little son. The son is got through
b an und er gr ound brother and sister;
and a ft er much suspense and adventure
the displace d Minister himself is helped
acroS9 by the Communist major in
charge of the district who is a friend of
the British commander on the other side
of the river and secretly in love with his
wife. The Communist major is de-
nounced ; the displaced Minister returns
to put him on side ; and the story con-
eludes ingeniously. It is an unusual spy-
thriller, the characters more deeply-
studied than in most such things ; but
the treatment hardly outweighs the im-
probabilities.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 266
Across
I— Gray gives a start to the side
fearfully. (4)
3—The fellow is mean to indulge
in a little familiarity with
Penelope. (10)
10—Fifty-five in the articles of the
Spaniard who ran the “Council
of Blood” in the Netherlands.
. (4)
ll Ararmm affectionately linked an
attow sticking in your wing.
(3-2-3)
13— Improper story among Indian
peasants might suggest lawless-
ness. (5)
14— Put fire under a division of the
race. (4)
16—Hermits before little fellows. (8)
18—Animal friends come back and
dance way up. (4)
31— Have a heart, Mr. Spoil. (3)
23 You take the beak to an objec-
tionably obsequious hanger-on.
(6)
24 Veronica Nyanza is red. (4)
25 (3)
26 Component of an electrolyte. (3)
27 You and 1 are interrupted by
nothing but misery. (3)
28— Taint in tins. (4)
29 Sack between five and fifty of
the spring. (6)
32 Maid of the Restless Mountain?
(3)
33 Coward time ."or the present. (4)
36 —Ring Jules at last for those who
_ 0 2re too finicky and too tidy. (8)
38—Behold the French wife of Alfio
m Cavalleria Rusticana.” (4)
swallows the donkey
master among the colored folk
back in an Oriental country. (5)
42 — Girl is a beauty. (8)
43 — A state of mind is backing
destiny. (4)
44 — Normal site for Daniel and
Androcles and suchlike. (4-6)
45 Goddess is mentioned a lot. (4)
Down
1 — Oscar and a rebellious Jack take
a possessive pronoun with a
drawback. (7, 5)
2 Oscar, also associated with
American entertainment, is to
attack the glass with a nail-
driver. (11)
4 Terms describing various people
of means. (5)
5 Stags in trash. (5)
6 Play without a work at an
occupation. (3)
7 It is all right in 32 across to call
forth. (5)
8 — Gould turned brown. (3)
9 Mood of the Federal electorate
cat I have. (10)
12 —“Mother of the Gods” is a bird.
(4)
15 —Lower case full of Lilliputian
landlords. (5, 7)
17 —West Indian batsman with the
ear disorder. (3)
19 — The pronoun burden of my dis-
course. (5)
20 — Conifer leaves to mope by the
sewers. (4-7)
22 —It’s at the other extreme from
Beersheba. (3)
24 —Whose was the salty spouse — it
is destiny. (3)
26—It may be found on a quill
secreted by an octopus. (3)
30 — Vowels matched Miss Gardner.
(3)
31— The girls save up. (4)
34 — Welles or his heir. (5)
35 Andean camel upset everything,
mother. (5)
36 — Fruit-girl I love in secret. (5)
37 Ayres may be square-cut, but
why the preliminary friction? (4)
40 — 8.C.0. commotion. (3)
41 — He drinks nothing in the street.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 265


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M. V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
. „ .
This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
February
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
NEW TOOLS FOR MODERN INDUSTRY...
Modern Engineering Needs New Hands and Eyes
Today the accent is on precision... and this entails processes of manu-
facture so intricate, quantities so minute and measurements so tiny, that
they are invisible to the naked eye.
An amazing new team of instru-
ments, designed to do the jobs the
human hand and eye cannot do,
have gradually evolved, and many
older ones, such as the micro-
meter screw - gauge and other
accurate measuring devices are
finding increasing use in modern
industry.
Physicists, entomologists, chemists
constantly use instruments such as
the microscope as well as more
modern electronic devices. These
are today also the tools of the
engineer. Better performance is
the watchword of modern indus-
try, and better performance (in
terms of longer-lasting, trouble-
free and economical operation
plus greater speed or power) is
the direct result of modern pre-
cision engineering.
Precision instruments, highly de-
veloped human skill, and modern
scientific methods, today guide the
process of manufacture from the
raw material to finished product.
It is this, plus the streamlined
mass-production techniques, that
enables firms like MOFFAT-
VIRTUE LTD. to offer such fine
products at reasonable prices.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE means pre-
cision and quality.
THEY BURNED AND SMASHED MACHINERY
100 YEARS AGO
Hcw times have changed since the early upheavals of the industrial
revolution brought about by the large-scale introduction of machinery
for Rural Industry.
In those times fearful farm hands
violently opposed the introduc-
tion of machines which they
imagined would rob them of their
jobs. They would have been
dumbfounded had they been able
to look into the future, when the
use of machinery had created
more wealth for all than they
dreamed of, and more jobs than
there are men to fill them.
AUSTRALIA FOLLOWS
U.S. LEAD
In the United States, despite a
drop of one and a quarter million
in the number of farm hands
employed in the United States
between 1830 and today. Primary
Production has increased 1 0 to 12
times! The drift of population to
the cities had hastened the trend
to mechanisation, so that pro-
duction increased rather than
dropped.
In Australia, the same trend, lower
rural population percentage,
accompanied by increasing pro-
duction, has been growing. For
many decades, Australian Primary
Producers had made wasteful use
of land. Relatively few sheep
were grazed to many acres, or
continually cropped with low acre-
age yields. Little or no attention
was paid to capital improvements
or labour.
These methods were economical
then only because both land and
labour were plentiful and cheap.
But the rural scene swiftly
changed as time went on.
The hundreds of thousands of
petrol and oil driven engines,
doing innumerable jobs in Country
areas, from driving light and
power plants, to irrigations form
an important part of this mech-
anisation for increased production.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., in developing
their range of Engines, have con-
tributed their part in the produc-
tion effort. Providing economical
power suitable for all types of
users, Moffat-Virtue Engines are
the result of scientific designs,
practical know-how, and skilled
precision engineering.
Built for service, every Moffat-
Virtue engine is a fully checked
and tested unit, manufactured to
the most stringent specifications,
to ensure that the Moffat-Virtue
engine you buy will give unsur-
passed dependability and eco-
nomy, right throughout its long
operative life.
Moffat-Virtue is able to sell its
engines at prices to suit everyone
because its modern facilities are
geared for rapid mass-production.
This enables precision manufac-
ture to be performed at a lower
cost.
The savings effected are passed
on to the buyer, who can at the
same time feel confident in the
quality of the Moffat- Virtue
Engine he buys, not only because
of the precision engineering and
the quality materials used, but
also because every Moffat-Virtue
Product is precision checked and
tested by experts.
It never leaves the factory unless
every part proves perfect in every
detail.
You can get expert advice on your
power problems, and full par-
ticulars of the Moffat-Virtue range
of engines, from any of the dis-
tributors listed below.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE’S RANGE OF
SUPERB ENGINES...
They meet the Need for Dependable,
Economical Farm-Power...
M.V. Petrol and Kero,
Engine
Power-packed efficiency, that is, more effective
working power for less money to buy, and less to
run, is guaranteed when you buy precision-built and
-tested Moffat-Virtue Products. In the MOFFAT-
VIRTUE range there is an engine to suit the needs
of all power-users on the Land.
M.V. Full
Diesel Engine
to maintain. When this is com
bined with absolute reliability
and economy, it means more-ror-
your-money. That s what you g e
when you buy a Moffat-Virtue
engine.
M.V. PETROL & KERO. ENGINES
M.Y. FULL DIESEL ENGINES
Moffat-Virtue Engines range in
size from the 2\ h.p. Petrol
Engines up to the 16 h.p. Full
Diesel.
The latest production methods are
used in the process of manufac-
ture, cutting costs, reducing the
final price, without in any way
lowering the highest standard of
workmanship.
Output of the famous Moffat-
Virtue “V 3” 3 h.p. Engine alone
runs into thousands per year.
These engines find their way into
everything from concrete-mixers
to Fair-Ground Roundabouts, as
well as on to thousands of farms
and pastoral properties.
Moffat-Virtue’s engineers have
designed the M.V. range of
engines specifically to fulfil the
requirements of the man-on-the-
land. Totally enclosed, all their
working parts are protected from
dust and dirt. Rugged and simple
in design, they’re cheap and easy
