

H O
E
sdfsd
OF SEPPELT
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
CHATEAU TANUNDA RRANDY
PRODUCERS OF
• ROYAL PURPLE PARA
• GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
OLD BLADES, OLD SHAVERS
“The Bulletin,” Vol> 75—No. 3878
Wednesday, June 9, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
By courtesy of the Irish Tourist Association.
HOWTH CASTLE IT WAS THAT HAD A HOSPITABLE CUSTOM
FORMING the north side of Dublin Bay is the Howth Peninsula, which
was invaded by the Danish Vikings in the Bth century. Their settlement,
Hoved, is the Howth of today, a popular seaside resort and yachting centre.
It was the port for Dublin, until about the year 1830, when it was super-
seded by Kingstown (now Dun Laoghaire).
In 1177, the peninsula of Howth was conquered by Sir Almeric Tristram,
a Norman noble who later changed his name to St. Lawrence. Here he
established Howth Castle, shown in the accompanying illustration, a battle-
mented building which has recently been restored. Until the extinction of the
title at the death of the fourth Earl and thirtieth Baron in 1909 this fortress
was the seat of the Earls of Howth. For many years the castle doors were
open to all visitors at meal-times, a custom dating fror* 1575, when Grace
O’Malley, the uncrowned queen of the west, was returning from her visit
to Queen Elizabeth I. Annoyed at being refused admittance on the excuse
that the family was at dinner, she abducted the heir of Howth and kept him
prisoner until she extracted from Lord Howth a promise that his castle gates
would be open for ever at mealtimes.
Within the grounds of the castle are gardens planted with rhododendrons
and azaleas that, for their size and beauty, rival those grown in the Himalayas.
Here also are the ruins of 16th-century Corr Castle, and a cromlech which,
according to legend, marks the grave of Aideen, a Queen of Tara.


The Red Page
AN ACTOR'S WAR
Would you say Noel Coward ha
genius? The question hardly seems t
arise, any more than with Congreve
though one would say that “Private Lives
is the 20th-century descendant anc
equivalent of “The Way of the World’
but Congreve didn’t want to be a genius
he wanted to be a gentleman ; and whe
Noel Coward meets a man of undoubted
genius, Sibelius, as he describes the affai
in his new autobiography, Futur
Indefinite (Heinemann), it is as a man-of
the-world, realising that Sibelius may no
know of him, or be impressed if he does
Mr. Coward was making a suspicion
survey of Europe just before World Wa
11, and was brought to meet Sibelius in
Finland by a journalist:
We were received by a startled, bald-
headed gentleman whom I took to be an
aged family-retainer. He led us, without
any marked signs of enthusiasm, on to a
small, trellis-enclosed veranda, and left us
alone After about a quarter-of-an-hour
the bald-headed man reappeared carrying
a tray upon which was a decanter of wine
and a plate of biscuits. He put this on
the table and then, to my surprise, sat
down and looked at us. The silence became
almost unbearable, and my friend muttered
something in Finnish to which the bald-
headed gentleman replied with an exas-
perated nod. It then dawned on me that
this was the great man himself
The rest is too painful to go on with
and ends with a bitter wrangle between
Coward and his journalist-friend on the
way back, and Coward writing an apology
to Sibelius,
who, despite the fact that his seclusion had
been invaded and the peace of his morning
disrupted, had at least received me with
courtesy and given me a biscuit.
But if Coward is a bit wary of genius
in its more recondite manifestations, and
has never seemed to think it worth
while to claim it for himself, it could be
said that he has at least a genius for living,
or acting, or a combination of both.
There was a revealing little note about
him in Pound’s biography of Arnold
Bennett; how, early in his career, he came
up to the old novelist at some function,
besieged by nervousness, and asked
Bennett to see him through; those who
saw him closely during his war-time visit
to Australia saw him at the same nervous
tension, forcing himself along; and in
this new autobiography he is at the
highest pitch of tension throughout; his
stage is the war, and his is, throughout, a
leading-role.
Churchill is a great actor for purposes
of practical statesmanship; but for
Coward to have done anything practical
during the war would have been to debase
the purity of his art and the grtatness of
his accomplishment. Every turn of the
war provided him with a characteristic
role in which he could make the gestures
of riding the lightning and directing the
storm. During the “phony war” he was
persuaded to become head of a secret
British propaganda department in France,
whose working, as he describes it, is at
least as funny as any farce by Evelyn
Waugh ; next, in America, he was the
British milord conferring at dinner with
President Roosevelt; then, at the behest
of his friend Dickie Casey (Mr. Richard
Gardiner Casey, M.P.), he is on his way
to Australia, a great playwright and actor
humbly giving entertainments for the
Red Cross; then he is back in England
planning to play lead in “In Which We
Serve” as a gallant naval captain.
This planning is interrupted by a little
interlude in which he appears at Bow
Street as “The Scoundrel” ; a sympathetic
role of a patriot prosecuted for spending
his own money in his country’s service in
America (from which that other great
dramatic master of the arts of life, George
Bernard Shaw, helped to extricate him by
advising him to plead Not Guilty); and
so on to a goodwill tour of the Middle
East, where, at a Tripoli hospital, he was
as tough as General Patton in his condem-
nation of two crying Brooklyn boys.
Once or twice he acted as King’s Mes-
senger with Embassy bags; but these
were his only blots on his acting-
escutcheon: he would still like to know
what happened to £2OOO he raised for the
Lord Mayor of London’s Relief Fund in
Sydney; his old friend Admiral Vian
almost took him into action in his thought-
less way when Coward was getting
material for “On Which We Serve”;
although the film was based on the story
of the Kelly, Coward’s role was not, he
says, intended to portray his old friend
Dickie (Lord Louis Mountbatten); and
although he knew the proper way to suffer
pain himself, it was the Brooklyn boys,
not Mr. Coward, who had the fractured
arm and bullet-wound in the leg. At every
point Mr. Coward’s participation is at,
the highest level both of life and theatre ;
never is his performance blurred by that
ill-judged realism which can so unbalance
the countries of the mind.
Well, as another famous stage-admiral
said, hardly ever. There was a New Zea-
land woman at a reception to whom he
had to be rude; and he lost his temper
with an officers’-mess which asked him to
sing and then began looking at picture-
postcards. And the rush of water that
overwhelms the captain of the Kelly in
the film might have killed him. Against
the advice of his helpers, he demanded a
test; and the result left them white-faced.
Nor let it be thought that this is written
in sarcasm ; Noel Coward is a remarkable
man; his conduct of the war was a
remarkable feat of poise and adroitness
in difficult situations. In the middle of
it he made a fine film; and during a rest-
period he wrote a comedy in six days:
“Blithe Spirit.” And now he has got a
highly-entertaining book out of it, which
might well have had for its motto;
Honor and shame from no condition rise;
Act well your part; there all the honor lies.
Shangri-La-la
Tibet. Ah, Tibet! Remote, beautiful,
romantic Tibet. As George N. Patterson
says in Tibetan Journey (Faber):
I had read various reports of the high
incidence of venereal disease in Tibet, some
figures quoted being as high as 90 per cent.
I was rather hesitant about accepting such
a percentage at first, but during my travels
I found that, as far as any generalisation
can .be made on Tibet, the figure was
probably correct. In many areas through-
out Kham —the largest and most populous
province in Tibet —I found places in which
it was safe to quote a hundred per cent,
incidence.
It sounds a just-about perfect place
from which to set out on a journey to
somewhere else. Patterson sets out for
India, over almost impossible ways ; a
route hitherto untravelled by a European.
Not, however, to escape: he and another
are in Tibet as freelance missioning medi-
coes, or medicoing missionaries, regard-
ing themselves as an absolute necessity
in a country where the only medicines
are “mud, manure and muttered incanta-
tions.” They have run out of supplies,
and Patterson goes off on his fierce —and
fiercely angry—journey to get some more
before the rains come and the rivers
flood. Of himself, Patterson says:
I wanted a cause for which I might die.
My search for such a cause brought me
into touch with two persons who offered
me all that my youth demanded —Jesus
Christ and Karl Marx. I was faced with
the problem of my generation and of all
time —Christ’s “Submit and be saved” or
Marx’s “Defy and be damned.” I chose
the former. Not the impotent Christ of a
vitiated Christendom but the conquering
Christ who triumphs in men and in nations,
in life and in death.
He wandered a while ; and so to Tibet,
where he found “the most potent medi-
cine was the feces and urine of the
priests—the higher the priest, the more
potent and expensive the ‘medicine’.”
There, “even simple remedies and treat-
ment came with the impact of the miracu-
lous” :
So that I had no sooner arrived at a
place than people began flocking in from
several days’ journey away in the moun-
tains, some almost dead already, some re-
quiring careful hospitalisation, all victims
of a hellish superstition that damned their
bodies and souls to hell without an oppor-
tunity of relief to either —while ten-thousand
miles away in comfortable chairs beside
comfortable fires men and women read of
the illusory stupidities and an impossible
Shangri-La and rose to condemn indig-
nantly the interference of missionaries with
a happy, carefree race.
That gives part of the Patterson self-
portrait. For the rest of the portrait:
A professional, apparently openly-practis-
ing bandit envies Patterson his evidently
Phar-Lappian horse; Patterson mounts
his grey Phar Lap and races the bandit’s
horse a mile to decide whether the bandit
is or isn’t to take the grey off him.
Presumably the race was over rough go-
ing: there was another horse besides the
bandit’s in it: they got a break of “a
good hundred yards” on him, and he
licked ’em by fifteen seconds, which con-
clusive margin is made none the less
miraculous (unless the others stopped for
a feed of grass on the way) by the dwell-
ing at the start and by Patterson’s con-
soling of the bandit afterwards: “Never
mind, it was not really a mile—a little
under it —and rough at that.” Rough’s
right; or maybe the timing of the race
was a shade rough; the grey, over that
presumed sort of going (weight unstated),
carved it out in “one minute twenty-seven
seconds.” Silver Phantom wouldn’t see
the way he went.
Still, this is not a Turf calendar; it’s
a traveller’s tale, which its author calls
“a challenge”: “I submit this as my
initial challenge to my generation”; and
he as good as promises something bigger
and better ; which might be rather neces-
sary if he’s to have an effect on that
generation anyway comparable to the
effect his horse had on the bandit.
Pompadour
Nancy Mitford {The Pursuit of Love,
Love in a Cold Climate) has written a
deliciously gossipy biography, Madame
de Pompadour (Hamish Hamilton). The
19th century was most unkind to this
enchanting woman, of whom Carlyle,
quoted by Miss Mitford, said: “High
rouged, unfortunate female of whom it
is not proper to speak without necessity.”
Pompadour has been blamed for much
of the mismanagement of France under
Louis XV, and perhaps the truth of her
political meddlings lies somewhere be-
tween Miss Mitford’s rather airy dis*
missal of their importance and the con-
servative historical view that but for
Pompadour many of France’s disasters
mightn’t have been so calamitous.
The author has made rich and varied
selections from many memoirs, letters
and diaries written by Pompadour’s con-
temporaries, in addition to the use of
weightier works of reference. There are
fascinating accounts of life at Versailles ;
the wonderful private theatre Pompadour
and her friends conducted; her circle of
friends, who included many of France’s
best-known authors, artists and scientists.
Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson, as she was
born, was beautiful, highly-gifted, well-
educated, intelligent, blessed with perfect
taste. Under her patronage all the arts
for which France is famous flourished.
When she made a suggestion to an archi-
tect, an engraver of jewels, a theatrical-
producer, a painter or a manager of a
china-factory, she knew what she was
talking about and her ideas were
respected. She seems to have possessed,
too, a remarkable understanding of can-
tankerous literary celebrities: one of the
brightest threads woven into this account
is that of her friendship with Voltaire.
For twenty years, she held the interest
and love of Louis, in spite of the fact
(which no one regretted more than she
did) that physically she was not strong
and that she found her temperament
inadequate to his amorous demands. In
his protocol-ridden court she supplied a
seasoning of bourgeois honesty, provid-
ing for him an atmosphere of cosy family
security within that artificial community.
Not the least of her triumphs was in
winning the respect of Louis’s wife,
Maria.
There are scores of capital anecdotes,
plenty of acid comment; the style is
airy, sometimes almost arch, but does
not pall. **
THE ANCHOR
Know, then, the only joy of an anchor—
to be strong,
Have iron arm®, and be long
Immersed holding a cable and ship
Like an iron kite in the blue, deep
Waters of the port. Know, then* the
anguish
Of its cross-.—to lie as stone, while flesh
Hovers and flutters like leaves, and love
Bites, in a barnacle, a red groove
Into its flukes. To be “the pick,”
In common talk, thrown over and sick
On the dirty bottom with bottle® and tins:
An anchor in all its servitude, its sins
Flaking off in rust like a scurvy,
Straining to hold a city in heaven—-cause
topsy-turvy.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT
More Penguins
Latest covey of Penguins includes
some interesting revivals, among them
Dostoevsky’s The Possessed, in a new
translation by David Magarshack, under
the title of The Devils. This may be a
more accurate translation of the Russian,
but it isn’t as good a description of the con-
tents of Dostoevsky’s colossal opus, with
its scores and scores of characters drawn
from a provincial city, a pack of ineffec-
tuals engaged in alleged revolutionary
activities and infected with hallucinations
ranging from delusions about their own
political importance to sexual aberrations.
The people in Dostoevsky’s book aren’t
devils; they are just ordinary simple
people possessed by this, that or another
senseless notion ; and if the general carn-
age at the finish has rather a touch of
melodrama it is no more so than “Ham-
let,” and Dostoevsky was such an acute
observer that he makes his rambling story
live just as well as Shakspeare did his
poetic drama.
A first-rate volume in the science series
is Animals and Men, by David Katz, a
German psychologist who made such dis-
concerting comparisons between the lower
and the higher mammals that the Nazis
removed him from his professorship at
Rostock'; he died in England.
Katz takes the case of Clever Hans ana
other horses which some well-intentioned
Germans “educated” to the point where
they could answer almost any question
put to them, could extract in their heads
square-roots, cube-roots and even fourth-
roots and so on, and shows that the
animals were not using the faculty of
reason but exercising a natural instinct,
unobserved by their educators, who were
being fooled by their own lack of observa-
tion and were actually unconsciously giv-
ing them the answers.
It is easy to understand why the Nazis
didn’t like Herr Katz. Among the
generalisations he makes from a great
mass of observed cases is that we cannot
deny that animals have intelligence, but
man alone has the gift of reason; that
animals are endowed with a natural har-
mony for which man has to struggle,
being divided in his very nature. If man
complies with the demands of morality
he must suppress his natural impulses,
which leads to conflict. His only hope is
by the way of reason, not emotion, where-
as the only hope for a dictator is by way
of the emotions.
The Healing Knife, by George Sava, is
the first book of the Russian exile who
struggled to become a surgeon during the
Revolution and ended by making a career
for himself in England (he once visited
Australia). Seven Famous One-Act Plays
by modern writers can be contrasted with
the Five Plays by Moiiere and the
Richard /// of Shakspeare, in which, fol-
lowing the principles of the Penguin
Shakspeare, the editor has based his text
solely on one original—the Folio text—
instead of amalgamating various versions,
as often done. Some of the lines are un-
familiar, but, since they are nearer to
those used in the Bard’s own playhouse,
we would ha.ve to conclude that they were
nearer to the taste of Shakspeare, and who
are we to say that our taste is better?
Rex Warner supplies another of his
rewritings of Greek myth in Greeks and
Trojans, Mid very well he does it. Mark
Twain’s The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn is amongst the Puffins, and amongst
the Pelicans are two volumes of the late
Professor W. G. de Burgh’s The Legacy
of the Ancient World, in which he
learnedly, but lucidly, describes the influ-
ences in Western life of Jewish, Greek and
Roman notions about law, belief and
liberty.
Uses and Abuses of Psychology is by a
psychologist, H. J. Eysenck, who is criti-
cal of psychoanalysis, marriage reformers,
public-opinion polls and intelligence tests,
and gives amusing examples.
M. G. S.
Three Historical Romances
World events have moved so rapidly in
the last two decades that a novel by
Ursula Bloom dealing with the life of Eva
Braun, Hitler’s Eva (Hutchinson), can
only be regarded as “historical.” It
makes no claim for classification as a
“biographical novel.” The author frankly
states that many of the characters (among
them several of basic importance to the
plot) are imaginary, as are many of the
happenings. The story as told is pure
romance, with Eva, an ambitious and
lovely girl from a Bavarian village, for
heroine. The treatment is superficial and
not particularly convincing.
Also based on fact, but with more
claims to scholarship, is Evelyn Anthony’s
Curse Not the King (Museum Press). This
author, too, explains where she has
altered or invented situations to accord
with her own interpretation of the life of
her hero, Catherine the Great’s son, Paul.
Miss Anthony manages during the course
of a well-told and fast-moving book to
show this ill-fated Tsar as a more intelli-
gent and likeable man than he is usually
rated by historians. Catherine, of course,
is the villainess. She hated this son whose
father, Peter, was murdered at her insti-
gation—if Peter was, in fact, Paul’s
father. The son’s existence was a con-
tinual threat to Catherine’s throne —he
resented his mother’s rule and her flaunted
immorality, while she interfered with his
life and schemed against him. Catherine
intended that Paul’s son, Alexander,
should succeed at her death, but Paul
did reign briefly, hating his son, bitter
and suspicious, with a lifetime of snub-
bing, unhappiness and betrayed love to
remember. Nevertheless, for a very ugly
and unbalanced man Patsfl is shown to
have had several love affairs (within and
without wedlock) of a sufficiently glamor-
ous nature to make entertaining reading.
Magdalen King-Hall’s Venetian Bride
(Peter Davies) is unashamedly fiction.
The hero, an impoverished young Irish
nobleman, seeks and eventually finds true
love and fortune in his native land, in
France and Italy. The period is 18th cen-
tury, the style unpretentious and lightly
agreeable.


:m t • ‘Va
■
: '• .v
<£
IS
■■- ■ «K; ; ;.:
.- •: •••- ••• •
immm'
Wi
*V i
I
■I
:
K&
■ ■
% s
WP*”
_ HS ■ I
Your windows are the
background of your furnishings
And nothing is more beautiful than Venetian blinds. Ask a friend where to buy the best Venetians;
9 times out of 10 the answer will be “Anthony Horderns’, of course.” We make up Venetians to
any size to fit any window. Our “Hordura” metal lath blinds are chip-proof in cream, pink, blue,
green, ivory, 5 other pastels. Wooden blinds with lathes of %nadian cedar in any colour scheme.
6/11 sq ft. Min. 12 sq. ft. per blind.
VWVfV-
C 3
. y.
~ ‘"'- -^t— 1 -*:
' ----- ' ■
*4s S&
1 "> /
•^sr^r
*ll
li
%
f::Zi
■
%
-■•
HOLLAND BLINDS in the new colours;
Slate Grey, Jade Green, Sand and Red, as well
as Beige and Brown. Ours is only the best
quality Scotch Holland. We call at your home,
give advice on blinds, measure for any you
should want. Anywhere in the Metropolitan Area.
CANVAS BLINDS . Any type canvas you
choose we’ll make up in either Florentine or plain
drop styles. Plain stripes, gay multhstripes ... in
either woven canvas or the famous Brella proofed
canvas. ’Phone or write to'day if you want any
type of canvas blind in your home.
Send for our free booklet on Minds.
Experts prepared this booklet that shows you just how to measure
for curtains and blinds. If you live out of town, it s invaluable
when ordering furnishings for your windows. Send for yours to'day.
man*.
■ :-•
V—-
Billowing festoons for your prettiest door.
Fit any door from 2ft. 6in. to 2ft. lOin.
wide and up to 6ft. lOin. high. Cream
or ivory satin. Festoons are 69/6 each.
nrr*
P
k
JSC
\
Crossover Curtains in plain cream 60in.
voile. Also available in white, blue,
pink, lemon, green. Two or three
swag styles.
3ft. Gin. 4ft. Gin. 6ft.
Two swag .. 63/- 75/- 99/6
Three swag .. 75/- 99/6 135/-
m
4m*. ~ 7
m m3£L
Kg?
t.. ••
r
v
Shower Curtains feature the new plastic
patterns, the new colours. Fish, swans,
yachts and Spanish galleons. Crossover
or. Dutch sets can be made in same
material'.
Shower Curtains:
6ft. x 3ft., 13/11; 6ft. x 6ft., 27/6.
Crossovers:
3ft. 6in., 25/-; 4ft. 6in., 37/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Dutch:
3ft. 6in„ 39/6; 4ft. 6in., 45/-; 6ft., 55/-.
a "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
isithonj Horderns
SSSc
■SS
BLINDS, CURTAINS, THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401.
MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 9, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3878
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings o opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE YEARS AHEAD
May 29 was perhaps a more crucial date in Australia’s
history than most people realised. It was a halting-
point at which the nation had to decide whether it was
to continue in the path of stability and solid develop-
ment or whether it wished to embark on a policy of
reckless experiment which might set it back 10 or 20
years. National development is not a thing to be
thought of on short-term lines. Most of the factors
on which it is based are of slow growth, taking years
to come to fruition. National disaster, on the other
hand, can be achieved with very little effort and in a
remarkably short space of time if irresponsible men are
given their heads.
The Government’s strongest case for being
allowed to retain control of the Treasury was that it
could point to a stabilised economy in contrast with
the galloping inflation of a short time back, and
could offer every prospect that this condition would
continue ; its greatest danger was that the electors
might take all this as a matter of course and accept
at face-value Dr. Evatt’s promise of Utopia on time-
payment with immediate delivery, interest-free, no
deposit and purely nominal instalments. It isn’t only
on the-public highway that men in a hurry are a
menace to their fellows.
That living-costs have for the present been
stabilised there can be no dispute; there has been no
appreciable change in the C-series index-number since
September, 1953. The “Labor” movement has tacitly
admitted the fact by dropping its cry for the restora-
tion or quarterly adjustments and concentrating on
the margin claims. The Government’s task now is to
hold the stability that has been achieved and to direct
its policy towards the encouragement of increased
production from which alone higher living-standards
can be secured.
The position today is very different from that
which faced the incoming Government in 1949, when
shortages, blackouts, industrial troubles, and black-
markets were, the legacy of the war and of the
deliberate attempts of the “Labor” Government to
perpetuate wiar-time controls and restrictions in time
of peace. For 18 months—until the double-dissolution
election it was frustrated by a hostile- Senate in its
attempts to carry out the promises on which it had been
elected. In that period, too, came the beginning of the
Korean war, compelling a resumption of defence expen-
diture on the grand scale, and the sky-high jump in
wool prices which set in train a wave of inflation and
a flood of imports which forced the Government to
take the financial measures which made it so unpopular.
For a time the Government was the scapegoat and
whipping-boy for every disgruntled section in the
community, and it is to its credit that it stuck to its
policy in the face of all the abpse that was hurled
at it. From the first it had held that the elimination
of the coal-shortage was the key to the whole problem
of increased production ; that, given adequate coal
and a reduction in petty industrial disputes the
shortages in other industries would be overcome almost
automatically. Subsidies on imported coal (as a
temporary measure), extension of opencuts and
assistance in financing the mechanisation of mines were
the means adopted for solution of the first problem;
industrial peace was encouraged by giving full support
to the Arbitration Court, by adopting a strong attitude
on the waterfront and helping unions to rid themselves
of Communist domination by court-conducted secret
ballots.
The success of these moves was such that, as the
Prime Minister was able to point out in his policy-
speech, manufacturing reached a peak level in 1951,
and despite the recession of 1952, which Dr. Evatt
tried to .magnify into a major depression, that peak
was again reached by the end of 1953. Loss of work
by industrial disputes is down to less than half a day
a year per man employed ; coal production is no longer
a problem; blackouts have been eliminated ; there is
no unemployment; shortages are a thing of the past;
pig-iron and steel production is at a record level.
Coal, iron and steel are the basic materials on
which development is built, but there are other projects,
begun in the last few years, but not yet at the stage
where they can contribute to national progress. During
the life of the new Parliament some, at least, of these
long-term undertakings will begin to repay something
or the wealth and work that has been expended on
them. Then there is the oil at Exmouth Gulf —
n °L y et discovered in commercial quantities, but of
sumexent promise to attract overseas capital, which
haq been frightened off by Chifley bank-nationalisation.
Oil-refining, too, is to become a big industry in three
States, to the strengthening of the national economy.
In a way the Snowy Mountains scheme epitomises
the whole problem of long-term development. For
five years it has been absorbing money and manpower
at an increasing rate, and it will go on doing so for
many years to come. However, the first power from
it is expected to be available before the end of this year,
and the Prime Minister was able to say last month that
“by 1959 it will have capacity to supply as much
electricity as either Bunnerong or Yallourn, and as
much water for irrigation as is now available to the
entire Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area.” Even then
the scheme will still be a considerable way from
completion.
Australia’s main needs today are stable Govern-
ment and increased production—bearing in mind the
unavoidable need still to divert a huge part of the
national income to defence. A growing population
necessitates increased overall production merely to
maintain existing living standards; a higher standard
can be realised only by a greater per capita output.
This, in the existing conditions of a 40-hour week,
plus high overtime and penalty rates, plus social
services on the present scale —which must in some way
be paid for out of current income—can be achieved
only by greater individual effort or by the more
efficient utilisation of resources.
Greater individual effort does not imply— as some
propagandists would have the wage-earner believe—
slave-driving or sweated labor. It merely means a
greater awareness throughout the whole community
that the purpose of work is not merely to secure a pay-
envelope, but to produce goods or perform a sei*vice,
and that only by producing more goods or performing
more or better services can higher wages be
economically justified.
The "Labor" Party That Isn't
Heads down and bathed in perspiration, the “Labor”
party is plodding its way back to the caucus-room to
face election aftermaths. Already its friends are sidling
away from it. Sydney supporters who were rumoured
to be seeing televisions of greatness in their ecstacy
became dumb and even a little censorious overnight.
And the cliques and coteries which kissed in public
have started away from each other with preliminary
snarls before beginning the routine work of stabbing
each other in the back.
There are sections of the “Labor” party which
hate Mr. Menzies with a mortal hate; 'but none that
dislike him more than some of them dislike their
colleagues in Socialism,
The party as a whole would have been better
off if it had suffered a resounding defeat, for then its
leadership might have been down and the
hunting-pack of the caucus-room could have torn up its
scapegoats with some show of righteous indignation.
But victory seemed so near and the effort to win it was
so desperate and unscrupulous that defeat has no
clear implications.
All the leaders of “Labor” are back, with slightly
improved majorities over last election —Ward, Evatt
and Calwell —and there are a couple of new potential
Caesars in Nelson Lemmon and Norman Makin. But
all have come back smeared with the same odor from
which all real followers of the class-war shy away like
mares from a camel—the smell of “capitalist” policies ;
policies burgled from platforms which “Labor” has
long been pledged to overthrow at the first opportunity.
They are individually now tied to these policies, and
their State branches and Federal Executive are not,
being dyed-in-the-wool Socialists and' some of them
bitterly eager to know where, among “Labor” planks,
their mouthpieces found their plans for the next
Parliament. Some are even asking whether they
found them in the same place in which they found the
obviously large sums that they had to spend on
newspaper and other advertising, in the campaign far
more lavish than that of the Liberal party.
Normally after a defeat “Labor” picks up the
pieces with cries of sympathy from the big unions ; but
the “Labor” leaders have no longer any friends among
the unions, only allies. Few of them are union men
themselves in the ordinary sense of the word. The
new range of salaries has taken all of them who are
not already opulent out of the working-man class as it
is understood in the “Labor” party, just as much as
their ideas have done. It is not merely the case that
there will be no help from outside in healing the
sores and bruises left by the fray, but that there are so
many pieces that nobody will want to pick up that
“Labor’s” forum is littered with unwanted junk, some
of it highly fissionable.
The Communist issue was not a very strong issue
in the election campaign, but it will now become one
in the internals of “Labor,” the party being just as
much subject to pressure-groups as any Liberal Gov-
ernment. And in this instance the pressure-groups on
both sides are strong and ravenous. For the Federal
A.L.P. to adopt the industrial-groups as an official
political entity would be to antagonise those Left-wing
unions which provided the fuel that drove Dr. Evatt
and his lieutenants when they opposed the Menzies
Government’s amendments to the Commonwealth
Arbitration Act to give the rank-and-file a chance of
ousting their Communist bosses from union offices. On
the other hand, not to give some strong token of
approval or affection at the right moment to Mr.
Laurie Short, of the Federated Ironworkers, or to the
Clerks or A.W.U, would prove suicidal —especially if
the particular pressure-group involved happened to
have contributed or lent generously to the campaign
fund. The days of walking the tight-rope on the
industrial-group question have gone.
There is, however, a very much bigger matter which
it would need all the ingenuity of a really united
“Labor” party to face, and that is the one which has
been posed to the members of A.L.P. branches as to
whether the aggregation of lawyers, publicans, bankers,
adventurous colonels, affluent graziers and prawn-
sellers who form “Labor’s” representation in the
Federal House are still a “Labor” party at all.
That is really the whole issue. The “Labor” party
by its own definition, as set out in its platforms.
Federal and State, has only one objective, one excuse
for its existence —socialisation. It exists to bring
Socialism about through nationalisation of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange. There is a
stern pledge to carry out the platform which
every member is supposed to sign, and obey
under pain of summary expulsion from the move-
ment. But it has not been carried out in the recent
election or the recent Parliament. “Labor’s” outward
programme in the past few months has ceased to be
Socialist. It has been that of a party which seeks to
carry out the Liberal party’s social programme, but
without caution and with an unscrupulous disregard
for the realities of finance, a matter upon which Dr.
Evatt in particular has delightfully ludicrous and
fluid ideas which at one time even led him to
praise the views of the Douglas-crediters. But
his social policy has been obtained by ascertaining
what the Liberal-CJP. was ready to offer, and then
promising the same things on a grander and more
lavish scale and in quicker time.
It may be starting to dawn on some unions that
they do not need this sort of a “Labor” party. It is
only a hindrance to them, a superfluous and indirect
pipeline. The A.C.T.U., for instance," finds it just as
easy to get on proper terms with a Liberal Govern-
ment as it does with a “Labor” Government; perhaps
easier, since Liberal Governments are less likely to be
hampered in action by extremists and rat-bags and
borderline-Leftists. The A.C.T.U., in fact, has got on
very well indeed with the present Administration.
And the greatest problem which the Federal
“Labor” caucus now has to face is how it can justify
its continued existence. How does it, as a political
party, earn its very lavish keep? It is not a “Labor”
party any more. It is only a bunch of political
adventurers wearing “Labor’s” cast-off clothes as a
camouflage. And this fact increasing numbers of its
followers know.
The “Labor” party has outgrown its ideals, its
usefulness, its reason to exist.
"In My Time —the Deluge?"
D.J.K.”: The Report on the Indian Census for 1951
shows a pretty grim picture of the population problem.
India’s population in 1951 was estimated at 360
million ; the figure is put at 410 million for 1961, rising
to 460 million in 1971. According to the report the
alternatives which confront India are “catastrophe”
on one hand and a “near-miracle” on the other.
“Catastrophe” is described in terms of famine and
disease, while the “near-miracle” is a widespread and
voluntary acceptance of birth-control.
Legislative support for birth-control has been
given by the Indian Congress, and this would appear
to be in keeping with the conclusions of the .Census
Commissioner, which were: “One, that we cannot
grow as much food as we shall need if we go on
increasing in numbers as we do. The other, that if we
do not grow more food we must eat less food. What
follows? That starvation is our lot? No. It follows
that we should make up our mind that we shall not
go on increasing in numbers as we do.”
Possibly the Indian census report may revive old
Malthusian arguments; if it does those who involve
themselves would do well to consider the entire Asian
population problem. Taking the Indian census report
as a basis, and supplementing it with the best demo-
graphic information available, these figures emerge
for other Asian countries;
Country Population in Millions
1951 1961 1971
Pakistan .. .. 76 81 87
China 350 375 400
Japan 83 89 100
S.-E. Asia and Oceania 230 285 350
No one save a mental hermit can escape the
tremendous significance of Australia’s population dis-
parity with Asia. The immediate problem is one of
food. Asian countries are fortuntely making belated
efforts to increase their food-production, and are being
assisted by the agencies of the Colombo Plan.
Superimposed on the food and population problem
of Asian countries is that of “nationalism.” The events
in- Indo-China and Malaya are no mere phenomena of
our time. They fit into a plan evolved by Marxists a
century ago. Lenin believed that “the shortest route
to London and Paris is through Peking”—so do
Malenkov and the host of Communist cutthroats who
do his bidding in Asian countries. Western
colonialism is moving quickly out of Asia. The tragic
paradox is that it is being replaced by Soviet
imperialism, which for sheer barbarism and gross
wickedness is unsurpassed.
If Australians, and for that matter the peoples
of the West, turn their backs upon the pressing problems
of Asia which are being so obviously exacerbated by
Moscow agents, then they turn their backs on the most
orofound issue of their dav.


INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
“Now, where’s the next trouble-spot, Dick?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Sheep Show
The Sheep Show opened in Sydney
quietly, almost unobtrusively ; the sales
finish tomorrow. It was more like a
picnic-race meeting than what, in essence,
it is: a parade of a great deal of the
wealth and history of Australia.
As a spectacle, certainly, it lacks the
boom and bustle and color of the Royal
Easter Show. There was a fair amount
of drinking in the booths, keen discussion
in the pens by men' with overalls pulled
over good suits, keen feminine interest
in the mannequin parade. But everything
was in a minor key. And it was raining.
Not that the rain was likely to depress
a majority of those in attendance. The
country, generally, needed it. News of
falls 'in such places as Cooma, the New
England and districts west must have
delighted individual exhibitors, and was
a good omen for all. But the rain, and
the cold, probably kept a few Sydney
sightseers away.
Exhibitors were mainly from N.S.W.,
some from Victoria; one, who took a
second (to the reserve champion) with a
strong-wool Merino ram, from South
Australia. A Charleville (Q.) stud was
also represented. But stud sheep-breeding
is a close-knit business, famous lines exert-
ing an influence all over the Common-
wealth. It was a long way from being
a one-State show.
Merryville (Yass, N.S.W.) won both
the Stonehaven Cup and the grand
championship for Merino ram —the blue-
ribbon events so far as the Merino is
concerned. Individual honors aside, one
of the most impressive things about the
show is the growing strength of the
small-graziers’ section. Another is the
strength of some of the British breeds:
a pointer to tendencies in the economy,
closely bound to pasture-improvement
and smaller holdings.
The future for wool seems bright
enough, with manufacturers of synthetics
modifying some of their earlier claims. It
appears plain, now, that there is room for
both, in combinations for cheaper tex-
tiles: and pure woollen cloth will prob-
ably always have a superior value. The
question of the ban on export of Merinos
will probably keep coming up from time
to time, and, with artificial insemination
a practical technique, it may prove diffi-
cult to enforce.
In the meantime, the industry has such
importance that the modesty of its annual
shopwindow is surprising. Fundament-
ally, the purpose of the Sheep Show is
achieved without great need for propa-
ganda. Still, a little publicity wouldn’t
hurt either the industry or the public.
Explosion-point
Mr. Dulles, in Washington, on the day
day that the Australian Cabinet decided
to send Mr. Casey to Geneva, said that
the situation in Indo-China was fraught
with danger, not only to the people
immediately concerned but to the United
States and the Pacific area.
He accused the Chinese and the Soviet
Union of supplying increasing quantities
of arms to the Vietminhese, and added:
The rulers of Communist China train
and equip in China the troops of their
puppet Ho Chih-minh. They supply these
troops with large quantities of artillery
and ammunition made in Soviet-bloc
countries. They supply military and
technical guidance in the staff section of
the Vietminh Army at divisional level and
in specialised units—signals, engineering,
artillery and transport. The plan is not
only to dominate Indo-China but to
dominate all of South-East Asia the
threat directly at the moment is not only
to Indo-China States but to friendly
countries such as Siam, Burma, Malaya,
Indonesia, the Philippines, Australia and
New Zealand.
Relationships between the United
States and China are very near explosion-
point ; and explosion could mean world
war. For the past two months the
American statements on Peking’s policies
have been stark and plain beyond mis-
understanding. Late in April the Ameri-
cans explained, for instance, why they
refused to recognise Communist China in
terms in which no flavor of diplomacy
was noticeable. They gave ten reasons.
China’s repeated expressions of con-
tempt for U.N.O. and its policies, its
support of aggression in Korea and Indo-
China, its seizure of defenceless Tibet,
its aid and comfort to Communist
guerillas in Malaya and elsewhere, its
detention of 34 U.S. nationals under bar-
barous conditions without trial or charges
being openly laid against them were some
of the grounds put forward, apart from
Mao’s implication in Moscow’s plans for
world revolution.
The seriousness of the situation is
clear from the level of the five-Power
military talks taking place at Washing-
ton, at which the U.K. is represented by
its Chief of the General Staff (General
John Harding), U.S. by its Chief of Naval
Operations (Admiral Carney), Australia
and N.Z. by their Chiefs-of-Staff and
France by its representative on the
Nato standing-group at Washington. The
talks are being held in great secrecy.
The spirit in which the debate is likely
to be conducted is illustrated by an inter-
view with Admiral Carney, the American
representative. He said that certain
alternatives faced the whole free world
and not merely America —to do nothing
and let Communist nature take its course,
to rush round plugging the dyke, and to
take measures to lower the pressure
against the dyke by generalised action.
He said that it was as obvious
as the pages of history that it
Was only a matter of time, as
matters were going, before the free world
in South-East Asia would be blanketed
behind the Iron Curtain; that the West
could not close its eyes to arithmetic,
and that every additional gain of popu-
lation or territory by Communism meant
a corresponding subtraction from the
total strength of the free world.
No doubt talk at the Washington con-
ference will be frank, in consonance
with the tune played in Paris, where the
Ministry is beginning to call up 100,000
young conscripts who were not due to
be called up until November at the
earliest. At the nioment 20,000 men are
to be flown to Hanoi to save the Red
River delta and a base for future opera-
tions.
It seems certain, however, that if the
Geneva Conference fails, France will
have to give up Indo-China unless it has
world help—-which could be of little avail
at this juncture. Before it could be
organised the place would be fully over-
run.
The Senate Position
During the election campaign very
little mention was made of the Senate,
although both sides knew quite well that
if “Labor” won it would be faced with
the problem of a hostile Senate, the
Liberal-Country-party coalition having
emerged from last year’s poll with a
narrow majority of 31-29. The Govern-
ment’s victory on May 29 took the
Senate problem off Dr, Evatt’s shoulders,
but left it with Mr. Menzies. Owing to
circumstances for which the Constitution,
the Evatt-Calwell system of half-baked
proportional-representation and the 1951
double-dissolution are jointly responsible
the Government can count on a Senate
majority for only two years of its three-
year term.
Last year’s separate Senate election
was necessitated by the clause in the
Constitution which provides that the
terms of Senators shall be regarded as
beginning 6n the first day of July preced-
ing the election. The general election
after the double-dissolution was held on
April 28, 1951, and although the terms
of M.H.R.’s were regarded as beginning
on that date, those of the Senators were
dated back to July 1, 1950. Another
election—for half the Senate—had there-
fore to be held before June 30, 1953. It
was held on May 9. The result of all
this is shown in the following table:
Govt. Senators. “Xiabor” Senators.
Term Expiring: Term Expiring;
. 30/6/-56. 30/6/’59. 30/6/’56. 3«/6/’59.
N.S.W. 3 3 5 3 3 5
Victoria 3 3 4 3 3 6
Q'land 3 3 6 3 3 4 .
S.A. 3 3 5 3 3 5
W.A. 3 3 5 3 8 5
Tas. 4 3 6 13 4
18 13 31 18 17 29
From this it will be seen that the Gov-
ernment would have to win every State
in 1956 to retain control of the Senate —
and this has never been done by any
party. Even if it lost only one State the
Parliament would be deadlocked, as that
would make the numbers 30-30 and the
Constitution provides that where the
voting is equal the motion is decided in
the negative. A 30-30 Senate was only
averted by a hair’s-breadth in 1951 and
again last year; it is a threat that will
crop up again and again if the present
system of proportional-representation is
retained. For the moment “Labor” is
probably inclined to regard this as the
Government’s problem, but if its leaders
are farsighted they will realise that it is
theirs, too. In 1959 they would be in the
position of having more Senators retir-
ing than they could hope to replace.
In the long run deadlocks benefit no
party.
In his policy-speech Mr. Menzies spoke
of an all-party committee of both Houses
charged with the task of reviewing the
■working of the Constitution and making
recommendations for its amendment.
Senate-reform should be one of the first
subjects on the committee’s list. A
change in the system of voting could be
effected by the Government without
alteration of the Constitution, but what
is really wanted is a complete overhaul
of the set-up.
Due for a Rise?
The ostentatious spirit of non-partyism
which induced the Cahill Government to
elevate Mr. John Bruxner, son of the
leader of the N. S, Wales State Country
party, to the District Court Bench —a
splendid appointment, let it be emphasised
—did not reap its desired reward for
virtue and impartiality.
The public is cynically looking for
motives, and unkindly asked whether the
appointment is to be used as a stopper
to Opposition criticism of appointments
of Mr. Clive Evatt to the Supreme Court
Bench and Mr. Billy Sheahan to the Dis-
trict Court Bench, which some people
believe may be imminent.
The elevation of Solomon in all his
glory could not stifle the outcry which
will ensue if Mr. Cahill dares to put those
two discredited politicians on the Bench
from which Australians are tried for
their lives and liberties. If he got away
with it the next move would probably be
Cahill for State Governor.
State Gambles
Several “Labor” Premiers are at pre-
sent showing keen interest in the future
of their Governments’ official or semi-
official gambles, Mr. Cain’s Tatt.’s,
seduced away from Mr. Cosgrove’s State
after half a century of almost-wedded
bliss, is about to open for business at
the new address, and its Hobart successor
has already got away to a flying start,
offering bigger prizes than the original
firm. Agents for the Hobart “consulta-
tion” have apparently been operating
in Victoria, bringing rebukes from Mr.
Cain’s Ministers, who insist that the only
legitimate sweep in Victoria is their own
foster-child, which can produce a brand-
new Act of Parliament to prove its
legitimacy.
Mr. Cosgrove’s reply to that is some-
thing to the effect that under the Consti-
tution trade and commerce between the
States are supposed to be absolutely free,
though he hasn’t made it clear whether
he intends to make the matter the sub-
ject of an appeal to the High Court or
Privy Council. Queensland’s Mr. Gair
has intimated that if Hobart tickets are
to sell in Queensland he’ll expect recip-
rocity for Casket-tickets in Tasmania.
Mr. Cahill hasn’t been heard from yet,
though Mr. Cosgrove’s application-forms
can be obtained at some Sydney clubs.
From Mr. Hawke in Perth there is also
silence.
Just what the Fathers of the Consti-
tution would have thought of sweepstakes
being classified as trade and commerce is
not difficult to imagine. In their day
State gambles were confined to Spain,
Italy and Spanish-American countries —
but that was before “Labor” Govern-
ments set out to reform the social system
of Australia.
Dr. Batty, Bishop of Newcastle,
addressing the annual synod of his diocese
last week, spoke trenchantly against
Government encouragement of lotteries.
Among other things, he said:
I cannot see how Labor Governments
can reconcile the idea of public lotteries
offering huge cash prizes with their pro-
fessed political principles. They are
politically opposed to capitalism, yet they
use a system which makes fresh capi-
talists every week.
That sums it up rather well. There is no
more harm in the average person’s buying
a lottery-ticket than there is in his having
a glass of beer. But for a Socialist Gov-
ernment to conduct a State lottery is
about as ethical as for a total-abstinence
advocate to own a brewery. There are
five Socialist Governments in Australia,
and all five are now wedded to the State-
lottery ideal. None of them has so far
declared for prohibition, so presumably
the breweries are safe from nationali-
sation.
Enterprise
In its monthly publication the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures pays a tribute
to an Australian firm, now almost 50
years old, which has reversed a familiar
trend by expanding overseas to North
America and Asia. The firm is the Kiwi
Polish Co., which began expbrting its
products soon after it was established in
1905 and which found them so popular
with U.S. troops here during the war
that it established itself in Philadelphia
in 1948.
Kiwi is now among the four top shoe-
polish companies in the U.S.A., and with
a second plant in that country is now a
regular advertiser in the national maga-
zines. A Canadian plant was set up in
1952, and in April a factory was opened
in Singapore.
The Chamber’s comment is worth
quoting:
It is the courage and enterprise of the
firm which is so striking, and the fact that
they tackled crowded markets already
catered for by native industries. Their suc-
cess lights a torch to illuminate a path for
others to follow, and removes Australian
manufacturing from parochial to world
class.
In the early post-war years many Aus-
tralian products were to be found on
show in overseas shops; Victorian-made
men’s woollen socks could be bought in
Copenhagen in 1947. But, particularly,
over the past three years, there has been
a change in the world demand for goods,
and a number of budding export markets
have been nipped. Two enterprising Aus-
tralian manufacturers now firmly estab-
lished in Britain are Berlei and Aspro.
Social "Security 11
One of the biggest dangers of social
security is that it will let a country down
when the need is greatest, but this is a
test no country has yet had to face. The
load is one that can carried so long—but
only so long—as Governments and
peoples are prosperous. If it happens to
be heavy, as it is in some countries, most
of all in New Zealand, which has set a
bad example in loose and lavish spend-
ing, this is not enough to bring a reckon-
ing while there is still plenty of money
around.
In the days when a man had to pay
the doctor or the hospital, and bought
the drugs or dope prescribed for him,
everyone watched costs, but as soon as the
State started paying the bills few really
cared. Now the costs are staggering, and
there’s no means of checking the waste
and extravagance. Only once in a while
is a voice raised against the recklessness.
As is usually the case when money is no
concern, the standard of service—in this
instance medical care and attention, and
the sale of millions of bottles of colored
fluids —is low.
One with the backbone to stand up
and try to rouse New Zealanders to the
state of things is W. H. Masters, chair-
man of the Council of Friendly Societies,
who knows what he’s talking about, for
these societies were operating social-
security schemes for members on a
sound actuarial basis long before the
State came into the field, and they’re still
carrying on.
Says Masters: “The little baby of
social security, born in 1938, has grown
in a few short years to such a giant that
there is a danger it will ultimately de-
vour the people it was born to help.
Year by year its appetite grows, and year
by year more and more millions must be
fed to it in an endeavor to satisfy that
which can never be satisfied. What hap-
pens when the appetite cannot be placated
because the national income has fallen
and the present crippling taxation can-
not be further increased? There is only
one answer; there is either a major or a
minor collapse. For there is no doctor
who can cure and no one who can fill
the screaming mouth. The call is for
statesmen with courage to tell the people
the naked truth —that this social security
cannot be financed in time of adversity.
Only by a gradual change from unsound
finance to an actuarially sound system
can the structure be made solid and
secure.”
This puts more forcefully the case for
reform made out lately by the N.Z.
Chambers of Commerce.
Complete with Halo
A week before the N. S, Wales A.L.P.
Annual Conference, which promises to
be a cheerless, hole-in-corner affair,
haunted by the ghost of socialisation and
filled with discordant voices muttering
about the means-test and the sectarian
issue, the A.L.P. Executive in N. S. Wales
has gone all virtuous and begun expelling
persons who do not live up to its high
standards.
High political standards, that is : for its
criteria of political morals seems to be
somewhat arbitrary. Expulsion from the
party is alike the penalty for issuing an
unofficial ticket at a City Council elec-
tion (and thus stealing a march on the
executive) and for demanding and
receiving bribes in a public capacity.
Ex-Alderman Erwin, mayor of Leich-
hardt (N. S. Wales), who was sentenced
to nine months in jail for demanding and
(.Continued on next page)


[For electoral/matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
receiving bribes as an officer of Leich-
hardt Council, was expelled not because
he was a criminal but because “he failed
to uphold the prestige of the party while
holding public office.” Expulsion for the
same reason befell Alderman O’Malley,
who was fined £6O for a similar offence.
It was not explained what prestige the
blown-upon Cahill party, with its Arthur
and Doyle incidents and its failure to
explain its position in relation to Sydney
two-up schools, liquor and the charges of
assault against police emanating from
Glen limes, has to uphold.
It cannot be much when it deals equally
with Aid. Erwin and with aldermen who
ignore a party ticket which places them
last on the voting-list and exercise the
undoubted right of every free citizen to
ask the electors to place him first in their
favor. This awful offence was com-
mitted by Alderman Green, formerly
Deputy Lord Mayor of Sydney, ex-Alder-
man A. K. Jones, and Miss Baillie and
Mrs. Carr, all members of one of Mr.
Ward’s Paddington Labor Leagues.
They are now denied the pleasure of
associating politically with people like
Mr. Cahill and Mr. Sheahan.
Mr, Tully, M.L.A., looks as if he may
be the next. In the announcement about
the ousting of Messrs. Erwin and
O’Malley, the A.L.P. Executive said that
it had instructed some of its officials to
interview Mr. Tully.
The occasion of the interview is to be
some statements which Mr. Tully made
in Goulburn on May 19. He said that
he was very much disturbed about the
Government’s failure to inquire into the
charges of police bashing in Inverell in
1948. It is not quite clear whether Mr.
Tully is to be interviewed so that he may
be given the boot or given a medal
The position is an illuminating com-
mentary on A.L.P. ethics; but it is
prophesied that when the Annual Con-
ference meets some branches of the
party may exhibit a higher standard of
public conduct than their executive.
POLITICAL POINTS
Although small parcels of votes were
still to be counted in some closely-con-
tested electorates, the only seat really in
doubt on Monday was Wannon (Vic.),
where sitting member McLeod (“Labor”)
was 11 ahead of Fraser (Liberal), with
only a few score votes to come. Bourke
(“Labor”) looked certain to hold Fawk-
ner (Vic.) by a narrow margin, and in
New South Wales, Mitchell, Robertson
and Lawson seemed safe for the Govern-
ment and Hume for “Labor.” The two
other “doubtfuls,” Griffith (Q.) and Bass
(Tas.) were also conceded to “Labor.”
Unless Fraser is again able to squeeze
in front of McLeod in Wannon, party
strengths in the new House will be Gov-
ernment, 64; “Labor,” 55 ; the Govern-
ment having lost one seat in each of five
States and gained one. Flinders, in
Victoria.
• •
There will probably be fewer new
faces in the 21st Parliament than in any
of its predecessors. On the Government
side W. A. Brand succeeds B. H. Corser
(retired) in Wide Bay (Q.) and R. W. L.
Lindsay will be the new member for
Flinders (Vic.). Newcomers on the
Opposition benches will be W. C. Coutts
(Griffith, Q.), C. H. Webb (Swan, W.A.)
and L. H. Barnard (Bass, Tas.). “Labor”
old-timers making a comeback are N.
Mak'in (Sturt, S.A.) and N. Lemmon (St.
George, N.S.W.).
• c
The Petrov Commission will resume on
Friday in Sydney, but this stage of the
hearing will be brief; the big session
will come a few weeks later. Meanwhile
Major Birse, Britain’s leading Russian
interpreter, is busy with the Petrov
documents,
• o
The Communist party, with a magni-
ficent display of unconcern, has'an-
nounced that it will not be represented
by counsel at the Petrov inquiry. Wot,
no Dr. Evatt?
• •
The Scots have a tight grip on Coran-
gamite and Wannon, adjoining electorates
in Victoria’s Western District. Allan
McDonald held Corangamite for the
Liberals for years, and in 1951 his
“Labor” opponent was Angus McLean.
When McDonald died, the seat went to
Ewen Mackinnon, whose by-election
rival was McLean, and the same two
fought it out again on May 29 —with
the same result. Mackinnon had previ-
ously won the Wannon seat in 1949 from
“Labor” man Donald McLeod who had
held it from 1940 and who won it back
again in 1951. This time the Liberal
candidate was J. M. Fraser. On Monday,
in the closest fight for years, Donal’ was
leading by a wee sporran.
• •
Seeking what consolation it could for
“Labor’s” defeat in two seats it expected
to win, the A.L.P. paper “News Review”
reported on Friday that the Liberal can-
didates in Mitchell and Robertson had
won on Communist preferences. It
spoke too soon. By Monday, Wheeler
had an overall majority in Mitchell and
Dean was only 96 votes short of one in
Robertson, which meant that he needed
fewer than five per cent, of Commo
preferences to give him the seat.
Wheeler’s victory in Mitchell was
largely due to hard personal effort. He
had unusual population-changes to cope
with. His fight—and success—should be
noted by Menzies.
• •
Stirred a little by the outcry against
prosecutions of small shopkeepers for
Sunday trading, but afraid to offend the
Shop Assistants’ Union, the Cahills are
looking for a compromise. Someone in
Cabinet has suggested the brainwave of
transferring authority in the matter to
and shire councils. In anyone
else but the Cahills this could be taken
as generous broadmindedness, but com-
ing from the Macquarie-street boys it is
more likely to be a case of passing the
buck.
Still, whatever the motive, the sugges-
tion is a good one, but it has yet to get
past Cabinet and caucus.
• •
Though it had some near shaves, the
Country party was the only one in the
Federal Parliament which did not lose
a seat at the elections. It went out with
17 seats and came back with 17 seats.
• •
There was a big exodus of New South
Welshmen across the border into Vic-
toria on election-day, but it was only
temporary —they were mostly back again
by bedtime. New South Wales law
requires the pubs to remain closed on
polling-day; Victorian law doesn’t.
• •
Queensland Industrial Court has granted
increased margins to members of the
Electrical Trades Union working under
the State award. Application was for
£2 2s. for tradesmen, 18s. 9d. for semi-
skilled workers and 1 Is. 6d. for unskilled ;
the court granted 18s., 9s. and 6s. As the
court had previously granted quarterly
adjustments, the combined effect will be
that tradesmen working under State
awards in Queensland will now receive
255. a week more than those under
Federal awards.
The decision has brought from Albert
Monk and others a demand that the
"BRING OUT THOSE OLD R-R-RECORDS...."
Federal Court should at once get busy
ana follow the example. The reasoning
is faulty. There is no more compulsion
on the Federal judges to follow the lead
of their Queensland colleagues than the
latter felt to fellow theirs. In postponing
a decision on margins until November
the Arbitration judges were giving the
economic Scene time to clarify itself.
There seems no reason why they should
change their mind; the effect of the
Queensland decision may, in fact, be a
useful guide to them.
• •
A Federal election wouldn’t be a
Federal election at all without a few
extravagant Calwellian prophecies. This
time Arthur was a little more modest
than on some occasions in the past; he
put “Labor’s” expected gains down at
20 seats. But his best effort was at
Balaclava on the final night of the cam-
paign when he said that the Liberals
would lose the election because “when
bread-and-butter issues were being dis-
cussed Mr. Menzies looked too much
like Lord Bruce.” Instead of that, the
“Labor” party lost because Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Calwell looked too much like
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell.
• •
According to a “Sydney Morning
Herald” report a new garbage-disposal
plant designed by Canterbury Municipal
Council gives off an odor which is “sweet
rather than offensive.” Sounds just the
thing for Leichhardt or Bankstown.
Sydney City Council might also be inter-
ested.
• •
The fight of Allan in Gwydir—his
second campaign for the seat inside five
months —did not receive much notice, but
he increased his majority largely as the
result of a solid swing to him in centres
which on the previous occasion voted
“Labor” almost to a man.
• •
As usual, the list of proposed items for
the agenda of the annual conference of
the N. S. Wales branch of the A.L.P. is
long and varied, and includes plenty of
hardy annuals such as nationalisation of
breweries. One new motion which isn’t
likely to get far is submitted by the
Sutherland branch. It proposes that the
party should “cease filling public posi-
tions with defeated politicians and sup-
porters of the Labor movement.” Sounds
a bit like sabotage.
The conference will be held in the
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday, Sunday
and Monday next. The Doc. will be
there. It had been hoped that he would
have been able to address the conference
on the theme “How I Won.” Instead it’ll
be “Why We Lost.”
• •
There’s really not much difference in
the attitude of Government and Opposi-
tion parties in the Victorian Parliament
in regard to Cain’s proposed salary-
grab. Country-party leader McDonald
says he believes members should set an
example to the community by not asking
for more pay at present; Cain’s “Labor”
party believes it should set an example by
asking for more.
• •
Another victim of the N. S. Wales
road-tax, Murray Valley Coaches Pty.,
Ltd., ceased operations in the Ma State
on May 31.
• »
This is likely to be the Television Term
in Canberra.
• •
Anyone tempted to smile at the Vic-
torian Public Service Association sugges-
tion that 1 the State Government should
give awards for valor to public servants
who perform outstanding acts of courage
in the course of their duties should
remember that public servants aren’t all
chair-borne. The move referred to the
action of Senior Warden Ashe, who
overpowered an armed murderer single-
handed after half the staff at Pentridge
had been compelled to tie themselves up
to the office furniture at the point of a
revolver in best movie fashion.
• •
In Maryborough (Q.) 300 men have
been on strike for more than three
months on the margins issue. Last week
the chairman of their disputes committee
figured in court proceedings, but they had
nothing to do with the strike —as far as
is known. He was charged with keeping
a common gaming-house. He did not
appear in court and forfeited £5O bail.
• •
John Costello has been swom-in as
new Premier of Eire, his coalition
Government commanding 79 seats as
against 66 held by the Fianna Fail party.
De Valera’s defeat in the general
elections was not surprising; it was fore-
told by the trend in recent by-elections.
On March 3 by-elections were held in
Cork and Louth. Both seats had been held
by the Fine Gael (Opposition) party and
both were retained by it with greatly in-
creased majorities. De Valera’s Fianna
Fail party had been kept in office by the
rather chancy support of two Independ-
ents, and after the by-elections he said
that “in view of the results it was neces-
sary that a general election should be held
as soon as the financial measures required
for public services had been completed.”
• •
By 1956 the Victorian Gas and Fuel
Corporation expects to be piping 15 mil-
lion cubic feet of gas a day to Melbourne
from the plant now under construction at
Mor well. The project will produce gas
from brown-coal by the Lurgi process,
and the eventual target is 180 million
cubic feet a day, plus benzol and other
by-products.
• •
A group of unions including the Clerks,
Shop Assistants, A.W.U. and Storemen
and Packers is applying to the Queensland
Industrial Court to have deleted from
State awards the clauses exempting from
membership certain executives and semi-
executives. If this is not a direct result
of the N. S. Wales Compulsory Unionism
Act, then it is a mighty curious coin-
cidence,
• •
That the Swan-street bridge across the
Yarra, estimated in 1946 to cost £BO,OOO,
actually cost £261,708 is some indication
of what the Master Plan for Melbourne
will cost —if it’s ever started. ■<
• •
“Stromlo”: In view of scientific con-
firmation that the seasons are changing in
south-eastern Australia there will be a
great deal of public as well as technical
interest in the meteorological work being
done at'Mawson, Australia’s permanent
station on the Antarctic mainland. The
observations made four times a day, to-
gether with those on Heard and Mac-
quarie Islands and other southern islands,
should prove of great value for weather-
forecasting. In addition, observations on
gravity-determination are stated to be im-
portant for research relating to long-range
rocket-projectiles, and magnetic observa-
tions already made will mean alterations
of data on navigational charts for the
whole of the southern Indian Ocean. The
station seems to have been a good invest-
ment already ; its future work may prove
of even greater significance.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TS there anything more arrogant than a
A Government department which has a
virtual monopoly of the thing it deals in?
I was walking along the street when a
friend stopped me. “I’d like to tell you
how much we all enjoyed those stories of
yours that were broadcast last night,” he
said. “Oh, did you? That’s the first I’ve
heard of it,” I said. I trotted round to the
relevant department, “Hullo,” said the
Manager of Programmes, whom I knew
quite well. “I’m surprised to see you. We
thought you were dead. We couldn’t find
you.” “You couldn’t have tried very
hard,’’ I answered. “I’m living in your
street.” He was a very nice rpan and he
made amends by not only making retro-
. spective payments, but promising to
broadcast another book I had written.
The fee was not very big it never is
for a living Australian author —but it was
more than Shakspeare gets when the same
organisation broadcasts his works. —
“C.Q.”
$ »& $
“Sno”; Whether or not Noah’s Ark
is pickled in a glacier is the latest worry
of Sydney “Sun.” It crops up in a red-
hot page of news on the Great Flood,
The “Sun,” which shows a near-patho-
logical interest in goings-on above the
snowline, recently disappointed its
readers with the no-fruition of its
Himalayan Yetti-hunt. Can it now be
-hatching-up a jaunt to Mt. Ararat as a
sop? Perhaps, twitters the “Sun,” Noah
.himself may still be refrigerated in the
1 ancient snows! Fiddlesticks. Noah
holds the world-record for presence of
mind and was not the boy to sit and con-
geal in a snowstorm.
*** ❖ *X*
“Veritas”; Though the elderly parson
next-door was a consistent lecturer on
my Sabbath-breaking activities, I con-
tinued tinkering with my old car —till I
took it to the local agents for a spare-part.
They checked the engine-
number and promptly
pronounced: “Stolen
property.*’ Seemed that
the thief, and car,
had disappeared after he
had taken delivery of it
when new, under hire
from a distributor in
another State, He hadn’t
been sighted since. Don’t
know how many times,
or in how many States,
the old’ bomb had
changed hands before I
bought it, but I would
like to know the odds
against the thief turning
out to be the son of the
parson next-door. He
was!
+> ♦>
“Bega” •: Headlines in
our local paper, reporting
a visit by the most Rev.
Eris O’Brien, D.D., Ph.D.,
M.A., * F.R.H.S., R.C.
Archbishop of Canberra-
Goulburn (N.S.W.),
former lecturer in
modern history at Sydney
University, and occasional
Bulletin contributor:
NEW ARCHBISHOP’S
WEALTH OF LEARN-
ING IS NOT OBVIOUS.
“Macijell”: It’s a fascinating thought!
While our 10,000-ton radar-fitted cruiser
lay a few miles north in Alexandria, we
matelots, climbing all over Cheops, some
to the top, some inside in the musty dark-
ness, must have walked or climbed over
another vessel pretty well as big as our
own. A ship which, according to the
report of the archaeologists who lately
found it, is still perfectly preserved after
immolation in stygian darkness for 5000
years . Just as fascinating is* the thought
that Cheops’ “ghost-ship” is verily a ship
of the desert; it seems safe to assume that
the oldest known vessel in the world has
never touched water—salt or fresh!
❖ ❖ *
“Lord Luvus”: There was much solemn
talk about the irreverence of comments
made by the crowd during the Queen’s
visit; I notice similar comments were
made when she returned to London.
These pedants don’t discriminate between
the words uttered and the feeling behind
"We supply a special periscope with that over-the-eyes model.”
them. Melba sang once in an opera-house
in a remote part of Europe. As the
applause thundered round the playhouse
a voice was heard shouting: “Good old
Lilydale!”
“Parram”: The solo oboe (B.
26/5/’54) is damnably dull, I don’t care
how well it is played, whose brother is
playing it, or whether it is cleaned with
bird-of-paradise feathers —five minutes
of the oboe’s cultivated squawks must
saturate those rare music-listeners who
are truly honest with themselves. The
trouble lies in the impossibility of
sounding passionate on an oboe. Where
even the flute can manage a little coy sex-
appeal, the oboe remains, of all instru-
ments, the most eunuchoid, and —how-
ever superb the playing—an hour of
exquisitely emasculate noises still adds
up to an hour of exquisite dreariness.
“Yes, Mumsie's going walkie-walkie. Don't wake her up!"
“Jock”: Convicts under Major Lock-
yer toiled long and hard repairing the
road that Lieut. William Cox’s men put
through in excellent time from Emu Ford
to Bathurst in 1814, The road ran near
Bowenfels, where one of Lockyer’s men
—Corporal Travers —died. Travers sleeps
in an old orchard, his grave, weather-
beaten, moss-covered, lying in tall grass.
His epitaph, still decipherable, reads:
“Billeted by Death, I quartered here
remain; when the last trump blows, I’ll
rise and march again.” Now I see an-
other inscription has been scrawled
underneath: “Lie still if you’re wise;
you’ll be damned if you rise.”
t
“N.H.”: Tell “Ceg” (B. 26/5/’54) that
it’s not unheard-of to take wine luke-
warm and like it. Enjoying claret with
roast-beef, we learned from a Contin-
ental visit to dilute it, adding one-part
water to two-parts claret. Experiment-
ing, we found we got the best out of both
food and wine if the water was well
warmed.
* ❖ ❖
“Tame”: The plaintive suggestion by
“Ceg” that shipping-companies could
arrange a trip for Anzacs to view the old
haunts of Gallipoli and Cairo will pro-
bably raise many a sympathetic “Hear,
hear!” But just what does an Anzac
expect to find? A party of New Zea-
landers went by Turkish invitation about
four years back, to tangi Over the lost.
In the party was Colonel C. F. Bassett,
who as a sigs.-sergeant won the V.C. on
Gallipoli. He said that they were not
allowed near the Beach or the Gully ;
the whole area is a fortified zone. And
Cairo and vicinity have barged along in
40 years; the Kiwis couldn’t find many
of the points of interest they remem-
bered.
i *2 $ *2*
“Sister Ellell”; When we were train-
ing we used to drop into Casualty and
persuade the night-porter to let us scan
the admission-book. Not through idle
curiosity, or morbid interest in ailments
—we’d had our fill of that during the day
—but to get a laugh we badly needed.
The foreman-porter had appointed him-
self Chief Scribe; woe betide any under-
ling who wrote in the book whilst his back
was turned. We felt the search well re-
warded if we found our favorite piece de
resistance —which read: “ded on areval.”
♦l* »!♦
“Metralia”; Sydney University’s Dr.
Hertz has scared a farmer’s wife by land-
ing in a helicopter and asking casually if
she’d seen a bunch of fruit-flies travelling
by balloon. Whatinell would he expect?
The question was unsettling enough with-
out dropping-in by helicopter to ask it.
It’s a mercy he kept mum about the cos-
mic-ray-bombarded flies being radioactive
to boot; he might be up for manslaughter.
He landed in the backyard —all parking
cops please drool at the mouth in antici-
pation of the glorious future!
+> ♦♦♦
“Sparks”; At least one old lady will
welcome the census-takers when they
begin their mammoth task of distributing
and collecting some 8,000,000-odd inti-
mate questionnaires shortly. For seven
years she has suffered pangs of conscience
over a wrong answer in her schedule-form
at the 1947 census. For seven years she
has besieged the census authorities with
her plea to be allowed to correct the
error, the authorities, in turn, pleading
with her to be patient and wait for the
1954 census to make the correction.
❖ ❖
“Nunk”: Maybe genius can compose
great music to poor words (B. 2/6/’54),
but hardly in the art-song, where words
and notes are expected to have equal im-
portance, “The poetic” tends to drive
real poetry out of circulation, and if the
harsh lyric of Moussorgsky’s “Song of the
Flea,” even in translation, has not the real
stuff of poetry in it, neither has “The
Marseillaise.” Though it does not affect
The Bulletin critique (B. 19/ 5/’54) that
a good song for setting is not necessarily
a fine poem, but must have certain
definite qualities, it should be said of the
“third-rate poet” Wilhelm Muller that he
was the university-bred son of a well-to-
do shoemaker and a member of a cultured
literary circle. His two cycles set by
Schubert were deliberate attempts at the
style of German folksong: they were
“in character”; and “Die Schone Mul-
lerin” was part of the 77 Poems from the
Posthumous Papers of a Travelling Horn-
Player to which members of the circle
contributed. The romantic wail of the
“Schone Mullerin” and “Winterreise”
cycles is of the same literary value as the
classical wail of Housman’s “Shropshire
Lad,” and the two German cycles have
each a strong dramatic line, which the
English has not: that Housman found a
perfect composer in the most scholarly of
folksong experts, Vaughan Williams, is
as providential and significant as that
Muller found a composer of his own tem-
perament in Schubert. If Muller was a
third-class poet, someone else must have
written such things as “The Linden Tree,”
“The Signpost,” “The Organ-Grinder,”
etc. He should not be judged by most
English translations of his songs ; but the
singing-translations' by A. H. Fox
Strangeways and Steuart Wilson (Oxford)
of his two greab suites show that Muller,
at least as a writer for music, knew his
business thoroughly: solid, dramatic, and
hardly an adjective.
NEW TENNERS
“The Commonwealth Bank announces £lO
notes of new design.”
“Is the newest ten-pound note
Better than the old one?”
‘‘l've no opinion you can quote —
I’ve never chanced to hold one.”
“Well, here’s how the new note,
displayed.
Appeared to a newspaper-eye:
The back’s a picture of a maid
In sort of Grecian drapery;
‘‘And Governor Phillip on the front
Who ferried us across the snarling sea
Sits unperturbed as was his wont
Among the coats-of-arms and Darling
Pea.”
“I’d like two copies on my walls:
One of the front, one of the back of
’em ;
I feel that my ancestral hall’s
Undistinguished for the lack of ’em;
“But, before my need’s supplied,
Phil’s beard will grow; he’ll shave the
stubble,
Run like ink to the other side
And get the Greek girl into trouble.”
“O heaven protect us all from such
C urrency-occurrences !”
“You needn’t worry overmuch —
Accept my poor assurances."
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


ARGUMENT in a fancy-bread test-
case against a baker in a Melbourne
court would have made W. S. Gilbert
green with envy. The baker was charged
" He couldn't have been driving that fast, officer. Only a little while
ago he said We'd run out of petrol."
with making bread that didn’t come into
the one-, two- or four-pound denomina-
tions, but was called Vienna, Defend-
ing counsel argued that his client’s bread
was Vienna, containing the necessary in-
gredients, and having been baked to
perfection. Prosecutor for the City
Council said it was not Vienna because it
did not have three slashes across the top:
it was therefore “just bread.” Defendant
claimed that his bread was exactly the
same as Vienna except that it lacked the
slashes Defending counsel said that
• some bread sold as Vienna had four
slashes instead of three and the bakers
thereof weren’t prosecuted. Case dis-
missed, S.M. apparently concluding that
three, four or no slashes wouldn’t make
the bread taste any worse or better.
“X.S.”
4+4 +4+ & ' f
“Chainsman”: One final addition to
that “P.M.”-list. The abbreviation also
stands for “Permanent Mark,” in these
days usually a metal pin set in a block
of cement, a few inches below ground-
level. It’s not generally known (though
surveyors wish it were!) that penalty for
interference with a mark is £lO.
<4 * ❖
“Pip Tok”: There’s nothing like pride
of race, even in these days of thin-
blooded internationalism. When a not-
so-very-new Australian was filling-m ms
form for enrolment as an elector, he
boggled over the query, “Are you a
natural-born or a naturalised British sub-
ject?” A helpful friend asked him where
he was born, and received the reply*
“Manchester.” “Well,” the friend told
him, “you’re a natural-born British sub-
ject.” Immediately came the indignant
retort, “I’m damned if I am! You people
out here are British subjects. I’m a
Pommy! ”
4*4 <4 *
“Babblin’ Brook”: From experience of
coffee both in trade and as an addict to
the beverage in various countries, I can’t
agree with “Ceg.” (fi. 5/5/’54) that “the
best coffee in the world is made in US. A,”
In expert confirmation of this, a principal
of the ocntrolling-interest of the South
American coffee-trade, writing in the trade-
magazine, expressed surprise on discover-
ing that very few New York caterers
served a decent cup of coffee. Superlative
coffee can be produced only from beans
two or three years old, freshly-roasted
and -ground. They may be roasted to
light, medium, or dark brown, or even
practically black to satisfy Italian tastes;
Greeks, Arabs, Egyptians and Turks use
coffee pulverised as fine as flour in
preference to being more coarsely ground,
4*4 4*4 £
“Cauboy”: “Uidist” asks (B. 26/ 5/ ’54)
what would Shakspeare, Marlowe, Ben
Jonson and co. have done without the
support of the actors’ companies, with
their influential patrons and shrewd
financiers? Well, they could have gone
on with their writing or made the lack
of patrons the excuse for giving it up
altogether. The point I tried to make
was that it wasn’t the patrons who made
the poets, but the poets who made the
patrons. There may be dozens of mute
inglorious Shakspeares in Australia for
all I know, and an Elizabethan Trust
could be a great benefit if it could recog-
nise them. Unfortunately there is little
evidence for supposing that the Trust
will. We have had a Commonwealth
Literary Fund for years, and what bene-
fit has it begn? A friend of mine got a
literary-fellowship once and she’s written
nothing since,
♦♦♦ *
A , tl _. .
Swelpme : Seems to me tool-thieving
is most rife where unionism is strongest
(B. 19/5/;54). Was working on build-
ing-alterations at an abattoirs where a
week seldom passed without the slaughter-
men striking over some “principle. But
principles didn’t apply to our tools. My
mate neglected to lock-up a valuable
pair of Stillsons when he knocked-off for
lunch ; he thought of them after a butcher
had strolled past with something in a
sugarbag, which had been empty on the
forward trip. Sure enough, the tool was
"Hey! Go away, or you'll he getting me fired!"
missing. The loser’s intention of calling
the police reached the union steward,
who promptly came forward with a
solicitous warning: “Look mate, what-
ever you do, don’t get the coppers —these
blokes are just as likely to put a knife
between your ribs. But if you can iden-
tify the bloke I’ll see that you get your
tool back.” The loser wanted his Still-
sons, not a prosecution ; he agreed. Next
day the suspect was pointed out. The
shop-steward strode across and talked to
him very earnestly; strolled back and
announced the result: “You’ve made a
mistake, mate he says he didn’t take
it.” As the good old song says, “Soli-
darity for ever!”
*l* *i* ❖
“Bandy”; Cruiser Australia’s recent
rescue of a Dutch vessel in calm seas off
the Queensland coast was, of course,
merely routine for a warrior with her
record, one item of which missed being
reported. That was her 1935 rescue
of a large American schooner in distress
in heavy seas in mid-Pacific. The
Seth Parker, she was carrying Philip H.
Lord and a film-making team round the
South Seas. Australia had the Duke of
Gloucester on board, taking him home
through Panama. For five stormy days
the cruiser stood-by the wallowing
schooner, pouring ccnsiderable quantities
of fuel-oil on to the water through lava-
tories and oil-soaked bags lashed to bow
and boat-booms. Eventually she lowered
a seaboat —a nice bit of seamanship—
and brought nine of the Americans back
aboard. Australia stayed till a U.S. Navy
tug bucketed out and took the cripple in
tow. A couple of gobs helped in our
galley, producing a concoction aptly
termed “Seth Parker hash,” from which,
I remember, there resulted no strained
diplomatic relations.
* ❖ ❖
“Yair”: Never travelled in a dirtier
electric-train than the Sydney one from
Wynyard to Petersham recently. Seats
were thick with dust, windows coated
with dust dried into a streaky mud by
an overnight storm, floor littered with
stains, dirt and cigarette-butts. So we
were with the woman opposite when she
dragged up a toddler who tried to sit
down on the floor. “Get up,” she bawled.
“You can sit down when you get to
Auntie Jean’s backyard where the dirt
is clean!”
* ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: A pretty little cottage in
Gollins-place is up for auction, and no-
body knew until this happend that it was
the first Children’s Hospital in Melbourne.
Opened in 1870, it cost £477 to run in its
first year, when it handled 56 in-patients
and 1726 out-patients. And, with a Gov-
ernment grant of £75, it made a profit.
The average cost of upkeep of a hospital-
bed these days is £6OOO.
“Kelvin”: X know one War II Digger
who cursed the youthful indiscretion of
ornamentation by tattoo (B. 26/5/’54).
Proving himself a first-class fighting man,
parade-ground soldier and wizard in the
functions of his corps, he rose to W.O. I
and was selected for an officer-training
course. On his own, and correct, assess-
ment of his performances in all subjects
of the course, his commissioning should
have been automatic; yet he was
returned to unit as unsuitable for officer
status. Not till after demob, did he learn,
from a former coy. 0.C., that his rejec-
tion followed a decision flowing from a
selection board’s observance of his tat-
tooed arms. The fact that he was
tattooed, and not the designs themselves,
clinched his disqualification.
* * ❖
“Caprico”: The Plastic Horse of
Troy! A Sydney chemist, fined for late-
trading, said he’d hesitated to break the
law until “the customer explained that
he wanted a plastic horse for a gift and
dared not face his wife without it.”
Here, perhaps, is a clue to the real reason
why the ancient Trojans opened their
gates to the Wooden Horse. Though
school versions of Homer are reticent, it
seems unthinkable that a girl with
Helen’s looks should be shut up for 10
years or so without getting up to
something: if so, consequences were, in
those antique days, a dead cert. You
can almost see Helen peeping at the
Wooden Horse from the ramparts of
Troy and nagging her paramour: “Now,
Paris, the children haven’t had a new toy
in years. You go right out and bring
in that horse. At once! Do you hear
me?”
* *> t <*
“Spokeshave”: Touching these radio-
active fishes. lii South Melbourne for a
long time past they have been selling a
brand of tipple that’s called Bikini
Waters. They reckon it’s radioactive.
* * *
“Territory Torti”: When I knew
“Sister Ellell” in ’43 she wasn’t speeding
(B. 19/5/’54), but was chuffing gently
to and fro in her hospital-train between
Adelaide River and Katherine. But even
in the Territory she had her police
troubles. Having abetted her in “liberat-
ing” a much-needed claw-hammer from
a temporarily unguarded Q.M. dump at
Pine Sreek, I hastened off to our genial
Provost-Marshal with a suggestion. He
enthusiastically agreed, pounced on the
liberator next time her train came in,
and investigated the Case of the Missing
Hammer so formally that the luckless
“Ellell” (never easy prey) felt the loom-
ing shadow of a Dishonorable Discharge.
She fought back valiantly, protesting
with truth that her transport really needed
nailing together, until the P.-M. broke
and admitted it was a frame-up. She
didn’t forgive us for a long time.
DEGENERATION
“Pacific island cannibals who won’t eat girls.
—“AM:” poster.
The old-time island chief upon whose
strand
Some shipwrecked castaways happened
to stumble
Was never very fussy: there to hand
Was tucker on the hoof— haughty or
humble.
A hearty welcome he would give to all,
What time he would appraise them,
chops a-licking,
And, though he much preferred ’em
plump and tall.
He’d never scorn the stringy sort and
small —
They’d make a picking.
Boiled, grilled or roasted, fried or
fricasseed.
Or even done, like fish-food, in a
batter,
“Long-pig” fulfilled a gastronomic need.
The color of the hide —what did it
matter ?
He never even had ’em scrubbed till
clean —
It’s quite unlikely that he suffered colic
From eating those suffused with nicotine,
Or trying to digest, with yam and green,
Some alcoholic.
Had it been put to him that dames were
not
His dish of meat, he would have loudly
cackled.
And, if there d been one braising in a
pot.
Would show just how the carving
should be tackled.
He would have pointed out, you bet your
life
As wafted airs from cooking he would
savor.
That, whether she be maiden or a wife,
She’d certainly be tender ’neath the knife.
And be, than man, of much superior
flavor.
Their forbears, could they see, would, to
a man.
Condemn the generation now as stupid.
Because, although they still like human
scran,
Their choice of meat’s governed too
much by Cupid.
There’s been a revolutionary change;
Present-day cannibals now do their
cooking
Upon the latest power-kero, range.
But their behavior does seem rather
strange:
2 hey won’t cook girls—that is, if
they’re good-looking!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


i
You can rely on
VI
‘pressurised’
TAA’s five pressurised Convairs have played an important part in TAA’s
unmatched record of service. In less than eight years of operation, TAA’s fast,
dependable airliners have carried over four million passengers safely to their
destination.
Just phone BO 526 or any authorised Travel Agent.
L / '
CONVAIR
\ \
/
NPN6BB
PERSONAL ITEMS
Percy Valentine Storkey is addicted to
surfing in summer and fishing whenever
the Law allows him—which, in his 16
years as presiding judge in northern
N.S.W., has not been often. Now he’s
off on 12 months’ leave to the U.K. In
law since, in 1921, he was admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar, Storkey hails from New
Zealand, and before his judgeship was
kept busy circuiting round south-western
N.S.W., Crown Prosecutor. As well as
LL.B., he can write V.C. after his name
—an entitlement won when Storkey and
co. went in to attack a strong German
position near Vihers Bret, in April, 1918.
• •
Artist Lusby sketched John Arthur at
Moresby just before the subject took-
off on a series of air-reconnaissances
over unmapped territory round the
Strickland headwaters. Director of
Civil Aviation in Papua-New Guinea,
Arthur (33, born in Brisbane) served
almost the whole of War II in the
R.A.A.F.—first, observer; later, pilot.
Two of those war years gave him a good
look at New Guinea, where he now keeps
an eye on perhaps the most robust and
colorful civil-aviation set-up in the wdrld.
They cling to vintage aircraft in the New
Guinea hinterland, according to ex-flyer
Lusby, who ought to know, he having
just returned from flying in some of ’em
up that mountainous way. So Arthur
will be aiming his cameras from an
AVIATION
Ansori. When he has finished, the last
remaining area of New Guinea will have
been mapped, in accordance with Terri-
tories Minister Hasluck’s decree to open-
up all unknown areas by 1956. John is
cousin to Wilf. Arthur, D.S.O., D.F.C.,
War II fighter-pilot.
• •
General William Bridgeford has been
appointed honorary looker-after of the
Federal R.S.L.’s cash. He takes over the
treasury from Air Vice-Marshal Bladin.
• •
Cambridge University made Sydney
Butlin a Master of Arts: now, it has
given him his Doctorate of Letters. In
between degrees Butlin lectured in econo-
mics at Sydney University, assisted in
directing the Department of War Organi-
sation of Industry, and eight years back
succeeded to the Chair of Economics in
Sydney. Just before War II he sat down
to write a book, for, he says, a hobby.
Now published under the title Founda-
tions of the Australian Monetary System,
as well as adding Litt.D. to his collection,
the volume has been selected by the Aus-
tralian Publishers’ Association as one of
13 it will send to the 1954 British National
Book Exhibition. Butlin is working on
two volumes dealing with the Australian
war-economy; they’ll form part of the
official history.
In South Australian politics—off and
on—for the .past third of a century, Sir
George Jenkins was trained for his post
of Minister of Agriculture (vintage 1944)
at Roseworthy, next on his own pro-
perty, after that as chairman of directors
of Wirraminna station and as president
of the Graziers’ Federal Council and the
S.A. Stockowners’ Association. He held
the same agricultural portfolio back in
1922, was beaten in 1924, in again in
1927, out again in 1930 for three years,
then in again and there since. Now he’s
out again, retired from Cabinet, though
still in Parliament. He takes an interest
in sport generally, has been president of
the S.A. Trotting League, but, at 76 this
month, enjoys best an afternoon on a
bowling-green.
• •
Jack Read farewells a colleague:
Most who have watched the boxing game
hereabouts think Les Darcy was the greatest
boxer this country ever had, but quite a number
say that Tommy Urea (who has now passed
on in Sydney) would have beaten Darcy, both
at their best. They believe Uren would have
been too shifty for Darcy.
Bom at Leichhardt (Sydney), Uren started in
the 1914 Newtown Olympia Stadium £lOOO tour-
nament, which he won from Eddie McLean.
Next year Tommy took the Australian light-
weight championship from Herb McCoy, as well
as the welterweight title from Fred Kay, before
he won the middleweight crown from Kay in
1916. Later, Uren conquered top-notch Ameri-
cans Jimmy Clabby and Eddie McGoorty,
having had no fewer than nine contests with
Clabby, every one of them a classic.
An active ring-life, running into some 130
contests, made Uren plenty of money ; he
retired in mid-1930, after beating Tommy' Cribb,
Snowy Breasley and Ted Monson. Uren then
became a country publican, but his generosity
to customers made him lose-out, and he after-
wards found the going tough with a wife and
seven children to support. He took on many
jobs, giving, between times, extraordinarily
graceful skipping-exhibitions at suburban
stadiums and theatres. I remember one night
at Leichhardt Stadium when more than £5O
was thrown into the ring as a token to his
remembered ability.
No one seems to know what Tommy did for
a living in recent years, but that made no
difference to his always being as fit as a fiddle.
He died within two months of his 61st birth-
day. There are not many class-boxers such as
Uren now in business, and old-time enthusiasts
wonder when, if ever, they will see his like
again.
• •
Gunner in 1918, brigadier today
(France, Alamein, New Guinea, Borneo
in between), Tom Eastick has been presi-
dent of the South Australian R.S.L. for
the past four years. Acting-president two
years before that, he’s done his share,
and won’t be standing for the League
elections coming-up.
• •
Melbourne is overrun by vets, at the
moment, occasion being the annual con-
ference of the Australian Veterinary
Association. Chief among them is
Professor R. E. Glover, president of
the Royal College of Veterinary Sur-
geons and Professor of Veterinary
Pathology at Liverpool University. He
started as a research scholar with the
British Ministry of Agriculture and later
studied in the Pasteur Institute in Paris.
Cattle-tuberculosis, sheep-pneumonia and
fowl-pox are among his subjects. He is
in Melbourne to present the high award
of Diploma of Honorary Associate of
the Royal College to Professor J. D.
Stewart, of Sydney, and Dr. L. B. Bull
and Dr. I. Clunies-Ross,' of C.5.1.R.0.
One of the professors leavened proceed-
ings with a story of his early veterinary
experience. He was performing a difficult
operation on a flighty horse for an ama-
teur stud-mistress, when she said: “You
don’t seem nervous of horses.” “Well,”
he grinned, “if you’d just been filing a
lion’s teeth you wouldn’t be very ner-
vous of horses, either.” He’d just come
from a circus.
• •
The Rutherford Memorial Fellowship
goes to G. N. Malcolm, lecturer in
chemistry at Canterbury University Col-
lege in Christchurch (N.Z.). At Man-
chester University he’ll come under noted
research scientist Geoffrey Gee, Professor
of Physical Chemistry there.
“C. Sandef”Bill Gissane, whose ideas
on production of a really safe car, fitted
with safety-belts and dashboards of
rubber or padded leather to minimise
lower-limb injuries, were featured in the
Australian Press recently, speaks from
intimate experience: he is surgeon-in-
chief for the Birmingham (Eng.) Fracture
Clinic. I remember him at Sydney Uni-
versity in the 1920’s as a man of inflexible
principle. On the sporting side he was
wicket-keeper for the First XI and
the University’s lightweight champion.
He’s now a world authority on ortho-
pcedic surgery.
• •
After just on 20 years as chief of
C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of Animal Health
and Production Dr. Lionel Bull goes out
to grass. Mixed-up with beasties of one
sort and another since, in 1911, he took
his Bachelorship of Veterinary Science in
Melbourne (doctorate eight years later),
he was for nine years director of the
South Australian Government laboratory
of pathology and bacteriology. Relieving
him at C.5.1.R.0., D, A. Gill is now in
charge of the McMaster Animal Health
lab. in Sydney.
• •
There’s a tribute to New Zealand as
the originating country of Corriedales
behind selection of an Enzedder, H. Sidey,
to judge the breed at the agricultural
and pastoral show at Juliaca, in Peru.
That country has been building up its
Corriedale blood from adjacent republics,
but Sidey, a prominent Corriedale man
of Canterbury, believes Peru breeders
contemplate turning to the foundation-
studs in the Fernland —he’s ready with
complete information if he’s right.
• •
Part of a £600,000 Government grant
to Adelaide University goes to create a
Chair of Dentistry, with Dr. Thomas
Campbell, Dean of the Faculty and
Director of Dental Studies, getting the
professorship. At the moment overseas,
looking-in on dental education, with
spots of lecturing in the U.K. and
Sweden, the prof, also ranks high in
anthropology ; just before War II he was
invited to the U.S. to lecture university
and scientific bodies on Binghi. He holds
doctorates in both science and dentistry.
• •
Herewith C. M. Donald, lately
appointed the first Professor of Agricul-
ture at Adelaide University. New head,
as well, of the agronomy department in
the Waite Agricultural Research Insti-
tute, Donald was born in England, took
an agricultural diploma from Hawkes-
bury College (N.S.W.) with first-class
AGRICULTURE
honors in 1928, and an agricultural-
science degree (similar honors) from
Sydney University five years later. With
C.5.1.R.0. for the past 20 years, he put
in several of those researching into
mineral deficiency in soils, and goes to
Adelaide from assistant-chiefship of
C.5.1.R.0.’s plant-industry division. He’s
44.
Elected president of the Mackay (Q.)
district R.S.L., Ben Hogan, here charted
by “Standby.” A drover-lad, hobby
buckjumping, young Hogan drifted trans-
pacific to try the prairie pintos, and,
until Wilhelm’s decision gathered the
wanderers home, worked on several
ranches, among them the enormous
Stanford outfit in California. With the
Queensland 25th. Battalion in France,
CANE AND CATTLE
Hogan was wounded, got a blighty, and
in 1918 was attached to the Grenadier
Guards —his remembered recollection
here two reviews by George V. The
Armistice found him home, canegrowing
and cattle-running at Mia Mia, outside
Mackay. He put in 27 years on the board
of directors (14 as chairman) of the
North Eton sugar-mill. Life-member of
the R.S.L., Legacy president in Mackay,
the ex-buckjumper now bowls.
a a
“G. Elburg”: High in the ranking-list
of big Australians, Essington Lewis (B.
19/5/’54) is known to old-time South
Australians as once one of the finest
footballers (Australian Rules) of that
State. On his way to the top of the
B.H.P, tree Lewis was on the staff of
the company’s smelters in Port Pirie, and
on Fridays would travel by train to play
on Saturday with the famed Norwood
team in Adelaide. He roved the four
quarters without a spell, giving and taking
hard bumps with the best of ’em. Fair-
haired, he was known as “Snowy” to the
Norwood barrackers, who idolised him
for his cleverness and courage. It was,
incidentally, B.H.P, chief Delprat who
recognised the latent ability of the young
man and eventually nominated him as his
successor.
• *
Into the Silence;
In Malvern (Vic.), at 61, E. V. Woods, a
senior executive of the International Harvester
Co. and former president of the Federal Cham-
ber of Automotive Industries. He imported
the first commercial vehicles into Victoria. An
artilleryman in both World Wars.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 84, Thomas O’Shea,
R.C. Archbishop of Wellington and Metro-
politan of IStew Zealand. Born in San Fran-
cisco, he was the first pupil enrolled at St.
Patrick’s College, Wellington, when it was
opened in 1885. The first St. Patrick’s product
to reach the priesthood, he became coadjutor
to Archbishop Redwood in 1913, and succeeded
him in 1935.
In Adelaide, at 71, Norman Jolly, an out-
standing expert on forestry. He held several
“firsts,” among them the first South Australian
Rhodes Scholarship and the first Professorship
of Forestry at Adelaide University. He had
served his subject in India, Queensland and
N.S.W. (respectively Director of Forests and
Assistant Forests Commissioner in the two last-
named). He repped for S.A. at football and had
played first-grade cricket.
At 84, I. J. Weaver, who won the Korong
(Vic.) Assembly seat in 1917, held it for 10
years and was ousted by Albert Dunstan.
He had been president of the Victorian
CounUy party.
At Black Rock (Vie.), John Sydney McCubbin,
son of the late Frederick McCubbin, artist and
former Melbourne Gallery director. Inventor
as Well as artist, J. S. devised a jet-propulsion
engine during the war and put it to the Aus-
tralian defence authorities. He was told that
his invention was a military secret and that he
was liable to imprisonment if he divulged it!
British engineers, it happened, were already
working on a similar notion.


A LIE AND A BIRDIE


ABORIGINALITIES
TIM’S one of those fellows who never
** give any additional information when
answering a question. He and I called
on Steve, whom we found fitting a handle
to the woodheap axe. “I suppose I’ve
knocked-this flamin’ thing on half-a-dozen
times to see if I’ve rasped it down far
enough,” Steve growled. “Know any trick
for makin’ it easier?” Jim nodded. “Rub
a bit of candle-grease on the wood and
inside the eye of the head,” he replied.
“She’ll slip on easy then.” Steve tried it
and found it worked. “Funny how a
man’s lived for forty years without learn-
ing that simple trick,” he said. “Next
time I’m in town I’ll buy you a drink.”
■ When he did meet Jim he wasn’t in any
mood for shouting. “Blast it all,” he
roared, “no matter how I wedge it, that
flamin’ axe-head keeps workin’ off.! ”
“They do,” said Jim. “That’s the one
thing against usin’ candle-grease on ’em.”
—“Bogaduck.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“I. Askew”: My neighbor was return-
ing with his family from a day in town
when he was struck by an unusual note
in the bellowing coming from his cattle.
They were milling excitedly around a
newly-born calf, which some of them
were rolling over with their horns.
Though seemingly rough, the treatment
caused no injury to the calf. But why the
strange behavior?
“Swelpme”: No matter how hard the
big-city radio-stations try they can’t
capture the friendly, we’re-all-in-the-
family atmosphere of their more remote
cousins. Admittedly the visitor may be
somewhat startled when solemn music is
succeeded by a subdued, respectful voice
announcing with regret “the passing of
Mr. Jack So-an-so of Whatsitsname,”
but even this has an intimate-gossip
flavor. The local news is about “us,”
and the announcer becomes, in some
subtle, indefinable way, one of us, too —
a bloke, not just a voice. Perhaps it’s
because he “chats” to his audience instead
of “announcing” to them, and behaves
like an ordinary fellow, not a personality.
One casual cuss told his listeners recently;
“It’s my day off to-morrow, and 1 want
to go to Sydney. If anybody should be
going and there’s a vacant seat in the
car —” Of course he got his lift.
“Nimrod”: Fastest of the moths,
the silverwing- or hawk-moth is
one of the most common in nor’-
west Australia, and fascinating to
watch in the evening on its tour
around the garden. Without
alighting it shoots out its probos-
cis with unerring accuracy, straight
to the centre of the floral target,
sips as it hovers, and then, with a
flash of silver, moves on. Admit-
tedly it has a sitting shot, but that
hqvering act beats anything in the
air-fighter line yet invented by
man.
“Gravelsnatcher”; The biggest meteor-
ite ever found in W.A. has just been
sent to the Perth Museum. In inches it
measures roughly 52 by 34 by 30, and it
weighs 57891 b. A meteorite that size
must have caused quite a dent when it
hit, even if that’s all there was of it.
If it’s just a piece of a really large meteor-
ite there should still be some evidence of
the impact; but a trained eye, and pro-"
bably months of searching, would be
needed to find it. Even the big meteorite-
crater at Wolf Creek, south of Hall’s
Creek, isn’t readily recognised as such,
erosion having smoothed and vegetation
clothed it. It wasn’t a depression that
led to the present one’s discovery. The
farmer who found it was scrub-rolling
with a General Grant tank when he
struck the comparatively small boulder.
He knew it was something unusual when
the General stopped dead.
* * * *
“Kerba”: Physio-therapists are well
aware of the effect of salt on water-borne
electricity (B. 12/5/’54). > When a nerve
in the human body is broken the ends
will never knit; but the “fed” end
usually grows down the dead section until
the nerve is complete again and use
returns to the erstwhile paralysed limb.
Nerves, however, grow at the rate of
only one inch a month, so muscles
affected by a severed nerve may be in-
capable of movement for from six to 13
months—depending on the nerve and
where it’s broken. A muscle that is not
used becomes fibrous and fuses into the
surrounding tissue; when that happens
the limb may become permanently para-
“THAT’S what wore out your bilge-pump !"
lysed. To avoid such adhesions and
keep the muscle toned-up until “the
power is on” again, physio-therapists
massage vigorously or apply a schedule of
exercises daily. When a fractured bone
prevents such methods they call upon
electricity. A pair of terminals wrapped
in cloth and dipped in water are placed
on, the ends of the affected muscle, then
quick, stabbing shocks are sent through
until several contractions and relaxations
occur. In bad cases this may take 20
minutes to half an hour; it is then the
physio adds salt to the water before
wetting the terminals. The increased
“bite” has to be felt to be believed. I’m
one who owes a restored right arm to
the treatment, but the process had me
thinking contemptuously of a bee’s puny
efforts at stinging.
“A couple of gallons in this one, Jessie."
' “Shamuseen”: Like “Hampton’s”
cockies (B. 26/5/’54) Christianised
natives of the Torres Straits Islands favor
Biblical nomenclature for their offspring.
Among the older hands there are, how-
ever, many names more suggestive of
rum and bully-twist than bell, book and
candle. As well as a Levis, an Abraham,
a Benjamin or a Melchideseck in a boat’s
crew one would find an occasional Ned
Kelly, Calico, Rope Yam, Odor or,
once, a Billy Hughes. One comely
Binghi used to sign her name quite
neatly as “Lorna O’Cloudy” on her bank-
withdrawal slips. An ordained native
priest was appropriately named “Pilot,”
whilst his brother-in-the-cloth was some-
what ambiguously titled “Captain Oath.”
• * ♦ «
“Scientio”; A weekend fisherman,
capturing off the Victorian coast a brace
of electric-rays (Notastrope fairchildi )
kept them alive, took them home, and
installed them comfortably in a tank, with
the idea of using them to recharge his
car-battery. But nary a volt nor an am-
pere passed in the desired direction; on
the contrary, after many hours of trying,
his final desperate effort brought about
the complete ruination of his battery and
the simultaneous electrocution of the
pelagic dynamos. The fish were male and
female, and consequently generated
negative and positive currents respec-
tively (or v.-v.), which cancelled each
other out. Had he tried, not both fish
together, but one or the other, the result
might have been different. He remains
steadfast in the belief that his method was
sound, but that the Tays generate a.-c.
* * ♦ ♦
“Wire-buster”: Ki-viti boys (ten years
ago, anyway), had an apt name for a lines-
man-ladder —“cumber-cumber,” To any-
one who hasn’t mastered the knack of
throwing a ladder up against a pole, from
the shoulder, the thing can be cumber-
some. Elie and Sam had a routine that
took a good ten minutes. Sam would foot
the ladder while Elie walked it up, start-
ing at the top-end and walking towards
Sam till the ladder stood vertical, and
the wrong-way round. Then Elie would
spin it on one stile, Sam would stand back
and catch it with hands above his head,
holding it vertical while his mate hauled
on the rope to extend the top-half to the
desired position on the pole. But one
morning they over-extended it and rested
it on live wires, current shooting down the
steel stitfening-wires on the back of the
ladder, threw Sam to ground. Sam let
out a startled roar and ran. Elie, not
sure what had happened, took-off in the
Opposite direction to be on the safe side
and the cumber-cumber splintered across
someone’s garden-fence. That little gang
had another word for the ladder after that.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Newsreel-ad. for N.S.W.
Electricity Commission showed farmer,
poor blighter—before electricity came to
his district—settling-down to hear the
news, then stamping off to bed in dis-
gust: batteries flat. Next day he drove
to town in his utility! So much for his
initiative. Years ago we were doing a job
at the foot of the ranges south of Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.). Camped in a hut, our
main amusement during winter came from
an ancient battery-radio. One night it
conked-out when a good programme was
due. The boss always went to bunk
early, his truck was parked near the door
of the hut, and we had enough wire to
extend the leads, so . . . With the pro-
gramme coming through better than it
had for weeks we sat up till we were too
tired to hold our eyes open. After break-
fast next morning the boss decided to
drive in to town for the mail. We never
listened-in on the old set again: a wire-
less doesn’t seem to be much good after
it’s gone flying off a candle-box, out the
doorway, and bump, bump, bumped for
about two-hundred yards behind a truck.
* * * *
Radioactive Old-timers
TPHE discovery in 1896 of spontaneous
atomic disintegration (radioactivity)
among certain elements in the earth’s
crust, and the simple mathematical law
governing the rate of disintegration,
straight away gave the geologists some-
thing they’d only dreamed about—an
accurate clock for determining the age
of the various ancient rocks in which these
elements occur.
Now they’re using a similar method for
estimating the age of fossils and other
organic remains.
All forms of life contain carbon, of
which a minute, but constant, propor-
tion is radioactive. If the ratio of radio-
active carbon to ordinary carbon in an
object is measured, the initial ratio known
and the rate of decay of the radioactive
atoms known, then a fairly precise esti-
mate of its age can be made.
Results of this new technique have in
some cases supported age estimates made
by older methods, but in others have led
to a considerable revision of opinion.
During the construction of Melbourne’s
Spencer-street bridge in 1928 the cutting-
edge of one of the abutment piers, sink-
ing easily through the river silt, met an
obstruction at 63ft. below low-water and
refused to go further. The snag turned
out to be a large tree-stump with an ex-
tensive root-system, plainly telling that
the tree had once grown in that spot.
A diver was called in, and it took
three weeks to cut away the roots and
haul the massive relic to the surface. It
was 4ft. in diameter and weighed two
tons. Redgum.
A small section of this stump, which
looks like a perfectly sound piece of wood
only a few years out of the tree, now lies
in the Melbourne Museum, with a notice
telling its story and giving it a possible
age of 200,000 years. Recently, however,
a piece was tested in the U.S. by the
radioactive carbon method, which indi-
cated an age of between 8500 and 9000
years.
MILLICENT.
THE OLD DESERTED OUT-STATION
It’s lonely here.
Almosi four decades have passed by.
Silently, slowly by,
§i nce ,Jbi s old place last knew inhabitance
Jror fifty years; the random sunbeams glance
Through broken shingles at its dust-deep floors;
its sagging doors
Have long since ceased to swing—
Open or shut they hang disconsolate
From rusty hinge, or lie
In shattered, desiccated rottenness.
Not more, not less
Lonely, neglected, desolate,
Is the old tangled garden lying near,
Where once, no doubt, a lonely stockman’s wife
Grew greens, and flowers perhaps to grace her
life
A little. The old orange-tree
Grown gnarled, distorted, still bears golden
fruit
For none to crave in summer heat : no thing
More eloquently speaks of loneliness,
Of solitariness softly afoot,
Of time-nurtured forgetfulness, than, here
Under its shade, this little grave, mutely
Beseeching recollection to awake:
In mutilation the board at its head
Can but recall a whisper of the dead,
In charred, effaced, inscriptive lettering—
Here Lies—Carrie Died 6—Aged 2 Years
None can recall her other name; the tears
That marked her early passing; when she died,
Or how hazard a simple guess—
Perhaps some forebear of the curious snake
Whose track is brushed across the kitchen
floor.
Struck at her, playing near the kitchen door —
None knows, and soon the slowly passing years
Will hide the knowledge that she lived at all,
And naught at all recall
This little pioneer.
Under the sun the old place dreams away,
Dreams of a better day,
Dreams down to desolation and decay.
It’s lonely here.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


OIL
ROBIEY
WOOL
PRESS
speeds
wool pressing
sdf
OIL HYDRAULIC WOOL PRESSES
are the complete answer to the slow,
laborious and cumbersome operation of
wool pressing.
Robley Hy-speed and Hydra-speed
Woolpresses considerably reduce the
energy required in wool pressing and so
SAVE TIME
Get full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
r.p. BOX 609. Phone 8U5095,
Branches: Newcastle, Lilsmore, Wagga and Hay.
And at Stubbs Street, Hemington, Melbourne, Wl.
BD9.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE
THE FIRST TRAIN TO BE BUILT IN AUSTRALIA
The first train, locomotive and coaches, to he huilt in Australia,
slowly chugged out from the Melbourne terminal in Flinders Street
on 12th Sept., 1854, The Lieut.-G-ovemor raised his hat, the hand
played and the crowd cheered as the train set off on its run to
Sandridge where it was welcomed hy a salute from two warships in
Hohson’s Bay.
The locomotive was of 30 h.p., capable of pulling 130 tons at a
speed of up'to 25 m.p.h.
3e present offers opportunities
no less than the past
Many of the achievements that have contributed to our
Nation’s industrial growth and progress, since the early
days, have been aided by the resources and services of this
Bank.
To-day, we offer a complete and modem banking
service to aid in the further development of progressive
undertakings, both large and small. '
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY UNITED
v/lfh which Is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
THE
ESTABLISHED 1834
jCOR cussedness, what beats the crow?
Maroochy River (Q.) service-boat
delivered a mail-order parcel on the jetty
the other day, and the crows ripped the
paper and scattered contents. They flew
off when the owner appeared, but one
took a baby’s singlet with him, carried
it until he was flying over a sloppy mud-
bank about a hundred yards away—on
the opposite side of the river—then
dropped it. Obviously the foul-natured
bird, narked at finding no bread to pillage,
did it on purpose. —“S. Cane.”
**♦ ’ •
“Muskeen”: When Old Ted fired a
shot at that disappearing “punkin” he was
firing at something that wasn’t there. No
matter how far and fast a vine travels,
the pumpkin on it stays-put in its original
position, even if it grows to the size of a
house.
* * * «
“Kelms”: Aiming to beat ticks in the
Kimberleys, Westralia’s Pastoralists’ Asso-
ciation released a score or so of cattle-
egrets, brought from India; they perch
on cattle and eat the ticks. That was 20
years ago, and nothing further was heard
about the birds till a couple of years back,
when an American ornithologist shot
one in the Northern Territory. He thought
he’d found a new bird., Lately, birds very
like them have been seen perching on
cattle 20-odd miles north of Perth, at
Wanneroo. Until one is captured positive
identification is impossible, because in
the field the cattle-egret looks rather like
a variety of the reef-heron, found all
around the Westralian coast. In fact, these
birds would have been accepted as reef-
herons but for their habit of perching on
cattle and eating flies. If the cattle-egrets
have come so far south it won’t have
been in search of their natural food, the
tick. Either they’ve been driven from the
Kimberleys by some unsuspected enemy
or they’ve found the south —and flies
more to their liking.
♦ * * *
“Horncastle”; All the way I’m with
the earnest councillor in a W.Q. shire
who, thumping the table at a council
meeting, declared; “What this town
needs is a better supply of clean fresh
milk, and the council should take the
bull by the horns and demand it!”
“Dustman”; If “Brick
E.’s” brick-carters look
fantastic with “a frilly
little crinoline” around
the bottom of their legs
(B. 19/5/’54), I ask him
to consider the spectacle
of coalminers wearing
veils. No, I didn’t say
they do. But it’s a possi-
bility. Coalminers, I’m
told, develop a charac-
teristic “coal stripe” on
the forehead, caused by
thin splinters of flying
coal piercing the skin.
Coal which penetrates the
skin keeps its color and
doesn’t work out, hence
the stripe. The forehead
seems to be the target for
most of the splinters, and
it’s time someone thought
of wearing a veil to
protect it.
“Fairf”; If migratory swallows return
en masse with calendar precision else-
where, as reputed, around this eastern
N.S.W. locality they don’t seem to know
the rules. Every morning I see a dozen
sitting in the same place on an electricity-
wire, obviously enjoying the frost even
less than I. They stuck it out all last
winter in the same place—a minority
which apparently didn’t conform to mass-
thinking. But then, our swogs are much
less predictable than most birds. When
nesting they are essentially individualists
—I’ve never seen two nests in close
proximity—but in summer every swallow
in the district seems to congregate at the
community roost, on one particular
stretch of power-line.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: A contractor I once worked
for also evolved a simple method of
defrauding shire councils (B. 21/4/’54).
His contract stipulated that all trees had
to be grubbed to a depth of 3ft. He
had the trees cut at ground-level and
shifted all the chips away from the site
"Hang on, Mac! It'll take a while to slow down.”
to a treeless area. When the gravel was
spread, the road-engineer, sounding with
his probe, would prod into the surface
where he thought the tree had been felled.
Not striking wood, he was satisfied the
stump had been grubbed-out to the
required depth.
* * ♦ ♦
“G.1.H.”: “Mark Thru Star” (B.
12/5/’54) has solved a problem that has
intrigued me off and on for 50 years—
why bullets overhead make a cracking
noise. He says it is when they break the
sound-barrier. In South Africa we, too,
thought the enemy was using explosive-
bullets. Can he explain why a Mauser
rifle has a double report —from a distance
plick-plock —while a Lee-Enfield makes
only the one sharp sound?
♦ ♦ • *
“W.J.W.”: An Auckland (N.Z.) meat-
exporter was lately reported to have flown
to Sydney in search of a Mohammedan
priest who’d take a job in his slaughter-
yard. He wanted to export beef to Muslim
countries, where it wouldn’t be accepted
unless the cattle were killed according to
religious rites. But I’m sure that method of
killing wouldn’t be permitted in N.Z., or
in Australia, either. beast is thrown
before its throat is cut, and the priest
stands over the struggling animal and
reads verses from the Koran while its life-
blood flows. The animal may take up to
15 minutes to die, and sometimes it’s
skinned before it’s dead.
THE PICCANINNY THOUGHTS
She might have chosen cities; but the man,
Compelled to see the pastures of his soul
Stocked with dream cattle,
Turned north and west and sunwards to his goal
Under the freckled lightning of the wattle.
Over the years the piccaninny thoughts
And timid lubra words became so shy
Of their own thunder,
They never spoke together but his eye
Would find in, hers a startled twin of wonder.
N.S.W.
THEA ASTLEY.


Mu
I
without FAG!
WITH A
gm, gWm| mmamWwm
dtsl
£23/io/-'
personal portable
Handsome
carrying case,
65/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thonsands of country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doina
the books. Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Contex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy
m £.s.d„ whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice
Wri,e ,0 CHARTRES Lld
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
BKISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
'Buojft eiuioß nut
—OZSI ajog
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
jw, ta 6M.*M
Business Rollery Etc.
Prospects for 1954-55
the Menzies-Fadden
_ Government back, the
immediate future of industrial
Australia holds little of a dis-
turbing nature. Whatever
problems arise, they are likely
to be met in a rational way, and
with regard to long-term results.
There may be some
concern about competition
from imports later in the
year, especially on the part of
textile-manufacturers. To study
another example, in the home-
appliance industry, demand for
refrigerators is still keen, though
supply is slowly catching up with
demand. Local competition is
growing keener, and there has
ibeen some price-cutting. If
import-restrictions are completely
lifted, some overseas competition
is likely to be felt later on.
The same general conditions
’ seem to apply to washing-
machines and radios, though the
radio business has not had the
big lift in sales that was experi-
enced in the refrigerator and
washing-machine industry over
the past 18 months, when
consumer - credit organisations
kept pace with manufacturing
activity.
A touch of overseas competi-
tion is likely to be felt among a
number of manufacturers as time
goes by, but, basically, Australian
industries should remain busy.
There is already a shortage of
some building materials (mostly
of the plumbing type). The steel
and cement industries have still a
backlog of orders to meet, tak-
ing a Commonwealth-wide view.
Building activity is likely to
increase, especially if costs
remain stable, and industries
dependent on building should be
correspondingly occupied.
Generally, an improved rate
of production per worker, helped
by the freezing of the basic wage,
has resulted in a reduction in
costs in many industries. Un-
interrupted supplies of electricity
and raw materials have also
helped. It is reported that aver-
age output per worker in Aus-
tralia has never been exceeded,
which would imply that the
adverse effect of the 40-hour
week has been overcome. But in
1948, when the hours-reduction
took place, the rate of output
was not good.
Still, not for many years has the
industrial position been so sound.
There is far more balance in the
economy than at any time in the
past 15 years, and, while output
may temporarily catch up with
demand in some cases within the
next 12 months, any such pause
may result in the building of a
platform for a greater national
construction programme later on.
With costs stable, any surplus
labor or suitable manufacturing
capacity can be turned over to
national works that ■ are badly
needed.
Wool prices are firm, though
the season is patchy. The indus-
trial position, the export-import
position, and prospects of
reduced tax-rates in the next
Budget give rise to hopes of
generally favorable economic
conditions during 1954-55.
The Bottom of the Well
“P. Mobile”: When the oil
boom was at its crest, most of
the Press painted glowing
pictures of pipelines, tank-farms
and refineries, followed by cities
in the wilderness, founded and
flourishing on the magic of black
gold. Except in these columns,
the cautionary note was almost
absent.
None can claim that the boom-
wave has degenerated into a
dumper, and the stockmarkets
still quote most oil shares at
neary their boom-inflated prices;
but the Press (with particular
reference to the Sunday section)
is now singularly devoid of
articles dealing with petroleum
prospects which were given such
prominence at the beginning of
the year.
The authoritative opinions of
Mr. N, B. Sauve—former chief
geophysicist of Vacuum Oil and
now general manager to Frome-
" A great contribution to our literature, Mr. Mulloway—
we'll be honored to publish it for £l500 cash."
Broken Hill —given over the air
on May 28 received scarcely a
mention. They are, however,
well worth repeating as those of
one of the few experts in Aus-
tralia with long experiences on
producing fields. The prospects
of finding payable oil here are
described by him as marginal,
and he very wisely sounds a
warning note:
You don’t ftnd oil Just by going
and having a look at the country and
then going away again; but that is
what has been happening here.
Mr. Sauve points out that
shows of petroleum have been
obtained at three corners of a
triangle embracing the Australian
mainland Papua, Lakes
Entrance and Rough Range—
but its oil-potential would be
determined only by long and
painstaking searches. He is too
modest to add that such searches
without an oil-wise geologist in
charge have every chance of
being more painstaking than
successful. He quotes Roma as
being one of the few Australian
localities where an exhaustive
search has been made.
In striking contrast with Mr.
Sauve’s cautious appraisal is the
optimistic estimate of the Papuan
oil potential given by Dr, H.
Raggatt at a meeting of the Aus-
tralasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy in Sydney on June 2.
The Papuan oil situation was
summed-up in a searching and
candid statement made last year
by the one company then operat-
ing there, which was—and is—
the only organisation with any
reasonable prospect of overcom-
ing the enormous technical and
financial handicaps associated
with the deep drilling now known
to be necessary before com-
mercial oil be reached.
Nothing has happened in the
meantime to justify the abound-
ing optimism of Dr. Raggatt.
Edwards, Dunlop
In B. 5/5/’54 it was com-
mented that shareholders in
Edwards, Dunlop got their
income the hard way—new issues
at a premium of 10s. to 295. on
the 20s. shares, and the div. kept
at 12£ p.c. for the past four
years. For a long time it has
been a matter of “tomorrow”
when thinking of benefits from
Edwards, Dunlop. Well, to-
morrow has at last arrived. The
div. has gone up to 15 p.c., the
final quarterly being 5.625 p.c.
(payable June 25), compared
with three quarterly interims of
3i p.c. The sharemarket was
pleasantly surprised, the “old”
shares jumping from 555. to
615., to yield 5 p.c., allowing for
the accrued div.
Canada Dry
Canada Dry (Aust. and N.Z.),
Ltd., is unable to meet its current
commitments, and the bank is
appointing a receiver.
W. C. Stevens (Holdings)
W. C. Stevens (Holdings),
Ltd., ords. have had a good run
on Sydney ’Change since the
public was offered 100,000 of
the 350,000 £1 ords. at par in
November, 1953. The stock-
units last sold at 295. 3d., to
yield 6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The co. has two manu-
factoring divisions: automotive
(the largest manufacturer of
exhaust-systems in Australia)
and refrigeration (making sheet-
metal cabinet parts for the
Crosley refrigerator and com-
ponents for the Kirby refrigera-
tor sealed-units, which are used
by manufacturers throughout
Australia). Earnings for the five
years to June 30, 1953, averaged
12.3 p.c. on present capital. For
the final year of the period the
figure was 20.8 p.c. During the
term which will close at the end
of this month, judging by car
and refrigerator sales, the co.’s
turnover should be a record, and
the new Arnclilfe factory should
be helping production by now.
The co. is well regarded in the
engineering trades.
Hastings Diesels, Ltd.
The offer of 300,000 £1 ords.
shares at par by Hastings Diesels,
Ltd., was soon oversubscribed.
The co. was formed in Sep-
tember, 1947, as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Hasting Deering
Building, Ltd. Its paid-up capital
had grown to £325,000 by
December, 1952. Then 303,45
£1 ords. were taken up by publ
subscriptipn, making paid capita
£628,455 just before the presen
issue was offered. A dividend o
12£ p.c. p.a. was paid in respe
of the year to August 31, 1953.
Hastings Diesels and i
subsidiary, Deerin
(Queensland) Pty., Ltd., distr
bute Caterpillar tractors anc
earthmoving equipment and Joh
Deere tractors and agricultura
equipment in Queensland, th
N.T., Papua, the Mandatec
Territory and the south-wes
Pacific Islands. The parent als
handles Lima and Michiga
cranes, power-shovels and drag
lines and other types of minin
and agricultural machinery
throughout Australia, anc
operates the Hastings Deering
Beef Research Reserves in the
N.T.
Consolidated profit for the
year to August 31, 1953, wa
£71,977, which included only
eight months’ trading of the
Queensland subsidiary. Since
then the rate of profit-earning has
increased, the prospectus says.
A 10 p.c. div, on the capital as
it will stand after the present
issue is completed would be in
the vicinity of £lOO,OOO in a full
year. A 12| p.c. distribution
would require something like
£125,000.
The co.’s franchises are very
good ones; companies handling
them in other States have done
extremely well.- The Hastings-
Deering organisation is second to
none in salesmanship, and the
Diesels enterprise should con-
solidate financially as it settles
down. Net tangible backing per
£1 ord. share is about 20s. 6d.
Westland Oil
Westland Oil Co., which has
an oil-prospecting permit cover-
ing an area to the south of Long-
reach (Q.), is making a pre-
liminary issue of 200,000 shares
each of 2s. for the purpose of
permitting the registration of the
cq. in New South Wales and
Queensland, pending the issue of
the prospectus. A draft of the
prospectus has been submitted
to the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment.
The vendor’s consideration will
be paid only if a flow of oil is
discovered in payable quantities
(the term “payable” as defined in
Section 3 of the Petroleum Acts
1923-1950 Queensland).


Missing Friends
COLIN O’KEEFE, Son of Thomas O’Keefe,
late of Piangil, in the State of
Farmer, deceased. If the abovenamed
contacts MESSRS. GARDEN & GREEN.
Solicitors, Swan Hill, he will hear some-
thing to his advantage.
UNA O’KEEFE, Daughter of Thomas
O’Keefe, late of Piangil, in the State ot
Victoria, Farmer, deceased. If the above-
named contacts MESSRS. GARDEN &
GREEN, Solicitors, Swan Hill, she will
hear something to her advantage.
ARTHUR TRIGGER, formerly of Mac-
arthur, in Victoria. Will the abovenamed
or any person knowing his whereabouts
or about to give any information regard-
ing him please communicate with
MESSRS. WESTAOOTT & LORD, Solici-
tors, Hamilton, Victoria, when the said
Arthur Trigger will hear of matters to
his advantage. » .
Wanted
Whereabouts of LESLIE CYRIL (or
CERRIL) CLOSE, who left Tasmania for
Victoria about 15 to 20 years ago. Be-
lieved to have been a Commercial Travel-
ler in Victoria at one time. Write direct
to DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE. Public
Trust Office, New Plymouth, New Zealand.
Public Notice
I, MANUEL RODRIGUES DE FREITAS,
of Portuguese nationality, bom at Madeira,
Portugal, resident six yea,rs in Australia,
now residing at 60 Liverpool Street,
Padindgton, intend to, apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR NORMAN STRATTON late
of Blenheim Road North Ryde.—TAKE
NOTICE that ENID MARJORY STRAT-
TON has filed Petition No. 1741 of 1954
for Divorce on the grounds of desertion
for 3 years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry King Street Sydney by
the 14th September 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HUNT AND HUNT, Solicitors, 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMES,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL CHARLES NEWMAN late of
Hotham Road Greys Point near Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY KATH-,
LEEN NEWMAN has filed a petition for
divorce No. 628 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 13th August
1954 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from D. G. STUART,
Solicitor, of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
tF politics are allowed to
intrude upon other fields there
is usually trouble. But when
international politics get them-
selves mixed up with the arts, the
outcome can range from the
downright absurd to the highly
uncomfortable.
Did not the Nazi delegation
walk out of a recital because the
distinguished Eastern European
tenor was a Jew? Was not the
public performance of works by
the German masters banned dur-
ing the Kaiser’s war,? And are
conscientious and single-minded
artists to be damned for ever
because they have performed
before occupational troops?
The questions are no longer
topical except, in a lingering way,
for the last one. Yet the French
Government a week or two ago
must have suffered disquieting
thoughts before it decided to
cancel the appearance of the
Bolshoi Ballet (with Ulanova) in
Paris, particularly as their own
Comddie had just
returned from an immensely
popular season in Moscow.
Feelers were put out from
London with a view to bringing
the Bolshoi company here, and it
is understood that the Foreign
Office preferred not to comment,
treating the affair as a matter for
the theatre, not for high policy.
Yet there is also a whisper to the
effect that official circles, fearing
to upset France, viewed the
project with disfavor.
Meanwhile, during this same
period of apprehension over
possible anti-Communist demon-
strations in Paris, the Moscow
State Dance Company,
“Beryozka,” has been appearing
without incident to full houses
at the Stoll Theatre, Kingsway,
London.
For the record, their perform-
ance has been warmly received
by the Press, from the “Worker”
to the “Times.” Of course, the
“Worker” views this innovation
as a second renaissance, an
there was much to suggest that
a large proportion of the audi-
ence derived its enthusiasm
principally from political
sympathies.
The impresario, Peter
Daubeny, is nothing if not inter-
national. He has brought to us,
among others, Italian opera and
Yugoslavian dancers. And he
has been after the Russians for
a long time. Eventually he was
summoned to Holland to meet
emissaries from Moscow. There
were no snags, no awkward
negotiations. Only a long delay.
This, it is believed, was mere
red-tape due to waiting for His
Omnipotence, the Minister of
Culture, to give assent. Perhaps
he was swayed by the intercession
of the British Soviet Friendship
Society (“a non-party organisa-
tion dedicated to the fulfilment
of our Twenty-year Treaty of
Alliance with the U.5.5.R.,” and,
it may be added, having as secre-
tary a well-known Communist).
That’s by the way. The com-
pany, excepting the balalaika-
player and four accordionists, is
all women and of high accom-
plishment. The dances are rather
of a sameness, but the dancers
technique is superb. The staging
is tasteful and expert. There is a
naive simplicity about the per-
formance that is affecting, but
the items are so deliberately pro-
letarian as rather to suggest the
Philharmonia Orchestra playing
for square-dancing at Sadler’s
Wells. An instance, maybe, of
thorough professional direction
and artistic experience applied to
peasant merrymaking.
The B.S.F.S. has rather fussily
mothered the company, housing
them in one hotel and piloting
them about in two coaches. On
one Sunday they took them to
Canterbury to see the ancient
city and be entertained by the
Dean of that diocese. A visit
to the Houses of Parliament had
a similar unofficial touch. This
time Mr. Sydney Silverman
showed them round.
Whether the day will come
when these artistic exchanges are
free of inhibitions remains to be
seen. But the idea of, say, the
Covent Garden Ballet being
shepherded about Moscow by
those far to the “Left” of the
Soviet .seems as incongruous as
their being sponsored by the
Society for Un-American Acti-
vities and monopolised by
Senator McCarthy.
Truant Disposition
“The Facts of Life” (Duke of
York’s Theatre) appears, on first
impression, to have been written
in too big a hurry. The basic
idea, though original and
unusual, is too thin to allow of
thematic variation oyer four
scenes. For the first third of its
length the comedy springs
naturally from the situations and
is effervescent as a spring holiday.
Thenceforward the gay bubbling
invention slowly deteriorates into
short-of-breath stagey contriv-
ances, even to generous dollops
of sex for the plebs (including
one execrable lapse of taste), and
to music-hall rudery between a
faded tragedienne and (of all
people!) a member of the
M.C.C.
The 13-year-old son of a plod-
ding actor and his unexceptional
wife disappears from noon until
late-night every Wednesday and
Saturday. What is he up to? Is
it crime? Sexual precocity? But
young Jonathan (played with
astonishing nonchalance and
resolute deception by Lance
Secretan) never bats an eyelid
in his defiant evasion of parental
questions.
His “secret” is one that audi-
ences are expected to keep to
themselves, but its nature is clear
from the early scenes. It is to
do with making money quickly,
legitimately and in fantastic
sums. The overworked suspense
becomes unbearable and leads to
a “click” curtain that properly
belongs to revue.
So far from having been
written hurriedly, the true
circumstances were, it appears,
the very reverse. Mr. Mac-
Dougall has had the terrible mis-
fortune, following the five-figure
success of “Escapade,” to fall ill
from a nervous complaint that
has resulted in paralysis and
almost total blindness. The new
play was, in fact, laboriously
dictated.
To be able to say that he has
contrived to purvey a still-
generous measure of fun is no
small tribute to his determina-
tion and high courage. It is good
news tjrat he is slowly recovering.
Given better health—and less
cause for “writing-down”—his
next comedy may be expected to
speak for itself, without quali-
fication.
Old Vic. Finale
When these notes appear, the
Old Vic. season will have ended
and the company will be prepar-
ing for its most-cherished honor
—to present “Hamlet” at
Elsinore.
There have been previous
visits, but none so well-
nourished by triumph as this one.
In the present state of the English
theatre (and, for that matter, the
American theatre), the Vic.
stands unique and unchallenged.
Thanks to an adequate, though
not overgenerous, subsidy it
manages to subsist on top-class
repertory. (Across the river a
medium-length run is a rarity.
A play either comes off after
six nights or runs for a year or
more.) The standard of attain-
ment for the most part is as high
as the degree of effort. Tradi-
tion —perhaps the most impelling
force of all —welds international
film-stars, working for a pittance,
into the same proud team as
promising unknowns. And,
lastly, the Old Vic. Trust is
neither parochial nor metro-
politan; it purports, and sets
out, to serve the world.
During the late war, and early
post-war, years the Vic. got
rather out of hand. A marriage
of convenience with the West
End resulted in loss of character
and sullied artistic, virtue. Then
followed administrative _ dissen-
sion and serious maladjustment
in casting. There were times,
too, when the theatre seemed to
be living on its reputation.
Much credit is due to the
administrators, for putting them-
selves out to serve the public,
and to the producers, for inspir-
ing the players, during the past
two seasons. The Vic.’s prestige
has not merely been regained;
it has been re-created.
A very splendid, spectacular
and easy-to-follow production of
“The Tempest” wound up the
season. It was part gala, part
pantomime with an abundance
of visual effects. A more
realistic rough sea has never been
witnessed on the stage. Some of
the play is not especially theatre-
worthy and the first part seemed
unconscionably long, being
extended to Act IV Sc. i, to
include a masque, Juno rising
from the earth, a most bizarre
feast and a rousing “curtain.”
The comic scenes, often in the
past so crudely end-of-term, were
richly pointed. Claire Bloom’s
Miranda was characteristically
pure and sweet, if somewhat
over - earnest, and Richard
Burton’s Caliban muscular,
anthropoidal and unpathetic;
Robert Hardy made a good all-
purpose Ariel. Michael Hordern
set the seal on his outstanding
personal success by * investing
Prospero, if not with magic, at
least with serenity, power and
compassion.
Incidental music to
Shakspeare, specially composed
for the occasion by the elite of
our musical intelligentsia, merits
separate critical assessment. Too
often, to the mere playgoer, it
sounds like a mock battle. But
on this occasion Malcolm
Arnold has contributed music
that is apt, unobtrusive and
pleasant to the ear.
COMPANY REPORT
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED
INCREASED OUTRUT AND EFFICIENCY
Reduces Incidence of Lower Metal Prices
The eighteenth annual general meeting of New Broken Hill
Consolidated Limited will be held on June 23rd, at 37 Dover Street,
London, W.l.
The following is the statement by
the Chairman, Mr. John R. Govett,
which has been circulated with the
report and accounts for the year
ended December 31st, 1953.
The profit for the year 1953,
before providing for taxation,
amounted to £677,922, compared
with £818,780 for 1952. Due to in-
creased output and improved effici-
ency of the mine, this reduction of
£140,858 is relatively small having
regard to the heavy fall in the
prices of lead and zinc. Production
of ore was 405,629 tons for 1953,
compared with 239,922 for 1952, an
increase of 69.1 per cent.; in con-
trast to this, total costs for the
year were £2,676,424, compared with
£2,133,287 for 1952, an increase of
only 25.4 per cent. The profit has
been arrived at after providing
£277,400 for depreciation, as against
£245,600 in 1952.
The charge for taxation amounts
to £264,660. This leaves a net
profit for the year of £413,262, a
reduction of £144,758 on the profit
for 1952.
The Board have decided to trans-
fer the sum of £250,000 to Genial
Reserve, compared with £400,000 in
1952. An interim dividend of 9d.
per share was declared in November
1953 and the Board now recommend
that a final dividend of 9d. per
share be paid, making a total dis-
tribution for the year of Is. 6d. per
share, the same as for 1952. An
amount of £36,987 has been trans-
ferred from provision for taxation,
being in excess of requirements for
previous years and the surplus car-
ried forward is £257,187.
Capital expenditure, although
lower than in 1952, was again a
considerable figure, £526,068 being
spent on mine development, includ-
ing shaft sinking, and £318,873 on
machinery, plant, buildings and
equipment, giving a total of
£844,941.
PRODUCTION;
Productive operations were car-
ried out on 241 days during the
year 1953. The rate of production
per operating day was 1,683 tons
compared with 1,045 tons in 1952,
and in the last period of 20 days in
1953 the average number of tons
mined per day reached the record
figure of 2,153 tons.
Ore production from the Com-
pany’s leases in 1953 totalled
405,629 tons compared with 239,922
tons in 1952. There was an improve-
ment in grade of lead, silver and
zinc mined, due to an increase in
production from No. 19 Level and to
closer grade control on all levels.
Sloping efficiency showed an excel-
lent all-round increase from 8.06
tons per stoping-miner-shift In 1951
and 8.20 tons in 1952 to 12.61 tons
in 1953. The tonnage milled in
1953 amounted to 403,662 tons, as
against 235,478 tons in 1952.
Pending completion of the service
shaft, the supply of ore to the
Company’s own mill continues to be
limited to the hoisting capacity of
the haulage shaft on a one-shift-per-
day basis, the balance of the ore
being hoisted through the Zinc
Corporation’s main shaft. In 1953,
227,850 tons out of the above total
of 403,662 tons were treated in
the Company’s mill, and the remain- '
ing 175,812 tons in the Zinc
Corporation’s Mill. The return of
ore to the Zinc Corporation under
the Sale of Ore Agreement has by
mutual agreement been indefinitely
postponed.
The expansion of ore reserves con-
tinues satisfactorily, and as well,
the grade of reserves fully outlined
has been slightly improved during
the year. The total ore reserves as
at 31st December, 1953, amounted
to 2,500,000 tons, assaying 10% lead,
2.70z5. silver and 11.4% zinc com-
pared with 2,400,000 tons assaying
10.6% lead, 2.6% silver and 10.9%
zinc. The sinking of the service
shaft, which has been delayed owing
to the difficult ground conditions re-
ferred to in earlier statements, was
completed early this year to a
depth of 3,194 feet, or 28 feet below
No. 22 Level. Development has
been concentrated on the Service
Winze extension from No. 19 to
No. 20 Level, the Opening up of
stopes on No. 19 Level, the Under-
ground Crusher Station and Main
Ore Pass (Nos. 19-22 Levels), No. 2
Airway Extension, the preparation
of Nos. 14-16 Levels Trial Sub-Level
Stope, and The Exploratory Drive
South.
Development and diamond drilling
had, at the end of the year, reached
a stage permitting an appraisal of
the tonnages reasonably to be ex-
ected in the first 1,500 feet south of
the Zinc Corporation boundary down
to the horizon of the No. 22 Level.
This indicates that in this section
of the Company’s leases, it would
be reasonable to expect at least 16
million tons of ore of an average
grade of the order of 11 per cent,
lead, 3 ounces silver and 12 per cent,
zinc. These figures, which include
the tonnage stated above as ore
reserves, would be sufficient for
approximately thirty years produc-
tion at an annual rate of 540,000
tons.
COMPLETION OF SURFACE
WORKS PROGRAMME:
The end of the year saw the
virtual completion -of the original
programme of surface construction.
Plans are being prepared to increase
the capacity of the mill from the
present 360,000 tons per annum to
540,000 tons per annum to meet the
higher planned production of ore.
The No. 2 Airway, which provides
upcast airway facilities for both
the Zinc Corporation and New
Broken Hill Consolidated, was com-
pleted and the axial flow fan, cap-
able of exhausting 900,000 cu. ft.
per minute, commenced operating in
January, 1954. The concrete head-
frame over the service shaft and the
sub-surface plats were completed
during the year, and the 900 h.p.
auxiliary winder in the main winder
house has also been installed. The
two motor generator sets have oper-
ated under full load conditions fol-
lowing modifications by the manu-
facturers. i
EMPLOYERS AND INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS:
I am glad to be able to record,
for the fourth year in succession,
that the past year was free of any
fatal accident on the Company’s
leases. This reflects great credit
on our management at Broken Hil?
as well as on our staff and em-
ployees who have all made an excel-
lent response in their efforts t®
improve the accident record by in-
tensive safety measures throughout
the whole range of our operations.
The new Industrial Agreement
negotiated last year has operated
very satisfactorily. The provisions
for long-service leave, which were
introduced into the Broken Hill field
by the current agreement, are work-
ing well in practice.
At the close of the year the
number of employees had increased
to 801 compared with 729 at the
end of 1952. The provision of
additional trained men to meet the
requirements of our increased pro-
duction programme continues to be a
problem. This problem will, how-
ever, be relieved by the excellent in-
crease in underground efficiency
noted earlier in my statement, and
which I am pleased to say, has
been even further improved in the
first periods of 1954. The pro-
gress made in this respect with
such advantage to our employees,
and on which depends the security
of our undertaking and the stand-
ard of employment it can maintain,
has been due to the enthusiastic
support by our staff and all em-
ployees of the policy of full mech-
anisation, training, methods study
and operation research. It gives me
pleasure to express here to the
management at Broken Hill and the
staff and employees, the Board’s
appreciation of the results that are
being achieved.
CONCLUSION:
As regards the markets for our
products, I would refer you to the
statement I am making to the
members of The Consolidated Zinc
Corporation Limited.
The year 1953 has been notable
for the marked increase in operat-
ing efficiency to which I have
already referred. This resulted in a
production exceeding even the
original long-term budget for 1955;
and the consequent improvement in
overall costs, coupled with the suc-
cess achieved in disposing of almost
the whole of our output, brought a
large measure of compensation for
the sharp decline in prices as com-
pared with 1952. While in this cur-
rent year we confidently anticipate a
further increase in efficiency, we
are nearly at the limit of tonnage
and grade pending the full opera-
tion of the service shaft, and the
results for the year will depend
mainly on the course of metal prices.
In my statement to you last year
I referred to the difficulty in
estimating how much we might be
able to retain in the business out of
revenue to meet the balance of
capital expenditure for the comple-
tion of our programme* and I expres-
sed the hope that we should be
able to achieve this without having
recourse to further permanent
financing. However, in view of the
continued uncertainty as to the
future of metal prices, it was later
considered desirable to obtain by an
issue of Unsecured Loan Stock the
further finance required to complete
the programme with some additional
development and equipment as now
planned. The ready response which
the shareholders of the Company
and of The Consolidated Zinc
Corporation Limited made to this
issue has been very encouraging,
and the proceeds of the issue are
expected to provide sufficient funds
to complete the programme and
also to cover all other expediture
Which we can at present foresee.
In the prospectus relating to the
issue of the Unsecured Loan Stock
it was stated that unless there
should be an increase in the prices
of lead and zinc (compared with
last year) it is unlikely that the
profit for 1954 will show any
improvement over 1953; and that in
1955 and 1956, assuming the con-
tinuance of the 1953 average level
of prices of metals relative to other
commodities and services, there
should be a substantial increase in
profits, not only because of the
higher planned output, but also of
the somewhat higher average lead
content of the ore scheduled for
extraction in those years. In the
time which has elapsed since the
prospectus was issued nothing has
occurred to qualify the views expres-
sed, and I would, therefore, repeat
them here with the warning that
the future level of metal prices is
a matter op which I make no
prophecy. , , ,
I have paid tribute to the excel-
lent service of the staff and
employees at Broken Hill, but must
also express our thanks to those
elsewhere in Australia and in Lon-
don who have contributed so much
to the success of the year’s opera-
tions. Since the development of the
Mine ■was resumed after the end of
the war, our undertaking has grown
to become the second largest pro-
ducer of ore in the Broken Hill field,
and this is an achievement of which
I feel we can all be Justly proud.


Discussion of your needs—in complete
confidence —is cordially invited. Call
or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors,
Trustees:’’
A SERVICE OF GREAT VALUE TO
Business and Professional Men
To the man who has acquired valuable business
interests and seeks an assurance that there will
be no dislocation or la'ck of efficient control
after his death, Union Trustee provides the
solution.
By appointing Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney, such a man
ensures sympathetic, efficient administration
of all his business and individual requirements
and the future security of his Estate.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COM FAN* OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated la Victoria) Established 188 S
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bums, Philp and Co., Ltd.
TN order of profitability the main divi-
. sions of this big and widespread organ-
isation, whose scrip is one of the “blue-
chip” stocks on the market, are mer-
chandising and agency, investment in a
wide range of subsidiary and other cos.,
etc., and shipping. Operations extend
throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand, out over the south-west Pacific
and north to New Guinea and Singapore.
There are also branches at London and
San Francisco, ,
Since the beginning of this century the
co. has moved from strength to strength,
the growth being most marked over the
last decade, when inflationary influences,
now largely curbed, helped to boost the
figures. Moreover, the management has
always shown a flair for adapting the
business to fundamental changes in trad-
ing conditions. Hence the gradual switch
in emphasis from shipping—once the
backbone of the business, but now a lame
duck—to merchandising and investment,
especially in country and other stores.
Shareholders received divs. averaging
7.8 p.c. for the 19 years to 1919, followed
by a steady 10 p.c. for the 29 years to
1948, then Hi p.c., three lots of 12i p.c.
and two of 10 p.c. to the close of last
accounts. And, since 1911, the distribu-
tions have been sweetened with £592,500
of bonus-scrip and £2,107,500 of cash-
paid capital issued at par, thus raising the
total on the register to £3,000,000, which
had the support and assistance of
£5,446,745’ of reserves at March 31 last.
The div, was lowered from 12i p.c. to
10 p.c. not because insufficient was
earned to pay the higher rate, but because
money is wanted partly to help finance
modernisation and expansion, and partly
for replacement of shipping tonnage.
Over the next 20 years, the board says,
about £6,000,000 may have to be found
out of earnings for renewal of ships in
the island and Singapore trade. Other
sections of the business will have to pro-
vide a substantial part of this money,
because returns from shipping alone are
insufficient for the purpose. Still, ship-
ping is so interwoven with the business as
a whole that “we must try to carry on,”
the chairman says. Last term the Merkur
was sold at an unstated figure for break-
ing-up, and a small motor vessel to
replace the Tulagi, lost during the war,
was ordered at a cost of about £500,000.
The year to March 31 last was more
prosperous than the growth of £16,266 in
declared profit would suggest:
.. , To Rfr- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1949.. 344,280 llip.c. = 226,000 1 f
To staff fund, £56,156 J 63,124 8,698,747
From inner reserves, £717,819.. 4,416,566
1950.. 362.599 12*p.c.= 250,000 )
To staff fund, £59,864.. j 52,735 4,469,801
Unexplained addition, £111,639 4,580,940
1951.. 385,684 12Jp.c. = 250,000 1 fis ... , ... ...
To staff fund, £70,420 / 65.264 4,646,204
Unexplained reduction, £85,380 4,560,824
1952.. 408,125 12Jp.c. = 296,875 \ .. ... , ... ...
To staff fund, £75,390 / 85.860 4,596,684
Unexplained addition, £284,631.. 4,881,315
1953. . 378,152 10 p.c.fc 287,486 .. ... . ... ...
To staff fund, £24,796 f 65 ’ 870 4,947,185
To replacement re., etc., £430,231 5,37*7,416
1954. , 394,418 10 p.c. = 299,993 1 ooa n aa R
Staff fund. £25,096 ../ 60.829 5,446.745
The £394,418 of profit claimed was 13.1
p.c. on average capital compared with
13.1, 17.2, 19.3, 18.1 and 17.2 p,c. back to
1949. On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) it was only 4.6 p.c.
The figure was written, however, after
dropping £430,231 into the tonnage-
replacement and other reserves (now
£3,667,997). The bulk of the increase
was “provisions for doubtful debts and
tonnage replacement,” and was a charge
against the year’s earnings. Gross profit
(£2,157,222) increased by £227,108. In-
cluding provisions for doubtful debts,
taxation and tonnage replacement, exes.
(£1,464,111) shot up by £309,434. The
allowance for depreciation was £98,592
lighter at £298,693. A substantial part of
the growth in exes, appears to have been
actually an appropriation of net profit.
Most of the co.’s branches and country
stores are reported to have done well, and
improved net earnings was the general
experience of shipping. Principal subsi-
diaries are Penneys, Burns Philp (South
Seas), Burns Philp (New Guinea) and
Murray Bros. (Parramatta). The parent
passed its flourishing chain-store business
in Queensland and northern N. S. Wales
to a new and wholly-owned subsidiary,
Penneys, Ltd., in 1952. This offshoot,
which has a paid capital of £1,787,534
and a share-premium reserve of
£1,078,477, netted £180,806 and paid 10
p.c. for the year to June 30, 1953.
Movements in assets mainly reflect the
allowance for depreciation and big addi-
tion to reserves;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. £2,783,996 £2,999,825 £3,000,000
Reserves .. 4,596,684 4,947,185 5,446,745
Liabilities .. 5,331,969 4,267,109 4,285,447
Final dividends 166,250 149,991 150,000
£12,818,899 £12,364,110 £12,882,192
Properties and
shipping .. 3,567,466 2,202,682 1,919,260
Investments* .. ’ 3,499,508 6,646,735 7,326,554
Stock, etc. .. 8,370,928 1,705,242 1.635,042
Book debts .. 2,237,658 1,607,272 1,647,333
Cash .. .. 143,349 202,229 354.003
£12,818,899 £12,364,110 £12,882,192
* Includes an unstated amount Govt, bonds.
The book-value of properties and ship-
ping was reduced by £283,372, and invest-
ments increased by £679,819, due mainly
to “purchase of Commonwealth bonds
and shares in other cos.” Shares in other
cos. includes holdings in Queensland
Insurance, Ltd., and Bankers and Traders
Insurance Co., Ltd.
With the national income still buoyant
and costs steadier than at any time dur-
ing the last decade, the immediate out-
look favors continued improvement in
earnings, and there are prospects of a
little relief in taxation.
Prepared to wait for its benefits, the
market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
545. 9d. (555. 6d. a year ago) to return
only 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or
4.5 p.c, on a 12i p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 565. 3d. ’
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
'TRADING mainly with primary pro-
A ducers in the backcountry of Victoria
and N. S. Wales, where it has 26 and 16
branches respectively, with another at
Mt. Gambier, South Australia, the earn-
ings of this 70-year-old station-supply,
produce, carrying, agency and general
merchandising co. depend largely upon
the prosperity of graziers, wheatgrowers,
etc. And never have all enjoyed a greater
period of prosperity than during the last
decade.
Since 1944 shareholders have had divs.
averaging 10.7 p.c., with wide margins,
they have put up £300,000 of fresh capi-
tal, which brought with it £130,499 of
sflar e-premiums, and reserves have
climbed from £125,783 to £539,382,
which is £39,382 in excess of the £500,000
of paid capital. Combined trading
results of the parent and subsidiary—
P.W. Pty. (paid capital £20,000) formed
in 1935 to handle the wholesale side of
some of the parent’s business—compare
as follows over the last half-dozen
years;
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949 .. 60,700 10 p.c. = 29,388 7 9 . , fi7 0 80 631
To doubtful debts, £7OOO ..J 24,367 250,631
Share premiums, £27,600 .. •• 278,131
1950 . . 74,706 10 p.C. = 33,888 7 9 . q*rq QOA KO4
To doubtful debts, £15,000 .. } 26,373 304,604
1951 ~ 118,718 12 p.c. = 51,000 7 in »»io 047 222
To doubtful debt., £20,000.. j 42,718 347,222
Share premiums, etc., £36,874 net .. 384,096
1952 .. 147,848 12 p.c. = 55,500 7 fi7 0 48 461 444
To doubtftd debts, £25,000.. j 67,348 451,444
1953 .. 90,992 11 p.c. = 55,000 35,992 487,486
Capital loss, £lB5O 486.086
1954 ~ 118.296 12 p.c. = 60,000 53,296 539,382
The fatness of the 1952 profit was largely
the result of sales (£l£ million) of im-
ported heavy-hardware. Collapse of this
trade was mainly responsible for the
shrinkage in the 1953 profit, which, how-
ever, still showed a very satisfactory
return on capital.
Last term a contraction of £209,000 in
sales of produce was more than offset
by an expansion of £280,000 in sales of
merchandise, and costs were steadier and
margins a shade stronger. So, after
allowing something for bad and doubtful
debts, there was a spring of £69,173 in
gross profits (£969,813). Exes. (£760,550)
made off with £42,346 of the gain. The
allowance for depreciation was £23,467
(up £1523) and for taxation £72,500 (up
£3000), leaving the net result £22,304
stronger at £113,296, or 22.6 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 18.2, 3i.9, 26.7, 22.4 and
20.7 p.c. back to 1949. That leaves out
of the reckoning a net capital loss of
£1350 on shares held (£4800) in Murray
Shipping, Ltd., which has gone into
voluntary liquidation. The distribution,
lowered from 12 p.c. in 1952 to 11 p.c.
in 1953, was lifted to 12 p.c. again, of
which 2 p.c. is called bonus.
Revival of trade activity and continued
growth of the undertaking are the fea-
tures of balance-sheet figures;
r~ P.W. and Subsidiary. —^
1952. 1953. 1954.
£, £, £
Paid capital '.. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves ~ ~ 451.444 487,434 539,380
Outsiders .... 5 5 5
Notes .. ~ 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors* .. 1,106,259 577,283 812,833
Taxation provision 282,014 232,596 161,813
Final dividends .. 30,000 30,000 85,000
£2,469,722 £1,927,318 £2,148,531
Property and plant 335,883 395,104 461,727
Stocks .. ~ 1,880,898 866,270 883,838
Book debts .. 679,277 589,039 721,211
Shares other cos. 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 68,864 72,105 81,760
£2,469,722 £1,927,318 £2,148,531
* Includes unspecified “provisions.”
Purchase of additional premises and
extension of others added £66,623 net to
the book-value of fixed assets. The
growth in book-debts was £132,172 and
in stocks (in at cost or under) £17,563.
The contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£577,658) was only £14,677,
despite the addition to fixed assets.
The current term has opened well so
far as turnover is concerned, and no
steep fall in the price of wool or sharp
rise in costs is anticipated. There are
prospects of a little further relief in co.
taxation, and the effect of dry conditions
in country areas upon merchandise sales
might be offset, or partly offset, by an
increased demand for produce.
At 38s. (365. 7d. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 shares return 6.3 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover is visibly
41s. 7d., and there are inner reserves in
the stocks and book-debts items.
Hopkins Odium Holdings, Ltd.
A/TAINLY because of raw-material
shortages and price advantages the
post-war boom, besides inducing a big
rise in demand, caused a trend in
machine-belting manufacture away from
leather to rubber-canvas materials. Mel-
bourne-based Hopkins Odium, the only
Australian belting-producer with a foot
in either camp, did well out of this
development, and until 1951 won rapidly
expanding profits:
Hopkins Odlum Pty., Ltd,
Dec., Net Profit.* Dec., Net Profit.*
1947 ~ .. £11,930 1950 .. .. £38,680
1948 .. .. 15,870 1951 .. 60,390
1949 ... .. 27,010
* Prospectus figures, after tax at 7s. in the £.
Like all capital equipment, however, the
co.’s products are subject to sharp fluc-
tuations in demand, and the general
downturn in industry in 1952 meant an
abrupt contraction in sales, the effects of
which were aggravated by buoyant
costs:
Hopkins Odium and Subsidiary.
r~ —rDividends. ~ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
5 p.c.
& £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £8536 .. .. 719
1952 ~ 18,311 171 8 p.c.* = 6,000 12,140 12,859
Tax overprovided, £10,000.. .. 22,859
1953 .. 31,958 1,250 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,703 37,562
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52.
The board is close-mouthed about turn-
over, but it appears that demand, after
remaining slack in the first half of the
1953 term, picked up again in the last
six months. The outcome was a healthy
improvement of £13,642 in net profit
(£31,953), which was struck after writing-
down stocks by £2OOO (down £1000), and
setting aside £6124 (down £1626) for
depreciation and £16,800 (up £2700) for
tax. The £31,953 was enough to pay the
pref. charge (£1250) and cover 15.4 p.c.
on the £200,000 of ord. capital as against
9.1 p.c. in 1952, so the 8 p.c. div. pre-
sented no difficulties.
Formed in August, 1952, Hopkins
Odium Holdings bought all the capital
in Hopkins Odium Pty. for £200,000 of its
own ord. scrip. Freeholds were written-up
by £49,520 to £99,862 for the, purposes of
the conversion. Shareholders later sold
100,000 10s. ords. at par to give the co.
public status for taxation and Stock
Exchange listing. Of the proceeds the
vendors reinvested £25,000 in 5 p.c.
redeemable pref. shares, repayable before
1973.
The business was started by the Hop-
kins brothers in 1890, and became a pro-
prietary co. in 1910. Its main lines are
rubber-canvas flat transmission belting,
conveyor and elevator belting and adjust-
able vee-link belting, leather belting,
mechanical leathers and textile leathers ;
rubber-canvas products predominate.
Last term the co, worked down stocks
by £56,435 and tightened-up the financial
structure all round:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953.
£ £
Paid capital—
Pref 25,000 25,000
Ord .. .. 200,000 , 200,000
Reserves .. .. 12,859 37,562
Mortgage ~ 40,000 36,500
Shareholders’
deposits .. 11,000
Tax provision .. 50,912 17,519
Creditors .. 15,374 18,532
Final div. .. 6,171 9,625
£361,316 £344,738
Freeholds ~ 109,002 109,333
Plant, etc. .. 57,766 58,381
Stock .. .. 157,906 101,471
Debtors .. .. 27,120 43,818
Cash, bonds, etc. 9,522 31,735
£361,316 £344,738
Proceeds of the stock-reduction, together
with surplus profits, were used mainly to
clip £3500 off the mortgage, repay £ll,OOO
of shareholders’ deposits, reduce the tax-
liability, carry £16,698 more book-debts
—a sign of brisker trading—and to add
£22,213 to the holding of cash and
Government bonds. The position is so
comfortable that the co. is redeeming half
of the preference capital (£12,500).
Industrial activity is holding up well,
and prospects for a better showing at
next balance are good. Because produc-
tion of belting is generally adequate to
meet demand, the co.’s future develop-
ment is tied up with the course of Aus-
tralia’s industrialisation and with the
growth of the economy as a whole. What-
ever happens, there are likely to be sharp
variations in profits, which are inherent
in the nature of the business. At 1 Is. 3d.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ncys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
WANTED PARTNER
for Goldmine ready for production, fully
equipped, battery, concentration-table,
jackhammer, stopers, 2 winding engines,
compressor, pumps, cyanidation plant,
etc. Yield up to date WOO tons for an
average of Soz. (three ounces) of fine
gold per ton. For further information
and particulars apply
P.O. Box 1, Georgetown,
North Queensland
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
JFACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6S x 3| and 9 Ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed. *
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ƒ
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304.306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
the 10s. ords. yield a satisfactory
7.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div: basis.
Net tangible cover is 1 Is. lOd.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
ONE of the Howard Smith
group, Caledonian has
£1,487,894 of capital to feed in
464,295 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
(subject to the outmoded N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act)
and 1,023,599 ords. H.S. owns
69 p.c, of the prefs. and 85 p.c.
of the ords., an association which
means much so far as marketing
is concerned. But the plight of
the industry has been such that
the ords. haven’t had a div. for
the last quarter of a century, and
payments to the prefs. were
£162,503 (7s, per share) in arrears
at Dec. 31, 1953.
Still, the whole of the capital,
and more besides, is intact, and
the picture has brightened over
the last few years, as the follow-
ing table shows:
r Dividends ■, Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948.. 36,549 74 Nil 34,822 182,523
From insurance provision,
£14,948 .. .. 197,471
Loss,
1949.. 23,006 Nil Nil Nil 174,465
Prom contingencies,
£41,292 .. .. 215,757
Further rec onditioning,
£46,092 .. .. 169,665
Profit.
1950.. 28,108 5 Nil 23,215 174,558
Further conditioning,
£40,843 .. .. 133,715
1951.. 94,06 8 1 0 Nil 46,429 181,354
1952. .248,129 20 Nil 92,858 336,625
Deferred tax in respect of
previous years, £95,000 241,625
1953. .262,309 20 Nil 92,859 411,075
The prefs. received 20 p.c. again
last term, at which Tate their
slate should be cleaned within
the next two and a half years.
Beyond that the ords. can see a
promised land of moderate divs,
subject to such imponderables as
output, sales and profit-margins.
The Coal Board exercises general
control over the volume of pro-
duction and distribution, as well
as over prices. And there are the
coalminers, whose behavior is an
unpredictable element.
Last term’s £263,309 (up
£14,180) of profit was won from
a slightly lower output of coal.
which exceeded 1,000,000 tons.
The £262,309 was written after
allowing £188,561 (up £45,207)
for depreciation and £ls».uuu
(down £27,000) for taxation, of
which £60,000 was in respect of
deferred future tax. ' And a
further £95,000 of the £169,450
that remained after handing the
prefs. 20 p.c. was earmarked for
future tax in respect of the years
prior to 1953. Another factor
which stands in the way of pref.
div. arrears being wiped out more
rapidly is the still-heavy capital
outlay in connection with
mechanisation and modernisa-
tion, Only two of the co.’s seven
pits, all of which are on the
northern N. S. Wales field, are
fully mechanised. No harm
would be done if the board stated
approximately how much has yet
to be spent to complete the co.’s
current programme in this
respect.
When the books last closed the
co. was holding £275,829 (up
£11,294) in cash, etc. The year’s
net addition to fixed assets was
£32,302:
Paid capital— 1952. 1958.
p re f £464.295 £464,295
Ord. .. .. 1.023,599 1,023,599
Reserves . . ~ 336,625 411,075
Creditors .. .. 623,108 597,105
Tax provision, etc. 834,311 373,069
Final div. .. 46,429 46,429
£2,828,367 £2,915,572
Fixed assets .. 1,517,958 1,550,260
Stocks and stores 378,626 395,609
Debtors .. .. 667,248
Cash, bonds, etc. 264,535 275,829
£2,828,367 £2,915,572
The amount coming to sundry
creditors was reduced by £26,003,
stocks increased by £16,983 'and
book-debts by £26,626. The
year’s net growth in working
capital, or more-or-less liquid
surplus (£348,709), was £42,148.
Including tax-provision and the
final div,, there was 14s. 4d. of
outside money in the business
for every £ belonging to share-
holders when the books were
ruled off.
Underground production of
coal in N. S. Wales for the four
and a half months to May 15,
1954, was about 7 p.c. better
than for the corresponding
period of 1953. This and the
comparative steadiness of costs
augur well for the current year’s
net result. Conditions in the
trade, however, are passing fiom
a seller’s to a buyer’s market,
and competition from diesel and
residual oils is growing.
The sharemarket prices the
ords. af 9s. 6d. and the prefs. at
245., as against 11s. 2d. and
255. 9d. a year ago.
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Left with 292 acres of pay-
dirt at Kundang (Malaya) but no
dredge—it had been dismantled
and removed during the Jap.
occupation —this co. (paid capital
£ 125,000) recently induced Lon-
don-controlled Taiping Consoli-
dated to work the area with one
of its spare machines. The
agreement provides for payment
to Kundang of £66,500 for
dredging rights, and for the shar-
ing of annual profits on a 50-50
basis.
The reassembled dredge com-
menced digging on a commercial
basis on Sept. 15, 1953, well
ahead of schedule, and has
worked smoothly since. For the
months to Dec. 31 last it
handled 938,000 c.y. (14.38 acres)
for 176.73 tons of 75.9 p.c. tin
ore, an average of .421 b. per
yard. Treatment costs were
9.93 d. per yard. Production was
equal to 134.1 tons metallic tin,
which realised an average of
approximately £614 per ton.
Kundang’s share of the dredg-
ing profit was £13,355, equal to
£45,788 on an annual basis. After
paying office exes and writing off
£7OOO for depletion, etc., net
profit was £6116, equal to
£20,968 p.a., or 16.7 p.c. on
The first instalment (£16,635)
from Taiping for dredging
rights was received and placed to
reserves. Also a final £23,514
was received in settlement of the
co.’s war-damage claims, and,
together with £2514 of the profit,
was used to write the old dredge,
etc. (original cost £105,654) com-
pletely out of the books.
Kundang’s share of the cost of
dredge removal was £77,924, of
which £5OOO has been written off,
leaving net figure at £72,924.
The property figures at £24,000,
and there was £67,424 in cash,
bonds, etc., to meet £16,108
coming to creditors, etc.
The London spot price of tin,
which averaged £5645 15s. for
January, 1954, stood at
£S72B 10s. on June 2. The co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares, which dropped to
275. 6d. in the market during
1953, fetched 395. last week.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
THIS is a Melbourne float,
registered May 6, 1954, with
a nominal capital of £1,000,000
in 10s. shares. The vendor,'
Northern Mines Development,
N.L., takes 300,000 f.-p.’s for
transfer of rights, plus £20,000
cash for a small plant and out-
of-pocket exes., etc. Those on
the vendor’s register are offered
1,000,000 contribs., payable Is.
each on application and the
balance as required. A further
200,000 contribs. are offered on
similar terms to Mines Invest-
ment Syndicate. The remaining
500,000 shares are in pickle.
The co. will thus kick off with
an issued capital of £750,000,
paid to £60,000, of which £30,000
will remain as working capital
after payments to the vendors
and allowing £lO,OOO for pre-
liminary exes., including broker-
age (£5000). The issue has been
underwritten by L. G. May (Mel-
bourne) and Marriott and
Treloar (Adelaide).
Estimated cost of equipping
the mine for a throughput of
100 tons ore per day is £537,400.
The co. is to take over and
develop the old Hercules gold-
mine, about 34 miles n.-e. of
Pine Creek (N.T.), which was
worked at the end of last century
by Chinese and others for good
returns at shallow depth. There
are four known ore-shoots, and,
on the basis of exploratory drill-
ing by Hercules Gold in 1936
and more recently by Northern
Mines Development, consulting
engineer W. J. Cadwallader
estimates that there is 62,300 tons
of probable ore —no ore has yet
been blocked averaging
37.2dwt. to an average depth of
about 225 ft.
Recoverable grade is put at
30.8dwt., worth 481 s. 3d. per ton
with gold at £l5 12s. 6d. per fine
ounce. Total costs are estimated
at 1605., thus leaving a profit of
3215. 3d. per ton, or £1,000,700
on 62,300 tons. Dr. M. D.
Garretty endorses Mr. Cad-
wallader’s assessment of the ore
position, and says accretions to
known ore may be expected to
follow adequate drilling and
development. Adequate water is
said to be available in the district,
and no treatment difficulties are
anticipated.
However, until a lot of
development work has been
done, ore proved by blocking,
and values and recoveries estab-
lished by pilot-plant treatment,
the venture is a speculation with
possibilities.
On the board are Dr. M, D.
Garretty, C. E. Blackett, F. G.
Burns and K. W. Craig. General-
manager is J. E. Klug.
Rio Tinto has decided not to
proceed with its sampling option
over the Brocks Creek co.’s
outside uranium leases in the
Northern Territory because of
the absence of any indication of
surface mineralisation. Two
other cos. are now nibbling at
options over portion of the leases
in question. Meanwhile, the
Brocks co. has received a reward
payment of £5OO from the
Atomic Energy Commission for
discovery of uranium at Brocks
Creek, and there might be more
to come if developments—held
up by shortage of labor at the
moment —are good enough.
He * * *
If geiger indications amount
to anything worth while, the
Mt. Isa field (N.Q.) will pre-
sently be added to the list of
Australia’s uranium - bearing
areas. Northern Uranium De-
velopment, N.L., and Uranium
Mines, N.L., have jointly taken
options over a number of leases
near Isa where geiger reactions
have indicated the existence of
strongly radioactive material.
An aerial scintillometer survey
of the area is to be undertaken
immediately, and ground parties
are on their way from the .cos.’
Rum Jungle leases to carry out
preliminary prospecting work.
Last week Uranium Mines’ ss.
shares paid to 2s. fetched Bs,,
and Northern Uranium’s ss.
shares paid to 2s, sold around
4s. 6d.
♦ ♦
“Nimrod” : Many odd
characters are on the road in
the Pilbara (W.A.) district these
days. With half an eye for oil
and uranium, their chief objec-
tives are tantalite, columbite,
titanium, monazite, beryl and
corundum. As well might be,
with tantalite at £6OOO a ton,
columbite at £3OOO and even
beryl at £5OO or £6OO, Some of
the original Aussies are staking-
out claims, as witness signatures
on recent applications for min-
ing tenements in the “Northern
Times.” There were Charlie
Woroonunnuna, two Paddys,
two Tobys and two Jackies. To
distinguish them these appeared
as Corunna Paddy Tonti and
Bonney Paddy Wongidura;
Long Toby Gillareena and. Short
Toby; Jackie Bindarra and
Eileen’s Jackie Kudjumudda.
COMPANY REPORT
THE CONSOLIDATED
ZINC CORPORATION
Satisfactory Financial Result Having Regard
to Lower Prices for Lead and Zinc
The fifth annual general meeting of The Consolidated Zinc
Corporation Limited will be held on June 23rd at 37 Dover Street,
London, W.l.
The following is the statement by the Chairman, Mr. John R.
Covett, which has been circulated with the report and accounts for the
year ended December 31st, 1953: —
Having regard to the further fall
in the prices of lead and zinc, the
results for 1953 may be considered
satisfactory, the profit before taxa-
tion amounting to £2,516,562 com-
pared with £2,958,759 for 1952, a
decrease of £442,197. This result
is arrived at after charging deprecia-
tion of £837,471 compared with
£769,533 for 1952.
Taxation absorbs £1,043,799 com-
pared with £1,215,734 for 1952 and
the net profit for 1953 amounts -to
£1,393,022 compared with £1,671,150
for 1952. We are recommending a
final dividend of 2s. per share
which, with the interim dividend of
Is. per share, will give a total dis-
tribution of 3s. per share, which
is the same as for 1952. The Appro-
priation Account has been credited
with provisions, amounting to
£440,977, no longer required in re-
spect of taxation on previous years’
profits, of which £380,000 relates to
profits of a subsidiary earned before
the date of incorporation of this
Company and has necessarily been
transferred to capital reserve. A
further £750,000 has been trans-
ferred to general reserves out ot
profits, thus increasing the reserves
by a total of £1,130,000. The bal-
ance on Appropriation Account
carried forward at 31st December,
1953 amounts to £843,970, an in-
crease of £52,997 over the balance
at 31st December, 1952.
Capital expenditure during the
year on buildings, plant, machinery
and equipment amounted to
£1,470,053 (compared with
£1,773,550 for 1952), of which
£883,295 related to the smelting and
other plant of Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited in the United
Kingdom. Capital commitments out-
standing at 31st December, 1953,
amount to £1,192,000 compared with
£2,305,000 at 31st December, 1952.
The outstanding projects include
£859,000 for the new acid and
superphosphate plant under erection
by Sulphide Corporation Pty.
Limited at Cockle Creek, New South
Wales. This plant is being largely
financed by a mortgage loan of
£1,000,000, the first instalment of
which, amounting to £200,000, was
received during 1953.
MARKETS AND PRICES
With regard to markets and
prices for our products, I referred
in my statement las|; year to the
year 1952 as being one of disillusion-
ment and disappointment to lead
and zinc producers. By contrast the
year under review has been largely
one of, readjustment.
The price of lead on the London
Metal Exchange at the beginning
of the year stood at £lO5 per ton,
hut then rapidly fell away until
on the 23rd April it reached its
lowest level during the year of
£73 ss. The price soon began to
rise again, reaching £93 in July and
in the closing stages of the year
prices moved within the narrow
range of £BB to £92 a ton. The
average settlement price on the
London Metal Exchange for the
whole year was £9l 9s. lid. The
pattern for zinc was much the same,
the price standing at £94 15s. at
the start of the year when free
trading was resumed; it fell to
£63 15s. on the 23rd April, but re-,
covered somewhat, reaching £76 in
November. The average settlement
price on the London Metal Exchange
for the year was £74 14s. One
very important factor affecting the
market for these two metals in 1953
has been the rate of imports into
the United States, which stood at a
very high level throughout .the first
eight months of the year; since
August the import rate declined,
substantially in the case of lead
(both in metal and concentrate
form) where imports averaged
26,000 tons a month in the last
four months of 1953 as compared
with an average of 48,000 tons a
month in the earlier months of that
year, but not quite so markedly in
the case of zinc. These imports
have had great political significance
and strong pressure has been put
upon the U.S. Administration to
take some action to safeguard the
U.S. mining industry.
In view, however, of the interest
that has been aroused in the U.S.
stock position I wquld like to ex-
press my views on a number 9f
reasons which caused these stocks
greater part of the year the higher
prices quoted by American producers
both for lead and zinc over the com-
parable quotations of the London
Metal Exchange undoubtedly helped
to influence the world’s surplus to-
wards U.S.A.; secondly the attrac-
tion to overseas countries of dollar
sales in an expanding Import market
was fully appreciated; thirdly a
lack of confidence was apparent in
the minds of overseas producers in
the ability of the London Metal
Exchange to find the means to buy
and finance these heavy tonnages
without subjecting the market to a
drastic fall in prices. The position
in the United Kingdom was particul-
arly aggravated by the fact that
the sale of newly mined lead and
zinc from current production was
severely handicapped by the disposal
of Ministry stocks during the first
year of free markets. Hence only
a limited market was offered by
the United Kingdom to overseas
producers and it is not surprising
that they should have given the
United States market their very
closest attention. I am glad to
say that the Ministry’s realisations
of lead were completed at the end
of last year, but so far there is no
certainty how soon the selling of
the Ministry’s zinc stocks will be
completed.
THE FUTURE
With regard to the future you will
understand how difficult it would
be to make any prophecy, particularly
as Government action can so often
nullify economic laws. I would,
however, like to state that if our
costs remain reasonably stable and
our efficiencies continue to improve,
a combined lead-zinc price in the
U.K. of approximately £175 should
prove satisfactory both to our mines
and smelters and at the same time
encourage increased usage of our
metals, thereby establishing our
industry on a yet sounder basis.
Our subsidiary company, The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation of
Canada Limited, formed in 1952 to
maintain contact with mineral
developments in Canada of likely
interest to our business, has pro-
gressed satisfactorily. The founda-
tions of a small organisation capable
of carrying out any required explora-
tion work have been made, and
geological reconnaissance of one
prospect is now being carried out.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
and His Royal Highness the Duke of
Edinburgh in the course of the
Royal Tour, honoured Broken Hill
with a visit on 18th March. Her
Majesty and His Royal Highness
arrived by air, and were welcomed
at a Civic Reception at the North
Park after driving through some of
the main streets in the City. Fol-
lowing a visit to the Flying Doctor
base, Her Majesty and His Royal
Highness inspected the surface
installation of the Zinc Corporation
and of New Broken Hill Consolid-
ated, before continuing by air to
Adelaide. This day will be long
remembered by all who were
privileged to be present on this
historic occasion.
In recent months the three Vice-
Chairmen —Mr. Baer, Mr. Neave, and
Mr. Robinson —have visited Aus-
tralia and have maintained close
contact with the development of all
our undertakings there with first-
hand knowledge of the local con-
ditions under which our business
has to operate. I would like to
add a special word of thanks for
the energetic and capable leader-
ship shown by Sir Norman Mighell,
who as Chairman of our Australian
subsidiary, Consolidated Zinc
Proprietary Limited, guides all
phases of our activities on that
continent. This Company also acts
as Managers for Zinc Corporation
and New Broken Hill Consolidated
in Australia.
The troubled conditions of the
world in general do not encourage
us to take a complacent outlook for
the future. However, our mines and
plants are in excellent shape and
we are making steady progress to-
wards our various objectives. I
have great confidence in our
organisation - at all levels —men,
foremen, staff and management, and
I know it would be your wish that
I should congratulate them on the
results achieved to date and assure
them of our wholehearted support
to accumulate. First, during the of their efforts in the future.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The “Treasures of the Home” Exhibi-
tion in the Lower Town Hall has struck
a very welcome note in this city, not
only because of the beauty of the exhibits
but because it is the first time a Christian
and a Jewish group of people have com-
bined to jointly benefit, in equal propor-
tions, both the Y.W.C.A. and the Vic-
torian Jewish Board of Deputies. The
Governor opened the exhibition, accom-
panied by Lady Brooks, whose gown of
gold-and-silver brocade had a very full
skirt and a swathed bodice. Mrs. Essing-
ton Lewis, president of the organising
committee, wearing a gown of ice-blue
chiffon, introduced the Governor in a
sparkling speech, whilst Mr. Maurice
Ashkanasy, Q.C., president of the Jewish
Board of Deputies, added some witty
remarks in welcome.
Two picturesque figures at the opening
were Madame Nishi, wife of the Japanese
Ambassador, and her daughter, Miyoko
Nishi, who with the Ambassador flew
from Canberra for the function. Madame
Nishi, who had arranged the flowers in
the Orinetal-art section, wore a kimino of
pale-grey brocade with the wide sleeves
lined with yellow. Her daughter’s
kimino of gold satin was embroidered
in brilliant peacock-tonings.
* ☆ ☆
Wesley Church was the setting for the
marriage of Nancy Jeane, only daughter
of Mrs. J. Woodrow, of South Yarra,
and the late Mr. John Woodrow, and
Peter, only son of Mrs. G. M. A. Cox, of
Toorak, and the late Mr. W. Cox. The
bride’s lovely gown of camellia duchesse
satin had a very full skirt and a long-
sleeved bodice which had a rounded
neckline embroidered with pearl-sequins
and drop-pearls. A diamond coronet
held in place the long tulle veil and she
carried a bouquet of pale-mauve cattelya
orchids. Her sister, Mrs. Edward Camp-
bell, was matron-of-honor, and wore
an ankle-length frock of sugar-pink
velveteen with a large pocket on one side
of the skirt and with the fitted bodice
featuring a heart-shaped neckline. Her
tiny cloche was of sugar-pink velveteen
and she carried a bouquet of red and pink
j"oses.
The reception was at Giro’s, where
Mrs. Woodrow received the guests in an
ensemble of black faille and a small black
velvet cloche. Mrs. Cox chose a frock
of black lace over brown and a black
.velvet cloche finished with a black ostrich-
feather mount.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Cox, she wearing a grey-and-
white Swiss-embroidered nylon frock
and matching cap; Dr. and Mrs. Ray-
mond Pearce (Sydney); Mr. and Mrs.
Geoffrey Griffiths (her choice a suit of
black-and-brown-striped worsted and
tiny beige-and-brown beret); Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, in navy faille with a
rose-pink velvet cap sewn with tiny
pearls; her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Robert
Wallace Mitchell, whose navy ottoman-
silk princess coat contrasted with a navy-
and-white-striped satin scarf; and Mrs.
Douglas Donald, whose black silver-pat-
terned taffeta frock was worn with a tiny
black-velvet pillbox-hat.
* * *
Henrietta Paul, who recently returned
from Paris where she studied dressmak-
ing, showed her first collection m her
own Toorak home. The garments were
notable for their elegance, simple basic
lines and hand-finish, to demonstrate
which quality the mannequin showed a
broadcloth frock and then appeared wear-
ing it inside-out. Outstanding was a
coat of off-white duvetyn. The loose back
was emphasised by a wide panel, and for
contrast the shawl-collar was of black
Persian lamb, the large buttons of black
velvet. A superbly-cut suit was of dark
grey-green wool-jersey. The skirt,
mounted on bronze taffeta with a deep-
pleated hemline, was teamed with a
sleeveless-bodice of bronze taffeta; the
threequarter-sleeved jersey jacket was
finished with a waistband which buckled.
For cocktails there was an orchid-pink
satin frock which had a scooped-out
neckline bound with ranch mink. It was
worn over brown nylon tulle; with it the
mannequin wore mink earrings. What
the designer called three-dimensional
beading was seen on a party-frock of
midnight-blue Chantilly lace made over
layers of midnight-blue nylon tulle and
peacock-blue satin. The short-sleeved
bodice had a scooped-neckline embroid-
ered with kingfisher-blue and royal-blue
sequins over pink sequins to give the
three-dimensional look.
White porcelain grapes set in black-
velvet leaves edged the rounded neckline
of a slim gold-brocade frock. Over a
multitude of black nylon-tulle petticoats
was worn a full-skirt of French raw-silk
" striped in green, black and brown. The
skirt was cut so that the stripes radiated
diagonally from the waist. The simple
blouse was of black jersey. Another out-
standing frock was of flame silk-organza
over royal-purple. It was strapless, and
matching roses were set in front of the
waist, while the long green stems formed
a narrow belt, A lovely frock of striped
sajin had the stripes so cut and matched
as to look like ribbon.
During the war Joy Bartholomew was
a member of the W.A.A.F.S.; at its con-
clusion she attended Melbourne Uni-
versity from which she graduated Bache-
lor of Commerce. Then she married
James Alston, who was for three years
Australian skating champion. Mrs.
Alston, a fine tennis-player, belongs to the
Royal South Yarra Club. She is a mem-
ber of the Council of the English-Speak-
ing Union, and is on the committee of the
Raveloe Auxiliary which works for the
Animal Welfare League.
Marguerite Weir, who will marry Wil-
liam Banks next Tuesday, June 15, at the
Toorak Presbyterian Church, was given
a kitchen-ted by Mrs. Alston in her
South home. The hostess wore
a smart wool-angora afternoon-frock in
ice-blue tonings. Among the guests were
Mrs. C. S. Weir, mother of the guest-of-
honor, Mrs. Norman Baker (Margurite’s
sister, who will be matron-of-honor) and
bridesmaid Pam Middleton.
* <r ft
The scarlet-uniformed band of South-
ern Command played outside the Royale
Ballroom for the Southern Command
Officers’ Mess Ball. In the foyer a
silken Southern Command flag flew from
a flagpole, with flowers massed at the
base. Shields bearing corps and regi-
mental crests, and flowers and autumn-
leaves, decorated the ballroom, while on
each table were cardboard figures showing
officers’ uniforms from 1660 to the pre-
sent. On the official table, the Southern
Command Badge, worked in flowers, was
greatly admired, while at the back of the
official enclosure was a larger-than-life
portrait of Queen Elizabeth. As the loyal
toast was proposed by the G.O.C. South-
ern Command, Lieut.-Gen. Sir Horace
Robertson, the lights were dimmed and
the Queen’s portrait illuminated.
Official guests were received by Sir
Horace Robertson, assisted in the absence
of Lady Robertson by Mrs. R. J. Barnam,
wife of Brigadier R. J. Barnam. To
a roll of drums the Governor and Lady
Brooks entered, the latter wearing a full-
skirted gown of palest-pink lace with the
fitted bodice finished with scalloped lace
shoulder-straps. She added a white Arctic-
fox cape-stole. The Adjutant-General,
A.M.F., Major-Gen. A. R. Garrett, was
with Mrs. Garrett, whose bouffant gown
was of American-beauty chiffon. Mrs.
Murdoch, wife of Air Vice-Marshal A.
M, Murdoch, chose a grey-and-black-
striped organza gown. Major-Gen. A. C.
Shortt, of the U.K. liaison staff, attended
with Mrs. Shortt, who covered her mid-
night-blue satin gown with a scarlet chif-
fon stole.
The wife of the U.S. Army Attache,
Mrs. J. W. Middleton, wore a spectacular
gown of lime-green organza latticed on
the bodice, skirt being splashed with gold
sequins. Lieut.-Col. G. N M. Brindley,
deputy Principal Matron of the
R. wore a gown of magnolia
satin. Col. lan Hutchinson, president of
the ball-committee, and Mrs. Hutchinson
brought a large party; Mrs. Hutchison’s
wide-skirted gown was of ice-blue satin.
With Major Quentin Tilley was his wife,
whose choice was turquoise-blue tulle
over pink moire-taffeta.
Sydney
. Uniformed V.A.’s formed a guard-of-
honor at the gala preview of “The Queen
in Australia,” held at the State Theatre
in the presence of his Excellency the
Governor-General, Sir William Slim, and
Lady Slim. Daughter of the Governor
of N.S.W., Miss Elizabeth Northcott,
was also present with her fiance, Squad-
ron-Leader Russell Nash. The frocking
was rich and elegant, and women as well
as men wore their decorations.
Those who were presented to the
Governor-General were the Premier and
Mrs. Cahill; the Minister in charge of the
Royal tour. Sir Eric Harrison, and Lady
Harrison; Minister of the Interior W.
S. Kent Hughes and Mrs. Hughes;
Leader of the State Opposition Vernon
Treatt and Mrs. Treatt; the director of
the Royal tour, Lieut.-General Sir Frank
Berryman, and Lady Berryman ; Dr. C.
M. Guiney and Mrs. Guihey ; Mr. and
' Mrs. A. B. Challice, Mr. George Patter-
son, Mr. John Goulston and Miss Goul-
ston, Mr, and Mrs. D. Casey and Mr.
and, Mrs. J. Evans.
The film itself is the loveliest of all
the records that have been made of the
Queen’s tour, one of its most attractive
features is that it treats Australia as a
whole, a Commonwealth with no petty
emphasis on the comparative merits of
the welcomes given in the various cities
and States. Four Australians who have
been doing theatrical and radio work in
England—Peter Finch, Wilfred Thomas,
Wendy Gibb and Thelma Scott —are the
commentators, and among them manage
f o produce nearly every type of Austra-
lian accent, which lends to the picture an
added air of authority.
This bright-faced 17-year-old girl is
Carmel Kaine, who is showing great pro-
mise as a violinist. At a recent promenade-
concert at Sydney’s Art Galilery, she
gave a highly meritorious performance
of the Cesar Franck Sonata. Now study-
ing at the Con. for her performer’s dip-
loma, Carmel pursues in her spare-time
the unusual hobby of printing. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
H.M.A.S. Australia’s quarter-deck was
a. striking sight, with red and white
lights outlining the ceremonial awning
for the “paying-off” cocktail-party given
by Captain A. D. McNicoll and his
officers—the last function but one before
the old ship goes to the ship-breakers.
Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowling (who flew
his flag in the Australia when she escorted
her Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh
to Barrier Reef waters) and Mrs. Dowling
were special guests. So were three Service
chiefs: Rear-Admiral H. A. Showers,
Lieut-General E. W. Woodward, and Air
Vice-Marshal A. L. Waters.
Two other guests who have a special
interest in the ship were Mrs. F. Fogarty,
of Leura, whose husband, Commander
Fogarty, a seaplane observer, was the
ship’s first casualty in the second work
war, and Mrs. G. Oldham, wife of
former Commanding Officer of Australia
who is now C.O. of H.M.A.S. Sydney, ai
present on its way home after eigh
months’ service in Korean waters.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gum-tree-girt St. James’s Church
Turramurra, was the setting for th
wedding of Elizabeth Latham, onl
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lamber
Latham, of Ellerston* Scone, and Joh
Scott Waine, only son of the Cecil Scot
Waines of Warrawee. The bride’s gown
of white satin, cut on classical lines and
with a train of white tulle, had a portrail
neckline and long sleeves. The full
length tulle veil fell from an orange
blossom wreath. The bouquet was o
white orchids, hyacinths and bouvardias
The three bridesmaids, Jacqueline
Baillieu, cousin of the bride, and Susan
Playfair and Sara Hordern, wore whit
organdie embroidered with white flowers
■ with swansdown edging the boat-shapec
neckline. Their narrow curvettes were o
pleated-organdie and they carried smal
white swansdown muffs.
Reception at the Elanora Country
Club was attended by 300 guests. Mrs
Latham wore a tiny pink hat with her
pale-grey and pink chiffon dress ; Mrs
Scott Waine wore a stole to match her
embroidered tobacco-toned silk-taffeta
frock ; her small hat was of cinnamon
ostrich-feathers. One of the guests, Judy
Killen, was bereft of her fiance for the
night—he is Major Swinton, who as
A.D.C. to the Governor-General was
attending his Excellencv at the gala pre-
view at the State Theatre.
”☆ ☆ ☆
A most pleasurable wine-tasting lun-
cheon was given in the Rhine Castle
cellars last week by National Opera to
spread the glad tidings that the company
had received great acclaim and good
houses during its recent New Zealand
tour, and to tell of repertoire and casts
for the Sydney season, which opened last
night. This was dealt with very authori-
tatively and thoroughly by Mr. Crookes,
the company’s manager, and leading
tenor Ronald Dowd testified to Maori-
land hospitality, to the happy-family
atmosphere which prevailed in the com-
pany, and to the kindliness of the
Dominion’s critics. A heavy cold having
laid low the hon. managing-director Mrs.
C. T. Lorenz, the guests were received
by president W. J. Bradley and public-
relations officer Nancy Salas.
Members of the National Opera tour-
ing company were guests at a welcome-
home party given by the Minister for the
Philippines, Dr. Roberto Regala, and
Mrs. Regala, at their home. Dr. and Mrs.
Regala are among the city’s most
enthusiastic opera-lovers and have given
strong support to National Opera since its
inception.
* * ☆
Five years ago two 11-year-old girls,
Pat Jar dine, of Nimmitabel, and Sally
Jones, of Binnaway, began to study wool-
classing when the Presbyteran Ladies’
College, Croydon, which they attend,
started this unusual course for girls. Last
week they were able to put to good use
the knowledge they had thus gleaned,
plus the experience they had gathered in
pre-school days and on vacations on the
family properties—they were two of the
junior judges in the Merino-class at the
Sheep Show.
* ☆ *
A visiting educationist, after a four-
months’ tour of country schools in five
States, has concluded that, except in the
matter of climate, the problems faced by
teachers in our small, remote schools,
are generally shared by those in
her own country. She is Dr. Dorothy
Novatney, Deputy - Commissioner of
Education in Alaska. Holder of a Phy.D.
degree in education from Columbia
University Teachers’ College, New York,
Dr. Novatney, who came here under a
United Nations Fellowship, would
scarcely have been overawed by our
huge distances, for as a territorial inspec-
tor for six years she had to cover the
length and breadth of her own vast land,
where some schools are 500 miles apart.
* ☆ ☆ ☆
The Surf Life Saving Association of
Australia, which does not make persist-
ent appeals for funds —claiming that its
members “aim to be lifesavers, not finan-
ciers” —would, however, like support for
its Art Union, which is being held to help
send a team of surf-lifesavers to South
Africa this month. Those who do
not like taking Art Union tickets could
send donations, which would be even
more welcome; it is pointed out that such
donations are allowable as tax-reductions.
The address is 16 Hunter-street, Sydney.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WADES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
Public Notice
I, JOHN MICHELLE COSTOULAS. of
Greek nationality, born Kantsikon,
Epyrus, Greece, resident 5 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing 164 Devonshire
Street, Surry Hills, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act 1948.
Have you tried
c ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
.smoke —and to offer
—these mild and
fiavourful
cigarettes.
: :
m
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
AS PULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
SUNDRY
SHOWS
A rtbursts
Kenneth Macqueen
Without having seen many of
Kenneth Macqueen’s water-
colors over the last few years,
one has come to think of him
as adhering pretty rigidly to a
technique that gives the effect of
a painting on glass, with a light
behind it—an impression, almost,
of silhouettes, clear and graceful
in their way, but rather too cold
and mathematical for any
genuine lyricism to survive.
It is pleasant, then, to have
those impressions corrected by a
current exhibition of Mac-
queen’s watercolors at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney
cool, clear paintings, but by no
means cold ; still with the style,
but much more relaxed and with
plenty of indications that the
subject hasn’t been moulded too
rigidly for the sake of the
pattern.
There are several quite lovely
paintings in the exhibition in
which the .lyrical notes have been
caught, as it were, without be-
ing caged: “Evening on the
Farm,” given weight and contrast
by its patch of rich ploughed
soil; “The Linseed Crop,” with
a slash of crisp green across it;
and, except for the intrusion of
a human figure, the warm tones
of “Burning Off.”
It is an interesting point that
the human figures do seem an
intrusion in any of the land-
scapes in which they have been
included. Possibly they are
touched-in too carelessly; pos-
sibly the paintings are still a
shade too cool, too still, too
remote, for such materialism.
More likely the clue lies in some-
thing else only hinted at in
several of the paintings —an in-
terest in the mythical and the
legendary which beguiles the eye
away from reality.
The great, bulking mass of
cloud in “The Storm Cloud,” for
instance, is not really a cloud,
but some mythical giant looming
over the land; the clouds in
“Grey Day on the Beach” are
like the trail of some aboriginal
spirit; the ghostly black sticks of
“In the Belar Scrub,” the tawny
stripes of “Evening by the Water-
hole” and the earthy colors of
“The Waterhole” seem to have
some vague, legendary signifi-
cance that overrides their first,
simple statement.
None of wjiich is to detract
from the positive qualities of the
paintings ; they are, if anything,
more interesting for it.
Melbourne, Old and New
At the Lower Town Hall,
Melbourne, an exhibition of
antique and contemporary home-
furnishings and oddments pro-
vides some remarkable contrasts.
One has only to come in out of
the tangle of trams, cars and
buses and look at an old view of
the same scene painted in 1860
to decide that Melbourne has
paid perhaps too high a price
for progress.
it might also be wondered if
the portraits of ancient worthies
—aldermen, captains-of-the-Fleet
and generals—painted by rela-
tively good academic painters.
aren,t better souvenirs of their
subject than the pictures of
dolicocephalic females and con-
sumptive-looking abos in the
contemporary section.
After basking in the glow and
the gracious lines of the chairs,
ca binets and tables that once
g raced a drawing-room of the
’fifties, you can look at the hard
fi nes> monotonous textures and
blatant colors of the furniture
j p a modern parlor and wonder
j£ rea j craftsmanship is now
ex tinct. And examining an old
oak c h e st with the date 1660
carved on it one can imagine the
l as t of the traditional carvers be-
jn g torn to pieces between an
electric-polisher and a sand-
papering-machine.
Our ancestors may not have
had any better taste than we
have. They may have taken very
much for granted their lovely
tapestries and hangings, their
elegant knives and forks, their
pots and pans and kettles, their
silverwork and vases and cups
a nd saucers. They may have
been merely following a fashion,
just as we are ; but the fashion
happened to be a good one, and
there is no comparison in terms
of beauty between a carpet
woven by an unlettered Persian
peasant and the self-conscious
patterns of kangaroos, koalas
a nd automobiles with which our
arty-crafty modern intellectuals
have decorated their textiles.
M. G. S.
* * *
v v
]\J a x Ragless
T<) his effec(s jn hjs show
a( Jye - S Gailery> Melbourne,
M ax Bag i esSj the South Aus-
traijan ar tist, uses brushes,
palette-kni£e and sometimes
JJ bservation when he uses all
three he is eminently successful,
j n h j s atmospheric view of
Hobart .. willochra C reek,” and
.. Brown . s Ki| .. a p ictures ,ue
affair of o|d stable> ydlow ka „
and red tree in which the colors
The co , ors dotft si in
o£ thc others possibly
beca i while there is plenty of
|ette^nife and pigment> there
F deal £ observation .
&
Stage and Music
Solomon-Heinz
The A.B.C.’s subscription-
concert at Sydney Town Hall
produced a first-half of superb
music-making.
The orchestra, under Bernard
Heinze’s baton, began with a
reading of Mozart’s Symphony
No. 35 (“The Haffner”) in which
the courtliest of graces rubbed
shoulders with bustling energy,
where perfect tranquillity of
spirit was captured in the lovely
andante. Even the octave-leap
in the opening subject of the first
movement was accomplished
without loss of dignity to pow-
dered peruke and laced wrist.
Solomon was the soloist in
Beethoven’s Fourth Piano Con-
certo in G major. In contradis-.
tinction to the more masculine
and heroic “Emperor,” this
work, in some respects better
than its more famous successor,
is cast in the mould of romance
and poetry. Throughout its
length there is not a bar of
extravagant statement.
Solomon treated it with that
perfection of taste one has come
to expect of him—that is, not as
a vehicle for the display of vir-
tuosity, but as a series of ques-
tions and answers conducted
between the keyboard and the
orchestra. This dialogue was
intimate, for the most part a
gentle jousting, and Heinz saw
that his forces never became too
querulous or too insistent.
Solomon pleaded his instru-
ment’s cause with the highest
skill and insight, and, having
made his point, launched into the
intoxicating rhythms of the final
movement in a spirit of joyous
ease.
After reaching these heights
the music crash-landed in Hinde-
mith’s “Nobilissima Visione”
ballet, in which the themes are
never a matc(r for the subject—
the ennoblement of St. Francis
of Assisi.
The other work was the
Enigma Variations of Elgar.
These variations are allegedly
portraits of Elgar himself,, his
wife and his friends, and there is
a hidden theme which accom-
panies each variation. Henry
Krehbiel saw in it the motto-
melody of Wagner’s “Parsifal,”
but it is anybody’s guess. To
this reviewer, the work as a
whole would have been better
for more clarity and less enigma.
The orchestra saw it through
with grim resolye and most
facile playing.
♦j* • ♦♦♦ ❖
“Uncle Vanya”
Chekhov’s play had a striking
and effective presentation at the
hands of Petra Productions in
Melbourne. A circular stage in
the middle of the hall accom-
modated the various members of
the Serebrakoff family, and the
only scenery to represent the
living-room of the professor’s
mansion was a few chairs and
tables and the inevitable
Russian samovar and sofa. A
few dead poplar-leaves scattered
on the floor expressed the garden
in the autumn. The characters
made their entrances and exits
through the audience, seated in
a wide circle contemplating the
proceedings. Yet the presen-
tation was all-sufficient, though
it mightn’t have been if anything
less living than this play by the
most living of Russian writers
had been under treatment.
Chekhov liked life, but he
didn’t like the theatre—he
called it “the scaffold on which
playwrights are executed.” He
would probably have liked
Norman Woollard’s production,
because there was less of the
scaffold in it than in most
theatre.
Norman Smith made the old
professor a pathetic figure, and
Cicely Chase, as his young wife
unable to reconcile her desires
with her duty to the old boy, was
credible. Margot Davey, as his
daughter by a former marriage,
was remarkably compelling
and the rest of the family
squabbled round his deathbed
as if they felt it. Alan Money,
as Uncle Vanya, wasn’t boring,
even though his role is a long
exposition of self-pity.
Talkies
Film Festival
First church-sponsored film to
be profitably shown in the com-
mercial theatre, “Martin Luther”
led off the fortnight’s programme
of the annual film festival at the
Union Theatre, University of
Melbourne.
By Louis de Rochemont, the
film was shot in the actual
environment where, by nailing
his 95 theses against Papal indul-
gences on his church door,
Luther launched the Protestant
Reformation. The
recaptured the 16th-century
spirit to an extraordinary extent,
particularly in the architecture.
Niall MacGinnis, the English
actor, makes Luther a much
more benign and gentle figure
than the dynamic person he
actually was —he commands
more by his ideas than by the
way he puts them over.
“On Closer Inspection” is an
unusual film shot in an English
garden, and “The Steel Worker”
is a spectacular impression of the
work and life of steel-makers at
Wollongong (N.S.W.), narrated
with tough humor by a member
of the union.
“Figure Head” is a puppet-
film based on a verse by Cornish
poet Crosbie Garstin. It is about
the wooden figure of a saint
which ends-up as the figurehead
of a sailing-vessel and object
of a mermaid’s love. It is funny
enough, but crude in color and
execution.
-<2*
“Night People”
The title refers to the Rus-
sian authorities in Berlin, who,
according to this story, always
do their kidnappings and other
malefactions under cover of
darkness.
Being anxious to put them-
selves in a strong bargaining
position, the Reds kidnap the
corporal-son of a U.S. Senator,
whom they then offer to swap
for a blind German ex-General
and his English wife on whom
they are anxious to get their
claws. That is where the U.S.
Occupation Force’s chief
trouble-shooter. Colonel Gregory
Peck, comes in.
In the role of a man able and
willing to play the Russkis at
their own game, Peck gives quite
an arresting performance —and
he also makes a convincing show
of subduing the rumbustious,
weight-throwing politician who
casts-up to tell the Army how
to do its job. Bull-necked
Broderick Crawford’s portrayal
of an arrogant politician gradu-
ally being chastened is a good
stretch of acting, and Anita
Bjork’s portrayal of the Soviet
agent is another. At Sydney
Regent.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Lady Wants Mink”
And, of course, the lady,
spurred on by her neighbor’s
acquisition of a luscious full-
length coat of it, and having de-
termination and imagination,
gets it. Gets lots of it, in fact,
by growing it on the hoof in the
backyard.
The domestic scenes ring true,
especially one ding-dong row
between the neighbor-wives
through which the husbands
secretly maintain friendship
while pretending to register hos-
tility.
The comedy is in the hands of
four skilled practitioners: Wil-
liam Demarest, as a “bomb”-
disposal expert (he sells used
cars and buys his wife mink);
Dennis O’Keefe, as the harassed
husband of the amateur mink-
fancier, and Eve Arden and
Ruth Hussey, as their respective
spouses. At Sydney Esquire,
* ❖ ❖
“The Caddy”
Opportunities for the knock-
about stuff to which Dean
Martin and Jerry Lewis pin
their faith aren’t as numerous
as usual in this opus. Here they
invade big-time golf, the loud-
mouthed Lewis being bag-
carrier and adviser-in-chief to
his mate. As is customary with
the pair, Martin gets the plums
and his dumbbell offsider the
stones. There are a few
sequences which Stretch the
risible muscles. At Sydney
Capitol.


Dad
drains the
oil
by
Colin
Thiele
DAD drained the oil one
day, and I’ll never forget
it. Dad won’t forget it
either ; they wouldn’t let
him, even if he wanted to, be-
cause he’s become a sort of
legend in his own time.
“What did you say your name
was?” they ask.
“Stasinoski! ”
“Not Stephen Stasinoski—the
fellow who drained the oil?”
At first Dad used to be a bit
touchy about it, and as like as
not he’d blow up. “What if it
is.?” he’d say and stick out his
jaw ; or “What’s it to you, Joe?”
and take his big hairy hands out
of his pockets as if there was
work for them to do around the
place.
But after a while he got too
canny for that, because ten to
one it’d draw a crowd. Talk
about smell out a stoush; the
fellows up our way are like blow-
flies round a skinning-shed. So
he’d just leave his hands in his
pockets and laugh and say,
hollow-like, “Don’t tell me there
are more jokers around here with
a name like mine?” And then
he’d push off and leave it at that.
But he didn’t fool me. I reckon
those hands of his were opening
and closing inside his pockets,
practising making themselves
into fists just for the satisfaction
of it. But there wasn’t anything
that he or anyone else could do
about it now, so there it was. If
he hadn’t drained the oil it might
have been different.
But he had.
D EALLY, I s’pose it goes back
to the days of our sulky
and buggy. The sulky was mainly
for running a quick trip into
the railway-siding during the
week, but the buggy was for go-
ing to church on Sundays and
cutting a dash. Dad was a
beauty with the whip. He’d come
bowling down the track at a
gallop and I’d run barefooted
with my head forward and my
arms out like a rooster, to open
the gate. Then the spinning
wheels would slow down and
start to grow spokes again, and
Dad would drive past me
through the gate, sitting up as
stiff and disdainful as the rick-
shaw-passengers in our school
geography-book.
“Take the winkers,” he’d say;
“unharness Nugget, and push the
sulky into the shed.”
Then he’d stride up to the
house to tell Mum what he
thought she ought to know about
the news he’d heard at the siding.
It was pretty clear to me that
Dad was a fair-minded sort of
boss in his own home. But it
was even clearer that he was
boss.
Dad hated motor-cars. He
hated them with a zeal that
hardened with the passage of the
years. I suppose all people who
fight a losing battle of ideals
grow hard like that. Conviction
slowly knots-up into obstinacy.
That’s how it was with Dad. One
by one he’d seen his friends fall
under the choking, racketing
spell, and the good buggies with
their polished poles and their fine
carbide lamps had been pushed
further back into their sheds for
the fowls to roost on. The
horses and drays and spring-
carts thinned-out on the roads
before his eyes. Almost before
he knew it Dad was an oddity.
But he was a proud one; proud
and defiant and arrogant.
“Why don’t you buy a car?”
they’d say to him at church.
“You and old Bert Heusler are
the only two in the district with-
out one.”
“When are you goin’ to buy a
car, Mr. Stas?” the young larri-
kins used to pipe, chirping a nice
blend of persuasion and derision.
“Why don’t we buy a car,
Dad —everyone else’s got one?”
we youngsters used to say, bit-
terly tasting the humility of our
ebbing social status at school,
A pink flush always popped
out on Mum’s cheek then, as she
fluttered pitifully over the tea-
pot.
“Peter! Will you stop annoy-
ing your father! You’ve been
told before.”
Usually Dad froze us with a
look, but sometimes he’d treat
us to a terrible blast of words so_
that we’d just sit in trembling
admiration.
“When I want to sit behind a
damned fire-wagon,” he’d say;
“when I want to stew and sweat
gravy-juice down my hams, and
have my ear-drums split with
the devil’s own racket; when I
feel like breathing in smoke and
burnt-oil and carbon monoxide
instead of good fresh air—then
I’ll buy a motor-car. But by
thunder, not before.”
So the wheels of our sulky
spun round more furiously, the
whip flicked Nugget more was-
pishly. Dad became more and
more of an oddity, and our
humility sank deeper and deeper.
Cars began to dress in chrome,
cars genuflexed, cars grew whole
families of cylinders, cars leapt
off bridges and climbed trees.
And with it all Dad developed
a ghoulish delight in the daily
accident-columns.
“Woman disfigured for life”
he'd read out; “Battery acid
pours over face in car crash.”
And again, “Leg torn off be-
low the knee! Man’s eyes
gouged out and scalp severed by
shattered glass in shocking
bridge crash.”
“Let’s buy a car,” he’d say,
“and keep the hospitals going.
How about getting a car and
helping to build a nation of
cripples! ”
And he’d laugh a terrible grat-
ing laugh that richochetted off
the brassware, drained our faces,
and made the cooker on the stove
hiss with fear.
AND then he bought one!
There’s no need to go into
details about the reasons. Per-
haps he’d been weakening in-
wardly for years, and had just
been hiding behind a pugnacious
shell. Perhaps it was the way
young Fitzgerald drove Mary
into hospital after she’d been
gored by the roan bull. Perhaps
our constant nagging just wore
him down by gnawing into his
pride. Anyway, he bought a
car, and it was a beauty.
Now there was one thing
about Dad, He was careful and
he was thorough. If he’d bought
a good car, then it was going to
remain a good car —same as his
plough or his harvester or his
big double-bed. Nobody was
going to say that Stephen Stasi-
noski didn’t look after his things.
“Drive slowly for the first
thousand miles or so,” Bert Wat-
son, the dealer from Gonunda
said. “Check your tyres and
radiator and battery every week,
and see that you drain the sump
at five hundred.”
Dad wrote it all down on a
piece of paper. “A machine is
just like a horse,” he said ; “treat
it right and it’ll go right.”
I suppose everything would
have gone right, too, if old Aunt
Olga up at Minnipa hadn’t got
her fingers in the chaff-cutter and
gone off to hospital. That meant
that Mum had to go up and
run her brother’s house for a
few weeks, and of course we had
to drive her up in the new car.
“Damn’ nuisance,” said Dad
emphatically. “Why couldn’t
she keep her fingers to herself?
Now the five hundred’ll come up
on the speedo just when we’re
on the way back, and I’ll have to
drain the oil on the road.”
And that was exactly how it
happened. It was eightly miles
to Minnipa through the dust and
sand and mallee, and it was
eighty miles back through the
mallee and sand and dust. And
it was hot! Even the sleepy
lizards weren’t risking their bel-
lies on the road, and we all knew
what that meant.
We dropped Mum and the
kids at her brother’s place and
had a bit of lunch, but Dad was
restless.
“Got to be getting back,” he
said. “It’s a long way and we
can’t drive fast.”
. So we pulled out just after one
o’clock, with the kids yelling and
waving, and Dad and me sitting
up like royalty. Luckily there
was a bend in the track through
the scrub after a chain or two,
because we couldn’t have kept
up our stiff backs for long. The
car had been standing in the
glare of the sun by the gate, and
the upholstery got me like the
hot-plate of an oven where my
short pants ended. Dad’s face
was as wet and spongy and red
as a piece of corned beef, and
he kept complaining that the salt
was trickling down and stinging
his eyes.
“Silly old cow,” he growled.
“Why the devil must she stick
her fingers in the chaff-cutter in
the middle of a heat-wave ; why
couldn’t she wait for a cool-
change? You can fry an egg on
the back seat!”
I had an uneasy feeling that
the day wasn’t very propitious,
and after an hour or so the
figures on the speedometer
started to mesmerise me and jerk
my eyes round with them every
time another mile turned up
slowly and slipped into place.
“Only another five miles,” said
Dad, and I’ll have to stop and
drain the oil.”
A few minutes later it was
four, and then three, and two,
and one.
Dad stopped, the heat
came up off the road and
slapped us in the face. The dust
from the powdery track
stretched away hot and still in
the sun like a grey cutting worn
down into the flat plain of the
mallee.
“Whew,” said Dad. “Wouldn’t
want to run out of petrol in a
place like this. Real goanna
country ; not a house for miles.”
He took a spanner from the
tool-kit and got down on his
stomach by the side of the car.
“Ow!” he said. “Hell, this
ground’s hot! Get me that bag
from the boot.” He spread it out
then, lay prone again, and
reached a long arm in under the
engine. Presently he wriggled
convulsively, trying to squeeze
forward, but there was no room
for his big shoulders and he lay
there for a moment quite still
like a decapitated body pinned
down by the chassis. I got down
on all fours and peered in beside
him.
“Why they can’t build these
things a bit higher, I don’t
know,” he said. “A fellow has to
be a damned carpet-snake to get
under ’em.” He strained forward
again at full stretch, and then
suddenly his whole body con-
vulsed violently backwards, the
spanner flew ringing against the
front wheel and the back of his
head jerked up against the
chassis with a crash.
“That exhaust,” he yelled.
“It’s red-hot.”
For a minute he sat up,
dishevelled, by the side of the car,
sucking the burn on his wrist.
“Cars! Blasted cars!” A vin-
dictive note was Creeping into
his voice and I could see his old
anger rising again. There was
irony, too, always a bad sign
with Dad. “Watch the battery,”
he said suddenly to himself.
“Check the tyres, drain the oil.
If I weren’t so darn particular
I’d leave the darned stuff in
there.” He sat silently, regarding
a piece of chewed-looking lime-
stone on the side of the road.
“And it’s not as if it’s easy.
You’ve got to strain your guts
out to do it.”
“Perhaps if you come at it
from the other side,” I suggested.
“It might be easier that way.”
“It might at that,” he said, and
round we went.
But it was no better. In the
end he had to scrape out a trench
in the sand and dust, wriggle in
piecemeal, and lie there on his
back. Then twice the spanner
slipped off the plug-head and he
barked his knuckles. He had
streaks of grease down his face
and in his hair and over his
white Sunday shirt.
“What a principle!” he skid,
gritting his teeth for an even
stronger pull. “What a damned
stupid ignoramus principle.” And
then at last the thread gave and
he let out a little grunt of satis-
faction as he started to unscrew
the plug,
“Just new, I s’pose,” he'said,
glancing back forgivingly along
the line of his stomach towards
me. “Still a bit stiff.”
But he shouldn’t have taken
his eyes off the plug he was un-
screwing. For it came away
with the unexpectedness of all
plugs, and the hot oil shot out
in an inverted gusher. All over
Dad’s hand it went, and down his
arm, and into a spreading pool
in the trench he’d made, so that
long before he could scrabble
out, yelling and shrieking, his
back and his neck and his hair
were soaked in it, black and
clogged and dripping.
TT took me ten minutes to clean
A the worst of the mess off him
and calm him down a bit. But
even then he was a terrible sight,
with matted bits of dirt and lime-
stone dangling from his hair like
ear-rings, and the greasy sheen
of the oil glistening on his arms
and shoulders.
“Never again,” he said as he
climbed back slowly into the
driver’s seat at last. “I done it
once, but never again. Next time
it can stay there and be damned
to it.”
He started the car and settled
back glumly as we drove on
again down the hot dusty road.
He sat brooding for a little while
and then started to feel round in
his trousers’ pockets with his
free hand.
“I just remembered,” he said
presently, “I forgot to ask that
chap Watson about the plug.
Better keep it, 1 s’pose, just in
case.” And he took it from his
left trouser pocket, wiped it on
his shirt, and put it away in the
glove box.
I don’t know which one of us
first guessed that there was some-
thing wrong. When I heard the
strange pinging noise coming
from the engine I glanced at
Dad, but he looked away out
of the side window at the scrub.
I had the feeling that he had
heard it too, but was trying to
convince it that he wasn’t
in the least interested, and that
therefore it ought to go away
and not bother him any more.
Instead, it grew worse. A hissing
groan joined the pinging and
then a heavy wheeze, but when I
looked up' alarmed at Dad he
just stared away abstractedly like
someone trying to catch a faint
far message. And then I saw
smoke ; thick wreaths of it com-
ing out from under the bonnet.
“Hey,” I'yelled. “Look!”
We had just come to a low
ridge of red sand, and Dad was
trying to accelerate. “Damn
thing won’t puli,” he said,
straining over the wheel to help
it along. “And listen to the
noise.” The grating groans and
wheezes swept suddenly to a
terrible crescendo. Dad tried an
anguished gear-change, failed,
and we stalled. His voice was
almost a whisper. “Cars!” he
said tensely, “Cars!”
He tried the starter but it
seemed to be jamrtied, so he got
out and lifted the bonnet. A
gust of smoke and glistening heat
swept up at us and we recoiled,
arms to our faces. “Look at
that!” he cried. “Red-hot!
Glowing red-hot.”
For half-an-hour we coaxed
and fussed and fumed, trying to
turn handles or dip-sticks into the
petrol-tank. But our efforts were
spasmodic and without heart.
■pROM the first we both knew
the truth. We would have
to walk. It wouldn’t do for me
to describe the way Dad looked
as we trudged off down the road,
or the things he said about cars
and engines and oil and chaff-
cutters and women and mallee
trees and heat and men called
Watson.
But by and by his tongue
started to stick to the roof of his
mouth, the dust filtered down
into his throat, and the terrible
stream of words faltered and
shrank and dried up into barren-
ness like the wilderness around
us. And so we walked on in
silence.
We carried the sun on our
backs for fourteen miles that day.
through the sand and dust, with
o Continued on page 27)


HOW DOES YOUR GARDEN GROW?
With silver bells? Cockle shells? Not these days.
Take the chap next door who grows those lettuces
twice as big as yours. He knows the way to get the
best results is to dig in the mulch, the fertilizers, the
soil conditioners. For what you get from the soil
depends on what you put back into it.
General Motors-Holden’s operate much the same
way. The productivity of their industrial soil depends
in large measure on what they put into it. In the post-
war years more than 80 per cent, of their operating
profits have been ploughed back into the business
providing the funds for research, the new equipment,
the new plants, the planning and development of more
and better products.
To keep their garden growing, General Motors-
Holden’s employ more than 30 million pounds in the
business. And because it is an efficient business,
because they put back “into the soil” the things that
provide for continued healthy growth, GMH are
achieving big results results that bring widespread
benefits to many thousands of Australians.
But unlike the home gardener who is concerned only
with his own plot the.effects of GMH operations are
spread over much wider fields. To produce the cars
and trucks, the Frigidaire refrigerators, the Nasco
Parts and Accessories, the industrial and power
equipment. General Motors-Holden’s draw on materials,
components, parts, made by thousands of supporting
industries steel, timber, iron, rubber, wool, leather,
paper, plastics and countless other things that go into
the manufacture of the wide range of GMH products.
The successful operation of General Motors-Holden’s
contributes to the success of many more industries
each one enriching the soil of Australian enterprise.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd. is a big business . . .
doing big things for Australia.
/''i J
... a link in the chain of Australia’s progress
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
17. More Mitchell
/ / K I O,” Mitchell says, “I
couldn’t get a damn’
line —until he made
the move I was wait-
ing for. Then I got a lead, a
real lead.” He blew out smoke
and turned and looked at me.
“Can you guess what the lead
was, Delaney?” he says.
“No.”
“It was you! Carson sent for
you! You were the lead I was
looking for.”
“Me!”
“You!”
“But you didn’t know me from
a bar of soap!”
“No. But when Carson sent
for you I had my lead.”
“How the hell did you know
he sent for me?”
I’m gaping at this Mitchell
and he looks back at me and got
a grin on his long face. In my
mind it’s running round how he
got on that plane—no, he was on
the plane when I got on it—and
he sits there and tells me he knew
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no refe.ence is intended
to any person alive or dead.
Carson sent for me. And it
comes to me he’s been watching
me ever since I came to Murray-
ford.
“So you knew he sent for
me?”
“That’s right.”
“How the hell would you
know that?”
“Simple. Five minutes after
Carson sent you the telegram I
had a copy of it. I can tell you
what it said. It said ; ‘Want you
in Murrayford first plane wait
for me.’ That’s what it said.”
“But telegrams is secret.
They”
“We’ve always understood that
to be so,” puts in Mellish.
“So it is, so it is,” says Mit-
chell. “But when a Government
officer with my authority tells
the post-office he wants a copy
of every telegram lodged or a
record of every telephone-call
made by a specific person for
security purposes he gets what
he wants. I may as well tell you
now that every wire sent by Car-
son, as well as every telephone-
call he made, unless it was made
from a public call-box, was re-
layed to me. So I knew he sent
for you, Delaney.”
“But you was in Murrayford.
How”
“The telegram had your
address. It had to find you. It
was sent late one afternoon. It’s
my business —or, rather, it’s the
business of my department —to
know airline services inside out.
There are only three planes a
day into Murrayford from where
you were. I decided I’d be with
you on the flight to Murrayford.
I wanted to size you up. I didn’t
know who you were or why
Carson wanted you.
“There’s a night plane east
leaves here at seven-ten every
night,” he tells us. “It had
several vacant seats. A tele-
phone-call booked one for a pas-
senger named L. D. M. Mitchell.
Just before it left an undertaker
named Honey got to the airport,
carrying a small bag. He went
to the lavatory. A minute or so
later L. D. M. Mitchell, in a
long overcoat and cap pulled
down over his eyes, came out of
the lavatory, got his ticket and
paid for it, and at seven-ten flew
out of Murrayford. Four hours
later I was in your city, Delaney,
and within an hour of my arrival
officers were checking airline
passenger-lists for Murrayford,
looking for your name. Do you
mind?”
I look at him. Did I mind?
But it was Mellish he wag talking
to when he said that. Because
he was looking at Mellish and
reaching out for Mellish’s
whisky.
“Go ahead,” says Mellish.
“This is the most interesting
thing we’ve ever heard. Just a
moment. The days are drawing
in now.”
While Mellish gets up and
goes to the switches to give us
some light I notice how dark it’s
got. The only sound is Mitchell
pouring water on top of the
whisky in the glass. Mellish’s
feet don’t make any sound as
he walks on the carpet back to
his desk. Outside the cars are
putting on their headlights and
people going home, but the
sounds they make don’t reach in
here. So I sit there and watch
Mitchell and wait for him. He
puts down the glass and shrugs
his shoulders and spreads his
hands.
“So you rang-up the airline
and booked your seat, Delaney,
and when you boarded the plane
there I was, in the seat beside
you.”
“You arrange that, too?”
“It was unnecessary. It just
happened that way. So you and
I flew together to Murrayford.”
“And when we got here you
pulled the quick-change in the
lavatory again.”
“That’s right.”
“Well, fat lot of good it done
you. Because you got nothing
out of me on the plane.”
Mitchell grins. When he grins
he looks a lot better.
“Oh, I don’t know,” he says.
“I did get a double-rum and I
did realise the kind of customer
you are.”
“You thought, when you
piped-up about the rum, it’d
maybe start something?”
“Frankly, yes. But it didn’t
work. So”
“It didn’t work because I
didn’t know what kind of a job
Carson had for me.”
“Do you know now?”
“Never mind about that. What
about CarsOn?”
“Just what do you know, De-
laney?”
“About Carson getting
killed?”
“About that, too. But what
do you know about the rum-
running?”
I look at him and I look at
Mellish. I shove my hands in my
pockets and lean back in my
chair and look at the ceiling and
think of a lot of things—a whole
lot of things. Way I see it there’s
no dice for me in telling Mitchell
about the set-up at Willets. I
would have been far away from
this Murrayford long ago if it
hadn’t been for Jardine and
Jardine!
Jardine, Fredericka, Olnec,
Carson, rum, eucalyptus.
Mitchell says he can prove
Carson was murdered. Inspec-
tor McLardie wants to prove I
murdered Jardine. Carson was
in with Fredericka on the rum.
Jardine knew about the rum.
He probably knew about Carson.
What was Jardine looking for in
my room and why did he pull
the gun on himself? I stare up
at the ceiling and it all goes
round in my head.
And suddenly I remember the
shock Fredericka got when I
told her about Mitchell saying
Carson was no accident. I see
her face and the look on it, and
when I think about that look it
comes to me it was something
more than ordinary shock.
“Wait,” she whispers and gets a
hold of herself. “The door,”
she says, and she’s shocked and
frightened. Because what I tell
her makes her see something she
hasn’t seen before, and whatever
it is she don’t want Olnec or Mac
to know about it. And it’s tied in
with Carson getting killed, and
maybe Jardine, and that means
Delaney is tied-in somewhere.
“Look,” I says to Mitchell,
“when I come here I didn’t
know what Carson had for me.
And before I could contact him
he’s dead. He’s supposed to get
killed fixing a tyre, but you say
he was dead before that. You
say somebody done him in. I
got to know about that. Because
there’s a lot more in this than
you know and more than I can
get hold of. Now you ask me
about the rum. All right, I’m
asking you about Carson. Let’s
start from there.”
“If you’ll excuse the interrup-
tion,” puts in Mellish, “there is
something that must be said.”
He’s sitting at the desk, with
his arms resting on it and his
hands clasped, and his lined face
looks older. Because it’s stern
and hard, and his eyes looking at
us like we’re a couple of little
boys caught pinching apples.
“Both of you,” says Mellish,
and his voice is flat and cold,
“are obsessed with your own
peculiar interests in this. Mr.
Mitchell, you cannot get beyond
this alleged rum-running. Mr.
Delaney, you naturally are think-
ing about the charge against you.
Now what both of you must do
is realise that we’ll get nowhere
if you persist in yoUr several
attitudes.”
He clenches one hand and
thumps his desk with it. “Good
God, gentlemen,” he says in a
loud voice, “can’t you under-
stand that two men are dead and
that Delaney here stands charged
with the murder of one of them?
Can’t you understand that?”
We don’t say anything.
“Mr. Mitchell,” Mellish says,
“at least you realise that you are
suppressing evidence, if what you
said about the late Mr. Carson
is true, and the police would
take a poor view of that?”
“I am holding evidence back,”
says Mitchell, sharply, “and for
a very good purpose.”
“Such as?” I says.
“Such as part of my duty as a
revenue-officer, in the belief that
by holding it back I can achieve
my object, which is to catch the
rum-runners.”
“You know,” says Mellish,
“that yesterday the coroner re-
turned a verdict of accidental
death in the Carson case?”
“Of course. But that verdict
was given on purely superficial
evidence. It can be upset at
any time if sufficient new evi-
dence is produced.”
“When do you propose to
produce that evidence, since you
imply that you have it?”
“Oh, I have it, all right. But
what about Delaney? Is he go-
ing to tell what he knows or sit
tight and protect somebody?”
Protect somebody? So I’m
protecting somebody. It’s not
Carson, because he’s dead. If
I’m protecting anybody it’s
Fredericka and Olnec and that
Willets crowd. That Olnec might
have shot me and I got no illus-
ions about what Mac Ross might
do, if he thought a man wasn’t
watching him. I had an idea
and it took me to Allendale and
Willets. The idea was to start
with Carson and maybe it would
lead up to Jardine. Well, maybe
the idea is still working. Because
when I come right down to it I
got nobody to protect but my-
self, and what I’m protecting
myself against is Inspector Mc-
Lardie and his idea.
“Come through about Car-
son being no accident,” I says,
“and you get what I know about
the rum.”
Mitchell gives me a long look.
“All right,” he says. He sits
back in his chair and crosses his
legs.
“It was no accident, Delaney,”
he says. “Just after we both
got in on the plane that night I
got a call from the hospital. It
was, of course, about Carson.
You may remember, Delaney, an
ambulance passing the airline
bus that night. Well, it brought
Carson’s body in to the hospital.
The police had been told and
because I, as an undertaker, had
a contract with the hospital for
dead persons who were paupers
or strangers, I was called in.
With two of my men we drove
to the hospital morgue. Carson’s
body was there, just as the ambu-
lance boys left it. The police
had removed his papers and
other things. The coroner came
and brought the Government
Medical Officer with him. The
G.M.O. knew the circumstances
of the supposed accident and he
made a cursory examination,
saw how the axle-hub had
crushed the skull, and came to
the conclusion we know about.
When they left I and my two
men remained.”
Mitchell sat up a little and lit
a cigarette.
“Can you understand my state
of mind?” he goes on. “There
I was, in my pose as an under-
taker, and on the slab in front
of me was the dead body of the
man I’d been watching —the man
I believed to be the key of the
illicit-rum g business —the very
man who had sent for Delaney
and who Delaney was probably
looking for at that moment. Can
you understand my state of
mind?”
Mitchell stops talking and
looks beyond Mellish and me
into something we couldn’t see.
His long face is kind of strained.
“Yes,” Mellish says, soft. “It
must have iJeen a shock to you.”
“lit was then about eleven
o’clock,”' Mitchell says. “Every-
body except my two men and me
had gone. I was stahding near
Carson’s head. The body was
on its right side. It had been
turned up that way so the
G.M.O. could look at the
crushed-in left temple. I stood
there, looking down at Carson,
and thinking about him and won-
dering about everything. I had
a let-down feeling, because
right then it looked as though
I’d come to a dead-end. With
Carson dead like that it looked
as though I’d have to start all
over again—oh, all sorts of
things crowded into my mind.
Then Poynter —one of ‘my men
—they were taking off the clothes
and he and the other man —
Harris—wanted to turn the body
—Poynter asked me to lift and
turn the head.
“Touching dead men doesn’t
affect me,” says Mitchell. “I put
my hands under Carson’s head
to lift and turn it. My left hand
was right under the head, the
right partly under the cheek. My
left hand touched something.
Something small and hard. 1
didn’t take much notice at first
Not until after the head was
turned. Then I remembered it.
I thought it must have been a
WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD
. .Delaney, having practically
fought his way to the discovery
that the murdered Carson was
tied-up with a Mrs. Amber and
Peter Olnec in a big illicit rum-
making business, and with
enough evidence to show that
Detective Jardine’s suicide was
linked with Carson’s murder,
leaves Willets and returns to
Murrayford. There he calls to
report to the solicitor, Mellish,
and meets for the first time the
mysterious Mitchell, who is
posing as an undertaker named
Honey. Mitchell admits to being
a Commonwealth revenue
officer sent to locate the rum-
mill and says he can prove that
Carson was murdered.


tooth or a collar-stud. I looked
and saw what it was. 1 must have
looked at it for several seconds.
Then I looked at Poynter and
Harris. They were too busy to
pay any attention to me, 1
picked up the object and dropped
it in my pocket. I could hardly
suppress my excitement. Be-
cause this is what was on the slab
under Carson’s head!”
He’d put a hand in his pocket.
Now he took it out, holding a
match-box sealed with adhesive
tape. Mellish and I lean forward.
Mitchell pulls the tape off, opens
the box, upends it and out drops
a bullet. The nose is blunted and
bent to one side, but the butt-
end has held its shape. We can
see the grooves on it.
“He must have been shot in
the side of the head,” says Mit-
chell, in a kind of whisper.
“You can see how hitting the
bone blunted and bent the nose.
It went into Carson’s mouth —
at least, it looks that way—and
was there all the time. It fell
out on the slab when they turned
him on his left side. I’ll bet any-
thing you like a close examina-
tion of Carson’s skull —a
thorough post-mortem examina-
tion —will prove that.”
We sit there, looking at the
bullet.
Mellish says, “This is fantastic.
If what you say is true you
should have called the police
and”
“Yes,” cuts in Mitchell.
“Maybe I should have. Never
mind about that. Remember
finding this bullet like that, com-
ing on top of what I’d been
thinking about Carson and the
job I was on and how it gummed
everything up, put me in a daze.
What I did was go to my hotel
and sit down and do some hard
thinking. First of all I thought
about Carson. Pretty soon I
could pretty well see what had
been done to him.”
He stops and looks round the
room, like he’s trying to make
sure he isn’t back in his hotel-
room. You couldn’t have got a
word out of Mellish or me.
“Whoever killed Carson,” he
goes on, “was callous and cun-
ning. So callous and cunning
that it couldn’t have been unpre-
meditated. The killer knew what
he was doing. He got close to
Carson, so close that he couldn’t
miss, and shot him in the side
of the head. My guess is he
hailed Carson and was standing
beside the car, with Carson in
the driving-seat, when he did it.
Then he jacked the car up, took
off the wheel, shoved Carson
under it so his head would be
just under the hub. Then he
lowered the jack till he had the
hub resting fair on the bullet
wound. All he had to do then
was either smash in the head
with something and let the hub
drop on it or simply let the hub
fall suddenly. It’s a concrete
road out there, he’d leave no
tracks,”
“He’d have been in a spot if
another car had come. He’d
have to work damn’ fast,” I says.
“Yes,” Mitchell agrees. “I
thought of that. It wouldn’t take
him more than a few minutes.”
“He may not,” Mellish puts in,
in his dry voice, “have been
alone. Mr. Carson may have
been shot somewhere else and
then the car driven to where it
was found. If there were two or
three of them, it could be done
quickly.”
1 look at hirp and a kind of
heat runs over me. Because I’m
thinking of some people I know
and how they could of shot me
and were tough enough to do
what Mitchell reckons they did.
But I don’t say anything. I’ll
have plenty to say, presently, but
I’m keeping it for when Mitchell
is done telling his story.
“It’s more than possible,” he
says to Mellish. “Well, after I
thought of that I got to wonder-
ing what next. You see, I still
had my job to do. Carson get-
ting killed could mean I’d run
into a blank wall. The others
would be lying low. There
wouldn’t be ,any rum moving.
Then I thought of you, Delaney.
You’d come into Carson's suite
when Detective Jardine and Miss
Martin and I were there. I had
gone there to tell her I was
handling the body so she could
advise the relatives or solicitors
—and you were qifite plainly
shocked as much as anybody.
This was before I went to the
morgue. Later, when I was in
my room, with the bullet in front
of me, and thinking everything
over, I could see that you
thought it was an accident. You
had no idea of it being anything
else. I then conceived what
seemed a bright plan. Carson
had sent for you because he was
worried about the revenue men.
I felt certain of that. I also felt
certain that you knew why he’d
sent for you”
“Before God, I didn’t. I hadn’t
a clue”
“Well, I was certain you did
know. And I was certain you
knew who else was in the rum
business. My bright idea was to
startle you. While you believed
Carson was killed by accident
you were likely to move care-
fully. But a sudden shock—to
be suddenly told that Carson was
murdered—that Was likely to
make you act, likely to cause
some sort of panic. I knew
where you were. You told us,
when you came to Carson’s suite
that night, that you were at the
Crown. So I called you up and
told you it was no accident. I
alerted the post-office to check
any calls you might make and
“The big sedan’s lights cut a circle behind just as I whip round another corner, and I hit the
accelerator hard as I can.”
then I raced round and watched
outside the Crown. Well, it
didn’t work. Instead of rushing
out or calling anyone up you
simply waited until the morning
and then you went to the police.”
Mitchell stops talking and
lights another cirgarette. He
picks up the bullet and turns it
over and over in his fingers. I
look at him, then at Mellish, and
at Mitchell again.
“Well?” I says.
He throws the bullet down.
“That’s all,” he says. He sighs,
“We know what happened after
that. You went to the police and
Jardine grabbed you. I couldn’t
understand why he did it, but I
wanted you out of that. You
were no use to me in jail, I
wanted you loose, because I still
thought you’d lead me to where
I wanted to go. So 1 called Mr.
Mellish here and —well, you
know the rest.”
He hung his head a moment,
then he looks at me.
“But I can’t make head or tail
of Jardine,” he says,
I hardly hear him. Because I
look at the bullet and something
comes to me and I put my hand
in my coat pocket. The hand
feels the bullets there, the bullets
I took from Olnec’s gun the
night before. I take three of
them out and put them on Mel-
lish’s desk beside the one from
Carson’s head.
Mellish leans forward and
Stares at them.
Mitchell reaches out and picks
up one 6f Olnec’s bullets, in its
brass cartridge, and the bullet
from Carson’s head, and looks
at them. Then he gets out a
pocket-knife and gouges the
good bullet out of its cartridge-
case.
“By God,” he says. “They’re
the same, or I’m a Dutchman.”
“Me, too,” I says.
“Good gracious,” says Mel-
lish, “if you know who owns the
weapon they came from, De-
laney, we”:
“I know, all right. A man
named Olnec has the gun.”
“Olnec?”
“The chemist at the eucalyptus
works?” says Mellish.
“That’s right.”
Neither of them says anything
for a while. I’m sitting there
and I’m seeing Olnec and
Fredericka, and I’m remember-
ing Carson, and Joyce Martin
and the way she drew all her
savings to fix my bail. I’m sitting
there seeing poor old Jardine
and that Fredericka looking like
a cat that’s eaten a mouse when
she tells me about him, and I’m
seeing McLardie and that Kees-
ing and the way Arentz stood up
for me. Now 1 got something.
Now I can blow the works wide
open. Because the idea that took
me to Allendale and then back
to Willets is coming good. It
• “Delaney,” says Mellish, and
his voice is kind of low and goes
right through me, so that I jump
a little. “Delaney, do you re-
member what we told you, when
Miss Martin was here, the other
day?”
I look at him.
“Surely you remember? That
perhaps Mr. Carson would want
you to”
“Yair,” I says, “I remember.
But I’m working for Delaney,
Too.” I get out a cigarette and
light it and hand the pack across
to Mellish.
“It’s a long story,” I says.
18. Olnec
“It’s a long story,” I tell them,
“and there’s someone else ought
to hear it.”
' “Yes?”
“Joyce Martin.”
Because she backed me, and
the way I see it she’s entitled to
hear it all.
Mellish gives me one of his
long looks, then he picks up the
telephone and fingers the dial.
Mitchell gives me a quick look,
then he gets up and stretches his
legs and sits down again.
“Hallo,” says Mellish to the
telephone. “The Grand? Put
me through to Miss Martin,
please. Miss Joyce Martin.”
We wait.
There’s faint clicks in the tele-
phone, then a voice. I can’t
understand the words.
“Hallo, is that you, Miss Mar-
tin? Mellish here Would it be
too much trouble for you to
come to the office? —no, wait,
please.” He put a hand over the
mouthpiece and looks at us and
says, “We seem to be in for a
long sitting. I, for one, need
something to eat. Let us adjourn
to the Mellish home. We can
pick up Miss Martin, and Mrs.
Mellish will have something for
us. Agreed?” *
We nod at him. I don’t know
about Mitchell, but all I’ve had
since the meal at Bellerive is
sandwiches and coffee and I got
what the fellow calls an aching
void.
“Miss* Martin. Sorry to keep
you. We have decided to go to
the Mellish home, sustain our-'
selves, and carry on from there.
Shall we pick you up at the
Grand in, say, ten minutes?
Thank you. What’s that? Del?
Oh, Delaney. My dear child, of
course he is all right. He is
here with us. Yes, hale-and-
hearty, it seems. Very well.
Look for our car in ten minutes.”
He put the telephone on its
cradle, lifted it again, and dialled.
“Miss Martin,” he says, while
he’s listening, “asked us to tell
you how pleased she is, Delaney.
She was worried because you
hadn’t called her—eh? Parking-
station? Mellish here. Please
send our car round to the office
building at once. Thank you.”
Once more he telephones. To
tell his wife we’re coming.
By my watch it’s 7,20 when
we leave Mellish’s office. On the
ground-floor a cleaner is busy.
The place is empty and hollow.
At the kerb a small grey sedan
is waiting with its parking-lights
on. Mellish opens the rear
door.
“If you two will sit in the
rear,” he says. “Miss Martin
can ride with me.”
I want Miss Martin to ride
with me, but I don’t say any-
thing. We go away from the
kerb and head up the street to
where the big neon sign over the
Grand is glowing against the
dark.
She’s on the steps. She’s got
a light-colored dress on and a
fur cape round her shoulders.
No hat. The lights pick up her
coppery hair. She comes across
the footpath like she’s dancing
and climbs in beside Mellish. She
turns in the seat and picks me out
and reaches out a hand to me.
Mellish starts the car. I take
her hand, but I don’t look at her.
Because there’s a big black
sedan parked across the street.
Because I’ve seen that sedan be-
fore. And as we go away from
the kerb its headlights snap on
and it moves out from the kerb
and drops in behind us, keeping
its distance but tailing us.
“Mr. Mellish,” I says, “what-
ever you do don’t drive to your
house! Because there’s a car
tailing us and it isn’t a police
car! ”
Mitchell jumps and squirms
round in the seat and peers
through the rear window. Joyce
turns in the front seat and looks
past me. Her face is white in
the darkness inside the car. I
got to hand it to Mellish. That
old bird don’t panic easy, and
he knows that in a game like
this I can take the lead,
“Where will I go, Delaney?”
he says, and his voice as calm
as if he’s sitting behind his desk.
“Just keep oozing along, slow,
any way you like,” I tell him. “I
got to think this out. Way I see
it they’re after me. They didn’t
know where I was, but they
knew where Joyce was. So they
watched the Grand. Because
they know she was Carson’s sec-
retary and they’re betting she’ll
contact me or I’ll contact her,
sooner or later. Just keep ooz-
ing along, Mr. Mellish, while I
think.”
What I’m thinking about is
Fredericka Amber and the way
she tried to pump me about
Joyce, the way she thought
Joyce must know Carson’s busi-
ness. Maybe it wasn’t only me
they was looking for.
“We ought to drive straight to
the police,” Mitchell says.
“Listen, hombre,” I tell him.
“What would that get us? Soon
as they see the way we’re going
they shoot through. What we
got then?”
“You’re too much of a lone
wolf,” Mitchell says.
“I like him that way,” Joyce
says. I reach over and put the
palm of my hand on her cheek
and pat it.
“How fast can this thing go,
Mr. Mellish?” I ask.
“We are solicitors, not racing-
drivers, Delaney.”
(Continued on page 27)


. ii ii * ii *»
mm USem llliii i j
105th ANNUAL REPORT
REVEALS
Recoil B.m&£6 Tbi
VoUwflwidjMA
>•
I\}
*-w
a*
v- ~
111 MM
Highlights from address given by the Chairman
of the Principal Board (Mr. Cecil H. Hoskins)
at Head Office, Sydney, on 4th June, 1954.
NEW BUSINESS £118.000.000
In opening his address, Mr. Hoskins said:
“Although increasing age is sometimes
synonymous with relaxation of effort, this
is surely not the case with the Society; for,
though this is our 105th Annual Meeting,
I am proud to be able to report that, in
1953, the Society broke all records for the
production of new life insurance business.
No fewer than 170,441 new policies were
issued, insuring a total of over £llB million
of which almost £lOB million represented new
Ordinary insurances and
just over £lO million rep-
resented new Industrial
insurances,” Mr. Hoskins
went on to point to the improved state
of confidence at the end of the year, with
trade buoyant, inflation slowed down and
employment at high levels. As a result,
many people reviewed the adequacy of their
existing life insurance cover in the light of
post-war changes in money values.
IN HiSTOM OF
LIFE
assurance
CO
H|hiIMII LUMj
oo
1953-El 2,000,000
“The benefits which the Society pays out can
be divided into two broad classes,” Mr.
Hoskins later stated; “the claims payable on
the death of policyholders and those pay-
able under endowment insurance where
policyholders have survived the terms of
their contracts. In 1953 alone, the Society
incurred claims by death of about £6 million,
and claims under matured policies for a
similar amount.” The
money paid under
matured policies was
used in a number of
ways: To supplement retirement
income, to repay mortgages on
homes, to provide higher education for
children and so on. Death claim benefits
were normally earmarked for the support
of the deceased policyholder’s dependants
and, in the case of younger men, often
formed the bulk of their estates.
largest
w history of
AUSTRALIAN
LIFE
assurance
ASSETS EXCEED £277,000,000
“At the dose of 1953 ” said Mr. Hoskins,
“total assets exceeded £277 million, an
increase of £2l* million over the 1952
figure.” The investment of such funds was
a task of great magnitude and the Principal
Board drew heavily on the valuable local
knowledge of the members of the Branch
Boards in the other States, in New Zealand
and in London, He went on to refer to
the stability of the gilt-edged market com-
pared with 1952 and the fact that the Society
had increased its hold-
ings of Commonwealth
Government securities.
However, the most fav-
oured outlet for funds
in 1953 was mortgage
loans for home pur-
chase, on industrial and commer-
cial premises, and on rural securities,
holding of company debentures was
increased.
m
MANAGEMENT COSTS
REDUCED
Despite record new busi-
ness and its attendant expenses, the Society’s
expense rate had been significantly reduced.
“For Ordinary business,” Mr. Hoskins went
on, “the rate of expenses (including taxes
other than income and land taxes) to
premium income has fallen from 15.31%
(in 1952) to 14.69% in 1953. For Industrial
business, the corresponding rate has fallen
from 26.37 to 25.33, Measured as a pro-
portion of the Society’s total income in the
respective departments, the rates for 1953
would be 10.66 for Ordinary business and
19.11 for Industrial business.”
STAFF
After congratulating the
administrative and field staffs concerned
with new business production, Mr. Hoskins
added that “we are fortunate that ... we
have a strong team of field representatives.”
Referring to the indoor staff generally, he
conveyed thanks to all for their loyalty and
industry, “whether their work is concerned
with underwriting, accounting, investment,
general administration, or any of the other
activities which go to make up the organisa-
tion of a large life office.”
LAND
DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
The Society’s Land Development Scheme at
Coonalpyn Downs was progressing steadily
and, though much remained to be done, "it
is heartening to report that, in December
last, the Board had the pleasing duty of
offering the first blocks of developed pastures
to settlers who joined the Project in its early
stages. This is an important milestone in
the history of the Project, and the number
of developed blocks becoming available for
transfer each year is expected to increase
considerably over the next few years.”
SAVING
AND INVESTMENT
Mr. Hoskins said that his impression was
that in 1953 the nation’s attitude to saving
was much healthier than it had been for
some time past. The increased flow of
savings had undoubtedly made for easier
conditions in the capital market, but the
need for still greater saving to finance Aus-
tralian development remains. “The primary
responsibility for making the most of our
opportunities rests with ourselves. Promin-
ent in the list of requirements essential for
the development of an economy is the
ability and willingness of its citizens to
maintain a high rate of saving.”
BoMAMto
RoUecU
.. . . . The Society has had a very
sr;«rr^r=.. —• ,M •
for 1952”•
mm
Australian mutual Provident Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield


AT
£ WOSPITAt
r r
( /
EAUIi
Is
:
RAN
SL
7"
First in Quality —First in Favour
nATEAI UNUHnA
The Brandy of Distinction.
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, ESTB. 1838
Some Hair-razing History
Old Blades, Old Shavers
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
nITH odd courage, per-
I\ / ha P s ’ 1 adhere t 0 my
\A/ blade-razor, now as
v * well worn as Samuel
Pepys’s pumice - stone. My
father, presenting me with it
when I was in fourth-form at
school, masterfully guided my
hand, weapon enclosed, over my
chin, felling the
tarnished - silver
fungus.
For weeks after-
wards I was sat on
by form-mates while
ink-stained fingers
pinched and plucked
at “overlooked”
hairs—a ritual which
may have had its
origin in times b.c.,
when the first day of
shaving was cele-
brated as the
entrance into manhood for
Roman youths.
The bone handle of the razor
is now severely yellowed, but
the blade, or that part of it be-
yond the neck which Jhas not
been stropped away over the
years, is of finest-quality steel.
And it only cuts me when I
leave myself five instead of ten
minutes for the sort of toilet
nowadays obligatory in busi-
ness. But I sometimes wonder
how the ancient Egyptian busi-
nessman of the third to the sixth
Late Bronze-Age Razor. The cutting-
edge was the inner edge of the sickle-
shaped blade, which was “fixed.”
dynasty (4990-4275 b.c., accord-
ing to Manetho) managed the
shining morning face and how
long obtaining it took him. And
how painful the process was!
For his razor was shaped
much like the butter-pat some
farmers’ wives still use ; and if
to shave was to suffer, then he
must have found a measure of
consolation during periods of
mourning in the custom that
adjured him to let his beard
grow at such times —a kind
of falling facial-barometer of
bereavement.
It was a fixed-razor with one
cutting-edge, along either of the
sides that fanned-out slightly
from the base of the ivory
handle. The metal was bronze.
The specimen of it which here
appears in diagram was the old-
est example in the collection of
razors I saw exhibited in the
English Shaving Bowl, 1632.
Made of bronze, it resembled a
deep fruit-dish. The shaver’s
neck rested in the “lip” in the
side.
Science Museum, South Ken-
sington, London, in 1951, as one
of the many exhibitions and
displays held in conjunction
with the Festival of Britain.
The collection, loaned by
James H. Rand, Esq., did not
tell me what I wanted to know —
when the cut-throat razor, of
which I consider my own a sort
of bar-sinister descendant, was
invented or first used. Never-
theless, it contained enough
bizarre objects (all originals) to
match the instruments of torture
in Madame Tussaud’s Chamber
of Horrors.
Ancient Egyptian Razor, 3rd to 6th
Dynasty. A “fixed”-razor, its blade was
of bronze, with one cutting-edge. The
handle was of ivory.
In the late Bronze Age, ap-
parently by a whittling develop-
ment, the shape of razors had
assumed small, thick - sickle
dimensions and were a handy
pocket-knife size, although the
blade was still fixed. The
cutting-edge, as with the sickle,
was the inner edge.
The Bronze Age specimen
depicted here, of course; is quite
likely not of the shape, size or
style of razors that were em-
ployed by all shavers in the
“cradle”-area of civilisation at
that time; but it is
just possible that
designs did travel with
the material from
which they were
formed, and the move-
ment of bronze is worth
noting briefly for the
relation it may have
borne to the movement
of the razor westward.
The earliest pieces of
bronze which historians
appear to have so far
discovered were found in
the ancient palace of Knossos
on Crete. The palace was built
French Razor, 18th Century. A
“straight”-razor, it was an ante-
cedent of today’s “cut-throat.”
Its movable blade was of stained
steel and handle of black bone.
about 1500 years before the
birth of Christ; but the bronze
had probably been brought to
Crete by either the übiquitous
Phoenicians or the Egyptians
themselves.
The metal—or alloy; it was
“snobbish copper” mixed with
“vulgar tin” —is believed to have
found its way to both Egypt and
Sumeria 5000 years before the
building of Knossos, about
6000 b.c. or 7000 b.c. The
Semitic people, of whom the
Phoenicians were the sea-going
relations, conquered Sumeria —
the then fertile country between
the Tigris and the Euphrates —
in 2750 b.c., and no doubt the
bronze was part-and-parcel of
the unconditional surrender and
was later taken by the Phoeni-
cians to Crete,
But Egypt and Crete were
actively trading with each other
in 4000 b.c., and, as the Egyp-
tians are definitely known to
have been shavers, I favor them
as the men from whom the
westerners first got the habit and
the instrument.
From Crete the metal reached
the mainland during the age
of the Trojan wars, somewhere
about the 11th and 10th cen-
turies b.c., travelling to Greece,
and then bn to Italy. Romans,
certainly, and very likely other
residents of the western half of
the Mediterranean, were scrap-
ing their chins with at least
plausible descendants of the
Egyptian razor in the 4th cen-
tury A.D.
Alexander the Great specifi-
cally ordered his soldiers to
shave, so that when they grabbed
the whiskers of their enemies,
the bearded Persians, in battle,
the Persians would not be able
to annul the advantage by
grabbing back. The poor Per-
sians, because of traditional
English “Straight Razor, 1870.
Weighty but stylish, both handle
and blade were all-steel. The
scales were of Sheffield plate.
taboos —the loss of a beard
meant degradation did not
dare shave, to their subsequent
and utter defeat.
In Mr. Rand’s collection a
rather large gap in the sequence
occurred at this point of razor
development, for the next speci-
men on display was a French
weapon of 18th-century (a.d.)
vintage. Perhaps, too, many
throats were cut by the earlier
razors, which, as a result, were
replaced by the innocuous, less
efficacious pumice-stone as used
by Pepys until the morning of
January 6, 1664, when he
recorded in his diary that he had
begun to “trimme myself with
a razer.”
Pepys, however, for all his
adventurousness in other social
fields, may have been rather
slow to adopt “new-fangled”
shaving methods; for there was
in use in England in 1632 a
shaving - bowl of considerable
significance in razor progress.
The specimen in the collection
was made of bronze; it was in
appearance much like a deep
fruit-dish. Into its side a “lip”
was cut, in which the shaver’s
neck rested, as on an execution-
block.
Probably intended as a re-
ceptacle for water, suds and
splash, the bowl was obviously
an evolution from the bras£
barber’s-basin which Don Quix-
ote wore as a helmet. Ancient
utensils, stemming maybe from
times when barbers were also
surgeons and practised blood-
letting, basins of the Quixote
variety had a semicircular gap
in one side to accommodate the
customer’s throat. I once saw
one of them featured on a sign
outside a medieval-looking
barber’s-shop in Porto Bello
(Scotland).
In the Middle Ages high-
ranking gentlemen were clean-
shaven — how, seems decidedly
questionable.
In France, a century after
Pepys, until the 1830’s, when the
French captured Algiers and
borrowed full beards from the
Berbers, razors were in fairly
general use. The majority of
them were probably as dis-
commoding to look at as the
one in the Rand collection,
which bore a cadaverous resem-
blance in miniature to a railway-
signal. Its handle (the signal-
post) was made of black bone,
and the blade (the signal) was
of stained steel. Its only virtue,
apart from the fact that its
blade was not bronze, seemed
to reside in its being a sample,
at last, of today’s cut-throat or
“straight” razor, the blade no
longer fixed but movable on the
end of the handle per courtesy
of an iron peg that would have
done justice to a dungeon door-
hinge.
In spite of the potential vil-
lainy of that instrument, the
Frenchman, who wielded it may
have looked askance at the giant
weapon an English barber in
Boston, across the
Channel, was fluorish-
ing about the same
time.
Ugly and heavy,
Boston (Eng.) razor had
a handle like a small
truncheon, also of black
bone. The blade, com-
posed of a dark, dirty
steel, was shaped like a
chopper. It was also
a “straight” razor, as
was a companion-piece
to it, dated 1780 and
obviously a gentleman
—all steel and stylish,
with scales of Sheffield plate ; a
weighty but elegent specimen,
with an intimidating but solid-
ringing handle, fit appointment
for milord’s bedroom.
More colorful, but less civil-
ised, was a near-by specimen of
opposite classification —a Chin-
ese “bent-back” razor of the
mid-19th century a.d.,' with a
humped blade of dull steel, the
size of a match-box. The handle
was part-wood, part-steel, and
of pencil thickness, and carried
the blade at its slender, steel
end by a lever-like frail attach-
ment by which the blade, mov-
able, almost seemed to dangle.
A Korean razor of the same
century comprised a blade of
bronze which, soldered at the
end of a thin, firm arm, slid into
a wide handle of smoothed, red
wood, creating the illusion,
when the instrument was closed,
of being nothing more than a
large harmless narrow cigarette-
case, when in reality it resembled
a small meat-chopper.
Chinese “Bent Back” Razor,
Mid-19th Century. Its pencil-
like handle was wooden, with a
steel tip. The blade, movable and
of matchbox size, was steel.
After having seen such an
assortment of razors anyone
who, as I do, uses a cut-throat,
and whose faith is now and
then shaken by the facial havoc
it can wreak, might feel he has
Korean Razor, 19th Century. The
large chopper-like blade was sol-
dered to a thin arm and folded into
a smoothed red-wood case.
reason enough not to dispense
with an old friend unless his
hand actually becomes palsied,
and to resist all the more
strenuously whatever temptation
there may be for him in the
mealy-mouthed “safety” razor.


0 o A o
O o f\p
0 3
the
name
Cdllum
the whisky is
(D
V
8*
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland
MC 158/6.2 THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST HAVE
STYLE
and in McCallum’s,
knowledgeable men always
find that perfection of style
brought about by the experienced
blending of grain and malt whiskies
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.-,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
fghf
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £3/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Brisbane Cup meeting, for
which added money is £40,065,
will open at Ascot this coming
Saturday with the running of the
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap
(7 furlongs) and the £2OOO St.
Leger as main attractions. On
Monday the £12,000 Brisbane
Cup (two miles), which carries
a SOOgns. trophy, and the £2500
Sires’ Produce Stakes will be
highlights, and on the final day,
June 19, the £2500 Moreton
Handicap (11 furlongs) will be
chief event. And the Q.T.C.’s
attractive Ascot track, one of the
most picturesque in Australia, is
in grand order.
This year the opening and
second days of the Q.T.C. fixture
clash with the A.J.C. winter
meeting at Randwick, which
seems a bit of unwise planning
by the northern committee, be-
cause quite a number of Sydney
racegoers, as well as a few book-
makers and one or two leading
jockeys, intend to remain at
Randwick for the A.J.C. double,
the £l5OO June Stakes and the
£2OOO Winter Stakes. Still,
there’ll be a great roll-up in Bris-
bane from most States and New
Zealand.
SELECTIONS
Stradbroke Handicap, Karendi
1 ; Bird wood 2 ; Prince Morvi 3.
Brisbane Cup, Lancaster 1 ;
Earldom 2 ; Double Blank 3.
The favorite has been de-
feated, most times unplaced, in
the Stradbroke in recent years.
The last half-dozen favorites to
let backers down have been
Tarien, Humming Top (second),
Donegal, Buzmark (third), Rio
Fe and Deep Sea. Not only did
the elect run below expectations
but winners in the six years
included Suncup (14’s), Wed-
borough (25’s) and Aqua Regis
(20’s). So if this time a favored
runner gets there it won’t be out
of turn.
Birdwood is back on the first-
line of favoritism for the Strad-
broke, joining Karendi. Gay
Vista, Prince Morvi and Grand
Topic are the only others seri-
ously entertained, though Rapid
River’s Doomben win has gained
him many friends. Birdwood, as
expected, in the weak field for
the Rosehill Flying on Saturday
had no difficulty in winning the
£650 stake, for which he was at
odds-on. His jockey, Vic
Lawrence, waited on pacemaker
Impress until the final stages,
then went ahead and won com-
fortably.
When Sydney - owned
Hydrogen, ridden by Melbourne
jockey W. Williamson, won the
Brisbane Cup last year, from
Welkin Sun and Maynard, he
started favorite at 3 to 1, but he
was the only winning favorite of
the two-miler in the past six
seasons. During that period three
outsiders —Putoko (16’s), Silver
Buzz (33’s) and Sicarda (12’s) —
had punters lamenting. New
Zealander Lancaster, a proved
stayer, is popular choice for next
Monday’s race, and on his record
he should take a lot of beating.
He impressed Sydney racegoers
before going to Brisbane for the
Cup.
• • • •
The Brisbane Cup is older in
years than the Caulfield Cup and
almost as old as the Melbourne
Cup, first run in 1861. The first
Brisbane Cup was decided in
1866, and was won by an aged
galloper named Forester, who
carried 9.11 and had three
opponents. An interesting early
winner was a Carbine, not the
noted champion. The Brisbane
Cup Carbine won in 1875; he
was an aged performer by
Tamerlane, and carried 6.8.
Fastest time for the two miles
(3.19|) was made in 1939 by
Spear Chief, who had also
landed the race a season earlier.
Northern owners have experi-
enced a lean run since Good
Idea, from Sydney, won in 1946
(the Victory Cup, run at \\
mile). The last five Cups have
gone to visiting horses: Hydro-
gen (Sydney), Putoko (Sydney-
trained), Prince o’ Fairies (Mel-
bourne), Silver Buzz (Sydney)
and Sanctus (Melbourne).
The luck of a stable can change
quickly. Leading Randwick
trainer Maurice McCarten won
three races at Canterbury a week
prior to the Rosehill fixture, but
on Saturday the stable was right
out of touch. It supplied four
minor placegetters, all of them in
keen demand. Three of the
runners finished second
Belmont Park, Impress and
Arabic—while Golden Dollar
ran third. Arabic was one of five
favorites beaten, the others which
cost punters plenty being Pipe
On, Felcia, Rickaday and Idle-
wild. However, the only real
surprise for most takers of the
odds was Blackwood, three-year-
old gelding by Delville Wood.
Paddock - bookmaker Jim
Hackett, who has bred quite a
number of horses, raced Rag
Eater, dam of Ragbo, winner of
the Rosehill Two-year-old Handi-
cap for colts and geldings. Ragbo
has shown consistency, a Hawkes-
bury Maiden win in mid-April
being followed by two good
seconds at Randwick. That form
“Told you playing folk-tales would amuse ’em!”
made him favorite for the Rose-
hill seven-furlongs contest, and
he ran the distance out strongly.
The colt is a son of Jambo (imp.).
• • • ,
Sydney has some smart two-
year-old fillies; one showing
considerable promise is Biff,
winner of four of her last six
races. She is a well-developed
Beau Son youngster from Miss
Hua by Hua. Bill Cook rode
her a masterly race at Rosehill
to win the fillies’ Two-year-old
with 9.1. With her 9.5 Happy
Harvest also ran a creditable
race. Victoria will be sending
some of its best rising three-
year-olds to Sydney in the
spring, while another visitor will
be Brisbane’s well-performed
Highland Plains, who has had
13 races for four wins, three
seconds and two thirds.
Sir Hamish, winner of the
First Murray Handicap for two-
year-olds at Caulfield on Satur-
day, improved smartly on prior
form. It seemed an impressive
effort, but the company was
modest. Sir Hamish is a son of
Attley, who has had a few
winners on Melbourne courses.
Sir Hamish’s dam, Felmax, was
got by Felcrag (imp.) from
Climax by Excitement from
Miss Jean by Magpie (imp.).
Dunsinane, winner of the
Caulfield Second Murray Handi-
cap, is raced and was bred by
Sir Chester Manifold, chairman
of the V.R.C. Dunsinane smarted
second-favorite, the elect being
Ebulus, who carries the colors
of the V.R.C.’s vice-chairman,
E. A. Underwood. Medium of
a heavy plunge, Ebulus ran
fifth. Dunsinane is by Angus
(imp.) from Three Course (imp.),
and is a first living foal. Three
Course is by Orthodox from
Merenda by Blandford from
Tiffin by Tetratema. Tiffin, by
the way, was a smart mare ; she
was unbeaten, and won £16,516
in stakes. Merenda was a bril-
liant galloper, and in one of her
Epsom wins ran five furlongs in
55f sec., which is close to the
world’s best.
• • • •
Miss Kath O’Mara, secretary
of the Clarence River Jockey
Club (N.S.W.), has preliminary
arrangements well in hand for the
historic Grafton Cup carnival in
mid-July. The £1250 Cup (£75
trophy) will be run at \\ mile and
100yds. on Thursday, July 15,
with the Ramornie Handicap of
£4OO (6 furlongs) on the preced-
ing day as first leg of the double.
An aggregate of £5617 will be
distributed over the Grafton
round of fixtures in mid-June
and July, and clubs have
arranged liberal allowances for
both winners and losers. Miss
O’Mara, a capable official, is one
of the few women secretaries of a
race-club in Australia.
• ♦ • •
Main Australian interest in
the winning of the English Derby
by 33 to 1 Never Say Die, from
Arabian Night and Darius —it
was worth £17,000 to the colt’s
American owner—is that the
colt is a Nasrullah. The only
Nasrullah sire in this country,
Edwardsii (imp.) is standing at
Sundridge Park Stud, St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.). First progeny of this
new sire were sold at the Rand-
wick yearling sales last Easter,
the breeder declining to accept
some of the offers for the fillies.
It now appears that chances
were missed. Randwick trainer
M. McCarten gave 3000 gns. for
the first of the Edwardsii colts
(a half - brother to Prince
Dakhil), while another, colt rea-
lised 1050 gns. Edwardsii is by
Nasrullah from Cattewater by
Solario. Nasrullah was sold to
Kentucky (U.S.) stud-interests
for £133,000, after topping the
English sires’ list about three
years ago. He is a son of
unbeaten Nearco.
* * *
N.S.W. Rugby League team
beat the Englishmen 22-11 at
Sydney Cricket Ground in a dull
game. Some early doubts now
seem settled—the visitors were
trying, everyone agrees, but
weren’t good enough. Which,
for a touring side, makes them
look pretty poor, because the
N. side were no world-
beaters. A couple of brilliant
individuals on both sides—it
would be strange if there were
not—-but, these apart, more
exciting spectacles have been
witnessed at peak-hour in Pitt-
street. The Chooms, though,
don’t seem to have struck form
yet.
• • • •
The much-publicised (and
diminutive) English centre, Dug-
gie Greenall, skittled burly
N.S.W. centre Harry Wells with
a perfectly legal, but unorthodox,
tackle. At Wollongong he did
the same thing, to the same man,
after a noisy section of the
crowd had practically begged
him to do something of the
sort; he obliged, and the hecklers
didn’t seemed pleased. It’s an
example of the attitude many
League supporters bring to the
game. On Saturday there were
enough stiff-arms and the like to
keep partisans happy.
♦ * *
In Brisbane, the lilywhite
Rugby Unionists also indulged in
punches and stiff-arms, from
which the Australian team
emerged with a 22-19 win over
the Fijians. But the football
intermingled with these goings-
on was crisp, and Murray Tate,
who is a very sound five-eighth
and one who shines, particularly,
when the game is hard, swung
the backline into movement
after movement. For the Fijians
centre George Cavalevu was out-
standing.
• • • •]
In Rugby Union club games
in Sydney Eastwood beat Manly
23-17 (thereby going to the top
of the competition-table), Rand-
wick beat Parramatta 36-12,
Northern Suburbs beat Gordon
22-16, University beat St. George
11-6, and Eastern Suburbs beat
Drummoyne 12-3.
♦ v *
At last things have really
started to warm-up in the
V.F.L.; Saturday’s Carlton-Col-
lingwood clash was the best
affray to date this season. May-
be some uncanny foretaste of
blood produced the 35,000-odd
customers, or maybe their pre-
sence produced the blood. At
any rate it was a snorter, with
’Wood emerging triumphant,
11.15-10.12.
• • • •
It was much the same else-
where ; there’s hardly been any-
thing better in last-quarters than
Essendon’s cutting loose to
overtake and overrun Norths,
14.14-10.15. Geelong downed
Melbourne, 11.5-10.20; Foots-;
cray further obliterated Fitzroy,
13.9-10.14; Hawthorn headed
Souths, 8.10-6.13; Richmond
clawed St. Kilda in a manner
painful to behold, 17.13-10.6,
♦ ♦ ♦
Johnny Wheeler (9.0), from
Melbourne, won a 12-rounds
points-decision over Russell
Sands (9.0) at Leichhardt. Sands
seemed too strong for Wheeler
in the early rounds, but he was
often beaten to the punch later,
and the Victorian’s clean
counters, particularly stinging
straight lefts to the face, piled
up points for him. Wheeler was
also in better condition than
Sands, and his faster finish
earned him a hairline decision,
despite the uproar that greeted it.


the grey mallee shrugging its
shoulders and watching indif-
ferently as we trudged by. Now
and again a yacca-bush sprang
to attention and presented arms
at us with its stiff black spear,
or twisted a long misshapen
neck to give us an inquisitive
sidelong glance; and once a
goanna raised itself up high on
its forelegs with a look of fierce
incredulity in its small bright
eyes. At each ridge, too, the bare
outcrops of limestone shimmered
and gleamed under our feet like
bony ribs —and we like doomed
explorers plodding along over
the fossilised belly of some vast
prehistoric creature dead as the
The blare of a car from behind
woke us at last from our apa-
thetic stumble, and a man drew
up, looking as incredulous as the
goanna. “You look as if you’ve
just got away from stokin’ for
Old Nick,” he said. “Here, have
a drink.”
“Thanks,” said Dad gulping.
“Thanks.”
“That your bus way back
there? I stopped and looked but
couldn’t find anyone round.”
“That’s ours,” said Dad. “At
least, until I can get it back to
Bert Watson.”
“Bad luck,” said the man.
“New job like that; she’s out of
oil—all seized up.”
Dad gave the man a queer
sort of look. “Out of oil?
“Sure! Dry as hell; not a
drop in the sump! Here, hop in
and I’ll give you a lift.”
For a while Dad sat in silence
while our benefactor ran on and
on. I could see that he was think-
ing hard.
“Your car,” he said to the man
at last. “She runs well, consider-
ing the heat.”
“Never better.” . 5)
“I s’pose you drained the oil,’
Dad said tentatively, “when she
was new?”
“Drain her every thousand,
regular! Don’t do it meself, o
course; just drop her in at the
lubritorium.”
“Huh!” said Dad. “Sounds
like a blackfellows’ camp!”
“You’ve got to watch ’em,
though,” the man said, “Like as
not they’ll ruin your car. I
know a chap —took his bus in
last month. They drained his oil
alright; but they forgot to till
her up again.”
Dad’s eyes had a faraway
look. “Fancy that,” he said.
“Forgot to fill her up again.”
“Sure! And when the chap
drove off —bingo! Ten to one
that’s what happened to yours
Dad looked even farther off
across the drab sea of mallee
billowing past the windows.
“Yeah! Ten to one,” he said.
When we got into Gonunda
the man dropped us outside
Watson’s garage. “If he’s your
agent,” he said, “it’s up to him to
help you tow her in. Go in and
put on a turn,”
t-|AD went in; there was no
question about that. And 1
hung on behind, fidgetting. As
we came through the door Wat-
son walked out of the workshop,
stripped to the waist. He caught
sight of Dad, stopped for a
second, and let out a guffaw that
rattled the spare parts on the
rac ks
“Good God!” he said. “Stasi-
noski! Where the hell you bin!
Takin’ an oil bath?”
He roared again and came
nearer: »
“Anyway, it’s good for the
complexion.”
I watched Dad’s fists and it
was awful to see them. They
were opening and closing slowly,
swelling up in my eyes like the
hood of an angry king cobra;
but how was Watson to know
Dad as I did?
“Anyway, what the devil have
you been up to?” he said. Been
trying to drain your own sump?
Dad walked right up to him
then, the clotted strings of his
hair twisted and spiked like the
snakes on Medu a’s head.
“Yeah,” he said slowly, “I
drained the sump all right.”
Then suddenly he grabbed
Watson by a handful of his hairy
belly, jerked him forward, and
yelled straight in his face.
“And if you only had a hot
oil-plug where your bloody navel
is, I’d damn well drain you, too.”
And so it came about that
Dad’s name went down in
history.
“O.K. Speed up as much as
you can.”
“Here? In the main street?”
“Turn out of it.”
The big sedan is maybe fifty
yards behind. The traffic on the
main street isn’t enough to put
it out of its stride. Comes to
speeding that big car could leave
Mellish’s bus for dead, Mellish
turns a corner and we’re in a
long, straight street with trees
and lights every couple of chains.
“All right,” 1 says. “Speed
her up.”
The lights of the big sedan
swing round the corner behind
us and Mellish gets up what he
calls speed. Not what I call
speed, but it causes the big
sedan to speed, too, and that’s
what I want.
“Now,” I says, “whip into
the kerb and stop quick. Soon’s
we stop you hop out, Mr. Mel-
lish, and change with me.”
The old boy gives a funny
sort of yelp and does what I say.
He jerks the car to a stop and
the Willets car rushes up and
past before they wake up. As
Mellish hops out and I pass him
I see his old face. It’s alive and
his eyes shining and his teeth
showing where his lips are
drawm back.
I’m under the wheel, in re-
verse, back and around before
the big sedan up ahead comes to
a stop.
“Now,” I yell, “we’ll see some
driving.”
I go back to the main street
and turn into it at forty and go
a block to the right and swing
left into a side street. Whoever
is driving the sedan is pretty
good, too. Because he’s back
in the main street quick enough
to sight us turning out of it.
Drivers back in the main
street must of got a hell of a
fright.
I get Mellish’s car up to fifty-
three, make another turn and go
like a bat out of hell. The turn
flings Joyce on to me.
“Hang on, kid!”
The big sedan’s lights cut a
circle behind just as I whip
round another corner and I hit
the accelerator hard as I can.
Then our lights pick up what
I’m looking for —an open drive-
way into a house. I hit the brake
hard, the tyres scream, I kill the
lights and pull the car into the
drive and stop.
“Sit tight,’*’ I tell them.
The big sedan whooshes by
and races up the street.
“Shut the drive gates,” I howl,
and I’m out and got the gates
shut before the others get it.
In the house the drive belongs
to a light snaps on and a man
comes out and stands on the
porch looking at. us.
“Use your weight, hombre,”
I tell Mitchell. “Tell him to get
back inside and put out that
light and mind his business.”
Mitchell gapes at me.
“Show him your brief,
revenue-man,” I snap. “Bluff
him Get him off that porch
and the light out before that
sedan comes back.”
His mouth shuts. He turns
and makes for the porch, where
the man is calling out. We
watch Mitchell show him the
brief and talk and wave his arms
about. The man looks across at
us, then backs into the doorway
and shuts it and the light snaps
off. He’ll have something to
talk about for the next six
months.
Mitchell comes back across
the lawn.
“Get in the car and keep still.
They’re coming back,” I tell
them.
They get in the car. I go down
behind the gates. The big sedan
comes cruising back. It goes
past and on to the intersection.
Then it backs, swings and
cruises back again. Fifty yards
away it stops, with the lights on
and the engine running. I can
guess what they’re maybe say-
ing to one another. About a
minute goes by, then they start
again and I watch them go way
up the street, cross a couple of
intersections and turn away to
the right.
I open the gate and go back
to the car.
“We got maybe ten minutes
to get out of here and to your
place, Mr. Mellish,” I tell them.
“Because they’ll cruise round
for maybe that long and then
they’ll wake up how we dodged
’em and come racing back
here.”
I’m under the wheel again
and backing his car out to the
street.
“Which way?” I ask. *
He tells me and 1 hit her up.
I leave the lights off, because I
don’t want Olnec and whoever
is with him to spot headlights
swinging in the night.
“Who do you suppose they
are, Delaney?” Mitchell jasks.
“The bird that owns the gun
fired that bullet into Carson,
I says. “Maybe some more.
You’ll hear all about it soon.”
“Bullet? Mr. Carson?” Joyce
says.
“That’s right,” I tell her. We
got our sights on him now. We
also got Lay Down Misere
Mitchell, in case you don’t know
it. That’s the hombre in the
back with Mr. Mellish.”
“Turn left here, Delaney,”
says Mellish. “Cross the first
street and turn right into the
next,”
Joyce is turned round, look-
ing back at Mitchell. He gives
it to her in short, quick words.
He’s still talking when Mellish
stops me at a gate, hops out,
opens it and I send the car along
a drive to a garage in back of
an old-time bungalow with
lawns and shrubs all round it.
Mellish leads the others to the
house. I go to the gate and watch
the street a minute or so. All I
see is a passenger-bus going by
and a boy on a bike holding on
to the bus with one hand and
getting himself towed. I go to
the house. Mellish waits at the
door for me.
Some women have a team
drop in on them like that they
go into a flat spin. Not Mrs.
Mellish. She’s small and thin
and calm and she looks us over
and says, “Wouldn’t it be more
comfortable in the kitchen?’
So we go in the kitchen and
she and Joyce get busy. Mel-
lish knocks the tops off a couple
of bottles of beer and we three
bucks sit there and sharpen our-
selves with the beer. In five
minutes I’m chomping my way
through a plate piled with cold
meat and salad. Mitchell and
Mellish doing the same. We’re
too busy to talk. The women
got cups of coffee and nattering
about nothing special.
It’s maybe half an hour after
we finish eating that I finish
telling them about the Willets
set-up. All the way I tell them,
from the minute I got the idea
about Allendale to when I walk
into Mellish’s office and identify
Mitchell. All the way I tell
them—except the bit about
Lorraine. I don’t tell them that
because the way it turned out
Lorraine don’t matter. There
was plenty of questions while I
was talking, and some after I
finish. Then we have to tell
Joyce about Carson and the
bullet Mitchell found and the
gun I know about. She’s upset
about it. All the time she had
an idea Carson was no accident,
but it still upsets her when
Mitchell brings out the proof.
“Can I use your phone?”
Mitchell asks.
Mellish says “You’ll see it,
through that door.”
Mitchell stands up.
“Just a minute!” I says.
“What’s doing?”
“If my guess is right,”
Mitchell says, “they talked
about you and everything after
you left. It’s pretty clear, from
what you said, that this Mrs.
Amber and Olnec and Mac Ross
pretty well run the show. All
right, the way you put it only
Mrs. Amber of the three of
them believed you were in the
racket as Carson’s partner. The
other two obviously had their
doubts, particularly Olnec. My
guess is they got talking after
you left and, just to be on the
safe side, they’d start pulling
that still to pieces and get what-
ever rum is there out of the way.
Isn’t that what we’d do if we
were them and had our doubts
about Delaney? Especially after
you’d fired that into Mrs. Amber
about somebody named
Mitchell?”
“It’s a good guess,” I got to
admit.
“Well, I’m calling the police
in now. They don’t know about
me yet. They will in a couple
of minutes. And right after
that there’ll be a bunch of them
going through that mill. You
got any objections to that,
Delaney?”
“Fat lot of good my objec-
tions would be,” I tell him.
“But don’t forget that Olnec.
He’s got the gun killed Carson
and we got to get him and the
gun. You go barging out there
with a herd of police and you
blow the thing wide open and
he stashes the gun, what we got
then? A bunch of rum-runners,
that’s all. Because we can’t
prove a damned thing without
that gun. And there’s something
else you forgot. Olnec isn’t out
there. He’s right here in
Murrayford, driving that big
black sedan and trying to locate
me. You’re a good guesser,
looks like, suppose you guess
why Olnec is looking for me.”
Mellish says, “Delaney, there
is no doubt in the world that
this is now a matter fbr the
police and they should be called
at once.”
“Maybe you could guess why
Olnet is looking for me,” I tell
“You seem to be obsessed
with Olnec,” Mellish answers.
“You have a gink put a gun
on you twice in one night and
each time you was lucky he
didn’t shoot,” I says, “you’d be
obsessed about him, too.”
“Indubitably. But”
“But nothing!” I come off
my chair and I guess I’m yelling.
Because Mellish and Mitchell
can gum-up the show, way I
566 it.
Mrs. Mellish stands against
the sink, looking at me over her
cup of coffee. Mellish stays in
his chair. Mitchell goes back a
pace, staring at me because I’m
yelling. Joyce stands beside
Mrs. Mellish, and her eyes are
big and her face white,
I lean over the table and
shove my face out at Mellish
and thump the table with one
fist.
“You got to play it my way,
I scream at him. “We got to get
that gun from Olnec before we
do a thing. Because, as sure as
God made little apples Olnec
shot Carson and that ties up
with Jardine. For me Jardine
is number-one priority in this
game. It’s me they got Jardine
pinned on. Not Carson. You
got to see it! We got to get
that gun and we got to get
Olnec. I”
“My duty is the illicit liquor,”
Mitchell says.
I grab him by the front of
his coat and shove him back
against the wall and hold him
there. He’s taller than me, but
I hold him there. Because I went
through plenty out at that
Amber woman’s place. I went
through plenty and I could have
got myself a couple of bullets.
1 was lucky enough to get clear
of them and 1 had a line on
Carson and it leads to Jardme.
I’m dead certain now Olaec
shot Carson and I’m betting that
if we get Olnec and the gun we
can break a way through to Jar-
dine and show that McLardie
where he’s wrong. And for me
getting clear on Jardine is way
ahead of pinning Carson on
Olnec or busting-up the rum-
"running. So I’m not letting this
Mitchell loose to go roaring
through the night with police-
cars and give Olnec a chance to
stash the gun.
“Yon and your duty,” I yell
in Mitchell’s face. “You started
this thing with your phony
undertaker and lay-down-misere
stuff and all the rest of it. You
sure started something. It got
me pinched for murder, that’s
what it did. I tell you the only
chance I got is to get Olnec and
that gun, and like hell I’ll let you
go out there and spoil it.”
We’re glaring at each other,
and then Mellish comes and puts
his hands on my shoulders. He
just puts them there. He don’t
try to pull me off Mitchell.
“Delaney,” he says, real cool,
“This is no good. You must
control yourself. Mr. Mitchell,
will you wait half a minute?
Just half a minute, if you
please?”
Mitchell looks beyond me at
Mellish. Then the resistance
goes out of him.
“All right,” he says. “Take
your hands off me, Delaney.”
I let him go and step back. I
keep an eye on him and turn
to Mellish.
“Look, Mr. Mellish”
“Delaney, you are about the
most exasperating person we’ve
met. The situation calls for
thought, not violence. Now, let
us consider. First, what do you
want Mr. Mitchell to do?”
“Give me time to go out and
find Olnec!”
“What!”
“They’ll still be looking for
me. They’ve had time to think,
I reckon they’ve telephoned all
the hotels and found out I stayed
at the Central. They’ll watch
it, they’ll watch the police-
station, they’ll watch the Grand.
For her they’ll watch the
Grand.” I nod at Joyce, where
she’s looking at us. “And
they’ll be watching for your car,
Mr. Mellish. Because they don’t
know yet whether I’m with you
or not. So they’ll be watching.
If I take your car and cruise
around it’s guineas to goose-
berries I’ll' have that sedan on
my tail in no time. Then”
“No! No! You mustn’t!
Don’t let him, Mr. Mellish!”
It’s Joyce. She’s run across
the room and pleading with Mel-
lish.
“My dear,” he says, ■'“he’ll
do nothing of the sort. Do you
hear, Delaney? We’ll have no
part in what is nothing else but
criminal foolishness. We know
those people are lawbreakers;
we believe there is a murderer
among them. Therefore, it is no
longer a matter for us to handle
by ourselves. You must see
that, Delaney! You had better
see it, for we intend to call the
police without further”
A telephone starts ringing. It
shuts him up and makes me
jump. Everybody looks at
everybody else.
{To be concluded next week)
PRAYING MANTIS
O yogi, mantis, preying leaf
and subtle balance of this green,
within your eye the rolling world
is centred where the nervous fly
drinks the dew’s one point of
light—
O double meaning of your prayer.
And you, equation of the green,
as tense as thought, can link a
world
where you are leaf and leaf is
you
until you’ve trapped the careless
fly
within the logic of your spell—
And then land only then can
leaves t
distinguish what this green can t
tell.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


T*uth iu llic
iiJlfis
Development is the key word for Australia now.
We’ve to press on with the job of making this country
what it ought to be. The world expects it of us, and
we owe it to ourselves.
You can sense the urge to get things done in
all that is passing around us. It isn’t that ordinary
hope which Man experiences as part of his daily being.
Reality is coming up with us, and here is where our
Faith in Australia will stand the test.
Let us see what we have here, on which to base
that Faith. In a continent of 2,975,000 square miles,
nine per cent. (270,000 square miles) has been classed
as climatically suited for agriculture and intensive stock
raising ; 15 per cent. (445,000 square miles) is similarly
suitable in certain seasons of the year; 42 per cent.
(1,250,000 square miles) is arid pasture for intensive
sheep and cattle raising, but not crop land ; and the
remaining 34 per cent. (1,000,000 square miles) is
mainly desert and uninhabitable.
These estimates were made on our knowledge
up to the past two years before the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
presented such amazing results on what can be done
with raising the productivity of land by the addition
of trace elements to overcome deficiencies in the soil;
for example what the A.M.P. is doing in South
Australia The experiments are going on, but enough
has been established to make Australia revise all its
calculations. And all our thinking must be up-graded
in proportion.
• With these scientific advances, and the conserva-
tion of water, there is no saying how much more land
will be available for intensive use in all seasons of the
year. It should be very much more than the percentage
now put in the high-rainfall bracket.
Water is the inner key. It penetrates even deeper
into the national economy than mineral improvements
to the soil. It touches not only that one-fourth of the
continental area which is more favoured by the
seasons; it governs the potential of the million and a
quarter acres to which we look for beef and wool.
Give the enormous productive areas of the inland
the means of conserving water and improving pastures,
give ‘them the transport—and Australia’s future is
limitless.
I
/?. /VajT&yt&s. r
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
gh
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDO CHINA COMMENT
Comments on a minor incident
related to the wanglings at
Geneva over Indo-China bring
the issues into a much clearer
perspective than the reams of
argument and speculation that
have been written about it.
The incident apparently sprang
from a spate of praise in several
British papers for Mr. Eden’s
patient diplomacy at Geneva.
An exception was “Punch,”
which published a Norman
Mansbridge drawing of Mr.
Eden in the lineaments and
attitude of Mr. Chamberlain
after Munich. And, as is
customary with “Punch”
cartoons, there was no doubt
about its intention.
The cartoon brought objec-
tions from several quarters, the
strongest probably being from
James Cameron, a “News
Chronicle” columnist, who
remarked that “it is now the
blue-blood, arch-Tory ‘Punch’
that turns venomously on Eden,
with as nasty a malice as has
been seen for years, depicting
him cruelly as a Muniqji-man—
an attitude as peculiar as the
analogy is false.”
Cameron’s criticism in turn
brought the editor of “Punch,”
Malcolm Muggeridge, into the
columns of .the “News
Chronicle,” where he stated his
case as follows;
“The purpose of the cartoon
was to suggest that Mr. Eden
at Geneva is falling into the very
same error as Chamberlain at
Munich ; that he, too, is working
on the assumption that aggres-
sion can be turned aside by
reasoned negotiation. Unfor-
tunately it cannot.
“While the talks are going on
in Geneva a massive attack is
being mounted on Hanoi and
the Red River delta. In pre-
cisely the same way, as we now
know, while Chamberlain was
getting Hitler to sign a ludicrous
declaration of pacific intentions,
plans had already been made for
taking over the whole of
Czechoslovakia.
“As Poland came after Czecho-
slovakia, so, assuredly, after
Indo-China will come Siam, and
then Burma, Malaya and, in due
course, India. The parallel is
exact, even though, in each case,
aggression will easily be able to
masquerade as a ‘Resistance
Movement’ which aims at
‘Liberatiftn’ and the setting up
of a ‘People’s Government.’
“At some point this tide of
aggression will have to be
checked by force or it will sub-
merge the whole of Asia. Mr.
Nehru’s position of ‘moral
leadership’ will not suffice to
withstand it. As we have seen,
his status among ‘free’ Asians
notably failed to save Tibet
from being overrun by the
Chinese Communists.
“Nor has the fact that British
rule was voluntarily relinquished
in India mitigated the activities
of Chinese terrorists in Malaya.
“While Mr. Eden chats
amiably with Chou En-lai in
Geneva, arms from China con-
tinue to pass across the Siamese
frontier to be used in murderous
attacks on Mr, Eden’s country-
men and such friends as they
still have among the Malays and
Malayan Chinese.
“It may well be that defending
Indo-China is not strategically
sound, just as there are those
who still contend that, militarily,
Chamberlain was right to let
Czechoslovakia go.
“The fault of Chamberlain,
however, was not in sacrificing
Czechoslovakia, but in believing
that Nazi aggression, and Hitler’s
long record of perfidy, would
thenceforth come to an end.
“It was Chamberlain’s sin-
cerity, not his villainy, which
led him astray. His crime was
to make a fool of himself, and
therefore of us, Mr, Eden, it
seems to me, is in an identical
case.
“It is a strange and ironical
circumstance of this strange time
that the same pattern of events
should thus reproduce itself after
so short an interval,
“How, I ask myself, can
anyone fail to recognise a
ghastly and tragic parallelism
between Chamberlain’s trans-
actions with Hitler and
Mussolini and Mr. Eden’s with
Mr. Molotov and Chou En-lai,
protracted, as they are being, to
allow time for Indo-China to be
absorbed into the Communist
power-system, for the regime in
France to sink into its final
decrepitude, and for the wedge
which Soviet diplomacy has
inserted so assiduously and
cunningly between Britain and
the United States to be driven
in yet more deeply?”
On the same day that Mug-
geridge’s comment appeared in
the “News Chronicle,” London
“Economist” entered the lists on
Mr. Eden’s behalf;
“The Foreign Secretary is
trying to stop a war that has
already gone on for seven years ;
he is not trying at any cost to
prevent a war breaking out. He
faces in Chou En-lai a statesman
both ruthless and shrewd, whose
troops have already been chal-
lenged and held on the Korean
battlefield, not a man who has
been twice or thrice appeased
already. He is not trying to
surrender a democratic State, but
to arrange a cease-fire around
which some fragments of a poli-
tical settlement might crystallise.
“And if the Foreign Secretary
finds himself alone in using the
conference to seek bases of agree-
ment and to exercise patience and
restraint, then he can console
himself with this thought: if his
efforts fail, then public opinion
in the free world —in Asia as
well as in the countries of the
Atlantic Alliance will rally
With greater Confidence and an
easier conscience behind what-
ever measures will be necessary
to resist the violent pretensions
of revolutionary China and the
Vietminh.
“It is now clear that this had
to be done, not only in Britain,
but also in the United States,
before the threat of intervention
could be either sincere or effec-
tive. Gradually, after the con-
fusion and recrimination [over
Geneva], a clear moral basis for
Western policy in South-East
Asia is beginning to form.
“The Communist delegates are
N.Y. "Herald Tribune.”
“GUESS WE’LL JUST HAVE TO TIRE HIM FIRST”
being given time and opportunity
to show just how unreasonable
they can be; the genuine desire
of the Indo-Chinese to be free
of France is being sharply dis-
tinguished from the Communist
hope of controlling them when
they become free; the world is
watching Ho Chi-Minh’s troops
exploiting success and advancing
on Hanoi while his delegates
haggle in Geneva. People who
have been impatient and angry—
often with good reason—at
French policy towards Vietnam,
Laos and Cambodia are now
learning how difficult it is to
make concessions under the
greedy pressure of Communist
tactics.
“Critics in Britain are begin-
ning to see what role force may
yet have to play in the pacifica-
tion of Indo-China. In brief,
people are being prepared for
the kind of commitment they
would not [recently] have
considered.
“All this and more is being
gained by negotiation. Indeed, it
may be that forty-eight hours of
silence on Indo-China by the
State Department, together with
Sir Winston Churchill’s guarded
but emphatic assurance that he
will ‘examine the possibility of
establishing a system of collec-
tive security in South-East Asia
and the Western Pacific within
the framework of the United
Nations’ as soon as ‘the outcome
of the Geneva conference is
clearer’ may have more effect on
the Communists than an explicit
warning that would divide
American, British and French
public opinion and start another
furious public debate.”
After admitting the danger
of Washington and London hav-
ing no plan for the contingency
of Vietnam being overrun while
there is haggling at Geneva, and
France then being asked to
choose quickly between appease-
ment and the kind of extempore
action that Mr. Dulles and
Admiral Radford had in mind,
the “Economist” concludes: -
“Two deductions are clear,
but they will not be popular.
One is that the five-Power staff
talks should be quickly started,
and conducted with realism,
urgency and the utmost secrecy.
If such a thing is possible in
Washington, there should be no
‘leakages.’ It is useless to
postpone military planning until
a defence organisation can be
created.
“The other deduction is that
Mr. Eden should make it clear
that he will not persist indefi-
nitely in his personal effort to
mediate. If he sees no prospect
of success within a reasonable
time he should follow Mr.
Dulles’s example and return
home; for he will be needed
to explain to the public the grave
issues that are coming up and, as
the Prime Minister said, ‘to put
his own proportion’ on events at
Geneva.
“Having shown great patience
he has won the power to achieve
something by showing
impatience. In his present course
he is taking risks with Anglo-
American understanding that can
be justified only if he can bring
a truce nearer. At the point
where those risks are no longer
balanced by a genuine hope of
Communist concessions, it is
time for the Foreign Secretary
to face the House of Commons
and to tell the world where vital


Will America have a
depression?
Pessimists claim she’s riding
a stale boom, industry’s geared
to make more goods than she
can use, her prosperity was
war-created.
In June Reader’s Digest, a
noted analyst weighs the prob-
abilities, shows evidence is
overwhelmingly against a
major depression in the fore-
seeable future.
Also in June Reader’s Digest
—3l other stimulating articles
including A. J. Cronin's
“How to Stop Worrying,” Dr.
A. Stone’s "The Case Against
Marital Infidelity,” “The Facts
About I.Q. Tests.” Plus a 19-
page book condensation of
“The Saga of General Billy
Mitchell.”
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get yours today.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
fgh
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick*
CM-
V*
IM
sit*"-
fV.O'l*
boh*
***
V***
65%
4
(M*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Writ. to DAVIS GELATIN!) S.PO !m 1583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4051. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 768 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK &. STATION AGENTS
THE GOOD
COMPANIONS
A COMPLETE RANGE
OF AUTOMOTIVE
OILS AND GREASES
, ~ equally suitable
for new and old
engines.
m
ft
BM
CQfl
Mor
Oil
2»fiS
80VCS
W//
For top-up or oil change
choose ENERGOL, ‘The Good Companion’
of C.O.R MOTOR SPIRIT at . . .
IN9EPENQSIST
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIE
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-1 ranian^Oil^Co^UdQ^^
S LTD.
__C;7176662,
British interests in South-East
Asia begin and end, and what
must be done in company with
other nations to defend them.”
"Lifeline of Empire"
On the return of the Queen
and the Duke of Edinburgh,
London “Observer” ran an edi-
torial eye over the and
variety” of the relationships
within the British Common-
wealth. It noted what has been
noted before, but noted it rather
more clearly than is usual in the
British Press:
“In New Zealand and Aus-
tralia the warmth of their greet-
ings to the Queen showed once
again how strongly they feel
their attachment to Britain. But
no amount of loyalty could
conceal from them their primary
dependence on the United States
for their defence.
“Ever since 1942 these Pacific
countries have known that in any
major war they cannot rely
chiefly on Britain to defend them,
since changes in the nature of
war have largely robbed Britain
of her island immunity and
compel her henceforth to reserve
most of her strength for defend-
ing herself. Indeed, that is what
the Commonwealth countries ask
of us, and there has never been
any truth in the idea that it is
they who deter us from under-
taking binding defence commit-
ments in Europe.
“Australia can never forget
her need for protection. The vast
underdeveloped continent is an
almost empty space on the edge
of Asia, with its overwhelming
blunt fact is that the South-West
blunt fact is that the South-west
Pacific is strategically beyond our
[Britain’s] range of major opera-
tions, and only America is able
to defend it.
“The loyalty of Australia and
New Zealand may remind us
that the Commonwealth today
depends for its existence on a
special bond between America
and Britain. If there, were a
deep Anglo-American rift on
foreign policy it is no more
certain that these countries would
follow Britain than that Canada
would. In the mid-20th century
one lifeline of Empire runs
through Washington.”
Germany and E.D.C.
The main reason for the pro-
tracted course of the European
Defence Community has been
French reluctance to join it for
fear of domination by Germany.
Now, wearying of the delay,
Germany itself is taking what
several British papers describe
as a sceptical or indifferent atti-
tude.
Typical of the British com-
ment, a “Manchester Guardian”
correspondent notes that the
Germans are casting around for
an alternative to E.D.C., which
“seems to be the obvious span-
ner in the European works”:
“Such influential newspapers
as ‘Die Welt’ and ‘Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung’ have de-
manded the tabling of an alterna-
tive proposal to the European
Army.
v “ ‘Die Welt’ asks in a leading
article, for a reorientation of
German thinking in the realms
of foreign policy. It writes:
“ ‘To-day it has become poli-
tically, if not militarily, unim-
portant if and when E.D.C. is
brought into being. It is no
longer a vital question for the
German people if and when the
Bonn agreement is imple-
mented.’
“ ‘Die Welt’s’ first conclusion
is that the German Government
should give up trying to cham-
pion the European cause, since
this only arouses French hos-
tility. Germany should pay more
attention instead to her own in-
terests in every part of the worlcj
and work to achieve her own re-
unification, She should con-
sider ‘whether England may not
be a better partner than France.’
“The spokesman of the
‘Frankfurter Allgemeine,’ Herr
Adalbert Weinstein, hitherto a
protagonist of E.D.C., now
writes that it is no use waiting
indefinitely for the European
Army—‘an alternative proposal
must not merely be put forward.
It must be speedily realised,’
Otherwise, Herr Weinstein
thinks, all discussion of German
rearmament should end —‘The
fear seems to be justified that the
expectation of a European Army
is becoming a political and mili-
tary fiasco.’
“Herr Weinstein’s main com-
plaint is that the long delay in
the E.D.C. negotiations has seri-
ously discouraged all idealists
who wanted Germany to con-
tribute to the common cause.
Many of these idealists joined the
shadow Defence Ministry of
Herr Blank and worked fever-
ishly in order to produce plans
for the new Germany armed
forces in the European Army.
“The officials of the Defence
Office have been virtually unem-
ployed for the last year. Some
of them have left and others
will follow. The generals and
experts, hand-picked by Herr
Blank and his advisers, are get-
ting no younger. Many of them
are not content to wait indefi-
itely for Government employ-
ment and are drifting into indus-
try or even embarking on Par-
liamentary careers.”
Also noting the lack of Ger-
man enthusiasm for E.D.C., a
London “Daily Telegraph” cor-
respondent observes that “there
is no national clamor in Ger-
many for any form of rearma-
ment. The majority which voted
for the Chancellor, Dr. Ade-
nauer, at the September elections
endorsed his successful economic
policy and his co-operation with
the Western Powers, and were
content to let him have his own
way on E.D.C.
“The astonishing economic re-
covery since 1950 might have
been expected to encourage self-
assertiveness and the military
spirit. In the circumstances the
increase in support for rearma-
ment is not large.
“The explanation is that all
classes in Germany are absorbed
with the performance and the
enjoyment of the ‘economic
miracle’ of recovery. After the
disasters of Hitlerism and the
•post-war struggle for bare sur-
vival Germany has become very
stony ground for ideals of any
kind, good or bad. The present
phase is probably the most un-
ashamedly and brutally material-
istic in German history.
“The working-man wants to
enjoy the return of stable con-
ditions and to acquire the
amenities that hard work can
earn. The refugee, who is one
in four of the population, wants
to get a home together again.
The businessman thinks of little
at the moment beyond holding
his own in the fierce competition
of unbridled free enterprise, and
of enjoying the material rewards
of success.
“These are real things which
the individual can influence
himself by his exertions, and
the Federal Republic can
direct by its sovereign control
of its internal affairs. By
contrast; world affairs, the cold
war and defence seem matters
which are decided by others.
“America and Britain have got
themselves into this mess, says
the German ; it is for them to get
out of it. In this frame of mind
the German can argue that if the
West cannot make up its mind
whether it wants a German Army
there is nothing that Germany
can do. Twelve German divisions
will not make any difference if
the Russians should decide to
attack with 300. In any case, it
will be two years before these 12
divisions are ready.”
To which comment, London
“Economist” adds ;
“What is alarming at the
present juncture is the feeling in
Bonn that the best moment for
setting Germany’s new course
has already passed. French
obstruction has robbed the idea
of ‘Europe’ of much of its appeal
to Germans. It is also true that
many Germans have paid lip-
service to the aspirations of
E.D.C. on the simple nationalist
calculation that Germany must
have an Army if it is to make
its influence felt in the world.
But when all this—and worse—
has been said, the fact remains
that there has been in Germany
a genuine wish to make a fresh
start in co-operation with
France. Certainly those young
Germans who have any idealism
left at all have sought to satisfy
it through the idea of ‘Europe’
and not through a return to
militarism.
“Now it is the cynics and the
nationalists that are in the
ascendant. They are saying that
the Chancellor has made
sacrifices to no purpose, and that
Germany should now develop
an independent policy.
“The reformists, who saw ; n
E.D.C. a way of cutting clear
from the bad aspects of Prussian
militarism and of protecting the
young republic against the pro-
fessional staff-officer, are now
depressed. Their chances of
success seem to be dwindling
daily. Indeed, the present
danger is tha| the whole Euro-
pean policy of Dr. Adenauer
may be written-off by Germans
as a failure if France delays its
decision longer.”
Meanwhile, the “Economist”
continues, “ Mr. Molotov, both
in public and in private, both in
Geneva and in Paris, is strain-
ing every nerve to obstruct and
if possible wreck the fulfilment
of the Atlantic policy for
Europe. If he is allowed to
succeed, what is to be put in its
place?
“Where is the plan that would
at one and the same time link
France and Germany, prevent
the Germans from dragging the
world into war for the lost
territories, and give the Allies
the right to intervene in defence
of German democratic institu-
tions? Nothing less would
command the support of
American and British public
opinion or justify the sweeping
guarantees given to France.
“If no responsible French
statesman has such a project,
then the initiative must pass to
London and Washington, where,
so far, all discussion of alterna-
tives to E.D.C. has been loyally
and wisely suppressed. The task
will be undertaken only with the
greatest reluctance, and there is
little reason to believe that the
conceivable alternatives would
be more favorably received in
France than the E.D.C. treaty
itself.”
Various Voices
Sir Roger Makins (British
Ambassador to the U.S.): “You
cannot expect to win at the
conference-table what you have
not won, and are not prepared
to win, by force of arms. But,
equally, a willingness to
negotiate does not imply an
intention to give way, to sur-
render an essential interest —to
lose one’s shirt, if you like,”
H. Graham White (president
of Britain’s Liberal party ); “We
must face the fact that there is
no defence against the H-bomb
except to make sure that it is
not used. If two countries who
possess atomic weapons go to
war the result will be that neither
side*can win. Both sides must
face tremendous destruction, and
we can assume that fear of
annihilation may be a real
deterrent.”
President Eisenhower: “Either
the nations will build a co-
operative peace or, one by one,
they will be forced to accept an
imposed peace, now sought by
the Communist Powers as it was
by Hitler.”
U.S. Secretary of State John
Foster Dulles: “Peace is always
easy to achieve —by surrender.
Unity is also easy to achieve —
by surrender. The hard task, the
task that confronts us, is to
combine peace and unity with
freedom.”
Mr. Halford Reddish (chair-
man of the Rugby Portland
Cement Co., England): “The
fact is—though no politician
likes to admit it publicly—that
we [Great Britain] have in the
Welfare State and the social
services a burden beyond our
present capacity and one which
will increase rapidly every year.
Politics are becoming more and
more a matter for the mass-
bribery of what is to a great
extent an economically illiterate
electorate.”


Keith Smith as ...
m
ffl SS as
- m .
Q
V
■
mm
mm
■<■ ■■
4 ,4
■mm l
v. . . ‘
SaM
jp
Your eyes will be
wet , . . you’ll smile
a little, too, when
you hear the children
of Australia speak
in this refreshingly
different radio pro-
gramme ... an
engaging half hour
feature for all the
family.
FRIDAYS AT
7 p.m.
Presented by the manufacturers of Scott's Emulsion,
2GB - SAW - SDN - 6IX
2NX 2NM 2WL 2LF 2MW 3CV 6WB 6MD 6BY
X MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
/
ftuiuuimm
ight up one of these superb English cigarettes of
pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smoothness of that
pure Virginia tobacco—and you will have formed a lasting
preference for Rothmans De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in
the most distinguished homes and clubs,
Rothmans De Luxe have for so
long been accepted as England’s
luxury cigarette. *
VIRGINIA
V
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
In aluminium containers
HI for 20
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
a •
“ e lll
%sr
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem by Oscar Walters,
“A Road In France.” —5821.
To buy copy of The Flora oi Vic-
toria by A. J. Ewart; also all volumes
before 1953 of “Australian Journal of
Agricultural Science.” —5824.
To buy back-numbers of English
monthly “Men Only,” from January,
1952, onwards; or earlier, if possible.
—5825.
Gent, Sydney, wants small self-
contained flat or flatette, furnished,
near city.—s6lB.
Business lady, Sydney, wants small
flatette, or bed-sitting room with
cooking conveniences,—sBl9.
Typiste, Sydney, own machine,
wants typing work; used to handling
authors’ manuscripts.—sB2o.
Words of poem “The Shooting of
Dan McGrew” by Robert W. Service.
—5814.
To buy copy of booklet Chris
Brennan by A. G. Stephens.—sBl7.
To buy copy of Newcastle Packets
by J. H. M. Abbott.—sBl6.
Australian family, four adults, two
children, would like to rent furnished
or unfurnished cottage in Sydney.—
5815.
To buy, copy of 70th Anniversary
Number of The Bulletin (February
1, 1950). —5826.
Information Sought
By whom was Malta held before
the British gained possession of the
island ?
Malta was held in turn by Phoeni-
cians, Greeks, Carthaginians and
Romans, and was conquered by the
Arabs in 8701 From 1090 Malta was
joined to Sicily until 1530, when it
was handed over to the Knights of
St. John, who ruled it until dispersed
by Napoleon in 1798. The Maltese
rose in rebellion against the French,
and the island was subsequently
blockaded by the British Fleet, aided
by the Maltese, from 1798 to 1800.
With the free will of the Maltese it
was fully annexed to the British
Crown by the Treaty of Paris in 1814.
♦ * * ♦
Details of the case of U.S. Professor
Owen ' Baltimore ? Results of the
Ty dings committee’s investigations
into his case, and when he was in-
dicted by a grand jury ?
In 1950 Lattimore, a professor at
the Johns Hopkins University, was
accused by Senator McCarthy of be-
ing the “architect of America’s suici-
dal Far Eastern policy” and of being
a “top Soviet agent.” A Senate
Foreign Relations subcommittee,
headed by Senator Millard Tydings,
of Maryland, was appointed to investi-
gate the charges. The Democratic
majority on the subcommittee cleared
Lattimore unconditionally, though
the Republicans to a man refused to
accept the verdict. (Lattimore then
published Ordeal by Slander, in which
he attacked McCarthy and his other
accusers.) Early in 1951 the Senate
Internal Security subcommittee re-
opened the case as part of its overall
inquiry into the Institute of Pacific
Relations, the research-group of which
Lattimore had been prominently asso-
ciated with. This subcommittee’s
report characterised the I.P.R. as a
Communist front and Lattimore as
“a conscious, articulate instrument of
the Soviet conspiracy.” Facts against
Lattimore included meetings with
Soviet Ambassador to U.S.A. Con-
stantin Oumansky in 1941, during the
Hitler-Stalin alliance; a trip he made
into the territory of the Chinese Com-
munists in 1937; and his printing of
Communist writers in the LP.R.’s
magazine “Pacific Affairs” when he
was its editor. In Dec., 1952, after
33 months of charge and counter-
charge, Lattimore was indicted by a
Washington grand jury on seven
counts of perjury. On May 12, 1953,
four of the perjury counts were dis-
missed, but in January this year the
Federal Court of Appeals was asked
to restore the four counts of the indict-
ment. The Lattimore case has not yet
been finally resolved.
* * ' * *
Some information cm Reuters ?
Founded in 1851 in England by the
German Baron Paul Julius de Reuter
(1818-99), it is the leading British
newsagency, operating in all parts of
the world. Converted into a limited-
liability co. in 1865, it became after
World War I a private trusteeship,
shareholders being paid out for over
£500,000. The agency then became
closely associated with the British
Press Association, which had pre-
viously transmitted Reutef messages to
British newspapers. This new arrange-
ment meant that the proprietorship
of Reuters passed to the newspapers
of Great Britain, a policy dictated by
national considerations. In 1947 the
final steps were taken to convert
Reuters into a world newsagency
owned and controlled by the Press of
the U.K., Australia and N.Z. A.A.P.
and the N.Z. Press Association have
taken-up shares in Reuters, and have
become parties to the Reuter Trust.
The trust deeds stipulate that Reuters
shall never pass under the control of
one interest or group.
• * * *
How does Australian Associated
Press operate ? %
The extensive cover of overseas
world news given by Australian news-
papers is achieved by the utilisation
of practically all the leading news-
sources of the world. These basic
news-sources are supplemented by
special individual services carrying
comment, background and interpre-
tation. All of these services are Press-
owned, and independent of Govern-
ment control, influence or subsidy.
Australian Associated Press (A.A.P.),
the main basic reporting service, is a
non-profit-making co-operative organi-
sation entirely owned by all but one
of the principal Australian metropoli-
tan daily newspapers, It is controlled
by a board of newspaper executives;
it has editorial staffs in London and
New York and staff-correspondents at
other key-points (Washington, South-
East Asia, etc.). The cost of operat-
ing A.A.P. is shared by members;
A.A.P. has a shareholding in Reuters,
with a seat on the Reuter Trust and
board. The A.A.P. service is com-
piled by its editors abroad from its
own sources and from other news-
services (such as Associated Press of
America, N.Z. Press Association, etc.).
Its staff being strictly enjoined to
report factually and objectively,
A.A.P.’s service has no tendency to-
wards or opportunity for political or
other bias or partisanship. A.A.P.
news is supplied to member-news-
papers and also to Press associations
for provincial and country news-
papers and radio-stations. Distribu-
tion to newspapers throughout Aus-
tralia is by continuous direct-line
network, using teletype tape-trans-
mission equipment. The news is sent
automatically to users exactly as re-
ceived, nothing being added or sub-
tracted in Australia.
♦ ♦ • «
In the Service Department recently
there was reference to the Holy
Roman Empire. Why was this empire
so called?
The answer can probably best be
given in the words of the Encyclo-
pcedia Britannica. “The coronation of
Charlemagne marks the coalescence
into a single unity of tv/o facts, or
rather, more strictly speaking, of a
fact and a theory. The fact is German
and secular: it is the wide de facto
empire which the Frankish sword
had conquered and Frankish policy
had organised as a single whole. The
theory is Latin and ecclesiastical: it
is a theory of the necessary political
unity of the world, and its necessary
representation in the person of an
emperor—a theory half springing from
the unity of the old Roman empire,
and half derived from the unity of
the Christian Church as conceived in
the New Testament.” It is not known
just when the empire was first given
the title.
* * * *
Some information on the schooner
Huia, formerly known round the Aus-
tralian coast?
The topsail schooner Huia was built
at Kaipara (N.Z.) and launched July
10, 1894. Built of the best N.Z.
timbers (puriri and kauri), she was of
204 tons gross and 196 tons net, and
was intended to carry 200,000 ft. of
timber; however, the nearest approach
to that quantity being stowed was
192,000 ft. odd. She entered the trans-
Tasman trade in Sept., 1894, from
Kaipara Heads,, to Sydney, taking 12
days (later she made a record passage
from Nobby’s Light, Newcastle, to
Kaipara Heads in four days six hours).
In 1912 she was sold to the Nobels
Explosives Co., and frequently visited
Sydney with explosives. Later she was
fitted with an 80 h.p. engine. Eventu-
ally she was sold to Fijian owners,
but on Jan. 26, 1951, was wrecked on
the Kolekame Reef near New Cale-
donia during a severe electrical storm.
At the time of her loss there was
still 90 per cent, of original timber
in her hull.
Brief Answers
J.E.: The Blue Funnel Line’s present
Nestor is the second of the name.
She arrived in Sydney on her maiden
voyage in December, 1952. The first
Nestor left Sydney for her last voy-
age to England in May, 1950, after
37 years’ service—she had made her
maiden voyage out in 1913. She car-
ried troops for four years during
World War I, and in 1940 was again
requisitioned for war service, and
carried food and war-supplies for the
duration. After that she was used
to evacuate British children to Aus-
tralia. The new Nestor is of 7802
tons gross K.N.: The number pf
people in private employment in Aus-
tralia at Jan. 31, 1954, was 1,931,200.
The number in Government employ
was 678,800. (Figures exclude those
in. the defence forces and rural
workers.) C.S.: The Rules of
Golf give the following definitions —
If one player plays against another,
the match is called “a single”; if one
plays against two, each side playing
one ball, the match is called a “three-
some” ; if two play against two, each
side playing one ball, the match is
called a “foursome”; if three play
against one another, each playing his
own ball, the match is called “a
threeball match”; if one plays against
the better or best ball of two or
more players, the match is called “a
best ball match”; if two play their
better ball against the better ball of
two other players, the match is
called “a fourball match” G.G.:
The reversing-layer, in astronomy, is
the stratum of the sun’s atmosphere
whose absorption of light from the
photosphere produces some of the
dark lines of the spectrum. (The photo-
sphere is the luminous incandescent
surface of the sun, the surface ordin-
arily seen from the earth.) The revers-
ing-layer is at a lower temperature
than the photosphere, but is itself
incandescent. When the photosphere
is eclipsed, the spectrum of the layer
shows bright, reversed lines P.G.:
The Scandinavian Hall, which used to
stand at 107 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, during the seventies of last cen-
tury was built by William T. Johnson
in 1866 and opened by him as a music-
hall M.O’R.: The Bulletin pub-
lished two serials by Montague
Grover, “Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
which began in the issue July,* 30,-
1930; and “One Punch Patsy,” which
began in the issue of September 7,
1932 W.McL.: The National
Broadcasting Service was inaugur-
ated in July, 1929, by the purchase
of two commercial stations in N. S.
Wales Programmes were provided by
private enterprise until July 1, 1932,
when The Australian Broadcasting
Commission was ' established
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to thS Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.C.W.; If you read the short
stories The Bulletin prints you
should get an idea of the class of
fiction we require. Regarding your
query as to what we don’t want in
fiction: (1) The Bulletin is not
seeking ghost stories, particularly
those in which the. ghost turns
out to be a straying billygoat or a
sheet flapping on a clothesline. (2)
Stories which are only a dream are
taboo, especially those in which a
dentist’s chair is the chief prop.
(3) Definitely on the banned list are
tales about deadbeats- who commit
suicide while unknowingly in posses-
sion of a prize-winning lottery-ticket.
(4) Also on the banned list are yams
about backyard gold discoveries by
families threatened with eviction.
(5) We are not moved by sentimental
burglars who jeopardise their safety
by singing lullabies to curly-headed
babies. (6) There is no place in The
Bulletin pages for henpecked hus-
bands who, after being intimidated
for 30 years, take to the grog, visit
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
two-up schools, and do a line with
the widow next door. (7) The
doors are closed to the newchum
jackeroo who, within a week, rides
a station outlaw, punches the day-
light out of the district bully,
finds a lost child, swims a flooded
river, and marries the squatter’s
daughter. (8) Struck off the register
long, long ago, the surgeon who is
called to operate upon the man who
stole his life’s savings and ran away
with his wife. (9) Not interested
in the practical joker who kills
himself as a result of his own tom-
foolery. (10) Nor have we any warm
regard for the counterfeiter who finds
himself landed with someone else’s
crook currency, (11) The basket awaits
the man who, learning that his boy-
hood sweetheart is a member of the
oldest profession, rescues her from her
life of shame. (12) A terrible fate is
in store for yams in which a dingo-
scalper murders his mate for the scalps
and is eaten by dingoes himself.
(13) A cool reception is given to
twins, triplets, quadruplets and quin-
tuplets who are involved in stories of
mistaken identity. (14) Persons who,
on the day of their discharge from
jail, go into bird-shops and release all
the caged birds are not welcomed.
(15) Not at all impressed by school-
boy detectives who solve mysteries
that have baffled a whole police-force.
(16) There are no encores for the
village wallflower, who overnight be-
comes a world-famous ballerina.
(17) The axe is reached for at the
sight of the poor wretch who has re-
ceived an anonymous warning that
he will die at the stroke of midnight
on a certain date. (He invariably
does —of heart-failure). (18) No
cheques are handed out to rustic
simpletons who outsmart gangs of
oardsharpers at poker while travelling
down to the Show. (19) It is a
long time since we have been amused
by thg antics of curates with bullants
in their pants. (20) No longer
curious as to what happens when two
enemies meet and one of the nightcaps
they are on the point of drinking is
laced with strychnine-bromide. Note:
The above brief list is a typical
sample of a portion of one week’s
rejections. Further unwanted ex-
amples could be furnished almost ad
infinitum, but the foregoing should
be a sufficient guide.


HastMMseiS
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, an a Proprietary Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December. 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL'
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each ..
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £l each
HELD IN RESERVE
1,071,545 Shares of £ I each
2,000,000
£628,455
300,000
1,071,545
£2,000,000
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH. PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable “Caterpillar”*
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to
secure the greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of
the valuable franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING
(QUEENSLAND) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria. U.S.A. "Caterpillar" Tractors and Moving Ei,*° r
QUEENSLAND, NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA. PAPUA. NEW GUINEA AND THE SOUTH-
WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS. , ' . ..
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois. U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio. O.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
ON
TRACKS
1904
1954
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUSI
# Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on
tracks is "Caterpillar."
e In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far
the highest user preference, as every year more
"Caterpillars" are sold than any similar type.
★
Caterpillar is a registered name in U.S.A.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to
be applied as working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompany-
ing the Prospectus, dated 30th April, 1954, and must be lodged
direct with the Company’s Office. Copies of the full Prospectus
and Application Forms may be obtained upon application to the
Company’s Office. .
The Shareholders of Hastings Deering Limited will be given
absolute priority of allotment of shares applied for not later than
the 15th May, 1954. Any shares not then applied for by such share-
holders will be dealt with as the Directors may determine._ ihe
Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise.
In the event of applications being received for more than 300.000
New Ordinary Shares, the Directors reserve the right to allot
additional shares ranking par! passu in all respects with the New
Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing
further working capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must
be raised by the issue of shares offered for subscription by this
Prospectus is £20,000. being required solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Ordinary
Net Profit
Year ended 31st August, 1951 . . £11,790
Year ended 31st August, 1952 . . £48,779
Year ended 31st August, 1953 . • £58,870
Dividends.
9.2%
39.0%
12.5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of
valuable franchises augurs well for the future development and
profits of the Company. Intending shareholders have this oPP“ r "
tunity to participate in returns and dividends from the expanded
future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increa
working capital. —-s
N.S.W.,
General
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 57 Abbotsford Road, Homebush,
Chairman and Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W.,
Manager. _ T „
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W.,
Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney St., Eastwood, N.S.W, Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla N.S.W., Merchant.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engmeer.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin
jpid.cc Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES,
F.C.1.5., The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company's
Registered office.
({ n which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with ) is published for
oTlTand is nit to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The Prospectus, of which this w an
ii doted noth Anril 195 i, and copies thereof have been filed respectively with the Registrar-General in New South
its contents), the Registrar of Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western
A Applicatiom d will the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a printed copy
of the Prospectus. ■ ___ T
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M. ON 30TH JUNE. 1954. CON-
SIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED.
PROVroED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE
COMPANY .WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
THIS ISSUE TO DATE HAS BEEN OVER-SUBSCRIBED BY
36,000.
NOTE:—The minimum
subscription having
been received, the
Directors have pro-
ceeded to allotment.
The Secretary,
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.,
The Hastings Deering Building,
William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
. State
■
I
I
I
B. 195


increase your
CHEWING CAPACITY
BY WEED CONTROL WITH
METHOXONE liquid MCPA selective
weed killer, particularly suited for control
of weeds such as Variegated Thistle in
pastures where clpvers are important.
‘AMOXONE’ —concentrated liquid amine
2, 4-D, containing wetting and water-
softening agents. Controls many pasture
weeds, such as Skeleton Weed and Saffron
Thistle.
■7*
CHLOROXONE ~ 2, 4-D powder which
dissolves readily in water and is recom-
mended for economical weed control.
‘ESTONE’ 80 — concentrated ester 2,
4-D miscible oil. Very effective for control
of hard-to-kill weeds, such as Galvanised,
Noogoora and Bathurst Burrs; Khaki,
Skeleton and Cape Tulip weeds.
★ Trade Marks of ICIANZ Lid.
Available from your usual Supplier
5A0.24X.4616
A DEPENDABLE PLANT figy PROTECTION PRODUCT
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
•w.
'm-
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
fg
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.). 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIO.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St.. Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PHOSPHATES AND AUSTRALIA
pHOSPHORUS is important
for plants, animals and man.
It is therefore of considerable
significance in agriculture, and
for stock, and through these
media it conditions the develop-
ment and well-being of man
throughout the world. In Aus-
tralia it has a special significance.
It has been estimated that more
than 80 per cent, of our crop-
lands are dependent upon the
addition of some form of phos-
phate annually (or, at least,
periodically) to maintain produc-
tion at a satisfactory level.
Although the influence of phos-
phates on wool is not so dramatic
as it is on wheat, milk and meat,
the wool of more than 20 per
cent, of Australian sheeps—those
on improved-pasture—and of 40
per cent, depastured on wheat-
farms depends to a degree on the
application of phosphates to the
land. That’s 60 per cent, of the
sheep-population of Australia.
Surprising, isn’t it?
A substantial part of our dairy-
production, especially in the
southern part of Australia, is de-
rived from the marked increase,
both in quantity and quality, of
improved-pasture; and this
depends on relatively large and
regular additions of phosphate
fertiliser. Directly and indirectly,
our wheat-crop depends on the
addition of phosphates to the soil
for several million bushels of its
annual production. It has been
calculated that at least one-third
of the total earnings of Australian
industry depend to a large extent
on the use of phosphate
fertiliser.
So, if my figures are accepted—
and I have checked them care-
fully—there seems no argument
about the national importance of
phosphate fertiliser. But, as
“Dooper” noted here (B,
26 1 5 1 ’54) concerning nitrogen
fertiliser, little has been done
about providing a range of
fertiliser.
Regarding fertiliser generally,
there is very little public aware-
ness. Now and then, as when the
Queensland Cane Growers'
Council presses for import-
licenses for additional supplies
of sulphate-of-ammonia (B.
10/3/ ’54), or when a scientist
raises a voice on the long-range
outlook on the use of phosphates
in Australia, as C.5.1.R.0. man
L. Lewis did at the Science
Congress at Canberra (B.
31/3/ ’54), thoughtful people
wonder. But such matters
receive, as a rule, very little pub-
licity, and I have not yet seen
any evidence of an attempt to get
to the roots of these problems.
I don’t know if the Q.C.G.C.
know it —possibly they do —but
one way of solving their
periodical worries about fertiliser
would be to import less bulk and
more nitrogen. As “Dooper’s”
article showed pretty plainly, it
is commonly used elsewhere in a
form much more highly concen-
trated. In any case, this sugges-
tion would be worth examining.
The position regarding phos-
phate fertiliser is somewhat
similar, with the difference that
phosphate fertiliser is of more
vital importance. Superphos-
phate containing about 20 per
cent, or less of water-soluble
phosphoric acid, is still prac-
tically the only form of phos-
phate fertiliser available in
Australia.
Local manufacturers have had
their hands full since the war
coping with a greatly increased
(and intensely seasonal) demand ;
there have been difficulties of
some complexity in delivering the
stuff on time ; and, in some cases,
if it doesn’t come in time you
might as well not have it.
Granted, too, that super, is
largely effective for the various
conditions under which it is used.
But, all the same, we lag a bit
when it comes to a choice of
phosphate fertiliser.
In most parts of the world
where farming is a modern
industry—as it is in most
respects, particularly as regards
mechanisation, in Australia —
several types of phosphate
fertiliser are used; a matter of
specialisation to meet particular
conditions. Some of these forms
are not dependent on the use of
sulphur, of which world-supplies
(of the most suitable kind, any-
way) are becoming scarcer and
dearer.
Compared with the 20 per
cent, (approx.) of water-soluble
phosphoric acid in super., there
are more-concentrated types of
phosphate fertiliser containing
two or three times this percen-
tage ; an obvious advantage in
terms of freight, handling and
bags, particularly in a country of
long distances and high freight-
charges.
Nitrophosphates, made by
treating the raw p|ipsphate-rock
with nitric acid instead of
sulphuric acid, thus dispensing
with sulphur, is being manufac-
tured in the U.S.A. and in some
European countries. Ammonium-
phosphate is being produced by
two large plants, one in Canada,
the other in the U.S.
In recent tests the New
Zealand Department of Agri-
culture found that “Ther-
mophos,” a lime-magnesia
phosphate of about the same
phosphate-content as super.,
gave superior results to super,
under some conditions. Basic-
slag, a by-product of steel-
manufacture, is a popular
phosphate fertiliser in Europe.
It has given good results on
moist, acid soils in New
Zealand. Imported from
Belgium, it is used on acid soils
in winter-rainfall areas in South
Africa. For many parts of Aus-
tralia it hasn’t much significance ;
in other parts it probably has.
Farmers, on their own initiative,
are mixing super, with agri-
cultural-lime in some districts.
Basic-slag contains about 20 per
cent, free lime.
Manufacturers often urge
farmers to accept out-of-season
deliveries of super., but a lot of
them won’t, because of caking.
Granulated or pelleted super.,
which is now largely manufac-
tured in the U.K., and is also on
the market in America, is one of
the answers.
That’s a quick look at phos-
phate fertilisers in the modern
world. Sufficient examples have
been given, 1 think, to indicate
that some of these developments
have a local application. In
fact, phosphate fertilisers have
such importance for Australia
that the whole question deserves
very careful consideration.
PETOFI.
Nitrogen Fertiliser
“Missouri”: Sulphate - of -
ammonia is still important in the
U.S.; but, as “Dooper” says (B.
26/ 5/ ’54), the American farmer
has more choice in nitrogen fer-
tiliser than appears to be the
case in Australia. At present,
apart from 5.0. a., he can pick
from five, at least.
A look at the nitrogen-con-
tent tells its own story. Sulphate-
of-ammonia has a nitgrogen-
content of about 20 p.c.; urea,
46 p.c. Ammonium-sulphate-
nitrate contains a total of 26
p.c. N ; 19i p.c. of ammonia N
and 6j p.c. of nitrate N for
quick action. Ammonium-
nitrate has 33 p.c. N, and is
available in prilled or pellet
form to resist caking, for free
flowing, and for easy handling.
Nitrogen fertiliser is also sold
in solutions containing from 37
to 40 p.c. N, suitable for use
alone or for ammoniating super.
Best-seller is anhydrous am-
monia—B2 p.c. N.
Surprised to learn how things
are with nitrogen fertiliser in
Australia. Maybe some smart
Yank will start an import busi-
ness, Or have you the market?
Tariffs, too, might be the killer.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Next rain over most of eastern Australia should be late
in July; the only departures from generally fine weather
may be some very light rains. There should be another cold
spell shortly, but nothing much in that line is expected until
towards the end of the month. North of Townsville further
showers are likely until August; in the south normal but
slightly below-average winter rains should continue right
through to the spring. The sun remains free of spots.
Storing Surplus Fruit
sundowner”: Big crops of
apples in Tasmania and several
of the mainland States mean that
a lot of fruit will be stored this
y ear - ...
If fruit is being kept until later
in the year, be careful where you
put it. Low iron-roofed sheds
are unsatisfactory because or
variation in temperature.
Good positions include inside
a brick or concrete shed which
has a high ceiling, in a cellar
which can be ventilated, on the
outside of k. shed or building
where the possie does not get
the sun, or under evergreen trees
where it’s cool and the sun
doesn’t penetrate.
Cases should not be placed on
the ground, or even on bricks,
as they will attract pests and
rodents. As a protection against
rats, if fruit is stored outside,
build a stand about 18in. high
and place a sheet of iron on the
top so that the iron projects some
inches out from the stand on
all sides. Keep the stand far
enough away from a building to
make its use as a bridge for rats
impossible.
Use battens to separate the
cases, allowing about iin. be-
tween cases for ventilation. After
completing the stack, cover with
canvas or bags. Place a sheet of
iron on the top of the stack to
keep the fruit dry and prevent
any possible infiltration by birds
or rodents.
New England Pastures
As reported in the Tamworth
(N.S.W.) “Northern Daily
Leader,” I. L. Johnstone gave
some details of work at the
C.5.1.R.0. field-station at Chis-
wick, on which certain conclu-
sions for pasture in the New
England are based.
First aim—to provide winter
supplement: to do this, without
any increase in carrying-
capacity, from 10 to 15 per cent,
of the land would be required.
Supplement could be in form of
sown pasture (on which weaners
are given first preference),
forage-crop, or temporary ley,
such as Italian rye-grass and
red-clover. Each acre of a
.temporary ley will usually pro-
vide sufficient supplement for
10 ewes during winter and early
spring.
Another aspect: improving
native grasslands by “surface-
seeding” with a clover.
In sown pastures, many
grasses and clovers were tested
alone and mixed. Of the grasses,
perennial rye-grass, cocksfoot
and several varieties of fescue


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“ FARMERS
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telepnone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. O’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castiereagh St., Sydney.
B
i
•tatements. etc.. filed In the
“Sander*" can be eecurely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference a*
the end of each month — or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book do. (Aunt.)
I
SANDERS^fe
< S^ FILE IsiE
Prices and fir-
ther iDlortnadoi
ipoo application
Y& always ready*
1; IliiiiiW -PSs-
*
'T‘
S 'MWm
rx
*wmm
i':‘:': : : :■;- ..
®5S8
f I
?•
L»Aa j / > m |
lit
A/myS ready for cooking
A/WayS gallons of hoiY water
Ajways greater convenience
A[[{6rfhe
one low running wtf
SHAVING
WASHING UP
n
WASHING
SHOWER
BATHING
COOKING
*tanmiduiEl 4Q)
INSULATED COOKER AND
WATER HEATER
BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL, EXTRA LARGE ROASTING OVEN AND
SLOW COOKING OVEN both vitreous enamelled inside
and out.
EXTRA LARGE HOTPLATE with room for six 6-inch
saucepans. Hotplate cover keeps heat in the hotplate.
No matter when you decide to
cook, the Carmichael “400” is
always ready Tor use. It sup-
plies enough hot water for all
household needs. The sparkling
titanium enamel finish ensures
easy cleaning . . . adds beauty
to any kitchen. Carmichael
“400” ... so simple to use, so
economical, so convenient.
Naturally it cooks perfectly ... if S 4
CaJimichaeL
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
A Unit of Email Limited
WRITE TODAY, for tree illustrated literature, to:
Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (Country Distributors)
11 Market Street, Sydney
or
W. T. Carmichael Limited, Rawson Street, Auburn
CanmidmeL 5%)
Heat Storage Range and .Water
Heater with True Thermostat Control
Even GREATER Economy—Even MORE Convenience
TWO extra large heat-sealed, fully
enamelled ovens with non-tip shelves.
TWO super-size hotplates with perfectly
flat machined surfaces.
This magnificent stove £ives you perfect auto-
matic cooking and permits boiling, simmering,
grilling, roasting and slow cooking all at the
one time. The heavy casting within the range
stores all the heat and only minimum of fuel
is required to maintain cooking temperature.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning,
the Carmichael “520” Is truly the ultimate in
solid fuel cooking.
and brome “have a place” in
New England pastures, but
phalaris and fescue were “really
outstanding” during the dry spell
this year. Mentioning disad-
vantages of phalaris —price of
seed and “phalaris staggers”—
Johnstone points out that the
last occurs in sheep on certain
soils (including granitic New
England soil) and, when it
occurs, indicates cobalt-defici-
ency. Top-dressing with cobalt
isn’t very expensive. As a
pointer to cobalt-deficiency,
apparent disadvantage can be
counted as an advantage.
Subterranean-clover is good
under New England conditions ;
stood the dry period well. White-
clover valuable on the basalt
soils, but on other soils, par-
ticularly where grazing has been
heavy over the last few months,
has practically disappeared.
Will come again, however, with
continued top-dressing.
The dry spell had emphasised
the importance of the seed-bed
for pastures. Generally, a good
deal more experience and ex-
periment is needed on the many
soil-types of the New England.
For temporary leys, Italian
rye-grass, Wimmera rye-grass,
HI short-rotation rye-grass and
oats all valuable, with red-
clover, subterranean-clover and
crimson - clover among the
legumes. Red-clover remained
green through the dry period;
crimson-clover very promising.
To surface-seed a native pas-
ture or to plough for a perman-
ent pasture remains debatable.
Both phosphorus and sulphur
are short in these soils. Both
can be supplied by super,, but
alternate methods (tests with
rock-phosphate and gypsum) are
being investigated.
Clover-ley
“Billjim”: An increase in
wheat-growing in Victoria’s
western district since the war is
linked with widespread adoption
of the clover-ley system of farm-
ing without fallow.
Tests by Victoria’s Depart-
ment of Agriculture indicate
some spectacular results. In one
instance yield per acre from
plots not treated with manure
was 11.7 bushels; from plots
treated with half a bag of
super, per acre 35.5 bushels,
with one bag super. 44.9 bushels.
In another area yield from un-
treated plots was 15.7 bushels,
with |cwt. super. 23.4 bushels,
with lewt. super. 30.2 bushels.
In both cases land had been
cropped some years ago, but
had been out to clover pasture
for several years.
Artificial-insemination
At the Wollongbar
Experiment Farm (N.S.W.)
animal - husbandry school,
H. E. R. Beattie, departmental
veterinary-reasearch officer, gave
farmers a general outline of the
artificial-insemination scheme.
If, he said, two breeds —A.I.S.
and Jersey, for instance —were
used it would be necessary to
have three first-class bulls of
each breed ; perhaps breef-breed
bulls (three) would be used, too,
for vealers. The inseminating
work would be done by trained
staff; visit farms as arranged.
By limiting area to a radius
of 10 miles, five to 15 cows
could be serviced daily. Semen
collected from each bull only
once a week. Sufficient was
taken to service up to 400 cows.
Sperm could be refrigerated,
held as long as required, and
carried to farms in a special
thermos. Generally, in this way
each bull would produce about
1200 calves each year. In
ordinary refrigerators the sperm
would last only four days; by
deep-freeze it could last for
years. Because of the uncon-
trolled manner in which a bull
was used on a farm, its useful
life was limited to about five
years. At an insemination-
centre it would be nearer 15.
Later, sub-stations would be
built.
Artificial - insemination was
first used, many years ago, by
the horsemen of the Russian
steppes; and nowadays tech-
niques have been evolved for
use with most animals. Its ad-
vantages (particularly with
deep-freeze) are so obvious as
scarcely to be worth the trouble
of cataloguing., Apart from the
aid to the individual farmer,
who can have his stock sired by
a quality bull of a type beyond
the capacity of the average
farmer to buy, there is the great
advantage that the seed of bulls
who are proved sires of high-
producers can be used to ad-
vantage, whereas, before, a
bull’s capacity to transmit milk-
or butter-producing genes re-
mained largely a matter of
guesswork. That is to say, by
the time his daughters were
producing, and his value was
determined, his period of use-
fulness would be almost over.
And, of course, he might not
be useful —in which case he had
served the same number of
cows.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There's a big difference be-
tween knpwing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that's when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
Farm Hints
“South”: Milk given to
chickens as a drink (provided
the vessels are kept in hygienic
condition; and this isn’t always
easy) is a sound precaution
against coccidiosis. Try to keep
surroundings dry and fresh this
disease flourishes in stale and
damp quarters or where birds are
overcrowded. The chickens
should be kept as warm as pos-
sible, Sulpha drugs are valu-
able where the disease does
break out, 16 per cent, sulpha-
methiazine being effective. In
addition to milk, buttermilk is
valuable: raise ration from the
normal five per cent, to 40 per
cent, for three days.
“Gyppo”: One of the cheapest
and best means of clearing
muddy water in dams is with
gypsum. About 121 b. (spread
over the dam) for each 1000
cubic-feet of water. Number
of square-feet of water-surface
multiplied by one-third of depth
at centre (or deepest) roughly
gives cubic content.
“F.”: Combination of D.D.T.,
sulphur and Bordeaux in sprays
sometimes burns tomatoes. Try
D.D.T.-Bordeaux combination
for the main spray, substituting
sulphur for D.D.T. every second
or third spraying: or use sul-
phur as a dust.
“C.A.A.”: A. A. McArdle,
S.A. Department of Agriculture
expert, making a few points on
poultry management, says roosts
should at all times be placed on
the level and kept at least 15in.
apart. He condemns the build-
ing of “ladder” roosts. Venti-
lation is, important—at least one-
third to one-half of the front
of the pen should be open. This
should be the upper portion,
with sufficient overhang to keep
driving rain out. As there
should be no scramble for the
best roosts, so there should not
be a scramble for food: for
wet-mash at least 12ft. of feeder-
space per 100 birds, on both
sides. Similarly with dry-feed.
“Big Billy”: Fitting of wider
mudguards to standard tractors,
so that they extend the full
width of tyres or steel wheels,
will give drivers greater pro-
tection if thrown on to a wheel
while operating in rough coun-
try. The modification also
reduces the mud and dust dis-
comfort.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
C.M.F. Camps
I’ve just finished my second annual
C.M.F. camp and, as they go, it was not
a bad show. We got most of our work
done, the food was all right and the
organisation of things was fair. But
something was missing.
C.M.F. units (ours, anyway) are organ-
ised by a few Regulars who do all the
office work. In our case these were headed
by the adjutant of the squadron and a
W. 0.11 who acted as S.S.M. The O.C.
is a C.M.F. man, as are ail the other
members of the unit. A number of
specially-trained Regular Army men came
up for the camp to instruct us in the
work to be done—explosives, air-com-
. pressors, road-making, flying-foxes and
other field machines, and boat-drill.
Of the 350 C.M.F. men in camp only
about 10 were volunteers. The rest were
national-service trainees. Two of the 10
were officers, another was a sar’-major. So
out of the national trainees, the eldest of
whom would not be much more than 22,
had to come the- troop-commanders,
troop-sergeants and the rest of the
n.c.o.’s.
Our squadron, being a country unit,
sees the majority of its members only
once a year at the annual camp, so most
of these young n.c.o.’s had no training
in the gentle art of leading men. The
result was much better than one would
expect, but, of course, what we wanted
were some older men —Diggers—to give
the boys the leadership they need.
Most people have grave misconceptions
of C.M.F. traning. If you are a volunteer
you can resign at any time and you may
have unlimited leave from parades if,
say, you are too busy on the farm. So
how about a few Diggers coming in on
the business? —D.S.M. (N.S.W.),
Fruit-fly in W.A.
During summer, when the fruit-fly is
most active, Westralian orchardists spray
their trees regularly. In many fruitgrow-
ing districts there are schemes —with a
compulsory contribution based on the
number of trees—which provide for a
team with sprays to visit every fruit-tree
in the district every five or six days.
This ensures that the backyard as well
as the commercial orchards are sprayed
regularly. Where these schemes operate
the fruit-fly is kept pretty well under
control.
Unfortunately, spraying stops at the
end of summer, and, although cold
weather slows-down the fly’s activities,
the pest doesn’t by any means cease to
breed. In the absence of any marketable
fruits it lives on native fruits and berries,
and such garden shrubs as fillypillies and
even roses. There’s always some fruit to
keep it going, and by the beginning of
next summer there’ll be enough fly
around to keep the orchardists on their
toes again.
Each winter the Agriculture Depart-
ment stresses the need for winter-spray-
ing, but nobody does anything about it.
Yet during winter is the only time when
there’d be any chance of dealing the pest
a knock-out blow. Commercial fruit-
growers do their best, and spray while it’s
necessary or practical to do so ; but they
have no control over rural and suburban
house-gardens.
Policing or spraying all those gardens,
through the winter may sound a big job,
but it wouldn’t be any bigger than that
of attempting to eradicate the Argentine
ant. That job was tackled when subur-
ban dwellers had their comfort threatened.
Surely the same amount of energy and
money could be devoted to the saving of
an industry.— Dustman (W.A.).
Golf
It’s a pity the McWilliam’s Wines
people have now decided to abandon
their professional-golf tournament
earlier it was postponed because it
clashed with the Royal tour.
The company’s reason for abandon-
ing the tourney is that bringing inter-
national golfers to Australia “took up
too much of its time.”
Some of the top-liners were brought
"Just think—WE might look like Dad when We grow up.”
out —Dai Rees and Max Faulkner and,
last year, the Argentinian Roberto de
Vicenzo, claimed to be the longest driver
in the world, and the Italian Ugo
Grappasonni. The tourneys certainly
gave golf in Australia a big boost; and
they were well run, with good prize-
money.
For the sake of the continued develop-
ment of top-flight golf here it’s to be
hoped they can soon be revived, under
the old or a new sponsor.— Roscoe
(Vic.).
Pink Arches
C. H. Christopher (B. 26/ 5/ ’54) quotes
Shaw; “Compulsory labor with death as
the final penalty [for not laboring] is the
keystone of Socialism.” That is indeed a
concise definition of the Socialist keystone
—and a reason why the Socialist arch
always falls down.
Idealists will forget that people are
people and not a bunch of statistics,
Shaw had, as C.H.C. says, brains-and-
enough to see that ideals won’t work just
from man’s goodness-of-heart—it is too
rare a commodity. But Shaw was wrong
in thinking that, instead, either ideals or
social-drones could be made to work by
force.
One of the few things psychiatry has
proved is that people just won’t do what
they don’t want to do—at any rate, not
well nor for long.
Social reform must begin with the
human being and stop trying to end him.
The trouble with Socialism lies not so
much in some of its ideals, but in its ways
of trying to enforce them. —G.F.P.
(N.S.W.).
Crown and Parliament
“A.A.C.” (B. 19/5/’54) doesn’t show
much; appreciation of contemporary legal
theory and British constitutional history.
It is a prerogative right of the Crown to
assent to bills presented by Parliament,
and it was originally a completely dis-
cretionary right. The first stage of what
turned out to be a successful struggle to
limit, the use of the Royal prerogative
occurred in the 17th-century conflicts
leading to the Revolution settlement of
1689. Between that date and the middle
of the 19th century there occurred the
growth of responsible government and
the establishment of a constitutional (as
opposed to personal) monarchy, as the
Crown is understood in modern legal
theory.
It became established that the preroga-
tive powers should only be exercised
through and on the advice of Ministers
responsible to Parliament. To this general
rule there are two possible exceptions.
Firstly, the Crown has a personal discre-
tion over those prerogatives which are
only essential to the efficient administra-
tion of government—for example, the
right to grant a dissolution. Secondly,
the Crown may refuse to assent to a bill
presented by Parliament which is without
doubt unconstitutional —for example, if
Parliament provided that members of
Parliament were to be nominated by the
Prime Minister.
But should the Crown or its represen-
tative attempt to exercise its prerogative
aribtrarily in any other field it would be
using its power in breach of constitutional
convention and therefore “unlawfully.”
Obviously, Ministers would never advise
the Crown to withhold its assent from a
bill proposed by the Government, and
should the Government attempt to intro-
duce an unpopular measure the remedy
must be political rather than legal.
It has long been decided that the action
of Parliament must be free from inter-
ference from any body not subject
to the influence of the populace.
Parliament would be most unwise
to fly in the face of the elec-
torate, and with the growing realisa-
tion by the people of the value of their
vote Parliament is certain to become more
aware of its responsibilities. Certainly the
only remedy for unpopular legislation lies
in the hands of the electors.
In his recent statement Mr. Justice Dean
would have the support not only of recog-
nised writers such as Wade and Phillips
(i Constitutional Law ) and Professor Fried-
mann {Principles of Australian Adminis-
trative Law), but also of constitutional
principles that were forged in the fire of
bitter experience.— MacD. (Vic.).
Parliament and the People
• “A.A.C.” says (B. 19/5/’54): “....it
won’t be long before we see the end of
the tyranny of Cabinet dictatorship and
the return of the control of Parliament
to the electorate where, legally, it belongs.”
Nothing can be returned unless it i
first taken away; therefore, if “A.A.C.
were correct, the voters must once hav
had greater control over Parliament than
they have today. That is not so —the
people have never had a greater measure
of control than they have now.
The real, fallacy of “A.A.C.’s” contri
bution is that to him Cabinet governmen
represents the intrusion of the Executive
into the Parliamentary sphere of govern
ment. The truth is the exact opposite
Cabinet is, at least nowadays, a body
representative of and responsible to Par-
liament, and as such it is the means by
which Parliament controls the Executive,
It would be interesting to know what
controls, other than a reasonably frequent
resort to the ballot-box, “A.A.C.” con-
siders the electorate should have over
Parliament. — Clem Lack (Q.).
White Australia
Abolition of race-segregation in schools
in the southern States of the U.S.A., now
ordered by the U.S. Supreme Court and
being opposed in certain States, has been
taking place gradually in many parts of
the South in recent years under the com-
bined influences of changing public
opinion and the economic burdens en-
tailed by maintenance of dual school
systems to cater for white and colored.
During a visit to the U.S. in 1952 I
was taken by a \yhite editor in a small
town in Mississippi to see a negro school.
My guide, a former Ku-Klux-Klan officer,
warned me in advance that I was not to
call the well-educated headmaster either
“Doctor” or “Mister.” When I demurred,
he relented to the extent of saying I could
use ’“Professor” if I wished.
The niece of a friend of mine in a
northern State had just visited the South
for the first time shortly before my
arrival. She had been amazed ito dis-
cover that there were separate toilets,
drinking-fountains and swimming-pools
throughout the South as part of the “Jim
Crow” set-up, which insists on segregated
seats in buses and street-cars as well as
at the movies.
In more than one school in the U.S.
I discovered that objection to color was
confined exclusively to children of negro
or part-negro blood. Japanese and Chin-
ese were not classified as colored.
The more I saw of the problem, and
of the vexed arguments on “civil rights”
which cut across political party-lines to
create acute bitterness a century after the
Civil War, the more I was convinced
that we must keep Australia free of
similar difficulties. — Charles Meeking
(ACT.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 281
Across
I—Leave1 —Leave to study an African river.
(5)
4—Rash divisions of the race cor-
poration’s summer refreshments.
(4-5)
8— Excessively fond of the children
back in the ring vegetable. (7)
9 It takes me to the stimulent of
the 19-year cycle. (7)
12 — Rookh everything in Louisiana.
(5)
13 — Moose-land disturbances of the
innermost body of a sponge. (9)
14 — Wound. (4)
16 — Harass five by a former spouse.
(3)
17 — Archy a despot without curve or
corporation in a cluster of five
stars in the Bull. (6)
20 —Who has taken orders for a
sailor queen? (6)
23 — Bewitch the male kiss. (3)
24 — A capital solo is not well ren-
dered. (4)
28 — Financially embarrassed toheroas
often are like those up. (2, 3,4)
29 — You may use the road on settling
this island. (5)
30 — Girl eager for cloth. (7)
32 — Seagod goes to the east interval
which Is the “devil in music.” (7)
33 Cry about her money if with the
pip. (6-3)
34 Pets draught moves. (5)
Down
1 — Blaze to study the pennant share.
(13)
2 They’re silly spaghetti. (7)
3 Music from Pesaro. (6)
4 Suspended before coppers han-
kered for food (8)
5 Give a girl a gun flotilla. (6)
6 Seated island fairy with no air
to content. (7)
7 N.Z. bird. (3)
10— Wanderer cuckoo not admitted!
(5)
11— Monday’s meat no doubt brushes
off the Arctic decolletage. (4, 9)
15—Hurry. (3)
18 — Commotion is a tonic. (3)
19— Carefully watches the progress of
the donjon pink. (5, 3)
21 — Don’t declare the innings for
the club. (5)
22 Hind is thrown off always. (3-4)
25 — Skite declares a big Easter event
in Sydney has been cancelled.
(4-3)
26 Fraternise with a fairy head. (6)
27 Doltish circle and an angle. (6)
31-Tree. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 280


PAGE OF WINTER
hfg
Surpfas Ptsposofs
Stores
439 p/rrsr cMf.cmPBOL sr
SYDNEY MA7308
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
4057M1M5
LEATHER JACKETS!
Australia’s Largest Stocks! Australia’s Biggest
Value!
Only the Highest Grade Cow Hide Leathers used, in
both Safari and Lumber styles. Superbly Out and
finished. Very smart, unconditionally guaranteed to give
rears of outstanding service. Select yours now from this
attractive range. Every jacket fully lined and in every
size, too. Please add 5/- extra for Reg. Post.
m
m
m
Illustration shows the popular
SAFARI Style, full belted,
smart zip breast pocket, and
two big flap side pockets in
erory size for £g/|5/_
Our Super Special is the
Dduble-breasted Safari.,
Zipper comes right
across and up to be-
hind the collar. Ve
popular this style.
o.” sri “ £9/15/-
Has every feature
above.
Leather Lumbers. We
sell scores of these. In
genuine cow hide.
Lumbers have double
zip fitted breast pockets.
straps at waist
band for snug fit. A
Zy £7/10/-
Leather Lumbers fully
sheep skin lined. Yes,
we have these, too, with big fur stormproof collar to match
skin lining. Full double breasted style. flO/lf)/.
Worth at least £lB|. We sell for only *>**/ ,w /
JUST RELEASED, U.S. Army Officers’ 100 p.c.
super quality leather “Jeep*’ “Safari” Jackets.
Luxurious fur lined! throughout, with matching
fur collar. Zip fitted.' Big, roomy flap pockets,
etc. In solid cow hide at the fli/IA/
XX special price of only .... it 10/ Iv/ "
POLO-NECK
PULLOVERS
ri
Timely release ol well-
known brand. Heavy
wool mixture. Brand
new and Perfect. Now
in navy and grey.
33’s to 38’S 40’s to 43’s
32/6 39/6
(Post 2/-.)
BALACLAVAS
T. V
mm
brand new
Pure wool.
Every size in
navy or grey.
Our price only
9/6 ea.
(Post 1/6.)
W'PROOF
D/B COATS
fv*
'I
n*
i length D/B Coats. With full
belt, two slanted hip-length
pockets. Made from fawn rub-
berised fabic. Ideal for all
delivery men, etc. CQ /L
Throw-out price only J*/ O
All sizes. (Post 3/-.)
TROUSERS!
Army S.Ds. Highest
quality khaki Serge.
Battle dress style.
Front, side and back
pockets. Guaranteed
brand new. Cost over
£5. Winter *g /#
release for .. *** / ®
PAIR
Sizes to 37 waist,
(Post 3/- pair.)
SHIRTS !!
Army Type khaki
drill brand new and
perfect. Collar at-
tached. Long sleeves,
full cut. One
pocket
(Post 1/6 each.)
Sizes: SM to OS.
17/6
LONG
UTANTS
Ex - R.A.A.F. release.
Pure cotton. Brand
spanking new. Best you
can buy. Extra warm,
too. Worth double the
price of
2 for 30/-
(Post 2/6.)
Sizes to 40in. waist.
DON'T MISS THESE
BATTLE DRESS
K.D. OK J. GREEN
TROUSERS
“The Strides with all
the Pockets.” Guar-
anteed pre- shrunk.
Out they go. 65/-
value. Pair, mm /#
Sizes 4’s to B’s. v
(Post 2/- pair.)
SHIRTS'!
Genuine “R.A.N.” navy-
blue drill. Superb
quality. Brand new!
Extra full cut, short
sleeves, one pocket, col-
lar attached. The shirt
you’ll NEVER WEAR
OUT. Terrific
bargain at only "
Plus 1/6 each post.
Every size, too.
WOOL
BERETS >
Genuine army release.
Heavy wool khaki.
All sizes, with leather
band. Tie back, q /#
Bargain '
(Post free.)
REPEAT OFFER!!
BOOTS!!
i
SENSATIONAL, RELEASE!
R.A.A.F. Type Fully Fur Lined
EVERY SIZE
£lO VALUE
WITH SOLID
LEATHER SOLES.
Made to Rigid . _ »
Specifications. XT J* / I ff| / m
New and Perfect liv/ I*/
Add 5/- packing and post.
GIFT SPECIALS
COMPACTS!
lip?
il
■r<i
m
Ultra modern. Heavy gold
plated. Two popular sizes
as illustrated. Genuine
19/-
(Post 1/-.)
COST!!
CASES!
hfg
HERE'S A BARGAIN!
“MAP OF AUSTRALIA.'
Dazzling chrome it /L
case. New ! D/pack. •
frocl
A
ARMY STYLE
GROUND
SHEET
CAPE-
combs
As illustrated.
Just released.
Genuine w’-
proof in
heavy rub-
berised can-
vas fabric.
Brand ne w
and perfect.
Easily worth
6 5/-. Out
they gro at
37/6
Each.
(Post 2/6.)
FLANNELS
GENUINE EX-ARMY BRAND NEW.
Slightly mothed. SM and Men s QA/.
only. Big Bargain TWO for
(Post J/9.)
EX-B.A.A.F. INNER
FLYING SUITS
m
BRAND NEW !
Fully zippered.
Quilted kapok
filled. Extra
warm. Ideal
for motor cy-
clists, driv-
ers. farm
workers, etc.
All sizes.
COST OVER
£l5.
OCR
SPECIAL
OFFER
95/-
EACH.
(Post 3/6.)
RUSH THAT
ORDER NOW
"YANKEE
JACKETS"
(As illustrated)
W’proof and windproof. Zip
closure. Half elastic waistband.
Fawn rubberised fabric. For
all occasions. Brand new and
perfect!
65/- value. Sizes 4
and 5 only ..........
(Post 3/-.) EACH
new am
35A
LONG UTANTS
■
: : ,
EX-ARMY PURE FLAX-
NEE, SILVER GREY.
BRAND NEW AND PER-
FECT. All sizes. Stock
up now.
2 for 30/-
(Post 1/9.)
SPECIALS FROM OUR HUGE CANVAS SECTION
200 ONLY GENUINE
"HOODWYN" EYEIETTED
CAR COVERS!
Special tightly woven white cloth-
Sun-, dust-, and damp-proof.
Light and easy to handle. Fully
eyeletted. Snap up bargain, in
two wanted sizes.
15 x 13
79/6
18 X 13
95/-
(Post 3/-.)
MATTRESSES
New and Perfect. Plock Filled.
Imported Ticking. Strong tufted
6ft. x 3ft. Sin. Only QJ /L
Nearly half price w
(Post 3/6.)
TARPAULINS! TARPAULINS!
B? StdkSL'Z Wb-i SSUn tSTWf
21 years of trading now available at sensational savings to yon.
Twentv-ounce rot- and water-proof throughout. Guaranteed
brand new and perfect. Fully eyeletted and hoot sole stitched.
For heavy haulage work, stack covers, semi-trailers, tractor
covers, wheat and wool cartage, etc.,
Please note. As we can quote only ISofthese special
we must advise that orders shall be fulfilled in strict priority
of receipt. If we cannot fulfil your order we shall return your
cheque by return mail.
Add 5/- cartage to rail.
NOTE CAREFULLY THE SIZES AVAILABLE.
3 ONLY . . 15 X 21 . . £39/10/-
2 ONLY . . 18 x 24 . . £49/10/-
7 ONLY . . 15 x 12 . . £l9/10/-
3 ONLY . . 21 x 30 . . £65/-/-
1000 IMPORTED BLANKETS
BRAND NEW IMPORTED
2 for 35/“
Dark Grey—Half Wool and Half Cotton.
60 x 80. OUR PRICE 19/6 EACH
Add 3/- cartage to rail.
DON’T MISS THESE. LIMIT OF 6.
IMPORTED COTTON BLANKETS
500 ONIVY BRAND NEW AND I‘EKEECT. DJLAiN GREYS
WITH FANCY BORDERS. Size 46 x 70. 1000 8 q/£
of uses for these. Snap up price •
Post 2/-, or .
4 for 35/-
(Post on 4, 3/6.)
Linen
Spcial!
Pillow-
cases,
Xea-
towels
hf
1 pair snow white Heavy Bleached
Quality, Hemmed D/B SHLEIS,
f°Snow°white “Housewife’’ PILLOW-
CASES. Extra large. High Qualify.
4 GENUINE HEAVY IRISH LINEN
imported TEA-TOWELS. Fancy
borders. (Unhemmed.) Good big
5 £6/10/- value for the
Post 3/6. One Lot to each customer.
ARMY
BEDS
«!ii
ainli
iiil
Add 3/6 cart-
age to Rail.
Please state
nearest attend-
ed platform.
The Real Thing. GENUINE
Diamond Wire Iron FOLDING
BEDS. Condition as new
Price, each
65/
Early orders advisable.
YARDAGE STOCKS TO GO!!
STRIPED AWNING CANVAS
500 yards available. Win. wide heavyweight imported.
Popular green stripes on light grey background.
You’d pay up to J7/6 yard anywhere. yjj #
ONLY huRBY FOB THIS!
OUB PBICE
Plus 1/6 yard postage.
UNBLEACHED CALICO
Highest quality obtainable. Fifty-four Inches wide.
Ideal for bed sheets (syds. niakes a pair),
drop sheets, car covers, etc. 1,001 uses. Worth
7/6 yd- Hots of 10yds. to clear
at • •
(Post 3/6.)
i,uui uses.
10yds. for 47/6
H'weight 20oi. Tarp. Canvas! By the Yard
500yds. only. Super quality rot- and water-proof green
Tarp. Canvas, 361 n. wide. Usually sells around
37/6 yd. Our price to clear just
gh
A,W.A.S. SKIRTS
FOR £1
Yes, it’s true!
Brand new Ser-
vices skirts made
from superfine
khaki worsted
serge. You’ll
want many of
these at this
price. Can easily
be dyed to your
favorite col ors.
Sizes range from
24, to 28.
REMEMBER
THE PRICE.
JUST
£1 ea.
(Post free.)
The material
alone would cost
twice this price
MATTRESS COVERS!
Ex-Army H’weight covers in
perfect condition. Will last
for years and years. Size is
6(t. by 2ft. Sin. Can be con-
verted' into many other uses.
We suggest you order early
on these. Give away 1Q /A
price onlv, each .... • w
(Post 2/6.)
BED SHEETS!!
Good quality unbleached,
double-bed sheets, 72 x 90,
fully hemmed, soon becomes
sparkling white. Long wear-
ing. Sheets have centre join.
Three hundred pairs only at
the sensational price of
32/6 per Pair
Post 2/- pair. LIMIT of 6.
Post on 6, 4/6.
TRAVEL RUGS
AT COST AND LESS ! ! Full
size, pure. wool, heavy quality,
fringed ends. Fancy blue,
fawn, check designs. #»(j IL
100 only. Now, each «'/ w
|, (Post 2/-.)
A.W.A.S.
GLOVES
m
m
NEW ! PERFECT!! SMART!!!
Nigger Brown NAPPA GLOVES. Finest
of Quality. Worth at least 30/- ia/
pair. Post free. Sizes 6i. 7, 1 h lw '
STOP PRESS BARGAIN
MOUTH ORGANS
Ex-Army brand new Italian
40 reed double key of “C”
sealed boxes. Cost 25/-.
only released for just
(Post free.)
imported,
in original
100 10/-
EACH
EVERY ITEM A GENUINE BARGAIN-NO CO.D.-Please Add Exchange to Country Cheques


/
\
\
\
vv
I V -V,
.'1 Sr'nK
m
m
a ”
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
The
%
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS
Assurance Co. limited
mm.
Wk..
mm : *
X
, ,
Vi
A
vs
mm
ms
■
: V
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
MLM/m
