

THE HOUSE
dgf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
ENTIF ALIAN
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3856
Wednesday, January 6, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
SYON HOUSE, TREASURY OF "ADM" INERIOR FURNISHING
EIGHT miles from Hyde Park Corner, in the centre of London, is the
Duke of Northumberland’s great mansion, Syon House, the last of the
historic private houses in the metropolis to remain fully furnished and still
in the occupation of its hereditary owner. With its roots deep in the past,
and its fabric representing the work of four hundred years, it is one of the
great historic buildings of Britain, ft stands within its own rural park on
the north bank of the Thames, and is a familiar sight to thousands who
visit Kew Gardens or stroll along the tow-path from Kew to Richmond.
Like other great houses, Syon belongs not to one period but to many.
Originally it was a nunnery founded in the fifteenth century by Henry V.
It became Crown property after the Dissolution in the reign of Henry VIII.
After her trial, and while awaiting her execution at the Tower of London
in 1542, Catherine Howard, Henry’s fifth wife, stayed at Syon. Five years
later Henry VIII’s body lay there for the night on its way from Westminster
to Windsor for burial.
In 1547 the Duke of Somerset secured the estate and there started
building a house, the shell of which forms the present building. Three years
later Edward VI was entertained at Syon by the Duke, whose mulberry trees
planted at that time still exist today. However, the Duke of Somerset did
not enjoy his estate very long. Following his execution for plotting against
the Crown in 1552, Syon House was presented to John Dudley, Duke ot
Northumberland. His son married Lady Jane Grey, and it was from Syon
that she went to London to reign for nine days only. Soon both she and hei
husband met their death on the scaffold.
In the eighteenth century Capability Brown was employed to transform
the grounds at Syon, and Robert Adam was engaged to create the palatial
interior which visitors to Syon House can see today. The magnificent rooms
represent his finest work and are the best examples of English decorative
architecture in Britain. His superb chimney-pieces are a feature of the Long
Gallery—a room of noble proportions renowned for its decorated ceiling.
The full grandeur of Adam’s conception is seen in the Great Hall with its
decorative stucco work and in the adjoining ante-room, which is the most
richly colored of all Adam’s rooms, recalling the most lavish epoch of
the Roman empire. The twelve green columns around the room were found
in the bed of the Tiber and brought to Syon House in 1765. The whole
succession of magnificent apartments contain a remarkable collection ot
paintings, furniture and works of art.


HOME-STUDY COURSES...
The ONLY way to achieve Success is to
work for it. STOTT’S can train you privately
in your own home, for a secure, well-paic
Career.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Slolts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 154) AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVEFS:
The Beltane Book Bureau. P-O. Box 965, Wellinjon,
N 7 specialises in rare and current N.Z. and ,ins-
San books, also in bookish items of generaj in-
terest Our Bulletins and Supplements give ad«nce
news gossip and book sale prices. ( Annual sub. ah)
wf specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
„ n( j w 2. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of a N Z South Seas. Antarctica, etc., and . jblish
Oolleotow’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6). /
The RedPage
MURRAY RIVER REVERIES
The habit of reading prefaces has
vanished with the three-decker novel;
and the reader who jumps straight into
Archer Russell’s Murray Walkabout
(Melbourne University Press) is liable to
look at the pull-out map after the first
twenty or fifty pages and wonder where
he is and where Mr. Russell is going.
Then a reference to the preface en-
lightens us; this is a walkabout into the
past. In one chapter we are making a
first survey of the Murray from a paddle-
wheel steamer splashing between Morgan
and Renmark ; a few chapters later we
are contemplating the huge Murray Basin
system of locks, which Mr. Russell feels
may rival the Tennessee Valley scheme
when it is completed:
It was my good fortune to visit all of
the works constructed under this scheme
between the years 1919 and 1929.
Then again we find Mr. Russell sharing
a sandspit between Renmark and Morgan
with his late wife (to whom his book is
dedicated) for six months, evidently a
good few years ago ; and later on navi-
gating the river and shooting its rapids
with a young canoeist- he calls “The Cap-
tain” —obviously the late John Fairfax,
who wrote a pleasant book about the
trip, and some of whose excellent photo-
graphs, particularly of ibises, are in-
cluded among the many illustrations.
Thus the book is not a journalist’s
quick once-over, but the memories of a
traveller who has returned again and
again to the one spot, and gone over most
of it with a swag, but also “on horse-
back and by canoe, motor-car or
bicycle.”
There is plenty of information about
the Murray ; and a little about the over-
landers who forced the track from N. S.
Wales to Adelaide with cattle. Mr.
Russell is disappointing on the Rufus
River massacre of blacks, but very good
on how the aborigines constructed their
bark canoes.
Indeed, any of his little treatises on
methods he has observed
cellent, whether it is hr
fisherman sets and service;
(a line of many hooks str
stakes at each side of the
a nine-foot carpet-snakf
young paddymelon wallal
waited an hour behind a t
it done ; or how a six-foot
like a stick down the rive* ,
professional fisherman, having hooked a
large cod, would tow it behind his boat
to a prepared pool near his camp, where
it could be kept alive until it was time to
take it to market—thus imitating the
crested bellbird, which, in Mr. Russell’s
earlier account, paralyses the caterpillars
it catches so that they may remain inert
but alive, and fresh in its larder.
But all these —and the calls and habits
of so many other birds ; and the news
of bell-frogs that avenge their kind by
swallowing snakes that swallow lesser
frogs; and the lonely horse nan who
cheered and cantered away into oblivion
as the canoe negotiated the seemingly-
impossible rapids ; the exploration of still
and shaded billabongs ; the conversations
with eroded inhabitants of this reluctan?
land of milk and honey ; and H. S. Taylor,
editor of the “Murray Pioneer,” with his
5000 books and his koala, Billy—are sub-
dued by the charm of memory into some-
thing a little more than a mere descrip-
tion of the Murray Basin.
A WOMAN IN RED
A wild thrush sings in a coral tree,
Love, love, love, she’s in love with me!”
And a woman comes in a scarlet coat
To feed the bird with the throbbing throat.
“Bird, bird, bird,” the woman calls,
And on bush and sea a silence falls;
Then the bird sings high and the bird sings
low
His song of joy and his song of sorrow.
“Bird, little bird,” the woman said,
“The tree’s in flower and my coat is red
And your song of joy is sweet and plain
But why do you sing those notes of pain?”
»
“Love, love, love, take root and stand
And l4j light a moment on your bird-like
hand
For' "my‘love she sings a silver note
Fjfom a tree that walks in ai scarlet coat
“And though I answer, my true love hides
In that coral tree by the ebbing tides.”
Then the heart cried out from the woman’s
breast
Like the wild bird singing in his flame-tree
nest.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Recent Penguins
The catholic tastes of Penguin selec-
tors are exemplified in recent batches
which range from Euripides, Jung, John
Stuart Mill, Beethoven and Charlotte
Bronte to Bullets for the Bridegroom, by
David Dodge, The Manchester Guardian
Crossword Puzzle Book, The Ant World,
by Derek Morly, and five more crime
stories by John Dickson Carr.
It is possible that some of the latter
help to pay for some of the former, so
highbrows and lowbrows needn’t quarrel.
There should be no quarrel over
Serenade, by James M. Cain, which satis-
fies every human instinct for love,
violence and excitement. The hero is an
opera-singer famous in Europe and
America who gravitates to Mexico, where
he is without a bob or a job because his
voice is finished. He falls in love with
a Mexican-Indian young lady and his
voice returns when she reciprocates his
interest. The story takes them from
Mexico to Hollywood through a series of
hair-raising adventures of tragedy and
horror, and then back to New York,
where the hero returns to grand-opera
singing. After reading the life-story of
the author one ceases to be surprised
at the feeling descriptions of the experi-
ence of a great singer: Cain’s mother was
a concert-singer, and he tried to become
one. His book is brilliantly told.
Jassy, by Norah Lofts, is a quieter
horse of another color. Set in England
at the beginning of last century, it gives
an interesting picture of the time while
telling the story, in four parts, of Jassy
Woodroffe, a strange child of peculiar
parentage ; how she rose from a lowly
position to be the wife of a gentleman
no-hoper who lived in a great manor-
house of that particular part of Essex.
The first part is told by a boy who
lives nextdoor to the Woodroffe family.
He tells of Jassy’s childhood and how
he saved her from persecution by the
local witchhunting rabble and gained
a great affection for her. The second
part is told by the headmistress of the
select school where Jassy goes to work,
and she tells how Jassy is promoted to be
a scholar. Her school-friend then takes
up the story of how they both run away
from school to the girl’s home, Morti-
boys, and how Jassy cleverly succeeds
in attracting the interest of the girl’s
father, who is a drunkard.
The last part of the story is woven
round a deaf-and-dumb servant whom
Jassy brings into the house and befriends.
She tells how Jassy is wrongfully
accused of poisoning her drunken hus-
band, which brings both mistress and
servant to the gallows. A romantic novel
which just misses being melodrama by
the sincerity of the author’s observa-
tions.
The Brave Bulls, by Tom Lea, all about
and inside the Mexican bullring, has all
the stark quality of a documentary on
the subject done in technicolor. Mr.
Lea certainly knows his bullfights and
bullfighters, their inamoratas and the
entrepreneurs who grew fat on the blood-
and-sand industry.
Journey Into Spring, by Winston
Clewes, is a straightforward story about a
p.-0.-w. who returns to find that he has
inherited a great country mansion, which
he promptly does his best to turn into a
prison-camp with only one prisoner in it.
He learns from the resentment of his
nan cannot live alone. It
' t- e.
ction to Jung’s Psychology,
by ordham, is hardly to be
his brief notice; nor the
Mill of Karl Britten. The
o. 7 by Beethoven and the
to of Schumann are added
ordinarily cheap series of
res, and Hertfordshire is
aaaeu iu me counties in The Building of
England series. Nicholaus Pevsner gives
his usual meticulous description of the
dozens of glorious palaces, churches,
manorhouses and tithe-barns that still
exist in that county, but it is a pity he
doesn’t get a photographer with some
feeling for what things look like. The
photos of such lovely buildings shouldn’t
be so commonplace and banal.
FROM THE SEA
Only over the sandbank can you see the
tree branching,
Get the idea of channels that traced a
tree:
For the blueprint-sea charts shapes; a
launching
Of ideas that have sailed the land. See
The blue sails of mountains along the
coast,
Waves mocking them. I cannot
Think other than that sea shaped most
Of the figureheads that adorn land a lot;
Painted, with spots and stripes, with face
and bosom;
Traced lines of hair, and leaves; and
All the imagined shapes of rose and
blossom
Were drawn out of the sea—this fair one’s
hair, like sand,
Is crimped and golden. I think there
Came all art from the sea, when the land
was square.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Vanishing Babies
The plum is still firmly in the mouth of
Arthur Upfield’s half-caste detective,
Napoleon Bonaparte, in his latest adven-
ture, Murder Must Wait (Heinemann).
As book after book presents his copy-
book grammar, we come to believe in it:
no doubt we should miss it if it were
changed to more normal Australian.
As usual, Mr. Upfield’s plot is un-
usual ; infants are disappearing from a
Riverina town, and it strikes the investi-
gating Detective-Inspector Bonaparte that
they have all been children of neglectful
parents: party-givers, lady novelists
(Trollope’s mother wrote her family out
of debt), ladies’-parlor drinkers and just
plain unwanting mothers. With the aid
of a yopng policewoman the half-black
detective investigates bank-managers,
estate-agents, doctors, ageing ethnologists
and a mission for aborigines outside the
town.
There are sinister old aboriginal rites
at midnight and dawn, with dances by
naked gins and everything, and there is
a sherry-party which Mr. Upfield repre-
sents as even more sinister than the
aboriginal doings, not because of any-
thing that happened there beyond drink-
ing sherry . . . and although sherry can
give a deplorable hangover, the author
seems here to protest too much.
The detecting in this novel is mildly
meritorious, and the solution of its many-
sided perplexities is satisfying and sur-
prising. But more and more as one reads
Mr. Upfield’s books, one is impressed by
his landscapes: suburban cottages, gum-
trees, aboriginal settlements, drives
through the country, all are seen casually
through the eye preoccupied with detec-
tion, and for that reason are at once less
emphatic and more convincing than the
inspired vision of many a saga-writer
anxious to impress his country on his
reader.
Fish Dish
For a reader who has both fished and
read fishing-books for years, Mr. Hal
Missingham’s Good Fishing (Dymock’s)
contains at least one very pleasant sur-
prise. This is a way of cooking fish by
planking, a method said to have been in-
vented by the American Indians—which
no doubt explains why one hasn’t heard
of it; it is so seldom that one goes fish-
ing with an Indian.
The plank should be made of well-
seasoned ash, oak or banksia wood, an
inch and a half thick, and grooved around
the edges and into the surface to hold the
juices released in cooking. Put plank into
cold oven and pre-heat for 5-10 minutes.
Remove and butter well. Arrange the
cleaned and prepared fish, opened-up and
pegged, in the centre of the plank; sur-
round with vegetables in season which
have been parboiled, and mashed potatoes,
then place back into the oven to finish
cooking. Garnish and serve very hot on
the plank.
Other than thus learning how to make
fish walk the plank, experienced fisher-
men may not learn much from the book-
let. The advice on tactics, tackle and
bait is elementary, and, apart from a few
recipes, practically all the material is
already available in other monographs
and in Roughley’s great Fish and
Fisheries of A ustralia. But, still, even for
the expert, a fishing-book is a fishing-
book.
Illustrated with his line-drawings, Mr.
Missingham lists the principal sea- and
fresh-water fish (trout excluded) to be
caught in Australian waters ; and in each
case, with emphasis on the use of Aus-
tralian wines, gives recipes for camp- and
table-cpoking.
Reviewed Briefly
Carcoola Holiday : Nourma Handford
(Dymocks). Teenage girls will adore this
novel. The scene changes from inland
sheep-runs to a coastal area where sugar-
cane is farmed. Carcoola Holiday is the
third of a series, so that many of its
characters will already be old friends.
Hope and the twins are very busy and
ditherish preparing for Fran’s wedding.
There is a serious note concerning the
adjustment to Australia of a diffident
Polish girl; lots of fun, particularly for
two small boys, over the writing of im-
probably adventurous radio-serials (and
a surprise in connection with the person-
ality of a most successful woman author
of this brand of “literature”). Mrs. Hand-
ford is most, successful |in providing
acceptable fare for an age-group not
quite old enough for truly adult romances
and much too sophisticated for “kid stuff.”
The book is marred by numerous print-
ing-errors.
:| * * * *
The Wind and the Caribou: Erik
Munsterhjelm (Allen and Unwin). Trap-
ping mink, fox and musk-rat and hunting
carbou, beaver and bear amongst the
me .. m ains and lakes in the snowy north
of 'anada. The author was once in the
midst of “thousands” of wolves which
were following a migrating caribou herd.
Also) he describes spearing caribou from
a canoe as they swim across a lake—-
which is a very odd form of fishing. An
excellent book of its kind, packed with
outdoor adventure and information.
I * * * Jj!
Report from the Rhodesias : H. M-.clear
Bate (Melrose). Mr. Bate was in Rhodesia
to observe the federation- of Northern
and Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland.
His book is essentially a political and
historical survey of this event containing
much that will be familiar to many readers
but : useful as a survey and with fresh,
up-to-the-minute observation both on
negro unrest and the pressure from India.
He gives a lively and menacing account
of the march of the Zulus upon the
Hindus in 1949. The latest trouble-
makers, the Kikuyus, outside his orbit,
are mentioned only briefly and in passing.
In Rhodesia Mr. Bate was the guest of
Garfield Todd, a New Zealander by birth,
who came to Africa to found a mission
and is now an M.P. and owns one of the
largest ranches in Southern Rhodesia.
* * * *
Unpredictable Queen: E. E. P. Tisdall
(Stanley Paul). A biography of Queen
Alexandra. As daughter-in-law to Queen
Victoria, who was in profound mourning
for the Prince Consort when the negotia-
tions for the marriage were arranged in
Belgium and burst into tears the moment
she saw the prospective bride, as wife to
Edward VII and as a political peg upon
wiom the Danes hung their hopes of
English protection against the machina-
tions of Bismarck, Alexandra had her
share of difficulty and drama. Mr. Tis-
dall, very much in the manner of Lytton
Strachey, makes a most human and in-
teresting story of it.
* * * *
My Christmas Book: F. W. Boreham
(Epworth Press). Though he writes from
Kew in Victoria, Dr. Boreham recalls his
early days in New Zealand in most of
these little essays, dealing with a wedding
he helped to arrange, the famous Marsden
Christmas sermon, the theft of a goose
from the woodshed, etc. It is light, eas}
writing and one would say more about it
had not the review-copy been stolen by
the Religious Editor.


Jknthong
Morderns 9
has long
been famous
fow
■HI
|||
■■■
m
■ m
mm
lii
m
t s
S C r V ICC I far all aur easterners
in all times 9 far all time!
tsffl
V
K
r*‘«niii(
sessiS
KA
131 years ago we set ourselves a task ... to give more service to our customers than any other store in
Sydney. It wasn’t always easy, yet we’ve managed to give you the kind of service that counts, through
two catastrophic world wars, through the disaster of our fire in 1901. Not only is our staff instructed
to give you superb service at all times . . , our individual services, such as our Clothing Hospital, our
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and Post Office, our Delivery Service . . . turn shopping
into a pleasure. We can’t exactly say how many customer services you’ll find in our Store, as they
multiply each week. Our Clothing Hospital (unique in Sydney) was opened a short while ago. Yet
the amount of business it has done fully justifies our belief that if you serve your customers they’ll stay
with you. Apart from increasing the prestige of Anthony Horderns’, these services promote customer
goodwill; they’re an added inducement for you to shop in our Store. Not that these services are limited
to Store customers! Our customers in the country regularly send their furniture to us to be refurbished,
renovated. They have their furnishings made up by our experts. When building new homes they seek
advice on colour schemes, on the type of furniture best suited to country conditions. They know,
through experience, that they can depend on us. The big business organisations of Sydney shop in
our Store, too! We’ve equipped whole offices with furniture, flooring, draperies. So you see, there’s
no customer discrimination at Anthony Horderns’. We will give the best service to all our customers,
in all times, for all time!! »
Here are just a few of our famous services:
Commonwealth Post Office on our Gnd. Fir.
Commonwealth Savings Bank Branch
2 Restaurants and 2 Buffets.
Rest Alcoves and Free Toilet Roorns.
Numerous Public Telephones on all Floors.
Hiring out of Crockery, Glass, Cutlery.
Shoe Repairs, Orthopaedic Shoe Salon.
Optical Prescriptions and Repairs.
Clothing Hospital, Gnd. Fir., George St.
Dry Cleaning Section, George St, Floor.
Women's Suits man-tailored, George St.
Men's Leather Jackets Repaired, George St.
Ladles' Hosiery Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Umbrella Repairs, Pitt St., Ground Floor.
Racket, Sporting Repairs, Lower Gnd. Fir.
Trout Fishing Licences Renewed, Issued.
Watch and Clock Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Re-silvering of all Household Silverware.
Venetian and other Blinds Repaired.
Curtains, Blinds made to your order.
Home Advisory Bureau, Third Floor.
Lounge Suites repaired, reupholstered.
All furniture expertly repoiished.
Wire Mattresses re-wired in our factory.
Furniture made to your own design.
Mirrors re-silvered, repaired.
Lino and Carpets laid in your home.
Electrical, Household Repairs, 2nd Floor.
m
i
iWMm
M l
w .
r'l'Tit
\ v . k
kts!
2S
wC?
m
n
MOTES
iss.
ONE M 24 0 1, NIGHT AND DAY. MAIL
ORDERS ,
T O
BOX
2 7 12, G.
P. 0., SYDNEY


Wanted-the Right Teachers
Green blackboards
are not Enough
By a TEACHER-PARENT
# This is the second of two articles
based on N. S. Wales experience, but of
much more general application. The
first attacked, in particular, the present
Leaving Certificate system and suggested
radical reform.
ANY reforms in the school curricu-
lum will need (as hinted in an
earlier article) the very finest type
of teacher we can get to carry them
out. As a rule, when reforms in educa-
tion are mentioned, there is much talk of
film-projectors, radios, pretty chairs and
green blackboards. What we don’t hear
much about is the kind of person who
writes on the green blackboard and what
it is he writes.
Yet there is a growing amount of
anxiety among thoughtful parents and
conscientious teachers about just these
two things. Most of us find it difficult
to express this anxiety, which increases
every time we are faced with the dilemma
of correcting some piece of misinforma-
tion given by “sir” without undermining
the child’s faith in him.
In the last few years there has been a
great deal of overdue improvement in
the material status of teachers. But
during the same period has there been a
corresponding improvement in the quality
of those joining the profession? Many
older members of it feel doubtful about
this, and so do many thoughtful people
who observe the effects of school on
their children.
It is difficult to find references in the
official statements that appear in the
Press from time to time to any sort of
philosophy of education lying behind the
activities of the Education Department,
the Public Service Board and the
Teachers’ Federation. The public may
be forgiven, therefore, if it gathers that
the principal aims in view are these: to
provide more buildings, more teachers
and higher salaries.
No one would deny that it is important
to provide more buildings and more
teachers, though the question of higher
salaries is more complicated. The danger
lies in assuming, as we are all being
encouraged to assume, that these things
in themselves ensure the excellence of an
educational system.
To take only one of these aims: the
provision of more teachers. We are re-
peatedly being fold that we are gravely
short of teachers and shall continue to be
short of teachers for some time. We
should, therefore, from the point of view
of mere quantity, expect the department
to be doing its utmost to seek out and
use every individual immediately available
for effective teaching. There should be
no classes of 50 or 60 children while
good material lies idle. But is the depart-
ment really making a serious attempt to
use material ready to its hand?
Far more important than the mere
number of teachers, however, is the
quality of teachers. To this problem
education authorities seem reluctant to
state their attitude.
The Public Service Board does indeed
lay down certain minimum requirements
for admission to the Government teach-
ing-service, but it is hard to discover any
consistency in its methods of enforcing
them. This does not mean that each case
is judged on its merits ; far from it. For
applicants who wish to join the service
from outside are required to make stereo-
typed answers to stereotyped questions
on a printed form and are given no oppor-
tunity to present any special evidence of
their qualifications. Neither are they
invited to demonstrate their practical
ability by conducting a test-lesson under
supervision.
The minimum requirements are as fol-
lows :
1. Applicants must have reached a
general level of secondary education of
at least (!) the standard of university
matriculation.
Why, then, have candidates within the
last few years been admitted to teachers’
colleges who have failed to reach matricu-
lation standard after more than one
attempt? Are people in other professions
allowed two or three attempts to satisfy a
minimum requirement? lam told that
this can no longer happen and that the
candidate must at least scrape through
his Leaving Certificate with four B’s be-
fore he can enter a teachers’ college. But
there seems to be no proposal to dispense
with the services of teachers who went
through colleges after failing to matricu-
late beforehand.
2. Applicants must have successfully
completed a course of training of not less
than a year at a recognised teachers’
college.
When, then, is it possible for candi-
dates to be “conditionally certificated”
and sent out to teach when they have
failed in all their college examinations?
3. As an alternative to the teachers’-
college course applicants must possess a
satisfactory certificate from a Govern-
ment Education Department in any
British community, together with
evidence of at least six years’ practical
experience as a teacher in Government-
controlled schools.
The interpretation of this clause
appears to be somewhat vague, but what
strikes the outsider most is the exclusive
emphasis on Government schools. Is it
really supposed that it was impossible in
the past and is impossible now to be
properly educated without the aid of
Government schools? How on earth
did John Stuart Mill manage? Or
Elizabeth the First? Or Bertrand Rus-
sell? Or Sir Howard Florey?
No doubt the aim of these require-
ments is to keep unsuitable people out of
the profession. But there is plenty of
evidence to show that a teacher may
have one or all of these requirements and
still be unsuitable in any real educa-
tional sense. There are, for instance,
still too many teachers who “make you
feel a fool in front of the class if you say
you don’t understand.” There are top
many teachers who have modern methods
and up-to-date gadgets at their disposal,
but are too lazy to use them. There are
too many teachers who drone through
an out-of-date textbook year after year
because they have made no effort to
keep abreast of their subject. It is a safe
plan, it gets children through examina-
tions. Why bother to alter it?
All these teachers fulfil (1), (2) and/or
(3) above, but it is doubtful whether they
ought to be in the teaching profession
at all.
But if the minimum requirements do
not always succeed in keeping out the un-
suitable teacher, they have been spectacu-
larly successful in keeping out highly
suitable teachers for the wrong reasons.
During the war, for example, when
teachers were even harder to come by,
the department rejected, on the ground
that he had no teachers’-college diploma,
a brilliant exponent of his subject who
had already been for 12 years a professor
at a Dominion university. He spent the
war counting eggs for the Egg Board
and afterwards was given a university
appointment.
On the same ground the department
has also rejected a Master of Arts
(honors) with nearly eight years’ teaching
experience to Leaving Certificate
standard, and with valuable experience
outside teaching in a field where a know-
ledge of mfn and affairs is essential to
success. And again, on the same ground,
one of the most highly successful teachers
of English in N.S.W. for the last 20
years or so is also automatically de-
barred from Government service. One
wonders what would happen if Einstein
were to present himself suddenly as a
teacher of physics. Does all this make
sense when it is a notorious fact among
headmasters that many of their raw
recruits from colleges can scarcely spell?
The whole trouble is, of course, that,
as the concrete expression of any effective
philosophy of education, the minimum
requirements are worse than useless. They
are not by any means a guarantee that a
suitable person is in the classroom teach-
ing your child, and they are known to
keep suitable persons out. In the light
of recent revelations about shoddy school
textbooks, it is doubtful whether a
teachers’-college diploma is any longer a
guarantee even of fitness to dispense
simple information. For, presumably,
many of these textbooks have been writ-
ten and the mistakes in them passed over
and perpetuated in classrooms by people
who have attended teachers’ colleges.
Until some vigorous attempt is made
to assess the quality of the would-be
teacher and his motives in entering the
profession before he enters a college and
again before he leaves it, the amount of
chaff in the profession will remain large
in proportion to the wheat. Incidentally,
one college which asked its students re-
cently why they wanted to be teachers
received the answer: “Because you get
long holidays.”
There is no guarantee, unfortunately,
that the chaff will be eliminated by mak-
ing the profession more comfortable from
a material point of view. The signs are
that the reverse is happening. For nice
clean hands, good pay, superannuation,
long holidays, security of tenure and the
rest of it can attract the unfit as well as
the fit. These things are not irresistible
attractions to the Hillarys and Tensings
of life ; and that the profession contains
its Hillarys and Tensings of the spirit is
not due to the fact that the Public Service
Board has sought them out.
The only real test of a good teacher is
what emerges from the intimate child-
teacher relationship that develops day-
by-day in the classroom. If a man loves
children and has acquired the necessary
knowledge, he will learn to teach only by
teaching, as all good teachers’-college
lecturers have pointed out.
All the talk about green blackboards,
pretty furniture, “project methods,” “co-
operative research,” “self-expression”
and whatnot is mere claptrap unless the
motives are sound and the love for child-
ren is paramount. One suspects at times
that people who use this jargon are more
interested in expressing themselves than
anything else, and use the child as a kind
of guinea-pig.
And, moreover, many of the teaching
methods now hailed as novel were taken
as a matter of course at the council
school I had the good fortune to attend
in England more than 25 years ago.
Methods and equipment are just as good
as the man who uses them —and no more.
Unless the community as a whole be-
gins to take some interest in this ques-
tion and demand some definition of the
genuine purpose of education, there is no
hope of any real improvement in our
intellectual standards. We shall continue
to turn out our annual quotas of
examination candidates who know a little
about a lot of things and nothing very
well. Many of these children, if they
were asked why they go to school, would
probably answer: “So that we can earn
a living when we grow up.” The spirit
of high adventure in which a five-year-
old sets out on his school journey sinks
all too often to this level.
It should not be beyond the collective
wisdom of experienced men and women
in all sections of the community to see
that Australian children get the kind of
teachers they deserve so much to have.
SAILORS AND SOBRIQUETS
By J. E. MACDONNELL
THE confusing complexity of naval
terms is probably why few non-
naval writers (C. S. Forester ex-
cepted) tackle the Service as a
subject.
“Commander” is an actual rank—three
rings—and he is carried as the captain’s
deputy in cruisers and above. Normally
his province is the seamanship efficiency
of the upper-deck. Also in big ships is
the first-lieutenant, his area the mess-decks
and such. In destroyer and below the
first-lieutenant corresponds to the com-
mander in cruiser or battleship—that is
second-in-command, with, added to
seamanship, responsibility to the captain
for gunnery efficiency on his slop-chit.
t-. . • c , , _
Ihen again, a captain of a destroyer
can be, and usually is, a commander.
This eanfain business is even more mn
ims captain business is even more con-
fusing than the incongruity of having a
ship’s commander not, in fact, its com-
mander. Every man-of-war has a
captain, whether he be junior sub-
lieutenant or four-ringed captain—the
latter termed a post-captain. And every
captain of a ship in commission, regard-
less of actual rank, is entitled to a pipe
when he boards another warship. I
have seen a four-ringed captain of a
15in. battleship received on board with
the traditional pipe, and, following him,
a Reserve acting-temporary sub-lieutenant,
captain ot an air-sea-rescue launch, also
Officers of foreign warships are piped
aboard, but, apart from the reigning
British monarch, no other officer of an-
other service, nor a civilian, no matter
how exalted his status, is entitled to the
bosun’s shrilled welcome.
The übiquitous pipe is quite a difficult
instrument to master. Strictly speaking,
the four-inch silvered whistle is a “bosun s
call,” and its use aboard English ships
goes back to the days of the Crusades
in 1248. There are ten different calls
laid down for its use, ranging from the
long, trilling call, “hands to dinner,”
which lasts for 60 seconds, to the eight-
second monotone blast, called the still,
which brings all hands to attention when
colors are hoisted in the morning or when
another warsh.p passes.
~ 11 18 do “W £ul * f serving in
the present Navy could actually blow all
ca ii_ t rprnprn K Pr onp black-bearded
10 c f Jis ; 1 remember one black bearded
g! ant °f a chief-bosun s-mate aboard the
T . 1; . , Mediterranean before
Australia in the Mediterranean before
I* l6 war who was a joy to hear. He is
the only man I ever met able to master the
whole range. Hearing an atom-age
bosun’s-mate piping aboard a destroyer
the other day was like listening to a
cross between tram-brakes and a tin-
kettle.
Not generally known is the fact that
the Pope rates from the British Navy
a Royal salute of 21-guns—he being
sovereign of the Vatican State.
Executive officers are the only ones not
outwardly distinguished. All others have
their branch revealed by colored strips
of cloth between the gold rings—white
for paymaster, purple for engineer, scarlet
for the surgeon, and so on. The seaman
So that an executive officer, in, say, the
gunnery branch, must be familiar with
a p the vastly complicated equipment of
a battleship’s gunnery innards—gear
which allows for the: roll, .yaw'and pitch
of the ship, e e y p ,
of flight of shells, distance from the
difference in time’ taken
. (he electric flring . cur rent in gettins
£ rom t he director to A-turret on the
f oc vi e an d Y-turret on the quarterdeck
— an£ j must be master, as well, of that
other complex science, seamanship, which
requires him to handle a 12,000-ton
cruiser at 30 knots, shoot the sun ana
stars, secure the ship to anchor, buoy
or pier, and execute the other multi
tudinous duties of seamanship ranging
from lowering a boat in a seaway to
streaming paravanes from the stem ot
mine-sweeping floa s from the slam.
Anticipating that curling lip or uw
engineer, may I hasten to add that never
’ d y than those of the
were words truer man UIUS.C
steam-man’s emphatic belief The
§ with all her guns j s no
, without eneines to well
g et her there!”
Among unofficial sobriquets, the
p hy S ical-training-instructor is the “muscle
bosun” • the sick-bay tiffie, “number-
njne bosun” • and the ship’s chaplain,
“ s j n bosun.”’ “Tanky” sees the fresh-
water tanks filled; the “Crusher,” member
Q f the ship’s police, sees discipline «n-
-forced and sometimes crown-aud-
anchor boards confiscated. The “Buffer’’
is the chief-bosun’s-mate; “Jimmy,
“James,” “One,” “Number One,” is the
first-lieutenant. If you want to be really
salty forget the “skipper,” or “Old Man,
and refer to him as “The Owner”—Pt*
saltier still, “The Driver.”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 6, 1954
Yol 75—No. 3856
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P, R Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521 ;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
WOLF-CRY IN ASIA
The Vietminh forces which have infiltrated down from
the north through Laos have obviously been able to get
there because the French, who supposedly have
200,000 troops in Indo-China, have been unable
to stop them. A few thousand strong, they have taken
control of northern Laos and the capital of that State,
have captured Thathek on the Mekong River (which
forms the border between Laos and Siam); and before
the weekend they were pushing still farther south.
They have put all the territory in Laos which touches
the Burmese border in a pocket, as well as half the
Indo-China area which touches the Siamese border.
They hold all the land along the Chinese border north
of the Red River. On the coast the French now hold
only the Red River delta, with Haiphong and Hanoi,
opposite Hainan Island, and another short strip from
the level of captured Thathek to Hue further south.
The attack, of course, is stark aggression. It is
not the product of native impetus, but of Moscow,
which trained its leaders, organised its plans and,
through its satellite, China, or directly, armed the
movement and egged it on. It is in fact a section of the
War of the World Revolution just as much as was the
surge southward of Mao’s forces equipped with
material illegally seized by the Russians in Man-
churia in defiance of a solemn agreement with the
Western Allies, as the Korean war, as the risings of
Kurdish rebels from time to time in Persia, as the
Afghan incursions over the Pakistan border, the
encouragement of African insurgence and of the
rivalry of black against white, the attempted revolution
in British Guiana and the operations of Communist
parties all over the world.
It is not novel—the rebels did almost the same
thing last year and then disappeared into the jungle,
but this does not mean that it may not amount to
more this year. In the fly-by-night method of war
practised by the Communists anything may happen
any day or night—or nothing at all. It is Lenin’s ebb-
and-flow tactic for creating chaos “so that the Com-
munist party may take charge” when the legitimate
owners of assailed territory are unable to cope with
the confusion, applied to Armageddon,
The road through Laos is, of course, the road
from the Chinese border to Siam, to Malaya; in fact
to Indonesia and Australia. It is for that reason that
the American Government, through Mr. Dulles, has
not been slow to issue a warning that, though the
Communist advance is not a matter for panic, the
intervention of Communist China would produce
prompt retaliation from the United States. Inter-
vention at present by the greater Western Allies on
behalf of France may be unnecessary. Indeed, it might
be welcomed by the Communists as providing an
example for Asia to contemplate of the eagerness of the
West to express its native “imperialism” in the Orient.
It has been made clear, however, that any addition of
Chinese aid, which is already all-important to the
Vietminh movement (though furtive), will bring swift
action, just as renewal of hostilities in Korea would
mean the extension of the war to China and any other
adjacent territory from which aggression comes.
What is realised only by a few is that the war
conditions of the world today are entirely different
from those which preceded any other great clash. His-
tory will certainly say that Europe drifted into war in
1914 on the raft of its own panic. World War II was
not the result of a deliberate plan for involving all
nations in a holocaust. It was begun as an event which
its half-demented promoters believed could be
localised to Poland and some other small countries
marked down for ravage.
If World War 111 comes it will be different. It
will be the result of a carefully planned project
engineered by experts who will have no doubt about
its nature and extent, since they will only enter on it
on the basis that its purpose is world revolution and
tint behind it are the prepared resources which can be
reckoned as necessary for its success. It will have
bken estimated for, munitioned and manned in the
safie way as any large-scale building operation. It
wi\ not be just a fire which has been intended to
bufi a paddock and run away from those who lighted
it. It will be controlled by men who have dug over
and tested the field of conquest and who have plans
and necifications drawn to the last nut or bullet. And
became such an outbreak must be long in preparation,
and tie weakening of the Western nations to make
them qsy to attack is as much a part of the skilled
plan a the attack itself, it can be expected that not
the greyest contribution to victory will lie in the effici-
NEXT BLOW?
ency with which the prospective aggressors are able to
use the technique of false-alarm through such opera-
tions as the seasonal ones of Indo-China. They want
nothing better than that the world should become so
accustomed to Warlike disturbances which end in the
•_j •. ... , c ~ . ...
wind that it will regard the opening of the real thing
when it comes with an uninterested eye. Moscow
has not forgotten the fable of the shepherd who cried
“Wolf!”
Power of the States
On the night of the Gwydir by-election, when the
count had proceeded far enough to show what the final
result would be, Dr. Evatt complained that the Gov-
eminent had won the seat on State issues which should
never have been allowed to intrude into a Federal
by-election. Logically he was no doubt right. But
politics is not a question of logic, and man is not a
logical animal—which possibly explains why Dr. Evatt
conveniently forgot that only eight months previously
members of his party were boasting that they had won
four State elections on Federal issues and that he him-
self had spoken of the Federal Government being up
foi judgment at the various State elections.
Probably the basic reason why “Labor” was able
to fight and win State elections on issues which had
nothing to do with State politics, but merely amounted
to cashing-in on the temporary unpopularity of the
Menzies-Fadden partnership was the electors’ lack of
understanding of the real functions of the State and ,
Federal Parliaments. Nothing else can adequately
explain how a State Government with a record of mis-
management, waste and extravagance on the scale of
the Cahills could be returned with an increased —•
almost a record—majority as a result of a campaign
which consisted almost entirely of abuse of the Federal
Government.
The width of the field covered by the authority
of the States does not seem to be generally recognised.
As has been said here before:—
c . . .
jSC
are State courts. Hospitals, despite Common-
wealth subsidies, are a State responsibility ; so
are the registration of doctors and nurses, the
administration of health regulations, the control
of infectious diseases. Marriages are contracted
and dissolved under State Acts ; burial of the
dead is governed by State laws, ... ,
Home-owners pay rates to municipal auth-
onties which derive their powers from State
Local-Government Acts ; tenants pay rents fixed
by State Governments, which also have abso-
lute authority over prices. All the railways in
Australia, with the exception 'of the East-West
i" J, h Jr. rsssi r«w.v°et l 6 ch N :i h ;
of thorn would liko to pist tho re.pon.ibilitjr
over to the Commonwealth ; road transport,
where it i» not strangled altogether, is regulated
by the States. Laws governing the control of
of mining are State laws—-the Joint Coal Board
owes its existence and authority to an agree-
ment between the New South Wales and Com-
monwealth Governments—and State authorities
lay down the rules which govern working con-
ditions in factories, the speed-limit on roads,
the issue of dog-, driving- and liquor-licences,
the height of buildings, the depth of graves, the
width of footpaths and the length of bathing-
costumes.
This by no means exhausts the activities of State
Governments which touch intimately the daily life of
every citizen; yet for all that it is Canberra that
springs most readily to mind when the average person
thinks of “the Government.” In this he is en-
couraged by the politicians themselves. “Labor,”
despite its holding office in five of the six States, doesn’t
believe in State Governments at all: its policy is
they should be wiped out, to be replaced by an array
of glorified provincial councils with a Central Govern-
ment at Canberra. For the present the plan seems to
be in cold-storage, but in New South Wales the same
A.L.P. bosses give the orders to Dr. Evatt and Premier
Cahill alike.
But it isn’t only “Labor” that is to blame for the
decline in interest in State Governments. With a few
notable exceptions State Parliamentarians of all parties
seem content to accept the role of minor players, even
to the extent of regarding State Houses as a stepping-
stone to Federal politics. So much is this the case that
post-war Federal Parliaments have included no fewer
than 48 one-time State members, many of them men
of high qualities whom the States could ill afford to
lose and who have not been replaced by men of equal
calibre.
In comparison with Canberra, State Parliaments
get little space in the Press, and although the year just
closed was exceptional in that respect, as the Sydney
Parliament, for one, received more publicity than it
had been given in the previous 10 years, 95 per cent, of
it was scarcely calculated to enhance the prestige of
State Parliaments.
Public apathy towards the State Parliaments is
all the more to be deplored when it is remembered
that the States are sovereign Powers to a far greater
degree than is the Commonwealth. The Federal Par-
liament possesses only those powers conceded to it
under the Constitution ; the State possesses all powers
not expressly excluded. What this really means has
very recently been demonstrated by two Acts of the
Sydney Parliament —the Dog-collar Act and the Press-
gag. Both are under challenge, but they illustrate the
tremendous power that resides in the State legislatures.
Neither measure could have been introduced into the
Federal Parliament, yet the Cahills were able to gag
them through.
Possibly this very fact may serve to awaken the
people of New South Wales, at any rate, to the import-
ance of taking an interest in the doings of their State
Parliament. Heedless of its power for good, they may
be aroused by a realisation of its power for evil —tq
assail liberties that Canberra cannot touchy


PLAIN ENGLISH
Europe and Unity
One of the greatest obstacles to the suc-
cess of the Berlin Conference will be the
failure to complete the arrangements of
the European Defence Community. The
situation compels the Western Allies to
negotiate with a united Communist bloc
under a grave disadvantage and with
the threat of United States withdrawal
from Europe hanging over their heads.
None of the Continental States in-
volved —France, Italy, West Germany,
Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg—
has yet completed the ratification of the
E.D.C. plan. Indeed, both France and
Italy, the major Powers concerned, seem
to be too far in the clutches of their own
disturbed internal politics to even
approach the matter. Italy has its large
immense internal Communist and
extreme-Left bloc working treacherously
with the Soviet Union to prevent fruition
of the scheme. France has its natural
reluctance to the rearming of Germany
to deal with, plus the results of a cunning
and intensive propaganda by the Soviet
agencies. But it is certain that the posi-
tion will have to be faced at once in the
light of warnings by both the United
States and Canada.
Mr. Dulles in his speech to the
National Press Club on December 21
said that, though no Government had
voted against the E.D.C. proposal, the
day was coming when “non-action would
be equivalent to adverse action, ’ since,
under the mutual security legislation of
1953, much of the mutual military sup-
port of Europe was based on the theoretic
existence of the E.D.C. in working-order.
The basic strategy of Nato, he said,
was to defend the whole of the E.D.C.
area, including Western Germany right
up to advanced positions, but this was
founded on the assumption that Ger-
many would take part in the common
defence on an adequate scale. But, he
added, the United States was certainly
not prepared to defend Germany while
the Germans sat by and took no part in
their own rescue and “acted the part of
mere observers.”
The Germans, of course, are quite
ready to take part in their own defence
and that of Western Europe. They have
two bills ready to pass through the Ger-
man Parliament, one setting out the
status and rights of volunteers and the
other establishing military conscription
after the basic units of the German sec-
tion of the European Army have been
created —it is to consist initially of
500,000 men. The Government has
announced that the raising of these forces
will begin “the moment the last nation
involved has ratified the European De-
fence Community scheme.”
Unfortunately the problem is (as Mr.
Dulles said) not only that of providing
German contingents, but of providing
them in a form reasonably acceptable to
Germany’s neighbors and of permanently
sealing the breach between France and
Germany, a matter which the United
States Government believes to take pre-
cedence over actually getting German
divisions into Nato. Yet none of
the alternatives offering seems to fully
satisfy the needs of the situation, and
all seem “to ignore a factor that can-
not be ignored —time.”
It is all very well to say optimistically
that if E.D.C. idea fails something else
might be done. One of the things that
might be done if France proves too
resistant to compromise is that Western
Germany might of necessity have her
resources switched into the lap of the
Soviet Union —an end towards which
the East Germans are wooing its Gov-
ernment. And the French would have
reason to like that even less than they
like the idea of brigading themselves
under rigidly conceived safeguards with
a former enemy.
The British Commonwealth has a firm
interest in the whole matter. If Europe
cannot effectively unite, then the defence
of civilisation seems to be handed over
to the British-speaking peoples with such
allies as they can acquire outside the
Continent.
"Honors"
Every year the grants of “honors”
announced on New Year’s Day (as on
other days) become more bewildering
and less inspiring. There are, of course,
men whom everybody delights to see
honored, but the company in which they
are decorated usually detracts from the
value of their distinctions.
Nobody would doubt that Air-Marshal
Richard Williams, Director of Civil Avia-
tion and a pioneer of the fighting air-
forces, or Dan McVey, of Common-
wealth Steel and lately Director of Posts
and Telegraphs, or Walter Thomas Merri-
man, the veteran studmaster, or Wing-
Commander Wackett, pioneer of Aus-
tralian aircraft design, or Mr. W. J,
Allison have earned their knighthoods
if they want them; but they have
to wear them in company with small-
city mayors, with superannuated com-
edians, jockeys and cricketers and negro
chieftains who have to be conciliated,
not to mention the battalion of assistant-
secretaries in United Kingdom Govern-
ment departments who receive them as a
matter of course when they reach a cer-
tain stage of promotion.
The flood of minor “distinctions”
carrying ribbons and medals has be-
come generally of such a nature that
they are almost meaningless. The C.B.E.
(Civil) has become the hallmark of a
comparatively senior civil servant who
does not necessarily have to do anything
to obtain it but have his name drawn
out of a hat at a certain period of his
career. He becomes the decorative equal
of the fighting brigadier who earned a
military version the hard way in World
War 11. This year it appears that the
president of the N, S. Wales Liberal
Association has qualified with four years
spent issuing windy statements. 0.8.E.’s
and M.B.E.’s on the civil side have be-
come the meat of the minor civil servant
and the charity-worker and limelighting
committeeman. Some of them don’t
recognise merit and some do.
In the services, also, peace-time awards
have become more or less routine. Only
occasionally in either military or civil
branches is any imagination shown, as
when an 0.8. E. was awarded to J. W.
Scrymgeour, the Shorthorn-breeder of
FINANCE MINISTERS '
PROBLEM—page 14
Netherby (Q.), a soldier of the First
A.I.F. whose courage and ability to over-
come the effects of a disastrous war-
wound (which left him blind in his youth)
has been an inspiration and example to
the whole Commonwealth and a legend
in the cattle industry.
The most remarkable revelation of the
1954 New Year honors list, as of all
honors lists, is how much merit seems to
reside in the public service and how few
people there are outside committees and
Government departments who are worth
even the smallest gaud.
Literature, Art and the Law this year
were almost barren of virtue. Hardly a
cross, a medal or a ribbon among the lot
in Australia.
And the Rain Came
The old year went out with men on the
land and town water authorities crying
for rain from Arnhem Land to the
Riverina. The new year came in with
the cries answered, almost the whole
eastern half of the continent getting a
good drenching.
One of the hardest-hit districts was
the normally lush North Coast of N.S.W.,
where no useful rain had fallen for five
or six months. The pastures there, which
must have plenty of rain to retain their
lushness, failed, and farm and town
water-supplies suffered. This area always
will suffer in drought, long or short,
while the inhabitants continue their old
bad habits of not conserving either fodder
or water. Not that the bad habits are
confined to the N.S.W. North Coast;
they’re more pronounced there, since
there is ample scope for conservation, but
the normal seasons encourage slackness.
Every time a drought strikes, the lack
of fodder-supplies becomes tragically
apparent. By everything short of com-
pulsory legislation Governments, allied
with financial houses, agricultural
societies, the Press and radio, have tried
to make conservation part of farming
practice. So far, from the broad national
aspect, all their efforts have been vain.
But a time is coming when a world popu-
lation crying for food, and the pressure
of the growing Australian population, will
put an end to haphazard farming, and it
is not hard to visualise a future when a
landholder will be compelled by law to
provide for the inevitable bad season
from the bounty of the good.
Meantime, comes 1954 with the land
saved by rain, with bushfires quelled
(though still burning in West Australia
when this was written), with a heavy
wheat yield, with the flocks saved and
wool prices high, with an assured dairy
season, with employment ah a peak, and
all the land preparing to welcome its
Queen.
All that was needed was the rain to
make a splendid beginning of a new year.
The N.S.W. Milk Farce
The farce of the Sydney milk-price
inquiry came to a sorry end with the
close of 1953, and what passes for a
Minister for Health in N.S.W. wept
crocodile-tears in telling mothers of
families and all others who pink milk
that the stuff would go on being 2d. to
3d, a pint dearer than anywhere else
because the Milk Board said so.
Perhaps it was symptomatic of the
shallow public outlook that far more fuss
was kicked up over the availability or
otherwise of bottled beer. Sydney beer,
at 2s. 6d. a bottle (260 z. as compared with
the 20oz. in a pint-bottle of milk), was
scarce, and a big trade was done in inter-
state beer at anything from 3s. 6d. to
4s. 6d. It is very pertinent to remark
that a city which cheerfully pays these
prices for beer ought not to complain
about lid. a pint for milk.
But that isn’t the point. This Milk
Board inquiry was a blatant political
and bureaucratic stunt to sidestep an
awkward development. People who heard
the Minister announce that milk prices
wouldn’t be reduced forgot that the
original proposition was to increase them.
It began in the spring when Milk
Board chairman Ferguson, one of those
stalwart defenders of the workers’
rights who finished up in a good job, said
that the customary reduction of Id. a
pint would not be made in spring be-
cause, if it was, the price would have to
be upped again next winter. This was
quickly followed by a demand from milk-
producers for another 6d. a gallon. The
board thereupon went through the
motions of inquiring into the demand.
Rightly fearing that this preluded an
increase, enough of the people made
enough of a fuss to startle Minister
O’Sullivan, who ordered the board to
hold a public inquiry. This was nothing
less than a rort. Those who attempted
to give evidence favoring reduced retail
prices found that Mr. Ferguson, as chair-
man of the inquiry, wanted to argue the
point with them, and if he didn’t like
what they said he ordered them out.
The whole basis of the inquiry was
wrong. It set out to prove that farmers
couldn’t take less than the 3s. Bd. a gallon
average they are getting. Nobody advo-
cated this. What the public wanted to
know, and still wants to know, is how
does milk for which the producer gets
3s. Bd. cost the consumer 7s. 4d.? And
it particularly wants to know how much
the Milk Board takes, what the Milk
Board does that couldn’t be done by the
existing authorities such as Mr. Graham’s
Agriculture Department and Mr. O’Sulli-
van’s Health Department, who pays for
the thousands of pounds-worth of adver-
tising the Milk Board buys, and
whether, as the inquiry plainly suggests,
Mr. Ferguson is a law unto himself and
superior to Parliament?
The spectacle of Mr. O’Sullivan bleat-
ing that milk was too dear and at the
same time declaring that he “had to
accept the Milk Board’s decision” shows
N.S.W. pretty clearly who is running the
show.
Bankstown Council
The municipal year opens in Sydney with
scandal-broth still boiling furiously. At
the Sydney City Council the lid, thanks'
to the determined efforts of Cahill and
Co., is still on the saucepan, but at Banks-
town, one of the outer suburbs and some-
time Assembly seat of Admiral McGrrrr,
it has been lifted by the report of a
local-government inspector, Mr. J. H.
Hunt, who was appointed some time ago
to inquire into certain aspects of the in-
ternal organisation, management and
accounts of the council.
His report mentioned three important
matters which seem to call for explana-
tion, and in all of them the name of the
council’s chief - assistant electrical -
engineer, Mr. J. Fitzpatrick, appears.
The first concerns a number of electrical
appliances —refrigerators, stoves, wash-
ing-machines and electric mixers—which
seem to have been sold in a rather un-
businesslike manner. Although amounts
as high as £261 were involved, all items
were paid for in cash; several of the
contractors named on the dockets have
denied knowledge of the purchases, Mr.
Hunt reports ; no signatures appear on
the dockets; all dockets were written by
G. Watson of the council staff; 10 p.c.
discount was allowed on each item;
some of the items have been traced
to Jay and Jay’s, a Bankstown store now
owned by J. Fitzpatrick and his brother
W. F. Fitzpatrick, and which was owned
in 1950 (according to Mr. Hunt) by
W, F. Fitzpatrick and another party.
Mr. Hunt’s report says that he is not
satisfied with explanations given by Fitz-
patrick and Watson; that he feels the
appliances were made available to Jay and
Jay’s at a discount to which they were
not entitled and at a time when such
goods were in short supply.
Of 148 electric motors valued at £3Oll
10s. purchased and sold by Fitzpatrick on
behalf of the council, but without its
specific approval, Mr. Hunt reports:
I am unable to accept Mr. Fitzpatrick’s
explanation and... .the transactions must
be viewed with grave suspicion. The actual
source of supply of the motors, which were
largely unbranded, has not yet been ascer-
tained. This fact, coupled with the pecu-
liar method alleged to have been used in
financing the deal and the use of fictitious
names, could well lead to an inference that
the motors were either stolen or black-
market goods.
The third item in the report deals with
the council’s purchases of blue-metal.
“Most unsatisfactory,” is Mr. Hunt’s de-
scription of an arrangement whereby the
council, instead of making direct pur-
chases, bought blue-metal from R. Fitz-
patrick and Co., who bought it from Blue
Metal and Gravel Pty., Ltd. R. Fitzpat-
rick is another brother of the council’s
Fitzpatrick.
Mr. Hunt’s report was due to be tabled
at the Bankstown Council meeting last
night. Mr. J. Fitzpatrick has protested
that “the report as it appears is not a
true indication of the actual happenings.
The Davis Cup Blunder
Just when sundry people were criticis-
ing our ’teenagers as being short of enter-
prise, ambition and a few other things, a
couple of nineteen-year-old lads won
for Australia the greatest prize in world
tennis —the Davis Cup. And they did it
in face of what seemed a determined
attempt by older people —in the form of
the L.T.A.A. selectors—to lose it.
While nothing can detract from the
singles wins of Lewis Hoad and Ken
Roswall in the final matches of the
nothing can exonerate the selectors in-
credible blunder in putting Hartwig in
with Hoad in the doubles. Irrespective of
whether or not Hoad and Rosewall or
Rose and Hartwig could have beaten
Trabert and Seixas in the doubles, the
choice of the selectors simply handed
U.S.A. the doubles on a platter. No
wonder the Americans smiled and
looked very cheerful” when they heard
the good (for them) news.
The blunder is all the more inexcus-
able when it is realised that in tennis,
above all other games, a pair playing
doubles must be thoroughly familiar with
each other’s play and work together like
oiled machinery. It threw on young
Hoad, and then on young Rosewall, a
responsibility which might have daunted
less courageous and less determined
youths, and it is to them both, and not to
the selectors, that praise must go for the
triumphant result.
It is over now, and the trophy ours
for another year. But the L.T.A.A.,
basking in the glory of the win, must not
think the blunder is forgiven. Youth has
enough to do as it is to retrieve the
mistakes of the old.
Beria
Lavrenti Beria, destroyed by the
horrible system which he helped to
create, could console himself at the last
that he was sharing a lethal experience
with some of his most illustrious com-
patriots. A right-hand man of his
fellow-Georgian, Stalin, he it was who
did most to create the convenient regula-
tions of 1934, which were used to exact
a confession from him and condemn ium
to execution without public trial.
It must have been a great temptation
to the Kremlin to make a public exhi-
bition of him before the world, as was
done with his distinguished colleagues
Bucharin, Radek, and Rakoysky, but
charges of espionage for a foreign Power
have become so hackneyed that they are
apt to produce derision rather than
respect, and there would have been more
than a little political danger in Russia
itself in giving one of the most cunning
brains of his generation and a known
chief apostle to the Supreme Saint Shim
the chance to defend himself. His
“crimes” —the charges were absurd on
their own face—were therefore letter
related and his confession more piety
produced after his mortal remains had
been stowed away inanimate unyer the
(i Continued on next page]


paving-stones of the Lubianka Prison
cellars.
Beria was a brutal, heartless Asiatic,
his hands steeped above the elbow in
innocent blood, his record one of evil
treachery, of perfidy to allies and
criminal indifference to the laws of pub-
lic morality, difficult to parallel outside
the Soviet Union in modern times. His
only significance as a historic figure is
that he adds one more example of how
the supposedly democratic, tolerant and
peace-loving political system of Com-
munism works. It is a system in which
government is by conspiracy and every
night is a Night of the Long Knives.
The dictators of the Kremlin might well
inscribe over its portals the saying of
one of Congress’s characters that “when
one parts with one’s cruelty one parts
with one’s power.” Among Commissars
it is always a case of the devil take the
hindmost.
Beria’s disappearance makes little dif-
ference to the world. It merely means
that one set of bloodstained opportunists
bent upon securing world domination
through cunning and trickery, and, if
necessary, the shedding of innocent blood
on a wholesale scale, has been replaced
in control of the U.S.S.R. by another
gang with the same objectives, some of
whose members, like himself, will un-
doubtedly end by means of a bullet in
the back of the neck, the donation of
their erstwhile loyal friends.
As for the Ministers who were exe-
cuted with the ruffian, they were merely
destroyed on the same principle on which
the wives of an Indian rajah used to be
burned at his funeral or the retinues of
Egyptian kings buried with them.
POLITICAL POINTS
Nineteen-fifty-three was a year of
elections and by-elections. Four State
Governments faced the electors and half
the Senate came up for judgment. Only
in one State, Westralia, was there a
change of Government, but party
strengths were considerably altered by
the polls.
There were four Federal by-elections
—Dailey (N.S.W.), Lang (N.S.W.),
Corangamite (Vic.) and Gwydir (N.S.W.)
—but the composition of the House of
Representatives was the same at the end
of the year as at the beginning; Govern-
ment, 68 (Liberals, 51; Country-party,
17); “Labor,” 52.
The half-Senate election on May 9
saw the Government’s grip on the Upper
House reduced to a bare majority—3l to
29.
• «
N. S. Wales went to the polls on
February 14, and what should have been
a St. Valentine’s Day massacre for the
Cahills if the people had taken them at
their word and judged them on their
record was turned instead into a resound-
ing victory by the intrusion of Federal
issues—a fact not seriously disputed by
the victors. “Labor” won nine seats
from the Opposition, making the state
of parties “Labor,” 57; Independent
Labor. 1 ; Liberals, 22 ; Country party,
14.
At by-elections since then the “Labor”
vote has been reduced, but the party
representation is unchanged, except that
in Kahibah, formerly held by ex-Mines
Minister Arthur, the Government’s
nominee was defeated by an unendorsed
“Labor” candidate, T. Armstrong, who,
however, seems indistinguishable from
official “Labor” members when divisions
are called.
• •
Queensland “Labor” also benefited
from the temporary unpopularity of the
Federal Government. The Gairs on
March 7 won five seats from the Country
party and two from the Liberals, to in-
crease their majority in the State’s single
House to 25. Subsequent by-elections
have not altered the figures, which at the
year’s end were: “Labor,” 50 ; Country
party, 15 ; Liberals, 8 ; Independents, 2.
• •
In the South Australian general elec-
tion, also held on March 7, Playford’s
Liberal-Country League, in office since
1933 as a party and since 1938 under
Playford, lost two seats to “Labor,” but
remained in power. There are 21 mem-
bers on the Government side; “Labor”
has 14, and there are four Independents.
• •;
Westralia held its general election on
the same day as New South Wales.
Hawke’s “Labor” party picked up two
seats from McLarty’s Liberal-Country
League and two from Independents to
emerge with a bare majority of two in a
House of 50. Party strengths: “Labor,”
26; L.-C.L., 15; Country party, 9.
« •
Tasmania’s 50-50 Assembly lasted out
another year, although the resignation
of Independent member Wedd made a
general election seem likely. However,
a countback of Wedd’s preferences from
the 1950 election—the method prescribed
for filling casual vacancies in Tasmania
—resulted in the election of another In-
dependent, leaving party-strengths un-
changed at “Labor,” 15; Liberals, 14;
Independent, 1.
• •
Australia’s most over-partied Parlia-
ment went through 1953 without an
Assembly election, having just had one be-
fore the year opened. A Legislative Coun-
cil election halfway through the year—the
first under universal suffrage—just failed
to give the Cain Government a majority,
leaving it to depend for its existence on
the goodwill of two Hollway Liberals.
Just before Christmas this was more than
once stained to breaking-point. In the
Victorian Assembly present strengths
are: “Libor,” 37; Country party, 12 ;
Liberal-Country party, 11 ; Hollway
Liberals, 4; Independent Labor, 1,
The New Year has revived conjecture
about the imminence of Churchill’s re-
tirement ; Britain’s P.M. will be 80 next
November. Attlee was 71 on Sunday,
and the prophets are saying this will be
his last year as party-leader, too. They’ve
been saying that since 1945, so they’re
bound to be right some time,
• •
Only politician in the South Australian
honors list was Frank Condon, Leader
of the “Labor” Opposition in the
Legislative Council. Just another
example of the political maturity of the
S.A. Parliament compared with those of
the eastern States.
• •
“Better Loaf for Sydney” says a
“Daily Telegraph” headline. Wot, more
holidays?
• •
Last week a British organisation claimed
that 18-year-old youths were sluggish and
unambitious, and a local educational
authority took the view that ’teen-agers
were a blot on the landscape. Then in
a Sydney court appeared James Thomas
Goodsell, 18, to ask deferment of his
National Service training. He got it.
PREPARING FOR VISITORS
because, with his father ill, it had become
his responsibility to run a £lOO,OOO gar-
bage-disposal business, serving 16,000
homes, using 55 vehicles and employing
40 men. To him N.S. training would be
“just a holiday,” but the business had to
go on.
• •
Canberra is worried about how to keep
the flies down during the Royal visit.
Obviously the thing to do is call a confer-
ence, get a money-grant from the
Treasury and set up a Fly-control
Board . . .
• •
The Cain Government proposes to
give the vote in Victorian local-govern-
ment elections to everybody over 21; at
present it’s confined to ratepayers and
tenants. From that it’s but a step to com-
pulsory voting and proportional-repre-
sentation, whereupon Victoria can look
forward to the same happy state of 1,-g.
affairs as exists north of the Murray.
• •
Discovery at Myponga, near Adelaide,
of the richest uranium-ore so far found
in Australia has further stimulated in-
terest in Geiger-counters in South Aus-
tralia, already the most uranium-con-
scious State. Myponga is only 40 miles
south of Adelaide, near the point where
the Mt. Lofty Ranges slide down into St.
Vincent Gulf. The S.A. Mines Depart-
ment has issued a map showing other
regions of Archaean rocks of the type
in which the find was made. The My-
ponga area stretches from Yankalilla to
a spot near Meadows; there is a small
patch just behind Mt. Lofty, and a third
extends from Houghton to a point north-
east of Williamstown.
• •
A Melbourne paper claims that Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer Butler will
“discuss the development of Victoria’s
resources” with Premier Cain, also
“Victoria’s financial position in relation
to Federal finances.” Perhaps Cain will
offer Butler a commission to sell Vic-
torian lottery-tickets in Britain.
• •
On New Year’s Day Treasurer Fadden
announced that 12 million dollars had
been repaid to the International Monetary
Fund in reduction of the sum borrowed
by Australia a year or so ago. This is
welcome news, both for the fact that it
reduces our overseas obligations and for
the improvement in dollar-trade which it
reflects.
• •
Gwydir figures on Monday, with only
about 240 postal votes outstanding, were:
Allan (Country party) 9759, Howard
(Liberal) 3560, Kirkby (Country party)
5618, Quinn (“Labor”) 15,706. The three
Government candidates thus had a lead
of 3231, and it was just a question of
how much Allan would win by in the final
split-up.
• •
Politics plays some funny games. Re-
cently we have had the spectacle of
British Laborites protesting because a
Conservative Colonial Secretary dismissed
an African king. Now Left-winger Nye
Bevan, after writing anti-British articles
for an Egyptian newspaper, is visiting
Neguib, the Egyptian dictator.
Travel seems to have broadened
Sevan’s mind a little; perhaps a closer
view of Egypt and the Canal Zone has
given him a rush of commonsense to
the head. At a Press conference in
Cairo he is reported as saying in answer
to questions regarding British “occupa-
tion” of the Canal Zone:
There is no British occupation. Our
troops are there by agreement. If the
Egyptians don’t want to renew the agree-
ment after 1956 that is their affair.
That is substantially what the Govern-
ment has been trying to tell Bevan and
his friends for some time. Nye also told
reporters that Egypt would be better
employed trying to improve the living
standards of its people and that there
was plenty of room for improvement,
• •
J. A. Ferguson’s N.S.W. Milk Board,
after holding an inquiry into the price it
charges for milk, has decided in favor
of itself. This means that N. S. Wales
families will continue to pay a pint
for milk (lid. if bottled) compared with
Victoria, 9d.; South Australia, B£d.; Tas-
mania, Bd.; Queensland, The dif-
ference is due to the high quality of the
milk, the high cost of Socialist govern-
ment in N. S. Wales, the meanness of
N. S. Wales cows or some other cause not
yet tracked down.
• •
New Zealand’s milk price, strange to
say, went up a penny to 9d. a quart.
Allowing for currency difference, that’s
just half the Sydney price.
• •
The decisive Country-party vote in
Gwydir should reduce the likelihood of
three-cornered contests in N. S. Wales at
the Federal election, but the position in
Victoria is not so simple. It depends on
whether the Federal people can arrange
a truce between the warring parties on
the Opposition benches in the Victorian
Parliament.
• •
“This year,” remarks Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” “ship-handling in Sydney
and Melbourne was twice as fast as in
1951.” Yes, but how “fast” was it in
1951?
• •
Those, who think of Alice Springs as a
frontier town are years behind the times ;
witness this news item of what happened
when three inches of rain, followed by
bright sunshine, brought up a huge crop
of mushrooms. “Children of all ages
rushed out with buckets, tins and bags.
By lunch-time they were selling them at
3s. to 4s. a pound.”
• •
Forecasting the use of atomic energy
to generate most of Britain’s electricity
by a.d. 2000 Lord Salisbury said nobody
need have any dreams of a “sudden
bright new world.” What, flippin’ black-
ahts every winter, cock!
• •
A South Australian wool-firm director
returned from abroad to announce that
people overseas were “reacting” against
synthetic wearing-apparel because it
didn’t fulfil the claims made for it in
advertisements. All the same, the wool
industry is still faced with synthetics, and
only greater wool-production and reason-
ably priced woollen goods will hold the
world market for wool.


Socity
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
nrHE senior lady in the residential was
furious. “I’ve been here ten years,
and I’ve never lost a thing until yesterday,
when I had twelve pounds pinched—and
I think you know all about it,” she hissed
ai the newly-arrived flapper. The next-
senior lady jumped to the rescue. “ You
lost twelve pounds! You’ve never had
twelve pounds in your life,” she said;
adding, conclusively, “Not even when
the Yanks were here.”—“O.G.”
❖ ❖ *
“Whanga”; There were 136 people
killed in the rail-horror at Tangiwai. The
Napier earthquake of February 3, 1931,
the worst in New Zealand’s history, killed
255, and the total of earthquake-deaths in
the last 100 years is 284. I don’t know
the road-accident figures, but I’ve no
doubt they’re the worst of the lot. The
point seems worth making since so many
Australians seem to think that New
Zealanders are constantly being anni-
hilated by earthquakes; whereas there,
as in Australia, the citizen or traveller
has much more to fear—if he thought
"Could you oblige with a little powder , Miss Jimson? I forgot my talc."
about it—from the normal hazards of
the machine-age.
. . . . . .
“S.”: Tangiwai, where the New Zealand
railway disaster occurred, seems to have
an ominous name. It could be trans-
lated as “wailing-water,” “mourning-
water” or even “water of death.” A
tangi is the Maori funeral ceremony.
But tangiwai in the sense of “tears of
sorrow” was also the name for the most
delicate form of greenstone, the trans-
lucency of which showed in places a
marking like a teardrop,
“Jay”: Most of us have felt the excite-
ment of the oil-strike; but not so, appa-
rently, the drillers at Exmouth Gulf. One
chap asked an American driller if he was
excited about it. “I had a hunch we’d
strike it here,” he drawled. Asked “What
made you so sure?” the Yank took in the
vast monotony of barren hills and ocean,
wiped his chin, and said “Waal, you
always find it in the durndest places . .
& *
“Fair Mac”: Sydney’s Civic Fathers,
in cahoots with the Government Archi-
tect’s office, have seen fit to fill-in the
wide-spreading ornamental pool which
was the focal-point of the beautiful
sunken-garden in Hyde Park. A bare
inch of water will lie on the new job as a
sort of drip-tray for half-a-dozen
sprinklers, but visible through the water
will be a mosaic reproduction of abo-
riginal art. The idea is as phony as
tourist-boomerangs cut out with band-
saws. Abo. art is neither beautiful nor
clever; any normal child seven years of
age could do better. The original carvings,
however, are intensely interesting, inas-
much as they are the elementary art
of a Stone-Age people. But the engaging
of highly-skilled Italian craftsmen to imi-
tate such crudities is equivalent to a
proud father commissioning Norman
Lindsay to reproduce in oils Junior’s
first scrawling attempt to draw a gee-gee.
❖ ❖ *
“CA.L.”: I met him in the Army, a
haggis-chewer whose main obsession was
his nomenclature. So proud was he of his
compound surnames that he was ready to
defend their dignified air with words or
fists if remarks concerning the length of
“FitzCrackenback Dumbarton” became
too consistent. Back in civvy life I re-
marked to a Scotty workmate about this
pride of one of his countrymen. His
reply would have done “FitzCracken-
back” good to hear. Explanation was that
the prefix “Fitz” was hardly anything to
be proud about, its Scottish meaning
being “illegitimate son of” —in this case
“Crackenback.”
♦>
“Phill”; Evidently modern times have
changed the relationship of Father Christ-
mas and the growing youth. In a Mel-
bourne store a boy leaned over to Santa
and whispered in his ear. He then scooted
off —with an enraged F. Christmas in hot
pursuit. The lad’s Christmas present was
a clonking from the venerable gent. I’d
give a deal to know what was said 1
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Macnell”: Shortly a gleaming 45ft.
motor-boat, polished beyond the «th de-
gree, will be seen creaming over Sydney
Harbor—the Royal barge. The other day,
on the other side of the world, an even
more famous barge left a boathouse at
Windsor Home Park for a Greenwich
(Eng.) shipyard to be overhauled and
refitted. Known as the “Queen’s Shallop,”
this elegant 41-footer, beautifully carved
and decorated, was built in 1689. Last sur-
vivor of the old State barges once used by
Royalty on ceremonial journeys down the
Thames, she was built for Queen Mary II
hy King William 111, was used by George
V and Queen Mary well on into the
present century, and was presented to
the National Maritime Museum by
George Vin 1930. Unlike Royal Gothic’s
high-powered craft, the Queen’s Shallop is
a real barge—rowed by eight of the
Queen’s watermen in their splendid scarlet
uniforms, and steered by the Bargemaster,
who stands abaft the gorgeous canopy
under which s& or sat, the Royal pas-
sengers. Gothic’s bargemaster, of course,
handles his powered wheel in the blue
serge and brass-buttons of one of the
Royal Navy’s most proficient coxswains.
* * -
*
“Horncastle”: It used to be a disser-
tation on horses, jockeys and breeding,
but they’ve come up to date. As he
“ Life's very fickle.”
tilted me back in the chair, “Atoms,” he
said, “are queer things. Who suspected
that one day man would split invisi-
bility?” Propounded in the gleam of a
razor, this alarmed me. As he scraped
on he told me so much about the menace
of the atom that I thought it wouldn’t
be worth while to conduct any business
at all that morning; far better to spend
the day. preparing my soul. When he
turned to the right side he was devastat-
ing Monte Bello. The razor snicked my
Adam’s-apple. It didn’t seem to matter.
Woomera, uranium, thorium, fissionable,
nuclear energy, reactors, radioactivity
. . . Rutherford, Penney, Oliphant . .
and, as the razor-strokes became really
vicious, an apt quotation of dreadful
significance: “‘We are such stuff as
dreams are made on, and our little life
is rounded with a sleep.’ Do you know
who said that?” Mine was only a guess:
“Marconi,” I said, meekly. He turned his
back on me and made it sound like the
Atom-blast of Doom; “next, please!”
❖ ♦>
“Eve”: Variety, “the spice of life,” in
a park can be just rubbish. Changed my
seat in one in Sydney, and how was the
view? Strewn among the dead leaves in-
side one square yard of my bench; cigar-
ette-packets of three different brands, a
torn length of ribbon, two plugs of cotton-
wool, empty match-boxes, a corn-cure
bottle, crumpled paper-bags, the bright
label off “six yards bias binding, for
binding all raw edges,” a voting-card, re-
mains of a bread-roll, orange-peel, a
“new deodorant” carton, dead matches, a
baby’s broken dummy. On the way out
I glanced into the park’s waste-bin.
Clean and empty.
“Craiser”: Unusual occupations? A
suburban young lady, who had got a
veterinary surgeon to perform an opera-
tion on her pony, watched him for a
while, and then said, “You don’t seem at
all nervous of horses.” “Neither would
you be if you had to file a lion’s teeth,”
said the vet.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.A.K.”: The chap was hurrying to
catch a train, but he paused to snatch my
hand, shake it heartily, and shoot out
“Fancy striking you again! How y’ been
going? Can’t stop a second, but must
say thanks for that advice you gave me
’way back in ’42.” My memory for
faces being what it is, I’ve learnt to play
along in these situations and hope that
the unknown will drop some clue as to
his identity. The fellow went racing on:
“It was the turning-point. Everything
turned out just the way you said it would.
Sorry I can’t stop, but our train goes in
three minutes. Glad I bumped you—and
thanks again.” Then he was gone. Unless
he was drunk, insane, or had got the
wrong bloke, I must have made a far-
sighted prophecy in 1942. What a tragedy,
Twelve years ago, apparently, I was able
to foretell the future. Today I don’t
even know what happened in the past!
A
“Brick E.”: No confidence-man ever
worked harder on a potential victim
than my workmate Tommy did when he
tried to present every man on the job,
one after another, with one of the three
kittens his soft heart wouldn’t let him
drown. Then two little girls wandered in
on to the job. Tommy’s eyes lit up.
“Girlie,” he purred, “do you think your
mother would let you have a lovely little
kitten?” They seemed to waver. Tommy
promptly got in a brilliant piece of lau-
datory description. When he’d finished,
one of the lasses asked, “Are they little
boy cats or little girl?” There is a
lot of the George Washington in Tommy.
“They’re little girls,” he admitted. “Aw,
they’d have kittens,” the girls said as a
duet, and went on their way, “What
chance have you got?” mourned Tommy.
“Their mothers probably read ’em Marie
Stopes for bedtime stories.”
❖ ❖
“P.H.”; She is 91, and her name should
be Young. With good sight, she sees a
weekly film, is a library member, reading
belles-lettres and biographies (“No use
for love trash! ”); does exquisite wool-
work ; has never consulted a doctor, ex-
cept to have a leg set —the cause being
when, at 89, she jumped from a veranda
as being the quickest way down. She
never uses a bus or tram if she can reason-
ably walk. However, a trip to Springvale,
where is one of Victoria’s crematoria,
temporarily baffled her. It was an un-
usual hour for the infrequent train, but
she solved the transport problem. Looking
down the death-notices, she saw a funeral
was to leave that day. She joined the
mourners at the funeral-parlor, rode to
Springvale in a coach and slipped away
when they reached the graveside. She
said later that the day had been profit-
able, as she had made a “life” friend (at
91) of one of the mourners.
❖ *l* ❖
“Odette”: Round about six, waiting
near the Sydney Harbor Bridge for my
lift home, I saw a flock of birds fly in
from the northern side of the bridge, to
settle down for the night in the big More-
ton Bay fig. Evidently, however, the
leader decided it was too early to retire;
they took off around the block at speed,
via George-street, up Margaret-street and
started settling on a large neon wines-
advertisement. There squatting accommo-
dation was limited to about half of the
flock, so the other half remained air-
borne. Just across the way was another
bright neon ad., this one for Scotch
whisky. The unaccommodated birds de-
cided whisky a better drink than wine
and joined the hard school. My trans-
port arrived on the tick of 6 pm.; at
that moment all birds took off for the
old Moreton Bay. Time, gentlemen,
please?
TO THE NEW YEAR
O brave New Year !
I can’t wait to begin it.
O brave New Year
That has such people in it,
Though most are much the same as last,
I fear,
O brave New Year!
O brave New Year,
So full of good intentions!
O brave New Year,
So full of great inventions
That twelve months hence we all may
not be here,
O brave New Year!
O brave New Year,
Perhaps we’re Doubting Thomases,
But year by year
Your politician-promises,
Broken or kept, are bound to cost us
dear,
O brave New Year.
Be brave, New Year! —
Don’t pay your union-dues to
Cahill the Queer,
And should he then refuse you
The right to work, how few would weep
a tear,
O brave New Year!
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


T EST anyone should think that Aus-
tralia’s contribution to the World
Health Organisation of the United
Nations has been wasted permit me to
put their minds at ease; some, at least,
of the money has been well spent. It has
gone to prove that “a worried, unhappy
cat will go for the liquor as readily as a
“Could you change two-bob into pennies, please ?”
worried, unhappy man.” A batch of
W.H.O. experimenters in Copenhagen
discovered this by scaring cats and making
them neurotic, after which they laced the
moggies’ food with alcohol. Before long
the cats were properly on it, and, what’s
more, their liking for hard tack became
permanent. This probably explains quite
a lot of things, such as the mysterious
disappearance of the cooking-sherry
from many pantries. It also gives rise to
the thought that perhaps we are unjust
towards some of the fummies responsible
for midnight caterwauling. For if there
are feline drunks may there not also be
feline Alcoholics Anonymous? It’s an
ennobling thought that some of the toms
that make the night hideous with their
wailing are not out for the fun of it at
all, but are in reality reformed topers
helping lame cats over tiles. —“Jasby.”
»> ❖ ❖
“Sparks”: Names are not always what
they seem. In the Brisbane police-court
bored pressmen and court-staff were
listening patiently while drunks
and other minor offenders were
being dealt with. When the
orderly called “Daniel Maloney”
no one took much notice, but
all eyes fairly popped when, in
answer to the summons, a full-
blooded Chinaman stood up in
the dock.
“Kanimbla”: Recently an
Englishman, Roger de Coverley,
an accidental namesake of the
famed Addison and Steele
character, figured in Sydney
court proceedings. Also, it
would seem that C. S. Forester’s
hero, Horatio Nelson Horn-
blower (at present sailing serially
through Sydney “Sun-Herald”),
could not possibly have, with
a name like that, a counterpart
in a real man. Yet it is so.
A year or so back a Horatio
Nelson Hornblower died, an
elderly man. He had been a clerk
in a Welsh coal-firm.
£4 -tj4
“Sister Effell”; Phantom, my
patient in a plaster-of-Paris
wimple, was considerably irri-
tated by the newly-growing hair
on his shaven head, and he used
to beseech me to think of
something thin and pliable that
he could shove up between
his scalp and the plaster. One night
a bone in my corsets kept jabbing my
spare tyre, so I decided to remove it.
When I did so the answer hit me —just the
thing for Phantom! I was rewarded by
real gratitude. Next night I was greeted
by a deputation of three Phantoms from
other wards. Quoth one: “Could you
spare us a bone each, please. Sister?”
* ❖ *
“Bo”: An invariable ritual with
chemists when you hand over a prescrip-
tion is to say: “This will be ready in
about twenty minutes.” Reasons might
include ( a ) sheer conservatism —they’ve
been saying it from way back in the
misty past; ( b ) just to let you know
how busy they are ; (c) the profession
might suffer grievous loss of prestige if
it were thought the stuff took less time
to compound. Now, it might be well
enough applied to jalap, with various
ingredients to be carefully weighed and
checked, so that a shot of thallium or
prussic-acid won’t be dropped in instead
of the mist.-pot. But why apply it to
tablets? The idea would seem to be to
create the impression that these are still
compounded, as in the long ago, with
pestle and mortar, whereas all chemists
have to do is grab a fistful out of a box
and count the requisite number into a
bottle, screw the top on, bash out the
few words of instructions on the type-
writer, slap it on and hand it over—the
complete operation would take no more
than 90 seconds. I used to be a mug
and walk around. Then I took to com-
ing back every five minutes. Now I sit
ot
pat m the shop and stare fixedly at the
dispenser every time he serves a cus-
tomer, with an expression which I try
to make a composite of those worn by
Frankenstein, the Mad Scientist and the
late “Legs” Diamond. It so unnerves
him he fixes the most complicated
prescription in under five minutes.
“ That's the atomic-research specialist — he's radioactive
“Nakh”: In view of the advances said
to have been made in education these
days, I was surprised to find in perusing a
grandson’s examination-papers the same
old unimaginative way of putting ques-
tions which prevailed in my own school-
days. It wasn’t so in earlier periods of
English history. Here is a question put
in an arithmetical textbook of 1788,
recently discovered in Yorkshire: “If a
cardinal can pray a soul out of purgatory
by himself in an hour, a bishop in three
hours, a priest in five, and a friar in seven,
in what time can they pray out three souls
all praying together?”
£4 4J4
“Emjai”: Melbourne had a scare at the
tail-end of War 11, when it was bombed
—or thought it was. My view was from
a high window in Collins-street. A
terrific explosion shook the building, and
the windows of Collins House across the
way were lit up by a flash of flame, fol-
lowed by billows of smoke. This was it!
A direct hit on the financial heart. I
got down in time to see a stream of scared
employees emerging like dusty millers
from the shattered plaster, ready to duck
from the next. But Collins House was
not the target. It was the building opposite
which copped it, and my view had been
the reflection in the windows of the house
of Mammon. And there was no “next.”
The “bomb” was a belly-tank which fell
from one-of-ours, flying high above, and
dropped plumb into the light-well of the
Bank of New Zealand. It was a miracle
that it landed in that small, walled-in
space, where it was confined and quickly
suppressed. A bomb-aimer placing an
“egg” there deliberately would be in
super class. We were not told what award
came to the laddie who fluked it,
£4 <4 ♦>
“Mullum”: Possibly it has been con-
sidered and thought unsuitable, but it
certainly impressed me. A news-photo
in an American paper, it had more effect
than all the road-safety propaganda I’ve
heard in the last three years. The
smashed car was not particularly strik-
ing, and I doubt if the body of an
attractive girl would have added much
to the effect —had it not been for the
leg, complete with shoe and nylon,
which was lying several feet from the
body. That picture has reduced my
driving speed by 10 m.p.h.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jemac”: The Admiralty Salvage
Organisation has had some pretty grim
tasks: it’s now engaged on one of its
touchiest “saves.” Early in War II —some
13 years back —the French destroyer
Maille Breze was bombed to the bottom
of the Clyde. Recently the Clyde Navi-
gation Trust became anxious lest the ship’s
oil, through corrosion of tanks, should
well forth and pollute the river. The am-
munition, too, could be unstable through
l° n 8 immersion, and a hefty bump from
wrecks being fouled could set it off.
■ rhe Admiralty got to work Messmger .
wires for the mJin lifting-wires have lien
swept or tunnelled beneath the wreck,
Divers found that the ship is heavily
s ilted-up; this mud will have to be re-
moved, and the superstructure will have
to be cut off to lighten her. Then the
touchy part will begin. As she comes up
on immensely strong lifting-wires, a
sudden lean could spill her hundreds of
tons of oil. And the unstable ammo
could be waiting for just such a chance.
When she is got up, the destroyer will
be lifted bodily on to a near-by mud-
bank, and experts will immediately re-
move her explosive cargo.
“Alma”: Since the travel-minded but
broke youth of the world have discovered
that there are, after all, enough cars to
go round, hitch-hiking has become an
art on the Continent. If you’re, female
your chances, of course, are doubled. The
lad we met had been standing by the
road for hours trying to thumb a lift to
Frankfurt. Plenty of cars, plenty of pick-
ups—all girls. The fraternity of the roads
came to the luckless one’s rescue. One
of our party crossed and stood beside
him and smiled into the eyes of the first
truck-driver. According to form, he
braked and waited for her to hoist herself
and swag into the cabin. I’ll never for-
get the look on the driver’s face as we
bundled the boy in and waved farewell
before his unwitting chauffeur could
collect his senses and correct his mistake.
“Becks”: I hope the Royal-visit florin,
when it goes into circulation, looks a
little better than the pictures of it given
to the Press. The main part of the design
on the reverse is a kangaroo—that much
is indisputable. But what the rest repre-
sents is anybody’s guess. The ’roo could
be competing in a sack-race, emerging
from a snail-shell or being swallowed by
a headless and legless body Wearing a
lion’s tail. Only this tail saves the rear
portion of the design from being identi-
fied as a limbless torso from a Greek
frieze. Perhaps the lion it is officially
stated to represent will be more easily
discerned in relief.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Timekeeper”: Chris is a nice bloke,
but it will take a lot to get me to spend
another night in his house. As I went in
I admired the big grandfather-clock tick-
ing quietly away in the hall; in the lounge
a dainty French timepiece chimed the
quarters ; there was a cuckoo-clock at the
head of the stairs, and a ship’s-clock
in the room where I bedded down. They
all chimed in quietly enough as we passed
away a pleasant evening; but as soon as
we turned in, and the house became quiet,
the clocks took over. Eleven o’clock and
half-past were bad enough, but just as I
was drifting off to sleep, midnight came.
All hell broke loose. You’d have thought
it was New Year’s Eve. Even a* sun-dial
gives me the horrors now.
THE CONSTANT LOVER
“Petitioner said her husband never worked.
The only time he ever had showed affection
for her was when he wanted money from her
for beer.” —Court report.
He possibly had quite the best intentions,
In order that division of his screw
Might cause no lurid family dissensions,
Work, he decided, he must never do.
And what magnificent consideration
He showed when yielding her the right
to toil,
With gracious leave to choose her own
vocation !
Right nobly he’d withheld exacerbation
When hands she’d soil.
In letting her perspire while he was
resting.
Don’t think that he was acting like a
lout ;
His thoughtful nature he was manifesting:
Hard graft would help prevent her
getting stout.
Himself, he banned all energy-expending.
Deeming that such was only fit for
mugs —
Excepting, naturally, elbow-bending,
For that was necessary for up-ending
The foaming jugs.
You’d think some gratitude she would
be showing
At getting one who’d caused her no
alarm
That while to work at morning he’d be
going
Some accident might do him dreadful
harm ;
That she could go to work herself,
contented,
Knowing that he’d be safe at home in
bed ;
That worries which get other wives
fermented
She had been spared must surely be
accented.
Alas! Instead
She sought to have the double-harness
riven.
Had she no speaking conscience, then,
to salve ?
Shame on a woman —may she be
forgiven —
Who’d let a poor work-hating husband
starve !
He may have had a solid predilection
For snooze and booze — what’s that to
cavil at?
But seeing his thoughts ran in the beer-
direction.
She Surely couldn’t claim he lacked
affection.
She can’t buck that!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Arthur Frank Bell, as well as being
Under-secretary for Agriculture and
Stock in Queensland, is contender for the
title of champion board-and-committee-
member of his State. He chairs, advises
on or is a member of close on a dozen
boards, bureaux, councils and faculties,
their purposes ranging from agriculture
and veterinary-science to sugar-experi-
menting and irrigation-production. So
it’s not surprising that the Old Digger
has been awarded the Australian Medal
of Agricultural Science, given to the
person making the greatest contribution
to Australian agriculture over the previous
five years. It should not have been a
very difficult selection.
• •
Edgar Clynton Spooner, dark, dapper
and with enough go about him to turn
a spark-plug green, looks more like a top-
bracket salesman than what he is—
Adelaide’s Professor of Mining and
Metallurgy. His energy accounted for a
Tasmanian Rhodes Scholarship (1931),
Doctorates of Science and Philosophy,
and a Bachelorship of Engineering, From
Oxford he worked in England, Spain and
America, technical adviser and researcher
for several large metal-industries. An
expert on magnesium and other light-
SPOONER, of Adelaide
weights, he’s produced a learned tome
(title too long for mention here), and is
only lately back from a metallurgical look
round Jo’burg and the Belgian Congo on
a Nuffield Fellowship. He’s off again
towards the end of January, on invitation
from the Ceylon Government to advise
on the reorganisation of its Department
of Industries and on the training of the
department’s staff. He’s 45 ; b. Hobart.
• •
Captain James Marshall, who will pilot
the T.A.A. Convair carrying the Queen
and the Duke of Edinburgh on their
flights in Australia, is ex-R.A.A.F. Join-
ing two days after Europe blew up over
Hitler, he was in Singapore with No. 8
Squadron to help in the evacuation when
the Japs came. Later he ferried heavy-
bombers from Honolulu to various
troubled areas in the Pacific. He has
been test-pilot to pretty nearly every type
of service aircraft. Joining T.A.A. at its
beginning he was put in charge of the
first Convairs bought in 1948. His home
and family are in Melbourne.
• •
Bernard Hendrik Lochtenburg, Wes-
tralian Rhodes Scholar for 1954,
attended schools in four countries before
commencing a brilliant academic career
in Perth. Son of a Dutch father and
British mother, he was born in Singa-
pore, and had primary schooling in Java,
Holland, Singapore and the U.S. before
he came to Perth with his mother in
1942. His father served with the Dutch
Army against the Japs in Indonesia and
died in a Sumatran p.-0.-w. camp in 1945.
At the Westralian University young
Lochtenburg gained 11 distinctions in the
engineering course and won the G. M.
Nunn prize for surveying in 1950 and
1952; earned his rowing blue, and was a
member of the ’Varsity eight in 1950,
1951 and 1952. On the social side, he is
retiring president of the Guild of Under-
grads and was president of the Engineers’
Club last year. Other training—in the
ranks of a C.M.F. engineer-unit. At
Oxford he’s after a research-degree in
the stress-field of concrete.
After a distinguished term as seagoing
head of the Australian Fleet, Rear-
Admiral J, W. M. Eaton, R.N., the other
day handed over his command to Aus-
tralian Rear-Admiral Dowling. A man
with a healthy respect for the fleet-carrier,
Eaton in his period of command made
the R.A.N. alive to what he considers its
main tasks in a future war —killing long-
range submarines, and protecting the Fleet
with aircraft. Almost every week he had
his ships exercising with both subs and
aircraft, and he leaves the Fleet with an
awareness of the trend of their future
roles. A destroyerman—and thus sub.-
killer himself, Eaton in destroyer
Mohawk towed the mine-damaged
Gallant into Malta in War II; was him-
self torpedoed by a sub. when engaged in
sinking an enemy convoy one dark night
not long afterwards; and had an aircraft
lay its explosive-egg down his next de-
stroyer’s funnel in the Sicily business.
He has not, presumably, forgotten his two
main enemies. He returns to the Mother
Navy.
• •
Latest arrival, fully-fledged, on the
Victorian Supreme Court Bench, Edward
Herbert Hudson has been looking down
from that elevation in an acting-capacity
since Sir Edmund Herring stepped down
to step-up recruiting. Hudson took the
Supreme Court Judges’ prize on gradu-
ating from Melbourne University in 1918,
went on to build one of the largest prac-
tices in Melbourne, and figured as a leader
of the Equity Bar. For four years from
1942 he was Judge Advocate-General to
the R.A.A.F. A low-mark golfer (one-
time captain of Riversdale G.C.), he holds,
also, an enthusiastic brief for trout-fish-
ing.
• •
“T.M.”: There’s something of Car-
lyle’s experience about The Treasury of
New Zealand Fishes, published recently
in Wellington. Author David Graham
failed to win assistance from the Enzed
Literary Fund, but was luckier with
A. H. and A. W. Reed, publishers of the
New Zealand Who’s Who. Sent to a
printery in Dunedin, the book, blocks and
all, was completely destroyed by fire last
year. The big fellow (crippled since
World War I) was not downhearted, and,
when Reed’s decided to have another shot
at producing his book, settled down
tenaciously to re-reading and revising his
proofs —helped greatly by his wife, a niece
of black-and-white artist Unk White.
Graham was in hospital when his work
finally appeared, but he had the satis-
faction of knowing that half the first
edition was sold before
publication, that the book
has been favorably re-
ceived by scientists over-
seas (many sent congratu-
latory cables), and that it
is selling strongly.
• •
“Fitz”: Dal Stivens,
whose latest book. The
Gambling Ghost, is now
in Australian bookshops,
celebrated his 42nd birth-
day on the last day of last
year. There is ink in the
veins on both sides of the
family—his mother was an
Abbott, related to J. H. M.
Abbott. Stivens started as
a bank-clerk, and was in
that line when his early
stories appeared in The
Bulletin. In 1936 Mac-
millan published a collec-
tion of his tales called The
Tramp, which won high
praise from H. E. Bates and
Graham Greene. After the
war Stivens went to Lon-
don as Press-officer at Aus-
tralia House but resigned to
give his whole time to fic-
tion. His first novel, Jimmy
Brockett, was published
shortly afterwards. As a
freelance in England he has
scored with the 8.8. C.,
contributing stories to an
assortment of its pro-
grammes ; magazines like
“Lilliput” took him up,
then “Collier’s” in America collared him
to do work for them. His recent tales,
many of which are in The Gambling
Ghost, grew out of an interest in Aus-
tralian “tall stories” and bush-ballads.
Some of them, including “The Chicken-
hearted Ghost,” have been printed in The
Bulletin. A small, slight chap with a
soft voice, Stivens plans to come back
to Australia shortly.
Westralian University’s new Professor
of Education, Dr. Colsell Sanders, has had
a lifelong association with that seat of
learning, as well as practical experience
of teaching. His doctorate (London
Ph.D.) was conferred for research into
the psychological needs of children in
relation to behavior ; he had previously
graduated M.A. at his present university,
and had seen much of the way youngsters
behave during 10 years with the Educa-
tion Department. Registrar of the Uni-
versity since 1940, and since 1950 a
Fellow of the British Psychological
Society, before taking up his new post
next July he will visit South-east Asia
to look into the problems of students from
those parts who enter Australian uni-
versities. His wife, Dorothy Sanders,
has several novels to her credit.
• •
King O’Malley’s entry into
the South Australian Parliament in 1896
was the most sensational that that
solemn legislature had experienced. The
“King’s” platform had four planks —
the legitimatising of children born out of
wedlock when their parents marry, pro-
vision of lavatories on trains, seats in
shops for salesgirls and the abolition
of barmaids. He won on all fronts
except with regard to seats for sales-
girls. This seemed such a ridiculous
proposal that members split their sides
laughing at it
, • •
Arthur George Stephenson, first Aus-
tralian to be awarded the Royal Gold
Medal for Architecture, instituted by
Queen Victoria in 1848, was born in Mel-
bourne in 1890, educated at Melbourne
Grammar and apprenticed to a leading
Yarraside architect. Later he moved to
Sydney, got an urge for exploration, spent
several years with a British exploring
party in New Guinea and returned to set
up his shingle in the Harbor town. The
Queen will present the medal while she
is in Australia.
• •
A year or so back a shy young chap cam*
into The Bulletin office with an artist’s
satchel under one wing. He inquired, ac-
centedly and modestly, if any drawing-work
could be found for him —especially caricatur-
ing. There was one sure way to find out —
Tibor Binder sketched his first notable, and
he’s been sketching for this paper ever since.
Born in eastern Czechoslovakia, Binder was
at an easel at 15, and studied both commercial-
and fine-art in Budapest and Prague. Con-
scripted into a Hungarian Army officers’-school
towards the end of War 11, with the whole
school he turned over to the Yanks when they
arrived. When the Communists took charge
of his country their repressive measures soon
decided him to get out. On his first go he was
caught asleep, exhausted with nervous strain,
in the train on the frontier. After a month
in jail he had another shot; left the train when
he found that the escape-group leader was a
Quisling about to turn them over to the
BINDER by BINDER
Russians, and toiled across the mountains to
the British zone.
Since landing in Sydney he’s been a kitchen-
man, a porter loading wool-bales at Darling
Harbor, a carriage-cleaner and worker in a
Elastics-factory. It was from the last-named
e came along with his sketches. Since then
he’s painted some 12 oils, to which he hopes
to add enough to hold an exhibition some time
this year. Throughout this present month one
of his oils will hang in the entrance-hall of
the Immigration Department building in
Sydney’s York-street.
Lusby’s inspection:
_ Typical of New Guinea’s Sanders-of-the-
River types is District Commissioner Bob Cole,
of the Mt. Hagen area in the Western High-
lands. A rangy, keen-eyed, quiet-speaking
bloke, Robert R. was born at Dubbo (N.S.W.)
40 years back . and Dubbo High School was
b j s springboard for the big jump north. Now
Cole’s quizzical young-old phiz wears an ex-
pression you see often in New Guinea—the
s£*** gnn under a mighty thoughdul
He joined the Administrative Service in 1938,
and before War II had built up a handy fund
COLE, of New Guinea
of local knowledge on patrols from Bougain-
ville to the Sepik. Commissioned in the
A.1.F., Cole led an Intelligence party into
"Dutch New Guinea during the Jap trouble,
foraging for info, ahead of the Hollandia
landing. He got the M.C. for his handling
of the job.
First district-officer appointed to Mt. Hagen,
Cole shifts shortly to the fresher field of
Mendi—so fresh that about 20 years ago Aus-
tralia didn’t know she had it; so fresh that,
talking about it at Hagen, Cole calls casually
to a bystander and you shake hands with one
of the discoverers—Dan Leahy.
Bob Cole finds cheer in a curious exile at
near-equatorial Hagen. It’s a small peach-
tree, bearing fruit. “See that?” he exclaims
proudly, pointing his pipe at it from the pass-
ing jeep. “I’ll bet it’s the only one in the
Territory! ” “Just shows what can be done,”
replies the peach-tree.
• m
“Chevroford”: I read with some
interest in the Melbourne papers that
Baron von Klaus Oertzen, the Volks-
wagen representative in Australia, is in-
troducing a de luxe version of the beetle-
shaped German Volkswagen car which
will sell for £892, including tax. Having
driven a commercial variety of the same
genus for three years I think it is a
good one, but the thing that interests me
is that this is the progeny of the famous
“people’s car” which Hitler was going
to put into the hands of every man,
woman and child in Germany. The Baron
was selling cars outside Germany when
Hitler erupted, and was given light in-
ternment, after which he became inter-
national representative of the firm which
makes 180,000 of the vehicles per annum,
70,000 of which are exported.
• •
“M.”: Though the R.A.N.’s Fireflies
and Furies (of Wings Off the Sea ) have
done a stout job in Korea, they are on
the way out: to be replaced by the Sea
Venom, an all-weather jet-fighter air-
craft. Lieutenant G. Jude and Lieutenant
P. Seed, two pilots who flew the
propeller-jobs in Korea, are headed for
the U.K. as first of a group due to take
the jet night-lighter training-course over
there. Though in their twenties, like
most carrier-pilots, both prospective jet-
men have had long air-experience. Jude
was in the War II R.A.A.F. before, in
1948, he shifted to the Navy. Seed, an
Enzedder now of Sydney, learnt his
landings with the Royal Navy Fleet Air
Arm.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (N.Z.), Searle D. Mason,
C.8.E., who joined the in War I as
private and left as captain. In War II he was
commandant of Burnham Camp, brigadier.
In Adelaide, at 63, H. H. M. Bridgman,
South Australian representative on the Cricket
Board of Control. A one-time player for his
State, and selector.
At Fullarton (S.A.), Michael Alfred Smedley,
managing-director of the Gjenelg “Guardian”
and manager of the Kangaroo Island
“Courier.” Member of a firm of printers
bearing his name, he had been in provincial
journalism all his life, and for many years was
managing-editor of the Broken Hill “Barrier
Daily Truth.”
In Brisbane, at 70, Jeremiah Joseph Stable,
one of the leading-lights of Queensland literary
circles. Professor of English Language and
Literature at the University from 1922 till he
retired a few months ago, he was educated in
Switzerland and at Cambridge (honors in
medieval and modern languages in 1905), and,
himself author of four volumes of verse, he
had been in just about every literary associa-
tion of importance in Brisbane —president of
the Authors and Artists’ Association, of the
Repertory Theatre Society, of the English and
Modern Languages Association and for seven
years Dean of the University Faculty of Arts.
An Intelligence-officer in War I, he was a
censor in War 11.


PARTY MANNERS


ABORIGINLITIES
TED reckoned on his farm-employ-
ment problem being finally solved
with the New Australian, but each time
he told him what to do Newie nodded
agreeably and looked vague. “Gripes,
don’t you understand English?” Ted
growled. “Eengleesh?” said Newie.
“Non . . . er . . . not mooch.” After a
couple of days of it Ted decided he was
getting nowhere and began seriously on
the language trouble. “Pick, see?” he
sajd, picking up that implement. “A
flamin’ ruddy mad mick!” I left the
pair to their lessons, and didn’t run into
them again for about two months. Then
I found them beside the potato-plot, Ted
admiring the crop. “How’s the language
going?” I inquired. “Oh, not bad,” said
Ted, pulling out the makings, “He can
understand me pretty fair now, though I
must admit some words are a bit tough.
Still, we get by awright. Hey, Newie,”
he called, jerking a thumb at the potato-
patch, “gy pakt de schop en . . . er . . . en
spit, blast you!” —“Chuck.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Early settlers on the
southern Monaro used the waters of the
Snowy River for power purposes a
hundred years before the present scheme
was started. In 1847 Stewart Ryrie,
junior, established the district’s first
flour-mill at Jindabyne, using the water
of the Snowy River to drive it. The
remains of another very old flour-mill
still stand at Nimmitabel, but this one
was driven by windpower, four large
arms revolving on the side of the old
tower. However, these revolving wings
cast moving shadows on the street and
caused horses to bolt, and there were
so many complaints that the owner was
compelled to take the wings off and
substitute horsepower. Something should
be done to preserve this old mill, one
of the last of its kind in Australia.
* * * *
“Tasmaniac”: Now that “Bo’s” Anti-
Vulgarian League has suitably renamed
meat-cuts (B. 16/12 / ’53), let it put to
rout the meat-purveyors from their
meatoriums, the furniture-removalists,
and the inhabitants of emporiums,
fruitoriums and lubritoriums, and give
us instead butchers, grocers and greasers.
Americans tend to the other extreme,
“Eats” and “Gas” signs gracing their
dining-rooms and petrol-stations. But
Yanks, too, have their elegant varia-
tions—a Tassie professor on a tour of
inspection in Texas was guided on one
of his more urgent quests by the
delicate euphemism “Steers.” The other
one was labelled “Heifers.”
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: Bunny is a master-
engineer when it comes to getting his
emergency-exit exactly where he wants
it. But if he starts from the surface
how does he contrive to make his drive
“A happy and prosperous New Year, Ben."
meet the main burrow? And if he works
from the warren how can he possibly
regulate his direction, distance and ascent
to bring him to the surface at the exact
spot? I used to think he started from
the top and aimed his shaft towards the
sounds made by his fellow-tunnellers in
the warren. Recently, however, I came
across a small warren near an ancient
hollow trunk that had been snapped off
about Bft. above the ground. Tell-tale
thumpings advertised that at least one
bunny was at home, but the sounds
seemed to come from the stump. I
pulled myself up, looked down the spout
and saw a rabbit sitting in a light-area.
He could enjoy the sun, escape any
wind, be out of ordinary sight from
humans and beyond the reach of dog or
fox. I’m still trying to figure out how
the buck-toothed engineers knew there
was a natural solarium just waiting for
a shaft to be driven up into it.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We’d missed Christmas
through a hold-up on our contract and
got into Moama late on the night before
New Year’s Eve. McKay, of the Border
Inn, made us up a couple of bunks in a
back room, we shaved off our beards,
showered, stuck a couple of beers under
our belts and fell into bunk. “A good
night’s rest,” Mat said, “dnd we’ll be fit
for New Year’s Eve.” Heat and mos-
quitoes bothered us for a bit, then we
dropped off, only to start up when some-
one set off snoring just outside our
window. We yelled, he gurgled and
choked and was silent. Five minutes
later he was at it again. Again we yelled.
This went on for a while. Then Mat got
up and looked out the window. “Have a
look at this,” he said. In the moonlight
a bloke slept on the flat-top of a four-
wheeled pneumatic-tyred lorry. Thirty
minutes later he still snored on the lorry,
only the lorry was a quarter-mile up the
Wamboota-road, parked under a tree.
Next day the bloke ferociously offered to
fight the “bliddy fools who put it over
me last night,” but by that time the New
Year spirit of goodfellowship was on us
all and we drowned his indignation in it.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Australians who import
roofing-slates from Wales show ignorance
of the resources of their own country.
Just outside Willunga (S.A.) is a slate-
quarry which, opened in the first years of
colonisation, is the oldest surviving in-
dustry in the State. Its product has stood
the test of more than a century on the
roofs of some of Adelaide’s oldest build-
ings, and it is still turning ’em out. The
cost compares favorably with tiles or im-
ported corrugated-iron, with the added
advantage of lasting for centuries. Other
lines turned out by this famous old quarry
are street-paving slabs which don’t get
slippery when wet and never ‘become
rough to the feet when worn, as concrete
does, and school-blackboards which do
not reflect light and which can be cleaned
by a single wipe from a duster. Farther
north, at Mintaro, is another quarry
which supplies Australia with slates for
billiard-tables—the only one in the world
which can supply one-piece slate-beds for
full-sized tables.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: My first impression of
the rouseabout who’d been detailed to do
my laboring while I built a new chimney
at the homestead was that he’d be a happy
bloke. For the first day he was; but
next day his cheerful smile was missing,
he had nothing to say, and he no longer
hummed quietly as he kept the material
up. Then I noticed him pulling at an
upper back tooth with finger and thumb.
“Toothache,” he grunted. I said I’d carry
on while he shot into town to the dentist.
“Wouldn’t go to him again,” he growled.
“He’s just a butcher—-nearly pulled me
head off once.” I watched as he walked
dejectedly to our quarters. Fifteen-stone
or more; strong enough to hold a bullock
up by the ears; tough as mulga—you’d
think; but wouldn’t go to a dentist for
fear of getting hurt! Five minutes later
he came back and stood picking at his
mouth with a nail. “That’ll only make it
worse,” I protested. “I’ll get you some
aspirin.” “Aw, the tooth won’t worry
me any more,” he said, the old grin back
on his rugged phiz. “I just pulled it out
with a pair of pliers ; a bit of root seems
to- have broken off, but I’ll get it, all
right.” Horrified, I watched him grub
the fragment out, then went and got the
aspirins—l felt I needed ’em.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Charlie was going crook.
“They’ve got repellants for keeping sharks
and sandflies and mozzies at a distance,
and even cats away from aviaries, but
nobody bothers about inventing some-
thing to put in paint so’s insects won’t
splather ’emselves all over it. Look at
the cows!” he snorted, pointing to the
window-sill he’d painted the previous
afternoon. “Why couldn’t they commit
suicide some other way?” He looked
closer, “Even a blasted bee stuck on it.
A man ought to leave him there for being
as brainless as the others.” However, he
drew his putty-knife and, at risk of his
precious paintwork, began to ease the
steel under the furry-looking feet. A
truly magnanimous and forgiving action.
But virtue, alas, is seldom rewarded.
Charlie is now wearing a beautiful bung-
eye. The paint was dry and the bee
merely having a rest.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: What a pity “Ceg” spoilt
his simile by likening the removal of
bands from cigars to the cutting-off of
lambs’ tails (B. 23/12/’53). The ovine
appendage is lopped-off for the very
good reason that it can become fouled
and consequently fly-blown. Now, if
he’d made it pups’ tails! It’s true that
a little dog whose rudder has escaped
the axe does look comical, but only for
the same reason that a photo of a
flapper from the Jazz Age looks ridicu-
lous to her daughter with the modified
Dior-100k —it depends on what length
they’re “being worn.” No supporter of
the R.S.P.C.A. would be a party to an
act of cruelty, but has anybody ever
heard the society protest against the
cutting off of pups’ to-and-froms? One
day some brave judge at a dog-show
may give a prize to a foxy with a long
tail. When the howl has died down,
some sincere dog-lover may do a little
soul-searching and decide why it is not
unnecessary or wanton cruelty to dis-
member a puppy and without
anaesthetic.
THE NEW FARM
She waves her apron from the porch until
He sees and knows it’s time to leave the
ploughing.
He strides with lanky measure down the hill
And hopes the rain won’t come before the
sowing.
She ties her apron round her waist again,
Large with child, and hears the kettle hissing,
And hurries to the kitchen, wondering when
They’ll find the cow with the new-born calf
that’s missing.
The farm has risen where the hills are wild ;
It is his first fenced paddock that he’s
ploughing.
But the cow has calved, and she is large with
child,
And soon, with rain, the green corn will be
giowing.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
Weeds for a Writer
PUBLICATION of “On Our Selection”
and “Our New Selection” in serial
form in The Bulletin and in book-form
by Angus and Robertson brought a new
generation to appreciate the works of
Steele Rudd, and revived for older Aus-
tralians a name that will not die.
Steele Rudd (real name Arthur Hoey
Davis) was a Queenslander by birth, but
when he died in 1935 he was as much a
part of the Australian national fabric as
anything or anyone else. He was buried
in the Toowong (Brisbane) cemetery, but
if anyone wants to visit the grave they’d
better have a guide, because it is over-
grown with weeds and there is nothing
to show who lies below.
Steele Rudd’s enduring monument is his
“Selection” literature. That will be there
when headstones and cemeteries of today
are forgotten. But there are still many
people alive who knew the man person-
ally, many more to whom he is the living
creator of Dad and Mother, Dave and
Joe, and the rest of them, and quite a
few who have done very well indeed out
of his characters. It is not good that in
less than 20 years his grave should be
marked only by weeds.
Queensland Authors and Artists’ Associ-
ation could scarcely believe its eyes when
it saw the spot last July. It is working
now to raise enough money to provide
a simple palisaded slab and headstone
so that visitors and pilgrims may know
that Australians do not forget their
illustrious dead. To that end it asks
for donations from Steele Rudd’s admirers
to provide a headstone estimated to cost
The Steele Rudd memorial cairn at
Drayton ( Q .), unveiled by Professor
Stable, who with Steele Rudd founded
the Authors and Artists’ Association in
Brisbane.
£3OO and to create a trust fund to estab-
lish an annual “Steele Rudd Memorial
Lecture.”
Money sent to the Steele Rudd
Memorial Fund, Brisbane, will be
appreciated and acknowledged.
C.S.


6 can’t beat experience,” Mick
declared proudly. “Twelve months
ago that young bloke of mine didn’t even
know how to hold his hands up, then he
started leamin’ boxing off the new bar-
man down at the pub —used to be a pretty
good pug, that feller. Next thing I hear
young Jack’s cleaned-up a larrikin who
used to belt him at school. Then he wins
a welterweight tourney at the School of
Arts. A while later a few fellers at work
tell me about him thumpin’ the daylights
out of some heavyweight joker in the
pub. But last night he comes home well
under the weather, so I tell him pretty
stern-like that it’s time enough for them
sort of capers when he reaches my age.
He flies off the handle, next thing he’s
prancin’ around and jabbin’ me on the
nose with them fancy prods. Four times
he does that, then he really sails in, and—
bang! I catch him with a Limerick
uppercut about four inches below the
knee. He lets out a howl and dives to
grab his shin —just as I bring the knee
up. No, you can’t beat experience.” —
“H.C.8.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Spokeshave”; A farmer at Wan-
garatta (Vic.) found a fisherman angling
on the Rose River, and, introducing him-
self as the Fisheries and Games inspec-
tor, demanded that the angler pay him
ss. for a trout-licence. Whereupon the
angler introduced himself as a Fisheries
and Games inspector. The Wangaratta
Beak fined the farmer £lO for false
pretences.
* * * *
“Islander”: For a week I’d put our
two-and-a-bit to bed alone. The pro-
cedure was invariable; first he’d flatten
the pillow, then arch the turned-back
sheet to make a cave ; then, from a care-
fully-chosen position in the middle of
the bed, he’d somersault in under the
raised bedding. The first time my wife
saw this performance she asked why. The
youngster’s reply staggered us: “Dat’s
how Joey goes to bed.” Well, “S.G.” (B.
7/10/’53), we watched the kid’s orphaned
pet, and that was how he returned to
the low-hung, padded old peg-bag we’d
reserved for his use.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Ever heard of peechatchees?
Around the turn of the century they
seemed to be fairly numerous in
northern Victoria. Their main habitat
was the gum-forest over the hill from
the old farm and around the big hole
in the creek, and there was always a
risk of coming upon them when poking
about old mine-workings. They ap-
peared to be a combination of the
reptilian and mammalian in form, but
science has never defined them, and no
specimens appear to have been pre-
served. They are, or were, of the same
genus as the bunyip.
THE STATUE
Lone chimney standing, black fireplace —
Statue to a kettle and Mum’s face,
Pots on the hob and, all in a row,
Feet on the fender, long long ago;
Light on faces, hands in the glow,
And an old clock ticking, ten minutes slow.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSION.
Old Bore’s Almanack
For 1954
Jan. ; There will be a big editorial shake-
up on a Sydney paper following mana-
gerial realisation that it has made no
mention of a Mystery Punter for a whole
month. Announcement of a new decree
by Marcel Panzi, the Parisian fashion-
emperor, that the new waist must be only
three inches below the bust-line will
draw from the Feminist Club the opinion
that women will revolt against such a
ukase. A spokesman for N.S.W. dairy-
farmers will say that unless they get an-
other tenpence a gallon for milk they will
have no option but to walk off their
farms.
Feb. : In N.S.W. the Broad Bean
Marketing Board will be formed, and the
Premier will justify the appointment of
an ex-Communist union-secretary as its
first chairman on the ground that he has
been eating broad-beans for 35 years, and
once sold 61b. of them out of his own
garden. A dairyfarm in N.S.W. will
change hands at the record price of
£56,000. A women’s organisation will
express horror at a judge’s statement
that in his court he would accept only
the term “kept woman,” and not “de-
facto wife.” Two days after he has
made a statement in which he expresses a
profound affection for Britain, General
Neguib will issue a directive to his Army
“You never know —I might strike a gusher."
commanders to practise attack in
echelon formation in preparation for
bloody operations against the British in
the Canal Zone, and there will be a
rush in Cairo to acquire British military
handbooks to find out what “echelon”
means.
Mar.: A bookmaker who wins the
lottery for the second time will com-
plain that the publicity he received has
caused him to be pestered with begging
letters. A character in a Hollywood film
will fail to say “Now, relax —everything’s
gonna be all right!” Miners at a
northern N.S.W. coalmine will go on
strike following a pithead meeting at
which it will be disclosed that one miner
on the previous day had backed a 20-to-l
winner without giving his mates the good
oil. The N.S.W. Premier will assure a
deputation of churchmen that Cabinet
will give “earnest consideration” to their
protest at the holding of the R.A.S.’s
Easter Show on Good Friday. Two days
after surface-relaying operations are
completed in an important city street
digging operations will commence in it
for laying of subterranean cables. The
N.S.W. Road Transport Dept, will an-
nounce plans for greatly-augmented bus
services to the Showground on Good
Friday.
April : A royal-commission witness
will be able to recall the colors of the
jockey who rode the horse which won
him £4OOO, but he won’t be able to re-
member which course it was on. “Red
Star” will disclose that the siege-gun was
invented in 1174 by the famous Russian
military engineer H. O. Witzer. A Sydney
newspaper, prosecuted under the Press-
gag Act, will reveal that it got its infor-
mation from a person since deceased;
caucus will thereupon order the Premier
to prepare an amendment to the Act
making it a penal offence for a newspaper
to accept information from any individual
without first obtaining a doctor’s certifi-
cate to the effect that the informant is
not at the time suffering from any disease
which might in the foreseeable future
prove fatal. Asked how it is he was able to
keep so fit, an N.S.W. “Labor” aider-
man will reply laconically “Just hard
graft,” Melbourne dressmakers will re-
port an enormous demand for the new
Panzi waistline.
May: Thieves whose stolen car, being
chased by police, crashes into a post at
70 m.p.h. will run from the wreckage and
escape by climbing over a 10ft. wall. A
Victorian horse-trainer will declare that
the increased price of salt-lick “threatens
to spell ruin to the industry.” A grower
will be prosecuted by the Broad Bean
Marketing Board for having given a
colanderful of beans to his brother-in-
law without first getting permission from
the board. A week before the Federal
elections the Federal secretary of the
A.L.P. will declare that “Labor” has
never been more united.
June; Dr. Evatt will accept the gift of
a sulphur-crested cockatoo from a rural
supporter, and this will lead to a fearful
row in caucus with Arthur Calwell.
During the lying-in-state in a Darling-
hurst parlor of a thug bumped-off in a
gang duel, several hundred people will
file past the casket, and the afternoon
papers will each devote a full page to de-
scriptions and photos of the “moving
scenes” and the mountains of expensive
wreaths.
July: The N.S.W. Broad Bean Market-
ing Board will order growers to increase
crop-acreages as it expects there will be
a grave shortage of broad-beans from
other States. The Retail Traders’ As-
sociation will inaugurate “Daughters’
Day.” A Fremantle fisherman will drop
a bottle-opener overboard and it will not
be recovered inside the next fish he pulls
in. A commentator on foreign affairs
will predict that a grave shortage of
goldfish, bamboo umbrellas and birds’-
nests in Red China may force Mao Tse-
tung into a south-east aggressive adven-
ture as a diversion from internal unrest.
A Melbourne judge will ask for a defini-
tion of the term “do him over” used by a
witness. A bookie will be heard to admit
he had a winning day.
Aug.: An 11-year-old boy from
Spokane, Wash., asked why he shot-up his
family, will reply that he wanted to see
if they would pitch towards the bullet,
like in a crime-thriller he’d read. A
glamor competitor at Wimbledon will
“ What —no message?”
cause a sensation by wearing on the centre
court a pair of open-mesh nylon panties
edged with mink, and she will immedi-
ately be offered a long-term contract by
a Hollywood film-studio. France will
break its own record by having four
Governments in the month, and a sugges-
tion will be made that the traditional
double-doors leading into the Cabinet-
room be replaced by a rotunda. The
N.S.W. branch of the R.S.P.C.A. will hold
a meeting which doesn’t develop into a
verbal Donnybrook.
Sept.: Police will be forced to move
the crowd gathered around a city pawn-
shop-window gazing at a bookie’s bag
hanging up inside. A country railway-
fettler will be knocked unconscious by a
Railways’ Refreshment-room sandwich
that had been carelessly tossed out the
window. A visiting celebrity will not be
asked by a Press sob-sister what he thinks
of our beach-girls after he has been here
two days. A brother will be reunited with
his sister after 55 years, and she will not
tell a reporter “I’d have known him any-
where!” Dr. Evatt will make a speech
in which the word “I” occurs no more
than 116 times. Despite every effort of a
strong Bar, a big society divorce-case will
finish before the petitioner can wear all
her latest French-model frocks.
Oct. : The N.S.W. Broad Bean
Marketing Board will order
growers to plough under two-
thirds of their crops owing to
the prevailing heavy glut of
broad-beans from other States.
An English journalist will be
shown over the Jenolan Caves
and the Blue Mountains during
his fortnight’s stay, and he will
will subsequently write a book
which will contain suggestions
for the more efficient use of our
great outback. The chief of the
collectivised caviare industry will
be among those included in the
current Soviet purge, he having
worn a Homburg hat which the
Presidium had declared a symbol
of bourgeois internationalism and capital-
istic imperialism. Women’s new summer
hats will be worn over the left ear.
Nov.: A spokesman for a big Sydney
brewery will, in an interview, express
great surprise at a reporter’s disclosure
that thousands of dozen of bottled-beer
are being stockpiled in nightclubs for the
Christmas season, and that none is avail-
able for the public. “We genuinely
attributed the current shortage to in-
creased social activities in Sunday-school
organisations,” he will claim. One of the
new-model cars will introduce as a
novelty a horn which operates by the
driver squeezing a rubber bulb. Follow-
ing a heat-wave there will be a demand
for saner clothes for men. A prominent
Hollywood star will obtain her ninth
divorce on the grounds that her husband’s
habits of sucking his teeth and rubbing
the cat’s fur the wrong way caused her
extreme mental stress. In a speech to the
Supreme Soviet, delivered behind special
grenade-proof glass, Malenkov will de-
clare that the U.S.S.R. now has no in-
ternal enemies.
Dec. : The first 11 months’ operations
of the N.S.W. Broad Bean Marketing
Board will incur a loss of £85,000, and
the chairman will describe the result as
“eminently satisfactory.” “Home, Sweet
Home,” altered to 6-8 time and with a
new lyric by Al. Jugula, Butch McLevy
and Gila Monsta, will gross 26 million
dollars in disks and head all hit-tunes for
the year. A man who does his Christmas-
shopping in athletic-singlet, shorts and
sandals will be so hemmed-in by curious
gazers that he will have to receive police
protection, The captain of an incoming
liner will not declare that the mountainous
seas encountered on the voyage were the
worst he’d experienced in 45 years. The
N.S.W. Premier will proudly announce
that in the past year 100 yards of the
new Eastern Suburbs underground rail-
way has been quarried.
BO.


n/m mem
BRING MY
NNitrm.s
EVERYMAN SEEMS TO
AVO/P ME L/KE
a gyre w/tn
mo LEFT FEET
IJL
repay sees her oevrisr
V TO STOP BAP BREATH /
ECCMMENP COLGATE PENTAi
<LEAM. BRUSHING TEETH RIGHT
k AFTER EATING W/THCOLGATES
MAKES YOUR MOUTH FEEL
CLEARER LONGER,
ONES YOGA
V s CLEAN FRESH j|»
v MOOTH ALL PAY.
lono./jNL [ uh,h
;i/
YOUR FOOTWORKS
ALL R/GHT, PEGGY
" EOT YOU WEEP TO
LEARN THE
NEAPWORKFROM
YOOR PENT/ST-
JHE FACTS ABOUT
BAP BREATH
11
PEGGY'S HAYING 00/TE
s A WHIRL SINCE SHE i
BECAME A COLGATE
G/RL
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and 2 years’ re-
search showed the Col-
gate way stopped more
decay for more people
than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice
history! No other den-
tifrice offers such proof
the most conclusive
proof ever reported for
a dentifrice of any type.
OSE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
>S WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH \
'S AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Buy ihe
Big Family
Economy She
AMERICA’S LARGEST, AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST,
THE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
TJSA
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~m
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business. Rollery. Ete.
Finance Ministers’ Problem
X HE Principal problem which
will face Empire Finance .Min-
isters when they meet in Sydney
on January 8 will be the old one
of national productivity. The
least worried will probably be
Canada’s representative. Canada
is an expanding young country
with stable government and
vigorous industry, with the ad-
vantages of modern design in
its equipment, an abundance of
cheap hydroelectric power and
a good deal of U.S. industrial
know-how.
Britain has made good progress
in its industrial output since
1948, and its man-hour rate of
productivity in many industries
has increased above pre-war
levels. But it has inherent dis-
advantages compared with the
United States, where the work-
man has much more modern
machinery to his hand, and
where coal and power are com-
paratively cheap. And it has the
disadvantages, in competing
with German and Japanese
manufacturers, suffered by most
countries. This applies par-
ticularly to steel manufactures
and to cotton textiles.
During 1953 Britain’s export
trade increased slightly, and the
Empire’s trade, in money terms,
was bigger generally. But in-
creased competition is expected
in 1954, and part-repayment of
post-war dollar loans has to be
financed. Fortunately the sterl-
ing area’s gold and dollar
reserves have been added to con-
siderably over the year.
Australia’s greatest contribu-
tion to the sterling area is still
its virile and efficient wool in-
dustry. Our raw-wool exports
to foreign countries are of great
value to the sterling pool, and
Britain’s re-exports add further
value. But in many other direc-
tions Australia’s export position
is not strong. Markets which
were wide-open to us three years
ago have closed against us ; we
have been priced out of the trade
by other countries more effici-
ent or with better marketing
methods. Our present strong
overseas-trade position is largely
the result of wool exports at
improved prices.
Whilst our fundamental prob-
lem manifests itself in many
different monetary and economic
ways, it remains, at root, one of
productivity per member of the
British Commonwealth working
population.
Traced right through, the
problem resolves itself into one
of not enough production, not
enough surplus over consump-
tion, not enough saving, not
enough profit, not enough invest-
ment.
Long-term planning of the
right kind is needed, too. Any
kind of planning with confidence
over the past 15 years' in the
British Commonwealth has been
almost impossible because of
Socialistic government and con-
! fiscatory legislation and taxation.
. In Australia the atmosphere is
only now beginning to clear.
There has been some im-
provement lately. In a number
of industries output in return
for the weekly pay-envelope has
risen over the past two years.
The recent wage-stabilisation
policy has given industry a
further chance to keep money
costs down whilst real costs —
that is, costs in terms of man-
hours —are brought down, too.
Australia needs an abundance
of production at stable cost.
With plenty of the right kind of
production it could provide a
larger proportion of its own
capital and capital-goods re-
quirements. For example, with
increased coal- and steel-produc-
tion at steady prices the basis
of a bigger engineering and
construction industry would be
established.
Our transport services need
modernising. In this regard the
restriction on motor transport
is definitely an obstruction to the
achievements that will be hoped
for by the Finance Ministers at
their conference in Sydney.
Shipping costs around the Aus-
tralian coast are far too high,
and the Service too unreliable,
Australia’s transport system is
one of its weakest functions.
Free convertibility of sterling
and sterling-linked currencies is
tied up with the same problem of
production and production-
costs. With productivity high,
costs down and transport effici-
ent, not only will the revenue
from exports increase and the
need for imports slacken, but
capital tends to flow to the
country which is able to pro-
vide most of its own capital.
Costs and confidence are the
keys to sterling convertibility,
Myponga Uranium
The outcrop of “massive,
resinous-looking pitchblende”
discovered at Wild Dog Valley,
two miles south of Myponga
(S.A.) and 40 miles from Adel-
aide, is the first thing of its kind
to be found in Australia. The
pitchblende contains over 70 p.c.
uranium oxide, and it is the
simplest ore to treat for the
recovery of uranium.
According to Sir Douglas
Mawson, ore being mined at
Radium Hill (S.A.) contains
only a very small amount of
uranium compared with pitch-
blende. S. B. Dickinson, South
Australian Director of Mines,
said the pitchblende at Rum
Jungle (N.T.) was not in the
massive form, but was finely dis-
seminated through black slate.
The rich surface indications
of pitchblende at Myponga sug-
gest that there may be a well-
defined lode at depth. So far the
S.A. Mines Department has no
knowledge of the grade and
tonnage of the pitchblende ob-
tainable at Myponga.
The S.A. Government has
approved a reward of £5OOO to
two brothers, W. F. and J. J.
Wenham, who made the dis-
covery.
N.Z. Share Trends
Share prices in Maoriland
staged a good recovery in the
latter half of 1953, after more
or less marking time in the first
quarter and making a little head-
way in the second quarter. At
the year-end holders of sound
securities were back to where
they stood two years ago, and in
some cases a shade higher. It
took nearly six months for the
tide to begin flowing again when
the ebb ended.
Interest-pegging had more
than a little to do with the trend
of things, and as long as fixed-
interest securities have control
against them the bias will remain
in favor of shares. D. A.
Schnauer, chairman of the Auck-
land Stock Exchange, last month
called for release from controls,
which were getting in the way
of enterprise and should be
scrapped to allow demand and
What's that? Five-and-six? I only Want a pound of
steak , not the whole carcass !”
supply to take care of prices, not
least prices in the capital market,
In 1953 several factors
brought more reality into N.Z.’s
economy, according to Schnauer,
who applauded the action of
three Australian-controlled banks
in undertaking capital-increases,
“A heartening development for
the future of both New Zealand
and Australia.” Parallel with
this, banking service was in
closer accord with customers’
needs than for years past—a sure
sign of a more competitive
spirit.
As to demands on investors,
Schnauer said: “During 1953
our capital resources were called
upon to a greater extent than
ever before. The Government
alone raised in excess of £32
million—a peace-time record,
Local-body borrowing was ex-
ceptionally heavy, to a point
where a number of 10-year issues
at 4 p.c. were beginning to meet
with a hesitating response.”
N.Z. in its present stage of
lusty growth would have to give
more incentive to save and in-
vest if the flow was to keep pace
with current and prospective de-
mands.
Another chairman, J. R. Laid-
law, of Dunedin Stock
saw a threat of renewed inflation
in the November 10 p.c. wage-
rise, which upset all the Gov-
ernment’s planned and patient
efforts to curb costs and prices,
This wouldn’t help to channel
the necessary volume of money
into public and semi-public
works, to make good big arrears
of development and keep abreast
of high population-growth. An
investment outlook that saw 4
p.c. fixed-term securities as the
beginning and end of money’s
value and usefulness could
hardly be applauded.


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O'Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review' your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO I BE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from tins rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. PISHEB, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Concentration
on refining
n
;
isS
■
"ii,
1
,r>i-
mm
AS MORE AND MORE PEOPLE wish to
fly, and increasing numbers of air-
craft are brought into operation to
carry them, air transportation’s thirst
for oil grows.
To those who fly aircraft or who,
as passengers, are carried comfortably
and swiftly about the world, the
familiar sight of the green and yellow
fuellers of BP Aviation Service is the
outward sign of the very extensive
organisation working behind the
scenes to provide for these increasing
demands. But long before these
fuellers can perform their proper
function, adequate refinery capacity
must have been planned and built.
Anglo-Iranian is making stren-
uous efforts to increase its refinery
capacity, particularly to meet the
fuel demands of the new Jet Age.
Already new refineries are in produc-
tion, and expansion goes on apace in
Great Britain, Australia, Africa and
in Europe. This concentration on
refinery expansion will enable BP
Aviation Service to play its part in
meeting the air world’s future jet
fuel requirements.
SERVICE^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
3/53
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
This New Year finds Britons
in better heart than in any since
before the war. And that means
15 years at least, for the begin-
ning of 1939, with the agonies
of Munich fresh in memory, was
hardly a time for lighthearted
rejoicing. Nor, in the fullest
sense, is 1954. World tension
will still be with us after
Twelfth Night. But that doesn’t
get away from the heartening
fact that 1953 has been a good
year—for most of us, well and
away the best since the war.
Life has been easier. That
dismal concomitant of shortages,
austerity, has been shaken off.
Food is plentiful and various
and, for the most part, free of
rationing. Living-costs, if still
showing an upward trend, have
seemed fairly stable over the
past few months. The winter so
far has been bright, dry and
mild. We have, in fact,
thoroughly enjoyed our Christ-
mas.
What, then, of the cqming
year? Will 1954 prove to be
happier, more comfortable, more
secure? On the whole, most
people feel that it will. After a
hurtful, debilitating fall in
British prestige since 1945 there
are many encouraging signs of a
resurgence. Visitors, including
several influential Americans,
have remarked, with gratifica-
tion, upon Britain’s recovery.
They have welcomed our eco-
nomic revival, noticed our cheer-
fulness and confidence and,
most of all, applauded our states-
men for taking the initiative
again in trying hard, at the very
least, to influence the sorry
world towards some kind of de-
cency and order. Great Britain,
they declare, is back on her feet.
Yet the simple truth remains
that, in a year of outstanding
British achievement in some
fields, the average Briton frankly
does not know how he stands as
a citizen of the world. He hopes
that his leaders are making
ground. He believes, without any
doubt, that the Churchill-Eden
combination is not merely com-
petent so much as inspired. Yet
he feels to be no part of the
general scheme, as he most cer-
tainly was under the same leader-
ship during the war. The states-
men are working all the time
above his head. They seem not
so much leaders as backroom
boys.
A taste of old-style forthright
leadership, giving a hint or two
of what has been achieved, or is
capable of achievement, would
not come amiss as a tonic for
the New Year.
Political Stocktaking
The Conservative Govern-
ment has more than held its
own during a difficult year.
Difficult because it is the middle
year of the five. The beginning
of its term was marked by both
energy and restraint: the one in
coping with the mess left over
from previous incompetence and
the other on the part of its
critics and dissentients among
the back-benchers. Later on,
with a general election approach-
ing, a similar closing of ranks
may be expected. The third
year, with the Government at the
height of its establishment,
always tends to be rebellious.
Churchill had a nasty shock at
the revolt over increases in pen-
sions granted after the First
World War. There is a running
fight over the possible with-
drawal of the Suez Canal forces.
And the Cabinet, by an uncom-
promising attitude over com-
mercial television, has scarcely
put itself in the best light.
Mr. Butler has continued to
grow in strength and prestige,
on character and ability rather
than upon a good House of
Commons style. For all his
apparent mildness he has proved
himself to be incredibly tough,
both in the making (and hold-
ing) of decisions and in carry-
ing on during the absence of his
two senior colleagues.
The Cabinet has two big
worries, and neither looks like
getting any easier. One is
colonial unrest and the other is
industrial trouble at home. We
may have disproportionately few
Communists, but they have
readily and efficiently learned
the technique of the “token”
strike, which they have applied
in succession to electricians,
tanker-drivers and engineers. In
every case the disruption was
immediate and vital, if not pro-
tracted. The potential dangers
are real enough, particularly to
the export trade. Our wage-
structure, embarrassed as it is
by high taxation and welfare
expenditure, is near to bursting.
The workers themselves are in-
sensible of the economic facts of
life; but not so the foreign
buyer, especially when he gets
tenders from Germany. With
the unions overblown and flat-
footed, a heavy responsibility
has fallen upon the Minister of
Labor and his staff. It has been
discharged with consummate
patience, tact and skill.
A Writer’s Year
Indigenous authors have had
a good year in the theatre. Roger
Macdougall’s “Escapade” is a
play of ideas that is having a
long run. (It also netted a hefty
film contract but flopped on
Broadway.) Graham Greene’s
first play, as distinct from adap-
tation, “The Living Room,” is
capacity-booked. So is “The
Confidential Clerk,” T. S. Eliot’s
unaccountably amusing but un-
poetic exercise in illegitimacy.
At the close of the year we
had four in a row. The authors
provide an interesting study in
contrasts. Emlyn Williams is,
as it were, the theatre’s Senior
Wrangler who switches from one
activity to another with earnest,
academic competence. He is
himself appearing in “Someone
Waiting,” a rather far-fetched
and tenuous thriller.
N. C. Hunter, after 20 years
of unrewarded practice, sud-
denly found himself in the sur-
tax class with “Waters of the
Moon.” He has followed this
Chekhovian vehicle for star
actors by yet another entitled
“A Day by the Sea.” The
drawing-power of its stars —
three Knights and a Dame —is
the fulfilment of any author’s
wildest dream.
Then we had a failure, this
time from the ebullient Peter
Ustinov, whose wayward ex-
travaganza of a modern
Noah’s Ark excited the wrath
of the critics upon his misspent
genius.
The fourth is neither hard-
trier nor crashing virtuoso. He
is Wynyard Browne, a slow-
working craftsman who has a
tale to tell and spares no pains
in translating his ideas into
dramatic terms. Living quietly
in untheatrical Norfolk, he
allows himself about three years
to a play. But he does produce
something complete, substantial
and worth while.
“A Question of Fact” (Picca-
dilly Theatre) lacks the sentiment
and warm humanity of “The
Holly and the Ivy,” and is less
good —or less satisfying —as a
play. Perhaps this is because its
mood is more serious and its
theme more extreme. The cen-
tral character is a young classics-
master —new both to marriage
and a vocation he is well-fitted
for —who was adopted as a baby.
He learns that his father was a
crook and a murderer and feels
compelled to dig out the facts.
This brings unhappiness, soul-
searching and the undermining
of his life and health.
The appearance of his mother
and her quite unexpected
authority leads to the restora-
tion of his wellbeing and marital
contentment. A powerful
dramatic twist depends upon his
likeness to the murderer. The
mother really did love her hus-
band and, of all things, sees him
in her son! This situation is
worked a little too hard, but
superbly carried off by Gladys
Cooper. Paul Scofield plays the
schoolmaster with a wealth of
understanding, but Pamela
Brown has too strong a charac-
ter for the wife.
The author’s craftsmanship
sometimes speaks too consci-
ously for itself. He might with
advantage have pruned his cast
less severely. But it is a verit-
able treat to come upon a
dramatist who gives full mea-
sure, eschews all facility and
genuinely creates. He has given
us the best play of 1953.
Take-over Bids
There is considerable interest
outside as well as inside financial
circles in the David-and-Goliath
struggle between one man,
Harold Samuel, and the directors
of the Savoy Hotel group. Not
that Mr. Samuel, who 20 years
ago was a financial nobody, is a
mere slip of a boy so far as
worldly affairs go. He has
managed to acquire, on his own
account, nearly a third of the
shares in the Savoy, Berkeley
and Claridge’s hotels —sufficient,
it is held, to gain control.
The board, who obviously
mean to keep him out, if at all
possible, have formed another
company in great haste so that
they may anticipate Mr. Samuel’s
future action and themselves sell
their valuable freeholds and
lease them back to the hotels.
It is murmured that they
feared that, if they lost control,
the Savoy would cease to be one
of the world’s best-known hotels
and become a block of offices,
but Mr. Samuel has denied any
such intention. Eyes are on the
Berkeley, which has been losing
money. Its site in Piccadilly is
especially office-worthy.
There are considerable differ-
ences of opinion over the pro-
priety of these take-over bids.
The essence of them is that the
fixed assets, particularly bricks
and mortar and freeholds, are
book-valued at only a fraction
of their worth. Given sufficient
capital and business acumen,
“taking-over” has proved to be
both simple in method and a
very neat way of getting rich
quick, for the capital gains are
not taxable.
Reasons are also given for the
headlong scramble over the
Savoy group. It is said that, be-
cause of new building projects
in the City, demand for office
accommodation will probably
fall in a year or two. The gold-
rush, in fact, has all but had
its day.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Waist
and Queensland.
Which of these TRUSTEE SERVICES
will meet your Personal Needs?
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you in any of these matters —providing expert and permanent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed of Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT for the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company—or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees*’’
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charlevil
UT 16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd.
CJCRIP which offers security for both
capital and income with prospects of
future benefits, such as shares in a sound,
well-established and progressive insur-
ance office like this Sydney-controlled co.,
which has world-wide connections, always
commands a high premium in the market.
At 695. the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares give an
immediate return of only 3.6 p.c. on a
12£ p.c. div. basis. Thus the investor
who looks for, say, 5.2 p.c. on his money
counts on an 18 p.c. distribution and/or
other benefits.
At Sept. 30 last there were reserves
totalling £3,840,649 (£1,900,000 of it was
earmarked for unexpired risks) to sup-
port and assist the £1,500,000 of issued
share capital (there was only £460 of it to
come in), which had been doubled early
in 1951 by a par issue. It was the first cash
issue for over 40 years, paid capital having
advanced from £75,000 in 1910 to
£750,000 in 1934 by capitalisation of re-
serves. And the div., which was lifted
from 10 p.c. in 1948 to 12| p.c. in the
following year and has remained steady
since, looks as secure as anything of the
kind can look in an insecure world.
Despite a levelling-off of net premium
income and higher loss and expense rates,
the board was able to show £38,449 more
profit last term;
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 206,903 p.c. = 93,750 113,158 2,371,795
To reserve unexpired risks, £120,000.. 2,491,795
1950.. 226,501 12J p.c. = 93,750 132,751 2,624,546
To reserve unexpired risks, £250,000.. 2,874,546
1951.. 250,662 12J p.c. =105,469 145,193 3,019,739
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ~ 3,004,739
To reserve unexpired risks, £325,000.. 3,329,739
1952.. 285,215 12£ p.c. =140,625 144,590 3,474,329
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,459,329
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 3,684,329
1953.. 823,664 12i p.c. =152,344 171,320 3,855,649
To staff fund. £15,000 .. ~ 3,840,649
The £323,664 of profit claimed was 21.5
p.c. on capital as against 25.3 p.c. and
22.2 p.c, for the two preceding terms.
More pleasing is the fact that the net
return from investments (£188,911, up
£28,842) was a shade over 12y p.c. on
capital as it now stands, thus covering
the dividend charge and leaving the whole
of the net underwriting surplus of
£134,753 (up £9607), equal to 9 p.c,
on capital, available to swell investments
and the returns therefrom.
The co.’s Australian and New Zealand
operations account for the greater part
of profits. Overseas activities extend to
the U.K., where a large treaty and
marine business is done; to Africa, from
Cape Town to Cairo, where the organisa-
tion is still in course of development and
“should show satisfactory returns in the
near future”; and to India, Pakistan,
Malaya, Indonesia, Western Canada and
Jamaica.
Last term the improvement in net
premium income from all sources was
only £11,150. That was because a sharp
drop in marine revenue —due to legis-
lative restrictions on movement of goods
and fall in prices of some international
commodities, such as tin, rubber and
jute was only slightly more than
counterbalanced by a bigger volume of
fire and accident premiums:
~ , _ Net . , Loss Expense
kept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses, f Rate. Rate.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1949. . 1,705,881 829,824 691,039* 48.6 40.5
1950. .1,865,334 895,130 763.620* 47.9 40.9
1951. .2,469,470 1,124,171 993,429* 45.5 40 2
1952. .3,029,330 1,455,242 1.123,942* 48.0 37.1
1953. .3,040,480 1,495.828 1,184,899* 49.2 89.0
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
+ Including contributions to staff fund.
In the circumstances, and considering
the unsatisfactory experience in connec-
tion with motor-vehicle and third-party
risks, some increases in both the loss rate
(up 245. p.c.) and expense rate (up 38s.
p.c.) were to be expected. A slip of
£90,393 in the gross underwriting surplus
(£359,753) was more than offset by a
reduction of £lOO,OOO in the amount
(£225,000) sent to the reserve for unex-
pired risks, making it £1,900,000, equal
to 62.5 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 40 p.c. is usually considered ade-
quate. The net underwriting surplus was
thus £9607 stronger at £134,753, which
is a conservative figure. The volume of
marine business picked up toward and
since the close of accounts, and a better
net return is expected therefrom at next
balancing-date.
The strong protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in the fol-
lowing form:
1952. 1953.
£ p.c. £ p.C.
Govt, securities .. 2,524,767 32.0 3,429,423 39.8
Cash, etc 665,410 8.4 684,509 8.0
Shares, etc. .. 1,142.737 14.5 1,394,032 16.2
Mortgages .. .. 1,116,133 14.1 951.861 11.1
Book debts ..1,260,085 16.0 989,366 11.5
Freeholds .. .. 1,176,048 13.0 1,154,101 13.4
Total assets .. 7,885,180 100.0 8,603,292 100.0
Liabilities* .. 3,125,538 3,263,102
Net assets £4,759,642 £5,340,190
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The year’s growth of £904,656 in Gov-
ernment securities and of £251,295 in
shares, etc., augurs well for the net
return from investments, despite a reduc-
tion of £164,272 in mortgages.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
TNVESTMENT interest in this wide-
spread and expanding chain of retail
clothing, textile and furniture stores
centres largely upon possible growth of
future earnings following recent rapid
extension of the organisation, by absorp-
tions and otherwise, and upon prospects
of shareholders being asked to assist in
consolidation of the capital structure
later on—no new share-issue is contem-
plated at an early date.
Since the close of accounts in 1950,
£514,558 has been added to paid capital,
lifting it to £1,165,490 in 167,475 £1 A
and 123,015 £1 B prefs., both 7 p.c.
cumulative, and 3,500,000 ords. of ss.
each, last 808,232 of which were put out
at par in 1950. The ords, have had a
steady p.c. for the last 11 years. In
Feb., 1953, those on the ord. register put
up £250,000 in 6 p.c. notes, redeemable
Jan. 31, 1959, or convertible into ords.
on a par basis at Aug. 31, 1958, at holder’s
option.
The organisation consists of a chain of
42 stores —11 Victoria, 11 Westralia, eight
N. S. Wales, six S. Australia, five Tas-
mania and one at Canberra—as well as
a buying-office in London (set up in
1951) and two other wholly-owned con-
cerns. The latter are Economic Stores
(Perth) and A. Cummings and Sons
(Hobart), each of which is reported to be
giving a good account of itself —both
these businesses were bought a couple of
years ago, the one at Perth for £353,500
and the other at Hobart for an unstated
figure, which included £81,075 for the
freehold. Several small undertakings were
also bought and welded into the oraanisa-
tion over the last few years. Before the
close of accounts in 1951, 21 of the older
freeholds were independently revalued
and written up in the books by £378,720,
of which £42,070 was used to rub good-
will out of the accounts.
A few weeks ago the co. further
widened the spread of its net by purchase
of the freehold and reputedly-prosperous
softgoods retail-business of Sydney Snow
Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Financial details of
the transaction, which is said to have in-
volved over £li million, have not been
disclosed, nor are shareholders to be
asked to assist. Sir Sydney Snow, prin-
cipal shareholder in the vendor co., is
to reinvest a “substantial sum” in the
business for a minimum period of five
years. The freehold has a frontage of
110 ft. to Liverpool-street, and, together
with an adjoining leasehold, of 150 ft, to
Pitt-street. The factory of La Mode
Holdings, Ltd. (Melb.), has also been
bought for use as a dispatch depot.
Earnings, which have suffered a certain
amount of dislocation on account of
rapid expansion, have mostly followed
general trends in the retail trade. Last
term the economic-barometer rose as the
year advanced, and turnover (amount un-
stated) increased by 16 p.c. After setting
aside £22,975 (up £6564) for depreciation
and £101,277 (up £41,027) for taxation,
the net result was £20,915 stronger at
£101,446:
—Dividends ,
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 7i p.c.= 24,781 167,862
1949.. 55,519 11,724 8,610 H „ ~ 27,034 176,013
To contingencies reserve, £lO,OOO .. 186,013
1950.. 67,074 11,724 8,610 7J p.c.= 27,033 205,720
Revaluation assets, £378,720 .. 584,440
1951.. 102,413 11,724 8,610 10 p.c.= 56,250 610,269
Profit sale assets, £54,158 ;
net addit’n property res., £21,719.. 631,988
1952.. 80,531 11,724 8,610 7* p.c.= 65,625 626,560
Profit sale freehold. £69,142 ..695,702
Reduction revaluation res., £40,550 655,152
1953.. 101,446 11,724 8,610 71 p.c.= 65,625 670,639
* After deducting goodwill (£42,070), written out
of accounts in 1951.
The £101,446 covered the pref. require-
ments and 9.3 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 6.9, 14.4, 13, 9.8 and 12,1 p.c.
back to 1948. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was only 5.5 p.c. Since this is less
than the rates payable on the notes and
pref, capital, the ords. can thank the
£670,639 of reserves for their 1\ p.c.
For these and other reasons any increase
in the ord. div. seems unlikely until the
expanded organisation gets more firmly
into its stride.
During the year four surplus freeholds
were sold—two at a profit of £69,142 and
the other two at approximately original
purchase-prices—and three new ones were
bought. The net reduction in the book-
value of the item was £63,480:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 650,932 852,990 1,165,490 1,165,490
Notes .. .. 250,000
Mortgages .. 400,000 902,920 940,500 864,844
Overdraft .. 343,234 598,745 456,482 437,059
Creditors . . 90,525 174,920 231,201 101,553
Tax provision.. 30,000 116,000 98,750 103,500
Final divs. .. 23,683 45,323 53,917 42,979
Freeholds .. 526,235 1,369,289 1,336,034 1,272,554
Leaseholds .. 26,895 42,942 56,099 53,128
Plant .. 131,261 168,279 248,426 290,262
Stocks .. 545,462 1,004,998 1,183,009 1,048,680
Debtors - . . 508,666 704,792 730,526 953,455
Cash, bonds .. 5,575 10,867 19,804 17,985
Thus, together with a reduction of
£134,329 in stocks and the new note-issue,
the co. was able to carry £222,929 more
book-debts, add £41,836 to plant and re-
duce mortgages by £75,656, the overdraft
by £19,423 and amount coming to sundry
creditors by £129,648. There was an im-
provement of £67,696 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£220,185).
The ords. at 7s. lid. (6s, lOd. a year
ago) give an immediate return of 4.7 p.c.
on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 5.7 p.c. on his money counts on
a 9 p.c. distribution or other benefits.
The A and B prefs. at 245. 6d. and 235.
yield 5.7 p.c. and 6.1 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £lO 19s. 3d. A’s,
£l3 11s. 4d. B’s and Bs. lid. ords.
Com’wealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
WELL-HANDLED, financially and
otherwise, this 18-year-old group—
parent holding co. and nine operating
subsidiaries —has given a good account
of itself, and promises to continue to do
so. The parent kicked off with the
blessing of the big British Oxygen Co.
(London), which owns a majority interest,
and set about bringing under one control
the activities of a number of widely-
scattered concerns engaged in production
of oxygen, acetylene and other industrial
and medical gases and ancillary equip-
ment, etc. Prime aims were to eliminate
waste in overlapping, achieve greater
economy in buying and selling and
hasten development, technical and other-
wise, to the benefit of both consumers
and shareholders.
Of the nine subsidiaries, six make in-
dustrial gases, etc., one manufactures in-
dustrial- and medical-gas equipment, and
the other two turn out electrodes and arc-
and resistance-welding equipment. The
policy has been to follow the market by
setting up new factories as demand war-
ranted in metropolitan areas and country
centres throughout the Commonwealth ;
and the British co. has been a pillar of
strength, technically and financially.
•Paid capital, £850,000 at the beginning,
is now £3,000,000, of which £486,105 is
bonus scrip, handed out during the 1951
term, when a couple of points were
chipped off the div., reducing it to 8 p.c.,
which is equal to 9.5 p.c. on capital as
it now stands, less the bonus element
already referred to. The gift was accom-
panied by a cash-issue of 1,055,581 new
£1 shares at par, in order to lighten the
debt to the London co. To finance
further expansion £1,000,000 was raised
on unsecured registered notes over the last
couple of years, one half at 4J p.c. and the
other half at p.c., the lot maturing
between 1958 and 1962 —and these notes
are earning more than their keep.
A year ago, when the economy was
suffering from the backwash of the
balance-of-payments crisis, the cautious
board said it was unlikely that profits
would be maintained at the 1952 level.
But conditions improved as the year ad-
vanced, and so did the co.’s turnover.
After allowing £389,025 (up £142,720)
for depreciation and £418,540 (down
£5600) for taxation at the reduced rates,
there was a heartening spring of £129,816
in last term’s net earnings;
Parent and Subsidiaries-
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1950 .. 310,790 10 = 174,998 t 135,792 899.894
Reserves capitalised, £486,105 .. 418,789
Capital profit, £3965 417,754
1951 .. 239,939 8 = 204,814 35,125 452,879
Capital profit, £9485 .. .. .. 462,314
1952 .. 445,885 8 = 240,000 205,885 668,199
Capital profit, £5955 .. .. .. 674,154
1953 .. 575,701 8 = 240,000 335,701 1,009,855
* After deducting excess cost over net tangible
value shares in subsidiaries on incorporation, now
eliminated from books and including special reserve
for depreciation (now £241,693).
t Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip issued Oct., 1950.
Heavy reduction of conservatively valued
stocks may have helped to bump up net
earnings, too. The £575,701 of profit
claimed was equal to 19.1 p.c. on capital
as against 14.8, 9.5, 21,3, 11.5 and 18.9
back to 1948. The div. was kept at
8 p.c., leaving £335,701 (58.3 p.c.) of the
year’s profit to plough back into the
business, and so help safeguard the finan-
cial future of shareholders and employees.
During the year a final £300,000 was
raised by the issue of notes, already
referred to, and, since the supply position
in respect of raw materials eased, stocks
were reduced by £866,623;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £2,999,713 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Unsecured notes .. 700,000 1,000,000
Overdraft .. 183,871 304,249
Creditors .. .. 315,852 767,295 468,843
Tax provision .. 449,846 642,473 729,636
Pinal div 115,208 135,000 135,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 843,092 1,252,812 1,239,793
Plant, etc. .. 1,477,285 1,751,865 1,925,234
Investments .. 34,426 36,624 36,624
Stocks .. .. 1,467.930 2,346,038 1,479,415
Book debts .. 693,486 828,565 872,854
Cash, etc. .. 1,150 1,312 789,414
Thus the board was able to wipe out the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Ai>vt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined
by the above Act, are hereby notified
that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New
South Wales, returns showing the total
amount of the premiums received by or
due to such companies in respect of
risks against fire during the year ending
31st December, 1958, within the Sydney
Fire District and every other Fire Dis-
trict in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1949, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of re-
insurance to any other insurance com-
panies contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1954, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the amount of such premiums paid by
them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1953.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 81st
January, 1954, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in
any Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
218 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CONCERN requires £5,000
to £lO,OOO extra capital for extension.
Directorship, Executive position open.
Reply “INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT”
c/- LANDER & ROGERS, Solicitors. 31
Queen Street, Melbourne, or phone
JL 9397,
TAKE
QUESTION MARK
FROM YOUR FUTURE
A National Mutual Policy provides
one of the most stable investments
in the world . . . one which safe-
guards your old age, protects your
dependants, and guarantees a
happy financial future.
Link up with The National Mutual.
An experienced officer is available to
advise you. Call, write or ring.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION A/ASIA. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 186 V (INC. IN VICT.)
N.S.W. OFFICE* 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 8L1271
A
r
4
V
the name is
CI) c CdlUims
the whisky is
s«*»
MCI 8/6.2
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST BE AGED
only in the wood can age
be achieved; and McCallum’s
is mellowed with years
of care, and by the
skilled attention of
Scots distillers.
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
overdraft (£304,249 at the pre-
vious balance), reduce the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors by £298,452 (£250,000 of it
was repayment of a loan
the London co.), carry an extra
£44,289 of book-debts, strengthen
the holding of cash, etc., by
£788,102, and add £173,369 net
to the book-value of plant, etc.
Growth of the last-mentioned
item reflects completion of new
acetylene and oxygen factories
at Alexandria (near Sydney),
erection of new gas-producing
units at Preston (Vic.), now near-
ing completion, and additions to
gas plants at Perth and Hobart,
as well as to factories in the
electrical section at Melbourne
and Sydney. And presently new
plant is to be installed for the
production of argon gas, used in
welding non-ferrous metals and
which is imported from Britain.
In the electrical section, where
competition is keenest, there is
a growing demand for the co.’s
electrodes and welding equip-
ment, and, with the promise of
some degree of stability in indus-
try, the chairman says sales for
the current term should be not
less than last year’s.
The market expresses its confi-
dence in the future of the under-
taking by pricing the f.-p. £1
shares at 425. 3d. (365. Bd. a year
ago) to return only 3.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. So the in-
vestor who looks for 4.7 p.c. on
his money counts on the div.
climbing to 10 p.c. again. Net
tangible coyer is 265. 9d.
Provincial Traders (Bris.)
T}OALED in the Fairymead
Sugar stable (C. A. N. Young
heads both concerns), the Pro-
vincial Traders group consists
of parent and three manufactur-
ing and distributing subsidiaries
—Provincial Traders Pty., mar-
garine, dripping and meat-meal;
Fertiliser Distributors Pty., fer-
tilisers and pesticides; and Fon-
dants (Qld.) Pty., sugar products.
It has freehold factories (mar-
garine, fertilisers, etc.) at Murar-
rie, to which extensive additions
have been made in the last two
years, and another (margarine)
at Kangaroo Point.
The margarine and fertiliser
offshoots kicked off in 1929 with
paid capitals together less than
£10,000; by 1938 combined
shareholders’ funds were about
£lB,OOO, and annual sales around
£lOO,OOO. Demand in the war
and post-war years, when south-
ern suppliers couldn’t meet
Queensland needs, pushed the
cos. ahead rapidly. In No-
vember, 1950, the newly-formed
holding co. paid about £130,000
in scrip for all the capital in the
proprietaries; and, in March,
1951, a cash issue to shareholders
and others took its paid capital
to £250,000.
Holding-co. shareholders have
received steady 8 p.c. divs.:
Parent and Subsidiary.*
Re-
June. Profit. f —Dividends—\ serves.
£ £ £
1951 . . 24,104 4 p.c.t= 10,000 3,809
Undistributed profits tax, £1332 2,477
Unexplained addition, £4 .. 2,481
1952 . . 34.631 8 p.c. = 20,000 17,112
1953 . . 49,802 8 „ „ 23,200 43,714
* After deducting outside interests.
t For six months.
Last term’s improvement of
£15,171 in net earnings (44 p.c.)
was due partly to higher sales
revenue (up £146,655, or 12 p.c.)
and partly to lower tax-rates;
and also, claims the board, to
new labor-saving production
techniques: -
Consolidated Figures.
1951. 1952. 1958.
Sales .. £814,516 £1,194,594 £1,341.249
Trading
profit .. 63,390 71,190 90,041
Deprecia-
tion .. 18,286 8,279 10,079
Tax .. 21,000 28,280 30,160
Net profit 24,104 34,631 49,802
P.c. to
sales .. 2.96 2.90 3.71
The £49,802 claimed equalled
17.2 p.c. on average capital em-
ployed, as against 13.9 p.c. in
1952. Thus £26,602, more than
half the year’s profit, remained to
supplement the still-slender re-
serves after paying an 8 p.c. div.
To help finance the growth in
business and in productive capa-
city, those on the register in
December, 1952, put up a
further £BO,OOO at par. With
£25,001 more owing to creditors,
etc., and surplus profits, the new
money was used mainly to add
£52,690 net to fixed assets,
£57,332 to stocks, and £1276 to
book-debts, as well as to clip
£12,747 off the overdraft:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Outside
interests 679 1,383
Overdraft .. —• 85,972 73,225
Creditors .. 74,369 87,184 112,185
provision 20,982 40,399 30,378
Final divs. 10,000 10,000 11,600
Freeholds .. 60,537 90,965 113,254
Plant, etc. 69,570 110,055 140,456
Stocks .. 130,663 159,678 216,910
Debtors .. 96,196 129,217 130,493
Cash, etc. 2,194 1,531 1,372
Financially, the set-up is healthy
and well-balanced. At balance-
date there was 11s. 7d. in liquids
for every £ coming to outsiders.
The Queensland Government
in 1952 granted Provincial
Traders Pty. (the only margar-
ine-manufacturer in the northern
State) a licence to make 1000
tons of table-margarine a year.
Other suppliers hold licences to
sell 5860 tons. So far the co,
hasn’t had the capacity to take
full advantage of the greatly-
increased quota ; most of its pro-
duction has been of industrial
margarine (used by bakers,
pastrycooks, etc.). But it expects
to step-up output in its new fac-
tory early in 1954, and future
earnings should benefit accord-
ingly.
At present there is nothing to
suggest a sharp contraction in
the group’s sales or profits, and
the long-term prospect seems
sound enough, too. The holding
co.’s £1 shares last sold at 275.,
to return 5.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net assets cover is 225. Bd.
each.
Tableland Tin Dredging
Shareholders have reason to
be satisfied with the progress
made in transferring the co.’s
2000-ton bucket-dredge—it had
worked out all but a small frac-
tion of the old Return Creek
area (N.Q.) —to the new site
on Black’s Creek, a tributary of
Smith’s Creek, about six miles
away.
During its life on the old area
(Feb., 1943, to July 15, 1952) the
dredge handled 32,531,000 c.y. of
wash for a return of 5539 tons
tin concentrates, an average of
0.381 b. (6.080 z.) to. per c.y., and
the co. paid divs. totalling
£171,911.
The machine was worked into
a docking site, and dismantling
began on July 15, 1952. Trans-
port —a contract job at 255. a ton
for the eight-mile road-haul —
commenced on Oct. 1 and
finished on Dec. 4, 1952, when
reassembly and bolting-up of the
pontoon commenced. Actual
digging on the new site started
on Nov. 5, 1953, some 16 months
after operations ceased at Return
Creek, which was in accordance
with schedule.
Meanwhile a transmission-line
connecting the co.’s power-plant
at Mt. Garnet with the new
property was erected, an 18in.
water-pipe line was laid from
the Return Creek dam to supple-
ment the 180-million gallon
storage at Smith’s Creek, a new
access-road was constructed and
various buildings erected.
Total cost to the co. of the
entire work at June 30 last was
£218,891, which was capitalised
—£145,635 of it on dredge
account. The final cost-figure
is expected to be within the
original estimate of £300,000, up
to which amount the Queens-
land Government has guaran-
teed the co.’s overdraft.
There is about two years’ work
ahead of the dredge at Black’s
Creek, after which the machine
will work its way into the
Smith’s Creek section, which
contains 50,000,000 c.y. Average
bore-value of ground of both
areas is 0.691 b. (11.20 z.) t.o. per
c.y., and an 80 p.c. recovery is
expected. On the old property
dredging-costs were around 17d.
per c.y. So, with metallic tin
at, say, £S6SO per ton, appear-
ances are that the dredge will be
able to earn satisfactory annual
profits, of which the first £50,000
go to Tableland, plus 85 p.c. of
any balance, and the other 15
p.c. to the vendor.
Paid capital is £326,000 in
80.000 8 p.c. participating prefs.
and 240,000 ords., all of £1 each,
and 120,000 deferreds of Is. each.
The market prices the ords. at
18s. or thereabouts.
The well-handled and pros-
perous Austral Malay Tin Co.
has just taken an option from
Titanium Minerals, Ltd., over
15.000 acres in the Woodburn
area, Richmond River (N.S.W.),
which it is to test for titanium.
If the option is exercised Austral
Malay is to float a new co. to
work the ground, and Titanium
Minerals will obtain a vendor’s
interest and/or cash according
to the value of the property. Be-
fore the war titanium was re-
garded more or less as a metal-
lurgical curiosity. Only since the
war have some of the chemical
and other problems relating to
its extraction, treatment and use
been solved. In these respects a
lot of valuable work has been
done by Professor Worner, of
Melbourne University, and by the
C.5.1.R.0. The commercial im-
portance of the metal now lies in
its combination of strength and
toughness, lightness and freedom
from rust, which makes it
superior to aluminium, and in
some cases to steel, for use in
connection with many aeroplane
parts. The problem of handling
the high temperatures developed
in the use of jet-engines has also
greatly increased the importance
of titanium.
m * *
*
About 14 miles south of Nulla-
gine, on the Pilbara field (W.A.),
a 100-acre mineral claim has
been pegged with the right to
prospect for columbite, tantalite,
tin and mica. At the moment
there are only a dozen or so
igougers working small gold
shows in the Nullagine belt.
m * ~-
There has been a revival of
interest in the mineral deposits
of the Shaw River basin (W.A.).
Here 4400-odd acres, covering
the river-bed for a distance of
15 miles up-stream from a gorge
near the old North Shaw gold
workings, has been pegged by
S. H. Stubb, of Marble Bar, as
dredging claims for tin, tantalite,
columbite and gold. In places
the river is over a mile wide.
The deep sand overburden, up
to 40ft. in places, stood in the
way of exploitation of the area
for tin in the early days. It is
expected that B.H.P. will soon
begin an extensive sampling of
the claims under an option
agreement.
Western Mining Corp, is to
prospect for uranium on two
areas of 300 acres each, which
cover the old Lalla Rookh gold-
field, about 50 miles north-east
of Marble Bar (W.A.). The old
Lalla Rookh mine was discov-
ered in 1899, and was worked by
an English co. for about seven
years, when costs won the race.
Since then several syndicates and
small cos. have operated on the
field in a perfunctory way. The
main gold lease is now held by
D. W. McLeod, but is not in-
cluded in W.M.C.’s prospecting
rights.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
At the beginning of 1953 this Letter
was told that what the women of Aus-
tralia wanted first and foremost from
the coming year was “Peace,” so it was
grand to see the old year go out with a
truce in Korea and no new hostilities on
the immediate horizon.
☆ ☆ ☆
In regard to other aims of women’s
organisations the year hasn’t been so
happy. The Housewives’ Association
wanted milk at reduced prices, so did
the National Council of Women, but this
will have to take top place on the agenda
for 1954. The Housewives also wanted
better bread at a lower price. Another
hope daunted. The Country Women’s
Association looked for a general
improvement in moral standards. Ah,
well!
☆ ☆ ☆
Outstanding event in the year in all
English-speaking countries was of course
the Coronation. Sydney decorated her
streets brilliantly in patches, not at all
in other patches. Many people were
disappointed in the fireworks display,
but everyone was happy about the broad-
cast and later the moving-pictures of the
event. The documentary A Queen Is
Crowned was undoubtedly one of the
finest film achievements of the year.
* ☆ ☆
Tremendous numbers of people de-
serted Sydney for London at this time,
but enough remained to attend dances
and balls all named the Coronation, the
Tiara, the Elizabethan or the Pageant,
and of these the most colorful was,
appropriately enough, the ball of the
Royal Empire Society, which presented
the pageant “From Colony to Crown.”
☆ if ☆
The year bore away with it the familiar
and dignified figure of Queen Mary,
whose death removed another reminder
of an earlier time’s security. In Sydney
the death of Lady Anderson was a great
loss to the ranks of those who work for
charity, for music and for the Uni-
versity,
☆ ☆ ☆
During the year Sydney heard two
distinguished women singers, Irmgard
Seefried and Joan Hammond, whose
seasons at the Town Hall were a delight.
Australian violinist Perry Hart returned
for a tour of Australia and local singers
Marjorie Conley and Tessa Schell each
won important vocal contests. Margaret
Barton, pianist, was another young
musician who showed great promise.
* ☆ *
In literature women were active during
1953. Judith Wright’s book of poems
The Gateway was published and novels
appeared by Kylie Tennant, Nourma
Handford, Helen Fowler (whose book
The Shades Will Not Vanish was very
successful in America), Helen Heney,
Marjorie Robertson, Joan Phipson (her
book Good Luck to the Rider voted one
of the two best books for children written
in 1953) and Pixie O’Harris. The an-
thology of Australian poetry for 1953
was edited by a woman, Nan McDonald.
* ☆ *
The visit of Jessie Matthews was of
interest to Australians. Even more so
was the visit of Joy Nichols, beginning
with so much acclamation and success,
ending with physical breakdown, squab-
bling and disillusionment. This episode
was one of the unhappy little bits of 1953.
☆ ☆ ☆
The season of the Stratford-on-Avon
company at the Tivoli and its presenta-
tion of “Othello,” “Henry IV” and “As
You Like It” was Sydney’s best gift from
theatre during the year and made many
converts to Shakspeare as well as pleas-
ing the devotees. Most interesting opera
was Menotti’s “The Consul,” with clever
production by Stefan Haag and a beauti-
ful performance by Marie Collier.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of the repertory theatres’ productions
the most memorable was “Death of a
Salesman” at the Independent, and at the
Mercury “The Happy Time.” It is in-
teresting to note that the film of “The
Happy Time,” which was seen later in
the year, in no way excelled the Mer-
cury’s presentation. At the Metro-
politan, the revue “Metropolitan Merry-
go-round” was “most excellent fooling,”
witty, lively and a credit to its authors
and producers.
☆ ☆ *
Dr. Frances Moran, a lawyer from
Dublin, was one of the most interesting
speakers to come to these shores during
the year, and Miss Lilace Barnes, world
president of the Y.W.C.A., was another
visitor of charm and distinction. Mrs.
Jacqueline Odium (or Cochrane), the
American aviatrix, came here full of
goodwill for a short visit but shot out of
Australia almost as quickly as she had
previously shot through the sound-
barrier, so disgusted was she with the
treatment she received from an Aus-
tralian hotel. This was one of the blush-
raising episodes of 1953.
Sydney composer of note is Dulcie
Holland, who during the year won the
A.B.C.’s composers’ competition with her
Divertimento for violin and piano. Miss
Holland is in private life Mrs. Alan Bell-
house and her husband is also well-known
in musical circles, being the conductor of
the North Shore .Symphony Orchestra
and the director of the Sydney Madrigal
Society. Photo by Hugh Spencer .
Mrs. Richard Nixon, wife of the Vice-
President of the U.S.A., gave an amazing
display of poise and unfaltering amia-
bility while she was here with her hus-
band. Dr. Lilian Gilbreth, business-
efficiency expert and the mother
immortalised in Cheaper by the Dozen
was another American visitor during
the year.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another American visitor of lively per-
sonality and keen mind was Mrs. Esther
van Wagoner Tufty, a journalist whose
work is syndicated to 300 newspapers.
She seemed to think too that Australian
hotels could be improved.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Leslie Whateley, director of the
World Association of Girl Guides, also
toured Australia during the year and was
here for three months. Her visit is re-
membered with pleasure.
☆ ☆ ☆
As for exhibitions and shows, it is
obvious there is great interest in anything
to do with home-building and -furnishing.
Exhibitions at the Town Hall were always
well patronised, and displays by archi-
tects and equipment-manufacturers drew
large crowds. Displays of old china and
silver were also popular, and there seemed
to be very good patronage for flower-
shows and -arrangements. A particularly
good exhibition of interior-decoration
was held at the Woollahra Arts Council,
where decorating schemes, mostly in the
modern manner, were shown in their
proper setting.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of the art shows undoubtedly the
most striking was the exhibition of
French modern paintings at the National
Art Gallery. Not only did it attract
great numbers of people (quite a feat
when one considers the gallery’s “re-
mote geographical situation” as it has
been called), but also it made several
converts to the brilliance and drive of
modern painting when it is really well
done.
MELCCUBNC
The news that the Prime Minister’s
wife had been awarded the Dame Grand
Cross of the British Empire was received
with great delight in this city, for Dame
Pattie Menzies’s grace and charm have
long been admired. Before she went to
Canberra to preside as hostess at the
Prime Minister’s Lodge Dame Pattie held
important executive posts with the
auxiliaries of the Women’s Hospital.
From December, 1942, to 1945 she was
vice-president of the combined auxiliaries
and from 1945 to 1950 was president.
The award to Lady Latham of a C.B.E.
is another richly-deserved honor. For
20 years the wife of the ex-Chief Justice
has been president of the Children’s
Hospital. In addition to her splendid
work in this field she played an important
part in the foundation of the Victorian
Society for Crippled Children.
Another recipient of the C.B.E. is Dr.
Kate Campbell, and it comes as a reward
for the many years of service she has
given to the welfare of mothers and
babies and the training of infant-welfare
nurses. Dr. Campbell is on the honorary
medical staff of the Women’s and Queen
Victoria Hospitals and she is the senior
medical officer of the Victorian Baby
Health Centres’ Association.
Miss Hilda Daniell, who was head-
mistress of Ruyton Girls School, Kew,
for 40 years, received an 0.8. E. in the
New Year’s Honors. Educated at the
school whose head she became after hav-
ing joined the staff as a pupil teacher.
Miss Daniell was a headmistress of great
understanding and influence and a
moulder of character par excellence.
- A foundation member of the Australian
Imperial League of Sailors, Soldiers and
Airmen’s Womenfolk, Mrs, R. A. Gordon,
of Abbotsford, received the M.B.E. The
league, formed in 1919, cares for ex-
servicemen and their dependants. Mrs.
Gordon served on the executive from
the league’s formation, was vice-presi-
dent for a number of years and for the
past 15 years has been president. She
also works for the blind, and is a visitor
for the Melbourne Ladies’ Benevolent
Society.
Mrs. R. W. Spraggett, whose husband.
Colonel Spraggett, is private-secretary to
the Governor, is the daughter of the late
Sir John Power, Bt., and Lady Power,
formerly of Newlands Manor, Lymington,
Hampshire. Since her arrival with her
husband, daughter Elizabeth Anne and
son lan, Mrs. Spraggett has become
closely connected with the Women’s Hos-
pital and is a member of the committee.
She is also greatly interested in the wel-
fare of English migrants. Her lively wit
makes her an excellent hostess and charm-
ing guest. Photo by John Warlow.
Kooyong during the memorable Davis
Cup matches became quite a fashion-
parade. Lady Brooks wore either her
favorite blue or navy ensembles. Heather
Menzies teamed a light-grey cotton
skirt with a pink-and-grey-striped cotton
blouse, and next day a full black cotton
skirt and an emerald-green cotton
blouse. Lady George, wife of S.A.’s
Governor, wore over a slim frock of
junior-navy faille a tent-coat of pale-
orchid-pink faille. With these went a
navy picture-hat which had overbrims
of tulle.
Mrs. Harold Holt’s pale-pink-and-
white-striped cotton frock was worn
with a shady hat of natural straw
trimmed with shells. An attractive hat
peaked and fashioned of shaggy raffia
was worn by Sarah Hordern of Sydney.
Lady Manifold wore a full skirt of scar-
let cotton and a scarlet-and-white-
checked blouse. Her daughter Sally
wore a green-and-white-checked cotton
skirt with a white blouse. Very smart
was the charcoal-grey shantung frock
and white eggshell cap chosen by Mrs.
Neville Palmer, and the jacket of black-
and-white-striped ticking which Mrs.
John Summons wore with a black linen
skirt and tiny mushroom hat. Mrs.
Des. Hollywood’s striking skirt of pink
and black cotton was worn with a black
cotton blouse.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the buffet-dinner given at Chevron
by the vice-president of the Lawn Tennis
Association, Norman Strange, and Mrs.
Strange, the host and hostess had the
assistance of their daughter, Mrs. Dawn
Hutchinson, and son and daughter-in-
law, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Strange. Mrs.
Norman Strange wore a black organza
ballerina frock mounted on watermelon-
pink taffeta; black velvet flowers were
appliqued on the organza. Dawn teamed
a white organdie blouse with a full water-
melon-pink skirt, and Mrs. Frank Strange
chose a fine black linen frock embroidered
with beads. Their guests included Mr.
and Mrs. Clifford Sproule, Mr. and Mrs.
Esca Stephens, Mr. and Mrs. G. Sample,
Lady Connelly, Mr. and Mrs. John Car-
rodus and Mr. and Mrs. Don Ferguson.
# # #
U.S. Consul-General Henry Stebbins
and Mrs. Stebbins gave a fate-afternoon
party at the end of the second day’s play
in the Davis Cup. Mrs. Stebbins received
her guests wearing a wide-skirted frock
of benedictine faille. The U.S. Ambassa-
dor, Mr. Amos Peaslee, was with his
wife, she wearing a white Honan silk
frock patterned in black, daughter Doro-
thy, whose white cotton frock was gaily
patterned in red holly and green leaves,
and son Dougal.
Sir Clive McPherson was accompanied
by daughter Marion and Sir Edmund
Herring by Lady Herring. Sir Norman
and Lady Brookes and Sir Clive and
Lady Steele were there, and of course
the players.
Bunty McConnan, attractive in a scar-
let frock, was with her fiance, F. J, H.
Moreton; Jacynth Lindsay wore a brod-
erie Anglaise frock which featured a rose-
filled “window-box” bodice ; Mrs. John
Howse wore a pink crinoline straw boater,
a white gold-striped blouse and full black
faille skirt.
Mrs. David Symes added a large black
tulle hat to hei black-and-white-patterned
frock. Mrs. John Middleton contrasted
her black linen frock with a scarlet stole.
Mrs, James Clark was smart in white tie-
silk skirt pin-spotted in black and a black
nylon blouse.
V V V
Mrs. Michael Parker, wife of the Duke
of Edinburgh’s equerry, Lieut.-Com-
mander Parker, who has come to Aus-
tralia to attend several of the functions
arranged for the Queen’s visit, was guest-
of-honor at an afternoon-tea party at the
Windsor Hotel, when her hostesses were
Mrs. Peter Parker (sister-in-law) and Mrs.
Desmond Hollywood. Mrs. Parker wore
a sleeveless white nylon blouse with a
full skirt of black faille and a small cap
of black straw lace. A small jade-green
hat and black frock comprised Mrs. Peter
Parker’s choice, while Mrs. Hollywood
wore a navy nylon frock and white straw
bonnet.
Guests included Mrs. lan Purvis, whose
cinnamon-brown jacket-suit was worn
with a pale-gold straw cap; Mrs. W. E.
Coles, wearing a tailored frock of London-
tan linen and a winter-white felt beret;
Mrs. Knox Knight, who matched her
charcoal-grey tailored frock with a small
felt hat; Mrs. G. C. Molyneux, in grey-
and-pink-shot taffeta frock and small
beige-straw mushroom-cloche ; and Mrs.
Alex Lynch,who wore grey with a rasp-
berry-red hat.
☆ * *
More than 300 guests saw the new
year in at Chevron. Among those who
entertained ’ were Mr. and Mrs. John
Carrodus, she attractive in a gown of
blue-and-black-checked nylon. Their
guests included Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Korman (her ballerina frock was of
turquoise-blue faille), Mrs'. S. Aarons,
whose choice was a black Chantilly-lace
frock, Mrs. Frank Christie, wearing
steel-grey satins, Mrs. C. Kristos, who
wore black nylons, and Mr. Charles
Lewis, from U.S.A. Others who danced
and dined were Mrs. Oscar Nette, Mr.
and Mrs. Rolfe Sabine of Adelaide,
Sydney visitors Mr. and Mrs. A. Berk-
man, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Robson, Mr.
and Mrs. Kenneth Brown and the Roy
Turners from Adelaide,


Missing Friends
OXLEE. —Will any of the relations of
Kit, Maude or Harry Oxlee please write
to Ted Oxlee. Jnr., P.O, Box 1874,
Johannesburg, South Africa, regarding re-
establishment of family contact with
heirs of late Edward Oxlee, died 1938.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Sydney Stage, 1953
It being the custom at this
time of the new year to look
back over last year’s theatrical
doings, it can be recorded that
1953 got away to a very good
start theatrically with the Shak-
speare Memorial Theatre com-
pany from Stratford giving
three very good productions —
“Othello,” “As You Like It”
and Part One of “Henry IV” —
at Sydney Tiv.
The Stratford season was more
noted for its production and
teamwork than for individual
performances, although Keith
Michell’s fiery Hotspur and
the lago, the Touchstone and the
Glendower of Leo McKern were
things to remember. Both Mc-
Kern and Michell are Austra-
lians, and it was interesting to
note that their work seemed to
have a lot more guts in it than
the smooth acting of some other
members of the company
polished and perfect though it
was. Going by such samples as
are seen out here, that seems a
possible weakness of English act-
ing ; it is all intellectual detail
and beautiful surface polish with
insufficient human vigor coming
through it.
, Anthony Quayle himself gave
a good demonstration of that
weakness —as have others before
him. Both his Othello and his
Falstaff were admirably put to-
gether, but, although they fol-
lowed the book perfectly, as it
were, there was not enough be-
neath the surface. In both roles
it was all acting from the head.
Falstaff in particular needed a
lot less booming buffoonery and
a lot more deep, calculating
villainy. Falstaff is not a comic
villain, not a clown; he is a
villain and he is funny. There is
a world of difference between
the two. If one were casting Fai-
staff one should look for some-
thing like the late Wallace Beery
at his best —a vast man ; a great
whisky voice ; a hard, unscrupu-
lous villain of a man and not a
little cruel; a tough man ; and,
withal, ingratiatingly humorous
and with a supreme sense of
self-preservation.
Play Falstaff like that, and
make Prince Hal a similarly
hard, tough and humorous char-
acter (Terence Longdon made
him a pallid young prig), and
how simply the whole piece falls
together so that one senses in
the young prince the growing
menace to the fiery, challenging
Hotspur. One never got that
impression from the Stratford
performance —Longdon’s Prince
Hal could never have killed Hot-
spur, any more than Quayle’s
Falstaff could have marched the
length of England or run a sword
into Hotspur’s corpse.
Still, those are complaints, and
the Stratford company was good
enough to stand them and more.
On the whole, its swift and
beautiful productions were a
delight and an education, and the
one highlight of a comparatively
barren year—for the rest the
professional stage kept to the
level of “Dial ‘M’ for Murder,”
“Seagulls over Sorrento,”
“South Pacific” and the like.
The repertory or “little”
theatres managed about eight
noteworthy productions be-
tween them. The Independent
Theatre gave a very moving per-
formance of “Death of a Sales-
man” and a very lively and
graceful version of Shaw’s “The
Apple Cart” ; the Metropolitan
came up with a good production
of “Antigone”; and the Mer-
cury distinguished itself in “Ring
Around the Moon” without cap-
turing the full enchantment of
the piece, and with a light
comedy, “The Happy Time.”
“Death of a Salesman” was
probably the strongest offering
of the year, although “The
Happy Time” was undoubtedly
the best production and had the
benefit of almost faultless acting
right down the cast.
Of the actresses one could not
forget in a hurry either Aileen
Britten in “Death of a Salesman”
or Melpo Zaracosta in “An-
tigone” ; of the actors Frank
Waters distinguished himself as
the salesman, and was collared
by the Stratford company;
Allan Trevor gave a very fine
performance as the king in “The
Apple Cart”; and Owen Wein-
gott, without eclipsing either of
those two in any individual per-
formance, maintained the stand-
ard which sets him as one of the
best and most consistent actors
around Sydney.
P.D.
“Cinderella on Ice”
Everything is on knife-edges
up at Melbourne Princess, where
good old-fashioned panto, is
being served on ice with a skill
and at a speed that must be
“Seems to think she's on a desert island.
rather bewildering for the
children. No sooner have they
got stuck into the story of Cin-
derella and her wicked sisters
than Jirina Nekolova, a Czech
ballerina, surges brilliantly into
the proceedings, or Wim de Jong,
the celebrated Dutch stilt-skater,
rushes on and performs his as-
tounding antics. When Baron
Mumm, Minnie Mumm and
Maxie Mumm and Buttons have
painstakingly succeeded in re-
capturing the audience’s atten-
tion they are promptly routed
by Lloyd Nairn, reputedly the
world’s greatest juggler on ice
and probably one of its greatest
off it. Larry Halroy, inter-
national ice-cyclist, Reg Park,
Australia’s world professional
champion ice-skater, Warren
Kermond and the Lorraine
sisters, gymnasts, and Jandy,
the French musical clown eccen-
tric, provide further interrup-
tions to the story.
Their skill is so amazing and
the swift grace and beauty ol
Jirina Nekolova are so dazzling
that they somewhat dim the
lustre of the fairy godmother s
achievement when she produces
a carriage and horses out of a
pumpkin. However, the Demon
King of Charlton Heslop is suf-
ficiently alarming, the humor of
“Dinks” Patterson’s Buttons is
satisfying, and Peggy Mortimer
makes a pathetic and appealing
Cinderella. The “Sunbeams”
ballet of Australia’s most
talented children, though they
haven’t much skill, are much
nearer to the youngsters and get
an even bigger ovation than the
stars of the ice world.
❖ ❖ ❖
New Adventures of Ginger
Meggs
Ginger Meggs was luckier than
Tithonus. Tithonus was given the
gift of immortality by a grateful
Venus, but the goddess forgot to
give him the gift of perpetual
youth, so the poor chap had to
sit around watching his hair and
his teeth fall out and his shanks
grow thin for all eternity. Under
the care of the late Jimmie
Bancks Ginger kept his youth
for 40 years; now it looks as
though he is likely to be given
immortality, or, at least, a new
lease of youthful life by Mr. Ray
Lawler, the enterprising play-
wright and actor of Melbourne
National Theatre.
Last Christmas Mr. Lawler
put Ginger, Minnie, Cuthbert,
Tiger Kelly, Mr. and Mrs.
Meggs, Tony the monkey and
Pete the dog on to the National’s
boards in the form of a panto.,
faithfully following the decor-
ative comic art of their creator
in the matter of costumes and
facial expressions and keeping to
tradition in the manner of the
story. The result was thoroughly
engaging. This year he brings
in Miss Swigglethorpe, the
schoolmistress, Mr. Swindle, the
scoundrelly circus - proprietor,
Bang-bang, the clown, Anastasia
and other deities of the Bancks
pantheon in a new adventure.
In the new adventure Ginger
comes off badly at the school
break-up, and, to escape the
exultation of the notorious Tiger
and the scorn of Minnie, runs
away and joins a circus, making
a spectacular return as the Wild
Boy from Borneo when the
circus sets up a one-night stand
in his suburb. Mr. Swindle is
exposed for what he is, Tiger
Kelly is routed, and Minnie’s
wavering affections return to
Ginger. Mr. Lawler contributes
the dialogue, lyrics and accom-
panying music, which isn’t half-
bad, and also takes the part of
Ginger. Reg Gillam is a suitably
brutal Tiger, Kathie Reed a
sentimental Minnie and June
Brown and Phillip Ellerton satis-
factory caricatures of parents.
Judging by the vivacity of his
invention Mr. Lawler should
easily be able to produce a new
episode annually ad infinitum,
so Ginger et cie seems assured
of at least as long a life as
Mother, Dad and Dave of On
Our Selection.
Talkies
“The Cruel Sea”
The picture is better than the
book!
Monsarrat, in compressing the
whole of the Battle of the
Atlantic into the lives of two
ships, rides from wave to wave
of horror: no let-down, even in
the shore-life of his sailors, where
one’s wife is an adultress, an-
other’s child screams at sight of
him, the hero’s lass is killed and
the prospective bride of the chief
E.R.A. is bombed to death.
But in Eric Ambler’s screen-
play there is a breathing-space.
Most of the remembered actions
are there, but now and again
the film relaxes and coasts along,
altering course into those re-
lieving channels of incompar-
able lower-deck humor.
Commander Jack Hawkins
takes the laurels from former
holder John Mills as the fault-
less presenter of a naval captain,
Donald Sinden as Lockhart, the
first-lieutenant, while his face
lacks the strained grimness of an
officer responsible, under the
worst conditions, for the fighting
efficiency of the ship, contrives
to achieve just that mixture of
love, restrained by manliness and
tempered with respect, which a
first-lieutenant could be expected
to feel for a captain like Ericson.
All the subsidiary characters
are true-to-life and to the book
—the cox’n and chief E.R.A.
especially. The initial first-lieu-
tenant, as in the book, is over-
drawn. No officer of his un-
naturally snarly temperament
would have been seelcted for the
confined world of a corvette, nor
would he have lasted half a dog-
watch if he had been.
It has become usual to expect
first-class production in British
films about their Navy. And in
this picture the old subtleties of
direction are again evident: the
tense faces on the bridge, with,
in the background, the sinister
drone of a German aircraft
circling their convoy out of
range and radioing its position
to the waiting U-boats; the
fierce, silent stares directed at a
rating who drops a spanner
loudly on the steel deck while
the corvette is stopped for re-
pairs in U-boat waters; Ericson
asking Lockhart to give up his
chances of a command of an-
other ship by joining him as first-
lieutenant in his new ship, and
Lockhart, a grin twitching his
face, answering: “Tell me about
our new ship, sir.”
It is difficult to pick on out-
standing scenes in a film wholly
outstanding. But the piece where
Ericson has to make his decision
to depth-charge a suspected sub-
marine skulking directly below a
group of torpedoed survivors in
the oil-scummed water the
doubt, the horror in his face,
struggling with the consciousness
of his duty —make as fine a piece
of acting, with the subsequent
scenes of the depth-charging, as
present reviewer has been
privileged to see.
* *X* *
“South Pacific Playground”
This local production by Ken
Hall for Cinesound, with Ron
Horner at the camera, is a mag-
nificent photographic tour of
Sydney’s northern beaches from
Manly to Palm Beach. The pro-
ducer hasn’t missed a trick. Into
the 20 minutes’ running-time he
has crowded every possible diver-
sion for the pleasure-seeker. In
particular the shots of surfing
and surf-skiing are first-rate. If
there is a fault it is that the color
(by Gevacolor) is occasionally
too heavy. (Sydney State.)
* * ❖
“Walking My Baby Back
Home”
Hollywood has a long-estab-
lished formula for churning out
inexpensively - produced hoof-
and-groans which will make a
special appeal to adults of the
mental age of eight. This is to
disinter some pop.-song which
enjoyed a brief life about quarter
of a century ago and build
around it the most fatuous “plot”
possible. All it needs then is a
top-line dancer willing to carry
the awful burden.
The formula has been faith-
fully carried out in this opus.
The “plot,” it is true, is more
enfeebled than most of its kind,
but it is saved from plumbing
the deepest depths by the nimble
feet and likeable ways of Donald
O’Connor. Janet Leigh is co-
opted to demonstrate one of Ein-
stein’s best-known theories, and
also to sinuate the curves in no
disagreeable manner. (Sydney
Lyceum.)
❖ ❖
“Sadko”
“Sadko,” a Moscow art-studio
film t o Rimsky - Korsakov’s
music at the Grosvenor, Mel-
bourne, appears to be founded
on a Russian-fairy folktale, and
there is nothing wrong with
that. Sadko is the hero-father
of his people and wants to
make everybody in Nijni Nov-
gorod happy, so he goes off to
find the bird of happiness, leav-
ing his lady love behind him.
The search takes him to
Egypt, India, Asia Minor and to
the bottom of the ocean, where
he meets Mr. and Mrs. Nep-
tune. He finally pinches the
bird from an Asiatic potentate
and takes it home, where it
evaporates into thin air, the
moral being that happiness lies
within the nation, not outside it.
The producers have poured
into it everything they could lay
their hands on—gigantic palaces,
pyramids and sphinxes, ele-
phants, ships, ocean-depths full
of fishes, and hordes of war-
riors and slave-girls—and the
trouble they went to must have
been enormous. Unfortunately,
viewed artistically, all it adds up
to is animated Walt Disney.
The photography and color har-
monies are atrocious, the
palaces and pyramids look com-
pletely pseudo, and the actors
are as stiff as buckram.
Allbursts
The management of
the Kashmir Coffee Lounge,
Macleay-street, King’s Cross,
has adopted the pleasant prac-
tice of exhibiting pictures (which
are, of course, for sale) without
charging the artists’ commis-
sion. First one-man exhibition
was by Piers Bourke. Art, and
buyers, and gallery and other
expenses being what they are,
the idea has obvious advantages,
for the young artist particularly,
and so charming and civilised a
practice deserves encouragement.
It was with some regret, then,
that this writer discovered that
Piers Bourke’s paintings were
not his cup of coffee. In justice
to the artist it should be added
that the Kashmir, at time of
inspection, was crowded and
one needs a lot of assurance to
examine carefully each picture
while being examined by the
cash customers. And, anyway,
taste in art and coffee is largely
a matter of personal opinion.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
CHAPTER VI ‘
IN the great ship it was easy
for Baumer and Sherwood to
avoid each other. Even at
meals they could sit four long
tables apart. Sherwood had had
no cause to speak to his flying-
commander after they had landed
from the evasive-tactics exercise.
Though he had heard Swan
speak, sharply in a voice which
brooked no questioning, to a
couple of his Fury pilots who
had commented, in his presence,
on the unfairness of Baumer’s
orders.
The next day, with, for a
wonder, no missions on the
routine, Sherwood was sitting on
a wooden bollard-cover on the
quarterdeck, idly watching
Hawk’s wake tossing up from
under her counter and running
astern, to be absorbed in the
smoothly enamelled plain of
blue reaching far back to the
clean-cut line of the horizon.
There Swan found him.
The little fighter-pilot stopped
beside his friend.
“Shift your great carcass, will
you? Weighted as I am with
the latest, most authenticated
buzz” . ..
Sherwood made room for him,
smiling.
“What is it this time? Hong
Kong? Malta? Or Brisbane?”
He looked over his shoulder
at Swan behind him. “About
the only thing authentic about
your buzzes is the certainty that
if you plump for Hong Kong,
we go to Malta.”
“Oh, what wit!” Swan mar-
velled. “Still, if you want to
go in ignorance of this floating
fortress’s movements . . - Even
when no less a dignitary than
Commander Elias Baumer has
instructed this humble minion
to prepare for receiving addi-
tional Furies” . . .
Sherwood turned round to
face him.
“So? Well, come on, you
grinning gnome. There’s only
one place we can pick up addi-
tional aircraft. Brisbane! ”
“So?” mimicked Swan. “Not
when the furious Furies are
brought right to your front-door,
so to speak.”
“How the hell how?”
“Ever heard of a carrier
called Adelaide? With the
letters H.M.A.S. before said
name? You have? Wonderful!
Then it is my privilege to be
the first to inform you that her
Majesty’s Australian carrier
Adelaide will drop pick in Kure
in about 24 hours from now.
Closely followed by H.M.S.
Hawk.”
“Kure! ” Sherwood rubbed
his hooked nose, smiling under
his hand. “I seem to remember
they’ve got a”
“Hospital,” Swannie finished
for him. “And I seem to re
member a certain delicate opera-
tion performed on one of the
sisters of said skulking place for
sailors. A wholly undistin-
guished operation which resultec
in one Firefly squadron-com-
mander —a man in whom one
could be excused for expecting
the traditional ideals of his
Service—being saddled with the
extremely apt appellation of
‘Lover-boy.’ ”
“You bollard-headed little
runt,” said Sherwood pleasantly.
“The only time I’ve seen you
greener was when that destroyer
delivered you, unfortunately
otherwise intact, from a watery
grave.”
“True,” grinned the bollard-
headed little runt. “I do freely
admit, in my manhood, that the
mere sight of her is enough to
step up my rev.-counter to full
boost.”
He grinned impishly up into
Sherwood’s face. “Also in Kure,
round about now, will be
destroyer Dart —commanded by
my very excellent friend and
rescuer, Commander Brewster.
I wonder if he’ll remember me?”
Could the Escort-Leader have
projected his intelligence
omnisciently some miles further
south, he would have known that
Commander Brewster certainly
remembered the half-drowned
pilot he had hauled from a rough
sea in a roughly-handled Fury
fighter.
It had happened some two
months earlier. On that date —
to be precise, it was at 4.15 in
the afternoon —her Majesty’s
Australian destroyer Dart was
doing everything but dart. A
haze of brown smoke whipped
flat at her funnel-lip, she burst
each wave into square yards of
lace, screwed headlong into the
yawning trough beyond, and
staggered up the next liquid
hill like a grey-beard marine
monster, trailing cataracts from
her fo’c’sle and with her head
of a bridge swathed in driving
curtains of white spray.
She dipped again, in the same
endless motion. A lather of
spray swept the bridge. It flew
over the first-lieutenant crouched
under the fore windbreak, and
beat fair into the weathered face
of Commander S. H. Brewster
standing upright behind his
binnacle.
Commander Brewster had been
a boxer in his day; it had left
its mark in the whipcord wiri-
ness of his spare frame, and,
more visibly, on the broad dimen-
sions of his nose. The captain
was looking, physically, ahead
over the troughs of tumbling
brine. Mentally, you’re sneer-
ing at me, thought his first-
lieutenant bitterly. That’s right
—the perfect example to junior
officers. Standing up taking it
full in your ugly dial. Well,
you can take it so far as I’m
concerned—and I hope it freezes
your flat nose off!
“Number One!”
The first-lieutenant jerked:
had the old battle-axe read his
thoughts? He would not be sur-
prised. He could judge a bear-
ing by eve to within five degrees.
“Sir?”
“Before you get a permanent
bend in your spine down there,
you might be good enough to
check the ship’s position. If
you slide on your belly across
the grating you won’t get wet.”
Blast you! You know damned
well I checked her 10 minutes
ago. The first-lieutenant handled
himself across the bridge to the
canvas-covered chart-table. But,
of course, you must have your
precious command’s position put
on the map every 10 minutes.
Every 20 did for the flotilla-
captain. But not you. The first-
lieutenant swore as his wet oil-
skin sleeve smeared the virgin
whiteness of the chart, where a
pencil-point with a circle round
it pinpointed the ship’s posi-
tion 10 minutes back on the
ridged expanse of the Yellow
Sea.
If I ever worry about the
rings on my arm like you, he
thought, hearing the captain’s
warning to the helmsman to
watch his steering. I’ll jump on
the guard-rail and take one step
outboard!
He noted a well-defined cape
on the charted Korean coast
abreast their position and drew
his fathom or so of rangy length
back from the chart-table to
identify the cape on the looming
mass to starb’d. Brewster stepped
down from behind the binnacle
to let him take his bearings.
Watching the long figure
crouched over the gyro bearing-
sight, Brewster waited to resume
his position. The first-lieutenant
took his time. It was not easy
to get the tiny “V” of his sight
steady on the jutting cape, with
the ship plunging and almost
continuous gusts of spray obscur-
ing his vision. Brewster jerked
impatiently.
“Number One!”
Hell, what now? The first-
lieutenant came up and looked
at him. Brewster hesitated, then
shut his mouth abruptly and
walked to the chart-table, rest-
ing his arms on its wet top and
staring out over the fo’c’sle.
There was torture in his face.
Damn my bitterness! Why
must I always pick at them?
God knows I don’t want to. You
think I don’t know what you
all think of me? His fingers
clenched. And I can’t tell you
what’s nagging me—you don’t
talk about those things. None
of you has ever been court-
martialled. For piling your
brand-new ship high on a coast
—like this one. In a gale, too.
Standing before a court glitter-
ing with gold-braid in the quiet
judicial atmosphere of a closed
room. There was no screeching
wind, no slap and smother of
malignant seas and visibility-
reducing mist to mar the judg-
ment of that gold-braid! Damn
them! Hadn’t they ever been
in a gale? That was the trouble ;
they had—and they had brought
their ships through it. Not
ripped her guts out on a sub-
surface snag of rock.
Finished his bearings, the first-
lieutenant watched his captain
waiting to get into the chart.
He saw Brewster take another
faceful of salt, unflinching.
That’s the boy—men of oak and
all that bull.
But Brewster had hardly felt
the whip of the spray. He was
coming back —as he had every
night for the past fortnight—
into the court-martial room, to
hear their judgment. He had
sworn to lumself he would look
the president of the court full in
the eye, and not stare in cringing
anticipation of that judgment at
the sword (his sword) laid out on
the table before the president.
Yet his eyes had dropped to it;
a flood of feeling had surged
through him as he saw the hilt
towards him. Not guilty!
“Excuse me, sir.”
Then the president’s judgment.
Having heard the evidence ....
it is the opinion of the court,
considering the uncharted set of
a strong current in that area,
and an uncharted ledge, that the
stranding of H.M.A.S. Searcher
was not the fault of her com-
manding officer. He is therefore
exonerated. However, it must
be stressed that, in waters where
it is suspected that available
charts do not cover fully pre-
vailing conditions, commanding
officers must exercise the greates
caution in. ..
“Excuse me, sir!”
The captain swung his head.
“I’d like to get these bearings
on the chart, sir.”
“Oh, sorry. Number One.”
Brewster pulled back. The
first-lieutenant stared a momen
at the look on his face, then
buried his own head under the
canvas dodger. He drew three
swift black lines from shore to
sea. What in blazes was the ole
nuisance thinking about to give
him that look? Number One
circled the intersection of the
lines, and pencilled a time near
by, thus fixing the ship. Some-
thing wrong —that “Sorry
Number One” was almost
normal.
So much so that he ventured
a remark as he pulled out from
under the streaming canvas.
“Never seen a chart so bare,
sir. They’ve marked the coast,
and that’s about all.”
“What?”
Number One raised his voice
above the howl of the wind.
“Just mentioned the lack of
soundings on the chart, sir.”
“Yes, I heard you,” Brewster
answered. He was about to add,
“There’s no need to bellow your
fool head off! ” but bit the words
off. God, how long before he
could relax again? Four weeks
now since his trial, and the dis-
belief with which he had read
that signal the next day.
Commander S. H. Brewster
appointed to Dart, in command.
Effective forthwith. Acknow-
ledgment to be made by signal.
That recognition of his com-
petence should have settled his
turmoil. It had vindicated him
in the eyes of ihe Fleet. But
you don’t pile up a couple of
million pounds’ worth of
destroyer every day; you don’t
feel her graceful beauty crunch-
ing and grinding to a tortured
mess under your feet without be-
ing shaken out of the casual
efficiency which hitherto had
been your main happy charac-
teristic. What he wanted—with
a certainty that was almost an
ache-—was some action, some
manoeuvre, a chance which, like
a crashed pilot going up again,
would restore his confidence in
his seamanship. And break
down the atmosphere which,
since his coming to this ship, had
made a cosy little hell of the
wardroom.
The captain had never thought
about his problem quite like
this before. Perhaps he had
been too full of its actuality
within him to worry about its
effect on others of his com-
mand. On his last bridge his
presence had not been the signal
for an instant tightening-up of
the bridge personnel, from the
first-lieutenant and commis-
sioned-gunner to the signalmen
and bosun’s-mate. There he had
been accepted, with respect,
as having the most complete
right to be there, by virtue of
his experience and authority.
There the bosun’s-mate became
busy with a bit of brightwork,
as became his captain’s pres-
ence, and the officer of the
watch had cheerfully com-
mented on or cursed the
weather, or asked his advice on
a current expected ahead. Here,
tho bosun’s-mate found he had
SYNOPSIS
In a savage action against
Korean infantry Lieutenant-
Commander Sherwood, C.O. of
carrier Hawk’s Firefly strike-
squadron, is shot down. Res-
cued by Hap in his helicopter,
Sherwood is returned to the
carrier. Here, Commander
Baumer, his detestation of the
younger flier increased by the
loss of three valuable aircraft,
orders Sherwood and his flying
team airborne for more practice.
Incensed by the unfairness of
the order, Sherwood explodes.
Both officers take their grievance
before the captain, who upholds,
in no uncertain manner,
Baumer’s order. But, worried
by the obvious feeling between
two of his most important men,
the captain sends for his com-
mander, lifelong friend and
shipmate. After discussion of
the matter, captain and com-
mander decide to wait and see,
both hoping that Baumer and
Sherwood will either resolve
their differences or else have
enough sense to keep them sub-
dued.


a message to run; the tension-
ing of the officer of the watch
was physically noticeable. He
felt they breathed a collective
sigh of relief so soon as he had
stamped below again.
He looked at the first-lieuten-
ant now—gazing steadily ahead,
now and again looking at his
watch, stubbornly determined
he would not be caught again
with his bearings. And then
Brewster felt, suddenly, as he
never had before, the remote-
ness, the lonely privilege, of
command.
He turned to Number One.
He had no idea what he would
say—just knew that he wanted
to say something, to break
down that disciplined, respect-
ful and completely self-willed
aloofness of his second-in-
command.
Brewster’s mouth was open
when a voice, urgent but not
scared, sprang like a dis-
embodied being from a voice-
pipe.
“Radar-office —bridge! ”
Instantly the first-lieutenant
answered. “Bridge?”
“Contact bearing green two-
oh. Angle of sight three-five.
Range one - double - oh. Air-
craft ! ”
His hip wedged against the
binnacle, Brewster raked the
leaden sky with his binoculars.
Range five miles. He could not
expect to sight him against that
background, but the reaction
was instinctive. He lowered his
glasses.
“Identification, Number
One?”
The first-lieutenant had his
ear to the voice-pipe. The previ-
ous thoughts of both men were
forgotten, submerged in the in-
stinctive appreciation of the
necessity to work the ship
efficiently.
“Finding out, sir,” he
answered. He waited a moment,
listened to the message reaching
him through the voice-pipe
which ran like a nerve to the
radar-office, and straightened
up.
“Friendly, sir.”
Brewster relaxed. “It would
be. Just what we wanted.
Single aircraft, no friends, nice
practice run for the guns.”
He grinned.
The first-lieutenant hid, he
hoped, his surprise. He real-
ised, with a slight shock, that
this was the first time he had
seen his captain smile. This
was becoming a watch to re-
member! When you see a
physically close shipmate widen
his mouth for the first time in
the month you’ve known him,
the reaction is apt to call for
something. With the normally
gregarious first - lieutenant it
was a continuance of Brewster’s
line of thought in a sudden
rush of conversation.
“I dunno, sir. Intelligence re-
ported a shore-battery just
south of here. We could get a
round or two off after all.”
He stepped up beside Brew-
ster on to the grating, pulling
self-consciously at the skin of
his throat. “Shall I get the
guns”
A voice from the port look-
out’s position shut him up
abruptly.
“Bridge! Aircraft bearing
green three-oh. On fire!”
Brewster acted with a cold,
instant certainty. One reason
why he had been given another
command. He shoved the first-
lieutenant clear and bent to the
voice-pipe. His voice was curt,
incisive,
“Starb’d 20! Full ahead to-
gether ! ”
Before the echoing clang of
the answering engine-room bells
had pealed away her slim bow
was coming round, aimed at a
smoke-streaming object over the
coast to starb’d, which was
heading in a shallow, helpless
dive towards the sea. Its con-
dition was something the
omniscient radar had not been
able to tell them.
Number One had the burn-
ing aircraft in his glasses.
“Fury, sir. Must be from
Hawk. If he can’t pull out, the
sea’s got him. Just to the
right”
Brewster interrupted tersely,
He was not interested in who
or why; his mind was filled
with distances, speeds, steering,
And as he rapped his orders a
lifting elation filled him. There
was no question that he would
get that aircraft. The threat of
breakers, reefs and shore-
batteries was something he
was aware of, and his seaman-
ship would overcome. And
there was more to the captain
in this evolution than a matter
of seamanship.
“Wheelhouse! Steer for that
aircraft!”
Jt might have occurred to him
that that was surely one of the
strangest orders to be passed
from a bridge. But the Fury
was ] ow now, a bat-winged
shape at the point of a stretch-
ing plume of black smoke,
trailing astern of it in a grace-
f u | arc against the lighter grey
of the sky,
The ship was shuddering with
speed, flinging the spray back
over her nose in wind-driven
sheets. She rolled as she sliced,
and a wall of water lifted over
her lee gunwale, hung poised a
moment, then fell in a pouring
avalanche of green over the
fo’c’sle. But she was built for
these seas, designed through an
age G f battling against them.
she shook the water from scup-
p ers j n casca des of white lace,
an( j bucketed on,
They saw the aircraft strike,
half a mile ahead. At almost
“The Fury was low now, a bat-winged shape at the point of a stretching plume of black smoke,
trailing astern of it in a graceful arc against the lighter grey sky”
the same time four gouts of
black smoke erupted from the
sea near the Fury, stark against
the wilderness of green and
white sea.
“Come on, Number One —get
those bloody guns closed-up!”
The first-lieutenant jumped—
so justified was the asperity in
the captain’s voice that he felt
no resentment of it. The first-
lieutenant is responsible to his
captain for the gunnery effi-
ciency of the ship. A shore-
battery had landed its first salvo,
and was certainly loading its
next, and he had done nothing
about it. He reached the alarm-
buzzer at the fore-end of the
bridge, found it with his thumb,
and pressed hard.
Smoothly the destroyer swung
into action; a routine in which
her crew had been so persistently
drilled that it was automatic,
Number One was not worried
about spray now. He poked his
streaming face above the wind-
break, and in a voice trained to
clarity in ocean gales roared at
A-gun—quicker than passing it
through the gunnery-control
director above his head.
“A-gun! Provide grapnels on
the fo’c’sle, And the four-inch
grass. Stand-by to hook that
aircraft. Get a scrambling-net
ready for the pilot.”
He snatched a look at the
wallowing Fury, now clearly
visible right ahead. And noted
the line of spray exploding in
an unbroken wall a few yards be-
hind the aircraft. Reef. He
turned to the bosun’s-mate.
“Get the navigator’s yeoman
closed-up on the echo-sounder.
Start operating immediately.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The youngster tumbled
urgently down the ladder.
In the few minutes this pro-
cedure had taken all guns had
closed-up, and were now sniffing
across the sea towards the hills,
following the master-eye in the
director above the bridge. In
instant echo to the next quartet
of flashes ashore came the
director-officer’s shout:
“Director, target!”
Brewster nodded to Number
One, who turned to the director
phone-number.
With the Fury 200yds. ahead,
Brewster forgot the guns. He
was the brains of the ship now —
no matter where he turned her,
or at what speed, the guns could
train and look after their own
problem- So their opening roar
made him jump from his crouh
over the bearing-sight. Inen e
forgot them again, the experience
of years judging, guiding, slowing
her down as she sloughed and
sliced up to where a helme e
figure waved from his half-awa
cockpit.
Brewster was about to give
his final positioning order when
a voice sprang from the voice-
pipe leading to the echo-sounding
machine in the chart-house be-
low.
“Depth three and a half
fathoms, sir!”
Twenty-one feet—she drew
eighteen! Brewster bent to the
wheelhouse voice-pipe. A shell
exploded in a vicious slam of
splinters on the funnel. One
sliver struck the siren. It
gurgled, cleared its throat, and
gave tongue unchecked in a
nerve-jarring screech of sound,
“Full astern together. Brew-
ster bellowed. He waited tor
the order to be repeated, then
“ Tell the engmeroom to shut on:
steam to both sirens.
Number One had a moment to
record a memory of the captain.
It was a scene he would not
soon forget. The crash of waves
battering her sides, rearing up
and over in liquid avalanches;
the mast sweeping in crazy arcs
across the cloud-piled sky; the
siren screeching, high pitched
accompaniment to the timed,
stunning crash of all six guns,
and Brewster, erect, clutching his
binnacle, oblivious to everything
but the widening gap between his
bow and the spreadeagled figure
on the aircraft, now up to his
shoulders in water. '
The siren wheezed, spluttered
and fell silent. The relief was
almost physical. It was broken
by the first-lieutenant’s shout.
“Hit, sir! Looks like their
ammunition! ”
If Brewster heard, he gave no
sign. He was at the voice-pipe,
the extension of his eye and
brain, reaching to her rudder and
50,000 boiler-room horses.
“Stop both. Slow ahead to-
gether. Steady as you go!”
The first-lieutenant was intent
on his job. This was the text-
book example, if he had stopped
to think, of .a fighting ship’s two
main purposes —gunnery and
seamanship. And so well-drilled
was she that both were being
exercised simultaneously—and,
so far as Number One was con-
cerned, efficiently. He stared at
the billowing mushroom of
smoke marking the target-
ammunition, and plenty of it,
judged by that junior Bikini.
There would be little left of the
battery. He let the guns loose
another broadside and ordered:
“Cease firing.”
With the consciousness of a
job well done Number One
turned to the other drama—and
stared aghast. Almost directly
ahead of them, so close he could
have heaved a spud, reared the
wall of exploding spray where the
rollers ended their run on the
reef. Fascinated, he watched a
wave recoil, to bare the black,
glistening, waiting teeth. He
looked at Brewster. The captain
was listening, not to the echo-
sounder reports, but to his anti-
submarine asdic set. The cheese-
shaped sonic beam, shafting out,
had told him that the reef
dropped sheer under the sea for
several hundred feet, a subter-
ranean cliff. And that between
the three and a half fathom ridge
near the aircraft and the reef,
water stretched deep. There was
one other thing, which Number
One was quick to grasp. Also
between the aircraft and the reef
was a bare ship’s-length.
The first-lieutenant was an ex-
perienced second-in-command.
He would not have lasted a dog-
watch in a destroyer if he had
not been. And, being a
destroyerman, he had seen sea-
manship at its best. Or thought
he had. That he was learning;
he was now watching a master.
Slowly, with infinite care,
Brewster swung her. Round,
judging in advance the slap of
wind and sea. It was as much
the efficiency of his predecessor
on test as it was his own —the
least delay, the slightest mistake
in the execution of Brewster’s
orders, in wheelhouse or engine-
room, and she was up.
The first-lieutenant wrenched
his stare from the reef and
jumped to the fore-end of the
bridge. The aircraft was almost
under the bow. He looked at
Brewster, at the strain on his
face, went to ask, then, deciding,
ran down the ladder and forrard
on to the streaming fo’c’sle.
Number One leant his length
over the guard-rail and looked
into an impish, salt-caked face,
its eyes red-rimmed. The quick
grins on each face said all there
was to say. Then the grapnel
was over, hooking its prongs
under the Fury’s propeller-boss,
already well under water. A-
gun’s crew took hold of the
grapnel-rope, and heaved.
“Hold it at that! Scrambling-
net. Smack it about!”
The big rope-net rolled down,
its edge striking the pilot on the
shoulder. Eager hands bundled
him over the guard-rail.
“Aircraft?” Number One
queried.
“Write it off.”
“Right. Unhook grapnel!”
“Can’t sir—it’s caught.”
“Cast the bloody thing loose,
then! Come on, man —move!”
Number One turned to the
captain of the gun.
“Petty-Officer Haining, take
this officer to the wardroom.
Hold on —you all right, old boy?
Good. Wardroom, Haining. Tell
the surgeon and steward. Ex-
cuse me now, won’t you? We’ve
got to get out of this yet.”
Number One was past A-gun
when he turned, and called back
to the dripping pilot. “What’s
the monicker, old boy? We’ll
get a signal off soon as we can.”
The pilot grinned, an impu-
dent opening of his salted dial.
“Good idea. Old Jelly-belly
will be worrying.”
“I beg your pardon?”
The grin widened. “Nothing.
((Continued on next page )


Swan’s the name. Lieutenant-
Commander. Commanding-
Officer, Fury Squadron. As you
may have guessed—carrier
Hawk.”
Number One found an answer-
ing grin creasing his own face,
even in this unhealthy country,
at the infectious laugh on the
other’s gnome-like face.
“Leave it to me. See you
later.”
Dart was already swinging
when Number One made the
bridge. He reported briefly.
“Pilot aboard, sir. Unhurt.”
Brewster nodded, his eye on
his bow. Under hard-over rudder
and opposite-working screws she
was swinging, slowly, with no
forward movement. She could
afford none. Now and again a
wave rearing against the flares
of her bow would halt her. Then
the grip of her screws dragged
her round again, patient, in-
domitable, spinning with a quiet,
giant strength.,
A final roll and she was round,
stem to the reef, the sub-surface
ridge clear on her port bow. The
captain listened for the echo-
sounder.
“Forty fathoms, sir. Fifty
fathoms. Fifty-five”
He straightened, and wiped his
eyes, a tired, instinctive move-
ment, almost like a child’s.
Twenty years’ experience had
been concentrated on those few
minutes, when an order to the
wheel given five seconds too soon
or too late would have meant
disaster. Number One felt a
queer, almost passionate sym-
pathy. Only a seaman could
understand that effort.
He stepped forward. The
captain heard him, and turned.
A faint smile relieved the white
rime of salt on his face.
“All right. Number One—you
can fall out action-stations. Then
go below and have a look at that
johnny.”
“Yes, sir. I —er” Number
One floundered. A first-
lieutenant does not usually com-
pliment his captain on his ability.
“I’d like to say, sir—that was
damned fine seamanship.”
Brewster’s smile widened.
“Thanks, Number One. It was
a bit close,”
He listened to the other’s sea-
boots clumping down the ladder.
A great relaxation filled Brewster.
He breathed deeply/ exhaling
slowly through pursed lips. More
important than proving his com-
petence to his ship’s company,
he had proved it to himself.
He turned back to the binnacle,
and pulled out a packet of damp
cigarettes. He slapped his
pockets.
“Match, sir?”
The bosun’s-mate was beside
him, on the raised, sacrosanct
grating, a box in his hand.
Brewster looked at him, then
lowered bis eyes to hide the
ridiculous light in their tiredness.
He took the match, lit up and
drew deeply.
Ten minutes later, after a
final look round the still-rough,
but manageable, sea, Brewster
handed the ship to the officer of
the watch and went below to
sight his new passenger.
So that, two months later, it
was natural, as he stepped out
onto Dart’s upper-deck in Kure
in response to the officer of the
day’s message, and saw Hawk’s
veranda’d bulk shaping up for
the harbor, that Commander
Brewster should remember, with
feeling, one of the 40-odd pilots
she carried.
That feeling he put into prac-
tical form when, after waiting
for the carrier to settle down
after berthing, he buzzed for the
signalman and dictated a mes-
sage.
From: Commanding-officer,
Dart. To: Lieut.-Commander
Swan. R.P.C. [request pleasure
company] dinner tonight.
The reply came back in the
same traditional brevity of langu-
age.
V.M.T. [very many thanks].
Would like to bring feathered
friend.
So Lieutenant-Commander
Sherwood, Fireflier, met Com-
mander Brewster, destroyer-
driver.
CHAPTER VII
CHERWOOD liked the
destroyer captain at once.
Brewster’s smile was friendly, his
manner casually assured. The
Fireflier sensed, within a few
minutes of his entering it, the
cosy atmosphere of the ward-
room. Though the wardroom-
mess was essentially the first-
lieutenant’s province—in theory,
the captain was not even a mem-
ber of the mess, and at sea took
all his meals in his sea-cabin
handy to the compass-platform
—naturally the captain made
free of the larger room in har-
bor. The fact that the ward-
room was, in the captain’s pres-
ence, filled with an easy friend-
liness spoke volumes to an
officer of Sherwood’s experience.
He was not to know that it had
been somewhat different a short
two months previous. But, as
Brewster was thinking as he
handed the grinning Swan a
frosted glass of beer, that was
two months ago.
Listening to Swan recalling to
Sherwood that incident, Brews-
ter, quietly smiling, was think-
ing, as he had often thought over
the past two months, that the
gnome-faced Fury pilot would
be a very surprised man indeed
if he knew the facts —that more
than Swan’s life had been sal-
vaged in those few hectic
minutes off the reef.
Sherwood, listening to Swan,
was quietly watching Brewster.
He had noted the litheness with
which the captain had risen from
his seat when they stepped in
over the coaming ; and now the
flattened nose told the same
story. Brewster caught him
looking. He smiled and edged
over to Sherwood, behind
Swan.
“Middleweight, sir?” Sher-
wood grinned.
Brewster nodded, pleased at
the other’s discernment. He
had, once, prided himself on his
ring- work.
“Yes, but it wasn’t yesterday.
Done any yourself?”
“Like you, sir—yesterday.
Now young Swannie’s about my
meat.”
“Hold on,” Brewster inter-
rupted. He looked at the slop-
ing, muscled shoulders of the
Fireflier, rounded from crouch-
ing. “Sherwood? Spare me
days! Not the Sherwood who
towled up our Australian
flotilla champ, in Alexandria
during the war? Sherwood —the
Med. Fleet light-heavy cham-
pion?”
Swan heard and swivelled
round.
“None other, sir. Not that
he’s modest —just likes you to
think he is.”
“Well, well,” mused Brewster.
“I saw that stoush. Had a boat
in the Scrap-iron Flotilla, Sher-
wood, eh? This calls for a
drink! ”
“That’s one thing the coot’s
not modest about!” grinned
Swan, punching at Sherwood’s
belly. He was absurdly pleased
that his friend was known to
these Australians. It made him
squint up at Brewster, his impish
face split athwartships.
“Y’ know, sir—l think this
little party might develop into
something.”
Brewster drained his glass and
smiled across at his first-lieu-
tenant.
“Y ’know. Swan,” he grinned,
“I think it might.”
It did.
At midnight a happy party
waited at the gangway to see the
two fliers into the motor-boat,
“Sherwood,” Brewster said,
voice a little thick, “I’d like to
see how those birds of yours do
their tricks. Never been aboard
a carrier flying-off.”
“Now’s the time, sir,” Sher-
wood answered. “We’re pick-
ing up a few Furies here —re-
placement is pretty heavy in
those particular fowls.” He
ducked Swan’s swing. “And
Swannie’s brood’ll be testing
’em.”
“Good show. Give me the
tip and I’ll see if I can work it.”
“On one condition,” Sherwood
smiled.
“Yep?”
“As you may have gathered,
Kure’s no Piccadilly. And
we’re in for a few weeks. How
about an operational trip with
you?”
Brewster held out his hand.
“Sold,” he said.
“Gimme the boats, eh?” Swan
grinned, looking up at the other
two. “There’s just one little
thing you’ve forgotten, Richard,
me lad.”
“What’s that. Happy?”
“Jelly-belly! ”
Sherwood laughed aloud,
Four hours in Dart’s wardroom
had given him a protective lin-
ing which not even the memory
of Jelly-belly’s peculiar hatred
could pierce.
“We’ll jump the crash-barrier
when we come to it,” he grinned,
They handled themselves care-
fully down into the rocking boat.
“Nice bloke, Brewster,” Sher-
wood spoke loudly above the
splutter of the engine.
“Nice bloke,” corroborated
Swan. “Most of my friends
are,”
Sherwood grinned and
stretched his long legs out, pres-
sing the toes against the lockers
opposite. I haven’t felt so well
for months, he mused. And it’s
not the beer—wholly. Hawk’s
not exactly dry. The atmosphere
“My husband is very interested in the Workings of
mechanical gadgets
of that boat’s wardroom. A
man can relax in there. In our
own wardroom . . . Baumer, of
course ; and his bloody attitude.
He pulled at his hook of a nose.
The jelly-belly’s got me worried.
Sherwood sat abruptly upright.
He had to stop that! A carrier-
pilot, worrying, is a carrier-
pilot, unworrying—unworrying
in a canvas cocoon, sliding down
a flag-draped plank . . .
“What’s biting the master-
mind now?” Sherwood saw
Swan looking at him queerly.
He looked away, slightly em-
barrassed, from his friend’s
scrutiny. His eyes lighted on a
large block of buildings on the
hill above the bay, a myriad of
lights outlining its bulk in the
blackness. The Commonwealth
Forces General Hospital.
Sherwood grinned, a lopsided
twist to his mouth. He turned
and looked at Swan,
“Nothing on my mind, you
bald-headed bollard, that that
hospital can’t cure.”
Swan swung his head to look
back over the boat’s white-tossed
wake, reaching back into the
darkness towards the block of
lights. He whistled.
“I must tell Brewster,” he
said.
“Tell him what, you idiot?”
“Tell him what a prince of
hosts he is. He must be—to
keep your mind above your belly
for four hours!”
“Yes,” Sherwood murmured
almost to himself, “he must be.”
The boat ran in alongside
Hawk’s port gangway. Both
officers, for all their load, ran
with practised ease up the long
wooden ladder. The quarter-
master saluted them aboard and
spoke to Sherwood.
“Phone message for you, sir.
From shore.”
“Yes? What?”
“A Miss Chalmers, sir. She
rang about four times . . .”
The quartermaster was halted
by Swan’s deep guffaw.
“Four times in four hours!
Oh, brother! ”
Sherwood cuffed him and
turned to the quartermaster. He,
too, was grinning. The q.m. was
a staid hand, with two badges on
his left arm ; and the quarter-
deck of one of H.M. ships is a
different place at one bell of the
middle-watch to the august acre-
age it is during the working day.
“Well, Q.M. The message?”
“If I had fifty quid I’d
wager . , .” began Swan, grin-
ning evilly behind his big friend’s
shoulder.
“Oh, pipe-down, Swannie.
Come on, then, what’s the mes-
sage?”
The quartermaster rummaged
among a pile of signal-pads on
his little desk. He selected one
and slanted it to catch the ligfit.
“Miss Chalmers would like
Lieutenant - Commander Sher-
wood to contact her as soon as
possible at the hospital,” he said.
“That’s all, sir,”
“That’s plenty,” murmured
Swan.
“Thanks, Q.M.,” said Sher-
wood. “Come on, infant. Bed.”
Watching them go, swaying
slightly, the q.m. debated his
next move, A man had to be
careful with these chaps, even
like they were now. But he had
shipped with Sherwood before,
in the Mediterranean. And
Swan —well, Swan was liked
even by seamen. Yeah, they
were okay. He called out.
“Excuse me, sir.”
Sherwood turned.
“Yes?”
“There’s a ship’s dance on
tomorrow night, sir. All hands
in.”
“Is there, by George!” Swan
answered. He slapped his belly
expansively. “Beautiful, Dicky.
Bring Natalie. And Natalie
brings a little playmate for
Swannie. Perfect! ”
Sherwood looked at his friend
reflectively. “Come on, Romeo,”
he said curtly and led the way
below.
Sister Natalie Chalmers (one-
time of Sydney, and, with her
sun-browned figure, an orna-
merit of Bondi Beach; now,
with her white-clad figure, an
ornament of Ward 4 of the Kure
General Hospital) set the test-
tube in its rack in the dispensary
and stared out through the side-
windows across the blue-and-
white stippled bay. Out to
where the water ended, slapping,
against the distant grey side of
H.M. carrier Hawk below.
Sister Chalmers’s tongue was
slowly massaging the underside
of her scarlet upper-lip as she
studied Hawk. It was a gesture
on which a watcher could have
placed several interpretations—
the sister could have been
merely pensive ; or thinking, per-
haps, of the appendectomy in
Bed 14. Still gazing down at the
carrier, she slowly clasped her
long brown hands across her
breasts. A little shudder ran
through her. Sister Chalmers
was thinking of Lieutenant-
Commander Dick Sherwood.
The door opened.
The sister who entered was
shorter than her colleague,
plumply rounded. Her face was
eager.
“Natalie,” she said urgently,
as the other turned, dropping
her hands quickly.
“Yes?” Natalie’s voice was
drawling, cool.
“Phone, Natalie. From the
carrier.”
Natalie stroked her hair, the
long fingers running with appre-
ciative suppleness over the
blonde waves.
“Relax, Beryl,” she said, smil-
ing at the other’s expectant face.
“I’ve waited long enough.”
“Oh, for God’s sake!” Beryl
answered with exasperation.
“You know you’ve been dying
for this call.”
She called out as Natalie
passed through the door.
“Don’t forget the dance to-
night.”
Natalie lifted her hand in a
casual wave. Beryl watched her
walk down the passage, noting
enviously the tight, dress-
moulded outline.
“I don’t know what sort of a
man kept you waiting,” she
murmured to herself. “And,
darling —how you’ve been wait-
ing!”
Beryl walked along the pas-
sage behind the lithe figure. She
wanted to be within call when
Natalie left the phone-booth.
The tall blonde lifted the
receiver.
“Sister Chalmers speaking,”
she said with professional cool-
ness. There was no answer.
“Hello. Hello!”
The voice now was eager,
worried, decidedly unprofes-
sional. Then she heard a laugh.
“That’s what I wanted to,
hear.” Sherwood’s voice was
teasing.
“Oh, Dick,” Natalie replied,
softly. She relaxed her body
against the side of the booth,
a little smile on her full mouth.
“I’d been trying to get you
last night. You might have
How are you, darling?”
“Longing to see you.”
“Ah!”
“What’s that?”
“Nothing, sweetheart. I’m
free —ah —I could manage to-
night.”
“That’s my girl,” Sherwood
chuckled. “Concise, to the
point, no muckin’ aboot. Listen,
Natalie. We could go for a
drive along the bay.”
“Yes?”
“But there’s a ship’s dance
aboard tonight. We’re all more
or less expected to show on the
target. Afterwards, of
course”
“I’d like that. You’re well,
Dick?”
“Never better. Oh, by the
way. I have a friend —feathered
variety —who’d like you to bring
something in tow. Can do?”
Natalie looked out the glass-
panelled door. Beryl was star-
ing at her, making no pretence
of her interest. Natalie laughed
softly.
“Yes, Dickie, darling, I think
I can bring something in tow.
(i Continued on page 50)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors :' THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A . G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all States.
The SCENTED GARDEN
by Olirer Filter
(’LL never forget that visit
to Fraser’s place.
It was my first time through
that part of the country and
I’d been pushing the utility pretty
fast all day. It engulfed the
track ahead at an effortless sixty
and spewed out behind a plume
of dust that leaped and swirled
and hung in the hot air for a
mile or two to the rear.
I was hurrying for two reasons.
There was no reason to look at
the scenery. It was poor cattle
country—flat and treeless to the
horizon, poorly-grassed and
scabbed with great, spreading
eaten-out patches of bare soil
around the too few bores. Fifty
miles and more of that between
homesteads, and not much
“home life” on them. Most of
the stations up that way are
owned by people or companies
who much prefer the comfort of
the southern cities and leave the
management of their properties
to anyone who will stick out the
climate and conditions —and, of
course, drag a profit out of the
place.
The easiest way of making a
profit—for a while, anyway—is
to take as much as you can from
the land and put as little as pos-
sible back into it.
There’s not much hope for
country that’s treated like that,
and my next article was already
forming itself as I drove ...
This country is being bled to
death. Its value is being drained
away in profits and dividends to
people who have never seen it;
don’t know a thing about it;
and don’t give a damn for it.
What it needs is settlers —men
with wives and children who own
the land they live on; men who
will make it their life and put
something back into it instead of
taking everything out of it.
And that was my second
reason for hurrying. I was
anxious to reach Fraser’s place,
Linga Downs, before dark. I’d
never met Fraser, but his repu-
tation reached as far as the
coast. He was what the country
needed—a settler, and pretty
considerable man at that. He’d
gone prospecting during the de-
pression and found gold. Not
a lot; just enough to buy a run-
down cattle property cheap.
Then, with years of sweat and
courage and living like a nigger,
he’d built it into something—“a
real showplace” was the popular
description. Then he’d built a
decent homestead, found himself
a wife and brought up a couple
of youngsters to inherit what he’d
built.
It was a good story, and just
the one I needed to support my
argument. But I wanted it from
Fraser himself, with photographs
of him and his family, their
homestead and the way they
lived. I’d come on this trip only
to do a series of descriptive
magazine articles but, with the
usual journalistic effrontery, I
had decided that I knew what
was wrong with the country and
what it needed to fix it.
I had also decided, without
meeting him, that Fraser would
agree with me. I was going to
like Fraser and, because Of that,
I felt he was going to like me.
'VTOW I was driving almost
straight into the sun. A
fence and gate materialised out
of the glare. The gate was solid
and well-built, with Linga
Downs neatly painted on it to-
gether with a notice, “Please Shut
This Gate.” I did so and drove
on for another fifteen miles until
the homestead showed itself as a
shining white roof in a cluster
of green trees, the only green
on an otherwise brown and grey
landscape.
I passed some stockyards
where a few aborigines were
lazily cleaning-up after a
day’s work and stopped at the
gate in the fence which sur-
rounded the homestead itself. As
I climbed stiffly out of the utility
a couple of dogs barked noisily
at the sky and then sniffed at
the tyres and me. I pushed them
aside, went through the gate and
walked along a path lined with
flowering and heavily-scented
shrubs.
There was more than an acre
of garden around the homestead,
shutting out the heat and dust
of the surrounding country. Pink
and white oleanders lined the
path; bougainvillea flared in a
purple mass over the shade-
house ; frangipani-trees grew
against the veranda and the
lawn was littered with gold
and white of their fallen flowers
with, here and there, a splash
of crimson where other flowers
had dropped from the large
poinciana-tree which overhung
the house. The scent of frangi-
pani and other flowers was
almost overpowering.
As I walked across the lawn
towards the veranda of the
homestead a woman came
through one of the doors that
opened onto it. “Mrs. Fraser?”
I asked, and when she said “Yes,”
I introduced myself and the
purpose of my visit.
She was an attractive
woman between thirty and forty,
although she smiled and spoke
with a kind of emotional radiance
more usual in someone half
that age. Like the homestead
and garden around her, she was
cool and well-kept. Her floral-
cotton dress was cut very low
and supported by thin straps over
her shoulders; her shoulders and
arms were full and firm without
being too much of either. Nice
for Fraser, I thought; and per-
fect for what I wanted.
“My husband will be up soon
for dinner,” she said. “He’ll be
able to tell you what you want
to know. Would you like to
wash while you’re waiting?”
“And change,” I said, sud-
denly aware of my sweat and
dust-stained clothes, the faint
perfume of her cosmetics and the
heavy scent of frangipani. “I
slept on the track beside the ute
last night.”
She took me to a room that
opened onto the veranda. It
was a bedroom with a smooth
white bed under a draped mos-
quito-net and a clean towel and
soap on the washsland.
“This is the visitor’s room,”
she said. “You’ll stay the night,
of course. The showers are just
around the corner of the house.”
“I’ll get some clean clothes
from the ute,” I said. “Then
I’ll make the most of that
shower.”
“We have dinner in about an
hour,” she said as she left.
I crossed the lawn again to go
back to the utility for my bag.
As I walked along the path be-
tween the oleanders I saw a man
striding briskly towards me.
“Mr. Fraser?” I asked.
His “Yes” was an abrupt
question, almost as though he
had been stopped by a stranger
in a city street.
1 told him who I was and why
I was there. As I spoke he
listened with obvious impatience,
looking at me intently bur with-
out interest at one moment, and
then in any other direction the
next.
TTE was a magnificent man,
nearly six and a half feet;
blond, with hard grey eyes over
high-boned, slab-sided cheeks.
There was sweat-streaked dust
over his short, fair stubble. He
wore tight-fitting khaki pants
and a sweat-stained khaki shirt
that gaped open across the hairs
on his chest; the blond hairs on
the corded muscles of his fore-
arms were like gold floss in the
sun.
There was an overpowering
smell of antiseptic about him, as
though he had washed in strong
carbolic-soap.
I finished explaining myself
and waited for him to answer.
He went on looking straight at,
or through, me for three or four
seconds while I breathed car-
bolic. Then he said, “Yes. Well
I’ll see you later,” and almost
pushed past me to go on along
the path.
I went on to the utility, feeling
acutely uncomfortable and won-
dering whether I’d irritated him
or whether he was intensely pre-
occupied with something else.
I got my bag, scrubbed down
under a hot shower, changed
and stepped out onto, the ver-
anda. It was nearly dusk and
as I came out a young fellow
stood up from a chair and intro-
duced himself,
‘Tm Hawkins,” he said, “Jim,
that is, Mrs. Fraser told me
you were here.”
He poured me a glass of gin-
and-lime from a frosty jug on
the table and we both sat down.
“You’re a journalist?” he
asked.
“I suppose so,” I said.
“It must be an interesting job.”
“Like any other.”
“It’s what I’d like to do,” he
said, and I realised that he was
pretty young—not more than
twenty or twenty-one, and good-
looking in a slim, dark way, “I
did a bit of writing before I
came out here, but I never had
any luck with it.”
“What brought you out here?”
I asked him.
“I’m a tutor,” he said. “For
the two youngsters, that is.
They’re in bed now —you’ll see
them in the morning. Mary—
Mrs. Fraser, that is—wanted the
kids to have a good education,
but Mr. Fraser didn’t want to
send them away to school. So
they advertised for a tutor —and
here I am. That was over a year
ago.”
“And how do you like the life
out here?” I asked him.
“It’s all right for a while, I
suppose,” There was a
hint of evasion and a nervous
quality about his speech and his
manner as he kept fingering his
glass and dividing his gaze be-
tween it and me.
“You get lonely, though,” he
went on. “Lately I’ve been
thinking I’d like to get back to
the city again. You know —
mix with a crowd, go to shows
and all that sort of thing.”
“Why don’t you?” I asked.
He twisted his glass, flicked a
glance at me and then back to
the glass. “I don’t know really,”
he said. “I suppose it’s just a
matter of making up my mind.”
A gong rang twice and softly
inside. Hawkins stood up.
“That’s dinner,” he said.
A/f ARY FRASER was already
in the large, cool living-
room filled with dark, heavy
furniture, and a mountainous old
gin in a white cotton frock
moved silently on bare feet about
the table.
Fraser came in by another
door just as the three of us were
seated. He had changed into
clean but similar clothes and had
washed and shaved, but he still
brought with him the unmistak-
able odor of carbolic. He
nodded to me but sat down
without speaking and began eat-
ing immediately.
The silence was thick and
awkward. Mary Fraser and
Hawkins glanced at each other
but not at me. Then Fraser
looked up, his jaws working as
he chewed; he looked briefly at
his wife, then at Hawkins and
then at me. I thought he was
going to speak but he didn’t.
He reached for a slice of bread
and buttered it.
I caught a strained glance from
Hawkins and I think we were
both about to say anything to
break the tension when Mary
Fraser addressed the table in
general.
“Could I have the butter,
please?”
The butter was in front of
Fraser, but he gave no sign of
hearing. Hawkins reached
across and passed it down the
table. No one spoke. Outside
somewhere a small lighting plant
throbbed steadily.
The gin moved forward from
the shadows and removed
Fraser's plate. While she was
taking another from the side-
board, Fraser raised his head
and looked at the three of us
again. His face, half-shaded
because he sat directly under the
light, was blank, hard and alert;
it was impossible to know what
he was thinking; the only im-
pression was of cold, threaten-
ing strength.
Mary Fraser and Hawkins
were both looking at what they
were cutting on their plates. As
Fraser looked at me I imagined
a hint of contempt in his eyes. I
tried to break the intolerable
silence,
“This article I’m doing, Mr.
Fraser —I’m trying to set down
some of the problems of this
country, and some possible solu-
tions.”
For a suspended moment I
thought he was going to ignore
the question. Then he said,
“Such as?”
“Well, it seems to me that the
country needs settlers—men to
live on the land they own. Too
much of it seems to be owned by
people who never see it.”
“Stubbs over at Olga Plains
is a settler. Been there half a
lifetime and ruined the place.
Lives like a nigger and makes
his family do the same.”
“You mean it’s really a propo-
sition for the big man, then —
for companies?”
“Binda Creek’s a company
show. They haven’t spent a
bean on it in years. Not worth
a damn now.”
“Then”-
“And Hill Bend’s another com-
pany. Best-run place in the
north.”
I tried again. “Well, what do
you think about a railway? A
lot of people I’ve spoken to say
a railway would make a tre-
mendous difference to this coun-
try.”
“Wherever they’ve got rail-
ways everyone is crying because
road-transport is being run out
of business. We’ve got good
o Continued on next page )
SEA-WASP
I know the animals with heads and eyes
—Even pinpointed in insects—and hold some hope
They will know me, see me: but the sea’s
Creatures, not always animate in a shape
Even of familiar ferocity, hunt
In the shapeless guise of spirits, ghosts.
The conventional ghosts: no back, no front;
Head, if any, under a sheet-shape; hosts
Of a spirit-world. Isn’t the sea eerie? Who...
What. . .but that dreadful sea-wasp loitering in the tide,
Giant tropical jellyfish with the whips few
Suspect in his glass-clear skirts, can ride
More ghost-like down the current, shock
A swimmer to death, yet ineffectual look?
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


INSURANCE —for your protection-
LTD.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
T l u d\y/o Branchs 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager
A
L
T
theatre
mj/lmjkmmmjSS
WORLDS GREATEST PLAYS
The greatest stars of Australian radio bring you the world’s finest
comedy or drama every Sunday night at eight in a full hour of
memorable entertainment.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2m 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
Now on Safe AUSTRALIAN
BOY
FORTNIGHTLY
The MAGAZINE for BOYS
At All Newsagendes 9d
How to Relax
Most of us in nearly all
our activities are "driving
with, the brake on." That
brake is unconscious tension.
It burns up our energy, im-
pairs our skills, even dulls
our zest for life. But how
can you learn to relax?
In January Reader’s Digest
a noted authority shows how
to spot hidden tensions and
gives simple proven techniques
to relax your muscles and your
mind . . . help you enjoy a less
harried, happier life.
Also in January issue
“The story of the Kremlin,”
“Revolt of the overdressed
male” and 29 other stimulat-
ing articles condensed from
world’s leading magazines
and current books. Reader’s
Digest—on sale now —1/6 at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
road transport out here, so every-
one wants a railway.”
“Well, have you any sugges-
tions about what the country
needs —more bores, or sheep in-
stead of cattle, smaller holdings,
or anything?”
Fraser chewed on a mouthful
before he swallowed. “Never
think about it; too busy running
this place. I’m a cattleman, not
a politician.”
I couldn’t sense any sarcasm
in his voice, even though he was
so obviously stonewalling every-
thing I said. Nor did he seem
to be deriving any amusement
from the process; if anything,
he gave the impression that his
mind was occupied with some-
thing else and had little or no
interest in what I was saying,
I ate in self-conscious silence
for a while until the small noises
of cutlery on plates became un-
bearable again. For the sake of
something to say, I asked Mary
Fraser, “How do you get on for
mail out here?”
“Once a week,” she said. “It
comes down from”
I missed the rest because
Fraser stood up. He crushed
his serviette in his hand and
dropped it on his plate. I made
as though to rise, but he waved
me down. “Excuse me—l’ve
work to do.”
He left and I noticed that,
like a lot of big men, he walked
almost without a sound.
AFTER he had gone Mary
Fraser talked deliberately
and lightly about inconsequential
things until we finished eating.
But nothing could ease the
strained atmosphere of the table,
and I was glad to get away on
the excuse of unpacking and
making a few notes.
I stretched out on my bed for
a while, smoked a couple of
cigarettes and wished to heaven
I’d never come near the place.
Then I got up and went out on
the veranda again. There was
a light on and its pale yellow
illumination brought up the con-
trast between the green grass and
the white and crimson of fallen
frangipani and poinciana.
Beetles whirred and clicked
around the naked light-bulb. I
lighted another cigarette and
wondered whether it was worth
trying to talk to Fraser again ;
then I heard Mary Fraser call
me.
Her voice came from the
shade-house at the end of another
path through the shrubs, and,
as I looked towards it, I saw a
cigarette glow as someone drew
on it. I stepped off the veranda
and crossed the lawn towards the
path. The smell of tropical
flowers was particularly heavy
in the night air.
The path to the shade-house
was narrow, with oleanders and
other bushes pressing in on it.
It was only twenty or thirty
yards long and, as I was about
half-way along it, the smell of
carbolic mingled sickeningly with
the scent of flowers.
Mary Fraser and Hawkins
were sitting in deck-chairs in the
shade-house. “I’m sorry I
didn’t tell you,” she said. “We
always sit out here at night.”
Hawkins added, his voice a
little strained and unnatural,
“We turn on the veranda light
and then sit out here in the dark.
It fools the insects—they stay
with the light.”
“I was just having a last smoke
before turning in,” I said. “I’ve
been driving all day since be-
fore dawn.”
Mary Fraser was apologetic.
“Of course. You must be tired.
Would you like a drink or any-
thing first?”
“No thanks,” I said. “Just a
good night’s sleep.”
I left them and went to bed,
but without sleeping for a long
time. I lay there wondering
how they’d got into this mess,
how long it had been going on,
and how it would finish. It must
be near the climax, I decided.
Young Hawkins didn’t matter
much ; he would go soon —back
to the city—with a mixture of
guilt and relief. But the Frasers?
Oddly, because I had seen no-
thing to prove it to me, I con-
cluded that Fraser’s attitude was
defensive ; that Mary Fraser was
the stronger. Otherwise the
situation would have exploded
long ago. There was, perhaps,
some hope for them in that.
WITH the sunlight streaming
into my room I woke,
shaved, showered and dressed
and went out to meet Hawkins
and two grave-eyed boys who
were sucking pencils over their
pads. Mary Fraser came out
as I was talking to them.
“We didn’t wake you,” she
said. “I thought you’d rather
sleep. I’ll have Minnie get you
some breakfast.”
“Never eat it,” I told her.
“But I would like a cup of tea,
if you could.”
“Of course,”
When she went I tried to talk
to Hawkins, but the nervous em-
barrassment which he had barely
concealed the night before was
now so apparent that I felt sorry
for him. “I’ll go pack my bag,”
I said. “I’ll have to shove off
soon.”
I came back with my bag and
drank the tea. “Where would
Mr. Fraser be now?” I asked.
“He’ll be down at the yards,”
Mary Fraser said. “They’ve
been speying cows for a week
now. They start at daybreak.”
“I’ll see him on the way out
then,” I said. “And now I
must get moving.”
I shook hands with Hawkins.
“I wish I were coming with you,”
he said, and then looked as
though he wished he hadn’t said
it.
I turned to Mary Fraser. “I’ll
see you off,” she said.
Walking with her to the gate,
I had the momentary impression
that she wanted to confide in me,
but it was probably only a re-
flection of my own feelings. At
the gate she said, “I’m afraid we
haven’t helped you very much
with your articles.”
“I wouldn’t say that,” I said.
“Your place is certainly an ex-
ample of what can be done out
here.”
She persisted. “No, I didn’t
mean—l meant I’m sorry about
last night. My husband’s terribly
busy just now and . . . You see,
we don’t see many people out
here, and most of them are news-
paper correspondents and they all
ask the same questions.”
For a moment, I think, she
thought she was succeeding, and
then she knew that I knew and a
flush of color rose from her
throat to her face.
“That’s all right, Mrs. Fraser,”
I said; I felt sorry for her and
wanted to sound that way, but
my voice was awkward and
abrupt. She was instantly com-
posed and impersonal.
“You’ll find Bill at the yards,”
she said. It was the only time I
heard her use her husband’s
Christian-name.
THRIVING about a mile to the
yards, I stopped and walked
over to the rails. Several abo-
rigines, men and boys were
shouting and whooping at a mob
of cows in one of the yards and
driving them one by one down
into a narrow crush.
As a cow came to the other
end of the crush its head was
caught in a bail and rope slid
under its belly to keep it standing.
Then a gate was opened on one
side of the animal and Fraser
stepped forward with a sharp,
short-bladed knife.
He made a quick, firm cut just
behind the ribs and below the
backbone, then plunged his left
arm through the incision up to
the elbow and guided in a slim,
silver cutting-instrument. Then
he withdrew his hand and threw
the ovaries on the ground.
An abo. passed him a heavy
packing-needle threaded with
twine and he made two rough
stitches to pull the wound to-
gether, then slapped it with a
tar-brush. Then he stepped
back and, while the cow was re-
leased, plunged his arms to the
elbows in a kerosene-tin of
carbolic antiseptic. Then he
turned back to wait for the next
cow.
It seemed to me that each cow
took less than two minutes. The
boys shouted and laughed as
they drove the cows into the
crush; the animals, sensing
blood, tried to crowd away
from it; and each cow bellowed
as though stricken as the knife
cut it. One abo. splashed water
on the ground around Fraser to
keep down the dust, but it still
drifted down from the milling
cattle in the yard and mingled
with the veal-smell of flesh and
reek of carbolic.
The only orderly thing in the
confusion seemed to be Fraser—
fast, automatic and impassive, A
step forward ; cut; plunge; snip;
hand out, without looking, for
needle and twine; stitch, stitch
and tie ; tar. Next one.
I climbed the rails to walk
over to him and then wished I
hadn’t. No matter how I trod
I couldn’t avoid walking on
the little pink-veined ovaries
scattered on the ground. Fraser
bent to immerse his arms in the
antiseptic and then faced me.
“I’m on my way,” I said,
“Just stopped to say goodbye.”
He shook some of the liquid
off his hand and held it out. “Oh,
well. Goodbye then. Hope you
got what you wanted.”
I shook hands with him and
was about to make some further
perfunctory remark when he
turned away, disinfected his hand
again and then turned to deal
with the next cow.
I stood there for a moment,
but he didn’t look towards me
again, so I stepped gingerly back
to the rails, over them and into
the utility. I noticed that one of
my hands was wet and slippery
on the wheel with carbolic, so
I dried it on my pants. Then
I pressed the starter, let in the
clutch and drove off.
pOR a long time the smell
of antiseptic persisted in
the cabin of the utility, but
gradually the dry inland air and
the smell of hot oil from the
engine dispersed it.
I pushed my foot down and
the needle rose and settled at
sixty. The road ahead gathered
and rushed under the car. The
landscape was spreading, vast
and empty again. There were no
cattle in sight; only an odd roo
standing up in the grass to watch,
or an occasional turkey stalking
indignantly off the track. Here
and there carrion-crows flapped
reluctantly from a carcass as I
drove past and settled back onto
it before I was out of sight.
LANDSCAPE
We should walk more often into night’s cold country
Swathed by the white mist’s soft covering of mystery.
To learn endurance from animal hills, crouched patiently
Unfleshed by thin steel knives, deceptive, silvery.
More often we should watch dark, waiting water—
Brush through the reeds that rise by a still river
To pools where no fish even bubbles a black mirror
Where a froth of spawn alone prophesies terror.
Crossing wet grasses to a rise and to stones
Lichened or polished till a paddock shows stars and moons
For wandering feet; strange planetary substance that beckons
Ever too far for walking—these new uncharted heavens.
Better to be outside the house and behind
And above that dog who whines and shuffles with the
seeking wind;
Easier from the hill to guess his mind
Than cowering by barriers uncertain which crevice to defend.
It is only the light of day, the warmth of living that can
nurture fear,
Or the unnaturally prolonged daylight of lamp and fire.
Exploring night’s body is no more than stroking the fur
Of a slow-breathing entity unmoved either by hunger or by
desire.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
OSUIJJVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Toowoomba's Antipodean Poet
George Essex Evans
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
ONE of the first of several
names upon which Too-
woomba (Q.) lays its
civic finger when it wishes
to reassure itself of its literary
associations is that of George
Essex Evans. Other names are
A. G. Stephens, “Steele Rudd”
and (for art) J. J. Hilder.
With the exception of Essex
Evans, who was English-born
but domiciled himself on the old
Toowoomba Toll Bar in a
locality still known as Evans,
these men were born in the
town, though you might call
“Steele Rudd” a “near-miss,”
since he was a native of the
near-by township of Drayton—•
now incorporated in the Greater
Toowoomba area.
George Essex Evans has been
posthumously treated the best of
the four. A broken column in
his memory today stands at
Webb Park, overlooking the
Range, which was the subject of
much of his verse, and bearing
as an inscription the words he
dedicated to Toowoomba:
Dark purple chased with sudden
gloom and glory.
Like waves in wild unrest,
Low-wooded billows and steep
summits hoary,
Ridge, slope and mountain crest
Cease at her feet with faces turned
to meet her.
Enthroned, apart, serene,
Above her vassal hills whose voices
greet her
The Mountain Queen.
“Steele Rudd” is honored by
a cairn of blue-metal durability
erected on the site of his long-
demolished birthplace, black-
smith Thomas Davis’s Drayton
cottage. A. G. Stephens is
due to be commemorated by a
marble plaque set in the wall of
the City Hall. J. J. Hilder yet
remains to be similarly honored.
Perhaps one reason for Evans’s
columnar aggrandisement is that,
during his lifetime, he was the
more locally known of the group.
His residence at Toowoomba co-
incided with much of that period
in his literary career when he
was achieving general recogni-
tion. He was, into the bargain,
publicly active and, apparently,
versatile in his industry.
He was living at Toowoomba
in 1899, and that year, and for
a subsequent couple of years, he
was supplying milk to the family
of Mr. James John McGee, who
was then Supervisor of Works
and the Government architect
for the town and district.
J. J. McGee later became the
first Registrar of the Industrial
Court of Queensland, and he
and Evans were firm friends. To
him the poet gave a bound
volume containing the three
numbers of “The Antipodean,”
the “illustrated annual” which
Evans and John Tighe Ryan pro-
duced in the years 1892, 1893
and 1897, and published with
Chatto and Windus, London.
The volume has now been pre-
sented to the Toowoomba
Historical Society by John Mc-
Gee’s daughter, Mrs. W.
L’Estrange.
Evans and McGee worked in
neighboring offices in the town’s
Court House building, which
seems to indicate that, at the
time, Evans was combining his
post of Clerk of Petty Sessions
with the activities of a milk-run
proprietor. Mrs. L’Estrange has
also presented to the Historical
Society an envelope on which
is an entry in Evans’s handwrit-
ing, with initials beneath, in-
forming John McGee that the
price of milk had increased to
3d. a quart!
Evans had previously been
Registrar of Births, Deaths and
Marriages at Gympie, when
A. G. Stephens was editing the
“Gympie Miner.” Stephens
went to Gympie in 1888 after
serving his apprenticeship to the
printing trade at the Toowoomba
offices of W. H. Groom (later
a Federal member of Parliament
for the town) and at Beard’s
printery, George-street, Sydney,
Stephens and Evans knew
each other sufficiently well for
Stephens to buy from the poet
for the sum of five guineas—the
price is quoted by Vance Palmer
—a collie dog, with which he was
wont, along with his horse, to
spend weekends in the country,
Vance Palmer, in the fore-
word to A. G. Stephens—His
Life and Work, writes that
Stephens thought Evans “a
good fellow, but not a very
original poet.” Of the poet’s
Commonwealth Ode, the manu-
script of which is in the posses-
sion of the University of Queens-
land, Stephens later said: “Nice
familiar little flowers of phrase,
each growing in its neat little
plot; and the whole trim and
tame, and strictly suburban.”
When Evans wrote
the Ode, he was living at
Toowoomba. The fact
that he was awarded the
Commonwealth prize for
it, and the fact that he had
already (while at Gympie)
published in London the
long poem The Repent-
ance of Magdalene Des-
par (1891), and in Mel-
bourne Lorraine (1898),
and was in 1896 (while
living at Toowoomba) to
have published in Sydney
The Secret Key made him
a literary lion in the town
and in the State.
His civic occupation of
Clerk of Petty Sessions
and, later, Town Registrar
—the comparative promin-
ence of which, in those
days, was enhanced by his
driving to and from town
in a sulky (always a mark
of distinction) very
likely added to his fame.
And if, as Mrs. L’Estrange
suspects, he was the foun-
der of the town’s highly-
successful Austral Festival
(modelled on the Welsh
Eisteddfod), which later be-
came the Queensland Eisteddfod,
then his local importance must
indeed have been almost
phenomenal, for a poet.
At some stage, or interval,
in his Toowoomba life he wrote
a column for the “Darling
Downs Gazette,” now incor-
porated in the “Toowoomba
Chronicle,” It is said that in
the midst of preparing copy for
the press he would frequently
leave off and soar above the
commonplaces of the reporters’
room by then and there com-
posing a poem.
He was continually satirising
the steamroller which the Town
Council, to the discomfort of its
budget, one day boldly pur-
chased. He adeptly caricatured
the roller in print as “Old Over-
draft.”
A photograph of Evans in
“The Antipodean” (1892) shows
him as a sturdy man with a
strong neck and head, closely-
cut hair, a wide, smooth fore-
head, regular youthful features,
direct eyes, a straight, handsome
nose, and a round chin with a
groove in it. A bushy moustache,
twirled and pointed at the ends,
adorns his upper lip.
It is not difficult actually to
assign to Evans the classification
Antipodean, as well as to under-
stand his choice, or approval, of
that term as title for the annual
he and Ryan edited. He was
fundamentally old-worldish in
manner and he was certainly
English-derivative in his verse ;
and the title, “The Antipodean,”
though signifying a geographical
oppositeness to the Old World,
was a direct statement of how
closely identified the new land
and its writers were with the
region they automatically in-
ferred they stood opposite in
place.
The Antipodeans wanted to
show the Mother Country how
famously they were getting along
away from Home. The Countess
of Jersey, in the introduction
which appeared in the first issue
of the journal, wrote: “The
aim of ‘The Antipodean’ is to
form a literary link between the
Mother Country and those of
her children who live beyond
the seas. Various statements
have been put forth respecting
the culture or, as some assert,
want of culture existing in Aus-
tralasia. As far as literature is
concerned, the Antipodeans are
able and willing to say to their
northern kinsfolk, ‘Read and
judge for yourselves.’ ”
Today, “The Antipodean’s”
pages are stamped with historical
TOOWOOMBA’S POET
interest and the literary link
the editors were so anxious to
form between the Antipodes and
the Mother Country has a curious
and Valiant patina Ot age upon
. ,
j°Umal roade a reasonably
successful Start, for the 1892
. .
uumbei ran to a second edition,
Why the hiatus occurred between
the y issue of 1893 and that of
1897 tbe editors did not ex-
n but, encouraged by the
response t 0 the 1892 number,
th stated in an introduction to
the y next; « The Editors, in plac-
ing tbe second number of ‘The
Antipodean’ before the public,
baye tQ express their gratitude
f or tbe kindly reception accorded
, . in Britain
tothe Great Britain
Reasserted their aim
iney also reaSBen ? a , in , eir dl “ 1 ’
terms less colonial than the
Countess of Jersey s: It has been
our endeavor to set before our
read collection of stories,
, . . and verse of a charac-
“ke.tches and verse ot a cnarac
ter . lStlca X A ustra f asian f tor ? e ’
“ “wiSf % £*£ £
$ co t n ial wr £ ers ’ B J d
• , „
Th „ pyrpntirm ” was
Ro ™ rt Lo ‘ uis Stev P ns who
contributed to the second
number besides a signed photo .
graph taken in Sydney that year
f 18 % 3> the year b y efor y he died)>
a “ To Mv old Familiars,”
a re fl e ctive, sentimental piece re-
calling his Scottish haunts and
his native dinburgh-—■
What sound shalt come'but the oid
cr y of wind
In our im ' m-r
■ . midyear Stevenson
began Jus finest, and unfinished,
work, “Weir of Hermiston,” and
it is interesting to note that the
quoted lines and others strongly
echo his dedication (to his wife)
with which he prefixed the un-
finished work;
1 saw rain falling and the rainbow
drawn
On Lammermuir. Hearkening I
heard again
In my precipitous city beaten bells
Winnow the keen sea wind. ,..
He may have been still under
the influence of his dedication
mood when he wrote the poem
which he sent to “The Anti-
podean.”
The phrase “racy of the soil,”
used in the introduction to the
1893 “Antipodean,” seems to
assume a special allusiveness
when, on turning over the pages,
one encounters an article by Nat
Gould (“Verax”) on “Racing in
Australia,” in which the descrip-
tions have a quite modern and
evergreen air about them.
Each of the three numbers of
“The Antipodean” contained
more than 100 pages—No.
I, 112 pages ; No. 2, 116 ;
and No. 3, 104. The last
number was a Christmas
issue and gave pride of
place to “The Black
Tracker,” by Rolf Boldre-
wood. Also featured were
Henry Lawson’s “A
Daughter of Maoriland,”
stories by Edward Dyson
(“The Fossickers”), Essex
Evans (“A Gulf Idyll”),
Roderic Quinn (“On the
Dividing Range”), and
“Steele Rudd” (“A Day at
Shingle Hut”), and poems
by J. Brunton Stephens,
J. B. O’Hara, Evans and
“Banjo” Paterson (“The
Ballad of the Calliope”).
To No. 1 Sir Samuel
Griffith contributed an
article on the colored-labor
question, W. O. Hodgkin-
son a “Chinese” story.
Sir Henry Parkes an
imaginary conversation
between W. C. Wentworth
and John Dunmore Lang,
David Blair an amusing
Victorian Recollection (the
fall of the “O’Tipperary
Ministry”) and J. T. Ryan an
article about Press interview-
ing—
of the dreary interviews with men
who have returned from abroad as
full and as interesting: as cargo
ships; of the men who are thirsting:
for notoriety and yet who “do not
generally grant interviews’’; or of
the strange attempts made by all
sorts and conditions of nonentities
to get waited upon by “a represen-
tative of the Press.”
And among the authors repre-
sented in No. 2, besides Steven-
son and Gould, were the “Banjo”
(“The Geebung Polo Club”),
Sir Charles Lilly (“Travel
Scenes in Maoriland”), John
Farrell and Ernest Favenc (“A
Tale of the Western Desert”'—a
harrowing one).
One cannot help noticing the
large number of Bulletin
writers of the 1890’s who helped
support “The Antipodean,” and
the names of the artists who pro-
vided most of the drawings—
Frank Mahoney, B. E. Minns,
Percy Spence, Alf Vincent,
George Lambert and W. Lister
Lister.
The editors marshalled an
imposing band and a good
variety of material; but, all
told, the literary level of the
annual was not high, in spite of
“quality” work by writers such
as Paterson, “Steele Rudd,”
Dyson, Boldrewood and Quinn.
Some writers’ contributions
were inferior to what is now
best representative of them
(that, perhaps, was inevitable),
and even one of the really
characteristic of Lawson’s stories
which appeared in the journal,
“The Bush Undertaker,” was
later to be revised, with con-
siderable improvement.
Essex Evans’s “Antipodean”
verse was not good. The full-
page illustration with the
atmosphere of a memorial
church-window (without the
color) that accompanied his
poem in the first number was
incomparably, and almost im-
properly, superior to the poem
“The Two Goblets”:
Bearing two crystal goblets in her
hands,
To a philosopher an angel came .
One wine shone clear as water o'er
bright sands.
One red as flame.
The poem is altogether too
Abou Ben Adhemish in tone,,
the moral is obvious, and banally
presented. Here Evans renders
himself completely defenceless
against Stephens’s opinion that
he was “not a very original
poet”; his defences are, even
in better poems, perhaps more
illusory than real. For, although
much of his work unmistakably
appeals, when subjected to com-
parative criticism it leaks
ordinariness.
But “The Women of the West”
will probably live long in Aus-
tralian school anthologies, and
his “An Australian Symphony”
deserves a permanent place
among the songs of the land:
Not as the songs of other lands
Her song shall be,
Where dim her purple shore-line
stands
Above the sea!
As erst she stood, she stands alone;
Her inspiration is her own.
From sunlit plains to mangrove
strands
Not as the songs of other lands
Her song shall be.
The grey gums by the lonely creek,
The star-crowned height,
The wind-swept plain, the dim blue
peak,
The cold white light.
The solitude spread near and far
Around the campfire’s tiny star.
The horse-bell’s melody remote.
The curlew’s melancholy note
Across the night....
Her song is silence; unto her
Its mystery clings.
Silence is the interpreter
Of deeper things.
O for sonorous voice and strong
To change that silence into song!
To give that melody release
Which sleeps in the deep heart of
peace
With folded wings.
It remains to Evans’s credit
that, though not native to Aus-
tralia, he sang wholesomely,
thoughtfully and consistently in
his Antipodes, and left behind,
when he died at Toowoomba on
November 10, 1909, verse which
is, in many instances, immeasur-
ably more acceptable than the
Sphinx-like stuff some natives
are writing today.


Public Notice
I, ALEXIS STEPHEN SEAGLOYE, of
Stateless nationality, bom at Tomsk,
Russia, resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 20 Denning Street,
Petersham, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948-1952.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney lightweight Noel Mc-
Growdie, who rides at about 7.4,
probably has more Cup wins
than any other horseman of
similar weight now riding in Aus-
tralia. Important wins, apart
from many minor Cups, include
four Tattersaff’s Cups, two Syd-
ney Cups, two Brisbane Cups, a
Queensland and a Doomben
Cup. So far the Melbourne and
Caulfield Cups have eluded him,
but he stiff has time.
McGrowdie was seen to ad-
vantage on the lightly-weighted
Dark Fife (7,10) when he cleared
out with Tattersaff’s Cup on the
second day of that club’s meet-
ing at Randwick. Favorite Regal
Glitter and outsider Royal Eagle
filled the minor places. Mc-
Growdie, a master judge of
pace in staying races, made fuff
use of his puff in the weights
on the heavy track. Dark Fife
was taken to the lead six furlongs
from home and ran out the mile
and a half in grand style, his
opponents floundering in the
rain-sodden going. The winner
atoned for his narrow defeat in
the A.J.C. Summer Cup. Double
Blank, who won that event, found
the penalty and the going a
double he couldn’t overcome,
finishing a distant fourth. The
mile and a half took 2.39£, slow-
est for the race since Kiaree won
in the wet in 1947 in 2.42.
Prince Jambo outclassed the
opposition in Tattersaff’s
Nursery on Cup day. Prince
Jambo, whose name was changed
from Jammock after his prior
start (third to Headingly at
Randwick on Boxing Day), may
not have another outing until
the day the Queen attends Rand-
wick, but that has yet to be de-
cided. Prince Jambo cost 2100
guineas as a yearling last April
and is a product of the Puen
Buen Stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
• • • •
Karendi, winner of Tattersall’s
Carrington Stakes from Foreign
Exchange and Hans, was at
odds-on throughout before the
running of the race, but on the
outcome of the photo.-finish
quite a number of backers se-
cured even money. Those who
thought Foreign Exchange had
won had to lay odds on, and
left their money with book-
makers, most of whom thought
the hot favorite had been de-
feated. Mrs. A. F. Smith races
Karendi in conjunction with
executors of the late A. F. Smith.
A small coterie of well-in-
formed punters landed one
wager of £5OOO to £6OO when
Gulf Palm Won the Randwick
Juvenile Maiden in good style.
The colt hadn’t done much in
the way of fast work, although
a few days before the race he
had sprinted well over three fur-
longs. Sledmere (Scone, N.S.W.)
studmaster M. V. Point sold
the Royal Trophy (imp.)
youngster at Randwick April
yearling sales for 230 guineas to
a Queensland pastoralist, C. P.
Edwards, Palm Beach (imp.),
dam of the colt, is a sister to
Palm Vista, now at the stud in
Victoria, and is by Sir Cosmo
from Datuva by Epinard.
Little wonder Harvest Home,
which opened her winning
account in the A.J.C. two-year-
old Maiden (fillies), can gallop.
She is from a daughter of
Gloaming, a noted speedster of
his time, and winner of 57 races
and £43,000 in stakes. The filly
had started twice previously for
two seconds, both times at odds-
on, but most likely the heavy-
betting Tommy Smith Randwick
stable recovered earlier losses, as
she was supported from 4 to 1 to
6 to 4, and she won easily in
59i secs, for the five furlongs,
a smart effort. She is a daughter
of imported Hunter’s Moon and
Gold Gleam (three-quarter sister
to former speedster Captivation,
Heroic Faith and Gloriole) by
Hall Mark from Gloaming's
Sister by The Welkin (imp.) from
Light by Eager.
Reared at the Widden Stud,
Kerrabee (N.S.W.), and bred by
Mrs. G. Finlay, of Sydney, A 1
Crusa, a half-brother to Bai-
fleur, a winner of the Caulfield
Guineas, and related to former
top-class performers Victory
Lad and The Trump won the
Second Youthful Handicap at
Moonee Valley at first start. The
colt is raced by Bill Balloch,
whose colors were sucessfully
carried by Alister, dual 1950
Derby winner, Balloch, a Mel-
bourne baker and a leading trot-
ting steward, bought the colt
in Adelaide for 600 guineas, and
he seems to have made a bar-
gain purchase. A chestnut, he is
by A 1 Wassat (imp.) from Creusa
by Ajax.
Prairie Dance, odds-on winner
of the First Youthful Handicap
at Moonee Valley, is by im-
ported Nebris (by Big Game)
from Western Lady by St. Mag-
nus (imp.) and belongs to a
family which produced several
smart stayers. Prairie Dance is
the 14th winner of two-year-old
paces from F. W. Hoysted’s
stable since October 1.
An interesting winner in
Maiden two-year-old company
at Moonee Valley was Affiant,
bred by N.S.W. studmaster
Laurie Morgan and sold as a
yearling for 220 guineas at the
Randwick sales last Easter. A
few seasons ago Ambitious, dam
of Affiant, won in two-year-old
company at Randwick. Affiant
is by Valiant Chief, is a first
foal, and is from a half-sister
to Hestia, winner of a W.A.T.C.
Derby.
One of the oldest races on the
Australian Turf calendar is
Tattersall’s (Sydney) Club Cup,
which has been run over one
mile and a half since 1910. It
had previously been decided at
two miles. Record-timeholder
for the 12 furlongs is Dewar —
2min. 30sec. in 1942. Cym-
bidium was successful last sum-
mer when ridden by Noel
McGrowdie, who also won the
Cup on Kiaree, on Grand Fils,
and again on Saturday last on
Dark Fife. Biff Cook also has
had four Cup successes, his
winners being Jeypore in 1931
and, 1 later. Swan River, Aval-
anche and Freedom. Fred Shean,
now trying his hand at training,
had three wins, Auto Buz, Billy
Boy and Feminist. First Tatt.’s
Cup was decided in 1868.
America’s foremost jockey,
Willie Shoemaker, completed the
1953 season on December 31
with 485 wins —easily a world’s
record for one year. Though
racing is almost a daily routine
in the U.S., the total is phe-
nomenal when compared with
the previous best, 390 by Ameri-
can Tony Despirito in 1952.
England’s best, 269, belongs to
Sir Gordon Richards, and the
Australian record, 126, is held by
Bill Cook (1939-40). Cook is
stiff one of the best horsemen in
this country. K. Voitre rode 123
winners in New Zealand some
years ago, the Dominion record.
Gordon Richards is in sight of
his 5000th winner since he first
became a jockey.
English sire Pamphilos, by
Panorama, has had several
winners in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, including speedy Cellar
Master and Winemaker. An-
other of his progeny. King Boru,
from Dream Rocks by Golden
Sovereign (imp.), won the Gran-
ville Stakes for Maiden two-year-
olds colts and geldings at the
Valley. The colt cost 800
guineas at the Melbourne year-
ling sales in March,
World’s fastest II furlongs,
2.14 1/5, is credited to a former
U.S.A. champion, Man-o’-War,
at Belmont (N.Y.) in 1920. The
record nearly went when New
Zealander Royal Scrip, winning
the Wairarapa Cup last Satur-
day, cut out the 11 furlongs in
2.15 —extraordinary time for a
minor Dominion event. Royal
Scrip’s 2.15 equalled the best for
England, recorded by Abbot’s
Trace in 1921, and is an Austra-
lasian record. Previous best,
2.15 L was shared by Burlesque
(Caulfield, 1934) and Lord
Valentine (Doomben, 1941).
Sydney is to return to mid-
week racing (once a month) at
Canterbury on February 10,
when Sydney Turf Club will
provide £3OOO for half a dozen
events. There will be no ex-
tension of the six-race card, and
a start may be made about 2 p.m.
It is likely the moderate gallopers
will be given further chances to
earn stakemoney. The races
will not be broadcast, but some
daily newspapers provide a tele-
phonic service for inquirers, who
are told racing and other sport-
ing results, simply by calling
those offices. Maybe this will
be curtailed when mid-week
racing is resumed in the city area.
If the meetings, as expected,
draw maximum fields in the
weaker class, this should make
for better class at Saturday
fixtures.
“Got any seasick pills?”
Beau Ensign, a three-year-old
gelding by White Ensign (imp.)
from Jealousy, won a minor
event, the Second Three-and-
four-year-old Maiden at Gos-
ford, but if his background is
any indication of his staying
prospects he should run any
distance, with a bit of age on
him. Beau Ensign is closely
related to Rainbird (Melbourne
Cup), while the family lines in-
clude two other winners of that
race. Lord Cardigan and Lord
Nolan. Lady Rylestone, a stay-
ing mare, also figures in the
pedigree, as does Peter, a stay-
ing winner, who ran second in
a Melbourne Cup. Jealousy,
dam of the Gosford winner, is
a half-sister to Sequoia, dam of
Rainbird, and is by Marconi-
gram (imp.) from Desdemona
by All Black (imp.) from Dame
Lybia by Positano (imp,).
Horses frequently are
switched from one trainer to
another, and for varying rea-
sons, some frivolous. Some
trainers have no luck with horses
whose legs give a lot of trouble,
but when a switch is made the
new mentor may quickly win
races. Perisher, a seven-year-
old gelding racing mostly at
N.S.W, provincial tracks, is a
case in point. A horse of many
trainers, the veteran recently
struck a purple patch for
Rosebery mentor Bland Beck,
who has had him a brief time
only. Perisher’s off-foreleg has
given a lot of trouble, and when
he works on the tracks both
forelegs are heavily bandaged;
For Beck, Perisher has won five
races from seven starts, four
wins being consecutive.
The youngsters Hoad and
Rosewall kept Australia’s grip
on the Davis Cup, won back
from the U.S.A. in 1950 by
Sedgman and McGregor (with
Bromwich’s help in the doubles)
and since retained by the former
pair. This year the new com-
bination, the youngest pair ever
to defend the Cup, ably carried
on the good work. And here
let it be recorded that the Ameri-
cans, sportsmen all, and far
from disgraced, were the best
of losers.
This was the first time that a
team going straight into a chal-
lenge-round without previous
Davis Cup play has won the
round. The boys, who have
been on courts since their
primary-school days and who
have played together since they
were 15, already have to their
credit several “firsts” and
“youngests.” And they weren’t
worried by the occasion at all.
Hoad, winning both his Cup
singles, has only one possible
rival, Trabert, as the world’s No.
1 amateur. The marathon
Hoad-Trabert game, “power”
tennis at its best, could have
gone either way. In the 13-11
first set, and again in the de-
ciding fifth set (7-5), Trabert
often won his services more
easily than did Hoad, who at
times had to fight back hard to
hold service. But it was Hoad
who broke-through in' both sets.
• • • •
Rosewall, no match for Tra-
bert, was too good for Seixas
in the deciding fifth game. His
service, his weakest link, didn’t
let him down (neither player
managed to ace the other). Rose-
wall, with his classical ground-
strokes and beautiful passing-
shots, has always been too good
for Seixas, a net-rusher pure
and simple lacking a really
powerful serve. But the Ameri-
can is a fighter, and saved half
a dozen Davis Cup points before
finally netting.
As for the doubles, Hoad and
Hartwig were not, as most re-
ports had it, playing together for
the very first time. They’ve not.
been paired in recent tourna-
ment-play, but they were
given a trial as a team during
Cup preparations. Nor was the
decision to play them a hasty,
last-minute one; in the week
before the actual play it was
reported that they were the
likely doubles-pair. Also, Hart-
wig, with a sound backhand, is
at home in either right- or left-
hand court. Trabert and Seixas
on the day played fine tennis,
and may have toppled any com-
bination opposed to them. All
the same, the selectors showed
poor judgment —for if Hoad and
Rosewall weren’t the pair, then
it was obviously Rose and Hart-
wig.
In the two Sheffield Shield
games decided before the New
Year N.S.W. had a comfortable
outright win against Victoria, and
South Australia won similarly,
though not quite so comfortably,
against Queensland. South Aus,
got rid of the last Northerner
only 10 minutes before stumps.
N.S.W. at this stage looks the
best bet to Shield. It
has a powerful batting line-up
and a varied and hostile attack.
There are eight Test players in
the side and a couple of possibles
of the near future.
Ray Harvey seems to have
established himself in the Vic-
torian XI. A couple of years
older than Neil, he is the
fourth of the Harvey brothers to
play for Victoria. He has been
in and out of the side for the
last couple of years, but he
finished last season well; this
season an 80-odd against Queens-
land has been topped by an
attractive 91 in the second in-
nings against N.S.W. and a cen-
tury in the first innings against
S.A. First Harvey in the
Vic. team was Merv, an aggres-
sive opening-bat, who played for
several seasons. In his only
Test, the fourth 1946-47 Test
against England, he and Morris
made a first-wicket stand of 116
in the second innings (Harvey’s
share, 31). The other Harvey to
play first-class cricket, Clarrie
called Mick, is now with Queens-
land.
• • • •
Features of the S.A. v.
Queensland game were the
double-century by Hole, Mick
Harvey’s century and a fine all-
round effort by veteran Queens-
lander Mick Raymer. Raymer,
coming in tenth, with 85 needed
to avoid a follow-on, made 84,
one short of his top-score in
first-class games. When Ray-
mer had scored 3 his partner,
Burge (who made 65), was 47;
the new ball was then taken, and
in seven overs off it Raymer
hit-up 47 while Burge added 3,
the two batsmen getting their 50
almost together. Raymer then
went on to take 7-100 in S.A.’s
second innings (8-222, closed).
The second South Africa v.
N.Z. Test at Johannesburg was
won by the home side, which
had also won the first. This
one was more even, and at one
stage, wnen the N.Z. bowlers
had caused a S’African second-
innings collapse, N.Z. looked to
have a good show. But the local
trundlers in their turn started
mowing ’em down.
“K.R.”: Graeme Hole’s 226
against Queensland is the first
double-century in Sheffield
Shield for nearly two years. The
previous one was Lindsay
Hassett’s 229 (his highest first-
class score), made in the last
Shield match of the 1951-52
season against South Australia.
There were two other Shield
double-centuries that year, one
by Arthur Morris (210 against
Victoria), the other by Colin
McDonald (207 against N.S.W.
—not in the same game in which
Morris’s runs were made). The
two double-centuries made last
season were both against South
Africa. One was lan Craig’s 213
not out for N.S.W-, the score
which put him well on the road
to England; the other was by
Neil Harvey, who, after getting
190 in the third Test, reached
the double-century (205) in the
fifth.
• • • •
“Dalmore”: I witnessed, the
other day, what was undoubtedly
bright cricket. Opening an
innings shortly before stumps,
the opening pair hit up 103 runs
in 35 minutes. One batsman
scored 83 of the total, and
sundries contributed five. “Wit-
nessed” is the correct word, for I
was the other batsman.


TOBACCO CRUMBS
By BRIAN
JAMES
JACK FORAN was a sturdy
youth, originally credited
with his father’s eyes,
which were blue, and a
Foran heritage ; and his mother’s
nose, which was straight and
longish—and a marked feature
of “her people,” the Ryans. His
mouth probably came from
either side, or both. It was big.
The rest of him was not so
pleasing. For example. Jack
had insisted on more than a fair
allowance of original sin—no
one else was to blame for that-
And he had slyly hidden his
possession of such overplus till
he came to that stage which the
catechism described as the Age
of Reason, when a child was
confidently expected to have
pretty exact knowledge of the
difference between Good and
Evil.
“I don’t know, I’m sure,
where that boy gets his temper
from,” said Mrs. Foran many a
time.
“I’ll knock a bit of that out
of him before he’s finished,”
said his father just as often.
“You can’t believe a word he
says—that a child of mine
should turn out to be a liar!”
said his mother.
“I’ll give him lies!” said his
father, grimly.
TACK was popular at school,
** which meant that he got a
fair share of the stick from Mr.
Wright; teachers then wielded
the waddy pretty freely. Jack
and some of the “other boys”
went swimming at dinner-time
and got found out. Six that
time for all of them —and a
court-martial at home over it —
and a first-rate belting, too.
There were rows over smok-
ing. Jack smoked from the age
of eight onwards intermit-
tently, with big punctuation-
marks every now and then. The
Foster boys brought cigarettes
to school, and Jack was graci-
ously allowed to commence the
accomplishment of smoking on
bumpers. It is doubtful if he
enjoyed the smoking as much as
the wickedness of it. It was a
fearful venture, and that made
it more desirable still.
But after a while he really got
to like tobacco, despite two
most trying experiences of being
sick from some “strong stuff”
which he smoked in an old
clay-pipe. It says much for his
inherent wickedness and de-
pravity, or of his strength of
character, that he persisted after
these two bouts. They were
awful, and went according to
a well-known plan in three
stages: head- and stomach-pains
and violent retching—one was
going to die, that was certain ;
sorrow for the condition and
for ever having touched the
stuff at all; a generous bargain
made with God —“Let me get
over this, and I’ll never smoke
again. Never. Oh, God, it’s not
worth it.”
This was genuine enough, too,
and the resolve to forswear
smoking was accompanied by
the renouncement of all other
forms of villainy: “I’ll be
good.” Vivid memories came of
stories of boys said to have died
of smoking—“turned yellow and
the doctor could do nothing.”
But Jack had recovered ; and in
the clear light of day and in
restored strength of limb and
good health the contrition and
the resolution vanished. He
could laugh at the business now
and boast about it to other
boys: “Gee, I thought I was a
goner.”
Supplies of the necessary were
hard to come by. Tobacco in
those days was cheap enough,
but money was scarce. Dark
tobacco —mostly a black, moist,
villainous compound was
cheaper than light (or bright),
but it demanded almost super-
human powers to deal with it
with any recognisable signs of
nonchalance and enjoyment.
Jack’s two trials of sickness had
come from a stuff called Dark
Sunlight—a miserably deceptive
title. Certainly Conqueror,
Yankee Doodle and Havelock
were better —if you could get
them. Diadem, bright leaves
streaked with gold, was a lovely
tobacco —put up in such neat
plugs of two and four ounces —
it was the sort of tobacco that
angels smoked.
But Diadem was dear. Mr.
Foran smoked it sometimes, and
once Jack gnawed off a hunk
from the plug when opportunity
offered. There was a big row
over that and Jack got no end
of a hiding over it. His father
noticed the deficiency in the
plug, to say nothing of the
inexpertness of the cutting.
To make up for the inade-
quacy of supply, substitutes
were tried out. There were tea-
leaves —best of all; aromatic,
too, but very acrid, burning the
tongue and raising a lump on
the palate. “Look at that! ” said
Wally Foster once. “That’s tea-
leaves!” He opened his mouth
and invited inspection of the
roof thereof. “Big as a hen’s
aig, you bet it is,” he boasted.
It must have taken a lot of per-
sistent courage to raise a lump
like that.
Appletree-bark was better
than nothing, but it burnt with
a fierce glow. Dried horse-dung
—in pipe or cigarette—was
better, but there were social
aversions from it, as it indicated
very low tastes. Quince-leaves,
large golden-brown leaves, sun-
dried under the trees, were as
good as anything, but for some
reason never quite caught on.
Shredded finely, they made ex-
cellent cigarettes; they smoked
well in a pipe; and the rolled
leaf made a good cigar—if you
could keep them rolled up.
Roots from the creek-bank
found great favor, largely be-
cause they drew well and
allowed great puffs of smoke to
be blown out through mouth
and nostrils. But their satisfac-
tion ended there; they burnt the
tip of the tongue, and the
proper flavor simply wasn’t in
them. Cane (for smoking) was
hard to come by. Certainly
Wally Foster did, one dinner-
hour, hack off a three- or four-
inch length of Mr. Wright’s
cane and smoked it before an
admiring audience. Behind the
dunny, that was; and Wally
strutted to and fro, blowing out
great spurts of smoke like a
dragon. It was lovely to see old
Wright’s cane put to such noble
use. Mr. Wright found out, and
he put the residue of his cane
to its ordained, if ignoble, use
on Wally’s horny palms.
MOW, there was a local hall,
sometimes referred to by the
high-sounding but meaningless
title of School of Arts; but
mostly by the more simple term
of The Hall. Quite a pretentious
structure, just the same, built of
hardwood, iron-roofed, and with
an excellent dancing-floor. At
one end was a stage. Grand
concerts were held occasionally,
and sometimes local talent put
on a play. Mr. Wright, who was
enterprising and progressive,
used it for school performances.
But the more frequent occa-
sions were dances- —socials they
were called. There was a small,
well-thumbed library a few
hundred volumes, with special
emphasis on Nat Gould, Mrs.
Henry Wood and Marie Corelli.
Tess Foran was librarian, not
a very onerous job, and as often
as not she made the entries in
her mind instead of a book.
Sometimes she didn’t even make
the entry anywhere. It was
rather haphazard, but, taking it
by and large, good enough.
The Forans’ was the closest
home to the hall, a quarter of
a mile or so away, and that
made Tess the handiest librarian
to have.
Wednesday night was the
regular library night, but Tess
seldom went along then —her
brother Harry deputised for her.
Harry was the oldest of the
Forans —twenty-three or twenty-
four, now. A big, awkward
slab of a fellow, slow and good-
natured, and a sort of junior
partner to his father.
On Wednesday nights Harry
would go along to the hall and
light up a few bracket-lamps on
the walls, and the big swing-
lamps in the centre. If the night
was cold he’d make a good lire
in the big fireplace. Then he
would light his pipe and sit
down and wait for the “others.”
The “others” were three or four
of the locals who made Wednes-
day night a pleasant fore-
gathering for a smoke and a
yarn and a game of cards. And,
maybe, change a book . . .
It might be Sid Webb; “The
old man sends this back,
Harry.”
“What is it, Sid?”
“Aw —For the Term of His
Natural Life. He didn’t like it
much, Harry.”
“They say it’s pretty fair.
What would he like now?”
“I dunno —he’s read the lot
that’s worth reading, he says.
And he says to bring The Dark
Horse if you’ve got nothing
else. He’s read it three times
already to my knowledge.”
So The Dark Horse —very
much ill-used, and with pages
missing—went back to the senior
Webb for a fourth reading. A
page or two missing here and
there didn’t matter much if you
had already read the book. A
bit annoying, perhaps, but not
so bad so long as the last pages
were there.
After this strictly-business was
dawdled through, there was an
interval of standing by the fire
—a warming of the rear por-
tions, or a facing of it to kick
the logs occasionally. And de-
sultory remarks on the weather:
“Cold enough to snow, but it
won’t snow. Only get snow here
once in a blue moon.” Or the
relative merits of Stein Weidel
or Purple Straw; but “I
wouldn’t have Manitoba on my
mind —not after last year. And
I don’t care if the millers do
like it —they can go out and
grow it for themselves.”
By such easy stages they got
round the table, drawn-up near
the fire, and euchre it was. It
was always euchre. Good game,
euchre, even if in places it was
called a blackfellow’s game. 1
was a break in the week s woik
and companionship. And they
knocked out their pipes on their
heels, or on the end of a glow-
ing log, or on the bricks in the
fireplace. And they cut off new
fills, and rammed them into the
bowls and puffed away again.
ONCE, when there was to be
a social, Jack
conscripted by Tess to help
with the hall.” That meant
sweeping out, and filling all the
lamps, and washing-up the
plates and cups and spoons in
the galvanised skillion. Jack
didn’t mind, really, and Tess
was almost decent on these
occasions, perhaps in anticipa-
tion of the good time she’d have
at the dance. The hall, too, was
fascinating in its way, the many
chairs round the walls, that all
those people would sit on; the
big stage and its roller-curtain ;
the big press full of books ; the
sparrow’s-nests to be dislodged
in the louvre of the gabled
front; getting firewood ready
for the galley outside. And a
dozen other things.
Tess was almost human then ;
in fact, she might have been
someone else in her attitude to
Jack. Treated him as if he were
grown-up.
“Really and truly,” she said,
“I think it’s disgraceful!”
“What is, Tess?”
“Just look at it—the way they
leave that floor.”
That was by the table near the
fireplace —liberal scatterings of
tobacco-ash, half-charred
tobacco, and quite a deal of
perfectly good tobacco that had
escaped from rubbing hands.
Tess broomed it together, but
Jack had seen enough there to
realise what a treasure trove it
was. Enough tobacco to be
gleaned there to keep an enter-
prising fellow in the necessary
for weeks. Not this time, of
course, for Tess had swept it
all, with the ash and the dried
mud, into the fireplace. But it
was worth remembering.
Some weeks later, after a
Wednesday-night session, he
paid a secret visit to the hall and
made a rich harvest from the
floor, brushing together the
good leavings onto a sheet of
paper. Better still, someone had
left the heel of a plug on a
window-sill, a piece of perfectly
good tobacco. A piece as big as
your thumb.
It was easy to get into the
hall, too. The skillion was
divided into three rooms —used
on occasions as room for dress-
ing, catering, ladies retiring and
so forth. The end room was
hardly ever locked, and into it
opened a window on the stage.
That window was never closed.
All one had to do was enter the
end room and climb through
the stage window and you were
in the hall.
It was a windfall for Jack.
With a clay-dab he was able
to enjoy many a good smoke.
Once, when he was a trifle care-
less about the smell, he got the
grandfather of a hiding, both
for smoking and for the evasive
answers he gave as to sources
of supply.
TT was a Thursday after school,
•*- a poor sort of day: he and
Wally Foster had been lammed
by Mr. Wright for feeding Mrs.
Wright’s fowls small, hard
crusts to which had been tied
short lengths of thin twine. To
the ends of the twine pieces of
paper were attached. The full
humor of the situation derived
from the grotesque antics of the
fowls when they swallowed the
string and could do nothing
effective about the paper. Jack
was “told-on” at home, and Mr.
Foran, being handy at the time,
gave Jack another hiding.
Jack felt pretty sore in more
ways than one, but there was the
promise of solace as he sneaked
off to the hall.
But for once the door of the
end room was locked. Tess,
bless her! must have done that
when she changed someone’s
book. She would! And on this
of all days, too! The other
rooms were locked; but the
stage window would be all
right, if he could only get into
the end room.
The hall was built on wooden
piles, fairly high in front and
tapering off at the back, the
stage, end. One could crawl
under where the sole-plate was
reasonably high and work away
under the stage. Here was
plenty of room on account of
the high stage floor, but that
didn’t help much. There was
still the very narrow opening,
under the sole-plate, into the
end room.
Jack looked at it —it was
narrow. Six or seven inches,
certainly not much more, it
seemed. But Jack remembered a
popular theory that your body
would follow in any place
where your head could go.
There had been a story of a
prisoner making his escape from
jail, who filed through a bar
and squeezed his body through
an incredibly narrow opening.
He got his head under the
sole-plate —no trouble about
that, really. But the shoulders
weren’t so easy at all. The
ground was rock-hard, and there
was no give in the hardwood-
plate. All give must come from
the squeezing body. Pity he
hadn’t taken off his coat and
jumper. They took up a lot of
room, and the coat would get
pretty dirty and dusty, too. But
too late to do that now.
He thought it might after all
be better to go back —he was
pausing, now, after a very hard
struggle to win an inch or two
more. He puffed and panted,
and the whole weight of the
building was pressing down on
him. Or so it seemed. Yes,
he’d better go back, and leave
the tobacco. Leave it! Not
now, surely! Another squeeze
or two and he’d be there. And
there’d be no need to come back
this way—he could get out by
the front door and slam it shut
after him: it had one of those
patent-locks.
Another struggle, and he de-
cided to withdraw. It wasn’t
worth it, and he’d never do it.
He couldn’t breathe; not
properly. He was suffocating.
He began to struggle back,
but the coat and jumper
bunched and held him fast.
And yet he’d better hurry; he
couldn’t breathe. He tried again,
desperately. And then came the
realisation that he was caught
in a trap. He couldn’t get back.
He’d try forward again, very
desperately. And he was caught
as securely as ever. He tried to
pull away the coat and jumper,
and couldn’t reach them.
He lay still after a while and
reasoned things out clearly. At
least he tried to . . . Just too
silly to think that he couldn’t
get out —of course he’d get out
—next try, he would. And then
he was afraid to make another
attempt because he knew he
wouldn’t get out . . .
A RATTLE of wheels and
thudding of hooves . . .
Tom Grice and the big two-
horse lorry from J. M. Sparks
and Co. Thursday—that’s
right; it would be Tom, deliver-
ing the weekly order from
Sparks’ big store ... As long as
he could remember, Tom had
been doing the delivery. Great
fellow Tom —his big, cheery
voice; “Here we are again, Mrs.
Foran . . . and now for your
little lot!” Big or little, it was
always there, never a thing
missing, never a thing damaged
or broken . . .
And this was Tom Grice now.
Would he call out for help?
And what would he say when
Tom came round the side of the
hall? Tom wouldn’t be able to
get to him either ... Tell Tom
to tell them at home that he was
(Continued on page 30)


1
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
* Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
dy £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
JL Every LAV IN A has a no n-
magnetic escapement and a
17-jewelled movement.
LAVKNA
WATCHES
4 ilm
mu
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITION S
THE EISENHOWER ATOM-PLAN
44 £ Tis not enough to take this
weapon [atomic power ]
out of the hands of the soldiers.
It must be put into the hands of
those who will know how to
strip its military casing and
adapt it to the cause of peace.
.... Peaceful power from atomic
energy is no dream of the
future. The capability, already
proved, is here — now — today.”
On that note President Eisen-
how.er, in his address before
U.N.O. on December 8, follow-
ing his discussions of this and
other momentous issues with
Prime Minister Churchill and
French Premier Laniel at Ber-
muda, made his obviously very
carefully considered, and pos-
sibly desperate, proposal for
getting over, or around, the
a tom-weapons deadlock and
making a beginning with turning
atomic power to peaceful pur-
poses.
A wide sampling of world-
Press reactions since shows
these as characterised by
cautious hope, rather than by
any great wishfulness, and this
goes also for the reactions to
Russia’s agreement to join in
the first steps of further “ex-
ploring” the proposal in diplo-
matic (which should mean sec-
ret) discussions. Presumably
these will be entered on by the
Foreign Ministers at Berlin.
Meanwhile, the Eisenhower
speech having been covered at
length in cables, general world-
Press analyses and comments
are given in the following repre-
sentative coverage. Looking into
the new plan’s meaning, they
compare it with the past plans,
from all of which it represents
a radical departure which must
have been taken with extreme
reluctance. Still, they find in
the new plan at least enough of
promise to usher in this New
Year on a new lift of hope,
however qualified.
* * ♦
New York “Herald Tribune”
foreign-affairs writer Roscoe
Drummond: “The President’s
atomic plan is breathtakingly
constructive. That is why it
may be difficult for Moscow to
accept it.
“The President’s atomic plan
is sensationally simple. That is
why it may be difficult for Mos-
cow to refuse it.
“The plan is for the principal
nations to create a modest inter-
national stockpile of fissionable
material to be used, under safe-
guards, by an international
agency, to develop the benefi-
cent, peaceful uses of atomic
energy for all mankind.
“The significance of this plan
is not that it proposes so much
but that it proposes so little.
It proposes enough to make it
worth while but not so much as
to make it impossible.”
The same: “What Mr. Eisen-
hower put before the United
Nations almost totally reverses
the approach of the original
Acheson-Lilienthal and Baruch
programmes for atomic control.
The Baruch plan, which is still
valid and still has American
support, rested on the premise
that the only way to accomplish
anything toward atomic control
was to accomplish everything
at once.
“The new Eisenhower plan
rests on the premise that the
only way to accomplish any-
thing toward atomic control is
to accomplish little, proving it
along the way and then mov-
ing forward.” [This, inciden-
tally follows the piecemeal-
approach strongly advocated in
the past by Anthony Eden as
the only way to tackle foreign-
affairs problems in general.
Hitherto the American ap-
proach has been on all*or-
nothing lines, and not only in
things atomic.]
Same: “The Baruch plan,
which all but the Communist
nations in the U.N. approved,
called for international owner-
ship of all fissionable material,
international control and inter-
national inspection of all atomic
facilities. The Soviet Union re-
jected it at all points, and there
are many in the American Gov-
ernment who drew a sigh of re-
lief when it was evident that we
[U.S.A.] weren’t going to have
to make good upon our own
support of such sweeping con-
trols so hard to enforce,
“The Eisenhower plan rests
upon the more realistic view
that a full-scale atomic treaty
cannot be attempted at the start
and must be the result of a
more peaceful world, that
atomic disarmament will not
precede but might follow the
easing of the cold-war tensions.
“Therefore, the President pro-
poses that the nations get used
to working together in a U.N.
atomic agency to develop some
of the non-military uses of
atomic power without any prior
attempt to stop producing
atomic weapons.”
Same: “American officials be-
lieve that the Kremlin can ac-
cept this plan, and profoundly
hope it will. It can be said with
knowledge that its terms were
conceived so that both the
American and Soviet Govern-
ments could accept it safely.
The proof that it is a serious,
hopeful proposal, not just a
strategic move in psychological
warfare, is that it does not in-
volve international ownership,
international control, inter-
national inspection of national
atomic facilities.”
Same: “Obviously, the
American people and the
American Congress - and the
Russians as well will want to
be assured that the proposed
international stockpile of fission-
able material, however small,
can be made immune to sur-
prise seizure. This aspect of the
plan particularly has been
worked on for some time by
the atomic scientists.”
* * *
tt Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Though the President revealed
some grim facts about the
atomic power at the disposal of
America, he was certainly not
glorifying force, but illustrating
the magnitude of the problem
—London “Daily Express
“Earth, is it? Roger. Don’t bother about the rescue rocket —
we’re staying!”
of controlling weapons that
might wreck civilisation if they
were used indiscriminately.”
In the part of his speech re-
ferred to by “The Scotsman,”
President Eisenhower said;
“Today the United States
stockpile of atomic weapons,
which, of course, increases
daily, exceeds by many times
the explosive equivalent of the
total of all bombs and all shells
that came from every aircraft
and every gun in every theatre
of war through all the years of
World War 11. In size and
variety the development of
atomic weapons has been no
less remarkable. This develop-
ment has been such that atomic
weapons have virtually achieved
conventional status within our
armed services. In the United
States service, the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force and the
Marine Corps are all capable
today of putting this weapon
to military use,”
“Scotsman” (further): “His
idea is that an international pool
of fissionable materials should
be formed, to which Govern-
ments would contribute. They
would not put all they possessed
into the common fund, and thus
their capacity to build up a
stock of atomic weapons might
not be greatly affected. A world
atomic-energy bank could be-
come a useful instrument for
helping the backward areas of
the world, for furthering the
objects of the U.S. Point Four
programme. Co-operation of
this kind would be good in it-
self, but it is naturally hoped
that it would ease the problem
of lifting the shadow of atomic
warfare from the world. Presi-
dent Eisenhower seems to think
that if Russia and the Western
Powers agreed to combine in a
constructive task, the novel ex-
perience of working together
might lead to better understand-
ing and a willingness to tackle
afresh questions which at
present appear insoluble.”
* * * *
London “Daily Mail” : “If his
[Eisenhower’s] idea came off,
not only would stocks of uran-
ium for use in bombs be re-
duced, but little by little the
nations would get into the habit
of co-operating in the peaceful
use of atomic energy.
“It is like asking them all to
‘throw a bob into the kitty’—•
just to start with. As the game
goes on the investment in peace
will go higher.
“That is the hope and the
vision. It is a great and far-
sighted one which could mean
a new departure for Man in his
trek across the plains of
history.”
* * * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“The West—and indeed the
overwhelming majority of the
United Nations —were prepared
to take the [original] American
plan. It would have given an
international agency the power
to take over and control all the
plants in all nations which pro-
duced fissionable material. All
would have had to submit to
international inspection and no
nation would have had veto
powers to frustrate this inspec-
tion.
“When the scheme was work-
ing the United States would
have destroyed all its own
atomic weapons.
“The Russians wouldn’t have
it. They said the scheme was
incompatible with national
sovereignty. They produced a
plan of their own which, in the
Western view, would have en-
abled the Soviet Union to pro-
ceed at secret and uninspected
plants, and would have required
the destruction of American
bombs before control became
effective.
“And since 1949 the world
has lived in the shadow of this
rock of discord.
“Now President Eisenhower
says in effect:
“Let us found, and get into
operation, a United Nations
bank of uranium and other fis-
sionable materials —the makings
of atom- and hydrogen-bombs.
Let the nations which are pre-
dating this dangerous stuff
make contributions to the inter-
national store, in accordance
with rules to be drawn up in
‘private conversations.’
“Let us, for the moment, lay
aside the ‘irritations and mutual
suspicions incident to an/ at-
tempt to set up a completely
acceptable system of world-wide
inspection and control.’ Let us
start talking about using the
atom peacefully.
“Let us (the President sug-
gests) by-pass the rock, and see
what lies beyond it.”
The same: “The French now
have two reactors in operation ;
the Dutch and Norwegians are
actively engaged on a joint
atomic project; the Swiss are
designing a reactor ; the Indians
expect to have a uranium-
thorium factory, in fifteen
months’ time, with a reactor to
follow; and there are lively
plans for atomic plants in Bel-
gium, Australia and Brazil.
“These nations hope to har-
ness the atom for peace-time
uses. It is one of the purposes
of the Eisenhower Plan to place
fresh emphasis on such uses.”
* * ♦
“News Chronicle” science
editor Ritchie Colder: “First let
us be quite clear that an atom
bank or pool cannot be a physical
hoard, equivalent to the vaults of
the Bank of England, or Fort
Knox, where the American gold
bullion reserve is stored.
“By the nature of fissionable
materials they have to be kept
dispersed in uncritical amounts,
so that there can be no danger
of spontaneous explosions. And
the more widely dispersed they
are the better.
“Therefore any conception of
a bank or pool must be an
administrative one —bookkeep-
ing, with checks on all known
reserves.”
• • • *
The same: “There has been a
lot of talk of hydrogen atomic
energy, since the disclosure that
Russia, like America, appears to
have the hydrogen-bomb.
“But either H-bomb explosions
or the problematical industrial
use of H-energy depends upon
uranium fission. It is from the
heat of the uranium-bomb ex-
plosion that the temperatures of
millions of degrees necessary to
release energy by building hydro-
gen atoms into helium atoms
can be produced.
“I have so far heard no sug-
gestion how hydrogen atomic
energy can be controlled for in-
dustrial purposes.
“That brings us back to
uranium as a primary substance,
and to those deposits for which
everyone is competing.”
[These he lists, “in order of
importance,” as: Katanga
(Congo), Great Bear Lake
(Canada), Rum Jungle (Aus-
tralia), Colorado (U.S.A.),
Joachimstahl (Czechoslovakia),
Lake Baikal (U.S.S.R.), Mada-
gascar, Portugal.]
• • • •
Same: “Any figures [of stock-
piles] must be guesswork, but it
has been responsibly suggested
that America probably has 5000
atom-bombs, Russia 200, and
Britain (say) 20.”
♦ * ♦
Paris “Le Monde” : “After dis-
cussing his text with the repre-
sentatives of France and Britain
‘lke’ speaks the language that
can and should appeal to every
man of good sense whatever his
allegiance. ‘lke’ cannot accept
the idea that peace should be
based indefinitely on fear of re-
prisals from the other side. It
must be born, he says, clearly in
a new climate of mutual con-
fidence, a climate which cannot
be obtained by a single gesture,


TILLEY.. . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TIIXEST
products.
c3U
ms a
m
SBI Si
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic —only pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
however spectacular, but by
patience and tenacity.
“Essentially he suggests that,
to emerge from the blind-alley
of disarmament negotiations, we
should no longer begin with the
necessarily difficult examination
of negative measures largely of
a police character, such as pro-
hibitions and controls, but by
the creation, in a sphere still
spared by the cold war, of an
organism destined to establish a
climate of collaboration in which
the idea of peace could flourish
“Does not the idea in addition
provide the means of avoiding
the too probable failure of the
four-Power conference? ‘Let us
put aside our quarrels, let us start
fresh with a plan which can re-
awaken the faith of humanity,
let us begin by peace.’ Such
language would speak on both
sides of the Iron Curtain to the
heart of the crowds much more
warmly than discussions about
E.D.C. or the guarantees for Ger-
man elections,”
* ♦ ♦
Paris “L’Aurore”: “The
British and French had previ-
ously approved the President’s
text. Therefore, the next word
is, quite naturally, up to the Rus-
sians. On their answer, on their
official answer and on the go od-
or bad-will they show will
depend—and no one is deluded
about this —the evolution of in-
ternational relations.”
* * *
Maurice Ferro, in “Paris-
Presse”: “If the Russians were
to take him at his word, he [the
President] would have to figlk
against a great part of his own
[country’s] public opini/n, which
at the start might not look favor-
ably on the delivery to an inter-
national body of some of the
secrets of the Atomic Energy
Commission. ‘lke’ is risking his
popularity on the field of nuclear
peace.”
♦ » *
“Frankfurter Allgemeine Zei-
tung” (West Germany): “The
new thing in it [the Eisenhower
proposal] is that the American
President raises a hope for im-
mediate co-operation in the world
tor peaceful atomic develop-
ment,
“However, this alone would
scarcely be enough to transform
the previous pessimism on this
subject into optimism. The
decisive thing is the moment at
which the President has brought
forth his proposal. It is a
moment which may prove
to be unusually favorable. If
what the Russians have reported
about their own atomic- and
hydrogen-bombs is true, then
they no longer need to fear that
a ban on production would leave
them helpless in relation to the
United States, since they now
have their own powerful reserve.
“President Eisenhower’s pro-
posal serves to help remove from
the world the nightmare of war.
It may make new immense un-
productive efforts of the East
and West superfluous.”
♦ ♦ *
“Frankfurter Rundschau":
“President Eisenhower unmis-
takably makes a step in the
direction of the Soviets. The
fronts have not become more
rigid. That alone may some-
what console the troubled world.
A relaxation could provide im-
measurably more opportunity for
the civilian possibilities of nuclear
physics. Some of the speed of
the rush toward war has been
lost, and it may be slowed down
even more.”
♦ * *
“De Volkskrant," Amster-
dam: “The President did not
speak the redeeming word in the
armaments race and only could
make a new effort to end the
nightmare of atomic war. The
President is the first soldier of
peace. All now depends on a
Russian answer and, if the atomic
proposal is to lead to any con-
crete result, an overall agree-
merit with the Soviet Union is
required.”
*
“Toronto Globe and Mail” :
“Mr. Eisenhower made a new
approach to this question [of
atomic control]. He has aban-
doned the Baruch plan, hitherto
a cornerstone of. American
policy. In effect he has said that,
now or later, the only sure bul-
wark against an atomic war is
the goodwill and intelligence of
national Governments. No sane
—"De Volkskrant,” Amsterdam
"NOW, COULD I HAVE YOUR FACE ON THIS LITTLE THING?”
person, he said, would wish to
bring upon humanity a catas-
trophe which might reduce civi-
lisation to a shambles. No
political leader would wish his
name to be linked in history
with such a disaster. This is
world leadership from Mr. Eisen-
hower—on a very high and
idealistic plane,”
* * *
“New York Times”: “He
[President Eisenhower] recog-
nised frankly that other coun-
tries, including Soviet Russia,
have similar [atomic] weapons,
if still on a smaller scale. And
he admitted just as frankly that
there is no absolute defence
against these weapons. It is from
such considerations that he
urged both the control and the
ultimate abolition of atomic
weapons. Coming fresh from
the Bermuda conference, which
accepted the project of a confer-
ence with Soviet Russia, he
could outline all the more con-
vincingly the many steps which
the United States and its Allies
have taken and are still taking
to find peaceful solutions for
pending problems. His proposal
for an international atomic
stockpile represents a spectacular
climax to these efforts.”
♦ V *
“Manchester Guardian":
“President Eisenhower’s proposal
seems to amount to the creation
of an international agency, under
the United Nations, which would
store uranium and other fission-
able materials. It would allocate
these materials for peaceful uses.
The proposal raises immediately
three questions. Would the
agency have a monopoly of
fissionable materials? Unless it
had, it would offer no new safe-
guard to the world, since those
nations which had not placed
their whole stocks in the agency’s
keeping could still use them for
deadly aggression. Secondly, if
the agency had a monopoly, how
would it make sure that all fis-
sionable materials were reaching
it? International inspection has
been the reef on which all pre-
vious proposals for control have
foundered. Yet without inspec-
tion (which the President implies
to be unnecessary) there could be
no safety. Thirdly, what would
happen to existing atomic- and
hydrogen-bombs? It is not likely
that the President proposes their
immediate dismantling, but so
long as they exist the dreadful
threat of world destruction (well
described by the President him-
self) will continue to hang over
us.
“Presumably President Eisen-
hower sees his proposal merely
as a first stage—a first stage
which would break the long-
standing deadlock but would not
in itself provide for full control
and full security. As a means
of breaking the deadlock it may
be helpful. Let us hope—and
hope profoundly—that it is,”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph" :
“It would be a mistake to con-
ceive it as a scheme to prevent
the possibility of an atomic war.
Any such scheme must inevit-
ably take the lines of inter-
national control of atomic
energy, guaranteed by inter-
national inspection. The United
States proposed such a plan as
far back as 1946; and it has
foundered because Russia is un-
willing to permit genuine inter-
national inspection within her
frontiers. The time may come
to revive this idea, but President
Eisenhower’s suggestion is quite
different —that there should be
an international pool of fission-
able materials to which each of
the Governments principally in-
volved would contribute. No
Government would be expected
to put all its fissionable materials
into the pool. Its power to loose
atomic-warfare on the world
would therefore not necessarily
be affected.”
• • • •
The same: “There appear to
be two ideas behind the propo-
sal. The first is to create a pool
of atomic material that could
be developed internationally for
peaceful purposes. This is
wholly laudable. The potentiali-
ties of atomic energy in the way
of relieving human want and
drudgery are almost limitless.
The President’s references to the
provision of electrical energy to
the power-starved areas of the
world is specially fruitful, for a.n
atomic reactor is in effect a
powerful storage-battery. No
reasons of security militate
against the sharing of informa-
tion in this field, and it is work
into which men of science will
throw themselves with zest.”
Same: “The President’s
second idea was that by work-
ing together in the field of the
peaceful application of atomic
energy, Russia and the Western
world might gradually come to
lose their suspicions of each
other. In due course they might
be willing to submit to such a
control of atomic armaments as
now seems very remote. It can
only be fervently hoped that this
might prove to be so. But for
the immediate future the peace
of the world will continue to
rest upon the superiority of the
Western world in atomic power
and the knowledge that Com-
munist aggression with atomic
weapons would meet with a
devastating retaliation.
“This is not a permanent or a
very comfortable shield, but for
the present it is effective.”
* # ♦
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“With many nations, including
Russia, contributing fissionable
materials, there would be the
opportunity for an international
agency to put at mankind’s dis-
posal a whole new treasury of
wealth and power. That was
the gist of the proposal. If it can
be worked out —and the Presi-
dent pledged America’s full
efforts to that end—a concrete
and conceivably decisive turn
will have been given to the
world’s fortunes.”
♦ » V
London "Daily Mail": “1954
..,. . Forty years on since that
fateful 1914 when war first be-
gan to destroy the fabric of
society. Will it bring peace at
last?”
Various Voices
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“Nothing is nearer to my heart
than that before I have to go and
have to hand over my task to
another I shall have brought
Germany securely into the com-
munity of the free and demo-
cratic peoples of the Christian
West.”
M. Pierre Montel (speaking in
the French National Assembly’s
debate on the European Army):
“I prefer the uniformed German
wolf outside the sheepfold, not
within.”
Harold Macmillan {in charge
of the British Conservative-
party’s housing programme):
“Mr. Bevan said any fool could
build 300,000 houses [the party’s
target], but I know one fool who
didn’t.” [Bevan was his pre-
decessor.]
Sir Winston Churchill: “It
may well be [the Queen’s
journey] will be no less
auspicious, and the treasure she
brings back no less bright, than
when Drake first sailed an
English ship around the world.”
General Neguib: “Egypt is
searching eagerly for a new kind
of hat. We cannot adopt the
fedora, homburg or derby of
the West because our people
always regarded a brimmed hat
as the dress of an infidel.”
A union official on the British
Engineers’ 24-hour token-strike :
“This strike is a Duke of York
affair. The men march up the
hill and we march them down
again, and no one has anything
to gain but the Commies.”
Robert Murphy {Acting
Deputy U.S. Under-Secretary of
State): “The Communists have
not been able to use the United
Nations to serve their own ends.
They have tried to use it as a
sounding-board, but have only
succeeded in opening the eyes of
a vast portion of the globe to the
insidious nature of their propa-
ganda.”
Lord Mancroft: “The in-
creased social services and sub-
sidies which the Socialists have
so far promised would need an
increase of about three-shillings
in the pound on the income tax.
If we are going to fall for mass
bribery as blatant as this, Mr,
Aneurin Bevan may well have
been right when he told us at
Coventry that we are nearly all
insane.”


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
But remember, sweetheart —
you’re hooked on to me,”
She heard Sherwood breathe.
“Darling,” he said slowly, “I
can’t wait to get hooked on to
you.”
“Darling,” she said huskily.
Beryl, watching, waited im-
patiently for her to finish.
Natalie spoke a moment longer,
smiling as she gazed unseeingly
at the opposite wall, then put the
phone up and came out.
“Okay?”
“Yes, Beryl, my virgin sweet.
Okay. Dust the glad rags. We
shall be called for in the ship’s
jeep at eight.”
“Yippee!” said Beryl softly.
“Beryl.”
“Yes?”
Natalie smoothed the white
linen over her hips, looking
down,
“These boys have been at sea
a long time, kiddo,”
Beryl’s smile was both antici-
patory and knowing.
“So?”
“So —be careful.”
“Thanks for the motherly tip,
sweetheart. But little Beryl’s
been around.” She took Natalie’s
arm. “Come on, darling. We’ve
got work to get through. Before
work starts! ”
Sherwood worked on reports
till four o’clock. It was hot in
the cabin, with the wharf-sheds,
nodded over by a long row of
cranes, blocking the off-shore
breeze. But he wanted to be free
for the spell in harbor, and had
worked with characteristic con-
centration throughout the day.
When, that is, he was not
thinking of Natalie, her tall slim-
ness, her body, and the trick
she had of wetting her lips. He
was working on the report of
the damage to Ventner’s aircraft
the day Sherwood took to his
dinghy, when he remembered,
with a clarity that made him
lean back in his chair, the way
Natalie had gasped that first
night in Kure, months ago. He
had pressed on her, back of the
dark beach well along the harbor
road, with hungry intent. She
had pushed him away, wetting
her already moist lips.
“Don’t, Dick, please,” she
had panted. “Oh, don’t. No.
I will love you if you do! ”
“Then love me!” he had an-
swered, savagely. And pressed
upon her, and felt her give, sud-
denly, with a little inarticulate
cry . . .
Sherwood wiped his sweating
face. He threw his pen on the
desk. God, this sort of life was
unnatural. All of a man’s
natural urges compressed, con-
centrated, frustrated ; so that he
was like an animal when the
time came for release.
He pushed his chair back.
“Swannie,” he called.
“I hear you loud and clear,”
came from the adjoining cabin.
“Then get off your spine and
come and have a drink.”
“I hear you louder,” Swan
chuckled. “Set ’em up, feller.”
At seven o’clock Natalie turned
the ward over to her relief, a
stout matronly female who knew
—medically—more about men
than they knew themselves. To
her staff she was known dis-
respectfully, and probably accu-
rately, as the Virgin.
She looked enviously at
Natalie, cool, clean and lovely
in her white uniform, the gold of
her hair bow-waving attractively
before the semicircular curve of
her white cap.
“You’re going to the dance on
that carrier,” she asserted rather
than asked.
“That’s right,” Natalie smiled.
Her relationship with the Virgin
was purely professional—their
other interests lay miles apart.
yourselves in front
of that hungry mob of men,”
the other grumbled. “One day,
my fine lady”
“One day, my fine Marge,”
Natalie interrupted, “you’ll
satisfy someone’s hunger—one
day,”
She laughed, and swung,
lithely provocative, out of the
ward.
“Trollop,” muttered the
Virgin. Her gaze was still en-
vious.
Natalie closed the door of her
room, smiling as she loosed the
buttons of her tunic. One hour,
and she’d see him. A delicious
thrill curled in her. She
tossed her cap and veil on the
bed, then slipped from her uni-
form. Her hair ruffled with
pulling off her underwear, she
stepped in front of the ward-
robe mirror, humming softly.
(To be continued next week)
stuck under the hall. That
would sound awful. He’d never
live down the disgrace. He
could picture his father’s rage
over it all . , . And how would
he explain his getting into such
a difficulty —he couldn’t tell
them the truth, could he? And
how would they get him out?
Better hurry Tom Grice
would be right by. He’d have
to chance the disgrace of it —
he would think of some feasible
explanation—thought he heard
someone stealing the crockery,
and he was sneaking in to see
who it was. Anyway, they
wouldn’t believe him, whatever
he told them . . .
But hurry! “Mr. Grice!”
His voice wavered and ended
in a wail. Not his own voice at
all. The sound of it frightened
him. It filled the little room
with curious echoes. Round and
round they went, looking for a
way out, like himself, and never
finding it.
Tom Grice went on. He
hadn’t heard . . . “M-i-s-t-e-r
G-r-i-c-e!” Louder than before.
It hurt him, crying it out.
Worse echoes than before —and
Tom Grice went on . . .
He panicked. He cried out
inarticulately now, conscious of
being ashamed of himself as he
did so . . . He was thoroughly
exhausted, unable to breathe,
crushed beneath the unbearable
weight that he had to bear.
And the last ray of hope died
with the last sounds of Tom
Grice’s lorry.
r pHE early dark of winter
closed in. It had been dark
enough in here earlier. Now it
was pitch-black. Out of the
west came the wind ; it moaned
round the building, it screamed
through the trees. It laughed, it
howled, it mocked. It found a
badly-screwed sheet of iron and
rattled it and rattled it. Under
the building it crept and rushed
at him in the darkness . . .
Then came the voices, near
and far, and all round him out-
side, ail round the building.
Plain as plain could be: his
father . . . and that was Harry
. . . and, yes, sure enough, Mr.
Wright . . , and Bill . . . and, of
course, Wally Foster . . . and,
and ... He fairly screamed out
now. And all the voices stopped
and there was only the wind
left with its howling. He
listened and listened, and the
voices started again . . . Often
he had caught rabbits in traps
. . . How easy rabbits were to
catch! And how they bucked
about, and stretched and
strained to the short limits of
the chain that held them to the
spot . . . round and round, mak-
ing a perfect circle in the soft
ground . . .
He struggled again, uselessly,
with failing strength and clutched
at the hard ground with bleeding
fingers. The darkness was as
heavy as the building that
crushed him. It wasn’t cold. He
didn’t feel cold, only numb. And
the voices! Here they were
again, kindly voices this time.
He could hear his father quite
plainly—“by Jimminy! And
here he is!” His father wasn’t
angry. Wonderful, wonderful!
Discovery at last —and in the
peace of it he went to sleep . . .
'Vf'RS. FORAN was uneasy.
IVJ. “j_[ e ought to be back.
Where did he go?” Mr. Foran
said, “I’ll give him gallivanting
about when he comes in! ”
Tom Grice had been and gone
this long time. Supper was on
the big kitchen table. The foun-
tain on the stove was sending
out spurts of steam under its lid.
The fire glowed in the white-
washed fireplace. Tess went out
and called for Jack in the windy
darkness.
“Oh, come and have it,” said
Mr. Foran impatiently. Then,
grimly, “He’ll be here in a
minute.” There was to be a
warm homecoming for Jack
when he did arrive.
They had a most uncomfort-
able and uneasy tea. Where
could Jack be? Uneasiness be-
came alarm. “Aw, he’s all
right,” said slow Harry. “He’s
somewhere about and he’ll turn
up, you’ll see.”
It didn’t sound convincing. A
guilty feeling cam© over Mr.
Foran. Jack might have run
away. Well, it was a whale of a
hiding he’d given him. But he
deserved that. It was a duty
to give him a hiding. Doing
that to Wright’s fowls! Clearing
out, though! Wouldn’t sound
too well, would it?
MrsT Foran put Jack’s tea,
sausage and fried-up potatoes, on
the far end of the stove. She
put a tin plate over the top. She
became fussy and snappy and
blamed the others for fussing.
He’d be along any moment.
Then she went and called into
the wind. Between the stars and
the bending trees there was only
the wind that blew from the west.
HOURS later. “It’s foolish,”
said Mr. Foran, “to go on
like this!” He said it to the
others, but was only trying to
convince himself. He couldn’t
help remembering that hiding
he’d given Jack.
“Aw, he’s over at Foster’s,”
said Harry, “Or him and that
young rip of a Wally have cleared
out together.”
Tess and Annie said they’d
go. But Harry and Bill went.
“I’d tan him properly,” said
Harry to Bill, “if I was the old
man.” It was seeping into
Harry’s sluggish mind that the
family was being disgraced.
Jack wasn’t at Foster’s. Worse
still, the Fosters were all asleep
and had to be roused up. Old
Foster was of the considered
opinion that Jack should have “a
proper lambing-down.”
Then they went to other neigh-
bors and roused them. But no
news of Jack. They couldn’t
think where he might be. Per-
haps, though, asleep in the hay-
shed up the paddock; he might
be there.
The night wore on. Mrs.
Foran from time to time looked
at Jack’s sausage and potatoes as
if that might bring Jack. “Drat
it,” she said, “they are hardly fit
to eat, now.” The sausage was
like a charred stick, and the
potatoes had baked brown and
hard . . .
MORNING flowed in like a
lazy tide and the wind had
died down. But Jack came not
with the morning, nor was he in
his bed. A dozen times Tess had
gone in to see if Jack were asleep
there; sneaked in during the
night. The bed was made,
covered with a torn patch-quilt.
Tess thought the bed looked
small and pathetic. She cried
bitterly.
The alarm spread. Neighbors
gathered.
“Only one thing for it,” said
old Foster, a gnarled, withered-
up specimen, but with a cunning
look in his grey eyes, and won-
derfully active for all his dried-
out appearance. “Only one
thing,” he repeated, “and that’s
a search-party. You must have
a search-party.”
Foster was probably enjoying
himself in his own way, and
made a search-party sound like
a sort of picnic. So, more or less
organised, they searched every-
where. Even the big dam up
the paddock. “I’ve known boys
to drown themselves —deliber-
ate,” said old Foster.
As far as they could discover
by poking with poles, Jack wasn’t
in the dam. And, cold as it was,
George Farley was induced to
strip and examine the oozy mud
by walking in the shallow and
diving in the deep. George was
a simple and vain soul and Foster
had said to him, “George, you’re
the only on© able here to do it.
I’d do it myself if I could.”
After an hour of it George was
blue and could only chatter.
They had to make a big fire to
thaw George out.
Then Foster said very mysteri-
ously to Harry, “Don’t want your
old man to hear me, lad, but are
there any ropes, halters, bridle-
reins, or leg-ropes missing?”
It took Harry a long time to
realise the horrible implications.
Mr. Wright was distressed.
He didn’t open school that
Friday, and came over to join in
the search. The caning he’d
given Jack yesterday weighed
heavily upon him.
The police came ; two mounted
men and a tracker. Mrs. Foran
was quite done-up now, and the
sight of the police made her
worse. She sat by the kitchen
fire and wept at times into her
apron. The older of these
mounted men “had a way” with
him. Quite an old man, he was,
and a sergeant, too, A kindly
old fellow, the more genuinely
sympathetic and philosophic per-
haps because his own boys had
turned out failures —there were
quite a few people who gained
consolation and resignation from
being invited to “look at Sergeant
Frost’s boys!”
The old sergeant spent a deal
of his searching in the kitchen.
His manner had that soothing
quality in it that would have been
described as “bedside” had he
been a doctor. He was full of
duckings and conventional
solace: “There, there! ” and
“Tut, tut, now,” “Not a bit of it,”
“No, no —not as bad as that.”
And he reminisced to many a
happy ending.
“There was a Stuart Ferguson
now —would you mind the Stuart
Fergusons, Mrs. Foran? One of
the girls later on married a
Thompson, one of the Black
Springs Thompsons . . .
Mrs. Foran hid or dried her
tears, and nodded from time to
time at the roundabout ramble
and counted the stripes on the
sergeant’s arm, and even met his
tired brown eyes, with a light in
them still, for all their tiredness.
And she almost forgot, too,
what a terrible thing it was to
have the police on the place, as
if her boy had done a murder, or
something. And the sergeant
rambled on; “Stuart Ferguson’s
son —Davy they called him, and
a fine boy . . ,
SATURDAY, Sunday, Mon-
. day they searched. They
dragged the big dam thoroughly,
for those odd corners of it that
George Farley might have
missed. They dragged Foster’s
dam, and all they found was a
rusty single-furrow plough that
had disappeared from Webb’s
place on New Year’s night a
few years before. But no Jack.
There was no place they didn’t
100k —likely or unlikely. They
looked under the hall from all
angles, and there was no Jack
in the semi-darkness of its nar-
row space between floor and
ground. The backdoors were
locked, but he couldn’t be in
there; and they didn’t bother
sending for the keys.
In town the bi-weekly paper
came out on Tuesday and fea-
tured the “mystery,” It men-
tioned that no “foul play” was
suspected. It mentioned, too,
that Sergeant Frost was “comb-
ing the hills and leaving no stone
unturned,”
Sydney papers gave more
casual reference, fitting the event
into the wider pattern. Sergeant
Frost became “that veteran
bushman,” inferring that a situa-
tion like this could not be in
more capable hands,
Mrs. O’Hare had one of her
startling dreams.
“As true as you’re standing
there I saw him, and the big
chestnut horse he was bestriding
stumbled in just a bit of rabbit-
burrow and threw him with full
force against a log. ‘Are you
hurt?’ says I —in me dream, of
course, that is—and he says
‘lt’s me back, Mrs. O’Hare, and
it’s broke.’ And then I woke
up,”
Mr. Foran suffered more than
anyone could know. Mr. Wright
was taking it hard, too. “Of
course, Mr. Foran, I did punish
him that day, but nothing out
of the way, mind you; and for
the boy’s own good, you under-
stand.” Mr. Wright had to
force himself to half-believe that
now, and that made him talk
about it. But “Jack was a good
lad, too —had the makings of a
good man in him.”
He spoke in the past tense.
TT came Thursday again—Tom
A Grice’s day with Sparks’s
lorry, though it was still too
early for his time of calling.
Mrs. O’Hare, in her village
cart, “just dropped in, Tess, to
be saying a word to your poor
mother; and a sorrow that’s
shared is made the bit lighter for
the sharing of it. It’s time that
does the healing, Tess, and God
is good—blessed be His Holy
name, Tess. And I was just half-
wondering now, Tess, and would
you mind changing a book for
me, and to pick up a bit of a
shawl that that Molly left in the
dressing-room after the last
dance. If her head wasn’t
screwed on now I do believe
that she’d forget that, too.”
Molly was her granddaughter
and lived with “Gran.”
“Oh, that’ll be all right, Mrs.
O’Hare.”
“Sure, and didn’t I know it
would. Ah, Tess, me girl—but
I won’t say it now. And per-
haps it’s not the right time to
be disturbing your poor mother,
breaking in upon her medita-
tions and prayers.”
“Do come in, Mrs. O’Hare.
Mother would love to see you.”
“Well, for the minute, then,
and no more.”
Later —a good many minutes
later—Tess went down in the
village cart with Mrs. O’Hare.
And that was how . . .
Tess ran up the track through
the bush, madly, like a thing
possessed, screaming. The search
was over at last.
■|VrO one could imagine why
Jack should be where they
found him. There was never a
clue to that. For what it was
worth, Mr. Foran and Mr.
Wright could console themselves
that the double-hiding would
seem to have not the remotest
connection with Jack’s being
jammed like that under the hall.
Mrs. O’Hare’s dream had
come true after all, with a few
odd particulars not altogether
coinciding; the “big chestnut
horse” was a dead loss.
Mr. Foran didn’t give any
more hidings—there was no one
to give them to. Nor did Mr.
Wright; not for a month at
least, till Wally Foster played
too hard on his softness.
No one else ever gathered
tobacco-crumbs from the hall
floor, though no one ever
dreamed it could be such
dangerous occupation.


Established Ibua in Reign of
George ///.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(. England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
r
J.A.P. ENGINES
2/S model, h.p. 4 stroke air-cooled,
£39/17/6.
4/3 model, 2-3 h.p. 4 stroke air-cooled,
£75.
J.A.P. spares stocked.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
df
dsf
Circular Charts for ail type*
of Recording instruments
lor any (lut of Hich(a«g
or Equlpm<n(
METER CHARTS • SpocJahy
jxciismX o'suluv4n%l&£
I QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE I
FOR BEAUTY
AND PERMANENCY
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are
renowned. Use them in your
new home or to cover existing
stained or faulty ceilings.
Call at our Baptist St., Redfern
Showrooms, Phone MX 2411 or
write Wunderlich Limited, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney for designs
and prices.
| dierlio&.
ETAL CEILINGS
Beautiful* permanent • modern
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Nijinsky, by C. W-
Beaumont; and Nijinsky, by Romola
Nijinsky.— 5681.
Widow (32), Vic., two small sons,
seeks farm-work. Can ride, handle
sheep and cattle, milk; experience of
poultry; was transport-driver with
A.W.A.S.; able to cook. If no suit-
able work available, would be glad
to hear of small property for rent.
—5682.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, perm-
anent position, wants full board and
lodging with small family, in private
home, in quiet suburb, own room
and washing required.—s6B3.
Information Sought
How can the roots of a privet
hedge be prevented from interfering
with the growth of flowers ?
Dig a trench about 18in. from the
base of the privet and chop side-
roots with an axe or mattock, then
put in a piece of stout galvanised-
iron. This will stop the root-growth.
In the trench stack stones or rubbish
to drain the flower-bed. Don’t plant
flowers close to the privet; its shade
can also cause stunted growth in the
flowers.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about
the New Guinea rivers ( 1 ) Sepik,
(2) Ramu, (3) Markham and {4}
Waria, especially as regards navigabil-
ity ?
(1) The Sepik is approximately 600
miles long, and at the entrance is
about one mile in width, and for
over 200 miles is nowhere less than
i-mile wide. A vessel drawing
13ft. can at average times proceed
up the river for 250 miles, and in
flood-times considerably farther, but
navigation is somewhat difficult as
the water is very dirty and mud-
banks abound. It is necessary al-
ways to hug the higher banks and
timber and keep in the track indi-
cated by driftwood, grass, etc. The
depth varies from three to 12
fathoms, and at average times the
channel is rarely less than four to
five fathoms deep for the first 240
miles. (2) The Ramu is next-largest,
and, like the Sepik, meanders through
a large swamp-plain for a great
distance. It flows into Broken Water
Bay, about 15 miles to the south of
the Sepik, and its length is approxi-
mately 360 miles. The river is
navigable by small flat-bottomed craft
for a considerable distance. It is
fast-flowing and difficult to navigate,
and the depth undergoes consider-
able and rapid changes. (3) The
Markham is third in size, rises near
the source of the Ramu, and flows
generally south-easterly into the
Huon Gulf. The river is shallow,
and owing to its rapid current can
be navigated only by small boats
and with difficulty. (4) The Waria
flows into the north of Hercules
Bay, near the Papuan border, and is
not navigable.
* * * *
(I) How does the variation of the
dew-point affect the possibility of
frost? (2) How high does the dew-
point have to be to make frost im-
possible ? (i) Does the dew-point
correspond with air temperature ?
(1) The dew-point varies with the
change in the pressure of the water-
vapor in the air. Consequently,
there is little change in the dew-
point unless there is a change in
wind direction. As a guide to pos-
sible occurrence of frost it is wise to
take observations as late as possible
in the afternoon. Consideration
should be given to any change in'the
wind circulation, and on the coast
the dew-point should be determined
after the sea-breeze, if any, has
dropped. (2) Frost does not occur
unless the temperature of the air
falls below 32 degrees Fahr. If the
dew-point is above 32 degrees, con-
densation takes place before freezing-
point is reached, and cooling is
checked by the release of latent
heat. Frost is unlikely if the dew-
point be above 32 degrees, but it
does not follow that frost will be
experienced if the dew-point is be-
low that point. (3) No, the dew-
point is merely that temperature to
which the air must be cooled to
cause condensation. The temperature
does not necessarily fall to that
point, and only does so under
favorable conditions for example,
on a calm, clear night in winter.
* * * M
A few details about the first zoo
in Australia ?
The first zoological gardens m
Australia were opened in 1854 at
Botany, near Sydney, by William
Beaumont, licensee of the Sir Joseph
Banks hotel. Contemporary illustra-
tions show that it included at least
elephants, emus, kangaroos and a
dingo. The animals were afterwards
removed by Beaumont’s successor,
Billing, to a hotel at Watson’s Bay.
When Billing died his widow offered
the collection to the N. S. Wales
Government, and when the offer was
refused, poisoned the animals.
Some facts on the International
Court of Justice?
The International Court of Justice
is the principal judicial organ of the
United Nations (U.N.0.), and func-
tions in accordance with U.N-O.’s
statute. This statute is based on the
statute of the Permanent Court of
International Justice, which the Inter-
national Court has superseded. All
members of U.N.O. are automati-
cally parties to the statute of the
International Court, which is, except
for judicial vacations, permanently in
session at The Hague. (It may sit
elsewhere when needed.) The court
is made up of 15 judges, who are
chosen without regard to nationality,
though no two sitting contempor-
aneously may be nationals of the
same State. The judges are elected
by the U.N. General Assembly and
Security Council, voting indepen-
dently. They serve for nine years and
are eligible for re-election. Only
States may be parties in cases before
the court, which, besides being open
to all States that are parties to its
statute, is open to other States on
conditions laid down by the Security
Council. The court exercises juris-
diction in such matters as —inter-
pretation of a treaty, questions of
international law, nature and extent
of reparations, etc. Each U.N. mem-
ber has undertaken to comply with
decisions of the court affecting it.
Decisions ,of the court are made by
a majority of the judges present
(quorum nine). The judgment must
state the reasons on which it is
based, and must include the names
of the judges taking part in the
decision. Any judge is entitled to
deliver a separate opinion.
* * * *
What are the formation-signs of
the main Australian Army com-
mands ? When where they adopted ?
The formation-sign was adopted in
the Australian Army in 1950 to re-
place the color-patch. The new
badges are in keeping with the style
of formation-badge in use by the
British Army; most are based on the
badges of the States incorporated in
the shield of the arms of Australia.
Here are some of the badges: (1)
Army Headquarters, the Imperial
crown, in red and yellow, surmounted
by a lion, superimposed on a shield
divided horizontally (top red, bottom
blue); the whole set on a yellow
square background. (2) Eastern Com-
mand, a scarlet waratah on a white
square. (3) Western Command, the
black swan of W.A. set on a yellow
ground. (4) Northern Command, the
Imperial crown superimposed on a
royal-blue Maltese cross, set on a
white square. (5) Central Command,
“ Look —no claws!”
a piping shrike in black and white,
with wings outstretched, set in a
yellow circle with a narrow black
border, on a light-brown square.
(6) Northern Territory Command, a
black buffalo’s head picked, out in
yellow and white, with white horns,
in a yellow circle on a green square
with a yellow border-strip. (7) 3rd
Military District (Victoria), con-
stellation of the Southern_ Cross,
white stars set on a blue shield sur-
mounted by a crown, on a light-blue
square. (8) Tasmania Command, a
lion rampant in red picked out in
brown on a gold shield set on a
light-brown square.
* * * *
(7) What steps were taken to send
back to "■England from Australia in
the early days those convicts whose
sentences had expired? (2) Was any
provision made to bring convicts’
families to Australia?
(1) No provision was made for the
repatriation of convicts when their
sentence expired; those who did re-
turn to Great Britain either paid
their way or worked their passage,
or, in the case of some women,
returned as companions or wives of
members of the ship’s crew. (2) No
provision was at first made to enable
a convict’s wife and family to follow
him to the colony; but in 1812 the
committee on transportation recom-
mended further facilities, and
Bathurst informed Macquarie that
provision would be made for women
recommended as industrious and of
good character to join their hus-
bands. An experimental group of
ten women was sent out at public
expense. The Governor was also
instructed to receive applications
from convicts or emancipists who
were in a position to support a
family, and a number of lists were
forwarded to England; but the
authorities were disinclined to incur
the risk of having to maintain these
persons in the colony, and the prac-
tice does not seem to have developed
to any great extent.
Brief Answers
H.J.M.; A Sketch of Residence
Among Aborigines of Northern
Queensland for Seventeen Years, by
J. Morrill, summarises his adven-
tures; Edmund Gregory’s Narrative
of James Murrells (Jemmy Morrill )
Seventeen Years’ Exile Among the
Wild Blacks of Northern Queens-
land, and a notice in Bonwick’s
William Buckley, the Wild White
Man of Victoria, should also be con-
sulted C.8.T.: The wirrah is a
fish of the family Serranidce, with
remarkable powers of intensifying
and subduing its color-markings. It
is generally spotted with blue on a
greenish-brown ground-color. It lives
among rocks, and is recorded from
both the eastern and western coasts
of Australia. Though reaching a
length of 18in., it is of little value as
an edible species, being tough and
coarse G.C.: The wombat is un-
able to climb trees. It is an active
burrower, and during the day it takes
shelter in excavations which it makes,
issuing forth after nightfall in search
of food, which consists of grass,
herbage and roots... .R.S. : The
Otaki (9575 tons), New Zealand
Shipping Co., while bound from
London to New Zealand, made a
most gallant fight in the mid-
Atlantic with the German raider
Moewe, whom she severely damaged.
before being sunk herself, March IU,
1917. Thirteen of her crew were
killed and wounded. The German
casualties were 15 H.8.C.:,
Mungo Park (1771-1806) was a Scot-
tish African explorer. He was a
surgeon in the mercantile marine;
ascended Gambia River, crossed
Senegal, followed course of the
Niger; captured by chief and
escaped alter four impnson-
ment; after 19 months in interior he
reached England in 1799 and wrote
Travels in the Interior of Africa; on
second expedition to the Niger he
reached Bamako but perished in
rapids during attack by natives..
K.W.: Bob Fitzsimmons, the pugi-
list, was born in Cornwall, England,
in 1862, and was reared in New
Zealand. He went to the United
States in 1890; won world’s middle-
weight championship from Jack
Dempsey at New Orleans in 1891;
won world’s heavyweight champion-
ship from James J. Corbett at Car-
son City in 1897; lost championship
to James J. Jeffries at Coney Island
in 1899 8.5.: Goroka is in the
B'ena Bena area and is the district
headquarters of the Central High-
lands district of the mainland of the
Territory of New Guinea....
W.N.T.: Clem Lack, author of The
Fields of Amaranth (1936), was born
at Bundaberg (Q.) in 1900. He is a
graduate of Queensland University
and a journalist by profession
A. Five Plays by Australians,
published by the Dramatists’ Club of
Australia, Melbourne, in 1936, in-
cluded “Moonshine,” by Marjorie
McLeod; “One Hundred Guineas,"
by Alexander Turner; “The Silver
Stars of Freedom,” by Florence
Spriggins; “Talk of the Devil,” by
John Ormiston Reid; and “The
Hidden Valley,” by Joan Harvey
B. Nicolas Chauvin was a
French soldier of Revolutionary- and
Napoleonic-a-rmies. After showing
great courage and being severely
wounded, he received from Napoleon
a sword, a red ribbon and a pension.
His enthusiasm for Napoleon and
his professions of militant patriotism
were so exaggerated that his com-
rades finally turned him to ridicule.
From his name chauvin and its
derivatives are said to come.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
H.McL.: Found it as inspiring as
cold porridge P.M.: You’re one
year behind time with that article.
W.B.C.: You’ll have to get out
of those well-worn ruts before you
can expect compliments E.T.:
We don’t like ghostly guardians of
“forgotten kingdoms of the dead.”
. ...8.0’C.: Prefer stories with loca-
tion nearer home... .R.W.: We
avoid people like Cousin Lizzie even
in print L.S.: Not in the market
for Texas cowboys, thank you
F. : That particular plot always
runs smoothly to the obvious end.
....R.K.D.: Quite the most maudlin
story of 1953 J.McK.: Sorry, but
the ending isn’t unusual. We turned
it down only a fortnight ag0....
T.W.M.: It’s an old stoiy, and you
don’t handle it with originality....
C.8.C.: Such a riot of glittering ad-
jectives defeats its own purpose
H.G.G.: You seem to enjoy sadness.
Four deaths are too many for one
short story R. 8.: A story should
be more than a string of questions
and answers N.P.H.: Dreary
maunderings... .G.C.8.: We get so
many of those honeyed nothings
C.T.P.: It had several readings, but
it’s a bit too didactic and long-
drawn-out F.T.F.: It’s an old
theme and an overworked one,
handled without freshness
W.C.A.: Don’t believe that is the
way you wanted to put that story on
paper G.R.W.: A promising
theme, but you make heavy going
of it F.G.V.: A bald account of
a happening doesn’t make a story.
S.B.P.: You say your story con-
tains facts and nothing else. Just
so H.W.C.: The spinster’s swear-
ing parrot is an old friend....
S.T.H.: Not in our line, but you
should be able to place it elsewhere.
A.McD.: Same pair of magsmen
trying to sell the same botanic gar-
dens’ sundial... .8.H.N.: We gather
you didn’t enjoy the trip....
G. They don’t even reach
children’s - page standard.,. W.F.:
No use invoking Cupid; in this
utilitarian age a man must be his
own Cupid... .H.J.: There’s some-
thing in all of them, but not enough
in any of them J.K.C.: We trust
the morbid mood passed when you
finished your story V.M.: Too
grim, too depressing and too long.
D.E.B.: The battered swagman
who blewed his cheque at the last
pub is much too old a friend....
W.E.R.: We couldn’t publish your
story without apologising to our
readers T.R.: An exhaustive
search failed to locate any humor
in it P.J.S.: You should do bet-
ter when you grow out of c>ver-
imaginativeness and conventional
ideas of romance... .8.M.: Heaven
forbid that anyone should hurl verse
like that at defenceless tennis-
players. .. .W.N.M.: If pulling peas
is half as bad as your verses on the
subject we should prefer picking
oakum A.K.: No use for the
doleful poet who stands on the cuff-
edge contemplating self-destruction,
R.A.S.: Even the five alternative
titles will not induce us to let Bill
and Maggie into our pages
P.A.A.: Have heard wives called that
many times... .S.C.: You place too
much emphasis on unimportant de-
tails... .J.H.: The story was almost
as hopeless as Jimmy’s future.


LYSAGHTS
4 '
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
pm
BBSS
w
m b
■
gi
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney
ECIFY "LYSAGHTS" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Wheats
“Ben C.”: On-the-farm ex-
periments to step up testing of
new varieties of wheat in N.S.W.
was urged by Gunnedah district
agronomist, J. O’Reilly. He said
that N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture hoped soon to release a
new winter wheat resistant to
stem- and leaf-rust.
Work by plant-breeders in
testing new wheat varieties was
inhibited by two major handi-
caps ; Limited manpower to con-
duct the large number of trials
needed before any new varieties
could be recommended for gen-
eral planting ; difficulty of test-
ing new varieties in soil and cli-
matic conditions of sufficiently
wide variation.
O’Reilly said the department
would co-operate with any
grower anxious to experiment
with new varieties. The value of
such trials was that wheat-men
could themselves determine how
suitable the new varieties would
be under the particular condi-
tions of their own crop areas.
Besides Festival, a compara-
tively new wheat released by the
department, another new vari-
ety from Queensland, Spica, and
two from South Australia, Pan-
ther and Sabre, were worth
small-scale trials by growers
next year. Winter Minflor, a
winter selection from a cross be-
tween Minister and Florence,
might open up new possibilities
for wheatgrowing in the N.S.W.
central slopes. If sown in Janu-
ary Winter Minflor would pro-
vide green feed for grazing dur-
ing autumn and winter, would
then start growing to head in
spring and yield a grain crop.
January sowings were possible
because winter wheat would not
begin to spindle until it had
passed through winter.
O’Reilly said Bencubbin was
the best available wheat for the
central slopes because of its re-
sistance to 'drought and general
suitability to the locality. It
would remain the most impor-
tant wheat in the region until a
variety was bred with improved
straw strength and milling qual-
ity, and which incorporated Ben-
cubbin’s other useful features.
Botulism
“Farmer Bill”: The microbe
Bacillus botulinus causes one of
the forms of forage-poisoning
for which there is no cure.
Animals are usually affected
during rainy or humid periods.
Horses fed on prepared fodder
are the main sufferers. Poultry
given mouldy grain or preserved
vegetables may develop it.
Cattle, sheep and pigs are occa-
sional sufferers.
There are two types—acute and
chronic, both non-infectious.
First symptoms are peculiar gait
and clumsiness in eating, fol-
lowed by paralysis of tongue and
throat. The limbs become un-
controllable, the horse goes
down and cannot rise. It may
take four days to die. The
chronic form is often termed
“sleepy-staggers.” The horse
appears dull and has difficulty in
lifting his feet from the ground.
Saliva drops from the mouth,
and the navel discharges. Small
amounts of moist food can be
swallowed but not dry rations.
Most animals take several weeks
to waste away. Few recover.
The microbe lives in soil and
water. It is usually carried into
the fodder with dust. Hay, grain
or chaff that has become mouldy,
or mouldy silage, are the most
dangerous breeding - grounds.
Tussocks of rank grass near
creek-beds or heaps of decom-
posing matter containing grain
may harbor it. As it is soluble
in water, the poison can be
washed from one part of a hay-
stack or silage-pit to another.
To forestall attacks, protect
haystacks and fodder from damp-
ness. Suspected foodstuffs, in-
cluding silage, and the ground
surrounding them, should be
burned.
Tomatoes in Rotation
“H.C.”: On the N.S.W. cen-
tral coast late tomatoes in rota-
tion with peas and beans will
produce through the winter.
Work a light dressing of super,
into the seed-bed about four
days before planting. Sow seed
thinly in rows 4in. to Sin. apart
and cover lightly with sandy
soil. If the weather is dry keep
damp hessian over the surface
till germination. After that the
seedlings need protection from
excessive heat and cold.
To obtain top yield let the
bushes develop two main stems,
and for fruit of the right mar-
keting size cluster-types need
heavier pruning than globes.
First side- or top-dressings
should be given only when most
of the fruit has formed in the
first bunch; the second when
the top settings have developed.
Furrow-irrigation is best. Wet
foliage is then avoided and
disease danger reduced. Over-
watering may affect quality.
Varieties which pollinate readily
and yield heavily during winter
1 months are Walker’s Recruit,
I Potentate, Break O’Day and
Bonny Best.
Shade in the Garden
“Delta”: In most home-vege-
table gardens there is a certain
amount of shade thrown by
buildings, fences, trees, etc.
We found that silver-beet and
parsnips show a greater toler-
ance to shade than any other
vegetables we have tested. At
present we have a fine stand of
silver-beet, planted last autumn,
under a citrus-tree. There is a
paling-fence right beside it on
the west, a garage wall sft.
away on the east and three tall
shady trees on the north. The
average amount of sunshine this
crop would receive throughout
the growing season would not
be more than an hour per day.
The beet now stands 30in,
high, and the leaves are up to
lOin. in width. The quality of
the beet is excellent. Another
plot of silver-beet, grown the
same season in full sunlight,
matured earlier, but the plants
were not so large.
Parsnips of good size and
quality have been grown in
shady situations, both in spring
and autumn, but carrots and
radishes must have full sun-
shine.
There may be other shade-
tolerant vegetables, but if so we
have not yet discovered them.
Lettuce likes plenty of sun in
winter, but is less likely to bolt
in the summer if partially shaded
by other plants.
Lucerne Seed
“Medicago”: Growers who
stick to the old method of cut-
ting, haying, stacking and thresh-
ing from the stack find the job
laborious and costly. A better
method is to cut and hay the
lucerne in the swathe and to pick
up with a moving header for
threshing. This exposes the crop
to the risk of weather damage
and to some shattering of the
seed during haying and picking
up.
To avoid the haying period,
some growers head the crop
direct, but the header does not
handle seed and bulky green
material well and much seed is
lost, or, with more trouble, has
to be put through again.
In America desiccating
chemicals are used to dry or to
defoliate the leaves before head-
ing, with a great saving of seed
and a cleaner, easier and more
timely harvest.
Phalaris Staggers
“R. Ney”; Aware that cobalt
is essential in the diet of
ruminants, C.5.1.R.0. workers
on Coonalpyn Downs (Ninety-
mile Desert of S. Aust.) proved
that dosing sheep with cobalt
overcomes phalaris-staggers—a
disease fairly common where
phalaris-tuberosa is overdomin-
ant in pastures on light soils.
In one experiment conducted
by H. J. Lee and R. E. Kuchel,
weekly drenches of cobalt-
chloride were given to half of
“Gustav used to be a general in his own country."
matched groups of sheep graz-
ing three different pastures, viz.,
pure lucerne, pure subterranean-
clover and a mixture of those
legumes and phalaris.
In May of the first year some
on the phalaris went down with
staggers. None of those grazing
either of the pure legume swards
showed any sign of the disease.
Furthermore, none of the 10
sheep grazing phalaris and re-
ceiving regular doses of cobalt-
chloride (7mg. of cobalt per
week) was affected, although 11
of the 15 untreated sheep graz-
ing with them showed more or
less severe symptoms.
Further experiments by Lee
and Kuchel in the following year
with larger numbers of sheep
confirmed that cobalt given to
sheep by mouth will prevent the
development of phalaris-
staggers.
Though it was established that
sheep may be completely pro-
tected by adequate supplements
of cobalt, the quantity of cobalt
which will counter the disease
in all circumstances has not
yet been fixed.
Ladino Clover
“I. Tally”: Ladino-clover is
a giant form of white-clover,
introduced to the U.S.A. from
Italy, and has now largely sup-
planted ordinary white-clover
throughout all the States in
which white-clover is an im-
portant species of permanent
pasture.
Up to now Ladino has
not shown outstanding qualities
under Australian conditions,
perhaps because it requires
fertile soils for good production.
Farmers here regard pasture
largely as the stuff to allow to
S r °w on or to put on the
poorest land on the farm,
while they use the best land for
exhaustive cropping until a spell
in pasture is necessary to re-
build its run-down fertility. Not
even ordinary white-clover, and
much less Ladino, will do well
under these conditions, even in
suitable regions.
White-clover, like sub.-clover,
consists of a number of different
types, fixed under long-term geo-
graphic determination, based
largely on the maturing period.
So far little has been done in
Australia to isolate such types,
except for the Victorian Late
Irrigation strain, with which
Ladino-clover does not compare
well in southern irrigation
regions.
In the Pacific-coast regions of
U.S.A., with climatic conditions
closest in similarity to those of
Australia, it is now being found
that the certified New Zealand
strain of white-clover is superior
to Ladino.
A Kero.-tin Full
“C.S.”; N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture issues the follow-
ing table to show the weight in
pounds of feed in a full 4gal.
kero.-tin:
Wheat (whole) ......30
Wheat-meal ........... 22
Barley ...... r. ....... 25.
Barley-meal ......... 20
Maize 28
Maize-meal .. . 25
Grain sorghum 30
Grain sorghum-meal . 25
Oats .......... 20
Crushed oats 13
Pollard ............. 18
Meat-meal .......... 30
Blood-meal ........ 35
Lucerne-mea1........ 10
Linseed-meal ......... 30
Peanut-meal ..,... 25
Weeds in Cotton
“Bondy”: From a pre-war
area of 50,000 acres in Queens-
land cotton-growing declined to
about 3000 acres in 1949 because
it could not stand high labor
costs and relatively low prices.
In addition, cost of weed-
control adds materially to cost
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
Continued absence of sunspots in December made
conditions erratic for forecasting on the cyclical system.
However, the cyclical chart suggests that rains should set
in over the tropics and along the eastern coast in January,
though the wet season seems likely to begin lightly, with
some heavier falls round Cairns and from about Bunda-
berg to Port Macquarie and including the Darling Downs
and New England. In the far west and along the Darling
and Murray only light rains are likely.


Reprinted from the SYDNEY MORNING HERALD August 21, 1953.
SHEEP LOSS
REDUCED
Vitamin ‘A’ Dose
Experiments
By V. G. COLE, B.Y.Sc., Grazcos Veterinary Surgeon
The discovery by the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation that sheep dosed with vitamin A have
a better chance of survival during periods of extended drought
is one of the most important in Australia’s pastoral industry.
In the lean years when green grass is unavailable for
months on end the loss of weaners and of lambs at birth or soon
after runs into hundreds of thousands in New South Wales
and over the Commonwealth into millions.
GREEN FEED DEFICIENCY
Graziers generally accept the
huge losses as an unfortunate out-
come of drought and, once a
drought breaks, set about rebuild-
ing their flocks.
But research by the C.5.1.R.0.
has shown that vitamin A admin-
istered as a drench to weaners and
lambing ewes will reduce losses
considerably.
Already widespread interest is
being taken in the drought feeding
work of the C.5.1.R.0. and it is
important that graziers should
appreciate the results are still in
the semi-experimental stage.
But as seasonal conditions are
turning dry in many parts of (he
State an explanation of how vita-
min A deficiency occurs will give
a better understanding of when and
how the results of the C.5.1.R.0.
research can be applied.
SAME THING
For a long time, vitamin A
deficiency has been known to occur
among poultry, where the disease
produced is described simply as
due to green feed deficiency.
Vitamin A and green feed de-
ficiency are the same thing.
Under ordinary grazing con-
ditions, green feed is the natural
source of vitamin A but as the
grass dries off so the vitamin A
content declines. Under drought
conditions it falls off altogether.
The C.5.1.R.0. work has shown
that the deficiency can be made
good by giving large doses of
vitamin A, which animals are cap-
able of storing in their livers and
using slowly over a long period.
The experiments mainly con-
cerned ewes in lamb and weaners.
The ewes were fed a ration of cereal
chaff and wheat from mating on-
wards and, in the first year, they
lambed satisfactorily. But when
kept on this diet and mated a
second time most of their lambs
were either bom dead or died
within a day or so. Some of the
ewes were given large doses of
vitamin A at intervals and those
which were given this treatment
gave birth to normal lambs, all of
which survived.
FEWER DEATHS
In the case of the weaners the
results were more spectacular.
Some 250 weaners were fed on
cereal chaff and wheat plus lime-
stone. They were divided into two
groups, one of which was given a
single large dose of 500,000 inter-
national units of vitamin A, while
the other group was given no
treatment.
After seven months, 62 of the
untreated weaners had died, com-
pared with 17 of those which
received the vitamin A supplement.
During the last three months of
the trial the results were particu-
larly striking, since only four of
the treated weaners died compared
with 42 of the untreated ones.
The cost of the drench, which is
equal to about 3oz. of vitamin A
emulsion, is about 1/-.
HAY AN ALTERNATIVE
The obvious question is whether
vitamin A deficiency can be over-
come in any other way except by
dosing with vitamin A supplements.
The only foodstuffs, besides
green grass, which are rich sources
of vitamin A are carrots, green
lucerne or clover hay, and yellow
maize. Milk is also a rich source of
vitamin A, but it is hardly likely
to be used for drought feeding.
Thus, if yellow corn and lucerne
hay are fed either together or
separately, vitamin A deficiency
may not occur. In the case of
lucerne hay, whether it occurs or
not will depend to a large extent on
the quantity fed and the quality of
the hay. Poor quality hay contains
little vitamin A.
In drought time, however, sup-
plies of lucerne hay and com are
never adequate, and the main
foodstuffs used are wheat, oats,
barley, grain sorghum, and cereal
hay, all of which are very vitamin A
deficient.
Putting considerations of
drought feeding aside for a moment
it might be well to explain that
vitamin A deficiency also occurs
whenever dry feed conditions pre-
vail and often when stud animals
are being hand-fed, but the symp-
toms produced are not significant
enough to bring them before the
notice of livestock breeders.
For example, it was proved
several years ago that the fertility
of rams is lowered when seasonal
conditions are dry and that cattle
become shy breeders, leading to
infertility among herds.
Use of vitamin A supplements
under these conditions has a
definite place in the future.
Other so-called sub-clinical
effects of vitamin A deficiency are
swelling of the brisket of cattle
which are being fattened by hand-
feeding, as well as scours, pneu-
monia, and blindness among calves.
The eyesight of racehorses will
be affected if they are fed for long
on vitamin A deficient rations, as
they frequently are, but, most
important of all, their hooves
show uneven and poor growth of
horn.
These effects of vitamin A de-
ficiency are comparatively un-
important, however, because it is
simple enough to correct them
either by making sure that the diet
contains foodstuffs rich in vitamin
A, such as lucerne hay, or by
dosing at intervals with vitamin A
supplements. The cost of doing
this is unimportant.
WISE DOSING
This is not so in drought time.
First, it is not possible to pick and
choose foodstuffs and, second, the
cost of dosing with vitamin A
supplements could add up to a
substantial amount.
Nevertheless, if present seasonal
conditions continue and a drought
of several months’ duration looms
ahead of us. woolgrowers should
seek advice about dosing ewes in
lamb and weaners with vitamin A
mixtures since the results which
have been obtained indicate that
this will prevent losses of both new-
born lambs and young sheep.
If dosing is carried out wisely it
could be the means of saving many
thousands of lambs and weaners.
Past drought experiences have
shown that these are the most
difficult of all to pull through a
drought and we now know that
this is due, in no small measure,
to vitamin A deficiency.
VITAMIN ‘A’
CAN BE GIVEN EASILY TO SHEEP IN
CORRECT DOSES BY DRENCHING WITH -
The findings of the above experiment clearly show that adequate
vitamin A supply is essential for lambs and weaners if high losses are
to be avoided. Vitamin A also greatly influences lambing percentages,
fertility in rams and the health of new-born lambs when breeding
ewes have suffered prolonged deficiency. The natural source of
vitamin A is green feed and if always available in abundance there
would be no fear of vitamin A deficiency. But dry pastures, so
prevalent in Australia, have little or no vitamin A value and a
deficiency of this vitamin then occurs with serious results. The value
of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ to sheep owners during dry feed
periods can be readily appreciated—High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’
supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the best pastures.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral
House or usual station supplier. Write for brochure ( £ )
HIGH POTENCY
a
i
a
UADK
TRADE
‘VETEMUL’ is Australia’s original veterinary emulsion supplying
vitamin A and is used by the largest commercial poultry farmers ana
livestock owners. ‘VETEMUL’ has now been introduced in high
potency form specially designed for use by sheep owners. Because
it is so highly concentrated, each dose of High-Potency VETEM UL
supplies total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. The need tor
only periodical instead of frequent dosing and the fact that it may be
given easily by drench makes High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ a most
convenient form of vitamin A dosing. One gallon of High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only l/3d. each for sheep
and lOd. each for lambs.
WARRANTY : High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is sold with a warranty
that vitamin potencies are as stated on the label.
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., Agricultural and Veterinary Division, 37
Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
VB/53
of production. The hormone
weedicides are not satisfactory
for use in cotton, not only be-
cause they injure the crop, but
also because they do not control
grass-weeds and some difficult
broad-leaved weeds,
Queensland cotton - growers
are watching results obtained re-
cently with a new weedicide.
C.M.U., which has checked
young annual summer grasses
and other weeds with little or no
injury to the cotton.
The McEvoys
“W. Bungle”: John McEvoy,
a 12-year-old Coonabarabran
boy, tractor-ploughed and com-
bined 70 acres of wheat on his
own on his father’s 1700-acre
wheatfarm. The farm, called
Rosewood, near Ulamambri,
was judged in the central-slopes
division of the R.A.S. wheat
championships.
The boy’s single - handed
ploughing and harvesting feat
was done during weekends and
school holidays. He has a work-
ing knowledge of all parts and
can do running repairs. He
goes this year to the Marist
Brothers’ agricultural college at
Campbelltown.
J. McEvoy, the father, came
to Australia in 1928. He told an
R.A.S. man that “Australia is
the best country in the world.”
His crop of Bencubbin won the
local competition. McEvoy
owns 1700 acres, and has a com-
fortable, attractive homestead
for himself, wife and three
children.
The competition crop was
growing on chocolate basaltic
loam, which had yielded six
crops since its first cultivation
10 years ago. The paddock was
fallowed in 1952, disk-ploughed
in January, 1953, ploughed again
in February and March and
sown on May 10, at 481 b. of seed
and 401 b. of super, an acre.
McEvoy grew up on a 30-acre
farm in King’s County, Ireland,
40 miles south of Dublin.
Sheep-dog Trials
“Kelp”: First sheep-dog trials
at a Sydney Royal Show since
1940 will be a main night feature
at this year’s show, which begins
on April 9. There will be two
contests, one a Commonwealth
challenge trial, on six nights
during the Show. Prize-money
is £3OO, with cups and trophies
added for both competitions.
The R.A.S. offers £2OO prize-
money for the Commonwealth
challenge trial for one dog and
£lOO for a trial by two dogs.
Special rules have been pre-
pared, providing a thorough test
of skill by both the dogs and the
owners. Disqualification will be
the penalty if a dog bites the
sheep it is mustering, and the
dog’s owner will be held respons-
ible for compensation for
damage to stock.
Herd Book
“C. Punch”; A 275-page
illustrated herd-book, the 16th
issued since 1919, has been pub-
lished by the Aberdeen-Angus
Society of Australia. It contains
details of 470 bulls and 1633
cows registered since publication
of Vol XV two years ago. The
society was founded in 1919.
Up to June 30, when registra-
tions for the herd-book closed,
there were 3595 Aberdeen-Angus
bulls and 30,959 cows registered
in Australia. Volume I of the
society’s herd - book, which
appeared in 1922, contained
fewer than 300 registrations, the
majority imported cattle, with
which studs throughout the
Commonwealth were founded.
At June 30 this year the
society had 265 members, 30
associate members and three
honorary life-members.
Pig-weed
“Portulaca”; 2,4-D is gener-
ally effective against broad-
leaved annual weeds, because
they retain sufficient poison spray
on the leaves to bring about the
absorption of a lethal dose.
Cereals and grasses mostly have
smooth, narrow, vertically-in-
clined leaves which shed moisture
quickly. This accounts for the
selective action of hormone
sprays.
Pig-weed or purslane is a
broad-leafed annual with smooth
shiny-surfaced leaves which do
not allow any retention of
moisture, and so escapes the
action of the poison. So one
has to turn to an insecticide to
kill pig-weed. Chlordane has
done it in America.
Stock Shelterbelt
“Breck”; Discard the idea of
a belt of trees forming one
straight line, or of running a
belt along a fence. Instead,
choose a site well out in the pad-
dock and plan the shape of the
belt to form a right-angled tri-
angle, or the letter T. Either de-
sign will give stock protection
on two sides and the animals will
seek the comers for additional
warmth in winter
Even better is a belt designed
to form a cross. This will shelter
from winds from any direction.
If tali-branching trees are chosen
for the bisecting area at the
centre of the cross the stock will
get good shade in summer.
No shelter belt should be less
than three or four rows deep.
And they are useless unless the
outside row of trees on the wind-
ward side consists of a small
species, thick-foliaged, to cut off
ground draught.
Hints for the Farm
“A.P.”: A quart-measure of
salt weighs 31b., of bonemeal
21b. and of ground-limestone
41b.
“Big Billy”: Newly-estab-
lished rhubarb-plants should not
be cut during the first year and
only lightly the second. Give
them plenty of water. Later give
liquid manure, worked into the
soil, after each cutting.
“C.A.A.”: If over-mature
material is made into silage it
cannot be compressed, and
overheating causes a loss in
food-value. It is far better to
make hay out of late-cut pas-
ture than turn it into mouldy
silage. The same applies, but
even more so, to hollow-
stemmed plants such- as oats.
Good silage should be a yel-
lowish light brown slightly
tinged with green, and with a
sharp, sweet odor. A darker hue
indicates overheating.
“Farmer Bill”: To make cob-
bler’s-wax heat 11b. of pitch
with 4oz. of resin until
thoroughly liquefied and mixed ;
pour into cold water and stir.
This is for summer use. If it
proves too hard and brittle in
cold weather make a second mix-
ture of 11b. of pitch, 3oz. of
resin and 3oz. of mutton-fat.
When the thread is too hard and
sticky to run well, smear the
fingers with raw beef or mutton-
fat and run the thread between
them.
“Hortus”: Fresh poultry-
manure, analysed, contains 85
per cent, of moisture, 1 p.c. of
nitrogen, 0.8 p.c. phosphoric-
acid and 0.5 p.c. potash. Dry, it
contains 3 p.c. nitrogen, 2 p.c.
phosphoric-acid and 1.5 p.c.
potash, plus humus. So keep it
dry. Don’t leave it out in the
open in heaps, for rain heats it
and the heating liberates the
nitrogen content in the form of
ammonia-gas.
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.O., D.D.T., N.A.T.O.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the B.W.T.C.?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


THE OTHE FELLOW'S MINĐ
Rain
Rain is the most maligned element of
nature. At most times there are people
praying for it to come, or to go away,
to stay, or to stay away. If it does come
to those who exhort it to do so it is
either too late or too early, or too heavy
or too light. Rarely is anyone satisfied
with it.
At harvest-time the farmer abominates
it, while the grazier, if he has the money,
entices it by sprinkling (at great cost)
dry-ice on likely-looking clouds. This
situation is reversed at shearing-time,
again at ploughing-time, and again at
crop-sowing. There are times when
mixed-farmers want rain to fall on their
land without wetting their sheep.
An overwhelming proportion of the
population never wants rain. I refer,
in particular, to Sydney’s tramguards,
policemen on traffic-duty, women with
washing on the line or with new hats,
girls with crepe frocks, any who have
holes in their shoes, hikers, campers,
holiday - makers, street - photographers,
brides, gravediggers, bathing beauties,
campaigning politicians and courting
couples. That group would also include
owners of new cars or newly-polished
ones, owners of convertibles which do not
convert, bricklayers, sewerage-workers,
people watching outdoor sports or those
playing them. That includes footballers,
cricketers, golfers, tennis - players,
croquet enthusiasts, non-drinkers at
bowling - clubs and both fully - fledged
and embryo nudists.
There are exceptions, of course, but
they are in the minority—taxi-drivers,
doctors, meteorologists, small boys, the
Sydney Water Board, little girls with new
red rubber Wellington-boots and the
makers of them. The man-on-the-land
wants rain but only at certain defined times,
of a specific force, in a stipulated quan-
tity and of a miraculous non-mud-making
variety.
The conclusion is paradoxical: al-
though none of us could exist for long
without rain, many are impervious to it,
most dislike it, and the few who appre-
ciate it do so for generally irrelevant
reasons. —J. Saunders (N.S.W.).
The Youngsters
Psychologists, psychiatrists and child-
guidance and -welfare experts are almost
unanimous in condemning parents as
mainly responsible for juvenile delin-
quency. Lack of discipline in the home,
they say, breeds dishonesty, thuggery and
every crime in the calendar.
Obviously, few of these experts are
parents themselves. Lives there a parent
who, without inhuman and exhausting
strictness, successfully disciplines his or
her own progeny? The lucky few are
“Have a bottle of champagne, old boy. It's very soothing
blessed with children lacking the deviltry
inherent in most. Yet it is a fact that the
disobedient and unruly will obey, meekly
and promptly, a teacher in kindergarten
or school where the discipline is firm with-
out harshness. The trouble is that many
brilliant teachers are quite lacking in
that indefinable quality by which some,
without apparent effort, hold a class of 50
or so potential wreckers of property and
disturbers of the peace to rapt and re-
spectful attention.
Less psychology, psychiatry, child-
guidance and other well-meaning jiggery-
pokery would seem to be indicated,
while more training of teachers in the
handling of children would do much to
reduce juvenile delinquency. Leave
parents to provide love, food, clothing
and consolation ; stop picking on them ;
and let the schools provide the discipline
and the learning. Isn’t that what schools
are for? — Narumee (Vic.).
Lawrence Hargrave
The really great contribution of Aus-
tralian flying pioneer Lawrence Har-
grave (B. 16/12/’53) was the discovery
that a curved wing-surface gave more
than twice the lift of a flat one. This set
subsequent aircraft-designers, the Wright
brothers included, on the road to success.
The true aerofoil wing-section evolved
from his discovery.
All of Hargrave’s models did not go
to Germany. In Sydney’s Museum of
Applied Arts and Sciences, then known as
the Technological Museum, I was shown
the original cellular-kite model, built of
thin sheets of Californian redwood, with
which he proved the lift of the curved
surface. There were also faithful copies
of his successful model-planes, including
the one driven by compressed-air through
his ingenious three-cylinder rotary-
engine.
In 1934 I tried without success to have
established an enduring memorial to Har-
grave. In 1949 I tried again, and E. E.
Anthoney, M.L.C., of Adelaide, passed
the word to the Minister for Air. As a
result the University of Sydney named
their Chair of Aeronautical Engineering
in honor of Hargrave.
While it is good that a pioneer’s name
has been thus honored by a university,
it isn’t really enough. A further memorial
to him in the form of bronze plaques on
the walls of the booking-offices’ of all
Australian airlines would be a fitting
reminder that the man known in his day
as “the mad old kite-flyer” was really one
of the notable pioneers in man’s conquest
of the air.— H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Scraps of Paper
The Constitution adopted by the French
at the Revolution (B. 25/11 / ’53) was
purely a paper one. It was full of high-
sounding sentiments and impressive safe-
guards of liberty and property, but they
had no reality. For the whole time it
functioned there was political chaos. Real
power was in the hands of certain politi-
cal clubs, which maintained armed mobs ;
these were directed against any indi-
viduals or sections of the community dis-
liked by their bosses.
In consequence there was neither
liberty of person nor security for
property. Many people were driven out
of the country and their property de-
clared forfeit to the State because they
had left. Others who stayed were mur-
dered. There was no freedom of religion
until Napoleon established his authority.
Trade-unions were also prohibited, and
the law provided that any workmen who
formed a combination to raise then wages
were liable to the death penalty.
The Constitution itself had some
serious defects as an instrument of gov-
ernment. The respective functions of
executive and legislature were ill-defined,
and neither had authority over the de-
partmental directories or the munici-
palities. These could defy either at will.
None of the later Constitutions of the
Revolutionary period gave the country
genuine constitutional government. Real
power was in the hands first of the Jaco-
bin-controlled “Committee of Public
Safety,” which ruled by terrorism based
on armed mobs, then of the autocratic
Directory, backed by the Army, and
finally of the dictator, Napoleon.
The French Revolutionary Constitu-
tions were not the only ones to read
impressively. The republics of Latin
America commonly adopt Constitutions
“Very run-down, Mrs. Jones."
based on that of the U.S.A. They have,
however, seldom had validity, military
dictatorship having been the common
form of government.
A modern example was provided by
the second Spanish Republic in 1931. Its
Constitution had provisions for security
of property, freedom of opinion and of
the Press, protection of the citizen from
arbitrary imprisonment, and so forth.
Yet when it suited the Government of the
day those provisions were flouted as
blatantly as by any acknowledged totali-
tarian regime.— Cunedda (N.S.W.)
The Trans.
The late King O’Malley gave this
country a lot of things, but he did not,
as a Sydney newspaper claimed, “in-
itiate” the transcontinental railway from
Adelaide to Perth. He did, as Minister
for Home Affairs in the Fisher Govern-
ment, introduce the bill for the Kal-
goorlie-Port Augusta railway on Sep-
tember 20, 1911 ; but credit for getting
the railway'started belongs to “Big John”
Forrest.
Forrest, as leader of the Westralian
Government, was pushing the railway
from Northam to Coolgardie in 1892 —
before O’Malley arrived from America.
In September, 1896, the line was through
to Kalgoorlie, and from that day Forrest
pressed for a railway across the Nullar-
bor to Port Augusta. His argument was
that Westralia would always feel isolated
until it had a land line of communica-
tion with the Eastern States.
The trans. was built in five years, and
opened on October 22, 1917. The latest
official booklet on the subject credits
Forrest with getting the line built, and a
stop on the line named Forrest perpetu-
ates his association with it. — Geo.
Beesley (N.S.W.).
First to Fly in Australia?
From The Bulletin of March 24,
1910: “Cultured Adelaide has gone
in seriously for air flying, and last
Thursday F. C. Custance, in his Bleriot
monoplane, struck a height record (for
Australia) of about 50ft. and covered
three miles of country in five minutes 25
seconds. Also, a little later, the mono-
plane struck the earth more or less
violently, but Custance took the pre-
caution to alight on his head, so no harm
was done to him, whilst the machine was
only slightly damaged.
“Next day Houdini tore himself away
from the chains and bolts and bars by
which he earns his handsome income, and
packed himself into a Voisin biplane,
which, under the auspices of its former
proprietors, had sampled the air to the
extent of one hour 20 min,
“Houdini was not so successful with the
biplane as he is with padlocks. Try as
he might, he couldn’t get out of the
machine, which made three successful
flights, the longest being 3£min. Custance
and Houdini each claims to be the first
serious flying man in Australia, and this
paper, not desirous of being visited by an
indignant monoplane or biplane in its
upper story, leaves it at that.”
Adelaide “Register” of March 14, 1910,
described the flight and stated that F. H.
Jones was the owner of the machine, and
that it was flown by Fred Custance.
Melbourne “Argus,” in its weekend
magazine of November 20, 1943, published
an article and many photographs claiming
that the owner, F. H. Jones, was the first
to fly the machine. This they corrected
in a small paragraph on Decemer 18,
1943, giving the facts as related by the
widow of Fred Custance.
“Sydney Morning Herald” said “The
initial success of the experimenter with a
Bleriot monoplane at Bolivar (S.A.) marks
the entry of Australia into the world of
flight.”
Actually, the first to get off the ground
was Carl Wittber, an apprentice to a motor
firm, Eyes and Crowle, Ltd. He went with
Custance to the farm at Bolivar, and,
while trying the controls, taxied a short
distance and found he had risen a few
feet from the ground. The reason why
Custance came down in a hurry was that
he had mastered the technique of rising
and flying, but not of landing. The rest
of the story is recorded in the R.G.S.
(S.A. branch) library manuscripts. Wittber
is still active. He built the first rotary
engine, installed it in a plane built by him-
self, and was stopped from doing anything
further by the military authorities, evi-
dently for what we now call “security
reasons.” — Chas C. Deland (S.A.).
Felton Bequest
With their Christmas distribution the
trustees of the Felton Bequest, one of
the world’s important art benefactions,
have brought the total of their spendings
on art and charitable institutions into the
vicinity of £2,000,000. The sum spent
on artistic objects is about a million.
Felton prescribed that only works cal-
culated to elevate public taste should be
bought, and he left it to the experts.
How have they carried out the chemist’s
prescription over the last few years?
Nobody would deny that the Rem-
brandt portrait, the El Greco, the Con-
stable, the Turner and half a dozen works
by pastmasters fulfil it. One or two other
pictures by Australian artists could also
be included —the Meldrum landscape
and Dobell’s “The Cypriote,” for in-
stance. These are all artists who give
evidence in their pictures that they are
striving after something. Among the
older men, Streeton, Roberts, John Long-
staff and even Bernard Hall, so despised
by the moderns, also show evidence of
striving after something, even though
they may not have succeeded, and cer-
tainly haven’t succeeded as well as Rem-
brandt.
Tens of thousands of pounds, however,
have been spent on so-called “contem-
porary” painters, and space for hun-
dreds of examples of their work has been
found on the walls of the National Gal-
lery by the simple expedient of relegating
the works of better artists to the vaults.
Most of this “contemporary” stuff is
rubbish, and would not be worth com-
ment but for the fact that the Felton Be-
quest, on the evidence of last year, will
spend thousands on similar ephemera
this year.—M. G. S. (Vic.).


Garages and Service
The competition between “one-brand”
petrol-stations has - resulted in a new kind
of service, and attendants now almost fall
over themselves in their anxiety to wipe
windscreens, inflate tyres, remove grease-
stains and perform other small, free ser-
vices along with the selling of petrol.
I wish some similar improvement could
be effected in the matter of mechanical
service to cars. Here are a few case-
histories :
I took my car, a small English model,
to six different garages, getting quotes
for decarbonising and valve-lapping. The
quotes varied from £6 10s, to £l2 10s. I
can do the job myself, and do it well, in
half a day.
Earlier, I put the same car into a large
organisation’s garage for decarbonising,
brake-lining and a small spot of panel-
beating at the rear. The bill was £23 10s.,
and I thought it almost reasonable until
a few hours later. Then I found (1) the
circlip holding the brake-shoes on the
left rear-wheel had not been properly
secured, so that it came off, worked up
between the brake-lining and the drum
and caused the wheel to run hot; (2) the
wires to the stop-light had been crossed,
so that any touch on the brake-pedal blew
the fuse; and (3) three of the head-nuts
under the generator still retained their
glossy black enamel and had hot been
touched by a spanner—the engine had
either not been decarbonised at all, or
had simply been given a blast of air
through the plug-holes.
On another occasion 1 sought quotes
for a little panel-beating on a front mud-
guard. The highest was £l9 10s., the
lowest £B. I took the lowest and got a
good job for the money.
A friend of mine put his car in for
attention and made the awful mistake
of having a row with the garage-owner
while the car was still there. He got his
car back, but it didn’t run for long.
There’s a right way and a wrong way of
putting the pistons back. His were put
back the wrong way. He also found that
the petrol-filter in his carburettor had
been cleaned by the simple expedient of
poking a couple of nail-holes in it.
One or two more examples: 11s. 6d.
to grease eight nipples on the front-end
of a Riley—a four-minute job; 4s. 6d. to
put four drops of oil on the brake-lever
of a Renault. The list could be almost
endless, but it is characterised by two
things: thumping high charges and a com-
plete lack of uniformity about any of
them.
The average car-owner gives his car
petrol, oil, water and routine maintenance
and expects it to run. The moment it
breaks down he is at the mercy of garages
and rarely has the mechanical knowledge
to know whether they have served him
well or ill. Too many of them rush the
work, and too many of them leave it to
apprentices without proper supervision
of skilled mechanics. The result is that
more and more car-owners are finding
small, backyard mechanics who depend
for their livelihood on doing two or three
cars a week and doing them well. The
garages haven’t missed the business yet,
but, unless they look to their ways and
service, they will. — Big End (N.S.W.).
Oil and Politics
During the Gwydir by-election cam-
paign Senator McKenna told electors
that “the Menzies-Fadden Government s
sell-out in the vital field of oil was the
greatest betrayal of Australian inter-
ests in the last 50 years.”
The Senator went on to suggest that
the decision of Anglo-Iranian to build
a £40,000,000 refinery in W.A. was not
an accidental decision on the part of the
directors; and that the Caltex project
at Kurnell wasn’t just a wild stab in the
dark. He also asked who really believed
that these projects were built to refine
the crude product shipped from abroad
when the companies had a good idea
that oil was present in this country.
I’ve always known from Hollywood
that oilmen are spectacular types, but
until I read Cecil B. de McKenna I had
no idea they would spend millions on
refineries in the hope that oil might be
discovered near them. — Tidak Makan
(N.S.W.).
Economic Stability
There is plenty of evidence of the
soundness of the present Australian
economic set-up, and that could not have
been said of it in the early post-war
years, when the Chifley Socialists were
“Remember when WE used to eat the dogs'-meat?”
refusing to “crucify the workers” and,
in the process, were allowing inflation
to run riot. Things are different now.
An economic depression appears to be
an impossibility.
Here are one or two random proofs
of our stability. The Commonwealth
Bank in its last annual report said that
the Australian economy has improved
steadily since the end of 1952. The
president of the Bank of N. S. Wales
also recently stressed that there was now
in Australia “no marked tendency
towards either inflation or deflation.”
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, lately tipped that Australia was
“on the threshold of a tremendous ad-
vance in a new Elizabethan age,” and
added that he expected Australia to go
a long way forward in the next 25
years. A shaky economy would not
induce such visions of progress. x
The success of the last Commonwealth
loan is another pointer to the faith of
its supporters in our economic and
financial steadiness. Sir Arthur Fadden
said the loan in turn would help greatly
to preserve this steadiness.
Plenty of other instances can be given.
Overseas capital is being increasingly
attracted here to assist in developmental
projects, of which the Anglo-Iranian
establishment of a large oil-refinery at
Kwinana (W.A.) is but one. This extra
capital, which would not have come here
in unsettled economic weather, will help
to preserve a stable climate.
There can also be cited the recent
judgment by the Federal Arbitration
Court abolishing “quarterly adjust-
ments.” The court pointed out that it
had been convinced of the stability of
the economy by the arguments put for-
ward for the trade-unions.
So both capital and labor agree on
this matter. And, though the “Labor”
party wouldn’t agree here, this excellent
position is undoubtedly due to the
financial and economic measures taken
by the Menzies-Fadden Government.
—Marcs (W.A.).
The Landless Soldiers
It says little for the sense of responsi-
sibility of the three major State Govern-
ments that soldier-settlement should be
one of the first victims of their compul-
sory reduction of spending. If it comes
to that, people generally have shown as
little concern, though they are as much
bound by the promises made to fighting
men during the war as are their Govern-
ments.
The whole scheme, to which States and
Commonwealth were parties, is stagger-
ing to a finish in the three major States
which insisted on acting as “principals,”
only letting the Commonwealth contri-
bute money, while in the “agent” States,
where the Commonwealth finds the
money, the land, and has a say in the
policy, the scheme makes progress—slow
though it be.
Thus, with almost a decade of the
post-war period over, soldier-settlement
has failed in eastern Australia, not only
because the scheme is closing up, but
also because of the comparatively few
soldiers who have been settled on land
in the time. This, when all seven Gov-
ernments talk stridently about the need
for more food-production, more acres
under cultivation, more people living out-
side the cities.
At every ceremony of remembrance
of the two wars the words “Age shall
not weary them, nor the years condemn”
are solemnly quoted. In another sense,
age is wearying the majority of those
who believed they could get a bit of the
land they fought for, the years do con-
demn both their chances of getting it and,
even more so, of living long enough to
benefit if ever they do.
Meantime, State politicians blithely
blame Federal “financial tyranny” for
the shocking state of affairs, and Federal
politicians stand pat on the offer to take
the defaulting States in as agents. It
will be interesting to see what happens
after next year’s Federal election, for it
is already manifest that the three
“Labor”-run States mean to use their
own failure in soldier-settlement as a
club to bash the non-Labor Federal Gov-
ernment.
There is nothing consoling to the land-
less soldiers in the reflection that they,
like so many other things of national
importance, have become political shuttle-
cocks. Nevertheless, that is the truth.
And, \to the people’s shame, it hardly
rouses a ripple of public feeling.—A. D.
(Q.).
This Tax Should Be Cut
Minister for National Development
Spooner somewhat joyfully announced
that he expected the total petrol consump-
tion for 1953 to beat the 1952 record of 670
million gallons. In that event the Com-
monwealth Treasurer will rake in nearly
£3O million in petrol-tax at a gallon
in a single year. If there is a single Com-
monwealth tax that could stand a reduc-
tion of at least a fifth, and probably a
quarter, it is petrol-tax.
Launched in 1925 or thereabouts as a
means of financing the building and up-
keep of roads, the tax began at 3d. a
gallon. During the bad times of 1929-32
another 4d. was added as unemployment-
relief tax, the motor-owner thus being
singled out for a special tax for some-
thing from which he derived no benefit.
Came the war, and petrol-tax quickly rose
to Is., the additional impost being a
special war-time tax.
However, no patriotic motor-owner
complained, though, without the 4d. being
repealed, the unemployed had ceased to
be. After the war, with employment
at peak and more and more motor-
vehicles coming on the roads, with con-
sequent big increases in petrol-tax
revenue, Prime Minister Chifley was
invited to reduce the tax and see that the
revenue was applied to the building and
maintenance of roads. He cut it to „
10|d., and announced that the revenue
was necessary to help “finance the Gov-
ernment’s social services,” or something
like that. Which once again meant a
sectional tax on motor-owners for no
direct benefit.
When the Menzies Government came
to power Treasurer Fadden rejected
appeals for reduced petrol-tax by saying
that the money was now needed for
national development, “of which roads
are a part.” By this time the revenue
from the tax had reached about £l5
million a year.
National development, of course,
brings Senator Spooner into the picture.
With a big share of the £3O million from
petrol tax for this year confronting him,
and with probably £5O or £6O million
already in the petrol-tax fund, he has
cause to be pleased. But motor-owners,
bumping over the country’s crumbling
ruins of roads, with only a few main
highways to serve a continent, with costs
mounting in all directions through
heavily-increased State registration and
compulsory insurance-fees, have no cause
for pleasure.
Nor have the people generally, for
this over-high special tax bears heavily
on living costs where road-transport of
goods and people has developed enor-
mously. If it really had to do so the
Federal Government would find it very
hard to defend the policy of a petrol-
tax for purposes other than road-making ;
it can have no defence at all to a demand
for reduction. A tax which, through
increased common usage of the com-
modity which bears it, reaches annual
proportions undreamed of a few years
ago, should be reduced to a reasonable
amount. The present impost of lOid.is
very much too much. — Shaver (W.A.).
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 259
Across
I—Monte1 —Monte Cervino subject with a
musical instrument. (10)
6 —Articles about King George in
the neighborhood of the Taj
Mahal. (4)
10 — A sharpener he follows in one of
the choruses of ancient drama.
,(7)
11 — He travels to an ancient capital
by one way. (7)
12 — The first girl to balance in top
place. (7)
13 — A lark in an African village, or
an American allusion to an Aus-
tralian swimming style? (5)
14 — The most crippled ones locate
me among the last. (6)
16 —Place for a blue piano going to
a red place. (7)
19 — Marriage - destroying demon
makes a Mauriac play like a
fashion by the East. (7)
20 — Slow movement of a funny
fellow I love. (6)
23 — Though the heart of Jolson is
on Sydney Harbor. (5)
24 — A Prime Minister is to pull an
oar in. (7)
26 — There’s no way out of it —Yours
Truly is behind the times. (7)
27 — Thingummybohs who dance? (7)
28— Nose is broken, according to the
Times. (4)
29 — It is not a Falstaffian charac-
terise to cut to a promontory.
(10)
Down
1 — N.S.W. town' says goodbye to
an unrolling stone’s accumula-
tions. (4, 4)
2 Short trees growing secretly. (5)
3 Don’t find so many opportunities
to put Idriess’s ideas into words?
(14)
4 Edward the Caddish? (6)
5 A right guy on the bunk is
going around. (8)
7 The stern winning of a service-
point making a face. (9)
8 — Composer is crook on a six-
footer. (6)
9 Sweet harem in Asia Minor per-
haps? (7, 7)
15 —Malformed girl has a little
laugh against a writer. (9)
17 — The conch is south-east like hell!
(8)
18— A little business setback to the
U.S. titan. (8)
21 — 111-will of the parent vermin. (6)
22 Nightingale calls for beer dis-
pensers. (3-3)
25 —Relative. (5)
Solution to Crossword No, 258


=1
Australia Can Make It!
ANOTHER MARS ACHIEVEMENT
w
m
''' •: ■
mm
H
,
•S !
■
MARS 14-2 in. ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
The current delivery of the latest 1 Mars All Geared Head Lathe to Australia’s largest
mining enterprise represents an important milestone in the progress of the Australian Machine Tool
Building Industry.
The unique lathe bed design of this unit takes the swarf away from the operator, thus reducing non-
producing periods to a minimum. A 5 ft. swing and a 30in. wide bed, provides an extremely high
operational capacity. The lathe is fitted with a force feed and magnetic filtered lubrication system.
Remember, this huge, powerful and positive lathe is wholly manufactured in Australia!
Two other famous
f
Gap bed, hollow spindle, avail-
able to 12 ft. centres. Built to
Schlesinger limits of accuracy.
Manufactured of Meehanite
castings produced in Mars
Laboratory Controlled Meehan-
ite Foundry.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
MARS
4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern milling Machine with guaranteed accuracy and
outstanding quality. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide
range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics. Schlesinger standards
of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
MARS ALL GEARED
HEAD, S.S. & S.c. LATHE
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert
Osbourne Pty. Ltd., 567-56!) Little. Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W.: Herbert Osbourne Pty. Ltd.. 109 Oxford Street, Sydney.
(JLI).! Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA (Bombay Province):
R. S. Mehta <fe Co., Ali Chrs., Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Barnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
m
MACHINE TOOL
Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
