

THE HOUSE
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Bulletin
Start Reading “FEATHER YOUR NEST”-mge 20
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 75—No. 3895
Wednesday, October 6, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ABANDON HOPE? NEVER, AT ST. ALBANS GATEWAY
THE city of St. Albans, which is situated twenty miles north of London in
Hertfordshire, is the modern successor of the ancient town of Verulamium,
founded soon after the Roman conquest of a.d. 43. Verulamium became the
centre of Roman civilisation in Britain and perhaps it was because of this
that Boadicea stormed the town in a.d. 60, laid it waste and killed 70,000
Roman soldiers. Twenty years later, at the instance of Agricola, Verulamium
was rebuilt.
The name of the modern city is derived from that of a Roman soldier,
Albanus, who embraced the Christian faith, and was executed in the 4th
century by his countrymen for having sheltered a Christian priest; he thus
became the first Christian to suffer martyrdom in England. He was executed
on Holmhurst Hill and there, in a.d. 793, Offa, King of Mercia, built a church
and founded a Benedictine Abbey which grew in wealth and importance, and
was followed later by a Norman Abbey. Round this ecclesiastical centre
grew the medieval town of St. Albans to which succeeding centuries have
made their characteristic architectural additions.
The principal entrance to the Monastery of St. Albans was the splendid
Abbey Gateway, shown in the accompanying illustration, and which is all
that remains of the many monastic buildings. It was built about 1365
on the site of an earlier gateway and it was used for many centuries as a
prison. The dungeons in which offenders were confined still exist beneath the
building. Until 1650 trials were held in the large room above the gate.
The building was the scene of a great riot during the peasants’ revolt,
known as the Wat Tyler rebellion, in 1381. A fireplace in a room on the
second floor bears the arms of Charles I and here, it is said, one of the
earliest printing presses was set up in a.d. 1480. The Abbey Gateway
ceased to be the town gaol in 1868, and two years later it became one of
the buildings of St. Albans School, for which purpose it is still used.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever yotl live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewritmg
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
I )rcsscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
TOO Bussell St., Melbourne; 14!) Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
, CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT'S: Please send me, free and without'
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
AJiDKKSS
(S.B. 1854) AGE.
L
1
BOOK HI IN TER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, will find the book you want—fiction,
sport, history, science, ‘‘^ ow .
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUi
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
YO. HO. HO!
There is a touch of piracy about review-
ing— at any rate, reviewing which tells
you what the book is about; and maybe
it is in the nature of things that Frank
Reid’s The Romance of the Great Barrier
Reef (Angus and Robertson) should come
to the present reviewer with a chart of
the treasure from a reviewer temporarily
warned by his doctor off excursions upon
the literary high seas.
As with all the best treasure-maps,
this is in cipher ; a number-cipher:
Treasure 3 100-101 etc 157 Wrecks
11 Mysteries 16 Tough Beche-de-Mer
85-81-87 88 (clams) etc 118-119 Lost
records 15 Tough 20 23-24-25 25-26-27 42
44 46-47-48 49-50 55 54 64 Lost Language
53 75 but 55 Tough 90 129 133 152 161
After a week spent in efforts to break
this code, the present reviewer was idly
turning over the pages of the book in
which it had been sent and wondering
what occasional pencil-markings down its
margins might signify, when in a blind-
ing flash the thought occurred Jo him:
Could the numerals on the chart refer to
pages in the book? Taking the most
intriguing set of letters and numerals,
“Lost Language 53 75 but 55,” he turned
to page 53 ; and sure enough there was
the desperado’s pencil-mark against the
statement;
When rescued by the crew of H.M.S.
Rattlesnake Barbara Thomson could only
remember a few words of English.
Wildly excited by this confirmation of
his theory, the reviewer hurried over to
page 75 ; here again the faultless pencil
pointed:
In 1875 Pella tier was discovered by the
crew of the John Bell, a pearler anchored
off Night Island. He had to be taken from
the tribe by force, and the only French
words that he could remember were “Je
ne sais pas.”
So far so good. The clues led unfail-
ingly to “Lost Language.” What, how-
ever, could be the meaning of “but 55”?
Turning back quickly to page 55, one
found again that unwavering streak of
graphite:
When rescued by the crew of H.M.S.
.Rattlesnake Barbara Thomson would not
explain why Wini had suddenly lost his
temper and dismissed her from Badu. Let
an old man on Badu give his version. He
was a boy when the white woman came to
the island.
“One time Wini hear about a white Mary
on Mooralug. She been come to Badu.
No good that one, talk, talk, talk all the
time. Altogether too much talk that one.”
“But 55,” see? Shored up by soft
pillows, the beached buccaneer sums up
in three words and three, numbers a
philosophy of life and a plan for the
future: “Sad that people should lose their
native tongue,” we can hear him think-
ing, “but how good for the Australians’
peace of mind if all their womenfolk
were lost in China and Russia until they
forgot the language, to drive the Com-
munists to despair in Chinese and Russian
before returning to do, with no more than
obedient sounds, the will of their men-
folk!”
The code having been broken, its mean-
ing was easy to piece together. The
three long sets of numerals all headed
“Tough” mean that the book is plenty
tough ; and indeed this white man, Wini,
who lorded it over Badu, made his best
impression by killing the two white men
he arrived with, beheading them and
handing their heads to the foremost
natives on the beach.
But, says the code, the story of Barrier
Reef tough guys begins much earlier, with
Bligh, on his long and amazing open-
boat voyage after the Bounty mutiny,
challenging an insubordinate seafarer
to a cutlass duel and giving another “a
good beating.” Then there was young
Bryant, the convict, escaping with Mrs.
Bryant, their children and others from
Port Jackson up towards Koepang, who
threw a quarrelsome companion into the
sea ; and 25-26-27 record the freebooter’s
interest in Captain Edwards, who set out
to take the Bounty mutineers from
Tahiti to England in “Pandora’s Box” ;
14 men manacled hand and foot in a cell
18ft. by lift, on the Pandora’s deck. The
ship struck the reef and sank in a few
minutes. The armorer’s mate struck off
as many manacles as he could, but only
ten of the mutineers were picked up in
the ship’s boats and taken to the sand-
bank with the rest of the crew and
allowed a gill of wine and two musket-
balls’ weight of bread every 24 hours.
The boats went on to Timor, where the
mutineers were again manacled; and so
taken on to trial in London, where four
were acquitted, three pardoned and three
hanged.
Next we come to 42, where Torres
Strait natives murder everyone on Raine
Island except an aboriginal who, stabbed
and thrown into the sea, pretended to be
dead and let the tide carry him out of
sight of the murderers; and on 44 Mrs.
Fraser, wife of the captain of the wrecked
Stirling Castle, is being urged up trees
after wild honey by natives prodding her
with firesticks ; 49-50 is the converse story
of the “Normanby Woman,” who was
“rescued,” taken by police to Cooktown
and so publicly washed, stared at, “pro-
tected” from aboriginal efforts to retrieve
her and exhibited in hospital (at a shilling
a look) that she moaned and cried con-
tinually, refused food and died within
four days.
Page 90 is Tom Wilkinson, the beche-
de-mer fisherman who was attacked from
behind by his aborigine crew, his cheek
ripped open by a spear and lifted to be
thrown into the sea ; he fell back into
the hold, where his rifle was, and fired at
the aborigines. They jumped into the
sea, and, rescuing the only black woman,
he left them there. Conversely, ref. 129,
Fred Wreford, on his way alone in his
launch from Morobe in New Guinea to
look after a sick man on the Markham
River, fell out of the boat as he was
throwing a blazing primus overboard and,
seven miles from land, had resigned him-
self to death when the launch returned
in a wide circle. Catching a trailing rope,
he hauled himself aboard.
Mrs, Mahoney is 133, who, when her
husband died, took over management of
his plantation and store on Sudest in
the Louisiades and ran a 20-ton motor-
driven trading-schooner: when a native
murderer took refuge on Sudest, she, the
only white on the island, tracked him
round the island for a week, captured him
and held him under her house with a
chain that came up through the floor to
her bedpost. On 152 we read of the
famous Yankee Ned Moseby and his ex-
ploits in the Straits ; on 161 how Nicholas
the Greek, knocked senseless and thrown
overboard, climbed back up the rudder,
finished his crew with an axe ; and later
agreed to guide a warship to find him-
self, steered her through a difficult pas-
sage to an island, went ashore and did
not return.
But the best of these tough references
is undoubtedly the story which has been
marked with four “x’s”: 167; about
George (“Yorkie”) Lawson, who lost a
lower arm dynamiting fish, and had a
hook screwed on; throwing an anchor
over the side of his boat, he caught his
hook in a link and followed it to the
bottom;
Going down, the only way he could
think of to free himself was to turn round
and round, thus unscrewing the hook.
Much though one would like the
Barrier Reef to be full of treasure-chests
and doubloons, our pirate’s map leads us
mainly to literary treasure; 3, for
instance, is the legend of the ship with a
silver keel wrecked off Murray Island;
157 is the fate of Charles Lebane, a Terri-
tory prospector, who jumped off the
wrecked Gothenberg off Holborne Island
with 300 oz. of gold round his waist and
in his pockets, missed the lifeboat and
sank. But “100-101 etc” contains the
genuine story of the Jardines’ silver
dinner-service made from a “mass of
.Spanish dollars cemented together with
lime and submarine action,” and “dis-
covered off Portlock Shoal, Great Barrier
Reef, in 1890.”
Then again, a native girl was found
wearing a necklace of strange coins on
Woodlark Island ; she said she had found
them on an outer reef at low tide—as
good a story as many girls of today might
tell to account for their jewellery ; and
Jacob Le Maire threw an iron-boxful of
pearls the natives had given him into
a watery cavern on the coast of New
Britain in 1615, fearful that if he was
apprehended by the Dutch East India
Company they would be confiscated.
The one entry of wrecks, on page 11,
may be taken as the choice of a great
many: a really brilliant wreck, in which
the Blue Bell, sailing into Keppel Bay in
1877, was elevated 25ft. above high water
by a rising rock ; probably the result of
an earthquake. “Lost Records 15” leads
us to a note on how “official vandals”
demolished Captain Cook’s cairn on
Mount Saunders; and “Mysteries 16”
refers to the complete disappearance of
lizards from the island Cook named
Lizard Island (“delicious and a welcome
change from salt meat,” Cook’s men
found them).
“Tough Beche-de-Mer” references are
not to the edibility of this Chinese deli-
cacy ; but the difficulty of getting it;
though one marked passage refers to the
theory that the “red prickly” slug was
poisonous, held for some time after some
Chinese had died after eating it; but dis-
countenanced by the discovery that the
meal had been cooked in a copper boiler.
It also seems to have given our explorer
pleasure to learn that, on being attacked,
Barrier Reef slugs, which go up to 3ft.
long, exude sticky white threads like
cotton or, if very annoyed, eject their
intestines ; and there is also a mark oppo-
site the useful household hint that the
water in which they are boiled washes
loose every particle of grease and dirt and
will also clean and polish brass and
copper; while its objectionable odor
disappears after rinsing in clean rain-
water.
But the best discovery of this sequence
is “88 (clams) etc,” in which the author
jeers contemptuously (in such company
as “German Harry,” “Nicholas the
Greek,” Carl Satini, Barney Andreason,
Douglas Pitt, Peter Poulsen and Frank
Lee) at stories of divers’ legs caught in
clams that close “like a steel trap”: Mr.
Reid says he “never knew one to close in
less than a minute” ; and says that he
and the above authorities and “many
others I could name” have told me that
none of them knew of any case of a
clam’s closing on a man’s leg.
On the other hand, there are the perils
of the bluebottles ; the stone-fish ; and
the diamond-fish that upset dinghies;
and on 118-119 there are just the mistakes
of divers who go too far: about 1000
are estimated to have died in Torres
Strait.
So there it is, with fine drawings by
Geoffrey C. Ingleton at the head of each
chapter ; and may God who sends you
such a good book for Christmas send
poor reviewers more often such maps
and guides to the treasure.
Builders at Work
Latest stepping-stones to the big Pen-
guin job of completing the first history
of art in the English language are Art
and Architecture in France (1500 to 1700)
by Anthony Blunt and Architecture in
Britain (1530 to 1830) by John Summer-
son.
As thousands of Australians are en-
gaged in building their own houses at
the present moment it is interesting to
note how it was done in the days when
some of the most glorious manorhouses
of England were created. One of the
very few well-documented cases of the
building of a house in the time of
Shakspeare is that of Sir Edward Pytts,
who in 1586 bought the manor and castle
of Kyre.
Apparently not satisfied with that, he
decided to build himself another dwell-
ing. He immediately started collecting
material, raising stone from a quarry in
his own park with a hired quarryman
and his own labor, and getting more
from Shropshire, Gloucestershire and
Bath, mainly by water. In the year of
the Armada he started noting-down costs
and wages.
Architects weren’t called architects—
the name was virtually unknown in those
days—they were known as master
masons. His chief mason at this time
was John Chaunce, from Bromsgrove,
whom he paid sevenpence a day without
keep, the same as his workmen. He paid
40s. for a plan drawn up by John
Symandes, a joiner of London, and £l5
for a chimneypiece of Mars and Venus
by a Flemish carver.
By 1595 a part of the house had been
completed and Sir Edward was thinking
of texts with which to adorn it. Sixteen
years later he was still thinking about
his building. He re-engaged his master
mason and offered him £lO a year and
free board and lodging until the work
was completed, and fetched one of the
masons working on the famous Bodleian
at Oxford down to Kyre to “drawe me
a new platte.” Evidently the new
“piatte” didn’t satisfy him, as a few
years later he is found paying Stickles
of London 40s. for a fresh “piatte.”
He died 31 years af(er he started,
leaving Kyre Park in the hands of John
Chaunce with £2OOO to finish it with, on
condition that he returned a book on
architecture he had lent him. It was no
doubt his passionate interest in building
which kept Sir Edward alive to the ripe
age of 76 years.
Kyre Park was completely rebuilt a
century later, so we have no means of
knowing what it looked like, but it was
probably on its own scale as magnificent
as any of the houses illustrated in the
Penguin volume, like Hengrave Hall
(Suffolk), Longleat (Wilts), or Middle
House, Mayfield (Sussex). Architecture
was a living thing in those days. One
didn’t select one’s “dream home” from
the pages of the “Herald” and hand the
plan to a contractor to get it pre-cut in
a factory by workmen who never saw
the houses they made. Pytts was the
real conductor of his building-project,
and the orchestra he played on came
from every part of England and several
parts of Europe.
The great architects of the time, like
Inigo Jones in England and Lemercier
and Lescot iff France, were Court ser-
vants and depended on Royal patrons,
but they lived with their job in much
the same way as old Sir Edward to
achieve results that still astound us.
De I’Orme, the superintendent of build-
ings for Henry the Second, a not par-
ticularly sweet-tempered monarch, laid
it down that a patron should select the
architect he wants but, having chosen
him, must let him do what he wants.
An unfortunate defect of the current
volumes is the commonplace quality of
a large proportion of the illustrations.
The man who took or selected the photo-
graphs might be technically expert but
he certainly hasn’t much feeling for
architecture.—F. S.
Style and Stoush
Denzii Batchelor’s Big Fight (Phoenix
House) is the story of most of the big
fights: from James Figg’s memorable
set-to with Ned Sutton at the Adam
and Eve in 1727 down to Carl (“Bobo”)
Olson’s win over Randolph Turpin last
year -a comparatively tame affair.
It must be some time since anything
like a history of the Ring has been
written. A book like this, presenting
facts and scenes from a mass of material
in a manageable form, and brought up-
to-date, fills an obvious need. Lovers
of the sport —not all, but enough—-like
to browse through such gory and glorious
scenes. Here they get the lot. Sporting
journalists, for urgent professional rea-
sons, often need some such aide-memoire,
as do quarrelsome fellows who debate
points of pugilistic history on licensed
premises ; who, if unconvinced by refer-
ence to the facts contained in this useful
authority, can always be hit on the head
with it. A handy size—not heavy enough
to cause serious injury, but substantial
enough to administer a stunning rebuke.
Its value for reference purposes is en-
hanced by a comprehensive index and
by appendices listing championship
fights (and, therefore, champions) in
chronological order. Appendix A for
champions under London Prize-ring
rules ; Appendix B, world champions in
weight-divisions, Queensberry rules.
Sporting journalism, for anyone with
literary aspirations, can pose dishearten-
ing problems of style. The journalist
can slip into the current jargon (for some
choice samples see the Sunday papers,
for a really choice sample see Sydney
“Truth” report of the second Rugby
League Test between Australia and Eng-
land recently, in which footballers were
likened to blood-crazed Chicago gang-
sters), or, like Neville Cardus, he can
revolt against it. But revolt, ironically
enough, often leads to the same thing,
an abuse of metaphor and simile.
Whether Cardus did, in fact, compare a
late cut with an African sunset is a fas-
cinating question which c^ u ‘ d be
answered definitely only after dusty ic-
search in the “Sydney Morning Herald
files; a task to daunt the most conscien-
tious reviewer. But this is an abiding
(Continued on page 34)


WHY OUR
1
Telephone I number has been changed
m
im-
m
m
111
mm
Ml
Msln
mm
Zm
BO9SI
mm
Wm- t
w
m
Sft*?
Because .. • The story of the development of the telephone in Australia is one of ever-increasing expansion and
planning for the future. This expansion has played an enormous part in the prosperity and growth of Anthony
Horderns’ whose problems of providing a better telephone shopping service has always been a major consideration.
With over 360,000 ’phones connected in Sydney alone, and with Exchanges continually being enlarged to cope with
the increasing demand, it is little wonder that even such a network of lines as we have, must eventually become
overburdened and inadequate. Our inward and outgoing calls amount to millions per year, so, in order to provide
for the increase in service, the Telephone Department 'found it necessary to give Anthony Horderns’ an entirely
new number, thus; 80951- We hope you will soon become as familiar with 80951 as you were with the old number. We are
sorry to lose it, but as the Department explains: "A new range of numbers, together with special equipment has been
Sag
90 lines always at your service, day or night, at Anthony Horderns’.
designed to provide improved service where a high calling rate is involved. This
equipment is also designed to provide the most efficient service where a
large number of lines are associated with a single number
So 80951 has been allotted to Anthony Horderns’. It’s a good number. For over
131 years we have been continually building a reputation for service in every
avenue of retail supply, and, consistent with our famous motto, "While I live I’ll grow,”
here is yet another invaluable extension of service to our customers.
To save yourself time, money and effort, just dial 80951 and do all your shopping through
' <Jr '•• ■ ■
Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping team of pleasant, helpful experts will do all your shopping for you. Put 80951 in your diary.
Ifill
-our streamlined
on the front page of your ’phone book, on the back of the kitchen
door, but most definitely put it in the page of your memory where
important phone numbers are kept! Remember, 80951 is
OUR NEW TELEPHONE NUMBER I
w


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 6, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3895
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P, H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEADOFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE CONFERENCE CRAZE
This year’s session of the U.N.O. Assembly provided
the daily press with barely a headline. It went through
the formal stage of rejecting the application of Red
China for membership. There was the usual struggle
for the microphone between East and West, Which
was even less listened-to by a preoccupied world than
in previous years.
It is now almost impossible to recognise the
gilded product of the efforts of Messrs. Molotov
and Evatt, and others equally voluble, who set out at
San Francisco at the end of the war to build a new
League of Nations which would be “different.” It
has turned out just like the old one, except that it is
more futile and has created bigger and louder talking-
staffs, and buildings which make the white-elephant
of Geneva, which the League bequeathed to the world
as its principal concrete achievement, look like a shack
in a migrant settlement. One of its agencies, Unesco,
is building a palace in Paris about a mile long and
looking like a huge pile of empty kerosene-cases; and
this, like the rest of its accommodation, will presently
hum with busybodying staff getting nowhere.
This year’s Assembly meeting accomplished nothing
except deadlock. And it cannot in future produce
any better result, because what the West proposes the
East automatically opposes. All the participants seem
to enjoy coming to decisions about Western New
Guinea and other areas, of which interested parties
take not the slightest notice, and meddling in the
government of trust territories about which the par-
ticipants outside the governing Powers know little or
nothing. The debate, generally speaking, is designed
to express the party lines of the various debaters
without having the slightest influence on the affairs
of the areas discussed. lylynheer Van Kleffens of the
Netherlands replaced Mrs. Pandit Nehru as chairman,
and a number of statesmen from very minor countries,
some of them with curious qualifications for office
in an organisation devoted to world peace and policing,
attained to minor chairmanships.
Any major personalities who were present hurried
home, though in fact there were few who bothered to
come at all, because there were so many other con-
ferences to settle world problems of the kind that
obstinately refuse to be settled that they couldn’t
afford to give all their time to a single wrangle.
The world, in fact, has become full of little U.N.
Assemblies all trying to make pacts, treaties, agreements
and settlements. The process of making, or failing to
make, them seems to be thoroughly enjoyed by the
participants, who come away from them radiant with
hope and loaded with satchels full of paper arrange-
ments and souvenir fountain-pens, but with nothing
concrete or permanent to show for their effort except
plans which in the end are overlaid and smothered by
other plans.
In Europe, contemporaneously with the last throes
of the main debates at U.N.0., there was, for instance,
a meeting of the Council of Europe at Strasbourg.
And at this the loquacious M. Mendes-France
bemoaned the absence of Britain from the European
Defence Council and “the supra-national element
which prevailed in the E.D.C. Treaty text” as two of
the main reasons why France rejected the European
Defence Treaty. And he proposed a “new European
institution which would determine the armed contribu-
tion of each member to Western defence.”
This, he said, would be within the framework of
the Brussels Treaty, would inspect and control arma-
ments of each member-country, and then there would
be no need for another military organisation and no
further objection to German membership of Nato.
He was insistent on the “closest possible participation
of Britain in the organisation of European Security”—
Britain, of course, is the only country in Europe outside
Russia which can claim to have a defence commen-
surate with its needs and resources. He emphasised that
“only the presence of Britain would make acceptable
to France the regrouping of European forces within
the structure which it was proposed to erect.” And he
wants to transform the Brussels Treaty into “a conven-
tion assuring European peace and security,” provide
for the “solemn recognition of German sovereignty
without any discrimination,” and for the recognition
of “the sufficiency of Nato as a military framework,
there being no need for any new military organisation.”
All these words and phrases mean nothing what-
ever to the average man-in-the-street, and seemingly
less to statesmen. For the Strasbourg consultation was
hastily closed so that the Nine-Power Conference on
German Rearmament could be held in London, some
of those present at this latter meeting arriving breath-
less from Manila, via U.N.O. in New York, Burma,
Strasbourg and other foreign parts.
And in London (with an awkward interlude while
the hosts dealt with the problem of how to seat the
heads of France, Germany and Luxembourg in proper
precedence at dinner) M. Mendes-France made it clear
what he had meant by “a solemn recognition of
German sovereignty without any discrimination” by
announcing—“firmly”—that the settlement of the
Saar dispute (of course in France’s favor, with the
Saar coal in her hands) must be tied to the solution
of German disarmament, for which he produced a
“package-plan,” promising that he would stake his
life that he would persuade the French National
Assembly to agree to it before the end of the year.
It contains such provisions as “an arms-control
system to guard against any revival of German
militarism, with Germany admitted as a Brussels Treaty
Power,” and “a firm British commitment on the
stationing of forces in Continental Europe, coupled
with U.S. guarantees.” As an afterthought or trump-
card he threw in the modest proposal that the French
plan for arms-control would involve a “ban on the
production of tanks, guns, heavy-ammunition aircraft,
atomic, bacterial and chemical weapons east of the
Rhine,” thus emasculating the Ruhr and destroying the
power of “rearmed” Germany to keep itself armed
save by the effort of the other Western Powers. Britain
agreed to keep four divisions in Europe till 1998!
The Manila Seato Pact, which was arranged early
in September to “put teeth into the resistance to Com-
munist aggression in South-East Asia,” has so far
receded into history behind the succeeding series of
conferences —U.N.0., German Rearmament, Gatt,
International Monetary Fund —that it was almost
forgotten when Mr. Nehni of India rose up in the
middle of the period of the London gathering to de-
nounce it as “dangerous and likely to antagonise a
great part of Asia by converting an area of peace in
South-East Asia into an area of potential war.” He
puts forward the novel idea, very palatable in Moscow,
since it is at present trying to buy India by offering to
reorganise its industrial potential for next to nothing
on a policy of outbidding every Western tender regard-
less of loss, that “if you think the Communist countries
are up to mischief, the best way of dealing with them
is not by threats, unless you intend to go to war, but
by talking with them.” There is something in it up to
the point that nothing can be lost by talking with them
so long as there is something specific to talk about and
weapons are kept handy in case of surprise. It is
certainly much better for nations individually to talk
with them than at them in the present mood of the
world, with bullets flying in the Formosa Strait, fingers
on triggers on almost every border in the world and
Power politics being played at en masse gatherings to
the limit.
The welter of conferences is gradually bringing the
world to a mazed condition in which sense of propor-
tion is lost and war becomes nearer. One of the
most salutary measures at present would be for all the
Western Powers to stop conferring eh bloc for a little
while and retire to their lairs to cool off, keeping in
being only those international organisations which are
doing something practical for mutual defence and
making any fresh arrangements quietly and in a way
that does not either panic or provoke potential
enemies. And U.N.O. should be wound-up before it
does real mischief.
Unfit for Publication?
In the Governor’s speech at the opening of the current
session of the N. S. Wales Parliament amendments
were foreshadowed to legislation “relating to the
control of obscene and indecent publications.” During
the Address-in-Reply debate Opposition-leader
Robson expressed concern as to the form this would
take. He promised wholehearted support if the sole
purpose was to tighten-up existing laws, but said that
if the intention was “to set up a dictatorship of the
press by a board under the control of the Minister,”
he would oppose it to the limit.
Agitation for action against obscene horror-,
crime- and sex-filled publications is not a local
phenomenon. Church-, school- and youth-welfare
organisations in Britain and America, as well as in
Australia, have been campaigning for some time against
the spate of “literature” in which the sex-scrambles of
the barnyard masquerade as love and romance;
brutality and strong-arm methods are held up as the
supreme masculine virtues, and super-criminals and
their tarts live in luxury and opulence until the final
page when, as a sop to convention, they “get what’s bin
cornin’ to them.”
The war between what ought to be published
and what actually is probably dates back to the inven-
tion of writing, and the argument as to what constitutes
obscenity and pornography is probably more ancient
still. 'lhere can be no final answer; the definitions
differ from one generation to another, with the added
complication that generations overlap and their ideas
with them. Novels which when published 30 years
ago were considered “daring” now appear dull to a
generation which has become conditioned to having the
latest rape case served-up as front-page news with
banner headlines, illustrated with photographs of the
victim, preferably with her mother, and of the scene
of the crime. This may be a reaction to the prudery
and mock-modesty of the Victorian age; it seems to
be a human tendency to go from one extreme to
another.
It so happens that at the moment the two Sydney
afternoon papers are endeavoring to outdo each other
in providing their readers with photos of near-nudes
taken from the most striking angles. The effect is to
make some of the subjects appear almost double-
jointed ; and classical sculptors and painters would
no doubt be amazed to observe the modern develop-
ment of the female form as it is portrayed in these
‘ artistic” photographs. Few photographic exposures
seem to be taken at face-level; they are generally bird’s-
eye or worm s-eye views. Scattered among such pictures
decorating the pages of the Sydney afternoon press are
usually to be found lengthy accounts of “teen-age
sex-orgies, ’ models in trouble, and the like, served
up hot. In the reporting of rape cases few of the
details are spared. It is a poor day that doesn’t
provide a “sex” poster.
There are those who consider that the nude is
always rude, even in the bathroom, and would put a
boiler-suit on a statue of Venus; there are those who
regard a popgun in the hands of a child as only slightly
less dangerous to his morals than marihuana cigarettes.
At the other end of the scale are those who, in the
name of realism, art or freedom, argue that there
should be no restraints at all on the right and inclina-
tion of the individual to express himself. No perfect
system can be devised, but somewhere between the
two extremes it should be possible to find a compromise
which will function without more than an occasional
lapse from commonsense.
South Australia has met the call for reforms by
amendments to its Police Offences Act. These have not
satisfied the more zealous crusaders, but test-prosecu-
tions launched under them have been successful, Vic-
toria has also amended its legislation, but has intro-
duced a system of registration of distributors which
has alarming possibilities and has already led to a
growth of private pre-publication censorship which
may well extend far beyond the scope intended by the
legislation.
Queensland’s Objectionable Literature Act, passed
last April, is the type of thing Mr. Robson fears the
Cahill Government has in mind. Its purpose, according
to the Attorney-General, Power, was “to ban the distri-
bution of the literature that will destroy the minds of
the young people of this State,” To complaints that the
word “objectionable” was undefinable, and that the
provision “or is otherwise calculated to injure the
citizens of the State” carried possibilities of political
censorship, he replied that “all we seek to do is prevent
the distribution of literature that we think is not in
the best interests of the children of this State.”
Critics suggested that the bill was more or less
based on the Irish Censorship of Publications Act,
which was designed to operate against “indecent pub-
lications,” and under which many English and
American magazines have been banned, including
“Argosy,” “Illustrated,” “Women’s Own,” “Picture-
goer,” “Photoplay,” “Reveille,” “Picture Post,” “Time,”
“Life,” “Look” and “Ladies’ Home Journal.”
Mr. Power’s reply to this began with “I don’t
know why the honorable member wanted to drag the
Irish into it” —a rather rich remark coming from the
sponsor of the bill, himself of Irish descent and a
member of a Cabinet which numbers among its II
names Gair, Duggan, Foley, Walsh, Moore, Power
and Riordan. Incidentally, in Victoria the correspond-
ing legislation was introduced by Chief-Secretary
Galvin, and it is probably a toss-up whether the N. S.
Wales bill will be sponsored by Attorney-General
Sheahan or Chief-Secretary Kelly.
Educationists are almost unanimous that many of
the so-called “comics” in circulation can have a
harmful effect upon children, and most thoughtful
parents agree that, to say the least, the effect is not
good. There are, of course, many “comics” which
can be regarded as the lineal descendants of the
“Deadwood Dicks” which the stern moralists of 50
years ago wrongly prophesied would corrupt the minds
of the youth of the day. That the prophecy wasn’t
fulfilled is used by many as an argument to prove that
there is no menace in the “literature” offered the
modern child. The difference is that nowadays, in
addition to the adventure-strips honestly intended for
children, there are others ostensibly put out for school-
boys, but in reality aimed at adolescents and adults of
low mental-age. Some of these concentrate on sex
and near-nudity; others, probably the more harmful
from a social viewpoint, glamorise crime and glorify
sadism and brutality. Few responsible people would
be sorry to see these go. But is a ban the right way to
go about the job?
Prohibition of liquor-traffic in America did not
stamp out drunkenness —it bred worse evils and
censorship will not of itself wipe out pornography.
If the community really wants to rid itself of this sordid
growth the initiative must come from within the
community; it cannot be imposed from above. It is
the task of the churches, the schools and, above all,
the parents to raise the public taste by precept and
example. And they are entitled to expect co-operation
from the press and radio —and not only on lip-service
level.
There will always be some who are prepared to
exploit obscenity for commercial gain, but the propf*
way to deal with these is through courts with clea y
defined powers, and operating in public sittings, y
the arbitrary action of boards whose membersh p
be changed at file whim of the party in power.
With the Cahill Government’s Fr .
Gag Act fresh in memory, and with abu
the press a frequent habit of the Premier an< * tj Qo f
General, it is not surprising that the mere mention ot
their proposal to control P
suspicions of their motives, even before y
have been disclosed.


THE SPIRIT OF PROGRESS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Germany Rearms
After a week of argument and com-
promise, and more than nine years after
the end of the war with Germany, the
western half of that battered country has
been permitted by its Western conquerors
to rearm. Eastern Germany is in a
different position.
It is an extraordinary state of affairs. No
peace has been made, and no peace will
be made, with Western Germany by the
Russians unless it is prepared to go Com-
munist. No peace has been made with
Austria, either, though all the West is
anxious for it. It is about the most
potent argument there is against the
Moscow claim that all the urge to peace
in the world emanates from the Kremlin.
The arrangement with Germany made
at the London conference is typical of
what is done in modem international
diplomacy. It seeks to obtain the best of
two worlds. Adjacent countries which
have suffered from war with Germany,
particularly France, are anxious to have
the benefit of German manpower, German
machinery and German military genius
to defend themselves against the Russian
menace, but they are determined to limit
German military effort to a point where
its force can mean little in a world clash.
The unworkable solution arrived at is,
of course, overlaid.with publicity to make
it appear a triumph almost as great as the
complete elimination of the Russian
danger would be.
It is proposed that Germany—even in
its lopped state the most populous and
virile of the West Continental countries,
and with the most natural resources—
shall now be permitted by the rest of the
Western world to have an army of 500,000
organised in 12 divisions, an air-force of
80,000 men and 1350 aircraft, and a
coastal navy of 20,000 men. With Italy,
the new “sovereign” State will be
admitted to the Brussels Pact, a strange
arrangement under which a group of
countries determine the maximum forces
of individual members and the limit of
their armament, but do not exercise any
command over the combination of all the
forces arrayed under the pact. That
command is the function of Nato, under
which the German army will serve.
The West Germans have given a pledge
to forgo for the duration of the Brussels
Pact the production of battleships, heavy
guns, submarines, bombers (atom or
otherwise), jet-fighters and guided-missiles.
And when the country’s “sovereignty”
is restored it will be allowed by agree-
ment to make and fly aircraft (not incon-
sistently with the Brussels Pact), to run
its courts, to cease to pay for the Allied
occupation. Germans will no longer bo
liable to arrest by the controlling Allies.
Exactly how long this grace-and-favor
arrangement will live if the potentially
strongest nation in Western Europe takes
the bit in its teeth remains to be seen.
But if German pride is not dead it
won’t be long. It looks very much like
a scheme to throw Germany ultimately
into the arms of another Hitler if one
should arise to capitalise mischievously
the natural patriotism of the German
people ; or into the hands of the Russians.
The agreement will make it certain that
Russia will redouble its efforts to win over
Western Germany or force it into the
Iron Curtain zone by threats. And it
scarcely will cement the friendship of the
Germans with the West, for it is built
on a foundation of mistrust and fear.
More Centralisation
Politicians and other tub-thumpers who
for years have talked about decentralisa-
tion without doing anything practical
about it have lately been reinforced by
those who consider that huge concentra-
tions of population and industry, in an
era of obliterative weapons, are the
greatest national danger. The weather,
which used to be subjected to a similar
charge of neglect, is being tackled by air-
conditioners and rain-makers, and the
Australian problem of population-drift
(which is not unique to this country) is
being handled by supporters of the New
States plan. Their obstacles are apathy
and vested interests in the existing States,
and especially in the State capitals and
in Canberra. Perhaps it’s time they made
our flesh creep, especially if they combine
that process with fewer suggestions for
new State boundaries and more useful
plans for a spreading of our still-meagre
numbers over the liveable parts of the
continent. The word “liveable,” incident-
ally, takes into account the activities of
the weather-conditions mentioned earlier.
The increasing urgency of the problem
is underlined by the census figures of the
Statistician. Sydney and its suburbs are
nearing two million people, and Mel-
bourne and suburbs have more than one
and a half million. Brisbane has topped
half a million, and Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart total almost another million.
Five-ninths of the continent’s popu-
lation, therefore, are in these six
cities, literally sitting-shots for a
modern enemy. The principal towns,
most of them of high industrial import-
ance, account for an additional half-
million in N.S.W., an additional 275,000
in Victoria, and fair numbers in the
other States. The effect on primary pro-
duction is less than would be expected
from these depressing figures, because new
farming techniques and scientific dis-
coveries are enabling output to be main-
tained or expanded, but the imponder-
ables of wasted time in suburban travel,
and of crime and misery in large cities
are certainly immense, and undoubtedly
far greater than we can afford in a com-
petitive world.
Solutions demand an extraordinary
degree of statesmanship. It is impossible
to deny the elusive appeal of the city to
country-dwellers and to immigrants, and
it is undeniable that no Government has
the power, even if it has the inclination,
to undertake compulsory transference of
population. The only argument that
seems likely to have the slightest impact
on this situation is that of its danger.
The peril of the people in the big cities
from possible enemy action is acute, and
the warnings are obvious.
Human nature being what it is, most
people will probable decide to take the
risk. But at least widespread and con-
stantly repeated warnings may have a
gradual effect.
Third- and Fourth-party
The New South Wales Parliament learned
last week from the Auditor-General’s
report that the Government Insurance
Office had made a loss of £478,720 for
the year ended June 30, 1954 —the first
loss recorded in its 28 years’ existence.
Ordinary business—fire, marine, general-
accident and workers’ compensation —
came out on the right side of the ledger
with a profit of £989,407, but third-party
insurance, despite steep rises in premium-
rates, recorded a fantastic loss of
£1,468,127.
This seems to be a case of chickens
coming home to roost. From the start
the Government Insurance Office went
flat-out to get the third-party business,
and the Department of Road Transport
acted as its very effective agent. For
several years all went well; the G. 1.0.
got an ever-increasing proportion of the
business and managed to show a profit on
it, even though it allowed civil servants
a hefty discount on their premiums.
The private insurance companies early
retired from the unequal contest. They
accepted what third-party business came
their way, but didn’t go out looking for
it. In the last few years they have had
reason to be glad; since 1949 the G. 1.0.
has steadily lost on third-party business.
Until this year profits on other branches
of insurance covered the losses, but the
pay-out is now so high as to swamp the
other departments. There is worse to
come; according to the Auditor-General
claims outstanding at June 30 have been
assessed at £4f million. This means that
the fourth party, the taxpayer, will have
an even bigger deficit to make up next
year.
The main explanation for this lies in
the Vastly increased sums awarded to
accident-victims by juries—there are cases
where the amount has been £20,000,
£30,000 and even £40,000. While the un-
fortunate victims of motor-accidents—
and their families—are entitled to full
sympathy and to the full amount of
damages their counsel can secure for
them under the present laws, these sums
contrast strangely with amounts paid
under Workers’ Compensation Acts in
respect of persons killed or injured in
the course of their employment.
There seems to be a fairly general feel-
ing that there is something wrong with
the present system, and that the final
answer does not lie in increased
premiums. The wisdom of sending such
cases to a jury has often been questioned,
and criticism is usually met with the cry
“Hands off the jury system.” But in
criminal cases the jury is asked to com
sider only its verdict ; sentence is a
matter for the judge. There seems no
reason why this principle should not be
applied to third-party cases, the jury de-
ciding the facts of the case; a judge or
court-assessor, the amount, if any, to be
paid.
An alternative would be to extend
accident-insurance to the whole com-
munity, at the same time widening its
scope to include all accidents, not merely
those in which motor-vehicles are
concerned.
By This Means
“In the ACT”: Making good its elec-
tion undertaking, the Menzies Govern-
ment has introduced a bill to modify the
income and property means-test, but
there was a wholesome reminder by the
Social Services Minister of an essential
element of Liberal policy—“that people
should be incentives to work and
save, and by this means to increase the
amount of property owned by them.” He
added that both work and savings were
necessary if we were to ensure full
employment and progress, with a rea-
sonable level of stability for the pur-
chasing-power pf money.
One of the most encouraging signs of
essential stability in the national charac-
ter was the rejection last May of the
“Labor” bait for abolition of the means-
test within the lifetime of the present
Parliament. It was a bait which cer-
tainly appealed to many now receiving
pensions, or likely to do so soon, or feel-
ing themselves entitled to greater assist-
ance from the Commonwealth. The fact
that so many rejected the shadow and
preferred the substance which is now to
be given in part proved that the elements
of self-reliance and thrift are still potent,
and that commonsense may be dormant
at times but asserts itself when necessary.
The economic stability achieved by
the Government is far more valuable to
pensioners and other citizens than pounds
more in pension-payment or pay-envelope
in a time of soaring inflation. The pur-
chasing-power of the pension, Mr. Mc-
Mahon pointed out, is actually more to-
day than it was when “Labor” was last
in office in the closing months of 1949,
while in the interim many anomalies
have been removed and the number of
pensioners increased.
More than 70,000 additional pensioners
will be added to the list as a result of the
current legislation, making the age-
pensioners more than half the total popu-
lation of about a million who are of
pensionable age. No one can claim that
this is ungenerous. It is an achievement
not equalled elsewhere in an uncertain
world.
Satisfying the Customer
No better pointer to the standard of
morals adopted by the “Labor” Govern-
ment in N. S. Wales could be provided
than by the speech of Mr. Cabin, on the
“Quinn case” in the Legislative Assembly.
Quinn alleged that he was bashed by
police in Inverell in 1948 in an attempt
to persuade him to confess to a crime
which he did not commit, and which
the police did not, in the end, attempt
to prove that he committed. He sued
in a court, but settled the action for £250,
according to his story, and Mr. Delaney,
the present Police Commissioner, was
alleged to have taken part in hushing-up
the matter and arranging the settlement.
A reputable solicitor of Inverell sup-
ported Quinn’s statements.
The move by the Parliamentary Opposi-
tion last week to secure inquiry by a
Select Committee was treated almost
with contempt. Mr. Cahill said that the
Opposition had “followed the pattern
ordered by the daily newspapers” and
“for some reason” was “seeking the
removal of the Commissioner of Police,
Mr. Delaney.” Then he added, after
comparing the case with the Studley-
Ruxton case:
I have discussed these matters with the
commissioner and told him that action
should be taken to see that police carry out
duties in a correct manner. He has lectured
his police and told them that they must
not assault people during investigations.
The Quinn case is settled. Quinn took all
his legal rights and was satisfied. If the
payment he says he received satisfied him;
why do you want the Government to re-
open the case?
If this statement had come from Mr.
Aubrey Doyle it might have been more
comprehensible. From the Premier of
New South Wales and head of the police
it' is so extraordinary that it is almost
unbelievable.
It appears that now, so far as he is
concerned, the police of New South Wales
ought not to batter accused people “dur-
ing investigations” —in fact, it is so wrong
that even Mr. Delaney has told them so,
straight out. But assuming in moments
of aberration they do happen to beat-up
the innocent, and the innocent are satis-
fied to take £250 of somebody’s money—
Mr. Cahill says that in the Inverell case
it was not the Crown’s—there is no
ground for complaint.
Even, presumably, if the beating pro-
duces manslaughter.
If Mr. Cahill means what he says, that
is the only inference from his easygoing
and shifty explanation. He obviously
has no quarrel with police who commit
assaults, so long as they pay up to the
satisfaction of the assaulted.
Unfair to Drinkers
‘Tommy the Toper”: It had been my
intention to undertake a thorough survey
of Sydney hotels for the purpose of con-
ducting a pub-opinion poll on the result
of the forthcoming liquor referendum.
It was not going to be a rushed affair —
one of those half-hearted pub-crawls
that begin at the Quay and finish at
Central station. I intended to do the job
thoroughly, taking in every hostelry
within the city limits, testing the feeling,
and the beer, in both public- and saloon-
bars, ladies’ lounge, and beergarden, if
any.
I had, indeed, already begun the
assignment, and the records, insofar as I
am able to decipher them, are rather
illuminating—which is not surprising,
since so many of those whose opinions
I recorded were quite lit-up. The
Bulletin was to have had the exclusive
rights to my survey as a token of thanks
for services rendered by various mem-
bers of its staff while I was engaged on
the field-work. But, unfortunately, I
have now discovered that my whole
scheme was based on a misconception.
Last Friday when I put my stock ques-
tion, “Six-o’clock, ten-o’clock or open all
night?” to a schooner-connoisseur in a
George-street bar, he came back with
“Git a load of this,” and handed me a
newspaper-cutting of a speech by Attor-
ney-General Sheahan. Here it is:
I had a conversation with the manager
of a large emporium at TattersaU’s Club
last week. He put the novel suggestion
to me that the- only ones who should
vote are the drinkers. (Laughter.)
It knocked me sideways. Novel sug-
gestion! To me the thought that anyone
other than the drinkers should have a
vote was completely novel. I said to the
bloke with the schooner, “Does he mean
that everyone has a vote on this referen-
dum?”
“Of course, mug,” he told me. “Even
blokes like youse. Crook, isn’t it?”
“Crook” is far too mild a word for it,
and there is no word strong enough to
describe those sycophants in the House
of Assembly who were responsible for
the (Laughter). What’s so funny about
confining the vote to drinkers? When a
ballot is taken on wheat-marketing the
only people entitled to vote are the
wheatgrowers— not the cyclists, the
garbage-men or the bookies, but the
fellows who actually grow the wheat.
Dairymen are consulted on matters
affecting the milk-industry; apiarists have
a say in the running of the Honey Board.
Even the Bread Industry has a con-
sumers’ representative—or did until she
resigned the other day. There’ll be no
consumers’ representative watching the
counting of the votes at the liquor referen-
dum. The publicans are permitted to
appoint scrutineers; so are the temper-
ance organisations. But nary a drinker
is permitted to interfere. Presumably this,
too, is a matter for (Laughter) in the
N. S. Wales Assembly. No wonder
Democracy is on the skids!
Battle Royal
“Ek Dum v : Amid all the argument about
whether or not the Commonwealth Defence
Department knows its business, and whether it
should surrender command and management ot
the armed forces to the back-benches of the
Federal Parliament, a little disjointed news has
drifted through about the exercise in invasion
carried on in Europe by Nato forces under
British command. This illustrates the changes
in modern war, and inferentially explains some-
thing of what lies behind the apparently melting-
pot condition of the Australian naval, military
and air forces. .
Here, as elsewhere, the problem of man-
power is largely being subordinated to equip-
ment while the defence methods and weaponry
of 1944 are being reorganised according to tne
ideas of 1954. . ,
The exercise in Germany—exercise name
Royal—occupied for six days 140,000 men. i
was commanded and planned by General h
Richard Gale, with the troops of several coun-
tries, notably the Dutch and Belgians, in J ol^ ea
in corps with the British, Canadians and U. •
The theoretic basis of the business was mat
a numerically superior Northland force arrn
with modern but not with atomic weap
should make a swift mechanised attack trom a
line between Osnaburgh and Oeynhauseni
North Germany, sweeping over the TeutoPurger
hills—where Varus cried for somebody to give
him back his legions. .
The Southland forces, numerically mucn
inferior, but armed with a couple of atom
guns, were charged with the task of repelli g
th The t Fhst British-Netherland Army Pjoved <m
September 22, crossing the border in sever
places bound for the Ljppe River, bey
Teutobiirger country, which is f . a]s^
wooded ridge and no mean obstacle,
beyond the Ems River, which is anotnei
(i Continued on next page)


obstacle of no mean dimensions —as any Aus-
tralian p.-0.-w. who swam it in the first world
war knows.
The advance-forces were the 4th Netherlands
Infantry on the west, and on the east the 7th
British Armored Division, commanded by
Lieutenant-General Jim Cassels, well known to
Australians —he was in charge of the British
Commonwealth Division in Korea during its
crucial period, and is about as lively and
fast-moving a commander as any army knows.
His Royal Dragoons surprised the Belgian
defenders of the bridge at Bunde on the Else
River, the border, and bagged the lot before
they could blow their demolition-charges,
though theirs was only a reconnaissance move-
ment. The Dutch on the west fell into the
clutches of Princess Pat’s Canadians, who were
serving in defence in the Belgian I Corps, and
were mauled in an ambush. The Southlanders
stood on their defensive positions and prepared
to make the foe fight his way through the
Teutobiirgers.
On the second day the Southlanders waded
in with their atomic guns and fired two shells
around the Halle Gap. They were only
theoretically fired, with a simulation of after-
maths by fireworks. The umpires conceded
to one of the shots casualties in the command
group of the 7th Armored Brigade (including
the brigade-commander), also part of the h.q.
of a field regiment and part of the h.q.
of another armored regiment. It also caused
a large roadblock north of Halle. The 4/7th
Dragoon Guards and the 4th Hussars, carrying
men of the Royal West Kents on their tanks,
collected one shell as they were attacking the
Belgians in Teutobiirger positions, and the other
had for its target the Bth Hussars and the
Cameron Highlanders—riding on tanks —behind
the armored-car advance-guard of Royal
Dragoons. These forces drove the bulk of the
Belgian forces off the ridge around the Halle
Gap.
The most notable feature of the operations,
which covered 7500 square miles, was not in the
effects of atomic weapons, which proved merely
an ingredient and not a determinant in the
battle, but the fact that the 1954 kind of war
calls for more and more infantry and more and
more flexibility and mobility.
Some of the defending parachute-troops which
took part in the battle came from as far afield
as Liverpool and Glasgow. They worked their
normal civilian shifts at home on Friday after-
noon, were flown to Germany, “fought” on
Sunday in an assembly exercise, and were back
at work on their native heaths on Monday
morning.
And this seems to hold the lesson of the
exercise for Australia, which hasn’t any para-
chute-troops, and which certainly hasn’t as yet
established the co-ordination between ground-
and air-forces which has become the prime
essential of modern battle, in which the
sovereign ability is represented by power to
move quickly to get out of trouble and avoid
bombing in both attack and defence.
The 280 mm. atomic cannon is a remarkably
flexible weapon considering its size. But it
weighs 85 tons, and is so big that it moves on
two transporters connected by telephone. It
has a range of 20 miles, can travel on a high-
way at 35 miles an hour, cross-country at 15
miles. It can be assembled for firing in about
20 minutes and can be swung a complete
circle. But it still weighs 85 tons, it costs
£200,000 and it cannot be used like a pea-
rifle. In this exercise the lesson seemed to be
that it did not justify its cost.
The essentials of battle success lie in the
co-ordination of ground and air effort and that
in the next carnage one will be hamstrung com-
pletely without the other. Also the results
completely negative the theories of the push-
button war. The call in the next war will be
for more and more trained men.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney City Council jaunt to
America, taking in all spots where a car
has ever been known to park or in which
at some future date a car might reason-
ably be expected to park, is now under
way. It has set a pretty precedent for a
Parliamentary delegation to America and
Europe to investigate tunnels, plain and
fancy.
• •
On Friday two high-ranking civil ser-
vants in France were arrested on charges
of espionage, and on Saturday the Secre-
tary-General of France’s Supreme
National Defence Council was also
arraigned. Up till Monday the French
Government had still not received a
cable of protest from Dr. Evatt.
• •
Anyone who feels that the announced
cost of training a National Service
trainee for 140 days, including the initial
98 days’ obligatory camp, is too high at
£530, should ask himself what would be
the cost to Australia of not training its
young men.
• •
Australia can now export rice, “in view
of the present satisfactory supply posi-
tion.” But is it really wise to encourage
more weddings in Asia?
• •
Snippet from a Westralian Assembly
debate ; matter under discussion, whether
21 or 30 should be the qualifying age
for women on juries:
H»n. A. V. R. Abbott: Is it a nice thing for
young girls, in the fresh bloom of their
youth, to serve on juries, when all their
thoughts should be of romance? Is it a
nice thing for a young girl to be dis-
illusioned and hardened at that age?
Mr. Lawrence : How long is it since you were
out with a girl of 21?
• •
The Tariff Board has thrown a bucket
of cold water over those manufacturers
who have been looking fdr higher tariffs
to save them from the results of their
own inefficiency. The board’s report
reminds such people that its function is
to preserve worth-while, efficient industry,
not to protect unsuccessful industries.
It has found in some industries “a dis-
concerting casualness towards costs”; it
also feels that high charges by Govern-
ment instrumentalities, road-transport
taxes and high shipping costs are factors
helping to keep costs up.
• •
Efforts to sell our coal in the Far East
will be made by a trade group of three
(including A. E. Warburton, member of
the Joint Coal Board), which will leave
late this month on a six-weeks’ trip.
Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong are
regarded as outlets for suitable Australian
coal. The delegation will have to offer
some assurances of continuity of supply
and shipping.
• •
Two Opposition to
Cahill’s —if it is Cahill’s —Liquor Refer-
endum Bill were proposed in the N. S.
Wales Assembly, One attempted to have
clubs excluded from the referendum —the
Government has given no convincing
reasons for their inclusion and many
“Labor” members and supporters have
shown themselves heartily opposed to it
—and the other asked for the referendum
to be postponed until after the Govern-
ment had introduced its Liquor Reform
Bill. Both moves were defeated on a
party-vote.
• a
Dennett, MX.A., one of the Hollway
Libs in the Victorian Assembly, looks
like living a restless life from now on.
He has vowed he will not rest until the
1952 royal commission on bribery-allega-
tions is completed. This was a commis-
sion set up by the McDonald Country-
party Government to inquire into charges
that offers of portfolios were being
hawked around to secure support in party
faction-squabbles. It sat for a few days,
was adjourned and hasn’t reassembled
since.
0 0
Dr. Evatt’s attitude towards the gagging
of his followers seems to depend on
whether the gagging is done by the
Speaker in the House or by himself in
caucus.
• •
Defence Minister Mcßride is acting as
Postmaster-General during the illness of
Larry Anthony. With the P.M.G. laid-
up and Treasurer Fadden and Commerce
Minister McEwen abroad, Earle Page is
the only Country-party Minister on deck
at the moment. He thus takes over tem-
porarily as leader of the party, a job he
held for the first 20 years of its
existence.
• •
In the course of the Senate debate on the
Appropriations, “Labor” Senator Arnold,
complaining that the usefulness of the
Senate was dying, said: “If the Senate
keeps on going the way it is, I will advo-
cate its abolition.” Watch out, Senator!
That’s been your party’s policy for de-
cades, but if you start asking for it to
be carried out you may lose your
endorsement.
• G
“Stromlo”: Perhaps those politicians
and others objecting to television would
approve of the stunt advertised in San
Francisco two years ago—dummy TV
aerials for attaching to roofs. The pur-
pose, apparently, in a country conscious
of how the Joneses next door live, was to
suggest social equality without requiring
THE HANDS OF CLOSING-TIME
the actual expenditure of too much cash.
Two puzzling features were that real TV
sets were available anywhere for about
nothing down and a dollar a week, and
the reasons which could be offered to
visitors for the absence of a set in the
living-room.
• •
Australia suffered grievously from the
obstinate refusal of the Chifley-Evatt
Government to allow the U.S. to retain
its great war-time base on Manus Island
—and a vast store of equipment subse-
quently found its way from that base to
Communist China. However, the full
facts of the loss of the base are not yet
to be made public, despite a recent ques-
tion in the House of Reps asked by
Keon, of Yarra. The Prime Minister told
him the documents could not be pub-
lished without disclosing secret communi-
cations of other Governments. “Before
any publication of the views of those
Governments their consent would have
to be obtained. In the circumstances it
is not reasonable to expect such con-
currence to be given.”
• •
As Australian, American, French and
Norwegian firms push ahead with their
sections of the Snowy Mountains scheme
the Authority’s own forces are moving
further back into the mountains to pro-
vide access and to collect data for the
future projects in the area. They include
hydrographic parties installing river-
gauging stations in headwaters of the
Murray in isolated and rugged country.
Their nearest settlement will be Jinda-
byne, on the Snowy, 40 miles away on
the other side of the main range.
• •
“In the ACT”: After Fadden had
said bluntly in Washington that words
and hopes on freer U.S. trade were of
no use without capacity and deeds, an
American spokesman replied with a
classic example of double-talk. According
to cabled reports, the Assistant Secretary
of State for Economic Affairs, Mr. Sam
Waugh, said that “the failure of the U.S.
Congress to pass President Eisenhower’s
liberalised trade and tariff programme
did not mean a reversal of U.S. policy of
removing barriers to trade,” Then what
in Uncle Sam’s name did it mean?
• •
N. S. Wales Minister for Justice Down-
ing says that if any substantial part of
the State favors a different closing-hour
from the rest of the State in the liquor
referendum that fact will be taken into
consideration by the Government. Even
if Broken Hill votes for six-o’clock?
• •
“X.S.”: Latest development in the
accident-damage business is the discovery
by a Melbourne judge that, under exist-
ing law, a son or daughter, or even a mis-
tress, can sue a driver for damages for
physical injuries received while sitting in
his car, but that a wife can claim only
for material damage. She can be com-
pensated for a soiled dress, but not for a
broken leg.
• . •
Former N. S. Wales Mines Minister
Arthur is to manage Negro boxer Freddie
Dawson, Joe’s comer, according to
Dawson, is 25 per cent.
• •
Modem transport is making the
modem city almost impossible to live in,
according to N. A. Gibbs, organiser of
the Melbourne Manufacturing Grocers’
Union. Tramwaymen gave an accidental
demonstration of one way in which it
can be made more liveable when they
held a slopwork meeting for four hours.
Minus trams, the city’s traffic flowed
faster than it has done for a decade.
• •
J. V. Stout, secretary of Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, complains that by
deferring the national-service training of
country boys the Government is “estab-
lishing a new privileged class.” This
illustrates the cockeyed view many
“Labor” men hold on military training,
although compulsory service was origin-
ally brought in by a Labor Government.
Surely if a country is worth living in
those who are really privileged are the
ones who are permitted to serve it, not
those who are denied the opportunity?
• •
Arthur Drysdale, who created Tas-
manian Lotteries to fill the gap left in
the life of Hobart when Tat L’s left Tassie,
intends to challenge the right of State
Governments to ban the sale of his tickets
within their boundaries. Grounds will
be old friend Section 92.
• •
Price-control will end in Tasmania on
October 31 when powers given under the
present Act expire. Premier Cosgrove
sought an extension for another twelve
months, but the Legislative Council last
week rejected his bill. In actual fact
control has almost ceased already; meat
potatoes, copper and firewood are the
only items still tied.
• •
From Darlinghurst:
Having listened all last week to addresses by
counsel for Dr. Evatt’s secretaries and Rupert
Lockwood seeking to prove—without the pro-
duction of evidence beyond their own surmises
—that the notorious Document J was a forgery
resulting from a conspiracy by Petrov and
others, the royal commissioners on espionage
heard Mr. J. A. Meagher, for O’Sullivan, say
that Dr. Evatt’s charges against O’Sullivan
were “the dirtiest piece of smearing I have
ever seen in the community.” Mr. Justice
Ligertwood said that he had firmly come to
the conclusion that Lockwood wrote Document
J, and Mr. Justice Owen, the chairman, said:
“None of us has had any idea that
O’Sullivan typed or wrote any part of
Document J. We have sat here for eight
weeks listening to allegations that he did,
but there is not a tittle of evidence to
support it.”
And Mr. Justice Philp added:
“We have heard the evidence, and I can
say that O’Sullivan was not even a part-
author of Document J.”
Dr. Evatt, last week, with the help of Senator
Tangney, appeared to be holding a royal com-
mission of Ins own.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
'THE daughter of the elderly lady
in the corner seat was “expecting” ;
mother and her crony beside her had
discussed, with much repetition and
enjoyment, every detail of every stage to
the present day—visits to the doctor, diet-
ing, pre-natal care: “All so different now,
love, isn’t it?” Meanwhile the elderly
gentleman seated opposite writhed in
embarrassment as the voices rose above
the roar of wheels on the rails —his chance
came. “The way that girl’s worked!”
screeched the prospective granddam. “The
way she’s sewed! And knitted! You
wouldn’t believe it, love, if I told you the
boxes and boxes of things she’s got put
away. It’s all so necessary, they tell her.
Why, you’d think the poor child was
coming into the world naked!” The e.g.
dived in. “Good heavens, woman!
Don’t tell me that’s been changed,
too!”—“C.T.”
♦♦♦
“Metralia”: Contemplation of their
navels, by devotees of Buddha, may or
may not be waste of time but has never
been classed as morally scandalous. But
the expert in nudity currently visiting us
has smirched my innocence regarding this
humble organ. “All my girls,” she primly
declares, “wear rhinestones in their
navels.” Can there, then, be those who
seethe with passion on sighting this little
anatomical device which is, for practical
purposes, pensioned-off at so early a stage
in our mortal careers? Anyhow, whatever
its salutary effect on the beholder, a
rhinestone in the navel must be hell for
the wearer. A strip-teasers’ award should
forbid so barbarous a practice.
*** ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Macnell”; You blokes whingeing
about book-censorship and comic-cutting
make me laugh. The Broadcasting Con-
trol Board has the game really sewn-up..
Doing a radio-script, had to have a
destroyer’s gunnery-director cleaved-
open by a direct hit from a Jap cruiser’s
eight-inch brick. The first-lieutenant’s
natural expletive, ejaculated as he reeled
from the blast and choked in the smoke,
was reduced to that descriptive expression
of shock and pent-up emotion —“Heck!”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Muskeen”; It is quite possible that
the word “shanghai” (B. 22/9/’54) had a/
Gaelic origin, but I incline to the theory < ~
that the weapon, or toy, or whatever the
thing is, was invented by an Irishman
named Shane, who celebrated his achieve-
ment by becoming remarkably “high.”
The real truth of the matter is that the
armament got its name from the same
town in China that gave its name to the
kidnapping of drunken or Mickey Finn’d
seamen in the days of sail.
“Stinger”: On this symposium on
shanghais—l have a shanghai, actually
from Shanghai. Civil-airline friend
brought it back ; small fork, made of thin
metal, thin rubber-bands; not at all the
sort of weapon one cut from a thick
hedge-fork and fitted with cut-up bike-
tyres. But its effect on our caterwauling
colony of Randwick cats is something in
the nature of a H-bomb. The secret lies
in the ammo. Just as a War II howitzer
rates pop-gun calibre against Monty’s
atomic artillery, so are the lead-pellets
of yore outmoded by my ammunition-
small, colored balls, not much bigger
than a ball-bearing, and packed with best
percussion-acting Chinese powder. Let
go at Tom last night, serenading from
atop a 6ft. fence. Bang, flash! He leapt
so high I had time to get off two more
rounds before he landed. Don’t know
the designer’s intention —kid’s toy prob-
ably—but that Tom knows mine!
■* * ♦
“Dune”: Let me in before the “getting-
out-of-foreign-orders” stakes close. Entry
comes from a railway workshops near
Sydney, where a prospective father de-
cided on a custom-built perambulator for
the nipper. After months of boss’s-time
work, the job, a really tidy piece of
cabinet work, was completed. Mum had
done her job, too. So Dad conveniently
forgot to take his lunch-basket to toil one
day; Mum, baby under one arm and
lunch-box under the other, appealed to
the western gatekeeper for permission to
see her husband. This was, of course.
“Think of it, brethren —all the streets paved with uranium!”
readily granted. Lunch duly delivered
and the baby duly admired by all and
sundry, including the boss, Mum then
wheeled her child out the eastern gate in
a brand-new pram.
❖ * *x*
“B. A. Ker”; Those architects who
moved “Swilliam” to poetical lament
because the houses they design for the
Sunday newspapers always have the
door shut (B. 25/8/’54) are capable of
much worse things. The pen is mightier
than the saw —or trowel; it can fit large
“That’s right, madam —EVERYTHING but the ’groom.”
things into smaller spaces, anyway. In
a recent plan the architect not only suc-
ceeded in squeezing a bath, pedestal
basin, lavatory pedestal-pan and shower*
recess into a small bathroom, but also
achieved an abundance of room between
the bath and recess. Unfortunately,
baths measure 2ft. 6in. across, not about
Ift. 3in. as the bath on the plan scaled.
An unimaginative tradesman could have
got a mere 10 inches width in the aisle
between bath and shower-recess. Maybe
it was as well that “Swilliam” couldn’t
get into that house—he mightn’t have
been able to turn around to get out again.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Mugga Way”: Hard on the heels of
the announcement that four relatives of
the fallen will be invited by the Govern-
ment to attend the unveiling of the El
Alamein memorial by “Monty” on Octo-
ber 24 came reports of plans for visits
by Old Diggers to the battlefields of
Gallipoli and France. So far the plans
are unofficial, and it is not known what
official backing, if any, they might be
given, but many Diggers would probably
jump at the chance of a trip which would
be at once a reunion and a pilgrimage.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Capricorn”: The Soviet recently made
a somewhat belated claim to inventing
the steam-engine. Britain having failed
to send a stiff Note, they’ve now gone on
to “invent” the boomerang, unearthing,
in satellite-Lithuania, an early model to
substantiate their claim. We’ll next be
hearing that two-up has been played in
the Kremlin for centuries. Indeed, the
police-State may end by claiming to have
invented democracy.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Alma”: Can assure artist Lusby’s
doubting gentleman (B. 15/9/’54) that
that motor-scooter would carry three.
While touring Italy our decrepit ex-taxi
developed a curious defect in a village
near Sorrento. Pushing her from
garage to garage, in the hopes of
finding a mechanic old and wise enough
to diagnose her malady, we (five
girls) picked up a retinue of interpreters,
onlookers and hangers-on. Half the
Italian population seems to ride motor-
scooters, either Lambretta or Vespa, and
one of our retinue who had the first-
named kindly suggested that “You come
to Sorrent’ on my Lambrett’, bab-ee?” to
me. “Bab-ee” hastily declined, using my
cobber as an excuse and explaining that
we were inseparable. Our gallant patted
his steed and indicated there was room
for three ; cobber in turn indicated it was
impossible for her to go without the other
three girls ; and as our friend roared out
of the garage on his scooter we reckoned
we had beaten him. Not a bit of it;
two minutes later he was back with two
more gallants, each mounted on a
scooter: Anyone know the road from
Sorrento towards Amalfi? Well, I’ve been
over it, three to a scooter, 40 m.p.h., and
still nobody wants my autograph.
❖ *> ♦♦♦
“Skiamket”; Pint-pot ablutions, is it
(B. 15/9/’54)? In the Southern Sahara,
where I was, for my sins, condemned to
spend eight years of my young life, local
Mahommedans, who must bathe before
prayer, managed to do the whole opera-
tion on one 50-cigarette tin of water.
First, a few drops in one cupped hand
did the neck, face, head and beard;
another drop, the arms, hands, legs and
feet; a third, stomach, thighs, hips ; and
the fourth sufficed to swill out the mouth
several times. Then, appropriately clad,
and clean in the sight of Allah, the
prostrations began.
♦♦+ *** *x*
“G.”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) can’t do
quite as well as Holyhead (B. 22 /9 / ’54)
with its five pubs side-by-side, but the
Smoky City’s little Market-street caters
amply for the drinker who likes an occa-
sional change of scene and tipple without
too much travel. The thoroughfare, con-
necting Scott-street and Hunter-street, is
a bare 30yds. long, but provides for the
droughty a choice of three pubs and two
wine-saloons. Two of the pubs sell one
brand of beer, the third another ; the wine-
saloons, side-by-side, sell different brands
and both do well.
* ❖
“Balwyn”: Directors of the Pilgrim
Trust (prospective publishers of a new
edition of the letters of Charles Dickens)
are convinced that original correspond-
ence in the novelist’s own hand still exists
in Australia. They are asking the loan of
any of fhese literary treasures which can
be located. Dickens’s links with this
country were slight but interesting. Two
of his sons migrated here and lived in
Victoria. Dickens himself was almost
tempted to accept an offer of £lO,OOO
for an eight-months’ reading tour of Aus-
tralia ; he even planned a book of essays
on his Antipodean travels, to be called
The Uncommercial Traveller Upside
Down. Difficulty in adjusting his
domestic affairs during such a long
absence from home forced him to
abandon the idea.
THE DREAMERS
“The N.S.W. Premier, Mr. Cahill, said in a
broadcast that he had asked experts to examine
a proposal for a Sydney Harbor tunnel.”
There’s many and many a reason why a
man should dig a hole ;
It helps divert the traffic ; it’s a way of
getting coal;
And when a “Labor” Government out-
grows its rubbish-bin
A harbor-tunnel’s handiest to bury
scandal in.
So thereupon, spontaneously, arose a Mr.
Mallam :
“The Bridge is overcrowded! We need a
what d’ you call ’em!”
“A tunnel ?” said the Premier. “Just what
I was going to say ;
I’ll get the experts on it to report without
delay.”
The word went round the party-room
from “Labor” lip to lip,
“It looks like there’s a prospect of a
pleasant little trip,
For a country can’t spend millions until
the Government
Sends a party of the members to find out
how money’s spent.
“We’ll inspect the Mersey tunnel in
commencement of our work.
Then the one beneath the Hudson—that
will take us to New York ;
We needn’t go to Europe, but perhaps
we’ll feel we oughter,
To inspect the Simplon tunnel, though it
isn’t under water . . .”
They had almost got their passports in
this beatific vision
When they noticed that the Premier was
sneering in derision;
For any hole’s a loophole, and a
metaphoric one’ll
Be as good for Cahill to hide in as a real
Harbor-tunnel.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.
POETIC JUSTICE
“Church representatives in Sydney did not
support a suggestion by a London church news-
paper that divorce co-respondents should be
sent to prison.”—Sydney “Sun-Herald.
They’re thieves, aren’t they, so why let
them off lightly ? ,
Put them in bonds which make een
tough men flinch;
Put them where henceforth they will go
contritely
By forcing them to wed the wives they
pinch !
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


/"\UR pay-wallah, a two-pip with
an oversized ego, would have
been fair game for “Sister Ellell,” but
met his match with matron neverthe-
less. Hospitalised for a minor operation,
he had to, have the usual “prep,” and
tried to swing his rank at the V.A. who
arrived with the tray, can and black-
snake, He abruptly refused her attentions
and demanded to see the matron. Matron
arrived, her three silver pips ashine, and
just as abruptly took the shine out of two-
pips. Previously known as “Abdul the
Bul-Bul,” the pay-wallah afterwards be-
came “Enema Pasha” to the whole
camp.—“ Orderly Room.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pacem”: A member of an inter-
national table-tennis team, interviewed on
a Brisbane commercial radio-station, was
asked the secret of keeping fit in playing
table-tennis. He replied that the secret
was to abstain from alcoholic liquors.
Sponsor? A Queensland brewery.
♦i« *i* *i*
“Bo”: There are several things about
radio-listening that make my choler rise,
apart from my back-stud rolling under
the set. Not the least is when an impas-
sioned plea for me to buy someone’s face-
powder, to the use of which I’m not
addicted, is performed by two voices,
taken in relays. Or when, the first few
bars of a Schubert Impromptu having
induced me to lean back in anticipation
of a flood of beauty, it fades away and
some half-wit breaks in to deliver the
glad tidings that the latest-type five-way-
stretch step-ins are being sacrificed at
Glubb’s Glamor Store at below manufac-
turer’s cost. Then there is the announcer
who pronounces Mungindi as Mun-gm-
dee. And when you’re particularly
anxious to get the name of the song just
sung or the piece just played and the
goat doesn’t disclose it. And of course
when the Senate is on the air. But the
time when I need the tightest grip on my-
self so I won’t grab the axe is when, in-
tending, in a dimmed light, to turn the
knob to switch to another station, I
accidentally turn the volume-knob full
on and nearly leap out of my hide with
the resultant hideous blare.
❖ *> ❖
“Spokeshave”: The discussion was on
examinations at our local high school. All
the kids assembled had failed in French ;
they blamed their teacher, who had the
highest academic honors in the depart-
ment, but who, so they said, simply
couldn’t teach the language. “Well,” I
said, “why don’t you go to your head-
master and suggest that he gives your aunt
the job? She’s half-French and speaks
the language perfectly.” “Yes, but,” said
one of the kids scornfully, “she hasn’t any
degrees. Miss Kerfoops has dozens.
Auntie doesn’t even know the grammar,
so how could she teach the language?”
“Well, now, you blooming knowalls,” I
said. “Your aunt doesn’t know the
grammar, but, as you well know, she can
speak and write the language to perfec-
tion. Miss Kerfoops knows the grammar,
but can neither speak nor write the
language. Why wouldn’t your aunt be
the better teacher?” I’m bothered if they
could see it —they are as degree-mad as
the department.
* ♦♦♦ *i*
“Don Juan”: Even with a price-rise
threatening Sydney’s meat, we’re not so
badly off as our opulent neighbor, the
U.S. Just read of a Detroit car-dealer con-
tributing to his country’s food-needs;
advertising “Juicy Chevs, 37 cents a lb.;
Prime Buicks, 46 cents a lb.; Choice
Grade Fords, 28 cents a lb.” Machine-
age menu, indeed.
* ❖ ❖ |
“Muskeen”: Adoption by the War
Office of the Belgian F.N. rifle has re-
suited in the pensioning-off of the com-
mands “Slope Arms” and “Order Arms,”
which have been with the British Army
appearance of the first muskets,
The new commands will be “Trail Arms”
and “Shoulder Arms,” but these orders
wifi mean no change in the ceremonial
of rifle-regiments, which have always
marched at the trail in column, or the
shoulder in file, ever since they were
formed to handle the rifle when it was
first introduced into the Army. Rifle-
regiments do march at the slope, but only
“But that's my Wrist-Watch you're holding!"
on the command “March at Ease,” when
the rifles are brought up from the trail.
“X.S.”: Something unique in Victorian
law is a bill brought down by Health
Minister Barry. Under the present law
a person cannot will portion of his body ;
after his death the whole of it belongs to
his next-of-kin. Under the new bill a
person can give written authority for
his eyes to go to any eye-bank for use
after his death or, alternatively, a rela-
tive can give permission. This removes
the chief obstacle to the setting-up of an
eye-bank.
+♦♦
“Kerba”: I was a very young appren-
tice when I heard my boss .advise a fellow-
builder who had to interview an architect
on an important matter; “Go home and
put a tie on.” It brought forth the expos-
tulation: “If he doesn’t like me like
this he can” “I wasn’t thinking about
him,” the boss replied quietly. “It was
you. Put a tie on, man, and meet him on
equal terms.” Over the years I’ve found
there is something psychological about
having a tie on at the right moment. That
was why I felt so darned sorry for the
unknown poor coot who put on a certain
colorful, but not gaudy, tie recently. I
found it gracefully spread out on the
footpath. Give me the stolid, old-fash-
ioned neck-tie; it’ll never leave a bloke
in such a fix that he’d finger his tie ner-
vously, but can’t and if he could he
wouldn’t have any cause to. Which con-
fusion merely means that it was a patent
clip-on tie that I found, and I wonder
how and where the owner discovered it
was missing,
*X* *X*
NIGHT GLIDE
wm JT HIS one’s about gliding; about
/ Australia’s first night-glider flight.
t j There must be guardian angels—
it was Freddie who had the stick-
Irish-linen-and-wire contraption strapped
to his bottom.
It took us six months to make this
glider in a Coogee (Sydney) garage. In
its wing were 40 ribs. Like most of us,
I’ve often been pressed into the ground
like a thumb-tack. In each rib were
God knows how many tacks which had
to be pressed in by thumb; mustn’t
injure the spruce, old boy. Having estab-
lished the fact, in a line-shooting fashion,
that these gimmicks are hard to make,
we’ll get on with the night glide.
We used Macarthur-Onslow’s Mac-
quarie Grove ’drome by Camden.
J We gliding cranks owe a debt of grati-
tude, to coin a cliche, to the Macarthur-
Onslow brothers. There were three of
them there then, Edward, Denzil and
Andrew. All airmen, and, in their spare
time, dairy-hands. Denzil gained fame
and a D.S.O. by taking Italian towns in
Libya single-handed. Andrew was killed
during war-time flying instruction. Ted,
when Brigadier Whitehead rose in the
Army hierarchy, commanded the 2/2nd
machine-gun battalion in the desert. The
“two-and-tuppennies.”
And do you think we could ever kid
any one of these three courageous
characters on to our glider? No. They
knew too much about aerodynamics,
A Chandler chassis pulled the glider on
900 ft. of cable. When you felt the
machine’s wings bite the air you, in your
exposed uncockpitted position, pulled the
stick back and the machine shot up at a
crazy angle like a kite. When the beetle-
sized Chandler appeared behind your
rudder-bar you unhooked. Now you
know how it works.
TT was around 1937; a cold, black,
± winter night. Around a fireplace in
Camden’s Plough and Harrow pub we
were drinking beer and getting all
courageous.
I got one of my awful bright ideas. I
said “Why don’t we fly at night? Air’s
colder, denser, more lift —stay up
longer.”
Bill Doktor said “It’s too late now,
Freddie, we’ll do it tomorrow night.”
TT was another bleak, jet-black night.
The cable was fixed to Chandler and
glider and I said “Who’s the bunny?”
Bill said “You.”
Naturally I said “Why pick on me?”
“Your idea,” said someone.
There was no way of dodging it. I
asked ’em to shine headlamps near the
hangars for orientation. I was given a
big torch to see the ground with on
arrival. Strapped on, I waved the torch,
felt the cable tauten, and we were
racing.
The b— —s on the ground were so
intrigued they forgot to shine the head-
lights.
When the Chandler’s red exhaust-
flame, 900 ft. below, crept behind the
rudder-bar I unhooked. And there I
was, folks, don’t hit me, torch in hand,
no instruments and no composure. Day
gliding you just kept about a 40-mile
breeze on your face, so the first thing
to do on this nocturnal occasion was get
that there.
TyOSE-down and keeping the wind con-
stant, I gave her a bit of left rudder
and stick and sank in a spiral glide;
mustn’t lose the ’drome. Pointing the
torch down, I saw the tops of gum-trees,
clear ground, gum-trees, ground and then
a grassy patch approaching at a most
alarming angle.
The breeze on the phiz hadn’t
strengthened, so I knew I wasn’t diving.
It was simply that slope at the north-
west corner of the ’drome. There was
a split-second rustle of grass on the land-
ing-skid and the glider hit and bounced.
The torch flew out of my palsied hand
and fell in the grass.
With that glad-to-be-alive feeling, and
I hope the aperient-copywriters read this,
I unstrapped, walked to where the torch
was glowing in the grass, picked it up
and waved it.
They did switch on their headlamps
then; and raced full-bore across the
’drome towards me; terribly concerned,
of course, about the glider. They almost
trampled me to death in their haste to
examine kingpost, struts, wing and
empennage.
I said “Take it easy; it’s not bent.
Next gent., please.”
Bill said “Aw, no rush. We’ll give her
another burl tomorrow night, eh?”
FREDDIE.
THIS MAY HURT A LITTLE
“According to a Swedish anthropologist, it
is the dental equipment of apes such as the
gorilla and the gibbon which lends strongest
conviction to the claim that we and they share
a common ancestry.”
Man sprang from the apes, some aver,
And to bolster their claim will refer
To one common thing racial:
The cranio-facial
Resemblances—and they occur.
And whilst it’s admitted that man
Is the vainer regarding his pan,
The Theory Darwinian
Ignores the opinion
An ape might express—if he can!
Some people are proud as can be
Of their genealogical tree.
Their clay could be minted;
Their gore’s so blue-tinted.
And painful to quite a degree
They find, to be told that a monk
They once may have had for an unc’.
A simian’s mouth-crockery
Like theirs ? Oh, what mockery !
What sheer, unsupportable hunk I
Circus apes you’ve seen riding a bike,
Making noises in front of a mike,
A ball they’ll be throwing.
And gen’rally showing
How much we and they are alike.
But to see how close really we are
{This must give some humans a jar)
Please observe, not their mental
Equipment, but dental —
The same way they grip a cigar.
The gorilla, like us, heats his chest
When he gets pretty wild, or distressed.
He’ll bestow on his missus
The same loving kisses.
And even drink beer with the best.
Such facts we can never escape.
We’re also of much the same shape.
But our molars and grinders
Are strongest reminders
We're very much kin to the ape.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
The Hot-dog man
Every night, alone in the street,
He taps the pavement with his feet
Or hums, deep down, some tune he
knows.
Rubs at his chin, or else his nose
And, so much done, changes his
stand ;
Moves it a foot ; next, warms his
hand ;
Then leans against the post, so he
Can feel it there, for company.
Like a large bird with head a-cock
He looks to see if the town-clock
Is fast, as it was yesterday ;
Then turns around the other way
Towards the station, just to see
If it’s where it ought to be ;
And as the big clock thunders ten
Turns round and looks at it again.
Brisk now ; puts six rolls in a row
Instead of four—to make things go—
And moves the basket to one side ;
Looks at it, and, not satisfied,
Moves it a bit more to the right ;
Again makes sure the clock’s in sight.
And rubs his nose and not his chin,
And hums again, to fill time in.
Time drags on its steady course ;
He sees to his tomato-sauce.
Puts bottles here, then puts them
there,
Handling each bottle with great care ;
Looks at the six rolls in a row,
Sees that his stove gives out a glow,
Then makes a change—artistically :
Puts the six rolls in rows of three.
All set again, he lifts an eye.
Notes that the station’s still close by,
Then moves his basket to the left ;
Counts all his rolls—in case of theft—
And also all the cash he’s got ;
Moves the stand back to its old spot ;
Again, with slow and rhythmic beat,
Taps on the pavement with his feet.
Each night he stands in the same
place,
Still looks up at the town-clock’s face,
Moves his stand to the left, then
right,
Moves bottles in and out of light,
Rubs at his chin and nose as well,
Re-counts the hot-dogs left to sell.
And, every while, philosophically,
Leans on the post, for company.
VICTORIA,
JAMES HACKSTON.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Changi boarders will remember Harold
Burfield Taylor, that lofty, frosty-pated,
brown-eyed bloke (brigadier, too) who
organised the morale-saving Changi Uni-
vesity. “Chancellor of Changi” they
called him—qualified for the professorial
title through degree of D.Sc., and letters
of F.R.1.C., F.R.A.C.1.; for his geo-
graphical position through having com-
manded the 22nd Infantry Brigade down
through Malaya and at the final stand on
Singapore Island, After Changi, Formosa
and Manchuria —already owning M.C.
and Bar, won in War I France —the brig,
returned to Sydney, and to the post of
Government Analyst in the Department
of Public Health. Here, with the public
of N.S.W. his unwitting patients, he car-
ried out a vast number of analyses each
year, from the protective analysis of food,
water, drinks, to checking on specks of
duco from a hit-run car and a bloodied
strand of hair adhering to a blunt instru-
ment. Now, a bit past 64, after 45 years
of scientific probing, he retires to analys-
ing rock-fishing and golf-cards.
• •
Retiring from the Melbourne force,
First-Constable Tom Cunningham, the
first policeman in the world to collect
evidence of traffic offences with a camera
mounted on his car-bonnet. He was so
astonishingly successful at the first go
that he became the terror of Sunday
speed-hogs. An anonymous cop will
take his place, while Cunningham will
devote his camera-eye to the business of
collecting pictorial evidence for insurance
cos. and private investigators.
KENNETH MORRIS, Tobruk
Rodent and new leader of the Libs
in Queensland, captured by Prior
when Morris was on his way up to
look over the N.S.W. Assembly.
“Rothjay”; Ask any station housewife
round the Gulf of Carpentaria north of
Croydon her pin-up airman and you’ll
get Maurie Bonney, 30-year-old skipper
of A.N.A.’s DC3 which leaves Cairns
every Thursday for two days on the
“station run,” taking supplies to the big
isolated cattle-stations which once de-
pended on ship-mail or Cobb and Co.
coaches for their comforts. Bonney (130
station-runs in his log-book) learned to
fly with the War II R.A.A.F. on the
American Courier service from Australia
to south-west Pacific bases; thereby
gaining that experience of landing in out-
of-the-way places which he finds so useful
today. One of the first Australian trans-
port airmen to fly over New Guinea’s
Owen Stanley Ranges at night, he fre-
quently landed in an unarmed Dakota
less than a mile from the Japanese lines,
carrying supplies, his only defence a .38
revolver. Now he transports anything
from a Binghi stockman to a bottle of
rare perfume.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Some little-known
facts about Jack White, discoverer of
Rum Jungle, came to light during the
visit for the official opening, although
White himself, a tall, rangy bushman,
was missing from the ceremony. When
the Government cheque for £25,000 for
the reward was originally posted it was
several weeks before White received it,
being typically casual about picking up
his mail. His first reaction to sudden
wealth was to go into town and load up
a big truck with toys. These he took
out quietly to the children of a near-by
abo. settlement.
Back home in Perth after a recruiting
trip to the U.K. (bag—Seven clerics to
fill pulpits in Westralia), R. W. H. Moline,
Anglican Archbishop of Perth since 1947.
In War I an officer of the Rifle Brigade,
and later the Machine Gun Corps, he
won M.C. for outstanding services while
p.o.w. in 1918, which included impairing
his own health by sharing his meagre
rations with weaker comrades. He was
ordained after demob.
• •
“W.E.F.”: The other day I picked up
in a Sydney second-hand bookshop a
tattered scrapbook containing reproduc-
tions of humorous drawings done by
Harry J. Weston for The Bulletin.
Now in his 83rd year, Harry must be
about the oldest living artist connected
with The Bulletin. Born in Hobart, he
worked in an architect’s office in Laun-
ceston before taking up commercial art
on the mainland. With Blamire Young
and Lionel Lindsay, Weston was one of
the pioneers of artistic posters in Aus-
tralia. Sixty years ago Blamire Young
made his first trip abroad and became
associated with James Pryde and William
Nicholson, who, as the Beggarstaff
Brothers, revolutionised the poster-art
in England. On his return, Blamire, with
Harry and Lionel, formed a co-operative
company in Melbourne for the produc-
tion of posters. Who now remembers
Young’s posters for Empire cocoa, or
Weston’s for Boomerang brandy?
These early posters attracted so much
attention that Melbourne “Argus”
devoted a leading article to them.
“There was a strange sense of un-
reality about the Art life of those days,”
said Harry in later years. “It was after
the land-boom had burst; and on the
rare occasions you received a cheque,
you rushed to the bank feeling certain
it would be stopped. Living, however,
was wonderfully cheap.” Harry belonged
to that wild artists’ club, the Prehistoric
Order of Cannibals, and lived a carefree,
exciting life during that period.
Afterwards he settled in Sydney, con-
ducted his own commercial-art business,
exhibited with the Society of Artists for
some years, and did a lot of work for
The Bulletin. A genial, good-natured
fellow, he is a mine of information on
old-time Australian writers and artists.
• •
In Canberra as first military attache
to the Burmese Legation, Major Aye
Ngwe fought the Japs with the Burmese
underground, and later was a guerrilla
leader, in War 11. Part of his work in
Australia will be supervising the training
of 25 Burmese officers, now attached to
units of the Australian Regular Army.
• •
Norma Bull, the Melbourne artist, has
revived memories of Joseph Conrad.
While in Hobart she found the hull of
the old Otago, a ship that Conrad sailed
in, moored up the Derwent, and paddled
three miles up the river in a canoe to do
a painting of it. She presented the picture
to the Honorable Company of Master
Mariners in London and that ancient
body thinks so highly of it, or of Conrad,
that it has hung it above the wheel of the
Otago in the museum at the company’s
headquarters in the sloop Wellington,
moored on the Thames in the heart of
the Great Smoke. Poet Laureate John
Masefield also has a copy.
• •
One good thing which came out of
World War II was the mutual respect
between Navy and Merchant Navy,
cemented solidly in Atlantic convoys and
off landing-beaches. Captain I. E. G,
Goldsworthy, commodore of the Orient
Line, is typical of the men in high com-
mand who, raised under the wider toler-
ance of the Red Duster, moved in
smoothly to the discipline of the White
Ensign. At sea almost continuously
since, at 15, he reefed canvas in a barque,
Goldsworthy was in a minesweeping
flotilla with the Grand Fleet in War I,
and after it served in pretty well every
ship in the Orient Line. When France
fell in 1940, Goldsworthy was staff-com-
mander in Oronsay; she headed for St.
Nazaire to embark hard-pressed troops.
The Luftwaffe struck. A bomb wrecked
her chart-room —all navigational facilities
and communications; Cunarder Lancas-
tria went down near by; Oronsay, jam-
packed, picked up whom she could and
made her escape, still under air-attack.
That same year Goldsworthy rejoined
his old Navy, commander, later captain,
R.N.R. For the rest of the war he com-
modored Atlantic convoys, experiencing
(as he was mainly with big, important
convoys) more than his share of savagery.
Gaining his captaincy in the Orient Line
after the war, he has since commanded
six of the line’s liners; and now, after
45 years saltwatering, has swallowed the
anchor.
• •
Retiring after 49 years of public
service, L. G. Wilson, chief clerk of the
Treasury in Melbourne and private sec-
retary to a long line of Victorian Pre-
miers, including Sir Alexander Peacock,
Sir Harry Lawson and Sir William
McPherson. He started in life as a junior
teacher in the Education Department at
4s. 6d. a week. Alma Mater —
Boomahnoomoonah State School.
• •
A. J. Reid prepared Westralia’s claim
for financial assistance from the Com-
monwealth in 1933 ; it’s appropriate he
should now have been appointed a mem-
ber of the Commonwealth Grants Com-
mission. He brings to the job wide know-
ledge of his State’s requirements, amassed
over 40-odd years, and taking in jobs like
Deputy Registrar-General, Deputy Under-
Treasurer from 1931 to 1938, and Under-
Treasurer for the past 16 years; an ex-
officio seat on the University Senate,
chairman of the State Electricity Com-
mission, chairman of the Workers’ Homes
Board, member of the board of manage-
ment of Wundowie Charcoal Industries
and of the Royal Perth Hospital, and
Government - nominated director of
Chamberlain Industries. A robust 65,
he has already had more than a nodding
acquaintance with the Grants Commis-
sion, having attended all its meetings to
date, as well as many Premiers’ confer-
ences.
• •
Some years back Commander Colin
Little, R.A.N., retired from the service
through lack of work for his specialised
experience, taking into retirement as
much know-how of marine surveying as
any man in Australia. Whereupon the
Pakistan Government grabbed him, and
gained an officer who had been charting
since 1925 ; had been in charge of the
Huon River (Tas.) survey, and later of
the Barrier Reef ; commanded the Navy’s
hydrographic branch, and commanded a
sizeable slice of the whole survey of
the s.-w. Pacific area from New Guinea
to the Philippines in War 11, charting and
sounding harbors often under fire from
an enemy who knew what the little
survey-vessels were harbingers of. In
Pakistan Little had the job of selecting
a site for an alternative jute-port to Cal-
cutta, that port having been cut off from
the East Bengal trade by the 1947 parti-
tion. He selected Chelma, 60 miles up
the Pussar River, extensively surveyed
and buoyed the area, and now reports
that the erstwhile village is handling close
on half a million tons of cargo a year.
Now back in Melbourne, intent on retir-
ing for good this time.
• •
The learned-looking forehead and
general alertness Coventrated hereunder
are the sole property of Alec Ramsay,
sometime schoolie and university lecturer
who now, as general-manager of the
South Australian Housing Trust,
administers the building of 18 houses a
day. Educated to statistical methods,
when preparations for a war-economy
HOUSER
called for experts in the subject he was
taken from Adelaide High School and
loaned to various Commonwealth
authorities to work on statistical estimates.
The statistics of his housing-trust make
pretty good reading—comparatively free
from political control, the South Aus-
tralian body has so far put up some
20,000 homes. Ramsay became g.-m. in
1949 ; 39 himself.
L. R. B. Powell (“B.” being for
“Baden”) becomes Queensland’s Direc-
tor of Secondary Education, succeeding
John Hill, under whom he learnt his
early science and maths at Rockhamp-
ton Grammar School. On the new
head-dominie’s report card —in less than
10 years rose from assistant-teacher at
Gympie High to Director of Secondary
Schools; has taught, in between, at
EDUCATOR
three North Queensland schools, has head-
mastered four others, from Cairns in the
north, south to Warwick on the Downs;
showed promise early when he won a
scholarship to Queensland University,
emerging B.Sc, in 1922; since 1951 prin-
cipal of the Central Training Colege;
out-of-school interest. Masonry; age
54.
• •
Of much all-round administrative
experience, H. W. Byfield becomes Under-
Treasurer, after 47 years in the Westralian
Public Service. Started in the Water
Supply Department in 1907 ; transferred
to the Treasury in 1927; has been a
commissioner of the Rural and Industries
Bank and is still a commissioner of the
Fremantle Harbor Trust, Also had a big
say in the management of the W.A. Meat
Export Works, which the Westralian
Government acquired 12 years back. A
competent spare-time carpenter.
• •
Major David Auldjo Jamieson, son of
Sir Archibald Jamieson and governor of
the Australian Agricultural Co., chair-
man and managing-director of Peel River
Land and Mineral Co., has joined the
London board of advice of the National
Bank of Australasia, In 1944, with the
Royal Norfolk Regiment, he won the
Victoria Cross.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Mullewa (W.A.) at 80, William Reginald
Fremlin, retired pastoralist, for long recognised
as one of Westralia’s leading sheepbreeders. In
his time he was general-manager of a group of
stations, and afterwards controller of a number
of properties which carried 40,000 sheep and
sent from 1200 to 1400 bales a year to the
London market.
In Townsville (Q.), Captain Henry Victor
Hudson, 0.8. E., R.N. (Retd.), who had con-
siderable service in the Australian Navy in
War 11. On retirement from the R.N., just
before 1939, he bought a yacht, Ronda, in
which he sailed round the world. In Australia
on the outbreak, Hudson joined the R.A.N.,
and at one stage had the/Westralia; mostly he
was commodore of convoys. On demob, he
resumed his large-scale yachting and bought the
Palmosa in Southampton. * His last voyage
brought him to Townsville via Panama, the
voyage from the canal to a landfall in the
Pacific Islands being 47 days. Bom on Trafalgar
Day, he was 71 when he went.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 66, Captain Duncan
Cameron Macdonald, master mariner. He hew
the sailing-ship record between ’Frisco and
Auckland in 1920 in the three-masted schooner
Northern Chief, was in the hunt for Von
Luckner in 1917 on the schooner Rira, and once
in a 12ft. open boat (1923) sailed the 600-mile
ocean stretch between Nuie and Samoa in m
days.
At Collie (W.A.), at 78, James McVee, former
Government Inspector of Mines, with the Collie
coalfield for more than 40 years. A Scot who
had worked underground in N.S.W. before he
shifted to Collie as colliery-manager, he haa
been inspector for years when he retired m
1939.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 70, John Linton,
known throughout New Zealand for his foster-
ing and judging of sheep. A Scot who crossed to
the Dominion as stud-shepherd at Lincoln Agri-
cultural College, Canterbury, in the 22 years
be put in there he built up flocks that ma
their mark at shows throughout both Islands.
He left the college in 1928 to manage Holme
Station and develop fine bjeeds.
In Perth, at 82, Martin Francis Darcey,
retired schoolmaster who shifted Tasmama-
Westralia in 1896, to spend 40 years m be
Education Department there. One ot «
founders erf the W.A. State School Te
Union, he was once bowls champion or
Westralia.


NOT HIS DAY


ABORIGINALITIES
A LL through the winter the currawongs
in our paddock conducted an avian
circus. Daylight drew a babel of
whistles, wails, whoops and squawks,
together with endless variations of the
call from which this precocious fowl is
said to derive his vernacular name; and
by the time the sun showed up they were
diving, wheeling, chasing and skirmishing
over, under and through the trees, and
were not above pulling the leg of the old
magpie who roosts near by and thinks I
cultivate my vegetable-garden just for him.
Frosty mornings brought the best per-
formances, and the sight and sound of
these pied clowns was some compensa-
tion for blue fingers. Lately, however,
the large party has broken up into pairs,
and their vocabulary is altogether dif-
ferent. There are soft mutterings, coy
squeaks, swaggering solos and hesitant
responses, much planning and discussion
involving some disagreement. At first this
was in tones of mutual consideration for
the other point of view, but that stage
didn’t last long and now you can detect
the huffy rebuke, the nagging repetition,
and a note that sounds horribly like “Sez
you! ” Watching currawongs in the flock.
"Pretty soon he'll have discovered what ALL the buttons are for.”
I was never able to tell which were the
females; lately, listening to the voices,
I think I know. —“Wippegong.”
* * * *
“R.E.”: He bought a block of scrub
in the hills, stuff that the locals wouldn’t
have taken as a gift, steep enough to
make a mountain-goat drop into low
gear. Feeling sorry for him, a few tried,
tactfully, to point out that it was a bad
buy, but he wasn’t the sort who’d be told.
He built a weekend shack and laboriously
cleared and dug about a quarter-acre,
in which he sowed spuds, minus super,,
out of season and planted haphazardly.
Then he disappeared for several months.
The spuds came up, so did the bracken
• and the heath. The regular growers, who
planted in season and cultivated assidu-
ously, lost the main, part of their crop
through the grub; he dug a bumper
crop. Nature will have her little joke.
* « * *
“Quo Vadis”: A boundary-rider on
Maneroo station, near Longreach (C.Q.),
found eight dingo-pups in a burrow. His
bonanza was worth £l6B (£2O a head
from the station syndicate and £1 a head
Government bonus). Previously, on Mt.
Victoria, an adjoining property, 11 pups
were discovered, and their finder col-
lected £231. The bonuses paid by the
stations’ syndicate make it profitable to
seek out these pests. With the Govern-
ment bonus as the only incentive, many
would not go to the bother of searching
for and destroying the jingoes and their
progeny.
* * * *
“In the ACT”: News that Ceylon
magpies, escaped from a ship in port,
were being hunted around Perth was a
reminder that last year there were 554
ships in which ships’ pets, including
dogs, cats, monkeys and birds, were
controlled to prevent unauthorised
landings with the risk of introducing
animal diseases. Imports of animals,
under strict quarantine check, included
77 cattle, 68 horses, 206 dogs, 25 cats and
six goats from the U.K. and 27 cattle
from U.S. Zoos and circuses imported
224 “wild and undomesticated animals.”
♦ * * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: In Victoria these
days one has to go a long way to find
a “dream” fishing-spot. Recently at
Mallacoota Inlet, 340 miles east of Mel-
bourne, we couldn’t hook a fish—fisher-
men are allowed unrestricted netting
there now—so we fought our way 22
miles through bush to lonely, uninhabited
Wingan Inlet near Rame Head, only to
find that the place had been poached by
trawlermen, though it is still full of
oysters and seals. To vary our meals we
had to trudge miles along an ocean
coastline and try the sand-barred river-
mouth. At Red River we struck the
jackpot. Using only old salted white-
bait, each time we threw in a 31b. bream
struck, and, as we hauled him in, he was
escorted by three or four of his mates.
Any day, anyhow, and any time, two of
us could land 50 fish an hour there, but
with no horses left at Mallacoota we’re
not frightened of that spot being fished
out. The only way you can get there is
by breaking a track through scrub,
walking ocean beaches and rock-hopping,
* * ♦■ *
“H.A.L.”: Rifle-calibres do seem con-
trary to the laws of mathematics
(B. 15/9/’54), but those apparently
redundant naughts on the end aren’t
meaningless. For example, the .380
cartridge—but not the bullet—is larger
than the .38. My late father discovered
this back in 1890. Having learned not
to have rifle and revolver of different
calibres, he bought both to take .38
cartridges. On a trip to Perth for stores
he found that .38 calibre was out of
stock, but there was plenty of .380 stuff,
He thought they must be the same, so
bought them. A few weeks later, pro-
specting out beyond the headwaters of
the Murchison, he found the new car-
fridges to be oversize. Faced with no
means of shooting game for the pot, and
“She go to Rum Jungle an' come back with fur coat, huh?”
some truculent Myall aborigines in the
area, he rigged up his tiny portable forge,
made a reamer from an old gad and
patiently enlarged both rifle- and revolver-
chambers to take the bigger cartridges.
I had that old Smith and Wesson revolver
with the reamed-out chambers until it
was called in by the Army in 1940. But
shotgun-gauges work on an entirely dif-
ferent system. The 12-gauge, for example,
has a barrel of a size to make a neat fit
for a lead ball, 12 of which weigh a
pound ; 16-gauge means 16 to the pound,
and so on. The Continental system of
measuring rifle- and pistol-calibres in
millimetres is much better.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: If rumor’s right, the
Malays who visited Australia’s northern
coasts 200 or 300 years ago left something
a lot more valuable than the pohon-pine
(B. 22/9/’54). At one of their favorite
waterifig-places on the nor’-west coast —
somewhere between King Sound and
Cape Bougainville—they planted a grove
of ebony-trees in which there’s a fortune
for the man who finds it. Ebony is per-
haps the most valuable wood in the
world for the fine cabinet-
making trade, inlay and mar-
quetry-work ; only the dense
black heart - wood is used,
generally as a veneer, and the
world’s known sources today
seldom yield a stick more than
a couple of inches thick. Yet
the grove in the Kimberley
creek, when it was last found
some time in the 1890’s, was
reported to consist of scores of
trees, tall and well-grown, and
up to a couple of feet in
diameter. Its discoverers in
those days attempted to get it
out, but their first and only
attempt came to an untimely end
under the spears of the local
natives. The two white men
who survived were never able to
get finance for a second try;
they kept its exact location a
secret which died with them.
Seems to me that an aerial sur-
vey would have a good chance of
locating the spot, as the ebony-
trees would be markedly differ-
ent from the local shrubbery,
and as for the natives —well, in
these enlightened days they’d
probably clamor to be put on the pay-
roll.
♦ * * ♦
“Sackfair”: The auctioneer who was
going to put the poultry-farm and con-
tents under the hammer was arranging
the stuff in lots and had come to a pile
of backyard “jewellery”: rusty hinges,
nuts and bolts, a handleless trowel,
badly-burred wedges, a broken-handled
maul, and split-links, pieces of chain,
etc. Old Leatherlungs was delighted,
“Dig us up a couple of wooden boxes,”
he requested, and when they arrived,
piled the junk in. From the tool-kit, how-
ever, he took a pair of snips, a pair of
pliers and a couple of chisels. He divided
them between the two boxes and stirred
up the contents. “Wouldn’t it be better
to auction the decent things separately?”
I asked. “Not on your life!” came the
confident reply. “They’ll pay more for
these ‘jumble-boxes’ than for the rest of
ŵ
S.4E.
RANGE CAMP
Last night I camped between two pines, up high,
After a day of fruitless search; the sky
Cloudless and clear at sunset, and the night
Falling with swiftness, cool and clean and sweet.
Across the gorge westward the sheer cliff rose,
Its scarred face silvered by the soft starlight,
Like a fine filmy veil,
Hiding the tale
Of harshness; darkness washed about its feet,
Where the wild scrub and tangled brushwood
grows.
The camp-fire dwindled, died, as long I lay.
And watched Orion set;
Felt quiet night gestating a new day,
And would forget—
And could not —and, too much remembering,
slept
In hopeless unfulfilment of the planned.
I woke ere dawn, chill ’neath the skies that
wept
The heavy mountain dew;
Felt the air stir expectantly, and knew
That day was nigh.
An early jackass tried a “Ha, ha, ho,”
And fell abruptly, with celerity
To silence, re-established quietness,
As if abashed at his temerity
In prematurely thus announcing day:
An owl, belated on its homeward way,
Mournfully “Hoo, hoo, hoo’ed” from tree to
tree,
Eerily, low,
Its endless plaint fading to nothingness
In the near hillside’s lancewood wilderness.
Faintly the bom day raised a pallid hand
Above the range, and with new day, new hope,
Long lost, long sought,
Awakened in my heart, and came to stay.
The hobbled horse called gently down the slope,
As if in acquiescence with my thought
And eagerness to try a new essay.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


COME old-time builders were as dic-
tatorial as Christian Dior on that sub-
ject of “apron or overalls,” mentioned
in the story “Ah, There, Pythagoras”
(B. 1/9/’54). A carpenter-acquaintance
served his time with a well-known
Sydney building firm whose founder was
nicknamed Murphy. The lad had done
two years out on the jobs when he was
transferred to the joinery-shop. On his
first day old Murphy called him
over and demanded: “Where’s your
apron?” The boy replied that he had an
apron at home, but out on the jobs every-
one wore overalls and a naiibag instead.
“On the jobs, yes,” snapped the old
despot. “But a joiner would as soon
think of working without his pants as
without an apron. Go home and get an
apron, and you’ll be docked for the time
you’re gone.” The apprentice fairly raced
there and back, but he was duly docked
for the hour and a quarter lost. About
six months later, with Christmas very
close, the old boy stopped while passing
the lad’s bench. “Notice you always put
on a newly washed apron Monday
mornin’s,” he said gruffly. “Very com-
mendable. Here. Christmas-box.” Then
he was gone. The parcel held six
best-quality aprons.—“ Brick E.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Dune”: A few years ago, the missus
had no difficulty in gathering quite a
respectable meal of mushrooms from our
own paddocks, but of late, although
climatic conditions haven’t altered much,
nary a mushroom is to be seen. I was
moaning about this state of affairs to an
old country cobber of mine and he asked
“Any bandicoots your way?” I
admitted there were a few around. “Well,
no mushrooms.” he said. “The ’coots eat
out all the spawn.” Was he kidding me
and trying to drive me to patronise the
rapidly growing mushroom - farming
industry?
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Ginger was a quiet sort of
cove, but joined in all we had to offer
in the valley and, with the rest of us who
grew up there, seemed satisfied with what
it provided. He played a fair game of
cricket and was a good footballer, went
to most of the dances without being
glued to any particular partner, worked
steadily on his old folks’ place and looked
like owning it if he stayed there. Then
a builder came along to erect a new hall,
wanted a few local hands, and Ginger,
being slack, took a job. He saw the job
out, followed to another over the hill, and
was still with the same boss when that
worthy landed a contract in the mighty
metropolis, and Ginger was swallowed.
Ran into him when I drifted down for
the football finals, and over a noggin
asked when he’d be coming back. “I
dunno, Billy,” he confided, “didn’t mean
to be away so long. Remember those big
brown moths that come in on a summer
night? That’s me —I’m OJ£. till the
lights get me.”
* * * *
“Dicky”: Our bower-birds have moved
from the comparative privacy of a clump
of emu-bush to a bucolic tenement.
Their bower shares the ground-floor
with (on the other side of the tree) two
dogs, whilst the birds themselves share
the branches with a family of blue wrens.
The distance between old and new
residence is only about 30yds,, but it
took than some weeks to complete the
moving job. Now all their furnishings are
installed: pieces of glass, nuts, bones
and ail, together with a few new pieces.
Two things have sprung from the move:
since the new bower is nearer the home-
stead, the station noises that are already
in the birds repertoire are being
brilliantly enlarged, whilst in the
orchard, the crop of small green oranges
is steadily diminishing, since they are a
favorite decor for the bower.
“My own one's getting washed.”
“Fair Mac”: “Salmon Gums’s” ques-
tion “What softwood is heavier than a
hardwood?” (B. 18/8/’54) wasn’t rele-
vant to the subject, since we were dis-
cussing the effects of moist climates on
timbers of the same species. An applic-
able question would have been: “If
oregon-pine could be induced to grow
in Sturt’s Stony Desert, which would be
the heavier timber—it, or a pine of the
same age which had grown in the moist
mountain climate of North America?”
The American tree, of course, would not
only be much bigger, but it would also
weigh more per cubic foot. The one
grown in the desert, however, would be
much harder to cut. In other words, the
lighter timber would be the harder. And
the fact that some Australian hardwoods
weigh more per cubic foot than a cubic
foot of water (accepting “S.G.’s” figures,
which I submit apply only to green
timber) doesn’t prevent their gaining
weight by absorbing moisture. A micro-
scope will give the reason. In hardwood,
numerous open cells exist; in softwood
they don’t. For that reason timber-
experts class Australian hardwoods as
“pored” timbers. Paradoxically, balsa,
the lightest and softest in the
world, is not a softwood ; being pored,
it belongs to the hardwood family.
SEA-LULLABY
If I should go down in the Tasman Sea
Under a wreath of foam,
I want nobody to mourn for me,
For I shall be safe and home.
Oh, the sea-wind sings with a’lonely note
And the land-winds cry and whine;
The skies and the stars are loves remote,
But the sea is a mate of mine.
So I ask nobody to pray for me,
Where the altar-candles gleam,
For I shall be safe ih the arms of the sea,
And 1 want to dream and dream.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Things a Baby-minding Father Should Know
TJOW often has it happened that the
-*■* inexperienced and untutored young
father has been left alone to look after
the baby for a few hours at night, only
to have his utter helplessness starkly
demonstrated when baby sets up a pro-
tracted screeching? He suffers the din
for some lime, hoping baby will wear
himself out. But baby shows a surpris-
ing stamina which would in happier cir-
cumstances arouse in him quite a pride.
In the end he plucks the infant from his
cot, dandles him on his knee and says
“Sold to the gent, here!"
“There! There! Diddum miss Mummy,
eh?”
Far from appeasing his offspring, this
idiotic remark immediately leads to even
greater bellowings, so that, panic-stricken
at last and rendered desperate with the
fear that his child might break a blood-
vessel or have a stroke or something, he
rushes in to co-opt assistance from next-
door,
All this pother can be easily averted
by adherence to a few simple rules and
the exercise of a little imagination.
For instance, when baby starts to howl
put on a false beard, open the door of
his darkened room, shine a torch on your
face and say in a high soprano: “Desist,
I beg, from making this unseemly
racket!”
Baby will be so puzzled by the sound
of a feminine voice coming from a
bearded face that he will —theoretically,
at any rate —forget what he was howling
about and be easily induced to resume
his slumbers, or at least lie quietly while
he endeavors to nut it out. In either
case it will represent a tactical triumph
for the young father.
If this is not successful, a spot of
shock-treatment may do the trick. This
may be effected by waiting outside the
door for that pause during which baby
is taking another deep breath after a
particularly long-drawn-out ululation.
Then open it and emit a stentorian
“Shut up!” The humiliation caused by
his being out-roared for the first time
may possibly reduce him to sulky
silence.
Failing this also, a strong rubber band
slipped over baby’s head and under his
chin may be an effective dissuader. In-
ability to get his lower jaw working
resulting in a howl which is necessarily
rendered silent through no gap being
available to give it expression should
eventually cause baby to reflect philo-
sophically that no satisfaction can be
derived from such futility.
The dernier resort is to make a tape-
recording of either a riveting-machine
going full-blast in a boiler-shop, or a
set of chimes being rung from a cathedral
belfry, and play these back to him.
Should you be able still to hear his pierc-
ing wails above the din, or they are still
going when the recording is finished, it
is best to bow to the inevitable and try
to get to the bottom of the trouble.
One of the first essentials of young
fatherhood is to develop the ability to
distinguish between the various baby-
h ow l s
There is the one that reflects bad
temper : the hunger-howl; the lung-
exerciser bom of sheer ebullience; the
bellow that indicates baby has a pain ;
the one that constitutes a demand for
nappie-and-powder comfort.
As all of them will contain a note of
urgency a, very keen ear is needed to pin-
down the correct howl.
To determine if baby is howling be-
cause he is empty simply read out -to
him a palate-tickling menu—something
like oyster soup, chicken-Maryland with
the fixings, winding up with peach-Melba.
If hunger is his trouble his roars will
subside into a lot of saliva-swallowing,
clearly indicating that your recital is
making his mouth water. You may then
safely get his bottle ready.
If a cyclone is going on inside baby’s
works this will cause a pain which can
be distinguished from the others by the
fact that it goes on longer. To test if it
is wind he is suffering from drape baby
over your shoulder and belt him lightly
between his shoulder-blades. If about a
pint of sour milk cascades down your
collar you will know it was the wind.
If it is only bad temper baby will of
course be wearing a heavy frown, and
he may even be savagely attempting to
suck his toe unaware in his infantile way
of course that it is his own pedal ex-
tremity he is attempting to dismember,
In this case it is best to wait for a
temporary lull in the storm and get in
with a brief but stem lecture on the
evils which inevitably attend the possessor
of an ungovernable temper.
Sometimes it will be found that baby’s
roar, recognised as one imperiously de-
manding sustenance, will develop in
intensity if the bottle is not forth-
coming instanter; also, if the hole in the
teat is too small for him to be able to
guzzle the milk with his usual celerity,
This will mean a longer spell of vigilance
for father, who will thus be prevented
from continuing with the darning of his
socks and such other chores as may have
been set for him before his wife left
for the night out.
Sometimes, too, baby will get half-way
through his bottle and evince no further
interest in it except as something to play
with. You push it back into his face and
order him firmly to finish his feed, but he
hoists the flag of mutiny by deliberately
spitting out the teat.
Either of these incidents calls for quick
remedial measures. Easily the most
effective is to snatch the bottle away.
This will lead to a fresh outburst of
howling which can quickly be turned to
advantage. Simply pour the remaining
milk into a jug, draw some up into a
syringe and when baby opens his mouth
to start another howl squirt it in. Soon
he will be full and happy, a condition
which, as you know from your own
experience, is conducive to sleep.
Care in napkin-changing will ensure
more amiable relations on both sides.
The folding of the napkin is especially
important—it must be neither too large
nor too small. I know one father who
folded it too large, and when he gathered
the corners in preparatory to putting the
safety-pin through he noticed his infant
'had gone blue in the face. He found,
just in time, that the top of the napkin
was across the baby’s throat and as he
pulled it tight it cut off its breathing.
On the other hand, if the nappie is
folded too much, making it like the
trunks of a Bikini swimsuit, baby, for
the vital purpose of a napkin, may as
well not have one on at all.
To avoid that heart-searing roar
which proclaims that the point of the
safety-pin has gone into the wrong place,
it is best to bore a hole through the
central confluence where the three points
of the nappie are drawn together and
put a bolt through. Then screw on the
nut and you have a foolproof and per-
fectly safe fastener.
The question of what to give baby to
play with when he expresses dissatisfac-
tion with his rattle by continually toss-
ing it out of the cot calls for some
thought. An old cut-throat razor should
never be given him unless it is very blunt.
Scissors, too, should not be allowed in
case he hurls them away from him and
they go through the mirror.
A penknife will hold his interest, and
his tiny fingers won’t have sufficient
strength to open the blades. There is,
however, the danger that he may swallow
it. To eliminate worry on this score, tie
a string to it, the other end of the string
being pinned securely to his singlet.
Then, if he does gulp it down it may
easily be hauled back.
Bo.


CONSOLIDATED FINANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 21st October, 1935.)
Registered Office: 300 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£S,OOO,OOO
ISSUE OF
300,000 £1
CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE
SHARES
AT PAR
%
ISSUE NOW OPEN
WALTER BRUCE RAINSFORD,
7 Bent Street. Lindfleld.
Chairman of Directors.
HENRY MORRISSEY.
11 Gibson Street, Waverley.
Solicitor.
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD WALTER VARVEL.
“Mornington,” Excelsior Ave.,
* Castle Hill.
Managing Director.
ELTON REGINALD GRIFFIN,
19 Carrington Ave., Bellevue Hill.
Company Director.
LAWFORD CHARLES JOHN RICHARDSON,
19 Stanhope Road, Killara.
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
(Alternate Director for Elton Reginald
Griffin).
APPLICATION FORMS
And copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained from:—
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OP' AUSTRALIA, MEMBERS OF ANY
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE and REGISTERED OFFICE OF
CONSOLIDATED FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
BANKERS TO THE CORPORATION AND FOR THE ISSUE:
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
GEORGE SCARF.
34 Kambala Rd., Bellevue Hill
Company Director.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment is £300,000.
Applications for Preference Shares of this issue will be received only on one of the forms of
application referred to and endorsed upon the printed copy of the Prospectus. This is an
abridged Prospectus only and does not comply with the provisions of Section 137 of the
Companies Act 1936 of New South Wales.
r *
H ~v
0-
%
/VI
li
TJW
-• »
v
1
m
i i
WmsrL^
V'
Tou asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes, Sir? ”
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best, BENSONandIIEDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine tobaccos . , ,
BY APPOIfS
.I2M
C Kfaen
* wu//
ŵ
London or Paris or Singapore N *” r
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore - so will he notice, on his varied Journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from London
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson & Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BENSON V HEDGES LTD ■ OLD BOND-STREET - LOHDON^W
Business. Rollery. etc.
Shares and Yield's
■pROM average-quality, longish-
term fixed-interest company
debentures the investment market
at present seems to be expecting
5£ p.c. to 6 p.c. (The local-
government rate is about 4| p.c.,
and the Government rate 4} p.c.)
Possibly front-rank investment
companies could raise money at
5 p.c., but it would be no push-
over. The return expected from
first-class pref.-shares is about
5i p.c. to 51 p.c. The up-and-
coming company needs to offer
61 p.c. to 7 p.c. to raise pref.
money now.
With these fixed-interest yields
in mind the investor in industrial
equities is prepared to accept a
little over 4 p.c. from B.H.P. and
much the same from C.S.R, and
A.C.I. ords. Tooth at 83s.
returns under 4 p.c. Insurance-
co. ords. are generally bought to
yield under 4 p.c., with the two
big New Zealand cos. around
3 p.c. (allowing for exchange).
Insurance is a long-term invest-
ment.
It is among the better-class
second-liners that some attractive
yields are to be got. Bradford
Cotton, which lifted its div, for
1953-54 to 121 p.c., returns
61 p.c. at 40s. John Mcllwraith
Industries, which had increased
net earnings but left its div. at
121 P-c., returns a little under
6 p.c. at 21s. F. J, Walker shows
6 p.c. at 255., Morison and
Bearby 6.3 p.c. at 255. 6d.,
Minster, Ltd., 5.8 p.c. at 265.,
Bruck Mills 8.2 p.c. at 30s. 6d.,
Bearing Services 6.1 p.c. at 18s.,
Australian Woollen Mills 5.7 p.c.
at 355,, R. B. Davies 5.5 p.c. at
295. (with 1953-54 accounts still
to come), Malcolm Moore 7.5
p.c. at 405., Australian Paper
Manufacturers 6 p.c. at 21s. 6d.,
Frederic Ash 5.7 p.c. at 535.,
and John McGrath Industries
5.8 p.c. at 6s. lid.
Selective study of the share-
list will still repay the effort.
Most front-liners are high
enough for the present, but the
second-liners offer better, com-
paratively secure yields and, in
some cases, prospects.
Efficient manufacturers of
essential products seem to have
a promising future. The drop
in export prices for wool and
wheat will affect the investing-
power as well as the spending-
power of sections of the com-
munity, but it will also curtail
our capacity to import, and thus
tend to maintain the demand for
locally made products.
Already import policy is being
revised, with more restriction in
prospect. This fits in with fore-
casts made here over a month
ago, when tightening credit con-
ditions were also tipped.
Because of a variety of warn-
ings, and the distraction caused
by the oil-uranium boom (which
has many Stock Exchange
punters entangled financially),
there has been no runaway
upward movement in industrial
ordinary shares, in spite of the
flush of higher dividends. As
shown previously, a number of
good-quality industrials offer
yields from 51 p.c. to over 6 p.c.,
with prospects. And many of
the more irregular (but finan-
cially sound) earners, as well as
the possibly fully-extended
consumer-credit concerns, can be
bought to yield more.
A number of this year’s higher
dividends were the result of
lower company taxation. But in
many cases companies have had
their best trading year on record.
The current year is off to a
very good start, and in some
cases company-earnings will get
the assistance of plant which, up
till now, has been only repre-
sented by additional capital (and
dividend liability).
At the same time there is
bound to be a slackening in the
demand for some products, as
well as labor and similar
problems in some industries. The
financial year 1954-55 promises
to be another busy one, but prob-
ably not so uniformly buoyant
as 1953-54.
Exmouth Gulf Oil
From L. Owen: The negative
results obtained in wells Cape
Range No. 1 and in Rough
Range No. 3 have caused a
slump of an extent as unjustified
as was the boom which followed
the strike of oil in Rough Range
No. 1 bore in November last.
The danger always exists, of
course, that the importance of
such events is exaggerated. After
all, the average newspaperman
can’t be expected to possess the
specialist knowledge essential to
correct appraisal, and he is, un-
fortunately, too often forced to
seek the help of an “expert”
whose acquaintance with the
intricacies of the search for
petroleum is far from first-hand.
Be that as it may, any
“incorrect interpretation by
radio and press,” as far as Sydney
at least is concerned, does not
appear to justify the action of the
Perth Stock Exchange in
suspending quotations on all oil
shares on September 23, unless
that organisation had access to
facts which have not been
reported.
As soon as it was recognised
that the petroleum encountered
at Rough Range had migrated
some considerable distance from
its source and showed signs of
inspissation, added to the fact
“What d ’ ye mean —'What trade-store sells THESE
lap-laps’?”
that the strike was made in close
proximity to a disconformity, it
became evident that the extent
of the sand in which it was found
was not of prime importance,
but there seems to be little doubt
that the widely circulated state-
ment to that effect was respon-
sible for leading investors to
believe that drilling at Rough
Range had passed from the
exploratory to the developmental
stage, when it should have been
realised that the search had
become a question of an intensive
study of the geological history of
the region and of exploration at
depth.
It is also time that it was
known to the investing public
that small amounts of gas and
“colors” of oil are common in
many shales which include
organic matter. Far too much
publicity is given to such occur-
rences, as the petroleum poten-
tialities of a region) are depen-
dent, as well, on a multitude of
other factors.
One danger which now faces
the search for oil in Australia is
excessive “dilution” of geological
staff. Such dilution, within
reason, is very valuable in giving
trainees experience in oilfield
mapping and deduction, but it
should never be carried to such
an extent that field parties are
sent out without even a single
member possessing adequate
experience in oil - producing
areas.
The prospects of striking oil in
Western Australia and in other
carefully selected parts of the
mainland are still too good to be
jeopardised by such action.
Mineral Ventures, N.L.
Formed in Melbourne on
August 19, 1954. Miner™ Ve™
tures, N.L., is to acquire a 149-
square-mile petroleum-prospect-
ing permit in Gippsland from
Woodside Syndicate (considera-
tion, 100,000 ss. fully-paid shares
and £6OOO in cash), and areas in
the N.T. and near Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry (Q.) “on each of
which the presence of uranium-
bearing ore has been proven.”
The vendor of these latter areas
is Northern Mines Develop-
ment, N.L., and it is to be
handed £15,000 in cash and
100.000 f.-p. shares. It has also
been granted a par option over
100.000 shares in Mineral Ven-
tures, N.L. (If the option over
the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry areas is
exercised, £15,000 is payable to
the original owners.)
Mineral Ventures, N.L., has
offered 750,000 ss. shares for
cash at par to shareholders in
Northern Mines, 60,000 shares at
par to members of the Wood-
side Syndicate, 40,000 shares at
par to directors and field staff of
Northern Mines, and 150,000
shares were taken firm by the
underwriting brokers (Leonard
G. May, Melbourne, and
Marriott and Treloar, Adelaide).
These cash issues should
ultimately produce £250,000,
which is the minimum sub-
scription for allotment. After
the first payment of 2s.
is received on the shares
a working capital of £59,000
should remain in hand, with
£150,000 uncalled in reserve.
The co.’s oil-prospecting in-
terest in Gippsland centres on
the Won Wron monocline. Dr.
V. Boutakoff, of the Victorian
Mines Department, has sug-
gested deep-drilling south of
Won Wron. Uranium-prospect-
ing will be concentrated at first
on the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry area.
Directors are M. D. Garretty,
F. G. Bums, W. J. Cadwallader,
K. W. Craig and G. B. Lean.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOIH4
OSUM-TVAft
«S s«l’
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
MEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
1
mM
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
C England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
COVENTRY CLIMAX
Industrial Engine Unit
n
4 Cyl. Petrol Engine,
governed range 2000-
2400 r.p.m. develops
approx. 12 h.p., water-
cooled with radiator and
fan, impulse magneto.
Complete with tools,
spares and instruction
book— £l2O.
We have one of these in
stock built into a portable
2in. Centrifugal pumping
unit suitable for fire-
fighting purposes or
agricultural spraying—
£lBo.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or
agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road, Newtown, Sydney. LA3597.
jFutlh ihe
For our flight from New Guinea to Manus, in
the Admiralty Islands, the day was perfect.
Here and there on the turquoise sea were patches
of reef and coral. Land was a splay of green, with
palm trees serrating the beaches.
In these waters, in this air, along this chain of
islands was the line across which the invader was
repelled from Australia.
Scenes of that conflict slipped by in the 10-hour
round-flight we took under charter from Qantas . . .
Wewak and Finschafen, where our soldiers saw hard
service; Kavieng and Rabaul, targets for our airmen
while the enemy possessed those areas . . . And
Manus Island itself.
Wrecks in Rabaul Harbour —200 of them —were
clear from the cockpit of the plane. Looking down
on them, I thought of the words of “John O’Brien,”
the Australian poet, when he wrote of “ships of
hope . . wrecked on sharp uncharted rocks of
circumstance.”
They were so like the lives and endeavours of
many men; in some cases short-lived, their functional
life at an end. While others come safely to port and
serve the purpose for which they were made.
There is so much about New Guinea that excites
the imagination, and on this flight we saw it in
magnificent sweep the great island itself, the
archipelago north and east of it.
In all of this Territory, marvels of construction
were performed in those years of redemption, between
1942 and 1945. Airfields were made almost overnight,
ports built up, installations rushed in and assembled.
The big naval and air base the Americans built
at Manus in 1943 was but one example of what was
accomplished under the urgency of war. It was costly,
but the freedom it won, the possession it ensured, are
beyond the counting in pounds and dollars.
Is there less urgency now, with events moving
as they are in the world? One sees Asia and the
Pacific in so much clearer perspective from the cockpit
of a plane above New Guinea.
Manus is just below the Equator. And there’s
where our Australian frontiers lie.
w
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The autumn financial reviews
are m gala mood after a year of
bounding prosperity for com-
merce and industry. Relatively
sneaking the year has turned
speaking, uic yea
out to be a harvest for business-
men. Their greatest fear, an
American recession, has passed
them bv Controls, except for
forden exchange and new
capital* issues, have gone Busi-
ness has been left free to enjoy
a period of expansion. , Produc-
have an ln?omes md wages.
„ , • ,
Securities have appreciated,
Much money has been spent, but
savings though largely of con-
trartiial natnrp have ako
teeSd Unemployment “
increased. unemployment
down and wages have risen more
than prices. And if the home
markets account for the greater
part of this prosperity, there are
no serious inflationary signs.
Gold reserves are up, the over-
seas balance of payments is
secure, and the gap between
imports and exports is reduced.
The one less-happy qualifica-
tion is that this prosperity is not
general, for salary-earners and
those with small fixed incomes
are excluded from the boom.
There is, too, considerable unease
among employees of the
nationalised industries. In par-
ticular, the coal situation is sorry,
for nothing but a mild winter can
avert a serious shortage. But at
least the circumstances are well-
known and considered to be
irremediable until atomic
power is with us.
Money
The investor, after years of
inhibition, has had a beanfeast.
A well-spread portfolio, however
prudent, must have gained at
least 25 per cent, in capital appre-
ciation. The “Financial Times”
index of ordinary shares, which
stood at 124.1 in August, 1953,
reached 171.6 a year later. Indus-
trial equities appreciated by
37 per cent, and commodity-
shares by 44 per cent, in the same
period. (But “stags” of late,
speculating on rumors of
mergers, have landed themselves
into trouble.)
A number of factors have con-
tributed to this advance, which
is expected to continue, although
in a quieter degree. It was long
overdue because of dividend-
limitation. It sprang naturally
from higher profits. It was
encouraged by the optimism of
chairmen’s speeches and the
material significance of their
profit-and-loss accounts. But it
was considerably enhanced by
the epidemic of “take-over bids.”
Financial conservatism can be
carried to excess, especially in
the exclusion from the balance-
sheet of substantial hidden assets
in the nature of freeholds. So,
in order to pre-empt the “take-
over” gentlemen, there has been
a general tendency towards real
values and also towards a closer
relationship between nominal
and effective share-capitals.
Money, both short- and long-
term, has become cheaper. The
bank-rate fell twice within eight
months (from 4 per cent, to
3| per cent, in September, 1953,
and to 3 per cent, last May), and
the reason was held to be one of
adaptability to monetary condi-
tions, not a fiscal manoeuvre.
The Building Societies Associa-
tion saw fit to treat it as a
temporary move, for they agreed
that a reduction in mortgage-
rates (normally 4\ per cent.)
was not called for.
A recent development has
dashed this unanimity, for the
largest of them, the Halifax
(which pays only 2} per cent.,
against the more general 2\ per
cent., on deposit accounts), has
dropped its mortgage-rate to
4 per cent. It can only be a
matter of time before the other
societies and the life-offices
follow suit by conceding a similar
j per cent, reduction.
Labor’s New Tensions
The Trades Union Congress,
with customary bluff and banter
and outspokenness, just managed
to carry the day at Brighton.
The orthodox leaders have
maintained their reputation for
no-nonsense and hard-headed-
ness. They gave a lead over
increased insurance contribu-
tions, pronounced the need for
greater industrial investment and
were even bold enough to utter
an apologia for dividends. They
reaffirmed their solid anti-Com-
munist front, refusing an invi-
tation to Moscow and snubbing
the idea of negotiation with the
World Federation of Trade
Unions.
It is, nevertheless, regarded as
both unnecessary and unfor-
tunate that the congress has for-
gotten its true function —which
is to promote the welfare of its
subscribers —and got itself up to
the neck in the dangerous waters
of foreign affairs. There are
many ways of approaching Ger-
man rearmament. Political
emotion, substantially influenced
by the far-Left, is not the
soundest of them. The majority
of 468,000 in favor of German
rearmament, out of a total card-
vote of 7,712,000, was a near
thing and was due only to the
support of the big unions.
The majority at the Labor-
party conference at Scarborough
was smaller still. A broad im-
pression of the latter’s agenda
indicated this. A mixture of
cloud-cuckoo idealism, “ban the
bomb,” powwows between East
and West, sympathy for China
and a number of resolutions
striving to “get at” the orthodox
leaders showed the mood of the
constituencies. And there were
no fewer than 58 resolutions
opposing German rearmament.
It would seem that Attlee’s
leadership is in jeopardy. He
has stayed where he is shrewdly
enough, largely by negative
tactics (“least said, soonest
mended”). But the larger issues
here are so vital that, if the
promptings of his conscience are
statesmanlike in origin, he will
have to assert himself by force-
ful and positive qualities of
leadership.
Femme Fatale
A memorable, almost defini-
tive, production of “Hedda
Gabler” at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith, is drawing the town.
Nothing has been spared. The
extensive properties and Motley’s
scenery and costumes are impec-
cably in period. Max Faber’s
adaptation is unstilted without
being colloquial. Peter Ash-
more’s direction is many-sided:
it is intellectually conceived with
deep understanding of the
psychological issues, and it is so
technically self-assured as to
smooth out some awkward
passages for the actors (Ibsen’s
veiled jokes about pregnancy, for
example, seem, to modern audi-
ences, ludicrous and arch as
baby-talk).
Peggy Ashcroft’s Hedda makes
theatrical history and underlines
her greatness. She establishes the
character at once by a twitch
of the mouth, by her strained
glance and by her tenseness of
movement. Here, indeed, is the
maladjusted woman, all bad-
temper and frustration, whose
warped strength of character
leads her, under neurotic com-
pulsion, to such a profligacy of
misdeeds. A gem of realistic
acting.
But, as with life, neurotics
may be interesting, even amusing,
on first acquaintance. They
soon become tiresome. The
play, after a tremendous first act,
slowly loses dramatic interest.
Ibsen’s thumping methods of
plot-construction and highly
charged devices for building up
suspense are, by their very crafti-
ness, embarrassingly overpower-
ing. Those ever-prescient pistols
of Colonel Gabler ; the wayward
genius, reformed but doomed to
sink back into debauchery; his
precious masterpiece which
Hedda frenziedly burns; the
deus ex machina twist when
Mrs. Elvsted produces the
original notes; and the terrifying
but long-foreseen explosion 'When
Hedda blows her brains out —
these are the stuff of melodrama.
And the production bravely—
and rightly eschews the
histrionic, throwing an immense
burden on the actors.
Perhaps the characterisation,
though beautifully defined, is
slightly out of balance. The
Schubertian husband (George
Devine) might well have been
less stupid. And the lawyer of
Micheal MacLiammoir, though
rich in panache, is not nearly
powerful enough. For Hddda’s
undoing, and the play’s climax,
depend upon his will being
stronger than hers. But the sup-
porting parts are delightful
studies. Mrs. Elvsted (Rachel
Kempson) is a lovable misfit, all
solicitation and homely anxiety,
and the feckless Lovborg of
Michael Warre is at once sensi-
tive and dynamic.
An outstanding evening, not-
withstanding.
Wealth Untold
London newsvendors still
write their own placards. The
other day most of them agreed
that “BOY INHERITS £85,000”
was worthy of notice. One man
in Oxford-street gave a sardonic
Cockney touch to his keen news-
sense by adding, underneath;
(All in Coppers).


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., 1X.8., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.H.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heifer;
W. Sydney Jones; Allan G. Potter.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B._R. Cowdery,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklet.
The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
Ltd.
TRMC.3S
The WILD CAT COLUMN
O. J. Coles & Co.
is the older and larger of the
two big and very profitable variety-
chain organisations operating in Australia.
The last five years has been a period of
spectacular growth by absorptions and
otherwise, during which Coles’s issued
capital increased by 191 p.c. (from £1.70
million to £4.95 million) and total assets
by 198 p.c. (from £4.23 million to £12.61
million), and the expansion and develop-
ment are still far from complete.
To get the crowded picture into per-
spective it is necessary to go back to
June, 1949, when the Stewart Dawson
properties (Sydney) were bought for
£859,000-odd, the deal being financed
mainly on mortgage. In October, 1950,
Selfridges, a rival chain organisation
operating mainly in Sydney and Perth,
was bought for £356,250 in scrip. Then
the Sydney Arcade was acquired at an
unstated figure—together with the
Stewart Dawson properties, it will even-
tually allow construction of a very large
store with frontages to Pitt-, King- and
George-streets, Sydney. Then, just before
the close of accounts in 1951, control of
F. and G. Stores (the old O. Gilpin busi-
ness) was bought from Foy and Gibson
(Melbourne) for £1,176,656, the money
being raised mostly on mortgage.
A period of consolidation, reorganisa-
tion and normal growth followed. F. and
G. Stores changed its name to Coles
Country Stores, Ltd., which ceased trad-
ing and became a property-holding
concern, having leased most of its 92
shops to the parent co., the balance being
sold at a profit.
To provide more working capital, etc.,
those on the register at April 9, 1954,
were offered 4,415,000 new ss. ords. at
par, three for ten, payable in full on
June 30. The issue will bring in
£1,103,750, and lift paid capital to
£4,952,156 in 150,000 £lB p.c. cum. prefs.
and 19,208,625 ords. of ss. each. On that
lot the pref. div. and 15 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £732,323, or £133,615 less
profit than was claimed last term. So not
only is the 15 p.c. div. in no danger, but
net earnings should benefit as the new
capital is put to work, and shareholders
are likely to be asked for more later on.
The market therefore prices the f.-p.
ss. ords. at 19s, to give an immediate
return of only 3.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for, say,
5.2 p.c. on his money counts on a 20 p.c.
distribution and/or other benefits. The
£1 prefs. at 30s. Bd. yield 5.2 p.c. Includ-
ing the new capital, net tangible cover is
£5 6s. 2d. prefs, and Bs. 2d. ords.
Freeholds were revalued and written-
up in the books by £1,991,262, of which
£1,363,516 now appears as a revaluation
reserve, the difference being used mainly
to reduce the book-value of shares in sub-
sidiaries (down £590,843) from cost to net-
asset value at date of purchase. The
immediate purpose of the revaluation of
freeholds seems to be connected with
mortgages; last issue of bonus-scrip was
£465,454 in 1950. Sale of scrip to
employees brought in £28,558 of share-
premiums, a profit of £4215 was realised
on sale of assets, £189,092 overprovided
for taxation in previous years was written
back to p. and 1, account, and £61,510
was written off goodwill, etc., apparently
in connection with purchase of the retail
business of Rhoades and Co., The Valley,
Brisbane. Including surplus trading
profit, reserves benefited by £1,773,058
net, lifting them to £3,015,269.
Leaving all non-recurring items, inter-
lined in the following table, out of the
reckoning, the year’s trading profit was
£166,294 stronger at £865,938, thanks
largely to a 14 p.c. increase in turnover,
which reached £28,502,425;
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.! 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£> £, £, £, £,
’5O 436,320 12,000 16 p.c.= 314,323 109,997 1,014,164
Sale assets, £5831 1,019,995
’5l 479,692 12,000 13|p.c.=428,882 43,810 1,063,805
Sale assets, £64,934 1,128,789
Added intangibles, £25,404 .. ..1,103,335
’52 469.158 12,000 11fp.c.=425,626 81,532 1,134,867
To staff funds, £27,000 .. .. 1,107,867
Sale assets, £4883 1,112,750
Added intangibles. £11,150 . . .. 1,101,600
Unexplained Increase, £2OO .. ..1,101,800
’53 699,644 12,000 15 p.c.=547,233 140,411 1,242,211
Revaluation assets, £1,363,516 .. 2,605,727
Share premiums, £28,558 .. ..2,634,285
From tax reserve, £189,192 .. .. 2,828,377
Profit sale assets, £4216 .. .. 2,827,592
Goodwill, etc. w/off, £61,510 . . 2,766,082
’54 865,938 12,000 15 p.c.=554,751 299,187 3,065,269
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 3,015,269
* After deducting goodwill (£54,000), which was
rubbed out of the books last term. f Includes
additions to freehold depreciation reserve to 1950.
Written after allowing £149,784 (down
£4419) for depreciation and £600,000
(down £28,000) for taxation, the £865,938
of profit covered the pref. div. and 23.1
p.c. on average ord. capital as against
18.8, 12.5, 14.7, 21 and 17.6 p.c. back to
1949. The div. was kept at p.c., making
average distribution over the last seven
years 14.3 p.c.
Continued growth of the undertaking
and revaluation of freeholds and shares
in subsidiaries resulted in big changes in
balance-sheet figures;
Capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Ord £3,648,219 £3,648,219 £4,321,413
Pref 150,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves .. 1,214,271 1,296,211 3,015,269
Mortgages, etc... 2,385,000 2.355,000 2,369,800
Creditors . . 848,351 1,169,810 850,031
Owing to subsids. 896,482 890,860 865,391
Employees’ funds 6,815 48,451 72,042
Tax reserve . . 414,565 688,096 600,(TOO
Final div. .. 304,018 364,822 369,841
Total .. £9,867,721 £10,610,969 £12,613,787
Freeholds .. 3,393,474* 3,516,236* 5,842,625
Leaseholds .. 238,926* 231,845* 414,529
Fittings, etc. .. 716,911 863,871 1,093,460
Shares subsids.., 1,694,346 1,630,426 1,039,583
Stocks . . . . 3,257,251 3,895,830 3,848,770
Debtors .. .. 111,415 97,581 113,260
Cash, etc. .. 375,994 821,180 261,560
Goodwill, etc... 79,404 54,000
Total .. £9,867,721 £10,610,969 £12,613,787
* After deducting unpaid balance on purchase—
£l4l,27s freeholds, £12,135 leaseholds at
June 30, 1953.
When the books closed £623,007 of the
new capital had been received, leaving
£480,743 to come. Net growth in the
book-value of freeholds was £2,326,389,
of which £747,400 represented purchase
of new properties. To help meet the
outlay, clip £319,779 off die amount
coming to sundry creditors, and add
£182,684 to leaseholds and £229,589 to
fittings, as well as carry £452,940 more
stocks, the holding of cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £559,620. The reduction
in shares in subsidiaries was due to the
adjustment already referred to. When
the books closed there was Bs. Id. (14s. sd.
at previous balance) coming to mortgagees
and sundry creditors for every £ belong-
ing to shareholders in the business, includ-
ing the new capital. The reduction in the
proportion of outside debt to share-
holders’ funds was due largely to revalua-
tion of the freeholds and introduction of
fresh capital.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
BESIDES its big brewery, near Central
Railway station, Sydney, the co.
owns about 14 p.c. of the licensed hotels
in N. S. Wales. They are mostly free-
holds, and are located approximately one
half in the Sydney-Newcastle area and the
other half in country districts. They are
operated on the tied-house system, which
is the form competition takes, there
being no price-cutting in the trade.
Expansion has been the keynote of
activities of recent years. Since 1950
£1,229,981 net has been added to the
book-value of fixed assets (brewery-
premises and -plant and hotels), £528,128
to book-debts and £310,427 to stocks ; all
of which gives the future an encouraging
look so far as earnings are concerned. To
help meet the outlay shareholders sub-
scribed £978,862 of fresh capital (£762,300)
and share-premiums (£216,562), £95,794
net was raised on mortgage and £970,931
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera being
tax and other provisions.
Those on the register at February 17
last were offered 519,750 new 16s. shares
at par, one for five —previous issues were
at premiums of 10s. a share in 1950
and Bs. a share in 1938 and 1939. Be-
cause of the high price the old shares
fetched in the market, the bonus element
for shareholders in the latest offer was
greater than previously. Issued capital
now stands at £2,494,800, of which there
was £37,835 to come when the books
closed on July 31. So an 8 p.c. div. will
call for £20,418 less profit than was
claimed last term. Furthermore, share-
holders have this comforting assurance
from the board:
Having regard to more stable conditions,
and anticipated further increase in output,
your directors, in the absence of any
unusual circumstances, look forward to
increased benefits to shareholders in the
coming year.
The market therefore prices the scrip
at 275. to .give an immediate return of
4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 5.3
p.c. should the distribution be lifted to
9 p.c. Net tangible cover is 245. 2d. per
share, and there is a large inner reserve
(unearned increment) in the brewery free-
hold alone. Those on the register have
never failed to receive a div. since the
present co. took over the business in
1902, though for the most part the rates
have been moderate, average for the last
20 years being approximately 8 p.c.
Australian output of beer for the year
to June 30 last increased by 8.5 p.c. as
against 8 p.c. for the preceding 12
months. Tooheys’ turnover also benefited
considerably from recent capital expen-
diture on improvements and extensions
to both the brewery—especially the
bottled-beer section —and hotel properties.
Two other factors contributing to the
growth of £34,052 in last term’s net earn-
ings were reduction in the rate of co.-tax
in the 1953 Budget and a steadier wage-
cost structure: —-
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 156,879 8 p.c. = 138,600 7 I q 97Ql nn9dfi9
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. \ 13 ’ 279
Share premiums, £99,512 .. .. 1,101,974
1951 -; 1 4 !’ 994 Jj- e - “ 142 ’ 066 \ 929 1,102,903
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. )
Share premiums, £62,910 .. .. 1,165,813
1952.. 80,366 4 p.c. = 77,674 2,692 1,168,505
Share premiums, £54,140 .. .. 1,222,645
1953.. 185,950 8 p.c. = 165,743 20,207 1,242,852
Staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. ..1,232,852
1954.. 220,002 8 p.e.= 176,399 43,608 1,276,455
Staff fund. £5OOO 1,271,455
The £220,002 of profit was equal to 9.9
p.c. on average capital as against 8.9,
4.1, 8.3, 9 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1949. It
was written after setting aside £120,932
(up L>8,587) for depreciation and making
ample provision for taxation and other
contingencies. Any overprovision for taxa-
tion in 1953 has been kept in the stocking.
Growth of population, spurred by im-
migration, a buoyant national income,
full employment at high wage-rates, and
movements in balance-sheet figures all
give color to the board’s anticipations
about earnings:—-
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,992,375 £2,079,000 £2,456,965
Reserves .. .. 1,168,605 1,232,853 1,271,455
Mortgage .. .. 100,836 95,794
Creditors .. .. 691,739 692,471 1,100,026
Loan from sub-
sidiary .. .. 813,084 815,956 801,320
Tax provision* .. 160,665 287,687 271,288
Staff funds .. 10,000 5,000
Final div. .. 39,559 83,160 93,239
Tolal .. . . £4,865,927 £5,301,963 £6,095.087
Brewery—
Property .. 371,575 415,872 468,849
Plant .. .. 293,207 431.481 593,413
Hotels .. .. 2,642,603 2,703,873 3.041,684
Shareholdings ~ 40,777 40,777 40,777
Stock .. .. 464,065 470,016 547,513
Debtors .. .. 856,174 1,086,822 1,260,700
Subsidiary .. 191,496 146,892 185,906
Cash, etc. .. .. 6,030 6,230 6,245
Tolal ~ .. £4,865,927 £5.301,963 £6,095,087
* Includes “provisions” for repairs, suspense items,
and contingencies.
The £377,811 of fresh share-capital
gathered last term, together with an extra
£407,555 from sundry creditors, went
mainly into hotel properties (up
£337,811), plant (up £161,932) and book-
debts (up £173,878). The general pro-
gramme of expansion is “progressing
satisfactorily,” but what additional outlay
will be needed to see it to com-
pletion isn’t mentioned. Including
tax-provision, but not the loan from the
subsidiary, there was 7s. 9d. of outside
money in ithe business for every £
belonging to shareholders.
The finance subsidiary, Tooheys Stand-
ard Securities, Ltd. —in which the public
owns the pref. capital (£750,000 5T p.c.)
and the parent 49,979 £1 ords. paid to
£12,500 —had £801,320 (down £14,636)
on loan to the parent at July 31 last.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
TX7ELL entrenched, financially and
* ’ otherwise, this big woolbroking,
pastoral - finance, merchandising and
agency business operates in N. S. Wales
and Queensland. Like others in the
trade, its earnings fluctuate mainly with
the relative influences of seasons, prices
and costs.
Seasons have been fair to good over
the last eight years, during which wool-
prices rocketed to a disturbing peak in
1950-51, fell to more rational levels in
the following year, then strengthened
moderately and eased a little during the
12 months to June 30 last, as the follow-
ing table shows:
■ N. S. Wales f Queensland
Total Value. Av. Bale. Total Value. Av. Bale.
£ £ s. d. £ £ s. d.
’49-50 107,781,932 78 3 0 46,155,258 88 9 4
’5O-51 228,404,770 180 9 4 98,244,989 177 2 3
’5l-52 105.260,547 93 18 1 48,957,421 104 15 6
’52-63 151,347,756 108 12 8 61,855,194 116 13 11
’53-54 144,795,547 101 12 5 63,423,420 110 15 7
Last season the volume of the clip
increased by 2.2 p.c. in N. S. Wales and
by 8 p.c. in Queensland, which accounts
for the divergent movement in its total
value in the two States.
The co.’s own experience was better
than average. The quantity of wool
handled and number of sheep put under
the hammer were both records:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1951 .. 267,986 231,229 24,292
1952 .. 241,249 256,510 31,057
1953 .. 286,684 338,330 37,292
1954 .. 300,206 384,335 35,664
Sales of station-produce—hides, sheep-
and rabbit-skins, tallow, etc. —showed
marked improvement, too, and the agri-
cultural - machinery department (Bris-
bane) and station-supplies section also
continued to expand.
Operating costs, though still high, were
steadier, and the tax-bill was lighter. So,
after setting aside £28,400 (up £2503) for
depreciation and something for taxation
and other contingencies, the cautious
board wrote net earnings £35,496 stronger
at £2ll,47s—that leaves out of the
reckoning £30,000 overprovided for taxa-
tion in 1953 and now added to free
reserves:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1949.. 83,183 9 p.c. = 54,000 29,183 626.434
1950.. 111,411 10 „ „ 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 125,, „ 99,231 84.696 762,541
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. •• 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,909 915.600
1953.. 176,979 10 ~ ~100,000 75,979 991,479
Tax overprovided, £30,p00 ..
1954.. 211,475 12 Jp.c.= 125,000 86,4/5 1,107,904
•After deducting goodwill (£41,983).
The £211,475 was 21.1 p.c. on capital as
against 17.5, 15.8, 23.1, 18.5 and 13.8
p.c. back to 1949. The 10 p.c. div. was
sweetened with a 2\ p.c. bonus, making
\2\ p.c. for the year. Over the last five
exceptional years net earnings averaged
£166,150, or £41,150 more than last
term’s 12£ p.c. distribution called for.
Another pleasing feature is that reserves
were heaped £107,954 higher than paid
capital at June 30 last.
Purchase of additional stores at
Pyrmont, Sydney, and improvements to
other properties added £228,990 to the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collina Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* ♦ • ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
EMPEROR GOLD
MINING CO. LTD.
VATUKOULA, FIJI
having embarked on a large pro-
gramme of expansion, have vacan-
cies for:
SURVEYORS (2)
ASSAYERS (2)
RESEARCH CHEMISTS (2)
This is an excellent opportunity
for advancement in the Mining
industry.
Liberal salary and fare allow-
ance will be paid to successful
applicants.
The climate is ideal. Good
accommodation and amenities are
available, including schools and
various recreational facilities.
Applications, accompanied by
copies of credentials, should be
addressed to—
The Personnel Officer,
Cook, Tomlins & Mirams,
360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers;
GUTHRID6E PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters/ Steam Valves,
etc.
SMCIAI
TOLLEY’S
BRANDY
HOSP^TAIt
TOLLEYS...
THE WORD
FOR BRANDY
32
SINCE 1858
**S
Consolidated Press Limited
Proprietors : Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph,
Australian Women's Weekly and A.M.
(Incorporated In New South Wales on Bth January, 1936)
Registered Office; 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of EI,SN,OOO
REGISTERED
0
MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Currency • • • TEN or FIFTEEN YEARS
(At the option of applicants , specified at time of application)
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED,
THE COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
book-value of freeholds and
£20,'767 to plant:
1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. £1,000.000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,033,462 1,149,93/
Creditors .. 3,057,418 2,624,332
Overdraft .. 474,513
Final div. .. 60,000 76,000
Total .. j £5,140,880 £5,323,782
Freeholds .. 494,810 723,800
Plant .. .. 114,917 135,684
Stocks .. .. 366,303 287,590
Advances, etc. .. 3,436,456 4,126,882
Investments and
cash .. .. 687,411 7,843
Goodwill .. 41,983 41,983
Total .. i £5,140,880 £5,323,782
* Includes £78,705 application money on
new shares in 1952.
A dry spell in western N. S.
Wales increased the already
growing financial needs of
clients, and £691,426 was added
to advances, which are now over
three times greater than the 1947
figure. To help meet the call the
co. went to its bankers for
£474,513. The reductions of
£679,568 in investments and cash
and of £433,086 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors were
due mainly to outstanding wool
transactions at the close of
accounts in 1953.
The wool industry remains the
brightest spot in the Australian
economy. The current season has
got away to a good start, it is
expected that the clip will exceed
last season’s in volume, prices,
though a little below last season’s
closing rates, are still at very
profitable levels, and there is no
threat at the moment from
accumulated world stocks of the
staple. The threat to wool from
synthetic fibres might prove less
of a menace than anticipated in
some quarters, partly because of
marriage of the two fibres in
production of new and popular
fabrics.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the outlook for the
business by pricing the f.-p. £1
shares at 455, (38s. 6d. a year
ago) to return 5.5 p.c. on a 12£
p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover is 425. Id.
Samuel Allen (Townsville)
O APID expansion, especially
v during the last five years, has
enhanced long-term prospects for
shareholders in this old-
established North Queensland
business. Since 1950 the book-
value of shares in subsidiaries,
etc., increased by £266,490, and
that of properties and plant by
£318,536, of which £133,985
represents revaluation for
mortgage purposes. To help
meet the outlay and carry more
stocks and book-debts £350,000
was added to paid capital—share-
holders put up £128,375 at par
and £221,625 was issued at
premiums totalling £101,409 in
acquisition of new interests, etc.
—and the outside debt was
increased by £447,168.
At the end of 1950 an engineer-
ing-supply and hardware busi-
ness, now trading as Wypers
(Cairns) Pty., was taken over;
later the 25-year-old farm- and
irrigation-machinery undertak-
ing of A. E. Clayton at Ayr was
acquired; a new offshoot.
Magnetic Motors Pty., was
formed to take over the parent’s
Ford motor-vehicle franchise;
another offshoot, Allen’s Invest-
ment Pty., was set up to handle
hire-purchase business for the
group. Meanwhile the parent’s
hotel interests, mainly in the
thirsty area between Cairns and
Bowen, have been strengthened,
its general merchandising
activities, including a controlling
interest in Hollimans (Towns-
ville), have continued to expand,
and so has its list of agencies, to
which has been added recently
franchises for the products of
Moffat-Virtue, Essantee Switch-
gear, Hardie Rubber and Carrier
Air Conditioning.
To help reduce the outside
debt and provide more working
capital, those on the register
(pref, and ord.) at October 1
were offered 211,875 new £1 ords.
at par, one for four. Paid
capital will thus become
£1,059,375 in 71,428 first and a
like number of second 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 916,519 ords. —the
prefs. carry a cumulative 6 p.c.,
advance with the ords. in any
distribution beyond that rate and
share in surplus assets. On that
lot an all-round 8 p.c. will call
for £84,750, or £4350 more profit
than the parent claimed last term,
but £16,154 less than combined
net earnings of parent and
subsidiaries.
At 265. the net price of the
ords., after exercising rights, etc.,
is 255. 3d., giving the rights a
theoretical value of ss. 3d. The
return at 255. 3d. is 6,3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Last reported
sales of the first and second prefs.
was at 255. 6d. and 255, respec-
tively a couple of months ago.
Net tangible cover (parent’s
figures) is 28s. lOd. per share,
pref. and ord.
Disregarding £lO,OOO trans-
ferred from tax reserve, the
improvement in the parent’s net
earnings last term was £9892:
Dividends \
Pref. Re-
Jne., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £> & &
’50..57,813 11,428 8 156,143
Revaluation assets, £133,985.. 290,128
Share premiums, £96,625 .. 386,753
’51..75,368 11,428 8 p.c.=89,882 410,811
Share premiums, £4784 .. 415,595
’52..90,762 11,428 8 p.c.=54,578 440,351
'58..70,508 11,428 8 „ ~ 56,372 448,059
From tax reserves, £lO,OOO .. 463,059
’54..80,400 11,428 8 p.c.=56,872 465,659
The £80,400 of profit was 9.4 p.c.
on the £847,500 of capital (pref.
and ord.) as against 8.3, 11, 12.2,
11.6 and 9.5 p.c. back to 1949.
The diy. was kept at an all-round
8 p.c., and has been for the last
five years.
The position, however, was
better than the parent’s figures
alone showed. Combined net
earnings of the group—the off-
shoots didn’t pass on all they
earned was £100,904 (up
£28,823).
Here is the financial position
so far as the parent’s accounts
show it:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital ~ £847,500 £847,500
Reserves ~ .. 443,059 465,659
Mortgages .. 247,400 260,956
Overdraft .. .. 232,222 284,583
Creditors and tax 415,742 589,676
Pinal div. .. 33,900 33,900
Total .. £2,219,823 £2,432,274
Properties and plant 709,760 767,726
Shares .. .. 286,429 286,429
Stocks .. . . 552,676 654,326
Book debts .. 657,207 709,985
Cash, etc. .. 13,751 13,808
Total .. £2,219,823 £2,432,274
To carry an extra £101,650 of
stocks, increase book-debts by
£52,778 and add £57,966 to pro-
perties and plant the co. went
outside for a further £189,851
last term. The contraction in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£239,004, excluding sharehold-
ings) was £55,366, due to the
outlay on fixed assets.
Noyes Bros. Amalgamation
Sir Malcolm Ritchie an-
nounces that the amalgamation
of Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd.,
and Noyes Bros, (Melbourne),
Ltd. (B. 11/8/ ’54), with which
he is in complete accord and
warmly supports, creates for him
certain conflicting interests, and
by arrangement with the share-
holders he retires from the board
of Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd.,
of which he was chairman, as
from July 1, 1954.
Sir Malcolm will continue as
chairman of Crompton Parkin-
son (Australia) Pty,, Ltd., which
is wholly a subsidiary of Cromp-
ton Parkinson, Ltd., of England,
the equal partner with Noyes
(Melbourne) in the new amalga-
mated co., and also as chairman
of British Insulated Callender’s
Cables (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., whose
headquarters are at 351 Edge-
cliff-road, Edgecliff, where he
will establish his office.
Aust. Oil Exploration, Ltd.
A.O.E. has a finger in both
the oil and uranium pies. Its
chief uranium interest is the
Mary Kathleen leases, Mt. Isa
field (Q.), where a large but
unproved tonnage of what looks
like rich uranium ore can be
mined by opencut. Samples
from the hillside, taken over
a width of 380 ft., have assayed
0.63 p.c. uranium oxide. This,
geologist J, E. Ridgway says,
indicates there is 2,300,000
tons ore available above creek
level. If in the aggregate it turns
out to average 0.63 p.c., its gross
value would be £57,500,000, an
average of £25 per ton. In the
absence of a uranium-treatment
plant being erected on the Mt.
Isa field, transport costs will be
a weighty item in exes. However,
while contract prices continue at
current rates the stuff promises
to be very profitable.
In its search for oil the co. is
drilling at Reid’s Dome (Q.),
where a recent test of the core
from 2197 ft. to 2214 ft. proved
negative. Drilling continues.
The ss. shares paid to 2s. 6d.
each are priced at 10s. 6d. in the
market.
Two new entrants into a
market which is becoming
saturated with oil and uranium
scrip are Kalgoorlie Goldfields
Petroleum, N.L., and Kimberley
Oil Syndicate, Ltd. The Kal-
goorlie co., which is offering
2,000,000 ss. shares, payable Is.
application and the balance as
required, is to take over from
Goldfields Petroleum Syndicate
two oil-prospecting permits
covering 19,500 square miles in
the Eucla Basin for 200,000 of
its own f.-p. shares. An aerial
photographic survey of part of
the area has been made; next
step will be a geological investi-
gation to determine likely drill-
ing sites. The Kimberley syndi-
cate (paid capital £25,000 in £5
shares), which has applied for
permits to search for oil in the
Kimberleys and other regions,
apparently intends to make the
hunt for uranium in the Northern
Territory and Queensland its
first love, though no such leases
have yet been taken up.
Another entrant in the
uranium stakes is the Uranium
Mt. Isa Co., N.L. (name to be
changed to Uranium Holdings,
N.L.), which has secured four
prospective uranium - bearing
leases in the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
district (Q,), and has applied for
mining rights in Arnhem Land
(N.T.). The public is offered
1,300,000 ss. shares, payable
2s. 6d. down and the balance as
required. The issue has been
underwritten by Headlam, Hew-
son and Co., Sydney brokers.


Women’s Letters
ẁ
programme is unique in that the three
ballets owe much to the work of three
women. Alison Lee has done the choreo-
graphy to music by Mozart for “Cameo.”
Marie Cumisky has done a like service
for “Prelude to Prep,” music by
Kabelevsky; and scenery and costumes
for it have been designed by Nina Bra-
bant. Esther Rofe and Laurel Martyn
are responsible for the music and choreo-
graphy for “Mathinna,” which is based
on an historical episode of the 1840’s in
Van Diemen’s Land and tells the story
of an aboriginal girl. For this ballet Nina
BrSbant also designed costumes and
scenery. All three choreographers will
dance in their own ballets. Alison Lee,
who has returned after studying abroad,
is now acting-director of the Ballet Guild.
Mrs. A. L. Walters, wife of Air-Vice-
Marshal Walters, Air Officer Command-
ing Home Command, passed through
Melbourne on her way home to Sydney
after having been abroad with her hus-
band for seven years —two in Washing-
ton, where the Air-Vice-Marshal was
head of the Joint Australian Services,
and five in England. Her daughter Robin,
who was with her parents, was presented
at one of the Coronation garden-parties.
While in Washington Mrs. Walters be-
came interested in the Southern Cross
Club, which is run for and by Australians
living in that city. She will now take up
residence with her family at the Home
Command residence at Lapstone
(N.S.W.). Noted for her elegant dressing,
Mrs. Walters has brought back a collec-
tion of American cottons which will be
just right for Sydney’s summer. Photo
by John Warlow.
A large illuminated Toulouse-Lautrec
poster on the orchestra-dais and similar
amusing posters on the walls were used
as decoration for the Bohemian Night
at Giro’s arranged by the Robin Hood
Auxiliary. Function will assist the funds
of the Helping Hand Association for
Mentally Retarded Children. William
Dargie’s lovely flower-study, donated by
him to the committee, attracted a lot of
attention, as did the peculiar forms of
art which were hung at the entrance to
the ballroom. Women guests had dressed
attractively as can-can girls, apaches
and heroines of French opera, but the
men were content with velvet coats,
beards and berets. Mr. and Mrs. R.
Smith entertained a party which included
the George Griffiths, Mr. and Mrs. Abe
Silk, Cr. and Mrs, A. Findlay and Mr.
and Mrs. Jack Manton.
Mrs. James Alston, president of the
auxiliary, wore with her Bohemian-
peasant dress a beautiful flower-head-
dress ; her husband went as a Spanish
hidalgo.
Before the dance there were several
dinner-parties. Mrs. John Bell and her
sister Peggy Telleck entertained Cr.
Geoffrey Bolton, his daughter and son-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs, Philip Elcoate, and
Mr. and Mrs, James McGauran. Mr.
and Mrs. A. Nelken entertained in their
Toorak home Dr. and Mrs. Norval
Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Rodney Morell,
Reshid Bey (who arranged the art exhi-
bition with Barry Humphries, and who
was dressed as an artist in smock and
beret) and Madame Reshid Bey, very
pretty as a Hungarian peasant. Francine
Abry, who was dressed as a Spanish lady,
was in a party which included Neil
Clerehan and his fiancee, Sonia King
Cole.
ẃ
Mrs. Murray Robson, who is the wife
of the Leader of the Opposition in the
State Parliament, officially opened the
attractive exhibition of flower-paintings
by Sydney artist Muriel Elliott at the
Edgechiff home of Mrs, C. P. Johnson
on Thursday. The exhibition, which was
also an afternoon-tea-party, was held in
aid of the Y.W.C.A., and many of the 250
people who attended it remarked on how
well the fresh springlike atmosphere of
the paintings matched the calm beauty
of the scene from the terrace where the
tea was served. The artist, who is the
wife of Dr. George Elliott of Carlton,
was accompanied by her daughter Faye
and wore a dress of crushed-strawberry
color with a grey coat flecked with white.
Mrs. Robson’s pale-colored suit was
accented by pearl clips. Her photo is by
Dayne.
All the dreams ever dreamed about
magic toyshops seemed to come to reality
at the Naughty Nineties’ Boutique Fan-
tasque Ball last Friday night, when the
three levels of the A.C.I. Ballroom were
transformed by a brilliantly-clever and
sophisticated decor. On the top floor the
guests walked through curtains of snow
(thousands of little balls of cottonwool
threaded on cotton) past icy-blue scenes
of fantasy in a glittering winter light,
and when they reached the balcony-floor
they found themselves in what seemed
like a huge brown paper-package, tied
with black and brick-red ribbons, strung
with box-streamers in carnival-colors,
patterned with black silhouettes of han-
som-cabs, umbrellas, birds-in-cages, play-
ing-cards and thousands of lace paper-
doyleys. What a psychoanalyst would
have made of it might be interesting, but
there is no doubt that, with the bands
playing on two levels, the whirling pat-
terns of dolls, golly wogs, tumbling clowns,
kings and queens and knaves and jokers
dancing the samba and lots of can-cans,
the air of gaiety and enchantment was
striking.
Mrs. W J. Smith, president of the
committee, was the most inexhaustibly-
gay “Russian Merchant’s Wife” ever
seen. Mrs. Charles Canfield won the
prize for the most original costume, a
Dream Walking (one of Salvador Dali’s
dreams, that is). An outstanding set con-
sisted of people from the playing cards
in red and black and sparkling silver. The
costumes were the work of Bruce
King. Mrs. Eric Young and Mr. Norman
Walters led a wedding-group of animated
dolls which won the prize for the best
set. Mrs. Tom Arnold, who everyone
thought was supposed to be a Gipsy Rose
Lee, also won a prize as “the undressed
doll.”
Mrs. Gordon Johnston wore national
dress and gold lacquered hair as a Polish
doll; Mrs, Bill Murrell and Mr, Colin
Dangerfield (the chambermaid and the
Viennese Count) were strikingly dashing
and gay. Mr. Jimmy York, treasurer
of the ball, whose wife won a prize as
a doll-in-a-box, said that the lavish
supper for 600 guests had all been
donated but for three gallons of milk,
and that there was £7OOO in hand before
the ball even started. The proceeds go to
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Celebration Ball at Mark Foy’s
beautiful Empress Ballroom last week
under the auspices of the N.S.W. Division
of the Liberal Party of Australia was held
in honor of three happy occasions; the
10th birthday of the Liberal party, the
party’s success at the last Federal elec-
tions, and the wedding-anniversary of
the guests-of-honor, the Prime Minister
and Dame Pattie Menzies. The 17
debutantes who were presented by Lady
Harrison to Mr. Menzies and Dame
Pattie included two New Australian girls
and two who are the daughters of State
Members of Parliament, Judith Storey
and Margaret McCaw. A feature of the
dance, which was attended by over 1000
people, was the presentation to Dame
Pattie of a doll dressed in beautifully
embroidered national costume by Mrs.
Martin Halas on behalf of the Australian
Association of Slovaks.
Many lovely dresses were worn to
the ball, including Dame Pattie’s haze-
blue lace embroidered with pearls, Lady
Harrison’s handsome white crepe with
its georgette stole caught into cuffs en-
crusted with silver embroidery, Mrs. Lyle
Moore’s rose-pink moire which was
draped from the shoulder with rose satin
caught into three huge loops at the side,
Mrs. Murray Robson’s blue-grey satin,
its bodice a series of overlapping petals
made of hand-painted sequins, Mrs. Fur-
ley’s peacock-green embossed-brocade,
Mrs. R. Askin’s lilac net sparkling with
opalescent embroidery, and Mrs. Howard
Beale’s dainty dress of organdie in a
delicate pink shade.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the surprise birthday-party which
members of the National Opera Com-
pany gave to Mrs. Clarice Lorenz at her
home on Sunday night, Mr. W. J. Bradley,
chairman of the company, presented her
with a gift of two fountain-pens (“So she
can sign with two hands,” he said) and
Mr. Alan Light presented a framed
photograph of the singers and other
members of the cast, on whose behalf he
spoke. Earlier in the week Mrs. Lorenz
had been present at an entertaining pre-
sentation of “The Late Edwina, Black”
by the Ida Newton Players at the 2KY
Radiotorium, part of the proceeds of
which were donated to the funds of
National Opera.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Irish and the Scottish seem to be
rather in the news at the moment, with
the Irish fashion-parades at Mark Foy’s,
featuring Sibyl Connolly, the Irish dress-
designer and the three charming manne-
quins she has brought out with her to
show the clothes, which are all in natural
Irish fabrics. As for the Scottish, the
number of pipers who are going out to
greet Dame Flora MacLeod cannot fail
to stir every Caledonian heart. Highland
or Lowland.
☆ ☆ ☆
An outstanding feature of the Eliza-
bethan Ball, to be held on October 26
for the Elizabethan Theatre Trust, is to
be a ballet presented by members of the
Borovansky Ballet Company, and it
promises to be one of the loveliest “floor-
shows” seen at any ball during the year.
Other features are prizes for the best
hair-do in period-style, the best-decorated
table, and spot-dances, while the theatre-
decor in the foyer by leading artists
under the direction of Erik Langker
should be most original.
•fc ☆ ☆
A show of rose- and flower-decorations
will open at David Jones’ Art Gallery
on Wednesday, October 13, when there
will be a preview from 7.30 to 10.00
and will continue on Thursday Nth and
Friday 15th from 9.30 to 5.00. Admission
to the preview is 10s,; to the day-sessions.
2s, All proceeds will go to the Bush
Book Club of
N.S.W.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LANCE VICTOR DAVIES late of 85
Gilpin Street Newtown New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS ELLEN
DAVIES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1713 of 1954 on the grounds that
during three years and upwards you have
been an habitual drunkard and habitually
left your wife without means of support
and that during three years and up-
wards you have been an habitual drunkard
and habitually been guilty of cruelty
towards your wife If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 11th day of Janu-
ary 1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from HAROLD C.
WESTALL, Solicitor, 382 a Pacific High-
way, Crows Nest. —0. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO JACK BUDDIE ROTH late of 2540
Allen Street New Orleans U.S.A. —TAKE
NOTICE that LILLIAN JOYCE ROTH has
Bled a Petition for Divorce No. 751 of
1954 on the grounds of desertion without
any cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th day of January 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
HERALD, BRUCE BRIERLEY & ENG-
LAND, the Petitioner’s Solicitors, of 109
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER JAMES COBDBN late
of Brisbane—TAKE NOTICE that PEARL
COBDEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1727 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th January 1965
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from EDMUND O. LECKY, Soli-
citor, of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
ŵ
MORE
for your
MONEY
Canadian Pacific biggesl
travel bargain Australia to
North America.
• Super DC-6B service.
• Exclusive 18| hours' stopover
at Waikiki Beach.
• Non-stop Fiji—’Honolulu.
VANCOUVER
A,
m
m
HAWfll
fys
AUCKLAND
SYDNEY
Your choice of luxury §|jnires9
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
(®J)riiicess* service.
* TOURIST
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents for
l Canadian Pacific), or your local travel agent.
ẁ
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Conversation Piece
“I suspect,” said Myrtle to
the Turtle, “that, from the bags
under your eyes, you have been
going to shows again.”
“I cannot,” said the Turtle,
“deny it.”
“And I further suspect,” said
Myrtle, “that it was Miss Gipsy
Rose Lee at the Palladium who
drew you out of your shell.
What is she like —I mean does
she?”
“I saw,” said the Turtle, “a
most excellent performance of
an excellent play at the Inde-
pendent Theatre at North Syd-
ney. An adaptation, by Ruth
and Augustus Goetz, of Henry
James’s Washington Square .”
“You are trying to sidetrack
me.”
“I am not, and I persist.
Washington Square is, as you
probably know, the story of a
shy and awkward girl, and a
very plain one, whose father, a
wealthy doctor, can never quite
forgive her for not being as
beautiful and gracious as the
mother who died giving birth
to her. She has an income of
10.000 dollars a year and the
promise of a further 30,000 dol-
lars per annum when her father
dies.”
“And no doubt some feckless
fortune-hunter gets after her.”
“He does—an amiable, good-
looking young fellow who likes
the prospect of 40,000 dollars a
year and her father’s house.”
“Sounds rather melo-
dramatic.”
“Perhaps it does —so does a
lot of Shakspeare if you recite
the bare bones of his stories.
The old doctor assesses the
young man for what he is worth
and threatens to cut off the
30.000 dollars if his daughter
marries him, whereupon the
young fellow finds the distant
prospect of the Californian gold-
fields more interesting and jilts
the girl on the eve of their elope-
ment.”
“That all?”
“Practically. The old doctor
dies, his daughter inherits and
a couple of years after his de-
parture the young fellow returns,
having found the goldfields a
most unrewarding life; he
essays a second plausible crack
at the heiress and she, as she
remarks, having learnt the art
of cruelty from two masters in
the game, handles him accord-
ingly.”
“I was asking you about Miss
Gipsy Rose Lee.”
“So you were, and as I was
saying, Miss Doris Fitton’s pro-
duction of ‘The Heiress’ at the
Independent is an admirable one.
I have generally admired Miss
Fitton’s approach to plays. She
don’t, if I may say so, muck
about. The play’s the thing—
not this interpretation or that
one —and, so long as the author
makes his meaning plain, Miss
Fitton does likewise, and more
so. Her production here is
clear, certain and utterly con-
vincing.”
“There are actors and
actresses, of course?”
“Naturally, but producers
take precedence. Otherwise I
would have mentioned first
Verity Marina’s performance as
the heiress. As the timid young
girl terrified of her own
gaucheries ; as the young woman
in love; in her agony of disil-
lusion and in the cold, calculat-
ing ferocity with which she
handled the young fortune-
hunter she was magnificent.
When, at the finish, she went
calmly upstairs to bed while the
young man pounded and shouted
frantically at the door it was like
the burial of a spirit, the closing
of a tomb; one felt not the
triumph of her revenge, but the
tragedy of her destruction.”
“You sound a little fulsome.”
“Why not? When praise is
due, why qualify it? Miss
Marina’s performance was one
for the records of the Inde-
pendent. I should also mention
Helene Jacoby’s; admirable ac-
count of an incurable old senti-
mentalist ; that Russell Jarrett
encompassed the dignity, the
stubbornness and the loneliness
of the old doctor; and that
Richard Hughes, although he
made it a little too obvious that
T could not love thee, dear, so
much, Lov’d I not money more,’
was plausible enough to make
his duping of the young heiress
appear convincing,”
“Well, having got that qff
your chest, what about Miss
Gipsy Rose Lee?”
“I was about to say that last
week I also saw Miss Thea Rowe
at the Metropolitan Theatre
giving her interpretations of
traditional English, Scottish,
Welsh, Cornish and Irish folk-
songs.”
“But”
“Miss Rowe —I insist —has an
art all of her own. A small one,
perhaps, but an enchanting one,
and her ability to assume the
characters of her various songs—
the drunken Cornishman, the
wailing Irishman, ‘The Hungry
Old Woman,’ ‘Bonnie Mallie
Lee’ and dozens of others —
defies description. It must be
seen to be appreciated. It
should be seen.”
“Fulsome again, I venture.”
“Not at all. Don’t take my
word for it. I give you the ver-
dict of Sir Hugh S. Roberton,
founder and conductor of the
Glasgow Orpheus Choir. He
said ‘The exquisite fragrance of
her singing is still with me —it
was the most astounding per-
formance of its kind that I had
ever seen or heard. Her sing-
ing and her artistry are of such
a quality that they hold you
spellbound while the colorful
story of British folk-music is
told in a way that it has never
been told before. For nearly
three hours she held a city
audience entranced.’ ”
“All right. All right. I’ll take
your word for it. I’ll even go to
see Miss Rowe. But —please—
tell me about Gipsy Rose Lee.”
“I was about to add that I
also saw the Borovansky Ballet
last week. 'They spilled all the
colorful movement of ‘Cop-
pelia’ across the stage with
Peggy Sager making a prettily
mischievous Swanilda, though it
is not quite her role. Miss Sager
is a lovely dancer, and I’m afraid
I bore people talking about her
‘Swan Lake,’ but whenever I
see ‘Coppelia’ I think of Edna
Busse or Riabouchinska, those
delightful ‘little-girl’ dancers —
which every company needs but
which are a conspicuous lack in
Borovansky’s present organisa-
tion.”
“But about Miss Gipsy Rose
Lee?”
“The Borovanskys also pre-
sented ‘The Eternal Lovers’ in
which Paul Grinwis’s choreo-
graphy shows some striking
static patterns but a good deal
of awkward and unlovely move-
ment. Mr. Grinwis, as the Spirit
of Death, and in purple pants,
was an arresting figure, and
Raoul Celada and Kathleen
Gorham danced beautifully as
the young lovers —there was
some very tender emotion in
Miss Gorham’s performance —
but the ballet in general gave
the impression that it was being
dragged out to fit the music.”
“Please, please. Gipsy Rose?”
“I was also disappointed in
‘Prince Igor.’ It had a measure
of wild movement and excite-
ment, but I seem to remember a
different choreography where
the dancers appeared to surge
forward through their own
ranks until it seemed there were
thousands of them rushing and
leaping towards the audience.
Maybe it’s only a fault of
memory, but I think it has been
done that way—much more
effective than the current ver-
sion.”
“For the last time, what about
Gipsy? I heard her opening
night was a disappointment.”
“Since you twist my flipper,
I’ll tell you this much. I saw
Miss Lee’s opening night at the
Palladium and the audience did
not give her a very encouraging
reception. I venture that she
was overpublicised, particularly
for unemotional and slightly
cynical Australian audiences;
and I also hazard that she took
her audience a little too easily
—after all, patrons of Australian
vaudeville have been educated
by such great figures as Mo,
George Wallace and Gus Bluett,
and they are not to be won by
publicity and reputations. They
want the goods. Work hard for
them, as Tommy Trinder did,
and they’re all yours.”
“But did she?”
“Mind your own business.
Miss Lee struck me as a very
seasoned and capable perfor-
mer, and I think, if she feels so
inclined, she is eminently capable
of handling the most difficult
audience.”
“But did she?”
“May I be made into soup if
I say another word, except, per-
haps, to note as a minor point
of interest, the remarkable co-
incidence that neither Miss Lee
nor any of the other young
ladies on the programme appear
to have suffered from appendi-
citis.”
Fair Enough
Memories of the Metropolitan
Theatre a few years back —
Kevin Brennan’s Othello at
Killara, coffee and biscuits,
police bursting in diffidently on
May Hollinworth’s production
of “Ned Kelly” at Reiby-place
(they heard shots) —mingled
with the present at the current
production of “The Eagle Has
Two Heads” at the Metropoli-
tan’s permanent address near
Central Railway.
In those brave days the Metro-
politans wandered round Sydney
like gipsies, playing where they
could. May Hollinworth was
the fire and heart of the group,
which put on good theatre. At
the time I thought it a shame
so few people saw it. I remem-
ber feeling something like rage
when the Oliviers were out here
and half Sydney turned somer-
saults in furs and tails. Not
that the Old Vic company wasn’t
worth seeing. But a majority
of the people who lined up for
tickets loitered to chatter near
cameras and, generally, made a
social circus of the visit. They
didn’t care a damn for the
theatre, and proved it over the
years by ignoring anything
decent the Australian theatre
had to offer. But they would
pay handsomely and risk being
trampled to death to gape at
celebrities.
The years have somewhat
modified those black opinions.
The mob is still a mob, whether
it parades in evening-dress or
dungarees. And a mob of snobs
is high comedy for the gods.
But, after all, it made no deep
difference to the living theatre
whether the rank and fashion of
Sydney milled at the Tivoli to
see the Oliviers or went to the
trots.
For one reason and another I
haven’t seen much of the Metro-
politan of recent years. But I
was told it had “gone off,” and
was sorry. I read a criticism of
the current show which seemed
to confirm that opinion. Nor-
mally I wouldn’t dream of being
influenced by anything I read
in the dailies on the arts, since
their paramount interest is news,
but it was a wet night, the audi-
ence was meagre and I watched
the tattered and heraldic cur-
tain rise with misgivings.
I came away in a different
mood. It is easy to pick holes
in any production. Too easy.
But what, exactly, do people
expect —the Old Vic? True,
nothing in Australia has the
ease, the timing, the polish and
the even quality of Old Vic pro-
ductions ; any more than we
have the Tower of London. The
best we have had, by compari-
son, leap and sag. But, on occa-
sion, how magnificently they
leap! Kevin Brennan’s Othello,
in its separate manner of force
and fury, was superior to Sir
Laurence Olivier’s cool control
of voice and gesture in com-
parable scenes. One swallow
doesn’t make a summer; and
an overall comparison of the
two actors would be ridiculous.
But, in its context, this peak
of Brennan’s career was fair
enough.
Leslie Lindsay’s production
of Jean Cocteau’s “The Eagle
Has Two Heads” was fair
enough, too. Fair as the lily in
parts, but not quite as flawless.
One could warm one’s hands at
it, forgetting the dark, wet night
outside. Or, suddenly, become
aware of the night of fatality,
when Leslie Lindsay recoiled
like a cat from her dying lover;
in the lightning and thunder
that illuminated and shook the
fantastic castle, sending timid
gentlewomen to bed and exciting
the Queen to poetry. Or was it
the poetry, perhaps, that con-
jured up the storm?
Leslie Lindsay, as the Queen,
descended convincingly from
dreams and mystery to a weary,
worldly analysis of politicians
and, as cleanly, from a regal
figure to a woman. It is a long
time since I have seen an actress
look regal on the stage.
The total statement was fair
enough, given a liking for the
flesh-and-blood theatre. And
once one has acquired the taste
the films, ever afterwards, be-
come shadows, more-or-less
tolerable according to quality. I
suppose one makes allowances
—as an Elizabethan audience
made allowances for scenery
that wasn’t there, I missed the
coffee and biscuits. But I
enjoyed the play.
J. F.
Talkies
Current Sydney releases:
“Moment of Truth” (Paris):
Hoyts’ new Continental - film
house kicks off auspiciously with
this French opus, a tale of
marital infidelity told with
pungency and typical Gallic
irony and realism, and beauti-
fully acted by Michele Morgan,
Jean Gabin and Daniel Gelin.
“Miss Sadie Thompson”
(Capitol): Rita Hayworth
shrieks her way through this
story, which bears only a faint
resemblance to the Somerset
Maugham original. The best
part of it is Jose Ferrer’s per-
formance as the missionary who
finds it difficult to practise what
he preaches.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
JOHNNY got up quietly and
left the room, letting his
dark eyes wander to Rhoda
with a great deal more of
reproach than of sympathy.
Alec and Viki, apart from start-
ing involuntarily when Kraft-
mann proclaimed that all they’d
ever done would be paraded
before the world, remained silent
and more-or-less embarrassed.
But Mrs. Kraftmann had some-
thing useful to say again;
“We must take her to church.
We’ve all been staying away
from church too much lately,
and now this is a judgment come
upon us. You can say what you
like”- —this ’ with a significant
glance at Alec and Viki, who
hadn’t said anything, though they
had both fidgeted in their chairs
—“it all comes from slackness in
churchgoing.”
“You might be right for once,”
Kraftmann admitted. “If Rhoda
only remembered her Ten Com-
mandments she wouldn’t be act-
ing like this, ‘Honor thy father
and thy mother.’ This isn’t
honoring them; trying to dis-
grace them in public.”
Rhoda made a mortified
gesture, and asserted firmly,
“Will you get it into your heads
that I don’t want anyone but
Gregory to know a thing about
our affairs.”
“Oh, Rhoda!” her mother re-
proached her, her mind still
running on the Commandments.
“Such a disrespectful way to talk
to your parent! ”
“If the books are straight”—
Alec tried to introduce an
element of reason— I “there’d be
nothing to worry about; though
Breyley isn’t the man I person-
ally want poking his nose into
our affairs.”
Kraftmann quickly shouted:
“Of course the books are straight.
Who’s going to suggest that
they’re not?”
Rhoda surveyed him with disil-
lusion. There might, after all,
be some grounds for Breyley’s
suspicions.
“If he really could show us
how to make some nice big
profits,” Viki said tentatively,
“it might be worth while letting
him have a look. He impressed
me as a pretty smart fellow.”
Kraftmann gave a wounded
roar.
“Are you stupid enough to
think that a miserable little pen-
pushing runt from Sydney, can
teach me anything about running
a sheepfarm?”
Viki bowed before the storm.
Head-on collisions were not her
idea of tactics.
“You should know,” she said,
allowing herself a little saving
ambiguity which was lost on her
father.
“What she needs —what we all
need —is more churchgoing,” the
mother reiterated ; and she took
in Viki’s bored sigh and Alec’s
tired resistance with a resolution
firmly founded on the conviction
of right.
“I believe it would be a good
idea to go to church,” her
husband supported her. “I could
tell the pastor beforehand what
sort of things are happening
among his congregation.”
Rhoda shrugged. She Was past
being surprised at anything her
father might do.
“But,” he continued heavily,
“she must promise us that she
won’t take any action against us
before next Sunday.”
“I won’t promise that,” Rhoda
cried. “I’m not promising any-
body to do, or not to do,
anything.”
She stopped as if afraid she
might have said too much, and
put a hesitating hand to her face.
Her mother, looking at her with
kindness and. sympathy, said,
“We might get the pastor to come
for a social visit to see her.”
“No, don’t do that; don’t do
that!” Rhoda cried out.
“But he’s such a nice, kind
man,” her mother assured her,
quite puzzled. “You’d feel so
much better after a talk with
him; so comforted.”
“No, not that,” Rhoda
objected. “Anything but that.”
“We’ve got to stop her some-
how,” her father reaffirmed, not
so worried now that he knew
they had a weapon of which
Rhoda was afraid.
Rhoda tried to divert him
from her vulnerable spot.
“You can’t send me to my
bedroom. I won’t be fool
enough to do that again; and
if you try to shut me in, that will
be unlawful imprisonment and
you will be punished for it in the
courts. Gregory told me.”
At that Mrs. Kraftmann was
so shocked that she actually
threw up her hands in the way
it is done by the Jindulla
dramatic-society actors when
they are doing a period-play.
“There, she does think of
dragging us into the courts,” she
said. “Not that we’d think of
locking her up. But it does shock
me to think of her harboring
such thoughts in her head. We’ll
have to get the pastor to come
and see her.”
“No, no —not that!” Rhoda
cried again. “I’ll promise not to
do anything this week.”
“Good,” Kraftmann declared.
“That settles it. We’ll take her
to church next Sunday and see
if the pastor can’t drive the devil
out of her.”
Mrs. Kraftmann’s face sud-
denly brightened.
“Yes^ that’s it! Why didn’t
I think of it before, instead of
blaming poor Rhoda? It’s not
her fault at all. It’s just that a
devil has got into her,”
Rhoda groaned, “Mother,
don’t be silly.” But Mrs. Kraft-
mann ran on:
“I should have remembered
sooner. One of my sisters was
like that once. We couldn’t do
a thing with her. She screamed at
father and mother, and used bad
language at all us brothers and
sisters. We were all terribly
worried until old Pastor Koch
came along. But he just prayed
with her and talked with her;
then we all prayed with her, and
then the pastor put his hand
gently on her head and she
looked up and smiled at him.
And ever after that she was the
gentlest and kindest and most
obedient daughter there ever was.
That’s your Aunt Amelia, the
one that married Karl Rurich
and had eleven children —such
nice children, too, just like she
was.”
“Perhaps we ought to have the
pastor here,” Viki said with a
slightly unkind glance at Rhoda;
“then Rhoda might get married
and have eleven children.”
“Shut up, Viki,” Rhoda cried.
“I won’t have the pastor here.
But I’m agreeable to going to
church if you all go. I might not
be the only one who needs to be
told how to behave.”
“We’ll take her to church,” her
father said, completely unper-
turbed by the hint. “Come to
think of it, now, there’s a fellow
there I want to see. He owes me
some money. Whenever I see
him in town he dodges me, but
he’ll be ashamed to try that at
church. Something to be said
for church.”
The family dispersed, relieved'
that the scene was over and
things settled for the time being ;
satisfied, too, with the quality of
the entertainment, which had
been as dramatic as any they’d
had for a long time. But before
they went to bed Viki intercepted
Alec in the hall:
“What really is behind this
terrible quarrel between Rhoda
and Father?” she asked with
conspiratorial intensity, “They
used to be such good friends.
Does she think he’s getting away
with our money? And why is he
so outraged at the idea of having
the books audited? You ought
to know if there’s any funny
business going on.”
“Why should / know?” Alec
said impatiently. “Him and his
blasted money-grubbing. He’s
probably tried to do something
a bit too smart and he’s worried
about not being able to pull it
off —or more likely he just
doesn’t want a trained book-
keeper seeing how he muddles
along. I don’t believe he’d be
dishonest, anyway. He’s got a
very good name among the
neighbors and the businessmen
in town,”
Viki thought this over.
“That’s one thing I’d like to
know before I take sides in this
brawl. If he’s done something,
then it won’t matter so much
that I’ve done something, too.
Don’t tell a soul about this; but
once when I needed some cash
badly I sold some of my shares.
I know he always told us he’d
murder us if we sold our shares ;
but I thought it wouldn’t be so
bad if I sold them to Johnny.
He’s practically in the family.
He had some already.”
She suddenly broke off,
demanding, “What are you
laughing at?”
“As a matter of fact I sold
some of mine,” Alec said. “And
to Johnny, too. When I had to
pay for the repairs of that ruddy
caravan. Of course I didn’t tell
Father either, so the shares
haven’t been properly transferred.
Still, you can’t back out of a
thing like that.”
“If Breyley audited the books
would that have to come out?”
“Possibly,” Alec thought.
“The register of shareholders has
to be kept up-to-date and Johnny
might have to tell him to protect
himself.”
“Johnny!” Viki was suddenly
indignant. “Where does he get
all the money to buy shares from
the family?”
“He never stops getting it.
He’s learnt all that from our
noble father. He’s even got quite
a big flock of his own sheep that
he raised from orphan lambs
he bred on the bottle.”
Viki dismissed Johnny with a
gesture and took up her father
again :
“Still, if Pop should be paying
us dividends, and Breyley could
make him, it would be very nice.”
She eyed Alec shrewdly, out of
the corners of her eyes. “Here s
a girl who could do with a nice
big handful of money right now.
And I dare say you would find it
useful now those hawks are
around you with their damage
claims,”
“I wouldn’t embarrass the old
man just to please them,” Alec
said, “even though I think he’s a
mean old bully.”
“Myself, I think,” said Viki, at
her most sophisticated, “you can
be the good, obedient son too
long.”
“Get out of it,” Alec said.
He turned her round with one
hand, and gave her a sharp,
stinging slap on her well-rounded
behind with the other.
In the kitchen Rhoda was still
washing dishes, with a furious
clatter, on her own, having
refused all offers of assistance.
In his austere little room, set
apart from the rest of the house,
Johnny’s light still burned,
contrary to his early-rising, early-
retiring habit. Johnny was
worried. But in order not entirely
to waste time and electricity he
was re-reading some of the most
recent pamphlets on the diseases
of sheep.
CHAPTER VII
TTHE church, of which the
Kraftmanns were hereditary
members, was situated, together
with its attendant parsonage, in
an otherwise-unoccupied road
among a community of its
farmer-members.
Not where one might expect
it, in the town of Jindulla,
because in its limited way
Jindulla represented “the world”
and the Lutheran Church
believed in keeping itself
unspotted by the world.
The family arrived early,
because Kraftmann persisted
with his determination to
influence the pastor before he
preached his sermon; never-
theless most of the congregation
were there before them. A
surprisingly large number of cars
for these days of poor church-
attendances, and a surprisingly
large church where there were
so few houses visible to supply
worshippers.
The Kraftmann car was spec-
tacularly the newest, the largest,
the most luxurious and the most
expensive of all that were parked
at the roadside. And the Kratt-
mann women were obviously the
best-dressed and the best-
groomed ; particularly Viki, with
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments : —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. —Town accountant;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. —Son ; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
{“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property {and the family with
it) is concerned.
Rhoda has invited Breyley to
dinner; and Breyley tells Kraft-
mann, who is under the impres-
sion that he wants permission to
marry Rhoda, that he has every
right to examine the books of
Kraftmann’s family company on
Rhoda’s behalf. Kraftmann
furiously orders Breyley out of
the house. ' Alec is wondering
how to settle an £BOOO claim by
Stefanik, a travelling salesman
of “Old Masters,” for pictures
damaged in a car-collision; but
the main problem at the moment
is what to do about Rhoda and
Breyley.


her tight, shiny garments over
her plump, provocative figure ;
her lacy, ribbony throat, her
hysterically fashionable hat; her
lavishly made-up face.
The humble farming folk
gathered there gazed at them
with some interest, but no sense
of inferiority. The Kraftmanns
came to church rarely; they
went to church frequently:
therefore they were much better
people than the Kraftmanns.
Kraftmann immediately went
striding off to see the pastor,
making hurried and indifferent
greetings where greetings for all
were expected as much as at a
bowling-club.
Then he caught sight of a man
whose presence brought him to
a stop ; one of the dodgers who
owed him money. Yet, surpris-
ingly, instead of attempting to
avoid him the man came hurrying
up to him.
He was only a small farmer, a
straggler always in financial diffi-
culties ; yet here he greeted
Kraftmann with an air of easy
equality because he was a lay-
reader, an- elder in the congrega-
tion and an assiduous attender
of conventions and rallies;
highly thought of in the church.
As he walked he fished out a
notebook and a pencil from the
pockets of his crumpled dark
navy suit:
“Ah, Brother Kraftmann,” he
said, thus asserting himself
immediately, because only the
Many of the congregation seemed to be in no doubt about to whom he was referring, and, so that there should be no mistake,
some of them turned in their seats to look straight at Kraftmann.
most zealous and prominent
members went about calling
other people “brother” ; “I’m so
pleased to see' you at church
again at last. We were so afraid
that all of you must be sick or
had accidents or some other
trouble that kept you away. But
now everything is right again
and you’re here.”
He gave Kraftmann a happy,
ingenuous smile ; then he held up
his notebook and pencil.
“There’s another matter here
that makes me pleased that
you’ve turned up again. This is
a subscription-list to raise money
to pay for the cost of electric
wiring for the parsonage and
church. Three - hundred - and-
fifty pounds. Most of us are
giving from two to five pounds,
but from one who has been so
richly blessed as you, well,
couldn’t we expect fifty?”
He looked optimistically into
Kraftmann’s face, at the same
time handing him the notebook
and pencil so that he could have
the pleasure of personally
recording his generous donation,
Kraftmann took it, and ran his
eye over the list of contributions.
To his surprise the man who
hadn’t been able to pay what he
owed was the highest donor at
five pounds.
“Ha,” said Kraftmann,
attempting to nail poor old
Schmidt with his eye. “I see that
you seem to have plenty of
money to throw around. Have
you forgotten that you owe me
fifty pounds for a few old ewes
you bought from me?”
“Forgotten? Oh, no. Brother
Kr3ftixi3iin! ,5 The eyes th3t
searched Kraftmann’s face were
wide and innocent. “I haven’t
forgotten. I’ll pay you as soon
as I am able. But the congrega-
tion has had such a lot of
expenses lately, and naturally the
church comes first and I, just
haven’t anything over.”
“Why should the church come
first?” Kraftmann demanded. “I
don’t see how a man can honestly
give money away unless he’s paid
his debts first.”
Schmidt shook his head
gravely from side to side,
“Brother Kraftmann,” he said,
“if I didn’t give to the church,
I’d be stealing from the Lord.
You should know that.”
“Actually”—Kraftmann sup-
pressed his anger as best he
could—“when you give to the
Lord, you steal from me.”
Schmidt smiled, unimpressed
either by Kraftmann’s anger or
by his logic,
“How much will you give?”
he asked, fidgeting a bit to show
that he couldn’t waste too much
time over one contributor.
Kraftmann’s face reddened as
though he might explode into
some kind of blasphemy. Then,
recalling that he had come to
invoke church aid, and had better
walk circumspectly, he replaced
his anger with a look of cunning.
“I’ve given five pounds
already,” he said, becoming
pleased in a tigerish way, “since
you’ve given five pounds that
rightly belongs to me. I’ll cross
out your name and put mine
there. And now, since you still
owe me forty-five pounds more
for those sheep, I’ll write down
forty-five pounds, ‘to be paid by
C. Schmidt.’ Then we’ll all be
square. Here”—he shoved the
book and pencil violently on to
Schmidt —“now if you don’t pay
up that money promptly you
really will be stealing from God.
Go on, take your blasted note-
book, I’ve got to hurry to see
the pastor before church starts,
I’ll tell him about you owing
God money, too.”
Kraftmann hurried off, well
pleased with himself, round the
side of the excessively plain
brick church, for his interview,
Several other men with note-
books and pencils tried to stop
him, but he brushed them aside,
“Afterwards,” he said, dis-
couragingly.
In the vestry a very tall and
thin elderly man in a black
surplice, who looked like an
3ini3blc 3nd not very efficient
bank clerk, was tramping to and
fro, trying to collect his thoughts
for the sermon, and carrying an
armful of black-covered books
because his desk as well as an
adjacent table were covered with
heaps of fresh, sweet flowers.
A work-ravaged but optimistic-
looking woman in her forties
and her buxom, grinning
daughter were arranging the
flowers in vases, taking their time
about it, although it was already
past the time to start the service,
and continually turning round to
the pastor to incite him into
admiration for the flowers,
When the woman spoke her voice
was full of dramatic inflections.
“I’m always so worried that
when my Sunday comes I won’t
have a thing in the garden.”
“Haw, Mum,” the daughter
giggled unbelievingly.
“I’m sure you’d never be short
of flowers, Mrs. Heiner,” the
pastor said, putting some urgency
into his voice to spur the linger-
ing efforts of the good lady.
“Every time I drive past your
place I can’t help admiring your
garden. To me it seems to be a
mass of flowers from January to
December. I don’t see that you
have anything to worry about.
Now!”
He looked significantly at his
wrist-watch, but Mrs. Heiner had
turned a beatifically gratified
look on her daughter.
“Did you hear that, Ruthy?”
she said, her voice coagulated
honey and cream. Then it took
on a grim and stern color. “But
if he knew of the work that goes
into it!”
“I’ll say,” said Ruthy, her
voice so flat and toneless after
her mother’s that she sounded
like a ventriloquist’s doll. “But
yer better git goin’. Mum, or the
pastor will kick us out.”
“Oh, yes, we must hurry ” the
good lady said, but she turned a
devoted smile on the pastor
because he was so good : he
would never kick her out.
Kraftmann had been staring
at the situation in frustrated
impatience. Finally he hurried
to the pastor, took him by the
arm, bustled him to the corner
farthest from the flowers, and
began to speak to him with such
dramatic earnestness that Mrs.
Heiner missed the vases two out
of three times from craning her
head to listen.
“Pastor,” he said, as if he was
giving instructions to one of his
agents, “I want you to put some-
thing in your sermon about dis-
obedient daughters. Make it
good and hot. Don’t spare the
hell-fire, because it’s a serious
case.”
The pastor slowly withdrew
his arm, offended that a layman
should attempt to dictate the
content of his sermon. Then his
face changed to a curiosity only
slightly less naive than Mrs.
Heiner’s. _
“Which daughter is it? What
has she been doing? ”
This time Kraftmann drew
back from the pastor’s advancing
face.
“It’s not necessary to tell you
that, is it? You just give your
usual one on the Fourth Com-
mandment—that’s the one about
Children obey your parents,’
isn’t it? ”
The pastor considered him
speculatively.
“Would you like me to come
and see her? A little private
talk is always a lot better than
a sermon.”
“No,” Kraftmann said firmly.
“I promised her we wouldn't
do that. Not yet anyhow. We
might have to, though, if it comes
to the worst.”
The pastor appeared more
hopeful.
“What about writing it
down?” Kraftmann prompted
him ; “you might forget it if you
don’t.”
The pastor bent double to put
his hand under his surplice, and
worked it up under the black
folds to a pocket in his waist-
coat. He drew out a small piece
of cardboard covered with
squiggles that looked like some
kind of home-made shorthand.
On it he very deliberately made
a design resembling an
unpleasant insect.
“Just plain disobedience?” he
asked Kraftmann, like a com-
petent grocer taking an order,
“Or is it disobedience about
some particular thing—such as
churchgoing?”
“You could say,” Kraftmann
replied, “that it’s disobedience
about money.”
The pastor stared thoughtfully
at Kraftmann over his glasses
for a while, as if this were a
rare case unfamiliar to him.
Then very deliberately he added
a crooked leg to the offensive
insect.
“Finished at last!” Mrs.
Heiner exclaimed in triumph,
gazing ecstatically at the row of
vases. “Aren’t they just
beautiful! I must say it; I can t
help it, even though I grew them
myself.” She shook her' heitd
sadly over her sinful pride.
“Now, you just need to carry
them in to the altar,” the pastor
suggested.
“Ruthy ! Quick !” she chided
her daughter. “What are you
standing there for doing
nothing? Can’t you see that
the poor pastor is just dying to
start the service?”
The interior of the church was
austere in the extreme. Hard
wooden pews, with the back-rest
designed, it seemed, to keep
people painfully awake. The
bare boards of the floor had
narrow strips of coconut-matting
just wide enough for the traffic
but no more. Pulpit and altar
had the barest of ornamentation
necessary to make them distin-
guishable from lay furnishing.
Only Mrs. Heiner’s flowers
glowed passionately and flaunted
their pantheistic theories.
Two of the Kraftmanns sat
on each side of Rhoda; not
actually to prevent her escaping
from the sermon, nor, on the
other hand, to give her needed
support in possible distress ; but
just because Mrs. Kraftmann
thought that it would be
“appropriate” to sit in that
manner.
Kraftmann moved about
impatiently at first, as if the
hymn-singing and responses
were a regrettable waste of time;
but when the sermon started he
leaned back in the seat until it
cracked. He could almost be
heard thinking, “Ah, now we’re
going to have it.”
The pastor, like so many of his
faith, believed in making his
sermons strong on “doctrine.”
So strong was he for doctrine
that one disrespectful and
reprobate member had declared
that he had only one sermon
which he repeated every Sunday ;
“You’re all damned sinners.
You deserve to go to hell. Hell
is a damned awful place full of
fire and torture. But don’t get
the wind up. You won’t have
to go there if you do what 1 tell
you.”
But none of the congregation
really minded if the sermons
were all of the same pattern. It
enabled them to rest instead of
sitting up, all tense, watching out
for New Thoughts, as some
unfortunate churchgoers of
other denominations are obliged
to do. They listened to the
terrible denunciations of their
sins, calm, not in the knowledge
of their, humanly speaking,
blameless lives, but in their
certainty of how the sermon
would end.
But instead of the sermon
being about disobedient
daughters, it was all about a
complacent rich man who was
callously indifferent to the con-
dition of a poor beggar called
Lazarus; for which sin he was
ultimately sent to Hell, where he
thirsted mightily and was
reduced to begging Lazarus for
a drop of water. The pastor gave
the rich man a very unpleasant
time. Many of the congregation
seemed to be in no doubt about
to whom he was referring, and, so
that there should be no mistake,
some of - them turned in their
seats to look straight at Kraft-
mann.
Rhoda meanwhile sat with
downcast head. Most of the
good people sat with their heads
humbly inclined, but not at the
same angle as Rhoda’s. Their
heads were held in about the
o Continued on page 23)


AC 18
Make ( flAWlifrl ) your key
to OVERSEAS MARKETS
Nsi
mm
i ,
* I
AMERICA
EUROPE
ASIA
AFRICA
AUSTRALIA
Save valuable profit-making time
as you fly on business—to any of 26
countries linked by Qantas. Cut travel
time and distance. See more people,
do more business, take time off to
relax—and still be home weeks sooner.
It’s a business proposition to fly Qantas
—and p ship your goods by Qantas
Air Cargo.
Consult your Travel Agent.
cm
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS Ltd. (Inc. in Q’land) with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
34 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of*-~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING- INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
"Now mountain men are shy, wild creatures..."
The Playing Possum
by DAVID CAMPBELL
As I was going through with cattle.
The girls in pairs were cutting wattle
To hang in the hall that stood way over
Against the mountain and the river.
The mob kicked up the yellow dust
And I rode hard, as horsemen must
When there are any girls about;
So rounding-up and cutting-out,
1 took the scrubbers by the hall
And soon there were no girls at all
Gathering flowers but one, and she
Dropped her eyes and looked at me.
Now mountain men are shy wild creatures
Till rum has mingled with their natures;
And though they love a rowdy colt,
Show them a skirt and they will bolt.
And there was I bailed up between
The mountainside and the ravine
By one who scorned my brinded beast's
And had two arms, two legs, two breasts,
And eyes that through the wattle-blossom
Looked out as darkly as a possum.
Well, fairly cornered, I drew rein
And coughed and said, “It looks like
rain!”
And she said, "Yes, it does indeed!”
And then, to follow up my lead,
She said, “I hope with all my heart
It doesn’t, though, tonight, for that
Would spoil the ball. Will you be
coming?”
I tell you, my heart gave me a drumming
When I considered what I’d said;
And so I gave the horse his head.
But chancing on the way to turn
And see her wave her hanky, then
My heart sang like the native lyre-
Bird who leaps from the green briar
To mock and ape the waterfall
Setting her rainbows in the tall
Tops of the apple-gums so sang
My heart and so the ranges rang!
9 h is a Peasant thing to ride
wi eVen i ng i the riverside i
When all the su PP le willow-trees
Are sll PP m S on thei * negligees;
And 11 18 ver y sweet aa well
To happen on a bush hotel.
The bar-room door stood open wide
But not a soul stood up inside,
Or leaned or lay and that was queer.
Had men run out or had the beer?
So hanging Lightning on the gate,
I went inside and cried, “Hey, mate!
Where’s everyone around the house?”
"They’re all out lopping apple-boughs,”
A voice replied, "to line the walls.
That’s the whole trouble with these balls!
All balls,” he said, “if you ask me.
Are just a waste of man and tree
And drinking time, so 'elp me Gawd!”
And through the gloom appeared m’lord.
I had a few, saw to the cattle,
And joined the boys at scrubbing apple. •
We only took the smaller trees,
Ringing ’em down, and carried these
Over the gullies to the hall
And stood them up against the wall—
Though there were some who said we
should
Take the ballroom to the wood.
Then coats flew off and ’way they scoot
To limber-up the arrow-root
By sliding up and down the floor.
And all this while, you may be sure.
The little skirt who brought the wattle
And I are swapping looks (the bottle
No doubt had limbered-up my glance.)
I’m looking forward to this dance,
When a bush giant called Happy Al
Stands over me and tells me, “Well?”
“Well . . . you know what to do?” replied
My voice, and he said, “Step outside.”
Al, for a man of fifteen stone,
Was nimble on his feet, and won—
At least, that is what 1 suppose
For when I woke a ring of crows
Were weighing with horse-dealer eyes
(As hard and blue as gully skies)
My lids and kidneys, lights and boots
And bartering through their crooked
throats—
Which made me glad I had not stayed, *
And sent me to the pub for aid
And any news about the fight.
The day was getting on and night
Hung like a dreaming eagle where
The granite cliffs of Pidgeon Square
Ran with an avalanche of flame.
The rum was very much the same;
And Lazy Harry musing on
The liquor laws and setting sun,
Told me he’d heard (but then you heard
All kinds of things, upon his word!)
I’d upped my traps (or so they said)
And galloped off. I might be dead
For all he knew, or cared. The best
Were shadows. Boys, he’d say if pressed,
Were boys. And taking from the shelf
His collar-stud, he dressed himself.
“See you in church,” he mused. “Me legs!
I’m for the hall to salt the kegs.”
The ball began at half-past eight.
I hurried so I’d not be late
And found them strung down either wall,
The men in suits that were too small,
The ladies powdered to the eyes—
Except my Jenny, whose surprise
Was marked at once by Happy Alec,
Who acted like a man with colic.
But music-ho! They set the reel
And pianola, drum and steel-
Guitar ran through the opening bars
Like harrows scratched across the stars.
Now Jenny lifts her lovely arms
But wait I The towering apple-gums
That line the walls are sharp with eyes!
They wink, they move like fireflies
While all stand mute with terror there
(Saving the gallant old Scotch air) ;
And from the leaves a ring-tail possum
Leaps out and lights in Bridget’s bosom.
Then down the trees to the glassy floor
Came six, a dozen, twenty-four.
To skate, glissade and slide about—
Twas doubtful who were more put out:
The screaming women or the bright-
Eyed creatures who woke up that night
Thinking themselves at peace at home
When Hay, Hell, Pandemonium
Broke loose! And more may have befallen
Had it not been for Happy Alan
Who cried out, “Ladies! Block ’em, toss
’em!
Leave it to me, I know me possum!”
And know his possum Happy did:
He lifts the pianola lid
And seizing in either hand a tail,
Flip! To the instrument they sail;
Flip, flip, in go a couple more
While the keys carry on the score
(Though somewhat marred, I’m bound
to say)
Of “Over the Hills and Far Away.”
And when the pianoforte had all
The possums it could hold, our Al,
Whisking one out of Bridget’s drawers,
Sends it through the double doors,
And out the windows and the skylight.
But even such ecstasies are finite,
And now the last possum leaves his
thumb-
Bang! Bang! It rockets through the drum;
At which the populace applaud.
What happened next I can’t record
Except that I slipped out to hide
And there was Jenny at my side.
O Jenny, possums and the moon!
We walked and kissed and very soon
Curled up as lovers will. But see!
The moon has crept into her tree
And the fierce colors scratch the sky.
Now tell me, Jenny, tell me why
We must be gone before the day?
Ah, pretty Jenny, do not say.


INCREASE your
pasture profits with
hiiki
ii:
V
mm
ftii mk-fui water
ivtik
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT
AMES SYSTEMS
include
TOW-A-LINE
ROTO-RAIN
PERF-O-RAIN
GATED PIPE
and
A.B.C. COUPLED
ACCESSORIES
Have gentle rain wherever you need it for lush, green
pastures that graze more head per acre, more months
of the year. An Ames portable Roto-Rain revolving
sprinkler system can increase . . . even double your
pasture profits through finer forage, more milk, wool
and meat production, plus saving in labour and water.
Your A.8.C.-Coupled Roto-Rain lines are moved in a
matter of minutes. Push, click, the pipe is coupled,
then automatically sealed by water pressure. An easy
twisting pull and it’s uncoupled. No hooks or gadgets.
22° flexibility at each joint. Sturdy aluminium pipe.
ẃ
The Revolutionary
PRESSURE-LOCKING
AMES BALL COUPLER
Makes field connections as easy
as A B C!
For details and free planning service, call or Write us today
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
P.O. BOX 509 10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney. Phone: BU 5095
Branches: Newcastle, Llsmore, Wagga & Hay, and at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
GD4B
same position as when travelling
in an all-night train; but
Rhoda’s was depressed a few
more degrees, and, from what
could be seen of her face, her
expression was expectant —of an
unmistakable reference that
would make the whole con-
gregation turn to stare at her.
She was so certain that her
father would have contrived
something that she didn’t notice
that the sermon wasn’t about
unruly daughters at all Only
when her father’s angry fidgeting
became noticeable, and wor-
shippers who had turned round
to point the moral prudently
rationed themselves to the merest
frightened glimpses, did she
realise that some kind of miracle
had intervened to save her.
Kraftmann made several
attempts to get up and go out,
but his wife restrained him with
a hand surprisingly strong. For
once he submitted to her. In
religion, he acknowledged a
certain vague authority in her.
But he refused to put any money
in the plate when it circulated
after the sermon, and he kept
obstinately silent during the
hymns. As soon as he could
after the service, he was round
at the vestry again demanding an
explanation.
The pastor was removing his
surplice with an absent, absorbed
look on his face. It might have
been a space-suit, and he just
returned from an inter-planetary
journey. Mrs. Heiner and her
daughter were there, too, taking
the flowers out of the vases again.
She had obviously thought of
nothing but the flowers since
putting them in. Even the rage
on Kraftmann’s face didn’t get
them out of her mind,
“What did you think of my
flowers, Mr. Kraftmann? Do
you think I’m silly for thinking
they were lovely? Even though
I say it myself, I really believe
I made a better show than Mrs.
Schmidt last week. What do you
say, Mr. Kraftmann?”
Kraftmann at first had had no
intention of disguising the fact
that he hadn’t even seen the
flowers ; but when she kept on
talking so long he began to
remember that he had known
her all her life ; then when she
mentioned the wife of the objec-
tionable Schmidt he decided to
be particularly nice to her.
“They were so beautiful, Mrs.
Heiner,” he said loud enough for
the pastor to overhear, “that I
couldn’t keep my mind on the
sermon. They took me back to
the days when you were a young
girl; when you were like a
flower yourself.”
Mrs. Heiner gave a shriek,
partly of rapture, partly con-
sternation. Her, a married
woman, being so outrageously
complimented by a married
man ; and in church, too; and
in front of the pastor, too ; and
in front of her daughter, too.
And the daughter, after her first
burst of incredulous surprise,
suddenly big-eyed and thoughtful
that her utterly reliable, meal-
getting, child-minding, garden-
worrying, churchgoing mother
should miraculously look starry-
eyed and flapper-foolish, and
quite melting as she had never
remembered seeing her before.
But, having made his effect,
Kraftmann brushed her away
and again cornered the pastor.
“You didn’t say a word about
what I told you in your sermon.”
The pastor turned on Kraft-
mann with an unworried, stead-
fast face, the facade of a mind
grappling with affairs of
immense profundity. A flash of
interest showed that Kraftmann's
reappearance had provided some
kind of a clue to his deep
problem. Without saying a word
he slipped his fingers into his
vest pocket and fished out his
little piece of cardboard. He
gazed at it with consuming
interest. Then he smiled con-
tentedly at Kraftmann.
“So that was it,” he said. He
looked serious again. He took
out his pencil and obliterated the
unpleasant insect; “That was a
new symbol I invented lately;
but it was a failure. I’ll have to
think of something else. I’m dis-
appointed though. It was such a
comprehensive symbol. The
circles meant something, and
each of the lines.” His face
brightened. “But I did re-
member it had something to
do with money. I hope you were
satisfied with what I said about
that; and I hope it will do some
good, too.”
Kraftmann gave up, convinced
that the pastor was hopelessly
useless in his emergency, and
turned to go.
“Mr. Kraftmann, there’s
another thing I wanted to speak
to you about” The pastor’s tone
was respectful now, almost
wheedling. “I’ve long been think-
ing that it’s time I was moved
in to Jindulla. So many more
opportunities for useful work in
there; schoolchildren to be
instructed; hospital patients to
be visited.”
Kraftmann swung round,
actively angry again.
“Just after we’ve spent three-
fifty pounds connecting the
parsonage and church with
electricity!” he exclaimed, and
rushed out.
Two men lying in wait with
notebooks converged on him.
Kraftmann swung on them
savagely.
“You go to hell! ” he shouted.
They lowered their notebooks
slowly, absorbing the shocking
behavior in infinitesimal degrees.
They gazed at each other with
big, innocent eyes.
“Not a very Christian way to
behave,” one said, getting ideas
one by one of the consequences
of such defiance church
discipline to be called into action,
arid agreeably dramatic develop-
ments that could be discussed at
church, week by week.
“Something must have
annoyed him,” the other said,
taking a more worldly view.
“We’ll have to try him some
other day when he’s in a better
mood. No good quarrelling
with him; he’s the goose that
lays the golden eggs.”
Kraftmann sat in his car,
oozing untouchableness. He
expected that the rest of the
family would come hurrying as
soon as they saw that he was
waiting; they always did, but
that was when Viki was not at
home.
Superficially, it was unthink-
able that Viki should want to
waste time talking to a lot of
incredibly rusticated old women,
but that was what she was
doing, and she was enjoying it
immensely. Even among them,
she could awaken an answering
sparkle. Among them the less
sophisticated current wisecracks
from George-street provided
shrieks of laughter: no suspicion
that.they were not Viki’s own
original; and once they were
started, nothing she did or said
failed to amuse them.
“Is this your daughter, Mrs.
Heiner? My goodness, what a
beautiful big girl she’s grown
into. Mrs. Heiner” —this most
importantly —“you know, I
believe she’d be a singer. She’s
got wonderful depth of chest.
Look.” She put one hand on
Ruthy’s back and the other in
front. “Look, ten inches, if it’s
an inch, and” —now looking
audaciously mischievous —“that’s
not counting that lovely big
development she’s getting in
front! ”
Storms of giggles over this,
with Ruthy’s embarrassment
smoothed over by a couple of
touching caresses. “How old are
you, darling? Only twelve. My!
How young they start these days.
My word, you’ll have to watch
her now, Mrs. Heiner, the boys
will be chasing her round the
haystacks in no time.”
Shrieks of laughter now,
because all the most indecorous
scandals in the community were
usually alleged to have originated
“round the haystack.” Mrs.
Kraftmann, preserving her
dignity, stood aloof from the
group, trying to catch Viki’s eye
and warn her that her father was
waiting. Rhoda, inescapably
thrown among the more socially
respectable, virginal and
spinsterish ones, could not keep
her eyes from Viki’s group, half
in contempt, half in envy.
No one felt very comfortable
on the way home. Rhoda had
scored a negative kind of success,
but her father was not disposed
to let her flaunt it.
“I was speaking to the pastor,”
he said. “He seems to think that
a personal visit would be best.”
Rhoda did not betray herself
by so much as a movement. She
gave the impression that she was
doing some intensive thinking.
CHAPTER VIII
nr HE next time the Kraftmann
family went to town Rhoda
took along a large flat parcel
from which she showed a deter-
mined resolution not to be
separated.
Had she not been acting in
this obstinate and agitated
manner, none of the others would
have noticed the parcel. Rhoda
was always taking parcels to
town; generally articles of cloth-
ing she had taken home “on
appro.” and had decided didn’t
suit her after all; or cakes she
had baked for sale at the stalls
of charitable bodies; or some-
thing a visitor to their place had
left behind; or some fruit,
vegetables or flowers from the
garden for somebody or other.
Although Rhoda’s motives in
taking the parcels were generally
admirable, Alec always referred
to them impatiently as “Rhoda’s
ruddy parcels.” Every time he,
or anyone else was using the car
to keep an appointment, Rhoda
saw an opportunity to go along,
too, and—obliging a detour
which generally took more time
than could be spared—deliver
one of her parcels.
“Whatever is in it?” Viki
exclaimed, knowing she wouldn’t
be told, but rousing everyone’s
curiosity with her dramatic
inflections. “Grab it, Alec, and
have a look.”
“You can talk about me having
a parcel! ” Rhoda attacked in her
turn. “Not only the boot, but
the whole car is full of your
luggage. And I’ll bet you
o Continued on page 27)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
k-
:y
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
0
m
The name is
(I) Oolluins
m
m
Ha
|||| the
mm
whisky 'Sy
£
WhoUy distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE /
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
Legal Notices
“THE LIQUOR ACTS, 1912 TO 1952”
(QUEENSLAND) Area 1.
SALE BY PUBLIC TENDER OP
LICENSED VICTUALLER’S LICENSE
TO BE REMOVED TO LOCALITY OP
TOWN OP SOUTH COAST BETWEEN
SOUTHPORT AND THORNTON
STREET, SURFERS PARADISE.
TENDERS will be received at the Office
of the Licensing Commission, Treasury
Building, Queen Street, Brisbane, at or
before 3.30 P.M. on Monday, the Thir-
teenth day of December, 1954, for the
sale by public tender of Licensed Vic-
tualler’s License which the Licensing
Commission has determined shall be re-
moved to the locality of Town of South
Coast between Southport and Thornton
Street, Surfers Paradise.
This area includes the coastal strip from
Jubilee Bridge, Southport, to Thornton
Street, Surfers Paradise, including Main
Beach, Narrow-Neck and Surfers Para-
dise.
Tender forms. Specifications and Condi-
tions of Tender may be had on applica-
tion to the Secretary, Licensing Com-
mission, Treasury Building, Brisbane.
Map of locality may be inspected at the
Office of Licensing Commission, Brisbane,
or Clerk of Petty Sessions, Southport.
Every tender must be on a tender form
provided by the Licensing Commission
and must be in terms of the specifications
prepared by such Commission, and Con-
ditions of Tender specified by such Com-
mission, and must be accompanied by a
deposit of 21 per cent, of the amount
of the tender or £lOO, whichever is the
greater, and by all plans, descriptions and
particulars required by “The Liquor Acts,
1912 to 1952.”
The highest or any tender will not
necessarily be accepted.
DATED at BRISBANE this TWENTY-
THIRD day of SEPTEMBER, 1954.
J. P. McCOY,
Secretary to the Licensing Commission.
Treasury Building, Brisbane.
“THE LIQUOR ACTS, 1912 to 1952”
(QUEENSLAND) Area 2.
SALE BY PUBLIC TENDER OP
LICENSED VICTUALLER’S LICENSE
TO BE REMOVED TO LOCALITY OP
TOWN OF SOUTH COAST BETWEEN
THORNTON STREET. SURFERS
PARADISE AND TALLEBUDGERA
CREEK.
TENDERS will be received at the Office
of the Licensing Commission, Treasury
Building, Queen Street, Brisbane, at or
before 8.30 P.M. on MONDAY, the
THIRTEENTH day of DECEMBER. 1954,
for the sale by public tender of Licensed
Victualler’s License which the Licensing
Commission has determined shall be re-
moved to the locality of Town of South
Coast between Thornton Street, Surfers
Paradise and Tallebudgera Creek.
This area includes the coastal strip
from Thornton Street, Surfers Paradise
to Tallebudgera Creek, including Broad-
beach, Mermaid Beach, Miami and Bur-
leigh.
Any tenderer may nominate as his
site for licensed premises Section 25 of
a new subdivision of land in the area
known as Broadbeach. (Area 3$ acres
approximately.)
A perpetual lease of this area will be
available, if desired, to a successful ten-
derer at an annual rental of £B5O for
the first period of 15 years;
Tenderers may nominate this or any
other site within the prescribed locality.
Tender forms. Specification and Con
ditions of Tender may be hid on appli
cation to the Secretary, Licensing Com
mission, Treasury Building, Brisbane,
Map of locality may be inspected at Office
of Licensing Commission, Brisbane, or
Clerk of Petty Sessions, Southport.
Every tender must be on a tender form
provided by the Licensing Commission and
must be in terms of the specifications pre-
pared by such Commission, and the Con-
ditions of Tender specified by such Com-
mission, and must be accompanied by a
deposit of 21 per cent, of the amount of
the tender or £lOO, whichever is the
greater, and by all plans, descriptions and
particulars required by “The Liquor Acts,
1912 to 1952.”
The highest or any tender will not
necessarily be accepted.
DATED at BRISBANE this TWENTY-
THIRD day of SEPTEMBER, 1954.
J. P. McCOY,
Secretary to the Licensing Commission.
Treasury Building, Brisbane. .
“THE LIQUOR ACTS, 1912 to 1952”
(QUEENSLAND) Area 3.
SALE BY PUBLIC TENDER OF
LICENSED VICTUALLER’S LICENSE
TO BE REMOVED TO LOCALITY OF
TOWN OP SOUTH COAST BETWEEN
TALLEBUDGERA CREEK AND COOL-
ANGATTA.
TENDERS will be received at the Office
of the Licensing Commission, Treasury
Building, Queen Street, Brisbane, at or
before 3.30 P.M. on MONDAY, the
THIRTEENTH day of DECEMBER, 1964,
for the sale by public tender of Licensed
Victualler’s License which the Licensing
Commission has determified shall be re-
moved to the locality of Town of South
between Tallebudgera Creek and
is area includes the coastal strip
Tallebudgera Creek to the New South
3 border at Coolangatta, including
Beach, Currumbin, Tugun, Bihnga,
i and Coolangatta. _ „
ader forms. Specifications and too-
ls of Tender may be had on appn-
i to the Secretary, Licensing Oom-
on, Treasury Building, B ™^ e ;
of locality may be inspected at Office
icensing Commission, Brisbane, Clerk,
etty Sessions, Southport, or tiers
etty Sessions, Coolangatta.
ery tender must be on a tender form
ded by the Licensing Commission ana
be in terms of the specificatio
red by such Commission, and me
tions of Tender specified by such
aission, and must be accompanied by
josit of 21 per cent, of the amount
e tender or £lOO, whichever is the
>r and by all plans, descriptions and
?ulam required by “The Liquor Acts.
or any tender will not
sarily be accepted. rrwp\ T TV-
TED at BRISBANE this TWENTY
D day of SEPTEMBER. 1954.
J. P. McCOY. . .
tary to the Licensing Commission,
ury Building, Brisbane.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy, copy of organ setting for
“Valiant [or “Supreme”] Sacrifice” by
Arkwright.—s9o7.
Copy of “The New Zealand Dairy
Exporter,” about 1944 or 1945, con-
taining article on methods of milk-
production on “all-grass farming.” —
5906.
Printed material describing plastic
roofing, with particular reference to
effectiyeness and durability.—s9os,
Copies of newspapers and periodi-
cals containing critical appreciations
of the essays of Walter Murdoch. —
5904.
Publisher wishes to get in touch
urgently with the literary executors of
the following Australian writers:
Maybanke Anderson, Mabel Forrest,
James Hebblethwaite, Frank Hudson,
J. B. O’Hara, Veronica Mason, John
Sandes, Alice Werner, Ann Glenny
Wilson and J. D. Burns.—5910.
Whereabouts of Bertie William
Channell, aged 36 years, of Banks-
town East (N.S.W.), last seen Sydney
Show, April, 1954, is licensed elec-
trician, radio and amplifier mechanic.
—5908.
To buy copies of “The Police
Gazette,” New York, containing series
of articles dealing with the fighting
career of the boxer John L. Sullivan,
published about 25 years ag0.—5909.
Information Sought
Can an ordinary movie-camera be
used to record a “photo-finish” ?
In an ordinary motion-picture
camera the film is moved intermit-
tently; it is still while each picture
is being taken, and is then moved
down into position for the next
picture, the lens being covered by a
rotating shutter during the move-
ment. (Up to 128 pictures a second
can be taken.) The shutter mechan-
ism precludes its use as a “photo-
finish” camera; the essential feature
of which is that it be a single-plate,
“one-minute” camera. Once the
beam is broken, the photo is taken
and developed automatically, and can
be examined in less than two minutes.
» ♦ ♦ *
Some information on author Gerald
Kersh ?
Born at Teddington-on-Thames
(England) on August 6, 1909, he was
educated at the Polytechnic, Regent-
street. He earned his living in a
dozen different ways while learning to
write. He joined the Coldstream
Guards in 1940, became a war-corre-
spondent for “The People” (1943),
was script-writer in the Army Film
Unit (1943), specialist in the Films
Division of the Ministry of Educa-
tion (1943-44) and was accredited to
Shaef (1944). He has been under
contract to M.G.M, as a film-writer.
His first novel, Jews Without Jehovah
(1935), was withdrawn because of
several libel-suits. His other publica-
tions include Men Are So Ardent,
Night and the City, The Nine Lives
of Bill Nelson, Faces in a Dusty
Picture, The Weak and the Strong,
The Thousand Deaths of Mr. Small,
The Brazen Bull, The Great Wash,
Song of the Flea and The Brighton
Monster. He has also written hun-
dreds of stories and articles and some
poetry.
♦ * * ♦
A simple method of testing water
for ( 1 ) sewage, (2) lead, (3) zinc, (4)
copper ?
(1) Add four drops of Condy’s fluid
to a small glass of water. The solu-
tion turns pale or yellow if decom-
posed organic matter is present. (2)
Add six drops of sulphuric acid to the
same amount of water. A white pre-
cipitate will be found if lead is pre-
sent. (3) Add six drops of ferro-
cyanide of potassium to a small glass
of water. Green will appear if zinc
is present. (4) Add eight drops of
ammonia to the same amount of
water, If the liquid contains copper
it will turn a pale blue.
• ♦ * •
Who were the Fifth Monarchy
Men ?
A religious sect that arose in Eng-
land in the time of Cromwell; they
thought his government was a pre-
paration for the “fifth monarchy,”
during which Christ should reign on
earth. They advocated a code of
law based on that of Moses, and when
they saw their hopes not likely to be
fulfilled, turned against Cromwell.
After the Restoration they rose in
insurrection and were suppressed;
Venner, their leader, and ten others
were executed for high treason.
♦ * * •
(7) List of biographies by Hilaire
Belloc ? (2) Histories of the American
Civil War ? (3) Can all these works
be bought in Australia, and, if so,
where ? (4) Also, are there bio-
graphies of General R. E. Lee,
“Stonewall” Jackson and Jeb Stuart?
(1) They include studies and lives of
Danton (1899), Robespierre (1901),
Marie Antoinette (1909), James II
(1928) Joan of Arc (1929), Richelieu
(1929) Wolsey (1930), Cranmer
(1931), Napoleon (1932), Charles I
(1933), William the Conqueror (1933),
Cromwell (1934) and Milton (1935).
(2) History of the Civil War in the
United States, 1861-65, by W. B.
Wood and J. E. Edmonds (1905); The
American Revolution, by G. O.
Trevelyan (1905-12); War Between the
States, by A. H. Stephens (1867), an
excellent exposition of Southern
views; The War for Southern Inde-
pendence, by G. E. Charming (1925);
History of the Confederate War, by
G. C. Eggleston (1910); The Civil
War in America, by W. G. Shotwell
(1923); The American Civil War, by
J. Formby (1910); The Confederate
States of America, by J. C. Schwab
(1901); Rise and Fall of the Con-
federate Government, by Jefferson
Davis (1881). (3) Difficult to say.
Contact Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 281
George-street, Sydney, or other
secondhand booksellers, and order the
books required. It may not be pos-
sible for the order to be fulfilled
immediately, but you should in time
be certain of picking-up some of the
works (all of which should be avail-
able anyway at public libraries). (4)
Lee —General Lee, hy Fitzhugh Lee;
Robert E. Lee the Soldier, by Sir F.
Maurice; Lee the American, by G.
Bradford (1929); R. E. Lee, a Bio-
graphy, by Douglas S. Freeman (4
vols., 1934-35). Jackson —Stonewall
Jackson and the American Civil War,
by G. F. R. Henderson (1898);
Memories of Stonewall Jackson, by
M. A. Jackson (1895); Life and Cam-
paigns of T. J. Jackson (Stonewall
Jackson), by R. L. Dabney (1866);
Stonewall Jackson, the Good Soldier,
by A. Tate (1928). Stuart — Life, by
H. B. McClellan (1881).
Brief Answers
C.S.: Openers only need be dis-
closed. Not having paid for the in-
formation, the other players are not
entitled to know the full basis of the
bet.,..5.5.: Such a notice could not
protect you from ap action for
damage done by a fire arising out of
any act of negligence by yourself or
your servants, but in the case of a
purely accidental fire you would not
be liable W.S.H.: (1) Dig up the
clumps and store them in a dry
place. Leave the soil attached to
them; it will fall off when it dries.
Divide the clumps when the tubers
start in growth about November, and
cut them carefully so that each tuber
has a neck with a shoot, (2) Dust
with equal parts of lime and tobacco
dust G.E.G.: Write Federal Govt.
Printer, Canberra, A.C.T F.W.:
Write Snowy Mountains Hydro-Elec-
tric Authority, Yurong-street, Sydney.
NJ.: Write Beck Book Co. Ltd.,
17-19 Pulteney-street, Adelaide....
P.S.R.: Concise Usage and Abusage
by Eric Partridge, published by
Hamish Hamilton Ltd., London
C.H.D.: Write A. H. and A. W.
Reed, 182 Wakefield-street, Welling-
ton (N.Z.) C.T.: The boundaries
of the City of Sydney were extended
from the beginning of 1949 to incor-
porate eight former suburban muni-
cipalities. The municipalities were
Alexandria, Darlington, Erskineville,
Glebe, Newtown, Paddington, Red-
fern and Waterloo.. . .A.P.M.: Dig
up the clumps, divide them and re-
plant in rows 6in. apart. Apply no
fertiliser or manure and give very
little water. Regular dustings with
lime are helpful R.D.: The point
is not dealt with in any books on
the game, but the dealer’s right is
undoubted on general principles
A.G.R.: L. S. Beale’s How to Work
with the Microscope and Beavis’s
Book of the Microscope contain the
information you need N-C.: The
essential treatment is frequent wash-
ing of the scalp. Use soap spirit and
wash it out with two or three fresh
washings F.S.: It is covered by the
N. Police Offences Act, which
provides that “whosoever posts or
otherwise affixes any placard or other
paper upon any wall or building”
shall be liable to a penalty, and
penalties are imposed when offenders
are caught in the act J. 8.: The
scales should be sprayed in their
younger stages, usually during Novem-
ber and January, with a solution of
Hlb. washing-soda crystals in 4
gallons of water M.S.: Any good
shoe-polish, rubbed in with a flannel
and brushed with a soft cloth, will be
found satisfactory. The coat must be
cleaned before application of polish.
V.P.: The use of bluestone in
water containing goldfish is attended
with considerable risk. The algae can
be killed by shielding the aquarium
with brown paper for about a week.
H.M.: The seeds should be
planted in the spring, lin. to 2in.
deep, in seed-beds in warm situations.
Keep the beds moist M.8.T.:
Official distances from Sydney, via
main roads, are measured from an
obelisk in Macquarie-place, and not
from the G.P.O L.D.: Griselda
was the heroine of a folk-story, ver-
sions of which are to be found in the
works of Boccaccio, of Chaucer and
Petrarch. She was a very beautiful
peasant girl who was wooed by a
marquis. She became his wife, and
to assure himself of the worth and
stability of her character he put her
to the severest ordeals, through all
of which she passed successfully.,..
C.C.: A review of Douglas
Stewart’s Shipwreck appeared on “The
Red Page” of The Bulletin of July
23, 1947....W.8.: E. M. England
was born at Townsville (Q.), and was
educated at Sydney and Ipswich. She
began writing at a very early age and
has contributed verse, short stories
and articles to many Australian jour-
nals, including The Bulletin. Two
books of verse, The Happy Monarch
and Other Verses (1927) and Queens-
land Days (1944), have been published.
E.S.: Llewelyn Lucas was bom at
Harkaway (Vic.), and was educated at
Melbourne University. She has writ-
ten extensively for various publica-
tions, including The Bulletin, besides
contributing music and gardening
notes to the “Brisbane Courier.” Two
books of verse, The Garden (Mel-
bourne, 1935) and On Wings (Bris-
bane, 1943), have been published
C.E.McD.: The Coilaroy, a 402-tons
paddle-steamer, was wrecked on Janu-
ary 20, 1881, on the beach north of
Manly (N.S.W.) which now carries the
steamer’s name. Refloated in Sep-
tember, 1884, she was rigged as a
schooner, and was wrecked on the
coast of California in June, 1889
W.M.A.: Write The Library Shelf, 20
Florence-road, Surrey Hills (Vic.)
W. 8.: Particulars posted. Further
information may be obtained from the
Secretary, Commonwealth Literary
Fund, Prime Minister’s Dept., Can-
berra, A.C.T E.U.K.: From
Shakespeare Head Press, 168 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney R.G.: The
poem “Benjamin Bandicoot” was
written by “Banjo” Paterson and
appeared in The Animals Noah For-
got, published by the Endeavour
Press, Sydney F.J.8.: Halsbury’s
Laws of England (Third Edition), Vol.
3, page 45, says “A barrister is under
an obligation to accept a brief in the
courts in which he professes to prac-
tise at a proper professional fee,
unless there are special circumstances
which justify his refusal to accept a
particular brief” D.S.: Psychiatry
To-day by David Stafford-Clark, in the
Pelican Series L.G.C.: References
to Miles Franklin’s All That Swagger
appeared in The Bulletin of the
following dates: July 29, 1936, August
28, 1936, December 9, 1936, and
December 30, 1936 A.S.: Write
James Patrick and Co., 33-35 Pitt-
street, Sydney J.V.D.8.: Write L.
J. Wood, Centralian Resources, Room
44, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.C.V.: Your Muse is too much
the soap-box orator P.M.P.: No
distinction in style or matter....
R.E.: More substance than shadow.
M.L.: Your ear is out of tune.
A.D.: It had quite a long journey
before it reached the w.p.b G.R.:
It’s not exactly poetry, but we’ll print
a short extract:
When brown boronia scents the spring
In scrub and bush about Port Hacking,
Sinewy hikers all shout and sing,
And, with food condensed, go at crack-
ing
Of dawn to gullies, gorges, mountain
peaks
To splash ’neath waterfalls and in the
creeks.
R.F.F.: We are a little shy of
the swagman who flings himself down
on a grassy bank and announces that
he is “Dame Nature’s Guest”
8.M.: Prevention of suicide by occur-
rence of gas strike has been exploited
before... .J.D.: Room for the last
crashing stanza: —
His big brown eyes just blinked at me,
As if he was a blinking frog,
For my new-wed hubby, darling Freddie,
Was shickered with the grog.
....A.8.L.: Clerk who intends rob-
bing his firm and ends up by thwart-
ing a brunch of crooks with the same
mission calls on us every six weeks.
....S.O’D.: Your road to Arcady is
in need of repair... .R.L.: Be merci-
ful and buy your typewriter a new
ribbon N.T,: Can’t make even a
guess at the meaning of most of it.
F.L.H.: Tty telling a yam with-
out using some old beer-sparrer as an
intermediary F.W.: This paper is
printed in English; Gaelic poems not
wanted..,. .F.McA.; No use for yams
which commence with a round-table
discussion at which all the speakers
talk like professors A.H.:
“Attached hereto please find two
poems which you may consider worthy
of publication in your paper.” And
one is a variation of “Not Under-
stood,” and the other a variation of
“If” W.N,: More apt to bring
tears than laughter... .H.L.A.:
Hector wastes time spouting about the
scenery P.F.: Having picked sty-
lish names for your characters, your
imagination gave out P.H.: Old
Dan isn’t strong enough to creep into
print... ,R.K.: Don’t think any editor
would want to shelter the old cove.
....R.K.W.: Rough and ready....
P.F.R.: Liked “Snow,’’ but not to the
extent of devoting a full page to
him R. 8.: Don’t want half-
column sketches of walks on beaches
or in gardens H.C.: Couldn’t
consider contributions like yours
unless we were publishing an annual
encyclopaedia E.F.: Melodramatic
nonsense... .W.W.: A poet who can
rhyme “forceps” with “doorsteps”
should never be stuck for a rhyme...
P.D.: Well, it’s an idea worth con-
sideration :
Call after him of cricket renown,
A lovely Australian country town.
Aye, I would be proud and glad, man,
To live in a town called Bradman.
.... A.F.L.: Dreary beginning,
drearier finish... .8.L.5.: Cat-
burglar can’t clamber in here....
W.M.: “The crimson sun sinks in
the west” is a fatal opening....
J M.J.: Won’t be sending you a
copy of the paper in which it
appears”....N.H.: Give up reading
cowboy stories... .M.F.G.: Put some
dialogue into the story; surely they
are not ah dumb 8.T.5.: Very
well, we’ll put it on record:
0 Mary, Mary, Mary sweet.
Oh, I’ll forget thee never;
And may thou do the same for me, ®
And ne’er forget me ever.
K.A.: Have met the Maori in
more mirthful moods L.S.: Glad
to have your authority for the state-
ment that you’re not too good as a
poet.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
w
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BA R RE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAERERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
PENS
m
m
id
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
A Bit of a Mystery
James Hackston
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
VOU won’t find James
Hackston in Who’s Who
in Australia, under that
or any other name. Thirty
years ago Fred Johns, editor and
founder of the invaluable
reference-book, sent him a form.
“But I never filled it in,” James
Hackston explained, “for, when
I read the form, and among the
other questions came across the
questions: ‘Names of pastoral
properties of which owner’ and
‘Names of companies of which
director,’ I was too proud, then,
to admit that I did not own any
pastoral properties nor was I a
director of companies. So 1
kept the form as a souvenir.”
That is typical James
Hackston,
The Bulletin has known him
as a black-and-white artist for
more than 40 years ; he also
paints in oils. These activities
were under his own name but,
for writing, he uses the
pseudonym “James Hackston.”
It was not until 1936 that the first
of his “Father” stories appeared
in The Bulletin. On three
occasions—in the stories “The
Horse from Bungowanna-
winnie,” “Our New Properties”
and “Father Clears Out”—that
astonishingly ingenious and
ineffectual parent has turned up
in Coast to Coast. He is in
Australian Short Stories, an
anthology edited by Walter
Murdoch and Henrietta Drake-
Brockman, and will cut a figure
in an anthology edited by Don
Edwards. And an organisation
which makes gramophone-
recordings of fiction for the
exclusive use of the blind has
honored “Father” with a record-
ing. So, in a comparatively short
time, this figure has found a
place in the select circle of
fictional characters who are likely
to make a permanent contribu-
tion to the Australian scene.
In his Creative Writing in
Australia J. K. Ewers has this to
say about Hackston:
A humorist of no mean order,
who in a series of stories has
created an inimitable “father” full
of bluff and bravado and gran-
diose schemes which never even-
tuate. He is nicely offset by a
patient and understanding
“mother” who debunks his
quixotic dreaming by taking no
notice of it and going on carrying
the brunt of keeping the home-
fires burning.
In a letter to The Bulletin
Hackston told something of the
original:
My “Father” stories are built
on my own indefatigable sire, and
though they, to some, readers, may
read like pure fiction, and, in
parts, a little too fantastic to have
really happened, yet, for all that,
most of the incidents happened at
one time or another, certain
scenes actually took place, the
men and the women acted so.
Although Father did not leave
us any of the vast fortunes he
pursued so industriously, still,
though he was a never-ending
dreamer, he was no loafer, and
even if he did fail to make good
financially, he did not absolutely
fail in life, for his life has given
much to laugh at in the pages of
The Bulletin, in which I have,
I think, erected a monument to
him, a literary history to remem-
ber him by, and what more could
any father want than that?
Father was one of a type of
Englishman who left the family
nest to conquer far fields . . .
And England must have had other
such inventive, cocksure, imagina-
tive fathers who were bits of
characters, for, although my own
English father did invent many
things which brought a hopeless
smile to our faces at the time —a
water-wheel which was to make
water run up hill and the famous
self-stjrring porridge-pot—l could
not help smiling and admitting
that Father was nothing out of
the ordinary when I read that
Osbert Sitwell’s father had in-
vented a musical toothbrush that,
when used to clean the teeth,
played “Annie Laurie.” So there
you are. It’s in their blood and
Dickens fed on them.
From which, apart from the
light thrown on this interesting
synthesis of life and fiction, the
discerning reader will note the
similarity between Hackston’s
literary style and his private
correspondence. The long
sentence which, just when the
reader is beginning to tire of it,
uncoils in an unexpected gleam
of humor or twist of meaning,
the short sharp sentence as a
contrast, a sort of tap of the
hammer, and the subtle shifting
of emphasis in punctuation. To
sub-edit Hackston by any hard-
and-fast rules would be to
destroy the charm of his
individuality.
James Hackston —to keep to
his literary name —was born at
Ryde (N.S.W.) 66 years ago,
and went to a little bush
school in the same State.
Later, when his father went in
for mining, young Hackston
became his helper and mate; like
Henry Lawson, who was “His
Father’s Mate.” One of the
earliest mining stories, “The
Lead Button,” won a Bulletin
story competition. “There was
no fiction about jt,” Hackston
says. “It happened.”
After leaving the bush
Hackston worked for a legal
firm for several years, and during
that period served summonses
on thousands of the best people.
It was while he was chasing
debtors —all clients of money-
lenders —that he drew his first
political cartoon for The
Bulletin, a drawing featuring
that gift to black-and-white
artists, “Yes-No” Reid. After
this success Hackston decided to
leave his job for the more stimu-
lating and hazardous career of
a freelance artist.
His first acceptance in his new
calling was a drawing he sold to
Melbourne “Table Talk” for the
princely sum of 2s. 6d. “Table
Talk” is dead now. After that
it could scarcely survive. He
studied with Alex Sass and
shared a studio with Sass and
Harry Weston. On Sundays he
inked-in parts of the full-page
drawings Sass did for Melbourne
“Punch” every week. He was
also the model for most of Sass’s
“Lone Hand” drawings and
book-illustrations. During this
time he inked-in some of
Ambrose Dyson’s cartoons for
the “Pastoral Review” when
Dyson’s hand was too shaky for
the task. And, like Norman
Lindsay in his young days, he
sometimes “ghosted” for other
ar tists
When Will Dyson left for
England, Hackston was invited
to contribute theatrical carica-
tures to The Bulletin, and did
so for about 18 years. About
this time he began to do carica-
tures of sporting celebrities, and,
later, had all kinds of drawings
in the paper. He even had a
full-page cartoon on a poster—
which must be something, if not
PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN
unique, at least highly unusual.
But his versatility didn’t end
there. He has written for the
“Red Page,” has had material on
the leader-page, has covered
many a boxing event, written
verse and did a fair amount of
writing for the paper’s old
“Poverty Point” in the days
when Norman Campbell, Eardley
Turner, Louis Paul, Edmund
Fisher, Harold Mercer, Louis
Esson and Thorold Waters were
writing for that theatrical page.
In fact, he has been one of The
Bulletin’s best all-round con-
tributors. And The Bulletin
has had —and has—some dis-
tinguished contributors.
For a short period he was an
Adelaide “News” artist. Two
other “News” artists who were
also Bulletin contributors were
Oswald Pryor and J. A. Pearce.
When Ambrose Dyson died
Hackston did football cartoons
for the Melbourne “Herald,” and
was, at one time, one of the long
line of artists who worked on
Melbourne “launch.” Among
Bulletin artists who were at
one time or another on the staff
of that paper were Alf Vincent,
Claude Marquet, Hugh McCrae,
Charles Nuttall, S. G. Wells,
Len Reynolds and Percy Leason.
Although he has never been
outside Australia, many of his
caricatures and cartoons have
been reproduced in overseas
journals. He was particularly
pleased when the English
humorous paper “Ally Sloper’s
Half Holiday” reproduced his
Bulletin cartoon “An English-
man’s Home.”
He was closely associated with
David Low during the seven or
eight years Low spent in Mel-
bourne, and can tell stories about
that gifted black-and-white man
until the milkman has taken the
last Bohemian home. The best
stories are always forgotten, of
course; or, divorced from the
spontaneity of the moment, the
physical mimicry and the warmth
of personality, lose much in the
retelling. But one remembered is
about a steamroller. Low, a con-
scientious artist, had to do a
Bulletin cartoon with a steam-
roller in it, but had no pictures
of steamrollers to check on
details. So he rang up Mel-
bourne City Council and asked
where he could see one. The
man in charge, recognising the
importance of this project, said
he would be delighted to send
one round to the studio —and
did.
On another occasion David
Low had to do a caricature of
a well-known Tasmanian poli-
tician. The politician made it a
condition of the sitting that Low
should show him the rough
sketch when he had finished it;
if he liked the drawing, he would
allow him to put it in The
Bulletin, but if he did not
approve of it Low was to tear it
up. Low agreed. The completed
drawing was presented for
inspection; after glancing at it,
the politician tore it to pieces.
Low made no comment, but did
another caricature from memory.
The caricaturist’s pencil can be
a cruel weapon.
But caricaturists, if occasion-
ally cruel, are offered extra-
ordinary temptations. Hackston
called on a man to do a drawing
of him, and the subject was
appreciative of the honor. He
brushed his suit, combed his hair,
and anxiously inspected himself
in the mirror. Then —after a
considerable time—informed the
artist that he was ready. When
the drawings faithfully record-
ing these activities appeared in
The Bulletin, the victim was
furious.
On the same subject
Hackston told me he did carica-
tures of a group of businessmen,
as a composite picture. One of
the subjects kept insisting that
he didn’t like publicity—didn’t
care for that sort of things—etc..
His friends protested, and,
finally, after a good deal of
coaxing and leg-pulling, the
modest gentleman yielded.
Thinking it over afterwards,
Hackston decided it was wrong
to force a man to be drawn;
and the sketch wasn’t a good one.
So he left him out. The
Bulletin was hardly published
before the man was on the
phone. He was furious, too.
It must be more than 20 years
since I last saw James Hackston,
although we write to each other
from time to time. I met him
first in Bill Snudden’s Star Hotel,
next to The Bulletin office in
George-street, Sydney. He was
with a group of Bulletin artists
who had just collected their
cheques from kindly Tom
McMahon, The Bulletin
accountant. Besides Hackston
the group included Percy
Lindsay, Mick Paul, Fred Brown,
Hugh Maclean, and one or two
others. I remember that I was
impressed by Hackston’s boyish
appearance—he was then in his
middle forties —and by his quick
and lively wit. In a company of
marvellous story-tellers he more
than held his own. I have long
forgotten the conversation,
except for one contribution by
Hackston. He mentioned the
letters received by newspapers
finding fault with artists for not
drawing axes, guns, ploughs,
bullock-teams, saws, saddles,
knives, scissors, spades, shovels,
carts and a thousand and one
other items in a correct way.
These critics, Hackston re-
marked, were often right. He
knew one artist who couldn’t
draw an axe, and he knew of
another who nearly wrecked his
life by drawing a bullock-driver
on the wrong side of the team.
Some bullock-drivers up-country
sent the artist a letter of protest,
which upset him so much that
the next week, having to do a
drawing of a man getting on a
horse, he forgot to add stirrups
to the saddle.
Something that has always
impressed me about Hackston is
his extraordinary memory. In a
letter to me he mentioned his
“Father” stories, and said: “I
didn’t have to write them really;
didn’t have to think what Father
would say next. It was all wait-
ing for me.” In the same letter
he also said: “The multitudinous
events in my life are indelibly
written in my brain, and are
always ready to pop out.” I can
well believe him. Sometimes,
reading his stories about the
bush, I get the impression that
stored in his mind are photo-
graphs of every rock, boulder,
log, stump and tree he has ever
seen.
We were yarning at the old
Sydney Press Club one night, and
the talk turned to recollections of
early childhood. Hackston told
me he remembered most dis-
tinctly being wheeled in a peram-
bulator by a boy with a
shanghai. He didn’t know it was
a shanghai then; but he took
stock of the shape of it hanging
out of the boy’s pocket. Then a
passing boy grabbed the
shanghai and ran off with it, and
Hackston’s young guardian set
off after him, and Hackston,
(Continued on page 27)


TUCKER & CO.
PTY. LTD.
I ESTB. 1838
CHATEAU
TAN UN DA
"The Brandy of Distinction”
CAPSTAN
Old ttavj?
RUM
“ The Spirit of the Sugar Cane’’
THE CHOICE / OF // ROYALTY
WHOLESALE
DISTBEBUTOB3 OP .
V^VN£^
WHISKY
' The Preferred Whisky ’
SOLS
V.O. GENEVER
and LIQUEURS
•WORLD FAMOUS SINCE 1575’
HIGHLAND CREAM
"Perfection of
Old Scotch Whisky"
EX PORT
LAGER BEER
“ Lager at its Best "
SPORTING NOTIONS
Racing at Randwick this
afternoon (Wednesday) isn’t
likely to make much difference
to the betting position of fancied
horses for the Metropolitan on
Saturday; but, of course, one
never knows.
Known stayers with sound
form figure at the top of the
weights. Main lightweight dan-
ger seems to be Half Past; with
7.7, he’s expected to make a bold
bid for first place. Other
stayers with excellent recent
form may be too solid but, any-
way, Half Past has been brought
to top form at the right time.
MASTER PROVEN is
selected to win the Metropolitan
from HALF PAST and ADVO-
CATE.
Delville Wood (imp.) was a
high-class stayer in England.
Standing at Kia Ora stud (Scone,
N.S.W.), his progeny has won
upwards of £lOO,OOO in Aus-
tralia. His best son. Hydrogen,
winner of £57,179 in stakes, won
a Victoria Derby for E. R.
Williams (same owner’s Forest
Beau won a Q.T.C. Derby) and,
on Saturday, another son, Prince
Delville, added to his sire’s repu-
tation by easily beating Telyar
and Eight Bells (both bred in
N.Z.) to win the £lO,OOO A.J.C.
Derby. Prince Delville’s breed-
ing lines have been examined on
this page before; but it is inter-
esting to note in passing that the
colt comes from the same family
as Swynford and Chaucer, two
noted names in the history of
the English turf. A brother of
Prince Delville was sold at the
Randwick yearling sales last
Easter for 3600 guineas, to a
patron of M. McCarten.
Prince Delville cost owners
(Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bradshaw)
2200gns. as a yearling: as
the Derby stake was £7792, the
colt is well on the credit side of
the ledger. Ridden in Jim Pike
fashion by Ray Selkrig (who can
go to the scales at 7.6) the Derby
winner was sent to the starting
post in grand order by Stan
Lamond, a trainer of wide
experience, from a family of
trainers. The Lamonds appear
pretty frequently in the pages of
the Australian Turf Register.
Stan’s father was a trainer, and
so was his grandfather, Tom
Lamond, who won four A.J.C.
Derbies —with Kingsborough
(1874), Nellie (1879), Wheatear
(1881) and Charge (1896).
Stan Lamond also won the
A.J.C. Derby with Moorland in
1943. Prince Delville was 6.12
on the Melbourne Cup weights,
but winning the classic auto-
matically advanced this to 7.6
(weight-for-age), The Derby
win will bring him into Cup
prominence.
• • • •
A modest field, particularly in
numbers (from an entry of 39),
will line-up for the £3OOO Craven
Plate (1| miles) at Randwick
this afternoon. This popular
weight-for-age race has long been
the feature event of “Ladies’
Day” ; winners include some of
the best horses seen in Austra-
lasia. Top performers have won
the Craven Plate as many as
three times. Phar Lap was
successful in 1929-’3O-’31 —
first, as a three-year-old, with
7.8, Bill Duncan up, the other
two times with Jim Pike. Chat-
ham won in 1932-’33-’34, with
different jockeys—Jim Munro,
Jim Pike, and Stan Davidson.
Pike —who obviously had a fair
run of success in this race ; also
with Phar Lap—won on Peter
Pan. Other notable gallopers on
the list of winners: Beauford,
Gloaming, Limerick, Windbag,
Beau Vite, Amounis, Flight and
Hydrogen.
• • • •
Star attraction at Caulfield
opening-day on Saturday will be
the 5000 Guineas, one mile;
£2500 Toorak Handicap, one
mile, is the second race of im-
portance to be run the same
afternoon. Performances of
entrants for the Caulfield Cup
will be closely watched on Satur-
day, in the various races in
which they have been entered.
It isn’t in the best interests of
racing that the final day of the
A.J.C. spring meeting should so
frequently clash with the open-
ing day of the Caulfield spring
carnival; although, admitted, the
problem isn’t an easy one to
solve. With the Metropolitan
on the last day of the Randwick
meeting this year, fewer Sydney
horses are likely to be found in
the Caulfield line-up. Air-travel
has speeded-up the transport of
horses from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, but rushing horses be-
tween States on race mornings
has disadvantages.
Although the topweight in the
Metrop. has won the last three
years—Carioca (9.7) last year,
Dalray (9.1) two years back, and
Delta (9.5) three years ago—the
law of averages is against suc-
cess by the horse with No. 1
saddlecloth. Over the years
horses carrying between 8.7 and
7.7 have been the winners,
although a few early ones had
“We are now taking you over to Randwick for the
last race."
9st, and more, including Beau
Vite (9.4), Rebus (9.10), and
Malt King (9.1); a good few
years between these wins.
• • • •
Both Carioca (7 to 4) and
Dalray (6 to 4) started favorite.
Other winning favorites since
1929 were Cragford, Denis Boy,
Royal Chief, Feminist, Beau
Vite and Count Cyrano. When
Rebus won in 1919 he equalled
the weight-carrying record for a
Metrop. winner. The Barb won
with 9.10 in 1868, when the race
was two miles. Metrop. was
established in 1866.
•
Considering the sunny
weather and an attractive pro-
gramme 56,500 at Randwick on
Derby Day was a bit light —
71,000-odd turned up for the
corresponding day last spring,
But A.J.C. secretary W. N.
Parry-Okeden seemed happy—
he expects the aggregate to be
well over 200,000 when Metrop.
figures are added to the first
three days. But that depends on
the weather. Record for the four
days is about 250,000. V.R.C.
had 25,856 at Flemington last
Saturday, a sharp drop on last
year’s figures.
• • • •
First two-year-old races of the
Melbourne and Sydney seasons,
at Flemington and Randwick,
aroused the usual interest,
Kingster, winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, looks a nice colt,
He’s the first of the progeny of
the new English sire. Star
Kingdom, to sport silk. Star
Kingdom had a number of
winners at the two-year-old
trials. A son of Star Dust, the
stallion did well as a two-year-
old, starting in six races for five
wins and a second. He won
nine races in England and
£12,352 in stakes. Kingster, a
lOOOgns. yearling, is from an
imported dam, Canvas Back, by
William of Valence from
Canvas, by Solario from Scuttle
by Captain Cuttle. Scuttle, the
colt’s granddam, won the One
Thousand Guineas and other
races for King George V.
Milanda, favorite for the
Breeders’ Plate, missed the jump
and came last. This performance
can be forgotten.
• * • •
Miss Bridget, easy winner and
warm favorite for the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes for fillies,
is raced by her breeder, Geoffrey
Armstrong, of Sydney. By
Squander Bug from Coble
Bridge (imp.) by Solferino.
Squander Bug is in his first
season as a sire. Only three
yearlings by him at the Randwick
sales, but they brought good
prices. He won 11 races in
England, two with more than
9st. A son of Gold Bridge, he is
from Love of Gain by Gains-
borough (Derby, St. Leger, etc.).
Carbine figures in his pedigree.
Chetnik, winner of the first
division for colts and geldings of
the Maribymong Trial Stakes,
cost 1200gns. as a yearling. A
son of Neapolitan (imp.) from
Erambie by Iliad (imp.) and
related to Rapier, a winner of the
New Zealand Cup. Several good
New Zealand horses in the colt’s
family-tree. Sharatz, the colt
that downed odds-on favorite
Rope Trick in the second
division, is by High Peak (imp.)
from Ambika by Dhoti (imp.),
and is closely related to Don
Pedro (£17,218 in stakes) and
Precept (V.R.C. Derby). A
600gns. yearling, the colt is in
Fred Hoysted’s stable.
Betting on the V.R.C. weight-
for-age Turnbull Stakes, run over
the Caulfield Cup distance (li
miles) indicated there was little
between Rising Fast, Cromis and
Surprise Ending, and they
finished in that order. But
Rising Fast was vastly superior
to his opponents, and improved
sharply on his second to Flying
Halo in the Underwood Stakes
two days before. Rising Fast
consolidated his Caulfield Cup
position and he is followed by
two other New Zealanders*
Gendarme and Surprise Ending.
Cromis is much easier in the
market. His owners have had
an exasperating run of four
successive seconds with the four-
year-old son of Helios (imp.), to
say nothing of the amount
punters have lost in the process,
Rising Fast’s only other run
before the Caulfield Cup will be
in the Caulfield Stakes (w.-f.-a.)
on Wednesday of next week.
three days before the big race.
Zealand horse Gendarme
heads the Melbourne Cup bet-
ting, with Master Proven,
Surprise Ending and Wodalla
on the second line.
At this time of the year stayers
are in full racing trim for the
Cups, and those with an engage-
ment in the Melbourne Cup are
regularly to be found among
winners in the various States,
Sunish, a contender for the two-
miler, narrowly defeated King
Amana in the V.R.C. Stand
Handicap, 13 furlongs, at
Flemington last Saturday, and
has firmed for the Flemington
highlight. He is a five-year-old
by Empyrean (imp.) from Rhoda,
'a staying-bred mare by Enfield
(imp.). Sunish has 8.10 in the
Melbourne Cup, and it is in his
favor that he has twice won at
the Cup distance. Last season
his wins included the Caulfield
Inkerman Handicap, 2 miles
65yds., and the Australian Cup,
2 miles \\ furlongs. In the
latter he carried 8.9, so he could
h e a Melbourne Cup danger with
on ly more, #
* *
Australia’s Peter Thomson,
described by an American golt-
writer at the time of the recent
Tam o’ Shanter games as one
of the hottest tournament pro-
fessionals” then in the U.S., won
the British professional match-
play championship at St.
Andrews. The final game, in
which he beat Scotsman Johnny
Fallon, was a dramatic affair.
Thomson is only the third golfer
(and the first from overseas) to
win both British Open and the
match-play tourney in the same
year.
« * *
Port Melbourne, last year’s
V.F.A. premiers, and Wilhams-
town have run neck-and-neck
on points right through the sea-
son, well ahead of the rest of
the field, with Port a nose in
front most of the time. ’Town
had beaten Port first time they
met, but Port had a two-goal
margin in the second semi-final
and was favored to do even
better in the grand-final at St.
Kilda on Saturday. ’Town, how-
ever, won (11.20-7.12), and thus
wins the 1954 V.F.A. premier-
ship. The Seagulls were far too
strong, particularly in the air
and in the rucks. Keeping Port
down to a point in the first
quarter (4.7-0.1 at first change),
they were never headed. With
the V.F.L. finishing the previ-
ous week, the Association had its
best roll-up for the year (40,000).
♦ ♦ ♦
Five champions lined-up for
the world’s amateur billiards
tournament, played at Hordern’s
pavilion, Sydney Showground-
two Australians (Cleary and
Marshall), an Englishman
(Edwards), a S’African (Rees)
and a former champion of India,
Wilson Jones. Cleary won and
Marshall was runner - up.
Previous reigning champ., Eng-
lishman Les Driffield, didn’t start
this year.
• • • •
Cleary and Marshall both
made 35 breaks of more than
100 and nine of more than 200;
Cleary’s best break was 682,
Marshall’s 407 (latter holds
world’s-record for an amateur,
702). Marshall, who’d already
won the world’s title three times
(1936, 1938 and 1951), recently
beat Cleary for the Australian
title; there can’t be much
between the two. Incidentally,
Marshall is from W.A., birth-
place of Walter Lindrum, who
gave some valuable assistance
in the organisation of the
tournament.
Like the late Battling Siki (beat
Carpentier; then was trusting
enough to fight Mike McTigue,
in Ireland, on St, Patrick’s Day)
Eddie Dione is a French-
Senegalese. Fighting at 10.9
Eddie beat Alfie Sands (10.11) at
Leichhardt, and local enthusiasts
think he might beat American
Negro Freddie Dawson, now
managed by ex-politician Arthur.
Dawson has been considered
almost invincible in these parts
for some years —ever since he
beat Vic Patrick, in fact —and
has functioned partly as a
destroyer of Australian white
hopes, partly as a local boy. A
dual-role which he fills admir-
ably. He obviously likes fighting
here, and the fans, despite the
occasional harsh treatment he
deals out to the native-born, like
Dawson.
< • • •
Sands, in better condition than
he has been for some time, forced
the fight, but he found Dione’s
defence hard to penetrate. The
Senegalese shot scores of clean
punches home to Sands’s head
and body. Dione’s left landed
below the belt in round six, mak-
ing Sands squirm, but the coal-
black boy was well in front on
points at the end of round 10.
Sands did a bit better in the
11th, but Dione’s straight-lefts
landed so often in the last round
that a points decision in his
favor was the only one possible.
*
Semi-finals in the N.S.W-
amateur boxing championships
were crowd-pleasers, particu-
larly the Keegan-Kirby heavy-
weight clash, and the light-heavy-
weights Bates and McDonald.
Keegan beat Kirby onpoj,
Bates did likewise to McDonald.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. 0. Parker,
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director. P. BURDON. Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
kuv mom safe*
SANDERS
jj&fc FILES
Correspondence, lor olc»>
•tatements. etc., filed In the
"Sander*** can be «ecurely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.ontb—or
any other period.
ŵ
Price* and fur-
ther information
tape* application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Leo,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aurt.)
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
/
/ { IT
U:
\
llilii
•::,y ,:•■
g
m
I ••
/1
A
S3S?®’
S|B|
1
H
Suited fov
Ifee
Occasion...
• • • in a Dinner Suit by Stoiruncfc
, Your “Special-Occasion” suit has to be
special.. , comfortable, yet smoothly-fitted; smart,
yet styled with careful good-taste; durable, to
give you years and years of wear.
Stamina Dinner Suits are tailored ~.
from top-grade Crusader Pure Wool Cloth
selected, styled, cut by specialists . . . for men of
discrimination.
A Stamina Dinner Suit is pre-tailoring
at its superb best. . .
CIOTHII_
D 51.113
ASK FOR
Stamina
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
wouldn’t like me to go looking
through any of it.”
“Ah, well,” Viki said wistfully,
engaging Rhoda on the weaker
point, “at least you’ll have the
pleasure of being rid of me.”
This was really aimed to bring
the mother to her side, and Mrs.
Kraftmann played out her
allotted part.
“Don’t be unkind to your
sister, please, Rhoda. After all
we don’t see much of her.”
“Quite enough, thinks Rhoda,”
Viki filled in, looking at the
others with a smart grin and a
cocked eyebrow.
“If you must know,” Rhoda
said furiously, allowing Viki to
put her in the wrong and hating
her for it, and hating herself for
always falling into the trap,
“yes ; quite enough.”
“Poor Rhoda is worried,” was
the best her mother could do for
h er
d u a . • , • ,
Rhoda certain y was
account-books ; books which no
one but himself was allowed to
touch. And here she was, in
response to an ultimatum from
Breyley, smuggling them out to
him after signing the authority
for him to audit them.
Kraftmann sat in the front
seat beside Alec, not taking much
notice of the chit-chat in the
rear; occupied with ponderous
business thoughts as he usually
was when on the way to town’
not giving a thought to Rhoda,
what she might be thinking,
feeling or doing,
Once in town Rhoda wanted
to set off immediately and alone
with her parcel. For once she
didn’t want to be taken any-
where with it, and for once Alec,
encouraged and abetted by his
mother, insisted that he drive her
because it was so hot.
Rhoda had to tell a lot of
inept fibs about its being only a
short distance, and so on, to get
out of it, and then most
secretively she set out on the
long walk to Breyley’s lodgings.
She was terrified of taking the
much-safer course of going to
his office with the parcel, because
of a ghastly fear that her father
might see her, guess what she
had, pursue her, and make a
terrible scene in front of all the
accountants and their refined
female secretaries.
However, it was as great an
ordeal for her to go to his rooms.
She had a virginal delicacy about
going to a bachelor’s room, even
when he wasn’t there. Breyley’s
landlady didn’t make it any
easier for her, either ; one of
those spiderlike characters whose
house is her web, so sensitive to
every footstep that everyone
livin 8 there becomes her
possession because of her
intimate knowledge of their
comings and goings.
“No, Mr. Breyley never lets
anyone into his room when he's
away. Everybody knows that.
Ev . en his friends never think of
B° in B m , when he sat work ; not
at he has many friends, Mr.
Breyley. You 11 have to leave
your parcel with me. What name
sbaE I say.
Two things Rhoda didn t want
*° do—leave the parcel with this
voraciously curious woman, and
reveal her name to her. But
warned. ( j , th ffl
™ no choice.
,
Es a , Y er^ ’ ve i r ,Y important
an d Y, ab e . P arceb sbe said as
s “f £ „^ n f, e • , .. ,
What sin it. The landlady
h about in her hands,
weighing it, measuring it, all but
|J ndoin S the stnn S and
‘ liriU T „ I*- T
a ca ? l J,?!
.. . g „ ' wbat
11 j, > , j
~n S f“n
“ nb lTnT S „ f y f ,n ? S
flunk of someth,ng more
convincing.
Breyley would never
‘ or S lve me > or y° u cither if
an y° ne found what was in it.”
“It feels like account-books,”
the lady decided suddenly,
“He’s always carrying account-
books.”
Account-books obviously were
utterly devoid of any human
interest to her.
“Yes, they are account-books.”
Rhoda saw the unexpected value
of simple truth,
But the landlady looked as if
she didn’t believe her.
“I’ll take very good care of
them,” she said. Rhoda turned
away, despairingly certain that
the woman would open the
parcel as soon as she was out of
sight,
(To be continued next week)
turning round in the pram,
noticed his guardian’s thin, black-
stockinged legs.
As a souvenir of our talk
Hackston presented me with a
sketch (reproduced on page 25).
The reason for the pipe in the
infant’s mouth is that at about
the time of the pram incident
young Hackston saw a pipe,
grabbed it and shoved it in his
mouth. When discovered “smok-
ing” at such an early age, his
father reckoned he was so smart
he would see the four walls of a
jail before he was 21.
Over the years many Bulletin
artists have also written for its
pages. Offhand, I can recall
among the artist-writers Norman
Lindsay, Hugh McCrae, Percy
Leason, Dave Souter, Mick Paul,
Jack Sommers, Les Such, Reg
Coulter and Jack Lusby ; yet few
have written for as long and as
consistently as Hackston. He
has not drawn a picture for The
Bulletin for years, for the
simple reason that since he
started writing fiction and verse
he finds that he cannot stop. He
still has a swag of bush yams
waiting to be written, before
touching his life in the city.
“The city life is still ahead of
me,” he said in a letter, “and the
city stuff is just as full as my
bush yarns.” One would like to
see it. As a hoy from the bush
he mixed with the gay
Bohemians in Melbourne 30 and
40 years ago, meeting artists and
would-be artists, poets and
would-be poets, actresses, actors,
politicians and prize-fighters.
As to his verse, which appears
regularly in The Bulletin’s
“Aboriginalities” pages, he
reckons he has a couple of
thousand more pieces written and
waiting to be polished-up.
“Enough,” he says, “to last me
for life if I live to a hundred. I
write them all the time, like
breathing, but my stories I work
on. You have to.”
He thinks that “Writing is a
thousand times harder than
drawing or painting. An artist
can work without thinking too
much sometimes. A writer has
to keep on thinking all the time.
Anything I am saying does not
apply to Norman Lindsay. He
is on his own all the time.” Cecil
Mann, Douglas Stewart and
John Brennan are his literary
godfathers, so far as stories and
verse are concerned, he says.
He was very curious, when I
last heard from him, to learn all
he could about Brian James,
another Bulletin writer who
uses a pseudonym. I was able
to tell him that Brian James is
four years younger than he is,
that he spent the best years of his
life in the bush, and that he, too,
did not start to write his Cooka-
bundy stories until comparatively
late in life. Strangely, Hackston’s
real name, which is to be found
in Chaucer, means “to wear a
mask or a disguise.”
“This revelation as to the past
of my forefathers gave me a
great thrill,” he wrote to me,
“for, to have a name that meant
a mask or a disguise, suggested
dark doings in the past and
strangely enough, although in a
more modified form, seemed to
fit in with my own nature as the
years unfolded it.”
I dare say few nowadays take
the trouble to write the kind of
letters James Hackston writes to
his friends, in clear, almost
microscopic, handwriting. A
recent letter, containing a long,
charming description of boyhood
walks on the hills, ended: “Must
close now; the bailiff wants a
cup of tea.”
That, too, is typical James
Hackston.


ẁ
A.C.A. policies
For
* life
* FIRE
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER'S
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
* MOTOR
VEHICLES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street, Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE ARTHUR DONALD ECK-
MAN.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
ECKMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3202 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of January
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGU,
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH COTTER late oi
Flat No. 1 94 French Street Maroubra.
—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA MAI
COTTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2011 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three (3) years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House Sydney By
the 14th January 1955 and obtain a cop.
of the Petition without charge from Mc-
DONELL & MOFFITT, Solicitors, 6 Wyn-
yard Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORMOSA
A “U.S. News and World
Report” untangling of some of
the strings attached to a trouble-
spot where, already, more than
words are being thrown:
“Threats out of China are sug-
gesting that the island of For-
mosa is next on the Communist
timetable. General Chu Teh,
head of China’s armed forces,
says that his Communist armies
will take Formosa. Nobody, he
says, can stop them.
“The United States stands
publicly and officially commit-
ted to defend Formosa if it is
attacked by Communists. A
shooting war could result. This
time, from the start, Americans
in uniform would be fighting
Communists in uniform.
“The U.S. Navy has its orders
to block any Communist attempt
to grab the island from Chiang
Kai-shek’s Nationalists, who
hold it.
“The U.S. Air Force, too, is
under instructions to act in that
event,
“Communists, invading For-
mosa, would be sitting ducks for
a U.S. air and sea force. What
is more important, the experts
doubt that the Red leaders, for
all their tough talk, want a war
with the U.S. now. But the
danger remains.
“Red China’s top generals are
saying publicly that Formosa
must be ‘liberated.’ To Com-
munists that means conquered by
Communists.
“Premier Chou En-lai is con-
tributing to the propaganda. The
U.S., he said, intends to make
Formosa ‘a military springboard
for continuing aggression against
China,’ That is the way Chou
talked about Korea just before
his Chinese Communists got into
that war.
“U.S. language on Formosa is
clear and direct. President
Truman, just two days after
Communists attacked in Korea
on June 25, 1950, said that ‘the
occupation of Formosa by Com-
munist forces would be a direct
threat to the security of the
Pacific area and to the United
States forces. Accordingly, I
have ordered the Seventh Fleet
to prevent any attack on For-
mosa.’
“President Eisenhower told
Congress just after his inaugura-
tion that he was issuing instruc-
tions that ‘the Seventh Fleet no
longer be employed to shield
Communist China.’ This left
Chiang’s forces free to harry the
Communist mainland. But it
did not withdraw U.S. protection
from Formosa.
“Secretary of State John
Foster Dulles publicly reaffirmed
the U.S. position on April 18,
1953. The Seventh Fleet, he
said flatly, is ‘still instructed to
protect Formosa.’
“In the Pentagon,” the “U.S.
News and World Report” con-
tinues, “and in the State Depart-
ment in Washington, a non-
Communist Formosa is con-
sidered essential to the Pacific
defences of the U.S. itself. U.S.
military leaders note that For-
mosa involves the very keystone
of America’s Pacific defences.
Enemy forces on Formosa would
outflank both the Philippines and
Japan, would be within easy
reach of Okinawa, main U.S. air-
base in Asia. Once again, as
after Pearl Harbor, U.S. defences
would be forced back to Hawaii.
So the U.S. intends to see to it
that Formosa remains in the
hands of non-Communists.
“Complications to the For-
mosa question, however, worry
U.S. diplomats. Formosa first
became a problem for the U.S.
at Cairo on December 1, 1943.
At that time. President Roose-
velt and Britain’s Prime Minister,
Winston Churchill, agreed with
Generalissimo Chiang that ‘all
the territories Japan has stolen
from the Chinese, such as Man-
churia, Formosa and the Pesca-
dores, shall be returned to the
Republic of China.’
“Question now is who repre-
sents ‘the Republic of China’ —
the Communists of Peking or
the Nationalists of Formosa
under Chiang. The U.S. holds
that Chiang still represents the
Republic of China. On the other
hand, not cnly the Soviet Union,
but also non-Communist coun-
tries such as Great Britain and
India recognise the Communists
as China’s only Government.
“In a shooting war under such
circumstances, all sorts of com-
plications could result, Soviet
Russia, for example, has a
mutual-assistance treaty with
Communist China. If Chinese
Communist forces attacked For-
mosa, thus going to war with
the U.S., the Peiping Communists
could call on the Moscow Com-
munists for help. Soviet sub-
marines, thus, could be sent
against the U.S. Seventh Fleet.
“Britain’s foreign relations
would be in a mess if the Chinese
Communists attacked Formosa.
Britain recognises the Commun-
ist Government —thus, in theory
at least, agreeing to the Com-
munist claim to Formosa. But
Britain’s closest ally is the U.S.,
which will go to war if Chinese
Communists try to take For-
mosa.”
That complication in British-
U.S. relations could, as “Man-
chester Guardian” points out
—London “Daily Mirror”
PLAYING WITH FIRE
editorially, be one of the aims
behind Communist China’s agita-
tion for the “liberation” of
Formosa. “The [Red China]
campaign,” it notes, “is running
on lines curiously like those of
Hitler’s war of nerves against
his intended victims”:
“Evidently it is a carefully con-
sidered move by the Chinese
Government. Yet what can be
the object? Formosa is pro-
tected by the American Navy,
and the Chinese Government
has virtually no navy at all. If
■ Peking sent any expedition it
would be annihilated. The Com-
munists would lose face. Why,
then, are they making threats
which they are known not to
have the means to fulfil? To do
so is also to lose face, which no
Chinese can afford.
“Some Asian observers think
that Peking is convinced that
America suffered a very great
loss of prestige at the Geneva
conference. At Geneva the
Chinese came to think that it
was practicable to split the
Anglo-American alliance: hence
their changed attitude to Britain.
These observers believe that
China might now go so far as to
provoke a clash of arms with the
American Navy, since they
calculate that in the recrimina-
tions which would follow —the
demands by America for British
backing, the British aversion
from everything to do with
Formosa —the Anglo-American
alliance would founder. This
interpretation may be far-
fetched. But it is significant that
it is being put round,
“Another theory is that the
design of the campaign is to
induce Russia to put its navy at
China’s disposal to counter the
American fleet. In recent weeks
the Far East has been full of
rumors of an agreement for
Russian naval bases to be estab-
lished in Hainan Island. It is
interesting that, though the
Chinese propaganda campaign
is being supported strongly by
the North Korean radio, it has
been hardly mentioned in the
Russian press.
“But perhaps the most prob-
able explanation is that the
Chinese Government is simply
feeling its way and testing the
ground. The Kuomintang
controls not only Formosa but a
string of small islands, some very
near the mainland. Peking may
be planning an expedition against
some of these. Or perhaps it
hopes that its threats may bring
some dramatic changes in the
Government in Formosa itself,
such as the overthrow of Chiang
Kai-shek, which would make it
harder for America to persist in
its present resolution.”
Soviet Sea Power
Typical British press comment
on the lately announced expan-
sion of the Russian navy:
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “It
has been certain for some time
that the Russian navy is being
built for a commerce-destroying
war. This is the policy that suits
the weaker naval Power, and
Russia, like -Germany before the
war, is primarily a land Power.
Brassey's Annual for 1953 put
the Russian operational strength
at something like 20 cruisers,
100 destroyers and 100 sub-
marines, The Admiralty estimate
that by 1957 Russia will have
30 cruisers, 150 destroyers, 500
submarines, 500 motor torpedo-
boats, 1000 minesweepers, 300
escort vessels and 4000 naval
aircraft as well as patrol and
landing craft.
“Exact comparison of the
British and Russian navies is
impossible partly because Britain
has battleships and fleet carriers,
which the Russians have not,
while an island nation with wide-
spread possessions has more need
of a navy to keep open the trade-
routes on which its life depends
than has a land Power. But
Britain has about 37 cruisers,
including the Daring-class ships,
92 destroyers, 194 frigates and
57 submarines. It is important,
however, to notice that a large
part of the British Navy has been
reduced to reserve, while the
entire Russian fleet is kept in
commission.”
The same: “Naval opinion in
Britain and the United States
seems to hold that the Soviet
navy is the second-largest in the
world, which is pretty good
going for a country with no
overseas possessions.”
* * •
London “Observer”: “The
Germans, with considerably
fewer submarines than those
possessed by Russia today, sank
over a thousand ships between
1939 and 1941, and the threat of
those ravages cost us [Britain]
one of the greatest efforts of the
war before it was overcome.
For an island people such as our-
selves the growth of the Soviet
navy—even if its fighting-power
as compared with that of other
great navies has not been proved
in the past —means that our
naval defences need much more
attention than they are getting at
the present time.”
m » *
London “Sunday Times”:
“Great Britain, when she con-
ceded naval primacy to the
United States, could afford to
do so in view of the intimate
relations between the American
and British democracies. But
with Russia the case is entirely
different. Her policies constitute
our principal foreign danger; if
we found ourselves again in a
world war she would be our chief
opponent. The last two world
wars each showed us very nearly
conquered by submarine war-
fare ; and it is clearly on that
lesson that Russia’s present naval
policy has been founded.
“We ourselves are too apt to
forget the naval aspect of our
security problem. For it remains
as true as ever it was that Great
Britain lives by the sea, that to
lose its use during war would
be death to her, and that, though
aircraft now play a very leading
part in naval defence, that
defence remains a naval
problem.”
* ♦ *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“With certain changes of
emphasis due to changed condi-
tions, the Russian fleet of today
is very much the fleet which the
German admirals would have
liked to put against Great
Britain. They never had such a
fleet, of course. They started
the war with only 57 submarines,
and never achieved Russia’s
present rate of production. Yet
with a submarine strength never
more than a third of Russia’s
present strength, they nearly
brought us to our knees.
“It is the custom in certain
quarters to argue that the
Russian fleet, no matter how big,
will always be useless. The
Russians, it is said, are not a
seafaring people. Maybe not;
as naval warfare becomes in-
creasingly technical, however,
sailors rely less and less on an
inherited understanding of the
sea and more and more on
instruments and mathematics.”
* * SR
London “News Chronicle”:
“The first significant point is
that although the combined Nato
navies are more powerful than
anything the Soviet Union is
likely to build, they are not so
strong in proportion to need.
Russia is a land Power. She
does not require a navy to
protect her communications.
She can reserve it for aggressive
action. The Nato ships have to
be spread thin over the oceans
of the world to keep the sea-
lanes open.
“The second point is that the
new Russian navy is in fact built
for raiding. With its main
strength in fast cruisers and in
long-distance submarines it is
meant to strike hard at the
weakest point of the Western
Powers—the seas that are the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIKEOTORS:
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman). F, W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JJ. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and.
LAUNCESTON
i
SS
. 9n*
Holden is Australia's most popular car because . . •
Holden is Australia’s
Finest Value!
More people buy Holden than any other
car model because most car buyers
think Holden is Australia’s finest value.
We think that you’ll agree when you
consider how much more you get for
your money in a Hoiden.
Australia’s Own Car is the only car that
offers you this ideal combination • 6
cylinder performance at the lowest price
• 30 m.p.g. economy as reported by
owners • 6 passenger roominess at the
lowest price • Dependability proven in
the hands of more than 150,000 owners.
• High resale value.
Proof that Holden offers 30 m.p.g.
economy with big car power comes
from owners like Mr.
L. J. Smith, theatre
manager, of Ipswich,
ẃ
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Car
*Registered Trade Mark
Queensland, who says ! “ The mileage
registered to date is 45,000. All road
conditions have been traversed between
Adelaide and Rockhampton . . . average
petrol consumption is still 31 i miles
per gallon .”
Add to all these better-value features
the low cost and ready availability of
Holden factory guaranteed parts, and
service. It is the combination of many
advantages that makes Holden Aus-
tralia’s most popular car . . , the
finest value you can buy. Your Holden
Dealer will be happy to prove it to you.
Call in soon and see him. In view of
the very heavy demand for “ New-Look ”
Holden Sedans and Utilities we suggest
that you place your
order as soon as
possible.
• There are two Air Chief car
radios specially designed for
Holden. E24C
SEDAN LIST PRICES from £B7O plus tax
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Ser viced bi Holden Dealers throughout Australia
vital links of our alliance. The
Soviet navy is not defensive.
“Russia already has the largest
army in the world. Her close
ally, China, has the second-
largest. Now her navy is assum-
ing formidable proportions.”
♦ ♦ ♦
Commander Anthony
Courtney in London “Spec-
tator” : “In two to three years
from now, the main naval forces
available to the U.S.S.R. will
consist of 30 cruisers, 150
destroyers, 500 MTB’s, 500 sub-
marines and 4000 naval aircraft.
The first instinctive reaction of
Englishmen to this revelation has
elicited the fact, already known
to a surprising proportion of our
incorrigibly sea-minded race,
that at the present time no
warship larger than a frigate is
on the stocks in a British yard.
It is probably the first time in
our naval history that a foreign
building programme has been
revealed whose great size is in
such extraordinary contrast to
our own.”
• • o •
The same : “Broadly speaking,
the types of warship making up
the Soviet forces fall quite neatly
into two categories. The Soviet
destroyers and MTB’s and per-
haps half of the 500 submarines
come within the first or ‘defen-
sive’ category, for their radius
of action is such that they cannot
operate very far afield from
Soviet bases. The same applies
to the 4000 Soviet naval aircraft
which, in the absence of carriers,
are restricted in their operations
to a distance of a few hundred
miles from the Russian coast.
“But a very different picture
appears when we consider the
second category of Soviet
warships, which will consist of
perhaps 250 ocean-patrol sub-
marines with a radius of action
of 20,000 miles, and of between
20 and 30 heavy cruisers of the
‘Sverdlov’ class.
“The new atomic weapons
and guided-missiles will very
greatly increase the striking-
power of both ships and sub-
marines against concentrated
targets such as seaports and
ocean convoys, not to speak of
centres of coastal population, a
disquieting thought for a nation
such as ourselves which requires
a decent interval for the mobilisa-
tion of its reserve fleet in time
of war,
“It is true that the Soviet navy
is still subjected to most of the
geographic and climatic handi-
caps which affected its Tsarist
predecessors. It is also true that
there is no Soviet admiral now
serving who has ever com-
manded a squadron at sea in the
presence of the enemy. But we
are deluding ourselves if we
expect the Russians to play the
game in accordance with the old-
fashioned rules.”
Franco-German
Mistrust
French mistrust of Germany
was one of the biggest rocks on
which the European Defence
Community foundered; any
further plans for an integrated
Europe will still have to get over
that obstacle.
One difficulty, as London
“Economist” puts it, is that “The
German Chancellor [Dr.
Adenauer] clearly fears more
than anything an attempt by the
Western Powers to come to terms
with the Russians at Germany’s
expense; it is not, therefore,
surprising that he should read
into some of the things M.
Mendes-France has said a wish
to keep open such possibilities
of agreement with Moscow.
“Again, it is not easy for a
man of Dr. Adenauer’s convic-
tions to dismiss from his mind
the thought that France may
think rigidity towards Germany
and friendliness towards the
Soviet Union will pay better than
generosity towards Germany and
rigidity towards the Soviet
Union. Nor is it easy for him to
tell the truth about German
—London “Daily Mail”
THE NEW TOY?
nationalism without appearing to
threaten the French. What he
said should be noted and
remembered:
“ Tf Germany is rebuffed by
the West and wooed by the East
do you not think that the new
nationalism will look to the
Soviet Union? This is a great
danger.’
“It is indeed; and it is all the
greater because the Russians
have it in their power to offer —
or to seem to offer —lures to
German nationalism that the
West cannot command. The
E.D.C. was one method of meet-
ing this danger while Germany
is still divided. If the French do
not quickly find an acceptable
substitute, they may find a new
Germany policy crystallising
behind the scenes, with new per-
sonalities thinking along the same
lines as Bismarck. There are
'plenty of Germans who believe
they are clever enough to ‘handle’
the Russians; and the Russians
have shown how cleverly they
can handle German nationalism.”
Migration
Commenting editorially on the
“complexity” of the migration
problem, London “Daily Tele-
graph” notes that “practically all
Commonwealth countries
envisage in theory a population
far in excess of present figures”:
“In practice, however, diffi-
culties soon begin. There is a
shipping shortage. Unlike his
forefathers, moreover, the
immigrant of today cannot be
left on arrival to sink or swim;
he must be given a house, an
educatiop for his children and
many other amenities. As a
result each immigrant costs the
Australian Government some-
thing like £2OOO to settle.
“The immigrant must not
undercut local labor rates, which
are often set so high as to make
his services dispensable; the
trade-unions are usually watchful
for the least undermining of the
positions they have built up. In
consequence, Commonwealth
countries sometimes give the
impression of refusing those who
wish to come and welcoming
only those who do not.
“In the absence of official
encouragement, it is clear,
nothing significant will happen.
The vast migration from Europe
in the last century was unaided
and unimpeded. It was caused
by a vast increase in the popula-
tion of Europe, by an almost
total absence of restrictions in
undeveloped countries, by the
enterprise of commercial ship-
ping companies, and, not least,
by an imponderable belief that
opportunity lay always ahead.
“Those incentives are now
weakened or missing; nor should
anyone neglect the part played
by economies controlled ‘in the
national interest,’ which tend, in
overpopulated countries, to
disguise or delay economic
vicissitudes and, in under-
developed countries, to reduce
the capacity to absorb new-
comers. Unless catastrophe over-
take us, it is futile to expect
people to move in significant
numbers. They will have to be
moved,”
Britain's Aircraft
This year has seen the British
aircraft industry come in for
quite a bit of criticism —Sir
Thomas Sopwith, chairman of
the Hawker Siddeley group, com-
mented that the industry was in
danger of losing its lead over the
rest of the world, and other
critics opined that, although
Britain’s aircraft-designers were
without equals, the industry itself
seemed incapable of moving
forward “from the stage of prov-
ing prototypes to mass-produc-
tion.” %
Along with all that, the Comet
disasters checked the develop-
ment of “the one aircraft which
was giving Britain the longest
lead in the market for long- and
medium-range transports.”
“It is well to remember these
uncomfortable facts,” comments
London “Financial Times” in an
editorial assessment of the British
aircraft industry; but “they can
be contemplated now with rather
more hope for the future than
might have been the case at the
beginning of the year.”
“In the Hunter and the
Viscount, and with the Bristol
Britannia coming forward, the
industry now has three aircraft
which are into the stage of pro-
duction. If the Hunter has
seemed from time to time to
have had more than its fair share
of teething troubles, the
Viscount’s early career has been
both smooth and triumphant.
During 1955 one test for the
industry will be the efficiency
with which these aircraft can be
delivered to their domestic and
foreign buyers in large numbers.
“During 1955 the industry
itself will be just as much con-
cerned with development for the
future. The detailed problems
of supersonic flight have to be
investigated with day-to-day
research. The development of
the medium- and long-range
pure jet aircraft has to be taken
up wherever the solution to the
Comet mystery proves to have
left it.
“There is now at last in Britain
—in the Pl—an aircraft capable
of supersonic speeds in level
flight; moreover, since 20 have
been ordered, test-flying should
proceed relatively quickly.
“And it has now become clear
that should the industry want to
build the very large presses which
were at one time thought
essential, the Government is
ready to help. Already the
number of modern wind-tunnels
is growing. Taken with the
British aircraft industry’s record
in the past, this is at least the
groundwork for confidence in the
future.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australia and Asia
Australians do not learn enough these
days about the international activities of
their near-neighbors in Asia. Debates in
Parliament on foreign affairs are seldom
held, and when they are they are con-
fined mostly to Ministerial statements on
Australian policy. Labor members, by
their own decision, do not sit on the
foreign-affairs committee, and none of
them appears to have made any real
study of the subject recently.
Yet a well-informed Parliament could
usefully discuss, for example, t|ie visit
by the Indonesian Prime Minister to
India for discussions on a non-aggression
pact between India, Burma and Indo-
nesia, and on the still-tentative plans for
the Afro-Asian conference mentioned in
The Bulletin recently. It could dis-
cuss also the implications of Nehru’s
visit to China and the Indonesian bid to
cancel the Chinese citizenship of about
three million Chinese in Indonesia.
There is meal for thought and debate,
too, in the statement by the Prime Minis-
ter of Ceylon that his country “would
continue to be in the Commonwealth as
long as it served the interests of Ceylon.”
Sir John Kotelawala a few days later
talked about Seato, expressing satisfac-
tion that the original spirit in which it
was conceived had been greatly modified,
but adding that the main objection to
it by the “Colombo Powers” was the
original one —“that it should have been
considered necessary to conceive it in
the spirit in which it has been conceived.”
All these matters and many other
current and pending developments in the
area must have impact on Australia in
the near future. If we remain ignorant
of them or ignore them we do ourselves
grave disservice. — Mugga Way (A.C.T.).
A Letter to Uncle
Dear Uncle, you have travelled far, by
air and land and main; since—greatly
daring, it was thought—you smashed
Imperial Spain, Till ’ninety-eight, that
pregnant year, your reunited nation, so
lately plunged in civil war, had stood
for isolation, though pledged to save
your continent from dubious friends and
foes by putting actual force behind that
Doctrine of Monroe’s. For France, with
troops in Mexico, seemed ready for a
row: Napoleon’s France, so soon to fall!
The world’s your oyster now.
But what a world it has become!
There’s Europe, one vast “fen of stag-
nant waters” —sundered States and
soured, suspicious men: its ardent youth
twice sacrificed (our age’s saddest story):
illustrious towns in ruins still and empires
gone to glory. The peoples in the lost
domains, their so-called “freedom” gained
too easily, a motley lot of rulers have
obtained, all novices, with wild ideas
fermenting in their headsr—not Commun-
istic always; but the Red contagion
spreads. In Europe, Asia, Africa, it
spreads; and toughs would wreck our
English-speaking nations, though we’re
holding them in check.
An ugly situation, but no cause for
losing heads or tempers —by so doing we
shall only help the Reds. And overtures
from Moscow men, however much it
jars, should not be heedlessly dismissed
—you bargained with the Tsars. In
spite of ail the traps for fools that
ruffians set and bait, the Russia of the
Molotovs is still a Tsarist State, which,
more than did the Romanovs, for instru-
ments relies on soldiery, policemen,
executioners and spies.
You can’t forget, nor should you, that
Unholy Joe betrayed your President and
Churchill when that rotten peace was
made. But hate we mustn’t overdo from
any cause whatever. Atrocious systems
we may hate, and methods—peoples,
never! These Petrov and Gouzenko
cases, surely they suggest the makings of
an Opposition friendly to the West; the
likelihood that many decent Muscovites
are sick of spying, being spied on and
corrected with a kick. Resentment, may-
be nation-wide, most probably explains
the sudden change of Moscow’s tune, its
loosening of the reins. Its silent acquies-
cence in the Yugoslav affair, in Tito’s
shrill secession, was an earlier case of
scare.
So, though there’s no occasion to in-
dulge in rosy dreams, the situation mayn’t
be as ugly as it seems. What now appears
a setback may be judged a lucky chance
if you are saved from concentrating over-
much on France—the great mistake the
English made: they tied G.B. to Gaul,
becoming charged with sentiment —the
French have none at all. From recent
years we might have learned, as well as
from the past, that fighting revolutions is
the way to make them last, and “freeing”
subject peoples at a lamentable cost is
chivalry that merely leads to being
double-crossed. In crazy fratricidal strife
the freed are soon engrossed. ' The
winners are the ones that hate the libera-
tors most.
As generous as you are strong, you’re
helping peoples more and in far greater
numbers than was ever done before. For
gratitude you needn’t look, though here
and there you’ll get it. The Moscow press
predicts for you financial chaos. Let it!
But don’t be in a hurry or let angry
passions rise if Moscow girds at Eisen-
hower or damns McCarthy’s eyes.
And though, with you so occupied, we’d
hate to make a fuss, we’ll take it as a
kindness if you spare a thought for us.
Australians are a friendly folk, what-
ever else they lack. In truth, they’d
harm no fellow-creature, yellow, brown
or black. But pride of race they share
with you, and hold it just as dear; and
this new Asia has become uncomfortably
near. The aid you gave to Syngman
Rhee our Australasia backed, while
wondering uneasily how Asia would
react. It would be death to all this
nation’s dreams were it to see its land
submerged, as was Natal; become a vast
Fiji.
Remember this, and be assured, old
relative and friend, whatever you decide
to do we’re with you to the end. —D. E.
(N.S.W.).
Industrial Relations
A recent observation by an Arbitration
Court judge—“ What do the workers
really want?” —should cause some heart-
searching.
Obviously, though we would all prob-
ably welcome it, we can’t go on shorten-
ing hours indefinitely, unless, of course,
it could be balanced by increased produc-
tivity. The 40-hour week proved lacking
in that respect, production being no
higher, and in some cases lower, than
before.
That is not so much due to any lacka-
daisical attitude on the workers’ part, as
to the somewhat flexible control of pro-
duction staffs. In America, ruthless super-
vision ensures a constant level of pro-
duction despite any internal breakdowns,
but here the slightest hitch is an excuse
by both sides temporarily to suspend the
production-rate.
Then, with labor scarce and jobs going
begging, many factory-managers and their
staffs are chary of exerting rigid control.
In every workshop it is always possible
to find some who believe in doing as little
as possible for the maximum money, but,
generally, the average Australian is pre-
pared to give a fair day’s toil.
The things the workers really want are:
security of employment, reasonable
wages and reasonable conditions. If he
feels security is not in one job, who can
blame him for changing to another? A
study of the labor turnover of factories
“Watch the weather!”
whose products are seasonable, compared
with those where the demand is constant,
illustrates that.
As to wages, if a worker can better
himself, then he is quite entitled to do
so, provided, of course, he retains his
security. Admittedly, some workers are
overtime-hungry; when it cuts out at one
factory, they change to another job. But
they usually finish up with a breakdown
and a pile of medical bills.
It is worth noting that factories here
“Now see the amphibious principle?”
with parent firms in the U.S.A. usually
have far better working conditions than
others with local origin. Is this the result
of, or compensation for, stricter control?
In many factories amenities are at a
minimum, and then only grudgingly
given after bitter and prolonged tussles
with the unions concerned.
A plea to the workers alone won’t
increase production. Possibly a combined
plea to both employer and employee
would have better results. —R. E. (Vic.).
Wool and Synthetics
I doubt that “wool has nothing to fear
from even the best of synthetics” (B.
15/9/’54). Early in the century came
the rayons. These were not truly synthetic
fibres as they involved not the building-
up of the fibre from its foundation
chemical elements, but the regeneration
and chemical modification of the com-
plicated cellulose molecules already
present in the raw material. Moreover,
rayon then had to be processed on
machinery designed for fibres of
different properties—wool, cotton, silk
and linen. Today the various rayons
are much improved in quality and more
rayon is now used than wool.
About 15 years ago, the first really
synthetic fibre, nylon, came into bulk
production, and we all know how nylon
has captured the stocking-trade from silk.
While rayons and nylons both were great
advances, the chemists knew that, even
to approximate wool, they had to get
back to the same raw material as does
the sheep^—protein. This is found in
many animal- and vegetable-products
such as fish-waste, casein from milk,
maize, soya beans and peanuts. The
British went ahead on peanuts while the
Americans went to maize.
As peanut-oil is used in the manu-
facture of margarine, Britain will always
import peanuts and, after the oil (50 per
cent, by weight) has been extracted,
British manufacturers will have sufficient
raw material to make two million tons
of fibre a year.
Fibre can be made long or short,
which is not the case with wool. It can be
made fine or coarse, it dyes as easily as
wool, it is resistant to moths. It is clean
when made and does not require de-
greasing or sorting. Because of con-
trolled production it is more uniform than
wool and it is more resistant to chemical
attack. Also, by the introduction of
pigments in the manufacturing stages
separate dyeing is not necessary and
colors so incorporated have higher
resistance to light and water.
Being of protein, these new fibres
handle warmly and absorb moisture as
readily as does wool. Their one draw-
back, which the chemists will surely
overcome, is low tenacity, which means
less final strength. On the other hand,
people with certain classes of skin
sensitivity, who cannot wear wool, can
wear fibre and find it, as proved by tests
in Greenland, just as warm as wool.
Mixed with wool in blankets, carpets,
knitting wools, etc., fibres make the
resultant material smoother and silkier
than wool alone.
World wool-output for 1953-54 on a
clean basis is roughly one million tons,
and I can’t see that England alone can
dump two million tons of fibre on the
world’s markets at one-third the price of
wool without giving woolgrowers some-
thing to think about. — Wavy Navy
(Vic.).
Flat-hunting
“Dumb Dora’s” tale of flat-hunting
(B. 8/9/’54) left me unmoved. The poor
little working woman is no longer with
us and young women now are paid more
money than is good for them. I have
seen too many leave my house at 8.45
a.m. and hail a taxi instead of rising in
good time to take the bus which passes
my door.
It is the tenants who turn women like
myself into hard-hearted landladies. We
get that way in sheer self-protection.
After a week one poor little working
girl introduced her boy-friend as a
boarder. When I discreetly observed
that a man every night was an embarrass-
ment, I became “SHE.” Neither are poor
little working girls above pinching food-
stuffs. Another used my refrigerator to
store her boy-friend’s drinks. Yet another
brought her friends in to use my bath as
there was no hot-water system in the
places where they lived.
If I were forced into a room, such as
“D.D.” describes, I’d get to work with
soap and hot water and make a home.
It can be done. A young woman I know
bought a little run-down cottage in a
poor street and shuddered at the work
ahead. But she cleaned and painted it
and now the whole of the one street is
transformed as, from sheer force of
example, the rest of the residents have
got down to the job.
I am very tired of the moans and
groans of fiat- and room-hunters. Before
I let anyone into my place again she
will have to provide some sort of certifi-
cate proving that she knows a kitchen
sink should" not be used to empty the
tea-leaves, that gas can be regulated,
that a light-switch can be turned off as
well as on, that a toilet should not be
used to dispose of bottle-tops. I’ve had
’em all. — Had ’Em (N.S.W.).


Why do YOU get so
tired?
What causes that tired feel-
ing? How can mental work tire
you physically? Why do you
sometimes wake up tired? Do
emotions affect fatigue? Can
dieting cause tiredness; will
frequent snacks help?
October Reader’s Digest
brings you scientific facts about
why you get so tired and
what you can do about it.
Also many other stimulating
articles condensed from world’s
leading magazines and current
best-selling books, including a
24-page book condensation of
Paul Brickhill’s “Reach for
the Sky,” the epic story of
legless hero, R.A.F. fighter-
leader Douglas Bader. October
Reader’s Digest—on sale now
1/6 at all newsagents.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. B. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
INSURANCE—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
a*
■V
m
v
-f
Take-off in mid-Atlantic
Two days out from New York. Passengers
gather on deck as the luxury liner
* Europa 5 creams through the Atlantic.
A platform carrying a grey Lufthansa
seaplane swings, heading the wind.
A lever is pulled—and the seaplane
hurtles into the air, propelled by a power-
ful launching catapult. The ’plane
climbs, circles the great liner once and
sets course for Southampton, England.
It brings mails to England a clear three
days before the ‘Europa’ docks.
This seaplane mail service, started in
1931, attracted much attention and gained
a lot of credit for the Norddeutscher
Lloyd Line. Credit, too, for BP gasoline
which was supplied for this, and other
Lufthansa services.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to keep
pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to provide
aviation fuels speedily and efficiently.
XAVIfITIDNigJsERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd
In England Now
The leaves are falling in Eng-
land now, the chestnuts, the first
budders in the spring, dropping
their golden tokens of autumn
in park and square and wood.
The blackbird is silent and the
swifts no longer flash among the
buildings with their thin scream-
ing in the twilight.
So ends the worst summer in
the memory of most English-
“My patient!”
men. A dry, cold spring was fol-
lowed by weeks of rain and low
temperatures. Then came
warmer temperatures and more
rain. The Whitsun holiday was
a washout, so was Bank Holiday,
and, except those who went to
the Continent, all those on sum-
mer holidays from John o’
Groats to Land’s End spent them
under umbrellas or wrapped in
overcoats.
What it has cost the rag-trade
is anybody’s guess. Sales of
summer clothing were almost at
a standstill. Only Americans,
Australians and other visitors
buying stuff for home seemed to
be doing any business. Even the
“summer sales” in London’s
great stores failed to create divi-
dends. By the end of August
the trade had given up hope,
pulled out its summer displays
and opened up with windows
full of autumn shows. Where-
upon there came two of the hot-
test and brightest days of the
year, and managers and window-
dressers stood round biting their
nails and anxiously watching the
sky.
But it was on the farms that
the greatest national loss
occurred. The crops, carrying
one of the heaviest grain yields
for years, could not be harvested
when ready. High winds and
heavy rains made havoc of stand-
ing wheat and oats, which were
lodged and flattened from Scot-
land to Kent. This writer has
seen what summer rain can do
to the heavy crops of the nor’-
west N.S.W. wheat-belt in the
way of lodging, but usually they
can be got with pick-up attach-
ments to headers. In Britain,
however, the machines couldn’t
get into the paddocks without
bogging ; what’s more, the crops
lay saturated and sodden as the
days ran into weeks.
About the end of August
the Archbishop of York publicly
declared that the time had come
to ask for Divine help. Accord-
ingly, in pulpits throughout the
land, the prayers went up.
Scoffers were silenced when
August 31 dawned bright, clear
and hot. In an instant, it seemed,
all rural Britain was athrob to
the drone of tractors as binders
and combines surged into the
fields. The military forces,
holiday-makers, Boy Scouts —all
volunteered to help, and from
the early northern dawn to the
last hour of twilight the British
went to getting their harvest in—
or what they could of it.
And when twilight was gone
and the night come, with
startled squirrels chattering and
affronted owls hooting, citizens
went forth in their cars and
turned their headlights on field
and meadow, on stack and eleva-
tor and barn, giving light for the
work to go on. Somebody—was
it Banjo Paterson?—once de-
scribed a bushfire at night in
unforgettable words:
At night along the hillsides
The scene was grand and
strange;
The bushfires looked like lighted
streets
Of cities in the range.
Grand and strange was the
scene in Kent and Surrey and
Middlesex (and surely elsewhere
in Britain) that night of August
31, and again of September 1,
as the headlamps flooded the
toiling workers, making them
like figures in a vast stage-setting
or film, as the harvest came in.
But two days and two nights
that burst of summer reigned,
on the third day (when this was
written) the grey skies were back
again, the thermometer fell 16
deg., and, though the work went
on, the first glorious rapture was
gone. How much was saved,
how much lost, has yet to be
reckoned, but some idea may be
gained from the fact that laven-
der-growers in Norfolk say the
essence will have no aroma this
season and trefoil-seed farmers
have no seed for a market which
is hungry for 60,000 bags of it.
Britain can manage without
(lavender-water, but she must
have grain, hay and seeds.
Great losses also befel those in
the catering, transport and enter-
tainment business at holiday
resorts. Hundreds of thousands
of people didn’t go, or, if they
did, turned it up after a couple
of drenched days and went home
again. Race-meetings, agricul-
tural shows, fair-grounds—all
copped it heavily, and it is esti-
mated that the losses on county
cricket and the England-Pakistan
Tests run into £75,000.
Let nobody imagine, however,
that the British are wearing sack-
cloth and ashes. Not them. The
spirit that laughed at Nazi bombs
and blockades isn’t likely to
be dashed because a summer got
lost out of the calendar. —
Charles Shaw (England).
Victorian Prisons
There seems to be something
wrong with Victoria’s prison-
system. In the past few months
prisoners have put on two shows
at Pentridge reminiscent of
American movies.
A murderer on May 26 con-
fronted jailers with a smuggled
gun that he intended to escape
with and then ended his life sen-
tence by shooting himself. Later,
312 prisoners, some of them
maddened by smuggled dope
and strong liquor, turned on four
warders who tried to stop a
brawl in one division. In
another, at the same time,
another lifer, William O’Meally,
fought five warders and injured
two. The warders are alleged to
have been removing him from a
cell to save him from being mur-
dered by other prisoners who
have a grouch against him. War-
ders subsequently stated that
only luck prevented a break-
through of 300 prisoners.
A while ago two women
prisoners clambered over the
grim walls and were not recap-
tured for 18 hours. A month
later O’Meally was again in the
limelight, assaulting another
prisoner, and a month later there
was a fire in the coir-matting
shop and another more recently.
The only person who doesn’t
seem to think that there is any-
thing wrong with the system is
Victorian Chief Secretary Galvin.
He talks of the astounding pro-
gress achieved in “our” prison-
system in the last 18 months. —
M. G. (Vic.).
Work for the Aged
A friend of mine, lately re-
turned from England, saw there
a factory successfully staffed by
old-age pensioners.
What a splendid idea for our
own old people—factories for
“over seventies” in which they
could seek light employment
suited to their capabilities. Love
of independence persists past re-
tiring age, just as time hangs
heavily with little to do but sit
around brooding over the in-
firmities of old age.
Many sufficiently active people
would welcome the chance to
pass their time constructively,
earning a small wage within their
pension rights and in warm and
comfortable surroundings bright-
ened by the companionship of
other members of their age-
group.
I have nursed for over three
years in a hospital for old people
and I know that many retain a
surprising degree of manual skill
although they would be quite
unable to fit into the tempo of
a general factory. Covering
coat-hangers, operating knitting-
machines, assembling simple
gadgets, or testing fountain-pens
are sample projects which might
be undertaken. Other factories
might be induced to provide con-
tracts for suitable light work
which otherwise would have to
be done by skilled workers.
With old age, people are gener-
ally subject to some degree of ill
health, but isolation is often the
worst affliction. Even 10s. a
week in wages, one nourishing
hot meal a day in a canteen and
cups of tea morning and after-
noon would be sufficient to trans-
form the miserable lives of many
lonely old people. J. H.
(N.S.W.).


LYS
ROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■
iH
m
mm
m
. m
m
ẅ
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DUAL-PURPOSE AND DAIRY BREEDS
I)ED POLLS and Dairy Short-
horns at Melbourne Show
were good dual-purpose types,
The former (judged by J. Reilly)
held their numbers at 116. This
year the darker color was more
apparent than at previous exhibi-
tions.
Champion cow the aged
Plymouth Primrose, paraded by
Wilson G. J. Beer and Sons, of
Nanneella South (Vic.)—beat
Buln Gherin Siren, from Arthur
Beggs’s Beaufort (Vic.) stud,
Buln Gherin Siren was sired by
Grundisburgh Undaunted (imp.),
The Beers scored again in the
junior championship, which they
won with Plymouth Dahlia.
Next-best heifer was Woodburn
Rosella, owned by T. E. N.
Payne, of Kilmore, and sired by
Bradwell Rosewell (imp.).
Although W. S. Craig won the
bull championship with Bunda-
leer Bombproof, bred by Perry
Bros., John Mclntosh, of Merri-
gum (Vic.), was the most sue-
cessful exhibitor of Red Poll
bulls. He won the junior cham-
pionship with Burnwood Dugald,
and the senior and junior re-
serve championships with B.
Ulster and B. Dutchman, The
older bull was by Grundisburgh
Undaunted (imp.), and two
younger ones by Bradwell
Dominant (imp.).
Summing-up, John Cumber
(of the famous Theale Stud,
Berkshire) said the Dairy Short-
horns had a tail in most classes,
but the best two or three exhibits
would stand comparison any-
where. His chief criticism was
of the teats. Some were coarse,
too big and placed unevenly on
the udder. Some of the young
bulls were not quite up to show
condition. He made the point
that whereas a cow could re-
cover from an early setback, a
young bull had to be kept going
all the time.
of both
sexes went to juniors. Champion
cow and heifer was a beautiful
heifer. Willow Park Melba 95,
owned by Atkinson Bros., of
Swan Hill (Vic.), and sired by
the famous imported Churchill
Paradox 20. This heifer’s good
udder was the chief reason for
preference to her half-sisters
(also by Churchill Paradox 20)
W. P. Blush 45 and W. P.
Dainty.
The champion bull was
Kelmscott Gay Lord 73 (imp.)
exhibited by Atkinson Bros., and
bred by R. W. Hobbs, of Eng-
land, who judged at Melbourne
several years ago. Although
somewhat small, this young
silver-roan was an outstanding
type of the breed. Both reserve
champions were sired by
Churchill Paradox 20.
The senior reserve champion,
Moray Paradox, is owned by
McCombe Bros., of Horsham,
and the junior, W. P. Paradox
64, by Atkinson Bros.
No dairy breed can compete
numerically with Victoria’s
Jerseys. They have a special
enclosed ring, and this year there
were about 500. There would
have been more if there had
been accommodation for them,
R. H. Rose (W.A.) had a diffi-
cult job to select his champions
from the big classes. He finally
gave the award to Tolgarth
Ellous (bred in New Zealand),
from R. C. Broad’s stud at
Sutton Grange (Vic,), an out-
standing five-year-old. Next-
best was the older Belgonia Lady
Capture, owned by P. J.
Maloney and Son of Tongala
(Vic.), and sired by the famous
bull Aim High (imp.),
Of special interest was the
type and utility class for cows
which had produced 30001 b. or
more butterfat. It was won by
the eight-year-old King’s Vale
Linda 131, owned by J. Ander-
son and Son of Lyndhurst,
which was reserve champion in
1950. Another competitor was
the 14-year-old Tolgarth Illu-
sion, a former champion owned
by R. C. Broad.
For champion bull, Rose
selected Ballarat Orphanage’s
four-year-old Orphanage An-
dante’s Goldfinder, and awarded
reserve championship to the aged
Netherwood Raider, bred by
W. C. Francis and exhibited by
J. Anderson and Son.
Guernseys continued their re-
cent progress, and increased their
numbers by more than 15 per
cent, to 205. Female cham-
pionship was won by a four-
year-old imported cow. Worthy
Robert’s Programme 5, bred by
Mrs. K. Butchart and exhibited
by R. G. Watson, of Frankston
(Vic.). Reserve champion was
Bay View Jewel, owned by E. J.
Harding, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.).
Champion bull, Vermont
Ideal, had a well-developed front
and nice color and paraded
well. Bred by F. G. Stephens,
of Vermont (Vic.) and entered
by I. R. Fitzgerald, of Nuna-
wading, near Melbourne, Re-
serve champion, H. N. Watson’s
(Darlington, Vic.) Hampden
Park Harry, was from the same
class.
At 245, Friesian numbers were
the same as last year. Quality
was outstanding, particularly
among the young stock. J.
Halliday, who was manager of
George Badman’s stud at
Murray Bridge (S.A.), selected
the aged Galaview Margaret,
owned by J. V. Plattfuss, of
Finley (N.S.W.), as champion
cow. This seven-year-old cow
is holding her conformation
remarkably well to win the high
honor for the fourth successive
time. Reserve champion,
Rupertswood Oakie, bred by
Salesian College, Sunbury (Vic.),
was exhibited by K. Wilkie, of
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.).
Plattfuss completed a double
by parading the champion bull,
bred by A. A. and D. I. Ward.
Reserve champion was entered
by R. A. Strachan, of Hamilton
(Vic.).
Ayrshires were exhibited in
good condition, but failed to
impress as much as they did
soon after the war. Old Glen-
gowrie Baron Again, bred by
A. Facey and Sons, of Millicent
(S.A.), put up a remarkable per-
formance by winning the Mel-
bourne bull championship for
the sixth successive time, in addi-
tion to two Sydney champion-
ships. Facey and Sons also bred
the champion cow Glengowrie
Marana 2, exhibited by N. J.
Vagg, of Pirron Yalloak (Vic.),
and both reserve champions.
Australian Illawarra Short-
horns made a pleasing advance
in numbers to 220, and while
some entries were still a bit
rangy, displayed a much better
and consolidated type than has
ever appeared in the Melbourne
ring. Judge N. D. Richardson
(N.S.W.) advised breeders that
there was still room for improve-
ment in the coat and vessel-
attachment of many cows.
Nevertheless, color was quite
good.
As with several other dairy
breeds, the champion cow came
from the aged class. It was
N. M. Newton’s Ovensdale
Beauty 23, from the herd at
Whorouly in north-east Victoria.
The reserve champion—O. Pearl
30 from the same stud —was two
years younger.
Awards for bulls were shared
by A. E. Story, of Bendigo (Vic.),
and B. and Y. Sedgwick, of
Doreen, near Melbourne, who
paraded the champion and
reserve champion bulls respec-
tively. The former, Hillview
Ajax, was bred by E, Swan and
Sons; the latter, Grange Lea
Excelsior, was bred by J. C.
West and Sons.
LOWANA.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Heavy rain in Sydney late in September falls into the
pattern of the season of 1883, an integral part of the
Main Cycle. This is important. So far the Main Cycle has
proceeded in an orderly sequence, but has been masked by
the intrusion of the rains of the Uranian Cycle, which have
changed a troublesome season into a good one. As men-
tioned before, October and November rains depend on the
development of this cycle. If it continues, well and good;
if it is suspended, the recent rains may be tbe last of import-
ance in eastern Australia for some time. I can remember
1883 as a young lad. To see it repeated now is curious; but
this seasonal rhythm is the essence of the New Meteorology.
100 Sheep to the Acre
My boss. Professor P, R. Mc-
Mahon, recently handed me a
letter from the Registrar of the
Wellington (N.S.W.) Technical
College, with a cutting from the
“Wellington Times.” The cut-
ting was a report of the running
“ Uranium , me foot! I'm just tryin' to grow a few spuds!”
of 100 sheep to the acre on a
river-flat property in the district.
I quote from it:
The system is simple. Mr.
Hodgkinson runs sheep like a
poultryfarmer runs fowls. A 10-
acre lucerne-paddock produces
the feed which the sheep in
adjoining pens convert into
w 001.... Mr. Hodgkinson admits
the idea is not his. It originated
in the United States, where it was
extraordinarily successful with
fat-cattle. America’s meat-
marketing system, by which fat-
stock were sold by actual weight,
made it eminently suitable for
that country. In Australia,
where fat-stock are sold by num-
bers, it is not a proposition, but
it had possibilities for wool-pro-
duction ....
To date, 3000 sheep have
passed through the yards. Stock,
off-shears and in poor condition,
were purchased during drought
periods, fattened in the pens and
shorn. They were sold again and
replaced with others Glenrock,
snug in the confluence of the
Bell and Macquarie Rivers, is
ideally suited for the system. But
Mr. Hodgkinson says that any
10-acre area with a frontage to a
river is equally as suited.
Adequate water for irrigation and
a piece of high, well-drained land
for the pens are the only geo-
graphical necessities.
Sheep- and wool-class students
from Wellington Tech, were
going out to have a look at the
place, and the registrar was in-
terested in any comments on the
project we might care to make
here at the Sheep and Wool
Department, Sydney. Professor
McMahon asked me to reply to
the letter.
It was a bit difficult to say
anything definite in a case like
that without seeing the place.
Another difficulty—-the article
says “sheep” ; so they could be
crossbred or Merino. And
crossbreds and Merinos require
totally different environments.
Merinos do better when left
alone under natural grazing con-
ditions ; 1.e., they produce •
best and heaviest fiecces unuci
such conditions. British breeds
and crossbred sheep, used mostly
for mutton-production, generally
favor smaller areas such as
improved pastures and the richer
agricultural holdings.
Therefore, under such condi-
tions, I would expect Mr.
Hodgkinson to be running
mainly crossbred sheep, despite
the references to wool-produc-
tion. If they are Merinos , . .
Well, it’s the opinion of many
graziers that Merinos running
on improved pasture and fresh
green-feed tend to develop a
stronger and inferior type of
wool. Some scientific evidence
has been put forward to refute
this belief, but it’s not conclusive.
In spite of what the report
says about worms, I think that
so many sheep together in a
confined space would be more
likely to be infested with worms
than if they were on natural
pastures, and the incidence of
entero-toxsemia would be greater
owing to the lack of roughage;
and other digestive upsets would
be likely.
Again, having so many sheep
in small yards creates a problem
of dust, which must lodge in
the wool and depreciate it. In
wet weather there will be mud.
Labor and associated cost of
cutting feed and taking it to
the sheep is another aspect that
seems to need pretty careful
consideration.
These, in substance, were my
comments. Not very original,
I’m afraid. Plenty of graziers
could have said as much, or
more. But that’s the way it often
is in such cases —when asked for
an opinion one can offer no
more than fundamentals. But
one can’t stray too far from
them, with sheep and wool,
where so much of our knowledge
depends on practical experience.
J. S. BOARDMAN.
Hybrid-maize
“Cocky F.”: The N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture set
about breeding maize long be-
fore anyone else in Australia
thought of the idea, and all
maize-breeders in this State owe
their training in the art and


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
Tetc,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Otoes you the advantages of sewerage M
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal It!
The treated sterile sewerage I*
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
'DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q.’land), Saunders House, 118
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St.. Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
Between
Ourselves
w
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Public Notice
WOULD FRANK FARRINGDON, hus-
band of late VERA FARRINGDON {nee
SIMMS), or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please contact PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 JVConnell Street, Sydney, re Estate
Vera Farringdon deceased.
ŵ
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalnm and
DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut the grass as
short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and/or demonstration: ,
ẁ
N.8.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE. LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MU8551.
Queensland; BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND), LTD., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Sole Am. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
\V I /
.Si
■■■ :
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT/N OROUTOF DpORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Mat? Opinion
Sat'd the doctor, “My patient is failing,
My protests seem quite unavailing.
The \nife’s the wrong thing,
They should use the small ring
Of Elastrator for marking and tailing,"*
Doctor Ram Is right the "Elastrator" way for marl-
ing and tailing is the better way. Many users report
no loss of lambs after using the Elastrator ... no
set-back . . . little fly-strike.
Elastrator Instrument £6/6/1 plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) .. .. 30/-, plus freight
Elastrator Loader .. ~ £5/5/-, plus freight
For Marking and Tailing lambs
. . . For Marking Calves.
Available from all Woo! Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product tof Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
science of breeding hybrid-maize
to that department.
The department has also held
schools at its experiment farms
for guiding seed-growers in the
commercial production of
hybrid seed.
It is not, and never will be,
the function of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture to
enter the field of commercial pro-
duction of such seed.
The production of hybrid
seed-maize is based entirely
upon the initial production of
inbred parent-seed. This latter
is a long-term task requiring
many years of careful and
patient work. Such seed may be
produced locally, or some may
be obtained ready-made from
America or other countries. Its
introduction has now to be made
under proper quarantine safe-
guards necessary to prevent the
introduction of new diseases.
The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture obtains most of such
inbred material without making
personal visits to overseas
breeders. Such visits, undertaken
on the scale necessary for an
adequate study of variety of
crops and other projects in which
the department is interested,
would be very expensive. It is
doubtful whether any Australian
Government department would
have the necessary funds for this
purpose, or would be justified in
so using them if they were ayail-
able. But a commercial enter-
prise, concentrating on limited
objectives, might well have the
money for such trips and be
justified commercially in spend-
ing it. On the other hand, a
Government department, par-
ticularly an agricultural one,
normally has overseas contacts
which diminish the need for
travel. The permanent character
of a Government department
sometimes gives it certain
advantages in this respect over
commercial firms.
In addition to these inbreds,
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has produced inbreds
from local varieties. No hybrids
developed wholly from intro-
duced inbreds have yet been as
successful under coastal condi-
tions in Australia as those de-
veloped from the local inbreds
of the department, or from
crosses between local and
American inbreds.
These inbreds are supplied to
seed-growers registered by the
department, and hybrids are
produced by these growers, who
have been schooled by the de-
partment in such production,
and whose fields are regularly
inspected and approved or
rejected on such inspections.
Unregistered commercial seed-
growers are not subject to such
inspection.
A system of certified-seed pro-
duction, in which bags or con-
tainers are to be sealed under
official supervision, is to be intro-
duced shortly. This action is
considered necessary because of
sale of unregistered seed as
hybrid which was not highly
bred, true, first - generation
hybrid seed —the only hybrid
capable of yielding crops sub-
stantially better than open,
pollinated varieties of similar
maturity.
Ducklings
“My”: Up to five weeks of
age feed them as follows:
ground-wheat, 301 b; ground
hulled - oats, 101 b ; ground-
maize, 401 b.; bran, 101 b., dried-
buttermilk, 51b.; meatmeal
51b.; and salt 41b.
Mix into a moist mash and
give them all they will eat four
times daily until they are three
weeks old, then three feeds daily
to five weeks, after which they
are fed a mature-duck ration
twice daily, as follows: ground-
wheat or ground-barley, 351 b.;
ground-oats, 351 b.; bran, 201 b.;
meatmeal, 101 b., and salt 41b.
Feed also ample daily supplies
of chaffed, fresh green-food.
Pekins and Aylesburys are
best marketed from nine to 12
weeks old, when they should
weigh 44 to 61b. If kept longer
flesh deteriorates and weight de-
creases. The slower-maturing
Muscovy reaches its top between
14 and 16 weeks.
Tomato Pests
If your stake-
grown tomatoes were infected
with mites last time don’t use
the same stakes again without
treating them with some prepara-
tion likely to destroy the pest.
I have a strong feeling they har-
bor in the cracks and under
pieces of bark, so take care that
whatever liquid you use flows
freely.
Two years ago my crop was
almost ruined by mites; so on
expert advice I changed to
another location last time, but
fared no better. It then occurred
to me that by using the same
stakes I had probably invited
infestation.
This time I’ve painted a strong
D.D.T. preparation on the
stakes, taking care that every
portion of them was thoroughly
wetted. In due course I shall
know whether there’s anything
in my theory.
Crosscuts
Up Lismore (N.S.W. North
Coast) way they’re a bit con-
cerned about cattle from west
of the Richmond Range coming
into sales without being checked
for tick.
* * ♦
There’s been talk of uniform
classing of the Australian clip
for years, but something more
definite may come out of the
recent Melbourne conference,
attended by brokers, buyers,
manufacturers and classers;
growers were represented by the
Australian Wool Bureau. W.
McLean, a Perth woolbuyer, put
forward a plan which will go
round to the various groups
interested for discussion and
comment. In W.A. standardised
classing has been operating for
over 30 years, but that State is
prepared to modify its scheme, if
necessary, to bring it into line
with an overall arrangement.
At the conference on wool-
brands Dr. M. Lipson reported
progress with the new L.B.E.
branding-fluid:
C.5.1.R.0. has for some time
been working on a product which
can be applied to wet sheep and
under any conditions of rainfall.
Preliminary experiments have
been most satisfactory, but it will
be some time before the full story
is knotvn.
Some speakers took the line
that losses caused by unscour-
able fluids were so serious to
the industry as a whole that legis-
lation should be introduced to
“prevent or restrict some of the
present practices.”
* * *
“North Queensland Register”
reports lower sugar-content in
cane crushed at various mills.,,
“This position is bad
but there is no warrant to suggest
that there will be any propor-
tionate increase for the rest of
the season to prevent the decline
for the whole crushing being the
same as that which has taken
place to date. In fact, it could
be worse.”
Assuming the decline
remained constant, loss for the
crushing, for three mills, would
be: Goondi, £236,250;
Mourilyan, £206,211; South
Johnstone, £389,025.
Norman J. King, director of
Sugar Experiment Stations, lists
the sugar-producers in order of
importance —Cuba, India, Brazil,
Queensland, Puerto Rico and
Philippines—and goes on to say
(in a lecture to the Royal Society
of Queensland) that it is not so
easy to rank them in order of
production-efficiency because of
differences in age of crop at
harvest. In Hawaii, for instance,
average age is about 22 months ;
in Queensland, 14 months. “To
compare our production per acre
with that of Hawaii, while ignor-
ing the difference in growing-
time, would not be a true
analogy.”
The only valid method, King
suggests, is to give production in
terms of sugar produced per
acre, per month of growing
season. His figures are: Hawaii,
8031 b.; Queensland, 586;
Puerto Rico, 438 ; Philippines,
422 ; Cuba, 328. “It is interest-
ing to record also that the three
mill areas on the Lower Burdekin
(the only fully-irrigated cane
area in the State) averaged, in
1953, 9781 b. of sugar per acre
per month.”
* ♦ *
Guinea-grass and molasses-
grass competed with and killed
lantana in northern parts of
Queensland (R. G. Casey, speak-
ing as Parliamentary head of
C.5.1.R.0. and quoting Queens-
land Department of Agricul-
ture reports). Biological con-
trol is being investigated; J.
Mann, of Queensland Lands
Department, is now in South
America with an expedi-
tion organised in Hawaii.
Casey: “Australia would re-
enter the field when the import-
ance and safety of the various
species [of lantana insects] had
been established more clearly.”
Lucerne, established with some
Wimmera-rye and subterranean-
clover on creek-flats running
through poor sandstone hills, has
enabled a Coonabarabran
(N.S.W.) farmer, I. C. Mac Kay,
to increase stocking on his 3250-
acre property from 900 sheep to
2700 in six years


impression left in the mind of at least
one reader of the Cardus cricket write-
ups. And here is Denzil Batchelor:
His right arm, slung helplessly at his side,
might have been a mascot —carried for luck.
But his left is dagger and broadsword,
rapier and single-stick.
Thrr are, of course, no real objections
an arm of flesh-and-blood a
roadsword, or, for that matter,
in order to make a scene
amp it on the reader’s mind,
inch of this sort of thing
e dramatic possibilities of the
The material itself is difficult,
ght, but many, one after the
he author, if he isn’t careful,
find himself in the position of
:er boosting films, searching
es: a process which eventu-
ords of their meaning. Still,
if Batchelor uses the words “colossal”
or “super-colossal” at all, he probably
does so satirically. There are wit and
judgment in his comments, and one can
feel grateful for a style which is, on
the whole, agreeable.
Of the later men, Batchelor doesn’t
think much of Tom Cribb. His sympa-
thies are all with the ex-Negro slave,
Moljneaux, who had a raw deal in the
rain. He is pleased to record, as a sort
of poetic revenge, that Molineaux’s great-
great-nephew, John Henry Lewis, light-
heavyweight champion of the world, was
piped ashore by a guard of honor when
he visited a land where his relative had
been most unfairly treated:
Whether you like it or not (and I do not)
Tom Cribb was Old England incarnate.
As Borrow put it: “Hail to thee six-feet
Englishman with the brown eye, worthy
to have carried a six-foot bow at Flodden
. . .” But Cribb was a lucky champion.
With Jem Mace we come to the link
with America and Australia. Deaf Burke,
Ben Caunt, Jem Ward and others fol-
lowed Jem Mace to America, and others
who, after Mace, developed prizefighting
in the United States. There was the link
with Kilrain and John L. Sullivan
and, in Australia, Jem Mace taught Larry
Foley, whose pupils—Frank Slavin,
Peter Jackson, Bob Fitzsimmons —were,
very probably, the best heavy men in the
world in their day.
This golden age of Australian boxing
is done very competently in Big Fight,
with pride of place given to the Slavin-
Jackson fight at the National Sporting
Club in London. Batchelor records a
visit by Slavin to the club twenty years
later. Slavin was then “a white-haired
soldier of World War I.” Standing in
front of a portrait of Peter Jackson he
said; “He killed me as a boxer . . .
maybe he left me sour ; I felt that he had
robbed me of all my pride.”
Later Australian boxers Darcy,
Griffo, Palmer, Haines, Richards, Henne-
berry, Dave Sands —are mentioned; as
are more recent boxers, here and over-
seas. Everyone who is interested in the
sport at some time picks his ideal fights;
each man opposed at his peak. Here is
Batchelor’s selection:
Heavyweights; Peter Jackson v. Joe
Louis. Light-heavyweights: Bob Fitz-
simmons v. Georges Carpentier. Middle-
weights; Tom Sayers v. Sugar Ray
Robinson. Welterweights: Joe Walcott
(Barbados Diemon) v. Henry Armstrong.
Lightweights: Joe Cans v. Benny
Leonard. Featherweights; George Dixon
v. Jim Driscoll, Bantamweights : Joe
Bowker v, Jimmy Carruthers. Fly-
weights; Jimmy Wilde v. Benny Lynch.
It provides, anyway, a fruitful source
of discussion.
Father Divine
In The Incredible Father Divine (W.
H. Allen) Sara Harris cannot trace him
with certainty any further back than
1899, when he was gardening in Balti-
more. Then he was George Baker, one
of the congregation when the mulatto
preacher Samuel Morris announced in a
Baltimore pulpit that he (Morris) was
the “Father Eternal.” The congregation
dumped Morris on the pavement, and
Baker saw him home, and for his trouble,
when Morris became “Father Jehovia”
in 1907, Baker was reborn the “Mes-
senger.”
From “Messenger” Baker worked up
to the godhead by easy stages. Expelled
from Georgia in 1914 for causing dis-
content among colored-women servants,
he arrived in New York in 1915, and
soon finding that his four-room flat
would not accommodate his increasing
following he bought a twelve-room house
on Long Island, becoming “Major J.
Divine.” Here he began those riotous
orgies of virtue, of magnificent free meals
(“Every Sunday was like Christmas”),
singing and conversions, to which white
neighbors objected so strongly that the
district-attorney hired Rose Burrows to
pose as a destitute mulatto and look for
evidence. Three weeks later she reported
that she had not been able to discover a
shred of evidence of immorality or fraud.
On the contrary, she had seen many destitute
people welcomed and given shelter, clothes,
and plenty of food. When she had asked
“How can you afford to feed so
many people all the time?” he had answered,
“God provides through my personal body,”
He was reborn “Father Divine” in
1930; in 1932 he served 33 days of a
year’s sentence. The judge who put him
in died while Divine was in prison : “I
hated to do it,” said Father Divine.
No doubt the superman-fantasy of this
and many other well-known stories has
been responsible for his notoriety; but
from this book the more tough-minded
may gain some insight into the true rea-
sons for his success: he struck the depres-
sion, not with a message alone, but with
a well-organised and apparently unlimited
service of free lodgings and free meals ;
and he offered depressed negroes and
colored people their independence on
the hard terms which are often more wel-
come to those whose battle is in the
soul than is the easy way: they must not
accept charity or even tips ; they must
pay all their debts; they must not run
businesses for profit; they must, mar-
ried or single, give sex away completely.
The no-profit clause helps to explain
the great wealth (not of Divine, since
even the taxgatherers cannot convict him
of owning anything) of his movement.
Between the lines one reads a doubt
whether, in its early days at any rate, all
the money came from small followers,
though these give sometimes all their
wages and profits to the cause. However
the money is obtained it must now
amount to a very tidy sum, as the buying
of hotels for millions of dollars to be
thrown open to colored guests as well
as white proves amply.
The renunciation-of-sex clause is
responsible for the funniest story in this
often-very-funny book: of Dorrie Jones,
and how she called in a New York wel-
fare-worker to help her seduce her hus-
band back from Father Divine’s contin-
ence to deeds of darkness; how they
worked up from strip-teases to the
slathers of powder and perfume which at
last conquered Mr. Jones and resulted in
twins.
Another pair of backsliders secured a
judgment against Father Divine for
money contributed: Divine’s refusal to
pay was the reason why he moved to
Philadelphia, and is still the reason why
he cannot enter New York except on
Sundays.
Here also may be found the stories
of the wars with other Gods from which
Father Divine emerged triumphant, of
dissensions among his “Rosebud” colony
of delectable secretaries, of his “retribu-
tions” upon doubters, of his marriages,
business deals, attitude to Communists,
of his white followers, and of his refusal
to admit that any genuine member of his
movement can die. What will happen
when he dies himself God only knows.
Our Way of Life
The Australian Way of Life , edited by
George Caiger, under the auspices of the
Australian Institute of International
Affairs (Heinemann), is one of a series of
books planned by Unesco ; others are the
South African, British and French ways
of life. Professors, Research Fellows,
etc., each chew us over in a chapter.
The result in the present volume is
for the most part a collection of dry
generalisations which mean much or little
according to how much you bring to
them, and which are true or false accord-
ing to how you look at them. “Australia
is a classless community,” says Sir
Frederic Eggleston, in his chapter on
“The Australian Nation”; “there is no
one section with the traditional right to
govern.” From that exact point of view,
Sir Frederic is no doubt right; but W. D,
Borrie, in his chapter, on “The Family,”
shows how it works out in practice:
Australians pride themselves upon their
lack of class-consciousness, but while it
may be true that the differentiation between
rich and poor, employer and employee, is
less in evidence than in England, the fact
remains that there is differentiation,,..
Moreover, the areas in which the economic-
ally successful live are essentially “dormi-
tory sqtrurbs.” In these areas the bread-
winners, who are usually of the employer,
professional or white-collar classes, have
their business contacts in the city, but their
families tend to move only amongst mem-
bers of their own class.
But even though he considers Bernard
O’Dowd “the greatest of Australian
poets,” Sir Frederic Eggleston has some
good things to say about the Irish and
the Scottish in Australia, particularly the
Irish, whom he finds taking a dispropor-
tionate part in our affairs;
Unfortunately, it cannot be said that the
Irish have added to the gaiety of Australia.
There seems, in the 20th century, to be a
, steady decay of the Irish sense of humor.
In Australia they are grim, purposeful, and
successful in most walks of life—not con-
spicuously Celtic, not a people of poets
and orators, but of organisers, politicians,
union officials, publicans and public ser-
vants. But they have leavened Australian
life. The one-third Irish blood in the com-
munity gives the people a character
definitely different from that of the British —
more logical, more ideological, given to
faction and resistant to authority.
And he gives a hint to Australian
authors which they should certainly snap
up;
Australians should found in their
political life the material for a satirical
novel, a vein peculiarly suitable to their
mentality, but the opportunity has never
been grasped.
Dr. K. S. Cunningham traces
the general evolution of what came to
be known as “the best system of education
in the world.” It is true that during the
first decade or two of this century Aus-
tralia did anticipate features now common
in national systems of education. How-
ever, the very complacency reflected in the
phrase used above was partly responsible
for the fact that expenditure on schools
from about 1920 did not increase as fast
as did those of most other English-speaking
countries. For the last ten or fifteen years,
neither the public nor the profession has
had any illusions that Australia had noth-
ing to learn.
Writing very sensitively on our religi-
ous institutions. Rev. K, T. Henderson
sees room for hope:
For good and evil the visible separation
of religion from art, literature, journalism,
as well as business, industry, politics and
entertainment, has been proceeding apace.
The writer can produce no tangible proof,
but he feels that the robust and eager self-
confidence, the rejoicing-in-itself, has died
out of Australian secularism, and—given
the artists and thinkers to mediate—a recon-
ciliation in Australian life, between secular
and spiritual idealists, and religious inspira-
tion and the creative arts, is not so unthink-
able as it would have been between the
wars. There are, as it were, currents now
running across the Australian “atmosphere”
that would now carry the Word, if the Word
were spoken on certain wave-lengths.
Professor P. H. Partridge writes on our
political institutions and aspirations;
Professor G. L. Wood on our economic
institutions and aspirations; and Profes-
sor F, Alexander on “The Australian
People and the World”:
Meanwhile, full employment prevailed;
inflationist tendencies were held in check
during the first five post-war years by the
retention of some of the highly-successful
war-time price-controls; Australian stomachs
were reasonably well-filled even after infla-
tionist forces broke through in 1950; the
Australian sun Continued to shine on the
beaches, in suburban householders’ gardens,
on playing fields and tennis courts; beer-
supplies were adequate, if sometimes
rationed; and the pervasive racing industry
continued to thrive among an Australian
people most of whom welcomed the addi-
tional leisure of a forty-hour week, for the
constructive use of which they had little
training, limited experience and relatively
few facilities.
Reviewed Briefly
Private Enterprise: Robert Standish
(Peter Davies). It’s not often you see a
book of short-stories these days, especi-
ally good, simple ones. Eight of these
were first printed in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post.” The first is of an old money-
bag’s plot to beat the British death-duties;
the second of a French smuggler’s clever
turning-of-tables upon a confrere who
was trying to have him arrested for mur-
der ; the third is of the disgraceful hap-
penings in India when either a tiger or a
young man in a striped blazer was seen
coming out of the tent of the colonel’s
wife —there are 13 more, including six
Chinese stories ; all clever stories in which
the cleverness does not insist, and cheer-
ful stories in which the humor is never
overdone.
* * * *
A Love Knot: J. E. Mikellatos (Peter
Davies). There was a time when a novel
containing a brother and two sisters
named Tristram, Olivia and Laetitia
Fyffe, with brother’s best friend called
Joss Arbel, would have run to such
phrases as “Unhand me, villain!” and
“No, no, I am too young!” These days,
Tristram, finding his best friend emerg-
ing from Laetitia’s bedroom in the “small
hours,” merely makes the mild suggestion
that it is rather bad form for a guest to
carry on like that under the parental roof,
and, being asked what alternative he can
suggest, “sneered with a contemptu-
ous little smile, ‘lt’s not for me to dic-
tate the time and place.”’ Under a
surface-enamel of bright undergraduate
conversation, the book is essentially
melodrama and not very enthralling.
* * * *
How to Clean Everything: Alma
Chesnut Moore (Werner Laurie). How
to get anything off anything —or as much
as possible; for the author freely admits
that Indian-ink stains are “difficult,
if not impossible, to remove when they
are old or if they have penetrated the
fabric deeply.” In all, 192 pages in
double-columns, alphabetical order;
Part I (165 pages) tells you how to clean
diamonds, diapers, deep-freezers, wrought-
iron, iron furniture, silver (four pages),
slate, sponge-rubber, taps, tapestry,
wicker, windows, woodwork, etc. Part
II covers stain-removers ; how to remove
stains of cod-liver oil, coffee and tea,
fingernail-polish, grass, gravy, indelible
pencil, rust, mascara, mildew, mustard,
tar, tobacco, etc. With a list of absorb-
ents, bleaches, solvents, washing-agents,
etc.
* * * *
The Love Eaters: Mary Lee Settle
(Heinemann). Interesting first novel by
a young American woman who has been
living in England since the war, but who
obviously recalls her own country wi
great distinctness. Canona is a m 0111^ 3 "
town, with coal. The wealthier and,
better-educated of the Canona wome
occupy their winter leisure m produc a
plays in the converted Methodist Chapei,
which has become the permanent t
of the Canona Thespians. In the winte
of the book’s action a paid professional
director, Hamilton Sacks, comes
vise their efforts. His elderly mother
accompanies him, for Sacks, th
plans find, is a cripple confined to
wheelchair. He is also, as mos
unsophisticated ladies prefer no .
Use, homosexual. Martha Dodd *
president of the Thespians and soou
leader of the town, has more
than theatrical temperament on n
hands that winter-a son of ** ™
band’s more-or-less handsome,
riage turns up. Selby Dodd is a
unsettling young man desper y
to fit into the Canona background
privileged and wealthy Pf* tion and
mask his shabby : genteel e^ c * t,o ;; nder .
Chicago-slum ? attltude . s ' Sacks
stands Selby s problems d son>
understands (and fears) her P
■ h 1 ' ' ; ■ , iJ
AT TINTAGEL
The dark wind blows from the sea;
The tremor of grass ia grey,
The blind thorn fingers the wall.
The torn wave cries to the stone.
Cease the wind only an hour.
The crevice may hold its green,
The thorn branch rise from the rock
Through the sunlit surge of its flowers.
And the tongue of the sea lie coiled
In the mouth of the tolling cave.
But never the dark wind stays.
Blowing from Death to death—
Failed rock and the cringing thorn,
May the lock of our limbs withstand
When the dark wind blows on our love?
LONDON.
VAL VALLIS.
PALM
Earth, air, water, light,
Are one within your slender grace,
Formed by Wisdom to requite
The labors of a shadowed race.
Upon your sacral column, pure
Witness to the inward eye,
There rests for an entablature
The invisible order of the sky.
*1
Though in your verdant crown may lurk
The crab, the viper, and the rat,
Through you the spirit-watchers work
Their visible magnificat.
Thread-rooted immobility,
Lithe in a stationary dance,
The whirlwind walking on the sea
Cannot overthrow your stance.
Far overhead the hornbills ride.
And, while the south-east season strains,
Tormented foliage blown one side
Flares out like turning windmill-vanes.
But mostly, stilled to trance, O palm,
Your paradisal plumage rears
Its fountain, and amidst the calm
A milky flowering spathe appears;
Which an ascending youth incises
Deftly with a bamboo knife.
Whence a fermenting fluid rises
Like joy within the common life.
Axis of a world, indeed!
Your tan fruits, ripening, fall;
You serve the race’s humble need
For food and craft and festival.
And standing silent in the, night
Your crown of foliage fills
With clear drops of glimmering light
Which the serene of heaven distils.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


ISLES OF THE SUN
Charles Barrett
An important travel book of New Guinea and the Islands of the
Torres Strait, written by a Naturalist who writes with authority.
48 half-tone illustrations.
At all booksellers - - 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE ; : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
NOW AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
SARA DANE
By CATHERINE GASKIN
A Major Historical Novel of Australia
COLLINS
THE KEYLINE PLAN
By P. A. YEOMANS
A mucker, cheaper, new method of pasture improvement and water conservation.
A nastoralist and engineer, Mr. Yeomans has attempted to devise a workable plan
for all crop and pasture lands that will show results next season and next year
■ind everv year following. **ltis revolutionary method ot cultivation to build up
soil absorntion of rain and air . . . is well worth serious consideration by every
farmer 'and grazier.” (Q’land Country fife). Mr. Yeomans presents his Key line
Plan fully accurately and clearly, and illustrates it with 21 black-and-white and
6 colour photographs, 8 maps and 4 sketches. 37/6 (post 9d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for all the books you want to .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagb Si., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
No one else in Canona understands any-
thing very much —Anne Randolph Potter,
whose daughter half falls in love with
Selby, understands neither the girl nor
her own jealousy, nor her bluff, lonely
husband. Martha fails to realise the im-
plications of her own feelings for her
stepson, while her husband, Jim Dodd,
is too pleased to have a ready-made son
to question anything. The novel’s title
comes from an interpretation of
“Incubus,” as meaning a damned angel
who lives by feeding on human love.
Sacks has described Selby as an incubus.
Selby is not, however, the only feeder
on love in this book. Mary Lee Settle has
handled her material with cleverness and
wit—these people are not neurotics, and
the situation in which they find them-
selves contains its own remorseless, if
unpleasant, logic. In a way The Love
Eaters carries a moral: sane people
should not forsake sane living.
* * * *
No Memorial: Anthony Babington
(Heinemann). One form of book must
surely be unique to the twentieth cen-
tury : the account of how someone who
once would surely have died quickly from
disease or injury has been saved thanks
to advances in medical and allied sciences,
and has then surmounted the difficulties
of his disablements to resume a useful
life. Anthony Babington received such
shocking head injuries during the war
that one side of his body was paralysed
and for a long time it was thought that
he would be permanently dumb. Surgery,
physiotheraapy, speech-therapy and his
own determination combined to achieve
such an improvement in his condition
that he was eventually able to study for
the Bar. No sooner had he completed his
final examinations than he developed
pulmonary tuberculosis. This cured, he
persisted in his aim to enter private prac-
tice, against the advice of many genuine
friends and advisers. Just established in
Chambers he succumbed to a pleurisy,
which eventually led to the removal of
half a lung. The book concludes with the
completion of his first successful case.
No Memorial is a most sincere account
of bravery opposed to adversity. The
author describes, too, his acquisition of
a religion and philosophy without which
he is sure he would have given in to per-
manent invalidism.
* * *
Sentinels from Space : Eric Frank Rus-
sell (Science Fiction). “Maybe he will,”
agreed Raven, with some doubt. “Obstacle
number-two is the natural consequence
of civilisations co-existent on three planets.
Suppose Thorster tries to persuade
them to arrange simultaneously pogroms
designed to rid humanity of its too-clever
boys. Each planet immediately suspects
a trap. If it slaughters its own mutants
while the others do n0t....” Also:
“Armada of eight-hundred ships setting
out from Scoria to avenge that pair that
disappeared. They have shielded the
pilots’ brains with platinum casques and
have new type force projectors installed
on every ship. .Somebody means busi-
ness!” That’s no business of ours.
♦ * * *
Lord Arthur Savile’s Crime: Oscar
Wilde (Joseph Waters, Melbourne).
Printed in England for Mr. Waters, this
famous Wilde story is got up much like
a child’s storybook, with wood-engravings
printed in two colors, by Dorothy Braby,
forceful, if not subtle ; and large type
on a squarish page. Edward J. Fluck
contributes a postscript about the story.
Grey cloth cover ; and fitted into a card-
board box. Obviously got-up for pre-
sentation ; and Wilde is one of the very
few writers whose short stories would
warrant a book apiece, especially in what
seems to be more a commercial than a
fine-art production.
* * * ♦
Fifty Years of Farming: James Keith
(Faber), Books about agriculture are
enjoying a run of popularity in America
and Britain and, to a degree, here. Major
James Keith, C.8.E., was trained as a
civil engineer but turned to farming
early—a pursuit interrupted by service
in War I, but, with that exception, fol-
lowed steadfastly until his death last year.
He differs from a majority of the more
popular overseas writers on the subject
(authors turned farmer, and the like) in
the fact that he was a practical man.
Starting with 200 acres, he expanded
slowly until he farmed, alone and in
partnership, some 17,000 acres in Aber-
deenshire and Norfolk; although he
barely weathered the agricultural slump
of 1923. His book, if less exciting than
most of the more publicised ones of its
kind, is less apt to be misleading. Some
of the problems discussed—such as drain-
age—are remote from general Australian
practice and experience, although New
Zealanders may find more interest in
them. But for the common threads of
the subject—what may be called the
philosophy of farming—and as a study
of U.K. agriculture, sounder than most
and more readable than many, the book
is heartily recommended. Sir William
Ogg, Director of Rothamsted, describes
Keith as “one of the great farmers of our
time.”
* * * *
Gargantua and Pantagruel ; Rabelais
(Everyman, vols. 826 and 827). Complete
and unabridged, in the one-and-only
Urquhart-Motteux translation, with an
introduction by D. B. Wyndham Lewis,
it is classified under “Romance” in the
library’s list; and with the slight altera-
tions that have been made to the Every-
man page, and the plain cloth binding,
it feels much more like the ribald old
cure than the old green-covered edition
with the saintly gold ornamentation on
the spine.
* * * *
The Story of the World’s Police:
Richard Harrison (Phcenix House). For
children of all ages, a survey of the his-
tory of the British force; Scotland Yard,
the duties of an ordinary policeman;
fingerprints ; scientific detection ; police-
procedure in court and British trial pro-
cedure ; prison-methods; police in Aus-
tralia, Canada, India, New Zealand,
South Africa, America and various Euro-
pean countries ; and a concluding chapter
on “the Private Eye.” With some 30
illustrations from photographs. Chosen
as “Young Elizabethan Book of the
Month.”
* * * *
St. Thomas’s Eve : Jean Plaidy (Robert
Hale). Sir (or Saint) Thomas More was
a classic example of the unwisdom of
putting one’s trust in princes, although in
this fictionalised account of his life Jean
Plaidy shows that the honors and offices
which Henry VIII thrust upon him were
neither of his seeking nor desire. The
book has been greatly praised by critics
for its historical authenticity—More’s
canonisation in 1935 aroused consider-
able interest in his life, and there were,
therefore, recent works available to the
author. It is well written, but in her
anxiety to understate the essential high
drama of her theme Miss Plaidy seems
too cautious altogether; against the rich
background of Tudor “Merrie England”
More's happy little family group seem
precious and priggish. The novel’s main
fascination is its pictures of Tudor domes-
tic organisaton and arrangements.
* *
1-, ~ A w tPvfrvman
®toStv”
Vol. 337). Somewhat n cs>'. y
one who grew up wrth Ktnglake s e,ght-
volume harangue on the Crimean War
on his father’s bookshelf, Harold Spender
points out in his introduction that the
Kinglake of this amusing and casual book
of travel in the Middle East—Turkey,
Egypt, Palestine, etc.—is not the later
cultivator of the Corinthian style who
made a kind of historical Madame
Tussaud’s of the British Army in an effort
to execute a Greek frieze. ” Here he is
the naturally sarcastic English traveller-
of-quality, angularly contemptuous alike
of pashas in Belgrade and plague in
Cairo. The interview with the eccentric
Lady Hester Stanhope in her old convent
on the Lebanon range is a little master-
piece of literary draughtsmanship ; and
throughout the observation of the Middle
East of those times (1835) is as clear and
to the point as such writings in our own
times, and maybe more so; though here
and there are outbursts, such as the short
chapter on “The Sphinx,” which may
justify Spender's remark: “Like many
other writers, Kinglake requires a great
subject. Give him that, and he is of the
best.”
* * * *
The talced Lady: Mark Corrigan
(Berner Laurie). Investigating the mur-
<jer of a Chinese antique-dealer, Corrigan
encounters the corrupt police-chief,
mayor, and crooked police-officer (all
brothers) of a prosperous U.S. raining
town. The murders are so frequent that
they cease to surprise; the naked lady
j on [y a statue tte; and, as one expected,
ob i viousl honest character , urae d out
-
«> he the viUam.
* * * ♦
The Young Traveller in Tropical
Africa: Wilfrid Robertson (Phoenix
House), One of the series, which now
totals 17, of visits by imaginary children
to various countries, of which the “Aus-
tralia” book, reviewed some years ago
on the Red Page, was considered pretty
good” by the reviewer’s child. Well-pro-
duced little books, they give a great deal
of geographical information as dialogue.
This one covers the Belgian Congo, Portu-
guese Angola, Northern Rhodesia, Portu-
guese Mozambique, Tanganyika, Uganda,
Kenya Colony and Zanzibar ; and the
author, as is the custom of the series, has
written considerably elsewhere about this
field. With 31 photographs.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 298
Across
I—Disadvantage of the innings I
surpass. (8)
s—The5 —The answer to 3-down gives a
clue for this girl with an Iranian
esplanade. (6)
10— Five do wrong with potassium
and a spirit. (5)
11 — Springs as a natural result from
a couple of hundred streets. (7)
12— Crook cuckoo begins to be jerry-
built. (3-4)
13— Story isn’t his or hers or yours,
(7)
15 — A prescribed portion of the
musical tonic given by direction.
(4)
16— Mixed oil changes orchards. (9)
17— A cannibal (or you) might make
hash of him. (4)
21— Curse punctuation and hurry the
vitality. (4)
22 It is nothing to attempt a street
assignation. (4-5)
23 I am in the cooler, and gladly;
but the fish-propeller holds one.
(4)
25—Some relief to a ruler sunbakxng
the epidermis in the sack. (7)
27 — A joker who gives millinery to
Queen Elizabeth twice. (7)
28 — Charles’s supporter has the cata-
logue for the motor show. (7)
29 In" favor of manuscript entertain-
ments in London. (5)
30— It enables Cancer to bite a child
try an Oriental in the first place.
(6)
31—Extracts all the nourishment from
the musical world of saps. (8)
Down
1 — A difficult one to Robin in the
state of the man who wrote
“Under the Greenwood Tree”
with bravery, audacity, and
endurance. (9)
2 Binds the last work of fiction
among the “surprises.” (9)
3 Federal electorate is one vessel
in the Oriental trade. (8)
4 Dumbfounded monkey named
after Agnes. (5)
6 Charge for the Adelaide Cricket
Club to use the lower end of it.
(6)
7 Put out the light keynote and
employ you in 15 across, but it’s
steep. (5) . .
8— An irregular home for a pig is
unpleasant. (5)
9_Australian comedian’s on strike
in the place where St. John the
Divine wrote “Revelation.” (6)
14— The kingdom containing De-
bussy’s “Sunken Cathedral” is
seen as leaving Yass. (2)
15— English county of two European
forms. (5)
18 — Magical expression in prose they
changed. (3, 6)
19— A very successful show or a girl
slogger’s policy. (3-2-4)
20 —The street works knock off. (4, 4)
22 — Slight difference. (6)
23 — It is included in the punishment
with limits, (6)
24 — Article a year in France. (2)
25 — Rasher essayist. (5)
26 — Length of leather roles on the
way up. (5)
27 — Capricorn has been to the
chiropodist in this island. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 297


"«T*n
nnEB
nnfm
ii
ii u an cm tra tm
il ii an an cm an
II
ii ii an an
ii »
llil
11,
«* It
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL.
M.R.A.C.P.
General Manager:
C, A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES;
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Coliins, 8.A..
IX.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Garrick, A.A.S.A.
•'
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N, Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers, Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager: L. H. Williams
•
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J, M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust,)
Manager: W. Dwyer
He
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Jncorpmated in New South Wales in 187 S)
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1953;
★
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 10,125
Policies assuring £12,863,721.
mm..
★
ASSETS INCREASED BY £2.269,237 after providing £28.585
for Depreciation, and now total £25,747.579,
<1 Policies in Force exceed 127,000, assuring
over £82,000,000
I Premium Income amounted to £3,003,787
<1 Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1953,
totalled £978,845, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£15,750,000
I Special Additional Reserves amount to
£BOO,OOO
<1 Increased Bonuses
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
