

T H
w
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLiiRO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
AUSTRALIAN BUSH BALLADS: DOUGLAS STEWART
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3873
Wednesday, May 5, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at die General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
A FAMOUS LONDON LANDMARK, THE ROYAL EXCHANGE
P a , n of . Londoa is known as the City and at th hub of this
Cnmhin ™ n ? e . rc . ia i rcgl ? a where Threadneedle Street, Lombar Street and
it meet in a seething vortex of purposeful traffic, is the Royal Exchange.
FvrhlnL Pr l Se M! “ ng the third of its kind to stand on the site; the first
Great pfr’e J S F Tho ™ as , Gresham in 1564, destroyed by the
fo WH I i 666, •£ n T Change met a like fate in 1838 and this was
lwTi by the existing building, designed by Sir William Tite in 1842,
Plilah T S r op * ene , d hy Queen Victoria. Her statue and also that of Queen
navemonf L S !£ nds ? n - interior court where can be seen the tessellated
pavement of the original building of almost 400 years ago.
■ .Tk® origin of the Royal prefix dates from the visit of Queen Elizabeth J
fJu u D , commanded that by herald and sound of trumpet it should
henceforth be known as the Royal Exchange. Ever since that day proclama-
t ions, with the sounding of trumpets, have been made from the steps of
the Royal Exchange. Here, on February 6th, 1952, a fanfare of trumpets
followed the Proclamation of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth 11, is shown in
the accompanying photograph.
The first Exchange was modelled on the bourse of Antwerp and it began
its long history as a fashionable bazaar as well as a meeting-place for merchants
to discuss present and prospective schemes for City trade. To-day the
building is occupied entirely by an assurance company, no exchange business
is transacted.
The magnificent Corinthian portico has a pediment 74 feet high with a
crowned figure of Britannia holding the charter of the Exchange. A vast
and impressive hall, 100 yards long, with two tiers of arches rising to a
glass-domed roof opens from the portico and here can be seen one of the
finest picture galleries in London—paintings which depict incidents of great
historical interest such as “Phoenicians trading with the Ancient Britons,”
“King John sealing Magna Charta,” “Alfred the Great rebuilding the City
walls”-—to name a few.
A familiar landmark to Londoners is the golden grasshopper which sur-
mounts the Royal Exchange. This huge replica survived the Great Fire of 1666
and also the burning of the second Royal Exchange in 1838.


IJy I
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters i
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stolft Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
j -CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON “j
| To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli- I
■ gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of |
■ your Literary Courses. I
I
J MY NAME
| ADDRESS
j (S.B. 954) AGE.
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau. P.O. Box 965, Weßrngton.
N Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus
tralian books, also in bookish items of general“
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advanc
news, gossip and book sale prices. _ (Annual sub. 5/.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in AM
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, fora and j
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and public
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN BUSH BALLADS
By DOUGLAS STEWART
“The Bulletin” of the ’nineties was the traditional home of the bush ballad,
the greatest single source for the material which Nancy Keesing and myself have
selected for the anthology on which we have been working for the past two years—
“ Australian Bush Ballads”; to be published by Angus and Robertson about
August this year—and for that reason it seems appropriate to me to print in ‘The
Bulletin” of today some account of the anthology and of the thoughts on the ballad
which will go to form the preface.
The purpose of the anthology is to
preserve and presen: in the compact
array of a single volume the bush ballads
of the ’nineties.
In period the selection ranges from the
1860’s to the present day, but the core of
it lies in that central period when, after
the stimulus of Adam Lindsay Gordon,
the ballad came to its full flower in the
works of “Banjo” Paterson, Will Ogilvie,
Henry Lawson, Barcroft Boake and many
others.
To keep the anthology to this one clear
statement it was necessary, of course, to
make certain vast omissions.
In the first place a line—roughly of
time ; roughly of style and flavor —had
to be drawn between these comparatively
sophisticated ballads and the sub-soil of
primitive immigrant and convict songs
and ballads from which, in part, they
sprang. All the early colonial material
collected by Paterson for his Old Bush
Songs, with such additional songs and
ballads as later research has discovered,
has been left for a projected companion-
volume, itself now practically complete.
It is not the intention in Australian Bush
Ballads to present the ticket-of-leave man
triumphantly bellowing over his pannikin
of rum the naive and uproarious challenge
of “The Wild Colonial Boy”:
“Surrender now, Jack Doolan, you see
there’s three to one.
Surrender now, Jack Doolan, you daring
highwayman.”
He drew a pistol from his belt and waved
the little toy,
“I’ll fight but not surrender!” said the wild
Colonial boy.
but rather “Banjo” Paterson, who, bush-
man though he was at heart and in origin,
became a city lawyer and newspaperman,
distilling for a much later audience, of
the city as well as the outback, the
romance of horsemanship and droving:
Now Saltbush Bill was a drover tough, as
ever the country knew,
He had fought his ways on the Great Stock
Routes from the sea to the big Barcoo.
In the second place, apart from the
inevitable limitation of space, much of
the material available within the period
of the anthology had to be omitted. Since
the selection was to be of the bush, all
ballads of the streets, of larrikins or of
the sea were automatically excluded. The
principal loss here —C. J. Dennis’s Senti-
mental Bloke being out of the question in
any case as essentially narrative verse,
lacking the ring of the true ballad, the
swiftness and simplicity of movement —
was in some of the seafaring ballads of
E. J. Brady, Will Lawson, C. H. Souter
and V. J. Snadden. However, Will Law-
son is, I hope, adequately represented by
some of his bush pieces; and Brady’s
bush rhymes and ballads have, in fact.
Ivays seemed to me more vital, more
thentic than his saltwater ballads,
lich rarely tell a story and mostly con-
t of the conventional rollicking fare-
lls to imaginary ladies. He was not a
lor ; and he did travel in the bush.
Since the anthology is Australian, all
;w Zealand ballads are excluded: some
:eties of national definition being made
allow the inclusion of Will Lawson
d David McKee Wright, who became
ablished as Australian writers by long
sidence, and of C. H. Winter, an Aus-
ilian balladist who strayed to the snows
Otago but continued to write about
ought and kangaroos. Rather than
ake too strict a rule it seemed best
aturally, no doubt, to an anthologist
lose own nationality has been found
mewhat confusing) simply to include
ything that might reasonably be claimed
Australian and to exclude the rest.
Since it is an anthology of ballads,
rms which were not ballads had to be
eluded. Chief among these were lyric
>etry, narrative poetry and comic verse.
It is sometimes rather awkward to
;cide whether or not a particular poem
a ballad ; and I should not care, for
stance, to be questioned too closely on
le propriety (in a literary sense)
[ “The Shearer’s Serenade,” a rich
id Rabelaisian outburst which was
riginaliy entitled “Polyphemus and
ralatea” and which, 1 suppose,
eing a parody on Tennyson, is
jsentially comic verse. It was, though,
resistible. I might find it awkward,
gain,, to prove that some of the pedes-
ian but vividly authentic stories of the
Oldfields by J. E. Liddle and H. Head
fere ballads and not narrative verse:
ley seem possibly justifiable inclusions,
specially as they are never likely to be
eprinted anywhere else.
But, in general, taking the ballad to be
ssentially a simple story of action, swift
nd direct in movement, having even in
ts humorous moments a certain weight
•f the soil, it is easy enough to decide
vhat should be admissible. I principally
egret losing John Farrell, whose ballads
eemed too literary and melodramatic to
)e worth including and whose “My Sun-
iowner,” a most diverting far-fetched
farn of the bush which should be
-eprinted in an illustrated booklet,
s written in Byron’s “Don Juan”
itanza and must be classed as a
;omic narrative, too long to be
anuggled-in unobserved by one’s con-
science ; and also Mary Gilmore, whose
Dallads, being mostly in the medieval
radition, were outside our field and whose
‘The Shepherd” —one of the loveliest and
nost deeply significant poems in Aus-
:ralian literature —is essentially lyric
poetry, more concerned with the “image
Tan with story-telling. If the typical
Australian ballad is
There was movement at the station for the
word had passed around
That the colt from old Regret had got away,
then Mary Gilmore, though drawing her
image from the same soil, is in a different
and far higher territory of poetry when
she buries the old shepherd
Out, all alone
On a bleak hillside,
And there’s never a sound
But the bleat of the sheep,
As they nibble the mound
That marks his sleep.
Similar distillations of the ballad
country into lyric poetry in the songs of
Louis Esson and in such later writings as
Judith Wright’s “Bullocky” and David
Campbell’s “Harry Pearce” have been
omitted for the same reason; as also
we have omitted all later experiments in
the ballad not directly continuing the
Australian tradition of the ’nineties.
There has, too, been some preference
given to what might be called professional
balladists, at the expense of poets and
literary men who, as so many did in the
heyday of the ballad, occasionally turned
to this form.
Finally, with a few representative
exceptions in the section we have
entitled “Old Days, Old Ways ” we have
omitted a vast mass of baUadhkevers
written, broadly, after 1914 when the
ballad ceased to be a vehicle for vigorous
story-telling and became largely a lament
for “the good old days’: as it is, tor
example, in almost all the verses of hm
Grahame” (J. W. Gordon). Much charm-
ing verse of a semi-ballad, semi-poetic
kind, evoking the spirit of bush places and
days long gone, was written in tins period
of decline ; but in mass, all on the one
nostalgic theme, it becomes exceedingly
monotonous. The ballad at its peak is
a story swinging direct into action, as
when Ogilvie’s “Fire Queen” crossed the
swamp:
The flood was down in the Wilga swamps,
three feet over the mud,
And the teamsters camped on the Wilga
range and swore at the rising flood ■ • • •
I But Dan stood up to his leader s head and
fondled the big brown nose:
“There’s many a mile in the roan team yet
before they are feed for the crows ....
When it is in decline we have the gentle,
romantic nostalgia of “The Old Cool-
gardie Road”:
No clouds of dust betoken
The old-time roaring days;
It keeps a peace unbroken
Throughout its winding ways.
But when at noontide hour
The warm white sunlight streams
Through crimson gums in flower,
The old road lives in dreams.
* * * *
With all that is inappropriate thus
trimmed away, there remained foi this
volume the Australian bush ballad; the
ebullition of the ’nineties, robust, humor-
ous, earthy and heroic.
As to how this most vigorous and pro-
lific of Australian literary movements
originated there are, I believe, two con-
flicting schools of thought. Some say it
grew naturally out of the older folk-
poetry which the first immigrants brought
with them from England, Ireland and
Scotland or which, mostly to express their
indignation at the climate, the prices, the
fleas, their overseers if they were convicts
and their employers if they were free,
they invented as soon as they got here.
Others say it was essentially a literary
movement, originated by Adam Lindsay
Gordon.
Both of these seem to me excellent
theories, and both unquestionably true.
The old bush songs must surely have
inspired the later writers to emulation,
though it is rarely, except in some of
Louis Esson’s songs, that one sees them
I actually rewritten. Gordon’s “The Sick
tockrider” inspired many an imitation,
nd there can be no doubt of his influence
n all the horse-riding and racing ballads
diich came pellmell after him.
It is also true, I daresay, that, as one
ritic has argued, the ballad arose in part
rom, and was much nourished by, the
iabit of “singing to the cattle” which
hovers practised at night to keep the
lalf-wild herds tranquil: though, ot
:ourse, as the propounder of that theory
vould recognise, it would not explain
he goldfields ballads, unless the fos-
nckers sang to the goats. It is also
rue that Bret Harte influenced the Aus-
ralian ballad at one stage, as doubtless
iid other American writers whom The
Bulletin occasionally reprinted: one has
Dnly to look at Mathieu’s “That Day at
Boiling Downs” with its strange importa-
tions of Red Indians and scalping into
the Australian outback to find confirma-
tion of Bret Harte’s influence, or indeed
there is sufficient evidence in the title of
H. Head’s That Heathen Chinee in A us-
fralia.
It is true, again—witness the opening
lines of “Saltbush Bill,” straight from
The Jungle 800k —
Now this is the law of the Overland that
all in the West obey—
A man must cover with travelling sheep a
six-mile stage a day
—that Kipling was also an influence ; and
one which, admirable as his ballads are
in their own territory, we must regret,
for the Australian ballad got out of tone
somehow, distorted, not quite right either
in feeling or language, when the writers
copied that master.
One other influence, that of the medi-
eval Border balladists, is equally clear in
the directness of method, the leaping to
horse and away, and in many ai ringing
line. And I see no reason why my own
favorite theory should not also be
accepted as at least partly true: that the
Australian balladists were simply a re-
incarnation of the old Border rhymers, or
at least that the old Scottish power of
song, dormant in the blood through the
centuries when the clans were subdued
and dispersed, leapt to life again in the
wild freedom of the new country. Gordon,
Paterson, Ogilvie, these three leaders of
the movement were all Scots. Lawson
| r be accounted an accident, a short
y writer of genius who turned to
ads because everybody else was writ-
them and because there was a ready
ket for popular rhyme in The Bulle-
; and of the other most famous names
•ugh 1 do not know the ancestry of
croft Boake) Brady, Quinn, David
K.ee Wright and “John O’Brien” were
a by descent, old harpers singing
in.
lut the sum of all these pleasant
sries is, I think, simply that the ballad
se in Australia spontaneously. The
was prepared for it; the men were
eto compose it; the time was ripe for
it sprang from the earth and it
vered.
n the search for the mainspring of the
lad nothing could be more misleading,
m one point of view, than to say, as do
many overseas visitors and critics of
■ literature, that Australia was “a
mg country.” It was populated first
administrators, soldiers, clergymen,
ders and convicts, then by swarms of
migrants from every class of society in
gland, Scotland and Ireland: and it is,
isequently, precisely as “old” as Great
tain. Governor Lachlan Macquarie as
back as 1819, we should remember,
d his Poet Laureate; and Michael
issey Robinson, who used to receive
nually a fee of two cows for his poetical
vices, was certainly no less cultured
man, if no more inspired a poet, than
e or Colley Cibber. When we were
iding through the earliest colonial
igazines and newspapers in search of
aterial for this anthology it was not
e crudity of the verse that fascinated
iss Keesing and myself, but its appalling
Dgance. . .
But there is a sense in which it is true
say that Australia, roughly until the
rst World War, when the Machine Age
uttered much of the isolation of the
itback, was a young country. Away
om the city, life was hard, lonely and
[venturous. In the midst of the nine-
enth century men were plunged, some
iltured, some ignorant, into the primi-
/e conditions of the frontier, much as
en in modern warfare are thrown back
i the conditions where ballads naturally
ise ; where the printed word was scarce,
here there were great feats of courage
id horsemanship to be commemorated
id crimes and tragedies to be shaped
ito form, understood and assimilated. A
new nation was forming itself on a new
irth, the complaining immigrants of the
rst generation had changed into Aus-
alians accepting and loving their hot
ountry and needing their writers to tell
lem what they were made of: and so,
peaking simply to simple men, putting
leir lives into easily memorable form and
hythm, serving the purpose of the news-
aper, the novel and the poetic drama
i more civilised communities, the ballad
rose inevitably to fulfil the country s
6cd. .
Whether the men outback composed
heir own ballads, as they often did, or
whether Paterson, in the city, spoke for
hem, the purpose was identical; it was
lot so much that they sang to the cattle
is that they sang to themselves, tranquil-
ising their own loneliness, rejoicing in
heir own heroic exploits, grinning with
i certain pride at their own hard-bitten
eflections. And, of course, the need was
is profound in the cities as in the bush,
:of the same discovery of nationhood
vas being made throughout the continent
md, crowding close upon the city mind,
lowever cultivated, was that same vasti-
;ude of sunlight and red earth in which
the national character was being formed.
The outback was the great reality ; every
summer wind blew it into the cities with
the smell of burning gumleaves. Coincid-
ing with that upsurge of nationalism
which resulted in Federation, part of the
same movement which was reflected also
in the prose of Henry Lawson, Joseph
Furphy and Steele Rudd, the ballad spoke
for the nation.
* * * *
For that reason it seems to me no bad
thing on the whole that a bust of Adam
Lindsay Gordon should stand in West-
minster Abbey to represent Australian
poetry. We have had, of course, in such
writers as Hugh McCrae, Brennan, Slessoi
and Fitz Gerald, much finer artists in the
high way of poetry; nor is Gordon, who
wrote surprisingly little on Australian
(Continued on page 34)


' v: 1
- _____ _Vj J * . /» *
s>£>
W
M
iX: '
■
* - .
.iff;! <l
p
, O/*
■
w
ll
; o
rf&
&■
t
BKSs»
o vo g|
m
H
H
¥1
>r : a
w
"S'.#*
IT 8 ?* ■ : o
I>A^4
<o&
m
ii
; :'
m
0‘
Is;
/fi?3
VW-'
'l4
;-V/
HlB
i
f?
v i
f:
«iS.
in
al t
-Y'>;
fj
■H
m
mi
JN
A
6*.
as
K™
Ifeli h m
i n
Ml * - M
I 'i;:
m
O'-
m
I
o£.
x *;
I#? i»
&
£
is
«
£
?
X*3
J'
111
• ■ ~vw>; , :•
✓ fflAi
fW'%
ii
#1
sf
- vnfH
f I It ?I -I
li*]. 1
m i i
■
w
\ ■
H
si.
.-Vi
•O;.]
* A *
.1
H
s@&i
& *
fei- I
Vi
BmMmMIB
&
1 i v
11
■
.
S'
c - -o.
Ip
You, too, can hang your own wall-
papers! Write for our free booklet
on wallpapering. And also samples.
We’ll send them to you immedia-
tely. Write now!
Let the magic of Imported English wallpapers give beauty and colour to every
room In your home. Yon can make
WONDERWORK
WITH WALLPAPER!
It's not so expensive to decorate your home this easy way! Our free booklet on
wallpapering is so simple to follow it almost does the work for you. Wallpaper our
easy way, save money and effort, create beauty in your home.
—_
m
■ ■■■■:■■
II
i
V
-
m
m
%
m
m.
i
~|pv
Floral wallpaper with a
trellis pattern. Wonder-
ful in bedrooms. Priced
from only 7/- per roll.
B|wK3,f i; if *
- ' -V V:t |f<K §
. . s
■ ' ■' N , '•
-—Si
-•,■!. f... >
»* I
.... Vi
;rn
&
a.
Plastic finish wallpaper,
with soft pastel designs.
Priced from 16/- per roll.
m
i' i
mmm
m
U
a
aw i
m
m
K
m
WT
r?
,
- ...
ss
«*■*
wa;
W
m.
m
4?il
Textured Cream wall-
paper in attractive self col-
oured designs. Attractively
priced from 10/- per roll.
'>■)
ly
Floral wallpaper with a
coloured ground. For liv-
ing rooms. From 7/- roll.
Delicate floral pattern on
spotted ground. Priced
from only 7/- per roll.
Textured Cream wallpaper
with coloured or self-col-
oured grounds. Priced at
from only 10/- per roll.
•Ai
1 4 f . ' '
: , ■ ■;
i
-' / <t/A '' v "' < '
.. ;v •;;
■ ..„ ? Zm
afe
'■Tat '7P&.
* ' W&.
Florals in plastic finished
paper. Spotted grounds.
From only 16/- per roll.
Striped wallpaper, satin
finish. From 11/- roll.
Nursery wallpaper, keenly
priced from 11/- per roll.
N
V -A,»
Glacier paper, 18in. wide.
Priced at 2/6 per yard.
CITY CUSTOMERS, TAKE BLUE AND YELLOW BUSES TO ANTHONY HORDERNS', FARE 4d.
•'‘ ’ • •
. . ■ • ‘ ■
WALLPAPERS, THIRD FLOOR, ATOP ESCALATORS. BOX 2712, G.P.O. PHONE M 2401
'TRUTH if.’ At>V£3TlS;H(?'
- S 3


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 5, 1954
VoL 75—No. 3873
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G .P. 0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" AND COMMUNISM
If “Labor” has the Communist issue hung round its
neck it can blame Dr. Evatt, Mr. Calwell, Mr. Ward
and some of its industrial leaders, who have run true
to their habit of condemning anything the Government
does, with an aside on the contrast presented by
“Labor” efficiency and honesty. The theme of all has
been that “Labor” has abhorred Communism. Thus,
for instance, Mr. C. W. Anderson, N. S. Wales
secretary of the A.L.P.:
Australians who have been engaged in espionage
for Bussia should be dealt with with the utmost
rigor of the law. The Labor party is diametrically
opposed to the Communist party and has repeatedly
declared Communists and Communist fellow-travellers
as traitors to Australia... .
Despite this, history proves that one of the
quickest ways to get to the top in political “Labor” has
been to rise high in Communism and then desert. The
convert walks usually almost straight out of Com-
munism’s inner councils into “Labor’s” inner councils.
Garden, the founder of the Australian Communist
party as it exists, told the Comintern Conference in
Moscow in 1922 (according to the official report,
p. 231):-
We found that we were able to change the policy
of the Labor party....We changed the objective from
nationalisation to socialisation of industry by revolu-
tionary political and industrial action.
There was no doubt about the origin of the objec-
tive, as any student may judge for himself by a study
of Communist literature of dates before the conference.
There is no doubt about some of the people who
helped to push the objective through the 1921 Trade-
union Conference, and who resisted its modification
by the A.L.P. in that and the following year.
The name of Mr. Holloway appeared as chairman,
and he lauded “socialisation of industry as the culmina-
tion of the teachings of Marx.” Mr, A. C. Willis was
on the drafting-committee with Garden and Messrs.
Scullin and Curtin. His name was appearing contem-
poraneously in the lists of public subscriptions to
Communist-party funds, and he fought openly to have
the Communist party affiliated to the A.L.P. Twenty-
odd years later Mr. Holloway, a member of the
Federal Labor Cabinet, was heard saying that
philosophical discussion “could show that every aim
of the Communist movement throughout the world is
based on the teachings of Christ.”
Garden was the Australian Communist delegate
to Moscow for the Comintern Conference which made
the Australian party a section of that body, and which
secured its adherence to a charter signed by a man who
was later involved in the blowing-up of Sofia Cathedral,
with 123 men, women and children, in order to try to
kill one man —the country’s King. He remained
general-secretary and dominating factor in the N. S.
Wales Trades and Labor Council, chief industrial
body of the Labor party, for a decade. He remained
in that office even when, under the supervision of
Rubanov, a Russian agent who came from Moscow in
1926, he was building, and openly reporting on the
progress of, the Moscow-controlled Pan Pacific Trade
Union Secretariat body, with the Communist party
designing the A.C.T.U. as its Australian link.
Nobody Had any doubt about Garden’s affiliations,
even when he was supposed to be outside official Com-
munism. The Australian union delegates who went to
Moscow in 1933 reported in the Australian Red Press
that they were surprised to find when they visited
Losovsky, head of the Profintern (R.1.L.U.), that he still
regarded him as the head and front of the Communist
movement in Australia.
Early in the war Garden was openly up to his
neck in the anti-recruiting movement directed against
the A.1.F., his operations reported regularly, with
favorable comment, in the Australian Communist
Press. Yet Mr. Ward, when there were hundreds of
sober-minded, competent men of his party with vast
industrial experience available, and when, at the peak
of war-time industry, industrial knowledge and
efficiency were needed, chose Garden —his electorate
campaign-director; the founder of Australian Com-
munism—as liaison-officer to act between him and the
unions of Australia. When Garden was presently
arrested and on his way to a highly-deserved jail-
sentence the Commonwealth Police swore that they
found in a drawer in Garden’s table in Ward’s suite a
current membership-card in the Communist party.
A glimpse at the personalia of 1922-23, when the
Communist party in Australia took shape and estab-
lished its links with Moscow, gives an illuminating
picture of who actually did the establishing. There
was Mr. J. A. Beasley (who later denounced the
Communists hip-and-thigh) heading the Trades and
Labor Council, of which Garden was secretary. He
was thus head of the Australian section of the Red
International of Labor Unions (Profintern), controlled
and instructed from Moscow. He was in that ‘position
when Communist after Communist —Howie, Norman
Jeffrey—was sent to Moscow by the council.
There was Mr. R. Webster, Mr. E. J. Ward’s
right-hand henchman in East Sydney, next to
Garden, during World War 11, who was one of the
signatories to the first manifesto issued on December
20, 1920, by the Communist party. There was Mr.
R. J. Heffron, who was chief tutor in public speaking
to the Communist party,, and who is now Deputy-
Premier and Minister for Education in Mr. Cahill’s
Government, one of the party’s star debaters, who,
according to the “Workers’ Weekly” (7/11/’23), sent
a message to Moscow in celebration of the October
Revolution saying:
By supplanting: the capitalist dictatorship with
proletarian dictatorship, by meeting the force-of White
armies with the force of Bed armies, by combating
the White terror with the Bed terror, by scientifically
organising our forces along the lines of the Bed
Trade Union International, we will reach the goal of
our dreams on the road to which Bussia is the
greatest milestone passed.
There was Mr. H. L. Denford, who was first
secretary of the Communist party, and who became
chairman of Mr. McGirr’s Milk Board, At a later
stage there was Mr. J. A. Ferguson, who stepped out
of Communism almost directly into the presidency
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. in the years immediately after
World War 11, and who has taken over the Milk Board
chairmanship.
Another was Gordon Brown, who spoke at the
first meeting held to form a Communist party in
Adelaide, and who became “Labor” President of
the Senate under Messrs. Curtin and Chifley and
Evatt. Mr. D. Lovegrove, head of the Vic-
torian Trades Hall, was a Communist —he gave
evidence before the Royal Commission in Melbourne
in 1949 that when he left the party for “Labor” his
erstwhile comrades lured him into an office and beat
him up. And there was Dr. Lloyd Ross, who one
year during the war (1940) was —he had been for years
—an active member of the Central Committee of the
Communist party and the next year was a member of
the A.L.P. Annual Conference and Mr. Dedman’s
Chief Public Relations Officer and Director of Post-war
Reconstruction to the Curtin-Chifley Government.
There are dozens more instances of the same
sort which, if there were space, could be quoted to
mark the fact that Communist-party training seems the
ideal training for a man who wishes to rise to the
top in “Labor.”
In the days when these “Labor” stalwarts did
support Communism, it was not a milk-and-water
version. It exacted pledges from members to back
the Soviet Union in war and to fight against Australian
defence measures. One manifesto circulated in huge
numbers said the party planned to “expel all Governors
and other representatives of British finance capital,
withdraw from the British Empire and establish in
Australia a workers’ and farmers’ republic with a Soviet
form of government led by the workers —the dictator-
ship of the proletariat.”
Dr. Evatt has of late professed a considerable
dislike of Communists, though his use of specifically
unfriendly expressions towards them has also been
recent. And if he is a misunderstood man he has only
himself to blame. No doubt his contacts with Com-
munists have been as much a concession to liberalism
of thought as were his appearances before the High
Court as a champion of Communist-party viewpoint
on the legality of the Communist Party Dissolution
Bill.
At the same time it has been scarcely discreet on
the part of a man who was forced to pass an Act to
protect the Rocket Range secrets from being sent to
Russia to say that it would “tend to introduce
Fascism and destroy democracy” if the Government
were to bring down a measure to ban the Communist
party, which he described in the same spirited statement
as “pursuing a political and international objective in
attacking the Range” for the sole purpose of “defeating
the Australian defence-policy in the interests of a
foreign Power.”
While Dr. Evatt could not, of course, prevent the
Communist party from* approving almost all his
measures until recent times, or Mr. Garden from
claiming that he was responsible for his entry into
politics, or the Communist party’s association of itself
with his Fourteen-Points campaign of 1944, this loving
kindness towards him should dictate wariness.
It should dictate, for instance, that he should
not have personal associations likely to lead to mis-
understanding and embarrassment. It should have
dictated that he should not have allowed himself to
be involved, through the choice of a secretary, in
incidents like the Blain incident. It was alleged, and
the letter produced in the House and its text never
questioned, that Mr. Dalziel, Dr. Evatt s secretary, as
honorary secretary of a body called the Legion of
Christian Youth, which had “fellow-traveller” associa-
tions, had written to Mr. Blain, M.P., that “it is to
Russia that the people look for a practical example
of what can be accomplished in a system differing
from ours. What better way could the Government
show their sincerity than to implement social legisla-
tion now, using Russian principles as a basis?” Mr.
Dalziel’s views need not have been those of his
employer, but it certainly opened the way to misunder-
standing for the Labor Government and Dr. Evatt
to allow Mr. Dalziel, immediately after this charge
was made, to go abroad as an Australian delegate to
the Human Rights Congress.
For Dr. Evatt to make the remarks he did* about
the treasonable nature of Communist intentions when
dealing with the Rocket Range defence in 1949
scarcely squares with his vigorous defence of Com-
munist rights to freedom of action in 1950, and his
charge in the House (“Hansard,” July, 1951) that the
Prime Minister was using Communism as a “bogy.”
The resolution of the Federal A.L.P. Conference that
“no Communist auxiliary or subsidiary can be asso-
ciated with the Labor party and no Labor-party branch
or member can co-operate with the Communist party 1
scarcely squares with the existence of a joint Labor-
Communist committee in Sydney to further Dr.
Evatt’s 1944 Fourteen-points campaign.
Finally, if “Labor” does not want Communism
to be an issue in the political campaign its leaders
should not chide the Government, as Mr. Calwell
has done, for its having issued passports
to variods delegates to Communist peace con-
ferences in Peking—implementing Dr. Evatt’s
own view that the Communists and their
supporters should have full freedom of action unless
they can be charged in the courts. It lays itself open
immediately to the telling riposte that one of the
delegates was Dr. Burton, whom Dr. Evatt appointed
head of the External Affairs Department over the
heads of the Civil Service, and that another was Mr.
Thornton, Communist head of the Ironworkers, whose
expenses the Federal Labor Government paid to the
World Conference of Trades Unions shortly after
the war and following a most curious Trades- and
Labor Council election.
“Labor,” in fact, should have been the very last
to want to raise the Communist issue at this time.
From Wells to Cahill
“D. Empson” : Some of us old fogies who get together
occasionally and discuss the past have to laugh at
ourselves when we recall certain hopes and beliefs
with which we entered the 20th century, and which have
gone the way of the knowalls who implanted them in
our minds, chiefly Blatchford, Wells and Shaw.
All these worthies, in their zeal for extending the
power of the State, were especially keen on its acquiring
a monopoly of transport. They were positive that
this would minister to the peepul’s welfare in every
possible way; for one thing, enormous profits would
accrue, and the enormous profits could be expended
in helping to make the peepul “enlightened and self-
reliant,” and establishing “the Right to Work.”
It neyer occurred to any of these seers, or to any
of us, that the march of invention might bring transport
improvements which would be very expensive, and
would need to be provided for. To them and their
disciples, the most ardent of whom were Australian
“Labor” politicians and would-be politicians, who
could spout Blatchford and Weils by the yard, the
horse-drawn bus, the cable-tram and the steam-train
were things fixed and immutable.
The profits did not arrive, but mechanical changes
or revolutions did. Where “Labor” ruled the roost
they were very slow in coming, for it was conceded
that the horse-steerers and -stablers had the Right to
Work in the jobs familiar to them, and it was found
difficult to fit them into replacement programmes.
When these at length materialised the cost was
prodigious, and it was all added to State debts. Indeed,
the financial position everywhere went from bad to
putrid. In the long run it has become so ghastly that
any mainland transport department reporting a loss
on its latest year’s operations of a little less than a
million, and that without reckoning past deficits in their
bearing on interest, would be regarded as a freak.
But chronic insolvency is not the worst feature
of the system for those who have to make use of the
service provided, such as it is—workers who can t
afford cars or ride to and from the job on bicycles;
women and children ; the sick and the old. It has bred
not only a new conservatism of which the Socialistic
wiseacres never dreamed but new forms of tyranny,
new lots of tyrants: officials who delight in being nasty
to members of the travelling public (officials swarm),
and work-stoppers in trade-unions, who do their stuff
in contempt of their “Labor” Governments and arbitra-
tion tribunals as well as passengers.
Of the activities of these hold-up gangs Melbourne
and part of Sydney have recently had bitter experience.
In the Sydney case a union mob that went on “regula-
tion” strike contrived to keep its caravans going beyond
fixed hours, this while cruelly leaving thousands of
helpless people at bus-stops in the course of the
strike, and thus qualified for overtime pay, which their
“Labor” Government cravenly allowed. Its “Labor’
Government was in the process of taking the Right to
Work from objectors to unionism, even where the only
unions objectors can join are financial supporters of
the “Labor” Government or are directed from Moscow.
In much the same spirit, this “Labor” Govern-
ment refuses to let motorists buy petrol after sundown
(perhaps because their cars constitute the only check
on the tyranny of the work-stoppers), charges mothers
for carrying their prams in Government trams, and
exacts sixpence a visit from anyone longing to see a
loved one in the Government hospital adjoining me
scene of its legislative repudiation of the Right to
Work. No money, no admittance.
Yes, we old boys have to laugh at our artless
acceptance of those glowing Wellsian and Shavian
assurances as to the marvels that would be wrought
under monopoly of transport by the State. But the
is bitterness in the laughter.


THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unity Needed
On the eve of the opening of the election
campaign it would be difficult to realise
in Australia that the world is passing
through the darkest and most lowering
international storm that has threatened it
since the close of the war.
Russia is still armed. The hydrogen-
bomb still exists. The Geneva Confer-
ence is obviously going to fail, as every
sensible man knew it must fail. From it
the participants must return home a little
more sore, a little more frustrated, a
little bit more bad-tempered with each
other, except for the British Common-
wealth, and especially its heart in Eng-
land, where resides, as ever, the genius
for being equable and unprovocative in
crises and for showing an infinite patience.
There will be no settlement of the Korean
affair, no compromise with Red China,
no accommodation about Europe with
Russia, which would never be satisfied
until the red flag flew right across the
Continent to Lisbon and north to John
O’ Groats.
In Asia at the weekend gallant Dien-
bienphu was assailed in its last ditches;
and the May Day celebrations in Moscow
had a sinister and snarling note com-
pletely belying the specious call for peace
which echoed above the roar of the mar-
tial parades.
In Colombo the Premiers of India,
Pakistan, Ceylon and Burma and Indo-
China, who can’t manage their own affairs
and who have to go about under
armed guard, passed resolutions for a
settlement of the Indo-China question
which involved retreat of the French
completely out of Asia and the inferential
handing-over of South-East Asia to a
body of Governments which would be in
the hands of the U.S.S.R. and China in
ten minutes if they were left to protect
themselves.
The Premiers urged a seat for Red
China in U.N.O. “to promote stability
in Asia and ease world tension.” This
and resolutions by Indonesia and Burma
to “unshakeably resist Communism,”
while pushing the only, people who can
resist it out of the rice-area, which is
the key to domination or survival of the
peoples of South-East Asia, are just hot-
air.
The worst feature of the situation is
the apparent inability of the Pacific
Western Powers to agree on a straight
line of action likely to impress Russia
and China. After 1945 it seemed certain
that Russia was moving southwards in
Asia. The advance could have been
stopped dead with firmness and without
violence then, but Manchuria, China,
North Korea, Saghalien, Vietminh were
all allowed to be engulfed, and Indonesia
and Burma conditioned for later sub-
jection through cold- or hot-war. The
British Commonwealth and the United
States cannot agree on the question of
military intervention in Indo-China. But
they could agree on the major issue of
setting a line beyond which Communist
aggression must not go. Russia, playing
a cunning game, seeks to pretend that
she is leaving the Asian field to China,
but this is not true. The voice of Malenkov
moves the hand of Mao —yet a while, at
any rate.
The whole situation might benefit by
a little less consorting with, and argu-
ment in public with, the enemy. The
position calls for a little quiet, old-
fashioned private negotiation between the
Governments of the Commonwealth and
the United States somewhere where irre-
sponsible busybodies cannot get at what
is going on until a policy is formulated
for general legislative approval. Nothing
is doing more to promote a world war
than the exhibition of differences among
themselves by nations of the English-
speaking races.
Petrov Commission
The 50-odd members of the Russian
Embassy—sailing ironically as the only
passengers on a ship called the New
Australia—were less happy to leave this
country than the small Australian staff of
the Moscow Embassy were to leave
Russia.
It seems that Russia has been giving us
very good measure in personnel—about
10 Russians for every Australian in
Moscow, and very senior Russians some
of them at that. Various inquisitive
members of the Federal House have for
long been trying to discover what some
of this young Red Army has been doing
here. A lot of it rarely seemed to see
the outside air, but it was obviously not
here to twiddle its thumbs.
The mystery should be partly solved
in the next few weeks when the Royal
Commission gets to work on the Petrov
papers. It is a pity the commission was
not appointed without the Victorian
Bench becoming meticulous in the “Ice-
berg” Irvine fashion, especially since
it did not seem to have any qualms about
agreeing to Mr. Justice Lowe sitting as
a commissioner in the Darwin Bombing
Commission and the Royal Commission
on Communism in 1949. The 1949 hear-
ing was just as likely to be productive
of criminal prosecutions as the present one
—and as likely as the Petrov inquiry to
produce indictments on which the Vic-
torian Bench might have been called to
act.
However, a very good Bench of Judges
has been assembled, and among them they
share the kind of judicial and human
qualities and aptitude needed for the
difficult work in hand.
Mr. Justice Owen became a judge
young, and he has universal respect in
every section of Bench and Bar. He is,
in fact, very much to the Supreme Court
Bench what Sir Garfield Barwick is to the
Bar. And he is as keen and self-contained
a fisherman when after evidence as he
used to be when after fish with Vian of
the Cossack in the days when the old
H.M.A.S. Australia was still afloat.
Mr. Justice Philp, of Queensland, is a
son of one of The Bulletin’s old sub-
editors, that “fine, fat fodgil wight” Jim
Philp, who wrote some fine swinging
verse and transmitted his equable sense
of humor to his son. The son fought with
the 12th Field Artillery Brigade in World
War I and came home gassed. He went
to the Bench via the Justice Department
and a sound all-round practice.
Mr. Justice Ligertwood did a good job
with the Gordon Bennett Inquiry and the
New Guinea Timber Commission.
The crucial part of the personnel of the
commission is completed with Mr.
W. J. V. Windeyer, Q.C., and Mr. Pape, a
Victorian Counsel. Mr. Windeyer in the
last war was a distinguished soldier who
commanded the classic landings at Lae
and Finschhafen with determination,
carrying through the latter operation
under the most difficult and dangerous
conditions with calm and cheerfulness in
the face of unexpectedly superior odds.
He can be looked to to uphold the dignity
of the Australian Bars in an investigation
which will have the interest, and be sub-
ject to thg* criticism, of the whole legal
world of the globe.
Despite Press suggestions that Petrov
handed over a great mass of documents,
it is probably safe to say that there is less
material than popularly supposed and that
it may be dealt with more expeditiously
than had been generally expected.
Cain Follows a Bad Example
“Labor’s” policy of changing the whole
character of local government so that it
becomes a mere extension of the party’s
political machine has almost reached
fruition in New South Wales, thanks to
the Cahill Plan, which-has been forced
upon the ratepayers step by step over the
past seven years. Its success —from a
Trades Hall viewpoint—seems to have
emboldened the Cain Government to
make the first moves towards giving Vic-
toria the same blessings. To this end a
bill for the abolition of plural voting in
municipal elections is now before the
Victorian Parliament.
It is very easy for “Labor” to make the
term “plural voting” sound like a hang-
over from the feudal past, but the charge
lacks logic. At the Parliamentary level
the principle of one-man-one-vote is
nowadays accepted almost universally,
but that is no justification for applying it
to local government. In the Federal and
State field it can be argued that every
voter, no matter how small his income,
contributes in some degree towards the
cost of government; if not directly
through income tax, then indirectly
through sales tax. Customs- and excise-
duties and so on.
No such justification exists for univer-
sal suffrage in municipal elections —and
Victorian “Labor” members admit that
that is the next step after the present
“reform” —as all the revenue raised by
the councils comes from the rates levied
on property-owners; no one else pays a
bean.
In Sydney, just before the City Council
election last December the managing-
director of David Jones, Ltd., pointed
out that his firm paid in municipal rates
on its five city properties £53,250 yet
was entitled to only one vote, the same
as a lodger with no stake at all in the
city.
To the “Labor”-Socialists this may seem
the epitome of democracy, but it cer-
tainly doesn’t make commonsense. In
their War of Independence the American
colonists raised the cry “No taxation
without representation.” In Sydney today
“Labor’s” slogan could well be “Repre-
sentation without taxation,” as the non-
ratepayers outnumber the ratepayers.
The majority thus has the right to choose
the men who are to have the spending
of the money collected from the minority.
As an example of power without responsi-
bility it could hardly be bettered.
It hasn’t come to that in Melbourne yet,
but the current legislation is the first
step towards it.
A Letter From a Premier
There is no compulsory unionism in
Victoria, although many union secretaries
look enviously at their colleagues north of
the Murray and mumble that it is only
a matter of time before they persuade
their Parliamentary puppets to follow yet
another Cahill example.
Meantime, they make-do with what
help they can get from Mr. Cain and his
Ministers, who, apparently, are never
too busy with the more humdrum affairs
of State to take time off for such
eminently dignified tasks as soliciting
new members for unions.
Mr Cain doesn’t exactly stand on
street-comers handing out leaflets,
though that may come later. For the
present he appears to restrict his talents
in that statesmanlike line to tactics as
exemplified in an item in the “Education
Gazette and Teachers’ Aid,” issued by the
Victorian Education Department. Under
the heading “School Cleaners: Joining of
Union” appears a request from Minister
for Education Shepherd asking head-
teachers “to bring the following letter
from the Premier to the notice of their
school-cleaners”:
I desire to advise you that the Gov-
ernment would be glad if school-cleaners
were advised that it is considered in their
best interests that they should join the
appropriate union, which in their case is
the Federated Miscellaneous 'Workers’
Union of Australia (Victorian Branch),
Box 72, Boom 26, Trades'Hall, Melbourne.
Then follows a paragraph on the value
of the work done by the union and the
signature, “John Cain, Premier”!
Schoolteachers are by regulation rightly
forbidden to make any political com-
ment in the course of their duty at school,
and it is no part of a teacher’s duties to
tout for members of a union. Evidently
Premier Cain doesn’t think that sort of
touting below his office.
Let's Honor the Australia
“Ek Dum”: The Coral Sea battle was not
quite the battle of legend. It did not prevent
an imminent invasion of Australia. The
Japanese could have got a foothold in January
or February if they had wanted to without the
slightest trouble; their objective seems to have
been to deny it to the Americans as a base.
And the result of the battle did not prevent
the Japanese from making further powerful
advances southward.
At the same time the battle, part of a very
large and continuing operation, has a historic
role. It was the first large naval battle in the
environs of Australia. It was the first aircraft-
carrier battle on any large scale in history. It
had a part in determining the final outcome
of the first phase of the Pacific war (closed
at Midway the following month) by whittling-
down the Japanese naval force, this though the
American losses were heavier than the Japanese
—they lost the carrier Lexington (33,000 tons)
and Neosho (oiler) with 2400 men, and the
destroyer Sims, against the Japanese loss of
the light carrier Shoho, a destroyer and three
minesweepers and damage to two light carriers.
The fight prevented the Japanese getting a
brigade group into Moresby and having tem-
porary control of Moresby and the Milne Bay
area and Torres Strait. And it gave a vast
lift to Australian spirits, which had been sagging
under the alarmism of the Government and
some sections of the Press whose noisy pessi-
mism blanketed the sound opinions of military
leaders.
The operation of which the Coral Sea battle
was a fraction went on from May 1-11 in the
South-West Pacific area. The great carrier-
battle of May 8 , 600-700 miles off Cooktown,
ranged on in various phases which did not
prevent the enemy making his greatest concen-
tration of strength up to that time by the
beginning of June far to the north-east, to
take Midway as a preliminary to an invasion
of Hawaii. The width of the engagement may
be measured from the fact that in the first
phase aircraft from the Australian coast, and
in the last—the spacially gigantic battle near
Midway—aircraft from Hawaii took part.
The names which are permanently linked
with this operation are those of Admiral Nimitz,
who played by far the most massive—though
almost least-advertised —part in the defeat of
Japan, and Admiral Halsey, whom Australians
are delighted to honor, along with the U.S.
carrier Tarawa and her escort O’Bannion, in
the current celebrations, and whose sweeps in
the Philippine-invasion period and the later
interregnum before the atom-bomb fell reduced
Japanese naval strength to a shoestring.
In the intimacy of the few thousand miles of
the Pacific Ocean off Australia’s shores in which
the Coral Sea engagement was fought the
honored ones were Admiral Frank Fletcher,
U.S.N., and Rear-Admiral J. C. Grace, R.N.,
who commanded with dash and distinction the
Australian squadron headed by H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia and Hobart, which joined in the inter-
ception of the enemy convoy and the raid
on Tulagi.
Amid the celebration nobody seems to have
thought of a solemn national ceremony to
mark the part of H.M.A.S. Australia, now in
her home-base of Sydney going through the
final period of her last commission, the leader
of the Australian squadron in the Coral Sea
operations, the heavy spearhead of the Aus-
tralian forces, sea-battered, shell-battered,
gallant and spattered with the blood of captains
from Dakar to Lingayen —Captain Dechain-
eux was killed, Admiral Collins wounded in
her.
There should be some national good-bye to
her, some permanent memorial to her a® the
senior representative surviving of World War
IFs grandest little naval force of any nation,
and the furthest ranging, which makes this
country’s name a proud thing to hear wherever
fighting seamen gather.
Fewer Telegrams
The telegraph side of postal business is
declining. The P.M.G.’s department in
its annual report has admitted that the
number of messages for the year fell by
3.6 million, or nearly 17 per cent. It
attributed this solely to the competitive
effects of improved air-mail services, and
greater use of trunk-lines by the business
community.
Until the rates went up to the sky this
was a telegram-minded community, and
the habit still sticks, but is waning.
Assessments of the Joint Committee of
Public Accounts shed some light on the
subject. One disclosure is that telegraph-
users carry the cost of £1,250,000-worth
of meteorological telegrams every year
for which the Department of the Interior
refuses to pay. Another is that the tele-
graph branch, which showed a surplus of
6 per cent, in pre-war years, now shows a
14 per cent, deficit.
The department claims that operating
expenses have increased by 216 per cent,
per telegram.
The committee ascertained that in
Sydney in March this year only 53 per
cent, of the total traffic-load was dis-
patched with the “permissible time-lag”
(usually 15 minutes on major routes), and
expressed its surprise that delay in hand-
ling telegrams was so great, and that the
position had not improved more rapidly,
despite increasing use of machines. Yet,
in addition to the falling-off in the
volume of telegrams, there has also been
a considerable decline in the number of
words per telegram. Since June, 1940,
the base rate for an ordinary telegram has
risen from 9d. (14 words) to 2s. 3d. (12
words), an increase of about 250 per
cent.
The steep rise in charges alone should
be an adequate reason for the shrinking
business, but the committee also pro-
vides an informative table of some tests
made last January (not a busy telegraph
month) of the time-lag in meteorological
telegrams, from lodgment to transmis-
sion by teleprinter to the addressee. In
N.S.W. the time was half an hour for
urgent messages (no time was shown for
ordinary ones). In Victoria it was 28
minutes for urgent and 36 for ordinary,
and in South Australia there were the
extraordinary figures of 27 minutes for
urgent and 25 for ordinary.
What users without a teleprinter or any
Government priority would like to know
is how long an ordinary telegram takes
from lodging in, say, Melbourne, to de-
livery in, say, Sydney, and what improve-
ment on that poor service is secured by
paying the hefty double-charge for urgent
messages. Perhaps if the department took
the trouble to get an average figure for
this or some other busy line it would
realise why the service is increasingly
and exasperatingly unpopular.
Commonwealthed Ceylon
“C.S.” (at Colombo): To an Australian
born in independence it is strange to see
the Sinhalese fondling it like a child with
a new toy, not sure how it works, eager
to make it work, fearful of damaging it,
and harried all the time by other members
of the family.
The younger, better-educated Sinhalese
regard it as a great prize; older people
in the same class seem to be dubious and
a little scared. One of these latter deplored
what he regarded as an insuperable diffi-
culty in making all races in Ceylon sub-
ject to laws passed by a Sinhalese Parlia-
ment and making them like it.
The Tamils, who do most of the labor-
ing work in Colombo, distrust the new
authority of the Sinhalese; there is quite
plainly a rift between Sinhalese and
Indians; the villages packed in their
hamlets lining the roads towards such
places as Negombo, 20-odd miles away,
(i Continued on next page )


want to be left alone ; there is a Com-
munist element going for its life; and
there is a strong element who wish
Ceylon had remained a British colony.
It seems that a vast and frightening
task confronts those sincere Sinhalese who
wish to make their island a self-governing
unit of the British Commonwealth.
Over 8,000,000 people of varying races
and religions, a vast proportion of them
living in the direst poverty and ignor-
ance, are crammed in this “green island,”
and the begging and touting, together
with the polite robbery of the innocent
stranger, have to be seen to be believed.
Somehow, some way, the Sinhalese have
to tackle the begging and touting—how
big a job that will be can be assessed from
the fact that children are trained in both
as soon as they can walk.
This writer’s impression is that if the
Sinhalese are not yet ready for self-gov-
ernment they’re determined to give it a
go.
POLITICAL POINTS
Burning question: Dops Dr. Evatt in-
tend to appear on behalLof the Comrades
at the Petrov Royal Commission? On
the grounds which he stated for his
appearance for them in the High Court
attack on the Anti-Red Bill he would
seem to be morally bound to serve them
if asked.
9 9
If the P.M.’s itinerary is any guide the
Government does not intend to stand on
the defensive, but is making a bid at
“Labor’s” marginal seats. In addition
to his capital-city meetings and visits to
narrowly-held Government electorates,
Menzies will also speak in Ballarat,
Fawkner, Flinders and Wannon (Vic.);
Barton, Kingsford-Smith and Parkes
(N.S.W.); and Kingston (S.A.).
9 9
In selecting May 6 for the date of his
policy-speech Dr. Evatt knew he would
be having one advantage over Menzies
in that he would have two days in which
to make last-minute amendments after
hearing what the P.M. had to offer.
That’s why people are wondering why
he jumped the gun and disclosed two of
his vote-catchers several days before
the Government policy was announced.
One thing is certain —it was no mere
chivalrous gesture.
9 9
As far as abolition of the means-test
is concerned there is no cause for sur-
prise ; Evatt himself foreshadowed it in
the Budget debate last year. There has
been sharp division of opinion in the
party on this subject and an early
announcement would close the ranks
before the campaign started. Further,
there were active pressure-groups chal-
lenging the Doc. for an outright yes or
no and, finally, the almost certain know-
ledge that Menzies would repeat that
the Government’s policy was to pro-
gressively ease the means-test. By getting
in early with a promise of abolition
Evatt could make this seem an anti-
climax.
The Doc.’s other autumn offering—4o
p.c. depreciation allowance —is somewhat
different. Not a mass-vote catcher, its
appeal is primarily to industrialists. It
seems just the thing that should have
been saved for to-morrow night. That
it wasn’t suggests that Evatt had had a
whisper about Menzies’s intention in this
regard and was afraid his own proposal
might provide the anticlimax if kept till
Thursday.
9 9
In Moscow half the Diplomatic Corps
gathered at the railway-station to bid
farewell to Brian Hill and his staff. At
Canberra airport Mr. Generalov and
his team had scarcely a soul to see them
off. It could be that the Russian air
induces courtesy. Or that Russian diplo-
mats don’t.
9 9
Two members of the Democratic-party
team which contested the Queensland
Senate election last year are standing
for the Reps, on May 29. Sir Raphael
Cilento is opposing Treasurer Fadden in
McPherson and C. W. Russell, who repre-
sented Maranoa from 1949-51, but lost
the nomination and subsequently the
seat when he resigned from the Country-
party over a disagreement on policy, is
giving it another try. Both men are
standing as Independents.
9 9
Queensland’s Smutty Literature Act
•>ets up a board to censor doubtful publi-
cations, but Victoria places the onus on
distributors, who are to be registered and
licensed. The penalty is savage—loss of
licence for a second offence. This means
that a distributor can be put right out of
business for selling two “obscene” books,
merely because his definition of obscene
wasn’t quite as strict as the magistrate’s.
® o
An alleged flying-saucer stopped the
6 a.m. Geelong-Ararat goods-train re-
cently when it suddenly appeared, a
dark-purple object halting, diving and
banking at the usual incredible speed
400 ft. up. The driver and fireman of the
“goods,” who slowed the train down to
observe it and who swear they hadn’t had
a drink, are quite sure it was a flying-
saucer. Meanwhile, up on Mars, a saucer
pilot is trying to convince his public that
he had seen a ghost train.
9 9
Although the Cain Government can be
criticised for seeking salary-rises for
M.P.s at a time when the general level
.of wages in industry has been more-or-
less frozen by the Arbitration Court, its
method of dealing with the subject at
least is correct, A tribunal of three men
outside Parliament and politics is to go
into the whole question of Parliamentary
and Ministerial salaries and allowances.
This was the method adopted by the
Federal Government, though the Nicholas
report was not adopted in its entirety.
The Sydney Government, on the other
hand, made it own award.
9 9
Probably just coincidence, but Perth’s
prolonged summer ended abruptly and
the city had its coldest April night for 40
years on the eve of the arrival of the
Russian dips from Canberra.
9 9
In 1953 Australia lost by industrial dis-
putes only 17 man-days out of every
10,000, which is an impressive improve-
ment over the record when “Labor” was
in office. Menzies, in his last “Man-to-
THE BOGY
Dr. Evatt: Without the Communist bogy the Government would have no disguise
Mr. McMahon: Does the right honorable gentleman believe that Communism is a
bogy?
Dr. Evatt: I say that the Prime Minister is using Communism as a bogy to deceive
the people. — “Hansard,” July 10, 1951.
man” broadcast before the election,
pointed out that this loss was the equiva-
lent of every wage- and salary-earner
being absent from work for less than
two-fifths of one working day, which was
less than half the time lost on public
holidays. His explanation of causes in-
cluded the secret ballot (opposed by
Evatt and Co.), the increasing opposition
of the “greatest trade-union leaders” to
direct action, and the arming of the Arbi-
tration Court with power to issue injunc-
tions and punish people for disobedience,
• •
Hundreds of amateur prospectors are
combing Victoria’s hills for uranium and
Melbourne shops have sold over 900
geiger-counters since Minister for Mines
Fraser announced that the metal had
been found on an old abandoned gold-
field 30 miles from Bendigo. Dr. Thomas,
chief geologist, is off to the N.T, to com-
pare Victoria’s prospects with Rum
Jungle.
9 9
The police guard placed near the Soviet
Embassy in Canberra to prevent “inci-
dents” also served another useful purpose.
As the police sat in their car one night
they noticed a man peering in at
the windows of a near-by block of flats.
They picked him up, listened to his story
that he was looking for a friend, and
then placed him in the car to share the
vigil until they were relieved and could
escort him to the police-station.
9 9
Melbourne Tramways Board, whose
members at present serve on a part-time
basis, will be replaced by a full-time com-
mission of three if Cain’s Tramways Bill
survives the Legislative Council. If the
two Hollway Libs follow the lead of
their Assembly colleagues, it won’t.
9 9
R. S. Leydin, Government Secretary
in Darwin and star actor in the Mrs.
Petrov drama, has been appointed Admin-
istrator of Nauru. Moscow will pro-
bably be trying to work out whether this
is a reward or a banishment. Actually
the decision was made weeks ago, but
the announcement had to wait on the
approval of Britain and New Zealand,
co-trustees with Australia in Nauru.
9 9
What has happened to British enter-
prise? Latest Snowy Mountains contract
went to a French company against com-
petition from U.S., Scandinavia, Ger-
many and Australia. No British firm
tendered. A few weeks ago a huge con-
tract went to American interests without
British opposition.
9 9
Khokhlov, the M.V.D. man who did a
Petrov in West Germany, has appealed
to the Pope and President Eisenhower to
save his wife, whom he left behind in
Moscow. It is to be hoped that they
are able to do so, but the job hasn’t been
made any easier by Khokhlov’s admis-
sion that it was on her urging that he
gave himself up to the Americans.
• •
Barry, Vic. Minister for Health, flung
accusations of rackets, crookedness and
rake-offs at named members of Mel-
bourne City Council while the Local
Government bill was being debated in the
Victorian Assembly. Next day, in the
face of Opposition threats to move an
adjournment and demand a royal com-
mission into the allegations. Cabinet,
according to reports, asked Barry to
apologise or resign. When the House met
again Barry withdrew his charges, but
said he believed “certain practices in the
council were improper.”
• •
“Mugga Way”: The Soviet Govern-
ment in its breaking-off Note said “the
Australian authorities had started a
general slander campaign against the
Soviet Embassy in Australia.” The Petrov
documents were “forgeries concocted on
orders from persons interested in worsen-
ing Soviet-Australian relations,” and the
same “authorities” organised the “kid-
napping” of Mrs. Petrov, who wanted to
leave for the Soviet Union. All this rub-
bish could hide neither the Russian appre-
hensions at the forthcoming disclosures
nor the determination to get everyone out
of the country, including one suspect
correspondent who was not covered by
diplomatic immunity, before the royal
commission could begin. The smashed
radio-transmitter in the Molonglo, the
smoke-signals from the bonfires in the
Embassy’s badminton court were admis-
sions that whatever sinister successes had
been scored in the past the mission had
now failed. The frightened snarling from
the Kremlin will not disturb the Austra-
lian “authorities,” and it won’t give any
comfort to those conscious of guilty asso-
ciations with a regime at once ruthless and
incredibly stupid.
9 9
There’s not much likelihood of insom
niacs running out of sheep to count.
some wideawake fellows in the U.S
Department of Agriculture have been
tallying up the world’s flocks and make
the total 841 million, an increase of 17
per cent, on the average for the five years
1946-50.
9 •
Russia, after boycotting the 1.L.0. for
many years, has applied for admission to
membership. Albert Monk, the 1.L.0.’s
most consistent delegate, says that Russia
is to be commended if she is sincerely
joining the organisation, but if she intends
to use it as a vehicle of Communist
propaganda “it will militate against the
magnificent work being done.” What
magnificent work?
9 9.
Syria suggested to the Trusteeship
Council that visiting U.N. missions should
be allowed to seek out public opinion in
trust territories. This mischievous sug-
gestion was strongly opposed by the Aus-
tralian delegate, forthright and dogged
W. D. Forsyth, who was supported by
reps, of Britain, America and France. In
the past some of the U.N. delegates have
fallen over backwards trying to discover
points for criticism in our administration
of New Guinea and Nauru, but they’ve
impressed only the Soviet bloc, which is
not noted for its lack of bias. Perhaps,
on reflection, it might be an idea to allow
certain U.N. delegates to act as public-
opinion pollsters in some of the uncon-
trolled N.G. areas. They probably
wouldn’t upset the Administration —
although they might cause a certain
amount of indigestion.
9 9
“Aitape”: There are many good rea-
sons for the aerial survey to be made in
the week beginning May 18 of thousands
of square miles of unadministered coun-
try in Papua-New Guinea near the Dutch
border. The area to be surveyed by Civil
Aviation and the district services extends
west from Wabag to the Sepik slopes, and
from Tari to the Strickland Gorge, and on
to the border. It is known that some of
the towering mountains in that wild area
are higher than shown on the maps, and
the survey will mean changes in existing
maps. One of the purposes will be selec-
tion of sites for airstrips—especially be-
tween the Fly delta and the border. When
the flying part of the job is over prepara-
tions will begin for the tough work on
foot which must follow.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T HAD never taken much notice of the
-*■ saying that St. Kilda is a Jewish
suburb until a friend of mine became en-
rolled as a voter. The Commonwealth
division is Isaacs, the State subdivision
Monash, and the card was signed by a
Mr. Moses. That’s fair enough.—
“Bubastes.”
❖ ❖ *
“H.W.M.”: Regarding King O’Malley’s
estate, valued at approximately £70,000,
the Commonwealth Bank naturally figures
prominently in his will. As everyone
knows, “the King” met with much oppo-
sition when he first proposed the Bank.
He told me how he eventually
secured sufficient support for its founda-
tion. He said many Labor members had
borrowed money from him, and he held
their promissory notes, payable on
demand. Some of these debtors were
opposed to his scheme, but he brought
them all up to scratch by threatening to
, demand immediate payment. So that’s
how we got our bank.
*l* »*♦ ♦>
“Zake”: Sydney’s Circular Quay,
shortly after the Anzac Day march. As
the crowd which had drifted down from
Macquarie-street were waiting for a tram
quite a number of policemen came from
their near-by station. Two of them, de-
tached from the rest, and deep in talk,
were walking along the tramlines when
a fully-laden taxi-driver dropped his
pace to suit theirs, and as he got up
alongside the pair put his head out the
window and said, in a warning whisper
that could be heard 100yds. away, “Ssst,
you blokes. You want to watch out you
don’t get a blue —there’s a bunch of cops
over there!”
❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Does Australia possess any
tattooing artists nowadays? Melbourne
used to have some, and I remember the
old Eastern Market was one of the places
where they practised their art. Most-
tattooed man I ever came across was a
tent-mate at Broadmeadows (Vic.) early
in World War I. “Yank” had come to
Australia with the Bud Atkinson buck-
jumping show, and had been on exhibit
at the San Francisco Exhibtion. There
was not an inch of his body undecorated,
except the top of his head. Most of the.
designs were appropriate to the part of
the body on which they appeared. He
even had “socks”, tattooed on his legs.
The ingenuity of the artist and the pain
suffered by the patient must have been
great. We were on six-bob a day then,
and when Yank’s funds ran low the rest
of us would leave the tent so that he
could put on his full show and raise a
few bob. It was a show, in its entirety,
strictly for gentlemen only.
*X* ❖ ❖
“X.M.N.”: Science is moving-in on
the wharfie. He’s to be analysed, observed
and studied. The University of California
is setting up a course in cargo-handling.
They’re going to study time-space-energy
utilisation. Someone has suggested that
the course should carry a degree of ship-
handling—B.A.S.H.—with an M.Stev. for
one majoring in stevedoring. Time
marches on.
♦*+
“Ariadne”: Attempts by police to
establish the identity of the skeleton of
a woman, believed to have been mur-
dered on the bank of King Parrot Creek
near Broadford (Vic.), by issuing photo-
graphs and descriptions of the lower den-
ture to dentists throughout Victoria have
evoked comparisons with procedure fol-
lowing the finding of the body of the
“Pyjama Girl” —later identified as Mrs.
“Have you had an accident?”
Linda Agostini—at Albury, in 1930.
During the “Pyjama Girl” investigations
charts of the dead girl’s teeth were issued
to all Australian dentists and published
in the “Dental Review and Oral Topic,”
a magazine read by dentists all over the
v/orld. When three detectives, new to the
case, took over the files in 1944, they dis-
covered that the dental charts were wrong.
What was shown as the top jaw was the
lower one, and vice versa. Later in-
quiries disclosed that a dentist had filled
“Look! Using atom-bombs on us!”
two teeth for Mrs. Linda Agostini, and
from this discovery the slayer was later
brought to justice.
*l* *i* *>
•
“Uramao”: The dream of Chinese to
lay their bones in the Flowery Land, and
the loss to the Chinese Government in
money through its discouragement of the
practice (“Lao-dah”; B. 17/3 / ’54), recalls
the cargo of Chinese coffins shipped from
Wellington (N.Z.) for Hong Kong 52
years ago in the steamer Ventnor, which
struck a rock near Cape Egmont and
sank. If one could call spirits from the
vasty deep, 499 Chinese, a boatload of the
crew (including Captain H. G. Ferry) and
some Chinese attendants on the defunct
would answer the call. The Ching Shing
Tong Society, which shipped the consign-
ment of 499 coffins, 265 from Dunedin,
had insured the shipment for £5490, a sum
sufficient to defray the cost of exhuming
and boxing the bodies. Does the Tai
Chuen Society of China, of which the
N.Z. society was a branch, still flourish
under Communist rule?
❖ *> *>
“Phoongyee” (S’Africa): As to Sydney’s
narrow, winding streets (“W.P.T.,” B.
30/12/’53), take a look at Boston
(U.S.A.) and Kimberley (S. Africa). In
Boston the winding of the streets is laid
at the door of the cows meandering home
to their byres from Boston Common,
where they grazed; when the city was
laid out properly streets followed the
cow-tracks. Boston certainly can claim
to be the most “windey” city in the
world. Kimberley City streets wind be-
cause the city was laid out in accord with
the lines of the then diggers’ huts or
shacks. The diggers “went for” the
Big Hole” (long worked out), until the
De Beers Company, now known as
Anglo-American, took over and caused
some sort of order among them. Now
the Big Hole —largest man-made hole in
the world —is one of the tourist sights.
Sydney, in fact, isn’t in the race with
either Boston or Kimberley.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Civav”: “Cat’s Eyes” Cunningham no
longer holds the world’s altitude record
for aircraft, that honor going to a fel-
low-Britisher who established it in an
Olympus-powered Canberra. The new
figure is 63,668 ft. Though it’s the largest
turbo-jet in production in Britain, pro-
bably in the world, the Olympus will be
only a baby to the forthcoming De
Havilland Gyron, rated at nearly double
the former’s thrust —and doubtless both
Britain and America have even bigger
jobs not yet announced. Since the new
record was made at least two Americans
have exceeded 80,000 ft., in the Douglas
Skyray, but the latest figures have not yet
been officially accepted by the Federation
Aeronautique Internationale. Also, one
or more of America’s rocket-propelled
experimental aircraft have gone even
higher, possibly almost to 100,000 ft.;
these flights, however, did not conform
to the rules of the F.A.1., the aircraft not
leaving the ground under its own power,
but being air-launched from a heavy
bomber,
*
“Jezebel”: Coloring the Queen’s Eng-
lish comes naturally to old sailors. My
octogenarian father, scanning the baro-
meter at daybreak, yells: “The sun’s
scorching your eyes out, so stop lying
doggo. Quick’s the word and smart’s the
motion,” And woe betide those he
catches looking peeved: “I could scrub
a hammock on your lower lip,” they are
told acidly. When the odd bottle is
broached, the patriarch hands the empty
to his grandson and adjures him to “Drain
the weevil’s drop.” Following Grandpa’s
lead, my small fry accompany all swapping
transactions with this ritual chant:
“Choppee for changee? Black dog for
white monkey?” Likewise they purposely
overeat for the sheer delight of hearing
Grandpa warn: “Belly belong you soon
go walkabout!” If he’s looking, for
trouble, “Getting broad about the beam,
eh, lez?” never fails to arouse his dieting
daughter’s ire.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Mullum”: My young hopefuls had
been playing treasure-hunts when I
found this clue; “Look in the shorn* room
cubbed.” Obviously, it is not only the
migrant kind of new Australian who has
trouble with our language.
❖ ♦>
“Harrovian”: My par about “falsies”
(B. 14/4/’54) gave U.S.A. as the country
which passed the law. In 1770 there was
no U.S.A., though U.K. law would run
there. I cannot type, and farmed out
this job. I regret the error.
“P.0.M.C.”: The Act of 1770 making
the exploitation of all adjuncts to come-
liness by “virgins, maids, or widows” an
offence punishable as witchcraft would
have been automatically revoked in the
U.S. by the Declaration of Independence
(1776); especially as Britain recognised
the pronouncement six years later.
“Ceg”: Sorry, “Harrovian,” but the
date of that (English) proclamation about
“falsies” was 1700, not 1770. Apropos,
it is reported that a lady of Burbank, in
California, has evolved foam-rubber legs
for the weaker sex. They have rubberised
nylon stockings to hold them up, and a
top-layer of sheer nylon is worn to set
them off to best advantage. Casts are
made of the customer’s legs as a basis
for the moulds on which the desired
shape is built up. The finished articles
are said to defy detection (if that’s the
case the Yanks must have lost their
touch); the pores of the leg can breathe,
and the legs do not perspire. These things
are no novelty, because 18th-century
beaux wore cork-calves if their legs were
not naturally shapely. ■ This no doubt
explains why so many of the gentlemen
of that period were so fond of “making
a leg.”
BLIGHTED DREAMS
ẁ
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


T DIDN’T need the observation of a
Delaney to work it out. It was a
largish garden, and a young fellow was
digging a bed near one of the boundary-
fences. Like all the beds along that fence,
it didn’t look to need attention nearly as
much as those along the other boundary.
But it was the same with our garden when
I was a youngster. The neighbors on
one side had a mighty pretty daughter,
and the portion of our garden near their
fence was always in excellent trim. —
“Tonsi.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”; A New Australian friend who
has with quite remarkable speed acquired
a reasonably good command of English
confided to me that he considered “bac-
teria” and “whiskers” to be two of the
most mellifluous words in the language.
He seemed rather surprised when I gave
as my choice for the most beautiful-
sounding word “shekels.”
“Springvale”: In the severe Syrian
winter of 1941 we used to give the troops
calcium tablets for chilblains and apply
colloidal iodine. Many swore by their
own home cures—raw potato, roasted
onion, snow, urine and no socks. A
“As a matter of fact, I Went down for a swim and found her.”
World War I veteran whose feet I
examined showed no sign of chilblains,
“What do you use?” I asked. “Whisky,”
he said. “Do you apply it every day?”
He exploded with mirth. “Apply noth-
ing!” he said. “I drink it. Never had a
There may be S ° me '
thing in it, at that.
* *
“Ceg”: I was interested in Herbert
Holman’s remarks about the new coffee-
houses in London (B. 14/4/’54), and par-
ticularly in his statement that the expen-
sive Italian “Espresso” machines will pro-
duce a cup of coffee of quality sufficient
to satisfy the choosiest Continental or
American. Perhaps these mechanical
wonders will do just that; but I knew a
coffee expert with whom coffee-making
went like this; First, no chicory; the
beans had to come from one special valley
in Jamaica situated at a precise number
of feet above sea-level, and had to be
ground immediately before use. The
ground coffee was then percolated, with
cold water, in a vessel containing no
metal. The resultant liquid was heated to
a set temperature, and on no account
boiled, as that destroyed the delicate
essential “oils.” This expert condemned
as tripe the idea that the Frenchman
made the best coffee in the world. His
opinion of French coffee was that it was
on a par with their notion of tea, which
certainly wasn’t praising it! The method
in some of our own coffee-lounges is to
make a gallon or so and let it stew until
it is gradually used-up. Actually the best
coffee in the world is made in the U.S.A.
“Mullum”: The classic story of tele-
graphic errors (B. 21/4/’54) concerns a
worried man who received a wire:
“Mother’s condition dead but improving.”
A check with the telegram-office relieved
his anxiety somewhat when he was told
that the message should have read;
“Mother’s condition bad but improving.”
Any telegraphist can explain how it
happened.
“Mark O’Polo”: Sydney Show may be
the oldest in the land (B. 14/4/*54), but
if it is only 132 years old, the first one
must have been held in 1822, or 34 years
after the Foundation. By early Westralian
standards this was a lethargic start,
Perth, founded in 1829, organised its
Agricultural Society in 1831, and ran its
first show in 1834.
♦jf .j.
“Brick E.”; Nobody made that B.A.
turn-down his makeshift job as a builder’s
laborer to go, into the teachers’ college
(B. 21/4/’54); therefore he must have
either decided that he would be happier
teaching or realised that boom-and-bust
has always been the order in the building-
trade, and that over the years a teacher
would make about three times the amount
of money that a builder’s laborer would.
And the fact that the barrister’s form-
mate grew up to be a building-contractor
and much the wealthier of the two doesn’t
prove that the calling was the more lucra-
tive, but that the form-mate was the better
business-man—or, maybe, the greater
shark. If the positions had been reversed
he would still have made the most money.
Thirty-two years in the building-trade
have failed to make me the envy of any
professional man, but that is my own
fault. Now, if I’d had the business
acumen —or something—really to plunge
ŵ
the ground-floor room he’s been allotted
in Parliament House, Hele admitted that
people could very naturally be interested
in the man-sized job he has undertaken,
at the request of Mr. Menzies, of painting
the opening by the Queen of the Federal
Parliament on February 15.
T ' . * .
In a corner, on a dais, was an armchair
tor the succession of sitters who visited
J’p 0 . tW ° h ° urs each during * e
sittings of Parliament. The desk of the
rooms usual occupant had been pushed
out of the way There was an easel in
the centre of the floor, and a box of
paints. Pencils and paper had replaced
documents on the desk. A Minister had
left thfe room just before I entered.
I asked what size the finished painting
of the brilliant scene in the Senate
”I'd say it Was a girl.”
Chamber would be, and Hele told me
seven-feet-six by five-feet. “And how long
will it take?” I asked.
“About a year,” he said.
Then, hesitatingly at first, he gave me
an inkling of the intense enthusiasm he
has developed for the job in hand. He
feels it to be both a challenge and a
remarkable chance, and he has grasped it
with both hands and an eager mind.
“I’d been finishing all my work from
Korea,” he told me, “and I’d been paint-
ing portraits. I’d been feeling it was
about time I set out to do something to
please myself, when this arrived. I rea-
lised—who wouldn’t? —that it was a
unique opportunity. I find it more and
more fascinating as I go on. It offers a
tremendous lot of problems, and I love
problems of that kind.”
One of them, of course, was the brevity
of the actual ceremony which had to be
recorded on canvas. It lasted only about
twenty minutes.
“Everyone has been most helpful,” said
Hele. “When I came up to Canberra,
well ahead of the show, Frank McKenna,
of the Prime Minister’s Department,
took me in hand, and everyone in Parlia-
ment House, from the Usher of the Black
Rod, Jim Odgers, who had his own Royal-
visit problems, to the attendants, have
gone out of their way to help me. We
went over every part of the Senate to
pick the spot where I’d work, and finally
settled for the corner, close to where
Mclnnes worked in 1927 when he painted
the opening by the then Duke of York.”
The Mclnnes picture hangs in King’s
Hall, Parliament House, where it attracts
the attention of every visitor. It is a fine
work of art and a splendid historic
record.
A thought struck me. “Will that mean,”
I asked, “that you’ll just show the backs
of the heads of the Opposition?”
Hele shuddered. “For heaven’s sake,
don’t say that,” he said. “I don’t want to
get mixed up in any politics. It really
was the only position in the whole place
from which to do such a picture. There’ll
have to be some backs to me, of course.
It just can’t be avoided.”
Hele said that after he had accepted the
commission he had gone along and
studied the Mclnnes. He was struck at
once by the fact that Mclnnes had been
confronted with a major problem which
did not arise this time. This was that the
painting in 1927 was a daylight scene,
with subdued light coming through the
windows high above the galleries.
“Thank goodness my job was in arti-
ficial light, with the curtains drawn,”
Ivor Hele said. “And what light! All
the blazing floodlights for the Press-
cameras and films were playing down on
the Queen with her sparkling jewels. It
was breath-taking, magnificent! When
she came in, everyone sort of gasped
silently. You could feel it. It was the
sort of scene that would give any painter
a great kick!”
He mused, a bit pensively. “There was
one snag about that,” he said. “Those
lights were on only briefly during the
ceremony, so I went along next day to
get ’em turned on again, to help me with
my notes. I found that half of them had
b / en dismant i e d, and that anyway they
couldn - t be tumed on again because
they had only a short life,
- And ther g weren’t any others. They’d
been imported specially from America or
somewh £ re . i had to make do with the
normal lightingj an d just lift the color
about thr( f e or four tones
* ‘ ‘ '
There were some other difficulties,
“My really great problem in the brief
time available,” he said, “was the women.
They all had special hats and dresses for
the great occasion. There were dozens of
’em, and they were in their places for such
a little time. Luckily for me, most of
them were rather in the background.
The only women who were really promi-
nent in the scene —apart from the
Queen, of course —were Dame Patti
and Heather Menzies, and Mrs. McMul-
lin and Mrs. Archie Cameron. Dame
Patti and Heather have sat for me here,
and so has Mrs. Cameron. I’m arranging
to do Mrs. McMullin later, when she
returns from abroad.”
Then there was the business of getting
hundreds of people, most of whom had
to be recognisable, properly into perspec-
tive. “I’ve made dozens of sketches of
the Senate Chamber,” Hele said, “most
of them full-scale ones. It’s another of
those problems which I’m enjoying so
much. The getting of likenesses is the
least of my troubles, especially with
members co-operating by coming along
here when they can. But proportion—
that’s a job! But during these sittings
I’ve been spending a lot of time at my
post in the Senate, and sketching mem-
bers in their places. It’s all helping.”
Hele remarked that it was the sort of
task where a respite from time to time
was essential. He was looking forward
to getting home to South Australia when
Parliament rose, but of course he’d be
able to continue with it there. He’d been
fortunate enough to get chances to sketch
the Queen several times during her tour,
and he’d been at the light-hearted re-
hearsal of the Parliamentary opening.
“Then on the great opening day there was
that glorious five minutes after she’d sent
the message to the House of Representa-
tives. She just sat there perfectly still,
and looking absolutely magnificent.”
Hele has made a great many color
sketches for this painting, but he is glad
he has a retentive memory. “I’m sure
that everyone who saw that spectacle,” he
said, “will never forget it. I can still see
it, and I hope my picture of it will do it
justice.
“That reminds me that another problem
I had to get over was that all the faces
of the people on the benches facing me
were turned towards the Queen. I didn’t
want to have just rows of profiles, so
I’ve got the Prime Minister looking for-
ward, listening intently. He’s been won-
derfully helpful about it all.”
Hele will be back when the new Par-
liament assembles, for more sketches and
portraits. But he declares he doesn’t want
to be at the unveiling of the picture, if
there is a formal ceremony.
“Not on your life,” he said emphatic-
ally. “I’ll be as far away as I can get.”
That afternoon I went into the Senate
gallery. Looking down, I saw Hele sitting
in his corner, absorbed in one of his pro-
blems, as the dullish debate flowed over
him. I’m sure he didn’t hear a word.
IN PRAISE OF VERBIAGE
ẃ
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIRIT*
(yilancb
. W fAB STREMGTH
"hospital
b «andy
PERSONAL ITEMS
While the Australian Embassy staff in
Moscow were waiting for their visas and
tickets to Helsinki, John Landy left Aus-
tralia by 8.0.A.C. Constellation for the
same destination. The Australian mile
champion will run in eight races in Fin-
land over distances from 1000 metres to
one mile. After that he’ll represent Aus-
tralia at the Empire Games in Vancouver
and he has also been invited to compete
in the British Games and in the High-
land Games to be held in Edinburgh.
Landy hasn’t given up hope of cracking
the four-minute mile, and Finland, home
of many famous runners, could well be
the place for him to do it.
• •
Newly appointed to Home Command
H.Q., R.A.A.F., as Staff Officer (Ops.),
Group-Captain D. W. Colquhoun was
formerly in command of the jet-bomber
base at Amberley, near Brisbane. He
wears the ribbons of the D.F.C., won
while flying Hudsons with No. 6 Squad-
ron against the Japs, and the A.F.C. for
his work in showing the young-’uns how
to do it.
• •
First Buddhist monk to visit Australia,
Bhikkhu U Thittila is here to give a series
of instructional talks to the small band
of his co-religionists in this country. Lec-
turer in Buddhist Philosophy at Rangoon
University, he is a member of the Thera
Vada order of monks, served with the
London Ambulance Brigade during the
blitz and later worked with the Burmese
section of the 8.8. C.
• •
The astonishing, wrongly-named Ernie
Old is at it again! He’s off on another
marathon pushbike ride to celebrate his
80th birthday. The jaunt will take him
through Victoria and the Ma State and a
distance of 6400 miles. The day before
he left Melbourne he marched with the
Light Horse in the Anzac parade, then
pedalled 92 miles to Geelong and back
• •
Elected president of the Brisbane
branch of Rotary, Norman Sherwood
(hereunder attached) hails from Sydney
(his father one-time metropolitan super-
intendent of police). Taking his arts and
medical degrees up to Brisbane in 1926,
Medico Sherwood took his increased
ROTARIAN STATIONARY
medical know-how to the Middle East,
Greece and Crete (rank of Lt.-Colonel,
A. returning to become the
B. Queensland president in 1948.
One of his daughters is medicoing in
London, his son well on the way at
Queensland University.
Back, home after touring America with
boy-violinist Michael Rabin, accompan-
ist Raymond Lambert has more kindly
comments to make about his hosts than
were made by Master Rabin about his —
the youngster left these shores in a blast
of complaints about audiences and
critics. Lambert says that in the U.S.
communities don’t have to depend for
their music on whatever handouts the
broadcasting companies choose to send
them; they organise their own musfc by
raising the funds and then asking for the
virtuoso or conductor they want —and
they usually get him. Lambert considers
there are four orchestras over there better
than the best in Australia —the N.8.G.,
Philadelphia, Chicago and New York
Born in Brussels, but resident most of
his life in Australia, he has toured the
Commonwealth with some big names, in-
cluding Brownlee, Pinza, Austral, Ack-
land and Rethberg.
• •
Pictured here by Prior is an Australian
cattleman whose stockmen are gauchos—
he has lived for close on half a century
in the Argentine. Frederick Henry Finch
CATTLEMAN CONTEMPLATING
left the Hunter River district (N.S.W.)
in 1903 and spent the next five years
farming near Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.). In 1908
he decided to try his luck in South
America, where he linked-up with
Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co. (it was
Baron Justus von Liebig who discovered
the process which made beef-extract
possible). For many years Finch has
managed Liebig’s Estancia Garruchoq in
Corrientes province, in the narrow strip of
Argentinian territory that is sandwiched
in between Paraguay and Brazil. There
he runs 34,000 head, mostly of Zebu-
Hereford cross. In the late 1930’5, finding
that the original English strain was
weakening under subtropical conditions,
he introduced Santa Gertrudis blood from
King Ranch, Texas, with the result that
mortality dropped from 14 per cent, to
one per cent. Finch enlisted in the British
Army in the First World War and five
of his children joined-up in the Second.
He came to visit one of them in Sydney.
• •
Sir Oswald Birley, whose portraits of
the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh
adorn the N. S. Wales Government’s
royal gift-book, painted a portrait of
President Eisenhower when Ike was
supreme commander of the Allied forces,
flnd intended to present it to the subject
after he had finished a replica for him-
self, but the painter’s death last year
left the copy, unfinished, in the hands of
his widow. A subscription initiated by
Sir Winston Churchill, Earl Alexander,
Sir William Morgan and others enabled
the replica to be completed. The original
was sent to America to adorn the gallery
at the White House or the Mellon Art
Gallery at Washington; the replica was
presented to Mrs, Eisenhower. Birley was
a New Zealander, born in Auckland.
To Sir Frank Beaurepaire’s eight
world-records for swimming has been
added a record of a different kind —the
biggest gift ever made to the University
of Melbourne. His donation of £165,000
is for the building of a sports- and ath-
letic-centre which will include a gym-
nasium, squash-courts, boxing- and
wrestling-rooms and, of course, a swim-
ming-pool. There’ll also be a trophy-hall
and library, with provision for research
into methods of physical education
and various technical and medical aspects
of physical activities. Beaurepaire com-
peted in three Olympic series (1908, 1920
and 1924) and was an Olympic official at
the 1924 and two others (1932 and 1948).
Somewhere in between Olympics he
founded the Olympic Tyre Co. (of which
he is still chairman), represented Monash
in the Vic. Legislative Council and was
thrice Lord Mayor of Melbourne.
• •
“Becks” on a man of many parts:
When the people of the Maidive Islands, 400
miles south-west of Ceylon, deposed their first
President a few months ago, they were dealing
with a man who held more jobs than Pooh-Bah.
Amir Amin Didi was elected President two
years ago, on the death of the last Sultan. He
had already been governing the island for seven
years as head of the Regency Council and could
have had the succession to the 836-year-old
office of Sultan, but he preferred to change
the status of the group to “Republic within
the British Commonwealth.” Amir Amin Didi
was a university-trained man with some modern
ideas, but these obviously did not include the
idea of delegating authority. In addition to
being President, he held virtually all the Cabinet
portfolios, was president of the Maldivian
Civilisation Club, the Poetry Club, principal of
the boys’ college, commanding-officer of the
island’s military force, director-general of the
Maldivian National Trading Association and
captain and centre-forward of a Soccer team.
He was also the author of some books of verse,
grammar textbooks and a guide-book to the
islands. Possibly as a result of some or all of
these activities he fell a victim to blood-pressure
and diabetes and went to Madras for treatment.
While away he was deposed. He flew back,
resigned, was arrested, escaped, was injured in
the course of “demonstrations” and died “as
a result of the shock of the incident.” The
explanation of his end comes from his succes-
sors, two more Didis —Ibraham Mohammed
and Ibrahim Ali.
• •
New Zealand baritone Denis Dowling,
who has been the lead in the Sadler’s
Wells Opera Company for the past five
years, has had another triumph—in the
role of Malatesta in Donizetti’s comedy-
opera “Don Pasquale,” critic Eric Bloom
of the London “Observer” dubbing his
performance as superior to those of
famous Italian Malatestas. In March
Dowling began a tour round Britain with
the company, playing the lead in
“Madame Butterfly,” “Don Pasquale,”
“Carmen,” and “Der Fledermaus.” In
his spare moments Dowling sings in
8.8. C. programmes.
• •
Passed on at 90, Sir Norbert Keenan,
Q.C., one of Western Australia’s best-
known legal and political personalities
over the past 60 years. Admitted to the
Bar at King’s Inn, Dublin, and later to
Middle Temple, Inns of Courts, London,
he commenced legal practice in Westralia
in 1896, was Mayor of Kalgoorlie from
1901 to 1905, and then entered Parlia-
ment as M.L.A. for Kalgoorlie.
From 1906 to 1909 he was Attorney-
General and from 1930 to 1932 was Chief
Secretary. His second term in Parliament
was as member for Nedlands, which he
represented for over 20 years. His
knighthood came in 1948. In his
younger days Sir Norbert was a better-
than-average athlete. He won his univer-
sity’s 100yds. sprint title and was also
Captain of the Boats ; subsequently he
rowed for Leander. A keen yachtsman,
he owned some very fine craft, notably
Banshee and Nadina. One of the oldest
members of the W.A.T.C. and Father
of the Weld Club, and a leading figure in
many of the big legal battles of the State,
Sir Norbert left his mark in politics, law
and sport.
Although the accompanying sketch
bears the name of Prior, that artist is not
entitled to the full credit (or blame). Going
to the Contemporary Art Exhibition in
Sydney to caricature world-famous oboist
Leon Goossens, he tumed-in this draw-
ing, which he claims is like L.G. It also
bears an uncanny resemblance to entry
No. 139 in the C.A. Exhibition, which to
OBOIST RESTING
sculptor Eric Ghys represents “Opinion.”
Goossens, whose own opinion has not yet
been heard on either work of art, is a
younger brother of Eugene, conductor of
the Sydney symphony orchestra, and is
here on a concert tour for the A.B.C.
Leon took up the oboe at 10, and at
16 was Sir Henry Wood’s principal oboist
in the Queen’s Hall Orchestra. He has
been playing the instrument ever since,
either as soloist or at the No. 1 desk, with
celebrated orchestras. There was one in-
terruption when he fought with the
Eighth Fusiliers in World War I, in which
he was badly wounded a month before
the Armistice.
• •
G. N. Parsons, the father of the haemo-
philiac boy who died in Melbourne after
hundreds of persons had donated blood
in the medical battle to save his life, has
decided, as a memorial to the lad, to form
a society for helping other bleeders. The
sum of £4OO had been raised by public
subscription to aid the boy if he should
recover.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne on the first night of the revival
of “The Maid of the Mountains,” the play
that brought him to Australia, George High-
land, for fifteen years J.C.W.’s leading pro-
ducer. Born in England, he was a choir boy
when he attracted the attention of Sir Arthur
Sullivan; as a result he was the first to sing
“The Lost Chord” in a church. He produced
over 36 plays for the Firm, including “The
Vagabond King,” “Show Boat” and “Katinka.”
In Perth, at 59, William Joseph Kirkby, chief
draftsman of the Westralian Lands Depart-
ment and vice-president of the Institute of
Cartographers (W.A.). During 45 years’ service
in the Department of Lands and Surveys he
helped establish the system of maps and plans
now in use, and was responsible for the calcula-
tions and adjustments connected with the exten-
sions and amalgamations of pastoral leases
during the early ’thirties.
At Murwillumb'ah (N.S.W.), Frederick Wil-
liam Stuart, Boer War veteran, Country-party
member for Byron in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
1925-7, first secretary of the Tweed Fruitgrowers’
Association and of the district council of the
Primary Producers’ Union. In England with a
detachment of the N. S. Wales Lancers when
the Boer War broke out, he served in South
Africa with French’s column before transferring
to the Third N.S.W. Mounted Rifles.
In Cape Town, at 67, W. Vincent Tothill,
former resident medical officer on Nauru and
at the Chinese internment-camp at Hatches
Creek. After the war he was in practice in
Russell, Bay of Islands (N.Z.), where he and
his wife, a well-known nursing sister, are
kindly remembered among the Maoris.


THIS EQUALITY


ABORIGINALITIES
A DMITTEDLY Joe, the powerhouse
hand, was on the “graveyard” shift
when the world looks at its worst. He
had had, too, a “session” on the mat
over mistakes entered on the log-sheets.
He was sitting at the control-desk at 4
a.m. pulling the world to hits when a
spider came down its thread of web and
dangled belligerently some six inches in
front of his nose. Joe blew on it. The
spider made rapid, annoyed movements
with its legs. Joe made a swipe at it and
missed. The spider made agitated motions
and appeared to shape-up at him before
scuttling to safety. “Awright, y’ cow,”
Joe said angrily, dashing the pencil on
the floor, “be on the boss’s side! I’m
snatchin’ it!” He did, too, giving his
reason in his resignation as “personal. 5 '
—“Wire-buster.”
* * * *
“Ngaire”: Visiting on a minor matter a
Dutch family sharemilking in his district,
a Maoriland policeman, while crossing a
paddock, encountered one of the small
sons, who chatteringly informed him
that they had a baby kiwi. The cop
pricked up his ears, for private persons
aren’t allowed to keep in captivity that
symbol of the Dominion. In the house, his
business completed, he was proudly
"Hey, Joe —GOLDFISH.”
shown the family’s month-old baby girl,
which he duly admired while surreptiti-
ously glancing around for a sign of the
forbidden fowl. “We ’ave call her Kiwi,”
said the mother, proudly. “Such a nice
name, eh?”
* * * *
“Cunedda”: Among the most inter-
ested spectators of this year’s woodchop-
ping at Sydney Show were several
Spaniards. Spain isn’t a country where
you’d expect this particular sport to be
popular, but in the Basque provinces
woodchopping-contests have long been a
favorite entertainment. The annual
championships at San Sebastian attract
big crowds. The chops there last for
an hour or more.
* ♦ # *
“Emel”: Back in 1909, when mutton
cutlets, restaurant style, were usually
“rissoled meat into which was inserted
a piece of rib with a little white paper
collar” v two veterinary students ordered
cutlets in one of Sir Thomas Lipton’s
multiple restaurants in England. They
were startled to see, instead of the ex-
pected flat, sharp-edged rib-bone of a
sheep, the almost round ribs from a
dog’s skeleton. So perhaps, as they
argued to an incredulous waitress who
hesitated to bring them something else,
the meat also was dog! Later, they
learned that it wasn’t quite as bad as it
looked. It was regular trade practice for
contractors to supply in bulk bones of
suitable size, bleached, sterilised and
ready for use. The restaurants supplied,,
naturally didn’t inquire closely into the
origin of these bones. Even so, the
students swore-off “synthetic cutlets.”
“C.Q.”; During the recent record dry
s£ell people around Warrendyte (Vic.)
had either to fetch water from the Yarra
or buy it. A prospector who owned an
old mine-shaft he had been pottering
around for ten years made more money
out of selling the H2O in it than he
had ever made out of minerals,
♦ * * «
“I Ask You”: “Villefair” (B. 24/3/’54)
believes that the ground-lark (or Aus-
tralian pipit) must lay a bigger egg than
any other bird in proportion to its size.
That distinction, I think, belongs to the
Mallee-fowl,
* * * *
“Gui”: The “bends” (B. 14/4/’54), bet-
ter known to aviation as decompression-
sickness, becomes a serious problem over
25,000 ft., symptoms being mainly muscu-
lar pains and swelling of the abdomen.
At sea-level atmospheric pressure is
nearly 151 b. per square inch, but at the
record height of 63,668 ft. it is less than
lib. per square inch. Temperature falls
roughly four degrees F. for every 1000 ft.
of altitude up to 36,000 ft., where it stays
around minus 70 degrees F.—102 degrees
below freezing. Strangely, temperatures
well below this are often met in the
tropics and can put out a jet. Extra
oxygen is required over 15,000 ft. The
ill-effects of all three can be prevented
by pressurisation of the cabin. At great
heights fracture of the cabin resulting in
sudden depressurisation can cause explo-
sive decompression—virtually bursting of
the body—and instant death. Test-crews
wear special suits which, with their
plastic-fronted helmets, represent the
space-suits of fiction. These automatic-
ally inflate and exert back-pres Sure on the
body if the cabin pressure falls. An auto-
made emergency oxygen-supply and elec-
trie heating make each man an indepen-
dent unit and permit baling-out in an
emergency.
"Bass”: Research students at the West
Australian Institute of Agriculture have
found that some of our neglected native
pasture species not only have good fat-
tening and drought-resisting properties
but do something to the soil. That’s not
surprising. A lot of native trees and
grasses are legumes—wattles, for instance
—and legumes act as hosts to certain
bacteria which enable them to extract
nitrogen from the air between the soil-
particles. That nitrogen is added to the
soil in soluble form when the plant dies,
So an attempt is being made to build-up
“He certainly has his points."
the soil by restoring native grasses, under
control, and if the experiment succeeds it
should restore some of the country’s
natural beauty as well. One of the plants
they’re working on is the Red Runner—
a ground-creeping plant with bright green
leaves and a large red flower. They’re
growing paddockfuls of them at Merre-
din, in the wheatbelt
* * * «
“Sam”: Staring them in the eye seems
to be as effective with lions as with tigers
(B. 14/4/’54). At any rate we have
respectable authority in support—Bishop
Hannington, a pioneer Anglican mission-
ary in Uganda, related that, his party
meeting a lion and lioness, his native
“boy” promptly fled, the lions were too
close for a shot to be safe, and so the
Bish. stood quietly, staring them in the
eye! The lions, he recorded, fidgeted
restlessly, lashed their tails, and growled,
but made no charge. Then he suddenly
threw up his arms and “danced and yelled
like a madman.” The lions fled. Incident-
ally, the American wolverine has the
same fondness for porcupine-flesh as the
tiger, and suffers similar ill-effects from
its quills. It often dies through the quills
working through to the heart. Rutherford
Montgomery tells of it in his Garnajou.
* * * *
“K.R.”: Reading The Story of Atomic
Energy , by Frederick Soddy, 1921 Nobel
prizewinner in chemistry and sole survivor
of the team which worked with Lord
Rutherford in the early years of the cen-
tury and made the first practical dis-
coveries about radioactivity, I learned
that it’s a contradiction in terms to speak
of atomic energy after it’s been released
(per bomb or otherwise). “Atomic”
means, strictly speaking, the energy of
the indivisible; the scientific implication
of the term is that the energy would be
released if the indivisible could be
divided. As, after the emission of energy,
the “indivisible” has been divided, the
negative of “atomic” would be called for ;
which is an-atomic (not indivisible) —a
word, of course, already in use as anato-
mical (dissecting). So Soddy plumped for
the positive “tomic,” and made the dis-
tinction between the two words in his
book; the term “atomic energy” is still
correct when used to describe the energy
latent in the atom before it is released by
division. “Tomic,” however, hasn’t
caught on ; I’ve never seen the distinction
made elsewhere.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Villefair”: Gregory Blaxland’s vine-
yard (B. 7/4/’54) was almost certainly
part of the Blaxland estate which stretched
from the Parramatta-road at Auburn (the
old stone lodge still stands by the road-
side) across a mile of country to the
Parramatta River. The administrative
block of Newington Old Ladies’ Home
was the original old homestead of the
explorer. Later, Newington College took
over the property, and the big two-storied
dormitories probably date from the
school’s occupation. Other buildings
were added when the premises became a
hospital and home for ladies. In the
still stands the little chapel that
Blaxland built for the use of his family
and menage—St. Anne’s if my memory
is reliable. When I saw it last the walls
were cracked badly and panes were miss-
ing from the leadlight windows,
* * * *
“Sandgroper”: It has since become de-
based, but in the Westralian bush 30
years ago the term “battler” was a com-
pliment to a man’s courage, endurance,
patience and energy. One I knew who
had a wheatfarm in the low-rainfall area
between Merredin and Southern Cross
was typical of the breed. A kindly, whim-
sical character with a positive genius for
mismanaged toil, he raised a large
family and a non-reducing mortgage on a
staple diet of hand-gristed whole-wheat
flour, rabbit and cocky’s joy. Meeting
him on his way to the siding with a dray-
ful of pigs, I was informed that “the
missus was goin’ t’ have another baby.”
I sympathised with him for having to
sell his pigs for the event. “Aw, well,” he
said, “it’s a holiday like for her for a
few weeks. It’s a change for the kids,
too —they’ll be at me brother’s place near
the sidin’. An’, y’ know, I kinda look
forward to batchin’ on me own for a bit.
A man,” he added, in a gem of under-
statement, “gets a bit of peace and quiet.”
* * ♦ *
“Bellfield”: “No,” said Stumpy, “Never
grown punkins since old Ted’s family
got lead-poisonin’ through eatin’ ’em.
Ted useter grow snifters, but he ain’t
content with them —must try an’ raise
super-punkins. So he feeds his vine up
with strong fowl-manure. Next momin’
he comes out an’ sees his vine rushin’
like mad all over the joint, an’ as one
of his biggest was disappearin’ inter the
scrub he hops inside, gets his shotgun
an’ lets it have both barrels. Saved the
punkin, but the doc.’s bill damn near
broke him. I stick t’ marrers —they ain’t
so dangerous.”
* ♦ « * *
Historic Tin Plates
TPHOUGH there were, of course, earlier
A visitors, the only known memento
of an early European landing in Aus-
tralia was the one left by Dirk Hartog
on the island named after him.
On nothing more permanent than a
tin plate nailed to a wooden post the
Dutchman told of his arrival in the
Eendracht on October 25, 1616.
The weather of eighty seasons had
made little difference to the plate when
Willem de Vlaming found it lying in the
sand by the rotted remnants of the post.
He copied the inscription on to a new
tin ‘ plate, added a screed of his own,
and nailed it up on a new oak post, taking
the original plate with him to give to
the company heads in Batavia.
Another century passed, and Hamelm
came, by pure chance rescuing Vlaming’s
plate from the sand. He, too, copied out
the inscription, but restored the plate on
another new post.
This was seen by Baudin a couple of
years later (1803), but in 1822 Phillip
Parker King, looking for it, couldn’t find
it, the reason, however, being that De
Freycinet had taken it in 1818 and given
it to the Museum of the French Institute.
Towards the turn of the century the
Institute announced that they couldn’t
find it, and the whereabouts of Bill’s
plate is at present unknown, Dirk’s is in
the State Museum at Amsterdam.
Mark O’Polo.
THE HOUSE WITH BLUE DOORS
There’s little left of the house
On the ironbark hill,
A crumbling pis 6 wall,
An old pine sill,
And weathered stones that mark
The fireplace still.
Who built the house none knows;
So much must die
While axes bite through the sap
And ploughs sweep by.
The tale of the years has gone
With the curlews’ cry.
The doors of the house were blue —
Blue doors out there!
Where no one passed and the track
Screwed by the lair
Of dingo and kangaroo
And led nowhere.
Long now the doors have gone
But to this day
If you would ask your road
“You go,” they’ll say,
“By the house that had blue doors,
On the main highway.”
n.s.w.
ROB WEBSTER.


Canyon tell
big ’ Scotch from a
'Jp/fcre y* T i
BELtS
\
100% SCOTCH WHISK'fJ
DISTILLED AMD BLEW 081 '
IN SCOTLAND
SCOT^ N
O| STILLERS«»t«
82’ ....
T Of 5
'nooucr Of
small’ Scotch?
We don’t mean, of course, the
difference between a double and a
single. We mean the difference
between the ordinary run of
whiskies—and a masterpiece such
as Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an independent
firm of distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not huge.
But to those who know it, it is
very, very precious. At Bell’s
generation after generation have
handed on their skill; and this
coupled with the knowledge,
almost the Intuition, of those
who make whisky ensures that
the barley, water and peat, aided
by the soft Highland air, go to
make a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky— and you
will acknowledge its magic
mastery
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
i IN SCOTLAND
ofa.
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
m
H
m
m
HERE’S
RADIO’S
FASTEST
BRAIN...
Jack Davey’s lightning-quick
brain delights millions of
listeners to Persil’s famous quiz
show “Give It a Go” each week.
There’s information, laughs,
and best of all, interest and
surprise when Jack urges con-
testants every Monday night at v
8 to . . .
“GIVE IT A GO”
2GB - SAW - 4BH ■ SDN - SIX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2'CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQIIAttIE 0-
B R 0 A DCASTING SERVICE
to the country, we were ignorant
of the habits of the ringtail
possum who lived in the gums but
kept away from the house. Then
we installed a combustion-stove in
the living-room, a sheet of copper being
screwed to the bricks to block the wide
fireplace. One cold night we were dis-
turbed by distressed coughing behind it.
We doused the stove and unscrewed the
copper sheet, and down tumbled a very
sooty ringtail, which the dog promptly
hustled out and up a tree. He came again
the next night; this time he shot back
up the chimney and out on the roof.
Now he sleeps behind the stove summer
and winter, and coughs a little if the
smoke is thick. At dusk he runs up the
chimney and sits on the tiles, rubbing his
paws, and is good enough to accept from
the children slices of apple proffered on
the end of a long stick. —“Yarmi.”
• * « *
“Fairf”: Sydney Show appeals to city
folk as much as to country, and to female
as much as to male, but it apparently
fails to teach the city miss rudimentary
rural customs. Watching the ring-events
at night I heard one lass say: “Don’t you
think we ought to go home soon —a lot
of people are starting to leave?” “Well,
what if they are?” retorted the other girl
tartly. “Do we have to be led by the
nose like sheep?”
♦ * * «
“Sackville”: Yes, many of those alleged
horse-lovers were merely horse-users (B.
21/4/’54); much of the teamster’s pride
in his team could be written off as shallow,
even brutal, vanity. Will Ogilvie’s Dare-
away Dan was a good example:
“Now listen, Dick-with-the-woman’s-
heart, a word to you and the rest:
I’ve sixteen horses collared and chained, the
pick of the whole wide West,
And I’ll cut their throats and leave them
here to rot if they haven’t the power
To carry me through the gates of Hell —
with seventy bags of flour!”
And the traditional scratch-pulling was
barbaric; To decide which was the
stronger puller a teamster would hitch his
best horse rump-to-rump with another
man’s best; when the word was given
both horses jumped into the collar and,
with their owners laying the whip on,
reefed and strained until one of them
gave in and he was dragged back over
the scratch. Many a good horse was
ruined in the tortuous struggle. “It must
do things to you when you see trucks
pushing the horse out,” I said to one old
teamster. “Yes,” he said, quietly, “it
does. Wflen I think of the way horses
were flogged to make ’em get through
utterly impossible places, I only
wish we’d had trucks in my day.”
There spoke a true horse-lover.
* * *
“Maros”; With so much
heard of the possible annihila-
tion of mankind by some super-
bomb, it is often forgotten that
our continued existence on this
planet hangs to a great extent
on several other slender threads.
For instance, the ordinary
green leaf performs so import-
ant a task —the extraction of
a plant’s essential carbon from
the carbon-dioxide of the air—
that were it to fail universally to
do so from any at-present-unsus-
pected cause the whole world of
living organisms, plant and ani-
mal (and therefore mankind),
would pass away. This process
of carbon-extraction and its
transformation into substances
suitable to the plant’s digestion
is called photosynthesis. It de-
pends on the presence of chloro-
phyll—the group of complex
pigments which gives leaves their
greenish color, and which has
been found to have a close
resemblance to the red substance,
haemoglobin, which colors blood.
“M’Lou”: Wimmera (Vic.) snakes are
out to beat production-records. When
last month anew dam was put down on
T. Turrell’s farm at Boyeo, near Nhill,
there were turned up one large snake,
102 small ones, and about 50 eggs near
hatching-point.
* * * *
“Moresac”: A way to actually see what
salt will do to water is to cut one of the
two wires supplying current to an ordin-
ary household iight-bulb. Stick the two
cut ends into a tumbler of pure water on
opposite sides of the glass and nothing
will happen. But add salt and the bulb
will glow. The current now passes
through the mineral solution, which con-
ducts it almost as well as a copper wire.
If direct-current electricity is used the
positive ions of the salt will gather at the
negative terminal and the negative ions
at the positive terminal. The direct-current
carries the ions, but it is the water
which possesses the power to cause the
salt to separate into its electrically-charged
fragments. This power of water to pro-
duce ionisation is really extraordinary.
♦ * * *
“Mark O’Polo”: “J. 8.” is hasty in
refuting my statement that Baudin was
off the Westralian coast looking for La
Perouse a century after Vlaming (B.
14/4/’54). He is confusing d’Entre-
casteaux with Vancouver, who, arriv-
ing in 1791 at Chatham Island,
gave a name to practically every
prominent coastal feature along the
“Go! An' never darken my door again!”
400 miles between that island and
Termination Island, south of Esperance.
D’Entrecasteaux was never anywhere near
the Swan River; his first Australian
landfall was at Storm Bay (Tas.). From
there he went to the Solomon Island:,
New Guinea and the Indies, and came
south again to see the mainland for the
first time at the point which takes his
name, a few miles from Chatham Island.
Thence, he followed pretty well in Van-
couver’s track as far as the Recherche
Archipelago off Esperance. It was in the
light of d’Entrecasteaux’s discoveries that
the Consulate fitted out the Baudin
expedition to continue the search for La
Perouse, as well as to investigate further
the geography and natural history of the
Southern Islands.
**♦ . •
“Kerba”: Calling “Wippegong.” Say,
Wipp., ever see a bird that closely re-
sembles a sparrow in size, build and
general actions, but has yellow markings
on the cheeks and a fluffy black crest
which turns over in a graceful arc like
a cavalier’s plume? Got you puzzled?
Yes, it had me, too, until 1 happened to
glance in the fowl-run and see the broken
egg, a few Orpington breast-feathers
clinging to the mess, and a, swarm of
other spags getting in for their chop.
* * * *
“Kelms”: As a means of combating
the increasing menace of salt in the Wes-
tralian wheatbelt, it’s been suggested that
bulldozers should be used to connect the
numerous salt-lakes and drain them into
the ocean. The idea’s not so silly, either.
Much of the salt has been carried inland,
as ocean spray, over thousands or mil-
lions of years, and one good flushing
should remove the deposits of centuries.
That’s what happened before the great
rivers dried-up and left the chains of salt-
lakes, and those rivers mightn’t need much
encouragement to run again. Last year,
over most of the wheatbelt and extend-
ing into the desert areas, the lakes burst
their banks and flowed along the old
river-basins. Bulldozing in the right spots
would allow the run to start earlier and
drain the lakes more effectively; and
while this would only happen in excep-
tional years, a“t those times it would pre-
vent the flooding which occurs when
streams several miles wide meander
through arable areas. It would be a big
job, because there are tremendous areas
involved; but it might be worth while
for the same reason.
SONG FOR THE COUNTRY GIRL
She’s a sweet country girl,
Call her country name.
She’s no girl at all,
I dreamed her out there,
In the country-valley districts
I dreamed her face and hair,
In the rusty green valleys
Where farms perch like birds;
And she lives in one of them
But in none of them at all,
And so I call with pain;
O I call her country name.
The small farmhouses have masked bird-faces
All through those districts, the green gully
places,
But I see her small face on the valleysides
like grass
And fear her strange blue eyes
In a hilltop’s road of sky;
She’s a sweet country girl,
O call her country name.
TASMANIA.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


m
c?
■B3BB BBS ; r
I ■
E
M
■
m 3
m ■. I
■kmi
■aßs
V, i
m
A
m
Hi
,
W
' '
m
m
11
ip
jm
v:'-
"You asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes. Sir?’*
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
Benson and Hedges Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.
APPOINTM6
ŵ
ẁ
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world's most
famous liners, including the following great ships:—
QUEEN ELIZABETH • QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES • AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE • SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIG • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN • ORONTES • ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO ; MAURETANIA
. _ ■
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
“ w ILaS
Business Rollery Etc.
Money in Oil
“Petro”: While the oil
industry, in general, pays its
employees liberally, the stipends
earned fade into insignificance
when compared with the fortunes
made “on the side” by share-
manipulators who, as often as
not, do not know a whipstock
from a boll-weevil. How they do
it may be of interest not only co
professional Get-rich-quick Wal-
lingfords, but to the smaller fry
who wish to graduate out of the
two-up class into something
higher in the public esteem, more
lucrative and less liable to police
interference.
The first step towards the
fulfilment of this ambition is to
establish a furphy-factory, con-
veniently near but not on a
drilling-location. For at least the
first month, the factory must
confine itself to the supply of
completely correct and verifiable
information, particularly in pubs
frequented by young Pressmen.
When it has managed to get into
print a few times and has attained
public confidence by a reputation
for veracity, it should test its
status by floating a cautionary
and mildly-pessimistic furphy. If
the shares drop following the
release of this item, the factory
has made the grade and can
operate with less circumspection.
Now is the time to buy a parcel
(not too large) of shares, prefer-
ably through a nominee and
spread over several brokers.
After an interval, the next step is
to instruct the factory to issue
a , glowingly - exaggerated
appraisal of the oil prospects.
This can be bolstered by “eye-
witness” accounts of “shows” of
oil in the well —easily-verifiable,
by the way, as the “returns”
pumped out of the well invari-
ably carry “colors" of oil, impres-
sive to the layman, but without
importance to the experienced
oilman, as they are derived from
the lubricating oil used in normal
operations.
Following the almost inevitable
rise, of which advantage is taken
by offloading the shares at a
profit, and the equally inevitable
denial (by any sound company)
of the value of the reported
“show,” the shares are bound to
drop and the parcel can be
bought back at a few shillings
below the selling-price, allow-
ing for brokerage both ways,
The furphy-factory should now
be running smoothly, and a firm'
order can be placed with a
discreet stockbroker to buy at,
say, par and sell at, say, twice
par. Do not tnake the range too
ambitious, for thereby lies the
road to ruin. Be content, if you
can, with small profits and quick
returns and seed both buying and
selling furphies with a modicum
of reliable and accurate infor-
mation.
Thus, often, has been opened
to men who abhor humble toil
a prospect of affluence followed
by respectability and, possibly,
a Parliamentary career, culminat-
ing in a fat portfolio.
Items of advice:
Pick a small (not more than
£2 million) company with as
“green” a board as possible.
Don't overwork the furphy-
factory in the hope of large gains.
Most investors in small oil com-
panies are easy to fool most of
the time, but even they have their
limits.
Locate your furphy-factory
within easy communication of
the drilling activities, but not on
site. It is only in the rare case
where one is able to obtain un-
published information, either
favorable or unfavorable, on the
spot that this rule should be
broken. Even on a steady
market, you can then sell or buy
forward, according to your in-
formation, and bide your time.
Kinnears Ropes
A quite important new float
in the offing is Melbourne-
registered Kinnears Ropes
(Aust.), Ltd., which has a paid-
up capital of £903,000, all in
10s. ords. Existing holders are
placing 405,720 shares at par
through Melbourne brokers
Wm. Noall and Son, the de-
clared aim being to qualify the
co. for taxation at public-co.
rates and for listing on Mel-
bourne ’Change.
Kinnears Ropes (Aust.) is a
holding co, owning all the capi-
tal, apart from employees’
shares, in Geo. Kinnear and
Sons Pty., Ltd. The proprietary
kicked off in 1910 with a paid
capital of £24,000, having taken
over the rope-making business
founded by Geo. Kinnear in
1874. At its Footscray factory,
which almost entirely covers a
nine-acre block, it now turns
out manila, sisal and coir ropes,
braided and plaited goods, bale-
and binder-twines, flax and
linen shoe-threads and weaving-
yarns. Production and manage-
ment techniques are reported up
to date, thanks largely to regu-
lar executive visits overseas. On
present prospects the board ex-
pects the co.’s past growth to
continue.
Adjusted profits for the five
years to Feb. 28, 1953, expressed
as a percentage of paid capital,
are stated at 10.7, 7, 13.4, 17.6
and 11.2 p.c., the average being
12 p.c. Directors expect accounts
for the year to Feb., ’54, to
show a profit not less than in
the previous year. No indica-
tion is given of the probable
future div.-rate. Net assets cover
is put at 10s. 9d. per 10s. share.
The local rope and cordage
industry is well established, and
supplies nearly all of Australia’s
requirements. For that reason
it seems likely that future ex-
pansion will be largely deter-
mined by the growth of the
economy as a whole. In 1951-52
the industry in Australia pro-
duced 714,3591 b. of sash- and
other cords, and 252,573 cwt. of
ropes, twines, etc., compared with
1,396,5951 b. and 290,518 cwt.
respectively in 1939-40. Last year
output slumped to 588,6041 b. of
cords and 188,062 cwt. of ropes,
etc. (Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures).
On the board of this holding
co. are E. H. Kinnear (chair-
man), Hon. Sir Archie Michaelis,
H. Kinnear, J. C. Kinnear,
G. B. Kinnear, J. H. G. Guest,
O. Michaelis.
A. G. Sims
Projected issue of 160,000 £1
6 p.c. prefs. by this scrap-metal
dealer and refiner will raise its
paid-up capital to £635,000,
£200,000 in 6 p.c. pref. money
and the rest in ss. ords. The 34-
year-old Sims organisation is the
biggest of its kind in Australia ;
it has factories and/or depots
at Mascot, Granville and North
Sydney, N. S. Wales, as well as
m Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. It supplies scrap to
steel-manufacturers and to steel-
and iron-founders, refines non-
ferrous metals, recovers tin from
tin-plate scrap and collects scrap
battery-lead.
For the past three years the
co. has paid comfortably-covered
10 p.c. divs., though net earn-
ings slipped a little last term.
An interim report says that sales
and profits for the six months to
December were higher than in
the corresponding ’52 period. At
7s. for the ords. the yield on a
10 p.c. div. basis is 7.1 p.c.,
which is satisfactory for what
seems to be a sound and promis-
ing stock.
“Do look more pleasant, Joe — it’ll make ’IM feel better.”
Edwards Dunlop
No doubt about Edwards
Dunlop—shareholders get their
income the hard way. The p.c.
div. which has been paid dur-
ing the past four years has been
worth only 6i p.c. to those who
paid a premium of 20s. a share
for their new scrip in 1949 and
1951, and even less to those who
coughed up a 295. premium in
1947. The one-for-five issue
which closed at the end of last
month carried a 10s. premium,
giving a yield of 8.3 p.c. so long
as the p.c. continues. On
the market, however, the rights
closed at 255. 6d., making the
fully-paid price 555. 6d. to the
buyer, as against 565. 6d. for the
fully-paids, which show a yield
of 4.4 p.c.
Visible net tangible backing
when all the new money is in will
be slightly under 50s. a share.
Last year’s earnings were dis-
closed at a little under 14 p.c. on
capital.
The comparatively low dis-
closed earning-power of funds in
a, type of business which, during
the post-war years up to 1951,
should have been doing hand-
somely is inclined to be puzzling,
but evidence indicates that profits
are arrived at after more than
usual regard for contingencies.
Fixed assets are in the books at
a low figure. There was a slump
in newsprint and writing-papers
during 1951-52, but prices have
now stabilised. The printing
trade, however, is rather long-
winded in paying its accounts
just at present.
The business is solidly
entrenched, but directors’ finance
policy will need to change before
shareholders get anything lush
out of it.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
C England )
JfJS.W. Branch :
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Countless Thousands Agree
lifesaH
TRADE MARS
*jss£~*
b he« m#T l. S
R sc< s
« eU „ b £
lU^ 0A
* ffE CTI'' E
801^
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
relieves all
RHEUMATIC
PAINS
Since Dolcin was perfected
by American scientists five
years ago, thousands of men
and women throughout the
world have found merciful, long-lasting relief
from the pains of arthritis, rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis and gout.
More than a thousand million Dolcin tablets
have already been taken, and an endless stream
of letters of thanks testify that Dolcin has
given prompt relief where all other treatments
failed.
DON’T GIVE UP-YOU CAN EASE PAIN
ẃ
Write for informa-
tive literature
Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
ẅ
"v.
“V..
V.V-v
/:
\m
iii
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
Even now they are being
developed,
and this
illustration
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance.
AVIATION
w
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
' (Marketers for Anglo-lr anion Oil Co. Ltd.)
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Maoriland’s Car Racket
Maorilanders are still ready
and willing to pay fancy prices
for used cars. War-time controls
first put used cars in the fancy-
price class, and post-war controls
have kept them there. The Gov-
ernment has tried tightening and
easing controls without making
any apparent headway against
the vices. And today, as the door
is opened wider to let in an extra
6000 cars, on top of a 50 p.c.
increase granted last Nov.,
making an aggregate rise of
75 p.c., there is still no certainty
that there will soon be enough
cars to meet the demand.
Among the rackets, the oldest
is conversion of new models
into “new-used cars,” to
command a premium of several
hundred pounds over pegged
new-car prices; another is
the habit of forcing buyers to
trade-in old cars a long way
below their value before they
can get one of the latest on the
market. Maorilanders who
refuse to be taken down like this
just wait and wait, while their
old cars grow older. The
market is blighted by one or
other of these methods of swind-
ling the public. Anything up to
£3OO profit can be made on a
new or used car by such
methods.
Total imports of cars this year
could reach nearly 40,000, under
the record £15.4 million alloca-
tion of funds, against £9.3 million
in 1953.
Thus the odds in favor of
progress against the pent-up
demand are more promising than
in any previous planned attack.
If buyers make up their minds to
wait rather than pay fat
premiums for cars they should
gain the upper hand and break
the last major racket.
Car-profiteering developed in
a big way around 1949, with the
changeover to new post-war
models, and since then the total
of under-the-table payments
must have run into millions. This
has resulted in some unofficial
exchange operations through
purchase and resale of London-
domiciled shares, which have
been among the most keenly
sought securities in Maoriland.
Any loss on sale at the London
end has been recouped, along
with a handsome windfall, when
such cars have been turned over
to other buyers in N.Z. A highly
organised system like this could
continue indefinitely, so long as
the market was there to absorb
cars at inflated prices.
A fair slice, £900,000, of the
extra funds now earmarked by
the Reserve Bank to increase
1954 car imports will go into
dollar models, which are the
shortest of all. Jack Watts,
Minister of Import Licensing,
reckons that 1600 of the 6000 in
the extra allocation will be from
the dollar area. By the end of this
year about a third of N.Z.’s
motor-car fleet of 320,000-odd
should be less than four years old,
and most of the others should be
post-war types. After this year,
there should be a fair chance of
keeping abreast of wear and tear,
along with normal expansion.
If, at the same time, the leakage
of N.Z.’s sterling funds into
unofficial side-streams can be
stopped, business should get
back on the level again.
One-eyed Socialists
The Socialists copped plenty
of the blame for high prices
when the Price Tribunal lately
called for an all-round expres-
sion of views on price-control.
This was no more than they de-
served after saddling N.Z. with
controls of all kinds and resist-
ing all efforts to get free of
them.
One of the industries
that has had its fill of
price-fixing is sugar. A. C.
Isaacs, N.Z. manager for C.S.R.,
says the co. pays £1 million a
year in excise duty on its pro-
ducts, and nets only £125,000, or
|d. a pound profit.
“The Government gets eight
times as much out of sugar as
we do,” Isaacs told the tribunal.
“No wonder we come to the con-
clusion that price-control exists
in the minds of its strong sup-
porters for ideological reasons
that have little to do with the
price the consumer pays.
“The monopoly element in any
business tends to be singled out
by Socialist propaganda for a
considerable amount of unthink-
ing condemnation. The word
‘monopoly’ itself has come
to be tinged with a suggestion of
opprobrium that in most cases is
wholly undeserved. Large-scale
industry usually has a high degree
of awareness of its responsibility
to maintain a first-class service to
its customers. It has a large and
important stake in the country
and undertakes long-term policies
of development. In return, it
expects a reasonable and
moderate profit. A ‘get-rich-
quick’ outlook is seldom if ever
found in this type of industry.
Such an outlook would be
stupid.”
This defence of industry, and
C.S.R.’s claim that big industry
is “aware of its responsibility,”
when viewed in the light of
C.S.R.’s record, although not
without some doubtful spots,
seems sound. All but one-eyed
Socialists have been the more
impressed because of the shabby
record of control, compared
with which any shortcomings
of monopoly are forgivable
lapses.
The Tourist Trade
There are signs that British and
Yankee shipowners will soon be
thinking about getting back on
the Pacific route to N.Z. and
Australia after a break of 15
years. Tourist fares and com-
petition in the air are showing
the way. The Matson and Orient
cos. will be in the race, with a
turn of speed second only to the
Atlantic greyhounds, and with
luxury cabins that will make
N.Z. more than ever sensitive
about its hotel accommodation.
Brewery cos., which own
N.Z.’s best hotels, say they can't
make a do of the guest trade
under price-control. So there’s
stagnation, and the number of
hotel beds is less than quarter
of a century ago. In the past
15 years 10 hotels and boarding-
houses hate been closed down
in Rotorua —a loss of 423 beds —
and only “bed and breakfast”
places have been opened up. This
is a sample of what has been
happening more or less all over
N.Z. Visiting Yanks and others
have been fairly tolerant of
hotel austerity so far, but N.Z.
can’t harvest a fortune in dollars
from tourists without spending
millions on modernising, enlarg-
ing and multiplying the number
of its hotels and guest-houses,
along with a changed outlook in
the staff and management of
many of them.


Have you time for
ALL your duties as
&
pROBAtt?
Executor?
If the complex problems of Estate administration are
too burdensome for you, as a private executor or
trustee, why not transfer your responsibilities to
Union Trustee? The Company may be appointed
to act in your place, or jointly with you as
co-executor.
With almost 70 years of experience in the adminis-
tration and management of Estates, the Company
is well qualified to render comprehensive service in
protecting and conserving Estate assets.
Call or write for a Copy of the booklet “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees /’
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
■pROSPECTS for those ort the share-
register look more encouraging than
at any time since the co. took over the
sugar interests of the Young family in
the Bundaberg district over 41 years ago.
Main reason is a 57 p.c. increase in the
area from which the mill draws its cane,
and therefore growth in the outturn of
raws —the co.’s mill quota was stepped
up from 29,500 tons raws for the 1952
season to 37,000 tons for 1953, and is
expected to be 37,500 tons for 1954.
The growth followed the U.K.-Com-
monwealth sugar pact, which provides
for an annual export of 600,000 tons
raws (about 200,000 tons more than pre-
viously), over half of which is taken at an
annually negotiated price, and the balance
is sold on the open market, where it en-
joys certain British and Canadian prefer-
ences. Also, the co.’s rehabilitated copra
plantation in the Solomon Islands is now
contributing more to the pool, and so is
its Hereford stud farm.
A notable and commendable achieve-
ment connected with the expansion of
sugar-production is the board’s £250,000
cane-farm project at Moore Park, about
12 miles from Bundaberg. Here 1700
acres of virgin tea-tree covered swamp
was bought a couple of years ago, and
is now largely cleared, drained and cut
up into 60-acre canefarms. The co. also
undertook to drain an adjoining 1050
acres for soldier-settlement. When
soldier-settlement broke down owing to
disagreement between Federal and State
Governments over finance, Fairymead
pushed on with the project, using its own
resources. Some of the farms, planted
with cane which will be ready for the 1954
crushing, have already been sold,
apparently since the close of accounts.
The whole project is expected to be com-
pleted by the end of 1954 —from timber-
covered swamp to productive sugarfarms
inside three years—which places fresh
emphasis on the fact that the shortest way
to increased production is through private
enterprise.
After allowing something for taxation,
£38,430 (up £619) for depreciation and
dropping £2500 into the insurance re-
serve, last term’s net earnings took a
leap of £48,196, reaching £137,618:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
i 1949. . 108,511 12 p.c. = 59,892 48,619 713,179
I Added replacement reserve, £14,832 728,011
1 Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 730,511
(1950.. 103.083 12 p.c. = 60,000 43,083 778,594
I Added replacement reserve, £34,272.. 807,866
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 810,366
1951.. 11.547 8 p.c. = 40,000 781,913
j Share premiums. £125,000 .. .. 906,918
Added replacement reserve, £36,482 .. 943,345
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 945,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964.434
Added replacement reserve, £37,628.. 1,002,062
To insurance reserve, £2500 ..1,004,562
1953.. 137,618 12 pic. = 90,000 47,618 1,052,180
! * Includes replacement reserve, £473,691 at
31/12/’53.
The £137,618 of profit was equal to 18.3
p.c. on capital as against 12.6, 2.3, 20.6,
21.7 and 15.9 p.c. back to 1948. So noth-
ing had to be strained when the div. was
lifted from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its actual
milling figures, but production in the
industry as a whole has moved in this
way:
r Production Raw Sugar
Home Export
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. .. 587,745 157,346 745,091
1952 .. .. 477,000 471,000 948,000
1963* .. . . 517,000 740,000 1,257,000
* Estimates; final figures not yet available.
A bigger acreage under cane and better
seasonal conditions were chief factors
responsible for the increase of 309,000
tons in last year’s total production of
raws, of which nearly 59 p.c. was
exported.
Average prices realised in the home
and export markets have been as fol-
lows :
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1951 .. 33 14 0 8615 6 34 7 6
1952 .. 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 3
1953* .. 46 10 0 38 10 0 41 12 0
* Estimates, subject to adjustment.
The negotiated export price for 1953
(covering 324,000 tons) was £A47 ss. a
ton, but open-market sales are expected
to reduce the average export figure to
£A3B 10s. per ton. Although the overall
average was £1 a ton less than for 1952,
net returns benefited from the bigger turn-
over. After deducting freight, insurance
and handling charges, last year’s sugar
export surplus was worth nearly
£29,000,000 to the Australian economy.
To help finance the Moore Park ven-
ture and increased mill-capacity, 250,000
new £1 shares were issued at a premium
of 10s. each in February, 1952; —
n .. . , 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital ~ £500,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. .. 781,913 964,434 1,052,180
Liabilities* .. 757,461 777,158 513,474
Final div. .. 10,000 42,500 45,000
£2,049,374 £2,534,092 £2,360,654
Estates .. .. 356,053 471,796 501,425
Factories, etc. .. 960,607 1,043,208 1,095,739
Livestock .. .. 100,447 98,672 55,988
Stocks, etc. .. 299,266 357,183 250,008
Book debts .. 322,358 526,466 482,463
Cash. etc. .. 10,643 41,767 25,031
£2,049,374 £2,534,092 £2,860,654
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term £29,629 was added to estates
and £52,531 to factories, etc. The con-
tractions of £107,175 in stocks, £94,003
in book-debts and £263,684 in liabilities,
etc., reflect improved shipment of sugar
from Queensland ports.
At the moment another good season is
in prospect. The sharemarket prices the
co.’s scrip at 41s. (355. 2d. a year ago) to
return a satisfactory 5.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover, including
the replacement reserve (£473,691), is 48s.
Bums Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
HEADQUARTERS are in Fiji, and
two-thirds of the co.’s £750,000 of
paid capital is held by Bums Philp, Ltd.,
which passed the South Pacific section
of its island business to this offshoot in
1920. From the start the policy has been
to keep the div. moderate and build up
reserves, visible and otherwise, and so
finance expansion largely out of surplus
earnings, which adds to the attractiveness
of the scrip as a holding proposition.
At Jan 31, 1954, reserves totalled
£1,017,938, or £267,938 more than paid
capital. Of the reserves £570,767 net
cam© from undisclosed sources since
1943. Capital and reserves combined
need turn in only 4.2 p.c. to cover 10 p.c.
on capital alone, whereas last term’s
£100,924 of profit was equal to 5.7 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds. No bonus-scrip has
been scattered to date, nor has there been
any writing-up of the book-value of
assets. For the 20 years to 1940 divs.
averaged 6.1 p.c., then 7.6 p.c. for the
nine years to 1949, followed by a steady
10 p.c. for the five years to the close of
last accounts.
Until the international outlook be-
comes more settled the market
doesn’t expect any immediate im-
provement in its return from the
undertaking, and therefore prices the
f.-p, £1 shares at 455. During 1953 the
price fluctuated within the narrow
bracket of 475.-445. The return at 455.
is 4.9 p.c. on the basis of last term’s dis-
tribution, 10 p.c. Fiji being equal to
11.1 p.c. in Australian currency at the
present rate of exchange. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 475. Id.
Shortly after the war there was talk
of returning half the capital, but the pic-
ture quickly changed, and all-round
growth of the undertaking has kept funds
employed at an overall expanding rate
of profit. Last term dry conditions in
Fiji, Tonga and Samoa caused a sub-
stantial decline in copra-production, with
consequent curtailment of spending-power
and reduction in merchandising sales and
shipping earnings.
The slip in gross profit (£455,398) was
£10,194, and exes. (£311,291) were £14,798
heavier. But cuts in allowance for depre-
ciation (£35,379, down £16,830) and bad
debts, etc. (£7804, down £2255) reduced
the net contraction to £5907:
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit, v —Dividends——, serves. serves.
£/ £ £ £
1949.. 94,018 8| p.c. = 65,625 28,398 828,148
Unexplained reduction, £953 .. 827,195
1950.. 96.702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893,008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,573 917,581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952.. 96,441 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,441 955,485
Unexplained addition, £9563 .. 965,048
1953. .106,831 10 p.c. = 75,000 31,831 996,879
Unexplained reduction, £4865 .. 992,014
1954. .100,924 10 p.c. = 75,000 25,924 1,017,938
The £100,924 of profit claimed was 13.4
p.c. on capital compared with 14.2, 12.8,
13.3, 12.9 and 12.5 back to 1949. That
leaves out of the reckoning a reduction of
£4865 in the equalisation reserve, etc.,
which appears to be connected with a
revaluation of merchandise stocks, bring-
ing them into fine with current replace-
ment cost.
The year’s net reduction in the book-
value of stocks was £258,462:
1951. 1952. 1958. 1954.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Reserves .. 917,581 955,485 996,879 1,017,938
Owing to sub-
sidiary - 624,593 643,377
Creditors, etc, 161,755 213,502 875,272 850,020
Final div. .. 37,500 37,500 37,500 37,500
Total .. 1,866.836 1,956,487 3,284,244 8,298,835
Properties, ship-
ping, etc... 214,242 229,619 238,249 251,395
Shares subsid. 814,960 314,960 314,960 314,960
Investments . 107,799 108,584 813,571 944,425
Stocks, etc. . . 984,108 859,372 1,497,892 1,239,430
Book debts.. 165,744 230,703 270,944 395,148
Owing by sub-
sidiary .. 4,390 119
Cash . . 75,593 213,130 148,628 163,477
Total .. 1,866,836 1,956,487 3,284,244 3,298,835
There was a heartening growth of
£124,204 in book-debts, accompanied by
a cut of £25,252 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., and addition of
£130,854 to investments, which consists
of shares in other cos., and Government
loans, etc.
As for the current term, the outlook for
sugar and copra—the two biggest con-
tributors to Fiji’s national income—
remains bright. At £S7O a ton the 1954
f.o.b. price of copra (taken by the British
Government) is £SS better than the 1953
figure, and another good sugar crop is
expected to be harvested and sold for a
gross return equal to, if not better than,
last season’s.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
SPECIALISING in medium-priced
tailoring, mercery and sporting goods,
and operating largely on a cash basis,
which means that trade commitments,
both as creditor and debtor, are moderate,
this well-handled Melbourne retail busi-
ness has always been a good profit-earner
and divideqd-payer, and there is nothing
at the moment to suggest that it will not
continue to be. v
For the decade to the close of last
accounts ord. divs. averaged 12 p.c.,
sweetened with a one-for-two bonus
scrip-issue in 1951, compared with an
average of 9\ p.c. for the decade before
that. Moreover, the figures for the three
years to February 28 last suggest that
the gift-giving was not overdone—it
involved £lOO,OOO which came from a
revaluation reserve of £200,000, created
by writing-up the book-value of the free-
hold, bought in the early 1920’5:
f Dividends—— >
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 12J p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 47,091 9,000 25,000 13,091 143,088
1949.. 58,558 9,000 25,000 19,658 102,646
1950.. 48,526 9,000 26,000 14,562 177,172
Revaluation assets, £200,000.. .. 877,172
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 277,172
1951.. 64,294 9,000 82,500 22,794 299,960
10 p.c.
1952.. 73,215 9,000 80,000 84,215 884,181
1953.. 66,777 9,000 80,000 27,777 861,958
From tax reserve, £11,987 ~ 878,945
12i p.c.
1954.. 76,891 9,000 37,500 80,391 404,330
* After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
The slip in declared net earnings for the
difficult 1953 period was more apparent
than real, the figure being written after
providing £11,987 more than was needed
for taxation. And the cut in the div.
from 12£ p.c. in 1951 to 10 p.c. for the
two following years was the result of
caution rather than necessity ; in each
year declared profit was more than
enough to maintain the higher rate of
distribution.
Last term both export income and
internal trade became more buoyant as
the year advanced, and the cO.’s turn-
over (amount not stated) showed a
“satisfactory increase.” It was a period
of relative stability so far as wage-costs
were concerned, but competition
sharpened with the progressive relaxation
of import-restrictions and reduction of
trade inventories, which means that gross
margins were a bit finer.
After allowing an unstated amount for
taxation and £3132 (down £437) for de-
preciation, the declared profit was
£10,114 stronger at a record £76,891. If
the previous year’s overprovision for
taxation is taken into the reckoning, there
was a drop of £1873 in last term’s net
result. The declared profit covered the
9 p.c. pref. div. and 26.6 p.c. on the
£300,000 of ord. capital as against 19.2,
21.4, 18.4, 19.7 and 22.2 back to 1949.
The div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to 12i
p.c. again, and looks like remaining there
for the present at any rate.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a cautious
trading policy, including keen buying, as
well as a strong financial position, which
was further strengthened last term;
Paid capital— 1962. 1953. 1954.
Pref 100.000 100,000 100,000
Ord 800,000 300,000 800,000
Reserves .. .. 834,181 361,958 404,336
Mortgages ~ .. 99,000 99,000 64,000
Creditors ~ .. 51,349 39,271 '40,238
Tax provision .. .. 54,427 54,214 43,185
Final div 15,000 15,000 22,500
£953,957 £969,443 £974,259
Freehold .. .. 638,518 638,518 688,518
Plant, fittings, etc. .. 18,078 23,086 24,558
Shares subsidiary .. 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks .. .. . . 269,959 191,459 194,388
Debtors .. .. 22,889 16,050 11,818
Cash, etc 375 96,142 100,789
£953,957 £969,443 £974,259
During the year £35,000 was clipped off
the mortgage. Stocks (up £2929) appear
at or below cost, which suggests the
existence of an inner reserve. The strong
holding of cash, etc. (up £4647), puts the
co. in a position to take prompt advantage
of any favorable trading opportunity
that might offer.
Since the close of accounts sales, after
receiving a temporary boost from spend-
ing during the Royal visit, are still run-
ning at a higher level than a year ago,
and costs are steadier than at any time
during the last decade.
At 365. 6d. (345. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 6.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div.
basis; it is an exceptionally good return
from a sound trading stock. The prefs.
at 31s. yield 5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £8 os. lOd. prefs. and
465. lid. ords.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
* * * «
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
1
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
La vina
range.
*>
Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
JL Every LAVINA has a non -
” magnetic escapement and a
17-jewel led movement.
LAViNA
WATCHES
Mi [ilia 4 iUlihtt
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
w
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo-baereee
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Too will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Insurance Supervision
BAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones; BU 8445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build*
lugs. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER. 8.A., B.Sc.,
ŵ
1953 ANNUAL REPORT
SPECIAL FEATURES
BONUS RATE
SUBSTANTIALLY
INCREASED
PAID TO POLICYHOLDERS DURING YEAR
£5,861,374
TOTAL FUNDS
to provide future benefits to Policyholders
£85,006,171
PURELY MUTUAL • NO SHAREHOLDERS
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
36in.
' -V.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water biters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
6UTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W,
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
Lincoln Investments
Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales)
* Registered Office: 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
A SAFE INVESTMENT
£50,000 7 p.c. Registered
Mortgage Debenture
Issue at par (£5O)
Asset Backing £169/4/4 for each £5O
Currency —5, 10 or 15 Years
at the option of the applicant
Lincoln Investments Ltd. have the privilege of financing the Credit
Plan of their associated company, St. George Motor Industries Ltd.
Prospectus may be obtained from Registered Office,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 5118, M 6452
ISSUE NOW OPEN
For Public information this is not a prospectus and does not constitute an invitation
to the public to subscribe for the debentures mentioned herein.
7%
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
Operating in the Taiping
Valley (Malaya), the co. got two
of its dredges into operation
again in 1947. Since then earn-
ings have kept in step with the
market for the metal and treat-
ment and recovery costs and
taxation.
Last year was the most difficult
Malayan dredgers have experi-
enced since repossession of their
undertakings after the Jap
occupation. Rising costs bit
deeply into attenuated takings,
following a sharp fall in the price
of the metal. Here are Larut’s
post-war performances:
Recovered
Year, Treated, t. 0., Costs,* Profit.
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. c.y. £
1948 . . 4255 841.43 6.86 d. 92,460
1949 . . 4553 1000.48 7.66 d. 107,986
1950 . 3873 854.11 8.42 d. 145,222
1951 . . 4062 881.84 10.42 d. 225,472
1952 . . 4095 713.75 11.32 d. 126,159
1953 . . 8660 684.29 12.16 d. 48,057
* Treatment.
Last year’s drop in yardage and
in recovery of t.o. was due to
dredge-stoppages for repairs, etc.
The ore recovered (assay 74.1
p.c.) was equal to 506.78 tons
(down 23.94 tons) metallic tin.
Average price realised for the
metal was £677.6 (do\yn £265.2)
per ton. Excluding provision
for taxation (£13,000, down
£45,955), but including all other
charges, costs per ton of metal
were £574 (up £39.8), leaving
the profit per ton at £103.6
(down £225.6).
London average spot price of
tin for 1953 was £730.7 (down
£233.8) per ton. The difference
between this figure and that
realised by the co. mainly repre-
sents Government export duty
(£103.6 per ton) and smelter and
handling charges.
The £48,057 (down £78,102) of
profit was equal to 16 p.c. on the
£300,000 of capital as against
42 p.c. and 75 p.c. for the two
preceding years. After deducting
30 p.c. Malayan tax, the div. was
lowered from 42 p.c. to 14 p.c.
Finances are flush. At Dec. 31
last 'there were current assets
totalling £457,598 (£315,385 of*it
in cash) to meet outside liabilities
(including the div.) of £54,353.
Most heartening feature in the
outlook is the recent recovery in
the price of tin. The London
average advanced from £654.7
for January to £720.3 for March,
due partly to technical factors,
but mainly to a change in
American sentiment. The U.S.
refusal to sign the proposed
international tin agreement has
been tempered by an attitude of
benevolent neutrality.
On Sydney ’Change the co. s
f.-p. ss. shares are priced at
14s. 6d. as against 18s. a year ago.
Lead and Zinc
The market for metals is,
and always has been, sensi-
tive to international develop-
ments. The trend of events in
Indo-China, and U.S. policy in
connection therewith, have re-
sulted in an all-round strengthen-
ing of prices on the London
metal exchange. Here are aver-
ages for lead and zinc for the
three years to June 30, 1953, and
since ;
, Average Price >,
Lead. Zinc.
£S. £S.
Year to SO/6/’5l. .135 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52. . 167 10 11 183 14 3
Year to 30/6/’53. . 102 0 7 98 510
Nine months to
31/3/’54 .. 90 7 0 73 3 0
Early last month the U.S. Ad-
ministration announced a new
programme for stockpiling
metals, including lead and zinc.
For Feb., 1954, lead averaged
£SB2 12s. lOd. and zinc
£S72 4s. 4d. On April 28 the
figures were £S94 2s. 6d. and
£S97 2s. 6d. respectively.
Reaction on the local share-
market was a lengthening of
bids for scrip in the big lead-
zinc mines at the Barrier. A lift
in the interim div. announced by
North Broken Hill —2s. 6d. per
ss. share as against 2s. a year
ago—helped, too. Broken Hill
South maintained its interim at
3s. per ss. share. Over the last
four weeks North’s shares ad-
vanced from 725. 6d. to 765.,
and South’s from 58s. to 595.
* * * •
The clash of personalities on
Howard Smith’s board (B.
14/4/’54) led to a poll for the
election of two directors, the re-
sults of which had not been an-
nounced when the “Wild Cat”
went to press. However, state-
ments at the annual meeting con-
cerning proxies held indicated
that the two retiring directors
(J. D. Fell and D. B. Reid) were
likely to be defeated by two new
nominees (W. Howard-Smith and
J. D. McLarty) representing the
Howard-Smith family interests.
Two other directors (A. Spain
and N. L. Cowper) have indi-
cated that they might resign if
the new nominees, whom they
vigorously opposed, were elected.
In the event of such resignations,
the board would then consist of
A. Howard-Smith, W. Howard-
Smith and J. D. McLarty, Mr.
A. Howard-Smith has been a
director since 1914, when the co.
was reconstructed and the ords.
received a large bonus share-
issue. The co.’s articles provide
for a board with a minimum of
three and a maximum of five
directors.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” writes: Share-
holders in Blue Spec, W.A. (B.
28/4/’54) would like a lot more
definite information than is con-
tained in the board’s “notice to
shareholders” of April 15 last.
Assuming the new capital asked
for is subscribed: How long will
it take to “rehabilitate” the
undertaking? What will be the
cost? What will ore throughput
and production of concentrates
be when the job is complete?
Many shareholders would also
like to know something about
why powerhouse equipment
was allowed to get into “a run-
down condition,” and why
“complete” rewiring of the
power-house switchboard is
necessary. Nothing is said about
the cost of removing the flota-
tion-plant from Nullagine on
the far-away Pilbara field
to Perth, or whether premises
at Perth are to be bought
or rented, nor is the co.’s
present financial position stated.
It is claimed that most of the old
staff have left the mine and have
been replaced by a new and
“efficient” Organisation. The
claim to efficiency would be
more convincing if it was backed
by a statement of performances,
or results. No doubt these and
other questions will be cleared-
up at the meeting of share-
holders on May 6. Meanwhile,
shareholders are unable to make
a detailed examination of the
facts.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Those who saw young Sydney girl
Kathleen Gorham dance before she went
overseas knew her to be a vital dancer ;
those who saw her dance the name-role
in “Giselle” at Her Majesty’s Theatre
recently saw she had gained poise, dis-
tinction and grace and had become a true
ballerina. In “Giselle” she danced like
thistledown and acted brilliantly in both
the first- and second-half. She thoroughly
deserved the ovation she received at the
conclusion of the ballet.
The premiere of “Giselle” was given to
a packed house. Mrs. Frank Tait,
who teamed a black, pink-spider-web-
patterned skirt with a black top,
was with her husband and a party
of friends. Others in the large
audience were Mrs. John Carrodus,
whose ballerina frock was of black
and cyclamen lame, and Mrs. “Bing”
Molyneux, wearing a sheath frock of
chalk-white crepe, topped with a match-
ing tailored jacket. Lady McConnan
(who was with Sir Leslie) chose a pale-
pink tulle gown, with the bodice em-
broidered with pink and opalescent cabo-
chon pearls,
☆ ☆
Deep-blue and gold, the school colors,
were used in floral arrangements to decor-
ate the Royale Ballroom for the annual
Loreto Bali. Seventeen debutantes, wear-
ing individual white gowns, were pre-
sented to the president of the Loreto Old
Girls’ Association, Mrs. Anthony Kelly,
and Dr. Kelly. Mrs. Kelly wore a lovely
gown in deep-wine-red and pink tones,
the bodice of pale-pink lace and the full
skirt of deeper-pink shot-faille. With it
was worn a sash stole of deep-burgundy
faille with pink roses in a loop at the
waist.
Mrs. Roy Dobson, president of the
Mary’s Mount section of the Loreto Old
Girls’ Association, came from Ballarat
for the ball, at which seven Mary’s Mount
debutantes were among those presented.
In the official party were Mr. and Mrs.
John Dynon, she wearing a pastel-blue
taffeta gown and matching tulle stole,
and Dr. and Mrs. Desmond Hollywood,
her lovely -gown being of orchid-pink
faille with the skirt featuring a back panel
of grey shot-faille and the bodice made
with a diamente-studded halter-neckline.
Among the thousand dancers were
Wing-Commander Peter Parker and his
wife; she chose midnight-blue lace for
her full-skirted gown, with the strapless
bodice dotted with midnight-blue sequins.
Dr. and Mrs. W. Calanchini brought a
large party; she chose a bronze and
emerald-green tulle gown, with the strap-
less top massed with bronze sequins. In
the party were Mrs. John Mullany,
wearing a slim sheath-gown of scarlet
satin; Mrs. Paul Rowan, her white satin
gown patterned in multicolored flowers ;
Mrs. Leslie Smith, whose choice was
emerald-green lace mounted on pale-
green satin; and Mrs. Leo Cantwell,
whose pale-blue tulle gown was appliqued
with blue guipure-lace motifs.
* * ☆
Margaret Mellor, of Rosanna, now on
her way to England in the Stratheden,
was chosen by the Federal Council of
the Girl Guides’ Association to represent
Australia in Norway, where she will spend
three months as an exchange Guide-
trainer. This exchange system was begun
two years ago by the World Bureau of
the World Association of Girl Guides and
Girl Scouts, but this is the first time Aus-
tralia has participated in it. Next year
a girl from Norway will spend a similar
period here. Margaret was a herd-tester
with the Women’s Land Army during the
war, and since then has been with the
Werribee State Research Farm.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three theatrical first-nights in one week
added variety to the local scene. First
night of the gay and sparkling “Bell,
Book and Candle” was tops, for this
newly-formed professional company who
have taken over the Arrow Theatre kept
the play moving. In the audience were
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Wootton; Lady
Linton, accompanied by her son and
daughter-in-law, the Dick Lintons; Mrs.
“Jimsie” Ross, who came from Sydney
for the opening night; Mrs. Athol Shmith,
Loveday Hills and Dorothy O’Keefe.
Hostesses were Joan Cunliff, who wore
a lovely gown of silver-grey Chantilly
lace, and Betty Eames, who chose a
bodice of black lace, sequin-trimmed,
and teamed it with a black faille skirt.
A short black Persian-lamb jacket over
black was worn by Mrs. John Bell,
who was with her sister, Peggy Tellick,
whoso lovely emerald-green coat was
worn with a black pillbox hat.
Jessica Noad is a very beguiling witch
in "Bell, Book and Candle," the lovely
gowns she wears being by Hall Ludlow.
Jessica cominenced her stage career by
touring Queensland at a very youthful
age in "Claudia," "Fresh Fields" and
"The Patsy." After appearing in J. C.
Williamson productions in Sydney, she
joined the Minerva Theatre. She came
to this city and appeared in “The Wins-
low Boy." Then she went to New Zea-
land. and so on to London. She was
leading lady with the Playhouse Theatre,
Newcastle {Eng-), for two years, and she
also appeared in television. Returning
home, she appeared with Jessie Matthews
in “Larger Than Life.” Just prior to
becoming a member of Spotlight Theatre
Productions, Jessica had completed her
second Victorian tour for the Council
of Adult Education. Alexandra Lee
(Sydney) photo.
ẃ
SYDNEY
At the opening of the 1954 C.W.A. Con-
ference by Sir John Northcott, when 800
delegates and as many visitors from
sister-organisations assembled in the
Town Hall, his Excellency referred to the
great work done by women during the
recent floods and said that no organisa-
tion could get very far without a women’s
auxiliary. He recalled Dame Enid Lyons’s
address from the previous year “when
she told us how inferior men were.
“Since then,” said his Excellency, “I’ve
developed an inferiority complex that
I’ve never got over.”
In her annual report the president of
the C.W.A., Mrs. W. H. Cullen,
announced that the Ruth Fairfax House
at Merewether was scheduled to be
opened on August 11 and that a house
in Greenknowe-avenue, Pott’s Point, had
been purchased for £IB,OOO. It was to
be used for a C.W.A. residential club,
and it stood in large suitable for
the building of administrative-offices,
handicraft-rooms, meeting-rooms, etc.
Help for the mentally ill was one of
the works of the C.W.A., said Mrs.
Cullen, and it was hoped to try to change
the public’s attitude to mental illness
generally. Christmas presents were given
to children afflicted in this way whose par-
ents have forgotten them, and to other
mental patients who never receive a
present or welcome a visitor. It is hoped
that a member of the C.W.A, would be
appointed to the Board of Visitors of
Mental Hospitals in the future.
Mrs. Cullen also exhorted members to
go out of their way to help teachers and
nurses in country towns to make ffiends
and to have a happy and a social life, to
befriend the students from Asia who are
studying here and invite them into their
homes, and to help migrants to settle
happily in our midst.
Guest-speaker of the day was Dame
Pattie Menzies, who spoke of her visits
to the outback and of the wonderful
women she met there. “During the last
two weeks,” said Dame Pattie, “it has
been as if an icy hand had come out
and touched us on the shoulder. We
should take stock of ourselves and be
thankful for the wonderful country we
live in.”
Sir Charles Lloyd Jones presented the
Challenge Cup which is awarded each
year to the branch with the greatest pro-
portional increase in membership. On
this occasion it was won by Molong,
which increased membership from 38 to
147, or 286 p.c. The runner-up was the
Norfolk Island branch. Mrs. W. M. Arm-
strong, who accepted the Cup on behalf
of Molohg branch, said that the increase
was almost entirely due to canvassing.
“People,” she said, “are Just waiting to
be asked.”
Mrs. Ian Potts, who is well-known in
the world of jashion as Miss Judy Barra-
clough, was one of the judges at the
Models and Photographers' Ball Held at
the Trocadero last week in oid of the
Smith Family. Judged the "model" for
1954 was Elyane Evrard, and June Fin-
layson was chosen as best "potential"
model. Photograph by Dorothy Welding.
ŵ
the stars and in sight of the glittering
harbor. President of the legion, Mr.
Harry Mitchell, thanked Mrs. D. Youdale
for her organisation of the party on
behalf of the society, which helped nearly
2700 ex-service people during 1953. Those
who came along to the gathering included
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Browne, the
Count and Countess Pietrasante Sau-
vaigue, Mr. and Mrs. Ken Youdale, Mrs.
G. C. A. Bernays, Mr. and Mrs. W. J.
Sinclair.
* * *
The marriage of Joy Calder, younger
daughter of the Rev. John Calder, to
Arcjiie Pirie at St. Peter’s Presbyterian
Church, North Sydney, was attended by
the bridegroom’s two sisters from Glas-
gow, Mrs. L. Kerr and Mrs. S. Slaughter,
and his sister and brother-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. A. Webster, from Ceylon. The
bride wore her mother’s wedding-dress of
white satin and honiton-lace. Full-
length and trained, with an off-the-
shoulder neckline and puff-sleeves, it had
had to be altered only slightly to bring it
right up to date. With it she wore a
white tulle veil with lily-of-the-valley
and carried white tuberoses, gardenia and
tiny roses. Her sister, Mrs. Ruve Cropley,
was matron-of-honor ; she wore pale-
pink satin and a spray of pink lilac in
her hair. After the ceremony, which was
performed by the Rev. Duncan Mc-
Diarmid, of Hunter’s Hill, a reception was
held at Usher’s, <■
☆ ☆ *
Previews of pictures are becoming
quite a popular way of raising money for
good causes, and last Wednesday about
70 friends of the Sub-normal Children’s
Association gathered at the theatrette of
Universal Pictures to see the delightful
comedy of Lancashire in the 1880’s,
“Hobson’s Choice.” Welcomed by the
president of the association, Mrs. Conrad
Horley, and the secretary, Mrs. Leo
Lister, were the guests-of-honor, the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Aider-
man and Mrs. P. D. Hills), and among
those present were Mr. and Mrs.
Chauvel, Madame Roberto Regala, Mr.
and Mrs. Keith Morris, Barry Morris and
Janet Plowman, Alison and John Dean,
Mrs. M. McDermott and Mrs. Arthur
Morphy.
* ☆ *
The first 1954 function of the Aus-
tral! an-American Association (Women’s
Section) was a reception held at Prince’s
in honor of Mrs. Amos Peaslee, wife of
the U.S. Ambassador, at which 200 guests
were greeted by the president, Mrs. Flor-
ence Taylor, who presented to Mrs.
Peaslee a shoulder-posy of three
enormous purple cattleya orchids—quite
the most “fabulous” shoulder-posy seen
in these parts for some time.
The wives of many members of the
consular corps were present, including
Mrs. Donald Smith, Mrs. F. H. Hergel,
Mrs. S. S. Klingenberg and Madame R.
Regala, who wore a very striking dress
and jacket of white grosgrain splashed
all over with black Dalmatian spots.
Theatrical personalities Evie Hayes and
Gladys Moncrieff were there. Mrs. lan
Jacoby sang with accompaniments by
Mrs. H. H. Robinson. Among those who
came along to greet Mrs. Peaslee were
Dame Mary Hughes, Lady Harrison,
Lady Gordon, Lady Hudson Fysh, Mrs.
R, Muculicie-Rodd, Lady Braddon, Mrs.
Roy McKerihan, Lady Plowman, Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn, Mrs, Barbara Bennett,
Mrs. M. Hawley, Mrs. E. S. Scorfield and
Mrs. L. Janes.
☆ ☆ *
Prizes for the Black-and-White Ball,
always sumptuous, include a unique one
this year presented by Mr. R. H. Allen,
whose wife is president of the ball-com-
mittee. It is a parcel of 100 shares in a
new oil company and may represent un-
told wealth to the winner. Journeyings
abroad have rather depleted the commit-
tee this year, and leave of absence has
been granted to quite a few members,
including Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, Mrs.
Evelyn Crossing, Mrs. Ralph Doyle, Mrs.
B. Furber, Mrs, O. Ireland, Mrs. Gordon
Jacques, Mrs. W. Mcßae, Mrs. John
Human, Mrs, Noel Vincent and vice-
president Mrs. Alexis Albert, who will
be returning shortly.
* ☆ ☆
It is rather disappointing to learn that
Solomon, the great pianist who has been
enchanting Sydney audiences, and who
sounds from his name as though he
should at least have a multiplicity of
wives, does not even have one.


Public Notice
I, BEEISLAV SINKOVIC. of Yugoslav
nationality, born at Oskorusno, Yugo-
slavia, resident 5 years in Australia, now
residing at 14-18 Chalmers Street, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
WILL JIM (or JAMES) WHITE and his
brother WILLIE (or WILLIAM) WHITE,
or their children, communicate with the
DISTEIOT PUBLIC TEUSTEE. Albert
Street, Auckland, New Zealand, re the
estate of their brother PEECIVAL CLIVE
WHITE, who died at Henderson, New
Zealand, on Bth December, 1953, and was
a son of MAEY JANE WHITE and brother
of MAEY (or MAUD) WHITE? Friends
of the persons advertised for are re-
quested to bring this advertisement to
their notice.
Divorce Notice
TO ALLAN GEOEGE OEAGO formerly of
Nedlands Western Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ZEDA CEAGO
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth within Thirty clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court may pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 23rd day of April, 1954. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Eegistrar.
MESSES. HAEDWICK, GIBSON & GIB-
SON, of Victoria House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
ẅ
iiii
p
SS*
m
m, chisowE
is SOMETHING
louj OF THE BOX
It is the only treatment of its
kind available in Australia—the
only treatment containing COL-
CHICUM, GUIACOL and
APIUM in a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints.
For mild attacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
ment. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensationall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL, 17/6 LARGE, 30/-
Or by mail from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford
Street, Sydney.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Solomon
The English pianist has been
demonstrating in the series of
Sydney recitals with which he
opened his second Australian
tour that not only is he a stylist
and a technician par excellence,
but that as an interpretative artist
he has a sure place among the
handful of the world’s best.
Everything he plays, whether it
be a titanic work, such as the
Beethoven Sonata Op. 111, or a
miniature prelude, is accorded
the same impeccable taste in
playing, the careful shaping of
the structure, the same phrasing-
perfection. Where tonal masses
are to be built-up for a
shattering climax they are
achieved with the strength con-
centrated in wrist and hand ; the
biceps and the thumping, as well
as the cheap mannerisms,
Solomon leaves to the lesser
pianist.
The greatest sonata in the
series, the Beethoven Op. 111,
the Master’s final essay in the
form, became under Solomon’s
fingers the pinnacle of grandeur
in sound, the sweeping maestoso
of great power, and the incom-
parable arietta an expression of
the composer’s resignation to
death. It was playing of great
beauty.
As a contrast there was the
Sonata Op. 2 No. 3—the young,
carefree Beethoven. This work
is joyous, brilliant, with a lovely
adagio and a final movement of
captivating rhythm in which one
hand chases the other sportively
up and down the beyboard.
There was a Mozart sonata,
the D Major, K 576, all elegance
and purity, marked by fine sono-
rities in the left hand ; Schubert’s
A Minor, Op. 143, ranging from
sublimity in the opening move-
ment, warm tenderness in the
andante to an exhilarating finale
in which the pianist made the
control of rushing triplets seem
a thing of ridiculous ease.
There were three Bach pre-
ludes and fugues, one a tran-
scription by Liszt (the A Minor)
holding the balance neatly be-
tween Bach’s mathematics and
Liszt’s showiness.
Chopin was represented by the
B Flat Minor Sonata, dominated
by the Funeral March, and by
the four Ballades, which com-
prise some of the Pole’s most
revealing “personal” music. The
Nocturne in D was fragile as
butterfly-wings.
For good measure there were
also Schumann’s “Scenes from
Childhood,” played with a per-
fect feeling for their inherent
imagery and poetry, three
vibrant Rachmaninoff Preludes,
and, to show that he can handle
fireworks as efficiently as every
other kind, Liszt’s Mephisto
Waltz, through the stupendous
technical difficulties of which he
swept with magnificent elan.
♦♦♦ 4+ 4+
Two Menotti Operas
The double-bill presented at
the Con. by the Sydney Opera
Group “The Medium” and
“The Telephone,” by the com-
poser of “The Consul” —was
quite meritorious, the minor
blemishes being chiefly of pro-
duction and decor.
In “The Medium,” a two-act
opera, Menotti has followed gen-
erally the pattern he established
in “The Consul” by building an
intense drama on a feature of
modern life. In this case a
charlatan who conducts spiritual-
istic seances, battening on
credulous bereaved people, is
badly shaken when, during one
of them, what she thinks is a
ghostly hand touches her. She
suddenly develops a conscience
“Hold are the mossies here?”
over the dumb, half-witted boy
she has cruelly used as her assist-
ant, with her young daughter, in
faking supernatural appearances.
Tragedy supervenes when her
taut nerves finally snap.
Menotti has salted the drama
with his usual deft touches of
irony, as, for instance, where the
penitent medium tries to debunk
herself to her clients and they
maintain, despite the proof she
offers, a touching faith in her
genuineness.
It is very good lyric theatre,
with tension kept high, and with
the element of the supernatural
always outweighing every other
factor. As in “The Consul,”
Menotti’s score is harsh and un-
compromising, except for a
couple of sequences in which
writing of some gracefulness in-
trudes ; yet it all fits the action.
The production was notable
for a remarkably sustained piece
of work by John Weiner as the
dumb half-wit. Judith Staff
brought intensity of singing and
acting to the title-role, her work
being marred only by a too-
stiff deportment. Rhonney
Webber, as the daughter, warmed
to her role after an indifferent
beginning, her later songs being
delivered with feeling and good
tone. The three clients were Rae
Candy, Joy Stapleton and Bruce
Robertson.
“The Telephone,” a short one-
acter, is a witty skit about a
telephone-addict whose impatient
lover has to battle hard against
the ever-ringing tyrant of modern
life to declare his suit. Marie
Tysoe, whose soprano has im-
proved greatly, and baritone
Kevin Mills handled the humor
pleasantly.
Both operas were conducted
by George Humphrey.
* ♦> ❖
Eugene and Leon Goossens
The brothers Goossens made
their first Australian appearance
together at Brisbane’s first sub-
scription-concert in a pro-
gramme that ranged from
familiar Mozart to new English
composer Peter Racine Fricker,
discovered for audiences in this
country by Eugene Goossens on
his recent visit abroad.
The richness of Leon Goos-
sens’s oboe tone has become a
legend in his own time, one
which his personal appearances
here will confirm. His perform-
ance of Mozart’s C Major Con-
certo had the warmth usually
associated with fine-string play-
ing, as well as the familiar vir-
tuosity of his gramophone-
records. The only regret pos-
sible is that the concerto (usually
heard as the Flute Concerto in
D) makes so many demands on
the player’s agility that there are
few opportunities for the lovely
cantabile playing which suits the
oboe so well.
The themes of the Fricker
Symphony were so short—
hardly more than orchestral
ejaculations—that it was ex-
tremely difficult to follow
clearly what he did with them.
Even so, this young composer
uses his orchestra effectively,
and the impression was that of
listening to somebody arguing
brilliantly on a subject one
failed to understand,
Elgar’s “Cockaigne” and Wag-
ner’s “Homage March” vied
with each other iq orchestral
brilliance from opposite ends of
the programme, and under the
shaping influence of the Goos-
sens baton the variations
of Dohnanyi’s “Suite for
Orchestra” sounded worthier
than usual of the pleasant tune
which gave them birth. —
D. J. M.
4*
Kathleen Gorham
Returned from England,
Kathleen Gorham broke into
ẃ
marriage the corps de ballet had
some charming moments.
❖ ❖
Repertory
The Premiere Players, anew
group presenting only the works
of local writers, started off last
week at the 2KY Radiotorium,
Sydffly, with “Hamlet in
Shadow,” by Colin Free.
The play is a curious attempt
to translate “Hamlet” not only
into modern dress but also into
modern idiom, with modern
emphasis and ideas. Thus Ham-
let, the son of a country squire,
is not “mad and sent into Eng-
land,” but is driven crazy and
taken off to a mental-home,
whence he escapes to obey his
“compulsion” to murder his
uncle.
That the play holds the atten-
tion at all is a tribute to the
young writer’s ingenuity, con-
sidering that all the magic and
complexity of “Hamlet” disap-
pears in the process.
The production is sluggish
and unpolished, with, in the
parts of Gertrude, Laertes and
Horatio, some pretty dreadful
acting. Only through Moya
O’Sullivan’s Ophelia does light
and poetic quality break in,
though John Barker’s Polonius,
the comic secretary, introduces
some life and movement. John
K. Blair’s Hamlet is so oafish,
brutal and egocentric that
Horatio’s “Good-night, sweet
Prince” sounds almost ironic.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibition
The ten artists showing color
lithographs, linocuts, mezzo-
tints and drypoint etchings at
the Peter Bray Gallery in Mel-
bourne don’t lack mediums for
expression or the skill to use
them —from the technical point
of view most of them have a
considerable proficiency. What
most of them lack is something
to express.
There is some quality in the
coastal - banksia, firewood -
banksia and herons of F. Higgs,
and a quaint, nostalgic feeling
for the past in Kenneth Jack’s
“Pall Mall, Bendigo,” and
“Captain Blair’s House, Port-
land.”
Most of the others look like
the work of sophisticated adults
trying to be childlike or like
some other artist. Jennifer Pur-
nell’s “Circus” does not seem
reminiscent of Wirth’s or any
other circus, but of Toulouse-
Lautrec, while the National
Gallery purchase, “Dreaming
Women,” by Allen David, seems
a lot of lines without meaning.
Walter Gheradin’s Tasmanian
landscapes have some feeling.
Talkies
“The Master of Ballantrae”
This one is as indigestible as
a cold sausage-roll. R. L.
Stevenson’s story gives Errol
Flynn the excuse to perform in-
credible feats of derring-do, first
in Bonnie Prince Charlie’s army
against the English, and, pro-
scribed and fled to Tortugas, as
a buccaneer, which career is
marked mainly by the usual
Flynn habit of smilingly making
speeches at his opponent while
fighting for his life with a sword.
The indestructible Errol main-
tains his average of six skewers
a minute, so Hollywood is happy.
Roger Livesey’s work as his Irish
comrade-in-arms is a bright spot.
At Sydney .Mayfair.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
I RECKON you could have
heard a click, the way
Mellish and me jerked our
heads round. She’s standing.
She’s got her hands held close
into her stomach, with the
thumbs cocked up and the fingers
bent. You can’t see the pale
freckles on her face because her
face is like a flame and her hazel
eyes ain’t mild and merry no
more. Because they’re big and
wild and sort of glowing yellow.
What she makes is a female
stone-mad with us and full of
fight, and we’re going to know
it.
“You make me sick!” She
nearly screams it. “Sitting there
snarling while —while—oh, you
men! I don’t know how women
put up with it! Glaring at one
another. Acting like children!”
She spins and makes a run for
the door. I go out of that chair
like a scalded cat and hit the
door ahead of her by a whisker.
My arm is across the door and
she has to stop.
“All right, kid,” I says, cool
because she’s on fire and some-
body got to cool her. “All
right. Guess I had it coming. So
it makes you sick. Makes me
sick, too, because it makes you
sick. That makes me a heel, I’d
say. All right, so I’m a heel and
you put up dough for me and
maybe I ain’t worth it. But you
ought to tell me about that
dough.”
The fire dies down and she
cools off and presently she’s ice,
standing there. She’s ice and the
yellow gone from her hazel eyes
but the ice gleams in them. Then
her face goes kind of tired and
her body loosens and she gives a
little shake of her head.
“I don’t know if you’ll under-
stand,” she says.
“I can try,”
“It’s partly because of poor
Mr. Carson and—and every-
thing.” She turns away and goes
and sits down again. So do I.
Mellish hasn’t moved from his
desk. Joyce puts a hand to her
cheek and looks at the floor.
“When he sent for me and T
came he seemed so happy and
full of spirits. But for the last
two or three days he became so
quiet and—and a little grumpy.
He was worried. I could see he
was worried. I’ve been working
for him for nearly three years.
That day, that morning, before
he died, he seemed upset about
something. That was when he
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any. person alive or dead.
dictated the telegram to you.
After he did that he said he was
going to Allendale. He dictated
a note to be sent to you at the
airport. Did you get it?”
“I got it.”
“Well, I knew what was in the
note. About you keeping clear
of him, I mean. Forgive me,
Del, I’ve told Mr. Mellish about
it. You do understand why,
don’t you?”
“You wanted him to help me,
so you told him?”
“Yes. I had to tell him every-
thing, of course. It was after we
heard about the policeman being
shot. So, in the end, Mr, Mellish
said he would and I sent for the
money to get you out. I had to
send for it, that’s why it took so
long.”
“How much?”
She looks away.
“It was three-hundred-and-
eighty pounds. It was all I had
saved. Mr. Mellish arranged the
balance.”
She stops talking and puts her
hands together and looks at me.
It’s like she’s pleading with me.
“I just know,” she says, “that
something was wrong and Mr.
Carson was worried. I just know
that’s why he sent for you. 1
remember his face. It was that
ẁ
He walks over and hands them
to me. He don’t say a word.
I shove ’em in my pocket. I
go over and take Joyce’s coppery
head in my hands, gentle, and
turn it and look in her eyes. She
looks back at me, through the
tears, and what I see is something
I can’t tell about, only it’s what a
man sees only about twice in his
life —if he’s lucky. I stand there
and let it soak into me and then
I bend down and kiss her.
“I’ll fix it, kid,” I tell her, “if
I got to bust this town apart.”
Then I grab my hat and go out
of there.
I don’t look at Mellish and he
don’t say a word.
I go out of there. I know I
been talking big and I got
nothing but an idea. Just one
idea. I’m on bail on a murder
charge and I’ll be for it five weeks
from now, and all I got is twenty
frogskins and this idea.
You wouldn’t call it much of
an idea, but it’s better than no
idea at all.
7. Mac and Bert
AT a cafe I get something to
eat and chew what they bring
me and chew on the idea.
Carson was worried and he was
going to some place called Allen-
dale. Joyce don’t know why
he was going to Allendale. She
don’t know why he sent for me
or why he left that note telling
me not to contact him openly.
But he was going to Allendale
and he was worried and he didn’t
want me to contact him openly.
Way the truckie told about the
accident Carson had been to
Allendale and was heading back
for Murrayford when the truckie
found him with his head under
the wheel-hub. So if what
Mitchell says about it being no
accident is the straight-griffin
Carson got himself killed after
going to Allendale. Could be a
little trip to Allendale, just to
kind of look the place over and
see if anyone there knew Carson,
might help.
Jardine?
Jardine shot himself in my
room. He was looking for some-
thing. He didn’t find it because
it wasn’t there. So he blows his
top. With a police bullet he
blows his top and there’s got to
be a reason for that. There’s got
to be a reason for him searching
my room and then blowing him-
self apart. “All right, Delaney,”
he says and his voice like he’s
tired and giving up, and then he
does it.
All right.
So maybe there’s a hook-up
somewhere. Way it looks there's
got to be a hook-up. But you’re
playing a hand you got to take
the cards as they come. If there’s
a hook-up with Jardine and
Carson it’s got to start with
Carson. It’s got to start with
Carson being worried just before
he goes to Allendale and after
Allendale he gets killed and this
Mitchell pulls me out of bed at
three o’clock in the morning.
“You tell the police,” Mitchell
says, “and you scare the others
off.” I tell the police and Jardine
calls it dazzle-dust and wants to
run me in and the next thing is
Jardine with his head blown open
in my room and this McLardie
trying to pin it on me.
So I get this idea about Allen-
dale and that’ll do to open the
betting with. Because there’s
anything at Allendale it could
lead to what Carson was worried
about and maybe to Mitchell,
and maybe to Jardine.
So I shove Jardine out of my
mind and start thinking about
Allendale.
There’s more ways than one
of killing a cat and that’s the
way it is with Allendale. Igo
out there as just plain Delaney
asking fool questions I’ll get fool
answers and maybe a bump on
the noggin, if Mitchell’s got it
•right. But I go out there show-
ing dough and make like I know
all about C.Pson maybe some
little bird will chirrup.
I go out of the cafe and to a
public phone and call Mellish’s
number and ask for Joyce
Martin.
“Oh, Del, you just caught me.
1 was just going out. Where
are you? Why did you rush off
like”
“Listen, kid. You own that
blue sedan?”
“Oh, no. It’s —it was Mr.
Carson’s.”
“O.K. Now listen.. We got
to play this the hard way. Means
you and me keep apart a little.
Means you got to trust me
and”
“Del, I do trust you. Really,
I do.”
“O.K. I know the police like
I reckon I do, they’ll be watch-
ing me and they’ll keep a peeper
or two on you. That’s all right.
What you don’t know you can’t
tell ’em. Get it?”
“I think so.”
“Right. If Carson wasn’t an
accident means someone else will
be watching, too. Get it?”
“Yes. And I’m awfully
scared.”
“O.K. You heard about the
inquest on Carson?”
“Yes. It’s this afternoon.”
“O.K. I won’t be there.
Because they won’t want me.
They’ll want you. Because you
was his secretary. They”
“Yes. Mr. Mellish says they’ll
want me.”
“Listen, kid. Don’t tell ’em
a thing more than you have to.
Answer the questions, but that’s
all.”
“I see. But, Del, what about
you”
“Listen. Take the car, juice it
up and leave it just outside the
Crown Hotel with the key in.
Just leave it there and go away.
You got it?”
“But, Del, what”
“You don’t know nothing they
can’t ask you nothing. You said
you trust me.”
“I do. I do.”
“Get the car outside the Crown
quick as you can.”
I hung up before she could
say anything. Because I didn’t
want her to start thinking and
fretting and maybe get herself
worked up,
I didn’t have to go to my room
at the Crown for my bag. Be-
cause the manager’s got it. He’s
got it and he sits behind his
desk and tells me, polite, that
owing to —er —certain develop-
ments he finds that he requires
my room and he’s so sorry but
he hasn’t another room in the
place.
“O.K. So I’m up for murder
and you don’t want nobody like
me round?”
“Well —er”
“I don’t want no trouble with
you, just like you don’t want
none with me. So gimme the bag
and shut up.”
He gives me the bag and shuts
up. The car is outside and I get
in it and move off. I cruise along
the main street and get out of the
shopping district and among
houses. I hail a kid on a bike.
“You know the way to Allen-
dale?”
He tells me. I turn west and
come to a road-junction with
road signs. One sign points
north-west and reads, collier
highway. Underneath the big
letters small letters read: Willets
7 m., Allendale 13 m., Clare
34 m., Ivanhoe 167 m., Barrier
342 m.
I switch off the engine and
write a note to Mellish. To tell
him I’ll be at Allendale. I’ll post
it at Willets. Because I’m on
bail and the police ask him where
I am he’s got to have an answer.
I write some more, telling him
I’ll phone once a day. I address
the envelope and put it in the
glove-box, ready for Willets.
Then I get the old newspaper I
brought with me and begin fold-
ing it and tearing it into
rectangles. When I got all the
rectangles I can get I shake them
together and roll them tight.
Then I get out my frogskins.
I got twenty-eight of them,
twenty I got from Mellish and
eight of my own. I roll them
tight round the newspaper and
slip a rubber band over the roll
and it looks like I got maybe
two-hundred. It’s an old trick.
People all over the place been
conned by a few real notes roun
a core of dummies. Old tricks
still work. Because somehow
people get dazzled when they
see big money. I’m Delaney
and I get to Allendale and there s
someone there maybe knows
about Carson they got to know
about me. They’ll know about
WHAT HAS HAPPENED
In Murrayford, where the
mysterious Mitchell keeps insist-
ing by phorte-calls that Delaney’s
employer, Carson, has been
murdered, Delaney surprises
Detective Jardine in the act of
searching through his things, and
is dumbfounded when Jardine
draws a revolver and shoots
himself. Delaney is arrested and
charged with killing Jardine.
The intervention of Sgt. Arentz
prevents Inspector McLardie
from third-degreeing Delaney.
Delaney appeals to Carson’s
solicitor, Mellish, but Mellish
apparently believes Delaney
guilty. Brought before the
court, Delaney is remanded on
bail provided by Joyce Martin,
Carson’s secretary, who has won
Mellish over again. Delaney and
Mellish are heatedly arguing
when Joyce Martin intervenes.


me coming to Murrayford to
work with Carson, but they
won’t know how far I’m in with
Carson.
Carson went to Allendale and
didn’t want me to contact him
openly and he gets killed. He
was worried. The bet is he was
in something—something he
wanted me in on, and it’s mixed
up with this Allendale. So I go
into Allendale and they know
I’m Carson’s man and I’m
careless enough to show a roll of
notes it maybe starts something.
I’m sitting there in the blue
sedan, pulled off the road on the
grass, and just about to start the
engine when I hear something
and look round.
There’s five police motor-cycle
riders, one leading and the others
two abreast behind. They’re
passing me and got me cut off
from the road before I can move,
so I stay put. There’s a motor-
hearse goes past. Two men in it
The driver all in black and wear-
ing a top-hat and beside him
another cove dressed the same.
I know him. It’s Honey, the
tall gink I first bumped at the
airport and afterwards in
Carson’s room and who was in
the court when I was charged.
The tall gink always starts my
memory-bells ringing. They
ring now. He sits there in his
black frock-coat and top-hat and
stares straight ahead. Maybe he
don’t know it’s me sitting there,
but I know him and now he
makes sense.
Because next thing there’s a
big black mourning coach pass-
ing and on the side, in little gold
letters, it says:
ALBERT J. HONEY
FUNERAL PARLOURS
MURRAYFORD
It makes sense. Because that’s
why he was hanging round
Carson’s room and why he was
interested in Jardine. Anybody
dead in Murrayford interests
Albert J. Honey. So that part
makes sense, but it don’t give me
no reason why the bells should
ring. Because I never met no
funeral-parlors named Honey
that I know of.
I took my hat off when I see
the hearse. Then it hits me I
really know something about this
funeral. Because next there’s a
big police prowl-car and in it is
McLardie and Keesing and
Dickens. They give me the steel
gaze as they go past, and it hits
me.
Because this is poor old Jardine
on his last beat!
It gives me a knock and I
look after the hearse and feel
bad. Because he was old and
something broke him and I had
to see it. McLardie thinks he
can pin it on me and I got no
time for him or that Keesing,
But I got nothing against Jardine.
Not now. So I sit there, kind of
wishing I never come to this
town, because maybe Jardine
would be alive if I hadn’t. I’m
sitting there, and suddenly there’s
a motor-bike up alongside me
and a cop astraddle it with his
feet on the ground,
“You Delaney?”
“That’s right.”
“Detective-Inspector McLardie
hopes you won’t distress any-
body by attending the burial.”
The cop is young and fresh-
faced and some uneasy,
“You tell McLardie not to be
a bloody fool. All I done was
come out here to see it go past.
I never killed Jardine. I’m
sorry he done it, that’s all.
McLardie wants to pin it on me,
but that don’t stop me feeling
the way I do about Jardine.
Shows McLardie ain’t got much
sense he thinks I’d butt-in there,
after what he done to me.
He”
The cop don’t wait for any
more.
I sit there and watch the
funeral and see it turn off the
highway and make for a hill on
the left, where there’s a
cemetery.
Then I start-up and head for
Allendale.
Willets is one of them little
dumps. Maybe thirty houses
scattered along the highway, one
street running from the highway
to a railway-station. A pub,
store or two, hall, post-office, two
men and a dog drowsing in front
of the pub, that’s Willets. I pull
in to the side of the road by the
post-office. There’s no kerb.
Up the road a way a big road-
freighter is standing. The load
is sheeted. Looks like forty-
four-gallon drums of oil under
the'sheet. Then I get a whiff
from it. Sweet and heavy
Reminds me of when I was a
little kid and my mother used to
make hot scones and smear thick
black treacle, on them. Then I
get it.
Molasses!
Drums of molasses going
somewhere. These farmers use
it for feeding their stock. I slip
my note to Mellish in the post-
box and get in the sedan and
push on.
Up to now the country has
been level, with plenty of trees
and farms here and there. Out-
side Willets it starts to lift up a
long, low hill. The trees thin out.
I breast the hill and see another
little dump about two miles
ahead. I see it because now it’s
wide, open country. You can
see for miles. So the dump must
be Allendale.
It’s Allendale. A man tells me
it is. He’s pulling boards off one
of the houses and loading them
on a truck. He’s the only person
in the place.
Because Allendale’s a ghost-
town.
“Ain’t anybody squatted here
for ten years,” he says. “Used
to be a pottery.” He points to
some ruins and a big heap of
white mullock. “Clay petered
out. Nothing left. What there
is belongs to me. Council sold
it up for rates. Bought it for a
song. Make a few crumbs out
o’ the timber and stuff. Was
you looking for someone,
mister?”
“Yair,” I says. “But he don’t
seem to be around. Be seeing
you, chum.”
I turn the car and head back.
Allendale is a washout. That’s
that. The idea’s like the pottery,
petered out. Nothing for Carson
in Allendale. So nothing for
Delaney in Allendale. Nothing
for nobody there, except the cove
cashing-in on the remains.
I drive slow. I’m like I’m in
the middle of a big storm at sea
and ’ turning green. Because
Allendale is a ghost-town and
the idea I had is a ghost. I built
too much on that idea. I ought
to of had more sense. But the
night was dark and stormy as the
fellow says, and the idea looked
as good as a lighthouse. Only it
isn’t even a shadow. That leaves
me right off the beam because
when the idea fades the only
glimmer left is L. D. M. Mitchell.
And the cops and Mellish and me
haven’t a clue on Mitchell.
Sometimes I’m not even sure if
he sat in that plane and conned
me for a double-header rum, not
even sure I didn’t dream about
the telephone-call. Right now,
where I’m driving slow back to
Willets with the idea about
Allendale dead at my feet,
Mitchell looks just as good a
ghost as Allendale. So I head
through Willets and crawl into
Murrayford and maybe
Willets!
When I ask Joyce who Ross is
she tells me he comes from
Willets.
Two things I want right then.
Because the dead idea round my
neck ought to be shifted. 0.K.,
two things, one or both, will
shift it. A good, long, cold beer,
and a chance to smack someone
in the eye. Just for the hell of it.
So here’s Willets and there’ll be
beer in Willets and maybe the
Ross joker and maybe I do both
things.
The road-freighter with its
load of molasses is still there.
So is the smell of it. There’s an
increase in the population. The
dog still drowses, but the two
men got their eyes open. Because
there’s a plump little pigeon in a
short pink dress strutting past
them. She’s got her back to
them, but she knows they’re not
drowsing because she’s roiling
her hips the way they do to stop
a man drowsing. She fades into
a store and the men start to
slump, but half-straighten when
they see a blue sedan pull in and
stop in front of them. They
watch me get out.
When I get out the breeze is
in my face. The molasses smell
is behind me. On the breeze
there’s another smell. Sharp,
kind of pleasant, but you could
get too much of it. Makes me
think of football training and
what you smell in a gym. Where
professional pugs limber-up. I
screw up my nose. The men
watch me come in from where
there’d be a kerb if Willets had
kerbs. It’s a hot day and they’re
full of hope. They was full of
dreams watching that girl go by,
now they’re full of hope Be-
cause it’s a hot day and I’m a
stranger and get out of a blue
sedan and look like I got dough,
So they got hope. Because
they’re bums.
So they’re bums.
I don’t mind. Maybe they
know this Ross. Ross don’t
mean much to me, except I get
takdn for him and that starts me
in with the cops and Joyce and
makes her cry and draw all the
dough she’s got to bail me out.
And maybe it’d do me good to
hang one on Ross’s roving eye.
So I don’t mind the bums.
“Hot,” I tell ’em.
They brighten up.
“Yup,” one says. The other
waits. He’s cagey.
“Dry day.”
“My oath.” The other stops
being cagey.
“How would a beer go?” I ask
them.
“It’d go bloody wonderful! ”
They nearly push me into the
bar. It’s small, dark, cool. A
silent-looking man leans on the
counter reading a paper. He
shoves the paper aside, gives the
bums a cold look and looks at
me. I grin at the bums.
“What’ll it be?”
“Beer-tankard.”
“Schooner.”
“Make it two schooners and a
tankard,” I tell the silent man.
The beer comes and gets what
it deserves.
“Come again,” I says.
We take time over the next lot
“You fellows work round here?”
I ask.
The barman gives a laugh.
They ignore him.
“More or less,” they tell me.
“Know anybody named
Ross?”
They draw right inside them-
selves.
“This dump,” the barman
says, “is full of Rosses.’’ He
don’t seem pleased about it.
I turn round and put my back
to the bar counter holding my
schooner, and look out the door,
Because the barman’s my
meat. He don’t like the dump
full of Rosses and Id like to
hear about that. I don’t know
why. It’s just I’d like to hear
about it. So I don’t rush the
drink because I want the bums
to drink theirs and drift out.
“Maybe full of Rosses,” I says,
“and it sure is full of smells,
You can smell that molasses on
the truck and when you can’t
smell it you can smell”
“Rosses,” says the barman,
and cackles to himself.
“Think it’s funny, don’t you! ”
says the older bum.
“Never mind about him,” I
says. “What’s that other smell?”
“Eucalyptus,” says the barman.
“There’s a mill in back of the
hill behind the railway.”
That’s what it is, all right.
Eucalyptus. You drink it for
colds, sniff it for stuffed noses,
rub it on stiff and sore muscles,
buy it in cleaners and soaps. So
I lean there. I know about
Willets now. It’s full of Rosses
and lives on eucalyptus and
maybe molasses and got a bar-
man who don’t like Rosses. So
that’s Willets. Nothing for me
in Willets. Nothing in
because it’s a ghost-town, nothing"
in Willets because it’s a smell-
town. So Delaney better push
off and head for Murrayford
and try and get a line on this
Mitchell and
A round-faced man in khaki
overalls covered with dust and
grease comes in from the street.
He’s got the sunglare in his eyes
and can’t see who’s in the bar.
He don’t wait to get the glare
out
Because he’s full of something.
Something that excites him.
“Hey,” he lets out, “who
come in the blue sedan parked
out there? Ain’t that the car that
Carson used to drive out here
when”
Then he shuts his mouth like
it’s a trap. Because now he s got
the glare out of his eyes and he
sees there’s a stranger in there,
He sees a stranger, and it shuts
him up cold,
Something like a tickle starts
down in my feet and runs up
along my spine and into the back
of my head. It starts like a
tickle, but it s like a touch of ice
when it gets right up.
Because the way he goes silent
and stands there, gaping, and the
way the bums and the barman
stand there means the idea isn’t
dead. It got mislaid, it got off
the beam, but it isn’t dead.
It s alive and kicking, in among
the eucalyptus and molasses, in
this two-by-four dump full or
Rosses,
q LoffQlTlC
A , ...
we m the b r and it.
~ one of those frozen moments
They c °me to everybody, some
time or other. Maybe you don t
f t many, maybe you get plenty.
M e > Ive Had plenty. Because
Ive had plenty gives me the edge,
I m like a sprint runner. You re
going to win sprints means you
got to be quick out of the
starting-holes. Im out and hit-
ting my stride before the others
hear the starter s gun. „
You re just in time, f tell the
greasy man. I m busting wuh
philanthropy. I turn back m
the barman. Fill em up, 1
sa Y s -
J the greasy man.
1 y° u have,
Hes just getting his mouth
shut again. I m looking at him
and 1 m gnmung but up in the
corners round the roof I can
hear what he said. It s kind of
f oatll Jg round up there; Amt
that the car that Carson used to
drive? Too right, it s floating
ro ™d- .
7116 g reas Y man 18 a llttle red -
He shouldn’t of come in and
(( Continued on next page)
“Hey," he lets out, “who come in the blue sedan parked out there? Ain’t that the car that
Carson used to drive out here, when” Then he shuts his mouth like it’s, a trap.


More people,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on
any other tyre
When you consider that this
fact has held true for thirty-
nine years doesn’t it stand
to reason that the tyre that
gives the greatest satisfaction
to the most people is the tyre
for you to buy?
mmm/&
IH!!!!
UMlWlt'Mfj
11
mm
j Clfli
mob/viai
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ••. [•_•} HLti
2 Ir
Yearly ux 22/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)-
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
bust out with that question in
front of a stranger, and he knows
it. He don’t hear the word about
Carson echoing like I hear it, but
he hears an echo, and he’d like lo
suck the word back into himself
if he could. But that can’t be
done.
So he’s a little red and some
tangled and kind of wishing he
was somewhere else.
“Have a beer,” I says. “That’s
right about the sedan. Carson
used to drive it when he was
around. I’m Delaney. Me and
Carson was kind of partners.”
This is the way I want it. This
is the idea getting into action. I
thought Allendale was the place
for the idea. But it’s Willets.
Where the smells and the Rosses
and the pigeons in pink skirts are.
Where Carson used to come in
the blue sedan. Where he was
the night he got killed, though
he told Joyce Martin he was
going to Allendale. I got to find
out why Carson wanted me in
Murrayford and why he didn’t
want me to contact him openly.
That’s why I went to Allendale
in the blue sedan. Because I
reckoned somebody in Allendale
would spot that sedan and
remember who was in it before.
Nobody in Allendale to spot it.
Right here in Willets a greasy
man in khaki overalls spots it.
He spots it and gets excited about
it and then sights a stranger and
it stops him cold. Stops him
cold to sight a stranger.
So the idea is alive and kicking
and I’m telling them who I am.
Because I want everybody round
Willets to know I’m Delaney
and I was Carson’s partner.
Right here is where I want them
to know Who I am, and where
I want them to see that big roll
that looks like a couple of
hundred frogskins but is only
twenty-eight. Right here where
Carson used to come. Where
there’s molasses and eucalyptus
smells, and Rosses, and a bar-
man who don’t like Rosses, and
pink skirts with hip-wiggling
pigeons in them.
Because I’m not overlooking
that pigeon. Not on your life.
“Have a beer,” I says to the
greasy man, and I put a hand
in my pants pocket. There’s
enough silver there to pay for the
drinks, but I pull out a couple
of coppers and look at thepi.
“Cripes,” I says, “a man gets
through dough quick, these
days.”
I turn a little away from them
and pull that roll out and keep it
close to me like I’m trying to
hide it. I fumble it, peeling off
a note, and shove it back in my
pocket and throw the note on the
counter. I don’t look at the
Rosses or the greasy man, but I
know they see that roll.
“Yair,” I says, and I make as
if I’m worried. “Bad luck
for poor old Lloyd. You can’t
trust these motor-jacks. Liable to
slip any time. Gimme a shock,
it did. Me and Carson been
together nearly since the war.
Him” ,
“Say,” the older of the Ross
drongoes says, “that was pretty
stiff bail they hung on you, Mr.
Delaney. I was readin’ about
it in the papers. I says to Bert
here” —he nods at the other
: Ross—“by cripes, I says, they
hung pretty stiff bail on that Mr,
Delaney. You know what Bert
says?”
So I’m holding the lead, all
right. I broke out of the starting-
holes quick and I still got the
lead. Because this Ross is my
way now. He knows who I am
and he sees a roll of notes he
couldn’t jump over and he thinks
I put up that five-hundred bail
and he’s my way.
“No,” I says, picking up my
beer, “what did he say?”
He takes a big suck at his beer
and grins at me. Any dentist sees
that grin he sends for novocaine
and chalks up an order for
complete upper and lower
dentures.
“Ha, ha, ha,” he giggles. “Bert
says you ought to of got the five-
hundred for bumping the lousy
cop off.”
He giggles some more and
Bert bubbles in his beer. I look
at the barman. He isn’t laughing.
He’s looking at Bert and he isn’t
laughing. So this barman is my
meat. I got to talk to him soon.
I look round for the greasy
man. He hasn’t come up for his
beer. It’s on the counter, but he
hasn’t moved in on it.
“What’s a matter, mate?” I
says to him. “You teetotal?”
“Well —I” he starts, and
looks at the elder Ross.
“Get it into you quick.
Johnny,” says the Ross. “Then
get that load away. They’ll be
waitin’ for it.”
“0.K., Mac,” says Johnny,
moves in, takes the beer,
swallows it, nods to me, and
fades through the door.
It rocks me. Because Johnny
talks to Mac like Mac’s his boss.
I place Mac and Bert for a couple
of drongoes. Because that’s what
they look like. But Johnny has
to wait for Mac to tell him to
drink and Mac tells him to hurry
and get going.
This Willets place full of
angles. You get in one of these
places full of angles and you’re
trying to knock a corner off them
you got to watch it. So I make
like I don’t notice anything, but
I don’t forget what I see.
Yair,” I says. “Only I never
done it, see. Jardine done it him-
self, like I told the cops. Some-
thing funny about the set-up.
They pull me in and try to pin
it on me.”
What was Jardine doing in
your room?”
That’s the barman. His voice
is flat and dry.
He don’t know it, but that’s
what I been waiting for. Some-
body to ask me that.
‘ How the hell would I know,”
I says. “I suppose you read
about it in the papers?”
I know the two Rosses are
standing there, drinking this in.
But I don’t look at them. I keep
looking at the barman. Because
he s going to give me the chance
I been looking for.
“That’s right,” he says. “I
read about it in the papers.”
“They have what I done to
their camera?”
‘‘Yes, they had that, too.”
Nobody takes my picture
unless I say so. I don’t know
what Jardine was doing in my
room. It’s seven-to-four he was
looking for something. Maybe
he thought he had something on
me.”
Mac Ross says, making like it 1
don t matter much, “What would
he have on you?”
Nothing,” I says. My voice
is loud and I put on a high look.
Because I’m Delaney, on bail
for murder, carrying a roll of
notes, and Carson’s partner, and
I’m a wide lad. So I got a high
look.
“Them cops got nothing on I
me,” I says. “They got to get up
damn’ early to do that. I been
around. I ain’t been in Murray-
ford all my life. Some blokes get
a living one way, some another.
Way I get mine isn’t nobody’s
business but mine. But them
cops always butting into it.' I
run into cops before. Plenty
times. But they got nothing on
me. You know what I reckon?”
I look at the Rosses. They
don’t say anything. But they’re
watching me. Close, they’re
watching me.
“I reckon them Murrayford
cops heard of me. Cops in a lot
of places heard of me. But they
got nothing on me. So maybe
these Murrayford cops make a
report to headquarters and they
say there’s a character named
Delaney in town and what do
you know about him? Because
it’s their business to check on
strangers if the strangers look
like they may be smart. So they
word headquarters and head-
quarters sends back and says they
got nothing they can hang on
Delaney, but they know him and
would you Murrayford cops look
him over? See? So Jardine,
what he does is go to my room.
Maybe to see me. I’m not there.
So he thinks he’ll look over my
room. That’s what he’s doing
when I barge him. All I see
is somebody ratting my gear. So
I go him. Any man’d go some-
body he thought was ratting his
gear. So I go him and next thing,
blooey, he pulls a gun and blows
his head off. Them cops reckon
they got something when that
happens. So they grab me and
bung me in and put me on a
murder charge. That’s the way
it is. So X bail myself loose arid
hire a solicitor. And while he’s
working it out I reckon I’ll just
chase around and see about get-
ting my business straight, see.
Because me and Carson was
partners and he sent for me to
come up here and”
An electric siren broke loose
somewhere right then and shut
me up like I’m shot.
I stand there with my mouth
open, and the thing shrieks like
it’s one of the raid-warnings in
the war.
Mac Ross puts his tankard
down quick.
“Mill whistle,” he says. “The
boys’ll be knocking off.”
He gives me a nod and shoots
through. Bert is right on his
heels.
“Well,” I says, to the barman,
“those boys can speed when they
want.”
He’s wiping the counter. His
hard face don’t change, but his
mouth opens about a thousandth
of an inch.
“You watch your step, mate,”
he says.
I look at him. But he goes up
the other end of the counter and
makes like he’s busy. So he’s
busy. That’s all right with me.
He can wait. Because I want to
talk to him, on account of his
outlook on Rosses. But he can
wait.
“Be seeing you,” I says, and
heads for the street.
Willets has woke up. Herd of
workers making for the pub.
They’re coming from where the
eucalyptus-mill chimneys and
roofs stick up, beyond the
railway-station. Women in the
street now. Children, too. And
dogs. Dogs all over the place.
Work is over at the mill for the
day and the village comes alive.
Over in a store doorway stands
the pigeon in the pink dress,
{Continued on page 27)


EVERY DAY
IN SO MANY WAYS
Cticlone serves Australia
Si
Aw
m
■; V
sa
rj>,
111
■&:• • •••• : . • xSk
-. 'J*.
TS/7
" x ' >;’
“Cyclone” Prefabricated Tubular
Steel Building Frames easy and
economical to erect - require
little maintenance —last a lifetime.
, ■
m
The genuine “Cyclone” field Gate
of famous “Red Tag” quality
2
:
E S 3
“Cyclone” Wrought Iron Gates
Doors and Balustrades lend
beauty and distinction
“Cyclone” Stock Transports
for safe and economical movement
“Cyclone” Ringiock Farm Fences
provide ease and economy of erection
&
Cyclone” Playground Equipment
keeps children safe and happy
m
“Cyclone” Factory Fences
protect property and plant
m
“Cyclone” Tennis Court Enclosures
require no horizontal rails fewer posts
Cl. <O4/70/84
clone
FOR OVER 50 YEARS FAMOUS FOR QUALITY
Do you own a farm —or a house —or a factory? If
you own any land or buildings large or small, there are
“Cyclone” products which will raise their value.
“Cyclone” products stand the longest and hardest usage.
In other words, they are of the best possible design and
the best materials and the best workmanship. Yet
their prices are most moderate ; because more than
half a century of fame and popularity has made mass
production possible.
You get highest quality at mass production prices in all
“Cyclone” products. Ask your local “Cyclone” distri-
butor for details of any “Cyclone” products which
interest you.
GENUINE "CYCLONE" PRODUCTS ARE MADE ONLY BY
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne - Sydney - Adelaide - Perth - Brisbane - Townsville


it I
M
/
ATLANTIC
i ■
X?
> ATLANTIC
H. [ f ■
ATLANTIC
’*-FL4Tff>
m
M
JOT.
2
nuasAtf ■=
OAltONg ■ -
iliUl)
IS
r\|i TjJfo*
(
•"•’ll,////
"/<■///>
'"lff//
ff/fft/J
?■'/////'
99
rl? 1 I
X\T
oil
Happif nietcAinq
. . . starts with
Atlantic Products
That’s because they’re teamed together
to give you every ounce of power available,
to prevent breakdowns, and to keep engines
young. The Big Two are the basis of it all:
First there’s Atlantic Flash Extra the
spark-eager spirit now fortified with Para-
dyne (J 54), to give extra pep, banish hard
carbon, and tonic upper cylinders. Then
there’s pure paraffin-base Atlantic
Motor Oil, always on its metal with
a smooth, wear-defying film, soss
Go Atlantic and
Stay Atlantic for ..
* /.///, * a
AP.I-54
Do we hove hidden
mental powers?
Do some of us have the
power to read people’s minds,
“see” events taking place far
away, foretell the future?
In May Reader’s Digest,
noted author Aldous Huxley
presents documented cases of
persons with just such powers
evidence that there is some-
thing operative in man that
transcends the laws of nature.
And he tells how researchers
may one day prove the possi-
bility of life after death.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you 30 stimulating articles con-
densed from world’s leading
magazines and books plus a
24-page condensation of a fas-
cinating new biography of
Thomas Edison. One shilling
and sixpence at all news-
agents and bookstalls.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Passage by
Vance Palmer.—5769.
To buy copy of No Roads Go By
by Myrtle White.—5768.
Wanted complete words or any
fragments of “The Old Poley Cow”
sung to the air of “So Early in the
Morning,” of which the first verse
goes:
The old Poley Cow ran off the track.
So Master went to fetch her back,
So early in the morning, so early in the
morning,
So early in the morning, before the
break of day.
—5783.
Words or any fragments and tune
(if known) of “Under a Gum Tree I
Was Born,” of which the first verse
is:
I’m in the bush, I’m in the bush,
Where the creeks and rivers rush,
It was all serene on a summer’s morn.
Under a Gum Tree I was bom.
—5784.
To buy books on Tasmanian early
history, including any on pioneer
shipping.—s7B2.
Information Sought
Who wrote “Barwon Ballads” ? Is
there anything known of the author’s
life ?
James L. Cuthbertson. He was
bom in Scotland, spent a couple of
years at Oxford, and came to Aus-
tralia in 1875. For the next twenty
years he was classics master at Gee-
long Grammar School, where he
founded the “School Quarterly,” in
which most of his work was pub-
lished. His verses show a cultured
and contemplative outlook, with many
classical allusions. He died at Mount
Gambier, South Australia, in 1910.
* * * «
What is a palindrome ?
A form of composition which reads
the same forwards and backwards. A
Latin example is Roma tibi subito
motibus ibit amor. A couple of Eng-
lish sentences that are palindromes are
the well-known “Able was I ere I saw
Elba” and “Dog a devil deified,
deified lived a god” (said to be the
longest palindrome in English). As
single words and names, there are the
Australian place-names Glenelg and
Tumut, and Hannah, Anna, Bob, peep,
noon, etc.
* * * *
(i) Does corn make good silage ?
(2) Should it be chaffed for the pit ?
(3) Would frost affect its quality?
(4) What is the best stage to ensile it?
(1) Provided that the pit is packed
tight and has sufficient earth on top
to keep out air and water, corn ensiles
well. (2) Chaffing is recommended,
but the corn should not be cut very
finely. (3) Effect of frost depends on
its severity; lightly-touched stuff will
still make good fodder. (4) Best stage
is when the plants are still sappy, just
before the cobs start to move towards
maturity. Success depends on packing
the stuff tightly in the pit. Build it
well above ground-level before cover-
ing.
* * * *
I recently acquired a copy of
Nehemiah Bartley’s “Opals and
Agates.” Is anything known about
this writer ?
Nehemiah Bartley was bora in
London about 1830 and came to Aus-
tralia as a child. He spent some time
in Sydney, Hobart and Melbourne,
and died in Brisbane, where he had
been employed by the Bank of New
South Wales. At the time of his
death in 1896 he was preparing
Australian Pioneers and Remini-
scences, which was finally edited by
J. J. Knight and issued by Gordon
and Gotch. A Bulletin reviewer ot
the time wrote, “The old chap was
not born to write, but he had a good
head, a good eye, and could tell
intelligently what he thought and
saw. You dip into his volume as a
sort of historical lucky-bag and
nearly always fish out something
interesting.”
* * * *
After whom did Captain Cook name
Port Jackson ?
After George Jackson (1725-1822),
Secretary of the Navy Board, later
Second Secretary to the Admiralty
and after that Judge Advocate of the
Fleet; also he was for varying periods
an M.P. In 1797 he changed his
name to Duckett by royal licence to
conform with the conditions of a
bequest, and is generally referred to
in reference-books as such —in full,
having been knighted, Sir George
Duckett. Cook began his life as a
stable-boy on the estate of Jackson’s
sister in Yorkshire. It was probably
Jackson’s influence with Lord Sand-
wich that gave Cook command of the
Endeavour, and Cook recognised his
help by naming Port Jackson in his
honor; also, a cape in N.Z., Point
Jackson.
Brief Answers ,
F.S.: Write Angus and Robertson
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
A.S.H.: Lempriere’s Classical Dic-
tionary (235. 3d.) obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney M.M.; Cape Otway
Lighthouse (South-western Victoria)
was erected in 1848; it was the first
lighthouse on the Victorian coast.
The first lighthouse erected in Aus-
tralia was that placed by Macquarie
on the outer South Head of Port
Jackson; it dates from 1818
C. 8.: (1) Cutty Sark was built for
Captain John Wilkes in that birth-
place of good ships the Clyde. De-
signed by Hercules Linton and laid
down in 1868, she was launched in
1869. Scott and Linton’s started her,
but before she was completed that
firm went bankrupt, and Denny’s
finished her. In June, 1870, she left
the Clyde on her maiden voyage. (2)
She was a full-rigged ship of 963 tons
gross. She had iron for her frames,
and timber for her planking and
decks. She was painted jet-black,
and gold-leaf adorned the letters of
her name and her port of registry.
(3) Cutty Sark means short shirt,
or short chemise, in Scots dialect;
Burns uses it in his poem “Tam
O’Shanter” J.R.T.: (1) Oxide-of-
iron will intensify the shades of blue
in hydrangea blooms, while lime can
be used on pink or red shades. Add
the iron or lime during winter months.
(2) Spray leaves with lime-and-sulphur
or nicotine-and-sulphur 8.D.: (1)
The banks operating at West Maitland
(N.S.W.) in the 1860’s were the Bank
of New South Wales, the Bank of
Australasia, the Commercial Bank
of Sydney and the Australian Joint
Stock Bank. The records of the period
are very meagre, and do not disclose
definitely whether these were the only
banks operating, or whether there
were others as well. (2) The date
of Good Friday, 1914, was April 10.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.P.R.: Your friends are easily
amused A.G.A.: Thp “fruits of
many weeks’ labor” was rejected in a
matter of minutes S.V.: That
idea’s got whiskers down to its boots.
K.S.J.; Judging by poem about
kangaroo scratching for fleas we are
not likely to be interested in “a
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
humorous poem entitled “ ‘Petrov’s
Pills for Pale Pinks’ ”.... M.McC.:
It is unwise to introduce ten
characters within the first hundred
words E.G.: Dump your “brain
child” on someone else’s doorstep
R.M.M.: Away with your swaggies
who “speak with a cultured accent
that would do credit to an A.B.C.
announcer” N.K.; Can’t see you
appearing in print this side of 1964
at the earliest... .J.D.W.: The rum-
drinking sergeant was deprived of
his stripes H. 8.: What made you
think that we were in the market for
that class of material? S.A.W.:
Whenever we find a doctor, a
barrister, a judge and a brigadier-
general settled in comfortable chairs
at the club, smoking expensive cigars
and sipping whisky, we steal away and
leave them to it R.P.: We’re
oiling the office blunderbuss in pre-
paration for another visit from that
family of freaks N.S.M.: Closed
the door on the old maid in the
bathtub P.S.F.: Interesting set-
ting, but characters are only dummies.
H.A.P.: Even though illus-
trations would make a tremendous
improvement,” it still wouldn’t be
good enough L.S.: Mysterious
Orientals and sinister Latin were
summarily deported A.J.C.:
Future visitors with the story of the
prospector who murdered his mate
and then died of thirst will be asked
to contribute to the price of a new
w.p.b 8.C.: There are roughly
927 bards walking along that out-
back track at the moment F.8.A.:
No camping-space for Jacky and his
gin M.S.: Your patriotism is
beyond reproach but not your verse.
W.C.H.: The jingle’s about as
exciting as a bicycle-bell E.M.:
Left the maiden when she began to
sing soulfully to the weeping willows.
R.S.R.: Come again when you
have calmed down... .T.H.; Counted
three ghosts and four corpses and
then took our leave L.K.: Deep-
sea diver was left floundering on the
ocean-bed....A.E.8.: The office-boy
solved it at the second page
M.T.: May Day poem arrived too
late... .H.M.G.: No “spare corner”
for your masterpiece H.S.D.:
“Waltzing Matilda” was among the
week’s wallflowers S.F.J.: This
office is full of swans, all “honking.


Australia's Improved Defences
The New Army
1. — The Need and the Men
By "EK DUM"
MUCH is likely to be heard
in the next few weeks of
Australia’s preparedness
or otherwise to defend
itself against an enemy, and most
of the discussion will be ill-
informed and opposed to right
principles. Some will be hysteri-
cal. Already geniuses like Mr.
Calwell, Mr. Clive Evatt and Mr.
Ward are in the field, with the
usual confusing results, and
the Government’s rationalisa-
tion proposals which lay stress
on the development of the Air
Force, apparently at the pro-
posed cost of the Regular Army,
do not make the position clearer.
Correlation of the arguments of
the various champions of Aus-
tralian security on the Labor
side produces a mixed viewpoint
somewhat as follows; Nothing
can be done against the hydro-
gen-bomb, The next war will
be a push-button war in which
all previous methods will have
passed to the troglodytic age.
The Menzies Government is a
product of that age. It still
thinks it can defend a continent
with infantry and land-artillery
—a conception entertained in
these enlightened days only by
“blimps.”
All of which sounds rather
less consistent and logical when
the voices of Messrs. Ward, Cal-
well and co. are heard screeching
from the centre of the publicity
explosion about the danger
which exists to the Common-
wealth from Japan, which hasn’t
any atomic weapons, and the
utter iniquity of the Menzies
Government—“warmongers all,”
according to a large section of
the Labor party —in leaving the
North “wide open” to attack.
The only attack we could ex-
pect would, of course, be from
the Communist nations, or from
some country like Indonesia,
which was helped to indepen-
dence by World Communism.
Yet, while fearing this external
menace, the critics have at no
time been inclined to make war
on the fifth-column Communist
party, which the potential attack-
ers have lodged in the heart
of Australian industry, though
Mr. Ward in particular (especi-
ally when arguing against send-
ing Australians outside the
Commonwealth to prevent war
from reaching Australian shores)
would probably be the first to
agree with the dictum of General
Fuller:
Manpower and industry, together
with the resources upon which they
feed and the rate at which muni-
tions and troops can be created,
largely determine a nation's stay-
ing-power in war.
The fact is that atomic war-
fare is still only a phase of war-
fare and not the be-all and end-
all of warfare itself. It has not
yet reached the stage at which it
can be used tactically on the
battlefield with any hopeful
result. It might be economic on
huge concentration-areas full of
war-materials and men if an
enemy were obliging enough to
create them. It might be used
to blast-out large bridge- and
beach-heads inadequately pro-
tected. If the Russians were
able to create, assemble and con-
centrate great artillery armies
and a few large, close-packed
troop-concentrations, such as
they used in the last war, it
might pay to attack them atomic-
ally, if the attack had a chance
of getting through to its objec-
tive.
But, basically, atomic attack
is something to be used against
industry, against civilians —a
barbarous, highly-expensive
method apt to defeat the aims
of the attacker. And the real
danger is the old danger—that
of invasion by troops.
War remains what it has
always been—a thing of giants
battering each other, a thing of
the rapier-strokes to the gizzard,
a thing of the strangler—of every
kind of fighting in which no
holds are barred, from finger-
nails-to-the-eye to booby-traps
in the perambulator. And tire
achievement of ultimate victory
is an engineering and industrial
problem. The nation which has
the last armed and equipped re-
serves of the right nature at its
disposal still will throw up its
hat on the mullock-heap under
which it has buried its enemy.
War still has its limits, and
those limits are written firstly in
men, secondly in the power to
arm them more effectively than
the enemy, and thirdly in the
ability to transport them with
speed and elasticity of movement
which will enable them to kill off
their adversaries with surprise
and with minimum loss to them-
selves. The only real change
that has taken place in the prin-
ciples of war lies in the fact that,
while in its most primitive form
the essential factor was man-
power and long nails, the modern
victory depends on manpower,
plus manufactured resources on
land, sea and in the air.
It is unlikely that the imme-
morial basic factors of wars will
disappear. Weapons fissionable
and fusionable are not the seeds
of the end of war, but of the end
of themselves. They are becoming
too destructible to be usable at
all. A weapon which destroys
and desolates completely the re-
sources and populations which it
is sought to conquer is like a
furnace for making steel which is
so hot that it burns up its own
product.
And scarcely even the most
starry-eyed professor could bring
himself to believe, on a survey of
the disturbances of Asia, Africa
and Europe in the past decade,
that the repudiation of atomic
weapons could bring about
ready-made world peace. The
apparently natural will of men
to fight still survives in most
humans and dies hard. These
age-old factors remain.
Hh +
In terms of modern war, as
General Rowell or any other
Service-head would say, the
basis of peace organisation in
anticipation of defence is a
powerful and mobile cadre from
which, at short notice, with dan-
ger imminent, an adequate force
can be built,
A cadre, of course, is a per-
manent nucleus; and it is the
only permanent structure for de-
fence which is economic in any
country not an aggressor —in-
deed the only possible one, since
to go further would be to detach
manpower from industry on a
useless scale, weaken the power
of the nation to fight when the
moment comes, and squander
resources.
Modern war is a fast-moving,
fast-changing thing, and the
greatest difficulty is to gauge the
peace-time adequate, which
must be gauged on grounds of
expense, if nothing else. Once
conflict begins methods change,
weapons change, and every effort
at originality is made by the
defenders to steal the initiative
from the attacker, who usually
has had perforce to
hrs methods, since e is
end of an everJengthenmg com-
munication-lme. What Australia
will need is time to meet the
full blast of the onslaught when
it develops, meantime keeping
This is the first of a series of articles by “Ek Bum” on the
development of the present Australian Military Forces. The
articles constitute the first complete summary of the position
to be published in a newspaper. The figures given are up-to-
date to January or March, 1954, and have been carefully
checked with official sources.
open our communications with
our Allies. This phase is the
province of the R.A.N. and-the
R.A.A.F. These forces join in
the application of strength and
novelties and try to astonish the
foe and dislocate the rhythm of
his operations in mid-attack.
As the Germans —at the dis-
advantage, at which aggressors
always are in modern war, of
having to pile-up munitions,
food and fuel and carry them to
the seat of war —suddenly found
themselves faced with radar and
the Spitfire, which smashed their
blows from the air in the Battle
of Britain, so in World War 111,
if it comes, the enemy will have
to face new surprises, if the de-
fenders can contrive them. But,
whatever the surprises, whatever
the ultimate defence may need to
be, its success, while the de-
fenders are playing for time,
will depend on the existence
of an adequate military
cadre properly sited and
equipped, factoried, and fitted
with the basis of transport riot
merely so that it can expand but
can expand suitably to meet
whichever of the particular kinds
of attack the country may meet
—and where it has to be met.
With a proper strategical basic
force no country moated by wide
oceans like Australia —even
Indonesia being as far from its
nearest shore as Denmark is
from London —is likely to defend
itself by the Ward-Calwell
method,, which smacks of the
days of 17th-century war before
Marshal Saxe began to expound
the theory of penetration of
enemy country by mobile forces.
There need not be a man
within a thousand miles of Aus-
tralia’s north coast, yet the North
will not be “wide open” pro-
vided that wherever there are
men and aircraft they have ade-
quate warning-facilities and
adequate transport to get them to
the right place in the right time.
Indeed it is doubtful if any
enemy making a first blow would
recognise the existence of a
deserted area like the Australian
north coast. He would strike
by air at the great industrial
centres. He would land para-
chute-troops and -equipment
near whatever lethal spots he
could think of. He would seek
to control railways and aero-
dromes. And the objective of de-
fence must be to thwart him at
all vital points ; to grow with his
effort to meet his own growth,
and to get behind him and
pulverise his communication-
lines. Also, to prevent his
capture of intact or useful
materiel.
This is our role in pure de-
fence, but our security is inte-
grated in the scheme of British
Commonwealth and U.N.O.
security to such an extent that
we must have a force which can
be used expeditiously to fight
anywhere needed along the
. In din Pakistan
The^defences .of Mia,Patotan
Burma, Malaya, are as much the
defence of Australia as the
actual fighting-off of the enemy
from our own shores. Indeed,
the defence of these countries
represents the very first and most
important phase of our own pro-
tection, since to defend success-
fully any of them lying between
Moscow, or Peking, and Aus-
tralia means keeping Australian
soil free from the horror of war.
Because of our obligations
under the United Nations charter
we must be prepared to provide
armed forces at call to support
U.N.O. decisions as soon as war
breaks out against an aggressor ;
perhaps even beforehand. And
this has lent both realism and
urgency to current Australian
defence plans and given the
public that instinctive sense of
need of which willingness to co-
operate in defence is the natural
issue.
And it should be understood
that there has been no change
in conditions to dictate the
elimination or reduction to
token strength of ground forces...
The change is in favor, in fact,
of increasing ground forces' and
of making them mojre‘’versatile
so that they can ,be used with
the other services—they must
become accustomed, Tor in-
stance, to parachute service and
air-transport techniques. This
the country instinctively senses,
and it has been the essential
factor in producing the defence
force of 1954.
One of the greatest surprises
the Labor party suffered after
the Menzies Government came
to power was the readiness with
which Australia accepted its
defence duties following the
long travail and dislocation of a
major war around its coasts.
Always certain that the right
peace-time appeal should be
made to the coward and the
shirker and that the Army was
the natural lurking-place of the
loafer and the unemployable.
Labor’s followers of this theory
were astonished to discover how
fallacious their conceptions
about the attitude of young Aus-
tralian manhood had always
been. They must have been
amazed to find that men were
ready, in a time of bumper pros-
perity, to enlist in adequate num-
bers to fight in Korea, and that
compulsory service, so far from
being regarded by the youth of
the Commonwealth as an irk-
some slavery forced on them as
they reached the threshold of
manhood, was actually popular
as a conditioner for the great
adventure of adult life.
Much of this is due to the
Government’s outlook, to its
refusal to accept military service
as something slatternly and
almost shameful, a product of
the warmongers to be referred
to in terms of disgrace and with
epithets of condemnation imply-
ing gross inefficiency and waste
applied by outmoded methods.
A great part of the success of
the present Australian Army,
permanent and otherwise, has
arisen because the Government
has acknowledged what Labor
itself never fully acknowledged—
the fact that soldiering is a vital
profession, calling for high stan-
dards of technical training ; that
a period of service can be a
period of normal, comfortable
living dowered with amenities
ordinarily available to civilians ;
that it need not necessarily com-
partment the life of the service-
man and make him a separate
being who steps into a strange
and alien world calling for fresh
skills and orientation when he
doffs his uniform at the end of
his service and again becomes
part of the civilian nation at
large.
Comfortable buildings, civil-
ised surroundings, clean sport,
zestful living and human
methods of training in command
have revolutionised the looked-
down-upon swaddy of an earlier
day. The difference of outlook,
which replaces command and
stiff discipline by leadership, has
worked wonders in Army atmo-
sphere.
The need for specialisation
and the use of highly-skilled
aptitudes has completely altered
the outlook of the Australian
soldier regarding himself. He no
longer has cause to look on him-
self as an automaton shouted at
and pushed round by sarnmajors.
He cannot to-day be a soldier
without being a skilled tech-
nician, a trained athlete, part of
a team which plays a game so
vital that it can tolerate neither
lack of initiative nor lack of skill.
The Australian Regular—a
new breed—knows that he is on
the same basis as any other civil
servant as regards opportunity.
He can earn promotion through
all ranks to the top if he has the
right qualities and energy. And
if he turns to civilian life at the
end of his term of enlistment he
goes to work with a better train-
ing for the job than most who
have stayed civilian.
It is on this basis that the
Army—leaving out the other
services, which have been re-
organised on much the same
principles—has acquired a per-
manent shape, which it never had
before ; one likely to endure as
a natural concomitant of a
stable nation, with features of a
kind previously foreign to our
defence.
+ +
Until the adoption of the pre-
sent scheme our military forces
had been in a vaporous condi-
tion. They had had their Olym-
pus in the shape of a very effi-
cient Staff Corps ; but it had few
bricks to build with —a nebulous
mass of peace-time soldiery,
varying in training according to
the political view of those
momentarily in power, and
usually of doubtful value. Be-
hind these shaky forces there had
stood, in peace-time, a very
inadequate background of equip-
ment- and factory-installation,
one so insufficient that long after
the outbreak of World War II
men were drilling in giggle-suits
with broomsticks.
That can never happen again
in foreseeable times. Behind the
new fighting forces is an adminis-
trative component of 5000 civil-
ians, workshops, supply-depots
and warehouses, petrol-, oil- and
lubricant-installations, tra n s-
portation-agencies, ration-depots,
hospitals, medical- and dental-
facilities, ammunition-depots,
not to mention the great train-
ing-depots which are changing
from tented wastes to tree-lined
parks round solid barrack-
blocks, equipped with all the
facilities of normal life and
abutting vast bushland training-
grounds where all types of war-
exercises may be carried on.
All these accessories are now
somewhat lost in space, occupy-
ing -far more than their present
actual needs in land ; for the con-
cept is never forgotten that,
large as some of them seem in
peace-time, they are the homes
of cadres round which the whole
military strength of the nation
{Continued on page 27)


IXL - AJC
OK - VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
agl
COVENTRY CLIMAX
Industrial Engine Unit
4 cylinder petrol engine, rated
8 H.P., develops max. approx.
20 H.P. Water cooled with
radiator and fan. Impulse mag-
neto, precision governor.
Complete with tools and jplOQ
spares **
Trade inquiries invited .
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Boad, Newtown,
Sydney. BA 3597.
SPORTING NOTIONS
In the latest prizemoney in-
creases, the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event in Aus-
tralia, appropriately gets the
highest rating, the V.R.C. having
raised the stake to a record
£15,000, an increase of £lOOO on
last year’s figure. This huge
prize should attract horses from
all States and from New Zea-
land. The Victoria Derby also
has been lifted, from £6OOO to
£7OOO, while the A.J.C. has in-
creased the prizemoney for the
opening two-year-old races, of
the season, the Breeders’ Plate
and the Gimrack Stakes, each to
£2OOO.
The A.J.C. has removed the
maximum-weight scale, 9.7,
from the Epsom Handicap and
the Metropolitan; but its main
problem in the coming season
will be to find a way of increas-
ing the size of fields in less im-
portant handicap events at major
carnivals. It will be necessary
to stage the right type of race
to attract sufficient numbers to
give the tote-betting public more
three-horse dividends than hap-
pened at the recent carnival.
Even with bright, sunny weather
the crowd at City Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick last Satur-
day was down some thousands
compared with last autumn’s
fixture, and tote figures dropped
sharply. As only 61 horses com-
peted that was no surprise. Four
competed in one event and five
in two others.
Waterlady’s win in City Tat-
tersall’s Handicap may well
have caused former owner E. R.
Williams mixed feelings, the
four-year-old daughter of Mid-
stream (imp.) and Best Wishes
having earlier had an exasperat-
ing run of minor placings this
season —three in a row before
last Saturday. Williams put the
mare into the Randwick sale-
ring last Friday and Segenhoe
studmaster Lionel Israel bought
her for 3700 gns. for his stud.
Waterlady was an acceptor for
Saturday, the new owner kept
the engagement, and she lifted a
£728 stake, plus some tidy bets!
The mare, however, isn’t likely
to do much more racing, if any.
Her half-brother by Delville
Wood (imp.) was sold at the
recent Randwick yearling sales
for a near-record 6500 guineas.
For last Saturday’s event Prole-
taire, a costly failure on Sydney
courses, was again favorite, but
he filled a minor position for
the fourth successive time. He
probably isn’t as good as was
thought when he came down
from Brisbane.
Randwick trainer Jack Green,
who is experiencing a run of
luck, landed a treble at City
Tattersall’s meeting. He in-
tends to take one of the winners.
Crown Signal, to Brisbane for
the big meetings there in the
winter months. Green won the
A.J.C. Doncaster with Karendi,
who will be the main member of
the team for Brisbane. His other
Randwick winners were two-
year-old Aquaplane and Magic
Touch, and all started at a short
price.
Crown Signal had won twice
at Randwick and also is a win-
ner up the Flemington straight.
As he ran the mile in 1.36 on
Saturday—a second and a half
outside the Australian record
held by stablemate Silver Phan-
tom —he could prove more than
a useful second-string for the
Green stable in Brisbane.
Apprentice J. Perry, who won on
Crown Signal and Magic Touch,
is a lad with a bright future,
judging by his early efforts. Few
apprentices claiming an allow-
ance of 71b. have won a double
at Randwick.
N. Sell wood’s win on Aqua-
plane brought his total to 67
wins and one dead-heat for the
season, and he has such a lead
over opponents that he seems
assured of riding honors for the
term. In Melbourne Bill Wil-
liamson, with 53-1- wins, is hold-
ing a handy lead over Jack
“I’m getting a set of dentures made for it—it doesn't
look ferocious enough .”
Purtell (46y), and there could
be a close finish for honors.
E. A. Underwood’s two-year-
old Oglethorpe is to be set for
the V.R.C. Derby following his
win at one mile in the two-year-
old Ferndale Handicap at
Flemington. He has also won at
the V.R.C. track at seven fur-
longs, so he has shown staying
ability, and he is bred along
those lines. The colt is by Eng-
lish sire Masthead from a
French-bred mare, Savannah.
Masthead won the Newmarket
St. Leger and other races in
England. He is by Blue Peter
(Derby). Savannah, bred 1944,
is by Jock from Nokka by Tour-
billon, and was imported to Vic-
toria in 1950 by E. A. Under-
wood. In Sydney, Ace Pfiot, who
won the mile Fernhill Handicap
at Randwick, is to be set for the
A.J.C. Derby. He, too, is a
staying type,
Sydney owner Arthur Murrell,
racing Valley Vista in Brisbane,
had a win with the Port Vista
gelding in the Eagle Farm
Second Novice on Saturday.
Persian Link, winner of the
Suburban Handicap at the same
meeting, was bred by Mrs. Mur-
rell. Persian Link had also won
earlier in Brisbane, where he was
sent a few weeks back. The grey
ran the mile and a quarter of
the Suburban Handicap in the
smart time of 2min, 2|sec.
Persian Link is a smart horse,
and will win more races and in
the best company.
In winning the first Canter-
bury Maiden Handicap Fervere
earned a moderate prize of £3BO,
only a small portion of the
3500gns. paid for him as a
yearling at the 1952 Randwick
sales. However, he comes from
a good winning-family, and he
may soon score in much better
company. Rosehill-trained by
M. F. Anderson, the colt carries
the French Echo colors, and is
a brother to a speedy pair. Tri-
clinium and Sky Hawk. All
three are by Genetout (imp.)
from Fervent by Equator (imp.),
and are products of Aluinn
stud, Roxburgh (N.S.W.).
San Domenico, foaled 1945,
is now racing in the western
country districts of N.S.W. for
small stakes and with varying
fortune. Recently he won a £25
stake which sent his total earn-
ings to £30,839, or £lO more
than Mollison’s figures. He
thus became greatest sprinting
winner in Australia so far as
stakemoney is concerned. After
winning that mediocre stake he
was beaten out of a place.
Another veteran. Prince o’
Fairies, sent his stakemoney to
£27,640 at Moonee Valley re-
cently. His owner, Ossie Porter,
will soon retire the seven-year-
old, who will then be used as
a clerk-of-the-course’s hack.
Prince o’ Fairies has had 81
starts and San Domenico 75.
C. Kelley piloted each of the
five winners at Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) on Saturday. In the
first race his mount, Black Duck,
was so good a thing that it
started at 20 to 1 on, and his
other winners were all heavily
supported. Other jockeys to
win every race on a programme
include A. Holman (eight) at
Tam worth ; W. Thomas (seven)
at Townsville and A. Whittaker
(seven) at Huntly (N.Z.). Ted
Bartle rode six winners and a
second at Moorefield in March,
1930, while Laurie Sharpe
piloted seven successive winners
at Wyong in December, 1935.
Southern districts jockey Frank
Mclntyre rode five winners and
dead-heated for first in the only
other race at Wagga in 1949.
Randwick’s annual yearling
sale was pleasing to vendors and
to all others interested in the
thoroughbred industry, as over
the four days 655 youngsters
found new owners, who paid
an aggregate of 360,765gn5. for
them —an average of 551gns.,
which was a slight improvement
(lOgns. to be exact) on last
year’s average, when total sales
were 341,590gn5. for 631 lots.
Top price for a filly, 2650gn5.,
was paid on the final day, when
breeder C. R. Kearney was last
bidder for the daughter of Mel-
bourne Cup-winner Comic Court
and Valonese by Rabbi. A
fine-looker, she is bred to stay,
as she has the Carbine blood on
the dam’s side, while Comedy
King (imp.) appears on both
sides of the family. The filly
was reared at Warlaby stud
(Vic.).
Former top-class Australian
performer Shannon—he won
£18,987 in stakes in this country
and £65,661 in the U.S. —is
making a name for himself at
the stud in America. His 1954
fee is $2500, and he is located
at Spendrift Farm stud, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky. Up till the end of
February, Shannon had sired 25
winners of 58 races and $175,070
in stakemoney. One of his pro-
geny, Pegeen, had five wins at
two years and had earned a total
of $46,845. Shannon ran a mile
in 1.34| at Randwick in October,
1946, which was the Australian
record until Silver Phantom re-
duced it by a quarter of a second,
also at Randwick, in October
last.
♦ * *
The North-of-the-Harbor v-
South -of - the - Harbor game,
which has come to be an annual
fixture in Sydney Rugby Union,
and a sort of half-dress re-
hearsal for international games,
was worse than most; perhaps
because of that sinking feeling
players get when they are
officially performing for selec-
tion. South, with the formid-
able Nick Shehadie in com-
mand, in a one-sided game (29-
13), won the right to play the
Fijians at North Sydney Oval
next Saturday. The backs mostly
looked poor—which they are
not —individual forwards, par-
ticularly Souths, looked good.
Still, North lost Wallaby centre
Phipps early in the game, and
didn’t have Brian Johnson ; two
defenders who can alter the
swing of a game.
* * *
In the third round of the
V.F.L. on Saturday, Geelong
and Essendon, clashing at
Essendon after both had been
beaten in the second round,
turned on a grand exhibition of
the game. Coleman kicked nine
goals, but the Cats really won
in the second quarter, when they
kicked 8.7 to 1.2 (Geelong 16.20-
15.10) Two of the three
hitherto unbeaten teams, Col-
lingwood and North Melbourne,
remained that way—the premiers
just holding off St. Kilda (10.16-
10.10) and Norths overcoming
Fitzroy (13.16-9.10). The other
one, Souths, was absolutely
mangled by Footscray (17.14-
3.11). Richmond had a clear-
cut win over Carlton (14.20-
12.8) after trailing at half-time,
and Hawthorn, with “Candles”
Thompson settling down well in
his first game, beat Melbourne
(11.9-9.10).
• • • •
“J.H.”: A famous name of
National football, second
generation, was in the lists for
West Adelaide against North in
the opening round in Adelaide
—Haydn Bun ton, 17-year-old
son of triple Brownlow and
Sandover Medallist. Young
Bun ton, a bedridden cripple for
two years as a child and with
his leg in irons till he was 10,
has shown a mort of courage to
become an active player. “His
first game in League company
was a better one than mine,”
said the first Haydn Bunton.
Apropos, the star for North in
the match referred to was Ken
McGregor, another son of a
well-known football father.
Moved-up to full-forward in the
last quarter to cover a weakness
there, he goaled just before the
bell to give his side a three-
points win.
♦ ♦ ♦
Jimmy Carruthers still world
champion, on points, after a
hard fight in the rain, before
immense crowds ; Thai Royalty,
diplomats and such stoush cele-
brities as Nat Fleischer —alto-
gether the championship fight at
Bangkok was something worth
seeing, apparently, with Nature
providing an appropriate back-
drop, and both boys slipping
and missing in the pelting down-
pour. Jimmy and Chamrern
Songkitrat both weighed 8.5 i,
and the Australian’s eye was
opened in the tenth round.


£
r
4
Jj-O
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST BE AGED
only in the wood can age
be achieved; and McCallum’s
is mellowed with years
of care, and by the
skilled attention of
Scots distillers.
w
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
the name is
(D c CalUuns
the whisky is
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS
MolBa/6.2
ikuffi in ike
JFniwrc
m
fsm ■:
One of the mistakes men make in their thinking
is that in this created world the change is slow and
gradual.
True, we live on a planet that spins on its way
through space with a trueness that is staggering to the
finite mind. Scientists, calculating the age of the earth
and of other orbs in the universe, speak in millions of
years.
And men, frightened by the colossal, lose sight of
the particular things that matter in the world around
them. Obsessed by the vastness of creation, they
forget that Life also belongs to the individual.
Each man has his estimate of what is just, his
demands to achieve it, his pursuit of his ideals. Where
Faith and Courage urge him on, he is creative and I
believe there are great creative urges in the world
today. Science has made such strides in the last half-
century that there can now be few things in Nature
that Man has not tapped.
Add to this constant urge the pressures of popula-
tion that are showing on parts of the atlas, and you
get some idea of the pace Australia, as a food-
producing country, will have to keep in the world of the
future.
It will call for the use of all this age has to offer —
in speed, in mechanisation, in bold plans for watering
and improving the land. It will present its challenge
in Distribution, but that should not daunt us.
• There never was an age which was free of turmoils
and uncertainties. But it is equally true that the
turbulent times in history have produced the most in
human achievement.
We have a job to do here in Australia. We have
to do it in a world no longer set in compartments by
distance ; a world in which the more fortunate ones,
as we, are pledged to help the whole of humanity.
That great Christian missionary, David
Livingstone, once said he would go anywhere, provided
it was forward. Australia must go forward now. But,
as with Livingstone, the effort gets down, in the end,
to the individual.
watching the men come from the
mill.
I got business with that
pigeon.
I go across and get in the blue
sedan and roll it slow along the
street. When I’m level with her
I touch the horn button. Just a
pip, kind of accidental. 1 don’t
look round. After I’m past I take
a recco in the rear-vision mirror.
The pigeon is looking after the
car. She’s talking to two youths,
but she’s watching the car. It’s
a smart job, that blue sedan, and
she’s the kind of pigeon I think
she is the blue sedan is bait she
can’t resist. I drive on, slow,
through the people. Some of
them look at the car. Some look
at me. I cross the railway and
head up the road past the mill.
In the mill-yard is the big truck
with the load of molasses. Two
men and Johnny unloading the
drums.
The scenery is different over
here. In back of the mill there’s
a low hill. It’s under heavy
growth. Eucalypts. Off to the
left a drive runs, lined with
poplars and sugar-gums. There’s
a shrubbery and a big garden at
the head of the drive, and a big
white house among the trees.
The name on the drive entrance
is Bellerive.
After this the road climbs the
hill. Eucalypts crowd close on
both sides. From the crest of the
hill I see eucalypts clothing a
long slope down into a valley.
The valley is cleared land, with
farms.
I turn the car and roll her back
to the village. If the pigeon took
the bait she’ll be about ready to
land.
She’s ready. I see something
pink on the railway-station and
it sees me. Because she starts
down to the road and is wiggling
her hips along it, towards the
village, when I come over the
tracks. So I ease the sedan to
the roadside and give the horn a
pip-
She looks round. I give her a
grin and raise my hat.
“Care for a lift. Candy?”.
{To be continued next week)
must in time of emergency be
assembled at short notice. They
represent space to expand.
Briefly, the parts which go to
make up the Commonwealth
Military Forces to-day are a
Regular Army—something Aus-
tralia has never before owned —
totalling in February, 1954,
25,622 (without the Pacific Is-
lands Regiment, which is a
Regular native unit, 600 strong,
with European officers and
n.c.o.s), plus a citizen force of
over 70,000, due still for some
further expansion, and a cadet
corps.
The Regular Army includes
the Royal Australian Infantry
Regiment, the first corporate
body of its kind formed on a
regular basis in the Common-
wealth —the proud offspring of
the fighting battalions of the
34th Brigade which continued
their war after 1945 through the
occupation of Japan. It was put
almost straight after its forma-
tion into active service among
the mountains of South Korea.
This section forms the bulk of
thb R.A.’s field force of 5800,
a fighting nucleus which seems
relatively small but is normal to
modern organisation. In some
armies the division slice to pro-
vide a 15,000 fighting field-force
is nearly 70,000 men.
Cadres for training with the
Commonwealth Military Forces,
including fixed defences, run to
2675 on present establishment.
There are staffs for training
installations and trainees, 4457 ;
for national-training schemes,
3150; H.Q. base and adminis-
trative units, 8625 ; and units for
other departments, 650. The
total figure includes a Regular
Army Special Reserve of over
3000 at present —this is scheduled
later to disappear—and 580 men
specially enlisted for Korean ser-
vice.
There are also the women’s
services—Bls of the W.A.A.C. —
and a nursing service with a pre-
sent strength of 239 located in
base camps and hospitals, 72 of
them engaged in devoted work
connected with Korea, the rest
largely occupied with the needs
of the continuously-recurring
intakes of 9500 National Service
trainees.
The Regular Army is roughly
double the strength of that of
January, 1950.
Next on the list come the Citi-
zen Military Forces, based on £
planned strength of 72,000,
which includes 55,000 National
Service men at various stages of
obligatory training, plus a volun-
tarily-enlisted component of
17,000.
There is considerable fluctua-
tion in the strength of voluntary
units, but National Service
establishment is well stabilised.
Slince 1950, under the new
regime, the C.M.F. has grown
from 17,050 to 70,659 in January,
1954. And it is to be noted, in
the light of criticism of the plac-
ing of defence and the emptiness
of Australia’s north coast, that
virtually all of these and the
Regular unit bases are located a
night’s flight or less away from
most points in the North, an
indicator of the changing rela-
tionships between time and dis-
tance in warfare.
They are made into two divi-
sions (infantry), plus units of a
third division (minus H.Q.), plus
the Papua and New Guinea
Volunteer Rifles, powerful ele-
ments of two armored brigades,
a proportion of C.M.F, corps
troops designed to provide a basis
for expansion, and base line
and communication components.
They are distributed among
the seven commands: Northern
(based on Brisbane), 14,375;
Eastern (Sydney), 26,241 ; South-
ern (Melbourne), 18,586; Cen-
tral (Adelaide), 6658; Western
(Perth), 5513; Tasmania
(Hobart), 3310; N.T. (Darwin),
74.
On that last figure it may be
said that it would be utterly
wrong in principle to have any
large force at Darwin or similar
station, for it must always be
borne in mind that an attack,
out of the blue, would necessarily
be strong enough to destroy any
force which could conceivably
be maintained on the northern
fringe of the continent on a
peace-time basis.
The forces which do exist, it
must be emphasised again, are
the trained men (with a core of
resources) who can step upward
to command and officer and
organise swelling brigades,
divisions, and corps at short
notice.
That was what happened, in
effect, in 1939, though through
peace-time attrition and not
through enemy action. Then the
Order of Battle of the C.M.F.
made provision to mobilise five
divisions of infantry, plus two
mounted divisions, plus all ancil-
lary troops. But what units
"there were subsisted on the
hare-bone training nucleus. The
Army virtually had to tackle
from scratch the tasks which
confronted it. And if it had not
been for the ability to draw on
the Second A.1.F., of which
Labor had opposed the forma-
tion and dispatch, we would
have faced the Japanese almost
completely without the experi-
enced personnel needed to put
our defence forces on an effec-
tive mobilisation basis.
Even as it was the immediate
calls on the A.I.F. left us without
the full training-capacity re-
quired—capacity which should
have been there, and which to-
day is growing to the desirable
point of sufficiency every week.
During 1953 no fewer than 78
new C.M.F. units were raised
and organised, and the day is not
far distant when the C.M.F. will
have the 279 units in its Order of
Battle at full strength, something
never achieved before in peace-
time in Australian defence his-
tory.
The primary National Service
ingredient in this is a regular
9500-odd engaged in 98 days'
camp-training, which is intensive.
The Regular Army personnel
allotted to train them numbers
3128, though, of course, some of
these are concerned with the
periodical drills and camps which
compulsorily succeed the basic
period of three months’ experi-
ence.
Altogether, up to April 4,
1954, 77,350 youths had spent
their three months in camp and
had acquired knowledge of drill
and the facility in arms-hand-
ling, which seems sometimes to
the victim rather elementary, but
which, at least, conditions the
man for his task in war and
save a precious period of 12
weeks in getting battalions to-
gether and teaching them to obey
orders —more than three-parts of
the battle in the making of fight-
ing troops —when war breaks out.
The final element of Aus-
tralian defence forces is the
Cadet Movement. There are six
cadet brigades, one in each State,
and at the beginning of this year
they fell only 790 under their
establishment of 30,000. Their
work is a valuable preliminary
in the physical conditioning of
youth for National Service train-
ing. And in time of war their
experience would be an asset far
from negligible.
Thus Australia has at last
something that looks like a pro-
per cadre basis to deal with war
emergency; a Staff Corps which
has produced some of the world’s
finest officers (men of the quality
of White, Blarney, Rowell,
Berryman); a Staff College
which is the product of the post-
World War II age, its curriculum
adapted to Australian condi-
tions ; an officers’ training col-
lege in the Royal Military Col-
lege at Duntroon which chal-
lenges comparison with any in
the world in quality of its out-
put, despite its as-yet too-slender
facilities; other training institu-
tions ; a Regular and Citizen
Army carefully and properly
integrated, which provides nuclei
for expansion to fighting-strength
of every unit and type of service
necessary to the formation of a
complete defence Army ; a back-
ing of industry adequate for
every military purpose, and a
mass of fully- or partly-trained
manpower, 100,000 strong,
which is beginning to compare
with the world’s best as a whole,
and which has a hard core of
post-World War II fighting ex-
perience and full and regular
contact with the defence thought
of the rest of the Western
nations.
No nation in relation to popu-
lation is doing more at present in
the matter of defence—military,
naval and air—than Australia,
and that is a pleasing and highly
necessary peace-time novelty.
(Next week “Ek Dum” tells
how the new Army is keeping up
with the atom age.)


INSURANCE —for your profecfion
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
■ (Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3 1 (3 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
FLY WITH
THE LEADER
IN WORLD
AIR TRAVEL
Fly 8.0.A.C. from
Australia to:
Indonesia, Malaya,
Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan,
Ceylon, India,
Pakistan,
Middle East,
Africa, Europe,
Great Britain,
U.S.A., Canada,
Central and
South America,
Bermuda.
A44/AU
wnmmoj mm or
/
Across the world, fast frequent 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird services by fully-pressurized
4-engined airliners link every continent.
Flying 8.0.A.C. you travel in superb
comfort. Prompt courteous attention
is paid to your every need. You enjoy
a standard of service resulting from
8.0.A.C.’s 35 years of flying experience.
And you fly British all the way I
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help—no charge I
8.0.A.C. LEADS WITH THE COMET
Reservations and information from all Travel
Agents and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKbOIH
osuijjvan
. rsxnn *,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
wheat! OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London. New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
REARMING JAPAN
Describing the rearming of
Germany and Japan as “one of
the great ironies of our time,”
the “Baltimore Sun” goes on to
remark that “no sane man
supposes that nine years have
been enough to wipe out all trace
of the madness that impelled
Japan and Germany to try to
dominate the world. No sans
man believes that neither bould
ever again be dangerous; to
believe that would be to believe
that history will suddenly stop
being ironical.
“But the incalculably greater
danger, right now, lies elsewhere,
and so Japan and Germany must
be brought into the defences
against another madness —the
Communist —which seeks to
take over and rule the globe.”
On bringing Japan into the
Allied line-up, the “Milwaukee
Journal” comments that “it is a
gamble for big stakes. No one
can guarantee that a rearmed
Japan will remain a faithful ally.
That’s a calculated risk we’re
forced to take by what U.S.
Secretary of State Dulles has
called ‘the new tide of despotism
which threatens from the Asian
mainland.’ ”
Assessing that “calculated
risk,” London “Economist”
comments that the rearming of
Japan (under the U-S.-Japan
mutual-defence agreement) “does
not, for instance, provide for
American aid on the scale that
Japan would need to regain its
former relative position of
strength in the Far East at any
early date. Nor does it mention
that kind of target even as a
long-term aim.
“Instead, the agreement covers
American military and economic
aid on a scale which is designed
to cater mainly for a modest
expansion of the Japanese Army,
the establishment of a coast-
defence Navy, and the partial
rebuilding of the Japanese arma-
ments industry.
“The main item in the agree-
ment is that this year Japan will
receive $l5O million-worth of
military equipment from the
United States. This will cover
in particular artillery, tanks, anti-
aircraft guns, small warships and
a few aircraft. Under separate
but ancillary lend-lease and off-
shore procurement agreements,
the Japanese will be able to buy
surplus wheat and barley from
the United States on special
terms; these agreements
guarantee that the Americans will
use the proceeds to finance the
manufacture of arms in Japan,
both for itself and for other
Asian countries. Some wheat
will also be provided as a gift.
“The broad reasons for rearm-
ing the Japanese stand out
stroifgly. In the immediate
future, there is an urgent need
to make the Japanese capable of
defending their own territory. In
the event of a world war, it
would be almost impossible to
spare Western troops to defend
Japan. Indeed, the idea has only
to be put forward to be seen as
absurd, even though Japan’s
industrial capacity is a crucial
factor, and its capture the
supreme Russian aim, in the Far
East.
“As matters stand, the object
of American policy is to induce
the Japanese—who are still
cautious and unwilling—to
construct an Army of some
325,000 men, while the Air and
Naval forces required to back
tliem up remain American.
“The only alternative is for the
Japanese to be gobbled-up by
the Communist bloc, which
would be an unthinkable disaster.
Although at present most
Japanese are as inhibited about
their own rearmament as are
many of the critics of America’s
latest move to give them military
help, a new phase is opening in
their relations with the West.
They are no longer to be a
conquered people, but partners in
the fight against Communist
expansionism. If so, the first
step must be to enable them to
defend themselves.”
McCarthy
The impression conveyed by a
large section of Press reports on
him is that Senator McCarthy’s
following in the U.S. consists of
two men and a dog, with the dog
doubtful.
Some indication of the support
he does get in America is given
by a “U.S. News and World
Report” analysis of the latest
Gallup Poll on the subject. The
question put to the voters was
“What is your opinion of Senator
McCarthy?” and the replies were
46 per cent, favorable, 36 per
cent, otherwise and 18 per cent.
“Arbeiter Zeitung."
AUSTRIA LIBERATED, 1945
Austrian comment on the 378 fruitless East-West meetings to
determine the fate of Austria.
noncommittal. And those
figures represent a decline in the
Senator’s popularity since his
dealings with the Army.
McCarthy-support was at its
peak in January this year, when
the vote for him was 50 per cent,
with 29 per cent, against him and
21 per cent, no opinion.
Feeling both for and against
McCarthy has increased pretty
steadily since August, 1951. At
that vote he got 15 per cent, for
and 22 per cent, against. In
April, 1953, it was 19 per cent,
for and 22 per cent, against; in
June, 1953, 35 per cent, for and
30 per cent, against; in August,
1953, 34 per cent, for and 42
per cent, against; at the begin-
ning of this year, 50 per cent,
for and 36 per cent, against.
None of that indicates, of
course, that the “for” and
“against” have changed sides to
any extent. The increases on
both sides have been drawn from
those with “no opinion.” These
have decreased regularly from
63 per cent, in 1951 to 18 per
cent, at the last vote.
Such polls being based on a
thing as fickle as public opinion,
none of the foregoing is to say
where McCarthy might be
tomorrow. Given enough rope
he could, conceivably, hang
himself; on the other hand,
revelations of Communist
espionage, as made by Gouzenko
in Canada or Petrov in Australia,
could just as conceivably lift him
back to popularity.
At the moment he is “most
popular with farmers, 53 per
cent, of whom approve of him,
while business and professional
people, as a group, divide evenly
in approving and disapproving,
although a greater percentage in
this group disapproves than in
any other group.”
The “U.S. News and World
Report” further adds that “the
weight of public opinion holds
that the Senator is doing more to
hurt his country’s relations with
its Allies than to help. At the
time when half the people
favored him, 41 per cent, thought
he was injuring American rela-
tions with friendly countries.
“He obviously stands higher
with the Republican voters than
with members of the Democratic
party, but in each party he seems
to be growing weaker. In any
event, recent moves of Re-
publican leaders indicate that any
decline in Senator McCarthy’s
influence is to be helped along
by his own party,”
British Aero Engines
f >
Of America’s first jet-airliner
project—the Boeing 707, due to
fly this year—London “Financial
Times” remarks that it is hardly
surprising that America is
anxious to boost its sole chal-
lenger in this field:
“Since 1952 America’s post-
war domination of the world
airliner market has been severely
shaken. All foreign airlines that
have so far bought British gas-
turbines previously ‘flew
American,’ while many others,
watching gas-turbine develop-
ments, have chosen to shake their
heads at the new piston-engined
aircraft which America has set
before them, and bide their time.
“Apart from the Boeing project
the question of future American
high-speed transport-aircraft is
very much in the melting-pot,
and subject to considerable in-
decision both on the part of
manufacturers and operators —
military and civil,
“This indecision is engendered
largely, it seems, by uncertainty
over engine - development,
Current production centres on
Douglas’s D.C.7 and Lockheed’s
Super - Constellation, both
powered by turbo-compound
engines which represent the last
‘stretch’ of the piston engine,
“Lack of suitable engines for
transport-aircraft is America’s
greatest weakness, and on this,
apart from any ques tion of a
] ea( j j n a irframe design and
operating experience, the U.K.
may hold at least one trump
card
„ .. „ .
The Rolls-Royce Conway by-
P ass J*-engme, which is under


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices; •
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
THE TRUTH ABOUT
"McCARTHYISM"
Dr. Daniel A. Poling, world presi-
dent of the Christian Endeavour
Union, has summarised American
patriots’ view of Senator Joseph
McCarthy as follows:
“Senator McCarthy is a symbol.
He is a symbol of dynamic
More, he is America’s symbol of de-
fence that must become an offensive
all along the line.”
The current issue of the League of
Eights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
DIGEST contains an exposure of
the Communist-inspired world-wide
smear campaign being conducted
against Senator McCarthy. This ex-,
posure should be studied by all
those Australians who desire to
understand how the Communist con-
spiracy operates to destroy those
who attack it effectively.
Every issue of THE INTELLI-
GENCE DIGEST contains factual
material for the benefit of Austra-
lian patriots. By private subscrip-
tion only. £2/2/- per annum.
Single issues 4/- each.
The Victorian League of Rights,
313 Lt. Colling Street, Melbourne.
*N
/
m %
A f
mm
&»?®SSS
M
imt
mmmm
m
mm
Si
* i
i
wiSS
liiiiii
For all sports
w
For all occasions you can now buy
what every man wants snug-fitting,
comfortable, attractive Trousers.
From all over the world Stamina has
procured what are considered the
world’s best Trousers Trousers
fropi England, America, the Conti-
nent. Stamina’s experts have tried
them on, minutely examined them
to find any feature of value to you.
The result is the new Stamina model
a winner. If you want pleasure in
your leisure; style; comfort in your
sport, secure this world’s best Trouser
_ the STAMINA Trouser that, as one
man rightly put it, is ideal for every
wear everywhere.
I^Sicuiuita
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
able from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
TS-113
development, is designed essen-
tially for high-speed transports—
to power them at 575 m.p.h., the
limit of speed to which an air-
liner is likely to go, with the
maximum of fuel economy. It
will power the Vickers V.lOOO
troop transport, which will fly
next year.
“The Conway is recognised in
the U.S. as being superior in
principle to any known engine-
development for its purpose, and
in all the debate on jet, turbo-
prop and compound that is con-
founding U.S. plans, the Conway
is always wistfully hailed as the
most likely answer.
“The U.S. has no such engine
in prospect, and if the Conway’s
promise is proved in practice, the
U.S. will certainly want to use
it, either by building it under
licence or buying it direct.
“If this is the case, the wisdom
of selling it must be most care-
fully considered. The world
airliner market is high stakes,
and the Conway is a card not
lightly to be thrown away.”
Sweden
Taking an optimistic view of
the Swedish Government’s de-
cision to negotiate with Norway
on a joint defence project. New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ments editorially that the move
may mark “an important turning-
point in the history of North
Atlantic defence planning”;
“Hitherto the unwillingness of
Sweden to enter into any realistic
scheme of collective security has
been a serious handicap to the
West. Even Norway and
Denmark, linked as they are to
the Western alliance by common
experiences in the last war, were
reluctant to join Nato without
Swedish participation, feeling
that such action broke up the
Scandinavian unity they had
been especially anxious to
promote,
“Now Sweden proposes to
finance the installation of
storage-facilities and harbor-
works at Trondheim Fjord, on
the Norwegian coast. From this
terminus a pipeline would bring
oil 75 miles through the
Norwegian mountains to the
Swedish border, giving Sweden
a connection with the Western
world in case her outlet through
straits to the North Sea should
be blocked.
“The project has its com-
mercial usefulness in time of
peace, but it is as a war-time
measure, linking the cause of
Sweden with that of the Nato
nations, that it assumes major
importance.
“Sweden’s solid defensive
strength could be a distinct asset
to the Western alliance. With the
fourth-strongest Air Force in
the world, a far-from-negligible
Navy, a 600,000-man Army that
could be mobilised in a matter
of days and an elaborate under-
ground network of industrial and
military installations, she inter-
poses a formidable obstacle in the
path or on the flank of any
aggressor.
“Sweden’s neutrality in World
War II —especially in so far as
it permitted the transit of
German troops —made her some
bitter enemies in the Northern
countries. It is to be hoped that
her present course will reaffirm
the historic ties that bind Scan-
dinavians together and will bear
witness to the need of collective
action among all the nations of
the free world,”
Money and Gold
The news that six private firms
in London have quietly resumed
the buying and selling of gold
on an open market after a lapse
of 15 years has moved New
York’s “Wall Street Journal” to
comment that this “can prove
one of the most significant
economic things that has hap-
pened recently to Britain and the
Western trading world;
“For a generation the
economic thinking that has
dominated the policies of our
major Governments has been
that money can be successfully
divorced from any tangible
thing. It can be created by
printing pieces of paper and
these pieces of paper can be
manipulated at will by the cen-
tral authorities to make money
do their bidding.
“In the ’thirties every major
Government abandoned the
gold-standard. The arguments
were that a gold-standard limited
the quantity of money and
therefore limited a Government
in doing all the nice things it
ought to be doing for people.
Money wasn’t ‘flexible.’ By
abandoning gold, Government
authorities would become the
master instead of the slave of
money.
“The theorists algo said that
by arbitrarily fixing the price of
one country’s money relative to
another, the planners could
manage foreign trade to suit
themselves. This was particu-
larly appealing to Britain, whose
economy depends so heavily on
its position as a centre of world
trade.
“Well, it soon became appar-
ent that gold did not die so
easily. The Governments had to
prohibit anyone from exchang-
ing money for gold, and vice
versa, or else the open market
would make a liar out of the
Governments.
“The Governments might
announce that the money had a
certain value, while people in
the market-place valued it dif-
ferently. Governments might
say the pound was worth so
many dollars, while merchants,
by measuring both against gold,
said the actual exchange ratio
was something else.
“Nor did gold vanish upon
being outlawed. Daily through-
out the years gold has been
bought and sold and hoarded,
whatever the laws. Meanwhile,
within countries and in foreign
trade, moneys went right on
finding their own levels. Govern-
ments proved not to be such
masters after all. And their
efforts, instead of helping, only
disrupted the flow of trade be-
cause it had to go around or
over obstacles.
“As to why gold, of all com-
modities, should over the cen-
turies prove its endurance as a
money-standard, we will leave
to the philosophers. But it is
not hard to understand why
some commodity must perform
that role, be it silver or sheep
or a hunk of stone.
“The wisdom of history is that
money must represent something
tangible. If it does not, then
people are subject to robbery
and the whim of authority,
which can devalue their old
money by just printing new.
People will search out something
of relatively stable value pre-
cisely for the same reason —
stability—that the authorities do
not want them to have it.”
Dragnet Digest
H-Bomb . —Putting in a good
word for the hydrogen-bomb,
London “Economist” notes that
“one of its nicer characteristics
is that it is very reluctant to
explode. Extraordinarily high
temperatures and intricately-
adjusted conditions are needed
to set it off. In this respect it
sets something of an example
both to public opinion and to
public men —an example that
might be better heeded.”
U.N. Charter. Preparations
are being made to revise the
United Nations Charter, but,
comments David Lawrence,
editor of “U.S. News and World
Report,” there is not much
purpose in revising the Charter
“until there is a moral code
observed by the members. There
can be no substitute for good
faith and an allegiance to
solemnly-given pledges. It is
the character of some of the
members rather than the phrase-
ology of the Charter which
needs revision. There is no
room in any collective-security
system for the faithless and the
treasonable. The U.N. will begin
to thrive when it expels from its
membership unmoral Govern-
ments and establishes an alliance
of nations that are truly free.”
Canada. —British industrialist
Sir Andrew MacTaggart lately
opined that it would be a good
thing for both countries if
5,000,000 Britons were to migrate
to Canada in the next 10 years.
Affirming Canada’s capacity to
absorb them. Sir Clifford
Heathcote - Smith notes, in
London “Daily Telegraph,” that
“economically, Canada is first m
the world in the production of
nickel (90 per cent.), newsprint,
asbestos and platinum ; second in
output of hydroelectric power,
pulp, aluminium, gold and zinc;
third in silver, sawn lumber and
oats; fourth in wheat. There
have been spectacular discoveries
of oil, natural gas, and iron ore,
and also of titanium and cobalt,
and atomic-energy research has
been facilitated by plentiful
supplies of uranium.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The 40-hour Week
Our brand of civilisation owes its vast
material advances over the last century
chiefly to the discoverer, the inventor and
the organiser. The capitalist and the
unionist have helped a bit as exploiters,
but without the former trio they would
have had little scope even where their
efforts benefited the community gener-
ally. Capitalism over-exploited its oppor-
tunities, and now unionism is doing the
same.
No one wants a 60-hour week, but the
35-hour week is here for very many voca-
tions —when one allows for time lost in
starting and stopping, and for other
reasons, an employer is lucky to get,
over the five days, seven hours a day of
real work from his employees.
Again, in each year we have only 237
working-days, allowing for weekends,
public holidays, recreational-leave and
five days for sickness (many workers
cut-out their full allowed time).
Forty hours a week may be enough
to work for a living if it is
real work for the full time and
under present boom conditions,
but can it last? Our present prosperity
is based chiefly on inflation and artifici-
ally-high prices for our exports. For a
while we may be able to scrounge along,
lopting the country for its easily-garnered
wealth, as we have done in the past.
Uranium and oil may give us a transitory
prosperity, as gold, tin and silver have
done. They could also fail us.
But there is a mass of developmental
and conservation work to be done; thou-
sands of square miles of soil-, grass- and
forest-conservation, thousands of miles
of railways and roads to be made, hun-
dreds of dams to be built and hundreds
of miles of ditches to be dug, to name a
few more obvious items.
We may be getting along somehow
with a nominal 40-hours a week, but it
“And it's so much easier on your
muscles."
is costing us, and will continue to cost us,
far more than it gives us, —T. K. 11l (Q.).
The Koombana
“V.J.H.” will find little support for
his claim that the Koombana went down
“close inshore in water shallow enough
for diving-operations” (B. 7/4/’54). She
went down about 80 miles out of Hedland
(W.A.) and some distance west of Bedout
Island.
That position was established beyond
reasonable doubt. Part of her cargo was
a consignment of empty bottles, each
packed in a straw envelope. They were
deck-cargo, and would have been the
fir st to break loose when the ship turned-
turtle. When the searchers found a few
acres of sea covered with the straw enve-
lopes they knew they were near the posi-
tion of the wreck. They were in luggers
equipped for diving, and had those waters
been shallow enough for diving-opera-
tions the ship would probably have been
found.
“V.J.H.” says my theory of submarine
currents requires “an incredible number
of wrecks and disappearances in the tem-
perate seas.” Why “incredible”? Com-
monsense suggests hundreds, if not thou-
sands. During the height of the Spanish
and Portuguese rivalry ships of those
nations sailed in opposite directions from
Europe, the Dons travelling via the Horn
and the Portuguese rounding the Cape.
They met in the waters north of Australia,
and they once signed a treaty about New
Guinea and other islands. There are
scores of known wrecks on both sides of
our continent; who would care to guess
at the number of those old sailers who
never made their home ports?—W. J. W.
(W.A.).
Grammar
Many Australians speak badly because
they are taught too much grammar, the
teaching of which is a fetish in schools
although it bears little relation to the
child’s everyday speech.
Grammatical terms in use present a
problem in themselves to the pupil. It
is difficult enough to learn them without
having to learn their meanings and uses.
Subordinate and co-ordinate conjunc-
tions, relative adverbs, prepositions, are
high-sounding terms to describe what are
simply connecting words. Apart from
schoolteachers and pedants, few people
can remember what those terms mean,
nor do they find it any handicap not
knowing.
Many grammar rules are out of date.
Dr. Ballard argues that rigid rules are
satisfactory for a dead language, but use-
less for a language that is ever-developing.
The split-infinitive and the preposition at
the end of the sentence are two such rules.
My generation was taught that a split-
infinitive was enough to fail anyone in
English composition. To-day, we listen
to Fowler when he writes, in Modern
English Usage: “We will split the infini-
tive sooner than be ambiguous or arti-
ficial.” Yet I am still telling school-
children that they must not break this
rule.
Churchill put an end to the preposition
rubbish when he allegedly wrote “ up
with which I will not put.” Dr. Ballard
argues here that the so-called preposition
at the end of the sentence is not a preposi-
tion at all, but an adverb. I feel that most
schoolchildren and adults couldn’t care
less. If it is more convenient to say “Who
were you out with?” instead of “With
whom were you out?” or, worse still,
“Out with whom were you?” then why
should it matter whether “with” is a pre-
position, adverb or anything else?
Then there’s the torture of parsing in-
flicted upon children —“Stone”: common
noun, third person, singular number, neu-
ter gender, nominative case to the verb.
Little, if any, of that is of any use in
speaking correct English. The gender of
nouns in English is unnecessary. It is no
wonder that when we fill the heads of
kids with such balderdash they speak
badly.
Because so many marks are allotted
for grammar in the Intermediate Certifi-
cate, teachers find it profitable to drill
grammar as they drill mathematical for-
( mulae. I knew one lad who topped his
year in English mainly because of his high
marks in the grammar section, yet when-
ever he won the toss at cricket he greeted
the opposing captain with, “Youse will
oat.”
Those who do speak correctly (or, as
the pedant would have it, grammatically)
can rarely say why they do. Ask anyone
why he says “I have seen,” and not “I
seen.” His answer will not be “because
‘seen’ is the past-particple and must be
used with an auxiliary verb.” That’s the
clue to the teaching of correct English.
Constant usage of the correct phrases
and words and incidental correction of
errors will do more towards improving
spoken English than all the grammar
lessons ever given. Where correct speech
is concerned the child only needs to know
how, not why.
Incorrect phrases will either drop out of
use altogether or will eventually be
accepted as correct. The ugliness or
clumsiness of many will eliminate them-
“ Ain’t” is a word seldom heard now,
yet in my schooldays it was common.
Here its ugliness got rid of it, just as “I
"Wha' shay? Cant hold up traffic all day? It'sh not my fault, Sergeant.
It'sh that fool copper on the (hic) pedeshtal Won't put hish hand down !”
seen” will disappear in time. On the other
hand, the use of “who” instead of
“whom” is being accepted in such phrases
as “Who were you out with?”
When we remove the word “grammar”
from our curriculum we will get an im-
provement in the speech of our children.
At present they are too busy learning
grammar to learn to speak correctly.—
Wackford (N.S.W.)
Retire at 55?
I’d say that not more than one in 20
Commonwealth public servants favors
retirement at 55 (B. 24/3/’54). Actually,
superannuation payments (or equivalent)
are so inadequate in competition with
today’s wages and prices that those whose
retirement is imminent are already look-
ing for other jobs, however humble, to
supplement their future incomes. And
that has been the case with most Com-
monwealth employees shelved during the
past 10 years.
Some whose circumstances permit it
may welcome the prospect of an addi-
tional 10-years leisure, but they would
be few and far between. What mild
interest the suggestion has aroused has
been among the younger men; most of
the oldsters would willingly carry on to
70 if granted reasonable health and no
cut in screw.
Anyway, the likelihood of the proposal
becoming fact is slight; the Public Ser-
vice Board displays no anxiety to adopt
it. — Postscript (N.S.W.).
The N.T.
Complete tax-exemption would not
populate or finance the development of
the Northern Territory in a reasonable
time (B. 10/3/’54). Such concessions are
mere palliatives and an outworn method
verging on bribery.
Cecil Rhodes, with diamonds and a
charter company, laid the foundation for
what is now an embryo Dominion.
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer,
R. A. Butler, lately talked of finance for
worth-while Commonwealth develop-
ments. Could not a charter company and
uranium do for the N.T. what Rhodes
did for Rhodesia?
For success, the writ of such a com-
pany would have to run unchallenged
throughout the N.T. The company would
have its own police and be responsible for
port-development, railways, etc. It would
make its own migration arrangements and
the population would be encouraged to
become shareholders in it, any taxation
being a “tithe” to the company.
Beyond complying with broad prin-
ciples of Commonwealth policy—such as
no Asiatic migrants—the fewer strings
the better for the company. It could be
represented by a High Commissioner in
Canberra in the same way that Rhodes
had his envoy in Pretoria to deal with
Kruger.
Admitted the analogy breaks down
when comparing the respective climates
and availability of cheap labor, but noth-
ing short of a drastic shot of real free-
enterprise will save the N.T. — Rusty
(N.S.W.).
A Western Opportunity
The announcement that Lake Car-
gelligo (N.S.W.) is to be linked with one
of the State’s air-services might attract
someone’s attention to the business possi-
bilities of this little western town.
It has a population of 1100 and lies on
the shore of a beautiful freshwater lake
seven miles long and three miles wide.
The visitor immediately thinks of boat-
ing, fishing, swimming, picnics, irrigation
and all kinds of attractive ideas.
It is one of the few small country
towns which have permanent water and
sewerage, but beyond that nothing has
been done with the priceless asset lying
at the end of the main street.
During the war the lake was used as
a landing-place for seaplanes, and many
other things could be done there. A tour-
ist-resort, for instance, is usually a very
lucrative trade for any centre.
The town is a railhead and is well-
served by main roads. The climate is
usually hot, dry and bracing, and would
be ideal for health-seekers with bronchial
troubles. The lake should be a wonder-
ful attraction for holiday-makers from
the western half of the State,
It is in a good wheat-growing and
grazing area, the soil is rich red volcanic
and, with plenty of water always in the
lake, irrigation for fruit, vegetables,
lucerne and other crops is possible.
These are but some of the thoughts that
occur to me each time I visit the town.
Maybe I’m pretty green, but it does seem
that a golden opportunity is waiting there
for someone.—L. G. C. (N.S.W.).
Yarrangobilly
“Pat” need have no worry that the
activities of the Snowy Mountains people
will spoil altogether the delightful valley
of the Yarrangobilly (B. 24/3/’54).
The Yarrangobilly reserve, with its
caves, thermal-pool and hotel, will stay,
and will continue to be one of the most
beautiful, but inaccessible, spots of its
kind in Australia.
A spring or autumn drive through
Tumut and the valley of the river bearing
that name is one of the delights of N. S.
Wales. But even the best cars are
troubled by the climb up the “hill” on
the other side of Talbingo,' and drivers
of the latest vehicles are well-advised by
the sign to fill their radiators with the
silow-water of the little Talbingo before
attempting it.
The “hill” behind him, the driver has
in front some of the grandest scenery
Australia shows its tourists. But what
a road!
I saw Yarrangobilly Caves Hotel for
the first time on one of those autumn
mornings of the mountain country which
have to be felt to be believed. To my
surprise there were no more than 20
people sitting down to lunch. Inquiries
revealed that few took the trouble to
come that far, because the road was a
deterrent— Karrimba (Vic.).


OWNER AFTER OWNER TESTIFIES THAT . . .
Holden Stands Out For
Economy And Dependability
Dependability and economy, comfort, value for money
. . . everywhere in Australia these qualities have won
for Holden such sincere testimonials as these.
Mr. Carl W. Condon, commercial traveller, of
Summer Hill, N.S.W.: “The Holden Sedan I pur-
chased has now done 40,000 miles and is still going
as well as ever. My work takes me over all types
of roads. Petrol consumption has averaged between
31-32 m.p.g.”
Mr. L. J. Clarke, taxi operator, Pirie Street,
Adelaide, S.A.: “We are operating two Holden
Sedans with respective mileages of 385,000 and 312,000
miles. Both had done over 200,000 miles before the
original engine was replaced.”
These are extracts from owner letters. Hundreds
of similar testimonials praising Holden economy and
dependability are on file at GMH. See your Holden
dealer for details of the three different Holden Sedan
models the de luxe Special, the Business Sedan
and the economy model, Holden Standard, He
will gladly arrange a demonstration and prove to
you that Holden combines excellent 6-cylinder per-
formance and roomy 6-passenger comfort with
exceptional economy and
dependability.
Australia’s Own Car,
Australia’s
Own Utility,
In view of the very
heavy demand for “New-Look”
Holden Sedans and Utilities, we
suggest that you place your order
as soon as possible.
ẃ
HOLDEN *
Australia's Own Car
0 There are two Air Chief Car Radios
specially designed for Holden.
• Convenient hire purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C.
General Motors’ own finance
company. * Registered Trade Mark,
Once more, improvements ensure
Holden is better than ever
Between 1949 and the introduction of “New-Look”
Holden models, more than 30 improvements have
been incorporated in Holden as a result of the Holden
policy of constant improvement. Now these addit-
ional improvements have been made.
NEW REAR AXLE ASSEMBLY.
The new rear axle assembly
is easily serviced. It is
engineered for silent,
trouble-free operation. Im-
provements include new
taper roller pinion bearings
and new taper roller differ-
ential side bearings with
screw type adjustments.
ẅ
NEW REAR WHEEL BEARINGS.
Larger rear axle wheel bearings, with
increased load-carrying capacity and
longer life, further improve Holden’s
dependability.
INCREASED HAND BRAKE
LEVERAGE.
Leverage of the hand-brake has been
increased 60% . . . adding further
to Holden’s ease of handling.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
Where men die twice
by David Camphell
ONE Ton Lee died first
beside a bottle in the
centre of a plain. Trees
floated in the air all
around him and willy-willies
stood up like smokestacks in the
pale sky. A crow had been
following him for some miles,
dipping from tree to tree like
the loops of a telegraph-line.
And when at last the Chinaman
lay still the crow plumed his
blue feathers and glided down to
pace the cracked ground, edging
nearer, until he saw his glossy
image in the dead man’s eyes.
He was about to close with
this adversary when a cooee
went up from amongst the
floating trees. A blacktracker
was coming down, followed by
a whiteman in a jeep. The crow
flapped off into the dead centre
of the sky, ringing the plain
with his harsh cries.
The two men picked up the
dead Chinaman at the knees
and shoulders like a three-
bushels of wheat and dumped
him in the back of the jeep. The
white man sniffed at the bottle.
“Metho,” he said. “I won-
dered where it was going.”
“No more troubles now,” said
the blacktracker, showing a
double-line of perfect teeth.
They drove back to the home-
stead through the sighing belahs.
T ATER in the day a shaky van
■ L '' climbed down out of the
mirage and pulled up by the salt-
bush hedge. On the side of the
van in black letters was the
inscription:
Thos. Brown
Skin and Hide Merchant
Mail and Funeral Contractor
Thos. Brown, a man of jovial
flesh, climbed out and stood
under the coolibahs, slapping the
flies and scratching at the seat
of his pants.
“That’s all right,” he kept
saying. “Think no more about
it. I’ll see he’s put away nice.”
He handed out mail, papers
and bread from the back of the
van, stacked up sheepskins in
their place, laid One Ton out
on top and drove off back into
the sky.
Mirage water receded before
him ; a town shimmered on the
horizon and settled down on to
the plain. It was Sandy Cros-
sing. A dozen houses faced one
another across the stockroute,
and where the town ended a
white bridge leapt a gutter of
sand. River-gums queued into
the distance, waiting for rain.
On the veranda of the pub, half
a dozen men in wide-brimmed
hats waited, too.
Thos. Brown pulled in under
the pepper-trees beside a new red
van inscribed:
Chas. Rose
Skins & Hides
Salt, Licks & Dips
in gold lettering.
Before easing himself into the
dust he lifted a finger to two
loungers propping up the
weatherboard walls of the bar.
The loungers camq over and
leaned against the van. While
they yarned Chas. Rose thrust a
chin out of the bar several times
to see that no one was scribbling
hearts or John loves Mary in the
dust on his new van.
“It’s a deal, then,” Thos. said
and walked through the naked
sunlight to the blind shade in
the bar.
“Schooner,” he said in dark-
ness.
THE darkness sorted itself out
into a timbered counter
backed by bottles, a scene re-
peated in the glass behind. At
the far end of the counter Chas.
Rose leaned on an elbow, lost
in mirrored distances —a tall
man, lean as the drought, with
a moiith that followed the thin
line of his jaw. The barmaid,
while the schooner settled, was
arranging an icy curl between
two bottles of rum.
“Business looking up?” she
said to her image in the glass.
“Terrible,” said Thos. “Have
one yourself, Mary.”
“I don’t mind if I do,” she
told the curl,
“Terrible,” said Thos.; “the
way the sheep are dying. Makes
you cry to see it,”
“Just a drop of gin,” said
Mary, “for the stomach’s sake.”
“Terrible for the man-on-the-
land. Dying almost too quick to
skin.”
“A girl gets lonely,” Mary
said, pouring a nip. “So few
gentlemen. Only my second
today.”
“Terrible,” said Thos., “what
the flies do to the skins.”
Chas. Rose suddenly came out
of the mirror and thrust a jaw
into the sunlight.
“Critters! ” he said. “Nothing
better to do than scribble on a
man’s goods!”
“Terrible.”
“Tom loves Mary,” said
Chas. “Immoral, I calls it. And
hearts.”
“Terrible, A schooner, Mr.
Rose?”
“I expect it couldn’t taste
worse Then there’s the
dogs.”
“Terrible.”
“Lifting their legs.”
“Another, Mr. Rose?”
“No one else to drink
with And them crows in
the pepper-trees.”
“Terrible.”
“Some day I’ll catch some
c0ve....”
“Schooner, Mr. Rose?”
“Here!” Thos. came under
the blue eye of Rose. “What
are you up to? Trying to get
a man drunk, heh? Ousting the
opposition, heh? I’ve a good
mind..,. Wait a minute.”
At the door he let out a wild
bush hollo.
“A Chinaman!” he cried.
“On me back wheel!”
'THOS. walked to the door, and
sure enough, a Chinaman
was leaning over Chas.’s new
van. Chas. himself, rolling up a
sleeve, was stalking him, lifting
sharp knees and walking on the
insides of his soles. In the
pepper-shade he drew back,
showing the long under-white of
an arm, and caught the China-
man full on the ear.
“Got ’im!” he cried. “Got
’im. Just what I been waiting
for.”
He sparred around the fallen
man in the ring of shade.
“Out!” he cried. “Out cold!
Out like a light! All right, boys,
the drinks are on me.”
Slowly Thos. walked over to
him.
“Here!” he said. “Wait a
minute, wait a minute. This
doesn’t lopk too good.”
He kneeled down in the dust
and rested his ear against the
Chinaman’s chest. His sideways
eyes held Chas., rooted in shade.
“He’s out, all right,” he said.
“He’s out good and proper.
He’s out for good.”
The other turned to the color
of stone.
“Help him up, help him up,”
he cried. “Easy does it. I’ll
take him home in the back of
the van.”
“No, you don’t,” said Thos,
“You don’t cut me out on this
one. I’m the undertaker around
here.”
/'"HAS. was clambering into
the front seat of his new van.
“Justifiable homicide,” he
cried. “I did it all in self-
defence. Not guilty.”
And the last they saw of him
was a red van way up in the
sunset above the white railings
of the bridge.


htts
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
WBmm
■■ •>- . w..-
Si*■'/'
r -
mm
f
'
*
*
'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Doggy" Wool
“Sheepo”: Merino wools on
the show-floors of various
Sydney brokers displayed an
increase of “doggy” wools, in
large and small clips alike. High
prices are mainly responsible. A
grower isn’t going to cull out his
“doggies” to fatten—or to feed
the dogs—while he is getting
good prices. But if a slump came
he wouldn’t be able to give the
inferior stuff away.
Of course, it’s hard to blame a
man for taking advantage of the
times. But classers are develop-
ing a bad habit of “hiding” these
inferior fleeces among those of
good quality. Surprising how
buyers find them though, once
they start delving.
“Doggy” wool is due to neglect
in culling those ewes of inferior
type that have worse lambs; an
atavistic tendency marked in
sheep, and only kept in check by
rigorous culling. A good many
new men have gone in for sheep,
too, with post-war prices, and the
general inflationary tendency has
peculiar dangers for the Merino.
Chemical Defoliation
“Medicago”; A large quantity
of lucerne-seed is lost in harvest-
ing when direct heading is
attempted for the sake of
economy. This loss is caused
by the seed being carried through
the machine with the mass of
green material from which it will
not properly shake free.
The N.S.W, Department of
Agriculture is about to under-
take some experiments (at
Wagga and Coolah) in the use
of chemical sprays which will
dry the leaves and stems, or
defoliate the crop, and still leave
the crop standing with the seed
unharmed for dry and efficient
harvesting, like any naturally-
matured crop.
In similar tests in Canada best
results were obtained with a
spray of diesel- or aromatic-oil
with the addition of dinitro
compounds.
Molybdenum
“Momba”; Deficiency of
molybdenum is most often
associated with either naturally
poor or leached acid soils of
relatively low fertility, especially
in nitrogen.
Pastures are usually recom-
mended for such soils, but good
pastures cannot be grown on
them without the addition of
nitrogen. Associated legumes,
such as clovers, are the cheapest
means of providing this, but the
nitrogen-fixing, nodule-forming
organisms do not thrive on an
acid soil, and will not work
without molybdenum.
This is one of the fundamental
reasons why the application of
some lime, together with a trace-
amount of molybdenum, is giving
good results on some country
considered, until recently, the
poorest grazing-land in Australia.
Another reason is that phos-
phate-supplies from the Pacific
Islands are completely devoid of
molybdenum, while native
American and North African
phosphate-rocks may contain up
to jib. of molybdenum per ton.
This also explains why
molybdenum-deficiency is largely
peculiar to Australia and New
Zealand,
New Grain-box
H. V. McKay Massey Harris
report the introduction of a 38-
bushel bulk grain-box, with an
independently-driven unloading
auger, for Sunshine Headers.
Unloading the grain-box, with
its high-speed auger, takes only
a minute and a half without the
driver leaving the tractor-seat.
Total unloading time to trucks or
paddock storage-bin is approxi-
mately three-quarters of an hour
for an average day’s harvest of
1000 bushels from 30 acres of a
12-bag crop. The new boxes
also have two outlets for the
bagging of grain.
Clearance of Bft. 6in. allows
the mouth of the chute to reach
over any normal bulk-truck or
paddock storage-bin. Drive to
the unloading auger is direct from
the tractor power-shaft, the
clutch disengaging the header
mechanism while the auger is
unloading. A spring-loaded
bracket holds the control-lever
firmly in either engaged or dis-
engaged positions to safeguard
the header mechanism and the
auger drive.
Engineers and technicians have
been working for many months
to perfect the independent
unloading mechanism of the new
grain-box. Usually while grain
was unloading the mechanism of
the stationary header was also
running, to the detriment of the
machine and any grain in it.
The new boxes are made of
galvanised-iron rigidly bolted to
the header-frame, and the
integral construction carries the
weight of the grain on the big
main wheel of the machine, so
little, if any, extra horse-power
is ever involved, regardless of the
condition of the ground.
Possibility of blockage is
eliminated by the grain-box floor
sloping to the central point where
the auger mouth is located.
The new grain-box is available
with the new No. 4 and No. 6
Sunshine headers.
Clover-lea and Wheat
“Mr.”: Clover-lea farming,
which originated in Victoria at
the Rutherglen Research Station,
and which has produced spec-
tacular results in the north-east
district, is now being practised
farther afield.
In Department of Agriculture
tests in Victoria, at Lismore and
Tatyoon in the western district,
wheat yields on land out to
clover-pasture for several years
have increased considerably with
the addition of moderate quan-
tities of super. At Lismore yields
were: No manure, 11.7 bushels
an acre; 901 b. super., 354
bushels ; 1801 b., 44.9 bushels. At
Tatyoon the no-manure plot
yielded 15.7 bushels an acre;
561 b. super, bumped-up the yield
to 23.4 bushels and 1121 b. to 30
bushels.
These yields leave a handsome
margin of profit after paying for
the super. Varieties recom-
mended by the department for
this district are, Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Magnet, Diadem and
Insignia.
Fodder-beet
“Beta”: The new fodder-beet
(B. 7/4/’54), a cross between
mangold and sugar-beet, is
certainly superior to all other
root-crops, with its higher
tonnage-per-acre and its rela-
tively high feed-value.
Cold Northern European
countries, in which fodder-beet
has largely replaced mangolds,
are considerably dependent upon
root-crops for winter (and to
some extent also for summer)
feed, despite these crops’ very
high labor requirement and high
cost of production. This is
particularly so on small farms
and poor land, where the choice
of suitable crops is narrow, and
even grass is not very productive.
U.S.A. also has mostly a severe
winter climate, but few root-
crops are grown in that country,
because a warm summer enables
green-fodder crops (such as
maize) to be grown and con-
served as silage for cattle and
grain for pigs much more
cheaply than root-crops can be
grown.
In our milder winter, Aus-
tralian dairy- and pigfarmers
have cheaply-grown winter
fodders in addition to a wide
choice of grain- and fodder-
crops, and are able to dispense
largely with silage, depending
greatly on pastures, which are
the cheapest of all.
However valuable the dis-
covery of the new fodder-beet
may be in Europe, it is unlikely
that our farmers will make much
use of it. Labor involved is
against general adoption of any
root-crop in this country. The
peasant of Northern Europe
works extremely hard.
Sowing for Pasture
“Myrr”: Defer sowing until
the first soaking autumn rains,
which will stimulate strong
seedling growth before winter.
R. L. Twentyman, of the Vic-
torian Department of Agri-
culture, advises applying some
artificial fertiliser at sowing, as
most Victorian soils (it holds for
Tdiking of prices; back in 1946 this Shorthorn bull brought
£15,225 sterling at the Perth ( Scotland) Show.
most Australian soils) are
deficient in phosphates.
Twentyman states that a satis-
factory pasture should be estab-
lished with reasonable dressings
of superphosphate, because if one
or two bags of super, an acre
isn’t effective half-ton dressings
are not likely to produce any
marked improvement; look for
other causes of failure.
Sow grass- and clover-seed
shallowly, using a grass-seed
attachment on the drill, combine
or fertiliser-spreader. A fine,
crumbly seedbed is a necessity,
as the small grass- and clover-
seeds don’t “take” well if sown
deeply or in cloddy ground.
Lopping
“Breck”: Don’t lop the ever-
green trees in the autumn. Stock,
homestead and crop need their
protection against winter winds.
When planted in numbers they
help reduce severity of frosts.
American statistics show that the
paddock sheltered by windbreaks
is several degrees warmer in
winter and cooler in summer.
Plan to lop in the early spring.
Sap is then rising, the growth
sprouts quickly in the mild
weather and is not cut back by
the heat.
Not all trees should be lopped.
It’s a safe rule to lop only the
trees that sucker from the stem,
not the trees that sucker from
the roots. Kurrajongs, Moreton
Bay figs, pittosporum and
eucalypts, etc., will stand lop-
ping ; but no wattle will stage a
sturdy comeback after it. Pines
and coniferous trees should not
be lopped. On the other hand,
broken, dead or diseased
branches of any tree should be
cut away.
The old practice was to lop
back eucalypts heavily, leaving
only two or three stub branches.
Today’s practice is to prune
fairly heavily and bring the tree
into a symmetrical shape.
Results are twofold: the tree
makes a quicker comeback and
gives the wide shade-cast which
the stock need.
Old trees have not the energy
to respond to heavy lopping, and
may die. They should be only
lightly pruned. Trees get
approximately 90 per cent, of
their air through the leaves, the
rest through the bark. The old
trees need lots of breathing-
equipment.
In cutting away large branches
use a saw instead of an axe.
Make the cuts on the slant, so
that the new surface will not
retain moisture and become a
garden for fungi and insect pests.
Reasonably light lopping will
check growth, induce develop-
ment of thicker foliage, keep the
tree healthy and increase its life-
span.
Deciduous trees should be
pruned back before the leaf-buds
burst.
Desert-ash
"Breck”: A tree of the
Caucasus, and generally listed
as suitable for cool areas, the
desert-ash {Fraxinus oxycarpa )
does well in many of Australia’s
warmer climates.
At Adelaide, where summer
temperatures often exceed the
century and the soil is mainly
limestone, an avenue of desert-
ash gives North Terrace shade
and distinction. Most of these
trees, about 25ft. high, are about
30 years old. Hundreds have
been planted elsewhere around
the city.
The desert-ash is also to be
found in scores of inland towns
where a tree of moderate size
that will give shade in summer
and let in sunlight in winter is
needed. Its bright-green foliage
is a good foil to our Australian
gums. One of the first trees to
break into leaf in the spring, it
holds its leaves (turned yellow by
autumn) till well into the
winter.
It is ideal for homestead-
planting, but is not suitable for
stock paddocks.
Bee Stocktaking
“B-herd”; In the north of
N.S.W. the autumn and winter
prospects aren’t encouraging.
Some of the stringies on the high-
lands are carrying patchy bud
which may offer work for the
bees, but in the foothills, and
over the Queensland border,
hives aren’t doing so well. Some
have starved, and, by the look
of other stands, a majority of
colonies won’t see the early part
of winter, much less survive it.
Too-heavy robbing early in the
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
Bf® time of the final autumn rains has now come, and
these should occur from now to the middle of May. After
that, except on the far north coast of Queensland and along
the southern littoral and adjoining inland, the dry, cold
period should set in, with reliefs in August and October.


A SELF CONTAINED
ISANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
w
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage ii
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SAN TARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS:'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
ŵ
Until you see them in use
you won’t credit the work
The "FARMERS' BOY"
CULTIVATING TEETH
will do, and they are sup-
plied with the Standard
Tractor for £126/16/6
F.O.R. Capital Cities.
For the many other uses to
which
The "FARMERS' BOY"
can be put, apply to your State
Distributor for particulars and
demonstration:
Queensland : BUZACOT T’S
(QUEENSLAND), LTD., 443
Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA2631.
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-
OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young
St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-
OPERATIVE, LTD., 90 - 92
William St., Melbourne.
MU8551.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74
Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
GUARD
Oa&h/
*Mth/as
PROTECTA
StU RigitiUiUtg.
TILL
ẁ
Suitable for every type of bu*lne»» i« record*
all Sale*. Credit*. Payout* etc- Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
i'LU'lli .. ..Docket Book Co. (.Aunt.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F, W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman ; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone; BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Slates.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold foater and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BUMS!
mim »*«
Oi
KTM MUM
I ‘ i ~*Sr>--4S$Ss •rr~~~~~
t, . -
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
PHINOVIS
A D E MARK
LIQUID j
THE NEW
WHY NOT
BEFORE?
SUPERFINE
QUALITY
MAINTAINS
STABILITY
MORE
EFFICIENT
THE
BETTER
LIQUID
PHENOTHIAZINE
The introduction of "Phenovis” Liquid Pheno-
thiazine was delayed following new research
findings that the efficiency of Phenothiazine
could be markedly increased by using
extremely fine particles in the formula.
ICIANZ Ltd. has developed an entirely nev*
formula of very fine particles of,Phenothiazine.
There are no mixing, caking or clogging
worries with the new “Phenovis” Liquid.
Once thoroughly stirred, complete suspension
is ensured for your day’s drenching.
Because of the higher quality and increased
efficiency of its technical components,
“Phenovis” Liquid gives you a drench that
is more economical and the latest in up-to-
date research.
(LIQUID)
ICI
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
N.S.W. Joint Distributors;
Wilcox Ltd., Grazcos Co-op. Ltd.,
15 Phillip St., Sydney. 46 Young St., Sydney^
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
PHE.22N.4397
war and dearth of nectar are of
course responsible In the foot-
hills country white-box has
broken into heavy bloom (in
some localities), but the bees
starve under the trees. No rain
has fallen since the February
cyclone rains, and this probably
has had an influence on nectar-
secretion (though the behavior of
some other trees seems to con-
tradict this theory).
In the north-coastal corner the
belbowrie is reported to be going
more to new wood than to flower.
Though this little tree will come
again twice before the winter is
through, the first poor blooming
will have its effect on hungry
bees moved long distances.
There are headaches in store
for the migratory men before the
start of next season’s stuff. The
back-yarder should see that the
bees have a reserve of honey and
that the lids are down tight, and
should unite any that haven’t
the numbers to hold out against
the coming cold six months.
While-eye of Ducks
“H.”: Once white-eye gets
going deaths may range from 30
to 100 per cent. Deficiency of
vitamin A in green-feed, too
little green-feed, or lack of fish-
liver-oils lowers the birds’ resist-
ance to an infectious organism
causing the disease. Dirty, wet
or cold conditions provide a
breeding-ground for start and
spread of the disease. The
trouble is often started by a
duckling in the downy stage get-
ting chilled. Outbreaks some-
times occur without apparent
cause.
From four days to two months
is the dangerous age. Most duck-
lings are less susceptible after six
weeks; they rarely catch it after
eight weeks.
The scourge goes from duck
to duck within a clutch, then
from clutch to clutch very
rapidly. You can’t mistake the
signs. The ducklings may stagger
round for half an hour, then die;
if they linger, course of the
disease may run over a fortnight.
A discharge of tears from the
eyes wets the down. Sneezing
starts. Within 12 hours the eyes
are covered with a whitish film
and the cornea is white and
opaque. When the cavity below
the eyes which connects with the
nose is distended with mucous
matter, breathing is badly
affected. Diarrhoea may develop.
The birds may weaken till they
can’t stand. Once they roll on
their backs and commence to
kick and struggle, there’s little
chance of saving them. Birds
that recover may remain carriers.
Don’t confuse white-eye with
simple green-feed deficiency. In
white-eye, post-mortem will show
the mucous membrane to be
inflamed. Death-rate will be
high.
Isolate the birds as soon as
the symptoms begin, so that non-
infected clutches can’t contact
infected ones. Bathe the eyes
with a solution of loz. zinc
sulphate in 2\ pints of water.
To control, make-up the de-
ficiency of vitamin A in the diet
with good green-feed or by mix-
ing 1 to 2 per cent, of fish-liver-
oil in the mash. Build water-
troughs so that the ducklings can
get their heads into them but
not their bodies, and thus avoid
chills. Don’t buy birds from
farms on which the disease has
occurred.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: Kerosene is
the main ingredient for successful
treatment of scaly-leg. Scrub
with warm soapy water to loosen
any old scales, then dip the
affected shank into a container
of any one of the following:
Kerosene and oil in equal parts ;
sump-oil; one-part kerosene and
two-parts linseed-oil; plain
kerosene. Where kerosene is
used on its own, take care it does
not touch the skin of the bird’s
leg. For raw spots, rub-m
petroleum-jelly to eliminate the
sting. Whatever treatment is
decided on, several applications
will probably be needed to
eliminate the parasite.
“Garden”: Expose the root of
the young Sodom apple when
weeding—simple and painless
way of extracting the prickly pest
is to tug from that end.
“Konanda”: Wood-wool in
the ducks’ sleeping-quarters
makes comfortable bedding, and
can be dug into the garden later.
Plants like it.
“A.”: Later-summer rains
often cause facial eczema in
sheep. Try shutting them up at
the rate of 100 to the acre as
soon as rains come and keeping
them confined until the pasture
hardens. If crops of kale, rape,
turnips or chou-moellier are
available they can be safely
grazed during the dangerous
period.
“Toggenburg”: Goats are
fussy feeders, humorists notwith-
standing. Avoid running hands
through hair if a scented hair-
oil is used, and keep away from
strong-smelling soap if you must
handle their food. Better to mix
the daily feed with a clean stick
than to risk spoiling it —no goat.
will eat what it doesn’t like.
When dried food is exposed to
rain, clean the containers every
day, as mould will soon spoil the
rations. The milch-goat on a
rich diet based on a hot mash in
the morning will need the con-
tainer thoroughly washed and
dried.
“Big Billy”: Celery is diffi-
cult but satisfying in the home
garden. You need a good water-
supply, and beds into which
fowl- or farmyard-manure has
been well dug. Use also ferti-
lisers comprising nitrogen, phos-
phorus and potassium (1:2:1).
Double or treble rows, 12in.
apart, with plants Sin. to 12in.
apart, are usual for the self*
blanching types. If trenches are
used single rows should be 15in.
wide; double, 2ft.; both 12in.
deep. Trench-planting is more
suitable to colder or irrigation
areas.
“My”: Use a Bordeaux mix-
ture, 6:6:40 (61b. bluestone,
61b. slaked-lime in 40gals. water)
as a routine spray on peach-,
nectarine-, cherry-, apricot- and
plum-trees at the “pink-bud”
stage (late August, early Sep-
tember in Victoria). This helps
control brown-rot in these fruits
and is effective also for scab in
apricots, prune-rust on plums
and curly-leaf in peaches.
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
now —your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


themes, mostly harking back to his
steeplechasing days in England, remotely
to be compared with Paterson in the field
of the bush ballad.
But if that strange white monstrous
effigy of the Engishman who came out
here with his head full of Swinburne and
Browning and wrote, before he shot him-
self, “The Sick Stockrider” and “Wolf
and Hound,” be taken to mean that Gor-
don was one of the prime originating
forces in the Australian ballad and that
Australian poetry —certainly up to the
’nineties and perhaps even to-day —may
fairly be represented by a balladist, then
there is no real need to complain of the
honored place he occupies: for his in-
fluence on the ballad is clear, and I do
think that the bush ballads, taken as a
body, are the most distinctively national
statement Australian poetry has yet made.
What is being accomplished by to-day’s
writers may be left to to-morrow for
assessment.
I mention Gordon’s bust because, itself
the subject of many a wordy buffeting, it
is a central point in the controversy which
has long raged about the ballad in
general. To-day, with scholars hunting
for its origins and ballad sessions pre-
sented to a respectable audience by the
Australian Broadcasting Commission,
the form seems much less unpopular
with what I suppose I must call the
intelligentsia than it was, say, ten or
twenty years ago ; indeed it seems to be
assuming its proper status as a vigorous
movement of the past and a repository of
Australian tradition.
Yet there is no doubt about the fury
which the popular over-estimation of the
balladists aroused —and very understand-
ably in the circumstances —in lovers of
poetry in the years when Henry Lawson,
Paterson and the popular rhymer C. J.
Dennis were known and loved from one
end of the country to the other, and sold
their books by the thousand, while lyrists
such as Hugh McCrae and even the more
approachable Shaw Neilson were all but
unknown except to the handful of con-
noisseurs who bought them in limited
editions. And the situation, though clari-
fying with time, is still confused. On the
one hand it is still customary, especially
among politicians, to refer to Henry Law-
son as a “poet” ; and on the other hand
we have the corrosive reviews with which
some of the daily-newspaper critics
greeted the admirable collected ballads
(Saddle for a Throne ) of Will Ogilvie as
recently as 1953 —not on the grounds
that they were inferior ballads, which
they are certainly not, but simply because
they dared to be ballads at all.
To appreciate the ballad in its own
right and on its own grounds, neither
over-rating nor under-rating it, I think
that it should be admitted, first of all,
that it is in general an inferior form of
poetry.
If we look at successful examples of
the form, whether the Robin Hood cycle
or the sequence we have selected on the
Kelly gang, whether “Sir Patrick Spens”
dr “The Man from Snowy River,” we
see that essentially it is a story of swift
action. In ancient times it was,chanted
to the accompaniment of the harp ; in
the Australian period I think the balladist
always, consciously or unconsciously,
composed verses that could readily be
recited to popular audiences —around the
drovers’ campfire or at social gatherings
in the woolshed. Neither subtlety of
thought nor subtlety of rhythm was
required: in fact, either might have
defeated the balladist’s fundamental pur-
pose of telling an exciting or amusing
story in a style of verse that could be
instantly understood and appreciated by
a largely untutored audience. Nor, again,
except in occasional explorations of the
field by poets ’ of a much higher order
such as Longfellow or Coleridge, have
the majority of popular ballads been com-
posed by writers capable of more subtlety
of thought and technique than they dis-
play; they write for primitive times and
they share, though gifted with the com-
mand of words, much of the primitiveness
of their audience.
Although the ballad is thus generally
blunter in sensibility, shallower in thought
and more elementary in technique than
poetry of the highest order I do not
suggest that it is necessarily inferior. On
the contrary it can sometimes, as in the
best of the Border ballads, be deeply
exciting and beautifully accomplished
poetry as well as magnificent balladry.
The necessity for simplicity can result,
sometimes, not in mere naivety but in a
fine purity of style ; the necessity for a
story by no means precludes an adven-
ture of the imagination while it positively
invites the dramatic element in poetry:
which, if presented clearly and musically
and with sufficient emotional depth, can
more than compensate in its intensity for
anything it may lack in the more subtle
analysis of character such as we get in
Browning’s monologues.
Such glittering flights of the imagina-
tion as “Thomas the Rhymer” and “Tam
Lin,” such extraordinary penetrations into
the fairyland of old tradition, of dreams,
of eternity or of the subconscious mind
of man, are not separable into a category
of ballads as distinct from and inferior
to poetry, but, like “The Ancient Mariner”
or “La Belle Dame Sans Merci,” later
adventures in the same enchanted terri-
tory, are simply the one thing, ballad-
poetry ;
She’s pu’d him frae the milk-white steed
An’ loot the bridle fa’.
An’ up there rase an eldritch cry,
“True Tam Lin he’s awa’ !”
They shaped him in her arms twa
An aske but and a snake;
But aye she grips and hau’ds him fast
To be her warldis make.
They shaped him in her arms twa
But and a deer sae wild;
But aye she grips and hau’ds him fast.
The lather o’ her child.
They shaped him in her arms twa
A hot iron at the fire;
But aye she grips and hau’ds him fast
To be her heart’s desire.
They shaped him in her arms at last
A mother-naked man;
She cast her mantle over him,
And sae her love she wan.
Neither are the best of the dramatic
ballads, such as “Edward, Edward,” in
its perfect purity of style and its fierce
intensity of emotion—like the essence of
a Macbeth or a King Lear distilled into
lyric form —anything less than great
ballad-poetry; that is to say, great
poetry:
“And what will ye do wi’ your tow’rs and
your ha’,
Edward, Edward?
And what will ye do wi’ your tow’rs and
your ha’,
That were sae fair to see, O?” —
“I’ll let them stand till they doun fa’,
Mither, mither;
I’ll let them stand till they doun fa’,
For here never mair maun I be, O.”
“And what will ye leave to your bairns and
your wife,
Edward, Edward?
And what will ye leave to your bairns and
your wife,
When ye gang owre the sea, O?”
“The warld’s room: let them beg through
life,
Mither, mither;
The warld’s room: let them beg through
life;
For them never mair will I see, O.”
Here, clearly, their names lost for ever
in the grey Scottish mist, were minds as
subtle and artists as skilled as any that
ever worked in poetry. But when you
turn from the fairy ballads and the keen-
est miniature dramas of clan against clan,
lover against husband or son against
father or mother —dreadful deeds like
those of the Greek tragedies that take on
their intensity from something unnatural,
almost supernaturally wrong, in the crime
—to the simpler stories of action such as
“Chevy Chase” or the Robin Hood series
there is obviously a drop in the poetic
content. Ringing lines, flashes of poetry,
still occur at intervals ; but there is no
more enchantment, the drama is no longer
crystallised with the same burning inten-
sity, the technique is generally more facile
with a considerable infusion of doggerel.
The aim is primarily to tell a good story,
to put a memorable piece of history or
folk-lore into the shape of easy verse,
enlivening it with simple strokes of
pathos or humor:
“O here is the Bishop of Hereford,
And no pardon we shall have.”—
“Cut off his head, master,” said Little John,
“And throw him into his grave.”—
“O pardon, O pardon,” said the Bishop,
“O pardon, I thee pray!
For if I had known it had been you,
I’d have gone some other way.”
Curiously, for he cannot on the whole
be ranked very highly as a balladist, I
think it was Henry Lawson who, in the
whole field of Australian balladry, came
closest to writing ballad-poetry as dis-
tinct from the ballad pure and simple.
Most of Lawson’s verse is not ballad at
all but a kind of vers de societe, a
mechanical rhyming on themes of politics
or sociology. Verses which, telling a story,
do come into the category of the ballad,
are very often marred by sentimental and
improbable anecdotes —one wonders how
he could have brought himself to take
that final plunge into popular Christmas
sentiment in “The Fire at Ross’s Farm”
—or by his attempts to elevate the hope-
less drunkards and wastrels of country
towns into figures of heroic mythology.
A few vigorous ballads of action, such
as “Talbragar,” were probably written
under the influence of Paterson —Lawson
himself was no horseman. But one aspect
of the epic of the Australian outback to
which Lawson always did respond, as so
many of his short-stories attest, was the
tragedy of the lonely woman, the wife
left to battle with that enormous wilder-
ness while her husband was away drov-
ing ; and in his brief sequence of droving
ballads he contrived to put into verse the
same deep humanity that characterises
the best of his prose. I do not know any-
thing else in Australian balladry that
sounds so forlornly tragic, or that comes
so close to the ghostly enchantment of
the Border ballads, ■ as the concluding
stanza of his “Ballad of the Drover,”
after Harry Dale, his returning hero, has
been drowned:
Across the flooded lowlands
And slopes of sodden loam
The packhbrse struggles bravely
To take dumb tidings home;
And mudstained, wet and weary,
He goes by rock and tree,
With clanging chains and tinware
All sounding eerily.
There is a sharper tragic intensity in the
ballads of Barcroft Boake, whose very
name with its sound of a raven’s croak
seems to foreshadow his early death by
his own hand (he hanged himself with his
stockwhip), and whose talent, had it
ripened, might have carried him further
in the dramatic ballad than any other
Australian writer; there is some very
charming poetry, of a rather light kind,
in some of the songs of night and love
and solitude by Will Ogilvie; there are
many other writers whose ballads in lines,
in stanzas or in the entire piece, as in
Rbderic Quinn’s “Dead Horse Gate,”
have much of the quality of poetry as
well as of balladry: but on the whole I
do not think there is any Australian
ballad—not even “The Ballad of the
Drover,” or any of the pieces mentioned
—which can be ranked with the visionary
or dramatic masterpieces of Border
ballad-poetry. Time will lay on them its
enriching patina; but it remains an
immense distance from the deep core of
poetry in
‘The curse of hell frae me salt ye bear,
Mither, mither;
The curse of hell frae me sail ye bear:
Sic counsels ye gave to me, O.”
to the broad sunlit plains of the typical
Australian ballad where
’Twas his shearing mate who wrote it, and
verbatim I will quote it,
“Clancy’s gone to Queensland droving, and
we don’t know where he are.”
It is an interesting speculation as to
how far such excellent Australian bailad-
ists as Paterson, Ogilvie and the author
of that splendid bustiranging ballad “The
Death of Ben Hall” could have gone in
ballad-poetry had social conditions been
different. Far enough, perhaps. But
social conditions in Australia in the ’nine-
ties were, of course, profoundly and in-
superably different from medieval social
conditions on the Scottish Border.
Behind “Tam Lin” lay centuries of
literal belief in fairyland, the old pagan
religion. But except for some very
dubious importations in the poetry of
David McKee Wright—probably, like
Roderic Quinn, a better balladist than
a lyrist —there were no fairies in Aus-
tralia: consequently, no ballads of fairy-
land.
Though most of the deserted huts in the
outback were reputed to be haunted, and
though Fisher’s Ghost had reliably been
reported sitting on its post-and-rail fence
near Campbehtown, New South Wales,
there was no serious, general belief in
apparitions; consequently no ghostly
balladry of any consequence. Such bogies
as did creep into the ballads all seem very
bogus; even Paterson’s “Rio Grande” is
only a pale and unconvincing imitation
of “The Ancient Mariner” ; and indeed,
so far as I recall, the only ghost that has
really appealed to me in Australian litera-
ture is the one the swagman saw when
he threw “Matilda” into the waterhole:
A startled night-bird gave a scream and
flapped across his sight—
“ Matilda’s ghost!” he gasped, and fled, a
madman through the night.
While ballads of the supernatural were
thus practically forbidden territory to the
Australian writers if they were to deal
sincerely in what moved and interested
them, the dramatic ballad-poetry of the
Border was also, if not quite a prohibited
field, one that could be entered only rarely
and with difficulty.
There were no warring clans: conse-
quently, no ballads of clan warfare —the
basis on which rests the entire body of
Bprder balladry, and without which, the
clash of man against man with the pas-
sions aroused to killing, dramatic litera-
ture can hardly exist. There was no
aristocracy, in the sense of royalty and
titled nobility and great families estab-
lished for generations; consequently it
was difficult for the ballads to be elevated
to that august plane of society where
great men become symbolic representa-
tives of the commonalty ; that elevation
which both Aristotle and Matthew Arnold
declare is necessary for the poetic drama
and which appears equally vital for the
highest form of the ballad, if Edward’s
murder of his father or Lord Randal’s
being poisoned by his mistress are to be
lifted above the commonplace crimes of
the police-court. To take an extreme
example of the Australian problem: how
could the luckless author of “The Boss’s
Wife,” discovering the lady in the arms
of the Chinese cook whom she mistakes
in the dark for her husband:
She played, and sudden she flashed a torch,
One horrified glance he took,
She dropped the light and she fainted quite,
’Twas Chin-ti the Chinese cook!
elevate his elementary humor to the
exquisite lyrical tragedy of “Glasgerion,”
in which the plot is practically identical,
except that the hero was “the king’s own
son,” deceived by his page-boy:
And he pull’d out his bright brown sword,
And dried it on his sleeve.
And he smote off that lither lad’s head
And ask’d no man leave.
He set the sword’s point till his breast,
The porrtmel till a stone;
Through the falseness of that lither lad
These three lives wern all gone.
There were, it is true, several dramatic
possibilities in Australia, all of which the
balladists seized upon, sometimes with
excellent results. There were the occa-
sional spearings of outback settlers or
their cattle by the aborigines, and the
sometimes dreadful retaliations by the
whites. There were the riots on the gold-
fields (a very long ballad, too poor in
technique to be worth including in the
anthology, was written about the Eureka
Stockade) which moved towards armed
rebellion and the setting-up of a republic.
And, especially, there were the bush-
rangers, who, in a century free from
policemen and rail transport, might well
have established outlaw clans of Kellys
very much like the cattle-thieving Arm-
strongs of the Border (from whom,
through my paternal grandmother, I am
very pleased to descend).
But the warfare against the blacks, too
one-sided on the whole to awake the tone
of heroism, was brief, sporadic and re-
mote. The gold-miners were quickly
pacified by military intervention and poli-
tical concessions. The bushrangers were
rounded up and hanged with heartless
rapidity. Not one of these interesting
possibilities was allowed to develop into
the kind of murderous system of society,
involving rich and poor, aristocrat and
plebeian alike, that would have made
tragic balladry on the grand scale pos-
sible.
It is worth noticing how clearly, when
a dramatic situation was thrown up to
them, some of the Australian writers
reproduced the authentic ring of the
Border ballad. Quiller-Couch, in his
introduction to the Oxford Book of
Ballads, defined the true ballad style as:
About the dead hour o’ the night
She heard the bridles ring.
and
But this ladye is gone to her chamber.
Her maydens following bright.
and
O there was horsing, horsing in haste
And cracking of whips out owre the lee.
and (in “the merely flat and pedestrian”
but still authentic)
There was slayne upon the English part
For sooth as I you say,
Of nine thousand English men
Five hundred came away.
Often enough in Australian balladry
one hears the same clear, impetuous note.
From Paterson’s “Conroy’s Gap” (omitted
from the anthology because the story, like
so many of the later bushranger ballads,
is sentimental) there is the flawless
stanza:
He left the camp by the sundown light
And the settlers out on the Marthaguy
Awoke and heard, in the dead of night,
A single horseman hurrying by.
and then we may quote from Francis
Myer’s excellent and murderous “Lex
Talionis”;
But the black creek-timber showed over
the plain .
Ere Macalister tightened his bridle-rein.
From the anonymous “Death of Ben
Hall”:
They had followed his track from the
Weddin heights
And north by the Weelong yards;
Through dazzling days and moonlit nights
They had sought him over their rifle-sights,
With their hands on their trigger guards.
Or in the “merely flat and pedestrian
but still unquestionably authentic ballad-
style, from the sequence on Ned Kelly:
So Kelly marched into the bank,
A cheque all in his hand,
For to have it changed for money
Of Scott he did demand.
However, it is not in reappearances—
as I think, rather than imitations, they
are —of the Border style in a few dramatic
ballads that we should look for the typical
and distinctive quality of the Australian
ballad. This is rather to be found in the
most stirring of the riding-rhymes, Pater-
son’s “The Man from Snowy River,”
where the line itself, instead of stabbing
short and sharp like a Highland dirk, has


Important Reference bool
WHITAKER’S ALMANACK,
1954
The 80th annual volume, revised and
enlarged to 1,190 pages. Contains astro-
nomical information, details of govern-
ment. finances, population, commerce
and general statistics of the nations of
the world, plus new summaries of art,
drama, music, broadcasting, and a
section of illustrations of important
events of the past year.
35/- (post 1/3)
CONCISE OXFORD ATLAS
The Oxford Atlas is accepted as the
standard authoritative atlas of the
modern world. It is on this that the
Concise Oxford Atlas is based. It is
not merely an abridgement—it contains
many new maps, political, population
and physical maps of many countries,
and a new system of colour relation to
contemporary political alignments.
31/- (post 1/8)
Write, ’phon£ or call in for these, and all the books you want f to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
A TOUCH. RACY NOVEL
HAVE PATIENCE, DELANEY!
by BANT SINGER 12s.
A story loaded with suspense and packed with action and glamour,
a first-rate achievement in fiction-writing.
Available at all Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
lengthened for the gallop across the
immense Australian distances;
He sent the flint-stones flying, but the pony
kept his feet, .
He cleared the fallen timber in his stride,
And the man from Snowy River never
shifted in his seat
It was grand to see that mountain horseman
ride.
And it is in the humorous, laconic drawl
—turning to Paterson again of “The
Man from Ironbark”:
And now while round the shearing floor the
listening shearers gape,
He tells the story o’er and o’er, and brags
of his escape.
“Them barber chaps what keeps a tote, by
George, I’ve had enough,
One tried to cut my bloomin’ throat, but
thank the Lord it’s tough.”
And whether he’s believed or no, there s one
thing to remark, '. /
That flowing beards are all the go, way up
in Ironbark.
There is laughter in the Robin Hood
ballads, as there was afterwards in the
narrative poetry of Chaucer, but the Bor-
der ballads proper are tragic and severe.
But humor is the very basis, the living
flesh of the Australian ballad: the take-
down stories showing the age-old delight
in the picaresque rogue, Saltbush Bill or
the barmaid of “The Red Creek Consulta-
tion” ; all the fabulous tail-stories in
which the yarns of men at the campfire
were developed into the high art of lying,
as in Brady’s frozen candle-flames at
Nimmitabel, in Goodge’s sheep-dog that
rounded-up a blowfly into a bottle and
“Steele Grey’s” Post-hole Mick, pitting
the earth with inconceivable rapidity as
he disappears over the horizon; the
simple masculine delight in swearing,
drinking and fighting as in “The Great
Australian Adjective” (not strictly a
ballad, perhaps), in Thomas E. Spencer’s
wild Irishmen, and in the “City of Dread-
ful Thirst,” which Paterson apparently
rewrote from a Bulletin Aboriginalities
paragraph; and, most significant of the
humorous ballads, those hard-bitten,
sardonic tales in which the national spirit
“made light,” or at any rate made
laughter, of drought, dust, heat, disaster
and even death in the fierce outback. Per-
haps the classic in this category is “John
O’Brien’s” delightful “ ‘We’ll all be
rooned,’ said Hanrahan, ‘before the year
is out’”; but I should like to quote a
scene from a ballad not so well known,
Alexander Montgomery’s “A Curious
Reminiscence,” where the corpse of Old
Jerry, dragged in from the stables to
drink with its old boon-companions, is
treated with a macabre and singularly
disrespectful humor which demonstrates
that it was precisely in its derision for
the supernatural and the tragic that the
Australian ballad developed its own dis-
tinctive virtue of ironic realism:
Well, sir, back they comes directly an’
a-laughin’ fit to split,
And behind them Mother Doolan crying
“Shame! ”
And well she might, for there, between the
pair of them was it,
The clay that used to answer Jerry's name!
With its head a-hangin’ forward and its legs
a-draggin’ loose,
You can bet it was a dreadful sight to see!
And I started up to stop ’em, but says
Doolan “Where’s the use?
They could smash a dozen chaps like you
and me!”
So they humped their fearsome burden to a
corner of the bar,
And propped it on a cask agin the wall;
“What will Jerry drink?” says Jimmy, and
Macarthy says, “Three-star!
For we won’t be mean with Jerry—damn it
all!”
Or perhaps, since Montgomery’s is a
pretty tall story, one could take John
Wilson’s “Out from Noonkanbah,” a
late but thoroughly traditional ballad,
where what seems to be the story of an
actual “perish” from thirst in the desert
becomes, if half a lament, half a joke ; •
The coolibahs quiver,
The snakewood moans
And bower-birds play
With Lin Bower’s bones
While the thunder rolls
In ominous tones,
Out from Noonkanbah.
Away out there
Where horizons melt
There’s a pair of boots,
Some mildewed felt,
A few old buttons
And a sun-cracked belt —
Out from Noonkanbah.
In articulo mortis,
Ah, forsook!
With a shovel of sand
And a leather-bound book
They buried him there
With the Chinese cook . . .
Out from Noonkanbah.
What distinguishes these ballads from
merely light, merely comic verse is the
impression they all convey of an under-
lying reality, a significance. The red
earth is in them ; the Australian national
character ; and, I think, the foundation
for a distinctively Australian poetry of a
higher quality.
Humorous or serious they were, in
fact, aspects of the one great drama that
obsessed the national mind : the conquest
of the land: in which great struggle the
nation was being born. Humorous on its
general level, tragic in moments of drama,
pathetic when men perished by thirst or
fire or flood, it was a theme that rose at
its highest to the heroic note of the epic.
We must not expect too much of “The
Man from Snowy River”; he was a
stockman chasing brumbies ; yet, as an
embodiment of courage and dashing
horsemanship and as a repository of deep
Australian awareness of the. land, he has
become a kind of national hero, a figure
of heroic mythology. Something “in the
blood” of all Australians must stir to his
wild gallop down the mountainside, as
the blood stirs, too, and the mind kindles,
when Ogilvie’s cattle sweep down from
the gulf:
Store cattle from Nelanjje! The mob goes
feeding past, .
With half a mile of sandhill ’twixt the
leaders and the last;
The nags that move behind them are the
good old Queensland stamp,
Short backs and perfect shoulders that are
priceless on a camp;
And these are Men that ride them, broad-
chested, tanned and tall,
The bravest hearts amongst us and the
lightest hands of all:
Oh, let them wade in Wonga grass and
taste the Wonga dew,
And let them spread, those thousand head—
for we’ve been droving too!
Of the individual balladists who thus,
humorously, tragically or heroically,
spoke for the Australia of their period,
Henry Lawson has, as I have said, been
over-rated; though, for his occasional
excellencies, he remains among the lead-
ing figures. Gordon was one of those
fortunate writers, born at the right time
to set a new movement alight, whose
influence far outweighs their achieve-
ment. Ogilvie, though best remembered
for “From the Gulf,” took night, moon-
light and the campfire for his private
territory and, alone amongst all those
hard-headed, intensely masculine song-
sters, except for an occasional flourish
from Harry Morant, mentioned with
charm and grace the terrifying subject of
girls. Boake, full of promise, died young.
Brady displayed a large geniality. Goodge
was light and funny. “Gerardy” stood
alone in ballads of the First World War;
and of post-war balladists continuing the
’nineties tradition the writer who has best
understood the requirements of his craft
is Edward Harrington. The king of them
all was Paterson, widest in range, most
fertile in the creation of national types,
whether humorous or heroic, as deft as
any in versification though not as musical
as Ogilvie, most typical of the proud,
robust and sardonic spirit of his age,
surest in his instinctive understanding
that the first thing a balladist should do
is to tell a story. There are many omis-
sions in the anthology which I regret; but
none more than Paterson’s Collected
Verse, which I should have liked to m-
clude in its entirety.
Some Recent Novels
„ n - u a
hJfSis&T
Clare, commonplacely worthy, and
Vivienne, promiscuous. The English
foreman of the farm, zigzagging between
religion and sex, loves Clare, but desires
(and acquires) Vivienne. Vivienne has
similar designs on a Polish-refugee farm-
hand. The people crack their skulls fall-
ing out of the wrong beds, commit suicide,
etc., and altogether the novel reads more
like a reconstructed cause celebre than
fiction.
# # * *
Consider These Women: Hebe Elsna
(Robert Hale). If the worst crime a man
can commit is that of “being found out”
the worst penalty he can be accorded
“ust su rely be .o become Ufe subject of
fte sort of romantic nove which when
such beings existed used to be called a
housemaid s delight. Charles Dicke
is the central figure of this excursion into
crime and punishment—the women, of
course, being Catherine, his wife, her
sister, Georgina Hogarth, and the actress
Ellen Tiernan, with the occasional “fair
frail” of little importance strewn about
to decorate his primrose path. Granted
that Dickens was not the epitome of all
the virtues his Victorian readers wanted
to believe him ; granted that by present-
day standards he was, indeed, hypocritical
—nevertheless, nothing is added to our
understanding or appreciation by Mrs.
Elsna’s method of presenting him as, on
one side, the genius for whom all is right
and. on the other, as a sort of hairy
goat. The villainess of this particular
interpretation is Georgina—there are the
bones, here, of an interesting character,
but, like all the others, she is made to
behave too much like a puppet to carry
any conviction.
* * * *
Dom Casmurro: Machado de Assis
(W. H. Allen). Whatever the reason for
the sudden interest of English transla-
tors in 19th-century Portuguese novels,
it is a very enjoyable literary pheno-
menon. Less than a year ago another
novel by de Assis received high praise,
and there was the excellent Cousin
Bazilio by E?a de Queiros, reviewed on
this page recently. In spite of its
language affinity with Spanish, Portugal’s
middle-class social system both in
Europe and the colonies was, on the
evidence of these novels, far less rigid—
its women less chaperoned than in Spain,
France or mid-Victorian England. Dom
Casmurro is set in a Brazilian city, most
of the story developing during the 1840-
1870 period—a prosperous time when, if
there were no telephones, plenty of slave-
boys were available to run messages. It
is an account, told by himself in a series
of brief episodic chapters, of how a gay
and wealthy young man who married
his one-and-only love, his charming
childhood companion, turned into an
embittered elderly gentleman bearing the
nickname “Dom Casmurro” —in Eng-
lish “Sir Grumpy.” The style and form
appear, superficially, casual: almost
picaresque. But, gradually, the book
discloses itself as a most careful con-
struction in which no sentence has been
written by chance. It is an unusual form
for a novel, and this reader’s prophecy
is that it will speedily find imitators. The
adequate translation is by Helen Caldwell.
* * * *
Crows Can’t Count: A. A. Fair (Heine-
mann). The stout and hard-eyed Bertha
Cool and her tough assistant Donald Lam
investigate in the U.S. a mystery that
involves an emerald necklace, a jeweller,
a gem-merchant, a talking crow, and a
girl probably blackmailed ; and then go
down to a Columbian emerald-mine to
solve it. Mr. Fair’s Bertha Cool and a
few of his South Americans are too good
for the rather banal mystery.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 276
Across
I—Some tennis urger is an extra-
strong porter though very fat and
may be best out loud. (6, 5)
6 —An associate of pounds and
shillings is a North Dakota con-
junction. (3)
8— Do I parade to one steamer,
noble lady? (11)
9 Father’s in step. (3)
10— Listen to the Richmond foot-
ballers what can make swim-
ming dangerous. (5-5)
11 — Striking successes by the Lord
High Executioner. (4)
13 — Nevertheless, tea is a Scottish
gate. (4)
14— Serpent rid of cattle-plague who
skins a troublesome person. (10)
17 —Envelope inscribers who clothe
publicity with post-Christian cup-
boards. (10)
19 —Love by the blokes is a portent
causing women to lose their
heads, but nobody has a turn.
(4)
22 — Where to spot heartless Indians.
(4)
23 — An attractive Tasmanian river and
I go into South Australia in
Columbus’s flagship. (5, 5)
25 Imperial Chemical Industries is
here in France. (3) . .
26 Salt girl with ammunition giving „
Cain a turn. (3-8)
27 East Slim has something to
brood over. (3)
28— Theatres that are not so well up
to time more recent phases ot
development. (5, 6)
Down
1 — Dye a coin on your broken nail,
and put the line under it. (15)
2 It isn’t grand to play, but it’s
honest. (7)
3 City of Punjab Henry up to crude
metal. (6)
4 There’s a lot in the midst ot
deadly sin. (5)
5 He vetoes the position of a
jockey’s cap? (9)
6 Pass a pianissimo stray. (7)
7 The record on it upset the deli-
cate musical shading’s cessations.
(15)
12—The lady’s not for burning, per-
haps, but cook him! (3)
15— Claret’s such a study for Holmes
batting with Miss O'Hara of
Georgia. (2, 7)
16 — Snare between thumb and tore-
finger. (3)
18—Immersing a brown ruler. (7)
20— Spoil a sovereign assessing a
paper. (7)
21— Bring in the devil crumb. (6)
24—Launceston drain with apprecia-
tion to spoil Absalom’s sister.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 275


u
w
BATTERIES
mm
mm
s ■. *, . v s
ilii i
y.:i ■:■■■/
.
K; i | -& —i l r rr-' a
|| SHS .+ » ,
mm* s*
s';'?#
m
m
m
mi
ggS^,
e:*i
m
Spj
.v. ‘j
il
I!*s
Si*
m
■•'•".i'i-jr
g%
1 w. ?t sj» r
W.*:*7.*is3ft-x*JfcV
, f. ; . k-:----2KBv
i Jfa i i
Si*.-:-. ■ -.•#•** ■
!s*s
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR All
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO. LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Ooulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
ŵ
South Australia: ‘
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania :
ERG DISTRIBUTORS. LAUNCESTON}
| Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Gcjulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
