

THE HOUSE
sdf
'PELT
PRODUCERS OP
CHATEAU TANUNDA
SOLERO
BRANDY
• ROYAL PURPLE PARA
• GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
Mr. CORBETT AND Mr. SULLIVAN
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3883
Wednesday, July 14, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
TOWER BRIDGE:
GATEWAY TO LONDON
'T'OWER Bridge, which spans the River
Thames near the Tower of London, is
one of the city’s famous landmarks and
is a silhouette which is known through-
out the world. The twin towers, two
hundred feet apart, rise from massive
piers set in the river-bed and were
designed to resemble the architecture of
the Tower of London from which the
bridge takes its name.
Approached from the sea, Tower
Bridge-is the first of the many bridges
that cross the Thames higher up the
river. It was designed by Sir Wolfe
Barry (son of the architect of the Houses
of Parliament); and by Sir Horace Jones.
It was built by the Corporation of the
City of London at a cost of £800,000.
Building commenced in 1886 and eight
years later, its towers gleaming white
against a blue June sky, it was opened
with a memorable ceremony. Guns
boomed at the nearby Tower of London,
church bells rang and, to the accompani-
ment of music played by the bands of the
Grenadiers and the Life Guards, a Royal
procession consisting of the Prince and
Princess of Wales, the Duke of York
and Princess Victoria, the Czar of
Russia and the Lord Mayor of London in
his state coach passed across the bridge.
Every day since then the great bascules,
or drawbridges, have been raised to
allow the passage of seagoing ships which
average seventeen daily throughout the
year. The two bascules, each a hundred
feet in length and weighing 1100 tons,
have counterpoise weights of 350 tons
in each case and are raised and lowered
by hydraulic machinery. Each operation
takes one and a half minutes and the
heavy road traffic is delayed for only
three to five minutes. The overhead
footways are 141 feet above highwater
mark and the carriageway across the
central span is thirty feet above the
water at high tide.
From Tower Bridge can be seen the
northern reaches of the Port of London,
which contains the largest docks in the
world, occupying an area of 4245 acres
and extending for a distance of ten
miles downstream. Over 60,000 ships,
handling over a third of Britain’s over-
seas trade, pass through London’s five
dock systems each year.


The Red Page
THE LOVES OF NOVELISTS
Turgenev and Flaubert met for the first
time in 1863, when Flaubert was 42 and
Turgenev 44; mutual admiration bound
them friends until death: they were both
realists, but there is little similarity in
their art; Flaubert’s realism constituted
an attack upon the dream-world of
French romanticism, Turgenev’s upon the
false heroips of Russian nationalism. But
what does strike the reader of Selected
Letters of Gustave Flaubert, edited and
translated with an introduction by Francis
Steegmuller (Hamish Hamilton), and
Turgenev, a Life, by David Magarshack
(Faber), is the curious story and contrast
of their loves.
To anyone acquainted with Flaubert’s
art only, his love-letters to Louise Colet
must be a revelation. “As in life,” says
Eric Gill, “there is no soul like a morti-
fied soul, so in art there is no taste like a
mortified taste” —and as a mortified
author Flaubert is one of the greatest
literary artists who ever lived. One pic-
tures him straining and refining upon
Madame Bovary and especially upon The
Sentimental Education to gain and pre-
serve that impression of the slow leaking-
away of life in dreams and indecisions:
His pitiless self-imposed discipline and
his constant compulsive sense of having to
be busy at his task are highly symptomatic:
the price he had to pay was —spontaneity.
Whereas,
the fact that in his letters he actually did
achieve the spontaneity that was elsewhere
denied him —the “quick punches,” the
effects produced “by means extraneous to
Art” that he was unable to put into his
books—is not the least of our reasons for
treasuring the correspondence.
E.g.:
By the way—we’ll christen the blue dress
together, then. I’ll try to arrive some even-
ing about six. We’ll have all night and
the next day. We’ll set the night ablaze!
I’ll be your desire, you’ll be mine, and we’ll
gorge ourselves on each other to see
whether we can be satiated. Never! No,
never! Your heart is an inexhaustible
spring, you let me drink deep, it floods me,
penetrates me, I drown. Oh! The beauty
of your face, all pale and quivering beneath
my kisses
It goes on and on. She was a poetess,
a beautiful blonde, aged 36, and he was
24, when they first met; but in spite of
his rhapsodic letters, it was she who was,
in Baudelaire’s phrase, the patient, and
Flaubert who was the surgeon in this
affair; in two years he accorded her
only six personal interviews —mostly at a
railway pub—the rest is these terrific
letters which work to a climax as her
protests become more and more
anguished ; and the affair breaks off when
Flaubert goes on tour of the East.
In Egypt, Flaubert’s amatory educa-
tion was continued by Kuchiouk Hanem,
a celebrated courtesan at Esna; and
although his account of the curriculum
to his lifelong literary friend and adviser,
Louis Bouilhet, is broken off at two of
the most interesting points by discreet
dots, one gathers that there was not much
Flaubert didn’t know about love when
he returned to France —once more to
take up his affair with Louise Colet, with
a series of letters in which, much more
than in letters to anyone else, he pours
out his soul; but this time it is his literary
soul;
By natural disposition I love what is vague
and misty ; and it is only patience and study
that rid me of all the white fat that clogged
my muscles. The books I most long to
write are precisely those for which I am
least endowed. Bovary, in this sense, is
an unprecedented tour de force (a fact of
which I alone shall ever be aware): its sub-
ject, characters, effects, etc. —are all alien
to me. It should make it possible for me
to take a great step forward later. Writing
this book I am like a man playing the piano
with leaden balls attached to his fingers....
Here we have him in the white-heat of
composition: Flaubert, not widely, but
deeply, experienced in the arts of love;
completely the master and analytic
surgeon of his experience, Colet fades
out of his life like a book he has read
deeply, but which no longer interests him.
With Turgenev it is the exact opposite.
An aristocrat, his first experience of love
was by signeurial right, when his mother,
observing that the boy was growing up,
sent one of her maids into the garden to
seduce him. Before this, known only to
himself, he had at 13 a great longing for
his handsome and promiscuous father’s
beautiful young mistress, and never for-
got the time when his father hit the girl’s
hand with his riding-whip and the girl
“put her hand to her lips and kissed the
weal.”
He also treasured the memory of the
miller’s wife who, a little later, when he
suggested bringing her a present, asked
only for some scented soap such as great
ladies used ; and when she got it, hurried
out and came back to offer him her
scented hands to kiss as he kissed their
hands. As a very young man, Turgenev
had a “metaphysical” love-affair with
Tatayana, the sister of his friend Bakunin,
at the same time proceeding on a more
physical plane with one of his mother’s
sempstresses, to such effect that she bore
him a daughter.
He had thus the makings of a con-
noisseur, a taster of feminine dishes, in
1844, when the glorious voice of the ugly
young Spanish opera-singer, Pauline
Viardot, struck him to the heart. He
followed her to Paris. She did not want
him, but he insisted ; she gave him a few
weeks’ or a few months’ happiness, and
then sent him upstairs to join the hus-
band, whose worthy complaisance he had
before despised, while she took another
lover. And others and others.
So did Turgenev ; but only to go back
to be near her, pleased enough to inter-
pret her gipsy coldness as friendship. He
sent his daughter by the Russian semp-
stress, Paulinette, to be brought up by
the opera-singer. He had written most
of his early plays and stories in her house.
But neither the novels he wrote in Russia
that set the pace for Russian literary
thought and had strong bearing on the
freeing of the serfs, nor a half-dozen
love-affairs or such close feminine friend-
ships as that with the Countess Lambert,
could put Pauline Viardot out of his
mind. When her voice decayed he went
to live with her at Baden-Baden, building
a concert-hall where her pupils could per-
form in operas for which he wrote the
librettos and she wrote the music ; even
acting in them himself:
I must confess that when I lay
stretched out on the floor in the part of
the Pasha and saw a cold sarcastic smile
of disgust play on the haughty lips of your
Crown Princess [Victoria, the daughter of
Queen Victoria] something went cold inside
me.
He pumped the bellows while Pauline
played the organ! In 1875 he bought the
Viardots a country house on the Seine, at
Bougivai, building himself a Swiss chalet
near by ; and there he spent the last years
of his life. When she was 56 and he 59,
he wrote:
Downstairs my poor friend is singing
something in her poor cracked voice
and I feel darker than the darkest night.
He once spoke of a father and mother
who went to see the grave of their son ;
to him, the final and most beautiful proof
of love, and one he knew Pauline would
never show for him; and he was right;
she let his body go to Russia without her
because the husband of Turgenev’s
daughter was contesting the disposal of
his property.
In one thing Flaubert and Turgenev
may be compared and not contrasted: it
was to save the affairs of the husband of
his favorite niece that Flaubert beggared
himself—and on that occasion Turgenev
moved heaven and earth (unsuccessfully)
to get Flaubert a job as public librarian
by using his diplomatic influence on the
French Premier ; and the business failure
of the husband of Turgenev’s daughter
Paulinette sent him selling Russian estates
and even horses and carriage to put their
affairs in order, although this seems to
have been only a temporary embarrass-
ment to Turgenev.
So here is somewhat cavalier treat-
ment of Mr. Steegmuller’s well-selected
letters and Mr. Magarshack’s complete
and well-proportioned biography; but if
Louise Colet was only a fraction of
Madame Bovary (and resented that frac-
tion to the extent of two indignant
novels, various anonymous letters, and
the taking of any further opportunities
to offend and insult Flaubert), and if
Pauline Viardot was only one of the
women whom Turgenev studied and pre-
sented from the life, it is these great
passions which illuminate like lighthouses
the minds of great authors, those “ways
of genius that are crooked,” in Blake’s
phrase, and serve as milestones of their
accomplishment. How unfortunate for
our comprehension that history is not all
scandal; how fortunate that the lives of
so many great artists are hardly anything
else!
Halibut-fishing
Halibut Schooner (Thames and Hud-
son) is a straightforward slice of auto-
biography by Lyman Ellsworth, who
studied engineering at Alabama, and
began knocking about Alaska aged 24 in
1934. After service in the recent war,
he went back to Alaska; and this book
is for the most part the story of several
trips he made as a hand on a schooner
fishing for black-cod and halibut.
The book has the appeal of clear (and
often very cold) sea-water —and fishing.
They use 1800 ft. groundlines with hooks
every 9ft., anchored, but held off-bottom
by glass balls, and marked at each end
by flagpole-buoys. The 1800 ft. lines are
units, or skates. On good grounds without
strong currents they join up to nine skates
in one continuous line —16,200 ft. The
lines are worked by winches, which would
seem necessary when you realise that the
cod weigh up to 201 b., and the halibut,
a kind of sole, from 40lb. to 601 b. each,
and that on good grounds the lines come
up loaded with them.
The author was also cook on his first
voyage, and the job was no sinecure:
Each man ate five or six eggs, half-a-dozen
hotcakes, couple slabs of ham, big bowl of
oatmeal, washing all this down with six
or eight mugs of coffee.
But in spite of this considerable drain
on overhead, his profits on two trips, a
few weeks at sea in all, was some 1260
dollars —the crews work on a share-
arrangement, and on good grounds there
are no union-hours; they fish till they
can’t stay awake any longer.
Most of the fishermen were North
Europeans. There are some wild, but
pretty clean, scenes ashore and in Fin-
nish steam-baths; there is a Finnish
wedding where the bride blacks the best
man’s eye and the best man throws the
bridegroom through the window, where-
upon the bride takes to the best man
with a couple of empty bottles ; there
is a sojourn with two fishermen on an
island where they are building them-
selves a boat from pit-sawn planks; and
there is some of how it feels to be
refrigerated in a ship whose decks are
feet-thick with winter ice.
"John O'Brien"
Some years ago I happened to meet
Brian Penton in Angus and Robertson’s,
and with a kindness that was by no
means strange to his extraordinary collec-
tion of qualities, and which I always had
from him, he insisted upon introducing
me to the all-powerful Mr. Cousins,
thereupon standing back with the expec-
tation, another of his qualities, of seeing
me rope Mr. Cousins to a chair and tor-
ture him until he agreed to publish my
book of verse.
It hardly happened that way, and after
a few polite remarks on poetry, Mr.
Cousins mentioned Paterson’s continuing
sales and added that “this”—taking a
book from the shelves—was the only
recent stuff they had a chance with, now-
adays. He offered me the book. It was
Around the Boree Log. I waved it im-
periously away: Eliot or Pound, yes ;
“John O’Brien,” no. At the same time
1 think I managed not to dismay Mr.
Cousins with discovery of the terrible
thing that he had done.
But time tends to decrease our interest
in method, and to increase our apprecia-
tion of material, and in “John O’Brien’s”
posthumous book. The Parish of St.
Mel’s and Other Verses (Angus and
Robertson), one must first admire the
saturation of these simple and adroit
stanzas with Father Hartigan’s life and
observations of Australian country life:
childhood at Yass ; priest and inspector
of schools at Goulburn; 27 years parish
priest of Narrandera.
Then there is the quiet humor of such
things as “The Road to Danahey’s,”
which is easy to follow because the
houses are so easily distinguished, though
the distinguishing-mark, alas, is always
the same:
“You’ll know it be the pepper-tree she have
outside the door.”
And there is the dry dig he has at
what he calls the “Twin Cylinders” of
country conversation:
So when she misses on the wheat they
always have the wool.
And his ability to reproduce the Aus-
tralian accent is second to none;
“Well, gorn, what did the blighter say?
Don’t keep us waiting here all day!”
“He says you see them thistles, eh,
What’s cornin’ through the barley?
Well, this is what the experts claim —
Gripes, nearly had that joker’s name;
Branigan, Hanigan, Flanigan”
A sharp thrust on the starter pin,
“Come on, comeorn, kermon—get in,
Ker-mom,” said Brother Charlie.
And as one who often bemoans the
fact that there are so few ballads about
motor-cars, I can only say how aston-
ished I am at the mechanisation of these
verses: the “Old Mass Shandhra-dhan”
of the Boree Log has been replaced in
this book by the “Ten-Twelve She-
bang” ;
She never had no side-doors, and she never
had no screen,
Such things were not invented when they
built that old machine;
The paint is none too clever, and her lines
is none too flash,
She’s ugly as a bag of mice with that four-
cornered dash;
Her back seat’s like a pulpit, and her hood’s
no masterpiece,
She’s knock-kneed in the hind wheels, and
her diff. is leakin’ grease;
And every dead-beat motor yarn, as fur as
I can see,
Is trotted out by some durned goat, and
tacked on her and me.
With this there is “My Curate’s Motor-
bike,” and a tribute from a doctor of
souls to a doctor of engines, “Chas.
Butson, Engineer,” entitled “Firin’ on
the Eight”; while the colloquy about
thistles quoted above happens in a motor-
car. And praises of “The One-ton
Truck.”
Finally, there are the pieces dealing
more directly with his religion (for re-
ligion is implicit in everything he writes):
a moving survey of the life of a nun, “Old
Sister Paul”; the meeting after fifty
years of two schoolmates, now both
priests; and an almost riotous celebra-
tion of “My Curate, Father Con”;
Well, here’s a fearsome telegram with Latin
words thereon;
Begob, they’ve made a bishop of My
Cutate, Father Con!
Altogether it seems likely that he will
continue to justify Mr. Cousins’s con-
fidence.
R. McC.
Sydney Novel
Peter Gladwin, who wrote The Desert
in the Heart about a N. S. Wales country
town, has now done a Sydney novel;
The Long Beat Home (Hamish Hamilton).
Its main theme is the murder by a well-to-
do advertising-agent of a blackmailer who
has discovered that the agent is keeping
a cheerful blowsy barmaid, a “fubsy girl,”
in Mr. Gladwin’s expressive phrase.
Having done the murder, with an
Indian club he keeps in the girl’s flat, the
agent sends for his toughest and most
reliable employee, and they get the dead
blackmailer out in a wheelchair and by
car to the waterfront, and thence the
employee takes the body to burial off
Long Reef in his yacht.
Around this representative Australian
scene are set the loves of the tough guy
and a beautiful and withholding blonde,
and of a handsome young recruit to the
advertising agency with one of the
agency’s beautiful young artists. The
blonde ditches the tough guy for a naval
officer she meets while clinging to the
tough guy’s overturned yacht in the harbor
(Harbor Scene), announces her engage-
ment during a weekend party at Palm
Beach (Palm Beach Scene), and after her
marriage sends for the tough guy to her
Darling Point flat, where he slaps her
down, and afterwards leaves her in disgust.
The seduction of the nice kid by the
lovely artist, preceded by a day swim-
ming at Neilsen Park (Watson’s Bay
Scene), is a charming bit of writing; and
the sequel, the girl’s pregnancy and
refusal to go on and get married, having
more to live for than suburban
domesticity, is faithfully done.
There is also the advertising-agent’s
plain daughter whom he expects the tough
guy to marry; instead, a dreadful thing
happens to her in a nightclub at the
hands of the blackmailer, always
unbeknownst to the father—ah, as Yanks
returning to islands during the war used
to say, “That Sydney! ”
Novelists almost without exception
write of our city as of a pleasant
prostitute; she is so nice they feel that
“something should be done for her.” But
this leads to confusion, for if she is
elevated, will they still be able to enjoy
her favors? The dilemma causes hysteria
in the writing and conveys to the reader
a suggestion of patronage.
Mr. Gladwin’s Sydney is the Sydney
of the journalist, and of a journalist living
at the Cross (i.e., almost, except for sensa-
tional happenings and trade-acquaint-
ances, in isolation): it is not for that
reason a “wrong” or “unrepresentative”
Sydney: an author can only speak of what
he knows; and when Mr. Gladwin’s eye
is on the object he speaks very well
indeed. It is when sentimentality gets the
better of him, and he tries to elevate his
material by such devices as taking his
grandfather to sea in his yacht and giving
him an old-sailor’s sea-burial that he flops
badly.
For all of which, it is quite a readable
book.
The Davy of the Lamp
Professor James Kendall’s short
biography of Humphry Davy : “Pilot” of
Penzance (Faber) is as amateurishly-
written as one would expect from the
awful pun in the title ; but Edinburgh
University’s Professor of Chemistry
ensures a sound scientific story of the
inventor of the miners’ safety-lamp, the
son of a well-to-do Cornish woodcarver
who died leaving his wife and five
children £l5O a year and debts of £l3OO.
Apprenticed to a chemist, young Davy
attracted the attention of a wealthy
amateur-of-science, who in 1798 secured
him a position as assistant to Dr. Thomas
Beddoes, interested in the matters of heat.
(Continued on page 35)


Introducing the Entirely New
Here is the very latest scientific achievement in leather processing. This smart new
colour, “Saddle-hide,” is not merely a colour, it’s a treatment in which
the leather hides are specially oiled to bring out all the natural beauty of graining and
give extra long life to the finished made-up article.
A.—Folio Case This convenient size bag, made on
steel frame and with three compartments. Can be used
as document case or combined document and overnight
bag. Overall size 18 x 13 x 9in. Priced .at £7/10/-.
S. Blouse Case A rounded edge case, beautifully lined, also
inside pocket, steel frame, rustless locks and fittings, 22in. £9/6/3,
24in, £ 10/3/-, 26in, priced at £lO/19/9.
" Saddle-hide” luggage is exclusive to
5^2
§
Sr, -
\*vv.v:.
D
a-?*:
a--
mm.
m
Each article carries our own famous brand, which guarantees quality,
durability and genuine value “HORDURA.”
C. —Hat Case
To match in design and
quality, square shaped,
size I Sin. Price £B/ 1 7/-
D. —Grip Case
A beautifully designed
bag, lightweight yet
built on a wide opening
steel frame, cloth lined,
comfortable double
handles and rustless
locks.
Size 20in. .. £B/5/-.
E.—Suit Case
A popular wide case,
with hide covered steel
frame, pear - shaped
corners, cloth lined, in-
side packing straps and
rustless brass locks and
fittings. Available in
24in. £lO/3/-, 26in.
£lO/19/9, and 28in.
£1 1/16/9.
M I - M - -***=*
-11 |||i |
■
ft ft*
<S X*
>/e*' x
•■ v -
• : -:;x
L i
STORE OPENS
8.30
a.m.
Avail yourself of our handy
shopping hours. You can
now shop before going to
the office and keep the
lunch hour free. You can
also come in and have
breakfast with your friends
at our Second Floor Dining
Room any morning Mon-
day to Friday 8.30-10 a.m.
Moderate prices.
LAY-BY (D.P.S.)
You are invited to avail
yourself of our Lay-by ser-
vice. It’s a wonderful help
when special bargains are
being offered. Just a small
deposit secures the goods
for you, then pay the bal-
ance off at your own con-
venience. . Country cus-
tomers, too, can lay-by
goods just by forwarding
us the deposit (4/- in the
£). We’ll reserve whatever
you want (except furni-
ture) until your next trip
to town. Lay-by Office,
Second Floor.
RESTAURANTS
In Anthony Horderns’ store
there are four conveniently
located eating places.
Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
you will find a quick service
buffet, also a Soda Foun-
tain. The “Tudor” room is
located on a quietly situ-
ated mezzanine floor, down
stairs from the silk depart-
ment, Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Main Dining Room
is on the Second Floor,
next to Shoe Department.
T.O.P.S.
Dial M 2401 and do your
shopping easy. TOPS
(Telephone Orders and
Personal Shopping) en-
ables you to shop at any
counter in our store. Just
phone M 2401 and ask for
TOPS. We’ll deliver your
order promptly to your
home or office. Busy ex-
ecutives, housewives, shift
and factory wo rke r s
already use this easy shop-
ping service.
CLOTHING
HOSPITAL
Our famous Clothing Hos-
pital will undertake repairs,
invisible mending, altera-
tions, refitting, re-lining,
etc., for both men’s and
women’s clothing. Mod-
erate charges. Also, we
have a service where we
undertake all manner of
reconditioning of leather
coats and jackets. Clothing
Hospital, Ground Floor,
George Street.
REPAIRS
Anthony Horderns’ are
famous for all classes of
repair work. Lawnmowers,
watches, furniture, blinds,
umbrellas, everything elec-
trical, stockings, etc., to
mention just a few.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
ißthony Hordern
-
ga Si
LUGGAGE DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY—PHONE M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 14, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3883
The National Australian Newspaper
m
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE NORTHERN SPECTRE
With a Federal surplus of £56 million it is easy for
optimists to anticipate a heavy tax-reduction outside,
of course, the easing of the means-test promised
during the election campaign, along with subsidies to
keep the price of butter up to the dairyfarmer and of
wheat to the grower, a rise to 7d. a gallon in the
amount of petrol-tax set aside for road-construction
and a few other little items; also general spending
which must have an inflationary effect if pursued as
far as the urgers of the Government hope it might be,
and especially if pushed beyond the supply of available
labor and materials.
There will undoubtedly be tax-relief, apart from
the other concessions which were promised by the
Prime Minister in his policy-speech and which must
be paid for. But there sit on the horizon questions
which may upset present plans—questions which cannot
be balked or deferred, and which cannot be settled
according to the dream theories of the A.C.T.U.
The grim fact is that while the parties are gathered
in Canberra to settle the sessional programme and pre-
elect officers, one of the largest military staffs ever to
assemble in peace-time on this side of the world is
meeting at Singapore, 2000 miles from the Australian
coast, to discuss the defence of South-East Asia against
the flowing tide of Communism which last week was
lapping the defences of Hanoi and threatening to drive
the French out of Vietnam into the sea —if M..
Mendes-France and his curious Government do not
voluntarily take to the water.
No picture seemed to penetrate to the minds of
Australian editors obsessed with the features of Mrs.
Petrov’s toilette,of the surging fear which besets the
cities and towns of the Red River Delta, six hours’
flight by jet-aircraft from the Australian coast, or of
the revolution which is bringing an end to the French
Empire in the Orient and inexorably sucking behind the
Iron Curtain the kejl rice-producing territories of Far-
Eastern Asia and 27,000,000 people on an area not
much larger than N. S. Wales.
Public opinion seems oblivious to the fact that,
whatever the arrangements made for Indb-China, they
must bring Communism to within easy striking-distance
of both Singapore and the Philippines and of Siam.
Yet the danger is there and imminent, and its
problems complicated by the community of interest
which the nations of Asia, Communist and anti-
Communist alike, find in racial likenesses and
geographical propinquity and mutual dependence on
each other for basic foods. They are heightened by
the stubborn determination of the United States
Government to resist any recognition of Communist
China, and by the division in the Western ranks as
between the British Government, the Indians and the
Dominions and the senior partner in world defence
plans about the admission of Mao and his country to
U.N.O. /
No such lack of realism exists in the Communist
world as that which blights the defence-thinking of
some countries in the Western zone. Australia’s
problems as set by Dr. Evatt and his followers in
1952 were the “horror Budget”: the coming
depression which did not come. Dr. Evatt is a rosy
optimist in regard to external enemies and a grim
pessimist when he comes to consider the peril in which
the country supposedly lives through the machinations
of local capitalism and the Menzies Government.
It is becoming clear that more happened in
Washington at the talks between Churchill and
Eisenhower than was revealed. On the face of it the
main pillars of the defence of the West have been
moved bfick in East Asia, but to the eventual positions
beyond which Communism must not be allowed to
penetrate southwards. The discussions at Singapore
can only be tactical, and the plans made there seem to
fall logically within the surmises of the best-informed
correspondents, which envisage measures necessary to
be taken at once should Hong Kong be attacked or the
Vietminh forces thrust across the Mekong River, the
first natural line of defence between the Chinese border
and Malaya, or otherwise attempt to penetrate or
further infiltrate the vital buffer State of Siam.
The general thinking of Australians about what
the future immediately has in store is very different
from that of those who in Singapore are making
blueprints for emergency defence in Malaya and the
East generally. It is very different from the thinking
of Japan, where Russian guns on practice-ranges can
be heard across the Tsuruga Strait, daily spurring the
Yoshida Government, with the full consent of its
Western allies, to speed-up the creation of a defence
force in a manner that could not have been postulated
a year ago without producing world-wide opposition.
It is very different also from the thinking in Wash-
ington, where Anglo-U.S. conferences were in progress
at a high level while the Singapore meeting was taking
place. Or of Europe, where 180,000 Nato troops are
engaged in defence exercises—with atomic weapons.
That it is emphasised that the problems of
Singapore cover ground outside the problems of Indo-
china shows a recognition of the fact that the Com-
munist offensive must now enter a new phase, and
that it will probably accord with Mao’s programme for
the subjugation of South-East Asia within the next six
years. Also, that Australia has things other than
increased pensions, a more favorable means-test and
reduced taxation —however pressing this last may be —
to think about and plan for.
The problem of security has become an imminent
one, Australia is involved in the discussions both in
Washington and in Singapore.
White Australia
Recently the White Australia policy has come in for
a considerable amount of criticism—some of it from
our own people, some from abroad. In the face of
hints that it should be abandoned and suggestions that
it should be modified by the introduction of a quota
system, it seems that the time has arrived for a restate-
ment of the policy-— not in the sense of an alteration,
but rather of a reaffirmation of our belief in the
necessity for its continuance.
All three political parties and an overwhelming
proportion of the Australian people believe in the
White Australia policy—which is to say that they
believe that in seeking new citizens for our country
the field of search should be limited to Britain and
Europe, from which source sprang all but a negligible
proportion of our people. Accustomed to this policy
from childhood, most people accept it as a matter of
course, seeing no need for proclaiming it from the
housetops, offensively or otherwise. For this reason,
perhaps, the voice of the small but vocal minority
who feel that the policy is something we should be
ashamed of gets more notice outside Australia than it
deserves.
It is a poor nation that has no pride of race, and
there is no reason why Australians should feel ashamed
to proclaim their pride in their British and European
heritage. A World Government and a universal brother-
hood are noble and lofty ideals, but, despite the League
of Nations and U.N.0., their realisation seems much
further off now than it did when the Commonwealth
was founded over half a century ago. Nowhere is the
spirit of resurgent nationalism so strong as in Asia,
where countries now exercising complete control over
their own affairs for the first time in centuries —in some
cases for the first time ever —are aware and jealous
of their national prestige to a point approaching
fanaticism.
On the score of racial exclusiveness, memories of
the terrible orgy of blood-letting which occurred on
both sides of the Indian-Pakistan frontier when the
two countries first gained their independence should
deter any national of either of those lands from ascrib-
ing that fault to any other country. For seven years
India and Pakistan have been in mortal dispute over
Kashmir, and, although the arguments advanced by
both are based on historical, economic and political
grounds, Mr. Nehru would probably not deny in his
heart that if all these were resolved there would still
remain as a motivating force on his side the fact that
he is of Kashmiri blood.
Nehru himself has not raised the question of
White Australia, but feelers have been put out on a
semi-official basis now and again. General Cariappa,
India’s High Commissioner in Australia, has denied
that he was speaking officially, but has not denied that
he holds the views he expressed privately to a Brisbane
journalist. These were that Australia should invite
settlers from India and Pakistan to help develop the
northern part of the continent, and that our exclusive-
ness is “driving 440 million in India and Pakistan away
from the British Commonwealth and into the arms of
,Communism.”
Two and a half years ago, when Mr. Haroon,
first Pakistan High Commissioner to Australia, was
leaving this country to become vice-president of the
Pakistan Muslim League, he also spoke in terms which
mingled warning with threat. He said:
I shall be sorry for Australia If she does not help
her Asiatic neighbors It is natural that the Asiatic
peoples will sweep down on Australia unless Australia
does something to help them by improving condi-
tions. It is also natural that Asians will be jealous
while Australians have prosperity and they have the
heggar-bowl.
Later remarks made it apparent that Mr. Haroon
was not thinking in terms of permanent migration,
but that Australia should accept more Asian students
at its universities and technical colleges and supply
more farm-machinery at lower prices. In that case his
choice of words was unfortunate.
Gifts and services under the Colombo Plan should
be given and accepted as practical gestures of friend-
ship, not as a kind of modern Danegeld paid to
dissuade Asians from sweeping down on Australia.
At the same time he did get close to the root of Asia's
population problem—lack of technical knowledge and
scarcity of machinery. If Asia with primitive methods
of agriculture and industry can support—even at bare-
subsistence level —its present huge population, the
introduction of modern methods should solve the
problem for at least several generations. As another
Indian, Mr. Hari Narain, puts it in a letter to daily
papers in the capital cities:
The population problem of India (or any other
country) has to be faced at home. Indians realise
it too well that any mass-migration abroad will
create more difficulties than solving them. Even a
shipload of 1500 people arriving in Australia every
day for ten years will migrate no more people than
are added to our population in one year.
Mr. Narain stresses that the people of India have
•never shown any keenness to go abroad and settle in
foreign countries, and that the Indian problems in
South Africa and elsewhere are “the creations of white
races who exploited cheap labor when they needed it
to develop new countries.” That is largely true, but it
doesn’t lessen the problems, and their existence in other
countries strengthens our case for doing all we can to
ensure that similar problems do not arise in Australia.
Those Australians who think a quota-system
should replace the White Australia policy are also
answered by Mr. Narain, who considers a quota
undesirable, “as it takes away the type of people who *
could be most useful at home.” His own objection to
the White Australia policy is purely “on moral grounds
and on those of humanity.”
These, of course, are intangibles which are prob-
ably beyond solution. There is no universally accepted
code of morals from which an answer satisfactory to
both sides can be sdught. As to humanity, Australians
believe that their policy is at present administered with
humanity, applied in a concrete form to individual
cases, not merely mouthed as an abstract principle.
Instances in recent years are the cases of Mrs. O’Keefe,
Sergeant Gamboa and the little Ambonese boy who
flew to Darwin as a stowaway. On a bigger scale there
is the acceptance of the Japanese wives of Australian
servicemen. These exceptions are our answer to
charges of racial exclusiveness, as is our acceptance on
terms of equality of visiting students, scientists, busi-
nessmen, sportsmen and athletes without any considera-
tion of race or color.
White Australia must remain our national policy,
but at the same time we must accept the obligation
it imposes on us to develop our continent as rapidly as
possible. There is no policy so dangerous as the
dog-in-the-manger policy. It is not enough to say
we will have none but European migrants ; we must
continue a vigorous and energetic policy of getting
them. The tally since the war has been impressive,
but the present rate of intake, slowed down for
economic reasons two years ago, is a long way below
that of 1950-51. There is no case for timidity in this
matter ; it may be better to err on the side of too many
than too few. In the long run the justification for a
White Australia will lie in having a sufficient number
of White Australians.
The Oil-Uranium Boom
Probably in every adult person’s lifetime —at least,
anyway, since the days of thfe South Sea Bubble —
there has been a “boom” of some kind or another. Any
Australian in the 60-70-year age-group will have
memories of several “booms,” as well as a couple of
historic depressions. Before that there were the great
initial gold-discoveries of the 1850’s and 1860’s, which
resulted in the raking-over of New South Wales and
Victoria, and the exploitation of rich and easily
reached outcropping reefs and alluvium, and later some
deeper sulphides.
In the lifetime of living Australians there have
been booms following the discovery of silver-lead at
Broken Hill, the opening-up of the Golden Mile at
Kalgoorlie (as well as other rich Westralian discoveries),
the “finds” at Mt. Morgan and Charters Towers (Q.),
while Moonta (S.A.) and the wet West Coast of Tas-
mania had their big moments, mostly with regard to
t}£tS'C metals
In more recent times it took the devaluation of
paper-money to stimulate interest in metal-mining to
boom proportions. In the mid-1930’s there was a
revival in goldmining that achieved boom standards
on the Stock Exchanges, even if gold-production itself
in this stimulated period remained a pale shadow of
the amount dug out of the ground during the second
half of the 19th century.
This mid-1930’s boom led mainly to the reopening
of old mines which were held to be profitable again
because of the increased price of gold ; but it was
accompanied by the development of new and rich mines
in New Guinea and Fiji.
Most of the gold-flotations of the 1930’s had
spectacular careers on Pitt-street and Collins-street, but
failed miserably as profit-earners. It is noteworthy
that what was one of the better mines—the Emperor,
in Fiji—to this day has not returned in dividends the
.30s. a share paid by some speculators in 1936.
Australians are now seeing one of the greatest
Stock Exchange booms in history. Last week the
sharemarket’s valuation of the Rough Range (W.A.)
oil venture was £2OO million, while it put a figure of
£l2O million on the hopes of Australasian Petroleum
(in which Oil Search, Ltd., is interested) in Papua.
Companies prospecting for uranium in Australia had
smaller but nonetheless exuberant valuations placed
on them by sharemarket speculators.
If oil is discovered in large quantities m West
Australia it will increase legitimate hopes of discovering
oil elsewhere in the Commonwealth. With regard
to oil we will not be quite in the same position as we
were with regard to gold in the 1850’s, because theie
has already been an exhaustive Search for oil at
Roma (Q.); but if there is much oil in Australia it has
still to be developed. What oil lay underground in this
continent a thousand years ago still lies there. Uranium,
too, is an almost unknown quantity, and to that extent
alone is a fascinating prospect.
But to a great extent, as regards both oil and
uranium, we are stabbing in the dark. And there is
more psychology than sense in the general sharemarket
attitude. A change in psychology could produce a
devastating change in that market attitude.


SPARE THAT TREE!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cabinet in Harness
The Federal Government has begun to
limber up for the new session which will
deal with the Budget a few days after
Parliament meets next month.
As was expected, there was little change
in the Ministry—none in personnel, but
some logical ones in organisation. Later,
when the Budget is through and the
Houses have settled down, there may
also be some in the membership. Indeed,
having regard to the ages of some Cabinet
Ministers and the eagerness of some
back-benchers for promotion, Mr.
Menzies would need superhuman strength
if he were to resist innovations. At the
end of the present Parliament Sir Earle
Page, whose readiness to resign has been
known for some time, will be 76, eight
Ministers would be over 60, and all the
rest but four over 55. The average age
even now is over 57.
However, in the circumstances, the
status quo is the most prudent arrange-
ment politically until the big questions
of defence, finance and foreign politics
have passed through the phases with
which the present Ministers are familiar
and have been dealing.
The most salutary move was the adop-
tion of the Cabinet committee system
which rules in the British Ministry, with
a policy committee of senior Ministers
which will virtually correspond to the
Cabinet in the British Parliament and
very largely be free of departmental
work. The various committees will have
power to act save on matters of national
policy, which will go to full. Cabinet.
The main changes are in the nature
of rationalisation. Mr. Francis takes the
Navy as well as the Army ; Mr. Townley
hands over Social Services to Mr.
McMahon, and becomes Minister for Air
and Civil Aviation, streamlining two
departments which were before oddly
divided, though under any defence scheme
their unification is a necessity. Harrison
will take-over some of the Prime Minis-
ter’s departmental cares, and Senator
McLeay will carry some of the depart-
mental duties of McEwen, Minister for
Commerce and Agriculture. Mr. Anthony
will confine himself to the P.M.G.’s
Department—a department which Charges
7s. 6d. to send a 20-word urgent telegram
less than a mile in the heart of Aus-
tralia’s greatest city should be enough
for any one back, however broad, to
carry.
There had been some speculation
about the Speakership. But at the joint
meeting of the Government parties Mr.
Cameron had no rival, and it was scarcely
likely that he would —he was one of the
few Government members who made
ground at the elections. With 2000-
odd new voters in his electorate,
mostly industrial, and a straightout con-
test with “Labor” he increased his
majority from 9367 to 11,148.
The next three weeks at Canberra will
be given over to plans which will emerge
after the first full Cabinet-meeting on
July 22, some of them probably at the
Premiers’ Conference to be held on July
26-7, mainly to discuss wheat problems.
The Budget-meeting of the Cabinet will
follow, and Parliament will sit on August
4, the Budget following the Address-in-
Reply debate and being brought down
probably about August 18.
From signs in Asia there may be some
worrying developments before then.
Time for a Funeral
Dr. Carlos Romulo, who shares with
Dr. Evatt the honor of having been
president of the United Nations Organi-
sation and who was one of its leading
champions a few short years ago, has
given the opinion that U.N.O.’s demise
is being brought about by the free world.
He says that the strength of the rickety
body is being sapped by the steady cut-
ting-away of its political prestige and by
deliberately failing to tap its mine of
potential power.
It is a fact which the whole world,
and particularly the English-speaking
world, will soon have to recognise. As
a platform from which to launch its
propaganda, Russia must prize U.N.O.
above everything. It is Russia’s gateway
to the free world, its mouthpiece in the
West.
In the United Nations agencies the
U.S.S.R. has not only power to persuade,
but power of action to block by its veto,
movements against aggression or for
liberty. It holds the command alternately
with the other veto Powers—of which
one is so-called “Nationalist China”—
of the military headquarters of U.N.O.
It has its own spies in the secretariat of
U.N.0., as much entitled to the informa-
tion which drifts through it as any other
employees. Some of its delegates have
been sent out of the United States as
spies. Others have been recognised as
recruiting sergeants for Communism and
its blocs.
More than that, U.N.O. provides an
arena in which Communism, without
much adroitness, can set sections of the
free world clawing at other sections by
raising questions of religion, race and
color, and by stirring up discontent
through the ancillary educational and
sociological bodies which U.N.O. spon-
sors and pays, and by using them to
penetrate countries in which it desires to
maintain unrecognised clandestine agents.
Time and time again these sorts of uses
have been made of U.N.O. bodies. And
the sardonic tragedy of it all is that the
Communists do least of the paying.
A study of what has actually been
done in terms of fighting aggression and
carrying out the other purposes for which
U.N.O. was created shows that the Eng-
lish-speaking peoples do the bulk of the
work and bear the bulk of the cost. The
rest provide the carping and the Com-
INVESTMENT AND
OIL-SHARE MARKET
REVIEWED—page 14
munists engineer the dissension and put
the brakes on action whenever the aggres-
sion to be dealt with is their own.
U.N.0., in fact, is like a man dying of
cancer. Its digestive system is clogged
with a huge Red growth which is killing
it.
It is a mystery that even Dr. Evatt
could convince himself that a body de-
signed to end aggression, to protect the
liberty of the world, can function when
it is bound hand and foot by those whose
objectives it is aimed to curb and destroy.
That Russia and its bloc should be in the
heart of U.N.O. and able to veto or
subvert its proceedings would have its
parallel in national government if a
country were to appoint its most experi-
enced and ardent burglar as a commis-
sioner of police.
Rdilwaymen and Liquor
The police, the medical profession, tem-
perance-reformers and irate wives all
have differqpt opinion as to what consti-
tutes drunkenness, and attempts by
scientists and public-spirited drinkers to
evolve some standard whereby the vari-
ous degrees of inebriation can be
measured to the satisfaction of all
parties have been singularly unsuccessful.
It appears that the N.S.W. Railways
Department is suffering from the same
difficulty of definition, and that a differ-
ence of opinion often arises as to whether
any particular employee, having liquor
taken, is drunk, elevated, lit-up, blotto
or merely “in an unsatisfactory condi-
tion, due to liquor.”
Last week Railways Commissioner
Winsor told “S. M. Herald” that the Rail-
ways Appeal Board was breaking down
discipline by its leniency and that it had
set aside or reduced penalties imposed
by the department for drunkenness or
safe-working breaches in 146 out of 184
cases in the past three years.
This brought from the chairman of the
Appeals Board the comment that the
statement was “partly untrue, partly dis-
tortion and misrepresentation,” and from
the secretary of the board:
I cannot recall any cases of men being
charged with drunkenness. In the past
three years there would not have been
more than a couple of dozen cases in which
men were charged with being in an
unsatisfactory condition, due to liquor,
which is different from drunkenness in
the view of the courts.
The secretary then accused the commis-
sioner of being, unduly lenient to men,
mostly charged with stealing, whose
appeals had been dismissed by the court.
To this Mr. Winsor replied that his
figures were correct and that he would
permit the Press to inspect the files on
the subject. Dr, Lloyd Ross, acting-
secretary of the A.R.U., then entered the
field in defence of the Appeals Board and
said the union would call stop-work
meetings immediately if any attempt was
made to abolish the board.
After this things moved rather quickly.
There were conferences at the office of
Transport Minister Wetherell at which,
judging by the official statements issued,
drink was not mentioned.
Two statements were made. Lloyd
Ross said he was satisfied there would be
no alteration in the policy of the Appeals
Board without prior consultation with
his union, and that “all objections to the
establishment of a plan of joint consul-
tation in the railways have been
removed.” Mr. Wetherell said that the
union representatives had been informed
that Mr. Winsor’s statements “were made
in an attempt to answer criticism that
recent railway mishaps were the result of
lack of discipline and were not intended
to reflect on the Railways Appeals
Board or the men.”
Mr. Winsor made no statement; he
was on his way to Brisbane on leave, on
a trip postponed a few days previously.
When “S. M, Herald” reporters called at
the Railways Department to inspect the
files they were told these were not avail-
able.
A consultative council has been a pet
scheme of the A.R.U. for some time.
Perhaps the Minister should consider
appointing one for a probationary period
during which it should be required to find
a satisfactory test for, and definition of,
drunkenness, failing which it should go
out of existence.
Petrov Commission
Continued
There was added interest in the Petrov
Commission last Week when the Com-
munist party made moves to inhibit the
inquiry. Early in the week it was an-
nounced that Rupert Lockwood, an
employee of the party, who had been
mentioned as having written Document
J —which Mr. Windeyer had described
as a “farrago of fact, falsity and filth” —
had issued writs claiming £lO,OOO for
defamation from W. J. V. Windeyer,
Q.C., assisting the commission, and the
Commonwealth Government, for defama-
tion and slander apparently arising out
of the circulation of Mr. Windeyer’s
opening address in the transcript.
Mrs. Petrov had given evidence of the
details of her work as a Soviet official and
of the events leading up to her decision
to remain in Australia, the climacteric
of which was in the statement that, when
no Soviet guarantee was given her that
nothing would happen to her on her
return to Moscow, she was “very fright-
ened,” and that “I was also afraid that
the couriers who were taking me home
had received special instructions that
when we left Australia, some time—in
some country —under pretext of an
accident they might shoot me.”
During the course of her evidence she
stepped from the witness-box and identi-
fied Mr. Lockwood, who was sitting at
the Bar table with his counsel, Mr. E. F.
Hill, as the author of Document J men-
tioned by Mr. Windeyer,
Mr. Hill objected to questions about the
typing of Document J on the ground that
it was impossible for him without seeing
it to determine his client’s rights. His
objection was overruled. Mrs. Petrov
had previously been shown the document,
which she said she had seen first in the
office of the M.V.D. (Secret Service) in
the Russian Embassy in Canberra. She
said she saw it being typed by Lockwood
on three separate days and over a total
period of'ls to 20 hours. He was living
at the Hotel Canberra and came to the
Embassy each day. The papers he typed
each day were put in the safe by
Antonov, the Tass representative, who
gave him £3O beside £l5 for expenses and
several bottles of brandy when he had
finished the work. Antonov wrote out
a statement for Moscow which she had
to type, and from that statement she
learned that Lockwood had not wanted
to take the money, but Antonov per-
suaded him. He then said: “All right.
I’ll take it for as much as I shall spend.
The rest I shall return to you.”
On July 9, Lockwood was called into
the box and -asked whether it was his
signature that appeared on an application
for a passport which was handed him. He
replied that he did not wish to answer
the question on the grounds that “the
accusations that have been made and
the terms of reference of this commis-
sion relate to espionage and other
breaches of Commonwealth law and 1
feel that any answers required of me
here would be used to promote criminal
charges against me.” As Mr. Justice
Owen ordered him to leave the box he
added: “I may also say that Mrs. Petrov’s
statement about brandy and money is
a lien.”
In an adjacent court, before Mr. Justice
Fullagar, Lockwood applied through his
counsel, Mr. E. A. Laurie, to have the
commission restrained from questioning
him on Document J. Mr. Laurie claimed
that in view of the issue of the writ
against Mr. Windeyer and the Common-
wealth for libel and slander the com-
mission was in contempt of the High
Court in discussing Document J; that
matters in the document were not matters
which the commission had power to in-
vestigate; that Letters Patent under
which the commission was appointed
gave wider powers to the commission
than those conferred by the Royal Com-
mission Act, 1954.
Mr. Justice Fullagar on July 12 gave
his decision that the commission might
proceed with its hearing, and Mr. Menzies
announced that when Parliament met he
would introduce a bill to place the validity
of the commission beyond doubt. On
the same day Lockwood refused to answer
questions as to whether he had been in
Canberra on May 25, 1953, as to whether
he had edited the “Daily News” in Syd-
ney, and as to whether he had written
Document J.
Television Problems
“M.F.D.”: In accordance with the recom-
mendations of the royal commission, the
A. now seems assured of handling
the national service, although it would
have preferred this without commercial
competition. Had Labor won the Federal
election, television would probably have
been made a national monopoly, although
it is by no means certain that the A.B.C.
would have been asked to run it. Labor
has never been enamored of the com-
mission’s 'handling of national broad-
casting, and might easily have created
another semi-government instrumentality
to run television.
Commercial broadcasters’ elation is
tempered by the knowledge that, for a
beginning, at any fate, only two of the
many conflicting applicants will be
granted licences in the principal capital
cities. How the Government is going to
choose the lucky two, even with the
assistance of the Broadcasting Control
Board, without mortally offending all the
disappointed ones, is a problem that has
yet to be faced.
It isn’t by any means the only or the
biggest problem that television will create
once the signal is given to go ahead. A
sufficiency of programme-material, of
fair-average-quality, to keep even a
severely restricted service going is likely
to prove the biggest headache. Even the
B. is finding this out; and because
of the mediocre standard of many of its
programmes much of the early enthusiasm
for television in England now shows signs
of waning. Even the best television pro-
gramme that is every likely to be devised
cannot be repeated night after night to
the same audience ; and the task of find-
ing sufficient attractive and entertaining
material that will lend itself to televising
is likely to trouble both national and
commercial organisations for a long time.
Sporting fixtures such as tennis, boxing,
football and, to a lesser extent, cricket
and racing lend themselves admirably to
this new medium; but naturally pro-
moters will demand stiff fees to compen-
sate them for the loss of public patronage
if the programme is to be radiated simul-
taneously. And the public is not likely
to show any marked enthusiasm for pro-
grammes which give a delayed release of
even the most earth-shaking events.
In the field of news and sport television
will be judged largely by its ability to
serve up programmes while they are still
hot; and hot sporting programmes are
going to cost a lot of money, whether
they are run by television authorities
themselves or bought from private pro-
moters. The same applies to films. Even
though all set-owners may not find it
convenient to watch a programme simul-
taneously, viewers who see it one night
will demand something different the next,
hence the constant demand on the
financial resources and programme in-
genuity of television authorities to keep
their audiences happy. News alone seems
to offer an almost unlimited field for
interesting and informative programme-
material for the entrepreneur with suf-
ficient enterprise to cover it in a big way.
Big advertisers will provide the financial
backing for commercial television once
they are assured of an audience; and
money for the national service will no
doubt be voted by Parliament, the same
as for broadcasting. Sets are likely to
cost between £lOO and £l5O each for a
beginning, and the licence-fee is expected
to be at least £5 a year. For the sake of
the taxpayer and the future of television
it is to be hoped either the Minister or
the Broadcasting Control Board will per-
suade the A.B.C. to spend the bulk of
the money allotted to it on programmes
instead of, as in broadcasting, building
up a huge and costly administrative set-
up into which goes more than a fair pro-
portion of the money voted by Parlia-
ment. National television in the hands
of courageous and imaginative people can
be a real boon to the people of Australia ;
run by the A.B.C. it could easily be
another sink for vast sums of public
money.


POLITICAL POINTS
Federal -Parliament will open on
August 4 and the session will probably
last till the end of October. S’Artie will
probably present his Back-to-Popularity
Budget on August 18.
• •
Federal Cabinet, new roster:
R. G. Menzies: Prime Minister.
Sir Arthur Fadden: Treasurer.
Sir Eric Harrison: Defence Production and
Vice-President of the Executive Council.
H. E. Holt: Labor and National Service and
Immigration.
J. McEwen: Commerce and Agriculture.
R. G. Casey: External Affairs.
Sir Philip Mcßride: Defence.
Sir Eq.rle Page: Health.
Senator O’Sullivan; Trade and Customs.
Senator McLeay: Shipping and Transport.
H. L. Anthony: P.M.G.
J. Francis: Navy and Army.
Senator Spicer: Attorney-General.
Senator Spooner: National Development.
Senator Cooper: Repatriation.
H. Beale: Supply.
W. S. Kent-Hughes: Interior and Works.
A. G. Townley: Air and Civil Aviation.
P. Hasluck: Territories.
W. McMahon: Social Services.
At a party meeting of N. S. Wales
Liberals last week Vernon Treatt sur-
vived a challenge to his leadership by a
narrow margin. There were three aspir-
ants for the job—former deputy-leader
Howarth, Dr. L. J. Parr and P. H.
Morton. The first two were wiped out
on the first ballot, and Treatt and Morton
drew with 11 votes each. Another ballot
was taken and someone changed his
mind, making the count 12-10 in favor
of Treatt. The result is not very hearten-
ing to Liberal supporters. It means that
the Parliamentary members of the party
have real misgivings about their leader
but can supply no obvious successor,
• •
Cain arrived home from the Loan
Council complaining in quite the Cahill
manner that owing to the crool attitude
of the Federal Government work on the
Morwell brown-coal scheme would have
to be postponed again. After sleeping
on it he found the job could be resumed
after all. Morwell is to produce power
and briquettes, but there is still five years’
work ahead of the Electricity Com-
mission.
• «
Resumption of work on the Morwell
project will provide jobs for about 2000
men. The S.E.C.’s present headache is
where to find them.
i • •
Party politics take strange turns at
times. Liberal Prime Minister Menzies
has invited Britain’s Labor ex-Prime
Minister Attlee to visit Australia; the
attitude of Australian “Labor” leaders to
the visit varies from lukewarm to down-
right hostile.
• •
Cahill is threatening to introduce land-
tax and amusement-tax because he
didn’t get quite as much money from
Canberra as he says he was counting-on.
It’s a threat that isn’t likely to be put
into effect. This is tax-reduction year in
the Federal field, and increased State
taxes just don’t make sense. A year ago
Joe dolefully prophesied a deficit of
nearly £1 million; he finished up with a
surplus of £50,000. For the coming year
he will be receiving an extra £2,781,000
from the income-tax pool, and there is
no reason at all for not assuming that his
other revenues will remain buoyant. If
he can’t balance his accounts without
increasing taxes it’s time he found him-
self a new Treasurer,
Victorian Liberals intend to press Cain
to rescind his land-tax and amusement-
tax.
• •
Canberra’s three women Senators will
have to watch their voices in moments of
stress if the president of the Senate
accepts as a precedent a ruling by the
chairman of Brisbane City Council whiSh
permitted a male alderman to say that
a female alderman had “screamed like
a fish hag.” On a withdrawal being de-
manded, the' chairman replied that the
gentleman had not called the lady a “fish
hag”; he had merely said that she
screamed like one.
There was a wild rush of 80,000 to
the new address on the day the George
Adams temple opened in Melbourne. So
great is the enthusiasm for supporting
the hospitals that it is expected that
there will be two sweeps a week. Ama-
teur mathematicians have been trying
to work out what this means to the Post
Office in loss of postage-stamp and
postal-note revenue which it would have
received if the concern had stayed in
Hobart; some estimates place the figure
as high as £1 million a year. Next thing
we’ll hear will be that the P.M.G. is
asking Premier Cain to compensate the
Commonwealth for loss of revenue.
%
• •
N. S. Wales Parliament will reopen on
August 25 for the Budget session. If it
sits as infrequently in the second half
of the year as it did in the first members
won’t be able to complain much of the
wear-and-tear on their vocal cords,
• •
Just where does the A.C.T.U. stand
on arbitration? On the one hand it is
talking of asking the Arbitration Court
to reopen the margins case before
November; on the other it is giving the
go-ahead sign to 1.C.1. employees in
their demands for a 100 per cent, increase
in all margins, with a promise that it
will take charge of any dispute that
follows.
• •
Melbourne City Council’s campaign to
liquidate all non-cantilevered verandas
gets a back-handed comment from the
“Illustrated London News,” which, in a
SAME DIFFERENCE!
series of pictures of Melbourne’s archi-
tectural beauties printed during the
Royal visit, gives pride of place to Ogg’s
veranda in Collins-street, one of the
allegedly unsightly objects condemned
by the city Bumbles.
• •
“Labor” propagandists are blaming
naturalised New Australians for contri-
buting to the party’s defeat at the Federal
election. They claim that most of the
N.A.s are anti-Communist and .that the
Government parties have managed to
persuade them that “Labor” is allied with
the Reds. Jack Lang supports the theory,
but adds a rider —that the real culprit is
his ancient enemy Arthur Calwell, who
brought ’em here.
• •
Two results of the earthquake that
shook Adelaide last March: the insur-
ance companies are up for about £3 mil-
lion in claims ; never in living memory
have the walls of Adelaide homes been
so free from unrepaired cracks.
• * •
Oswald Birse, personal Russian interpre-
ter to Churchill at meetings with Stalin,
was lent to the Commonwealth Govern-
hient for the Petrov Commission, as he
is considered to be the best man available
for the job. Rupert Lockwood’s counsel,
E. F. Hill, apparently doesn’t think so ;
he brought another interpreter with him
to the commission to check Birse’s inter-
preting.
Use by Australia of myxomatosis as
a weapon in the war against bunny is
not regarded in England as quite the right
thing, so it is not hard to imagine the
comments that would be made if the
suggestion of a South Australian farmer
is adopted. He has noticed that foxes
in the Mt. Gambier district are suffering
from a type of mange, and he wants the
C.5.1.R.0. to consider experimenting with
it with a view to exterminating foxes.
Yoicks!
• •
Tully, “Labor” member for Goulburn
in the N. S. Wales Assembly, has been
rapped over the knuckles for speaking
his mind without asking Cahill’s permis-
sion. His indiscretion —or whatever it
appears as on the A.L.P. crime-sheet—
was that he told the Press he was dis-
turbed at Cabinet’s decision not to inquire
into allegations of a police bashing at
Inverell some time* ago, and that, as Police
Commissioner Delaney, whose name had
been mentioned, had not seen fit to deny
the allegations, public concern was
understandable. Tully’s defence: His
statement had been prompted by infor-
mation in the Press. A.L.P. verdict:
Not good enough.
• •
Melbourne Bungs are having a good
laugh at the brilliant result of Premier
Cain’s sweeping reforms of the liquor
laws —at one minute to six jugs, instead
of glasses, are served to the drinkers. A
jug is the equivalent of half a dozen
glasses, and who can’t sink six glasses
in fifteen minutes?
• •
Unfair rail-competition at cut-rates
killed the 80-year-old North Coast
Shipping Co., which served the northern
rivers of New South Wales, but a new
company formed in Sydney intends to
try its luck. It has bought the North
Coast steamer Bonalbo and the Illawarra
Co.’s Cobargo and intends to concentrate
on the Richmond and Clarence sugar-
trade. It deserves good luck, but the
Transport Minister has probably already
sent for his rate-book and a pair of
scissors.
• •
Changes in the Victorian Cabinet
through the appointment of former
Labor and Mines Minister Fraser as
chairman of the Licensing Court: Fer-
guson, M.L.C., becomes Minister for
Mines and Forests and Galbally adds
Labor and Industry to his Electricity
Undertakings portfolio, relinquishing
Forests.
• •
Maryborough (Q.) Trades and Labor
Council is blaming the Doc. for Frankie
Forde’s failure to win the Wide Bay seat
at the Federal election. Reason: Bert
criticised the employees of Walkers, Ltd.,
for striking on the margins issue. The
reason seems a little unreasonable.
The Country-party candidate didn’t
exactly congratulate the strikers and,
after ail, Forde lost Capricornia in 1946
without any help from the Doc.
• •
In making its selection for the Phillip
seat in the N. S. Wales Assembly the
A.L.P. executive will be able to show
whether it still believes in the principle
of “one man, one job”; there are three
candidates besides Lord Mayor Hills
trying their luck. Hills has said that if
he gets the nomination he intends to stick
to the Town Hall job as well as the new
one. For all that, he’s odds-on for the
nomination.
• •
Sydney police have been instructed to
investigate reports that agents for the
Tasmanian lottery are at large in the
city; all lotteries other than the Barrack-
street one are “foreign”-under New South
Wales law. Queensland’s Premier Gair
has made a gentleman’s agreement with
Cosgrove providing for reciprocity be-
tween the Golden Casket and the Hobart
sweep. The other three State gambles
are sticking to the policy of stay-in-your-
own-backyard.
• •
Playford’s new power-station at Port
Augusta, to be run on Leigh Creek coal
and with an ultimate capacity of 270,000
kw,, is to be officially opened on July 23.
• •
The annual report of the Reserve Bank
of N.Z. offers a warning that the
Dominion’s main danger at the moment
“is not unemployment, bujt a continuation,
even an intensification, of inflationary
pressure.” As evidence the report points
to the shortage of labor, the strong
demand for bank-credit and the rise in
the consumers’ price-index,
• •
The A.C.T.U. has decided to drop the
idea of asking the Arbitration Court to
restore automatic cost-of-living adjust-
ments to the basic wage. This decision,
of course, has nothing to do with the
fact that the c.-0.-l. index-figures seem
to have halted their upward climb. The
council now plans to examine a new
method of compiling a prices-index. It
apparently isn’t impressed by the fact
that the Commonwealth Statistician has
been compiling a “new” index in addition
to the C-series index for a couple of
years now and has found that the dif-
ference in their variations is negligible.
• •
“Postscript”: Communist cells with-
in the controlling and associated unions
are plainly at the bottom of the current
N.S.W. railways trouble and muddle.
Individuals and groups throughout the
are deliberately shirking duties,
infringing rules and malingering gener-
ally with the resolved object of disrupting
the safe running of trains and other
transport, and of thus indirectly embar-
rassing industry as a whole. Such under-
cover subversive action bears the hall-
mark of Moscow—disorganise communi-
cations first and general chaos naturally
follows. About two years ago similar
Commonwealth-wide dislocation was
tried (and nearly succeeded) inside the
postal service, but fortunately the bolder
elements exposed themselves too soon
and the movement was successfully if
silently quashed. There is only one way
of dealing with subversion within Gov-
ernment, semi-government Or other essen-
tial service—enforce discipline strictly
and ruthlessly punish transgression of
rules or by-laws without deference of
person or position. This soon catches un-
suspected trouble-makers in the act and
quickly eliminates both them and their
nefarious practices. The Minister and
Commissioner should deal with their
troublous railways along these lines
instead of protecting their hands with
kid-gloves.
• •
Britain is to have a system of tele-
vision similar to that recommended for
Australia by the Television Commission
—commercial stations competing with
the national network. The bill depriving
the 8.8. C. of its monopoly was passed
in the Commons by 291 votes to 265, the
Labor party opposing it strenuously and
threatening to amend or rescind it if and
when they return to power. One effect of
this opposition should be to spur the
commercials into producing programmes
so popular that no party would dare
risk the unpopularity of; cancelling their
licences.
• •
The Foreign Minister of the Indo-
nesian Republic, which can’t guarantee
peace within its own borders, has told the
Dutch that until the question of West
New Guinea is settled “peace in Asia,
Australia and the west Pacific will remain
threatened.” Postponement of a settle-
ment, he says, encourages “a dangerous
political situation.” In the diplomatic
dictionary of the Indonesian statesmen
“settlement” means handed over to
Indonesia, just as their idea of negotiating
is to issue threats.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
FOR years two of our businessmen
have engaged in a price-cutting war.
Till recently nothing more deadly than
words had been exchanged—but the
smoke from the last shot in the battle
has not yet cleared, nor is the resultant
damage evident. One side advertised his
sales of the previous 12 months as a
“quarter of a million pounds.” For once
his opponent didn’t reply—merely sent
the cutting, anonymously, to the Taxa-
tion Department, with a large question-
mark against it. —“Hyanlo.”
“Soc.”: Can’t say that I’m acquainted
with the “skinned-rabbit” hair-do (B.
7/7/’54), but one I do find a trifle ill-
chosen is the “horse’s-tail.” But this, too,
1 suppose, depends on what goes with it.
“Lord Luvus”: I dare say the late Peter
Mitchell had the best intentions when he
provided a £5OO prize for the perfect
woman, but I fancy he has set an impos-
sible task for even the most enlightened
judges. Will the candidates have to sit
for an examination, or will they,
be required to give a practical
demonstration for each of the
properties of the perfect female
listed in Mr. Mitchell’s cata-
logue of virtues? Such, for in-
stance, as their ability to deal
correctly with a refractory hus-
band or baby? I would like to
know what would be the criter-
ion of perfect behavior for a
wife who has suddenly dis-
covered that her husband (osten-
sibly working back to earn the
money to buy wifey a refriger-
ator) had been seen at the pic-
tures with the typist.
❖ ■* ❖
“5 G.R.”: I don’t pretend to
understand the subconscious
mind (B. 23/6/’54). But I have
been told I speak a foreign
language in my sleep. Don’t you
envy me, blokes?
❖ ❖
“Melbn”: A bit more of old
beauty should have disappeared
from Melbourne last week, the
City Council having fixed a
date for the last non-canti-
levered verandas to come down.
At time of writing most of them
are still there, defying the
ukase; one has even become
the subject of an insurance
policy fox £lO,OOO. This is to
protect its owners, Charles
Ogg and Company, old-estab-
lished Collins-street chemists, in the
event of the veranda falling and injur-
ing passers-by. It is a handsome veranda,
soundly constructed, and the only bit of
shelter from the rain in the vicinity; to
order its removal is stupid bumbledom.
An independent group of citizens took
out the insurance in the , hope that the
City Fathers would think twice about it.
But Melbourne city councillors aren’t
given much to thinking. An atom-bomb
couldn’t have done more damage to the
city than they have done over the last
few decades in the name of beauty.
❖ ❖ ***
“Mullum”: I have talked about the
census to a dozen people and all except
one trotted out the same joke: “I’ve
given mine to the wife to fill-in, she is
the head of our house.” Which may
explain why, on checking my own census-
“ Don't wrap it up—I'll fly it home.”
paper, I discovered that I had written
against Mrs. M.’s name, “Sex; Male.”
A swift alteration saved me a £5O fine.
+
*** v *
“V.1.P.P.”: My father-in-law has a pot-
tery that his father had before him, and
between, them they’ve made on the
wheel thousands of that form of bed-
room china that “Pitt St.” refers to (B.
30/6/’54), Maybe they never embel-
lished any of them with decorative pat-
terns, but some years ago their plain pink
ones were installed in a chosen few of
Queensland’s finest homes, just before
“That' s no way to pass the salt!”
Very Important People arrived from
overseas. Couldn’t these be considered
collect© rs’-pieces ?
•ij-t
“Peter R.”: Our New Australian gar-
dener is desperately anxious to improve
his English, to which end we engage in
long, rambling conversations which leave
us both exhausted, but firm in our con-
viction that we’ve struck another blow for
international good-fellowship. But I don’t
know why I didn’t laugh outright, and
spoil the whole thing, when we first met.
I asked what nationality he was ; he stood
up straight, and answered, with immense
pride, “Sir, lam an Ostrich.” 1
“Pawang”: Three times in the last four
years; New York State legislators, backed
by psychiatrists with medical degrees,
have introduced bills to bar anyone but
medicoes from treating mental disorders ;
they are having another try now. There
is only one answer, and Freud gave it
years ago. The ability to cure a mental
patient by psychological methods depends
on the doctor’s capacity to obtain the
“transference” with his patient; this can
occur only when the patient sees his com-
plaint through the same eyes as his
physician. This is not necessary with
physical disorder —when the doctor tells
him, for instance, that he has appendi-
citis —but when it manifests itself in some
symbolic act like a compulsion to touch
lamp-posts or in delusions of persecu-
tion, the cause of which is lodged in the
unconscious, the patient will fight to the
last ditch rather than give his complaint
up. The doctor can do nothing if he
hasn’t the power to effect the transfer-
ence —and a medical degree won’t neces-
sarily give it to him.
♦;< *> •&
“Dicky”: A hard-case among our
cheerful Aussie fraternity in London de-
cided it was time she made tracks home.
We helped her pack, got her and luggage
aboard the train, then stood about in the
dreary farewell minutes. At last the train
moved off. Louder than the whistle came
the voyager’s sudden wail: “Mygawd!
I’ve left me corsets in the middle drawer! ”
As the crowd roared, even hardened
porters halting, came the final instructions
from way down the platform: “Y’ know,
the ones that hook, up the side.”
*x* »:« »:*
“Gulliver”: That potation-partaking
dentist of “Emjai’s” (B. 30/6/’54) was
cast in a more heroic mould than the
fang-snatcher to whom I once submitted
a raging molar. The seance took place
at the ungodly hour of 9 a.m., when
neither he nor I—and, judging by results,
the anaesthetic—were at our best. The
subsequent wrenching and grinding dis-
tressed not only me, but, I’m positive,
several of my long-dead ancestors as well,
Their 20th-century representative passed
out cold > waking to find that he and the
fang, still clasped in the forceps, were
the sole occupants of the surgery. I was
hanging, pale and shaking, to the chair
when the dentist returned, equally pale
but shaking much more vigorously.
After receiving five shillings and the
assurance that I still possessed the power
of locomotion, he strongly advised a
brandy in the pub over the road—the
most unessential advice I’ve ever had
from a professional man. There I was
informed by a local that the performance
was not unusual. The effect of an extrac-
tion upon a stomach still vibrant from
the potations of the previous evening was
always the same—a case of “this is going
to hurt me more than it hurts you.”
f ♦l* *l+
“Jemac”: As most capital-city dailies
are featuring the ancient loves of the
erstwhile Prince of Wales —Sydney “Tele-
graph” has come to light with the diary
of the lady who introduced Mrs. Simpson
to the Prince, while herself in favor (don’t
introduce your donah to a pal?)—it seems
pertinent to add a hitherto-unpublished
and fishy item. While a cadet at the Royal
Naval College, Dartmouth, the then
Prince of Wales’s nickname was
“Sardine.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Foretop”: That tobacco being
“wormed, parcelled and served” (B.
23/6/’54) reminds me. The young ordin-
ary-seaman is assisted in his efforts at
splicing by the old jingle, “worm and
parcel with the lay, serve the rope the
other way.” Our bosun, recently elevated
to the wardroom, and no doubt anxious
to sound a little that way, addressed a
class of ords. thus: “Now, sonnies, don’t
forget—worm and parcel with the lay,
serve the rope in the other direction.”
>»♦ *x*
“Bellfield”: Strange that lam the first
to think of cashing-in on the most
flourishing thing in Australia today—the
Discourtesy of the Road. It wasn't until
1 worked near a busy city intersection
with no traffic-lights that I realised the
need. All day long the screaming of
brakes was accompanied by bellowing
voices flinging inspired sentences into the
air; alas that the finest flowers of even
the most stentorian were lost in the roar
of engine and whirl of wheel. Now—no
more leaning out of windows, no more
tonsil-straining hello wings, no more feel-
ings of futile frustration because the cul-
prit might not have heard. All the driver
need do is select the appropriate caption
on the dashboard, press that button, and
an illuminated sign will blaze at the
offender: “Idiot!” “Ain’t you got a
hand?” “Don’t you ever give way to the
right, mug?”
FATALITY
“Radio-comedian Jack Davey injured his back
during the Redex trial while pulling on his
boots.”
Ah, what a curious life it is!
When Fate, that chancy bit of skirt,
Struck Davey of the radio-quiz
And papers said, “His back is hurt,”
One wondered if some dowager
He welcomed with his “Hiya, Toots!”
Had slapped him down ? Oh, no! Not
her!
He did it pulling on his boots!
You’d say some cove who didn’t know
The Latin name for water-cress,
Some simple girl who couldn’t go
A minute without saying “yes,”
Some needy loser-by-the-gong
Of fridge, spin-dryer, six new suits,
Might well have . . . but it seems you’re
wrong —
It happened pulling on his boots.
Bob Dyer, now, might well have done
Some damage with his blunt sug-
gestions.
Or with his sharper fish-harpoon ;
Or, limited to 20 questions,
Suppose Elizabeth Riddell,
A panned Pandora, in cahoots
With Jimmy Russell, should rebel! . . .
But no —just pulling on his boots.
Envoy
Although the man’s an auctioneer
Of limousines and trucks and utes,
No buyer caused him pain, I fear —
He did it pulling on his boots.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'VX/'E old-fashioned blokes have had
to come to our gravy in the
matter of The Sex smoking in public,
but I still have to suppress a slight in-
ward squirm at sight of a female walking
along the street with a fag hanging out
of her mouth. Some even look a little
shamefaced about it themselves. But the
girl who came walking along the foot-
path towards me this morning didn’t look
embarrassed in the slightest. She passed
me with a glance that was neither chal-
lenging nor defiant, merely casually self-
“When I saw them advertised so cheap in the paper I wondered if
you'd remember my birthday!”
possessed. It’s hard to decide a girl’s
age with accuracy, but I’d bet I got
hers within a year—ten.—“Kerba.”
*2* *2* ♦♦♦
“Metralia”: Grandma (Redex) Conway
will not easily forgive, I feel, the malice
of the Sydney Press in unearthing in
California a flying greatgrandmother. In
this matter, at least, honor leaves Mrs.
Conway no choice of roads. Without
doubt, after the present Redex test, a
white-haired figure will join a local flying-
school. Mrs. Conway’s grandchildren,
too, have a clear-cut duty before them.
“C.K.”: On “Bo” and his doubts about
the use of the word “Ouch” (B. 30/6/’54),
let me assure him that the word was in
everyday use in the U.S. a couple of
generations ago, as an expression of pain.
As most of the comic-strips, along with
strip-poker and strip-tease, come from
that source, its use seems normal to the
intellect’ that appreciates comics. Etymo-
logy is dubious. It is said to have been
the remark of a Navajo Indian maiden
at the first sight of her prospective hus-
band ; has also been claimed to be the
sound made by the Himalayan ouch-bird
when egg-laying. Its eggs are square.
&
“Macnell”: Just completed her sea-
trials, H.M.A.S. Queenborough is one of
the most modem submarine-killers
afloat. Fitted with Limbo (successor to<
the Squid), the ship can contact a sub.
and then pretty well climb into its ham-
mock. Linfbo automatically and elec-
tronically does the rest —ranges, bearings,
speeds, all inevitably calculated and the
depth-charges fired at exactly the right
time and depth-setting. Though the con-
trol system of sub.-killing has advanced
immeasurably since the Battle of the
Atlantic, the basic principle of searching
and contacting remains the same —asdic.
Short for Allied Submarine Detection
Investigation Committee (formed, sur-
prisingly, in 1917), the principle embodies
an alternating current applied to a quartz
crystal suspended beneath the ship in a
streamlined dome, which can be trained
through a full circle. The crystal expands
and contracts; its vibrations send a pulse
of sound waves through the water.
These, reflected from a submarine, are
received back in the crystal. Then
Limbo purrs. In War II asdic had a
range of about one mile. Neptune knows
what it’s up to now.
“Jemac”: It’s all in the angle you view
it from. Newsmen covering the Redex
roundabout report with relish on the
ropeable state of the roads of Queens-
land and the Territory. And what good
would a trial be if the roads were not
ropeable? The Main Roads Board might
remember the newsmen’s glee in, say,
six months’ time, when it is under bar-
rage for the conditions which now give
reporters their best stories.
♦l*
“Bo”: It had pride of place in the
window. An eye-searing blue, in cut
something between a cardigan and a
woman’s, box-coat, with a zip-pocket on
the breast and two vertical slash-pockets,
and exaggeratedly wide shoulders the
better to dissemble the pigeon-chest of
the wearer—oh, yes, it was a —ahem
man’s garment. It was proudly named
the “Frankie Laine Jacket” —the perfect
sartorial mood for the pimpled gallant in
which to be enraptured by the lugubrious
groanings of one of Tin Pan Alley’s
greatest heroes. The price? A modest
995. 9d. The bodgie would get a trey
change from a fiver —not enough even to
buy a paper with. But what odds—you
wouldn’t read about it!
“H.W.M.”: The last of the Richardson
chain of hotels in Melbourne was bought
by the National Bank for £l3l 500-
*r . r u >
there s a long list of the sites which have
changed from draughts to drafts. The
Commonwealth Bank in Collins-street
was once the Exchange Hotel; there
were at least two hotels on the site of
the head-office of the State Savings Bank,
m Elizabeth-street, while one of its branch
offices was Champion’s Queen’s Arms,
The Clarence Hotel (comer Collins-
street and Elizabeth-street) is now the
site of an E., S. & A, Bank, and the Union
Bank, Collins-street, displaced the Royal
Hotel. Where stands the Australian
“He's shy!”
Bank of Commerce was the old Sand-
hurst Hotel; the Union Bank in Little
Collins-street was once the Farmers’
Hotel. The E., S. & A. Bank, Swanston-
street, housed a wine- and spirit-store,
and on the next corner (Swanston-street
and Lonsdale-street) the National Bank
has taken the place of the old Sir Charles
Darling Hotel. And so on —as they say,
money follows money.
*> ❖
“Pawang”; I see that an American pro-
fessor is on his way to Australia to in-
vestigate the reason why, despite its thick
coat of fur, the opossum succeeds in
keeping cool in summer. I hope the
opossums will find his discoveries useful
when they hear about it, but I would be
much more impressed by the professor
if he investigated the reason why one
can never tell on a cold and frosty morn-
ing whether the piece of fresh underwear
one wants to put on is still damp from
the laundry or whether it just feels damp
because it is cold. But I don’t suppose
that would be pure science,
❖ ❖ *>
v
“F.S.”; A well-known Melbourne
artist was painting on thewwharves,s s , came
a wharfie and asked him, how long it
would take him to finish the picture.
“Oh, about three-quarters of an hour,”
he said. “Hi, mates,” the wharfie
shouted, “keep ’er going for another half-
hour gnd don’t let that other ship get in.
This bloke hasn’t finished his picture.”
*2* ❖ C*
“P.0.M.C.”; Susan Hayward’s ex-hus-
band by no means quashed one precedent
in refusing 100,000 dollars alimony (B.
30/6/’54); such payments by ex-wife to
husband have been law in Soviet Russia
for 20 years or more, when the woman
has been proven the guilty party and
when issue has resulted from the union.
It is essentially working-class legislation,
of course, applied in cases where .the
courts grant fathers in the lower-wage
brackets sole custody of the children.
❖ ❖ *2*
“Metralia”: A calendar which adorns
many Government offices—perhaps to
help us keep track of days spent waiting
for attention —issues from Mr. Winsor’s
N.S.W.G.R.’s and whines a sort of blanket
exhortation: “Make the Railways Pay.”
No more —not a hint as to how we may
set about it. The commissioner’s
approach to his woes seems to be that
of the Asiatic turning his prayer-wheel
hoping Buddha may look up from his
navel and shoulder his woes. But even
your Buddhist monk backs up his prayers
with a begging-bowl, Mr, Winsor might
show more enterprise by treating his rail-
ways as a Deserving Charity and planting
alms-boxes under his calendars.
♦Jt
“H.A.L.”: “Spokeshave” need not say
good-bye to that £4O 10s. which the
British Treasury grabbed from his £lOO
of book-royalties (B. 23/6/’54). A few
years ago Sir Compton Mackenzie,
exasnerated hv the huee slice of his
exasperated oy me nuge suce or ms
income taken in taxation, sold the copy-
jight in some of his novels and then
claimed tax-exemption on the ground
that it was a return of capital, which is
tax-free in Britain. He lost, but some of
the facts brought to light during the
hearing caused a minor sensation. A
glaring case quoted was that of Elizabeth
Goudge. Owing to cinema, broadcasting
and serial rights to one of her works all
arriving in the same financial year, she
was allowed to keep only a few thou-
sand out of a gross income in the vicinity
of £45,000. Subsequently an amendment
was passed by both Houses, allowing
authors, artists and inventors to average
their income over a period of years. A
similar concession has been granted in
Australia. If “Spokeshave” writes to the
Society of Authors, 84 Drayton Gar-
dens, London, S.W. 10, they will probably
tell him how to get a refund.
* ♦♦♦ ♦£
“Narumee”: Willing to wager there
are earth-tremors in the region of Conan
Doyle’s grave, as that writer of fine,
resounding English revolves. Melbourne
“Herald” is running a comic-strip en-
titled “Sherlock Holmes,” in which the
detective and his pompous stooge are
made to speak in modern slipshod col-
loquialisms. Holmes, referring to a pair
of pistols, asks; “The pair Mrs. Gibson
wrote about?” Watson propounds the
theory that “Someone could have hid it
there beforehand to incriminate the
girl,” to which Holmes replies: “Hardly.
She wore those overshoes to Thor
Bridge.” I’m waiting for the doctor to
mention a “dame” or a “skirt,” and for
Holmes to crush him with “Gee, you’re
kinda dumb!”
*> ❖ *2*
“J.&W.”: I was reading that British
aeronautical engineers had narrowed
down the possible causes of the Comet
crashes to three. The bloke reading the
paper over my shoulder was not im-
pressed. “They’re donkeys,” he con-
fided. “The real cause is so obvious that
any one except those coves can see it.
The Comets were blown up with
bombs, and the coves who put
the bombs in them were paid
by some foreign aircraftmaker, to
stop England getting too far ahead
in jet-aircraft design.” He was so
sure of himself that, for a moment, I
wondered whether I should write to the
De Havilland people to tell them.
*2* ❖
“Peter R.”: The advertisement-pages of
Sydney’s morning papers usually have
little in common with the passions and
sensations of the news-section, but I found
it difficult to read the “Tenders” column
of a recent issue without a little emotion.
There, amongst a job-lot of surplus
material being sold off by the Department
of Supply, and sandwiched bleakly
between Sea Otter aircraft and spares
(Nowra and Randwick), and Single Row
Wasp Engines and spares (Tottenham)
was the single item —H.M.A.S. Shropshire
(Sydney). Perhaps it’s better that way.
THE BACKBITERS
“It is unfortunately true that some women
scandalise so much they are not even aware they
are doing it; in fact, they would be highly
indignant if accused of it.” — Women’s magazine.
“Mind you, I’ve always doubted, Clare,
About that woman being his ‘lawful.’
They act, though, like a married pair —
The fights they have, I hear, are
awful! . . .
Oh, Joan told me. You know how she
Ferrets things out — she’s worse than
Billie.
But keep it to yourself—you see,
Td hate it to get back to Millie.
“It isn’t anything to do
With me, Shirl, where she gets her
money.
She spends much more than Harry’s
screw.
To say the least, it’s very funny.
It’s my idea that it’s some queer
Deals she occasionally handles.
Joan thinks — but, then, you know her,
dear.
Always so eager for her scandals!
“I think I’m as broadminded as
Anyone round, but still, I’m giving
You my opinion; Millie has
A most disgraceful way of living.
Don’t tell me, pet, you’d never heard/
Oh, yes. I’ll say it’s pretty juicy.
Listen! But please don’t breathe a
word —
Now, I’m depending on you, Lucy.
“Joan thinks she knows a lot, no doubt —
It isn’t for the want of trying.
She always loves to poke her snout
In someone else’s business, prying.
I beat her to this one, though, Flo.
When I tell her she’ll be stunned,
rather;
At last I really think I know
Just who is Millie’s baby’s father!
“You know, Dot, they’re all hypocrites,
Joan, Clare and Flo, and Shirl and
Lucy.
Ticking poor Millie there to bits.
Next they’ll have cuppas with her, you
see !
I could make lots of mischief. Dot,
If I were one to go and natter
All round the neighborhood. I’m not.
I just can’t stand this catty chatter!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
HARSH TUNE
“Further increases in Sydney bus- and tram-
fares.”
Again our petty cash to sting
The powers that be prepare
By harping on a single string—
“ Advance Australia’s Fare!”
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


sxlUldS
a 009
N) d]])|
sd
6 ™
Hospital
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The other day Sir Robert Nicholls
reached his 21st year as Speaker in the
South Australian Assembly, In Novem-
ber next he’ll overtake the record of the
only other contender for such longevity,
the late Sir Jenkin Coles. A wheatgrower
before he took to politics, Sir Robert
has had 39 of his 65 years as a Parliamen-
tarian. One of his sons, David, gave
away the land for the sea and an R.A.N.
career. A destroyerman, his war-service
included the Med. in Vampire, the
Madagascar invasion in Napier, and sur-
veying Philippines waters for the invasion
fleets in Gascoyne; he was last sighted
with two and a half rings up, first-lieuten-
ant of destroyer Arunta.
o •
“An Chuidh”: Congratulations to
Douglas Stewart on having “Ned Kelly”
produced in Ireland over Radio Eireann.
Member of the cast, and its producer
in Listowel (Co. Kerry), was—Ned Kelly!
o •
One of the briefest entries in the Aus-
tralian Who’s Who has to do with one
of the country’s hardest-worked judges:
SHORTLAND, his Honor Judge Percy
Douglas, M.A., Hons., Syd., District Court
Judge, N.S.W. Recreation, football.
Address, Cooper-street, Strathfield, N.S.W.
Withal, a good description. Like the
entry, the judge was self-sufficient; at
university he had the arts and law career
his “Hons.” hints at; and, as the bare-
ness of the entry suggests, he was one of
the most modest of men. As fpr the
address, till he retired in 1950, he saw
little enough of it, legal colleagues con-
ceding that, with a circuit extending from
Parramatta to Bourke, he worked as
hard as two men. While he was there,
and before he took to judging in 1939,
he was mayor of the municipality
for six years. The recreation listed could
take in, as well as presidency of the
University Rugby Union, a like post with
the Western Suburbs Cricket Club. He
died at Strathfield last week.
• •
Last year was the 100th anniversary
of the Victorian police force, as well as
of the office of chief-commissioner.
There have been 11 of them; the first,
William Henry Fancourt Mitchell, who
had to handle five murders in his first
day of office, and one the day after, as
well as two cases of furious driving.
Cases of furious driving have gone up
since then, but general crime has declined
enormously, and the credit for this, in
recent years, goes in large degree to the
17-year-old commissionership of Alex-
ander Mitchell'Duncan, his men and their
modern equipment. Duncan joined-up as
a bobby in London, transferred to Scot-
land Yard, and after 17 years in the
C.1.D., ended-up chief-inspector. Three
years later (1937) he was chief-com-
missioner in Victoria.
Last year Major-General Selwyn
Havelock Porter was in Borneo, attend-
ing the dedication of the cross of sacri-
fice in Labuan war-cemetery; he com-
manded an Australian brigade at the
landing there eight years earlier. While
in Borneo he heard of his appointment
as C.M.F. representative on the Military
Board —the militia’s top-ranking post.
Infantry major in the first Libyan cam-
paign and brigadier by 1942, he was on
the job as staff-manager of the Myer
Emporium in Melbourne when he heard
of his appointment as the 12th Chief-
Commissioner of the Victorian police-
force. Born at Tintaldra (Vic.), Mark
1905.
• •
Dr. Wildried Sarrazin, first Consul
appointed by the Federal Republic of
Germany to Westralia, has taken station
in Perth. An intellectual-looking, high-
domed 44, he comes from three years’
consular experience in Marseilles. One
of the few survivors of Hitler’s Sixth
Army, he was captured at Stalingrad in
1943 and remained p.-0.-w. in Russia
until 1949.
Due for six weeks’ soceering of Aus-
tralia, the New Zealand team is man-
aged by C. C. Holland, by trade account-
ant, by relation brother of Priminister
Sidney George. There is a soccer
relationship as well —Sidney managed the
1932 Enzed team to tour Australia, repped
for the South Island and for some years
refereed Test matches; C.C. presides
over the N.Z. Hockey Association. In
business, too —the brothers together
founded the Midland Engineering Co. in
Christchurch after War I.
• •
“Macnell”: Author of the crisply-
written, 660-page The War At Sea (first
volume of three), Captain S. W. Roskill,
D.S.C., R.N., pulls no punches when it
comes to surfacing Admiralty mistakes
in strategy and tactics; he complements,
in some degree, criticism formulated by
Alastair Mars in his recent book Court
Martial. No doubt Roskill’s wide
experience had bearing on his selection
for the enormous job—he was second-in-
command of battleship Warspite, flag-
ship of Admiral Sir Dudley Pound, and
later of Sir Andrew Cunningham ; served
under Pound at the Admiralty; gQt
first-hand knowledge of the Pacific fight-
ing in command of cruiser Leander, and
when she was heavily damaged in action
had a look-sea at Yank methods as a
member of the Admiralty delegation in
Washington. Roskill led the British Ser-
vices team at the first trial of the atomic
bomb against warships at Bikini, and
after that was right in the swim as
Deputy-Director of Naval Intelligence.
As well he had the boon of looking over
the enemy’s shoulder, with free access to
the almost complete archives of the
German Navy, seized at the end of the
war.
• •
John “Corroboree” Antill has almost
completed the score of another ballet
—one with a flavor every bit as Austra-
lian as his first; main characters. The
Sentimental Bloke and Ginger Mick.
Quietly spoken, quick-smiling, with an
alert intelligence revealed in swift facial
gestures, Antill has been with the A.B.C.
many years —at different times chorus-
master, presentation-officer, writer of
background-music for documentaries,
and, at present, music-director. As pre-
sentation-officer his job was to help
visiting celebrities —correct distance from
mike, and so on —as well as to see that
orchestra-broadcasting was correctly and
sonically balanced. This last function, he
says, has helped him considerably with
his orchestration. “Corroboree” was
CORROBOREE ANTILL
recently recorded by Adrian Boult in
England; the commentary has been
translated into 43 languages. When not
music-making, its author gardens, in
between scoring a tap on the launch he’s
building in his front yard at Sydney’s
Hunter’s Hill, up the Parramatta,
Francis Robert Nelson has been taking
almost annual steps since 1951. In that
year he was appointed Victoria’s first
Crown Counsel, an office created to fill
the blank when Crown Prosecutor
Winnecke became Solicitor-General. The
following year he added Q.C. to his
name; now he steps up to the County
Court Bench. Nelson has prosecuted
in most of the major Victorian criminal
trials of recent years, among them the
long-drawn-out Kerr case.
• •
New Crown Prosecutor in Victoria,
John W. Flannagan was admitted to the
Bar at 21, but transferred for a time to
the A.I.F. (practice. Middle East and
New Guinea), where he finished-up as
lieutenant-colonel and Director of
Prisoners of War and Internees. This
posting gave him a handy line on his next
job—investigation of all war-crimes
against Australian military personnel.
He prepared his country’s case for the
International Tribunal on major war
criminals, which sat in Tokyo.
• •
Eric Lloyd’s grin, shown here at half-
stretch, reminds one of the ear-to-ear
dental displays of Don Bradman and
Kingsford-Smith; like Smithy’s, the
Lloyd grin was conditioned in cockpits.
Bora in Brisbane 36 years ago, he hopped
early into the War II R.A.A.F. as a
navigator in bombers. When artist Lusby
met him in North Africa in 1942 Lloyd
BOMBER LLOYD
was getting near the end of a long stretch
with Australian Wellington squadron 458
and had earned a D.F.C. guiding the
illustrious Wimpies. He used his “rest-
posting” on a flying course, and got back
into the bomber-business as a pilot. His
six years of it covered England, Europe,
North Africa, Malta and the Pacific
After a post-war period as reporter in
the Queensland State Reporting Bureau,
he became secretary to Premier Hanlon;
in 1951 he set his sights on the State
seat of Kedron, and still holds it.
• •
“Uramao”: During War 11, John
Denvir, an Enzedder serving with the
20th Battalion, was taken prisoner in
Greece. ' He escaped in 1941, but was
recaptured. On his next shot he was
more successful, and joined the partisan
forces in Slovenia. Under Tito
he rose to command a partisan
brigade, won D.C.M. and the Soviet
Medal for Valor. His services were
remembered by his comrades in Yugo-
slavia ; the other day he received from
V. Popovic, Consul-General in New
Zealand, several gifts and photographs
of scenes where battles were fought.
Denvir, now a coalminer, through a con-
fusion of identity with an Australian
mate. Gunner Colin Cargill, was listed as
killed. The Australian, who was in pos-
session of a page of Denvir’s paybook
when the two made the first escape, was
captured and shot by the Italians.
To become the first helicopter pilot in
the Australian Army, Captain R. R.
Harding is off to England and the U.S.
for training in whirligiggers. A Dun-
trooner, lately of Korea, Harding had
the sizeable job during the Royal visit
of looking after all tour-transport in
N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia and
the A.C.T.
THOMAS PATRICK O’BRIEN, 45
years in the flour-business in Queensland,
managing-director of the Defiance Mill-
ing Co. in Toowoomba, and of the Dalby
Milling Co. on the Downs. Three young
O’Briens mill with him.
The Australian bunny has
been! relieved of its greatest menace now
that Dr. L. B. Bull —past his 65th birth-
day—has gone into retirement from
C.5.1.R.0. It was mainly his prolonged
researches which were responsible for
the success of myxomatosis. As chief of
the Division of Animal Health and Pro-
duction he directed the campaign which
spread the lethal business from one end
of the continent to the other. He made
his division world-famous as a leading
centre for animal-health research and his
advice was sought by scientists of every
country. He continues association with
C.5.1.R.0. as Senior Research Fellow
and member of the Advisory Cbuncil.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Joseph Patrick Fogarty,
Collin s-street specialist and, earlier, military
medico. With the 21st Battalion at Gallipoli
and in France, he came out with 0.8. E., M.C.
and five “mentions.”
In Fremantle, at 62, David W. Baton, Old
Digger, naval man before that, and with further
service with the 2nd A.I.F. in the Middle East.
Wrestler and gymnast in younger days, he was
one of the best-known identities on the Fre-
mantle waterfront, a particularly hard worker
for, the Flying Angel Mission and other organisa-
tions for the welfare of seamen. He served
several terms on the R.S.L. State Executive.
At 75, in Sydney, Colin George Watt
Davidson, retired in 1948 after more than 20
years on the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench.
First graduate of Sydney University Law School
to reach that Bench, and there longer than any
other judge, he chaired several royal commis-
sions 6n coal; his pame is perhaps best-known
in association with the Davidson report on the
coal-industry, issued just after War 11. Appointed
to represent civilian interests in the Common-
wealth Co-ordination Committee in 1943, he
was knighted-in the same honors list as fallow-
judge Charles Gavan Duffy, in January, 1952.
In Brisbane, at 96, Sam Knowles, senior
trustee and last of the original members of the
city’s old Albert-strSet Methodist Church. With
his trim beard, widely known in Queensland s
gemmology circles, he had presided for nine
years over the Federated Retail Jewellers Asso-
ciation, and founded the Queensland Justices
Association.
In Melbourne, at 82, Thomas Trumble, in
War I Secretary for Defence, in War II Director
of Voluntary Services, and, in between wars,
secretary and defence liaison-officer at Aus-
tralia House, London. His brother was that
mighty bowler, Hugh Trumble; his nephew
is Hugh Christian Trumble, appointed Waite
Professor of Agronomy at Adelaide Uni-
versity in 1941.
At 68, in Brisbane, David Alfred Crawford,
more than 30 years with the Queensland Main
Roads Board. As chief-engineer he left hxs
mark on State roads, aerodromes and other
military installations in War 11, and in
succeeded Sir John Kemp as commissioner. He
lectured for a time on surveying at Queensland
University.


AtiP HOuJ MUCH
coma you FO^C
US; MiSTCR.?,
V '
uSUfiii- TkMO IS y
FoofL *%. *
\\ .
AMP AS MUCH AAO&H A 6 /ou
CARS TO O/VB THS CHUfCCH .
V
%y, 'TUB-RE-S Mar GOfNOWet:
' too MUCH OF TH& MUCH N\OR& •
ROMANCE v. ECONOMICS


ABORIGINALITIES
AT Mt. Hagen, New Guinea, it
*** was a bite-in-the-air sunny highland
morning. On the veranda of the District
Office you could hear the dry comment
of the commissioner on current native
litigation. From down around the steps
came the staccato rattle of police-boy
pidgin. Spokesmen harangued groups
of about a thousand Wahgis squatting
in the near-foreground. A dozen speeches
at once in the semi-yodelling patois of
the valley. Close by a foot-and-a-half-
high kanaka tot gave voice to the univer-
sal wail “Ma-rqaaaa!” This eased the be-
wilderment of the four-year-old daughter
of a visiting Australian matron. “Mum,”
cried the kid, “they talk English!”—
“Ybsul.”
* ♦ ♦ *t
“Brick E.”: Quite feasible that a
chimney stood more than 30 years even
though the mortar was composed of sand,
flour mistaken for lime, and cement (B.
16/5/’54). In fact, the flour probably did
a better jqb than the old bag of lime
would have done. In those days hydrated
lime wasn’t known to the building trade ;
rock-lime was always used, and had to
be slaked to a milky consistency. A bag
of lime left in a shed for a few weeks
became air-slaked, and that was potential
trouble. Air-slaked lime contained “core”
—little knobs which refused to dissolve
in water, blit which invariably “blew”
after the job was done. They not only
burst out the joints, but could, and did,
lift and crack brickwork.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Swelpme”: Nature seems determined*
to keep budgerigars unique among cage-
birds. No sooner has a new color become
common among the tribe than she evolves
another. Even in her mistakes she is
masterly, as “runners” demonstrate.
These quaint little creatures (attributed,
not always correctly, to excessive line-
breeding) never grow flight-feathers,
though in other respects they can be
perfectly healthy and of good appearance.
Runners sell even more readily than
flyers, since their peculiarity makes them
ideal house-pets without any
necessity to keep their cut.
Recently a commotion in the
darkness told me that cats were
performing their favorite trick
of springing at the wire of my
aviary—thereby scaring the birds
into flying towards the strongest
light, the wire, and thus within
reach of tearing claws, I
switched the light on. Those badly
panicked fowl took 15 minutes to settle
down and find their perches by the arti-
ficial light. But one little bloke was not
dismayed—the runner; as soon as the
light came on he bustled to the feed-
trough, climbed in, and literally improved
the shining hour.
* * ♦ ♦
“Kay”: Further proof of human
domination over brute creation. Stand-
ing abstractedly in my suburban back-
yard, J looked up to see the fummy next-
door, who’s not too popular with me for
various past sins, peering fixedly at me
through a hole in the fence 20ft. away.
I was on the direct path he uses to cross
our domains. Through childish perver-
sity, scientific curiosity or merely to show
my resentment at those numerous liber-
ties, I determined to outstare him, if it
took all afternoon. For fully two minutes
we both remained immovable, eyes
riveted. Just as, despite my resolution
and all that my defection would imply,
I was about to give it away, Tom began
to shift his gaze, here, there and back
again, then turned and silently stole away.
* * * *
“Warrabulla”: The “married man’s
swag” may be “fat and unwieldy” (B.
16/6/’54), but it never had anything on
the swags belonging to those pampered
darlings of the woolsheds and mustering-
"I 'm just building it as a hobby. It takes my mind off my work.”
camps, the cooks. These favored gentry,
relying on their scarcity for preferential
treatment, always demanded and got
transport from job to job ; from camp
to camp they travelled in the cart, and
consequently were able to take with them
swollen rolls which contained everything
—even unto the Sunday suit. However,
one whom I encountered in Westralia’s
nor’-west lived to regret laying up so
much treasure on earth. Cooking for the
station-hands at shearing-time, he de-
veloped exaggerated ideas of his indis-
pensability, and issued an ultimatum to
the boss —“More money, or I quit at
"No, the ’skeeters never trouble me out west. But I'm terrible
scared of grasshoppers.”
once.” The master, never a man to be
stood over, promptly issued him a
cheque, less a week’s pay in lieu of
notice. When the flabbergasted babbler
could speak again he requested trans-
port to town —15 miles —on the station’s
truck next trip, only to be told “no dice.”
Five-foot-nothing, he started off beneath
an enormous drum to the ironical
cheers of the hands; for a mile or so the
musterers provided a mounted escort,
countering his revilings with spurious
offers to “double-bank” him a couple of
miles.
* * * ♦
“Griff”: List to the radio-voice!
“There were ten points of rain at Dilla
Donna ; farmers .are jubilant. Goattown
received twenty points; graziers are
jubilant.” Lucky farmer! Crusty earth
on fields to forestall any tender young
heads about to peep. Wheat in ear? A
light shower —no harvesting this season.
The grazier is splitting his sides—a slow
cold drizzle on lambing-ewes to make
mustering so simple! Treacherous green
shoots to entice a devastating grass-
hopper plague. And the long eye of the
A.B.C. sees these men hopping around
exultingly!
* * ♦ ♦ *
“Hanko”: Despite Fritz’s wildly-
waved stick, the nest-guarding magpie
knocked off his hat and soundly boxed
his ears, whereupon he broke into a tor-
rent of low German. The ’pie, besides
being furious, was evidently a linguist;
it dived, channeled a groove in the
German’s skull, and clouted his lugs
forcefully. Fritz trotted home for his gun.
The maggie was still aggressive. “Click,
click,” snapped the hammers. Fritz
puffed over to where we were ramming
a strainer. “I do forged to load mein
gun,” he said. “Yoost as veil, or I blow
dot mudpie into von bits!”
* * « *
“G.G.2”: The 800100 800100 Hole,
in the Hamilton River, about midway'
between Warenda station and Boulia
(W.Q.), used to be sacred to the old-time
abos. No gin was allowed to go
near it; for her to drink of its
waters was unthinkable, Boori,
an old buck, was in my outfit,
and as we passed the waterhole
he rode to the fringe of coolibahs,
tied his horse to a tree, and
sneaked over the bank on his
hands and knees. J?Bon he
returned rather hurriedly, and
glancing back uneasily over his
shoulder. That night, in the con-
fidential darkness, old Boori told
me something of the debbil-
debbil which dwelt in 800100
800100. Long ago a mob of
blacks was camped at the hole.
All was well until a wandering
purinthy (goanna) in search of a
mate entered the camp. He fixed
his eye on a young gin. She
screamed and fled. Purinthy
chased her. She ran up
a f leaning coolibah. Purinthy followed.
The lubra dived into the water. The
big goanna did the same. As Boori
tersely explained it: “Him been catch
’im. Him been make ’im,” The union,
according to legend, was fruitful: their
offspring live in 800100 800100 Water-
hole even unto this day. No white man
may see them; but they are ever on the
lookout for an attractive gin. Thus the
ban.
* * * *
“Stet”: It was soon obvious that the
new efficiency-expert in the composing-
room was not interested in making
friends. His new broom swept dustily
with uncomfortable results. One day
the comps saw him gazing dubiously at a
line-block of a generously proportioned
bull intended for a rural weekly. He
called to a bloke in the stereo-depart-
ment. “I think you’d better chip this,”
he said, indicating the offending block.
“It doesn’t look too good the way it is.”
Said the stereo man; “Listen, mate. I’m
a stereo-hand, not a veterinary
surgeon! ”
* • ♦ •
“P.O.M.C.”; “Debbelje” is the true
name for double-gees, two of the spikes
forming the horns and the third, the
pointed beard, of Mephistopheles (B.
30/6/’54). The pest is as common
around the suburbs of Perth as in the
nor’-west, but I have always found the
less vicious but otherwise identical type
to be known as bindy-eyes in other parts
of Australia.
* * * *
Wrecks and Castaways
OEA customs and superstitions have
curious similarity in various parts of
the world. Anglo-Saxons once consid-
ered it unlucky to rescue a drowning
man ; the Islanders of Torres Strait had
much the same idea when they dis-
patched castaways thrown on to their
beaches. “They brought us bad luck,”
my old friend Jimmy Susu used to tell
me, “We had to kill them so they
wouldn’t spoil our island.” That applied
to male castaways —women and young
boys were usually saved.
With wreckage, everything washed up
was spoil to the finder, who regarded
it as his lawful property, despite the
general custom of communal possession.
Cornish wreckers, Bass Strait convict-
sealers and Islanders all practised the
art of luring ships ashore. At Stephen
Island, on the steamer passage which
leads through Torres Strait past Bramble
Cay, they will tell you that so many
wrecked ships lie about the reefs because
of the “good medicine” of the zogo-man,
who used a stone figure out on the reef
to help him with the “pulling-in” of
passing craft in the sailing-days.
I’ve handled many articles from old
wrecks off Stephen, shown to me by
Islanders who’d secured them, though I
was not successful in glimpsing the mys-
terious “Fire-eye” which old hands told
me is buried somewhere on the island,
and is thought to be something in the
nature of jewels brought ashore by a
woman who escaped from, a near-by
wreck.
In England in 1776, by the way, Burke
brought in a measure enacting that the
value of • plundered wrecks should be
levied from the inhabitants of the locality
where the wreck occurred ; the country
gentry vehemently opposed it, however,
maintaining that it was an attack on their
vested interests, and it was thrown out
C. Coral.
CHANTICLEER
Out of the country darkness suddenly
A cry came, rising, falling, like a spear
Meant for the heart of silence. It is he,
The importunate chanticleer.
The mopoke’s wood-wind note still sounds at
times
Out of the eucalypt. The hour is calm.
No magpie matins yet, no bell-bird chimes,
No yellow-robin psalm.
If harmony could be seen as well as heard,
Like a small falling star across the sky
Your summons would be sighted, charmed bird;
Before the sound went by.
You were Alectryon once, the lad that slept
Nor warned those lovers dawn was on the wing;
Yours was the voice Saint Peter heard, and wept
Sorely, remembering.
Now —but a crowing fowl from some farm-yard,
Some breached stack below the darkling hill. . .
A matter none beside myself regard
As transcendental still.
Bird of the dawning, where the first stars falter,
Crying day’s resurrection from the range,
Your charge is sacrosanct and cannot alter,
Fixed, and will never change.
So call your compeers; through the half-light
thrust
The sword-blade of your summons while you
may,
Till comes that awesome moment when you
must
Cry up the Judgment Day.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


WHEN the rabbits invaded W.A. they
must have seemed like manna to
the natives, who knew just how to deal
with burrowing animals. They dug them
out, with sharp-pointed sticks, just as
they’d been doing for centuries with a
much tougher bloke. This was the dal-
gite, or dolgoitch, in world class as a
digger. Ploughing in the wheat-belt
I’ve disturbed one and seen it dig itself
out of sight before the team had travelled
30yds. This speed often saved Dal. (or
Dol.) from the natives. While they were
following his burrow he’d work his way
to the surface and escape, sometimes
without being seen. But if he thus
cheated the natives of one sort of feed,
he sometimes gave them another. He
had a fancy for the grubs found in the
roots of jam-trees, which the natives
liked, too. But, while he was able to
detect the grub through several inches
of soil, he couldn’t always extract it from
the tough root; and the natives often
got their luxury by following him and
taking what he’d been forced to leave,
—“Bass.”
* * ♦ ♦
“A.D.T.”: I had come on the small
entrance to a cave a few miles from our
homestead on the Barkly Tablelands
(Q.) and injudiciously told the missus.
Enthusiastically she insisted on our ex-
ploring it. We had just entered its dim
recesses when she gave a bit of a squeal
and drew my attention to the shed skin
of a python. It was a beauty—about 12ft.
long and perfect in every scale. I was
just bending to pick it up when the
ophidian inside it moved. But not as fast
as we did.
* * ' ♦ *
“Dick the Fossicker”: Any white with
a straight eye can be just as good as
the average abo. in the spear-throwing
art. It’s essential, though, to have
a properly-made and -balanced missile.
Length depends on weight. Those with
light reed or bamboo shafts, and a small
hardwood point, need be no more than 6ft.
long ; but up to 12ft. is necessary for the
heavy ones, made entirely of hardwood.
Point of balance must be about two-fifths
of the length, measured from the point.
Stiffness of shaft is most important.
Limp spears that wriggle and
vibrate in flight will never be
accurate. Easiest types to handle
have Bft. bamboo shaft and,
socketed in the end, Ift. hard-
wood point. Using the woomera
is easy, if you remember to
start the spear moving slowly,
and accelerate until you give a
final flick. Aiming accurately
comes only with practice.
“Aiming-off” is necessary, for
your line of sight runs parallel
to, and not along, the spear-
shaft. You must allow for trajectory,
too. To hit a sugar-bag of saw-
dust at 50yds. I have to aim at a
point 3ft. to the right of the target and
some 6ft. above it. Some white kiddies
get the knack very quickly. After three
one-hour lessons, a week apart, I’ve taught
four Boy Scouts out of a squad of 11 to
hit a cardboard-carton a foot square, at
25yds., in three throws out of five.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I found a swamp-pheasant
feeding in a water-course adjacent to a
Sydney seaside suburban street. He
made no attempt to fly when I approached
him, merely moving off slowly, and his
natural camouflage rendered him scarcely
perceptible through the reeds. I fol-
lowed him for about half a mile, during
which time he kept just a few paces
ahead, feeding unconcernedly. Twice in
that distance he sprang on to a high log
and gave his strange whooping call.
With head like a large cuckoo, the back
plumage of a hawk and the short, stout
legs and long tail of a pheasant, he pre-
sented a curious picture. And apparently
a sinister one to the nesting-birds near by,
for when he finally rose and made off
“What SECOND Redex trial ?”
with slow, ungainly flight they attacked
him from all quarters with sudden fury.
* * * *
“Mingari”: The Mahommedan style
of smoking a fag through the cupped
hand, mentioned by “Clunesman” (B.
23/6/’54), is pretty common among their
clan, and I’ve even seen it practised by
Malay coolies on shipboard. The heathen
Chinee, though he smokes in the conven-
tional manner, generally rolls a funnel-
shaped fag, the larger end of which he
lights. This results in some tobacco-
saving, as only the smallest possible butt
remains to be discarded; furthermore,
the smoker gets an ample supply of
smoke from the fat end nicely cooled
by being drawn through a fair wad of
weed. Very cunning, the Chinese.
* * * *
“Bass”: When we took over a French
workshop in Syria much of the equipment
Was badly damaged, and we had to impro-
vise. For a rheostat—a device to regulate
the amount of current in a circuit—l
partly-filled a container with water. The
container became one electrode, the
other was a V-shaped metal sheet which
d be immersed or withdrawn to in-
crease G r reduce contact, and conse-
quently current . It didn’t work properly
un fli j a dded salt, which increased con-
ducflvity immeasurably. Incidentally, ask
fl water j s an electrical conductor and,
n j ne times out of ten, you’ll be told it is.
it isn’t; and a test of a water’s purity, is
its resistance to electricity. Absolutely
pure water is an insulator. Trouble is,
it’s almost impossible to test it. The
moment the test-points are placed in it
the water becomes slightly impure, and
the impurity will carry a current.
AFTER RAIN
Feathery grasses sweet and clean,
the tree-trunks black or silver-grey
with little mists which drift between:
this is the hillside after rain.
Softly exclaiming, a swift blue jay;
a tree-frog’s plaint, like a cry of pain;
and sudden movements through the green;
all this, and I am a child again,
hearing as only a child the cry
of one who calls . . . and passes by.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
END OF A PROBLEM
TPHE letter I had received from our
outfer-suburban shire council had
been terse. It read:
Sir,
Council’s engineer has reported that
there is in the gutter immediately in
front of your residence a large heap of
rose-prunings. This constitutes an un-
authorised obstruction to Council’s thor-
oughfare and is therefore an offence
under the Local Government Act,
You are requested to move it im-
mediately, otherwise Council will be
forced to take legal proceedings.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk.
What is allegedly termed progress had
caught up with me. There used to be a
large paddock at the back where I
tossed my rose-prunings, burning them
when they dried out, often months later.
New houses have been built there. I
“Lovely dryin' day, Mrs. McFurze !”
couldn’t annoy my new neighbor by
heaving them over the back as hereto-
fore, because he is in the wholesale hard-
ware game and can get quite a good
cut off things. So I thought it more
prudent to confine future heavings-over
to the front fence.
I confess I was slightly hurt by the
dropping, from Council’s communica-
tion, of the usual preliminary term of
endearment. To show that no small
pettiness of spirit governed my relations
with the shire-clerk, I stuck to my
normal courteous style in my reply; „
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir,
With reference to yours of the ,18th
June,' I note your claim that my placing
of rose-prunings in the gutter consti-
tutes an offence.
The whole point, it seems to me, re-
solves itself into this: What constitutes,
under the Local Government Act, a
gutter? Your reference to the paspalum-
choked swamp I have to leap over at the
edge of the alleged road as a “gutter”
appears to be, as well as a choice example
of a euphemism, as rare a piece of un-
witting humor as Council has yet per-
petrated in our long epistolic relationship.
Yours faithfully.
It was following the next Council meet-
ing that I received a reply, still addressed
non-endearingly;
Sir,
Your remarks have been noted. 1
must inform you that the gutter is a
gutter within the meaning of the Act.
Council feels mat the building of an
incinerator would resolve your difficulty
in this matter, and Council’s engineering
staff is willing to give you such advice as
you need to ensure sound construction.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk.
I felt in honor bound to keep the
correspondence going:
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir,
Your remarks of the 12th ultimo have
been noted. If I am to be put to the
expense of building an incinerator, I
feel that this would be quite unwar-
ranted were I not able to expand it into
a larger structure and make it a private
crematorium, and thus combine profit-
able business with the pleasure of burn-
ing my rose-prunings. Have I Council’s
permission for the construction of such
a structure and the prospect of getting a
licence to operate it?
Yours faithfully.
There was another council meeting,
after which came this reply:
Sir,
Your communication asking permission
to erect a combined incinerator and
crematorium was placed before Council
and unanimously rejected. Furthermore,
Council decided that unless the rose-prun-
ings are removed within 48 hours legal
proceedings will be taken.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk.
Well, here it was! I replied:
Dear Sir,
With reference to yours of the 30th
inst. I note with regret the rejection of
my application. May I say that I have
no intention of building an incinerator
for the exclusive purpose of the thermal
disposal of rose-prunings.
There is, I feel, another solution, pos-
sibly acceptable to Council. In view of
the perpetual precariousness of Couricil’s
finances —manifested by the fact that it
is about seven years since the pot-holes
were last filled-in in this street, all repre-
sentations having been met with the howl
of “No money!”—l should be remiss in
my duty as a ratepayer were I not to
make some voluntary contribution to
assist Council’s fiscal position.
I therefore offer Council, gratis , the
rose-prunings, which I suggest be used
as a base-material for re-making our
street. They could scarcely be less in-
ferior to what Council has used in the
past, and the thorns would at least help
bind the tacky goo you select to pour
over the alleged road during heat-waves.
Yours faithfully.
To which they replied, in due course:
Sir,
Your offer has been received and
rejected. You are again reminded that it
is your obligation to remove the rose-
prunings at once. If this is not done, legal
proceedings will be instituted against
you.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk.
I still felt the joust should continue.
So.
Dear Sir,
With the inexplicable rejection • by
Council of my most generous offer, I
feel now that the logical solution to the
problem would be the holding by Council
of a Clean-up Week. This would enable
me to get rid also of a few dozen old
paint-tins and dead-marines, as well as
an old iron bedstead, which I fear if
not disposed of shortly may endanger
the health of the municipality by en-
couraging rats around it.
Yours faithfully.
It came:
Sir,
Your communication of 4th inst. to
hand. Provision of transport for a Clean-
up Week is quite impossible in view of
the lack of finances. You are hereby
given seven days to remove the rose-
prunings from the gutter, failing which
legal proceedings will be taken against
you.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk.
So:
Dear Sir,
No?
Well, what if I shove ’em in the dirt-
box?
Yours faithfully.
To which, this:
Sir,
Rose-prunings are not considered by
Council as garbage within the meaning
of the Local Government Act. You are
hereby informed that legal action will be
taken if the rose-prunings are not dis-
posed of within seven days.
Yours faithfully,
B. TUERP,
Shire Clerk-
Finale :
The Town Clerk.
Dear Sir,
You will be delighted to know that
effluxion of time has solved our mutual
problem. •
Last night was Guy Fawkes night.
Yours faithfully.
Bo.


umfaia/
CAfsm
&
m. m
'::
\VkV.
THE DEPENDABLE Cl GAR! TIE
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
HIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ci high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cosh The
■■National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built mtitily I* Ausi/ahm by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agmtt—*
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Vty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD,. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Investments Stronger
CJINCE June 30 the demand for
good industrial shares evi-
dent earlier has grown in volume.
Most of the leaders have now
joined in the advance, whereas
earlier rises were mostly con-
fined to -cases where interim
dividends by second-line stocks
were higher, or where it was
evident that a particular Indus-
try or company was doing excep-
tionally well.
8.H.P., C.S.R., British To-
bacco, Edwards Dunlop, General
Industries, 1.C.1., Mercantile
Mutual Insurance, Kandos
Cement, Masonite, Email and
Associated Leathers have been
some of the leaders to move
forward strongly ; other stocks
to show outstanding strength
have been F. J. Walker, Minster,
J. Gadsden, Swans, Beau Monde
Hosiery, R. B. Davies, W. C.
Stevens and McDowells.
Most of the well-manased
Most ot the well-managed
enterprises operating m Aus-
traha should have had a good
year, helped by the taxation
concessions that were granted to
public companies in the last
Budget. It may be that some of
the present appreciation in share-
values is based on hopes of good
things to come in the next Bud-
get. It is not wise to count
your chickens before they are
hatched ; but, on what is already
known of last year’s trading
experience and the 1953-54 tax-
concessions, many concerns
shpuld be in a position to pay
a higher dividend in respect of
the past year. In particular,
those cos. which kept their div.
low in 1953 in order to reduce
a bank-overdraft should be in a
more mood this time.
On Again!
Demand for oil shares of all
kinds and sizes has grown since
the announcement on June 25 of
oil-shows in the Rough Range
No. 1 well at 9789 ft, Attempts
to test the horizon having failed
through the unsatisfactory nature
of the sides of the hole, the mar-
ket for shares in Ampol Ex-
ploration has steadied around £5
again, which is 20s. higher than
before the announcement, but
255. below the top price.
Most shares have gone up and
down in sympathy with the
cos but many ike Am-
P o ’ ar ® stl considerably hig er
they were before June 25.
A nc agam the market is rus
mg new oil-flotations regardless
of . while Papuan Api-
naipi ’ stlll to get its permit, has
kept aboVe paf The only con .
cem tQ difficulty in keeping
nose above par at the moment
Australian Oil and Gas, which
i s interested mainly in the Syd-
ney Basin.
Nearly every oil—or “oil” —
issue on the Stock Exchanges is
geared, in market appraisal, to
Ampol Exploration or ’Oil
Search. As they go, so go the
rest. Closer than the rest to
Ampol are Associated Freney
and its kith and kin. Freney
equity-holders of various nomen-
clature will have a particular in-
terest in the Wapet bore later to
be drilled near the Freney boun-
dary surrounding Nerrima
Dome.
The oil-share boom is at a
high level. Its immediate future
will depend to some extent on
what shows—-within a few days,
drilling going to plan—in the
new hole being drilled as a
“producer” near Rough Range
No. 1, and upon results from
the bypass-hole at Omati No. 1
in Papua. In neither instance is
the position yet clear.
Rough Range No. 2
From L. Owen: In the small
hours of Sunday, July 4
1.50 a.m., Perth time, to be
exact —the W.A. Minister for
“And what, may I ask, young man, do YOU know
about the law?”
Mines threw in the. clutch which
started the rotary table of the
T-32 drilling-rig erected on
Wapet’s second location. The
good wishes of every Australian
worthy of the name and of all
with a true in the oil
industry will follow the progress
of this bore —which is expected to
reach the stratum corresponding
to 3605ft.-3620ft. in Rough
Range No, 1 in about a fortnight.
All share Minister L. F. Kelly's
hope that “Providence will treat
this second drilling with even
greater kindness than it has at
Rough Range No. 1.”
It would be both unfair and
unwise, however, to ignore
difficulties ahead. As I pointed
out in a previous note (B.
7/7/’54) the providential strik-
ing of oil at the first location —
and at a horizon far above that
anticipated—has brought in its
train a series of problems, as has,
also, the unexpectedly hard and
relatively unchanging column
which wore out drilling-bits with
exasperating frequency between
the upper and lower oil-shows. A
redeeming feature is that the
sound-velocity characteristics of
the strata between 4000 ft, apd
10,000 ft. will now be known with
much greater accuracy, and will
allow of the interpretation of the
seismic data with far more con-
fidence than in the past.
The 5, oil collected from the
3605 ft. horizon in Rough Range
No. 1 is now generally accepted
as migratory, and its viscosity
and other characteristics suggest
that it has undergone inspissa-
tion—a fact which is not very
significant at this stage, as the
process may result from many
causes, including several not
unfavorable to the possibility of
the existence of underlying com-
mercial quantities of oil.
“Inspissated,” in plain English,
denotes “thickened,” and is a
term in common use in petroleum
literature. Most of the “menes”
and “breas” which are a marked
surface-feature of the oil-country
of South America, and of which
a famous example is the Trinidad
Pitch Lake, consist of crude oil,
inspissated to a greater or lesser
degree.
After over 30 years of active
participation in the search for
and exploitation of petroleum,
I have still to meet any “school
of geologists” which considers
“inspissated” to refer to “oil so
thinly dispersed over various
subterranean levels, that it may
never give a well-flow of com-
mercial strength at any one
point,” and I hope that the reason
for this misleading and com-
pletely incorrect definition
(which appeared recently in a
Sydney Sunday newspaper) is
merely misquotation.
Metropolitan Cement
As production by the Maldon
(N.S.W.) plant of
old Metropolitan Cement has
risen with the overcoming of
early production difficulties, out-
put by the older-established
N.S.W. cement companies has
mounted also. The result, as the
Division of Industrial Develop-
ment puts it:
The demand for Australian cement
is at a record level, and practically
all production has been readily sold,
witlf the exception of the output of
some works in New South Wales.
In that State there is a surplus,
potentially amounting to at least
50,000 tons, which cannot he profit-
ably sent to those States —i.e., other
than Tasmania—where there may be
a shortage.
Metropolitan Cement itself
says that “the excessive Aus-
tralian freight-rates prevent us
competing against imported
cement in the other States of the
Commonwealth.”
In short, since October 1, 1953,
Metropolitan has been produc-
ing more cement than it can
sell; furthermore, it has been
unable to get the high prices
which a benevolent Prices Branch
permitted it to charge in the
preceding year. The cement-
making co. made a loss of
£107,767 for the term to
December 31, after charging
£132,983 bank and debenture
interest and-allowing £80,714 for
depreciation. Obviously the co.
is treated generously by its
bankers, the Rural Bank of
N.S.W. —the year started with an
overdraft of £2,809,328 and
finished with £3,208,683. In
addition, there are secured deben-
tures amounting to £lOO,OOO, and
sundry creditors of £51,425.
Paid capital is £1,004,306.
Fixed assets of the cement co.
are in the books at £3,027,695
(after deducting depreciation)—
the figure is still rising slightly.
Intangibles total £472,250,
stocks, debtors, etc., £632,360,
and investments £232,109. The
lastnamed item represents the
parent’s holding in limestone and
colliery subsidiaries.
The whole plan on which the
project was based has backfired
badly. The idea was to bring the
raw materials to the Sydney
metropolitan area and make the
cement there and so take advan-
tage of N.S.W. Government
Railways freight - concessions
applying to ores as opposed to
manufactured cement.
Coal is brought from Berrima
and limestone from Marulain;
the cement is made at Maldon.
The long haul of the limestone,
now largely by road, has sent
costs soaring. Also, interest and
depreciation charges —though
both plainly on the light side —
are extraordinarily heavy in rela-
tion to output of cement. What
the co.’s actual productive
capacity is it doesn’t say, but it
mentions that, working on
reserve stocks of clinker, it is “in
a position to grind and supply
over 3000 tons of cement
weekly.” It would appear that
interest and depreciation—as
charged—would amount to from
30s. to 40s. a ton of cement
produced last year.
It is significant that last year's
earnings, even before allowing
for depreciation, were not
sufficient to meet debt charges,
let alone dividends on capital.
The £1 ords. have sunk to 3s,


Does Mr. Menzies
Really Understand
Communism?
fWo years ago Mr. Menzies made a
remarkable defence of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, of which he is Chairman,
after Government and Opposition Members
had proved it was financing Communist
and pro-Communist writers.
The current issue of the League of Rights’
Intelligence Survey deals with the latest
example of pro-Communist propaganda
being financed by the Literary Fund and
examines Mr. Menzies’ apparent inability
to understand, along with many other
public men, that Communism derives its
leadership from the so-called educated
classes and not from the workers.
Another outstanding feature of the latest
Intelligence Survey is “The Great Con-
ference Obsession,” by the famous Ameri-
can authority on Communism, W. H.
Chamberlin.
Single issues of The Intelligence Survey,
4/-, post free. Annual subscription,
£2/2/-, post free.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN IEAGDE
OF RIGHTS
: (Non-party, non-sectarian)
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
sd
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Public Notice
TO WILLIAM BAKER formerly of 85
-St. Georges Road Toorak Melbourne. —
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Victoria 1954 No. 126 by The
Bank of Adelaide in which the Plaintiff’s
claim is for £1251/5/10 being the
amount owing by you to the Plaintiff on
a guarantee by you of the debts of
BAKER TEXTILES PROPRIETARY
LIMITED AND that it has been ordered
that service of the writ in the said action
on you be effected by this advertisement
If you desire to defend the said action
you must on or before the Twelfth day
of August 1954 enter an appearance at
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court Law Courts Melbourne In default
of such appearance judgment may be
entered against you. DATED the Tenth day
of June 1954.—AITKEN WALKER &
STRACHAN, 123 William Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
This Order was taken out by MESSRS.
AITKEN WALKER & STRACHAN, Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED GEORGE MARTIN late of
40 Nicholson Street East Melbourne Vic-
toria—TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN
MARTIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1458 of 1953 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on
or before the 2nd day of November 1954
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. C. BOYLE & CO.. Solicitors, 39
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANDREW LINARDOS also known as
ANDREW SULLIVAN late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that NEDELJKO JON-
TULOVIOH has filed his Petition in
Divorce No. 582 of 1954 on the ground
of your adultery with his wife NINA
JONTULOVICH If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court Sydney by
the 25th’October 1954 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI SHEEHY,
Solicitor, of 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
in
Gunner turns teller
A few short years ago, these hands directed
gun-fire at enemy tanks and strongholds in
desert and jungle. They served Australia—and
you—in time of war. Today, in peace, they
still serve Australia—and, perhaps, you—at the
counter of a Bank of New South Wales branch.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands work in the
“Wales”—providing the banking services essen-
tial to modern trade and industry. They are
willing to work for you, too.
No*
Consult and use
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
AS4O9C
m
g
K
SIS#
Only a mighty
mill such as this
can achieve the
dense, smooth
surface perfection
of Comrol
“Superfin” Sheets.
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Fremantle, Wellington, N.Z.
I Vms # “j Ws 'o» Of
CR7-53
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Economic Talks
tvTOTHING has emerged from
IN the Government’s economic
talks with different sections of
he community over the past few
months that couldnt have
been foreseen at the oegm-
nine and was forecast by a few
wiseheads. Priminister Sid
Holland now admits openly that
there’s no single cure-all for
N Z.’s aches and pains, and that
talks like these can’t be expected
to yield spectacular results.
If the talks haven’t been fruit-
ful they have at least gained time
and stalled off demands by the
Federation of Labor for Social-
istic changes which would set
back the clock. They had their
origin in threats by the president
of the federation, F. P. Walsh,
when he hurried home from
London about the time of the
Queen’s visit. Walsh said that
workers as a body wouldn’t allow
the 10 p.c. wage-rise to be filched
from them by raising prices,
ignoring that wages were the big-
gest item in costs and must go
the rounds unless production
was lifted to absorb the rise. He
wanted a general economic con-
ference, which he and his cronies
would have used as an oppor-
tunity to abuse the Government
to their hearts’ content, but the
P.M. turned this down. After
swapping ideas with each section
in turn, the P.M. said there was
little support for the federation.
What struck Holland most was
that there was “great concern
about rising costs” among
people who produced and sold
goods as well as among those
who bought them. What pleased
him most was fairly general
agreement that N.Z. was pros-
perous, and that prosperity was
well distributed. As he talked
with bankers, farmers, econo-
mists, manufacturers, importers,
merchants, employers and
housewives, as well as with
members of the federation, he
had plenty of opportunity to size
things up.
Ideas thrown into the pool
were that interest-rates, rents
and tenancies should be freed
from control; that N.Z. should
try a variable exchange-rate,
and that a big central fund was
needed to cushion changes in
overseas income and payments.
No one could show how N.Z.
could manage if it allowed its
costs and prices to get far out of
step with the world.
The toughest problem for a
long time has /been the un-
balanced state Of the labor mar-
ket, with employers bidding
against one another for workers,
above all skilled men, and with
a heavy turnover of men in all
trades.
Said the P.M.: “Award wages
have been only a guide to many
employers, and large premiums
are being paid. On top of this,
there is much overtime work, at
high rates. In factories alone, 15
million hours of overtime were
recorded last year. This has
forced up costs and prices.”
Yet the P.M. still leans towards
over-full employment, whatever
the troubles it has brought on
N.Z. He would prefer to have
“jobs bidding for men than men
for jobs—over-employment than
under-employment.” So the
Government and the country are
still where they were in working
out basic problems, and the
Socialists are going ahead with
moves for another general wage-
order. As the general election
is only a few months off, this
might complicate matters, and
could shelve the wage-hearing to
the extent of postponing a rise
until next year.
Price-control For Ever!
So long as a lot of people in
Maoriland have a vested interest
in controls, it seems that price-
fixing must be endured, for it’s
tied up with other controls, as
the Price Tribunal has said at
length in laying down rules for
controlling prices from now on.
Humanlike, the tribunal wants
to keep itself in a job, and to
take care of the Price-control
Division which shares the work.
It has said that it is boss where
prices are concerned —the ulti-
mate authority for saying what
are reasonable prices and
whether or not folk -are getting
a fair deal. As many New Zea-
landers think this is going a bit
too far, the tribunal’s claim is
likely to be challenged, and
already the Chambers of Com-
merce are asking for legislation
to limit price-orders to goods
and services which are (1) in
undersupply, (2) subject to
monopoly, and (3) are partly
paid for by State subsidy.
If the tribunal has its way
there will be price-fixing even
where competition is active, as
manufacturers have had reason
to know already. Not satisfied
with the three grounds which
business thinks give price officials
enough scope, the tribunal has
unearthed quite a few others. For
instance, where exchange- or
import-controls, or tariffs, or all
three, stand in the way of com-
petition from outside, the tri-
bunal intends to keep a close
watch on prices. Or, where local
industries are licensed, such as
the breweries, hotels, picture-
theatres, tyre-manufacturing
plants, fertilisers and drugs, and
many others, the tribunal rubs its
hands and says: “Here’s a job
for me.” Brewery cos., which
own or control most of the
hotels, have been kicking for a
long time against price-fixing,
particularly since inflated costs
in recent years have been eating
into profits and holding back
hotel expansion.
Another group the tribunal
feels it can’t trust to play the
game it defines loosely as busi-
nesses sheltered from competi-
tion because lack of space .or
premises stands in the way of
others starting up. City restau-
rants are a case, and it would be
easy to find others when anyone
who wants to put up commercial
premises has to battle against a
host of obstacles. Big payments
are made these days as “key-
money” for shops and offices to
rent, all because progress has
been held up while 1 population
has been growing at a record
rate. If the tribunal’s argument
is sound, there’s a case for fixing
prices wherever obstacles are
found on supply-lines. A further
group of businesses overlapping
with those cramped for space is
ticketed and labelled as concerns
restricted by capital-issues or
credit-controls.
The sensible thing in all cases
like these is to clear away the
obstacles as quickly as possible,
not to place fresh ones in the
way. If business folk trying to
make headway were a set of
crooks the tribunal would be
working on the right lines,
but they’re generally ordinary
law-abiding types out to make
a decent living. If they
tried fleecing the public they
could soon be caught for
profiteering without all the
bother and rigmarole of price-
fixing from one end of the coun-
try to the other. Overriding
powers which the law provides
would take care of the rank-and-
file of New Zealanders. But for
having more money than many
of them seem able to spend
wisely, they wouldn’t need half
so many controls.
At every turn the aim of con-
trols is to hold back excess spend-
ing-power or to suppress its
effects, in defiance of the law of
supply-and-demand, the most
flouted of all laws in N.Z. today.
The broad principles are clear.
What N.Z. needs is a revival of
faith in monetary and fiscal
measures, which are weapons
long relegated to a back place.
If the Prices Tribunal frightens
some folk into behaving them-
selves when they might otherwise
get up to tricks, or scares them so
that they’re afraid to be enter-
prising, it might flatter itself that
it has done N.Z. a real service ;
but this is not the way to pros-
perity and progress. /


A Group of Experts to Manage
1
n
i
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experienpe can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet—' “Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond.
F. B. Fleming.
/. R. Faviell.
G. B. Kater,
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary ; p. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Steward
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
'23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
T ONDON-controlled, this big holding
■ L ' co. has a capital of £11,024,573 to
feed, of which £4,476,626 carries a cumu-
lative 4|- p.c., and assets (consolidated
accounts) totalled £29,945,789 at Decem-
ber 31 last. The operating cos. are an
integrated group of mining, smelting and
other interests in Australia and the U.K.,
whose fortunes are largely those of the
metal markets.
The Australian offshoots are; Zinc
Corp. (lead-zinc mining at the Barrier);
Sulphide Corp. (production of sul-
phuric acid, superphosphate and cement
at Cockle Creek); B.H. Corp. (which
owns a 50 p.c. interest in B.H. Associ-
ated Smelters at Port Pirie, and a 32 p.c.
interest in New B.H. Consolidated at
the Barrier); Consolidated Zinc Pty.
(which owns half a dozen offshoots in-
terested in treatment of beach sands,
electric-power production, sawmilling,
and uranium); and Frome-Broken Hill
Pty., in which Vacuum Oil and D’Arcy
Exploration also hold a one-third interest
(now engaged in the search for oil in
Australia). The interest in uranium is
through Territory Enterprises Pty., which
is responsible to the Commonwealth
Government for the management and
operation of the uranium-mining project
at Rum Jungle (N.T.), where a “consider-
able ore stockpile” has been built up,
and treatment plant is scheduled to
operate before the end of 1954,
The English subsidiary is Imperial
Smelting Corp., operating zinc smelters,
roasters and sulphuric-acid plants at
Avonmouth, Swansea, Seaton Carew and
Newport, and which also owns a string
of subsidiary and associated cos. in the
U.K.
Last year the fall in the London aver-
age spot price per ton of lead (£591.5,
down £559.6) and zinc (£575.1, down
£574,1), and reduced charges for smelt-
ing, etc.,' without any compensating
reduction in operating costs, resulted in
a contraction of £278,128 in combined
net earnings of the group:
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(after eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
r~ —Dividends—— ~
Pref. Ord.* To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 4 J p.c. 12 J p.c. serves. serves.t
’50.. 1.429,680 110,796 434,824 884,060 4,498,630
Intangibles written off, £350,420 ~ 4,148,210
Proceeds sale assets, £135,889 .. 4,284,099
20 p.c.
’51.. 2,404,708 105,760 687,535 1,611,413 5,895.512
Provision written back, £180,334 .. 6,075,846
Surplus on acquisition, £20,705 .. 6,096,551
Tax overprovided, £73,958 ~ 6,170,509
Unexplained addition, £2619 ~ 6,173,128
15 p.c.
’52.. 1,671,150 105,760 532,021 1,033,369 7,206,497
Tax overprovided, £440,977 ~ .. 7,647,474
Profit sale investments, £72,424 ~ 7,719,898
Unexplained addition, £1025 .. 7,720,923
’53.. 1,393,022 110,796 540,206 742,020 8,462,943
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is shown less
English income tax. f Excludes specific provisions,
£1,669,104, 31/12/’53. t Excludes three months’
pre-acquisition profits (£288,547) subsidiaries.
The £1,393,022 of profit, written after
allowing £837,471 (up £67,938) for
depreciation and £1,043,799 (down
£171,935) for taxation, was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 19.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 23.9, 35.1 and 20.1 p.c.
for the three preceding years. It leaves
out of the reckoning items interlined in
the table, as well as a net reduction of
£188,991 in specific provisions for pen-
sions and accrued maintenance, etc. The
nominal rate of dividend, lowered from
20 p.c. for 1951 to 15 p.c. for 1952, was
maintained at the lower rate, which is
equal to 10.3 p.c. in Australian currency
after allowing U.K. income tax of 9s.
in the £ and exchange at the current
rate.
Profits of individual subsidiaries are
not disclosed. Zinc Corp., one of the
major contributors, milled 542,588 tons
(up 93,306 tons) of higher-grade ore for
78,066 tons (up 21,483 tons) recoverable
lead, 1,752,9340 z. (up 423,6410 z.) silver
and 108,426 tons (up 21,073 tons) of
52.7 p.c. zinc concentrates. Blocked ore
reserves at December 31, 1953, were un-
changed at 5,800,000 tons, averaging 14.6
p.c. lead, 2.80 z. silver and 11.3 p.c.
zinc; and a lot more payable stuff is
known to exist outside the measured
limits. The position of New Broken Hill
was reviewed B. 16/6/’54. At Cockle
Creek production of acid and super,
rose substantially, but that of cement fell
slightly. And a better supply of zinc con-
centrates and increased plant-capacity
were followed by record outputs of virgin
zinc and allied products by the various
units of the group in Britain.
Capital expenditure last year amounted
to £1,470,053, of which £883,295 related
to smelter and other plants in the U.K.
The net addition to the book-value of
freeholds and plants was £668,651;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
£stg. ’£stg. ■ £stg.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £4,476,626 £4,476,626 £4,476,626
Ord. ~ 6,547,947 6,547,947 6,547,947
Reserves . . 5,895,512 7,206.497 8,462,943
Specific provi-
sions . . 1,596,602 1,858,095 1,669,104
Outside in-
terests .. 2,360,581 2,085,057 2,098,921
Debentures .. 1,080,000 1,003,077 1,126,154
Sundry credi-
tors, etc. . . 4,429,537 2,454,916 2,359,729
Tax provisions 7,672,040 5,430,011 2,608,761
Final divs. .. 740,415 584,901 595,604
£34,799,260 £31,647,127 £29,945,789
Mine property 4,224,372 4,224,372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant,
etc 7,398,959 8,415,662 9,084,313
Trade invest-
ments .. 3,785,234 3,985,910 3,930,629
Stocks . . .. 5,952,605 7,251,577 6,666,815
Book debts .. 5,309,759 3,432,347 3,550,573
Cash, etc. .. 8,178,331 4,337,259 2,489,087
£34,799,260 £31,647,127 £29,945,789
Capital commitments" outstanding at
December 31 last amounted to
£1,192,000, of which £859,000 was for
new acid and superphosphate works at
Cockle Creek. This work is being
financed by a mortgage loan of
£1,000,000, of which only the first instal-
ment of £200,000 was received in 1953.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£6,016,227) * was
£467,949.
As for the current term, the chairman
says that “if costs remain stable and our
efficiencies continue to improve, a com-
bined lead-zinc price of approximately
£SI7S per ton should prove satisfactory
to both our mines and smelters, and at
the same time encourage increased usage
of our metals.” At July 8 the London
spot prices for lead and zinc stood at
£S96 10s. and £S7B 12s> 6d. per ton
respectively, and at the moment are
not expected to fluctuate very widely
for the remainder of the year.
On the Australian market and at last
term’s rates of distribution the £1 ords.
at 435. 6d. (28s. a year ago) return 4.6
p.c., and the prefs. at 19s. 3d. yield 3.8
p.c., with taxation and exchange as they
are,
»
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
XXOLDERS of the equity scrip in this
well-entrenched organisation have
gathered some nice harvests over the
last decade. Declared profits shot up
from £79,968 in 1943 to £299,245 last
term, an increase of 149 p.c., without
aid from freshly subscribed share-capital.
During the same period the div. climbed
from 13 p.c. to 25 p.c., and was sweet-
ened with £150,000 of bonus-scrip in
June, 1950. And those on the register
at June 8, 1954, got a further £325,000
of gift-scrip, one for two, which came
from a reserve created for the purppse
by writing-up the book-value of land and
buildings by that amount. Furthermore,
the gift was followed immediately by a
cash offer of 1,300,000 new ss. ords. at
par (£325,000), one for three, payable in
full on application August 31 next. Paid
capital will thus become £1,400,000, of
which £lOO,OOO carries a cumulative 8
p.c., but does not enjoy priority as to
capital. On that lot last term’s £299,245
of profit was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 22.4 p.c. on £1,300,000 of ord.
capital, of which bonus-scrip accounts
for 36.5 p.c.
The f.-p. ss. ords., which fetched 325.
cum rights to the bonus-and-cash-issues,
recently sold at 195., at which figure the
return would be 4.3 p.c. on a 16.6 p.c.
div, basis. On the same div. basis the
rights at 12s. 4d. would give a slightly
better return, allowing for the difference
in dividend receipts for the current term.
At 7s. the f.-p. ss. 8 p.c. prefs. yield 5.7
p.c. A buyer of the ords. at 19s. who
looks for 5.3 p.c. on his money counts
on a 20 p.c. distribution, which, together
with the pref. div., would call for £31,245
less profit than was claimed by the parent
last term.
Largest thing of its kind in Australasia,
the co. imports books, periodicals, news-
print and other papers and printers’
requisites, and does a considerable turn-
over in the wholesale newsagency and
advertising business as well.
Last term the retail market for paper
remained sticky, and stocks were written
down by an unstated amount to bring
them into line with current market values.
But turnover in all other lines was buoy-
ant, costs and taxation were much less
troublesome, and a first div. of £40,300
(including £7BOO exchange) was received
from the New Zealand subsidiary. All
told, the cautious board was able to write
net earnings £116,666 stronger at a
record £299,245:
Year { Dividends
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1949 ..162,417 8000 20 100,000 54,417 504,327
Revaluation N.Z. properties, £24,759 529,086
Currency exchange profit, £20,434 .. 549,520
1950 .-.152,449 8000 20 100,000 44,449 593,969
Rev’uation land & buildings, £125,241 719,210
Capitalised, £150,000 .. .. 569,210
1951 ..172,185 8000 20 130,000 34,185 603,395
1952 ..227,795 8000 20 130,000 89,795 693,190
1953 . .182,579 8000 22i 146,250 28,329 721,519
From stock reserve, £275,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 .. 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 .. .. 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £825,000 .. 1,420,782
1954 ..299,245 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
After handing the prefs. their 8 p.c.,
enough remained to show a Juicy 44.8
p.c. on the £650,000 of ord. capital
employed as against 29.3, 35.7, 29.2 and
28.7 p.c. back to 1950. So the lift in
the div. from 22\ p.c. to 25 p.c. was a
comfortable affair.
And the position was even better than
it looked. In Australian currency, com-
bined net earnings of the parent and its
N.Z. and other subsidiaries was £332,590.
Moreover, the board considered the
position good enough to disclose
£318,000 of inner reserves in respect of
stock (£275,000) and book-debts (£43,000)
which had accumulated over the last 20-
odd years; and it seems unlikely that
the cupboards in which these reserves
were kept have been left entirely bare.
Also previous overprovisions for taxation
amounting to £56,263 were written back
to appropriation account. All this was
in addition to the revaluation reserve of
£325,000 already referred to. The visible
lay-by at March 31 last was thus lifted
to £1,549,587.
For the 10 months to January 31,
1954, the New Zealand subsidiary—it
took over the parent’s business in the
Dominion in October, 1950—netted
£51,513, equal to 17.1 p.c. on its £300,000
of share capital, and paid 10 p.c.
(£32,500). Current assets totalled
£611,672 and current liabilities £326,200,
including tax-provision and the div.
Premises and plant, etc., figured at
£143,602. All amounts in N.Z. currency.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
further reflect the disclosure of inner
reserves, as well as continued growth of
the business and improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus:
Mar.,’s2. Mar.,’s3. Mar.,’s4.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. 693,190 721,519 1,459,527
Creditors ~ 791,622 636,616 664,911
Tax reserve .. 460,841 447,836 144,925
Final divs. .. 69,000 85,250 101,600
£2,764,653 £2,641,221 £3,210,863
Freeholds .. 312,675 340,441 658.251
Plant, etc. .. 37,656 46,542 61,429
Shares subsid. 336,785 336,785 336,785
Stock . . . . 825,202 434,345 800,759
Book debts .. 1,131,447 937,979 1,119,374
Cash, etc. .. 120,888 545,129 234,265
£2,764,653 £2,641,221 £3,210.863
The year’s additions of £317,810 to free-
holds. and of £366,414 to stocks, were
due entirely in the first instance, and
substantially in the second bne, to reserve
disclosures. The expansion of £181,395 in
book-debts and reduction of £302,911 in
the tax reserve resulted only partly from
the same cause. Over two-thirds of the
improvement of £495,311 in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,243,062) was also
due to the shaking-out of reserves.
On present indications another satis-
factory year is on the way.
Pierwood Plastics, Ltd. (Sydney)
IIj'ORMED in June, 1948, to take over a
small privately-owned concern,
Pierwood got away to a good
start, stumbled, but quickly regained
its feet. Paid capital has grown
from £75,000 to £487,101—£100,000
of it carries a cumulative 5 p.c.
and was put up by the City Mutual Life—
by cash issues at par and by exchange of
scrip for minority interests and for rights
to an American process for casting
stainless-steel products. And for the 2\
years to December 31, 1951, the ords.
received divs. averaging 11.5 p.c.
Then the co. was caught with large
stocks on u falling market, and a heavy
writing-down of inventory values and
provision of £19,000 for losses on a large
purchase of defective raw materials from
overseas, resulted in a collapse of profits,
and the ords. were passed by in 1952.
Though the setback was temporary, the
co. hasn’t had an opportunity to accumu-
late much in the way of reserves to
support and assist share capital; so earn-
ings and distributions are likely to remain
sensitive to changes in the economic
climate and trade conditions for some
time.
Turnover, which improved slightly in
1952, shot up by 46 p.c, last year, and,
with the worst of the troubles out of the
way, net earnings responded. After allow-
ing £46,754 (up £12,510) for depreciation,
£28,425 (up £20,958) for taxation and
£9397 for additional loss on defective
raw materials, the profit was £50,935 (up
£36,593):
Pierwood Plastics and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
Share premium, £20,000 .. .. 20,000
1950.. 50,377 —12 i 15,625 34,725 54,407-
Capital profit, £1741 56,148
Written off goodwill, £3311 .. .. 52,837
Dec.,
1950*. .36,841 1250 6J p.c.= 12,562 23,029. 75,866
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 85,866
Intangibles written off, £6653 .. .. 79,213
Taxes previous years, £779 .. .. 78,434
1951 ..55.590 5000 10 p.c.= 28,190 22,400 100,834
Intangibles written off, £10,360 .. 90,474
1952 ..14,342 5000 Nil 9,342 99,816
Intangibles written off, £5OOO .. 94,816
1953 ..50,935 5000 10 p.c.= 37,810 8,125 102,941
* Six months. f Subject to intangibles,
£45,966 at 31/12/’53.
The £50,935 covered the pref. div. and
11.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 2.4 p.c.
and 17,9 p.c. for the two preceding years,
and a generous 10 p.c. div. was paid.
It was an encouraging performance
considering £lOO,OOO was represented by


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ne ye, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trada Marks. —Advt.
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide fpr widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervi|ion. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. 8U3446, BU 1409.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX^
O'SUIXTVAX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers ,
■KAO OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
(“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
_ Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
he has a
RUPTURE
S 8
asr
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NBO-
BARRE BE
No Pads—
No Springs
' The NEO-BARREKB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
Vo., _ V pon orifice.
at once * wl thout effort and
“elements, control your hernia
h P t riiiT °5 t u and eecuri ty. It cannot
hL aCe^ d by violent movement and
all completely successful by
wLr h ? i iave tried it.
jmte j oda2/ /or FREE LITERATURE
distribution co.
, Pt- 3s). 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Public Notice
I, KATERINA PAPAYASILIOU, of Greek
Nationality, bom at Castelorizon, Greece,
resident for 37 years in Australia, now
residing at 651 Botany Road, Rosebery,
intend to apply for Naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
PROGRESS
AND
AUSTRALIAN
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
' Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROWS SECURITY
jFciilh lit ihc
Uuiwrc
North Queensland in the winter is particularly
delightful. The sun is at its best, and all in life is
beautiful.
It seeemed more so than ever to me when we went
there on business recently with a friend from Illinois.
There was sweetness abroad in the sugar belt from
Mossman to Mackay; bursting corn crops on the
Atherton Tableland; grandeur in the ranges, and
charm chained for hundreds of miles in the islands
of the Reef.
Here one saw Australia’s expansion in perspective.
North of that again, above the continent, lay
Papua and New Guinea, the real potential of which
is only now unfolding. It is for us to develop and
defend.
Out to the west, on past the sheeplands and the
mineral field of world proportions that is centred on
Mount Isa, was the Northern Territory, rising and
certain to rise still further in the production of beef.
In my mind was our own property at Alice Springs.
In the north there is work to be done —work
romantic and rewarding. There’s pioneering to be
done. But we’re sprung from pioneers.
#
As an authority on what has gone to make up
the Australian character in the last half century, few
were better equipped from experience to speak than
the late William Morris Hughes.
In “Crusts and Crusades,” written in the late
years of his life—and itself, in title, a witty allusion
to his own rise from pantryman to Prime Minister —
he rated courage, tenacity of purpose and vision, as
the qualities that go best to produce the ideal man.
And he went on to say that “the initiative and
resource with which the pioneers of this country
were so richly endowed” made the typical Australian
what he is.
The spirit of the pioneers lives on. With that
initiative, backed by the use of modern machines for
development, Australia’s future is as plastic in our
hands as the clay which the potters use.
We saw it so plainly, from the range top above
Cairns in the clear Northern sunshine.
~~/V.
shares in a new associate, M.I.
Products (Aust.) Pty., which has
not yet paid a div. Pierwood and
Moldex, Ltd., each own a half-
interest in the associate, which
took over Moldex’s injection-
moulding department in Mel-
bourne, and “operated profit-
ably” for its first six months to
December 31, 1953. Pierwood’s
interest was financed as to
£50,000 by the issue of 5 p.c.
unsecured convertible notes to
Moldex and file balance from
working capital.
The year’s expanding activi-
ties further show up in balance-
sheet movements;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 387,101 387,101
Reserves .. .. 99,815 102,940
Outside interests ..
Mortgage .. .. ' 35,000 32,500
Unsecured notes .. 50,000
Overdraft . . .. 212,227 233,391
Creditors, etc.* .. 150,126 324,824
Final divs. .. .. 19,355
£984,269 £1,250,111
Freeholds .. .. 146,704 149,006
Plant, etc 182,943 195,020
Shares other cos. .. 73,327 179,319
Stocks .. .. 375,989 380.298
Debtors, etc. .. 164,449 298,966
Cash 1,306 1,536
Intangibles * .. 39,551 45,966
£984,269 £1,250,111
* Includes provision for taxation.
Despite the growth of £134,517
in book-debts, stocks (in at the
lower of cost or market-price)
increased by only £4309. To
meet the outlay, plus additions of
£105,992 to shareholdings and
£14,379 to premises and plant,
the amount coming to sundry
creditors, was increased by
£174,698, the overdraft by
£21,164 and £50,000 was raised
by the issue of notes, as already
explained. When the books
closed there was 225. 4d. of out-
side money in the business for
every pound belonging to share-
holders. No hint is given as to
whether the ords, are likely to be
asked for more at an early date.
The co.’s own factory at
Chatswood, near Sydney, is
claimed to house one of the
largest injection-moulding plants
in the Southern Hemisphere, as
well as equipment for a tool-
making offshoot. A year ago the
chairman said about 70 p.c. of
the products, especially large
mouldings, could not be im-
ported at competitive prices, and
that toys, etc., account for only
some 30 p.c. of output.
The plastics industry is still in
its adolescence in Australia,
where the field is steadily ex-
panding, especially in the elec-
tronic and refrigeration indus-
tries, and older industries are
constantly finding new applica-
tions for plastic products, par-
ticularly where strength, weather-
resistance, lightness and ease in
shaping are concerned.
At ss. 9d. (same as a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords., covered by net
tangibles with a book-value of
ss. 9d., return 8.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. are
not listed on ’Change.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
FOLLOWING the announce-
ment of a one-for-four bonus-
scrip issue by this old-established
Sydney timber-merchant on a
date yet to be announced, the
market has lifted its bid for the
Bs. shares from 11s. to 13s. 3d.
The gift, which is to be financed
by a revaluation of freehold
property, will reduce the cost per
share to a buyer at 13s. 3d. to
10s. 9d., at which figure the yield
on a 10 p.c. div. basis is 7.4 p.c.
Paid capital will become
£147,349, and a steady 10 p.c. div.
would call for £14,735 —£16,586
less than the latest term’s profit,
or £6498 less than the average
profit for the last five years.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. was formed
in 1906, and fared reasonably
well until 1924. Paid capital had
grown to £294,000-odd, including
£52,000 of bonus scrip. Then
slump hit the timber trade, and
in the next decade net trading
and capital losses totalled
£253,792, £154,615 (10s. 6d.
a share) was written off capital,
and £22,102 (Is. 6d. a share) was
returned to shareholders in cash.
After 1934 conditions improved
slowly, and in 1944 the div. was
jacked up to 9.4 p.c., at which
level it remained till 1950, when
it rose to 10 p.c.
The post-war years to 1951
were a lush period for the trade,
though labor shortages, shipping
difficulties and buoyant costs
were troublesome features. To-
wards the end of 1951 a sudden
speeding-up of overseas deliveries
left merchants with heavy stocks,
sales fell away following the con-
traction of credit and consequent
easing of activity in the building
trade, and there was a certain
amount of price-cutting. But in
1952-53 McKenzie’s managed to
clear excess stocks and show
only £4721 less profit than in the
previous period—a creditable
achievement:
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. t — serves, serves.
1950. ,18,272 10 p.c.=11,788 6,484 16,532
Profit sale assets, £385 ..16,917
1951.. 19,616 10 p.c.=11,788 7,828 24,745
1952.. 20.839.10 „ 11,788 9,051 33,796
Profit sale assets. £6Bl .. 84,477
Tax overprovided, £6OOO ..40,477
1953.. 16,118 10 p.c.=11,788 4,830 44,807
To staff fund, £4OOO ..40,807
Profit sale assets, £1492 . . 42,299
1954. .31,321 10 p.c.=11,788 19,533 61,832
To staff fund, £2OOO ..59,882
Last term turnover increased
“appreciably,” thanks to a revival
in building activity and better
conditions generally, and gross
profit jumped by £43,477;
1946. 1953. 1954.
Gross profit .. £49,143 £91,590 £135,067
Exes.* . . 38,019 75,472 108,746
Net profit .. £11,124 £16,118 £81,821
* Including depreciation and taxation.
Exes., including £6785 (up £539)
for depreciation and something
for taxation, swallowed £28,274
of the improvement, leaving net
profit £15,203 higher at £31,321.
That equalled 26.6 p.c. on paid
capital, as against 13.7 and
17.7 p.c. in the two preceding
terms.
The financial set-up is sound
and well-balanced:
1952. 1953. 1954.
capital. £117,879 £117,879 £117,879
Reserves .. 33,796 40,807 59,832
Overdraft . . 113,443 9,434
Creditors* . . 147,322 92,179 95,022
Staff fund . . 4,000 6,000
Final div. .. 11,788 11,788 11,788
£424,228 £266,653 £299,955
Freeholds ~ 24,896 24,739 24,272
Plant, etc. .. 41,229 38,946 39,899
Stock .. 286,364 117,705 158,879
Debtors .. 61,082 55,057 67,513
Cash, etc. .. 10.657 30,206 9,392
£424,228 £266,653 £299,955
* Includes tax-provision.
To finance an increase of
£41,174 in stocks and to carry
£12,456 more book-debts, the co.
used surplus profits, drew on
cash-balances, etc., for £20,814
and went to its bankers for £9434.
Including the new issue, each Bs.
share will be backed by net
tangibles with a book-value of
approximately 12s. lOd.
About the future, the chair-
man has this to say;
Since the close of the financial year,
turnover has been well maintained and
prospects for the current year appear
favorable. It appears possible that
Governmental policy, both Federal
and State, in the immediate future will
be to assist the building' industry
generally. The Prime Minister’s recent
promise of further tax-remissions is
also encouraging. However, supplies
of some timbers are still restricted by
the continuance of import-controls.
It all looks encouraging for
maintenance of a 10 p.c. div, on
the increased capital, for the
current term, at any rate.
Australasian Oil Exploration,
Ltd., formed in Perth about four
months ago to take over oil-
prospecting permits held by the
Cable Oil Syndicate (W.A.), and
which recently let a contract to
Petroleum Drilling Corp,, Ltd ,
to test-drill Reid’s Dome, south
of Rolleston (Q.), has now joined
in the hunt for uranium on the
Mt. Isa field further north.
A radiation survey of the
co.’s Counter lease, about
17 miles north of Mt. Isa,
has disclosed an ore-body in
highly altered sedimentary rocks
which outcrops for a length of
120 ft. and is up to 57ft. wide.
Small samples from the widest
part of file outcrop assayed
0.8 p.c. uranium-oxide, which is
equivalent to approximately
2oz. gold per ton at current prices
of the two metals. , A 50-ton
bulk sample is now being got
ready for treatment. Much will
depend upon the result of this
and other tests, including drilling
and shaft-sinking, etc., to prove
the uranium-value of the ore as
the lode goes down. The quantity
of ore available beneath the out-
crop is estimated at 2300 tons
for every 10ft. of ore depth
Over the last fortnight the price
of the co.’s scrip advanced from
7s. to 9s. Bd. in the market.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Nbrthcott wedding seems to have
obscured other social events last week,
bringing back echoes of the Queen’s visit
with its cheering banks of spectators and
traffic deflected from Macquarie-street.
There was consternation the day be-
fore, when the bride was unable to attend
the planting of her “Wedding Tree” in
Hyde Park because of a heavy cold, and
it was rumored that the wedding might
have to be held at Government House.
But the ’groom, Squadron-Leader Russell
Nash, saying that the crowd would have
to put up with “second-best” on this
occasion, made a very efficient job of
planting the Queensland firewheel-tree in
the park, and the bride’s cold was held
at bay so that she looked really lovely
on “the day.”
She had an afternoon of soft sunshine
for her marriage, although there had
been showers and bleak skies for many
of the spectators who had begun to arrive
at St. Stephen’s Church, in Macquarie-
street, as early as ten o’clock in the morn-
ing. When the bride arrived at 2.30 p.m.
there were between four and five thousand
people waiting to cheer her as she entered
the church.
The bride was an exquisite figure as she
walked, on her father’s arm, under the
striped awning and up the red carpet to
the church porch. Her dress, cut with
classic simplicity, was of delicate pink
brocade threaded with pale gold, her
veil a shower of pink tulle held with a
diamond-and-pearl tiara, and she carried
a bouquet of white hyaciAths and lily-of-
the-valley. Her attendants were her sister
Mrs. Donald Coburn and her two small
nieces Margaret and Christine Coburn.
All wore dresses of mulberry velvet,
Mrs. Coburn’s accented by a close-fitting
hat of strawberry-ice petals, gloves in
the same color and a bouquet of daphne
and orchids. The little girls also carried
daphne and wore circlets of it on their
hair. Their socks and the collars of their
short dresses were in the strawberry-ice
shade.
Pink and white gladioli decorated the
church in wide, fan-shaped arrangements
and at the end of each pew ribbon-bows
of white'satin were caught with two pink
double-camellias. A choir of V.A.s led
the singing during the service, which
included the bride’s favorite psalm, “I
to the hills will lift mine eyes,” and
V.A.s also formed a guard-of-honor for
the bride and her father.
At Government House over 400 guests
were received by his Excellency the
Governor, the bride and ’groom, and
the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs. Henry
Gagg, of Perth (W.A.). In the first
reception-room the bride’s table was set
in ‘the bay-window overlooking the gar-
den. Round in shape, like her pink-iced
three-tier wedding-cake, it was covered
with pink hailspot-muslin with a tiny
train of ivy round its edge and a circle of
camellias around the cake. In the second
reception-room the long serving-table was
covered with a white cloth garlanded by
a thick rope of dark-green leaves and
white camellias. The wedding-presents
set out in the long dining-room included
many pieces of cedar furniture, a mag-
nificent canteen of cutlery from the State
Government, several teasets (one in
Crown fierby, another in Beleek, another
in Shelley china), silver trays, candelabra,
and many beautiful antiques and repro-
ductions.
Among the guests at the wedding were
the Governor-General, Sir William Slim,
and Lady Slim, the Governor of Victoria,
Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks and
the Hon. the Lady Gairdner, wife of the
Governor of Western Australia, the Chief
Justice of N.S.W., the Hon, K. W. Street
(who proposed the toast of the bride and
’groom in one of the wittiest speeches df
the season), and leading representatives
of the State and local Governments.
The bride’s going-away dress of pale-
blue was trimmed with a navy velvet
bow and worn with a small hat of pale-
blue feathers and navy accessories. She
and her new husband were carried to
their car by the best man, Mr. Ben
Arnott, the ushers Mr. Jock Pagan, Mr.
Donald Cobum, Mr. Alexis Albert, Dr.
Henry Sharpe, Mr. John Darling, Mr.
B. J. Wright and Mr, P. Raine.
Chatter after the wedding was on how
the splendor of the cars and the men’s
dress quite outshone the women’s clothes
(except the bridal party) , . . how young
Margaret Coburn replied when asked
whether she had been tired in the church,
“We didn’t get tired, but Mummy got
tired watching us” . . . how it was a
“velvet wedding,” chosen because the
bride didn’t want her bridesmaids to feel
cold, and how many guests chose the same
material , . . how embarrassing it was
for the chauffeur and how amusing for
the crowd when the horn of one of the
limousines stuck just as it pulled up out-
side the church . . . how guests at this
wedding, as at every wedding, couldn’t
resist hovering near their own gifts . . .
how the church was exactly full . . . how
it was the bride’s dressmaker who
arranged her dre§s in the porch . . . how
the round, pink wedding-cake will prob-
ably set a fashion . . . how the Rev.
Gordon Powell addressed the bride as
“Beth” during the service . . . how lonely
the Governor must have felt as the bride
drove away from Government House
with her husband.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Independent’s new play, opening
tomorrow, is about Antarctica (very
appropriate this weather) and is by James
Workman, who is the author of the
popular radio-play series “Thirty Minutes
to Go.” Mr. Workman is an English-
man writing in Australia, and is thereby
claimed by us as an Australian author,
though it is notable that when any of
our native-born writers go abroad we
strenuously cling to them as Australians
no matter how long they’ve been away.
Thus we manage to have it coming and
going, and that’s very nice, too.
Judith Hemsworth recently celebrated
her coming-of-age with a party at
Prince’s given for her by her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Hemsworth, of
Epping. Judith chose for the occasion
a dress of primrose satin brocade. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
The buffet-dinner which Tennyson Tex-
tiles gave during the week to launch their
austerely named “Disciplined” fabrics
was like Old Home Week for the retail,
wholesale and manufacturing members
of the clothing trade. Everyone was
there (so to speak), and there was
not one guest sho couldn’t tell a tuck
from a dart at 50yds. The fabrics
themselves seem the answer to the prob-
lems of packing, travelling, taking the
children out for the day and going home
at peak-hour in a Bondi tram, for, mainly
cotton or cotton-and-nylon, they resist
creases, wash and dry in a trice, look
elegant enough for gala dates and simple
enough for the office or shopping.
* ☆ *
Dental undergraduates dressed as
geisha girls put on a very amusing floor-
show at the Dental Ball held at the Troc.
last Thursday. First they did what they
alleged to be traditional Japanese dances,
then followed these up with the can-can
(which was supposed to be the result of
the Occupation). The decor of the ball
was Japanese in link-up with this “act”
and included cherry blossom, Japanese
scenes 14ft. high and a Japanese frieze
40ft, long. The president of the
Dental Undergraduates, Don Hutchison,
received the guests with Trixie McGirr,
a recent graduate who is president of the
ladies’ committee. Guests-of-honor were
Professor ahd Mrs. A. J. Arnott, and in
the official party were Brigadier and
Mrs, H. Finney, Mr, and Mrs. W. H.
Maze, Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Lindley, Dr.
and Mrs. D. W. H. Arnott, Dr. and
Mrs. J. H. Wilson, Captain and Mrs.
Richards.
MCLIDCUKNE
With deep affection this city mourns
the passing of Mrs. Essington Lewis and
remembers the wonderful contributions
she made to its life. Gracious, sym-
pathetic and lovable, she gave her services
without stint to many good causes.
Although in great pain, she was present
recently when members of Y.W.C.A. (an
organisation to which she gave a great
deal of her time and energy) paid tribute
to her many endearing qualities and Lady
Brooks opened the addition to the build-
ing which will perpetuate her name.
Marie Bremner, star of many musical
comedies and Gilsullivan operas, is the
wife of Ewart Chappie, Victorian man-
ager of the A.B.C. Since leaving Mel-
bourne some years ago, Marie has lived
with her husband in Sydney and Brisbane,
and in Perth, where she helped train
young amateurs in productions in which
she made her name. Photo. by Charles
Thompson (Perth).
Bowls of stock, narcissi and pale-gold
daisies were set in the reception-rooms
of the Toorak home of Air-Vice-Marshal
J. E. Hewitt and Mrs. Hewitt when they
entertained 100 guests at a cocktail-party
held in honor of the U.K, High Com-
missioner, Sir Stephen Holmes, and Lady
Holmes, who were returning to Canberra
after spending twO months in Melbourne.
Mrs. Hewitt, who was assisted by her
three daughters, Barbara, Jennifer and
Gillian, was attractive in a cocktail-frock
of pale-silver-grey brocade woven with a
tiny floral-design. At the party were
Lieut.-General Sir Sydney Rowell and
Lady Rowell, Sir John and Lady Latham,
the Lady Mayoress (Mrs. R. H. Solly)
and her daughter Noelle, the Bishop of
Geelong, Rt. Rev. J. D. McKie, and his
wife, Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, Mrs. John Casson,
Sir Lawrence Wackett and Lady Wackett,
Air-Vice-Marshal V. Hancock and Mrs.
Hancock, Major-General A. C, Shortt
(U.K, Liaison Staff) and Mrs. Shortt,
U.S. Millitary Attache Col. John Middle-
ton and Mrs. Middleton, Sir Norman and
Lady Mighell and Air-Vice-Marshal W.
Hely and Mrs. Hely.
☆ ☆ *
Guests at the party given by the Vic-
torian Jewish Board of Deputies at the
Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs. Fink in
honor of violinist Isaac Stern and his
accompanist Alexander Zakin were wel-
comed by Mr. Ashkanasy, president of
the Board of Deputies, with Mr. and
Mrs. Fink, the latter wearing a cream
satin-striped faille frock and a fitting
jacket of black faille. Mrs. Stern’s choice
was a full-skirted black velvet frock
which had short puff sleeves.
U.S. Consul Givon Parsons was accom-
panied by his wife, whose dinner-gown
of black faille was dotted with diamente ;
Mrs. Arnold Isaacson chose a short dove-
grey brocade frock with a large bustle-
bow ; Nona Teller wore a full scarlet
linen skirt with an off-shoulder black
velvet bodice; Esther Boorstein chose a
black velvet frock with a deep neckline;
and with her amber faille skirt, which
featured a lacey-patterned stripe, Mrs.
M. Bardas wore a long-sleeved blouse of
black French silk-jersey.
☆ * ☆
Naturally the nautical motif loomed
large in the decorative scheme for the
Navy League Ball at the Royaler naval
pennants and flags, ship’s-wheels and
-lanterns, port and starboard lights, royal-
blue anchors and silver rope. And, of
course, heaps of flowers and foliage.
Guest-of-honor was Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins, whose wife wore a bustled
gown of azure-blue faille with the bodice
embroidered with sequins and pearls.
Commander and Mrs. R. A. Nettlefold
and president of the ball committee Mrs.
Arthur Laver received the official guests.
Mrs. Nettlefold’s bouffant gown of deep-
green nylon-tulle had gold, green and
purple sequins as embroideries. Mrs.
Laver’s gown of white taffeta featured
wide silver stripes, and the sheath-skirt
had two floating-panels. Mrs. Ken Guest,
who headed the decorations committee,
wore black Chantilly lace with inset-
godets of black sequins.
* ☆ *
Guests at the Black and White dinner-
dance held at the Dorchester wore black,
white ot pastel-toned gowns, and the
decorations also carried out the black-
and-white motif. A tiny white picket
fenee, on which were white jonquils,
narcissus, daisies and stock enclosed the
orchestra-stand ; there were white urns
filled with black and white balloons,
black and white draperies were hung on
the walls and on every table were black-
and-white painted pumpkins, filled either
with black-and-white ivy leaves or white
stocks. The dinner-dance was arranged
by the Your Opportunity committee for
the Thornbury Kindergarten. Committee-
president Mrs. Tom Carlyon chose a gown
of white satin the full skirt of which
was embroidered in jewelled flowers.
Mrs. Graham Nathan, a committee-
member, wore a gown of black chiffon,
Mrs. W. McGowan’s ice-blue satins was
embroidered and finished with a floating
back-panel.
White net veiled with black Chantilly
lace fashioned the short, bouffant frock
worn by Mrs. Walter Ebstein. Mrs. Leo
Curtis’s sheath-gown had a tulip skirt
of beaten-silver. Mrs. lan Miller wore
black velvet.
Two hands, gloved in black silk and
finished with wide ruffles of chiffon
sprinkled with diamente, formed the
unusual mask Mrs. A. G. Silk wore with
her black gown. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s
black-velvet mask was outlined in bril-
liants and centred with a brilliant straw-
berry and had white ospreys at each side.
Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn’s mask of green-
velvet finished with tall spikes of ivy-
leaves was worn with a white-and-green-
patterned organza frock. Mrs. Iris Clarke,
public-relations and funds organiser,
wore a short white lace gown with the
pattern outlined in sequins.
☆ * *■
In the Lady Mayoress’s reception-room
at the Town Hall, gay with bowls of
many-colored blooms, city councillors
and their wives attended a late-afternoon
party to farewell retiring Town Clerk
Harold Wootton and Mrs. Wootton. At
the party were the Town Clerk-designate,
Mr. E. Kitson, and his wife. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. R. H. Solly) wore a
navy coat and frock topped with a
swathed pillbox-hat in haze-blue velour.
Mrs. Wootton’s frock was black, her
jacket dyed-ermine and her platter-hat
of white melusine.
Among the guests were Mrs, F. S.
Selleck, whose anthracite-grey silk-shan-
tung frock featured a fully-pleated
skirt; her lighter-grey velour hat was
edged with moonlight sequins. Lady
Allison chose a grey suit and small white
folded beret, Mrs. John Inkster’s black
Persian-lamb coat was worn with a white
melusine cloche. With her dyed-ermine
coat Mrs. James Ferguson wore a beret
of tangerine hatter’s-plush,
☆ ☆ ☆
Marilyn Busietta, who for 10 years was
a student at a school pf the Sacred Heart
Order in Malta, was among, the 12
debutantes at the Sacre Coeur Association
annual ball at the Palais de Danse. They
wore individual white frocks and carried
early-Victorian posies tied in the school
colors of red, white and gold. Mixed
red flowers were on the official table,
and on the debs.’ table were white
organdie bows and white and pink
camellias. The debunantes made their
bow to Mrs. R. F. Guthrie, president of
the association, whose gown was of
mist-grey lace over taffeta. In the official
party were Miss Sophie Stewart and Mr.
Ellis Irving (they came on after appear-
ing in “Dear Charles”), Mr. and Mrs.
L, R. Buxton (her strapless gown of
copper brocade was trimmed with bands
of mink on bodice and skirt), Mrs. H.
Van Assche, and representatives of other
associations.


Missing Friend
known JOHN WHITFORD also
and OOm 1( 4 0 ?»9 N JOHN PICKERING
of Mildnfp o ? f OHN HAVELOCK formerly
take notice^ 0 ' parts unknown -
tutod Hd-, that your wife has insti-
the gTOund Ce nf Pl !? Ceedi - ngS against you on
and Ullm l of de sertion for three years
an anupiril 8 aad Hiat ur d ess you enter
tary’s nm,. ailC f + i n the He'puty Prothono-
to?fa in mid f the Su P reme Court of Vic-
first day If ? on “ r before the Thirty-
answer iri °!i, A ' u k r, . ls t 1954 and file an
the Elevent/* Said office on or before
case mav r>l da l - of Se Ptomber 1954 the
may be ord ° C ?i ln your absence and you
& MOJ OMBY W cos^s - —MOLOMBY
UIVIJiY * Solicitors for the Petitioner,
inis
uou
Taskforce
at land
on(|o
LOOK AT THESE LOW PRICES:
BASIC TRACTOR: Kerosene-operated with electric
lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar, inde-
pendent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat, chaff
screen and canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs—£799.
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE EQUIP-
MENT: 6.00 x 19, front; 11 x 36, rear; pressed steel
centres—£Bo
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; pressed steel centres
—£lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; heavy duty centres
(front centres 146 lbs. each, rear centres 630 lbs.
each) —£264 additional.
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT: 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and PTO, £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels are available,
NOTE: Tractor has now been increased a full 10% in
brake and drawbar h.p., and new modified front and
steering make it more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O, controls now engage independently—
operate separately or together!
PRODUCE FOB
PROSPERITY
I BMC
ii
Complete this coupon—or call or phone—and your nearest
Nuffield Dealer will arrange a special demonstration on your
property.
COUPON
Fill in this coupon. Address an envelope to the Nuffield Dealer in your
town or to your Distributor (listed below).
PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS
NAME-
ADDRESS..
ACREAGE-
MAIN CROP-
OTHER USES FOR TRACTOR-
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia; PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NT.25.32
NUFFIELD
(AUSTRALIA)""PTY. LTD- A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Isaac Stern
Seldom has an audience at
Melbourne Town Hall heard
violin-playing like Isaac Stern s
possibly not since Kreisler. It
sat up and took careful notice
when he started off with a suite
by Rameau, followed by a
Brahms sonata and a Bach
Chaconne, but when he surged
into the strange, alluring, exotic-
sounding Sonata in F Minor of
Prokofieff, the extraordinary
relaxation of the rather stout
young man standing on the
platform had the whole house
captured.
There are wheels within
wheels in the Russian’s com-
position and much discursive
wanderings outside them, but
there was a thread of feeling
running through the playing
which made the opus seem like
something unified and extremely
simple.
Stern is a superb technician
who can make his instrument
cry, as it did in Bloch’s Nigun
from the “Baal Shem” suite,
or sing as in Paganini’s “La
Campanelta.” Unaccompanied
in the Bach Chaconne, his
fiddle acquired a glorious tone.
The accompanist, Alexander
Zakin, another emigre from
Russia, belongs in the same
class as the violinist. There was
such a perfect blend between
violin and piano at the first
concert that, if one shut one’s
eyes, it was difficult to believe
that there were two executants
in operation.
❖ ❖
Enrique Jorda
Enrique Jorda showed in the
first concerts of his three weeks’
Brisbane season that the chief
characteristic of his conducting
is a seductive orchestral tone,
agreeable enough to make the
deadest of orchestral warhorses
palatable. So a programme
which brought together done-to-
death works like Tschaikowsky’s
Fifth Symphony and Rach-
maninoff’s Second Piano
Concerto became something
more than just another attempt
to fill a concert-hall. It was
musically alive throughout.
Jorda made the most of the
attractively scored melodies of
the symphony, not taking tdo
seriously the traditional gloom
of the work. The mysterious
and brooding air of most per-
formances gave way to some-
thing sunnier under his shaping
hands. He drew together the
threads of this loosely woven
symphony to give it a unity
spoiled only by a small incident
m the finale. Flamboyant
gestures drew from the players
a series of shattering fortissimos
that deluded the audience at one
concert into applauding at the
af 6 c^max i ust before the coda.
Alter this the coda itself became
an anticlimax.
Jan Smetelin joined with the
orchestra in Rachmaninoff’s
concerto. True he did not build
np a pounding flood of piano
tone m the opening bars. And
is playing all through was too
gentle for a work with moods
ranging from a vague Slavic
yearning to the excitement of a
passing military parade. But he
played with a subtlety and
beauty of tone which combined
with the smooth orchestral tone
of Jorda to give the concerto an
attractiveness missing in craggier
performances.
A short ballet-suite by Gretry
was, like the rest of the pro-
gramme, mentally undemanding,
but, in Jorda’s hands, charmingly
well-played and a reminder that
there is a wealth of tuneful music
still to be salvaged from the
lesser French composers of the
18th century.
D. J. M.
Suzanne Danco
At her Sydney recital on
Saturday night the Belgian'
soprano divided the bulk of her
programme between German
and French songs.
Hers is a most delicate art.
The bravura, the spectacular
effect for its own sake, find no
place in her vocal scheme of
things. Her gamut is no more
than average, but within it she
moves with perfect serenity, and
her effortlessly produced voice
has the same beauty of timbre
whether culled from the chest or
from high in the head.
She began with “Hurry, Lord,
To Save Me” by the 17th-century
composer Heinrich Schuetz —a
flowing legato suffused with re-
poseful rather than fervent devo-
tion. There followed three
Ariettes of Bellini. The composer
of the opera “Norma” is rarely
represented on the concert-plat-
form, but this trio of delightful
songs gave proof that he has
been too long neglected.
The song-cycle “Leiderkreis,”
fruit of that fantastic song-year
which followed Schumann’s
marriage, was an artistic
triumph. Over a wide range of
mood the singer’s voice played
with perfect conviction, and no
greater delicacy could have been
imagined than that with which
she invested the two splendid
night-pieces “Mondnacht” and
“Fruehlingsnacht.”
In these interpretations Ray-
mond Lambert lifted the accom-
paniments to the stature taken
by the piano in a violin sonata.
That is as it should be in any
Schumann song-cycle, for at
times the piano is given equal
status with the voice.
Three Ballades of Francois
Villon by Debussy were set low
in the mezzo range almost
throughout, but the singer wasn’t
in the slightest incommoded in
keeping her voice below the
Plimsoll-line for page after page.
+*♦
“The Barber of Seville”
The National Opera’s treat-
ment of “The Barber” in its
Sydney production accorded
nicely with the spirit of gaiety
and mischief inherent in both
the Beaumarchais story and the
score.
Any presentation depends
largely on the second act, where
the Count, as the bogus music-
master, woos Rosina while pre-
tending to give her a lesson in
the presence of her suspicious
and jealous guardian, Dr. Bar-
tolo. And, of course, the second
act also includes the famous
Shaving Scene.,
Fortunately the company pos-
sesses some good singers who
are also good character-actors:
Frank Lisle, whose doddering
Dr, Bartolo was a mixture of
complacency and venom; Alan
Light, who, as Basilio the music-
master, sang powerfully and ex-
tracted the maximum fun from
the pretended-illness incident;
Geoffrey Chard, whose Barber
was always vital and full of
bonhomie, and whose rendition
of that joy and despair of bari-
tones, the “Largo al Factotum,”
was strong and resonant. These,
with Robert O’Donnell as the
Count, made a solid quartet who
saw to it that the humor never
went off the bubble.
Betty Prentice was the Rosina
of the piece: demure, flirtatious
and in particularly good voice-
in the big “Una Voce” aria and
in her concerted work she used
her highly flexible coloratura
with sound judgment. /
(£♦ >Js
“Amphitryon 38”
“Amphitryon 38” is a good
one from the Kuringai (Sydney)
Theatre Guild. Both as producer,
and in role of Jupiter, Roger Cox
nurses the subtlety of this Gallic
cocktail (refined coarseness is the
paradoxical speciality of the
French), and his work, with that
of Jon Richards as Mercury, and
May Walker as Alkmena, amply
balances some weakness in the
rest of the cast.
Jupiter finds the job of lying
about on clouds a tedious one
and seduces the mortal Alkmena
by assuming the guise of her
husband, Amphitryon—this
simple method apparently being
standard Olympic procedure.
Jupiter, however, feels it lacks
spice and wants to be loved for
himself, but when he reveals
himself Alkmena is unim-
pressed ; her mortal husband is
good enough for her,
Giraudoux senses the cosmic
warmth of domesticity. Women
have always put war in its place
with their knitting - needles —
“You can’t go to battle with a
hole in your stocking. What will
the enemy think?”
G. P.
“The Cingalee”
“The Cingalee,” current offer-
ing of the Chatswood (Sydney)
Musical Society, is from the
“Maid of the Mountains” cycle
and, despite its tropic setting,
the present commentator was
mildly afeared that a Merry
Widow attended by a Quaker
Girl and a Miss Gibbs would
join the proceedings at any
moment.
Still, the society has done its
utmost to enliven the flaccid
contours of the old piece, and
Noel Gwyer, Johnny McCallum
and Pat Neville are good, while
Alan Carey’s aptitude for the
genre takes him to Brisbane
Royal.
The chorus looks and sounds
agreeable, though a more
uniform shade of cocoa would
erase a slur on Cingalese mother-
hood.
Talkies
“The Emperor’s Baker”
Humor is the lifeblood of the
Czech film “The Emperor’s
Baker,” sighted at the Union
Theatre at Sydney University.
The story is slight; an old king
keeps a staff of “scientists”
searching for an Elixir of Youth;
he is hard up, and “if only we
knew which of our 13 Mona
Lisa’s is genuine, we could sell
one of the fakes.”
The color bears the same
relation to technicolor as a Rem-
brandt to a railway poster.
The present critic, speaking
only Urdu and Swahili, had to
rely on the sub-titles, and felt
that it would be an interesting
experiment to see these on the
upper part of the screen, near the
actors’ heads instead of their
feet.


From Kano
by Jack Lusby
THE strip ran, kunai-green,
between the swelling
sphinx-paws of the moun-
tain ; and the plane rested
on it in the early morning
shadow, cheeky, like a silver bee.
A malicious bee, it seemed to
Kano.
He stood on a reef-sharp
ridge, frowning down in quick
irritation. A thin cloud-tide was
draining from the slopes below,
and foamy fragments clung
white to the blue-shadowed
breast of the mountain, hesitant
to drift disintegrating in the
sun. Kano could see patches of
the ground beneath, the gnat-
shape of the plane and white
speck of the pilot moving near it.
Momentarily the sight spoiled
the beauty of the morning. A
nagging reminder of one pro-
blem and no solution to another.
Payback problems.
A simple soul, Kano, whose
twenty-three years had been as
unruffled by anxiety as the flat-
curved kina shell gleaming on
his chest. A happy, primitive
stone-age character. And now
—two boasts born months and
miles apart were winging back
like hawks to wound him. That’s
how it seemed to Kano, stand-
ing cold in the morning shadow
of the mountain.
Twenty moons ago it had
seemed a reasonable thing to
beat his breast and say loudly
and furiously, for all to hear
“I shall kill the pilot!” Easy,
then, to loose a quick arrow from
the crowding kunai and with-
draw safe into the sheltering
forest. But he’d delayed, missed
many chances. Had even gone
away to another place, where
this thing had become a small
thing in his mind. As small a
thing as the two bags of salt
he’d promised in payment for
his wife. An expansive promise.
Twelve moons now she’d
stayed with him ; the most beau-
tiful of Mehi’s daughters. And
now he’d brought her back to
his own place only to find she
was in jeopardy. The talk was
that old Mehi of Pogupo had a
mind to complain to this white
chief, the Kiap, who would have
the daughter return to Mehi in
lieu of payment. This was a new
thing, too; the Kiap and the
other, younger white man, and
the surly native policemen with
their guns. They could take his
wife away and also they could
hang him if he killed the pilot.
A/fOST things about his own
place seemed different now
to Kano. His own people. In-
stead of forgetting, they had
woven his name and his obliga-
tions, during his absence, into a
highly derogatory legend. A
legend shrilled by cheeky chil-
dren, of Kano Bigmouth, who
talked like a big man but was
really rubbish. Even 1 his wife’s
loyalty was becoming divided.
Her position was awkward, with
her own father screaming for
the salt or her return; but she
could show more horror at the
latter prospect.
The old tyrant had gone so
far as to declare that he would
reject any substitute proffers of
pigs or kina shell. Of this new
thing, Moni. His only reason for
accepting Kano as a son-in-law.
the old ruffian had ranted, was
on the strength of the promise;
for the Mehis, though wealthy
in other ways, had long been
starved for salt. Aren’t we all!
thought Kano with annoyance.
But he was unused to long
consideration of unpleasant
things, and was not introspective.
The sharp flame of thought died
down for want of stoking. He
felt among the cassowary-quills
in his frizz of hair for a tattered
tobacco-leaf, and stooped for the
fire-stick smouldering dully in
the grass. He gathered his hand a
bow and four-pronged pigeon-
arrows. Began to drone an off-
key native tune. Toes squelch-
ing, gripping roots and footholds
in the zigzag rut of a track, Kano
went on down.
He was as much a part of his
earth as the early wind crooning
in the casuarinas; as natural,
now, as an animal. No one to
see him, no thought of strutting.
No thought. Cassowary-plumes
nodding above his head, hands
clasped childlike round his neck
so the forearms warmed his
chest, bow dangling over the
leaves bunched on his backside,
graceful frontal drape of bilum
net swaying from the wide bark-
belt. Squelching down the track.
A WHITE-CLAD Billy Bunter
sat on a box in the cargo on
the strip. Spectacles, snubnose,
squashed-down Aussie hat.
Writing on a pad clipped to a
bit of three-ply. Lanky Mac
was crouched up on the wing
unscrewing the cap of a
tank. The spindly knees tucked
under him, and tight-skinned
bony face looked almost black
against his snowy, slightly
tattered shirt and shorts, A faded-
grey jockey-peaked skull-cap,
clamped down on his head, was
pretty much the same color as
his eyes.
A fuzz-topped “boy” handed
him up a chamois-filter and
grunted as he followed it with a
bucket of petrol. Down on the
grass a dozen lap-lapped cargo-
boys waited to load. Squatting in
a circle, a couple of them smelled
the gas and hurriedly stubbed
long newspaper-rolled smokes
and pushed them back in their
hair.
“What’s your own weight
again, Mac?” asked the portly
penciller, looking up.
“One-six-twO.”
“Must be y’r big boots; sure
cuts down the payload.”
“You’d have a man flying
naked to squeeze another deener
out of her. Smarten-up, Jelly-
bean ; what’s the load?”
“Right—try this for size;
You, one-six-two; ten cases
meat, five-hundred-and-ten; four
bags corn, four-hundred-and-
thirty; three bags rice, two-
hundred - and - fifteen ; tractor
parts, four-hundred; four bags
sugar, two-hundred-and”
“Hang on—what’s that much
weigh?”
“Nineteen - hundred-and-fifty-
one.”
“Our absolute limit. Might
even be stretching it a bit. Need
a good eleven-thousand feet for
Pogupo.”
“Pogupo’s been screaming for
the salt.”
“Aerodynamics says ‘No’.”
“Ably seconded by the
mountain ’ ”
“Yeah ; play safe. Ha, ha!
Might get another trip in today,
anyway.”
“Right you are, Mac. Gupa /”
“Yes, Masta! ”
“01 disfela bokis meat i go
long balus; na arafela cargo long
hap i go. Im tasol, Maski salt! ”
“Im i straight Masta. Salt i
stop. Cargoboy tekerawa-—cargo
tekeramekwaaa ” Gupa, a
fiery little Sepik, rattled off a
handy blend of pidgin and place-
tajk.
“Grab those bloody kanakas.
too. Jellybean; loafing bastards,
standing there doing nothing.”
“Okay. Gupa”
SO Kano helped load.
He’d been standing at the
edge of the strip enduring
witticisms from his cousin and
his wife’s uncle. When Kano
becomes sufficiently sophisticated
to suffer bank-managers’ letters
about due dates and overdrafts
he’ll experience similar emotions,
His cousin had made good use
of the scene before them to pour
it in about that boast of killing
the pilot. About Kano’s brother
running, bewildered, into the
mesmeric glimmering disk of the
unseen propeller. This plane’s
propeller. And being split in two
like a pig. And the uncle had
dug up the salt business ;
prodded while his victim was
smarting about the pilot and dead
brother. How did it feel to be
known as trash, and how would
it feel when his wife went back
to her family? they asked him.
So Kano found it a relief to
load the plane. He grabbed a
case and joined the line at the
cargo-door. He could hear the
pilot, up on top, earbashing the
refuelling bucket-brigade. And
fiercely resented his immunity,
To kill him would mean brief
glory for Kano, true. And hang-
ing. To continue to spare him,
disgrace. A tough problem.
Still, who knew? A chance
might well come later. Let the
future look after things, A great
believer in the future, was Kano.
He grunted under a bag of rice,
and headed again for the brown
crowd heaving and pushing at
the door of the plane.
But it often so happens that
if a man thinks hard enough on
one matter he’ll see a flash of
light on another. Kano had
heard the pilot and his storeman
shouting “Pogupo” and “Salt”;
and Gupa’s instruction “Dont
load the salt.” But the plane was
going to Pogupo, where Mehi
lived. And here was the salt!
He added the two things again
in his mind. And glanced quickly
at Gupa and the fat white man.
TIP on the wing Lanky Mac
straightened his cramped
knees and rubbed his eyes. He
waved off a kanaka perched on
a wing-strut with a bucket,
“Whew! One thing about gas
fumes, you can’t smell the
coons.”
“You can down here! Tanks
full?”
“If you spat in ’em they’d
bust.” Mac stepped forward on
to the rounded engine cowling
and looked back under the wing.
“Kick ’em along down there —
she’ll cloud-up like beer-froth
about lunch-time.”
“Five minutes.”
“Okay.” Mac moved back on
the wing, chucked down the
filter-and stooped to tighten-the
tank-caps.
In the belly of the plane Kano
helped ram some bags hard
for’ard, and did something with
a stump of sing-sing lipstick.
He squeezed out as the last of
the load thumped in.
Lanky Mac dropped to the
grass. “All set?”
“All aboard,” answered Jelly-
bean. “Watch it!”
“I’ll watch it. See you later.”
Mac climbed into the cockpit
and slammed his door ; became
immediately remote.
The plane swung its tail to the
mountain and surged down the
sloping strip, flattening the grass
behind it. Native children and
a dog jumped excitedly in the
slipstream. Kano palmed his
ears against the brain-rattling
thrash of the prop.
Jellybean stood, a lonely figure
now, watching the take-off from
habit. The plane flashed into the
creeping sunlight, tail rising
sluggishly, fuselage swinging a
bit with the load in its belly,
sticking to the ground.
“They can have big-load take-
offs at this altitude, the fat man
muttered. “Ease her off, Mac.
Get her up, boy! ”
The shimmering sliver far
down the strip lifted, hung, rose
again and began to climb slowly
in a wide sweep out over the
valley. When the plane came
back, droning high up towards
the first hurdle, Jellybean was
deep in a tattered “whodunit”
fished from his hip-pocket.
A LONG the side of the blunt,
upthrust engine cowling
Lanky Mac could see the saddle
TWO POEMS... By James McAuley
NEW GUINEA
(In memory of Archbishop Alain de Boismenu, M.S.C.)
Bird-shaped island with secretive bird-voices,
Land of apocalypse, where the earth dances.
The mountains speak, the doors of the spirit open,
And men are shaken by obscure trances.
The forest-odors, insects, clouds, and fountains
Are like the figures of my inmost dream,
Vibrant with untellable recognition;
A wordless revelation is their theme.
The stranger is engulfed in those high valleys,
Where mists of morning linger like the breath
That Wisdom breathes upon our specular darkness:
Regions of prayer, of solitude, and of death!
Life holds its shape in the modes of dance and music,
The hands of craftsmen trace its patternings;
Yet stains of blood, and evil spirits, lurk
Like cockroaches in the interstices of things.
We in that land begin our rule in courage,
The seal of peace gives warrant to intrusion;
But then our grin of emptiness breaks the skin.
Formless dishonor spreads its proud confusion.
Whence that deep longing for an exerciser,
For Christ descending as a thaumaturge
Into his saints, as formerly in the desert,
Warring with demons on the outer verge.
Only by this can life become authentic.
Configured henceforth in eternal mode:
Splendor, simplicity, joy—such as were seen
In one who now sleeps by his mountain road.
TO THE HOLY SPIRIT
Leaving your fragrant rest on the summit of morning calm.
Descend, Bird of Paradise, from the high mountain;
And plumed with glowing iris along each curving wire
Visit in time our regions of eucalypt and palm.
Dance, prophetic bird, in rippling spectrums of fire,
Ray forth your incandescent ritual like a fountain;
Let your drab earthly mate that watches in morning calm
Unseen, be filled with the nuptial splendors of your desire.
Engender upon our souls your sacred rhythm: inspire
The trembling breath of the flute, the exultant cosmic psalm,
The dance that breaks into flower beneath the storm-voiced
mountain;
Array in your dazzling intricate plumage the swaying choir.


One Chain Saw that gives you
\k
V
POWER...
WALK UP TO A GOOD SIZED TREE AND
START TO FELL IT. At the first bite of the
full-sized, 22 inch blade you will feel the
surging power of the mighty little Mobilco
Be-Bo ... a full and genuine 5 h.p. which
makes the job quicker and your earnings
better.
MORE POWER
NOW TURN YOUR BLADE FOR CROSS-
CUTTING. Once again you feel the positive
power of your Mobilco Be-Bo . . . engine run-
ning on a note that spells power . . . blade cut-
ting through the log at a speed that surprises.
This is the kind of power and performance which
has caused one pulp wood contractor to buy and
operate ten Mobilco Be-Bo Chain Saws.
M
VL
(K
jl
1
and MORE POWER
WE'RE TALKING POWER, BECAUSE A ONE-MAN MACHINE MUST HAVE IT IN
PLENTY. It is now up to you to prove it to your own satisfaction. Just call on your nearest
Mobile© dealer, or write to us direct, and well give you proof beyond doubting. After
all, it is power and cutting speed, reliability and light-
weight which you want in a chain saw. Mobile© has all
these, plus a three months 7 guarantee and quick, expert
spares and maintenance facilities. Write this very day
for the full story.
Your Mobilco comes in a fitted
wooden case with either chisel
type or scratch type chain.
Tools, fuel can and complete
instruction book are enclosed.
Mobilco
ONE-MAN CHAIN SAW
& M-'-vVfm
m
*3 I '
MOBILCQ
1
mobile industrial
equipment limited
" * nuhMC. IF 4909
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE
PHONE: IF 4209
. MOBILCO, SYDNEY
TELEGRAMS - - - - - - w T||«uORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
HEAD OFFICE - - 410-416 WHITEHORSE 1081 (9 .LINES)
PHONE _ . _
TASMANIA: CAMERON* &'SUTHERLAND LTD,
BRISBANE ADELAIDE, PERTH
HOBART'AND LAUNCESTON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
(Post it today)
Send me today full particulars of
your chain saw.
Name
Address
nf the pass coming slowly down
01 him Nine-thousand-
Sre'e hundred would clear this
Ine Below him, close below, the
steepening surface of the jungle
fooked Hke greatly magnified,
tight-packed hearts of some
elotic green cauliflower Above,
a thin white wave of cloud was
breaking down oyer the crest.
Mac trimmed the nose a shade
higher; the airspeed-needle
flickered back to eighty-five,
steadied. “Come on, old girl’’
he S aid, and the plane squashed
in sluggishly at the tree-tops.
Not quite good enough. Mac
turned again short of the crest
and flew parallel, gaining another
hundred-feet of height. Light
struck spasmodically into the
cabin as the plane passed under
patches of sky. Now, as the
ridge sank close beside him, Mac
could see the far ramparts of his
next valley a long way over,
hazy-green and dappled with
shadow.
Good enough. Mac turned in
over a depression in the saddle,
levelled, held it while tree-tops
heaved and raced and fell away
beneath him. The plane dipped
its blunt beak and swooped and
came alive as the wings bit good,
fast-drumming air again.
Struth, that wasn’t too good.
Cleared it like a black-orpington.
He brought the nose up to its
climbing attitude and headed out
over the deep-down, gully-scarred
bottom of the valley. His new
course cut across it in a long
diagonal. A mile of air under
the keel now. A good feeling.
The plane droned towards the
distant barrier, where towering,
serried rows of bluestained
, sharks-teeth scratched a long
belly of cloud. He did some
routine calculating. Lighter
now —less gas. Should scrape
over. If the cloud left a hole to
scrape in. This’d be his fortieth
“Pogupo” without a turnback.
Not bad.
Another plane chattered in his
earphones. “Madang, Able Easy
Sugar at three zero abeam Awar
five-thousand” That’d be
Scotty, chuffing along in the old
Dragon. Well, he and Jelly’d
be down there at Madang them-
selves about sixish, pouring down
a few cool pots, putting flying
back where it belonged.
Jelly reckoned it belonged
strictly in a man’s past. He’d be
at it again tonight after about
the sixth beer. Lanky Mac could
hear him already:
“Let’s pull out, sell out, get
out —grab some land along the
Wahgi and grow coffee. Look
at Jimmy Fahey—ten-thousand
smackers first crack. ‘There go
Lanky Mac and old Jellybean,’
they’ll say. ‘Cunning bastards —
got out of the air-business at the
right time and cleaned-*ap on
coffee!’ Well, why don't we?”
And Lena would give that
sudden, worried look and say,
“Jelly’s right, Mac. You can t
get killed growing coffee!”
They were both right. It was
hard to say “Okay, I won’t fly
any more.” That was all. Like
giving up grog or smokes or
backing horses. Selfish and sort
of perverse, he supposed. He’d
get around to it. All New Guinea
pilots talked of getting set n
something solid. Except the
young, new blokes.
JJARMONICS of thought
often ran on while his mind
was focused hard and sharp on
the minute-to-minute problems
of flight; while he was making
almost reflex decisions.
Far below stretched patch-
work-gardens and a tracery of
fighting-ditches. White smoke
drifted from black patches of
burning kunai. Kanaka fires. A
bad mob down there. Uncon-
trolled. He carried some trade
stuff and a .38 in case that hap-
pened. If one thing didn’t work,
try the other. Probably wouldn’t
p 1 y° u anyway, Sammy Wills at
“ogupo had said, until your
curiosity-value wore off.
Above was an immensity of
ue sky white-feathered with
mares’ tails. Ahead detail
r Ji? ene d on the shadowed flank
ot the range; and Mac could see
«white threads >t
waterfalls.
Twelve minutes now to the old
sharks-teeth Mac moved his
hands from the wheel; the plane
climbed steadily on turn, and his
feet on the rudder-pedals kept
her on course. He reached
down for a thermos, unscrewed
the cap and drank some coffee,
Lit a smoke and puffed it. it
seemed to burn away quickly.
Lifted (down the radiophone and
jargoned —Able Baker Yoke
abeam Amki at tnree eight. Ten-
thousand. Contact. ETA
Pogupo five six
JJACK on the strip Jellybean
had discovered whodunit,
Picked him a mile off ” he said
disgustedly. He put the book
down, stretched, indulged in a
yawn like the mating-cry of a
tiger and moved to get the next
load organised.
Gupa! Long balus i come
tenfela bag flour long store i go ,
tenfela bag salt here i go” *
Gupa eye-checked the salt-
stack. Again. He looked
puzzled. “Masta, yop lookim.
No got tenfela salt. Eightfela
tasol. Before i got tenfela!”
Jellybean leaped forward and
counted. “What the hell? Some-
fela kisim i go long store? Husat
i rousim salt? Findim now
quicklime!”
Gupa ran into the thatched
store-hut; came out. “No
got salt i go finis. Natink
somefela bloody long - long
kanaka putim long balus. Mi no
lookim.”
Jellybean stared malevolently
at the depleted salt-stack. “Two
of these—about a hundred-and-
eighty pounds extra weight,
Wonder he got off at all.” He
looked foolishly at the sky.
Bloody New Guinea—worry-
worry-worry! Can’t do a thing
about it now!” He sat down to
fidget and wait. He’d had years
of practice.
Kano leaned on his bow and
grinned.
T ANKY MAC made his de-
cision. The plane was climb-
ing like a bag of spuds; he’d had
to circle for height. But the
cloud seemed broken in the gap.
He’d get through under it. Been
through in plenty worse.
At eleven-thousand feet the
plane turned wearily into a
zigzag cleft half-filled with cloud,
Mac was unconscious of his
fingers drumming nervously on
the wheel, feeling for the last
inch of height. He was watching
the scarped walls of the pass.
Shoaling in over a twisting green
glacier of jungle. No room now
for error; no room to turn back
or sink a few feet. A down-
draught now would stick him in
the dirt like a dart. No room
for fear; every sense strained to
remain midstream in a gutter of
air. To avoid touching bottom
or sides.
The high - whining prop
thrashed a flurrv of cloud
0 nothing vision agSn
™reamTa wet diff snreadina at
? f f "Sm with it
him - 1 urn with it, turn with it,
watch the other side, watch the
bloody timber! Bang into cloud
again , one, two, three seconds,
out again. Trees coming up—
eeease her over. Again eeeasy
does it. Another half-minute;
last ridge round the next corner ;
and cloud pouring in over it like
soapsuds in a drain. Climb /
shrieks instinct. Can’t climb!
Bang into it. Can’t see a bloody
thing! One, two, three and here
she comes—it’s Sydney or the
bush now boy! Stick back and
stall or scrape over! Hit or
miss...
T'vOWN at Pogupo Assistant
District Officer Sammy Wills
was untangling a native quarrel.
The usual complex brew of
grouches about the ownership of
land, pigs and women. A spear
had been flung and its addressee
lay near death,
Sammy sat on his veranda
quietly questioning the naked
litigants, a “turnimtalk” stolidly
translating into pidgin. Squatting
on the ground near by a babbling
crowd of witnesses and bench!
men debated the issue with fierce
ielish - On the edge of the airstrip
worked a gane Q f prisoners under
bored § re | ard P of two police .
boys Amo^g their decorated
k j nsmen the prisoners looked like
plucked f ow l s? stripped of
phimes, paint and weapons, heads
and beards shaved. Wearing
only drab lap-laps marked with
broad-arrows.
Any day at any outpos t
T 1 y t
~. N ,
J y ,
p " g ’
{Continued on page 34)


Mother & Son
by James Hackston
4 4 1“"N OU will go into the
\ J bedroom, sir, and take
y your pants down! ”
C Whenever Mother
discarded my Christian-name
and, in a ponderous manner,
called me “sir,” I always knew I
was in for it good and proper,
that the educational (as a correc-
tive for bad conduct) walloping
I was about to receive was to be
of a longer period and more
forcefully and industriously
applied than the educational
chastisement generally received.
Funny thing about Mother,
too, was that, normally, she
was easygoing, friendly, light
and airy in manner; but as
soon as I’d got myself into
trouble with her, she sort of
closed down on the genial
Mother I’d once known, not only
got cross with me but also got
up-stage with me, and adopted
a severe, dignified, cultured
manner, pronouncing her words
slowly and carefully and giving
each word a full, heavy flavor.
She wore a different expres-
sion, too : a stiff, judicial air.
Head high, superior, chin up, she
looked at me as if she’d never
smiled or laughed with me ever.
We might have been complete
strangers and only just met.
Of course, as soon as I heard
that forerunner of calamitous
happenings to come, my own
general demeanor changed. I
swung away from my old self,
set my face in an aloof, distant-
looking mould (no anticipatory,
undignified blubbering), and met
her on her own ground. Also,
being a student of such educa-
tional punishment, I worked out
a special plan to work to, and
after many trials and experi-
ments got things down to a
system, which, in some cases,
lightened the lesson I was
about to receive or, if not
actually that, then made it
harder for Mother to
administer —this, for my spiteful
nature, acted as a salve to my
feelings while receiving the
lesson.
TOURING my earlier spankings
1 used to hang fire, as it
were, and take my pants down
slowly—l may as well mention
here that Mother belonged to
the bare-behind school, with
the student evenly balanced over
the knees and the hand used in
preference to those other popular
weapons, the freshly cut, bendy
slip off the apple-tree or the
quince-tree—or even the willow.
And I’d worked it out that she
favored this procedure for the
simple reason that she felt she
was doing better when she heard
the live, ringing sound the palm
of a hand makes when coming
in contact forcefully with the
bare cheek. It, sounded success-
ful. The hot, stinging echoes
gave proof that she was hurting
the receiver.
But I woke up to the fact that,
taking my pants down slowly,
such hedging and crayfishing
about only postponed the dread
business and that, long before
I had even received the first
wallop, I could almost feel
Mother’s hand raining a perfect
fusillade of hot fire down on the
selected area.
So, after putting up with this
foolishness of mine for a while,
I changed over to getting the
business through with a, rush,
undid my braces at a terrific
speed, yanked my pants down
like greased-lightning and had
myself bent over her knees
before she was set and ready
to receive me. In fact, I rushed
her so, that I flabbergasted her,
got her rattled, and when she
did get down to business she
forgot to put as much punch or
kick into her work ; she rushed
things crossly, and didn’t know
it : quick, hasty smacks without
the full, high, wide-arm swing.
I’d discovered, too, that a
series of such hurried, excited,
hasty slaps did not feel as bad
or sting as much as a number
of slow, premeditated slaps
spaced between long, hanging
periods between each delivery.
With the slow delivery, the hand
seemed to gain more power and
weight with each wallop and the
part under treatment had more
time to burn, the heat expand to
a wider circumference, beat and
throb more, had more leisure
to expand and grow, whereas,
with the slaps falling hot on top
of each other, there was no time
for the ripples of a smack to
expand before the next one fell
on top of it.
I also found out that the
flesh, when relaxed, vibrated
and tingled more to pain than
when taut and firm. Foolishly,
I used to lie limp on the knee
and when the softness of the
cheeks met the hard hand, it
felt like fireworks, so I gave up
that style and stretched out as
stiff as a crowbar, making the
muscles hard and fibrelike. Much
better. And Mother never woke
up to it either ; and this method
had the additional advantage of
making Mother’s hands sting a
bit and, for her own sake, she
put less ginger and power
behind her wallops.
DUT once when I got into
trouble, a circumstance arose
wherein I could evolve no
remedy to lessen the punishment.
Pants-down speed and the set
firmness of the behind were of
no use whatsoever.
Mother was making scones at
the time, but so incensed was
she at the magnitude of my crime
that she did not wait to even
wash the dough off her hands
and made me dash my pants
down at such a speed that all
former swiftnesses of mine in
this line were made to look slow.
During this, my first punish-
ment on the bare-bottom with
a doughy hand, I, still progres-
sively studious, discovered that,
under the force of the slap, the
.dough, momentarily, gummed
the flat of the hand to the
skin, and, as the hand was
withdrawn, it, under such con-
ditions, did not come away from
the cheeks with the same clear
crispness and precision as a clean
hand ; the parting of the palm
from the buttock had a sort of
dragging, cloggy movement;
a slow, gluelike pulling-away,
and, as the slaps increased, the
dough modelled itself into
pellets which stuck fast to my
skin and made a sort of granity
surface whereon the descending
hand felt as if it had studs
attached to it, #
On this occasion I remon-
strated and suggested to Mother
that she should have washed
her hands first and, as I found
that taking my punishment in
this way was most disagreeable,
from then on saw to it that I
did not indulge in my favorite,
forbidden swear when Mother
was making scones.
Then there was the time when
a serious, misdemeanor of mine
coincided with Mother’s
washing-up and she applied her
hands to my bare seat without
drying them first. I noted here
that a wet hand, when coming
in fierce contact with the bare
skin, registers a different sort
of stinging power; the cool,
crisp cheek vibrates with a sort
of electric feeling, and the echoes
of this slap have a crackling
sound.
I discovered that, after this
administration, both cheeks
(which I examined privately in
the back shed after the affair
was over) were more flushed and
pinker than the tinges which
followed other punishments,
and the sting more lasting. No
good.
In this case, I found that
taking my punishment was more
than disagreeable, and from then
on saw to it that I did not indulge
in my favorite, forbidden swear
when Mother was washing up.
I must say, though, that when
Mother administered punishment
she was dignified about it;
nothing common; no sudden,
rude, low-grade slap on the face
or poor-scale belt over the ear.
She stuck to the bottom, and
when I had to lower my pants
so that she could make a better
job of it I did not have to take
them down before the rest of
the family privacy and
decorum, Mother’s technique.
back, sentimentally,
to the many severe
smackings I received, I remem-
ber the terrible name I gave to
a bullant which, while perambu-
lating about our* kitchen, bit me
perfectly and I, instinctively and
uncontrolledly, let off the chain
certain lurid and popular word
to bring me that soothing relief
which, as I had observed, its
usage seemed to bring to grown-
ups when beset by some trying
circumstance of the moment.
Mother could not have
looked more horrified had I
used all the bad words thundered
by Red Nolan the brilliant
bullocky, who camped opposite
our place and who was my
unofficial tutor. The “sir” I got
on this occasion was a deep,
slow, portentous “sir” that had
a knell-of-doom sound about it.
By the way she said “sir,” the
way she delivered it, snapped it
or tasted it richly on the tongue,
I could tell what degree of
hiding I was in for. This time,
though, her “sir,” in addition
to containing all the solem-
nities, harshnesses, justice,
temper, hurt, sorrow and dis-
appointed feelings that rightly
belonged to a mother on such
an occasion, had a deeply-
religious note in it.
Some swear!
So, when I fell foul of Mother,
the bedroom was always the
dSpot where all such punitive
actions were carried out. In
this department, as well, good
taste, manners and refinement
were to the fore —nothing in-
delicate.
To stress this point I would
like to state, in admiration of
her decency, that Mother never
stood rudely by while I went
through the sad act of letting
my pants down. She studied my
feelings by always withdrawing,
either out of the room tempor-
arily while she rolled up the
right sleeve of her blouse, or, if
not that, went to the window
and stood, pretending to admire
the scenery while I removed
the nails in my pants and put
the six of them on the bed in
a neat, even, little row so that
I would not lose any of them,
the longest nail at one end of
the row and, according to sizes,
the rest of them laid out in their
proper places—large down to
small.
Then, as the time neared for
her to go into action, she’d
advance to the cane curtains
that hung between the rooms to
see that there were no leaks in
the folds through which the
grinning hyenas in the other
room could peep through and
view the performance—had there
been a door there, I’m sure she
would have locked it.
I always noted, too, that she
carried out this manoeuvre with
her back turned to me and,
also, after I’d replied in the
affirmative to her “Are you
ready, sir?” that she kept her
eyes half averted-like in a
manner most comforting to me
in that I felt that Mother was
not, really, looking at my bare
bottom.
All these considerate acts on
her part went with those
occasions when I took them
down slowly and deliberately
and, on those days when I went
through the whole business with
lightning speed she even then,
rushed as she was, displayed no
rudeness or did anything out-
side the bounds of propriety.
Even the sedate, dignified
procession of myself and Mother
through the house on our way to
the torture-chamber was a re-
finement of procedure and had
a religious atmosphere. We
might have been going to church.
Poise. Calm demeanor. No
high-pitched voice. No culprit
stumbling blindly behind the
flagellator with a wet face and
bawling the house down in
anticipation. None of that
exhibitionism. Good bearing
Nor' did the grinning hyenas
who, after we’d passed them
and they were safely at the rear
made humorous gestures and
gave silent impersonations of
what was in store for me, put us
out of step or bring to our
features one look of cognisance
of their dastardly and mean
activities.
Nor did the smirking hyenas
hear one sob ever come through
those cane curtains to their
itching ears. Save for the echoes
of Mother’s stinging, swinging
smacks, no sound broke the
solemn silence. Not that I’m
saying that, after it was all over,
I did not disturb the atmosphere
outside by spitting in one of
their eyes or ramming a handful
of the dog’s pollard down the
worst offender’s throat. And I
nearly forgot to mention that
after Mother finished opera-
tions she always retired from
the scene without viewing my
pink and red-hot bottom.
Fair, too, was she. For
instance, once when she was
sending down her wallops like
a hailstorm and the whole down-
pour, through some oversight
or carelessness on her part, was
falling on the one side instead
of being evenly distributed (what
are two cheeks for?), thereby
engendering a terrific burst of
fire in the one spot, and, on
my saying “Use the other side,
too. Mother—not all on the one
side!” she complied instantly
with my request and transferred
to the other as well, and
although I hadn’t counted how
many of the twenty-five smacks
were apportioned to each,
I reckoned, by the even stinging
feeling in each one, that they’d
both received about the same
number.
'T'HEN it happened. One day,
-*■ when I was “sir’d” to go
into the bedroom and take my
papts down, I went into the room
as usual, walking to it with
Mother in just the same old
churchlike style, and Mother,
with her usual ladylike con-
sideration, retired to the window
to again admire the same scenery
while I got ready for her.
But I did not get ready; just
stood there, pants still not
down. After she’d given me
the usual time to prepare for
the onslaught, she turned
round to do her duty and, seeing
me still with my pants up, a
sudden flush of anger came to
her cheeks.
“Why haven’t you taken your
pants down, sir?” she rapped—
self-control gone to the wind.
“Take them down this very
minute!”
I made no move.
Her voice rose and “sir” went
by the board. “Take your pants
down this instant! Do you hear
me?”
I didn’t budge.
“How dare you defy me?
Take your pants down, I tell
you.”
I still made no move; just
stood looking at her. Then I
said quietly, “I’m not going to
take them down.”
She gasped at my insolence,
as she thought.
A note of finality came into my
voice. “I’m not going to take
them down any more.”
“You’ll do as I tell you!”
I shook my head.
“And why?” she demanded.
I stood silent,
“Why?”
What I wanted to tell her was
hard to say.
“Why?” she again asked; but
in more of a conciliatory tone.
“I’m getting too big now to
take my pants down.” I halted.
“In front of a woman.”
And I meant it, too, and I
said it without the least
suggestion of defiance of her in
my voice.
She never said a word, and
then all the anger she’d
registered left her and she sat
down and stared at me for quite
a while, as if from afar off, then
reached her hand out and pulled
me to her, hugged me deeply
and, instead of giving me a
walloping, gently stroked my
hair.
SHIPWRECK
Is it never that I shall have another love
But you, ocean? Shall I go lonely down
And drown in your silence, pave
With my skull your beach? Your shells thrown
Up on the dry sand are your answer to death.
Yours is the living man, to take his breath:
To struggle in your toils, and die, if he’s weak,
And be cast up for the birds to pick
His pale eyes out. But this is all; he must not ask
Why he loves you, and is your love. Unmask
Your woman never, unless you’d see
The ugliness in her bed, the stale loves sunk.
Come to her, always, at the pitch of her tide and be
Her fool, forever, sailor, with her wild mysteries
drunk.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


AT
■S'
Hospital
/
'/tot's.
nmi
lltlkk
swat.
EAU
:y
m
5*
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distincfum
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER AND CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, ESTB. 1838
THE CHAIN
BY J. D. WOODS
THE welfare-officer walked to
the door and showed his
visitors to chairs.
Middle-aged woman,
complaining type, probably had
no children and was embittered ;
a keen cold eye for other people’s
affairs; the middle-distance eye
that focused naturally about
fifty yards away, in the back-
yards of the neighbors; her
trim-tailored back a straight line
broken by the bun of righteous-
ness behind her head. Domin-
ant, a moraliser.
It was the practice of the offi-
cer to scrutinise all of his visi-
tors closely, but on this occasion
he almost forgot the man. How-
ever, as their complaint was
lodged, he indexed the exterior
marks that tagged the inward
character.
Resigned, but still blunting the
edges of his wife’s forthrightness
with apologetic little bursts of
explanatory detail. Terrified
that people should think his wife
dominated him, but unable to do
much about it.
“It’s these migrants,” she was
saying, her shallow bosom swell-
ing with the intake of breath
necessary for the whole story.
“Our neighbors,” particular-
ised her husband.
“You are lodging a com-
plaint?”
“Oh, no. .
“Definitely yes.” The wife,
sitting on the edge of her chair,
resembled another chair herself,
angled and straight. “Something
has to be done. Someone has to
do it.”
. . from the point of view
of cruelty,” amended her hus-
band.
The officer reached for a
paper from the pigeonholes
above the table.
“One moment,” he said. “Your
name, madam?”
“Parker. Mrs, Helen Parker.”
Long practice had enabled
him to seize the initiative and
he was careful to keep it. Com-
plainants could take up a whole
day with personal details of a
quarrel for which in the long run
they would not testify with their
signature. He asked precise
questions and took notes.
It appeared that the neighbor
was a Balt of some kind, a
diminutive little fellow with
sandy hair standing straight up.
Peculiar. He drank a lot and
jnade horrible noises in the night.
Ihe wife —-Mr. and Mrs. Parker
were not sure of her appearance.
fact, they had never seen her.
but she was a slavedriver. Per-
haps it was his sister, not his
Tif 6 ' -^ r some other woman,
they did not know. She never
emerged from the house, but she
was a cruel woman. Would the
officer have the charge of cruelty
investigated?
The welfare-officer lowered his
Pen and looked up.
You must be more definite,
an you give me something to
go on? Who is cruel to whom?
And when?”
The thin bosom rose again.
see, we are poultrymen.
We have three acres by
e river, and it is not possible to
ee Ver y well into the neighbor’s
d * s st *U heavily tim-
“Difficult,” commented the
officer.
“But this little Balt is clearing
his place...”
“. . . he’s going in for poultry
himself,” amended Mr. Parker,
but his wife took the ball of
conversation from his hands,
“You are wanting to know
where the cruelty comes in?
Well, I’ll tell you, and you can
judge for yourself.”
The officer poised his pen and
started to scribble. His technique
aimed to keep them to the point.
They thought that he was taking
down every word, and the
knowledge kept them on the
rails of facts.
“Every morning that —that
slavedriver makes that little man
work beyond his strength. She
sends him to the timber in the
yard, and,” her voice quivered,
“makes the boy chain him to a
post.”
“Till night-time,” amended
Mr. Parker.
“Without so much as a bite to
eat.”
“. . . only a tin of water.”
The officer finished scribbling
and looked up. “. . . bite to eat.
And you say you have seen this
yourselves?”
“Every day of the week,” said
Mrs. Parker firmly.
“Except Sundays,” amended
her husband. “He and the boy
go somewhere on Sundays.”
“We call her The Slavedriver.
She uses a solid cow-chain about
twenty yards long, and you can
see with the glasses that she
locks the chain on with a pad-
lock.”
“Glasses?”
“I have a pair of opera-glasses
that I picked up at a sale,”
“I see. He’s locked to the
chain. How long has this been
going on?”
“A month of more. He has
cleared much of his block now,
and stacked the logs for posts
and firewood. She makes him
work like a nigger all day.”
“And in the evening?”
“The boy comes home from
school and unlocks the chain
and they go inside the house.”
The welfare-officer stood up.
“You are sure of the facts?” he
said cautiously. “Chain and
padlock?”
“Sure?”
“Certain.”
“Very well. I will start an
investigation and let you know
what comes of it. Meanwhile I
have your address. Good-morn-
ing, Mrs. Parker.”
He filed the paper and reached
for the telephone.
TN the court, made to appear
as much like a consulting
room as possible, the magistrate,
dressed in a blue suit, sat in an
easy-chair without table or
notes. No uniforms, no for-
mality, no curious public.
An interpreter, quick and in-
tent. A quiet man at the door.
Mrs. and Mr. Parker seated by
the table. The welfare-officer
brought in the Balt and the child.
He produced a pencil and a
book for the boy to scribble in
while the case was heard. The
visiting psychologist might find
some interesting data afterwards
in the book.
The Balt’s name was Piotr.
The surname seemed to have no
vowels, and when the interpreter
pronounced it, the name sounded
more like boughs scraping in a
wind than an articulation.
So they called him Peter, and
the boy Mihail they called
Michael.
“Michael,” said the magistrate
kindly. “You understand Eng-
lish, don’t you? How old are
you?”
“Nine.”
“Where is your mother?”
“The Germans took her.”
“Ah . . . who lives in your
house?” ,
“Me and my father.”
“And?”
The boy shrugged, “No one
; else.”
A murmur sped round the
room.
“You chain your father to the
trees every morning?”
“Vpc ”
“Why?”
“He tells me.”
The magistrate glanced round
the room, then leaned forward.
“And why does he tell you to
chain him?”
“So he will be a good man.”
“What sort of good man?”
“A man who does not drink
vodka.”
The magistrate rattled the
pencil on his teeth, then walked
across the room to the welfare-
officer and whispered to him.
The officer rose and left the
room, returning half a minute
later with a file of papers.
■pAPERS rustled as one after
another was turned up. The
magistrate turned to the inter-
preter.
“It is true that X ■ Peter . . .
has been charged with being
drunk and disorderly seven times
in the last year?”
The bough scraped again in
the wind.
“Yes, your Worship.”
“And eleven times the pre-
vious year?”
“Yes.”
“And as recently as five weeks
ago?”
“Yes, your Worship.”
The magistrate tapped the
pencil on the table. “Show me
your book, Michael.”
The pages were covered with
looped links of chain.
“I am considering making a .
charge against the boy as a neg-
lected child so that he can be
cared for in an institution. How
much money is in the Balt’s bank
account?”
More scraping of boughs.
“Thirteen pounds.”
“And has Peter a job?”
“Not at present.”
Mrs. Parker jerked aside from
the restraining hand of her hus-
band and stood up, speaking
firmly.
“Your Worship, I know some-
thing of this little lad. He is
a dear little fellow, and, good
though the institutions may be,
a home is definitely better for a
nine-year-old boy. If you agree,
I will take him as a ward and
bring him up properly. He will
still be able to see his father
sometimes —under proper safe-
guards, of course.”
The magistrate filled in time
for a minute while he scruti-
nised the woman before him.
Acid, frustrated needing some-
one to love and boss round.
Would probably make an ideal
foster-parent. The father would
be colorless, obviously hard-
working, conscientious.
“Your interest in the child is
commendable, madam,” he com-
plimented. “And do you under-
stand the conditions that bind
State wards?”
“I think so.”
A wind started in the boughs,
grew swiftly to a violent storm,
and the interpreter struggled with
the Balt.
“Help me to hold him,” called
the interpreter. “He’ll go ber-
serk.”
The quiet man at the door
restrained the Balt without much
show of force. He was a small
man and not well-nourished. It
would be better to separate them
now and get it over, thought the
magistrate,
nrHE noise in the garage-house
next door was definitely
worse than ever. Mrs. Parker
put Michael to bed and told him
to put his head under the bed-
clothes.
“Sleep well, my dear,” she said
softly. “My lovely boy.” „
His bedroom was on the quiet
side of the house. When she
shut the window, the inhuman
noises ceased. She tiptoed back
to the lounge-room, and listened
at the window.
“It’s like a hundred demons
let loose,” she said. “That man
will have to go.”
“It’s the horrors,” explained
her husband. “He’s probably
drinking his thirteen pounds.
When the money’s gone, he’ll
have to get a job. It will make
or mar him.”
“If you ask me,” retorted Mrs.
Parker, “he’s marred already.”
They settled round the fire,
he reading and she knitting and
giving him a running resume of
her thoughts. Wild moans float-
ed in on the wind. He rose
and closed the top of the win-
dow.
“Better,” commented his wife.
“If we talk, we won’t hear much
of it.”
“I’d rather read.”
“Please yourself "
They talked anl knitted and
read a little until he wound up
the clock at ten o’clock,
“Did you notice that the Balt
has stopped yelling?” he yawned.
“About time.” She packed her
knitting into the neat bag and
tiptoed into the child’s bedroom.
The bed was empty and the
wind was blowing the curtains
about the open window.
“My boy!” cried Helen Par-
ker. “That horrible man!”
“Steady, Helen,” warned her
husband. “Where are you go-
ing? You can’t go over there
at this time of night.”
“Can’t I?” she said over her
shoulder. “I’m going to get my
boy. We’ve got to be firm about
this for the boy’s sake.”
He hesitated a moment, then,
following her out of the house,
he seized the axe from the wood-
heap and strode toward the
garage-home.
\X7HEN she entered it, the
’* room was in filthy dis-
order.
Food, bottles, dirty clothes
and utensils littered floor and
table and sink as she stood in
the doorway. The drunken Balt
lay sodden and bleared under
the sink. A heavy chrin was
locked to his leg, and the other
end of the chain was securely
tied to the arm of the boy by a
thin cord.
The Balt opened his eyes and
hated her. o
“Mihail,” his lips moved.
The lad clung to his father’s
shoulder.
She stepped into the room,
but her husband restrained her.
“Be careful, my dear. He may
become violent. Wait till morn-
ing and I’ll ring the welfare-
officer. The Balt can’t do much
in this state.”
The Balt’s red eyes watched
her. The chain was heavy, the
cord tied in a dozen tight knots.
“Perhaps you’re right,” she
said, and they retreated.
When they reached their own
fence Helen Parker stopped.
“Listen. What’s that?”
A chain rattled behind them.
It clanked and lumbered through
the trees to the bottom of the
paddock,
“They’re running away!” she
cried. “Come on!”
A/fAN and wife picked their
way through the scrub and
cut saplings in the darkness.
“There they are,” she shouted,
“on the bank of the river! Stop,
Michael! Michael! ”
Urgent noises came from the
two shadows on the bank like
the sound of boughs scraping in
a rising wind. The taller shadow
disappeared, and there was a
splash.
“Michael, wait! Michael!”
She ran forward, and there was
another splash as the smaller
shadow vanished. The two
foster-parents ran to the bank.
“The chain’s the trouble,”
panted Mr. Parker. “They might
be able to swim if it weren’t for
the chain.”
“Do something, will you!”
screamed Helen Parker. “Oh,
why don’t you do something?”
They ran up and down the
bank, peering into the blackness
and feeling in the water with the
axe in the hope that someone
might touch it and haul himself
to safety.
Fifteen minutes passed before
they desisted. Their wet hands
met and quivered in the dark-
ness.


SjiecLaMj Woopau
~tb Auituon,
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect. It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it bolds its shape until the very end of its
many years of bard service.
The new 1954 range of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will never fade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will be well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
frusa^et
PURE WOOL
iriotk
GUARANTEED NEVER
TO FADE OR SHRINK
< *
r
k
I ' i
mm
C4.113
Have you tried
e ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke—and to offer
£-these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
AS FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE.WHO SMOKE THEM
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Photographs of Queensland (coun-
try and city) in the 1890’s, also of
Queensland personalities during that
period.—sBs7.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, own room,
quiet home with telephone, Mosman
or Cremorne preferred.—sB6o.
English family, husband, wife and
three small children, shortly arriving
from Taunton (Somerset), wants fur-
nished cottage, Sydney, inexpensive
rental.—sBs9.
To borrow copy of The Dam
Busters by Paul Brickhill.—5858.
Information Sought
Some handy rules for the preven-
tion of fire in bush and scrub terri-
tory ?
(1) Be sure that your match is out.
Break it in two before you throw it
away. (2) Be sure that pipe-ashes and
cigar- or cigarette-ends are dead before
throwing them away. Never throw
them into scrub, leaves or litter. (3)
Before building a fire, scrape away all
inflammable material from a spot sft.
in diameter. Dig a small hole in the
centre and in it build your fire. Keep
your fire small. Never build it against
trees or logs or near scrub. (4) Never
break camp before your fire is out.
Stir the embers while soaking them
with water. Turn small sticks and
drench both sides. Wet the' ground
around the fire, If you cannot get
water stir in earth and tread it down
until packed tight over and around
the fire. Be sure the last spark is
extinguished. (5) Never burn bush or
scrub in windy weather nor while
there is the slightest danger that the
fire will get away. Burning, however,
must be restricted to those periods
during which it is legal to burn.
#
What does the silver drummer feed
on, where is it to be found and is it
a tasty table dish?
The silver drummer ( K. sydneyanus )
is common around rocky reefs in the
neighborhood of Sydney during the
warmer parts of the year, when the
rock? between tide-levels are covered
with a brown seaweed ( Wildemania )
upon which it feeds. When this dies
off during the winter months, most
of the drummer likewise disappear,
perhaps migrating into deeper water,
though young examples are occasion-
ally taken throughout the year. They
also feed upon shellfish and crabs, but
are so fond of the weed that, if
handfuls of it be thrown into the
water, they will rise to it with avidity
and partly expose themselves above
the surface. They are captured by
line-fishermen with hooks baited with
seaweed, but most of those mar-
keted are caught in nets. The silver
drummer attains a length of over
30in.; smaller specimens are tasty
table fish, but the larger examples
are almost worthless as food unless
specially treated. It ranges from
N.S.W. to south-western Australia and
New Zealand.
• ♦ • ♦
When did the Commonwealth
Government agree to take over the
Northern Territory from South Aus-
tralia, and how was the transfer
effected ?
On December 7, 1907, the Common-
wealth and South Australia entered
into an agreement for the surrender
to and acceptance by the Common-
wealth of the Northern Territory
subject to approval by the Common-
wealth and South Australian Parlia-
ments. The South Australian Parlia-
ment assented on May 14, 1908, and
the Commonwealth on November 16,
1910. The territory was transferred to
the Commonwealth by proclamation
on January 1, 1911.
* * * *
(7) A few details concerning the
Eucla artesian-water basin and (2)
how much salt in water can stock
stand ?
(1) The Eucla or Nullarbor Basin
lies along the shores of the Great
Australian Bight, extending 400 miles
east from Israelite Bay and-200 miles
inland. Its area is about 74,300 square
miles, mainly Tertiary limestones rest-
ing on what are probably Cretaceous
marine beds. The water is for the
most part sub-artesian, a saline quality
being struck at 200 ft. and a much
fresher quality below that depth. In
some cases, as in the Madura bore,
2000 ft. deep, the water rises to the
surface. (2) It has been found that
horses thrive on water containing loz.
of salt to the gallon, while cattle can
stand T}oz. and sheep 2oz. —even 3oz.
in a dry season.
Brief Answers
F J.D.: Bard in Bondage, reprinted
essays by P. I. O’Leary, edited by
Joseph O’Dwyer, was published by
the P. I. O’Leary Memorial Commit-
tee, Particulars from Miss U. Clinton,
6 Waverley-street, Essendon, W. 5
(Vic.) A.P.: Presume you refer
to Place of Many Crows, a brief
history of the foundation of
Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.), by Eric
Irvin, published by “The Daily
Advertiser,” Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.).
M.M.C.: Frederick T. Macart-
ney’s address is 66 Stanley-street,
Black Rock (Vic.)... .E. 1.: (1) The
son as lessee is for- the duration of
the lease in the position of the owner
of the property, and the father is a
mere guest. (2) Yes, provided the total
of all gifts made by the father inside
any period of 18 months, which in-
cludes the time of the gift to the
daughter-in-law, does not exceed
£2OO and provided the gift is not
evidenced in writing. (3) Yes
M.F,: Oil-based paint would not
affect Virginia creeper, which is
sometimes sprayed with an oil solu-
tion for disease. It is more likely to
affect the paint on the wall than the
reverse... .W.G.: “Currency lads”
and “currency lasses” were terms once
applied to the native-born population
of N. S. Wales to distinguish them
from the immigrant portion of the
inhabitants, who were designated as
“sterling” S.W.: There are several
species of small lizards belonging to
the same family as the Jew-lizard,
and the name “bicycle-lizard” is
generally applied to them, because
when they run the action of the hind
legs, together with the position in
which they hold the fore-limbs, is sug-
gestive of riding a bicycle J.L.:
The “Red Page” of The Bulletin has
been conducted by A. G. Stephens,
Arthur H. Adams, Bertram Stevens,
David McKee Wright, Cecil Mann,
John Bede Dailey and Douglas
Stewart J.S.A.: Write Age and
Invalid Pensions Branch, Dept, of
Social Services, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney, for free handbook “Social
Services of the Commonwealth”
A.S.: “Red Page” article on Harry
Morant (“The Breaker”) appeared in
The Bulletin of March 12, 1947
H. 8.: “The Australasian Photo
Review,” published by Kodak (Aus-
tralasia) Pty., Ltd., 379 George-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.R.: Can’t make head or tail of
that murder mystery... .N. 8.: Your
friends have been pulling your leg.
J.C.: Has the merit of being
the most effective sleeping-draught
we’ve struck to date P.J.8.; A
batch of three just when we thought
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
the “death-in-the-desert” school had
closed down P.S,F.: Half Aus-
tralia laughed when Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”) first wrote that story
E.0’8.: That old-timer tottered to
the basket F.L.A.: Two thousand
words based on one ancient pun....
R.R.: The runner was left at the post,
and the tramp has visited these parts
before J.C.D.: Began well, but
you were struggling before the third
page C.L.S.; Half-clad curate on
antheap is a variation of a much-
exploited theme P.Q.: You’ve a
long way to go before you’ll even get
within cooee of the front-rankers....
G.K.: Not dipping into our pockets
for the comic American negro you’ve
tried to pass off as an abo H.S.R.:
Sorry for Lulu whose hands were like
“waving seaweed at the turn of the
tide” R.M.: No time for “those
rather eerie crimes committed by the
savage inner-self of a normally tem-
perate person” 8.T.: Couldn’t see
through our tears to find how it
finished P.D.W.: You’re roaming
around Brian James’s paddock
O.C.T. :You have a remarkable gift
for writing voluminously about noth-
ing. .. .E.R.; Landlady dreary, village
drunk dreadful, old-age pensioner not
so good N.M.C.: We have a dis-
mal feeling that now you have started
writing about those wretched derelicts
there’ll be no stopping y0u....A.P.:
Not for us “The Wayward Wench
from Wagga Wagga.”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
ili
m m
m
m
H
■
v ; •
■
msm
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Miss Perkins Will Oblige...
The Cut-out Concert
By HENRY G. LAMOND
IN the first decade of this
century, when a property
which did not carry 100,000
sheep was barely entitled to
the honorable designation of a
“station,” the general shearing
might last eight to 10 weeks. A
board of 50 shearers was
common; there might be an
equal number of rouseabouts; a
station staff of from 40 to 60,
with nearly half of them about
the Shed, was a regular thing. In
addition, there would be
teamsters, travellers, hawkers
and other odds and ends.
The “cut-out,” which marked
the end of the shearing, was a
big event. There might be races,
raffles, a cricket-match, sundry
other gambles and media of
losing money. There’d also be a
Cut-out Concert. Though those
were the horse-and-saddle days
distance didn’t mean a thing—a
man or a woman who couldn’t
ride or drive 50 or more miles to
a cut-out meeting wasn’t worth
calling a “sport.” They used to
come —they’d drain the district
for that radius.
Most of the money-making
stunts hinged on a common
excuse: a benefit in aid of the
local hospital. We used to rake
in the money, too. A couple of
hundred quid, with no expenses
to be deducted, plus the Govern-
ment subsidy, used to help keep
the hospital more-or-less solvent.
There were no ambulances or
Flying Doctors then. We lived
or died. Most of us lived.
The other events of the
carnival might be promoted on
the spur of the moment. The
concert was a thing which had
to be organised in advance.
Talept! There was no lack of
the stuff. Working in one shed,
just as an example, I’ve known
an M.A. (Oxon.), a B.A.
(Cantab.), a graduate from
Dublin and many others, quite
a lot with some sort of concert
talent: lawyers in disguise, dis-
robed ministers, a dentist who
was cook at an outstation, a dis-
carded politician, broken-down
actors, a disqualified doctor,
black sheep and those which were
piebald. Those fellows had one
thing in common: the past was
closed; the future was a dim
mystery; the present was a
whirligig of time, mainly up and
down the spirals of a corkscrew.
Variety! We could pick and
choose for talent.
The idea of holding a concert
would come with an explosion—
though some arty person had
doubtless been brooding on it
for weeks. The notion made an
immediate appeal a 2s.
entrance-fee would swell the
common funds. The main
trouble was to get il started.
Dnce a couple of artists had got
over their pretended coyness and
sham diffidence the others would
come in with a rush—singers,
comedians, monologue artists,
step-dancers, reciters, duets,
sketches and all that went to
ntake a Cut-out Concert go with
a zip. After yarding a couple of
leaders the organiser would have
t 0 hold the others off with a whip
~~at least, with verbal lashes.
Jealousy! It was there — plus.
There was no need to advertise
he thing. We couldn’t get away
rrora it. If a man turned a
corner suddenly he’d find some-
one practising a solo, rehearsing
a ?°? m ’ Siting his part pared
and shiny for the big night. The
5!? e -s° n g of the chorus —
diy, usually an American coon
ongj-wouid be heard on the
oard, at the shearers’ mess, in
tte rouseabouts’ hut, in the
places 1 - 1118 Camp and othef ° dd
One-two-threc-fonr-five-six-seben,
Cl *l’ren go to Heaben.
'v lm b up, ma chil’ren, climb.
Another favored theme was:
“Oh, dem gol’en slippers,” and
a few other lines which are lost
over the years. Sing! With the
buzz and roar of the machines as
a bass background, with the
whole of the board of shearers
and rouseabouts giving lip, those
chorus-themes used to go over
like grand opera.
In addition, of course, the
corner-men had to try-out their
jokes. There was an etiquette
about this; they had to he
practised in private. The point
would be blunted if the public
heard those gags before the
curtain went up. The jokes,
every one of them, would be
moth-eaten, mildewed and dog-
eared. They were hallowed by
age. But the way in which Sambo
and Bones, the corner-men, put
them over would instil new life
into them and make them sound
original. We were out to be
entertained. We intended to be
amused. We were an appreciative
audience.
The theatre had to be pre-
pared. That would be the wool-
room ; a great and spacious
barnlike building. Bales of wool
would be rolled to one end,
stacked in tiers to give back-
benchers a full view, and No
Smoking notices hung in con-
spicuous places. Other bales, or
the press-platform at the end,
would serve as the stage.
If the manager’s wife had a
piano, and if she would lend it,
there was always a key-tickler
among the mixed mob which
gathered at the cut-out. Failing
that, a concertina, accordion or
mouth-organ artist was easy to
find. It was no trouble to get
that person started; the main
difficulty was to get him* to
stop. ,
It didn’t matter if the musician
was ignorant of any tune de-
manded : the accompanist could
vamp. That fitted every
emergency : “Turn. Tum-tum.
Turn. Tum-tum. Turn. Tum-
tum.” Why learn intricate pieces
when vamping was easy?
Stage lighting was no problem.
Cut a number of empty kerosene-
tins diagonally in half; put a
cross-cut in the bottom ; turn up
the edges ; stick in a candle ; nail
it on the stage where the foot-
lights should go, and, apart from
an odd one blowing out, there
was no better illumination
possible in any city. Any man
handy with a packing-needle,
some bale-twine and a few old
bales could make a curtain which
would either roll up or fall down
at the wrong moment.
The opening night arri/ves.
The theatre is full. The manager,
station staff, other important
people and lady visitors in the
front rows; young rouseatjputs
twittering with excitement are
perched high on the bales at the
back. The orchestra of one
commences his overture: “Turn.
Tum-tum. Turn. Tum-tum.
Turn. Tum-tum.” The full
chorus is heard off-stage; “Oh,
dem gol’en slippers ” The
curtain rolls up or is pulled
aside by a self - conscious
assistant.
A gasp sounds. A hush
descends. Mr. Interlocutor
stands in the middle of the stage.
His clothes smell of mothballs.
The ends of his moustache are
waxed with kerosene-soap. He
looks important. He feels
important. He is important! He
clears his throat with a cough
which rasps the rafters; he
glances to each side of the stage,
where, two on each wing, the
corner-men are ready. They are
black, and the sweat or nervous-
ness or heat cuts furrows through
the cork-charcoal as it rolls down
their cheeks.
“Mr. Interlocutor,” Sambo
starts his piece, and the accent
he ladles on his words would
make any American coon disown
his mode of speech. “Ah wus
walkin’ dahn th’ street th’ other
day an’ ”
“Yes, Sambo.” Mr. Inter-
locutor helps his brother-artist,
showing a fatherly concern in his
tone and gaining strength as he
draws confidence, and speaking
so precisely he himself might
almost wonder if it is his own
voice. “What did you see?”
The audience sits breathless,
holding its sides in readiness to
burst into simultaneous laughter
and applause. They know when
to clap. The oldest boundary-
rider and the youngest rouse-
about there, and all others in
between, heard that joke in their
cradle-days. Coming from
Sambo, at the Cut-out Concert,
it is new, original, crammed with
mirth and rich in humor. They
are ready. They applaud.
Other items follow. The star
piece was usually that given by
the famed shearers’ cook
“Gympie” Howard, who died
recently in Longreach (C.Q.).
“Gympie” in his make-up would
do the moving-pictures as he
sang: “Wan, two, free, balance
like me.” He knew an encore
would be demanded. He was
ready for it: before the applause
had died he would return, this
time to give a masterly interpre-
tation of a Chinese gardener
hawking vegetables,
“Mr. Gaylow” had teased the
frizzed hair from the counter-
lining of a saddle to make him-
self a wig for his comic sketch.
“Mr. Qastock” gave a humorous
recitation. “Danny” came out
to do a step-dance, with pennies
tacked to the soles of his boots.
No one knew where he got his
costume —a pair of lady’s under-
garments, with lace on the
bottom edges. What a hand he
got! Wolf-whistles and sundry
invitations were called to him.
“Danny” took a hand at invita-
tions : he invited all and sundry,
individually and collectively, to
step up on the stage or come out-
side. We had whips of variety.
Then Mr. Interlocutor —these
days he’d be termed a compere—
struck a new and important pose.
He announced that Miss Lizzie
Perkins had agreed to “oblige”
with a song (every item was an
“oblige”). Miss Perkins, we
gathered, was a visitor. Her
voice had been acclaimed by
experts. Given a chance, and
unless she married a shearer or
a boundary-rider in the mean-
time, she’d sing before royalty.
We applauded. Miss Perkins
blushed and bowed. “Turn.
Turn - turn. Turn. Turn - turn.
Turn. Tum-tum” sounded from
the accompanist. Miss Perkins
—known as “Lizzie” when
behind the bgr at the local pub—
choked in her embarrassment, hit
the wrong note for a start,
stopped. Then, in explanation,
she whispered: “I started too
high.” She observed the etiquette
of the stage: she turned round
and again faced the audience to
make % fresh start. We, did the
right thing: we clapped.
Occasionally the manager or
some other V.I.P. might be
induced to “oblige.” He didn't
do any common stuff. No, sir!
Managers in those days had
dignity ; they eschewed vulgarity.
Our “obliger” would strain his
belt and swell his chest, while he
kept pace with the tum-tum.
Finally the last item would
come on the stage. The curtain
would fall or be pulled down.
As that “Turn. Tum-tum” fitted
all songs it also served for the
National Anthem. Those
fellows, in those days, were
certainly not noted for their lip-
loyalty. They proved the real
thing in the wars which fol-
lowed. But on an occasion such
as this —their emotions touched,
their artistic spirits inspired—
they used to bellow it out in fine
style, with treble voices from th®
rear.
And outside, the concert over,
away in the distance towards the
rouseabouts’ hut a chorus sang
with gusto: “One-two-three-four-
five-six-seben, all good chil’ren
go to Heaben,” while another
group, going in a different direc-
tion, responded: “Oh, dem
gol’en slippers.” Others, talking
with’ the seriousness of accom-
plished critics, decided it was the
best concert ever staged, and
deplored the wealth of talent
going to waste in the bush.
Marys Longa Him...
Taking The Abo. Census
By WINGELLA
11 \"”"N HY they want to have
\A / a census ta ken of the
y y aboriginals in the
outback has me
beat,” growled the constable-in-
charge, as he stared at the little
group of aborigines crouched on
the sunbaked ground outside his
office. “Well, it’s got to be done,
I suppose, so I might as well
make a dab at it.”
He drew a bundle of census-
forms toward him and dipped
his pen in the ink* “Send ’em in,
Billy,” he said to his black-
tracker. “One at a time,
remember.”
Tracker Billy yelled something
unintelligible, and an old native
hauled himself upright, shook
himself dog - fashion and
slouched forward.
“What name you?” asked the
constable.
No answer, only a long,
unwavering stare.
“Ask him what his name is,
Billy!” The constable turned to
the tracker, who fired a bunch
of verbal fireworks at the old
man, and received a long quaver-
ing call in reply.
“What name, Billy?”
“ Y i r m a llakmunganurrayarra-
marraban,” replied Billy.
“Hell-up!” gasped the con-
stable. “What name him white-
feller name, Billy?”
“Tommy.”
“Tommy it is, then. Now, how
old does he say he is?”
“Him say, might be him ten-
year-old,” said Billy, after a few
more verbal fireworks had passed
between him and the old man.
“And the rest! I’ll put him
down at sixty—he looks it.
Now, is he married?”
“Yowi, four feller wife longa
him. On’y, Mary him no more
full-up wife longa him ; him bin
wife longa him brudder; on’y
him brudder bin die; Tommy
bin catchum Mary all right;
on’y, him full-up wife longa dead
man all time.”
“All right, Mary’s wiped. Give
me the names of his other wives
instead.”
The list of wives filled-in, the
constable demanded the names
and ages of the offspring, also
their sex.
“How many piccaninny
Tommy bin catchum, Billy?”
More jabbering; then Billy
unburdened himself in detail.
“Two feller piccaninny belong
Alice—one him bin catchum
longa Tommy, one longa Paddy.
Mary, him bin catchum four
feller piccaninny, two feller boy,
two feller girl. All about that
one piccaninny belong dead man,
no ' more belong Tommy;
Tommy him on’y little-bit fader
longa him ; dead man, him full-
up fader. Kitty, him little-bit
mumma longa Paddy, him full-
up mumma longa Jimmy, him >
no more mumma longa Elsie.
Elsie, him no more savvy Paddy,
him sister longa Jimmy. Tommy,
him fader longa Paddy, him
husban’ longa Elsie.”
“How old is Elsie?” queried
the'constable.
“Close-up one-hundred year,
my think it.”
“Bring her in here,” ordered
the constable; “that is, if she
can still walk. If she can’t, let
someone carry her in. Anyhow,
I want to have a look at her.”
A slim figure advances, and
giggles shyly at the constable.
She might be a bare fifteen years,
judging by her looks and her
shapeliness.
“How many piccaninny?”
queries the constable.
“Him no more bin catchum,
yet. Might be, by-um-bye him
catchum some feller. Just now,
no more. Him on’y harp-
mumma longa Polly, no more
full-up mumma Ipnga anybody,
yet.”
“Oh —send the whole boiling
of ’em bush again!” cried the
demented constable. “How on
earth the Government expects
me to sort out these relationships,
with their harp-mummas, and
little-bit mummas, and full-up
mummas, Canberra only knows.
It’s a job on its own. Send ’em
all bush again, Billy—no more
wantum any more,”
“More better you give um
little bit ’bacca, boss,” urged
Billy; “him bin think it you bin
call him up longa ’bacca, blanket,
all same before, long time no
more gettum now. This one
paper-yabber no good longa
blackfeller, him no more savvy
um.”
“Paper-yabber is ho good,
Billy,” growled the constable.
“It’s a pity those Canberra
officials who worked up this
stunt didn’t take on the job
themselves.”


f
V
'£
nop
0
mu
m
0
*
©
tfO.t
Jt
O.V»
CO
55.177
now
available
at ail
hotels
The Stout
that keeps
you fit!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
In aluminium
containers
3/7 for 20
Light up one of these
superb English cigar-
ettes of pre-war
excellence. Savour
the rich, mellow
smoothness of that pure
Virginia tobacco—and you will
have formed a lasting preference for
Rothmans De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in the
most distinguished homes and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted as
England’s luxury
cigarette.
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN ENGLAND BV THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman).* F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JJ. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
It takes a lot of rain to post-
pone a big race in Sydney or
Melbourne. As it turned out, the
decision to postpone the Doom-
ben Cup was a poor one, and it
naturally affects the schedules of
horses and trainers. Several
horses which have been entered
for the Sydney Turf Club Cup
are still in Brisbane, and the
Rosehill field could be consider-
ably weakened.
Racing at Canterbury last
Saturday threw no clairvoyant
light on the S.T.C. Cup. But a
few outlines are beginning to
take shape. Durabay, French
Echo, Sobriquet, Castillo and
Nikola have weakened prospects,
and some of them are unlikely
starters. Sir Pilot ran well
enough in the Flying to have a
rough chance in the Cup, but he
is also in the Winter Handicap,
first leg of the S.T.C. double.
He probably hasn’t done enough
this time up to last the Cup mile-
and-a-half; seven furlongs
seems more his size this time.
Regoli, winner of the Canterbury
Flying with 8.13, drops to 8.6
in the Winter Handicap: which
is worth consideration,, Spearby
and Tarien, minor placegetters to
Regoli on Saturday, are down
for Rosehill. It was Tarien’s first
outing since finishing third to
Prince Cortauld and Karendi in
the A.J.C. All - Aged Stakes
three months back. Liquid Fire,
Hans, First Row and Krakatoa
shaped moderately on Saturday
and their prospects in the Winter
Handicap appear to be remote.
The Grand National is nearly
as old as the Melbourne Cup—
-1886 is the year, and Firetail was
the first winner, carrying the
minimum weight, 9st. It
wasn’t unusual in the early days
for the winner to take seven-
and-a-half minutes, or more, to
cover the three miles and a fur-
long. Steeplechasing didn’t have
a long reign in Sydney; nowa-
days it is mostly confined to Vic-
toria and South Australia. Ama-
teurs were prominent in the early
days, and, in those days, the
nags really carried weight: for
instance, Sussex, 13.1, Redleap
13.3, Mountain God, Mysore,
Ruby, 12.7 each, Dungan, 12.9,-
and Bribery, 12.11. Giving a
horse 13st. over the Grand
National course would cause a
considerable commotion now;
but the V.R.C. has fixed a maxi-
mum of 12.7. On Saturday the
lightly weighted Fearless Chief
(16 to 1) beat Teedum and
Boanerges in 6min. 11 sec.*
(track was against fast time).
The favorite, Lowther, looked set
for an easy victory when he
toppled over nine furlongs from
home.
Three days before she won the
Flemington First Two-year-old
Mile, Billet Lass had finished a
close second in a Moonee Valley
sprint; she also won over 6j fur-
longs at Pakenham. However,
she wasn’t given much of a
chance at the V.R.C. track, and
started at long odds. She won
with ease. The filly has staying
blood: by Billet (imp.) from
, Libyan Lass by Caithness (imp.),
from Manya by Manfred, from
Koanie by Spearhead (imp.).
Manya is a sister of The Trump
(Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
1937).
Baroda Beam won the Second
Two-year-old Mile at Flemington
from Valmelle and Pettyuna
comfortably. He won at Caul-
field earlier in the season. Son
of Star of Baroda (imp.).
• • • •
Memories were revived at
Canterbury when Tea Towel
won the main event for owner
Alan Cooper, spectacular figure
of a few years back. Cooper
always had a soft spot for Tea
Towel, now an aged stallion, and
looking very well. Trainer is
Gordon Stewart; Jimmy Shean,
17-year-old son of Fred Shean,
was on top. It’s the first time
Tea Towel has raced since he
came into Stewart’s hands, and
it’s the apprentice’s first
metropolitan win.
True Company, winner of the
Newcastle Juvenile Handicap,
was bred by Bill Mackay, of
Tingaroo Stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
The colt sold at the yearling sales
last year for 270gns.
Rohini, winner of the Canter-
bury Second Ashbury Stakes, was
sold the day before the race
for lOOOgns. to Adaminaby
(Monaro) man, N. Shanley.
Like Billet Lass, a winner at
Melbourne on Saturday, The
Curate, which won the Second
Newcastle Maiden on the same
afternoon, includes The Trump
in his family.
• • » •
Belbeiys was rated as some-
thing above-average, but finished
ninth in the colts’ and geldings’
Two-year-old at Canterbury. At
his only prior start (Warwick
Farm, June 26) the gelding won
impressively. Owners of Criollo
travelled about 500 miles to see
their colt win.
' • • •
Form was no pointer to
Bexley’s win in the Campsie
Stakes at Canterbury—he hadn’i
been closer than fifth in his last
half-dozen starts. Jockey Bill
Campbell (who won the Q.T.C.
Derby on Headstockman) sent
him to the front early and, to
most people’s surprise, he stayed
there. But the horses behind
Bexley were poor stayers, so the
win shouldn’t be taken too
seriously.
Gloaming figures in the
pedigree of Chief Hunter, winner
of the Hawkesbury Second Two-
year-old Maiden. Sir Daniel,
winner of the First Two-year-old
Maiden, is from a daughter of
Mufti, winner of the V.R.C,
Oaks.
• • • •
Cragsley had a firskup win in
the Hawkesbury Maiden Handi-
cap (seven furlongs). Trained
by Vic Thompson at Rosebery,
the three-year-old gelding is by
Cragsman out of Cloudsley.
In winning his first race, a
minor Maiden division of a
Gosford two-year-old, Royal
Town repaid a small amount of
the 1900gns. he cost as a yearling
at the Randwick auction in April
last year. His half-brother,
Secret Law (by Lynch Law), won
races in Tasmania, and he 'is
closely related to Silver King,
Wedding Eve, El Senorita and
Wedding Day. Silver King was
a brilliant galloper, and in one
of his two-year-old- successes, a
Tattefsall’s (Randwick) sprint, he
scored by 10 lengths. He also
won the Rosehill Guineas, and
was caught on the winning-post
in the 1934 A.J.C. Derby by
Theo. Wedding Day won an
A.J.C. Doncaster. Royal Town
is by Newtown Wonder (imp.)
from Secrecy by El Cacique
(imp.) from Secret Wedding and
goes back to Trenton.
* * *
Australia has done pretty well
in sport this year, and when
Peter Thomson won the British
Open last Friday—the first Aus-
tralian to do so—golf was added
to the laurels. Not forgetting
Doug. Bachli, another Australian
“first ever,” who won the British
amateur title in May. Thomson
is the youngest player to win the
British Open since Bobby Jones
won it in 1926, at the same age
—24.
Thomson beat. Dai Rees, Syd
Scott and Bobby Locke by a
stroke. His rounds were 72, 71,
69, 71. Par for the course is 74.
* * *
The Rugby League brawl at
Sydney Cricket Ground ended
when referee Oxford walked off
the field. N.S.W. was ahead of
England 17-6 at the time.
Officials tried to persuade
Oxford to go back on the field.
Rightly, he refused, but the
attempt makes quaint reading of
an official statement to the Press,
full of mild thunder, in which the
N.S.W. management committee
“deplore the incidents responsible
for the referee’s action, which
they regard as a blot on the
unblemished record of Rugby
League.” The last is a bit rich.
* * *
In the lilywhite code, Uni-
versity, leaders in the Sydney
Rugby Union comp., were
downed in the mud at Manly by
the home team, 6-0. In other
games. Eastern Suburbs beat
Parramatta, 19-0, Gordon beat
Drummoyne, 16-3, Northern
Suburbs beat Randwick, 11-8,
and St. George and Eastwood
went to a six-all draw.
* * *
There were no major upsets in
last Saturday’s V.F.L. games
Colling wood kept on top of the
table, defeating Melbourne,
which had its boots on the wrong
foot, in what was, for the
Demons, a “crisis” game (8.6-
5.16), and Footscray retained its
second rating by disposing of St
Kilda (13.14-9.8). Geelong had
no particular trouble with
Fitzroy (10.8-6.6), and Richmond
hustled North, which also had'
the wrong boots on, out of “the
four,” to get back itself (14.14-
6.15). In the other games
Essendon, which is hovering
threateningly on the outskirts of
the leading quartet, comfortably
defeated Hawthorn (13.16-9.9),
and, in the one really close game,
Carlton finished one goal the
better of South (11.10-10.10).
“J.H.”: Port Adelaide has set
a remarkable record this year
Up till at least the sixth series
Port teams were undefeated in
the League firsts and seconds
and the Senior and Junior
Colts; and in the Amateur
League (Grade Al) Semaphore
Central, which has long been a
nursery for the Magpies, was one
of the joint leaders. All the
teams are still on top, or close
to it; one or two at time of
writing still unbeaten. The
League firsts went down for the
first time in the 10th series—to
their traditional rivals, Norwood.
* * *
“Kooyong”; Australia’s tennis
top-liners, Hoad, Rosewall and
the rest, wisely by-passed all the
mixed-doubles events in the
recent Australian season. Af
Wimbledon, of recent years, it
has been usual for Australians
to play the card. It’s too much.
Rosewall, for instance, who
reached the semi-finals in the
three events, played 62 sets all
told in 12 days. On the day
before his singles-final with
“Drob.” he had played in the
men’s doubles, semi-final, and the
mixed-doubles final. Next year
Australia’s best will almost
certainly give the mixed event the
go-by.
* * *
Darby Brown (10.4|) had little
trouble beating Jim Farrell
(10.6) at Leichhardt Stadium,
and a chin-cracking right floored
Farrell for the full count in round
three. Brown began full of fight,
and his double-barrelled blows,
lefts followed by rights, bounced
off Farrell’s brow with
monotonous regularity. Brown
won round one from end to end,
and was out of order for shoot-
ing a right to Farrell’s head that
landed seconds after the bell.
But Darby was obviously after a
quick win. He jolted Jim un-
mercifully before knocking him
against the ropes in round three.
Another right knocked Farrell
down a little later for a count of
eight, and one more right
finished him for the night.


A Pair of Champions
Mr. Corbett and Mr. Sullivan
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
READING the recent
reprint, of James J.
Corbett’s The Roar of
the Crowd, the title
brought to my mind not so
much Choinyski and Corbett
battling for 28 rounds under the
hot sun on a barge moored
in the middle of a bay—
to dodge the authorities —
or John L. Sullivan roaring, as
Corbett says, “like a wounded
lion” when the bold challenger
defied him on a point of pre-
cedence, but Clark Gable; or
perhaps it was Humphrey Bogart.
In short, Hollywood ; not that
Hollywood is otherwise relevant,
but simply because melodrama
bloomed in the period, and the
period had color and exuberance.
Both Corbett and Sullivan had
a taste for the theatre: but it
was the flesh-and-blood theatre,
and between it and the films is the
division of substance and
shadow. Some of this unreality
clings to books on the period.
As though a gang of merry-
makers had discovered some of
James J. Corbett’s gear—the
straw hat and cane he wore to
the Sullivan fight, or his flyaway
collar and kid-gloves—and had
dressed-up. But the clothes don’t
fit. Even the appellation “Gentle-
man Jim” has worsened over the
years. It had point once, though.
And haunting about it are
the fights; the portraits; the
authentic flavor of the time; the
anecdotes . . .
As, for instance, the one about
“Mike McGuiness of the Gas-
house.” William A. Brady had
given Corbett a job “on the road”
in the melodrama “After Dark.”
Corbett discovered that he wasn’t
an actor. But he also discovered
that people were willing to pay
to see him on the stage. Possibly
because a prizefighter who had
worked in a bank and who took
a pride in looking and acting as
though he still worked in one—
to the gargantuan amusement of
John L. Sullivan —was worth
paying money to see.
At the time Mr. Sullivan him-
self, after throwing into the
Pacific a box of cigars presented
to him (by proxy) by young,
ambitious Mr. Corbett, had taken
himself and company off to Aus-
tralia, to appear in the melo-
drama “Honest Hearts and
Willing Hands.”
The hands and hearts were, so
to speak, all John L.; the play
primarily a vehicle for the re-
sounding name John L. Sullivan.
Young Mr. Corbett burned to
correct the difference. He con-
vinced Brady, and lo! “James
J. Corbett” looked fine, too, at
the top of the bill. Corbett
already had fights with Joe
Choinyski, Jake Kilrain and
Peter Jackson under his belt.
Put, compared with such as the
Englishman Charley Mitchell or
the Australian Frank Slavin, he
was practically unknown. One
way of emerging from that state,
he reasoned, was to have his
name in big letters, where people
could see it.
+ +
The show opened in Phila-
delphia. “James J. Corbett the
California Wonder” offered to
fight all-comers and to pay 100
dollars to any man he couldn’t
knock-out in four rounds. John
L. Sullivan had done the same
thing, barnstorming through the
country, knocking them over like
ninepins. Only he offered a
thousand dollars.
But Corbett had a different
style of fighting. All his fights
had been over a long distance.
He had knocked his men o.ut,
but only after he had worn them
down. He had a knock-out
punch, and a good one, but his
hands were frail. So he jabbed
and ducked and evaded until he
could run the risk of putting one
hand out of action. After the.
magic of the posters had faded
a little he began to wonder if he
could knock-out all-comers in
four rounds. Or whether, mixing
it with some wild slugger, he
might get knocked-out himself.
He poked round the saloons,
asking questions, testing public
opinion. What he heard wasn’t
reassuring. There were a lot of
tough men in Philadelphia ; this
fellow from California would
likely get his head knocked off.
Everywhere he was told that the
toughest man in Philadelphia was
Mike McGuiness of the Gas-
house.
The first night Corbett
squeezed past a crowd in the
alley and, inside, remarked in a
pleased voice that a good crowd
had come early, waiting for the
gallery-door to open. He was
informed the gallery-door didn’t
open on the alley. The crowd
were aspirants for the hundred
dollars.
As the eager fighters poured in
Corbett vetted them. Mike
McGuiness was identified as a
tall, rawboned, quiet man, stand-
ing aloof from" the others, carry-
ing a grip. Brady got rid of him.
But he was back next night;
and every night. Business
boomed and they hired another
theatre. Mike McGuiness
arrived the first night, patient,
implacable. They moved to a
third theatre, on the outskirts of
Philadelphia, and when they
opened the door there was Mike
McGuiness of the Gas-house and
his little bag.
By this time, of course, people
were beginning to talk. The
papers took it up in blistering
editorials. Indignation was rife.
So, one night, Corbett agreed to
fight McGuiness. He told
McGuiness to change, and
McGuiness waited, stripped,
while Brady delivered a long,
filibustering speech to the crowd.
Who said Corbett wouldn’t fight
McGuiness? The wicked news-
papers. Well, they were wrong.
McGuiness, as the local
champion, the flower of Phila-
delphia manhood, had been saved
till last. Thunderous applause.
Then they sent McGuiness home.
But he was back next night,
and this time there could be no
evasion. In the dressing-room
Corbett and his sparring-partner
gave McGuiness the treatment,
in which they were word-perfect.
They gave it to all opponents, as
a matter of routine, but with
McGuiness they really tried. It
consisted of an exchange of
gruesome reminiscences, and it
was sometimes startlingly
effective.
McGuiness was lacing his
boots, so they couldn’t see his
face. But, at the key-line, “Aw,
a couple of broken ribs ain’t
nothin’ —it’s the dead ones I
worry about,” they thought they
heard him mumbling; an
excellent symptom. They
listened hopefully. But he was
only humming “In Dublin’s sweet
city, where the girls are so
pretty ”
Everything was organised:
referee, rounds —long ones to tire
McGuiness, take some of the
fire out of him before Corbett
risked exchanging punches with
him. And, naturally, the time-
keeper would let Corbett know
when a round was about to end.
McGuiness attacked like a wild
man. That was good. That way
he would spend his strength
quickly. And when he showed
signs of flagging Corbett stimu-
lated him with the remark, “I’ve
never met a Protestant yet I
couldn’t lick.” Corbett was a
master of evasion. Not long
before, in San Francisco, he had
fought Peter Jackson for sixty-
one rounds. Jackson said he
was “a great man that night
the quickest man I ever saw in
my life—it was like boxing a
ghost.” So he didn’t have much
trouble avoiding McGuiness’s
untutored rushes. But he didn’t
want to take any risks while
McGuiness was fresh. Then, at
last, when he began “to run down
like a clock,” Corbett stopped
running and hit him, as hard.as
he had ever hit anyone, on the
jaw ; just before the bell.
Watching him walk away,
Corbett could see he was “drunk
with the punch.” Corbett
hurried to his own corner, took
several deep, refreshing breaths,
and nodded to the timekeeper.
McGuiness was hardly seated
before the next round started.
Another set punch and
McGuiness was helpless. Corbett
stepped back and they led
McGuiness away—he couldn’t
bring himself to deliver the final
blow.
If there’s a hero in the story
it isn’t Corbett. But it is told
with relish, as though the
narrator took a quiet pride in
McGuiness’s obstinacy and
courage, a delight in him as a
character; and, over the years,
is making an apology. It wasn’t
quite a fair go, Corbett seems
to say ; but that’s the way it is,
in real life.
McGuiness wasn’t his name,
Corbett adds, in a sort of post-
script. After telling the story
many times he received a letter
from a lawyer, informing him,
that “McGuiness’s” widow and
daughter found the “notoriety”
embarrassing. The old fighter
must have shaken his black head
over that letter.
Not long after the McGuiness
episode the Press published a
sensational challenge by John L.
Sullivan. After stating that for
two years his “hands had been
tied” by his theatrical contracts
“as is known throughout the
civilised world” and, therefore, he
had been unable to accept the
various challenges by Slavin and
Co., he continues:
I hereby challenge any and all of
the bluffers who have been trying to
make capital at my expense to fight
me either the last week in August
this year or'the first week In Septem-
ber this year at the Olympic Club,
New Orleans, Da., for a purse of
$25,000 and an outside bet of
$lO,OOO, the winner of the fight to
take the entire purse. I insist upon
the outside bet of $lO,OOO to show
that they mean business ....
I give precedence in this challenge
to Frank P. Slavin, of Australia, as
he and his followers have done the
greatest amount of blowing. My
second preference is the bombastic
sprinter Charles Mitchell, of Eng-
land, whom I would rather whip
than any man in the world. My
third preference is James _ Corbett,
of California, who has achieved his
share of bombast. But in this chal-
lenge I Include all fighters—first
come, first served —who are white.
I will not fight a negro. I never
have and never shall.
I prefer this challenge should be
accepted by some of the foreigners
who have been sprinting so hard
after the American dollars of late,
as I would rather whip them than
any of my own countrymen.
The Marquis of Queensberry rules
must govern this contest, as I want
fighting, not footracing, and 1 in-
tend to keep the championship of
the world where it belongs, in the
land of the free and the home of
the brave.
John L. Sullivan,
Champion of the World.
That, in my opinion, is superb.
The last bit has a swing of vigor,
a roll of pomp, like a herald’s
declamation. With music off:
dada-da-da-da-da-DA—we come
—the United States Marines,
perhaps, mingling 'not incon-
gruously with “The Wearin’ of
the Green” and the dark, fierce
“Shan Van Voght.” As Corbett
says, no statement to the Press
by a boxer could ever cause the
same stir again, because the same
conditions would never arise.
There was only one John L.
Sullivan. And John L. Sullivan
was the hero of the Irish-
Americans.
Sullivan named Slavin,
Mitchell and Corbett, in that
order, and that would be about
their ranking as logical con-
tenders ; with Peter Jackson, but
for the color-bar, either bracketed
with Slavin or between him and
Mitchell (Slavin and Jackson
were later to fight each other to
a standstill in London; if I
remember correctly, Slavin won,
but neither did much good after-
wards). An 4 with so much
ambitious talent knocking around
Corbett had to look sharp.
Sullivan had stipulated that
$2500 must be put up within
thirty days, the rest within a
stated period, “To cut me out!”
young Corbett cried.
Raising the money was a
serious difficulty, particularly as
most people thought Sullivan
invincible. Corbett went to New
York, and there, in a music-hall
patronised by sporty men, raised
the entire sum in one evening.
Can you imagine [asked Corbett,
back in 1925] a man walking into a
theatre today and digging up from
people he had never even met before
a sum of money which would be
equal now to $lOO,OOO, just to back
him to meet Jack Dempsey, and all
figuring that the nervy stranger
didn’t have a chance?
Well, no. Translating it into
£A, 1954, is beyond me, but I
have a vivid impression of the
coolness a young stranger would
have encountered if he had, Say,
strolled into Sydney Tivoli a few
months back and wandered
round the seats inviting people to
back him for a few thousand to
beat Jimmy Carruthers.
The modern picture of
Sullivan as “stout, sluggish,
heavy of foot, always standing in
one place, and equipped only
with a right-hand swing” is,
Corbett says, false. It was “more
nearly but never quite true” of
Sullivan in his last years in the
ring. Against this, “a man of 26,
about sft. weighing two-
hundred pounds or so stripped,
and perfectly built. . . light legs,
wonderful neck and shoulders —
not too heavy—quick on his feet
and a terrific hitter with both
hands.” Sullivan as Corbett first
saw him, when Corbett was 15.
A fair comparison would be with
Jack Dempsey: “What a great
slugging match if they could have
been matched, each one in his
prime! ”
When Corbett was 18, and a
promising amateur, Sullivan
came to San Francisco to fight
Paddy Ryan. It was a royal
progress. Corbett’s parents went
to see him train. “Mr. Sullivan
is a fine man,” Mrs. Corbett told
her children. “Yes, and he shook
hands with us!” But, all the
same, the Corbetts thought
prizefighting a low sport, and
strenuously opposed their son
taking it up as a profession.
In Chicago, before the Jackson
fight, Corbett met Sullivan
socially for the first time. It was
arranged with a certain style.
Corbett sent a messenger-boy
round to the theatre where
Sullivan was appearing with
money and a note requesting a
private box. Back came ticket
and money and the information
that Mr. Sullivan would be
.pleased if Mr. Corbett would be
his guest.
After the first act Corbett was
invited into Sullivan’s dressing-
room, where he found the great
man killing time with a bottle of
whisky and an audience.
Sullivan was friendly, but nearly
broke his hand, and Corbett
formed the impression that the
champion was trying to intimi-
date him. Probably thinking
(Corbett thought), here is a
young fellow coming on; some
day I may have to fight him; I
may as well throw the fear of
John L. Sullivan into him now.
+ +
Sullivan offered him a whisky,
Corbett said no, thank you, he
didn’t drink, and “Sullivan
growled something pretty
scornful.” After the show
Sullivan took Corbett on a tour
of the saloons. Sullivan’s habit
of ordering drinks for the house,
then banging his fist on the bar
and growling “I can lick any
in the world! ” began to get
on Corbett’s nerves. That, after
all, is the private conviction of
most fighters—the convention
that keeps them going. It was
certainly James J. Corbett’s
opinion of himself. In San
Francisco a newspaper-editor had
printed a prediction that he
would be the next champion. He
was being made to look a fool,
dragged in Sullivan’s triumphant
wake.
He begged to be excused, but
Sullivan wouldn’t hear of it. In
particular he didn’t want to be
forced to listen to that odious
boast at Hogan’s, where
Chicago’s sporting elite gathered.
But Sullivan swept him into
Hogan’s and there, sure enough,
the mighty fist came banging
down, the declaration of faith
was made. Corbett decided to
resent it:
I looked him right in the eye and
said: “Mr. Sullivan, you have made
that remark several times in my
presence this evening. You are the
champion of the world, and every*
one is supposed to think that you
can whip any in the world.
But I am In the same profession as
yourself and it’s hardly courteous,
and I don’t want you to make that
remark in my presence again!”
Sullivan, Corbett remarks
somewhere, had a “wicked eye.”
Corbett endured it while the dis-
tinguished sporting gentlemen—
Pinkerton, the detective; Mc-
Donald the “big politician”;
Max Blumenthal and Abe Levy
—held their breaths. Then he
put his arm round Corbett and
said, “Aw, come and have a
drink!” There was no doubt
about Sullivan’s charm.
Sullivan passed through San
Francisco on his way to Aus-
tralia. San Francisco was
Corbett’s home-town and, after
his fight with Peter Jackson a few
weeks before, he was very
popular. He arrived at the
theatre late, when Sullivan was
on the stage, and, as he went into
his private box, the crowd
cheered Corbett! Sullivan was
not amused. Sullivan was asked
to box a few exhibition rounds
with Corbett, and agreed, but
insisted they wear dress-suits.
Corbett felt slighted.
For the exhibition Corbett
abandoned his dancing style and
swapped punches with Sullivan
in order “to get a line on his most
dangerous attack.” After some
minutes of this Sullivan, who was
fat and out of condition, dropped
his hands and stuck out his jaw,
to give the impression he was
allowing Corbett to hit him.
Quick as a flash, Corbett dropped
his hands and stuck out his jaw.
Sullivan was annoyed.
Afterwards, when Sullivan
threw his cigars into the sea,
Corbett was surprised. Then he
was pleased. The great man was
taking him seriously.
Corbett devoted a lot of
(Continued on page 34)


TILLEY Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
m
m
m
m
; r
m
:
-
iss^sge
v; -
ii.
m
av.
While Import re-
strictions remain
yon may have
difficulty in ob-
taining: TILLEI
products.
T l^ is GILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic—only 1| pints of Kero for
iJSTvWr* 13 s . a f?~~ lt cannot spill—it is a quality job.
bom:! WHyliouZwf* “ ***** to "*
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN ”)
The "FARMERS' BOY" fw N ’ S P £
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
STEPPED-AXLB PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavv
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE. LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE. LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MU8551.
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND). LTD., 443 Adelaide St..
Brisbane. FA2631.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.'
'C
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £ | /1 6/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months
9/6
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £3/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques )
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GENEVA POSTSCRIPT
Reviewing the Geneva Confer-
ence, London “Economist” notes
that the Russians, “in their
refusal to accept neutral and
Asian supervision of the truce for
which Mr. Eden was working, as
in their attitude to elections in
Korea, showed once again that
they despise and distrust
impartial judgment and interna-
tional control, unless these are
certain to work in their favor.
“As for the Chinese they have
offered Britain a little trade, a
little civility, the equivalent in
diplomacy of a tip for attention
shown. But for the French there
was nothing but blackmail, and
for the Americans nothing but
abuse.
“None the less, Mr. Eden was
right to see what he could do Dy
patience and mediation. In the
Asian countries of the Common-
wealth there is now a better, if
reluctant, understanding of the
threat in Indo-China and of what
may be done to contain it. In
the United States there has been
tirpe to reflect and to begin to
distinguish bluff from genuine
intention.
“In Britain public opinion has
had a six weeks’ refresher course
in the facts of international life,
this time not in the Sudetenland
but in far more distant and
obscure Vietnam. Conscience
about ‘colonialism’ would have
made cowards 'of many if they
had not been shown once again
the risks of giving way to men
who had won their own power
by force and seek to extend it
by threats.
“The strategy of British policy
during these past six weeks has
been right beyond much doubt,
and even though it failed ; but it
is also true that the tactics were
far too gentlemanly. By assum-
ing the role of mediator Mr.
Eden may have cast doubts on
his own Government’s purpose,
and obscured its own vital
interest —for Britain has very
vital interests in South-East Asia.
By insisting on negotiating first
and planning resistance second
he may have weakened instead
of strengthened the prospects of
compromise at Geneva. But that
is the worst that can be said, and
even that is not certain.
“The Geneva meeting,” con-
tinues “The Economist,” “was
not intended to find ways by
which the Americans could be
induced to admit China to the
United Nations; it was not
expected by any reasonable
person to produce an Asian
London “Daily Mirror”
FRENCH STEW
settlement. It was simply hoped
to take a further step towards
the pacification—and if possible
the unification —of Korea, and
to see whether the great Powers
could bring about a truce in the
Indo-Chinese war.
“Had it been possible to make
real progress over Korea and
Indo-China there would have
been some hope of later and
wider negotiations about the Far
East as a whole. It was this
hope, the hope of creating some
confidence by limited agreement,
that Mr. Eden was pursuing.
Had he succeeded, British policy
would, for the moment, have
looked right and American policy
would have looked wrong. But
instead the Communists, whether
deliberately or not, have made
it appear that Mr. Dulles’s
suspicions— to say nothing of his
methods —were right and that
Mr, Eden’s hopes were wrong.
If it is Communist strategy to
divide the United States and
Britain, a most promising oppor-
tunity has been bungled.
“The Communists are now
trying to retrieve the situation.
They may make it possible for
the talks between French and
Vietminh military delegations to
make some progress. But Anglo-
American consultation cannot
wait on such uncertainties. The
next step to be taken is clear:
policy will have to be concerted
for defending the free world’s
vital interests in South-East Asia.
And that means that somewhere
across South-East Asia a line
will have to be drawn beyond
which further infiltration and
aggressipn will be resisted with-
out reserve.
“If we want to be sure that
others will help to defend what
we consider vital —Malaya is not
very far away—we must also
pledge ourselves. And a treaty
of mutual obligation is of little
value without agreement about
the forces to be furnished and
the places where they will be
held ready.
“Thereby two useful results
will be ensured. First, the Com-
munists will have been given fair
warning, as they were not either
in Korea or in Indo-China;
secondly, the Governments with
interests to defend in South-East
Asia will be able, in case of
aggression, to put to their Parlia-
ments the simple question: Do
we or do we not honor out
pledge?
“Whether it is possible to
create, with the support of free
Asian Governments, * a treaty
organisation like Nato has not
yet been revealed; the question
may not even have been put. It
may be necessary to proceed as
was done seven years ago in
Europe; to organise first the
nations in immediate danger—
Siam, Laos and Cambodia,
Malaya—and then gradually to
bring in the nations on the
periphery.
“Where the line in South-East
Asia is to be drawn is for states-
men and their military advisers
to decide. It would be as
dangerous to guarantee a line
that is militarily indefensible as
it would be to choose a military
line that has no political stability
behind it. For these reasons, and
for these reasons only, some-
ground may have to be given in
Indo-China.i
“But any decision to cut losses
must be seen for what it is, in
Asia no less than in the western
world. It will mean that another
small slice of humanity has been
allowed to fall under cruel and
intolerant rule. It will mean for
hundreds of thousands of people
who have worked with France
and its friends exile, denuncia-
tion, the concentration-camp and
death.
“Even those in Asia who
would feel no disgust or shame
at such an outcome would none
the less murmur to themselves
that it is not safe to be friends
with the West and the white
men, that sooner or later the
Communists will come. This, it
is true, is not the view that Mr
Eden hears from Mr. Nehru,
who is appeasement personified ;
but it is the view that he will
soon hear from Malaya, from
Burma and from Siam.”
U.S. Foreign Aid
Including an estimated $6lOO
p million for 1954, Uncle Sam has
paid out $52,348 million in nine
years in the way of grants and
loans for foreign aid for military
and economic purposes. Hence
it is perhaps 'surprising that U.S.
papers do not give more space to
agonised correspondence from
“Indignant Taxpayers,” and less
to comparatively calm estimates
of further thousands of millions
of dollars still to be loaned or
given in the interests of the free
world.
Although the amounts of
foreign aid have not varied a
great deal over the nine years—
by more than a couple of
thousand million dollars, that is
—the proportions allocated for
military and economic purposes
have practically reversed them-
selves. A “U.S. News and World
Report” analysis shows that, in
1946, the economic quota was
$5701 million and the military
$69 million ; by 1952 the propor-
tions were about equal; and in
the 1954 estimate $l6OO million
goes for economic ends and
$4500 million for purposes
military.
Foreign aid, adds “U.S. News
and World Report,” “is regarded
as a major weapon that can’t be
dropped, a weapon that both
sides—Communists and our-
selves —are wielding vigorously.
Dollars for aid abroad are also
a prop for business, not as big
as the defence programme but
otherwise similar. A market for
weapons, ammunition and
supplies such as jet-fuel,
machinery, metal, fertiliser and
farm products is involved.
“Aid last year cost $7OOO
million. This year it is likely to
come to $6lOO million and figures
in the new bill suggest that, a
few years hence, the programme
will be running at between $3OOO
and $4OOO million a year. But
that doesn’t take into account
all the new demands for help now
being shaped.”
Some of the items for which
Uncle Sam is digging deep into
his pocket are; Indo-China (cost
of the fighting and help to the
Vietnamese), Korea (relief and
rebuilding and support for the
army), Japan (cost of an air
force and navy and support for
. them after they are established)
and aid to India, Turkey’
Pakistan and other Moslem
countries. Also, “aid is being
used to keep a balance-of-power
between the Arabs and Israel—a
policy that is implied instead of
being stated openly.”
In Europe, although expenses
drop there as they mount in the
Far East, a lot of dollars are
needed to keep European forces
up-to-date and supplied, and
West Germany, although “in a
better position than her neighbors
to pay for her defence needs,”
will probably expect and get
considerable help when rearma-
ment there becomes a reality.
Commenting on the European
scene, “New York Times”
correspondent Michael L. Hoff-
man adds that the Marshall Plan
for aiding European recovery
was supposed to end in mid-19 52
and, with it, all “exceptional”
U.S. economic aid would cease;
and, although they complained,
European countries took it that
the handouts were finished.
In 1951, however, the Marshall
Plan became the Mutual Security
Programme and the aid con-
tinued. The rigid principle under
the Democratic Administration
was that the dollars were for aid
and not to build up reserves, but,
“had this principle been waived
in 1951 a great deal of money
might have been saved the U.S.
taxpayer and European central
banks might not have had such
comfortably rising reserves.
“In 1951 Europe would gladly
have settled for a wind-up of the
Marshall Plan bv means of a
$2,000,000,000 to $3,000,000,000
lump grant to provide a cushion
against future dollar shortages.
Indeed, many European and
American economists recom-
mended such a move.”
Instead, the correspondent
concludes, Uncle Sam stuck to
his “project” and “programme”
system of giving funds for
specific, justifiable purposes and,
with the Korean crisis and sub-
sequent rearmament, a whole
heap of new justifications became
possible and were used.


Teach your wife
fo be a widow '
Chances are she knows little
about your business affairs, in-
vestments, debts, yet the whole
Problem may suddenly be
dumped in her lap.
Read in July Reader's Digest
what you can do now to help
your wife against such a day—
Plus some simple advice on in-
surance, wills, death duties,
mortgages, bank accounts, etc.
Plus a 22-page book conden-
sation “Of Whales and Men,”
e story of dangerous and ad-
enturous living amidst the
P£ ast . s and birds of the Antarc-
■ Also many other stimulat-
ng articles of lasting interest
cludmg-Eiffei and his tower,”
Problem of infertility” and
Are you a Skid-Talker?” July
Reader’s Digest only 1/6 at
newsagents and bookstalls.
m
1
r '
Charles ritchie was a man who knew what
he wanted. When he was directing the con-
struction of the first pipeline in Persia, 1911,
he decided that a ’plane would be useful for
field survey work.
Without more ado he wrote home, ‘Please
send me the best machine available —and
don’t forget to enclose instructions on how to
fly.’ This was only eighteen months after
Bleriot had flown the English Channel, and
the nearest that Ritchie had been to an aircraft
was as a spectator at an air display!
The ’plane, a Bleriot monoplane with 50 h.p.
Gnome rotary engine, duly arrived, flew . . .
and crashed. Obviously the instructions were
inadequate! But the event nevertheless
“Please send a ’plane....
with instructions how to fly”
AVIATION
sdf
marked the beginning of a new era, and the
beginning of fruitful association between
AIOC and flying.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co, Ltd
Thus Europe got far more as
addition to reserves in the
“ two years than it would
have dared hope for and,
although the U.S. aid policy has
been specifically designed not to
add to Europe’s reserves, these
have increased by nearly
$4OOO million.
And “whatever may happen
next the nearly $4OOO million
that have been added to Europe's
reserves as a result of the last
two years’ ebb-ancf-flow of dollar
navments are the biggest single
factor making the Western
European financial picture look
much better than it was
expected, only a few years ago,
to be in mid-1954.”
Lobbying
Lobbying, popularly regarded
as a somewhat sinister occupa-
tion, is, as “N. Y. Times”
correspondent John D. Morris
puts it, “recognised by Congress
and students of government as a
highly desirable if not essential
adjunct of the legislative process
—provided it is kept in the open.”
Lobbyists stake their claim to
influence legislation on Article 1
of the U.S. Constitution which
permits people “to petition the
Government for a redress of
grievances,” and about 30 States
have 'recognised that right and
regulate lobbying activities by
Jaw. A similar law was enacted
by Congress in 1946 requiring
any person “who shall engage
himself for pay or any other con-
sideration” to influence legisla-
tion to register with the House
or Senate, and furnish a financial
accounting.
Since then 2300 individuals
and 226 organisations have regis-
tered and, in 1953, lobbyists
reported that they spent
$4,353,980. According to figures
for the first three quarters of that
year, some of the big spenders
on lobbying were business
interests, $1,374,000; farm,
$394,000 ; labor, $336,000 ; pro-
fessional, $196,000; real-estate,
$137,000; ex - servicemen,
$117,000.
“Today,” the “N. Y. Times”
correspondent continues, “the
most effective lobbies spend com-
paratively little money on direct
comiqunication with Congress
through paid agents. Instead,
they put primary emphasis on
campaigns to stir the ‘grass roots’
into action.
“This is done, to a large
extent, by country-wide dis-
semination of propaganda
through newspapers, magazines,
books, radio and television.
Some of it is camouflaged as
‘facts,’ presented as a public
service. Some, in the form of
newspaper advertisements and
television or radio commercials,
is frankly one-sided.
“Local civic, business or labor
leaders are persuaded to go to
work on Representatives and
Senators, Mass letter-writing
campaigns are devised. Local
delegations are formed to go to
Washington and buttonhole
legislators.
“Hie aim is to put across a
particular point of view to the
voters so successfully that they
will voluntarily exercise their
Constitutional right of petition
to Congress.
“The American Medical
Association, for one, has proved
itself a master of the art of
indiiect lobbying. Protests from
physicians throughout the
country induced the House Ways
and Means Committee to reverse
itself in less than a week on a
decision to bring medical doctors
under the Social Security insur-
ance system,”
Korea Lesson
The South Korean Govern-
ment’s attempts to recall free-
world interest in the unfinished
Korean business is, as the Detroit
(U.S.A.) “News” puts it, “a
timely 'reminder of the real
dimensions of America’s problem
in Asia”:
“The notion which seems to be
gaining some favor in Congress
that we [America] might contri-
bute some Naval and Air" Force
units to the fight for Indo-China
is not only a delusion from a
military point of view. It betrays
a total failure to face the real
challenge of Communism in the
Far East. i
“Suppose we were to intervene
and suppose our intervention*
were sufficient to halt the attack
on the Red River Delta, so far
saving the military situation that
the Communists might be dis-
posed seriously to negotiate
another truce. That would be
only a first step which would
finally be useless unless we are
prepared to go much further.
“South Korea suggests how
long is the road ahead. Seoul’s
Defence Minister calculates that
his country’s army must be built
up from the present 20 divisions
to 25, must have a modern Air
Force and a Navy capable of
patrolling Korean waters.
“It should be perfectly
apparent that America has
neither troops nor money
enough to undertake to put out
the fires of aggression in Asia
one by one as they occur. The
only possible answer to security
in Asia is the old one—that
aggression must be discouraged
before it occurs.
“The Administration proposal
of a South-East Asia defence
pact is the beginning of such a
solution, but it will mean nothing
unless backed by the resolve of
the free world. So long as we
are more obviously concerned
with avoiding a fight than with
establishing a strong defence,
we will have neither peace nor
security. That was and is the
lesson of the Korean war, both
in its bold beginning and its
pathetic finish.”
The Vickers 1000
Britain’s new long-range, high-
speed jet transport, as described
by the Secretary of State for Air,
Lord De LTsle and Dudley, and
reported by London “Times”:
“This aircraft [the Vickers
1000] has been designed to meet
the special needs of military
transportation. It will have four
Rolls-Royce Conway engines
incorporating the by - pass
principle which gives fuel
economy and great thrust.
“With its high capacity it could
carry 120 troops with their
personal arms and equipment
over stages up to 2500 miles. Its
primary role would be the long-
range strategic movement of
Cummings in London "Daily Express ”
PEKING VISIT
“M’m. .. One Western barbarian —but who is the inscrutable Chinese gentleman behind?”
troops, but it could also be used
for freighting because it is
equipped with an internal lift
and other special arrangements
for loading and carrying military
equipment.
“It will give the strategic
reserve the speed and mobility
which are essential. Five of these
aircraft could, for example,
carry a battalion of infantry to
Kenya within 18 hours,”
Dragnet Digest
Labor Visit to Red China. —
British Opposition-leader Attlee,
who is to head the party of eight
Labor members visiting Red
China this year, defending the
visit in London “News
Chronicle”: “We want, if we
can, to see how we can make
friends in this great community
and to gain the goodwill of its
leaders.” Commenting in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” David Law-
rence notes that “never in the
heyday of his assertion of Con-
gressional powers has even a
certain Wisconsin Senator
[McCarthy] ever suggested that
he or his associates go abroad
to deal directly with a foreign
Government.”
France and Indo-China. —By
a “U.S. News and World Report”
survey, “the French people don’t
want Americans to fight in Indo-
China, They want peace—not
involvement in a big war that
might even bring war back to
Europe. And the surest way to
get peace, they feel, is to con-
vince the Communists that a
bigger war with the West is the
only alternative.”
China Status. —One of the
Communist aims at Geneva was
to gain international recognition
for Red China and its admission
to United Nations; the clearly-
stated American policy at the
same conference was direct
opposition to both ambitions.
Assessed by “N. Y. Times” cor-
respondent Thomas J. Hamilton,
however, “the conference has
very clearly increased the stature
of Communist China in Western
Europe and elsewhere. The
Peking Government has now
made good its claim to be the
fifth great Power —a claim that
is backed by military power far
exceeding that exercised by
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek
in his most successful days,”
Soviet Weakness. Without
discounting the Soviet’s military
strength, “N. Y. Times” corres-
pondent C. L. Sulzberger qualifies
it with the Soviet’s paramount
weakness: The Russians, he
notes, have been subjected to
dictatorships in one form or
another - for centuries, and
history has proven that “in the
end, no people can come into its
eventual heritage within such
shackles.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Australian Dream
E, J. Donath, Senior Tutor in Economic
Geography at the University of Mel-
bourne, has said in a Melbourne “Argus
article that Australia’s scarcity of water
severely limits our future and that we
can never have a population of more
than 45,000,000.
Well, with that figure we could, in our
strategic position, develop the continent
and defend it against all-comers. All the
same, it is a big advance on the mid-
’thirties, when the experts were saying
that we had almost reached the limit of
our resources and at the very best could
not hope to carry a population of more
than 15,000,000 or so.
For years Australia has been the butt
of experts, both overseas and local. Mr.
Donath quotes a British one who says
29,000,000 is our limit. (You would think
he would allow us the bare 30,000,000 —
but no, 29,000,000 is his bid.) Then there
were those who, before the last war,
maintained that twe should give the
Northern Territory to the Japs. It was
useless to us, they assured us. Now the
N.T. has been discovered to be stuffed
full with uranium and other minerals ; in
fact, our whole economic future may
depend on it.
The truth is, of course, that no expert
knows the full extent of Australia’s pos-
sibilities. The estimate is being revised
year by year as science advances and
fresh developments and discoveries occur
here. Naturally, an expert must deal
with the facts as they are at the moment;
he disdains the fantasies of the ordinary
man as wishful-thinking. However, it is
the ordinary man’s dreams that inspire a
nation and generate the spiritual power
to build it.
The experts of the day told the United
States after it had won independence that
it could never hope to develop the con-
tinent from coast to coast because there
was no way of linking up such a vast
territory with adequate communications.
The United States, therefore, would
always remain a small group of States
huddled on the eastern seaboard. They
would have condemned as wildly vision-
ary any prediction that before long a
means of transport would be evolved that
would develop all North America within
a couple of generations and enable great
herds of cattle to be run far inland and
carried quickly over hundreds of miles
“There can be only one possible criticism of this design—horses eat it."
to the centres of population. Yet the
railways came and swiftly carried the U.S.
to world power.
Now we face an era when a new power
—atomic energy—is being developed,
uranium, the fuel for this power, we pos-
sess in abundance. How can we tell what
atomic power will do for Australia?
Ordinary men still have the great Aus-
tralian dream and will go on working
towards it without heeding the experts. —
Mabsout (Vic.).
Lawrence Hargrave
A small landing-ground near Warwick
Farm racecourse (N.S.W.) was named
Hargrave Park, but during the war it
became an Army camp and later H.M.S.
Golden Hind, a British naval establish-
ment.
When the war ended the buildings were
converted into a housing settlement.
Though still called Hargrave Park, the
place today is hardly a fitting tribute to
Lawrence Hargrave, after whom the little
aerodrome was originally named. It is
unlikely that the place will ever again
be associated with aviation, so something
should be done to name one of the
important aerodromes in this country
after the man who did so much for
aviation.
There is a monument to Hargrave’s
memory overlooking Stanwell Park,
where he conducted many of his experi-
ments, and a brass tablet marks the home
in which he lived at Darling Point, but
surely one of our major aerodromes
should be named after him. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Prance, Past and Present
The history of France can be said to
have begun with the invasion of Gaul by
Julius Caesar (first century b.c.). But it
wasn’t till the Franks settled there in the
fifth century a.d. that France became a
power in the world.
The Frankish realm had a strength and
permanence that was lacking in other
parts of Europe. Charlemagne (reigned
768-814) was the practical overlord of
Europe through the greater part of his
reign. His power was recognised, too, in
the East; the Moor trembled at his name.
Then, for a couple of hundred years
after Charlemagne’s death, France’s
fortunes declined. Under weak kings she
was rent asunder by the constant rebellion
of the barons and margraves, and ravaged
by the attacks of the Northmen, including
the terrible siege of 886.
Things began to improve again around
the beginning of the 12th century. Then
Philip Augustus (reigned 1180-1223),
probably the greatest of the Capetian
monarchs, made France once more a
power in Europe. Among other things he
attacked John (of England) and deprived
him of Normandy, Maine and other
English provinces in France. At his death
he had increased the royal domain three-
fold and destroyed its principal enemies.
With the extinction of the Capetians
and the coming to power of the house of
Valois in 1328, France again slid down-
hill. The Hundred Years’ War which
followed saw the ending of France’s
dominance of European affairs, and
caused her great material damage and
loss of territory.
But France rose again. The reign of
Francis I (1515-47), the brilliant monarch
who made up, with Henry VIII of Eng-
land and the Holy Roman Emperor
Charles V, the “Big Three” of the 16th
century, is very important. It marks,
among other things, the re-establishment
of French military prestige.
For, from the time of Francis till
Waterloo (1815), France was the greatest
individual military Power in Europe.
Cardinal Richelieu, who directed French
policy from 1624 to 1642, strengthened the
position of the Crown at home and made
France feared abroad. Louis XIV, in his
73-year reign (1642-1715), despite some
bad mistakes in his foreign policy, kept
France pre-eminent.
The Revolution and all its bloodshed
did not stay her, and under Napoleon
France reached its greatest heights ;
hegemony over practically the whole of
continental Europe. But, since Waterloo,
France has been on the skids.
In 1870-71, after the third Napoleon
had tried in vain to restore the glories
“Fancy an old coot like you having a lovely daughter like Anne."
of France, the French went down to
Prussians in the first round. In 1914-18
France was kept on her feet almost solely
by her stronger Allies. (Admittedly, for
a while after World War I France was
able to dominate Europe again, but it was
only by means of artificial props which
collapsed at the first ill-wind.) And in
1940 she was again down in the first round
or so.
Today once-mighty France is “the sick
man of Europe.” All America’s efforts in
recent years, by military and economic
aid, seem to have failed to do any good.
Economically France is in a bad way.
Her share of world industrial output is
steadily declining. Grave difficulties face
her agriculture. She is being gradually
shouldered out of world markets by more
virile competitors. Her national finances
are in a truly parlous state. She is rent
internally by Communism.
Whatever the final outcome in Indo-
China, French power and influence are
certainly at an end there. Her African
colonies are hotbeds of unrest and
rebellion. With all this she is obstinately
refusing to ratify the European Defence
Treaty,
France may be only temporarily down,
but it is well for the free world to realise
that at the moment she is down. Britain
and America may shortly have to choose
between France and Germany in building-
up the Western bulwark against Com-
munism. If they do, there seems only one
possible answer,— Maros (W.A.).
Taxation and Cricket
Back in 1951 Bruce Dooland, the
South Australian cricketer who went to
,East Lancashire as a cricket pro., was
stung by the English taxation people for
tax on £S4B 15s. This sum was collected
by Dooland under Lancashire League
rules, which allow a cricketer —amateur
or pro. —who performs some feat at a
match (say, making 50 runs) to take his
cap round the crowd. Dooland had to
make 11 such journeys to collect the sum.
The Crown held the money was profit
from employment; Dooland won on the
ground that it was money given as a
“testimonial to his abilities.”
The* Crown appealed and when the
appeal came before Mr. Justice Harman,
in Chancery, about a month ago, he was
scornful in dismissing it, saying that he
had listened with a patience which had
worn thin, as the hours succeeded one
another, to a nice exercise in dialectics
by counsel on both sides.
“What was the subject-matter on which
they had spent so much forensic skill?
—£2o. The Crown came here by leading
counsel to assure to itself the right to
strike from the income-tax return of a
professional cricketer the sum of be-
tween forty and fifty pounds which he
picked up in the 195} cricket season
while serving with the East Lancashire
Cricket Club. He had noticed with som e
dismay what he hoped was not a tend-
ency on the part of the Crown to
devote time to the catching of a sprat
while the mackerel swam free in the
ocean. It would be more profitable to
the general body of taxpayers if the
activities were investigated of those
gentry who, to the wrath of law-abiding
citizens, appeared to pay less tax than
they ought.
“The Crown relied on its allegation
that these collections were really part of
Mr.' Dooland’s remuneration to which
he was entitled under his contract and
therefore, contended the Crown, cadit
qucestio. If that was so, then the Crown
would be home, but he (his Lordship)
did not think that it was so.
“Under the extraordinary rules of the
Lancashire Cricket League, anyone who
performed ‘feats’ within the rules was
entitled to have a collection made. ‘Any-
one’ included the amateur batsman, who,
if he made 50 runs, was entitled to take
his cap round the crowd and say; ‘What
a good batsman am I.’ How that
affected his status was not for him [his
Lordship] to say. They knew how to do
those things in Lancashire. It did not
seem right to say that they were rooted
in contract.
“The commissioners were eminently
entitled to come to the conclusion to
which they came, if they thought fit.
Why should he [his Lordship] disturb
their finding? He did not propose to
do so, and he regretted that it had ever
been thought fit to bring the matter
further. The appeal would be dismissed.”
But that was not the end of it. In
vicarages and parishes throughout Eng-
land some deep thinking went on, and,
after a silence of about 20 days, there
has come a polite chorus insisting
that Easter Day collections in parish
churches, which are usually given to the
vicar, shall be free of tax. If this comes
to court for decision it will be interesting
to discover what particular feats a vicar
may claim will entitle him to keep all
the money as “a testimonial to his
abilities.”—C, S. (England).
Drift to the Country?
Despite the continual cry of “Stop the
drift to the city,” that “drift” has been
non-existent for 20 years. It stopped
somewhere around 1933 and since then
the country population "has been increas-
ing at a greater rate than that of the cities.
The confused thought that a rapid in-
crease in Sydney’s population represented
a corresponding decrease in the country s
gave rise to the fiction that the city I s
depopulating the country.
The drift to the city is not new. I n
1874 Dr. John Dunmore Lang was deplor-
ing the preponderance of Sydney’s popu-
lation :
Who ever heard, in any other part of the
world, of upwards of one-fourth of the entire
population of a country being pent up i«
the capital of that country—in a country,
too, without manufactures for the employ-
ment of the concentrated population.
By 1933 practically one-half the people
in N. S. Wales lived in Sydney. Between
1921 and 1933 the population of Sydney
increased by 37 per cent, against an in-
crease of 27 per cent, in the country-
From 1933 to 1947 the increases were
city, 20 per cent., and country, 2H P® r
cent. Figures for 1947-54 will not b®
available until the latest census results
are published, but the electoral figures


tbis year show an in c « ase in £avor o£
r/nuntrv at the rate of 3.1.
Although census-figures are needed for
* ™tion it is reasonable to assume
S the increases are provincial rather
u n rural It is hard to see how it could
Otherwise. There is very little oppor-
tunity any substantial growth of rural
could spread a few
more people around the countryside But
doser-settlement agitation-like ttie drift-
fn the-city cry—has little point today.
S’nst areas suitable for closer-settlement
have already been cut up; those that
haven’t would hardly show in any increase
percentage figures. Nor have the rural
industries ever been great employers of
labor. Today they are employing even
less •
It is the country town that is growing.
Because the growth is widespread it is not
as noticeable as a similar growth in the
city would be. A sudden rise of 50,000
in Sydney’s population would markedly
increase the chaos that already exists,
50 000 spread from the Queensland to the
Victorian border would average less than
500 in the decent-sized towns. Eighteen
country electorates have shown an in-
crease in voters, yet the average per elec-
torate is less than 2000.
Starting in the depression days when
the out-of-works preferred the dole in
the country to the dole in the city, the
movement to the country has continued
without a break. The decentralisation of
industry has been the largest contributing
factor although many migrants have
helped to swell the country population.
The greatest economic change in the
country has been the establishment of
many industries in the country towns. In
1936 in one particular country town the
ratio of eligible youths to available
apprenticeships was approximately 75:1.
Those who wanted to leave the ranks of
the unskilled had to turn to the city. The
new industries are helping to level this
ratio, but unfortunately this decentralisa-
tion of industry is by no means complete
and appears to have stopped for the time
being. It is to be hoped that it is only
temporary, otherwise the drift to the city
will begin again.
It would be of greater significance if
the movement of population to the coun-
try was actually a movement from the
city. Up to now that has not been so ;
while country areas are growing, so is
Sydney. The transfer of industries,
economically important as it is, will not
be really effective until the political
and commercial power of Sydney is
lessened.
That calls for a costly development
scheme that is most unlikely under the
present State set-up. It would involve
new ports along the coast and direct rail-
communication with the hinterland. No
city-controlled legislature is likely to
begin such an undertaking nor is it likely
to hand away any of its power by the
establishment of new States or regional
councils with the power to do such works.
Yet any large-scale movement from
Sydney to the country is going to benefit
the State as a whole, and most particularly
will it benefit Sydney.— Rann (N.S.W.).
The Communist Vote
One disturbing fact which emerges
from an analysis of the Federal-election
results is the number of votes polled by
Communist candidates. With 42 candi-
dates in the field the Communist party
secured approximately 55,000 votes,
representing 1.4 per cent, of the formal
votes cast. The percentage would cer-
"And what’s more. I’ll report you to the management.”
tainly have been higher had the Commun-
ist party contested every electorate; 3
per cent., or 100,000 votes, , seems a
reasonable estimate.
j n a bid to achieve their ends, Com-
munist leaders may well start World War
111, and Australia would be in the con-
flict. With anything like 100,000 Com-
munist sympathisers in this country, Aus-
tralia’s efforts to survive would be
“ He’s all right , constable — I’m drawing his portrait."
grievously endangered. Even if the war
should not come to these shores, Com-
munists could play havoc with the war
effort and essential production. If war
should come here. Communist embarrass-
ment would be terrific; five divisions of
traitors behind the front line could prove
disastrous.
The Federal Government would do well
to take a careful look at the Communist
vote at the Federal election. It might be
worth asking the Australian people again
for the power to outlaw Communism.
D. J. K. (Q.).
The Koombana
So far Fv© been prepared to believe
that “W.J.W.’s” old sea-captain actually
found the Koombana, but now it appears
that all he found was an acre or two
of straw envelopes (B. 5/5/’54). This
raises some interesting points.
First, how far and how fast, in those
waters where local currents flow so
swiftly and where at the time terrific
winds were raging, would straw envelopes
drift? Second, why should it be so
quickly decided that they came from
the Koombana? Her deck-cargo was
empty bottles. Has “WJ.W.” ever seen
empty bottles shipped packed in straw
from nor’-west ports?
Third, granting that the bottles were
packed that way, would acres of the
stuff escape from the cases? Not more
than ten per cent, would be smashed
when the ship turned over. I’ve seen
some, odd things at sea, including hun-
dreds of boxes and empty oil-drums
floating in a jumbled mass. Nobody
jumped to the conclusion that a sunken
ship lay beneath them. My bet is that
the envelopes were dumped off the Port
Hedland jetty by the local garbage-man
and went to sea with the tide
Fourth, and perhaps most important,
why did the captain, having decided that
he knew the Koombana’s temporary
resting-place, fail k) report his find
immediately? The cyclone was over,
and every ship in the area and some
beyond it searched carefully for a fort-
night after the ship was posted missing.
Interest in her fate ran high all through
Westralia. Every faint hope, every slight
chance of finding her was reported and
published. I’ve read every word of it,
from the first speculation until the in-
cident disappeared from the newspapers,
but nowhere is there a mention of straw
envelopes.
The Gorgon found a state-room door
and a lot of ship wreckage north of
JBedout Island; the Minderoo picked up
a state-room settee and other ship’s gear,
including the bottom boards of a boat,
also north of Bedout; and all of it was
definitely identified as belonging to the
lost ship. It seems extraordinary that
if her “position was established beyond
reasonable doubt” the finder should make
no report to the proper authorities.
The Koombana was a fine ship. She
was 30ft. deep, with a lower mast of 70ft.
and a topmast of 20ft.—120ft. from truck
to keelson. The ocean depths about 80
miles west of Bedout Island are 16, 17
and 18 fathoms. With “acres” of straw
envelopes to mark her position, surely a
sea-captain would see the masthead either
out of the water or just below the sur-
face? That’s if she wasn’t caught in a
deep submarine valley, as I have sug-
gested earlier.
But that doesn’t solve “W.J.W.’s”
first suggestion —that she was carried to
the Antarctic. I have submitted this to
captains who know the nor’-west as well
as anybody ever could know it. Without
exception they have agreed that she is
probably buried under sand somewhere
along the coast. The lighthouse-tender
Cape Otway found a hulk at Browse
Island last year, then lost it again, buried
beneath the sand which shifts so quickly
in those swift-running tidal waters. —
V.J.H. (W.A.).
Grammar
“Virgil” (B. 23/6/’54) takes exception
to the use in some contributions of mine
to “The Advertiser” (Adelaide) of such
abbreviations as “he’s,” “don’t,” “won’t,’
“there’s.” st
It’s true that these expressions are col-
loquialisms,” but they are neither
“loose” nor, necessarily, “slipshod.”
They suit a modest conversational style
such as mine. I should be prepared to
take a small bet that “Virgil” uses them
himself, on occasion; at least 1 don t
remember meeting anybody who didnt.
They are certainly not “journalese.”
Nor is “journalese” a “synonym of
Burmese, Cingalese, Japanese, Chinese.
A synonym is a word which is different
in form from another word but has the
same, or approximately the same, mean-
ing. “Journalese” has the same suffix
as Burmese, etc. Was that what “Virgil”
was trying to say?
May I suggest that he acquire one of
the smaller dictionaries? The new
Chambers is my favorite, but perhaps
the Concise Oxford would suit him
better. It’s more austere.
Curiously enough, the genuine Virgil
suffered from somewhat similar criticism.
It is recorded that “a certain Numitorius”
asked “Is ‘cuium pecus’ Latin?” and
made answer unto himself, “No, but it
is the sort of stuff our poet from the
backblocks talks,” or words to that
effect.
.One other point. My “weekly contri-
bution” appears not in “The Sunday
Advertiser,” as “Virgil” says, but in “The
Advertiser” for Saturday.— C. R. Jury
(S.A.).
Contractions like “don’t” and “won’t”
are shortened for the sake of euphony ;
with “he’s” and “there’s,” the contraction
is merely elision because the two vowel-
sounds come together. The use of
“he’s” does away with the harsh glottal
stop. In France this type of elision is
the accepted rule, with the blessing of
the Academy on it. No one would think
of writing “je ai” in preference to “ j’ai
Journalese has nothing whatever to
do with such contractions. It is a term
of opprobrium conferred on the writing
of those who employ the trite and woolly
expressions which one finds in abundance
in the daily Press. “His condition is
described as satisfactory,” and “The
police are engaged in investigations,”
are journalese because they could have
been more clearly and more simply
written.
Still, there is some excuse for this
method of writing. The writer for the
daily Press is working under pressure and
is inclined to use expressions which fall
pat. He hasn’t time to* reconstruct his
sentences or to weigh each word. The
news section of the journals is ephemeral,
written in haste and read in haste, so,
although journalese is pot commendable,
its use is at least defensible. — Recla
(N.S.W.).
Goldmining
“Edx” (B. 16/6/’54) overlooks the
role played—and still being played—by
the mining industry in general, and gold-
mining in particular, in helping to popu-
late the huge and nearly empty expanse
of W.A. The present oil-uranium boom,
welcomed alike by the shrewd company-
promoter, investor and speculator, will at
least do some good in attracting people
to the empty places of the Common-
wealth.
Our legislators shout decentralisation
ad nauseam, but are doing very little
towards getting people to leave the mild
climate and the amenities of the coastal
belt. In all history, mining has been the
forerunner of the pastoral and agricul-
tural interests in opening up new lands.
The expected return from any assist-
ance to goldmining might seem dispropor-
tionate from the purely financial point of
view, but the intangible return cannot be
measured in terms of £.s.d.
About the prospector: If “Edx”
knows his back country and the interior
he should know'that the old type of
prospector (including “blokes like Arthur
Bayley”) is being replaced by men who,
individually, or collectively as small
syndicates, own their own truck —often a
four-wheel drive with a power take-pff
and their own mining-plant and -equip-
ment.
In many instances these men, usually
experienced, intelligent and anything but
“sissies,” regard the small kerosene-
refrigerator as important almost as the
roCk-drill. The days are gone when
“goat and galah” were a welcome addi-
tion to the interminable “bully beef.” The
old-time prospector did not need good
roads, but in these days of motor trans-
port passable roads are essential.
“Edx” states also that the price of
gold might go to $lOO an ounce in a few
years’ time. Why in a few years? The
arguments in favor of a rise in the price
of gold —a rise which logically should
have followed the extraordinary rise in
prices of other commodities —have been
put before the International Monetary
Fund so often, and- so often “knocked
back,” that it’s anybody’s guess as to
when the U.S. Government might aban-
don its position of sitting pretty with the
fixed price of gold.
In my opinion, the Government should
modify its attitude towards mining
on the following points:
The industry should, not be regarded
simply as a milch-cow to provide milk
and fend for itself.
The industry should not be compelled
to sell its products at a price fixed arbi-
trarily by the Government, such price
having no relationship to world prices.
The complete confiscation of a mine
when found should be met by adequate
compensation.
The Government should make allow-
ances for the wasting nature of the assets
of mining, which are unlike the repro-
ductive assets of most other primary
industries.
Outback people, because of their small
numbers and limited voting-capacity, get
a rough spin from their Governments.
Very little is done to offset the disadvan-
tages of heat, dust and flies, and the lack
of those amenities enjoyed by workers
in capital cities and large coastal towns.—*
Queue d’ Argent (W.A.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health, Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
sd
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.;
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.;
DARWIN;
Singapore :
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
■or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
MOBILE WORKSHOP TRUCK
Ideal for station mechanic. Thames 3 ton chassis (less than 500
miles) with steel panelled body; wood floor; large perspex window
in roof; quick-action, heavy-duty, folding steps; double doors give
40in. wide access; mounted with as new Armstrong Siddeley 14 H.P.
Diesel, direct-coupled to 9 K.Y.A., 3 phase 415 volt alternator,
complete with silencer, automatic voltage control, meters, switch
panel, etc.
Cab fitted with cross bubbles for levelling—steel levelling ramps
for 3 wheels.
Inside measurements of body, 7ft. wide, lift, long, 7ft. 4in. head
room. Registered until 29th January, 1955.
Just the thing for mounting lathe, welder, grinder, etc., for self-
contained mobile workshop.
This unit is as new, was made up to conduct experiment now
concluded.
Apply “WORKSHOP,” c/- BOX 906, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I ON INTERIOR
WALLS AND CEILINGS
When building your NEW HOME, use
"DURABESTOS" Flat Sheets for lining
internal walls and ceilings. Cover joints
neatly, quickly with "Anaglypta" cover
strip, then paint right over the strip the
same colour as the walls and ceiling—for
"Durabestos" lends itself admirably to
decoration with the many delightful pastel
paints available to-day.
FREE! Write to Wunderlich Limited, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for FREE Home Design
Booklet and sample of "Anaglypta."
URABESTOS
ASBESTOS;CEMENT.BUILDING. SHEETS
READILY AVAILABLE FROM
LOCAL DISTRIBUTORS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MAIZE TRENDS
AUSTRALIA has been quick
to follow some of the
advances which have been mads
in America in the production of
maize. The N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, for instance, had
hybrid-maize - of local breeding
for commercial use very soon
after that stage was reached in
America. Excellent organisation
and publicity spread recognition
of the clear superiority of certain
hybrids, which were adopted by
growers even faster than had
been the case in the U.S.
This prepared the way for
increased mechanisation in
harvesting. Higher yields per
acre, from certain hybrids, and
lowered cost of production
when mechanical-pickers are
used sensibly have, therefore,
contributed to overall economy.
The limits of this development
have not yet been reached.
Some commercial propaganda
regarding future yields should,
perhaps, be taken with a grain
of salt. Further spectacular
advances in yield per acre
through better and better hybrids
as such seem unlikely; in any
case, there is an obvious limit
to this sort of thing. But hybrids
with a greater resistance to
diseases and insect pests will
almost certainly be produced by
the Government organisations.
State and Commonwealth, which
are well equipped scientifically
for this aspect of development.
An immediate advance in pro-
duction per acre could be made
by a combination of heavier
seeding and heavier fertilising,
particularly with nitrogen.
Other advantages of
mechanised harvesting, already
developed in the U.S., are not
yet applied in Australia. If
recent agricultural history is any
guide, they will be. The fluid
pattern of research and applica-
tion in agriculture is one of the
most fascinating aspects of the
post-war years. One day you
read of something which seems
slightly improbable feeding
antibiotics to poultry, for
instance —on the other side of the
world. Then, weeks or months
later, there is a report of experi-
ments in Australia. And before
you can say “penicillin” the thing
is on a commercial basis, and
old Jack Down-the-road is pick-
ing the stuff up at the siding in
his ute, and fattening cockerels
on it.
For the busy man it’s becom-
ing hard to keep up with the
reading necessary to sift the chaff
from the grain in the mass of
information released in Aus-
tralia, much less to cover some
of the excellent overseas publica-
tions. And then, of course, there
is the problem of applying an
innovation at the right time.
So far as maize is concerned,
the chief of the advantages men-
tioned above is earlier harvest-
ing ; which would minimise risk
of loss by floods, allow earlier
fallowing (or other use of land),
and reduce some of the losses
arising from the crop not being
at an optimum state for the
mechanical operation.
Mechanical maize - pickers
work most efficiently when there
is a relatively high degree of
moisture still in the grain; but
at this stage the grain cannot be
safely stored and dried by the
usual methods. The advantages
of early harvesting are so great,
however, that artificial-drying has
largely followed mechanical-
harvesting in America.
Zea. *
“J.F.”: Maize is not, of
course, a major crop in Australia.
Still, it’s a fairly important one.
A glance at the acreage
(expressed in ’OOO acres) of
wheat, barley, oats, maize, rice,
sugar and tobacco, for two repre-
sentative years is interesting:
1938-39: wheat, 12,980 ; barley,
572 ; oats, 1569; maiize, 311;
rice, 23; sugar, 248; tobacco,
10; 1952-53: wheat, 10,210;
barley, 1377 ; oats, 2764 ; maize
174; rice, 35; sugar, 280 ;
tobacco, 8.
As in wheat, there has been
a decrease in acreage in the
period covered, but an increase
in yield per acre. There remains
the interesting comment of G.
Carse, of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, on a part
of the N.S.W. North C9ast: that
maize-growing potentialities of
the lower Richmond could turn
that area into another “American
corn-belt.”
Bee-herding
“B-herd”: As predicted earlier
(B. 5/5/’54) the bee-barons of
the northern slopes (N.S.W.)
have rolled the waterbag and
fled. A Queensland daily
estimates that upwards of two-
thousand colonies have migrated
into the heath and tea-tree belts
of the coastlands north of
Brisbane.
Most of them arrived in a
weakened state after months of
pollen-shortage in the drought-
lands west of the ranges, and it
will take all the winter and some
of the spring months to bring
the hives up to gathering-strength
again. Further, most of the men
who moved long distances to
this belt of dark-honey country
are aware of the difficulty in
marketing the honey (because
of its strong flavor), and are
content to watch the bees turn
it into brood for the force that
will gather the choice stuff
months ahead.
That’s the bee-herding game
these days; travel two days for
a build-up, move another 300
miles for the flow, and, if the
losses occur, cut ’em and pull into
the bowsers again.
Lime-sulphur
This page was recently invited
to Orange (N.S.W.) to attend the
opening of a lime-sulphur storage
depot. Since bulk-storage, in
general, is a sensible thing and a
tendency to be encouraged, and
since writer had not seen Orange
for some time, the invitation was
accepted.
The trip from Sydney and
back was made in an 1.C.1. car;
1.C.1. (Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries of Australia and New
Zealand), in conjunction with the
local growers’ co-op., being
responsible for the project.
' The ceremony itself was not
very exciting. It was a cold day
in Orange, and in a windswept
paddock a dozen men and a
curious dog tried hard to look
like a crowd: then, too, a pro-
portion of the crowd made
speeches and, as one of the
speechmakers remarked, it’s
difficult to make a speech to men
who have a fair idea what you
are going to say. For all that —
or perhaps because of it —the
speeches were clear and to the
point and mercifully short. The
local Press took shorthand notes
with impressive dexterity, and
the opening was broadcast over
commercial stations and by the
A.B.C. Sheltered from the wind
in a neighboring bar, a propor-
tion of spectators and principals
discussed the occasion with more
animation.
Because, of course, it was
important. If the population of
Orange didn’t turn out in their
cheering thousands, it was hard
to blame them; the grass was
wet and the wind was cold. But
that’s no indication that the
significance of the tanks was
missed. The tanks, after all,
were the kernel of the affair, and
they are still there. On this page
is reproduced a fair likeness.
They have a 3000-gallon
capacity and, already, represent
a saving to local growers. The
price of lime-sulphur at Orange
was from ss. 3d. to ss. sd. a
gallon (variation due to varia-
tion in handling-costs); now it
is 4s. 6d. a gallon. There is also
the considerable fact of the stuff
being on hand when needed (for
control of disease in fruit), which
will probably mean better overall
production for the district.
Before, distribution in the district
was mainly in 44-gallon drums;
now anyone can drive up in a
truck and get as much or as
little as he requires.
Taken all round, it’s an
interesting development. Orange
is a district with its eggs distri-
buted in all manner of baskets
from fruitgrowing to grazing. At
June 30, 1954, the district had
3071 apricot-trees, 331,075 apple-
trees, 110,624 pear-trees, 116,536
cherry-trees, 29,478 peach-trees
6304 nectarine-trees and 65,260
plum-trees; so, on that score
alone, it is a suitable place for
the installation.
Situation is, very likely,
another factor. The road-tax
cuts heavily into such ventures
and, probably, would prevent
extension of the scheme to
districts more distant from
Sydney.
Farm Hint
“Greasy”: Performance of
tractors on the farm doesn’t
always tally with tests. Don't
abuse the makers, or testers, but
use such standards as a basis.
Drawbar tests are made on a
hard track or road —sand, or a
cultivated paddock makes a dif-
ference, Slip can be reduced by
wheel-weights and water-ballast;
all right for loose soil, but not for
boggy soils. There’s also some
loss of performance due to
altitude and temperature. When
buying a tractor, it’s worth keep-
ing these things in mind. Power
on the farm may be 10 h.p. less
than in official tests. Likewise,
ignition and carburettor settings,
or diesel-pump and injector
adjustments. A tractor able to
develop 35 d.b.h.p. in a test might
only develop 25 d.b.h.p. up the
back paddock.


BUYERS! SELLERS!
We invite you to visit, phone or
write to us, for anything in
REAL ESTATE.
PACIFIC ESTATES,
CONNOR PLACE, SURFER’S PARADISE.
-Phone 824. A/hrs., Southport 915.
360 Queen Street, Brisbane. 89230.
A WORD TO THE BOSS ABOUT
TRUCK
BUYING
r
a
Our transport costs are running up every
year,’ said the Boss.
‘Do you know why ? ’ I asked,
‘That’s what I was going to ask you,’ he said.
And so I told him ‘This business wants a
modern truck fleet. Scrap the obsolete, fuel-
eating, shabby old trucks we’ve been running all
these years. They’re a bad advertisement for the
business anyway. Put in a modern truck fleet-
internationals. There’s an Australian-made
range of Internationals which assures us of a
continuous supply of both trucks and parts/
And the Boss said, *Huh ! What would it cost?’
So we went into figures there and then . . .
Now we have a truck fleet that’s the pride of our
whole business —all Internationals.
My word to the Boss proved sound —so I pass
it on to you—Cut out all inferior transport.
Put in Internationals.
Specialized -for your Job !
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE INTERNATIONAL LINE INCLUDES:
AR-110 Utility,
115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis
capacity, 115-in.
AR-110 Chassis
capacity, 127-in.
AR-112 Utility,
115-in. w.b.
AR-112 Chassis
capacity, 115-in.
AR-112 Chassis
capacity, 127-in.
AR-130 Chassis
capacity, 134-in.
AR-131 Chassis
capacity, 134-in.
AR-160 Chassis
capacity, 154-in.
12-cwt. capacity,
and Cab, 18-cwt.
w.b.
and Cab, 19-cwt.
w.b.
15-cwt. capacity,
and Cab, 21-cwt.
w.b.
and Cab, 23-cwt.
w.b.
and Cab, 35-cwt.
w.b.
and Cab, 35-cwt.
w.b.
and Cab, 3-4 ton
w.b.
AR-160 Chassis and Cab, 3-4 ton
capacity, 172-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton
capacity, 154-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5
ton capacity, 172-in. w.b.
AR-162 Chassis and Cab,
5-6 ton capacity,
154-in. w.b.
AR-162
Chassis and
Cab, 5-6 ton
capacity,
172-in. w.b.
There’s also a line of heavy-duty
imported International models.
Call, phone or write your Inter-
national Branch or dealer about
the right truck for your job.
Note: chassis and cab capacities
include body weights.
ia:
MODEL AR-160
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities
Works : Dandenong and Geelong.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
...THE WORLD'S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
PMT 475-36
Two Modest Men
rr'WO contributors, one from
1 N.S.W., the other from
Queensland, and both qualified
to write on their subjects, sent m
riiriously parallel (but quite
individual) articles. Here they
ar “THtlcum”: It has been wittily re,
that most plant-breeders are
“recessive characters.” John T. Pnd-
ham anyway, was unobtrusive and u,n.
failingly modest; in his private life a
firm disciple of a religion founded on
KiS and humility. But his work
was comparable with that of Farrer.
S passed on, at 74, the other week. I
wonder how many people who bene-
fited by his research knew anything
ab fn* after 1906, Pridham took-
over where Farrer left-off. At that
time Farrer’s Federation was the
most popular variety throughout the
Australian wheat-belt, but Pridham
produced a succession of superior
varieties which ultimately replaced it:
Hard Federation, Canberra, Waratah,
Aussie, Riverina, Wandilla, Union,
Bena, Bobin, Baringa, Gular and
Dundee. Other varieties, Nabawa,
and then Bencubbin and Gabo, were
developed from Pridham’s funda-
mental work. .
With oats Pridham did pioneering
work of the first importance, finding
the cereal in much the same position
in Australia as Farrer had found
wheat. Farrer’s Federation pushed
the belt westward and quadrupled the
acreage of wheat. Pridham developed
early-maturing varieties of oats suit-
able for the driest wheat-country.
Since 1914, when only 60,000 acres
of oats were grown in N.S.W., the
centre of oat-production in that State
has shifted from the potato-growing
tablelands to the wheat-growing west,
where more than a million acres of
oats are now grown. Thousands of
silos for the conservation of oat-grain
for reserve or supplementary fodder
stand as testimony and consummation
of Pridham’s conception of the mixed-
farming ballast which, he said, every
wheat-farm should have: Si monumen-
tum requiris, circumspice (if you want
a monument, look around you).
And from Queensland:
“Roma”: Nobody appreciates the
value of the university-trained agri-
cultural scientist better than I do, and
wheatgrowers, in particular, have
every reason to be thankful for the
plant-breeders find geneticists of the
Australian Universities and experi-
mental stations. All the same, a
Ph.D. or D.Sc. isn’t necessary to hit
the jackpot in plant-breeding; as
Richard Soutter, who never stained a
chromosome in his life, has demon-
strated. In one recent season 80 per
cent, of Queensland’s wheatlands
(about 700,000 acres) were sown to
his varieties.
The grand old chap, not long re-
tired, has seen his latest wheats, Spica
and Lawrence, remain resistant to the
new race of stem-rust which has
attacked Charter, Gabo, and Kendee.
There’s a big acreage of Spica and
Lawrence on the Darling Downs this
year. Wheat-breeders, by and large,
are modest men, but Richard Soutter,
who bred Threeseas, Puno, Puseas,
Puora, Puglu, Flora, Novo, and War-
put (to mention a few), remains the
most modest and helpful expert I
have had the good fortune to meet.
Sod-seeding
“C.A.A.”: Sod-seeding imple-
ments were recently demonstrated
in Sydney. There’s a lot to be,
said for the system, which is,
briefly, the lodging of seed and
fertiliser under the existing sward
without previous cultivation.
Should be more economical than
overseeding.
Tests have shown that a 6ft.
tiller, solo-operated, can cover
about one and a half acres an
hour. It is not claimed that the
implement should replace routine
methods of seed-bed preparation
and seeding, when those methods
are practical. But there is plenty
of rough country where ordinary
machinery cannot, or should not,
be used. It can also be used in
place of a drill on cultivation,
a °d is an ideal implement for
seeding land worked with a
chisel-plough.
In addition to its likely place
m seeding pasture-grasses on the
slopes and tablelands, it should
prove useful for seeding rye-
grass into established clover, and
for overcropping winter pastures
with oats.
"Run-out" Seed
, Jimonor”: Old yarns die
■lard, and one of the most per-
sistent is the belief that seed
runs-out”; and, therefore, that
new seed of the same variety
rom some other region is needed
time to time,
tne belief was widespread
years ago, and it isn’t difficult to
see why—analogies with inbreed-
ing in humans and animals are
fairly obvious. The belief has
been handed-down in some farm-
ing families for generations; and,
consequently, some very good
farmers hold it. But the truth
is that individual plants in any
crop which has male and female
flowers maturing or receptive at
the same time are self-fertile, and
obey the law of producing their
like, if they are pure, as they
generally are.
Only when a self-fertile plant
has been deliberately cross-
fertilised, or (more rarely) when
natural cross-fertilisation has
taken place, and when the type
has not been fixed by years of
subsequent selection, will it
produce variable progeny.
If home-grown wheat-seed is
pure —evfn if it is infested with
seed-borne disease, such as
stinking-smut—it could, with
treatment, be superior to seed of
a crop about which little is
known. Seed pinched by drought,
or by disease such as rust (which
is not seed-transmitted), will not
be as good as plump seed if other
things are equal. But if these
things are not equal the tradi-
tional warnings concerning
distant fields should be kept in
mind.
At the bottom of the desire to
change seed, of course, are the
commendable urge to get some-
thing better and recognition of
the fact that seed is important.
There are a number of good
reasons why a farmer may want
to change his seed (lack of
purity; disease), but it is
important that he does get some-
thing better. At one time the
various State Departments of
Agriculture sold (relatively) large
quantities of cereal-seed from
their Experiment Farms to
growers who placed their orders
early. Today, the tendency is for
the departments to sell founda-
tion-seed, in smaller quantities,
to growers whose crops are field-
inspected, and who produce com-
mercial supplies of pure seed.
Seed firms sometimes come into
the picture.
Registration- or certification-
schemes, involving such field-
inspection, are in operation in
Australia for the production of
pasture - seed, French - beans,
hybrid-maize and potatoes. With
potatoes, “seed” can, and does,
“run-out” very quickly from
infection by one or more virus
diseases. It’s asking for trouble
to plant uncertified potato-seed.
Crosscuts
Queensland Cane - growers’
Council hopes to have
mechanical-harvesting trials on
N.Q. canefields before end of
crushing-season.
* * *
Tam worth (N.S.W.) Farmers
and Settlers’ branch wants wheat
graded by zones. Some system
of grading has to come, they
argue, and zones (as in Canada)
are practical. Silos are not
capable of handling a number of
grades. G. N. Thomas (presi-
dent) said it was well known
that wheat grown in north-west
N.S.W.’ was of better quality than
wheat in western and southern
districts. In the west, for
instance, growers complained
that high-quality wheat like Gabo
didn’t suit their districts. So
they grew wheat of lower quality
that gave higher yields, and this
lowered the f.a.q. sample. If the
zone system was implemented,
wheat from n.-w. could be sold
separately* for a better price.
Whether the south and west
growers will support the scheme
remains to be seen.
* * *
“H.”: “Pest Surveyors”—a
team of scientists trained to
observe insects and the like in
the field, and to apply their
observations to control—are to
form a sort of Intelligence Corps
in the U.S., supplying informa-
tion to centralised bodies. In
most cases, it is believed, a fore-
knowledge of invasions of pests
will give time for manufacturers,
distributors, etc., to have sprays,
dusts, gases in stock and in the
right place when required. The
scheme is financed by Federal
and State funds.
* ♦ *
Geologist H. A. Ellis advised
banana- and bean-growers at
Carnarvon (W.A.) what to do
about salinity in the Gascoyne.
Remove ribbons of river-sand
down to clay bed, refill with clay
from bank to bank, and place at
regular intervals: such ribbons,
apparently, having the effect of
stopping the flow of sand in the
river proper and giving the lateral
sands a chance to recharge with
sweet water. What had happened
was that water was being pumped
out (fpr irrigation) so fast that
the reservoirs of lateral sand
couldn’t perform their natural
function.
For a visitor from the eastern
States, Carnarvon, about 500
miles north of Perth, near Shark
Bay, in low-rainfall country, is a
surprising patch of green.
There’s local irrigation from the
river.
* * *
Use of a trace-element kit was
demonstrated at a field-day in
the Orange (N.S.W.) district by
agronomist W. Hudson. Two
kits are now on the market, each
with detailed instructions.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The rains that the Redex-trial competitors met at
Kempsey (N.S.W.) were those of the Uranian cycle, which
came in 1870. But they were very weak at first (poor sun-
spot action), and it seemed likely that they would fail. They
were, however, fully reproduced. Next rains should be light
to heavy, late this month and early in August.


■
wm
I ' nwm DS
.
iMmmm
•iliiiii
■.f
-v> :
M
N
HE FILLS A VACUUM IN YOUR LIFE .
Each week versatile George Foster comperes “You’re
On Velvet, a novel musical quiz based on your
musical favourites, played by Wilbur Kentwell and
L.lenn Marks, and featuring a popular guest artist each
week. 1 here s money to be won, too, by both con-
testants and listeners, and Aunt Jenny offers valuable
prizes to engaged couples from her Glory Box.
* George Foster demonstrates how a vacuum
cleaner works to Aunt Jenny (right) and a
Glory Box prize winner.
2GB - SAW ■ 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
Divorce Notices
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN WATKIN BROWN late of 49
Boronia Avenue Epping.—TAKE NOTICE
that. WACLAW HLADONIUK has filed }
Petition for Divorce No. 1048 of 1994
against his wife OLWBN VIOLET
MARTHA HLADONIUK on the ground
of her adultery with you If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 15th October 1954
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. TUGKERMAN &
EVANS, Solicitors, of Port Kembla, or
their Sydney Agents, MESSRS. CLAYTON,
UTZ & COMPANY, 136 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME ■COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO BILLY GREEN late of Wellington in
the State of New South Wales.I—TAKE 1 —TAKE
NOTICE that FREDERICK JOHN
IRELAND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 826 of 1954 from THORA
MAY IRELAND on the ground 6f her
adultery with you You may enter an
appearance at the Court on or before
the 21st day of October 1964 A copy
of the petition may be obtained froffl
the Solicitors for the Petitioner, MESSRS
WILSON & THOMSON, of 155 King
Street, Sydney, free of charge.—C. A. 14-
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Public Notice
TO~ ROYSTON DUKE SULLIVAN
formerly of 111 Hoddle Street Colling'
wood in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DAISY GLEN
SULLIVAN instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards Unless
you enter an appearance in the P r0 ‘
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
William Street Melbourne on or
the twenty-third day of August 1954 tne
case ' may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs If y°“
intend to defend this case you must also
file an answer in the said Office on or
before the second day of September 1954-
NORMAN C. PHILLIPS. 742 High Street,
Thornbury, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
by LOUGHREY & LOUGHREY, Solicitors,
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
bounded up the steps. “Sorry
to butt in, Mr. Wills.”
“That’s all right, Dick. What
is it?”
“Some talk’s come down about
a plane up in the pass. Kanakas
reckon it sailed in and stayed
there. Before midday.”
“Stayed there! Good God!
Lanky Mac. Due in today.”
; “True! ”
“Grab a dozen of these
kanakas —carry medical stuff up ;
do for stretcher - bearers.
Watch!”
“Sir!”
“Tokim Sergeant Koipa i
come.”
“Yessir.”
A motor-bike spluttered to a
stop, and Pogupo’s third exile
came briskly on to the veranda.
Heavy, florid, fortyish.
“Afternoon, Father,” said
Sammy. “Heard the talk?”
“I sure have.” A pleasant
Irish-American voice.
“Of course there’s a chance
it’s wrong.”
“There is, sure there is. I’ll
come along.”
“Two-o’clock now; should
just do it in daylight. Dick —you
hold the fort. Put it on the air.
Someone might fly over and look
if the weather lifts. All set?
Right!”
The patrol-officer glumly
watched the line move off. He
was new here; Sammy knew the
range like the palm of his hand.
He turned towards the radio.
TF Haile Selassie took to wear-
* ing eagle-plumes stuck in a
leaf-turban, and little else, he’d
look pretty much like Mehi,
Kano’s father-in-law. Small,
dark and bearded, he strode
along in the middle of the line
with a first-aid box on his back.
Ahead and behind him other
carriers humped gear on poles.
Up in front he could see the
white shirts of the Popi
missionary and the Kiap. He
could hear the high, thin, carry-
ing cries of kanakas on the
distant mountain, relaying the
front-page story of the day. It
was the balus from the valley
where his daughter lived with
Kano. (A loud-mouthed upstart
who had trouble coming to him
as soon as he, Mehi, cared to
tell the Kiap of his perfidy.)
Many tribesmen were search-
ing for the aeroplane, the tale
came echoing down the moun-
tain. They’d heard it, and
suddenly they hadn’t heard it. It
had left the next valley and had
not come into this one. Yodelling
echoes acknowledged tidings of
the patrol’s progress. The
swarthy, lap-lapped turnimtalk
padded close behind Sammy,
who asked without looking back,
“Kanaka findim?”
“No got, Masta. 01 kanaka
walk about nambout on top,
tasol. Behind natink findim.”
“Yes, they should run across
him soon if he’s there. The
gap’s quite narrow, Father.”
“More’s the pity.”
“True.”
TT was late-afternoon now, and
A at nine-thousand feet the
climbing was strenuous. There
was little talk in the line. Breath-
ing was deep, slow and audible.
Bare toes sought and gripped
slippery footholds. Moss-clad
tree-boles and steep-rising ground
faded green into a damp-grey
world of cloud.
A long, eerie, elfin sound came
softly down from far above, was
picked up by a nearer voice,
amplified and thrown on down.
The climbing men halted, gasp-
ing like fish and listening. In a
moment Sammy’s sweat-soaked
shirt felt icy in the thin air.
“Masta, kanaka talk i findini
balus finis.”
“Masta bilong im?”
“Imi die finis.”
The priest sighed. “Ahhh;
I’d like to have got there.”
“One of yours, Father?”
“Sure, sure. go on.”
“Turnimtalk —'balus i got
fire?”
“No got, Masta. Bagarup,
tasbl.”
“That’s something, anyway.”
'T'HERE was a grey silence over
the place when they reached
it. Silence barely ruffled by the
low muttering of the hillmen.
There was a great furrow in the
moss and a wing hung back in
the broken trees. Among the
carriers quick black eyes flicked
over the crazily-strewn cargo.
Lanky Mac was hunched
forward, hands gripping the
wheel, head bowed in a wreckage
of instruments.
Salt had burst against the
buckled pilot-seat; and Kano’s
father-in-law stared for a long
lime at a red mark on the corner
of a bag. From Kano!
thought to establishing a
psychological dominance over an
opponent before a fight, or, fail-
ing that, annoying him. A crude
example of this sort of psycho-
logical warfare is seen in the
McGuiness story. But, with
extraordinary frankness, Corbett
shows himself acting with strik-
ing ungraciousness time after
time. Sometimes —as when he
rebuffed Bob Fitzsimmons,
rather in the manner of a man
kicking a friendly dog—he hated
doing it. He gives a sympathetic
sketch of Peter Jackson, a magni-
ficent specimen of manhood,
6ft. l|in. and 204 pounds, but
so well-proportioned he looked
lean, intelligent, dignified, gravely
courteous. But, he says, in the
eyes of this magnanimous giant,
he, Corbett, 21 and unknown,
scarcely existed. It was neces-
sary to rectify this omission by
calculated rudeness. Jackson
remained polite, but, once, his
eyes opened in amazement, and
Corbett thought he saw in them
the question: “Why does this
kid think he can whip me?”
That seed of doubt was what
Corbett had labored to plant.
Before they went into the ring
Jackson made one request.
Could he go in last? His
opponents had always granted
him this favor.
“You’re* a little superstitious
about it?” asked Corbett.
Jackson agreed ; he had never
gone into the ring first. . . Well,
he would this time, Corbett
snapped. For 45 minutes Jackson
refused to budge. The promoters
pleaded with Corbett. He was
adamant. At last they agreed to
go in together. At the last
moment Corbett ducked back,
and Jackson went in first. His
calm was broken.
Sullivan and Corbett had a
similar argument, the night of
the championship fight. But, in
this case, Corbett feared that the
tremendous ovation Sullivan
would receive would make him
nervous. Sullivan was cunning,
and sent word that he had gone
into the ring Corbett, half-way
down the aisle, turned back, met
Sullivan, and informed him that
he was prepared to stand there
all night. Sullivan roared like a
lion; a point of precedence, as
it were, in reverse.
When Corbett beat him,
Sullivan was in his decline.
Corbett makes no bones about it,
but, as he points out, that’s the
way it usually is—almost a law
of nature. A champion is beaten
when he is past his prime and,
before he knows it, his conquerer
is past his prime, too. Corbett
goes further, and says he was at
his peak in San Francisco, when
he was unknown. Later, at the
height of his fame, when he was
most conscious of his speed and
skill, he had already begun to
slip—and didn’t know it. It’s an
interesting thought, and can be
applied to less spectacular
activities. Jack Dempsey, in his
memoirs, approaches the same
thought from a different angle.
He was finished as a fighter, he
said, when he began to think.
There is an element of wisdom-
after-the-event in most accounts
of the Sullivan-Corbett fight.
Slavin, Jackson, Mitchell and
Corbett were all capable of beat-
ing Sullivan as he was then.
The point is that (apart from the
fighters themselves) no one
believed Sullivan could be beaten
until Corbett proved it
Corbptt, in training, ate ice-
creams. Men would stare at
him: “Is that the fellow who’s
fighting Sullivan?” No greater
contrast with the boisterous
champion could be imagined.
What hurt Corbett a little, at
this time, was the attitude of the
Irish, who not only thought he
would be beaten but hated him
for daring to fight Sullivan. Be-
cause Corbett, one of ten children
of immigrant Irish parents, liked
to think of himself as typically
Irish.
Sullivan had just the right com-
bination of aggressiveness, good-
' humor and temper for popu-
larity. Corbett himself was cold
outside his immediate circle. He
didn’t like being mauled in
saloons; but there Sullivan was
on his native heath. There was
something a little deadly about
Corbett’s level-headedness. As
when, back in San Francisco, at
a mixed party, he swallowed
insults from a young rowdy all
evening ; then called on him next
day.
The fight itself is something of
an anti-climax. The Choinyski
fight, in which Corbett says his
courage was tested for the first
time, was more dramatic. It
could take its place in an
anthology of great fights. Still,
the championship fight has its
own interest, Corbett knocking
Sullivan out in the twenty-first
round. There was a stunned
silence for a time, then, as the
crowd realised that Sullivan
couldn’t get up, “an uproar like
Niagara tumbling over the cliffs.”
And Corbett, as he looked at the
fallen champion, hated the
crowd.
After the- fight, Corbett, at a
banquet, drank a glass of milk.
He didn’t really want it, but he
thought it would be a good
example to the sporting youth of
the day. But the temper of the
times was hot inclined towards
his example. Rough blades like
Slavin and Mitchell, for instance,
after a few drinks, thought it
amusing to call on Corbett at
the theatre where he was appear-
ing (in another melodrama) and
offer to fight him on the spot,
for five pounds. Corbett refused,
but later fought and beat Mitchell
in the ring. But, with charac-
teristic honesty, he points out
that Mitchell was past his prime.
He had been “a mighty man—
the first who ever knocked John
L. Sullivan down, and that too
when Sullivan was at his best.”
In France Mitchell had fought a
draw with Sullivan, with bare
knuckles, under London prize-
ring rules.
Of the much-told fight with
Fitzsimmons, Corbett has no
mention of the famous blood-
wreathed grin by Fitz in the
fourteenth round. Much
nonsense, he says, has been
written about the “solar-plexus
punch” that knocked him out
after he had given Fitzsimmons
a terrible beating. It was a left-
hook to the stomach, which
fighters had been giving and
receiving for generations. What
was remarkable was
simmons’s ability, in that state
to deliver a knock-out blow, and
—as Corbett describes what’han.
pened in detail —to deliver it
from that angle. But the ability
to hit from any angle was Fitz.
simmons’s special ability ...
Well, James J. Corbett was
“Gentleman Jim” because he had
a style, a distinction, a certain
superiority of mind inside the
ring and outside it. His face
pictured above old-fashioned
evening-suit, is not inconsistent
with these qualities. But it has
something more; a ruggedness
a humor, a toughness which’
perhaps, in this Hollywood-
ridden age, may not accord with
concepts apt to be somewhat
suburban and timid. In such
masculine matters as prizefight-
ing, anyway.
THE LISTENER
He was the whipcord boy who stood
upon the perimeter of his blood,
and thought in the mind’s clear voice: “I know
where the notes of the flute and magpie go.
They round the rim of the dark sea
shored by the cliffs oT bone in me;
“go under the wave to the spiral cell
piped as’ a throat, lobed as an ear,
grooved as a rib and smooth as the cage
that bears my thought and breath and rage.
And the insolent, sensual notes I hear *
are held in the curving clef of a shell.”
He was the changeling boy who stood
upon the perimeter of his blood,
and spoke in the mind’s clear tones: “I go
where the notes of the flute and magpie flow
under the lip of the dark sea
to the twisted, secret shell in me.”
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN


BY THE WATERS OF GALILEE
Dale Collins
A charming collection of Short Stories with Bible
characters as the central figures.
At all booksellers - - 15/6
WORLD'S WORK
LONDON :: MELBOURNE SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
Mr. JONES MEET THE
MASTER
A selection of the prayers and sermons
of Peter Marshall, now published for
the first time. The sermons were
preached from the pulpit of Washing-
ton’s historic New York Avenue
Presbyterian Church, and his prayers
were given in the U.S. Senate, of which
he was chaplain. The prayers are for
every man, and Mr. Marshall’s unique
method of indicating emphasis and
intonation is preserved by special
typography. 13/3 (post 7d.)
PEACE WITH GOD
by Billy Graham, a man who has
exerted wide religions influence in
America on radio, television and in his
famous newspaper column. Dedicated
to the man in the street, Mr. Graham
says of his book : “My purpose is to
give him a clear understanding of a
new way of life... and my daily
prayer will be that in this hour of
crisis. confusion, perplexity and
bewilderment, it will be used to bring
him to Peace with God.”
13/3 (post 7d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other books you need—you’ll find them all at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
C.I.
★ The heroic story of
Douglas Bader
REACH FOR THE SKY, by Paul Brickhill
“ Will stir a glow of pride in every British heart.”
—RICHARD PAPE, M.M
“ This story takes its place beside that of Captain Scott.
X 11M.O 1 X CT CT A V TT\ATSQ
COLLINS
—HENRY LONGHURST, SUNDAY TIMES
Illustrated, 21/-
From All Booksellers. PUBLISHERS
nr cases and colors then occupying the
Syear-Old Davy’s mind. Davy’s con-
-2 winns to Beddoes’s book on such
t t ects published in 1799, drew appre-
c“£ comment from the exiled Priestly
in DaT ften set out on “one of the
nrvidpst series of experiments ever under-
takfn by man’’-the inhaling of gases,
beginning with nitrous oxide. His friends,
including Coleridge, vied with hun in
describing their feelings when under the
■ Alienee of what was to become known
“ fl C*h.ng gas” ; Davy wrote in 1800
that “nitrous oxide may probably be used
with advantage during surgical opera-
tinns” ’ but it was not until 1844 that the
American dentist Wells used it, and not
until later still that it came into general
US Next Davy inhaled four quarts of
hydrogen ; then, pure nitrogen ; then pure
hydrocarbonate, a 50-50 mixture of
carbon-monoxide and oxygen. As “air
containing only a few per cent, of carbon-
monoxide is insidiously fatal,” he was
lucky to survive. Next he discovered that
pure carbon-dioxide closed his throat so
that he could not get it into his lungs, but
eventually he got it down diluted ■; then
he took on nitric oxide, which, combining
with air and water, filled his mouth with
nitric acid, “burnt the tongue and palate,
injured the teeth and produced an-inflam-
mation of the mucous membrane which
lasted some hours,”
This do-or-die attitude to experiments,
and the brilliance of his writings, brought
him to the notice of London ; he became
Director of the Laboratory at London
Royal Institution in 1801, and in 1802 the
institution’s number-one lecturer. His
demonstrations became social events:
Men of the first rank and talent —the
literary and the scientific, the practical and
the theoretical, blue-stockings, and women
of fashion, the old and the young, all
crowded —eagerly crowded the lecture-room.
He was knighted in 1812, and three
days later married a wealthy widow
whose hopes to share his glamor were
frustrated by his scientific preoccupations.
When she took him travelling it was
always with a portable laboratory with
which he experimented at all stops; _or
he would be conferring with foreign
scientists. His two main relaxations were
fishing and the writing of poetry, neither
of them gregarious occupations. More-
over, he would take on his travels a poor
young scientist, part-valet, part-assistant,
Michael Faraday, whom Professor Ken-
dall considers his greatest discovery. At
first it was Lady Davy who hated Michael
and treated him as a servant; but gradu-
ally Davy had to face the challenge of
Faraday’s growing fame ; possibly it was
Davy who blackballed Faraday’s election
to the Royal Society in 1824.
Professor Kendall devotes a chapter to
Davy’s lamp, the result of explosions in
1812 at Felling Colliery near Sutherland,
which led to the formation of the “Society
for Preventing Accidents in Coal Mines.”
The invention of the lamp, says the Pro-
fessor, illustrates Davy’s amazing speed
at solving such problems. The Society
asked his help on August 3, 1815. By
October 3 he was writing to describe four
models of lamp made on the principle
that explosive mixtures of mine-damp will
not pass through small apertures or tubes;
and that if a lamp or lanthorn be made air-
tight on the sides, and furnished with aper-
tures to admit the air, it will not com-
municate flame to the outward atmosphere.
On November 9, he read a paper on
the subject to the Royal Society. After
this, claims were made for George
Stephenson’s prior invention of the lamp,
which Davy’s friends dismissed as does
Professor Kendall; but a more serious
objection was that if the protective wire
gauze of Davy’s lamp became too hot,
the gas would pass through and explode:
the unhappy Faraday’s assent to this
proposition before a Parliamentary com-
mittee left Davy in helpless fury.
Davy’s last days were full of travels,
and spent in practical, but not open,
separation from his wife. In 1829, in reply
to Davy’s letter that he was dying in
Rome, Lady Davy replied with one of
the most extraordinary compositions ever
written in such circumstances:
I have received, my beloved Sir Humph-
rey, the letter signed by your hand, with its
precious wish of tenderness, bearing the
date Ist of March. I start tomorrow....
I trust to embrace you, for so clear and
beautiful expressions and sentiments cannot
be the inhabitants of decay, however, of
feeble limbs and frame I cannot add
more than that your fame is a deposit, and
your memory a glory, your life still a hope.
Someone remarked that it was intended
for publication, but as Professor Kendall
points out, Lady Davy, in poor hearth,
made the long journey to Rome by post-
chaise “in the remarkable time of ten
days”—that’s practical affection. She took
him to Geneva, where he died, May 28,
“burnt out,” in his own words, at 50.
Saroyan Serious
William Saroyan has sub-titled his new
novel The Laughing Matter (Faber) “A
Serious Story.” But intentional humor is
not the only absent quality in this
sombre book—a sense of proportion
seems to be lacking, making allowance
for the fact that, although written in
Saroyan’s patent “realistic” style, the
novel is mannered both in interpretation
and writing.
The story opens with Evan Nazarenus
and his wife taking their two children
to his brother’s vineyard-farm for a holi-
day, the brother, Dade, being absent.
Evan is a university teacher of English,
but his nationality (Armenian, one sup-
poses) still imposes upon him a number
of cultural and emotional patterns which
complicate and color his behavior. And
very often when he has anything really
significant to discuss with either his
brother or any of the other men of their
nationality who enter the story later,
such conversations are glossed over as
having been conducted “in their own
language,” which makes this difficult
book harder to follow.
On the first day of their holiday Swan
tells Evan that she is pregnant, and that
he is not the father of the coming child.
The announcement precipitates some
terrific “scenes” —the Nazarenus chil-
dren and neighbors have no choice but
to be aware of marital crisis.
Evan rushes hither and yon, sees his
brother, comes back to the family, and,
at Swan’s insistence, they endeavor to
act in a way which will reassure the
children, who are indeed lulled back
into serene security for a time, although,
as their private conversations with each
other and with friends show, they have
as much awareness of strain and change
as anyone else in the drama. All this
gives the author opportunity for oblique
discussion of family relationships in
general, and, though rather too obscurely
treated, the middle section of the book
is moving and sincere.
Then Evan, Dade and Swan attempt
a solution to the central problem, which
results in Swan’s death—or so it seems
until a further disclosure shows that the
poor thing had, in fact, suicided. Mean-
while Evan manages to shoot Dade- —an
accident? —a puzzled man in a distant
town kills himself, while the last few
pages are adorned with yet another
corpse whose identity is quite inevitable,
so that the stage becomes positively
Elizabethan in its litter of corpses.
The obvious intention of all this is
to demonstrate that it is children who
have to suffer from parental conflict, but
here the children have been swamped
by adult corpses —being flesh of cipher
parents, they are, in the last analysis,
ciphers themselves.
Kenya Mystery: C. T. Stoneham
(Museum Press). Returning to Kenya
after serving in World War 11, a coffee-
grower finds a skeleton of a white man
on a ledge behind a boulder. Through
scenes of elephant-hunts, natives plotting
rebellion, etc., they unwind the story of
the bad man Landser, uncovering a trace
of pre-war Nazi plotting and a mysterious
German-looking valet. When things
have got near enough to the end of the
book, the murderer surprises everyone
by confessing for a complete chapter.
Songs of Bendigo
Two Songs of ’57, with notes by Hugh
Anderson (Rams Skull Press), is the
second of a series of chapbooks, the
first of which, The Dying Stockman, has
already been reviewed. Both songs
(words and music are printed) were
written and sung in Bendigo by Charles
Thatcher, and neither has appeared in
any of that übiquitous gentleman’s pub-
lished songbooks.
The first, “Weston and His Clerk,” is
sung to a jolly early-19th-century tune,
“Viliikins and His Dinah,” and is pre-
sented with Thatcher’s spoken asides.
Weston was a Bendigonian magistrate
here celebrated trying and convicting two
sly-grog sellers on the evidence of detec-
tives McGarrell and Dixon. The song
ends with a moral which shows its
style:
MORAL
Specially addressed to the fortunate spec-
tators here present who’ve not been stuck
up yet but have that pleasure to come —
Now all you grog sellers you’d better look out.
For lots of, detectives are going about;
dressed in disguise with quarters of mutton
for their shoulders
For a call from McGarrell or Dixon forebodes,
Forkin’ out 50 pounds or four months on the roads.
Grand chorus of stone breakers.
“The Gutter” shows what happened
after the first Bendigo municipal council
cut a drainage gutter in the centre of
the town. Many prominent citizens are
referred to by name: Mr. Anderson gives
notes about some of them. They were
allegedly hauled into court because,
things being quiet, and and “no soul open
for fining,” the magistrate decided to “tug
up a few, for not keeping clear the new
gutter.” This amusing song is to the air
of “Over the Water to Charlie.”
Two Songs of ’57 is, like the first of
the series, elaborately printed, bound in
slink-skin and beautifully illustrated
with Ron Edwards’s lino-blocks. Its
price makes it a collector’s-piece, but the
publishers advise that the remaining
seven of the series will be bound in cover-
paper and will be considerably cheaper,
unless calf-bindings are especially
ordered.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 286
Across
1 Post Office manufactured hair-oil.
(6)
4 A fantastic arabesque in writing
51 between a heel and a hint. (8)
9 For how many years has the
untidiness endured a communica-
tion? (7)
10— Watch tower warning. (4-3)
12—Rash motorists what may become
rasher? (4, 4)
13 Measurer was introduced to the
Queen. (5)
O—Locked-up Roman princess who
called on Attila, King of the
Huns, to be her husband and
deliverer. (7)
19—Home of the crook in Virginia
where the villain is dropping in.
20 Slave master backing an oriental
territory like Loxton. (5)
-I—Managed to turn a ruler behaving
like a spoilsport. (7)
Dwarf feat to attract attention.
Perhaps a motorist is to roar
about a great Italian actress.
(4-4)
27—Give back relaxation to Scandina-
vian money. (7)
29 Wentworth Park event to perform
with a bearded cricketer. (3-4)
30— Fine brig, (anagram) (8)
31— Explorer makes the humble dwell-
ing carry fifty. (6)
Down
1 — Barker combines something like
an apple with the apple of the
loyal rajah’s eye and the last
quarter of the Jonathan. (10)
2 Tests as much as reorganised New
Englanders’ address. (13)
3 Hated change will be the finish of
me. (5)
5 111-favored. (4)
6 East Sydney card-game. (3)
7 Swallows the grub. (4)
g—Breaking a bearing with the horse
in it. (9)
11 —Some bowling to the onside 1
criticise severely, and make too
many rules. (13)
14_The poet’s final message. (5)
1 s—Pretty5—Pretty speeches, these puzzles,
and the squabbles of blondes
consist entirely of them. (4, 5)
16 —Part of Melbourne urges you not
to arch the ship’s planks in-
efficiently. (10)
18—Name for women only. (5)
24 —How the deliberately unobtrusive
lie for a boxer with dash, and a
Pom on leave. (5)
25 What plagiarists do for the baby’s
place cards? (4)
26 — Just about in check. (4)
28—So many a Russian ends up where
the covers are. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 295


■jv*
&
'
‘P
Machine Tools
IMMEDIATE
-j4‘
I
/*
LV>.
HHii
3 W B
MARS 14* in. ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
The recent delivery of the latest 14|-in. Mars all geared head lathe to Australia’s largest mining enterprise: represents
an important milestone in the progress of Australia’s Machine Tool Building Industry.
The unique lathe bed design of this unit takes the swarf away from the operator, thus reducing non-producing
periods to a minimum. A sft. swing and a 30in. wide bed provides an extremely high operational capacity. The lathe
is fitted with a force feed and magnetic filtered lubrication system.
f
MARS No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and
outstanding quality. Rapid power traverse, all movements. Wide
range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics. Schlesinger Standards
of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
MARS 16* in. SHAPER
This is an ideal all-purpose shaping machine with a
wide operational range. Designed to cut key ways in
long shafts. Guaranteed accuracy.
m
a
res
MARS lOi/11 ALL GEARED HEAD, S.S. & S.c. LATHE
Gap bed. Hollow Spindle, available to 12 ft. Centres. Guaranteed accuracy. Fitted with oil immersed multi-disc
driving clutches, force fed lubrication, automatic brake system, remote control. Manufactured of Meehanite
Castings produced in Mars Laboratory-Controlled Meehanite Foundry.
ALSO MARS lOg/ll ALL-GEARED HEAD LATHE.— -Model A with sft. 3in. between centres. These lathes are
capable of tremendous cutting power and capacity. You are invited to see them demonstrated at any time at our
factory.
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. Vic.; Herbert Osborne
Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W. and Queensland: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
Tas.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. India, Bombay Province; R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Port Bombay.
Philippines: The Earnshaws Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MAKING THE LARGEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MAR!
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
