

OUSE
f
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
'•v■ ■ ■ -’'V- ' • . ■ ' . ’ »:••• .
The Bulletin
CHANGI SYMPOSIUM
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3862
Wednesday, February 17, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THREADNEEDLE STREET’S GRAND “OLD LADY”
THE main business area of London is known as the City. Here, between
St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London, lies a triangular con-
junction of streets that is distinguished by having no name. The conjunction
is variously known as the Bank, which forms but one side of it, as the
Exchange, which also occupies but one side, or as Mansion House-street,
which forms the remaining side. The thoroughfares which lead into this
triangle are Threadneedle-street, Cornhill, Lombard-street, King William-
street, the Poultry (so named because of its early associations with the sale
of chickens), and Princes-street. In all these streets are to be found busi-
ness, banking and broking, and is the never-resting heart which pumps
finance into the arteries of British trade.
Presiding over this concentration of the City’s wealth and power is the
Bank of England, known throughout the world as the “Old Lady of
Threadneedle-street.” It began as a project of W'illiam Paterson, a Scot
from Dumfriesshire, in 1658, and in 1694 it was incorporated by Royal
Charter. Its original capital of £1,200,000 was later increased to £14,553,000,
which is held by the Treasury. The affairs of the bank are managed by a
governor, deputy-governor and 16 directors appointed by the Sovereign. The
varied activities of the bank include the management of the national debt-
As the British Government’s banker it is responsible for making arrange-
ments for the provision of money to meet the fluctuating short-term needs
of the Government. The staff number over 6000, but this includes those
concerned with note-printing conducted at Finsbury in buildings that cover
an area even greater than the four acres occupied by the bank in Thread-
needle-street.
The first Bank of England was built in 1734, and was later extended to
the designs of Sir John Soane and Sir Herbert Baker. The building rises
seven stories above the seething traffic at its feet and is a familiar landmark
to Londoners.
Since 1780, when attacked by the Gordon Rioters, the Bank of England
has been guarded nightly by a picket consisting of an officer and 24 other
ranks mounted by the famous Brigade of Guards.


DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever you live, a Modem Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard' and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Hairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
~ CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -----
To STOTT'S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 454) AGE
The Red Page
JOHN LANG AND
"ALEXANDER HARRIS"
New light may be thrown on the
identity of “Alexander Harris,” author of
Settlers and Convicts (Red Page, 17/6/’53,
23/12/’53, 20/l/’54) if we consider this
work to be from the pen of John Lang,
Sydney-born barrister, best known for
his Botany Bay, or True Tales of Early
Australia, medallist in classics while still
in his ’teens, and first native-born writer
of fiction. There is much circumstantial
evidence to support this suggestion.
John George Lang—there is no con-
nection with the celebrated John Dun-
more Lang—was born in Sydney on
December 19, 1816, and —with the excep-
tion of a trip to England with his mother
in 1820, and four years studying law at
Cambridge in the late 1830’s —remained
in the colony until he finally left for India
in April, 1842. Thus if we consider that
his clear boyhood recollections started
when he was eight years old, in 1825, it
will be seen that the 17 years between
that date arid 1842 is precisely the period
covered by “Harris” in Settlers and
Convicts.
Throughout his life Lang enjoyed
comfortable circumstances, and had
ample leisure to write voluminously, not
only of his early life in Australia, but
also of his later life in India, much of
which appeared anonymously in periodi-
cals of the period, such as “Household
Words,” edited by Charles Dickens, and
“The Welcome Guest.”
In these he vividly describes the Aus-
tralian scene; encounters with bush-
rangers, fights with the blacks, of droughts
and floods, of selecting new stations in
the back country and of campfire tales
as they fell from the lips of old lags—
all enlivened with the picturesque slang
of the true currency-lad. In style and
subject-matter Lang’s writing is so simi-
lar to Settlers and Convicts that whole
passages could be exchanged without an
unsuspecting reader knowing the
difference.
Is it reasonable to suppose that “Alex-
ander Harris” —be he either aspiring
“Emigrant Mechanic” or ex-convict made
good—should make long dissertations on
the Bushranging Act, the Hired Servants’
Act, or the Indemnity Act, as he does in
Settlers and Convicts? The same inclin-
ation to air legal knowledge can be seen
in another of his books {Martin Beck, p.
157), when he fills the mouth of poor
Mrs. Mercer, the wife of a Hawkesbury
doctor, with the following rigmarole:
“Will you allow me, Mr. Hurley,” said
Mrs. Mercer, “to inquire wherein civil and
criminal law stand defined from each
other? Is criminal law that law which
takes cognizance of wrongs wilfully done,
and civil law that which has regards to acts
which, though wrong in themselves, must
yet be supposed to be done without the
evil animus?... .Am I not, then, correct in
supposing that the whole classification of
offences by which British jurisprudence acts
is empirical?”
No! This is not the writing of either
emigrant-mechanic or convict, but of one
with the jargon of law-school still fresh
in his mind, and an awkward page to
fill.
The threads of Lang’s experiences
and “Harris’s” narrative cross and
recross in a most remarkable way.
Both cross the mountains and concern
themselves with “runs” on the Bathurst
Plains, and then both travel down among
the wild limestone country of the Aber-
crombie Ranges. On lonely inland roads
both meet convict-girls who express the
same fear of being sent to the Parra-
matta Female Factory, where they would
lose their flowing hair. Each describes
the minutiae of bush-life at that time. It
could easily be said that these things
were the common experience of those
who lived up country in those days. But
even that does not explain this arresting
parallel.
Lang writes {Botany Bay, p. 179) “In
those good old times I had, in partner-
ship with a gentleman who managed it,
a cattle station about 120 miles from
Sydney, at a place called Bong Bong.”
His friend and partner was a “Mr. Romer,
who was blessed with a numerous off-
spring—seven sons and four daughters.”
This will have a familiar ring to all
readers of Settlers and Convicts. “Harris”
fills a whole chapter (12) of how he and
his partner “R ” search for a new
station in the Goulburn district. At last,
after 26 days’ scouring the countryside,
they arrive at “Bong Bong.” Here they
learn from a stockman of some fine
unoccupied country another two days’
ride away. This was the end of their
quest; and here “Harris” settled down
and paved the way to fortune.
In those days Bong Bong was 81 miles
by road from Sydney, which by Lang’s
statement would place his station 39
miles beyond that township. Turning to
Settlers and Convicts we find that when
“Harris” made his final journey to Sydney
(p. 235) he travelled by dray for about a
day and a quarter at “20 to 30 miles a
day” before he passed Bong Bong, a dis-
tance so similar as to put the stations
of both “Harris” and Lang in an identi-
cal situation.
These suspicions were first aroused
when seeking the background of some of
Lang’s earlier tales, and my interest
quickened when I found that his mother
was a Harris. Checking this intriguing
point with other details from the exten-
sive lists of early settlers compiled by
my friends Tom Mutch and Vern Goodin,
I felt that my earlier assumption was
confirmed and that the true identity of
“Alexander Harris” was within reach.
When Glasgow-born Walter Lang,
Esq., arrived in Port Jackson from Cal-
cutta as passenger on his brig Margaret,
in May, 1812, he carried weighty letters
of introduction to Macquarie which soon
gave him stock from the Government
herds and a grant of 700 acres on South
Creek, near Windsor—a property which
afterwards became the home of Charles
Thompson, one of our earliest poets.
Eager to consolidate his postion in the
colony, Lang laid his fortune at the feet
of Miss Elizabeth Harris —niece of James
Larra, the commercial nabob of Parra-
matta —and they were married by specia
licence within six weeks of his arrival
He soon established a branch house in
Hobart, obtained further land grants in
Tasmania, and died in Sydney at the early
age of 27, in March, 1816 —just eight
and a half months before John Lang was
born.
Within four years the widow Lang
joined her comfortable fortune to that
of Joseph Underwood, who with his
brother James, Simeon Lord and Henry
Kable, formed the inner circle of com-
mercial life and emancipist society. At
his stepfather’s residence, Ashfield Park—
which then spread across the present
suburb of that name —John Lang spent
his boyhood days.
The family fortunes prospered ; four
stepsisters were born, who afterwards
married into colonial society; and as
settlement spread beyond the mountains
Joseph Underwood and his friends
exacted their tribute from the growing
pastoral industry. In this way the gossip
and news of the colony ebbed and flowed
through the spacious portals of Ashfield
Park. We can imagine young John hearing
of Phillip’s day from some old convict,
yarning with assigned servants or ticket-
of-leave men around the stables or listen-
ing to reports from out-stations in the
“new country.”
Then, too, with approaching manhood
there were perhaps times when he travelled
with Joseph on a tour of inspection
to some back-country properties and
experienced the adventure of life in the
bush and long days in the saddle. We
can understand the family embarrass-
ment when, in 1828, a namesake, Joseph
—alias Alexander —Underwood, was
sentenced to seven years on Norfolk
Island for receiving; or when a little
later the bushrangers led by Donohoe
and another of the Underwood clan har-
ried the countryside from Picton to Rich-
mond until “Bold Jack Donahoo” mur-
dered his mate and was eventually shot
himself.
These early memories were refreshed
when he returned from Cambridge, and
later out of the flux of these experiences
and recollections John Lang drew the
material for his tales, and from his
mother’s maiden-name and the scoun-
drelly namesake evoked the mythical
“Alexander Harris” to give him the
anonymity which he sought.
It is singular that Ralph Rashleigh is
another Australian classic which covers
almost precisely the same period as
Settlers and Convicts and that both books
have many hitherto unexplained simi-
larities. Perhaps, if it can be finally
proven that “Alexander Harris” was none
other than John George Lang, it would
be well to see if the same man did not
also shelter behind Giacomo di Rosen-
berg : which would necessitate estab-
fishing whether or not James Tucker was
ever assigned, during the “blank” period
of his career, to Lang or his family,
JOHN EARNSHAW.
Timor Commandos
Colonel Bernard Callinan has made a
very good job of the history of the two
Australian independent companies, 2/2
and 2/4, in Timor in 1941-42, in his
book. Independent Company (Heine-
mann). The companies were picked men
who had been given special commando
training by such as Michael Calvert,
who did so well in this kind of warfare
in Burma. In 14 months they killed
some 1500 Japanese on Timor for a loss
of 40 Australians, coping with odds of
as much as 100 to 1.
In those early days the emphasis was
more on combat and strategy than on
the organisation of supplies which turned
a new page of the book of warfare in
Calvert’s Burma campaign: the Aus-
tralian commandos were about as poorly-
equipped as commandos could be. At
the first landing at Koepang, for
instance:
By evening the tents were up and every-
thing reasonably well organised. The cooks
were on the job, but there was little for
them to do except .boil drinking-water and
make tea, as we were living on bully-beef
and biscuits. The main worry was the
sorting-out of stores. The loading at
Darwin had been very bad. There had
been no effort to keep stores separate, or
to stack them. Cases, including wireless-
sets marked fragile, had been dropped ten
or fifteen feet into the holds, and others
containing canteen goods had been broken
open.
When the unit was finally established
in Portuguese Timor it had no contact
with Darwin until its radio-mechanics
managed to run up a transmitter from
odds-and-ends of equipment, driving its
charger by a series of wheels and bands
that might have been invented by Rack-
ham and ended in handles turned by
Timor natives. And when they asked
Darwin to send acid for their batteries,
they were twice sent distilled water by
mistake.
These were only minor complications
of a highly-complicated little war. Timor
was divided between the Dutch, who
were at war with the Japanese, and the
Portuguese, who were not. When it was
decided to put the 2/2 independent com-
pany into Portuguese Timor, “to protect
it from the Japanese,” the Portuguese
Governor replied that he had not asked
for protection, and a compromise had
to be arranged by which the Australians
landed down the coast from Dili, out of
sight, and infiltrated into the capital like
fairies:
There were few Portuguese or natives
around the streets and the majority of the
shops were closed; the occupation of
Portuguese Timor was complete—as com-
plete as it ever was. There were less than
300 troops in the landing, and there were
never more than 700 in the colony.
Thereafter the Australians were wel-
come on the basis that they accepted
the Portuguese theory that they did not
exist; and inland, surprised at the delight
of the natives at hearing he was “Catol-
lico” like them, the then-Captain Callinan
compromised his immortal soul by
assuring them that all the Australians
were “Catollicos.”
lo this little awkwardness with the
Portuguese over the British war with the
Japanese was added the strain of keep-
ing out of a war put on by the Portu-
guese. Some time after the Japanese
landed, and had begun to march over the
island searching for the Australians, they
left behind the propaganda that the
natives should kill “the white man” —
any white man. So, “bad natives” hav-
ing risen against the Portuguese control,
the Portuguese marched inland on a
campaign of retribution; rtiany bodies
were pushed to the side of bush tracks
to rot, and “good natives” warned the
Australians against drinking from a cer-
tain stream because it had been blocked
with dead natives at the source.
Colonel Callinan has written an almost-
day-by-day record of the campaign,
printing maps showing the Australian
positions (held by a few men to the mile)
at various times, and the courses of the
Japanese offensives. Among the scenes
that stand out from his narrative is the
night-raid led by Captain Laidlaw on
Japanese-occupied Dili, which they shot-
up almost in the wild-west tradition.
There are the Portuguese priest riding
unconcernedly round a hill under mortar-
fire ; the n.c.o. being captured, bashed by
a Japanese officer, well-treated by an-
other, and escaping ; and the joy over the
arrival and co-operation of the Hudsons
in dropping supplies and in bombings;
but the most moving scene is the last
one, on the beach at night, the surf almost
too rough to enable the company to be
taken out to the destroyer, the feeling
that the natives who were being aban-
doned might betray the company at the
last moment to the Japanese, who had
grown strong enough to challenge them.
After the main body of the company
left, a small group stayed on Timor for
a month and a day, but were so harried
by the Japanese as to be of no service
there; and they were taken off by an
American submarine, “the last of the
Australians of Lancer Force.”
NOR’-EASTER
The straw broom of the nor'-east sweeps
the beach.
Yellow, raking straws of sand, stinging,
cleansing, scratch
My raw legs ; but no woman, can I see,
My head hung low, while she is ranting
at me.
Not my day; not a day for dogs, or gulls,
Or canvas flapping. Cleaning the beach,
squalls
Threatening, cumulus cumbersome in the
hills
Of the sea-littoral; this wind kills
All joy of the beach, is a steamroller wife
Of a man by the sea. AH my life
I have been sullenly subdued when she
blows.
Only some little good in all her blustei
shows:
She clep’-'s the beach, sweeps, beats the
sand.
For tne white strand of her morning, I
once took her hand.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
The Cha tterton on Story
Rayne Kruger, a South African
novelist, explains that he wrote the first
draft of Young Villain with Wings
(Longmans) before Tanker or The Spec-
tacle, books which have already estab-
lished his reputation. Young Villain is
about Thomas Chatterton, the scanty
known facts expanded into a fascinat-
ingly plausible account.
Chatterton, of course, was the extra-
ordinary boy who died by his own hand
in 1770, at the age of 17 or 18 (authorities
differ), after having written a quantity
of poetry which has given him a high
and permanent place—but who perpe-
trated a literary and historical fraud
(which nearly deceived Horace Walpole),
by dressing his work up in antique
spelling and phraseology and alleging
that he had discovered the verse and
historical documents pertaining to its
alleged author, Rowley, in ancient manu-
scripts.
Kruger presents Chatterton convinc-
ingly as a likeable character, inclined to
tell boastful lies from an early age, but
also as a credible child and youth some-
times unable to distinguish between
reality and his own fantasies: one who,
having told a lie, can persuade himself
of its truth.
He supposes that, initially, Chatterton’s
frauds happened almost accidentally in
a bid for recognition and patronage.
Then, when he made several lukewarm
efforts to explain the hoax, the literati
of Bristol said, in effect: “It’s very
clever of you to have realised the worth
of these dirty old papers, and more than
clever of you to have deciphered and
translated them, but don’t spoil it all by
pretending that a snotty little half-
educated person like yourself wrote this
wonderful poetry —we weren’t born
yesterday!” 1
And that is the core of this mystery
which Kruger cannot really explain: for
Chatterton was poor, had a mediocre
education and came from a respectable,
intelligent but poorly-educated family.
Furthermore his body of work was done
first as a schoolboy living in a crowded
dormitory, then as an apprentice inden-
tured to a lawyer and living in servants'
quarters without privacy. Although he
went to London in the last year of his
life the work on which his fame rests was
written in Bristol.


■
r
:
k
m
CS
z?
U
I
s
■
n
: >
■’./
#i
'•■.■-■ •■/::
%
m
■
ra
- ■
:
■
We can’t sell you a cool, serene garden
but we can make you comfortable in one
Anthony Horderns hove a large range of outdoor furniture to suit all tastes, and will fit into all surroundings
In the scene above the garden chair on the right is sturdily made in wood, wide-armed and in colours, Green, White, Yellow, Blue. Price £7/4/-.
Set of two Cushions to fit chair, £6/16/- per set.
ƒ f
Seven-piece Wrought-iron Dining Setting, comprising a 4ft. Bin. by 2 ft. Bin. table with a iin.
glass top and six dining chairs with cushions. Table and chairs in ivory or white, and cushions
for chairs in green, blue, red or yellow. Price of setting complete, £79/2/9.
On the left is a Wrought-iron Adjustable Lounge Chair on wheels, with foot-rest. Available in
ivory, white, with three cushions in red, blue, yellow or rust. Price complete, £29/1/9.
“Descon” Hammock Chair, frames in white or black. Rustproofed colours, made in Canvas or
Vynex. Colours, red, blue, green or yellow. Price of a Vynex-covered Chair, £6/8/-.
Price of Canvas-covered chair, £5/16/-.
Comfortable Cane Chairs, with high backs, in mottled design with orange and green lacings. Best
quality cane used. Price, £5/17/9.
Round Mottled Cane Table, with ?in. glass top coloured in orange or green. of tabletop is
24in. diameter, high. Price £9/16/-.
Sun-room chair, with swivel-action back, in matured timber, well finished. Plasticised Duck seat
and back in colours green, blue, yellow and rust. Price £6/16/-.
mm
IS
2u*--
iffl
'• E
L ’PHONE, M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.


Victorian Town's Extraordinary Record
Back to Lindsayville
By "NEWLYN"
50ME towns seem to have a natural
talent for breeding citizens, especi-
ally mining-towns. The boys of
Ballarat and Bendigo, Mt. Morgan
and Charters Towers, Gympie and Kal-
goorlie are scattered freely among the
high places of the world. But there is
perhaps no village in the Commonwealth
which would take a dare from Creswick
(Vic.) to prove that it had a richer lode
of eminence.
Creswick lies on the wing of the
Ballarat area in country where the shep-
herds of William Clarke drove their
sheep to meet the cattle of Captain Hep-
burn and William Bowman, the Coghills
and Birch, who had formed the advance-
guard of overlanding graziers from New
South Wales. Soon new arrivals pushed
into the fertile land between the Bunin-
yong and Warrenheip, Kooroocheang and
Morrokyle, and among them in the early
’forties was Henry Creswick, who settled
oh Creswick Creek with his brothers
John and Charles (who died in 1847).
Henry was a Sheffield (Eng.) lad who at
16 had come to Melbourne in 1840 to
join a firm of Melbourne merchants. He
was sent two years later to form a branch
at Anderson’s Flat, near Ballarat. His
only son, A.T., spread his influence over
a vast area of Australia.
Indeed Harry Peck, who wrote the
Memoirs of a Stockman, declared that,
after the passing of Sir Samuel
Birthplace of Norman Lindsay
75 years ago (on February 23),
Creswick in Victoria is here pros-
pected for some of the other names
in its quite remarkable output.
McCaughey, A. T. Creswick became the
largest individual sheep-owner in the
Commonwealth, based on the old hold-
ings of Jimmy Tyson and supplemented
by numerous purchases in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, He bought stations as
other people in the bush bought horses,
though he was quite a man for horses
himself and had the Victoria Derby and
a Williamstown Cup and a few other
races to his credit and had been master
of the Melbourne Hunt Club until he
was 74. He died in 1939.
The Creswicks and other pastoralist
giants, however, are only a solid core —
a main layer in Creswick’s colorful popu-
lation, but, after all, the normal kind of
magnate expected in such pioneering dis-
tricts, who might have become the only
heirs to attention if Lewers’ Leads, the
Australasia and Tributaries, the Berry
and the Hepburn Leads had not turned
out a matter of 1,750,0000 z. of gold and
£2,800,000 in dividends. It was the gold
that began to bring the adventurous to
Creswick in the early ’fifties and the gold-
spirit which brought out the character of
its younger inhabitants in a later age.
All sorts of people went to Creswick.
More sorts came out of it. The present
Governor of N. S. Wales, Sir John
Northcott, was a Creswickian, and the
town’s honor-boards commemorating
World War I bear the names of more than
one member of his family. The Hon.
W. G. Spence, grand old pioneer of
Labor, came from Creswick, which,
therefore, can, in a sense, claim to be
the cradle of the Australian Labor party,
John Curtin, a Prime Minister, was
another native son. Mr, Menzies’s mother
was a Creswick girl. And a loud peculiar
laugh which used to haunt the Legislative
Assembly of Victoria not so many years
ago—it seemed to come from nowhere
and permeate the whole building—be-
longed to Sir Alexander Peacock, once
almost king of the range around the
town. Other politicians of various
calibres hailing from the region are scat-
tered through history, some forgotten,
some not, in the most extraordinary
corners —Sir Arthur Trethowan, in the
years between the wars a mighty man in
wheat and in the N.S.W. Legislative
Council; Brawn and Hagelthorn of the
Victorian Ministry.
The churches were provided with Arch-
deacon Peacock, with the Rev. Harold
Overend (formerly chairman of the Tas-
manian Methodist Assembly), with the
Rev. Edward Nye (Colonel-Chaplain with
the A.I.F. on Gallipoli), with the Rev.
J. R. Fiddian (erstwhile Moderator of
the Presbyterian Church both in South
Australia and Victoria), with Professor
Hewitson (for long the dominating power
of the Presbyterian Church in New Zea-
land).
The law boasted of Sir Hayden Starke,
Justice of the High Court, who took some
of Creswick’s severe climate with him
wherever he went —he once told the
writer, on a particularly draughty day in
the Melbourne courts, “I never get
pneumonia; I come from Creswick” —
and Captain James Edwards, who
was a magistrate in Pretoria (South
Africa). Science and education were
thoroughly well represented. Professor
Laby’s father was mayor of the
town. Dr. John Leach, the orni-
thologist, learnt the elements of his pro-
fession around the hills and valleys of
the district. James Mcßae, Victorian
Director of Education (Percy Lindsay
taught him to draw), and W. S. Corr,
headmaster of The King’s School, Parra-
matta, not to mention David Sutherland,
principal of the great Lahore Medical
College in India, all called the place home,
as did Joseph Reed and Henry King, who
at one and the same time were Surveyors-
General of Victoria and Western Aus-
tralia, King being succeeded in his job
by his old townie P. S. Camm.
Peter Jackson became chief-engineer
to B.H.P. in Newcastle, F. G. Brinsden
g.-m. of a Kalgoorlie goldmine, Wm.
Frazer manager of the head-office branch
of the Bank of N. S. Wales and James
Gibson chief surveyor of the great min-
ing concern of Eckstein, in South Africa.
Medicine had its contingent. Dr.
James Gardiner was a pioneer of X-ray
treatment; Dr. A. T. Nisbet, who died
not long back in Sydney, was one of the
most noted of deep X-ray therapists, a
pioneer in that branch and an active
founder of the Australian and N.Z. Asso-
ciation of Radiologists, which named its
library after him. Dr. Ralph Stevenson
went with Sir Morrell Mackenzie to
attend the father of Kaiser Wilhelm in
Berlin, and men like Dr. T. A. Wilson,
president of the Ballarat branch of the
B.M.A. and Mayor of Creswick, were
Victorian celebrities.
Two Creswickian nurses were matrons
of large hospitals in World War I
Sister Alice Pritchard, who had the 42nd
British Hospital with 120 nurses under
her command, and Sister Leila Brown,
who commanded a Canadian hospital
just, or nearly, as big.
In music there was Frank Wright, who
became musical-director of the London
County Council and a noted adjudicator
at band championships in England; also
“Navarre,” baptised Alex Wright, a
famous star of the 8.8. C. in an earlier
day.
There was Jim Grahame (Gordon),
who was described by Henry Lawson as
the best mate he ever had, and who used
to say that he was born in a. dray at
Bloody Gully. There were athletes like
Sergeant Gill Adam, who won the
General Wavell Cup for boxing in the
Middle East, and William Horn, who
wrestled Donald Dinnie, and numerous
captains of teams of other cities where
the version of Irish hurling which is
known as football in Victoria is played.
Last, but not least by a long way, Cres-
wick produced Norman and the rest of
the Lindsays, who were almost numerous
enough to people a town by themselves.
His old school-chum John Grahame,
whose Early Creswick provides much of
the information in this article, nominates
Percy as the favorite —“nothing ruffled
Percy’s imperturbable bonhomie, and he
was liked by everybody.” Also among
the Lindsays, of course, Lionel (to be-
come one of Creswick’s garland of
knights), Robert, Daryl, now director of
Melbourne National Gallery, and Ruby
and two more girls. All kept their dark
secret that they were grandchildren of a
famous missionary of the Cannibal
Islands.
The listing could include, too, the
managing-directors of three or four great
Melbourne firms and a legion of leading
professional men and civil servants.
And Creswick’s is a still-lengthening
roll of fame.
The Art of Mountaineering
'THE question is often posed: Why
do men take up njountain-climb-
ing as a hobby? The answer could
be perfectly simple.
They may have decided that their
first choice, stamp-collecting, could
prove too hazardous; what if a
stamp they had acquired from some
swamp-filled, fever-ridden South
American republic carried on it the
germs of a deadly, mysterious disease
which could grip them as they were
pasting the stamp in their book?
Or they may have decided against
taking up gardening on the grounds
that some plants they grew might
produce flowers equally as big and
colorful as those illustrated on the
seed-packet, and that the consequent
shock might do grave harm to their
nervous-systems.
Some who, so to speak, take to
the mountains do so because they’ve
been intoxicated vicariously by the
descriptions given by the romantic
novelists, and, eager to get a sort of
free drink, rush up the cliffs to
breathe in the air that is “like cham-
pagne.” Nothing will deter this kind
of mountaineer from scaling craggy
peaks and even peaky crags. Let
earth-bound clods be satisfied with
air that is only like air.
It is, in fact, this aerial Moet 99
which constitutes the mountaineer’s
chief risk. He may be clinging to
a sheer face and suddenly the cham-
pagne air, bubbling under his nose,
will impel him to sneeze. To remove
one hand from the rock so that he
may place a finger under his nostrils
in an endeavor to avoid a violent
bout of sternutation would be to
invite disaster. Only the most reck-
less climbers ascend high mountains
without the spring-clip peg, which is
standard equipment, clamped on
their noses. Certainly having to
breathe through the mouth may
result in inhaling various species of
lepidoptera which have their habitat
in high places, but, after all, they
can’t have both safety and comfort,
too.
Quite apart from the possibility of
his being hurled from his precarious
position by the internal upheaval it
may cause, the climber who gives
vent to a very loud sneeze, if he is
operating in the snow- and ice-
covered Alps, may cause an even
greater disaster.
Take the case of my Uncle Hudi-
bras, a noted glacier-fancier. He had
reached a precarious peak, and,
sharp-set after his arduous climb,
took from the small ice-box he
carried on his back the lunch his
wife had prepared for him. It was
a cold salad —such a repast, he
deemed, would be in keeping with
his gelid surroundings, and too en-
thusiastically he shook pepper over
his tomato.
The resultant sneeze, which he
couldn’t stop, reverberated with a
tremendous roar around and about v
every Alp, and such were the dis-
turbances it set up in Nature’s deli-
cately-balanced masses of ice and
snow in those rare altitudes that
half a million tons of the stuff, as
well as a couple of contiguous
mountains, went crashing into the
valley.
He found, too, that his guide had
vanished. He had, however, suc-
ceeded only that morning in borrow-
ing ten pounds from the guide, so
Uncle accepted his loss of a return-
ing companion with that philosophy
for which he is famous. He himself
had to be rescued by helicopter.
Thereafter he always had pineapple
with his salads instead of tomatoes.
The practice among mountaineers
of roping themselves together has its
obvious advantages, but it is a de-
batable point whether the popular
method of tying the rope around
each man’s waist is the best.
Should one man slip, what happens
when the others brace themselves
to take the strain? The weight of
his falling body will suddenly
tighten the rope around their waists,
resulting in such a violent constric-
tion of their middles as could well
result in the fracture of a stomach-
bone or the squeezing into a hope-
lessly-tangled “bunch of grapes” of
a few dozen yards of intestine. >ln
either case the mountaineer would
scarcely feel quite at his ease to face
the formidable task of hauling his
hapless companion back to safety.
There are alternatives. The rope
could be tied around the ankles.
This has the great advantage that a
sudden constriction would affect no
vital organ; the slight disadvantage
is that mobility may be somewhat
impaired.
The answer is solved completely
for those mountaineers who have
played or understudied the title-role
in “The Man They Could Not Hang.”
With the rope tied around a neck
which has already proved its ability
to withstand the most violent de-
mands on it, the stomach is thus free
to assist hands, feet, teeth, nose and
eyebrows in maintaining a grip on
precipitous places.
The question of clothing-suitability
is most important. For instance, top-
coats should either be sleeveless or
at most elbow-length; palm-length
sleeves would cause annoyance by
continually catching in peaks. For
the well-dressed mountaineer a
Homburg must be preferred to a
Panama. For the extra-cautious
climber, however, the hard-hitter
offers not only distinguished appear-
ance but adequate protection should
he be the target for attacks by an
enraged eagle who thinks its eyrie is
being threatened.
Boots are another most important
item. They must never squeak, for
the same reason that the climber
mustn’t sneeze. Some favor the
suctidn-cup-studded sole. Whilst this
may enable the climber to go up like
a fly, the added exertion needed to
pull them off the rock-face tends to
offset this advantage. The possi-
bility of pulling the upper clean off
the sole, leaving the climber the
grim prospect, if he doesn’t over-
balance, of going down the mountain
in one bare foot, must also not
be overlooked.
Bo.
The National Sport?
RULES of the International Olympic
Committee ordain that demonstra-
tions of a national sport of the country
holding the Games should be staged
before the crowds attending. Australian
Rules football, surf-lifesaving demon-
strations and boomerang-throwing have
been suggested.
This has aroused indignation in Foot-
scray, where two-up has always been
considered the sport of the nation. It
is pointed out that lifesaving is no more
a sport than bushfire-fighting, that Aus-
tralian Rules football is sectional, not
national, and that boomerang-throwing,
if it ever was a sport, is now archaic and
only practised for the delectation of
tourists.
Personally, I nominate beer-drinking.
The Australian beer-sport is a thoroughly
focused individual. He will sacrifice his
comfort and convenience, his work, his
art, rather than neglect his practice, and
is prepared to suffer any indignity, abuse
or degradation rather than forgo the
opportunity to exercise his virtuosity at
emptying a niner.
Certainly Melbourne’s drinkers have
just been through an exhausting Christ-
mas season, but, undaunted, they have
already gone into training for the Royal
visit; and there are plenty of champions
who would be prepared to start right now
on a course of the most rigorous train-
ing for the Olympics,
X.S.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 17, 1954
VoL 75 — No, 3862
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P, H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
COMMONWEALTH COERCION?
The Queen’s visit has somewhat blanketed political
issues save for those which affect the shoving Cahill
and his fellow limelight-hogs. There is little indica-
tion in the Press that Australia is on the edge of a
national election campaign which may have profound
consequences on the economy.
Mr. Cahill’s behavior in the past few weeks,
involving every slight and insult that he can offer to
the Commonwealth, has raised the important issue of
national status. It was intended by the Commonwealth
Constitution that the Federation should be supreme
wherever there was conflict of law or duty within the
Constitution. The vice-regal, deputy in Australia is a
Governor- General, the Parliament at Canberra is the
Parliament of the Commonwealth, and the Queen’s
title includes no reference to her being Queen of
N. S. Wales separately from her Queenship of Aus-
tralia ; but she obviously holds a divided Australian
Crown according to Mr. Cahill, an outlook which
gives him even less claim to being logical than he has
to being photogenic.
If the Government parties are wise Mr. Cahill’s
behavior will be a very lively issue at the elections,
not only on the question of sovereignty but on the
question of freedom ; for his compulsory-unionism is
not merely an N. S. Wales matter. It affects and
endangers the freedom of the whole Commonwealth.
No party propaganda seems to have put this clearly
to date, though Mr. J. P. Abbott, formerly a Federal
Minister, has been trying in vain to raise public interest
in the matter with arguments which have a lot of
validity. N. S. Wales has had some ugly glimpses of
the potentialities of compulsory-unionism as adminis-
tered by people like Cahill and his class-war polit-
bureau.
It is a matter in which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment might well act before the elections, for it is one
that calls for immediate safeguards against dangers of
which Mr. Menzies himself is obviously perfectly aware,
judging by some of his Gwydir-campaign
statements. If Dr. Evatt were to become Prime Minister
at the next election there is little doubt but that
compulsory - unionism, if valid, would become
practical politics for the whole Commonwealth with
the backing, perhaps, of the five “Labor” States. It
is a plank in the Federal “Labor” platform, dormant
as socialisation was until nationalisation of banks
became an issue, but far from forgotten. Dr.
Evatt is so close to his fellow-banqueteer of N. S.
Wales and to other members of the N. S. Wales
Cabinet that there is little doubt about what might
happen if “Labor” returned to power. And compulsion
would be a far more serious thing if it were universal
than if it merely affects State awards as it does.
Mr. Abbott has suggested that the matter is so
vital that the Commonwealth Government should take
immediate steps to hold a referendum on the matter,
and there seems to be sound sense in the suggestion.
Only through a constitutional referendum can the peril
be permanently averted. Not merely would the
country, in case of a “Labor” victory at the polls, be
in danger from Federal action, but from State action.
For the five “Labor” States (as Mr. Menzies pointed
out in Gwydir) would be in a position to offer to
delegate their powers to the Commonwealth so that
it might make the grip of the unions absolute wherever
“Labor” rules. Section 51 (xxxvii) of the Constitution
provides that the Commonwealth Parliament may
legislate on:^ —
Matters referred to the Parliament of the Com-
monwealth by the Parliament or Parliaments of any
State or States, but so that the law shall extend
only to the States by whose Parliaments the matter
is referred, or which afterwards adopt the law.
Thus, by agreement with Dr. Evatt, Mr. Cahill could
secure that not only the workers of N. S. Wales under
State awards, who have now been grabbed and
manacled, but that all those under Federal awards,
should be scooped in as well. And the same could be
made to apply in Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania and
W.A.—though not yet in South Australia.
Some of those politicians who are always affected
with lack of initiative toward election-time are appar-
ently apt to feel that it is too late to act in the matter ;
but this is not true. A referendum could scarcely be
prepared for in time to be held along with the election,
though it might be possible if the bill were taken very
early in the session. But there is no need to hold the
poll till after the election —indeed, there are many
advantages in not doing so. Section 128 of the Con-
stitution, Shich giyeg the Government the means of
THE MAN WHO'S COMING AROUND
averting the danger permanently through an amend-
ment of the Constitution, provides that a referendum
on a proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution
should be held “not less than two nor more than six
months” after the passage of the referendum bill
through both Houses of Parliament.
Passed, the Act would make it mandatory for
whichever party won to take the referendum, and if
by any chance or chicanery “Labor” should win, it
would find itself faced with the stone wall of public
opinion it it attempted to put its platform-plank into
effect either for the whole Commonwealth or in single
States at the solicitation of people like Cahill.
The position all the more calls for safeguards be-
cause of the very insecure Senate position. As matters
stand there at present there is no knowing how long any
Government, "Labor” or Liberal, might last when
elected next May. The Government can come back
with a tbiimDimr maioritv and the full aooroval of the
electors, but it is an appalling travesty on democracy
that two or three deaths in the decaying Upper House
could change the whole complexion of affairs a fort-
night after the victory and leave a “Labor” Senate
majority in the ascendancy. That is another matter
wh ch the Government should consider as requiring
urgent attention.
b
No Longer Eager
With a May election now a certainty. Federal “Labor”
is grumbling that the Government is trying to capi-
talise the reflected popularity lingering from the
Royal visit. The charge doesn’t stand up to analysis.
If emotions roused by the Queen’s tour really turn
swinging votes towards the party in power then
“Labor” should be the gainer, not the Menzies Govern-
ment. In five of the six States “Labor” Premiers
will be her Majesty’s hosts ; only in Canberra, repre-
sented by a voteless member, will the Federal Govern-
ment bask in the Royal sunshine —and there for less
than five days. True, the übiquity of the grinning
Premier Cahill may set the popularity-theory working
in reverse. But Menzies can scarcely be blamed
for that.
This will be no rush election. The 20th Parliament
was elected on April 28, 1951; it has lasted longer
than most of its predecessors, and it was months ago
accepted that it would be dissolved shortly after the
Queen’s departure.
Opposition complaints of indecent haste offer a
rather strange contrast to earlier eagerness for an
election. A year ago—even six months ago—Evatt,
Calwell, Ward and the rest were happy warriors spoil-
ing for a fight. Judging by their then-recorded utter-
ances, they didn’t really expect a fight at all; their
champions had but to enter the lists on polling-day and
the Government would come toppling down. The
only real fight, one gathered, would be the scramble
for discarded portfolios. But now that is all changed.
The reason is not far to seek. A year ago the
Government’s political stocks were low. This was
shown in theory by public-opinion polls and proved
beyond doubt at by-elections, including—at the nadir
of Liberal-Country-party fortunes —the loss of the
Flinders seat. Early last year “Labor’s” triennial
conference in Adelaide was still trying to perpetuate
the lie, first manufactured for the 1949 elections, that
Liberal-Country-party policy advocated the creation
of an unemployment-pool. Official figures were
already beginning to show that the number of
unemployed, never very high at any time since the
war, was on the decline, but Ward and others kept on
blatantly asserting that the figures were cooked.
It was perfectly clear at that time that “Labor,”
while raising a hullabaloo about an army of
unemployed that didn’t exist, was living in joyful
expectancy that one soon would exist and that the
party would be able to scramble back to power over
its backs. Dr. Evatt was insistent in his disavowals
of this charge. He was reported as telling a Brisbane
audience during the Senate campaign: “I would
rather lose 1000 elections than see any unemployment
in Australia.” A fortnight later, in Geelong, he
reduced the stake to 100 elections. But his very
insistence and his continued recourse to the subject
indicated that even if he did not wish to see men
thrown out of work he was not averse to using—and
even arousing—the fear of unemployment for his
political ends.
As 1953 wore on it became more and more
evident that the unemployment puddle, instead of
growing into a pool, was steadily drying up. Each
month the number of persons on unemployment-relief
dropped, until at the end of the year it was down to
12,914, a fall of nearly 30,000 on the figures for
January, 1953. So confident was the Government that
the improvement would last that it was able to
announce a 25 per cent, increase in the immigration-
target for the coming year.
Unemployment, as an election-winner for
“Labor,” has gone with the windy talk that helped to
beget it. And with it have gone most of the other
issues which a year ago seemed likely, to help Evatt
achieve his ambition of becoming Prime Minister.
Inflation has been slowed down from a gallop to a
crawl, and import-restrictions unpopular but
economically unavoidable two years ago—are being
progressively relaxed. Taxation, though still high, has
been reduced, and further reductions can reasonably
be expected next Budget. On that point Dr. Evatt,
despite his protests, can make no promises.
In addition to the loss of most of the ammunition
on which “Labor’s” campaign relied and in the use of
which its wordy warriors had been almost exclusively
trained, the Opposition has also been handicapped in
recent months by the maladroit conduct of its junior
ally in New South Wales. The leg-irons which the
Cahill Government has been endeavoring to place on
the people of New South Wales, with the apparent
approval of Dr. Evatt, are not going to make Federal
“Labor’s” run for office any easier, and the same
crowd’s attempt to gag the Press will cramp the style of
the party’s speakers all over Australia.
Taking it all round, it is not surprising that the
election swimming-pool which earlier seemed so inviting
to “Labor” now has a chilly look about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia and the Queen
London papers appear to be puzzled
and a little chagrined by the reception
given by Australian crowds to the Queen.
They are inclined to stress the rowdiness
of Sydney —“this vociferous city” .
“police unable to control crowds”
(“Times”). It is stated that the country
is in a “Royal frenzy,” and they record
cries of “Good on you, Phil; good on
you, Liz.”
These manifestations may be prevalent,
but they are not generally observed. The
reaction which strikes most observers not
looking for sensation is the patience of
the waiting legions, the tears, the awed
silence which is apt to suddenly prevail
as the Royal visitors arrive on any
scene.
No credit is being given in the English
Press to the fact that the event is unique
in our annals. The English provinces
are accustomed to Royal progresses, and
take them as part of the national life.
For Australians the appearance of the
Queen is as rare as the appearance of a
woman from Mars, and the sensations
induced by this fact are intensified by
the unexpected youth and beauty of the
Royal visitor and by the instinctive reali-
sation of the weight of the burdens she
carries.
It would be more just not to lay the
stress on the exuberance of the welcome
but to record its triumph. For surely it
is an almost miraculous phenomenon to
see the whole continent captured and
captivated by a young girl who exercises
none of the arts of glamor and who is
simple and serious and devoted to Consti-
tutional tasks little understood by the
average Australian. It is amazing to note
that the fire-eating “Labor” members,
Red republicans to a man a few years
ago, headed by a Premier who was a
repudiationist and a follower of the
extreme Left, and a Deputy-Premier
who was an actual Communist-party
official at the time when the party regu-
larly conducted an abusive campaign
against the Monarchy, are among the most
ardent strugglers to be near the Royal
person. It is encouraging to find that the
Socialists whose creed involves the com-
plete destruction of monarchies are like
wild-cats when there are invitation-cards
in the offing, and the spectacle of so many
Celtic voices cheering the Monarchy in
centres like Bathurst, Lismore and Wagga
is in itself a revelation and an inspiration.
Altogether the programme is an awe-
some spectacle of mass affection, as every
husband within reach of the wireless
knows. More dinners have been late, more
shirts unwashed, more bargain-sales un-
attended, more bridge-parties derelict dur-
ing the past week than at any other time
in Australian virtually every
woman in the Commonwealth devoting
herself singlemindedly to following her
enthroned idol step-by-step round the
continent.
The welcome has proved a complete
answer to Socialist propaganda that the
world is tired of monarchies and the best
part of it has been given by the Socialists
themselves. It has done more to tighten
up the links between this country and
Britain than the speeches of a million
statesmen could do. Henceforward for
a long time London will be to most
Australian women something for which
London was never famous before: the
home of Elizabeth II —so far as Australia
is concerned, the most successful Ambas-
sador of all time.
Progressive Restraint
In reporting the Queen’s arrival in and
her first week in Australia the Press of
the Commonwealth treated Sydney with
a kindliness and generosity that were
almost unanimous and certainly were
without parallel at any time since Federa-
lon. Melbourne forgot for the moment
her traditional rivalry with the older city,
Brisbane that Sydney halts too many
tourists who should be tasting the climate
ot sunny Queensland. Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart dropped the role of injured
httle sisters and remembered that the
Mew South Wales capital was the mother
city of the Commonwealth, Praise was
freely lavished upon Sydney for the
warmth of its welcome, the thoroughness
of its preparations, the beauty of its
harbor spectacle, its glorious weather and
its enthusiastic crowds.
But as the days went by a subtle change
crept into the comment. There was still
praise for warmth and enthusiasm, but
there seemed to be a feeling that the
warmth could be a little less oppressive
and the enthusiasm a trifle more re-
strained. When the Royal car was de-
layed through the press of crowds in
Parramatta-road the general attitude was
that that sort of thing must not be
allowed to happen in our city, and when
the guests of Sydney’s aldermen stared
and gawped at the Queen every other
city felt sure that its aldermen’s friends
would be warned in time and would be-
have with more restraint.
Possibly it was on account of this re-
solve that Sydney “Sun-Herald” found
itself reporting of the Canberra welcome
“The official enclosure rose as if per-
plexed about how to behave, and clapped
decorously. Those who cheered seemed
self-conscious. Some said it was a typical
Canberra welcome, essentially well-
behaved.” The Canberra sobersides later
let themselves go to the extent of a few
hip-hips, but the incident suggests that if
the good-behavior complex spreads the
tour officials will be in for some em-
barrassing moments. A Royal progress
without enthusiasm is almost as unthink-
able as a Royal progress without
Royalty.
If Mr. Harrison, as Minister-in-Charge
of the tour, is subject to nightmares, he
will find fruitful material for nocturnal
imaginings in contemplating what will
happen if each capital decides to show
its loyalty by outdoing the others in
politeness and restraint. By the time
Melbourne has outshone Hobart in
politeness and decorum and Brisbane’s
Old-World courtesy has put them both
to shame Mr. Harrison will bring his
guests to an Adelaide in which everyone
is ready to apologise if they hear a pin
drop. After that, Perth, in a final demon-
stration of Australia’s good manners, will
stage a Royal progress unequalled for
civic restraint and politeness since Lady
Godiva’s celebrated ride through Coven-
try.
But, of course, it won’t quite come to
that. Some irrepressible individualists
are bound to upset things by cheering!
The Passion To Ban
With sundry State Governments pre-
paring legislation to censor books, news-
papers and magazines on the grounds
that the public—particularly the youthful
public (who display nothing like the
same interest in pornography as do their
elders) —should have their morals pro-
tected by Acts of Parliament, it was
natural that the jailing and fining of
British printers and publishers of obscene
books should get headlines.
But what is overlooked is that the
offenders were dealt with under a long-
standing British law against publishing
obscenities, and that it was a jury which
decided the cases. The Australian propo-
sitions visualise the setting-up of the
inevitable commissions under new legis-
lation, though existing legislation has
always conferred on the authorities
powers to prosecute for this sort of thing
And Australians have had plenty of
warning of how justice can go awry when
administered by commissions.
Whether or not the convicted printers
and publishers in London deserved their
punishment, a startling sidelight is the
comment made by London “Evening
Standard.” The paper said that the
sentences were “an answer” to a question
asked by a Mr. Justice Hilbery when a
young man was sentenced to death last
November for battering a girl to death.
He did it with a chair-leg wrapped in
cloth. On the scene was one of the
books which led to the punishment of the
publishers, and in it was a passage where
a character used a piece of wood in
cloth and used it as a bludgeon. During
the trial Mr. Justice Hilbery asked what
action was being taken against the pub-
lishers of the book.
There are worse scenes of sex, sadism,
and murder in both the Bible and
Shakspeare than in any of the cheap sex-
crime novels of today. One sample should
be sufficient. Take Scene iv of Act II
of “Titus Andronicus”:
Another part of the Forest.
Enter Demetrius and Chiron, 'with
Lavinia ravished; her hands cut off, and
her tongue cut out.
This follows spoken threats of what
the brothers would do to Lavinia, her
pleas to them and to their mother for
mercy—a mother who, after seeing her
sons drag the girl off to her frightful fate,
herself seeks her “lovely Moor” to revel
in illicit love.
If that had been found at the scene
of a rape-and-murder crime, would the
judge have demanded punishment of the
printers and publishers of Shakspeare?
Which, to anybody with a claim to
intelligence, illustrates the dangers of
legislators setting out to censor the arts,
whether or not some people debase them
for profit.
How It Works
Advocates of compulsory unionism in
N. S. Wales have had much to say about
a similar law having operated in Queens-
land for some years and nobody there
finding it oppressive. Well, here’s the
story of a Mrs. Hahn, as published in
“Muster,” the journal of the Graziers’
Association.
This Mrs. Hahn was a housekeeper for
N. B, Watts, of Zonia Downs station,
Nelia (Q.). She has a small child. She
was ordered to take an A.W.U. ticket,
refused, and both she and her employer
were prosecuted.
The woman told the court she had
strong conscientious objections to join-
ing an organisation of whose political
methods she disapproved, and which had
objectives completely opposed to her
personal ideas and principles.
Her views on this, she continued, were
the stronger because her mother and other
relatives were resident in Indonesia, and
only a few years ago Australian unions
had banned the sending of food and
medical supplies to the Dutch in
Indonesia. She feared that, if she were
forced to join a union, she could at any
time in the future be in the intolerable
position of being a member of an organi-
sation taking action against her people.
Her employer told the court that he
believed Mrs. Hahn to be sincere in her
objections. He had refused to sack her
because her work was excellent and he
was not prepared to cause her harm by
worry and financial loss. He added that
apart from his own feelings the district
would have thought badly of him if he
had sacked her.
The magistrate, forced by Queensland
law (which makes no provision for
conscientious objectors) to find both
people guilty, expressed his sympathy,
but said Mrs. Hahn must either join the
A.W.U. or Watts would be forced to
sack her. He then imposed nominal fines.
There is no reason to doubt the stories
told to the court by these people. That
such a thing could occur in what we are
pleased to regard as free and enlightened
Australia shows how stupid and tyran-
nical both unions and legislators have
become.
"A Friend on the Council" 1
There is rather a sinister ring about
the phrase in Sydney, but in Melbourne
at the present time it means quite a lot
to have a friend on the City Council,
because every one of the 33 of them
has forty double-tickets for the Royal
Ball. Philosophers claim a man is fortu-
nate to have one friend on whom he can
really rely, but on an occasion like this an
alderman probably finds it difficult enough
to narrow down the field of his tried-
and-trusteds to two score. Still, it has
been done, and a week ago 1320 happy
Melburnians (plus wives or otherwise)
were proudly displaying pieces of card-
board which established their bona fides
as best friends of the City Council.
But even among best friends there are
apparently degrees of best-friendship. If
there aren’t, there’ll have to be on Ball
night, for only eight out of each batch
of forty will be invited upstairs to the
“special” supper; the other 32 (plus
wives, etc.) will have to line-up for sand-
wiches and cakes down below. The task
of sorting out their best best friends from
among their best friends without making
bad friends of erstwhile good friends is
one thing that is keeping the councillors
(and their wives) awake at night.
Just what procedure will be followed
in sorting out the sheep from the goats
has not been disclosed, but the general
opinion is that two kinds of tickets will
be issued. If this is so the function will
repeat the history of the famous “Seidlitz-
powder” Ball given by Lord Beauchamp
shortly after taking office as Governor
of New South Wales in 1899.
On that occasion the secret didn’t leak
out until the holders of white invitation-
cards arrived at Government House at
9 pm-, to find that the early doors had
been opened at 8.45 p.m. to holders of
blue cards, and that these guests had
already been presented. Various explana-
tions were advanced in justification of the
color-line, but none of them was satis-
factory to the whites.
Louise Mack, who then wrote the
Bulletin’s “Woman’s Letter,” recorded
that the blues fizzed, too. She also noted
that the supper arrangements were very
strictly policed:
Xhe wounds of one well-known citizen
are unspeakably painful. He took into
supper a lady who asked him presently to
go and find her daughter, a debutante,
and bring her in also. Ho went out of the
supper-room, found the debutante, and was
returning with her on his arm, when an
aide, stationed outside the supper-room,
swooped down on him. “Pardon me, you
have been in before,”
Guests at the Melbourne Royal Ball
will do well to remember this anecdote.
It may save them the humiliation of
being unspeakably pained.
Universities and Money
Professor Harry Messel, of the Physics
Department of Sydney University, who
has sought, and Mr. Adolph Basser, a
man of means, who has given, the money
necessary to provide the university with
an electronic brain which y/ill place Aus-
tralian science in a position to reach the
forefront of the world in the study of
cosmic rays, have both broken what was
fast becoming an old Australian custom
—the custom which denies professors
the right to raise money themselves for
their work and prescribes that moneyed
men should rarely give to the support
of scholastic causes.
Time was when the university received
great gifts with some regularity, and that
was in a day when there wa-s far less
money m Australia than there is now.
But the last generation has gradually
seen a decline in this spirit.
No Challises, Peter Nicol Russells or
Walter and Eliza Halls have turned up
for a very long time among the records
of the Probate Office, and support by the
living for the faculties of the various
universities is dwindling.
Possibly this is due to the onset of the
Welfare State idea ; but the fact remains
that modern income-tax methods make
large donations easier for firms and indi-
viduals than they have ever been before,
and that it is the type of man who can
afford to give whose children benefit
most readily from the improvement of
university standards.
Great industries would not miss the
sums which would place the scientific
faculties of any State university on a
really modern footing and make it a
Mecca for the students of the world. But
it is perhaps wrong to blame the potential
givers for not giving. Professor Messel
has shown that if the need exists and
there is a man capable of stating it clearly
and forcefully there are donors ready and
willing.
At the same time the sort of campaign
which he has carried on should not be
necessary. Each key industry’s members,
with a minute cost to themselves in view
of taxation concessions, could stand god-
father to some great research project.
Professors should be able to devote
themselves to the work for which they
primarily are paid. To relieve them of
the duty of money-raising, which has
become imperative with many of them,
each State capital needs a live university
auxiliary of businessmen and enthusiasts.
A Palmerston Needed
Only “slight progress” is reported from
the Berlin Conference, and even this
seems to be more the product of diplo-
matic optimism than of reality.
The Russians hold out for the inclu-
sion of Red China in the discussions.
Their objective is to bring that country
into the world scene and finally dispose
of Chiang Kai-shek, something that it
is impossible for the United States to
concede in general terms, though all
countries are ready to go some way in
having a peace conference on the specific
subjects of Korea and Indo-China with
Peking’s representatives present.
On other issues, the Russians are
playing their normal game. Their plans
for the settlement of Europe involve
undertakings by the conquered Austria
and Germany that Western Allied troops
should go out while Russian troops
remain in or adjacent, and that after the
peace both countries shall remain help-
less at the mercy of Russia, not free to
make defensive alliances with the West.
As Mr. Dulles declared, “some poisonous
proposals in the rather peculiar sand-
wich” which Mr. Molotov has served
to the conference for its Austrian
banquet would establish a “free
Austria without freedom and without
independence.
Mr. Molotov’s plan, in fact, amounted
to an indefinite occupation of Vienna by
the Russians, that lovely but wretched
city becoming “a defenceless island sur-
rounded by a sea of Russian soldiers.
The same excuses are being made for
the retention of Russian troops m
Austria as were made for the insertion
of the same arrangement in the peace
treaties with Rumania and Hungary.
And the same result would be inevitable
—that in very short order Austria would
find itself behind the Iron Curtain.
Russia had given no specific reply to
the suggestion for a conference on Korea
by the end of the week. But with the
Kremlin’s satellite troops storming up to
{Continued on next page )


Luang Prabang, the Laos capital in
Indo-China, and hundreds of thousands
of men hanging about the hills of Korea
armed to the teeth, Malenkov and his
Government are in no hurry. They are
said to have proposed that the Big Five,
including Red China, should discuss the
matter without the supposed official
participants, North and South Korea.
Red China has claimed up till recently
that it had no part in the war and that
the million or so Chinese troops
involved were sturdy peasant volunteers
moved to cross the border and help a
neighbor by their indignation at United
States aggression. So that the Russian
stand speaks for itself, and fully reveals
the treachery and deception which lies
behind Russian and Chinese policy.
What is needed at Berlin is not an
Eden (a suave optimist) or a Dulles (an
amateur diplomat with a turn for the
biting phrase which gives the enemy an
excuse for resentment without spurring
him to action), but a Palmerston who
would bring matters to an issue and strip
the Kremlin’s humbug of its cloak of
speciousness by refusing to continue the
interminable arguments, and insisting on
either action or a complete rupture of
relationships between the Western and
Eastern world. Patience as a weapon
seems now to have failed. The U.S.S.R.
is unashamedly, if its proceedings mean
anything, going on with its plan for
world conquest, and its willingness to
hold discussions is not based on a desire
for peace but on a plan of propaganda
connected with future hostilities.
POLITICAL POINTS
There have been comments on the
brevity of the Queen’s speech at the
opening of the N. S. Wales Parliament.
If only Ministers and members would
take the hint!
• •
N. S. Wales Parliament met briefly
yesterday to present an Address-in-Reply
to her Majesty’s speech. There’s to be a
short session next month, business so far
undisclosed.
• e
Most of the bills to which Royal assent
was reported on the day the Queen
opened N. S. Wales Parliament were
routine affairs, but for one the date was
happily chosen. This was the King
George V and King George VI Memorial
Bill, authorising the erection of the
memorial gates and fountain in the Sand-
ringham Memorial Gardens, Hyde Park.
The memorial was opened by the Queen
next day.
• o
Reports from New Zealand of an out-
break of psittacosis, better known as
parrot’s disease, thought to have come
from this side of the Tasman, caused
naturalists in Canberra to cast interested
glances at “Cocky” Calwell. There was
no need for alarm; “Labor’s” deputy-
leader shows no sign of infection.
• o
The pure editorial humbug of one
Sydney newspaper was shown during the
Queen’s visit. On an inside page it was
beating up a campaign about the “in-
human” task the Queen had been given
in her N.S.W. engagement-book. On its
front-page it had a photo, of her Majesty
and the Duke trying to get quietly
away for lunch on their “day off” in
Sydney. The Duke was shielding his face
with a brief-case, but that didn’t stop the
paper from publishing the prying photo-
graph. An invasion of privacy if ever
there was one,
• •
Queensland’s Industrial Court has
increased the State basic wage by 35., the
equivalent of last quarter’s rise in the
c.-0.-l. index-figure. The court’s attitude
was that failure to grant the increase
would amount to cutting down the
standard of living of the wage-earner
and forcing him to make a “unilateral
contribution or sacrifice towards stabil-
ity.” This ruling is in direct contrast to
the Federal Court’s view that the basic
wage is not merely a “needs” wage. The
State basic wage in Queensland will now
be 7s. above the Federal wage.
• •
Wollongong’s day with the Queen was
described as the most informal of the
Royal tour. Cahill did not go to
Wollongong.
• •
Victoria already presents an election-
headache to Menzies and Fadden in the
matter of three-cornered fights at the
Federal election, but it looks as if there’s
another storm coming up —the Hollway
Liberals are talking of putting-up candi-
dates against the sitting candidates in
Liberal electorates. Whether this means
Hollway himself is switching his ambi-
tions to Canberra remains to be seen;
in borderline seats it could mean a gift
to “Labor.”
It is about time the Hollway “Liberals,”
who are plainly wooing “Labor” votes,
came out in their true colors.
• •
For a moment it looked as if Frank
Forde would get “Labor’s” nomination
for the Wide Bay (Q.) seat unopposed, but
cricketer Don Tallon’s brother, president
of the Bundaberg A.L.P., has also thrown
his hat into the ring. An ex-serviceman
in the early thirties,-he should make the
pre-selection fight interesting
• •
The Queen’s English. Australians
generally pronounce the first syllable of
the name of their native land “Oss” ; on
English lips “Awse” is more usual. With
every speech the Queen seems to be get-
ting closer to our way of saying it.
Wooi-cneque ror the seven months to
January 31 was £237 million, an increase
of £26 million on the corresponding
figure for the previous year. There was
a rise both in the volume of the clip and
the price per pound.
• •
The U.S. Senate is considering a bill
which aims to increase U.S. wool-
production by a system of subsidies, the
target being 300 million pounds (roughly
a million Australian bales) a year. Total
Australian wool-production last year was
1300 million pounds. As the American
total, if land-production totals can be
achieved by legislative action, will con-
sist of not much Merino and a heck of a
lot of crossbred, nobody need become
alarmed about this.
• •
In a broadcast the Prime Minister said
he did not believe that people like him-
self should try to monopolise the Queen.
People like himself? Now, who could
Menzies have had in mind?
• •
How Melbourne’s sprawl has made
food more expensive was shown in a
recent sale of small farm-lots at Mordi-
alloc, a mixture of agriculture and
suburbia about twenty miles from Mel-
bourne, which in years gone by was a
"IF IT WOULDN'T BE TROUBLING YOU, SIR...."
sea of market-gardens. Prices ranged
from £350 to £5lO an acre and market-
gardeners, poultry-farmers, flower-growers
and racehorse-owners paid a total of
£16,640 for the 38 lots. Thirty years
ago a market-gardener paid as much for
the whole area as is now paid for an
acre.
• •
The Maxwell Report is said to be ready
for presentation. If it takes as long to
read as it took to write it will be a while
yet before it becomes public.
• •
Victorian railwaymen and trammies
engaged on traffic duties during the Royal
visit will receive £1 a week bonus; a
request for similar treatment has been
made by the Sydney men. It’s a payment
few people will quibble at, but, if
bonuses are in the air, the N. S. Wales
police force should not be overlooked.
• •
The A.C.T. Advisory Council, which
recently suggested that University House
should not get a liquor licence until the
Maxwell Report was made public, has
shown its lack of prejudice by recom-
mending the granting of hotel leases for
Canberra’s outlying suburbs. The Minis-
ter for the Interior didn’t accept the
advice on University House, which is to
get its licence, but it’s to be hoped that
he will approve the move for more hotels.
The city has still only the five pubs it
had in 1936, although the population has
almost trebled. Canberra’s five-o’clock
rush rivals anything to be seen in Sydney.
There is some talk of community hotels,
which may be a solution for outer
Canberra.
0 0
Cain doesn’t intend to make any move
to acquire a Melbourne building for
Tatt.’s until that enterprise is free of all
possible legal entanglements. Bang goes
the chance of getting the Duke to draw
the marble for the first sweep and make
it a Royal Tatt.’s!
• •
Sydney University is to get the elec-
tronic-brain for which Professor Messel
has been campaigning; a gift of £50,000
from Adolph Basser is the “go-ahead”
signal. Silliac, as the educated machine
is to be called, will be one of those
unbelievable contraptions which are
capable of doing the maths, homework
for every schoolboy in Australia in less
time than it takes any one of them to
concoct an excuse for skipping it. It
should be ready to tackle its first assign-
ment in about two years’ time.
• 0
Katoomba thought itself lucky when
it heard that Cahill would not be doing
the honors when her Majesty met The
Three Sisters. But it never does to crow
too soon ; Evatt minor was there instead.
0 0
“Stromlo”: It was Lewis Carroll who
used to disrupt cheerful gatherings by
propounding the maddening theory that
if one could follow the sun around the
world it would be always today, and
past events could be described only as so
many hours earlier the same day. Modern
planes may be able to follow the sun
around now, or even beat it, but most
people find enough time problems pre-
sented by the departure of the morning
bus or the arrival of some new grey hairs.
However, the Advisory Council in Can-
berra sought to do better by making
Canberra time Eastern Standard time.
The Commonwealth Observatory pointed
out that the time-zones had been fixed
internationally many years ago, and that
to call the Eastern time-zone “Canberra
time” would be inaccurate by four
minutes. Although the radio “pips” come
from Mt. Stromlo, near Canberra, they
are based on the time at Cape Howe, 150
degrees E. long. This means that the
western parts of N.S.W., Queensland and
Victoria are, from a solar viewpoint, well
behind the standard time they observe,
and that the most easterly parts of the
first two are well in advance of it. It
may seem strange, but even Sydney is a
bit ahead of its time.
• •
Australia’s dollar balance should benefit
to the tune of 2{- million dollars as a
result of coal exports to the U.S. Army
in Korea. Latest order is for 120,000
tons of N. S. Wales coal, bringing total
orders for the year to 305,000 tons.
• •
On Friday a writ challenging the Dog-
collar Act was lodged with the High
Court by seven employing companies
and two clerks. Both the companies and
the clerks are representative of a far
larger body of employers and employees.
Chief grounds for the writ are that the
compulsory provisions conflict with
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution and with the Commonwealth
Arbitration Act. The case will probably
come before the High Court next month.
• •
Most unions are going quietly on the
matter of compulsory-unionism, but the
Clerks’ Union has announced that it will
begin this week to check whether the
Act is being observed; it will launch
prosecutions against employers and
employees who are not complying. With
High Court proceedings pending it
seems very likely that an application to
restrain them from doing so would
succeed.
• •
Barry, M.L.A., on the two-tier supper
list for Melbourne’s Royal Ball: “The
ball is being conducted in two stages —
the saloon stage and the steerage.”
• •
It is estimated that Victoria’s rabbit
population is now back to 40 per cent,
of what it was before the myxomatosis
campaign. This is put down to a dry
season and absence of water-holes to
breed mosquitoes. Which suggests that
mossies may yet become protected animals
in Victoria.
• •
“In the ACT”: The three men who
flew 3000 miles from the Kimberleys to
Canberra to present arguments to the
summer school of the Institute of Politi-
cal Science in favor of northern Australia
being 100 per cent, tax-free got a good
reception there —especially from northern
residents. Even Artie Fadden might have
been moved by the strength of their case,
which admitted quite frankly that it
would benefit them, but claimed that it
was the only practicable way of attracting
adequate capital and labor from the
south. They asked that the concession
should be for a long period, and that it
shrould apply to everyone, resident and
non-resident, who invested in the area.
There was a good deal of support for
these and similar views, and more will
be heard of them. But there aren’t many
votes in the north.
• •
There’s a Bill McKell writing' radio
and film notes for the “Labor” paper
“News Review.” No, it can’t be the
same one.
• •
Two angles on migration. Since 1946
migrants have accounted for 23 per cent,
of the extra H million taxpayers added
to the assessment-list. Last year the
productive efforts of migrants contributed
£322 million to the national income. The
figures are Immigration Minister Holt’s;
he can probably explain how they are
arrived at.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
TOOTED on the day of the Queen’s
in Sydney: The excited
radio-commentator who announced “Her
Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh”
. . . the woman who looked at the deco-
rations and said, “It’s much nicer to have
pictures of a pretty girl like that than
photos of someone like Stalin all over
the place” . . . the two youngsters who
issued confidently forth from a city office
into the thick of the junketings in the
hope of buying two ping-pong balls—
and bought ’em 1 . . . the complete
absence of that character from the bush
who always arrives in Sydney on such
days and asks, “What’s all the celebra-
tions for?”—“O. F.”
“Becks”: Half the interest in watch-
ing Sydney’s sky-writing plane at work is
in guessing the complete word from the
first couple of letters. On Royal Rand-
wick day the sky-man began his perform-
ance with an appropriately loyal gesture
EII R. Then, as the Royal cipher drifted
across the sky, he returned for his next
item. CA were the first two letters. That
was easy. “Cahill,” guessed thousands of
gazers inside and outside Randwick. But
they were wrong. The third letter was S,
and the complete word a popular brand of
bathing-costume.
“Macann”; For expressing feeling
really sincere and heartfelt, the sign
water-painted on a Sydney fishshop
window;
Long Live Our Queen
Schnapper 4/- lb.
• • . • • A
“Fons”; Sydney’s State Ball, at which
a number of guests earned a peculiar
fame by concentrating on the Queen one
of those prolonged mass stares so familiar
to anthropological field-workers, provokes
the thought that the elaborate ritual of
ancient Oriental courts was probably
devised to deal with just such problems
of primitive behavior. Even Mr. Cahill’s
zeal might be dampened if he were
required to bang his forehead emphatically
on the ground at each 4 “greeting-point.”
I pass the suggestion on to the appropriate
authorities.
“Macca”: From the radio-announcer
on the portable-set in front of me: “Now
the Queen has stepped into the Royal
car. The vanguard heads towards the
waiting streets” ... A surprised mutter
to his wife from her man behind me:
“Vanguard! You’d reckon they’d run to
a Rolls, at least.”
“Bannon”: In the quiet atmosphere of
Government House grounds, remote from
cheering crowds, her Majesty carried out
the final ceremony of the Royal Progress
—inspection of the Royal Guard of
Honor from Ist Field Regiment, R*.A.A.
As the inspection got under way the
Duke, who was critically eyeing the guard,
turned to the G.O.C. Eastern Command,
and asked with typical serviceman’s
informality, “Tell me. General, what mob
is this again?”
• • • • • •
“M.”: It was the first time in history
an Australian Fleet had entered Sydney
Harbor dressed overall, and the first time
it had been seen wearing ensigns at the
jack forrard while under way (both
usually reserved for anchoring or when
at berth). Then there were, of other
matters naval, the august, meticulously-
aligned ships, not a spar out of place,
funnel-lips bare of even the faintest haze
of smoke —and smothered with the trail-
ing, coal-black smear from the pilot-
vessel’s undisciplined stack ; Royal Gothic,
in, and trailing her homage of white-
tailed small craft like a Gulliver his
enemy fleet; that night, the abrupt leap-
ing into necklaced light of a half-a-dozen
warships in the Harbor, grim outlines
marked by threads of glittering globes, all
“Somebody robbed my safe."
switched on and off at a signal, with the
precision and timing of a concentration
broadside.
“Bairdie”: It wasn’t no bankers’ arch,
but it caught my eye just as effectively.
On the side of a big lorry, a beautiful
“E11R” and crown glittering in the sun
with diamond-like gleams. Closer inspec-
tion showed the decoration was composed
of hundreds of chromed bottle-tops; the
vibration of the engine giving the whole a
scintillating effect. Vehicle for the display
—a brewery wagon.
“Piper”: Things that might have been
better expressed by the radio-announcer
posted at Government House at the
termination of Sydney’s Royal Progress:
“Here is her Majesty, still with that
charming smile on her face though she’s
just been right round the city of Sydney! ”
If, as an earlier commentator had sug-
gested, the drive really had been like a
“Roman triumph” there would have been
cause for wonder.
“B. A. Ker”: A few incidentals which
will always embellish my memory of a
glorious occasion: The enthusiasm of
“Here is the news — I’m sorry, I’ve forgotten my glasses."
some New Australians who (like myself,
also) waited for three hours to cheer her
Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh.
The incredulous grins of police in a car,
who just couldn’t believe that Sydney
crowds were cheering them. The effect
a cheer had on a platoon of National
Service trainees, changing them to a
smart body of soldiers who ordered-arms
like Guardsmen. The excited jabberings
of two Chinese of the almost-defunct
market-gardener type while they waited
for the Royal procession. The unbeliev-
able, spontaneous ovation which roared
along the streets as the Queen and Duke
passed by. And a most sincere approba-
tion, uttered in a hoarse voice when the
slim figure stepped back in regal dignity
after laying the wreath on the Cenotaph;
“Good on yer. Queen!”
• A • • A
“D.A.”: The lass had been
held up above the crowd to see the Queen
go by. “Did you see the Queen, dear?”
her mother asked as she was put down
on the footpath again. “No,” said the
tot, emphatically. “Only a lady!”
“Vingter”: In the earliest days of the
Milne Bay show scrounging was such an
exact and widely-practised science that
the Big Brass of both Australian and U.S.
Forces, by means of Routine Orders, de-
manded its discontinuance “or else.” I
heard a top-sergeant express pithily the
Yanks’ point of view; “You gahdam
Aussies, because you’re descended from
cahnvicks, are natural-born thieves. Even
when there’s nothing worth while to
thieve, you’ll steal dog-biscuits just for
practice!” To which impeachment
Shorty, our unit’s lightest-fingered gentle-
man, replied dispassionately: “Aw, I
dunno about that. It’s like this up here.
The Army thieves from the R.A.A.F., the
R.A.A.F. thieves from the Yanks and the
Yanks thieve from the Army. So in the
end nobody loses. I dunno what the hell
the heads are squealin’ about.”
❖ ♦> <♦
“Euroclydon”: I’ve just read, in a new
biography of American actor Edwin
Booth, that it was October, the Australian
spring, when the actor’s ship “was guided
by the pilot through the needle’s-eye gap
of Sydney Heads into Sydney Harbor.”
And that later, “while they were in Mel-
bourne, he and Anderson went for a stroll
outside the city and lay down luxuriously
in the shade of a coconut-palm. Suddenly
some instinct made Booth roll over. A
split-second later an enormous coconut
crashed on the spot where he had been
lying. It was his caul that saved him, he
whispered awestruck.” That was a century
ago, and old man Yarra still goes yarning
along.
♦> ♦>
“Harrovian”: “MacHoots’s” meta-
phor about the baby bridges (B. 3/2/’54)
reminded me of the remark made by the
celebrated divine Sydney Smith, in
Regency times. He had visited Brighton
in order to see “Prinny’s” pavilion, and
when asked his opinion of it said, “It
looks as if St. Paul’s Cathedral had gone
down to Brighton and pupped.” One has
only to look at Sydney’s Victoria Build-
ings to realise that one at least of those
pups migrated to Australia.
♦> ♦>
“Arno”: Let me in with a lament for
the unsung death of “that.” Every Aus-
tralian able to speak English supports
Fowler in using “that” to introduce a
defining-clause, but every columnist,
every writer of pars, advertisements,
letters-to-the-editor and what-have-you
plumps for “which.” Only the writers
of nursery rhymes still cling doggedly to
English as she is spoke. But it is with
trembling fingers that I turn the pages
of each new nursery-rhyme book that
comes into our house. One of these
days, I fear, someone will do it: “This
is the dog which worried the cat which
killed the rat which ate the malt which
lay in the house which Jack built.
Then I’ll go out quietly into the wood-
shed and end it all,
L ♦> ❖ ***
“Bamekaw”: After one song in a spot
of pop-music sponsored over our local
radio-station by a well-known airline, the
announcer blurbed: “That was ‘You’ll
Never Grow Old,’ and you’ll never grow
old if you continue to fly the 7"
way.” He went on hastily to explain,
but I’d like to know what the sponsors
thought.
♦Jf
“Ex-R.S.M.”: To men who lost a leg
while on active service or through an
accident, one new type of artificial limb
is a godsend. It has no harness whatever,
but is held in place by suction, with the
stump acting as a pump-plunger to main-
tain a partial vacuum in the socket. 1
has to be fitted with great care and skill,
is modelled on a plaster-cast of the stump,
and there’s no chafing. A mate of mine
was fitted with such a limb a couple 01
months ago. With the old type, he had 0
get along by a shoulder-hunchmg,
awkward-looking technique which he
found very tiring. Now he exhibits wha
might be nothing more than a limp. Some
decorations are awarded for services 0
humanity. The inventor of this limb has
definitely earned something of the kind.
SYDNEY DOMAIN
(1) LADY AND COCKATOO
One Saturday afternoon I saw her
walking
Across the grass with a dead branch over
her shoulder
And perched on it, by her ear, the
sulphur-crested
Garrulous bird —but she was mostly
talking,
Speaking to him in intimate whispers. He,
Head cocked, bent low and attentive,
brushing her cheek;
And, so content with each other they
were, the world.
The grass, the trees might well have
ceased to be.
And what would a woman say to a hand-
some bird
Or he to her ? Perhaps what Leda said
To other white dazzling feathers. The
parrot preening
Replies or questions ? They could not be
overheard.
He muttered and croaked. If cockatoos
do no t sing
One could not doubt that his pebbly
desert voice
To her was sound like the fine songs
of a dream . . .
He had eaten her heart and left her one
beating wing.
(2) GIPSIES
They sprawl like exotic flowers on the
green rank lawn,
Brown limbs contorted in similar sinister
spell
To those of the human Moreton-Bay fig-
tree boughs;
And which are trees, which gipsies,
how shall we tell ?
A tree was tussling the wind, its metal
leaves
Shone wrong side out and clapped like
gongs as it threw
Showers of silver over my head and
shoulders
While somewhere a husky voice implored,
and I knew
That the wicked brown woman who
cried: ‘‘lf you cross my palm
In love for me as I love thee in ruth
It will grow to a heap of glittering coin
for thee
And I will tell all thy life!" —spoke only
truth. t
My fine clever gipsy, accept a shining
coin
Minted this moment —my hand here —
what do you see?
If I heard I have forgotten her mumbling
answer.
Or —was hers the savage, the beautiful
prophecy?
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


T SAW an old, old woman, yellow and
withered, skipping briskly along
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, with a stick;
and whenever anybody jostled her or got
in her way, which happened every half-
minute, she whacked them mightily on
the legs ; and then, when they wheeled to
complain, gabbled at them so furiously
that they fled. What joy to be so old, to
have such power, and to be absolutely
certain that you could get away with it!
—“MacHoots.”
£♦ £♦ 4*4
“Pat”: The conversation was of poli-
ticians, and opinions were unanimously
adverse until the quiet bloke in the horn-
rims made his pronouncement; “Great
fellers to have alongside you if you’re on
a long driving trip. Had to go to Can-
berra a few weeks ago, and a couple of
members asked if they could get a lift.
Talk! Never let a silent moment go by
the whole way. The first time,” he con-
cluded with genuine appreciation, “that
I’ve been perfectly confident I couldn’t
go to sleep at the wheel.”
£♦ £4 £►
“P.0.M.C.”: Nowadays perfume, con-
fections, stationery, gloves, trinkets, nylons
and even millinery, as well as beer, plonk
and milk, may be purchased in
places termed bars. So add to
Sydney’s imposing galaxy of
them a. Penguin Bar, in a lane
off Pitt-street, Penguins (or
Pelicans, for that matter) in
animate form aren’t dispensed
there, but the premises do con-
form to the traditional function
of a bar in sparing no effort
to appease your thirst—provided,
of course, you thirst for know-
ledge.
£4 £4 £4
“Beejay”; “Roirp” is a bit
out in his tale of the American
plane-saboteurs at Moresby (B.
27/1/’54). Infantry units did
not camp at the end of air-strips.
Don company, of the 2/33rd,
was marshalled in trucks at the
end of the ’drome, after having
been driven from their camp
several miles away, when that
Liberator crashed on them. And
they were bound for Nadzab
and Lae, not the Kokoda Trail
—that campaign was fought a
year before. Finally, the swift
capture and dispatch of the
culprits (told in a great variety
of ways) was a furphy that
enjoyed great vogue for a long time in
New Guinea. The report of the investiga-
tion, as handed to the battalion concerned,
and told to the writer, was simply
“Accidental.”
❖ £♦ £4
“P.0.M.C.”; That joke-block gag
about “Hand-made chocolates untouched
by human hands” (B. 3/2/’54) isn’t quite
the contradiction it sounds. In making
chocolate assortments, for example, the
centres are mixed mainly by hand (i.e.,
by hand-controlled implements), poured
into multiple moulds, and then sharply
knocked out into trays when set. Dippers,
the artisans of the trade, using variously-
shaped two- or three-pronged wire forks,
then immerse and skilfully inscribe the
centres individuaUy in molten, accurately-
textured chocolate, whence they pass on
trays or slides through a quick-cooling
system to the packers. Selection, accord-
ing to the dippers’ symbols denoting com-
position, and arranging in frilled grease-
proofed paper cups prior to packing in
fancy boxes, is mostly done by hand, but
the confections have already been
machine-wrapped in tinsel in the majority
of modern factories.
4*4 4*4 £4
“Pip Tok”: In his humorous suggestion
(B. 20/1 / ’54) that “Army cracksmen”
might give recruits instruction in safe-
breaking “Becks” could have been nearer
the target than intended. When Welling-
ton swept through the Pyrenees into
Gascony in 1814, the Duke insisted on
cash payments for all food and forage
requisitioned from civilians; but the
French peasants, mostly illiterate, refused
to accept English money. No one knew
better than Wellington that the roads to
the recruiting-office were not all straight
and narrow, so he inquired for any coiners
in his army. Five were paraded, and he
set these men to work on the coins, turn-
ing the profile of George 111 into a pas-
sable likeness of Napoleon. The peasants
eagerly accepted the altered coins ; the
supply difficulty was liquidated.
£4 £4 £4
“Gibby”; Although doodling is usually
practised by people otherwise pre-
occupied in thinking out a problem or
listening to an argument, psychologists
claim the scribblings reveal certain traits
of the doodler. It certainly betrayed a
Queensland burglar recently—he absent-
mindedly signed his name to a page of
doodling with a fountain-pen he had
pinched.
•£► £t £►
“Vingter”: Those facial gymnastics
by the characters of Victorian novels are
nothing to the performances credited to
Julius Caesar in an illustration our old
teacher gave us on what faulty punctu-
ation can do. It went like this: “Julius
Caesar entered on his head, his helmet
on his feet, his sandals in his hand, his
trusty sword in his eye, an angry glare.”
Getting that straight failed to teach me
correct punctuation, but it did give me a
human interest in the redoubtable Roman.
4> £4 4*4
“Kelvin”: Action-photos snapped
more-or-less by fluke (B. 27/1/’54)? In
the files of a city daily (according to
report) is what appears to be a fake
picture of a person actually diving into
the maw of a shark. A cameraman
operating on a pier is said to have taken
a shot of racing craft and by pure accident
“Excuse me—am I still in the office-lift, in
the tram, or in the Royal procession?”
photographed in the middle-distance the
tragic incident. Journalistic ethics are
said to have precluded use of the picture.
A somewhat off-the-beam sequence
occurred in Brisbane 15 years ago when,
beside a burgled safe in a city hotel, the
police picked up a street-photographer’s
ticket, and following it up got a picture of
a cracksman whose presence in Brisbane
was unsuspected. Not knowing that the
cops had no lead other than the coupon,
the suspect credited them with more
knowledge than they had, and cracked
under questioning.
£4 £♦ £4
“Keima”: “Roscoe’s” suggestion (B.
27/1/’54) to brighten-up Test cricket by
deciding Tests at single-wicket cricket
(that is, one-man-a-side cricket) recaUs the
tale told by that versatile writer E. V,
Lucas, in Cricket All His Life. Two
octogenarians. Smith and Jones, after each
had heatedly supported his own favorite
in a single-wicket game they’d just
“How did they blow that one up. Mummy?”
watched, decided to fight it out between
themselves similarly. Jones won the toss,
batted and made 12; but came Smith’s
turn to bat and he couldn’t get.to the
crease. Prostrate on a sofa, he bewailed
the incapacity the passing of the years
had given him. Jones must therefore go
and bowl the hapless one’s wicket down,
the while he groaned in an agony of dis-
appointment. Victory for Jones was
certain. But suddenly Smith’s friends
rushed back into the room. “Well played,
old man! You’ve won!” they shouted
exultantly. “He bowled thirteen wides!”
£♦ £♦ £♦
“8.J.L.”: Is “Vingter” correct in say-
ing that Fernandez, the U.S. soldier, was
the last man, hanged in Brisbane (B.
27/1/’54)? The abolition of the death-
penalty in Queensland was the hitch in
that case, and, to save argument and
punish the killer as they thought fit, the
Americans erected gallows at Oro Bay in
New Guinea, and carried out the sentence
there. At least, that’s what I read in the
newspapers. Of course, it may have been
fine at Oro Bay that morning, too.
£4 £4 ♦>
“Geehem”: Our clever tram-conductor,
on receiving a trey and two ha’pennies for
a fourpenny fare, made public occasion
of issuing the correct ticket and grandly
tossing the offending minor coins into the
street, with the remark, “That’s what we
think of blasted chicken-feed! ” Whereon
the passenger ripped up his ticket and cast
it to the winds. The trammie immediately
pounced with his ace, “Now, smartie,
you’re travelling without a ticket — fare !”
Passenger, evidently prepared by previous
experience, trumped the trick: “0.K.,
here you are —eight ha’pennies, and I’ve
got enough for as many encores as you
like!”
£♦ £► £♦
“Casey”: Most criticism of radio-
announcers is confined to mispronuncia-
tion, but the ludicrous effect they achieve
by misplacement of emphasis is at least
as bad. The air is full of ice-chests,
vacuum -cleaners. c/g-arettes, ladies’
footwear and so on; a special award to
the young air-salesman who, in describing
the delights of owning a certain brand of
radiogram, said that I could roll back the
carpet and enjoy a programme of uninter-
rupted dance music in no time ! Mangled
pronunciation is, of course, a bad thing.
On occasions, it can be forgiven. But
misplaced emphasis never can. (AH right,
never can, if you must!)
£t £4 £♦
“Ceg”: Doubtless the thousands of
Diggers who were camped at Monte
Video, outside Weymouth (Eng.), in
War I wifi remember a small village
on the far side of the camp. Can’t remem-
ber its name, but there was quite a good
pub there —it follows that it will be
remembered, and maybe many will also
recall the two old gaffers who used to be
there every night. These two old boys,
with white whiskers and red, chubby
cheeks, could never raise the price of two
pots —that is, a pot each. So one would
cross to the bar, pay for a pint and carry
it back to the trestle-table. Pipes would
be lit, while the untouched beer stood
between them —both eyeing it expect-
antly and appreciatively. After a decent
interval old Jim would grab the pot and
shove it across to his mate, with the
remark, in broadest Dorset, “Eeh,
large, go take top off and give back oi.”
Whereupon George would lick his lips,
and do just that —not a drop more —and
shove back the pot. Backwards and for-
wards it went, and I’ve seen the two of
them make a pint last well over an hour.
Great old boys, but I don’t think they’d
have liked our six-o’clock swill.
£* £4 £*
“Irving”: Perhaps someone can sug-
gest how to clear up a strained situation
in our office. It has been customary for
assessing-clerks to hurl obsolete contri-
butions-cards into the limbo of dis-
carded things behind a line of tall cup-
boards, By some twist of the laws of
physics a card flipped by Jonesy re-
mained poised on a cornice. Accepting
the offer of 100-to-l odds from Smithy,
Jonesy invested a shilling on his ability
to repeat the performance and, astound-
ingly, did so, thereby mulcting Smithy
of a fiver. In accordance with sporting
etiquette Jonesy gave the loser the chance
of getting square by accepting odds of a
1000 to 1 that he could not pull off the
hat-trick, and that card, too, by what
surely must have been the millionth
chance, remained poised on the cornice.
Jonesy and Smithy are not speaking.
$ £4 £4
“Doric”; I consider myself a fair
pianist, but there is one well-meaning
listener who makes me see red. The
person who gushes “Oh, Mr. Doric, you
do play beautifully—it sounds just like a
pianola!”
4$ £4 £»
“Sister Ellell”: When I was a young
probationer, six of us were seconded to
a subsidiary establishment. Being that
number, there was one night in the week
when evening hours off-duty were
“swinging.” We worked hard, had little
money, but enjoyedßhe comradeship that
such a set-up offers. One night Nurse
Mopsy came running off-duty: “Matron
says she’s coming down to see about
that evening extra; do say it’s my turn,
as p’raps she has tickets for that loverly
show at the theatre.” We agreed, as
Mopsy’s current heart-throb was cer-
tainly too poor to take her. Good as her
word, there was Matron at the door:
“Now about that extra night off, which
of you girls isn’t walking out reg’lar?”
As agreed, we volunteered Mopsy’s
name, she not knowing whether to be
pleased at our loyalty or furious at us
for putting her in as unattached. “Well
then, that’s settled,” pronounced Matron.
“Nurse Mopsy, on that night you will
come with me into the parklands. I
want some manure for the garden!”
UNRELIABLE
“Petitioner said her husband, a watchmaker,
always became violent towards her when he
would come home drunk, and several times
she had had to seek police protection. He
worked only spasmodically. She had been
forced to leave him.” —Court report.
When first they were married
Her mainspring was he ;
The burden he carried
As well as may be.
But shortly he spiked it—
He'd get himself oiled,
And the more that he liked it
The less that he toiled
Each time that he’d load up
With sherbet, he’d get
His movements so slowed up,
His balance upset.
She first thought appeasement
Might possibly be
The key to an easement
Of tension, but he t
Bad-tempered, would give her
The “works” —what a brute !
Hobnailed was his liver,
His gall was a beaut.
Both hands he would let her
Have, hammering fast.
Moreover, no better
He got, as time passed.
On this conjugal gruel
She had supped for too long.
So to her precious jewel
She at last “gave the gong.”-
For watchmakers, the moral:
Don’t wind-up too tight.
You’ll avoid every quarrel
By oiling it light.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Returned to Melbourne after 20 years,
a lieutenant-commander in the Canadian
Navy, Bobby Pearce, who knows a bit
about boat-pulling. His first move was
to take a boat for a spin on the Yarra,
his next will be to prepare whaler-crews
from his ship, Canadian cruiser Ontario,
for a regatta during Hobart’s 150th birth-
day celebrations. The veteran sculler,
heavier and greyer than of yore, is in
charge of a party of Canadian Sea
Scouts.
• • ‘
Norman Lindsay has always been
immortal and has now become invisible ;
otherwise, at 75 (Feb. 23), he is the same
inexhaustible fountain of vigor as he was
at 50 and at 25. Rarely appearing at his
studio at 12 Bridge-street, Sydney, which
he still keeps for painting from the
model, he lives on top of the world at
Springwood, in the N. S. Wales Blue
Mountains, surrounded by 60 acres of
bush, feeding cats and goldfish and inces-
santly painting or writing. The latest
writings are a set of autobiographical
essays, including an exceedingly lively
portrait-gallery of his old schoolmasters;
NORMAN LINDSAY
the latest paintings are a superb set of
watercolors based on the voyage of
Ulysses—big, sparkling blue pictures full
of waves and sailors and sirens.
• •
Another leading British industrialist to
visit Melbourne lately is Alexander
Johnstone Quig, deputy-chairman of
1.C.1, It is an old tradition in the Quig
family, which hails from Glasgae, that
male members became farmers, lawyers
or parsons, but A.J, joined Nobel’s
Explosives at 15. He became chairman
of 1.C.1.’s paint-division, then executive-
manager, and, in 1949, deputy-chairman.
Still, he’s in the tradition, being farmer
as well as a chemist, and he’s also a
good musician, having studied at the
Guildhall School of MUsic.
• •
“Macnell”: When Colin Little and
Robert Hunt, both R.A.N. commanders,
retired some time back through lack of
work for their surveying experience, I
mentioned here that the R.A.N. was losing
a couple of officers it could ill afford to
lose. The other day, in a joint letter to
the “S. M. Herald,” the two let go a blast
at the parsimonious attitude of the Naval
Board, which, instead of utilising their
25 years of that specialised experience,
perforce compelled them to transfer their
talents to Pakistan. Talk of using Japs to
supplement Australian surveys initiated
by them caused the distant couple to rise
in wrath. That’s natural enough. Few
hydrographers have the knowledge of
Little and Hunt. Both surveyed the Reef
and other coastal areas, both have been
in charge of the hydrographic branch, and
both were in command, in different
sections, of the whole survey of the s.-w.
Pacific area from New Guinea to the
Philippines in War 11, often charting under
enemy fire just ahead of the invasion
forces.
William Edward Field, born at Red-
ditch (Eng.), started off with an engineer-
ing firm in Birmingham. Shifting to New
Zealand in 1911, he crossed the Tasman
in time to join the First A.1.F., and came
back to Australia from Gallipoli with a
severe wound in the left arm. In 1919
he got into oil, and soon was Victorian
manager for the Texas Co., as Caltex was
then known. By 1930 he was general-
manager, and succeeded L. C. Kemp at
the top of the Caltex tree in 1946 —the
first local man to climb there. He was
chairman of directors when he died in
Sydney the other day, aged 62.
• •
Melbourne University’s Ormond Col-
lege gets as its new master Brinley
Newton-John, a sport-proficient English-
man, well over 6ft., who for the past
seven years has been head of Cambridge
High School. The six years before that
had been spent in the War II R.A.F.,
wing-commander.
• ©
“W.E.F.” views some veteran artists:
Norman Lindsay’s 75th birthday underlines
that there are about a dozen living Australian
artists who were ushered into this world before
him. Dattilo Rubbo, who held a one-man
show when he was 79, is now 84, and so is
Lawson Balfour, whose portrait of Lister Lister
hangs in the N.S.W. Gallery.
Joe Wolinski, whose painting “After Life’s
Fitful Fever He Sleeps Well” caused a furore
more than half a century ago, is 82. John
Salvqna, born at a little place in N.S.W. with
the prophetic name of Irohbarks, is still going
strong at 81.
Norman’s brother Sir Lionel is now an
octogenarian, though meeting him one would
not suspect the fact. A long-lived family the
Lindsays—brother Percy was 82 when he died
two years ago.
Max Meldrum has reached 79 and is still
capable of giving a good account of himself.
Portrait-painter Norman Carter, who, like
The Bulletin’s William Macleod, served an
apprenticeship in the making of stained-glass,
was born the same year as Meldrum.
Howard Ashton (son of that great artist
and teacher Julian Ashton) first exhibited with
the Society of Artists in 1897 and is now 77,
as are Ambrose Patterson and Hans Heysen.
Patterson, who is Emeritus Professor in Paint-
ing at the University of Washington, Seattle
(U.S.A.), recently visited his native Australia.
Hans Heysen, winner of the Wynne Prize nine
times, and one of the six artists commissioned
to paint a picture for the Commonwealth
Government in 1951, lives in South Australia.
One year older than Norman are George
Bell, whose “Lady in Black” tvas one of the
showpieces in the “150 Years of Australian
Art Exhibition” in Sydney, and Sid Long, one
of the foremost etchers in Australia. Arthur
Burgess, the marine-painter, is the same age
as Norman. Burgess has two fine canvases in
the N.S.W. Gallery, “First Australian Fleet
Unit” (1914) and “H.M.A.S. Australia” (1919),
leading the 2nd Battlecruiser Squadron. Nearly
as old as Norman are three active painters —
Will Ashton, Charles Wheeler and Desiderius
Orban, all 73.
• •
Retiring to concentrate on the study
of his piano, Richard Beagley, master of
the world’s busiest and noisiest railway-
station. He joined the Victorian Railways
as a clerk in 1905 and was appointed
stationmaster at Flinders-street in 1934,
since when he has handled 4400 trains
and half-a-million passengers daily.
• •
Probably no other honor arising from
the Queen’s visit to Australia will have
the measure of permanence attaching to
that bestowed on leading Australian his-
torian M. H. Ellis, of The Bulletin
literary staff. It is set forth in the follow-
ing letter from the Queen’s assistant-sec-
retary, Martin Charteris, to the president
of the Royal Australian Historical
Society, K. R. Cramp;
I am commanded by The Queen to thank
you, the Councillors, Fellows and Members
of the Koyal Australian Historical Society
for your kindness in sending for Her
Majesty’s acceptance the beautifully bound
books on the Lives of Major-General Lach-
lan Macquarie and Francis Howard Green-
way.
The Queen is indeed pleased to accept
these books and looks forward to reading
them.
Chosen by the society as a gift to the
Queen, “to mark the presence of a reign-
ing Monarch for the first time on Aus-
tralian soil,” the Angus and Robertson
editions of the two books were specially
bound by Sangorski and Sutcliffe, Lon-
don, in crushed crimson morocco leather,
the covers richly tooled in gold in a
design built round the central motif of
the Royal cipher, with end-papers decor-
ated in a rare acanthus-leaf design—
altogether a binding worthy of a place
among superb achievements in that fine
art, such as those featured in, say.
The Art of the Book, and also, of course,
finely represented along the bookshelves
of the Royal Library, where Lachlan
Macquarie and Francis Greenway —and
M. H. Ellis —now find their place.
Gone to his reward, Monsignor
Thomas Joseph King, kindly remem-
bered by many Diggers of all creeds of
War I, in which he rose to be senior
Australian Catholic Chaplain. On the
troopship, bound Egypt, the priest
teamed with three other Diggers in run-
ning the ship’s newspaper. Of those
three, Bill Dailey became a member ot
the literary staff of The Bulletin, John
Dailey its associate-editor, and Ken
Prior its present managing-director. The
priest himself went on to serve for years
on the editorial board of the Sydney
“Catholic Weekly.” Awarded 0.8. E. in
1917, and three “mentions,” Monsignor
King had the high Catholic dignity of
Prothonotary Apostolic conferred on him
in 1937, and had been parish priest of St,
Michael’s, Stanmore (Sydney), for 32
years. He was 74 at the end, in Sydney.
• •
Awarded the J. K. Moir Natural History
Medallion for 1953, Old Digger and
noted naturalist Charles Barrett. His
comrade-in-field, Alec Chisholm, won the
first award of the medallion, back in
1939.
• •
“Fitz”: John Earnshaw (who on this
week’s “Red Page” advances the theory
that John Lang, Sydney-born barrister
and author of Botany Bay, or True Tales
of Early Australia, could have been the
“Alexander Harris” who wrote Settlers
and Convicts and might also have written
Ralph Rashleigh) has had a long associ-
ation with Australian books. His father,
Ike Earnshaw’, a leading horse-trainer—
of Poseidon, among other champions —■
was a close friend of Nat Gould, the
Australian author who wrote more than
100 novels on horse-racing. Born at
Randwick, son John went to Sydney
Grammar and thence into engineering.
While still an apprentice he cleared out,
landed in England, and enlisted, at 16,
in the British Army in World War I.
The war over, he spent some years roam-
ing over New Guinea, and nowadays
owns an engineering business at North
Sydney. His main interest the collecting
of books on the early history of Aus-
tralia and the Pacific Islands, he’s his-
torian as well, spending a lot of his time
trying to solve mysteries of Australian
history. Ten years went into the making
of a history of Thomas Muir, one of the
“Scottish Martyrs” transported here in
1794; it has yet to find a publisher.
Recognised also as the authority on the
life and writings of Louis Becke, he’s a
large and amiable fellow with a cheerful
outlook on life.
• •
Dr. Jack Loneragan, who lately
returned to Perth from California,
has now gone to the plant-division
of C.5.1.R.0. in Canberra. A dis-
tinguished science graduate of Wes-
tralian University, he won a Hackett
studentship and a Fullbright grant, which
sent him, in 1950, to the Californian
University, where he used radioactive
trace-elements in studying the functions
of molybdenum in plants. In his brief
busman’s holiday in Perth, he helped
officers of the plant-division of the local
Institute of Agriculture to investigate
zinc deficiency in subterranean-clover.
• •
The businesslike phiz depicted here-
with belongs to Alban Alfred Hale, big
in Brisbane business for the past 20-odd
years. Bom in Gympie (Q.), schooled at
Toowoomba Grammar, he began in a
A. HALE, Brisbane 'Change
bank, then shifted to stockbroking, form-
ing his own firm with a Gympie townie in
Brisbane. A.I.F. business in War II
took up four-and-a-bit years, rank of
major. Now, when not earning his
membership of the Little Ships Club on
the waters of Moreton Bay, he presides
over Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Judged hereunder by Prior, Richard
Ashburner, in his Sydney barrister’s
rooms before moving to the Bench of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court.
Greyish but youngish, with a good grin
and a resonant voice, the new judge has
brine in his blood —his grandfather ran a
shipyard now known as Vickers, and his
father had a master’s ticket in sail, gave
the sea away for a hire-car business in
R. ASHBURNER, Arbitration Court
Sydney, and, when the Kaiser got going,
returned to sea with the Navy, and, at
the time one of the few with minesweep-
ing knowledge in Australia, swept the
field which caught the Cumberland off
Gabo, then cleared away what raider
Wolf left behind her. The younger Ash-
burner had his name down for the naval
college at Jervis Bay in the middle of that
war, but, his father deciding that “one
fool in the family was enough,” he took
to law, became dux of Scots College,
Rhodes man for 1928, and a Middle
Temple barrister in 1931, He’s well-rigged
for the Arbitration Court—behind him
five years of lecturing in industrial law
at Sydney University and 16 years of
practising in industrial arbitration. One
of his extra-legal achievements was the
introduction to N.S.W. from England of
the Fairbairn style of rowing. He coached
Scots’ eights for several years in the
’thirties.
• •
Cyril Renwick, who becomes the first
Associate-Professor of Economics at the
N.S.W. University of Technology, is a
Gosford (N.S.W.) product who entered
Sydney University in 1939. He left it
BEc. (first-class honors), became M.Ec.
in 1947, and later visited Europe. He
has written several works, and his edition
of Malthus’s Five Papers has been well
received in the U.K. and America. One
of Renwick’s first tasks will be the
organising of a faculty at Newcastle
University College.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 73, in Adelaide, Guy Whitington, former
partner and director of Lion Timber Mills.
Son of Peter Whitington, one-time Commis-
sioner of Audit, he was well-known in Adelaide
as a pigeon-fancier and show-exhibitor of roses.
R. S. Whitington, former South Australian
cricketer and author of several cricket-books, is
his son.
At 57, in Sydney, Walter Magnus, noted con-
noisseur of food and wine. Born in Dortmund
(Germany), he practised as a dentist in several
European countries before choosing Australia
in 1934. Owner, at different times, of some of
Sydney’s best-known restaurants, he was a
generous patron of the arts, particularly music
and painting.
At Opononi (N.Z.), at 29, Peter Smith, ex-
champion in junior-singles and senior-doubles
tennis. He toured Australia in 1947 with the
All-Black Rugbyites and with the Maori team
in 1949. He was of the All-Black pack for four
years from 1945.
At Argyle (W.A.), at 84, William Edward
Dempster, old colonist whose father and uncles
pioneered the Esperance district. Born in Perth
in 1870, W.E. moved from Esperance to Muresk
in 1895, and developed the property which
became the site of the Muresk Agricultural
College.
At 57, in London, Linden Miller, artist.
Born in Melbourne, he was a watercolor
painter and etcher.
In Adelaide, at 55, Clarence Leighton Bath,
widely-known in Australian insurance. With
Sir Wallace Bruce and Co. for 35 years, he
was elected president of the Insurance Institute
of South Australia in 1950, and at the end was
vice-president of the Federal body.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 75, Colonel Halbert
Cecil Glendining, after 43 years in the
Dominion’s Regular Army. In 1914 he sailed
with the main body as adjutant of the Otago
Mounted Rifles; later became staff-captain ot
the Rifle Brigade in Palestine and brigade-majot
with the artillery-division in France (D.S.OT
In War II he was camp-commandant at
Papakura.
In Melbourne, Henry Prior Sutton, with the
Victorian Stevedoring Co. for 35 years and a
director at the end. R;A.N. reservist, he haa
served in the Navy in both World Wars. He
held high posts in Victorian Masonry.


SUCCESSFUL TACTICS


ABORIGINALITIES
'THE name of the Brisbane suburb of
-®- Toowong has its origin in a curious
combination of a bird and a plant. In
the days of Foundation there grew in
the area an abundance of Cudrania, the
cockspur bush, and the fruits of the
plants attracted the cordial attention of
koel cuckoos. The chief call of the
black-garbed male koel is a resonant
“cooee” (hence it is often termed cooee-
bird), but on first arriving from the north
in springtime it usually utters a melodious
“too-wong,” or “tu-wong” ; and it was
from this call, declaimed among the cock-
spur plants, that the area gained its name.
Incidentally, Queensland has levied pretty
freely on birds in a geographical sense:
Longreach is noted for the fact that its
street-names suggest a school bird-list,
and Quilpie has gone one better by bor-
rowing from birds for both its own name
and the names of its streets —Quilpie
is aboriginal for curlew, and its streets in-
clude Dukamurra, Boonkai and Chulun-
gra, all native terms for birds whose
identities are now lost. —“Chink.”
* * * *
“Aedo”: In our Westralian coastal
district a native surname as common as
Smith and Jones in Perth is Papertalk. It
began in the ’eighties, the original Paper-
talk being then an abo. lad of about 15
employed on a sheep-run. One of his jobs
was to ride in every week to collect the
mail. His fellow-natives, curious about
the written word which seemed so all-
important to Boss and Missus, referred to
the letters as “papertalk,” and so they
nicknamed the boy. It was eventually
adopted as a surname, and his progeny
have spread it.
* * * *
“Ybsul”: The “roads” of inland New
Guinea are narrow, ditch-lined, greasy,
crevassed, precipitous and pernicious, but
to the motor-cyclist it is the pigs that give
the real fillip to a ride. The other day
Fergy was bumping and skidding down
the Goroka-Chimbu track when he found
himself in the midst of three racing pig-
lets and a sow. Braking into last position,
he saw that he himself was being fol-
lowed —by a determined black boar in
no mood for mechanised cuckoldry. The
field was well strung out when the boar
closed and brought down his adversary,
who fell beneath the motor-bike. As the
boar again attacked Fergy dug fingers in
gravel and scrabbled round on the track
keeping bike towards pig. He was run-
ning out of defensive ideas when inspira-
tion smote him and he honked the horn.
The startled tusker skidded to a stop in
mid-charge, turned, leaped the ditch and
crashed off in the kunai. Fergy reckons
the rest of the ride to Chimbu was like
backseating a Bikini round the Bondi
esplanade.
* * * ♦
“Mark O’Polo”: What! The town of
Moe monosyllabic (B. 3/2/’54)? Please
tell “Gulliver” that the name contains
as many syllables as “phooey.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: At Busselton (W.A.) a spear-
fisherman who investigated an under-
water cave had his spear, and then him-
self, gripped by either an octopus or a
squid—probably an octopus. Contrary
to popular belief, these fish don’t attack
humans except in self-defence ; but then
they’ll put all they’ve got into it, and
will follow an assailant right to the sur-
face. In this case the spearman had
pushed his spear into the cave and tried
to retrieve it when it was grasped. That
constituted an attack, and the octopus
reached for him. He was drawn close
enough to be able to hack with his knife
at the beast’s head and eyes, finally
managed to sever the one tentacle that
gripped him, and reached the surface
with sft. of tentacle still adhering to him.
That’s a big octopus for those waters.
For an unarmed man the right tactic is
to turn the horror’s head inside-out.
♦ * * *
“Columba”: In my storeroom at the
farmhouse there reposed for years a
box of gelignite, only two plugs having
been used. The mice got at it, chewing
one stick right through. I moved the
detonators to another place, and, know-
ing that “jelly” gets dangerous with age,
I parcelled it up and placed it in the
medicine-chest at the bails (don’t ask me
why!). Now, with the effluxion of a few
more years, the stuff must be getting
highly dangerous. Next move, please,
you experts?
» * * •
“D.R.H.”: This is being written under
the supervision of a very lively brown
snake. Quite apart from the gliding
grace of his body and poised head, he's
interesting as a living refutation of a
cherished bush-belief. I found him some
days ago when I moved a packing-case
from against the wall. As he flowed
away from me I thought he showed a
variation from the scale-pattern normal
“Cuddly little things , aren't they ?"
in the Demansia tribe. He had to be
stopped before he got into the house, and
I tried to k.o. him with the flat of the
shovel without causing too much
damage; but the banjo-blade slipped,
and J. Blake was left apparently dying
and minus six inches of dorsal hide.
I lifted him on the shovel and dropped
him into an empty drum to wait until
there was leisure for examination. Next
day I found his Snakeship still very
much alive and even willing to box-on.
Caged for observation, he has since made
a complete recovery, and the torn back
has healed. Which rather bends the
notion that once you break a snake’s
hide he’s a goner.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Gumsucker”: It is just a century
since Weekes and Co., Sydney iron-
mongers, imported galvanised-iron sheets
which were to supersede the old slates
and shingles and make life hell for coun-
try dwellers in midsummer. They came
in two sizes: 18 x 16in. for nailing on
like slates; and the six-footers. It was
soon found that a roll or corrugation
down both long edges not only increased
rigidity (jgit, by permitting overlapping
at joints, avoided leakage. Later the entire
sheet was corrugated, though this meant
some loss of superficial area. In the
’nineties there were still roofs to be
seen covered with the old-style single-
corrugated iron. Nailing was the big
problem. Screws, fitted with a washer
and packing, as is still done with corru-
gated asbestos, were fairly successful but
costly; so were the lead-headed nails,
shaped much like a slouch hat, the rim
bending to fit the iron. The arrival of the
cheaply-produced zinc-covered, um-
brella-shaped springhead nail, however,
solved all problems associated with the
new roofing material,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Narrin”: The nankeen kestrel wasn’t
the best choice to adduce as evidence of
egg-color preference among troglodytic
fowl (B. 27/1/’54). In the ridge-and-
plain country of northern S.A., where the
slim little acrobats are common, the
kestrels nest almost without exception
in stick-nests in trees. Cayley says “some-
times a deserted nest of a crow or raven
is used.” That would help explain the
frigid relationship that exists between
crows and kestrels in those parts.
♦ ♦ * «
“Laetitia”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” con-
tention (B. 27/1/’54) that “bee-eater” is as
good a name as any other for rainbow-
birds probably springs from his observa-
tion that the presence of their beaks in
blossoms coincides with that of bees.
Actually both bird and bee are attracted
by the nectar distilled by the blossoms;
they are both boozers trying to get to
the bar at the same time. The charge I
can accept as proven against the rainbow-
bird is that he can’t hold his liquor like
a gentle-avian. When he sips the nectar
a i those seasonal stages at which it has
fermentous properties he exhibits an
unusual belligerency and is guilty of
clumsy flying or aerobatics which betray
his exhilarated state. But, like his human
brother, though he might jostle, he doesn’t
devour contenders for a swig,
* * * «
“T.H.M.”; On Phillip Island (Vic.)
foxes have taken to helping themselves to
what’s offering in a mutton-bird burrow
and then using it as a domicile. A
couple of trappers located one litter in
a burrow on Cape Woolamai rookeries
and confined one of the pups in a strong,
small box at the entrance, around which
they set several traps. Next morning the
traps were all sprung and the box miss-
ing. It was eventually found about a
chain away, with the youngster almost
liberated. The vixen, it was fairly
evident, had scratched sand thickly over
the traps before springing them, then
had savagely gnawed the box until the
slats were almost through.
* * * «
Two of the Visitors
THE elderly couple in the train were
-*■ the type I’ve always had a soft spot
for —typical country people of the older
generation.
They were dressed very plainly—some
might say dowdily—but if the word fitted
it was merely because the couple had
lived their lives in a sphere where clothes
did not make the man, nor the woman.
As the train reached the close suburbs
the grey-moustached old chap showed
Mum something through the window;
she leaned her greying, tight-bunned head
forward eagerly. They were looking at
the Harbor Bridge.
I struck up a conversation with them.
He owned a mixed farm only about 80
miles from Sydney, but they “didn’t come
to the city very often” —he’d paid a visit
round about ’43, but Mum hadn’t been in
since “a good while back” (just after
World War I, it turned out).
She hadn’t liked it —there were too
many people and they all seemed to be in
a hurry. She had always said she wouldn’t
go there again. But today she didn’t care
if there were a million people (in actual
fact, the crowd numbered a million and
a half) —she was going to see the Queen.
I left them parked in what I reckoned
was a first-class possie along the Royal
Procession-route, and went to pick up my
party. Somehow there seemed to be some-
thing singularly touching in the thought of
that old couple braving the be-
wildering bustle of a callous city in order
to pay homage to their Queen.
Sebak.
« V • • •
“Fairf”: Picture a very roughly-built
caravan made, apparently, of hardwood
battens, its motive-power not a car but
four grey donkeys harnessed four-in-hand
fashion; its auxiliary motor another
donk., haltered to the back and accom-
panied by a half-grown donkette frolick-
ing with the joy of life. Imagine a grey-
haired veteran sitting in the front of the
strange-looking job and driving the team
—then tell me where you’d expect to see
such a turnout. West of Bourke? North
of the Alice? But you’d never guess it
The four- donkey - powered vehicle
travelled through Fairfield (just 18 miles
from Sydney) on Feb. 5, 1954. Another
country visitor on his way back after
seeing the Queen? .
A WASTE OF GOOD WATER
I say this, said the farmer, I’m jiggered if ever
I could
React the right way to the things I was told of
the Flood
That covered the earth from Ararat* peak to
the Ocean.
Now, what good did it do to redeem all that
shocking erosion?
No doubt it destroyed umpteen-thousand
impenitent men,
But show me the proof we are better for what
happened then.
My opinion is this: you won’t make people
virtuous through fear,
Even if you drown most of them every
twentieth year.
As for killing, well, plenty mere men have
excelled in that line,
Conquerors and dictators; even claiming they
too were divine;
Which shows, as a precedent, nothing was
worse than the Flood.
Now, what if instead there’d been done some
spectacular good?
Constructively using that water, for instance,
to make
In the heart of Australia a most magnificent
lake,
And (to be sure that it didn’t evaporate, leaving
no traces)
Have seven broad rivers flow to it through all
the dry places.
To explain how, without rain, they should all
continually run,
A miraculous sign in the sky saying “All this
I’ve done!”
Surely that would convince lots of people now
ignoring the Book.
Why, hundreds of thousands would travel the
world just to look.
And if that didn’t make them believe with the
fire of the Twelve,
Said the farmer, then jolly well let them look
after themselves.
Should it matter so much to a God, really,
what mortals think?
Just lead them to water, and let them decide
if they’ll drink.
N.S.W.
HUNK.


f
Born IS2O —
going strong .
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.12€8.!2
■
Hi
m
m
m
VS
mm.
*
m
■*n
. ■
a
Wm
CAN HAPPEN
IN "THE DULUX SHOW
/#
Jack Davey and his crazy followers Keith “Grandpa” Smith, George Foster
and Aileen Britton race from one hilarious adventure to another in the laugh-
filled “Dulux Show.” There are catchy songs, too, sung in the modern manner
by blonde Helen Lorraine and Ron McAnnally. Join them all every Wednesday
night at 8 p.m.
- SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX • 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
Jht MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
NINE times out of 10 when you see
a tawny frogmouth miscalled
mopoke—in the bush it’s got its head
pointed upwards in a direct line with the
body. You’ve got to look hard to tell
that it isn’t a dead branch, and you might
wonder how the bird maintains that
attitude through the daylight hours. It
doesn’t. It’s almost always seen like that
because it freezes in that attitude when
disturbed—and it usually sees an intruder
before the intruder sees it. But its normal
roosting attitude is like that of most birds
—rather huddled, and with the feathers
relaxed. Even then they’re not easily
seen, but their freezing pose is a marvel
of camouflage. Yet the most artistic touch
of all is usually missed. The tip of the
beak is kept slightly open. That gives a
perfect impression of a broken branch,
and almost every similar branch in the
bush is broken, with a ragged end. But
how did the bird figure this out; where
along the line of its evolution did it hit
on the idea of the slightly open beak?
—“Bass.”
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: The N.G. boy in Lusby’s
joke-block (B. 27 /1 / ’54) would be quite
in character with those jeep-parts worn
in his pierced lugs. In the Torres Straits
Islands I’ve seen oldsters carrying bottles
of kerosene suspended by strings threaded
through holes pierced in the ear-lobes. It
was general practice for them to carry
matches threaded through a series of
smaller perforations, with pipe and lengths
of “twist” tobacco in the larger. I
remember in particular old Tiamao, a
Badu Islander, who, when the south-east
gales blew, cautiously anchored by a line
made fast to his pierced left ear the hat
I had given him. He wore the top-piece
only in fair weather. When the rains
came he carefully stowed it under his lava-
lava. On gala occasions he wore through
the other listening-piece the metal fastener
and tattered remains of a pair of corsets.
This strange device he wore with great
dignity.
« * * «
“Loulalo”: It isn’t only bullock- and
horse-teams that need a good man to
manoeuvre them in a narrow space (B.
27/1/’54). The transport business in our
town is owned by two men; their best
driver, a wizard at handling a semi-trailer,
is often fired by one partner when he hits
the grog, but his re-employment is inevit-
able because his final act on taking the
bullet is to back the huge stock-crate
into its garage in such a way that it
defies the boss’s best efforts to get it
out. Reinstated by the other partner, the
driver gets it back on the road with
aggravatingly-deceptive ease,
♦ * * •
“Kros”: To be capable of flight is part
of a bird’s inherited instinct. As soon as
a fledgling’s muscles and nerves are de-
veloped to the proper pitch it will fly;
“It Was a crook party—no bottle-fights , and nobody arrested
consequently whether the parents are tree-
nesting or (as in the case of the rainbow-
bird, B. 27/1 / ’54) tunnel-dwellers has
nothing to do with the matter. True,
young birds at their first flight never fly
perfectly, and do improve by practice.
But they are born with the fundamentals ;
also, very few parent birds actually guide
their offspring in the art. Birds certainly
can learn things ; but most bird behavior
is instinctive, and, like insects, they
respond mechanically to most situations.
They don’t reason or think. How other-
wise explain why a bird, its egg having
been removed, can be made to incubate a
stone or ball? Or, as many English
naturalists have shown, why a bird will
brood and feed the infiltrated cuckoo
and allow its own cast-out ones to die oi
cold and starvation a few feet away?
* * * *
“J JA ” • What sort of sandalwood
does’ “Kelms” (B. 27/1/’54) call a semi-
parasite? My acquaintance is with the
sandalwood that grows in the Victoiian
Mallee; I have grown it from seed and
transplanted twice, so it obviously can t
be parasitic. It is a snow-white wood,
without any figuring, and polishes like
ivory. Not subject to crack or warp, it
is ideal for certain types of furniture
My father burned hundreds of tons of
it when he cleared his block in the Mallee,
and he has said that the perfume hung
in the air for weeks after.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When two-up be-
came too drawn-out, due to too many
indecisive spins, another penny was
introduced to make each spin “sudden
death.” Now three coins have become
almost standard for the game, and I’m
moved to ask why one penny wouldn’t
act as well? Each spin would be deci-
sive, it would be almost impossible to
ring-in a double-header, and it would
be easier for the beginner to handle
the kip, thereby eliminating barred
spins. But every player to whom I’ve
suggested the idea has fought shy, most
complaining that “a man’d be doing his
money cold.” And that’s the impression
it creates in practice. Once saw a
country publican and a big contractor
betting on a single coin hurled spinning
against a wall. Bets were a hundred
quid a spin, and in less than five min-
utes the pub-owner was 500 quid to the
good. There were men in the bar who’d
often seen games on the fields where the
stakes were as high, but they all vowed
they’d turn teetotal before they’d take
on such a cold-blooded game.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Fishermen were
hauling their net ashore at Busselton
(W A ) when something hurtled out of it
and landed about 40yds. up the beach.
Turned out to be a squid about a foot
long with a body about three inches
thick The type hadn’t been seen around
there’ before, and it’s almost certainly the
same sort that puzzled the Kon-Tiki party
till they saw one, escaping from some
enemy take off and spear about 40yds.
through the air. Later they estimated
ome to travel up to 60yds„ and they
observed that as they left the water the
squids unfolded pieces of skm to act as
planes, and made glider flights as far as
their speed would carry them. So far as
I know the Kon-Tiki report was the first
to mention flying squids, and this report
from Busselton is probably the first from
Australian waters. They’re not to be
confused with octopuses. The two are
closely related, but the octopus has eight
arms, the squid 10—eight ordinary ones
and two extra-long tentacles for anchor-
ing itself and for seizing prey. An even
greater difference is that the octopus
crawls along the ocean floor, whereas the
squid normally swims. He’s got fins, and
he swims leisurely by undulations of these
aided by gentle squirts of his siphon-
system. This is a true jet-propulsion
mechanism which the squid can control
perfectly. He must attain terrific speeds
to hurl his body 60yds. outside his natural
medium. He can’t add to his speed once
he leaves the water.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: To the potent brews lately
offered for vicarious sampling here, the
“tuba” drunk by the Torres Straits
Islands natives should be added. The
toddy is obtained by cutting the green
shoots at the top of the coconut-palm
and allowing the resultant secretion to
distil into gourds. The liquor ferments
very rapidly, undergoing various stages
of drinkability and kick within the space
of days without the aid of any activator.
From the same gourd one can, on suc-
cessive mornings, sample nips of grog
ranging from a small beer to a heavy
lager, to a raw whisky, and finally to a
brew besides which arrack is as mild as
mother’s milk.
THE HOUSE WHERE I WAS BORN
T went to see the house where I was born;
The orchard where I played long years ago
Between the orange-trees that row on row
Stood soldier-like; the patch of ripened corn—
A forest for my game; the creek, my sea,
Where my armadas (paper boats, you know)
Went drifting down the tide away from me
To seek, to fight, to vanquish every foe.
But when I reached the place, I stood amazed:
Mv childish universe had shrunk to ten
Suburban lots. The cottage had been razed,
The orchard trees cut out, the creek I knew
Confined within a concrete drain, and men
Were stacking bricks and sawing timber through.
N.S.W.
HAROLD W. DENNING.


This advertisement is for PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY,
and _is not a Prospectus within the meaning of the Com-
panies Act, 1936, and the requirements of Section 137 of
that Act have not been fully complied with. The full Pros-
pectus is dated the 25th January, 1954, and a copy has been
filed with the Registrar-General of New South Wales, who
takes no responsibility for its contents.
UNITED PETROLEUM
LIMITED
(Incorporated muter the Companies Act 1936 of the
State of New South Wales on 7th January. 1954)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
Ordinary shares of 5/- each, payable as to 2/6
per share on application and the balance of 2/6 per share
payable not less than two months after allotment.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
6,000,000 Ordinary shares of 5/- each £1,500,000
500,000 Preference shares of £1 each ... 500,000
£2,000,000
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION:
1,600,000 Ordinary shares of 5/ each £400,000
SHARES TO BE ALLOTTED TO O. L. JOSEPHSON,
ESQ., PURSUANT TO A CONTRACT;
160,000 Ordinary shares of 5/ each 40,000
HELD IN RESERVE:
4,240j000 Ordinary shares of 5/ each 1,060,000
SOtyOOO Preference shares of £1 each .. 500,000
£2,000,000
DIRECTORS:
OSCAR LEWIS JOSEPHSON,
T 1 Falrlight Street, Manly. Company Director.
GEORGE HARPER,
16 Mona Road, Darling Point. Company Director.
MOUNTFORD STANLEY NICHOLSON,
103 Louisa Road, Balmain. Company Director.
JAMBS HAYES FARRAR,
19 Grosvenor Road, Llndfleld. Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
(Three additional Directors are to be appointed.)
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
ALBERT FRANCIS RUSHWOBTH. A.A.S.A., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS;
W. H. BENTLEY FRAZER AND CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
1 Bent Street, Sydney.
BANKERS!
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD..
377 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
HENRY DAVIS AND SONS, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS:
A. S. MacDONALD, WAGNER AND PBIDDLE, 9 Young St., Sydney.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE:
LIONEL A. McFADYEN AND CO., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
JOSEPH PALMER AND SONS, 96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PRING DEAN & CO., Q.N. Bank Chambers, 27 Hunter St., Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The objects for which the
Company is incorporated are
set out in the Memorandum of
Association, which forms part
of the full Prospectus. The
principal objects are:—
Ca) To construct and estab-
lish at Long Cove, Bal-
main, a seaboard bulk
storage terminal for the
receipt and storage of
petroleum products.
(b) To carry on the business
of importers and resellers
of the full range of petro-
leum products.
PURPOSE OF THIS ISSUE
The purpose of this issue is
to provide funds for the acqui-
sition of the Balmain Colliery
site and the construction there-
on of a seaboard bulk storage
terminal, the acquisition of
plant and equipment and veh-
icles necessary to carry on the
Company’s business, and work-
ing capital.
SUPPLY AND TANKER
CONTRACT
The supply and delivery to
the Company of petroleum pro-
ducts has been secured for five
years by a contract with Capital
Oil Company of California.
DIVIDEND
All shares of the present
issue will rank for dividend as
from the date of allotment.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The Company’s Memorandum
and Articles of Association
have been prepared in accord-
ance with the requirements of
the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Application will be made for
official quotation of the Com-
pany’s shares on the official list
of the Sydney Stock Exchange
as soon as practicable after
allotment.
The Directors may from time
to time apply to have the shares
of the Company listed on such
other recognised Stock Ex-
changes as they deem fit.
PROSPECTUS
AND APPLICATIONS.
FOR SHARES
Applications for the shares
of this issue will be accepted
only on the form attached to
the full Prospectus, copies of
which may be obtained from
the Brokers to the Issue or the
registered office of the Com-
pany.
Applications may be lodged
either with the Brokers to the
Issue, Messrs. Lionel A. Mc-
Fadyen and Co., 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, Messrs. Joseph Palmer
and Sons, 96 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney, Messrs. Pring Dean and
Co., Q.N. Bank Chambers, 27
Hunter Street, Sydney, or with
the Company at its registered
office, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
ALLOTMENT
The Directors will proceed to
allotment as soon as practicable
after the closing of the issue,
but not later than 29th March,
1954.
The minimum subscription on
which the directors may pro-
ceed to allotment is 1,600,000
shares of 5/ each, on which
the amount payable on applica-
tion is 2/6 per share.
m
&Kl*
THE DEPENDABLE CIGARETTE
fta/ufari
AND MEDIUM
STRENGTH
X973D-8-S3
Business. Rollery. Etc.
United Petroleum, Ltd.
A NEW entrant to the petrol-
and -distributing
field, United Petroleum, Ltd., is
being formed in Sydney to take
over the old Balmain Colliery
property (4f acres) and construct
on it a seaboard bulk-storage
terminal. It aims also to tie-up
for five years with “American
associates” (Capital Oil Co. of
California) for petroleum sup-
plies and tanker facilities. When
an effective sales-organisation is
completed (about the end of
this year) the co. aims to employ
about 100 agents for the distri-
bution of its products throughout
N.S.W.
The public is offered 1,600,000
ss. ord. shares at par, which will
bring in £400,000. Out of this
Oscar L. Josephson, promoter
of the company, is to get £BO,OOO,
as well as £40,000 in fully-paid
shares, for the Balmain property,
What Mr. Josephson paid for the
property is not disclosed ; valua-
*ions f™P cctus . P uta
fiB ure £243,000 on it, with
improvements. An outside
source mentions “about £55,000
as the price at which it changed
hands earlier in 1953. Mr.
Josephson has undertaken to
seal-off the old coalmine, from
which a strong ffow of gas has
been a characteristic since it was
closed down many years ago,
before the sale to the new co. is
completed. The sealing-off is to
be carried out to the satisfaction
of the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment.
After the present ord.-share
issue has been fully subscribed
250,000 £l6 p.c. cum. prefs. are
to be offered to the Capital Oil
Co. of California for cash. To
secure this capital investment,
as well as “further contracts,”
United Petroleum “may be
required to issue to its American
associates up to 320,000 ord
shares of ss. each credited as
fully paid up.”
If all these share-issues are
carried out, paid capital will be
£770,000 in 2,080,000 ss. ords.
and 250,000 6 p.c. £1 prefs.
After the cash payment to the
vendor, the amount of cash
remaining would be £570,000.
Apart from the initial
purchase-price of the Balmain
property, the co. estimates that
it will cost £172,000 to complete
the seaboard terminal, and
£63,000 for other plant and
vehicles. Preliminary exes, are
set at £25,000, and working
capital £60,000. The pref. money
is calculated to provide ample
additional capital requirements
and to “enable plans for the
building of country bulk-distri-
bution terminals to be
accelerated.”
In N. S. Wales Mr. Josephson
is confident that the co. will be
able to capture a turnover equal
to U p.c. of the total Australian
turnover of petroleum products,
to show a “net profit before taxa-
tion of not less than £200,000.”
Mr. Josephson was associated
with.the foundation and develop-
ment of Ampol Petroleum, prin-
cipally on the selling side. He
started preliminary work on the
present project four years ago.
Whether he will find the going
easier or harder .than in Ampol’s
early days—which were fairly
tough—remains to be seen.
Just at present oil-company com-
petition is growing in intensity,
and N.S.W. is rapidly getting an
overpopulation of service-
stations.
Omati No. 1 Well
Following resumption of
operations at Omati No. 1 well
last week. Oil Search ss. shares
rose again to 255, Oil Search
has a 10 p.c. interest in Aus-
tralasian Petroleum and Island
Exploration, who are jointly
searching for oil in southern
Papua.
A high-pressure well-head is
being installed at Omati, where
the drill-pipe has stuck in the
well at 13,740 ft. after high gas-
pressure caused the hole to cave-
in. Operations were suspended
last year until the present surface-
control equipment could be
brought from overseas. It is a
wet gas that has been coming
from the hole, and the pressure
is such that if oil is there the
well, without surface control,
would “blow its top.” But actual
evidence of an oil-reservoir has
still to be produced.
Once surface-control equip-
ment is installed the co. will go
ahead with the job of removing
the stuck bit and, if necessary,
drilling further.
Installation of a deep-drilling
outfit at Omati No. 2, two miles
west of Omati No. 1, has begun.
Also, following detailed geo-
logical investigation of several
structures to the north-east of
Omati, a location for test-drilling
has been chosen on the Kuru
structure, about 26 miles n.-e. of
Kikori.
Oil Search will have an issue
of 8,321,390 ss. shares when all
the new capital is subscribed.
As mentioned, it owns a 10 p.c.
interest in the joint Papuan
project.
State Candor
“Petro”: The petroleum pros-
pects of much of the vast stretch
of territory over which permits
to explore for oil were allocated,
to a rather motley collection of
companies, by the Western Aus-
tralian Minister for Mines on
February 10, may be written off
as negligible.
Mr. Kelly’s candor, however,
Is to be admired where he states
that “all areas contain sonfe sedi-
mentary rock, but, in some, the
strata which are the only
potential source of petroleum
are known to be thin. On present
knowledge, all the areas lack the
general characteristics of the
coastal areas of the west and
north-west parts of the State in
which potential oil-bearing struc-
tures have been known for many
years.”
Mr. Kelly’s affirmation that the
terms of the W.A. Petroleum Act
will be strictly enforced, and
specifically with reference to
time-extensions of permits, is
very welcome in view of past
experience in other parts of the
Commonwealth and territories,
and is yet another instance in
which State Department of
Mines officials have shown them-
selves to be much closer to
realities than their Federal
confreres.
Timber and Woodpulp
Seeing that the export capacity
of New Zealand’s expanding
timber, pulp and paper industry
will be decided in Australia, there
can’t be too much co-operation
and pooling of ideas in the plan-
ning stage, now fairly well
advanced. Australia’s interest is
obvious from the attendance of
nearly a hundred delegates at the
February international timber
conference at Rotorua to talk
things over with 300-odd N.Z.
sawmillers, timber-merchants.
Forest Service experts and box-,
pulp- and paper-manufacturers.
N.Z. is banking on selling the
lion’s share of its surplus, if not
the whole of it, in Australia as
its new industries get into harness
and work up into top-gear. For
a start, N.Z. Forest Products is
shipping part of its output across
the Tasman, and is showing no
weakening in the pioneering
spirit that triumphed over a lot
of obstacles in building up its
£7 million Kinleith plant to the
point of full production reached
a few months ago.
So far the big effort has been
on the production side, but from
now on this will have to be
matched by salesmanship. A. R.
Entrican, N.Z. Director of
Forestry, has taken a bright view
of the outlook at the moment,
looking at world market pros-
pects from N.Z.’s angle as a
most important challenger. The
decisive factor, it seems, will be
the standard of sawing, grading,
seasoning and kiln-drying, to win
an expanding place on the Aus-
tralian timber market. Says
Entrican: “Radiata pine has
taken its place in the traditional
softwood trade with Australia,
but the industry has to face a
difficult task in manufacturing as
good a product from logs from
immature stands Current
exports to Australia are between
20 million and 30 million board-
feet a year, and N.Z. should be
able to service the Australian
market to the extent of 150
million board-feet of exotic
softwoods.”
This figure is a shade under
a third of estimated local market
capacity—soo million board-feet
yearly—which is two and a half
times the quantity today.
Moina Tungsten-Tin (Tas.) is
confident of the mine’s prospects
at present lower metal prices.
Tests have shown that produc-
tion of a saleable mixed con-
centrate, as a short-term pro-
gramme, would be comparatively
simple. A long-term pro-
gramme will aim at separation
of the tin, tungsten and bismuth.
Installation of the mill should
start shortly. It will treat
200 tons a week, working
one shift. Shareholders have
put in £Bl,OOO, of which
about £3900 will, remain by
the end of March. A call of
a shilling a share (making the
scrip 35.-paid) is payable on
March 10. There are 810,100
contribs. issued, and 189,900
fully-paid ss. vendors’ shares.
The prospectus put cost of pre-
paring and equipping the old
mine and setting up plant and
housing at £135,000. Working
capital available from the issue
was put at £47,950. The 25.-
paid shares have weakened to
about 2s. 9d. after being
around 4s.


oM^YUAf/^
ft*
3
2o
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives apd agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
i
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
in.
Lav
range
0 1
i'A ;
Jim «
Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-,
Every LAY IN A has a non-
magnetic escapement and a
17-iewelled movement.
LAVENA
WATCHES
LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
\ vvy
It
m
s-Vw
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank's
Trade Enquiry Service,
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank’s agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia's oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank's Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank's nearest branch.
f
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF THE UNION BANK
AUSTRALASIA • OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents In all parts of the world
ANZ.24. 3S5O'
ƒ
A STORY
IN CLUB
Let the significant story of Colonel
Cayenne (Ret.) be a warning to your club secretary.
The Colonel may not be a pundit of military
strategy, but in his lifelong peregrinations he has learned
all there is to know about Scotch whiskies.
Long has he proclaimed that the finest Scotch tasted
by mortal palate is The Real Mackenzie.
From the moment he landed on Australian soil he
demanded The Real Mackenzie. In club and pub he
asked for it—assuredly at first, then belligerently and, in
the end, plaintively.
He had been able to get it in the pukka clubs and
messes in the East. He knew there was plenty in
America’s swank hotels and nighteries. So, why the
sanguinary so-and-so couldn’t he have it in Australia?
“The Real. Mackenzie,” he kept telling the secretary
of his club, “is the finest whisky Scotland ever distilled.
There may be other good Scotch whiskies, but they aren’t
The Real Mackenzie. I’ve tasted ’em all since I’ve been
in this country. I’ve been obliged to. And I tell you, sir,
none of them is The Real Mackenzie.”
Whereat his club secretary would explain that it
hadn’t yet been possible to import The Real Mackenzie
from Scotland,
Last week came the crisis. Colonel Cayenne zoomed
into the club and touched down in the secretary’s office.
“I demand The Real Mackenzie. It’s an order, sir.”
“Not again, Colonel, surely not again!”
Once more the secretary began to recite the litany
about difficulties in importing The Real Mackenzie from
Scotland, but the stentorian tones of his protagonist made
the words inaudible.
Minutes later some sixth sense drew the Colonel’s
eyes to An Object the secretary was placing on the desk.
His sentence fluttered’to earth like a winged duck.
“The . . . the . . .” he spluttered.
“Yes, Colonel —The Real Mackenzie. A
shipment has arrived in Australia. A little
rare still, I’m afraid, but I think we could
spare you a bottle.”
But Colonel Cayenne had not heard.
His florid features bore the rapture of a
pilgrim come at last to Mecca.
Can you get The Real Mackenzie at
your club? You should be able to. Ask
your club secretary about it. In any case,
The Real Mackenzie is obtainable at the
Australia and other hotels that cater for
people who know really good Scotch when
they meet it.
No other Scotch is
THE REAL MACKENZIE
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS: Keith S. Hall Pty. Limited (Wine and Spirit
Division), 269-271 Sussex Street, Sydney. Telephones: M 6711-6712.
ttlftailteMK®
°'“WhW-' iS^
SBIA-54
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
We said that we should have
to “pay for it.” Now we have
started our penance.
“It” was the abnormally mild
and dry early winter that was
so out of season as to cause
primroses to bud and hens to
lay prematurely. Europe’s
winter resorts, normally in full
season by Christmas, then had
a poor covering of snow. And
when the slopes grew whiter and
deeper, another mild spell pre-
cipitated tragedy in the form of
terrible avalanches.
Remembering the harshness
and privation of early 1947,
everyone is wondering appre
hensively whether the rigors of
those uncomfortable months are
due for recurrence in a seven-
year cycle. Certainly everything
points to a long spell of cold
weather. Siberian winds have
occupied Europe’s land mass.
Paris has suffered its lowest
temperature for 75 years. The
sea has frozen —a rare event —
on Britain’s east coast and the
usually immune south coast re-
sorts have had heavy snowfalls.
If the cold persists, compari-
sons with 1947 should be inter-
esting, even revealing. How will
the people react? In 1947 they
were debilitated by six years of
war and by a longer period of
stodgy food and inadequate diet.
One remembers, painfully, the
sight of children crying in the
streets from sheer cold. Now
that both clothes and food are
varied and plentiful we may
confidently expect their younger
brothers and sisters to enjoy, as
did their fathers and mothers,
the delights of skating and
tobogganing.
The cruellest and most deplor-
able circumstance of 1947 was
the worst fuel crisis ever. Will
it be repeated? We have man-
aged to shuffle through each
successive winter without suffer-
ing a coal famine, thanks to the
luck of the weather rather than
to the tiptoed awareness of the
nationalised coal industry.
Stocks are not all that much
heavier than they were seven
years ago. If snowdrifts upset
transport we may find ourselves
in the same unpleasant state.
That remains to be seen.
Meanwhile, we are becoming
conscious of the hard fact that
other European nations are
more up-to-date with fuel effi-
ciency than ourselves. Their
winters are both more regular
and more severe than our own.
And, once upon a time, Britain
had more coal than she knew
what to do with. All you had
to do was to roar-up the fires
and dodge the draughts. That
is no longer possible.
Slow - combustion fires and
other devices have come on the
market since 1947 and have sold
well. But their use is anything
but general. Something in the
nature of a national fuel policy,
with official encouragement of
fuel-saving devices, is long over-
due.
Bankers’ Draughts
A spate of homilies from
bank chairmen have left us rather
confused. All have spoken
authoritatively and to a wide
public eagerly hanging upon
their pearls of wisdom.
Yet these chairmen (who are
closer to the wheels of our indus-
try and the workings of our
businesses than any other group
of men, even including H.M.
Inspectors of Taxes) are by no
means unanimous in their
opinions. All agree, in no un-
certain terms, that the present
weight of taxation is too heavy.
Without doubt they speak in one
voice for their clients as well as
for themselves.
Otherwise their analyses and
suggested remedies are dispar-
ate. For example, one chairman
wants to trot sterling out into
the open and make it convert-
ible so as to test its strength.
He has rather shocked every-
body by his quixotic boldness.
Another wants an active home
market so as indirectly to boost
the export trade, presumably
with new ideas and methods.
Yet another (of a Lancashire
bank) fears that the cotton trade
is cutting its own throat by
allowing 75 p.c. of its output
to stay at home.
The truth is that the banks
themselves have had a prosper-
ous year and somehow have to
reconcile their glowing self-
satisfaction with the exigencies
of the nation’s economy. Nine-
teen fifty-three was a good year
for investment. The banks ap-
preciate the progress made in
strengthening external finance
and also the increased internal
freedom and flexibility. All of
them save two have raised their
dividends. This is quite remark-
able for, with one exception in
1952, there has been no change
in bank dividends since 1941.
What seems to have happened
is simply that the rush of take-
over bids last year has induced
companies towards a truer self-
valuation. This has meant
higher dividends all round and
the banks have followed suit.
At the same time, chairmen
have felt embarrassment at their
own not entirely disinterested
part in these bids and also at
references to higher produc-
tivity. They know that take-
over bids, with their “money-
for-nothing” flavor, have exacer-
bated the momentum behind the
wage-claims which threaten our
financial structure.
The banks would like a
financial showdown on ortho-
dox lines. So, too, would many
other responsible authorities.
But, as one chairman remarked,
“No Government could survive
the unpopularity which a genu-
ine overhaul would entail.”
While, no doubt, the opera-
tive noun is rather strong, the
bank chairmen’s predicament
would seem to be epitomised in
the old lower-deck maxim: “If
you can’t break a racket, join
it!”
Comely Illyrians
“Twelfth Night” is the most
genteel of comedies. It be-
speaks cultured love-thoughts,
well-bred make-believe, high-
born fooling and a style so
light as to float above the sub-
stance of the play.
Visually, the Old Vic Com-
pany approaches this ideal. The
players, elegant in stance and
graceful in movement, are in
courtly tune with James Bailey’s
resplendent Elizabethan cos-
tumes ; and Denis Carey’s clean,
forthright production serves
them well. What detracts from
a still-delightful performance is
indifferent verse - speaking.
(Were that as distinguished as
Gordon Jacobs’s arrangement of
the traditional music, perfection
would be near.) But the actors
scarcely give the impression that
their normal mode of conver-
sation is in iambic pentameters
—a high standard, perhaps, but
a prerequisite of this comedy.
A more astounding Malvolio
than Michael Hordern’s we can
never hope for. His aggressive
unease dominates the play.
Richly comic, he is never any-
thing but grimly serious. Nor
have we seen an Olivia at once
so young, beautiful and strong
of character as Gwen Cherreil.
Sir Toby is less happily cast.
Richard Burton plays him with
an awkward jerkiness that sug-
gests a recalcitrant puppet.
Claire Bloom is a round and
wistful Viola who becomes as
long-striding and determined a
Cesario as ever wooed a fair
lady. If the high passion of her
entreaties plays havoc with both
metre and meaning, in this in-
stance the sacrifice is worth
while. On other occasions, her
severe classical purity of style
has tended to make her seem
colorless. Paul Daneman is an
appealing Feste: intelligent,
melancholic, a shrewd mimer
and a passable singer.
Detection Among Friends
“No Other Verdict” (Duchess
Theatre) is a ttfriller that fairly
teems with ingenuity. The
Assizes judge (conveniently
blotted out behind an Old
Master when not required) acts
as chorus, linking-up the inci-
dents that lead to the arrest, for
murder, of a blackmailed ex-
plorer, cum writer, cum country-
gentleman. And the perspi-
cacious superintendent is a
friend and social equal of the
family.
The jerky transfers from ex-
plorer’s study to Court of
Assize become rather irritating
despite the slickness of the in-
vention which even runs to the
learned judge announcing, with
deep subtlety, the first inter-
val. On the other hand, the
superintendent’s obligation to
put duty before friendship is a
dramatic gain. This rather loses
force when the explorer is be-
hind bars and the superinten-
dent has to throw over his im-
partiality and become prisoner’s
friend. But the author, Jack
Roffey, though down to three
cards, still holds a couple of
trumps which he plays with
demonstrative unorthodoxy.
As with most guessing-games
of this kind, the characters are
less than skin-deep, and the ten-
sions and love interest purely
makeshift. Thanks largely to the
freshness of John Arnatt’s
superintendent, who is not a
bit like an actor pretending to
be a detective, interest is well
sustained. And the author, be-
sides believing in the local con-
stabulary and showing-off its
stern efficiency, also makes
imaginative use of an English
country background.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Leathers, Ltd.
TRACTORS which make scrip in this
big tanning and leather-goods organi-
sation attractive as a holding proposition
are its firmly-established position in the
industry, the stability of its earnings, and
the comfortable cover for the parent’s
9 p.c. div. The market, however, hasn’t
lately shown much interest in leather
stocks, and Associated’s 10s. ords. can
be bought at 16s. 3d. —only 9d. above
1953’s low —to yield a satisfactory 5.5
p.c., with prospects. The 5 p.c. prefs. at
19s. 6d. return 5.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £9 ss. Id. prefs. and 13s. 2d.
ords., book-values ; if the present worth
of heavily-depreciated fixed assets were
taken into account, the backing would be
very much higher.
Formed in 1948, Associated Leathers
brought under centralised control a group
of five allied cos. engaged in the leather
industry throughout Australia and New
Zealand, and ranging in age from 54 to
84 years. It issued 173,189 £1 5 p.c. prefs.
and 1,589,913 10s. ords. for most of the
paid capital in the subsidiaries; of these,
the public later bought 44,150 prefs. at
21s. 6d. and 399,400 ords. at 16s. 4d.
The prospectus stated profits of the group
from 1942 to 1948, adjusted for public-
co. tax at approximately current rates,
as follows:
1942 .. ..£110,344 1 1946 .. ..£103,496
1943 .. .. 96,024 | 1947 .. .. 113.092
1944 .. .. 97,310 I 1948 ~ .. 184,856
1945 .. .. 72,648 J
To buy out minority interests in the
subsidiaries and acquire three new off-
shoots, the parent issued £23,061 in prefs.
and £185,238 in ords. during the 1950
and 1951 terms. In 1952 shareholders
put up a further £250,000 in ords. at par,
which took paid capital to the present
£1,426,444.
There are now ten operating cos. :
Melbourne:
Michaelis, Hallenstein and Co. Pty., Ltd.
(branch in Tasmania); Michaelis, Hallen-
stein (Export) Pty., Ltd.; R. W. Thomson
Pty., Ltd.; Hedley’s Pty., Ltd.
Sydney: ,
Farleigb, Nettheim Pty., Ltd.
Brisbane:
Farleigh, Nettheim (Qld.) Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide:
Julius Cohn and Co., Ltd.
Perth:
Rosenstamm Pty., Ltd.
Dunedin ( N.Z. );
Glendermid, Ltd.
London:
Australasian Leathers, Ltd.
The combine operates five tanneries,
its factories make finished leather-goods,
and its warehouses handle leather,
grindery, saddlery, canvas, sportsgoods,
and a variety of other lines. As well as
an extensive local trade, it has a “sub-
stantial and regular” export 'business,
mainly with the U.K., Europe and the
Far East.
Last term opened with sales sluggish,
but demand picked up in the June half-
year, and overall turnover didn’t fall far
short of the previous year’s. Thanks to
lower charges for depreciation (£37,268,
down £32,848) and tax (£157,533, down
£14,976) the board was able to write net
profit £18,740 stronger at a record
£188,458:
Associated Leathers and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. , —Ordinary—% serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £18,378 .. •• 29,197
1949.. 97,842 8660 8 p.c. = 63,596 25,586 54,783
Profit sale assets, £3127 • ■ •• 57,910
Added on purchase of outside interests
and new subsidiary, £14,247 .. 72,157
1950.. 9813 9 p.c. = 84,311 57,076 129,233
Profit sale assets, £85,040 .. • • 164,273
Deducted cm purchase of new sub-
sidiaries, £2461 .. .. •• 161,812
Tax overprovided, £2896 .. .. 164,708
1951.. 9813 9 p.c. = 88,217 71,342 236,050
Profit sale assets, £12,531 .. .. 248,581
Net addition reserves, £l2OO .. 249,781
1952.. 9813 9 p.c. = 91,967 67,938 317,719
Profit sale assets, £4437 .. .. 322,156
Net addition reserves, £482 .. .. 322,638
1953.. 458 9813 9 p.c. =110,717 67,928 390,566
* After deducting goodwill on consolidation, now
£398,387.
Reason given for the sharp drop in depre-
ciation is that 1952’s charge included
special allowances on new plant. The
£188,458 of profit covered pref. require-
ments and 14.5 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 15.7 and 16.3 p.c. back to 1951.
And a saving of £29,000 due to lower
tax-rates adds another 2.4 p.c., making
16.9 p.c. Of the 9 p.c. div., 1 p.c, is
labelled bonus, which last term was paid
, from now-exhausted tax-free funds.
Balance-sheet figures show a healthy
rise of £59,246 in book-debts, and a fall
of £29,549 in stocks:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. .. £196,250 £196,250 £196,250
Ord 980,194 1,230,194 1,230,194
Reserves .. . . 236,050 317,719 390,566
Outside interests.. 7,000 7,000
Overdrafts .. 275,452 546,474 548,374
Tax provision .. 171,885 189,523 190,663
Creditors .. .. 533,694 226,634 238,382
Final divs. ~ 98,030 101,780 120,530
£2,498,555 £2,815,474 £2,914,959
Freeholds .. .. 410,899 472,503 512,565
Plant, etc. .. 591,729 701,722 762,646
£1,002,628 £1,174,225 £1,275,211
Less depreciation.. 566,595 634,441 657,959
436,033 539,784 617,252
Shares other cos... 165,189 162,659 158,389
Mortgage .. .. 43,192 42,561 4J.309
Stocks .. .. 1,284,876 1,536,663 1,507,114
Debtors .. ~ 541,027 523,404 582,650
Cash, bonds .. 28,238 20,403 8,245
£2,498,555 £2,815,474 £2,914,959
Net additions of £77,468 to fixed assets
reflect purchase of plant needed to keep
abreast of latest developments, and of
freeholds, including a property for the
new Tasmanian branch of Michaelis,
Hallenstein and Co. Pty. The fall in net
current assets (£1,000,060) was only
£16,099.
Despite the lag in trading before the
Budget, sales for the three months to
September last were reported better than
those of the same period of 1952-53,
though not up to those of the first quar-
ter in 1951-52, and indications are that
the improvement has continued since.
The present outlook is good, and would
be even better if the outdated Australian
Hide and Leather Industries Board,
which is a thorn in the flesh to the whole
trade, were abolished.
F. W. Hughes Industries, Ltd 1 .
THE market is still wondering whether
it paid too much for its portion of
the F. W, Hughes empire when it took
1,250,000 £1 ords. at pariin October, 1951,
and the vendors took £4,061,308
(£2,900,000 in £1 shares and the rest in
cash) for the £566,308 of capital in F.
W. Hughes Pty., Ltd.
The undertaking was valued at
£5,772,210 at the time of the float, equal
to 275. 9d. for each of the 4,150,000 ords.
which comprised the capital of F. W.
Hughes Industries, Ltd., the new public
co. The old book-valuation of the net
assets was £3,043,607. That was equal
to 14s. per share of the new capital. It
was generally assumed that many of the
Hughes assets had been acquired during
the depression period and when values
were much below the post-war level.
Of the assets acquired, wool-treatment
and worsted factory and plant with an
old book-value of £253,919 were revalued
at £1,307,282, but acquired at a lower
figure. This section of the undertaking
has been the most disappointing since
flotation.
In its first term as a public co. the
board reported that there was a serious
decline in the textile section after Janu-
ary, 1952. In respect of the 1952-53 period
“conditions in the textile section were
difficult for the greater part of the year,
but improvement has since been noted.”
In each of the past two years the
board was quite satisfied with results
from the meat and pastoral sections.
After deducting income tax, consoli-
dated net profit was equal to 7.8 p.c. on
capital in 1951-52, and the figure rose to
9 p.c. in the. past term. In both terms
an interim div. of 6 p.c., tax-free, was
paid. Tax-free reserves are now down to
£19,616.
Last year’s profit was written after
setting aside £56,452 (up £21,758) for
depreciation, and £211,141 (down £41,370)
for income tax:
F. W. Hughes Industries and Subsidiaries.
Oct., Profit. / Dividends. ~ Retained.
1952 .. 324,313 6 p.c.* = 249,000 75,313
1953 .. 373,512 6 „ 249,000 124,512
* Tax-free.
Profits have not yet recovered to any-
thing like the prospectus figure of
£790,706 for 1950-51, nor have they come
up to the average of £451,647 for the
five years ended June 30, 1951. This
average represented 10.9 p.c. on present
capital.
At balance-day the difference between
the book-value of shares in F. W. Hughes
Pty,, and the net book-value of that
co.’s assets, including reserves transferred
to the parent, was £923,685.
The structure of the F. W. Hughes
organisation may be summarised as
follows:
F. W. Hughes Industries, Ltd., owns the
whole of the share-capital of F. W. Hughes
Pty., Ltd., and through it a group of subsidiary
companies.
F. W. Hughes Pty. Ltd., is the main operat-
ing co. of a group which was built up by the
late F, W. Hughes and his colleagues over half
a century. The works of this co. at Botany
(N-S.W.) occupy an area of more than 20
acres, and the products are scoured and car-
bonised wool, wool-tops, noils, pickled pelts
and tanned sheepskins. Trading operations are
conducted the world oyer through various
agents and through Pastoral Products, Ltd., a
subsidiary in London. The co. also deals exten-
sively in wool and livestock produced on a
number of stations throughout New South
Wales.
Alexandria Spinning Mills Pty., Ltd., is a
subsidiary of F. W. Hughes Pty., owning large
spinning- and weaving-mills and dye-works at
Alexandria (N.S.W.), where some of the wool-
tops produced at Botany are processed further.
The main products of these mills are hand-
knitting yarns, worsted yarns for the knitting
and weaving industries, and worsted suitings
and frockings. Buildings and yards cover an
area of over acres. A full range of knitting-
wools is produced.
Brookvale Weaving Mills is another unit
in the textile group. The new weaving-mill is
at Brookvale, a northern suburb of Sydney, and
there automatic looms brought from England
are producing worsted suitings and frockings.
Alexandria Textiles Pty., Ltd., is a sub-
sidiary trading as a distributing co. and ware-
house in Sydney and in Melbourne, handling
the textile products of the manufacturing group.
Pastoral Properties. The pastoral section of
F. W. Hughes Industries and its subsidiaries
runs an average of approximately 225,000 sheep
and 6000 head of cattle. Kooba Station, in the
Riverina, is the largest single property, and is
owned by F. W. Hughes Pty. Other pastoral
companies in the group are:
Kiacatoo Pty., Ltd. : Kiacatoo, near Con-
dobolin.
Merriola Pty., Ltd. : Merriola, near Hay.
Nulabor Pty., Ltd.; Nulabor (adjoining
Merriola).
Northern Farming and Grazing Co. Pty.,
Ltd. : Youendah, Marshmead and Tooloora,
near Walgett.
South Benerembah Pty., Ltd. ; Benerembah,
in the Riverina.
Southern Estates Pty., Ltd.: Borambola,
-Corriedale, Lynwood and Little Springs, near
Wagga; Coleman and Pearce, near Tumut;
Booberoi, Eribendery, Marooba and St. Ed-
wards, in the Condobolin-Lake Cargelligo area.
Welbondongah Pastoral Co. Pty., Ltd.:
Welbondongah, near Garah, northern N.S.W.
Stud flocks are maintained at Kooba, Nulabor
and Borambola.
Colonial Meat Co. Pty., Ltd., is a sub-
sidiary in Melbourne, carrying on in fellmonger-
ing, wool-scouring, wholesale butchering and
meat-canning. This co. produces canned meats
under the registered trade-name of Kensington.
The products of this co. are largely for the
export trade, and are handled throughout the
world in the same manner as export products
of the New South Wales companies.
The Colonial Wholesale Meat Co., Pty.,
Ltd., is a subsidiary operating at Homebush,
Sydney, engaged in meat-canning and in whole-
sale butchering. This company markets canned
meats under the trade-name of Bronte.
Both meat-processing cos. produce a wide
range of canned meats, and in the wholesale-
butchery section both companies conduct a
distribution service to retail butchers in the
Melbourne and Sydney metropolitan areas and
also export lamb- and mutton-carcasses.
The wool-selling season has been satis-
factory during the current year, with
prices higher than during the past term.
A 6 p.c. interim, as usual, has been paid,
this time not tax-free. The meat industry
is still doing well.
Balance-sheet figures of F. W. Hughes
Pty. and its subsidiaries are at the old
valuations:
F. W. Hughes Ptt. and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. .. £566,312 £566,812
Reserves .. .. .. 1,616,676 1,722,604
Outside interests .. .. 6,460 6,043
Mortgages .. .. • • 285,798 252,648
Overdraft .. .. • • 383,508 "56.116
Tax provision .. .. • • 205,031
Creditors .. .. • • 190,407
Parent’s advances .. • • 890,184 919,053
Final div 254.954 267,566
£4,399,330 £4.564,342
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 1,371,352 1,497,023
Station properties and improve-
ments 1,557,440 1,501,163
£2,928,792 £2,998,186
Less depreciation .. . • 849,262 895,887
£2,079,530 £2,102,299
Shares other cos. .. .. 6,357 9,170
Stocks .. 2,016,261 1,971,018
Debtors • • • • • • 296,606 481*334
Cash .. .. .. •• 577 521
£4,399,330 £4,564,342
The most interesting item there is
stocks. In the balance-sheet as “Stocks
and stores —at lowest of cost, market- or
replacement-value—less reserve for con-
tingencies,” they stood at £1,971,018
(down £45,243) at balance-day, and
apparently include station livestock.
There appears to be considerable inner
strength in this item.
Net assets of £3,226,315 at June 30
last represented 15s. 6d. per share
of the holding co.’s capital. That
is mainly on original book-values.
It would appear at this stage that
those who paid £1 a share for the
ords. in 1951 got a full 205.-worth of
assets even on today’s valuations, which
are rather lower than in 1951.
The market prices the scrip at 18s. 9d.
to return 6.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
WHALE Industries’ second season
(May to October last) was consider-
ably more successful than its first. The
operating co. caught 700 humpback
whales, against 600 in 1952, extracted, on
the average, a little more oil from each,
and sold the output at slightly better
prices. Trading profit jumped £48,641 to
£191,722; after depreciation (£50,000, up
£30,000) and tax (£36,000, down £17,650)
the net return was £36,291 higher at
£105,722, and the board lifted the div.
from the initial 6 p.c. in 1952 to a cautious
10 p.c.:
Whale Industries and Subsidiaries.
Oct., Profit. , Dividends >, Retained. Deficit.*
Premium paid for subsidiaries’ shares 31,500
Preliminary and establishment exes.,
etc., £45,062 .. .. .. 76,562
1952 .. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 37,331 39,231
Reserves.*
1953 ..105,722 10 „ ~ 53,500 62,222 12,991
* After deducting intangibles, now £51,954.
The tax-charge benefited from an over-
provision, apparently about £15,000, in
1952. Depreciation works out at just
over 8 p.c. on all fixed assets —buildings,
plant, ships, etc. The £105,722 of profit
claimed equalled 19.8 p.c. on the parent’s
paid-up capital of £535,000, compared
with 13 p.c. in 1952.
Whale-oil became an important part of
the world’s supply of edible oils after
the hydrogenation (hardening) process
was discovered and exploited around the
beginning of the century. High-quality
whale-oil can be completely deodorised
and hardened to make a first-class mar-
garine, and its exceptional keeping pro-
perties make it useful for stockpiling
purposes. The oil has had a somewhat
chequered career on world markets, but
after the last war the world-wide short-
age of edible fats and oils sent its
price up to record and very lucra-
tive levels, which led a private firm
(later Nor’-West Whaling Co., Ltd.)
and the Australian Whaling Commission,
a Government body, to begin whaling off
the Westralian coast in 1949.
This co. was floated in August, 1951,
with a public issue of £500,000 in ss.
ords. at par, which was underwritten by
Mainguard (Australia). Shareholders of
three proprietary cos., none of which
was operating, got £35,000 in scrip for
their holdings of £3500. One of the pro-
prietaries, Whale Products Pty. Ltd.,
then proceeded to establish a shore-based
whaling-station at Tangalooma, on More-
ton Island, which lies thirty miles off
Brisbane. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment had granted it a licence to catch and
treat 500 humpback whales per season.
The management wasted no time in
preparing the station for the 1952 season:
whaling commenced on June 6, 1952
a remarkable achievement. But capital
expenditure at £585,000 was 50 p.c.
higher than the prospectus estimate, due
mainly to rising costs, overtime charges
and the need to use costly substitutes for
unavailable plant items. And because
oil-prices crashed from £llO-£l3O sterl-
ing in 1951 to £6O-£75 sterling in 1952,
the season’s profit was disappointingly
low, despite granting of an additional
quota of 100 whales. All this naturally
left the co. short of working capital.
Last season’s operations brought a
welcome improvement in the liquid
position;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. ..£535,000 £535,000
Reserves .... .. .. —• 12,991
Overdraft 87,222
Tax provision ~ .. .. 53,650 89,650
Creditors 80,860 23,873
Final div 32,100 53,500
£788,832 £715,014
Buildings on leasehold land,
plant, etc. .. .. .. 439,591 405,137
Ships .. 125,550 119,152
Stocks 138,305 55,876
Debtors 43,771 54,564
Cash 2,384 80,285
Deficit .. .. .. .. 39,231
£788,832 £715,014
The co. is buying more plant, which will
increase the throughput of whales per
24 hours, thus reducing operating exes.
With the additions the factory will be
capable of handling 1000 whales a season.
Biggest question-mark in Whale Indus-
tries’ future, and a factor which makes a
purchase of the scrip essentially specula-
tive, is the unpredictable course of whale-
-011 prices. The plant is modern and
efficient, and the management seems able,
but it wouldn’t take a very severe drop
in oil prices to chop out the profit-margin.
Price of the oil is now around £B2-3
sterling, and Whale Industries has sold
forward all its estimated 1954 pro-
duction at a better figure (probably up
about 10 p.c.) than last year’s. On
the other hand next season’s catch
has been fixed at 600 —down 100 —and
whether the quota will be increased is
problematical.
On present prospects there seems little
justification for expecting a much bigger
dividend soon or for paying more than the
current price of ss, 4d. for the shares.
Automotive Components, Ltd.
THE operating companies in this group
are Poison Motor Parts Co. Pty-> 0
Braybrook, Melbourne, and Blaxlan
Rae Pty., Camperdown, Sydney, whicn
the parent brought together early J
1952, the declared purpose being »
eliminate competition and
operations, and to promote greater e
ency all round. For the capital of
proprietaries, Automotive Compone
paid £300,000 in its own ss. shares.


BLACK JACK
GOLD MINING COMPANY
NO LIABILITY
In Voluntary Liquidation
fob sale by tender
Drifters, Compressors, Winding Engine,
Air Receiver, 5 Head Stamper, Bat-
tery, Stopehammers, Jackhammers and
Sundry Spare Parts, Pumps, Pipes,
Ropes, etc. All situated at Charters
Towers. Queensland.
Full Particulars Available from —
MR. L. T. CRAWFORD,
Secretary to Liquidators,
Box 1805 W, GJP.O.j Brisbane.
Tenders Close 27 th February, 1954.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
IST
fttctsteßto
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
No home
should be
without it
m
AM
Vi
£7
•‘Vi
tLSPSR/TAji
ao
c orr
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.28.12
Vsv
;
[The NEW
INTERNATIONAL
UTILITY
wins
every
round
Improvements built
into the new AR-Line
International 15 cwt.
Utility confirm it as
the champion of the
cruiser weights.
assist
H
Its power-packed design has been
proved under rigorous "trial by torture”
(International’s test programme) which assures
it has all the punch of a champion for farmer,
grazier or tradesman’s transport.
IT’S A KNOCK-OUT RUNABOUT YOU CAN
PUT YOUR MONEY ON . . .
0 The sturdiest utility in its capacity range.
0 Semi - elliptic front spring and “I”-beam front axle
for more road clearance and less overhang.
Body and payload ideally balanced—flexibly sprung.
0 I'he roomiest cab on the road.
VIRILE 6-CYLINDER SILVER DIAMOND ENGINE
Cylinder block hardened by the addition of chrome.
Molybdenum iron exhaust-valve seat inserts. Extra
compression ring on each piston. U-flex oil rings.
See your local International Truck Dealer or call at the
International Motor Truck Branch in your capital city.
Let us shew you why the new AR-Line International
Utility is best for Australia and YOUR best buy today!
SIX MODELS ;
Capacities from 12 to 23J cwt.—
incorporating these
NEW FEATURES :
CLEAN. ATTRACTIVE STYLING
makes International Utility sleek
and distinctive —combining the
carrying capacity of a small truck
with passenger car comfort.
CUSHIONED - DISC CLUTCH
provides smoother operation,
longer clutch life.
HOLLEY CARBURETTOR improved
design gives increased efficiency,
economy, serviceability.
TWO-PIECE EXHAUST VALVE
minimizes valve stretch, keeps
valve tappet re-adjustments to
minimum.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES WORKS DANDENONG AND GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
PMT 431-36
Subsequently several holders sold
publicly 300,000 of these shares
at par, giving sufficient spread for
public-co. taxation and for list-
ing on Sydney and Melbourne
’Changes. Before the sale free-
holds were written up by £41,729
to £109,651, and plant by
£137,304 to £200,202.
Poison Motor Parts makes a
wide variety of pistons, pins,
rings, king-pins, shackle-pins,
valve-guides, etc. These parts
are supplied throughout Aus-
tralia and N.Z. as initial equip-
ment and replacements for
trucks, tractors, cars and agri-
cultural and industrial equip-
ment.
Blaxland Rae turns out centri-
fugally-cast cylinder-liners and
-sleeves, including a full range
of tractor, bus and car replace-
ments, Chapman “Pup” small
marine-engines, launch equip-
ment, portable pumping-plants,
spur and bevel gears, reduction-
boxes, etc., and does auto-engine
reconditioning. It supplies
cylinder-sleeves and piston-kits
to nearly all the tractor agents
and several of the big car- and
truck-importers in Australia.
In the year to June, 1953, the
post-war boom in the auto-
motive industry, which has taken
the form of a big increase in
Australian manufacture of
vehicles and parts as well as a
phenomenal growth in vehicle-
population, lost some of its vigor.
Import restrictions and the
general tightening of private and
Government expenditure pulled
down overall registrations of new
vehicles by about 26 p.c., reduced
demand for tractors, earthmov-
ing-equipment, etc., and affected
the replacements market, too.
This group’s sales were down,
but the slip of £17,258 in net
earnings was less than might
have been expected;
Automotive Components and Subsids.*
To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. —Dividends—, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’49. 18 479 I Profits of subsidiaries
’50!29131 i adjusted for taxation
’51.A2 473 at public-co. rates.
Aug.,
’52..92,218 5 p.cj=ls,ooo 77,218 152,387
Intangibles appear, £227 .. 152,160
Special depreciation, £lO,OOO. . 142,160
’53..74,960 10 p.c.=30,000 44,960 187,120
* Includes results of subsids. to June 30
in each year.
The £74,960 of profit, written
after charging £7743 for depre-
ciation (up £1192) and £40,693
for tax (down £8828), equalled
25 p.c. on capital, compared
with 30.7, 17.5, 9.7, 6.2 and
5.8 p.c. back to 1948. Deprecia-
tion written off in the accounts is
apparently based on the cost of
fixed assets rather than on their
written-up value, but last term
the board put aside £lO,OOO for
“special depreciation.” That
additional amount should be con-
sidered as a true charge against
profits, since adequate provision
must be made for the preserva-
tion of capital invested in fixed
assets before a profit can be
shown.
Main balance-sheet movements
were a growth of £65,552 in
stocks and a fall of £29,537 in
book-debts, which were accom-
panied by an increase of £20,558
in the bank overdraft:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Dec. 31,
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital. £300,000 £300,000 £BOO,OOO
Reserves .. 126,479 152,387 187,120
Overdraft . . 29,647 22,978 43,536
Tax provision 59,932 66,650 52,591
Creditors .. 55,602 52,062 51,382
Final div. .. 15,000 7,500
£571,660 £609,077 £642,129
Freehold
properties. 109,651 109,651 109,746
Plant, etc... 208,122 225,869 222,812
Stocks . . 136,570 166,792 232,344
Debtors .. 109,743 105,084 75,547
Cash, etc. .. 7.574 1,681 1,680
£571,660 £609,077 £642,129
Stocks have been conservatively
valued, and the increase therein
is a result of the co.’s policy to
give its customers prompt
delivery of a wider range of
parts, says the board. To finance
factory extensions and develop-
ment of new products, share-
holders recently put up a further
£lOO,OOO of capital at par.
With car sales at a higher level
and healthier business conditions
generally, the group should show
a, better result for the current
term. Its long-term prospects
seem reasonably sound, but
changes in the sensitive motor-
vehicle market can be expected
to induce fairly sharp fluctua-
tions in net earnings. The old
ss. ords. at Bs. yield 6.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net assets
cover, including the new issue, is
7s. 4d. a share.
New W.A. Oil Permits
Westralian Mines Minister
Kelly has announced the grant-
ing of new permits to seven
companies to explore for oil in
West Australia. Australasian Oil
Exploration, Ltd., working in
conjunction with Cable Oil
Syndicate, Ltd., has been granted
five oil concessions—aggregating
about 29,500 square miles in the
north, in the Fortescue Basin,
and 26,000 square miles in the
south-east,' in the Upper Eucla
Basin.
Frome Broken Hill Pty., Ltd.,
has been allotted 91,000 square
miles in the s.-e. corner ; Jackson
Exploration, Ltd., 15,800 square
miles near Albany; Goldfields
Petroleum Discovery Syndicate
19,500 square miles on the south
coast near Eucla; Abo Gold
Explorations and Flotations,
Ltd., and Atom Mineral and Oil,
Ltd., jointly 13,000 square miles
adjoining Jackson’s, near
Albany; Carnegie Syndicate
39,000 square miles on the
Canning stock-route near the
S.A. border.
The entire coastal region of
W.A., excepting the south coast
east of Point Nuyts, is under
permit to W.A. Petroleum (the
Ampol offshoot) and Freney
Kimberley. These two enter-
prises control what is believed to
be the pick of the likely W.A.
oil-bearing country.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Melbourne Letter is at present
gathering up her strength for the Royal
visit to her city (which will be fully
reported on this page), and the Sydney
Letter is just about recovered from the
Royal visit to N.S.W. It is rather an
awesome thought, then, that in the
meantime her Majesty continues to be
the centre and focal point of all the
excitement and festivities, moving from
place to place with unruffled dignity,
calmness and composure. No matter
what demands are made upon her there
is no diminution in her self-command
and regal bearing, no relaxing of the
precision with which she is seen always
to perform her duties.
Such ah attitude is not maintained
without great self-sacrifice and devotion
to duty, a fact that will be more appre-
ciated in the Commonwealth as the tour
progresses and increasing numbers of
people realise the nervous strain it
involves.
Sydney has had fleeting glimpses of
the Royal couple during the week.
Although they have been staying at
Government House they have been up
to Lismore, over to Dubbo, down to
Wollongong and back in one day, up
to the Blue Mountains, over to Wagga,
and are now in Canberra. “She goes
out a lot, doesn’t she?” said one elderly
woman in the crowds which welcomed
and farewelled them during the week.
The city reflects in its appearance the
absence of the Queen. Rain has fallen
intermittently and humidity has set in
unrelentingly. Some of the banners have
been torn, the dye has run in others
and in spite of efforts to maintain them
in all their pristine splendor there is a
general impression that the party is over.
Still, there have been some very
glamorous occasions during the past week,
including three large dances at the
Trocadero, when the clothes were more
splendid than Sydney has seen for years,
and where new standards were sej for
such functions in this city.
The age of elegance returned to
Sydney for a while when the Confer-
ence of the Joint Empire Societies in
N.S.W. held a ball at the Trocadero to
commemorate the Royal visit. For grace
and perfection of detail nothing has been
seen like tiys ball for many years.
Although there were over 1000 guests,
each table was set as carefully as for a
private supper-party, with sparkling linen
and silver, long low arrangements of
flowers, little dishes of olives and almonds,
and at each place a menu printed in royal-
blue on richly-embossed white paper tied
with red-white-and-blue ribbon. White
candles in green holders lit each table;
those on the official table were silver.
The flowers, which had been arranged
by Mrs. Robert Dixon, were all white,
but mingled with pale-green foliage they
took on a subtle, greenish tinge. On
each side of the bandstand three flags
were placed at an acute angle to one
another, their 25-foot-long poles empha-
sised by a tall spear-like frond between
them.
Single tickets for this ball were five
guineas, and the drinks had been provided
by the committee. They were served in
the correct manner by waiters from side-
tables. They included an abundance of
champagne and Scotch whisky, as well as
fruit-cup and the more plebeian drinks.
The supper, which was delicious, con-
sisted of seafood cocktail, supreme of
chicken, asparagus, glace a la reine and
black coffee.
The dressing was uniformly good, with
spots here and there of brilliance. Nearly
everyone wore long white gloves, so that,
had the Queen been pleased to look in,
there was no one there unprepared for
presentation. As it was, Lady Pamela
Mountbatten and Viscount Althorp, of
the Royal Household, did visit the ball
during the evening and were welcomed
by Mr. W. J. Bradley, Mrs. H. H. McNall
and Sir Keith and Lady Smith.
Lady Smith wore a strikingly-beautiful
dress of grey net glittering all over with
rhinestones and diamente, and with it a
diamond pendent brooch. Mrs. Rupert
Scammeli wore white chiffon embroidered
with gold on the bodice. Mrs. M. Selby
Davidson’s slate-blue satin sheath-gown
was embroidered with gold wheat-
sheaves and pearl-drops. Mrs. Alan
Foott’s dress was brocade in a delicate
pink shade.
During the evening eightsome reels
were danced by members of the N.S.W.
Highland Society, who astonished all not
only by their grace but by their fortitude
in dancing so strenuously on so hot a
night. Among those who watched them
were Mr. and Mrs. Bertram Wright, Mrs.
Persia Porter, Dr. and Mrs. Robert Gill,
Mr. and Mrs. George Bardsley, Mr. and
Mrs. Roy Michael, Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
Rigby, Miss M. Gillespie and Mr. Gordon
Turnbull, Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Twigden,
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Wilson.
This ball has been reported at some
length because of its outstanding quality.
Not only the “ball of the year,” but the
ball of many years past, it was worthy of
a Royal occasion.
ir ☆ ☆
The following night the Ball of the
Royal Australian Artillery Association
was held, also at the Troc., and drew an
attendance of nearly 1300 people. The
splendor of the military uniforms was
as brilliant as in the past, but since seeing
the Duke of Edinburgh, Sir William Slim
and Sir John Northcott in all the glory
of their white uniforms at the Official
Landing, Sydney has grown just a little
blase about mere red mess-jackets, waist-
coats, etc.
Nevertheless the ball was a very bright
spectacle. Women wore their most
glamorous dresses, and the bunch of 16
debs, was as beautiful as a bunch of
flowers. It was noted that several of the
girls wore strapless dresses, which is
rather a departure for debutantes. Among
them were Margot McFadyen, daughter
of the Lionel McFadyens, Ranier San-
derson, Virginia Munro from Bingara,
and Lillian Litchfield from Cooma.
They were introduced to the guests-of-
honor, Lady Pamela Mountbatten and
Admiral Abel Smith, and to Mrs. Jock
Pagan, by the matron-of-honor, Mrs.
Gregory Kater, whose dress was of lemon
organdie with a folded bodice sprinkled
with rhinestones. Mrs. Pagan’s dress was
of pale coffee organdie embroidered with
clusters of black-and-white flowers and
trimmed with white organdie.
It would be hard to single out dresses
from such a splendid array, but Mrs.
Eric Pratten’s pale-pink chiffon, very in-
tricately draped, took the eye. Mrs.
Hector Livingston’s dress of ice-blue
satin, with its large sprays of sparkling
diamente, was also striking. Beth Camp-
bell looked magnificent in red lace. Mrs.
A. F. Albert, whose home the Queen had
visited during the weekend, wore a lovely
dress of lavender chiffon with two pink
roses.
The large official party included Lieut.-
General Berryman and Mrs. Berryman,
Lady Maugham, Colonel B. Watchorn
and Mrs. Watchorn, Captain and Mrs.
Bruce Perdriau. Also present were
Major-General W. J. V. Windeyer and
Mrs. Windeyer.
The proceeds of this ball were divided
between the Big Brother Movement, the
Crippled Children’s Society and Legacy.
* ☆ *
The Red Cross Ball on Thursday night
had all its usual warmth and liveliness
plus a little more. The table-decorations,
for which it is famous, this year mostly
featured flowers, and the official table was
most original with its green tablecloths
and long trails of vine-leaves and purple
and green grapes. Mrs. Tom Bateman’s
table won first prize with a veritable
tower of flowers. Others featured minia-
tures of London scenes, cornucopias of
fruit (the Greek community’s table), and
Royal emblems, including a very gay
crown with winking lights, which was the
centrepiece of Mrs. T. W. Radford’s
table.
Guests-of-honor at the ball were Lady
Alice Egerton and Lieut.-Commander
Steele-Perkins of the Royal Household,
and the Lord Mayor, Aid. P. D. Hills,
and Mrs. Hills. Hosts Mr. J. F. Clack
and Mrs. C. M. Guiney entertained a
record official party of 88 members.
Again the dressing was notable. Mrs.
Guiney’s dress was sapphire-blue chenille-
embossed georgette, Mrs. Allan Williams
wore grey Chantilly outlined in silver
with a coral ostrich-fan. Mrs. Allan
Williams Jnr.’s lovely gown was a pale-
blue gauze woven with gold over blue
net. Mrs. Bateman’s cream net was
appliqued with lace outlined in gold.
Mrs. W. M. Oong wore royal blue net
with sequin embroidery.
Mrs. Don Service wore the Hartnell
model of white net completely em-
broidered with diamente which had
been so much admired at the Empire
Ball on the Monday. (Someone said
it sparkled like the Milky Way.) Mrs.
T. M. Innes, of Walgett, was with
Mrs. W. Kelly of Boorowa. Mr. and
Mrs. R. Lay entertained in their party
Dr. and Mrs. C. Perec, the latter in a
sheath-gown of bronze satin with teal-
green roses. Mrs. Gordon Johnstone’s
dress was a white embroidered sheath
with a tulle overskirt. Mrs. C. B. Wen-
cott looked statuesque in white. Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn contrasted her black tulle
with white gloves.
Hostess to the Queen. Miss Elizabeth
Northcott, daughter of the Governor of
N.S.W., Sir John Northcott. is one of
the few younger members of the com-
munity whom the Queen has met in
N.S.W. Miss Northcott was not present
at the landing ceremony in Farm Cove,
but greeted the Queen when she returned
from her Royal progress through the
city, and was in the Royal party at the
Lord Mayor’s Ball, Miss Northcott was
one of the guests at the Ball of the Royal
Artillery Association this week, when
she was accompanied by her fiancé,
Squadron-Leader Russell Nash. Photo
by Falk.
It has gradually become clear after
various State banquets, civic luncheons
and similar functions that Australia’s
gala menu consists almost invariably of
fruit-cocktail, chicken, asparagus, ice-
cream meringue and black coffee. It is
pleasant enough menu, but not imagin-
ative. Oysters would have been included,
it is certain, but that it is known that the
Queen does not care for them. It was
not known, however, until the luncheon
in Sydney that her Majesty does not eat
bread, except in the form of Melba
toast (for which it seems that the Duke
has a taste also).
The Queen has been noted to omit
sweets as a rule, and does not seem very
much interested in food at all. At the
luncheon for women’s organisations in
Sydney she drank only orange-juice,
although her sergeant-footman, a mag-
nificently-garbed person in a bright-red
coat, was standing ready to serve sherry
and sauterne should she wish it.
Her Majesty is always served at table
by her page (who is not a young boy in
ruffles and velvet as the name might
imply), and he is in turn served by a
waiter or waitress. Her Majesty does
not dine out unless attended by her page.
Those who in the past have hesitated
to use lipstick after luncheon will be in-
terested to know that the Queen sanc-
tions it, but it must be added that her own
application of lipstick is unobtrusive and
brief.
One of the things that has been noticed
about the Queen is her exquisite dainti-
ness and the ease with which she seems
to maintain her immaculate grooming.
No matter how long the drive, she always
emerges from the car as fresh and un-
rumpled as from a bandbox. At
Lismore reporters were puzzled as to how
she kept her white shoes clean after
walking 50 yards along a muddy path.
It was thought that she may have changed
them quickly or had them cleaned, but
it is quite possible she just didn’t get
them splashed.
In Australia the Queen has worn white
shoes on all but one occasion in the day-
time. Although high-heeled, they are
open-toed and sling-backed for coolness
and comfort. The long periods of stand-
ing are very demanding, and the Queen
is often seen to rise on her toes and back
again to relieve the strain. In the Royal
Box at the Tivoli Theatre a footstool was
provided for her Majesty, which was
probably appreciated. The suggestion by
an official of the theatre, however, that
the Queen might like “to kick her shoes
off” is something one could not imagine
a person of such correctness ever dream-
ing of doing.
The Queen has not worn in Sydney
any dress as short as that which she wore
in the Bahamas. None of her dresses
seems shorter than 13in. from the ground,
and her coats are even longer. Her hats
have all been small and head-hugging,
and her gloves and handbag always
white. There, has been none of the
“off-the-peg” dresses, although she has
worn cotton once or twice.
In the evening her dresses have often
been very simple. At the concert she
wore a lavender organza patterned with
grey, its neckline and sleeves scalloped
and its only adornment a satin sash tied
at the side. Her gown for the opening
of the N.S.W. Parliament was cream lace
with a scoop neckline and puff-sleeves.
It is the magnificence of her jewels
which is so breathtaking at night. Mostly
she has worn her “lace-work” tiara which
was given to her by Queen Mary as a
wedding - present, chandelier diamond
earrings, a sapphire-and-diamond • neck-
lace or a necklace of diamonds worked
into hoops around pearls. In the day-
time she mostly wears her three-row
necklet of pearls with their diamond
clip, pearl earrings and sometimes a
diamond brooch.
There’s a nice little Royal-visit story
about the three-year-old who burst into
tears after seeing the Queen. “What’s
the matter?” asked his mother. “1
didn’t see her making any tarts!” wailed
the child.
One of the decorations of which the
city is proudest is the giant lion-and-
unicorn shaping-up to one another over
the Bridge toll-gates. “I wish they’d
take that down,” said a man in the bus
the other day. “It always reminds me
of a bus-conductor and a passenger
having a barney.” And it does, too, when
looked at in that light.
Another gathering which was honored
by the presence of members of the Royal
household was the reception at Prince’s
by the Overseas League. Here Viscount
Althorp, equerry to the Queen, was guest-
of honor, as he is a member of the
central council of the Overseas League
headquarters in London. Lady Pamela
Mountbatten was also present. The 400
guests were received by Sir Keith and
Lady Smith, the latter wearing a Dior
model of black wild-silk. They included
Major and Mrs. Cecil Chapman, Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Parsons, Brigadier and Mrs.
F. G. Galleghan and Mr. and Mrs. K.
Morris.
Celebrating the Royal visit with a talk
by an Englishwoman, the women’s sec-
tion of the American Club were kept
simmering with laughter by Lady Bissett
at their monthly meeting last week. Lady
Bissett, who spoke on touring round Aus-
tralia, mostly in the far north, also made
the Australians present ashamed of the
lack of knowledge about their own
country, and her vigorous and humor-
ous descriptions of the life round about
Torres Strait made her audience feel
that there were great adventures to be
found in this continent for those who are
adventurous enough to find them. The
club meeting was chaired by Mrs. J. H.
Dennett, and Mrs. Mabel Wain Smith
introduced Lady Bissett, to whom a cor-
sage of white flowers was presented.
Of the exhibitions being held in town
at present, that of the Royal Regalia is
undoubtedly the most popular. Since it
opened at the beginning of the Royal
visit people have been viewing it at the
rate of 1200 per hour, or about 8000 a
day. Special buses have been running
from Wynyard to the Art Gallery, where
the exhibition is being held, and crowds
have waited in queues for as long as an
hour to view it.
The most striking exhibit is the purple
velvet robe of State which the Queen
wore at the Coronation. Its train is about
25ft. long, and the whole robe weighs
381 b. (which makes one marvel at the
Queen’s strength and powers of endur-
ance). The robe, which is a very beauti-
ful shade of purple, has a wide band ot
gold embroidery and a sin. border ot
ermine.
Also very interesting to see are the
Parliamentary robe of scarlet velvet, the
Duke’s robe with its ermine cape, the
gorgeous supertunica (a long straight
garment of cloth of gold), girdle and sto e
worn by the Queen during the Corona-
tion, the canopy which was held oyer
her Majesty during the anointing, and me
richly-embroidered Coronation glove.


Missing Friend
WOULD LESLIE FRANCIS CROSLING'.
formerly of 14 Arlington Street, Regent,
Victoria, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
DUDLEY A. TREGENT. Solicitor, of 422
Collins Street, Melbourne? MU 9138.
Divorce Notices
TO ARTHUR EDWARD NEILL (also
known as ARTHUR EDWARD WAYNE)
formerly of Sydney, New South Wales;
Adelaide, South Australia; Lome, Vic-
toria ; but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife NELLIE GIS-
ELLA EVANS NEILL has instituted pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court
of the State of Victoria in its Divorce
and Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction for
a dissolution Of her marriage to you on
the ground of desertion AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court of Victoria on
or before the Third day of March 1954
and file an answer thereto on or before
the Tenth day of March 1954 the case may
proceed in your absence.—LLOYD P.
GOODE, LL.B., of 476 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the abovenamed
Petitioner.
TO WILLIAM ROY WILTON address
unknown. NOTICE that your wife
LORRICE JUNE WILTON has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of separation of the parties
for a continuous period of not less than
5 years there being no reasonable likeli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed If
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must within 30 days after the date of
this publication file in the Central Office
Supreme Court at Perth a statement of
your defence In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce Judgment and make Orders
against you. DATED the 3rd day of
February, 1954. —G. J. BOYLSON, Regis-
trar. VILLENEUVE, SMITH. KEALL &
HATFIELD, 23 Barrack Street, Perth.
Legal Notice
ESTATE OF MARSHALL COBURN
WILL THOMAS COBURN, who was born
at Bealiba in 19-00, the son of JOHN
COBURN and MARGARET L. COBURN
(formerly McGLADDERY), or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 4L2
Collins Street, Melbourne ?
Public Notices
WE. THEODORE and NATAI,IE~ B MT Cl I,
of Yugoslav nationality, born at Vienna
and Pantchevo, resident 4 A years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Lot 7, Abigail
Street, Seven Hills, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, STAYROPOULOS ALEXANDER. ~of
Greek nationality, born in Athens, Greece,
resident 5 years in Australia, and now
residing at 303 Prairievale Road, Bossley
Park, N.S.W., intend to apply for natu-
ralisation under the Nationality and Citi-
zen shipAcL_Ul4B : _____
iTSTAYROPOULOS ULYSSES JHON, of
Greek nationality, born in Portaria Volos,
Greece, resident 5 years in Australia, now
residing at 303 Prairievale Road, Bossley
Park, N.S.W., intend to apply for natu-
ralisation under the Nationality and Citi-
zenship Act, 1948.
is picture time..
\ jt\
- :
■' : V-‘'
mm
am
pviMlir
Everyone likes good
animal pictures. Pets pro-
vide endless, quaint and
interesting poses that make
for ‘‘‘super” pictures, so
keep your camera handy
and loaded with Kodak
Film . . . Verichrome or
Super-XX.
Kodak Film is dependable
because it’s made in Aus-
tralia to suit Australian
conditions; it’s the film
that gets the picture.
m
w
Yfi
m
ih
%
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. XNH5.53
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Lady’s Not For
Burning”
This, put on by the Union
Theatre Repertory group at
Melbourne University, is
Christopher Fry at his most bril-
liant, most verbose and most
undergraduatedly provocative.
It isn’t all words, however.
The war-weary soldier who
wants to be hanged because it is
worth being hanged to be a hero
—seeing that life is not really
worth living—and who confesses
to murders he hasn’t committed
is an individual. So is the beauti-
ful young woman who doesn’t
want to be burned for witch-
craft.
There is also a force about the
mob outside screaming for the
superstitions that the mayor of
the town only half-believes in.
The only thing he does believe
in is the proper procedure to be
followed when a man asks to be
hanged, or when a witch asks
not to be burned, because, if she
does burn, that will prove
she is not a witch, as a witch
could turn the fire into water if
she wanted to.
The chaplain, bewildered by
everything about him, including
himself, and solacing himself
with music, is a delightful figure.
The rest are nonentities who
nevertheless come in for a full
share of the author’s inexhaust-
ible supply of verbal fireworks.
The piece was purveyed by the
Repertorians at a speed which
made it difficult to distil the
poetry, disentangle the various
motives and differentiate one
character from another, since
Fry has endowed them all with
his own wit, quality of satire and
felicity of expression. Alex
Scott turned in a good perform-
ance as the soldier, and Zoe
Caldwell as the witch burned
with uncommon brightness. The
chaplain, the only wise man in
the play, was made the most
arresting by Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy’s sensitive performance.
♦>
“Corroboree”
The aboriginal ballet to John
Antill’s music, presented at
Sydney Tivoli by the Arts
Council, f lW roves on closer
acquaintance. The music has
enormous vigor and its fascinat-
ing rhythmic - patterns were
stamped out with great strength
by the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under the baton of the
composer, who drew heavily on
the brass section for his most
telling effects.
The ballet has been greatly
strengthened by Beth Dean’s
new choreography, which makes
the various totemic phases
much clearer than they were in
the original version. The
shattering effect of the climax,
in which the initiate is con-
fronted with the fire-tree hazard,
was enhanced by the imagina-
tive treatment wherein the
natives in their dance-dementia
bore strikingly-good replicas of
flaming tree-branches.
The ceaseless movements, too,
of the various groups —the
elders, the mothers of the young
warriors, and the totem-men —
have been skilfully integrated
to give a good spread to the
crowded stage. The peculiar
angular dance-form of the
aboriginal has been faithfully
maintained.
The other ballet presented was
“Pas de Quatre,” a delicious
piece of drollery which plays
on the jealousies of famous
ballerinas as they appear
together before Royalty.
Arthur Benjamin’s one-act
opera “The Devil Take Her,”
repeated from last season, had
Ronald Dowd as the harassed
poet whose dumb wife has her
voice restored, to his undoing,
and Jacqueline Talbot as the
virago-spouse.
Frank Lisle, whose doctor-
cwm-devil had a nicely-sardonic
touch, sang with spirit and
power. Two good characterisa-
tions were notched by an almost-
unrecognisable Alan Light as the
doctor’s factotum and Rachel
Neale as the factotum’s open-
mouthed offsider.
Benjamin’s witty score follows
the twists of the story adroitly
and packs an extra punch in
the final scene of domestic
strife.
The other offering was the
first act of “La Boheme,” in
which Ronald Dowd showed
some signs of voice-strain in his
singing in the high-reaches of
“Your Tiny Hand Is Frozen.”
Tais Taras was an appealing frail
Mimi whose voice was par-
ticularly engaging in the middle
of its gamut, while Geoffrey
Chard’s Marcel was a model of
Bohemian gaiety and baritonal
resonance.
Artbursts
Barry Kay, showing ballet
drawings at the Peter Bray Gal-
lery in Melbourne, is not a
Degas. His wriggles and blobs
of violent color and his expres-
sionless moonlike faces don’t
indicate an interest in the ballet
but in some conventional idea
of decoration. How much ex-
pression he can give to a face is
indicated by his portrait of
Barbara May, a painting of a
good-looking young lady which
is singularly lacking in feeling.
His stage designs are better,
having some space about them,
but most of his decor is self-
consciously eccentric.
Talkies
“Melba”
The most remarkable thing
about the “Melba” film at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum is the suc-
cessful way that Melba has been
left out of it. The producers,
apparently, were unaware of the
facts about Melba, except, per-
haps, for a few from Who’s
Who, and even those have been
distorted.
They have used about three
of the facts —that Melba was
born in Melbourne, that she
married and that she sang in
various opera-houses. There-
after they ignore that extra-
ordinary, unusual, boisterous
and vital singer and bring in a
perfectly innocent girl (played
“It's quite simple: It says, ‘Will you take Emily Smith to
be your wedded wife?' —and you say, 'I will.’ ”
by Patrice Munsell) whose
voice, for all one knows, might
be as good as Melba’s was, but
whose reactions in every case
presented are practically the
opposite of Melba’s.
Miss Munsell might domin-
ate a season ; Melba dominated
a generation. The screen Melba
shows every indication of want-
ing to give up her career for a
humdrum suburban life with
her handsome squatter. It is
doubtful if an idea of that sort
ever entered Melba’s head, any
more than it entered her head to
cancel her appearance when a
chauffeur once slammed the door
of her car on her fingers at the
old Auditorium in Melbourne.
Beverley Nichols’s novel.
Evensong, though a trifle spite-
ful, gave a much better picture
of Melba. The woman he de-
picted may have been this or
that, but at least she wasn’t
ordinary. The book, however,
met with such objections that
the film people were probably
scared off it.
tj*
“Forever Female”
A mildly-amusing backstager
with an adroit side-kick at the
ageing actress who still wants to
play the glamorous heroine in
her twenties, when she should be
portraying the same damsel’s
mother. Ginger Rogers is the
lady who is brought to see the
rightful claims of Anno Domini
only after much heart-searching
and the forceful urgings of an
up-and-coming teenager, played
with well-sustained verve by an
engaging newcomer, Pat
Prince Edward.
“The Jazz Singer”
To commemorate the 25th
anniversary of the first talkie
Warner Bros, have done a re-
make of it. It is in technicolor,
and this and the improvement
in the sound-track are the only
points at which this version is
superior to that in which
A 1 Jolson was the star.
The actin g by Danny
Thomas, as the cantor’s son
who bitterly disappoints his
father by preferring to howl
nit-tunes in nightclubs than sing
“Kol Nidrei” in the Synagogue,
and by Peggy Lee, as the goil
who lures him to the plaudits —
is dreadful. Thomas is no A 1
Jolson, and Miss Lee whinges a
couple of numbers and hangs
around hoping for the best.
The only one in the cast who
looks like an actor is Edward
Franz, whose cantor is a figure
of dignity. At Sydney Mayfair.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
THE charge was almost out,
the rope a taut bar. Sher-
wood stepped further back
clear, judging the heavy
canister would swing when it
cleared the mud. The next
instant he heard a squashing
thud, and felt the mud splash
on his thighs. He groped
forward, and found the charge,
embedded deeper than it was
before.
You bloody fools! He
guessed what had happened.
Probably snubbed the rope on
the guard-rail to get a better
grip, and the explosive-packed
canister had taken charge.
Feverishly he felt for the ring.
The hook had slipped out.
For one second he debated
flight. Swimming for his life
away and upwards, thrusting as
far as he could from the disrup-
tive violence jammed in the mud.
It must be ready to go, any
second now,
Sherwood had never known
fear as he knew it now. It dried
his mouth, and threatened to fill
his mouth with vomit. And all
the time he swung his arms in a
wide circle, feeling, praying for,
the rope.
He caught it on one elbow,
and in a trice had slipped the
hook on. Again the jerk on the
rope, again the tautening.
This time they had more hands.
The depth-charge resisted a
moment, then slid with a sucking
sigh from the embracing mud.
It cleared the bottom and
swung. Sherwood’s shoulder
caught the weight. It stumbled
him sideways on to his knees, his
arms up to his elbows in the
stinking, gluey slime, his eyes
staring at the knowledge of what
that bump could have done to
the needle.
Then he was stumbling
awkwardly towards the piles of
the wharf, to get a grip to haul
his feet from the clutch of the
mud and send himself to the
surface.
Three seamen, Baumer among
them, hauled On the rope they
threw him. He came up over
the edge of the pier, gasping,
snatching off the oxygen mask.
God, that air felt good! Pant-
ing, he looked at the quarter-
deck. The torpedo-gunner was
bent oyer a muddy cylinder,
screwing, his face puckered with
concentration. He pulled out a
fat cylinder from a hollow tunnel
in the charge, stood up, and
hurled the primer well out in the
bay. They waited. A second or
two, and a dull, water-damped
crack reached them. On the
surface a widening patch of
smooth water spread.
The torpedo-gunner kicked the
depth-charge.
“Now go up!” he grunted.
Sherwood saw himself the
target for a dozen pairs of eyes.
He felt suddenly embarrassed
and slightly ridiculous. Now the
danger was past, he realised, with
a return of the vomity feeling,
what he could have let himself
in for.
He looked at Baumer.
“Thanks for sending that line
down.”
Baumer nodded, his gaze
stony.
“Well,” Sherwood went on
lamely, “I’d better get a shower.”
Baumer followed him a few
paces along the pier, clear of
the group of watching seamen.
“Sherwood,” he called, his
voice low. The other turned.
“Yes?”
“When you’re dressed, I want
to see you in my cabin. That is,
when the plaudits have died.”
Sherwood looked at him, his
face strained. Of course—the
bloody hero again! Then,
abruptly, in a revulsion of feel-
ing, he felt tired of fighting this
man and his tortured misinter-
pretation of his actions. With
the feeling came a strange relief.
From no Won, he decided, you
can go your damnedest. If any-
thing happens in the cabin. I’ll see
the captain.
“Yes, sir,” he answered, and
walked on.
Sherwood saw the captain
sooner than he expected. He was
waiting for him at the head of
the gangway. The Fireflier had
never realised just how long that
gangway was—until he had to
walk up it with an audience wait-
ing for him at the top.
The captain held out his hand.
“Well done, Sherwood,” he
said quietly. It /was the Navy’s
traditional measure of praise.
The Strike Leader felt no
embarrassment at the captain’s
words. Coming from this man,
they kindled a sweet thrill. He
grinned.
“Lucky there’s no flying for a
day or so, sir. The old knees,
you know ...”
The captain nodded, and, with
a sound sense of the psycho-
logical value of things, turned
and walked off. Sherwood, slap-
ping the water from his body to
relieve the embarrassment
engendered by the stares of the
others, trotted towards the
quarter-deck, and his cabin. As
he moved off, he caught sight of
Baumer, standing near the
destroyer’s quarter-deck, watch-
ing the reception scene at the
head of the gangway. Baumer
saw Sherwood looking at him,
and turned abruptly towards the
destroyer.
Hap came in while Sherwood
was towelling himself, a grin as
wide as the Panhandle on his
brown face.
“Here, sink this, feller.” He
held out a glass of whisky.
“Hap,” Sherwood murmured,
“you’re an all-time high in mind-
reading. Skoll.”
Hap watched him, slowly
folding a stick of gum into his
ready jaws. “Speakin’ of mind-
reading—’member that little
sayin’ about speak of the devil;
or, likewise and then some, the
one about many a true word?
Don’t you ever tell me nothin’
more about them damn tin-cans
an’ what they can do.”
Sherwood grinned back at
him. He had needed that whisky.
“Is that jeep ride of yours still
on?”
“She sure is.”
“Right. After lunch.”
Hap rolled the gum in his
mouth, looking quizzically at
the other. “An’ the paper-
work?”
Sherwood looked back over
his shoulder from combing his
hair. “You know what you can
do with the paper-work?”
“I sure do,” answered Hap.
“Page by page. Okay, boy, I’ll
be seem’ yuh.”
When he had gone, Sherwood
finished dressing, stowed his
other clothes in the bunk-drawer
where the steward would find
them, then stepped out of his
cabin, heading for Baumer’s. He
was quite determined on his
action now. He would see the
captainif Baumer’swords justified
it, laying before him the whole
story —standfast his own attack
on commander air—and suggest-
ing that the welfare of the ship
depended on one or the other
being appointed elsewhere. He
was honest enough, and human
enough, to appreciate the fact
that the depth-charge incident
would, perhaps, swing the
captain in his favor; it certainly
would not prejudice his case.
Baumer, obviously, was wait-
ing for him. He was standing
back against his bunk, facing
the door, smoking nervously.
He wasted no time.
“Sherwood,” he began, as
soon as the big pilot had stepped
in, “you realise you disobeyed
my direct order regarding that
diving-gear? Why?”
Got me on the hip again,
Sherwood thought wryly. But
it’ll be your last time, friend.
You —or I—are heading places—
on diverging courses. Aloud, he
answered:
“Because, sir, I considered I
was better qualified to do the
job.” He realised, as soon as he
saw the look on Baumer’s face,
the tactlessness of the reply.
Baumer controlled himself
visibly, his mouth pinched into a
thin line.
“May X ask why?” he said
evenly.
Sherwood answered, partly
honestly.
“Because I did a short course
with a frogman team early in the
war before I took to flying. I’m
used to underwater work.”
“Have you any knowledge of
my service experience?”
“No, sir.”
“So on the assumption that
you are the only man in the ship
with underwater experience, you
wilfully disobeyed the command
of a senior officer?”
Oh, God, Sherwood groaned
inwardly. You pompous ass!
Much more of this and I will
tell you why. He stared at
Baumer’s reddening face, the
anger which sight of him always
engendered mounting within
him. He tried to crush it, realis-
ing that he must watch his step.
On the wharf, two officers
wrangling about who should go
down to delouse a depth-charge
was ridiculous; in the calmly
judicious atmosphere of a court-
martial room, it would be even
more so—for the junior officer
who had ignored a direct order.
“No,” Sherwood answered,
holding himself in. “It’s not
quite like that ...”
Baumer interrupted him, his
voice almost a shriek. Sherwood
drew his head back in astonish-
ment.
“No, it’s not quite like that!
Tell me, damn you! Tell me!
Why did you go down instead
of me? Why! Why!”
He leaned forward to glare
into Sherwood’s face, his own
working under the vehemence of
his outburst.
No decision the Strike Leader
had ever made was as irrevoc-
able as the one he made now.
The sight of Baumer’s apoplectic,
furious face convinced him that,
here and now, this had to stop.
He lifted his head, and stared
straight into Baumer’s eyes.
“Yes, Commander Baumer,”
he said quietly. “I’ll tell you
why. I went down on to that
depth-charge because I believe
you have lost your nerve. And
because I believe that, under
those circumstances, you could
not have got the rope on in
time.”
While he was speaking, Sher-
wood’s gaze was catlike, ready
for a spring. He could not have
been more surprised at Baumer’s
answer if it had been a pistol
produced and aimed at his head.
Baumer leant back against the
bunk, his arms outstretched on
either side, and stared levelly at
Sherwood. His voice was low
and quiet, almost relieved.
“All right, Sherwood. That’s
all. You can clear out now.”
Bemused, the Strike Leader
walked along the passage towards
his cabin. He felt himself
floundering. Baumer’s astonish-
ing change of attitude was com-
pletely outside the scope of his
experience of men, culled under
all conditions of warfare. He
had known men crack before;
God knows they had reason
enough to. But these appreciated
their condition, unpleasant as it
was. Most of them, good pilots
previously, had relied on their
record to keep their memories
untarnished in the ships they
had left. Sherwood could appre-
ciate Baumer’s feelings, his desire
to prove to himself that the old
guts was still there. What he
could not understand, was
Baumer’s persistence, to the point
of endangering the ship’s
efficiency, in the effort. A normal
man—insofar as the term could
be applied—would have recog-
nised his disability and have
been bloody glad to get away
from the cause of it. That part
of it, Baumer’s persistence, Sher-
wood could have possibly under-
stood, had he devoted the subject
much thought, and had he had
Swan to enlighten him. But the
abrupt change in Baumer’s atti-
tude in his cabin was quite
beyond him.
His worrying thoughts' were
interrupted by a pipe, blaring
from the loudspeakers.
“D’ you hear there!” The
precursor to all important
announcements, as distinct from
routine pipes.
“All shore leave has been can-
celled. Ship will sail at 1000.”
The words pushed thoughts of
Baumer abruptly from the Strike
Leader’s mind. An emergency
sailing meant only one thing—
somebody was in trouble. He
hurried to the smoke-room, to
find out the reason for the sudden
change of plans.
In his cabin, Baumer, too,
heard the pipe. Bent over an open
drawer in his desk, he stared
sideways out through the door,
a wondering look on his face,
as though the loudspeaker in the
passage had delivered a message
especially for him.
Slowly he pushed the drawer
shut, and sank down in his chair.
There was misery in his eyes,
CHAPTER XV
T>Y noon Hawk was clear at
" sea, thrusting through a
moderate sea at 20 knots. In
her cavernous hangar, redolent
with the smell of rubber and
oil, maintenance crews sweated
over their charges, stacked in
broken-winged, serried ranks the
length of the hangar.
Here the pulsing of the great
ship could be felt plainly, the
steel bulkheads creaking in pro-
testing unison as she bucketed
through the liquid green troughs.
She was close to her top speed,
the giant turbines singing their
song of power unleashed in an
exultant, high-pitched scream.
On the flight-deck there was,
as yet, little activity, except for
a group of stoker-mechanics
((Continued on page 22 )
SYNOPSIS
With his friend Swan killed
while saving Sherwood, and with
Baumer making slighting refer-
ence to the little fighter-pilot, the
long-smouldering hatred between
squadron commander and com-
mander-air erupts. Sherwood
savagely attacks Baumer.
Appalled, later, by what he has
done, Sherwood finds other
worries on his hands ; Natalie
tells him she is pregnant. Un-
decided what action he will take
in this new contretemps, Sher-
wood sees a “live” depth-charge
accidentally slip from a
destroyer’s stern close ahead of
Hawk. He at once decides to go
down and attach a line to the
explosive charge. On the pier,
hurriedly dressing in a shallow-
water diving-suit, Sherwood is
accosted by Baumer, who orders
him to hand the diving-suit over.
Sherwood ignores the order,
jumps into the harbor and
desperately secures a line to the
depth-charge.


f
Bootes group
'-fieiC&Uf
PRESENTS
ms
ill
mm
-
■
Mi
11
:
■
iRS
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.Y. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
mm
ps
mmm
m
Hi
mm
5
mm
jgmfli
m
■
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk, Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
.
wm
m
mmmm
:
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind th<
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-qne thousanc
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family foi
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
Products of the Rootes Croup, Melbourne, Australia.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS • CONNER, HARRIER TRUCKS


working in overalls and greasy
cloth berets round the catapult-
launching mechanism. But, deep
in her vitals, well under the level
of the green and' white sea, pro-
tected on either side from entry
by oil-fuel tanks, the gunner
and his party labored in the
bomb-magazine, swinging the
500-pounders clear of their bins,
stacking the squat, explosive-
packed bodies under the
ammunitioning hatch, ready for
the hoist deckwards. In the
small-arms magazine more men
worked on the boxes of 20 mm.
shells, the long brass projectiles
gleaming dully in the electric-
light.
As always, the aircr.ift-
direction-room was operating,
though now the only marks on
the main air-display plot were
crosses representing the two air-
borne Furies of the combat air
patrol, orbiting round the mother
ship in a slow, wide circle.
It was in the briefing-room, hot
and sweat-smelling, that the main
purpose of Hawk’s speed, the
men in her magazines, the main-
tenance crews in her hangar, was
revealed.
The briefing-officer waited till
the last pilot was seated, then
levered himself up from the
table before the blackboard.
He was a tubby, normally
genial officer, with the quick eyes
of a flier and the tanned face of
a seaman. Now he was serious.
The pilots waited, shifting rest-
lessly on the stiff cushions,
“You’re wondering what all the
panic’s about,” he began, his
voice concise and definite, as
though he bit off every word.
“This is it. The enemy has
started a heavy push. In from
the east coast.”
His pointer whispered over a
large-scale map beside the black-
board.
“You’ll be briefed in normal
detail later. Our blokes need
everything they can get. The
Americans have thrown in
Sabres, and the MiG’s are mix-
ing it willingly. The Australian
Double - Seven Squadron of
Meteors are in it, too. All hands,
in fact. We’re hoping to get in
position for flying-off at first
light in the morning.”
He paused, and looked round
the ranks of tense faces.
“We hope that the MiG’s will
be fully occupied with their own
Sabre problem. Anyhow, Fire-
flies, with Fury escort, will bomb
and rocket in close support of
our troops. You will be unload-
ing very close to the bomb-line.
I must stress the importance of
exact identification of targets
before bombing. Well, that
about sews it up. Any
questions?”
Swan’s Number Three, a lanky
youth who had taken over the
Fury squadron, as long as Swan
was short, spoke.
“What are the chances of the
MiG’s mixing it with us?”
The briefing-officer tapped one
palm with his pointer.
“That, Marjason, is in the lap
of the Yanks. Quite a fair
chance, I’d say. This is one of
the few times they’ve given active
support to their ground pushes.
You’d better rely on your
prayers, and your identification
know-how.”
He waited a moment, then laid
his stick on the table.
“That’s all. Final briefing at
0400.”
Sherwood waited, talking to
the met. officer, both scanning
the information chalked on the
left edge of the blackboard.
“Looks all right,” he grunted.
The briefing-officer crossed to
them. “By the way, Dick,” he
said. “There’s a sub. of ours in
that area.”
The Strike Leader nodded.
“About the only damned thing
a man’s sure of, eh? One of
ours.” He grinned suddenly at a
memory. “Wonder if it’s my
sub.?”
They all turned at a voice
from the door.
“No doubt you hope you won’t
have to find out, Sherwood?”
Another memory returned to
Sherwood, though with it went
his grin. He looked at Baumer,
outwardly casual,
“That’s right, sir,” he said,
and walked past him to the door.
Baumer broke the awkward
silence.
“Let’s have a look at the
weather,” he said to die met.
officer.
Sherwood met Hap outside the
smoke-room. He walked in with
him, and idly picked up an old
magazine.
Turning the pages, bending
over the low table, he saw Hap
sink on a settee, pulling out the
inevitable gum. For a moment
the Strike Leader debated
whether he would tell Hap about
Baumer, and what he had told
him in his cabin. Though
Baumer had astonished liim then,
he had just proved, with his
sneering remark, that his feelings
were still normal in their hatred.
Sherwood felt, keenly, the need
to share his worry. Then an
innate sense of loyalty, not to
Baumer, but to his senior rank,
and his race, halted him.
He looked at the gum-chewing
Yank, lounging back on the
settee, a quizzical grin on his
spare, tanned face.
“Well, Hap, you prover of the
perpetual-motion theory, I’ll get
that blasted paper-work done
after all. Eh?”
“Very sorry I can’t give you
a hand, chum,” Hap grinned,
chewing vigorously. “But me
bein’ merely a whirligigger”
Sherwood dropped h i s
magazine, stretched himself, and
“Sherwood pulled up dead, his hand clutching the curtain. Baumer was in his cabin, slumped forward on his desk, his right
hand with the pistol resting in the spreading pool of ink from the knocked-over bottle. The stain spread slowly along his
sleeve as the ship rolled.”
left for the stuffy confines of his
cabin.
He worked diligently, deliber-
ately, so that his mind would not
revert to a subject which, con
sidering what was before him
tomorrow, he could ill afford to
ponder.
Finally, his work finished, he
leaned back, feeling for
cigarettes. At once he remem-
bered Baumer smoking in the
cabin, nervously puffing. He
grimaced with annoyance, and
then thought of another diver-
sion. He poked his head out and
called to a passing steward.
“Ask Lieutenant Marjason to
speak to me, please.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” answered the
steward.
All through the hot afternoon
Hawk nosed on at speed, her ram
of a stem dividing the oncoming
waves info twin upleaping arcs
of green turned suddenly white,
smashing the watery obstructing
ridges as she dipped into wreaths
of futile foam, laying the mark
of her inexorable passage in a
long, horizon-reaching sword of
lacy white astern.
With the sun slipping over the
edge of the world to port, long
fingers of light skyraking across
the clouds, the combat air patrol
was called in, thumping down in
a rushing slither of protesting
wheels and taufiy-drawn arrester-
wires.
Shortly, with dusk closing in,
the carrier’s flight-deck quietened
after the bustle of striking down
the fighters. She pushed on,
darkened and purposeful, her
radar eyes in constant use, con-
tinually swinging, se: rching tire-
lessly across the dark, white-
flashed sea, out towards the
distant hills of eastern Korea to
port.
Over theie it was quiet, too,
after the fury of the day, men
grim with tiredness and the threat
of danger still to come. Aboard
Hawk it was quiet, the flight-
deck deserted, swept clean by
the 35-knot wind rushing steadily
and sibilantly down i s yellow-
striped length. Inside her vast
innards, there was light, and,
here and there on the crowded
mess-decks, laughter. The pecu-
liarly needle-sharp wit and invec-
tive of the lower-deck finds its
most fertile ground in the face
of danger, threatened or real.
Baumer was quiet, in his own
resigned hell, sitting at his desk,
his left hand resting on the desk
edge, two of his fingers tapping
quietly on the drawer under-
neath. The fingers seemed to be
tapping for admission; the
drawer was kept locked by the
bar, the sane remnant, of his
mind.
At about three o'clock in the
quiet cool morning, the bosun’s-
mate on the bridge picked up a
pencilled sheet, filled with names,
and approached the officer of the
watch.
“Go below for slakes, sir?”
he asked.
“Yes, please.”
Whistling softly between
yawns, the bosun’s-mate clat-
tered his inconsiderate way down
the dark steel ladders, past the
open door of tie aircraft-
direction-room, shot a cursory
and disinterested look into its
warm dimness, and dropped
deeper into the ship’s innards.
He made for the junior pilots’
sleeping-quarters first —knowing
from experience that most of the
young flyers would need two
shakes anyway, and if he started
with them they would be at least
half-awake when he got back
again.
Each Fury and Firefly pilot
woke from whatever his dreams
had been on this momentous eve,
to see a disgustingly awake
figure, its face ghostly in the
light of the torch, telling him
with disinterested efficiency that
the time had come to meet his
fate.
The bosun’s - mate went
methodically from bunk to
bunk, stepping over shoes, suit-
cases and chrome-plated chairs
in the musty darkness, ticking off
each name as he woke the ownpr.
None of these young cows
gonner come at me with their
didn’t-get-a-shqke line.
Some sat up immediately, put-
ting legs over the edge of the
bunk, feeling sleepily for socks
and shoes. Others grunted, strove
to keep heavy eyelids open and
went back to their dreams. Their
average age was twenty.
The bosun’s-mate stepped over
the high coaming, whistling tune-
lessly again, and clattered down
the rivet-studded steel passage-
way, past the wardroom, on aft
towards the senior officers’
cabins.
The Strike Leader heard the
first “Are you awake, sir?” and
asked automatically: “What’s
the weather?”
“Fine and clear, sir.”
“Right.”
Sherwood sank back, stretched
and closed his eyes. Well aware
what that was the precursor to.
he at once sat up and rubbed his
eyes. Then, as he had done a
hundred times before, he raised
his hand to thump on Swan's
cabin bulkhead. He lowered his
fist slowly, and turned instead
to his door, stepping out into the
passage.
Marjason, the new Fury Escort
Leader, was at his washbasin.
He smiled at Sherwood.
“All right, eh?” the Strike
Leader grunted.
“Yes, thanks.”
“See you on deck.” v
Sherwood decided to shave,
even so early. He knew from
experience the freshening-up
value it had. With the brush
poised, he looked at himself in
the mirror. His face was deeply
lined, wrinkles radiating from the
corners of his eyes. It was a
long time since he had laughed.
Not so hot, boy, he thought.
Not so hot at all. You look
thirty-eight instead of twenty-
eight. And you’ll feel a bloody
sight worse after this little party’s
oyer. The thought of the
mission switched his mind to
technical details. He started
lathering.
The smoke-room was half-
filled with overalled pilots drink-
ing scalding tea when he stepped
in. This morning Sherwood
found he had no interest in their
talk, most of it light hearted,
some of it forcibly so. He col-
lected his tea and moved over
near the fireplace, under the
model of the ship on the mantel.
A peculiar foreboding filled him.
It made his stomach a little
queasy. Old Swannie used to
join him here. Then they were
alert, quietly eager for the thrill
of the hunt, the feeling of
exultant superiority; plum-
meting at 400 knots on to a
crawling train or running troops;
seeing their rockets and tracer
reaching out with inescapable
violence. That was at the begin-
ning of their tour of duty. Now
they—or he —was close to its
end. All hands knew now that
if the present advancing danger
could be bombed and rocketed
to a halt. Hawk would return to
Kure, to reprovision and turn
over to her relief.
Young Ventner, too, had
sometimes joined them, entitled
by virtue of his taking over the
strike aircraft if Sherwood
should become unserviceable.
Thomas, Morgan, Riley—this
morning he remembered them
all. Some mercifully dead as
soon as the aircraft struck, know-
ing nothing of their subsequent
cremation. Others resting, gain-
ing so young the Rest that shall
hunger no more, neither thirst
any more —their eyes and mouths
filled with the brown sea-sand,
down in the quiet deeps of the
Yellow Sea.
And Baumer . . . Sherwood
drained his cup, his stomach
turning at the recurrence of his
old worry. He made a grimace of
distaste and walked out towards
the briefing-room.
An hour later Hawk was feel-
ing for the wind, her great square
nose sniffing backward and for-
ward over the troughs of
tumbling brine. To starb’d, a
pale diffusion spread upwards,
streamers of warning to the
dying night of the fires below,
faintly relieving the shadow of
the night that lay upon the ship.
Gradually her lines formed from


Elements of an Industry , . ,
No. 26 of a
X
OXYGEN is the element that occurs most abundantly
in nature. One-fifth of the air consists of oxygen, and without it
life could not exist. It is oxygen which causes iron to rust and
enables a fire to burn. Discovered in 1774 by Joseph Priestley,
and independently by the Swede, William Scheele, oxygen was so
named because it was at first believed to be an acid-former. Pure
oxygen is produced commercially by liquefying air and then
separating the oxygen by distillation. Stored in cylinders, the gas
is used in welding and steel-making, as well as to aid breathing
in high-flying aircraft and for medical purposes. The importance
of oxygen to the chemical industry lies in the fact that substances
burn in it to form oxides. Without burning there would be no
industrial power, and very little chemical manufacturing would be
possible. The oxides enter into almost every phase of chemical
manufacture. Sulphur burnt in atmospheric oxygen forms sulphur
dioxide, the first step in producing sulphuric acid; whilst nitric
acid is made by combining oxygen and ammonia. Combined with
carbon, oxygen forms carbon dioxide which in its solid form is
important as an industrial raw material and as a refrigerant.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
f
1.-508-4602
the dimness, and the brief flash-
ing of the crowded waves became
steadily-visible, serried ranks of
foaming White, advancing,
toppling, receding down the
back-slope of the wave in lacy
veils, the whole vast grey
expanse rolling endlessly on.
The Strike Leader stepped out
on to the flight-deck, Marjason
behind him. They walked to-
gether towards the ranged air-
craft, and halted beside Mar-
jason’s Fury, a silent menace in
her grinning cannon and
rocketed wings.
Sherwood looked quizzically
at his new Escort Leader. He
missed the easy familiarity of
Swan’s friendship and equal
rank. But, he thought, suddenly
grim, that’s not what’s wanted
here. Marjason is a good man,
and he leads a good team.
“Well,” said Sherwood, “I’ve
given you the guts of it. There’s
nothing else —except keep a
sharp eye lifting for those
MiG’s. Personally, I think
they’ll be further back.”
“Personally, I hope so,”
grinned the rangy youth.
“You’re not alone in that!”
supplemented Sherwood. “I’ve
never tackled ’em in old Fanny,
and neither she nor I are keen
to start now.” He turned towards
his ship, ranged further back
near the stern. “Happy landing,”
he grinned, “as they say in the
pictures.”
“Ditto,” answered the Escort
Leader.
The formerly quiet flight-deck
was still silent, though now with
the quietness of wordless, highly-
trained efficiency. Along the cat-
walks. just below the deck edge,
their ranging job done, waited
the aircraft - handlers. The
aerials lowered silently to the
horizontal position, their long
curved necks looking like the
spaced fingers of a giant hand
dangled carelessly over the side.
Round the catapult mechanism
worked the stokers; round the
island structure waited the fire-
party, comfortingly, efficiently
grotesque in their heavy suits.
Sherwood’s pilot’s-mate was
standing-by the Strike Leader’s
aircraft. “All set, sir,” he
reported briskly, Sherwood
nodded, noting Blake already in
his rear compartment busy with
his straps. His pilot’s-mate,
whose relation to the aircraft
had something of the same pro-
prietary interest of a hen with
her chicks, was a nut-brown
Cockney intensely jealous of his
charge—the senior flying pilot in
the ship. Sherwood knew this,
and never failed to inwardly grin
at the thought of his own fathom
or so of length being fussed over
by a bow-legged midget who
could hardly look over the wing.
He stretched upwards, pressed
in the spring-loaded cover of the
hand-grip, pulled the step down
with his right foot and swung
lithely up on to the wing root.
The pilot’s-mate followed him,
helping him in the cockpit with
his straps and parachute harness,
the parachute and collapsible
dinghy forming his seat. While
Sherwood strapped his headset,
the little Cockney gave a final
and needless wipe to the rear-
vision mirror, grinned encourag-
ingly in his chief’s face and
jumped down.
As he settled himself, Sher-
wood cast an automatic look
round the cramped cockpit; at
the crowded black-and-white
dials, the signal pistol in its socket
near his right foot, the safety-
lever in position on the dual gun
and bomb buttons, one above the
other on the top left-hand corner
of his control-column.
He worked rudder and
ailerons, noted the gyro bomb-
sight lens was clean, and spoke
into his mouthpiece, his finger
pressing the activating teat on
his column.
“Twenty-two flight, this is
Twenty-two Leader. Tell off.
Over.”
Back, in rotation, came the
reports from his pilots, checking
the efficiency of their R/T.
“Twenty-two Two loud and
clear. Over.” “Twenty - two
Three loud and clear. Over.”
When Sherwood had heard the
lot, he answered, “Roger.
Twenty-two flight loud and clear.
Out.”
That done, he waited. Soon it
came, crackling across the slowly
heaving flight-deck. "Startup!”
With the order Hawk’s quiet
deck woke to bellowing sound.
Plumes of grey smoke broke
from exhausts, to be shredded
instantly in the slipstreams of a
score of spinning propellers.
Each pilot rewed-up, his charge
shuddering against brakes and
chocks.
“Bore it up ’em, boys,” mut-
tered a deck-handler, squinting
his eyes against the slap of the
rushing wind.
“An’ make it snappy,” grinned
another. “I wanna get home to
Mumma.”
“Can’t wait, eh, Spike?” said
the first handler.
“There they go!” shouted
Spike.
Marjason’s Fury eased for-
ward to the first director, then
on up the cleared deck, over the
flat arrester-wires, to the next.
Within a few minutes the Fury
squadron was squirted off, climb-
ing for height, their backs, seen
from the ship, dark grey against
the blue sky.
All except one.
“Hello, what's up with
Freda?” asked Spike of the team
in general. “There goes an elec-
trical boy.”
Tiger bent and peered under
the wings of the remaining Fire-
flies.
“Rockets,” he summed-up.
“Somepin wrong with the firin’
gear. Ah, well, that’s one we’ll
get struck down out of the bloody
way.”
Staring out and down through
his open cockpit at the first
director, Sherwood moved his
throttle. The Firefly growled,
and nosed ahead, past the faulty
Fury, up to the catapult guiding-
lines.
Bogied on the countersunk
rails, the strong wire sling fast
on the projection which jutted
from her belly like a hooked
beak, the Strike Leader looked
at the flight-deck officer, standing
ahead and to his right, back to
the bow, his trousers whipping
in the wind.
The green flag waved. Sher-
wood boosted her up. The Fire-
fly gave tongue in a blast of
power, straining and shuddering.
Sherwood raised his hand,
thumb up; and instantly jerked
it down, to clutch his right elbow
across his belly, buttressing the
arm controlling the stick, keep-
ing it pressed slightly forward.
He forced his head back against
the rest behind him. In his
cockpit Blake was crouched
forward, both hands clasped over
his head, pulling it down on to
his chest, as though expecting a
blow —which he was.
The next instant it came, a
belt of power which flung the
aircraft violently forward. Had
his stick been in the neutral posi-
tion, the Firefly would have been
shot skyward in an acute climb,
to stall and fall at the top.
As it was, she boosted off
almost level with the deck, dipped
a little towards the sea, then
climbed powerfully into the
peaceful blue of the early-
morning sky.
The squadron formed-up in
“finger” formation, stepped back
from the leader, and speared in
an undeviating line for the coast.
Omnisciently, the direction-
room tracked them, the radar
sets’ electronic energy shafting
out and beating back from the
sleek black-and-white-marked
aircraft, Hawk's mothering
fingers.
Baumer waited in the direc-
tion-room with the operations
officer, a phlegmatic officer who
had never been known to smile,
and who, normally reticent, was
completely wordless now, with
the target area coming up fast.
Both men were with the strike
aircraft, their experience pictur-
ing the scene in perfect detail.
Commander air looked at his
watch, and glanced at ops. The
other nodded. In their minds
they could hear Sherwood’s
“Battle formation” to his flock.
Then, “Breaking off now. Go,
go.”
Time dragged on. It was close
in the direction-room, and quiet,
the only sound an occasional
report or order, and a high-
powered electronic hum. Baumer
smoked restlessly. Ops. stared
noncommittally at the main air-
display plot, his pendulous lower
lip thrust out, his fingers end-
lessly stroking the loose skin of
his throat. Both officers were
waiting for the same thing.
Baumer was surprised, when
the report came, at the easiness
with which he made his decision.
He realised, confusedly at the
back of his mind, that it was the
one chance he had been waiting
for. But there was no confusion
in his resultant action.
He crossed to ops. Speaking
quickly, as though afraid hesita-
tion could weaken his resolve, he
put his proposition.
The operations officer looked
at him. Just looked at him.
Plainer than any words, that
look said: “Now I’ve heard
everything! Have you lost your
blasted wits! This is an aircraft-
carrier, not a trip-round-the-bay-
for-a-pound outfit.”
Stung by his reception, accen-
tuated by the realisation of its
justification, Baumer said
angrily: “Well?”
The operations officer turned
his head from the plot a
mbment. He spoke concisely.
“I’ve got enough on my mind,
Baumer, without your bloody
nonsense.”
Baumer stared at him a second
more. There was a half-crazy
look in his eyes. He wheeled
abruptly and strode out of the
room, thumping his thigh unfeel-
ingly in the dark against a radar
set.
The captain was reading the
signal when Baumer reached
him. His face was worried, the
black brows drawn into a bunch
of converging lines between his
eyes. He turned sharply at
Baumer’s presence beside him.
“Yes? What is it?”
Baumer hesitated. Before this
man, he appreciated to the full
the irregularity of what he had
to propose. The captain was
waiting, irritation growing in his
face. Baumer’s words came in a
rush.
“They’re in trouble, sir—stiff
trouble. Those MiG’s will tear
them apart. They’ll need all the
help they can get. I’d like to
take-off.”
“What!” The captain looked
incredulously at him. “Damn it
all, man—you’re commander air.
Your place is in the ship—not
gallivanting round in a fighter.
And what use could one extra
aircraft be?” He stopped sud-
denly, irritatingly aware that he
was stating, to a senior officer,
the obvious.
Baumer saw the navigator turn
away to hide the look on his face.
It made him savagely careless.
“I know, sir,” he pressed, lean-
ing forward in his vehemence.
“But Sherwood’s out there ...”
He was stopped by the look in
the captain’s face—a look of
sudden understanding. By God
—so that’s it! Something’s hap-
pened, something which makes
this crazy fool want to save —
Sherwood! This could be the
answer to my problem. If it
comes off, those two will be
bosom friends. His thoughts
raced on, judging, deciding. He
made up his mind. And in so
doing the captain made one of
the few mistakes of his career.
But he could not be expected to
know that.
He looked at Baumer. “Very
commendable, Baumer. I hadn’t
realised why But there’s no
aircraft available. We must have
the combat air-patrol up. You
know that.”
Baumer was exultant.
“Yes, sir. That unserviceable
Fury has only rocket trouble.
Nothing wrong with her cannon.
And that’s all I’ll need now.”
The captain answered briefly.
“Take off.”
“What the hell,” said Spike,
“is old Wings up to?”
His mates followed his gaze,
to where Baumer came running
from the island door, overalled,
Mae West over his shoulders,
strapping his helmet as he ran.
“Strike a light!” answered
Tiger. “The old gawk’s gonner
fly-off that u.s. Fury.”
Unmindful of the surprise his
sudden advent had caused among
the elite, Baumer gestured
sharply to a couple of directors
lounging near the pompom plat-
form. Understanding at once,
they ran to take up position.
Baumer settled himself swiftly,
sniffing the memory-jolting smell
of the cockpit. He did not bother
with a cockpit check —that had
been done. The Fury, snarling
impatiently, was moving forward
before the directors had got in
line. Hastily they conned him up
to the catapult. As they secured
him to the bogie, Baumer felt a
sudden qualm, a sick twisting in
his guts. He had not forgotten
the last time he had been squirted
off from this catapult.
Then he had no time for
further memories of that shud-
dering day. The flight-deck
officer was waving his flag. The
tension in his stomach rose with
the roaring revs of the fighter.
The consciousness of the power
he was deliberately feeding into
its greedy cylinders shocked his
unready mind. He had barely
time to clutch his stick arm when
his head flung forward with a
jolt, and he was off.
Baumer’s face was set in a
twisted mask as he flew, straight
for the coast. He had been
present at the briefing, and knew
as much as those earlier pilots,
now in the fight of their lives
with Communist MIG fighters.
He stared hypnotically at his
instruments, at the enamelled
plain unrolling below, anything
to stop his sick brain from
thinking, from screaming:
FOOL! Go back! Get to hell
down out of this!
Then he was over the coast,
banking steeply in over the
harbor-mouth, up the river.
Suddenly, he saw below him the
thick white and brown smoke
of ground-battle. This was where
Sherwood would have said
“Breaking off now. Go, go.”
Baumer saw something else.
A whirling series of black
streaks, diving, clawing for
height, laced about with tracer.
And, with a sudden, intense
shock of fear that dried his
mouth behind its oxygen and
microphone set, four strange-
bodied aircraft, above him and
to starb’d, shining aircraft with
squat fuselages, swept-back
wings and red noses, red tails and
red stars on their wings. Com-
munist MIG 15’s, among the
(i Continued on page 27)


Every Day In so many
ways
CI®HC serves
Australia
/ v\
WMil
“Cyclone” Machine Guards give absolute
protection strong, neat, safe.
:s;;<
m
mm
:-■ .;
mm
-
Pi
mrmi
m
imM
ssss*
mm.
mm&
% $ • I i
m
ty
Wm
wm
mMwMMi
m
wm
mm
wmm
m
mmlm
m
mmm
mmM
■■■•■
MwMm
mzs
■ :-
■H
mmMfm
m
mm
■
ss
ssS&SSsi
Fine example of “Cyclone” factory
fencing designed, supplied and erected
to protect the new factory of Gilbert
and Barker Manufacturing Company
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd. at Thornbury, Victoria.
FOR OVER 50 YEARS FAMOUS FOR QUALITY
All over Australia ... on farms and in homes and
factories . . . you’ll find “Cyclone” products per-
forming endless duties faithfully and well. More
than fifty years have passed since the Cyclone Co.
first began making farm gates. Since that time,
mounting demand has added many products to the
list. To-day it includes fencing, playground equip-
ment, machinery guards, screenwire . . . even pre-
fabricated building frames. Instead of the simple
“Cyclone” plant of half-a-century ago, there are now
“Cyclone” factories in every mainland State. All
adhere strictly to “Cyclone” standards of design,
materials and workmanship. The result is a vast
output of products of enduring quality and modest
price, obtainable throughout Australia.
“Cyclone” products are made only by
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD .
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
“Cyclone” Prefabricated Frames for
economical permanent or temporary
buildings.
l~ =
jUw
The genuine “Cyclone” Field Gate of
famous “Red Tag” quality.
“Cyclone” Ringlock Farm Fence provides
ease and economy of erection.
s
SI!
mim
lining
a
' S'*/'*
‘Cyclone” Wrought Iron Doors lend
beauty and distinction.
■
‘Cyclone” Front Fences and Gates add
value and protection.
C176/7Q/S3


Days of Danger, Nights of Waking
Changi Symposium
By DAVID GRIFFIN
December 8, mi: ai
7.30 this morning I was
shaving and looking at
an agreeable panorama
of palms with high-peaked
mountains beyond.
A radio was going somewhere,
and presently I heard an excited
shout, “It’s on, boys! They’ve
bombed Singapore.”
At first I didn’t take much
notice, until everyone took up
the cry. So I called: “Have they
bombed Singapore ? ”
One of the men shouted back
“Fair go. What do you think
we are saying it for?”
My shaving went fast and
dangerously after that, as details
started coming in. The Japs had
come, right enough, and, as I
wiped my chin, were at that
moment not many miles distant
The C.O. was at the mess mak-
ing rather a portentous speech.
After he had gone the boy served
eggs-and-bacon. We did not feel
like it, sort of. So we drank
whisky. The combined mess was
splitting up, and this was the
most equitable method of distri-
buting the surplus assets.
* * ♦
New Year’s Day, 1942: We
will hang on here until the time
comes for the politicians to call
the whole thing off. We have
now been given back to the
A.I.F. —we have been some time
with the British.
At first that caused a lot of
disappointment, as it meant re-
treating to the Australian sector.
Personally I am glad that at last
we are A.I.F. men who will be
working with our fellow-country-
men in the big job ahead. We
do a trip every day equivalent
to a drive from Sydney to
Bathurst and back and often
longer. Practically no sleep, and
the effect of that is to draw you
closer to Macbeth, who also
suffered in this way.
The Allies appear to be strik-
ing back a bit now, and the Japs
are not having everything their
own way. The few prisoners
taken have been dressed in shorts
and shirts, with nothing on their
feet.
It is exceedingly difficult from
such close range to get any true
idea of how the war is going,
and, accordingly, a forecast
would be useless. Up to now
the Japs seem to be fighting with
some degree of fairness —say
they will respect the Red Cross,
but of course that Nazi idea of
having a go at civilians is getting
well tried out. The Japanese
planes look impressive flying in
their rigid formations.
“The fighters,” said one of
our chaps, “are the prettiest
things I’ve seen.”
For myself, I would find a
squadron of Spitfires more
attractive.
Yesterday, on rounding a bend
I came on to a cackle of colonels
and a boggle of brigadiers
swarming round General
Percival, whose car had broken
its axle. There was a great to-
do when this lowly Australian
proffered a mechanic and a
spanner. It was soon fixed, and
the war was able to progress.
* * *
February 2 : Well, January has
gone! A few days ago we
camped in the Socfin red-palm
oil-estate, acres of palms shut-
ting out the sky and making dark
tunnels, ideal for cover. We
chose a small cottage. A mouth-
organ was produced and every-
body who did not collapse in
sleep sang. At midnight we were
ordered out. As we started to
move I was handed a bundle of
mail, but was too busy to read.
We were on another stage of the
big retreat.
It was an impressive affair.
Hundreds of vehicles were
lumbering along, dhd I tried to
dodge them on my cycle minus
its headlight. The road was
gouged with bombs and the going
rough. We travelled till dawn,
and were bombed again. I dived
into the nearest trench and
seized the opportunity of reading
my mail.
In the afternoon the Don R.
[dispatch-rider] and myself were
riding down a road which has
been a very hot spot. Presently
a bomber appeared, a great big
fellow flying ridiculously low.
On went the brakes, and we made
for the woods. My dive took
me into a stinking native rubbish-
dump.
Then came the first bomb with
a crack and a thud. More fol-
lowed, and the bomber, looking
for all the world like the grey-
nurse shark at the Zoo, made
off. In a couple of minutes he
turned and came back straight
towards us. This time I went
under a log. The bomber opened
up fortissimo with his guns.
Each shot fired I distinctly felt
piercing my back and tearing out
my stomach. I must have been
quite riddled with bullets when it
was all over.
I hopped out from my log,
trying to look as though I had
never been there, and took stock.
Indian soldiers popped up from
everywhere, and I doled out
cigarettes to these dusky gentle-
men of whose existence I was
totally unaware a minute before.
Our artillery and infantry have
been magnificent, but without air-
support they have a rotten time.
Charles is in the centre of
it, but knowing him I feel certain
that he will come through it all
right.
The complete absence of drink
is a major worry. I would give
dollars for a beer or a cordial.
Let me entreat you not to worry.
We will all be home again some-
time, no matter what happens in
the interval. In fact, I can feel
the gangplank under my feet
and hear your cheery welcome.
The situation on the Malay
Peninsula, even to those whose
knowledge of Hactics was nil,
obviously could scarcely have
been worse. The successful
attack at Gemas raised hopes, but
these were soon dashed by the
news of the debacle at Muar,
where the 19th and 29th
battalions were surrounded and
hopelessly outnumbered.
We went up towards Muar to
try and give some help to those
who had managed to get out. We
were clearing wounded from a
tent, a very temporary A.D.S.,
and it was raining. In the half-
light of the petrol-lamps the long
silver water drops flashed for an
instant before vanishing into the
surrounding blackness. The
ground was awash with rivulets.
Elsewhere the rubber-leaves were
trampled into a thick mush. I
asked nearly everyone if they
had news of . Eventually I
struck some chap from his
company who told me that we
would not be seeing old Charles
any more. It made me feel
terribly lonely all of a sudden.
Dick —— was there, looking
very knocked about, I don’t
think he saw me. It was a most
melancholy night.
It was decided to abandon the
peninsula in favor of a defence
of the island of Singapore. The
This symposium-article, written by a soldier who spent most
of his war-time in Changi camp, might have been written by
a composite of the captive Eighth Division.
Made up of letters and other personal records, dating from
December 8, 1941, to the Singapore surrender on February 15,
1942, and the bombing of Darwin four days later, through the
surrender-aftermath to the end, it tells of the little realities of
war as experienced by an individual, and owes much of its
at-once stirring and most moving realism to the fact that each
of its sections was written on the spot, contemporaneously
with events.
last British troops marched over
to the accompaniment of a pipe-
band, the causeway was blown
up, and the divisions took up
positions for the defence of
Singapore.
* * *
February 8: Well, it is
just a week today since we be-
came, so to speak, self-contained.
The expected storm is, I should
think, about to break. The big
guns are firing across the Straits
of Johore and the planes are
coming over, ever so high, to
drop bombs. Unless they
happen to fall near you, one
takes very little notice of bomb-
ings. When they do, you hang
on to yourself until it is all over,
provided there is something of
yourself to hang on to, and then
light a cigarette.
* * ♦
II
Base Hospital:
February, 1942
"trOLLYWOOD cameramen
would pay thousands for this
scene. The ward is in a Roman
Catholic chapel. Gothic columns,
yellow glassed windows and
elaborate Byzantine lighting
arrangements. You can’t see the
floor, which is tiled, because of
the beds. They are almost
touching.
The nurses, as they hurry up
and down the narrow avenues,
brush the beds with their starched
dresses. They are so brisk, so
businesslike, sympathetic but
impersonal. When the sirens go
they perch steel-helmets over
their veils and call out “Keep
away from the windows, boys.”
One of them is very big and
very motherly. She tries very
hard to be severe, but her eyes
betray her with their twinkling.
“Oh, do keep away from the
windows! ” she says at last. “You
know it’s dangerous.” Then she
hurries over to a window and
has a peep herself,
« • • •
Some of the raids are worth
looking at, from this distance,
provided you don’t let yourself
think of what it all means. There
are men somewhere under those
bombs, but you try and not let
yourself think of that. Each
morning squadrons of Japanese
planes, 27 or 54, fly high over
the city. When the bombs drop
there is a great rolling rumble
and the ground shakes.
The most spectacular raid hap-
pened a few days ago, when the
oil-storage tanks were hit. The
smoke rose up like a gigantic
cumulus cloud with a thin grey
edge. It looked stationary and
solid. You could not help think-
ing of that bit in On Our Selec-
tion when the fire burns the
cockatoo-fencing and Dave asks
Dad if he doesn’t think it a fine
sight.
Fine sight it was, rising from
the funeral pyre of all our hopes
and aspirations. The end is
coming ; you can feel it.
There was an air of strain in
the ward this morning. The
nurses arrived as usual, but their
joking was hard and forced.
Everyone was restive, and the
young chap who always lay on
his stomach was crying terribly
He made us all nervy. The man
beside me started muttering
curses at him.
After lunch we heard why the
nurses had been strange. They
were all going home. They came
in to say good-bye. All our
friends, our only friends really.
The little South Australian girl
came, then Nurse Enema and
Tiny Mouse. Mouse has her veil
off, and I see with astonishment
that she has grey hair and is quite
old. They go to each bed and
shake hands. We give them
letters to post when they get to
Sydney. It is awful, because the
nurses are crying now. Just like
leaving home and going to the
war all over again. There have
been battles with matron. The
girls almost refuse to go.
“This is what we came for,”
Mouse says to me ; “to look after
the boys.”
She does not cry until she gets
to the door, and then I see her
crumple up and run out quickly.
The orderlies have taken over.
They try their best, but they have
not the feminine touch. The
doctors work about twenty hours
a day. Wonderful people. The
hospital keeps running somehow.
The young chap on his stomach
is in dreadful pain. They give
him plenty of morphia. “His
wound is something awful,” my
orderly has just told me. “You
could put two fists into his back.”
The nights are the worst.
When the sun sets the blinds are
pulled down and we spend the
rest of the time gasping for air.
The smell of sweat and the cloy-
ing stink of gangrene settles over
everything. In vain we smoke
cigarettes. But that smell over-
powers all others. We manage
to sleep in spite of the heat and
the roar of the guns.
Early this morning the young
chap suddenly yelled out in a
wild voice that went right
through you: “Christ, the pain—
I tell you I can’t stand it any
more.” About ten minutes after-
wards an orderly took him a cup
of milk. He was still lying on
his face, but this time he was
dead.
The colonel has just called a
muster-parade of the hospital
staff. What he has to say does
not take long. Our troops have
withdrawn to a narrow perimeter
surrounding Singapore. We are
outside if, and the Japs aro
expected at any moment. There
is to be no panic. When they
come we are to treat them with
respect. Supplies are now cut
off, so food goes down to two
small meals a day. We lie on
our beds and wait.
Most of us have been burning
all our letters and papers. I can’t
throw them all away. Not them
all. So X keep J.’s photograph
and the one of Mum and a little
snap of the Mountains, and then,
right at the end, I keep the last
letter from J. so that I won’t
forget her writing and funny
spelling.
• • • •
There is a lot of speculation
about the future. Will they
machine-gun the lot of us? They
will certainly take all the beds
and so on. Some of the walking
patients are planning an escape
by sampan. It is tremendously
secret, so, of course, everyone
knows about it. Even if I could
walk I don’t think my courage
would be up to trying it.
• • • •
We are keeping our spirits up
with optimistic talk. “They won’t
leave us here.” “There will prob-
ably be a break-through along
the Katong-road and they will
pull us out.” “There are two
hospital ships in the harbor ready
for the wounded,” . But that big
tower of smoke is out there like
the genii in the Arabian Nights,
and there does not seem much
chance of coaxing it back into its
bottle.
The noise from Singapore is
deafening. Warfare for the
soldier is largely a question o£
noise. One sort is “ours” ; the
other sort “theirs.” We hear
them all.
The Jap planes have a distinc-
tive note, a drone with a rise and
fall, high-pitched but heavy. Our
planes probably make a noise,
too, but we don’t hear them.
A few nights ago we all woke
up in the midst of a shattering
boom which rocked the building.
My first impression was that the
moon had resigned its satellite-
ship and returned to earth. They
told us later that the magazines
at Changi had been blown by the
sappers as our troops pulled out.
The most distressing noises come
from the ack-ack. The big
fellows are not so bad, but the
little Bofors fire with a crack-
ing snap which makes the flesh
tug at your stitches.
It is Sunday. We are reminded
of it by one of the padres, who
comes in with a white garment
flung over his shirt and shorts.
He carries a suitcase and seems
to be setting up some com-
munion things. We talk about
books occasionally.
Singapore is quite hidden by
smoke. We are lucky not to be
there.
Well, if has happened. All
over. I should say about six
o’clock this evening. And the
silly thing was that none of us
really realised what had hap-
pened. The noise got worse all
day until it was practically con-
tinuous. We smoked cigarettes
one after the other and tried to
think of anything rather than the
war.
Then, before we were aware
of it, everything seemed very
still. It was puzzling. In a
quarter of an hour or so a man
with horribly broken legs trussed
up in a contraption of ropes and
pulleys called out: “The bloody
guns have stopped, boys!”
Then we knew. It was quiet-
quiet for the first time for weeks.
The Singapore show is finished.
An orderly comes in and lets
up all the blinds, then turns on
all the electric-lights. We blink
at them. Can lights have ever
been as bright before? Scores
of voices called out, “Is she all
over, mate?” “What’s the idea
of the lights?” A shellshocked
man without a leg screams out
“Put down those bloody blinds! ”
Conversation which has been
lagging all day bursts out. We
have a talk. Regrets, specula-
tions, indignation and relief. If
(Continued on page 30)


V
o
\ n (i n i nr\v/o
I
o
7
F W7/.
as
HH
□
B
o 0
A GOOD WHISKY
HOST HAVE
STYLE
and in McCallum’s,
knowledgeable men always
find that perfection of style
brought about by the experienced
blending of grain and malt whiskies.
the
name
Colliim
0)
the
whisky
tsss
MC 156/6.2
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS
SPORTING NOTIONS
Birdwood is set the task of
equalling the record of five
other horses that have won the
Oakleigh Plate and the New-
market Handicap in the same
season —last of them Cromwell,
two years ago. The Oakleigh
dates back to 1884, while the
first Newmarket was run 10
years earlier. Birdwood has
shown marked and rapid im-
provement as a sprinter and now
is in the first flight.
Aurie’s Star, one of the five
to land the Melbourne autumn
double, held the Oakleigh
record-time, 1.41, for a few
years, but San Domenico ran
1.41 in 1949. Birdwood last
Saturday further reduced the
time to 1.4, a brilliant display of
galloping. Aurie’s Star was a
great sprinter. He won nearly
£14,000 in stakes and still holds
the Australian time-record for
six furlongs, 1.81, made at
Flemington in September, 1940.
In Saturday’s Oakleigh Bird-
wood easily defeated Sir
Isfahan and Coulper ; he started
at 5 to 2. His form in Sydney
had been high-class, and despite
his penalty for the Newmarket
he already is the most popular
candidate for the straight six.
His presence should help to
keep numbers down.
Sydney stables are expected
to be represented in this Satur-
day’s Caulfield Futurity Stakes
(£4000), and they could record
a hat-trick, because Bob Cherry
(trainer M. McCarten) won the
race last season and San
Domenico (W. J. Kearns) in
1952. Fastest time for the race
over the seven furlongs, 1.24, is
held jointly by Attley (1947) and
Ajax (1940). Melbourne jockey
Bill Williamson has ridden three
of the last six winners of the
Futurity—Bob Cherry, San
Domenico and St. Razzle (1949).
Ridden by L. Lott, St. Razzle
also won the race in 1950.
Results over the years have
shown that the Futurity Stakes
is not the glorified handicap that
many imagine few horses
enjoying an allowance under the
complex conditions have been
successful. In fact, no “roughie’
has won it for years. In earlier
seasons English horses claiming
an allowance landed the money,
a couple of notable instances
being the wins of Sir Foote and
Lucknow. Sir Foote, raced by
the late “Baron” Brown, then
won the V.R.C. Newmarket and
a few weeks later the A.J.C. Don-
caster, so he must have been
something to bet on in the
Futurity with 6.10. Dating back
to 1898, only eight horses have
won the Futurity with an allow-
ance claim in their favor. Crack
performers on the winning-list
include Ajax (three wins), Phar
Lap, Eurythmic, Amounis,
Mollison, Gold Rod, Winooka,
High Caste and Bernborough.
Hydrogen, generally regarded
as a fair wager for the
Caulfield £2OOO race over 9i fur-
longs on Saturday, faded when
expected to be putting in his best
woik. It was a performance
much below him. Next run
should show whether or not his
latest defeats in Sydney and
Melbourne have represented just
a temporary lapse of form.
Carioca will not be a runner in
the Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
the V.R.C. meeting, and it will
be hard luck if Hydrogen isn’t
at his best to add to his already
huge stake-earnings.
Cromis, Melbourne’s best
three-year-old, in landing the St.
George Stakes at the Caulfield
meeting showed quick improve-
ment on his third to Flying Halo
and My Hero in the C. F. Orr
Stakes a week earlier. How-
ever, Cromis had won at his start
prior to the Orr Stakes, so there
didn’t appear to be much justifi-
cation for the outburst that
greeted his win.
Neville Sell wood, Sydney’s
leading horseman, was due to
leave yesterday (Tuesday) for
America with his wife and
Maurice and Mrs. McCarten.
They will be away about three
weeks or so, during which Sell-
wood is likely to have a few
rides on U.S. courses, one mount
being Deep River, on which he
won the A.J.C. Derby, At Can-
terbury on Saturday Sellwood
equalled the performance of Bill
Cook, Darby Munro and Jack
Thompson, who all had a last-
mount win before going abroad.
Though it would seem to be
something of a habit, few bene-
fited from Sellwood’s win on
Guinea, who had shown poor
form at two prior metropolitan
runs, finishing nearer last than
first. Guinea, a 12-to-l chance
for the Canterbury Welter, won
easily. Sellwood rode him hard
over the final furlong, taking no
chances of being caught.
When racing, Tuhitarata had
few, if any, his equal as a mud-
runner, and most of his progeny
also have found soft tracks to
their liking. One of his get,
Vaporata, won the Frank Under-
wood Cup at Canterbury Park
on Saturday, narrowly beating
Royal Forest, who came from
the rear of the field. Vaporata
had also won three starts earlier
“ Pom-poms are taboo here , Admiral !”
and had not been far away at
intervening outings. She is an
aged mare from Vapour Trail
by David, who also was good in
heavy going.
o • • •
A.J.C. committeeman Brian
Crowley might have a good colt
in Sound Barrier, who at his
first race-start won the colts’
and geldings’ division of
the Canterbury Two-year-old
Promotion Stakes on Saturday,
starting equal favorite. Crowley
bred the youngster, who is by
Confessor (imp.) from Kindly
Light by Kinderscout (imp.)
from Mellow Light by Melfort.
Trained at Randwick by
Maurice McCarten, Sound
Barrier had shown ability on
the training tracks and in a
barrier-trial. Flight was a grand
winner for the A.J.C. man.
An interesting runner in the
Canterbury Park Two-year-old
event for colts and geldings was
First One; having his second
race-start, he finished a creditable
third to Sound Barrier and
Assouan. Raced by his breeder,
R. S, Crosby, of Bossley Park
stud (N.S.W.), First One is by
Pegu (imp.), whose oldest
progeny a ,- e two-year-olds; few
of them have so far sported silk.
Pegu was imported to Australia
as a yearling, but started only
twice. He is a son of Rangoon
and Polette by Salmon Trout.
Betrothed, dam of First One,
is by Night Raid (imp.), sire of
Melbourne Cup winners Phar
Lap and Nightmarch, from
Engaged by Magpie (imp.). She
has thrown winners, including
Burncourt and Burn Son
Assouan appeared an unlucky
second in Sound Barrier’s race.
He was in a restive mood, was
slow from the starting gates, was
last in the first furlong, and then
was only narrowly beaten —a run
nobody missed.
Karendi ran third in the three-
horse Canterbury Flying to Gay
Vista and Nagpuni, at no stage
flattering supporters, who sent
him to the post a 10-to-9 fa\ orite.
The 8.12 on a heavy track was
against the brilliant Karendi;
Gay Vista had only 7.10, and N.
Sell wood saw to it that his two
opponents would carry their
poundage from the start. Gay
Vista had shown that he was
near top when he competed in
the Challenge Stakes, at one
stage leading by* many lengths.
The stable was confident, and
the only thing that surprised
trainer Leo O’Sullivan was the
generosity of the bookmakers,
who had Gay Vista outsider of
the trio.
>j •: • •
The Duke of Edinburgh Aus-
tralian Cup at the Royal-visit
meeting at Flemington on Satur-
day week could be won by a
moderate, as the best performers
will be running in the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes. An Australian
Cup prospect is Sunish, who won
the Bond Handicap (1£ mile)
at Caulfield on Saturday, carry-
ing 8.7. Sunish has shown con-
sistency, with three wins from
his last four starts. Starting
equal-favorite, he secured the
verdict in a photo-finish over
Royal Radiant, who also is in
the Australian Cup.
* * *
Before the Duke of Edinburgh,
who made a special point of
being there to see him run, John
Tandy won the Australian one-
mile championship at Sydney
Cricket Ground last Thursday.
Tandy ran a grand race, and his
time, 4min. 5.65ec., was excellent
considering the soft track, with
a head-wind on the home-stretch.
He had no real opposition, even
from the Finn Johansson, and
finished way in front of the rest.
The outstanding performer of
the meeting, however, was not
Tandy but Queensland sprinter
Hector Hogan, who won three
events, the 100yds., 220yds. and
the broad-jump and was a
member of Queensland’s winning
440yds. relay team. No Aus-
tralian athlete has done anything
comparable in recent years.
In winning the 100yds. for
the third successive time Hogan
clocked 9.55ec., which equals the
Australian record, held jointly
by himself and the Panama
runner Lloyd la Beach. Second
in the 100yds. and third in the
220 was the colorful Fijian Jo
Levula, first known to Rugby
parts of Australia as a strong-
running winger with the Fijian
Union team here last year.
N.S.W. won the Richard
Coombes Shield, awarded for
inter-State team supremacy. It
had seven wins to six each by
Victoria and Queensland.
Tandy ran in the half-mile only
to try to help Victoria in the
Richard Coombes contest. With
little heart for the race he came
well back in the field. Winner
was N.S.W. mile champion Jim
Bailey, who had come second
to Tandy in the mile; time,
Imin. 53.25ec. The 880 was run
on the second day, also a day of
rain, so Bailey’s effort was
meritorious. Second was Vic-
torian Ten Mcßae, who in Mel-
bourne recently beat Tandy at
the distance to make a new Aus-
tralian resident - record ol
Imin. 52.1 sec.
In the six-mile, run on the first
day, the winner, Alan Lawrence
(N.S.W.), ran the final 440yds.
in faster time (59sec.) than Tandy
took for any of his 440yds. in the
mile. Lawrence’s time for the
full distance (29min. 38.4 sec)
was not slow either. In the three-
mile he finished second to Vic-
torian Geoff Warren.
Victorian Olympic represen-
tatie Ken Doubleday won two
of the hurdles titles, the 120yds.
and 220yds. The other hurdles
event, 440yds., was won by an
18-year-old Tasmanian, David
Lean, who set a new Australian
resident-record (53sec.). Lean
is the first Tasmanian to win an
Australian title for over 40 years.
Besides Lean’s effort, only two
new records were made, both in
the field events. Jim Achurch
(Q.) threw the javelin 216 ft.
and Peter Hanlin (N.S.W.) won
the shot-put with 48ft.
Noteworthy, too, was Victorian
John Vernon’s winning of the
high-jump with a 6ft. 6in. leap.
John Winter holds the Australian
record with 6ft. 7fin., made in
1948, but 6ft. 6in, was enough
for him to win the Olympic
Games title the same year.
* *
Fifteen - year - old swimmer
Gary Chapman, Australian
440yds. record-holder, last week
twice set new figures for the
Australian 880yds. freestyle.
Swimming for the N.S.W. title,
which he won, he clipped 7,2 sec.
off the previous time (lOmin.
7.75ec.) in his heat, and two
nights later, in the final, took off
a further 6sec. His final time
was 9min. 54.55ec. He swam
both times in freshwater at
Bankstown Olympic Pool.
Chapman is only the second
Australian to break lOmin. for
the 880, the first being 'John
Marshall, and he’s the first to
do it in Australia. His time is
the fourth-fastest ever made. It’s
on the cards he’ll turn out a
world-beater like Marshall.
A new Australian time was
also set last week for the 100yds.
butterfly by 18-year-old Ron
Sharpe at North Sydney Olympic
Pool. In a special attempt,
unpaced, Sharpe did the journey
in 63.45ec., I.6sec. faster than
the time set by David Hawkins
last year.
* * *
Two Test series, South Africa
v. N.Z., and India v. a Common-
wealth side, have now been de-
cided, victory in each case going
to the locals. S’Africa won four
Tests, with the other drawn. The
Indians (who had a new captain
in just about every Test) won
2-1, with the other two drawn.
In the West Indies the inhabitants
are also having the best of pro-
ceedings, having beaten England
in the first two Tests.
There is once more an O’Reilly
playing for N.S.W. —John, 23-
year-old, at present of Canberra;
batsman and slow - bowler.
Against W.A. he made 41 not-
out and took a couple of wickets.
He has earned his State selec-
tion. Earlier this season he had
“most impressively” captained
N.S.W, Colts against Queensland
Colts, in that match making
113, as well as getting a few
wickets. He hasn’t the same
fearsome aspect in his bowling
approach as Bill had.
W-A. does not seem to have
come on as much as seemed
possible a few years ago. Its
bowlers are only f.a.q., and the
batting lacks solidity. Retirement
or unavailability of batsmen such
as Meuleman, Edwards and
Langdon and of bowlers Puckett
and Dunn seems to have affected
the standard of play.


deadliest and fastest aircraft in
Korean skies.
Instinctively lie banked to-
wards, his thumb on his firing-
button. But the enemy aircraft
ignored him. They continued
straight on for the dogfight
ahead. He was shocked at their
speed.
Then, through his fear, there
came to him the memory of what
he had been —in the Navy’s
Fulmars over Malta, then the
finest naval aircraft in produc-
tion ; later. Corsairs; and, later
still, the incomparable Seafires,
sea-sister of the Spit. His jaw
set, his eyes squinted, he gave
the Fury all she had, climbed
in a roar of power, and dived
towards the enemy jets at better
than 400 knots. They were now
coming up behind two Fireflies
from six o’clock.
The first enemy pair had swept
in, firing, and zoomed upwards
before he was in range, the
slower Fireflies breaking to
starb’d as fast as they could to
escape the leaden hail.
His aircraft almost vertical,
Baumer saw the Fireflies swing
fair and square into the line of
sight of the last two MiG’s. He
saw tracer stitching into the
nearer carrier plane in a vicious
flail. The port MIG crossed his
own line of fire. Baumer had
him in his sights, the gyro auto-
matically allowing for aim-off.
He pressed his button.
The Fury shuddered. Four
lines of tracer fled towards the
enemy ship, winked out abruptly
as they bit into her belly. The
MIG pulled vapor along its wing
getting out of the way. Half-
mad with his fear, Baumer barrel-
rolled round his target and
opened up again. This time he
saw fuel streaming in a quickly-
vaporising stream from the
enemy’s port wing. He pulled
out and straightened up. He was
flying close alongside the Firefly
he had saved, its fuselage and
wings holed like a colander. A
voice crackled in his ears.
“Nice work, feller. Come
again some time.”
Baumer choked. It was Sher-
wood’s voice.
He was about to answer, when
the Strike Leader’s voice came
again, harsh with urgency.
“Break starb’d! Hard as you
can. Rat attacking six-o’clock
high! ”
Baumer was half-way through
the turn when he felt his ship
shake. A chain of flashes ran
along his port wing, reaching for
the cockpit. He hauled his stick
back into his belly, hard. The
tracer fled away beneath him.
He flipped over on his back
and dived. Almost at once
another MIG crossed his sights.
He lined it up, but before he
could fire the enemy ship put its
red nose down, drawing easily
away from him in a long dive.
Baumer found himself alone.
He stared alertly ahead and to
either side, into his rear-vision
mirror. Nothing, except for a
whirling dogfight well clear to
port; and a fluxing funeral pyre
heading earthwards, revolving
gracefully as it fell. He recog-
nised the doomed aircraft for a
Fury. He licked his lips, feeling
a nauseating pulse of salty fear
in his guts and mouth. He strove
with every ounce of manhood
left in him to strangle it. The
effort brought him out in a sweat,
misting his goggles. Deliberately,
he turned his aircraft and headed
for the swirling fierceness to
port.
The carrier aircraft could not
last much longer. Only the
desperate manoeuvring of in-
comparable training kept those
that were left from the annihilat-
ing scythes of the jets’ cannon
shells. The MiG’s flew all round
them, almost as though they were
suspended, still. Six-hundred
knots playing with 400.
Barrelling-up, Baumer saw a
red-nosed demon diving from
slightly above and ahead of a
Firefly, saw the number on the
carrier ship, realised that again
it was Sherwood’s, and saw the
MiG’s wings break into balls of
smoke and flickering flame. A
soundless gibber broke from his
lips. He lined the enemy air-
craft up and flung his own
straight at it, his thumb pressed
hard on the firing-button, barely
conscious of what he was doing,
completely careless of where his
shells were going. The two air-
craft approached at close on
1000 knots, with Sherwood
desperately twisting between
them.
It all happened, at that speed,
in a flash. Still Baumer bore in,
still his thumb sent his shells
pouring out in a steady,
magazine-emptying stream. His
eyes were wide, his lips chatter-
ing as though with cold. Every
man, like every rope, has his
breaking-strain, Baumer, at
20,000 ft., had just about reached
his.
Sweeping round in a tight
bank, Sherwood, momentarily
free, had a second to record an
impression of what, was happen-
ing. He saw the Fury spearing
in an undeviating line for the
silver streak of the jet; saw them
hurtling to meet at the base of
two sloping lines ; and the enemy
craft, aware in the last fraction of
a second, abruptly flip over on
one swept-back wing and rip past
the Fury with little more than
the thickness of their skins be-
tween them.
"God!” breathed Sherwood.
And then, in a different tone of
voice: “Twenty-two flight, this is
Leader. Sabres approaching,
three-o’clock high! ”
He heard Blake’s voice, crack-
ing with tension.
“Now! Now! How about it
now, you” The observer’s
voice trailed off in a string of
profanity.
“All right, Blake,” Sherwood
ordered, his own voice hoarse
with strain. He pressed the teat
on his stick,
“Twenty-two flight, this is
Leader. Well let the Yanks in
on it. Rendezvous with me over
the harbor. Over.”
Over the harbor he called for
a squadrdn check. His face was
a grim mask as he waited after
the last had checked in. Three
more Firefliers had been com-
mitted to his memory.
They were in finger formation
again, heading home, with the
MiG’s tailing it northwards
under the equal-speed challenge
of the Sabres, when Sherwood’s
earphones crackled. His eyes
narrowed in surprise at the form
of address on the strictly regu-
lated R/T, and then opened,
wide, with recognition of the
voice.
“Sherwood? This is Baumer.
Sherwood?”
The Strike Leader stared round
instinctively, out towards the
depleted Fury formation. He
saw a fighter break formation and
head towards him, as though
Baumer had to get closer with
the importance of what he had
to say.
Sherwood took himself in
hand. Explanations could wait.
He replied in the same plain
language.
“Yes, Commander Baumer,
this is Sherwood. Over.”
Baumer’s voice came back,
cracking with tension, almost, it
seemed to Sherwood, at the point
of giggling.
“How now, Sherwood? What
about it now? Would you give
me the diving-gear now, Sher-
wood? Heh? Answer me,
damn you!”
Sherwood suddenly saw light,
realised who the Fury pilot was
who had, twice, come to his
rescue. He realised, also, that
the rest of the squadron—what
was left of it—was listening-in.
“Yes, sir,” he replied quietly.
“I would give you the diving-
gear now.”
And the implication, if not the
literal meaning of the sentence,
he meant as sincerely as he had
meant anything in his life.
“Aah!”
Sherwood heard the ejacula-
tion. Its tone made him shiver.
Then Blake broke in.
“Commander Baumer is break-
ing away, sir. Locks like he’s
meaning to be first on.”
Sherwood felt an indefinite
alaim. He increase ! his speed,
closing up on the lone Fury
ahead.
They sighted the ship, were
told to go to the v. uting position
two miles on the port side, then
made their circuits, checking
wheels and landicj hooks down.
Sherwood had broken off
when past the bridge, to turn
and fly down-wind before bank-
ing for the final line-up. He
heard Blake’s voice, interested
but unalarmed.
“That Fury’s in a hurry to get
down, sir.”
Sherwood saw the fighter
ahead and to his left, heading
for the stem.
“Good God!” he jerked.
“What’s up with the A.D.R.?
They”
He was interrupted by an
urgent voice in his ear. The
speaker, deep in the confining
walls of the aircraft-direction-
room, had been apprised of
Baumer’s negligence. Urgently
he told Baumer to draw off, that
his flaps, wheels and hook were
not down. Now Sherwood saw
the batsman crossing his bat-
extended arms in the wave-off,
urgency also in h’s gestures.
“He must be hit,” muttered
Sherwood, remembering Swan.
But Baumer was not wounded
—physically. He looked, instinc-
tively, at the ba sman, and saw
the imperative gestures. Dimly
his brain app eclated their
import. But it made no register
in muscular reaction. He flew
on, the oxygen mask ripped from
“Could I direct you ?”
his face, his eyes narrowed in a
stony stare, as though he were
drugged. One part of his brain
was working—that part which
remembered, with compelling
fascination, that other time, in
the Mediterranean, when he had
missed the wires and smacked
into the barrier.
The fear he had felt then,
crushed back into his conscious-
ness over all the years, now rose
in irresistible compulsion. His
face set rigidly as though in rock,
he flew his aircraft in low over
the deck. The belly touched
20ft. from the net. The Fury
bounced and flung itself with
smashing force into the steel-
wire mesh.
Urgently they hauled him out;
at top speed they disentangled
the crumpled aircraft, heaved it
bodily forward to the bow. The
barrier clanged up into place.
Sherwood came in.
So soon as he had taxied
forward to the parking area, with
another ship lining-up astern,
Sherwood clambered out and ran
quickly along the edge of the
flight-deck, to the island door.
He stepped in and found
Baumer in the middle of a little
group. The young surgeon had
his hand on his elbow.
Sherwood thrust through,
ordering as he came:
“Clear out of here!”
They shuffled reluctantly off,
leaving Baumer, the surgeon and
Sherwood, lire Strike Leader
drew his breath sharply as he
saw Baunaer’s face. He put his
hand out on to his arm.
“Baumer,” he said, “I want
to tell you you did a damned
grand job out there.” His voice
was jerky with strain and
emotion.
Baumer loo’ ed at him. A
brief gleam of intelligence
broke through the rigidly-set
lines of his face. He needed,
three queer little drops of his
head, and spoke.
“Yes, Sherwood? But, you
see—you know,”
His voice was quiet and
rational. The effect was horrible,
coming from that face.
Then, abruptly, he shook off
the surgeon’s hand and walked
down the ladder.
The surgeon swung back to
stare at Sherwood, his eyes wide.
“God, Dick! Did you see his
face? The S.M.O. was right.”
“What’s that?” asked Sher-
wood. He was s till staring at the
ladder.
“He told me o keep an eye
on him. I can tell you now”
f herwood interrupted him.
“Come on,” he said roughly.
“Cabin.”
They ran down the ladder and
turned aft, walking quickly.
“Good Go.II” Sherwood
ejaculated.
The shot cracked, sharp and
definite in the steel-enclosed
space. They broke into a run,
and burst into the cabin.
Sherwood pulled up dead, his
hand clutching the curtain.
Baumer was in his chair, slumped
forward on his desk, his right
hand, v/ith the pistol, resting in
the spreading pool of ink from
the knocked-over bottle. The
stain spread slowly along his
sleeve as the ship rolled. His
left wrist and hand flopped over
the open drawer.
The surgeon, his face white,
lifted Baumer’s head. He looked
at Sherwood.
“Help me on to the bunk with
him, will you?” he said huskily.
His brain bemused, Sherwood
stepped in.
Ten minutes later the bosun's-
mate left the bridge, made his
way down the steep ladders, past
the direction-room, dropped
deeper into her innards, and
hurried along the rivet-studded
passage outside the wardroom.
He was not whistling now.
He knocked on Sherwood’s
door, said “Captain wants to see
you in his sea-cabin, sir,” and
went on to the S.M.O.’s and
surgeon’s cabins, repeating the
m essage.
Still in flying-overalls, Sher-
wood stepped into the cool
spaciousness of the captain’s
cabin. He was followed almost
immediately by the S.M.O.
“Hello, Sherwood,” the doctor
grunted. He eyed the Strike
Leader keenly, one eye half-
closed. “Just as well this is your
last mission, young feller. I
prescribe a long sea voyage.”
He smiled. “Through the
Mediterranean, heading west-
ward.”
Sherwood attempted an
answering grin, without much
success. His face was drawn,
giving him a vulturine look.
“That medicine won’t take
much swallowing, sir.”
“Pretty tough, eh —this last
show?” ‘
Sherwood nodded, glad of the
chance to talk on any subject
other than the shocking scene still
vividly in his mind.
The surgeon stepped in, and
said quietly: “They’re coming
now.”
The commander waited for
the captain to enter, then came
in and slid the door to.
The captain’s face was set.
He nodded briefly, and walked
past them, laying a canvas-
covered book on his desk. Sher-
wood saw it was the deck log.
The captain came back and
faced them. He wasted no time
on preliminaries.
“The whole ship knows by
now,” he said quietly, “that Com-
mander Baumer committed
suicide. Some of us here may
know why. I don’t know about
that, nor do I want to know. I
feel—and I think I can rely on
your feeling the same —that that
is Baumer’s private business.”
He waited, and when they did
not answer, crossed to the desk.
He wrote briefly, and brought
the log back, handing it-first to
the commander, then to the
others in turn.
When they had read his entry,
a short, seamanlike record of
fact, opposite the line marked
“1100,” he looked at them.
“All right?” he said. “Good.
That’s all. Sherwood, I want to
speak to you.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” the Strike
Leader murmured, and waited
while the others stepped through
the door, the commander again
closing it behind him.
The captain shut the log and
looked at his senior pilot thought-
fully, debating how much he
should tell him.
“Sherwood,” he said at last,
“I think you should know that
Commander Baumer particur
larly mentioned your name when
he asked my permission to fly off
in that Fury.”
“Thank you, sir,” Sherwood
answered, his face grave. ‘T
didn’t know that. He did me a
damned good turn —twice, out
there.”
The captain hesitated. He de-
cided there was no good purpose
in revealing that he knew of the
bitterness between the two men.
He said, definitely: “That’s all.”
Sherwood looked at him.
“I should like you to know,
sir,” he said quietly. “I think
Commander Baumer was a very
brave man.”
The captain looked back at
him under his heavy-bushed
eyes, understanding in his shrewd
glance.
“I am glad to hear you say so,
Sherwood. So do I.”
He turned and walked to his
desk.
CHAPTER XVI
SAILORS, by reason of the
peculiarly cramped condi-
tions of their existence, are an
adaptable breed —and, so far as
past worries are concerned,
mercurial.
By the time Hawk was thread-
ing her radar-aided way through
the islands of the Inland Sea,
shaping up to the nor’-east for
Kure, the shadow which
Baumer’s death had cast over the
(<Continued on page 30)


Value
'JM
nT^s
r'■ 11 JL i )j’
2=3"
FIHVbhIStD FUEL FIRING-TYPE V MILLS
Li—
CHAIN ORATE
STOKER
=•■ '■: "'.V
mAVcR SVJKtk
t
OIL" AN L
oAS BURNER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must he sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
f
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Slates
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
of every type
and size
Famous for man/ years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL’' PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
In all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
f
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelop* Manufacturer*
Manufacturing Stationer» and Printer*
304.806 QUEEI STREET, BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCO
Since World War II few
people have had a harder diplo-
matic row to hoe than Spanish
dictator Franco in unsticking
the bad name he earned him-
self and his country by team-
ing-up with Hitler and Musso-
lini.
It is a comment on his long
and patient diplomacy that,
whereas for years after the war
he received no notice except of
a hostile character, he is now,
having brought off the swap of
bases for dollars with the U.S.,
receiving an appraisal that is
more cautious than hostile from
both the U.S. and British Press.
Franco is now 60 and, as
“U.S. News and World Report”
puts it, “ageing but not notice-
ably mellowing”;
“Firmly supported by the
Army, he continues to be the
one-man master of Spain.
Despite many reports that he
would restore the monarchy, his
present intention obviously is to
hang on to his power,
“Unlike most dictators.
Franco is no strutter. He has,
in fact, a distaste for pomp and
display. Public appearances,
speeches, with roaring crowds,
are a rarity. When he does
appear in uniform, he usually
wears only one of the several
bushels of medals that have been
bestowed upon him.
“He prefers to be aloof, re-
mote. Most of his time is spent
in an elaborate residence, with
soft carpets and tapestried walls,
outside Madrid. In this setting,
Franco lives a life of personal
austerity. A small, bare room
is his office. He is abstemious
about food, avoids wine and
tobacco. He is a family-man
and derives much pleasure from
the company of Senora Franco
and their grandchildren. A de-
vout Catholic, he hears Mass
daily in his private chapel.
“There is a weekly session with
his Cabinet. The Cortes, or
Parliament, meets periodically.
But Franco dominates both. In
Governmental affairs he can be
arrogant, stubborn, intolerant.
Opposition is regarded as rebel-
lion and quickly smothered.
The laws and edicts, and their
interpretation, are Franco’s.
“Although the Spanish people
see little of their ruler person-
ally, they always are aware of
his presence. There are stiff
penalties for so much as speak-
ing abusively of ‘el Caudillo.’
Experts on Spain are convinced
that a big proportion of the
people hate the dictator. The
firm grip of Army and secret
police, however, makes rebellion
impossible. And vivid memories
of Spain’s savage civil-war
are said to make the idea of a
repetition unthinkable to many
Spaniards.”
Franco eame up in comfort-
able circumstances and was
destined to follow his father and
grandfather into the Spanish
Navy, After the Spanish-
American War, however, the
Spanish Fleet was about as
numerically strong as its Swiss
counterpart, so Franco became
a soldier.
He had a distinguished mili-
tary career in Spanish Morocco,
leading his troops in some 150
Chicago “Sun-Times“
“IT’S COLD OUTSIDE "
engagements and becoming, at
34, the youngest brigadier-
general in Europe. At the same
time he was becoming known
for his uncompromisingly Right-
ist views, so the Republican
Government packed him safely
out of the way as Military Gov-
ernor of the Canary Islands.
When the Spanish civil war
began, however, he com-
mandeered a plane, flew to
Morocco, went thence to Spain
and was shortly in command of
the rebel forces.
From there Franco went
steadily upwards until the tide
of World War II turned in favor
of the Allies ; after that his for-
tunes declined accordingly, until,
at the end of the war, he ap-
peared to have less than a
bolter’s chance of survival. “It
is said by many in Spain,” ac-
cording to “The World Today,”
“that had the Allies sent even
a dozen planes over Madrid at
that time the Franco regime
would have fallen.”
That was bedrock, in 1945,
the year in which a resolution
was passed at the San Francisco
Conference ' debarring Spain
from membership of the United
Nations, a measure subsequently
confirmed at Potsdam by Great
Britain, the U.S*. and Russia, and
followed in March, 1946, by
Britain, the U.S. and France
publishing a Note condemning
the Spanish Government and
hoping that the Spanish people
would find a peaceful means of
changing it.
To make the casting-out com-
plete, there was, in December,
1946, the United Nations reso-
lution calling on all members to
withdraw their diplomatic repre-
sentatives from Madrid and de-
barring Spain from all activities
or agencies of the United
Nations while the Franco Gov-
ernment remained in power.
Down, but not quite out and
not quite friendless. Franco was
faced with the problem of shap-
ing a policy to win friends and
influence people who would
help pave the way for his
eventual comeback into inter-
national society.
Spain had retained the friend-
ship and steady support of
Portugal, but that was not
enough. So Franco turned to
the past. As “The World
Today” comments;
“What more natural than that
Franco should seek to develop
the links (in many cases already
close) between Spain and her
former colonies, the Xatin
American States and the Philip-
pines. Delving still further into
the past, to the time when the
Moors occupied the greater part
of Spain, Franco must have de-
cided that much could be built
on the perhaps slender founda-
tions of Spain’s link with Islam.
“Such a policy would enable
closer ties to be sought with all
the countries of the Middle East
and with Pakistan. These two
groups of States would together
provide a useful number of
votes in the United Nations.
Meanwhile, other countries with
some point of common interest,
such as the Irish Republic and
South Africa, , would not be
neglected.”
Fulsome Press and radio pub-
licity for the countries at which
Franco was aiming, lavish Span-
ish hospitality for distinguished
visitors from the same countries,
and the development of cultural
relations by various means were
among the main devices used to
win friends for Spain.
That policy has paid-off to
the extent that “Spain has
achieved her object of acting
as a link between Latin America
and the Middle East; for ex-
ample, Franco was recently
asked by the Arab League to
mobilise Latin American coun-
tries in support of its views on
Israel, the Suez Canal Zone and
the Sudan. When in November,
1950, the General Assembly
withdrew the ban on Ambas-
sadors to Spain and gave per-
mission for Spain to join the
Specialised Agencies of United
Nations, all the Latin American
and Middle East countries voted
in Spain’s favor with the excep-
tion of the hard-core of
Franco’s opponents Mexico,
Uruguay, Guatemala and Israel.
Franco could rightly feel that
his strategic plan had yielded
rich dividends and that he had
won a major battle,”
Meanwhile, there was an even
more important target U.S.
dollars, badly needed and, ac-
cording to the report of the
Banco Urquijo, Madrid, 1948,
very much hoped for. There
were setbacks here. When, in
1948, the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives voted to include Spain
among the Marshall-aid recipi-
ents, Truman had the decision
reversed. Then the Communists
failed to win the Italian elec-
tions in the face of Franco’s
hopes that a Communist win in
Italy would make Spain, in the
U.S. view, an important bastion
against Communism and, there-
fore, deserving of dollars.
The declining popularity of
Russia with the West, however,
was a favorable wind for
Franco, who had so consistently
opposed the Soviet and Com-
munism ; likewise the growing
menace of Russian strength en-
hanced the value of Spain’s
strategic geographical position.
The U.S. Services Departments
began to like the idea of Span-
ish bases, but they were over-
ruled by the attitude of the
State Department that the
Franco regime in its existing
form was unacceptable. Tru-
man’s re-election in 1948 was
a disappointment for Franco.
Despite further support from
Church and certain business
circles in the U.S., Franco failed
in 1949 to get an Export-Import
Bank loan, and suffered a
further setback when the United
Nations rejected a resolution to
allow the resumption of diplo-
matic relations with Spain.
In 1950 Franco’s star began
to glimmer slightly. The U.S.
favored withdrawing the ban on
Ambassadors to Spain, and on
Spain’s membership of the
Specialised Agencies of the
U.N., and a resolution to that
effect was passed later in the
year. Congress voted Spain a
loan over Truman’s objections,
while the entry of Chinese
troops on the side of the North
Koreans made Spanish bases
look so important to U.S. mili-
tary minds that Truman was
forced to appoint an American
Ambassador to Madrid.
But Franco hadn’t quite got
his dollars yet. When, early in
1951, the U.S. made approaches
for negotiations for bases in
Spain each side rather over-
estimated its hand and made
“unrealistic demands” on the
other. Added to which the
Korean front “stabilised” and
Admiral Sherman, a firm be-
liever in Spain’s strategic value,
died just after his visit to
Madrid in July, 1951.
Thus remarks “The World
Today,” negotiations dragged on
until September 26, 1953 —“by
which time the negotiators on
both sides were probably sadder
and wiser men. U.S. military
and economic missions had
‘ come and gone, while the seem-
ingly tranquil progress of U.S.-
Spanish relations was occasion-
ally ruffled by statements such
as that of Truman, that he had
‘never been very fond of
Franco’s regime,’ and of Eisen-
hower, to the effect that the
inclusion of Spain in Nato
would be no contribution to the
moral force in Western Europe.
“The amount eventually
granted ($226 million for the
fiscal year 1954, $125 million of
which had already been voted in
1951 and 1952 and was carried
over by Congress) must have
been a disappointment to
Franco, but the important point
is that U.S. aid has started to
flow and there is promise of
more to come.
“The Americans found
Franco a tough bargainer,
and his hand was greatly
strengthened by the good har-
vests of 1951 and 1952. In the
autumn of 1951 it was being
rumored in Madrid that the
Army was insisting that there
should be no infringement of
Spanish territorial sovereignty,
and Franco’s success in wring-
ing from the U.S. the concession


/I
“Do you think I might have a
little whisky instead: I should pref
White Horse if y° u have it.
f
f
that the Spanish flag should fly
over all bases in Spain is of
supreme importance to a nation
that produced Don Quixote.”
As one more step in his
climb towards international
respectability, Franco had also
long sought a. Concordat with
the Vatican, but his overtures
had been steadily repulsed by
the Pope, who, despite Franco’s
favorable treatment of the
Church, did not wish to associ-
ate himself more closely with
the Falangist regime. By 1951,
however, opinion had changed
sufficiently for negotiations to
begin and, a month before the
U.S.-Spanish agreement was
signed, they were successfully
concluded.
‘There is no doubt,” con-
cludes “The World Today,”
“that Franco’s foreign policy,
given the poor hand he was
originally dealt, has been highly
successful. Thanks to forth-
coming American aid, his
armed strength, the basis of all
foreign policy, will be increased
and he is well on the way to
achieving his goal of full respect-
ability in international society.
“It is rumored that even
Mexico is thinking of establish-
ing diplomatic relations, which
would mean the return of the
gold now in the possession of
the exiled Republican Govern-
ment in that country. Franco
has achieved all this, moreover,
by pulling Spain up by her own
bootstraps, almost without aid
and till now without sacrifice
of independence. Good for-
tune played a large part in his
success, but it has principally
been due to Franco himself,
who directs his own foreign
policy.”
Rearming Japan
“There is more tragedy than
irony,” comments London
“Daily Telegraph,” “in the fact
that, 12 years after Pearl
Harbor, the United States is
urgently pressing Japan to re-
create her armed forces and
providing her with aircraft, ships
and weapons to equip them”:
“The Japanese, in their re-
luctance to obey these urgings,
point to the Constitution which
was dictated to them by their
American conqueror. General
MacArthur. Under it, ‘land,
sea and air forces will never be
maintained,’ and ‘the right of
belligerency of the State is not
recognised.’ The Constitution
has, however, been held to per-
mit a ‘National Safety Force,’
which has gradually risen to a
strength of 110,000 ground
troops and a small naval con-
tingent,
“Mr. Yoshida, the Prime
Minister, has since announced
plans for further expansion. An
air-arm is to be created; and
by March, 1955, a total defence
force is to be brought up to
165,000 men.
“This is a slower rate of in-
crease than the United States
has been pressing for. Last
autumn Japan was urged to
raise an army of 325,000-350,000
as quickly as possible. The
Americans apparently held that
it should be done within three
years, while the Japanese con-
tended that it would take at
least five.
“But, at whatever pace, Japan-
ese rearmament has now defin-
itely begun. Its purpose was
clearly stated by Mr, Yoshida:
‘To defend our country with our
own hands, so that we can con-
tribute to the establishment of
a joint defence-structure among
the countries of the free
world.’ ”
To which Jules Menken adds,
in London “Spectator,” “The
final reasons why Japan must be
rearmed lie in the nature of the
cold war, in her significance for
Communist world strategy, and
in the type of means which
alone can counter Communist
aims successfully”;
“Except for natural resources,
in which she is seriously de-
ficient, Japan would be a major
prize, well worth the most seri-
ous Communist effort to cap-
tore. Of her 87 million people,
more than seven million are
males between 18 and 29, and
more than 14 million are males
between 18 and 44 —a formid-
able reservoir of military man-
power which a Communist
regime would drain to the
utmost; and after the evidence
'$*£* m,
*’“'.trour
° F k-QYPT
UKkHlNG*
,<■ you
qCTOLIT of fo h
London “Daily Express”
COVERED BOTH WAYS
of the Second World War
Japanese fighting qualities need
no comment.
“Japan is by far the most im-
portant industrial country in
East Asia. In the heavy indus-
tries, which are the foundation
of modem war, she is surpassed
only by the United States,
Britain, Western Germany, and
perhaps France in the free
world, and by the Soviet Union
alone among Iron Curtain
countries. No other Asian
country can rival Japan’s output
of steel and, outside the Soviet
Union, no engineering industry
exists east of Suez which can
equal Japan’s; while in ship-
building—and especially naval
shipbuilding—she would bring
the Communists resources in
skill and capacity whose quality
Britain, Germany and the
United States alone can out-
strip.
“The re-establishment of
Japanese armed forces will
create new problems and diffi-
cult ones. The Constitution of
1946 may have to be amended.
A further heavy burden will be
added to the already strained
Japanese economy. American
opinion will have to adjust itself
to an irresistible consequent de-
mand for expansion of Japan’s
trade with China. Britain will
feel increasing Japanese pres-
sure in the export markets.
Despite the safeguards in the
Anzus treaty, Australia and
New Zealand will be fearful of
a Japan in which even small
armed forces again exist.
Similar fears will be felt in
Asia.
“The risks are real, but in the
present situation there can be
no policy which is without
risks. The free world must
therefore accept lesser and more
distant dangers in order to cope
with existing and developing
perils.”
Egyptian Neutrality?
Commenting on the reported
inclination of Egyptian leaders
towards a policy of neutrality
between the Western and Soviet
blocs, London “Observer” notes
that, although it may be only
“a tactical move to impress the
United States, the idea of non-
commitment to either bloc has
strong roots in Middle Eastern
opinion”:
“The longer the delay in find-
ing a basis of co-operation with
the West consonant with local
national sentiments, the stronger
will this idea become, and the
more difficult it will be for
Egyptian and Arab leaders to
accept even those Western com-
mitments to which they are now
ready to agree.
“The development of India’s
foreign policy of ‘constructive
neutrality,’ or ‘enlarging the
area of peace,’ together with the
creation of the Arab-Asian
diplomatic bloc in the United
Nations, is a further powerful
inducement to avoid commit-
ments to the West.”
While an Edinburgh “Scots-
man” correspondent (Patrick
Maitland) describes such
“threats of neutrality” as “un-
realistic and alarming” and serv-
ing only to undermine Foreign
Secretary Eden’s policy of
achieving an accord with Egypt
at almost any cost, London
“Economist” points out that, to
the Egyptians, “one important
advantage of proclaiming a
policy of neutrality is that it
would place a hallmark of vir-
tue on the act of tearing up the
1936 treaty”:
“President Neguib, who is at
the moment working on a
declaration of ‘permanent’
foreign policy, has therefore
sent not only for his Ambassa-
dors to Washington and London
but also for his Ambassadors to
Moscow, Karachi and New
Delhi. The Russians, sensing
an opening, have chimed-in with
a warning that renewal of the
1936 treaty would be regarded
as an unfriendly act.
“Presumably when the Am-
bassadors forgather with the
military committee, all will
weigh the peace-time drawbacks
of cutting the link with the
Western Powers, which are obvi-
ously bigger potential investors,
and probably more trustworthy
suppliers of military missions,
than the Russians.
“The committee will have to
consider whether the Soviet
Union, as a trading partner, can
make good whatever might be
lost in the way of free Western
aid. Its final decision is not yet
a foregone conclusion, but it is
probable that its quarrel with
Britain over defence of the
canal —so much the dominating
thought in most Egyptian minds
—will outweigh all other con-
siderations.
“Neutrality may now become
for Egyptians a craze that noth-
ing but a fright from the north
will change,”
Various Voices
8.0.A.C. chairman. Sir Miles
Thomas: “I have always found
that American [air-service]
operators are very co-operative
technically. Commercially we
are perfectly happy to cut each
other’s throats —and that is
how it should be,”
U.S. Secretary of State
Dulles: “There can be no long-
term assurance of security and
vitality for Europe, and there-
fore for the Western world,
including the United States, un-
less there is a unity which
includes France and Germany.”
Sir Thomas Sopwith (air
pioneer): “We [Great Britain]
should not be content with
breaking the sound-barrier. We
should probe far beyond it and
we should go higher and higher
into the stratosphere with our
research work, so that those
things which are mysteries now
will be commonplace tomorrow.
The ultimate defence of our
country, of Western Europe and
of the free world lies in the
realms of flight at several times
the speed of sound, coupled with
high-altitude research.”
General Gruenther (Supreme
Allied Commander in Europe):
“The Soviets would be faced
with some very difficult deci-
sions in launching a war. There
would be a great deal they
would have to do, and they
might win the first phase, but
over the longer period they
would face a very difficult
situation.”
Admiral Radford (chairman
of U.S. Joint Chiefs-of-staff):
“I do not envisage, in 1954, any
reduction in the vast military
force of international Com-
munism This does not neces-
sarily mean that we will be
faced with global war. Recur-
ring local situations, or ‘hot-
spots,’ are likely to be with us
for a long time to come.”
Eisenhower: “The fact that
we [U.S.A.] can now reduce our
foreign economic assistance in
many areas is gratifying evi-
dence that its objectives are
being achieved. By continuing
to surpass her pre-war levels of
economic activity. Western
Europe gains self-reliance. . , .
The free world can no longer
afford the kinds of arbitrary
restraints on trade that have
continued ever since the war.”
Lord Balfour of Burleigh:
“The hard fact is not sufficiently
realised that no one in the world
owes us [Great Britain] a living
and that, utterly dependent as
we are on the sale of exports in
a buyers’ market, nothing will
get us through but tremendous
efficiency and the fullest com-
petitive power.”


ƒ
SS/fSAT/OJVAL
BATTERY IMPROVEMENT
Willacdv
SAFETY-
FILL
f
f@22
N.O
INCREASE
IN COST!
First la Australia! The genuine Willard Safety-Fill feature
is the simplest, most accurate principle developed to
prevent overfilling and the resulting acid spray which
can cause dangerous corrosionl
WRITE FOR FREE FOLDER. Send now for your copy of
the "Safety-Fill” folder that tells about the exclusive
Willard Safety-Fill battery—WRITE NOW!
illard
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. of AUST. PTY. LTD.
160 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
ship had been mainly dispelled
by the exciting thought of what
lay ahead, A quick and willing
store-ship in Kure, then the easy,
danger-free cruise home, across
the Indian Ocean, up through the
sand-bound Suez —with a spot
of shore-leave in Port Said —sun-
baking hours in the Med., and
then —home.
Entering harbor at nine
o’clock the white-dressed lines of
cheerful faces formed up on the
flight-deck, now transformed
from a place of toil and rush to
a sun-warmed parade-ground.
The tug hooked on, the lines
went out. Hawk snuggled her
tired length against the pier
across from the hospital and
went to sleep. Ahead of her,
her travail before her, lay the
veranda’d bulk of their relief.
Sherwood had risen late this
morning, and had just caught his
breakfast before it went off. Hap
waited for him to finish, noting
with inward content that the
Strike Leader had regained some
of his normal freshness. Most
of the lines had smoothed from
his rested eyes, though the twin
valleys still ran down from either
side of his hooked nose. They
were etched too deeply for
erasure, even by the first restful
sleeps he had had for weeks.
Sherwood looked suddenly at
Hap and grinned.
“Seeing as we’re eminently due
for departure from this celestial
paradise, how about that jeep-
ride today?”
“That could be arranged,”
Hap smiled back, and replaced
the last mouthful of toast with a
mouthful of gum,
“Let’s say about”
He stopped as a steward bent
over Sherwood.
“Shore phone, sir,” the steward
said.
Hap saw Sherwood’s face
tighten.
“Thank you,” he said, and
pushed back his chair.
Now what’s up. Hap pondered
as he watched Sherwood take
down his cap and step out the
door.
Sherwood walked quickly to
the phone, his former content-
ment vanished. In the stress of
the last few days he had com-
pletely forgotten Natalie, Now
that trouble had come swamping
back, making a mockery of the
blessed relief of Baumer’s
absence and the thought of
home.
He picked up the phone.
“Sherwood.”
Natalie’s voice came, coolly
restrained.
“Before I start I want to tell
you that contacting you again
gives me no particular pleasure,”
Sherwood felt his anger rising
sharply in him.
“You will remember, no
doubt, the conversation we had
some nights back,” Natalie went
on, in the same faintly contemp-
tuous tone. “Well, I have this
to tell you now. You have
nothing to worry about,”
Sherwood felt himself floun-
dering, his anger melting in a
great relief.
“What—er —what did you
do?” he jerked, stupidly.
“Seeing we’re on such intimate
grounds”—the contempt in her
voice cut him —“I did not do
anything.”
“Then what”
“You will be relieved to
know,” she went on, “that it was
a ... a false-alarm.”
Sherwood breathed deeply.
“Natalie,” he said earnestly.
“I know how you feel —about
how I acted. But there were
other reasons, then. Look here —
I can’t tell you like this. Could
I see you —tonight?”
Sherwood would for long
remember her next words.
“Dick,” she said evenly, “I
thought I knew a good deal about
men, till I met you. I must thank
you for completing my know-
ledge. I say completing, because
nothing that calls itself a man
could possibly reach lower down
the scale. Goodbye.”
For a full five seconds Sher-
wood stared stupidly at the dead
receiver in his hand. Then he
replaced it slowly, staring out
across the quarter-deck to the
hospital on the hill. Relief came
slowly, flooding in and sub-
duing the hurtful shame her
words had surfaced. Then he
grinned, wryly, and walked to the
bulkhead-door, watched un-
noticed by the interested quarter-
master. He had to admit she
had hit hard, and true—what-
ever else he was, Sherwood had
the saving grace of being honest
with himself.
He stepped inside the white-
painted passageway, smiling
openly, and headed for Map’s
cabin.
* ♦ *
A little before dusk the next
day Hawk cleared the harbor,
heading south. A few Japanese
fishing-boats watched her curi-
ously. Across the flat, darkling
sea the fishermen could see the
massed ranks drawn up on her
aircraft-free decks. In front of
the ship’s company, heads bared
and bowed, the chaplain stood,
close to the stern, the captain a
little behind him. Near the
captain several pilot’s-mates
waited, wreaths in their hands.
The chaplain finished, and the
commander nodded to the
bugler. Sherwood raised his
head, staring into the dark wells
of the heavens; remembering
Swannie. Sweet and clear the
notes of the Last Post sang across
the polished sea, glancing with
the last rays of the sinking sun.
The last low, thrilling note died.
The wreaths fell, struck the wash
and bobbed off astern. Sherwood
watched them receding along the
white sword of her passage,
drifting slowly into the dim limit-
less expanse of the encroaching
sea. He bowed his head.
The company dismissed.
Hawk steamed on, the night
enveloping her in a sable flood
from the east. Lights appeared
along her sides, shining round
through the ports like dilated
eyes.
Four hours later she was well
clear of the land. It was a clear,
quiet, starred night; the firma-
ments of sky and reflecting sea
barely separable by the merging
line of the encircling horizon.
The vast reach of the ocean,
heaving with long, lingering
swells, like a giant’s chest breath-
ing, stretched before her. Th®
ocean —and home.
Gradually, porthole by port-
hole, she closed her eyes and went
to sleep.
[The End]
it had to come, best to come
soon. Every minute saved prob-
ably means one less blanket with
its lifeless contents being carried
past our door. Everywhere there
is an overwhelming sensation of
relief. This seems to swallow-
up everything. Probably it is
different if you are in there
throwing your rifle away. If
there is anyone left to throw it
away.
Most of us can’t sleep tonight.
There is too much to think about.
Fancy being a prisoner-of-war!
Really one yourself. I wrote to
Mrs. T. when Normand was
taken in Egypt. There is nothing
to talk about, so we just go on
talking. I don’t want to write
any more either.
The padre has just been here.
My friend of the books. He has
a pretty good slant on this. “It’s
my big chance,” he says. “Lots
of the lads will be wanting some
help.” He is a monk, I think,
in ordinary times. He means it,
that is the remarkable thing!
* * *
m
Changi Christmas
CJTILL here; and alone for the
first time for months. The
room is quiet. All the others have
gone to a service at St. Andrew’s,
They are rather good with carols
and so on, and Moses K. (the
senior chaplain Bth Aust. Div.)
is at his best at this time of the
year. It is beautifully cool, and
the wind is puffing through the
bolted shutters. Behind me, the
big map of Europe taps quietly
against the wall as it waves in
the draught. On the table is a
bowl of colored leaves and big
flushed hibiscus. We have stood
the Christmas-cards on top of
the bookshelf. Some are excel-
lent, all are good. Better, prob-
ably, than they are having at
home.
Lights-out has been extended
to midnight, and when the others
come back we will be having a
party; curried chicken and
bread, with a drop of coffee,
“Merry Christmas” everyone
says, and hands are gripped.
Phil is coming with the
others and we are going to try
a new game invented by .
“Tomorrow’s Headlines” he calls
it. There are three hats filled
with bits of paper. In one a series
of events, in the second the name
of a person, in the last the name
of a place. You draw a piece of
paper from each hat and may
get something like this: “Tenuo
Heika seduces John Curtin in
law-school lift.” Then you have
five minutes to write your article
for next morning’s stop-press.
Are we decaying mentally be-
cause we laugh ourselves sick at
the good answers?
My second Christmas as a
prisoner. Last year everyone was
animated by hope, this time we
are not so sure. The war is the
real life now; Leura, the
Christmas Tree, the old man in a
ridiculous paper cap, the almonds
and raisins, the thin wine-glasses,
belong to another age, as remote
as Tsarist Russia. Life now
unfolds itself in a monotonous
stream of days. But our small
circle is lucky, for we are well.
The hospital is full of skeletons,
sunken-eyed with withered skins
rotten with pus.
We are sentimental tonight,
welcoming the furtive tear that
somehow will not come. It is a
sentiment of rustling leaves in the
dry forest of this existence. Love,
memory and imagination are
now the stuff of life. Like the
silkworm, we spin our world
about our eyes and live within
it. But not quite. Some nights,
when we wander out and look at
the stars and see Orion and the
Cross, you feel something then.
Someone else is having a party
tonight. They are in the atap
hut on the other side of the road.
They have a concertina. Of
course it plays the great nostalgic
tune —‘Through pleasures and
palaces there’s no place like
home.”
All hearts are beating differ-
ently tonight, deeper, deeper.
You need no concertinas for
that. At home the turkey, with
its prominent breastbone, squats
on the sideboard. We should be
using the hand-painted dinner-
service with much exaggerated
toasting and something of an
atmosphere of Family Album.
The aunts are there in full array,
and my wife, feeling a little out
of things with so much of the
family about. After we leave the
house it would be her time, hers
and mine.
This is not Christmas at all.
♦, • *
IV
Freedom, Sweet
Freedom
AT last there is a gleam of
*** hope. We need it. We are
almost at the end of our tether.
Lately the Nips have made
things really tough. We are pre-
paring for a siege. Quite often
we see the squadrons of Super-
fortresses high up like tiny fish
swimming very slowly. We see
the puffs of smoke all round
them, then hear the bombs
falling.
We have also heard about the
new bombs which melt steel
towers and turn sand into glass.
Will they drop them on Japan,
and if they do will the war end?
Will it really happen?
But we shut those thoughts
away, because we can’t afford
to be disappointed. So you try
and think of something else. Yet,
however you try, you can’t shut
out the little voice deep inside
you that goes on hoping and
hoping.
The news is getting more
exciting. All sorts of things are
happening to Japan. There is
even a rumor that Russia is com-
ing in. “She’ll be right,” say the
optimists, “now Uncle Joe’s in.”
We are working, though, just
the same. And the men are
dying, just the same. On our
party today the Nip guard makes
us fall-in. One man is so weak
he pitches forward on to his face.
The Nip roars and waves his
hands. The chap standing beside
me mutters, “What’s he bawling
about? He said ‘fall-in,’ didn’t
he?”
They drag the offending body
out of the line. Our work is
unsatisfactory, the guard tells us.
Our rest-period is to be reduced
to one half-day a fortnight. We
don’t go on strike or hold a
protest-meeting. We simply pick
up the traces of the water-cart
and haul all five tons of it back
to the jail.
In the jail there is a lot of
buzz about the news; a few
drops of fact and gallons of
rumor. I crawl into my bed,
which I have christened “the bug-
proof shelter.”
I look up at the thatched roof
of the atap hut. The atmosphere
is thick. Those asleep gurgle and
grunt, and from the corridors
comes the scraping of clogs on
concrete. Somewhere in the
distance the cooks are banging
their dixies. I watch the stars
through a hole in the roof. Our
stars, which, on cold nights, we
have watched so often together.
And I try not to think of suppers
at home, and fires and plates of
food balanced on our knees. The
effort of not thinking sends me
to sleep.
Suddenly I am awake. Some-
thing is happening. I hear urgent
whispers.
“Wake up, wake up!”
A figure is crouching by my
bed talking to my neighbor,
“It’s true, Alick, I tell you.
Wake up.”
Each time he whispers, almost
harshly, he shakes the bed for
emphasis.
“It’s true, it’s true. I tell you,
Alick, I heard it myself. It's
finished. We’re free. The war
is over, man. It’s bloody well
over, I tell you. Finished —
over.”
He is almost sobbing with
excitement and at our stupid dis-
belief. But we understand all
right. - Only we must have a
minute or two so that it can
really take possession of us.
There are explosions in my
chest which apparently is my
heart beating. Our informant
follows with a rush of detail.
No rumor this. God, it has
actually happened!
A few words more and I have
had enough. I lie back in the
bug-proof shelter wondering if
I am going to die now, at the
supreme moment. I try to think
slowly, to savor this feeling and
hold it for ever. But the whole
hut is astir. Along the rows
of men in their rags I hear the
flints striking and see the glow-
ing cigarette-ends. The precious
tobacco hoarded for months for
this very minute is being used
now.
I feel X must walk somewhere,
so I go out to the latrines. There
are about a thousand men there,
whispering and shaking hands!
I see the big drover who lost his
leg and the little man from Mel-
bourne who knows the name of
every racehorse alive or dead.
“How is she, sarge?” he says.
“We’ve made it!”
His little rat face looks serene.
The cigarette-makings are being
passed round, and because I can
never roll them properly the
drover hops over on his one leg
and rolls one for me. His fingers
are shaking so much he can
hardly do it. Finally he hands it
to me to be licked.
“Spit on it yourself, sarge,” he
says. “I’m dry.”
He hops off to join another
group.
The racing man watches him
go. “Guess his missus will be
glad to see him, even that way,”
he says.
I walk about trying to analyse
it all here, in the jail amongst
my friends. I can’t do it. The
thing is tremendous, beyond me.
There is no feeling of relief nor
any sense of liberation. Only z
surge of confidence and wonder.
Presently a man I have not
seen before grasps my hand.
“Pity we can’t have a victory
dinner,” he says.
The word sounds odd at first.
Then, suddenly, it makes sense.
It is a victory in its way. Or
rather, a thousand victories; for
each of us, at last, has won the
battle against himself.


The HUSBANDMEN
by OLAF RUHEN
HO
was Rulago? Where
\A / ve ’ when?]
Y V Who was his father and
his mother, and who
his brothers and sisters? How
did he come by the things that
he knew? And who were his
friends, and who his teachers?
Was he in love, perhaps, when
he was young? And was he
lonely when he was old? How
can we know so little of a man
who gave so much? Is there
not someone who remembers?
There is a song they sing in
the gardens when it is planting-
time and they remember Rulago.
It is just a little song, with a
little lilt in the singing that
lightens the burden of the work
and stays its tedium. And the
song is nothing, for it has no
meaning, but the work is lighter
when the people sing it. And so
sometimes the men, setting the
seed in the soil hoed high from
the garden paths, sing to them-
selves;,
Rulago and me, Rulago and me,
Rulago knows of the seed of the
trees
Rulago knows, Rulago knows,
The seed and the tree are
Rulago’s.
But this is little to hold and
keep as the memory of a man.
There anT other stories of
Rulago, and from them we can
discover something of his spirit.
We know that he could fight
like a strong man with the cun-
ning of twenty. And we know
that people did things because
he willed it. We know that he
lived by himself in the forest, if
indeed he lived and was of the
earth at all; for some people
think that Rulago is a demigod
and a nothingness, and dead
With the gods themselves.
But if a man, like Rulago,
goes apart from the people and
sits by himself, and sees the
clear visions of truth unclouded
by the commerce of social
thought and the striving for a
diversity of ends, he may yet
discover wonders as great as
those of Rulago’s. If his mind
is concerned with these things
he may discover Rulago; for
there is a trace here, a sign
there, a memory further off;
and alf the many years of time
may be bridged by a little man
if he has patience and the hope
of coming to an end. There
are memories of Rulago, and
there is a stone which was
Rulago’s in the river.
r T'HE river is the Sasato river
-*■ which runs today between
the villages of Bagusini and
Dumdain. The Sasato empties
into the Buasi, and the Buasi
runs between Busama and
Buang. But in the days of
Rulago there was no village at
Bagusini or at Dumdain; nothing
at all at Busama or Buang. The
villages came later, after the gar-
dens appeared, and the clearings
in the forest, and in Rulago’s
time there were none of these.
The people were hunters only,
moving swiftly from place to
place and seeking the wild fruits,
the plantains and the taro and
the figs in their season. When
there was aplenty they ate more
than their fill, but often and
often there was little or nothing.
There were no paths through the
forest, not wide paths and good,
and at nights the people secured
themselves wherever they could
against their enemies. And the
enemies, too, ranged as far as
they could for food, and slept
uneasily.
The people lived together, and
moved together with the seasons
from one place of last year’s
good eating to the next; and
once there was a time when
Rulago moved with them. He
was first of all the boys of his
age to learn the secrets of
weapons and the rituals of good
hunting. He learned the trees
and grasses and the flowers;
which killed, which cured, and
which were good to eat. He was
the most silent at his initiation ;
his flesh did not flinch from the
knife and they carved the pat-
terns deep and heavy in his skin.
He was old and wise in the
head, and soon he was bigger
than all the men; yet he looked
young. When he slept or when,
he sat his limbs lay heavy as
an old woman’s; and when he
was hunting he was tireless. The
mountains made him heavy in
the chest and thighs; the rivers
deepened his chest and his arms.
He was first of all his age to be
admitted to the lower councils;
and he was the first, too, to lose
his friends amongst the elders.
He was a strong youth and
quick on his feet, and handy in a
fight; and he learned quickly
all that his elders could teach
him. Too quickly he learned
the things they would not teach
him. He saw, as he was meant
to see, the thing that had been
Agilop, who was taken in
adultery with Aqs the wife of
Ruami the headman, shuffling
piteously three days with the
people as they moved through
the forest; the fingers of his
hands broken and swollen, his
tongue pierced with poisoned
needles and swollen until his
mouth could not contain it, his
ears pierced and useless and his
body racked with pain.
And he saw the people, no
better and no worse than Agilop,
add to his pain and his suffering
and laughingly cry to the chil-
dren to watch, and encourage
them to do the same; until
Agilop died of his sufferings.
And when Aos dropped out
from the march and was not seen
again he knew that the other
elders had also had their way.
And so he learned that a com-
munity needs government, and
government needs fear. He
learned that if there is no fear
the government is threatened and
is itself afraid, and when the
suspicion of this knowledge in
him came to the older men ho
learned to be careful of his
tongue and his ways, for a
government in fear is a govern-
ment about to strike, quickly
and blindly and savagely and
often.
»
A ND Rulago, who thus began
to know his people and
hence to love them, who knew
no fear and needed no govern-
ment, parted from them all and
stayed alone in the forest.
The people went on and soon
forgot him. But Rulago had
the silence of the days and the
forest, and he learned from his
eyes and his ears and his nose
and his tongue and the tips of
his fingers. He stayed there in
that one stretch of the forest
where the Sasato runs into the
Buasi, and the trees were his
friends.
He lived well, for there were
many fish in the river, and he
was quick with a spear, and he
made twine from the bark of
tree-roots and braided it into
net. He knew where the birds
nested, and how to hunt the
snakes and the lizards and all the
little animals. Where the people
left scant pickings for a tribe
there was plenty for Rulago, who
needed little.
At the place where the Sasato
pours its flood into the Buasi a
mighty rock marks the junction,
and the rivers break against its
sides. Where the whirlpools
boil away from it into the main
current, twisting and turning like
a school of cornered eels
amongst the reefs and boiling
up white and fierce and silent,
the rock stands sheer to the sky,
higher than the highest trees, and
sheer. To landwards it breaks
away, and the approach to it
is easy from any direction. An
enemy could take a man here at
his leisure. But there are ledges
and clefts on the landward side
that make a shelter, and here
Rulago spent many of his days
in thinking and dreaming.
If he had work to do he
brought it here, and if he had
none he sat here and watched
the ants running always on their
errands, or the lizards, blue and
gold and black. He sat a great
deal on the rock, and for him
it was a kind of home.
Often when people came into
his domain he watched them, but
he avoided them, and went to
some trouble that they would not
find him. He covered up the
traces of his hunting and walked
where he would not raise the
chattering parrots to a rage.
When Rulago had lived in this
place many years he made him-
self a garden., That is to say, he
cleared away a little bush here
and there, and he planted a root
or a seed, and he watched. And
when the fruit was ripe, or the
root was ready for lifting, he
found that certain places grew
yams of great size, and in others
the beanpods were long and full,
and the plantains were softer to
the mouth, and grew taller, and
kept more of their fruits away
from the reach of the little
ground animals. And his gar-
dens were better when they were
bigger, and lay open to the sun,
and the trees were cleared away
from where they were.
NOW, there was too much in
the garden for Rulago, and
his heart was drawn to the
people he had left. For he
knew that in these places they
could build big gardens and
grow fat amongst the fruits and
stay in one place and nevermore
be driven to travel daily into
new fears. But he knew that
if he went back to live amongst
them now they would fear him,
and the old men would remove
him from the tribe and from life.
Nor did he think they would
listen to him with Iris talk of
gardens. And so he thought
of a plan to bring them to the
building of gardens, and he
made a charm that was strong
magic.
From the bark of tree-roots he
made twine, and from the twine
he made two carrying-bags. In
the bag that he carried in his
right hand he put seeds a, id the
bulbs of lilies and the shcots of
sugar. But in the bag that he
carried in his left hand 1 e put
all manner of charms, and he
used the charms when he worked
in the garden. And the charms
he made had each of them a
strong smell. Some of them
were made from the skin of
the cus-cus, and some of the
beaks of hornbiils, and one was
a tobacco-pipe made from bam-
boo and a dried bean. And the
smell of all there things carried
on the wind, and travelled
quickly.
Sometimes brfore this the
people in their travels had come
upon the gardms of Rulago,
and they said “Who is this that
has cut way the trees? And who
is this that has set stakes for the
beans to climb upon? And who
has set the pit-pit and the sugar
in straight lines?”
The women had huddled in
groups and held the children to
them; and the men also had
shown their fear; but the food
had been good, and they had
stripped the plants quickly and
run away through the forest
looking behind them and freez-
ing to immobility at familiar
sounds. Nor at any lime did
they come that way again. And
Rulago, watching, had been sore
at heart, though he knew well
enough that this must be the
way of it; for the good food
always continued to grow and be
good, only to fall at last to the
possums and the flying-foxes;
and Rulago’s labor had been in
vain.
But now, after he fashion id
his charms, when the people
travelled to leeward of his gar-
dens, Rulago made a sing-sing,
and his voice carried through
the trees, and when he raised
his right hand above his head,
with the carrying-bag of seeds
and shoots and roots, he sang
of planting things, and things
growing, and the sun and the
moon and the rain. And when
he raised his left hand with the
carrying-bag of charms his songs
became incantation, and the
smell cf the charms in the bag
followed the sounds of his sing-
ing through the forest and
stopped the people where they
travelled down the lazy wind.
“Who is this that sings in
the forest?” people said. And
they said “What are these smells
that travel on the wind?” And
most of them had great fear;
and the warriors left their bur-
dens with the people and took
their weapons and ran swiftly
upwind to find the singer and
the man who spread the smell
abroad.
Always when they were a little
way on the path they would
find a garden, and the beans in
it long and bursting, or the yams
big and mighty, so they mar-
velled. But there was no
Rulago, no singer. So they
would call the people, and set
a watch about the garden, and
strip the plants and be on their
way as quickly as they could.
RULAGO sorrowed, because
he had set them a lesson
and they would not read. But
he tried and he tried, and when
the bananas were ripe again in
a garden x>reviously stripped he
called the people back again
with the chanting and the smells
of his magie. For many years
he set his gardens and he called
the people, but they would not
learn, and he knew that if he
were to go amongst them he
would quickly die, because they
would fear hum.
Whether the people were in
the vicinity or not, always when
he made a garden he took his
charms and his seeds, the seeds
in his right hand and the charftis
in his left, and went to his rock
above the water where the
Sasato leaps to its union with
the Buasi, and he would make
his sing-sing and exhort his
charms, and the smell of his
magic was very strong in that
place.
Once Rulago set out a garden,
and when it was young, before
it was half-planted, the smell of
his charms and the smoke of his
tobacco brought the warriors of
the people to the place, and they
showed fear and surprise. For
the seeds of his garden, waiting
to be planted, lay on the ground,
and the smell of his charms was
over them. It was mingled with
the smell of the newly-burnt
brush and the strong smell of
newly-turned earth, and they
could see the footprints of
Rulago upon the earth.
They picked up the seeds, and
they were the seeds of the plants
that gave them food as they
knew well; but the people did
not know about planting them
under the soil. But where the
new plants were showing above-
ground they pulled up some of
them and found the seed, and
the seeds were all at the one
stage of growing. One amongst
another of the people said “We,
too, could do this thing, if we
knew the sing-sing, and if we
had the charms that have
their smell upon this place.”
For the first time it seemed
good to the people that they
should have a garden of their
own.
But Rulago knew still that if
he were to come among them
then they would fear him and
kill him and run away, because
they would not understand a
man who brought a gift. So he
held apart, and for many years
he grew his gardens and made
his sing-sing and kept his charms
renewed and their smell strong
and pungent. People came more
often to that place, and they had
less fear of the gardens, but at
nights they did not stay.
But the old men talked, and
they watched the gardens, and
sometimes they came upon
the ground when it was newly
cleared, and sometimes before
the seed had sprouted, and they
said:
“We could make a garden for
ourselves, and grow yams and
kau-kau if we had the magic of
Rulago, if we could sing the
songs and use the charms.”
Ago! a the headman said
“We must keep a lookout and
stay in this place, and when we
smell the smell of the charms
we must take Rulago and then
the magic of Rulago will be
ours and we will build a garden.
NONE of the elders took up
the straws of argument to
deny the words of Agola._ For
(Continued on page 35)
SEA-SNAKE
Ribbon of too brilliant light that
leapt out
Of the water, a live snake; I am
of men ,
Who love the inanimate gleam,
and hate
The living reptile. But, say,
would I, then,
Prefer to go back to a lifeless day,
When the spineless water la pped
the rocks,
If I could not have all that think-
ing makes
Lovely and friendly and uieful?
They
That are evil in my eyes,
creatures
Of seabed and wave, that have
My enmity and fear, with no
claim to my love,
I must abhor and condemn, ever,
their natures.
They are Anti-Christ’ n; death in
life; ungodly contrast,
Like the beauty of an evil woman,
her present and past.
QUEENSIAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


V'v
hasn’t heard about
f
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT
Less Work Less Water
Larger Crops
Investigate AMES Irrigation Equipment for a system tailored
to your needs.
With AMES A.B.C .-coupled aluminium pipe your lines are
set up in a matter of minutes. Push-click the pipe is coupled,
then automatically locked and sealed by water pressure.
An easy, twisting pull and it’s apart. No locks, hooks or
gadgets. Saves hours of time and labour.
Make the most of your water with
AMES
TOW-A-LiNE ROTO-RAIN PERF-O-RAIN
GATED PIPE and A.B.C. COUPLERS
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney.
P.O. Box 509 Phone: BU 5095
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga & Hay
Specialists in Irrigation
GD3S/1
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
?61bs.
ƒ
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
i n
•totements. etc.. Clad in the
“Sander*" can be tocumly
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each a-onth —pt
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. \M
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
I
SAMDEHSJtI
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
...
tber
«P«»
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Farmer’s Thoughts
“C.S.”: D. E. Poulsen, of the
Mary Valley, claims that
Queensland farmers could learn
a lot from overseas methods. He
has been studying agriculture in
England on a Nuffield Founda-
tion scholarship.
He says England, only a 60th
the size of Australia, annually
produces more wheat and her
wheat yield is 150 bushels to
the acre, compared with Queens-
land’s 25.
Britain’s success in revitalising
her farm-programme, he said,
had been helped by applying
business methods to production.
However, this drive is now at its
limit because high taxation has
killed all incentive for those able
to expand operations.
These were the large farmers
—one with 10,000 acres of
potatoes produced more than did
all Queensland.
Extensive use of fertiliser—
-3,000,000 tons a year gives
England an advantage. Much
of this goes in pasture-improve-
ment, and pays-off when stock
has to be handled for months at
a time. Grass silage used in this
has a 20 per cent, protein
content. Scientific and frequent
use of roughage gives enormous
benefits.
In England milk output was
increased by proper feeding of
protein-rich roughage. A side-
issue of this research indicated
that many stock losses in Queens-
land droughts were caused
through a vitamin-“A” defi-
ciency in the stock.
Vanishing Fodder
“Stanley Weyman”: Among
vanishing native fodder-trees is
the supple-jack. Many declare
it better fodder than kurrajong,
and it is a species with which
much might be done in combat-
ing erosion, for it has a sucker-
ing habit that ties down the light,
drifting sand. Kept lopped,
supple-jack planted on an eroded
area also supplies shade.
The edible species of wilga
(Geijera parviflora) has always
been a favorite with sheep.
Some pastoralists are waking-up
about this species, preserving
areas of it for shelter-trees that
help with feed when pastures
fail. Few seeds are so easily
germinated.
For nourishment, the boonery
or emu-bush (Heterodendron
oleifolium ) surpasses the kurra-
jong. But it has a fault: at times,
often following rain, its foliage
has a prussic-acid content. For
that reason it should be fed
cautiously to sheep at the start.
Despite this, it is a fine fodder
species.
Belah, berrigan, colane and
butter-bush are other fodder-
producers which in droughts
have saved thousands of stock.
In return, have they been shown
any thanks in the form of pro-
tection?
What is needed now to save
all these and other fodder-tree
species from extinction is an
Australia-wide survey to assess
the existing numbers of each
species. With foresters and con-
servation experts now active in
many districts, it should be pos-
sible to accomplish such a sur-
vey within a year. Thereafter
the increase and decrease of the
native fodder-plants should be
watched.
As well as providing reserves
of tree-fodder, the cultivation of
these species would help solve
erosion problems, would
“Dad built the original gate, and I've gradually improved
on it."
beautify the land and would en-
sure the preservation of valuable
and beloved trees and keep the
treescape Australian.
Sod-cuiture in Orchards
“Scot”: Sod-culture is becom-
ing more widely adopted in
orchards. There is little doubt
of its value on hillsides subject
to severe erosion, and even on
fairly level orchard-land the
sodded area between trees keeps
the soil firm.
Orchard sods should contain
leguminous plants, either peren-
nial clovers or annual clovers,
which are encouraged to grow
each year. Without them some
nitrogen fertiliser is essential.
In the moist eastern States of
U.S.A. it has been shown that
old sods actually hold more
moisture in the soil than long-
cleanly-cultivated land on
slopes, with the soil’s structure
destroyed, its rain-penetration
reduced and run-off increased.
However, there are still mis-
givings about sod-culture in dry
summers, when the sod competes
seriously with the trees for the
available soil-moisture. Because
of this, sod-culture in U.S.A. is
now either being supplemented
with, or replaced by, hay (prefer-
ably legume) mulch.
Requeening
“Hux”: The virgin queen
fresh issued from a colony needs
no introduction to the hive, but
introducing a queen by direct
methods from one colony to an-
other calls for caution.
First, find and remove the
old queen. Sometimes this in-
volves removal of the combs,
searching of the inside walls and
bottom-board of the hive, and
even sieving the bees through a
queen-excluder.
New queens are most readily
accepted when the colony has
been queenless for some hours,
but the longer the colony is left
without a queen the harder it is
for the bees to accept a new one.
When there is a dearth of
nectar and the bees are discon-
tented the colony should be fed
a sugar-syrup to prevent balling
of the new queen.
The late W. A. Goodacre, a
bee-expert, maintained that if
the queen-bee showed no ner-
vousness when placed with the
strange bees she was generally
accepted. To achieve this she
should be placed in the hive
when the attention of the bees
is distracted from her by the
smoking or paper-bag method.
The colony having been
queenless for some hours, the
smoker is lighted about dusk.
When a good volume of smoke
is obtained a matchbox full of
tobacco is added to the smould-
ering fuel. Once the tobacco
odor becomes strong, the en-
trance to the hive should be nar-
rowed an inch or two, and two
or three good puffs of smoke
blown through it. After a few
minutes give another puff or
two, sufficient to induce an up-
roar in the hive. The cage con-
taining the queen is then opened
close to the entrance of the
hive to allow her to run into it.
A further puff of smoke should
follow.
Next morning the entrance to
the hive is quietly enlarged.
The colony is then left undis-
turbed for at least a week.
For Fruit-fly
“Ann”: The fly does not place
its eggs in blossoms or on the
young fruit. It lays in fruit
approaching maturity by punc-
tures of |in. to iin. depth.
Hatching takes place in from two
to three days. The maggot is
white, with hook-like jaws which
enable it to burrow through the
fruit tissues.
Foliage-spraying should begin
at least five weeks before the
fruit is due to ripen. An effect-
ive spray may be made by dis-
solving loz. of tartar emetic or
sodium fluosilicate in Igal. of
water. This should be bottled
and marked “poison.” To use
the spray, a pint of the solution
is added to a pint of water and
of sugar.
Spraying of the foliage should
be frequent, preferably every
second day. All infected fruit,
whether on the tree or on the
ground, should be burnt or
boiled, and not placed in gar-
bage-tins or other receptacles.
Fodders for Drought
“Yorick”: Whether farmers on
the N.S.W. North Coast learned
anything from the recent drought
remains to be seen. Too many
depend entirely on grass and
expect a generous Providence to
keep it green and growing for
their cows.
One thing against the lesson
being learned is the encourage-
ment to bad farming given by
Governments in providing
negligent farmers with fodder
at starving-stock rates.
Coarse fodders, such as cow-
cane, elephant-grass, pampas and
bamboo, produce large tonnages
of stuff which can stand for use
as roughage when required. This
roughage will supply the bulk in
the feed, and bulk is the scarcest
and relatively most costly portion
in a drought.
These grasses have been
ignored or despised because of
their high fibre-content, but
modern findihgs are that the fibre
is broken down into a nutritious
form by the natural bacteria in
the cow’s paunch. To stimulate
the bacteria for the purpose, urea
and molasses should be fed with
the roughage.
Potato-moth
“Big Billy”: So long as the
weather is warm and dry potato-
moth will be active. To ensure
maximum protection, bag the
potatoes immediately after dig-
ging. Sew bags at once and turn
them upside-down or cover with
an empty bag. Cart from the
paddock as soon as possible.
Destroy waste tubers and host
plants such as nightshade, thorn-
apple and henbane.
Inspect crops frequently, and
if moths are seen spray thor-
oughly with lib. of active D.D.T.
in at least 40 gals, of water an
acre. This will ensure protection
for two to three weeks.
Be sure to spray undersides of
plants. Booms fitted with drop-
arms will facilitate this. Con-
tinue these measures so long as
moths are about and weather
conditions persist which are
likely to encourage them.
Linseed-bran
“Farmer Bill”: The oil-con-
tent of linseed-bran is almost
double that of linseed-meal and
is 10 per cent, higher than ordi-
nary bran ; protein and carbo-
hydrates contents are also high.
The extra oil does not act as
a laxative, but is absorbed into
the animal’s system.
Given about 51b. of linseed-
bran a day, a milking-cow im-
proves in health and milk- and
butter-production increases. A
handful of salt improves the
flavor. An equal part of bone-
flour makes up for any mineral
deficiency. Mixed with milk it
is good for calves. Horses do
well on it. An addition of 25 per


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
tmm
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
f
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
f
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane. . „
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Taa.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
BRAND Of PHENOTHIA2INE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
THE EFFECT OF PARASITES ON THE PRODUCTION
OF MILK BY EWES
WORMY EWE
Poor milk supply Lamb is
undernourished^
f
WORM FREE EWE
Gives up to 60% more milk
Lamb is fat and healthy.
A
USE THENOVIS’, the most effective drench, *o
ensure an adequate supply of milk for young lambs.
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey as a
simple story the results of many years of research. Acknowledg-
ment Is made to many research workers whose results have been
published in the Australian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
PHE. I7X. 4112'
cent, to 50 per cent, of it to the
chaff of draught-horses provides
3, well-balanced ration at low
cost.
Mixed with skim-milk or
other meals, linseed-bran is good
pig-feed. For mucilage, stir boil-
ing water or milking-machine
vvashings into it, let it stand all
night and feed the next day.
Sprinkled with water it is a
palatable mash.
Tailoring Plants
“Zoot”: Research with
chemical growth-regulators is
making them perform many
tricks in addition to their main
use as selective weedicides.
One of the latest possibilities
is to keep shrubs around the
home from making too tall a
growth. According to the
strength, quantity and frequency
of use of the growth-regulator,
shrubs or trees may be made to a
tailored or measured growth.
Garden Humus
“Sarina”: Leaf-mould makes
good garden humus, and here in
North Queensland it may be
gathered anywhere, though it is
not so good when collected from
under tamarind or other highly-
acid-frufting trees. Lantana and
scrub-growth provide the best.
Dig it into heavy soils some
time before planting, but keep
it out of holes intended for
shrubs. It may tend to hinder
drainage, or lead to air-pockets
in the soil, letting the plant’s
roots dry out. But it is very
useful as a surface mulch for
shrubs and later it will rot down.
It is especially good for
deepening and enriching poorly-
drained soils. One drawback is
that it encourages slugs and
snails, but these are easily con-
trolled with methaldehyde.
Dog Ticks
“Bill C.”: Ticks cause no
paralysis until they have been
attached for some four days. By
that time a tick that was a flat,
dark brown, hard-bodied insect
has become a bloated, bluish-
grey thing. Often enough there's
a small tick attached near by,
ready to carry on after its parent
drops off.
Once every two days go over
any dog that hunts through
northern grassy or scrubby
country. The ticks get in the
throat, behind the ears and under
the belly, sometimes between the
paws. They’re dangerous any-
where, but especially when
lodged behind the ears or under
the jaw.
A freshly-embedded tick may
be pulled off, but a “full” tick
must be destroyed with kerosene
or turps. Or separate the body
from the head with a razor-blade
without squeezing the “bag.” It
doesn’t matter if the head stays
attached to the victim ; it will
soon drop off.
Sometimes a dog will not show
any large ticks, but will show
scores of tiny grass-ticks, gener-
ally under the belly, and in
the eyelids. In such cases dust
him with insect - powder
frequently. Grass-ticks are not
dangerous, but are very irritating.
Australian Diesel
“Wester”: The International
Super AWD-6 (42 drawbar h.p.
diesel tractor) was developed in
Australia, and is the fourth
model of a new line introduced
by International in the past few
months; all made at Geelong
(Vic.). Its engine is a departure
from the conventional in that it
starts directly on diesel fuel.
Like the others of the new line,
it operates with newly-developed
systems of mounted threc-point-
linkage equipment, and trails
implements hydraulically con-
trolled from the tractor-seat.
The hydraulic remote-control
enables control from the
tractor-seat of lifting and lower-
ing, angling and de-angling and
other field adjustments to trail-
ing implements.
About Saws
“Spes”: Two saws are essential
for the farm tool-kit —24in. or
26in. handsaw, with eight teeth
to the inch (the best all-rounder),
and a good tenon-saw, Min.
long, with the finest teeth avail-
able. Buy good saws —they are
worth the extra shillings. Keep
them clean and oiled, hang them
up when not in use, and these
two saws will cover all farm
carpentry, right down to well-
fitting joints.
Sawdust Floor
“K.A.”: There are some strong
arguments against concrete
floors in poultry-houses, apart
from initial expense; but a
couple of inches of sawdust on
earth absorbs the moisture (which
causes many diseases) and it is
always being scratched over, thus
eliminating packing and smell.
The temperature remains more
even, decomposition being slowed
up. Rats cannot burrow beneath,
and in wet weather the fowls
remain cleaner.
If disease does break out the
whole can be shovelled out and
burnt. All the same, the manure,
unless handled correctly, loses
some of the fertilising- and
market-value —but as most farms
regard it as incidental to egg-
production this is of minor
importance.
Hints for the Farm
“Siten”: Advice from a Dairy-
Shorthorn breeder to prevent
milk-fever: Give a pint of
linseed-oil before and after calv-
ing. Let the calf suck all it will,
and don’t milk for two or three
days unless the calf is weak.
“Ninety-nine”: Ordinary oil-
base paint will not stand up to
regular scrubbing and washing,
as on the walls of the separator-
room. Enamel is the best. If the
walls are fibro-cement, they must
be sealed before being enamelled.
“Headgate”: If you’re going
in for pigs decide whether to
produce porkers or baconers and
then select the breeding stock
accordingly. Type is more
important than breed, as off-types
of any breed will not give the
results got from correct types.
Where possible, inspect the
parents of stock under considera-
tion as breeders, for if the desired
characteristics are present in
them as well as in their offspring
it heightens the prospect of those
characters appearing in the next
generation.
“Ninety-nine”: The oils in
butterfat have the same effect on
rubber as does mineral-oil. So
butterfat must not be allowed to
soak into the rubber parts of
milking-machines. All the
rubber-ware should be placed in
a hessian-bag once a week and
suspended in a solution of boiling
water and caustic-soda for 10
minutes. Remove and brush the
parts through in a solution of
hot soda-ash or washing-soda and
rinse in clean water.
“W. Court”: Insect-repellents
containing dimethyl phtchalate
or similar solvents will dissolve
plastic or nylon articles if
allowed to touch them. A good
mosquito-repellent for fishermen
is a mixture of olive-oil and
kerosene.
“J.J.G.”: Most heat-wave
deaths in poultry are of laying
hens. This suggests that the stress
to which birds are subject during
egg-laying, coupled with the heat
in nest-boxes, is too much. The
nests should be large and roomy
and constructed to prevent
crowding. The inside tempera-
ture of the poultry-house can be
reduced about 4deg. by white-
washing the outer walls and roof.
This isn’t much, but it does give
added comfort to hens in hot
weather.
“Wilco”; The beauty of a plot
of spring- or summer-flower-
ing bulbs is greatly increased if,
after the bulbs have been set,
seedlings of phlox, statice,
linaria, etc., are planted between
them. The dwarf plants will
cover the ground with greenery
and flowers, and the bulbs will
grow up and carry their flowers
above them.
“Baroona”: Broccoli is picked
when the green buds form, and
should be used as soon as
possible after it comes from the
garden. Do not cut off all one
plant, but leave some for making
further growth. It will go on
producing for some time.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The important cyclical l tropical impulses of early
February have given splendid rains in both the tropical
coast and the monsoonal tracks. Another rain is due about
end of February, probably in the form of thunderstorms.
In Sydney there has been “Queen’s weather,’’ as was
forecast, the preceding rains being curtailed by the absence
of sunspots. Sydney should have some minor showers for
the rest of the month, with nothing important unless part
of the rains due at the opening of the mlonth become trans-
ferred by the now-uncertain sunspot factor.
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the 8.W.T.C.?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
Come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Dead Heart
The Woomera country (B. 23/12/’53)
is not real desert as South Australians
understand the term; it’s kindergarten
stuff compared with the Lake Eyre Basin.
The last time I went through the strip
of gibber and sandhill which lies between
Woomera and Lake Torrens there had
been no rain at all for the year. That, of
course, was not a drought—just a tem-
porary dry spell. There was no feed in
the sandhills, but bush was thriving on the
hard country, and so were the sheep.
Further east, in the same latitude on
the other side of the lake, are the
Flinders Ranges and the township of
Hawker. Hawker has an average annual
rainfall of nearly 12 inches. This would
probably convince those diagnosticians
of B. 23/12/’53 and 27/1/’54 that the
country is eminently suited for growing
wheat. But Hawker has been tried and
found wanting as a granary, and the
fault doesn’t lie in the soil.
Further north, around Marree and
Lake Eyre, the average rainfall is mapped,
cautiously, as “below five inches.” In
many cases it must be very far below.
Here is the real “dead heart” —a land
of no reliable or predictable rain, a land
where the air is unbelievably dry in the
blaze of summers, when weeks of above
the century are normal, and a land, too, of
bitterly cold winter days. The average
annual evaporation here is listed at over
90 inches.
Assume, then, that to grow a good crop
of wheat you need 18 inches of rain
under an average annual evaporation of
between 40 and 50 inches. Now work
out how much water it would take to
irrigate one acre of land at Marree to get
a comparable concentration of soil-
moisture.
When you’ve finished marvelling at the
total gallonage, work out just how much
of that water will vanish into the air in
the 90in. annual evaporation. Then con-
sider how much soil-salts this mass of
vaporising water will leave at or near the
surface of your land.
Desert soils are, typically, “young”
soils; they don’t show the well-marked
horizons seen in well-watered lands, and
they’re rich in mineral content. It is
foolish to thihk that they would need
supplementing with various minerals out
of a bag, with the exception, perhaps, of
phosphorus, in which all our soils are
liable to be deficient.
We have reclaimed great areas of for-
merly useless land in S.A. by the use of
trace-elements. But such areas were com-
posed of soils with a present or recent
history of high rainfall. The podsol soils
of the Adelaide hills, until recently re-
garded as useless, are actually skeleton
soils; under the influence of super-
"You can't tell ME the atom-bomb isn't affecting the Weather."
abundant rain their- minerals have been
largely leached away. Such impoverished
lands obviously need mineral replace-
ment. In the {rue deserts the reverse is
the case.
The Murray irrigation areas, with an
evaporation of 50-odd inches on the
average, have had salt-accumulation
problems enough. Given heavily mineral-
ised soils and almost double that evapo-
ration any possibility of a succession of
crops seems very doubtful.
Somewhere in the future we may find
the answer to our desert problems. But
the answer will come from the slow
accumulation of knowledge gathered in
the area itself. Adelaide University has
been for years carrying out just such re-
search on Koonamore station, in “good”
saltbush country. The answer will never
come from some enthusiast who has
merely read a book or made a journey
through the Centre. — Propalong (S.A.).
A “Tenth-rate” University
According to Sir John Newman-Morris,
chairman of the Medical Board, Mel-
bourne University is considered inter-
nationally to be tenth-rate because it is
practically the only university of renown
in the English-speaking world that lacks
full-time Professors of Medicine and of
Surgery. He wants the Chairs apparently
because, unless it has professors, a uni-
versity is considered tenth-rate, although
without professors Melbourne University
produces first-rate, graduates, world-
renowned for their skill.
Although Melbourne has the oldest
Medical School in Australia, the train-
ing of students in clinical medicine —
teaching at the patient’s bedside—is done
as a side-issue by busy working physicians
and surgeons. Might not these busy
working doctors be the best teachers?
Having direct and constant practice and
acquaintance with their subject, wouldn’t
they bring fresher minds into the class-
room than a professor who, however
experienced and noted, has withdrawn
from practice and is solely concerned
with teaching?
So, even if the “tenth-rate” Melbourne
University can’t approach the Rocke-
feller Foundation or similar organisations
for funds, as can a university which has
a Professor of Clinical Medicine, it may
be better off from the point of view of
teachers than the universities which are
classed as “first-rate.” Sir John New-
man-Morris is himself a product of the
Melbourne system, and not a bad one. —-
Pawang (Vic.).
In Defence of Age
A retiring-age for politicians, as sug-
gested by Queensland A.W.U. president
Bukowski, would deprive the country of
many still capable of giving it good
service.
Age and senility are by no means
synonymous. The two most impressive
political figures in Western Europe today,
Churchill and Adenauer, are both in the
vicinity of 80. France was led to victory
in World War I by Clemenceau, who was
76 when he formed his Ministry in 1917.
Lord Palmerston became Prime Minister
of England at 75, at the height of the
Crimean War, and with one short inter-
val (1858-59) held the post till his death
10 years later. Gladstone conducted his
famous “Midlothian campaign” when
over 70, then held the Premiership for
five years. He formed his last Ministry
in 1892 when over 80. Australia’s W.
M. Hughes was mentally alert right to
the end of his long life.
Cases can be cited of soldiers who
were successful commanders in the late
60’s or older, and notable literary work
has come from people in their 70’s and
80’s.
W. H. Hudson produced virtually all
his work, including his best, after he was
40, and his brilliant reminiscences of the
Argentine, Far Away and Long Ago,
was written when he had passed 80. One
of the leading Russian authors of the
19th century, Sergei Aksakoff (1791-
1859), was another striking case in point;
it was not until 1846, when he was 55,
that he published the first volume of his
masterpiece, The Family Chronicle, trans-
lated into English as A Russian Gentle-
man. The other two volumes came out
in 1856 and 1858, respectively, the last
only a few months before his death at
68.
Aksakoff was fortunate in his English
translator, J. D. Duff, who admirably
preserved the flavor of Aksakoff’s inimit-
ably limpid style. Yet Duff, an old man
himself when he made the translation.
did not take up the study of Russian
until he had reached middle-age. —
Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Flvmtr rwtor
r
I should think the ideal aircraft for
the Flying Doctor Service (B. 13/1/’54)
would be the single-engined DH Beaver
I saw at the British Farnborough display,
It has a remarkably short take-off and
“Oh, Octis! I've been longing to get my eight arms around you!”
landing run; it is easily and cheaply
maintained and should reduce costs
considerably.
Much has been written about heli-
copters for the service, but initial main-
tenance and cost would be a lot more
than what costs are now.
There have also been suggestions
about using DC.3’s, but, good as they
are, the minimum strip required for them
by regulations is just under 5000 ft. And
that’s hardly the thing for saving the life
of, say, an injured drover or stockman
in the Gulf and channel country, which
abound with claypans a few hundred
yards across. — Arthur Lowe (Q.fi
- T "4*. ' - -
A.B.C. Fees
News-readers (B. 27/1/’54) aren’t the
only underpaid servants of the A.B.C.
One I know—an expert in his own field—
was approached by the commission to
arrange and take part in a feature pro-
gramme, He spent six hours at their
studios, rehearsing, recording, editing and
compering. He was paid 255.
For such fees the A.B.C. cannot expect
to get other than slick artists who rush
their work, or else it must take work
from people who wouldn’t stand a
chance elsewhere.
If the commission is so short of cash,
why doesn’t it leave the fight-entertain-
ment field to the commercials? If its
present charter won’t allow that, the
charter should be amended.
It would be much better for the A.B.C.
to cater fully for worth-while minority
tastes than to attempt feeble imitations
of programmes that are much better
handled elsewhere — Peers (Tas.).
London Exchange-rate
Chancellor of the British Exchequer
R. A. Butler has emphasised that Britain
is trying to build the British Common-
wealth into the strongest unit the world
has seen, and without outside aid. This,
he said, would permit sterling once again
to look the dollar in the face and permit
freedom of exchange, as in the old days.
Noble words, but it will be a long time
before the poor old Australian pound is
able to look the pound sterling in the
face. Jet alone the U.S.A. dollar, which
is now quoted at a little more than two
for our depreciated pound. It is high
time our money had greater purchas-
ing-power not only out of Australia, but
inside it as well. Pious exhortations to
trade and travel within the British Com-
monwealth are more likely to be followed
if our pound is worth 20 shillings
wherever we go or trade.
We suffer from a surfeit of so-called
financial experts, economists and the like;
yet the artificial rate of 25 per cent, im-
posed way back in the ’thirties to help
farmers is still retained. Allowing that
prices for farm stuff were then so low
as to warrant the rate, the time has long
since passed when a readjustment should
have been made.
Don’t the experts recognise that fact?
Surely they must; yet nothing is done.
The thing is inflationary in the extreme,
and affects the lives of every one of us.
“Leading financial experts” can meet and
talk until they are blue in the face, but
they are wasting their time unless they
are prepared to allow a few natural
economic laws to operate.
Visitors to New Zealand and Britain
soon discover that they are penalised
to the tune of 25 per cent, because there
is no corresponding saving in prices to
warrant the high cost of sterling to us.
If one could walk round London and
buy for 15s. sterling the same quantity of
goods as one can buy in Australia for
our pound, then it would not matter so
much. That, however, is not the case.
If Mr. Butler wants freedom of ex-
change as in “the good old days,” as
he put it, the sooner he and his fellow-
experts take steps to unpeg it the better
for all concerned. — Ceg (Vic.).
Ukrainian Minority
Unreported in any daily paper was the
celebration in Sydney on January 16 of
Ukrainian Independence Day.
Well over 1000 people, representing
half the Ukrainian population of the
metropolitan area, as well as delegations
from such communities as Czechoslo-
vakian, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian,
Lithuanian, Polish, Slovak, Byelorussian
and Bulgarian, were present. The func-
tion took the form of a concert by New
(Ukrainian) Australians and was well up
to Sydney Town Hall standard.
Speeches in Ukrainian by V. Solovi)
and in English by V. Bilajiv were excep-
tionally well-received. The Ukrainian
was not comprehensible to me, but the
English in the simple diction made me
ashamed that we had permitted the war
to end without an inviolate pledge that
Poland and the other neighboring coun-
tries of Russia should have the right to
self-determination.
To hear the simple story of how 40
million people, enslaved from 1922 until
1941 by the Russians, and then again
until 1944 by the Germans, and since
then enslaved again by the Russians,
made me feel sick at heart.
It is interesting to record that, accord-
ing to the latest census figures, only 9-
million of the estimated population of
202 million in the U.S.S.R. are ethno-
logically Russian. The Ukrainians,
Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians, Georg-
ians, Armenians and Finns, to mention
only a few of the better-known racial
groups, have, in the past, enjoyed
national independence. In fact, with some
of them, their civilisation is as old as
many of the well-established nations of
Europe. It is apparent that the present
Government of the U.S.S.R. has outdone
the empire established by the Tsars in its
repression of minorities and its centrali-
sation of dictatorial power.
Even if we are unable to help the
Ukrainians and their groups tangibly,
surely we owe it to them to be informed
as to the problem of their enslavement
and of the growing strength of their
organisation in Australia and other
countries. —E. D. Darby, M.LA
(N.S.W.).
Si


the fear of Rulago had entered
the bellies of them all and
become a factor in the leading
and control of the tribe.
Now, when the signs began
to tell him how the people
thought, and he knew that he
was about to become a hunted
one, Rulago went every day to
the rock at the junction of the
Sasato and the Buasi, and stood
high against the sky on the
cliff-top facing the whirlpools
that boiled away from the rivers’
meeting; and he made his sing-
sing every afternoon as the sun
was setting. And when he
raised his right hand with the
carrying-bag of seeds he shouted,
and when he raised his left the
smell of the charms in the bag
spread through the forest, and
people said “That is the magic
of Rulago.”
And soon they all knew very
well that Rulago made his magic
on the stone between the rivers.
One afternoon when all the
warriors were together they
heard the sing-sing and they
smelled the smell very close, and
they followed down the bank of
the Sasato, and they saw Rulago
on top of the stone with his
back to the land and his face
to the water of the rivers, and
the bag with his charms raised
high in his left hand, and the
tools for working the garden at
his feet.
They spread quietly across all
the landward approaches to the
rock, and crept forward to the
very edge of cover, and still
Rulago did not move nor turn
round. When all the men were
ready Farapo, the young man,
the big man, the fastest of all
the people, leapt up the rock,
and they thought he had taken
Rulago, but Rulago turned and
held him.
When all the men saw this
they rushed forward to help
Farapo and to bind Rulago and
to take him as he was back to
the people. But as they reached
him Rulago twisted free and
leapt like a bird from the rock
and plunged beneath the whirl-
pool at the base of the rock and
was gone.
FI after years Farapo swore
that an eagle came and took
Rulago from him, and of the
others some said that Rulago
himself was the eagle and
changed before their eyes. For
from that dizzy rock this was
all they saw of Rulago, whom
they feared: a movement in the
air and the great bulk of a
mighty man against the sky,
then only the line of whirlpools
at the rivers’ joining.
But they stood there and
smelled the strong smell of the
charms, and at their feet they
saw the two bags that Pulago
had fashioned from the twine,
and they emptied these out
amongst the rocks, first one and
then the other touching them,
and drawing back, then talking
like a man in council while they
waited for others to finger the
bags.
Agola the headman took the
bags by the butt, first one and
then the other, and emptied
them where everyone could see.
And in one bag was all manner
of seeds for planting in the gar-
den, and bulbs of taro, and the
jointed stems of vines. And in
the other were the charms for
planting, and the strong urgent
smell of them was proof they
were the true charms, and the
warriors rejoiced because they
knew at last they had taken the
secret of the garden.
So they grew their gardens
and worked hard ; and the fear
of foodlessness was gone from
them, and the elders had to bring
new fears to the aid of govern-
ment. Their gardens were bigger
than the gardens Rulago had set
for them, and the food they grew
was better, and the yams were
bigger, and the plantains softer,
and the sugar sweeter, and they
were proud because they had
taken this secret from the mighty
Rulago.
And of Rulago there is only
the stone in the Sasato River,
and a little song they sing at
planting-time in the gardens;
but this is a thing greater than
it seems, and Rulago was long
ago content.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “The Gasometer,”
... Adam McCay, published in the
JJjer half of 1914.—5716.
fo buy or borrow copy of “The
Australasian Post” for Nov. 12,
j9f3. —5715.
fo buy copy of Macleod of The
Bulletin, by Mrs. William Macleod.
*5713.
Man, wife and two children want
./rent furnished or unfurnished flat
. r cottage, north side of Harbor,
Sydney.— 5714.
Words of poem beginning: —
ojiiy Giller had a cottage in a little
’ 'one-horse town
0ere there lived a missionary, well,
we’ll call him Mr. Brown,
was working up the circuit which
was deep in debt and sin.
—5718.
fo buy copy of “Everybody’s
Weekly” for November 22, 1952.
To buy copy of Who Rides, by
Grave. —5720.
Information Sought
History of the Union Steam Ship
Co.’s ship Maheno, which was
wrecked on Fraser Island, Queens-
land, in 1935?
Maheno was built at Dumbarton
(Scotland) in 1905 by William Denny
and Bros. She was a triple-screw,
direct-turbine-driven vessel of 5282
tons gross register. She went from
the builder’s yard to New Zealand
a-d entered the trade between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. She was
employed in this trade throughout her
whole life with the exception of the
World War I period, when she was
a hospital ship in the service of the
N.Z. military forces. Her turbines
were found to be extravagant, and,
in 1912, new turbines were fitted and
fte ship was converted to twin-screw
geared-turbine drive. She was sold
to Japanese buyers for breaking up
in 1935 and was towed from Sydney
by the Oonah for the voyage to
Japan. The tow-line carried away
during a cyclone off the South
Queensland coast and the vessel
drifted ashore on Fraser Island two
or three days later, where she re-
mained hard and fast, despite efforts
to refloat her. The towing vessel
proceeded to Japan to procure the
necessary labor and equipment and
returned to Fraser Island, where
Maheno was broken up on the spot
and the material salvaged and loaded
into the Oonah for transport to
Japan.
« * * *
Is it correct that Sir Arthur Sulli-
van was responsible for the release
of many Schubert compositions pre-
viously unavailable ? What are the
facts ?
After Schubert’s death many of his
compositions lay around unpublished,
often unknown, in various musty
vaults and attics in Vienna. In 1838
Schumann found the dusty manu-
script of the C major symphony and
took it back to Leipzig, and had it
published there. In 1867 Sullivan
and Sir George Grove, editor of the
authoritative A Dictionary of Music
and Musicians, went to yienna in
search of supposedly missing Schu-
bert MSS. Their trip was eminently
successful. They found seven sym-
phonies, the “Rosamunde” music,
some Masses and operas, chamber
works and a quantity of miscel-
laneous pieces and songs, none of
which had been previously published.
This success aroused at the time a
renewed interest in Schubert’s music.
Grove wrote an account of the suc-
cessful search in an English trans-
lation of the work of Heinrich
Kreissle von Hellborn, the bio-
grapher of Schubert. There is also
reference to it in the Encyclopedia
hritannica and the International
Cyclopedia of Music and Musicians.
When I bought an aneroid baro-
meter, I was told to tap the dial
before reading. 1 understood that
only a mercury barometer should be
tapped, and that an aneroid could
be damaged by a slight jolt. Is it
necessary or desirable to tap an
aneroid ?
A correctly-functioning barometer,
either mercurial or aneroid, should
not require tapping. However, any
instrument which depends on a series
of levers and pivots may bind or
become stuck, and it has become
customary to tap the glass of a
recording-instrument gently so that
one may be assured that the move-
ment is free. If, in particular, an
aneroid barometer is flicked without
force there should be no damage
done. However, it should not be
necessary to do this if the instrument
is in good order and correctly
adjusted.
* * * *
(i) Is the cooee the genuine call
of the aborigine? (2) Is it universal
to all tribes ?
(1) and (2) As far as we can dis-
cover, yes. E. E. Morris ( Austral
English, 1898) describes “cooee” as
an aboriginal word which has been
incorporated unchanged in the Eng-
lish language. The dictionaries say
that it is a cry used by the aborigines
as a signal or to attract attention.
Most experts who have written about
aboriginal tongues and dialects do
not list “cooee” in the vocabularies
of the various tribes they deal with.
There are, of course, about as many
abo. languages or distinct dialects as
there are tribes. The same words
and sounds appear in very many of
them, even in those of tribes living
very far apart, and in many respects
most of the languages are very
similar. There is every reason to
think that “cooee” is a universal
call,
« * * *
( 1 ) Some information on the State
Shipping Service ( W.A.)? (2) Do the
ships carry passengers ?
(1) It has five vessels, and trades
between Fremantle and 13 northern
ports, as far round as Darwin. The
five ships are the Koolinda, Kybra,
Kabbarli (the most modern of them),
Dorrigo and Dulverton. In 1952 the
line handled 15,000 more tons of
cargo than in 1951, 102,000 tons in
all (a record). The service provides
an essential link between the south
and north of W.A. Southward car-
goes are made up principally of wool,
cattle and sheep, frozen meat, ores,
ox- and buffalo-hides, fertiliser and
whaling-industry products. North-
ward cargoes include anything and
everything. In 1952 revenue reached
a total of £587,491, an increase of
£89,000 on the previous year, but a
subsidy of £451,014 was needed to
meet expenses. (2) Most of the ships
carry passengers.
Brief Answers
H.G.: Jimmy Clabby and Tommy
Uren met ten times. Uren won six
times on points, Clabby three times.
Their other clash resulted in a draw.
~.. P.T. : Dig over the plot and
leave it in lumpy condition to sweeten
with sun and wind for at least two
weeks; then give a heavy treatment
of agricultural lime (about 6oz. to
the square yard). Then let the ground
lie fallow for at least three months.
P.T.: Prune the plants back to
two sets of “eyes” in March or
early April. If that doesn’t force
them to bloom they are not worth
bothering about... .L.G.P.: Write
Secretary, Sydney Mechanics’ School
of Arts, 275 c Pitt-street, Sydney....
F.A.W.: From Topic Publications
Box 1911, G.P.0., Sydney; and
Gaston C. Renard, Box 5295, G.P.0.,
Melbourne... .R.McD.: The cocka-
too-parrot or quarrion ( Leptolophus
hollandicus), known to bird-fanciers
as the cockatiel, is the sole member
of the family Leptolophidce. It is
common in inland Australia, feed-
ing on seeds of grasses and herbage.
As it has a crest it has been regarded
as a relative of the cockatoos, but is
probably more nearly related to the
parrakeets.—H.R.: The term
“brachycepbalic” is applied to skulls
the breadth of which is more than
eight-tenths of the length. The heads
of most individuals of civilised races
are brachycepbalic, and the develop-
ment of width in comparison with,
length in the skull has been generally
taken to indicate increasing brain-
development. .. .M.J.; Easter Sunday
is always the first Sunday after the
full moon which happens upon or
next after March 21. If the full moon
falls on a Sunday, Easter Sunday is
the Sunday after. Church of Eng-
land Prayer Book contains tables by
which Easter can be calculated up to
the year 2199... .W.D.W.: Edwin
Abbey, the Shakspearian illustrator,
was born in Philadelphia in 1832,
and died in Chelsea in 1911. He
was elected a Royal Academician in
1898, and was the leader of the
school of decorative painters in Eng-
land. He painted a very famous
series of mural panels for the Boston
Public Library. His Shakspearian
illustrations were pen-drawings of
outstanding skill and charm, made
for Harper Bros.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
S.H.G.: Neatly told, but we’re
afraid it’s been done too often
R. It seems a lot of pessimism
to crowd into four pages K.F.:
We have never met that sort of gipsy
maid H. 8.: Sympathise with your
hard-worked dominie, but cannot
canonise him in our pages N.C.:
Despite all your sweating at the
pump you produced only a trickle.
... iF.R.: There’s a good tale hidden
there —you failed to bring it to light.
... ,T.D.: Boil the opening four
pages down to one and strengthen
the ending....A.G.: So they’re still
raffling that dead horse in Maori-
land!... .C.E.; We threw the towel
in half-way through the boxing-tale.
... .C.8.A.: Rambles on confusedly;
also, give us stories with an Austra-
lian setting P.D.: Cease firing-in
stories written in faint pencil....
S. Story of demented China-
man throwing cabbages at Salvation
Army officer resolutely declined
GJ.: It has been going the rounds
ever since the first Israelite set-up in
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
the pawnbroking game W.AJ.:
Somebody put a jellyfish in some-
body else’s bed and you take 4000
words to record the occurrence
A.D.: You’re right; yours is a
“totally inexperienced hand”....
W.K.: You are much too morbidly
inclined for one so young....
Not the sort that glides into
print M.F.: We can’t quite
swallow it S.M.: It is a long
time since we encountered anything
quite so bald and unappetising
R.K.: Presume the moral is that
flappers who wear red swim-suits
deserve to become shark-bait
M.L.: Take away the scenery and
there is nothing left... .E.D.P.: A
little trimming and pruning would
do a world of g00d... .N.N.: The
story of the Digger in the harem
left us c01d... .H.J.: Thanks for
the covering letter of five pages tell-
ing us what class of stories we should
publish W.N.: Has no discover-
able humor or literary merit....
J.M.G.; Disorderly ranting wont
solve any of the world’s problems.
E.C.A.: That cadger has visited
us in many guises G.E.K.: As
soon as we read there was a nice
young man next door we knew she
would catch him... .J.T.M.: Tell
your story straightforwardly. No
saloon-bar customer would spin it
your fashion... .H.L.: Don’t know
what you’re driving at, though we
suspect you dislike women who
smoke... .F.G.: All moss-grown....
L.M.: What have we done to have
the world’s oldest parrot-profanity
story sent to us? E.8.J.; Your
calm certainty that we would publish
them almost stunned us into doing
it S.K.; Your stuff would be
vastly better if you took more time
over it....J.H.D.: Too obvious that
the curios would turn out to be
faked 8.P.: Four adjectives to
every noun is overdoing it....
5.P.8.: Three reasons for rejection
are weak plot, poor characterisation
and unconvincing dialogue. Also, the
long descriptions of scenery are un-
necessary, and the typing is shock-
ing F.M.G.: Trip-to-Mars yarn
tripping back to Kalgoorlie.. • •
M.C.: Could see Aunt Marthas
prospective husband long before he
popped the question H.M.:
Grandpa’s adventures in Kings
Cross of no interest outside his
family circle... .C.E.: Statement that
you “haven’t very much style and
know little about life” unreservedly
accepted...-L.8.: Once in a while
you manage to produce a coherent
sentence... .V.S.: “Should this story
be published I would like it to
appear under a nom de plume since
I do not want my boss to know that
I was the author.” The contingency
doesn’t arise.... Y.M.: Breaking
stones is light and pleasant work
compared with reading such prose.
B.A.: Beery old husband—young
and saintly wife —noble intruder-
entanglement. No thanks.... J.D.H.:
You may be a good peacemaker,
but you’re a very poor stbrymaker.
J.S.F.: If you want cheques,
learn to write.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 265
Across
I— and O. artist who let out all
our afflictions? (7)
4—Shape to change in a place for
refreshments. (7)
B—Negro to stroll in a famous
wheat town. (9)
fe-Sungod goes to New Jersey be-
fore I finish off an Indian bat.
(5)
ll Glassy wit in the back of my
eye. (8, 6)
J3—Swallow French in Carpentaria
perhaps. (6)
14 Such a peninsula shingles mine.
(8)
!g—Female renegade on the famous
cabinet personality. (8)
19— Girl has two items of attire. (6)
23—Robert’s even air (anagram). (14)
2s—Her face launched a thousand
ships. (5)
2(s —Large eight-footer introduces a
sailor to an inland Russian city.
(9>
27 —You are in a tree appreciated by
many. (7)
2g—Screen’s misrepresented braziers.
C7>
Down
1 — Cowslip occupant what is
knocked about in ice-hockey?
(4)
2 Stringing-up no zero chant. (7)
3 England makes one pound one
to leg. (6)
4 You ship an affirmative form
invented by Montaigne. (3, 5)
5 Agnes encompassing a field
touching the bottom. (7)
6 Hop once in the eggery. (7)
7 Clerical gentleman and I with
mercery that clerical gentlemen
don’t often wear as matters of
precedence. (10)
9—March before it. (5)
12 —Banner on a vessel what
cleans-up the films? (10)
15 —Who hurts Moses and Miriam,
two Australian entertainers? (8)
17— Wrap-up. (7)
18 — A Dr. Lane upset over the
kidney. (7)
20 — A land right from another land.
(5)
21 — Weight certain to follow this
monastic haircut. (7)
22 — Put headgear on Richard like a
goat. (6)
24— Mad willows turn pink. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 264


4 Elementary, my dear Watson, for get-away
its fib'll the best!'
IK
a* t
0
mm
r/M
R4<*4s
: i ;:: : ::»
a*
W
iffP:
o*v
'
sIiSIS
as
■? --Pl-T x
'Ai •: / :
p
[7
*■ / ' i
£
fcSSSS
:■ X :
|9SJ
COR
■
••»X-;sV<i>:.:v;v.
«7S
****&>
m
V
m
r AM ~
INDEPENDENT
i^v
W:W>
SERVICE STATION
Yes, it’s true •*
‘There’s something about
C.O.R that everybody likes’
Fill up at. . .
And use
ENERGOL
the oil that is
RECOMMENDED
BY ROLLS-ROYCE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
