

THE HOUSE
w
c
SEP P E
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
WOOL AWAY!
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3859
Wednesday, January 27, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
LONDON’S CORNER FOR SEADOGS: NATIONAL MARITIME MUSEUM
GREENWICH OBSERVATORY, overlooking the Thames, five miles east
of London Bridge, is universally known as the time-centre of the world.
In addition, the metropolitan Borough of Greenwich is also widely known
for- its possession of Greenwich Hospital, one of the finest examples ot
riverside architecture in London. This magnificent group of buildings,
designed by Wren and built during the reign of William 111, now houses
the Royal Naval College and the National Maritime Museum. These stand
on a terrace nearly three hundred yards long, and in the background is the
beautiful Queen’s House, a fine example of the Palladium style of architecture.
This small palace, designed by Inigo Jones, was completed in 1635 for
Henrietta Maria, Queen of Charles I.
As far back as the reign of Edward I (1272-1307) there was a royal
palace at Greenwich, but it was not until the reign of Henry VII (1485-1509)
that Placentia, as the palace was then called, became chief royal residence
in London. Its famous days really began with Henry VIII, who was born
there: it was there that he married Catherine of Aragon, the wife he cast
off, and Anne of Cleves, the wife he did not want. His daughters Mary and
Elizabeth, who were to reign after him, were both born at Placentia. .During
Henry VIII’s reign the palace was the scene of pageants and festivities on
a magnificent scale, and it was during a May Day tournament at Greenwich
that Anne Boleyn, unmindful that Henry was watching, sealed her late y
dropping a handkerchief for Sir Thomas Wyatt to pick up It was at Green-
wich that Queen Elizabeth I signed the death-warrant of Mary Queen ot
Scots, and it was there that Sir Walter Raleigh laid his cloak over a pudd e
so that the Queen might pass dryshod.
Greenwich Hospital derived its name from the decision of Queen Mary
to turn the palace into a hospital for seamen, and, although it no longer
serves this purpose, the title still remains. The National Maritime Museum,
which occupies much of the space in this palatial building, possesses the
finest collection of sea-pictures and ship-models in the world. Here can be
seen relics o£ Captain Cook, Sir John Franklin, Sir Francis Diake and,
most important of all, the Nelson exhibits, which include the uniloim he
wore at the Battle of Trafalgar.


The Red Page
THE CONQUEST OF EVEREST
Hillary’s story of the last few hundred
yards of Everest, up that grim backbone
of snow between the precipice on one
hand and the overhanging cornices of ice
on the other, should be well enough
known by now; yet there are points
everyone is liable to forget, and one of
considerable importance forgotten by this
reviewer is brought up in the chapter
which Hillary has contributed to Sir
John ■ Hunt’s The Ascent of Everest
(Hodder and Stoughton ; Moore’s Book-
shop); that Hillary and Tenzing (as the
Sherpa likes to spell his name) at one
stage seriously thought of turning
back;
I continued making the trail on up the
ridge, which soon steepened and broadened
into the very formidable snow-face lead-
ing up for the last 400 ft. to the southern
summit. The snow-conditions on this face
were, we felt, distinctly dangerous, but as
no alternative route seemed available, we
persisted in our strenuous and uncomfort-
able efforts to beat a trail up it. We made
frequent changes of lead on this very try-
ing section and on one occasion as I was
stamping a trail in the deep snow a sec-
tion around me gave way and I slipped
back through three or four of my steps.
I discussed with Tenzing the advisability
of going on and he, although admitting
that he felt very unhappy about the snow-
conditions, finished with his familiar phrase,
“Just as you wish.” I decided to go on.
There are some other bits one had
forgotten; that Hillary’s oxygen-supply,
vital to their safe return as well as in
making the climb, ran out just as he
reached their camp on the South Col
where George Lowe was waiting with
emergency-supplies; and the fear that
both Hillary and Tenzing felt all that
day of the danger that must be faced
when, weary and uncertain from the
climb and the height, they would have
to descend that same snow-slope on
which Hillary had slipped on the way
up;
Only one hour [down] from the topi A
swig of sweetened lemonade refreshed us
and we turned down again. Throughout
the climb we had a constant nagging fear
of our return down the great snow-slope,
and as 1 led down it 1 packed each step
with as much care as if our lives depended
on it, as well they might. The terrific
impression of exposure as we looked
straight down onto the Kangshung glacier,
still over 9000 ft. below us, made us move
with the greatest caution, and every step
down seemed a step nearer safety. When
we finally moved off the slope onto the
ridge below, we looked at each other and
without speaking we both almost visibly
shrugged off the sense of fear that had
been with us all day.
There are, too, the grandeur and tran-
quillity of the previous night when the
wind dropped for a while at their last
and highest camp, just below the sum-
mit at 27,900 ft., and Hillary, remind-
ing one of Scott looking at the glowing
mass of Erebus one glorious night in the
Antarctic, looked out at the scene around
them;
At 4 a.m. it was very still. I opened the
tenl door and looked far out across the
dark and sleeping valleys of Nepal. The
icy peaks below us were glowing clearly
in the early morning light and Tenzing
pointed out the Monastery of Thyangboohe,
faintly visible on its dominant spur
16,000 ft. below us. It was an encouraging
thought to realise that even at this early
hour the Lamas of Thyangboche would be
offering up demotions to their Buddhist
gods for our safety and well-being.
Of course everybody will remember the
supreme moments of the adventure, the
exultation on the summit and the anti-
cipation of triumph after Hillary had
wriggled up the narrow gap between the
cliff and the ice when the rock-step
barred their way; but it is a story that
will bear a great deal of re-reading;
Taking advantage of every little rock-
hold and all the force of knee, shoulder
and arms I could muster, I literally
cramponed backwards up the crack, with
a fervent prayer that the cornice would
remain attached to the rock. Despite the
considerable effort involved, my progress
although slow was steady, and as Tenzing
paid-out the rope I inched my way up-
wards until I could finally reach over the
top of the rock and drag myself out of the
crack onto a wide ledge. For a few
moments I lay regaining my breath, and for
the first time really felt the fierce determina-
tion that nothing now could stop us reach-
ing the top. I took a firm stance on the
ledge and signalled to Tenzing to come on
up. As I heaved hard on the rope Tenzing
wriggled his way up the crack and finally
collapsed exhausted at the top like a giant'
fish when it has just been hauled from the
sea after a terrible struggle.
One of the strongest and most pleas-
ing impressions gained from re-reading
this chapter, which is substantially what
has appeared in the newspapers, is how
much Hillary enjoyed his great climb.
Though towards the very end of the
struggle his buoyancy had given way to
a numbed and weary doggedness—soon
to turn to frank delight after the first
relief of actually reaching the journey’s
end —there was nothing of overweariness
and misfcry on the ascent; but on the
contrary, “To my surprise I was enjoy-
ing the climb as much as I had eve
enjoyed a fine ridge on my own Ne
Zealand A1p5”....“1t was a great thri
to look straight down this enormou
rock-face and to see, 8000 ft. below u
the tiny tents of Camp IV in the Wester
Cwm.”
Sir John Hunt’s own story of th
high altitudes gives extra force to th s
account, showing how magnificently fi:
and fitted for their task the successful
climbers must have been ; for the leade
himself, when he came up to the Sout
Col to help establish the final camp anc
to see the two summit-parties on thei
way, frankly. confesses to extreme ex
haustion on more than one occasion:
We fell onto the small level space just
above the tent. My lungs seemed to be
about to burst; I was groaning and fighting
to get enough air, a grim and ghastly ex-
perience in which I had no power of self-
control. But only while it lasted. For, as
had happened lower down in the couloir,
normality came quite suddenly and with it
a desire to go on, an ability to take an
interest in the surroundings....
Just as we were coming down the ice-
pitch above Camp, Temba slipped and fell
into the big crevasse. He was held by
Charles, and Wilf managed to get his sack
off (he was upside-down) and get him up.
It is indicative of my state of exhaustion
that I could not find strength to lift a
finger throughout this incident
And now began a struggle which none of
us is likely to forget. If the wind had
been strong on the Spur, it was terrible
down here. My oxygen had finished be-
fore descending to the Col, and Charles
Evans took oft his set to leave him more
free to work. We were pathetically feeble,
far too weak to compete against that
fiendish gale. For over an hour we fought
and strove with it, playing a diabolical
tug-of-war, trying to put up one single
tent which can be put up in one or two
minutes lower down. All the time the
canvas was being snatched from our hands
and we were being caught in a tangle of
guy-ropes. We staggered about, getting in
each other’s way, anoxic and hopelessly
inadequate to cope with the conditions.
Tom kept his oxygen-set on for a short
time and at first could not understand the
antics of Charles and myself as we rolled
about like drunkards. Once I tripped over
a boulder and lay on my face for five
minutes or so, before I could summon the
strength to get up. But soon Tom’s can-
ister gave out, and then his oxygen-
supply. He, too, fell down and lay,
more-or-less unconscious, on the ground.
So, too, of course, does Sir John reveal
a hundred-and-one details of this great
adventure which have not been made
known through the newspapers.
There are the entertaining suggestions
which were made to the expedition be-
fore leaving England—how they might
shoot their oxygen-bottles towards the
summit like bombs from a trench-
mortar ; or how they might attach a
small balloon to their backs, so that they
could tiptoe to the top as lightly as
ballet-dancers.
There is the lovely landscape of Nepal
with its rhododendrons and magnolias ;
the monastery of Thyangboche, where
the acting-abbot told them a most circum-
stantial story of an Abominable Snow-
man, or yeti, which, about five feet high
and covered with grey fur or hair, came
into the monastery-grounds and had to
be scared away with drums and conches.
Then there is the Everest landscape be-
ginning, with the track up through the
fairyland of ice-pinnacles on the glacier,
crawling on ladder-bridges over crevasses
into one of which tumbled (not fatally)
an ambitious Sherpa cook-boy who
wanted to be a mountaineer ; on to the
great ice-fall like “a gigantic cascade,
pouring in leaping waves and eddies over
submerged boulders towards us,” some-
where beneath which lay a chasm of
unknown depth in which the falling ice-
fragments would “set up a prolonged
rumbling noise accompanied by tremors
on the surface, as if an underground-
train were passing beneath our feet. It
was an eerie and frightening sensation.”
There is a story of a fall, early in the
expedition, when
Ed Hillary had a narrow escape in con.
pany with Tenzing. While descending the
Atom Bomb area he jumped down one of
the several big “steps” dividing crevasses
in that zone of constant movement. The
whole mass of ice on which he landed
collapsed beneath him and he fell towards
a crevasse below. That no harm came of
it was due to the foresight and skill of
Tenzing, who was strongly placed against
a slip on the part of his companion and
held him brilliantly on the rope.
There is an account of a great feat of
endurance by Charles Wylie, shoulder-
ing the load of an exhausted Sherpa and
going on to make camp, carefully stow
the stores and film the scenery after his
oxygen-supply had run out —“Such con-
duct still seems almost unreal.” We
read the full story of the first attempt on
the summit made by members of this
expedition Charles Evans and Tom
Bourdillon reaching the south summit
according to instructions and turning
back regretfully from the final peak
because their oxygen would not last the
distance—the first of men ever to see the
ridge that leads from the south summit
to the top; and we read a good deal
about George Lowe, the other New
Zealander with the party, who with
Alfred Gregory was in support of
Hillary and Tenzing and cheerfully cut
steps in the ice for them up to the final
camp. Though Sir John does not actu-
ally say so, one has the impression that,
had Hillary failed, Lowe might have
been the next man to have a shot at the
summit. One remembers him sitting
cheerfully in a corner at the airport in
Sydney while the pressmen were cluster-
ing around Hillary, asking him imbecile
questions about bee-keeping and offers of
marriage—and nothing at all about
Everest.
The Ascent of Everest is somewhat
top-conscientious a record of every de-
tail of planning and team-work that
secured the success of the expedition to be
outstanding as a work of literature; as,
: . , B in; tt
f ?y ln ! anC c f’ WaS^ H \ y , .
able The Story of Everest, which, cover-
ing everything up to the final triumph,
was reviewed on this page at the time or
Hillary’s success. Sir John Hunt’s book
is rather the basic history from which
future works of literature will be written.
But, apart from its interest and im-
portance as such, it is still a fine book
to read, with many passages of first-class
writing.
Perhaps the best thing about it is that
not only does Sir John record one
supreme adventure but instantly looks
around for the next: Hillary on the top
of Everest found himself looking across
at Makalu, unexplored and unclimbed,
and “conjecturing whether a route up
that mountain might not exist,” and
(apart from the appendices for mountain-
eers) Sir John concludes his book with,
“There is always the moon to reach.”
KELLY AND THE CROW
Where’s John Kelly?
Kelly is lost
In whipstick scrub
And starlight frost.
A crow flew over;
4 Kelly,” he said,
“Flesh and blood
Will soon be dead.
“Follow me, Kelly,”
And away he flew
Where the mirage-water
Met the dew.
The Old Man Plain
Had one wall-eye.
And Kelly followed
The crow’s cry
Of “Kelly, Kelly,
You’ll soon be dead,”
Until he came
To his old bark shed.
Kelly was dipping
The station ewes.
From a ring-barked tree
He heard the crow’s
Cry of "Kelly!
I want some meat.
Drown a sheep, Kelly,
For I must eat.
“Kelly, Kelly,
Drown a sheep
With your wooden crutch
In the narrow dip
“Or I’ll pick your bones
When next you’re lost.”
And he stropped his beak
On a corner post.
But Kelly cried,
“Be damned if I do!
I’ll drown no sheep
For a jumped-up crow;
“And I’ll take good care
I’m not lost again
In whipstick scrub
On the Old Man Plain.”
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Bing Crosby
Bing Crosby’s autobiography, Call Me
Lucky (Muller), is good enough and bad
enough to be his own writing, but one
would not like to be the first to believe
anything that came out of Hollywood.
He was born, says the book, Harry
Crosby, May 30, 1904, in Tacoma,
Washington, to a father whose ante-
cedents were Plymouth Brethren, and a
mother descended from the Harrigans
of Ireland. In 1906 the family moved
to Spokane, where the father became a
not-very-well-to-do bookkeeper in a
brewery.
Young Harry attended Webster
“grade-school” until 1917, when he en-
tered Gonzaga High-school, a prepara-
tory school for the Jesuit Gonzaga
College.
The Crosby boys worked at odd-jobs
in the mornings or after school to “help
out.” Young Harry in his time worked
a 4 a.m. paper-service, milked cows,
cleaned barns, thinned apples, worked
in a logging-camp, went with a survey-
ing-party, was for some years a night-
time assistant in a post-office, and be-
came a janitor in a working-man’s club.
He got his nickname at about eight
years old because of a “comic feature”
called “The Bingviile Bugle.” There was
a character in it called “Bingo”; and
with the “o” dropped in the course of
time, this made him Bing Crosby to the
world.
Bing Crosby became boxing champion
of Gonzaga; he also learned by heart,
in French, the fable of the crow and the
cheese with which he astounded Bob
Hope in the middle of the film “The
Road to Morocco”:
Hope was tremendously impressed by
the glibness with which I launched into
a foreign tongue. To this day he thinks
I speak French fluently.
Throughout his college years, Crosby
took part in the “elocution" contests,
reciting Robert Service and Macaulay, and
was generally “in the money” with first-
or second-prize. Among the penalties
for wrongdoing at the college was
memorising something from Ovid or
Virgil or Caesar’s Gallic Wars —back-
wards.
Exactly where “college” merges with
“university” is not clear from this book,
but in 1921 he is “toward the end of my
first year in the university” ; and then
we find that “in my third year of col-
lege I shifted to studying law," working
part-time in a law-office, typing briefs
and “handling attachments placed on the
wages of employees of the Great
Northern Railway Company.” But he
also had another interest:-
It began to dawn on me that I was
making as much money on the side, sing-
ing and playing the drums, as Colonel
Albert was paying his assistant-attorney.
The best-liked of Crosby’s early spare-
time jobs was of “assistant or flunky” in
the prop, department of Spokane’s big
opera-house, the Auditorium, where most
of the touring theatricals played;
I saw “George White’s Scandals” and
Willie and Eugene Howard’s shows, and
A 1 Jolson in “Sinbad and Borabo.”
Although Jolson was the star of those
shows, he spent most of his time when
he wasn’t on stage rushing out to the
box-oftice and counting the take.
Then, at high school, Crosby had been
one of the “Juicy Seven,” and at college
or university he joined the six-piece
dance-band, the “Musicaladers,” none of
whom could read music, but who listened
to new hot records and, through the
genius of Al Rinker for memorising re-
corded music, were able to play better
than more skilled Spokane performers
who stuck to the printed sheets.
They got three dollars a night each for
three nights a week at a dance pavilion ;
played for high-school dances and private
parties; and were featured in stage-show
preliminaries to films at the Spokane
picture-theatre, a novelty in America at
the time.
The “Musicaladers” fell apart in the
way of college combination. Al Rinker’s
sister Mildred Bailey had gone from sing-
ing in Spokane cabarets to celebrity in
Los Angeles with her “sultry, throaty ren-
ditions with a high concentrate of
Southern accent, such as ‘Louisville Lou’
and ‘Hard-Hearted Hannah’ ”; so, in
1925, Crosby and Al Rinker set off to
join her in a jalopy they bought for eight
dollars from the “Musicaladers.” Eighty
miles from Los Angeles the old car “blew
up” ; Crosby lifted out his drums, and
;hey set out to walk, being finally de-
ivered to Hollywood in a vegetable truck.
Mildred Bailey got them booked to sing
in a vaudeville, Crosby borrowing his
dinner-jacket for the interview from his
brother, Everett, who was doing well in
Los Angeles selling cars, and who was
later to drive his brother’s hard bargains
with recording, radio and film-companies.
Their act, Rinker at the piano and
(i Continued on page 35)


:
mtsmmKßßm liiiw
it., j
*• ' "'ll '’is
few.
:
:
I .
m
■ ::
hi
■
' •^sj
I
M
K
■HI
■ ••
4 «
-'‘l
Ci
fti
s»sgteX.
. v
V
13
>
u"« I
I
■
,'i'
"w ■-"
■
: - -- y?
in
■
■;>.■
1
%
inUo
: : ::
R
11
s
mm
m
-.'
i
"' ; ,
Sil
• I
Just dial this number
3
M 2401
m
and ash for
T. 0. P. S.
(copyright)
T.O.P.S. our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Service is the
easy, modem way to shop. T.0.P.5., which was specially instituted for the
benefit of you, our customers, who find it impossible to come to town to shop,
brings every Department in ANTHONY HORDERNS’ just as near to you as your own
telephone. If you're a busy housewife, a harassed business man or an out-of-town tradesman. T.O.P.S. can help you! Gone are
the days when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transferred from one department to
another with consequent delay. Gone, too. are the days when orders from different departments arrived on different days.
Now. an efficient T.O.P.S. assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your door. Or, if
you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S. Shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you!
Let our Optical Department guard your Eyes at Work and
mm
|
Your eyes, when in need of attention,
will most likely sound their own warn'
ing. Headaches and eyestrain are but
two symptoms. Often this warning goes
unheeded —but, if you’re wise, you’ll
quickly pay a visit to our special 2nd
Floor Optical Centre, where Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., the con'
suiting optometrist, will be only too
happy to guide you in the care of your
eyes. Special attention is given to all
Doctors’ and Hospital prescriptions.
TRY THESE
SERVICES
QuicU service
Restaurants
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
nave four conveniently located
eating places. On the Ground
Floor, Pitt St., you will find
our Quick Service Buffet,
also a soda fountain. The
“Tudor” Room is located on
a quietly situated mezzanine
floor, downstairs from the
Silks Department. The Main
Dining Room is on the 2nd
Floor, near the Shoe Dept.
Convenient
Rest Alcoves
We’ve 7 of these comfortable
rest rooms —at least one on
every floor. A wonderful
boon for weary shoppers!
Australia’s biggest
Birthday Party
What a riot of fun the
children have at ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ every Satur'
day morning. No less than 30
birthdays are celebrated each
week, and between five and
six hundred children and
their senior escorts enjoy the
fun in one huge Birthday
Party. The fun starts at 9.45
a.m., when all the children
gather in our Special Concert
Hall. There they enjoy a full
hour’s entertainment and com'
munity singing, conducted by
2GB artists. Then at 10.45
a.m., they all troop down to
our Dining Room for their
birthday parties! What a
great idea for parents! All you
do is book a table for your
party, any number, at a
fee of 2/6 per head, and
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
do the rest.
High standard
Radio
Programmes I
Each Sunday night over
Station 2SM, from 9.30 p.m.
to 11 P.m., ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ sponsor what
has now become Sydney’s
finest cultural Music Session.
Mr. Tom Jacobs, the famous
Australia and overseas radio
personality, comperes this
hour and a half of selected
and requested classical record'
ings. Send in your request to
Tom Jacobs, 2SM Sydney—
and tune in every Sunday at
9.30 p.m. And for gardening
fiends, Mr. Albert Evans,
F.H.R.S., our gardening ex'
pert, conducts an interesting
programme called the Gar'
dening Quizz” each Satur'
day morning at 8.30 a.m.
w
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
e»*M


Vanishing Historic Inscriptions
Tongues in Trees
By A. H. CHISHOLM
Australia has lost, through
various causes, many relics posses-
sing a curious distinction, and
others of the kind seem likely to
vanish unless something is done in the
matter.
The reference here is to trees: not
simply average specimens (however
worthy), but those that were converted,
many years ago, into living “manu-
scripts,” or “documentaries,” through
having inscriptions carved upon them by
explorers or other notabilities. Allied to
such relics are, or were, trees near which
historical ceremonies were enacted.
Australia once possessed more ex-
amples of “tongues in trees” than, in all
probability, any other region ever did—•
not excluding the Forest of Arden.
Possibly this is the case still. In recent
years, however, the ranks have been
grievously thinned, and at the present
day other losses are threatened.
It was inevitable, no doubt, that trees
associated with the founding of cities
should disappear. The Sydney tree upon
which the British flag was first hoisted
in Australia and which (according to
the Sydney “Herald” of 1832) was “con-
sidered sacred” by Governor Macquarie
met the axes of pioneering street-
repairers. The “Great Tree” under which
Australia’s first divine service was held,
together with its macabre associate the
“Fatal Tree” (innocent participant in
Sydney’s first hangings in 1788), vanished
still earlier. And, of course, the tree
that marked the founding of Perth was
cut down (as a memorial on the spot
testifies) in 1829.
Those trees are commemorated only in
printed records ; no portions of them re-
main as relics, nor were they ever
illustrated. The same point obtains in
regard to certain other trees, notably
those inscribed by William Bligh at
Adventure Bay (Tas.) in 1792.
The oldest Australian tree-inscription
known today is in the Queensland
Museum ; it is portion of a Gulf of Car-
pentaria tree marked by Matthew
Flinders in 1802, and by various other
voyagers both before and after that date ;
and it was salvaged when dying. Some-
one should have done Australia similar
service in regard to the Receveur Tree
at Botany Bay—the “redgum” near
which the Franciscan friar of the La
Perouse expedition was buried in
February, 1788. In spite of protests, the
inscribed portion of that tree was sent to
France in 1854. We should make an
effort to have it (like the Vlamingh plate
of Western Australia) returned to the
land of its origin. At least, however, an
illustration of this tree is available; it
depicted by Oswald Brierley in
Various other historical trees have
withstood the ravages of both time and
man. The Hovell Tree at Albury (1824)
is one. The Leichhardt Tree at Queens-
land’s Taroom (1844) is another. The
Separation Tree (1850) in the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens is a third example. In
other instances, as with the Explorers’
Tree on the Blue Mountains (1813),
stumps have been bolstered-up with con-
crete.
In other instances again fragments of
notable trees are contained in various
museums and historic collections. Among
them are portions of boles marked by the
explorer Evans in 1815, by Governor
Macquarie in 1820 and by the unfor-
tunates who were marooned from the
ship Queen of the Colonies some 50 miles
north of Brisbane in 1863.
The regrettable fact is that numbers of
other “manuscripts” of the kind have
been lost through the trees being
destroyed, either by axe or fire. Only
recently, for example, a eucalypt near
Hughenden in west Queensland, which
was inscribed during the big shearing
strike in 1891 and which had come to
be regarded as the “birthplace” of the
Australian Labor party, was burnt to the
ground.
Moreover, various records contain
references to inscribed trees that can-
not now be found, among them relics of
Hamilton Hume in western New South
Wales, memorials left by T. L. Mitchell
(notably one at the junction of the Darl-
ing with the Murray), an inscribed tree
commemorating the grave in north
Queensland of the explorer John Gilbert
(1845) and various trees marked by E. B
Kennedy (1848).
It begins to seem at this late day, when
‘ documentary” trees are becoming rare
and venerable, that the best plan would
be to cut each one down, remove the
inscribed portion to a public institution
and place a plaque on the stump or a
small cairn near by. This suggestion, of
course, applies only to trees that are
decaying rapidly and those that cannot be
safeguarded.
A particular case in point is the DIG
Tree on the Mackenzie River near
Comet in central Queensland. This
specimen was inscribed by the com-
panions of Ludwig Leichhardt on his
second (and disastrous) journey of 1847,
documents being buried at the spot to
convey to possible searchers “the miser-
able and helpless condition of the party,”
Some weeks later the travellers them-
selves, on returning to the spot, disin-
terred the letters, and so when A. C.
Gregory chanced upon the tree in 1856
and obeyed its command to “dig” he
found nothing.
Now, more than 100 years after it was
inscribed, the DIG Tree has become dis-
tinctly frail. Old age and the ravages of
insects have sapped its vitality, and, quite
obviously, it cannot remain erect much
longer. The need, therefore, is for the
tree to be replaced by a small cairn and
the inscription removed to an historical
museum. This modest task, one suggests,
might well be put in hand at once by the
Queensland Government.
If reports from the Centre be correct,
similar action appears desirable in rela-
tion to the DIG trees associated with the
Burke and Wills expedition.
Possibly, too, salvaging is needed in the
cases of the extraordinary “autographed”
trees that are hidden away in the
Cavenagh Ranges, immediately west of
the junction of W.A., S.A. and the N.T.
Some of these specimens carry the
“signatures” of several exploratory expe-
ditions —among them those of Giles,
Gosse, Forrest, Mills and Lindsay—and,
as they were inscribed between 1873 and
1891, they must be, if still alive, con-
siderably the worse for wear.
In other days several trees inscribed
by explorers were salvaged and com-
memorated by Governments of New
South Wales. The call now is for other
Governments to render similar service,
beginning in Queensland with the DIG
Tree of the Mackenzie.
By Correspondence
January 6, 1954.
The Manager,
Haywire Hairdressing Accessories
Manufacturing Co.
Dear Sir,
As a practical protest against the
ever-rising cost of haircuts, I invested
in a pair of your Hackwell hair-
clippers. My wife, to whom I en-
trusted the task of reducing my hair
again to reasonable proportions, read
carefully through the instructions
which came with the clippers and
proceeded accordingly.
I must ask you, therefore, why it
should be necessary for me to lie
down on the floor during the opera-
tion?
Yours faithfully,
R. Phwitt.
January 10, 1954.
Mr. R. Phwitt.
Dear Sir,
Your letter of 6th instant to hand.
I have pleasure in advising you that
the instructions sent you with the
clippers were the wrong ones. They
apply to sheep-shearing machines,
which we also manufacture. What
your wife was trying to apply to you
was apparently the “long blow.”
Accept our apologies. You will,
I think, find the enclosed instruc-
tions perfectly clear. Even a woman
should be able tp follow them.
Yours faithfully,
H. Ardcase.
Manager.
January 20, 1954.
The Manager,
Haywire Hairdressing Accessories
Manufacturing Co.
Dear Sir,
Adverting to previous correspond-
ence regarding the pair of your hair-
clippers purchased by me, I would
like to be advised if you have for
sale a supplementary attachment
which will lend a cutting action to
the clippers instead of the chewing
action possessed by the original
machine.
I enclose a sketch of my head
made after the wife had finished try-
ing to “cut” my hair with your
Hackwell Clippers. The completely
hairless patch just below the crown
at the back is where the clippers
ploughed in and became so inextric-
ably bogged that the whole patch,
clippers and all, had to be carefully
cut out and removed with a pair of
scissors.
Until I bought your clippers I Was
always under the impression that
such implements were made of steel.
The use of hoop-iron seems to have
been your peculiar contribution to
the march of science.
Black arrows indicate the com-
mencement of the well-defined tracks
and the shaded arrows the detour-
routes which had to be taken be-
cause of the clipper’s failure at cer-
tain spots. I found their chewing
action so agonising that I had to bite
my teeth so hard to stop myself
screaming that they bent under the
strain.
Yours faithfully,
R. Phwitt.
January 22, 1954.
Mr. R. Phwitt.
Dear Sir,
The submitted sketch of your post-
clipped (or -chewed) head, showing
the various swathes made through
it, clearly indicate a navigational
deficiency in your wife. Obviously,
too, she began the clip at the fore-
head, over the head and finishing
at the back of the neck. This is
exactly the reverse of the accepted
procedure. Perhaps she is a left-
hander and thought that clipping it
that way would have the same effect
as if a right-hander did it the ortho-
dox way. Or was it because she is
rather vague as to which is the back
or front of your head?
A possible cause of the chewing
action of which you complain would
be her tendency to put her entire
weight on the clippers as they were
traversing your skull. We would be
pleased if you would advise us of
her exact weight.
I enclose a piece of rubber to
place between your teeth at the next
clipping.
Yours faithfully,
H. Ardcase,
Manager.
January 24, 1954.
The Manager,
Haywire Hairdressing Accessories
Manufacturing Co.
Dear Sir,
My wife goes 14st. 81b. without
her foundation garments. She
assured me she put no more than
three-quarters of this total into her
tonsoriai exertions. As she is a
rqature woman, I resent the imputa-
tion that she hasn’t enough brains
to cut my hair. I have always main-
tained, after a lifetime in barbers’-
chairs, that any goat can cut hair.
Incidentally, the clippers are
dangerous to use. As well as chew-
ing the hair off they took pieces out
of my scalp.
I have been compelled, owing to
the state of what’s left of my hair
and scalp after use of your Hack-
well clippers, to wear a turban while
at work, otherwise I would be sub-
jected to ridicule and possibly con-
tempt.
Yours faithfully,
R. Phwitt.
January 26, 1954.
Mr. R. Phwitt,
Dear Sir,
We can only assume that the cause
of the poor hair-cutting was due,
not to the failure of the clippers,
but to the fact that you have an egg-
shaped head, for which your old
duck made no allowance when she
used the clippers.
Short of having your skull re-
shaped, we fail to see what remedy
we can suggest, unless it be that you
should trade your wife in for a
lighter model or use a blowlamp.
Yours faithfully,
H. Ardcase,
Manager,
per Bo.
Tony Timber
BY EMJAI
THE one way really to know and
appreciate our Australian timbers is
to handwork them and then live with
the finished product, made with
patient and accurate attention to joinery
and finish.
Over 40 years or so I have, as a hobby,
worked all our suitable Victorian hard-
woods and others, and still give pride of
place, for combined utility and beauty,
to the blackwood ; not the pale, character-
less, straight-grained type, but the dark,
dense, moderately fiddled and figured real
blackwood, which handsomely repays the
handworking it requires.
Why is it that this beautiful timber,
for furniture and high-class fittings, has
become unfashionable?
The answer seems to be a stimulated
craze for the exotic, in fantastic veneers
__j ”
and faked-up blonde wood on cheaply
strung-together frames of rubbish (stimu-
lated by mass production and display),
and the fact that production costs of
u j a t. t j o
handmade whole-wood pieces from the
best hardwoods have almost eliminated
the capable and conscientious tradesman,
A manufacturer recently remarked that
practically all his men were just assemblers
and could not individually make a well-
constructed and -finished blackwood
suit®*
Next to the blackwood, for utility, as
well as beauty if lighter tonings appeal,
is the mountain-ash. Magnificent examples
of the beauty of this timber are to be seen
in the pulpit and other fixtures in the
Anglican church at Alexandra (Vic.) and
in the panelling in the home there of the
managing-director of the Rubicon Timber
Mills. The panelling in Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, is an outstanding example in
blackwood.
For warm richness and depth in dark
tonings the lightly fiddled jarrah gives
most satisfying results, though short in
grain for light construction. The fiddle-
back stringybark and redgum, and most
of the eucalypts, including narrow-leaf
red-ironbark, spotted-gum and pepper-
mint, work up well for appropriate pur-
P oses > and the waved-grain red-box
and the Murray willow can be truly
lovely.
The Queensland maple, the walnut and
mahogany have had to vogue and are
beautiful timbers, but tend to be mono-
,onous bfjside the ’ real blackw ood,
0 , ,
, S °” e woods fr°!Vf e m ° re “° r JjS?
' oda n llt,es . ff. d< * B . ht£,d >‘“Laboinv
bean, red tulip, satmay, capel mahogany,
satin ’ sycarao £ Ne w Guinea rosewood
and others . but they are mainly slashed
into veneer and they lack something of
the robust beauty of the southern hard-
woods, such as the true blackwood.
This fine timber has been criminally
wasted in the past, but there are still
good supplies in Tasmania and a fair
amount in Gippsland and Beach Forest,
High time it came back into its own and
received the attention it deserves in the
way of conservation and reafforestation.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 27, 1954
ypl. 75—No. 3859
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne ,
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHAT'S DOING ON SUNDAY?
A Newcastle textile concern has put a proposition
to those of its employees engaged on continuous work
that they should forgo weekend penalty-rates and
accept in return an increase in their weekly of
pay, to be paid irrespective of the number of week-
ends worked. Whether the average employees would be
better or worse off financially under such a plan is
impossible to say without full knowledge of all the
factors involved, but the Textile Workers’ Union is
reported to have “sought A.C.T.U. aid to resist the
move,” and Albert Monk, who happens to be in
Australia at the moment in between two of his
Geneva jaunts, has said that “A.C.T.U. policy is
opposed firmly to. any reduction of weekend penalty-
rates.”
In most industries where penalty-rates are paid
work done on Saturdays puts time-and-a-half in the
pay-envelope; Sunday work double-time, so that the
problem is one which bears heavily upon any industry
in which continuous production is involved. While
the war-time and early post-war sellers’ market was
with us, the burden was concealed, but in the last
year or so its effect on the price-structure has become
more and more apparent.
There is no doubt that penalty-rates have con-
tributed to the rise in the cost of living. In 1951 the
conciliation refused a union applica-
tion to have quarterly adjustments of the basic
wage applied to marginal rates for skill, but right
down until the suspension of adjustments last Novem-
ber the penalty-rates rose automatically with the
basic wage and thus played their part in increasing
prices in each successive quarter and perpetuating
the mad spiral.
Penalty-rates, it should be emphasised, are not
rates paid for work done in overtime hours, but for
duties performed on Saturday or Sunday as part of
the 40-hour week, and for which equivalent time is
allowed off during- the week.
The public-transport systems provide an example
of the economic drain on the community through the
penalty-rate system. It cost the N. S. Wales transport
authorities —or, in plain words, the taxpayers over £1
million last year, yet when Railways Commissioner
Winsor made a move to try to ease the burden a little
he was promptly squashed by the “Labor ’ Govern-
ment at the behest of the unions. The blatancy of that
move shocked even Sydney. Winsor having applied
to the Arbitration Court for a reduction in penalty-
rates —as a counter-claim to a union claim for an
increase—the Trades and Labor Council asked him
to withdraw his application, and its assistant-secretary,
J. D. Kenny, informed the Press that the Transport
Minister would, if necessary, tell Winsor “where he
gets off.” And that is what came to pass, although
it was the full Cabinet that issued the order to the
commissioner to sound the retreat.
Whenever there is any suggestion of abolishing
or reducing penalty-rates the A.C.T.U. raises a
sound-barrier that a jet-plane couldn’t get through.
This din resolves itself into the argument that it a
man gives up his weekend leisure to work when most
people are idle, then he is entitled to be well com-
pensated for doing so. The tramwayman, for example,
works on Sunday so that essential transport can be
provided for other workers who wish to take their
families out for the day. In doing so he sacrifices his
own-chance of spending Sunday with his family, so
it is only right that he should be recompensed.
There is no doubt the argument sounds perfectly
logical. Yet when it was proposed last year that one-
man buses should be substituted for Sunday trams on
some of the Sydney suburban routes there was an
immediate outcry from officials of the Tramways
Union, who complained that the changeover would
cause “substantial reductions in the earnings of tram-
waymen, including the loss of weekend penalty-
rates.”
This attitude is by no means an isolated example.
Weekend work is not regarded as a hardship ; in
general it is welcomed for the extra money it brings,
and there is competition to get it —and ill-feeling
among those who feel they are not being rostered for
their fair share of it. On the waterfront the high
cost of weekend work has bumped-up freights and
slowed-down the turn-round of ships. Most vessels
are now idle at the weekend, but there is keen rivalry
for the jobs that are offering. Quite recently there was
trouble on the Sydney wharves through men refusing
THE HOGTOPUS
Friday-night work but seeking the Saturday and
Sunday jobs at penalty-rates.
Although the high cost of the weekend handout
can be easily assessed where public transport is con-
cerned, it is not so easy to reckon-up the cost to pnva e
industry, and, through resultant high prices, to the
community. The Tariff Board in its latest report
includes the impost among the “special burdens
Australian industry has to bear.
Those industries most vulnerable to foreign com-
petition will be forced more and more to realise this
as import-restrictions are relaxed and lifted in the
course of the current year. But the people who really
need to be convinced are the union officials and
members who are reaping the harvest of the present
system. What they have to learn is that unless week-
end work 4s put on a more realistic basis there may
soon be no harvest to reap.
On to Technocracy
Australia has scarcely been aware of the great Con-
gress for the Australian and New Zealand Advance-
ment of Science which has been proceeding at Can-
berra. It has attracted the attention of the Press only
through fag-end sensationalism or humor.
Yet the conference is a matter of importance to
everybody, a heartening matter which advertises that
above the sediment of unpleasant trivialities of the
Press and radio exists another universe in which the
Commonwealth and her sister-Dominion across the
Tasman rank as two of the world’s important
scientific countries, the realm of Gilbert Murray and
Rutherford, a world in which youth and curiosity
and vigorous and constructive contention are me basic
factors in life.
When the first meeting of the association took
place 30 sessions ago, the daily Press allocated to it
a battery of its leading reporters and publicists, and
its reports of discoveries, analyses of findings and
essays in criticism were reported to the length of
pages. Now it is almost completely ignored—on the
surface at least—though the effects of the work it
does, the research it stimulates, the conclusions and
findings which it correlates and publicises, the
exchange of ideas it promotes have a considerable
effect on the changing Substance of Australian
industry and Australian progress.
Rosters of lectures and debates are studded with
the names of men at whose feet any advanced student
anywhere would be prepared to sit, not less than with
those of men of affairs actually engaged in the appli-
cation of the theories which the scientists are sitting
towards perfection: men like Douglas Mawson, Kerr
Grant, Titterton, Oliphant, Baxter, Burnet, Griffith
Taylor—filched from us when we most needed him by
the Americans but now returned—and Messel,
Grenfell Price, Bowen.
These and dozens of others whose names could be
mentioned in any scholastic corner of the world and
be recognised with respect, apart from those who
mingle in the central hall with actual writers of his-
tory and the teachers and expositors and the pure -
souled theorists of the social scicnces—some dismal
and some not —who gather to thrash out the thought
of the future with actual practitioners.
Mr. Paul Hasluck presides as an experienced
exponent at a symposium led by his own lucid paper
on British Commonwealth relations, at*, which the
Indian High Commissioner sits in the front row and
the whole array of the Commonwealth s historical
talent led by Norman Harpur and J. O. N. Perkins
give specialist interpretations of the San Francisco
Conference and the problems of the sterling area.
Dr. Evatt —“P.C., M.A., LL.D., D.Litt, Q.C.,
but apparently hot M.P.—leads the anthropology sec-
tion with an address on “Social Change in the
Colonial World” as a pipe-opener for men like Elkin,
Stanner and D. F. F. Thompson. H. C. Coombs,
governor of the Commonwealth Bank, Leslie Mel-
ville, Roland Wilson (secretary to the Commonwealth
Treasury) and S. R. Carver (Government Statistician)
submit their deeds and views to the razorhke analyses
of post-graduate minds. The brilliance of Robin Boyd,
Brian Lewis and Mansergh Shaw m archttecural
exposition functions side-by-side with the virtuosity of
the educationists headed by Professor Oeser and the
unorthodox and outspoken SchoneU, of Queensland,
and the propagandists of New England New State
debate geography, economic or otherwise, with J.
Macdonald Holmes, Griffith Taylor and O. H. K.
Spate. . . , .
The questions with immediate practical impact on
the more general conditions of Australian living,
debated by the country’s best practitioners under fire
from their equals, are no less attended to by those con-
cerned with them—“ The Evolution of the Australian
House-”* “The Australian War History Tradition
(discussed by all its leading exponents from the vener-
able Bean to Gavin Long), “Soil-conditioners, The
Mechanical and Electrical Equipment of Buildings
and “Problems of Manuscript-editing” conduce just as
much to Australia’s and the world’s material and cul-
tural progress as the elucidations of “an improved
process for large-scale vegetable-cooking” and of “the
function of mosquitoes as experimental vectors of
Murray Valley encephalitis.”
One important overall trend which is illustrated
at such gatherings is the rising importance in the world
of science and technology, a development which per-
haps tends to explain the obvious slackening of interest
in politics. The statesman and the orator are fast
ceasing to be masters of man’s fate (one might judge),
their places being progressively taken by the scientist,
the technician and the educationist. And as the influ-
ence of these classes in producing a better world is
developing to a large extent without attracting pro-
portionate notice, and mankind becomes more and
more willing to accept the good things, social, bodily
and communal, which modern research and critical
discussion are producing, the ultimate seems likely to
be that the scientists and those who translate their
discoveries into practical terms will soon become the
real rulers of society, if they are not already.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Future of Sterling
The finding of the Randall Commis-
sion, which it had been hoped would
be public before the Commonwealth
Finance Ministers’ Conference sat and
the U,.S. President delivered his “state of
the Union” speech, is now available, and,
as Mr. Menzies says, is “an historic docu-
ment.” It recommends the extension of
the principle of the Reciprocal Trade
Agreements Act for three years—with
qualifications. It declares that the Presi-
dent should have power to reduce tariff-
rates not more than 5 per cent, per year
for three years, and to simplify tariff
classifications on the recommendation of
the Tariff Commission. It recommends a
greater latitude in competition for out-
side nations. But the main light from
within which makes it clearly visible to
the outside world is its recommendation
that a gradual and controlled approach
should be made to convertibility of
sterling and other currencies, in combina-
tion with policies aimed to remove trade-
restrictions.
This represents a sensible view, for, as
the commission remarks, a merely formal
convertibility maintained through trade-
restrictions would be deplorable.
The most heartening feature about
this part of the report is the inferential
admissions it contains. The financial
chauvinism which governed American
thinking under the Democrat regime,
and which seemed sometimes to imagine
the world developing into a sort of work-
house full of indigent nations perman-
ently clamoring for the American dollar
and offering up humble gratitude at in-
tervals for* gifts received, has given place
to a more realistic approach.
The commission admits that general
economic conditions are favorable to
establishment of convertibility: that
sterling is now a “key currency” financ-
ing about 40 per cent, of the world
trade, even if Britain’s reserves need
strengthening before there is enough
foundation to admit convertibility. To
help obtain this the commission favors
making greater use of the £l5OO million
gold and convertible-currency reserve of
the International Monetary Fund, by any
reasonable relaxations of the fund under
stated conditions.
Mr. Menzies declared that the under-
lying principles of the report are “in re-
markable harmony with the underlying
principles of the recent Finance Minis-
ters’ Conference,” and praised the liberal
sense in which the function of the world
bank was viewed and the committee’s
favoring encouragement of private inter-
national investment as particularly im-
portant to Australia.
At the same time, it should be remem-
bered that the report is only a set of
recommendations, and that, while com-
missions may be liberal both in giving
and in principle. Governments are apt
to be harder, and, whatever the appear-
ance of their policies on the surface,
always aim at a political purpose and
power behind the scenes, whether at
home or in the world scene. If sterling
acquires convertibility it will not be
basically through the generosity of the
United States or anybody else, but
because of the fact that it has established
its economic backing through greater
Commonwealth productivity, so that no-
body can gainsay its right. Much of the
change of outlook in the United States
has been produced by the United
Kingdom standing on its own feet, hold-
ing its head up and working for its
freedom from financial domination.
A.C.T.U. Puts on an Aet
A few months ago the A.C.T.U. decided
to approach the Arbitration Court “at
an appropriate time” to ask for a
restoration of automatic quarterly ad-
justments of the basic wage. Last week
its inter-State executive discussed the
subject for two days, in the course of
which the Commonwealth Statistician
released the cost-of-living index-figures
for the December quarter. These
showed a slight drop in Sydney and
Perth and a slight rise in the other four
capitals (highest in Hobart).
Although those figures hardly seemed
to justify an assumption that the appro-
priate moment had arrived, the executive
urged the immediate resumption of
adjustments, but criticised the basis on
which the index-numbers were computed
and urged a change in the regimen. It
also advocated the repeal of the Arbi-
tration Act and the creation of an en-
tirely new instrument for the settling of
industrial disputes, with a conciliation-
committee system substituted for the
Arbitration Court.
Abolition of the court runs counter
to the declared policy of political
“Labor,” but the A.C.T.U. executive de-
cided to confer with the A.L.P. in order
to have these changes instituted when
“Labor” was returned to power. In
further criticism of the court the execu-
tive said that the “Labor” movement
refused to accept the judges’ contention
that the basic wage was now divorced
from the “needs” principle.
This attitude is a trifle belated; the
A.C.T.U. didn’t object when the court
emphasised this point when adding £1
to the wage in 1950. Statistically the
average wage-earner is better off now
than in 1949; the records show that
average weekly earnings have increased
by 90.7 per cent, since September, 1949,
whereas the cost-of-liviAg index has risen
only 62.5 per cent. Further, the so-called
wage-freeze dates from September, 1953,
and the rise in the cost of living for the
subsequent quarter was only 0.3 per
cent. There is every reason for believ-
ing that stability in this regard has been
achieved, and that the A.C.T.U., in
pressing for automatic adjustments, is
making a fuss about nothing. And its
plea for abolition of the Arbitration
Court doesn’t seem to be anything more
than a bluff.
Commonsense and Cahill
The Commonwealth Government -leaves
the world of dreams with the announce-
ment of Mr. Kent Hughes, Minister for
the Interior, that the Government will
in future approve only those works
which it can begin or complete within
two years. This policy, arising out of a
general agreement at the Finance Minis-
ters’ Cpnference, will enable a system of
priority to be established under which
preference will be given to works produc-
tive of national development.
Already £17,000,000-worth of works
for 1953-54 which do not come within
this new system have been ditched or
deferred —works “mainly from previous
regimes” which had been started but not
finished.
Under the new system only those
works will be planned which can be
encompassed, and the political dream-
ing-up of vast and ruinous projects and
launching them on the eve of an election
with no intention of completing them, as
was the habit of “Labor” Governments,
is to be abandoned, and the word “long-
range” to disappear as far as possible
from Ministerial speeches.
The money diverted will be pumped
into the developmental projects to
accelerate their completion.
Presumably the State Premiers will
find themselves influenced by this policy
in Loan Council conferences and else-
where, and it can scarcely be a pleasant
thought for some of them.
At the first impact on his ears of the
news of a possibly freer loan market in
London, Mr. Cahill’s countenance
assumed the expression of a confidence-
man who has just spotted a prospect
with a straw in his mouth. He hastened
to predict after his meeting with the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer in
Canberra “an early end to State Gov-
ernment difficulties in financing develop-
mental works,” and said that if London
loans became available at reasonable
rates the States would “no longer need
to curtail their urgent programmes for
hospital and school buildings,” the main
media for vote-buying remaining to men
of his views and calibre. He said that
Mr. Butler had “encouraged the Premiers
to put up works programmes for which
the Australian Loan Council could bor-
row money from London.”
An erstwhile member of the Lang
regime, the antagonists of ruin through
enslavement to the Brutal British Bood-
ler and also the advocates of repudiation
of loan-interest, Mr. Cahill seems to be
giving the finest exhibition of repent-
ance since Henry II walked from Lon-
don to Canterbury with peas in his
boots after the murder of Thomas
k Becket.
It is sad that Mr. Cain of Victoria does
not agree with his colleague. He says
“there was no immediate prospect of
obtaining large-scale loans from Britain
—any obtainable would only supplement
the inadequacies of Loan Council
finance.”
However, perhaps Mr. Cain can be
pardoned for being a pessimist, not hav-
ing been trained by Messrs. Lang, Garden
and Willis, or having studied in the Joe
Arthur School of High Finance.
Flies Not Flagging
Canberra streets along which Royalty
will pass have now wire-fences (tem-
porary, local residents hope) between
roadway and footpath, as well as bunt-
ing and other “decorations” which effec-
tually hide the beauty of the tree-plan-
tations. Departmental houses and the
shopping-centres have been painted, and
even some street potholes filled-in. But
in two particulars the officials have
slipped badly—the promised new swim-
ming-pool is still just an ugly hole in the
ground, and the local houseflies are more
numerous and annoying than ever.
It’s too late to do anything about the
swimming-pool this year, although the
Minister for the Interior should make
some sort of example of officers who
promised that the new pool would be
open this summer, especially as they
knew that Canberra’s population of
31,000 would be augmented in February
by tens of thousands more, and that the
existing pool at Manuka, a miserable
33 yards by 11 as a result of “economy”
in the depression, would be even more
inadequate and unhealthy than it has
been for years.
But the flies should be another story.
There have been assurances that the
blowfly-traps scattered at wide intervals
around the outskirts of the city would
be effective in curbing that most
pleasant A.C.T. nuisance, and it really
seems that these brutes are rather fewer
in numbers at present. But houseflies
have never been so plentiful, and
although there are semi-secret plans for
trying to prevent them from settling on
Royalty, on welcoming politicians and
on attendant guards-of-honor and what-
not, there is no sign of any campaign to
wipe them out by systematic attention to
their breeding-grounds at rubbish-tips
and some of the seldom-seen and less-
publicised portions of the Nat. Cap.
It may be possible for the Queen and
those close to her to be sprayed with
repellant before outdoor appearances,
both to ensure her greater comfort and
to prevent the newsreels presenting a sea
of flapping hands, but it seems to verge
somewhat on lese-majesty, and it would
be far better to tackle the source of the
trouble —and to continue to tackle it
permanently. * ■.
Flies are not an inevitable nuisance,
as many health-conscious and comfort-
appreciating American communities have
shown. Certainly the spoon-fed citizens
of Canberra could do something to help
themselves in the matter, but there are
many breeding-spots which can be tackled
only by effective official action. It’s still
not too late for something to be done
before the visit. The only alternative
would seem to be one of those sun-
downer-hats, with rows of bobbing corks.
It might start a new fashion abroad, but
it wouldn’t be a good advertisement for
Australia.
Plain Irish
“In the ACT”: Few people are going to
be upset because the Governments of
Australia and of that southern portion of
Ireland which so bitterly resents the
“partition” of the north were unable to
agree on the title of an Australian Ambas-
sador to Dublin, and consequently had to
announce the cancellation of Mr. Paul
McGuire’s appointment. There are
reports that a lot of Australian tourists
visit Ireland, but anyone who has been
recently in Dublin would find it hard to
imagine that an Ambassador for Aus-
tralia would find much to do there.
Neither an array of diplomats nor
further infusion of dollars from nos-
talgic Irish-Americans (who do not
return to live) will save the southern
portion of Ireland from increasing poverty
of vigor, of ideas and of productive
capacity unless the Irish start to for-
get about the past and begin planning
for the future. The prickly insistence
in Dublin that the President is the “Presi-
dent of Ireland,” and must be addressed
as such, irrespective of Australian rela-
tions with Northern Ireland, was the
cause of the unnecessary and almost
farcical disagreement.
There was rather excessive diplomatic
circumlocution about Mr. Casey’s
announcement that the various forms of
Mr. McGuire’s letters of credence which
had been discussed between the two
Governments “were regarded by one party
or the other as involving important con-
stitutional implications in respect of the
claims of the Government of the Republic
of Ireland regarding the area of its terri-
torial jurisdiction.” The simultaneous
statement of the Irish Minister for
External Affairs, Mr. Aiken, mentioned in
placatory fashion that the Irish Minister
at Canberra would not be withdrawn, but
concluded with a remark which was at
least as Irish as the polite Donnybrook
which had been proceeding on the subject
since last April. His statement mentioned
that the “Diplomatic Representative of the
Irish News Agency” had asked what
effect the decision was likely to have on
Australian representation in Dublin, and
that Mr. Aiken replied “So far as the
Irish Government is concerned, none.”
,Mr. McGuire may feel a little hurt at
this, but it was surely the perfect last word
in the controversy.
Break-of-gauge Again
In his report to Federal Parliament for
1952-53 the Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner (Mr. Hannaberry) goes
into the break-of-gauge problem, and,
after restating the familiar facts of loss
and delay at transhipping points, the
danger to defence and so forth, remarks
that “In the present state of the finances
any immediate extensive scheme of uni-
fication of gauges is probably impossible.”
How impossible Mr. Hannaberry pro-
ceeds to demonstate by pointing out that
whereas if the recommendation of 1897
for uniform gauge had been adopted it
would have cost £2,360,000, another
recommendation in 1921 would have cost
£21.6 million to standardise main lines
in N.S.W., Victoria and South Australia.
By the time the Clapp plan came up
in 1945 —for a standard-gauge from Fre-
mantle to Brisbane through Adelaide,
Melbourne and Sydney—the estimate
was £44.3 million, Mr. Hannaberry
wisely doesn’t venture an estimate on
what it would cost now, but says mildly
that material and wage-costs have gone
up, and “the cost today would be very
much higher.”
There are other aspects apparently not
considered by Mr. Hannaberry. One is
that the march of modern transport, to-
gether with the developments in both
motive fuels and mobility on land and
in the air of transport vehicles, suggest
pretty plainly that it would be foolish to
spend millions on more railways or the
conversion of existing ones to this or
that gauge. In other words, it is doubt-
ful now if conversion wouldn’t be far
more costly and wasteful than existing
methods of transhipping. One doesn’t
need much vision to foresee that by the
end of the century most railways could
be obsolete.
What’s more, despite big schemes and
colossal spending by railway authorities,
the railways drop further back in the
transport business and keep loading the
nation with mounting losses. For a
country like Australia to be talking
about spending millions on railways
managed as Australian railways are
managed, instead of spending heavily on
roads and aerodromes, is absurd.
International Gloom
While the great body of p.-0.-w. in
Korea are making for Formosa, and the
few lonely, demented converts to Com-
munism wait, repudiated by those for
whom they are sacrificing their home-
lands, in the bitter cold of No Man’s
Land, the Berlin Conference meets.
It was preceded by a blast “for peace”
in Asia by a Russia which has armed,
is still arming, and will continue to arm
the Indo-Chinese rebels though it now
solemnly shrieks that the Vietnamese
people must establish peace at any price
to “defeat the French warmongers.”
Such is the state of the world that
nobody can even laugh at the paradox
that, while this is going on in Asia,
Russian propagandists are cooing along
the Champs-Elysees telling the “war-
mongering” French about their tradi-
tional ties with Moscow and advising
them to desert their allies at Berlin and
agree to the concept of a permanently
unarmed Germany with a single Govern-
ment, helot to a Russian-French alli-
ance. There is a section in France
hysterical enough to agree.
Meanwhile the Foreign Ministers have
arrived in Berlin, and before the con-
ference opening behaved like two lots
of boxers before a championship match:
Molotov isolated in Eastern Berlin, the
remainder trying to agree on procedures
in the West. Britain and the United
States were quite able, as usual, to settle
their minor differences, but M. Bidault
of France seems to be not insensible to
the advantages of his bargaining position
and to be giving some contributory
color to the dictum of a Russian of 1917
that France has always been “politically
a little off its head since the Revolution,”
and therefore a fruitful field for
anarchic propaganda.
The conference gives the last real hope
(i Continued on next page)


of peace. The evidence tends to a con-
viction that it is the only thing that can
save the United Nations from falling
apart or becoming moribund, if not
already that way.
Scarcely noticed in an Australian
Press which is interested in little but
racing and nakedness, President Eisen-
liower is facing this week something like
a rebellion against the dictatorships of
U.S. Presidents which has grown up in
the past couple of decades. This is the
formation of a Senate bloc of Republi-
can supporters, strong enough to
carry the Bricker amendment to the
U.S. Constitution, which would make it
necessary for treaties entered into by the
President to receive Congressional sanc-
tion before having the force of domestic
United States law.
The extent to which treaties are used
for domestic lawmaking is shown by the
fact that certain covenants of the United
Nations are required to be the subject
of conforming legislation in the Con-
gress, and many leaders believe that
to be a putting of the cart before the
horse—the Americans not being so meek
a race as Australians. The President is
willing to accept any clause which
stipulates that a treaty violating the
American Constitution shall have no
force, or that the Senate may vote a
rider to a treaty declaring it to be not
automatically U.S. law. But the whole
way he will not go —cannot, in fact, since
it would involve for each treaty or
agreement (and treaties are multitude)
a measure being passed by two-thirds
majority in Congress and by two-thirds
of the State legislatures.
If it is passed the United States is
headed back to isolationism with a
vengeance. It is most unfortunate that
the matter should be vital politics while
the Berlin Conference is meeting.
POLITICAL POINTS
You’re Wrong, Delaney.
• •
Cahill has instructed his Cabinet to
wear Homburgs during the Royal visit.
Some of them look more at ease with a
hamburger in their hands than a Homburg
on their heads.
• •
Just when some Premiers were rubbing
their hands over the illusion that Britain
was about to hand them large loans for
“State development,” Premier Cain
announced that he could see no immediate
prospect of large-scale loans from the
British Government. The nark!
• •
An exile from Erin —Paul McGuire.
• •
Although quarterly adjustments of the
basic wage were discontinued by the
Federal Arbitration Court last Septem-
ber, the C-series retail price-index on
which the adjustments used to be made
are still issued by the Commonwealth
Statistician. Figures for the December,
1953, quarter were released last week.
Expressed as a percentage-increase, these
were: -r-
Six capitals 9.3
Sydney (decrease) 9.1
Melbourne 9.4
Adelaide 9.4
Brisbane k 5
Hobart k 7
Perth (decrease) 9.6
Had the automatic adjustments still
been in force wages governed by awards
based on living-costs for Sydney or the
six capitals would have been unchanged ;
wage-earners in Melbourne and Ade-
laide would have got an extra Is.; in
Brisbane, 35.; in Hobart, 4s. In Perth
the wage would have dropped 2s.
The figures seem to justify the Federal
Government’s claim that inflation has
been halted, and, although Dr. Evatt
professes to believe that the Australian
housewife is a more reliable guide to
changes in living-costs than the Com-
monwealth Statistician, he is not likely
to substitute a panel of housewives for
Roland Wilson if he comes to power next
election.
• •
So GATT’s got us after all!
• •
Country-party M.H.R. for Wide Bay
(Q.) Bernard Corser has said that
he will retire from politics at the end of
the present Parliament. He has repre-
sented Wide Bay since 1928 and his father
held the seat for 13 years before that.
Only Earle Page and Jos Francis among
present M.H.R.s have had a longer
Federal career than Corser, but he really
entered politics long before either of
them; he was member for Burnett in the
Queensland Assembly from 1912-28. At
Canberra he was Country-party Whip
for several years and a member of the
Joint Committee on Parliamentary
Broadcasts. Illness is the cause of his
standing-down.
• •
When Victorian transport employees
announced refusal to man one-man buses,
Coleman, Minister for Transport, told
reporters that if the tramwaymen wanted
fight the Government would give it to
them. The only trouble with that is that
the public is the punching-bag.
w •
Doc. Evatt in an outburst of synthetic
amazement and disgust at the official
explanation of the Government’s decision
not to send Paul McGuire to Dublin:
Just imagine Australia refusing to
describe General Eisenhower by hxs correct
statement, “President of the United States
of America,” on the grounds that United
States jurisdiction extends only to part of
America and does not include Canada.
The analogy is completely false. The
U.S. does not claim sovereignty over
Canada, as Eire does over Ulster. The
corresponding style to that quoted by
Evatt would be “President of the Republic
of Ireland.” Canberra was prepared to
use that, but Dublin wouldn’t have it.
Queensland Opposition-leader Nicklin:
“If a politician is physically capable of
doing his duty, why shouldn’t he con-
tinue in office?” Most people wouldn’t
worry too much about the physical con-
dition so long as the mental one was
all right.
• •
One of the striking features of the
decoration of State Government build-
ings for the Queen’s visit in Sydney is
the ingenious manner in which the use
of red, white and blue together has been
avoided. The decorators of State Par-
liament House and the Honor-avenue
from the landing-place, however, take
the bun. The color-scheme is yellow and
green—the Irish Republican colors.
• •
Cahill’s first reaction to Press allega-
tions of police officers being bribed by
the two-up industry was that it was
apparently something that happened
while he was away at the Coronation.
Why the alibi? The allegations were
made against members of the N. S. Wales
police force, not against the Premier.
• •
Ironworkers’ secretary, Laurence Short,
at present studying labor conditions in
America, reports that American workers
GOING DOWN FOR THE UMPTEENTH TIME
have less leave and leisure time than
Australians, and in many cases working
conditions are not so good and ruthless
supervision is imposed. On the other
hand he has found that a great many
U.S, workers can afford a new car
every year, television-sets, washing-
machines and other modern appliances.
So far Short seems to be in a quandary
—“I just don’t know who is the better
off.” Keep thinking it over for a while,
Laurence,
• •
Most likely date for the Federal elec-
tion —May 29, or June 5.
• •
A.W.U. official C. T. Oliver, who was
charged with breaking A.L.P. rules by
making a statement opposed to party
policy when he said that his union had
rejected a number of applications for
membership since compulsory-unionism
came into force, was acquitted without
trial. Grounds insufficient evidence.
Whether this means that the A.W.U. can
keep the chicken remains to be seen.
• •
Just as Dr. Evatt was broadcasting
some dirge about Australia being bowed
down under the Menzies Government,
Senator Spooner announced that produc-
11.000 tons in 1949-50 to 17,000 tons,
tion of fencing-wire had increased from
galvanised-iron output jumped from
77.000 tons to 122,000 tons, while steel
fence-posts reached an estimated output
of 11 million. Production of barbed-
wire nearly doubled and that of wire-
netting was up 50 per cent. All land-
men know that 1949-50 was the last
financial year of Federal “Labor ’ Gov-
ernment, when materials for land-man
were scarcer than hen’s-teeth.
• •
Just before Christmas the Westralian
Legislative Council rejected an amend-
ment to the W.A. Industrial Arbitration
Act which would have made it obligatory
for the State Arbitration Court to make
quarterly adjustments to the State basic
wage. Premier Hawke waxed indignant
at the Council’s action which, he said,
provided more evidence of the hostility
of the Liberal and Country parties to-
wards members of trade-unions. Last
Wednesday the c.-0.-l. figures were pub-
lished, and revealed that if Hawke’s bill
had become law Westralian workers
would have dropped 2s. a week through it,
• •
No date has been fixed for the Leich-
hardt by-election to fill the N. S. Wales
Assembly seat left vacant by the death
of C. H. Matthews. Leichhardt is the
suburb whose municipal affairs were put
under the control of a commissioner
after a departmental inquiry into charges
of graft. Subsequent conviction and
fining of ex-mayor Erwin, who was a
likely successor to Matthews, have left
the pre-selection contest in this “Labor
stronghold rather open. ,
• •
Federal executive of the A.C.T.U. has
suspended the Seamen’s Union because
of its refusal to break with the Red
W.F.T.U. Seamen’s secretary E. V.
Elliott attended a meeting of the Moscow
outfit in Vienna last October, and his
explanation or excuse or whatever his
story was called is unacceptable to the
A.C.T.U.
• •
First power from the Snowy Mountains
scheme is expected to be available early
in the second half of this year, when
the generating-plant at Munyang Pond
on the Snowy River should be ready to
go into full production. Two 30,000-
kilowatt generators will deliver the
juice.
• •
“C.Q.”: The Victorian housing prob-
lem entered its sixth or seventh year
with a radical change in the situation.
After the war Government authorities
and all sorts of official bodies rushed in
with the confidence of optimistic
amateurs with vast schemes of collec-
tive building, which were going to wipe
out the shortage in a few years. Land
was resumed, materials were cornered,
panels of architects were requisitioned,
experts researched into all sorts of new
methods, scores of them being sent over-
seas to study conditions in other coun-
tries and restrictions were put on private
building. The net result was that costs
soared and wages and charges sky-
rocketed so high that at the present time
six out of 10 would-be home-owners,
in sheer desperation, have become their
own builders.
• *
“Ex-C.G.”: The Victorian Govern-
ment is tipped to lift the limit of £l5O
which Legislative Assembly candidates
may spend on an election, and the £450
imposed on Legislative Council aspir-
ants. It’s about time a law which few
candidates could possibly obey was
changed, and the move is certain to be
taken up by other States and the Com-
monwealth. “Observance,” generally, is
a farce.
• •
During 1954 the Indian Government is
making a bold attempt to stamp out “un-
touchability” ; a bill is to be introduced
in the next Parliamentary session making
provision for fines of up to £37 or six
months’ imprisonment, or both, for per-
sons “practising untouchability or assist-
ing in it.” Latest estimates place the
number of untouchables at 60 million.
• . •
Work has begun on the second power-
station at Port Augusta (S.A.), which is
to draw its fuel from Leigh Creek coal.
This is the project which Premier Play-
ford has said will be the last orthodox
power-plant erected in South Australia.
After that, the Atomic Age!
• •
Professor Butlin of Sydney University
told the Anzaas conference in Can-
berra that “despite their posturing” the
State Governments did not really want the
tax powers returned to them because they
did not want the responsibility of earning
their living. That seems about right; and
it also seems that, despite its protesta-
tions, the Commonwealth Government
doesn’t want to return ’em the power.
• •
By October, this year, the Vacuum
Oil refinery at Altona (Vic.), where the
Werribee Sewage Farm used to discharge
its effluent, will be in full production and
supplying about 35 p.c. of Australia’s
oil-fuel needs. The refinery’s daily output
will be 770,000 gallons of petrol, jet fuel,
kero, and other distillates.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
'T'HERE I was, squatting in the early-
-*■ morning shade of an oil-drum,
watching a hawk hanging in the air over
Wewak’s coco-palms and trying, as a
black-and-white artist, to nut-out an idea
for a tropic joke-block. Missionaries?
Ah, missionaries! Mild-mannered spec-
tacled men peering helplessly over the
rims of cooking-pots in the shade of out-
size solar topees. There was a throaty
roar, bump, rumble, and a plane rolled
smoothly to a standstill. The pilot, a
lanky tousle-haired bloke in vintage
overalls, put out his fist and said in
American “Hiya! My name’s W .”
The cargo-boys packed in some stuff
and he took off, curling south toward
the mountain. My mate came out of the
"He'll do me all right till I can land a later model."
hangar, had a look and said “Ah, Father
W .” A tiny plane then climbed off
the strip and' cheekily set sail for the
interior. “Who’s that?” I asked. “Oh,”
he said, “that’d be the Bishop.”—
“Ybsul ”
v v v
“Mullum”: Don’t know what Heth’s
amorous experiences have been, but I’ll
guarantee he has never tried what he
made two recent cartoon-characters do:
embrace while sitting on a post-and-rail
fence. Apart from the minor risk of
overbalancing, the greatest passion-killer
is the noise. What noise? Well, don’t
you make a noise when you get a three-
inch splinter in the softest part of your
anatomy?
“Roirp”: Those two airliners crashing
i within five days of each other near Rome,
after having passed through a common
terminal, Beirut, seems too great a coinci-
dence. Evidence from the scene of the
jet-tragedy, indicating an explosion
whilst in flight, strengthens my suspicions
of sabotage. I felt the same about a
series of crashes in Papua during the
war. All occurred immediately after
take-off from Seven-mile Strip, Moresby,
and all involved American reconnais-
sance bombers. About five aircraft
crashed in as many weeks, one diving
into an Australian infantry-unit camped
at the end of the strip and due to depart
that morning for the Kokoda trail. Many
Diggers died or were shockingly in-
jured. The Americans seemed slow to
realise that anything was wrong. Then
they acted fast. A check showed that
two men were common to the mainten-
ance crews that had attended all doomed
aircraft. A quick trial and a quick dis-
patch, but the criminals died well satis-
fied with their dreadful handiwork. I
trust the Civil Aviation authorities con-
cerned in the recent crashes will make a
similar check.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: My eight-year-old must
be a slightly advanced student in the
same school of thought as the six-year-
old (B. 13/l/’54) who accredited pro-
duction of his kitten to the tomcat rather
than to Santa Claus. Asked recently if
his mother bred dachshunds, mine re-
plied ; “No, Mitzi has the pups;
Mummy only sells ’em.”
*l* ♦>
“Dicky”: Language-difficulties abroad
are legion, but sign-language can reach
expansive conversational heights at times,
so we were able to make the owner of the
little inn in an out-of-the-way village in
Austria understand that we wanted
something warm to put in our tummies.
The difficult part was for her to explain
the menu. The problem was solved as
she led us into the kitchen, pointed to the
saucepans on the range and stood
smilingly back, awaiting our choice. We
lifted the lids, sniffed, entered into confab
and either shook our heads or nodded
energetically at the delighted owner. A
friend of ours failed to meet with like
success. Going into an inn to ask for a
room, he came out again, slightly dazed,
clutching three bread-rolls.
“Yakipan”: Salvation at last for the
men of Britain! No longer must they
endure a spate of unwanted ties or socks
for Christmas or birthdays. Now the
little women can spring a few bob at the
nearest outfitters, and receive therefor a
Men’s Wear Token. This is sent to our
hero, who then exchanges it at his out-
fitters for an article of the value of stamps
affixed to the token. Get enough cards
and you can even buy a suit. Should be
adopted here. The Japs have been using
the gift-coupon idea for the past 30 years
to my knowledge,
*
“Kalo”: “Jemac’s” notion that the
U-boat commander would clear away,
instead of remaining beneath the convoy
as suggested by Commander Ericson in
The Cruel Sea (B. 13/l/’54), is refuted
by actual experience as related in Lowell
Thomas’s Raiders of the Deep. The
famous U-boat commander Hersing told
Thomas that, after his first attack on an
Allied convoy, from which he narrowly
escaped, he adopted the policy of diving
under the steamers and staying there while
destroyers peppered the surrounding
waters. “Of course,” he said, “there was
always the chance that the torpedoed ship
“Like it?”
might sink on top of us, just as later
happened to Von Arnauld. But I
preferred that risk.”
“Curtain Raiser”; Melbourne Customs
are at their old game of banning once
more; they have just put on the index
Female Sexuality (a scientific work).
The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis and
Corpus of Joe Bailey, a story of Ameri-
can co-education. A member of the
Victorian Booksellers’ Association who
has read all three says he found nothing
immoral in them, and asks if the Cus-
toms Department is restarting its foolish
campaign of banning books because of
their titles. I wouldn’t be surprised—it
once banned Miss Sackville West’s All
Passion Spent because it appeared in the
invoice as All Passion, and subsequently
discovered that it was the story of a
woman more than 80 years old.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“Jasby”: Cracksmen in the Army (B.
20/1/’54)? I recall a time when it was
thought that some experts in that line
were at work. A detachment from our
unit was required to supply a guard for
the cookhouse of a working-party build-
ing coastal fortifications near Port
Moresby. Night after night, despite the
best vigilance of our sentries, tea, sugar,
butter and other items disappeared from
the cookhouse. It was apparent that
intelligence of no mean order was be-
hind the depredations, and we rather
resented the suggestion of the working-
party O.C. that we were falling down on
our job as sentries. Finally he got quite
browned-off and discontinued the guard.
This was very foolish, as it meant an end
to all hopes of catching the culprits.
Still, fortune sometimes favors fools,
and we heard later that the losses ceased
the very day we left the area.
“Narumee”: In Bristol (Eng.) they
have finished with their last ancient steam-
roller, But instead of scrapping it they
have installed it, to end its days with
honor and glory, in a children’s play-
ground, to be clambered on and “driven”
by countless thrilled small boys. There
would be more than enough trams to
provide idyllic playthings for Melbourne’s
kids —if only Melbourne’s trams were to
be jettisoned instead of multiplied! Did
city tramway-moguls see the announce-
ment from London that 300 lives had been
saved last year since trams were removed
over there?
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Uramao”: What has been termed the
most outstanding art-gift in the Southern
Hemisphere has been made to the
Dunedin Public Art Gallery, New Zealand
—a collection of watercolors by such
British artists as Thomas Girtin, Peter de
Wint, Turner, Gainsborough, John
Ruskin, Rowlandson, Samuel Prout,
David Cox and Cotman. Gallery director
Mrs. A. Pearce on a trip abroad had
viewed the art displays of the Old
Country, and since her return had cor-
responded with an art-connoisseur con-
cerning the gift of a 15th-century MS. he
had made to the gallery. Though she had
not met him, correspondence revealed
that the Yen. Archdeacon F. H. D. Smyth
had conceived a great affection for New
Zealanders while chaplain to the British
forces in both wars. He told her that he
intended making a gift of from 60 to 70
pictures to Dunedin Gallery, and the
astonishment of the gallery authorities was
great when the gift turned out to be 202!
The archdeacon made his handsome gift
“as a token of regard for New Zealanders
who had come to the rescue of the Home-
land so gallantly.” “It would be impos-
sible to measure the value of the gift in
terms of money,” said the A.G. director.
* ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: Crime in films some-
times does pay. C. L. A. Abbott, one-
time Northern Territory Administrator,
gives one example in his book Australia’s
Frontier Province. Darwin Binghis loved
gangster films —so when one of these
film-addicts, sent back to Bathurst Island,
saw a Jap pilot parachuting to earth he
knew what to do. Creeping up as the
Jap sprawled at the end of his ’chute-
cords, Binghi snatched the pistol from
its holster and pressed it hard into the
Jap ribs —with a request to “Stick ’em
up!” That prisoner was the first Jap
flyer to be captured in those parts.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Harbel”: “I see our firm’s advertising
for girls,” said the acquaintance on the
workmen’s-train. “Hope they get ’em.”
It was refreshing to strike an employee
so concerned with his firm’s affairs. I
said so. “Well, it’s not altogether that,”
he confessed, “but if they get all the girls
they want everything will go along nice
and peacefully. If they don’t, then the
panic will start. First they’ll advertise
conditions, then concessions, then ameni-
ties ; but if they ever get to ‘music-while-
you-work’ again . . .” There was a
desperate expression in his eyes as he
added earnestly; “Have you ever tried to
wiggle a tiny nut into a minute hole,
in an awkward place, with the temperature
about 102 and the humidity around 98,
and just when you’ve nearly got the thing
in after it had fallen out 73 times a mad
Yankee suddenly screeches on a banshee
trumpet ‘Whee-YEE, yee-yee-yee-yee-
YEE-HEEEEE’ ? ”
♦♦♦ ❖ <*
“O. K. Lee”: That speculation as to
the underwear sported by Maoris and
clerics (B, 13/1/ ’54) brought back a
memory. When I first started trading in
the Torres Strait Islands, I was surprised
at the number of brilliantly-hued milanese
panties bought by hirsute bucks, and con-
cluded that gallantry was widespread
among our sable clientele. Till I found
out that the nifty nether garments were
worn by the bucks themselves under their
lava-lavas —and that the Binghi belles (by
report) clothed that particular part in stout
calico.
“ENCHANTED”
“N. S. Wales Premier Cahill said that decora-
tions and illuminations would make Sydney ‘an
enchanted city’ for the Royal tour.”
Sydney is to be “enchanted”
Premier Cahill has descanted:
Public buildings, grim and dour,
Lit-up for the Royal tour.
Probably the Conservatorium,
Our stable musical emporium,
Will be most representative
Of the State in which we live —
Mysterious notes on unseen wire
Escaping from a golden lyre . . .
“Enchantment,” in its civic sense,
Is new to our experience :
True, some of us, a year ago,
Were “staggered” by the liquor show,
And some confessed themselves
“astounded”
At aldermanic crimes propounded.
And lately others, gunned and dunned
Into the unions, have been “stunned,”
And “Granny’s” readers all expect
Shocking disclosures in her next
By which their lives may be enriched,
Bedazed, bewildered and bewitched.
But never since we were short-panted
Have many of us been “enchanted."
Yes, for our flabbergasted nation
Enchantment is an importation.
And all our spells will end in dither
Unless our young Queen brings it with
her. s
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


SPEECHES seem to be the only form
of entertainment contemplated by
Victorian politicians and civic leaders
for the Royal visit. This seems a pity,
and shows great lack of imagination. I
don’t know what any Victorian poli-
tician is good at except talking, and
most of them aren’t very good at that,
but surely Cain and his Ministers and
the Lud Mayor and his fellow-Bumbles
would be capable of putting on a very
entertaining pie-eating competition. I’m
sure H.M, and her consort would enjoy
it better. —“Craiser.”
♦j*
“Brick E.”: One of a party inspecting
historic Elizabeth Bay House, built on
the shores of Port Jackson by Col.
Macleay in 1823, I admired with a
“Let's play mothers and fathers!"
tradesman’s eye the massively-built cedar
doors and elaborate architraves, the mag-
nificent elliptical reception-hall with its
self - supporting semi - elliptical stone
staircase rising to an internal balcony,
and its dome fully 45ft. above the floor.
A moment of silent praise for the long-
dead craftsman who carved the wooden
figurettes which support the top of a
fine writing-desk in the hall, then we
were guided to the basement. Here, at
the end of a passage, a discussion arose:
what had this been used for? It was a
series of stone shelves about sft. long,
3ft. wide,, with approximately 2ft. 6in.
between tiers. Ingenious minds sub-
mitted that convicts were chained in
the compartments so they could not sit,
stand or stretch out. A mild voice in
the gloom near me spoke: “Obviously
the shelves were merely used for storage.”
I was the only seconder —and the pair
of us felt we were lucky to escape being
lynched. Sydneysiders will endure a lot,
but let no man think he can rob them
of their convict-horrors with impunity.
“X.”: Melbourne home-owners suffer-
ing from the Board of -Works’ ban on
sprinklers have been expressing indig-
nation at the sight of a fountain spouting
gaily in Spring-street. This is
the fountain with the naked little
boy upon it, and the falcons and
dolphins carved by a convict in
Pentridge, It wasn’t breaking the
regulation, however. It has an
automatic pump and uses the same
water repeatedly. A photo of
the incident in “The Age” re-
quires some explanation, though.
It depicted half-a-dozen kids dis-
porting in the pool naked. The
Collingwood councillor who said
that Melbourne’s public statuary
was indecent ought to have some-
thing to say about this.
“Narumee”: The second sprinkler-ban
of the season has Melbourne dailies in
.transports of indignation. The ban was
imposed because some outer suburbs were
getting no water at all. No one in our
street owns a sprinkler, yet the gardens
show no signs of drought. Local
gardeners evidently don’t think standing
about with a hose as devastating a hard-
ship as it is obviously considered by some
whose bank balances may be bigger than
our gardens,
* ❖ *
“Antim Sulph”: A pox on “Bo” and his
kind (B. 6/1/’54). They are quite willing
to queue for a tram or a haircut, but when
something complicated like a prescrip-
tion is to be dispensed they want it in
30 seconds flat. They are perfectly pre-
pared to ignore all others who are before
them. Even with tablets it takes a good
quarter of an hour to copy, record—if
it is a “potent drug”—count, type labels
and then check. As a chemist of 25
years’ wrestling with such as “Bo,” it
makes me itch and scratch when they
start their impatient routine. Admittedly,
no time is lost entering the transaction
on their account —I just don’t trust these
impatient stinkers.
“Macnell”: Jets thrown in, there is
probably no aircraft of recent years
which has developed so rapidly, both in
performance and uses, as the once depre-
catingly-accepted helicopter. And no
one appreciates
this fact more than
the pilots who flew
jets over Korea.
Now the R.N. has
formed the first
squadron of anti-
submarine helicop-
ters, These power-
ful gyraters will
operate, in war, in
close support of
convoys, and thus,
lifting from a plat-
form on a mer-
chantman, will close
that dangerous
War II gap in the
Atlantic which
shore - based
fighters could not
reach. Submarines
sneaking into a
harbor will appear
to a hovering heli-
copter like cigars
plainly set in green
jelly. And the air-
craft will be fitted
with a newly-
devised sonobuoy which, lowered into
the sea from 20ft. above, will pick up
engine-sounds of a submerged sub,
without giving away the seeker’s
presence, as a destroyer clearly would.
Gone, also, is the old belief that
helicoptermen could be 61d pilots
finished with handling fast aircraft.
Helicopting these days calls for un-
usual skill, and the R.N. is con-
sidering forming a special branch
composed entirely of young, highly-
trained whirligiggers.
“ Hey , there , girlie—is that barrel full?”
“Vingter”: The film convention that
all baddies must die cravenly (B. 13/1 /’54)
may be right enough, but real-life
criminals sometimes maintain their
callous mien to the end. Griffin, the Rock-
hampton (Q.) Goldfields Commissioner
who poisoned two troopers who rode with
him on the Clermont gold-escort, surveyed
the crowd from the scaffold and audibly
classified them, in true aristo style, as
canaille. After which he enjoined the
hangman to get on with the job and
walked without flinching to the centre of
the platform. Possibly the last man to
be executed in Queensland was one
Fernandez, a U.S. soldier sentenced under
U.S. Army law for kicking a woman to
death. He surveyed the blue Brisbane sky
above the Boggo-road jailyard, remarked
“It’s a fine day for it,” and stepped from
there to Eternity.
& * *
“Cauboy”'; As a theatre- and concert-
goer I have often been impelled to make
adverse comments about Press photo-
graphers who hop up in the middle of a
performance and set off an explosion and
a blinding flash of light taking a photo of
a prima donna with her mouth open a
yard wide. A better deed was done by a
cameraman of a Melbourne daily who
was snapping a picnic at Coburg Lake.
Suddenly dropping his camera he dived
into the lake and fished out a girl revealed
in his rangefinder as sinking beneath the
surface. Having effected the rescue he
resumed his professional status and photo-
graphed the damsel reviving herself with
a soft drink.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Kerba”: The Voice of Experience —
feminine variety—giving advice to a
younger girl in my bus: “It’s hot the big
things they do that make you want to
choke ’em, it’s the fussy, old-maidish
habits they develop. Look at my old man
—got no real vices, no bad faults; he’s
not what you’d call hard to get on with,
but one day I’ll bash him with the bed-
lamp, as sure as eggs. Of all the old-
women when he’s getting ready for bed!
I just lie there and know exactly what he’ll
do next. But I can endure all his fiddle-
faddling till he takes his underpants off.
He holds ’em up- by the waist-band like
this” (demonstrates with hanky). “Then
he inspects ’em first one side then the
other —for fleas or wogs or something—
then he shakes ’em —once, twice, three
times. It’s like a ritual. If he’d only
forget one night, or do it four times or
only twice! But no; it has to be —one . . .
two . . . three. And it’ll be on the third
shake I’ll murder him, when I do.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Willpar”: My wife and child had
spent the day with a friend; after work
I joined them. As olir baby was running
a slight temperature we left before the
night air became too cool. My car, four-
gear variety, is difficult to drive at the
regulation 30 m.p.h. in top-gear. I was
therefore beetling along the highway at
a steady 35, my minimum. Imagine my
feelings when a large black car sneers
up beside me and the long arm of the
law waves me into the gutter. “Poetic
justice,” I curse. “They never stop me
when I’m doing fifty.” “The sick baby,”
prompts my wife, as a dark form ambles
up. “Look, officer,” I get in first, “I
don’t suppose you’ll listen to excuses, but
the baby’s very sick and we’re hurrying
her home to bed.” A long pause as he
assumes a mocking attitude of patience by
resting both hands on the open window.
“That’s all right, sir,” he cooes sweetly.
“Your tail-light is out.”
* * ❖
I’ve long admired Mark
Twain’s aptness of expression—espe-
cially his description of an illiterate man:
“As unlettered as the backside of a tomb-
stone.” But now, passing through a
portion of Rookwood (N.S.W.) Cemetery,
which is old enough to have lost its heart-
aches, I have seen a tombstone actually
lettered on the back. The inscription was
cut in both English and Chinese, but
other Chinese graves dispel the thought
that lettering on the back of headstones
may be an Eastern custom. Anyway, it
wasn’t such a bad idea: anybody looking
for that grave could easily detect it from
the main path, and, after all, that is what
an inscription is basically for.
♦♦♦ ❖
“G.”: In a drunken-driving case at
Caulfield (Vic.), constable said in evidence
that accused’s speech was blurred and his
eyes diluted. Pressed by ’Sonah for a
definition of “diluted,” cop said “Glassy,
protruding, staring, watery.”
* * ❖
“F.S.”: Going round a Melbourne con-
temporaries’ exhibition with an artist who
is not of the contemporary persuasion,
I felt a question nagging me. Every
physiognomy had the same blank, stupid,
melancholy or meaningless expression;
after looking at the sculptures, which all
had the same dead-pan look, I asked:
“WThy do modernists always wait until
their models are in a state of acute de-
pression?” His reply came as a revela-
tion. “They don’t,” he said. “They
simply haven’t sufficient skill to differ-
entiate between the moods of their
sitters.” That this was nearer the truth
than the contemporaries’ theories about
self-expression was confirmed when we
came to the landscapes. They were
variously labelled “Morning,” “Evening,”
“Spring,” “Autumn,” “Winter,” and so
forth, right through every mood of
Nature, but they all had the same lack-
life as the statues and the portraits.
♦> *
“C. 8.”: Several obsequies have
been carried out in Melbourne in which
the deceased left instructions that his
ashes should be scattered over the ocean.
But there was one proposed ceremony
which didn’t come off. One of Vic-
toria’s best-known graziers willed that
his remains were to be driven from his
home in Toorak in a haycart to his sta-
tion in the Western District by his dray-
man. The clause was removed only
after long persuasion.
❖ ❖
“Uramao”: An Enzed clergyman,
back from the U.S., hasn’t quite re-
covered from the broadsides of adver-
tising on radio and television. Even the
undertakers —or “morticians” as they are
dubbed in the dollar-domain —go in for
it. “Is seepage disturbing your loved
ones?” one body-snatcher advertises;
then elaborates on the waterproof
coffins he can turn out at a moment’s
notice.
NEW VALUES
“The belief that women are naturally at-
tracted to big, powerful men is nourished by
writers of fiction, but it doesn’t sort with the
facts. Many are repelled by excessive muscular
development. Somft of the happiest women
are married to almost puny men.” —Womens
magazine.
When woman wore a bearskin (yes.
That’s how it’s spelled!), lived in a
cave.
And copped a heavy club unless
She quickly learned how to behave,
She looked upon the big brute-man
(This may seem quite an aberration),
Despite his having a hairy pan
And being a disciplinarian,
Mostly with deepest adulation.
Instead of, as in this our Age,
Speaking with pride of hat or dress.
She’d boast —how other wives would
rage ! —
Of her lord’s real bone-crush caress.
She’d clasp his barrel-chest, all coy,
Shuddering not that it was gory
From Titan battle; and — oh, boy !
His iron-tough biceps were her joy,
A rippling, fascinating glory.
Such he-man worship had a cause,
Of course; she was a muscle-fdn
Simply through one of Nature’s laws:
His strength ensured her of her scran.
Tempus mutantur! That’s gone now.
Women have dumped \ the muscle-
racket :
Anachronistic stuff, they vow;
Superfluous, too, as you’ll allow.
Seeing they all can earn a packet.
Man-mountain, let your ego shrink!
Your forty-eight-inch chest’s a. flop;
Your bulging biceps on the blink,
You’re voted, frankly, not much chop.
The skinny runt’s now king indeed;
As new ideal he is depicted.
Wives very highly praise the breed —
Natural, too, you must concede,
In view of this: to puff a weed
This century wives are much addicted.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


NPNB6O
* I
on TAA s
CO NVAIR and DC6 SERVICES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lawrence Percival Coombes, D.F.C.,
owns a world reputation in the science
of flying and a regular kite’s-tail of
scientific labels tagged to his name. The
other day he added another —Fellowship
of the U.S. Institute of Aeronautical
Sciences. Now chief of aerodynamics at
the Aeronautical Research Laboratory,
Coombes was boss of C.SJ.R.O.’s aero-
nautics division for the whole of War II
and for three years after it, was earlier
chief scientist of the British Air Ministry
(at the time when Spits and Hurricanes
were being conceived for their nation-
saving role), and in War I flew with the
embryo R.N. Air Service. One-time co-
pilot with Kingsford Smith, he’s 54;
born, Madras.
• •
Retired after 51 years with the
P.M.G.’s department, H. G. Kuhn, of
Melbourne. He can remember when it
was an offence to transmit gramophone-
music over telephone-wires, an offence
the A.B.C. now commits daily.
• •
Enzedder John Hutton will design
the glass panels for the west front of the
new Coventry Cathedral (Eng.). They
will consist of 60 figures occupying the
whole wall-front of 70ft. by 50ft. Hutton’s
work on the Runnymede Memorial com-
memorating the Commonwealth Air
Forces (unveiled recently by the Queen)
won him high praise and earned him the
Coventry assignment. A self-taught artist,
who left N.Z. for the Old Country 15
years ago, Hutton is chairman of the
Society of Mural Painters and teaches
mural-painting at the Goldsmiths College
of Arts, London. Forty-seven, he’s
married to a daughter of Justice Blair,
of the N.Z. Supreme Court. An exhibi-
tion of his work will be held in Welling-
ton this year.
• •
“D.R.”: Toowoomba (Q.) is quite
“alive” theatrically and some of its play-
ers reach a high standard. One, George
Roubicek, shows such promise that the
city has established a scholarship fund
to send him overseas to study at the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in Lon-
don. Other artists, if considered worthy
enough by impartial authorities, may
subsequently follow him abroad. For
example, a young 17-year-old pianist,
Rodney Sigston, is being sent to Mel-
bourne Conservatorium by Rotary, and
the scholarship fund hopes to be able
to add to that assistance by providing
him with further study in Australia or
overseas.
• •
“Macnell” farewells a marine duke:
Passed on in London, the Duke of Mont-
rose, a wandering peer who saw more of the
world’s seven seas than of his estates in Scot-
land. A master-mariner and holder of 10
titles, Montrose had two pre-eminent “firsts”
to his credit. The “maximum ‘opus’ of my
life,” as he described it in his autobiography,
was the creation of the Royal Navy Volunteer
Reserve. Acutely conscious of the need of an
expanded Navy, on Trafalgar Day, 1899,
Montrose organised an open meeting for
recruits to the Reserve. It was crowded out,
200-odd young men signing-up there and then.
The Admiralty supported him, and in 1903
Montrose became the first commissioned officer
of a reserve force which was to win the respect
of the permanent Navy in two wars. In War I
he became the first Reserve officer to reach
rank of commodore.
In 1912 he submitted plans for a revolution-
ary type of ship to the Admiralty. The top
brass was impressed, but the start of War I
shelved the Duke’s plans. When, in 1915, he
was appointed chairman of the engineering-
section of the Board of Inventions he sur-
faced his own plans. And so, in 1918, was
commissioned H.M.S. Argus, the world’s first
aircraft-carrier.
Montrose came to Australia in 1895, with
him on board two passengers named Lawson
and Wentworth, grandsons of the Blue Moun-
tains men. After a trip to the Mountains,
Montrose returned to Sydney, entered a tattoo-
ing-shop on the waterfront, and was grabbed
by three toughs, one of whom asserted threaten-
ingly that he was the middleweight champion
of Australia. The young Duke considered dis-
cretion the better part, and had a thistle tattooed
on his arm —a little less than the “wrist-to-
armpit” coverage reported in two Sydney
dailies the other day. He was 75 at the end.
Sound-barrier smashing has now been
brought into the realm of civilian-flying
by a young Gippsland farmer, Neil Mac-
Innes, of Tinamba, a Citizen Air Force
pilot now in England. He made the
boom-boom with a Sabre at North
Luffenham as the guest of a Royal
Canadian Air Force fighter-squadron. He
was a transport-pilot in War 11.
• •
Out to the Last Bowler at 70, Warren
Bardsley, former Australian Test left-
hand opening batsman. In England with
four Australian teams between 1909-26,
he scored more than 2000 runs on each
of his first three trips and 1600 on his
last (when he was 42). On the first two
tours he had the best aggregate and
average. He played in 41 Tests in all, 30
against England; in first-class cricket he
made 53 centuries, the first Australian to
reach the 50-mark. He was one of two
Australians to make two centuries in the
one Test, and one of four who’ve batted
unconquered right through a Test innings.
This was in the Lord’s Test in 1926 (193
not out, his highest Test score). Of this
innings the 1927 Wisden said “Had he
accomplished nothing else he would have
justified his selection, and he was once
again a tower of strength to the side.”
Fanatically keen on cricket, and dour, like
his batting, he was a good fellow, always
popular with his team-mates.
• •
Touring Europe now, after a look-in
at scientific conferences in London and
Rome, B. V. D, Skerman has had his
travels extended by a grant from the
Carnegie Corporation of New York.
The award covers a year visiting U.S.
scientific institutions. Skerman is chief
lecturer in charge of Queensland Uni-
versity’s bacteriology department.
• •
Walter Osborne, a nuggety cove with
a phiz somewhat the shape of a genially-
crinkled pear, came into the firefighting
game with the 1909 Act which consti-
tuted the N.S.W. Board of Fire Commis-
sioners. The other day he became the
board’s secretary. He’s seen the
organisation grow from 23 stations, 200-
odd firemen and 16 horse-drawn fire-
engines to its present strength of 247
brigades in the State, just under 270
gleaming red monsters and an annual
estimate of expenditure of £1,850,000.
In the early days Osborne, junior clerk,
had little else but a couple of pencils
FIRE-ENGINES
to worry about; now his worries take in
the board’s own clothing- and boot-fac-
tories, an electrical department servic-
• , , . - „ . , , ,
in 8 hundreds of alarms, telephones and
suchlike and a huge workshop servicing
—and constructing—fire-engines. He
should manage all right—he was sarge
... ~ , ct -. u n „ 6
w dh the old 55th Battalion in France
for three years.
The genial gentleman here Coventrated
goes under the name of Norman Lane
Jude. Since the other day he sails under
the additional tag of Minister of Local
Government, Roads and Railways in
Playford’s Cabinet. Coming to these parts
from England as a Barwell-boy migrant,
Jude decided he’d see what the South
Australian earth would give him in the
way of a living. S.A. earth being what
STEAM-ENGINES
it is, that living depended on what was
in the farmer. Farmer turned out all
right—he now owns a healthy property
at Hynam (breeding fat lambs), is a
member of the Stockowners’ Association
and of most civic associations round
Naracoorte, and, since 1944, has repre-
sented Southern Division in the State
Legislative Council. In days when he was
a little leaner he represented his State at
hockey.
• •
Passed on in Perth at 88, Nathaniel
Harper, goldfields identity with a long
association with grazing, farming and
business activities in Westralia. Born in
north Ireland, he emigrated to New
Zealand in 1883, had his first experience
of mining there and went on to work on
Tasmanian mines and at Broken Hill
before crossing to Westralia to manage
a mine at Southern Cross in 1892. Later
he bought a mine own, the Koh-
i-nor. After a trip to America and
Europe he took on farming at Brookton,
and represented Beverley, and then
Pingelly, in the State Assembly. Leav-
ing politics and active mine-management
to others, he acquired grazing property
near Exmouth Gulf, real-estate in Perth
and interests in several businesses. His
claim to have been the first to suggest
the Goldfields Water Supply Scheme has
been the subject of much controversy.
• •
For “distinguished service to horti-
culture in the course of his employment,”
the council of the Royal Horticultural
Society has awarded an associateship of
honor to M. J. Barnett, Director of Parks
and Reserves in Christchurch (N.Z.).
After years of effort Barnett has suc-
ceeded in making the Flat City the garden-
city of the Fernland, and its botanic
gardens something to see. The award,
given to few outside Britain, is limited
to 100. The only other New Zealander
to win it was David Tannock, of Dun-
edin’s public gardens.
• •
Prominent American cattle-breeder
John E. Rice, of Wyoming, will judge
Poll Hereford cattle at the next Sydney
Royal Show. Invited also to judge the
champion steer of the Show and the
final of the beef-cattle paraders’ compe-
titions, Rice has bred Poll Herefords for
21 years ; one of his bulls, Plato Domino
36th, has sired a world-record-price son
and daughter. The judge will take in as
many Poll Hereford studs in Australia as
possible before starting work at Sydney
Royal.
Joseph Quinn, of the Apple Isle, now
in Melbourne, reckons Tatt.’s will be a
good thing for Victoria—anyway, as
superintendent of the Hobart consulta-
tion for 34 years he observed that 46
per cent, of the hopeful aspirants for
prizes belonged to the Cabbage State. He
was secretary to Joe Lyons when that
subsequent Prime Minister was Tasmanian
Treasurer, and has since been secretary
to a succession of Treasurers.
• •
“Jemac”: Societeer “Mac Hoots” (B.
20/l/,’54) could possibly have had more
to fear than libel in revealing the name
of his country-town barber —one axe-
man who’ll contest seven wood-chopping
events at Sydney’s next Royal Easter is,
by normal occupation, a hairdresser.
N. E. Parbery, he hails from Ulong
(N.S.W.) and was reared in the Dorrigo
timber area. Also, let no one tackle, in
print or otherwise, a cove with the
apparently innocuous trade of hat-
blocker. One who owns to that occu-
pation, C. J. Lavis, of Sydney’s Epping,
last year took his hat off, tackled his
block and came second in the underhand-
chopping championship at the same
Show, and he’s due to have a go at 14
events this year.
• •
0.8. E. in the supplementary New
Year’s honors, Eric Leslie Cook, of Mel-
bourne, research and development
assistant-secretary in the Supply De-
partment. It recognises his outstanding
service as secretary of the panel control-
ling arrangements in Australia for the
atomic tests.
• •
On a four-months visit to Australia,
Brigadier Pepper, Warden of London
House, the residential centre where
students doing post-graduate work from
all over the Commonwealth forgather.
From Melbourne alone 300 professional
men have passed through it since it was
opened in 1930. The brig, wants old
boys’ associations established and
financial support from interested people.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, at 39, C. E. Davies, chairman
of directors and managing-editor of the
“Mercury” since 1946. The “Mercury” has
been the family’s paper since a Davies founded
it in 1854; C.E, was the sixth member to
direct it.
In Perth, at 47, Andrew George Irvine,
A.I.F. gunner and Westralian public servant.
He was in charge of the tenancy section of
the State Housing Commission until appointed
acting-secretary last October. In War II he
was staff-captain, Fremantle Fortress, and
served afterwards with the 7th Heavies.
At Fulham (S.A.), at 83, Samuel Albert
White, one of Australia’s noted ornithologists,
and for 10 years State Chief-Commissioner of
Boy Scouts. At one time one of the 10
colonial members admitted to the British
Ornithologists’ Union, he discovered several
bird-specimens previously unknown in Austra-
lia. One of these, the night-parrot, he searched
10 years for. He led eight expeditions into
Centralia, had stayed on in Africa after the
Boer War for the same expeditionary purpose,
and he wrote extensively on his subject. His
home-collection of native birds drew scientists
from over the world.
At 69, Arthur Mottershead, senior-master
at The Armidale School (N.S.W.) for 25 years
and acting-head in 1935 and 1948. Dux of
Sydney High School, he took a first-class in
maths at Sydney University, and was a good
all-rounder. One of his sons, Noel, now a
professor at Chico University, California, was
an inter-’varsity and State athletic champion.
In Perth, at 70, Thomas Henry Wilson,
retired farmer, who left the teaching profes-
sion in 1908 to become one of Westralia’s
leading agriculturists, starting on 1000 acres at
Wyalkatchem. First J.P. of that district, he
was councillor, treasurer and past-president of
the State R.A.S. and first chairman of the
Westralian Milk Board. Also, he was the oldest
member of the committee of the W.A. Royal
Automobile Club, which he joined 31 years ago,
and of which he was twice president. He
founded the Australian Automobile Association
and organised the first motor-trip across the
Nullarbor Plain,
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 70, Harry Godber,
closely identified with soccer for many years.
He managed the Dominion team which toured
Australia in 1933.
At 48, in England, Major Guy Turnbull, an
Enzedder who settled over there after War 11.
One-time international hockey-player, he was
at the home of a cousin, O. G. Turnbull, a
Davis Cup man, when he was killed by the
accidental discharge of a gun while shooting
at Windsor.


(feT At~j OP AT 6£uu6RCOK ; cWg/ ?
d >
/% uo&Oj eosff, '/sgj goco p.Ais> .,
V.J.. , r .
<jhcO &*Jou &&T } o
(jooQ €o§S , 'tux? ‘fipirtTS •
* j JJ
/ [uoo eottir£ I TfIAT ; 6 NkCTT CWCH GAltij f
'(too «WHS (UJVS&j t-ar OP RAIM P<2R.
unue ujce SeU.SROOf'y, BoSs/
WEATHER REPORT


ABORIGINALITIES
nrOOWOOMBA, on Queensland’s Dar-
ling Downs, has just the right sort of
native-sounding name to fit a corroboree ;
which may be one reason why it has been
chosen as the site of the one and only
aboriginal Royal Command performance
to be staged for the Queen during her
Commonwealth tour. The protagonists
will be a contingent of N.T. natives.
Probably the first of such “official”
aboriginal displays on the Downs was
that arranged last century to honor Sir
Joshua Peter Bell, baron of Jimbour, on
his return-home after receiving his knight-
hood. Station-manager Henry Ensor
(senior) posted two specially-picked
physical specimens of the district’s tribes-
men at the entrance to Jimbour House,
each standing on top of a massive stone
gate-post. Dressed in loincloths, one
with a spear and the other with a
boomerang, the noble savages posed in a
motionless attitude of hurling their respec-
tive missiles without batting an eyelid until
the brand-new knight passed triumphantly
through the gates. Sir Joshua is said to
have been so impressed by the originality,
brilliance and happy topicality of the per-
formance that he presented the two in
the tableau with a pursp.—“Horncastle.”
* * * ♦
“Ybsul”; Nothing new under the sun,
eh? We hove-to on Minj airstrip (N.G.)
“Pep it up , you starboard scum!”
just as rain put a damper on the big
sing-sing. Like a swarm of highly-
colored bees, nearly 5000 little men
streamed past heading for shelter, and
some of ’em packed in under the plane’s
wings. They’d done the limit in decora-
tion and armament for the occasion;
faces were painted red, black, blue and
yellow. An overpowering smell of curry
made us lick our chops and sniff the
breeze. The yellow paint!
“Bogaduck”: I’d add to the recent
listing here of our big trees one on the
Atherton Tableland (N.Q.) as the most
impressive-looking specimen the giant
fig at Kerai. In the centre is a maze of
trunks about 30ft. in diameter. Outside
this aerial roots have reached the ground,
banyan-fashion, and have grown into
more trunks. Outside these again are
more roots’ 1 on their way groundward.
Overhead the foliage blots out a huge
section of sky, and in the forks of the
limbs grow gigantic staghorns, ferns and
all manner of orchids. One of the chaps
in my Second A.I.F. unit measured the
spread of the head and estimated that it
covered well over an acre of ground,
while the use of a shadow-stick showed
its height to be over 150 ft. A Yank who
viewed it said if it grew in the U.S.
“Folk would drive clean across the con-
tinent to look at it.”
♦ * ♦ •
“Old-timer”; Lanny had lived in his
hut in the bend since anyone could
remember, but when he began having
blackouts and was twice or thrice found
only just in time the police decided on a
change and sent him off to an Old Men’s
home. A fortnight later he was back.
When the police came for him he poked
a d.-b. gun through his door and made
threats. The Law left one man on guard.
Withdrew, got a summons charging Lanny
with insanity, returned and, waiting its
chance, disarmed and captured him. In
court evidence of his senility and erratic
behavior resulted in a committal to an
asylum. Six weeks later he was back, but
before anything could be done he jumped
in the river and was drowned. How he
escaped and travelled just on 300 miles
each time is a matter for guesswork. But
the achievements show what an old bush-
man is capable of when determined.
* * * *
“Sebak”: A tunnelling job in the
Allawah (N.S.W.) district was well
advanced when experienced miners at
the rockface claimed that, from sounds
audible in the rock, their tunnel was very
close to the one driving to meet them.
They were assured that more than 20ft.
of solid rock still separated the gangs.
Then a man drilling into the face
suddenly found that all resistance had
gone. He withdrew the drill and looked
in the hole. An eye Was looking back
at him. By a million-to-one chance he
had drilled directly on to the end of a
hole bored from the other side.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Rainbow-birds, bee-
eaters, golden swallows—all the names
are apt. There’s nothing more like an
animated rainbow than their orange-
bronze-blue bodies flashing in the sun-
light ; they have the fast, swerving flight
of the swallow; and they certainly eat
bees. By the same token they dispose of
a lot of blowflies, too, and this service to
mankind is often their undoing—a
parasite breeds among the insect remains
that litter their nests, and the maggots
attack the young. The birds are migrants,
coming down from the north in W.A. at
the end of each winter and staying through
the summer. They arrive and leave in
flocks, and it’s a grand sight to wake one
morning and see them flashing past the
windows. But there’s one problem I’ve
never solved. How do the young learn to
fly? The fledglings of tree-nesting birds
see their parents constantly on the wing,
they’re accustomed to height, and they
can make their first flight from a limb.
The young rainbow-birds have none of
these advantages. Their parents build a
nest at the end of a tunnel, usually about
2ft, long, scooped out of mud or soft
earth. The young are hatched in darkness,
and they don’t see the element in which
they’re going to become such masters
until they’re ready to fend for themselves.
Once I kept a strict watch over a nest,
and I’ll swear the youngsters made their
first exit while I was watching. But they
didn t walk out. They came out flying.
“Got him!”
like bullets, and seemed quite at home in
the air. But how did they learn?
* * * ♦
Ymar”; A snake which got into the
back-room of a small Victorian country
store sampled a couple of eggs whole ;
then, very injudiciously, thrust his head
through the handle of an oil-jar before
swallowing two more. This simple
demonstration in physi'cs cost Joe his
life.
* * * *
“Hanko”; The latest census gives Eng-
land a bird-population of 60 million.
Heading the list are chaffinches, robins,
thrushes and starlings, with a 10-million
tally of each species. Strangely, at least
to an Aussie cocky’s way of thought,
sparrows are well down the chart, being
grouped among rooks on the two-million
mark.
* * * *
“5.4 E.”: As an exciting sport the out-
bidding of rivals at an auction sale can
be overdone, as an auc-
tioneer at the Wodonga
(Vic.) saleyards once dis-
covered. Having bought a
mob of steers at a distant
sale, and paid agistment for
a fortnight, he entered
them in his own firm’s sale
at the yards. He had also
arranged for a once-affluent
but now-broke client to run
the bidding up as required.
On the morning of the sale,
however, the poverty-
stricken accomplice met
friends, and by the time he
reached the yards was well
back in the days of his
glory. No man was going
to get the better of him —
not on your life! Nobody
could, not even the auction-
eer, who spent a harrow-
ing half-hour knocking
down pens of his own beasts at fancy
prices to a man whom he knew hadn’t a
penny, while the rest of the buyers mar-
velled and speculated as to whom he
could be buying for. Just what the
auctioneer, faced with yard-charges and
a further fortnight’s agistment until the
next sale, said to the accomplice when
he got him alone I was never told —but
then, my father was never a man to swear
in front of his family.
« ,^ e . * Suggested that some parts
wheatbelt too dry for wheat
should be turned over to sandalwood-
growing. It isn’t, however, as easy as it
may seem, for sandalwood is a semi-
parasite which, though it can help to
support itself once it’s established, must
begin life as the guest of other plants
The roots are equipped with slug-like ends
which penetrate roots of other trees and
draw sustenance from them; any seed
which germinates more than an finch or
two away from another root hasn’t much
chance of survival. A sandalwood-tree,
once established, develops a tremendous
root-system in its search for host-plants,
and any tree on which it fastens is doomed
to a very poor existence and eventual
death.
♦ * * ♦
“Irving”; A collection of Somerset
Maugham’s stories includes a sketch,
“German Harry,” written from first-
hand contact with the central character,
Harry Engvoldt, who was known
throughout the Torres Straits as the
“Hermit of Deliverance Island,” and
who was in reality a Dane, In the sketch
Maugham predicted that some day a
casually-calling lugger-crew would find
Engvoldt’s body in his bunk in the lonely
hut. But German Harry wasn’t destined
for such an exit. His body, shockingly
mutilated, was found on the beach, and
his injuries showed that he had struggled
free after a battle with a shark, only to
collapse and probably die of thirst on a
blistering coral foreshore. A semi-
submerged stockade of stakes, in which
the hermit had habitually caged captured
turtles, was found. Probably he was
bringing up a turtle for butchering when
attacked by the shark.
* * * *
1954 Models
A FTER the cricket we drifted down to
the corner. Pete battled a way to the
bar through a platoon of wide-hatted
young men who made way for nobody.
When I made to take the empty glasses
Pete set them on a sill.
“Aw, give it away,” he said. “It ain’t
worth th’ effort.”
So we ambled to the store, where a
crowd of teeners were guzzling a variety
of colored drinks. The boys wore polo-
shirts in pink, pale-blue and lemon, pearl-
grey trousers and two-toned shoes. The
girls wore off-the-shoulder floral frocks,
sheer nylons and gold and silver slippers.
“What’s on at the Metro?” a youth
squeaked.
“A Disney picture,” a blonde shrilled.
“All right, too, if ya still wear nappies,”
she giggled.
Suddenly the youths disappeared. Came
an explosion of motor-bikes, and there
they were, visored like space-travellers.
The girls slid on to the pillions. Time
7.40 p.m., the city 25 miles distant, and
the pics on the flick at 8 p.m, sharp.
We sat there while the bats did their
aerobatics and the mopokes began to
call, two oldsters the world had left
behind.
HANKO.
ANTS
These brown ants fine as sand or seed
Invade our dish ... so soft, so light,
So merry, busy, harmless-seeming,
Yet organised as part of life
Involved as any human scheme—
Mmute, exact and reason-pure
Unto the ants descend, descend!
Let yourself down a millionth
Where all those little people go.
What consciousness behind them runs
With prick of action
(Every egg
The mother of a running leg!)?
Species and species—what long years
Have they to match our pride and tears?
They hurry, hurry, oh so fast
MmutiiE jn a global vast, within ten millions
of worlds
We dimly guess at—why, oh, why,
This energy, this constant ply?
And we—we ants
This you—this I?
A m .^ r . ve l —they—us—do they know
A millionth of what we know? Do they know
more?
How can we tell?
We live and die as chancily
As merrily, unhappily,
Knowing no more when all is said
Than each, than each —more static life,
As m a blind determined stone,
Might reach the meaning all alone.
I whisk and whisk and whisk them off
To mutilation, multi-death,
With irritation—nothing more.
What god is trampled on the floor?
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


T}OR some years a family of blue-wrens
* have made a home in my garden,
usually building their nests in a Duranta
hedge, but for the past two seasons one
pair have chosen the flower of a large
blue hydrangea,, building the tiny nest be-
tween the stems of the florets, which pro-
vide good shade and a perfect camou-
flage for the brilliantly-colored little
cock-bird while he is on the nest. Per-
haps it was his idea. —“Delta.”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: When time-payment was
introduced into the Torres Straits Islands
it became a real headache to those dis-
pensing it, for Binghi would indignantly
demand why the station was charging
£l5 for an article which, on the evidence
of the newspaper or magazine advertise-
ment he produced, was offered on a de-
posit of only £1 10s. by mainland firms.
My explanation that the 30-bob was but
the beginning of payments found little
acceptance, since, in the manana
psychology of the simple savage, posses-
sion of the article is 10 points of the
law and the necessity of future payments
a mere foible not worthy of considera-
tion by grown men. And that Binghi is
an optimist in these matters is illustrated
by the request from one Uelu for “slop-
chest” (tick) for a bag of flour against
the anticipated arrival of the baby-bonus
—“ ’E come soon.” I queried the
security as, to my knowledge, Uelu had
not entered double-harness. Came the
indignant rejoinder: “Aw, Bawss! Me
bin pinish get married last night!”
* ♦ ♦ *
“H.C.8.”: The little bloke was one of
those fellows who will wander into a
small country pub and within five minutes
be in the middle of an amused crowd. As
he mellowed, his stock of jokes seemed
to increase. He got to comic songs and
finished up with conjuring tricks, begin-
ning with a few elementary
palming efforts that led up
to what was obviously his
masterpiece. “Who’ll lend
me a quid-note?” he asked.
To everyone’s amazement
Hungry Herb obliged.
“Mark it, so’s you’ll know
if I ring another one in,”
instructed the magician.
He took the marked fiddly
and burst into a line of
corny patter: “Me and
me Chinese mate was
travellin’ through China,
His name was Hung Wun
—his father was hung
too,” etc. The long rig-
marole described how they
were advised to split up in
in order to escape the
bandits, so they divided
their money. (The quid
was tom in halves.) To
confuse the robbers
further, each man put half
of his money in his hat,
the other half in his boot.
(The halves were halved.)
Finally they reached
journey’s end ahd pooled
their finances again.
(Great show of placing the
four pieces in a dirty palm
and rubbing vigorously.)
“And,” concluded the
traveller triumphantly,
“there was our money
intact” —he broke off and
stared. “Well, ain’t that
disheartenin’?” he muttered in bitter
resignation as he handed the scraps back.
“That always happens!”
♦ * * *
“Bass”: All the bullock-teams I’ve seen
operating having been in country where
there was plenty of space, I can’t pro-
nounce on the teamster who needed a
chain and a half to turn in (B. 30/12/’53),
but I’ve worked where horse-teams were
required to turn in less than half that
width, and the teamster’s worth was
gauged by his ability to bring thern
around without getting them over the
traces. Most country roads are only a
chain from fence to fence. I knew one
oldster who, when there was no work
for the horses, would be in the nearest
pub. But he was always sure of his job
because the boss knew that however drunk
he was he could still turn a 12-horse team
in the width of the road without
uncoupling.
• * * •
“W.J.W.”: News that the wreck of an
old Spanish galleon has been sighted near
the Australian Antarctic base on Mac-
quarie Island has brought to light the fact
that there are dozens of wrecks lying
around that coast. That’s logical. Many
a ship rounding the Cape must have been
caught in the storms of the Roaring
’Forties and blown off course, some
abandoned after springing leaks, and
drifting long enough, in the grip or a
southbound current, to pile up on me
Antarctic mainland. Coming closer to
our own times, why was no trace of the
Koombana ever found? The best guess
I’ve heard—it came from a skipper who
assisted in the search—is that she was
caught in a submarine current, which
could have taken her down to the
Antarctic,
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Normally individualist
enough, the big honey-eater, commonly
called the gill-bird, frequently favors as
a nesting-site a spot formerly used by
another member of his species. Since
July I have noted four successive pairs
of gill-birds nest in the same redgum.
There was no overlapping (gill-birds will
no more tolerate other members of then
own species near their nest than they
will those of any other), but immediately
one pair moved out another pair moved
in. New nests were constructed in every
case. The first pair had a tremendous
task establishing their exclusive right
against other contenders, but each suc-
cessive pair found the going a bit easier.
There are plenty of trees for all, so
apparently each succeeding pair were
cashing-in on the police-work of the
earlier ones.
* * * *
“Sepicair”: To primitive natives the
wheel is a thing of great mystery. A
pushbike calls forth screams of astonish-
ment and hours of argument. I wouldn’t
care to be present at the exposure of
the working innards of a clock. Watched
a neighbor in the western New Guinea
highlands setting-up a large water-wheel
to generate power. About 13ft, in
diameter, it towered above the little grass-
“Have you seen anything of a jeep I left
here yesterday?”
lands people who gathered for weeks to
squat and conjecture. There were two
verdicts when the project was com-
pleted; It was certainly the granddaddy
of all wheels ; and because it turned and
went nowhere the master who had
labored to bring this about was stark
staring mad. Yet near the Wahgi River
recently a settler was levelling a slope for
the base of a building, and thought to
cheapen and boost the efficiency of native
earth-moving labor by importing a plane-
load of wheel-barrows. Mechanisation-
day saw the innovator hastening, in a
noiv-for-some-progress frame of mind, to
watch his speeded-up hirelings in action.
They were filling the barrows, hoisting
’em shoulder-high and, two men to each,
carrying them palanquin-fashion to-
wards the dump.
“Got anything to get rid o' freckles?"
“Salmon Gums”: I’d found the nest
towards the end of winter, when I’d been
wading through the shallower parts of
the swamp; but although it was nicely
placed in a small tea-tree, was lined,
looked cosy and was obviously occupied,
there were no eggs in it. Then I saw
the mother leaving the nest, and the
mystery was explained—a water-rat. She
glided down the tree-trunk and melted
into the water. I parted the soft lining of
the nest and revealed three young. There
must have been more, because next time
I counted five. They were out of the
nest, frolicking along the tea-tree
branches and taking to the water as
though it was their natural element.
Maybe it is, now, but their remote
ancestors were land animals. They came
down from the Philippines in five distinct
waves that can be traced, and it’s
probably only since coming to Australia
that they adapted themselves to a life in
water. That must have been quite a
while ago, because water-rats are as
much a part of the Australian riparian
scene as anything else.
* ♦ * ♦
“Banksia”: Homey McGurk had a
way with cattle, and while the agents
men, pushing the beasts around in the
yards for buyers’ inspection, armed
themselves with poles or waddies.
Homey would hop down from the rails
and poke in amongst them, a flick of the
hand and a quiet “Hoosh!” sufficing to
stop or divert a skittish steer. Then a
cow that had a calf with her put him
through the rails with tom pants. Next
day, leaving to look at a line on Gun-
bower Island, down the Murray, Homey
was observed to throw a hefty waddy
into the back of the car. “Not taking
any more risks with cattle, eh?” re-
marked the agent. “Cattle, me eye!”
retorted Homey. “Ain’t y’ heard of
them Gunbower mosquitoes?”
* ♦ • •
“PipTok”: Tommy Spencer’s “Mac-
Dougall,” who topped the score on that
famous occasion, had an emulator in a lad
in our cricket team. Going in last, with
the team needing six to win, he was
handed a broken bat and told to run out
every hit. He rejected the bat in favor of
a paling ripped from a near-by fence,
smacked into the first ball sent him, and
started to run. There were cries of “Lost
ball!” but he kept on running till victory
was assured, and then joined in the hunt
for the missing ball. It was found, spiked
on a nail in the paling-bat!
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Heresone”: Contrary to some Abo-
rologists’ findings, quite a few hollow-
nesting birds lay colored eggs. Those of
the English starling and Indian myna,
both now common here, are bright-blue.
Some small birds, such as the whitefacS
and the tree-swallow, lay white or very
pale-pink eggs with fine spots of darker
pink or red, often in a ring round the
large end. Wood-swallows often use a
hollow spout, though they build almost
at the entrance; their eggs are usually
either pink or greenish-grey, with darker
spots. The nankeen kestrel’s are a pale
brick-red, liberally marked with a much
deeper tint.
* « ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”; I’ve forgotten what the
rail-fare was from Narromine round the
loop L-line through Peak Hill to Forbes, but
whatever it was there were Mat, Dutch
and self and all we had was enough money
for two, and there were three pens wait-
ing at the old Weelong shed. There was
no question of Mat and I splitting, and
we were almost resigned to breaking up
the trio when Mat spotted a sale of
women’s hats in the Western Stores. So,
with a 2s. 6d. “straw sailor,” two tickets
and some confidence, we got on the
rattler. ’Twas a dogbox carriage, and
when they came to check tickets at
Alectown West Mat and I locked ourselves
in the lavatory, Dutch showed two tickets,
muttered something about “the missus”
and indicated the “straw sailor” on the
seat beside him. That got us to Parkes,
where we changed into a corridor car for
Forbes and the rest was easy—corridors
being pie for scalers.
* * ♦ ♦
Four Select Wives
IF “Benbow” wasn’t bending the long-
bow about seeing a Macassar Malay
out walking with one of his three wives
“hanging on to his arm” (B. 14/10/’53),
it would seem that the general deteriora-
tion in behavior has even affected the
conservative and correct Malays. A few
years ago Ahmat bin Daud would not
have permitted a wife to touch him in
public, but would have stalked along
behind his wives, in a position to ensure
that none of them rolled an amorous eye
at any attractive male.
However, it is perfectly true that the
permitted four wives usually live in
harmony. Custom regulates their be-
havior. Some years ago I became very
friendly with a young Malay Datoh of
noble family who tried to induce me to
“Masok Islam.” When I flatly refused to
undergo even a minor surgical operation,
Datoh quickly assured me that it would
not be necessary in my case, as he could
wangle a special dispensation for me.
“Even so,” said I, “what do I gain?”
Datoh became very persuasive. He
said: “You’ll get four wives and can live
without working. You must have social
standing, therefore your first wife must
be of good family. Take my sister; I
know she is neither young nor pretty, but
she is a lady who will be satisfied if she
is head-wife, in charge of the others, and
she will not bother you. For your second
wife I’ll get you a pretty little sixteen-
year-old from a kampong who will keep
you amused. For the third and fourth
I’ll get you two big strong peasant-girls
who will do all the work in the house and
the fields. Then you and I will have
nothing to do but hunt, fish and talk.’
It sounded all right, but, fortunately
perhaps, mining affairs just then took
me to Siam and I never saw Datoh again,
Biluim Poilu (Burma).
GARDEN OF DARKNESS
Under the moon the garden sits and leers
A velvet mass of shadows; and the bm
Of foreign-looking trees are fraught with fears,
And down in the corner the pottmg-shed
This is an alien country after dark f
Whose shadow-people speak the to gu
Thisfwhich in daytime seems an ordered park,
Becomes a place of awfulness at night.
The palm-tree’s long, dry finger-leaves are
stretched
To strangle, and the frangipani throws
A thousand arms to hold and bind. And etched
Against the sky a monstrous gum-tree grows.
No casual-moving garden-boy is found,
There is no noise of busy garden shears .. .
This is a patch of dark, unhallowed ground,
And under the moon the garden sits and leers.
ẁ
KIT DENTON.


Ordering Sveefc or Ry ?
iQlbm
jjtfRAUA/y
V-
FOL
nouai c/ied&ivt
Sf
SHIRRY
! wiNEb PIVITP
Industrial Enterprise
i
61 ‘
sS
h
£2
C
Zi
V ffl
The public lighting of Sydney
by gas was one of the specta-
cular events of 1841. The use of
gas for lighting was first dis-
cussed in 1826. but its general
use was not attempted until 10
years later when'ihe matter was
revived by Revd. Ralph Mans-
field. a moving spirit in the
formation of the first Gaslight
Company in Australia.
The
w.
present offers opportunities
no less than the past
€ are proud of the part we
have played since the early days
in aiding the development of our
Nation's industries.
,/ Owned and staffed by Australians,
we offer a complete and modem
banking service to meet the present
day needs of progressive under-
takings, both large and small.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Business. Rollery. Etc.
“Sucker Money’ *
The present oil-share boom
has, as well as some genuine
foundation in W.A. and Papuan
results, a basis in “sucker-
money”—that is, the money
which a gullible section of the
public is prepared to put up in
order to share in what it be-
lieves to be the prospect of fabu-
lous riches to be won from oil.
Even a person who thinks
that Ampol Exploration shares
are overvalued, on known fac-
tors, at £5 a share, but who is
prepared to pay that figure now
for the scrip because of what he
thinks the public reaction will
be if another layer of oil-sands
is tapped, is fundamentally rely-
ing on “sucker-money” to
justify his outlay. Such oil-scrip
buyers are to be found all
around—they profess to believe
that the W.A. oil-strike is
already fully valued on the mar-
ket, and the New Guinea
proposition probably so, but are
ready to speculate on the likely
public reaction in the event of
spectacular but inconclusive re-
ports. In other words, they are
betting on being able to find a
bigger sucker than themselves at
the appropriate moment.
Usually they have a set figure
at which they intend to sell.
They don’t propose to see the
venture through to the oil-
marketing stage (if any).
It is quite conceivable that
Ampol Exploration and Oil
Search shares will some day
really be worth present market
prices. Perhaps more. But how
far that day is off is beyond the
bounds of reasonable estima-
tion. On the other hand, there
are, among the listed “oil”
stocks, some concerns whose
chances of striking oil are com-
pletely unknown, yet the shares
in them may be at a 400 p.c.
premium.
The present oil-share boom,
like so many other booms, will
last so long as the “sucker-
money” lasts and some oil co.
continues to get favorable (or,
anyway, spectacular) signs of an
oil-bearing area. Once the
potentialities of an oilfield are
known with reasonable accuracy
there is generally an end to
speculation; after that invest-
ment takes over, and Stock Ex-
change excitement dwindles.
Many Stock Exchange punters
are waiting for an announce-
ment from Australasian
Petroleum (in which Oil Search
has a 10 p.c. interest) some time
in February. The bit has stuck
in the Omati well at 13,740 ft.
aft&r high gas-pressure caused
me hole to cave in, and opera-
tions have been suspended until
high - pressure surface - control
equipment is obtained. If a
favorable report comes from
Omati after operations are re-
sumed next month it can be
anticipated that there will be a
further upsurge in the oil-share
market generally, if that doesn’t
actually precede resumption of
drilling.
But the carefree abandon with
which the sharemarket has been
buying any old “oil” shares at
high prices will not last for ever.
There is a limit to the “sucker-
money” available for completely
fanciful speculation. True
enough, oil is where you find it.
But in order to find it a com-
pany has to be equipped to look
for it, or at least to be able to
show geophysical surveys suffi-
ciently attractive to bring the
big oil-boys into it to do the
actual drilling.
GATT and Interims
The story that Australia was
not going to agree to extension
of the GATT tariff concessions
having been exploded—the exten-
sion is until June 30, 1955—there
"For an officer he certainly lacks dignity."
has been some settling-down
in industrial-share prices on Aus-
tralian ’Changes. When it was
previously announced in the
Press that Australia was aban-
doning GATT some investors
regarded it as a sign that the
Commonwealth was going to
grant more protection to some
secondary industries, and share-
prices responded. Allowing for
any reaction since, quotations last
week were still mainly firm.
Tooth has been outstanding
among major industrials, with a
rise of 10s. a share during the
past few weeks. Other N.S.W.
equities to move up strongly have
been Swans and Frederic Ash.
Wormald Industries has been in
demand, and, on a purely liquida-
tion basis, so has North Coast
Steam. Western Stores has risen
quickly under keener attention
from buyers, reaching 595. 6d.
This old-established concern has
a good deal of inner strength in
its asset-values, apart from its
strong trading position in N.S.W.
country areas.
Among increased interim-div.
distributions already announced
have been Tooth, Minster,
Carlton and United Breweries,
Carpenter’s Investment and A. J.
Benjamin. Going on quotations,
the market expects other
increases before the trading year
is over.
Petroleum & Chemical Corp.
The 55.-paid shades in Petro-
leum and Chemical Corporation
(Aust.), Ltd., are being exterl-
sively dealt in in Sydney and
Melbourne at 9s. 3d. The issue
was placed by lan Potter and
Co. just before Christmas, and
not many strangers got a look-
in.
The cash issue was 1,300,000
£1 ords. Of these, 200,000 were
taken by Bitumen and Oil
Refineries (Aust.), Ltd., 300,000
were offered to Bdral share-
holders, and the remainder were
taken firm by the underwriters.
Arthur Vickery got 25,000
promoter’s shares, and 3600
shares were taken by the
original subscribers.
The money is required to
provide funds for building a
high-temperature cracking-plant
for treating petroleum on a free-
hold of 56 acres at Silverwater,
Sydney, with a frontage to the
Parramatta River. Initial pro-
duction of the plant will be crude
benzene, toluene and xylene;
fuel-oils containing aromatic
petroleum tars ; and residual gas.
It is expected that the plant, de-
signed and partly fabricated in
the United States, will be in
operation by the beginning of
1956.
A long-term agreement (20
years) has been made with
Bitumen and Oil Refineries for
the supply of the necessary oil.
The same concern has contracted
to instal a plant capable of “sub-
stantially desulphurising and
hydrogenating” crude benzene,
toluene and xylene. Boral will
also buy, if necessary, fuel oil
from the new co. for its furnaces
at Matraville, and will assist on
the selling side.
A long-term contract has been
entered into with the Australian
Gas Light Co. for the sale of
residual gas.
Gases from crude petroleum
are rich in ethylene and
propylene, and these two pro-
ducts, more especially in com-
bination with benzene, form the
main raw materials for the
petro-chemical industry. The
major field for the use of petro-
chemicals lies in the manufacture
of plastics, paints, varnishes,
lacquers, solvents, drugs and
synthetic alcohols and synthetic
rubber. The toluene produced
is of defence importance.
Growth of the petro-chemical
industry in the United States
and Great Britain encouraged
the flotation of Petroleum
and Chemical Corp. No estimate
of profits was made in the
prospectus, but formation of the
co. seems to have been a natural
consequence of similar develop-
ments overseas, where expansion
is described as “phenomenal.”
Estimated cost of the land
(£141,359) and plant (£1,587,891)
is £1,729,250, of which £487,500
is to be met out of the net pro-
ceeds of £500,000 of debentures.
Chairman of the co. is William
lan Potter; other directors are
A. V. Smith, E. R. Griffin,-Sir
John Butters, F. A. Finn, Sir
Leslie McConnan and T- G.
Murray.
Masonite
A first-class stock giving the
excellent yield of 5.6 p.c. is
Masonite. The ords, are at
455., after having been up to
51s. in 1953. The div. (12| p.c.)
was paid out of earnings equal
to 14.2 p.c. in respect of last
term, but the co. is conservative
in estimating its profits, and
more plant is now in operation.
There is still a high demand
awaiting the co.’s output;
masonite is in short supply in
some States. The building in-
dustry is now very active, and
the co.’s turnover should go on
expanding. During the slump
in building in 1952 turnover
was scarcely affected.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION.
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION. General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies In all Country Centres
AN IMPORTANT THING
ABOUT A GOOD WHISKY
IS • • •
FLAVOUR
—and in McCallum’s one
finds the palate-pleasing
flavour of a good Scotch
whisky unhurriedly and
competently brought to
perfection over the years.
r
(D c CalUims
the whisky is
Wholly distilled
and blended in Scotland
MCI4/6.2
m
'Sfi 1
i
lIF
■
tration
.
on refining
AS MORE AND MORE PEOPLE wish to
fly, and increasing numbers of air-
craft are brought into operation to
carry them, air transportation’s thirst
for oil grows.
To those who fly aircraft or who,
as passengers, are carried comfortably
and swiftly about the world, the
familiar sight of the green and yellow
fuellers of BP Aviation Service is the
outward sign of-the very extensive
organisation working behind the
scenes to provide for these increasing
demands. But long before these
fuellers can perform their proper
function, adequate refinery capacity
must have been planned and built.
Anglo-Iranian is making stren-
uous efforts to increase its refinery
capacity, particularly to meet the
fuel demands of the new Jet Age.
Already new refineries are in produc-
tion, and expansion goes on apace in
Great Britain, Australia, Africa and
in Europe. This concentration on
refinery expansion will enable BP
Aviation Service to play its part in
meeting the air world’s future jet
fuel requirements.
AVIATION
w
SERVICE
- -
Operated tn Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
»/■ 3
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Inflationary Trend
A round of cost- and price-
rises as damaging to public opin-
ion as that started by subsidy-
cuts in May, 1950, has been the
sequel to N.Z.’s 10 p.c. wage-
lift, and the Holland Govern-
ment is entering its critical elec-
tion-year with its stocks slump-
ing. As there’s a close parallel
between circumstances then and
now, the Government seems to
have forgotten any lessons it
learnt during its first year in
office. This is another case of
chickens coming home to roost,
but in this instance it can’t be
claimed that they’re Socialist
chickens, as in 1950. The truth
can’t be hidden that Mr. Hol-
land has been travelling much
the same road as the Socialists
under a “free-enterprise” banner.
From the start, Mr. Holland’s
pose in public was one to in-
spire confidence, and this gave
him time to tackle problems,
with the people behind him.
Now his words and actions give
the impression that he has not
made the most of the time.
New Zealand still has a fairly
healthy foundation for its high
standard of living in its flourish-
ing food-exporting and wool
industries, but most business-
heads and leaders in dairying,
meat and wool are realistically-
minded enough to see that a
change is coming in the world.
Mistakes cannot be laughed-off
as easily as in the past.
When subsidies on butter,
tea, flour, bread, eggs, milk,
railway fares, wool and phone-
charges were scaled down in
May, 1950, the week after wages
were raised 5 p.c., the aim was
to relieve the national Budget
by transferring part of the load
to domestic budgets. This is
partly what the Government has
been doing again in the past
few months, with rises like
these:
Bread, up a penny to 7id. per Sib.
loaf, and bread subsidy down a
penny to 4d. (total subsidy £4.5
million against £4.8 million);
Butter, up 4d. to 2s. per lb.; sub-
sidy down 3d. to l/ojd. (total sub-
sidy £5 million);
Milk, up a penny to 9d. a quart;
subsidy down £d. (total subsidy
nearly £3 million).
The saving in subsidies is less
than the rise in price of these
items in the cost of living be-
cause higher costs as a result of
the wage-lift have had to be
met. But for the changes, the
subsidy-bill would have been up
by £1.5 million to more than
£l4 million for bread, milk and
butter alone. Yet N.Z. can’t
complain that these lines are
dear at the new prices. Pro-
ducers or taxpayers are still
carrying much of the load.
If cost-price rises extended no
wider they might be borne with-
out great protest, but the
levelling-up has included trans-
port, most goods turned-out by
N.Z. industries and services.
The spiralling movement in-
side N.Z.’s tightly - controlled
economy is all the harder to
check because of pensions and
social-security benefits, which
have just risen by 10s. a week,
equal to £5.35 million yearly in
the aggregate.
Maorilanders should have
learnt by now that the cure is not
to be found in controls, of which
they already have more than
their share, nor is it to be sought
in wage- and price-adjustments
to new higher levels in the hope
that equilibrium will be attained
there. New Zealand has had
more than enough experience of
the futility of anti-inflationary
controls which operate at the
wrong end, and should know
that die final stage of repressed
inflation is liable to be much the
same as that of inflation left to
run its course. The only sure
way to end inflation is by taking
a stand to prevent the quantity
of money from rising further,
and, in addition, in N.Z.’s case,
by relaxing controls to put local
industry more on its mettle.
Most of Maoriland’s troubles
can be traced to excessive faith
in controls to bolster-up
economic stability and prosper-
ity. A leading economist. Pro-
fessor H. Belshaw, exploded this
idea some months ago, when he
said: “Economic stability
doesn’t exist. When people ask
for it, they want the ups but
they don’t want the downs. To
have growth there must be
downs for somebody. No in-
stability means no growth. Fac-
tors making for instability
include external influences, in-
ternal economic changes, popu-
lation-growth, new inventions,
changes in credit-creation, sav-
ings, demands, prices and
incomes.”
Auckland’s Bridge
With finance the trump-card,
the planners of Auckland’s
harbor-bridge had to choose
between coming to terms or
waiting indefinitely for realisa-
tion of their dream, a dream
they hope will become a reality
within a few years. So 26ft.
has been cut off the width, and
the cost reduced to bedrock by
shelving a lot of work on the
approaches “until the situation
requires.”
Time will show whether these
are real savings or sacrifices. In
skeletonised form, the scheme
will run into £5 million, which
is £4 million less than Auckland
planned earlier to spend on a
67ft.-wide affair, and a complete
approach system on both sides
of the harbor. When the wizards
of finance were asked to put the
seal of approval on the original
proposals and to sanction a
£4.5 million London loan early
last year, they turned the scheme
down flat on the score that
N.Z. couldn’t afford it yet. The
loan was the snag, and as N.Z.
has arranged to do without it,
the job can now go ahead.
On the bridge itself the cut
in price by dropping one of the
five proposed traffic-ways and
the two pedestrian-ways isn’t
big, only £610,000, to £3,630,000,
which still has to be confirmed
by the original tenderers (the
Cleveland Bridge and Engineer-
ing Co., and Dorman, Long and
Co.), who can have the job on
the new terms. The dimensions
now are: width, 41ft.; length,
3520 ft.; navigational span,
800 ft., rising to a clearance of
142 ft. above high-spring tide
level, with 180 ft. to the top of
the arch.
In general appearance, carried
on six well-spaced ferro-concrete
piers, sunk to depths of up to
100 ft. in the harbor, the bridge
is unchanged. It won’t rank as
an engineering wonder of the
world, but should be a present-
able solution to the problem of
spanning the Waitemata within
tight financial limits, and should
have a good, well-proportioned
look about it when the job is
done.
Foreign Trade
Foreign contenders for a
larger share of the Maoriland
market have been making the
most of arguments for two-way
trade, and their pressure is likely
to be felt more as the world
switches its thoughts from war
to peace. Japan and Germany
are the keenest among these
bidders for business. Their ap-
proach is something like this:
“We will be good customers of
New Zealand if New Zealand
will help us to increase our buy-
ing-capacity. Expansion in trade
between our countries should be
of benefit to both, and New
Zealand will find that we can
give good value in return for the
products it is able to supply.”
There’s no question about the
competitive power of these two
challengers, or, for that matter,
of others keen to get .orders,
Japan and Germany are out to
give prompt deliveries, as well
as to undersell present company.
They take primary products
like wool, hides and skins, and,
in Japan’s case, scrap-iron.
Germany is a possible buyer
of N.Z. butter and cheese if it
can afford the price. Both have
plenty of items on their sales-
lists, and seem to be rivals in
offering leading lines like heavy
industrial and chemical output.
France is another in the race,
equally eager to make things
less lopsided. Russia is in the
running, too, with a fairly wide
variety of stuff in its sales-
basket. Binoculars, cameras,
cigarettes and tobacco, cotton
piece-goods, fur-skins, matches,
newsprint, scientific instruments,
statuary and works-of-art, tea,
vodka and wines have been
placed on N.Z.’s approved list
for import-licences to buy from
behind the Iron Curtain, and
other lines not locally made will
be given a good hearing. As
the Russian rouble is soft cur-
rency for N.Z., importing is
fairly straightforward.


Procrastination over your Will may be serious for your dependents
PROCRASTINATION in Estate Planning and Will-making—
and in bringing a Will up-to-date—has robbed many a family of
its just share of an Estate. **
If you desire to make your Will—or bring it up-to-date—you
are invited to call and discuss the matter beforehand with Perpetual '
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s wide experience wiU probably enable it to
offer practical < suggestions so that the maximum of your Estate
will become available to your beneficiaries.
If, when making your Will, you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many
prudent men.
Ring B 0377 to-day—or write —and make an appointment —
without obligation. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s
helpful booklet on this subject be sent to you.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B, B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. O. ABMYTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73.000,000 w. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
itftf
a 9 ;
m.
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G. Mutual Life
are the initials by which the
77-year-old Australasian Temperance
and General Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd., is known throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, where it writes
ordinary, industrial and accident busi-
ness. It is one of the big-five mutual life
offices operating in Australasia; it con-
tinues to show satisfactory margins in
all those matters upon which Soundness
and progress depend ; and the improve-
ment in the national economy of both
countries provides an encouraging back-
ground for future bonus prospects for
policyholders—there are no share-
holders.
In these days of high cost-of-living,
high taxation and rising welfare
standards, it has become increasingly
difficult for the individual to provide ade-
quately—other than through life assur-
ance—for his own security on retirement,
or for the security of his family upon
his death, especially if it should be
premature. For these and other reasons,
a considerable part of the society’s new
business of recent years has been con-
cerned with group assurance in connec-
tion with industrial superannuation
schemes. In the ordinary department
new business has increased at the rate of
about 15 p.c. p.a. over the last five years.
Among other things, this emphasises the
responsibility of finding suitable invest-
ment outlets for several millions of
pounds of new money each year. The
underlying aims of the board’s investment
policy are to provide complete security
for all contractual benefits at their appro-
priate due-dates, as well as for an ade-
quate interest yield to ensure payment of
satisfactory bonuses to policyholders.
Last term £39,922,798 (up £3,031,457)
of new business was put on the books in
the two life departments combined —
£31,108,471 (up £2,556,938) ordinary and
£8,814,327 (up £474,519) industrial. The
total income, exes., claims and assurance
funds in each department have moved
along in this way;
Ordinary Life Department,
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’5O 7,438,692 1,037,227 2,208,436 4,193,029 43,545,039
To staff fund, £2450 48,542,589
Written off premises, £18,378 .. .. 43,524,211
’5l 8,345,295 1,284,629 2,472,364 4,588,302 48,112,513
To staff fund, £7560 48,104,953
Written off premises, £18j443 .. ..48,086,510
’52 9,396,613 1,532,609 2,846,042 5,017,962 53,104,472
To staff fund, £9600 .. ..53,094,872
’s3
10,450,853 1,647,431 3,117,363 5,686,059 58,780,931
To staff fund, £9900 58,771,031
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’5O 4,664,271 1,263,651 2,260,648 1,139,972 25,183,733
To staff fund, £2450 25,181,283
Written off premises, £11,264 .. 25,170,019
’5l 4,818*292 1,412,044 2,425,171 981,077 26,151,096
To staff fund, £4320 26,146,776
Written off premises, £10,831 .. 26,135,945
’52 4,994,313 1,601,622 2,689,619 703,072 26,889,'017
To staff fund, £5250 .. ..26,838,767
’53 5,108,037 1,628,627 2,894,632 584,778 27,418.545
To staff fund, £4950 .. .. 27,413,595
In each section claims were well within
actuarial expectation, which means there
was a profit on the mortality experience,
and there was a slight reduction in
expense-rates and a small increase in
the net rate of interest earned, thanks to
a lighter tax bill. All trends were thus
in the right direction.
The ratio of total exes, (including taxes
and contributions to staff fund) to total
income was 15.76 p.c. in the ordinary
and 31.88 p.c. in the industrial depart-
ment, as against 16.31 p.c. and 32.07 p.c.
respectively for the previous year. The
net rate of interest earned on the mean
assurance funds in the two departments
combined was £3 15s. 9d. p.c. (up Is, Bd.
p.c.), thus providing a satisfactory margin
over the stringent rates at which the
actuary calculates liabilities under
policies, namely 2\ p.c. in the O.D, and a
mixed 2 p.c. and 2\ p.c. in the I.D.
The amounts available for distribu-
tion (excess of assurance funds over lia-
bilities under policies) increased by
£236,918 in the 0.D., but decreased by
£83,271 in the 1.D,:
Net surplus— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Ordinary .. .. £977,022 £1,037,492 £1,274,410
Industrial . . .. 455,292 402,550 819,279
Total .. .. £1,432,314 £1,440,042 £1,593,689
Of the £1,593,689 surplus, £1,462,053
was distributed in reversionary bonuses
at slightly higher rates in the 0.D., but
on a slightly lower scale in the I.D.
The funds that became available for
investment'during the year went mainly
into public securities (£2,080,467), loans
(up £2,455-, 133) and co. debentures (up
£755,815):
Public 1952. p.c. 1953. p.c.
. securities .. £61,477,183 73.2 £63,557,650 71.0
Loans . . . . 16,186,401 19.2 18,591,534 20.8
Co. debentures. 1,736,061 2.1 2,490,876 2.8
Freeholds .. 8,792,045 4.5 8,985,300 4.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 810,633 1.0 853,309 1.0
Freeholds (up £193,255) are worth a lot
more than their book-value, and no credit
is taken in the accounts for overdue
interest, agents’ balances or other non-
interest-bearing items. Loans are largely
mortgages in connection with home pur-
chases by policyholders, and are therefore
very helpful so far as new business is
concerned. Altogether the structure of
the portfolio augurs well for further
small improvement in net interest earn-
ings, which is the chief source of bonuses
to policyholders.
Herald & Weekly Times (Melb.)
T ARGEST publishing-house in Aus-
tralia, and a very prosperous one,
too, the well-handled H. and W.T. con-
tinues to pursue a progressive and
forward-looking policy, which promises
well for the future of the undertaking
in a field where competition has gathered
strength of recent years, and threatens
to become keener still.
To help meet the cost of more modern
high-speed presses and new color- and
gravure-machinery, as well as additions
to and reconstruction of part of the
main premises in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, those on the ord. register at
Jan. 15 were offered 2,000,000 new ss.
ords., one for three, at a premium of
ss, each. The money is wanted ss,
application Feb. 26, and the balance on
Aug. 31, 1954. When fully paid the
issue will lift capital to £2,340,000 in
125,000 6£ p.c. and 275,000 6 p.c. prefs.,
all of £1 each, and 7,760,000 ss, ords.
The pref. divs. and 16.6 p.c. to the ords.
will then call for £347,824, or £45,882
less profit than was claimed last term.
Reserves will also benefit by £500,000
of share premiums, which will make a
16.6 p.c. div. worth only 8.3 p.c. on the
new shares.
Last sale of the ords. cum rights was
at 205., making the net cost, after exercis-
ing the rights and allowing for broker-
age, 17s. Bd., at which figure the return
is 4.7 p.c. on a 16.6 p.c. div. basis, with
what look like satisfactory long-term
prospects. The rights, which thus have
a theoretical value of 7s. 5d., recently
have changed hands at 7s. Buyers were
offering 18s. for the ords., ex rights, with-
out attracting sellers. The 6y p.c. prefs.
at 245. yield 5.4 p.c.; there has been np
recorded sales of the 6 p.c. for some
time. Including the new issue, net tan-
gible cover is £344 first prefs., £152
seconds and 10s. Id. ords.
Declared net earnings shot up by
£151,879 last term, reaching a record
£393,706, and appearances are that the
board could have shown a still better
figure if it had wanted to :
, Dividends ,
—Pref. , Re-
Sept., Profit. 6i p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£/£)£> £f &
1949. .229,346 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204.000 1,417,447
Reduction reserves, £105,334 .. 1,812,113
1950. .235,249 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,318,737
Taxes paid, £5399 1,313,338
1951. .231,662 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,316,375
From tax reserve, £1472 .. .. 1,317,847
1952. .241,827 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,331,049
Tax overprovided, £3766 ~ .. 1,334,815
1953. .393,706 8125 16,500 16.66=240,000 1,468,896
The £393,706 was sufficient to pay the
pref. div, (£24,625) and show 25.6 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 15.1, 14.3, 14.6,
14.2 and 16 p.c, back to 1948. It was
written after allowing £352,000 (up
£147,000) for taxation, £242,218 (up
£152,604) for depreciation, and unspeci-
fied amounts to cover the capital cost of
some old buildings, which are to be
demolished, and the “abnormal cost
element” in erection of the new Haw-
thorn printery. The lift in the div. from
14.1 p.c. to 16.6 p.c. was therefore a
comfortable matter —the -rate had been
steady at approximately 14 p.c. since
1938.
Chief factors behind the sharp spring
in earnings were a better supply of news-
print at lower cost —average about £9O
a ton as against £l2B-odd for the previ-
ous year—and bigger newspapers, with
a consequent increase in display and
other advertising space and the revenue
therefrom.
Backbone of the undertaking is the
co.’s two Melbourne dailies, “Sun”
morning and “Herald” evening. The
former has a circulation of over 412,000
and the latter approximately 430,000;
figures claimed to be unsurpassed in their
respective fields throughout the Com-
monwealth, and therefore very helpful
in the sale of advertising space. Three
weeklies and a like number of monthlies
contribute to the pool, too, and so do
the co.’s two Victorian broadcasting
stations, 3DB-LK. Sales of “Woman’s
Day” increased, but no hint is given as
to what extent, if any, this journal
helped to swell net earnings. The book-
publishing section continues to grow,
and the new rotogravure printery at
Hawthorn has come into operation, but
Will not be ready for full-scale produc-
tion till about Sept. next. The co.’s
effort to obtain a controlling interest in
the Sydney “Sun” was unsuccessful, the
winner of the race being John Fairfax
and Sons Pty., which for a long time had
been awaiting such an opportunity.
Developments and trends already re-
ferred to are further reflected in the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1951. 1952, 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,840,000 £1,840,000 £1,840,000
Reserves . . ~ 1,316,375 1,331,049 1,463.896
Shareholders’ funds £3,156.375 £8,171,049 £8,303,896
Stock . . .. 586,445 1,276,671 1,17D,058
Debtors, etc. .. 837,491 944,938 1,230,667
Cash, etc... .. 2,090 2,226 2,356
Liquids .. .. £1,426,026 £2,223,835 £2,403,081
Liabilities* .. 1,185,258 2,176,092 2,224,212
Surplus .. .. £240,768 £47,748 £178,869
Freehold, etc. .. 826,053 884,100 911,484
Machinery and
Plant .. .. 994,800 1,149.772 1,867,590
Shares other cos.,
etc 1,094,754 1,089,434 845,953
Net assets . . £3,156,375 £3,171,049 £3,303,896
* Includes provision for taxation.
A drop of £106,613 in stocks was accom-
panied by a growth of £285,729 in
debtors’ balances, and £217,818 net was
added to the book-value of plant, etc.
The contraction of £243,481 in shares in
other cos., etc., about which the board
is tightlipped, apparently related to ad-
vances rather than actual shareholdings.
The new share-issue should strengthen
the ratio of liquids to outside liabilities-^-
the latter includes £750,000 of 4| p.c.
unsecured registered notes, which are
earning a lot more than their keep.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
npHE Taubman group consists *bf the
parent co. and 14 subsidiaries, of
which eight are ip N. S. Wales, two in S.
Australia, and one each in Victoria,
Queensland, Westralia and New Zealand.
And the link with Pinchin, Johnson and
Associates, the English paint people,
which holds a fat parcel of the parent co.’s
ord. scrip, has meant much, technically
and financially. The group is one of the
biggest manufacturers of paint and sur-
face coating in Australasia, and has
always given a good account of itself.
Post-war expansion has been rapid, the
ords. have had divs. averaging 16.4 p.c.
over the last seven years, and the long-
run outlook for shareholders is encourag-
ing.
Features of the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts (to Sept. 30 last)
include the co.’s withdrawal from the
industrial-chemicals field, continued and
profitable growth of the group’s main
operations, adroit handling of a swollen
inventory and marked improvement in
the financial position. Sales (amount not
stated) were a record in volume and value,
thanks largely to-recovery in building and
other activities, especially during the last
half of the term, and to output of the
new £250,000 factory at Yeronga, near
Brisbane, which came into production
toward the close of accounts in 1952.
After allowing unstated amounts for
taxation and depreciation, etc., the
cautious board figured net earnings
£78,219 stronger at £356,445:
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
I f Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. serves, serves.f
£ £ pC £
’49.. 171,617 5000 171=100.554 66,063 a 762,594
Share-premiums, £130,029 .. .. *892,623
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £987.. 893,610
Unexplained reduction res., £9799.. 883,811
’5O. .245,424 5000 20 = 134,071 106,853 990,164
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £2369 .. 992,533
’51..299,184 5000 15 = 142,967 151,217 1,143,750
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,128,750
Share premiums, £6044 .. .. 1,184,794
Unexplained reductions, £7OOO net .. 1,127,794
’52 . .278,226 5000 15 = 173,372 99,854 1,227,648
Share premiums, £52,243 .. .. 1,279,891
Profit sale assets, £80,090 .. .. 1,359,981
Less intangibles, etc., £44,781 .. 1,315,260
’53..356,445 5000 15 = 175,309 176,136 1,491.386
* After eliminating outside interests, t After deduct-
ing intangibles, £68,400 at 30/9/’53.
The £356,445 covered the pref. diy, and
30 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
23.6, 30.8, 35.8, 29 and 36.7 p.c. back to
1948. The fatness of these ratios owes
something to the size of the reserves, of
course. On capital and reserves combined,
the year’s profit was 12.9 p.c,, which is
nevertheless a pleasing comment on
efficiency of the plant and technical and
managerial staffs. So maintenance of the
15 p.c. div. was a comfortable affair,
leaving £176,136 for reserves, which also
benefited by £52,243 of share premiums
and £80,090 profit on sale of assets.
The share-premiums relate to an
exchange of scrip in connection with the
London co.’s holding in the N.Z. off-
shoot, which took over the business of
Best Paints, Ltd., Auckland, early in the
term. The profit on sale of assets resulted
from purchase of Taubmans Chemicals
Pty. by 1.C.1.A.N.Z. at an unstated figure
—believed to have been in the neighbor-
hood of £430,000, Growth of powerful
competition and need for more capital
were the main reasons behind the sale of
the industrial-chemicals business, which
turned out about 50 p.c. of Australia’s
requirements of D.D.T. as well as other
insecticides, etc.
The proceeds helped to finance
expansion of other sections of the
group. The big new works now being
erected at Sunshine, near Melbourne, will
be one of the most modern paint factories
in the world, the chairman says. A factory
which turns out synthetic media at Villa-
wood, near Sydney, is being considerably


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents ana
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
CjfMar
ẁ
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY. f LIMITED,
78 Parramatta |toad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
FOR ALL
THOSE OCCASIONS
ICNSON & H C 00(1 t»#
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
vmc catc «jnc oeoitce 1
Cigarettes by
Benson(mJ. Hebges
OLD BOND STREET\ LONDON W,
3?
cA>
C -
r*'
IH U
AMP
RECORD
New Business
inl9s3more than
£118,000,000
In 1953 the A.M.P. created an all-time
record by issuing over 170,000 policies for
more than £118,000,000.
The A.M.P. is the Largest Mutual Life
Insurance office in the British Common-
wealth of Nations. Its present success is
based on a tradition of more than a
century of service.
It offers you todqy the best in Life
Insurance*
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
PRINCIPAL BOARD: CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman.
WILLIAM A. MACKAY, Deputy-Chairman. DR. S. A. SMITH, SEPTIMUS G. ROWE,
HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L,C., SAMUEL HORDERN, G, GORDON RUSSELL.
M. C. BUTTFIELD, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
expanded, and the new installa-
tion at Perth is now complete and
giving a good account of itself.
The year’s improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,813,239) was £316,185, and,
when the books closed, current
assets exceeded current liabili-
ties over 3y times as against
nearly twice a year earlier:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital 1,239,515 1,255,810 1,268,728
Reserves .. 1,128,751 1,227,649 1,491,386
Outside
interests . 153,811 158,198 211,202
Mortgages . 160,000 511,518
Overdraft . 115,023 499,291
Creditors* . 958,597 1,060,000 674,842
Exchange
a/c .. 60,020 64,540 104,469
Staff fund 15,000 15,000 28,000
Final divs. 73,638 104,023 93,498
3.744.355 4,524,511 4,383,133
Freeholds . 496,783 620,748 706,489
Plant .. 425,538 507,146 451,588
Stocks .. 1,883,173 2,496,613 1,521,122
Debtors, etc. 896,349 856,942 1,096,167
Cash, etc. 42,512 43,062 376,026
Inter-co.
balances. 231,741
3.744.355 4,524,511 4,383,133
* Includes provision for taxation.
The overdraft (£499,291 at the
previous balance) was wiped
out, the amount coming to
sundry creditors was reduced by
£375,658 (of which £300,000
was repayment of a loan from
the London co.), while book-
debts increased by £239,225 and
cash, etc., by £332,964. To do
all this and add £85,741 net to
the book-value of freeholds,
stocks were reduced by £975,491
and an extra £361,518 was raised
on mortgage, surplus earnings,
etc., providing the balance. For
the most part, the reduction in
stocks—due partly to sale of the
chemicals business —took place
before the drop in prices of im-
ported raw materials, thanks to
timely advice from London.
The price of the f.-p. ss. ords.,
which had dropped to 13s. to-
ward the close of 1952, stood at
17s. last week, giving a re-
turn of 4.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The £1 5 p.c. prefs. at
19s. 6d. yield 5.1 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £27 12s. prefs.
and 11s. 4d. ords.
Amalgamated Textiles
rr is difficult to say precisely
what the future holds for this
co. Appearances are that net
results will remain very sensitive
to changes in the economic
climate for some years ahead.
The medium-grade worsteds and
other products turned out by the
mills at Albury, Orange and
Goulbum enjoy an excellent
reputation in the market. Plant,
to which substantial additions
have been made since the war, is
reported in good order and effi-
cient. It is not overvalued in the
books, nor are the freeholds.
The co.’s two biggest handicaps
are : (1) that it has never had an
opportunity to accumulate much
in the way of fat, and (2) the
position of the mills in relation
to the main (metropolitan)
markets is a handicap so far as
overhead is concerned. In this
respect - decentralisation of
manufacture —the co. deserves a
lot better treatment than it has
ever received from the Govern-
ment by way of rail-freight con-
cessions.
After 17 years in the wilder-
ness and the jettisoning of
£211,263 of share capital, the
business got on an even keel in
1940. For the next ten years
very encouraging progress was
made in sheltered and expand-
ing markets —divs. averaged a
shade over 11 p.c,, and reserves
of £146,470 had been built up, as
the following table shows:
Re-
sent., Profit. Dividends. serves.
£ £ &
1949..66,933 15.88 p.c. = 36,782 147,583
Special tax provision, £24,500 123,083
1950..60,169 15.38 p.c. = 36,782 146,470
Special tax provision, £24,500 170,970
Share premiums, £38,042 .. 209,012
Loss.
1951.. 35,077 4.6 p.c. = 14,896 159,089
Tax overprovided, £4lBl .. 163,220
1952..65,494 Nil 97,726
Profit.
1953..38,278 Nil 38,278 136,004
The losses in 1950 and 1951 re-
suited not from any laxity on the
part of management, but firstly
from the collapse of raw-wool
prices and consequent heavy
writing-down (£160,503) of the
book-value of stocks in 1951,
and secondly from a temporary
withering of demand for the co. : s
products—output of the three
mills was cut by 75 p.c. early
in the 1952 term —and other
difficulties which followed the
import flood.
However, trade picked up to-
ward the close of accounts in
1952, and continued to improve
as the 1953 term advanced,
thanks largely to import restric-
tions and the strengthening of
wool prices, etc. The resilience
of earnings is reflected in the
following comparison of p. and 1.
figures:—
1951. 1952. 1958.
Gross earnings £63,910t £10,046 £139,719
Less—
Exes. .. 86,653 64,525 71,184
Depreciation 12,834 11,015 80,307
Taxation .. Nil Nil Nil
Net profit .. 85.077 J 66,494* 88,278
t After writing down stocks by £160,503.
* Loss.
No tax was payable last term,
owing to previous losses, and a
tight hold was kept upon con-
trollable outgoings, as the rela-
tively small increase (£6609) in
exes, shows. The £38,278 of
profit was equal to 10 p.c. on
capital; but no div. was paid,
money being wanted to help re-
vival of trading activity.
The growth in book-debts was
£100,402, and in stocks (in at the
lower of cost or market-value)
£60,876:
1951. 1952. 1963.
Paid capital £382,520 £382,520 £382,520
Reserves .. 159,041 97,728 186,006
Overdraft .. 284,952 179,997 229,659
Sundry
creditors 137,216 34,351 86,840
Tax reserve 4,181
Final div. .. 2,769
£970,668 £694.596 £834,525
Freeholds .. 88,696 98,422 98,222
Plant, etc... 143.486 135,431 114,279
Stocks .. 484,785 862.767 423,643
Book debts.. 253.761 97,869 198,271
Cash, etc. .. 90 107 110
£970,668 £694,596 £834,625
The co. went to its bankers for
an extra £49,662, and increased
the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £51,989. The im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£306,025) was
£59,630.
The position has further im-
proved since the close of
accounts and shareholders await
the board’s decision in respect
of an interim div. for the current
term, which is to be considered
when results for the half-year
to March 31, 1954, are known,
the chairman says.
At 9s. 3d. the f.-p. 10s. lOd.
shares would return 5.8 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. distribution. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is
14s. Bd.
Austral Mining Co., N.L.
A DELAIDE-controlled Austral
Mining Co., N.L, which re-
cently took a three-months
sampling option over a gold
lease about 20 miles from Bull-
finch (W.A.), has now taken a
two-years option over the
Manxman South leases (W.A.)
on favorable terms. Total pur-
chase-price of the Manxman
option, if exercised, is £lO,OOO,
and the vendor has the right to
purchase at par 50,000 con-
tribs. in any co. formed to work
the property.
Austral is also jointly in-
terested with Pioneer Mines,
N.L., and Poseidon, N.L., in
adjoining leases on the Yenberri
uranium reserve (N.T.), where
work has been held up by the
wet season. A geiger-counter
survey and surface-trenching
suggest that these leases might
yield satisfactory results. So a
new operating co,. Uranium
Oxide, N.L., nominal capital
£lOO,OOO in 2s. shares, is being
formed to further examine and
develop the prospects.
The three lease-holding cos,
will each subscribe for 200,000
of the operating co.’s contribs..
payable 6d. each on application,
and a further 300,000 shares are
to be reserved for subscription
by those on the holding cos.
registers.
The physical task of mining
uranium-ore, and the capital
ou tlay involved, are little, if
any> different from the same two
factors in the mining of other
Qres Results will depend
imaril the extent and
£ th % denos ; t the assay-
s ’ lltag . pr J s
Australian
Atomic Energy Commission will
ore offering at prices
f flO ,f er ton f or
assaying 0.25 p.c. uranium-
t y fd n ner t J, n f or ip c
™e and £H per ton where ?he
tn 7 n C
ic ° Austral . s 2s .
e act.has
shot up from 3d. to Is. lid. in
" ** ** **
m


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Sir Edmund and Lady Herring, of
South Yarra, have announced the
engagement of their eldest daughter, Dr.
Molly Herring, to Claude Donald Long-
field, son of Mrs. Harry M. Lowe, of
Barwon Heads, and the late Mr.
Claude M. Longfield. Engagement was
celebrated by both families at Barwon
Heads. The wedding-date has not yet bgeq.
set, as Dr. Herring is to continue her
work at the Royal Children’s Hospital
this year. She is soon to take over the
position of psychiatric registrar at the
hospital, where she has been since she
returned from her post-graduate studies
abroad in 1950. The ring is a single
diamond with three smaller diamonds
set on each side,
☆ * *
In the floodlit garden of Cliff House,
the Mt. EliZa home of Sir Norman and
Lady Brookes, over 400 guests enjoyed
a party organised for the Frankston
Community Hospital. There were two
dance-floors —one under the trees on
the cliff overlooking the bay and the
other on the tennis-court. Mrs. N. A.
Gray was president of the organising
group, Mrs. G. Kirwan ticket-secretary,
and Mrs. Gordon Ayrey in charge of
decorations. Mrs. Harold Holt pre-
sented a “glimpse of 1954 glamor” with
mannequins parading the fashions in this
Midsummer’s-Eve setting. Sir Norman
and Lady Brookes had their daughter
and son-in-law, Sir Harold and Lady
Gengoult Smith, in their party, Mrs.
Harold Holt’s guests included Dame
Pattie Menzies and daughter Heather, and
the French Ambassador, M. Louis Roche,
and Madame Roche.
*
Leading up to the Queen’s visit next
month, members of the Overseas
League will have a busy few weeks. On
February 3 Colombo-Plan university
students from India will be among
guests at a luncheon at the Victoria, The
High Commissioner of India, General
K. M. Cariappa, will be guest-of-honor.
On St. Valentine’s Eve (Feb. 13) the
Younger Group will have a barbecue at
the home of Mrs. Fred Brockhoff in
Queen’s-road. But the most exciting
function will be the Rose of England
Ball on the night of the Queen’s arrival
in this city (February 24). In this func-
tion the Overseas League is joining with
the Council of British Empire Societies;
all members wishing to attend should
telephone Mr. Hudson at the Overseas
League clubrooms for application cards.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the gayest parties for young
people during the Royal visit will be the
coming-out dance, given by Sir Norman
and Lady Brookes, for their only
granddaughter, Marion Gengoult Smith.
Date is set for March 4 and dance will
be held in the ballroom of Kurneh, their
South Yarra home, Marion will begin
an Arts course at the University when
the vacation is over. Attractive Gillian
Collins, daughter of the First Naval
Member, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins,
and Lady Collins, will also make her
debut at Marion’s party.
* ☆ *
Members of the publicity committee
for the Y.W.C.A. Empire Gala Concert
met informally at the Toorak home of
Mrs. Betty Fitzgerald to discuss plans for
the function, which takes place in the
Town Hall on February 18. The
Governor and Lady Brooks will attend,
and artists will be Isador Goodman,
Marie Collier, Harold Williams, Solomon
Segal and Eunice Garland. The chairman
of the publicity committee is Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson, and she will be assisted by Mrs.
Hector Greig, Mrs. Max Hewitt, Mrs.
W. J. Cuming, Mrs. C. Buchanan, Reta
Findlay and Mr. H. L. Berg. Preferential
bookings may be made now with the
Appeal Secretary, Y.W.C.A., and
ordinary bookings at Allan’s from
February 12. Mrs. Peter Isaacson
(BJ5797), Mary Lewis (BJ1948) and
Elizabeth McMeekin (U3645) are ticket-
secretaries.
* ☆ ☆
British designers are making a bid to
capture the lead in high fashion, and in
a collection seen this week are well on
the way to success. Cottons, fine
ẅ
Mrs. John Cain, wife of the Premier,
is chairman of the committee which is
organising the women’s luncheon to be
held on March 2 at St. Kilda Town Hall,
and which her Majesty will attend. Func-
tions at which Mrs. Cain will assist her
husband receive the Queen will be the
State banquet on February 27 and the
State reception on March 8. Mrs. Cain is
fond of racing, and dresses quietly and
elegantly. Photo by John Warlow.
ŵ
ẁ
SYDNEY
One of the things that people living
in democratic countries are proud of is
that they may grizzle as much as they
like (provided they don’t grizzle at a
policeman) without incurring any direct
penalty. For this reason it is heartening
to know that there is scarcely one func-
tion set down for the Royal visit which
has not brought forth a spate of com-
plaints, protests, grievances and “letters
to the editor.”
There was a complaint that the Gothic
was to be towed into the Harbor. There
was another that she was not to be towed
in. There was indignation that Mr,
Menzies was to precede Mr. Cahill.
There was fury that he was not to do so.
It was thought ridiculous that poli-
ticians should take part in the Royal
Progress through the streets (they might
think the cheers were for them). It was
deplored that the M.L.A.’s got all the
good positions. It was resented that
the M.L.C.’s were overlooked.
North Sydney felt slighted, neglected,
and then was infuriated that the Bridge
will be closed at 7 a.m. on the morning
of the landing and the last ferry will
leave at the same time, although the
Queen is not due to arrive until 10.30 a.m.
That the Queen will not travel by car to
Hornsby instead of by train has brought
deputations, speeches, pleadings, but no
results.
The Royal Progress through the slums
has been scoffed at. “You don’t bring
your visitors through the back way to
see the dustbins and the empty bottles!”
said a protester. Complaints that the
houses out Cleveland-street way are
shabby and that their balconies are
rotten were numerous. (This could, of
course, be met by painting them and
fixing the balconies up.)
There have been heartburnings over
the luncheon for women’s organisations.
Some office-bearers who received invita-
tions are also going to the garden-party
and the ball, but they are going to the
luncheon, too, and few will pass their
tickets on to less fortunate members.
There was some bitterness that invita-
tions to the Lord Mayor’s Ball were
available even to aldermen who lost their
seats last December and to six of their
friends, to ex-members of Parliament
who have been out of office for 20 years
or more, and to the two new Communist
aldermen, while many members of the
fashionable world “who go everywhere
that matters,” and even some members
of the Consular Corps, were left out.
The concert, or Royal Gala Com-
mand Performance, as it is called, has
come in for severe criticism. Why
should it include Tommy Trinder (the
Queen has seen him)? Why should it
include bagpipes? Why girl bagpipers?
Why not Australian? Why not Irish, for
that matter?
Why was Bondi chosen for the surf
carnival? Why not Manly? Why was
the Mayor of Waverley not invited to
Rand wick races? Why was it said two
AJ.C. members put their names in twice
for the ballot for the Royal enclosure
{cheats!) ? Why do people stare at the
Queen through binoculars? What hap-
pened to the 60 Royal Worcester coffee-
saucers that were to be used at the AJ.C.
luncheon? Why is there so much for-
mality? Why can’t the Queen meet more
young people? Why didn’t I get any in-
vitations? Why should that tatty couple
over the street get them? Why won’t
some people decorate their shops on the
procession-route, etc., etc.? I think it’s
disgraceful!
But in spite of all these grumbles,
fears are gradually falling away as the
city blossoms forth in one spot after
another with brilliant decorations and
magnificent arches. The rehearsal of
the Queen’s landing and progress through
the city on Sunday went off so well that
optimism definitely broke in.
Highlights of the rehearsal included the
beauty of Farm Cove itself with its two
semicircles of yachts and small craft,
their masts gaily waving bunting and
pennants. These will form a “guard of
honor” for the Royal barge.
Then there was the beautiful design
of the pontoon, with its graceful white
canopy, the dais, its trellis-top canopy
painted a delicate blue, and the official
w
Attractive Mrs. John Bovill is a member
of the committee for the Ball of the
Royal Australian Artillery Association
(N.S.W.) which will take place at the
Trocadero on Tuesday, February 9.
The proceeds of the ball will be divided
between the Big Brother Movement ,
Legacy and the Crippled Children’s
Society. Photo by Dorothy Welding.
ẁ


10,000 MEMBERS ALREADY!
/CudPm/ca*i
BOY
N
m MfcHßtP
BOYS!
Join this Club today!
There are FREE BADGES and
VALUABLE PRIZES
All you have to do is buy a copy
of the
AUSTRALIAN “BOY”
MAGAZINE 9d.
and fill in the Coupon
Jfke ALL-BRITISH
<=S/W ALL* Dili • I JUI
G»yw)
gtetdart
From
25/-
to
65/-
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO, LTD., LONDON
Divorce Notices ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JNEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOYCE PENNY late of Paddington.—
TAKE NOTICE that DERICK FRANCIS
PENNY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3820 of 1958 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of April
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ALLAN B. CUPII
& BEST, Solicitors, of Federal Mutual
Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD CROOK late of Common-
wealth Hostel. Wallerawang.—TAKE
NOTICE that CORAL EILEEN CROOK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4699
of 195 J on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 2nd April 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from JOHN
O. STEGGALL, Solicitor, of 98 Vincent
Street, Oessnock, or his Agent, MESSRS.
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors, 70-72
King Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney %
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
*'METROPOLE
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
•!UII
II
m
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Archibald and Wynne
Awards so clearly and indis-
putably merited as Ivor Hele’s
in this year’s Archibald Prize and
Lance Solomon’s in the Wynne
are rare in these competitions ;
partly because the trustees, how-
ever exalted in connoisseurship,
are necessarily fallible; partly
because there is usually stronger
competition ; and partly because
the public loves a row.
This year one doesn’t see what
else the trustees could possibly
have done. If Ivor Hele had not
taken the Archibald with his
portrait of Sir Henry Simpson
Newland, then he must surely
have taken it with his portrait
of John Horner. Both have the
same vitality, the same impres-
sion of portraiture as accurate
as it is forceful, the same fidelity
of flesh-tones and strength of
modelling.
Neither has the grotesque
over-largeness of some of Hele’s
entries in other years; and if in
both the surface of the paint
looks too oily, the other high
qualities override this defect.
Clearly improving each year, this
South Australian artist is a very
welcome force in the competi-
tion.
The only serious challenge to
the trustees’ decision could have
come from Arthur Murch’s
portrait of Douglas Stewart: it
would be a contest of vigor
against subtlety, and the vigor,
by no means lacking in depth of
observation, won. Noel Couni-
han’s portrait of Vance Palmer,
strongly painted and an excel-
lent likeness, must also have been
considered, likewise Dargie’s
typically competent painting of
Sir Colin Sinclair and the pink
Max Meldrum.
There are charm and person-
ality expressed in paint too thin
and smooth (especially the fore-
arm) in J. Noel Kilgour’s Miss
Lorraine Millard; K. Kling-
stedt’s Professor Harry Messe!
at least catches the eye with an
interesting face; Graham
Thorley’s Adrian Riordan is
perhaps worth mentioning as a
lively if unfinished - looking
oddity; and something must also
be said, no doubt, about William
Dobell’s impression of Harry
Stevenson, looking like an echo
from Picasso’s “harlequin”
period with curious bulges of
green in a cubist pattern of
lozenges and hose-pipes . . . but
what to say, other than that,
rather baffles the present com-
mentator. It seems rather late
in the day to start that sort of
thing and it looks strangely tame,
as if Dobell himself didn’t really
believe in what he was doing.
If Murch and perhaps Dargie
and Counihan offer some com-
petition for Hele, there is none
for Lance Solomon in the
Wynne.
His “The River Bend,” which
took the prize, is a fine stretch
of winding water, tall ragged
gums, red earth and heaped-up
driftwood, all baking in hot Aus-
tralian sunlight, and if one has
seen a more romantic charm in
other Solomon landscapes,
especially his foaming sea-pieces
and his explorations of light in
the deep forest, it still has the
rare sensitivity of observation
and technique we have come to
expect.
Lance Solomon’s second entry,
the large “Blue Day,” is much
too blue: as if conscious crafts-
manship had been allowed to
intervene too openly in the pure
“encounter” (to use Constable’s
term) between Nature and the
artist.
Of the other paintings, the
most interesting are a strong
“Quarry” by Herbert Carstens
(perhaps dimly related to “Fire’s
On”); Charles Meere’s “Rain
and Shine” (much better than
the larger “Garden” where his
meticulous technique falls away
into thinness and vacuity); two
or three mildly-pleasing water-
colors ; Charles Bush’s “Rain
Forest” ; and Garrett Kingsley’s
“Gumtrees” —a painting showing
too much of the influence of
Lance Solomon to have, for all
its charm, a truly independent
existence.
The entries for the Sulman
competition are the usual
inexplicable muddle of nothing-
in-particular. Eric Smith’s win-
ning mural of “Convicts,
Berrima, 1839” is absent, being
in situ in the Berrima court-
house.
$
Firstfruits of the 1954 art
season in Melbourne are
Graham Thorley’s portraits and
landscapes at the Athenaeum.
Mr. Thorley was a pupil of the
late W. B. Mclnnes and has
some of his master’s virtues —
and defects. Fib has the knack
and he can catch a likeness, but
he misses that inner thing that
makes all the difference between
a Rembrandt and something
less. “Morning in the Moun-
tains,” “The Sunlight Road,”
“Mount Juliet,” “The Edge of
the Forest” and “The Hill,
Emerald,” stand out from the
other landscapes. In this panel
the artist seems to be trying for
something a bit more subtle and
sometimes gets it.
Stage and Music
“The Innocents”
The weirdly horrible is fairly
reliable dramatic stock-in-trade,
so if you people a large and
lonely house with a house-
keeper, a governess, two
vaguely sinister children, two
ghosts, suggestions of suicide,
perversion and other unmen-
tioned evils, you should be half-
way to good business at the box-
office.
But if William Archibald’s
“The Innocents” (Independent,
North Sydney) deals in those
things, they are not, by any
means, its only attractions.
Style and method are, after all,
more important than subject,
and Archibald works out his
theme with a remarkable sense
of stage values.
The young governess comes
to the vast and lonely old home
and is immensely taken with the
place itself, its gardens, the
10-year-old girl who is to be her
charge and the housekeeper who
runs the place. Within a matter
of hours, however, the ice is on
her spine—ghosts and sinister
shadows move through and
around the place, the girl’s
12-year-old brother is expelled
from school for his inimical
influence on the other boys, and
it slowly evolves that the soul
of the boy is dominated by the
spirit of the valet who was
murdered a few years previ-
ously.
The valet, an incredibly evil
and perverted character, was
“ That's the back-door key, Henry."
also responsible for the suicide
of a previous governess, and her
ghost, too, haunts the cloying,
threatening shadows of the
house and reaches out with a
kind of mournful hunger for the
soul of the little girl.
The play is, of course, an
adaptation of Henry James’s
The Turn of the Screw, and
an extraordinary powerful
stage-piece it makes. There is
an almost ferocious intensity
about it, and the kind of tension
one might feel swimming at
night in black water among
sharks.
Doris Fitton’s production is
a beautifully sensitive one, fully
alive to the moods the author
deals in. Early there were mo-
ments when it brought irrssist-
ibly to mind the ghoulish family
and their rotting mansion
in Charles Addams’s “New
Yorker” drawings, and there-
fore earned a few shrill, ner-
vous titters; but the moving,
menacing shadows, the silent,
sallow ghosts and the trailing
scent of evil that permeates the
piece soon transfixed the
audience.
The four players follow and
illuminate the producer’s inten-
tions with admirable accuracy.
The fears and hysteria of the
governess are effectively con-
trasted against her moments of
disbelief and sunny happiness
by Patricia Hill in a moving and
completely convincing perform-
ance. It is the intense agony of
terror which Miss Hill gets into
her acting at the appropriate
moments that does so much to
transmit the weird and horrible
mood of the play across the
footlights.
The two children contribute
the best juvenile acting this
commentator has seen on a
Sydney stage: Dennis Carroll
for the suggestion he gives of
the mysterious, inextricable
tangle of evil things in the mind
and soul of an outwardly nor-
mal youngster, and Jane Wil-
liams as the girl in her waver-
ing, fleeting responses to the
demands for her soul.
Likewise Olga Yarad’s house-
keeper. The determined sanity
with which she holds down her
nervousness or tries to ignore
the monstrous things around her
give a rock-like contrast and
emphasis to the sucking currents
of mystery and evil which swirl
so darkly through the play.
«£»
“The Day’s Mischief”
This play by Lesley Storm,
put on by John Sumner’s Reper-
torians at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne, is an
intensely written melodrama
about Stephen Barlow, a young
schoolteacher who invites one
of his prettiest pupils to his
house to help her with her
Latin.
Mrs. Barlow asks the girl
whether she is in love with her
husband, which makes the feel-
ing uncomfortably conscious in
the schoolgirl. She also asks
her husband, which makes him
vaguely conscious of his own
feelings about the girl. In the
middle of the wrangle the girl
runs out of the house, and Mr.
Barlow rushes after her. She
disappears, and in a few short
hours the whole village is dis-
cussing the known facts about
the situation. Her fellow-school-
girls are sure that the girl was
pregnant, so it obviously fol-
lows that, to save his reputa-
tion, Mr. Barlow killed her and
threw her body into the river.
The police are busily engaged
dragging the river and Barlow
is on the point of being
arraigned for assault and mur-
der when the girl walks in, hav-
ing, it appears, run away to Lon-
don because she was upset at
Mrs. Barlow’s accusation. She
is completely unaware of the
pother she has been causing.
That would be rather a vacu-
ous point on which to end the
piece, so the author flogs it along
a little further to a conclusion
of melodramatic tragedy.
Brian Wallace, Sylvia Reid,
Jane Adams, Carmel Dunn and
George Fairfax acted the piece
intensely, and Sheila Florance,
as the neurotic, snivelling mother
solely concerned with her own
feelings, gave an extraordinarily
natural bit of acting.
Talkies
“Take the High Ground”
Acknowledgment is made in
this film —about a Korean-
veteran sergeant with only a
limited time to whip some
rookies into shape—to the help-
ful co-operation of the U.S.
Army authorities at Fort Bliss
battle-training ground in Texas.
The film doesn’t co-operate
much in return —its portrayal
of the Army non.-com. should
send recruits flocking to the
Navy.
Richard Widmark turns aside
from his usual tough-civilian
roles to use strong-arm
methods on recruits, who im-
mediately become fired with the
understandable ambition to
pump a bullet into him during
rifle-shooting practice. There
is a spot of tepid romance
brought in so that the doings
won’t be all male.
The film is saved by the
sharp character-drawing among
the rankers and the many
touches of robust humor which
mark their off-parade life —this
is spontaneous and carried
through on a high note. Karl
Malden is another sarge whose
friendship with the tough one
is wrecked (temp.) over the
girl they drink beer with. At
Sydney St. James.
* * ❖
“Hangman’s Knot”
A small Confederate patrol
under Randolph Scott wipes out
a Yankee gold-escort force and
snatches the lucre. Later it’s
learned that the war has been
over for a month. Waal, boys,
what to do with the dough?
Before they can resolve this an
outlaw band lays siege to them
in a farmhouse in which two
coach-passengers also are forced
to take refuge. Need it be
said that one of these is a dark-
eyed beauty (Donna Reed) and
the other her boy-friend, whose
scruples are as narrow as his
yellow streak is wide?
That the gallant patrol-leader
can handle the desperate situa-
tion, first by wily stratagem and
then by shootin’ and tootin’, is
as foregone a conclusion as
that the girl’s eyes will be
opened as to her boy-friend’s
lack of qualities and to the
hero’s solid virtues.
Tension is well handled, and
even the final renunciation of
the gold by the major and his
only other-ranker survivor of
the climactic fight are given an
air of probability. At Sydney
Victory.


Wing off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
EVERY few minutes Hawk
spawned her brood,
squirting them off in the
same swift succession of an
action launching; to climb,
wheel, form-up and orbit in a
fast tight circle above the white-
tailed ship.
No time was wasted upstairs.
With the four new Fireflies
revolving in a wider circle, the
Furies beat round and up the
ship’s starb’d side, 300 ft. up,
while the ship checked that all
arrester-wire hooks were down.
Those arrester-wires were the
secret of the breathtaking hap-
penings of the next few minutes.
Made of immensely strong
flexible steel-wire rope (with a
breaking-strain of round 30 tons),
they reached across the after-
half of the flight-deck—lo of
them. Both ends of each wire
ran over a drum, and were con-
nected to a mechanism some-
thing like the recoil mechanism
of a big naval gun. As the
weight came on, a piston was
forced up a port of decreasing
capacity, forcing liquid through
holes at the end. Thus cushioned,
the wires exercised a nicely-
calculated strain and brought
each aircraft to a (more-or-less)
smooth stop.
Flat on the deck while the
fighters and strike aircraft were
taking-off, the 10 wires were now
lifted about nine inches off the
deck. But there was something
else. If an aircraft came in too
high, or too fast, and its hook
failed to catch one of the wires,
it would end up in a violent
crash among the aircraft parked
at the bow which had landed
before it —there being no time to
strike down each ship as it
landed. So two steel-wire
barriers, something like a Super-
man’s tennis-net, were stretched
across the deck forratd of the
last arrester-wire. These snap
into position with a metallic
clang as powerful tripods,
attached to each end, close
their steel legs and heave
upright.
On the pom-pom platform, the
young surgeon watched. He
would have been on deck even
if duty had not impelled his
presence. The casual skill with
which these madmen diced with
danger every time they shot off
and landed never failed to
fascinate him.
He started. A multiple roar
to starb’d, and the Furies
whistled past, hooks streaming
below their tails. Ten seconds
flying-time past the bridge and
Swan, the leader, banked left,
to circle and sweep down the
port side. Ten seconds after
that the next peeled off simi-
larly, so that they were well
spaced.
The batsman was closed-up
now, on a flimsy projection
backed by black sightboards a
few feet forrard of the rounded-
down stern. Below him the
waves whipped past in quick
retreat; between him and them
waited a steel-wire net, with a
mattress handily and sug-
gestively lashed thereon.
Steaming into-wind, Hawk had
the swell on her beam. The
surgeon felt each roll in his
bones as he waited for Swan’s
Fury to line-up astern. A land-
ing on one wheel, with the fol-
lowing smack-down as the air-
craft tilted one way and the
deck lifted the other to meet it,
was not recommended for either
undercarriages or nerves.
Swan was turning now. The
batsman raised his arms hori-
zontally, in each hand a vividly
yellow bat, as though he were
about to start, thought the
surgeon, an imaginary and
highly exciting game of ping-
pong.
Wheels down, flaps down, the
Fury turned for the stern, seem-
ing, from the surgeon’s position
ahead of him, to hang on his
propeller. But Swan was travel-
ling at about 90 knots. Breath-
less, the surgeon watched. So
did Baumer, spare pilots on the
pom-pom platform, faces of the
flight-deck handlers along the
catwalks edging the deck, and
the firefighters, clumsy in fear-
nought suits, leather seaboots
and red tin-helmets. The surgeon
touched his bag with his foot,
subconsciously assuring himself
of its presence.
Swan was right astern now;
the batsman lowered one hand,
and the corresponding wing of
the Fury lifted. Too high, too
high, the surgeon’s judgment
shouted, even though he had been
proved wrong a thousand times.
But the batsman had him, the
experience of scores of landings
concentrated in the definite
movements of his bats. The
Fury was right above the stern.
The whole ship waited. The
batsman cut his hands sharply
to his knees in front of him,
bending his body with the
vehemence of his order. Cut
engine! The roar died instantly.
The aircraft dropped, lifted its
nose, flicked its tail down. It
missed the first wire, over the
second and caught the third. In
a flash the taut wire lengthened
as it was hauled out. Tie air-
craft swayed, leaped, thumped
on the deck, pitched forward —
and the next second was still.
From 90 knots to a standstill in
160 ft.
At once two men ran out,
knelt against the slipstream and
grappled to disengage the hook.
Watching, the surgeon’s atten-
tion was caught by another black
shape lining-up astern. Hurry!
his brain shouted. A clang, and
the net-barrier dropped to the
deck. The other Fury was round
now, coming in. Tie batsman
had him. The directors had the
landed aircraft; they called him
on. Swan revved-up, ran ahead
of the arrester-wire which had
pulled him up, and which now
slithered back into position.
The oncoming Fury loomed up,
a giant dragonfly. The other
taxied forward towards the
bow and snagged its
improperly-housed hook on the
net-barrier. It dragged to a stop.
God! thought the surgeon.
It can’t possibly be freed in time.
This was the first time he had
seen this! He wanted to shout,
but was restrained by the use-
lessness of it in the drumming
roar of engines, and by the non-
chalance of those other madmen
around him. Then, when it
seemed the other Fury must
touch-down and smash into
Swan’s hooked ship, a Verey
light soared up from beside the
batsman. He crossed his arms in
a wave-off, the landing Fury
opened its throttle and roared
safely over the bridge. The
surgeon let go of the gunlayer’s
seat he had been choking.
Later, on inquiry, he found
that there were several men with
the batsman. One of them, con-
stantly looking forward past the
batsman, warned him of any
hitch. The batsman waved-off at
once, and put his questions
afterwards. Also watching was
Baumer. He pressed the button
which fired the signal-cartridge
by remote-coritrol.
There was no hitch next time.
The next Fury came in, cut,
swooped, caught and jerked to
a stop, the pilot’s head throwing
violently forward. The breathless
sequence went on, till all Furies
were safely gathered in.
From the dark, greenly-
glowing air-direction room, in
which the airborne Fireflies
showed as little sausages of light
on the radar scopes, an order
reached up 3000 ft. into the ether
and ended its flight in Sherwood’s
ear. He acknowledged with the
traditional “Wilco” (“Will co-
operate”), and looked across at
Ventner, flying level with him,
now and then gently dipping, on
his starb’d side. Still watching
his deputy, Sherwood spoke into
his mouthpiece. Ventner re-
mained staring straight ahead,
even while his aircraft leaned,
then fell gracefully away on one
wing towards the carrier.
Sherwood led the rest of his
flight after him, well clear astern.
Regardless of possible repercus-
sions from Baumer, he would
not form-up in the customary
circuit, but would wait, clear,
till Ventner had landed. Also
watching, Hap chewed monoton-
ously, his helicopter positioned
above and abeam of the carrier,
so that his neck was continually
craned sideways, looking down
through the perspex.
Hap shifted uncomfortably in
his hard seat.
“Come on, guy. Set that
goddamn’ buggy down, will yuh?
All right for ...” He tensed,
his eyes staring at the black
plummet streaking along Hawk’s
deck. Sherwood, too, involun-
tarily put his ship’s nose down
in a nearing dive at the carrier.
Ventner’s Firefly was hurtling,
still airborne, almost level with
the bridge.
“God! ” Sherwood muttered.
Rigid, he watched; while
Ventner’s craft flashed past the
bridge, passed the net-barrier,
and skidded with seeming inches
to spare over the packed mass
of landed aircraft on the bow.
Sherwood’s breath eased out
in a low whistle of relief.
“Too high, sir.” He heard
Blake’s voice over the intercom.
Sherwood did not answer. He
was about to speak, to Ventner,
when he realised that nothing he
could say now would help. Being
up, Ventner had to get down.
And there was only one man who
could get her down. As well,
any comments of Sherwood’s
would be heard in the A.D.R. —
and, through it, the whole lower-
deck.
At that last attempt of
Ventner’s, when the Firefly had
bellowed past a few feet above
the deck, too high for its hook to
catch, the surgeon had, definitely
consciously this time, grabbed
his medical bag. He was still
holding it, a tense foreboding
tightening his face, when Ventner
brought her in for his next try.
Even the surgeon could see
there was something wrong.
The batsman was waving his
colored rectangles vehemently,
ordering, mutely, desperately,
Ventner to get her down lower.
At the last moment, with the
Firefly a roaring, flapped tonnage
of metal almost level with the
stem, he waved him off. Perhaps
Ventner did not see the signal;
perhaps, in his mental state, he
decided, instinctively, to trust his
own judgment. The bat-winged
shape hurtled along, over half
the wires, still trying for that
lifesaving clutch. The hook
failed to catch. The Firefly
headed in a roaring rush for the
steel net. At the last moment
Ventner pulled his nose up. It
was too late. The sudden incline
upwards served only to whip
him over the top of the barrier
in a slewing, tortured scream of
shorn metal as the nose crumpled
and the port wing tore off. The
aircraft hurtled on, caught its
remaining wing on the forrard
end of the bridge, then
ricocheted off and smashed
itself into the mobile crane
stowed right on the starb’d edge
of the flight-deck. For a second
the crumpled aircraft hung,
poised, over the creaming sea ;
then its weight wrenched it
down, and over.
Hap was quick. His belt was
slapping the long cockpit almost
before the wreckage had dropped
astern of the speeding ship. A
hand, the observer’s hand,
reached out and grabbed hold.
Chewing furiously. Hap strained
sideways. He could see the
other figure in its cockpit, clearly
as the waves receded. It made
no attempt to answer the
observer’s shouts, even if it
could. The observer was still
shouting, trying to get the safety
section pulled clear in the cock-
pit’s side, when the whole air-
craft settled slowly under the
sea, taking the still figure with it.
The observer himself was up to
his neck in water before Hap
could haul him clear. Three
minutes later he was dropped,
shaking, on the flight-deck.
. Well astern, to one side of
Hawk’s wake, a faintly-marked
circle was visible on the sea.
Soon the marching waves trod its
visible presence under; and the
great shroud of the Inland Sea
rolled on, absorbing as it would
a drop of water the shattered
aircraft, and its passenger, sink-
ing down, deep down into its
pressured depths.
It was as much Sherwood’s
boxing training as his flying skill
which got him down safely, so
shocked was he by the sudden-
ness of Ventner’s death. Shocked,
and angry—angry with a cold
hate that shivered little coils of
tension in his guts and made of
his jaw a jutting shelf.
“Fight with your head, not
your heart,” had been drummed
into him by the Fleet champion
who had taught him. It was his
head, now, conscious of the job
ahead of him, that made him
clamp down on his anger, dis-
cipline the explosive force within
him, as he brought his machine
in for the landing. With Hawk’s
veranda’d bulk lifting 20ft. on
each swell, and his aircraft doing
90 knots, it required all his skill,
unclouded by hatred, to set he
down. As it was, he missed the
first four wires, and just snagged
the fifth.
Perfectionist enough to feel
disgust at his comparatively
clumsy landing, while he flung
off his safety-belt Sherwood
realised how easy it had been for
Ventner, good flyer though he
was, to misjudge so tragically
under his emotional strain. The
thought, added to the vindication
his deputy’s death gave to his
own attempt to have the
youngster excused flying, made
Sherwood actually shiver with
anger as he stood on the deck
beside his aircraft; so that, as
he walked swiftly across the roll-
ing deck, he repeated deliberately
SYNOPSIS
Sherwood returns to his
carrier after a run up the coast
in a destroyer, during which his
temporary craft rescues a tanker
from Communist batteries and
a British minefield. On return,
Swan informs him that Hawk
has taken on more Furies and
Fireflies, which are to be tested
in take-offs and flight next day.
Ventner, Sherwood’s young
deputy, is worried sick over his
wife’s impatience to get him
home to Brisbane and out of the
Navy. Knowing this, the Strike
Leader speaks to him about it.
Ventner replies with an undis-
ciplined outburst which so
shocks Sherwood that he tries to
get Ventner excused flying.
Baumer rudely rebuffs him.
Worried himself now about
what Ventner’s mental condi-
tion could do to his flying, Sher-
wood prepares to take-off for
the exercise, followed by
Ventner.


Mobilco
pays you
fctST
Jt
POST HOLE DIGGER
DRAG SAW
'/T'
RIPPING leg
CROSS CUTTING BENCH
RIPPING BENCH
“*g
Q
POST BORER
fSAW r 6ut7OSES
Fell a tree/ cross-cut it, saw a post, dig a hole,
bore for wire • • • do the lot with ONE
machine. And that machine is the
Mobilco, the handiest farm saw ever. This
grand Tittle machine, light, tough and
rugged, has felled millions of tons
of Australian hardwood and has
fenced hundreds of miles of the
Australian outback. It comes to
you fitted with BSA 7 h.p. engine,
and its got the guarantee you
want—six months unconditional.
Get the full story now.
Write this very day for
all the details. Cash or
Terms as you want it.
ẁ
WORLD PATENTS
GRANTED AND
PENDING.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES ...... BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
MOBIICO
to himself: “Fight with your
head .. . fight with your head! ”
Watching from his platform
the Strike Leader’s impatient
stride, Baumer felt again the
hateful feeling of fear; it dried
his mouth and quivered his full
lips. Breathing quickly, he made
his decision, the same decision
which had sent him, inwardly
shaking, on to the catapult for
a second run. The decision of a
fearful man, not yet so full of
fear that he was not aware of
his defection, who must endeavor
to hide his shame with the
blustering act of extreme
bravado. He climbed quickly
from his position and almost ran
down the ladders to meet
Sherwood.
Baumer almost collided with
the trap-jawed Fireflier as he
turned at the foot of the second
ladder, Baumer’s voice was
raspy.
“Sherwood! Report to me in
my cabin. Now!”
Baumer waited for the
explosion, Sherwood looked at
him in astonishment. Then he
smiled in Baumer’s face, and
turned without a word. In that
brief moment Sherwood was
filled with a feeling of savage,
ruthless superiority. The
superiority of a man who knows
his* enemy’s weakness; know-
ledge which, so potent was its
force, told him he could play
with him like a cat with a mouse.
So certain now was Sherwood
of the enemy who had worried
him for so long, that he was still
smiling, tightly, when Baumer
stepped into the cabin. Sher-
wood was also sadistically
pleased with himself that he had
succeeded in disciplining the
storm within him —sadistically,
because, while he. stared at
Baumer’s sweating red face, he
was debating whether to prick
the bombastic balloon before
him with the hurtful shaft of his
declaration that he knew Baumer
was a coward. While he watched
Baumer fumblingly draw a
cigarette, light it and inhale
jerkily, Sherwood played with his
decision, his smile a sneer twist-
ing one corner of his lips up to
his hooked nose. Baumer spoke,
“Perhaps now, Sherwood, you
will perceive the necessity of that
extra flying-inStruction I ordered.
Ventner, your particular respon-
sibility, was particularly in need
of it. Damn him! That’s the
first fatal landing I’ve had in this
ship! ”
Sherwood’s mouth dropped
open in amazement.. He listened
to Baumer talking, the voice
thick, jerky, blustering ; so start-
lingly irratiohal was Baumer’s
argument that only gradually was
Sherwood’s, disbelief replaced by
the realisation of what really was
behind the other’s bombastic
attack; realisation that it was,
actually, defence.
With realisation came de-'
cision. Staring at the scar-
slashed redness of Baumer’s
sweating face, Sherwood under-
stood that if he now disclosed
his knowledge, faced Baumer
with his own cowardice, then
the Commander Air, normally
efficient, would become, instead,
an irresponsible menace to the
whole ship. * And Sherwood’s
experience did not need the
official confirmation of the
captain to appreciate that Hawk
had shipped her extra aircraft
for some particularly heavy work
ahead.
He watched Baumer stab his
cigarette in the ashtray. Look-
ing down at the wet collar of
his neck visible above the white
shirt, a fleeting feeling of pity
filled Sherwood for this mental
wreck of a man. Then he
remembered Ventner. He tapped
Baumer on the shoulder.
Baumer came upright, to stare,
alert with apprehension, into a
face hard and grim with anger
Sherwood stood directly before
him. His big hands were slowly
rubbing up and down his thighs,
itching.
“Baumer.” His voice was
curt, controlled. The com-
mander started at the unfamiliar
form of address. “You know,
and I know, that what you’ve
been saying is a packet of bloody
rot.”
Baumer’s head jerked up
angrily.
“What the devil . . . ” he
started. Sherwood shut him up
w ith a gesture.
“Listen to me-and listen
well. As far as your command
of flying operations in the ship
goes, you are my superior officer.
But . . . ” The big pilot thrust
his face into Baumer’s, his eyes
and mouth slitted. “If you inter-
fere again with an operational
decision of mine—as you did
with Ventner—l’ll thrash the life
out of you!”
The last words were delivered
with a rasping intensity that
made Baumer recoil.
He recovered, to come at
Sherwood, mouthing. The pilot
stopped him with one hand
spread on his chest.
“Careful, Baumer,” he almost
whispered. “This is a game I
know. You know I could thrash
you one-handed. So mark this,
Baumer. Don’t—cross—my—
bows!”
Sherwood stepped back a
p ace? fithely, waiting. Baumer
starec j hotly at him a moment,
Then he dropped his eyes.
“Qet out of here!” he said,
Tbe wor( j s wer e intense, but
lacked conviction. Sherwood’s
smile was back. He knew, now,
his man was beaten.
“With pleasure,” he answered,
and stepped over the coaming
into the passage.
CHAPTER XI
'-pHAT afternoon, her testing
1 completed, Hawk returned
to base. Sherwood and Swan'
were in the. bar, lubricating for
dinner. Both men were serious—
not at Baumer’s business, Sher-
wood having kept that, and his
threat, to himself—but at what
the captain had told his
assembled pilots shortly before
the ship had tujned for base,
They had assumed that the Aus-
tralian carrier had brought up a
sufficiency of replacement air-
craft; what they had not
counted on was that they would
be using them so soon and so
hard.
Standing before them in ffie
smoke-room a casual giant, his
hands behind his back, his voice
even, the captain had finished:
“As you know, our predecessor,
before she left, in nine days of
continuous flying, maintained an
average of over 83 sorties per
day, with a grand total of 749
sorties. We are going to better
that average.” ,
He had paused, looking over
the ranks of attentive young
faces. His own face was grim.
“Not because this is a competi-
tion-but because the British
Commonweal* Division needs
every blt of help we can give
them. The enemy has taken good
advantage of the truce talks. He
is attacking in considerable
strength. We sail at 0300. bull
flights of fighters and strike air-
cra ft w ill be ranged at dawn.
That’s all,”
They had stood while the big
figure strode out and back to the
bridge. .. „
“Well, chaps,” Boofhead broke
the tension, “who said the
Aussies worked a forty-hour
week! ”
They had trooped out, talking
with animation
Swan drank deeply and put
his glass on the bar He looked
sideways at his friend.
Those sluice-gates on the Han
River l —the Yanks had a crack
recently, didn’t they?”
Sherwood nodded.
“I wouldn’t risk my neck by
letting Hap hear this,” he said,
“but apparently their crack
merely cracked 'em. Anyway,
as Jelly-belly intimated, the
Gooks have got em working
again.
Swan nodded to the steward,
He smiled wryly at Sherwood,
no . leave business to-
night-s upse , my plans a bit.
y oung Beryl and I had mten-
tions ...» H e broke off with
an impis h grin. “Speaking of
Beryl—speaking of Natalie I
rec k o n you’d better get word to
her yourse lf this time. Eh?”
Sherwood idly moved his glass
in a wet circle on the bar.
“From what Intelligence
re p or ts, 500-pounders will handle
those sluice-gates all right. While
we ’ re delivering ’em, you might
remem ber that the Gook will be
delivering most of the consider-
able he’s got in the area.”
Swan watched him, the sur-
prised arc of his eyebrows level-
g out j nto a g i ance G f sudden
unders t a nding. So that’s how
the wind blows? eh? r won der
, 9 Aloud he answered:
“Trust vour little Swannie.
B the way detailed a new
Number Three for Ventner vet?”
» Y es ” Sherwood answered
((Continued on next page)


shortly. He twirled his glass
faster.
“Get rid of that and have
another,” Swan said hastily.
“We won’t get much of the
dartin’ stuff tomorrow,” he went
on, suddenly serious. “The Old
Man certainly means to squirt
’em off.”
“Which reminds me.” Sher-
wood drained his glass. “Dinner.
I need some sleep. Coming?”
“Dick.”
Sherwood halted, and looked
back at his pint-sized friend. He
waited. Swan was about to con-
tinue ; about to ask Sherwood
about Natalie. • A glance at the
almost harsh face before him
altered his mind. Sherwood,
obviously, did not care to discuss
that subject.
“Any mail today?” Swan
finished lamely.
Sherwood looked his surprise.
“Mail? You’ve got a pocketful
of it. What d’ you mean?”
Swan slapped his chest, “So
I have. So I have. Must be
getting the dingbats. Come on—
food,”
They entered the big, talk-
filled room opposite the bar.
Sherwood sat down and un-
folded his napkin. He stared
silently at the animated scene
before him. He had not been
willing to discuss Natalie, but he
was certainly thinking about her.
Swan was right. If he failed to
ring her tonight— not to discuss
ship’s movements, of course—
but, well, just to talk, she would
be ropeable when she found the
ship had left. On the destroyer’s
bridge his thoughts had been
hazy, indefinite, about her. Now,
they were crystallised. He did
not wish to see her. Later, per-
haps, when the consciousness of
her eagerness had worn off a
bit . . . Hell, he thought illogi-
cally, why hadn’t she been a
little . . . harder to get? Con-
“The last words were delivered with a rasping intensity that made Baumer recoil. He recovered to come at Sherwood,
mouthing. The pilot stopped him with one hand spread on his chest.”
scious of his own specious hypo-
crisy, considering his desire at
the time, and conscious at the
same time of the feeling of
disgust her avidness engendered,
he picked up a bread roll and
tore it roughly in two.
Swan, watching him covertly,
wondered. It could be Baumer;
it could be young Ventner; and
it could be Natalie. The little
Fury pilot sipped his soup
thoughtfully. Whatever it was,
it was not good for the man on
whom the success, and safety, of
the coming heavy operations
mainly depended.
“Dick,” Swan said suddenly.
“Yes?”
“I’d like to thrash that sluice-
gate procedure out later,
Again.”
Sherwood nodded, grinning.
“Far as I’m concerned, your
main procedure is to stick close
on Uncle Richard’s back, I’m
glad to note your paternal
interest, old feller.”
Swan broke his own roll.
“And I’m glad to note that grin
back,” he murmured to himself.
Sherwood was woken from a
fathoms-deep sleep by the
corporal of the gangway’s: “Are
you awake, sir?” The corporal
had repeated the idiotic question
twice before he received any
response from the long figure in
the bunk under the open port-
hole. He had been about to
shake the officer, trusting to luck
that Sherwood would not re-
member that he had been
physically assaulted —for that’s
what it would have amounted to,
there being a decree in the Navy
that no officer is to be awakened
by actual physical contact; and
the awakener was required to go
on repeating his obviously-
answered question till the awakee
answered him —he was about to
reach out his hand when Sher-
wood rolled over and opened his
eyes.
Once awake, his reaction was
immediate.
“What’s the weather?”
“Fine and clear, sir.”
“Thank you, corporal,” said
Sherwood, and stretched.
The corporal, official shaker in
harbor, had had long experience
of awakening the Firefly leader,
and knew that, unlike most of
the young brats in the pilots’
sleeping quarters, he ‘would
remain awake. To make sure,
however, he switched on the light
as he went out. That was another
queer aspect of this war that was
not a war. A few hours’ flying-
time from the actual scene of
operations, a man was allowed
to switch on the light, destroying,
as that action would, the cabin
occupant’s night-eyes. Tomorrow
night it would be worth the
corporal’s life if he flooded that
cabin with eye-confusing light,
Sherwood rubbed his eyes,
rubbed the stubble on his chin
reflectively, and jack-knifed
himself slowly, stretching. He
yawned as his feet touched the
deck, and stood in front of the
mirror a moment, scratching his
belly enjoyably. Still yawning,
he collected shaving-gear, tooth-
brash, towel and slippers, stepped
out into the dim passageway,
thumped loudly on Swan’s
door, was cursed, and made his
way to the bathroom.
All through the great ship, in
mess-decks heavy with the
effusions of hundreds of men
sleeping in the confines of
’tween-decks, she was stirring;
stirring irritably, grumpily,
coming grudgingly to life.
Half an hour later, her tugs
hooked on. Hawk, now fully
awake, warped slowly from her
pier and had her blunt nose
hauled round to face the open
sea. She was darkened, a black
bulk, the straight edge of her
flight-deck cut into steeples by the
praying-mantis shapes of broken-
winged aircraft which already
were coming up the lifts.
With her tug flipped, she
moved at gathering speed into
the dark, open sea.
At the same time twenty-four
hours later. Swan looked at his
companion on the flight-deck.
“Hap,” he said, “I’d be
grateful for a slice of that jaw-
manipulator of yours.”
“Sure thing, Buddy,” grinned
Hap, diving into his rear pocket,
“You guys might win your wars
on the playin’ fields of—er —that
joint of yours, but, far’s we’re
concerned—for Eisenhower read
Wrigley.”
“Certainly freshens up the old
bird-cage,” said Swan, chewing.
He looked at his watch, then up
at the lightening sky. “Who’d
be a bloody fighter-pilot?”
Hap grinned. “Think of the
responsibility—protectin’ fowls
like Sherwood Though
why the hell you guys gotter
take-off so dad-blamed early
beats me. We ain’t flyin’ off the
bomber boys for a while yet.”
Swan rubbed his nose, looking
up at the Yank.
“Babes never learn, eh? I
seem to remember a certain
harbor once, which —er —was
somewhat cast before swine.”
“Okay, okay,” Hap grimaced,
“So they caught us with our
pants down. A man oughter
take his gum back for that
crack.”
He peered along the flight-
deck.
“H’m. Five-hundred pounders.
Say, Sherwood, what’s these
sluice-gates you guys are after?”
Sherwood held out his hand.
“The knowledge you seek,
friend Yank, was gained by the
bravery and devotion to duty of
one recco pilot—namely, one
Swan. Therefore, its passing on
will cost you another slab of
gum.”
“Want me to run out of
ammo?” grumbled Hap. He
handed over the gum.
“Well,” continued Sherwood,
chewing appreciatively, “the
three gates are in dyke walls
built round the mouth of the
river to keep back sea water at
high tide from their paddy
fields. If there’s too much
fresh water in the fields—rain,
and so on—they open a gate at
low tide and ran off the surplus
freshers. They do the same to
drain off water when they harvest
their rice. It will be seen, there-
fore, friend Yank, that a few
bombs or rockets lobbed in said
gates will, on one side, if it’s low
tide, drain the water in which
the rice grows, and, on the other,
at high tide, let in sea water in
which the rice will not grow. The
whole area is nicely channelled
for irrigation—and wo attack at
high tide. On that rice rely those
damned Gook anti-aircraft
gunners for their irrigation.”
“As do their wives and kids,
eh?” said Hap.
“As do their wives and kids,”
answered Sherwood evenly.
“Ah, well,” summed-up Hap,
“the whole goddamn’ business is
cockeyed, anyway.”
“That, my Amurrican buddy,
is this morning’s profound
truth,” put in Swan.
Sherwood put his helmet on.
“Having encompassed the
stupidity of mankind,” he
grinned, “I’m off to have a look
at what the armorers are doing
to encompass its finish. See you
later.”
He strode off down the flight-
deck, towards the serried ranks
of broken-winged aircraft.
“Good boy, that,” said Hap,
looking after the tall flyer.
“They don’t come much
gooder,” agreed Swan.
Sherwood threaded his way in
through the foremost ranks of
Fury fighters, silent now, their
wings broken and folded upward,
like hands joining fingertips to-
gether in mute supplication.
The impression of prayer was
spoiled somewhat by the pro-
truding barrels of the wing-
cannon, the open mouths grin-
ning with menace. And by the
sleek-nosed rockets fitted under
the wings of the first. Swan’s
Fury, which had her arms down
and locked in position, ready.
Sherwood stopped in front of
his own ship, on which the
armorers were working. He
looked about him, his imagina-
tion impressed by the quiet dead-
liness of the scene. From the
ship’s square bow, swooping in
long rises over the lightening
seas, a breeze flowed back down
the cleared flight-deck, to whisper
and feel its tentative way down
the streamlined surfaces of
Hawk’s quiet hornets. They
crouched there, dark and
ominous in their latent power,
indifferent to the comparative
zephyr of the ship’s passage.
Filling his lungs with the crisp
air, Sherwood felt a lifting pride
in his heart as he gazed at the
upper-works of the great ship,
From the bombing-up team just
behind him to the radar aerials
swinging smoothly above the
bridge structure, she was a highly
complex and skilfully integrated
machine of singleminded
purpose—destruction. Hawk’s
claws were sheathed—at the same
time as they were being shar-
pened. Soon, she would com-
mence her long-range slashing.
Sherwood felt a sudden keen
delight in his job. There was a
corollary with his boxing—as
with his fists, he had trained him-
self here to deliver the same sort
of attack; fast, ripping punches,
delivered explosively and with
surprise. And, after what the
Old Man had told them, there
would be plenty of backstops
and fresh deliveries to follow.
Sherwood’s superbly muscled
frame tingled at the thought.
The coming missions would
require every ounce of his skill
and stamina. As a highly-
trained fighter, the Strike Leader
relished the thought.
As for the thought of danger—
he had long trained himself,
through the harsh dictates of
necessity, to ignore it. Except
that time when instinct, his mind
unprepared, had salted his
mouth with fear when the enemy
bullets had rung with hammei-
blows on the nose of his downed
aircraft in the valley.
He turned at a voice behind
him.
“There she comes, sir.”
“Oh, good morning, Blake.”
“Morning, sir.”
Pilot and observer stared back
over Hawk’s starb’d quarter. She
was steaming a little west of
north, having rounded the
southernmost tip of the tongue
of Korea. Above the rim of the
world astern, one moment a
straight edge, the next a fanged
line of waves, the eastern horizon
was aglow with the fires of
dawn. What had been dark sky
above them was now a miracle of
delicate pink tints. Then the sea
astern was shot by the blood-
ied play of gleams, streaming
from a curved sliver of color lift-
ing itself above the horizon. The
glowing light of the rising sun
flashed and ran over the water.
It limned ship and sea in
roseate glory ; until presently the
sun heaved itself clear of the
rising and falling scallops of the
waves, and outlined the ship in
hard, definite brilliance. Above
them the delicate pinks deepened
into the melted blue of the vast
well of the sky.
Lovely, Sherwood thought.
Aloud, he said: “Fine flying
weather, Blake,”
“Thank Gawd for that, sir,"
the observer answered fervently.
Yes, thought Sherwood—
thank God. They had enough to
buck, without the weather turn-
ing dirty on them.
He moved over and idly
watched his armorers, indifferent
to the glories of sunrise, grunt-
ing as they clamped the 500-
pounders into the racks under
her wings. His interest was idle.
In all the hundreds of sorties he
had flown over Korea, his
ammunitioning team had not let
him down once.
For another hour the carrier
steamed away from the sun, leav-
ing a great wide wake, as though
unrolling a great wide parch-
ment upon the sea. Then the
navigator bent to the wheelhouse
voice-pipe.
Sherwood and Swan watched
her squat nose slide across the
blue weld of the horizon. She
began to lean, her list easily
distinguishable as the great flight-
deck tilted. Over, further. The
graceful curve of her bow-
wave jetted abruptly into life
from her stem, and swept back,
as though an artist were in-
exhaustibly flashing long, undu-
lating strokes with a great white
brush against her side. Ten
seconds more and the swinging
slowed; then she steadied, dead
into wind.
“Right, chaps,” Swan
murmured.
As though Baumer had heard
him, his magnified voice rang
across the quiet deck,
“Fury pilots man your air-
craft.”
“Well, choom,” went on Swan,
grinning up at Sherwood. He
carefully smoothed down the
pixie-cap of hair, and slipped his
headset over it. Sherwood
watched him as he drew the
chin-strap tight. You’re a good
(Continued on page 34)


THE BOOF-HEADED BREED
By JOHN FOUNTAIN.
Darkie stone pushed
his hat over a degree and
squatted on his heels.
“You don’t get ’em
now,” he complained, picking his
teeth with a straw from the
broom, “the real boof-headed
dogs.”
“Cattle-dogs?”
“Yair.”
Silence.
“Have a chair, Mr. Stone,”
my wife said coldly. She was
becoming a little tired of our
neighbor’s nightly visits: so was
I. But, as I pointed out to her,
“you can’t be rude to him.”
“You’re right,” she said
bitterly, “you can’t.”
She was trying now, delicately
suppressing a yawn, looking at
Darkie’s boots. Not that she was
over-fussy in the house, as
women go, but Darkie’s calm
acceptance of the kitchen as an
annexe of the farmyard exasper-
ated her as Darkie’s calm accept-
ance of the work his womenfolk
did on the farm, milking and so
on, rasped her feminine pride;
or, rather, her pride in her
femininity, which is something
slightly different.
What my wife chose to over-
look was that Darkie worked
hard, too, in his way, and really
saw nothing strange in his wife
milking a half-dozen cows, be-
sides her household chores.
Darkie considered that sort of
thing light women’s work, as
unselfconsciously as any Euro-
pean peasant. The notion that
we have no peasants in Aus-
tralia is one of those quaint
beliefs fathered by politicians.
For my part, I liked Darkie
well enough, although he was a
hard man in a deal; but, then,
who wasn’t? Darkie subscribed
to the popular dealer’s philo-
sophy that you had eyes in your
head —didn’t you? Anything
you heard in the course of a
deal, apparently, was so much
incidental music.
I could understand Darkie’s
liking for a bit of masculine
society which, I supposed,
brought him over to our place.
Only he had been making it a
bit hot lately—every night—and
he stayed too long. He was one
of those nqen who can do with
very little sleep—like Napoleon.
A dark, skinny Napoleon with
a coarse black stubble.
Me, I’m no Napoleon. I
yawned.
“Take that chair by the stove,
Mr. Stone,” my wife said. “It’s
quite comfortable.” She began
banging plates around in a fury
of tidiness.
ITI7E had finished the washing-
up, and a fire still burned
low in the stove. We had a late
meal that night—l had been out
looking for a calving cow some
few miles away, and the chestnut
horse had loosened a shoe. Out-
side, the black night held the dim
patch of yellow light from our
windows in a damp grip,
smothered Jhe moon and moaned
through the pines. The sort of
night we liked to relax, listen to
the wireless, perhaps, and read
the papers, which had come in
that afternoon. Not the sort of
night one would choose to enter-
tain a neighbor as persistent as
Darkie.
“I’m jake, missus.” Darkie
glanced up, from under the
tilted hat. “Right*as rain.” He
shifted position, scraping his
nailed boots along the inlaid
linoleum. He ground the damp
tobacco between his hoof-hard
palms, his dark eyes shining in
the dancing firelight, under the
shadow of his hat. “Take that
pup of yours, Joe,” he said. “A
pretty little thing, but too light.
What did you pay for him?”
I made no reply, concentrat-
ing on rolling my cigarette. I
was for ever offering this sort of
silent resistance to Darkie’s
questions. Out of the comer of
my eye I could see his dark,
eager face, the face of a haggard
clown in need of a shave, under
that absurdly-cocked hat, and
the bearded lips twitched in a
smile. Darkie had the kind of
beard that would have been a
torment to a city man, sending
him to a barber’s twice a day,
wiry and untameable.
“Anyway,” Darkie said, a little
weirdly, as though the sensitive
antennae of his whiskers had
picked up my unspoken specula-
tions, “if you did pay too much
for him, it was better than get-
ting one of those yelping mongs
you see round here. He will
heel —got the instinct ...”
“That’s what I think,” I said
a shade too eagerly. “At least” —
warned by an expression on
Darkie’s face —“that’s why I
sent away for him. This man at
Cootamundra breeds good
heelers, they say.”
At the same time I felt uneasy
at the price I had paid for the
pup. Looked at one way, he
was a luxury I could not well
afford. On the other hand I
have always been interested in
the blue dogs. I needed a cattle-
dog. Why not buy a good one?
“Cootamundra?” Darkie said
softly. Then, as I failed to rise,
in a thoughtful, faraway voice:
“You got him at Cootamundra,
you say?”
“Yes.”
“Didn’t get him from a man
called Peters, by any chance?”
“No,” I said firmly.
It was a curious game we
played, like chess. Darkie seek-
ing information, I trying to with-
hold it, A kind of pure intellec-
tual exercise, on both sides,
I knew that if I told Darkie
the name of the breeder Darkie
would think up something
damaging about him —a bar
sinister, somewhere, in the
ancestry of his dogs. I wouldn’t
believe him, of course; still,
there would be that nasty doubt,
disturbing my complacency,
forcing me to justify my extra-
vagance, There was, too, my
wife, who held the firm opinion
that if there was money around
for the ihiportation of dogs from
distant parts like Cootamundra,
there were better ways of spend-
ing it. I had lied to her about
the price, and I often wondered
if she had looked up the cheque-
butt. I didn’t want Darkie put-
ting ideas into her head. Besides,
it was against my policy—a point
to Darkie in our subtle game—
to give him any personal
information,
TT is my experience of women
that they have little patience
with masculine deviousness.
My wife began to make a pot of
tea. It was obvious she intended
Darkie to go after the formality
of a cup of tea. It was obvious
Darkie had no intention of leav-
ing. He drank his black tea
noisily, and made himself com-
fortable on his heels. He could
sit like that for hours,
“When you say light,” I said,
accepting the inevitable, “you
mean light in color, I suppose?”
Darkie wiped his mouth with
the back of his hand. “No.
Color’s all right,” he said
grudgingly. “But he’ll be a light
biter.” He said this firmly, as
strong condemnation, but with a
touch of polite regret; as one
might unwillingly inform a
parent that his son was a
criminal, and, although person-
ally sorry, it was unfortunately
necessary to send him to jail.
My wife scoffed. “Light! I’m
glad you think so! The little
devil’s ruined all my stockings! ”
“Little beggar’s been after the
sucking - pigs,” I muttered.
“You know, those young
growers, Darkie.”
Darkie looked disgusted. He
seemed inclined to spit on the
floor, but caught my wife’s eye
and changed his mind,
“When I say bite, missus,” he
said deliberately, “I mean bite,
see, like to make a beast bleed.”
“Oh,” my wife said, “how
horrible.” She began to clear
up the teacups.
“But you don’t get ’em like
that now,” Darkie said sadly.
“Except my Bess, of course.”
“That old bitch of yours?” I
said incredulously. I had seen a
dark-blue, bony slattern at the
end of a rusted chain behind
Darkie’s feed-shed, raising her
head from the dust to snarl
feebly at a visitor, now and then.
“Not so old,” Darkie said
quickly. “She’s coming in season
again. Although, mind you, she
wouldn’t hurt a beast now.
Teeth gone on her. What a dog
she was, once, though!” He
wagged his head admiringly.
“Tear your leg off for you,” he
said fondly. “She’s the last, you
might say, of the old boof-
headed breed.”
“The what breed?”
Darkie looked at me mildly.
“The boof-headed breed. At
least, that’s what my dad called
them. They were his breed,
really—you might call ’em the
Stone breed. The Stone blue-
heelers. Only boof-headed my
dad always called them, and
boof - headed they were like
that” —he spread his two hands.
fingers apart —“across the skull
and jaws on them like a bull-
dog.”
“Your father bred these dogs
himself?”
Darkie nodded.
I was silent for a while, trying
to think of what Robert *Kaleski
had written about the evolution
of the Australian cattle-dog. As
I say, I am interested in the
subject. So far as I could
remember, the first cattle-dogs
had been the big, black, drop-
eared, rough-coated English dogs
with bob-tails and white neck-
rings and these had been
unsuitable because they were
barkers, and because they were
too heavy. They can still be
country towns. I
asked Darkie if these weren’t the
dogs he meant. He shook his
head. Nor their immediate
descendants, the red bob-tailed
dingo-cross.
Darkie had read Kaleski, too ;
or he knew a good deal about
the cattle-dog. He mentioned
“Hall’s heelers,” the cross be-
tween blue-grey “merles,” a
Scottish dog, itself sprung from
a combination of collie, grey-
hound and mastiff, with the
dingo, which were the founda-
tion stock of our cattle-dogs, and
he acknowledged their virtues.
But his dad, he said, wasn’t
satisfied. He wanted a more
powerful dog, a more severe
biter. His dad, at that time,
was doing a lot of droving, and
some of the lively Queensland
and Territory cattle he encoun-
tered took some handling, Darkie
said.
I had always thought the Aus-
tralian cattle-dog ideal for our
conditions, and said so. There
seemed something arrogant in
trying to improve it.
W 6 Y OU can i m P rove an Y‘
thing,” Darkie said
simply: and I was silenced,
“Although, mind you, it’s a
fluke, mostly, when you do.
Although my dad was a
wonde/ful man with dogs, could
just look at a pup and know
how he’d turn out, look at a
dog, and know he wanted that
cross. Like when he was going
through this town in Victoria
and saw the publican’s bulldog,
sitting out on the front step in
the sun, as though he owned a
brewery. He knew then, as soon
as he looked at him, that he
wanted a pup by that dog out
of his bitch, Belle.”
“A bulldog cross?” I said.
“That’s been tried.”
It had been tried. All sorts
of queer crosses, in the old days,
had been tried and given up.
Kangaroo-bulldog; bull-terrier
and rough-haired terrier. I
wasn’t sure, but I had an idea
that a Dalmatian outcross had
been used once, in the evolution
of the modern cattle-dog, to fix
the color and to give the dog that
familiarity with horses which is
part of the make-up of both
Dalmatians and cattle-dogs, and,
again, a bull-terrier cross had
been used. Which would place
the bulldog in the cattle-dog’s
family-tree somewhere, at a good
distance, and which might
account for the dog’s pugnacity.
“Wait a bit, though,” Darkie
said. “It was ,a good bit back.
Let me tell you. As I say, Dad
was going through this town,
when he saw this bulldog, a big
white fellow with a chest like a
battleship. He had his bitch
Belle with him —no ; I’m telling
a lie, it wasn’t Belle, it was Nellie,
a dark-blue bitch like my Bess,
only finer. Belle was her
daughter.”
“So he mated them, eh?”
“He couldn’t. Nellie wasn’t
in season. When she did come
on, two months later, Dad was
fifty miles away, on another job.
He left the cattle with Jack —
that’s my brother, him that’s in
Melbourne now —put Nellie
across his saddle and rode all
night, with half the dogs on the
Upper Murray escorting him.
You can imagine how Nellie
squirmed and wriggled—a big
lump of a bitch like her. He
knocked the publican up at day-
break, he agreed, and they
locked them up in a loose-box
at the back of the pub.”
Darkie sat for a while, lost in
thought. I put another piece of
wood in the stove —a big, solid
log that I had to force in, one
that would burn slowly. My
wife had gone to bed.
“He was an old dog, that bull-
dog, although a strong one, my
Dad said. I never saw him.
But Dad said he never saw a dog
like him —make two of any bull-
dog you ever saw. And broader
than he was long. He died soon
after that —went for a train and
was knocked rotten. But that’s
the sort of dog he was.”
■ There was a moment’s
respectful silence.
“Dad was near Bourke, when
Nellie had pups, with sheep.
She was no good to him on that
trip, of course, he just brought
her along to keep his eye on her.
Jack was still with him —I was
only a nipper—and it was
Christmas Eve. . They were all
having a drink, about midnight,
in one of those little bush pubs,
when Dad put his glass down,
with a funny look on his face.
Jack says. ‘Come on, boy,’ he
says, and goes straight back to
camp, leaving all the singing and
merry-making behind.”
“Was everything all right?” I
asked.
o Continued on page 27)


sac
'tm
iff
mm
m
///
7//
Uf
YOUR
TAI LOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
BVusaber
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 11.3
1
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high qua lity
watches in the
Lavina
w
Ladies*
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
priced from
only £l4/15/-.
cp
m'-i
/ v
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
★
Every LAYINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and o
17-jewelled movement.
LA VENA
WATCHES
3L
x6UC
mtC
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy books by Rev. A. K. H.
Boyd, author of The Recreations of
a Country Parson. —s7os.
Chinese schoolboy (17), studying
at Hong Kong English college, in-
terested in photography, stamps,
travelling, magazines, movies, would
like to correspond with young
Bulletin readers. (Reply direct to
Shin-Keen Ng, Ist Floor, 23 Mosque
Junction, Hong Kong.)
Vocal score of Donizetti’s
“L’Elisir d’Amore,” Italian or Eng-
lish translation, or Italian alone.
—5686.
Middle-aged man, Sydney, wants
position as clerk.—5701.
To rent furnished flat or cottage,
Sydney. Must be permanent rental.
—5700.
To buy copies of “The Lone
Hand” magazine prior to 1914.
—5699.
Does Anybody Know?
Any particulars about a Frederick
Richardson who published a book
called Poems in Melbourne in 1903.
—5704.
Name and address of a Sydney
firm who would make a propeller
for an outboard-motor that would
enable a boat to travel in weed-
infested waters. —5688.
Meaning of Ynoo, a South Aus-
tralian aboriginal place-name. —5695.
Date of the death of Charles
White, author of Convict Life, His-
tory of Australian Bushranging, etc.
—5703.
Information Sought
Most reliable method of striking
carnations ?
Carnations can be struck from
pieces of limbs, which have flowered,
but layering is preferable. Place boxes
of soil around the plants and bend
the limbs, breaking or slitting them
where they enter the soil. A hairpin
or piece of wire should be placed
over the bent portion to keep it
under. When the plant has struck
(in about six weeks) sever the limb
from the parent plant, remove the
box and set others in their place.
« * * «
How to prepare a brine for salting
meat, and what time is needed for
salting ?
Boil together three gallons of water,
61b. salt, 21b. sugar and Boz. salt-
petre; halve the quantities for a small
mixture. Boil at least 30 minutes, stir
occasionally, and skim well. Strain
into a wooden tub, and let stand until
cold, when it is ready for use. A
fortnight is the average time for
pickling a piece of meat, a longer or
shorter time for extra large or small
pieces. After the brine has been
used for some time it weakens, and
must be restored by reboiling with
addition of all the ingredients in pro-
portion.
♦ * * •
How did Toowong (Q.) get its
name ?
It is an aboriginal name, and there
is a popular belief that in the lan-
guage of the local blackfellows it
signified “rich place.” That seems
doubtful, The locality was called
Toowong, or rather Tuwong, before
the arrival of the white man who
came with Oxley in 1824, the name
being an imitation of the sonorous
note of the male Flinders cuckoo,
which frequented the scrub at the
foot of the Toowong Creek.
* * * •
Was a law ever passed in England
against the use of cosmetics? If so,
can you give me a brief outline
of it ?
Yes, in 1770. The Act stipulated:
“That all women of whatever age,
rank, profession or degree, whether
virgin-maid or widow, that shall from
and after such Act impose upon,
seduce and betray into matrimony
any of his Majesty’s subjects by
means of scents, paints, cosmetic
washes, artificial teeth, false hair,
Spanish wool, iron stays, hoops,
high-heeled shoes or bolstered hips
shall incur the penalty of the law
now in force against witchcraft and
like misdemeanors, and that the
marriage, upon conviction, shall
stand null and void.”
♦ » ♦ *
CO Some information on Vincent
Van Gogh? (2) Does he rank as a
great artist? (3) Is Irving Stone’s
novel “Lust for Life’ 1 ’ an accurate
account of his life?
(1) Born in 1853, son of a Dutch
clergyman, he tried his hand at
several jobs before deciding (in
1880) to devote himself to paint-
ing, In 1884 he joined the Ant-
werp Academy, and in 1886 set-
tled in Paris, where his brother
Theo was a director of a picture-
gallery. There Van Gogh came
closely in touch with the Impres-
sionists and their work, but,
though he is often thought of as
one of that school, he is more
properly of the Post-Impressionists.
He later lived at St. Rimy and
Arles, at both of which places he
did a lot of painting. He then began
to suffer from attacks of insanity,
alternated with periods of lucidity,
and finally, on July 27, 1890, he shot
himself. Some of his best-known
paintings are “Sunflowers,” “The
Yellow Chair,” “Cypress,” “Potato
Eaters” (which he considered so im-
portant he painted it over and over),
“The Cornfield,” “Postman Roulin”
and “Bouquet of Flowers.” He
painted still-life, portraits and land-
scapes. (2) Modernists and their
followers acclaim him as a genius
great and unique—“from his earliest,
naive and clumsy drawings right up
to the supreme manifestations of his
genius” (Paul Fierens).: His own
ideal was to paint “something peace-
ful, agreeable and realistic, yet
painted with emotion; something
fresh, full of soul and idea, some-
thing more real than the real; some-
thing terse, simplified and concen-
trated, full of calm and pure har-
mony, as consoling as a piece of
music.” Whether or not he suc-
ceeded in this aim, his final evalua-
tion will have to be left to a later
age. (3) Yes, it follows his life
closely.
♦ ♦ * ♦
(1) How to remove old putty? (2)
Oil paint ?
(1) Paint it with nitric or hydro-
chloric acid, and after about an hour
it will be soft enough to remove. A
hot iron will soften it at once. (2)
21b. washing soda, £lb. quicklime,
mixed to the consistence of cream,
spread on, and kept moist for an
hour. The paint can then be washed
off.
Brief Answers
D.P.: Write United States In-
formation Service, 46-48 Margaret-
street, Sydney....C.C.: Barbara
Baynton was born on June 4, 1862,
and died on May 28, 1929....
R. : Geoffrey Cumine, the
poet, died nearly a year ago. There
was an obituary paragraph in The
Bulletin of February 25, 1953....
S. The story “The Three Jolly
Foxes” was written by Douglas
Stewart and will be found in the
anthology Australian Short Stories,
selected by Walter Murdoch and
Henrietta Drake Brockman, pub- •
lished by the Oxford University Press
in 1951....A.L.: The lines are from
Harry Morant’s (“The Breaker”)
poem “The Brigalow Brigade,” and
will be found in Frank Fox’s Bush-
man and Buccaneer, available at the
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney.
... .P.F.; The poem “Jack the Nark”
was written by Gordon Bennett. It
appears in The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse and Recitations,
published by the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Sydney, in 1920... .R.H.K.:
You are quite correct —Ketelbey com-
posed “In a Persian Market.” Liza
Lehmann composed “In a Persian
Garden” J.E.: The Hon. Colonel
Allan S. Walker, A.A.M.C.R., who
was commissioned to write the four
medical volumes of the official war-
history, Australia in the War of
1939-45, two of which have so far
been published, was a teacher and
physician before the war, served in
the war as senior physician in the
2/Ist A.G.H. in Palestine, in the
Base Hospital at Concord and as a
consulting physician to the Austra-
lian Army W.G.: Trustees of the
Steele Rudd Memorial Fund are
R. S. Byrnes, 10 Power-street, Nor-
man Park, Brisbane; and N. K.
Harvey, 6 Gladstone-road, South
Brisbane B.McN.: Write Queens-
land Authors and Artists’ Associa-
tion, Box 1871 W, G.P.0., Brisbane.
J.G.; “The Great Australian
Adjective,” by W. T. Goodge, ap-
peared originally in The Bulletin
and, later, in his book Hits! Skits!
and Jinglesl published in 1899....
N.S.M.: See Bibliography of Queens-
land Verse with Biographical Notes.
by J. H. Hornibrook, published by
the Government Printer, Brisbane
R m.B. : Edward Harrington’s poem
“Cats on the Roof” was illustrated
by Scorfield and appeared in The
Bulletin of December 12, 1934....
RB : See Towards an Australian
Drama, by Leslie Rees, published
by Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
in 1953 F.W.W.: “British Book
News” is published for the British
Council by the National Book
League, 7 Albemarle-street, London.
C.R.B.: The word “posh
originated among Anglo-Indians
travelling to and from England on
furlough. The best positions for
cabins on the tropical runs were
port-side outward, and starboard-
side home —p.o.s.h. A “posh” cabin
was one which fulfilled the above
conditions, and the term was used
generally to express superlative merit.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEWIS ELYIN DAVIS.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET MARY DAVIS
has filed Petition No. 4476 of 1953 for
Divorce on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty and leaving with-
out means of support for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry King Street Sydney by the 2nd
April 1964 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
ROBERT RICHARDSON, who emigrated
to Australia from England in the year
1913 and whose last address in England
was 86 Ooomer Road, Fulham, London,
5.W.6 (or his issue), is requested to
communicate with WM. J. CLARKE &
CO., Temple Court, 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Great Game, Shearing
Wool Away!
By BILL HOWARD
IT is just after lunch on a
bunday in a West Queensland
shearmg-shed. Through the
gauzed dining-room door the
sun blazes whitely on the
claypan outside. Inside it is
cool; the big kerosene-refriger-
ator mßkes its little noises ; as he
washes up, the cheerful shearers’
cook sings, accompanying his
portable radio. The shearers, full
ot salads and jelly and ice-cream.
ave gone to their quiet, lined,
wo-bed rooms for their beaut
un ay-arvo camp-up.
Only old Darky Beamer re-
mains, savoring the pleasure of
not having to go to the shed,
He’d had' a big rum before lunch
and is full of it andean old man’s
loquacity. '
.“You’ve seen some changes in
this industry. Darky, in the years
you’ve been in it?”
“I sure have, boy. It’s fifty
years ago this year since I took
a learner’s pen at Bowen Downs,
I was a dark, curly-haired young
lair of nineteen then , . . anyway,
I’m stiff a lair. I shore a hun-
dred later that year and married
a pretty sheila I’d met in Rocky,
I’ve shorn in hundreds of sheds
and with thousands of shearers,
Nearly all dead now. There’s
been over a million woolly sheep
been through these dooks. And
that’s a lot of belly-wools to
take off. Ive never been a real
Greadnought [an out-and-out
cnamp.J, only a bit of a, gun.
But 1 could get me average in any
te^J n s '
“I’ve spent fifty years in the
back country, boy, and all I’ve
got out of it is a weatherboard
cottage, lopsided shoulders and
a few hundred in the bank.
“This is my last season in the
scrub, boy. Dinkum it is. I’ve
hadit! Me old woman... she’s
a little old lady now, and been a
good cobber for fifty years...
she’s had it, too! We’ve been
saying good-bye for fifty years,
and she s always cried a bit as
p. pulls out at Central.
But this year she really turned
it on. Dunno why Perhaps it's
because It's our golden-weddmg
»a ' , T
Anyway _ this time when I
headed north she cried enough
to put the Paroo in flood Yeah,
boy, it really is my last season
n the tube [m the shearing
game], I m too old. The sheep
are getting too big and rough,
and Iye promised Mum. 11l just
get this run in on the big dough
and then give it away for ail
bme-
JWW’c
k t Y hP d “wShi” (ShMrina
, the , , b ° gghl (shearing-
Mth twS
At the cut-out of the last shed of
th
approach the young learner and
hand over his combs and cutters
and shearing moccasins. Some-
one would say:
• rww*
SS
us £eS I yla[ >arky
oacK wiui us neAi year . .
b y ’w r Q 1 Fwf tfkeT
th arky 5
those combs and cutters, will y,
and those moccasins.
-T +
The combs and cutters would
be seen to be so wafer-thin that
the expert couldn’t grind them,
let alone anyone shear a sheep
tyith them, and the moccasins so
decrepit and patched-up as not
to be worth port-space for the
trek south home.
Next year Darky’s wife would
recognise the symptoms. After
sqi these years she should. Darky
would become a little cranky
and restless, and one day he’d
head into Sydney and perhaps
meet some of the boys down at
the Morris and over some
schooners get all stirred up by
the interminable shed talk.
Meanwhile, Mum would sur-
start reinforcing his
shearing grousers, and they’d be
all ready for the day when
Darky would come home and tell
her: “Mum, I’ve been offered a
beaut run of sheds out at the
’Reach. ' There’s 12,000 sheep
a man at it. Start today week,
The boys are catching the train
day after tomorrow. I told ’em,
of course, I wouldn’t be in it.
Not me!”
Darky, o£ course* had already
signed on, 'Without answering,
Mum would go to Darky’s port
and silently produce the shear-
ing-pants and the bottle of o.p.
for the track she always shouted
out of the housekeeping.
What changes Darky had seen
in the bush and the pastoral in-
dustry since he first crossed the
Barcoo fifty years ago ! He’d
often talk of the accommodation
in those tough old days. There
were no lined two-bed rooms in
those days, with mattresses and
covers and pillowslips provided,
No separate dining-rooms with
decent plates and cutlery and
Tilley-lanips.
j n those days the dining-room
was also the bunkhouse—wooden
board bunks fo’c’sle-like one
on top of each other. There
would be the stench of unwashed
“greasies” (shearers’ working
clothes) and of the home-made
slush-lanlps. The total lack of
privacy, with the inevitable
drunk trying to wean himself
°ff the grog and half in the yell-
ing horrors, There’d be the
plaintive wail of the mouthorgan
of a home-sick boy . . .
-4- -f"
« No f orty -hour week then
™ 1 ° ioriy nour wees. men.
™ey
“ 7 o£e £*and
-hunk of brownie in the other,
ready to start work at six o’clock.
No ru teU you » Darky
would tell the younger she arers,
.< shearing big sheep on an empty
gut | j ong weekends then to
camp . up j n> You’d shear till
four-o’clock Saturday afternoon,
p oU nd-a-hundred in those days
—jf y ou were lucky,’cause some
b i ankard 0 f an owner’d be likely
to raddle ’em of y’,”
In those days the grazier
could §° into *e counting-out
a ° d what sheep he con .
sidered inadequately or poorly
shorn he’d put a raddle-mark on
lbem W u en the boss of the
board couhted out he would de-
duct the raddled s h eep from the
sbearer » s tally.
shearer liked this of
No shearer meed tms, or
course, and if they resented it
leave was t 0 “ cut theo » selyra out
, it ,» ff orc i n a the sack on
themselves) by cutting the sheep
excessively or shearing .a lot of
second . cu t s Until finally the
boss of the bQard would come
and tell the shearer:
“You can hang up after you
finish that one, Beamer. I’ll
write it out for you and you can
roll it [the swag] and get on the
track before Mr. Big Acres sools
the dogs on you.”
Fifty years later, however, a
leading pastoral journal pub-
fished a serious article on how to
“chip” a shparer. without antag-
onising him. : You should wait
till the sheerer finishes a good,
fast sheep, and when he comes
into the catching-pen to get an-
other yoti should tell him what
he’s doing wrong. Don’t bend
over while he’s shearing and chip
him; the sheep may be struggling
and he’ll be cranky and may
flare-up and tell you to stick
your lousy sheep and pull out
and be shearing again some-
where else next day. The article
was a little more academic than
that, of course.
Things are getting a little more
normal nowadays. There isn’t
such a shortage of shearers. In
the last couple of years any
man who has ever handled a
bogghi is back in the game again,
attracted by the quick, big dough,
and on the Monaro and around
New England shearers have been
seen in recent years going into
the pubs on Saturday mornings
searching for the cockies instead
of previously the cockies going
into the pubs searching for them!
The shearer-man has re-
sponded to the more civilised
living conditions and is most
punctilious about personal clean-
liness. Many men wash their
greasies every night and go to
work every morning in a fresh
outfit. They boil-up their sheets
and linen every Saturday with
domestic regularity—and carry
blue and pegs!
There has been a revolution in
transport, too. The old pushbike
and horse days are as extinct as
the blade-shearing sheds. Most
shearers own cars —from flash
sedans to old “bombs.” Many,
too, use Butler Airways to get to
the sheds, maintaining it is more
economical and that they arrive
fresh. -
It is only in recent years that
the clause “no bull camels
allowed on property,” and an-
other that a paddock must be
provided for the shearers’ horses,
have been deleted from the
shearers’ agreement.
Perhaps all these changes have
removed a great deal of the color
from the shearing game. For
instance, the “stand-out” of
cooks. Up till about twenty-five
years ago the “babbling-brook”
was employed by the shearers.
The day before the shed started,
all men would assemble, and
there’d be a roll-call by the boss
of the board. After that the cook
would be selected.
The cooks would “stand-out”
in the paddock, and the shearers
would stand behind the cook
they favored. The cook with the
most men standing behind him
got the job. Intense lobbying
went on before the “stand-out,”
each cook, with bottle of rum,
pannikin and water-bag, calling
men aside and shouting a drink
and whispering a plea.
Two “gun”-cooks of great
prowess, recognising each other’s
chances, would “save” —that is,
the man who won the “stand-
out” would pay the travelling ex-
penses of the other. A “gun”-
cook, however, wouldn’t save
with “just a cook.”
In those days in the big sheds
there were two messes, one for
the shearers and one for the
rouseabouts. The rousies’ cook
was employed by the owner (as
the rousies were “kept”), and was
often selected, not for his
culinary efforts, but for his ability
to bring out cheap messes.
The cook these days is em-
ployed by the shearing con-
tractor * and the “stand-out”
abolished. However, the shearer
still retains the right to “track”
(sack) the cook.
Spectacular big gambling, too,
in shearing-sheds, except in the
few big sheds remaining, is
seldom seen. In the big Western
Queensland sheds the gambling
concession, or the “right to run
the game,” is auctioned by the
shearers’ representative on the
night before the shed “kicks off.”
I have often seen a hundred
pounds bid by a syndicate of,
say, three shearers for the
“game,” This money goes to the
local ambulance or bush-hospital.
The winning syndicate is “punt-
ing” on the team being a team
of gamblers. It’s a mistake to
buy the game in the first shed of
the year. Everyone is broke.
The men who run the game
have prepared well. They bring
out from town a couple of hun-
dred pounds in silver and dozens
of packs of cards, two-up
pennies, heads - and - tail and
hazards dice. On Saturdays and
Sundays they run the two-up
game outside in the paddock. As
soon as the sun goes down they
move inside and by lamplight
play dice. There may also be a
couple of poker games in pro-
gress.
+ +
The ringkeeper gets a couple
of bob an hour from the poker-
players and two shillings in the £
“sling” from winning bets in the
“swy” and hazards, etc. The
“ringkeeper” controls a ledger
and issues credit for a week’s
earnings, but the gamesters are
limited in their losses. Shearers
are allowed to lose twice as much
as the rousies. Cheques are
drawn from the boss of the
board on Fridays and a settling-
up takes place. It is a tradition
that, if a man loses all his wages,
the “ringy” at the cut-out gives
him enough for travelling
expenses to the next shed!
On Saturday nights sometimes
the poker game goes on all night
and is only broken up by the
irate cook, who hunts them away
from the dining-room table when
he wants to get breakfast. The
men stagger to their bunks, pay-
ing someone broke to wash their
greasies while they sleep. Next
weekend they may be broke and
doing the washing themselves!
One seldom sees a shearer on
the traditional drunken spree of
the Lawsonian era —now, when
they hit the town at the cut-out
of a shed with a big shearing-
cheque in the kick, the first
building they enter is the
savings-bank, not the pub. They
are not members of Alcoholics
Anonymous, of course, and keep
a few bob out for beer, but the
epic, protracted “tell-me-when-
it’s - cut - out-Mrs.-Publichouse”
binges are a thing of the past.
They value their money and
shearing efficiency too much.
There is still a clause in the
agreement the shearer signs that
no grog will be brought on to
the station. There is even a
fifty-pound fine. This is not en-
forced now, and most shearers
slug themselves with a rum after
work. I assure you they have
earned it, and the last run in the
day is called the “rum run.”
The origin of that clause was
that in the old, big-station days
many of the musterers and
boundary-riders were men who
couldn’t pass a pub, and who’d
be sweating it out, out of danger,
a hundred miles from the nearest
shanty. Every year for years
they would draw their accumu-
lated wages determined to get
to Brisbane to see their people.
But at the first wayside f>ub they
reached, and the first drink, that
is as far as they would get.
The clause, then, was to pro-
tect them from a stray, preferred
drink from someone in the shed.
One drink would be enough to
send them riding off to the
nearest town, and this would be
very awkward at shearing-time,
as the station relied on these
men, with their knowledge of the
enormous hundred-thousand-acre
paddocks, to get the sheep into
the shed.
On the shearing-board the
shearer wears the same working
clothes as of fifty years ago —
dungarees and Jacky Howe
flannel-shirts. But out of the
shed he is smartly dressed and
indistinguishable sartorially from
any other citizen.
There is one way, however,
that a shearer cannot disguise his
profession—by the enormously
puffed knuckles on his left hand.
Every professional shearer has
this physical distinction, and it
never goes away. It is caused by
the shearer pressing hard into
the skin of the sheep to hold the
sheep in position.
It’s amusing to sit in a cafd
and perhaps hear a young tooth-
brush mustachioed Savile Row-
like character with puffed
knuckles shooting a line to a
good sort about his property in
the back country. ..You feel like
crying, “Tar boy!” or “Sheep-
oh!” but, looking at those for-
midable shoulders, you just aren’t
game enough!
Mind you, there is no social
stigmata in being a shearer. Any
man who can earn a tenner a day
isn’t doing badly. But the game
is not as good as it sounds.
Travelling expenses are heavy,
combs and cutters very dear,
there is loss of time with wet
weather and between sheds, and
it’s always “open season” for
shearers among predatory pub-
licans and storekeepers.
It’s hard work, too —much
harder than it looks —and there’s
a mental strain with kicking
sheep and the infectious com-
petitive piece-work system. The
shearer gets such a bustle up that
he just cannot stop. He can eat
a gargantuan midday meal and
be back at the shed before the
rousies have cleaned up.
Many a shearer has a bad
tummy, and the table near his
bunk resembles a chemist’s shop
with its rows of patent medicines.
He is often quite a sucker for
advertisements. Have you an
aching back? Send £l, Box No.
so-and-so. After shearing, say,
120 big, recalcitrant wethers,
eight hours of head down and
tail up, who would not have an
aching back? He still sends that
quid away!
+ 4-
In many ways today’s shearers
are the same as the boys of fifty
years ago. In the shearing-shed
around the fire at night the
present one will boast, “Re-
member that beaut blonde bar-
maid who went for me in a big
way last time we were in town?
When I hit town I’m going to
take her 0ut....” But in town
after the cut-out, weeks later,
and drinking beer in the pub, it’s
then they re-shear the shed all
over again: who was in front,
who were good pen-mates, and
so on, until some rouseabout,
tired of all this sheep talk, kicks
at an imaginary fleece lying on
the floor, and yells “Wool away
there, you greasy bloody
shearers, fair go!” The beaut
blonde barmaid is forgotten.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
Topliners among Australia’s
four-year-olds and upwards re-
turned to racing last weekend,
and the Royal visitors will see
the best gallopers of this country
in action in the immediate
future. It was pleasing to note
the quick return to winning form
of Carioca in Sydney and of
Most Regal and Cromis in Mel-
bourne. Others indicating an
early return to best condition and
winning-form were Hydrogen
and Gallant Archer at Rosehill,
and My Hero and Melbourne
Cup winner Wodalla at Caul-
field. Some of these may fight
out the finish of the rich Queen
Elizabeth Stakes (£10,500) in
both Sydney and Melbourne.
The Queen will present the £5OO
trophies to the successful owners.
Carioca’s 9.13 in the A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap, to be
run at Randwick next Monday,
won’t stop him winning; if he
does win he’ll set a weight-carry-
ing record for this long-estab-
lished summer handicap, which
this year will be decided at a
mile and a quarter instead of the
customary 12 furlongs. The
change was made by the A.J.C.
to fit in easier as a lead-up to
the Queen Elizabeth Stakes (12
furlongs) on the following
Saturday.
Carioca is a firm favorite for
the Anniversary Handicap, fol-
lowed by Advocate, Gallant
Archer, Hydrogen, Dark Fife
and Regal Glitter. In the ab-
sence of Carioca, Advocate is
selected to win from Regal
Glitter and Bon Rouge.
If Raconteur contests the
Challenge Stakes at Randwick
this Saturday he will be assured
of favoritism because of his
recent top-class form. In
Raconteur’s absence Karendi
or Tarien could advance to top
line of betting.
Karendi is selected to win
the Challenge from True
Leader and Regoli.
• • • •
True Leader, a strong con-
tender for the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes (6 furlongs), won this
event two years ago in the fast
time of I.lo*, which rarely has
been equalled or beaten. In
fact, the race-record is I.lo*,
made by The Marne in 1935 and
equalled by that smart sprinter
San Domenico in 1950. Air
Queen ran I.lo* in 1934, so
there were some smart gallopers
in the period about 20 years ago.
Average time for the Challenge
is 1.11, but with several fast
horses engaged at RandwSck
next Saturday a new Challenge-
record could be made.
When Civic Pride was racing
in Sydney about 10 years ago
she could run five furlongs
round about the minute, and
had few equals for speed.
Among other races, she won
the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes.
Her son, Pride of Egypt, by
Nilo (imp,), apparently has in-
herited her brilliance, because
at his first race appearance —
in the Rosehill Two-year-old
Handicap —he won easily,
despite the fact that his jockey
had some difficulty. The colt’s
bridle broke soon after the
start and Pride of Egypt ran
very wide at the top of the
straight. Even so, he simply
strolled in. Raced by E. R. Wil-
liams, who later in the day saw
his idol, Hydrogen, downed by
Carioca, Pride of Egypt cost
2200 guineas as a yearling, and
will win in better company.
Carioca was too solid for
Hydrogen, and had him beaten
some distance from the winning-
post. For some reason best
known to themselves, book-
makers took a decided last-
minute set against Carioca, who
in parts of the ring touched
2 to 1, after both horses had
opened at even money.
Hydrogen went to 5 to 4 on,
while Carioca was quoted at
7 to 4. Cook rode a typical race
on the winner, whose stake-
earnings now total £29,888 for
16 wins from 28 starts.
Hydrogen’s share of the prize-
money, £3OO, advanced his total
earnings to £57,479.
• • • •
The Maurice McCarten-
trained Culzean hasn’t won a
race since April of last year,
but he has cost followers a lot
of money in the meantime. At
his last three outings, for two
seconds and a sixth (at Rosehill
on Saturday), he started at 5 to
1, 5 to 4 and even-money
favorite respectively, so book-
makers have found him a most
profitable animal. He has
proved little more than a boom
horse.
Four-year-old imported horse
Sunny Hour hadn’t won a race
until he landed the First Parra-
matta Stakes at Rosehill at 12
to 1 last Saturday, and Colly
Step, 50-to-l winner of the
Auburn Stakes, had scored in
a couple of minor provincial
events only—yet three Rosehill
patrons of the doubles’ tote
each collected £1194 13s. 3d. for
a ss. investment.
* > • •
Having his first start since his
narrow defeat by Prince Morvi
in the Victoria Derby on Octo-
ber 31, Cromis had an easy win
in the First Barton Handicap at
Caulfield on Saturday, indicate
ing fitness for the all-important
Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
Flemington, his chief autumn
mission. Melbournites are look-
ing to this three-year-old son
of Helios (imp.) and Janeo as
the likely highlight of Victoria’s
autumn campaign. Time for the
seven furlongs, 1.25, was one
second outside Caulfield’s
record held jointly by those
former brilliant gallopers, Ajax
and Attley. Before he competes
in the Queen Elizabeth Stakes
Cromis may contest the mile
C. F. Orr Stakes (Feb. 6) and
the nine-furlongs St. George
Stakes at Caulfield the follow-
ing week, both run at weight-
for-age.
New Zealand thoroughbred-
breeders and the selling-agents
were thoroughly satisfied with
the record average of 616gns.
over the two days of the year-
ling sales, when 255 youngsters
were purchased for 157,285gn5.
Previous best average was
607gns. (Randwick’s average last
Easter was 541gns,, but that sale
extended over four days.) Aus-
tralian interests secured 53 lots
for 51,615gn5. Australians who
attended the sales were im-
pressed by the appearance of the
progeny of most of the English
sires represented for the first
time.
Foxzami’s yearling half-
brother, bred at the Trelawny
Stud (N.Z.), may do his racing
in Brisbane, as he was pur-
chased for 2000gns. at the
Dominion sales by Queensland
bidder, G. Ferguson. The colt
is by Khorassan (imp.) from
Honeywood (dam of Foxzami)
by Foxbridge (imp.). Randwick
trainer Frank Dalton secured a
number of youngsters for Syd-
ney owners, and for one of them
—the colt by Gold Nib (imp.)
from Egyptian Rose by Iliad
(imp.)—paid 2400gns. Shannon
appears in this colt’s pedigree.
Adelaide owner N. Moriarty
went to 2750gns. for the Bal-
loch (imp.)-Bonny Defoe colt.
Bonny Defoe is closely related
to Defaulter.
Top prices of the N.Z. sales
(colt and filly) were paid for the
progeny of Timanova (imp.);
these were bred at Koatanui stud,
Wanganui, the property of
G. M. Currie, one of the best-
known studmasters in the
Dominion. The son of Timan-
ova and Screen (by Spiral) topped
the sale at 2800gns., the bid of
C. C. McCarthy, Dalray’s men-
tor, while the filly from Affinity
“I just threw an old coathanger away—and then
everything went black.”
(also by Spiral) realised 1600gns.,
best price for a filly. She was
bought by J, C. Fletcher, of
Alton Todge stud, Te Kauwhata.
Timanova, winner of four races
in England, sired Idaho, winner
of the current season’s N.Z.
Derby, as well as the winners
of several other races in the
Dominion. The English sire is
by Casanova from Timadora by
Tetratema.
American owners Mr, and
Mrs. J. De Bois Wack, who were
in Sydney in the spring of 1952
and won the A.J.C. Derby with
Deep River, purchased at the
N.Z. sales the Gabador (Fr.) Gay
Star filly for 1300gns. The
youngster is from a half-sister
to Qay Revel (an N.Z. win-
ner), and is closely related to
Nizam’s Ring, V.R.C. Oaks
winner. Gabador was repre-
sented for the first time, and
his keenly-sought progeny rea-
lised good prices, some well
over the lOOOgns. mark. He
has an interesting pedigree—
by Djebel or Pharis (French
Derby and unbeaten in races,
as well as being champion
French sire in 1944 and 1952)
from Adargatis (French Oaks
and dam of Ardan, winner of
16 races in France, including
the Derby) by Asterus. Gaba-
dor raced once only, in Marcel
Boussac’s colors, winning a
mile-and-a-quarter event. Ardan
was sold to U.S.A. stud in-
terests for 400,000 dollars. Some
Gabadors will race next season
in Australia.
This season’s returns from
Kia-Ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
show that, in addition to the
usual batch of class fillies, 34
colts were dropped, the progeny
of the stud’s imported stallions.
The foals are making excellent
progress and all going well they
will be submitted at the 1955
autumn sales in Sydney.
Names of most of the Kia-
Ora dams are familiar to racing
folk. Idle Words, dam of Shan-
non and other class performers,
had a filly by Delville Wood,
while Agincourt (imp.) sired a
colt from Gay Colleen, and
Hunting Song (imp.) dropped a
colt-foal to Genetout (imp.).
Hunting Song was purchased by
Kia - Ora’s director - manager,
Norman Wheeler, last year
while she was in foal to Gene-
tout. The mare is by Big Game
from Choral (dam of her
Majesty the Queen’s Choir Boy).
Kia-Ora sire Delville Wood
(imp.) had colt-foals from Mur-
mur (sister to Shannon), Rosa
Fe, Phoebe, Sweet Sound, Best
Wishes, Tasty, Verity, Miss
Manna, Chapel, My Caravan
and Damsel. Midstream (imp.),
second in sire-importance at
Kia-Ora, had colt-foals from
Blue Sox, Gazza (dam of Delta
and of Deep River), Vulpura,
Cannelle, Defame, Erin go
bragh—a New Zealand bred
mare by Ruthless (imp.) from
Duvach (dam of Melbourne Cup
winner Hiraji)—Heyday, Manin-
are, Amazonian (imp.) and
Palm Beach. Brimstone (imp.)
had nine colt-foals —from Tady
Saunders, Farmington (imp.),
Matchless, High Class, Sidonia
(imp.), So Sweet, Vivian, Silver
Damsel and Follies. Channel
Swell (imp.) had colts from
Bethune and Jean Marie.
* * *
Jon Henricks, Australian
110yds. and 220yds. freestyle
champion, bettered two of his
own Australian-record times in
winning the sprints in the N.S.W.
swimming championships at
Sydney’s Olympic Pool. He won
the 220 in 2min. 9sec., the
previous best being 2min. 9.Bsec.,
held jointly by himself and
Frenchman Alex Jany, who was
here last year.
In the 110 Henricks clocked
57.15ec., one-tenth of-a second
better. The 57.1 equalled the time
which won the 100 metres (which
is slightly shorter distance than
110yds.) at the last Olympic
Games.
Several records toppled during
the championships. Country
boys did some of the toppling.
One was 18-year-old Terry
Gathercole, who came down
from West Wyalong to show the
local boys the way home in the
220yds. breaststroke. His time
(2min. 55.65ec.) was the best-yet
in Australia.
Gary Chapman, like Henricks,
set two new Australian times.
He won the 220yds. junior free-
style faster than has been done
so far (Murray Rose, who came
second, also broke the record;
Chapman and Rose are both 15).
Chapman’s other record was
in the 440yds. freestyle. He
also won the junior 440yds.
freestyle, setting exactly the
same time as in the senior event
(4min. 42.55ec.). Yet another
15-year-old, Murray Garretty,
won the senior 1650yds. freestyle.
♦ * *
Queensland this year won the
Tinton Cup, symbol of Aus-
tralian junior tennis supremacy,
from Victoria, last year’s
winners. The four who played
out the final —Roy Emerson and
Mai Anderson, of Queensland,
and Ashley Cooper and John
Fraser (Victoria) —are probably
the best junior players in the
world. It is tipped that two of
the four may be in the Australian
team to go abroad this year.
♦ * ♦
John Tandy’s crack at running
the mile in 4min. at Melbourne’s
Olympic Park failed by 2.45ec.,
and among the alibis put up by
the writers who saw it the
only one worth considering
is the lack of a pacer. By the
third lap Tandy was 50yds. clear,
and he had opened a 70yds. gap
coming round the last bend. His
4min. 2.4 secs. was two-fifths of
a second slower than his own
Australian record and a second
slower than Swedish Gundar
Haag’s world record. About
20,000 watched the effort, and
their roars of applause prevented
Tandy from hearing his sectional
times, which could have been the
reason why he’d have had to run
the last 440 in 57,9 to achieve his
aim.
* * *
Hassett’s is the third testi-
monial since 1945. The other
two were Bradman’s in Mel-
bourne in December, 1948, and
Kippax and Oldfield’s in Sydney
a couple of months later. As
well, a Shield game, S.A. v. Vic-
toria in March, 1949, was
appointed a benefit for A. J.
Richardson, the S.A. and Test
all-rounder of the 1920’5.
• • • •
The A. J. Richardson game
was Bradman’s farewell to big
cricket. It wasn’t a very suc-
cessful match for S’ Don (and
consequently not as successful
as it could have been financially
for Richardson). Playing under
Ridings, he made 30 “in
scratchy fashion” (Wisden), be-
ginning his innings late on the
first day and finishing early next
morning. Soon after, while
fielding, he twisted an ankle and
couldn’t bat in S.A.’s second
innings.
• • • •
The Kippax-Oldfield testi-
monial, like the recent Hassett
game, was between “Hassett’s
XI” and “Morris’s XI.” Arthur
and his men won both times.
Bradman’s testimonial, amaz-
ingly, was a tie. Amazing be-
cause, all told, 1672 runs were
scored. Hassett’s XI, 406 and
430; Bradman’s XI, 434 and
9-402. Tallon, who made a
second-innings 146 not out for
Bradman’s XI, was the hero of
the final day. He made 91 of
the 100 runs scored in the last
hour of the game, and levelled
the scores from the very last
ball.
•j •’ • •
Testimonials are proverbially
run-getting orgies, with centuries
commonplace. There were six
in Bradman’s (one by himself)
and four in Hassett’s (one by
Hassett, two by Miller; also a
97 by Hole). In the Kippax-
Oldfield benefit, though just on
1300 runs were scored, only two
made three-figures, Hassett (159)
and Jack Moroney (217). Brad-
man made 53.
Hassett made a century in
each of the three games—lo 2
in Bradman’s, 159 and, in his
own, 123. Bradman and Has-
sett, in their respective benefits,
made practically similar scores:
Bradman 123 and 10, Hassett
126 and 3.
• • • •
England has not had much
success against West Indies in
recent years. In 1947-48 in the
islands a more-or-less second
English team was badly battered,
losing two of the four Tests and
not winning a game on the whole
tour. At home in 1950, with its
best men in the sides, England
could win only one Test out ot
four.


®K AT THIS
GOODYEAR TYRE
Kefote fru (OJ. at tht
UhlaAfmp—
TREAD Goodyear tread
is made of extra-tough
rubber for .cool running,
traction, non-skidding and
long wear.
CORDS The cord
plies used in Goodyear
Tyres are specially
treated to resist ply
separation, giving blow-
out protection and added
miles.
CHAFING STRIP
To protect bead against
abrasion from contact
with rim flange.
FLIPPER Is another
Goodyear idea which
means a lot of extra,
trouble-free miles to
Goodyear owners. It’s a
rubber impregnated strip
of fabric which firmly
anchors the bead to the
carcase and distributes
the flexing in the side-
wall area.
BEAD The foundation
of the tyre. The bead
of a Goodyear Tyre is
low set, solid, construc-
ted of tough steel wire
cables that ensure longer
life and mileage.
►
»•••
35
V
fit
Over 100 different materials are
used to make a tyre in addition
to the rubber. But, even if all
tyres were made with exactly the
same materials, there’d still be a
difference in tyres. And there is!
Behind every Goodyear Tyre on
the road today is the extra skill
and experience gained in making
millions more tyres than any other
manufacturer. That’s why Good-
years have consistently given more
and safer mileage than any other
tyre. And that’s why it is true
again this year—as in every year
since 1915: "More people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.”
ŵ
ta
mfamq md> bn
about I
Wslb
ẁ
Darkie eyed me portentously.
“Well, she’d had the pups.”
“Oh.”
“Five of them. Dad killed
four, by the light of the lantern.
Then he said to Jack —he’s my
brother—‘Boy,’ he said, ‘take
Nellie and the pup in the sulky,
and go straight home, and give
them to your mother to look
after. And no loitering,’ he said,
‘on the way.’ That was a
hundred-and-thirty-four miles
away.”
6 6TT7AS he any good?” I
VY asked. “The pup?”
“It was a bitch,” Darkie said.
“A big, whitish, bull-headed
bitch. No. She wasn’t any
good. She’d go for a beast’s
head. Jack and Dad were up on
the Birdsville Track, just finished
a job, when she was twelve
months old. Then one day Dad
up and said ‘Boy,’ he said, ‘l’ve
got me a job up in the Gulf
country for a year or two, and
I want you to go down to Vic-
toria, to Bigtree Station —you
mind we took those Herefords
from there—and get a job there.
Tell the manager you’re Stan
Stone’s boy, he’ll give you one.
There’s a blue dog there called
Nipper, and I want you to mate
him with Dolly—that was the
name of the bitch, Nellie’s
daughter—and when she has
pups I want you to kill all but
one, a bitch, and I want you to
kill Dolly.’
“ ‘Gripes, Dad, let me keep
Dolly,’ Jack said. He was fond
of her, useless though she was,
and she’d eat a bullock with no
trouble at all. ‘No,’ Dad said —
a terrible stern man Dad was, at
times. ‘Kill her.’ Then, just as
Jack was saddling up, he sang
out to him, ‘Better call in on
your mother on your way down
and tell her I’ll see her the
September after next.’
“ ‘All right, Dad,’ Jack said,
and rode away,”
“I see,” I ventured. “Your
dogs would be three-parts cattle-
to one bulldog, then.”
“Wait a bit,” Darkie cautioned
me. “Jack did like Dad said,
took the pup he’d bred from
Dolly back home —that was near
Junee, and by the time she was
full-grown Dad was home again,
too. In September, like he said.
But he’d been wandering round
a bit up there in the Territory,
and he met a buffalo-shooter
called Sullivan who had a
terrible good rough-coated dog,
wall-eyed and a bit heavy, but
with a head on his shoulders that
could keep a tally better than a
man. Dad reckoned.
“What imposed Dad about
him was, he called in at this
bloke’s permanent camp once —
he was married, to two lubras,
sisters they were, and Dad was
very interested in how the
children would turn out, on
account of this Sullivan being
red-headed and the sisters so
alike—well, as I was saying, Dad
stayed there for a while, on a
stretcher, and there was a bit of
a hullabaloo one dark night and
Dad found himself being carried
out, through the tent, and splash-
ing through rivers, flat-out on
his back, on the stretcher. Dad
hanging on to the stretcher with
both hands, yelling his head off.
“A big man. Dad, not stout,
but tall, about six-feet-four. My
brother Jack’s big, too. I’m the
only small one. But Dad
reckoned it was a real strange
experience, being carried through
the night like that, on his own
stretcher. What happened, see,
myalls, wild blacks, were poking
round the camp, out to pinch
something, maybe, and Blucher
—that was the dog’s name —
smelt ’em. He’d been under
Dad’s bed, asleep, and he
charged out, getting his head
caught in the wire at the end,
but not bothering to stop. He’d
carried Dad for a mile or two.
Dad reckons, before he realised
his mistake.”
There was a silence while we
both rolled cigarettes. Darkie
coughed. “Of course, mind
you, Dad did exaggerate a bit
sometimes. Probably Bluch
only carried him for half a mile.
Anyway, he was an extra-good
dog, Dad reckoned, and nothing
would satisfy him but that he’d
go back up there with Jenny —
that was the bitch Jack had
saved out of Dolly’s litter —and
mate her with the big blue
fellow. Although the old lady
wasn’t too keen, saying he’d
been away from home too much
the last couple of years, and
sometimes she felt he thought
more of his dogs than he did of
his family.
“Also, I’ve thought since,
though I didn’t then, being, as
you might say, sort of un-
worldly, that the old lady wasn’t
too keen about all this marry-
ing of black sisters and whatnot
that this fellow Sullivan went in
for. Anyway, once my Dad
made up his mind about any-
thing it was no good arguing
with him, so one morning, after
he’d just come back from
Darlington Point with a mob
of sheep, he said to me ‘Boy,
saddle the roan mare.’ So I
caught the roan mare and off he
went. Taking Jenny with him.”
6 600 he mated her with
Blucher, and killed all
the pups bar one, eh? ” I looked
at the clock.
“He did that. But wait a bit.
He killed Jenny, too. But this
time he kept a dog pup. And he
mated her with Nellie.” He
stared at me impressively.
.. Nellie? .. j echoed , “ Now let
■ „
* ’ ’ , ~ .
Nellie, he said impatiently,
“The one that started it all. The
dark-blue bitch he mated with
the white bulldog that was the
mother of . . . ”
“I see,” I said hastily. “Of
course. Nellie.” It sounded
slightly incestuous.
“Well, he kept one pup—a
bitch. That was the dog he’d
been after all the time.”
“Oh,” I said. “I see.”
“From that bitch,” Darkie
went on, “you might say we got
the real boof-headed dogs—the
heeler Dad always wanted.
Bessie’s the last of them.”
“That old bitch of yours?”
“Yair.”
We sat silent, smoking, watch-
ing the dying fire in die stove.
The clock ticked loudly.
“What I was wondering,” said
Darkie, “was whether you
wanted to buy Bessie.”
“No.”
“Oh, I see. I was just
wondering.”
“Why do you want to sell her,
anyway?”
“Well, way Tm fixed, she’s not
much good to me. Don’t want
to breed from her, either. If I
did, pups’d be too severe for my
cows. Not likely to go droving,
or anything like that, now. I
thought as you’d bought a pup,
you’d like to go in for the dogs.
Thought I’d give you the last of
the breed. What was it you said
you paid for that pup?”
I stood up, yawning. “Early
start tomorrow.”
“Getting late,” Darkie said.
“I’d better be going.”
I FOUND my wife waiting up
for me, listening to a serial.
“He didn’t try to sell that dog
to you, did he?” she asked
anxiously. “I meant to tell you.
Mrs. Stone was telling me this
morning, she told him he’d have
to get rid of it. It’s been killing
the fowls.”
“Did she say anything else?”
“Yes, she said he should never
have taken it in the first place.
A man owed him some money,
and offered him the dog instead,
and it’s been a nuisance ever
since. Joe! You didn’t buy it —
did you?”
“Do I look a fool?” I said
indignantly. I glanced curiously
at the mirror.
FLOOD-TIDE
The last ebb-tide, which left the bright beach
rimed with 'kelp, tossed us from boil of surf
to lie here sucked by sun and sand;
I know your sea-swayed hand must reach
beyond mine to the other trash
foam-flurry-flung and drowned here
in the weed, the dead gull swept down
in the black squall’s sudden lash
and blown here with the brittle bones
of cuttlefish, the worm-encrusted driftwood,
all the waves* waste. The painted chips of shell
fade with the opal twilight and the soft tones
of wavering sea-mist drifting slowly
up the beach ; the sand grows dark and hollow
in the huge night, the lights wink from the hills
their warmth and welcome. Here there is only
darkness and the sea, faint stars, the soft thud
and wash of surf on sand; but stay with me
and O my darling love me now
before the flood-tide swirls our bed.
n.s.w.
ROGER CHALLIS BROWN.
NUCLEAR FUSION BY MOONLIGHT
Lovers and fanciful people can dream a bit longer,
embroider the lunar theme for all they’re worth,
play the Beethoven on microgroove,
but the incredible yell of the Jets is stronger,
and now we all know the plainest thing off the Earth:
what the Moon means. Need you ask?
Look at the arid, sterile old death-mask!
And think, not of the poets’ patter,
but searing, corrosive hell in ruptured matter:
one bomb falling, precisely: death in the air,
literal air: the very atmosphere:
the light ten million times brighter and hotter than
summer noon:
and which is Earth; which is the Moon? _ „
QUEENSLAND.
PETER MILES.


Elements of an Industry . . ,
No. 25 of a Series
Cjp
O
i
0
m
I
IS
m
3
‘ ■
eta
PLATINUM When the Spaniards conquered South
America, they found the Indians making white gold. This was an
alloy produced by mixing gold with grains of a grey untarnishable
metal, now known as platinum, a name given to it by the Spaniards
from its resemblance to silver (plata). Platinum is gaining ground
as a favourite metal for jewellery because, like gold, it retains its
lustre and does not rust or corrode. This resistance to atmospheric
and chemical attack, combined with its high melting point and ability
to promote chemical reactions, has made it a metal extremely
valuable to modern industry. Alone or alloyed with other metals,
platinum provides electrical contacts and scientific apparatus. Finally,
it is so stable that it is chosen for making the standard weights and
measures kept by the Board of Trade in London. In Australia
copies of these standards are maintained by the National Standards
Laboratory in Sydney. Platinum is especially important to the
chemical industry, not only in laboratory apparatus, but as a
“catalyst” that is, a substance which assists a chemical process
without itself being altered.
ICIANZ uses platinum at the Deer Park Synthetic Ammonia plant
in converting ammonia into the nitric acid which is used to manu-
facture fertilizers, explosives and many other substances.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
L. 40 A. 3579
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. DEFENCE
No wars and Congress per-
mitting, U.S. defence forces are
due for a 10 per cent, cut in
manpower by June 30, 1955,
while defence spending is to be
cut by 20 per cent, by 1956. The
cuts, however, represent a shift
in policy and an increase in
striking power, rather than any
diminution of Uncle Sam’s
preparedness.
“As a starter,” comments
“U.S. News and World Report,”
“400,000 men are to be lopped
off the 3.5-million-man defence
force in the 18 months to end
June 30, 1955. In the year after
that, on the basis of present
thinking, another 300,000 men
probably will be taken from the
service.
“The Army is to bear the
brunt of cuts that lie ahead. The
Navy will take its cuts, too, but
they will be less severe. The
Air Force, on the other hand,
will remain stable or even rise a
little in manpower and in money
for operations.
“The Air Force, which seven
years ago did not even exist as a
separate institution, is being
accepted as the nation’s first line
of defence, the dominant service
in times of peace. The Navy
had this role in the past.
“Land defence is being keyed
to small but well-equipped
mobile forces rather than a huge
standing Army. And a big
Marine establishment, by all past
standards, will continue to be
maintained.
“New weapons will be stressed
as never before in a period of
peace. During the first economy
round, for example, the Army is
cutting all other types of spend-
ing, but is raising slightly the
outlays for research and develop-
ment.
“At June, 1955, assuming no
change in the international situa-
don, another squeeze probably
will be applied to the Army to
bring the total active armed
forces down to around 2.8
million by mid-1956.
“The Army, under these plans,
faces a gradual reduction to
1.000. men. In firepower, it
will be immeasurably stronger
than any previous American
Army, as atomic and perhaps
hydrogen devices become
standard equipment.
“Marines, in the new scheme
of things, will play a larger role
than in past periods of peace.
Plans call for lopping 20 per
cent, off the present Marine
Corps, to bring the Marines down
to 207,000 men. But, at that
strength, the Corps will be almost
three times as large as in 1950,
and around seven times as big as
in 1940.
“The Navy is to take a 15
per cent, cut from present
strength and then level-off for
the ‘long haul’ at around
670.000, almost twice its pre-
Korea size and four times as
big as it was in 1940. A big,
modern Navy is considered
essential .to counter the rising
threat from missile-firing sub-
marines and to protect bases
and sea supply-lines for raw
materials, including uranium,
that the U.S. needs in increas-
ing quantities.
“Air Force manpower is to
rise a bit from its present level
of 942,000, to 970,000 or more.
Actual combat power will in-
crease to a much greater degree.
“With 942,000 men, the Air
Force now has 107 wings. The
aim is to have 127 wings by
1956 —a 19 per cent, jump in
combat potential—with only 3
per cent, more men.
“When the separate Air Force
was formed, in 1947, it had 19
per cent, of the manpower and
less than a third of the money
allocated to defence. It now has
27 per cent, of the manpower.
By 1956 it will have 34 per cent,
of the men and, probably, a
good bit more than one-third of
the available money.”
Commenting on the proposed
changes, London “Economist”
opines that “the decision to
expand the Air Force while
letting the other arms shrink
represents the abandonment of
what is known in the Pentagon
as the policy of ‘Pistol for the
Rat: pistol for the Badger:
“Washington Post”
“SAY, THAT’S AN IDEA .”
pistol for the Mole’ —that is, of
the three Services receiving year
after year constant shares of the
available manpower, equipment
and funds. The Army and the
Navy have made no secret of
their unhappiness at this deci-
sion. It is the more remarkable
that it has been taken by a
joint chiefs -of - staff, whose
chairman is not only an ad-
miral, but also one who was a
leading opponent of the Air
Force in the great debate several
years ago between the carrier
and the heavy-bomber.
“But it is fairly clear that
some very far-ranging decisions
have been reached. The first is
that the American military
establishment must be put on a
basis which will render it
reasonably immune to shifts in
the international scene or in
Congressional sentiment Over
the next five to fifteen years.
Consequently, its financial bud-
get must be stabilised within the
next two to three years, some-
where below the $3O billion
mark and its manpower below
three million men.
“Second, and as a con-
sequence, the development of all
types of atomic weapons must
be exploited to the full to re-
place manpower by firepower
wherever' possible, this to be
done principally by expanded
air-power.
“Third, it has been concluded
that the Russian possession of
the hydrogen - bomb process
places a new emphasis upon
retaliatory power as the most
effective deterrent to attack on
the United States, and therefore
upon the importance of the
Strategic Air Command.
“Finally, the strategic im-
balance of the United States, by
which out of a total of 23 divi-
sions it has six in Germany and
another nine at the opposite end
of the world in Korea, must be
corrected, even if this means the
withdrawal of some forces from
both those theatres and their
replacement either by local
forces or by tactical atomic
weapons.”
Uneasy France
When U.S. Secretary of State
Dulles and French Foreign
Minister Bidault exchanged
thrusts at the Paris meeting of
the Atlantic Council, London
“Economist” chided them for*
coming “dangerously near to
rhetoric” and asked if they really
believed that “either Government
can disentangle itself from the
costly, interlocking system of air-
fields, bases, pipelines, communi-
cations and integrated staffs that
have been built up at such vast
expense during the last five
years?”
Still, said the “Economist,” “it
is difficult to avoid .expressing
impatience with the hesitant and
dilatory way that the French
have treated their own European
policy; but it is most unwise to
express it in the form of
threats They [the French]
need assistance in the argument
rather than whips to their
emotions.”
London “Spectatdr” was
rather more pessimistic. After
noting that the policy of the
Western Powers was still firm
containment of the Russians,
both in Europe and Asia, it re-
marked that “both these hinges
of the containment policy turn
upon France, and both of them
depend upon the assumption that
France is in a condition to sup-
port this degree of strain. Yet
for many years this assumption
has been little more than a pious
hope; and it has now become a
piece of optimism that may well
be finally disastrous for France,
and will certainly destroy the
foundations of Western policy if
it continues far into the coming
year.”
It was this situation which
moved Mr. Julies to remark that
the U.S. might be forced to an
“agonising reappraisal” of policy
in Europe, and “New York
Times” commentator Hanson
W- Baldwin to write that “the
crumbling Of a cornerstone upon
which all our military policies in
Europe have been based con-
fronts the West with some night-
mare choices. There is no good
political alternative to a strong
and stable Franck. The United
States needs France, if for no
other reason because of her
geographic position, carrying
essential supply-lines to United
States forces in West Germany
as well as providing air-bases and
supply-dumps.”
A glimmer of hope in this
“agonising” situation seems,
according to New York “Herald
Tribune,” to lie in the new
French President, M. Rene Coty,
who, “throughout his lengthy
career as a Parliamentarian, has
been a steady advocate of con-
tinental integration. There seems
every reason to expect that he
will continue to champion
policies akin to those upon which
the tradition of Franco-Arherican
friendship has been built,
“Another facet of M. Coty’s
background which offers
encouragement for the future is
his deep interest in constitu-
tional reform. The unprece-
dented deadlock which preceded
his election was but one symptom
of France’s need for a constitu-
tional revision which would
permit a better use of the
nation’s administrative and poli-
tical talents. M. Coty has long
attempted, without much success,
to lessen the legislative branch’s
dominance over the
he now has an opportunity to
make new efforts toward increas-
ing France’s stability.”


I
Pk
a:
m
<c
m
V 3
>
-<
m
■I i
Y A R R A FAILS
Australia's. Finest Worsted Suitings
The Hofl Mark of Quality
VARR A FALLS LTD.. ABBOTSFORD, N .9,
m
VICTORIA
China-Japan Trade
Examining Japanese eagerness
to trade with China —the Diet
has passed a unanimous resolu-
tion calling for such trade, and
last November an unofficial
Japanese mission concluded a
£3O million mutual trade agree-
ment in Peking—a “New States-
man” correspondent finds the
reason for such interest in “the
fear in Japanese business circles
of an economic crisis.”
“An official estimate is that for
the year ending next March
Japan will have a deficit of 200
million dollars on American
account, although U.S. forces
have spent 800 million dollars
here. The deficit in all overseas
trade will be 1000 million
dollars, the equivalent of Japan’s
total holdings of foreign
exchange. This deficit is due to
the low level of exports, now run-
ning about 30 per cent, of pre-
war.
“Imports cannot be effectively
cut to meet this deficit because
they are mostly of food and
industrial raw materials, without
which these overcrowded islands
will starve or face widespread
unemployment. While Japan’s
territory is only little over half
its pre-war area, her population
has increased by a quarter.
“Before the war one-third of
Japan’s exports were to China—
a level that rose during the war
to nearly 50 per cent. Until
recently Japanese businessmen
have not sought to extend trade
with China for fear of American
displeasure. Now their attitude
is changing.”
Noting that Sino-Japanese
trade is now hardly more than
one per cent, of its pre-war
volume, London “Economist”
speculates on “what would
happen in fact to Japan’s trade
with China if all impediments
were removed and normal trad-
ing relations were resumed?”
“It would be difficult to find
two more unlike economies than
those of Japan and China. The
former, concentrated and highly
industrialised, relies heavily
upon foreign sources for its raw
materials and food. To buy
these goods Japan exports to the
world the products of its light
and heavy industries; its foreign
trade in 1952 was 23 per cent, of
its national income. China, on
the other hand, a vast sprawling
country, mainly agricultural in
character, normally needs to
import little and has only a small
surplus of agricultural and
mineral products for export.
“This wide disparity was,
indeed, the reason why the two
economies were in former years
complementary and mutual trade
was important to them both. But
now that China is entering on a
phase of industrialisation they
are likely to become more com-
petitive ; already China needs for
its own consumption the raw
materials which formerly were
exported to Japan.”
In fact, as the “Economist”
continues, although many in
Japan believe that there are
unlimited possibilities in trade
with China, “the mere removal
of present embargoes will not
restore Sino-Japanese trade to its
former dimensions. Indeed, the
actual effect might be quite
small; for while it is true that
China would like large quantities
of machines and tools for its
industrialisation programme and
to extend its military potential,
there is no evidence that it has
adequate means to pay for them.
In fact, it looks as though China’s
exports to Japan will earn pro-
gressively less.
“The key commodities in
Japan’s imports from China are
coal, iron, salt and oilcake.
Japan’s own coal resources are
extensive, enough to supply more
than 90 per cept. of its needs;
but it is critically short of coking
coals.”
That shortage is being over-
come, however, and, anyway, the
Chinese need all they can get
themselves for their own steel
industry, now being restored and
rebuilt with Russian help in Man-
churia.
Likewise, Japan is finding
other sources of iron. In the
matter of oilcake, although
Japan would like more, China
can’t supply it anyway because
its whole soya-bean crop is being
exported to the Soviet and
Eastern Europe.
“On the export side,” the
“Economist” adds, “the main
commodities coming from Japan
in former years were steel and
other metal products, rolling-
stock, foodstuffs and cotton
fabrics. But the lion’s share went
"Baltimore Su n"
"AND SO AD INFINITUM.”
to the puppet State of Man-
chukuo and to the leased terri-
tory of Kwantung ; the demand
for these arose out of Japanese
investments in these countries.
Exports to China proper were
on a relatively small scale. Now
that Japan has lost its investments
in North China this source of
demand has gone. To make
matters worse, the Communists
have flatly said that they are not
interested in buying Japanese
consumer goods.
“Thus the outlook for Sino-
Japanese trade is not promising.
If politics could be put on one
side the argument for close
economic co-operation would
be very strong; but the political
facts of life cannot be waved
aside so lightly. China is a Com-
munist State bent on developing
with Soviet assistance a modem,
independent economy. If the
Japanese are to share in this
process, then Peking will insist
that they adopt at least a
neutralist policy.
“That, fortunately, is not the
only choice before Japan, since
economically it can live without
China. Since 1946 great strides
have been made in opening up
new sources of supply in South-
East Asia and in pioneering new
markets there. Japan’s choice
here is clearly of importance to
the world, and of special concern
to Britain, with its colonial
responsibilities and traditional
markets in this area. While it is
unpleasant for British exporters
to face Japanese competitors
once again, and while the Board
of Trade looks askance at Japan
knocking at the door of GATT
and the Colombo Plan, Japan’s
dilemma should be understood.
“Those who are hoping to fob
Japan off in the Chinese market,
thus diverting its competition
from comfortable British
markets, are misreading the signs.
There is no real prospect for
large Japanese exports to China
unless Japan is to be sucked into
the Communist orbit.”
Egypt and the Canal
Further comments for the
consideration of the shade of the
Earl of Beaconsfield:
Toronto “Globe and Mail”:
“Sir Winston has repeatedly
made it clear that Suez yields
neither profit nor glory to
Britain. He has said explicitly
that the British Government will
remove the Suez garrison at any
time if suitable arrangements
are made, with Egyptian co-
operation should Cairo be will-
ing, to protect the vital link.
The idea put forward by Sir
Winston, as by other British
spokesmen, was that the canal
might be guarded by a joint
force consisting of, say, British,
American, French and Egyptian
forces —a solution which would
certainly not involve any loss
of dignity by Egypt, considering
how many similar arrangements
are at present in force.
“It is certainly arguable that
Britain should stand by her
tr*%ty rights, which nobody has
successfully disputed, and stay
in the Suez zone in spite of pro-
tests from Cairo; but Sir Win-
ston may have come to the con-
clusion that the right course for
Britain is to clear out and so
confront her Western allies,
hitherto both inarticulate and
inactive on the subject, with a
choice of pitching-in or desert-
ing the only important bastion
of Western influence in the
Middle East. The wisdom or
unwisdom of this drastic action
i$ the issue in Britain ; and how
the problem will finally be re-
solved is not for anv other
CO untrv to sav unless of
course : s nrenared to ’ take
both responsibilities and risks.”
London Daily Telegraph .
“The only tolerable long-term
solution is the one suggested by
the figures showing what ship-
ping uses the canal. Only about
one-third is British; a proper-
tion in no way commensurate
with our heavy responsibility.
Norway France Italy and
America rthonah ’manv nf her
£ io _ L. de ? other fl air o are
,l ps Sa , 5 oth 5, 8 \ .
ot^e r important users. Egypt, to
. ictl we P ro Pose t 0 g lve ettec-
contro|> comes nowhere. In
other words, the canal is truly
an international waterway; its
security should be an inter-
national responsibility.”
Dragnet Digest
Feet-up in the Lords. A
Parisian woman letter-writer in
London “Spectator” is shocked
at what goes on: “One of the
most striking things I witnessed
recently in the House of Corn-
mons and also more shockingly
to me in the House of Lords,
The Lords put their feet up.
How could Englishmen put up
their feet, in the middle of the
learned talk of the other Peers?
On this visit—and as I later
learned is often the case-the
speeches were almost entirely
concerned with dogs and sheep,
tb j s seeme d no reason at
a n t o me for the Peers to put
U p their feet (I should guess
roughly at a forty-five degree
angle) on the nearest table they
found convenient.”
xr _ , „
New Power for Mips.—Fore*
cast by the rec °g nised *°P
authorit y , Jane’s Fighting Ships:
“The large navies are on the
verge of Ganges in ship-propul-
sion w hich may be as profound
as the conversion from sails to
mechanical power. Nuclear
energy will make sea-power more
formidable than ever before by
giving each vessel the capacity
for travelling vast distances with-
out refuelling.”
World Marking-time.—Edin-
burgh “Scotsman’s” special
correspondent makes the best of
the latest, fruitless U.N.O. ses-
sion: “Lack of achievement on
the part of the Assembly,
although regrettable, is hardly
surprising. This is a period of
marking-time in world affairs.”
Indian Fallacy. — New i one
Times,” on the Indian notion
that < because non-violence and
passive resistance worked against
Bntam 't wfilalsc»™kagauttt
Soviet Russia and Commun-
ism : “That method worked
against Britain because, by and
large and with all the lapses
common to all of us, Britain is
governed by a moral law and a
moral conscience embedded m
lts own people which no longer
permit the savage oppression
and mass-murder with which
Communism establishes and
consolidates its rule. One can
only hope that India will never
have to test its philosophy
against an opponent who delib-
erately and explicitly denies all
the moral values on which it is
based.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The M.I.A.
A. G. Enticknap, N. S. Wales Minister
for Conservation, lately announced that
the strengthening and? enlarging of Burrin-
juck Dam to increase its capacity by
130,000 acre-feet is almost finished, and
that production from the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Areas reached a record at
£8,250,000 for the year ended June 30,
1953.
In the early 1920’s it was the fashion
for political and economic experts to de-
cry the whole Murrumbidgee irrigation
project—it was a sink for public money,
the dam was far too big and 50 years
before its time, and the settlers hadn’t a
hope. How wrong they were!
With the coming of rice to the M.1.A.,
requiring vast quantities of water to
grow it, the dam was soon found too
small. The threatened cutting-off of
water-supplies in 1939 —fortunately
avoided because of timely rains—was one
reason for increasing the dam’s capa-
city. Settlers who remember droughts
are relieved to know that future supplies
look reasonably certain.
Large-area farms contributed £5,180,040
of the total of the M.LA.’s 1953 record
production, an increase of £1,041,240 on
the 1951-52 figures. Rice leads the field,
being worth £2,473,440 to 400 growers
from 27,472 acres harvested. That is
£901,440 better than the figure for the
year before, a contributing factor to the
increase being the competition between
private enterprise and the co-operative
organisations. Wool (£1,454,600) follows
rice, then livestock (£969,000); wheat,
oats and other sundries make up the
total.
Horticultural products returned
£2,385,700, a drop of £380,700 on the
previous year. Lighter crops and a slump
in the price of some varieties of jam-
fruits and wine-grapes caused the de-
crease. Citrus (£753,700) is the leader,
followed by peaches (mainly canning vari-
eties) at £546,700 and wine-grapes
(£336,400).
There was a serious drop in the value
of vegetables from £606,950 to £416,100.
Vegetables are mostly grown by Italian
settlers, many of whom lease areas for the
purpose from large-area farmers. There
was no profitable sale for large quantities
of record crops, and many tons of carrots
and tomatoes were left in the ground to
rot.
The surplus produced by the large-area
farmers more than offset the reduced
value of the horticultural and vegetable
production and held the net overall in-
crease at £519,290.
This year’s figures bring the total value
of production from the M.I.A. for 33
years to £70,000,000, a fairly creditable
effort for a “sink.”
True, large sums were written off the
capital debts of the soldier-settlers, and
there were adjustments during the
depression. But the war years were
prosperous ones for the M.I.A. It stood
up well to the demands for food for the
armed forces —80 per cent, of the canned
and dehydrated vegetables supplied to
the Allied troops in the S.-W. Pacific was
produced on the M.I.A. and processed
through the Leeton cannery.
Any money the State lost in the write-
off of the soldiers’ debts must have been
more than recouped by what it is now
getting from the sale of its town, housing
and industrial blocks.
Railway revenue is in the vicinity of
£1,500,000, and there is a population of
just on 24,000, Both Leeton and Grif-
fith are regarded as among the soundest
and best towns for business in the State.
The story of the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area should be told in full, and a
copy handed to those who are now doing
their best to sprag the Snowy River
Scheme.—R. M. (N.S.W.).
Single-wicket Cricket
Everyone knows that a lot of first-class
cricket today is exceeding dull. A Test
season in particular seems to inspire dull-
ness. I offer as a solution to the dragged-
out Test match a return to the single-
wicket game. A single-wicket match can
be played in a couple of hours, with as
much excitement and entertainment in
that time as there is now in the whole of
a six-day Test. The fact that 11 men try
to outwit and beat 11 others, instead of
one against one, doesn’t make present-day
cricket 11 times better. It’s more likely
the other way about.
Single-wicket cricket is a real test of
all-round cricket ability. And the player
must be in tiptop nick —the bowler bowls
steadily without any rest between overs
and he has to bat almost immediately
after he dismisses his opponent. Scores
in historic single-wicket games are gener-
ally low, though the standard of the
cricket was high.
It could be given a go. If Tests were
played single-wicket between teams of,
say, two champions on each side, as in the
Davis Cup, we would certainly get high-
standard play and a great saving in time.
And the crowd on the one day of play
needed would probably rival that which
attends a Melbourne Aussie Rules final. —
Roscoe (Vic.).
Maize
t »
Clem Lack is astray in ascribing maize
to North Africa in Roman times (B.
30/12/’53), It was unknown outside
America before it was brought to Europe
by Columbus.
Probably originated from a form of
pod-corn possibly still wild in the low-
lands of South America, maize was being
grown from the southern tip of Chile
to the 50th north parallel when Colum-
bus reached the New World. The civi-
lisations of the Aztecs and the Mayas
were founded on it.
Columbus, in his diary, said “it is good-
tasting and all the people in this land
live on it.” He brought some back to
Spain as a curiosity. Thirty years later
it was being grown in Andalusia, mainly
for stock-feed. Venetian traders took it
to Crete, and seed grown there was dis-
tributed all over the Mediterranean lands.
The Turks especially welcomed it.
Years later Venetians were bringing
maize back from Turkey, and, forgetting
its origin, calling it “Turkey-corn.” In
1574 a German traveller found the land
of the Euphrates covered with fields of
maize. In 1630 it was grown in
Rumania. By the end of the 17th cen-
tury it was permanently established in
south-eastern Europe as a major food-
crop. Within two generations of its
arrival in Europe it had reached Africa,
India, Tibet and China.
A grain which grew fast, yielded pro-
lifically, gave two crops a year and could
be cultivated without draught animals or
heavy equipment was immediately popu-
lar. European stomachs, which had
often been empty, were filled. Unfor-
tunately, a diet almost exclusively maize
brought evils in its train, and pellagra
received its first notice from Casal, a
physician in north-western Spam, in
1730. Over a century and a half later
Funk showed this was a deficiency
disease associated with vitamin-lack in
m F? e -
The gram was Indian-corn” to the
first settlers in America. Soon it was
The I s a so F ce . of
thJ U fl° n ’ many ’ /? r i nsta nce, imagine
HrnlimK CO l n f^ f phS rethren
aniH^ 14 frC !F same
C V £ Bfm W^icd eC tde * ncas ‘
. v. K. (LM
ABC News-readers
. News readers
Why does the A.B.C. lose its best
news-readers to the commercial net-
works? Latest to go is Jim Dibble, billed
by the Macquarie news-service as “Aus-
“This little piggy went to market ”
tralia’s leading news-reader”—and the
title is fully merited.
Over the years the A.B.C. has lost
Heath Burdock, Bryson Taylor, Bruce
Miller, Don Chadwick, Don Sanderson
and now Jim Dibble. Miller joined the
W.E.A. staff at Sydney University; the
others all went to commercial networks
where their ability was recognised and
adequately rewarded.
Burdock was a tower of strength to the
A.B.C. during the war. His reading of
some of the important bulletins won the
admiration of listeners throughout Aus-
traha, and it was common for country
v F dn S Sydney to call at the
A.B.C. studio and thank him for the ex-
cellent service he was rendering.
I know from personal experience that
most news-readers leave the A.B.C. only
because it refuses to pay them adequate
salaries. The commission’s news-service
is now costing close on £300,000 a year;
surely it can afford the few extra pounds
necessary to retain its best readers—
Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Guide-dogs
“Karrimba” (B. 11/11/’53) infers that
trained guide-dogs are only for blind
people “blessed with a well-lined pocket.”
That is decidedly not so. No charge
of any kind is made by us for the trained
dogs supplied. . . ,
Our work is made possible by the
voluntary assistance of many helpers and
the financial support of a sympathetic
and generous West Australian public-
Constance Gibbon Guide Dogs for the
Blind Association (W.A.).
_ „
the Dead Heart
W. H. Fleming (B. 23/12/’53) is right,
of course—only trace-elements and stock-
water are needed to make our low-rain-
fall areas habitable, but unless great care
is taken stock will soon eat out the coun-
try around a water-supply to the extent
that it will never recuperate and the soil
will blow away.
Light-stocking and many water-points.
which aren’t easy to provide, are essential,
Dams and tanks can only be sited in
certain places, and reticulation-systems
are usually needed for the necessary dis-
persal of stock. Under present condi-
tions the high cost is only justified in a
few favorable cases.
The reference to Tietkens recalls his
unsuccessful wells north of Ooldea Mis-
sion where he tried to put his theories
into practice. Tietkens gained his ex-
perience as a worthy lieutenant of Giles,
who journeyed through some of the driest
country of the West and Centre and was
surely our toughest explorer.—Gui (Vic.)
The first step in reclaiming the inland
should be to establish permanent water-
supplies for those now eking out a living
in dry places. Organised search for
water has been sadly lacking in the past.
Complete hydro-geological surveys, fol-
lowed, where reports are favorable by
sectional profile drilling, are necessary
While some of the fresh-water from
r j vers atK i cree ks is lost in the slush and
salt of Lake Eyre and other dead-ends, a
lot of it descends to Nature’s under-
ground storehouse and waits for man’s
ingenuity to tap and use for his own
benefit.
L K - Ewers > in The Sun on M V Back,
mentions Elkedra station, 300 miles
north-east of Alice Springs, with its
precious homestead waterhole. Here, by
judicious sinking of sub-artesian bores to
various depths to avoid salt-water, and
by the erection of gigantic windmills with
blades 28ft. long, a satisfactory water-
supply is assured.
The discovery of uranium and other
minerals is attracting workers and specu-
lators to our hot, dry inland, but per-
manent settlement and progress depend
first and foremost on water. — Ann
(N.S.W.).
■
Restore Local Government
Many of our political ills stem from
one cause —the whittling-away of local-
government. The recent centralising of
“greater” Sydney’s authority in a few
aldermen (including two Commos) is only
one i nsta nce among many,
The more an effective voice is taken
away f rom the average citizen, the less
interest he takes in bettering his environ-
ment, the more cynical he becomes about
community concerns, the more rackets
flourish and the more scope there is for
corrupt dealings.
Measures for’restoration of real con-
trol by the people should include genu-
ine local-government (not necessarily
pocket-handkerchief municipalities) in
local affairs and, in the political sphere,
provision for initiative, referendum and
recall—advocated long years ago by The
Bulletin. —H. K. W. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
Muddled thinking on compulsory
unjonism (B . 30/12/'53) tends to destroy
de ' mocracy , p reser .
tj demands discrimination between
ompulsions which protect and those
whi( £ destroy freedom . Even ;/ volun-
ary. un j on j smj many other voluntary
systems, has not come up to expecta-
tions, that is no reason to abandon one
0 f the basic freedoms—that of associa-
tion.
We already have compulsory Par-
liamentary voting, which destroys the
value of the vote, and to that “Trans-
porticus” would add compulsory union
voting, thus increasing the number of
officials minding not their own but our
business.
It is ironical that a people which does
not take kindly to any form of compul-
sion is developing into a race of busy-
bodies who, when frustrated in their
desire to mind other people’s business,
call for compulsion. Is it intolerance or
lack of discipline—which is a form of
selfishness?
Democracy cannot develop without
discipline, which in its true form is not
regimentation but willing obedience,
You can have discipline without liberty,
but you cannot have liberty without
discipline.
“Transporticus” wants to “carry the
matter to its logical conclusion.” He
should advocate compulsory freedom
— Rusty (N.S.W.),


In Praise of “Penguins”
The* invention of movable-type print-
ing (whether by Gutenberg or, as the
Dutch claim, by a Dutch contemporary
of Gutenberg, Lourenz Coster) resulted
in a tremendous spreading of knowledge
and a far greater diffusion of culture.
In our day there has been a comparable
revolution in the spreading of know-
ledge—by the paper-covered Penguin
and Pelican books. Since the Penguins
first appeared in 1935, and the Pelicans
two years later, more than 150 million
copies have been sold and some 2000
titles printed.
The success of the Penguins has ex-
posed the fallacy that people won’t read
the classics. The Penguin Odyssey,
Divine Comedy and Voltaire’s Candide
have been best-sellers. Sir Allen Lane,
founder of the Penguins, claims that he
has “always looked for the best in read-
ing.” As well as fiction, there have been
Penguins and Pelicans on a wide variety
of subjects, written by accepted authori-
ties in their fields.
Their strongpoint is, of course, their
cheapness. I am a regular buyer of
Penguins—l can’t afford many hard-
covered books when the cost of one
equals half the weekly payments on my
house. The huge sales of Penguins indi-
cate that there are plenty like me,
I understand that Penguins are shortly
to be published in Australia. That is
welcome news. I take it for granted that
Australian books will be published, so
we may soon see some of the older Aus-
tralian classics, now out of print. Jonah,
for instance, and the works of Norman
Lindsay,— Maros (W.A.).
Coastal Shipping
The general decline of our coastal ship-
ping (B. 13/1 / ’54) is yet another symptom
of our artificial economy, and another
factor increasing the cost of it.
Although we complain that not enough
of the petrol tax is devoted to roads and
that rail delivery is dilatory, the real cause
for complaint should be that the over-
loading of these two transport systems is
the result of making what should be the
cheapest highway too expensive. With
only the upkeep of lighthouses and a few
lightships, Australia’s coastal sea-route
should be the cheapest.
It is useless to suggest that the Cahill
Government should honor its promise to
improve outport shipping facilities if, at
the same time, it eliminates the ships
which use the ports.
That a country with a coastline of over
11,000 miles and a sparse but expanding
population should actually force ships out
of business is deplorable and dangerous.
X. N. O. (N.S.W.).
New Labor Party Wanted
The Labor movement in Australia has
become so identified with the Australian
Labor Party that, unless a wise head or
two arise, the former will suffer for the
accumulated sins of the latter.
The A.L.P. is an outmoded body.
Before they can get nomination its Par-
liamentary candidates, State and Federal,
and its local-government candidates must
still pledge themselves to a policy deter-
mined in 1921. That 1921 outlook is
out-of-date today. The Great War,
which broke out in a period when Aus-
tralian Labor had achieved the right to
view its progress with satisfaction,
brought in its train a number of very
un-Australian factors, greatest of which
was the attitude that sprang from the
anti-conscription campaigns.
It was in this atmosphere, when the
agents of the Communist party were
preaching the miracles of Soviet Russia,
that the A.L.P. conference inserted into
the party’s platform the plank of social-
isation of the means of industry, produc-
tion, distribution and exchange.
Now, 33 years later, when world con-
ditions, and Australian conditions, have
completely changed, the Parliamentary
representatives of the A.L.P. are still
forced to pledge themselves to carry out
that 33-year-old policy whatever their
personal beliefs. .
During the last Senate campaign the
leader of the Federal Labor party tried
to convince the public that socialisation
is a dead issue.” The same leader is
now trying to disown compulsory union-
ism, which is also a plank of the
A.L.P.’s Federal platform.
Small wonder that the A.L.P. is
deteriorating, and the entire Labor move-
ment is suffering to an even greater
extent. . „ , . .
The socialisation policy, for instance,
is outdated, and sooner or later profit-
sharing and incentive-payments will re-
place its baneful influence. By the same
token, compulsory unionism is wanted
only by those who make their living
from the trade-union movement—union
secretaries, organisers and politicians.
It is a tragedy that the Labor move-
ment —as distinct from the A.L.P. —
should have become so hidebound, when
it began as such a flexible, fighting
organisation.
Today both the movement and the
party are split into factions that will
bring about chaos and destruction. If
sU*WeS*|
I AS
I USUALi
MATCHES
#
only the Socialists would realise that
they are apostles of a creed long out-
worn, and give the realistic non-Socialists
an opportunity of proving that a non-
Socialist Labor party could be successful,
and could advance the status of the
employee in a private-enterprise
economy, "Australia would be the princi-
pal benefactor in the long run.
A virile Labor movement is needed in
this country —one with the vision to
scrap yesterday’s ideas for the better
ones offering today. Such a movement
would be bound to possess a strong, and
perhaps incorruptible, Parliamentary
wing.— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Australia’s First Railway
It now seems assured that S.A. will
hold a centenary celebration of the open-
ing of Australia’s first railway—the Port
Elliot and Goolwa line (opened May 18,
1854).
Last year the Acting Commissioner for
S.A. Railways announced that the line
was only a horse-drawn tramway, that it
was not considered the first railway in
Australia and that the railways commis-
sioners had accepted Melbourne’s
Hobson’s Bay railway (opened September
12, 1854) as the first steam rail run in
Australia.
Of course that arbitrary ruling could not
be accepted as correct. England, France
and Canada all had “first railways” which
were operated by horses in their early
years, but they were never called tram-
ways. Basically, the word railway derives
from the fact of the permanent-way being
laid with rails ; the type of traction used
has nothing to do with it.
An article in The Bulletin (20/5/’53)
really started a popular movement in S.A.
to recognise the railway and to
hold a centenary in spite of non-
recognition by the Government.
The “Victor Harbor Times”
(5/6/’53) reproduced the article
in full, together with an editorial
exhortation to the local govern-
ing bodies of the south coast of
S.A. to combine and celebrate the
centenary of the Port Elliot and
Goolwa railway. The idea caught
on and many local bodies are
interested, as well as members of
Parliament and prominent citizens. Also
the Royal Geographical Society of S.A.
has announced that it was helping the
Port Elliot District Council by making
available to it for public exhibition a
number of relics of the old railway.
Meanwhile a search for particulars of
the construction of this little-known early-
railway has resulted in the discovery of
rather rare items on the line in Sydney’s
Mitchell Library and the gathering of
much information by the archivist of the
Public Library of S.A., Mr. McLellan.
The line was recommended to the home
authorities on April 6, 1850, by Governor
Sir Harry Young as a railway, not a tram-
way. Rails used were 401 b. to the yard
and the line was surveyed with gradients
suitable for steam locomotives.
Some of this information was sent to
the N. S. Wales Commissioner for Rail-
ways for an opinion on the status of the
railway. He passed it on to the Australian
Railway Commissioners’ Conferences for
a considered opinion, and it has since been
forwarded to the secretary of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Railways Con-
ferences, who is now dealing with the
matter. The claim for the railway has now
been amended to “First Railway in Aus-
tralasia,” as the first railway in New
Zealand did not open until 1863.
Whatever the decision of this last
authority it seems quite certain that many
people will take part in the Port Elliot-
Goolwa Railway centenary celebration on
May 18. It is also to be hoped that the
S.A. authorities will change their attitude
towards the railway and co-operate
in commemorating a day which
marks the beginning of the railway
era in Australasia, Geo Beesley
(N.S.W.).
Export Beef
The Newmarket (Melbourne) Pro-
ducers’ Association chairman says that
the British housewife will simply refuse
to buy beef of the quality foisted on her
during the 14 years of bulk-buying.
The British wage-earner is as much a
member of a Welfare State as is the Aus-
tralian, and, with his high wages, has the
wherewithal to buy what he wants when
available. Because of Britain’s determina-
tion to pay her war debts she rationed
herself and, though profits from trade
have been substantial and wages high, the
taxgatherer left nothing but frugal fare
for all sections of the British people. But
“Get someone else—the little runt won't relax!"
that is over now, and fillet steaks will be
demanded by the English wharf-lumper,
and juicy roast-beef well-marbled will be
invitingly displayed in the London shops.
It won’t, however, be Australian. All
we can offer is big, fat, five-year-old beef,
stringy and tough from the walk from the
breeding grounds of the Northern
Territory, because money that should be
spent on the Dajarra-N.T. railway is to
be used to electrify the Brisbane city lines.
We should give the men who made
most of our £500,000,000 overseas credit
the tools to continue making more. We
should build a railway to bring in the
young cattle. The young stock can’t walk
in—it is too far and too rough for them —
so they must remain until they are old
and tough.
Britain now will buy only “baby beef.”
We have it by the 100,000, but cannot
deliver it without a railway from the
N.T. to the fattening pastures of southern
Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria.
Unless the railway is built the rolling
plains of the Barkly Tableland will sink
back to their value of 50 years ago.—
Hadley Propsting (Q.).
Melbourne Drought
Melbourne’s water shortage has reached
such a crisis that the Board of Plenty of
Works and No Water has been inundated
with suggestions, from pumping the Yarra
on to public gardens to placing an
ordinary half-brick in every toilet system,
which, the inventor claims, will save half
a gallon every time the unit is flushed.
I have a suggestion which is so simple
that it should have occurred to chairman
Jessop long ago, particularly as he has a
very fine garden at Greensborough and
must know something about a plant’s
needs. It is to apply the ban on sprinklers
every other day throughout the summer
season. Then every garden would get
sufficient water, the board’s storages
would remain at a high level, and millions
of gallons would be saved instead of
being wasted on garden paths and
suburban gutters.
The present method of waiting for a
crisis and then slapping on a ban for
three or four days is simply slaughtering
all the gardens. A plant doesn’t need
to be watered every day—in fact, it is
much better for the plant if it isn’t. I have
a nursery in one of Mr. Jessop’s drought
areas and have lost all my next season’s
cuttings, amounting to several thousands,
but I have been able to keep some of
my plants alive on a weekly dose of
water. —Melbn (Vic.).
Limit Wheal Acreage
Despite the squeals of officials, poli-
ticians and others the chairman of the
Australian Wheat Board has the right
idea, in the opinion of most wheatgrowers.
Down the years, the only effective answer
to gluts and low prices has been less
production. What’s the use of exhausting
wheatlands by growing surpluses and
losing on the job?
The job should be left to the growers.
Stop urging these practical men to pro-
duce blindly in times of scarcity in the
belief that their wheat will never go
unwanted.
To sell wheat in the so-called East
would mean buying or taking their manu-
factured goods in exchange; then what
would become of our high living
standards?
Boiled down, it all comes back to
supply and demand, and under that
inescapable law any of our products, bar
wool, that lean too heavily on export
markets are, to say the least, insecure
Shadow-chaser (Vic.).
TV or No TV
Great Britain, the U.S.A., France,
Germany, Russia, Japan, Italy and several
smaller nations now have television, Aus-
tralia hasn’t got it, though we have a
royal commission inquiring into the
subject. The French can afford TV, the
Russians have the technical knowledge
to produce it, and the Japanese can sit at
home and enjoy it. But the radio is good
enough for Australians.
Private enterprise is ready to go ahead
with TV in this country, and there are
sufficient scientists and technicians for the
job. Any further delay will mean that
these men will go overseas to more pro-
gressive places.
Meanwhile, people sitting comfortably
before a fireside in London will have a
far better view of Queen Elizabeth and
her Australian trip than the citizens of
Sydney and Melbourne. — J. F. (N.S.W.)-


For your
BRIGHT SHEET STEEL
REQUIREMENTS
• Superfin -For extenor panels
• Satin for general purposes
• Enamel for vitreous enamelling
and other special purpose grades.
John Lysaght (Australia] Pty.
Limited—General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Fremantle, Wellington,
N.Z.
ŵ
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ẁ
. . . BUT HE
" WEARS A
NEO-
BABBBRE
No Pads —
No Sprints
NBO-BAEEKBI
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
WTito today fot FREE LITERATURE •
babbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.' 8h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SEND FOR
KULCSTBATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
machines at only a tac-
tion of their cost Tbs
"National" Rotary Dupb
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing- Plot*
Music, etc.
BmiU antifly t* Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Apenit—
MELBOURNE .. Neman Bros. Ptf-
ADELAIDE .. *«**
PERTH .. ..Docket Book do, (At»/
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dairy Shorthorns
“Bully”; In Victoria farmers,
all-out to increase the carrying-
capacity of their properties, in
order to improve the dual-
purpose qualities of their herds,
are freely buying Dairy Short-
horns.
The trend towards this breed
is strong in Victoria, due solely
to the fact that classes are held
for it at Melbourne Royal
Show. Lack of these classes at
Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane
has robbed other States of the
opportunity of advancing the
beef-raising qualities of the
Shorthorn.
At Dandenong (Vic.) market
recently Shorthorn calves
fetched up to £3 per head;
Shorthorn crosses were slightly
less ; other breeds went 'as low
as 7s. 6d.—with little disparity
in age. From this angle alone
the dual-purpose Shorthorn
stands out as a profit-making
asset.
The Willow Park Shorthorn
stud at Swan Hill (Vic.), owned
by J. and J. Atkinson, claims
that many breeders, particularly
of Jerseys, are using D.S. bulls
on part of their herds to im-
prove their bobby calves, and
that even beef-raisers are using
the breed to improve the milk-
yield of their cows.
Shorthorns demand more feed
than most other types. The
carrying-capacity of properties
must be improved to maintain
them and their progeny. Where
rainfall is insufficient for pas-
tures irrigation is necessary. Re-
serves of pasture and oaten-hay
for winter use is sound policy.
Another “Warning”
“Agric”: Farmers through-
out the world were in danger
of being punished for increas-
ing production at the request of
their Governments, said the
International Federation of
Agricultural Producers’ Secre-
tariat recently, and it warned
that the farmers’ plight had
always been a forerunner of de-
pressions. Roger Savary, the
secretary-general of the outfit,
which claims to represent 25
million farmers, said Govern-
ments which were encouraging
farmers to produce more did not
have programme policies con-
sistent with the need to dispose
of the extra food produced.
The United Nations Food
and Agricultural Organisation
(F.A.0.) had urged all-out
agricultural expansion, but
national incomes in most coun-
tries were not expanding fast
enough, or were not distributed
fairly enough to enable world
demand to keep pace with in-
creasing food-supplies. The
farmer’s share of the consumer’s
dollar was shrinking throughout
the world, and development of
world markets and establish-
ment of world buffer-stocks were
the remedies to prevent
troubles.
Such steps were, however,
beyond the capabilities of any
one Government, International
co-operation was essential, for
which F.A.O. was established.
Failure to take action while
there was still time would lead
only to a revival of economic
nationalism and a declining
living standard.
National devices, such as pro-
duction and trade restrictions
and export subsidies, were not
durable solutions. They would
not only play havoc with the
hopes for a better world but
also would lead to mistrust and
bitterness in international rela-
tions at a time when the unity
of all free people was the best
guarantee of lasting peace. The
I.F.A.P. had recommended the
setting-up of a world food re-
serve into which surplus pro-
duction could be placed and
withdrawn as required, to con-
tribute to market stability, under
the joint auspices of F.A.0., the
United Nations Secretariat and
the International Bank for Re-
construction and Development.
Curing Concrete
“R.H.G.”: The curing pro-
cess in concrete is one of the
most important things about it.
Reinforced concrete-pipes after
manufacture are put under con-
tinuous water-sprays for several
weeks. The idea is to maintain
a slow and steady hardening of
the cement-mix and to avoid
sudden drying-out.
While most handymen are
aware of the necessity for doing
something of the sort, and so
keep wet bags over the job, the
immediate drying-out, or har-
dening, of the mix, which after
a few hours presents a fairly
solid surface, is only the initial
stage. It is not the real curing
process. This starts after the
initial settling, and continues in-
definitely for years. Because of
this, proper handling at the start
is the key to ensuring best results.
On small jobs, where the
cement comes to its perfection
of hardness fairly quickly, a few
hours’ attention with wet bags
would no doubt be good
enough.
But it is not good enough for
anything sizeable. Taking as an
example the floor of an ordinary
shed, 20ft. by 16ft., with about
3in. of good concrete-mix as
floor, laid on solid foundations
of stone and tamped gravel,
with the finished job protected
from the direct rays of the sun
at all times, a minimum period
of two weeks should be devoted
to curing, by daily water-spray-
ing, examination for cracks,
checking on coloration and
speed of drying. A month is
better.
During this time the floor
should not be used other than
to walk over in soft shoes while
spraying, and this should not
be done for at least 48 hours,
the spraying meanwhile being
managed as best you can from
the edges.
With work out in the open,
especially in summer, nothing
but water-spraying all the time
will really meet the full require-
ments. Where this isn’t practi-
cal, some sort of covering or
shelter must be provided and
kept moist.
Provided workmanship and
materials are of the best, the
time given to correct curing
will be well repaid by a first-
rate floor of impregnable hard-
ness.
Wool Diseases
“Hux”: Humid weather, with
summer and autumn rains and
heavy growth of pastures, are
mainly responsible for lumpy-
wool and fleece-rot. Both
damage the fleece.
Lumpy-wool is caused by a
fungus organism usually pre-
sent in the wool. Spreading
over the underlying skin, it, sets
up inflammation and scabs fdrm.
Large areas of the skin are some-
times covered with hard masses
of matted wool. If this mass is
forcibly removed the surface is
left raw and bleeding. Given
time, the scabs break up and
are pushed off by the growth
of the new wool.
Lumpy-wool usually attacks
the back and sides. In full-
woolled animals the fleece
appears normal and the con-
dition may not be discovered
until shearing. For this rea-
son the flock should be regu-
larly examined in humid or wet
months. Young Merinos are
the worst sufferers, but cross-
breds are susceptible.
To destroy the fungus, dip
the sheep in a solution of 11b.
of copper sulphate to 50gal, of
water. Repeat 10 days later. At
this strength it does not stain
the wool.
The bacteria which induces
fleece-rot is present in the soil
and is carried into the wool by
dust. If the wool remains wet
for any time the organisms mul-
tiply rapidly and inflame the
skin, which, discharging, causes
“I thought it might come in handy in this country."
the wool to mat; lumpiness does
not occur.
Examination of the fleece will
show a greyish-yellow band of
matted wool on the back,
withers or sides. The organisms
sometimes produce pigments
which color the wool.
Sheep from six to 12 months
are most often affected, open-
ness of the wool allowing mois-
ture to penetrate to the skin.
The bacteria being in the soil,
they cannot be controlled by
dipping.
Sheep suffering from lumpy-
wool or fleece-rot are suscept-
ible to blowfly-attack.
The odor and the dampness
of the* exuding skin help the
maggots. Strikes may cover the
back, sides and withers, and,
unless promptly treated, may
cause death. At the least, large
areas of most valuable parts of
the fleece have to be removed
in treatment.
%
Record Yield
“Myrrhee”: Highest yield of
wheat ever produced in northern
Victoria was taken off 55 acres
at Dookie. Pinnacle, it was
grown by P. J. Ryan. Har-
vested under official super-
vision, it went 66.2 bushels an
acre. Previous record was 63.7
bushels at Dookie in 1948. The
crop was grown on black land,
was very even and the heads
were thick and well filled.
Victorian Wheats
“ Mr. ” : Recommendations
this year by Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture for Wim-
mera black soils are Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Magnet; for red and
fringe soils. Pinnacle, Quadrat,
Diadem and Insignia. Pinnacle
is a mid-season variety, highly-
resistant to flag-smut, and har-
vests well. Its flour-quality is
superior to that of its parent,
Pindar, and it is recommended
for sowing anywhere in the
Wimmera.
For northern Victoria the de-
partment advises sowing as fol-
lows : Mid-north (west of a line
from Yarrawonga to Shepparton
and west of the Goulburn
River), Insignia, Quadrat, Pin-
dar and Pinnacle''; north-east
(east of the line abovemen-
tioned), Quadrat, Diadem, Mag-
net, Baldmin, Pinnacle, Pindar
and Sherpa. This Sherpa is a
new one, bred by the depart-
ment at Dookie from a cross
between Ghurka and Amity.
For the northern Mallee,
Insignia, Bencubbin, Quadrat]
Sherpa and Diadem; central and
southern, Insignia, Sherpa,
Quadrat, Bencubbin and
Diadem.
Pears in Storage
“C.S.”: Pear-growers can
safely send their fruit to cool-
store as soon as possible after
picking, according to C.5.1.R.0.
and N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, each of whom has
tested and proved the matter.
Delaying storage of pears
picked later than the optimum
stage can greatly reduce their
storage-life, particularly in hot
weather. This applies especially
to the sensitive Williams.
Although recent research has
shown that under special condi-
tions the cool-storage of pears
can be delayed after picking for
as long as three days for Wil-
liams and longer for Packhams,
these findings cannot yet be
applied in commercial practice.
The recommendation that
pears be placed in cool-storage
as soon as possible after picking
and cooled down rapidly still
stands.
Eelworm
“Heterodera”: Valuable land
on the N.S.W. Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area is becoming in-
creasingly infested with eel-
worm.
Apart from the characteristic
galls on plant-roots when eel-
worm is thick,, its presence can
be suspected from thin and
GET IN EARLY
“The Bulletin” no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. 6d.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
i
'Plii
A;;;:-:.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
w
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated- pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established jor S 5 years
■ DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
g.A. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: K. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS ’ Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
The new EiYSfIGHT
500 BUSHEL GRAIN SILO
saves you money and worry
ŵ
Enjoy freedom from
• HIGH BAG COSTS
• RATS AND MICE
• DETERIORATION OF
GRAIN IN BAGS
Prefabricated from heavy
gauge galvanized iron.
Rodent and weatherproof.
Simple to erect.
Permanent asset.
Generous depreciation
allowance for taxation.
Steel floor is part of each
500 Bushel Silo Set.
Ready to erect on Earth
Ring or other Base installed
by the Owner.
Write for Data Sheet on
Foundations and Bases. ,
\
m
» * •
... ,
H
’WP K > iWiTitiititW'
tVit
m*
* » 9
%
sssmm&
•poemS
PRICE £7O (AT WORKS)
PRICES of other lysaght silos
Write for further information ond Agents' Names to>~~
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA! PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITIES
Ljsaght Augers are avail-
able for all LYSAGHT
SILOS. Vertical Sets
range from £75/13/-.
reduced stands, unequal height
of plants, with some stunting
and dwarfing, early discolora-
tion and dropping of leaves,
tendency to wilt, disappearance
of legumes in pasture and
general unthriftiness,
Chemical treatment of the
soil is effective, but generally
too costly, except when high-
priced crops are grown. Crota-
laria is the only legume resist-
ant to eelworm, and provides a
cheap means of ridding soil of
the pest (or at least greatly re-
ducing it) as well as building-up
soil-fertility.
Urea for Sugar-cane
“Molasses”: In heavy-rain-
fall areas where sugar-cane is
grown some risk; of loss of nitro-
gen from leaching is involved in
heavy applications of sulphate
of ammonia at planting-time,
and the crop tends to suffer
from a shortage of nitrogen
during its growth either as a
first or as a ratoon crop.
It is hard to apply sulphate to
the soil after the crop has
“closed in,” and leaf-scorching
occurs if it is broadcast over
the crop.
So leaf-fertilisation of grow-
ing cane with the new nitrogen
compound, urea, by the use of
aircraft, has become established
practice overseas. An advant-
age is that urea is immediately
absorbed by the leaves, and, not
having to await solution in the
soil, is effective even during a
dry period.
Urea for Citrus
“Nitro”; Local experiments
with apple-trees have corrobor-
ated overseas results in the suc-
cessful nitrogen-fertilising of
trees by leaf-spraying with urea.
A heightened color in naturally
red fruit is another feature.
Citrus-fruit responds most to
nitrogen-fertiliser, but some
doubt exists as to whether
citrus-trees can stand the treat-
ment. Tests in California
showed that application of urea
to citrus-trees causes injury at
high concentrations or at un-
suitable times. Winter applica-
tion at low concentrations gives
some promise.
Wheat-bunt
“Emulgate”: Bunt has re-
appeared in the wheat country,
largely because some growers
have stopped seed-treatment,
being misled into thinking bunt
had disappeared from their pad-
docks. Some, too, can’t stand
using bluestone or mercury-
dusts.
There’s a hexachlorbenzene
compound, proved efficient by
tests, which may replace the old
substances.
An American discovery,
which eliminates the hazard of
dusts, is an improved emulsifi-
cation technique, giving a com-
plete oil solution of organic
compounds hitherto partially or
almost completely insoluble.
A compound now on the
American market (mercusol) is
claimed to control bunt at a
diluting* of ioz. a bushel.
Nasal-fly
“Jumbuck”: Look for it
when a sheep is seen racing
about as though demented. No
insect is more dreaded by sheep,
and I’ve seen sheep die from
the fly’s maggots. Once the
maggots have become estab-
lished in the nasal passages
sheep lose condition rapidly.
The fly deposits its larvae
about the nostrils and the mag-
gots work their way into the
nasal sinuses and exist on the
mucus. On maturity they re
either sneezed out or come out
on their own accord and pupate
in the ground.
m|^ at ” en ‘j* u ®'“ S^ r
much be done to artora im
munity, although if wooden
covers be placed over lick-
troughs, holes bored in them,
tar painted around the holes so
that the sheep get a smearing on
the nose each time they come to
the lick, they should be pro-
tected.
Some sheep, however, object
to the smell of tar just as much
as the fly does, and this method
can’t be rated highly.
Hints For the Farm
“C.A.A.”: Introduce sheep to
stubble gradually, after feeding
them beforehand on their nor-
mal pasture. Otherwise inflam-
mation and scouring may occur
through the too-large intake of
grain, with entero-toxaemia also
in the offing. It is a wise pre-
caution to vaccinate against
e.-t. at least a fortnight before
grazing stubble.
“Rooster”; When whitewash-
ing interiors mix the stuff to an
even consistency. If you can
get skim-milk use it instead of
water. Add about loz. of alum
to a gallon of the mixture to
prevent flaking in hot, dry
weather. Scrape off the old
whitewash. Wash the brush
after use. A dairy needs a
double coat to last a full year.
“Konanda”: Keep to regular
days for watering melons and
the pumpkin family. If they
are watered irregularly it spoils
the shape and possibly holds
back growth.
“C.A.A.”: Be careful with
insecticides near an apiary.
D.D.T. has a particularly high
toxicity—2 p.c. as either spray
or dust will kill bees. Parathion
is almost as dangerous. Be-
cause bees dislike objectionable
matter, if they have been in con-
tact with chemicals they are
cleaned by other bees on return
to the hive, and this will eventu-
ally weaken and destroy the
hive. If hormone-spraying is de-
layed until flowers are bloom-
ing it will also bring disorder to
the hive. A precaution where
hormone-spraying is being done
is that bees should be provided
with ample drinking-water.
“Ninety-nine”: As it is of a
higher food-value for horses
than oats and not quite as palat-
able or as easily digested, barley
is best fed crushed, four parts
of barley replacing five parts
of oats. It should be introduced
gradually into the ration, up to
101 b. per day being then fed,
mixed with bran and chaff.
“Sundowner”: Seeds for
winter and early-spring crops
from January to April are best
sown in flat beds to facilitate
watering and liquid-manuring.
Plants such as cabbage and
sprouts can be moulded up as
they grow.
“Mr.”: A record yield of
43.3 bushels per acre won this
year’s Mallee wheat champion-
ship for J. M, Cooper, NullawiL
Previous record was 42.8
bushels from a crop grown by
A. P. Murray and Sons at
Nullawil in 1950. W. G. Chivell,
of Rosebery, was second, with
39.5 bushels per acre. Third
and fourth places went to W. J.
Mclnerney, Sea Lake, and T. P.
Pearce, Swan Hill. All the
crops were Insignia. Grain from
the champion weighed 681 b. a
bushel and that from the
runner-up 67£lb.
“Tea Tree”: Delphiniums
grow well in sand, but they re-
quire mulching, preferably with
manure, as they have a tendency
to burn-off in the hottest spells.
“Springvale”: Millet and
sorghum can be sown to the end
of January, except in districts
where the soil has insufficient
warmth for successful germina-
tion. No summer forage should
be sown until the soil is warm.
Liberal manuring and irrigation
assists growth. Keep soil
clean, firm, moist and weed-
free.
“Billjim”: A concrete floor
in the poultry-shed reduces risks
of disease, and if an outbreak
does occur such a floor is easily
cleaned and sprayed. Straw or
wood-shavings make an excel-
lent litter on the concrete
maintained at a depth of 4in. to
6in.
“Cock-o’-the-Walk”: Don’t
run Rhode Island Reds with
other heavy breeds. The R.I.R.
is a naturally timid bird, and a
crossbred or black a quarter
their size will bully them. For
some reason the blacks in par-
ticular seem to pick on the
R.I.R. and won’t let them eat.
It’s an aversion I have not seen
among any other birds.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The mid-January rains accorded with the cycle and
relieved some droughty spots, with a promise of more.
The normal tropical rains seem to be somewhat delayed,
possibly because of weak sunspots.
In the Sydney area the moderate rain may be followed
by heavier falls about the end of the month Along the
southern littoral and adjoining areas there is not much
sign of rain except such erratic falls as may be expected
after heat. Some heavy rain may be expected about
February.


mi
mm *
s
: I'.:':
THE GENERAL MOTORS HOUR
“Listening to the General Motors Hour” is already a Wednesday night
habit with hundreds of thousands of appreciative Australians. Drama,
comedy, romance, adventure—all from the pens of the world’s best
playwrights—are presented with topflight casts by noted producer Harry
Dearth. It’s a full hour of the finest dramatic productions in radio—
and one you shouldn’t miss!
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS 8.30 TO 9.30
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL
2LT 2CA 3GV 4GY ' 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
3m ■ MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
JACKSON
OSUIUVAV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers.
ITOAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
. , , c .
{Ji have abov e me, Swannie,
SblaT A* a 1 yOU fl?
ugly little dial and sawn-off
(ength-a pint-sized cobra when
it comes to stoushmg. Quick,
and sudden. Another thought
made him turn his head, to stare
vacantly at the three directors
coming down the deck. What in
hell are blokes like you and me
going to do when we leave afl
this? All we’re good for, all
we’ve ever been good for since
we were thirteen, is killing, or
preparing for it. And that wasn’t
a particularly laudable career
was it? What had Hap said?
“Their wives and kids too ”
And if it weren’t their wives and
kids, soonerior later it would be
our wives and kids. Young
Ventner’s wife. Bereaved as
surely by Gook machine-gunners
as by his actual crash over the
side. But for Gook machine-
gunners and their power-savage
leaders, young Ventrier would
have been comfortably based at
Home—or, more probably,
based in a university college,
Sherwood plucked restlessly at
his chin, his trap of a mouth
drawn into a harsh pucker,
Strange, these thoughts, about
himself and Swannie. He had
never thought them before.
“Well, well,” said Swan, lean-
ing round to peer with mock
seriousness up into his face, “I
hope you’re thinking of our
common foe behind that
thunderous visage.”
Sherwood swung round. He
laughed abruptly.
“Just musing, Swannie.
Dwelling on the crass stupidity
of all this.”
He waved his hand at the
ranks of waiting aircraft.
Swan made to move towards
his Fury. His face was serious,
“You know better than to start
moralising in this game, Dick.
Particularly at the start of what
promises to be a damned heavy
mission. We all feel that way,
sometime or other. And weil
all end up in the same way if we
let it throw us—in the drink,
Come on, feller forget it. You
need all your thinking where
you’re heading.”
Sherwood uttered a short
grunt of a laugh. He clapped
his friend on the shoulder.
“How right you are, Swannie.
So’m I, now. Just a passing
phase. Well, get moving, or
you’ll have Jelly-belly broad-
casting again—especially for you.
Watch yourself, boy.”
Swan nodded and grinned,
“See you in the bar,” he said,
and strode off to his ship.
Leaning back against his
Firefly’s wing, Sherwood watched
Swan clamber on his short legs
on to the buttressed wing of the
snubnosed fighter, take an auto-
matic look at the cleanliness of
his windscreen, then climb in.
Baumer, apparently, had been
waiting for him. Even through
the distortion of the speakers,
Sherwood could detect the ire in
his voice.
“Stand clear of propellers.
Start up! ”
The starting charges exploded,
one after the other, each sharp
crack the child, as ft were, of the
lusty masculine growls into which
each developed as the pilots
revved-up.
Now Sherwood’s vision
forrard was clouded by a fence
of spinning arcs. Swan moved
his throttle. His fighter gave
tongue in a fierce, unbridled
vehemence of declared power.
The loose strap of Sherwood’s
helmet whipped him stingingly
on the cheek. As fie fastened it,
closing his eyes to slits against
the plucking slap of the slip-
stream, Sherwood felt a sudden
surge of elation. The bellowing
roar of the Fury’s disciplined
horses tingled his nerves; he
watched with keen appreciation
as the graceful craft shuddered
against its brakes and chocks.
Suddenly the roar died.
Swan’s propeller became again
visible, swinging in a slow arc.
H& plane moved forward,
drawn by the director’s gestur-
ing hands. At once the next in
line rfevved-up, the same ear-
beating thunder. Then it, too,
moved forward.
There was an air of urgency
about the ship now. This, the
spawning of her termagant
brood, was what she had been
trained for. The efforts of the
whole ship—from the artificers
at her throttles deep in her
fumy vitals, to the helmsman,
keeping her on-course dead into
the wind; from the officer of
the watch, remote from the
flight-deck goings-on, watching
his gyro-compass, to the fire-
fighters waiting, heavily garbed,
near the the island structure;
from the flight-deck officer to
the catapult crew—all were con-
centrated on the prime purpose
of getting One man in a snarling
fighter airborne.
That man, his impish face
now a mask of concentration,
his head pressed back against
the rubber pad, waited. It came,
abruptly—the belt in his spine,
the surge, the flight-deck rush-
ing past in a black streak. Then
waves below him, the horizon
tilting as he banked, the flight-
deck receding swiftly, the whole
ship coming rapidly into focus,
dwindling.
Swan had gained a bare
few hundred feet altitude when
he saw the next bat-winged
shape leap from a stationary air-
craft to a rushing, soaring grace
of motion, its outreaching wings
seeming to sweep the ocean’s
wrinkled face; before it, too,
climbed steeply to meet him.
The combat air-patrol orbited
round the mother 7 ship in a wide,
slow circle. It was unlikely,
here, that Hawk would receive
feathered visitors. ' If she did—
and it was a possibility, lack of
precedent regardless—she would
be ready to receive.
The carrier thrust on, her
bulk parting the watery ridges
with the inevitability of power
derived from the thousands of
boiler-room horses which, con-
stantly born of the fuel-driven
flames wreathing the boiler-
pipes, spun her turbines with a
quiet, giant strength.
Then Baumer’s voice, alert-
ing the loungers waiting on the
flight-deck, closed the ship up
for its main effort—launching
of the heavy-bellied Fireflies,
With the last of his flight air-
borne, clawing for height ahead
of the ship, Sherwood caught
sight of Swan circling to take
up his escort position. Sher-
wood forgot him in the job of
marshalling his bomb-heavy
flock. Then he set course for
Korea, his flight dipping and
rising gently on either side of
him, streamed astern in a
deadly efficient, purposeful
arrowhead.
His hands grasping the edge
of his platform, his head back
so that the folds of his neck
bulged in thick red rings,
Baumer watched them go. The
massed thunder of their engines
started a pulse in his own heart.
For a moment memory ousted
that other consciousness in his
mind and gave him a respite of
normalcy; memory of the
time when he, too, was a nerve-
less machine of perfectly
trained co-ordination. When he
could hurl his aircraft into the
flaring mouths of a battleship’s
desperate guns and release his
tofpedoes so close that they
could not miss ; making, almost,
bombs of them. Then the only
thought in his brain was the
performance of his mission.
There had been, of course, a
subconscious ' awareness of
what he was heading into. But
it was not fear. It was a
tingling, at times exhilarating,
comprehension of the danger he
was in; the danger his skill
and coolness had to circumvent.
The Bismarck Taranto
Malta convoys. He had been
so sure of himself in those days.
Desperate days, with little time
to think. A few hours’ respite
in Malta or Gibraltar, with his
brain drugged with sleep. Then,
at sea again, almost continu-
ously airborne. So it had gone
on, driving his body to the
limits of its endurance.
And then, that day he had
landed-on outside Malta. It
was so obvious now. But not
then —the fact that Lieutenant-
Commander Baumer, D.S.O.
and Bar, the man who had
never missed the third or fourth
wire, could be cracking under
the strain. He would remem-
ber as long as he lived the
frantic desperation which
flooded his brain, when, strive
as he would, he could not
catch; the sudden stark fear
with which he saw the great
steel barrier rushing towards
him; the neck-snapping jolt
when he hit. In the bar, after-
wards, he, they, had laughed
about it. Baumer into the net.
It must have been the night-
before grog, they said. He had
grinned, nodding, and called for
another drink. And had striven
to steady his hand while he
drank. For, inside him, he had,
not the physical fear of another
smash into the net, but the
shaking knowledge that he had,
though perhaps temporarily, lost
his cunning. He could lose it
again. Next time he might
finish up dug deeply into the
bridge structure. Like the
Hurricane he had seen hit, then
dissolve into a wrap of searing,
petrol-driven flame.
The consciousness of that one
failure, in a pilot who had been
bolstering his work-strained
body and mind with his own
egoism of infallibility, was the
beginning of the rot. Gradu-
ally, with each danger-crammed
mission, apprehension had
mounted; swelled till it grew
into fear. His egoism had
driven him, relentlessly, to hide
his cowardice by displays of
courage—extreme courage, fool-
hardy in its extremity. Filled as
he was, every waking moment,
by the consciousness of his
weakness, it had never occurred
to him that he was, because of
his fear, a very brave man.
When his third, commander’s,
ring had been listed in the New
Year’s promotion-list the relief
of the realisation that he would
no longer need to fly had been
so shattering that, in his cabin,
he had sobbed. When he had
recovered, and remembered
what he had done, the cursed
feeling of hatred for his weak-
ness had returned, strengthened
tenfold by his abjectness. So
that the consciousness that he
had felt relief, and why he had
felt it, gave him, in reality, no
relief whatever. He knew for
the rest of his life, more so now
since he would not need to fly,
that he would be acutely aware
of the fact that he had cracked.
Each time, secure in his plat-
form as they flew off, he would
remember why he felt secure.
Living with Sherwood, seeing
his casual efficiency, seeing in
him the Baumer that used to be,
was like holding up to a man a
mirrored reflection of his own
craven soul. Sherwood was a
constant goading reminder of
the dreadful secret Baumer must
for ever be striving to hide
from his shipmates. Small won-
der that he hated him; not
Sherwood, the man —but Sher-
wood, the symbol.
The aircraft were now black
dots, winging into blue infinity.
Soon they would be diving to
destruction. Baumer drew a
shuddering breath and climbed
from his platfonn. He crossed
the bridge quickly, without
speaking, and headed for the
A.D.R. It was dark in there.
Staring, now ahead, now
down at the enamelled blue car-
pet below him, Sherwood sub-
consciously caressed the milled
face of his bomb-release trigger.
He glanced at his watch. They
should sight the coast shortly.
The thought had no sooner
formed than his earphones
crackled,
“Enemy coast ahead, sir,” re-
ported Blake, his voice non-
committal, as though he were
saying “Here’s your cup of tea.
sir.”
“Roger,” answered Sherwood.'
He could see it now, a blur
darker than the sea, with a sug-
gestion of hills in rear. Within
minutes the coastal blur had
hardened into definite beaches,
long golden scallops fringing
the wooded backdrop of hills.
The white lace of surf rushed
towards them, then was under
and astern. Sherwood flicked
his safety-catch off. His finger
rested lightly on the dual gun-
and bomb-trigger.
A quick glance at the Fury
flight above and to starb’d and
he put his nose down in a shal-
low dive. They had come in
south of the Han River mouth,
below the sluice-gates. He was
at six-thousand feet when he
caught sight of the river, a
muddy brown sliver lying
twistedly in the valley.
It was a perfect landfall.
Sherwood led his flight over the
river, then banked towards the
lower dam. Keeping his eye on
his target, he spoke into his
micronhone.
“Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader. Down you go. Over.”
The answer came immedi-
ately.
“Strike Leader, this is Escort
Leader. Wilco. Out.”
The fighters were now flying
in line-abreast, one beside the
other, stretched out in a dip-
ping line from Swan. His plane
tilted on its port wing, fell
gracefully away towards the
dam. In smooth succession the
others followed ; and fell head-
long out of the sky upon the
target.
{To be continued next week)


The Best Science Fiction Stories
3rd Series, edited by E. F. Bleiler and
T. E. Dikty—first-rate stories by some
of the best writers of science fiction.
12/- (post 9d.)
Great Stories of Science Fiction
edited by Murray Leinster —13 stories
based on present scientific knowledge,
by notable authors.
18/9 (post lid.)
The Adventure of Space Travel
by G. V. E. Thompson —a scientific
review of achievements and possibilities
in interplanetary travel. Illustrated.
15/9 (post 9d.)
Man on the Moon
edited by Cornelius Ryan—an authori-
tative, scientific book answering ques-
tions on travel to the moon. Illustrated.
41/6 (post lid.)
Write, ’phone or call in for new books of science fiction . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 -95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
THE SELECTED NOVELS OF
W. SOMERSET MAUGHAM
in 3 volumes 18/9 each
London Novels.
Liza of Lambeth
Cakes and Ale
Theatre
VOL. II
Novels of the East.
The Moon and Sixpence
The Painted Veil
The Narrow Comer
VOL. 11l
Cosmopolitan Novels.
Christmas Holiday
The Razor’s Edge
Up at the Villa
The above are uniform in every way
with the 3 volume editions of his Plays and Short Stories.
At all booksellers
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :! MELBOURNE s: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
Crosby standing alongside singing, bid
well;
Even at this point I’d worked up a way
of singing that people were calling
“individual.” At times I used a kazoo,
sticking it into a tin-can and moving it
in and out to get a trombone effect m a
trick I lifted from the Mound City Blues.
It gave out a wah-wahing sound I thought
jazzy . . .
They were then booked over the whole
circuit of 35 or 40 coast and north-west
theatres, and played it two or three times ,
then they got into the “Morrisey Music-
hall Revue,” and, playing in San Fran-
cisco, grew friendly with Hearst’s son,
Bill, who used to come over with the
university crowd for the midnight show.
The whole company, chorus girls and all,
were invited to perform at the University
of California. There was a wash-tub full
of gin, and the chorus girls “thought they
were drinking punch” ; so that when it
went on, at 2.30 a.m.,
our show bordered on the, shall we say,
outre . , . The show closed shortly after-
wards.
Almost from their first appearance in
Los Angeles, Crosby and Rinker’s act
had been making between 250 and 300
ollars a week. In 1927, two years after
ieir arrival, Paul Whiteman saw them
i a stage turn in a Los Angeles picture-
leatre, ahd booked them as a smging-
nd-piano novelty act with his baud:
To A 1 Rinker and me it seemed incred-
ible that Paul Whiteman —a mao, who,
in 1927, stood out above other American
bandleaders as Mount Everest stands out
above other mountains —thought us good
enough to appear with his band.
At stops on the way to New York,
udiences seemed to agree with White-
mn; but New York audiences were
tore of Crosby and Rinker’s opinion—it
as incredible:
With the same songs, sung the same
way, we died.
Whiteman sent them out front to enter-
un the overflow ; he let Crosby operate
le curtains in his own Broadway night-
lub ; worked the Crosby-Rinker act into
is recordings and gave Crosby the solos,
01’ Man River” and “Make Believe” in
is recording of the “Show Boat ’ score:
Those solos stirred up some interest
and Pops [Whiteman] gave me more of
them. But I didn’t have a solo with the
band on stage.
But by this time Crosby was well on
le way up —and feeling his oats. He
lissed engagements to play golf he fre-
uented speakeasies ; he woke from one
eavy celebration to find himself among
party of New York gangsters “holed
ip,” and adjourned to the bathroom.
There he heard the gangsters scream as
the door was shot open and the living-
room sprayed with lead. In Hollywood
to help make Whiteman’s “King of Jazz,
Crosby was taking a young lady home
after a party when his car got into a col-
lision. The police took in both drivers ;
Crosby was’ charged with “reckless driv-
ing and suspicion of drinking.” He ad-
mitted to a Judge who, no one had
warned him, was an ardent prohibitionist,
that he had “had a couple” ; and was
sentenced to 60 days’ jail without the
option of a fine.
John Boles got his solo, “The Song of
Dawn” in “King of Jazz,” but as White-
man couldn’t get a substitute, the police
let Crosby out once a day in the custody
of an officer to make a group-number,
“A Bench in the Park.”
The long-suffering Whiteman parted
company with Crosby shortly after this,
and Crosby went back to cafe-singing,
and made some shorts with Mack Sen-
nett :
The way we made the Sennett shorts
reads like a quaint piece of Americana....
For our plot we’d start with a very social
mother and daughter. I’d be a band-
crooner with a bad reputation, and Mother
didn’t think me quite right for her
daughter. Once we had this nugget of
plot, Sennett would start “writing.” He
put down nothing on paper. His story
was really a series of gags. Sennett would
tell me, “This is the scene where you call
on the girl, and you know her mother
doesn’t like you, and you’re talking to the
girl and her mother comes in and dis-
covers you and tells you to leave the
house, you louse, she doesn’t want to ever
see you again. So you go out, and on the
way out, you step into the laundry-
basket, and you get up with the laundry
hanging all oyer you, and you make an
ignominious exit.”
“When do I exit?” I’d ask.
“When I drop my handkerchief,” he’d
say. He’d call, “Camera!” and we were
off.
Early in 1931 brother Everett Crosby
went with him to New York and sold
Bing to Columbia Broadcasting Service ;
soon he was doing five or six shows a
day, and singing in night-clubs “over a
sixteen-hour stretch”:
I began to sound like Andy Devine
with lobar-pneumonia singing “Chloe.”
The specialist diagnosed nodes —cal-
luses resembling warts —on the vocal
chords. After two weeks’ rest Crosby’s
voice came back, but a tone or two lower
than before.
Here it would seem proper to insert
the Crosby philosophy of his success as
a singer:
I think —and I’m confident that my
assumption is correct —that every man
who sees one of my movies or listens to
my records or who hears me on the radio
believes firmly that he sings as well as I
do, especially when he’s in the bathroom-
shower. It’s no trick for him to believe
this, because I have none of the manner-
isms of a trained singer and I have very
little voice. If I’ve achieved any success
as a warbler it’s because I’ve managed
to keep the kind of naturalness in my
style, my phrasing and my mannerisms
which any Joe Doakes possesses.
The book goes on, very entertainingly,
to tell Crosby’s best stories about his
friends, the incredible pranks Venuti
played on the long-suffering Whiteman;
the dilatoriness of Bill Morrow, Crosby’s
radio-script-writer and boon-companion
and hts lordly ways with travellers’ lug-
gage ; the unspeakable Bob Hope, whom
he .first met on stage in New York in
the early ’thirties; the amazing methods
of Marion Davies on the film-set, during
the making of “Going Hollywood,”
which featured Crosby in “Temptation”
and gave him his first big film success—
an orchestra in constant attendance, a
luncheon fit for gourmets; no scene shot
until five o’clock; home at six, and
Hearst to pay the bills.
There is his immense praise of Carole
Lombard, who swore so sincerely that
workers forgot her sex and her beauty
and considered her only as a good com-
panion. There is constant preoccupation
with Dixie Lee who gave up a brilliant
future as a film-star to marry him. There
are introductions to his sons, discussions
of their good and bad points, and hopes
for their future. He tells us of his racing
experiences, and how it feels to own race-
courses; and how he thought he ought
to have shares in his recording-com-
pany, Decca, and dropped 200,000 dol-
lars on the deal; how he finally rebelled
against having his lop-ears pinned back
for films; how he hunts, fishes, shoots,
ranches . . .
He is an American institution; and it
seems less likely that the average
American thinks he can sing as well as
Crosby ton that he sees a little of him-
self m Crosby. Crosby s singing has,
besides a certain amused humor, the
transparent simplicity of great art; while
m private life, for an actor, he is honest.
Where you find honesty you are likely
enough to find dignity—the more in the
surprisingly candid photograph of the
ageing singer with Rosemary Clooney
(opposite page 224) than m the high-class
artistic drawing on the frontispiece.
Reviewed Briefly
. _ . „ , ' x
Au Petit Cordon Bleu: Diana Luca
and Rosemary Hume (Dent). A new
and revised edition of a well-known cook-
ery-book, reyea mg the secrets of
Parisian cooking”; a very luscious piece
of reading.
♦ * * *
Latest addition to Hodge’s Notable
British Trials series is The Trial of
Jeannie Donald, edited by J. G. Wilson,
In Aberdeen in 1934, Mrs. Donald slew
a small girl by shaking her by the throat;
she was convicted of murder and, re-
prieved, served a life-sentence as an ex-
emplary prisoner. It is thought that if she
had not confused the issue by lying to the
police she might well have been acquit-
ted, the child having some structural
weakness of the throat.
# m
Mr. Pye: Mervyn Peak© (Heme-
mann). Occasionally, by some particu-
larly happy conjunction of stars, a first-
rate black-and-white illustrator can also
write very well. Mervyn Peake, well-
known as an experimenter in both literary
and black-and-white media, here pre-
sents a delicately ironic account of the
consequences of a genial reformer’s ef-
forts on behalf of a small Channel Island
populated, usually, by British locals with
French names and ancestry, retired, eld-
erly people, holiday-makers and painters.
Mr. Pye brings the message of the
“Great Pal” to Sark, with such beaming
humility that his goodness disarms some
varied characters in very varied ways.
And then a terrible thing happens to this
saintly man —his goodness, in a most ap-
propriate manner, becomes an embarrass-
ment to him in the form of certain angelic
attributes which he well —sprouts.
Therefore, he endeavors to be wicked to
rid himself of these encumbrances he
enlists the aid not only of the local and
most delicious Jezebel, but also of a
goat and of witchcraft, resulting in an-
other surprising physical change,
• ♦ • ♦
Wombat: C. K. Thompson (Dymock’s).
Like Chinese food, in which everything
from bamboo-shoots to an old boot may
be concealed, this book for boys is a
strange mixture of wombats, lizards,
Chinese market-gardeners, .small boys
and thieves: having to do with a
mysterious yellow box, stolen from the
Chinese, which finds its way into a
wombat-burrow. It makes quite a good
adventure-yam with a pleasantly realistic
bushland setting.
• * ♦ *
Himmler: Willi Frischauer (Odhams).
Mr. Frischauer did a good journalistic
biography of Goring a while ago and
does-over the present unpleasant character
equally satisfactorily. Necessarily it is a
recital of horrors —the stories of the
medical “experiments” and mass-exter-
minations, fully documented and proven
as they are, remain incredible to the
civilised mind —and about the only cheer-
ful part of it, if that is the right adjective,
is the conclusion when Himmler dies his
miserable death by poison and is buried
in an unknown grave by Edwin Austin,
“a burly sergeant-major from the London
suburb of Barnes,” who, in civilian life,
had been a dustman.
BAILER SHELL
ẁ
ẃ
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 262
Across
I—He is absolutely made of money,
though a military nonentity. (8)
s—Out of bed and drunk as a result.
(6)
0 — Proceed against a little devil
apiece. (7)
1 — Asset concealed by a girl. (5)
12 —Dry as tangled sail-supporters
with distances in enclosures. (5)
.3—But do they give a punishment to
the pupil? (3-6)
14 — Tour during military annihila-
tion. (4)
15— Something more than a general
bay from the debtors’ prison of
Little Dorrit, which spoils an
old master with vowels. (10)
19— Vitality lodges in the instrument
panels. (10)
20— A good old gossip for influential
Moslems. (4)
22—Six and three together, plus 51
and 100, are all scathing. (9)
25—From the dark continent poet’s
manner of mentioning it. (5)
27 — Cotton town offers comfort for
the bald one with a wing broken.
(5)
28 — Play people previously in the van
moved the king and the rook in
the unconditioned Chateau d’lf.
(?)
29 — Pump is characteristic of what
surrounds the Eiffel Tower with
aspiration. (6)
30— Duck to behold the floor-
covering man with a mission. (8)
Down
1 — Who was offered a tandem
honeymoon and is in all day?
(5)
2 Punches superior shots behind
point. (9)
3 A bronco seen about a descrip-
tion of those with bronchitis. (6)
4 Company upset her badly, but
there’s no loss of color. (5)
6 Vegetarian playwright surrounded
by an item of his diet not far
from the Khyber Pass. (8)
7 Erica Macbeth’s first scene occurs
on it. (5)
8 — Main salts used for preserving
charms. (9)
9 The sweets are upset when
emphasised. (8)
14 —Again foster the growth of a
Communist eater of the apple
and prune. (9)
16— Miss Gardner and Yours Truly
fish, it all being of value. (8)
17 — Argus changed the gage for the
fairy in a Tschaikovsky ballet.
(9)
18—Cuts short a long-lived predeces-
sor of Masefield as Poet
Laureate. (8)
21 —He isn’t as free as the steamer
seen in a South African river. (6)
23 — What tows a skyscraper? (5)
24 Bill passed into 101 features of
the Arizona landscape. (5)
26 —Trainee bounder had a meal by
the sound of it. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 261


N.S.W.: Moft'at-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE Uimite d
January
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
19M
“DO NOT OPEN CLOSE TO
NAKED FLAME!”...
It s a familiar enough warning ... You see it on bottles and cans which contain anything
highly inflammable or explosive. We know these warnings should be taken seriously, for
hardly a week goes by that we don’t read about someone who’s been careless or clumsy
—with disastrous results!
But many people, even though they need not
do so, daily take a calculated risk in continu-
ing to use such old-fashioned means of light-
ing as pressure-lamps, oil or spirit lamps.
Dirty, inconvenient and potentially dangerous,
“naked flame” lamps have no features which
really recommend them for use inside the
home. For the sake of eyes of themselves
and their children, and because of all the
other amenities which their ownership permits,
more and more people everywhere are installing
modern Light and Power Plants.
Ihe easy terms on which a Moffat-Virtue
Plant can be purchased, and the low cost of
operating it (just a few shillings a week)
makes owning a lighting plant an economical
proposition and a wise investment in comfort-
able living.
Moffat-Virtue wants the Country Dweller to
realise how much extra comfort and leisure
electricity makes possible. We urge you to
find out for yourself how easy it is to become
the happy owner of a Moffat-Virtue Light
and Power Plant.
You can obtain further particulars, to-
gether with details of Moffat-Virtue’s
low-deposit, easy-payment plan if re-
quired, from any one of the State
Distributors listed across the foot of
this page.
An Overturned Lamp
May Have Caused
This Blaze!
A burning Oil -lamp on the table
—a careless knock, and in a
few seconds a timber-frame
home like this is a roaring
inferno. Yes, a fire often starts
that easily, and ends that tragi-
cally. in Country Districts,
where there’s little chance of a
fire-brigade getting to the scene
in time, the fire hazard from
using naked lights is doubly
perilous.
HOW YOU CAN HAVE THE KIND OF
COMFORT YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED
More and more country housewives, living far beyond the reach of the powe
lines, are discovering how to enjoy u City-Life” comfort in their homes with tl
aid of a Lighting Plant.
It is not an exaggeration to say that the advent
of the small, economical Lighting and Power
Plant has proved a tremendous boon to
Country living .... for through it Country-
dwellers are now able to obtain the benefits
of almost every modern electrical horn
appliance available to those in the cities.
You need no longer day-dream about tl
luxury of owning an electric iron, toaste
vacuum cleaner, kitchen-mixer, radio, fan
etc. ... as well as having bright electric ligf
everywhere at the snap of a switch.
Moffat-Virtue Lighting Plants are availabl
in a range to suit small and large users o
power, and to provide it economically. Man
people are surprised to learn the proven fac
that M.V. Plants can be operated at a lowe
unit power cost than is charged by the supplier
of “bulk” power in many areas! Consider®
their usefulness, their dependability and then
economy, it is no wonder that Moffat-Virtu*
Lighting Plants grow more popular ever)
year.
PRECISION ENGINEERING
MEANS DEPENDABILITY
Moffat-Virtue’s superior design, skilled precision engineering,
and careful testing and checking during the processes of
manufacture were found to produce the best lighting plant
obtainable.
Proof, their quality is their record of service with the Australian
Military Forces. No conditions proved too rigorous for a
Moffat-Virtue Plant!
Illustrated at left is the M.V. “Type K. 8.” 32/45 volt
1000 watt Lighting Plant, especially suited to the needs
of the average home. It’s powered by the famous Moffat -
Virtue “V 3” 3 h.p. Petrol Engine.
In addition, a full range of plants is available in 50 and
110 volt models, of both Petrol and Diesel operated
types.
