

HE H 0 U
t
E P P E LT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“ PRINCESS AND PEASANT ,r — PAGE 20
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3904
Wednesday, December 8, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
CHIRK’S SCARS HAVE HEALED UNDER TIME’S BENINGN HAND
CHIRK Castle, an outstanding example of an Edwardian border fortress,
stands on the summit of a hill overlooking the Vale of Ceiriog in
Denbighshire, seven miles from Llangollen, in Wales. The main structure
of the castle remains almost exactly as it was built in 1300 and it has been
continuously inhabited for over 650 years; since 1595 it has been the home
of the Myddelton family.
The fortress was built by Roger Mortimer, who was granted the Lordship
of Chirk in 1282 by Edward I. He chose the site which overlooked the
scene in 1165 of the Battle of Crogen, when the Welsh defeated Henry IPs
attempted invasion of Wales by that route. Mortimer ended his days in the
Tower of London in 1326. His nephew and namesake, who was confined with
him, managed to escape and after a brief period as Earl of March and paramour
of the Queen, died a traitor’s death in 1330.
During the next 250 years Chirk was the stronghold of several powerful
families bearing such famous names as Howard, Mowbray and Nevill. In
the reign of Queen Elizabeth I the Chirk estate was granted by the Queen
to her favorite, the Earl of Leicester. Later it was bought by Sir Thomas
Mydddton, celebrated merchant adventurer, Lord Mayor of London and a
friend of Sir Walter Raleigh.
At the outbreak of the Civil War his son took up arms against the King.
The castle was seized by the Royalists and later besieged by Cromwell, whose
artillery did great damage to the structure; the cost of repair after the
Restoration amounted to £30,000. The building is square in form with
corner and intermediate drum towers and the massive curtain wall on the
north side is fifteen feet thick. The gateway opens on a quadrangular
courtyard.
Extensive restorations were carried out within the castle during the 17th
and 18th centuries and evidence of this work can be seen in the magnificent
State Rooms. Particularly noteworthy is the richly panelled Long Gallery
and the Saloon hung with Mortlake tapestries. In these and other reception
rooms hang interesting portraits, among which is one of Nell Gwynn and
another of Charles I, who was a guest at Chirk when the castle was in
Royalist hands. The bed he slept in can be seen by visitors and also the
jackboots worn by Cromwell, and an ebony cabinet, presented by Charles II
to Sir Thomas Myddelton, which stands in the Long Gallery.


FRENCH READERS
Write today for details of new
monthly selection of French
books—another of our services
to Australasian booklovers.
THE WAKELYS
G.P.O. Box 2656, Auckland, CJI, N*Z.
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. Quick service moderate charges.
The Red Page
TURKEY CREEK
Merely in the name of “Turkey
Creek” there is the warm breath of the
outback; and of course the same authen-
tic flavor is in what lon Idriess writes
about that and other places in The Nor’-
Westers (Angus and Robertson).
Turkey Creek is a hamlet in the far
East Kimberleys between Hall’s Creek
and Wyndham. It was there, when
Idriess knew it, that three white women
represented the graces of civilisation
while the village gradually changed its
role from a stopping-place for gold-
diggers on their way to Hall’s Creek, to
a camping-place for drovers, teamsters
and Afghan camel-men and finally to a
police-outpost. It was there, in the
near-by Osman Range, that the aboriginal
outlaw Major had his hideout; and it
was there that Constable Tony Jones
heard the sound of horse-bells in the
bush and found, still alive but hardly
more than a skeleton, a man named
McMillan:
He was camped on a creek that luckily
held a little water. Six weeks earlier his
horse had thrown him and broken his
thigh.
There is a lot in The Nor’-Westers that
is pretty thin stuff. To begin with, there
is a misleading dust-jacket showing an
aborigine about to be devoured by a
shark the size of a whale ; and, though
Idriess does tell the story of Treacle of
Thursday Island who got his head safely
in and out of a tiger-shark’s mouth (one
has heard the yarn before), most of the
book is set on dry land —very dry indeed.
A chapter of musings on an insect and
infinity would need to have been done
by a better writer; and a chapter on
alleged aboriginal humor, based on little
mistakes with the language, is so exceed-
ingly thin that one’s aimless smile, like
the one T. S. Eliot borrowed from the
Cheshire cat, merely “hovers in the air,
and vanishes along the levels of the
roofs.”
Other chapters, if not wholly so
empty, have a good many bare patches ;
and, stringing together a casual selection
of yarns about Broome and the Kimber-
leys (like Bulletin “Aboriginalities”
paragraphs that have not had the benefit
of the sub-editor), Idriess may be said to
have fulfilled his intention to write a
“lazy” book rather too successfully.
But his authenticity of touch, his
knowledge of the outback so assured and
deeply ingrained that whether he is relat-
ing his own experiences or re-telling
other men’s yarns everything reads like
his own material, does in a measure
redeem the thinness. It is always a bush-
man talking.
And if some of the book is rubble,
a great deal, in specks or in nuggets, is
genuine rough gold. Like the hoard of
gold, for instance, that Mrs. Thompson
showed him long ago at Ebagoolah,
down the peninsula south of Cape
York, “just bush, creeks and gullies,
rocky outcrops and hilltops.” Mrs.
Thompson, who had a pack-horse team
and a store, bought gold from the
fossickers and apparently thought an
old iron safe in a room at the back of
the kitchen was a more secure place than
a bank to keep it in. She showed it, on
an impulse, -to Idriess and his mate:
In the mildewed silence she leant across
the table. She must have found pleasure
hr our astounded faces as we stared at that
gold. Gold! Gold! Gold! Dull yellow gold,
bright yellow gold, reddish gold; white gold
betraying its silver content ; brick-red gold;
fine gold, like a tin of golden powder, up to
tins filled with shotty gold; tins of penny-
weights... .little bars of rich yellow gold.
We really thought we could see no more.
But again she went to the safe and this time
laid nuggets on the table. Great big things
like massive potatoes, heavy nuggets of
gold, some partly filmed with ironstone,
dull heavy nuggets of gold.
There are yams of a cockatoo that
rode a camel; of a man mixing a damper
in his mate’s shoulder-blades when
a willy-willy had blown their dish away;
of the old fossicker whose first thought
when he struck it rich was to buy him-
self a pair of socks, a luxury previously
unknown to him ; of pearlers swimming
for miles after shipwreck; of horses
with walkabout-disease ; of a “snow” of
spiders and plagues of rats; of the
hardships of pioneer women and their
alarms from the aborigines ; of the multi-
farious uses of spinifex; of a man and
a snake down a well; of a cattle-camp
in the Kimberleys (a nice bit of atmo-
sphere here), and of travels with an out-
back mailman.... all pleasant to listen
to, and the stuff of folk-lore and legend.
The book opens with a full-length
short-story, presumably based on fact,
about three aborigines who escaped from
jail in Broome and tried to get to Derby
by clinging to the rudder of a steamer,
the Bambra, which they had observed
high out of water at low-tide and which
they did not realise would give them so
wild and perilous a ride. Two were
drowned on the journey and the third
only made port because his numbed
hands were locked so firmly round a
bar above the rudder that he could not
have loosened them if he had tried. The
writing may not be of the highest liter-
ary quality but the dramatic story is told
with a vividness that shows how very
good Idriess can be at his best. Makers
of anthologies any time in the next fifty
years should have a look at it.
Theodore's Mine
Born in Wandiligong in the Ovens
Valley, Victoria, John A. Fraser spent his
childhood watching his father get the
gold out of prospectors’ quartz in a
battery inherited from his father ; and,
with time off for World War I, spent his
life prospecting and dredging for gold
among the Australian Alps ; but the main
interest of his book, Gold Dish and Kava
Bowl (Dent), is its account of the pros-
pecting in Fiji which made the fortune of
that extraordinary politician and business-
man, E. G. Theodore.
In 1933 Fraser was enlisted by an
old mining-mate to go to Fiji. The party
of six mining-experts were met at Suva
by the former Queenslander Pat Costello,
who had done well in business in Fiji,
and his friend E. G. Theodore. Theodore
and Costello cut short their demand for
time to buy a camp-stove, and hurried
them off to the mine, seven miles by
Indian horse further on from Tavua ; and
at the camp "Theodore and Costello
showed them with considerable pride a
completely-equipped hut with kitchen
and mess-room: soap, towels, blankets,
straw-hats, mosquito-nets . . . The
former Labor leader made a good
employer.
The field had been found by a C.S.R.
cattle-buyer, Jack Sinclair, and a 72-year-
old Scot, William Borthwick, who had
left the sea to prospect in Queensland,
become a hand on the Costello family’s
station in Queensland, and had left with
some of the Costello family when they
went to settle in Fiji in 1907. Sinclair and
Borthwick met on Costello’s cattle-ranch
in Fiji, went prospecting, and struck it
rich on a hillside above the Vunisina.
Borthwick told Costello ; Costello sent
samples to Theodore, “who had the
knowledge of mining and the command
of capital necessary in large-scale mining
operations.”
Theodore helped with the learning,
“and I was not surprised to find that he
could handle a gold-dish and that he had
a sound knowledge of mining.” In the
conversations that followed the evening
meal, Theodore found that he, Costello
and the engineer were doing all the talk-
ing, and protested. The miners’ manager
said, “Well, I’ve hardly enough form to
compete with you.”
“That excuse won’t go down,” Theodore
said. “I propose that each of us shall hold
the floor for, say, fifteen minutes; and that
he’ll see that he has something to tell us
worth listening to. Everybody here has
had a good deal of variety of scene and
interests in his life, and an exchange of
ideas will be good for all of us,”
Theodore was probably the only man
during R. G. Menzies’s Parliamentary
lifetime who could have matched him for
wit, suavity and purity in public-speak-
ing ; there is something rather charming
in this story.
The account goes on to the develop-
ment of the Emperor mine, and then
the acquisition of the Loloma lease, on
the north of the Costello claim, pegged
out by a Suva hotelkeeper, who sold it
for £2O to Bill Lawler, a young Cockney,
who sold out to the Theodore interests
for £lO,OOO and a 15 per cent, interest in
the company to be formed to work it.
Lawler was thus able to make good his
comic boast to his parents as they saw
him off in search of his fortune:
When I left home and my folks were
* seeing me off I said I’d be back with a
fortune. We all laughed at my little joke
when I told them I’d take a suite at the
Savoy and entertain them like a lord.
He is said to have made £BO,OOO from
his £2O investment.
These details have been panned-out
from a rich soil of observations of Fijian
village-customs; amusing contretemps
with Fijians who helped in the mining ;
birds and animals; disquisitions on
mining-methods and later searches in the
islands for goldmines.
John Fraser served in World War II
with an anti-aircraft battery in the Middle
East and New Guinea. He died in 1946 ;
and his book has been edited by Terence
O’Brien from manuscript sent by Fraser s
sister. With 17 illustrations from photo-
graphs and endpaper maps.
The Other Montgomery
When the British Army wanted General
Montgomery to be seen in Gibraltar and
the Middle East while he was directing
the D-day landings on Normandy
beaches. Colonel David Niven, of the
Army Kinematograph section, rang the
son of a former Chief Justice of Western
Australia, Lieutenant Clifton James of
the Army Pay Corps at Leicester.
In I Was Monty’s Double (Rider), Mr.
James explains how, a professional actor
for 25 years, he had been pictured in a
London paper after he brought the house
down by walking-on as “Monty” in an
Army show ; how an offer of a part in
an Army film followed Colonel Niven’s
phone-call, and how he was handed over
to Colonel Lester of Ml 5, the Army In-
telligence Department, and made an
intelligence-sergeant so that he could
become one of the “Corps de Ballet,” the
train of cars that accompanied Mont-
gomery on his tours and inspections of
invasion-preparations.
He was allowed only one interview
with the General, having to perfect his
part in a few weeks ; and Colonel Lester
was taking him through his last rehearsal
—arrival at plane in car, greetings,
inspection, emplanement—in his office ;
and they had got as far as the landing at
Gibraltar, and were mounting the steps
of Gibraltar’s Government House, with
Clifton James greeting Montgomery’s old
Sandhurst friend, the Governor, as
“Rusty,” when Stephen Watts, who was
watching the rehearsal, said;
“Good Lord! Your right hand!”
All eyes turned on my hand which had
been badly damaged in the First World
War. The middle finger was missing, and
within twenty-four hours I was to be
General Montgomery, who seldom wore
gloves.
An artificial finger having been fitted,
it occurred to Mr. James, fretting over
points he may have missed, to wonder
whether Montgomery had any food-fads.
Colonel Lester immediately visited the
General:
“When James impersonates you he’ll
have to eat just what you do. Are there
any peculiarities in your diet?”
“Certainly not. I don’t eat meat, 1 don’t
eat fish, and I take no milk or sugar with
my porridge. That’s all.”
The complete success of his impersona-
tion in Gibraltar and Algiers makes a
good story ; but better still is his account
of the effects of it on himself. For him,
a humble lieutenant, to hobnob with top-
Brass and call Generals and Governors by
their nicknames required a kind of hop-
ping-up of the will equivalent to the self-
deception, almost, of the lunatic. As they
were about to make a fresh landing in the
Middle East, Brigadier Heywood, who
was accompanying him round as a kind
of unseen manager, said:
“All ready, Jimmy ; how are the nerves?”
In the 1 precise Monty tone I snapped:
“Nerves, Heywood? Don’t talk rot!”
“Sorry, sir,” he replied with a perfectly
straight face.
In a moment I realised how rude I had
been and I began to apologise.
“It’s extraordinary,” I said. “Usually
when an actor goes off the stage he at once
drops the part he’s playing, but with me
it’s the other way round. I can’t get out
of it ”
(He should have seen some of the old
Sydney actors when they got their first
jobs on stage after the depression. On
stage or in the street, nothing would part
them from those parts.)
The other occasion was in Algiers, only
a little before D-day set him free in Cairo ;
he was billeted in a villa with a foul-
mouthed grey parrot, and in exaspera-
tion snapped at it:
“Don’t you talk to me like that. I’m
Monty.”
Lizzie gave a hideous squawk.
“Monty,” I hissed, bending down close
to the cage. “Do you hear? Monty!”
The bird stood motionless with her eyes
glittering. Without warning she let out a
piercing whistle which increased the throb-
bing in my head. I made for the door.
Just as I was going out Lizzie screamed
again, and then that miserable bird began
to shriek “Monty!”
What a stroke of genius that scene
would seem in a play: the man with the
taut nerves breaking-down with an asser-
tion of power he knew he was only imitat-
ing—and then the ironic and frightening
commentary of the bird! Not everyone
would have had the nerve to remember
it; but it is one of the little touches that
make this a good book.
With, of course, pictures of the two
Montys.
Latest Fontana Books
The latest batch of Fontana Books
(Collins) includes Peter Cheyney’s first
Lemmy Caution novel, This Man Is
Dangerous, in which the hero is involved
with an American gang of international
kidnappers. In addition to the usual
Cheyney quality of tough humor, pace
and action there is the additional surprise,
for readers who have not read the first
Lemmy Caution book, .of discovering
how that character first made his
appearance. Murder in Moscow by
Andrew Garve is more orthodox in its
detection methods if less so in its
setting—the murder victim is the clerical
leader of a peace deputation, and the
narrator - detective, an anti - Communist
foreign correspondent, gets in some nice
satirical touches.
Nigel Balcbin’s Darkness Falls From
the Air is his earliest fictional success.
Set in London during the earliest days
of the blitz it is interesting in itself as an
unusual love-story and character-study,
and additionally interesting to admirers of
Balchin for containing most of the
machinery which he learned to use so
much better later, in his better-known
books.
Through the Valley by Robert
Henriques is the most substantial book
in the batch both in fact and content.
This long book, which won the James
Tail Black Memorial Prize on its publi-
cation, traces the history of a land-
owning family in the Cotswolds, their
tenants, friends and acquaintances from
1926 to 1948, being almost Galsworthian
in its Iscope if not in its manner. Although
not entirely successful—the characterisa-
tion falls apart and lacks conviction in
the central sections — Through the Valley
is fine entertainment and historically
interesting.
It is unfortunate that reprints of the
quality of this series are still marred by
printing errors and covers which do not
survive one reading.
...
Landscape With Figures : Catriona
Anderson (Werner Laune) There is an
unusual flavor about this story of a small
««stal vUtege in Scotland. Rozanne
LindoreClhe herome, is a gtrl of about
seventeen, just home from school and
lacking any definite ambitions for her
futureT Her vague and slightly eccentric
‘°
her widowhood during Rozanne s
infancy Mrs. Lindores has concentrated
more on her garden and on spasmodic
“good works” than on any outside reali-
ties. Into this early springtime season
comes Beil Raeburn, son of a neighbor,
and, in the ardors of an affair with him,
Rozanne lets time slip by. This romance
heightens and quickens dormant village
gossip, and, at last, half-guessed scandal
from the past is revealed. The author
handles her theme and her characters
beautifully-pshe has a flair for reproduc-
mg dialect, and failure to grasp an occas-
ional meaning does not detract from the
pleasure of reading the speech, or from
the enjoyment of some quiet humor ans-
ing from the characters themselves. The
landscape, too, is described with loving
exactitude—as an integral part of the
tale, rather than, as in too many regional
novels, merely as a quaint background.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: In view of the increasing
interest in Aussie folk-ballads, I
wonder if I’ve unearthed one. Years
ago j remember the Dad singing to me,
bis repertoire including something
about:
He’d eat a hundred times a day
But toame ** could*
That hungry man from Queensland,
reme mber much of it, but my
ticular delight was; _
* And he i d eat mutton pi-i-es
That were chockful of fli-i-i-es (fortissimo)
(Con brio)
That hungry man from Queensland.
. . f , . ~
It was my piping rendition of this at all
sor ts of inappropriate times and places
t^at usec j to bring down Mother’s wrath
upon my hapless head As I don't
suspect the Dad of making it up, 15 “
some hitherto unknown Queensland folk-
song? Anyone else know it?


They’re just what he’s been crying for!
"When a baby cries, you must lullabyse.” That’s an old saying many people have sung themselves
hoarse trying to prove ! No baby cries when he’s comfortable and happy in our Nursery
Furniture, because we love babies and do our utmost to make them comfortable .
534 Stork Cane Pram. Hand'woven pith cane. In
cream. Padded back. Well sprung. Loose cushion.
Shopping basket. Sun visor. Priced at only £2O/9/6
£<<B2s
TX'-C
■ 5
mm
■X' - >••
«■>*
-
<••• <• • ''•■y >;•
ss
6 Bassinette. Hand woven from pith cane. Very
pliable. Two handles for carrying. Ideal for use in a
car. Priced at £2/17/6
139 Pram. Covered with “nylex” hide. Can be used as
car bassinette, as body is easily lifted from chassis. Handle
easily folds. Green, burgundy, blue, grey. Price £l9/6/8
4ft x. 3ft. Play Pen. Solidly constructed from fin.
dowelling. Easily folded for storage. At £2/16/9.
Masonite Floor to fit Pen. Priced at only £l/11/3
'&r.
m
mmmmm
%t, M $ mmMy mMmx
W&ffii ' WM & '
’
High Chair. Chrome plated. Comfortable Dunlopillo
seat. Strong Formica tray. The whole is upholstered in
washable plastic, with nursery pattern on seat, back. £9/9/-
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. Cot. Selected timber. Single drop
side. >2'ply woven wire attached. Light oak. £9/11 A.
Innerspring mattress, £B/1/'. Fibre mattress, £3/3/9
Store opens at 8»30 a.tn. every day!
Every day we serve breakfast (Mondays to Fridays). Bring the children to our Special
Christmas Attractions. Santa is on our 2nd Floor. We have a free Puppet Show, too!
XkeTM .<N- ADVATIS;Ko.
nthonj Horderns’
ţ
NURSERY FURNITURE, 4TH FLOOR. PUPPET SHOW, 4TH FLOOR. SANTA, 2ND FLOOR. 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin.
Wednesday, December 8, 1954
Vol. 75— 3904
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
"Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Whstralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
R. G. MENZIES
WITH 26 years of Parliamentary service behind
him, Robert Gordon Menzies last week broke the
record for length of term in the Prime Minister-
ship with seven years, 106 days in office. Only
one other Prime Minister (W. M. Hughes) has
approached this record —and that in a time of war
and reconstruction.
Menzies’s earlier terms of office were both
mostly stormy; the present is a comparative calm. In
the first one he suffered from a hostile press and a
divided following, as well as a tpo-candid approach
to his adversaries, who smothered him and his
Ministry with their catchcries. But during his first
Ministry was established most of the groundwork
of defence which later was held out to be among
the glories of “Labor”-party achievement.
Australia for generations will be paying the
price of the loss of the Menzies Government in
1941, and it is paying the price for the resistance
to the Menzies Government in the years of the
second regime—for the rush of long-hairs and
adolescent-minded clergy and scientists to defeat
the Government’s anti-Communist legislation.
It is safe to say that, save in the case of
Hughes, no Prime Minister has ever made so much
ground as Menzies himself has made in his maturer
years, both in his own party and in relation to his
opponents. Even his enemies are prepared to agree
that he is head and shoulders over anyone in any
Australian Parliament both as an orator and as a
tactician, leaving out the isolated example of Mr,
Playford in the State field. The Communists were
well aware of this when they began dogging him
15 years ago. And everybody, even those in
continual contest with him, also agrees on his
merits considered purely as a Parliamentarian;
for, though the deficiencies of the Constitution
sometimes lead him to strange expedients, he out-
shines all his rivals in Parliamentary decorum in
debate and, even at his most acid and in pursuit of
those for whom he has the greatest contempt,
observes the standards of good form and personal
courtesy.
Menzies is human, he is a sport-lover, and, in
immediately past years, has made a closer contact
with the broad mass of the electorate and the
people than any “Labor” leader of modem times
has done. There are certain concessions which he
has had to make in the interests of leadership and
the country at large to the popular conception of
what he should be and think. He has succeeded to
a very large extent in appeasing the mass mind
while sacrificing a minimum of his own independ-
ence of thought, thus achieving a balance of attitude
which, if he had possessed it, might have kept Lord
Bruce in office, to the great benefit of Australia.
There is a popular misconception that Minis-
terial office is something highly desirable and
dowered with benefits and privileges which make it
well worth the responsibilities. The fact is that
the demands of, the new type of bureaucratic,
semi-Socialist Government which uses Parliament
merely as the instrument of the administration
and the controllers of which are expected to be
responsible for everything (from the price of tea
to the grasshopper plague) make executive office
today a killer. And the Prime Minister is to be
congratulated on possessing a resilience of
temperament and a philosophic outlook sufficiently
dominating his personal climate to enable him to
bear with the continuous barrage of demand,
execration and plain 24-hours-a-day duty which
comprise the ingredients of a Prime Minister’s life.
If anybody attempted to work a draughthorse
as regularly and under such heavy loads as Prime
Ministers —and Treasurers —in Australia are
worked, the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals would be after him with' an axe, and
the sob-sister press would forget even Miss Beiger
in its indignation.
One of the great deficiencies in the Australian
system of government is that no Prime Minister,
or for that matter no elder statesman, who has
done his share of the bullock-work can retire with
dignity from office in a way that allows the country
to retain full benefit of his advice and experience.
In the United Kingdom a Prime Minister
who cares to retire when he has done his
share, or when he thinks new blood should have its
chance, may betake himself to the House of Lords
without loss of prestige or dignity, and can still play
a useful role in which the country continues to use
his service without imposing too much detail upon
him.
In Australia, of course, there is no House of
Lords. Dr. Evatt and Mr. Rupert Lockwood both
strongly disapprove of such institutions even in
democratised form. The idea that service and
experience should earn a place in the legislature
for a few specially-qualified persons is regarded as
an outmoded Tory heresy. The only refuge for a
former Prime Minister, unless he is prepared to
remain a back-bencher fighting at each election for
his seat and an eyesore to new leaders who envy
him his established reputatioa and accomplish-
ments, is either political obscurity or flight to the
United Kingdom.
Nobody hopes that Mr. Menzies will disappear
from office until some comparable successor is in
the offing. But when he does, perhaps years hence,
it is to be hoped that he will go before the job kills
him as it has done others; also that it will be far
enough ahead for some reforms to have taken
place in the Senate which will render it possible
for men like himself to remain in the Legislature
without undue sacrifice of standing and without the
strain of frequent electioneering. A reform which
made former Prime Ministers and certain other
senior Ministers (of whatever party) members of the
Senate, up to a limit in numbers, might be salutary.
And it might also prevent repetitions of the case of
Viscount Bruce, in whom Australia lost one of its
ablest economists and statesmen, to the great gain
of the United Kingdom, because when he ceased
to be Prime Minister there was no role here for
him commensurate with his status and ability.
Mr. Menzies’s period of office will be remem-
bered in future generations for its show of political
courage against “popular opinion” at a time when
popular opinion was “new-order” crazy, for its
political honesty in an age of the great political
liar, and for its sober good government with only
a natural modicum of errors. Especially, while
“Labor” is in its present state of desiccation, he is
a figure which stands out clearly and alone and one
about which there is less and less controversy and
which inspires increasingly friendly feelings in the
electorate.
Press and People
AUSTRALIAN journalists are a sorry lot,
particularly that representative of the species who
writes on political subjects. If he does not sign his
articles it is because he is relquired “to write to
order, in secret, what he might be ashamed to write
openly, to earn a livelihood by serving a bad cause,
and yet [is enabled] to avoid the stigma of venal
partisanship and to pass in private for a man of
honor and sincerity.” Those who do put their
names to what they write
are necessarily in tbe invidious position, all the
time, or half the time or five per cent, of the timel
(and even five per cent, of the time is already a
crying public evil), of being obliged to write
otherwise than they would choose to write if their
consciences were free* of being compelled (at the
very best) to compromise between their own
opinions and the opinions of their paymasters, of
betraying their public trust by putting their
signatures to statements and arguments which
their own inmost judgments do not endorse at all,
or do not wholly endorse.
This poignant passage is not taken from the intro-
duction to Document J ; it is the considered judg-
ment of Edwin Tylor Brown, contained in his “The
Sovereign People: Analysis of an Illusion,” a work
which was awarded the University of Melbourne
Harbison-Higinbotham Prize for Political Science,
and is described on its dust-jacket as “one of the
most searching, lucid and indeed ruthless examina-
tions of the workings, of political democracy,
particularly in Australia and Britain.” Journalists
who do not consider this description of their pro-
fessional activities a strictly accurate one may find
some consolation in the fact that the author is not
singling-out Australians for special attention ; his
remarks refer to British and American journalists
also.
Nor is Mr. Brown so much attacking journa-
lists as sympathising with them ; it is their mis-
fortune rather than their fault that they depend
for their living upon the bounty of press barons,
millionaires, newspaper magnates and Fleet-street
capitalists. These gentlemen pay for what they
want and get what they pay for—“scurrilous
writers are scurrilous because they are expected to
be scurrilous.”
Mr. Brown’s main quarrel with this control of
the press by “beefheaded barons” is that it prevents
the sovereign people—apparently identical with
the average people—from ever learning the truth
about political issues, so that consequently they
never get the kind of Government they deserve,
which is government by themselves. The press if
not without accomplices in this; the whole
apparatus of public information “is chiefly used by
the peoples’ enemies in order to bamboozle and
deceive them.” This stricture includes the radio, the
platform, the pulpit, the school, the library,' the
picture-show, the stage and all the apparatus of
publicity, education and amusement.
It will be gathered by now that Mr. Brown
looks upon the press (and allied interests) as a
rather potent force, and, to quote him once again,
“no one who looks coolly at politics in modem
Parliamentary States can possibly doubt the
efficacy of press-made opinion.” But one may
certainly disagree with him on the degree of the
efficacy. For example, when he goes on to say that
its influence is destructive and disastrous; it has
everywhere brought liberty to the utmost verge
of ruin
one may doubt whether Mr. Brown himself has
been looking coolly at politics in modern Parlia-
mentary States. Does he really believe liberty to
be at the verge of ruin in Australia? Or in
Britain?
And when he states that
wherever in the last thirty years liberty has
actually been overthrown, the corruption of
opinion, the engrossing of a disproportionate
share of press and other publicity by interests with
money to squander, has been one of the most
direct and powerful causes of that catastrophe,
what countries has he in mind? The charge
scarcely seems to apply to China, or to Rumania.
Poland or Bulgaria, and if it be argued that the
people of these countries had little liberty to lose,
then what about Czechoslovakia, once held up as
the most enlightened democracy in Europe? If
there were press barons in that republic they seem
to have escaped notice up to now.
In lands where liberty has not yet been pushed
over the verge Mr. Brown sees its only hope of
survival in the wresting of press and radio from
the hands of vested interests and private capi-
talists ; rank-and-file control of information and
propaganda is the first and fundamental condition
of democracy. This does not mean control by the
State, but by the readers and listeners.
The machinery for this is ingenious if nothing
else. All newspapers are to be taken from the press
barons—with compensation provided they behave;
otherwise, presumably, not —and their publication
and distribution entrusted to a Newspaper Corpora-
tion.
As far as direction of policy is concerned the
papers will be allocated to the political parties in
proportion to their electoral following. These will
be allowed to write what they please and be as
partisan as they wish, but they will have nothing
to do with sales or advertising, so the warping
influence of money will be removed. But each
partisan sheet will be required to allocate a certain
amount of space to its opponents for their un-
fettered use; this will overcome the objection that
no one wants to buy all the papers.
The sole source of revenue of each paper will
be a subsidy from the corporation, based also on
electoral following, not upon sales. If the corpora-
tion doesn’t get enough revenue from sales and
advertising to pay the subsidies, the Government
will make up the difference. The Newspaper
Corporation will not be a State concern; it will
consist of representatives of the partisan papers
and will thus be all-party “and therefore, as far as
human nature allows, non-partisan.”
This system, its author contends, will ensure
that all parties control their fair share of the
propaganda-machine ; the sovereign people, there-
fore, having all sides of politics presented, will be
able for the first time to make its electoral decisions
intelligently. Reform of the press is, of course,
just the beginning of Mr. Brown’s plan for building
a real democracy. Proportional-representation,
referendum and recall, two-year Parliaments, a
scheme for having political parties controlled by
the rank-and-file instead of by party bosses, a
system whereby the executive cannot dissolve the
Parliament and Parliament cannot change the
executive, and a basic change in education so that
children will grow up fully educated politically,
are other important planks in his platform. But
all of them really depend on expropriating the
press-barons and breaking their power.
This raises the question of what is the extent
of that power, Mr. Brown, like many other publi-
cists, seems to have a greatly exaggerated idea of
it. He would probably agree with Mr. Cahill that
the entire Sydney daily press is anti-“ Labor” and
has been for years. Yet “Labor” has won five New
South Wales elections in a row. Queensland
“Labor,” in the face of consistent press-attacks,
has stayed in power for 22 years. If the Brown
argument is right it must be merely an illusion
that there are five “Labor” Premiers in Australia
today.
At bottom Mr. Brown seems to have a poor
opinion of the intelligence of the sovereign people.
Given anything approaching the educated com-
munity he hopes for, the rest of his elaborate
edifice is unnecessary.


“THEY LOVE ME... THEY LOVE ME NOT..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Evatt's Green Herring
With a National Opera House about to
come into being in Sydney—“ Labor” has
not yet shown much interest in it—the
theme for the opening night’s show seems
to be ready-made: music by Bert Evatt,
F.R.S.M- (Fellow of the Royal Society
of Mouthorganists), libretto by A.L.P.,
Messrs. Keou and W- M. Bourke in the
roles of the new Australian Leonora and
the doomed troubadour.
The plot is fantastic. Dr. Evatt
appears at a Commission on Espionage,
his cause linked with those of Com-
munist counsel, with whom he proves
himself one in thought, action and inten-
tion. Both are out to wreck the com-
mission oh the basis of accusations based
on the same evidence. They appear
together, work together, prompt each
other in court and the Communist
counsel goes to Dr. Evatt’s chambers
and is reported to remain there on one
occasion in his absence. They prove to
have not a skerrick of evidence to sup-
port their charges against innocent men
who are serving the country under diffi-
cult conditions. They do something to
lessen the safety of the country by forc-
ing Security, in process of defending
itself and its reputation for honesty, to
unveil one of the most useful counter-
spies against Communism in this country.
The report of the Royal Commissioners
is unanimous and devastating, A few
years ago it would have blasted Dr.
Evatt clean out of public life. But not
now. These are the days when the
“Labor” party is honeycombed with the
ideals of Doyle and his kind, when
anything goes.
Only two or three voices are raised
against Dr. Evatt’s proceedings loudly
enough to be heard. They are those of
Catholics,' as it happens, not an uncom-
mon matter in the “Labor” party. The
names of the majority of members of a
“Labor” Ministry are usually those of
Irish Catholics, The last four Prime
Ministers “Labor” has produced were all
born Catholics. It is certainly no crime
to be a Catholic in the “Labor” party.
But it is illegal in the party to be a
Communist or to associate with Com-
munists. The A.L.P. constitutions and
resolutions reek with threats as to what
will happen to persons associating them-
selves with a party which Dr. Evatt
once admitted to be involved in trying
to wreck Australian defence in the
interests of a foreign Power.
But instead of dealing with Dr. Eyatt,
who was engaged in common operations
with the foreign Power’s agents —and
that to the detriment of Security—the
A.L.P. allowed him to be the accuser
and dealt with the group which dared to
criticise him and which was immediately
charged with being engaged in the
nefarious project of capturing the party
for Catholicism, against which there is
certainly nothing in the rules. It was not
put like that, but that is what is implicit
in Dr. Evatt’s accusations. The actual
accusation is that Dr. Evatt’s enemies in
the party have in a most dastardly
manner criticised “Labor” leadership
outside the secrecy of the “Labor”
fold. Dr. Evatt, of course, also com-
mitted this hideous specific type of crime
first, but the A.L.P. seems to have a
Nelsonian blind eye where he is con-
cerned. And no “Labor” critic so far
seems to have noticed how curious the
spectacle is of the Great Architect of
Freedom, the author of the Fourteen
Point Plan to legislate freedom of speech,
action and religion into the Australian
Constitution, prosecuting members of
Parliament before the Federal Executive
for exercising a right which he has always
maintained to be natural to man —
liberty of speech.
The Victorian A.L.P. Executive hav-
ing supported the Catholic section
(though it is certainly not Catholic), the
Federal Executive has decided to
liquidate it as far as it can —it cannot
liquidate people like Mr. Lovegrove, the
ex-Communist who is a chief executive-
officer, because he is a permanent
official. This is a move which the Com-
munists will receive with applause. Like
Dr. Evatt’s actions before the Petrov
Commission, it is exactly in line with
Communist policy. As long ago as
October, 1944, Comrade Sharkey wrote
in the “Communist Review”:
In Victoria the Cremean-Lovegrove Red-
baiters created disruption wherever they
could exert their evil influence. Xhey
refused to work with Communists, ex-
pelled Brian Fitzpatrick, and tried to
force Messrs. Cain and Slater to join them
in their disruptive tactics.
This disruption of which Comrade
Sharkey complained was in the beautiful
accord then existing between the Com-
munists and Dr. Evatt, leader of the
campaign for the Fourteen Points.
During that campaign, which Dr. Evatt
led, Mr. Sharkey declared “co-operation
between the A.L.P. and the Communist
party reached its highest level yet
recorded. Confidence and friendship be-
tween the two parties was further
cemented.” Messrs. Fitzpatrick and
Slater (appointed Ambassador to Russia
by the “Labor” Government) were two
of Dr. Evatt’s strongest supporters. One
of them now provides the Communist
party with its text-books on Australian
history. The other is Attorney-General
of Victoria, where Cain is Premier,
It seems that the A.L.P. is now busy,
under Dr. Evatt’s influence, in removing
the elements which stand in the way of
the kind of co-operation between
“Labor” and the Communist party
which was so clearly evident in the
Fourteen Points Campaign and in his
proceedings before the Petrov Commis-
sion.
The Catholic issue is merely a herring
—green, not red —introduced to draw
attention away from the real issue and
drown the anguished cries of liquidated
Redbaiters who are opposed to Dr.
Evatt’s beautiful friendship with the Left.
She's England Yet
Some writer or other, returned to Eng-
land the other day for the first time since
1946, remarked that the English seemed
to have reverted from the devil-may-care
spirit of the war years to their old, staid
and rather stuffy mode of life.
This was rather a sad thing to contem-
plate. Especially to those of us who,
from afar, watched that people under
bombardment from the air, their cities
falling to ruins about them, their food-
rations cut to a bare minimum of mono-
tonous grub, their hopes of a new shirt
dim and forlorn, with death walking the
streets night and day, and their young
men scattered in the skies and over the
seas, and a ferocious and triumphant
enemy glaring across the Channel.
Aye, five years of that. And we know
that they somehow found a spirit of
gaiety and recklessness and courage.
They did the most unconventional things,
took grave risks with a quip and a laugh,
joked at other peoples living in safety
and plenty, conducted themselves so that
they became a people rather to be envied
than pitied.
This, as well as their courage and faith
in ultimate victory, endeared them to the
outside world. Everybody who watched
their great struggle in 1939-45 will be
sad to hear how they’ve reverted to their
old, staid-
Wait!
It isn’t true! Fred Perkins, 61 years
old, has given the canard the lie. Perkins
was concerned about his “rights” as a
shareholder in a stovemaking concern.
He got tired of being told to keep quiet
by the chairman of directors. He took
two eggs and two tomatoes from the
kitchen —without a word to his wife—
went to the meeting and, when the chance
came, threw the foodstuffs at the board,
said “Good-morning, ladies and gentle-
men,” and walked out. How much more
effective than moving a point of order!
What point he hoped to make doesn’t
matter. What does matter is that the war-
time spirit of up-and-at-’em and to
blazes with fussy old notions of conduct
and privilege and precedence is not dead.
The Perkins gesture, coupled with the
football defeat of the Russians, proves
that she’s England yet.
Cain Retains Control
It is doubtful whether there was any real
likelihood of a general election being
hastened in Victoria as a result of the
Hollway Liberals’ decision to oppose the
Prices Control Bill in the Legislative Coun-
cil. Similar threats on other bills have
been made during the time the Holiways
have held the balance of power in the
Council and they have usually ended in
compromise, either through the threat-
ened backing-down or through their ex-
tracting from the Government some kind
of concession which would enable both
Mr. Hollway and Mr. Cain to face Parlia-
ment with relieved smiles on their homely
features.
This time, however, Hollway seemed
to have left himself no back- or side-door
exit, and it was left to Cain to decide
whether to sit tight or take the big jump.
The position was that if the bill were
defeated in the Council all price-controls
would cease after December 31, and Cain
had said that he considered the continua-
tion of price-control vital. He now had
to decide whether it was as vital as the
continuation of the Cain Government.
For a while there was talk of a firm
stand and a whirlwind election-campaign
with polling-day in January, but the elec-
tion-party didn’t stand a chance; the
idea of Victorian “Labor” going to the
country while its faction-fight was in full
swing and the Federal executive was trying
to decide whether it was really a “Labor”
party at all was too ludicrous to con-
template. The decision was made to
accept defeat in the Council and carry
on.
Despite criticism from the Opposition,
the decision was eminently sane. Twelve
months ago price-control might have been
an election-winning issue, but not in
January, 1955. It has already been aban-
doned in three States, and in the others,
including Victoria, so many items have
been removed from its grip without ill
effects that its retention scarcely makes
sense. Cain is probably secretly pleased
at the turn of events. He is rid of some-
thing he would not have dared to dis-
card himself, and, if any ill effects develop
before the next election, he can place the
blame on his opponents. In other words,
he has the situation quite under control.
The Motor-horn
Professor Harvey Sutton, whose line
is preventive medicine among other
things, says that Sydney City Council
should ban the sounding of motor-horns
at night in order to give hospital patients,
tired workers and nervous people some
relief from noise.
• Rome and Paris have both banned
motor-horns altogether. In London,
though there is no ban, it is a rare sound
to hear, yet London is thinking about
banning it.
In France, where (outside Paris) it is
obligatory for the motorist to sound his
horn at every intersection, when over-
taking, when passing pedestrians and
cyclists, the effect is that few take any
notice of the horn, anyhow. Pedestrians
and cyclists on French roads don’t even
look round at the sound, and it doesn’t
stop villagers from shooting out of their
narrow, walled sidestreets on to the
main road.
Perhaps the horn could be done with-
out. It was put on the first cars because
the roads were then full of horse-traffic
and some warning was necessary for
horse-users so they could have their
horses under control as the motor came
along It has continued as an accepted
part of the car, but is no longer used as
a warning so mfich as a bullying device
by the impatient and careless.
It would be an interesting experi-
ment to remove the horns from all motor-
vehicles in Australia for (say) three
months, and see what effect it had on
accident and damage figures. For it
seems pretty certain that, without horns,
all drivers would be a great deal more
careful, and road-bullies would be, as it
were, stricken dumb.
Certainly it seems ridiculous for a
magistrate or an insurance company still
to ask a motorist who has been involved
in an accident: “Did you sound your
horn?” Yet this usually inane question
is still a routine one.
The New Wheat price
After Federal Treasurer Fadden, who
can be taken as the leader of Agrarians
,in Australian politics, came back from*
abroad talking of huge wheat- and other
food-surpluses in the Americas, Senator
McLeay (Acting Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture) announced the new
wheat-prices under the “stabilisation
plan.” There was an immediate protest
from N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Asso-
ciation that they were “unjust.”
The protest, however, ignored the
overseas situation —which, incidentally,
was noted by The Bulletin more than
a year ago—and alleged the cost-of-pro-
duction figures produced by the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics were wrong.
The F. and S.A. says that instead of being
slightly down, as the B.A.E. says, the
c.o.p. is up.
Whether it is up or down, or whether
or not these economists and analysers and
what-have-you are right, the blunt fact
is the American surplus, which was big a
year ago aqd is bigger now. Wheat is an
export article, and those who have to buy
it abroad aren’t likely to pay prices dic-
tated by local farmer or Government
organisations. Britain pulled out of the
International Wheat Agreement plainly
because she wasn’t going to pay the high
prices demanded when she knew the
Americas would have to sell cheaper.
The 12s. 7d. a bushel announced isn’t
a bad price when measured against the
pressure of American wheat. It is last
year’s price, So is the new domestic price
of 14s. Ud. A good many things have
levelled off or fallen a little this year.
Wool averaged £lO4 a bale in the third
quarter of 1953 ; it was a little over £92
for the same quarter this year.
Wheat sells abroad on a competitive
market, as does wool. Within Australia,
for many years, growers have received
less than the export-price in the interests
of national stability. One day the con-
sumer may be called on, with good
reason, to pay considerably more than
the world-price, likewise in the interest
of national stability. But that situation
seems hardly to have arisen yet, even
though the domestic price of 14s.
may now be a little above world parity.
Democracy's "Great Day"
“El Verdugo’s” reflections on Eureka:
The centenary of Eureka has been celebrated
with more vim than is usually put into Aus-
tralian celebrations of much more important
and creditable events. The deplorable affair
has been politicalised, sectarianised, mired-over
by propagandists, combed-over by theorists and
treated with more respect than the British treat
Blenheim or Waterloo.
For a generation or two it was held up
from radical soap-boxes as the gallant resistance
to British tyranny that lit the lamp of .Aus-
tralian freedom—which had already been lit.
The Communists took the matter up, and in
the “Golden Jubilee of the Australian Labor
1 arty,” which was issued under their aegis
when the Evans-Hughes Group held the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. under complete control of
the Communist party, articles by Dr. Evatt
and others laid the foundations 'for the capture
of the Eureka flag and its dedication by the
reorganised Young Communist Party, which
was re-formed under the name Eureka Youth
League. The Eureka oath in 1940 was spouted
from dozens of platforms devoted to the
so-called “anti-conscription” fight, which was
really a fight to prevent further men being sent
against Stalin’s ally, Hitler. It may be added
that it was not only the Communists who
spouted it.
The centenary has brought a new propa-
gandist spate. The University of Melbourne
has issued a special number of “Historical
Studies,” 96 quarto pages closely printed. Its
large and useful documentation shows that the
Eureka affair appears to rank in Australian
historical literature with the other great Aus-
tralian fight for freedom by the Kelly gang.
There seem to be three schools of thought
in regard to the incident. Mr. Geoffrey Serle,
one of Melbourne University’s writers, holds
rather solemnly that “it is both alarming and
illuminating to review the explanations advanced
by some standard historians, since gross over-
simplifications and brash generalisations are
all too common.” He contends that “Eureka
is a classic instance of a , very confused causal
situation, in which large numbers of people
were involved, whose decisions were determined
by many and varied motives,” and that “many
historians (and students, too) appear to be
driven by some fundamentalist urge, to think
it essential to pick out one, or possibly two,
causal factors which they believe to be the
key to the situation and which they accentuate
to the neglect of others.” He thanks a Dr.
Currey for having “performed a service” in
bringing out the fact that ‘Eureka was an
Irish rebellion.”
It is to be hoped that the learned gentleman
who has made this discovery does not try to
patent it as original. It is a thread-
bare theory. The casualty list issued
by Peter Lalor, the leader, after the event,
can be analysed racially as follows —Killed,
died of wounds and wounded, 34. Of these
the names of three were unknown and the
places of birth of five unknown, leaving 29
whose origins were established. Of these 20
were Irish. Only one of the remainder was
an Australian —he had an Irish name. There
were three Canadians, two Germans, one Scot
and two Englishmen. Dr. Currey is a bit late
in producing his discovery. Apart from this
list the newspaper accounts of the time
emphasised that “most of the insurgents were
Irishmen.” And even the Irish will have a
large bone to pick with him and he will no
doubt receive a writ from the ghost of Peter
Lalor for saying that “the emeute was in fact
the second example in Australia of concerted
armed resistance to authority by Irishmen.”
There was no doubt that the 1804 business
was started exclusively by Irish nationalists,
that they were utterly reckless of the conse-
quences to anybody, since they were prepared
to take into their camp the lowest types of
criminal, and that they were actually planning
to join the French, with whom Britain was then
at war. Even an initial victory for them would
have ended almost without doubt in the most
horrible outrages, in view of their behavior
while at large and the nature of the population.
Though it was the Irish —a few of the Irish—
who formed the bulk of the little lawless band
in the so-called Eureka “stockade,” which
wasn’t a stockade at all but a very amateurish
barricade of “ropes, slabs and overturned
carts,the schooling of the diggers in public
agitation and mass demonstration was the work
of men of five nationalities, a Welshman, an
Irishman, an Englishman, a German and an
Italian. Neither the editor of the “Diggers
Advocate,” nor of the “Ballarat Times,” which
played a major part in inflaming Irish opinion,
was an Irishman. The mover of the fateful
motion at Bakery Hill to burn the licences
was a German, and the Irish chairman, Timothy
Hayes, used all his influence to “expunge it,
to use his own word at his State trial. Thus
Mr. J. G. Murtagh, who points this out, dis-
poses very effectively of the Currey school ot
thought. . , t . r
The Evatt school of thought, on the other
hand, holds to the theory that the battle was
fought by sterling Australian patriots for their
14 points of freedom or something, and ne
must be taken seriously, for this occasion, any-
way, since the A.B.C. chose him to deliver its
politically-infused oration on the anniversary.
His essay in the Communist-produced document
which the Communist-controlled Hall
machine produced in 1940 was called
tralian Democracy was bora at Eureka,
may have been born at Ballarat, but if "
tainly was not born among the ragged and i P
200 who were in the so-called stockade that
(i Continued on next page)


Sunday morning, a very large section of them
still apparently well lined with last night’s rum,
if contemporary accounts may be credited.
The delusion that Eureka had something to
do with the obtaining of constitutional govern-
ment is, of course, nonsense. The new Con-
stitution Bill and the bill to extend elective
franchise to the miners with 12 months
licensed residence were on the way to England
for Royal Assent eight months before the
fight at the Stockade. Dr. Evatt’s “democratic”
theory, especially as it is linked into Communist
history by his Communist admirers, holds
about the same amount of water as the Irish-
rebellion theory. And it is not possible to
find a single trace of Marxism among the whole
boiling of the so-called insurgents. Ninety
per cent, were probably the victims of mob
hypnosis.
There are other popular delusions about the
events of Eureka. One is that the attack was
a completely brutal and savage assault by an
overwhelming force of military on poor inno-
cent lovers of liberty who were fighting for
their country’s good, In fact those who were
attacked, whatever the ill-judgment and clumsi-
ness of the authorities in fanning the flames of
discontent at Ballarat, constituted an armed
force in actual military rebellion under a flag
which was not the British flag. Some of them
were in fact un-naturalised foreigners. Their
numbers would have grown if they had remained
unchallenged. The authorities chose their time
to attack them, so as to surprise them at
dawn and cause as little violence and bloodshed
as possible.
The first shots were not fired by the military.
It was only when fired on that the military
answered wtih a volley. The fact that 24 foot-
police, not the soldiers, were first inside the
barricade speaks for itself. The flag which
the Eureka Youth League now so boldly flies
was pulled down by one of them who climbed
the pole—an observer declared, “under heavy
fire.” The troops lost heavily, and Captain
Wise of the Somersets and Lieutenant Paul
of the Devons were wounded, the former
severely. The patriots inside the stockade seem
to have infused a good many historians with
their indignation that the brutal soldiery
actually used firearms and bayonets on them
after they had been fired on first by rebels
under a revolutionary flag and then subjected
to heavy sniping.
The bulk of Australians are no doubt .only
too willing to leave Eureka to the propagan-
dists. Anzac provides a much better and more
worthy national symbolism.
POLITICAL POINTS
Rejection of price-control in Victoria
probably means the end of it every-
where. Westralia, South Australia and
Tasmania have already wiped it and New
South Wales—as the butter-, potato- and
onion-wars of recent years have shown —
will find it almost impossible to retain it
with a decontrolled Victoria just across
the Murray. And Gair is not likely to
hanker after the role of shag on a rock.
• •
Final count in the N. S. Wales liquor
referendum gave 10-o’clock the victory
by 9792 votes. Actual figures; 10 p.m.,
902,532 ; 6 p.m., 892,740.
• •
In his early youth Menzies was
exposed to “Labor” propaganda, but. it
didn’t impress him. The fact was recalled
during the celebration of his record term
as P.M., when he mentioned that his
maternal grandfather was John Sampson,
who helped W. G. Spence to form the
first miners’ union in Victoria, and was
then blacklisted for life by the mine-
owners. Sampson used to read his grand-
son long passages from the “Worker”
and ask what he thought of them.
Menzies claimed that he usually replied
“■l’m afraid I don’t think much of it.”
However, his grandfather appreciated
independence of thought, and “I think,
for that, I was his favorite grandson.”
• •
A quarter of a century in Canberra
hasn’t improved Eddie Ward’s vision
much; he still can’t see far beyond Pad-
dington. The latest manifestation of this
is his renewal of the whine he has raised
at intervals ever since his erstwhile bosom
pal Calwell instituted the post-war immi-
gration-scheme ; its slogan is “No more
migrants till every Australian is decently
housed,” which is a variation on his
earlier theme, “No migrants till every
Aussie has a job.”
Contrary to Ward’s prophecies the
arrival of hundreds of thousands of New
Australians has not caused unemploy-
ment among the native-born, and his
latest whinge is equally hollow.
By their work in the steel-industry, in
brickmaking and in the building-industry
migrants have contributed mightily to
overcoming the housing shortage,
• •
A. G. Warner, former Minister for
Electrical Undertakings in the Hollway
Government, has been elected Leader of
the Opposition in the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council in succession to Sir James
Kennedy, who died last month; G. L.
Chandler is deputy-leader.
• •
When Askin, Deputy-leader of the
Opposition in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
remarked that “Eureka was the Aus-
tralian working man’s great historic
fight against petty tyranny” most “Labor”
members agreed with him. But when he
let them down by continuing
The centenary of Eureka sees the new
tyranny of compulsory unionism... .It is
a far cry from Eureka to Premier Cahill’s
licence-to-live economy
you could have cut the air with a gold-
pass.
• •
Most catchy slogan yet scrawled on a
wall: “Ban H-bomb! One flash and
you’re ash!”
• •
Plaintive admission by Wetherell,
N.S.W. Transport Minister, at a meeting
of railway-heads from four States:
“Unless we lower freights and enter into
competition with road-transport we will
have to abandon our railways.” That
fact has been staring State railways in
the face for 20 years, and in spite of all
the talk about ( what they’re going to dc
about road-transport, the Privy Council
decision comes down to what Wetherell
said.
• •
Canberra announces that Australia
gained 14,627 “permanent settlers”
during the September quarter. But
wouldn’t “residents” be a better term?
It’s our habit to regard a settler as a man
who goes on the land. Few, if any, of
the new arrivals would be settlers in that
sense.
Murray water, which already supplies
Whyalla and the Woomera rocket-range
hundreds of miles from its nearest point,
is now helping to save Adelaide from a
threatened water-shortage. The planned
pipeline from Mannum will not be com-
pleted until February, but last week
Premier Playford and Works Minister
Mclntosh turned valves which will feed
18 million gallons a day into Millbrook
and Mt, Bold reservoirs. Ultimately
this figure will be increased to 54 million
gallons.
• •
Section 92 has been invoked by the
advocates of many strange causes in its
time, but it must have raised its eye-
brows a little when Maher, M.L.A. for
North Sydney, asked Cahill whether the
Sydney Harbor Bridge toll acted in
restraint of inter-State, inter-city and
suburban trade and infringed the section.
Cahill replied that North Sydney was
still part of New South Wales and that
therefore Section 92 had no relevancy to
trade between the north and south sides
of the harbor.
• •
Queensland’s clubs have been con-
fronted by a woodener in their State’s
new Liquor Acts amendments, which
provide that metropolitan and provincial
city-clubs must have a membership of 500
and country-clubs a membership of 150
LITTLE MAN. WHAT NOW?
(A new generation of youths is sadly in need of sober instruction in the use of
fire-arms, judging by a recent outbreak of casualties.)
in order to get a licence. The aim is
obvious—to force clubs to open member-
ship to all and sundry.
• •
It must have amused Menzies to watch
how the Sydney daily press, which
expended tons of paper and ink on trying
to belittle and destroy him politically,
almost burst its margins trying to get
on the bandwagon of public acclaim
when he made his record as Prime
Minister.
• •
In their eagerness to outdo each other
in enthusiasm over the centenary of
Eureka both Laborites and Commos
seem to have forgotten that the men of
Jiureka weren’t wage-plugs at all. They
Were individualists bent on making a
fortune, and their leader, Peter Lalor,
lived to become president of the Vic-
torian Legislative Council and be
execrated as a crusted Tory.
• •
Tea-drinkers will not get much com-
fort from the latest statements in Ceylon.
The Minister for Finance in Colombo
justified the further increase in export-
duty by saying that while profits on tea
had risen by 65 per cent, in the last year.
the duty had risen by only 25 per cent.
The Ceylonese High Commissioner in
Canberra says that at recent auctions
higher prices have been obtained, and
that the upward trend may be expected to
continue until May next year at least.
• •
A great fuss is being made by the
States on how they propose to tax road-
hauliers so as to get money to maintain
the roads. Sensible hauliers have never
objected to a reasonable road-mainten-
ance tax —have, in fact, frequently urged
that the taxation just declared invalid
should have gone to road-funds instead
of to the railways.
• •
Malan named Havenga his successor as
leader of the Nationalist party in South
Africa, but the party chose instead
Strijdom, who thus becomes Prime Minis-
ter. Strijdom comes from the extreme
wing of the party, to whom a South
African Republic is not merely an ab-
stract ideal but something that is just
round the corner. In his first speech as
Prime Minister he promised “tolerance,
fair-mindedness and loyalty to abiding
values.” It is in the final phrase that the
catch lies. Many South Africans take a
very different view from their Prime
Minister on what constitutes abiding
values.
• •
From Westminster;
The most important by-election during the
life of the present Government has been won
by the Conservatives. This is West Derby, a
residential suburb of Liverpool largely com-
posed of council-houses and therefore especially
prone to a leftward swing. 'She seat became
vacant through Sir David Maxwell Fyfe’s
elevation to the peerage. His majority in 1951
was only 1707, and since then a large number
of voters had moved in from other districts.
Anything might happen, it was felt, so both
parties put all their resources into the cam-
paign. The Conservative candidate Woollam
was a local man, a barrister and a man of
the people, having won his way by scholarships.
But voters did not seem to be impressed or
the reverse at the qualifications of candidates or
the postulations of parties. They were just not
interested. Meetings were futile, Cabinet
Ministers getting attendances of no more than
15; sometimes the candidate and his retinue
numbered more than the audience.
When the result of the poll was announced (a
majority of 2508 for Mr. Woollam) a mere
100 people were' waiting. Since it is
reasonable to assume that a community which
is largely wage-earning would be quick to
make its feelings known if it suffered the pinch
of poverty or the social discomfort of Tory
misrule, the one inference that can be made
is that the voters are satisfied that Churchill’s
men are better managers of the nation’s affairs
than Attlee’s. The increased majority has
greatly heartened the Conservatives.
• •
“Melb’n”: Sixty or 70 ships of all
sizes were working in Melbourne ports
and a dozen more were anchored wait-
ing for wharf-space when the Waterside
Workers’ Federation decided to hold a
stop-work meeting. Purpose: to admit
new members to overcome the lag in
cargo-handling caused by the recent
strike. Presumably another stopwork
meeting will now be held to admit more
members to overcome the lag caused by
the earlier stopwork meeting.
• •
Two native members of New Guinea’s
Legislative Council should be brought to
Canberra and feted by Sir Artie. They
are Simogun and Vuia, who in a debate
on finance for developmental works said
cheerfully that they wanted to pay taxes.
Simogun said the Sepik natives should
pay taxes to finance general and native
development in the area, especially as the
Australian taxpayers were contributing
large sums. Then Vuia said that his
fellow-residents of the Gazelle Peninsula
of New Britain didn’t need to ask the
Administration for large amounts, as they
had financed and built schools and first-
aid posts from their own tax-revenue
through their village councils. He hoped
to see the council-system extended
generally to lighten the Administration’s
financial burdens. In his own area the
District Commissioner had taught the
native population to accept responsibility.
As a result they were able to help the
Administration.
• •
All of a sudden Queensland proposes
to license inter-State truck-drivers if
they pass a test for “character, fitness
and experience.” Isn’t it time such a
test should be applied to all applicants
for driving-licences?
• •
In reply to a question in the Indian
Parliament Prime Minister Nehru said
that there had been no change in recent
years in the policy of the Australian
Government in relation to the re-entry
of Indians into Australia. No case had
been reported of an Indian being refused
re-entry after absence abroad and that
the Commonwealth Government usually
raised no objection provided the appli-
cant could produce evidence, of long resi-
dence in Australia and had not come
under adverse notice.
Nehru mentioned, incidentally, that in
the past five years seven countries had
amended their immigration-laws, and in
every case Indians had been adversely
affected. The countries were South
Africa, Tanganyika, the Central African
Federation, Burma, Ceylon, Aden,
and Malaya. Critics of the White Aus-
tralia policy should note that four of these
countries are Asian and could scarcely
be accused of color prejudice.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
IT did strike me as a little peculiar,
when I came home to the
Grand Hotel du Globe from the
Moulin Rouge at two in the morning, to
see a small boy aged five sitting in an
armchair drinking a bottle of beer, so I
dare say the French Government is doing
well to inquire into alcoholism amongst
the kids. But the most amazing bit of
juvenile soaking I saw lately on the Con-
tinent was in the Hotel Krasnapolsky,
“Wish you d Wear your glasses, Wilfrid —then you’d probably
notice We have visitors .”
opposite the Queen’s palace in Amster-
dam; where in the huge dining-room,
got up like a Javanese jungle with tree-
ferns soaring to the skylights, and big
hanging washtubs of ferns that drop
black spores like train-smuts on to the
white tablecloths and into the soup, a
large Belgian man with two very large
Belgian boys, aged about 10 and 12, gave
them a glass of beer. . .and another glass
“ s , ~ f „
. . .and another. . .and another. . .and an-
Other. . .and, up to seven glasses, by which
time I was under the table myself, yet
another and another. It didn’t seem to
do them any harm ; beyond, as 1 have
said, enlarging them; but it would be
dreadful, when the Old Man can hardly
get a bottle for himself, if the custom
spread to Australia.—“MacHoots.”
*X*
“H.C.8.”: Roy Rene (Mo) broke into
radio billed as “Australia’s Prime Minis-
ter of Mirth.” The title was first bestowed
about World War I; the original P.M.,
Leonard Nelson, is now in his eighties,
and still rocking ’em in their seats.
Nelson delights in telling how The
Bulletin reviewed his first appearance
in Sydney: “Leonard Nelson was billed
as ‘Australia’s Prime Minister of Mirth.’
Time we had an election,”
\
❖ < *X* ❖
“Tummas McNark”: In an A.B.C. dis-
cussion a lady panelist (don’t tell me I’ve
coined a new word) stated that she felt
Australia lacked something, because “of
800,000 immigrants who had come here
since the war, 600,000 had returned to their
own countries.” Neither the “compeer”
nor anyone else on the panel appeared
to doubt the figures, starkly wrong as they
were. So pretty well everyone who was
listening would probably believe the
figures to be correct. Still, this sort of
thing isn’t confined to radio. Here’s an
hem from the “Sydney Morning Herald”
of November 26;
it WILL BE LONGEST PIPELINE
IN AUSTRALIA
A three-mile pipeline across Botany Bay,
will be the longest in Australia, is to be
laid by Australian Oil Refining Ltd., said Mr.
j Herron, the company’s vice-president and
general-manager, last night.
“Jack High”: The task was a
sentence containing “beautiful.” The
offering handed in by one 10-year-old
read “It is beautiful to be pregnant.”
Tactfully probed on the inspiration for
his astonishing effort, he explained:
“Yesterday my Mum said to my Dad
‘l’m pregnant,’ and Dad said ‘That’s
beautiful.’ ”
*X* *X* ❖
“Spinifex”: Sydney “Daily Mirror”
(24 /11 / ’54) commented on the unearth-
ing, in Hunter-street, Sydney, of a 40ft.
pole “of good Australian hardwood.”
According to the “Mirror” “a hole has
been drilled down its entire length. At one
end the hole, which contains several
smaller holes, has been plugged with a
large dowel.” It reminds me of a well
in our backyard. This hole is about 10ft.
in diameter and 20ft, deep, and it con-
tains several smaller holes^—hundreds of
symmetrical postholes and perfectly
straight rifle-barrel holes. If we could
only find a buyer to take delivery on the
spot we’d be in the money. Inside the
main hole, there’s also an enormous
number of auger-holes, moth-holes, ear-
holes and other small holes too numerous
to mention, but we wouldn’t dream of
charging for them, and anyone who’d
like an assortment of nice, round bung-
holes (guaranteed to accommodate any
bung) may have all he can carry away,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spin”: I see Einstein reckons that if
he had his time over again he’d be a
plumber—which shows how the mer-
cenary streak comes out in even the best
of us. Albert will have to be satisfied
that his help with the Bomb has secured
the future of a hypothetical plumber.
When the trade held its Australia-wide
conference in Perth the yarn went
around that a plumber found a rich
uranium-deposit, mapped its position and
kept quiet. He reckoned it would come
in handy if the bottom ever fell out of
plumbing.
>♦+ ♦♦♦ *x*
“Vega”: Colored golf-balls (B.
10/11 / ’54) are not without merits. Blue
balls are used with advantage on many
West Queensland courses, where the
“greens” are of white sandy soil (like
the fairways and rough). Red, too,
stands out like a beacon-light. Red
is more clearly discernible than any
other color while the ball is rising, but
through some peculiarity of sight it
is lost the moment it begins to fall.
*x* *x* *x*
“Nab”: Travelling to Sydney by rail:
“The cost of living is very high in this
country. If I pulled the alarm-cord in
this train without a reason I would be
fined £lO, but the same offence in Eng-
land would only cost me £5.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“P.0.M.C.”: Bookmakers are a fairly
even lot, but there’s something about
mine I particularly admire. It’s not the
smartness of his suits, the sweetness of
his voice, the generosity of his odds or
even his supreme confidence that lifts
him above his fellows and assures him
of my patronage. No, it’s the fact that he
alone among the mercenary brethren
takes time off to impress upon the backs
of all his briefs: “I thank you.”
*x* *x* *x*
“Simon”: Saddlery piay be largely
gone, but there are two saddleries in
Maitland (N.S.W.) that have carried on
for 100 years. The oldest, John Rourke’s,
was established in 1836 and the
business is still, carried on by Max
Rourke, a Bachelor of Science in his
fifties, great-grandson of the original.
Further up the street there is Barden and
Ribee, started in 1856 and still operated
by Jack Ribee, grandson of the original.
As Max Rourke has added other fines,
his store is the oldest in the State, and
therefore in Australia.
* ♦>
“T.E.”; Strange how, in this modern
world and even in their thrillers, English
writers persist in an outworn form of
snobbery. Thus I read in a current serial
that, “I finished a bottle of Montrachet
with my cheese and then as the Sevres
clock on the mantelpiece struck nin»,
Brindle brought in the coffee on a tray.”
I dare swear the original paragraph had
“Camembert” before cheese, “Louis
XIV” before mantelpiece, “Arabian”
before coffee, and “silver” before tray.
*X* ❖ *X*
“Melbn”: A genuine antique was
recovered from the waters of Bass
Strait when the 6200-ton Romanic
hauled up her dragging anchor in a
60-mile-an-hour gale to run to shelter at
Portarlington. It was another anchor,
weighing more than a ton-and-a-half,
and with a 10ft. shank, of so old a
model that it might have belonged to
Cook’s Endeavour.
& ❖ ❖
“Ashpar”; Two men of Yanchep
(W.A.), who had been discussing a stolen
car over the evening pints, strolled off
into the bush to have a look at it. At
the entrance to the quarry where it had
been found a police-trap stopped them
at gun-point, and demanded and received
satisfying explanations. The visitors
stuck around long enough to see the real
owner arrive and take possession. But
all was not over for him. On the way
back to Perth his petrol ran out. He
pushed the car to the side of the road, and
thumbed a ride from another motorist.
When he returned to claim his car he
found it guarded by an angry civilian who
refused to let him drive it away. “It’s
a stolen car,” the civilian stated flatly,
“and you’re not touching it ” Reference
to the police settled the argument; and
the owner is gradually getting used to
being in undisputed possession.
+J+
“Hallcraft”; Faith in the future? A
bright lass aged about 10 walked into a
suburban garage in Melbourne and
asked “Do you do retreading here?” The
owner assured her they did, and in half
an hour she was, back again. “Will you
please retread these?” she said, produc-
ing two very wojrn scooter-wheels. The
owner thought quickly:—then had the
job done for his youngest customer.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Y. 8.”: The manager decided to intro-
duce an incentive-payment system. He
explained it to a meeting of employees,
and asked for comments. Big Charlie
wouldn’t have a bar of it. It was against
his principles. The scheme was given a
trial. At the first special pay each
employee drew a bonus amounting to 14
per cent, of wages. When Charlie reached
the window the paymaster safd; “I under-
stand you have conscientious objections
to this scheme?” “Too right I have.”
“Will you please complete and sign this
paper?” Charlie read: “I authorise the
management to pay my bonus to the
.... charitable institution,” Charlie
refused ; said he wouldn’t let anybody
dictate things for him to sign. He pre-
ferred to take the money “under protest.’’
The bonus now averages 21 per cent
Charlie takes it —without protest.
“Baksac”: My mate bought his weekly
ticket on Monday morning, boarded the
train, and, nearing Central, couldn’t find
the ticket. He searched himself and the
floor, and made a last-second decision to
go on to an underground-station so that,
with an emptying carriage, he could turn
the seat over and look. But he still had
to get off the train without his ticket.
On the platform a motherly woman
approached: “Are you—short of
change?” He explained that he had
money with him; it was just that he
hated to think that his ticket was lost
on its maiden voyage. Near the barrier
a man sidled close. “You didn’t find your
ticket?” he asked. “Stand over near the
trellis; I’ll go through the barrier, and
when the crowd comes off the next train
I’ll pass my weekly to you.” He did.
Thus two complete strangers restored a
waning faith in human kindness.
DAUGHTER ON THE HOUSE
“N. S. Wales Cabinet says barmaids start at
21 unless they are relatives of licensees, when
they start at 18.”
The age of the barmaid has been
As vague as her final appellative:
“Is she eighty, old boy, or eighteen ?”
The answer has always been relative.
And now it’s more relative still;
At eighteen she can’t have a station
Supplying and swabbing the swill
Unless she’s the landlord’s relation.
But whether she’s aged or lean,
Or a big hulking never-been-
kissed-mass,
She’s the Host’s little girl and
eighteen
If she’ll give me a bottle for
Christmas.
The Pollies and Chloes and Sues,
The Audreys and Daphnes and Millies
Can hardly be blamed if they choose
To always be eighteen-year fjllies :
The publican’s duty is clear ;
He’ll surely consider it lenitive
To he without effort or fear
So Polly- and filly-progenitive.
When ithe old bar-command, “Time,
please, gents!”
Has changed to a brisk, “Age, please,
ladies ?”
What a new bar Mine Host represents
Between what a woman and maid is!
Ah, woman of fashion and wealth,
Who wouldn’t spend money like water
To have men propose as her health,
“She’s only a publican’s daughter”?
But whether she’s aged and lean.
Or a big hulking never-been-
kissed-rnass.
She’s the Hosfs little girl and
eighteen
If she’ll give me a bottle for
Christmas.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Looks like We'll have to go in the Water — that's where the boys are."
ORISBANE’S Fire-prevention Week
** provided the greatest number of fires
in any one week for a year, and kept
firemen too busy attending genuine fires
to have much time to spare for their
numerous displays. Health Week saw an
unusual number of cases reported, while
during Road Safety Week the accident-
rate increased. Perhaps we have the
wrong angle. Such signs as “Drive
faster, or death will overtake you,” or
“Every fire you light means a job for a
fireman,” might help.—“ Vega.”
♦£+
“Siko”: Psychology pays. I got the
tip to push my oil-sales up: and it
worked. Previously when I checked the
oil and said the sump was half-full the
customer drove away happily. Now 1
say “The sump is hall-empty,” and they
all say “Fill her up.”
♦> ♦>
“Bungi”; Craftiest overtime I have
seen a mine-detector put to was in an
old building in Christchurch (N.Z.). The
operator was poking it along the floor
of a long corridor and leaving a trail
of chalklines behind him ; he was a gas-
company man ; he said tracing pipes with
the detector saved him a lot of time,
and floorboards a lot of damage.
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”; Bulletinians searching for an
alternative word for “politician” might
be satisfied with “guffburbler” or “blurb-
pedlar.” But why not something exotic
and romantic, and at the same time de-
scriptive of his calling ? I submit
“fungusto.” A misconception could arise
fromT placing the accent on the first syl-
lable ; it might be thought merely a refer-
ence to the politicians love of merriment
which is to be found in the Parliamentary
bar during vital debates in the House
Certainly the gusto with which he rushes
the free feed and the self-voted increase
in his salary is recognised in the word.
But the real accent should be on
“fungus.”
* ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: How much a bottle? The
Milk Board tells us that it costs about
6d to produce a milk-bottle, and in many
places— Katoomba (N.S.W.) is one—you
have to pay a deposit of 6d. on one of
them; on a bottle of soft-drink there
is a deposit of 3d. ; there is no deposit
on a bottle of beer if you can get one,
and the bottle-oh gives not more than
4d. a dozen for the empties; the grocer
will give you a bottle of vinegar, sauce
or pickles without any deposit, and he
does not care what you do with the empty
bottle. He tells you that even the jam-jar
with the screw-top has no resale value
for him; but if you wish to buy one of
these jars at a hardware store to make
your own jam such a jar will cost you
at least a shilling.
*x* 0 ❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: An anthropologist back
from the Centre says that he found no
authenticated case of the aboriginal
custom of pointing the bone having
been fatal. Well, there are plenty in
English history, among them Sir Richard
Burton, who died on the very day he
had himself predicted when casting a
horoscope of his life.
❖ ♦>
“Alma”: Blue drove the local
policeman home from a party with a
good deal of thought and concentration
and was thanked for his kindness and
complimented on his careful driving.
“But,” added the cop, “there is actually
no need to put out your hand and stop
at the overhead street-lights.”
*** *** *i*
“Wunin”„' The story of invasion-
rehearsals by “A.M.A.” (B. 10/11 /’54)
recalls an air-raid practice one swelter-
ing Sunday afternoon. Sirens wailed and
phones rang stridently. Elderly men,
more remarkable for girth and keenness
than for agility, puffed hither and thither
“Leave it if it's a bother."
with buckets of water and labored at the
stirrup-pumps to extinguish Molotov-
cocktails scattered about the streets from
speeding police-cars. Delivery-vans, sub-
stituting as ambulances, dashed about the
suburb searching out casualties who sat
peacefully in the shade enjoying the sight
of so much activity in the blazing sun.
At the close of the day, when the heads
were reviewing the paper-work, someone
looked up from the casualty-lists.
“What happened to number thirty-nine?”
he asked. “Can’t find him anywhere.”
A hurried car-dash revealed not number
39, but his injury-card hanging from a
fence. It read, in fair print; “Severed
right brachial artery,” and in a scrawl
underneath, “Bled to death at 2.31 p.m.
Am well off home.”
❖ ❖ *
“Hugh Galleon”; Six centuries before
the Sons of Heaven fearfully named the
vengeful Beau-
fighter “the
whispering death”
another weapon
of aerial warfare,
on the other side
of the world, was
known by the
same grim name
—the terrible
flight of “massed
arrows” from
the English longbow. This swiftly rising
cloud of 3000-odd skewer-tipped shafts
was fired high into the air at a range of
some 250yds., to pause at its zenith and
descend in a sighing" shower of destruc-
tion to “nail rider to horse, men to one
another and fallen horse to ground.”
Although it could still outdo the musket
in range, accuracy and hitting-power
until as late as Waterloo, the longbow
went out of favor as a military weapon
from the end of the 16th century, the
newly invented hand-gun being far easier
to handle and master, and making com-
pulsory Sunday and holiday practice
unnecessary. Thus it was that a noted
and plainspoken bishop of the day com-
plained of the manner in which the con-
temporary P. 8.1. spent the extra leisure
afforded them by the general issue of
firearms: “Instead of shooting in the
fields now we have wenching in the
towns” —or words to that effect.
£« *>
“Sister Ellell”: Not all the witty words
and humor belong to the Old Diggers ;
nor are they confined to men. One girl
—O.R. from the Army Nursing Corps
I’ve mentioned before —had resigned to
be married, and a guard-of-honor of
twelve lasses had been promised to do
her proud. The corporal in charge of
the dozen, being also a close friend,
thought she’d nip around about midday
and see how the bride was shaping. Find-
ing her rather twittery and pale, she ex-
horted her with “Excelsior!” and less
publishable words of encouragement;
and, taking her leave, almost fetched up
on her knees on the veranda. The bride
could not have been as completely be-
mused ; she leaned out of the window,
and called, “Mind your step there. Cor-
poral ; I don’t want any blank-files at
my wedding!” /
❖ ❖ ❖
“Karrimba”; Old Collins-street (B.
17/11/”54) also sported the most famous
piece of ironmongery in Australia —
Ogg’s veranda. After months of argu-
ment it came down amid howls of
opprobrium and blah. Now, after a
couple of months, it has been forgotten.
Someone saw it up around the University,
where it may cling to some building until
that, too, is pulled down.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: The woman at the upstairs
window was complaining about the heat
which followed the morning paper’s pre-
diction of a cool day. “You can’t rely
on those forecasts,” said the girl below.
“Now that Mr. Indigo Jones is dead
anything might happen to the weather.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Blanc”; Visiting Melbourne in
August I decided to see my first Aus-
tralian Rules game. Everyone near me
was yelling madly for Carlton, so, to
balance matters, I shouted “Footscray!”
In less than a minute I was the target
of everything that could be thrown, and
every nasty name that Carltonites could
think of —and that was plenty and vivid.
1 tried to explain by shouting: “Fair go!
I know nothing about this game! I’m
from Sydney!” A leader of the crowd
stepped over several and squatted against
me: “So you’re from Sydney! Well, now
you are either Carlton or neutral, and
don’t forget it!” 1 took his advice.
VALEDICTION FOR A TYPE-
WRITER
So here’s the last thing we’ll be writing
together.
Our stiff-jointed, creaking and sad
valediction —
How dull and arthritic you are in wet
weather!
This, then, is full-stop to the fact we
made fiction.
The ultimate tap to our common
invention,
To poem and par., and essay and
story.
Laborious nights and the too - late
intention,
That all tally-up to your query of
glory.
Yet, friend, we’ve enjoyed a per cent, of
acceptance
With shifts of adventure and locks of
rejection.
And over a thirty-point heading we leapt
otice
In capital gusto, soon subbed by
dejection
At subsequent editors’ briefest regrets
with
Some MS. returned; but we went on to
peddle
Our lines on the market and place our rash
bets with
Those plots with whose traps it’s
instructive to meddle.
The times we two shared ( where’s your
warped exclamation ?).
The places we saw (you decrepit
contraption!)
We’ve come through high fervors and
base aggravation
Since first we teamed-up at a country-
town auction.
Recall if you can without strong
lubrication
The day when we tilted at Sydney’s
sharp city
With lines of ingenious alliteration ?
The editor damned them “Improvident
ditty.’’
That evening in Paris? —The Seine-
colored pension.
With old Notre Dame there a floodlit
distraction,
And I full of winelit and Left Bank
declension,
And you in a rowdy key-capering
defection?
The midnight when you, a fallen-star
boarder,
Careered down the stairs like a
Protestant into
Miss Riordan’s Irish illusion of order.
Unnerving half London, the bottom-
floor junto,
And all the lap-dogs the West End
widows carry ? . . .
The day in Colombo the shrewd dhobi-
wallah
Bought you, almost, with a lower-caste
sari ?
But who can shun de-composition, old
fellow ?
Reluctantly here in this spare-bedroom-
corner
I lay you to rest with the shroud
wrapped around you,
And thank your odd gods and this one
maudlin mourner
You’re not going back to the place
where I found you.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


The pick
of t he bunch
since
*847
GhXancb
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
■ Sydney can consider itself surveyed—
with eight Surveyors-General in town
from all States, Canberra and New Zea-
land ; object, the meeting of the Boards of
Surveyors. They’re all pretty seasoned
theodolitians, but John Harvey has sur-
veyed the longest —started in 1914, had a
break of two years (Old Digger) and has
been Queensland’s boss triangulator for
the past quarter of a century,
• •
It’s medico to medico with Major-
General Kingsley Norris handing over
presidency of the Royal Empire Society
to knight John Newman Morris in Mel-
bourne. For long a Red Grosser, Morris
went to the U.K. for the association mid-
War 11, and in passing received from the
Royal College of Surgeons for the Aus-
tralian counterpart a first edition of
Willis’s Anatomy, published in 1664 and
illustrated by Wren, the rebuilder of Lon-
don after the Big Fire. Chairman of the
Victorian B.M.A, for donkey’s years,
Morris has worked for a dozen or so
healing associations —the blood-donors,
the Society for Crippled Children
and the like. Norris can match
him for associations, though his
medical degrees date a bit later; served
in the Owen Stanley campaign, had five
years in the R.E.S. presidency, and is
D.-G. of Army Medical Services.
• •
“Nakh”: There was a spate of quo-
tations of the great sayings of Winston
Churchill on his 80th birthday. The one,
in my opinion, which has the least
flavor of rhetoric and throws more light
on the G.O.M.’s influence on his genera-
tion is a remark he made in the House of
Commons in November, 1942: “I am
certainly not one of those who need to
be prodded. If anything, 1 am the prod.”
• e
Aged sculptors not being in the news
so much as statesmen, there was not much
fuss in Melbourne over John S. Davie’s
recent 92nd birthday. He was the sculp-
tor of two of Australia’s best-known
statues —Bobbie Burns in Canberra, and
Queen Victoria in Geelong. Teacher of
modelling and sculpture at Melbourne
Tech, at the end of last century, he
retired in 1932, after 37 years of it. He
hasn’t caught up yet with modern sculp-
ture. The pieces of wire he saw at a
recent exhibition he mistook for the usual
foundation a sculptor puts up to build
on.
• •
Richard Arnold Rowe has been inter-
ested in shares and scrip almost since he
was in triangular trouser^ —went from a
Ballarat school to the firm of F. W. Holst
and Co., in Collins-street, rose to be
senior partner, became a member of
Melbourne Stock Exchange more than 30
years back, chairman in 1942, and next
year appointed to the chair of the
Associated Stock Exchanges of Australia.
War-time president of the R.A.C.V., he
organised its patriotic fund and its fleet
of war-transport units. Sits on a raft of
directorates of public companies, plays a
good backhand at tennis, and the other
day retired from the Melbourne ’Change
chairmanship. Taking over, Harold
Cuthbert Collingwood, whose figure-work
goes back to 1902, when he became a
licensed Government auditor. Knows a
wrinkle or two of the institution he now
heads —member of it for 46 years,
committeeman for 22.
• •
J. R. Paget, new general-secretary of
the Braille Society for the Blind in
Westralia, gained his administrative
experience in N.S.W., as administrator of
the Anti-T.B. Association, in charge
of arrangements for a building project
to cost £150,000. Pothooks at Guildford
(W.A.) Grammar School, Bachelorship
of Commerce from Melbourne University,
rank of wing-commander from the
War II R.A.A.F.
World-champion billiardist Walter Lin-
drum, who has raised thousands for
charity in Melbourne, has a chance of
trying similar monetary liftings in Asia.
The Burmese delegation which came to
Victoria to study educational aspects of
the Colombo Plan wants sport included,
and they are trying to induce Walter to
take a trip to Burma. At 54, his hand is
as steady as ever.
• •
“Uramao”: Several members of the
Barrymore family were land-owners in
the north of New Zealand. Apparently
sensing journey’s end, Lionel wrote to his
first-cousin once removed, Leslie Blyth,
of Whangarei, last March: “Since you
have taken care of the property it seems
only right to me that you should become
the lawful owner. This letter will act for
me in the event of any act of God inter-
vening before the papers are signed.”
Lionel’s father was Herbert Blyth. He
gave up law in England, crossed to
America, changed his name to Maurice
Barrymore, married actress Georgina
Drew, and had three children —Lionel,
Ethel and John. The grandfather of
these three had gone to New Zealand and
bought 180 b acres in the Manganui dis-
trict, in the far north. The Dominion
segment of the family kept the name of
Blyth, and Leslie managed the property,
which came into the possession of Lionel.
Other members of the grand old actor’s
clan are Misses Mary, Caroline, Nancy
and Minnie Blyth, all resident in Man- •
ganui County.
• •
“In the ACT”: In the Interior Depart-
ment’s theatrette in Canberra a small
group of men saw the official color-film
of the establishment of the Mawson base
in Australian Antarctica, and also the
magnificent film of the Scott expedition
of 40-odd years ago, with an up-to-date
commentary by the photographer him-
self, Herbert Pouting. One of the
watchers was there to get local-color in
FORAGER
advance —T. A. G. Hungerford, whose
official job is with the Bureau of News
and Information, and who is to sail for
Mawson in the Kista Dan when she heads
south this month. On the trip Hunger-
ford will be making notes for articles and
a new novel, but he’ll also be required to
help with cooking, loading and other
chores —not much to worry the ex-
kitchen-hand author of Riverslake. Sig-
nificant aspect of this first official trip of
a writer to the frozen solitudes is that his
work may help to reinforce the Austra-
lian claim to a large sector of the Antarc-
tic, a claim recognised by France, Nor-
way and the British Commonwealth
countries, but not yet accepted by the
U.S. and some other nations.
On Red Page (17/11/’54) Charles
Laseron’s Ancient Australia was favor-
ably noticed as was his The Face of
Australia last year. The reviewer in the
later notice drew a comparison between
the word “unfossiliferous” and a “mouth-
ful of broken false-teeth” ; which drew
this defence from Mr. Laseron:
I know it is unusual for an author to
reply to his critics, but may I put in a plea,
not for myself, but for a good friend of
mine. I refer to “unfossiliferous. ’ P°°r
old unfossiliferous is a sensitive soul, and
like so many words which pride themselves
on belonging to the professional class, he
FOSSICKER
lihes to emphasise the fact that he has no
shorter synonym to take his place, and that
his lineage is of the utmost respectability.
He makes no claim to entry into the more
exclusive circle of higher poetry; in fact he
can do little more than pronounce his own
name. But he can scan, and composed the
following jingle to prove it; —
I searched through a mountain of sandstone,
And of fossils 1 found not a clue.
And the shales interstratified with it
Were unfossiliferous too.
If you have a spare minute please give
him a ring and offer a word of consolation
to his troubled soul.
The Bulletin did, and through him met
Mr. Unfossiliferous Laseron, who adds a
complementary study to his geology-
research of conchology. He has classi-
fied most of the 2000-odd shellfish speci-
mens of the N.S.W. coast for the Austra-
lian Museum and Zoological Society. A
recent publication by the last-named body
contains 264 detailed drawings of shell-
specimens by Laseron, some no bigger
than one-thirtieth of an inch, life-size.
These he views through a powerful glass
during the two-hour drawing operation.
A prolific smoker of matches, he struck
something like half-a-boxful during
Prior’s drawing operation.
• •
Sir Frederick Duncan McMaster, gone
on at 82, was known with exceptional
affection and admiration among those
who knew the extent of his benefactions,
the discernment and discretion which he
showed in making them and the modesty
with which he tried to cloak his connec-
tion with them.
Physically he was a fine figure of an
Australian, more like the general-manager
of a large bank than a pastoralist. His air
of aloofness with strangers stemmed
from an innate shyness and a Scottish
caution. He was generous to a fault, but
in a commonsense way; he made sure
that any cause to which he contributed
was likely to be a business proposition to
the beneficiaries and that it would have
a national as well as sectional value. And
his judgment was sound. The £20,000
he gave in 1932 to enable the C.5.1.R.0.
to form the McMaster Laboratory of
Animal Health at Sydney University has
paid huge dividends, and the £50,000
which he added shortly before his death,
and which will be used to add a wing
to the laboratory, were merely two of a
long series of donations which have done
more than anything to extend the agri-
cultural and animal-husbandry research-
facilities in his native N. S. Wales.
At one time when the wool-industry was
in a bad way he gave the State Govern-
ment 500 Merino rams to be distributed
among needy selectors and small farmers ;
during the depression years he endowed
the C.5.1.R.0. with a much-needed field-
station and later provided a lease of 2000
acres near Liverpool (N.S.W.) to be used
as a research-farm. He was a keen fol-
lower of stud-stock improvement, a tower
of strength in his middle years to the
Royal Agricultural Society’s and other
shows and his own property at Dalkeith,
near Cassilis (N.S.W.), for many years
managed by a company, was a model
which distinguished visitors to the
Commonwealth were shown with pride.
McMaster maintained there an almost
baronial type of hospitality. Many a
soldier had cause to remember his unob-
trusive generosities.
• ®
George Robey, who went so far back
in English theatricals that it’s hard to
think of the London stage without him,
started out first as an engineer (degree
from Cambridge), and, in another line,
if vaudeville hadn’t caught him he might
have been a first-class cartoonist. So
reported The Bulletin about 20 years
back, reproducing as evidence a sketch
of Robey by Robey (culled from Ted
Scorfield’s ragged autograph-book). Also,
persisting with 'painting, the comedian
finally exhibited at the Royal Academy.
The old Alhambra was his main theatri-
cal haunt, which he left for periods in
1914-18, first serving with a motor-trans-
port unit, and subsequently doing a tre-
mendous amount for charity, and gaining
C.B.E. for, as he put it, “bemusing the
troops.” He received the accolade, sitting
in a wheel-chair, this year. Eighty-five at
the end.
• •
Cambridge man N. L. Calhaem has
been lecturing in engineering at Canter-
bury University College (N.Z.) since 1950.
Before tfyat lecturer in electronics at a
technical college allied to London Uni-
versity, earlier still he was mixed up with
electronics —radar-officer in the War II
Royal Navy, and for a time in charge of
maintaining radar equipment in Western
Approaches destroyers and corvettes, on
their return to Liverpool., from Atlantic
convoys. He goes now to Bangor College,
University of Wales.
e e
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 78, Somner B. Nielson, publisher
for more than 30 years of the “West Australian
Worker” (now defunct). Also one-time
instructor in printing at Perth Technical School,
he was particularly helpful to apprentices.
At 104, in Melbourne, Mustapha Kann,
Victoria’s oldest citizen. Born in Egypt, he
came to Australia in 1880 and started a clothing-
factory.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 82, Alfred James
Parker, among the Dominion’s leading analysts
and scientific chemists. Earlier in research-
work in England, on the Continent and in
America, he was chairman of the N.Z. Chemical
Society and a Fellow of the British Chemical
Society ; just before his death he heard that
the British Analytical Society had made him a
life-member in recognition of his work.
At 73, in Sydney, James Hilton Doyle, who
built up a widely-recognised stud property near
Boggabilla (N.S.W.) —Merinos, Poll Herefords
and thoroughbred horses. Earlier a cattleman
in a big way in the Gulf territory, he was
president of the Australian Poll Hereford
Society, on the council of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion and an interested worker for the N.S.W.
New State Movement. His brother, Alec Doyle,
left the land, went to sea, and retired from the
R.A.N. in 1949, engineer rear-admiral.
In Melbourne, at 82, J. R, Barter, seaman,
businessman, for years shipping and insurance
consultant to Broken Hill Pty., twice in the
’thirties president of the Melbourne Chamber
of Commerce. Born in Devon, a life-member
of the Honorable Company of Master Mariners,
he held rank of lieutenant-commander in the
British naval reserve in War I.
In Perth, at 65, Archibald Donald Mclntyre,
businessman and Westralian cricketer, for 30
years president of the W.A. Umpires’ Associa-
tion. Prominent in Freemasonry.
In Sydney, at 45, Martin Warner, high up
in Australian gliding and aircraft-design. A
pioneer of gliding in these parts, he held the
distance gliding record for years, and his height
record of 24,000 ft. has not yet been equalled.
With De Havilland in Sydney for the past 15
years, he was in charge of design of the
Drover, the first all-metal transport aircraft
built here.
In Melbourne, James Paton Beveridge, a Scot
who landed there in 1912 and founded a
printing firm known for its fine color-printing
—his services to the printing industry brought
. him an 0.8. E. He served with the Black Watch
in the Boer War, was a friend of the Prime
Minister —vice-president of the Melbourne
Scots, over whom R. G. Menzies presides.


BEACH UMBRELLA


ABORIGINALITIES
TN his prose translation of Homer’s
“Iliad” the general editor of the
Penguin Classics, E. V. Rieu, has this to
say in Book XXIII, which relates to The
Games:
But when it came to the dauntless
Polypoetes’ turn, he overshot the whole
field by the distance to which a herdsman
can send a boomerang flying on its crooked
course among a herd of cows.
Lord Derby, in his translation in verse,
refers to the herdsman throwing his
“staff.” Whether the herdsmen of
Ancient Greece used the same weapon
as our abos. is a nice point. I have never
seen a reference to it in any classical work
before. —“Tos.”
* * « ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Don’t tell anyone, but
when Mat discovered Greitley, the hearty
big Dutch girl who’d just arrived to
“ Anyway , I made a bigger bang than you when I broke through
the sound-barrier .”
work on the farm up the road from our
fencing job, he got mighty interested,
For about six weeks he kept an eye on
her, and went to that farm every time
he got a chance. Then he gave it away,
Three months later, and 250 miles away,
he gave a self-conscious laugh and said:
“Y’ know what was wrong with that
Dutch sort, she would learn English.” I
waited. “Yair,” he said. “She could
gabble away in Dutch and a man didn’t
even have t’ listen. But once she got on
t’ English—well! ”
“V.J.H.”; My mate and I, wandering
around the icebound slopes of Big Ben
on Heard Island, came across two parallel
lines in the snow. They looked exactly
like sledge-tracks, so we rubbed our eyes
and followed them. They ran downhill
for hundreds of yards, through newly-
fallen snow and over patches of bare ice,
till they came to a crevasse too wide to
jump and too wide for a sledge to nego-
tiate. We made
our way round
the crevasse and
back to the point
opposite where
the tracks had
disappeared. Sure
enough, they
conti n u e d on
their way, head-
ing for a maze of
broken ice-falls
and dangerous
crevasses. There
were no dog-
tracks between
them, the tracks
were exactly the
width of the
sledges used by
the expedition,
and no dog-team
had ever been
taken so high on
the mountain.
There had been
no sledging by
our party up to
that time, be-
cause there had
been no deep snow at sea-level. I’d accept
the marks in the hard ice as faults caused
by “sub-ice” disturbances, but what made
the tracks in soft, fresh snow? Would
it be the Abominable Sledge?
m * « *
“H.C.8.”: Old Dutch Charlie, who
used to work on a pqultryfarm near us,
and who represented the spirit of adven-
ture to the kids whom he entertained
with tales of other lands, had a word for
it when we asked him why he was moving
on. “Ah, always it is so,” he said with
a philosophical shrug. “Ter chob is
goot; ter boys and ter mens is goot; but
when ter dogs stop barking at cher and
ter womans calls cher by ter first name,
then you haf been in one place too, long ;
time it is to moof on.”
* * * *
“Bellfield”: What surprised me about
those possums (B. 3/11/ ’54) was not that
they reverted to gumleaves for tucker,
thus killing all the trees, but that they
ever took to a diet of clover and grass.
no matter how rich. Practically all my
life I’ve owned a possum in the same way
other people keep a cat or dog, but grass
and clover were two items upon which
the various bushytails would waste no
more than a disdainful sniff. And with
domestication came real epicurean dis-
crimination. Young, tender gum-tips that
would have delighted any possum in the
bush had no attraction at all compared
with rose-petals, bananas, grapes, docks
and bread, in that order. Such tastes,
however, only prevailed so long as all was
well gastronomically—rose-petals seemed
to have a decidedly costive action—
when it wasn’t, the most tempting titbits
ran second to Nature’s medicated meal,
the homely gumleaf
• * * •
“Bungi”: Spotlighting for deer is all
the rage these nights around bush saw-
mills and backblocks roads in Westland
(N.Z.). It is common to see the keen type
coming home late at night with the body
of a young spiker, gutted and head re-
moved, slung around the shoulders, the
rifle being carried in one hand and a
powerful torch or accumulator-powered
“I hope he gets a puncture."
car-spotlight in the other. Next day the
carcass is sewn-up in a sack and sent down
to the railhead on the first timber-lorry.
It’s worth £5-£6. A Christchurch firm is
exporting venison carcasses as a delicacy
for U.S. gourmets.
* * * #
“Bass”: If William Boyd read the
Hopalong Cassidy comic-strip running in
some Australian dailies he probably
cabled the artist a few facts about this
country. In the strip Hopalong has pur-
sued some horse-thieves halfway across
America and, having cornered them, has
belted a confession out of the leader.
And where are them thar horses?
They’ve been “smuggled aboard the
Vulture —Pier 14—sailin’ at midnight for
Sydney, Australia.” The artist probably
wouldn’t know about the hundreds of
walers shipped from Sydney to the British
remount-depots in India, or the big con-
signment of bush-horses' that were
rounded-up and sent tb Thailand last
year, or the thousands of brumbies run-
ning over Westralia’s coastal plains and
inland. But the editor could have changed
it sent the nags to Derby or
Wyndham. Horses are scarce and dear
in the Kimberleys, where the walkabout
disease takes a higher toll than is gener-
ally known.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: A National Service voca-
tional-guidance officer, interviewing boys
at a Westralian goldfields school, learned
that most desired trades, professions or
positions in commercial houses, except
one, who did not seem interested in any
type of work suggested, causing the
officer to ask him rather testily if he
expected to grow up useless and of no
value to the community. “No,” replied
the lad, “I’ll take over the business that’s
been in our family since the ’fields
started. My grandfather runs it now ;
when he dies it’ll be left to my father.
I’ll work for him, then, picking up the
pennies, and when he dies the game’ll be
left to me. I’ll bet my income’ll be
greater than any of the other boys here,
and I’ll just have to say, ‘A fiddly in the
guts to see him go, and take out a boxer
if he head ’em.’ ”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Point Lonsdale, the
low brushwood-covered headland at the
western extremity of the tide-whipped
entrance to Port Phillip, is losing one of
its historic landmarks —the cave of
Buckley, the “wild whiteman.”
They’ve been filling-in the historic hole
because erosion has been creeping
up on the tall white lighthouse
rising aboj/e the shining sands, in 1803
the convict William Buckley, then one of
Lieut.-Governor Collins’s body-servants
at the abortive settlement at Sorrento,
slipped away with three others and
walked right around the bay to avoid
capture. Buckley, who was 6ft. 6in. tall
and who had been a private in the 4th
Regiment before conviction for receiving,
was an imposing figure, and the Geelong
tribe of blacks, thinking he was one of
their kin reincarnated, took him into
the tribe. It was not till 32 years later
that he was picked up at Indented Head
by Batman’s party.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Though Southern abos
have been said here to have had no
legends of floods, those of the N.T.
have one. According to the old men of
the tribes, back in the “dream-time”
everyone lived at peace; there was
ample food, and it was a happy
place. But gradually evil crept
in; men began fighting among them-
selves ; they slew the animals, not for
food only but with sheer blood-lust for
slaughter; and the animals preyed on
each other. Then came flood-rains,
till all the lower lands were covered,
and many animals and men perished.
The survivors climbed up on the
hills, but still the rains fell; soon only
the topmost branches of the tallest trees
on the highest hills remained above the
floods. When the rains ceased the floods
abated, and the few men and animals
who had survived came down from their
perches to the land again. Even today the
old men of the Adelaide River tribes
will show you, well up on their highest
hills, the marks, still remaining on the
rocks, showing where once that Great
Flood had been.
* * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: One of the
shrewdest comments on behavior of
aborigines in W.A. was made by the
State’s first Church of England arch-
deacon, John Ramsden Wollaston. He
set down that he once rode through
“the largest concourse of natives”
he’d ever seen ; “women fighting, and
then the men”: “The former,” he com-
mented, “are, after all, the only parties
in right earnest with their sticks—the
latter’s bluster is evident —but thought
it best to hasten my horse’s legs out of
the way of the spears.” Having seen
fights like tljat, I’d say he was right.
* * *. *
“Old-timer”: The boss put Dorset on
wise old Dusty and told him to separate
the two cows and calves. “Cut the cows
out and run ’em round till they knock-
up,” the boss said. “The calves’ll follow.
Ignore ’em. When the cows look like
turning it up work ’em towards the gate.
When they do turn it up open the gate
and rush the calves through it. Right?”
“Right!” said Dorset. Two hours later
he walked into the homestead. He’d got
on all right, it seemed, till the piebald
calf, dazed but still full of running, got
its head against Dusty’s off-side flank
and galloped and turned with him,
doubtless believing it was running with
its mother. Dusty stood this for some
time; then, used to calves, simply
stopped. Horse and calf stood side by
side, blowing, and Dorset sat there, blow-
ing and baffled. When Dusty refused to
move Dorset hit him with the spurs.
Dusty looked round severely at Dorset,
then sat down. Dorset got off, whereupon
the calf staggered to him and began to
slobber and nuzzle. It was a big calf.
Dorset saw the mother, recovered,
coming towards him with fire in her
eye. So he walked out on it. “Whyinell,”
the boss roared, “didn’t y’ do what Dusty
did? Sit down and wait.” Dorset’s fair
face flushed. “Is that another of the
customs of this maddening country!” he
bleated, and went disgustedly to pack
his bag. /
THE APPLE-GUM
Old father tree stands firmly toed in mud
beside the pool of neither drought nor flood,
it seems one level always, coffee-brown,
though every day the dairy cows come down.
Far out his easy, twisted branches spread,
and underneath and on his shaggy head
such constant comings and goings one might dub
him socially elect, a kind of club.
For here all sorts of Jiving creatures come:
a pair of magpies claim it as a home;
two sparrowhawks wheel round with silly cries
like fussy spinsters till a raven flies
exasperated putting them to rout;
(some days, indeed, it seems there has stepped
out
from Mr. Cayley’s pages every bird);
and every day comes down the Friesian herd.
Sometimes a slinking fox, as quick as wink;
sometimes a snake lies sunning on the brink;
and often Farmer Miles astride his mare
stops by to light his pipe—and lingers there;
and young “Doc” Wilson, spread out like a
map,
supposedly at study, takes a nap,
or studies clouds and daydreams, head on arm,
the while his books vacation at the farm.
Here Jim and Jeffrey, coming home from school,
shin up and out to hang above the pool,
or scramble high until they reach their lair
of hessian, tin—whatever they have there.
When moonlight paints his branches on the grass
for sure there’ll be a lover and his lass;
and in the silence later something slaps
upon the pool—the bunyip there, perhaps?;
but in the morning early, Mitty Brown,
with hair in eyes and panties creeping down,
races around the trunk with Jinx, the dog,
or plays with mud or jumps the fallen log;
and soon the browsing cows will come this way
where the old tree, attendant night and day,
returns the hours uncounted one by one
to his next moon, his sure, familiar sun.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


f/iefr.
*r« AU-tRITISH
the finest Pens-the Greatest Value
<tm> STEWART a CO. LTD. I 0 I D 0 H
S. W. RAMSAY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
N 9 58
60/-
OTHER MODELS
Prices from
25/- to 65/-
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
o'suixivav . /
V T?«s« msST Vf = '
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
TOLLEY’S
TST
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
M'-i 1(1'
nr'i i
iM
8sI;:,h!
ffiiil
YOU’LL FEEL
TIP-TOP ON
TOLLEY’S
m
m
(v', '\-a
•HANDY
TOLLtY *C Ot
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
T5T.33.12
A TASMANIAN, applying for sick-
leave, explained: “Head injury was
caused when holding lantern while wife
cut the wood. Axe caught in the clothes-
line and the back of the axe struck my
head.” Motto: Don’t have woodheap
too close to washing-line.—“Birubi.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: There were oodles of mush-
rooms about after the rain as we tramped
over the row-paddocks. Lanky, an old
mushroomer, stooped, picked one, sniffed
it critically, then flung it from him in
disgust. “You can give it away, mate,”
he said flatly, “They’re full of iodine ;
make you crook if you eat ’em. They
sometimes get like that round here after
a dry spell.” Now, how should the
fungi acquire that characteristic?
♦ * * *
“Bogaduck”: The ancient Gyppos paid
tribute to the pest-destroying powers of
the ibis (B. 17/11/’54) by elevating it
to sacred status. In South Australia the
swamps at the south end of 800 l Lagoon,
out from Naracoorte, are the birds’ main
breeding-ground. They nest on a small
platform of dry reed-stalks, with green
rushes pulled across the top to make a
kind of roof. It’s a bird-sanctuary, and
in the breeding-season they’re there in
thousands. There are three species:
straw-necked, white and glossy. Ibis
locate tucker-supplies by going for long
flights at a great height, and they note
where rain has fallen recently, as revealed
by the color of young grass; irrigated
land has the same appearance. It is there
they turn on a “recco” and if the pros-
pect pleases they get the good word hack,
apparently by courier, to the main army.
♦ * * *
“Sebak”: Can’t give a positive reason
for the abo.’s inability to express grief
(B. 10/11/’54), but there could be a
physical explanation. White people have
“ Someone's elevation's Wrong — where's the gun-position officer?”
been known to have such an affliction.
One case was that of an N.S.W. country
girl who couldn’t cry even on the death
of a loved sister. Her doctor explained
that she had no tear-ducts, and so was
deprived of the natural emotional outlet.
* * * *
“Wai-hoi”: Donkeys, goats and camels
cause greater destruction of pasture in
nor’-Westralia’s sheep-country than kan-
garoos (B. 10/11/’54). They are in great
numbers, too, descendants of animals that
went bush when their employment
around Pilbarra in carting firewood for
the mines cut out. I spent a night some
years ago at Warralong, a run of 336,000
acres north of Marble Bar owned by
F. T. Hardie, A drought was then in its
second year, but the owner worried much
less about that than about the damage
done by wild camels, goats and donks.
Old bull-camels fighting along the fences
knocked them over and allowed sheep to
get out in the desert country, where they
soon died.
* * * ♦
“Quo Vadis”: I can attest that
vibration doesn’t worry termites (B.
3/11/ ’54). I used to help print a country
paper on an ©ld cylinder-press which
was simply bolted to the flooring. The
growl and thunder of the machine when
the rack and pinion were engaged could
be heard two blocks away, and the
whole ancient building quivered and
shook. Termites built up on the outside
of the iron legs of that press, and we
discovered them one day crawling over
the feed-board. I have known termites
to tunnel along building-plates until they
entered a store-room, there to demolish
their favorite fruit, silky-oak. The other
timbers were either ignored or used solely
as a means of transit.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The theory that the
accumulation of ice at the Poles builds
up every 8000 years sufficiently to over-
turn the globe and establish new Poles
and an Equator (B. 27/10/’54) might be
proved one way or the other soon. H. A.
Brown, the hydrographer who advanced
the theory, reckons the world’s getting a
bit wobbly now, and that ''there’s just
about enough ice at the Poles to tip the
scales. There’s an American research-
team in Antarctica, and Enzed Premier
Holland is said to be worried over the
chances of their being there to touch off
an atomic explosion. If they do, and
Brown’s theory is right, the extra jolt
may provide just that extra kick which
could explain a lot of things, like the
various great floods and seashells
12,000 ft. up the Andes. It would be the
most interesting event for 8000 years,
and .we’d all be in grandstand seats.
Lucky, aren’t we?
* * * *
“Kelms”; Knowledge gained from
atom-bomb research will help in Aus-
tralia when a huge cooling-tower of the
type used by the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commis-
sion is installed in the
Latrobe River (Vic.) to
cool water which flows
back into the river after
passing through the steam-
condensers of the Yal-
lourn turbo - generators.
This water, emerging hot
from the condensers, is
raising the temperature of
the river by anything up
to 30 degrees ; the cooling-
tower is to handle 11,000
tons of it an hour and
reduce it from 120 to 95
degrees. The tower will
be the largest in Aus-
tralia, will have eight
20ft.-diameter fans to
draw air into it and two
800-h.p. motors to pump
the hot water to the top.
From there it will drop
through porcelain nozzles
over a network of wooden
strips. Californian red-
wood, claimed to be the
only timber suitable, will
be used. It doesn’t pro-
duce fungoid growth, has
no knots, is easily worked
and doesn’t warp even
when waterlogged or intermittently
wet and dry. The 440 tons needed will
be imported in logs and milled here. It’s
thought to be the biggest consignment
of redwood to be brought into Australia.
♦ * * *
“Simon”: The most fearsome situation
to be in as a kid is to have a back seat
on a double-banked bolting pony. You
are too close even to see. the back-hair
of the kid in front, so you don’t know
where you are going, and there is a dual
sensation: one, that you are sliding on
to the horse’s neck preparatory to going
over his ears, the other that you are
rapidly slipping backward over the
neddie’s tail.
GINOONDAN-BAN BAN SPRINGS
The road was dusty out by Ginoondan
And the bush bare; but in the morning cool,
The birds sang all around the little school,
Standing secluded by the wayside, where
Ihe road turns off to Byrnestown, Wetheron.
The pre-class laughter of young children ran
In tune with clear notes of the butcher-bird
And magpies’ song;
And as 1 came along,
On bare brown legs and twinkling feet they came
lo line the fence and call and wave to me;
Asked for my name;
Laughed at my shaggy, shambling old pack-
horse ;
(And I laughed back of course.
Delighted at their inquisitiveness);
A jackass, from an overhanging tree,
Joined in the general glee.
And never was a merrier company:
And as I plodded on,
Heading for Ban Ban Springs,
My heart was lighter and my thought had wings.
* £ h e springs within the heat of day;
A wide and lush expanse of watercress,
Breaking the barren brownness of the way;
A spreading skirt of verdant loveliness;
An emerald oasis in a waste;
Green jewel on the country’s bare, brown breast;
A place of bird-songs, and a place to rest.
The water bubbling from the hard, black stone
Was cold as rills that rise in mountain snows;
The mustard-tangy taste
Of the fresh cress was hot upon my tongue;
My horses, belly deep,
Tore hungry mouthfuls where it spreads and
grows
Thickly across the pool; and there, alone,
a re u vell6d * n /be rapture of the young
At heart awhile; forgot awhile my care,
And made myself a memory to keep.
It seems it was a long, long time ago—
How long I do not know—
But yesterday a map-name seen by chance,
Caught in a fleeting glance.
Brought it all back and set me wondering
ff Ban Ban Springs still bubble clear and cool,
And whether children play, while magpies sing,
Around Ginoondan’s little wayside school.
N.S.W,
HUI TE RANGIORA.


jFaiUt in the
fultmc
When the rains come down in the Northern
Territory all is movement in Nature.
A few days, and grass is shooting in a way
that makes me marvel at the life that has been held
in root and seed in the dry season that has gone.
To behold the Northern Territory then,
garmented in green, is to see it in the real
Australian perspective.
A huge place, the Northern Territory: Its
523,000 square miles cover per cent, of our
whole continental mass. It is 214,000 square miles
larger than New South Wales.
Its richness is in land pockets. The four main
pastoral districts are;
Around Alice Springs, where one of my own
company interests, on a property of 2600 square
miles, has proved just what can be done in raising
and fattening beef cattle when water is conserved
and pastures are improved;
On the Barkly Tableland, which juts into
Queensland near Camooweal;
On the Victoria River to the north-west, where
much of the grassland is permanently watered;
And in the Darwin-Gulf area.
The whole Territory now is running slightly
more than a million beef cattle, roughly one-tenth
of the Australian total. That number could be
substantially increased, for surveys have established
that half of the area is capable of producing beef.
Lack of surface transport is a limiting factor
to fuller production. More roads, road-trains and
a rail link or two could solve that.
But looking further —for we have to think in
modem terms in developing Australia—l see the
possibilities in large air freighters for bringing out
our Territory beef to the world.
• Air lifts in quantity, in big freighters, seem
to me to be the ultimate answer. They would be
economical, co-ordinated with lifts by smaller
units.
And I believe they will come, as surely as man
has learnt to fly; as surely as grass springs up after
rain.
////(isfu^ps
a
Circular Charts for ail ijrpw
of Recording Instruments
foe an f clou ot M«cK»nory
METE# CHARTS • Spoeiofcy
JACiraON S 0 SIiLUVAN%La:
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
TO ANY EXECUTIVE
FROM THE DOCTOR
Despite your 40 odd years, your
general condition is good.
That feeling of tiredness,
always battling to cope, is a
common complaint among
fellows in your kind of job; it
is a combination of mental
and nervous strain which, in
your case, has not yet become
critical, but which eventually
may lead to high blood pres-
sure. The cause is just one of
the penalties of modern
business life.
In order to show how the
cause operates, I would require
to detail your general be-
haviour from the moment you
arise till you retire at night.
Briefly, it is the mind operating
on the daily round, supplying
the answers to a multifarious
collection of problems, all
associated with your job,
immediate or future.
The situation is aggravated
by Trying To Carry the Load
Mentally till it is relieved by
dictating to your secretary, or,
writing it all down while it is
hot.
The simple cure — Why You
Have Not Done It Before
Eludes Me! —the simple cure
is to have one of those dictat-
ing contraptions in your home
and in your office.
As each problem arises, you
talk it out with the micro-
phone (have a look at the
Dimafon mike), thus relieving
your mind so that you can
forget it until it is transcribed.
You See The Point! The
speed with which you can
Relieve The Mind of the prob-
lem, the security you give the
mind now that the machine is
carrying the load. Reduce The
Pressure; a relaxed mental
state follows, the blood
resumes its natural ebb and
flow; mind and body are
“toned” up —invigorated—and
you are ready for anything.
My advice is: get dictating
equipment prices, compare
them with my fees, plus 1
month only in a sanitarium
at £lOO, plus the incidental
expenditure associated there-
with, and you will agree that
dictating equipment is easily
cheaper.
I recommend Dimafon for
its simplicity and operation,
high fidelity and economy—
of course it is up to you.
INCIDENTALLY, Chartres Ltd. are the
DIMAFON Agents, ring M 0425
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Bargains Coming?
With the closing-date of the
Commonwealth cash-and-con-
version loan extended (the cash
portion closed on Saturday), with
credit-tightening becoming more
obvious, with hire-purchase cos.
offering 6 p.c. and 7 p.c. for
two-year deposits, and with
export prices still uncertain,
Australian sharemarkets have
shown a quiet tone for the past
two weeks.
A purely “market” factor
entering into investment sup-
port has been the collapse in
W.A. oil-shares and the slump
in most uranium-shares. (These
developments were forecast
months ahead in The Bulletin,
and in particular in the issue of
August 4, 1954.) Though the
fortunes of industrial enter-
prises are not at this moment
particularly dependent on oil
and uranium prospects, support
for industrial shares is to an
extent influenced by the
“morale” of the mining market.
The sufferings of the mining
speculator are not insulated
from the industrial investor.
Often they are Siamese-twins.
Consumer - credit facilities
may have a direct influence on
the sales of some manufacturers
within the next six months. And
some industries which have
cashed-in on a long-unsatisfied
demand are beginning to wonder
when saturation-point will be
reached. Such an industry is
the refrigerator trade. It
appears to be particularly vul-
nerable to some setback before
long.
It has risen to a high peak of
prosperity with the help of low-
deposit hire-purchase facilities
and a wide first-customer
demand. Production in 1953-54
was 276,000 refrigerators, repre-
senting an all-time high. Total
output in 1954-55 may be even
higher. But .the available market
may shrink,’and competition is
already becoming keener.
From a long-term point of
view, refrigerators are now
increasingly regarded as a
household necessity, and well-
managed factories are here to
stay.
The outlook of manufacturing
industry as a whole is favorable.
One of the chief dangers is
actually underproduction in key
industries, not overproduction.
Shortage of steel, bricks, tiles,
cement, galvanised-iron, wire-
,netting and water-piping are
tending to hold-up other indus-
tries, to waste time and to
increase costs.
Most factories during the six
ninths ending on December 31
will have had a period of record
production and sales. Topping
their previous records are the
steel, alkali, paint, metal-cast-
ings, copper, cement, fibrous-
plaster, motor-vehicle, motor-
tyre and electric-motor indus-
tries; among others.
The basic industries, such as
steel and cement, appear to have
an assured long-term demand
ahead of them. But concerns
making durable and semi-
durable consumer-goods are
bound to find demand irregular
as time goes by. Supply and
demand are variable factors,
especially where the product
being manufactured may have
a life of 10 years, and replace-
ments are correspondingly infre-
quent.
In a few Australian industries
manufacturing capacity exceeds
demand. Woollen textiles are
in abundant supply, and it is
only the well-established con-
cerns that *are making reason-
able profits. The financial
strength of concerns like Yarra
Falls and Australian Woollen
Mills stands out in these circum-
stances. And in the cotton-
textile section Bradford Cotton’s
ability to cope with prevailing
problems is shown in its recent
increase in the div. from 10 p.c.
to 12i p.c.
Trading for all kinds of enter-
prises may be simplified after
December 31 by Victoria’s
abandonment of price-control.
N.S.W. may be forced to follow.
The present is a time for
investors to watch the market.
There could be bargains to be
picked up during the next few
months. It certainly is not a
time to pay full price for “pros-
pects.” “Prospects” may be
offered more cheaply until the
credit situation and other com-
plicating factors clear-up in the
minds of investors already
shaken by the market crash in
mining-shares.
Rough Range in Retrospect
L. Owen writes: With the
final proof that Rough Range
No. 5 well is a dry hole —that
is, down to the “discovery”-
sand horizon —the search for oil
in Western Australia’s North-
west Basin enters a new, and
probably a more promising,
phase.
The striking of a pocket of
crude petroleum —unexpected
from the geological view-
point, and premature from
any angle except that of
the gambler—has constituted
a major obstacle to the sane
exploration of the Exmouth Gulf
area.
A most costly consequence
was the immediate adoption of
“developmental” technique in
the location of the Rough Range
wells long before any real
evidence justified that policy. I
lay no claim to any inside
information as to what occurs at
the regular consultations between
Wapet’s technical experts, but I
feel certain that the senior
geologists, with long and world-
wide experience behind them,
were not at all happy as to this
aspect of the search.
It is, of course, very easy to
be wise after the event, but a
comparison of what I have stated
in these columns, from the end
of 1953 onwards, with the inter-
views with, and the articles
written by, some others in the
daily and Sunday papers over
the same period, should absolve
me from that charge.
A foregone conclusion is that
Government and public clamor
for intensive drilling, in the hope
of quick results and with the
object of making Australia
independent of imported
petroleum products, forced
Wapet’s hand. Had that
company not drilled shallow
wells to the allegedly “proved”
oil-sand, it, doubtless, would have
been accused —as every major
oil company has been at one
time or other —of delaying pro-
duction in order to keep up the
price of petrol and petroleum
derivatives generally.
As it is, the possibility of strik-
ing commercial oil has been
delayed several months, and the
position is very much as it was
in 1950. None can deny the
value of the data obtained in
the drilling of the Rough Range
wells; neither, however, could
any knowledgeable expert deny
that those data could have been
obtained—had it been recognised,
at the start, that the Rough
Range No. 1 oil was a geological
freak —with less expenditure of
time and money. In such case,
the objective would not then have
been confined merely to defining
the- limits of the 3605 ft. oil-
“pool.”
The statement by Wapet that
any decision as to future
activities in the Rough Range
area will not be made until its
geologists in Perth and New
York have re-examined all the
known information is both
welcome and reassuring. The
path ahead will not be an easy
one. Petroleum-geology is a
highly specialised subject, and
long experience in the field is
required for a reasonable chance
of solving problems brought
about by Nature’s many devia-
tions from “textbook” condi-
tions. At Rough Range there is
the added complication of exten-
sive migration—and the study of
petroleum-migration is a very
specialised section of petroleum-
geology.
I may be forgiven, therefore,
for again pointing out that the
recognition of the Rough Range
No. 1 oil as a “fossil” seepage
of a migrated, micro-filtered and
inspissated petroleum crude
allows of a logical explanation of
the failure of wells Nos. 2 to 5,
and of the fact that a strati-
graphical (or even a structural)
“high”—probably formed before
active seepage ceased —was
coincident with that mani-
festation.
Price-control Shock
The Holhvay Liberals in the
Victorian Upper House having
refused to agree to a continuance
of price-control after December
31, controlled prices come to an
end in Victoria with the end of
1954. And that will mean that
goods which can be readily
transported will have to be
decontrolled in N. S. Wales as
well. Which virtually means the
end of price - control in
Australia.
It is over 15 years since
price-control first became opera-
tive as a Federal war-time
measure. With the running-out
of the Commonwealth defence
powers, and the refusal of the
people to perpetuate them, price-
control was taken over by the
States. It has long outlived its
usefulness, and has become
largely a political—partly a
socialistic —weapon.
Freedom of prices should
stimulate production and
encourage investment in new
production-facilities.


Company Meeting
A YEAR OF ECONOMIC PROGRESS
At the ordinary general meeting of proprietors of the Bank of
New South Wales held in Sydney on November 26, the President,
the Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E., said that Australia had
enjoyed a year of steady economic progress and widespread
prosperity accompanied by a stability in costs and prices all
too rare in recent years. New Zealand had also experienced
a prosperous year.
Balance Sheet
The Bank’s deposits rose by
£29,000,000 to £454,000,
000, and advances by
£61,000,000 to £257,000,
000 during the year ended
September 30. This large
movement was indicative of
the active demand for finan-
cial assistance to promote
development. A fall in liquid
and near liquid assets of
£25,000,000 to £216,000,
000 in consequence of the
demand for advances, and
an increase in the special
account with the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia of
£7,100,000 to £76,400,000,
which sum cannot be utilized
in the Bank’s business
without the central bank’s
approval, had compelled a
restrained lending policy in
Australia.
The net profit of the Bank
for the year was £1,491,000,
being £374,000 higher than
last year. This improvement
arose both from the expan-
sion of the Bank’s business
and from employment of
additional capital subscribed
by proprietors.
During the year, the
capital of the Bank was in-
creased by the issue of
219,500 snares of £2O each
at a premium of £7/10/0,
raising paid up capital to
£13,700,000. The Reserve
Fund, to which share pre-
miums were credited, also
benefited from a transfer of
£1,000,000 from the Re-
serve for Contingencies
which, in the opinion of the
Directors, was no longer
required for this purpose.
A further appropriation of
£103,750 from the year’s
profits raised the total of
the Reserve Fund to
£10,000,000.
Pursuing its active policy of
extending representation
wherever there is need for
banking facilities, the Bank
increased the number of its
branches and agencies by 31
to 906 during the year.
Banking Policy
Commenting on banking
policy, Sir Colin said:—
“It is a prime function of
the central bank to have
authority and power to in-
fluence the credit base and
therefore the volume of
business that can be financed
by the trading banks. In
our opinion, however, the
existing form of banking
control is conceived and
consequently administered in
an unnecessarily restrictive
spirit. The maintenance of
control in its existing form
might well stifle the part
the trading banks are
equipped to take in national
development.
“Complete confidence within
the banking system is es-
sential to the efficient and
adaptable operation of the
credit machinery, but it can
hardly exist while the con-
trols are applied with
considerable rigour for
reasons which are not fully
clear. Moreover, that confi-
dence can never be complete
while central bank power is
wielded by an authority
which at the same time di-
rects the trading operations
of a competitor bank. This
serious anomaly calls for a
comprehensive review of the
existing banking legislation
in the interests of the whole
structure of free business
enterprise and national
growth.”
Business Prospects
In his general review of
business conditions in Aus-
tralia, Sir Colin remarked
on the achievement of
comparative stability during
the past year, which he
said was all the more re-
markable and welcome
because it occurred amid
conditions of continued
material progress and busi-
ness expansion. The
confidence prevailing at
the outset had been
thoroughly justified by
events. But several influ-
ences had emerged which
might well disturb the
position in the future,
among them a probability
of renewed inflationary
pressure and the dangers
of further cost increases,
particularly for the export
industries. He expressed
confidence, however, that
Australian economic expan-
sion could be expected to
continue in spite of any
temporary set-backs.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5440A
GRAFTON
BREWING CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 7th March, 1949)
Registered Office: NORTH STREET, GRAFTON
ISSUE OF 150,000
CUMULATIVE
PREFERENCE
SHARES AT PAR
2
ISSUE NOW OPEN
APPLICATION FORMS
And copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained from: —
Any Branch of Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia, Members of any
recognised Stock Exchange and Registered Office of Grafton Brewing Co. Limited.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY AND FOR THE ISSUE:
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
, i
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment is
£150,000. Applications for Preference Shares of this issue will be received only on one
of the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon the printed copy of the
Prospectus. This is an abridged Prospectus only and does not comply with the
provisions of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of New South Wales.
COSTS. MONEY AND INTEREST-RATES
TN the opinion of the Bank of
N. S. Wales’s chairman (Sir
Colin Sinclair), possibilities of
further cost-increases serve to
accentuate the difficulties that
may arise from current prospects
of the balance-of-payments.
The recent high rate of imports
decried by some manufacturers
may have been partly encouraged
by high costs in' Australia, but
on the whole the imported goods
are providing the economy with
useful additional supplies which
will help to damp-down any
inflationary pressure. More
serious is the possible effect of
high costs on the competitive
position of export industries.
Widening competition in over-
seas markets is already threaten-
ing the ready sale at profitable
priges of some of the smaller
Australian export commodities.
Export proceeds were also
reduced by slow sales of wheat
and lower prices for metals.
Thus Australia faces the
prospect of a deficit in the
balance - of - payments, arising
from both an increase in imports
and some decline in export
income. Such a situation is not
uncommon in Australian experi-
ence, and the country enters it
with its currency reserves in a
healthy condition. But the dis-
turbing thought is what might
happen if the automatic reduc-
tion in demand caused by these
changes is confronted by internal
cost-inflation generated by
extravagant investment plans or
by a resumption of wage-
increases.
Recent doubts about the
course of overseas trade and the
growing problems of both
exporters and local manufac-
turers have led to discussion of
the necessity for reviving some
of the controls over the economy,
many of which have been only
recently discarded or relaxed.
Sir Colin is strongly opposed
to anything of the kind. Such
action, he says, even if defence
commitments have to be stepped
up, would be no more than \&
confession of helplessness and
defeat, an inability or unwilling-
ness to face adjustments which
may give rise to temporary hard-
ships, but which would eliminate
many of the distortions of the
economic system.
The fact is that security and
stability cannot be bought by
trying to shelter every producer
behind a barrier of restrictions.
It is more important, and in the
long run much less costly, to be
prepared to meet market diffi-
culties. The experience of many
democratic countries since the
war well illustrates the fact that
official interference with the
market mechanism is usually too
heavy-handed and too late to
bring about the desired results,
and causes far more disturbance
than the numerous correctives
and compensating actions of
individual traders. A greater
willingness on the part of the
producer or trader to rely on
himself and a greater reluctance
On the part of government to
interfere in economic processes
would go some distance towards
restoring the advantages of com-
petition after years of artificial
shelter. This approach is all the
more necessary for Australia
now that commodity markets
abroad have been restored almost
entirely to private trading.
Whatever the immediate diffi-
culties that are likely to appear
regarding both cost-adjustments
and tighter money conditions
resulting from less favorable
overseas trading, Australian
economic expansion can con-
fidently be expected to continue
in spite of any temporary set-
backs. It will require a per-
sistently high rate of new invest-
ment and will need a re-examina-
tion of the sources of new finance
both at home and abroad.
The flow of overseas capital
for investment purposes in Aus-
tralia in recent years has not
been significantly high, and
perhaps the bulk of it came in on
Government account, although
private investment last year
received some stimulus from the
evidence of oil. Nevertheless,
new share-capital issued by Aus-
tralian public companies in the
last financial year was the highest
for three years. One might ask,
however, whether the significance
of new savings and the necessity
of appropriate conditions for a
large volume of new savings and
for the right types of investment
are adequately realised. The
preservation of cost-stability is
an essential factor, and the
chance of earning an appropriate
reward is also a basic element
if the creation of capital is not to
become a monopoly of the State
enforced through heavy taxation
and controls. Moreover, the
direction of investment will be
determined by the attractiveness
of the reward, and it is possible
that recently too large a propor-
tion of new capital has gone into
high-yielding consumer-industries
and similar investments rather
than into the basic industries on
which future development so
much depends but whose yields
have been much lower.
The larger proportion of
national income which has been
devoted to investment in recent
years has also brought about a
growth and a greater diversi-
fication of the money market.
The sources of borrowing for
industry and commerce have
widened, particularly in the short-
and medium-term fields, and the
use of debentures and notes and
the acceptance of deposits have
become’ more widespread. To
some degree this sophistication
and specialisation of the money-
market is bound to continue as
the economy develops and
expands, and it will inevitably
produce an impact on the bank-
ing system. But it also produces
fresh responsibilities for many
who have previously had little
financial experience. Recent
expansion in facilities for
financing consumer goods, for
example, quite apart from its
potential economic effects,
demands the continued accept-
ance of standards very similar
to those which have become
traditional to bankers, both to
safeguard those who have lent
the funds and to preserve the
stability of the business.
Many of the problems and
anomalies that have arisen in the
provision of capital and working
funds for business and industry
can be attributed at least partly
to the authorities’ inflexible
attitude towards the functions of
the rate of interest. It is only
natural for borrowers to seek
funds from the cheapest source,
and no amount of exhortation
will persuade businessmen to
take, in more capital if their
requirements can be met by
bank-borrowing at lower rates.
Nevertheless, in the opinion
of Sir Colin Sinclair, the mone-
tary system of Australia is
strong, and is supported by ade-
quate resources. Although the
credit situation today is tighter
than for some time, the long
experience of the banks and
their sound position give
promise that, if not unduly
fettered, they can continue to
play a large constructive part
in future Australian economic
expansion.
Twelve months ago the trad-
ing banks were in a comfortable
state of liquidity, which im-
proved steadily as the export
season gathered momentum.
After March, however, the flow
was strongly in the opposite
direction, as increasing imports
accentuated the normal end-of-
the-year movements in advances
and deposits. Considering the
stability of prices, these move-
ments would represent a genuine
expansion in economic activity
rather than any degree of infla-
tion, in the opinion of the
’Wales. The result was a sub-
stantially diminished liquidity.
The central bank has kept the
special accounts close to the
maximum amount it is allowed
to call and *has also pressed the
banks to maintain their free
liquid assets at about 25 p.c. of
deposits. With the special
accounts in September equiva-
lent to about 23 p.c. of deposits,
the maintenance in addition of
such a high ratio of free liquid
assets ignores the realities of
seasonal movements and the
positive part the banks must play
in development of the Australian
economy through the time-
honored system of flexible
advances. It appears only too
evident, in the opinion of Sir
Colin Sinclair, that the central
bank bases its theories on an
experience which may not be
entirely appropriate to dynamic
expansion. Whatever the policy
reasons, the lending ability of
the trading banks has been
curbed for the time being by
the fall in liquid assets under
their own control to 18 p.c. of
deposits in September. Such
tighter credit-conditions will
continue to exist until liquidity
improves either from increasing
deposits, which may be a slower
process this year, or until the
central bank releases funds
from special accounts.


£
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Symc; A. R. L. Wiltshire.
General Managers W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.C., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heifer;
W. Sydney Jones; Allan G. Potter.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklet .
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938 trucsb
The WIE CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
TPHE long-awaited issue of bonus-scrip
has been announced at last. It will
consist of one for each two shares held
on February 9, 1955, and will call for
£3,091,329. A reserve of like amount has
been created by writing-up the book-
value of “certain of the co’s. assets.” At
the same time £3,987,390 of accumulated
savings has been taken from hiding and
put in the window, being “certain provi-
sions made in the past against properties
1.. .and no longer required.” Appear-
ances are that the revaluation was wholly
or substantially in respect of fixed assets
(up £7,807,104), which include breweries,
freehold and leasehold (at or under cost)
and machinery, rolling-stock and motor
vehicles (at cost less depreciation). The
suggestion is that the board has not capi-
talised unearned increment due to post-
war inflation, and that fixed assets are still
worth a lot more than their book-value.
The gift will raise paid capital to
£9,273,986, of which £5,241,422
£1,262,597 of it was scattered during the
three years to 1929 —will be bonus-scrip.
On the £9,273,986 the board expects to
pay 11 p.c. for the year to September
30, 1955. That would be equal to
p.c. on capital as it stood before the gift,
and would call for £54,938 less profit
than was claimed last term, when the
div. was lifted from p.c. to 16 p.c.
Prepared to wait for further benefits,
the market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
85s. 3d. After exercising the rights and
allowing for brokerage, the net price
would be 575. 4d., and the return 3.8
p.c. on an 11 p.c. div, basis. The inves-
tor who looks for 4.9 p.c. on his money
counts on the div. climbing to 14 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 375. Bd.
One of the most solidly-entrenched
brewery organisations in the Common-
wealth, Tooth’s now owns about one-third
of the licensed houses in N. S. Wales.
It began buying up large and thirsty
areas of the trade after World War I.
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
was taken over in 1920, Mahan (Wagga)
and Lincoln (Narrandera) in 1924, and
Resch’s (then one of Sydney’s other two
big breweries) in 1929. Since then the
co. has kept on buying up hotel properties
(which is the form competition takes,
there being no price-cutting in the trade)
and expanding its output and earnings.
Moreover, shareholders have never
failed to receive a div. since the co. bought
the business from the Tooths in 1888 for
£900,000. Average rates for the first five
decades of this century were 8.5, 9.6, 10.5,
10.4 and 13 p.c., and for the five years
to the close of last accounts 15.3 p.c.
Last term the output of beer continued
to expand, brewing costs were compara-
tively stable, and hotel earnings improved.
After allowing £462,544 (up £100,252) for
depreciation and unstated amounts for
taxation and sundry contingencies, the
gain in declared net earnings was £61,337;
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£f £ & £
1950.. 958,808 15 p.c. = 927,399 | n-i inn * 000
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. . ]
1951 949,246 15 p c. = « L
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. )
1952.. 952,775 15 p.c. = 927,399 I , nO9 , nsi
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. J lj,d ' B 4.09-,508
1953.. 958,312 I , r no:
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. f io,iz ‘ 4 ’ id '’ Jdo
Assets revaluation res,, £3,091,329 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216,654
1954^1,075,076 16$kc. = 989,225 | 75 g 5l 11,292,505
Employees’ fund, £10,000..)
The record £1,075,076 of profit was 17.3
p.c. on capital as it stood when the books
were ruled off. The comparatively narrow
margin between declared net earnings and
the distribution, which was lifted half a
point, suggests that the cautious board
may not have put every pound of profit
on the table.
The co. is well-shod financially, as the
large holding of cash and Government
securities, etc., shows:
1952. 1953 1954.
Paid capital ~£6.182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182.657
Reserves . . 4,092,508 4,137,935 11,292,505
Creditors . . 4.491,057 4,397,588 4,703,820
Employees’ fund 102,518 113,851 123,568
Pinal div. .. 468,699 494,613 494,613
£15,332,439 £15,326,644 £22,797,163
Freeholds and
plant .. 7,666,652 7,985,644 15,792,748
Stocks . . 1,246,720 1,272,279 1,224,951
Debtors .. 1,678,550 1,732,618 1,892,090
Consols, cash, etc. 4,740,517 4,336,103 3,887,374
£15,332,439 £15,326,644 £22,797,163
Of the year’s net growth of £7,807,104 in
freeholds and plant, £7,078,719 was in
respect of the revaluation and disclosure
of inner reserves already referred to. The
other £728,385 reflects additions and im-
provements to plant, etc., at the co.’s three
breweries, as well as the erection of new
hotel buildings, remodelling and exten-
sion of existing properties and provision
of increased guest-facilities. Three new
boilers at the Kent- and Irving-street
breweries are now in full operation, and
work has commenced on a similar in-
stallation at the Waverley brewery. This
and other additions to plant mean in-
creased output of both draught and
bottled beer—distribution of the latter
was one of the features of evidence before
the recent royal commission on the
liquor trade.
Some benefit to net earnings can be
expected to follow the extension of hotel
trading hours from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.
and the granting of additional club
licences, etc., though increased costs are
likely to gobble much of the gain from
the anticipated growth in turnover, especi-
ally on the hotel side of the undertaking.
In the case of leased houses much will
depend upon the efforts of the tenant
and the location and attractiveness of
the premises. Where the co. oper-
ates its own pubs on a manager basis, it
will have more direct control over a pos-
sible twofold gain.
Australian Provincial Assurance
pROM both policyholders’ and share-
■ holders’ points of view the latest
accounts of the now-firmly-established
A.P.A., which writes ordinary and
accident business throughout Australia
and New Zealand, are the most pleasing
the management has yet presented. They
disclose continued though moderate
growth of the business, on which the
emphasis appears to be on quality rather
than quantity, a very favorable mortality-
experience, marked improvement in the
net return from investments, a firm hold
upon controllable outgoings, with a con-
sequent increase in the surpluses available
for distribution, which has enabled
bonuses to policyholders to be increased
by 25 p.c. and the dividend to share-
holders to be lifted from 1\ p.c. to 10 p.c.
The following table, which combined
the figures of both departments of the
business, gives an overall picture of the
co.’s progress:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. '678,937 209,273 167,885 301,779 4,044,924
Less taxation reserve, £10,250 .. 4,034,674
Add exchange fluctuations, £8954 .. 4,043,628
To staff fund, £539 .. .. .. 4,043,089
1952.. 727,093 226,370 191,213 309,510 4,352,599
Less taxation reserve, £4OOO .. 4,348,599
Add exchange fluctuations, £7020 .. 4,355,619
To staff fund, £BO7 4,354,812
1953.. 837,004 250,704 207,396 378,904 4,733,716
Add tax reserve, £27,000 .. .. 4,760,716
Less exchange fluctuation, £45,754 .. 4,714,962
Unexplained reduction, £23,398 .. 4,691,564
1954.. 990,132 261,756 228,790 499,586 5,191,150
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1948-
50, £18,000; 1950-52, £21,600; 1953, £27,000;
1954, £36,000. f Includes special tax reserve, now
£67,000.
Growth in income oyer the last five years
was £437,153 compared with £146,911
for the preceding quinquennium. During
the decade policyholders, whose interests
have been kept in the foreground, have
received regular reversionary bonuses,
which are now at the satisfactory rate of
30s. p.c. on the sum assured for whole-
life policies. Dividends to shareholders
climbed from a modest 2i p.c. to a
moderate 6 p.c. in 1952, to 1\ p.c. in the
following year and to 10 p.c. last term.
In the life department about three-
quarters of the business —it does not
include group or industrial contracts
is written in Australia. Total amount of
new business put on the books last term
was £1,719,592 (up £74,817), and the
average amount per policy was £940 (up
£9O) compared with £561 three years
ago. Net premiums (£583,867, up
£59,370) and interest, rents, etc. (£234,760,
up £61,842) together turned in £818,627
(up £121,212). Claims and exes, totalled
£358,771, thus leaving an excess of
income over outgo of £459,856 (up
£107,403), of which £12,273 was sent to
the staff superannuation fund and £6467
to shareholders’ account. The remaining
£441,116 was added to the life assurance
fund, raising it to £4,745,937, which
exceeded liabilities under policies by
£165,596. Of the £165,596, £107,778 was
distributed among policyholders at the
increased rates of bonus already referred
to, £50,000 was earmarked as a reserve
for new business exes, and £7BlB was
carried forward.
Mortality-experience was only 44 p.c.
of expectation. Commissions and
management costs together took 22.8 p.c.
of net premium income as against 24 p.c.
for the previous year. Excluding miscel-
laneous receipts totalling £43,900, the'net
effective rate of interest earned on funds
in the life department was 10s. 6d. p.c.
stronger at £4 4s. lOd. p.c. The margin
of nearly 2 p.c. over the rate assumed
( 2i p.c.) in valuing liabilities under
policies, and changes in the investment
portfolio, augur well for the future of
bonus-rates to policyholders.
In the accident and general depart-
ment, in which shareholders are mainly
interested, the available surplus (after
allowing for unexpired risks and contri-
butions to the staff fund) was £52,090
(up £8324), to which was added £6467
from the life department, making a total
of £58,476, equal to 16.2 p.c. on share
capital, thus providing a comfortable
margin over the increased rate of divi-
dend. Buyers recently offered 345.
(245. 6d. a year ago) for the f.-p. £1
shares, at which figure the return is 5.9
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with satis-
factory long-term prospects.
Among other things, balance-sheet
figures reflect a change in investment
policy, whereby funds have been moving
(over the last five years) away from
properties, where rent-control and heavy
cost of repairs, etc., left little or no profit,
into Government paper, which offers a
much better return and more stability:
1951. 1952. 1953. 1954.
Public, see. 1,847,003 2,026,828 2,524,120 3.336,474
Mortgages. . 439,306 474,057 477,128 390,961
Loans on
policies, etc. 78,390 87,547 100,013 109,006
Book debts,
cash. etc. 178,022 174,422 174,938 198,621
Equipment . 16,525 17,481 10,387 22,153
Properties.. 665,477 647,504 526,006 387,028
Shares, etc. 1,366,556 1,476,227 1,545,333 1,538,703
Total .. 4,591,279 4,904,066 5,357,875 5,982,946
Creditors .. 186,355 191,467 264,159 431,796
Net tangibles 4,404,924 4,712,599 5,093,716 5,551,150
Assur. fund* 3,698,741 3,986,368 4,345,699 4,797,330
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1951,
£29,526 ; 1952, £34,000; 1953, £40,878 ; 1954,
£51,393.
Last term reductions of £138,978 in
properties and £86,167 in mortgages was
accompanied by a growth of £812,354
in Government securities, which
accounted for 55.7 p.c. of total assets
when the books were ruled off.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
THE trustee cos. continue to render a
wide range of essential and complex
services, which call for highly specialised
knowledge and experience, at moderate
charges, which are yielding relatively
little in the way of profit.
Still, the outlook for share-
holders has brightened, thanks to belated
amendments (in April, 1952) to the
N. S. Wales Trustee Companies Act pro-
viding for small increases in the scale of
statutory charges. The new scale, like the
old one, is static and applies only to new
business. A more equitable solution of
the problem would have been a formula
providing for a sliding scale of charges
based upon officially ascertained costs.
Apart from returns on the co.’s own
funds, net earnings depend mainly upon
the relative levels of charges, costs and
the volume of business. Pre-war ex-
panding business more than took care of
the growth in costs. After the war costs
began to win the race, due mainly to the
effects of inflationary pressures on wage-
rates. The Permanent’s profits fell from
an average of £12,123 for the five years
to 1940, to £11,849 and £11,178 for the
two succeeding quinquenniums, and to
£6Bll for the three years to September
30, 1953. For most of the lastm?ntioned
period the trustee section of the business
was being handled at a loss.
For the year to September 30 last there
was welcome improvement of £4966 in
net earnings:
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1960.. 12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 80,662
To renovations, etc., £lOOO .. 79,662
1951.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6,600 79,596
From inner reserves, £3159 .. 82,765
1952.. 5,240 5 p.c. = 5,600 82,495
To inner reserves, £9OOO .. 73,495
1953.. 8,659 7 p.c. = 7.700 959 74,454
Cost renovations, £2402 .. .. 72,052
1954.. 13,625 9 p.c. = 9,900 3,725 75,777
The £13,625 of profit claimed was 12.4 p.c.
on the £llO,OOO of paid capital as against
7.8, 4.7, 5.6, 10.9 and 10.7 p.c. back to
1949. The div. was lifted from 7 p.c. to
8 p.c., and a 1 p.c. bonus was added, mak-
ing 9 p.c. for the year. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was 7.3 p.c.
The lift in the profit was due partly to
the record volume of estate distributions
and commissions received thereon;
hence the bonus element in the distri-
bution. Although there was a very sub-
stantial increase in the amount of new
business entrusted to the co.’s expert care,
it was £490,709 less than the value of
estates wound up:
Exes p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1950.. £28,587,330 £119,225 £107,190 89.9 p.c.
1951.. 29,696,952 129,348 122,814 94.9 „
1952.. 30,835,358 146,945 141,705 96.4 „
1953.. 31,408,643 151,656 142,997 94.2 „
1954.. 30,917,934 152,278 138,653 91.1 „
The most pleasing feature was the actual
saving of £4344 in exes.; it accounted
for the bulk of the improvement in net
earnings and was brought about by re-
ductions in controllable outgoings, which
means careful management.
Since the altered conditions of today
are likely to call for a revision of all but
recently-made wills, testators should con-
sult their trustee on this question, especi-
ally in its relation to investment. Each
trust portfolio is kept under constant
review by a staff of experts, who are at
all times ready with advice and sympathy
on the many new problems that are now,
constantly cropping up.
When the books closed the co.’s own
funds, together with £40,116 coming to
sundry creditors, etc., were represented by
freeholds, etc., £55,178, investments
£129,679 . and cash and book-debts
£41,035.
It is too early yet to say exactly what
effect pending increases in wage-margins
will have upon the co.’s net earnings. The
market takes a cautious view and prices
the £5 shares paid to 11s. each—7ss. of
the remaining 89s. is callable only if
needed in the event of liquidation—at


THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/1954
Total Assets £149,693,385
Australian Currency
Australian
CURRENT ASSETS— . Currency
Cash, Bank Balances, etc £20,982,042
Treasury Bills 6,253,750
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 26,496,999
Bills Receivable 8,741,387
Investments 8,796,409
£71,270,587
Advances, net Hire Purchase Contracts,
etc 76,319,851
£147,590,438
Dedyct: ,
CURRENT LIABILITIES—
Deposits, etc. including
Contingencies Reserves .. £138,166,202
Balances due to Other Banks 2,331,463
Provisions for Tax .. .. 644,518
Dividend Payable .. .. 172,391
141,314,574
£6,275,864
Add:
Premises, etc 2,102,947
Shareholders’ Funds —Australian Currency £8,378,811
PROFITS
Each £1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1954 was
used in this way—
All Expenses of management, including £ s. d.
Salaries and Wages of Staff .... 154
Income and Other Taxes 2 11
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund .. v 8
Dividends 10
Reserves 1
£lO 0
H. G. ENSTEN,
Acting General Manager in Australia.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duet bury. Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. Q. Parker,
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
Australian Provincial Assurance
ASSOCIATION LTD.
(Incorporated in N.8.W. )
Address by Chairman of Directors, Mr. Leslie J. Thompson, to Share-
holders at the 43rd Annual General Meeting held on Monday, 39th
November, 1954.
In moving the adoption of the Balance Sheet and Directors’ Report for the year,
I have much pleasure in reviewing the results of the year’s operation as follows;: —
NEW BUSINESS.—The volume of new business written during the year (less
reassurances) amounted to £1,719,592 and compares with £1,644,775 for 1953,
and £1,764,722 for 1952—»an average over the last three years of £1,706,363.
The average sum assured continues to increase, being this year £940 compared
with £B5O and £BOO respectively] for the preceding two years. The upward
movement has been progressive now over a number of years, viz., £562 in 1950
to £940 in 1954.
MORTALITY EXPERIENCE. —Death Claims represented 44% of the amount
expected according to the Valuation tables, and such percentage compares with
43% in 1953, and 49% in 1952.
ACTUARIAL VALUATION. —In arriving at the year’s surplus in the Life Fund,
the assurances in force have been valued on the same basis as has been used by the
Association for many years past, which is the net premium method using Om
mortality tables with 2|% interest.
INTEREST RATE.—The net effective rate of interest (i.e., after deducting
income tax) earned on the Statutory Life Fund (including Reserve Funds) was
£4/4/10 per cent, compared with £3/14/4 per cent, for the previous year—an
improvement of 10/6 per cent. This improvement in the net interest yield has
been progressive for some years past and coincides with the Board’s policy' over
the last five years or more to realise on many freehold investments where the yield,
after depreciation, was almost nil, and transfer the proceeds into Government Loans.
LIFE DEPARTMENT SURPLUS. —The surplus shown by the accounts, after
including £11,293 brought forward, was £184,336, an increase over the previous
year of £92/770. It should be pointed out, however, that of this increase, the
sum of £24,659 represents excess miscellaneous receipts compared with 1953.
Furthermore, as these miscellaneous receipts mostly comprise adventitious profits
from realisation of freehold properties, which the Board decided to s?ll because of
the inadequate returns from rents, they should be disregarded as an indication
of normal income. Nevertheless, I should emphasise that the proceeds of these
sales will in future be interest earning at increased rates, and will therefore be a
source of increased annual income. With full allowance, however, for this non-
recurring income, the Board is pleased to point out to Shareholders the marked
improvement in the surplus from normal sources of income, and particularly draws
their attention to the large increase in earnings from “interest, dividends and rents”
which, less direct charges and expenses, including income tax, netted £190,860
compared with £153,577.
This improvement is the outcome largely of the Board’s planning over the
past five years to move investments away from properties where rent control on the
one hand,* and excessive costs of repairs and management on the other, have resulted
in little or no profit whatever, to investments earning Government security rates
or better.
With regard to the surplus of £184,836, I now wish to deal with the Board's
recommendations as referred to in the Directors’ Report.
Firstly, supported by the Actuary’s advice, the Board decided to increase the
rates of bonus to Policyholders by 25%, and accordingly, have allocated the sum
of £107,778 for bonus to Policyholders. Secondly, the Board considered that a
sum roundly approximating the amount of the adventitious profits of £43,900
should be appropriated to a “New Business Reserve,” and therefore they have set
aside the sum of £50,000 for this object. Thirdly, the Board would like to improve
the Staff Superannuation benefits, and have taken the opportunity afforded by the
increased surplus to set aside £12,273 (being the appropriate contribution from the
Life Funds towards a total capital sum of £15,000) to be invested as a special
superannuation fund for the staff. Lastly, the Board is of the opinion that some
portion of the improved surplus in the Life Fund should be transferred to the
Profit and Loss Account for the benefit of shareholders, and the sum so apportioned,
viz., £6,467, represents 6% of the amount which has been set aside for bonus
to Policyholders.
The result of all these allocations from the surplus will be to leave a sum
of £7,818 to be carried forward next year.
I might add, in concluding this subject, that all the Board’s recommendations
have the full support of the Company’s Actuary.
GENERAL FUND.—This Account, which comprises the earnings from invest-
ment of Shareholders’ funds, and the operations of the Accident Department of the
Company, yielded record results—the net surplus being £56,817 which represents
15.78% on shareholders’ capital. Compared with the previous year, it is an
increase of £11,051.
The Accident Department showed record premiums of £128,482, which is 25%
over 1953, while the claim ratio to premiums dropped from 45% to 43%. The
profit before deducting management expenses was £34,710, which is an increase of
£8,422 over the previous year.
The yield from investment of Shareholders’ funds, after deducting direct charges,
including income tax, was £43,023, compared with £37,393 —an increase of £5,630.
Expenses of management, etc., totalled £20,916, compared with £17,917, an
increase of £2,999 over 1953.
The total expenses of management are apportioned between the Life Fund and
the General Fund proportionate to premium income, and in view of the steep
increase in accident premiums this year, a higher percentage of the total expenses
was borne by the General Fund.
Dealing with the surplus of the General Fund, the Board has appropriated
£2,000 to Special Accident Reserve, thus raising that Reserve to £22,000, and has
transferred £2,727 to Profit and Loss Account to meet the proportionate share of
the £15,000 to be set aside out of the combined profits for special staff superannua-
tion. Thus is left a balance in the General Fund of £52,090, which has been trans-
ferred to Profit and Loss Account.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.—The profits transferred from the Life and
General Funds, viz., £6,467 and £52,090 respectively, total £58,557, and represent
the net earnings for shareholders for the year, being equal to approximately 16%
on Shareholders’ capital. The Board proposes that this profit be dealt with by
firstly paying a final dividend of 64%, making 10% for the year, and with the
interim dividend paid on the 2nd July, 1954, requiring a total allocation of
£36,000, by secondly transferring the sum of £15,000 to General Reserve, and by
thirdly allowing the balance of £7,557 to be added to the carry forward of
£16,645, increasing it to £24,202.
A recapitulation of the profits, dividends and transfers to Reserves over the
past six years may be seen from the following figures taken from the Shareholders’
Profit and Loss Accounts during that period.
The General Reserve now stands at £160,000, and the Investment Reserve
at £120,618, a total of £280,618, which is good cover for any unforeseen con-
tingencies.
The Board’s policy over the difficult years of rising costs has been to restrict
dividends, and build up reserves. Whilst conditions have been steadier during the
last year or so, many Australian industries are still finding it hard to compete with
foreign markets because of higher local costs, the smallness of the home market
and the high capital costs of plant installations over recent years towards which the
Government has been most unhelpful in not liberalising the allowable deductions
for depreciation for income tax purposes.
The increased dividends recommended by the Board during recent years have
coincided with the stability of the Association’s profit-earning capacity, and
the reserves which have been built up to present levels.
ASSETS. —The assets which now total £5,982,946, are conservatively valued,
and Shareholders will note from the percentage table given below, the favourable
movements which have taken place during the year, the most important being
a reduction in freehold property by sales and depreciation written off totalling
£127,162, and an increase in Government Securities of £788,590.
Of the total assets, approximately 56% is now. represented by Government and
semi-Government securities, and 24.3% in Shares in Companies, while only 6.5%
is now represented by freeholds.
During the year, the Board transferred some of its funds into New Zealand
Government securities, hence the increase of £286,976 shown in this item in the
Balance Sheet. This also accounts for the disappearance of the Exchange Fluctua-
tion Account which was used in the transfer of part of the funds.
CONCLUSION.—Again, I should like, as in past years, to record appreciation
of the loyal and efficient service of the General Manager, Chief Medical Officer,
Actuary, Branch Managers, Agency Manager, Secretary, Accountant, and indeed all
the staff without exception who have given of their best to the growing demands of
the Association’s business.
15s. as against 13s. a year ago,
The return at 15s. is a satisfactory
5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
or 6.6 p.c. should the 9 p.c.
distribution be continued. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
18s. 7d. per share.
Weslem Mining Corp.
5 f nn
T 0 finance its 00
by Go P ld Mfnes of
Kalgoorhe, and to help further
/fowlmmwanf
°f, 0tl >“ .B°W
interests, as well as participa-
nTosnLhn aniU W M d r?°h ible
offered C its Agister
m C U 8 f
nrimiL rff W 7 5 L Sha T a
premium of 7s. 6d. each.
The money was payable Is.
(including 6d. premium) on
November 22, a further ss.
(including 3s. premium) is due
m February, 1955, and the
remaining 6s. 6d. (including 4s.
premium) is to be called as and
when required. The issue was
underwritten.
Paid capital will thus be lifted
to £815,019 in 3,725,800 ss.
shares, of which 2,794,350 will
be fully paid and the balance
paid to 2s. 6d, each. On that
lot Is. a share (div. paid for the
last two years) would call for
£186,290, or £61,686 less profit
than was claimed for the year
to March 31, 1954. Last week
the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares sold at
d - . .
W.M.C. is interested in five
gold - producing and four
mineral-prospecting, etc., cos.
The producing cos.’ paid capitals
and profits, etc., for the year to
March 31 last are as follows: —
Western mining coep. Group.
oSm Profit t Div
£ £ &'
c “^ man 650>000 . 614>794
(—99,951)
G Kaigo°o f riie 768,438 t 184,265 ( ii6%6
• (+19,939)
N cooigardie 6ii,200f 1.807 Nil
(-139,773)
«. w*- IMI6 „„
‘SSS? sscooot Mas «
.. , (-39,717)
K Proportion of paid capital owned by
W.M.C is Cmtpl Norseman 60 p.c'
G.M of Kalgoorhe 30 p.c.. New Cool-
*** ’’ C “I Victor™
+ * ln 5s - shares - % ios. shares.
tßiee ( . +) or fall (-) in profits over
ct Prm T year kete -
Star performer is Central Norse-
man. The drop in last term’s
profit was due to rise in operat-
ing costs and shrinkage in gold-
premium receipts. Since close
of accounts a further div. of
Is. 6d. per f.-p. ss. share has
been paid. The market prices
the scrip at 28s. 9d.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorhe,
which took over the adjoining
Paringa leases in 1952, is on ,
the way to becoming one of the
biggest producers on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile. At
31 last its own ore reserve were
put at 585,000 tons, averaging
6.4dwt. Since the close of
accounts it has bought the issued
capital of two other neighbors,
Boulder Perseverance and South
Consolidated.
The offer to Perseverance
(paid capital £8224,820 in f.-p.
4s. shares) was 1 Is. KHd. (Aust.)
cash per share, or an exchange
of f.-p. scrip on the basis of 65
G.M.K. for 100 Perseverance.
For South Kalgurli Consoli-
dated (paid capital £862,502 in
f.-p. ss. shares) the offer was
16s, 3d. (Aust.) a share cash, or
a one-for-one exchange of scrip.
Perseverance, which holds a
65 p.c. share-interest in Kal-
goorlie Enterprise, netted
£841,689 (before tax) for the
year to March 31 last, and paid
a 12j p.c. div. Ore reserves at
balancing-date were 373,000
tons, averaging s.odwt. In 1953
the co.’s scrip had sold as low
as 2s. Bd. in Perth.
South Kalgurli Consoli-
dated, whose scrip had dropped
to Bs. 4d. (Perth) during 1953,
put its ore reserves at March 31,
1953, at 205,400 tons proved,
averaging 5.06dwt., and 131,400
tons probable, averaging
s.o4dwt. The co. is to be wound
up and its leases amalgamated
with those of G.M.K. Ore
from South Kalgurli Consoli-
dated and North Kalgurli is
now treated at a jointly owned
plant.
Current output from all leases
concerned is approximately
38,000 tons ore per four-weekly
period, or 475,000 tons for a
50-week year. Substantial sav-
ings in operating and manage-
ment costs are expected to
follow the two deals.
The respective amounts pay-
able by G.M.K, in cash and
shares has not yet been broad-
cast, but the co. will presently
offer a rights issue of new shares
to those on its register. Its own
f.-p. 10s. shares now fetch
around 18s. in the market.
The collapse of New Cool-
gardic’s profit resulted from a
steep rise in operating costs,
drop in grade of ore treated,
and shrinkage in gold-premium
receipts. The co., which paid a
maiden div. of 6d. a share in
July, 1953, hasn’t yet got fully
into its stride. Last term’s mill-
feed (9.36dwt.) was below run-
of-mine ore (about 12.3dwt.),
and recent developments have
exposed stuff up to 18.7dwt. A
better showing at next balance
can be expected. The co.’s f.-p.
10s. shares fetch 6s, 3d.
Great Western Consolidated,
whose mill only started up in
November, 1953, is still in the
development stage. Exactly
what the future holds for the
co. in the way of net earnings
is difficult to say at the moment.
Last term’s profit was won
from treatment of 420,219 tons
of 2.43dwt. ore. The grade is
expected to gradually improve
as ore from new shoots becomes
available. At March 31 lasi
ore reserves at the Copperhead
lease were put at 431,000 tons,
averaging 2.3dwt., in the quarry,
and 292,000 tons, averaging
4dwt, underground, where the
drill has recently disclosed some
richer stuff below No. 8 level.
The market prices the f.-p, 10s.
shares at 6s. each.
Central Victoria Dredging is
a big low-grade proposition
from which results have been
disappointing, due mainly to
the effects of inflation upon
operating costs. Having treated
available pay-dirt, the co.’s Jim
Crow dredge has been docked.
The Amphitheatre machine has
now turned into higher-grade
ground, from which three years’
or more profitable work is
anticipated. What will happen
after that will depend upon
whether economic conditions
will then permit a lot of now-
marginal ground to be handled
at a profit. The co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares have dropped to 3s. 6d.
in the market.
W.M.C. and Gold Mines of
Australia are jointly interested
in two uranium prospects, now
being tested, near Cloncurry
(Q.). And, in case anything
fresh turns up in the way of an
oil-prospect in Westralia, or
elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, W.M.C. has linked-up
with the Shell Co. (Aust.),
North Broken Hill and Broken
Hill South for the purpose of
preliminary investigation of it.


Women's Letters
STDNET
Toast of the week was Sir Winston
Churchill on his 80th birthday. Pictures
of the occasion have called up the com-
ment: “He must be a good man. Look
how happy and handsome Lady Churchill
looks after forty-six years of married life! ”
Lady Churchill, who was the fashionable
and beautiful .Miss Clementine Hozier
when she married in 1908, is reported to
have said that if you want to look after
your husband “you must feed him well.”
In the light of this one wonders how
much of the 1121 b. birthday-cake (it had
80 Sin. candles) the P.M. ate at the
party.
The birthday was celebrated at a
reception given by the Royal Empire
Society in Sydney. The Governor, Sir
John Northcott, spoke of the times he had
met Sir Winston personally, and of how
amazing a grasp of detail he showed on
all matters which he discussed. The
reception was attended by representatives
of thp Diplomatic and Consular Corps,
the Churches, Trade Commissions, State
and Federal Parliamentarians.
☆ ☆ ☆
1
Many a toast was drunk to Prime
Minister Menzies for having passed the
record set by the late W. M. Hughes for
the longest period as P.M. It was a pity
the event was a little overshadowed by
the British P.M.’s birthday, but Mr.
Menzies probably would be only too
delighted to say “After you, Sir Winston.”
* ☆ *
Probably because only the young can
really enjoy a dance on a hot night, and
because schools break up at this time of
the year, all the dances at present are
dominated by the really youthful. Leav-
ing Certificate students seem to have
taken possession of the social activity.
It’s a sad school indeed that can’t manage
at least one dance for the end of the year.
Scot’s College boys were hosts at two
parties, seven of them staging a Night
in the Tropics party at Woollahra Golf-
house, and Tim Hector, Paul Moulton,
Bill Ditford, John Draper, Kerry Duncan
being hosts to a large party at Sher-
brooke, and Shore boys chose Rushcutter
Bay lawn-tennis clubroom for two dances.
One of the few dances for which
parents were credited with “giving” the
party was Mr. and Mrs. James Ashton’s
coming-out party for their daughter
Rosemary, at their beautiful harborside
house, Tueila, Double Bay, where a
marquee lined with yellow silk and decor-
ated with gardenias and trails of ivy was
set up on the lawn. Rosemary wore a
simple and elegant dress of rich delustred
cream satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Younger Set of the Food for
Babies’ fund held their dance, the Christ-
mas Belle Balle, in the new ballroom on
the top-floor of the Astra Hotel, Bondi,
where the windows look out over the
wide sweep of the beach and the glitter-
ing lights of the waterfront. Ann Mar-
riott, the president, who wore a coronet
of Cecil Brunner roses with her pink
satin and tulle dress, was escorted by
Lieutenant Gary Baker. Partnered by
Winston Pickering, Winsome Blair was
chosen as Belle, and looked most attrac-
tive in a dress of flame silk-net sashed
with cream and green. Margaret
Mahoney, who was with Trevor Ward,
wore a ballerina of rose chiffon. Mary
Joyce-Brandon came with “Mick” Daly,
and Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Gates (he just
back from Korea) were among the
dancers. The fund was represented by
Mr. Frank McEachern, with Mrs.
McEachern. Mrs. Ken Pointing’s party
included her niece Dawn Noud, James
Neill and Don Paine.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cricket and tennis have crept into
conversation in most unsportish circles.
Most women seem to feel a bit sorry
that the English, having won the toss,
made the wrong decision. “Nobody
wants a walkover,” “was the most popular
opinion, though it’s rather nicer to be
able to say this when one is the walker
rather than the walkcd-upon. In tennis
Lewis Hoad’s tantrums confirmed the
suspicion that tennis champions are more
temperamental than other “sportsmen.”
One never hears of cricketers, for
instance, throwing down their bats, or
sulking, or hitting the ball over the
grandstand through sheer temper, though,
when you come to think of it, perhaps
these things do happen, the onlookers
having been lulled into too great a
somnolence to ndtice.
☆ ☆ ☆
In fashion the top news from abroad
is of Princess Anne’s mink-trimmed coat
and muff. It’s safe to assume that many
little Sydney girls will have a muff next
winter, though they mightn’t all insist
on mink.
In Sydney streets the influence of
Italian fashions is showing in intense
colors, emerald, burnt-orange, “hot”-
pink, fringed-straw handbags decorated
with strawberries, or flowers, 05 even
bells, cone-shaped hats (straw again) and
swinging skirts. The young girls are
wearing sleeveless dresses with tiny
waists and short skirts (sometimes up to
the knees) springing out over frilly
petticoats and even crinolines. With
their short Italian haircuts, their sun-
tanned skins and their flamboyant ear-
rings they look very dashing and quite
inimitable.
* ☆ *
Who’s interested in winter skirts in
this humidity? The fashion trade! A
parade of the'new Princeton skirts was
given for the press, so they can treasure
the thought of winter clothes all through
the summer months, emulating in this
way the ant rather than the grasshopper.
A few advance-points are that orlon and
wool are being combined to make per-
manently-pleated washable skirts, that
tartan skirts will be sold with little match-
ing collars, that skirts will be a half-inch
shorter, that sheath-skirts will have deep-
pleated hems or an all-round series of
kick-pleats, and that pinafore-frocks will
be more to the fore.
Tania Castaing has chosen New Year’s
Eve for her marriage to Lieut.-Com-
mander John Roberts, R.N., so that
many of her fiance’s naval colleagues, in
Sydney at that time, may attend the
wedding in the Naval Dockyard Chapel
on Garden Island. Tania, who is 18,
will be attended by her two sisters,
Ariane and Jacqueline, and the reception
will be at the home of her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. H. T. Castaing, of Warinilla,
Kirribilli. Lieut.-Commander Roberts is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. R. W.
Roberts, of Begilly. Pembrokeshire,
South Wales. In February the newly
married couple will leave for England
to make their home. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
What a lot of talk there is about
alcohol! To read the daily papers one
would think that it was the most important
subject in the world (except one perhaps).
Leading articles and special articles and
letters-to-the-editol* go on and on about
it, and no one ever seems to think that
there are vast numbers of Australians
who would never give it a thought were it
not for all this talk. To them “drink”
means a bottle of sauterne at Christmas
or maybe a glass of sherry to toast a
special occasion. They are not teetotallers ;
they are just not interested in alcohol.
They must be very bored with all the
pro- and anti-drink talk, and they must
be surprised at the type of article which
praised, as one did recently, a town in
Queensland as “a paradise on earth,”
simply because the pubs are open 24
hours a day! As if that were the acme
of gracious living!
MELBOURNE 1
In the lovely U.S. Consulate at South
Yarra Consul Givon Parsons and Mrs.
Parsons gave the first of a series of late-
afternoon parties to introduce to their
friends new U.S. Consul Joseph E.
Wiedenmayer and his wife. For this
party Mrs. Parsons chose a slim black
linen frock featuring a yoke of black
guipure lace, the black velvet shoulder-
straps matching a tiny matador-jacket,
Mrs. Wiedenmayer, a petite and sparkling
brunette, chose a full-skirted frock of
white pique, the bodice strapless and
cuffed with a band embroidered with
gold thread, pearls and sequins; her very
short white nylon gloves were pearl-
embroidered.
Among the guests were the Chinese
Consul, Mr. T. W. Liu, and his wife, she
in a national gown of sage-green satin
brocade; the French Consul, M. Le Bas,
and Madame le Bas; the Consul for
Switzerland, M. Paul-Emile Cattin, and
Madame Cattin ; the Italian Consul, Dr.
Lucca Dainelli; and the Consul for
Austria, Mr. F. L. Berger, and Mrs
Berger. Mrs. F. H. Wright, whose hus-
band is Consul-General for the Nether-
lands, wore a white frock etched in a
black design and a black straw picture-
hat.
Since 1939, when she joined the
Y.W.C.A. Board of Directors, Mrs.
Hector Greig has served in many ways.
During the war she was president of the
Blue Triangle Club for servicemen and
-women, president of the Garden Army,
chairman of Y.W.C.A. publicity commit-
tee and on the board of the Women’s
Hospital. For three years before going to
England in 1951 she was chairman of
the physical-education committee and
while overseas studied that form of
Y.W.C.A. work. At present she is a mem-
ber of the Commission Shop for the Carry
On Club, a member of the Lyceum Club,
of Commonwealth and Kew Golf Clubs
and once more running Y.W.C.A.
publicity.
Mrs. Athol Townley, wife of the Minis-
ter for Air, was cool and attractive in a
blue printed-silk frock and currant-red
straw cloche when she was introduced
to the annual meeting of the R.A.A.F.
Women’s Association in the Lower Town
Hall by Mrs. E. C. Wackett, the president.
After a year of magnificent work the
main objective, the Educational Patriotic
Fund, established in 1947 to help in
education of children of deceased and in-
capacitated R.A.A.F. personnel, now
stands at £14,624. To this sum country
and inter-State branches have consider-
ably contributed.
Mrs. V. E. Hancock, wife of Air-Vice-
Marshal Hancock, who has been vice-
president for seven years, is leaving for
England with her husband and family
shortly. She was given a small token
by Mrs. Wackett on behalf of members.
Mrs. Wackett also presented a silver
candelabra to the Cadet College mess at
Point Cook. The Radio Apprentices’
School and the Telecommunications unit
at Frogmore each received a large-
framed portrait of Queen Elizabeth. The
After-Care Hospital, Melbourne District
Nursing Society, Air Force Association
and Spastic Children’s Society received
cheques to help their work.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first Christmas luncheon-party by
the women’s group of the Royal Empire
Society at the new offices in Queen’s-road
was a very bright affair. Red candles,
silver gumnuts and green holly-leaves
decorated the tables. In the reception-
rooms red gladioli and Christmas-lilies
were arranged, and carols were played.
Guests, who were greeted by the presi-
dent, Mrs. F. M. Woodruff, and the vice-
presidents, Lady Hay and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, included the Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. F. Selleck), who wore a grey-and-
white-printed silk-shantung frock with a
black straw picture-hat swathed with
black chiffon, Lady Dixon, Lady Latham
and Mrs. F. Kingsley Norris.
☆ * *
A new headquarters for the Melbourne
District Nursing Society in St. Kilda-
road was officially opened by Minister
for Health W. Barry, who was accom-
panied by his wife, she wearing a suit of
pine-green silk and a small white straw
hat. The entrance hall was made lovely
by a huge bowl of Christmas-lilies mixed
with small yellow lilies, and guests were
welcomed by the president of the society,
Mrs. George Simpson, The chairman of
directors, Mrs. I. P. Major, and the
matron, Miss Dorothy Tupper, assisted
Mrs. Simpson. Lady Lowe, a former
president, was present, as were Mrs. F. E.
Shillabeer, Mrs. D. Hallenstein, Mrs. F.
Sampson, Mrs. Marchant Penfold (presi-
dent of the council of auxiliaries), Mr.
and Mrs. H. I. Fader, Sir John Newman
Morris, Dr. George Simpson and Mrs. A.
F. Cameron.
☆ ☆
Opening a display of Christmas-trees
at Buckley and Nunn’s, Dame Sybil
Thorndike said the beauty and care evi-
dent in the trees showed great imagina-
tion. The trees were mostly the work
of the Whernside auxiliary of Royal
Melbourne Hospital, which will get the
proceeds.
Centre of attraction was the “lollypop-
tree,” made by Mrs. Kenneth Cole. Of
white tulle, it was decorated with all-day
suckers, candy walking-sticks and bon-
bons, Mrs. Harold Holt made a tree
of candy-peppermint sticks, decorated
with festoons of colorful popcorn; tiny
birds-of-paradise decorated Mrs. E.
Alcock’s “singing tree,” Madame Reshid
Bey’s tree was a banksia branch silvered,
with gumnuts, gumleaves and grass, also
silvered.
Mrs. David Elder’s tree was trimmed
with large blown-glass stars. Her
children, Prue and Jane, made the cotton-
wool snowman at the entrance. White
cellophane was used to make Mrs. Nor-
man Spiers’s tree, Mrs. R. C, Normand
made hers of saltbush, seed-pods and
pine-cones painted red and silver. Mrs.
James Buchanan had one of gathered
white-net frills trimmed with silver stars
and bright red balls. Mrs. Ronald Mar-
riott’s was of red-and-silver trimmings
on “white angel-hair.”
☆ ☆ ☆
What a boon to the busy housewife
will be the new Singer 306 sewing-
machine. By just slipping in a disk, the
woman who makes her own clothes can
decorate them with zigzag- or satin-stitch,
open scallops, single- and twin-needle
decorative stitching and scalloped edges.
She can do arrowheads on tailored jackets
and skirts, and by using another attach-
ment she can sew on lace With a zigzag-
stitch, do shell-edge finishing and tucking.
And, most important of all, she can do
plain and corded buttonholes and sew
on buttons. These wonders were dis-
played at a luncheon at the Hotel Aus-
tralia, and four pretty mannequins showed
frocks featuring the various stitches.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 1955 autumn and winter collection
of fashions from manufacturer Harold
Grigg will appeal to the smart and young.
His designer, June Myers, has combined
simplicity with elegance and created styles
which may be dressed-up for occasions or
worn in their stark simplicity.
Novelty was given to a few by the use
of wool and brushed-angora threads
woven into the material in stripes and
threads. Guipure-lace or angora-wool
embroidery highlighted plain weaves. In
the collection, shown at Hotel Australia,
the vogue for separates was expressed
with plain skirts allied to tops of striped-
jersey or rayon.. There was no radical
change in the silhouette. Skirts were
either slim or with fullness achieved by
the use of gathers or pleats,
Jewel-toned taffetas were used to make
ballerina frocks, as were pinwhale velve-
teen, tulle, woven-striped organza and
filmy lace. Topper-coats were shown,
several cut on blazer lines. Others were
double-breasted or finished with long
revers. One of the most attractive day-
frocks was of tartan wool. It had a flared
skirt and the bodice featured a white
pique bib, which is clipped in for day and
can be removed to reveal a wide boat-
line for more formal occasions.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY CLAUDE BRIDGE (last
known address) Bodington Sanatorium
Wentworth Falls.—TAKE NOTICE that
EVELYN FANNY BRIDGE has filed a'
Petition for Divorce No. 3318 of 1954 on
the ground of desertion by reason of your
non-compliance with a Decree for Resti-
tution of Conjugal Rights made herein on
the second day of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-three If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Eleventh day of February One thousand
nine hundred and fifty-five and you may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from FRANCIS J. KEANE, Soli-
citor, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JAMES DUGGAN late of
Cessnock.—TAKE NOTICE that HELEN
THOMPSON McPHERSON DUGGAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2531 of
1953 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance by the 22nd day of
March 1955 at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge f om S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor,
of Hunter Street, Newcastle West, or his
Sydney Agent, MR. J. K. DIXON, Soli-
citor, of 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JAMES PEPPER late of
77 Sussex Street, Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that MABEL EDITH PEPPER has filed
Petition No. 4346 of 1954 praying for a
Divorce from you on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 24th day of March
1955 and obtain a copy* of the Petition
without charge from MR. JOHN SIDNEY
HEANEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
TUCKER&CO
PTY. LTD.
ESTB. 1838
CHATEAU
TAN UN DA
"The Brandy of Distinction”
CAPSTAN
Old
RUM
'J he Spirit of the Sugar Cane”
THE CHOICE / OF // ROYALTY
VB
BITTER ALE
“.4 Popular Ale”
□
Jl
WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS OF
WHISKY
' The Preferred Whisky'
BOLS
V.O. GEN EVER
and LIQUEURS
•WORLD FAMOUS SINCE 1575*
HIGHLAND CREAM
"Perfection of
Old Scotch Whisky”
EXPORT
LAGER BEER
*• Lager at its Best "
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Pommy”
She’s beaut, cobber. Takes
you back to the good old Bland
Holt days when plays were plays.
No sissy psychology in this one,
mate. Playwrights Lipscomb
and Watson know their outback.
Tough guys, these Aussies.
Hearts of gold, however.
Except the overseer. He’s that
low he could walk under a
snake’s belly without taking his
hat off. Undermining the welfare
of the station so that he can buy
it cheap from his boss, or rather
bossess. Sweet young maiden
with more knowledge of sheep
than human nature. Name of
Myra. Overseer pinches sheep
and hides them in a gully so that
he can restock station when he
gets it. Reports sheep have been
burned in bushfire. Frightful
drought, blowflies, dingoes, sheep
baa-ing pitifully offstage, every-
thing gone to pieces. So station-
hands offer to struggle on with-
out wages, for sake of brave little
woman.
Pommy also. Arrives in dress-
suit, Oxford accent and more
intelligence than all the Aussies
put together. Also better
manners. Has tripe knocked out
of him by burly stockman, but
bears no resentment. Myra?
Love at first sight. Pommy
grasps the situation, joins in
overseer’s racket in order to
expose him and save Myra from
his clutches. Sends 50 trucks to
move sheep to better pastures,
but overseer, not to be beaten,
turns trucks back. All is ended.
Sheep baa, dingoes howl, blow-
flies blow. Myra sadly sells
station and starts packing.
Highly emotional scene between
her and devoted henchmen.
But no, mate, all is not yet
ended. Pommy turns up, burst-
ing with self-importance, having
been to Sydney and won a packet
on the neddies. Transfer of
station torn up, overseer taken
backstage and flogged by burly
stockman, his screams of anguish
rising above the baa-ing of the
sheep and the buzzing of the
blowflies. Then, as we knew it
would all along, the rain comes.
Real rain. Love and kisses all
round, especially for Pommy.
She’s apples.
Played by a staunch company
of Aussies at the Comedy, Mel-
bourne. As a sentimental Irish-
man with a penchant for pinch-
ing other people’s clobber,
William Hodge is near enough
to perfect.
♦> ❖
A.B.C. Quartet & Hephzibah
Hephzibah Menuhin has some
of Yehudi’s resemblance to
Napoleon, and is even more the
Little Corporal when, in her long
cream concert-dress with the gold
pattern on the edge of the skirt,
she leads her black-suited squad
into the field ; or especially when,
after acknowledging applause,
she takes a step forward, turns
smartly right, moves off allegro
ben marcato, stiff-shouldered,
down the line of instrumentalists
in which she has been standing,
who, as she passes them, follow
with violins, viola and ’cello at
the trail.
The manoeuvres between these
marchings on and off were well-
diversified ; the season opened
with a piano - quartet by
Beethoven, a piano-quintet by
Dohnanyi; and a string-quartet
by the British composer
Benjamin Frankel of fine
harmonic effects and even pure
lyricism; on Wednesday last
there were the Brahms piano-
quartet, Op. 60, expressive of
his charred mortification about
Clara Schumann, and the
enchanting piano-quintet, Op. 81,
by Dvordk; and last Saturday
the Milhaud piano - quintet
arranged from his “La Creation
du Monde,” composed around
1923, before Gershwin’s
Rhapsody, in which the familiar
idiom gave the pleasure of recog-
nition without the feeling that
further acquaintance would add
to its interest, and Schubert’s
“Trout” quintet.
Miss Menuhin’s delicate
strength appeared most in the
lovely lament (Dumka) and
vivacious scherzo of the
Dvorak; and again in the
“Trout,” where her clear playing
brought out passages in the
scherzo that are lost in the Pan-
hoffer recording, and where she
rattled off the continuous juke-
box variation of the song maybe
a shade evener than the recorder
—though as a whole, beautifully
as Robert Pikler’s viola and John
Painter’s ’cello sang, and deftly
as Charles Gray managed the
leaping double-bass part (it is
worth seeing the “Trout” done
to realise what trouble Schubert
laid up there for the bull-fiddle),
the performance lacked co-
ordination ; one had the impres-
sion that in rehearsing they had
passed over it lightly because
everyone knew it.
When deprived of their key-
board-officer, the strings (with
Harold Taberner, second violin)
were by no means at a loose
end: in the Haydn Quartet,
Op. 3, No. 5, which is mainly an
accompaniment for the leader,
Ernest Llewellyn played the
muted slow movement (serenade)
with such verve as to pile up the
silences until there was only this
one small scraping wail of
melpdy in the universe, a per-
formance of the rarest inspira-
tion and perfection ; and in the
Debussy quartet they gave so
clear and vital a picture of the
rhythmical structure of the first
movement as to make the
reviewer feel that yet one more
mystery had been removed from
a world which is becoming, if
anything, a little too plain.
*Z* *
“Paint Your Wagon”
Besides being the most
sumptuous and liveliest musical-
comedy seen thereabouts for a
long time, “Paint Your Wagon,”
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
actually has an idea running
through it —or half-way through
it.
It is quite a sound idea —
Euripides used it 2500 years ago
in “The Bacchae.” Greek tragedy
was a wonderful form in which
to put it, and you couldn’t get
a worse form than musical-
comedy ; but when it comes to
portraying the Bacchic frenzy—
well, it couldn’t have been better
done than the diggers of the
great Californian gold-rush do it
when they dance around the only
girl in Rumson and implore her
to leave the township as her
presence diverts them from the
serious business of gold-
digging.
Nobody would accuse Allan
Werner, writer of the book and
lyrics, of any philosophical inten-
tion when he wrote “Paint Your
Wagon,” but there is the same
idea in “The Bacchae,” where
King Pentheus, possessed by the
god himself although he doesn’t
know it, goes off dressed as a
woman, with Dionysus disguised
as a guide, to spy upon the
Bacchic women at their secret
rites amongst the pine-trees,
which end sadistically in
violence.
There is plenty of sadistic
violence in “Paint Your Wagon,”
especially when the naughty
ladies of the dance-hall turn up
in Rumson dressed as magni-
ficently as peacocks, but it
doesn’t go as far as it does in
“The Bacchae.” Nobody gets
torn asunder as poor Pentheus
did, though there are the same
jealousies and hatreds. It all
ends up in the usual sentimental
nonsense dictated by musical-
comedy conventions.
The Greeks had a god for
every feeling—Hera, Bacchus,
Apollo, Aphrodite. There is a
lot of Bacchus and a bit of
Aphrodite, but not much Hera
in the current presentation.
Some of the songs are good—
or good for at least six months
—and the dancing is terrific,
especially when Kevan Johnston,
a young man from 'Perth, half-
murders Janette Liddell, a
talented girl from Melbourne.
The comedy provided by Alec
Kellaway, as a middle-aged
scamp with an affection for grog
and his unsophisticated daughter,
is first-class.
❖ ♦♦♦ *l*
Bush Songs
Leonard Thiele (remembered
for his bush-ballad readings for
the A.8.C.), Patricia Martin and
the Bushwhackers’ Band led by
John Meredith (a leading light of
the Australian Folklore Society)
gave a programme of bush-
songs and spoken ballads to a
Sydney audience which, judged
by the enthusiastic communal
singing of chouses, enjoyed it
hugely.
Astonishing that so much lively
material has been overlooked by
performers since the days when
our forebears beefed out “The
Wild Colonial Boy,” “Ballad of
Ben Hall,” “Wild Rover” and
certain thirsty shearers’ songs
not unconnected with the famous
town of Gundagai.
Some more recent material
was included in the bill, but,
except for some ballads of the
’nineties, this listener preferred
the old songs, particularly a
delightful tune for Lawson’s
“Andy’s Gone With Cattle.”
The Bushwhackers’ Band
specialises in traditional musical
instruments —the bones played
three-in-hand by Bill Nary, the
harmonica, accordion, a drum
made from sticks and string and
a kerosene-tin, not to mention
that remarkable percussion
instrument, the lagerphone, the
main components of which are
broomsticks and beer-bottle tops.
Further recitals are planned in
Sydney, and if this standard is
maintained they should be worth
a visit.—
NANCY KEESING.
Artbursts
Christmas Paintings
While it cannot be said that
Santa Claus dropped-off anything
to take one’s breath away at
Sydney Grosvenor Gallery’s
annual Christmas show of small
paintings, there are plenty of
pleasant things to hang on one’s
walls if anybody wants to buy
one one—or, to make sense of
this sentence, to buy one two.
Notably, because Hilder is
Hilder, and this little cart and
horse in the bush is better than
most to be found for sale these
days, the Hilder; and then,
because he handles the bush
better than anyone else, either of
the two Lance Solomons; and
then, if not the G. K. Townshend
watercolor of the dead tree, the
bay and the boats, dramatic in
its patchwork of moving light
and stormclouds, the quiet small
Langker sunset with the cows
that hangs beside Woodward
Smith’s green willow and creek,
also charming in its rather thin
style.
Celebrities on view include
Gruner and Bunny, neither at
their best, and Russell Flint,
whom one lately saw easily
dominating the watercolors at
the Royal Academy in London
with his suave washes of sand
and sea, always smoothly accom-
plished, always without final
vitality.
In the rest of the company,
which includes Leonard Long,
Johnson, Jackson, Murch rich
with color and Douglas Pratt
unpretentiously summery, one
paused longest before a smooth
bit of tropical-looking landscape
by Enid MacKellar, contrasting
the greys and light-greens of what
appear to be different kinds of
wattles, and some watercolors by
Jean Derrin, who seems to have
developed in warmth and
crispness.
$ *l*
Early Melbourne
Joshua McClelland, showing
early Australian historical prints
and paintings at his Collins-street
gallery in Melbourne, has
unearthed some hitherto-
unknown depictors of early
Melbourne.
What excellent craftsmen they
were and -what a wonderful
record they give of the old wind-
jammers under full sail, the
bustling wharves along the
Yarra, the city cropping up
amongst the gumtrees, the
carriages and bullock-carts and
public houses, and the early
buildings complete to every
detail!
Most of them didn’t think of
themselves as artists, but as
craftsmen, and a lot of them
didn’t bother to sign their
pictures. They were neither
expressionists nor impres-
sionists, but they had been
thoroughly trained and they
carried their training into their
drawing, like proper
men. So at least we know what
Melbourne was like, architec-
turally and topographically, in
the ’fifties, ’sixties and ’seventies.
These days our artists have all
gone expressionistic. They
paint or draw what is inside them
and little of what is outside. If
it weren’t for the camera, nobody
100 years hence would know
what Melbourne is like in the
present era—its great ocean-
liners, its giant semi-trailers, bull-
dozers, front-end loaders, sky-
scrapers, jet-liners, fantastic
traffic-jams, its human sardine-
tins and all the rest of the mad
panoply of a modern city.
F.S.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases:
“The Virtuous Isidore”
(Sydney Savoy): French comedy
about what happens to a young
fellow who wins a 100,000-franc
chastity-prize after all the girls
of the village have been inter-
viewed and rejected as ineligible
to compete. The theme is
stretched a little at times, but
Bourvil, as the young man, is an
amiable clown and, as is usual in
a Marcel Pagnol film, the village
types are a rich and varied
assortment. The moral would
seem to be that innocence and
100,000 francs make impossible
bedfellows.
“The Secret of the Incas”
(Sydney Prince Edward): Buried
Indian treasure and rival factions
after it. Redeemed by magni-
ficent, wide-screen scenes in color
of the Andes, the acting of
Thomas Mitchell and the singing
of Yma Sumac. Otherwise the
acting and presentation are as
naive as the story,
“The Man Between”
(Embassy): Tense British thriller
set amid the ruins of Berlin, with
James Mason as. an agent play-
ing the game of both East and
West. Good performances by
Claire Bloom and Hildegarde
Neff.
“Made in Heaven” (Lyceum):;
Delightful English comedy con-
cerning a beauteous Hungarian
domestic in a middle-class house-
hold in an English village.


PRINCESS and PEASANT
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
5 HE wasn t a princess, but
she was of a noble family,
old as the Holy Roman
Empire. Her family’s
ruined greatness still threw a
feudal shadow over these
mountains.
She carried things with a high
hand, peoples’ courts and
miscegenation laws notwith-
standing. Perhaps they knew in
Vienna, perhaps they would act,
one day, but in the meantime no
village dog dared bark at a von
Adlersberg. Provincial authority
wouldn’t know what to do with
her: They couldn’t just shave
her 1 head and sentence her,
summarily, like a factory girl
caught misbehaving with a
foreigner.
This was a corner of a
shrunken Austria, a tiny rural
valley, and here the von
Adlersbergs had been lords of
soil and harvest, man and maid,
justice high, low and middle, for
generations of old men. A
revolution, or a hundred years,
couldn’t change that entirely, not
in the blood and in the imagina-
tion. The grey Schloss
dominated the village, sleeping
down there in darkness. The
local Party man also slept; but
perhaps he growled in his sleep.
Seigneurial rights—he grinned,
striking a match, the flame
illuminating the furrowed fore-
head, the broken nose, the
reddish hair, the hairy chest.
Mara must have a few humble
relations, down there in the
village, by-blows of other hot-
blooded von Adlersbergs. And
was he . . .? Well, what of
it? He wasn’t complaining.
He puffed contentedly, leaning
on his elbow. Yugoslav
cigarettes weren’t bad.
Queer, though, how immedi-
ate, vivid, the whole scroll of
history became, unrolled before
your eyes. It was there, solid
in stone of castle and cathedral,
winding in narrow streets,
shining on water. The trucks,
the motor-cycles, were there,
too; but all they could do,
finally, was fill the air with
stink of petrol, make a noise.
They had to go round. The
houses could be smothered in
flags, a blaze of red and a march
of black crooked crosses, the
stiff-legged troops could pass
below, battalion after battalion,
company after company, heels
ringing, arms jerking, helmets
turning to the salute, rank after
rank, as they went: but they
went, and the Middle Ages
remained.
A roaming life. Well, he’d
roamed a long way. The bed
was too narrow, low, modern,
like many of Mara’s personal
possessions, out of place in this
medieval stronghold. Here he
was moaning about a bed: Six
months ago he had slept on
straw, and been glad of it;
before that, in mud and snow.
Himmler came tearing through
the village once, on his way to
a Party rally, a shoal of cars
before and behind, swastika
pennants, black outriders, sirens.
In the morning the priest cele-
brated mass as usual; caps and
hats were lifted to Mara.
Or, to be sure, they could
blow it up. There was an air-
raid last night. They heard the
repeated low thunder; saw,
against the snow skyline, red
playing, the reflection of burning
towns.
It gave their lovemaking a
fever, a fury. Within them the
fire of living things, locked in
their arms, the firmness of the
earth, outside, and around them,
the blackness of death. Not
that there was any danger. But
the feeling was there. There all
the time, really, underneath.
Nor was he a peasant, exactly.
But would they be able to see
the difference, the stiff-necked
regiment downstairs, the long
line of dark and cracked oils?
Soldiers, diplomats, grandees of
the Austro-Hungarian Empire,
and their wives; von Adlers-
bergs, right back to Adam. What
would they make of him —an
alien, a private soldier? A man
who had worked with his hands,
doing all sorts of knockabout
bush jobs, and city jobs too, in
his time,
Wie gehts, mein herren. Let
me tell you about the time I was
picking-up, at a shed west of
Bourke . . .
What do you think, sport? He
winked at the silver glimmer on
the dressing-table. Within the
frame the tinted photograph was
a shimmer of dark glass, but he
knew every detail., They con-
fronted him each morning. A
touch of perversion, that, he
couldn’t u zl~> thinking. Why
didn t she put it in another
room? Or, at least, turn it
round.
Hauptmann Gottfried von
Adlersberg. A slanting Norway-
ribbon, eyes like grey field-
glasses, a gloved hand resting
firmly on the short dress sword.
Now, Major von Adlersberg,
Knight’s Cross with Brilliants.
Serving on the Russian Front.
Fortunately.
Her cousin: that explained a
lot. Her husband. Oh, hell!
CUMMER, soft and warm.
Rich with the smell of cut
grasses, pine, leaf-mould, an
awakened earth: teeming with
the tiny noises of night.
A clearness, a delicacy in the
air, under the languor, under the
perfume of a woman’s room, a
sharpness: the faint taste of
snow, from the mountain-tops,
a broken ring of shifting white,
icebergs riding in the night-sky.
They had turned the light out,
throwing the blackout shutters
wide, letting the moonlight swim
into the big, incongruous room.
The tall clock began to strike the
hour, booming and wheezing,
like the heart of an ailing giant;
some day it would explode, and
when it did they would
probably find a black goblin
inside, with a tail. So Mara
said.
The dobermann barked,
suddenly, and the gaunt old
boarhound chained behind the
stables took it up, a hoarse,
roaring challenge. Mara, half-
out of her dress, pulled it off
ruthlessly. It lay in a patch of
light, a silk, tenuous thing of
exquisitely tangled flowers and
dragons, with tiny pearl buttons.
It was his favorite.
She ran to the window in
stockinged feet, and stood there,
listening, her broad face
blanched under the cloud of
hair. The flagstones of the
courtyard stared up, pale leaves
in a pond. Far below, beyond
the broken wall, church tower,
steep roofs, sparkling tiles. The
moving moon cut across the
village in a bar of silver, leaving
a black moat, a sweep, a
precipice of darkness. So that
everything was sharpened, dis-
proportioned, made fantastic,
like one of those strange,
medieval, surrealistic paintings;
an immense glowing castle
leaning over a toy village.
The shadowy dobermann
flickered across the drowned-lily
flagstones, lifted his dim muzzle;
whined. She called to the dogs,
sharply, and turned away.
She undressed in her energetic,
matter-of-fact way. Dark head
ducking to remove the slip ; arms
lifting, firm, white, above
shadow. Bending, wrestling with
the brassiere-clip; a surge of
free breasts, white, surprising.
Balancing, stocking-top freed
from suspender. Wriggling, legs
crossed, pushing the rolled
girdle free of wide white hips
with a tiny poof, a breath of re-
lief. Too tight. A little comedy
with its own charm. A rhythm
in the decisive movements; a
dance in the moonlight. Step-
ping lightly over the carelessly
dropped garments, swaying, with
her tiptoe, swift walk, pure white
one moment, all shadow the
next.
The boarhound started again,
a savage clamor, and the
cigarette burnt out on the floor,
a dull red eye fading into the
ash.
While she slept the Aus-
tralian smoked. He had plenty
of cigarettes, plenty to eat,
nothing much to do all day. At
night he wasn’t tired.
At times like this, Mara
breathing rhythmically beside
him, he was filled with wonder:
at himself; at her: at their
strange relationship which, most
of the time, he accepted with the
simplicity of habit.
TT began on the train, at
■*- Vienna. Six of them left
behind at Kaisersteinbriick,
travelling with two guards. The
guards, looking to their own
comfort, commandeered a first-
class compartment, shooed the
grumbling civilians. Business
of the Reich.
Then, after the engine started,
Mara and another woman
appeared. She overawed the
guards and distributed the
cigarettes, like a hospital visitor.
She sat beside him and
graciously chattered about Aus-
tralia. Her English was perfect,
and he remarked on it. Why,
she said, I know London like the
palm of my hand ; like Wien.
He looked a sorry sight then,
after the trip through the
Balkans. She was the first
woman to speak to him since
his capture. She was dainty,
intensely feminine, gay. He was
impressed.
Of what she said, he could
remember little. Once, with a
quick glance at the guards, she
said: “We Austrians, you know,
we are not like the Germans.
We do not hate because we are
told, love tQ orders. We have
minds . . .”
Her voice trailed off, a
mysterious intimation of
sympathy, of complicity, almost.
For a wild moment he wondered
if she was a British agent. He
looked at her hopefully, half-
expecting her to slip him a
secret message.
Well, she wasn’t. He knew
that now.
Another thing he remembered:
turning to him suddenly, her
fine eyes watching his face
intently, she said: “Tell me.
Aren’t you glad to be out of it —
all that? At least, you are
alive.”
He said “No.”
Soon afterwards she went
back to her own compartment.
'TTIEN he was sent to work on
her land, one of a large
party from the Stalag. She rode
up one day, as they were
wrestling with the big stones,
making a culvert, and he
recognised her immediately: she
recognised him, too, but she
made no sign. She sat on her
brown cob, quietly watching
them work, while the gaffer
stood beside her stirrup,
spinning his green and feathered
hat in big, work-twisted hands,
venturing an explanation now
and again in a quiet, humble
voice.
That much was chance.
Next day a smaller party
was sent back to work in
the Schloss itself. He was
given a special job, by an
old, sour-faced man-
servant, and after that, for
a week, he tramped up
from the Stalag every day,
a moonfaced guard in
attendance, and tramped
back every night. He was
supposed to be a carpenter,
and he was supposed to be
fitting up one of the big
mouldy rooms downstairs
for use as an emergency hospital
ward.
But nobody seemed very
serious about the job. He was
not a tradesman, but he had
done rough bush carpentry. The
tools they gave him were
primitive and he soon lost
interest in the work. Every mid-
day Franz, the sour-faced
retainer, brought him a slab of
black bread and a big white
bowl full of thick soup. This
alone was worth the trip.
After the first couple of days
he discovered some yellow-
leaved Tauschnitz editions, and
spent a couple of hours every
day reading. He was reading
George Eliot’s Letters, when he
looked up, late one afternoon,
and saw her standing in the
doorway, watching him.
“Are you fond of reading?”
she said.
He looked at her sharply,
suspecting irony. She was no
longer the girl on the train ; she
was the enemy.
“Yes,” he said at last,
‘‘There are a lot of English
books upstairs,” she said. “I’ll
tell Franz to lend you some.”
The next day she came again,
and stood quietly for a few
minutes, watching him work.
Then she said abruptly: “There
are many odd jobs here. Would
you like to stay? To sleep
here?”
He nodded. It was better
than the Stalag.
“Good,” she said briskly, “I
have talked to the Commandant.
You will sleep in a room next to
Franz. Franz is an old soldier,
and he will be responsible for
you. He will lock you in your
room every night. There are
bars on the window. In any
case, 1 would not advise you to
try to escape. It would be
awkward for me and it is im-
possible. There is only the one
way, and that leads to the
village. It would be silly.” Then,
for the first time, she smiled, the
warm, intimate smile of the
train. “We will not work you
too hard.”
Early next morning, in the
Stalag, he packed his possessions
in the greasy haversack he had
carried all the way from Crete.
He took the silk Air Force map
from inside the palliasse, un-
folded its many creases, and
stared at it thoughtfully. Then
he folded it up in a dirty hand-
kerchief and buttoned it in his
pocket . . .
V/fARA’S limbs jerked beside
him, and he puffed at his
cigarette, making a glow, staring
down at her tumbled hair, the
clenched white fist on the pillow,
with concern.
In a wandering life his morals,
he supposed, had not been
superior to those of the average
alley-cat. That, at least, was
one opinion. He grinned,
thinking of some of the people
who disapproved of him. Men,
mostly: men ware the indignant
sex. Women were realists. But
seducing this woman had been
no part of his plan.
For that matter, he doubted
whether he had seduced any
((Continued on page 22)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN RUSSELL late of 15 Jenematta
Street Dapto.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
LOUVAIN RUSSELL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3792 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend yog may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on the 15th day
of March 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
HERALD, BRUCE BRIERLEY & ENG-
LAND, Petitioner’s Solicitors, of 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CLARANCE KEITH HILL formerly
of Jamieson Street Gateshead. —TAKE
NOTICE that EUNICE VALMAI HILL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3543 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th day of March 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
chfitge from R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor,
44 King Street, Newcastle.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
SL.^^ re y t ifJh
ff
BELtS
1 WL
0
D| STIILERS««"SCOT
CSTABLI SHIO
►ROOUCT
What do you mean
by ‘Scotch’?
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent distillers. Independent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
Established 1825
• V
TO ALL WHO FLY 8.0.A.C. . .
*s
Men of business, men of action,
Men of politics of every faction
Film stars, lawyers, graziers, airmen,
Doctors, dentists, engineers and chairmen .• •
We’ve only space to name a few.
So here’s to daughters, wives and girl friends, too. • •
BEST WISHES FOR A VERY HAPPY CHRISTMAS
AND A PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR!
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents
and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General
Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
A49/AU
Education in
AUSTRALIAN
SCHOOLS
By "SCHOOLIE"
PROBABLY one of the
basic ways to improve our
educational system would
be to adopt an idea which
has been tried successfully in
England—the association of
regional colleges with general
community-centres. This implies
acceptance of only one school to
each community of between 200
and 1000 families, the sug-
gestion that the rural region is
the best social unit.
Before the last war the edu-
cation-officer of the English
shire of Cambridge put forward
the theory that rural culture
could only be preserved today
on the basis of rural regions—
not villages. A rural region
would be a group of villages
with a main village, in which a
Countryman’s College would be
situated: this would be the cul-
tural centre of the region. This
major village would have a
school, adult-education classes,
a dramatic society, a literary
society, a music society and the
local-government officers.
The excellence of this idea
has been proved by the success
of the Cambridgeshire Country-
man’s Colleges, The scheme
would bring many recent Aus-
tralian movements into a
manageable perspective: oppor-
tunity clubs, theatre groups, dis-
cussion groups and the like. All
these could be concentrated in
one building, on a rural-region
basis. And this building would
be the centre for all, cultural
activity in the region.
The Tasmanian area-schools,
begun in 1936, attempted some-
thing of the kind. They were
consolidated, up-to-date units,
catering for the education of all
the children within a certain
area. Their aim has been,
through formal and practical
education, to tap the creative
interests of all types of youth.
But informed opinion today
appears to be that these schools,
so laudably instituted, are a
failure. They have not been
sufficiently dissociated from the
uninspired methods of the
standardised schools. They have
not developed character to the
degree required, in a national
sense, if it is accepted that there
is more to education than teach-
ing a boy or girl how to earn a
living.
This country needs creative
men as leaders, men in har-
mony with their environment as
farmers, and men of intellect and
imagination as publicists, in the
professions and, generally, dis-
tributed among the occupa-
tional groups which usually
tend to concentrate in the cities.
We need a mixture of these
qualities in all groups, of
course, but what we do not
want are unbalanced men and
persons deficient in character.
The present educational sys-
tem (taking the various State
systems as a sort of f.a.q.
sample) does not develop
character, or innate qualities of
a special nature, to any signifi-
cant extent. There are, by and
large, nation-wide deficiencies
in ordinary educational facili-
ties. And such rural schools as
there are tend to induce country
children to swell the drift to the
cities.
The recent “Current Affairs
Bulletin” on “Our Schools” out-
lined the position of Australian
schools in regard to other
countries and other systems. It
stated (in the boldest words pos-
sible for a Government-subsi-
dised publication) that we are
a backward nation, inasmuch as
the basis of our educational sys-
tem consists of replacing the
community’s pool of skilled
labor rather than developing it
by developing individuals. This
is partly due to concentration
on a subject-curriculum instead
of activity- and core-curricula.
Instruction in disconnected sub-
jects does not seem a sensible
way to occupy a child’s day. Per-
haps, however, with a shortage
of teachers, it is the only
method possible under current
conditions.
The question of activity- and
core-curricula in Australian
schools deserves consideration.
Music and art are examples of
indoor activities , which could
be included in a core-curricu-
lum. The recent Unesco con-
ference on Music in Education
agreed that:
# Music can plan an im-
portant part in fostering
international understand-
ing ;
# music makes better citi-
zens of men and women
who understand it;
O young people who are en-
couraged to develop a
love of music are happier
and healthier for it,
O and because of it their
characters are infinitely
better formed.
The part of plastic art in edu-
cation was emphasised by Plato,
and has been rediscovered by
modern educationalists. Some
of the Great Public Schools
have been doing interesting
work in this field, notably Gee-
long Grammar School. A re-
cent exhibition at the Peter Bray
gallery in Melbourne of some
of the novel work done at the
college, especially by the
younger boys, aroused much
interest. In N.S.W., too, at
least one other private school
has been experimenting along
these lines.
Geelong Grammar School is
undertaking another interesting
activity. Three years ago Dr.
J. R. Darling, the headmaster,
told a speech-day gathering
about it. The idea was to build
an extension of the school on
the slopes of Mt. Timbertop, 17
miles from Mansfield, on the
fringe of the Australian Alps.
His aim was to give each boy a
year in an environment quite
different from the public-school
atmosphere at Corio. At
Timbertop the boy was to be
thrown very much on his own
resources. Today Timbertop is
a reality. The boys live in self-
governing units of 12, and have
a good deal of personal free-
dom.
School-work is based on the
normal subject curriculum.
Masters do not scruple, how-
ever, to interrupt regular time-
tables to take advantage of days
suitable for such activities as
planting trees or repairing
roads. And, oddly enough,
normal school-work has not suf-
fered. The emphasis of the
scheme is on practical activities.
It is well explained 'in an
article in a recent “Education
News” and in a feature article
in “The Times Educational
Supplement.” The former is by
the headmaster, the latter by
M. L. Charlesworth, an active
visiting master from Shrews-
bury School, England. I advise
anyone with a special interest in
education who hasn’t seen these
articles to look them up.
Perhaps Timbertop could be
the forerunner of the type of
school that will really modernise
Australia’s education. It is cer-
tainly the basis on which Aus-
tralian boys and girls could be
made aware of their land. This
is a first necessity.
The Tasmanian area-schools
were a good try. Timbertop
works ; although, in estimating
the success,* the freedom of im-
plementation possible for an
outstanding headmaster of a
Great Public School should be
given due weight.
To fill out the framework we
need teachers. And those
teachers must be of high calibre.
The question is—how to get
them?
For a start, salary would have
to be made attractive. Then the
men and women selected would
have to be trained. Teachers’-
colleges, even if they were not
overcrowded, would seem to be
inadequate for training teachers
to the standard required. If the
principle of regional schools is
accepted, then rural teachers’-
colleges (such as the one at
Armidale, N.S.W.) would be the
best places for training teachers.
Or, if the scheme for rural uni-
versities eventuates, such uni-
versities should have a Faculty
of Education.


you get down
to bedrock cost!
You save money when you
build a "Durabestos" Asbestos
Cement timber frame home—save
by using "Durabestos" for exterior
walls, interior walls and ceilings—
save on foundation costs as well.
"Durabestos" is adaptable to all
design trends, easy to erect and
paint, fire resistant and vermin
proof—ideal for Australian homes.
pD«V* I 11 kOMOI
11 emu sins
IrviNC RA
<7 V *
FLAN
No.
244
€t
IURABESTOS
/ ASBESTOS-CEMENT BUILDING SHEETS
FREE
Write to —
Wunderlich
Limited, Baptist
Street, Redfern,
for a copy of
the Small Homes
Booklet.
READILY
AVAILABLE
FROM LOCAL
DISTRIBUTORS.
Eyes nothing
can escape
Australian aborigines can
follow a track no white man
can detect, trace a criminal’s
path on city pavements—even
judge a kangaroo’s speed, age,
state of health from its foot-
prints.
December Reader’s Digest
brings you fascinating high-
lights of one of the world’s
most ancient races, and how
they help our policemen “get
their man.”
There’s a wealth of stimulat-
ing articles condensed from
world’s leading magazines and
books in December Reader’s
Digest. Plus a 20-page book
condensation of “The Gentle
House,” heart-warming lesson
on how to be a parent. On
sale now only 1/6 at “ all
newsagents and bookstalls.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIO
woman. That belief was a
youthful vanity, left behind,
with other luggage superfluous in
a wandering life. He wasn’t
dogmatic about this theory of
women —he wasn’t dogmatic
about anything—but it was his
experience that women, if they
liked him, generally let him
know. If they didn’t, he didn’t
bother them. He liked women,
but, above women, above every-
thing, he prized his freedom.
Being a prisoner was ironical.
But, he had promised himself, he
wouldn’t be a prisoner long. But
he wouldn’t go rushing off, like
some of these young fools,
theatrically escaping and getting
caught in the first half-dozen
kilometres. Escaping was easy:
getting to a neutral country was
hard. Europe was a military
camp, and to travel through a
camp you have to know the rules,
wear the right clothes, be
prepared , . ,
Mara—he glanced at the
sleeping head —Mara complicated
things. He had always been
afraid of continued intimacy
with any woman. If he had a
dog he became fond of it, hated
leaving it. And Mara . . . there
was something about her that
melted him, sapped the self-
sufficiency, his strength and
pride. Under her high-and-
mightiness, despite the small
irritations.
He would take her, too, if
she.would come. But would she?
And if she did, how would she
fit into that life, back home?
Life in a small country town.
Going into town on Saturday
afternoons, kotowing to the
bank-manager’s wife, the doctor’s
wife . . . Mrs. Joe Beattie. Joe
does a bit of droving since he
came back from the war, runs
a few sheep, a few head of
scrubby cattle, on the old place.
A nice little thing, Mrs. Joe,
really: a foreigner, though. We
must be nice to her. Invite her
to a C.W.A. meeting some time,
let her help with the supper at
the next ball.. .
He couldn’t see her settling
into that sort of life. Or himself.
He twisted, fumbling for a
cigarette. Even thinking like
this was taking a lot for granted.
He prided himself on being a
realist: that was why he appealed
to women. To some women. He
wasn’t handsome: ugly, almost.
He was over thirty. He didn’t
represent either youthful glamor
or security. Still, some women
liked him. They were singu-
larly free of malice, undemand-
ing, these women he had known
briefly in cities and bush towns:
which indicated, if it indicated
anything, that he had touched
none of them very deeply. He
was glad of that, because he had,
on the whole, a cynical liking
for his fellow-humans, and little
vanity. But now, Mara—what
reason had he to suppose that
her reaction to him was any
different?
Well, he had some reason,
perhaps. She was different. But
there were those other differ-
ences,* trifling and immense,
between her outlook and his.
They cropped up every now and
again; no more than a tone of
the voice, sometimes a shrug of
the shoulders. Suddenly, talking
casually, he would recognise it,
ram his head against it, the
impenetrable wall. Strange that
two people could be so intimate
and so alien. Strange that they
should be intimate at all.
"YESTERDAY old Franz did
± something wrong and she
screamed at him, gave him a
proper Germanic dressing-down.
One of his earliest impressions of
the Germans —an officer bullying
a soldier. Brutal, uncontrolled,
absurd violence, completely
lacking in dignity, to his way of
thinking, foreign to his idea of
discipline, soldiers, soldiering.
Degrading and wrong. Impos-
sible to respect a nation like
that.
Mara always stressed that she
was an Austrian. But she was
all German then. Franz hobbled
from the room, cowed, and she
turned to him smiling. Quite
cool.
She must have seen something
in his face, because she said
quickly: “Don’t take any notice.
They expect it, you know.” She
hooked her cool white arm into
his.
Then, again, her calm
assumption that she, and her
caste, occupied some mystic
centre of the universe. She never
insisted on it—she never had to —
but it was there, all the same.
Her clothes, shoes, handbags—
more than one woman could use
in a lifetime, he thought—were
symbolic, he sometimes thought.
In far countries beasts were
slaughtered, in obscure factories
men and women worked, pre-
paring her furs, and underclothes,
handbags and perfumes. These
goods travelled in trains, ships,
passed through hundreds of
hands. In her wardrobes she
held the four quarters of the
earth in fee. She took it for
granted.
Yet, she was poor: compara-
tively. A brother’s marriage to
a rich American, sales of a few
paintings, had propped the
estate up for a time. She worked
hard managing it. But soon it
would fall, never to rise again.
She and her caste were doomed.
She was warm and kind. But,
all the same, he couldn’t help
feeling that if catastrophe came,
and there was a choice, she
would save herself at the expense
of those peasants down there
with as little hesitation as she
would retain a pedigreed animal
and sacrifice another. For much
the same reasons.
She laughed when he voiced
these thoughts, awkwardly. She
accused him qf sentimentality, of
inverted snobbery. But—here
was the puzzle—how did he fit
into her tight little world of caste
and peasantry? Was he like a
village maiden, snatched for an
hour to cheer the lord’s bed?
The thought was incongruous.
Or was her arrogance so finely-
tempered that she thought that
an alliance with a von Adlers-
berg, even a left-handed one,
automatically ennobled?
ANLY once she answered him
directly. Then, placing her
soft white hand on his hairy
chest, she said: “You, you—
bushman. What have you to do
with our old, dark world? You
are from the new world. Do
not think about it.”
He called her a slave-dealer.
But he had to admit that she was
a generous one. The prisoners-
of-war who worked on her
land British, French, Yugo-
slavs and, lately, Russians—
were decently fed, adequately
housed. She kept them, and
paid the State for their labor.
The State, for its part, supplied
guards. It must have been a
profitable arrangement or she
would never have gone into it.
And, as she pointed out, the men
were better'off working for her
than they would be in the
Stalag, or working for a
contractor.
He had worked for a con-
tractor. He told her about it.
They were weak from the long
trip in cattle-trucks, half-
starved. Most of them still had
attacks of dysentery, and the
pick-and-shovel work had been
hard. But, at first, it hadn’t been
bad. The food was prepared by
women in the farmhouse where
they were quartered, plenty of
potatoes with a tasty sauce at
midday, a fat lump of pork,
sometimes. Bread and coffee
when they knocked off at dark.
Coffee, and some bread saved
from the night before, at five
o’clock in the morning, before
they started work. After the
nauseating soups of sour
cabbage and rotted potatoes at
the Stalag the food was wonder-
ful, luxurious. Sometimes there
were back - ups. The guards
didn’t hustle them, and every
now and then an officer dropped
in, inspected the kitchen, their
bunks, the lavatories.
Mara nodded: “I knew him.
An old man, very tall?”
Yes, he said. But after a
couple of weeks he didn’t come
any more . . .
She made a quick gesture, and
he stared at her.
“Yes,” she said. “He was our
friend. But he was suspected of
being involved in the Starhem-
berg conspiracy, and now . . .
He was the old Austria. But
it is best not to talk of him.”
She shivered.
A new officer came, not very
often, and spent most of his
time laughing and joking with
the contractor. Things changed.
Work was longer, harder. Food
was cut down, and, sometimes,
when the quota was not filled,
there was no food. They worked
every day, and the guards used
their rifle-butts freely. The con-
tractor probably made it worth
their while. But the worst thing
was the vicious circle of work
and food. Flesh - and - blood
couldn’t stand that pace, and
the contractor knew it. But he
knew, too, that he could send
them back to the Stalag as they
broke down; draw on fresh
material. In the meantime, he
was making money. No Red
Cross parcels, then, to supple-
ment their rations, he explained.
God how he hated that
contractor • • •
He tried to make her feel
something of his hatred of the
contractor. He told her how,
towards the end, he spent all
day dreaming of making a rush
at him, dying happy if he could
get his hands round that fat
throat. How he dreamed of
coming back after the war, all
the way to that picture-card
Austrian village, for the sheer
physical pleasure of squeezing
the profiteering life out of the
big fat slob. Going to sleep in
the locked, stuffy room, a urine
bucket beside his tiered-bunk,
empty belly rumbling, fingers
twitching , . . Seeing the fat,
supercilious face of the con-
tractor, dressed up in his fancy
costume of leather braces and
shorts over gross knees. Like a
fat lady at a circus . . .
“I know him,” Mara inter-
rupted disdainfully. “Schmidt.
A very vulgar man.”
“Vulgar!” He stated at her.
“It’s not his table-manners I’m
complaining about!”
“No, no. Of course.” She
touched him lightly, the quick,
swooping movement, impulsive
and tender. “But don’t you see,
a man like that, vulgar, insensi-
tive, pushing—how could he act
otherwise, with power? To him,
you, you and your comrades,
were cattle, simply cattle, to be
exploited. He has not the
imagination to see anything
more.”
“H’m, yes, maybe.” He
didn’t see that it made much
difference.
“Poor man,” she murmured,
touching him, “You had a hard
time , . .”
“I don’t want your bloody
pity.” He shrugged away.
Suddenly he was reminded of her
manner patting the big, scarred
head of the boarhound.
“Temper!” She smiled,
raised her eyebrows, turned on
her heel. She punished him
later.
He spoke about the time with
the contractor once again. They
were sitting in front of the fire
in her bedroom, one black
winter’s night, an hour for
drowsy talk. So, idly, he told
her about Snowy, The first day
Snowy was sent to the kitchen
to help the women. Big, hefty
young women. There, in the
cellar, in the middle of peeling
potatoes. Snowy, somehow,
managed to seduce one of the
women.
Or was seduced. But the
point was, he said, laughing,
Snowy was the only man among
them at that time capable of the
deed. They dreamt about food,
not women. But Snowy, the
plunge, as it were, taken, pros-
pered. They fed him like a
prince. There he sat, all day,
while the rest of them were
working, peeling spuds, fussed
over by the women . . .
“You think there is an
analogy?”
His jaw dropped; “An . . .
No. Of course not. Just a
story about . .
Her generous lips were com-
pressed : “Never, never speak to
me like that again—understand?”
“But . . .”
“I’ve heard quite enough,
thank you.”
She was very much the great
lady.
/~\NE more cigarette.
He swapped his English
ration for Yugoslav cigarettes,
getting eight for one, with one
of the British doctors in the
Stalag. The intermediary was the
sergeant-major who delivered
parcels to the working-parties,
his only contact with his own
kind. Lately, he thought, there
had been a change in the
sergeant - major’s manner, a
curtness . . . And he, for his
part, noticed little things . . .
After weeks of Mara’s cultivated
TOGETHER
No, she never loved me. It was the day
moving always quickly into night.
Children fear the heart. It is night’s way
to make horrible the movement in the stone,
and she was a child in the dark. She was alone.
At night beside me, in my arms beside me,
she would be racked with sudden sobs of thought—
her eyes to face my eyes and so remind me
that tears can string across the face like beads,
diamond or glass like toy unwanted needs.
The room was cheap enough to hold the loves,
the sentiments of sentimental self,
although the dirty-window weariness of wharves,
seen through the window that informed the bed,
offered a world more welcome to the head.
The mind demands theatricals, a set,
and there the lights lit darkness on the bay.
The heart requires the properties of night,
and there outside was all that night can hold,
the still, inhuman patience of the world.
The harbor lay in silence in its dark.
And she fell silent too with thoughts of pain.
And while 1 helped the view to find its mark
I left her knowing she was quite unknown
and tragically believed myself alone.
n. s. WALES.
RAY MATHEW.


;s •s
I mm
L
rn
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street, Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
A.C.A. policies
Afo
For
* life
* fire
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER'S
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
* MOTOR
VEHICLES
Fast Flights to
NORTH AMERICA
ť
Canadian Pacific . . „
only airline providing
• Super DC-6B Service
• Non-stop service Fiji-Hawaii
• 18| hours' stopover, famous
Waikiki Beach luxury hotek
VANCOUVER
m
HAWfll
1
FIJI
S’.v.
AUCKLAND
\jSYONEY
Your choice of luxury
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
service.
* TOURIST
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Sales
Agents for Canadian Pacific) or your local
travel agent.
w "VM
AIRLINES
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS. 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
for> gift...-for self
Onoto
...|)€ii£r|)encil sets!
WIDE RANGE OF COLOURS
N824/3.2
English, the sergeant-major’s
Australian accent sounded
strangely raw, turns of speech
struck him as uncouth. His
accent, and familiar expressions,
of a short time ago. He had a
new, rather painful sensi-
tivity . . .
Mara. She was his woman,
after all. The women he had
known were dimmed beside her.
After the broad blue sweep of
the Pacific, jewel-flecked before
the rising sun, the little brown
billabongs never look quite the
same, the big tanks of childhood
are neither noble nor deep . .
He was standing under a
pepper-tree, in the dusty western
town he called home, waiting for
Mara ; she walked past, talking
to the bank-manager’s wife, and
he longed to touch her, but
couldn’t move, tried to speak,
but was dumb. He tried again,
gathering all his forces—
“ Mara! ”
f "pHE name rang through his
A sleep, but it wasn’t his voice.
Blinking against the white shock
of the electric light, bolding up
his hand as a shield, he sprang
upright, sat there, staring at the
man in the doorway.
“Mein Gott!”—from Mara, a
sort of moan, and in one swift
movement she had pulled the
sheets over her head, burrowing
in, a frightened child.
But this was the panic of half-
sleep. In a moment she had
overcome it, flung the sheet
aside and sat up, white and half-
smiling.
For a moment they were
frozen in their respective posi-
tions; the Australian, long of
arm, his hairy chest bare, one
hand shielding his crinkled blue
eyes, one huge fist clenched,
poised grotesquely in the air.
Dark-red hair thrust up, an
untidy comb.
The woman, arms folded, sit-
ting a little bunched, her, broad
pale face oddly composed, oddly
smiling. And the man in the
doorway, deep-set grey eyes
under the high-fronted cap of
a German officer, face thin,
tragic, riding-breeches elegant
and shabby. One gloved hand
still on the handle of the door,
while the clock beat remorse-
lessly. He shut the door, and
at the sharp sound the surface
was broken, a ripple on the pool,
reflections chasing reflections,
into eternity . . .
A glance was enough—
although, automatically, his head
swung in the direction of the
silver-framed photograph, back
again—this was Mara’s husband.
The same face, only older, tired.
The Knight-in-Shining-Armor,
the armor somewhat threadbare.
What illusions did they knock
out of you on the Russian front,
my decorated friend? Was it
pleasant to see the German
Army run, the big machine
breaking, as, before, all the
others broke and ran?
Despite the fear of death that
had come into the room, despite
the dryness of his mouth and the
pounding against his ribs, Joe
looked at Mara’s husband with
something of a professional in-
terest. He had a dignity and a
pathos independent of himself,
merely because he was alive, a
human living figure out of the
charnel-house of the east.
He walked across the room
quickly, swinging his shoulders,
and, as he walked, he was strip-
ping off his gloves, tucking
them in his belt. On his face a
dreamy, fascinated expression
that Joe recognised, a deadly
rhythm in his walk, the riding-
boots squeaking. Dress-uniform
for the occasion: coming home
on leave.
With the sensitivity that makes
a man facing a firing-squad
record on his useless memory
details of brass on a rifle-butt, a
droning bee, the smell of hay,
Joe, in those moments, compre-
hended the man’s personal
tragedy. Impersonally, without
sympathy, but fully. Since he
himself would soon be dead.
Already, without for a
moment removing his fascinated
stare from Joe’s face, the man’s
fingers, long, white fingers, like
Mara’s, were fumbling with the
dip of the small black holster.
Would he shoot Mara, too?
Perhaps not. But shooting him
would cause only the most
trifling inconvenience, could be
managed without any scandal.
A prisoner-of-war. Shot while
attempting to escape. If this
man cared. But Joe didn’t think
he cared . . .
“Gottfried?”
He stopped, as if stung. She
began to speak, pouring out a
flood of German.
Slowly, reluctantly, almost,
the rapt look left his face. He
raised his voice suddenly and
talked rapidly, pausing, every
now and again, emphasising
something, a sharp indrawn
breath, a passionate “Eh?”
Mara’s voice changed, seemed to
grow colder, more deliberate.
But Joe, glancing sideways, saw
her fingers digging into the white
flesh of her arms, saw her eyes
widen as she swallowed.
He was still beyond reach.
But, perhaps—he relaxed de-
liberately, preparing for the leap,
the blind charge. He could kill
this man, Mara’s husband, if he
got his hands on him, before he
had a chance to unbutton that
holster . . . But if he cried out?
Well, he’d risk that, had to risk
it , . .
As if he could follow his
thoughts, Mara’s husband
turned neatly and began pacing
up and down, between the win-
dow and the door, well beyond
reach. He kept up a jerky con-
versation with Mara, who
answered him briefly. Ja. Nein.
Vielleicht •• • Moglich. Aber,
nein . . .
His head was cocked, side-
ways, and he was watching the
two of them narrowly. Once
again his hand slid to the holster
and he stood still. He looked at
Joe fully, blankly, a ranging
look, and Joe saw the muscles
of his jaw stand out suddenly
and saw, in the same flash of
understanding, the pistol no
longer in the holster but in his
hand . . .
A TREMOR passed over his
his face and he pushed the
pistol back in the holster. He
turned abruptly and walked to
the window, his back to them.
The clock ticked.
Joe turned and stared at
Mara, and she stared into his
rough face, her dark eyes burn-
ing under the dark, rather heavy
eyebrows. Her lips were trembl-
ing slightly. She had never
looked more lovely, he thought,
the rich, dark hair spilling over
her white shoulders. She bit
her lip to stop the trembling and
her hand closed over his thick,
hairy wrist, a fierce hot clutch.
Her husband turned and said
something, his voice thick. Her
face changed. He came to
within a couple of feet of the
bed.
“You are, I believe, an Aus-
tralian?” He spoke with diffi-
culty.
Joe nodded.
“An officer?”'
“No.”
“I —see.”
A long silence, while they
looked at each other. Mara
slowly relaxed her grip on his
wrist, and suddenly he was
aware of his nakedness. It made
him feel inadequate, ridiculous,
and for a moment his mind was
perplexed by this embarrassing
problem. He couldn’t just slide
back under the sheets. He
looked longingly at his uniform,
neatly folded on a chair. .
“I —am —” Mara’s husband
said, in the queer, strangled
voice—“just back from the
Russian Front. On long leave.
You served —where?”
Joe stared at him for a
moment, frowning. “Desert.
Greece. Crete.”
He nodded, absently. The grey
eyes turned back to Mara. She
flushed slightly, and pulled up
the sheet, A brief smile
twitched across her husband’s
mouth. He turned again, and
began his pacing, up and down,
up and down, between the door
and the window. As he walked
he talked, flinging, now and
then, English at Joe.
“You hear that? But, of
course, you do not speak our
language. You are from the
New World that has no need to
learn such things . . .
“There’s something would in-
terest you ... You must get
my wife to interpret some
time . . . Unfortunately I am
too busy ... A nice point she
raised, a moment ago, about the
philosophy of violence . . .
“I am trying—but, of course,
we can have no secrets from
you, you are, I might say, our
other self, one of the family, 1
am trying to explain to my wife
—our wife —that there is a
difference between fighting for
a regime of which one disap-
proves and being overwhelmed
by a greater evil. Well, not a
greater evil, perhaps, but a more
personal one. I haVe said that
badly? You must excuse me—
both of you. English is not the
language of philosophy. Oh,
yes, I disapprove of the regime.
Disapprove of the war, too, just
as passionately as Mara. But,
since we are what we are, our
family—should I include you?
No, hardly—since we are part
of this civilisation which you
are pleased to describe as
decadent —you, or Mara, it
doesn’t matter which —then I,
when it comes to the moment of
decision, have only the one
honorable choice. But, if lam
to die, I would have preferred
more pleasant memories . . .”
He stopped again. “I thought
to kill you,” he said softly. “But
—perhaps—it solves nothing.”
He turned away and walked
to the door. He opened it and
said something in German. He
closed the door behind him and
they could hear his regular foot-
steps echoing down the ancient
hall.
6 6 WHAT did he say?”
* ~ Mara said, quietly and
contemptuously: “He said he is
going to surrender his leave. He
is going—back. To be killed.”
She stared stonily at the cherubs
on the clock. “That is in his
character—the romantic gesture.
That is my husband, my friend.
He will go and be killed, de-
liberately, because I am Young
and alive. He left me, to fight in
a war he didn’t believe in . . .
With him it is philosophical
speculation. He denies the
power of the emotions and
surrenders to them. He . . .
Suddenly, with a gesture of
abandon, she threw her dark
head on her knees and sobbed,
painfully, deep, tearing sobs, her
body shuddering.
TTE was sitting on his greasy
haversack, in the courtyard.
He looked up and saw her stand-
ing near the side doorway.
he said dully. It was
painful to look at her. She was
wearing the silk dress.
“So —you are going?”
Her fine dark eyes looked at
him calmly. He fiddled with a
strap. “Yes. The guard’ll be
here soon.”
There was a gulf between
them. He would like to tell her,
now, what he really thought.
But the words wouldn’t come.
She smiled bitterly: “You, too.
You will leave me.” She turned
and walked away.
There were so many things he
could say. But, as he was think-
ing of them, turning them over
in his mind, the guard came
round the corner of the broken
wall.
“Upstand! ” he said.
“All right, George.” He
stood up and pulled the haver-
sack on to his shoulder. He
didn’t look back. Well, he
thought, going down the hill, I
still have the map.


C.S.R. Co.’s REPORT
Points from General Manager’s Report to Shareholders
o Record Row Sugar Production in Australia
• Drought Reduces Raw Sugar Production in Fiji
• Bulk handling of Raw Sugar for Sydney, Melbourne
• Record Sales of Building Materials
(C.S.R. makes a wide variety of building materials for Australian homebuild,ers)
Total Australian production of raw
sugar in 1954 is expected to be a record,
Dr. R. W. Harman, General Manager of
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.,
said in his recent report to Company
shareholders.
Dr. Harman said that
the Queensland cane crop
now being harvested is
again very good, and,
although the N.S.W. crop is
low, total raw sugar pro-
duction is expected to be
1,300,000 tons.
This is about 100,000
tons higher than the pre-
vious record, achieved in
1953. This table shows how
raw sugar production has
risen since 1950:
Australian Production
of Raw Sugar
Year Tons of raw sugar
1950 896,800
1951 725,300
1952 916,600
1953 1,213,000
1954 1,300,000 (est.)
Early indications are for
a good crop in 1955, but,
regrettably the harvesting
and raw sugar manufacture
will have to be restricted
in 1955 to approximately
1,200,000 tons because of
market limitations.
Production of raw sugar
at the C.S.R. Company’s
Australian mills is also a
record, despite a poor season
in N.S.W. (C.S.R. owns 7
of the 34 Australian raw
sugar mills.)
In New South Wales the
early promise of a normal
season was upset by heavy
floods in February. Indus-
trial trouble in the cane
fields, continued wet
weather and shortage of
cane cutters have inter-
rupted mill work and the
planting of cane for next
year. The C.S.R. Co. owns
the three sugar mills in
N.S.W.
Fiji drought reduces
raw sugar production
Exceptional drought con-
ditions during the latter
part of 1953 seriously re-
duced the cane crop for
m
The floating crane Titan lifting the 100-ton upper section
of a new bulk raw sugar crane into position at the
C.S.R. Co.’s Pyrroont Refinery, Sydney, recently.
Bulk handling of raw sugar is expected to help check
the increasing costs of transport and handling. It is
important to the sugar industry and to the general public,
that the retail price of sugar be kept as low as possible.
The increased efficiency of bulk handling will help.
1954, and the sugar con-
tent of the cane also is
abnormally low. Although
the area harvested is much
the same as for the previous
year, the estimated output
of raw sugar all made at
C.S.R. Company’s mills, is
approximately 25% less,
amounting to only 140,000
tons.
Bulk handling of
Raw Sugar
The installation of new
equipment at the C.S.R.<
Co.’s Sydney Refinery for
fast unloading and storing
of raw sugar in bulk,
instead of in sacks, is
proceeding according to
schedule, and the plant
should be in operation
early in the new year. Two
cargoes of bulk sugar have
been received at Melbourne
and this refinery is almost
ready to handle most of its
raw sugar requirements in
bulk, although by a different
method and not as fast as
the Sydney Refinery.
During the first nine
months of this year,
173.000 tons oT raw sugar
from Queensland and
18.000 tons from Fiji were
shipped overseas in bulk.
Since. mechanical bulk
handling facilities are not
yet available at the ports,
the ships were loaded by
emptying sacks into the
hold. This method will be
used until the change to
complete mechanical bulk
handling is made at mills
and ports. Progress is being
made on bulk installations
at the Queensland ports of
Mackay and Lucinda, Bulk
installations started to
operate at two N.S.W.
mills this year.
Refined sugar
in Australia
Sales of refined products
during the year ended
30th September, 1954,
amounted to 470,000 tons,
an increase of about 12%
compared with the pre-
vious year.
To keep pace with re-
fined sugar needs in Aus-
tralia, we are pushing ahead
with the programme of
development and expansion
at our refineries.
Capital expenditure on
our refineries has been at
the rate of over £1 million
per annum for the last two
years, and this rate of ex-
penditure is expected to con-
tinue for several more years.
BULK RAW SUGAR STORE.
RETRACTABLE CONVEYOR.
LOADING
sa SPOUT.
BULK RAW SUGAR.
BUCKET
ELEVATOR.
CFRONT END LOADER.
PORTABLE CONVEYOR.
OPERATOR &
CONTROL PANEL.
SHIP
This diagram illustrates the method of loading raw sugar in bulk at the C.S.R.
Co.’s Harwood Mill in the Clarence River, North New South Wales. Front-end loaders
tip raw sugar from a bulk store at the mill,on to a series of rubber conveyor belts which
drop the raw sugar directly into thd hold of the ship.
Sales of
building materials
Sales of building materials
during the last six months
were at a record level, about
20% higher than during
the preceding period.
Cane - ite Acousti - Tiles
sales have risen sharply and
an important addition has
been made to our range of
products in Ceil - Sound
Plaster Acoustic Tiles.
Flush - jointed Gyprock
has been widely demon-
strated to the building
trade, both in New South
Wales and Queensland, with
good results.
There were no increases
in the selling prices of any
of our building materials
during the last six months
while reductions were
made in the prices of
Gyprock Wallboard and
C.S.R. Vinylflex Floor
Tiles.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty.
Ltd. (owned by the C.S.R.
Company and The Distillers
Co. Ltd. of England), ap-
plied last year for tariff
protection on cellulose ace-
tate flake, one of its import-
ant products. Relative costs
in Australia and in the
United Kingdom have
altered greatly since we em-
barked on this project and
our costs, at present rates of
production, are considerably
greater than in the United
Kingdom.
The Board recommended
that no assistance be given
to our manufacture on eco-
nomic grounds, but if the
Government considered the
industry should be helped
for other reasons, then
assistance should be in the
form of a bounty of 10id.
per lb. The Government
has announced that no
assistance is to be given.
Courtaulds (Australia)
Ltd., who spin our flake into
acetate rayon yarn, applied
for assistance at the same
time, and, in their case, the
Tariff Board recommended
a small bounty on yarn of
6d. per lb., sufficient only
to offset the higher Austra-
lian costs of raw materials
excluding flake. But such
assistance does not allow
Courtaulds to get a reason-
able share of the Australian
market.
These announcements are
most discouraging to the
companies trying to estab-
lish the two basic stages of
an Australian acetate rayon
industry, and particularly
discouraging to C.S.R.
Chemicals. The cellulose
acetate section of the
Rhodes factory is struggling
hard; the plant is as
modern and as efficient
technically as any in the
world and is producing
material of excellent quality,
but is handicapped by the
current low demand and
the high cost level in Aus-
tralia. We are reviewing
the likely future situation of
this manufacture.
Owing to the growing de-
mand for lacquer solvents,
the capacity of this section
of the Lane Cove plant is
being increased and expan-
sion of the boiler station is
also in progress. At the
Rhodes factory a plant for
the production of polysty-
rene, a plastic moulding
compound, is in course of
erection and should be in
production by the end of
the year.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Canberra Christmas Illus-
trated, by D. B. O’Connor and Jones
(1925), and Love, Life and Laughter,
by D. B. O’Connor (1932).—5956.
To buy copy of A Rationalist
Encyclopedia by Joseph McCabe-
-5954.
Journalist, wife and small child,
urgently require small furnished flat or
cottage anywhere Sydney, city or
suburbs.—5955.
Young Hong Kong student (17)
would like to correspond with young
Bulletin readers interested in stamp-
collecting, swimming, drawing and
collecting of photographs of views.
(Reply direct to Richard F. Leung,
First Floor, 11 Bonham-road, Hong
Kong.)
Information Sought
Some information on Carbine’s
(1890) Melbourne Cup win ?
Placegetters were: D. S. WaJlace’s
bay horse Carbine, by Musket (imp.)-
Mersey, syrs., 10.5, ridden by R.
Ramage, 1; Highborn, 6.8 (J. Egan),
2; Correze, 7.3 (H. Moran), 3. There
were 36 other runners. Carbine was
4-to-l favorite, Highborn 66 to 1,
Correze 50’s. Won by 2\ lengths,
with halt a length between 2nd and
3rd. Time 3.28). Value of stake to
winner, £10,230, including the £l5O
trophy.
• * ♦ »
Is it possible to obtain replacements
of World War I medals that have
been lost, and what procedure is
necessary ? Original issue was made
in England, and I am still in posses-
sion of the “Issuing Authority.’’
It is not clear whether you served
with the A.I.F. or the R.A.N. or
whether you were a member of the
British Forces. If you served with the
British Army or the Royal Navy you
should apply to the United Kingdom
Services Liaison Staff, Victoria Bar-
racks, Melbourne, S.C.I, who will
forward your application to the
appropriate United Kingdom authori-
ties. Your application should include
details of your service. If you were
a member of the A.I.F. you should
forward an application accompanied
by a statutory declaration as to the
circumstances in which the original
medal was lost and the steps taken
to effect recovery, to the Array Medals
Section, Central Army Records Office,
Albert Park Barracks, Melbourne,
5.C.3. A new medal will not be
issued except on prepayment, and,
unless there is conclusive proof of the
destruction or permanent loss of the
medal, until a period of two months
has elapsed after the date upon which
the loss occurred. A similar procedure
applies in the case of former members
of the R.A.N. except that applications
should be forwarded to the Secretary,
Department of the Navy, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne, S.C.I.
* * * *
(1) Were Ross and Keith Smith the
first to attempt to fly from England to
Australia? (2) A few particulars of
Ross and Keith Smith’s flight? (i)
On what date did they reach Singa-
pore? ( 4 ) Where was Ross Smith
killed ?
(1) No. The first attempt was made
by Capt. G. C. Matthews and Sgt.
T. Kay in a Sopwith-Wallaby setting
out on Oct. 21, 1919. Delayed by bad
weather in Germany, they eventually
abandoned the flight at Bali in the
Dutch East Indies. (2) Capt. Ross
Smith and Lieut. Keith Smith (both
later knighted), with two engineers,
J. M. Bennett and W. H. Shiers, left
Hounslow (England) in a Vickers-
Vimy biplane on Nov. 12, 1919, and
reached Darwin on Dec. 10, 28 days
later; actual flying time, 124 hours.
They were the first to fly from Eng-
land to Australia. (A prize of £lO,OOO
had been offered by the Common-
wealth Government early in 1919 for
the first such flight made by aeroplane
or seaplane constructed entirely in the
British Empire and manned and
piloted entirely by Australians.) (3)
On Dec. 4 (incidentally, Ross Smith’s
birthday), from Singora (Malaya),
where they had almost crashed; they
landed on Singapore racecourse.
They left the fallowing day (Dec. 5)
for 'Kalidjati (Java). (4), In April,
1922, at Weybridge (England) while
testing a Vickers-Viking amphibian
plane in which he, Keith Smith and
Bennett were planning a flight round
the world. (Bennett was killed with
Ross Smith.)
* * ♦ ♦
How many millionaires has Aus-
tralia produced, and of the number
is it true that more have been pas-
toralists than city businessmen ?
Difficult to establish the exact
number of those who have, or have
left, estates valued at £1,000,000 or
more. The proportion of pastoralists
and businessmen has probably been
roughly the same (some, of course,
have had both city and country
interests). The first men to become
millionaires, however, were mainly
pastoralists—Tyson, Kidman (who,
though in his lifetime a millionaire,
did not die one), Samuel McCaughey.
Most Australian millionaires have
been public benefactors and philan-
thropists: McCaughey, who at his
death (July, 1919) had given away
more, till then, than had any other
Australian; Mrs. Eliza Hall, widow
of businessman Walter Hall (who
died in 1911), giving away in 1911
£1,000,000 as a gift to the coun-
try, to be devoted to the relief of
poverty, advancement of education
and • religion and for the general
benefit of the community; chemist
Alfred Felton (who died in 1904) —not
literally a millionaire, though the
capital fund on his estate (left for the
purchase of art treasures) has now
reached £1,000,000. No statistics
available on still-living millionaires;
actually, with the more even spread
of wealth through the community,
and the growth of public rather than
individual ownership of companies,
their numbers are restricted. (Most
recent million-valued estate, that of
financier John Wren, sworn for pro-
bate in October this year at
£1,003,947.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.E.: Glad “Bellerive” . has an
admirer; but you’re not quite in his
class....S.G.: It goes in the appre-
hensive envelope... .R.K.: Not, a
bad motoring poem; but have you
got your poetic licence? ... .F.S.C.:
If you have anything urgent to say
to the Melbourne National Theatre,
you’d better say it in prose; the verse
is howling doggerel 8.5.: 100
wraithlike W.E.E.: You ra
into a rough bit of weather there.
..G.L.F.: “The Has-Been has
been and g0ne....N.A.K.: “Pohsh
Grandmother” the nearest. Must you
rhyme “saw” with war ,‘U
PKF 1 Hardly poetry; but at least
it’s fresh... .1.C.E.: None quite up,
but there are possibilities.
Article on “Propagandist Literature
is well done but adds little to what
we’ve said ourselves... •Ri'-
“Piffle” is 0.D.N.: So jo
thought it up while shaving. Gro
a beard and think po nor
LE.M.: “The Fat” is in the hre...-
8.R.: Such a delicate little wIS P
thing it would wither if exposed t
the harsh light of day....«
has about as much form and mean
S? as a handful of chopped-up
DO.: “This is the last
Fime I shall trouble you with my
infusions.” But * it «
a Poem -. be tfae WO rst thing
we’ve done to. the
verse we writ 6 about them. _
HA.R.: “Bowled out R- •
Really, you’d better get mam d--
0.W.N.: Shorten, shorten
shorten—until . ’“f laugh
Then re-submit it.. ; -H-O- • 1 ”
and I sing, I’m a bird Mowing
A kookaburra, we ..
S.T.; Derbyshire is so far aw .
Q.R.; Bother your bunyip •;• • •
forty fathoms deep m us
whiskers.


Round Where "The Bulletin" Now Is
The Cradle of Australia
By M. H. ELLIS
HE BULLETIN office
[ stands on a historic site
V, in the very heart of the
region in which Aus-
tralia was founded, and in
which the white race established
itself in the first perilous genera-
tion of civilisation in this con-
tinent. The sloping hills, east
and west of it, form the cradle
of the Australian race.
The site first appears in
picture and story in Hunter’s
drawing of August 20, 1788,
marked by the two clearings
east and west of the Tank
Stream, which stream was the
justification for placing Sydney
where it is.
The stream trickled down the
hill from Hyde Park, where the
War Memorial now stands,
under the T. and G. building,
under the present G.P.0., under
the present buildings in Hunter-
street, and finally down about
300 ft. from the present eastern
frontage of George-street,
where The Bulletin office
stands. Then it widened into
the head, of a broadening
estuary about 60 ft. or 70ft.
north of where Hamilton-street
debouches into Bridge-street.
There, at the first place south
of the Sydney Cove (known of
old to the blacks as Warrang),
where there was an easy
crossing, the earliest bridge in
Australasia was built, to enable
the vice-regal quarter on the
east to make easy contact with
the Marines and convict quarter
on the western hill.
Thus, down the eastern hill
and up the western ran one of
the first two tracks made in this
continent by civilised man, the
other being that which wound
among the trees a little way
back from the western side of
the Cove.
It was on the southern side
of this track on the eastern hill
that the first building not a
marquee or a tent was put up
(somewhere round the region
where the Queen planted a tree
in Macquarie-place early this
year)—a prefabricated cottage
for Governor Phillip ; put to-
gether quickly so that he could
occupy it on February 19,
1788.
Before the year was out there
were several rickety buildings
standing, and at two ends of
the track which led across the
bridge two others were in pro-
cess of erection on August 20,
1788. One, its front standing out
a little beyond and across the
site of the present Union House,
was the Lieutenant-Governor’s
house.
+ +
At the other end, on the
eastern hill, against the back-
ground of tall timber which
crowned the eastern heights and
had not been cleared to the Tank
Stream itself, the new Govern-
ment House was being erected
directly across what is now
the corner of Bridge-street and
Phillip-street. Its south-eastern
end was somewhere on or east
of the tramlines. Its gardens
ran right down to the Cove
(Circular Quay), which in those
days washed a rather rocky
shore halfway through the
Customs House site.
The waters on the southern
head of Sydney Cove generally
ran much further inward than
now. Where Watson’s Hotel
‘stands today, the northern end
of the Government wharf stood
for many a year. The first flag-
staff seems to have been set-up
on a site just out from the build-
ing of Goldsbrough Mort and
just north of Macquarie-place.
Afterwards the Government
dry-store stood there. Over
part of the actual Cove estuary
off Pitt-street Bulletin-place
today—this paper itself lived for
a time.
Before very long the first
residences other than Govern-
ment House were built on the
southern side of the track across
the bridge—dwellings for the
Governor’s secretary, the Judge
Advocate, the Chaplain and the
Surveyor-General. They were
set far back from the present
northern alignment of the street
where the Agricultural, Educa-
tion and Lands offices now
stand. They formed the first
street of houses in Australia, the
busy centre of administration.
Across the bridge everything
was convict or military. There
lived the Commandant and
Lieutenant - Governor, Major
Ross, and on the space just north
of his dwelling (now Grosvenor-
street) were the first parade-
ground, a guard-house and some
military-stores.
Phillip had planned—with the
help of the sanctimonious
astronomer Lieutenant Dawes —
a grandiose street 200 ft. wide
running up the hill past where
the Wentworth Hotel now
stands to a site for a Govern-
ment House. This was to be on
the block which runs from
Petty’s old hotel to Margaret-
street, with am£le grounds
surrounding it. The dream was
never realised.
Bridge-street was planned as
a narrow street, about half its
present width, running on the
northern side of the modern
thoroughfare. About 220 ft. on
the south of the point where its
western end faced the Com-
mandant’s house three .leases
were granted in December,
1791, by Phillip. They ' were
each of 100 ft. frontage and
200 ft. depth, so that their backs
were about 100 ft. from the
Tank Stream, the town water-
supply.
The one nearest Bridge-street
was John Macarthur’s. It ran
roughly from Bond-street to
Robin Hood Lane. This, then,
can be reckoned as the first spot
in Australia which held a home
in the true sense of the word,
even though the house on it
was only a rude wattle-and-
daub hut with a cabbage-tree
thatch. (By “home” one means
a house inhabited by a married
family, with a child ; a normal
domestic habitat.)
When she first came to the
colony in June, 1790, Mrs.
Macarthur was, in fact, the
whole of respectable female
society; outside Parson Johnson’s
wife; the only lady on the
Government House list, one
who, when she was asked to
dinner, was accorded special
privilege. Ordinary mortals,
when asked there by means of
the customary card written by
the Governor’s secretary and
delivered by orderly, put a roll
of bread (if they had one) into
the pockets of their tail-coats
and produced it at table ; but
Mrs. Macarthur, who probably
had no pockets—though she had
the only piano in the Austra-
lasian antipodes—walked bread-
less past the present Bulletin
site, since her card always con-
tained, in the writing of his
Excellency himself, a polite
reminder that there was “always
a roll for Mrs. Macarthur.”
On the south of the Mac-
arthur dwelling, along the
George-street line, were two
other leases in Phillip’s day—
those of Thomas Laycock, the
quartermaster, and Captain
Paterson. It was almost in front
of the present Bulletin site
that in July, 1801, Captain
Abbott was strolling when he
was approached by Lieutenant
Marshall, R.N., who hit him “a
hell of a lick” with a clothes-
prop, thus starting off a chain
of quarrels, which ended in
John Macarthur shooting
Colonel Paterson in the shoulder
and being sent to England for
trial—the fateful visit there
during which he convinced the
British Government of the
possibilities of the wool industry
in Australia.
Laycock was the quarter-
master who was presently
cashiered for associating on
friendly domestic terms with a
former convict. His son lived
with him later, a lieutenant in
the New South Wales Corps.
Laycock presumably had his
dwelling on the site where it was
so that he could keep watch, as
quartermaster, over the tanks
which were formed south-east
of the rear of his land to preserve
the town water-supply.
Paterson, whose block was
south of Laycock’s, near Hunter-
street, had explored the Hotten-
tot country in Africa; his
friendship with the Dutchman
Colonel Gordon, an explorer
companion, was probably
responsible for the first Merino
sheep being brought to Aus-
tralia by Captain Waterhouse in
1797. He also had taken the
first giraffe-skin to England, and
he was Australia’s first Fellow
of the Royal Society.
+ -I-
Opposite these three officers’
dwellings, on the slope of the
western hill between the present
Jamison-street and Margaret-
street —they are both compara-
tively new streets, dating respec-
tively from the 1830’s and
1840’s —stood the first barracks,
wjth stores between them and
the Commandant’s house. The
wide and irregular space which
formed the old Parade above
the present junction of George-
street and Grosvenor-street
looked across the bridge to the
Mainguard built in Governor
King’s day, opposite Govern-
ment House gates about 500yds.
away.
This was the hub of Sydney
from the earliest times; the
place all men used as a forum.
Life flowed up and down
Bridge-street between Church-
street and the Governor’s house,
though the convict life, or most
of it, was further north on The
Rocks, west of the commercial
section, of which the main
artery was the part of High-
street now known as George-
street North.
Here nearly all the mercan-
tile retail-business presently
began to be done. Here were
set the merchants’ stores, from
the bridge on each side of the
estuary of the Tank Stream.
Here the first warehouses were
put up—those of' Underwood
and Nichols on the west side,
and, later, of Robert Campbell,
who occupied a site originally
held by Captain Waterhouse.
Waterhouse’s descendants still
flourish in Sydney. Underwood
built the first Australian ship,
on the side of the estuary near
where Gibbs Bright’s building
in Pitt-street stands today. On
the eastern side of the estuary,
in what is now Macquarie-place,
Simeon Lord, Andrew Thomp-
son and the romantic Reibys
began to put up their go-downs
within the first 15 years.
Almost next-door to and north
of the site of The Bulletin in
George-street some land was, in
Governor King’s time, leased to
Garnham Blaxcell, Macarthur’s
factotum, but he was never
allowed to build on it. Governor
Bligh saw to that, and, any-
way, who would have wanted
to build on it after the first
decade or so of history? It stood
opposite a property which in
the late 1790’s belonged to
Captain Kent, R.N., who
planted a garden of luscious
fruits and built himself the best
mansion in the colony.
When Governor King arrived
he bought this palace and
turned it into an orphanage. The
building itself was roughly on
part of the site of No. 4 Bridge-
street or thereabouts, a two-
story red-brick building, which
in the decade of King and Bligh
served for all sorts of purposes.
There being no church, it was
used as a church on Sundays,
It served also as a court-house.
And otherwise it was full of
orphans who were in the orphan-
age because, if they had been
allowed to live out of it, the
time was foreseeable when they
might take Sydney to bits and
carry it away; scarcely any of
them knowing their own
fathers, nor —if their mothers
were quick in the off-take—
knowing their mothers, either.
The young lady orphans were
heavy metal for the Reverend
Mr. Marsden to sharpen his
piety on on Sundays. They pro-
vided diversion for such of their
pastors and masters who felt
that way inclined on weekdays,
as\the shocked Dr. Harris testi-
fied. And when they were
bored in the evening they slid
over the high wall which was
intended to keep them in and
tiptoed across the bridge to
drink Bengal with Mr. Simeon
Lord —that is, if the Reverend
Mr. Marsden can be accepted
as a reliable recorder.
What sights and scenes that
bit of Bridge-street witnessed
during its first 20 years!
Phillip, lame and lopsided, walk-
ing with a rolling gait; old
Hunter, the navigator, in his
rusty naval-blue; Governor
King, in the colony’s first
carriage; Bligh, setting out,
corpulent, stiff in his uniform,
riding sometimes in a regal
carriage, or in a very small
sulky, perhaps, if he were not
going far—with blunderbusses
poking out of the side and the
hood tied down “with brails.”
Or he might be seen, very early
in the morning, navigating an
astonished horse through what
was known as the new “military
district” (where the sergeant-
majors lived on the western side
of the stream behind Mac-
arthur’s and Paterson’s old
leases), and pulling up before
gates to tell the owners of dwel-
lings that they must be pulled
down, ordering young soldiers to
come to Government House to
be roared at, calling old ones
“tremendous beggars” his
favorite expression.
It was in Bridge-street that
Bligh took Mrs. Putland to
church on the famous September
day in 1807, when his relation-
ships with the New South Wales
Corps began to break down
finally. Mrs. P. attended service
at the Orphan House clad
possibly in her latest fashion-
able importation, which was so
diaphanous that she had to
wear trousers under it for the
sake of decency, making the
soldiery laugh.
It was at one end of Bridge-
street that the New South Wales
Corps held its mess-dinner on
the Sunday before the Rum
Rebellion, It was in Bridge-
street that Judge Advocate
Richard Atkins peeped out of
Government House in the
gloaming of January 26, 1808,
attracted by the sound of fife
and drum, and saw the Rum
Corps forming-up a quarter of
a mile away, with the guns on
the Parade (it was said) swivelled
towards Government House,
though how they-were swivelled
it is difficult to know, since the
white-ants had been dining off
their carriages for years.
Down Bridge-street from the
Parade the Rum Corps marched
in the gloaming that evening,
John Macarthur and George
Suttor running beside glaring
at each other ; and it was at the
street’s head that little Mrs.
Putland met them at the gate of
Government House —armed, so
legend says, with a parasol—
and gave them the rough-end of
her tongue, which was very
rough indeed. Sometimes,
according to the testimony of
one learned judge, it was so
much so in intercourse with her
“papa” that she would aban-
don it as a weapon and throw
plates at him instead.
+ +
Also down Bridge-street, back
to their own ground, came the
Corps, after their orderly revo-
lution, to which they had gone
playing “The British Grena-
diers,” but from which they
returned playing “Britons
Weep”— day “The
Silly Old Man” —having dragged
Bligh, covered in feathers and
dust, from behind, or under, a
bed in an attic, the window of
which looked out on the first
newspaper-office in the con-
tinent.
When the Lower Parade
across the street from the pre-
sent Bulletin’s block was not
in use in those early days for
parades or revolutions, it was
the town-market, in which
strange things were sold —even,
on occasion, it was said, wives.
In the year 1800-1 Bridge-
street saw a new development:
at the corner of Bridge-street,
next to Garnham Blaxcell’s
land, and apparently embracing
that part of the country which
is bounded on one side by the
modern street and on the other
by the lane-area where The
Bulletin’s papers are dis-
patched, Governor King estab-
lished a lumber-yard for the
carpenters.
By the time Bligh came in
1806 this, like everything else,
was in a state of dilapidation, its
fences half-down and its black-
smith’s-shop and shed in want
of repair, plastering, new doors
and windows and tiling.
All these things were done
when Macquarie arrived, and
the yard was extended seemingly
all the way over the lane along
The Bulletin’s northern wall,
where it adjoined the land held
by Thomas Laycock. It became
the factory-hub of all the great
development of the Macquarie
era, a very beehive of more-or-
less busy workmen.
Here all the work which called
for artificers’ skill was put to-
gether, ‘assembled ; here all the
ironwork for the public build-
ings was made, the carpentry
done. Greenway recorded that
it was necessary for him to be
there “many times a day.” He
seems to have regretted it.
There were others who
regretted it even more. Within
its high walls—built not to keep
the wicked in but to prevent
them handing tools or material
over to friends waiting outside
—were, in Macquarie’s day, the
triangles.
Major Druitt, engineer to the
48th Regiment, gave evidence
before Commissioner Bigge in
October, 1819, that “the punish-
ments take place in the Lumber
Yard in the presence of all the
Government laborers. From 20
to 50 lashes is the ordinary
punishment. A different sort of
cat is used for small offences
(Continued on page 27)


(/ecxwm*
0 •
\
SS
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE s
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KEVIN JAMES OOMERFORD late of
212 Pennant Hills Road, Thomleigh.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN PRANCES
OOMERFORD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3058 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 22nd March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN
& CO., Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS. Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN GRIFFITHS late
of 547 Dowling Street Moore Park. —
TAKE NOTICE that IRENE MARY
GRIFFITHS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2719 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 2’2nd March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. A. R. BALD-
WIN & CO., Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Missing Friend
FOLSTER
Anyone knowing the whereabouts
of ATHOL FREDERICK FOLSTER,
son of Heinrich Folster, believed to
have come to Australia about 1926
please contact the undersigned to his
great advantage.
DIBBS CROWTHER & OSBORNE
Solicitors,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Rosehill’s £1250 Festival Han-
dicap (seven furlongs) on Satur-
day attracted several Villiers can-
didates. Carioca’s third pleased
the stable and impressed others,
and he retains his place on the
first line of favoritism for both
the Villiers and the Summer
Cup, though Blond Val (Festival
winner) is sharing the position in
the mile and Master Proven is
similarly placed in the Cup.
Despite a modest display at
Rosehill, compared with his
brilliant prior win at Randwick,
Wakatu is expected to be hard to
beat over the Villiers mile.
Grand Vite, Silver Phantom and
Kev Mar are others well fancied.
Birdwood, winner of the Oak-
leigh Plate and the V.R.C. New-
market last autumn, is reaching
top form once again, judging by
his close second to Blond Val.
Birdwood had the Festival Han-
dicap won everywhere except in
the final quarter-furlong; pos-
sibly his new jockey, T. Mul-
lane, was a bit impetuous in tak-
ing him to the lead before enter-
ing the straight. It was a fine
effort, however, and, as Bird-
wood’s best form has been shown
at six furlongs, he could be a real
Carrington Stakes prospect (to
be run on Tuesday, December
28).
• • • •
Apple Bay, winner at his only
two race-starts, latest being in
the First Parramatta Stakes at
Rosehill, is also expected to be
set for the Carrington. Trained
by T. J. Smith at Randwick,
Apple Bay is one of successful
Newtown Wonders. Another of
the clan, New Slipper, won the
opening Rosehill event, the
Maiden Two-year-old for fillies.
She also is trained by Smith.
New Slipper’s dam, Tiny Slipper,
is by Brueghel (It.) from Veiled
Witch by Veilmond.
The colt by Trinity (imp.)
from For Valor by Heroic failed
to reach the breeder’s reserve at
the Randwick yearling auction
last Easter and is raced by his
breeder, R. M. Bowcock. Trained
at Randwick by Fred Cush, Fair
Trinity has started only twice,
for a close second to Baystone at
Warwick Farm, and an easy win
in Saturday’s Rosehill Maiden
Two-year-old for colts and geld-
ings. The colt comes from
a line of winners, including Even
Flow, Triple Flow, Purple Heart
and Survivor; his granddam.
Real One, was a sister to
Amounis.
When acceptances were de-
clared for Saturday’s Rosehill
Handicap Royal Forest was left
at the top of the list with Bst.,
but under A.J.C. rules his weight
automatically advanced to 8.12.
That virtually made the race a
glorified Welter, with only 111 b.
between the topweight and the
two at bottom of the scale. It’s
a debatable point whether the
forcing of weights in ordinary
handicaps to 8.12 at acceptance-
hour is a wise idea. Originally
8.7 had been set as the weight to
be carried in similar circum-
stances, and that seemed quite
enough. There appears to be no
valid reason for bumping it up
the extra 51b.
Royal Forest won the Rose-
hill Handicap well with his 8.12
—l7lb. above his Summer Cup
weight. Naturally he has firmed
for the longer race. The Delville
Wood (imp.) horse is raced by
Norman Wheeler, director-man-
ager of Kia-Ora stud (Scone,
N.S.W.), and is trained at Rand-
wick by Maurice McCarten. It
was N. Sellwood’s first success
since being injured at Caulfield
in October. Castillo (second)
indicated an early return to the
winning-list.
• • • •
Though it doesn’t always fol-
low that the quickest worker
of the dawn session will prove
the fastest horse on race-
afternoon, at Rosehill on Satur-
day two swallow-catchers of the
preceding week won races, one
neglected in betting, but the
other confidently backed by the
stable. Though a moderate in
racing. Valiant Archer is a fast
track-galloper, but he had let
the stable down too often, and
so went out to win the Second
Parramatta Stakes at 33’s, with
40’s on offer in places. The
well-backed winner was
country performer Tacana, who
had done a fast trial at Rose-
bery with Fire Dust (well
fancied for both the Villiers and
the Summer Cup). Tacana is
New Zealand-bred, being by
Massowa (imp.) from Monto-
sorrie by Silver-Stick, a son of
Beau Pere (imp.). The mare is
closely related to Gladynev,
who won 10 races and was
reckoned “thrown in” for the
Caulfield Cup of 1940 with the
limit (6.7), but was downed by
another New Zealander, Beau-
livre. Paracombe, another fast
galloper of the early morning at
Randwick last week, was backed
to favoritism for his race, but
failed to do the right thing. He
“Strike me, Joe —how long YOU bin workin?”
should be followed at next start,
as his run was promising.
The grey four-year-old Persia
gelding Persian Link continues
to do well in Brisbane, adding
another win to his record when
he started favorite at 9 to 4 and
easily beat opponents in the
Q.T.C. Summer Handicap (U
mile) in the fast time of 2.2%.
Persian Link, though owned in
Sydney, has been in Brisbane
for some time and is a member
of H. F- Best’s team.
Lady Contrast, a Nuffield
mare from Clash of Colour
(imp.) by Prince Galahad, is
dam Of Q.T.C. December
Nursery winner. Pipe Band, by
Kerry Piper (imp.). Pipe Band
was a surprise winner in an
open event.
Dasnique, winner of the
Lonergan Stakes at the Bris-
bane fixture, is by Dashford
from Technique by Curialis
(imp.). Trainer H. F. Best, act-
ing for a Queensland grazier,
D. Watts, bought the colt for
1600gns. last Friday. It was
Dasnique’s second successive
win, and he covered the five
furlongs at Eagle Farm in
60|sec. —a smart display of
galloping.
* ♦ ♦
Ken Rosewall won the Vic-
torian singles title at Kooyong
on Saturday, beating American
Vic Seixas 6-1, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5. In
a good game, fast and spectacu-
lar, Rosewall won all-round,
from the baseline or at Seixas’s
own game of net-rushing. Rose-
wall has now beaten Seixas in
seven of the eight games they’ve
played, his most redoubtable
victory that in the final round of
last year’s Davis Cup.
The two semi-finals had been
disappointing affairs. Hoad,
well below form, went down in
straight sets to Seixas, and Rose-
wall had a similar, but even
easier, win over Hdrtwig; Hart-
wig had won at their three
previous encounters.
Who’s going to play what for
Australia in the Davis Cup is
still open. It’s hard to imagine
Hoad left out of the singles,
despite his current bad run ; and
Rosewall will probably be pre-
ferred to Hartwig. And it’s
anyone’s guess who’ll be the
doubles-pair.
* * «
Making the advance squeals
sound silly, the Australian Test-
selectors proved right in sticking
to “past experience and known
reliability” (B. 24/11/’54). The
first Test was won by a thumping
margin, an innings and 164 runs
(Aust., 8-601, closed; England,
190 and 257). At the same time
it’s hardly likely the remaining
Tests will be such “pushovers,”
England suffered under three
tremendous handicaps, two of
them self-inflicted: the unvaried
attack of fast-bowlers only, the
lowered morale from the fizzling
of Hutton’s gamble in sending-in
Australia, and the only
unwilled one —the loss of an
effective Denis Compton.
• • • •
England maintained its reputa-
tion of being a “two-man” team.
First innings it was just about
only Bailey and Cowdrey;
second innings Edrich and May,
though in this case Tyson and
Bailey also made handy
contributions.
Good bowling by Lindwall
anjd Miller, still tough customers
with the new ball, produced the
sensational first-innings English
collapse of 4-25. The two first
full days of leather-chasing under
the hot Brisbane sun, even with a
day’s break in between, wouldn’t
have helped the English batsmen
to sight ’em,
Bailey’s “Churchill” fighting-
spirit is well exemplified in his
greeting to young Cowdrey on
reaching the wicket (score, 4-25):
“We’re going to stay a long time
together, you know.” And so
they did, Bailey the longer,
Australia may have had its
share of luck, but it had more
than that —a better all-round
bowling array (though the four
Englishmen plugged away man-
fully), superior batsmanship
(with a longer batting-list, just
about all of them capable of
making runs) and, a few English-
men as the exceptions, much
safer and more alert fieldsmen.
• • • •
Compton’s grittiness was here
remarked on recently; but appar-
ently it borders on the foolhardy.
He batted in Brisbane with the
risk that a blow to his injured
left-hand might knock him right
out of the game. Despite which,
his going-in in England’s first-
innings could be justified,
perhaps, in that a few minutes
gained then might conceivably
be just that little extra time
needed to save the match ; there
was no earthly sense in his bat-
ting the second time, with the
final outcome foreseeable (and
unavoidable) long befbrehand.
♦ • *
“C.A.A.”: Torquay, near
Geelong (Vic,), has been chosen
by the Surf Life Saving Clubs’
Association as the venue for the
world surf carnival in 1956. The
carnival will be held after the
Olympic Games, and is expected
to attract entries from South
Africa, Ceylon, Honolulu, New
Zealand, England and India, in
addition to the local teams.
♦ ♦ ♦
“M.S.”; Westralia’s National
Rifle Association’s special yearly
trophy for the State’s winner of
the Queen’s Medal elimination
shoot has been named after
Private P. E. Gratwick, who
won the V.C. in the Western
Desert in 1942. This year’s
winner was Sgt. P. F. Jeffery;
Captain Piper, second; Sgt.
Beardman, last year’s winner,
third.


and serious ones.” One was
whipcord, the other lob-line,
which it took a very well-tanned
back to withstand.
The lumber-yard’s , works
remain in many an ancient
Sydney building, and perhaps in
a little furniture surviving in
Government departments.. Its
denizens were versatile —they
even made bats and sets of
wickets for Governor Macquarie
to give to his little son when he
sent him to school at Mac-
quarie Fields. But the yard has
been gone for well over a
century, since houses and shops
grew up thickly all over the area
in the ’thirties. It lingered on
until 1834 —when Bridge-street
was widened —despite the pro-
tests of the press and public
against the “smoke demon”
haunting its numerous black-
smiths’ shops which “constantly
emitted” large volumes of black
murk and cinders “quite out
of keeping within the centre of
a fine city.” It was sold in 11
allotments, seven facing Bridge-
street and four, 20ft. each,
George-street—and the lane at
the north side of The Bulletin
building was then formed. The
“smoke demon” then moved
next door till World War 11,
when he emerged from hiding in
the Tank Stream and haunted
The Bulletin’s diesel engine,
to the intense delight of the
whole neighborhood.
In the ’forties the shops
on the block in which this office
stands included C. M. Penny’s
medical dispensary; Deacon,
tailor and mercer; a wholesale
confectioner ; Davy, the grocer ;
Bennett, the boot- and shoe-
maker ; then the mews-entrance,
which became Malcolm-lane;
next, Adnuih, the coppersmith,
and Jennings, the cutler.
Opposite Bond-street was the
old Bank of Australia, which
looks like a Greenway building.
In the middle 1820’s, when it
was going up, the reporter of the
“Sydney Gazette” used to
notice, at seven-o’clock in the
morning, a tortured and irascible
figure, gouty and feverish,
urging on the workmen to
greater efforts. John Macarthur,
chairman of the new institution,
believed in seeing things done
himself.
In the ’forties of last century
Bridge-street and the block of
George - street where The
Bulletin stands were fine, wide
thoroughfares, the resort of
carriages, a scene always bright
with uniforms and gleaming
harness and fashionable dresses
on their way to Government
House or to the military centres
beyond the New Parade (Wyn-
yard-square).
Passers - by would have
noticed the circulating-library
which graced the spot on which
Qantas has its offices in Bridge-
street, a few feet from the win-
dow behind which this is being
written. Sometimes there was
to be seen in its doorway its
owner, much like John Bull of
the traditional picture, but twice
as tall and wide, a giant of a
man.
It is fitting that a modern
institution whose lines of travel
have gradually reached out to
the uttermost ends of Australia
and the world should be his
successor. Perhaps Qantas is
his corporate ghost. His name
was George William Evans;
possibly the greatest of the very
early Australian explorers, the
man who found the Bathurst
Plains and the Lachlan, who
guided Oxley and found the
Castlereagh, who first reached
Sydney overland through the
Illawarra.
The Bulletin certainly lives
in pioneer - explorer country.
Evans; Macarthur and young
Laycock (with four others,
a member of the party to
cross Tasmania in 1807); Pater-
son, after whom the Paterson
River is named, and who named
the Grose, next-door again;
Tench, who was the first man
(with Dawes) to see the southern
Nepean and the Cowpastures
adjacent in their earliest days.
Across the creek, just east of
where Aarons Hotel now stands
in Gresham-street, lived Charles
Grimes, the Surveyor-General.
It was in his house that a sort
of Falstaff’s-guard of so-called
constables, armed with staves
and cutlasses, arrested John
Macarthur in December, 1807
(almost, 146 years to the week
before this was printed), and
so lit the fuse for the rebellion
against Bligh.
Bligh’s ghost itself may still
walk in Bridge-street and
George-street —Bligh, solemnly
driven down Bridge-street—O
ignominy!—by Captain Abbott
in “a one-horse chaise,” while
his eloquent daughter ran cry-
ing in his wake. They must
have taken him on straight past
the present Bulletin office to
the subalterns’-barrack, in which
they immured him under what
he considered brutal and
inhuman conditions.
He even had to make his
daughter’s bed. Historians
would give almost as much to
have seen Bligh making a bed as
to have seen him retrieved from
under one.
SHANGHAI
IN THE SPRILING
BY MABEL WALN SMITH
CHINA is a country where
pets hold a peculiar
place, A conservative
old gentleman of the
Confucian school, for instance,
would no more take a dog out
walking than be caught with a
pig on a leash. But birds and
fish —they are the pampered
creatures. * Consider my cook-
boy and his pet goldfish.
It was a Saturday afternoon
in Shanghai, in spring. My hus-
band was in his study working
out his income-tax and I was at
my desk in the living-room
carefully juggling our next
week’s dinner-menus with an
eye to building up my new-hat
fund. Mimi, my white Persian
cat, had squeezed in between
me and the back of my chair
and was softly “making dough”
on my back. Wash-amah was
out in her best silk trousers
collecting gossip-. And Liu, our
cook-boy, sat in the kitchen be-
side his pet goldfish, Li Tai-po,
named after China’s best-loved
poet.
Liu always said that to make
a friend of a pet you must spend
plenty of time with him; and
that an objective was always
needed when you recited poetry.
I had seen, by the way he kept
glancing dreamily out the win-
dow at the heavenly blue sky
when he served lunch, that this
was the afternoon he intended
to combine these two ideas ;■ so,
while he washed the dishes, I
browsed through an old Chinese
history-book.
During the middle of the
Tang Dynasty—that remarkable
high-noon of Chinese culture
which lasted from a.d. 619 to
a.d. 907 —lived Li Tai-po, the
vagabond poet whose patron
was Ming Huang, the Illustrious
Emperor. From the wild moun-
tains of the west this poet had
been brought down to serve at
the Imperial court. So I had
read. Now, nibbling my pen,
the story seemed pertinent to the
hour.
Li Tai-po was born in the
hamlet of Green Lotus, to a
mother who dreamt she had
conceived her baby under
Venus, the Metal Star; there-
fore she called him Tai-po,
“Great # Whiteness.” He de-
veloped into a brilliant boy at
10, reciting the Classics aloud
and understanding the Book of
the Hundred Sages. But he was
also strong in body and impetu-
ous by nature. In the excite-
ment of sword-play one morn-
ing he killed several people, and
was obliged to flee to the
mountains of Szechuan.
Here he crawled into the cave
of a scholar and recluse who
understood him, and
the two lived in
brilliant seclusion,
reading, writing, dis-
cussing literature in
their mountain fast-
ness, soaking-in the
fabulous scenery
which so influenced
the poet’s future life
and work. Some-
times they went on
pilgrimages to
monasteries, along
canals, up peaks,
over waterfalls
studying the
beauties of people
and country. They
kept strange birds as
pets, training them
to talk and feed
from their hands.
Reports of this
colorful hermitage
brought the local
magistrate to call.
And the now fully
developed poet was
taken away to the capital city,
to join that talented group of
painters, musicians, writers,
singers, dancers and diplomats
with whom the Illustrious
Emperor liked to surround
himself.
China’s capital city was the
most renowned on earth in those
far-off Tang days, the Wonder of
the Age, and other countries sent
representatives to Ming Huang’s
court to study the excellent
government. By day Syrians,
Arabs, Persians, Tartars,
Tibetans, Koreans, Japanese and
Tonkinese rubbed shoulders with
each other in the broad, tree-lined
avenues thronged by gallants on
horseback and mandarins in
carts drawn by black oxen. By
night there was feasting, singing,
dancing to jewelled lutes under-
neath the red-lacquered ceilings
of the palace with one-thousand
rooms, or strolls along the roads
to drink fragrant green-tea and
potent quince-wine at the village
taverns.
Besides the main castle with its
ninefold gates, there were thirty-
six imperial palaces with towers
of gold, while the wealthy villas
of noblemen vied with each other
in splendor. The Imperial City
lay within the capital city itself.
It was entered by the Red-bird
Gate, and favored indeed were
those within—the famed officials,
eunuchs and the ladies of the
Imperial Household dressed in
royal-yellow, princess-purple, the
red satin of youth, the green
brocade of adventure. A
hundred - thousand peasants
worked at silk-looms outside the
city to supply the needs of the
courtiers ...
There was a final creaking
from my kitchen as Liu, having
put away the dishes, settled into
his bamboo chair. He began
talking to his goldfish in that
smooth-flowing Mandarin so
delightful to follow, and I heard
him say;'
“Little one, Li Tai-po, for
whom you are named, was indeed
a great man, sympathetic to all,
understanding of all. The poet
in him made him realise what
separation means to any woman,
and even when he slipped away
in the night leaving stranded on
a mountain-top a wife whom he
felt called upon to abandon, he
left behind him a poem written
as though she in her loneliness
had composed it;
“A dog.
A dog barking,
And the sound of rushing water.
How dark and rich the peach-
flowers after the rain.
Every now and then, between the
trees, I see deer.
Twelve-o’clock, but I hear not
even a temple bell in the ravine.
Wild bamboos split the blue-green
of a cloudy sky.
There is no one to tell where he
has gone.
“When he lived at court,
ample of figure, jovial of eye,
and dreamy of voice, Li Tai-po
lighted any room with his
presence ...”
Li Tai-po’s popularity through-
out the land finally incited the
jealousy and hatred of the
Illustrious Emperor’s chief
eunuch, who now plotted against
him. Banished from court at long
last, the poet was joyously free
to return to his beloved
mountains.
I left ray desk in the living-
room, and tiptoed into the study.
My husband sprawled there
brokenly in his chair, head
thrown back, neck gone limp—
scorning, like any normal
husband, the simple act of
stretching out on a comfortable
bed in daylight. He was con-
tentedly snoring.
I looked in the kitchen. Liu
sat bolt upright, his book upside-
down in one hand, his eyes
closed. I had always suspected
that my cook-boy, who had
attended an old - fashioned
“intoning - and - memorising”
school, couldn’t read, although
he was quick at figures. From
his lips flowed the most beautiful
poetry. The goldfish lounged in
his bowl on a stool beside Liu,
his doting, salmon-colored body
curving lushly to the side nearest
his owner, one double chiffon
fin flung gracefully backward, his
voluptuous eyes cloudy.
As I sat down at my desk
again, Mimi’s white fur sides,
gently heaving, told me that she
slept, pink nose deep in fat paws.
Two bees gathering honey from
the long branches of the yellow
Mei Hua blossom overflowing
the tall ginger-jars murmured
about the usual three full crops
of fruit and vegetables to be
expected this year from
Shanghai’s fertile countryside.
Wash-amah, I knew, would soon
be home estimating what crop
of babies could be expected from
all those weddings we’d been
going to recently. Peace sur-
rounded me, with everyone doing
just exactly as he pleased and
harming no one.
Suddenly I saw how, by
changing next Wednesday’s menu
to read “meat” instead of
“prawns,” I could manage to
buy a small pert one with a veil
—a hat, I mean, not a roast. I
put down my pencil and gave
myself over happily to the voice
of my cook-boy pouring
harmoniously from my kitchen:
“One of Li Tai-po’s final com-
positions he called Night
Thoughts;
“In front of my bed the moon-
light is very bright.
I wonder if that can be frost on
the floor.
I lift up my head and look full at
the moon, the dazzling moon.
I drop my head and think of the
home of old days.
“Here, on that same bed in the
mountains, Li Tai-po, China’s
prince of vagabond poets from
the hamlet of Green Lotus, lay
down to rest. In the morning
he was dead ...”
The voice from my kitchen
ended, and little coaxing sounds
began, which meant that Liu was
now feeding his goldfish.
A Chinese gentleman of the
old school, through shame, may
sidestep the issue of taking your
favorite pooch for a walk, but
he allows a canine to appear in
verse —if he shows watch-dog
tendencies. And when this
gentleman happens to be your
cook-boy, he will tirelessly
prepare you the most delectable
dishes to eat, and further grace
your establishment by quoting
beautiful literature while he
endears himself to other pets.
This was Shanghai in the
spring, a time of poetry and
serenity, as I knew it.
THE WAKING DREAM
I cannot sleep, although my body cries
Tremendous sleep surrender; sounds have stirred
My mind to bright rebellion; having heard
Three sounds* 1 cannot sleep, though body cries.
Firstly, an ambulance, with jangling bell
Exulting social service; now I ride
Again to accident and suicide;
Firstly, an ambulance with jangling bell.
Secondly, a dog, pads red and howling
Enmazed in asphalt angles of the night;
A buried childhood pet barks with delight;
Secondly, a dog, pads red and howling.
Thirdly, a baby whimpering, so near me.
My sore eyes search the midnight gloom around
My bed, and on my own lips find the sound;
Thirdly, a baby whimpering, so near me.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/.*—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
(I) c CoUums
The name is
the whisk/ is
(DXjaUuroS
Scots ttlhidw
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/30.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for full
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ATOM RIVALS
Over three months ago Sir
Francis Simon, C.8.E., F.R.S.,
Professor of Thermodynamics
at Oxford, wrote critically in
London “Financial Times” of
overstringent security precautions
in the U.S.A. The particular
danger he saw in them was their
stifling effect on scientific and
technological progress, and, in
pointing up that danger, he gave
a significant estimate of the rela-
live scientific progress of the
three major Powers.
“As the expenditure connected
with atomic development has to
be counted in thousands of
millions of pounds,” he wrote,
“only countries which have a
very high technological and
scientific potential can compete,
This at present limits the field to
the United States and the
U.S.S.R., on a smaller scale
Britain, and later on perhaps
Germany. Smaller countries can
hardly hope to compete success-
fully, at least at the moment,
even though the quality of their
scientists and engineers may be
just as high as (if not sometimes
higher than) in the countries just
mentioned,
“Success will depend mainly
on the way in which the natural
assets of each country are utilised,
and the most important of these
assets is its scientific and techno-
logical manpower,
“Let us first compare the West
with the Russians. The Russians
have always had some excellent
scientists, but in the past the
West has had many more of
them. Although this inferiority
in numbers is no longer so
marked, many people, including
the author, had hoped that
Russia, as a result of enforcing
an ideological straitjacket on its
scientists, would never become
a serious competitor. This hope
seems to have been a false one.
“As far as one can judge,
Russian scientists —at least in
most subjects of direct practical
importance—seem able to get
away with lip-service to the Com-
munist ideology and can do
more-or-less as they want to.
Certainly a lot of excellent work
is now being published by
Russian scientists.
“But are they not very far
behind in their technology? It
is difficult to see why this popular
belief can still remain so wide-
spread after everything we know
about the quantity and quality of
their artillery,-ammunition, tanks
and aircraft during the war —all
produced under most difficult
conditions.
“The real position with respect
to scientific and technological
manpower does not seem to be
realised in the West. The output
of science and technology
graduates in the U.S. has been
falling more-or-less continually
from 1950 onwards, while in the
U.S.S.R. it is going up all the
time ; the indications are that its
annual output is now twice that
of the U.S.! In addition, we can
be sure that the Russians are con-
centrating a higher percentage of
their effort on essential projects
such as atomic energy than can
be done in the West, where no
Government dare starve its
people of consumer goods.
“Thus, there is a very real
danger that the Russians are
going to overtake us in the
atomic field by putting a bigger
effort into it.
“Whether we like it or not, we
have to realise that although the
Russians started somewhat later
than the West, and although they
very probably still have fewer
weapons than we do, they are
now equal to us in their know-
ledge of the techniques of
‘atomic’ war and peace. The
‘secret’ of the latest hydrogen-
bomb, the ‘cheap’ one, was
certainly not stolen from the
United States—it was actually
developed earlier by the
Russians!
“We have to realise that the
Russians’ main strength in the
nuclear field is now their own
excellence in science and tech-
nology and the magnitude of
their effort.”
More than three months after
Sir Francis Simon’s review of
the situation" his opinions were
largely confirmed by another
authority. Quoting figures from
Dr. M. H. Trytten, expert for
the U.S. National Research
Council, the “Christian Science
Monitor” promised “rude
shocks” for those Americans who
“believe their technology is
defeating Communism.”
“One startling fact just turned
up,” the “C.S.M.” commented
editorially, “is that the Soviet is
outproducing America in a key
element of technological progress
—the trained men to carry it on.
It is reported that Russia already
has nearly as many engineers—
about 500,000 —and is graduating
two-and-a-half times as many as
the United States.”
“Dr. Trytten’s study of the
situation,” it added, “also shows
that Russia is making great gains
in training researchers and skilled
technicians. While all statistics
from behind the Iron Curtain are
suspect, there is other evidence
that technical progress has been
surprisingly rapid in the Soviet.
This takes the form of guns,
planes and atomic bombs which
in certain particulars equal or
surpass those developed by the
free nations.”
The “C.S.M.” was in agree-
ment, too, with Sir Francis
Simon on the effect of over-
stringent security precautions:
“It is necessary to ask whether
the United States is maintaining
today an atmosphere more favor-
able to free inquiry. Never-
ending ‘security-trials’ such as we
have seen in the Oppenheimer
and Condon cases certainly do
not help. A more intelligent
approach to security is overdue.”
At about the same time that
the “C.S.M.” opinion was pub-
New York “Herald Tribune"
“COME IN, FRITZ—MEET THE FAMILY”
lished, “New York Times” came
out pretty much in agreement
and in substantiation of the
earlier view of Sir Francis
Simon. Giving his authorities as
“informed U.S. leaders in educa-
tion, as well as the heads of
scientific and engineering groups
in Washington,” “N. Y. Times ’
correspondent Benjamin Fine
commented that “despite the
urgent need for additional
engineers and other technically
trained personnel in America, the
supply has gone down in the last
four years”:
“In 1950 the peak was reached
when the nation’s colleges gradu-
ated 50,000 engineers. This has
dropped each year since then,
going to a low of 20,000 last
June.
“At the same time the train-
ing of engineers and scientists in
the Soviet Union has taken a
directly opposite stand. In 1928,
11.000 engineers were graduated.
By 1950 the number had jumped
to 28,000. But in the last four
years the increase has been little
short of phenomenal. The
number of graduates rose to
40.000 in 1953, and to 54,000 this
year.
“The United States has
approximately 500,000 engineers
and 200,000 other scientists.
Russia has 400,000 engineers and
150.000 scientists. But with the
present tremendous rate of train-
ing in the technical schools and
colleges of the Soviet Union it
will be but a matter of several
years at most before we are
reached, if not outstripped, in
the total supply of technically
trained personnel.
“Until two years ago, it was
fashionable to discredit the
quality of the Soviet techno-
logical effort.
“But, said Dr. Thomas H.
Chilton, chairman of the [U.S.]
Engineering Manpower Com-
mission of the Engineers Joint
Council, the performance of
Soviet machines -of - war and
Soviet accomplishment of the
enormous industrial effort
involved in the production of
nuclear weapons have effectively
dissipated* smug self-confidence
in continuing technological
superiority in the U.S.”
emergence as a major challenger
in the world’s markets (and not
merely as salesmen of whisky
and tweeds) is not just a pious
hope:
“It was an American, Walter
Hines Page, who once wrote
ungrammatically but forcibly:
‘My own belief is that the only
invincible thing in Europe are
"Such Noble Stuff"
London “Time and Tide” on
a new feeling in the [British]
air:
“The impetus of a new phase
of the technical revolution is
beginning to make itself felt in
whole fields of our [Britain’s]
industrial production. That stale
frowsty air of a few years ago,
which made many feel that we
had never moved out of the last
half of the 19th century, is being
rapidly dissipated. Our re-


streamlined good-looks and engineering skill
m
Mm
mm
TL&
As English as England.
For over 50 years Vauxhall engineering has led the British car
industry. Each new model has brought new developments, new
luxury to the medium-priced car owner. The current Vauxhali
models carry on this great tradition. See for yourself the stream-
lined grace of these three members of the proud Vauxhall family!
And their outstanding beauty is only the beginning. Drive one
and you’ll find what real pleasure a Vauxhall can give you. That’s
why we ask you to come in soon. The very moment you relax
behind the wheel, the search for your “ideal” car is over.
Illustrated above is the family saloon with spreading comfort for
5-6 people. Like other models shown here, it is available as a
15.63 h.p,, 4 cyl. o.h.v.“Wyvern” or a 23.44 h.p,, 6 cyl. o.h.v. “Velox”.
Designed for those who delighi
in the open road, the Vauxhal
Vagabond has spreading com-
fort for 5-6 people plus a large
luggage boot. A convertible
with sports car performance.
With the new Vauxhall Coupe-
Utility you get the comfort of a
3-passenger Coupe with in-
dependent front suspension
plus 10 cwt. carrying capacity.
List prices: Saloons from £920;
Vagabonds from £900; Utilities from
£890; ALL prices plus Sales Tax.
‘VAGABOND” SPORTS TOURER
J
W
10 CWT. COUPE UTILITY
\au\hall
Ask about the G.M.A.C. Con-
fidential Hire Purchase Plan.
Ask too about the built-for-Vaux-
hall 11 Air chief” Car Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
LTD.
• PERTH
Vl3-33
Sold and Serviced by Vcuxhall Dealers throughout Australia
these same English.’ He added
that we were the most interest-
ing study in the world: ‘Just
when you’d like to hang them for
their stupidity, you become
aware of such noble stuff in
them that you thank God that
they were your ancestors.’
“The mysterious, unpredict-
able resilience of the British
people has, throughout the past
decade, been the factor that could
not be measured, yet had to be
allowed for. It was —and is—the
factor which made the people of
September, 1938, the same
people, yet unbelievably different
in June, 1940. No economist
and no planner dare reckon on
it, real statesmanship can invoke
it. Has that begun to happen
now? It is not altogether
impossible.”
Fleet-street—
Anywhere
“Fleet-street has lost much of
its old gaiety, its Bohemian
raffishness, its street-of-adven-
ture romanticism. Fleet-street
today cannot afford the way-
ward genius, the eccentric
egotist, the clever drunk. Like
Hollywood, it has found
formulae for box-office success,
and the men in demand are
those who can apply them most
effectively.”
Thus John Beavan, London
editor of “Manchester
Guardian,” writing in London
“Spectator” with, one feels,
more than a twinge of nostalgia.
And who, remembering the
Sydney newspaper world of not
so long ago, could but feel the
same?
“Until 1939 Fleet-street lived
with a belated Edwardian gusto.
The pubs seemed to be full of
parsons’ sons noisily hell-bent;
of confident young Celts with a
gleam in their eye and a work
of genius on the stocks; of
hard-drinking executives with
soft Dickensian hearts; of
shambling dipsos telling how the
crew of the ‘Pall Mall Gazette’
had slain the albatross; of
elderly club-men peddling Lon-
don Letter pars to the pro-
vincials.”
There is a familiar ring about
this, too:
“On the nine-guinea minimum
a bachelor could live like a
bookie and the father of five (at
a council school in Dulwich)
could still pay his corner. Fleet-
street was a hearty masculine
club with its drinking competi-
tions, hotpot and pigeon-pie
suppers and boozy harmonic
smokers. All this has gone.
Nobody today has the means,
the leisure or the taste for con-
viviality. The ulcer and not
cirrhosis is the occupational
disease; phenobarbitone, not
Scotch, the professional seda-
tive,
“In the ’thirties,” Beavan
continues, “Fleet-street was
still on nodding terms with
literature. Chesterton and
Belloc could now and then be
seen drinking burgundy at the
Bodega; or at El Vino one
might find Robert Lynd, H. M.
Tomlinson and Desmond Mc-
Carthy holding court. Young
Fleet-street men gaped at the
giants and dreamed. They, too,
wanted to Write and looked to
Fleet-street to provide them with
adventures to write about.
“For about 15 years between
the wars Fleet-street gave the
young reporter all the chances
he needed. ‘Every reporter is
a hope,’ Pulitzer had said, ‘every
editor a disappointment.’ ”
So it was indeed, and one
has often wondered what
changed it. Efficiency, says
Beavan “the pursuit of
efficiency”:
In the ’thirties, “Northcliffe’s
revolution was still developing.
He discovered the common man
as a daily reader. It was left to
Beaverb'rook to discover the
common woman, the housewife
who bought the soap whose
advertisements yielded the
newspaper profits.
“Women were subjective, the
theory went. So reporters ceased
to be objective recorders and
built their stories around their
swelling egos. They would
charter an aeroplane to feed
storm-bound islanders, go into
the ring with Bertram Mills’s
clowns, wrestle with Camera,
rescue flood-victims. Above all
they sought the Woman’s
Angle, even at a Cup-final or
Test-match.
“But while this expansion was
going on, a contractive process
was beginning. The importance
of make-up was discovered.
Chief subs no longer fitted the
news into as pretty a pattern as
they could hurriedly improvise.
They came to the office with
page schemes ready-made and
crammed the copy into it. T
need a five-inch-top for page
one! ’ they would cry in the
agony of composition, and a
nicely balanced ten-inch piece
would be butchered to fit the
jigsaw'.
“That was what killed writ-
ing in Fleet-street —that and the
knowledge that most of the new
readers of newspapers preferred
simple, bright stories lacking
any distinction of literary style.
Sub-editors, once the mice of
Fleet-street, who ticked the
caps, and diffidently shortened
the work of better people, now
become bossy rewrite-men
‘processing’ the copy, produc-
ing predigested pap.
“As they began to earn more
money than reporters all the
talent flowed into their depart-
ment ; and since executives had
now to be technicians, the
ladder of promotion was
removed from the writing
departments and put into the
subs’ room. Reporters became
little more than leg-men chasing
facts and presenting the subs
not with the finished product
but with semi-raw material
which could be stamped into the
approved stereotype.”
What next? “Will Fleet-
street find new techniques? It
is doubtful. The old ones
learned in the ’thirties seem still
to pay best. They cannot de-
velop, however. Type and pic-
tures cannot go substantially
bigger; human interest cannot
be much further exploited.
Young men can only learn the
old tricks and the Boy Wonders
of the ’thirties who invented
them can enjoy a comfortable
middle-age immune from the
challenge of infant-prodigies.”
The "London
Agreement"
The “London Agreement,”
which, it is hoped, will bring
German arnied forces into the
European scheme, still depends
on the approval of the Nato
Parliaments, particularly the
French, but feeling about it is
considerably more optimistic
than it was about the defunct
European Defence Community
proposal.
As London “Economist”
comments, the basic task was to
bring the French and the
Germans together. “But the
others were not mere
spectators. For Mr. Dulles
personally, as for many other
Americans, the events have gone
far to offset the confusion and
dismay of the Geneva
conference”:
“Not only have the Euro-
pean Powers taken the initiative
themselves and shown a will to
unite which Americans had
begun to despair of their ever
doing, but there is once again a
new spring in the partnership
with Britain. Mr. Dulles has
recovered his confidence in the
route Mr. Eden is following, and
American comment is jubilant
that the British have at long last
done the light thing in their
relations with Europe.
“Equally, for the small
Powers, too, for the patient but
often despairing Europeans of the
Low Countries, the new twist to
Western union is a matter for
profound relief. And the cost?
Few in the United States or in
Benelux will feel that the price
anyone has paid bears any serious
relationship to the immense gain
achieved by the possibility of a
fresh start, as much in Western
European political cohesion as in
Western European military
defence.”
Under the agreement, Mr.
Eden promised, on behalf of
Britain, to maintain a British
army of four divisions and
tactical air-force units on the
Continent. Examining that
undertaking pretty closely, the
“Economist” criticised it, not
because it was made, but because
it was made by Britain alone —
“a major new commitment which
the United States does not share
or underwrite”;
“It is true that Britain is only
30 miles from the continent and
the United States 3000; that
Britain is no longer a world
Power on the scale of the United
States, and, in the modern age,
must give increasing recognition
to its affinity with its Continental
neighbors; that, as things stand,
there seems no conceivable
circumstance in which a world
war could'break out without the
United States being in it, this
time from the start,
“But history does not follow
predictable and logical courses.
Doubtless the Americans, had
they seen their own interest
clearly, would have joined in
resisting Hitler from the start.
The fact remains that they did
not —and another fact is that the
American commitment to
Europe in the North Atlantic
Treaty will run Out 30 years
before the new British commit-
ment.”
British Shipping
Starting pretty well from
scratch after the war. West
Germany, in nine years, has built
itself into the second-largest ship-
building country in the world. In
the meantime, and particularly in
the last couple of years, British
shipbuilding figures have been
declining.
As London “Time and Tide”
sets it out, British yards had
1135 ships of a total of 7,000,000
tons on order in mid-1952; in
September, 1953, there were 902
ships on order of 5,837,000 tons ;
in September, 1954, the figures
were 765 ships of 4,409,000 tons.
Further, in the first nine
months of 1954, orders for 188
ships (282,000 tons) were
booked; in the same months,
orders for 29 ships (276,000 tons)
were cancelled. In the last three
months of the same period orders
were received for 55 ships
(50,000 tons), while orders for
15 ships (121,000 tons) were
cancelled.
The decline is, according to
“Time and Tide,” “the price we
[Britain] are paying for the
restrictive practices and repeated
stoppages in the docks and ship-
yards of Britain.”
Making Money
After what is, no doubt, an
appropriately cautious lapse of
time, the 1952 annual report of
the Deputy Master and Comp-
troller of the Royal Mint has
just been published in London.
During that year the Royal
Mint struck 488,750,689 coins,
of which 45,377,583 (9.3 per
cent.) were for the United
Kingdom, 327,409,457 (67 per
cent.) for other countries of the
Commonwealth and 115,963,649
(23.7 per cent.) for foreign
Governments.
It was a good year for export
and never before were so many
coins struck for overseas.
Altogether 77 denominations
were struck for 19 different
countries abroad.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Section 92
Egged on by Dr. Lloyd Ross, the
Australian Railways Union is to embark
on a campaign to get rid of Section 92
from the Commonwealth Constitution.
No doubt Ross and the A.R.U. would
like to substitute Article 4 of the Soviet
Constitution for Section 92, which would
then read; “The economic foundation
of Australia is the Socialist system of
economy and the Socialist ownership of
the implements and means of produc-
tion. ~..”
The Chifley Bank Nationalisation
proposals foundered largely on Section
92, and so has a lot of other Socialist
legislation. Section 92 is divided into
two paragraphs ; the first has permanent
application, while the second was only
operative for the first two years after
Federation. The first paragraph—“On
the imposition of uniform duties of Cus-
toms, trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free”—has been
described as a vague, generalised slogan.
It is, of course, couched in layman’s
language, and most laymen can under-
stand its meaning without much diffi-
culty. The legal profession and the
judiciary, on the other hand, have been
arguing its interpretation for over half
a century, without reaching any settled
conclusions. Section 92 has been the
centre of more litigation than possibly
all the other sections of the Constitution
put together, and lawyers have a deep
affection for it for that reason.
But for all the legal wrangles over
Section 92 and the meaning of the words
“absolutely free,” the fact remains that
it has been a splendid bulwark against
Socialist endeavor. No one who appreci-
ates the significance of the Federalist
system of government will deny its
value. Sir John Latham once observed
in a judgment that; “The Constitution
is based upon and provides for the con-
tinued co-existence of Commonwealth
and States as separate Governments,
each independent of the other within its
own sphere,”
Take Section 92 out of the Constitu-
' That’s unlucky !”
tion and the “co-existence of Common-
wealth and States as separate Govern-
ments” would not be possible.—D. J. K.
(( «-
Wines
Consumption of Australian wines in
the U.K. for the eight months ended last
August dropped from 422,596ga15. for
the same period last year to 370,374ga15.;
nearly 12j per cent.
Portugal was down from 774,838ga15.
to 681,422; a little over 12 per cent.
South Africa, with 689,773ga15., was
only 2720 down, but France was up 48.4
per cent, with 1,441,057ga15. Spain, too,
was up 8.6 per cent, with 1,455,413ga15.,
and Italy 23.2 per cent, with 437,523ga15.
The reason for the rising popularity
of French wines is purely a matter of
price. About 80 per cent, of French
wines are sold below Bs. a bottle, many
at about 6s.
Australia, with higher production- and
shipping-costs, is up against solid com-
petition in the wine trade. Extensive
advertising and better marketing methods
must be tried if we are to regain some
of the U.K. market lost in the last few
years.
The Wine Grape Charges Act will be
amended shortly to increase the
maximum rates of statutory levies on
grapes for wine-making up to 10s. a ton
for fresh grapes and 30s. a ton for dried
grapes. This is to provide funds for a
national advertising scheme, but another
huge sum is required for
advertising in the U.K.
As soon as the results of
an investigation into the
cost of wine-grape produc-
tion by the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics is
known an approach will be
made to the Federal Gov-
ernment for an export-
bounty.
In the meantime the Co-
operative Wine Makers
who ship their wine in bulk
are going ahead with a
scheme to bottle their wines
in England and sell them
under a common label. In
view of the criticism we get
from time to time of our
many and, generally, unsuit-
able labels, this move has
much to commend it.
The quality of our wines compares
favorably with many Continental wines,
but price and our methods of distribution
are big handicaps. An export-bounty, if
it comes, will help, but an overhaul of
the marketing side is long overdue. —
R. M. (N.S.W.).
Literary Magazines
Any distributor’s - catalogue shows
scores of magazines devoted to
specialised subjects, ranging from
astronomy to zoology. Naturally, they
are bought and read only by those
interested in some particular field of
knowledge.
Literary magazines (B. 3/11/’54) cater
in the same way for a small but select
audience, but are a poor advertising
medium. That is why Australia’s two
publications of this type, “Meanjin” and
“Southerly,” have to be subsidised to
keep them going.
These subsidies merely give to one
section of the arts a privilege accorded
to science as a matter of course. How
could scientific papers get into print if
publications devoted to science weren’t
subsidised in one way or another?
The real importance of the literary
magazine is that it gives an opportunity
of publication to authors, essayists and
poets whose work would stand no
chance of acceptance by popular
periodicals, which have to supply what
the majority of people like to read.
Literary magazines select work of a
high standard, ignoring popular appeal.
The result can be seen in any anthology
or textbook dealing with short fiction,
essays and poetry. The list of acknow-
ledgments in these books shows that
most of the contents were published in
literary magazines with small circula-
tions '
The world of letters owes them a great
debt. Katherine Mansfield’s short-stories
appeared originally in magazines of the
literary type. Hers is not an isolated
case and for that reason we should do
our utmost to keep literary magazines
alive. Had Shaw bequeathed part of his
very considerable fortune to subsidising
one of them, lovers of literature would
have cause to be grateful— H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
In the days when most newspapers
“You need some air—and you forgot your pyjamas."
carried literary supplements, literacy was
not as widespread as it is today. The
newspapers then catered for a smaller
public—one which, because of its
literacy, could be expected to be
interested in books.
Newspapers now cater for a much
larger public, and that section of it
interested in books still exists—has been
enlarged, in fact, by the spread of
education.
In giving the public race-gossip, sport-
ing snippets and the latest news from
Hollywood, newspapers are undoubtedly
meeting a demand. But they have a duty
as well, and they should publish literary
supplements, not only for the literate but
for those who need guidance into full
literacy.—No Sirrah (Q.).
Fruit-juice
In some parts of America fresh fruit-
juice is delivered each morning as readily
as milk. There seems to be an idea in
that for Australia. It shouldn’t be hard
to bottle the juices of lemons, oranges,
pineapples, grapes and other fruits so
that they could be delivered to the door-
step at a reasonable price.
Milk-addicts’ notwithstanding, fruit-
juice isn’t bad stuff, and, in some ways,
it has more herbs in it than has milk.
And orchardists who develop ulcers
worrying about their surplus crop would
probably welcome an additional let-out
for their fruit.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Pattern of Events
In his book Far and Wide Douglas
Reed added a postscript on the Korean
War, which began a few days after the
book was finished. He suggested that the
facts regarding the war were not
generally known, and that the issue,
although apparently clear, was not so.
He further stated that he believed it
would turn out a miserable fiasco, in
which we would gain nothing, and that
the real reason and motive behind the
whole operation was the surrender of
Formosa to Communist China. He com-
mented bitingly on the prevention by
actual armed force of any participation
in the war by Chinese Nationalist troops,
fairly itching to have an active part in
the struggle.
Some four years later it is interesting
to recall that remarkable forecast. What
place is in the news now?
For my part, if Formosa is handed
over to Communist China, then, no
matter what high-sounding or plausible
reasons are put forward for this move,
I will know that once again Reed was
right. More than that: the conspiracy
to further the ends of Asiatic Commun-
ism does in fact exist in all corners of
the earth and in high places among our
own people.
Why, is completely beyond the likes of
me and many other folk, but it is impos-
sible to study the last 40 years or so
without observing the peculiar pattern of
events. No matter how things twist and
turn, the pattern still persists
For entertainment in an idle moment
anyone can compile a list of all the
definite and avowed enemies of Corn-
munism—our allies or our own men-
who have been dumped suddenly and
mysteriously. General Mihailovich was
a typical example, Chiang Kai-shek
.another. Or what General Mac-
Arthur? Otto Strasser? General Sir
Frederick Morgan ?
The list hasn’t stopped yet by any
means. I would not regard Senator
McCarthy as an enemy of Communism,
but it could be asked how many really
serious Communists he has put out of
action, and how much damage he has
done the anti-Communist cause. Watch,
too, what happens to, say, Synghman
Rhee. And then see where Alger Hiss
turns up again, and Dr. Fuchs, Dr.
Nunn May and the rest of them. —
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Rates and Rents
While rates have risen considerably
since 1942, rents have been pegged at a
low level. There are two ways of miti-
gating this injustice without resorting to
a general increase in rents.
The first is to peg local rates and to
subsidise the authorities out of general
revenue. Such a scheme would not be
successful, however, going by the similar
arrangement between Federal and State
Governments. Moreover it is becoming
increasingly obvious that local councils
are performing functions not really con-
nected with the occupation of property —
the provision of public libraries, for in-
stance. Yet few would regard this as an
unwarranted extension of municipal
authority.
The best solutipn, it seems, would be
to place liability for these taxes on the
person who obtains the benefit of the
services provided—the occupier, and not
the owner. This would mean giving just
recognition to the present position of
rented premises and giving the occupier
an incentive to take his part in community
activities. — MacD. (Vic.).
Tariff-protection or Efficiency
The plight of C.S.R. Chemicals, which
applied unsuccessfully for tariff-protec-
tion against cheaper imported cellulose
acetate flake (B. 24 /11 / ’54), is typical
of the prospect already facing many Aus-
tralian industries.
C.S.R. Chemicals has built a modern,
well-equipped factory at Rhodes (N.S.W.),
as all who have inspected it can testify.
The product it turns out is of excellent
technical quality, probably as good as any
imported variety and infinitely superior
to many.
The weakness is. in costs, which has
made the Australian product so expen-
sive that it cannot compete with imports,
and the Tariff Board, in all justice, did
well to refuse the company an added
tariff that would have increased the
price of plastic to the consumer.
The contretemps at Rhodes provides
an excellent opportunity for management
and the unions concerned to get together
and see what can be done. Such action
would provide a useful pattern for other
Australian industries that are bound to
be affected similarly by overseas compe-
tition before very long.
The answer to high costs in industry
does not lie with the Tariff Board. It lies
in a realistic approach by both unions
and management to the vital problem of
putting Australian industry on a competi-
tive basis with overseas industry. — Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).


KFROSENE
TILLEY
PRESS UKF
I /
/ /
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT/N OROUTOF DOORS.
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE;
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
“Definitely it’s got
something extra
ymm-
k
and use ENERGOL the oil that
IS RECOMMENDED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd)
C219/8045
the best
yet...
It’s your lucky day when you fill up with
new, higher-octane C.O.R, with BP 08*,
' and a ‘little something others haven’t got’.
Your car deserves the smoother pulling
power, better acceleration, more miles per
gallon, less engine wear you’ll get with
NEW C.O.R.
*BP 08 is the latest, safest ana
most effective solution to tfie
problem of interior engine
care yet devised.
CAPS OFF TO C.O.R
TO-DAY’S MOST POPULAR PETROL
Bank Insurance
That fire in Hamburg in 1842 doesn’t
prove that it would not pay banks to
carry the insurance-risk on their own
property.
Since 1842 great strides have been made
in firefighting methods. Extremely
efficient brigades, good water-supply,
chemical - extinguishers and internal
sprinkler-systems have reduced the risk
to what might be called nominal. An-
other point, and a most important one,
is that the risk would be extremely well
spread—it could not be better spread, in
fact —and no matter of reinsuring would
arise. The individual properties are scat-
tered all over Australia and New Zealand,
as well as certain other countries.
To illustrate: Suppose a bank has 700
or so branches and the average amount
paid in premiums by each branch on
premises, fittings, machinery, cars,
stationery and so forth, was £3O (surely a
conservative estimate), then in one year
a fund of £21,000 would be established.
What it would amount to in the 88 years
at compound interest I leave for some-
one else to work out. Obviously there
would soon be a fund adequate to meet
the loss at any probable point.
As for the risk, compared with lending
money on overdraft there would be little
to worry about. That fire-insurance is
extremely profitable is indicated by the
fact that about 140 companies are en-
gaged in the business. In a recent year
approximately £l2j million was collected
in premiums in Australia for fire-insur-
ance alone, while claims totalled less
than £2} million.
I understand that the Victorian State
Savings Bank has its own insurance
scheme for credit-foncier loans. So has
War Service Homes. Both charge lower
premiums than the tariff companies.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Crimean Relics
Crimean War relics (B. 24/11 /’54)?
After that war the British Government
distributed a large number of pieces of
heavy ordnance, and quite a few sea-
captains returning fropa the Crimea
brought back a variety of souvenirs in
their ships. That might explain how
those two guns came to Adelaide and
why they are ownerless.
The most famous Crimean War relic
in Australia, however, is a ship—the old
Edina, well known to Melbourne people
of a few decades ago and still remem-
bered for her daily trips across Port
Phillip Bay to Geelong.
The Edina was an iron steamer of 380
gross tons, built in Glasgow by Barclay
and Curl. She began her career by taking
a cargo of munitions from England to
Balaclava. Thereafter, until the end of
that war, she ran a shuttle-service between
England and the Crimea, carrying sup-
plies for the Army. She mounted two
five-pounders on her stern for protection.
Florence Nightingale is said to have
visited the ship.
During the American Civil War the
Edina made several trips to the Southern
States, running the blockade into such
ports as Charleston for cotton.
In 1864 the Edina came to Australia
and was entered on the Victorian
Register. In 1880, still in A 1 condition,
she entered the Melbourne-Geelong trade.
Later she was used as an excursion
steamer to the many seaside-resorts in
Port Philip. In 1926 the Edina was with-
drawn from service. She was then said
to be the oldest screw-vessel in service in
the world.
Since then the Melbourne Harbor
Trust has stripped the old ship
down to the bare hull. She lies at a
“ You’ll be Waitin' a long time, mate. They're not gonna
finish that line now."
mooring in one of the lower reaches of
the Yarra, awaiting the tug which will
take her on her last trip down the bay
for the inevitable scuttling.— Geo.
Beesley (N.S.W.).
Early Australian Architects
I was most gratified to see the long
article in The Bulletin (24/11/’54) on
my book The Early Australian Architects
and Their Work. Coming from the pen
of a man of M. H. Ellis’s standing it is
valuable.
But may I comment on two points Mr.
Ellis makes? Although the still-existing
wings of the Rum Hospital are undoubt-
edly our oldest public buildings, from
the architectural point of view they can
only be considered very interesting curi-
osities, and so did not receive large space
in my book. This opinion is substanti-
ated by the writings of no less a person
than Francis Greenway himself.
I was interested to see that Mr. Ellis
attributes the design to men named Bean
and Bradley. As Commissioner Bigge,
who questioned all the people concerned
with the hospital, still had to report that
he could not discover the designers of
that curious place, such information is
revealing.
In regard to John Verge and Camden
Park [about which M. H. Ellis said that
further investigation was needed] it would
seem risky to take John Macarthur’s .writ-
ings as sole evidence that Verge was
merely reproducing another’s plans. As
Macarthur apparently stated that “altera-
tions and modifications” were made to the
original London plans, it would require
careful comparison of T. G. Jackson’s
design and that of Verge to determine
how much of his imprint the latter left
on the final building ; my own researches
have shown that hard architectural fact
overpowers mere recorded opinion.
Also, in my profession, I can appreciate
that when a client is set on an idea he
does not realise how far a skilful archi-
tect, such as John Verge, can lead him,
in his own interests, from the original
idea to one more suited to his require-
ments, without the client being disturbed
in his belief that he “selected the plan.”
But these are small, interestingly argu-
able points that in no way mitigate my
pleasure in Mr. Ellis’s article. — Morton
Herman (N.S.W.).
The Forgotten Men
There used to be a theory that in
Parliament all men were equal, and
all had the right, within suitable limits,
not merely to speak and vote but to
initiate legislation.
These rights seem to be dead in Aus-
tralian Parliaments, and the withering
of private members’ privileges has
changed the whole nature of the legis-
lature as we know it. The private member
speaks when it is agreed that he should
speak. He keeps within bounds in what
he says to suit the party line —or else.
His “private member’s” day still exists
in nominal form if the Government
finds it convenient to observe it —but it
is a token business, and no matter what
he says nobody listens to him, and any
Minister who can escape his oratory
does so. Ministers devote less and less
time to Parliament. The stage has even
been reached at which some of them
in the Federal House are trying to leave
most of the supervision of committee
stages on bills to under-secretaries —
that is, if the Speaker will let them.
The contrast is marked in the House of
Commons, where members are still
members for constituencies and not
rubber-stamps for the Ministry and what-
ever caucus is in power. There, in
committees, back-benchers often have
a considerable say in the framing of
most legislation, apart from their rights
as private members.
All Governments in Australia, State
and Federal, have “back-bench” trouble
which is curbed and kept wiiain bounds
only by the strength of party discipline.
Even that has failed on both sides of the
House during the session of the Federal
Parliament just closed. The House of
Commons does not often suffer in the
same way, and the reason is plain.
Members, while limited in some ways
by reason of their greater numbers, in
many ways are more vocal as a body
than in the small Australian Parliaments.
And they have not lost or had buried
their right to an effective private member’s
day anff their privilege of introducing
legislation, even though they have to
ballot for the right to introduce bills.
Out of the 91 measures brought
down during the 1953-54 British session
26 were private members’ bills.* Two of
them dealing with hire-purchase and
with the slaughter of animals were
adopted by the Government and given
priority, and 12 more became law.
Many important measures have come
forward in the last few years as private
bills, including A. P. Herbert’s marriage-
and divorce-reform and the new laws of
libel.
There seems plenty of room for a
similar method in the Federal Parliament,
where, when in 1949 Mr. Menzies
introduced a bill to deal with Communism
in the unions, “Labor” poured scorn on
it and then stole its principle.
As “legislators” all those outside the
Ministry in Australian Parliaments,
Federal and State, have become forgotten.
They are mere parts of a voting-
propaganda machine manipulated by the
Cabinets and the Whips, whatever party
is in office. —E. D. (N.S.W.).


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
- '• " ■ - ■
« &
— ' - nn —r-i r ——
m I
gf *'-.A
*
M '
m: -
i
m
m
ii
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysoght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CONSERVATION PROBLEMS
AS a landowner, interested in
soil-conservation, it strikes
me that the practical. problems
of the subject are somewhat
underestimated. When any of
our non-rural population become
aware of the enormity of our
destruction of the soil, they ask
a natural question: “Why don’t
the landowners do more about
it? They are the ones most con-
cerned, aren’t they?”
To this simple and logical
question there are a dozen
complicated answers.
They could be grouped under
the economic reasons, embrac-
ing time, money and opportunity,
and the psychological ones. .Of
all the excuses likely to be
offered the least likely is
ignorance, yet ignorance is the
greatest obstacle to land-
restoration.
In the landowner it is ignor-
ance of the very fact of soil-
deterioration ; ignorance of the
need to do something about it
immediately ; ignorance of the
many methods available to
combat erosion at each of its
stages; ignorance of the
inevitable consequences of con-
tinuous *neglect.
In the urban-dweller, ignor-
ance of the effort and the self-
denial required in a landowner
before he can carry out a spec-
tacular programme of soil-
restoration, and ignorance of
his own responsibility in the
matter.
The more one thinks about
the problems of our soil, and the
more one talks with interested
people, the more one is appalled
by the difficulty of getting any-
thing worth-while done. This
may be a hard thing for the city-
dweller to understand, unless he
has some insight into the life of
the farmer.
Every farmer is tied down to
a yearly programme of work
connected with the production of
his wool, wheat, meat, butter or
whatever it may be. This is
essential and unavoidable or he .
doesn’t get the income he needs
to live on; usually it takes up
most of his lime and most of the
money he has earmarked for
wages.
In addition to this bread-and-
butter work there are dozens of
vital, though postponable, jobs,
the neglect of which,will bring
about trouble and loss. Fences
have to be repaired; water-
storage attended to; buildings
kept in order ; farm roads made
traffickable; machinery main-
tained in working condition;
noxious-weeds and rabbits
destroyed. Even telephone-
lines, household-water supplies,
home - electricity, all the
amenities which are laid on and
serviced in towns without the
user having to do a hand’s-turn,
need regular attention, renewal
and repair. The task of arresting
soil-deterioration has to be fitted
in somewhere among all these
things.
The priority it gets will vary
according to the outlook of the
individual farmer. It will depend
on whether he is young and
energetic or old and tired ; on
the sort of wife he has—that is,
whether she is prepared to put
the national future before her
comfort, her mode of living and
her social position ; whether he
has any children, and what sort
of children they are:
Habit, too, puts up its barriers.
Certain things have to be done
at certain limes each year ; if
anything new has to be done,
then something else has to be
neglected.
Farmers also develop their
responses to seasonal conditions.
When it is cold they do this;
when it is hot they do that.
A neighbor of mine had been
convinced that in the interests of
his soil’s fertility he would have
to give up growing wheat. He
was quite determined about it,
and made firm resolutions each
year to do so. Yet when the
autumn rains came and all the
other farmers started-up their
tractors, he was always impelled
by the force of long habit to do
the same. Even when he
developed a serious heart-
condition and his wife had seen
to it that he sold his farming-
plant, when the rains came again
he rushed to borrow an old dis-
carded tractor from a neighbor.
It was a wretched old thing that
had to be cranked by hand; he
knew it could kill him, but he
wouldn’t stop ploughing until it
did.
But presuming that the farmer
is seriously concerned about his
erosion problem, and convinced
of the need to do something
definite about it, there is still a
long way to go before effective
measures are carried out.
First, there is the economic
factor. Any kind of earth-
moving work is frighteningly
expensive. At contract - rates
even the smallest bulldozer costs
pounds per hour, and most of
the contractors won’t start a job
unless there is about £5OO in
sight.
This is enough to kill the soil-
saving enthusiasm of a vast
number of farmers. They just
don’t have that amount of money
to spare, despite all we hear
about rural prosperity. Often
there are decades of arrears to
be made up: so many other
claims for that £5OO or £lOOO
(you would never believe, unless
you had had the experience, how
little you can do on a farm with
£lOOO these days)—a new tractor,
truck, a new fence, a new shed.
The family enter into it, too.
To keep them on the farm they
may need to be placated with a
new car; or a justifiable claim
may be made for long-promised
renovations to the house.
It might be as well to state,
too, the rather self-evident fact
that major earth-moving opera-
tions are beyond the capacity of
the average farmer’s own efforts,
The usual farm - equipment,
which might include a ripper and
a half- or threequarter-yard
scoop, would be absurdly expen-
sive in labor-cost, as well as dis-
couragingly slow and ineffective,
while to buy a bulldozer is
beyond the scope of any but the
wealthiest. And, of course, often
the most expensive operations are
required on the poor hilly farms
of struggling farmers.
Some knowledgeable person
might interject here that loans
can be obtained through the
appropriate department for soil-
reclamation work. True, but
the landowners I know who have
investigated this possibility have
flinched from the details of pro-
cedure: forms to be filled-in,
questionnaires on all sorts of
financially intimate matters, past,
present and future. It all smacks
of charity—bureaucratic charity
—so to blazes with it. They do
what they can without the loans.
Another point. A great many
farmers, over the past five or
six years, have at last been able
to pay off worth-while portions
of mortgages which have been
round their necks for the best
part of their lives. These men
are reluctant to involve them-
selves in debt again: understand-
able. Paying off the farm has
been their life-work—they’ll
leave the soil-saving to their sons,
if they are interested, or to the
next man who takes on the farm,
About farm labor which
directly and indirectly * plays a
pretty vital part in the question,
it might be said that the only
sort which is readily available is
the itinerant, predatory kind, of
which the modern shearer, by
and large, is a typical example,
Taking advantage of the land-
owners’ extremity at shearing,
harvesting or fruit-picking time,
they get their £7 to £lO a day]
thus plucking the heart out of
farmers’ wages-allocation
then depart; if they give a
thought to his soil problems, it
isn’t very obvious
The earth-movine contractor
to fhe < s£CT B oSSTjS
another of these birds-of-nrev
Rut this nnc ran ho fir
°
has taken ns 150 vears tn nnr
land into its present state of
deterioration Another vear or
turn «/rm’t m.,oh ri ff
two won t make much difference.
Coming to the more intangible
iactors, we have the enormous
psychological hazard which con-
fronts the man who is only too
willing to accept excuses for
delay. First of these is one for
which the Soil Conservation
Service is unintentionally respon-
sible. Soil-conservation stations
and demonstrations have almost
invariably been established (for
what appeared to be entirely
commendable reasons) on land
where the erosion was at an
advanced and obviously
dangerous stage. “If we restore
the worst farm in the district,
that ought to convince every-
body,” seems a reasonable
argument.
Having adequate funds to do
a thorough job, they naturally
didn’t run the risk of failure
through inadequate earthworks,
so the water-retaining, the water-
diverting and the water-
absorption banks they put up
were spectacular. The comments
which landowners make among
themselves are illuminating. “It
looks like a wild night on the
ocean”—seeing the resemblance
to lines of breakers—“lt looks as
if an atom-bomb had hit the
place! ” Or, less imaginatively
but more discouragingly, “It
would cost more than the land is
worth! ”
Now it is only necessary to
read the foreword by E. S.
Clayton, in the October issue of
the Soil Conservation “Journal,”
to find a triumphant vindication
of this type of work. He reports
on the first 10 years of the
Wagga S.C. station. Ten years
ago, as hundreds of Riverina
men can testify, the site of the
station was a man-made ruin:
one of the worst examples I have
seen of what damage can ,be
done to good land. Now it is
one of the most fertile and pro-
ductive farms in the Wagga
district. It is a noble and inspir-
iug example of what can be
achieved by men of vision, and
proves beyond doubt, that drastic
and comprehensive treatment
can be successful on the most
unpromising land. It even proves
* ba t such treatment can be
commercially successful.
Yet the number of privately
owned iarms on which that kind
treatment would be a prac-
ticable proposition to the owner
would be very small. Not only
do many thousands of pounds
need to be s P en t, hut for the first
ew years there is no income,
No stock and n 0 cro P mean a
relativel y ff uick recovery, but
*r e is the wh °«■» d °
lt?
F seems to me that, now the
demonstrations have proved their
2* * S COUld
shlfted-
• What 1 should I,ke to see 18 an
mtense cam P ai g n to make land-
owners aware of the early stages
of soi i. deterio ration ; teaching
them to detect, even before any
visible signs of erosion are
apparent, the evidences of
declining soil-fertility.
This is where the problem
begins, and here the remedial
steps are comparatively cheap
and simple. Just a matter, in
many cases, of running less stock
and sowing less crop; or intro-
ducing clover into pasture ; or
some unimposing x pasture-
furrows or deep-ripping on the
contour. Something that gets
away from the paralysing
psychological block caused by
the bulldozer and its serried
banks.
There is something profoundly
revolting about the sight of torn-
up earth, and it is a psychological
error on the part of the Soil
Conservation Service that its
work should inevitably be
associated with that aspect of
soil-reclamation. A farm treated
in such a manner loses its
familiarity and friendliness. A
manager of a country-town bank
told me that when he asked a
client why he didn’t take some
action to prevent the soil-erosion
on his land, the man had said
that if he put up a lot of
contour-banks on his farm, “like
they have at the demonstration,”
he wouldn’t be able to drive a
car around his property, A
weak example? Perhaps ; but
it supports my point about the
bulldozer approach.
Had the bank-manager known
more about soil-conservation, he
could have pointed out to the
farmer that the early preventive
work would offer little obstacle
to the driving over the farm in
his car. Moreover, this sort of
work can be carried out with the
kind of machinery found on
almost every farm, and would
thus be within his financial
capacity. He would, in fact, be
deprived of every excuse for
neglecting the problem.
The preventive technique
could be regarded as analogous
with recent developments in
medicine, to which the work of
soil-conservation has many
parallels. A few years ago all
the emphasis was on surgery,
hacking off limbs, removing
tonsils, appendices and gall-
stones. Now the more respec-
table practitioners tend to think
in terms of prevention. Skill
in early diagnosis takes away the
need of the surgeon’s knife. So,
also, it should be emphasised
that the bulldozer is the last
desperate resort in extreme cases.
Now, while there is still time,
landholders should be induced to
rush to save their still-valuable
acres.
I would go so far as to say
(though I know that if I said it
at a farmers’ conference I’d run
the risk of being shot) that the
Soil Conservation Department
should resume all the land which
can only be restored by bull-
dozer methods, because few
farmers will ever do it.
Later it could be released for
resettlement, with stringent con-
ditions about its use. But in the
department’s approach to the
landowner, the emphasis should
be on education ; education in
the diagnosis of soil-ailments;
education in the methods of
timely treatment; and —by no
means unimportant—education
in moral responsibility.
The moral question is, in fact,
the most fundamental of all, and
the one about which I feel the
least optimism. It cannot be
denied that there are a great
number of landowners for whom
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
The Uranian cycle indicates further heavy rains from
the 19th to the 24th of this month, and this should be a test
as to whether this cycle will modify the dry conditions
which should be experienced next year.
The sunspot minimum is continuing, as the sun still
remains clear of spots.
LENNOX WALKER.


BARNARDS
ENGLISH WIRE NETTING
Now that many users have had
the chance to try out Barnards
Netting, and their neighbours
have been able to see that its
quality is the best in the world,
demands are increasing heavily.
If your usual Dealer has not
commenced stocking Barnards
Mixed Mesh Netting yet, ask us
for the name and address of
your nearest supplier.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 3776. Phone BW 9647
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health, Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage or
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
•:"
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
LTD.,
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygela Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide,
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston,
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Your OWN Grain Storage!
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
RB
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
L. A
mm
—t
J&'U-'Kf]]
*■
V*VV%'
AND AUGERS
SILOS
9 Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
9 Easily erected—permanent
# Rodent and weatherproof
9 Extras available include: ac-
cess door, earthring, etc.
9 Prompt delivery
AUGERS
9 Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
9 Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
9 Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
9 Vertical sets complete with
wall brackets, chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS are priced as low as
£B2/10/-; Popular Type for
2000 Bushel Silo, £lO9 (Motors
not provided).
CURRENT PRICES (AT WORKS):
500 bushel silo £7O
1000 „ £llB
2000 „ „ ' £lB2
2000 „ „ (Squat) £192
3000 „ £236
3500 „ £259
4500 „ £306
Wrfte for further information and agents' names to Dept. No. B
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LTSAGHT (AUST.) PIT. LTD.. IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
no excuse can be offered. Men
who are out to make as much
money as quickly as possible
and who don’t care a damn for
the consequences.
In America this type are
known as “suitcase” farmers
because they never stay in any
one place for any length of time.
It is hard to believe that, over
there, the “suitcase” farmer is
responsible for the re-creation,
in 1954, of the dustbowl in
Colorado, Texas and Oklahoma,
after fabulous sums had been
spent by the U.S. Government in
reclaiming the area (this time it
is nearly twice as big as the
1930 one, 12 million acres,).
Australian farmers would do
exactly the same if they had the
same opportunity.
The exploitive instinct is
deeply rooted, and is by no
means confined to farmers. The
problem is bound up with the
morals and ethics of the whole
community. It is illogical to
expect farmers to live the most
austere and self-denying lives in
order that future generations
may be adequately fed, if at the
same time they see the rest of the
population living only for what
they can get out of the passing
moment. It is hard enough to
keep people on the land without
imposing any special obligations
on them. They are drawn away
to the towns and cities by the
apparently higher standard of
living, where even the laborer
enjoys amenities which would
cost a fortune to the isolated
farmer.
Many thoughtful farmers,
viewing the gradual deterioration
of their properties, and seeing
their sons and daughters rush
away to city occupations, have
a rather embittered conviction
that the high standards of city-
life are paid for out of the
impoverishment of the land. It’s
difficult to deny some justification
for their claim.
E. O. Schlunke.
Peanuts in N.S.W.
“Hortus”; This crop does
well in the light, sandy soil of
the Gosford district. It’s a pity
it isn’t grown as a commercial
proposition in such favorable
parts, where it could be a useful
second- or third-string.
Chief climatic requirements
are: no frost at any stage of
growth, good sunshine, well-
distributed rainfall and dry
autumn.
As weed-growth is fatal to
the success of peanut-growing,
a thorough preparation of the
soil is absolutely necessary.
Summer-grass is a menace. Best
to make it come up and then
choose a hot day to plough. The
sun will do the rest.
Most of this light, sandy-
loam is fairly poor in plant-
food. So it’s really necessary
to put a supply of humus in the
soil by ploughing-under a crop
such as cowpeas, velvet-beans or
red-clover. Use dolomite to
counteract acidity.
October and November are
the best months to start plant-
ing. A bit late now, but worth
keeping in mind for next year.
Use shelled nuts (good seed can
be obtained at Lismore), but
delay shelling until a week or
so before planting.
Amount of seed required
varies with variety. The same
applies to planting-distances.
White Spanish, 6in. to Sin. be-
tween plants and 30in. to 36in.
between rows, requires 251 b. to
301 b. shelled peanuts. This type
suits the confectionery trade.
For roasting, Virginia Bunch
and Virginia Runner are good:
12in. to 15in. between plants and
36in. to 42in, between rows.
V.B. and V.R. take 201 b. to
251 b. seed per acre.
For fertiliser at planting-
time use a complete manure
composed of super, five parts,
sulph.-amm. two parts and
potash one part, applied at rate
of 2cwt. per acre. Keep culti-
vating between rows as long as
possible, as a loose, friable
surface is essential for flower-
pegs to gain entrance to soil
without difficulty.
Peanut - bush with nuts
attached has a high feeding-
value. What’s more, it’s very
palatable to stock.
On these light, sandy soils,
under normal conditions, a yield
of approximately 12cwt. per
acre may be anticipated.
Collecting Specimens
Various parasites in
sheep produce the same
symptoms. For instance,
barber’s-pole worms produce
emaciation, bottle-jaw and pale-
ness of skin. Exactly similar
symptoms are exhibited by fluke-
infested sheep. Hair-worms,
nodule and large-bowel worms
all cause scouring,- Microscopic
examination is the only sure
method of diagnosis.
Droppings sent to Government
departments for examination
must be gathered within a few
minutes of being passed. Collect
a small tinful, have a tight-fitting
lid and wrap closely in brown
paper. Enclose a slip giving
sender’s name and address, age,
sex and condition of the sheep.
If lambs are also affected put
their droppings in a separate tin
suitably labelled.
Feed for Wool
“Malleeroo”: Feeding and
management are responsible for
at least 70 per cent, of the dif-
ference between high and low
cuts of wool within a flock. The
margin is even greater between
flocks of the same breeding.
At the same time, breeding
and selection are still important.
Much more wool can be expected
from feeding a well-bred flock
than feeding a nondescript one.
But the main factors influencing
the amount of wool any sheep
grows are affected greatly by
feed.
The first of these factors is
body-size and -development,
which determine the area of
wool-producing skin. Then there
is the number of little holes —
follicles —through which the
wool grows on the skin. Finally,
there is the size of these follicles.
Better feeding increases the
weight of wool on a sheep and
the number of sheep on an acre.
The final result is more wool and
consequently more money from
each acre.
Deep-litter Pigs
“N.”: When G. M. D. Carse,
principal livestock-officer of the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, and an acknowledged
authority on pigs, was recently
looking at piggeries around
Tamworth, Gunnedah, Narrabri
and Gilgandra the matter of
buyer-resistance to pigs raised
under the deep-litter system was
put up to him. It’s a fact that
in some centres this resistance
exists.
Carse mentioned the
tendency of buyers to depress a
market, when possible. In any
case, it didn’t apply to the Sydney
market, where “deep-litter pigs
were sought, and, under the new
weight-and-grade system, almost
invariably brought top prices,
Stated objections to the
system were based on a fallacy,
It was said that exercise was
necessary to develop muscle,
This was not so-protein built
muscle. Exercise hardened the
fibres, made the muscle tough,
and gave the dark color seen in
most bacon. But this dark color
was an undesirable feature,
Other criticism of pigs becom-
ing too fat and soft was not
confirmed by observation,
Carcasses of deep-litter pigs
Carse had seen through the
curing process had good color
and firm fat. But, of course, pigs
raised under this system, as under
any other system, could be over-
fed, or poorly fed at certain
stages.
Crosscuts
A.C.T. : Pressure in Parlia-
ment by members from elec-
torates with large poultry-farms
has persuaded the Common-
wealth Government to tell the
Bureau of Agricultural Eco-
nomics to make a survey in all
mainland States of the stxuc-
turc - economic situation and
management practices of the
Sydney area! £en
* *
Balranald (N.S.W.) P. P.
Board (extending from above
Booligal, on the Lachlan, down
to the junction with the
Murrumbidgee, and on to the
Murray) reports that land-
holders m those parts dont
want a scalp-bounty on wild
P^ 8 - Reason—shooters cause
more damage than pigs.


The Boat
by
Roy
theodore
THE boat became my affair
about the same time as
Gerry Lewis snicked the
top joints off two fingers
on the electrical saw in his
father’s mill.
Gerry’s misadventure held our
interest mainly because of my
brother Dusty’s story of how one
of the severed fingertips flipped
up on to a cross-spar and stuck
there. Later Dusty retrieved the
finger and bottled it in metho.
But the boat was something
different in its impact upon me,
and upon Dusty, who is my older
brother by a year and a half.
She was a 12ft. flattie, not a
clinkered boat, but a backyard
tub of broad beam tapered
abruptly to a pug bow. Her
sides were simply made from a
12in.-by-half plank hacked, bent
and hammered to fit her rough
curves. Slab-end thwarts and
2in. nails mostly held her
together, and tar and putty in
large quantities also helped.
Whoever had owned her must
understandably have grown dis-
gusted with her, for she was
abandoned on a mudflat about
two miles down the river from
our home when I found her, the
water slopping her backside like
a tired roue making the passes
that are expected by an ageing
mistress.
I was twelve then, and the boat
lay on its mudbank every day for
a week as Dusty and I went by
scooping for enungas.
The enungas were important
in our lives as children. They
were small fish, like overgrown
whitebait, which lay in shallow
water along the mudflats. We
would slop along the bank, the
smelly mud up to our knees,
netting the enungas where we
could get close enough, quick
enough. Then we had to bait
them on to Dad’s set lines, taking
home the kawhai that had been
caught overnight.
We lived five miles up-river
from the sea—too far for the
saltwater fish to come—and the
colorless, dirty river kawhai were
the only fish about. Dad’s lines
usually took in four or five each
night, and he sold these at the
near-by pa for up to two shillings
each.
YXiTE were poor. I remember I
first heard that from Gerry
Lewis, whose father told him it
was because Dad was a drunk.
That was why we lived in a
timbered whare on the river-bank
near the pa instead of in a proper
house in the town, and it was
why Dad sold fish to the Maoris
and milked a few of next-door's
cows instead of working steady.
Perhaps the boat wouldn’t have
concerned us if we’d had break-
fast that morning, but when
Dusty and I came back from the
kawhai lines there was a row on
between Mum and Dad over
some red wine he’d been buying
and no breakfast.
, “Here’s an apple each,” said
Mum, flustering around. “Now
you kids get off to school. Ask
the store to give you a pie each
for lunch, and say Pop’ll be in
later to fix up.”
Dad carried on about us not
having a meal and how Mum
could rave about his grog, but
how pies and tick at the store
were all she could achieve in the
home. When we started to go he
called us back.
“You better skip school today
if your old woman can’t get your
meals ready. Better gimme a
hand with the cows.”
This was nothing new either.
We skipped school regularly, and
the only reason we got away with
it I think is that the truant-
inspector hated the five-mile
bike-ride up the old clay road to
our place.
Anyway, after the cows, Dusty
and I skipped down the paddock
back to the river to spend the rest
of the day making the boat ours.
We pushed and heaved at the pug
until we had rocked some of the
mud from her sides and were
able to slide her into deeper
water. Her sides were rotted and
water had strained through in a
dozen places, but we pulled her
round to a bit of sand and turned
her upside-down, then patched
her with more old nails and some
jam-tin lids. She still leaked, of
course, but the leaks were smaller
now and we could control them
by bailing regularly.
Back at the house later Dad
roused on us for getting away,
but we kept the boat secret. We
had decided that the boat was
going to be ours for as long as it
could.
And from then on she did
become our escape from home.
Every morning on our way to the
kawhai lines we inspected her,
and at the weekends we made
short voyages in her. They were
happy, exploring trips. We took
her up the side-creeks where giant
willows grew into the water itself,
and once we were away from the
broad stretch of river it was easy
to imagine we were up the
Amazon, with great water-snakes
waiting in the leaf-covered,
sluggish water for us to capsize,
and giant pythons hiding in the
trees above us.
We navigated up the blood-
pipe creek, an outlet stream for
waste from the near-by freezing-
works ; and there were moments
sweet with excitement as we took
big, ugly on our cord-
lines and struggled them into the
boat. Dusty caught one 4ft.
long, a monster who tinted our
excitement with fear. Skidding
down the boat it went, twisting
and writhing, while from the
safety of our seats we lunged
with our knives at it, stabbing
again and again.
My knife finally went in near
its head and with horror I
thought, “I can’t pull it out or
he’ll come with the knife.” I
held the eel pinned, the rest of
its body writhing around my arm
and sweat running down my face,
until the monster died.
another trip we took Pani,
a Maori boy from the pa.
We went across the river, from
our own side to Taniwha Beach,
a stretch of sand about 300yds.
long backing a Maori burial-
ground. It was sacred land, and
Pani was quivering with a fear
he tried to hide when we reached
it. But when he saw us splashing
about in the water he joined us,
and later while we lay in the
sand he told us about the
taniwha devil. This taniwha,
unlike most, was a woman, and
Pani’s father had once seen her
skimming down the river on her
breasts. Pani himself thought
he had once seen her at dusk, a
large white figure moaning softly
as she flew.
Other days we didn’t go out,
but just worked on the boat. We
had sealed her well by this time.
We made proper paddles to
replace the boards we had been
using. We scraped away much
of her old paint and recovered
her with some Gerry Lewis got
for us. We ripped out a broken
seat and put in a new one. We
built a mast and sewed an old
sheet and shirts into a kind of
patchwork sail.
The boat filled all one long
summer for us and Dad nevef
knew about her. At first we had
to be on our guard, but after a
short time it became natural not
to speak k>f the pug, just as we
never spoke about home when we
were with the boat.
And it continued to rule our
lives till the night Dusty and I
took Pani on the flounder-
spearing trip. We had bound
pieces of an old car-tyre on to a
steel rod with wire, and this gave
us a yellow spluttering light
which Pani held over the
darkened water as we drifted
along. now and then the
light would show a small flounder
hugging the silt-bed, and Dusty
or I would dip a spear below the
surface and jab at the fish.
There were few flounders
about, and we were inexpert in
our spearing, so that we had
taken only three fish after two
hours’ fishing. The game began
to pall, and the fun was lessened
by the knowledge that we
couldn’t take the fish home with-
out disclosing that we’d been in
a boat.
XT was Dusty who suggested we
head over to Taniwha Beach
again before going home. He
made the suggestion craftily,
knowing Pani’s fears. In day-
light, Pani had been prepared to
try it, but in the dark . . .
“Aren’t you game?” he asked
Pani.
When he finally agreed’ to
come, Pani had done more than
most of his elders would. He
had said yes in spite of the
thousand tales of spirits he’d
heard and believed. So that
when the boat nudged into the
beach again it was more than
anything else because Dusty and
I wanted to see how Pani would
behave. Now, yes, one can easily
say it was cruel. But then, no.
With the moonlight flickering
over the shadowy beach it was
indeed spooky. Dusty and I were
nervous, but perhaps emboldened
by the Maori boy’s fear, which
was becoming more and more
patent. We walked from one
end of the beach to the other
and back, and Pani’s trembling
finally drove him to ask us to go
back home. To this I would
willingly have agreed had not
Dusty wanted to make it clear
that he cared nothing for the
ghosts.
“I’m going to walk through
the graveyard to Kingi’s grave,”
he whispered. “You two will
have to come too, if you’re not
scared.”
He set off on the walk, of
about 250yds. through grass and
brambles to the roughly fenced,
neglected graveyard. I stayed
behind a moment with Pani, his
fear clear upon his brown face
now, then I forced a foot forward
and began following.
“You must come, you know,”
I called to Pani. And whether
he was more scared of remain-
ing behind by himself I do not
know, but he started slowly after
me.
That short walk, with Dusty
now invisible somewhere ahead
of us, was horrible. The
brambles frightened every time
they whipped against us, a hare
started up somewhere and Pani
grabbed tightly at my arm and
the darkness seemed to become
more intense.
BY the time we reached the
** barbed-wire strands loosely
draped around the graveyard’s
perimeter I was wishing fervently
to turn back. I had to force
myself under the wire and then
Pani spoke. He was nearly
sobbing.
“No further, no further,” he
said. “Taniwha waiting in there
I feel him already. Go back to
boat.”
“Come on,” I hissed. “You
nfust come on now.” I wanted
Pani with me as much for mv
own comfort as any thoughts of
him.
“No. I go back to the boat.”
I grabbed his arm and half-
pulled him into the wire. A
strand flicked at his head, he
ducked and was beside me inside
the cemetery. Now there was
only a hundred yards ahead of
us, but our joint fear was becom-
ing terror as we threaded past
the few headstones and over the
other unmarked mounds. Pani
was crying, quietly at first but
gradually more loudly.
When we reached Kingi’s
grave, the biggest in the
cemetery, there was no sign of
Dusty. By the streaky moon-
light I caught a glimpse of Pani’s
face, contorted now with the
terror he had tried to subdue.
There were tears in the creases
of his cheeks and he tried to
speak but choked on the words.
Then that ghastly, horror-
laden cry broke from somewhere
near us. It was a shriek, ear-
splitting and terrible, that arose
from a low pitch to a high
scream like a thousand devils in
a chorus of evil. I forgot the
quaking Pani, forgot the missing
Dusty, forgot everything except
running. How I got through the
barbed-wire without "being
decapitated I do not know, but i
was at the boat before my funk
began to dissipate, and while I
slumped against its friendly bulk
Dusty came running down.
He was laughing loudly—the
shriek, of course, had been his—
but it was some minutes before
I had calmed down, and then
there was still the dirty taste of
terror left in my mouth.
I could make no pretence at
covering my panicky behavior,
and when Dusty saw how badly
it had affected me he became
quiet, too. We waited for Pani,
whom Dusty had seen run in the
opposite direction from me, but
there was no sign of him.
Dusty went back looking for
him, calling his name, but finally
we had to return home alone,
frightened and desperately regret-
ting the idea of going to Taniwha
Beach.
I>ANI was found the following
A morning, dead, with a broken
neck, at the foot of the hillock
down which he had tumbled in.
his terrorised flight. There was
a fixed look of horror on his face
that took little explaining to the
Maoris when they heard where
he had been found. The pakeha
court took even less understand-
ing to bring in the usual mis-
adventure verdict.
Dusty and I, shaken by every-
thing, had said nothing at all
about our part in the episode.
No one, till now, has ever heard
about the trip.
And when we could face see-
ing the boat again, Dusty and I
pushed it off from the bank into
the stream. It drifted off, this
friendly coffin of our boyhood,
the water slap-slapping its back-
side with the same tired
familiarity.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 307
Across
I—Seven fruits included by stealth.
(11)
7 Pest what flows into the Black
Sea? (3)
8 — Ways of getting in and out of the
wives’ yard. (9)
9 Awson screecher. .(5)
11— This makes a traveller pull back
an organ and dupe four with her
Majesty. (8)
12 — South African feature which is
noted for its flow —of lava. (4)
13 — Accommodation for American
crooks who have a penchant for
going to the pen chant more than
once. (4-4)
15—This makes the dove call spot
back with bush-calls. (6)
18 —Priest changed the most mature
Rhode Island nuisance. (6)
J9 —Blow pure backwardness, for he
works with a crank. (6-2)
21 — One of the world’s biggest drains
kept in line. (4)
22 — You separate a parent and an
artist covering some time with a
town near Deniliquin. (8)
25 — One indifferent to pleasure and
pain. (5)
26 — The boss originally had strife
with this orthodox diving attitude
to make the torn shirt fade.
(4-5)
27 — Used to be cut back. (3)
28— Rough lenses are like this Sydney
mid-town railway system. (11)
Down
I—They respond to a bow but
tinker about with canonised
jewellery. (6-7)
2 Regretting part of the ladder
when I am jusf half way down.
3 Catalogues of notions wherein
perfectionists are found. (9)
4 —Dodge’s girl belongs to Idriess.
(8)
3—A tree’s changing the more
Oriental festival. (6)
6 The place for the oil upset us and
a legislator. (4)
7 Crook little animal turned up
with a chartered accountant
never. (9)
10 English author of many books
out of bed and carried with good
backing. (4-9)
14—Money earned from “A Sleep of
Prisoners” assuming that these
are namesakes of Gellert and the
oboe-playing Goossens. (9)
16 Dotard introduces antique equip-
ment between railway-carriages,
(3, 6)
D A serenade, perhaps, can be
dangerous to people with trouble-
some chests. (5, 3)
20—Pulverised parent has dropped.
(6)
23 — A row suggested by a great
pianist. (5)
24 — Unbleached councillor keeps you
away from the East. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 306


40S7R4U4S PREM/CRAM/t O •
SAY "MERRY XMAS" WITH HUNDREDS OF GIFT SPECIALS!!
EVERY ITEM A GENUINE BARGAIN!! SEND YOUR ORDER NOW!!
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
COMPACTS
AMAZING GIFT
SPECIAL
o
Ultra-modern design. Heavy
gold-plated. 2 popular sizes
as illustrated. Brand new.
Perfect. 65/-
value for just
Post that order
now. Post 1/-.
10/-
PARACHUTES!
Ex-“8.A.A.E.” PURE WHITE
SIEK Water Damaged Only.
64 s<|. yds., with all silk cords.
Packed in Original Container.
Cost £90 —Must Sell.
V.
TN/\/\A/
\ y 7
w '/
ONEY
Add 3/6
Cartage
to Kail
m
AIR FORCE type
SHOES
(as illustrated)
“We sell thousands of pairs.”
Smart, Attractive Shoes
made from highest grade
leathers.* Plain caps. Good
wide last. Sizes from s’s to
10’s, including half-sizes. ..
BARGAIN AT ONLY
49/6 or.
LIMIT OF 3 PAIRS.
Post 3/6 pr.
XXX SPECIAL
DIGGER-TYPE HATS
Just released.
150 only. Brand New
ALili SIZES
Only, ea«h.
24/6
Post 1/6
EX-ARMY
A.W.A.S. KHAKI
DRILL SHORTS
:w-
Highest grade, brand new,
perfect! In sizes 21, 35,
36, 39. Amazing value.
OXLA
15/- pr.
post free.
PLAY TINTS
“GIFT BPE< I i t FOR
THE FITTER ONES!”
High quality Flay Tents!
featuring either “cowboy”
or “Indian” stencil on side.
Big 6x4x3 size. A big
“Santa Claus” special at
ONFT
30/- ea.
Add 3/6 post.
Post that order NOW!
LIGHTER AND CIG. CASE SPECIAL
*s
u
a?
M
NEW “BEFOKM-
ETTE” Single action
Imported Austrian
LIGHTER.
Precision - built Im-
ported CIG. CASE—
Double Pack —heavy
silverplated.
65/- value.
2 for 17/6
POST FREE
t
LINEN
SPECIAL!
ţ
SHEETS
PILLOW-
CASES
T. TOWELS
TOWELS
Ipr. snow white heavy bleached quality
hemmed D/B Sheets, 80 x 90.
4 English heavy quality multi striped
big Face Towels, 36 x 18.
2 pure “Irish linen” heavy quality im-
ported T/towels, fancy borders. (Cn-
hemmed). Big sizes.
2 snow white “housewife” pillow cases.
High quality. Good big sizes.
£6/10/- value /
TSU / ■ the lot
for just .... j
One lot to each customer. Post 3/-
&
GIFT
CIG.
CASE
featuring: "'Map
of Australia.”
Precision made.
In shining'
Chrome finish. Ultra modern,
slips in pocket or handbag.
30/- value for just
Post 1/-.
Easily
15/-
RUSH
THIS
ORDER
NOW!
OVERALLS!
Genuine “sanforised” shrunk
bib and brace in quality high
grade khaki drill. Full roomy
cut. Sizes are from 4s. to Bs.
Terrific savings on these at only
27/6 pr.
Post 3/-.
WHITE COMB.
OVERALLS
Here’s a bargain for the painter
and garageman. Heavy quality
combs, in extra strong desouti
duck. Will last and last. Sizes
4’s to B’s. Thousands sold at
the low, low price of ONLY
35/- pr.
Post 2/6 pr.
I DEAL IN CANVAS BY
2000yds. 72in.
STRIPED AWNING
CANVAS
Brand New and Perfect.
72in. (6ft.) wide. Green Stripe
on light grey background.
High quality, all imported.
100 uses. Amazingly priced
at ONLY
8/11 yd.
Post 1/- yd.
3000yds. 72in.
WHITE DESOUTI
DUCK CANVAS
73in. (6£t.) wide. Terrific offer
here for tent walls, car covers,
blinds, drop sheets, etc.
Worth 13/6 yd.; now ONI/ST
5/6 yd.
post 1/- yd.
1000yds. 36in.
HEAVY TARP.
CANVAS
Fully waterproof. Popular
khaki color. Full 1,5 for tarps.
Covers haystacks, etc. Save
pounds on this at ONIY
9/6 yd.
Post 1/6 yd.
Army Valise
SLEEPING BAGS
BRAND NEW! Waterproof
canvas blanket lined. Has
pillow recess. Cost over £lO
to make.
GIFT SPECIAE, ONEY
Add 3/6 cartage to rail.
Feather Filled
SLEEPING BAGS
Genuine “Japara” Sleepers.
Specially selected purified
duck feathers. Complete with
Japura hood attached. Eight,
packs away in own draw-
string Japara bag.
“YOU CANT BUY A
BETTER STEEPER”
Usual price is around £lO
value mark. We release now
for ONLY
m
Plus 3/6 post.
Zip Fitted
SLEEPING BAGS
W’PKOOF SLEEPERS AT
LESS THAN COST!
Save on these now. Well filled
with new wadding. Quilted
so filling can never drop. Zip
fitted. Full size. In own bag.
COMPLETE FOB JUST
SPECIAL FOR “DAD”
fieniiiup “IT-S.” Army StftT
Genuine “U.S.” Army Star
Razor Blades. Fits any safety
razor. In boxes ot
TOO blades 20/
Post 3/6.
Post 1/-.
XXX
SPECIAL!
EX-ARMY
EYE SHIELDS
Just Released
4 for 2/-; doz.
lots 5/-; gross
lots at 3/6 doz.
Post extra.
“HOLDEN” AND OTHER
OWNERS! GENUINE
"JAPARA" CAR COVERS
Made from “R.A.A.F.” Japara
Target Sheets. Light! Durable!
Fully eyeletted! Slashed price:
15 x 13 18 x 13
m £6*
GREEN PROOFED
CAR COVERS
Lightweight. Non-
scratch. Fully eyeletted.
In two wanted sizes:
15 x 13 18 x 13
£6/9/6 £7/19/6
Post 4/6.
PAINT BRUSHES
rented siz6Sj
34/6
H
Sensational purchase. Com'
plete set of five wanted sizes,
lin., Ijin., 31n.,
3in., 4in. Worth
double this
price. THE SET
Add 2/- postage.
STRETCHERS
EX-ARMY FOLDING
HEAVY CANVAS TOP
New! Shop-soiled only.
Worth £5. OO /A AM
Our price w# / O vU*
Add 2/6 to rail.
MATTRESSES
New and perfect. Flock
filled. Imported ticking.
Strong tufted. 6ft. x 2ft. 3in.
Only AA i L
Nearly half price. Jmf I %3
Post 2/6.
PILLOWS
Extra Special! Standard
sizes. Imported English
ticking. Well filled.
OCR SUPER OFFER
2 for 15/6
Add 2/6 post.
EX-“NAVY” BLUE
DRILL WORK
TROUSERS
Just released. Brand new
and perfect. Heavy blue
drill. Naval work issue.
Sizes to 40in. waist. Our
big clearance
price, ONI/Y.
nsi.
24/6
Post 2/-.
PAIR
“YANKEE”
"BATTLE DRESS" JACKETS
I
BACK
m
m
m
*6
m
SENSATIONAE RELEASE! !
Highest quality proofed imported
Gaberdine. Enlly lined. Exact copy
of U.S. Army Wartime Jacket. Inner
zip closure, action back. Very smart.
In wanted fawn shades. Easily worth
up to £lO. Sizes 4’s, s’s only.
OUB PRICE
85/- ea.
Post 3/6
LEATHER JACKETS
XX Gift Special!!
PURE
COW
HIDE
FULLY
LINED
m
Highest grade genuine cowhide leather
in both “Safari” or “Lumber” style.
Every modern feature. Full roomy
cut. Zip fitted. All pockets. Buy
now before the rise. Every size avail-
able. WORTH OVER £lO.
“LUMBER STYLE” “SAFARI”
(as illustrated)
£6/19/6 £B/15/-
Add 8/6 post.
"YANKEE" JACKETS
*
Wp.ll
Brand new. Zip Fitted.
Rubberised Waterproof Pop-
lin. In shades of AA / £
blue, Burgundy, JLm / O
green. Post 3/6
Sizes 4to 8. Colossal Value.
XX SPECIAL
GENUINE BLACK
"INDIANA" SOX
IND
6 prs. 25/-
Add 3/- postage.
WORK SOCKS
Army type H’weight khaki
All sizes.
4 prs. for £1
Post 1/6.
“We SELL THOUSANDS/
R.A.F.
FLYING
GOGGLES
I.A.F. Mark IV. Brand new
additional night lenses. Adjust-
able sun visor. Box of spares.
Give away price
SET
post 2/6
25/.
ms*
OH PAINT
toss {(<&
oil PAINT f®Wil
s*.
20,000 SATISFIED
CUSTOMERS Have Bought
HIGH GLOSS GENUINE
"SUPA-KOTE"
(Reg.)
INTERIOR
EXTERIOR
OIL
PAINT
Complete satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded in full.
High gloss finish. Full bodied
ready mixed. Tested and
proved throughout Australia.
All wanted colors.
Cream, White, light and Mid
Stone, Mid and light Green,
Chocolate, French Grey, and the
ever-popular “Roofing Bed.”
“Cover much more for much
less” with “Supa-Kote.”
4 GAL.
DRUMS
JUST
£5
Add 3/6 drum cartage to rail.
“FOB A BETTER. COAT—
YOU’II USE SUPA-KOTE.”
SGAIX.
DRUMS
BALM
”
BED
OXIDE
9
£5
Add 3/6 drum cartage to rail
ť
Sttrp/us Pfcposafs
Stores p*y- Ltd.,
439PfJTST c*f>. CAMPBELL ST.
SYOH6Y At A 7308
NO C.O.D.
PLEASE ADD
EXCHANGE
TO CHEQUES


-0
\
vv
if
O ..v
i\
ji #Mi< ,1 t «,*V ; :ij
li
na a
ttLH
»
IP m
’ •,’ ’..jS
£t !
.v,/; '
:S1
'V^
1
;■•? -
,
‘.- i
10
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
