

THE HOUSE
hj
OP SEPPELT
PRODUCERS 'OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
Short-story: “P FOR PETER”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3896
Wednesday, October 13, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
OLD ENCLAMD LIVES ON
IN SHREWSBURY
VISITORS to Britain in search of the pic-
turesque and the medieval invariably go to
Shrewsbury, the county town of Shropshire—
a county which remains virtually untouched
by the demands of modern progress and
industry.
Shrewsbury (pronounced “Shrewsbury”) owes
its origin to its magnificent situation in a wide
horseshoe bend of the River Severn. It is set
proudly on a hill with distant views of the
mountains of Central Wales and southward to
the bold outline of famous Wenlock Edge. The
chief feature of the town is its noble skyline
of towers and spires which arouse the keenest
expectations. It does not take long for the
newly arrived visitor to discover how amply
these expectations are fulfilled.
Hie peculiar charm of Shrewsbury lies in
the number of its ancient black and white tim-
bered houses and its venerable coaching inns,
with their memories of Dickens, Pepys, de
Quincey and Dr. Johnson, In the words of
Charles Dickens, who visited Shrewsbury—
“From the windows I can look all downhill and
slantwise at the crookedest black-and-white
houses, all of many shapes except straight
shapes.”
In all the main streets, as well as in the by-
ways, there are superb examples of the charac-
teristic style of Tudor architecture, with their
overhanging upper storeys and beautifully
carved oak beams.
One of Shrewsbury’s proudest possessions is
Ireland’s Mansion, shown in the accompanying
illustration. It is a four-gabled Elizabethan
masterpiece built in 1575 by Robert Ireland,
whose coat-of-arms, six fleur-de-lis, is carved
on the beams. A notable feature of this
splendid black and white building is the remark-
able variety of contour and pattern which has
been obtained merely by the use of straight
timbers and the variegated oriel windows.
Owing to its position near the Welsh Border,
Shrewsbury was of great military importance
during the 13th and 14th centuries when there
was hardly a period without fighting between
the Welsh and the English. Consequently the
town suffered many sieges and much plunder-
ing and was one of the principal bones of
contention. It was there in 1403, after the
Battle of Shrewsbury, that the body of Hotspur
was exhibited for three days so that all might
know that the hated rival of Henry IV was
dead at last. By the 16th century the perpetual
warfare between the English and the Welsh
had subsided, and Shrewsbury became an
important centre of the wool trade. The pros-
perity of those days is reflected in such mag-
nificent buildings as Ireland’s Mansion.


Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy y(
books for you. Write now to BOUiv
HUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Barling Pom ,
Sydney. Quick service moderate charges.
The RedPage
THE AMERICAN NOVEL
It has often seemed to one reviewer
(maybe too often) worth remarking how
surprising it is that Henry Lawson wrote
before Ernest Hemingway: allowing lor
differences of temperament the bareness
of many of their stories, and their con-
centration on what was said and what
was done, make interesting parallels, and
suggest some common ancestry. In one’s
almost complete ignorance of American
writing, one has often put Hemingway at
the door of the tough-guy detective
school; and it is pleasing to find that this
ignorance has been shared by modern
American writers themselves. In Rebels
and Ancestors: The American Novel,
1890-1915, by Maxwell Geismar (W. H.
Allen), the chapter of conclusions says:
We know that the development of
modern [American] literature was continu-
ous from the western realists of the 1890 s;
and Maggie, Sister Carrie and McTeague
marked the ascendancy of the movement by
the early 1900’s. That was the true opening
of the period for which the literature of
the 1920’s was the flowering and, speaking
technically, the moment of decline. This
perspective helps to clear up some of the
puzzling elements in our literature between
the wars; while the impression of the novel-
ists, poets and essayists of the later period
that they were beginners and innovators
(including their “historian” H. L. Mencken)
was due mainly to an ignorance of their
own historical roots. They were innovators,
to be sure, in the area of technique and the
expression of personal sensibility the final
point in any literary or aesthetic develop-
ment.
Five long and thorough essays lead up
to this conclusion, on Frank Norris (1870-
1902), Stephen Crane (1871-1900), Jack
(John Griffith) London (1876-1916), Ellen
(Anderson Gholson) Glasgow (1874-1945)
and Theodore (Herman Albert) Dreiser
(1871-1945).
For instance, reading to-day of ‘ the
novel which became a cornerstone of the
new ‘realism’ in American fiction and
established his position as the master of
blood and wounds —the brilliant historian
of war and manhood,’’ who would not
think of Hemingway? But here Mr.
Geismar is writing about Stephen Crane’s
The Red Badge of Courage, published in
1895, of which Joseph Hergesheimer also
said: “Thereafter all novels about war
must be different; the old pretentious
attack was for ever obliterated.”
Or where in writing would you date a
novel criticised thus?: —
At night, stripping herself, she slept upon
the gold pieces, “taking a strange and
ecstatic pleasure in the touch of the smooth
flat pieces the length of her entire body.”
This was her dominant and only desire
which replaced the lost satisfaction of a
husband, a home or children... .Almost as
though she were young and beautiful and
tempting again, he remembers “her small,
prim mouth, her narrow blue eyes, her
black mane of hair” in his fantasies of whip-
ping her, of “making her dance” in order
to get at her money One also notices
the “objective,” cold and quite mechanical
description of her death after she had been
beaten into insensibility by the author’s pro-
tagonist and lay face downward in a pool
of blood. “Toward morning she died with
a rapid series of hiccoughs that sounded
like a piece of clockwork running down.”
This is part of Geismar’s account of
Norris’s masterpiece, McTeague, the story
of a dentist who married his patient,
published in 1899. Then there was Jack
London writing monosyllabic prose:
“The man looked down at his hands in
order to locate them, and found them hang-
ing at the ends of his arms.... He had an
impression that they hung like weights at
the ends of his arms, but when he tried
to run the impression down, he could not
find it.”
And there was Ellen Glasgow writing
about the South before Faulkner, and,
says Mr. Geismar, better. But it is when
Mr. Geismar comes to Dreiser that he
is most satisfying, laying down the rec.
carpet and celebrating the triumphs of
an emperor. For where his other novel-
ists may be said, without political over-
tones, to have seen and described the vic-
tims caught in the world’s web of those
times, Dreiser alone went to the heart
of the web and saw and described the
spider, in his two books The Financier
and The Titan, the story of Cowperwood
and the millionaires who changed Ameri-
can society, a trilogy not completed until
the posthumous publication of the inferior
novel The Stoic.
The Dreiser study shows us the broad
range of this tragic artist, whose work
covered the whole gamut of American
society and was informed with a brood-
ing sense of what Mencken found at the
base of all great art, a sense of “the
meaninglessness of life”:
There was nothing harsh or cynical in
the early work of this so-called immoral
and ruthless “Naturalist.” By the law of
survival, Carrie was right and fortunate,
Dreiser stated; by the law of religions and
society she was bad... .But perhaps it was
precisely the accents of candor and humility
that infuriated the‘uneasy conscience of
McKinley’s America; while maybe, in
literary .circles, it was Dreiser’s lack of
finesse about “society” in the 1890’s (in a
drama that opened in a saloon and closed
in a slum) that contributed as much to the
ostracising of his work as his lack of moral
censure.
But to come again to conclusions, and
the effect of this earlier school on the
between-war flowering:
No wonder the suppression of The Genius
in 1915 became a historic event in the
following years. It drew to its cause the
energy and conviction of the best literary
talents of the period The brilliant young
critic Randolph Bourne was correct when
he estimated Dreiser’s significance as the
American novelist who had most felt the
importance of sexual love, and “our only
novelist who had tried to plumb it far
below.”
To what purpose our times have used
the freedom won in that battle may be
inferred from Mr. Geismar’s view of
Dreiser as an artist who saw the complete
picture, as against the brilliant modern
technicians who used only as much as
they wanted for their effects:
But, while H. L. Mencken was directing
all his fire at the puritan “kultur,” Dreiser
himself, its chief victim in the literary area,
was concerned with fundamental social
values and the texture of ordinary life in
the United States. Among the members of
the Middle Generation, indeed, both Menc-
ken and Willa Gather usually ignored or
obscured the true social and economic
issues in their work, while Sinclair Lewis
described them, after Babbitt, in increasingly
partial and superficial terms. Perhaps only
Sherwood Anderson, in his own vein,
approached the solidity and honesty of the
older view. In the dawning epoch of Scott
Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway the split
between the American artist and his society
had become a chasm—or abyss.
From Heinemann, as this is going to
press, comes Stephen Crane, an Omnibus,
and a good one: The Red Badge of
Courage ; Maggie, a Girl of . the Streets ;
The Open Boat —war-tales, Western tales,
Bowery tales; and a few poems and
selected letters—edited. by R. Wooster
Stallman.
A Sydney Sleuth
Unless people like Vince Kelly put out
collections like The Shadow ; The Amaz-
ing Exploits of Frank Fahy (Angus and
Robertson) from time to time, Sydney-
siders might not realise what a city of
ingenious wickedness they live in. They
would be disappointed if their evening
papers let a day go by without some
murder, theft or rape dredged from the
courts ; but somehow this doesn’t seem
to count until such an expert as Mr. Kelly
makes a skilful selection, and presents
it to us in a book in mass.
Lucci the engineer who made a tin-
opener that would rip through half-inch
steel plate ; Cameron Bean, whose wife
had the shaving-things ready for him to
murder his moustache when he returned
from robbing a Coogee bank, but opened
the door to find the police instead;
George Rocake who dressed as a hard-
faced spinster, Winifred Wilson, to pay
rude addresses to women in their public
retiring-rooms ; the Kwong Tsengs, who
imported counterfeit shillings from China
to cash in Sydney banks; Arthur Twible,
who manufactured false florins in a
boarded-up Redfern shop ; an unnamed
forger who forged postage-stamps in the
shed of a house so near the home of
Police Commissioner Mac Kay that it just
didn’t seem feasible ; the conductors of
the Ambrose Sweep Lottery who were
honorable in everything but legality;
Duncan and O’Loughlin, who carried
heavy safes out of buildings ; the basher-
gangs, which operated like a drilled army,
with Murdoch as their general—these and
many more of the cases Sergeant Fahy
brought to a head have happened since
the First World War ; and yet to the pre-
sent reviewer they are all news.
One may be pardoned, however, for
not knowing about Sergeant Fahy;
remaining in the background was his
forte for thirty years from 1919, when
Sergeant Mac Kay, later Commissioner,
picked him for the job. In the guernsey
of the barrowman, in the rags of the
tramp, in the suit of clothes that turned
inside out into a different suit that Com-
missioner Mac Kay had made for him;
on foot, in trams and taxis or in the
knife-grinder’s box with peepholes that
made a sidecar to a motor-cycle, Fahy
trailed criminals and watched them day
and night.
Unknown to other policemen, unknown
to the Government itself, he went other
people’s ways; indeed, two of his best
stories are of the time when he was
shadowing Duncan the safe-robber, and
the local police twice threw him in jail
as a suspected person, and of the time
on the same case when he was getting into
the train with the crooks, and gave a
hurried message for a constable to pass
on to headquarters. The constable,
naturally enough, took little notice of an
order given by a disreputable member of
the public, and only for his mentioning
it on his return to the station as an
instance of what a cop has to put up with,
the message might not have arrived, and
Fahy would have lacked backing for the
arrest.
The reader o£ detective stories will find
some truths in these real-hte stories tnai
would never be allowed in better-class
fiction; Fahy had had a drink with
rrs , • n . and
Twible the comet, for inst , .
Twible, taking pity on his poverty, naa
given him a counterfeit florin, and had
actually recognised him £rom ha ™ B S
him as a barrowman from whom he naa
bought fruit. Yet, when Fahy had closed
in on him, and was preparing for a police
• . Dorifoep ctmr, In tb<=> mike of
raid on the Redfcrn sh p g
a workman fixing the entrance to a man
hole, Twible strolled over suspiciously,
onvp Him a oioarette lit it for him and,
gave mm a Clgare te 111 ll lorm
satisfied that all was well, returned
the shop.
At this point at which one would
throw a thriller’ down in disgust, one
takes to Mr. Kelly’s story with renewed
2est ,
A Little Whale-book
A little 150-page book for children
which a middle-aged child has just been
reading with rapt attention, The Adven-
ture of Whaling, by Frank Crisp (Mac-
millan), has something of the charm or
such great little monographs as Cocker-
ell on Bookbinding and Gill on Typo-
graphy ; it is by an expert practitioner ;
it is always right on its subject; its factual
exposition can soothe and concentrate a
mind wearied by the nervous psychology
of novels and the endless argumentation
of what is very properly called “general
reading.”
In his few pages, Mr, Crisp runs
through the history of whaling from the
days when Eskimos used to shoo herds
of them ashore, or jump from a kayak on
to their backs to drive sharpened sticks
into their blowholes to kill them of suffo-
cation ; he describes the earlier concen-
tration on the Greenland “right” whale a
“right” whale was a stubby type of
whalebone-whale as distinguished from a
toothed sperm-whale—and how they first
tied drogues to their harpoons to slow
the whale down, and then used very long
ropes and let the whale tow their boats.
His illustrator, Winston Megoran, gives
copious illustrations of drogues, methods
of housing and running ropes, kinds of
harpoons and flensing-knives, and
developments of crow’s-nests, the highest
being within a few feet of the top of the
fore-topgallant mast.
No one worried much about the sperm-
whale, the largest species of which used
to grow to 120 ft., the biggest animal ever,
until in 1700 one was cast up on a Nan-
tucket beach, and the Yanks found its
oil was better; so they took the added
risk of chasing this more dangerous
adversary, one of which could pay the
cost of an expedition. When women gave
up reinforced corsets, whalebone no
longer had any value, and “right” whale
or sperm-whale is all one now.
Sperm-whaling has been responsible
for “hard-case” and “salt-junk” ; terms
coined by olddime deep-sea whalers who
cut the whale up for storage while it
lay alongside the ship at sea ; they began
by chopping off the huge head:
The lower part of the forehead on the
bony platform of the cranium was called
the “white horse meat.” Above it was an
oily portion known as the “junk,” and the
top part of the whale’s forehead, in which
was the reservoir of spermaceti oil, was
called “the case.” To this day seamen
refer to meat as salt-horse; salt-beef or
-pork goes by the name of salt-junk, and
when a tough fellow is referred to as a
hard-case we can be sure where the expres-
sion came from.
Mr. Crisp gives the various steps in
the development of the harpoon-gun—at
one stage, instead of having an exploding
bomb at the end of the harpoon, they
proposed to load the lead with prussic
acid; next, sulphuric acid was used in a
tube that splintered on impact and set
off the grenade-head.
The modern whale-catcher is a com-
pact, 500-ton, 2700-horse-powered, diesel-
engined job with a speed of 17 knots and
a catwalk from the bridge to the harpoon-
gun so that the captain, who is generally
also the gunner, can get the harpoon in
and then get quickly back to the bridge
to “play” the whale (he is nowadays a
£4OOO- to £5OOO-a-year-man). The rod-
fishing term is justified; the rope to the
harpooned whale is run through a pulley
on the mast before it is taken to the
mechanical winch ; and although the mast
does not bend like a rod, the pulley on
it is roped to powerful springs in the hold
which give it the “play” a fishing-rod
would have and prevent sudden snapping
of the line ; the size of the boat, of course,
soon wearing down the whale.
The catcher-boats bring their whales to
the big factory-ships, capable of accumu-
lating single cargoes worth £3,000,000
(sterling):
There are four grades of oil. The first
grade goes to make margarine, and the
lower grades are used for the manufacture
of lard substitutes, soaps and industrial
greases. Sperm oil is used mainly as a
lubricant. Spermaceti is still wanted for
the manufacture of candles, and also for
cosmetics and medicinal purposes. A solu-
tion left after the oil is cooked out of the
blubber is called glue water, and this findi
a use as a base for glue.
Besides oil extracted from the whale-
blubber, there are in these times many
valuable subsidiary products, such as frozen,
salted or canned whalemeat and blubber,
meat and bone-meal, dehydrated whalemeat,
salted or frozen whale-liver and liver-flakes,
and meat and liver extracts. Medicinal and
chemical by-products are manufactured
from the heart, liver, tongue and various
glands, and from one of these extracts it is
hoped to develop a cure for rheumatoid
arthritis. Whale-liver oil is said to have
a much higher vitamin content than halibut
or cod-liver oil.
Nowadays the run. of rope nearest the
harpoon is nylon; in 1952, 32,575 whales
were killed by pelagic whalers in the
Antarctic ; even after World War I,
scientific observers were wondering how
long whales would last; there are now
more than 40 floating factories; in 1946,
an International Whaling Commission
was set up, and a bureau of statistics, to
survey and administer whale-fishing.
Reviewed Briefly
I The Betrayers: Ruth Chatterton (Aus-
alasian Publishing Co.: Harrap). The
lautiful former Hollywood-star writes a
umpetent novel, and with a shrewd
iblic-relations eye to the McCarthy
ix-up; for, look you, the preliminaries
: “Is he a Com. or isn’t he?” resolve
to a court-scene where the brilliant
oman-lawyer gets the brilliant scientist
hom she thinks she loves off on a
large of passing on those atomic
;crets; the old vulturine accusing Sena-
>r manoeuvres hastily to eat his words
ad then (surprise!) she finds to her
orror that boy-friend has been guilty all
le time; she gives him 24 hours, know-
ig that he knows what he has to do.
ut Miss Chatterton does not let the
ulturine Senator get away with it, either ;
e turns out to be as much to blame
ir mucking-up with his public accusa-
ons the secret plans of the F. 8.1.
* * * *
The Well of the Silent Harp: James
larke (Collins). At last, the last of this
ve-novel life of Robert Burns, to be
pawn complete as Immortal Memory.
his last effort is in as bad taste as any-
hing that preceded it; for instance, a
ew paragraphs on the execution of Marie
Antoinette are headed; “Death of an
JnPrincipled Prostitute” —to whom such
isgusting brutality in print may recom-
mend it let it be recommended.
« ♦ * *
Trial of John Thomas Straffen ; Letitia
"airfield and Eric P. Fullbrook (Hodge),
dumber 80 of the Notable British Trials
eries, this is a record of the two trials
the first ending on its second day with
lismissal of the jury) in 1952 before Mr,
ustice Cassels of the aforesaid Straffen
or the throttling of Linda Bowyer while
ic was an escapee from Broadmooi
nstitution for Criminal Lunatics—i.e., he
lad done it before. The main point of
nterest in this case was the degree of
mental deficiency necessary to a plea of
nsanity. The jury pointedly withheld
mention of insanity from their verdict;
he judge concurred and sentenced Strat-
:en to death. The Home Secretary
-eprieved him. With appendices of reports
md memoranda on future arrangements
for keeping inmates in.
* * * *
Sayonara: James Michener (Seeker
and Warburg). A novel of American
servicemen who tried to marry Japanese
women; it has, alas, all the marks of a
quickie ; a thin string of events instead or
a plot, and, in spite of the wrench of the
officer tearing himself from his loving
Japanese dancer, and the pathetic suicide
of the bad lad deprived of his one true
love and her suicide with him, it leaves
the feeling that a steam-hammer has been
brought to crack an egg. From an un-
known author it would seem not baa,
from the author of Return to p aradis
and Tales of the South Pacific, not at an
good.


£Bk
Smarten your kitchen • make cookiny a joy
with Lane *s new
3
burner conker!
This new Lane s cooker has a full-size oven and three giant-size, wickless, blue flame burners to give intense heat with economical
kerosene consumption. The cooking plate is table-high— 33in. from the floor. The regulating handles are placed to
eliminate stooping when regulating the flame. The portable oven has two handles for lifting
from the stove when not required. Pastel cream. Stove black facings, oven in black, complete, £3O/10/-.
• ■ ■ f, >
7\
*
MU'.
0 •
111
IT?.
Meat Safe. Collapsible, metal and per-
forated. 13in. x 13in. x 16in„ with
removable shelf. Hook for hanging.
Well-fitting door, Priced at only 42/9.
Space Saver. For refrigerators. In
washable plastic. Saves storage problems.
Gives an extra 20 percent, of room in
your ice chest or ’frig. At only 87/6.
Plastic Container. Made from seamless
plastic. Screw top. Ideal for storage of
liquids in refrigerators or for use when
camping. 1 gallon 23/6. J gall. 13/6.
Cocktail Shaker. Made from plastic.
For mixing batter, fruit juice, powdered
milk and omelettes. Can also be used
as an extractor. Priced at only 9/11.
m—m
m
n
m
m
Collapsible Ironing Board. Folds quickly into an easy'to'handle storage
unit. 4ft. 6in. long. Reinforced with steel braces. These are specially 47/6.
ONE
■ j •<
80951. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNE
OD
-'-t
<<v<aVAl V
■
' n v
%
> •-V •
v&Ot;
H
Dispenser. Unbreakable plastic with cut'
off pourer. For sauces, etc., at 4/11.
Heavy Plastic Food Server. For
daintily serving masb potatoes, rice, ice
cream, etc. 5/11 each.
Pressure Lantern. English Tilley. It’s
stormproof. Vitreous enamelled, burner
hood. Easy to operate. Only £6/1/-.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
g
ĝ


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 13, 1954
VoL 75—No, 3896
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A HEAP OF RUINS
Whatever other result it may have, Dr. Evatt’s inter-
vention before the Royal Commission on Espionage
has wrecked the Federal “Labor” party as it has
existed up to the last month or so. It is a heap of
ruins which can’t be put together again under its
present leadership*.
And any party which wishes to serve under Dr.
Evatt after the devastating piece of surgery which
the counsel for Security, Sir Garfield Barwick, did
on what he called the Doctor’s “reckless and baseless”
charges is a glutton for punishment. Counsel showed
clearly what the judges have accepted for some time,
and made plain in their comments and analyses, that
Dr. Evatt’s charges of forgery of Document J, which
was supposed to have been fabricated to damage the
“Labor” party, had no foundation except imagination ;
also that they were made before he had seen the
document —in fact, before anybody except the commis-
sioners and counsel assisting them and the security-
officers concerned had examined it. He showed that
it did not, in fact, reflect on either the “Labor” party
or its leader or even on his two secretaries, whose
mention was made the pretext of his appearance in
court. Barwick, Q.C., demonstrated that the Com-
munists made no accusations of forgery until Dr. Evatt
uttered his charge, and that Rupert Lockwood, to whom
all the evidence pointed as the undoubted author of the
“farrago of fact, falsity and filth,” changed his story
after Dr. Evatt had appeared to accord with the latter’s
allegations.
That very large sections of “Labor” entirely dis-
agree with all Dr. Evatt’s actions has been made clear
beyond doubt. His own disinclination to have the
matter discussed in caucus has been patent through his
manoeuvring of debates so as to render impossible
effective reference to his activities. And this has
been followed by the threatening attitude which he
last week adopted to all who should dare to differ
from him: by his attacks on party members and the
introduction of the sectarian issue in a manner which
makes it impossible for the party to hang together.
His attacks in the statement issued on October 6
was aimed directly at a group of members who may
or may not be the representatives of Catholic Action,
but who could undoubtedly have been able to accept
and support him to the hilt in all his policies save
for one thing.
They have differed from him only because of his
repeated expeditions to the rescue of the Communist
party whenever it has been in difficulty, and they have
differed publicly as a group from him on no other
issue whatever, though one of them during the election
campaign dissented from his attitude to the means-
test, in which he was in agreement with a number of
others who had not his moral courage. This member,
W. M. Bourke, has since been so outspoken against
Dr. Evatt’s recent actions that it is politically impos-
sible for him to continue in the party under the present
leadership, and several other persons outside the caucus
and sharing in the control of “Labor” policy appear
to be in the same position, but in conflict with others
again.
Mr. D. Lovegrove, Victorian secretary of the
A.L.P., who is certainly no Catholic Actionist, saic
that Victorian “Labor” considers that it should “not
be made the victim of a diversionary tactic designed
to provide scapegoats* for a situation for which the
party is not responsible, and indeed in which the
party was not in any way consulted.” And he added
that months before the Petrov disclosures a member
of the party had made certain allegations against
Dr. Evatt’s staff, that the party had supported the
appointment of the Petrov commission, and that
“through its properly constituted executives it made
no charges of a conspiracy against the Labor party.”
C. W. Anderson, secretary of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P., on the other hand, supports Dr. Evatt and
declares that Laurence Short, secretary of the
Federated Ironworkers, is guilty of “sabotage” in
attacking him, while Dr. Evatt says he is guilty of
“McCarthyism,” and the Sydney branch of the
Federated Ironworkers has deserted its own official in
Dr. Evatt’s favor.
Mr. Dougherty, of the A.W.U., is for Evatt, and
declares that he believes the bulk of his members will
also support him. In this he differs from the St. Kilda
branch of the A.L.P., which calls for the leader’s retire-
ment from office. These are fair samples of conflicting
attitudes.
In the background, of course, are Mr, Ward and
Mr. Calwell, licking their lips. Ward, an admirer of the
Soviet of long standing, has now come out for Evatt,
and against Catholic Action. Calwell perforce is lying
low. He is in a more ticklish position.
The so-called “Labor” party has, in fact, ceased
to be a party. It has become an aggregation of the
shipwrecked whose captain has blown up the ship.
There is no room for jubilation among “Labor’s”
antagonists. A strong Opposition is as essential to the
proper working of Parliament as a strong Government.
And if there is not a strong Opposition one is apt to
form within the structure of the ruling party, a natural
tendency which seems to have been exhibiting itself
in the present Parliament. The Opposition, being
leaderless, has been unable to oppose, and a
section of Government back-benchers, normally kept
in hand by the need to array themselves against a
common enemy, have become recklessly vocal.
Meanwhile, the Australian electors, who are
becoming sick and tired of the squabbling of Australian
politics, are being faced with a position, not unique, that
the leadership of parties is either expiring quickly
through the advancing age of party-heads without
successors of tonnage in the offing, or breaking up
through faction. In this country the tendency of the
press and public opinion to hit savagely at any head
which rises a little above the ruck is deterring men of
ability and sane outlook from coming forward in
politics, and the future in all parties, so far as out-
standing ability goes, appears to be a desert.
It is not a pleasant prospect or one which augurs
well for the party system of government, which can
only continue to exist in this modem age on the basis
of modernised and able management.
One country alone seems to have achieved this —
Canada —which has secured permanence in govern-
ment and a standard of Ministerial capacity without
showiness unequalled anywhere else in the world.
The diligent Dominion sets an example which the
rest of the world’s Parliaments could follow with great
advantage. It produces a business administration run
on party lines with Ministers properly trained through
experience ; and it operates on an ethical plane far
above that of politics in Australia.
Production Still the Need
Federal Minister for Labor Harold Holt is
reported as advocating the establishment of a Pro-
ductivity Council, presumably on the lines of that
operating in the United Kingdom. Whether such a
body is needed in this country is a matter for debate,
but there can be no denying that Australia does need
added productivity, though this may not now be so
obvious as it was in the immediate post-war years,
when shortages and blackmarkets made startlingly
clear the need for filling the gap—brought about by the
war—between demand and supply of consumer-goods.
Not so apparent, because it did not directly touch
the everyday life of the people, was the corresponding
gap in capital-goods, in the long run an even greater
threat to living-standards than the temporary incon-
venience caused by consumer-goods shortage.
Today, with the gap in consumer-goods balance
almost plugged, the need for high production is not so
widely realised, though there is a universal demand, or
at any rate desire, for a higher standard of living. To
the average Australian a higher living-standard is
summed-up in higher wages for fewer hours. This
may be right enough for an individual, but when the
higher wages and fewer hours are applied to the whole
community the fallacy is apparent—unless a third
factor is introduced, the combination of the other two
will mean not a higher but a lower standard, since no
amount of extra money can buy extra goods or services
where none exist. The third factor is increased produc-
tion, which can come even with reduced hours pro-
vided they are accompanied by increased efficiency, a
greater degree of mechanisation and above all a
greater will to produce.
In the past 100 years the working-week in Aus-
tralia has been reduced from 60 hours to 40 hours, yet
not only have nominal wages increased enormously, but
there has also been a steady improvement in real wages,
put by one authority as high as 300 per cent. The
trade-union movement and the political “Labor” party
which has been imposed upon it claim the complete
credit for this improvement in what they are pleased to
call “the conditions of the common man.” The claim
is somewhat over-ambitious.
The rise in real wages—in living-standards —which
has accompanied the rise in money-wages and the
fall in working-hours can only have come as a result
of improvement in output; in other words, the hands
and brains of the common man now produce more in
the working-week than they did in the far longer week
a century ago. How much of the credit for this must
be apportioned to improved technique and machinery,
how much to more efficient management, and how
much to elements within the control of the wage-
earner is a problem for experts to theorise on, but one
thing is certain —none of it can be justly claimed by
the trade-union movement.
Organised “Labor” in Australia has never urged
the importance of output in improving living-standards.
Always the emphasis has been on more money and
less work ; never has it been part of “Labor” policy to
suggest to unionists that they have anything to gain
from increased production. Rather has the reverse
been the case; many a young Australian has the
stagnation-breeding slogan “Don’t work yourself out
of a job” ingrained in his thinking before he has even
worked himself into a job. It is this habit of mind
that must be changed if we are to aspire to the living-
standards accepted as normal in America, as seems to
be the trend.
The British Productivity Council is the successor
to the Anglo-American Productivity Council formed
six years ago at the suggestion of the late Stafford
Cripps and Paul Hoffman, former leader of the
Economic Co-operation Administration. Under the
auspices of the original body “productivity-teams”
representing management and workers in various
industries in Britain were sent across the Atlantic to
study conditions in their corresponding industries in
America. The idea was to find out the reason for the
very substantial difference in man-hour output in the
two countries. Scores of teams covering every con-
siderable industry in Britain participated in the scheme
and there was a remarkable degree of unanimity in
their findings. The general conclusion reached was that
after making allowance for the great natural resources
of the United States and for the high degree of
mechanisation; for comparative skills and for
accumulated “know-how,” the real explanation for the
high productivity of all industries in that country lay
in psychological factors; in the approach of the
average American to his job. The teams found
throughout the whole structure of American industry
an unqualified acceptance of the fact that there can
be no improvement in living-standards except by
greater production.
The team from the cotton-spinning industry which
found that British mills took two-and-a-half times as
long as U.S. mills to produce a given quantity of yarn
reported:
Every employee, from president to operative, is
production-minded, owing to the realisation that high
productivity means cost-reduction and survival of the
firm in a competitive market. Every American is
aware that his high standard of living depends on
high productivity, not only high productivity by the
other man, but by himself also.
The building industry (output per man-hour approxi-
mately 50 per cent, higher in U.S. than in Britain) was
told by its team:
Acceptance of the need for high productivity as
an essential factor in industrial life is universal in
America, and it permeates the will and actions of the
operatives as well as of the professional and em-
ployer groups. ,
The team from the pressed-metals industry, while
not going into figures, said “that output per man-
hour in America is greater than in Britain is not
disputed,” and commented:
Into the American worker has been Inculcated
the desire and definite urge to reach out for those
things that only become available to the man who
works hard enough to gain them. He realises that
high productivity benefits everyone and responds
accordingly.
This last quotation illustrates very well the gulf
between the attitude of official Labor in America and
in Australia. Here the worker is adjured to reach out
for what he wants whether he has earned it or not.
His professional advisers persistently urge him to
demand his “rights” ; they seldom if ever remind him
that rights imply corresponding duties. A proper
balance must be struck if Australian living-standards
are to be maintained, let alone improved. A com-
munity which places all the emphasis upon its rights
and neglects its duties has no more chance of continued
prosperity than a slave-State in which duty is the only
criterion and the worker has no rights at all.
Hunger and War
“In the ACT”: Immediate and potential explosives
in Asia are helping to keep the world on edge, but
perhaps the grimmest factor is one so well known that
it is often ignored. Millions of people in Asia are
hungry today, and more will be if any large-scale
warfare takes men from their farms and devastates
large productive areas. A former director-general of
the U.N. World Health Organisation, Dr. Brock
Chisholm, said in San Francisco the other day that
the most dangerous aspect of the food problem was
that “never again are millions of people going to die
peacefully of starvation as they have in the past.” He
stressed that starvation appeared certain to continue,
because there was no possibility that the world could
provide enough food for its rapidly growing popula-
tion, and that the situation was explosive in both
China and India. In China the people had grasped
at Communism and war, and in India the hungry were
getting highly resentful.
Dr. Chisholm’s solution was education leading to
world co-operation, which he felt was the only alterna-
tive to a type of world war which would leave few
survivors. The co-operation, he felt, would have to
include the feeding of the hungry areas from those
parts of the world which produced more food than
they consumed. This, of course, is the glib reply
usually produced by planners confronted with dis-
parities in production and consumption, but the cabled
reports may not have done full justice to his statements.
There certainly seems to be a case for the Unitea
Nations to have a look at the position irrespective ot
the politics of the countries involved—the position in
China can probably be assessed fairly accurately by
the experts—and to initiate discussions to prevent mass
suicide of the race. Rising living-standards can provi
the greatest check to seemingly uncontrolled popula-
tion-expansion, and in this regard the Colombo
forms a tiny example of what is required on an
immense scale. ,
Any effective help, however, would seem to need
such massive contributions from the well-fed. countn
that their own living-standards would rocwtably 1 ’
It is hard to imagine politicians in North Anwaicao
in Australia, for example, campaigning on a P lattor d
calling for longer working-hours, lower
higher taxes in order that millions
Chinese should have more food and 8 t^at
Perhaps Dr. Chisholm will provide an
problem. Up to the present he doesn t appear to
offered one.


STARTING TO SMASH THE CROCKERY


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bread on the Waters
In the matter of salary-increase Victorian
Parliamentarians adopted a different
course from that followed in the New
South Wales Parliament last time the
Cahill Government, without much oppo-
sition from the Opposition, decided it
was time for a rise. The Macquarie-street
legislators simply voted themselves a
rise; their cousins in Spring-street ap-
pointed a committee outside Parliament
to make recommendations on the subject.
Why this was done is a question on which
experts differ. It may be that Cain and
co. were not game to do the job themselves
with an election under new boundaries
coming up within 12 months ; it may be
they were too modest to vote themselves
what they thought they were worth; it
may be . . . well, anyway, whatever the
reason was, they agreed to cast their bread
upon the waters in the hope that it might
come back buttered.
The committee handed, in its recom-
mendations last week; they covered
Ministerial salaries as well as rank-and-
filers’. The Premier, it is suggested, should
receive £6OOO a year; his deputy £4700.
Ministers should get £3600, plus an
“electorate-allowance” of from £4OO to
£BOO, depending on locality. For the
Speaker and the President of the Legis-
lative Council £3250 is recommended, with
£2650 for the chairman of committees.
Heads of Opposition parties will also
benefit—-Leader of the Opposition, £4300 ;
his deputy, £2600, and the Leader of the
Country party, £2900.
The committee recommended a basic
rate of £l6OO for private members, plus
an electorate-allowance of £4OO for city
members, £6OO for urban, £7OO for those
from inner country areas and £BOO for
more distant parts. This means a mini-
mum salary of £2OOO, to which must be
added in the case of urban and country
members £3 3s. a day for time spent in
Melbourne during sittings.
The composite smile that beamed out
of Spring-street last week signified that
the bread had come back not only
buttered but liberally sprinkled with hun-
dreds-and-thousands.
Germany and the Future
The final curtain was rung down on the
London conference on German rearma-
ment and sovereignty during the week
amid the usual sort of jubilation—except
from sour persons like Mr. Molotov and
Lord Beaverbrook. The decisions were,
of course, subject to ratification by the
Parliaments involved, and getting some of
them to ratify will be a precarious
business. Though Germany is
hastening to complete its assent, M.
Mendes-France will this week “stake the
life of his Government” on the precarious
thread of a confidence-motion.
The Powers —Britain, France, Canada,
Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Luxem-
bourg and the United States —have asked
West Germany to provide an army of
500,000 and a coastal navy for European
defence in return for admission to Nato
and an expanded Brussels Pact organisa-
tion. The army is to be controlled by
Nato command, and a control-agency is
to be set up to limit the arms-production
of Brussels Pact countries. Britain is
committed to leave 120,000 soldiers on the
Continent till 1998, and thus involves her-
self by agreement, according to the
Edenish line, in the politics of the Con-
tinent till the end of the century.
The control commission which is to
police armaments, from atomic weapons
down to trouser-buttons apparently, will
have power only so long as the individual
nations are not firmly determined to
break the agreement. If any outlaw does
there is nothing the rest can do short of
war or sanctions to prevent it. And when
it comes to the point of imminent threat
no national Government is likely to be
inclined —or its people likely to allow it
to be inclined —to have the levels of its
defence preparation settled externally.
All nations concerned subscribed to a
resolution recording the view that the
North Atlantic Treaty should be re-
garded as “of indefinite duration,” and
the United States will join Britain in
holding forces in Europe. The Western
Big Three nations —Britain, the United
States and France—-have agreed to grant
sovereignty to Germany under limiting
conditions as to defence.
Dr. Adenauer wasted no time in hav-
ing the scheme ratified, securing the pas-
sage of his measure through the German
Parliament before the end of the week on
a show of hands. And West Germany
has begun, with typical Teutonic energy
and efficiency, to put into force the
arrangements, taking it for granted that
they will be ratified by other Powers. A
start on the military defence has been
made by the announcement of steps for
the immediate enlistment of training
cadres of 150,000, to be followed by an
intake of conscripts l 3 months after the
inception of the scheme. Germany has
a free hand in the development of atomic
weapons.
There is something reassuring and
novel in the fact that Field-Marshal
Montgomery is named as the probable
trainer of the first new German Army,
but nothing comforting in the general
orientation of British policy to give first
consideration to links with Continental
countries, most of thern thoroughly un-
stable and without Governments which
can guarantee to live a year. The French
Ministry cannot even at this stage of
general rejoicing agree on the scope and
nature of the extent of arms-control. As
that question is a crucial issue, the
strength and efficiency of any enduring
pact depend on the solid support of the
nations involved as a matter of set
national policy. It would not be impos-
sible that even war could be born of the
friction likely to arise between France
and Germany in the process of trying to
implement the new agreement, and that
Britain —which, as the London ‘'Daily
Express” has said, has “sacrificed for so
much folly the historic policy of priority
for partnership with the Empire”—
should be dragged in.
Neither is it inconceivable that within
a very few years Germany, still the most
virile nation in Continental Europe, even
without East should by reason
of its larger population, energy, indus-
trial resources and know-how, be seen
drawing- those members of the Brussels
Pact who remain in its wake in some plan
the heart of which is the recapture of the
East and Berlin at any price.
The future of Europe is highly compli-
cated.
Population and Prophecy
The Commonwealth Statistician performs
two main functions; he collects statistics
and he releases them to the public. In
between the performance of these two
duties he and his staff, assisted by
machines with a liking for that sort of
thing, toss the figures back and forth
from one to another in an attempt to
find out how many tables, lists, schedules
and graphs can be devised from the one
lot of material. The results are often
astounding ; the data collected at the 1947
census lasted the bureau almost until the
staff were ready to send out the forms
for the 1954 count —and the final volume,
published in 1953, was every bit as inter-
esting as the first.
This time the Statistician has been
rather quick off the mark; a fortnight
ago he issued figures giving the popula-
tions of the capitals and the main cities
and towns; last week he released pre-
liminary figures for the six States, with,
of course, the Commonwealth total.
These show that Australia gained
1,403,881 people between the two census-
dates. These are the details:
1947. Increase. 1954.
N.S.W. .. 2,984,838 439,049 3,423,887
Vic. .. 2,054,701 393,996 2,448,697
Q’ld. .. 1,106,415 211,218 1,317,633
S.A. .. 646,073 151,734 797,807
W.A. .. 502,480 137,148 639,628
Tas. . .. 257,078 51,705 308,783
N.T. .. 10,868 5,621 16,489
A.C.T. ~ 16,905 13,410 30,315
7,579,358 1,403,881 8,983,239
The Statistician also announced that
Australia’s population passed the nine-
million mark about the middle of August.
This is a piece of information which
would have interested Sir George Reid ;
it means that a prophecy he made over
40 years ago has been proved accurate to
within a few months.
In 1912 Theodore Roosevelt, reviewing
a book of sociology, commented that the
rate of population-increase in Australia
was so slow “that even if the present rate
were maintained the population would
not double itself in the next century.”
The Bishop of London, who had recently
visited Australia and had publicly
deplored the low birthrate, expressed the
opinion that it was a question whether
in a few years Australia might cease to
be British. These criticisms brought a
protest from Sir George, who was then
High Commissioner in London. He
pointed out that owing to its low death-
rate Australia almost led the world in its
rate of population-increase, which he
placed at 16 per thousand, a rate
exceeded only by New Zealand, This
meant that, fat from taking a century
to double, the population should double
itself in 44 years.
The figures Reid quoted were for 1910,
when the population was 4,425,083.
Despite the losses of two World Wars
and the abnormally low birthrate of the
depression years —factors which did not
enter into his reckoning any more than
did the big influx of immigrants of the
past few years—Australia’s population
has doubled itself in 44 years.
Lest it be thought that this is an attempt
to prove that statisticians are unneces-
sary and that their work can be done (in
advance) by High Commissioners, it
should be mentioned that Reid got his
figures from the Commonwealth Statis-
tician of the day.
Lockwood Wrote
Document "J"
The Commission on Espionage came to
the only conclusion open to it about the
authorship of Document J, which Dr.
Evatt and the Communist counsel, Mr.
Hill, had declared to be a forgery, the
deed of a conspiracy.
Mr. Philip Evatt was left to make the address
supporting Dr. Evatt’s charges, his leader hav-
ing had his leave to appear withdrawn, and his
second leader, Mr. Sullivan, having faded out
of the case without explanation to the com-
mission after it became evident that there was
no evidence to support the accusations.
Neither Mr. Hill nor Mr. Evatt produced
any evidence whatever of either conspiracy or
forgery. And apparently after the event all
that remains of the figment of Dr. Eyatt’s wild
imaginings —if they were bona fide imaginings
—is a Melbourne newspaper-cutting suggesting,
early in 1953, that there might be some revela-
tions about the actions of the Third Secretary
(Petrov) at the Soviet Embassy, a ‘matter of
which any relevance disappeared in the light of
the evidence before the commission.
Dr. Evatt, however, for the purposes of ms
newest frantically wriggling Red-herring, accepts
it as proof positive that a vile conspiracy existed
—this time between Catholic Action and the
Security Department —to provide propaganda
material which would ruin the Labor party at
the Federal elections. Why the Catholic Action
members of the Labor party should join in this
diabolical plot to ruin their own party may be
clear to the logical thinking of an ex-Hign
Court judge, but to the ordinary mind it
scarcely seems reasonable. The ordinary mind,
however, is not coping with the desperate
problems of survival which beset that of the
Leader of the Opposition.
The addresses of Barwick, Q.C., for Security,
and Windeyer, Q.C., assisting the commission,
demolished the last rags of argument that might
have remained to hold together the Evatt-Hill
charges, which the commissioners had again
and again described as fantastic.
Sir Garfield Barwick said that charges against
the Security Service were “reckless, baseless and
not bona fide.’'' He went through the document
in a masterly analysis of its contents to prove
that the whole had been spontaneously com-
posed directly on to the typewriter by the author
to inform a foreigner, and that the whole of
it had been written by the same hand. He
pointed out that in page 35, which Dr. Evatt
alleged to have been forged by his former press-
secretary to ruin his secretaries, himself and the
Labor party, contained nothing to the detriment
of Dr. Evatt —there was something about a
visa having been held up, but the bone was
pointed at the American authorities and not at
him. And, moreover, the supposed forger of
the page seemed to have taken the strange
course of naming himself as the informant who
provided the matter on the page.
Though the document was supposedly created
for election purposes it must have been created
also for publication; but in fact those people
who controlled it had not published it, had
even resisted its publication, agreeing with every-
body that it was much better in a dustbin
than in a newspaper. And this was strange, he
inferred, seeing that the essence of the harm to
Dr. Evatt and his followers (if there was any-
thing in the document to harm them) would
lie in its publication.
Dr. Evatt, he pointed out, had not seen the
document before he made his accusations of
conspiracy and forgery. Indeed, nobody save
the Petrovs, the Security Police, the Prime
Minister and the commissioners and their
assistant counsel had seen it. Yet Dr. Evatt
was able to say that it was a forgery. Till then
Rupert Lockwood had not either through
his counsel or directly suggested that it
was a forgery; had, in fact, published a
pamphlet comparable to it in length purporting
to describe its contents and containing every
material thing that was in it except such matter
as he felt it unwise to publish—-Mr. Justice
Owen suggested because he knew it was defama-
tory. His counsel had accepted up to that time
that the document consisted of 37 pages. His
accusation was not that it was forged but that
it was stolen.
After Dr. Evatt appeared, Lockwood for
the first time said he did not type Document J,
and that there were 170 pages in the material
he typed and otherwise provided at the Soviet
Embassy. It was out of that suggestion that the
whole charge of conspiracy was built up by Dr.
Evatt. He wanted to add to this, he said, a
strangely significant fact that when Dr. EvatT
appeared on August 16 the line taken was the
same as that in the Soviet Union Note to the
Government. Before any part of Document J
was shown to Dr. Evatt—or anybody else out-
side Security and the inner circle of the com-
mission—he asserted that there were two
authors of it:
When this new actor enters the scene you
have Lockwood willing to say he did not
type the document Lockwood by his
statements has enabled the theory to be
advanced that Document J was typed by
somebody else.
Barwick added the material was clearly typed
directly on to the typewriter by its author. It was
typed on a Soviet Embassy typewriter. It bore
internal evidence of having been typed by a
person whose description would fit Lockwood
only and the sources attached to it, in the
first-person, showed that it was typed by one
person familiar with material with which Lock-
wood would be familiar. It was curious to
suggest that somebody went through the
extraordinary and seemingly—in this case
psychologically impossible—performance ot
forgery, for the mere purpose of including in
the document innocuous references to Dalziel
and Grundeman.
Sir Garfield continued that Dr. Bialoguski
“was to have been called by my friends to prove
that Petrov was a heavy drinker.” When it
appeared that he was acting “in another
capacity,” it became Mr. Hill’s duty to black-
guard him.
Mr. Justice Owen interrupted: “There is not
the slightest doubt in my mind that at the
time when it was requested, by the counsel tor
Dalziel and Grundeman, to bring Dr. Bialoguski
as a witness, it was hoped to use him to damage
Petrov. I thought myself it came as a great
shock when they heard that Dr. Bialoguski
was a Security agent.
Windeyer, Q.C., traversed the evidence m
detail. He said the first suggestion that Docu-
ment J was fabricated came from Dr. Evatt,
and it would be interesting to speculate on
the purpose of the charge, but that was not ms
task. Dr. Evatt’s allegations had been made
when he sprang to the aid of Dalziel and
Grundeman because the commissioners had
said, in referring to Document J, that it was
disturbing to find the author of the document
obtaining information from three people on the
secretariat of a person holding important public
office. The commission had said that there
was nothing in the document reflecting on Dr.
Evatt, or implicating him in any improper con-
duct. The author of Document J spat venom
copiously at Mr. W. C. Wentworth, M.P., and
did not hesitate to show his dislike of persons
opposed to Communism. Mr. Justice Phrlp
interposed:
If there had been a conspiracy to injure
Dr. Evatt and the Labor party, you would
not have found the piffling stuff published
in Document J, but you would expect to
see some really hot stuff about Dr. Evatt.
Mr. Windeyer commented: “Yes, and your
Honor would not have expected to find some
really hot stuff about people who were not in
the Labor party.”
Mr. Justice Owen; If there was a con-
spiracy to injure anyone the person who
would have more ground for saying it
would be Mr. Wentworth.
During the last part of the address Mr.
Justice Owen called attention to the fact that
Lockwood had that day applied m the Hign
Court for another writ, and said he understood
the purpose was to prevent the commission
making an interim report.
Mr. Justice Philp: You mean he is endeavor-
ing to prevent us making a public conclusion
Mr. Justice Owen said that he understood
Mr. Windeyer’s purpose was to show that
“someone was very, very anxious to stifle tnxs
Qf the addresses the commission
gave a finding that, having heard counsel.
We are in no doubt on that material,
quite apart from any evidence given by
Mr, and Mrs. Petrov, that Lockwood
composed and typed Document 3 in
Soviet Embassy on May 23, 24 and 2a, 1903.
It follows that all the allegations of
conspiracy, fraud, forgery, uttering and
false documents and the like, and tne
allegations against Mr. Richards, Deputy
Director of Security, and the Security
Service are without foundation.
The commission then adjourned till October
18 to allow it to prepare an interim report to tne
Governor-General in which it will ‘ set out
shortly our conclusion and the reason for it.
Conspiracy at Home
“In the ACT”: Even the most bitter
critics of Dr. Evatt will admit that the
latest conspiracy he claims to have dis-
covered, this time among what he calls
“small groups” in the “Labor” party,
appears at least to have some basis in
fact’. There is no doubt that a large pro-
portion of the party, including many
members who have not yet dared to be
vocal, is completely fed-up with his
“leadership,” and only prevented from
moving at once to depose him by the
absence of any able and acceptable
alternative. All this has provoked recur-
rent and whining complaint by Dr. Evatt
that he is being persecuted by somebody
or something, and this, in turn, has been
largely responsible for the party’s acceler-
ated fall in public esteem. “Labor” and
its leader have publicly demonstrated
their inability either to take a licking well
or to apply its lessons to their own future.
As a result, as Menzies predicts, they are
likely to be on the “outer” for the next
20 years. . . _
The subtle change occurring in Evatt s
personality since the announcement ot
the setting-up of the Spy Inquiry was dis-
played clearly in his statement last weeK
on party disloyalty. It has never been in
his make-up to admit that party critics
might be right and he might be wrong,
and he was not expected to do so, even
on his fantastic and desperate election-bia
of means-test abolition. But now, as in
another venue, there is something more
He is going to tortuous lengths to nnu
and disclose allegedly hidden and under-
lying motives, to suggest that sinister,
unnamed forces are at work against him.
This is a serious illustration of his pre-
sent state of mind, suggestive of hysteria
which is believed to be alarming his most
ardent supporters.
Apart from his repeated attacks on
Catholic Action, a matter on which
“Labor” itself must now reach a deci-
sion, Dr. Evatt has hinted that his critics
are in some sort of collusion with what he
calls the “anti-Labor parties, aod tb
their “disloyal” methods resemble those
of Communist and Fascist infiltration.
(Continued on next pagel


His complete intolerance of criticism is
apparent when he says that long patience
(exercised in the sacred interests of soli-
darity!) with some of the “outbursts”
must now be followed by unyielding firm-
ness and party discipline. In other words,
instead of having the criticism examined
judicially by the party’s policy-making
body, he wants the critics, the “tiny
minority” of malcontents, thrown by the
Federal conference in January into the
outer darkness of non-endorsement.
It seems highly unlikely that the Par-
liamentary caucus, already riven by
faction, will permit such a crucial matter
to rest for so long. The issue before it,
when it meets in Canberra today, or
before the January conference when it
assembles, should not be condemnation
or justification of those members who
have publicly opposed some of their
leader’s policies, and who have become
understandably more outspoken since
recent developments at the Petrov com-
mission. It should be the ruinous effect
on the party’s reputation and prestige of
Dr. Evatt’s continued occupancy of his
present post. There should, indeed, be
unanimous and public acknowledgement
that recent close association between
“Labor” and the Communists is threaten-
ing to the party and damaging to Aus-
tralia. There should be an examination
of the causes and effects of that associa-
tion. Thereafter, if the party so decides,
the future leadership should be thrown
into the ring.
POLITICAL POINTS
If the Evatt conspiracy circle expands
much further it’ll include everyone
except Bert,
0 0
Army medical-chief Kingsley Norris
has forecast that 50 years hence fatal
illnesses may be unknown and death will
result only from old age or accident.
Modern Malthusians who fear this may
mean overpopulation need not be unduly
worried; the road-accident rate will
probably keep abreast of medical science.
0 0
When Fadden abandoned Federal
entertainment-tax Cain was one State
Premier who promptly picked it up. Now,
probably as a result of his Tatt.’s scoop,
he is announcing reductions; cheaper
seats up to 2s. 6d. will be free of tax,
and the maximum levy will be Is. at live
shows and two-bob elsewhere. Horse-
and dog-racing don’t come within the
definition of live shows —possibly be-
cause there are so many dead-’uns
running.
0 0
That person thought to be mythical—
the basic-wage man —does exist, after all,
unless the Rev. N. Danne, Anglican vicar
of St. Phillip’s, Collingwood, is mistaken.
Mr. Danne told the Melbourne Anglican
Synod that a man in his parish had given
him £5O, saying “Give this to Ridley Col-
lege,” The vicar continued; “That man
is on the basic wage, as most of my
parishioners are.” The generosity of the
giver deserves recognition, but it’s up to
Towers, M.L.A. for Collingwood, to look
into the wage-position in his electorate.
Elsewhere in Australia it is hard to find
a man who isn’t on a margin of some
sort.
0 0
Modem fairy-tale: There was once a
president of U.N.O. who declared him-
self the champion of small nations and of
minorities. Minorities, he said, had a
right to be heard. But later on . . .
0 0
Changing its mind once again, the
N. S. Wales Government is to extend
petrol-selling hours to 8.30 p.m. on week-
days and 6 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays
and public holidays. Making the
announcement. Minister for Labor and
Industry Landa said the new hours were
“a much-needed reform in the public
interest.” The same comment could apply
to Friday-night shopping and to saner
trading-hours for suburban shops, but the
Cahills are afraid to offend the Shop-
Assistants’ Union by considering the
public interest,
" 0 0
GATT was the subject of two neat
comments last week. R. A. Butler,
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer,
told delegates at the Conservative Con-
ference ;
Some of you, I understand, want to
de-gut GATT. We should not do that —we
should re-gut GATT.
The other comment, by the London
“Economist,” was only indirectly
GATTish. Accusing Senator O’Sullivan
and Commerce Minister McEwen of
thinking that there should always be
restrictions and controls on international
trade, the paper said that the world had
moved a long way from the Emerson dic-
tum that if a man made a better mouse-
trap the world would beat a path to his
door: —
Nowadays we prefer a gentleman’s
agreement that other people will buy our
second-class mousetraps if we will buy
their second-class cheese.
0 0
“Labor” M.L.A. Jesson, of Queensland,
apparently thinks second-class as applied
to cheese produced in his State is a
flattering exaggeration. He told his
fellows in the Queensland Assembly that
in most cases it “was more like soap,”
0 0
Churchill tells the Conservatives he is
not yet handing the reins to Anthony
Eden:
There is enough for both of us to do at
the present time. You may be sure we shall
settle our affairs in future between us,
governed only by what we believe to be the
greatest interest of the public service and
the fortunes of our party.
The old boy will be 80 next month.
Young businessmen and professional
men, particularly in the capital cities,
have lately been suffering from an ail-
ment in which the chief symptoms are a
marked feeling of depression, anxiety
neurosis, and an excruciating pain in the
hip-nerve —or, more precisely, the hip-
pocket nerve. It has been diagnosed as
the after-effect of uranium-fever.
0 0
Air Minister Townley, who recently
moved from social services, disclosed in
the Reps that there are insufficient medi-
cal graduates to meet requirements in
Australia. This was an aside to an
announcement that the R.A.A.F. was
seeking at least 10 doctors in Britain.
0 0
Sydney “Sun” apparently regards debts
as a dashed nuisance but not an obliga-
tion. In a sob-story editorial dealing
with the proposed auctioning of an ex-
serviceman’s house in order to meet a
judgment debt of £95, it said:
Like many other houses and properties,
it would probably have been sold by court
order for a ridiculous fraction of the
£5OOO which it is worth.
Not a mention in the editorial about a
mortgage of £2750 on the house, though
that fact appears as a news-item three
columns away. So, even if the house
did sell for £2250, plus the mortgage, it
would have brought all that “The Sun”
PESTS AND PROBLEMS
says it is worth. Maybe “The Sun”
doesn’t understand that if you borrow
money you are supposed to repay it.
e 0
In the United States H-particles are
being fired into the human brain in order
to cure malignant growths. In Australia
Dr. Evatt has been firing J-particles,
hoping to achieve opposite results.
0 0
Alderman Prendergast, of the Brisbane
City Council (no relation to Bulletin
artist Lock’s seadog), has advanced a
novel argument against national-service
training. His complaint is that many of
the trainees will be beyond the age of a
normal fighting soldier when war breaks
out, so that the money spent in training
them will have been wasted. He wants
the cash spent on local-government pro-
jects instead. There would be two ways
of overcoming the weakness Prendergast
has discovered. One would be to insist
that any country contemplating war
against us should be compelled to give
us 12 months’ notice so that we can train
the proper age-groups. Failing co-opera-
tion in this respect an alternative would
be for youngsters to undergo their
national-service training at kindergarten
age.
0 0
Doubtless encouraged by the Attlee
journey, the Russians are making a strong
bid for the interest of British trade-
unionists. Two Moscow appeals have
been made within the last three months
for a visit from a British trade-union
delegation “to discuss a renewal of the
war-time ties between the Russian unions
and the British Trade Union Congress.”
The meeting of that, congress at Brighton,
representing eight million unionists,
voted overwhelmingly against taking part
in talks with the Communist-dominated
W.F.T.U. The card vote was 5,985,000
in favor and 1,886,000 against,
• •
When Evatt’s life of Holman, Labor
Leader, came out it was said that the fas-
cination of the subject for Bert was Hol-
man’s turning Nationalist; there was
speculation whether his biographer would
do likewise. At the moment it looks as
though it’s not Bert that’s going to leave
the party, but the party that’s going to
leave Bert.
• •
Bearing up bravely under the loss of
Tatt.’s, Tasmanian Treasurer Madden said
in his Budget speech that revenue from
lotteries would reach only £574,000 this
year compared with £1,515,177 in 1953-
54. He found the figure a little difficult
to estimate as it depended “on the
measure of support enjoyed by Tas-
manian Lotteries. The lottery may have
to meet stiff competition in certain States.
On the other hand, the lottery may enjoy
unexpected support from overseas.”
No increase in tax-rates is contem-
plated, but revenue will benefit from an
increase in the Commonwealth’s Special
Grant. Of this the Treasurer remarks:
On past occasions I have expressed sur-
prise and disappointment at the amount of
the special grant recommended by the
commission. On this occasion I am pleased
to say that I consider the amount of the
grant is a fair and reasonable assessment
of the needs of the State for 1954-5.
The sum granted is £3,200,000, compared
with £1,650,000 last year.
• •
When Edith Summerskill, chairman of
the British Labor party, described Georgi
Malenkov as “stimulating,” was she
speaking as a woman or as a politician?
• •
“Mugga Way”: The External Affairs
Department was thrown into an excited
flap last Thursday by the broadcast re-
port that Krishna Menon had announced
at U.N.O. in New York that India had
decided to support the Dutch, and not the
Indonesians, in the West New Guinea
argument. At the Indonesian Embassy
there was astonished incredulity, later
proved to have been justified when the
report was corrected, and some sort of
explanation offered. The incident had
curious aspects. In the meantime, news-
paper editorials had been published, and
radio comments given. The excuse by
Reuters was that Menon had been quoting
from Casey, but hadn’t said so.
• •
From “Labor” circles in Wollongong
comes a suggestion that industries in that
area should be rated for local-government
purposes on the improved, instead of the
unimproved, value of their land, A great
idea! You use every endeavor to induce
industries to move into your area; then
when they are firmly established you slug
’em hard. Incidentally, taxation on un-
improved values has been Labor policy
for as long as there has been a Labor
party.
• •
Evatt is undoubtedly greater than
Lenin. But will he succeed in being as
great as Lang?
• •
It seems that the Mica Pool was
another war-time creation which has
taken taxpayers for a swim. The pool
has been buying block-mica from miners
in Hart’s Range and Plenty River areas
of N.T. and selling it to Australian users
for a nominal margin to cover freight
and operating-costs. A recent survey by
a U.K. expert showed that while the basic
quality of our mica was equal to world
standard, our methods of grading for
quality and size did not meet overseas
needs. Therefore the pool is to be
reorganised, with both producers and
consumers given a voice. New specifica-
tions for quality and size are likely, and
buying prices will be “adjusted” to gain
an increased share of the local market
and sell the surplus abroad at reasonable
rates. “In future,” says Supply Minister
Beale, “the pool will have to be self-
supporting. The Government’s financial
liability will be now limited to the pro-
vision of a reasonable amount of capital.”
• •
“Stromlo”; On the figures it seems
highly unlikely that cheap aluminium
will be forthcoming from the Bell Bay
(Tas.) plant when that longwinded pro-
ject at last starts producing. Since 1945
the total expenditure by the Aluminium
Production Commission has been
£8,744,000, including more than
£2,400,000 in each of the last two years.
• •
When Sheehan, “Labor” member for
Cook (N.S.W.), asked if it were a fact
that the present members of the Repat.
Commission and Repat, boards and
assessment- and entitlement-tribunals
consisted “entirely of ex-officers of the
services,” he got the reply he deserved.
He was told that the service-ranks of
persons now on those bodies ranged from
major-general to private.
• •
“Doc” Page got little limelight for a
health-survey which mentioned that in
2j years the number of persons covered
by voluntary hospital insurance had
jumped from 2,154,000 (or 25 per cent,
of the population) to 5,007,000 (56 per
cent.). He blamed lack of co-operation
by the Gair Government for the compara-
tively poor figures in Queensland. The
medical-benefits scheme, which has been
operating little more than a year, now
covers more than 40 per cent, of the
eligible population. Federal and fund
benefits cover from 60 to 75 per cent, of
contributors’ medical bills.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
COME aspects of the Petrov case—in
which Dr. Evatt sees dark con-
spiracy remind me of a story I heard
in China. The maid of a very stingy
man, in whose family no entertainments
were ever given, was one day carrying a
basket of crockery down to the river. An
acquaintance said “So you are having
guests to dinner today, are you?” The
girl replied: “Go along with you! It’ll
be a generation hence that you’ll hear of
our master giving a dinner-party.” This
being repeated to the master, he said to
tbe maid; Who asked you to talk so
"MPW” Y a ?
■ ■ t “ w '
♦> * *
“Spokeshave”: Dangers of television
to the peace and happiness of Australia?
After seeing her husband on a television
broadcast in a cafe drinking bubbly with
a damsel, a wife in Copenhagen has sued
for divorce; husband has sued the tele-
vision-station for violating his right to
privacy.
♦ * *
“Cauboy”: So Sir Thomas Beecham
has once again voiced disapproval of
those who show disrespect for music. His
most emphatic piece of criticism was
non-verbal. He was conducting a
symphony at the Melbourne Town Hall;
the big-drum virtuoso, a chap I had
always admired for the intensity of his
focus, was waiting, with drumsticks
upraised and his eyes riveted on Sir
Tammas, for the signal for his entrance,
which didn’t occur for at least 15 minutes
after the opus started. At the very
moment that the conductor’s baton began
to move in his direction he fainted; the
drumsticks fell from his hand, rolled
across the platform and descended the
stairs step by step with a resonant thump-
thump till they reached the bottom.
Beecham continued his conducting to
the final great chord, then laid down his
baton and, with a furious glance towards
the unlucky drummer, who had by now
recovered, strode off the platform.
*> *X*
“Hallcraft”: Queer signs? What about
this one on a service-station in Too-
woomba (Q.): “Ring twice for night
service. Then keep your shirt on whilst
I get my pants on.” Progress with
prudence!
“Lines”: And this one. Near one of
the gates in Adelaide’s parkland, the
mysterious and misleading “Cows Only.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“K.R.”: “ ‘Dry Dock’ for Humans”
was an intriguing Reuter headline, but
turned out to be just another convalescent
home. Only difference from the usual
run: everything will be described in
crusty old seafaring terms, in bed being
“in port,” staffs “crews,” etc.; patients
are “ships,” “docked for repairs” after
wear-and-tear from their life-“voyages.”
Presumably the “dry dock” will be as
thirsty as it sounds. If so, it should at
least offer safe anchorage for human
“tankers” limping in with a complaint
which, afflicting a real ship, would of old
have precipitated the cry “All hands to
the pumps!” Backsliders from the dry
“slips” would, of course, be diagnosed
as having “sprung a leak.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Arbee”: Cannot understand Mr.
Fortunat Baronat’s bepuzzlement at the
lack of mental equipment in aspirants
for the title of Miss Universe (B.
22/9/’54). After all, the girls were chosen
for their shapes and looks. Beauty,
shapely torsos and traffic-stopping gams
are rarities, and the lass who has all these
bodily perfections, combined with a brain,
would be in the freak category.
“Jasby”; Arrived home on a recent
wet evening to find a hurricane-lamp
and candles doing their poor best to
substitute for electric light. My wife said
the power had been off since early after-
noon, but as we have been blackout-
free during the latest period of trouble in
the Sydney power-houses I took the news
philosophically—at first. Candles lit us
through the evening meal, enabled the
baby to get away with a lick-and-a-
promise bath and provided the older
youngsters with an excuse for scamping
their homework. By nine-o’clock I’d had it
and reckoned it was the time some other
suburb took over its share of the burden.
Rang the Sydney County Council and
asked how much longer the blackout in
Marrickville was expected to last. A
very polite young lady replied that there
was no blackout in Marrickville. I in-
formed her, just as politely, I hope, that
I lived in Marrickville and that my por-
tion of the suburb had been blacked out
since 2 p.m. She said “Ooh!” and con-
ferred in low tones with someone. Then,
“Could you tell me your nearest street-
corner?” I could and did. “Thank you.
Now, are you quite positive there are no
lights at all in your street?” “Yes —er,
will you hold the line a moment? I’ll
make sure again.” I went to the front
door. The street-lights were full on and
there were lights in every window across
the road. I glanced up at the main switch
on the veranda. It was pulled right out.
Pushed it in and on came my light. Back
to the phone, full of apologies for the
“Did you say a fishbone or a wishbone ?”
polite young lady and curses for old
houses which can shake out a switch
just because a high wind annoys them a
little.
» ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“The Bunyip”: Simple words with a
plain meaning are a good investment at
any time, but when swift action depends
upon their instant interpretation they
can be lifesavers. When I must drive to
Sydney the mad urgency of outer-
suburban traffic is for a time relieved by
the pleasant advent of a double-road.
You see it ahead and watch out for the
sort of sign you might expect —Keep
Left, One-way Traffic, or such —but, be-
hold, you have entered nothing less than
a Dual Carriage-way. New Aussie
drivers could hardly be blamed for
expecting postillions. Returning home
there are two narrow bridges whose
approaches bear the warning No Passing
on Bridge. What they mean is Single
Traffic Only—if another vehicle is com-
ing toward you over the bridge wait till
it is clear before you start to cross.
Recently a southern-district hospital in
N.S.W. had 10 inter-State patients, all of
whom owed their presence there to
misunderstanding the No Passing sign.
♦, ♦ ❖
“Baksac”: Knowing only one language,
I find trying to converse with New Aus-
tralians extremely interesting. Many
Italian words can be figured out —for
instance (spelling phonetic): jarka for
jacket or coat; capello, cap or hat;
pantaloonie, pants; and so on. The
Saxons, too, left us a few pointers to
modern German: fader, father ; madder,
mother; garten, garden. But trying to
get a lead on Polish had me hanging on
desperately. Then, in his halting English,
my Polish workmate informed me that
English was taught in the “gymnasiums”
in Poland. I was amazed. He tried to
elucidate but couldn’t. A fellow-Pole
‘came to the rescue: gymnasium is Polish
for high-school. That explained every-
thing. English in gymnasiums! Ever
heard some of Sydney’s gymnasium-
managers broadcasting?
♦♦♦
“M’boro”: There’s a secret about the
“Give It a Title” newspaper contests
which “Mabsout” (B. 22/9/’54) bemoans.
As one who’s lifted a consolatory tenner
in one competition I feel the munificent
benefits of such newspaper generosity
should be shared. For instance, a typical
picture shows the family at wash-day—
the cat with its tail caught in the wringer,
the family junior squirting his Ma from
the hose, Pa, with pipe and glasses, dump-
ing cochineal in the rinsing water and
the two daughters using sheets for
parachute-descents from the wash-
house roof. Now, you’ve got to think
into the obscure crannies of your judging
editor’s mind. The word “Ma” in your
title is enough to put you well on the way
to prizemoney with any self-respecting
working-man’s paper, and “Ma’s Washed
Up”—a passing gem—would delight any
editor. Don’t try these involuted puns,
though: “For Whom the Belle Toils,” for
instance, is strictly w.p.b. material —too
high-flown. Remember, always, you’re
striving for some delightful subtlety that
has that magic thing, the common touch,
an intangible understood completely only
by editors and the mothers-of-ten who
fill correspondence-columns with how to
be happy on 45-bob a week.
❖ ❖
“Melbn”: The ancient Romans built
circular temples, but the first completely
semicircular church in Australia is to be
built for the Roman Catholic Church in
East Coburg (Vic.). It’s the last word in
modern architecture, but I doubt if it will
be as much liked as the old bluestone
fane it replaced. The trouble about
modern architecture is that it has no
associations for us.
<♦ ❖ *
“Perseverando”: On that health-giving
ozone introduced into London’s Tube-
railways (B. 15/9/’54); another interest-
ing atmospheric phenomenon has been
steadily going on in the Tube for the
past half-century. The air in them has
been getting warmer. Engineers claim
that this has been caused by heat (gener-
ated when brakes are put on) being
stored-up in the clay walls. The rise in
temperature is from 51 degrees in the
1900’s to 75 degrees today. The increase
might have been more if the designers
of the Underground had not put stations
on slopes to assist starting and stopping.
THE TROUT’S COMPLAINT
“Once considered a sport mainly for the well-
to-do, trout-fishing now has a following of 20,000
in N. S. Wales, drawn from all walks of life.”
The Rainbow-trout said “S’elp me Bob!
You know, old trout, I’m not a snob.
But when the masses
Take to a sport so highly skilled ! , . .
And . . , Well, we’re used to being killed
By upper classes!
“Yet how avoid the common herd?
Though contact with a butcher-bird
Would seem a sin to us,
We can’t say who’s beyond the pale,
And any man’s a silvertail,
Until he’s into us.
“A nd, just as in the human race
There’s not a soul who knows his place,
There’s not a trout of us,
When humans are alike as flies,
But knows the man we give a rise
May take one out of us.
“Such, noble Trout, your present fate:
Cheap crockery, not silver-plate
Or Doulton dishes ;
Your stream stacked like an Upper
House
Every year with many thous-
And hatchery-fishes !
“Does Nature draw this parallel ?
Do laws decide it —who can tell ? —-
Or things befall so ?
However it may come about.
It’s trite today to be a trout
And a man also.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
NORTH SYDNEY OVAL NO. 2
“No Hill here, no jostling for a view.
No rubbing shoulders with that motley
crew
Who don’t know the difference between
the ball and the bat
And yell at every blessed bowl: ‘How
zat ?’ ”
So says the old man impaled on the
pickets
Anxiously watching the fall of wickets,
As North Sydney’s tail gives its last
flick.
“Ah,” says the old man, “it makes me
sick !
“It isn’t like the old times: Victor
Trumper,
He’d show these young coves what to do
with a bumper.
He’d hook it from here to Circular Quay.
The young-uns aren’t what they used to
be.”
Then, “How zat?” he yells. “Not out,”
rules the ump.
The old man rises, giving me a bump.
Fierce glances, muttering, great shaking
of knees ...
Old-age shuffles down the avenue of trees.
N.S.W.
P. K. FINNANE.


'T'HE Amatetir Hour contestant, a
A Sydney lad of 15, was being put
through the usual routine before com-
mencing his song. “And what does your
father do?” asked the compere, in that
inquisitive, matey way radio comperes
have. “Oh,” said the youngster, “he’s a
cockatoo on Clark Island.” The in-
quirer almost swallowed his mike, but
the lad recovered himself in time with
“I mean he’s a clerk on Cockatoo Island.”
—“Becks.”
❖ +> *t*
“G.L.8.”: Urging that Australia might
emulate the cultural enthusiasm of
Ontario, “D.S.” (B. 29/9/’54) says there
“Personally I think it's club-feet —golf or bowls every Weekend .”
should be more in Australian life than
fat cows and fast horses. There is; there
are fair cows and slow horses. The terms
are commonly used synonymously.
“Tidbinbilla”: Must challenge
“Sebak’s” statement that a naught at
the end of a decimal figure has no value
(B. 15/9/’54). Such figures are often
used in science, engineering and tech-
nology—and in sport, Landy’s record
time for the mile is 3min. 58.0 sec. If
written “3min. 58sec.” it would look as
though the time had been measured
only to the nearest second. In fact,
the timing was correct to the nearest fifth
of a second. As a more striking example,
reference to a modern table of atomic
weights discloses that the weight of an
oxygen-16 atom is 16.0000. The four
naughts show that the relative weights
of the various atoms have been measured
to six-figure accuracy. Still sceptical?
Then here’s one more example, though
the decimal-point is not involved expli-
citly. See how the judicious use of
naughts shows the anticipated precision
of timing in each of these statements:
“Breakfast at 8”; “Parade at 0800” ;
“The bomb will be exploded at 08hrs,
OOmin. OOsec.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chevroford”; Wonder how that Mel-
bourne Supreme Court jury computed
that, in an accident in which a young
motor-cyclist was injured, he was 12}
per cent, to blame; wherefore it reduced
the damages by £1665, leaving the respect-
able total of £11,655.
❖ *l* *>
“K.A.”: Would like to meet the bloke
who figures, not prominently, but quite
frequently, in the press—the conscience-
ridden chappie who sends along to taxa-
tion, railways or some similar industry
a sum of money (with, naturally, vague
details regarding identity) which is duly
acknowledged as a news-item. Always
wonder how he got away with it, and
what proportion of evasion has been paid
to ensure sound sleeping. Freud might
explain the whole business as some sort
of inverted satisfaction from anonymity;
but I have a horrible suspicion that the
conscience-stricken derive smug satisfac-
tion more from the press-item than from
payment of the debt, or part thereof.
+*«• +*+ >*4
“D.G.E.”: What a splendiferous
understatement is the claim (B. 29/9/’54)
that Da Vinci was a meticulous observer
of his subject-matter! Consider this
extract from his notebooks:
If you open your legs so much as to
decrease your height by one-fourteenth and
spread and raise your arms so that your
middle fingers are on a level with the top
of your head, you must know that the
navel will be the centre of a circle of which
the outspread limbs touch the circumfer-
ence; and the space between the legs will
form an equilateral triangle.
Leonardo continues in this way for pages,
“G. Elburg”: “Justin Thyme’s” re-
calling (B. 29/9/’54) having been given
George Giffen’s book With Bat and Ball
in Australia to check because “the great
cricketer’s arithmetic was not his strong-
point” is really a reflection on the late
Clarence Moody, cricket-scribe of the
Adelaide “Register.” A ghost is behind
many of the reminiscences of famous
cricketers who find the pen heavier than
the bat.
“Mugga Way”: Next year the
annual festival in memory of Bobbie
Bums will last for more than a week,
beginning on January 17. It will be held
in Ayr, where on a stormy night in
1759 the poet was born in a house which
his father, William Burness, built with
his own hands The festival is tipped to
be the biggest since that one held in Ayr
in 1844—though no one present will be
able to compare the two gatherings.
Enthusiasts from all over the world,
including 70 from Washington, D.C., are
trying to get into the accommodation
"It's lovely to relax after a hard day in the office
quota of 500. Ample supplies of pro-
visions suitable to the occasion are
promised.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Clyne”: How about pitting the Eng-
lish cricketers against a team of real
Australians? Wouldn’t be the first time
such a team handled the willow against
England. ’Way back in 1868 a Mr. Wills
taught and trained a team that went
overseas under the captaincy of one
Lawrence. It included such names as Tar-
Brush, Bullocky, Dick-a-Dick, King
Cole, Mullagh, Mosquito, Jim Crow,
Tiger, Two-penny and Redcap. They
played 47 matches, winning 14, losing
19. Mullagh was top-scorer with 94;
Mullagh and Two-penny best bowlers.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: Touching these modern
artists who make a hit by carrying round
live snakes in their pockets. One of Mel-
bourne’s best-known artists lost his teeth
and used to take a mincer with him when
he was invited out to dinner; screwing it
on to the table, he would mince his meat
up before eating. He wasn’t trying to
make a hit, however; was quite inno-
cent about it.
THE VEGETATOR
“Rather than complain you should be thank-
ful that your husband spends so much time in
the garden. If he pursued some other hobby
or recreation you might never know where he
was or what he was doing.” —Dorothy Dix.
Can a wife be sure, you think,
When her lord proclaims that he
At the weekend will be going after
snapper,
That he isn’t '‘on the blink,”
And that what he’ll hook could be
Some most vivacious and curvaceous
flapper ?
If her thoughts she’d analyse
Then a doubt she'd doubtless feel
(Which wouldn’t be at all extra-
ordinary)
That the nylons that he buys
Really are the ones you reel.
They might be for the twin limbs of
some “fairy.”
See the'bowler tripping past
With his little bag of tricks,
All spruced-up, full of beans,
whistling a ditty.
Oh, a real enthusiast!
On his way to bowl ’em ? Nix !
He finds more int’resting another
Kitty.
Punters, golfers, even those
Who may test the model-plane,
The followers of eighteen-footer
races —
Each one might be “on the nose”
With his missus. Off the chain.
And ’way-from-home sports are
suspicious cases.
But the bloke who potters round
Tying tomato to its stake.
Thrashing the thrips and slugging
at the slaters.
Tickling up his bit of ground
With his mattock, hoe and rake
And tending lovingly his beans and
’taters —
He’s the answer to her prayer.
The domestic paragon;
No Casanova he, never a gambler.
Oh, a jewel beyond compare
Who can be depended on
Never, never to emulate his
rambler.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
DEATH OF A WEEKLY
THE passing of “John o’ London’s
Weekly” is almost as sudden as the
death earlier this year of its last editor
of great note, Wilson Midgley. I am
glad in a way that Midgley preceded his
journal into the silence; for, although
I met him only once, I know he loved
the paper dearly. ( It was his life and
strong affection for 10 of the 35 years the
paper existed as a mentor and venue of
fine delight for readers and writers new
and not-so-new, and as a miracle of
mellow companionship for the old, among
the skittish, immature or weak-watered
magazinishness which marks much pre-
sent-day London literary opinion, so-
called.
I trust Midgley was blissfully ignorant
of what his paper’s fate was to be.
Because of waning health, he retired
from the editorship, which he assumed
in 1943 from Frank Whitaker —his
staunch friend, now editor of “Country
Life,” and another remarkable “J. o’ L.”
leader —in February, 1953 ; but he con-
tinued to write for the paper, and the
day before his death last March person-
ally delivered the latest of the articles
he was contributing under the title of
“Odd Book Out.”
Despite his editing, broadcasting and
adult-education activities in England, not
enough is publicly known about Midgley,
and I sincerely hope Frank Whitaker, who
wrote a warm but brief obituary of his
friend in the April 2 issue of “J. o’ L.,”
some day finds time to present some sort
of familiar biography of this kindly,
rough-diamond of a man who turned from
lay-preaching and settlement work in
the rigorous streets of Manchester to the
even more meagrely-rewarding task of
literary journalism.
Midgley was first and foremost a
journalist; he was, I should say, almost
inordinately proud of this fact —a bluff
abundant testimony of journalism’s gift
to literature, something which should
never be underestimated. There was
absolutely nothing namby-pamby or
pretentious about him, and there was
plenty of Fleet-street in his blood,
although his office was in Southampton-
street, off the Strand, in Newnes’ Tower
House, which accommodated another
notable Newnes publication, Chambers’
Encyclopaedia.
When I met him in 1951, Midgley was
a broad-shouldered, forthright-voiced
man with a head and face grooved with
apparent hazards ; but the shrewd twinkle
in his eyes and the open door he always
kept to unseeded writers, job-hunting
journalists, literary waifs and others who
never stood a chance of penetrating to
some of the -Fleet-street editors without
a special pass or blood-test belied the
first impression of gruffness and un-
approachability. Of a tough exterior,
inside he was all gentleness and sym-
pathy, concreted underneath with a for-
titude and faith implicit in the very way
he spoke, or spread his arms tripod-
fashion upon his desk.
“John o’ London” was housed in small
quarters —there were, if memory serves,
only two rooms, of which Midgley’s was
by far the smaller, and narrow, with
a window beside his desk looking down-
hill towards the Strand —and it was vir-
tually a “one-man show.” Midgley was
the man; but to him, and his paper, he
attracted the allegiance and quality of
such outside contributors as Richard
Church and Frank Swinnerton (litera-
ture), J. C. Trewin (theatre), Sidney Har-
rison (music), Peter Forster (films), F. M.
Godfrey (art), and a host of others, not
forgetting the poets and short-story
writers, the younger of whom received
the stimulating encouragement of both
publication and detailed criticism.
Although a pacifist, Midgley was as
positively charged, as vital and as ener-
getic a terminal as any editor of a “con-
tributor-staffed” journal would have to
be. As one of the numberless aspirers he
no doubt encountered and cheered in
“John o’ London’s” magnificent but
merciless city, I became immediately
aware of his friendly magnetism. Frank
Whitaker mentions his “good-humoured
intensity,” his “all-consuming enthusi-
asms,” his “courage” and “conscience,”
and finally his “freshness and vitality” as
a writer and editor. “I never knew him
make an enemy or lose a friend,” says
Whitaker, “for behind him was a kind-
ness of heart that was inexhaustible.”
Momentary as my meeting with him
was, I shall always retain the image of a
good man, and of his paper I can only
say that its passing will be as big a blow
to adherents and communicants of
literature as Midgley’s own was.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


hg
Ghloncta
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Steward Moyes was ordained in
1907, and went on to serve at many places
in his native South Australia, as well as
in Lewisham, London. But Armidale
(N.S.W.) settled him—he will have con-
ferred upon him the freedom of that city,
to mark his 25 years of bishoping there,
Author of four works, he is brother to
journalist-cricketer Johnny Moyes, uncle
to John Frederick Moyes (of Scrap-Iron
Flotilla), and brother to Captain Morton
Moyes, ex-R.A.N. instructor-officer, with
the Shackleton relief-expedition to the
Ross Sea in 1916, and, in the year J.S.
became Bishop of Armidale, back down
that way in the Discovery. The bishop has
been in the U.S. attending the World
Council of Churches ; he is due back in
Armidale today.
• •
Artist Clark had a particular interest
in meeting Stephen Spender; met him
and renewed acquaintance with the tall,
stiff-gentle man he had known as a boy
at University College School in England
-poet-lecturer Spender then b em 8
known as Suspender, alias Knight of
POETRY
the Garter.” Clark recalls that even
then, 30 years back, Spender was a
poetical sort of kid, a natural for rag-
ging ; but with a sort of quiet strength
under it all. A man with a penchant for
application, now one of Britain’s fore-
most poets and critics, Spender has
authored just under a score of books, one
of them, World Within World, an auto-
biography which the “Times” literary
supplement judged “an exceptionally
good book.” A fireman during London
blitzes, Spender is in these parts under
the auspices of the Committee for Cul-
tural Freedom, presided over by Sir
John Latham, and is headed for a heavy
lecture programme in all capital cities
except Perth.
9 •
David Rowbotham, of the younger clan
of Bulletin writers, could have been a
bootmaker (great-granddad opened the
first boot-factory in Toowoomba, on the
Queensland Downs) or a Methodist
minister. Byron and others led him to
poetry —along a diverse path. A schoolie
in the Queensland outback when Hitler
put poets and others into the air, Row-
botham joined the R.A.A.F., wireless-
operator in the Pacific. Stripping corn
and cows after the ceasefire, he gave that
away for Queensland University, where
he edited the institution’s magazine, won
the Ford Memorial Medal for poetry;
shifted to Sydney University, and took
off the Henry Lawson prize for verse.
He saw his first Bulletin poem in
print in 1946, and has since appeared
in Australian Poetry, the Jindyworobak
anthologies and George Mackaness’s
Poets of Australia. The other day his own
Ploughman and Poet was born, a volume
of verse about the buttressing ranges and
blacksoil plains of his native Darling
Downs. Rowbotham spent some time in
Fleet-street, returning home in 1952 to a
staff -job on the Toowoomba “Chronicle.”
Shyly studious, he has turned-out many
a fine Bulletin short-story as well as
reams of verse,
® •
“Uramao”; Through the munificence
of Sir Arthur Sims, one-time Christ-
church (N.Z.) businessman and cricketer,
now living in England, the public hospi-
tal in the Flat City is to have installed a
cobalt telecurie unit for radiation therapy.
Estimated to cost between £25,000 and
£30,000, this latest development in the
cancer fight is similar to one in the Uni-
versity Hospital of Saskatoon, Canada.
“Fitz”; Short-story writer Don
Edwards made his first literary flights in
verse, but quickly entered the short-story
field. His first story appeared in the old
“Sydney Mail,” and soon afterwards he
made his Bulletin debut. When his
story, “He Walks Home With His
Wife,” won a prize in a Bulletin
competition it was realised that a writer
of considerable calibre had arrived.
Edwards belongs to the group of
writers who burst into the pages of The
Bulletin during the early years of J. E.
Webb’s editorship, a batch that included
Gavin Casey, Kylie Tennant, James
Hackston, E. O. Schlunke, A. C. Headley
and Margaret Trist.
His early stories were either concerned
with working-class people worried by
the threat of unemployment or were
stories of domestic disillusion, the picture
of a man imprisoned in hate or escaping
in misery. As he developed his work
became longer, less austere, and revealed
a sinewy strength. Three fine examples
of his later work are “The House on the
Cliff,” “The Woman from the Bend,”
and “Rendezvous over the River,” the
last a model of construction.
Stories by Edwards have appeared fre-
quently in Coast to Coast, which he
edited in 1947, and he is a consistent
prize-winner in literary competitions. His
collection of yarns High Hill at Mid-
night (1944) was published by arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, and his first novel, The Woman at
Jingera, saw print in 1948. He has also
written a book for children.
The son of Banner Edwards, cricketer
and tennis-player, Don played first-grade
cricket for Central Cumberland and A-
grade tennis. He’s a Sydney schoolie.
• •
Melbourne’s old Theatre Royal was run
for years by Charles A. Wenman, close
friend of Melba and in his day one of
the country’s best-known theatrical pro-
ducers. Son of Tom Wenman, an English-
man who had played at the Lyceum with
Henry Irving, Ellen Terry and other
immortals, Charles came to Melbourne
in 1908 as representative of Denton,
Bode and McKenzie, then leagued with
Meynell and Gunn. His first production
was “Miss Hook of Holland,” and a long
succession of musical winners followed.
His first panto., “Cinderella,” held the
boards for 17 weeks in 1914—a local
record. When Meynell and Gunn amalga-
mated with J.C.W. and “the Firm” was
born, Wenman became a director. In
1935 he retired, general-manager and
associate-director and producer. The
other day at Caloundra (Q.), 78, he took
his last curtain-call.
• •
“Macnell”: Currently manoeuvring
round Manus, wearing his flag in carrier
Sydney, Rear-Admiral Roy Russell
Dowling, D. 5.0., generally overseeing
sea-air exercises from the bridge of the
ship of which, in 1950, he was the first
captain. An officer with a wholly per-
sonal power-of-command (“thorough
gent.” being his oft-used lower-deck
encomium), Dowling had for his first War
II ship British cruiser Naiad, executive-
officer. Mediterranean, night-action, and
a torpedo streaking phosphorescently for
Naiad’s bilges; Dowling an hour and a
half amongst the phosphorescence. Next
ship (in command) cruiser Hobart, refitting
from her torpedo damage in the Solo-
mons ; Dowling, gunnery-officer by trade,
working his new crew up to battle-
efficiency in double-quick time, to test it
at Cebu, Tarakan, Labuan and other
places, anchoring finally in Tokio Bay. A
quietly-mannered 53, Dowling was pro-
moted rear-admiral last year: he
goes shortly to the R.A.N.’s high com-
mand, First Naval Member and Chief
of the Naval Staff, relieving John Collins
—gunnery handing over to gunnery.
• •
“H.A.L.”: Frederic Wood - Jones,
passed-on in England at 75, graduated
B.Sc. from London University in 1903,
and next year did the same in medicine
and surgery. After three years as medical-
officer on the Keeling-Cocos islands he
served as anthropologist during a survey
in Nubia. In 1919 he accepted the Chair
of Anatomy at Adelaide University, fol-
lowed that with the Professorship of
Anthropology at the University of
Hawaii, and that with the Chair of
Anatomy at Melbourne University. In
1952 came his last job—curator of the
world-famed Hunterian collection of
anatomical specimens at the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons. Wherever he went
Wood-Jones spent almost all his spare
time in the field collecting specimens. He
believed that, in the scientific sense, the
two most interesting areas in Australia
were the north coast of Tasmania and
the west coast of South Australia. He
was the author of many scientific papers ;
his book. The Mammals of South Aus-
tralia, is the standard work on the subject.
In a lighter field his Unscientific Essays
is a literary delight. He married a
daughter of George Clunies-Ross, of
Keeling-Cocos, who survives him'. His
death-notice in the London “Times” con-
tained a final—and typical—Woods-
Jonesism: “My last wish: no flowers or
letters.”
COLIN RODERICK, author, editor,
now Doctor of Philosophy from
Queensland University—the institu-
tion’s first. Awarded for his
biography of poetess Mrs. Campbell
Praed, supplemented by “Ralph
Rashleigh” and “Jemmy Green in
Australia.”
Sighted in Fremantle for the first time
since 1939, Captain Valentine Wenk, a
German skipper who has had 12 of his
65 years in internment camps. His ship,
the four-year-old 11,000-tonner Heidel-
berg, is the first regular German mer-
chantman to drop anchor in an Australian
port since the late war. Wenk was in-
terned for five years in N.S.W. in War I,
and for seven years in Indonesia, India
and Canada in Hitler’s.
Gunnery-instructors at Flinders Naval
Depot are pretty taut hands when it
comes to getting a body moving. But the
Navy’s p.-t. instructors are men to be
dreaded—never heard of a “run up the
line,” a morning-after or like excuses for
laxness. And the chief of these demons,
the man with a fetish for fitness, with a
voice that makes a whipcrack sound
pianissimo—Alan Rupert Saltmarsh, p.-t.
instructor for close on 30 years, senior
P.T.
commissioned-bosun, R.A.N. Holding a
list of athletic records almost as high as
he can jump—and that was high enough
to win the pole-vault championship of the
British First Cruiser Squadron, at the
time Australia won the Mediterranean
Fleet regatta —Saltmarsh served in the
first Sydney after War I, was in her name-
sake when she visited Gallipoli in 1936,
and again in the first two years of Hitler’s
war, and is a qualified fencing-master of
the Royal Navy. Now he confines him-
self to whipcracking his large team of
whipcrackers at Flinders and to represent-
ing the Navy at golf in inter-Service
sports.
• •
More than a bit of* the bee about
Arnold Toynbee—for the past 33 years
he has applied himself to producing a
three-million-word history of mankind’s
civilisations. It is due to be published in
London this month. As well as that little
effort, he’s found time to take a D. Litt.
from Cambridge, to put in five years as
Professor of Modern Greek at London
University, to work for the British Foreign
Office in War 11, Director of Foreign
Research, and to write a dozen other
books, mainly historical. In 1913 he
married a daughter of Professor Gilbert
Murray.
• •
Into the Silence:
In London, at 60, Air-Chief-Marshal Sir
Roderic Hill, one of the R.A.F.’s brilliant
technical flyers. He won M.C. for shooting
down, under heavy fire, an important German
observation-balloon; and, while in charge ot
Britain’s experimental flying department after-
wards, won A.F.C. and Bar for test-piloting-
In the critical days of 1940-41, he was in
charge of technical development for the Air
Ministry, and in 1943-44 took command ot
No. 12 Fighter Group. While in this post he
devised a successful counter-attack for dealing
with V-l rockets. Among other pioneering
developments, he is credited with being the
first man (in 1922) to experiment with a radio-
telephone receiver in an aircraft.
At 88, Walter Ernest Burke, journalist by
profession and photographer of note (the nrst
Fellow of the Royal Photographic Society ot
Great Britain) who crossed to Australia from
New Zealand fifty years ago, to found tne
advertising agency bearing his name, one o
Sydney’s earliest. He bred stock as well, pa •
ticularly high-grade Jersey cattle, on his Belletaire
Stud at Appin, N.S.W.
In Canberra, at 38, Dr. R. S Wilson, atomic
scientist. Well-known for his radar and atomic-
energy researches in World War 11, he came >
Canberra in 1952, to be chief-assistant o .Pro-
fessor Oliphant at the Australian National
University.


WARY
Ijfn AT 7 S 7W CTHBR CHAP
6y H/MS£t-F Oy£f§, TriBRB FOR*, ?
Qm, hbs m/ eoyfßieup
papp>/ 7 hb po£sn!t u<£ e&NCr
/f
INT&ODUCBP TO O\fLBNiVS %


ABORIGINALITIES
/'"'HIGK was rather pleased with him-
self. “My boy’s got to the stage
when he wants to make things,” he told
me. “I didn’t want to stop him, because I
don’t want him to grow up into one of
those useless hounds that can’t make or
mend anything about the place, but you
know what kids are for dropping tools
just where they had ’em last. Anyhow, I
got a brainwave: I told him he had to
“Now what do We do with the coffee ?”
write on the wall of the shed where every
tool belonged. So long as I could walk
in and see no hooks vacant he could keep
using the tools, but when he started for-
getting to put ’em back, that was going to
be the end. It’s working lovely. Come
and have a look.” It was a neat arrange-
ment, and I didn’t mean him to hear my
chuckle. However, he did, and inquired
the reason. “Well,” I grinned, “It’s that
spelling: ‘t-r-o-w-l-e’.” Chick clucked
despairingly. “X dunno,” he deplored,
diving for the crayon. “They don’t seem
to teach ’em anything at school these
days.” He crossed the “e” off. —“Fair
Mac.”
* « * *
“Quo Vadis”: We had stopped at one
of those old Queensland wayside pubs
of Cobb and Co. vintage, a
wooden one-story structure set
on a sunbaked plain. When
Mrs. Bung poured our brew I
noticed what looked like a small
sponge in the bottom of the
glass beer-jug. I tactfully drew
her attention to the presence
of the fungus. She informed
us tartly it was a piece of cheese
“to keep the froth doon.” It did,
too. Not - a speck of foam
appeared on the surface of the
leaden-looking mixture set
before us ; not a light-hearted
bubble rose in the glass,
♦ * *
“Bass”: A sailor who carried
a small octopus on his back out
of the sea and on to a Darwin
beach complained soon after of
a dry throat, and of pains in his
stomach and arms. Within an
hour he was dead, and the Perth
daily that reported it said it
was believed the octopus stung
and killed him. It didn’t, be-
cause octopuses don’t sting, and
there’s absolutely nothing toxic
about them. There are plenty
of things in the sea that do
sting, and are highly toxic, such
as Portuguese men-o’-war,
stone-fish, stingrays and sea-
snakes, but their stings produce
excruciating pain almost immedi-
ately, and the most Spartan victim would
be unable to conceal it. The unfortunate
sailor at Darwin didn’t mention any sting.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The information recently,
passed on by a Sydney newspaper column-
ist that stuffed larks could be bought
in the city at 17s. a tin would no doubt
have aroused the dormant bird-lover in
me to vehement though futile ire—if it
had not set my memory clanking back
about 30 years. Then a dressed-poultry
merchant used to tour our poultry-farm-
ing district at regular intervals to buy
birds for his city clientele. I saw him
as he drove back after one quest, and
at least one of the crates on his spring-
cart was well-stocked. The next time he
came around I heard him telling Dad: “It
was a risk, but it came off —and paid
well, I gambled on my opinion that very
few of the upstarts who dine at flash
city hotels have ever seen a quail at close
quarters. And fewer still have ever tasted
one.” I’ve often wondered since whether
even a connoisseur of high-class grub
could tell the difference between quail
and two-months-old bantam,
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Thanks to Agnes Millrose
(B. 22/9/’54) for bringing to those who
can feel it an hour “Up Top.” Born
beside mountain-ash and treeferns, I too
felt that “here is perfection”; but feet
grew itchy and, after years of extending
interests through all the variations be-
tween desert and jungle, the day came
when the last twisted snowgum was left
behind and you had only granite boulders
and the wind for company. Then came
that tingling sensation of exquisite free-
dom ; petty frictions, timetables, time it-
self seemed to lie miles away behind the
faint horizon. The little creek rattling
from beneath late snowdrifts seemed as
far removed from tidal waters as the
stars themselves, and the lone kestrel
hovering above the snowgrass looked as
though he had poised there for ever.
“I’m not interested in ships—tell me when you see a taxi."
Not even the desert brings a deeper sense
of timelessness, and the tonic relaxation
must be felt to be believed. Thanks again,
A.M.
* « « *
“Horseless Horseman”: Abos in bush
cricket (B. 8/9/’54)? At McKinlay
(N.Q.) in the annual match between
Toorak and Eulolo stations we played
Ted, a black stockman and, incidentally,
husband of Toorak Nellie, in her day
the finest-looking gin in the north.
Although among the jackeroos we had
ex-public-school bats, most of Toorak’s
total of 14 was hit by Ted. He should
have scored more, but, because he had
never played before, he didn’t know he
had to run. He was a first-class out-
fielder. The raw blacks we used to play
in nor’-west Australia had the same
natural talent for the game. I’ll always
remember that McKinlay match for one
feature: it was about 114 in the water-
bag and a utility went round the outfield
supplying drinks to fieldsmen all
through the game.
H* * ♦
“C.T.”: That zero at the end
of .410 which puzzles “Sebak”
(B. 15/9/’54) indicates that the
calibre of the gun-barrel has been
exactly determined to three
places of decimals, and
although a thousandth of an
inch doesn’t seem much to a lot
of people, it’s quite an imposing
distance to a precision engineer,
which is what a gunsmith has to
be. As for three-thou., in the
case of the .303 rifle, being
“pretty exact,” there are plenty
of cases of engineering work
being done to much closer limits.
If “Sebak” has a look at a table
of Imperial standard wire-gauges
he’ll see plenty of sizes quoted
there to four places of decimals
—that is, in ten-thousandths of
an inch. In many of the finer
gauges, from 27-gauge upward,
there is as little as eight ten-
thousandths of an inch difference
between each gauge, and it’s to
that standard of accuracy that
the die-maker must work when
drilling the dies through which the
wire is drawn to its final diameter.
Yet even that, exact though it may
seem to the layman, is regarded
as a pretty coarse measurement
in some sections of the precision-instru-
ment-making trade. They prefer to work
in wave-lengths of light!
“Gulliver”: The gas mentioned by
“O’Johnno” as being produced from gar-
bage and used for lighting Launceston’s
Angel Inn in 1844 (B. 15/9/’54) was very
probably marsh-gas or methane, which is
produced by rotting vegetable-matter,
and frequently bubbles up from swamp-
land or bog. Methane, compressed into
bottles, is widely used for cooking
purposes in small fishing- and pleasure-
boats, and is burned in an ordinary gas-
stove ; it has an unmistakable sickly-
sweet smell and burns with a very blue
flame. Sydney’s old Balmain colliery
was for some years one source of supply.
Marsh-gas occasionally rises in small
clouds which glow with a cold, bluish
light under certain conditions, a phe-
nomenon which gave rise to the legend
of the “will o’ the wisp” which was sup-
posed to lure shelter-seeking travellers
to their doom in the depths of the morass.
Though it’s apparently seen fairly often
in parts of Europe and in Ireland, I’ve
never seen or heard of it in Australia,
though I’ve lived in some swampy areas.
“Spur W.”: Don’t know the dress-
habits of bankers (B. 15/9/’54), but I do
know a jackeroo who rolled in from a
local hop a couple of minutes before he
had to report for his orders. He had
time to change his trousers, but not his
shirt, and he spent the day riding round
lambing-ewes in a dress-shirt.
* * * *
“Tolai” (Rabaul): My house-boy is
mission-trained and can read and write in
pidgin English. Going into town for the
day, I gave him one key of the house
and kept one, telling him when he had
finished cleaning-up he could lock the
house and go off for the rest of the day.
When we arrived home in the evening
the boy was gone and a sheet of paper
was pinned on the door. We went in and
read his note: “Me fasim door. Key
stop along paper under table belong me
in house belong me.” And I had thought
he was a boy of intelligence.
* ♦ ' • *
“5.4 E.”: The “part-rouseabout, part-
farmhand” jackeroo of today (B-
-22/9/’54) is usually a lad in need of a job
rather than experience, who is sufficiently
house broken to eat in the homestead ana
thus eliminate the cost of building
separate quarters, which a station-nano
would require. As often as not he s
supplied by a registry-office, or goes to
one for a job. The type “G.” describes
usually got his position on the recommen-
dation of one of the high officers or a
big woolbroking firm, and tri
wasn’t easy to get, as a lad wno
turned out badly reflected _d iscrd 1
on the firm which nominated him. w
was, in fact, a cadet, and was called one
in the early days, and expected either
become an overseer at the age of about --
or 24 or to start on a property of his own-
With some stations, a G.P.S. backgrou
was essential; one in the Mon
(N.S.W.) went even further, and only
accepted boys from a certain school
owner’s Alma Mater, naturally. >
whatever the method of selection,
thing was always the same: the l ads
to learn to live with men and lead m
and they won’t pick up too touch
that last on the mixed farms or too y.
DROUGHT AT TRIODIA
The saltbush is all eaten out;
Bluebush and buckbush too.
They cannot stand so bad a drought
No matter what we do.
The roly-poly cannot last — «
It went I know not when;
The parrakeilia’s going fast,
And what will we do then?
Kyabra’s deep and so’s Glengyle;
Kalid-a-warry’s good.
The mickenries fail, but not the bores;
We knew they never would.
We need some feed. The cows are dry.
Each helpless mother starves.
The poor, dumb brutes just stagger round
And cannot rear their calves.
The stock are dying-off by scores;
’Twould melt a heart of stone.
We cannot find a killer now—•
They’re only skin-and-bone.
Our horses stand round hollow-eyed,
All gaunt and thin and weak.
They’d ask us why we let them starve,
If they could only speak.
The blacks predict an “old-man” drought,
And surely they should know.
Their tribe has been here long enough—
A thousand years or so.
“King Billy” yarns a lot of Sturt
Whose trip’s remembered yet.
Sturt worried through an “old-man”
drought;
At last he had to get.
Galahs have gone, and ground-birds too;
Dingoes and crows remain;
But how these pests can live and thrive
I’d rather not explain.
The stock-routes one and all are closed;
The “Birdsville Track” is bare;
And even up round Boulia
The feed’s not even fair.
The heart grows sick with hope deferred —•
We wait and watch in vain
For storm-clouds piling in the north,
The long-expected rain.
We’ve simply got to stick it out;
Yet ’twould your heart perplex
To try to keep your stock alive
On “old-man” spinifex.
It’s no good grieving o’er the past.
We should have left last year!
We thought the drought must surely
break,
So now we’re anchored here.
QUEENSLAND.
G. L. PAINE.


■CIFTY years ago Grandpa bought a
1 spear from an old Malay, who
said it had belonged to his grandfather,
and that when it was made a “pawang”
had put a magic on it so that it would
never rust. It was a well-made weapon,
the blade and handle joined by a brass
candlestick, no doubt a relic of pirate
days. It certainly resisted rust over that
half-century, and we assumed that the old
“pawang” had accidentally found how to
make stainless steel. Last July an out-
of-season cyclone roared along our
Queensland coast, blackening the trees
for over 100 miles. Exposed iron was
rusted and pitted, and our “magic” spear,
shut safe indoors, is a mass of rust. But
no discredit to the old “pawang,” for a
couple of our modern “stainless” knives
are in the same condition. Locals reckon
there was something mighty peculiar
about that cyclone.—“Jadi.”
♦ * • *
“Nakh”; Strange the different
obsessions children get, quite apart from
the skills they’re supposed to learn at
school. Max and Bruce Dalton, of
Mepunga East, near Warrnambool (Vic.),
love killing snakes. If they see Joe
Blake’s tail disappearing down a hole they
thrust a hand in, grab it and dispatch the
reptile with their scout-belts. In the past
few years they have rid the place of
hundreds. The other day Sunday
motorists passing the State-school pulled
up almost to a man to inspect the
phenomenon—3o blacks and tigers hang-
ing on a fence. A day’s bag for the two
boys.
* * • *
“Kros”; I think I can solve the
mystery of the white faces on the
aboriginal paintings of the sky-god
Wondjina in the Kimberleys (B.
15/9/’54), They don’t represent the visit
of white men, nor were they painted by
whites. Most native races all over the
world have legends of white gods; which
fact has at times been of great advantage
to white explorers and adventurers. For
instance, such legends of white gods
helped considerably the conquest of the
Aztecs by Cortes and the Incans by
“Should be a beaut corroboree!”
Pizarro. Those white-faced Kimberley
paintings of a god would seem to indicate
that Binghi also had his blond pantheon,
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: A variation of the idea
of filling a hole in order to get out of it
(lately recorded by Aboites) was played
in an American engineering works some
time ago, when the engineers faced the
problem of getting a massive piece of
machinery into one—its foundations, to
be exact. Not only did they lack a crane
sufficiently powerful for the job, but it
was essential that the machine should be
lowered evenly into place. When just
about every slide-rule was red-hot and
there wasn’t a sheet of squared paper
for miles that hadn’t been covered with
sketches, some galoot came up with one
of those ideas that are so obvious and
simple they just couldn’t occur to a high-
paid genius with a string of letters after
his name. So they filled the hole to the
top with blocks of ice from the local ice-
works, skidded the doover on to it, and
pumped the water out as the ice melted,
Silly, isn’t it?
CUCKOO IN THE SUBURBS
The cuckoo fs a conjurer—he only has to trill
But once across the morning and my heart,
escaping, will
Run hand in hand in memory, downhill;
But once from out a city park, when night is
burnt away
In mounting flames of morning, and dark trees
stir and sway
And I return to cloud-land, for the day,
To where the careless country roads go wander-
ing crosswise
In undulating ups and downs, and lift and fall
and rise
As crookedly as the cuckoo flies,
Till at last they end in nothingness, stumble and
cease to be.
Lost in blue oblivion as boundless as the sea;
We are in the redgum country now, the sheep
country.
A lion-colored country, a land of seek-and-hide.
Where the sun moves and the shadows move
and the great trees abide,
And silence speaks, and little else beside.
Oh, the brown sheep and the bracken, the sharp
peaks and piles
Of the Grampians against the blue, the bastions
and defiles
Of the range that runs for seventy silver miles!
Beyond the westward ranges the wheat paddocks
lie. «
There are no smoky smudges where the country
clouds go by,
Nothing but some lost cuckoo in the sky.
But off upon his own affairs my wanderer has
sped.
And left me with the road-map of Arcadia in
my head.
Yes, the cuckoo is a conjurer, as I said.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
GAMP TROUBLE
r pO the suburban train-traveller an
umbrella is the easiest thing to lose.
You enter the train and fold it up with
the water still pouring from it, so you
hook it over the seat in front. Then
some galah gets in and insists with a
deplorable lack of consideration in lean-
ing back until his head comes up against
your umbrella-handle, and he registers
resentment at its presence by turning
round and glaring. So you take the hint
and remove it.
The damned thing’s too soggy to put
between your knees, so you hook it on
to the window-ledge and get stuck into
your paper. By the time you reach your
destination the sun will be shining
“With the Filtermaster we eliminate everything but hot air."
brightly. So you get up and leave it there.
I had done this several times and it was
getting monotonous. Moreover, the
department never seemed to be able to
find my brolly, though I would person-
ally give them a detailed description of it.
So when I lost another during a recent
rainy spell I decided that the written
word couldn’t be less efficacious than
the verbal appeal. At least there would
be a record on paper of my loss, and I
reasoned that if the file grew—as it must
—to sufficiently outsize proportions that
it became an embarrassment to the staff
I might be given one —anybody’s—so
long as my protests might be dammed,
as I would already long have been in the
other spelling.
The Manager,
Railway Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
I left my umbrella in the train that
departed from Snertly for the city at
8.32 a.m. on the 11th inst. It was
equipped with a ferrule and a short length
of tape on the end of which was a small
ring that —theoretically at least —
would hook over the button to contain
the umbrella in symmetrical shape on
being tightly rolled.
Has such a rain-diverter been handed
in? If so, would you indicate when it
will be available.
Yours faithfully
I received an answer about a fortnight
later. *
Dear Sir,
With reference to your request for
information regarding an umbrella
which you claim to have left in a train
which left Snertly at 8.32 a.m, on the
11th inst. You are apparently confused.
There is no train scheduled to leave that
station for the city at that time. Are
you sure you didn’t travel by bus?
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager,
It seemed to call for an explanation.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
Further to your LP2B /11282 /54 of
the 28th inst. regarding my lost
umbrella. Had you given my letter of
14th idem anything more than the most
cursory perusal you would have observed
that I made no mention of the scheduled
time of departure, but the actual time.
The alleged service you run being
operated by the Government, it naturally
follows that the train wasn’t on time.
It should have left at 8.16.
Was my umbrella on it? If so, I would
like to recover it quickly.
Yours faithfully
I received a reply in the department’s
good time.
Dear Sir,
With reference to yours of the 18th
inst. It is noted that you express a
desire to recover your umbrella. May
we point out that if the article is in
such a parlous state of disrepair it would
be a much sounder business proposition
for you to attend and bid at one of the
auction-sales of lost property we hold
periodically, and at which umbrellas in
vast quantities are disposed of, sold in
parcels of 12.
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
In reply to yours of the 24th ult. Were
I one who nurtured a passion for the
possession of a multiplicity of umbrellas,
or longed to give expression to a desire
to be different from my fellows by
walking along the street holding up two
or more of them open, the suggestion
contained in your letter (ref.
LP2B/11282/54) might have aroused in
me a ready response. As it is, I do not
include the foregoing among the major
sports in which I indulge.
I must therefore emphatically reject it.
At the same time, may I again inquire
if my umbrella has turned up?
Yours faithfully....
Dear Sir,
Further to yours of the 12th inst.
What was the color of your umbrella?
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office,
Dear Sir,
It would have given me great pleasure
to inform you, in reply to yours of the
29th ult., that my umbrella was of the
perfectly heavenly shade of Ming-blue,
and that it had a ducky little dusty-pink
tassel as a contrasting note, for that
would have afforded solid proof that in
the matter of fashions for men I could
never be accused of possessing a hide-
bound conservatism, I should have
thought, however, that even a railway
official would be awake to the realities
of life to the extent that he would be
aware that such a daring innovation is
not yet a reality.
My umbrella is black. Whether it
is off-black, dark-black, light-black,
medium-black, dirty-black, or the green-
tinged black which may sometimes be
observed as a patina on old bowler-
hats, I regret I am unable to determine.
Trusting this description will, help you
locate my umbrella, which for me has a
strong sentimental value —it was the one
the wife’s sister hit me over the head
with.
Yours faithfully
My letter apparently put things, as it
were, in train, for I received a quick
reply—-It took only 10 days.
Dear Sir,
Ref. yours of the 20th inst. Did yours
have a crook handle?
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
Certainly not. The handle of my
umbrella was in perfect working order
when I last had it. If it has deteriorated
during the time it has been in the custody
of the department I shall certainly hold
the commissioner responsible, and will
in due course either claim full compensa-
tion or demand that the commissioner
have the handle restored to its pristine
state.
Yours faithfully..,.
Dear Sir,
Yours of the 13th inst. Was the handle
a bent one, in the form of an inverted
U?
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
I see what you mean. Yes, except that
one leg of the U would be elongated, to
represent the handle.
Yours faithfully....
Dear Sir,
We regret to inform you that the
umbrella we had in mind isn’t yours.
This one had a bird’s head at the end
of a straight handle.
Yours faithfully,
B. Snook,
Manager.
It wasn’t till we had a sudden down-
pour one morning that I cleared the
matter up.
The Manager,
Lost Property Office.
Dear Sir,
You may cease looking for my
umbrella. It turned up in the overcoat
closet, having been obscured by my golf-
cap.
Yours faithfully.
BO.


CAPSTAN'S|
tciAL'Pwn blend/
I"*
m
makes
Capstan your
DEPENDABLE
cigarette
Time for a
CAPSTAN
they're blended better
175 D -B-54-
Your favourite
mild
VIRGINIA
Capstan is your de-
pendable cigarette;
dependable because
Capstan's OWN
blend of finest
VIRGINIA tobaccos
always gives you
keen smoking
pleasure.
JACK
ASH
Circular Charts for ail lyp««
of Recording Instruments
for mjr clam of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS ■ Specialty
o*suiimN%u
OUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
FOR PRIVATE SALE
Under instructions from Sir Russell Grimwade
"WESTERNER)" FRANKSTON
Adjoining Frankston Golf Club
GENTLEMAN’S COUNTRY RESIDENCE
with 113 acres Well Improved Land.
The Two Storey Granite Residence is Beautifully appointed ana
has 9 Main Booms, 2 Bathrooms and Offices, Double Garage,
Bungalow and Farm Buildings.
£26,500
Enquiries strictly only to Sole Agents in < conjunction
ABERCROMBY & BEATTY PTY. LTD.,
314 Collins Street. M 1195, MUIBSI, MU1964.
R. T. EDGAR & SON PTY. LTD.,
108 Queen Street. MUIOOO, MU3253, MTJI97S.
you get down
to bedrock cost!
FREE
Write to —
Wunderlich
Limited, Baptist
Street, Redfern,
for a copy of
the Small Homes
Booklet.
READILY
AVAILABLE
FROM LOCAL
DISTRIBUTORS.
«
URABESTOS
ASBESTOS-CEMENT BUILDING SHEETS
You save money when you
build a "Durabestos" Asbestos
Cement timber frame home —save
by using "Durabestos" for exterior
walls, interior walls and ceilings—-
save on foundation costs as well.
"Durabestos" is adaptable to all
design trends, easy to erect and
paint, fire resistant and vermin
p roo f_ieleal for Australian homes.
CHILPRtHt
i
fMIH IUB/.
tMTRt {
Livinc nn
7“ 15
No.
144
Business. Rollery. Ete.
The Long-term View
AUSTRALIANS, a large
number of whom like
nothing quite as much as the
exhilaration of a gamble or a
boom, are going through a rather
flat period just now. The unpre-
cedented oil- and uranium-share
boom has gone off the boil for
the present; the normal
problems of proving, developing
and commercially exploiting
mineral deposits have now to be
faced, and the pictures being
formed in speculators’ minds are
of a much more down-to-earth
nature than the excitingly
imaginative ones of six or nine
months ago, when a great deal
less was known about either oil
or uranium prospects in the
Commonwealth. It needs some-
thing of a really sensational
nature —such as the striking of
commercial oil somewhere —to
revive animation in the mining-
share market.
Flatness is evident, to a lesser
extent, among industrial shares.
In this section of the share-
market there has been much less
speculation, while, on the other
hand, dividends have been gener-
ally better, and some bonus-
issues have been forthcoming.
But increased dividends and
other benefits have been accepted
without a great deal of jubila-
tion. F. J. Walker’s 15 p.c. has
been followed by a weakening
of the 10s, shares to 245. 6d., to
yield 6.2 p.c. Possibly one of Aus-
tralia’s present serious problems
—drought—enters into market
calculations here, the F. J.
Walker business depending upon
the availability of fat-stock. In
other cases the export-price
situation, affecting wheat and
wool particularly, comes into
share-valuations. And, overall,
the credit and import situation is
having a general influence.
The Commonwealth Bank has
sought trading-bank co-operation
in restraining credit-expansion,
following a period in which
credit was made available fairly
freely. It is pretty evident that
some sections of the community
will be compelled to seek more
bank help later this financial
year, especially if drought con-
tinues and land-product prices
decline further. And the banks
will be obliged to render aid.
The less-needy cannot reason-
ably expect to get all the finance
they may feel they can use
while such a pinch is on.
If the export-price situation
gets no worse, and the season
improves, then the credit posi-
tion may develop into nothing
more upsetting than a steadying
of previous expansion. The
central bank aims at a banking
system in which there are
“sufficient, but not more than
sufficient, funds to meet a
steadily expanding economy.”
It seems likely, with a smaller
surplus of rural income prob-
able, and with the mining share-
market overbought, that support
for investment shares may not
be as vigorous as company
profits, dividends and reduced
taxation might suggest. There is
little to indicate that shares will
go up during this financial year
from the pressure of investment
funds alone.
But, on the other hand, busi-
ness itself looks like continuing
at a brisk pace, notwithstanding
some dull spots here and there.
During the first three months of
the new financial year a number
of industries have reported better
turnovers than during the closing
months of 1953-54. But those
depending on credit-sales may
find that consumer - credit
facilities will not be so readily
available later on.
Taking the long-term view,
which is what one should nearly
always do in buying industrial
stocks—even if it is hoped to
“What Would you charge for a smaller job with, say , one
triangle and a couple of balls?”
make a quick turnover and
profit—the main problem in
Australia is costs of production
and transport. Their reduction
in turn depends to an extent on
the maintenance of rational
government. (A change from
the “Labor” Administration in
N.S.W. would seem almost
inevitably to promise an
improvement in the costs situa-
tion ; but no N.S.W. election is
due until 1956.)
Costs generally have steadied
in Australia over the last year,
and in 1953-54 industry was able
to do something which it has
been unable to do for many
years—to plough-back a con-
siderable amount of profit with
the object of restoring and
extending manufacturing
capacity. Industry has a fair
chance of doing the same thing
this year. And provided such a
proportion of the national
income is managed to be retained
by the proprietary side of
industry over the next decade,
some real progress should be
seen in development of a capital
nature and in investment
expansion.
Well-selected industrial shares
appear to have better prospects
now than they have had for
many years. Population is grow-
ing and efficiency is improving.
There is more rehabilitation to
be done than may appear on the
surface, but a few more years of
stable Federal government, and
excellent results may be achieved
—bigger output, bigger turnover,
more capital-issues and better
rewards for those who make
industrial expansion possible by
investing their savings.
Uranium Transport Costs
As mentioned here over and
over again, transport costs will
be a major problem in uranium-
mining and -treatment at out-of-
the-way places. The North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp expects
that the cost of transporting its
ore (of lower value than previ-
ously indicated) from the Sleis-
beck area (in Arnhem Land,
N.T.) to the Rum Jungle treat-
ment - plant would be
uneconomic, and therefore, if
enough ore is developed, a
treatment-plant will have to be
erected on the spot.
Government treatment-plants
have cost millions. The share-
market withdrew much of its
support for Nauc scrip following
the board’s announcement, and
the shares slumped from 30s. to
20s. Prospects for all other
uranium issues were revised by
speculators in the light of prob-
able transport difficulties.
More and more mining ven-
tures are becoming a matter for
sober economic study rather
than the subject of highly
imaginative speculation.
Oil Search
The ss. shares of Oil Search,
Ltd,, at 20s. look the most attrac-
tive gamble in the oil-scrip
market. Even at this figure the
Australasian Petroleum venture
is valued at £B3 million, but, as
oil gambles go, that is compara-
tively modest in view of the
expenditure involved.
Wilcolator (Aust.), Ltd.
Formed in May, 1947, Wil-
colator (Aust.), Ltd. (its factory
is at East Keilor, Vic,), asked for
public money in February, 1949.
Its objects were to “produce
under modern conditions a com-
plete range of thermostatic con-
trols for domestic and industrial
purposes.” Though no U.S. capi-
tal was put into the co., a licens-
ing arrangement with the Wil-
colator Co., U.S.A., resulted in
80 p.c. of sales in the initial
stages being reproductions of
American thermostatic con-
trols. Today 75 p.c. of sales is
derived from products arising
from the co.’s own research, on
which no royalty is paid.
In the formative years
materials problems, strikes,
credit-restriction and a recession
hampered earning-capacity.
Last term was busy for the
electrical-appliance trades, and
Wilcolator’s turnover leapt 106
p.c., notwithstanding a reduc-
tion in price of one major pro-
duct ; efficiency increased, and
net profit at £50,174 represented
23 p.c. on capital (£216,952, all
in ords.). An ord. div. of p.c.
was paid, and finances benefited
by the remainder. The balance-
sheet is tidy and comfortable.
The better year has brought a
lift in the market for the ss.
ords. Around par earlier this
year, they are now changing
hands at Bs. The current term
has opened favorably.
Masonite Corporation
With a fourth press-unit in
operation during the year,
Masonite Corporation (Aust.),
Ltd., showed a rise from
£393,436 to £527,687 in gross
profit for 1953-54. After writ-
ing-off the substantial sum of
£92,310 for depreciation (£53,258
in the previous year) and setting
aside £157,324 for taxation
(£105,152), as well as unchanged
sums of £50,000 for replacement
of depreciating assets and
£lO,OOO for employees’ welfare


THE CONVENTION
CHOSE...
TO BE SURE OF THE FACTS
NOT A TAPE RECORDER —NOT A CONVENTIONAL
DISC TYPE
The Dimafon proved an outstanding success in
recording accurately and instantly ALL business
discussed at the recent Laundry Convention.
Dimafon is renowned for ease of operation and
reliability—no part of your correspondence is
“fluffed” if you dictate direct to the Dimafon, your
secretary can stop, start or re-play the machine and
be definite that the transcribed notes are accurate
in every detail.
If your day is a nerve-racking race against time,
you owe it to yourself to investigate the Dimafon
method. It makes the stenographer’s work far
easier than transcribing from note-books ever could.
Measures only 4Jin. high. Packs into handsome
carrying case.
Guaranteed and Serviced by
CHARTRES LTD.
POST THIS TO-DAY Phone M 0425
J—• —< « —I m m I—( N—l >"■> M N- mm mm mm -a
| To CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St, Sydney, j
| Please contact me and arrange to demonstrate the Dimafon.
I It is clearly understood that this places me under no obligation.
NAME
i ADDRESS
!■ im* )»i« »
Discus thrower hits space
As this young lady hits the space bar of her typewriter,
does she ever think o£ the time when she threw the
discus to become Victorian Junior Women’s Champion?
Probably not, for nowadays her hands are busy typing
letters of credit in a Bank of New South Wales branch.
Her work is an essential part of the business of
financing exports and imports.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands work in the “Wales” —
providing the banking services essential to modern
trade and industry. They are willing to work for
you, too.
Hr
V&
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
i
i
t m
NEW
DiC 11Q^
12 YEARS TO COMPILE-
NOW READY
yams
ran 7 days’
nta
BCAM/MATHW
Thumb Indexed
for Instant
Reference.
• Overlapping
Bevelled Bind-
ing protects
pages.
• Silk Head
and Tail-Bands
give added
strength.
• Stained Top
and Edges pre-
serve pages
from finger-
marks.
• Decorative
Spine in Real
Sold for ele-
gance.
• De Luxe Bind-
ing in Rich Red
Moroquette.
FREE!
"A Manual of
Good English."
318 pages, value
10/6. It is pre-
sented to every
purchaser of the
Dictionary. For
all who want
to read, write
and speak
correctly.
150,000 References, 1,504 Pages a
21 Supplementary Sections
Essential for HOME
SCHOOL • OFFICE • CROSSWORDS
EXAMINE this great New Reference Dictionary
in your own home for 7 days. It is absolutely
up-to-date. Every word in our language has
been carefully scrutinised and the definitions
redrafted and revised where necessary in the
light of modern usage. Full pronunciations
are given. In addition there are 190 pages
comprising 21 self-contained reference sec-
tions:—l,934 Words and Phrases in common
use from Latin, Greek and Modern Foreign
Languages. Prefixes and Suffixes. Proverbs
and Quotations. Mathematical Symbols._ 1,783
Abbreviations. Musical Signs and Abbreviations.
Metric System. Correct Ceremonious Forms of
Address. 827 Synonyms and Antonyms.
Common .English Christian Names. Guide to
the English Language. 1,026 Biographical
Dictionary Entries. Greek Alphabet. Russian
Alphabet. 424 Entries in Dictionary of Classical
Mythology. Pronouncing Vocabulary of
Scripture Names. 957 Characters and Names
in English Literature. Some American
Pronunciations. Some American Spellings.
Historical Section (including 992 Dates and
Principal Events). Geographical Facts, etc.
The New Imperial Reference Dictionary will be
sent carriage paid for you to study at leisure
for seven days. Nothing to pay and no
obligation to purchase.
POST THE COUPON TO-DAYI
To GEORGE NEWNES (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 119 York St.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me THE NEW IMPERIAL REFERENCE
DICTIONARY. It is understood that I may return the work
within eight days. If I keep it, I will send a first payment of
6/- eight days after delivery, and 15/- monthly thereafter,
until £6/6/- has been paid. Cash price within eight days is £6.
Name
Address.
Place X where
Occupation.
Your Signature.
(or your Parent's signature if under 21) »BDI
and amenities, net profit was
£50,491 higher at £159,158.
(Plant, etc., figures in the
books at £484,830.)
Of the net profit, £96,350 be-
longed to ord. shareholders,
£62,808 to the deferreds. The
ord. portion represented a little
over 20 p.c. on ord. capital, but
the. ord. div. was kept at the
unchanged rate of \l\ p.c. (The
2s. 6d. deferreds are entitled to
half of the profits after the ords.
have had 7 p.c., and last year
were paid 3s. \\d. a share.)
Masonite’s selling-prices were
kept stable during 1953-54, and,
in spite of increased output,
demand continued to exceed
supply.
The board looks forward
“with confidence to another
very successful year of trading,”
and comments, with justification,
that the co.’s position is “par-
ticularly sound.”
The fact that deferred share-
holders (there are 166,656 de-
ferreds of 2s. 6d. each, against
479,168 ords. of £1 each) get
half the profits after 7 p.c. to
the ords. has meant that 10s. of
every £1 of new capital put up
by the ords. has been working
for the deferreds after 7 p.c. has
been declared on the ords.
Now that a greater proportion
of the profits is being ploughed-
back into the business, the de-
ferreds are contributing £-for-£
of undistributed profits (without
increasing their proportion in
further profits) in order to
finance new plant, etc., and so
promote earning-capacity.
On June 30 paid-up ord.
capital Was £479,168, deferred
£20,832; but total ord. funds
were £746,153, against the de-
ferreds’ funds of £200,099. The
more earnings are retained in
the business the greater will be
the proportion of deferred-
shareholders’ funds working for
the benefit of both shareholding
classes.
At 51s. the ords. yield a shade
under 5 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div.
basis. The scrip, for the rea-
sons already mentioned, is
mainly a holding proposition.
Further expenditure on plant is
contemplated, but it will be met
from bank accommodation and
reserved profits.
Ford Sherington
An excellent year by Ford
Sherington Holdings, Ltd.,
makers of Globite travel-goods,
with headquarters in Sydney,
Consolidated net profit was
£32,521, equal to 28.9 p.c. on
the £lOO,OOO of ord. capital
after allowing 8 p.c. (£3644) on
the £45,550 of prefs. The 10
p.c. ord. div. (a round £lO,OOO,
tax-free) left £18,877 to go to
reserves, which now stand in the
books at £183,539, subject to an
asset-item, “excess of cost over
par-value of shares in subsidiary
company, £75,000.” It is likely,
however, that all the assets in
the consolidated balance-sheet
are worth their full book-value,
more especially since the figures
of the South African subsidiary
are taken in on a £SA-£A basis,
though the S’African pound is
at a 25 p.c. premium over the
Australian pound. On book-
values net assets are equal t£
14s. 2d. per ss. share.
Freehold, plant and stocks
seem very conservatively valued.
And the cos. had £83,219 in
Government securities, cash, etc.,
at balance-day, against creditors
of various kinds for £54,772.
Tax-reserve stood at £28,635.
There are few more comfort-
able balance-sheets in Australia.
Some of the cash will be needed
this year to carry out building
programmes in Perth and Bris-
bane, where excellent sites have
already been acquired. The co.
will then own all its factories in
the seven operating centres in
Australia.
On June 30, after providing
for 1953-54 dividends, there
remained enough in tax-free
reserves to pay another 17.6 p.c.
on ord. capital. If profits keep
on growing as they have been
doing the co. should be easily
able to lift the div. when the
tax-free lay-by gives out —during
1955-56, if the 10 p.c. rate is
maintained. By then the benefit
of the new factories should start
being felt.
The ss. shares at 11s. 6d. re-
turn 4.3 p.c, (for the present tax-
free) on a 10 p.c. div. basis. If
the div. is lifted to 15 p.c. later
on the yield at the present
market would be 6.5 p.c. The
shares are attractive as a holding
proposition.
R. B. Davies Industries
Consolidated profit of R. B.
Davies Industries, Ltd. (with
headquarters in Sydney), for
1953-54 was £18,341 higher at
£78,109, and equal to 12 p.c. on
capital. The 8 p.c. div. is un-
changed. The upward sales
tendency has continued during
the first quarter of the new
financial year, and turnover of
Yorkshire Fittings (Aust.), in
which R. B. Davies has a half-
interest, is “increasing satisfac-
torily month by month.”
The R. B. Davies group is
the largest mass-producer of
builders’ hardware in the Com-
monwealth. It exports to
southern Africa, the West Indies,
New Zealand, Ceylon, Malaya,
Thailand and the South Sea
Islands.
Ex the Is. 7d. div., R. B.
Davies shares at 28s. yield 5.7
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Tasman Pulp and Paper
The rate for the $l6 million
borrowed from the U.S. Export-
Import Bank by Tasman Pulp
and Paper to cover the dollar cost
of plant, equipment, etc., is
4| p.c., or i p.c. more than
that paid for the £lO million
raised in London at the end of
last year to meet the sterling
cost. Every dollar will go into
American products and services.
Until the mills are in produc-
tion and profit-earning, investors
in the Tasman Co, and the N.Z.
Government will have to carry
this cost. For a time the Govern-
ment will be heavily committed
to see the co. through the con-
struction and establishment stage,
but ultimately the whole
liability will be Tasman’s, and the
State, as the biggest shareholder,
will then be in it with thousands
of others. To make everything
look safe and secure for the
Yanks, the Government will
draw on the dollars as required
and will pass them on to Tasman
to complete its purchases and to
pay American technical experts
hired for the project. Most of
the spending will be done next
year, and the loan will run for
13 years.
Sandwell and Co., of Van-
couver, is the brains behind the
engineering design of the mills,
and the Abitibi Power and
Paper Co., of Toronto, will be
sending a management team to
start newsprint-production and
train Tasman’s staff to raise
output quickly to the rated
capacity (75,000 tons a year).
Other American cos. taking a
hand are two contracting firms —
Merritt-Chapman and Scott
Overseas, Inc., and the Raymond
Concrete Pile Co. —which are in
partnership with the Fletcher
Construction Co. as builders of
the mills.
To repay the loan and con-
solidate the industry as a debt-
free enterprise, N.Z. will be de-
pendent on dollars now spent on
newsprint. The main benefits, in
the shape of dollar independence,
will not begin to accrue until the
industry’s second decade.
Of late, the Tasman Co. has
been basking in the sunshine of
public eulogy and encourage-
ment, and applications for its
first share-issue of 500,000 £1
ords., in Sept., came in so spon-
taneously that it could have
allotted the shares twice-over.
After earmarking 300,000 for
brokers, it rationed the others in
lots of 100. First dealings on the
market were at a premium of 9d.,
rising to Is. The two-million of
debenture-money wanted wasn’t
so easily raised, and £200,000 was
left with the underwriters.


Act now to
protect YOUR ESTATE through the years ahead
g
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint an
experienced Executor —such as the Union Trustee Company.
During nearly 70 years of administration of every class of
estate the Company has amassed a fund of experience such as
no one person could achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists,
the expert services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in
each of the three Eastern States is readily available —to provide
valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges are
moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain these services
at a personal interview —or you may prefer to write for a
copy of the Company’s free booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITS#
(Incorporated in Victor!*) Established 1883
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Aust. Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
CO diversified and widespread are the
activities of this big industrial group
that its fortunes are largely those of the
national economy itself. For these and
other reasons the scrip possesses all the
ingredients of a sound equity.
The organisation consists of parent
(holding co.) and 30-odd subsidiary and
associated concerns, whose operations
embrace a score or more different trades,
ranging from manufacture of a wide
variety of glass products—the line on
which the business grew up—to plastics,
refractories, structural and fabricated
steel and general engineering, etc. And
activities of the various units extend
throughout the Commonwealth out over
the Tasman to New Zealand and north to
Singapore and Bangkok ; and plans for
erection of a glass-containers factory in
Indonesia are under consideration.
Because of the marked post-war
growth, there has always been some
capital represented by assets which had
not developed full earning-power. Still,
turnover stepped along with growth of
output, and the div., which climbed by
halting steps from 6f p.c, in 1944 to 9
p.c. in 1949 and remained steady until
1953, was lifted to 10 p.c. last term.
Greatest benefit to shareholders, how-
ever, has been the issue of new scrip on
terms which, owing to the high price the
old shares fetched in the market, were
in the nature of bonuses.
Over the six years to June 30 last paid
capital increased by £3,873,609, of which
£789,577 was bonus-scrip and the bal-
ance cash, which also brought with it
£933,600 of share premiums. Last two
issues were at premiums of 100 p.c. in
August, 1951, and 37y p.c. in September,
1952. Paid capital now stands at
£8,534,842 in 175,000 9 p.c. prefs. and
8,359,842 ords. ; and at June 30 last
reserves totalled £8,030,643, subject to
£2,387,482 of intangibles—excess of cost
over net assets of subsidiaries at date of
purchase.
Last term turnover gathered momen-
tum, a lot of new plant came into pro-
duction, operating costs also benefited by
steadier wage-rates, and the 22 p.c. cut
in co. tax-rates in the 1953 Budget helped,
too. After deducting outside share-
holders’ interests and losses totalling
£97,317 in two subsidiaries and allowing
£1,080,506 (up £165,660) for deprecia-
tion and what looks like a generous
£1,313,809 (up £339,564) for taxation,
the cautious board wrote the group profit
£191,619 stronger at £1,183,525:
A. 0.1. and Subsidiaries.!
, Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
'5O 699,573 15,750 9 p.c. = 444,060 5,051,681
Exchange surplus, £417 .. .. 5,052,098
Share premiums, £146 .. .. 5,052,244
Profit sale assets, £4621 .. .. 5,056,865
Unexplained addition, £170,994 .. 5,227,859
*5l 754,078 15,750 9 p.c. = 603,877 5,362,810
Exchange surplus, £l3BO .. .. 6,363,690
Share premiums, £895,620 .. 6,269,310
Profit sale assets, £13,787 .. .. 6,273,097
Unexplained additions, £375,381 .. 6,648,478
’52 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,875
Share premiums, £282,439 .. 7,104,314
Profit sale assets, £ 5323 .. .. 7,109,637
Unexplained additions, £29,662 .. 7,138,299
’53 991,906 16,750 9 p.c. = 726,844 7,388,611
Share premiums, £5.12 .. .. 7,389,123
Profit sale assets, £14,803 .. 7,403,926
From tax reserves, etc., £294,926.. 7,698,852
’54 1,183,525 15,750 10 p.c. = 834,984 8,080,648
* Subject to intangibles, now £2,387,482.
f Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
After paying the pref. div. the balance
of the year’s profit was equal to 13.9
p.c, on average ord. capital as against
12.1, 11.4, 11, 11.8 and 11.2 p.c. back
to 1949. That disregards a profit of
£14,803 on sale of assets, as well as
additions to reserves totalling £294,926,
mainly from tax and other contingency
provisions. The lift in the div. from 9
p.c. to 10 p.c. can be taken as an expres-
sion of the board’s confidence in the
outlook.
The chairman’s plea for a 50 p.c. tax-
concession on any provision for plant-
replacement, etc., in excess of the out-
moded official allowance has much to
commend it on the grounds of sound
practice. The true economic cycle of a
business begins not with money but
with plant and goods, and until pro-
vision has been made for replacement
of the appropriate proportion of the
assets concerned no real profit has been
earned.
Continued growth and strengthening
of the financial structure are the features
of balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £7,780,308 £8,533,477 £8,534,842
Outside
interests* ~ 75,579 84,332 117,993
Reserves .. .. 6,821,875 7,388,611 8.030,643
Mortgages .. 311,344 298,890
Overdraft .. 1,569,171 1,319,464 865,548
Sundry
creditors .. 1,922,017 1,584,257 2,719,736
Tax provision., 1,681,682 1,768,371 1,905,878
Final divs. .. 342,239 384,605 459,791
Total .. £20,192,871 £21.374,461 £22,933,321
Freehold .. 2,890,132 8,115,811 3,197,901
Plant, etc. ~ 4,569,994 5,444,972 5.613,566
Shares, etc. .. 1,329,094 1,323,935 1,361,796
Stocks . . 5,920,843 6,511,887 6,757,184
Debtors . . 2,870,824 2,189,755 3,364,965
Bonds, cash. etc. 126,496 126,367 206,143
Inter-co.
balancef .. 88,678 265,937 44,284
Intangibles .. 2,396,810 2,396,307 2,387,482
Total .. £20,192,871 £21,374 t 461 £22,933,821
* Including proportion reserves, t Due to differences
in balance date.
Last term over £1,300,000 was spent on
freeholds, plant, etc., combined book-
value of which increased by £250,684.
To help meet this net addition, carry an
extra £1,175,210 of book-debts and
£245,797 more stocks, as well as clip
£453,916 off the overdraft, the amount
coming to sundry creditors was increased
by £1,135,479. The year’s improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£5,484,529, including shares, etc.) was
£405,199.
The f.-p. £1 ords. at 48s. 6d. return
only 4.2 pic. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. So
the investor who looks for 5.7 p.c. on
his money counts on a 14 p.c. distribu-
tion or other benefits. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 335. 7d. The well-
protected prefs. at 335. yield 5.4 p.c.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
a period of very rapid
and profitable expansion, by absorp-
tions and otherwise, appearances are that
for the next couple of years the manage-
ment will be preoccupied with problems
of consolidation, modernisation and more
normal growth of the undertaking, includ-
ing erection of a new seven-storied depart-
ment store at Perth, work on which is
scheduled to begin early in 1955.
Immediate investment interest therefore
centres in maintenance of the div. at last
term’s increased rate of 10 p.c,, with
prospects of shareholders being asked for
more later on.
The-board says it expects to maintain
the div. at 10 p.c. On increased capital.
In March, 1954, £375,000 of new ord.
capital was gathered at par. But it was
not enough. To ease the pressure of the
outside debt and provide more working
funds, those on the register at Sept. 24
were offered 3,000,000 new ss. ords.
(500,000 of them were reserved for appli-
cation by employees) at par, one for two,
payable in full on application at October
30. Paid capital will thus have advanced
from £650,932 in 1950 to £2,290,490, of
which £1,125,000 will have come in since
March last. The £2,290,490 is in 167,475
£1 A and 123,015 £1 B prefs., both 7 p.c.
cumulative, and 8,000,000 ords. of ss.
each. The pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. on that lot will call for only £14,931
more profit than was claimed last term.
At 7s. (7s. 1 Id. a year ago) the f.-p. ss.
ords. return 7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis.
Rights to the new issue recently sold at
Is. 9d., making total cost, including
brokerage, 6s. lOd. The A and B prefs.
at 235, and 225. 6d. yield 6.1 p.c, and
6.2 p.c. respectively. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is £lB 13s, 7d.
A and £23 4s. lOd. B prefs. and 6s. lid.
ords.
The organisation consists of a chain
of 43 retail stores —11 Victoria, 11
Westralia, eight N. S. Wales, six South
Australia, six Tasmania and one at Can-
berra —as well as a buying office in
London and two wholly-owned concerns.
The latter are Economic Stores (Perth),
bought about three years ago for
£353,500, and Sydney Snow Pty., Ltd., the
big 42-year-old softgoods retail estab-
lishment at the corner of Pitt- and Liver-
pool-street, Sydney, taken over as from
March 1, 1954, at a cost of approximately
£1,500,000. Snow’s store is an eight-
storied building with frontages of 110 ft.
to Liverpool-street and 151 ft. to Pitt-
street. Excepting 45ft. of the Pitt-street
frontage, the property is freehold. The
lot now stands in the books at £681,913.
Several small undertakings have also been
bought and welded into the organisation
over the last few years, while other free-
holds have been bought and some sold in
the process of consolidation and develop-
ment.
Much is expected of the Sydney Snow
business in the future —its net earnings
prior to purchase were not disclosed.
The increase in sales for the five months
to July 31 last was “really phenomenal,”
the chairman says. The amount paid in
divs. to Cox Bros, for this period Was
£25,501, equal to £61,202 p.a. That was
after charging against earnings “very
heavy expenditure” on redecoration and
structural alterations, etc.
Turnover for the whole group (amount
not stated) increased by 31 p.c. last term.
Excluding new stores the improvement
was about 13 p.c. After allowing £31,778
(up £8803) for depreciation and £86,694
(down £14,583) for taxation, net earnings
of the group more than doubled, reach-
ing £206,403;
Cox Bros.
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 7$ „ ~ 24,781 167,862
1949.. 55,519 11,724 8,610 7$ „ ~ 27,034 176,013
To contingencies reserve, £lO,OOO .. 186,013
1950.. 67,074 11,724 8,610 7} p.c.= 27,033 205.720
Revaluation assets, £378,720 .. 584,440
1951. .102,413 11.724 8,610 10 p.c.= 56,250 610,269
Profit sale assets, £54,158 ;
net addit’n property res., £21,719.. 631,988
1952.. 80,531 11,724 8,610 74 p.c.= 65,625 626,560
Profit sale freehold, £69,142- .. 695,702
Reduction revaluation res., £40,550 655,152
1953.. 101,446 11,724 8,610 74 p.c.= 65,625 670,639
Cox Bros, and Subsidiaries.
To revaluation reserve, £5351 .. 675,990
Underwriting exes., £14,584 .. 661,406
Reduction reserves, etc., £12,058 .. 649,348
1954.. 206,403 11,724 8,610 10 p.c.=100,000 735,417
•After deducting goodwill (£42,070), written out
of accounts in 1951.
Underwriting exes. (£14,584) and a loss
(£12,058) on account of flood damage at
Lismore (N.S.W.) have been charged
against reserves. The £206,403 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. divs. (£20,334)
and show 18.5 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 9.3, 6.9, 14.4 and 13 p.c. back
to 1950. The div., steady at 7\ p.c. for the
11 years to 1953, was lifted to 10 p.c. On
average shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
10.6 p.c. The improvement in and high
level of net earnings was due partly to the
large amount of outside money in the
business, which is earning a lot more than
its keep, as well as to increased turnover.
The year’s growth of £1,874,281 in total
assets was due mainly to purchase of
Sydney Snow Pty. and partly to expan-
sion of the rest of the business:
Cox Bros, and - Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,165,490 £1,165,490 £1,540,490
Reserves .. .. 626,560 670,639 735,417
Outside interest .. 96,782
Notes .... 250,000 350,000
Mortgages .. 940,500 864,844 1,329,469
Overdraft .. 456,482 437,059 979,063
Creditors .. 232,199 101,553 298,602
Tax provision .. 98,750 103,600 111,000
Final divs. .. 53,917 42,979 69,522
Total . . £3,578,898 £3,636,064 £5,510,345
Freeholds .. 1,336,034 1,272,554 1,984,871
Leaseholds .. 56,099 53,128 51,650
Plant .. .. 248,426 290,262 462,349
Stocks .. .. 1,183,009 1,048,680 1,480,744
Debtors .. .. 780,526 953,455 1.474,060
Cash, bonds ~ 19,804 17,985 56.671
Total .. £3,573,898 £3,636,064 £5,610,345
There were net additions of £712,317 to
freeholds, £172,087 to plant, £432,064 to
stocks and £520,605 to book-debts. To
help meet the outlay shareholders put
up £375,000, the note-issue was increased
by £lOO,OOO, mortgages by £464,625, the
overdraft by £542,004 and the amount
coming to sundry creditors by £197,049.
Excluding tax-provision and final divs.,
there was £2,957,134 of outside money in
the business when the books closed.
Berleij Ltd.
THE success of the Berlei organisa-
tion-—it supplies the Australian and
New Zealand markets with women’s
foundation-garments and operates a
factory in London as well —has been due
largely to the foresight, energy and
enterprise of Fred R. Burley, who
founded the business about 40 years ago,
and was chairman until bis death in
June, 1954. He is succeeded at the head
of the board-table by his brother, Arthur
Burley, who has been long associated
with management of the undertaking.
Growth of the business has become
pronounced over the last few years. And
the emphasis in policy has been upon
service, including quality, style and fit of
garments, which calls for both mana-
gerial and plant efficiency, all of which
mean much so far as costs, net earn-
ings and competitive power are con-
cerned. Over the last nine years £519,153,
which brought with it £122,343 of share-
premiums (mainly in connection with
businesses absorbed), has been added to
paid capital, which stands at £709,210 in
50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs, and 659,210 ords.
Those on the register, who put up
£180,864 at par a couple of years ago,
were rewarded with £188,346 of bonus-
scrip, two for five, in December, 1953.
That makes the 10 p.c. div., an annual
event since 1936, worth 14 p.c. on capi-
tal as it stood before the gift. There is
much to be said in favor of the board’s
decision to adjust capital nearer its true
worth rather than increase the dividend
percentage on the nominal value of the
shares, especially at a time when capital
is under increasing fire from the Left.
Sales (£2,074,757) increased by nearly
25 p.c. last term, thanks partly to the
benefit of new capital outlay, partly to
a vigorous advertising campaign and
partly to more stable economic condi-
tions. Combined sales of the group —
parent co., Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., Warner’s
“Le Gant” Pty. and Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd.
—exceed £4,000,000. Including £29,374
(up £11,962) received in dividends from
the offshoots, the growth in the parent’s
net earnings was £57,567:
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 59,784 4000 10 p.c. = 26,625 29,159 382,348
Surplus tax, £2328 384,676
To staff fund, £6667 .. .. .•
Share premiums, £12,500 .. .. 390,509
1951.. 58,859 4000 10 p.c. = 28,750 26,109 416,618
Surplus tax. £lBOO 418,418
To staff fund, £8450 .. .. •• W B ;®
1952.. 60,657 4000 10 p.c. = 37,544 19,113 429,081
To tax reserve, £lBlB ... .. ..427,268
To staff fund. £9913 ... .. . • 417.305
1953.. 82,627 4000 10 p.c. = 47,086 31,541 448,896
Assets revaluation, £11,316 .. "
Reserves capitalised, £188,346 .. . •
From tax reserve, £7956 net .. •• 279.8 -
To staff fund, £8948 .. 270.874
1954..140,194 4000 10 p.c. = 56,503 <9,691 350,565
The bonus share-issue and other non-
recurring items are interlined in the


"Reach for the Sky"
The German doctor was
astounded to see the British
fighter pilot had no legs. But
to Nazi airmen he was no stran-
ger: they knew him as one of
the R.A.F.’s top aces.
Read Douglas Bader’s story,
one of the most extraordinary
personal sagas of World War 11,
in October Reader’s Digest’s
24-page book condensation of
Paul B'rickhill’s best-seller,
“Reach for the Sky.”
Also in October issue, 30
stimulating articles condensed
from world’s leading magazines
and current best-selling books,
including “Why do YOU get so
tired?” and “British workers
show their muscle.” October
Reader’s Digest on sale now
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOJ) $
cisuixiYA*
> -v mua...,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUt”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered) Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks . —Advt.
PROGRESS
AND
PLANKING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in CP'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. ’Phone BWBO6I.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION-TO-MORROWS SECURITY
Faith in the
Future
Man today is moving more earth than ever before
in his history. Next year it will be more, and so on
into the future.
Dams are being built for the impounding of water.
Roads are being made and graded for the transport
of people and goods and services, and for the provision
of arteries in decentralisation.
There is a long line of enterprise and industrial
effort behind the man who drives the machine on road
and farm.
Whether he realises it or not, he is part of a cycle,
the force of which was brought out recently in the
annual report of a big American company engaged
in the manufacture of tractors and earth-moving
equipment.
This company had a turnover in sales of 434
million dollars in 1953. In Australian money, that is
£195 million.
It 'employed an average of 29,000 workers. The
average earnings of its hourly-paid employees—wage
employees, we would call them here —was 3920 dollars,
or £1760 Australian.
Big business, some people may say. Yes, but
business in which “small” people shared. And one of
its ejnd products is spelt in development for Australia.
“This company,” the annual report said, “is owned
directly by thousands of people. Hundreds of
thousands share indirectly in its fortunes.
“At the end of 1953 there were 19,597 shareholders
of the common stock, 16,500 of them individual men
and women in many walks of life who owned
approximately one-half of the common stock
outstanding.
“The remaining 3097 were trustees, estates,
insurance companies, pension funds, schools, churches
and other organisations.
“Behind these institutional organisations stand
many hundreds of thousands of policy-holders,
students in schools, pensioners and others.”
You see the force of it, the chain effect of human
action? Someone invests his savings, and thousands
of miles away the earth is turned as Man goes on
“cultivating his garden” and turning the inner key,
which is life-giving water.
That’s how the world moves—with one inter-
dependent on the other, and often wielding an
influence, the strength of which it is not given to him
to know.
table. The £140,194 of profit
claimed covered the pref. div.
and 20.6 p.c, on ord. capital as
it now stands, compared with
16.7, 15.1, 19.1, 20.9 and 15 p.c.
back to 1949. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 13.9
p.c.; it is thus plain that funds
raised by mortgage, overdraft
and the issue of notes are earn-
ing a lot more than their keep.
The feature of balance-sheet
figures was a growth of £504,225
in stocks —in at cost, market or
replacement-value, whichever is
the lower —due partly to
abnormal influences in overseas
markets for raw materials at last
two balancing-dates:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £519,369 £709,210
Reserves .. ~ 448,896 350,565
Notes .. .. 217,875
Mortgage .. .. 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. 8,820 285,371
Creditors, etc. .. 154,198 189,004
Tax provision .. 50,000 54,913
Final div 25,543 34,960
Total .. £1,306,826 £1,891,898
Freeholds .. 135,201 134,339
Plant .. .. 90,808 112,482
Investments* .. 140,875 167,815
Stocks . . .. 700,666 1,204,891
Book debts .. 235,499 269,545
Cash, etc. .. 3,777 2,826
Total .. £1,306,826 £1,891,898
* Shares in subsidiary and associated cos.
The stock position, together with
net additions of £34,046 to book-
debts, £26,940 to investments and
£21,674 to plant, suggests pre-
paration for bigger trading. To
help finance the year’s outlay the
co. went to its bankers for an
extra £276,551 and issued
£250,000 (£217,875 of which had
been received when the books
closed) of 5i p.c. unsecured
registered notes, redeemable
June 30, 1959, by allotment of
ord. shares at a premium of
6s, Bd. each, or in cash, at the
option of the holder.
At 425. 9d. the ords. return
4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 5.6
p.c. on his money counts on a
12 p.c. distribution, or other
benefits. The prefs. at 255. 6d.
yield 6.2 p.c. The f.-p. £lOO notes
recently sold at £ll5, Net
tangible cover is £2l 3s. lid.
prefs. and 30s. 7d. ords.
Walter Reid & Co. (Q.)
"COR the last couple of years
those on the register of this
expanding, prosperous and well-
entrenched Rockhampton co.
have been awaiting announce-
ment of a new share-issue. In
1951 it was intended to put out
250,000 new 16s. shares, one for
one, at a premium of 10s. each
to finance erection of a new
Brisbane warehouse —the old
was destroyed by fire in 1944 —
but Capital Issues Control re-
fused consent. Later it was de-
cided to postpone building opera-
tions. Later still there was
mention of “providing new and
additional sources of income,”
but the time was not then con-
sidered ripe to ask shareholders
for more. In its report accom-
panying the latest accounts the
board is silent on the question of
new capital. In the market,
however, sellers recently asked
755. for the f.-p. 16s. shares after
sales at 655. At the middle price
of 70s. the immediate return
would be 4.5 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div, basis, with prospects. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
61s. Id.
Paid capital advanced from
£93,750 early in this century to
£250,000 in 1918 with the aid of
only £11,250 of cash subscrip-
tions. In 1945 £50,000 of capital
(4s. a share) was returned, reduc-
ing the figure to £200,000 in f.-p.
16s. shares. And at May 30,
1954, £563,535 of reserves had
been accumulated. Also those
on the register have never failed
to receive a div. since the begin-
ning of this century, the average
being over 10 p.c. For the six
years to the close of last accounts
the average was 17£ p.c.
The parent co., which trades
throughout Queensland, has
strong connections with the man-
on-the-land, especially in the cen-
tral and central-west of the State.
Since 1948 the co. has widened
the spread of its activities by
purchase of retail establishments,
hotels and pastoral properties,
and the book-value of shares in
subsidiaries stepped up from
£49,995 to £505,893. The curtain
is kept drawn over the figures of
the offshoots, and their net earn-
ings are taken into account only
to extent of dividends received,
the amount of which is unstated.
Last term the parent’s gross
earnings (£342,195) increased by
£67,310. Exes. (£298,954) took
all but £593 of the gain:
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> & & £
’48..34,019 14ip.c.=29,000 5,019 867,882
Capital profit, £B3OB .. .. 376,190
To tax reserve, £B3OB .. 367,882
’49..34.031 15 p.c.=30,000 4,081 448,913
’50..32,521 15 „ „ 30,000 2,521 451,434
Unexp. addition, £77,000 .. 444.882
Added contingency res., £50,000 501,434
’51..43,062 20 p.c.=40,000 3,062 504,496
Added contingency res., £7821 511,777
’52..54,876 15 p.c.-30,000 24,876 536,653
Unexplained addition, £4158.. 540,812
’53..42,648 20 p.c.=40,000 2,648 543,460
Unexplained addition, £16,834. 560,294
’54..43,241 20 p.c.=40.000 3,241 563,535
“A substantial share” of the
year’s profit was derived from
sources other than trading, the
chairman says. This probably
has some connection with the un-
explained addition of £16,834 to
contingency reserves (£78,273).
The £43,241 of profit claimed
was 21.6 p.c. on capital as against
21.3, 27.4, 21.5 and 16.2 p.c.
back to 1950. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was only
5.6 p.c. The div. was kept at
20 p.c., and there is nothing in
sight at the moment to suggest
that it is likely to be interfered
with.
Balance-sheet movements are
encouraging:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £200,000
Reserves .. »«. 543,460 663,530
Sundry creditors.. 115,702 108,172
Due subsids. .. 141,450 150,914
Tax provision .. 123,944 180,508
Final div. .. 30,000 25,000
Total .. £1,154,556 £1,228,129
Freeholds and plant 52,422 56,980
Shares subsids. .. 505,893 506,893
Stocks .. .. 381,948 421,303
Book debts .. 192,382 212,747
Cash .. .. 19,631 28,926
Investments .. 2,280 2,280
Total .. £1,154,556 £1,228,129
Last term additions of £39,355
to stocks and £20,365 to book-
debts were accompanied by a
reduction of £7530 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The
growth of £56,564 in tax-pro-
vision could mean that the year’s
profit has been conservatively
stated. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£200,662) was £15,517.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L. (Tas.)
SINCE formation in 1926 the
co. (paid capital £62,500 in
Is, shares) • has handed out
£1,793,817 in divs., of which
£1,400,000 was in respect of the
four years to June 30 last.
The tin concentrates are sold
locally. The wolfram concen-
trates are taken by the U.K.
Government at world prices,
with a guaranteed floor-figure
(not disclosed) which has been
well above open-market level
for the last 18 months or more.
Locally the fixed price of tin
was £llOO per ton for the year to
April 17, 1953, when control
was discontinued. Average
price received for the year
to June 30, 1954, was £754, clos-
ing figure being £835. The Lon-
don open-market figure for wol-
fram fell from £SI9 Is. for
January, 1954, to £SB 4s. for
June, and strengthened to
£SI2 10s. for August.
The fall in the price of tin
and a drop in output of wolfram
concentrates were responsible
for the contraction of £142,940
in last term’s profit:
Year, June 30. 1952. 1953. 1954.
Ore milled, tons 36,784 44,847 52,875
Concentrates —
Tin, tons .. 463.68 580.60 630.17
Wolfram, tons 172.56 212.68 181.03
Flue dust, tons 220.39 235.81 266.26
Net profit, £ 537,621 477,366 334,426
Dividend, p.c. 725 625 450
” amount, £ 453,126 390,625 281,250
The £334,426 of profit, written
after allowing for development
(£49,944, up £13,967) and taxa-
tion (£108,854, down £47,872),
was 535 p.c. on capital as
against 763 p.c. and 860 p.c. for
the two preceding years. The
div. was lowered from 625 p.c.
to 450 p.c.
Ore reserves show little
change at 287,857 tons —243,409
tons positive and 44,448 tons
probable —thanks to develop-
ments on No. 9 level. The main
shaft was sunk a further 293 ft.
to 1378 ft., and lot more payable
stuff is expected to be opened
up on and below No. 9 level.
The immediate outlook has
brightened, but earnings appear
to be in for a jolt when the con-
tract with the U.K. runs out,
in November, 1955, unless some-
thing unexpected happens.
At June 30 last current assets,
including stores (£34,285),
totalled £469,119, and current
liabilities amounted to £380,888,
including tax and final div.
At 245. (265. a year ago) the
Is. shares return 18.7 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution.


Women's Letters
STDNCy
Nowhere can one see such a large
number of Sydney’s beautiful women
beautifully dressed as at the Black and
White Ball, and this year, seen against a
background of white blossoming trees lit
by coral-colored birds, they made a truly
delightful picture. The ball was held at
the Trocadero on the Tuesday of race-
week and was attended by the Governor,
Sir John Northcott, with his daughter
and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Russell
Nash, and by the Chief Justice, the Hon.
K. W. Street. Mrs. Nash looked en-
chanting in a bouffant white tulle dress
with a bodice and overskirt of filmy lace
caught with two pale-pink roses at the
waistline and worn with a small diamond
tiara and long white gloves.
The dramatic red coat worn by Mrs.
R. H. Allen, president of the ball, her
white jersey-silk dress, pearl-embroidered,
and her ruby drop-earrings were in har-
mony with the distinctive decorations of
the official table, where white pear-
blossom flanked a tall screen in Chinese-
red and gold, silver bowls of red roses
and white iris alternated with silver
candelabra and clusters of waratahs were
caught on the skirts of the white table-
cloths by loops of red silk cord.
The three judges for the most beautiful
dress were themselves a picture. Madame
Louis Roche in a slim gown of white
satin glittering all over in a leaf design ;
Mrs. Eric Pratten, wearing a handsome
dress of black paper-shantung, its fea-
tures a sweeping harem-skirt and two
enormous white roses at the shoulder ;
and Miss Sybil Connolly in a wide-
spreading dress of black organdie with
many tiers to the skirt and each tier
edged with white embroidery.
The prizes went to Mrs. Blaise Fischer,
whose dress was white organza coin-
spotted with black, and to Jill Campbell,
whose white satin dress was of classic
simplicity. Second in each section were
Mrs. Bob Mclnerney, in a dramatic dress
of white organdie with hundreds of tiny
frills on the crinoline skirt, and Barbara
Bennett, whose white organdie was sashed
with black-and-white coinspots. The ball
was attended by 1250 people, and pro-
ceeds go to the Royal Blind Society.
☆ ☆ ☆
A modern color-scheme makes the new
rooms of the English-Speaking Union in
Elizabeth-street very fresh-looking and
attractive. The ceiling is pale pink, the
walls and Venetians blue-grey, curtains
and carpet are mulberry and the chairs
canary-yellow. Mr. Donald Smith, the
American Consul-General, was guest-of-
honor with Mrs. Smith on Thursday last,
when the rooms were officially opened.
The president, Mr. Justice Herron, wel-
comed the guests, who turned up in such
numbers it looked as though another
room would have to be found before
long. A basket of flowers was presented
to Mrs. Vernon Cole, who, with her hus-
band, will represent the E.S.U. at the
world-conference dinner of the E.S.U. to
be held at the Waldorf Hotel in New
York on November 11, when the Queen
Mother is expected to be present.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Art from the Country” at Anthony
Hordern’s Gallery was opened by the
Governor, Sir John Northcott, during
the week, and his Excellency expressed
interest in the great variety of areas rep-
resented by the paintings and also by
the number of New Australians who had
contributed. He also paid a tribute to
Miss Dorothy Helmrich, who, through
the arts council, was responsible for
organising the exhibition. Many artists
from the nearer country places came to
the opening, including Mrs. Vi Finch
of Gosford and her daughter Beverley,
Mr. Noel Mebberson and Mr. and Mrs.
G. Musgrave of Wollongong. From
Delegate come Hilda Rix Nicholas (Mrs.
Edgar Wright of Knockalong, Tombong)
and her son Mr. Rix Wright, whose
striking bronze, “The Shearer,” was the
largest piece of sculptury in the exhibi-
tion. Mrs. Rix Wright was also present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ex-students and friends from many
parts of the State sent flowers to decorate
the Women’s College (Sydney University)
for the musicale held there on Saturday
in aid of the College Building Fund.
The scent of lilacs filled the ‘ entrance-
hall, and iris bloomed in the grassy quad-
rangle where tea was served, so that,
with the beautiful musical programme
provided by Mrs. Amy Moran, Miss
Carmel Kaine and Miss Joan Rawlings
and introduced by Mr. Peter Platt, the
afternoon proved a really delightful one
for the 200 people who attended it. Miss
Marcia Godfrey, with Miss Evelyn Til-
desley, welcomed the guests, who in-
cluded Dr. Margery Little, Miss Julie
Fitzhardinge, Mrs. P. Parkinson, Miss
Ethel Ranken, Mrs. T. Y. Nelson, Dr.
Isabel Garvice and Miss Gordon Robert-
son.
Jennifer Hinder, who is the daughter of
Mrs. F. H. M. Hinder of Edgecliff, will
marry Ronald Baldry, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Aldred Baldry of Wallendoon,
Wallendbeen, at St. Mark’s Church, Darl-
ing Point, on November 17. Her brides-
maids will be Virginia Parker and Marie
Sawyer, and the reception will be held at
the Royal Sydney Yacht Club. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
Among the interesting happenings of
the week, the Irish fashion-parades at
Mark Foy’s commanded attention. It is
curious to think of high-fashion coming
from Eire, a country with no tradition of
fine dressing or lavish living, but the fact
is that Miss Sybil Connolly, the Dublin
girl who designed these clothes, has in
the past two years won recognition from
international fashion authorities, and
found herself a place in I’haute couture.
The clothes she has shown in Sydney ex-
plain why she has been so successful, for
she has not sought to copy the brilliance
of the French designs, the slickness of the
American or the bright dash of the
Italian, but has introduced, a new Irish
style where simplicity is blended with
inventiveness.
The materials are a revelation, some of
the linen being so fine that it is almost
like chiffon, the colors are all as soft and
subtle as the Irish landscapes, but for the
flashing reds which repeat the color of
the petticoats and cloaks worn in some
country parts. Three Irish mannequins
came to Australia with Miss Connolly,
but they could have been English or Aus-
tralian so far as their looks went, and, to
judge by the span of their waists, they
haven’t seen a potato for a long time.
☆ ☆ ☆
Perfect moonlight through the trees
and the sparkle of liglits across the gully
lent enchantment to the young dancers
from the British Ballet, who danced on
the lawn of the home of Mrs. Clarice
Lorenz on Sunday night, when a recep-
tion was held to welcome Mr. Warwick
Braithwaite, the new conductor of
National Opera. Many members of Par-
liament attended the reception, among
them Mr. Dan Clyne (who said the
Government should build an opera-
house to celebrate the centenary of re-
sponsible government in 1956), Mr. W. M.
Gollan, Mr. Ken McCaw (who said the
aims of culture knew no party barrier),
Mr. J. McGrath, the Minister for
Housing, and Mr. F. Cahill. Mr. Roland
Foster spoke of the work of opera-com-
panies on the Continent, and Mr. W. J.
Bradley presided. Among the guests
were Mr. and Mrs. Roy McKerihan, Mr.
and Mrs. W. H. Pelly, Mr. and Mrs.
David Klippel (who were wished “bon
voyage” for their trip abroad), Madam
Dora Scott, Miss Kathleen Gorham and
Mr. Leon Kelloway.
☆ ☆ ☆
This important message has been re-
ceived in the post: “A Corrimission of
Inquiry is to be held into allegations that
artists enjoy themselves too much at the
Artists’ Ball. Anyone who wishes to give
evidence is instructed to be present at
nine of the clock in the evening of Friday,
November 5, at the Trocadero, Sydney.
The President, Mr, Justice Stan Cross, will
hear evidence. As the Commission can
accommodate only about 1800 witnesses,
you are hereby commanded to notify the
Commission Secretary, Trevor Wilson, by
telephonic communication, 8X2521,
forthwith. No witness will be admitted
without a subpoena, which is available
at a fee of 30 shillings. By order of the
Commission.”
MCLCCURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks are
happily looking forward to a visit next
month from their daughter, Mrs. Robin
Byrne, and her two-year-old son
Christopher. They will stay at Govern-
ment House.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the annual meeting of the Town
and Gown Guild, which works for the
University, Lady Lowe retired as presi-
dent after eight years of splendid ser-
vice. She will be succeeded by Lady
McConnan, who has been a member
of the committee for some years.
Last month Lady McConnan held three
bridge-parties at her home in Toorak,
and as a result the guild fund for next
year will have almost £3OO in hand.
Lady Lowe was presented with flowers
at the meeting, at which Constance
Duncan, organising-secretary of Inter-
national House, spoke.
& ☆ ☆
Ruth Morrow, who has announced her
engagement to W. Gordon Ross, elder
son of the late Mr. and Mrs. D. H. Ross
of South Yarra, is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. I. Morrow of Elstern-
wick. A former pupil of Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Ruth is secretary to
Douglas Cox and was also secretary to
the campaign committee which was suc-
cessful in obtaining'for Mr. Cox a seat
in the City Council. Gordon is a grazier
and has a property at Dunkeld in the
Western District. He is an old boy of
Scotch College, and the wedding will be
in the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel at
Scotch about the middle of next year.
Ruth’s engagement-ring was her fiance’s
mother’s, which has been reset into a
diamond solitaire. Photo by John
Warlow.
Sydney, of course, was thronged with
visitors from Melbourne for the spring
race-meetings. But among those who
did not go to Randwick, preferring to
take the sun with in-between dips in
harbor pools, were Mrs, Norman Spry,
Mrs. Jean Davies and Mrs. Gordon
Pope. They were the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. H. Pugliese at their lovely Vaucluse
home. For the latter part of her visit
Mrs. Spry was joined by her husband,
who flew into Sydney from a business trip
to the U.S.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, has been patron-
ess of the American Women’s Auxiliary
to the Children’s Hospital since she came
to live in this city. With her husband
she will return shortly to the U.S., and
a farewell luncheon-party was given her
by the executive of the auxiliary at the
Toorak home of the acting-president,
Mrs. A. Hvistendahl. At an afternoon-
tea on the same day members of the
auxiliary farewelled her at the E.S.U.
clubrooms. Mrs. Stebbins wore, with
her navy velvet cloche and navy suit, the
opal pendant-brooch presented to her by
the acting-president on behalf of the
auxiliary. Hostesses for the afternoon-tea
were Mesdames C. Mayhew, M. Saunders
and F. Rock.
When. Mrs. Stebbins leaves for home
she will take with her another Australian
memento: A panel of mounted lyrebird-
feathers which Mrs. Stebbins found in
Sherbrooke Forest. They were mounted
by Mrs. Mary Stuart of the Arts and
Crafts Society of Victoria, and then
framed. Lady Dixon, president of the
Arts and Crafts Society, presented the
panel together with an inscription on
vellum executed beautifully by Mr. J. S.
Forman.
☆ ☆ ht
There will be only a short engagement
for Barbara de Crespigny, only daughter
of Mr. W. Tunbridge of St. Kilda and
Mrs. L. B. Tunbridge of St. Kilda-road.
She will marry William Richard, younger
son of Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Grice of Cam-
berwell, at St. John’s, Toorak, on October
21. Barbara, who is a journalist, will
live in Western Australia, where her
future husband has a property.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. H. F. Maudsley, retiring senior
vice-president of the Victoria League in
Victoria, was entertained by members at
an afternoon-party at the league head-
quarters. Lilac, spring foliage, iris and
red roses decorated the rooms. The
new senior vice-president, Mrs. lan
Connell, welcomed the guest-of-honor,
who was presented with a spray of gar-
denias. Mrs. Connell wore a tobacco-
brown silk-shantung suit, which was
printed in black, and a red hat and acces-
sories. Receiving with Mrs. Connell were
vice-presidents Mrs. R. Hamilton and
Mrs, Bowen Allen.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two country families were joined when
when Marjorie Thomas, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lauchlin
Mackinnon of Matakana, Kyabram, and
David McLorinan, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Allan Stevenson of Strathfield,
Tocumwal (N.S.W.), were married. The
Rev. Alec Fraser officiated at the cere-
mony which was held at the Littlejohn
Memorial Chapel, Scotch College.
The bride chose a gown with a bouffant
skirt of white silk-organza and bodice of
guipure lace. Her head-hugging cap of
matching lace and organza was held by
a fingertip veil of tulle, and she carried
a bouquet of orchids and lily-of-the-
valley. Her sister Peggy was bridesmaid ;
she wore a short frock of green silk-
organza embroidered in white, and a
coal-scuttle white organza hat. Her
bouquet was of orchids. Dr. John Gal-
braith was best man. Reception was held
at the Hotel Windsor.
☆ ☆ *
A petrol-bowser in the foyer. Golden
Fleece emblems, and balloons of blue
and gold were decorations used for the
annual ball of H. C. Sleigh, Ltd., held at
the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, proceeds
of which go to the Royal Melbourne
Hospital, President of the ball-committee,
Mr. C. J. Hough, and Mrs. Hough (who
wore a gown of white organza patterned
in a wide check of strawberry-pink),
assisted by Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Jellis,
received the official guests. Mrs. Hamilton
M. Sleigh wore a lovely gown of white
organza patterned in large pansies, with
the full skirt caught up in front with a
large purple taffeta bow; Mrs. C. R.
Strangward chose a gown of white and
silver brocade ; Mrs. Heathcote Wright’s
slim gown was of black chiffon. Mrs.
E. A. Joseph’s gown combined royal-blue
chiffon and white guipure lace. Mrs,
K. R. Kent’s frock was of pale-mauve-
and-silver brocade. Mrs,
Bolton wore ice-blue crepes,
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Gullett entertained a group of
well-known women who are once again
organising the Derby Eve Ball, to be held
at Earl’s Court, St. Kilda, on October
29. Proceeds from the ball will aid the
funds of the Victorian Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children, of
which society Lady Gullett is president.
Committee-president is Mrs. Ken Guest,
and the two vice-presidents are
Geoffrey Grimwade and Mrs. Chester
Guest Ticket-secretaries are Mrs. Nor-
man Wettenhall, Mrs. Paul Grage and
Mrs. Julian Barrett. The “Derby Eve
News” (published for one night oniyj
will be a feature of the night’s amuse-
ment ; it will present tips for the ne_
day’s race-meeting at Flemington, s
news, and, of course advcr^mMt.
Editress-in-chief is Mrs. lan MiHe »
is also a vice-president of the ' .
mittee. Members of the large corntmdee
include Mrs. T. O. M. Lady
Steele, Mrs. Clive Leonard, Mrs. a H U
Mrs. W- Seymour and Mrs. Tom F g Y-


LIFEGUARD CIGARETTES
Obtain your supplies of good-
quality cigarettes—Cork or Plain
—priced at 80/- per 1,000.
Lifeguard Tobacco, Ltd.,
Box 31, P. 0., Chippendale, N.S.W.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
This?
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PAULINE PATRICIA McCLUNG late
of 44 William Street St. Hilda in tie
State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
BRUCE McCLUNG has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3112 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the
27th day of January 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WOODGATE & CLEAVES, Soli-
citors, of 97 Vincent Street, Cessnock, or
their Sydney Agents, MESSRS. PIGOTT
STINSON & CO., Solicitors, 2b Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROBINSON CROSTHWAITE
late of No. 13 Croydon Street Lakemba.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELIA AGNES
CROSTHWAITE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4339 of 1953 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 21st January 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from DONALD E. GLASSON, Soli-
citor, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney, the City
Agent for MESSRS. W. S. KAY, DAVIES
& CHAMPION, Solicitors, 16 Geofge
Street, Parramatta. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST JOHN PENNINGTON late
of Merrylands.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY PENNINGTON has filed Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2548 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of January 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition free of charge from
JOHN D. NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George
Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
SHU the Bieetesl
■“£"s
MOBILE POWE X#^
M:
gimbai ring
and saddle
Protected b» P”' 6 "' "id 10
HUfiWS
m S nddle ensures
\ rssr. -
cuts at ft"' ■. or uneven grouna.
regardless ® ® ne ver cross!
Features include:
O\M
VM*
/
Contact your local Agent or
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young St., Sydney. P.O. Box 509. Phone; BU *095
Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne
Branches at: Newcastle, Lfsmore. Wagga and Hay
H 513.93
• B.S.A. 10 b.h.p. motor
• Revolutionary chassis-
elevating device • Handy
' self-drive (optional, extra).
Morgans defies copy see
it FIRST l
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Victorian Symphony
Orchestra
Winding an imaginary
barrel-organ with one hand and
hurling thunderbolts at his forces
with the other, Walter Susskind
piloted the visiting Victorian
Symphony Orchestra through an
excellent reading of Dvorak’s
“Carneval” Overture at Sydney
Town Hall —uninhibited, exciting
revelry in the opening and clos-
ing sections and a nimble and
accurate tossing of the melody
from one instrument to another
in the slow middle section.
Mozart’s Sinfonia Concer-
tante in E Flat Major for Oboe,
Clarinet, Horn, Bassoon and
Orchestra brought four excellent
soloists together: Jiri Tanci-
budek (whose oboe Sydney grate-
fully remembers), Thomas White,
Roy White and Thomas Wight-
man. This work calls for play-
ing of the utmost refinement and
delicacy ; it is replete with oppor-
tunities for each soloist to
demonstrate his skill; and it is
written with endless invention
for the solo instruments to be
heard in a variety of combina-
tions. The soloists took full
advantage of the opportunity;
and no finer concerted playing
of wind-instruments has been
heard in Sydney.
“Le Tombeau de Couperin,”
Ravel’s homage to his great
composer - compatriot, gave
strongest evidence of the high
musicianship and the subtlety of
Susskind’s conducting. It was
playing balanced to a hair’s-
breadth.
The big work of the night was
Shostakovich’s First Symphony,
which blends dynamism with
pastoral placidity, plaintive
woodwind airs with the stir-
ring march, and which contains
solos for first violin (played
admirably by Bertha Jorgensen),
and even co-opts the services of
the piano. The orchestra
worked with precision, good dis-
cipline and, in the tutti passages,
no little ebullience.
❖ * ♦♦♦
1200 and All That
Now that the broadcasters
have worn classical, romantic
and even contemporary music
threadbare, what a pleasure it is
to go for something new to
a.d. 1200, to the Gradual for St.
Stephen’s Day set by Maitre
Perotin of Notre Dame, Paris—
“Siderunt Priticipes” /
It opens like the illuminated
initial of an old manuscript.
with the whole choir singing the
first word and carrying it on in
open vowels in a huge polyphonic
progression for what seems like
10 minutes. Next three men sing
the plainsong in Latin: “Princes
sat and spoke against me and
the unrighteous have persecuted
me.” Then the whole choir of
Sydney University’s Pro Musica
Society with the society’s instru-
mental ensemble go to work on:
“Help me. Lord God, for Thy
Mercy’s Sake!” —though in this
performance the plainsong was
taken by the orchestra, and so
far as one could discern the
choir merely umm’d and ah’d its
weaving parts.
Those who went expecting
something unusual certainly got
more than they bargained for;
instead of a solemn monastic
chant they were treated to a rich
tangle of good-humored poly-
phony; surely nowhere else can
a saintly plea for divine aid have
been set and rendered with such
robust jollity. It was as though
all feudalism were resuscitated
in this one piece of music, all its
social ranks united in the kinds
of performers: violins, trom-
bones, a lute, recorders, a primi-
tive “positive” organ, bells,
’cellos; a part for everyone and
everyone rejoicing, the control of
all these in one work being a
measure of the old master’s art.
And of the art and energy of
their young conductor, Peter
Platt, who also dug up some
seven motets and troubadour-
songs for the choir, and some
13th-century French dances and
14th-century Italian dances for
groupings of lute, tabor, viola
and recorder. The songs would
seem to prove that the fame of
the troubadours should rest on
their words; but it was a
privilege to hear them, and
maybe to hear them again would
change this opinion.
Mr. Platt jumped seven
centuries for his other Australian
first - performance, the 1950
concerto - grosso by Vaughan
Williams, written for the English
Rural Schools’ Association, for
a combination of three string-
orchestras, one highly proficient,
another less, and a third playing
on little more than open strings.
This rather simplified Dr.
Williams’s work, while at the
same time there was plenty of
grotesque movement in the
burlesca and of feeling in the
saraband. The more one hears
of the old English composers, the
more one understands Vaughan
Williams such works, for
instance, as Tallis’s “Lamenta-
tions of Jeremiah,” which John
Gordon conducted with the
delicacy that makes him a kind
of Ysaye among choirmasters.
Bach’s No. 2 Brandenburg
concerto was too much for the
soloists; Trevor Jones got
slightly better results from
Handel’s G Minor concerto-
grosso, especially in the musette
—still, it was hardly Bach’s and
Handel’s party.
❖ ♦>
Choral Concert
There was a freshness about
the programme presented in
Brisbane’s Albert Hall by the
University Musical Society that
made it a welcome change from
the overfamiliar sonorities of
the 19th-century romantic music
which makes up the bulk of our
orchestral programmes. If
changes in musical instruments
have put most early instrumental
music out of reach, there is still
a vast amount of vocal music in
which choral groups can delve
around for interesting material.
This university concert picked
the musical eyes out of five cen-
turies of choral music, and the
singing had that spontaneity
which sometimes makes enthusi-
astic amateurs score over pro-
fessionals.
The full choir was at its best
in some early church music of
Tye, Vittoria and Mozart, and
in the Credo from Vaughan
Williams’s Mass in G Minor.
Here conductor Hugh Brandon
overcame the “deadness” of the
hall in realising to the full the
Tudor starkness and power of
the music.
In the midst of so much
strictly unsentimental music the
“Liebeslieder Waltzes” by
Brahms were not so successful.
The body of singers seemed too
large to keep the outlines of
these warmly romantic tunes
clear, and the music had little
lilt in it.
A Madrigal group under Gor-
don Spearrit presented an attrac-
tive group of Elizabethan
Madrigals of which Byrd’s
“Though Amaryllis Dance” out-
charmed the others. Shakspeare’s
contemporaries must have been
highly accomplished musicians
if they sight-read these difficult
unaccompanied pieces after
supper. The singers from
Queensland University were ob-
viously well rehearsed and sang
with an enjoyment that made
clear the popularity of this
music with the home music-
makers of the 16th century.
D.J.M.
Talkies
Martin Luther
It is hard to recall any bio-
graphical historical film that
betters this German-made work
on the life of the great reformer
The subject has been treated
with dignity and sensitivity and
on a plane of high scholarship;
there isn’t a dry minute in it. It
is superbly acted by British, Ger-
man and French actors, and
beautifully spoken in English.
The philippics are forceful, but
never thunderous.
In the title-role, Niall Mac-
Ginnis, burly, richly voiced,
captures completely the burning
zeal which motivated Luther’s
break with Rome; he has pug-
nacity, but not so much as might
have portrayed him as a fanati-
cal rabble-rouser.
A film to be seen for the
excellence of its presentation. At
Sydney Esquire.
* ❖
Current Sydney Releases:—
“The Net” (Lyceum): Ten-
sion is maintained fairly well
throughout this English thriller,
which concerns the attempt of
an Irish doctor, one of the staff
of a top-secret project, to spirit
the prototype of a 2000-m.p,h.
British seaplane and its pilot-
inventor behind the Iron Cur-
tain. James Donald is the
inventor.
“Valley of the Kings”
(Liberty): The plot of this story
of an Egyptologist’s search for
a tomb that will establish the
truth of the Biblical story of
Joseph and Pharaoh has many
weaknesses, but the film is
worth seeing for the splendor
of the scenes in color of the
ruins of ancient Egypt. Robert
Taylor and Eleanor Parker
handle the romance nicely, and
that able actor Kurt Kaznar
makes an all-too-brief appear-
ance as the villain-behind-the-
scenes.
“Seven Brides for Seven
Brothers” (St. James): A rol-
licking catchy-tuned musical set
in the backwoods of Oregon a
century ago. A feature is the
excellence of the acrobatic danc-
ing sequnces. Other credits are
the spontaneity of the comedy,
the singing of Howard Keel and
the outdoor winter scenery.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O.
SCHLUNKE
IN the meantime Viki was
using the time before her
train left in a kind of debased
diplomacy. She shared in
that belief held by many town-
and city-dwellers that one can
“get in good” with some person
likely to be in a position to do
one a favor by the display of
the most superficial marks of
attention; such as making a
point of buying him drinks ; or
even just greeting him regularly
and exchanging a few words with
him ; at the most, buying him a
dinner with a few noticeable
“extras.”
Viki’s mark was Breyley, but
all she proposed to spend on him
was a couple of lavish smiles,
even though she was now going
to suggest to him that in case of
his really doing an audit of the
family-company’s books, he
should hush-up her little share-
transactions.
So when Rhoda arrived at
Breyley’s office, still dreadfully
conscience-stricken about what
she’d done, she found the place
bubbling from the wake of
Viki’s passing-in. Faces were
still wearing responsive grins,
male chests were still swelling,
heads were sticking out of doors
trying to catch something of
what was going on between
Breyley and the surprising
glamor-puss who had come to
see him. As Rhoda reached his
door he was coming out with
Viki, declaring that even if it
shook the foundations of the
Institute of Accountancy, he
would take the time off to see
her on to her train. And Viki
was full of excited, fluttering
refusal.
“Oh, no, Gregory, you’re so
busy. You’ve got such import-
ant work to do.”
Then, seeing Rhoda suddenly,
but taking her appearance in her
stride, “There, you’ve got to talk
to Rhoda, on some very serious
matter, by the look of her.”
Playfully tickling Rhoda
under the chin in a way that
made a mockery of her dejec-
tion, Viki continued ;
“Oh, la, la, la! Smile, little
sister, smile. Smile for the nice
man to make him like you.”
Then a skittery passage down
the aisle past all the office-doors,
conscious of all the heads pop-
ping out and the eyes resting on
the taut shiny material covering
her rear. A short flash of an
actressy eye taking in everything,
and she was gone.
Breyley turned to Rhoda with
the liveliest interest.
“Did you bring the books,
Rhoda?” he said eagerly.
“Yes, I did,” Rhoda said
apprehensively, “but I don’t
know what will happen to me
when Father finds out.”
“He won’t hurt you,” Brey-
ley assured her. “This is going
to be mighty interesting. I’ll let
you know as soon as I find out
anything worth while.”
“You might show a bit of
sympathy and appreciation for
what I’ve done,” Rhoda re-
proached him.
“Oh, yes,” said get-
ting the idea. “You were mighty
brave; but he won’t find out.
I’ll bet you he won’t find out.”
He patted her on the arm
encouragingly.
“How’s that? All right?
Good. Well, I’ll clean up my
work here in a short time, then
I’ll shoot round to look at those
books. I can’t wait to get at
them.”
CHAPTER IX
CJINCE Rhoda had taken some
care to disguise the removal
of her father’s account-books,
and since he didn’t work on
them if he could possibly think
of some other enterprise more
suitable to his active nature,
often leaving them for a month
or more, Kraftmann did not
notice their absence in the few
days that Breyley needed to
make his first quick check.
The next news Rhoda had of
it was Breyley’s knocking at the
Kraftmann back door at eight
o’clock at night. It did not
occur to him that in a house as
large as the Kraftmanns’ there
wouldn’t be a room somewhere
where he could have a long con-
fidential talk to her without any-
one else knowing a thing about
it.
But the dogs told everybody
that a car was coming ; that the
person who got out of it was
a comparative stranger to them,
and that they most decidedly
didn’t like him.
“You shouldn’t have come
here,” Rhoda said, with a mix-
ture of eager curiosity, admira-
tion and apprehension. When
she had smuggled him into one
of the rarely-used front rooms
she turned to him eagerly.
“What did you find out? Can
you show him how to save a lot
of money? Has he done any-
thing wrong?”
Breyley spoke knowingly:
“Even if your father finds out
that I’m here he won’t toss me
out again. No, sir. That sort of
thing doesn’t happen twice to*
me.”
He was in a state of great
exaltation.
“I’ve found out what he’s been
doing,” he said, acting the
master-mind to impress Rhoda.
“He’s been making entries in his
books to the effect that he’s been
paying you dividends of ten and
even fifteen per cent, each year.
And he’s been drawing cheques
to pay the dividends, too. Yet
you say you’ve never had any-
thing like that actually paid to
you?”
Rhoda felt the consternation
and fear of that ultimate wife of
Bluebeard who had opened the
cupboard-door with little more
than idle curiosity and had found
all her predecessors hanging
within.
“No,” she said, not sure
whether it was Breyley or her
father who was the Bluebeard.
“He never paid us anything but
two or three per cent., and that
was always in notes at our
annual meeting.”
“I see,” said Breyley, digesting
the clue and producing his de-
duction with the speed of a con-
jurer. “He wrote the cheques
for the big dividends, cashed
them and paid out the small
dividends to you. Now, what
did he do with the rest of the
money?”
“I don’t know,” said Rhoda,
quite wretched now. “He might
have done something good with
it. He might even have put it
away in a safe place for us.”
Breyley inspected Rhoda
through both focusings of his
polished, geometrical spectacles.
Why was she being so unex-
pectedly difficult? He chuckled
in his most worldly - wise
manner.
“People who fake their book-
entries don’t go in for such
fancy charities. He’s either
socked it away somewhere for
himself, or spent it on something
he doesn’t want anyone to know
about. I’d say he’d spent it.”
He tried to estimate how
much use Rhoda would be in
solving a problem which in-
volved her father so deeply,
when she was so unwilling that
he should be incriminated.
“Do you think he has a girl-
friend planted away some-
where?”
Rhoda gave a little scream of
horror.
“In Sydney, say. Lots of
graziers have a girl in Sydney.
How often does he go down?”
“Only about twice a year,”
“It hardly looks like a girl in
Sydney, Is there any other place
he visits more frequently?”
But at that moment there was
a gentle knock at the door. It
opened slowly and Mrs. Kraft-
mann came in.
“I thought it was your voice
I could hear, Mr. Breyley. How
are you tonight?”
She shook his hand with warm
hospitality, then sat in a chair
beside him.
“Lovely weather we’re having
for this time of the year, isn’t
it?”
“Yes,” said Breyley without
any enthusiasm.
Mrs. Kraftmann stayed for
some time talking about this and
that, but at last she rose to go.
“I’m sure you two have lots
of important things to discuss,”
she said with romantic archness.
“Do you want the door closed,
or shall I leave it open?”
She left it open,
“The thing we have to decide”
—Breyley took up the thread im-
mediately—“is what action we’re
going to take. One step which
immediately suggests -itself is
that the shareholders put pres-
sure on him to disgorge the bal-
ance of the book-dividends he
owes them. That would be a
nice tidy sum in your pocket, my
girl; up to a thousand for each
year, for goodness knows how
many years. There’s only five
years’ entries in the books you
gave me, but you never know
how many years it’s been going
on.”
“Five thousand . . .” Rhoda
was dazzled. “But he mightn’t
be able to pay out that much if
the shareholders all want it at
once.”
“He’d certainly be in trouble,
I imagine,” Breyley said, with
a satisfaction that annoyed her.
“Unless I was right when I
said he’d put the money away
for us somewhere,” she said,
more obstinately this time.
“Forget that nonsense,” Brey-
ley told her, “and listen to this.
There’s another angle. We pre-
sume that he’s kept the money.
It might be difficult to prove
that he’s stolen it, in a court of
law, since the shareholders
agreed to the small dividends and
got them. He might claim it as
his salary as manager or some-
thing like that; but one thing
I’m sure of —he didn’t pay in-
come tax on it, and, boy, how
that tax will pile up on him if
that’s what he’s done! So you
can get your hooks into him
whichever way he turns. If he
tries to get out of paying the
dividends, then just see how he
likes the idea of an investiga-
tion by the taxation people! ”
He sat there, tremendously
smug. They heard footsteps
coming along the hall towards
their door, heavier steps than
Mrs. Kraftmann’s, which Rhoda
recognised as Alec’s.
“Hulloo, it’s Breyley,” Alec
said, coming in to dispense his
share of the family’s hospitality.
He looked at Breyley’s keen,
business - executive face, the
fountain-pen in his hand, the
piece of paper he’d been figuring
on, and he added wryly “Brey-
ley, the great lover.”
But the little jibe slid off
Breyley unnoticed. “You’d
better come in,” he said, “you’re
interested in this. Do you know
what you’ve been done out
of? Perhaps eight thousand
pounds! ”
“Eight thousand,” Alec said
with the utmost calmness, think-
ing it was only some absurdity
on Breyley’s part. “That’s what
I owe Stefanik for his pictures.
If I had it I could pay him—
and I’d still be no better off.”
Breyley made an impatient
gesture.
“Eight-thousand for pictures,”
he said in a disgusted voice. “I’ll
tell you what: when we’ve gone
through with the business of the
dividends, you give me fifteen
hundred to settle with that art-
dealer bloke for you; and I’ll
be quite satisfied with what I
can save out of it for my fee.”
Alec was interested but scep-
tical.
“That sounds all right,” he
said, “but it gives me a feeling
that you’d be cheating both of
us. Anyhow, I can’t spend even
that much money until I get it.
Tell me, what’s this idea of
yours? How do you know that
I’ve been done out of any
money?”
“I’ve been through the com-
pany’s books,” Breyley said.
Alec flushed with annoy-
ance ; then he frowned at
Rhoda.
“So you brought his books in
here, did you? You took a
ruddy big risk; he might have
come in at any moment. But
Breyley wouldn’t get a clear pic-
ture of things in that short
time.”
Breyley was prepared to ad-
mit, smilingly, that even he
couldn’t work that fast.
“I’ve had a few days to give
them a thorough do-over. Rhoda
brought them into town last
Friday.”
Alec turned so startled a face
on Rhoda that she went pale
with apprehension.
“Don’t you value your hte at
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments: —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. — Town accountant;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis,
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. — Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
{“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes,
Johnny. — Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property {and the family with
it) is concerned,
Rhoda has invited Breyley to
dinner; and Breyley tells Kraft-
mann, who is under the impres-
sion that he wants permission to
marry Rhoda, that he has every
right to examine the books, of
Kraftmann’s family company on
Rhoda’s behalf, Kraftmann
furiously orders Breyley out of
the house. An effort to get the
Lutheran pastor to preach a ser-
mon that would “bring Rhoda
to her senses” having failed,
Rhoda, with many pangs of
conscience, takes her father’s
account-books to town and
leaves them at Breyley’s lodgings.


all?” he asked her. “Rush them
back to his office quickly while
he’s still talking with Mother in
her room.”
Rhoda shot a look of agonised
entreaty at Breyley, but he
shook his head.
“I didn’t bring them back; I
want to check them thoroughly.
Besides, we have a big advantage
over him while we have posses-
sion of them.”
Alex turned angrily on Brey-
ley. “You big mug, do you
think it would be an advantage
to have Rhoda murdered?”
Rhoda watched Breyley with
increasing anxiety, but he was
full of easy confidence. “I’ll get
them back in good time. The
thing we really have to do now
is to make our plans. This is the
position.”
So Breyley told Alec how his
father had been robbing him of
his dividends.
“He’s been tucking away four
or five thousand a year for him-
self, though I don’t know yet
what he’s been doing with it.”
Breyley turned toward Rhoda
with a colossally amused expres-
sion. “Rhoda thinks he’s been
putting it aside for you in a safe
place.” He burst out laughing at
the absurdity.
“It’s not so ridiculous,” Alec
said, “even though I’m not say-
ing that’s what’s happened, I
can quite understand him think-
ing ‘lt’s no use giving them all
that money, they’d only spend
it.’ ”
Breyley laughed again. He
then went gravely into plans of
procedure.
“You’d better get all the
shareholders together for a con-
ference. I’ll get all the infor-
mation together and I’ll show
you the alternatives that are
available and the merits of
eac h.” He sat back with the
patronising munificence of one
whose capacity to confer favors
in the form of invaluable techni-
cal advice is almost unlimited.
“You’d better let Viki know
about it as soon as possible,” he
added ; and his eyes brightened;
"She won’t have any Santa Claus
notions about what’s happened
to her money. And she won’t
exactly cry when she hears she’s
got a chance of collecting, say,
eight thousand. She’s a girl that
knows which way she’s going.”
Then he noticed Rhoda’s un-
appreciative expression. He put
an arm around her for the first
time that evening, and said in
a manner surprisingly playful
for one so professionally
serious:
“Not thdt she can be com-
pared with this little girl. She’s
got everything!”
Alec gave the happy couple
a timely warning.
“I believe I hear our father
coming.”
Rhoda clutched Breyley in an
access of fear. “Don’t tell him
I gave you the books or say
anything that could make him
suspect. He might half-kill me.”
She quickly sat herself at some
distance from him.
Coming from his wife’s strong
pleas to treat Breyley kindly for
his daughter’s sake, Kraftmann
entered the room feeling only a
mild anger towards the account-
ant. But Rhoda’s guilty bearing
and Breyley’s defensive attitude
brought him back to the state
he’d been in when he had last
seen his prospective son-in-law.
Instead of greeting him pleas-
antly as his wife had suggested
he said “When I told you to
leave the house last time you
were here didn’t you have the
sense to know that that was
meant to be permanent?”
“I only came to see Rhoda,”
Breyley said, “because I had
something vitally important to
tell her.”
The patriarch found it infuri-
ating.
“I’ll take a gun to you if I
see you on this place again,” he
said. “Now, get out as quick
as you can.”
But Breyley’s poise was undis-
turbed. He held up a restrain-
ing hand in a dignified and
authoritative manner.
“Mr. Kraftmann,” he said,
“you are not in a position to
make reckless threats to me. I
have been supplied with compre-
hensive information about the
manner in which you have
handled the affairs of your com-
pany ; and I have come to the
conclusion that you have prac-
tised irregularities which will
need a great deal of explana-
tion.”
If he expected Kraftmann to
reel back in defeat he was disap-
pointed.
"You did it,” Kraftmann
accused Rhoda violently; “you
went sneaking to my books and
telling him all you found there! ”
An incredible relief that her
father had not guessed the whole
truth came over Rhoda. She
replied with spirit.
“I had a right to tell Gregory,
because he is my accountant;
he is watching my interests.”
“Right be damned,” Kraft-
mann shouted at her. “You let
a dirty outsider poke his nose
into our private family affairs.”
Breyley intervened; trying to
assert himself in his official
capacity; trying to make Kraft-
mann recognise it.
“Rhoda doesn’t need to ex-
plain her actions,” he said judi-
ciously ; “it’s you that we’d like
to hear from. We’d particularly
like to know what you did with
the balance of the shareholders’
dividends. Can you explain
that?”
Kraftmann turned fiercely on
Breyley; a dignified and honor-
able man who has been treated
with intolerable impertinence.
“Explain!” he shouted. “I’ll
explain when and where I like
and to whom I like ; and that
does not include you.”
“I’m representing Rhoda,”
Breyley persisted with more
than his usual professional
smugness.
“You’re representing the
Devil,” Kraftmann roared, more
vehement still. Then, seeing his
wife come into the room, pale
and agitated, he seized the
opportunity to shout at her.
“The Devil’s got into Rhoda
again ; she’s been spying into my
account-books and telling all our
family secrets to this sneak
Breyley.”
“Oh, Rhoda!” Mrs. Kraft-
mann’s voice was full of sud-
den, surprising anger. “How
could you do such a dreadful
thing? After being taken to
church, too! We’ll have to get
the pastor, after all, to pray the
Devil out of you.”
Breyley stared at them
through his gleaming modern
glasses as if he couldn’t believe
what he’d been hearing.
“But, Mrs. Kraftmann,” he
said reasonably, “it’s not Rhoda
who’s done wrong; it’s her
father.”
Mrs. Kraftmann turned on
him, astonishingly intense for
such a dear old lady. She used
an unfamiliar, precise diction.
“In family matters I can de-
cide for myself who is right and
who is wrong, thank you.”
Then Kraftmann, deciding
that his kind and charming wife
had been insulted in her own
home, realised that chivalry and
his own wishes could be met
with the one gesture. He went
as close to Breyley as he could
endure,
“We don’t need you here,” he
said, a superficial calm and self-
possession covering his anger.
“The sooner you go the better.
And, remember, don’t ever show
yourself here again!”
Breyley tilted up his chin and
tried to outface Kraftmann; he
looked as if he would have liked
to fold his arms in confident
authority, but was prevented by
the rather acute need to be
unhampered in any of his
actions.
“You can’t treat me like this,”
he said, a note of complaint
creeping into his assertions.
“You are in a very awkward
position, and it is in my power
to make things extremely diffi-
cult for you.”
Kraftmann was debased by
the threat into a primitive rage.
First he lifted clenched fists, then
he looked around as if his family
should have their share in the
slaughter. His eyes stopped on
Alec.
“Fetch me a gun! ” he
shouted. “To shoot this scum.”
Breyley gave a violent start;
he fastened his gaze on Alec, to
see if it was only a bluff. Alec
made a movement as if to go,
then he turned on Breyley.
“You’d better go,” he said, as
one young man of tolerable
sense to another, “without any
more arguing.”
Breyley seemed about to dis-
agree, but Rhoda urged him:
“You’d better go,” she
in an abrupt, sensible tone, her
head hung, avoiding his eyes.
Kraftmann, whose arm had
been held by his wife since he
mentioned the gun, jerked him-
self free and roared “Get
going!”
Breyley left without further
discussion.
CHAPTER X
AS soon as Breyley left, Mrs.
Kraftmann recaptured her
husband’s arm.
“Now your father will explain
everything to you,” she said to
the others as confidently as if she
knew all about his secret trans-
actions. Beseeching, demand-
ing, she shook his arm a trifle
and added in a sort of aside: “In
justice you owe it to them.”
Kraftmann shook himself
free.
“All right, all right,” he said,
as impatiently as if she were
asking for something he’d been
waiting to grant for several years
or more.
He cleared his throat a couple
of times, pulled his forehead into
violent furrows, opened and
closed his hands. Then he sat
down abruptly on one of the
heavy dining-room chairs and
put his elbows on the table.
“Well, I did keep some of your
dividends back, but I only did
it in your own interests. I put
the money where it is safe, and
when you are older and wiser
you’ll thank me, because you’ll
still have it when you might
have spent it.”
Mrs, Kraftmann was smiling
and nodding at her children,
saying as plainly as in speech
“I told you so. You can trust
your father. He’s a wonderful
businessman.”
But Rhoda was.still dissatis-
fied and anxious. Her father
was treating her with less than
the respect to which a major
shareholder was entitled.
“When can we have our divi-
dends?” she asked.
Kraftmann saw her suddenly
as his youngest daughter and
not as a dangerous business an-
tagonist ; he assumed the breezy,
high-spirited role of a bantering
father which had worked so well
when she had been a small girl.
“You can have yours now,”
he said, “if you’re prepared to
take it in kind. It’s all been put
back into the farm. There’s
twenty-five miles of new subdi-
vision fencing that cost three
hundred pounds a mile; or
there’s the big steel oat-silo and
four new sheds —or perhaps
what Rhoda would like best, be-
cause it would be so handy for
her to carry away, the six big
new six - thousand - cubic - yard
dams.”
He lurched back in his solid
chair, arms on the rests and
laughed aloud at the capital joke
he had made of the affair, ex-
pecting Rhoda to join in. But
Rhoda was not amused.
“You can’t do that with our
money, without our consent.
You can’t even say you’ve paid
it to us when you’ve sunk it in
the property like that. You still
owe it to us; and I’m going to
see that we get it.”
She was determined and
vehement. Kraftmann lost his
easy assurance.
“It would be a financial im-
possibility to suddenly pay out
a lot of money like that. Even
your share, Rhoda. Have a bit
of sense, child! Taxation nowa-
days doesn’t leave you large
heaps of cash to play around
with.”
The bafflement which had be-
gun to show in Rhoda’s face
was suddenly dissipated by the
significant word “taxation.”
“Gregory said you probably
didn’t pay tax on the money
you kept,” she accused him, for-
getting in her agitation that the
position was not exactly as Brey-
ley had imagined.
Kraftmann looked momen-
tarily uneasy; then he became
more confiding.
“It was the high taxation that
made me do it,” he said, as if
that exonerated him as good as
completely. “If I didn’t pay
big dividends I’d have had to
pay terrible high company-tax.
And if I paid you big dividends
while you were only more or
less children all that good money
would have been lost to the
property. So I did what I did,
and now you own the best-
improved property in the
Riverina.”
He looked them all in the face
again, assured that such an end
justified any means. But Rhoda
was unrelenting.
“I’m sure you can’t do things
like that,” she said, doggedly ;
“even apart from doing us out
of our dividends, I’m sure
you’ve been breaking the law
somewhere.”
Everyone was surprised to
hear Mrs. Kraftmann laugh,
gaily and confidently.
“Oh, what a foolish, obstinate
girl you are, Rhoda! You’ve let
that silly young man get such a
hold over you that you think
your father can’t do anything
right.”
“As a matter of fact,” Alec
said, in the reluctant way in
which he entered any discussion
about money, “Rhoda’s prob-
ably right. If you pay out
dividends to escape taxation,
and then decide, after all, to keep
most of the dividend money,
then you must be up for the taxa-
tion you were trying to escape
in the first place.”
Kraftmann’s eyes flicked from
one to another as he tried to
work out a way of convincing
them all that he had done the
right thing. Then Rhoda became
o Continued on page 22)
“Fetch me a gun!” he shouted. "To shoot the scum."


THE BEST CAR
r
1
ROLLS
IN THE WORLD
RECOMMENDS
A COMPLETE RANGE
OF AUTOMOTIVE
OILS AND GREASES
. equally suitable for new
and run-in engines
ROYCE
liaii
mi 20
. ui «o Z. _ in so
LI (O fMI f
W//////////
'wz/iisa
W/////////Z
i MOT o« Oil
ROYCE
MARKETED BY
fi
6
0
0
6
OBTAINABLE AT
AN
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd)
LTD
i
y
Mobilco
TRACTOR-MOUNTED
COMPRESSOR
PUMPS, POWER GREASES, SPRAYS
There's a lot less hard work for
you when you fit a Mobiico Com-
pressor to your tractor power
greasing, fuelling, tyre pumping,
paint spraying, tree spraying come
easily to this inexpensive little
farm aid. And by a quick piston
and cylinder change-over you can
convert to a really effective boom
spray. That's a lot to get from
one compressor and you're buying qualify as well
af' first class article built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months. Post the coupon
below for fuller details.
REMEMBER, IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND ALL
MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS
f COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without obligation, j
all details of the MOBILCO COMPRESSOR I]
Name . !
Address — 1 J
! _ . I
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
47 South Parade, Campsie. IF 4209 - Telegrams; Mobilco, Sydney
Head Office - - - 410-416 Whitehorse Road, Mitcham. V.dona
Phone: WU 1081 (9 lines) - - Branches: Brisbane, Adelaide, Perm
Tasmania - - - Cameron & Sutherland ltd., Launceston and Hobart
authoritative as she always did
when she quoted Breyley.
“The money either goes to us
or to the Taxation Department.
That’s what Gregory said, and
he knows.”
“Oh, bother your silly
Gregory!” Mrs. Kraftmann put
in quickly to forestall her
husband.
“It’s not Gregory,” Rhoda
explained wearily to her mother,
“It’s the law. Father’s got to
give up the money to someone ,
and surely it’s better that we
have it than it be wasted on the
taxation-people.”
Kraftmann remained silent,
not admitting the difficult posi-
tion he was in, but Mrs. Kraft-
mann continued to work hard
to justify him.
“Silly girl,” she said, still
affecting to be slightly amused.
“The law didn’t mind what your
father was doing until your
precious Gregory came along,
upsetting everything and every-
body,”
“The law didn’t know what he
was up to,” Rhoda said with
cool significance. Mrs. Kraft-
mann gave her up, with a gentle,
resigned gesture of her hands.
“Only the pastor can save
her,” she said. Then she looked
at the clock.
“Goodness me, half-past ten;
time we were all in bed. Another
busy day tomorrow.”
“Yes, time we went to bed,”
Kraftmann said with relief, get-
ting up to go.
He had a healthy way of not
allowing his troubles to keep
him awake; and the next day he
was usually so busy with other
matters that he soon forgot
them, so that, with his consider-
able experience to support him,
he had come to believe that the
end of the day could be
welcomed as the end of his
troubles.
But as soon as the parents
had left the room Rhoda turned
to Alec and said with a deter-
mination that astonished him:
“We can’t let him do that to
us. Treat us as if we were
children. Keeping our money
from us.”
“There’s no need to be so
tragic about it.” Alec tried to
placate her. “After all, he gave
us the shares. He could have
kept the property in his own
name, and we wouldn’t have
been entitled to more than
wages.”
Rhoda condemned him with a
glance for not standing up for
his rights.
“That’s one of the worst things
about it. He’s just making use
of us as if we bad no minds or
will of our own. He forms a
company to make us think we
ought to work hard for it, then
when he finds he has to pay out
money to us, he just keeps it, as
if we had no say in the place at
all.”
“We’ll get it all someday,”
Alec said.
There was a knock on the
door, and Johnny came in
apprehensively.
“Mrs. Kraftmann told me to
come in here and see you,” he
said. Then his dark, brown
eyes flashed angrily almost like a
gipsy’s. “I thought there’d be
trouble, with that sod Breyley
coming sneaking in the back-
door at night.”
“It’s not his fault.” Rhoda
defended him strongly. “It’s
Father’s ; he’s been holding back
our dividends and putting the
money into new fences and dams
and oat-silos and sheds.”
“Good on him,” Johnny
replied, stirred to immediate
enthusiasm. “That makes our
shares worth so much more.”
Rhoda stared at him for a
moment, surprised that there
could be so different a view-
point ; then she attacked him
vigorously.
“How can the shares be more
Valuable when we don’t get any
dividends?”
Johnny’s reply was equally
vehement.
“What would be the use of
paying a lot of money out in
dividends to irresponsible young
people? Now, just say you’d
been getting a thousand or so a
year; where would it be now?”
“Saved up,” Rhoda asserted,
Johnny laughed disbelievingly.
“Saved up?” he said. “Say
Alec had got his, would he have
it all saved up? You know he
wouldn’t. And say he did save
some of it, wouldn’t he have lost
it all over this car accident?
And wouldn’t Vila lose hers
promoting all her crazy concerts
and operas? And wouldn’t your
mother lose hers, giving it all
away to those fellows with note-
books at your church?”
“I would have saved mine,”
Rhoda put in.
Johnny laughed cruelly:
“Until some fast-talking
schemer came along and married
you for it. Then who would
have it, I’d like to know; you
or him?”
“Steady, steady,” Alec said,
“no need to be offensive.”
“It’s bloody hard not to be
offensive,” Johnny said, his eyes
still smouldering, “when I see
her taking sides with that squirt
against a man like her father
By cripes, she ought to talk to
the men who work on other pro-
perties around here —they’re the
ones who know a good man from
a Crook. Why doesn’t she open
her eyes when she drives around
the country? Half the places are
just like they were when the
aborigines owned the country:
only a sort of a fence round
them, and a kind of a house.
Never heard of sowing new
grasses or clover, or top-dressing
with fertilisers. As soon as it
doesn’t rain for a few weeks
they’re screaming ‘Drought!’
No grass, and no stored fodder
like we have. Or else they’re
out of water because they haven’t
any decent-sized dams.”
He stopped and glared at
Rhoda, apparently surprised that
she still didn’t share his admira-
tion for her father. Then he
went on, talking vigorously and
much faster than his usual
drawl:
“The other day I met a new
bloke in a pub. He wanted to
know where I worked. When I
told him, he said, ‘Gripes, you’re
lucky, you can do something
useful on a place like that.
Where I am, we never do any-
thing but look for lost sheep
that get through the rotten
fences.’ ”
“Oh, you don’t understand,”
Rhoda said impatiently. “You’ve
only got a few shares, and it
doesn’t matter so much if you
don’t get any dividends.”
Johnny winked at Alec.
“I might have a few more
shares than you think,” he said,
“but that’s not the point. What
I say is, we should all stick to
Mr. Kraftmann and back him up
in any trouble he has with this
skunk Breyley.”
Rhoda jumped up and rushed
to the door, pausing there to snap
at Johnny.
“You just won’t admit there’s
any good in Gregory. And I
know why.”
“All right, you know why.
Well, I don’t deny it; it’s there,
and I’m not ashamed of it. But
say” — here Johnny became
ruminatively thoughtful—“ever
since I’ve come in here I’ve been
wondering how Breyley managed
to find out all those things. Have
you been playing some low tricks
on your old man?”
Rhoda put out her chin.
“I gave Gregory the books so
we could find out what’s really
going on here. I had a right to
do that.”
Johnny’s chin dropped. Then
he exploded.
“By God, Rhoda, I'm begin-
ning to think that I’ve made a
mistake about you! I always
thought you were a decent girl.
An extra decent girl, in fact.”
Johnny blushed because this
was, to him, tantamount to
a declaration of love—in the
presence of her brother, too. He
had to be tough to cover it up.
“Perhaps I did make a mistake.
I must have. If you’re so fond of
a sneak like Breyley that you'd
do that for him, then you must
be the same sort of person as
him. And that’s not the sort of
person I want to have much to do
with.”
He got up and walked out of
the room with abrupt rustic
jerks.
Rhoda’s eyes came round
slowly to meet Alec’s; a sugges-
tion of apprehension in them, a
paler blue.
“Well,” Alec said with a wry
smile, “that’s one view of
Breyley, and you can’t say off-
hand that it isn’t the right one.”
“Oh, he’s only an inexperi-
enced farm-boy,” said Rhoda,
though her voice betrayed a lack
of complete conviction; “he
doesn’t understand anything
about a man like Gregory.”
She went to the door again
and murmured, half to herself;
“I do hope he remembers
about getting Father’s books
back quickly. It will be terrible
if Father finds out they’re gone.”
“You’re right there,” Alec said,
decisively. “You’d better see
that they’re in his office pretty
quick. He might decide to have
a look at them any day, and if
they’re not there. Hell will be a
pleasant place compared with
our home.”
Rhoda turned again, to see if
Alec really thought it would be
as serious as that, then she gave
a loud, old-fashioned sigh and
said, “I suppose I’ll just have to
face it. Well, good-night.”
{To be continued)
BEN BONNEY, STOKER
Today Ben Bonney said good-morning.
Saying good-morning back,
With the burnt-milk breath of the brewery
Lying between us slack
As old Ben’s belted-under belly,
Is part of my walking-to-work
Delight, unless the morning is chilly:—
For Ben, besides an old-age pension,
Has a cough, his only care.
We bid but the time of day to each other,
Yet our rapid calls like the air
In the gully are a river flooding,
And up and down Ben’s stair
Break quick channels in the brewery’s brooding.
Ben sits alone on his small veranda
And hangs his arms on the rail
And watches passers-by, and the brewery;
He worked there, shovelling coal.
When the wind gets up, his cough must follow
And he drags himself like a snail
Indoors along his wall of sorrow.
He is powerless as smoke from the brewery s
chimney.
As dark, thick and tall.
But when the day is warm and sunny,
Ben Bonney’s morning call
Is strong and triumphant, brimming good-spirit,
Not like a sick man’s at all—
And I think he could stoke the world when I
hear it.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. P. THORPE, MANAGER,
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign’.... £2/10/-
C Please add exchange to country cheques )
P for Peter
By JOHN HORNER
IT was a sickly plant. Talbot
realised that as he watched
MacLeod intently erecting a
palisade of sticks to protect
it from the biting, sand-laden
wind that swirled round the grey
clumps of camel-thorn.
Mac’s garden had been a joke
at first, when one of the handful
of peas he had scrounged from
the cookhouse had grown. There
had been something fascinating
about the vitality of the upthrust-
ing shoot, so vividly green against
the camel-thorn and the dirty
yellow of the desert sand.
But, watching his friend half-
ashamedly breaking the ' thin
sticks and pushing them into the
ground around the plant, Talbot
.knew that it wasn’t a joke any
longer.
“Pea for Peter,” he said, and
the short, forced laugh and
sudden tautening of MacLeod’s
lips made him wish he hadn’t
spoken. It was bad enough for
Mac to have got this super-
stitious fear into his fool head,
but it was worse for him to know
that Talbot was aware of it.
P for Peter was the plane in
which MacLeod flew.
Talbot left the tent and walked
towards the operations-room, his
hands thrust deep into his
pockets. His lean form was bent
forward and he was scowling.
The wind was rising and long,
thin whirls of sand were begin-
ning to writhe about his feet.
What a place, he thought.
Men shouldn’t have to live in a
desert. It made life Seem insig-
nificant. Nothing but the
stagnant half-life of the camel-
thorn and the cold wind stirring
up the dead dust of the centuries.
Nothing really (alive but us.
Some of us. He thought of the
dead men’s kit piled now at the
back of their tent and the burnt-
out wrecks about the desert
which would be, before long,
the only visible sign of their
passing.
He took his hands from his
pockets and straightened up as
he entered the ops.-room. There
was no one there but the sergeant
on duty, who had just finished
writing-up the board for the
next day’s operations. MacLeod
was on stand-by but Talbot
wasn’t. Talbot wished that it
had been the other way about,
especially as tomorrow would
probably see the end of opera-
tions for a time.
Mac and he would be going
on rest, anyhow. They’d been
here too long, standing by, stand-
ing down, seeing old crews go
and new crews come, and go.
Raids were all right; it was the
hanging around in between that
got you down. And now there
were these cloud-cover raids that
Group had thought up and was
likely to spring on them at any
moment. The last two aircraft
that had gone out on them hadn’t
come back.
Talbot sauntered back towards
the tent. The sand was rising,
and he half-closed his eyes
against the sting of it. If it gets
much worse, he thought, the
aircraft will be grounded to-
morrow. In any case it wouldn’t
do Mac’s damned pea any good.
He knew what was troubling
Mac. He’d been too long on the
squadron, and was getting
frightened now that he was so
close to finishing.
So many chaps bought it on
what should have been their last
op. The pea was only a symbol.
When it was green and healthy
Mac had kidded himself that
he’d be all right as long as it
grew. He hadn’t expected this
sudden sickening of it which was
accentuating his fear. A rabbit’s
foot would have been a damn’
sight more sensible, Talbot
thought grimly.
WHEN he arrived back at the
tent he found that the truck
had called and picked up the kit
of the two chaps who had been
killed the day before.
MacLeod lay on his stretcher,
reading, and the half-empty tent
seemed to deepen the desolation
of the leaden winter’s evening.
They’d seen the same emptiness
several times previously, but that
was in the thick of things and
hadn’t seemed to matter so much.
Now, while they waited, tense
and anxious, for the signal to
stand the squadron down, it was
more ominous.
He tossed a cigarette to
MacLeod, lit one himself and sat
silent on the edge of the stretcher,
looking out through the tent-
flap at the streams of sand whirl-
ing in ghost-dances about
MacLeod’s pea-guard.
He flicked away the cigarette-
butt and stood up, forcing a
brightness into his voice and
actions.
“Let’s go over and have a few
pots.”
MacLeod agreed readily.
“Right. It’ll be a bit less
dismal, anyhow.”
The lights were already on in
the mess, and the musty smell of
the drifting sand was more
noticeable inside than it was out
in the open. Several small groups
had gathered, and the crowd near
the bar, mostly Englishmen, was
beginning to get boisterous.
MacLeod and Talbot joined a
group of Australians in the far
corner. Noisy Harris was there
and the others were listening to
him, adding an unnecessary word
of encouragement now and
again.
MacLeod sat sipping his beer,
much quieter than usual.
“Cheer up, Mac. You’ll soon
be dead.” That was from Harris,
who liked to see that he was
being appreciated.
MacLeod’s reply was good-
humored but obscene. The
crowd near the bar was getting
hilarious. Robertson was in the
centre of them, and presently
announced for the benefit of the
mess, “Robbie* will now bum
his hair!”
“Not again,” groaned Mac-
Leod, morosely.
Burning his hair was Robert-
son’s parlor-trick. He had frizzy,
black hair which he set light to
when he was especially merry.
Tonight, however, someone
poured some brandy on it as
soon as it was alight. A pale-blue
flame shot up, and as Robertson
beat it out with his hands, one
of his mates poured a handful of
sand over it. The mess appre-
ciated the variation.
“Waste of bloody sand! ”
shouted Harris, and went on
with the story that Robertson
had interrupted.
MacLeod found Harris’s
strident voice irritating. He
emptied his glass and pushed it
away from him.
“I think I’ll go to bed. Jack,”
he said to Talbot. “I’ll enjoy it
better tomorrow night.”
“0.K., Mac. I think I’ll grog
on for a bit. It doesn’t look as
though I’ll be needed tomorrow.”
“Lucky cow,” said MacLeod.
“I hope you’re sick.”
Talbot laughed. “See you
later, Mac,” he said as MacLeod
went out.
“Hell! Mac’s a bright boy
tonight,” Harris was saying. “He
looks as though he’d spent a
penny and found it was only
wind.”
Talbot joined in the laugh,
and then lapsed into a moody
silence. He wondered whether he
ought to have gone with Mac.
He shrugged his shoulders. He
wouldn’t make Mac feel any
better by acting as though he
thought that anything was likely
to happen to him.
He returned to his beer and
another episode in the life of
Harris. Noisy was a loud-
mouthed coot but usually amus-
ing. Tonight, however, Talbot
found him as annoying as Mac-
Leod had done. He had a few
more beers and found that, for
all the good it was doing him,
he might as well have been drink-
ing water. He decided to go to
bed.
“Can’t get a kick out of this
stuff tonight,” he said, “I think
I’ll give it away.”
He downed the last of the beer
in his glass.
“One for the road. Jack.”
Someone filled up his glass.
“One for the road, then.”
He drank the next beer
quickly, anxious to be gone now
that he had decided on it, and
put the glass back on the bar.
“See you all tomorrow night.
We’ll give it a kick along then.”
“She’ll be on for young and
old tomorrow night, if that stand-
down signal comes through,” said
Harris. “We’ll get you paralytic,
Talbot.”
“I’ll probably get myself
paralytic,” laughed Talbot, as he
moved towards the entrance.
“See you tomorrow.”
/''VUTSIDE, the sand was still
blowing though the wind
had dropped slightly. It was a
black night and Talbot was
within a few yards of the tent
before he could make out its dim
outline. He stumbled over some-
thing and there was the crack of
broken wood.
“Damn it,” he said softly.
MacLeod, who had been toss-
ing restlessly on his stretcher, sat
up, suspecting the reason for the
noise.
“Is that you, Jack?” he called,
and Talbot mumbled in reply,
“Yes, Mac.”
He was crouched beside the
guard, fumbling in the darkness
to replace the sticks he had
trodden down.
“What are you doing?” There
was an edge of querulous
suspicion to MacLeod’s voice.
“It’s all right, Mac.” Talbot
lifted a broken stick and, as he
did so, felt a slight tug. At that
instant, MacLeod’s torch flashed
on, and he stood beside the flap
of the tent gazing at Talbot, who
held in his hand a broken stick
and part of the green top of the
pea-plant.
MacLeod was thin-lipped and,
in the light of the torch, looked
pale and hollow-eyed.
“What did you do that for?”
“Sorry, Mac.”
MacLeod’s temper was rising.
“Being sorry’s no bloody good.
You’ve pulled it up.”
“It’s not pulled up, Mac.
There’s only a bit of green
broken off the top. It’s all right.”
“It’s not all right. The bloody
thing won’t grow now. You’ve
killed it.”
“Oh, come off it, Mac,” Talbot
walked into the tent and Mac-
Leod followed him.
“You knew it was there. It’s
been there for weeks. What did
you tread on it for?”
Talbot was getting exasperated.
“You don’t think I did it pur-
posely, do you?”
“Well, what did you pull it up
for?”
“I didn’t pull it up.”
“You did pull it up.”
Talbot pulled off his shirt
violently, and flung it at the
centre pole of the tent.
“Go to bed, Mac, and don’t
be so flaming childish.”
MacLeod took a step towards
him.
“Who’s childish?”
“You’re childish,” Talbot said,
quiet again after the last out-
burst.
MacLeod took another step
towards him.
“Come outside,” he snarled.
Talbot, who was just slipping
off his trousers, laughed mirth-
lessly. “Of course I won’t come
outside. Go to sleep and forget
it.”
“You’re yellow.”
“O.K. I’m yellow.”
A SUDDEN push in the chest
made Talbot sit back heavily
on the stretcher. MacLeod stood
over him, his fists clenched.
“Now will you fight?”
“No. Go to bed.” Talbot slid
in between the blankets. The
quietness of his voice infuriated
MacLeod.
“I’ll go to bed when I’m good
and ready. You rotten, yellow
louse, Talbot. I’ve had you!”
This is damned ridiculous,
thought Talbot.
“Right-oh, Mac,” he said,
“Good-night.”
MacLeod suddenly gripped the
edge of the stretcher and heaved
upwards, tipping Talbot and his
bedding on to the sand between
the upturned stretcher and the
side of the tent. Talbot decided
to stay there.
“Thanks, Mac,” he said.
Mac looked at him irresolutely
for a few moments, mad with
frustration and helpless rage. He
turned suddenly, got on to his
stretcher and switched off the
torch.
They lay in silence for a long
time, each aware that the other
was not asleep. MacLeod
remained rigid, feeding his anger
with his thoughts. The know-
ledge that he’d made himself
look ridiculous increased his
bitterness. He decided that he
hated Talbot’s guts, the smug,
self-satisfied louse.
After a long time Talbot got
up, rearranged his bed in the
dark and got back into it.
“Asleep, Mac?” he called
softly across the tent. MacLeod
moved to indicate that he was
awake but he made no reply.
They both eventually drifted off
to sleep.
Talbot was first awake next
morning, and, after sluicing him-
self at the wash-basin outside the
tent, came inside for a towel and
found MacLeod awake and look-
ing hard at the top of the tent,
“’Morning, Mac,” he said,
grinning half-ashamedly.
MacLeod continued to stare
fixedly upwards and said
nothing.
“Your pea-plant’s still all
right, Mac,” Talbot went on,
trying to break through his
mate’s unfriendly silence.
Talbot’s serious tone made the
whole thing seem so ridiculously
childish that MacLeod’s anger
flared up again.
“No thanks to you. You
bloody great bumble-footed
bastard,” he replied, scowling.
“I told you last night, Talbot,
I’ve had you.”
“0.K., Mac. Have it your
own way,” Talbot answered
good-humoredly. “I’m going to
breakfast.”
“You can go to hell,” Mac-
Leod rejoined sourly.
HE came in to breakfast a few
minutes after Talbot, The
latter glanced his way now and
then, but MacLeod pointedly
fixed his attention on the casual
talk of those near him.
“He’ll come good before
long,” Talbot assured himself.
“He’ll be right as rain as soon
as today’s do is over.”
MacLeod kept away from the
tent after breakfast. He was busy
for a while at the ops.-room,
and then went off to drink tea
with some other Australians.
Talbot stayed in the tent writ-
ing letters. He noticed that Mac-
Leod had not watered the plant
or touched the sticks, but had
thrown the fast-withering top
inside the guard.
“Rubbing it in,” Talbot
thought grimly.
At eleven o’clock the ops.-
room gong summoned the stand-
by crews to assemble for briefing.
MacLeod came back to the tent
to pick up his parachute-bag
and Mae West. Talbot put his
((Continued on next page )


BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
W><,'’.^> : yi ♦ _ waSSsSM^s''.
*v«
><*♦'* ♦%♦
s *.
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TQ
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRAL!*
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is now available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can be manufac-
tured, and supplied, to Lloyd's Class 1 requirements, and
tn meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the AJSJM.E „ AJPJ.-A.SM.E., and S~4A.,
Codes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
■ PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
ATTENTION PLEASE!
BE PREPARED FOR THE
SUMMER
Spring now—summer shall not be long,
Be in the “Joyburner’' buying throng,
Knowing 20,000 users can’t be wrong.
Oh what a doggerel—but jokes aside you
will do yourself a service (particularly
if in the hot climate areas) by fitting
a “Joyburner Adaptor” to the kerosene
burner of your Refrigerator.
NO SMOKE—USE EEBS FtJBE—
EASTER FREEZING
“Joyburnera” are made for nearly all
kerosene-operated Refrigerators, or one
can be made especially to fit your unit.
Send a P.N. for 20/-, together with make
and size of unit, or a letter for further
particulars and pamphlet to
ERIC COATES
23 Ainslle St., Klngsford. FJ2339.
Canyon tell
a ‘big ’ Scotch from a
‘small’ Scotch?
We don’t mean, of course, the
difference between a double and a
single. We mean the difference
between the ordinary run of
whiskies—and a masterpiece such
as Ball’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an independent
firm of distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s Is not huge.
But to those who know it, it is
very, very precious. At Bell s
generation after generation have
handed on their skill: and this
coupled with the knowledge,
almost the intuition, of those
who make whisky ensures that
the barley, water and peat, aided
by the soft Highland air. go to
make a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky— and you
will acknowledge Its magic
mastery
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
distilled and blended
IN SCOTLAND
arv»
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 182?
0
BELCS
oic L\
<•O% SCOTCH WH'«S
"‘^wvsßJSsr
DISTILLERS
ISTAtUSHCO
iC o^ A
hand on his shoulder as he went
ou t.
“Good luck, Mac,” he said.
MacLeod shrugged the hand
away and went off without
replying. He felt a bit uncom-
fortable as he walked towards the
ops.-room, but consoled himself
with the thought that he was
going on the raid anyway, not
Talbot. It would serve Talbot
right, the clumsy cow, if some-
thing happened to P for Peter,
He stifled the half-formed
thought, and decided that he’d
just like Talbot to think that
something had happened.
When Talbot had seen the two
trucks with the aircrews pull
away towards the aircraft he
went down to the ops.-room.
“What’s the target, Tom?” he
asked the sergeant.
It was the landing-ground at
Barrani, the last Jerry had in
Egypt and likely to be heavily
defended.
Talbot went outside to watch
the take-off, looking for P. When
he failed to spot it he went inside
again and scanned the board,
Kearney, who was MacLeod’s
pilot, was flying M for Mother,
“What’s the matter with P?”
he asked.
“Unserviceable. They’re work-
ing on her now.”
The aircraft were taxi-ing to
their take-off positions. The
heavy cloud which had earlier
obscured the sky was breaking
and away to the north-west were
patches of vivid blue. Talbot
realised that he had been hoping
that the weather would ground
the aircraft for the day. They
were lined up along one side of
the ’drome now, running up,
sending great clouds of dust
swirling back across the desert,
Presently there was a deafening
roar and the aircraft on the
extreme began to move forward,
A couple of seconds later the
next aircraft on its left followed
it, and the same procedure fol-
lowed right down the line to the
eighteenth. Within half a minute
the whole eighteen were airborne
and the first box of six was
already in formation. As they
completed one circuit of the
’drome the other twelve fell into
formation, six on either side of,
and slightly behind, the central
six. They headed away to the
west in fairl y ll S ht formation as
Talbot walked slowly back to his
tent to wait.
t ___ .
li/facLEOD was in the leading
plane of the starboard box.
He was wearing his parachute
harness, but the pack was in
front of him beside the bomb-
sight. He sat with his map and
log-sheet on his knee, and
through the perspex of the navi-
gator’s compartment he had a
clear view above and below and
on either side of him.
The Mediterranean stretched
blue and sparkling to the right,
and in front and to the left was
the dirty, yellow expanse of
desert.
MacLeod felt better. He’d
experienced a feeling of relief
when he’d found that they were
not flying as usual in P for Peter.
Besides, he was never frightened
once they got in the air. It was
only before a raid that he felt a
tenseness, an instinctive recoil
from operational flying. He was
quite calm now, and curiously
detached from human living, his
alert brain registering each
unusual movement as sensitively
as the pointer of the air-speed
indicator, and with as little
regard for past or future.
Z for Zebra was on the right,
its wingtip almost touching the
wingtip of M. A for Apples on
the left was slightly further back,
not formating so well. At Burg
El Arab the escort of six Spit-
fires came up to meet them, and
every now and then MacLeod
could see one weaving above
them.
They crossed the coastline and
flew parallel to it and out to sea.
Now Mersa Matruh and Ras
El Kenayis were clearly visible
ahead. The desert on the left
seemed strangely quiet; a few
trucks crept slowly along the
black ribbon of road.
Now they were at nine-
thousand feet and Barrani was in
sight. They crossed the coast,
and swung inland towards the
landing-ground which stood out
clearly as a square yellow patch
in the surrounding grey-green.
The formation was diving to
gain speed for the attack. It
wheeled sharply and began weav-
ing as it approached the target.
The desert beneath seemed still
and void of life, but he noticed
three spears of dust appear sud-
denly on the landing-ground and
suspected they were enemy
fighters taking off. He had a
momentary glimpse of a Spitfire
hurtling past the formation in a
screaming dive.
He had his parachute clipped
to his chest now, and the micro-
phone of the intercom, fastened
over his mouth. He was kneel-
ing before the bomb-sight and
gazing down through the bomb-
ing panel, his seat pushed well
back in case he had to bale-out.
The leading aircraft waggled
its wings and the others slid out
into bombing position. He felt
the formation level out and heard
the pilot say “Bomb-doors
open.”
Two black bursts of ack-ack
appeared in front of and below
them. MacLeod watched the
leading plane. He could see the
bombs in its belly. One dropped
away. He pressed the first switch.
“Number one bomb gone,” he
said into the intercom.
“Two.”
“Three.”
“Camera on.”
“Four.”
The time between bombs
seemed interminable.
“Five.”
The ack-ack was getting closer.
He felt the aircraft buck as a
shell exploded beneath it. From
the corner of his eye he glimpsed
others of the formation bounc-
ing about in the air.
“Six, , Jettison switch down.
Bombs away!”
“Bomb-doors closed,” from
the pilot.
'THEY were diving steeply in
-*• a tight turn to starboard.
The ack-ack was right among
them. You could hear it burst-
ing, and now and then catch its
acrid smell.
Great blobs like fleeces of
black wool hung in the air,
appearing suddenly before them,
MacLeod turned off the camera
and gazed down through the
bombing-panel. Mushrooms of
sand and yellow smoke patterned
the ground, and were beginning
to drift across the landing-ground
where the first bombs had fallen.
Two enemy aircraft were burn-
ing, and a thick column of black
smoke was beginning to rise.
The ack-ack was still among
them.
A shell burst beside the turret
of No. 2 aircraft, beside the
leader. The plane fell out of
formation, diving steeply. As
MacLeod watched it the whole
rear section from the turret back
broke away and a trail of smoke
began to pour from the forward
part. He saw one parachute open
and then, a little later, another.
The engines and mainplane hit
the deck and a black cloud of
smoke boiled up. The two white
specks were still visible.
They were crossing the coast
again now, and had regained
tight formation. The ack-ack
had dropped away behind them.
They went a little way out to
sea, and MacLeod climbed back
into his seat as they turned home-
ward. He was wondering who
had bought it, mentally running
over the captains in the forma-
tion. That was it... Jenkins ...
an Australian with, he thought,
an English crew. They hadn’t
been long on the squadron. Mac-
Leod shrugged his shoulders.
He hadn’t known them very
well.
Ordinary humanity began to
seep back, a feeling of happiness
and wellbeing pervading him.
The waters of Arab’s Gulf
sparkled in the sunlight, the
white, drifting clouds casting
shadows of deeper blue here
and there. The sun through the
perspex was luxuriantly warm,
and, loosening the strap of his
helmet, he sat back comfortably.
The rest of the crew were
beginning to chatter over the
intercom., a sure sign that they
were on the way home, but he
was only half-listening. He was
thinking about Talbot. “What a
lot of rot it had been!” he
thought. “Poor old Jack!”
He felt slightly remorseful,
but was too pleased with fife for
anything to dampen his spirits.
They’d give the grog a kick along
tonight, he decided. He felt
magnanimous. The smoky green
smudge of the Delta was now
visible on the horizon.
BACK at base they broke
formation, landed and taxied
to their separate dispersal-points.
The truck picked them up, and
took them back to the ops.-room
for debriefing. Talbot was not
waiting as MacLeod had
imagined he would be,
“Sulking in the tent,” he
thought, “I’ll soon stir him out.”
He waited impatiently till the
operations-officer had finished
with him and then hurried
towards the tent. As he passed
the pea-plant, he gave the sticks
a quick, disdainful kick.
“Right-oh, Talbot!” he yelled.
“What are you skulking there
for?”
There was no reply. He
walked inside. Talbot was not
there. MacLeod felt a slight dis-
appointment as he put away his
parachute-bag. It was then that
he noticed that Talbot’s bag was
not in its usual place. Neither
was his Mae West.
Before he knew what he was
doing, he was back at the ops.-
room. The letters E and P had
been added to the board since the
formation left. The captain of
P was Flying-Officer Green,
Talbot’s captain. He turned to
the ops.-officer.
“Where have E and P gone?”
“Cloud-cover on Barrani.
They left about an hour ago.”
MacLeod was suddenly and
unreasonably angry.
“But there’s not enough cloud.
It’s clearing fast,”
“I suppose they’ll turn back
then.”
“They shouldn’t have gone.
Group must have known that
there wasn’t enough cloud.”
“That’s Group’s business.”
The ops.-officer was busy and
his reply was brusque.
MacLeod started to answer,
then turned quickly and walked
outside, half-dazed. His anger
fixed itself illogically on the ops.-
officer.
“It’s all right for him,” he
thought, “sitting there safe on
his backside, asking fool ques-
tions, the useless bloody stooge.”
There was a crowd outside
listening to the C.O. MacLeod
caught the tail-end of his words.
“ sit back and take it easy.
The order has just come
through.”
There were cheers as MacLeod
went forlornly back to his tent,
irritated by the high spirits of
the others. He sat morosely on
the edge of the stretcher, over-
whelmed by a bitter and child- 1
like resentment, saying “Blast
it!” again and again.
Cloud-cover raids were hell!
After a while he got up and
began fixing the sticks that he
had kicked aside, cursing himself
for a superstitious fool as he did
so. The drone of an aircraft
{Continued on page 34)


Two Kinds in New Guinea
Little-known People
By JACK LUSBY
r\ CUTTING from the
r““\ “South Pacific Post,”
Port Moresby, August
11:
Patrol Officers R. J. Daugherty
and R. Claridge have left Mount
Hagen on a combined Southern
and Western Highlands patrol to
the Kaugel River and Karamui
areas. They anticipate it will take
from three weeks to a month’s
walk to reach their destination.
The object of the patrol is to con-
solidate Administration influence,
to contact the little-known peoples
of the Karamui area, and to
determine the course of the lower
reaches of the Kaugel River and
its relation to the border of Papua
and that of New Guinea.
Put like that, it doesn’t sound
very exciting. Not unlike the
“Mr. Smith has gone to Sydney
for a holiday” type of personal
par. in a country paper.
I can see stocky, black-
moustached Daugherty and
lanky, sandy Claridge leading the
long line of carriers and alert,
armed police-boys (instructed not
to shoot back under an initial
shower of arrows), walking,
climbing, clambering, slipping,
sliding over freezing divides and
through warm, sodden valleys, in
the deafening roar of tumbling
rivers and the utter silence of
moss-jungles, plugging away for
a month to get to their job of
work. To consolidate Adminis-
tration influence and contact
little-known people.
Daugherty and Claridge, and
the other Australian youngsters
doing the same job, are them-
selves little-known people. Some
New Guinea patrols pass
hyphenated into legend; Hides-
and - Maloney; Harris - and -
Szarka. But mainly it’s unsung
work, Daugherty and Claridge
almost certainly had an un-
eventful trek, by news-angle
standards. Just one of several
routine penetrations going on at
the same time. But I find it
stirring to think that such patrols
are meeting and making friends
with peoples secluded behind
mountain barriers since pre-
historic times. It’s important.
If Australia fails to consolidate
Administration influence right up
to the Dutch border by the end
of 1956 she could lose her New
Guinea mandate. And
bring Red Asia yowling
to her doorstep. That’s
apart from any more
uncomfortable possi-
bilities.
The young Daughertys
and Claridges are front-
line diplomats, with
much dependent on their
skill and commonsense
and courage. It seems
strange, thinking about
it, that we don’t know
more about them.
Directed and supported
by seasoned district-
commissioners, they are
bringing about a million
and a half warring
people under peaceful
control. Can the United
Nations claim as much
solid achievement, pro-
portionately?
Inevitably, the control
is spread thinly over new
areas, and the natives are
tempted occasionally to
test it. Jack Emanuel and
John Hayes, patrol types
based at Minj in the
Wahgi, handled a typical
incident early this year.
The charter - plane
plunked down on a strip
near the Wahgi-Jimi
divide and out came
Emanuel and four police-boys
with a pile of gear. Glad to
practise my English again I
went over and passed the time
of day. Could I rustle-up thirty
cargo-boys? Sure thing! A
messenger went hallooing into
the kunai. ,
The plane returned to Minj
to bring Hayes and four more of
the dusky constabulary.
The story was that one native
faction had invited another to
a sing-sing up near the top of the
“... walking a month to get to their job of work.”
range. Axework is crude play.
On this occasion an inter-tribal
difference was settled more
sociably. The provender dis-
agreed with seven of the guests
and their mourners were scream-
ing for justice. They’d left the
party taking one of their hosts
as hostage, and had sent the talk
to Emanuel at Minj.
Hearing that the survivors of
the banquet had appealed to the
Kiap the other crowd had
boasted that any interfering busy-
bodies of the white persuasion
would be killed also. Emanuel
and Hayes were going up to
prick that balloon in a firm but
friendly manner by making the
"... force and precision.”
defiant chefs guests of the Gov-
ernment at Minj.
“What poison do they use?”
I asked.
“We’ve never found any
poison in the kai after these
parties,” Emanuel told me.
“We’ve had the grub analysed a
couple of times. Nothing in it.
Seems the blokes eat it, are then
told it’s been doped and die.”
A crowd of natives had
gathered, bringing fresh-cut
carrying-poles. Under Vociferous
police-boy supervision the bark
was stripped and twisted into
ropes. Boxes of ammunition,
food, medical supplies and a
couple of bed-rolls were quickly
arranged to give each pair of
carriers an equal load.
Emanuel, a big, quiet bloke,
was keeping a casual eye on
things. Hayes, looking very much
like a schoolboy on holiday, was
sitting on a box, decorating the
end of his walking-stick with
the brass butt of a shotgun-
cartridge. He was making an
artistic job of it.
They had a four-hours’ climb
to the delinquent village. It was
two-o’clock. Just do it in day-
light with luck. The patrol
moved off in single-file, stretching
along the strip till it looked like
a three-hundred-foot black
snake with a splash of khaki at
its head. A pretty vulnerable
snake later on, crawling up
the mountainside. That’s the
impression a patrol gives the
onlooker, with its long line of
carriers helpless under pole-slung
loads. In long grass or jungle
arrows can fly at point-blank
range from unseen bowmen.
That night four inches of rain
fell on the range and it was
bitterly cold. There’s little
comfort footslogging in New
Guinea. Sitting indoors by the
fire I thought of Emanuel and
Hayes up there at eight- or nine-
thousand feet in the open, and it
struck me that patrol-officers
must have a big streak of the
beach-fisherman in them.
A few days later the talk came
down that the patrol was return-
ing with a string of prisoners. In
due course:
“Well, how did it go?”
“0.K.”
Just another patrol.
It says much for the Aus-
tralian training and temperament
that “incidents” are remarkably
rare. When they do occur,
officers exercise great restraint to
avoid aggravating a situation.
This forbearance has become a
New Guinea tradition. At about
the time that Emanuel and
Hayes were roping-in their
“poisoners,” another lad was
leading a patrol near Mendi,
south-west of Hagen. He was
ploughing through tall pit-pit
cane when an arrow ripped
through his shirt. A near thing,
He called on his attackers to hold
their fire and tried to parley with
them. Nothing doing—a shower
of arrows whizzed at the patrol;
the police-boys were told to fire
back, dropped two natives and
the attack ceased. Within a few
days the ringleaders were under
arrest. Then a native informer
was murdered, and the men
responsible for that had to be
brought in.
This incident illustrates the
nice distinction young patrol-
officers must make, in trying
circumstances, between provoca-
tion carried to the point where
life depends on retaliation, and
provocation which doesn’t justify
trigger-pulling, A decision call-
ing for considerable calmness
when arrows are flying.
The Mendi braves concerned
in this attack, incidentally, are
notoriously more truculent than
neighboring groups.
These arrows aren’t kids’ darts.
They’re fired swiftly, with force
and precision. Before me as I
write I have some of them,
barbed and lethal, and a couple
of the bows that send them. The
bows are split-cane, across
at the centre and tapered to the
tips, and only 4ft. long. The
“strings” are thinner strips of
cane. The arrows also are 4ft.
long. Their heads are barbed
hardwood, and the shafts light
cane. No feathers.
I once suggested to a native
that his weapons were show-off
stuff, and pointed to a tree about
60yds. distant. I reckon it took
him about a second to get set
and fire. Bang into the tree. I
gathered the impression that if I
had a .38 on my belt and he had
this weapon it would be a toss-up
who got in first; and at 60yds.
no toss at all about which would
be more accurate. I had a crack
at the bow then, and it took me
nearly half a minute just getting
set to fire. And my arrow, to the
grinning delight of my kanaka,
went high, wide and handsome.
A wonder it went anywhere.
Made me feel like a mug golfer
on the first tee.
Getting back to patrol policy,
the idea is to unforcefully con-
vince the indigenes that Aussie
rules are good for them. That
justice, reward and punishment,
will be carried out with
scrupulous fairness. No need
for pay-back feuds that go on
for generations and cost native
lives on both sides of a dispute,
Having heard this talk, the
natives test it. They’re “men
from Missouri.” And they have
their own strict sense of justice.
Some of their age-old rulings
have been incorporated in our
New Guinea law. Like if another
man’s pig wreaks havoc in your
garden or coffee; you may kill
the pig. Then you must let it
lie there and acquaint its owner.
He may claim the cadaver for
eating purposes when he’s made
good the damage. It’s wiser, of
course, to confine the pig alive
in the interests of public rela-
tions. But the native law, in this
typical case, is unimprovable.
On the testing of patrol-
officers’ talk about white-man
justice: Mt. Hagen Government
post, six months ago, was the
scene of an unusual gathering. I
was hanging round the strip wait-
ing for a plane. There was a
swelling sound of chanting, and
a column of men appeared in
the distance marching four
abreast. Nothing casual about
their approach. It was almost
military. Many were plastered
with white mouming-clay. They
were the “one-talks” of a man
who had been transfixed by a
spear but not, at first, fatally.
“Something nothing.” He’d even
recovered enough to work again
in his garden. But eventually
he’d collapsed and died, and his
mob’s blood was up. Death was
different, and they had come to
demand damages. Meaning as
much damage as possible to the
slayers.
They halted at the commis-
sioner’s office and squatted ; 200
warriors. The commissioner
stood looking at them. Then his
attention was distracted by a
fresh hubbub a second
invasion.
In about the same strength as
the first group, but noticeably
more cheerful, these fellows
marched up also and sat down
“close-to.” The spear-flinger’s
mob, attending to see that they
got a fair crack-of-the-whip.
Under the wary eyes of a few
police-boys both factions were
harangued by their respective
spokesmen, passionate talkers,
popping up in turn. The com-
missioner, Bill Dishon, hastily
(Continued on page 34)


Born 1820—
still going strong•
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IMB.U
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO LORIEN JANYOE McNAMARA (ad-
dress unknown). —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband JOHN JOSEPH McNAMARA
has commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground that you have
without just cause or excuse deserted him
for a continuous period of three years ana
upwards IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth in the State of Western Australia
within forty (40) clear days from the
date of this publication In default ot
your so doing the cause may proceed ana
Court will pronounce judgment and mane
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 4th day of October, 1954.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FABRICIUS & POLLETT, of Perpetual
Trustee Buildings, 89 St. George’s Terrace.
Perth, Western Australia, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
SIMPLEX i.im-hii
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at
r.p.m. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
g
£175
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr»
capacity, quoted on request. _
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSENDEN ROAD. NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Cup-time! The £10,350 Caul-
field Cup (odd hundreds for the
trophy itself) will be run next
Saturday. New Zealand owners
and their horses are again
prominent, and consensus of
opinion favors Rising Fast. Last
spring another New Zealander,
My Hero (he did his early racing
in N.Z., and was bred there), won
the mile and a half from Wodalla
and Most Regal, but ran third
to Wodalla and Most Regal in
the Melbourne Cup. Plato and
Advocate look the best of the
Sydney horses.
RISING FAST is selected
to win the Caulfield Cup
from KING AM ANA and
WODALLA.
A.J.C. Metropolitan place-
getters, Commodore, Master
Proven and Advocate, are
expected to face the barrier in
the Melbourne Cup, in which
New Zealand’s best staying
mare. Surprise Ending, is at the
top of the betting-table. On the
second line are Rising Fast and
Wodalla, with Master Proven,
Prince Delville and Sunish best-
fancied of the remainder. Run-
ning of the Caulfield Cup is likely
to make a number of changes in
the market.
Commodore’s win in the
Metrop. kept the doubles bookies
out of trouble. The New Zealand
horse has gone to air his laurels
in Melbourne, seeking more of
the same. Owner-trainer V. P.
(“Mo”) Bernard is one of the
shrewdest turfmen in this part
of the world, and is bound to
place Commodore to the best
advantage. Like any owner, “Mo”
would like to bag the Melbourne
Cup. Commodore is still in the
two-miler, with a handy pull in
the weights, so he might pull off
the Metrop.-Cup double—won,
within the last three years, by
Dalray and Delta. Commodore
doesn’t measure up to these two,
but he is a stayer.
• • • •
Winners of the Caulfield
Toorak Handicap aren’t often
found in the Caulfield Cup line-
up, so the mile isn’t much of a
guide to Cup prospects. In 1937
The Trump won both; so did
Royal Gem and Grey Boots in
recent years, Textile and Uncle
Sam earlier. Journal and Gaine
Carrington ran third in the
Toorak and then won the Cup.
But, by and large, the generalisa-
tion holds. The Plato stable
expects their horse to continue
last Saturday’s good work next
Saturday. As Plato won the
Toorak mile in (race- and
course-record time) there isn't
much doubt about his fitness.
But a mile and a half is a half-
mile longer, and he hasn’t shown
any form for the distance.
Since 1943, when he won oh
Burberry, Reg Heather has
ridden six winners in the Toorak
—Royal Gem, Don Pedro, Grey
Boots, Jovial Lad, Desert
Breeze and Plato on Saturday.
Last-named races in same colors
as Grey Boots, so owner-trainer
H. V. Cooper might again bring
off the Toorak-Cup double.
Plato is another good-’un by
Delville Wood (imp.).
Beaten in two-year-old barrier
trials at Randwick and Rosebery,
Aboukir did all right at the real
thing. He finished second to
Kingster in the Breeders’ Plate,
then had an easy win in the
Canonbury Stakes, for which he
was a 2-to-l favorite. Aboukir
is in Melbourne for the V.R.C.
Maribyrnong Plate and other
races for his age-group. Bought
in New Zealand as a yearling
for 2400gn5., the colt is by Gold
Nib (imp.) from Egyptian Rose
by Iliad (imp.). Related to
Shannon.
• • • •
Two-year-old filly Interesting
has had two starts for a third in
the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes and
a win in the Widden Stakes. She
has speed, and held off a late
challenge by Fire Scout;
favorite, Queen Nilo, was third.
Trainer Harry Darwon advised
owners H. Ward and N. H.
Bishop to give her a spell, as she
is growing fast. She cost 650gns.
as a yearling; bred at Fairways,
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), by Con-
fessor (imp.) out of Princess
Sovereign (by Golden Sovereign,
imp.) and goes back to Trenton,
a good stayer. A close relative,
Queen of All, won the Widden
Stakes last year. Others from her
family—El Senorita, Silver King
and Wedding Day.
Guncotton, 6-to-4 favorite and
winner of the Debutant Stakes
for colts and geldings at Caul-
field, looks a colt of promise.
Winner first start, the two-year-
old is trained, by N. D. Hoysted
for Sir Rupert Clarke and L. F.
Aldridge ; latter bred him. Gun-
cotton is by Empyrean (imp.)
from Aroma by Law Maker
(imp.) from Houbigant by The
Night Patrol (imp.), and belongs
to the family that produced
Ungar, Nuffield and Hall Mark.
Ungar’s wins included the
Doomben Ten Thousand.
Sydney three-year-olds have
done fairly well in the Caulfield
Guineas, although few of them
“Looks like poultry again, Dad!”
have contested that mile event.
Indian Empire, from Sydney,
almost won the Guineas last
Saturday. He finished a close
second to outsider King Boru;
favorite Clear Springs third.
Heads divided the three, and the
time, 1.37 J, was only a second
outside the record set by Attley
and Royal Gem in 1945, when
they ran a dead-heat. King
Boru was the smallest horse in
the field; so was Prince Delville
in the A.J.C. Derby.
Before the running of the
Adelaide Derby, S.A. opinion
rated Matrice as one of the best
three-year-olds in Australia.
Opinion somewhat modified
after the race. Starting at 5 to 2
on, he finished third. Pandie
Star beat Sequentia and Matrice
in 2.32|, record time for the race.
The winner is by Star of Baroda
(imp.) from Entice by Soltoi
(imp.), and was handicapped at
6.12 for the Melbourne Cup.
Winning the classic automati-
cally increases his poundage to
weight-for-age 7.6 ; so he’ll meet
A.J.C. Derby winner. Prince
Delville, on even terms. Pandie
Star won a couple of races in
Adelaide as a two-year-old, but
didn’t do well when he was sent
to Melbourne.
♦• * •
Phar Lap started his winning
career in a modest way, but
earned £66,738. Belbeiys has
won five races from seven starts
(last four wins in succession) at
Sydney meetings, and is being
hailed as “another Phar Lap.’’
Well, there have been several
such, and so far Belbeiys has
been winning against weak fields.
He could be the best horse of the
autumn ; but a lot could happen
between now and autumn. Some
of his winning margins have been
extraordinary. His presence in
the Randwick Members’ Handi-
cap scared several owners,
despite his 9.2. His time for the
mile, 1.36, was the same as that
recorded by Epsom winner Con-
naught. The gelding is owned
by Mrs, L. B. Israel and trained
by Jack Mitchell.
• * *
Nice to see Wodalla back on
the winning-list at Caulfield. He
beat Sun Salute and Durham in
the Herbert Power Handicap
m miles), and the win put him
right back in the reckoning for
both Cups, For both, he has
9st, —101 b. more than he had
when he won the Melbourne Cup
last year.
• • • •
Contrast: Nargoon, sold at a
Randwick auction last week for
550gns,, caused something like a
sensation at the 1952 yearling
sales (same suburb) when the
opening bid for him was 4000gns.
Then, he was knocked down to
G. and K. Newman, of Bourke
(N.S.W.), for 6500gns.
♦ * «
Saturday was one of those blue,
brilliant, Mediterranean - with -
out-regrets days Sydney turns
on occasionally, this time of the
year, for special occasions;
shining impartially on the crowd
at Randwick (45,000 to see the
Metrop.) and on the decidedly
lesser multitude at the Cricket
Ground, not far distant; on
those who played golf, cricket,
tennis, bowls, and on the
beaches.
At the Cricket Ground the
occasion was the G.P.S. sports.
And if the athletes, what with
butterflies in the tummy before
and puffing and regrets after,
didn’t get full value from the
sun, that’s in the inevitable
nature of things. For a few
there was the joy of achieve-
ment, tasting better after a
shower, naturally, and only
fully to be savored in retrospect,
served with the right depreca-
tory sentiments. For the many
there was the charm of reminis-
cence, and a carnival of youth
and high spirits, as impressive
in its way as the equine one
down the road. Good events
below (17 records broken or
equalled) and superb ones in the
Members’ Stand, where, some
day, Saturday’s athletes may see
the full beauty of their achieve-
ments.
• • • •
Of these Bryen Cameron’s
(Scots) 440 in 49.5 was the
best. He’s 16 and moves easily.
Brian Allsop, of Sydney High,
won the 100 in 10.1. He recently
won the Combined High Schools
and All Schools 100’s —three in
a row.
• * sit
And in Brisbane, earlier in the
week, they were playing snooker
—for the world’s amateur title.
Australian champion Warren
Simpson, of Sydney, went
through undefeated and took the
title. In the final Simpson beat
Englishman Frank Edwards
eight frames to three. In the
course of beating Bob Marshall,
Simpson set a new Australian-
record snooker-break of 92.
♦ * ♦
“J.H.”: I wrote (8.14/7/’54)
that the four Port Adelaide teams
(league firsts and seconds, senior
and junior colts) were then all at
or near the top of the various
ladders. Let me now add a post-
script that all four coveys of
Magpies reached the grand-final
but only one lot, the league firsts,
won—somewhat luckily, too, by
only three points in a fiery game ;
fiery both inside and outside the
boundary. But Port was unlucky
in another of the “grands”—in
an equally close but less violent
tussle Port’s junior colts went
under by one point.
* * *
Test selectors for the season
now here Sir Don, Jack
Ryder and Dudley Seddon.
Ryder’s the only one who helped
pick the teams against S’Africa
two seasons ago. Bradman, of
course, has done the job before;
he resigned when his son (now
recovered) went down with
polio. Seddon’s first term, but
he’s had a hand in the selection
of N.S.W. teams for some years.
♦ ♦ •
Samoan Fossi Schmidt, who
has been bowling ’em over at
Leichhardt lately, seems to be
the best heavyweight boxer now
in Australia. But most of his
opponents have been on the light
side, a fact which has made it
difficult to give a considered
opinion of his quality as a pug.
A 1 McCoy (13.2 D, an aborigine
from Rockhampton (Q.), was
more Schmidt’s weight (13.8),
but Schmidt floored the lad from
the North less than a minute
after the bout started. A clean
k.o.—-a left-hook to the head —
after some evasive action by
McCoy.
Semi-finals of the N.S.W.
amateur championships provided
most of the preliminaries. The
star turn light-heavyweights
Greg O’Hara and Jack Hayes—
was dimmed early, when O’Hara
stopped Hayes in not much more
than a minute. Flyweight Eddie
Elston beat Jim Branley on
points—the only points-win of
the evening. Welterweights
Kevin Branley and Billy
Hertzog fought evenly for two
rounds, but Hertzog had to retire
because of a gashed eyebrow in
the third. Peter Farrell stopped
Les Morris in the second round
of the lightweight semi-final.


HOMESTEADS and country
cottages TO YOUR DESIGN
av.wii.iK>
mmmrn.
fiwli r
* %»*? SMS.*. f' >
Above:—A Bowas 2-storey homestead situated in North-West Queensland
BOWAS patented CONSTRUCTION
offers you these advantages—
The simplicity and ease of timber-
frame construction plus the strength,
rigidity and durability of steel.
is
is
is
A solid, permanent structure not
affected by dry rot or white ants.
A building easily dismantled,
re-erected or added to.
Consult our architects for any floor
plan and design, single or two storey,
for Bowas Homesteads, Country
Cottages and Rural Accommodation
*
BOWAS
features—
Patented steel-
wood-steel frame
members, precision
cut to size and
assembled by
bolting.
All walls inside
and out — flooring,
roofing, etc. nailed
on as in timber-
frame construction.
buildings.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Willhms Steel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
Z aboriginal tales
Bugeen, the Kangaroo-man
By
Roeaud
Rolinson
ONE time my grandfather
and grandmother and
tribe were coming back
from Nowra to Currum-
been Creek. At Falls Creek
they see blackfellows who are
Bugeens, clever blackfellows.
My grandfather’s tribe camps
at Bit-Bit Creek. My grand-
father says, “Make camps
(Kabookas) and fires all around
in this place.”
That evening they go out after
kangaroos. [Kangaroos come
out feeding near sunset.] They
see old man kangaroo sitting up.
Grandfather sings out to old
blackfellow with muzzle-loader.
“Give it to him!” Old man
aims, fires. 800-oom!
When smoke clears away
kangaroo is still sitting there.
Old grandfather sing out, “Go
on, give it to him again!” Old
man rams down powder and
shot into the barrel. Takes aim.
800-oom! Barrel splits open.
Grandfather sings out, “Wal-
thow! Come on, we go home to
camp.”
When they get near to camp,
old lady calls out, “Get any
kangaroos?”
“No,” my grandfather says,
“those kangaroos were Bugeens.”
He tells the old lady about the
gun-barrel splitting.
“Right-oh, boys,” my grand-
father sings out. “Tell old
people to make good fires up
and pile on logs. Make beds,
spread out Bejahs.” [Wallaby-
skin and possum rugs sewn up
with kangaroo sinews.] They
sit down and give one another
smoke of Garndee. [Tobacco.]
Bugeen had gone down to
river and got little white stones.
This Bugeen climbs up big
woolly-butt. He stretches out
on limb like goanna. Old people
sitting round fire. Bugeen drops
pebble down into ashes. Old
people don’t take any notice.
Another stone comes down and
scatters coal about.
Grandfather sings out.
“Ngut!” [Look-out.] He looks
up into big tree. “Go on, you
boys,” he sings out. “Get bushes
and logs and make big fire up.”
Soon big fire going. Black-
fellows scatter around and look
up. “What’s that?”
“That looks like big bough
up there,” they say.
Bugeen has bent leaves and
branches round and over him.
Blackfellows see his side in the
firelight. They aim another
muzzle-loader at him.
“Go on, give it to him! ”
800-oom!
He still there, not move. “Go
on, give it to him again! ”
800-oom!
Bugeen still there. “Go on,
give it to him!” 800-oom!
Fire flaring up into tree. They
see him now. Then drops of
blood fall down onto the bushes.
They see him, lit up by the
fire, lying along the limb like a
goanna, in big dark cave of the
trees’ boughs. Then, like a gale
of wind, Whee-eesh, Whoo-00,
he flies away. He flies into night
and goes into some caves at the
Shoalhaven River.
Now two old blackfellows
were looking out for gumboughs
[koala-bears], honey, goannas,
anything they could find. They
see this Bugeen in a cave.
That cave up in cliff-face.
Dangerous place. One slip and
you gone. You couldn’t get to
that cave by swimming to it.
These two old fellows go home
and tell grandfather.
They say, “We couldn’t get
over to that cave, but we saw
him.”
My grandfather says, “That’s
right, we shot him. That’s him.
That one, Bugeen.”
Doolagarl, the Hairy-men
A DOOLAGARL is a gorilla-
like man. He has long
spindly legs. He has big chest,
long arms. His forehead goes
back from his eyebrows. His
head goes into his shoulders, no
neck. They live now on Cock*
why and Polawombera Moun-
tains.
If you walking with another
man or two men along road, a
bird: a night-hawk or sand-
piper sing out and come up to
you and give you warning. This
These stories were recently
related by the aborigine
Percy Mum bull a, son of old
Jacky Mumbulla (King Mum-
bulla) of the far South Coast
of New South Wales.
bird’s name is Moojingarl or
Budjarn.
Bird comes and cries out,
“Khaar-ah,” and cries out,
“Chick - a-chick-a-chick-a-chick-
a.” Almost pecks ground in
front of you and flutters along
ground. We have to follow that
bird three or four miles until we
see him no more. Then we out
of danger.
Doolagarl makes you weak
and tired. You can’t walk. Your
mate gets weak.
“What’s the matter?” you
say.
“I’m weak,” he says.
You bustle about. Make fire.
No let fire go out. If fire goes
out, you go to sleep. Doolagarl
comes. He lift up blanket. He
tickle you. If you laugh and
wake up, he grab you, put under
arm and walk off with you. He
tear off your arms, tear you to
pieces. He bash you against tree
and eat you, raw. Hairy-man.
One Doolagarl at Tathra. He
stop there.
My father, old Jacky Mum-
bulla and woman named Nardi,
who was good at climbing trees,
took some old warriors out with
them once for company. They
were going out for gumboughs
[koala-bears] or anything they
could find.
One old man wants to go of ;
alone. They say to this old man
“You knock on tree if you fine
anything.”
Old man goes off and climbs
tree for gumbough. He goes
out along bough. He throws
his tomahawk and hits a bear.
Bear falls down, thump! Then
this old man slips on bough and
falls. He breaks his back.
Qjd Jacky Mumbulla and his
tribe not hear knock on tree.
“Right-oh,” my father sings
out, “gather up all gumboughs,
whatever you got and start back
home to camp.”
They get back to camp, open
up bears, take out guts and
skewer up with sticks. They put
bears in hole in ground, cover
with hot ashes, and cook.
My father says to tribe, “If
old man not back by daylight,
we go out to find him.”
“Right-oh,” the others all call
out.
Daylight. No old man. My
father wakes up tribe. “Come
on, all you fellows, we have to
go out for old man.”
They find tracks where old
man dragged himself to big log.
Behind big log they find old man
asleep. They lift him up and
carry him back to the camp on
sticks.
Old man says that at night
Doolagarl, hairy-man, smell him
out. Doolagarl comes over and
old man, he clever fellow, sings
out and speaks to Doolagarl.
That hairy-man looks after old
fellow all night.
When daylight is coming,
hairy-man leaves. Hairy-man
can’t talk. He sings out, “Coo-
oo-00-ee! ” He sings out to say,
“Well, I’m going to leave you
now,”
He hits log with big stick :
Boong! as much as to say, “I get
back to mountain and bush.”
Hairy-man keeps looking behind
him, as he walks away, as though
in pity.
But no good. Old man die.
His back broken.
We look at it this way. Our
Saviour, Mirriarl, say this old
man hurt. Hairy-man takes pity.
Hairy-man has to eat. Mirriarl
make hairy-man not harm old
man because old fellow was
looking for his food and fell
off bough and broke his back.
Doowcm, the Two Avengers
T>ERTIE Benelong was a native
** of Kempsey tribe. He was
put through corroboree of this
tribe. They knock out two of
his front teeth with bundy.
Corroboree called Bunain.
Bertie broke the rules of this
tribe. He travelled south to
Nowra. There he got in with a
girl and married her.
He live at Nowra for years
/Until Kempsey tribe sent down
two men called Doowan after
him.
These Doowan are men who
have devils’ power. Perhaps
they sitting in group. There is
rush of wind, like wings passing.
They gone, they travel like wind,
like rush of wings. They stand
facing each other, foot touching
foot, one pointing north, one
pointing south. They rush
through the air. You hear
stones rattle across roof, that
Doowan,
This Bertie Benelong has to
keep moving about. He feel
these men coming close behind
him.
He goes to Bega, they are still
after him. He goes to Wallaga
Lake Mission. He couldn’t rest.
He says to his mate, “Well, I’m
going. I can’t stop. These men
are after me.”
Now Bertie tells the clever old
man Jimmy Clemens about
these two men. [There is a wax
figure of old Jimmy Clemens in
Canberra Museum.] Bertie
wants to go through the rules
of old Jimmy’s tribe to make
him strong to beat these two
men.
Old Jimmy takes him up on
mountain at Nowra. This
mountain is the one called Three
Sisters. Old Jimmy says to him,
“You must not be frightened.
You go through my rules, you
clever. Those men never kill
you. You follow up mountain
with me. Whatever I eat, you
eat. If stones and rocks roll
down mountain, rushing and
crashing past, if tree-limb falls,
comes straight down and sticks
in ground in front of you, you
keep on walking. You getting
power all the time.”
Bertie sees lights flashing, red,
green, yellow. Stones and rocks
go rushing past. They miss Old
Jimmy. They go up and up.
Tree-limbs crash down in front
of them, stick in ground.
Bertie can’t go on. Can’t stand
strain any longer. He says, “It’s
no use, old man, this power too
strong for me.”
Old Jimmy says, “Well, I
have to take you back.”
Old Jimmy left him at
Currumbeen Creek. Old Jimmy
went away out west to Canberra.
It was the time of Duke of
Gloucester’s visit.
Bertie goes back to his wife.
They travel about all night.
While his wife’s shadow is on
Bertie the two can’t hurt him.
Alone, the two can sing him,
make him come so they can
catch him.
Well, Bertie and me were
working together on mountain.
Bertie says, “Well, mate, listen.
The best thing we can do is to
roll our swags. Those two men
are coming, mate. They’ll be
here this evening.”
Well, we rolled our swags and
caught the bus to Nowra.
That night two blackfellows
were there, pelting little stones
on house to try and make Bertie
come out. His wife not let him
go out. Bertie want to go out
with tomahawk. You can’t see
those Doowan. They like
shadows. Bertie’s wife says,
“No, don’t go out, they’ll catch
you.”
Bertie and his wife go to
Greenwell Point [Rotary Park
Mission]. Those two men there
that night. Dogs barking savage.
Bertie feels those two Doowan
there.
Next morning he and his wife
go up river to work. He walks
in front, she behind him on track.
They camp. That evening Bertie
has to go for tucker. Two men
step out from behind tree and
throw Guneena [devils’ stones]
at him.
Bertie goes back to his wife.
He says, “Well, mate, I’m done,
I’m caught.”
His wife cooks him big feed
But no good. Bertie gets sick.
Ambulance takes him to
hospital at Berry. There doctor
says, “You all right, but you
have to get your own doctor.”
That night, while Bertie lying
in bed, two men come to window
and look in on him. That Bertie,
he pine away to a shadow. His
face just hollowed in. He die.
Tailpiece
'T'HIS little porcupine Ejenak
whistles when he’s travelling.
He goes along Perhaps he
goes down to river to have a
drink of water. He walks around
beach listening all the time for
anyone walking. If anyone
about, the sand squeaks.
He goes in water, walks under-
neath the water looking for his
feed. He comes out on other
side, walking about.
Comes to bulldogs’ nest, pokes
little claws into nest and bulldogs
come out. He pokes his little
tongue out and licks them up
and gets his tucker.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORMOSA
An American view on For-
mosa (from the “U.S. News and
World Report”) was given here
last week; by way of compari-
son, here follow some typical
British press comments:
“ Yorkshire Post” : “Can noth-
ing be done to end this little
war? How far, for example,
have the Communist attacks on
Quemoy been provoked by
Nationalist raids on the Chinese
mainland? If the Peking Gov-
ernment harp continually on
their determination to wrest
Formosa from Chiang Kai-
shek’s grip, the Nationalists
have followed a coat-trailing
policy which suggests that they
have a special interest in keep-
ing the fight going.
“Their hope must be that they
will eventually involve the
Americans in war with the Com-
munists. Such a hope must fill
the rest of the world with dis-
may. The interests of peace
demand that Formosa should be
neutralised. The Americans
would be wise to concentrate on
this objective and to discourage
further truculence on the part
of the Nationalists.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: If
Chiang deliberately sends large
forces to Quemoy, can the
United States Government stand
by and watch their defeat? It
ought to —or, better, it ought to
exercise persuasion to prevent
him from becoming embroiled.
In the end the Quemoy battle
will not do Chiang or the United
States any good.”
* * *
London “ Spectator” : “Cer-
tainly there is no reason to ex-
pect the sky to brighten rapidly
in Asia, but to despair of a
gradual change in the political
climate there is to despair about
the future of the world. We
must wait. The right attitude
of mind was well enough ex-
pressed in an epigram coined
recently by Mr. F. W. Paish and
published in the correspondence
columns of ‘Time and Tide’:
Faced with the Gordian knot
Untie it if you can, cut it if you
dare.
But if you can do neither, don’t
despair.
The rope will rot.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “Of
all the questions on which the
people of Britain and America
are from time to time divided,
that of Formosa is the most
constant and perhaps the most
profound. For the majority in
Britain the name of Chiang Kai-
shek has almost the same kind
of taint about it as General
Franco’s; the fact that he was
an ally in the war has since
been overshadowed by the cor-
ruption, autocracy and disillu-
sioning nature of his rule.
“For Americans, on the other
hand, Formosa represents not
only the last retreat of a Gov-
ernment on whose support the
United States once lavished mil-
lions of dollars and large slices
of American prestige; it is the
final repository of a dream, of
the idea that China would pro-
vide for America the kind of
cultural and commercial link
with Asia that India did for
Britain.
“Those in Britain who know
the value of their American
alliance can therefore ignore this
background only at their peril;
the recent renewal of active fight-
ing around the Nationalist-held
islands of Quemoy has touched
an open nerve in Washington.”
The same: “Chinese Com-
munist motives and aims in
stepping-up the tempo of this
particular battle at this particu-
lar moment are by no means
clear; indeed some of the pres-
sure this summer has been
deliberately put on by the
Nationalists themselves, and the
Communists have done no more
than retaliate. But there are at
least three obvious motives for
Peking to adopt a more aggres-
sive policy towards the Chiang
Kai-shek regime, and all have
probably played some part in
shaping recent events:
“The very division of opinion
between the two main Western
allies means that to foment the
quarrel with America on the
issue of the Chinese Nationalists
is to drive a wedge into the
weakest joint in the Allied
armor. For, if heavy fighting
once again broke out in the Far
East the Communists might rea-
sonably hope that the United
States would this time have to
engage virtually without allies
and with very little moral sup-
port from world opinion.
“Second, to have the National-
ists sitting in the Quemoy islands,
heavily armed, provocative and
well within the territorial waters
of the mainland, is an affront
to the dignity of the Chinese
People’s Republic, which even a
less quick-tempered State could
not be expected to tolerate ; in
fact, until the recent flare-up
few people in the West probably
realised that the Nationalists
still held any islands so near
the coast. For Peking this is a
threat that must be liquidated.
“The other Communist motive
is the desire to move on to the
next stage after pushing the war
in Indo-China as far as it was
profitable to go for the moment.
The truce at Geneva must have
released considerable stocks of
equipment which would other-
wise have been earmarked for
use in the south. It is argued
in some quarters that the Com-
munist leaders are so keen to get
ahead with their economic plans
for pulling China up by its boot-
straps that they would hardly
welcome a fresh military drain
on their resources. There is,
however, no reason why indus-
trialisation and an assault on a
localised objective like Quemoy
should be incompatible.
“Certainly, nothing has been
left to chance in the intense
propaganda campaign with
which Peking is now trying to
rouse the country against the
Nationalists. The last time, in-
deed the only other time, when
such efforts were made was just
before the Chinese flung their
volunteers into Korea.
“Where will all this lead? No
one who judges the Chinese by
their deeds or by the ruthless
canons of their Communist
faith can doubt that they mean
what they say, when they declare
that they are out to get Formosa
if they can. The grim under-
tones of their determination
could be heard even behind the
delicate clink of teacups during
the Labor delegation’s visit to
Peking. To the Chinese Com-
munist leaders the struggle for
Formosa is a natural and legiti-
mate finale to the civil war. To
assume anything else is to live
in a grey cloud of illusion.”
The same: “Formosa can
almost certainly be held. But
at what cost in terms of Ameri-
can involvment in a wider war
and of an agonising rift in the
Western camp? The next few
weeks may well see a period of
crisis in the Far East as acute
as any in the last five years. But,
if this does come, the sure way
to let it get out of hand will be
to forget that that is exactly the
kind of stake the Chinese are
playing for. Moreover, though
it may be cold comfort, the
Russians do not want a wider
war, either, and their attitude
will act as a powerful brake on
the hotheads in Peking.”
The same: “To call for any-
thing approaching abandonment
of Formosa at this critical point
is patent folly; retreat would
have a calamitous effect on
Asian opinion. At the other
extreme, to support the dispatch
of American warships and air-
craft to Quemoy itself is politi-
cally unthinkable.
“Somewhere between a line
must be found on which there
would be some chance of rally-
ing opinion in the free world as
a whole. The obvious one is
that already cited by Mr. Dulles
to the west of the Pescadores.
The Formosa Straits are, in fact,
reasonably defensible, and this
choice meets the principle of de-
fence without undue provocation
or risk of embroilment.
“Moreover, for the Eisen-
hower Administration itself,
faced with the elections in
November, this in fact repre-
sents the most practical com-
promise ; while it would now be
politically impossible for the Re-
publicans to back down on their
—London "News Chronicle ”
SIN BAD AND THE OLD MAN OF THE CHINA SEA
pledges to Chiang, neither can
they risk having to send all the
boys back to the Far East.
“There remains Quemoy it-
self. For the Nationalists to
withdraw at this stage without
putting up a real fight would be
very damaging to their prestige
and to their own morale. Their
strongest interests demand a
heroic stand, with full —if in-
direct-logistic support from
the Americans. If the National-
ists held Quemoy as Dien Bien
Phu was held they would have
done more for their cause than
anything since the fall of
Peking.”
West German
Recover
Thp rpcnverv of West Ger-
manv since the war and the
pressure of its exports on world
markets ha S » of*.
rnorp remarkable nost-war fea-
nf Fnrnnp
In some Quarters this recovery
T 1 fP q ‘ omwirwr mninp
" f f
Erhard, points out in the fol-
lowing contribution to London
“Financial Times ” the Republic
h“no T ra e ns SpSOT
pponnrnic Hevplonment of the
other major countries of the
other major countries or
“The economic recovery
achieved by the Federal Republic
after an almost total collapse is
indeed impressive,” comments
Erhard
“Between the middle of 1948
-the time of the currency re-
form —and the middle of 1954
our industrial output has ex-
panded by 230 per cent, and ex-
ceeded the pre-war level (taking
1936 as an average) by 77 per
cent. During the same period
the number of employed persons
rose by three million to 16.5 mil-
lion ; in this context it must be
remembered that in 1948, when
‘pent-up inflation’ reigned, there
existed a large number of ficti-
tious contracts of employment.
“Measured by the index of
gross weekly wages and by the
cost-of-living index, the average
real wages of our workers have
increased by 80 per cent, since
mid-1948, thus exceeding the
pre-war (1938) level by some 20
per cent. In 1953 the gross
national product, in terms of
1936 prices, was 49 per cent,
larger than the comparable pre-
war national product.
“The German economy would
never have achieved this pro-
gress if it had not been able to
regain a place in exports. Our
exports rose from practically nil
at the end of the war until they
have surpassed, in volume, the
1936 export level by 56 per cent.
In the early post-war years we
were unable —as a result of the
collapse, of course—to pay with
our exports and services for
even the most essential imports
and depended on gifts and
loans; by contrast, we have
achieved a favorable balance of
trade and payments ever since
1952, although our imports are
now considerably above the pre-
war level (the 1953 import
volume was 51 per cent, larger
than that of 1936).
“Certainly these figures are
most satisfactory, particularly if
one bears in mind the total
paralysis after the war and the
futile period of the controlled
economy in the early post-war
years. But the recovery and the
further development of the West
German economy have not by
any means outpaced the world’s
general economic development
—on the contrary: we still have
to make up some arrears in this
respect.
“Suffice it to point out that
industrial output in the United
States in 1953 was 170 per cent,
higher than in 1938 ; in France
the increase between 1938 and
1953 had been 41 per cent., in
the United Kingdom 39 per
cent., in Belgium 38 per cent.,
while in the Federal Republic
output rose by 30 per cent,
during this period.
“The volume of exports of the
United States practically
doubled in the course of these
15 years, while French exports
showed an increase—by volume
—of 96 per cent., United King-
dom exports increased by 56 per
cent, and those of the Federal
Republic by 53 per cent.
“The Federal Government’s
policy of the market economy
has done away with all the debris
of control and dirigisme which
in the years immediately after
the war had suffocated any per-
sonal initiative in Germany.
This policy saw its objectives less
in issuing regulations than in re-
pealing them, less in administer-
ing than in removing administra-
tive measures, less in directing
than in letting things develop
by themselves.
“Thus,” Erhard continues in
the “Financial Times,” “a new
framework was provided for
economic co-operation among
the people; within this frame-
work the creative forces of the
German people were given free
play. In the process of rebuild-
ing the German economy, U.S.
economic aid was an important
factor in supporting the Ger-
man people’s own efforts.
Thanks to this economic aid it
was possible not only to raise at
once the very low standard of
living a little by imports but also
to improve physical capacity
thereby before our own produc-
tion would have enabled us to
do so. Also, dollar raw materials
and semi-manufactured goods
were made available to us
through U.S. aid and counterpart
investment funds.
“The Federal Government
naturally assisted this process of
recovery and continued eco-
nomic development by an active
policy of economic expansion.
Our economic theory does not
by any means imply an attitude
of laisser-faire —that is, it does
not signify that the State has
merely to act as a watchdog in
relation to economic activity.
On the contrary; it calls for an
active policy of business stimula-
tion and, furthermore, a policy
of facilitating and encouraging
constant economic expansion.
“We are not, however, pre-
pared to sacrifice our financial
stability to this end. We be-
lieve that expansion can be
attained also without such sac-
rifice and, indeed, that a healthy
expansion can only be attained
without this sacrifice. We have,
I think, furnished proof of this.
Compared with the period be-
fore the Korean war (compari-
son between the fourth quarter
of 1953 and the first half of
1950) the level of prices (mea-
sured by the cost-of-living in-
dices) rose in France by 31 per
cent., in the United Kingdom by
23 per cent., in Italy by 20 per
cent., but in the Federal Re-
public by 7 per cent, only-
while our economy considerably
expanded.”
After discussing some of the
reasons for Germany’s surpluses
in its foreign-trade balance,
Erhard goes on to say that “We
ourselves are not happy about
this persistent surplus position
in our foreign-trade accounts.
Certainly up to a point this de-
velopment has been absolutely
healthy since our dollar and
gold reserves have been increased
thereby and our economy
brought nearer to convertibility
in this way. To other countries
this development was also
acceptable in so far as they
earned larger amounts of dollars
and gold than we did on their
balance of payments with the
U.S. (largely as a result of de-
fence and economic aid).
“But in the long run a surplus
on this scale means that—in
terms of volume of goods —we
lose some of the benefit of our
economic expansion. Another
effect is that our trading partners
will naturally oppose our exports
and their further expansion
more strongly.
“We [Germany] wish to main-
tain, and, indeed, increase, our
exports, because we believe that
the world-wide economic rami-
fications, the exchange of goods,
the international division ot
labor cannot go too far. But
the Federal Government is not
prepared in this context to sup-
port its export drive by artificial
incentives to a greater extent
than other countries. On ttie


FORMER SOVIET OFFICIAL
WARNS AGAINST “PEACE
ILLUSIONS”
Igor Bogolepov served the - Soviet
Foreign Office for nearly twenty
years before escaping to the West.
His positions included those of
counsellor of the Foreign Office and
a member of Soviet delegations to
various international conferences.
Igor Bogolepov is well qualified to
deal with the “peaceful co-existence”
tactics of the Communist leaders.
In the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY an article by Bogolepov
warns against present “peace illu-
sions” and shows how they are part
of the Communist conspiracy. This
important article should be carefully
studied by all those desirous of
understanding Communist tactics.
The current issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY also provides other
factual reports and comment essen-
tial for Christian patriots.
Single issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free.
Order from :
The Victorian League of Rights
{Non-party, non-sectarian )
35438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The name Is
g
(D'CdUums
the whisky Is
CaUumS
i *
Soots (Ufusfe,
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.2.
contrary, I have always advo-
cated international agreements
for the restriction of these prac-
tices. With Great Britain, in
particular, we have reached
agreement that such measures
should not be extended and that
certain export incentives, en-
acted by law, should not be
extended beyond 1955.
“It is also wrong to see an
unfair advantage for our export
drive in the fact that we are not
engaged in a rearmament effort.
The Federal Republic pays vast
amounts in occupation costs
and is burdened with payments
for internal indirect war losses ;
these payments are on a very
large scale. In addition, the
Federal Republic has to defray
the expenses of caring for and
integrating millions of refugees,
and, finally, it must foot the
greatest part of the bill of main-
taining the city of West Berlin,
severed as it is from its economic
hinterland.
“As far as the expansion of
imports is concerned —which we
regard as the most important
factor among our export incen-
tives —the Federal Government’s
efforts are clearly directed to this
end. Recently we have consider-
ably simplified our import pro-
cedure and the duty on 750 im-
port items will probably be re-
duced. Furthermore, the Federal
Government continues to pursue
a policy of expanding domestic
demand; in this connection I
should like to refer to the forth-
coming tax-reform. But for rea-
sons of financial stability we
cannot overdo these things. We
must always expect that the un-
spent cash funds held by the
occupation Powers—cash funds
which we had to make available
to them over and above their
current needs —will yet be
brought into circulation. The
pressure on domestic demand
may quickly be replaced by a
corresponding expansion.”
“Also,” Erhard concludes,
“we—as many other countries —
have to show some consideration
for those branches of the
economy (in the main agricul-
ture) which we can expose to
foreign competition only after a
period of intensive production
increase. But the West German
foreign trade situation can be
decisively rectified only if a
more sensible system of inter-
national payments is adopted—
that is, if convertibility of
currencies is brought about.”
United Europe
Paris “Le Figaro” looking
cross-eyed at blandishments
from Moscow:
“It was not so long ago when
the U.S.S.R. professed other
views while she denied France
the right to participate in the
councils of the Great Powers.
“But times have changed.
Today it’s a question of playing
France against Europe by
denouncing German militarism;
this militarism which Moscow, a
few days before the Second
World War, did not hesitate to
choose for an ally, thus unleash-
ing the universal conflict.
“The Western Powers today
want to associate a democratic
Germany with the West, precisely
to check any danger of rebirth
of the militarist spirit beyond the
Rhine. But the enterprise, should
it be crowned with success, would
create a united and fraternal
Europe opposed to Soviet
imperialism. Moscow doesn’t
want that at any price.”
U.S. Anti-Communist
Laws
It remains to be seen how
America’s outlawing of the
Communist party will work out;
some indication of the scope of
the legislation is given in the
following “U.S. News and
World Report” analysis of its
effects: —
“Life for a Communist in the
United States is going to be-
come more difficult and more
dangerous, as a result of new
laws passed by Congress. The
Communist now finds himself
with no legal political party. It
has been outlawed. His attempts
to control labor unions face
new stumbling-blocks. He risks
death if he becomes a spy and
prison for sabotage.
“It’s going to be harder for
a Communist to hide —and when
he’s caught he may lose his U.S.
citizenship. He can be made to
talk or go to jail. A Communist
must register with Federal
authorities.
“With all these new laws
coming suddenly into force,
many people have coma to ex-
pect sudden and dramatic results
—a quick and sweeping round-
up of Communists throughout
the country. That, however, is
not to happen.
“Although the Communist
party has been outlawed, it still
is no crime simply to be a mem-
ber. Everyone who joined is
not to be herded into jail. Nor
are a lot of American-born
Communists going to be de-
ported. And the Communist
newspaper, the ‘Daily Worker,’
probably will not stop publica-
tion.
“What will happen to Com-
munists is simply this: It’s
going to be harder for a Com-
munist to operate, from now on,
and the penalty will be greater
if he is caught conspiring
against the U.S.
“Death penalties are now
provided for spies, even in time
of peace. Formerly only war-
time spying resulted in capital
punishment. The Rosenbergs
could not have been executed if
their spying had not been done
in time of war. The new law,
moreover, eliminates the old 10-
year statute of limitations and
makes it possible to prosecute a
spy any time he is discovered,
“For many other offences
likely to be committed by Com-
munists, the statute of limita-
tions has been extended from
three years to five. This not
only gives the Government more
time tQ apprehend a criminal
but permits officials to hold up
his arrest if they are not yet
ready to disclose the identity of
their informer.
“Citizenship can be taken
away from a Communist con-
victed of advocating the over-
throw of the U.S. Government
by force and violence. This can
be done even if the Communist
was born in the U.S.
“Can he be deported, then, as
an undesirable alien? Theoreti-
cally, yes. Actually, however, de-
portations of native-born Com-
munists are not contemplated be-
cause it is not likely that any
other country would agree to
take them.
“There are many other penal-
ties resulting from loss of citizen-
ship. A man who is expatriated
becomes, in effect, an alien. Like
all aliens, he must register, be
fingerprinted and keep the Gov-
ernment advised of his where-
abouts. He can’t get a passport
to travel abroad. Many profes-
sions are limited by State laws
to citizens, so he would be
barred. He cannot vote, run for
office or hold most public jobs.
“Communists who flee are
going to have more trouble hid-
ing, because the penalties for
harboring a fugitive have been
increased by the new laws. When
two Communist leaders fled re-
cently the heaviest punishment
that could be given four persons
accused of harboring them was
only six months in prison. Now
harboring a fugitive can bring
up to five years in prison.
“If a Communist jumps bail
he now not only forfeits his bail-
money but also can be tried for
jumping bail, which is made a
separate crime.
“Communists who won’t talk
when called to testify before a
congressional committee, a
grand jury or a court can now
be compelled to talk or risk
prison. This can be accomp-
lished, under the new laws, by
granting a reluctant witness im-
munity from prosecution. With
this immunity he no longer can
incriminate himself, so has no
legal right to keep silent, and
can be punished if he does.
“Department of Justice
officials consider this immunity
procedure one of their strongest
new weapons. The best source
of information about Com-
munist conspiracies is one of the
conspirators. If one of a ring
can be induced to talk the rest
of the ring may be convicted.
“Pensions, under the new
laws, also are denied to Federal
employees convicted of crimes
involving their official positions
or disloyalty to the U.S. This
provision hits directly at Alger
Hiss, former State Department
official who was convicted of
perjury in denying that he
passed information to the
Soviets. Hiss will soon be eligible
for parole—and without this law
would draw a Federal retirement
pension.
“Saboteurs face new and
tighter laws, brought up to date
to include sabotage by means of
radioactive, biological or chemi-
cal agents. Sabotage laws now
apply in times of ‘national
emergency’ as well as in times
of war.
“Printing equipment used by
Communists must now be regis-
tered and its location disclosed.
This requirement was passed
after investigations by congres-
sional committees revealed
secret, underground printing
facilities.
“Red-led labor unions are hit
by one of the major new anti-
communist measures. Now,
when any labor union is found
to have been infiltrated by Com-
munists, it can be barred from
using the National Labor Rela-
tions Board to obtain a bargain-
ing election. Twenty per cent,
of the workers in a shop can
force an immediate election to
oust the infiltrated union and
select a new one.
“The effect of this is to enable
loyal workers to get rid of the
Communist leaders who have
taken over their union. The
possibilities of sabotage in de-
fence industries are greatly
reduced.
“General outlawing of the
Communist party, while getting
the most public attention, is
likely to turn out to have little
immediate effect. How this law
may work in practice is still in
doubt. It was whipped up
hastily without Administration
backing in the closing days of
the session.
“The law declares that the so-
called Communist party is no
real political party at all, but ‘an
instrumentality of a conspiracy
to overthrow the Government of
the United States.’ It takes away
the party’s legal rights. So the
party can’t nominate candidates
for Congress. But no avowed
Communists have been elected
to Congress in recent years, any-
way. Even if the party can’t
own property, the ‘Daily
Worker,’ although an organ of
the party, has separate owner-
ship.
“All Communist-party mem-
bers, under the new law, are
made subject to the Internal
Security Act of 1950 and re-
quired to register their names
with the Federal Government.
However, the Communist party
already has ben declared a ‘Com-
munist-action’ group under the
Internal Security Act and
ordered to register the names
of its members.
‘*The party still is fighting this
order in court, and no names
have yet been registered. Com-
munist leaders have served
notice that they will make a
similar court fight against the
new law.
“A proposal to make it a
crime merely to belong to the
Communist party was removed
from the new law because then
compelling a Communist to
register would in effect be forc-
ing him to confess to a crime—
and that would be unconstitu-
tional/
“So it still must be proved
tjiat a member ‘knowingly’ con-
tributed to the party’s illegal
aims before he can be jailed.
Such persons already are being
prosecuted under the Smith Act
of 1940, with 81 convictions
obtained.
“Adding up the effects of all
the new anti-Communist laws,
however, Justice Department
officials say they provide im-
portant new weapons with which
to fight Communism. The indi-
vidual Communist is in for real
trouble.”
Soviet Aid to China
Quoting, as the source of its
clues, “Planovoye Khogyaistvo,”
organ of the Soviet Union’s State
planning committee, “New York
Times” assesses the extent of
Soviet economic priming to Red
China for 1953-59:
“These clues indicate that dur-
ing this six-year period the Soviet
Union will make available to the
Communist Chinese equipment
for the following production
capacities: steel 4,400,000 metric
tons; pig-iron 4,600,000 metric
tons; coal 25,000,000 metric
tons ; electric power 6750 million
kilowatts,
“In addition, the Soviet
Union is scheduled to deliver
equipment for oil, machinery,
non-ferrous metal and other
heavy industrial production.
“According to the planning
report, Soviet deliveries of
machinery to equip 141 new and
reconstructed heavy industrial
plants from 1953 to 1959 will
permit Communist Chinese pro-
duction to exceed that of 1952 by
the following rates: pig-iron and
steel, three times; coal, 60 per
cent.; electric power, 100 per
cent.
“They will also permit the
output of metal-cutting machine-
tools to be increased by 3.5 times
the 1952 level and mining
machinery production to be
doubled,”
Wool Prices
Commenting editorially on the
future of wool-prices, London
“Financial Times” is by no
means pessimistic :
“Provided that the wool-textile
trade in Britain and Europe
remains healthy there is reason
to regard the future of wool-
prices as likely to be fairly
stable.
“The fundamental considera-
tion is that there is no prospec-
tive surplus of wool during the
current season of an order likely
to depress the market. A major
factor is that this year the former
large surplus in South America
appears to have been dispersed
and existing stocks are confined
to the British strategic stock and
the stock of the U.S. Commodity
Credit Corporation.
“It is true that increases are
expected in the wool-clips of the
main producing countries. But
allowing for a suggested carry-
over at the end of this season
of 211 million pounds (clean),
the Commonwealth Economic
Committee figures indicate that
the quantity available for con-
sumption should be about 2572
million pounds, which does not
greatly exceed the comparable
figure of 2539 million pounds
last season.
“Consumption last season is
estimated at 2470 million pounds
and in the earlier part of this
year it was running at an annual
rate of 8 per cent, below the 1953
level. Now there are signs that
it is improving. It may be
reasonably expected that the
rather larger available supplies
can be absorbed; the question
is at what prices.
“Some decline from last
season’s levels was natural, and
it has come at the beginning of
the season. It would be unwise
to regard the present strength of
the London market as an indi-
cator for next year’s price-levels,
but it may demonstrate that the
initial falls this season have
established a new acceptable
trading level for the months
immediately ahead.”
Various Voices
Economist Colin Clark : “We
[Great Britain] have overloaded
ourselves with an enormous
burden of social service. The
burden of taxation has risen to
40 per cent, of the entire national
production. I believe the
maximum level of taxation that
any country is able to carry on
for any period (except in war-
time) is more like 25 per cent.”
M. George Laffargue: “France
is like a pretty woman who, if
you insist too much on her
fidelity, deceives you, but if you
give credence to her good faith
will end-up by loving you.”
Admiral Radford, chairman,
U.S. Joint Chiefs-of-Staff: “The
basic decision has been taken
[by America] ‘to depend
primarily upon a great capacity
to retaliate, instantly, by means
and at places of our own choos-
ing.’ It was enunciated by
Secretary of State Dulles in
January of this year. This policy
still stands. It is not a policy
that necessarily commits us to
instant massive retaliation
against all forms of aggression.
This is far from being the case.
It is the policy of having a per-
suasive power to help preserve
peace.”
Chinese Minister of Public
Security, Lo Jui-ching: “The
men for whom we have post-
poned execution are also a size-
able source of manpower from
the economic point of view. We
are giving them a chance to
reform themselves. At the same
time, they will have a definite
effect upon certain State produc-
tion enterprises.” v


VITREOUS
Q/tWJ
COMPRESSED
INSULATION
*****
CL**
JT>
CaHJnJrA r>fl
* ;
.... 1
/ . ss
Continuous
Burning
Constant
Hot Water for
Kitchen * Bathroom • Laundry
CcUimichacL 4<D
The extra large roasting oven of the
Carmichael "400” is vitreous ena-
melled inside and out, thereby ensuring
faster cooking and longer life. Com-
pressed insulation takes up less space
allowing far more cooking area with
larger ovens, larger hotplate.
No matter when you decide to cook,
the Carmichael *'4oo'’ is always ready
for use and supplies enough hot water
for all household needs. The sparkling
titanium enamel finish ensures easy
cleaning . . . adds beauty to any
kitchen.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . ... it’s a Carmichael
re-
write today for
illustrated literature to:
Ca/wtichaeL
S2o'
WatL Ran P and
water Heater with Tnw
Thermostat Control T
This magnificent stove al-
lows you a complete ran#©
stawtlv° kl +»f tem Peratures in-
* the moment you
decide to cook.
Perfect Automatic cooking
with two extra large fullv
enamelled ovens
and two super size hotplates,
range^na 8 St< T ed Within the
Jrf i d onl ? a minimum
s , required to main-
mio «■ COokln , s temperature,
nmo» ,ins: pooler kitchens and
amazing fuel economy
Carmichael “520” | s t rulv
w T Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street,
Auburn: W. T. Carmichael, Brisbane,
or Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Jas. Balfour Pty. Ltd., Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT MERVYN GIBBS late of
44 Cassia Street Dee Why N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH JOYCE GIBBS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4537
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by sth February 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HERON ROBERTSON PARKHILL ROFE
& MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 12 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NEILSON STANLEY HILLIER for-
merly of Granville. —TAKE NOTICE that
MYRTLE IVY HILLIER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3413 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking the Court to exercise its dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 4th November
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from VINCENT E.
MADDEN, Solicitor, of 104 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS. Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD CLARENCE DUNN late of
No. 10 Telarah Street Telarah near Mait-
land—TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN
MERLE DUNN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 8787 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years (3) and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 14th Janu-
ary 1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from HENRY T.
SKILTON & SKILTON. Solicitors, of 444
High Street, Maitland, or their Sydney
agents, LAURENCE & LAURENCE, Soli-
citors, of 44 Martin Place, Sydney.
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—In Divorce.
TO ARNOLD KEATING DAVIES formerly
of Bassendean W.A.-TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DOROTHY LAURA DAVIES
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of We s te ™,
tralia for Divorce on the ground of deser-
tion If you desire to defend such pro
ceedings you must withinSO clear daj
after the date of this publication file in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a Statement of your Defence In ae
fault of your so doing the case may pro
ceed and the Court will pronounce judg
ment and make orders agams ■
DATED this 28th day of September, 1904.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
LA VAN & WALSH. 29 Barrack Street,
Perth, Western Australia, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff. _
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
WALTER ANTHONY EDLIS late o
Iney—TAKE NOTICE that JOY LOB
INK ELLIS has filed a D etltlc ®L f °f
orce No. 2109 of 1958 on grounds d
ertion without just cause or excuse
three years and upwards '
defend you may enter an
the Divorce Registry Supreme
Iney on or before the 14th day J
inary 1955. A copy of the Petit o
ySo’fcmW"*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Iris and Its
Culture by Jean Stevens.—s 923.
Present whereabouts of Albert
l resent whereabouts or Aioe
Dornngton (“Alba Donon”), old-
time RiiTTF-rrN writer 5915
time bulletin writer. :mo.
Copies of books and periodicals
containing information about the
artist Will Dyson.—s92o.
Copy of book or booklet by Hosea,
a fully-ordained native Methodist
minister on the traditional life of
New Ireland, published in 1932 by
the Methodist Overseas Mission. —
5919.
Conies of books bv the Durack
copies or oooks oy me a v
sisters on the Kimberleys ( . .).
. , „„, TO
Copies of magazines and news-
Papers containing articles relating to
the life and writings of Harry Moram
(“The Breaker ). (Reply direct to
F. J. Gorton, Potchefstroom Estate,
80x46, Post Office, Mukono, Uganda,
British East Africa. )
Words of poem called ‘Lasca.
5925.
0
Does Anybody Know !
Name of serial by Frank Reid
(“Bill Bowyang”) printed in the old
“Queenslander” (now defunct), and
whether it was ever published in book-
form.—s9l7.
_,. c ,
information oought
At what age are thoroughbred
horses mouthed and the method?
Mouthing of young thoroughbred
horses usually takes nlace when thev
norses usually raxes piace wnen iney
are first being educated and about 18
months of age. There is no standard
method of mouthing, and the proce-
dure varies depending upon the likes
and dislikes of the person doing the
job. One of the methods that is
commonly used, however, is to attach
the Mullen mouth-bradoon to a light
bridle and fit this to the youngster
who is being educated. Light reins
are fitted from the rings of the bit to
the fixed surcingle at a light, even
tension This is done for an hour or
sq Qn ’ each of three success j ve days
and by the end of this time the horse
is usually accustome d to the feel ’of
tbg b - t j n y s mou th.
« * * *
Conditions of the international
competition for an Olympic hymn?
x mposs ible to print full details
here. Copies of the rules may be
obtained from the Organising Com-
mittee of the Olympic Games, Post-
office Building, Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. Some of the con-
ditions follow: The contest is open
to composers of all nationalities, and
the chosen “hymn” will probably be
performed publicly at the 1956
Olympic Games. A full orchestral
to M. Otto Mayer, Chancellor of P the
International Olympic Committee,
Mon Repos, Lausanne, Switzerland, to
arrive not later than Dec. 20, 1954.
A motto or pseudonym must be pre-
fixed to the covering of the score,
and also affixed to a sealed envelope
attached to the score containing
competitor s name and address, cer-
f,fi 31 attesting nationally a brief
tincate attesting nationality, a oner
autobiography and a photo. The
composition must be strictly original
and previously unpublished. Xhe time
duration of the performance must
extend to 3mm. at least but not ex-
c®ed 4p * in -„ Judging will take place
f*^ lonte Carl ° m March or April,
. _ . , , , ...
, What IS ?. Guignol, and how did
the term originate ?
Originally a French puppet-show,
the equivalent of the English Punch
and Judy. It was developed from
the Italian pupazzi by Laurent Mourg-
net, who in 1795 established a theatre
in Lyons, which was kept up for
many years by his descendants. The
name is said to be derived from
Chignol, a silk-weaver of Lyons,
where, as in Paris, the performance
was one of the most popular street-
shows. The term is now applied to
stage performances of short plays of
a sensational character.
What were the circumstances of the
Liberator frauds .
The Liberator Building Society,
formed in 1868 on the Starr-Bowkett
system to finance the building or
homes, became, under the manage-
ment of Jabez Balfour, purely an
investing company, with no special
relation to building. Its liabilities,
which amounted at the time of the
crash, in 1892, to over £8,000,000,
were incurred in supporting otner
more or less shady and shaky busi-
nesses in which the directors were
interested —among them the London
and General Bank, the failure of
which in the same year precipitated
the crisis. There was a deficiency ot
over £5,000,000. Balfour fled to South
America, was extradited and sen-
tenced to 14 years’ imprisonment.
Brief Answers
1.D.: As bricks are partly porous
it is very difficult to extract a solidly-
set matter like grease below the sur-
face. Scrub well with hot soapy
water containing cloudy ammonia
and wipe up as dry as possible; or
make a soft paste of petrol and fine
clay, smear over the spots, and brush
off when dry C.J.C.: Wash well in
hot soapy water and, when dry,
scrape down any rough parts with a
fine sharp knife. Rub smooth with
fine sandpaper, repeat with a fine
emery-paper; polish with fine emery
powder in linseed-oil. Finish by
polishing with a beeswax floor-polish,
followed tty brisk rubbing with a
woollen cloth. The high gloss on
commercially prepared horns is ob-
tained on a power polisher
C. : Joseph Louis O’Dwyer was
born at Melbourne in 1912, and went
to Queensland at an early age where
he was educated, finally graduating
in Arts at Brisbane University. He was
a teacher and later joined the Naval
Dept, on the medical side. Has pub-
lished two books of verse, Poems
(Melbourne, 1941) and The Turning
Year (Melbourne, 1944) W.W.S.:
Require a fuller description before we
could give an opinion... .F.R.; The
Australian agent for Waterford Glass
is Peter Marich and Co., 360 Kent-
street, Sydney... .H.D.: Miller’s
Sporting Annual, obtainable from
The Herald and Weekly Times, 74
Flinders-street, Melbourne.... L.H.:
Tom Blower swam the North Chan-
nel of the Irish Sea on July 26, 1947.
He covered the distance, approxi-
mately 33 miles, in 15hrs. 26sec. He
was the first to achieve this feat
R.S.K.: Leicester Galleries, Leicester-
square, W.C.2; Fine Arts Society,
148 Bond-street, W.l; Mayon Gal-
lery, 14 Brook-street, W.l; Redfern
Gallery, 20 Cork-street, W.l; Foyle
Art Gallery, Trefoile House, Charing
Cross-road, W.C.2 —all London....
R.C.H.: Among books the centenary
of the publication of which occurs
next year (1955) are Kingsley’s West-
ward Ho I, Longfellow’s Hiawatha,
Tennyson’s Maud, Thackeray’s The
Newcomes, Trollope’s The Warden
and Walt Whitman’s Leaves of Grass.
....E.S.G.: “Menander” is the
nom-de-plume of Charles Morgan,
“Sagittarius” of Mrs. Hugh Miller.
....T.P.; The size most favored for
novels is Crown Bvo., ranging from
Large Crown Bvo. (8 by 5£ ins.) to
Small Crown Bvo. (7 by 4| in 5.)....
D. : Hereward, 1513 tons, was
stranded during easterly gale on
Maroubra Beach (near Sydney), on
May 6, 1898.. No lives were lost. She
was refloated later, but while being
towed away was driven by a southerly
squall on to the rocks, where she
broke up... .S.L.: Thermopylae, 948
tons, Thompson’s Aberdeen White
Star famous clipper-ship, built in
1868, and generally considered the
fastest sailing-ship ever built, made
a number of voyages to Australia
and thence to China until 1890, when
she was sold to British Columbia.
In 1895 she was bought by the Portu-
guese for a training-ship in the
Tagus, until she was towed to sea and
honorably sunk by gunfire in 1907.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability, is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
“Smiler” (writer of paragraph
regarding W. G. Henderson): Please
send us your full postal address....
Queer thing, there’s an
epidemic of policemen saved by
crooks. And none of them rings
true.. • .W.J.: Description of canni-
bals’ feast put us off our counter-
lunch J.McK.: Twelve-thousand
miles off our beat P.T.: It was a
relief to get rid of the remittance-
man. .. .E.F.: Drop the obsolete and
use current English and you might
be all right A.L.: Not pulling up
at that wayback shanty H.W.: No
taste for the kind of thing that must
be prefaced with apologies
R.M.C.: Began with a misquotation
and ended in a fog H.E.: You
are more interested in the tree than
the persons underneath it G.W.:
Too much starch in the dialogue
p.S.: Legacy-that-came-too-late yarn
arrives too often R. 8.: Might
have found a market in the days ot
the yellowbacks L.S.: Get away
from that artificial form, and say the
good stuff you have to say without
frills A.F.: Well, you have the
honor of being the only one to use
both sides of the paper this week.
K.B.: Like our poetic children
a trifle more robust.. ..N.P.D:
Happy to take your word for it that
with the ghosts of drovers “the
West does sumptuously teem”
B.B.: Weren’t gripped by your
octopus F.U.M.: Office-cleaner
empties out three or four long-lost
brothers every week D.McN.:
You have a queer notion of what
constitutes a story A.L.M.: Your
Pegasus must be moulting N. 8.:
Returning the faithful hound to his
kennel F.McL.: Has at least one
of the attributes of good verse —
sincerity:
Accused be these damned mosquitoes:
Why were made such horrible things,
That bite and sting and fly through
windows,
And make terrible noises with their
wings?
J.D.: Reads like an interchange
of solicitors’ letters M.C.: Judging
by the number of flappers who are
pulled ashore in time the sharks must
be having a hungry spin H. 8.: It
didn’t live up to the opening stanza:
Alone she stands on Wynyard Station,
O lovely girl from Ironbark.
The gent, who accosts her is no relation,
Only a stranger out for a lark.
C.K.: Reads like an abridgment
of Uncle Tom’s Cabin with a back-o’-
Bourke setting A.W.: Time that
bushfire burned itself out S.D.:
Who told you we printed fairy-
stories? P. 8.: Seeing you’re a
fatalist its rejection will not disturb
you K.R.: Little more than an
inventory of a flapper’s wardrobe....
H.S.C.: Romance between shoplifter
and store detective was more than we
could swallow A.E.: At least you
found a new rhyme:
I am weary of the paraphernalia
Used by the modern poets of Australia.
Why is it that they all hate rhyme?
The result being that their poems don’t
chime.
RJ.R.: Don’t yearn for poems
with lines like “By the fell blast of
love’s despairing moan” H.J.8.:
Keep away from poker-machines if
that’s how they make you feel....
P.U.: You’ll have to do a great deal
better than that M.H.: There
never was, and never will be, a
detective like that... .R.P.C.: Strange
how many would-be contributors to
these pages have used the idea of
the surgeon who has to operate on
the lady who jilted him....J.5.:
Your shearer’s cook is too reminiscent
of the operator in Gilbert’s Nancy
brie.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Youth
That New York judge (B. 22/9/’54)
who said “It is too late to save this genera-
tion, but there is still time to save the
next,” was merely invoking a basic
general law of sociology which provides
that each generation, as it reaches middle-
age, tends to correct in its children the
faults of its own upbringing.
Thus a parent who had a strict upbring-
ing tends to be too easy with his own
children, but they, on attaining parent-
hood and realising the defects of their
own training, will take care to correct
their own children.
There are plenty of exceptions, but it
remains a very general rule. Unfor-
tunately its application has been ham-
pered latterly by the masses of misguided
advice and criticism directed at parents
by some psychologists, justices and
others, and by the publicity given to
crime, particularly juvenile. Parents these
days are utterly bemused and tend to
throw in their hands.
Present-day youth is not so different
from the youth of the beginning of the
century. If anything, the latter was
rougher and tougher. There were
“pushes” in plenty, and tough mobs
many of them were. “Pinching” was a
normal occupation with many. Sex pre-
cocity was common. “Rocking” the
teacher and fights between teacher and
pupils occurred frequently. But that was
as far as the delinquent youth of the
period went. There was practically no
major crime.
Why the difference? The only ex-
planations offering are: There were no
psychologists, no sloppy sentimentalists,
little publicity of juvenile crime and a
good measure of corporal punishment.
Flogging teachers were fairly common,
maybe a bit too common, and “me old
man will gimme a hiding” was legitimate
excuse for non-participation in irregular
ploys. “Old men” were good at adminis-
tering hidings in those days, so, although
the kids themselves were tough enough,
their “delinquencies” were short-circuited
to a great extent.
The N.Y. judge’s solution is regarded
as hopeless. Nothing useful on sex or
marital relations or any kindred subject
can be taught effectively in classes. Such
indoctrination must be to individuals or
very small groups, and is best when
informal and casual. As for parental
responsibility, there has already been too
much advising, lecturing and criticising of
parents—E. M. Pyric (Q.).
Telegraphy
The Morse-key is on the way out des-
pite attempts by many old “brass-
pounders” like “Sparks” (B. 15/9/’54)
and “V.J.H.” (B. 15/9/’54) to boost its
rapidly dwindling advantages.
Growth in telecommunications, par-
ticularly in the last decade, has greatly
reduced the role of Morse. In the
P.M.G. Department the teleprinter has
taken over, while in the field of inter-
national communications radio-telephone
and pulse-transmissions are here to stay.
It does not seem many years ago when
most civil aircraft carried a radio-
operator whose sole duty was to send
position-reports, etc., in Morse, Today
it is all done by the skipper (or second
dickie) using R/T to the aeradio-stations.
Even the overseas airliners are now
experimenting with long-range R/T
which, if successful, will make it
unnecessary for them to carry a radio-
operator across the Atlantic and Pacific.
Perhaps the greatest feat of airman-
ship and air-navigation in recent years
was the air-race between Britain and New
Zealand late last year. None of the
R.A.A.F. Canberras even carried a
Morse-key. All their communications
were on R/T in the very high frequencies
“I like a bit of color”
which had a range of 300-odd miles,
complete with D/F and homing facilities.
Training radio-operators to send and
receive good Morse is an expensive busi-
ness, and unless the trainee has the
natural aptitude for it the instructor has
a tough battle. Telecommunication-
engineers genuinely believe today that
training men to send and receive code is
a waste of time, as its use is becoming
more limited every year.
Even though most of the weather-
reports to ships at sea are on Morse to a
prearranged meteorological code, many
skippers on the Australian run prefer to
listen to the detailed weather informa-
tion given by the A.B.C. after the mid-
day news bulletin.
In the general field of radio-communi-
cations R/T is much quicker and simpler,
especially if repeats are necessary. Of
course Morse will get through when the
fading is bad and the static heavy, but
with high power and beam-antennae
used by most shore stations, these sig-
nals are rare today. Even WWV, the
American time- and frequency-standard
station from Washington, has introduced
R/T into its round-the-clock transmis-
sions.
Listen on all the amateur radio-bands.
In pre-war years it was nearly all Morse,
but today it’s nearly all R/T, especially
on the v.h.f. bands and on the inter-
national bands of 10, 15 and 20 metres.
I have only recently completed 20
years on the amateur radio-bands, and
during those two decades have “pounded
brass” with the rest of them and could
take my 30 w.p.m. through fading and
static. But now, like the airmen, I’ve
gone over to R/T. It’s more personal,
efficient and gets more done in a shorter
time. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
The Antarctic
Training programmes, minerals and
admittedly valuable scientific work not-
withstanding (B. 15/9/’54), meteorology
is the most important aspect of Australia’s
work in the Antarctic, simply because the
Australian National Antarctic Research
Expedition wouldn’t exist without it.
I can’t accept the concentration on
, . .
minerals as a prime reason for being in
the Antarctic. Find them, certainly, but
mine them? There s no sense in it. I
recently heard a lecture in Perth, given by
the Director of the Antarctic Division,
Mr. P. G. Law, in which he said that to
mine the Antarctic Continent would
entail meltmg-off the ice-cap, a process
f, the level of the ocean
200 ft. That s 200 vertical feet. How
much land would be left sticking up for
what was left of the worlds population to
five on. London, New York, Sydney and
a thousand other big cities, not to men-
fion whole countries and even continents,
would all go under water.
There’s no need to look further than
meteorology for justification of Antarctic
venturing. Already, from the knowledge
gained from the Heard and Macquarie
expeditions, southern Australian fore-
casting is more accurate. As the Maw-
son data is assembled over a period of
years that forecasting will become even
more accurate, with consequent benefit
to farmers and, through them, the
nad °u-
This whole question of Antarctic
ownership is based on outdated and un-
wise precepts. Here is a vast and com-
pletely untamed, untapped continent,
largely unknown. Isn’t it rather illogical
of Australia to expect to hold a third of
it? If we don’t smarten-up we’ll be lucky
to hold our own continent, let alone
another area almost as big.
Isn’t it, then, an opportunity at last
for some kind of international owner-
ship, without national borderlines and
national jealousies? If “J.R.8.” is right
and the Antarctic can be mined, a federa-
tion of nations would do the job far
better in all respects—C. J. (W.A.).
Rebel Dramatists?
Despite “Kanimbla’s” doubts (B.
15/9/’54), Dame Sybil Thorndike is right
—to produce a great playwright Australia
does need a rebel—“somebody who sin-
cerely wants to rebel against the comfort-
able present-day living, the 40-hour week,
and people’s self-satisfaction.”
“K.” apparently considers as rebels
only those who wish to turn social insti-
tutions upside-down. No such senseless
revolt is implied in Dame Sybil’s
remarks; rather is it a rebelling against
certain bad trends in our life and culture
that must be eradicated or negated.
In actual fact most great poetry and
dramatic writing has been rebellious-
criticism of nature, perhaps, or some
undesirable aspect of life ; and, less so, of
political and social institutions.
Matthew Arnold said poetry is “a
criticism of life.” A later English
poet, Stephen Spender, now in Aus-
tralia, in his Life and the Poet (1942),
says: “It is also true in a sense to say that
all great literature has a revolutionary
impulse. Taken as a whole, the poetic is
in every generation a criticism of that
generation’s fulfilment in its way of
living, in its faith and institutions, of the
universal qualities of life.” He immedi-
ately adds, however, that this “needs a
good deal of qualifying.”
Yet, despite the qualifying, Spender’s
statements are fundamentally true.
Nearly all literature is at heart critical —
so tyrants like Hitler burned books.
Shakspeare certainly was politically
orthodox —he accepted kingship, aris-
tocracy, the order of the feudal world;
he despised the mob. But he was still a
rebel —against nature, against the condi-
tions of life itself.
Similarly Moliere. He did not protest
against the state of society or, as did
Shakspeare, against the nature of the
world. But he did protest against hypo-
crisy, insincerity, over-refinement, affec-
tation, humbug.
Most poets were rebels. Milton in his
Areopagitica (1644) denounced Parlia-
ment for its licensing and censorship of
press criticism: to him a blatant attack
on English liberty. He also pressed for
reform of the national system of educa-
tion, especially of the universities, and
demanded divorce-reform. (Even if
some, like Milton, rebelled in prose apart
from their poetic masterpieces, an echo
of their rebellious spirit is heard in their
poetry.)
Byron, the “noble rebel,” with cynical
and flippant speech, quarrelled with
orthodoxy. He is accepted as the herald
and champion of revolt. (Yet he’s always
praised for his sincerity.) In Don Juan,
in which he set himself to depict life as
a whole, he disclosed his criticism of life
and of philosophy.
Finally, there’s Shelley—“ All the
authors of revolutions in ideas are neces-
sarily poets [Poets] are the institutors
of laws and the founders of civil society,
and the inventors of the arts of life, and
the teachers”. . . To be all that they
must be rebels. —K. R. (N.S.W-)-
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 299
Across
I—Seeing1—Seeing that it’s in favor of an
equal quantity. (9)
6 —A good round boy swallows the
earth goddess for a hobgoblin. (5)
9 —Three-quarters of a deadly sin
ran away to marry like unopened
mail. (9)
10—Butt into a semicircle with the
French artist. (5)
12 — This is very black in Kentucky.
(4)
13 — A century, but not a hundred
years, old —which is reason
enough to snivel. (4)
14— Theda turns into an urchin with
a Moabite city sailor of Sinbad’s
race almost. (4)
15 — Every poem in classic initials. (4)
20 — The joker and that woman accom-
panying the Queen dry up. (6)
21— Topping panorama—but no alter-
native is allowed. (6)
23 — Spinach or pain? (6)
24 — Result disturbed the camp-
hawker from Ulster. (6)
26 —One’s broken beak like an incom-
plete compass. (4)
28 — Telephoned for a rising firemen’s
footing. (4)
29 — German confederacy food ob-
tained with pennies. (4)
30 — Lout mixed a balsam. (4)
33 —Take possession of the ruler who
is the ninth namesake of an
English queen? (5)
35 —Slanderer who sinks his teeth into
a footballer? (9)
36 — Operatic heroine goes to the north
to find the saint who established
the Northumbrian church. (5)
37 — Study a way of standing a girl.
(9)
Down
1 — Femmes. (11)
2 New governments may be ex-
pected from such top behavior.
(11)
3 A compound mariner. (4)
4 What parts of the footwear are
needed for supper. (6)
5 Butler’s work and rub a dish the
wrong way. (8)
6 Pearl for only a dollar. (4)
7 Dash over an Indian city. (3)
8 — Consent or agreement with a
Victorian town. (3)
11 —Solution of potash and soda in
water introduces a learner to you.
(3)
16 — 7-down and 10-across on haber-
dashery. (5-6)
17 — Equipment for shooting coppers
on the lake, but all in the spirit of
friendship. (11)
18 — The punishers introduce them-
selves in a New Guinea town. (5)
19 — 111-defined number with a quaking
fever. (5)
22 —Although batry-like, he and I are
separated by some friction be-
tween one century and another.
(8)
25—A current in a popular sedative
mixed by an Inca. (6)
27 —Summer in France. (3)
31 — Part of 10, all of ten, and part
of ten quadrupeds. (4>
32 — Help a bookrpaking business. (4)
33 — Influential Moslem is against
taking this month off. (3)
34 Penniless mute might agree with
it. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 298


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc^
The attachment illus-
trated is the
“ FARMERS .
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you;
NB.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St, Sydney.
BW 4261. victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO..
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
W/
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM-
tv
isto
515*"-
BO***
4
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
‘dhi-MOi-
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly tuppllad—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE! *.PO ** »«•
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • ®.PX>. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
* add CAB. PERTH.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GARAZCOS."
ZEBUS
AN Australian, F. H. Finch,
who manages a property for
the Liebig Meat Extract Co. in
Argentina, is convinced that the
development of our major cattle-
country in the North is bound
up, to a degree, with the use
of Zebu blood. He told
The Bulletin as much dur-
ing a recent visit, and has sup-
ported the view with statistics
on this page. He has sent over
some more information which
seems well worth passing on: the
more as Australian experience
with the breed and its hybrids, as
yet, has been limited.
Don Federico (as he is called
in an article in the “Plate River
Review,” one of the sources for
this article) think's Zebu and
Zebu-cross are the only cattle for
certain climatic conditions.
Hence the selection of material
is a bit one-sided —or, if you like,
propagandist. But the opinion is
based on practical experience of
a respectable range. In offering
it to Australian cattlemen who
may be in a geographical posi-
tion to profit from it, Finch has
no personal axe to grind. Some
other opinions on the same
subject are not so obviously dis-
interested. A southern breeder,
for instance, may quite sincerely
believe that the future of the
herds in the North depends on
a progressive up-grading by bulls
of the British breed he favors.
He may be right. And, in any
case, the two views are not neces-
sarily irreconcilable. But, with-
out taking sides, it does seem
that the more extreme views of
admirers of the British breeds
under ail conditions have had a
somewhat disproportionate influ-
ence and very fair publicity over
the past few years. Finch’s views
may do something to correct the
balance.
But first the man himself. He
left the Hunter River (N.S.W.)
district in 1903, and spent the
next five years farming near
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.). He went to
South America in 1908, and for
many years has been managing
Estancia Garruchos, Corrientes
province (latitude 28 degrees
south), in the narrow strip of
territory sandwiched between
Paraguay and Brazil. There he
runs about 34,000-head of cattle.
He enlisted in the British Army
in War I, and five of his children
joined-up in War 11.
Earlier (B. 8/9/’54) Finch
wrote:
During the many years when
this estancia was stocked with
Herefords high rates of mortality
were the rule rather than the
exception. Our best year we bad
3 per cent, of deaths in branded
cattle and 9 per cent, in calves.
During six months from Septem-
ber 1, ’53, to the end of February,
’54, we had 1 per cent, of deaths
in branded cattle, and from the
beginning of the calving season in
June last year up to the end of
February, we had 1.4 per cent, of
deaths.
However, it would be a
mistake to suppose that there was
no room for improvement.
Several lots of cows were tested
early this year:
“It has .been common here for
a long time for the first calvers
to average 85 per cent, of calves,
whereas those same cows only
gave from 15 to 20 per cent, the
following year, which fact has
always kept our general per-
centage on the low side. Now
if our cows can be induced to
give a good average percentage
at their second calving then
everything in the garden will be
lovely . . .
“In these largish places, with
broken country, natural water,
and big paddocks, artificial-
insemination is almost an impos-
sibility, the physical difficulties
of spotting the Cows in season
and bringing them to the yards
would require an army of men.
However, artificial-insemination
certainly does open up certain
very attractive possibilities—as,
for instance, the first service of
the two-year-old heifers. These
young animals can be accom-
modated close to the yards on
almost every estancia. As they
have got no calves, extra move-
ment will not hurt them —on the
contrary, it will tame them nicely.
The attraction of the system lies
in the fact that instead of using
3 per cent, or 4 per cent, of bulls,
hundreds of heifers can be served
with the semen obtained from
the one or two best bulls on the
place, thus raising enormously
the quality of the calves.
“The whole subject of
artificial - insemination and
fertility of cows determined by
manual examination is intensely
interesting, and opens up fresh
possibilities in cattle breeding
which, I admit, have been a
closed book as far as I, myself,
am concerned, until the present.
The old saying that ‘you can’t
teach an old dog new tricks’ is as
true today as ever it was. I
tried my hand at physical
exploration, but beyond finding
the uterus, my hand could dis-
tinguish nothing ...”
This, however, is a matter of
experience, and training by a
competent man—usually a
veterinary surgeon.
The conclusions drawn from
the tests are interesting: The
low calving was not caused by
lack of fertility, or by disease ;
the bulls were not to blame.
The main factor was
“ancestrus”; that is, lack of
ovarian function after parturi-
tion —the cow fails to come on
heat. And this has been found
to be influenced by climatic
conditions.
Some examples are given: a
Hereford in the Buenos Aires
province is normally back in
oestrus (heat) 30 to 45 days after
calving. In Corrientes she will
take anything from three to six
Zebu cows on Hudgins's "J.D.H." ranch; where finch says, "the best Zebud in the
world are bred today." The majority of the Zebu bulls used at the King ranch (to form
the Santa Gertrudis breed) came from Hudgins. Zebu bull below weighs 2100lb.
months. A Zebu is back within
a month. The hybrid loses some
of the Zebu’s breeding efficiency,
but comes on heat quicker than
pure-bred European cattle.
As a measuring-stick of the
efficiency of Zebus under certain
conditions, details are given of a
comparison, under commercial
conditions, of “fairly large” con-
signments of Zebu-Hereford and
pure Hereford steers, reared and
fattened under the same condi-
tions ;
The 3160-odd Herefords were
calved approximately in June-
September, 1951, while the 200
hybrids were born in May-June,
1951, the progeny of first-calving
heifers which were served in the
north-east zone having been sent
there from Mercedes during a
drought. They calved back in
Mercedes. They received no pre-
ferential treatment whatsoever.
The Herefords were sent south
to a Rufino (Santa Fe) camp in
several trains between 14/9/’52
and 4/3/’53, and the hybrids
were received in Rufino on
14 /1 / ’53. The two lots fattened
under exactly the same conditions
except that owing to the hybrids’
greater resistance to bloat they
sometimes stayed on lush spring
alfalfa after the Herefords had
to be taken off.
Mortality percentage figures;
Herefords Hybrids
In Mercedes, \ 2.71 0.90
Corrientes /
In Rufino, ! 7.30 2.20
Santa FeJ . , .
All steers were weighed m
December, 1953:
Herefords %
Over 9901 b. .. 131 4
880 to 9901 b. .. 561
770 to 8801 b. .. 1275 40
Under 7701 b. .. 1193 38
3160 100
■ Hybrids %
Over 9901 b. .. 58 28.7
880 to 9901 b. .. 82 40.6
770 to 8801 b. .. 56 27.7
Under 7701 b. 6 JkO
202 100
Of the Herefords, 22% were
over 8801 b.; 69.3% of the hybrids
were over 8801 b.
Other tables follow, a bit too
detailed for reproduction.
Weights, of course, are in kilos,
prices in pesos. But the tendency
continues, right to the abattoirs.
Of the first shipment, hybrids
weighed, on the average, 18 kilos
more, and brought proportion-
ately more per head, than
Herefords nine months older
Finch says that with the second
shipment it should be noted that
the Herefords represented the
cream (close on 12 per cent.) of
3160 steers, while 81 hybrids
were only the second pick from
200 steers. Even so, two-year-
old hybrids brought 966.94 pesos
per head, compared with 945.88
pesos for Herefords of the same
age and 966.43 pesos for three-
year-old Herefords.
Incidentally, the details indi-
cate something of the methods
adopted in a major cattle-raising
country. Here, weighing cattle
for scientific purposes (as has
been done recently at Talbingo,
N.S.W.) is something out of the
ordinary.
Tractor Horsepower
“Billjim”: The term “horse-
power,” as applied to farm-trac-
tors, can be a bit misleading.
C. M. B. Olivecrona, N.Z.
Department of Agriculture
machinery expert, pointed out
recently that all tractors of the
same nominal model are not
necessarily of the same exact
pattern. There may be a small
difference in horsepower.
* Reason? The manufacturers
have found that when a certain
model is popular it pays to
retain the model and the num-
ber for machines made later.
Thus two machines of the same
model (but produced in differ-
ent years) could have different
horsepower-ratings.
The only way to ensure that
machines are identical is to com-
pare the mechanical specifica-
tions and serial-numbers. This
applies only to machines of the
same make, naturally ; in most
cases the year of manufacture
is a sufficiently reliable guide.
Most important points in the
comparison of tractors are:
Brake-horsepower cannot be
compared directly with draw-
bar - horsepower ; belt - horse -
power cannot be compared with
drawbar - horsepower ; belt -
horsepower and brake-horse-
power are sufficiently close to
one another for an approximate
comparison, but belt-horsepower
rating is always a little lower
than brake-horsepower rating;
maximum- and rated-horse-
power cannot be compared with
one another, either with belt-,
brake- or drawbar-horsepower ;
speed is important in all horse-
power-ratings.
Olivecrona advises the
soundest method of assessing the
power of a tractor on the draw-
bar is to take the rated drawbar-
horsepower, where available, be-
cause this is the manufacturer’s
recommendation for the best use
of his product. Where compari-
sons are made between makes or
models, differences in horse-
power definitions should be
taken into account.
"Staff of Life"
“Baker”: So the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment is having another go at
doing something about bread?
Sydney bread is a subject on
which many people have a
variety of opinions, some of
them fascinating. One is re-
minded, at times, of the words
of a disrespectful Army song:
They stand on the square and
they yell and they shout
All about things they know
damn-all about.
After all this high-level shout-
ing a few facts may be of
interest.
Bread-baking quality of flour
is largely determined by both
the quantity and quality of the
gluten (as distinct from the
starch) which it, or the wheat
from which it is milled, con-
tains. On top of this the eating
quality of the bread depends on
the methods of the baker, within
limitations imposed by the flour
and by industrial circumstances.
Quantity of gluten is deter-
mined mainly by the environ-
ment (climate, season, soil) and,
to a much lesser extent, by the
variety of wheat.
Although necessarily a very
slow process, some improve-
ment in the gluten-quality of
N.S.W. wheat through improved
varieties has been effected by
plant-breeders over the past 20
years or so.
In this State a range of
varieties, differing materially in
gluten-quality, is grown accord-
ing to regional suitability. The
southern districts produce the
most wheat, and in these districts


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by iV.jSf. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
TFT? 77
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 35 years
*" DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygela Dissolvenator Diet. Go. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Go. (S.A.), G.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.; R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Following a
GOOD EXAMPLE
The widest choice of
Australian manufactured
tractors to choose from!
Six models all with a
full line of matched
equipment! AOS-6 for
orchards and vineyards
AOS-6 Standard for mixed
farms. Super AW-6 and
AWD-6 for wheat areas,
and two Farmalls for row
crops and tall crops.
w >™ McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
TRACTORS AND MATCHED EQUIPMENT
Follow the lead of successful farmers and invest in McCormick
international tractors and matched equipment. They've proved
that matched equipment pays off with more acres covered per
gallon of fuel. The two tractors illustrated above are the Super
AW-6 and AWD-6, two from the full line of six McCormick
International tractors, all with a full line of equipment matched
in size, weight and speed of operation. See your local I.H.
dealer today for more information.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VICTORIA). WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL
HI
HARVESTER
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
<XL 4BS-M
the gluten-content of the wheat
is relatively low.
Soil-fertility, and especially
nitrogen-content, is the only
environmental factor which is
amenable to some improvement.
But that, too, is a very slow
process, even over the whole of
an individual farm: more so,
naturally, over the whole of the
State.
Thus improvement of soil-
fertility to improve, the quantity
of gluten in wheat, and breed-
ing to improve the quality of the
gluten, are unlikely, in fact, to
be anything but very slowly suc-
cessful in the endeavor to im-
prove bread. Especially when
these factors are dominated by
the more powerful influence of
climate.
Other things being equal, as
they approximately are in mea-
suring the general baking-
quality of the State’s wheat, the
gluten-content is the best single,
simple measure of such quality.
Although the gluten-content is
generally accepted in inter-
national commerce as the best
simple criterion of the quality of
a country’s wheat, it is not by
any means sufficient to indicate
the blending which should be
done to produce a good bakers’
flour, or the methods and treat-
ments which should be adopted
in the bakehouse to get the best
results from such flour. Other
tests, short of pilot baking-tests,
which measure the quality of the
gluten as well as its quantity, are
required.
In general, bakers in Aus-
tralia haven’t sufficient under-
standing of the necessity and
art of modifying their dough-
making and -handling to par-
ticular characters of a flour.
Although doubtless there are
limitations to the modification
of machinery in a modern bake-
house. Leaving aside, for the
moment, any consideration of
the cost of modification and the
incentive an individual baker
may need to undertake it.
Whatever improvement may
be slowly effected by breeding,
or by raising the soil-fertility (in
nitrogen), southern N.S.W.
wheat, like Victorian wheat, will
always have a relatively low
gluten-content. Flour from this
wheat will always require blend-
ing with northern wheat (which
has a higher gluten-content, and
the gluten is of a higher
quality) or will have to have
gluten added to it to make good
bread with machinery which
subjects the dough to relative
punishment.
The N.S.W. Government
hasn’t yet realised that adding
gluten of good quality is the
simplest, cheapest and quickest
means of improving the flour
and, therefore, the bread. In
fact, the price-fixing policy of
the Government has helped to
aggravate the problem.
7 '
That New Orchard
“How E”: “Sundowner” is
right in saying that fruit-trees
need porous subsoil (B.
11/8/’54), though pears will root
deeply in clay. As a general rule,
commercial fruitgrowing is im-
practicable in winter-rainfall
areas unless the roots can pene-
trate to at least 3ft. But good
fruit for the family can be
grown in a variety of shallow
soils.
Deep sand, especially if it
holds water at depth, may be
preferable to richer ground with
rock or hard clay at a foot or
two. Blasting of impermeable
subsoil with explosives may be
economic or not, according to
local conditions. Where irriga-
tion is cheap it may make
shallow soil pay. Land subject
to wide variations in the water-
table will prove unsuitable unless
it can be drained.
Get a practical man to look at
the land available, and have the
ground-water analysed at the
driest time of the year. It may
be a shade too salt for peaches
and still be right for pears. Find-
ing these things out beforehand
saves time and money. Decide,
too, how much time you intend
possible to pick fruit of some
kind nearly every day of the year.
One or two trees ripe at a time
is enough. Small plantings of
rhubarb, gooseberries, or logan-
berries may fill a gap.
If the land is patchy, give the
deepest and best-drained to the
apples, driest to stone-fruit and
nuts, richest to citrus, most
swampy to pears. Where birds
are a pest, plant 'near the house.
Loquats and citrus nearest the
door give evergreen shade and
sweet perfume.
Farm Hints
“Ranger”: Heat knocks
chooks. If shade is scant cut
bags and drape them over net-
ting on at least two sides of the
run. In hot weather don’t hesi-
tate to remove a sheet of gal-
vanised-iron from back of fowl-
house for better ventilation.
Water lightly at night that area
where the fowls take their dust-
bath, but don’t overdo it:
they’ll avoid mud. Always put
food and water in the coolest
spot, of course.
“Big Billy”: Baled hay can
be used with good effect to pro-
tect lambs on properties lacking
adequate natural shelter. Twelve
bales arranged in a semicircle,
with loose hay spread out on the
lee-sides to avoid puddling, will
fill the bill. More than one tier
of bales can be dangerous in a
high wind or if knocked over by
a ewe, unless, say, arranged
against a wire-fence on the
weather-end of an exposed pad-
dock (place them on the oppo-
site side of the fence to where
the lambs are sheltering).
<° spend on muiu'enauce. Fifty
well-tended trees will grow more
and better fruit than acres of
pest-ndden, unpruned, unculti-
vated wrecks.
For commercial production it
usually pays to specialise, grow-
mg only what your land grows
best. Select varieties to spread
your work over the season, but
don’t overdo it. Where citrus,
stone- and pome-fruits are grown
together the picking and packing
of one interfere with the pruning
and spraying of another.
A house-orchard should be
worked on the opposite principle,
In a Mediterranean climate it is
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Next three months seem likely to be below normal as
regards rain. Rain early in October may be followed by
sporadic rain about middle and end of the month, and
summer heat will begin to be felt, increasing in November
with declining rainfall.
October rain may give some fairly good falls inland,
but after that the decline will be quite noticeable. The sun
remains free of spots.


caught his ear and presently he
saw.it, a speck away to the west
heading towards the ’drome.
When it was dose enough to
be recognised as one of theirs
MacLeod went down to the ops.-
room. The plane was then
circling, and he could see that it
was E for Edward. He waited,
listening intently and anxiously
as the pilot reported to the ops.-
officer. They had turned back
the other side of Mersa because
there was not enough cloud.
They hadn’t seen anything of P,
but supposed it would be back
soon as there wasn’t sufficient
cover for it to go on.
MacLeod walked away miser-
ably. He was not reassured.
Green would go on. He was a
mad coot.
■COR the next few hours he
mooched about, listening for
the drone of a plane long after
it was obvious that something
had happened to P. He made
another trip to the ops.-room.
The ops.-officer shook his head.
“He could have landed some-
where.”
It was poor comfort, MacLeod
knew. There were greater proba-
bilities.
When it became dusk, he
couldn’t stand being alone any
longer, and went over to the
mess and made a half-hearted
attempt to eat some dinner. The
bar had been open since stand-
down was announced, but
Talbot’s being missing had cast
a gloom over the mess. Talbot
was a popular chap and one of
the old hands. It hadn’t seemed
possible that anything could
happen to him. Now their faith
in their own immortality was
shaken.
MacLeod had a few beers, but
they made him feel worse. He
remembered how, ages ago it
seemed, on the way back from
Barrani, he’d planned to have a
hell of a beano with Talbot and
the rest of the chaps this evening.
After a while he went over to
the tent and lay down on the
stretcher in the dark, fully
clothed. Faintly, in the distance,
he could hear the gradually
increasing noise in the mess.
Most of the aircrews were
there. The Australians were still
pretty subdued, but some of the
English and Canadians were
getting merry.
Suddenly a truck stopped at
the door. This was unusual at
night, and there was silence as all
eyes turned towards the entrance.
The blanket that covered it was
pulled aside and Talbot came in,
the wireless-operator and turret-
gunner from his crew following
him. All three were grinning
broadly.
The mess yelled with delight,
and dragged them towards the
bar, plying them with pots of
beer and questions. Talbot
answered for them all.
“We got jumped just after we
left Barrani. An M.E. came
up underneath us. We couldn't
make file cloud, so Greeny put
her nose down and headed out
to sea. We shook the Jerry off,
but it ran us short of petrol and
we had to belly-land at Mersa.
They haven’t got the phone
through yet so they sent us back
by truck.”
He looked round the mess,
and left the others to answer
further questions.
“Where’s Mac?” he asked one
of the Australians,
“He went to the tent. Jack. He
was a bit down in the mouth.”
“I’ll go and get him,” said
Talbot. “Line ’em up for us.
Long ’uns,”
He went with light steps
towards the tent,
AJ’acLEOD had heard the
truck stop at the mess, and
had lain quivering between hope
and fear of disappointment,
wanting desperately to go to the
mess, but fighting down the
impulse.
When he heard the footsteps
approaching the tent he told
himself with morose fierceness
tkat . was som ® drunken fool
coming to drag him over to the
mess. As the footsteps got closer
n ?J°o?, e *u kee P n q^ie^
. h( ? s , ie ye J ed ’
kee P hopefulness out
° (^ 1S .y oia T, ~ , , , ,
.
mg, MacLeod, Talbot shoute
ba^i s- T , , . t . .
MacLeod was on his feet m
a second .
“Jack!” he shouted. “Where
the hell have you been?”
“Come over to the mess and
m tell you,” answered Talbot.
“Show us a light.”
There was a sudden crash of
sticks and Talbot cursed loudly,
Torch in hand MacLeod
sprang out of the tent,
“You bloody great bumble-
footed bastard, Talbot,” he
laughed, and with a few hefty
kicks sent the sticks flying across
the sand.
They raced excitedly towards
the lighted mess,
“A friendly sort of place, the
desert,” Talbot was thinking. “It
gets you, somehow,”
(
calculated the emergency accom-
modation in the calaboose.
The natives love litigation
They love it long-drawn-out and
loud. They love sooling the
Government on to transgressors,
and expect adequate results.
“You said you’ll punish wrong-
doers. • We want to see you do it.
Otherwise we’ll do what we did
about things before you came.”
That’s the philosophy.
Against a background of
excited babbling, Dishon quietly
questioned witnesses and quickly
sorted the thing out. At sundown
all (free) hands departed satisfied.
Some native leaders, like
Ninji and Komp at Mt. Hagen,
dignified and stable men who
have been to Australia to meet
Royalty and see the white-man
at home, have thoroughly
grasped Administration aims.
They exert a great and helpful
influence among their people.
It’s a long job for Australia s
young Dale Carnegies, but our
influence is being patiently and
progressively built-up in -N eW
Guinea, in that strange rip where
white ways of thought lap tenta-
tively against black, and civilisa-
tion washes into the Stone Age.
Good luck to our “little-
known people”—the patrol
blokes!
The rMarriage
of Pi
by Olirer
filter
FI had been sick for two
days—staring motionless
into the bushes around her
yard, bleating almost con-
tinuously and refusing to eat.
On the morning of the third
day my wife came back with the
tray; on it were a small bowl
of sugar, a piece of chocolate, a
weet-bix and three fingers of
crisp, dry toast. That, to
ordinary people, might seem a
ridiculous offering to a goat, but
Pi is no ordinary goat, nor is my
wife an ordinary person where
Pi is concerned.
“She just won’t eat a thing,”
she told me. “I’m terribly
worried about her.”
I went out and looked at the
goat. She bleated and butted
at my knees and accepted a pinch
of tobacco from my pouch—
after oysters, she prefers tobacco
to anything. But she didn’t look
well—there was a droop about
her, an agitated twitch to her
tail and a hoarse, unusual note
to her bleat,
“Give her until tonight,” I
said. “If she’s no better then,
we’ll get a vet.”
I came home early in the after-
noon and my wife was more
agitated than ever, “After you
left,” she said, “I tried her with
a gardenia, a rose and an oyster,
and she just wouldn’t look at
them. I got so worried I rang
the doctor, but he said we’d have
to get a vet.”
“I should think so,” I said,
with visions of our smooth,
immaculately - dressed family
doctor being consulted about a
goat.
“Well, I’ve got one,” she said.
“He’s at Plunketville and he’ll see
Pi immediately if we take her.”
“But, good Lord, that’s thirty
miles away!” I expostulated.
“Old Kerblonkers is only a
couple of miles from here.”
“Kerblonkers couldn’t get a
tick out of a dog,” my wife said
scornfully. “This man is the
baker’s cousin and he absolutely
specialises in goats. His name’s
Prince, and he’s got all sorts of
degrees.”
Argument in such circum-
stances is futile, so Prince it was.
We put Pi in the back of the car
and set out for the outer suburbs
on the other side of the city.
Although she has been
driven to several places, this was
Pi’s first venture through the
city. It was dark by the time we
got that far and she was fascin-
ated by the neon signs ; she kept
putting her head out through the
window to look at the light, then
pulling it in again to bleat about
them. She had her head out the
window as we turned the inter-
section at the Town Hall and
she bleated at the traffic cop
from a distance of a couple of
feet. There would have been a
traffic jam if the cop hadn’t got
his mind smartly back to his job.
tt/E found the vet. after an
* * hour’s searching through
the remoter suburbs and with the
aid of a directory and a torch.
He was a rugged young man
with a comforting air of assur-
ance about him and a clean,
beautifully-equipped hospital.
Pi picked her way daintily
down the drive and stood staring
into the light of the dispensary
while he entered our name and
hers on a card.
“She’s a nice little goat,” he
said. “Is she registered?”
My wife rushed in defensively.
“No,” she said, “But she’s a
very good goat. You can see
that. Her mother was just an old
nanny, but we heard that her
father had a pedigree.”
“I see,” said the vet., smiling.
“Then you don’t keep goats.
Just this one.”
“Only Pi,” said my wife with
a touch of pride, “She was given
to us as a baby and we brought
her up as a pet.”
“How old is she?”
“Nearly a year, now.”
The vet. leaned over and felt
Pi’s stomach —or one of them.
“And what are her symptoms?”
“Well, she bleats all the time
and she won’t eat. She’s just not
herself.”
“I see,” said the vet. “And
how are you feeding her?”
“Well, she has weet-bix and
toast and uncooked oatmeal.
And she likes chocolate and
oysters. And she loves fresh
flowers and vegetables if you let
her pick them herself.”
The vet. looked very solemn.
“I see,” he said. “And what
about chaff and oats?”
“Yes, we have those,” said my
wife. “And linseed-meal and
bran and sterilised bone-meal,
just like the book says. But” —
she concluded a little lamely—
“l’m afraid Pi’s not very fond of
them. She won’t eat them unless
there’s absolutely nothing else.”
The vet. let a smile go.; “She’s
in good nick, anyway,” he said.
“But I would try to get her on
the right diet as soon as possible.
You won’t go wrong if you
follow the book.”
My wife named the handbook
on goats and asked if he thought
it was reliable. “Seeing that I
wrote it,” he said with a grin,
“I can recommend it with
confidence.”
My wife blushed prettily.
“And is that all that is wrong
with her? The wrong diet?”
she asked.
“There’s nothing wrong with
her at all,” said the vet. “It’s
time she had a kid; that’s all.
When she bleats and won’t eat
and carries on like this it’s time
she was taken to the billy. It’s
all in the book,” he finished
almost accusingly.
My wife blushed even more
prettily and retreated in con-
fusion. “Can you recommend
a billy?” I asked.
“Oh, yes,” the vet. said. He
looked at his watch. “I can
arrange it now, if you like.
When would it suit you?”
“Any time, I suppose,” I said.
He picked up the phone, and
made the appointment for the
following afternoon. Then he
wrote out our name and address
on his notepaper and handed it
to me. “That’s only a few miles
from where you live.”
“I hope it’s a good billy,” my
wife murmured.
“One of the best.”
He slapped Pi on the flank and
she put her ears back, arched
her neck and butted him in the
legs. “She’s all right,” he said.
npHE next afternoon we put Pi
in the back of the car again
and drove out to the address the
vet. had given us. It was a small
mixed farm —a veranda clearing
among large gums with a pictur-
esque old stone house sheltering
under the edge of the trees.
Leaving my wife and Pi in the
car I walked across to the house
and knocked, A young woman,
a prepossessing blonde in her
early twenties, answered the
door.
“I’m looking for Mr. Grillis,”
I said.
“I’m Mrs. Grillis,” she said.
“My husband won’t be home
from work until this evening.”
“That’s rather awkward,” I
said. “We had an appointment
with him this afternoon.”
She smiled. “Oh, you’re the
people with the goat. Mr.
Prince said you’d be here this
afternoon.”
“That’s right,” I told her. “I
thought he’d be here.”
“Oh no,” she explained. “My
husband works in the city all
day. The animals are my
business,”
I was nonplussed for a
moment. After meeting the vet.
I had formed the illogical idea
that all goat-breeders were
rugged, hearty men. I was
already slightly embarrassed in
the role of giving the goat away,
and I hadn’t expected the billy’s
best man to be a feminine young
blonde.
“Oh,” I said politely. “Ah.
Well”
I was grateful that she took
the matter out of my hands.
“Have you brought the goat?”
she asked,
“She’s in the car,” I said.
“We’ll take her down straight
away/’ she said brightly.
We walked back to the car. I
introduced my wife and let Pi
out of the back seat.
“She’s a nice little doe,” said
Mrs. Grillis.
“Mr. Prince said she’s a very
good goat,” my wife added with
a shade of assertion.
Pi skipped across the grass,
arching her neck, butting
imaginery obstacles and kicking
her heels high in the air. She*
chased a fowl and then stopped
short to contemplate the cow.
Then she saw that we had drawn
on ahead and pranced after us.
On the far side of the farm
there was a small wire-netting
yard with a shed in it. As we
walked towards it the scent of
the billy met us on the breeze—
a peculiar, penetrating aroma
like that of crushed ants, but
infinitely more powerful. My
wife wrinkled her nose in dis-
taste and Pi stood for a moment,
sniffing into the breeze and ears
switched forward. Then she
trotted ahead.
1*713 caught up with her and
’ * reached the gate to the
yard, Mrs. Grillis opened the
gate and Pi made as though to
go through. At that moment,
however, the billy elected to
walk out of his shed. He was a
magnificent creature; as big as
a pony and with a Roman nose,
a sage amber eye and a yellow
beard at least eighteen inches
long. He stepped out of the door
and stood looking at us, but that
was too much for Pi. She gave
one short bleat, wheeled on her
hind legs and bolted back to the
car.
“It’s the first time she’s seen
another goat,” I apologised.
Mrs. Grillis waited while my wife
and I went back for Pi. She was
standing by the car, trembling
and with her ears straight up
and close together.
“I think I’ll stay in the car,”
my wife said.
“Coward,” I told her, and
took Pi by the collar. I led her
back to the yard where Mrs.
Grillis was waiting,
“She’s a reluctant bride,” said
Mrs. Grillis, and I was rather
relieved to realise she was talking
to the billy and did not expect
an answer. I pushed Pi through
the gate and was ready to leave
her to her nuptials.
“When will we call for her?”
I asked.
Mrs. Grillis looked surprised.
“It won’t take a moment,” she
said. “You’d better come in
with her,”
I went in, hopelessly. Pi had
run to one corner of the yard
and was staring through the wire
towards the trees. The billy—
Granchamp the Sixth—came
over and nibbled my sleeve. His
eyes were uncannily wise, I
looked at him, then at Pi and
then at Mrs. Grillis. She looked
as though she belonged to a desk
and typewriter instead of a goat-
yard, but she was apparently
unaware of it.
I stood there hopelessly.
“Couldn’t we just leave them to-
gether for a while?” I suggested.
Mrs. Grillis smiled at me with
disarming frankness. “Goodness
no. Granchamp’s very intelli-
gent,” she said, elevating the
billy’s instincts to reason. “But
you’ll have to hold the doe.”
“My God,” I said, so that she
couldn’t hear me.
T WALKED back to the house
-*■ with Mrs. Grillis. Pi trotted
along meekly behind us. I had
the feeling that Mrs. Grillis was
laughing at me and would still
be laughing when she told her
husband about us. But her face
was straight and businesslike
when she handed me the certific-
ate and said “That will be two
guineas, please.”
I wrote a cheque with a shaky
hancf and took Pi back to the
car. As I got in my wife said
to me, “000, you smell like that
billygoat.”
“If ever you mention billy-
goats to me again, I’ll crown
you,” I said. “And Pi can bleat
at the bushes and go off her food
for the next 20 years before I’ll
do anything about it again,”
We drove home without much
to say. My wife broke the
silence once to hope: “It’ll be
nice if she has a little white kid.”
I grunted in reply. Pi sat in
the back quietly chewing her cud
and taking no interest whatever
in the passing traffic.


MARQUEE TENTS! STRETCHERS! SLEEPING BAGS! BIG ARMY TENTS!! ETC.
EVERYTHING FOR THE CAMPER IN OUR ENLARGED CANVAS SECTION!!!
MARQUEE TENTS
THE MOST SENSATIONAL OFFER EVER MADE!!
WE ARE NOW SOLE AO ENT s
THE “HOODPRU IE”
IOK AUSTRALIA’S MOST
SUPER WATERPROOF
POPULAR MARQUEE
MARQUEES.
g
hg
Fhc.v’re unconditionally guaranteed with full Ja^llv
completely satisfied in every way. All materials specmuy
inmorted and rigidly water tested before manufactured. 800
is of 150/,. rot and w’proof heavy brown canvas. Side walls come
in genuine Boz. white duck.
Equipment includes 6ft. telescopic side poles 9 ft. telescopic
ceiltre poles, steel pegs, all ropes and guys. Packed in own bag,
and fits in boot of any car.
■ Hoodprufe” guaranteed (or money back) marquees are available In the three wanted sizes at
£2Bl
12 x 12
£321
£391
Add V
■ /. * t V-^
“Hoodprufe” marquees are really waterproof. The man that wants proof buys a “Hoodprufe”
of course.
ARMY "BELL" TENTS!
Sensational release! New Condition. Complete all ropes. Heavy
w’proof canvas. Years since we've had these;_ Only a tew on
offer. So hurry. Cost over £BO. Released for just
Add 7/6 cartage to rail please. __
£35/0/0
&es
Oil p*mT I^l'
OIL PAINT
Steady
ou, paint fm
10,000 GALLONS
GENUINE
"SUPA-KOTE"
(Reg.)
OIL
PAINT
Complete satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded in full.
High gloss finish. Full bodied
ready mixed. Tested and
proved throughout Australia.
All wanted colors.
Cream, White, Right and Mid
Stone, Mid and Right Green,
Chocolate, French Grey, and the
ever-popular “Roofing Red.”
“Cover much more for much
less” with “Supa-Kote.”
JUST
4 GAL
DRUMS
£5
Add 3/6 drum cartage to rail
“FOB A BETTER OOAT—
VOU’I.E USE SUPA-KOTE.”
f
OUR EXTRA
SPECIAL.!
STIRRUP
PUMPS!
(EX-ARMY)
Last chance.
Oomple t e
with 15 feet
hose and 3-
way s|)r a y
nozzle. Tor
garden ers,
a r c h ardists,
farin s, etc.
Out they go.
£1
each
E.o.r. Sydney
oof,
Ex-R.A.A.F. release.
Extra good
condition. Bis 20 x 13
size. Save pounds.
ONLY
ƒg
Add 4/6 cartage to rail.
CAR COVERS
GENUINE “.lAEA KA”
Made from R.A.A.F. Target
sheets. Double sewn, eyelettert.
Bargain!
15x12 18x12
£h\
Post 3/6.
STOP PRISS! Super Gilt Special
ELECTRIC TRAIN SETS
Brand spanking new. Colossal value. Complete with
former, carriages, engine, rails, etc.
Precision built. High class finish.
Genuine. £15 value. 50 sets only
on offer for just
Add 7/6 packing and post.
trans-
■MF
*B/10/-
YES! LAY-BY FOR XMAS IF YOU WISH
RUCK-SACKS
<k
•SAC 1
WK
-sd
$
eteßo<ffiWgck£T&
iKEmtwcevstAMS
You’ll want one of these at
our reduced prices. Fulij
guaranteed. For hikers, bush
walkers they’re
a must.
65/- value for
only
49/6
EACH
Add 3/- post
ARMY TABLES
Folding Type. Masonite top
(■ood condition.
Slight f a ill t s
only.
Bargain at ....
Add 3/6 cartage
to rail.
25/-
MOSQUITO
Green
Army Type. Brand
new. Perfect. 6 x 3 with 4ft.
f
37/6
Post 3/6.
GYM BOOTS
Specially imported in colors
of White, Blue, Black and
Brown. livery
■size from s’s to
H’s. Cheapest
in Australia ..
17/6
PAIR
Add 2/6 post.
Army "Web"
By public demand,
released for quick
sale. Good con-
dition. Complete.
All Brass
Post %/-.
TOO only
7/6
Guaranteed
CANVAS
WATER BAGS
Uin. 9/6 14in- 10/11
Ifiin. 12/11 I* 1 "- 13/11
Add 3/- prist.
GENUINE ARMY TENTS
(As illustrated)
GENUINE ARMY TENTS
8 Man Rot and Waterproof Army Tents in brand new
condition. Direct from disposals. All ropes and
guys. Dimited supply. Orders executed in strict
rotation. Cost over £6O. NOW ONLY •
ƒ
Add 7/6 cartage to rail.
SLEEPING BAGS! SYDNEYS BIGGEST RANGE!
LOWEST PRICES! ALL BRAND NEW! PERFECT!
*‘THE DADDY OF THEM ADD”
FEATHER FILLED
Genuine “Japara” Sleepers. Specially
selected purified duck feathers. Complete
with Japara hood attached. Eight, packs
away in own drawstring Japara hag.
“YOU CAN’T BUY' A BETTER SDEEPER”
Usual price is
around the £!) mark
We release now foi
IHmHIhHHHI
Plus 3/6 post.
/10/-
XXX SPECIAL!
W’PROOF SLEEPERS AT LESS THAN
COST!
Hare on these non. Well filled with new
wadding. Quilted so filling can never drop.
Zip fitted. Full size. In own bag.
Complete for just .
Post 3/6.
79
Heavy
Brand
ARMY VALISE
SLEEPING BAGS
Waterproof Canvas,
new. Reduced to
Blanket lined
75/-
Add 3/6 cartage to rail.
R.A.A.F.
SLEEPING BAGS
Brand new: Perfect! Damp-proof. Pure
Java Kapok filled. Bigr sizes. Packs m
own kair. Cost over £lO.
Special Release.
Now only ......
Post 3/-.
£5
-fM
HIKERS' TENTS!
NEW! DIFFERENT!
LIGHTEST EVER!
Hade from specially tested
w’proof plastic. They’re the
answer for the hiker for
something extra light yet
durable. Packs away In
own small hag. Size is 6tt.
x 4ft. (3 man)
and priced at
only
Plus 3/6 Post.
i*e is on.
59/6
n
m
Candle
Lantern
Stormproof
Ex-Army.
Cost over £5.
Out they ro.
Add 5/6
racking &
Freight.
14/6
EACH
STRETCHERS
BX-ABMV FOUDING
HEAVY CANVAS TOP
New! Shop-soiled only.
Worth £5. AQ /i
Our price.. V> #/ O CO*
Add 3/- to Rail
MATTRESSES
New and Perfect. Flock
Filled. Imported Ticking.
Strong tufted. 6ft. x 3ft.
3in. Only ...... AA /JL
Nearly 1 Price XT/ O
Post 3/6.
PILLOWS
Extra Special! Standard
Sizes. Imported English
Ticking. Well filled.
OCR SUPER OFFER
2 for 15/6
Add 2/6 "post.
tEDS
u: tu
urn
tu?
iflfl
S;:
Add 3/6 cartage
to Rail. Please
state nearest
attended plat
form.
The Real Thin*. GENUINE
Diamond Wire Iron Folding
BEDS. Condition as NEW.
Early orders m*»
advisable. o*#S« CCI*
ARMY CUTLERY
KNIVES FORKS DESSERT
SPOONS
Good Condition
idoz. lots Ido*, lots
10/- 18/-
Post %/-.
Naval Hammocks
H’weight canvas. Eyeletted
each end. Sound condition.
Some almost new. sft. 9in.
x 3ft. 9in. 1001 uses.
Bargain at Af. _ „
only Z3S. 60.
Add 4/6 post.
TARP CANVAS
joo*. Brown Proofed Canvas
by the yard. Easily worth
10s. yd.
Add 1/6 yard postage.
PALLIASSES
BX-ARXV. FINAL BE-
ERASE, 1001 uses for
camp beds, mattress Over-
lays, Stretcher Covers, etc.
2 for 15/-
Add 2/6 to Rail.
Camp Blankets
BRAND NEW IMPORTED
Dark Grey—l Wool and
Cotton. 60 x 80, 19/6 Bach.
2 for 35/-
Add 3/- Post.
g
sctrp/us Pisposo/s
Storesr*y- Ltd..
439PfTTSr cm. CmPBOL ST.
SYCWEY AtA 7308
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
NO C.O.D.
PLEASE ADD
EXCHANGE
TO CHEQUES
//


si
rj
£a,
lfiftA
E?ffl
TR-.aV>.'; ,
Tl;;;;i\\'.;;j
:j
s*T.'
Wmgt
ir *jsGasas
SSMSesSssglsfflrS
SS£
V\Jsl
;,v
66
. ~ __ - - -- ■ _ i
Foil want it — You’ll get it!
99
The little group of men braced themselves against the wind and
stared through narrowed eyes across the 30 foot stretch of grey,
choppy water at the little fishing vessel.
“Hope she don’t go in the drink,” muttered one young fellow,
hunching his shoulders in his coat and rolling his eyes nervously at
the man on his left.
“She’ll be right.” His companion’s tone was far from confident.
“Hey—here she goes!”
Across on the small ship, deck hands froze at the rail. Then the great
diesel tractor began to move, steel tracks clanking on the heavy
planks stretched across the watery gap to the shore.
Above in the sullen sky gulls wheeled, screaming, white flashes
against the dark background of stark, craggy cliffs, and the watchers
sucked in their breaths as the tractor clanked closer . . . halfway . . .
then fifteen feet . . . ten . . . five . . .
Then it was ashore, rumbling triumphantly towards them and they
broke, running in closer, calling excitedly like schoolboys.
The Mallaluca Tin Mine had taken delivery of its Caterpillar D 2
Tractor, complete with 2A Bulldozer.
• • •
When Denis King, of the Mallaluca Tin Mine, Port Davey, Tasmania,
ordered a Caterpillar Track-type Tractor he knew the problems he
would have to face. Port Davey, surrounded by rugged mountains
and situated on a very rough stretch of coast, is Tasmania’s most
isolated and most inaccessible port. But it could be done. He knew
it.
For three weeks the 80 foot fishing vessel “Toora” sheltered down
the coast waiting for a break In the weather, then she pushed up to
Port Davey and off-loaded the big yellow machine.
But that was just the beginning. Denis King had to get it to the mine,
five tough miles away, across swampy marshland cut by rivers and
creeks. So away they went, the sure-footed steel tracks rolling out
their certain road, wallowing along in the ooze, the great steel blade
’dozing in the banks of the creeks to make the fording easy.
Then they were at the mine——the big yellow machine the centre of an
eager, admiring group, the only machine of its kind ever to be seen
in that remote area.
• «
One more verse remains to be told in this saga of enterprise;
Serviceman Moscatt and Salesman Radcliffe, of the staff of William
Adams Tractors Pty. Ltd., flew in to effect the delivery in an Auster
aircraft, landing on a beach eight miles from the mine. Having seen
that the new arrival had been nicely bedded down and in perfect
condition for the task ahead, they had to wait for a further three
days for the unfavourable weather conditions to pass before their
tiny aircraft could land to take them out.
The Mallaluca Tin Mine needed one of the big yellow machines and
they’ve got it: a combination of power and ruggedness to match the
bleak, tough terrain away down on Tasmania’s lonely, sea-lashed
coast at Port Davey.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD. SYDNEY
<?LD.; HASTINGS DEERING (OLD.) PTY LTD
BRISBANE. iv j it. LID..
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY LTD
MELBOURNE. ' '
lAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD
HOBART. **
W. MIST.: WIOMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED. LAE.
