

THE HOUSE
advt
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
SHIP-MODELS —by NORMAN LINDSAY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—-No. 3900
Wednesday, November 10, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
JAMES COOK, R.N., F.R.S.,
a Voyager of Great Renown
Seppelts
6 6 /‘''APTAIN JAMES COOK, R.N.,
F.R.S., born 1728, died 1779.
Circumnavigator of the Globe, explorer
of the Pacific Ocean, he laid the founda-
tions of the British Empire in Australia
and New Zealand.” These words appear
as an inscription on the base of the statue
of the celebrated navigator which stands
near Admiralty Arch in London.
James Cook was bom in Yorkshire at
the village of Marton, and at the age of
twelve he was apprenticed to a haber-
dasher on the outskirts of Whitby on
the Yorkshire coast. This sort of life,
however, did not appeal to him, and,
following a dispute, he left his employer
and boarded a coastal vessel as a collier's
apprentice, and it was not long before
he became mate. His success in life was
assured upon joining the Royal Navy in
1755 at. the age of 27. Within nine years
he had been master of three ships, and
was appointed marine surveyor of New-
foundland and Labrador in 1764. The
charts and observations he drew up on
this expedition attracted the attention
of the Royal Society, which invited him
to take part in a scientific expedition to
the South Seas. His ship was the
Endeavour, and after reaching Otaheite,
where he established an observatory, he
continued his voyage, which brought him
to New Zealand, where he found the
native tribes hostile. From there he
sailed to Australia, or New Holland, as
it was then known. He took possession
of the coast near Botany Bay in the name
of Great Britain and called it New South
Wales,
Upon his return to England, Cook was
made Captain and put in charge of a
second expedition with his ship Resolu-
tion, a vessel of 462 tons, and a smaller
ship, the Adventure, with a total crew of
193 men. On this voyage of discovery
Captain Cook arrived at the Society
Islands in New Caledonia. He spent three
years cruising in the Pacific and southern
oceans, during which time he lost only
one man through illness. During his last
fatal voyage, which began from England
in 1776, Captain Cook discovered the
Sandwich Islands, which he named after
the Earl of Sandwich. It was there that
he met his death in a dispute with the
natives about the loss of one of his boats.


Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. Quick service moderate charge*.
The Red Page
SHIP-MODELS
Windjammer Modelling, by Clive
Monk (Faber), is not a work one would
recommend to any enthusiast who makes
a hobby of building ship-models. Mr.
Monk is an exponent of the device which
cuts the hull short at the load-line and
nails it to a board crudely painted to
represent waves —which are not thereby
represented.
No lover of the lines of a sailing-ship
would tolerate such a wretched expedient
for dodging the major technical difficulty
of ship-modelling, which is a precise
reproduction of its underwater lines. On
those a ship’s sailing-qualities largely
depend. In themselves, they have the
beauty of a synthetic unity which is the
constructive principle of all art. For
centuries ship-designers experimented
with modulations on the pattern of a
ship’s projection till they arrived at last
at its perfect form, both for use and
beauty, in the great days of clipper-ship
building.
Again, no true model of a sailing-ship
can be made by hacking it out of a
lump of wood, as advocated by Mr.
Monk. A scale-plan of the model must
first be made and the ribs cut on the
precise lines of its projection, and set
up on the keel, and thereafter planked.
Or a template of the ribs may be cut in
cardboard or three-ply and set up on the
keel, and sections of wood cut lengthways
to fit the curves of the hull, and so built
up to deck-level. Only on such terms
can a model be designed in miniature
replica of the ship it seeks to reproduce.
Mr. Monk reproduces, with approval,
photos of a model made on the principles
laid down by him in the spare time of
six weeks. This, in itself, disposes of
any need to take his textbook on ship-
modelling seriously.
Possibly it may be urged that a trifling
hobby such as making ship-models is not
one to be taken seriously. But expert
craftsmanship in any work of man’s
hands is a thing to be taken seriously,
for it is not too much to claim that half
the discontent of the working-classes
today is due to the death of craftsman-
ship. An age of machine-made products
is slowly atrophying the human thumb,
and demoralising whatever dim sense of
beauty mankind in the mass may have
cultivated. Man can’t make a single
utility today that is worth looking at or
treasuring as a piece of virtuosity. On
that score, this age, dominated by the
scientist and the mechanician, will be
represented by a blank space in those
museums which collect the objects of
art from past ages.
The sailing-ship is one of the most
beautiful utilities ever designed by man.
It is utterly extinct today, and our only
means of realising its beauty is in study-
ing the authentic shipwright’s models
now housed in such museums as that of
South Kensington. Those date only from
the late 16th century. All earlier models
are reconstructions from data supplied
by prints or paintings, even as far back
as the vase- and tomb-paintings of the
Greeks and Egyptians. Much of the
detail and construction in these reproduc-
tions is problematical. We still don’t
know how the oarsmen of a Greek or
Roman trireme were seated in order
to give space and leverage in handling
their oars. The only early shipwrights’
working-plans extant are those of a late
15th-century Genoese ship-builder, as far
as I know. At least I was shown an
immense volume of such plans by the
curator of the South Kensington museum,
who assured me that it was the only
one in existence. From the plans of an
Elizabethan shipwright the experts at
the museum have built the model of an
Elizabethan merchantman, as correct in
all details as research can make it.
But the real old-masters of the ship-
model are those of the late 16th century,
some of the most perfect examples of
which are in the South Kensington
museum. Such models will never be
made again, for there are no wood-
carvers who could handle boxwood as if
it was a malleable material, or joiners
vyho could put together the numberless
Jitlle pieces of wood which make such
models with such exquisite precision.
1 here is one little boxwood model at
South Kensington about five inches
overall, rigged with human hair, perfect
in every detail. I was examining this
with one of the riggers attached to the
museum, an old Navy man, and chanced
to say, “The man who rigged that must
have had amazing hands.” Said he,
“Have a look at them,” and held out a
pair of immense hands: the hands of a
sailor who had served in warships when
they still carried masts and yards. It
was staggering to discover that such
hands could nip a hair to pins so
fine that one had to use a magnifying-
glass to see them. He had used his wife’s
hair, and complained to me that she had
recently cut her hair short and so deprived
him of rigging material. . .
No doubt that tiny model was a piece
of swank on the part of the craftsman
who produced it, just to show that wood-
work could match the craft of jeweller
or silversmith. But the larger 16th-
century models were never designed as
museum-pieces. They were made to an
exact scale by the master shipwright for
the ship that was to be built from them,
it will be remembered that when the
Dutch sailed up the Medway and burned
and sank the Navy ships anchored there,
Commissioner Peter Pett escaped with his
models, making it his excuse, according
to Samuel Pepys, that “he did believe
the Dutch would have made more advan-
tage of the models than of the ships, and
that the King had had greater loss
thereby”—but they sent him to the
Tower for all that. One of those same
models, that of the Royal Charles, is in
the South Kensington museum to this
day.
Personally, I have found making ship-
models the most satisfactory of time-
wasting devices for escaping temporarily
from the tension of work. Apart from
what craftsmanship there may be in
turning-out a model, there is the sustained
interest in learning as much as a lands-
man may know about the masting, rig-
ging, and sail-plan by which a ship is
driven and controlled by the propelling
power of the wind. Every rope and block,
in a sailing-ship has its special function,
evolved by the tried experience of many
generations of master mariners. Unless
a model is correct in all such details, as
well as in its construction, lines, and
deck furnishings, it is valueless as a
miniature replica of the type of sailing-
ship it represents.
Not that I propose to make a cult of
ship-models. Anything that amuses one’s
leisure, or teaches the hand to handle
tools, is worth doing. On that score Mr.
Monk’s book would be a very suitable
manual for schoolboys who are driven by
an urge to make a mess of the house
with chips. But nowadays, I understand,
they prefer to make models of aircraft.
Whether that damns them to the era of
the atomic bomb is a matter I prefer not
to think about.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
John Blight's Poems
For fifteen years or more, since he first
began to publish in The Bulletin, John
Blight has been one of the most original,
the most unusual—one might almost say
the most peculiar—writers of poetry in
Australia ; and in The Two Suns Met,
published by the Lyrebird Writers with
the aid of the Commonwealth Fund, he
more than fulfils the promise of The
Old Pianist of 1945 ; now richer with
imaginative experience, more precise in
expression, mellower in mood.
There is seldom anything sensational in
his poetry, immediately to capture the
public eye. It is small in range and
scope and awkward though not obscure
in style ; abrupt, jerky, full of inversions
and compressions, difficult.
But under the sober surface the verse
is alive as frogs in a pool; and its awk-
wardness of style, setting down exactly
what the writer has himself perceived,
serves very well as a kind of veil between
the writer and the reader —whipped aside
at the right moment to intensify the sur-
prise of Blight’s sometimes very surpris-
ing thoughts. It is like a man waking
from sleep recounting, still a little
drowsily, the marvels he has seen.
One of his most peculiar fancies is to
imagine a convict, just having been lashed
with the “cat,” fondling a kitten and
reflecting that, if it had the chance, the
one-tailed cat would be just as cruel as
the nine-tailed. Another is when he pulls
a turnip from the garden and thinks it is
like a skull, then reflects that after all,
plants having their own kind of life, it
is a kind of skull. Once again the under-
lying vision is of man’s and Nature’s
ruthlessness;
In true perspective then I saw
A turnip face-down on the earth;
Its wild hair matted since its birth.
A physiognomy so weak
—No forehead and no lower jaw—
There never was a soul so meek;
I dragged it by a lock of hair.
And for its fate I took no care.
He sees the print on the page of a book
as “black lace,” through which, blank
bone or still vivid with life, eternally peers
its author. In a lighter fancy, when the
cliffs are turned to stone men watching
the white dance of a waterfall, he climbs
down, setting his foot on “the bridge of
some gentleman’s nose.” With another
of his unexpected twists of humor he
enters the mind of Macpherson’s bull to
burst triumphantly out of the gate, bail
up Jock Macpherson and sail gloriously
towards the neighbor’s cows. He sees the
land as a cloud, weighing upon and
tainting the minds of sailors. He observes,
in more lyrical thought, how at dusk
you can almost “count the minutes” in
the still and darkening air. He enters in
“The Friar Bird” into the mind of
Creation itself, some queer, stony divinity
who has dreamed-up the desert;
Bracken, sand and bush. Barely a dozen
thoughts
Creation scattered here. Oh, who thinks
like this?
How wizened is his mind!
Queer events and queer objects fascin-
ate him, as well as his own queer
thoughts, and so he forcefully describes,
within the compact space of the sonnet-
like form he has developed, the growth
of murderous hatred between two men
camped together by a lonely creek ; and
he is probably the first Australian writer
to perceive and record the poetic values
of such strange denizens of the Queens-
land rain-forests as “snake’s-bread sprout-
ing like red ears” and “the rare spit-
insects” which leave upon twigs a deposit
like saliva.
Quietly treading his own path all these
years, exploring with a flickering lantern
his underworld of “confusions, doubts,
that please,” always himself even when
contemporary movements lure him one
way or another aside, John Blight has
written in “Becalmed” (from the text of
which Two Suns Met takes its title) at
least one poem which expresses his highly
individual, paradoxical talent to the full;
the sort of poem that, often with some
injustice to richer but less-memorable
works, becomes a permanent anthology-
piece, In a fantasy which might have
occurred to Coleridge—but didn’t in these
precise terms —Blight’s ancient mariners
are becalmed in waters so still that they
cannot tell sea from sky;—•
Lord, it is dark. The two suns met
In a blaze of flame we won’t forget:
And which ate which, we could not say;
But night came on and at dose of day
We cheered, “All’s not proved double yet.”
Too soon, too soon! The moon that rose
Split into two, like silver shoes:
One walked the sky, one walked the sea;
But which walked which was strange to me:
For south of the Line, who knows . . ,
who knows?
But the whole book, not just this
exceptionally attractive piece of topsy-
turvydom, needs to be read to enjoy the
full measure of Blight’s originality ; and
so, too, completely to do him justice,
should the remarkable series of sea-poems
he has lately been publishing in The
Bulletin. One hopes they will be avail-
able in book-form with much less delay
than the present admirable selection.
All Over the Place
Long ago one did a sketch of Sir
Osbert Sitwell as a museum-guide; and
in his new book The Four Continents
(Macmillan) he is to be seen very much
in this role, to which he brings the experi-
ences of his travels and a lifelong interest
in prose-as-composition ; that is, he likes
to take a bit of travel, an ancient work
of art, a recent experience, all from
different countries, and throw them about
in a musical form approaching that of a
free fantasy.
Thus his chapter on “Towers” opens
with a summary of towers and walls seen
all over the world, works into a wonder
whether the reference to an echo in
Webster’s “Duchess of Malfi” was based
on the knowledge that her palace stood
above a valley on the way from Atrani
to Ravello still famous for its sinister
echoes, then moves on to the tower of
the Italian castle he inherited from his
father, and comes to a climax and con-
clusion with a consideration of the towers
of New York: —
Thus set within a limited space these
high clusters of roofs, these pyramids,
pagodas and steeples, these cupolas and
belfries, so unpredictable and so mon-
strous in their beauty, have been obliged
through their very constriction to expand
upward, compelled to mount in this fashion
towards the heaven through the characteris-
tic clear sparkle of the New York air.
They constitute equally a spiritual expression
of good fortune and a supreme material
expression of the will to succeed.
And then he is off on to a long purple
patch of coda on the dreams of the New
Yorkers.
In such manner we are introduced in
various places to the sculptor Nadelman
who made figurines with cherrywood and
paint in New York, the pleasures of
walking pigs about on leashes in South
American villages, the Bowes museum in
England which neither of its wealthy
builders and proprietors lived to see
opened, the Ringling museum set up by
the circus-family at their headquarters in
Sarasota in America, a Chinese fortune-
teller who was wrong, except about a law-
suit, an English phrenologist who said
Edith, aged 16, would be a famous poet,
a Syrian, Turk, Spaniard or Sicilian who
claimed to be a magician in the Grand
Bazaar at Constantinople, the trembling
captain of a boat on the Panama run,
the problems of Euphrosyne (“pro-
nounced Ufrozyne”) the negress maid in
a Cristobal hotel, and her habit of speak-
ing clearly and ci ideally of guests she did
not hke to other guests so that her com-
ments could be heard by their objects
across the sieve-like ventilations of wall-
, Tr: WU ‘ I ® UUUS .*■ w ‘r id
tops and doors, Chinese statuary, Moorish
mosques built on Roman Corinthian
pillars, early Roman mosaics, French
cloisters transplanted to New York
Also, in Chapter 10, he includes* an
evidently hitherto-unpublished sketch
performed by those two world-famous
comedians, Sir George and Osbert Sitwell,
one of the best to date. This one, entitled
“Making a Bolt for It,” begins with the
father simulating grave illness to per-
suade the son to visit him in his Floren-
tine castle, Osbert, consulting the doctor,
conveys to his father the news that
he has, indeed, only twenty years to live,
whereupon the old man gets out of bed
and a little later confides that his corres-
pondence with a “widow with no back-
ground but a past” has gone so far as to
threaten his future peace-of-mind. That
on the old man’s death this correspond-
cnee turns out to be no more than a
set of requests from the widow for advice
on the stockmarket, and Sir George’s
efforts to oblige, does not prevent Sir
Osbert making a gay and audacious few
pages of it.
Reviewed Briefly
Alicia Deane: E. V. Timms (Angus
and Robertson). Mr. Timms has great
popularity among Australian and over-
seas readers, but most know his work
from the historical novels of the Aus-
tralian series upon which he has long
been engaged. He first made his repu-
tation with a series of historical novels
of the 17th century, and these Angus and
Robertson are now reprinting, Alicia
Deane being the first reprint. An adven-
ture-romance which begins among the
shady plotting that led to the Monmouth
rebellion, it traces the fate of some of
the luckless Somerset people who suffered
from that piece of misguided gallantry
and chicanery in high places. The back-
ground ranges from England to the West
Indies ; there is desperate adventure on
the high seas involving pirates; and a
picture of the methods of the notorious
Judge Jeffries.
* * * *
Selected Poems of John Clare: James
Reeves (Heinemann). One hundred and
thirty-four pages of close printing in their
“Poetry Bookshelf” series of selections,
which includes volumes of D. H. Law-
rence, G. M. Hopkins and Donne. There
is an introduction by the editor to this
English peasant’s son, who was crossed
in love, begot a large family of children,
neglected them and his farm for poetry,
was taken up by the London literary
crowd and went mad. He was the rare
and true nature-poet who could hardly
write a line that was not a fresh and
clear observation of the countryside.
* * » ♦
Return Journey: Barbara Goolden
(Heinemann). The naive and stodgy
daughter of a country clergyman, after
a lifetime of “good works” in a country
parish, is killed by a tram. Arrived at
Paradise she is granted one year of her
life to relive on earth, with a choice of
attributes she lacked during her lifetime.
She chooses physical beauty and is addi-
tionally granted the ability to express her
opinions. The difficulty foreseen by the
Paradisal officers is that beauty of form
allied to beauty of soul (which she always
had) is a chancy mixture. Obviously this
theme has possibilities : the French made
an excellent existentialist film from simi-
lar material. But Miss Goolden, as in
previous novels, has a remarkable talent
for wrapping bright ideas in masses of
cottonwool; her characters are snobbish
either directly or invertedly, and speak
in gentle, slow-running platitudes.


Senior
weehltf news of nctivities 9 vulties and advantages fvont Anthony Movdeirns
THY THESE
SERVICES
use our
convenient
Lay-by
Service
It’s a wonderful help
when special bargains are
being offered. Just a small
deposit secures the goods
for you, then pay the
balance off in convenient
monthly payments.
Country customers, too,
can lay-by, just by for-
warding us the deposit
(4/- in the £). We’ll
reserve whatever you want
by monthly payments till
finalised. Second Floor.
at your
Service our
Catering
Staff!
If you’ve a party, wed-
ding reception or cele-
bration, our catering ex-
perts will arrange every-
thing for you . . , food
decorations and cutlery.
We’ll lend our cutlery,
crockery and glassware
for that special occasion
—the charges are very
moderate. Ring 80951.
Dial
80951
ash for
Copyright
for service
A special service instituted
by T.O.P.S. to help you
remember those easily for-
gotten anniversaries, birth-
days, etc. Just ring
80951 and let T.O.P.S.
register it so that they can
ring you and remind you
in plenty of time next year.
Vorget-me-not
A special service instituted
by T.O.P.S. to help you
remember those easily
forgotten anniversaries,
birthdays, etc. Just ring
M 2401 and let T.O.P.S.
register it so that they
can ring you and remind
you in plenty of time
next year.
T.O.P.S
t
N '\
m
a
ms
m
N* i
\/
H
BfcSi
.
I
mm
•>:
w-.
Our
beautifut
limlniiiioiiirv Shop
is a haven tor tfotnetnuhers
fd
fd
mm.
I
■' > V|
' ' ;CS>v
If you’re dreaming of a home furnished in the modern manner with tasteful, glossy magazine
pieces that can lift a home right out of the ordinary without lifting the budget sky high
. . . our wonderful CONTEMPORARY SHOP can make those dreams come true. High
above the street, indeed high above the usual standard of furniture show-rooms, this
ultra-smart shop within a shop the CON TEMPORARY SHOP was specially designed
for your convenience along sth Avenue lines by our own furniture designers. Here,
in this ultra smart shop within a shop, is every facility for you, the home planner, to select
your furniture and furnishings quietly and carefully. Here, too, you will see the carpets, and
ceramics, the accessories and knick-knacks that are perfect for
every modern home. And here, too, in our
Contemporary Shop, you can co-ordinate your purchases
from any of our household departments —trained
assistants are only to happy to come round with you.
Country customers particularly will appreciate this
attention when visiting the city. What better service than
shopping under one roof attended by one assistant?
f
Our own Wing Chair!
These interesting wing chairs the most comfortable we ve ever sat
in are available in a large range of plain and modern designed fabrics,
and are priced from £24 each, depending upon coverings chosen.
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
.nthony Hordern,
K/9K
d
PHONE T. O. P. S. 80951 FOR YOUR ORDER OR
MAIL
TO BOX 2712, G. P. 0.,
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 10, 1954
Vol 75—No, 3900
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE LAWLESS WHARFIES
IF Australia is to face a prolonged strike by the
wharflaborers. it is as well that it should happen
now, because it is time that Mr. Healy and his
Communist friends were taught that the Govern-
ment of the Commonwealth resides in Canberra,
and not in Moscow.
At present the extraordinary position exists
that the leaders of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion recognise the Malenkov Government as the
rightful rulers of Australia, and their policy and
operations are directed towards ensuring victory
for the Soviet Union in the world war which is
now in its cold stages.
The Australian Stevedoring Industry Board,
framed by a “Labor” Government with the help
of. its war-time trade-union advisory panel, which
contained a majority of Communist officials, was
designed to suit the purposes of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, which at that time lived
happily in two worlds, its leaders taking part both
in the deliberations of the Communist Polit-
Bureau and Central Committee and of the A.L.P.,
many of whose policies it originated. The position
today is not much better. The board’s restricted
measures of discipline have been treated with
contempt by the union.
What has been happening on the wharves is
not a merely local manifestation. Transport is at the
heart of life, of wellbeing and of civilisation. And
there has been for over 30 years a concerted and
deliberate world-wide plan organised originally by
Dmitrov, head of the Comintern, and Losovsky,
of the Red International of Labor Unions, to break
it down in all Western countries. It is no accident
that the troubles of Australia synchronise with
those of Europe. A few weeks ago Sydney had a
bus-traffic hold-up produced by the striking of
technicians in bus-garages. In London the same
sort of thing followed. In London there has been
a huge dock-strike organised by mysterious
unofficial leaders on the same pretexts that have
brought out Australian unionists in Communist-led
unions over the past few years—pretexts so unim-
portant that it is an unimaginable wickedness to
dislocate the whole life of the nation and its
defence through resting a lethal strike on them and
to leave £250,000,000-worth of cargo rotting in
holds.
In Australia the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, Red-controlled, deliberately and openly law-
less and defiant of Governments and public opinion,
is at present, thanks to legislation brought in by
Dr. Evatt and his supporters, a monopoly unique
in its powers and privileges. Its membership is a
closed corporation. It deliberately maintains a
policy of keeping the industry in which it is
engaged in a perpetual state of labor “shortage,”
though there is, in fact, much redundant labor in
the industry due to the union decree that eight men
must work a hold, where four could do it better. It
has no regard to the character of its members. It
tolerates the continued employment of pillagers,
loafers and drunkards.
There was a case in Newcastle recently of a
member who has been reported for various types
of misbehavior no fewer than 53 times in 23 months
and yet retained his membership and his employ-
ment. There are known cases in which convicted
pillagers have been brought back, and the number
of unconvi&ed pillagers is legion. The union itself
places every obstacle in the way of increase of
employment. It has been resisting bitterly an effort
in Melbourne to bring the work-force of the port
up to reasonable quota. It has been equally
obstructive in Port Kembla, where 75,000 tons of
steel, mounting every week, has been piling up. It
stops work on busy ports in the most arrogant
manner for purposes which can be described only
as sabotage—such as to hear Comrade Rupert
Lockwood, a hanger-on of the Soviet Union who
has been exposed before the Royal Commission on
Espionage as the author of a document of “fact,
falsity and filth,” written for a Red agent in the
shelter of a hostile but tolerated Embassy. It rests
its justification for these stoppages on its sacred
“right to strike” —a right which has long been
fly-blown and tainted because of Communist misuse
of it.
If the watersiders were an oppressed body,
overworked and put upon, it would be another
matter. But in plain fact they work in all ports
35 hours or under a week, and the best port yields
them an average of over £l9 a week for a 34-hour
week. They refuse to countenance modern
mechanical loading, so that Australian wharves,
even under full pressure, are the slowest in
handling in the world this side of Murmansk. The
measure of the toughness of their labor can be
judged from the fact that during the war, when
their leaders were yelling for “every effort by Aus-
tralia to help Soviet Russia, the world’s only hope,
to win the war,” thin-muscled volunteers from
office jobs became affluent in the weekends doing
the jobs they were shirking. They are the only types
of worker who are paid attendance-money—it costs
the industry £750,000 a year.
Although the watersiders have for the past 15
years been pampered and overpaid, they have still
had, since 1947, more than 100 per cent, increase in
wages, despite a cataclysmic reduction of hours and
the pace of work. Their amenities at ports run
industry into millions a year, and many of them
are demanded wantonly and are rarely used. And
the works slows up in direct ratio to their increased
pay.
The figures of the stevedoring economy are
difficult to believe. In the year ended last June
there were 24,250 registered waterside-workers
who worked a total of 34,000,000 man-hours in 46
Australian ports, 40 per cent, of it on inter-State
ships. The average, including “disability men,”
was 27.8 hours’ work a week for an average wage
of £l4 6s. 6d., plus attendance-money, which
brought the total average earning up to the region
of £l5 a week. Allowing for absenteeism and the
slow workers, the real average for all ports of those
following the calling regularly was over £lB. The
total wage-bill of the industry last year was round
£20,000,000.
Yet the workers in this pampered industry
show no sense of responsibility towards the com-
munity which keeps them in comfort and half-
idleness. Their leaders, concerned only with their
work as agents for Communism (which has as its
deliberate objective the breakdown of the Western
economy and civilisation), encourage them in every
tendency likely to produce chaos.
It is a condition of affairs that cannot be
allowed to go on. Of ail goods carried inter-State,
about 80 per cent, are carried in ships, and the
country is at present at the mercy of Messrs. Healy
and Roach and whoever directs their operations
from Communist-party headquarters.
All the Commonwealth Government proposes
to do is to reduce this completely unskilled industry
to the same level as other industries in the interests
of stability in transport and the cutting-down of
living-costs in general; also, incidentally, to save it,
inter alia, the £1,150,000 which it costs to run the
Australian Stevedoring Industry Board under which
Dr. Evatt and his fellow-workers socialised wharf-
employment. The main provision of the amend-
ing legislation is that new applicants for registration
in the industry must be approved by the employers.
It is to be hoped that Canberra will show more
firmness than it has in the past in dealing with
Communist outlaws. They should have been put
in their places years ago.
The Guidance Referendum
ON Saturday the electors of New South Wales will
be required to cast their votes on the matter of
closing-hours for hotels and clubs. It will be a
very peculiar referendum. Everyone will be in it
—drinkers*' as well as non-drinkers; club-members
as well as those who do not belong to clubs, have
been expelled from clubs, have been refused
admission to clubs or have never had the slightest
desire to join a club; brewers —both the registered,
large-scale operators who pay their excise and
dividends regularly and the suburban bootleggers
who have a treasured recipe and do their brewing
in the family copper; the publicans, the night-club
proprietors and the sly-grog men, including Peter,
George, Mac and Bert, of whom the Maxwell
report says “their identity has never been estab-
lished,” but who presumably figure somewhere on
the electoral roll. Also included will be topers
who would like to see the pubs open 24 hours a
day and prohibitionists (wrongly self-described as
temperance-advocates) who would like to see them
closed for 25.
Many of these groups have a vested interest —
or at least a personal interest—in either six-o’clock
or 10-o’clock closing, but there are tens of thous-
ands of voters to whom it is a matter of supreme
indifference whether the bars open all night or
never open at all. But, irrespective of their interest,
or lack of it, everyone will be required to vote.
And of those who do it is probably safe to say that
90 per cent, will do so under the impression that
the result of the poll will determine future
drinking-hours in New South Wales. In so think-
ing, the 90 per cent, are gravely mistaken.
In sponsoring the referendum bill in the
Assembly, Attorney-General Sheahan said that the
vote was to be taken purely “for the guidance of
the Government.” If that is so, then the Cahill
Government needs more guidance than a shipload
of guide-dogs could provide. It received 105 closely
printed pages of guidance from Maxwell, J., and
a considerable portion of his Liquor Report
related to the question of closing-hours; his con-
clusions left no doubt as to where he stood on the
subject:—
I am satisfied that the evidence requires
the finding that there are evils associated with
six-o’clock closing which ought not to be
tolerated in a civilised community.... In the
metropolitan area conditions associated with
six-o’clock are deplorable; apart from any
other consideration, a refusal to attempt some
reform involves the conscious perpetuation of
a clearly established evil; in addition, the
present closing-hour encourages sly-grog and
after-hour trading at blackmarket rates.
The royal commissioner came to that con-
clusion .after hearing arguments for and against
six-o’clock closing from many types of witnesses,
after investigating for himself the six-o’clock swill,
after examining the drinking conditions in other
States, with closing-times varying from 6 p.m. to
10 p.m., and after close observation of late-closing
in England and on the Continent. The net result
is that the Government is seeking further “guid-
ance” from the electors, without giving any under-
taking that any notice will be taken of it.
Even stranger than the “guidance” plea is the
inclusion of clubs in the referendum. Electors are
to vote on clubs, along with pubs, but on this point
the Government is not even looking fpr guidance.
The Attorney-General’s story is that no matter
which way the vote goes there is no intention of
disturbing the present privileges of clubs, and when
a deputation from the A.L.P. executive, seeing in
the proposal a menace to its hopes for more
working-men’s clubs, waited on the Premier in
protest, it came away expressing itself satisfied that
the inclusion of clubs in the referendum was
necessary because
If the Government did not do this, controversial
legislation would be necessary to give clubs the right
to sell liquor seven days a week.
The Government’s case, then, is that it does not
intend to interfere with the existing rights of clubs,
but that in order to preserve those rights it is
necessary to ask the people for an expression of
opinion as to whether clubs which now have the
right to sell liquor to members at all hours should
in future close at 6 p.m. or 10 p.m. The expression
of opinion, it is added, will have no real weight; it
is merely wanted for the guidance of the Govern-
ment. Clubs will still have their present rights no
matter what the result of the referendum, but if
they are not included in the referendum they may
lose them.
Possibly there is some innocent and straight-
forward meaning in all this that is perfectly clear
to the Premier, his Attorney-General and his
Minister for Justice, but, if so, none of them
managed to make it clear in the course of the
debate on the bill.
It would seem, however, that it was made
clear to the deputation from the A.L.P. executive
that went up to Parliament House prepared to tear
the place to pieces and came away satisfied that
everything in the beer-garden was lovely. Were
they told more than the Opposition and the public?
Or is it just that they were easier to convince?
There is a suspicion, too, that the brewing
interests can also make sense of the tangle.
Breweries own 884 of the 2028 hotels licensed in
New South Wales. They sell the beer to the 393
registered clubs which compete with them in the
retailing of it. The present proportion of clubs to
pubs is one to five, but if even half the expected
applications for new licences are granted the clubs
will become formidable competitors of the pubs
—both brewery-owned and privately owned —in
the bar-trade.
The Cahill Government and the N. S. Wales
“Labor” party are moved to high indignation at
any suggestion that liquor-interests have had an
unseen hand in the framing of the referendum
proposals, but in the absence of a clear and con-
vincing explanation it is natural that people
should look for a mo’re sinister one.
Saturday’s vote, then, means nothing, except
as a “guide” to an inept Government which sought
no such guidance before enacting compulsory
unionism. A win for 10-o’clock would at least tell
the Government that a majority of the people agree
with Judge Maxwell that it is time a move was
made towards more civilised drinking habits; a
victory for early-closing would be acquiescence in
a continuation of the pig-swill conditions his report
condemns.
After that it will still be up to the Cahills to
go ahead with whatever “reforms” they—or their
advisers—have in mind, but which they so far
have not had the courage to reveal.


THE BATTLE OF THE BULGE


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Margins Judgment
The judgment of the Federal Arbitration
Court in the margins-case conformed in
principle to the line The Bulletin has
advocated ever since margins became a
live issue. The court has taken the view
that margins for skill mean margins for
skill and not merely margins for belong-
ing to a union with a loud enough voice
and a sufficiently large membership to
make its presence felt.
The trade-union approach to the prob-
lem has been rather anomalous, due
largely to having to satisfy the diverg-
ent demands of various classes of mem-
bers. That the highly skilled man has
in recent years lost most of the advantage
he used to hold over his less-trained
fellows is not denied by anyone. His
changed position is partly the result of the
fact that the steep basic-wage increases,
added uniformly to all grades of wages,
have lessened the relative value of his
fixed margin ; in addition, in many indus-
tries there have been variations in mar-
gins which have not been to his advan-
tage. Union advocates have tended to
use the skilled man’s plight as an argu-
ment justifying an increase, but at the
same time, having to remember that they
represent semi-skilled and unskilled
workers as well, they have insisted that
all margins should be increased; they
asked the court to bring all margins to
double the 1947 figure.
The effect of such action would be to
boost all wages, which would mean an
immediate rise in living-costs—the
familiar pattern of the quarterly adjust-
ment story so recently put aside. From
such a course no one at all would gain,
and the court told the unions last
February, in postponing the case, that it
could not accept the argument that all
margins should be adjusted in accord-
ance with variations in the purchasing-
power of money.
On Friday the court said:
Our purpose in prescribing new and
higher margins for the skilled employees
in this award has been to restore to some
extent their marginal status in relation
to the unskilled. It is obvious that to give
the same proportionate increase of exist-
ing margins to the unskilled as to the
skilled would, generally speaking, destroy
that purpose.
To arrive at a fair basis for its award
the court went back to 1937, before a
series of judgments upset the original
balance between the various grades of
workers ; the new margin for skill is to
be, generally speaking, 2\ times the 1937
figure. The judgment affects, primarily,
only, the metal-trades unions, but it may
be expected to be taken as a pattern-
award, to be applied to other unions on
application.
The court voiced the belief that the
national economy will be able to stand
the very considerable cost involved, but
implicit in this is the expectation that
the increased incentive now offered to
youths to become apprenticed to a skilled
trade will ultimately increase produc-
tivity. Unless this happens, costs must
inevitably rise. And, with wool and
wheat prices down, that would produce
problems.
Democrats Win
The results of the United States Congres-
sional elections leave President Eisen-
hower crippled, at least in domestic
policy, during the last two years of his
term. It is a commentary on democracy,
or so-called democracy, which likes its
Government exciting, with plenty of
promises of something-for-nothing and
plenty of fairy-tales.
The Republicans are generally ham-
pered through producing a businesslike
and matter-of-fact form of government.
The yellow press does not find them
very good news-sources. All the cluster
of Leftist propaganda-organisations con-
centrates to persuade the country from
the outset that Republican Governments
are failures. President Eisenhower was
unlucky enough to start with a civil
service riddled with Leftists from the
highest level downwards, many of them
Communists and more loyal to Russia
than to the United States. The Presi-
dent’s supporters failed to strike the
popular imagination, and, though the
country has been generally prosperous
during the Republican regime (last year’s
“recession” notwithstanding) and has
made more headway with foreign policy
than at any other period, it seems
doomed at the next Presidential elections.
With the Governorship of New York
captured from the Republicans, Mr.
Averiil Hardman has a good start for
next Presidential selection if he wants it.
In the old Senate the democrats had
46 seats ; in the new they will have 48,
which will give them a majority of one.
In the “House” their strength increases
from 215 to 232, and the Republican
strength falls from 219 to 202.
The fact that he has this slight majority
against him in both Chambers does not
affect the President’s power as much as
a similar reversal would affect that of a
Government in a British country. His
executive powers are enormous, and, par-
ticularly on foreign policy, he has support
from the Democrats- to an extent which
would seem fantastic to parish-pump
politicians like Dr, Evatt.
Though, for instance, the Joint Atomic
Energy Commission will lose its Republi-
can chairman, the new Democratic chair-
man, Senator Clinton Anderson, of New
Mexico, is a backer of the President’s
policy. '
Senator Walter George, the southern
Democrat who takes over the chairman-
ship of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, is also a supporter of the
basic Eisenhower foreign policy, and
the President may even gain by the trans-
fer of a Democrat to the position of
Senate majority-leader, since the violent
support for the Nationalist Chinese of
the just-ousted Senator Knowland has
often proved a severe embarrassment to
the executive Government. The new
majority-leader. Senator Lyndon John-
son, of Texas, also supports Eisen-
hower’s course in foreign affairs. But
in domestic matters it is an entirely
different story.
With such figures as Hardman, Alban
Barkley (formerly Democrat Vice-
President) and President Roosevelt’s
spell-binding speech-writer, Sam Ray-
burn, triumphantly victorious it would
seem that the United States and the
world are in for a new dose of Roose-
veltism in 1956. But it won’t be quite
the same sort of Rooseveltism as last
time. It will be very wary of public
opinion when it comes to dealing with
Communism, which F. D. Roosevelt
never was.
The Challenge to Parliament
The speech of Mr. Menzies over the
A.B.C. network on Sunday night was
commonsense from the first word to the
last.
The Waterside Workers’ Federation, a
Communist-managed union, was experi-
mentally given a monopoly by the
Chifley Government, and it has grossly
abused it, having used it flagrantly for
the purpose of slugging the public,
weakening defence, and helping Mos-
cow. It has kept the labor on the wharves
at breakdown standard. It has encouraged
its members to loaf. It has not discouraged
pillage, drunkenness or arrogant defiance
of control. It has brought the shipping
industry to the point of chaos and over-
seas shipping firms to the point at which
some of them are seriously considering
whether they will withdraw from the
Australian trade.
Parliament has set out to introduce the
same discipline into the industry as
applies to other industries and trade-
unions. Its bill does not challenge any
principle for which trade-unionism
stands. It does not abolish the Stevedor-
ing Industry Board. It even maintains
the union’s monopoly and restriction of
membership unless the labor force at
any port falls below the prescribed
quota. Then, if the union fails, as it has
consistently failed, to admit suitable and
sufficient workers, the employers may
recommend for employment persons who
satisfy physical requirements of the
board and are members of the union or
have applied to join it. And the union
has a statutory right of objection to
applicants. The only fault to be found
with the measure, indeed, is that it has
too many loopholes which the Com-
munists can use for purposes of sabotage.
This scheme is brigaded with one to
establish a committee of inquiry which
will investigate the working of the steve-
doring industry and its efficiency and
costing both as it affects the employer
and the employee.
The watersiders have decided to resist,
even at the cost of doing without their
£3 lOs.-a-day pay for a time and putting
thousands of fellow-workers out of jobs.
And Dr. Evatt and Mr. Healy are as one
in believing the bill to be “a disgraceful
piece of legislation,” representing in prin-
ciple, Dr. Evatt says, “a quite wrong
method of recruitment. The employer is
to do the recruiting.”
It no longer seems strange that Dr,
Evatt should join with Mr. Healy in
believing that it is disgraceful that an
employer should have any say as to
whom he desires to employ. Both he
and the Communist party, of which he
seems to have become a sort of unofficial
leader and spokesman, appear to be con-
vinced that any system which does not
give the Communists and their Moscow-
backers full control of employment is
iniquitous.
The country is being disorganised by
a union led by people whom the Federal
Executive of the “Labor” party, in a
resolution quoted and adopted not long
ago by Dr. Evatt himself, declared to be
operating against the rocket-range in
South Australia “for the sole purpose
of defeating the Australian defence
policy in the interests of a foreign
Power.”
The “Labor” Government, too, in
1949 was compelled to take measures
with the coalminers, who showed a simi-
lar arrogance to that which the Water-
side Workers are now displaying.
It took exactly the same stand as the
Menzies Government is taking with the
wharfies and had the full backing of the
Liberal and Country parties. In the
present dispute the Government has a
right to expect that it will receive the
support of the Opposition as it has to date
received that of the A.C.T.U. But if it
does not it will be the worse for the
Opposition.
The Ministry is faced with defiance,
and every thinking man and woman,
especially those who are feeling the
pinch of unemployment caused by the
Communist leadership’s attitude, will
agree with the Prime Minister that the
country would “properly despise and
reject” the Government if it yielded to
a deliberate Communist challenge to
Parliament:
If direct action—the law of the jungle—
is to replace the lawful processes which
have brought us so far, those who lose
most will plainly be those who gained
most in the past by the orderly processes
of arbitration.
Either Healy and Roach must be put
in their places or the sea-transport
industry of Australia must perish, and
employment in general must be reduced
to chaos to please Moscow.
Playford Seeks Help
The Commonwealth Grants Commission,
gathered in Adelaide to listen to what
South Australia had to say in support of
an application for a special grant for 1955-
56 from the tax-reimbursement fund,
heard what the Premier of a progressive
and expanding State is put to in having to
wait a couple of years for its cut from
the income-tax pool.
Premier Playford said that, as the
Commonwealth did not now underwrite
loans, his State had to find finance not
only to provide necessary facilities for new
and expanding industries but to house a
rapidly growing population and provide
improved public services.
Thus, although expansion in S.A. had
meant greater financial benefit to Com-
monwealth finances by way of increased
tax-revenue, the State itself was dependent
on the loan market and, to some extent,
on State revenue. He added that, were
it not for the two years’ lag in reimburse-
ments and other aspects of uniform taxa-
tion, S.A. would no longer be a “claimant
State.”
Had S.A. remained the agricultural
province it was 20 years ago the story
of Australian development in the past 10
years would not have been nearly so
impressive. In proportion to population,
S.A. expansion is ahead of any other
State, and it looks like staying that way.
It is probably true, as Mr. Playford
says, that, on the old system of dual-
taxation, S.A. could give up its “claimant”
status. But, very much as the S.A.
Government may wish to have back the
right to tax income, there is little chance
of getting it. Nor does it seem possible
that earlier tax-reimbursements can be
made under the present system of
Federal budgeting. All the same, there
is a case for a man seeking assistance for
a growing business with an assured
future.
All Take and No Give
It was characteristic of “Labor’s”
approach to the Seato treaty that it
was prepared to accept whatever security
was offered to Australia under that
admittedly imperfect document without
giving anything spontaneously in return.
The party agreed by only a narrow
majority to support the treaty at all;
but it then moved to prevent ratification
until approval had been given by the U.S.,
Britain and Maoriland, and to prevent
armed forces going abroad under the
treaty without prior approval of Parlia-
ment.
As Liberal Fred Osborne (N.S.W.)
pointed out in the House of Reps, this
was a careful following of the Com-
munist line. He reminded some obviously
disturbed “Labor” members that Dr.
Evatt had never shown more clearly his
attitude to Communism. In his speech,
Evatt complained of the preamble to the
bill, and said the draftsmen had seemed
to think they were writing a manifesto
against Communism. Fascism and
nationalism, he declared, were equally
productive of aggression. “Why, there-
fore, is the emphasis in the preamble on
this one particular form of aggression?”
He answered this question himself by
saying the agreement obviously addressed
itself to the situation in Indo-China,
which, no doubt, Mr. Dulles had in mind.
He followed with the queer declaration
that if there were Japanese aggression in
the vast treaty-area as a result of a
thrust southward into the- Pacific the
United States would not, under the pre-
sent agreement, be under any obligation
to take part in armed resistance to such
aggression. Later he blew out this argu-
ment by pointing out that the U.N. was
pledged to resist aggression by collective
action, whether the aggression was
“nationalist. Communist or Fascist.”
But his general line, directed at suggest-
ing, by inference, that the immediate
threat in the Pacific and South-East Asia
is not Communism, was rejected by the
House, and his amendments were not
accepted.
Red Propaganda in Schools
Mr. Heffron, N. S. Wales Minister for
Education, has promised to have with-
drawn from the correspondence-course
run by his department’s Blackfriars School
a geography-lesson on Russia which is in
effect a banal piece of propaganda for
the Soviet system. His explanation is
that it was written in 1941 when Russia
was our ally. It would be interesting
to know whether a corresponding lesson
on China, also our ally in 1941, praised
the Chiang Kai-shek regime and, if so,
whether it has since been brought up-to-
date.
Blackfriars School is an institution
which has a fine record of service among
children of the outback, and it is a
shame that it should have been made the
victim of a piece of foolishness like this.
The Minister says another lesson will be
substituted for the one objected to. It
is to be hoped he doesn’t ask the Social
Studies Syllabus Committee to lend him
a man to do the job.. That committee,
according to an answer to a question,
asked the Minister last month, includes
Samuel Phineas Lewis, former president
of the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation,
and
at a recent meeting of the Social Studies
Syllabus Committee, it was decided to
appoint a sub-committee to “integrate
and re-draft Course A and B of the
present syllabus, and consider the pre-
paration of a bibliography as an adjunct
to the new syllabus.” Mr. Lewis was
appointed as one of the four members of
the sub-committee.
To a question asked by Darby, M.L.A.,
“Is it a fact that Mr. Lewis subscribes
to Communistic principles and supports
the attitude of the Communist party?”
Heffron replied “I do not know.”
In reply to another question the
Minister said:
An assurance can be given that every
possible precaution is being _ taken to en-
sure that, during the teaching of social
studies, Communist propaganda or political
propaganda of any kind is not given to
our boys and girls.
Every possible precaution? With Samuel
Phineas Lewis helping to integrate and
re-draft the course!
Tunnels for Trams
Once again the disgraceful outfit which
calls itself the Government of New South
Wales is skiting about what it intends to
do to reform Sydney’s transport night-
mare.
A Mr, Mallam (Government) was given
the job of replying to a censure motion
by Mr. Willis (Liberal), and came up
with the idea of digging tunnels and
putting in an underground tram-system.
He even suggested that city property-
owners would be glad to build their
shops and offices two stories, higher and
contribute to the cost of putting the
trams underground.
Then, as though the place isn’t already
cluttered up with transport experts,
authorities and their reports, the gentle-
man said his Government should set-up
“an authority of transport experts to
control traffic.”
This chimerical body would, in Mr.
Mallam’S vision, build another bridge or
a tunnel to the North Shore, make a heli-
copter landing-ground at Central Station,
“immediately” build “cheap” diversionary
roads and bridges and —but what’s the
use? It’s all just another of those Cahill
Government smokescreens put out to
{Continued on next page)


hidb from the people the real mess and
the practical remedies staring everybody
in the face.
Mr. Mallam’s dream, or nightmare, or
whatever it is, was followed by one from
Mr. Hills (Government), who also happens
to be Lord Mayor of the city. He wants
business-people to aid the City Council
to provide more parking, and asks for
the council power to force constructors
of new buildings to provide parking-space.
What such people could expect in the
way of reduced rates and better municipal
services wasn’t mentioned.
This claptrap was rounded off by the
Minister for Transport, who held that the
Government had done wonders in trans-
port, and its transport system compared
favorably with those of other States and
overseas countries. He was probably
thinking of other “Labor”-controlled
States and countries like Liberia and
Ceylon.
Sydneysiders returning from tours
abroad stand astonished at the deteriora-
tion in both the public transport system
and the control of traffic. In the latter
the police seem to have given up. On
busy intersections both pedestrians and
motorists have an open go, and it’s a
matter of who is game enough to chance
it. Neither red-lights nor policemen’s
hands mean anything to pedestrians, and
at uncontrolled crossings the scene is
incredible to eyes fresh from the order
of British and European cities.
It is, of course, part and parcel of the
general collapse of administration after
13 years of “Labor” rule, and it shows to
what dreadful level Governmental thought
has sunk, and what contempt “Labor”
has for the public that members and
Ministers should mouth such rubbish and
be seriously reported in the newspapers.
POLITICAL POINTS
Final score in U.S. Senate elections:
Democrats, 48 ; Republicans, 47 ; Indi-
pendent, 1. The Independent is
expected to vote with the Democrats on
most issues. In the Representatives the
Democrats won 232 seats, the Republicans
203.
• •
On Friday Tom Playford completed his
16th successive year as Premier of South
Australia. His long run is unequalled in
Australia, and among Empire statesmen
only Sir Robert Walpole and Mackenzie
King have beaten it. But Tom is still in
harness, with a clear road ahead.
• •
The 1954 census will result in the
increase of seats in the House of Repre-
sentatives by one. In Victoria (33),
Queensland (18) and Tasmania (5) there
will be no changes. S.A. (10) and W.A.
(8) will each gain one, and N.S.W. (47)
will lose one. Earlier it had been thought
that Queensland might lose a member,
but Gair’s State managed to justify its
present 18 seats by the merest margin.
But within each State there will be a
general redistribution of boundaries to
offset the changes in concentration of
population which have occurred in such
seats as Latrobe (Vic.), where the rolls
now hold about 70,000 electors.
• •
Lord Lindsay, back in Canberra after
translating for Attlee and Co. in Red
China, says the Peking crowd are making
a mess of their foreign policies. Will
Attlee and Evatt believe him?
• •
The resignation of C. W. Anderson,
general-secretary of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. branch, shows how weak the glue
of loyalty is that holds together the shaky
structure of “Labor.” Anderson’s
announcements have given the impression
of monolithic support in the N. S. Wales
branch for Dr. Evatt’s curious antics.
But it appears -that inside the monolith
there has been enough industrial rot to
make Anderson’s position untenable.
The 64-dollar question in “Labor”
circles is: “Who’s next for the high-
jump?”
• •
“In the ACT”: White Jim Healy, smug
and overweight, sat in the Speaker's
Gallery of the Reps last Thursday night
the lights were going out on the wharves
all around Australia. Labor Minister
Harold Holt, facing him only a few yards
away, made it clear to the country what
Healy and his underlings knew already—
that the Government would not be
intimidated, and that the limits of patience
had been reached with the blatant and
Communist-inspired campaign of the
waterside workers to disrupt work on the
waterfront. Healy, of course, didn’t care.
He had sold his story to the wharflaborers,
and they were beginning a strike that
could end only in eventual and disastrous
defeat, but which in the meafitime would
have the most serious effects on the
national economy and cause hard and
cruel unemployment. This would be
chalked up as a Red victory, no matter
how the families of the wharflumpers
suffered, or how many tens of thousands
of other workers lost their jobs as a
result.
• •
For “Labor’s” deputy-leadership, some
of the speculators say the answer’s
a Lemmon.
• •
A move is at last to be made to end
the ridiculous system under which a
young hoodlum can “borrow” a car, do
untold damage to it and get off with a
mild sentence for “illegally using” the
vehicle. New South Wales is to have
a law under which this type of theft will
be called a theft and treated accordingly.
Maximum penalty, five years.
• •
“Membership of trade-unions should
be a voluntary matter.” Who said that?
Dr. Evatt in the Canberra Parliament
last Wednesday, during a debate on the
Stevedoring bill. So far. Premier Cahill,
who makes unionism compulsory, has
offered no comment.
Unwonted co-operation among the
the three Opposition - parties in the
Victorian Parliament led to the proposed
increases in the salaries of Premier Cain
and other top Parliamentarians being
considerably lopped. Cain’s new screw
will be £5OOO instead of £6000; the
deputy-Premier’s £4OOO instead of £4500.
Ministers will get £5OO less than they
were banking -on ; assistant - Ministers
£250. Opposition-leader Bolte, who
initiated the move, will also lose £5OO
through it, and other leaders’ rises will
be cut proportionately. Rank-and-file
members are unaffected. As Treasurer,
Cain should be happy; the amendment
will save his Government £lO,OOO a year.
• •
The smell left by the last Leichhardt
municipal council, dissolved by order
of the N. S. Wales Government in April,
1953, is still hanging around, but
Administrator Dane considers it is just
about under control. There’ll probably
be an election towards the middle of
next year.
• •
Replying to a request for his Govern-
ment to consider establishing an oil-
refinery at Wallaroo, on Spencer Gulf,
Soustralian Premier Playford said that
two oil companies had inquired about
the possibilities of acquiring land for
refineries near Port Adelaide, He
SOCIAL STUDIES
"The square wheel, children, is ‘Labor’s’ great contribution to the Austra-
lian economy; it has practically brought land transport to a standstill.”
doubted whether they would go as far
afield as Wallaroo. Including those
under construction, there are seven
refineries in Australia —three in Victoria,
three in N. S. Wales and one in
Westralia.
• •
Sundry London papers recently ran a
symposium on smoking and lung-cancer.
In the midst of it appeared a dignified
letter from a reader in India, pointing
out that no cases of carcinoma of the
lung as the result of smoking had been
recorded in China since the Chinese
People’s Peace Republic had nationalised
the tobacco-industry. That’s a facer for
the imperialistic exploiters of the people
who sell non-nationalised tobacco.
• •
Dr. Bialoguski, in reply to criticism
by Dr. Evatt, has written to the
Opposition-leader pointing out that he
joined the Security service in 1949 when
it was under the Doc.’s control.
• •
Shell Oil’s assistant-general-manager,
denying N. S. Wales Prices Minister
Landa’s statement that his company is
making rebates of 2d. or 3d. a gallon to
about 40 per cent, of its customers, said
bluntly that the remark was “completely
untrue,” adding that
If Mr. Landa is so allergic to rebates,
could he please inform us why he, as
chairman of the Prices Ministers’ meetings,
makes the oil industry give a rebate of
3id. a gallon to Government departments,
thus forcing the industry to sell petrol to
the Government well below cost?
While on the subject of rebates, the
Minister might explain why the N. S.
Wales Government Insurance Office
gives all Government servants a cut rate
on their premiums,
• •
The heinous crime of “baking during
prohibited hours” is apparently still rife
in Sydney. Last week two catering firms
were fined £6O and £37 10s. respectively
for allowing their employees to start
work before 5 a.m., the starting-time
provided for in the award ; 16 employees
each stopped a fiver for their part in the
offence. Quite right, too. If that sort
of thing is allowed to develop, before
long we’ll have people actually working
when they don’t have to.
• •
Applicants for licences to televise com-
mercial programmes in Sydney and Mel-
bourne will shortly be heard in public
by the Broadcasting Control Board.
Applications have to be lodged by
January 1, and details will be awaited
with a good deal of interest by those who
can imagine no good in TV, by those
who regard it as the ultimate in educa-
tional blessing and by that great majority
which will eventually be bullied or
cajoled into buying television-sets —to
find that, when the first novelty has worn
off, the programmes and the accorripany-
ing advertisements are not quite so entic-
ing as the propagandists assert. The
board should be given facts without
ballyhoo, sober estimates of costs and
revenues, and clear indication of the
sources and quality of the proposed
programmes.
• •
When the Postal Workers’ Union holds
its Federal conference in Sydney this
month it will be confronted with a
Queensland resolution that afternoon
delivery of mail should stop when it
rains. This is an example of the extra-
ordinary attitude of Australians to rain.
In a dry country, where rain is abso-
lutely necessary for the prosperity and
good content of everybody, Australians
run inside and hide every time it falls.
In other countries —and it used to be so
here —postal-workers proudly boast that
come snow, hail, rain, war, earthquake
and anything else, the mails go through.
• •
An amendment to the Wheat Industry
Stabilisation Bill, to restrict the power
of the Minister to order the Wheat
Board to sell wheat at less than the
highest price for home-consumption and
at below export parity for export,.was
defeated when only eight Government
Senators voted for it. Does this mean
the rest favor the Minister having such
power, even after the notorious wheat
deal with New Zealand when “Labor”
ruled both countries?
• •
The verbal mud Evatt threw at
the three judges oa &e Petrov Corn-
mission did not exhaust his supply. The
Arbitration Court judges are his latest
target. Thus;
I believe that but for the majority vote
of the people at the last general elections
in favor of Labor’s policy for an all-round
increase in margins, the matter would have
been still further delayed and justice further
denied.
It seems the only way to get justice in
Australia is to sack all judges. State and
Federal, and hand their jobs over to
Bert.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Encouraged by a
Paris report that the French Foreign
Office considered Madame Ollier blame-
less on one charge, Evatt rushed once
more into print to suggest the visit by a
French commission to Australia to find
who was responsible for injuring her. He
went on to attack, as previously, the
Australian Security Service, whose
record and actions have been so
completely vindicated by the Petrov
Commission. Evatt is aware that any
attempt to muzzle him would enable
him to play the martyr in the
cause of free speech. But more and
more people are feeling that he is a
desperately frightened man, who feels
that the only defence left is attack, no
matter what harm is done to individuals
or the nation.
< • •
In Canberra members are discussing a
possible visit to S.-E. Asian countries
during the Parliamentary recess —perhaps
by members of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, on which “Labor” has pig-
headedly refused seats. Perhaps the
Opposition view will change if a trip is in
prospect.
• •
“In the ACT”: Army Minister Jos.
Francis made a dignified acknowledg-
ment of error on one small aspect of the
Stockton tragedy, concerning which
some “Labor” men have been pressing
for a public inquiry. Three trainees
lost their lives in the sea-exercise, and
in subsequent statements Francis denied
that there was any liquor on board the
vehicles. He has now admitted that two
dozen bottles of beer, bought by crew
members for off-duty consumption, were
carried on one vehicle. He stressed,
however, that no alcohol was consumed
by any of the crew of this vehicle before
departure from Camp Shortland or
during the exercise. It was clear, he
said, that the presence on board of a
small quantity of liquor did not con-
tribute in any way to the accident.
• •
Menzies plans a leisurely trip to and
from the Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
conference, summoned for London at
the end of January. If domestic and
world affairs give him the chance of a
holiday he can feel he’s earned it.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
MOW they have trains in England that
- L1 talk, and which announce each
station as they come to it and tell folks
where they’re going. An extension of the
principle is desirable. A Sydney electric-
train, for instance, feeling one of its
breakdowns coming on, might creep into
stations hinting this imminent doom to
intending passengers—moaning “Oh
dear, will I last the distance? I’m not
feeling at all well today.” Or a less well-
bred train, packed with denizens of the
seamier suburbs, might snarl “ ’Ave a
go at gettin’ on, sport!” Anyway, it’s
comforting to know that the evolution of
the train, despite the discovery of more
advanced forms of transport, is by no
means yet complete. So one day we may
even expect train-services which run to
time and (a yet longer stride) to hear the
8.30 train proudly announcing “We made
a profit last year!”—“K.R.”
❖
“Capricorn”; “One peppercorn a year
is the rent paid for Sydney Cricket
Ground.” This little statistic, fraught with
romantic tradition, has been exhumed by
one of Sydney’s dailies. It’s pleasant to
think of Alderman O’Dea, hung with
furs, graciously accepting the pepper-
corn. But surely it’s time ye olde sportes-
menne were fair-rented. Lesser tenants
may start offering odd comestibles in lieu
of rent. At that, some groaning landlords
“Fifty-two weeks in the year, 'n' you must go 'n' pick Show Week to
look for that squeak!”
might feel themselves better off with,
instead of the weekly pittance, a bottle
of tomato-sauce. Key-money, no doubt,
would consist of a case of tea.
* *
“A.M.A.”: “Ybsul” (B. 20/10/’54) on
the extensive use of imaginary aircraft,
artillery and so on in the courses of
national trainees took me back to
invasion-threatened England. A woman
car-driver came to a bridge and was
about to cross when a swaddie on a
training exercise stopped her and
informed her that she could not cross
the bridge—it had been bombed out of
existence. After some protracted argu-
ment she turned to another soldier who
had drifted along and appealed to him.
“Am I mad or is he? There is a per-
fectly sound bridge there, is there not?”
“Don’t ask me, Mum,” said the new
arrival, “I’ve been dead three days.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bellfield”: After a decidedly wet fort-
night, Sydney’s weather bureau forecast:
“Cool with occasional showers.” The
result was inevitable —a deluge that did
not even look like easing for 24 hours.
Naturally the old cliche about the
weather and ducks was repeated with a
monotony more maddening than the
rain, but never was it more pointedly
illustrated; while teeming rain-drops
bounced off the surface of the water a
wild duck cruised on the ornamental pool
before the War Memorial in Hyde Park.-
One visitor to Sydney, anyway, was per-
fectly satisfied with the weather.
*> ❖ ❖
“Metralia”; New York has a glut of
lions, and the Bronx Zoo is turning ’em
away. Reason? It’s de rigueur for Man-
hattan plutocrats to hit the Hemingway-
trail hunting the fauna of the African
veldt. And these hunters are always
mailing cub-lions back to New York. In
tycoon-circles it’s a standard joke to
have a lion-on-the-hoof planted in a
friend’s mailbox. A cynical nostril, how-
ever, might smell a motive other than
humor for sending these hungry post-
cards: What other gift could so flaunt
a safari in stay-at-home faces? What
is less ambiguous than a lion?
♦j*
“Mugga Way”: Headache Corner! A
bulletin put out by the U.K. Information
Service, mentioning that record entries
were received at the brewers’ exhibition
in London in the Commonwealth section,
adds that the judges who adjudicated on
home-brews (the British Isles’ product,
presumably, not the kero.-tin variety)
sampled about 20,000 pints of bottled
beer and 60,000 pints of draught. In the
Commonwealth section a Singapore show
scored a gold-medal, but Australia
doesn’t seem to have been placed.
* ❖ ❖
“Mabsout”: An American who has
met several space-explorers from Venus
reports that they had long golden hair,
wore picturesque flowing garments and
spoke a strange tongue. He must be less
crabbed by nature than I am. I’d take
a lot of convincing; demand to see their
passports and current flying-saucer
licences and all the other papers that the
Venusian traveller is no doubt forced to
carry by the Venusian bureaucracy if
Venus is as civilised as they claim. The
Yank states that the Venusians informed
him (telepathically) they had no hostile
intentions towards Earth. Just as well.
Any blokes with long, golden hair and
wearing picturesque flowing garments
“ While you’ve got your chopper handy ”
would have a pretty hard job taking
over in our industrial suburb. And as
for the 3ft. men from Mars that another
observer met —I’d like to see a 3ft. Mar-
tian start telling the hotheads in our
factory what to do. They can’t even stand
the boss ordering them around, and he’s
a good five feet high.
* ❖ ❖
“Tas,”; Don’t think the composer of
“Fair Mac’s’’ song (B. 27/10/’54) is still
alive; the lyric of which began: “These
things shall be: a loftier race than e’er
the world has known shall rise.” It is the
well-known hymn much used in Metho-
dist revivals, and still in their hymn-
book ; composed by the English poet and
litterateur, John Addington Symonds
(1840-93). His critical works on Shelley,
Sir Philip Sidney and Michelangelo were
highly regarded, as were his translations
from the Italian (including the auto-
biography of Cellini). Some of the
prophecies in his fine hymn have been
fulfilled ; others are far from being so:
Nation with nation, land with land,
Unarmed shall live as comrades free;
In every heart and brain shall throb
The pulse of one fraternity....
The hymn is sung to a rousing tune
(“St. Simeon”), probably to produce the
same rousing effect as the “Marseillaise.”
“P.0.M.C.”: Personalised golf-balls
(B. 27/10/’54)? Cottesloe (W.A.) golf-
club anticipated the Yanks by 40 years
with a neat gadget which indelibly
impressed members’ names or initials on
their golf-balls in a matter of seconds.
Some 10 years later, at Branxton (N.S.W.)
I encountered the machine again; but
pills bearing my initials became as
frequently lost, and as infrequently
returned (if found), as those innocent
of the impression. Incidentally, a red ball
had a brief vogue about that time; the
mistaken assumption being that it would
be more easily found.
ijt -tjf
“Dicky”: Though Matilda, that doyen
of ancient vehicles, late of the serried
ranks of London taxis, had carried us
thousands of miles across Europe, she had
an uncanny theatrical sense in that she
always broke down at a crucial moment
or in a conspicuous place. One such
time was when the unpredictable wench
chose to stop in the midst of morning
traffic in one of Rome’s busiest squares.
Cars tooted, messenger-boys stopped
whistling arias, policemen arrived on
bicycles or on foot, blowing whistles,
waving batons and frenziedly shouting us
to “Avanti!” In the background the
mermaids and dolphins of a Bernini foun-
tain disported themselves disinterestedly;
in the midst of it all Matilda stood inex-
plicably immobile. Then the crowds
arrived. Everyone offered to send for a
mechanic, did so, and in no time we dis-
covered we had sent for 15 mechanics
We five girls yelled at the mob in imper-
fect French, impossible Italian and a good
deal of classic. Australian, whilst the
smallest member of our group, a pint-
sized and belligerent damsel known as
Poodle, staved off souvenir-hunters with
the aid of a jack-handle. When a
mechanic did turn up he chatted volubly
in Italian to a companion, then ducked
his head beneath Matilda’s rusted bonnet.
At last he withdrew his head and we
looked into a broad grin and a pair of
blue eyes. “Start her oop now, loove,”
said the broadest, thickest Yorkshire
voice I’ve ever heard.
ANTICIPATIONS
“The British Air Ministry is investigating the
publication by an Air Force pilot of facts about
allegedly secret new aeroplanes.”
When the jet-pilot gives away
Air Force secrets in a book,
His Minister may show dismay
To find them there, where all can look ;
But such disclosures can’t be crimes
In these, our supersonic, times.
Now the sound-barrier is broken
We must revise our “natural” laws:
Words may be heard before they’re
spoken,
A consequence precede its cause.
And secrets thus may be presented
To all before they’ve been invented.
What, when these novel trends get started,
Will be their full effect on man ?
Lovers will first be broken-hearted.
Governments find a long-term plan
Completed long before it’s made ;
And treaties will begin betrayed.
With debts discharged before contracted
There’ll be no more expectant faces
To see stocks rise, or laws enacted.
Or lotteries drawn, or at the races—
Which may improve the human lot;
But, if you think it will, or not.
It really doesn’t matter much
For, as the noon precedes the morn,
The circumstances will be such
We’ll all be dead before we’re born :
And altogether I should say
We’ll find life happier that way.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
THE GHOSTS OF TATTERSALL’S
The ghosts are gone at Tattersall’s where
the poker-tables yawn,
And scattered cards lie sullenly as the
steward sweeps at dawn.
Should you stand at the cardroom’s
frosted door and beg your ears to
hear
There will come a chorus of laughs long
dead, sweet as a cherished year.
Those were the days of master-men who
knew John Roche’s beard,
As young Joe Matthews drew his card
and the routine-flush appeared:
Though Harry Pittar’s grin began to
crease his rugged lips,
Till Harry’s aces, four of them, died on
a pile of chips.
Those were the days when Lionel Bloom
would play on aces-up,
When Bill McDonald, hoarse from the
course, called for a loving-cup,
While Stanton bought a Slimy card and
glared across the floor.
Only to find that Schwartz’s treys
improved from three to four.
They bet like Tysons all their lives, these
men from ring and room;
They’d moan and groan and snarl and
yelp when the cards provoked their
gloom.
They’d grin and cheer and give huzza
when the spots would bless the stake,
But they lived their lives in the
sportsman’s bond of eternal give-
and-take.
The ghosts are laid at Tattersall’s, save
for the ageing few
Who watch the younger men perform in
the cardroom’s modern hue.
They curl their lips at the cries of “gin”
or Rickety Kate’s Jinesse,
And only the solo-players sense their
terrible loneliness.
When honor and friendship are the
words of a club’s most ancient creed.
And a man can borrow what time he s
short and his friends are his friends
in need.
He can think of the cardroom’s pleasant
ghosts if the present sometimes palls
They were mighty ghosts in the cardroom
then, upstairs at Tattersall's.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


TV/fORE news from the international-
courtesy front; as reported from
Paris by Jack Pollard in Sydney
“Daily Telegraph.” The Australian
Rugby League team, with the exception
of two Queenslanders, Bob Banks and
co-manager McMahon, walked-out on
an official reception. The exodus was led
by manager Spencer O’Neill. McMahon,
it seems, protested, at which the urbane
Mr. O’Neill yelled: “I don’t care what
they think. If they’re going to serve
plonk and won’t give us beer we’re
leaving! ” —“Fons.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ping”: The spate of “informed”
newspaper articles opining that the Air
Force’s Neptune anti-submarine aircraft
have made the Navy obsolete must be
raising a grin among the asdic boys. The
learned conclusion is mainly based on the
relative inefficiency of Firefly carrier-
borne aircraft compared with the Nep-
tunes. Facts are, of course, that the new
“Perhaps after seeing this you'll feel prouder of YOUR family .”
Neptune was specifically designed for
A/S work; the old propeller-driven
Firefly as a strike-bomber. It’s more-or-
less mocked-up with A/S equipment till
the Navy takes delivery of its new Gan-
nets, designed, like the Neptunes, for
sub.-hunting. In any case, submarines
can be expected to be found hunting near
convoys. Convoys will be protected by
destroyers and frigates—and, as men-
tioned here earlier, with what the tradi-
tional sub.-hunters now carry, destruction
of an attacking submersible is a
mathematical certainty. Don’t think
Navy men need look-up the jobs-vacant
columns for a while yet.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.A.K.”; It’s good to see Peter Finch
getting leading roles in American films
such as “Elephant Walk,” but surely an
Aussie wouldn’t be frightened to approach
his boss and point out where a mighty
blue is being made? Yet there it was —
unless Yankee directors are too pig-
headed to be told. The realism went out
of the picture for me from the time a
group of Englishmen, exiled in Ceylon,
sang lustily, with English accents:
“ For he’s a jolly good fe-ellow —as
nobody can deny.” When I hear English
or Australian celebrators adopting that
last line and discarding the good old
“And so say all of us” I’ll cease to
squirm at the sight of an English-woman
(in the same film) changing her fork to
the right hand —the way they eat in t
Gahd’s own country.
<j*
“D.G.E.”: Granted that Stephen
Spender is a fine poet, a thoughtful critic
and a pleasant character, but in 1952 he
invented one of the most horrible words
in the English language. Writing in a
pamphlet, he referred to the
politicisation of youth. Cultural freedom!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell” : One of my patients—•
an Old Digger who gives it a nudge—
had been anticipating with much pleasure
the dinner held the other day to mark
the 40th anniversary of the sailing of the
10th Battalion in the Ascanius. On the
way to work, I espied him on the main
highway, looking very ill. Greeted him
with “Did you refloat the ship last
night?” As he swayed he replied, “Nah.
Might as well of, tho’, I couldn’t feel
worse if I had.” As I tucked him up in
bed he muttered, “I didn’t get to the
dinner. I felt too crook.” “I say, old
dear, you must have felt ill,” I ventured.
“Yair,” he sighed, “that's what they’ll all
say! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tonky”: Parson in a Sydney paper
says “There is no evidence that execu-
tions decrease crimes.” Maybe, but I bet
not too many are up before the Beak a
second time.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C. 0.”: Scripting for radio has a
worse pitfall than that “staccato caco-
phony of sound” of “Sig’s” (B. 3/11/’54).
Myself when young did gaily jump (per
script) from bridge of a destroyer to A-
gun on the foc’s’le, then, to give a nicely
rounded picture a ship’s working, a
full deck down to the engine-room. All
perfectly clear—to me. A harassed pro-
ducer pointed out that the audience
would have last heard men speaking on
the bridge; so far as they were con-
cerned (having ears but no eyes) the
scene was still the bridge, spinning tur-
bines regardless. There are several
accepted methods of “bridging” scenes in
radio —by music, fading-out of voices or
footfalls and so on. Wanted, badly, a new
and better method. For radio is with
us for many years; even on the 8.8. C.,
contrary to popular idea, television is on
for only a few hours during the 24.
“Muskeen”: Is “5 G.R.” sure that the
Gurkha Rifles (B. 27 /10/’54) did not
“sedulously follow” the rifle-drill of that
London Territorial battalion, the Post-
office Rifles? There is no such com-
mand as “slope arms” in either the Rifle
Brigade or the King’s Royal Rifle Corps,
which are the rifle-regiments in the Regu-
lar British Army. These units come to
“You Wash , I'll dry.”
the slope from the trail on the command
“march at ease,” and then they can
carry their rifles in any position on the
further command of “march easy.” The
two regiments have other peculiarities.
The precautionary warning before the
command “attention” is not “company,”
“platoon” or “squad,” as the case may be,
but “stand to your front” in all cases.
There is no such rank as “private” ; o.r.s
below the rank of lance-jack are “rifle-
men.” Also, their bayonets are called
swords. All very odd, no doubt, but
indisputably authentic.
❖ ❖
“J. 8.”: Our house was up for sale ;
New Aussie neighbor was improving her
English by spelling out the sale-notice.
The term “26 perches” had her worried.
“But,” she protested, “you will haf many
more perches than that. I sink you will
have at least 40 perches,” We assured
her that was not the case, but she per-
sisted. To settle the argument, I said,
“Well, you come and show me.” Where-
upon she led me under the house (we live
in Brisbane), and, pointing triumphantly
to the stilts upon which the house rested,
said, “Zere! You see! Forty-five
perches, just as I tell you!”
*X* ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: Caldbeck, in Cumber-
land (Eng.), has been commemorating
John Peel, on the hundredth anniversary
of his death. Fifty of his descendants,
with three packs of hounds, met at the
grave to honor him as he would have
wished, but no one appears to have
thought of linking the name of John
Graves to that of the hero of the day.
Yet John Peel would never have
attained his world-wide popularity with-
out the famous song written by Graves.
The song - writer afterwards migrated
to Tasmania ; the remainder of his long
life was spent at Hobart, where his house
still stands. Graves’s headstone in the
old cemetery at Sandy Bay is a model of
brevity. It records merely his name, the
date of his death (August 17, 1886) and
his age (100 years). A terse as well as a
tough generation.
* ❖ ❖
A BROKEN LEG
MY wife, an active woman of 67,
tripped over a carpet and broke her
leg; so I have had an opportunity of
seeing the Victorian hospital system
from within. Otherwise I would have
gone to my grave believing in all the
prejudices I have against Government
departments in general.
To say that I was impressed is putting
it mildly—l was humiliated. Not being
particularly socially - minded myself, I
have been continually astonished at the
evidences of that virtue in a vast regiment
of doctors, surgeons, sisters, nurses and
attendants of all sorts, not excluding the
floor-polishers,- who polish the hospitals
continually from top to bottom. For
two or three months past my wife has
been shuttled between the bush-nursing
hospital which first received her, Royal
Melbourne and an after-care clinic
covering several acres, with hundreds of
patients pouring in and out daily. Some
mind somewhere in the enormous
organisation must be brooding over her
case or why wouldn’t she have long
since been mislaid and forgotten, like
the Prisoner of Chillon?
Every couple of weeks she is carefully
lifted into an ambulance, speeded off
to the Melbourne to be X-rayed and
brought back after a few days with a
report from the honorary surgeon who
performed the operation and who learnt
all about her from the bush-hospital
doctor who learnt all about her from
her private physician; and all the sisters
and the nurses, even the young ones
who’ve just started, know all about her
leg and seem to take a friendly interest
in it —one would imagine that hers was
the only broken leg in existence, whereas
there are hundreds and hundreds of
them, as well as much more complicated
fractures and awful cases coming in
daily, the results of motor-accidents
mostly.
The wards are bright and sunny and
there is something going on in them all
day long—dressings, re-education of
limbs, walking drills and so forth.
Nevertheless, it must be a grim job, and
the astonishing thing is the universal
cheerfulness and smiling efficiency of the
nurses and their unquestioning adherence
to the dictates of the doctors.
My wife has only one criticism to offer.
She has the good fortune to be an artist
and can think about returning to her
painting when her leg has knitted, but
there are old women in the wards, dozens
of them, who have been there for one or
three or even 10 years, who come from
poor homes or broken-up ones and who
have absolutely nothing to look forward
to. They lie like logs, apathetic and
thinking about nothing. They have no
relatives calling on them —or, if they
have, it is obvious by their expressions
that they come, not out of hope but
from duty, and only add to the patient’s
depression. A Salvation Army band
comes and plays on Sundays, and an Arts
and Crafts lady is there to show the
patients how to make baskets or knit
jumpers, but these broken old women
are past caring for expressing themselves
in those ways.
Beyond that the hospital offers
nothing. There ought to be some sort
of cinema-show in every ward, or even
a small theatre where the sort of film-
play that they would normally go to see
could be thrown onto the wall or a screen
every evening— not documentaries or
films designed to do them good. All the
cheerful efficiency in the world won’t
alleviate the depression that comes on
patients in the evenings.
My wife’s broken leg has convinced me
that nursing is one of the few things
that should be socialised and hospitals
ought to be cheerful and gay, not morgue-
like places; and there should be, in
addition, a system of free nursing so that
a really sick and bedridden person could
have the services of a capable nurse in
his own house for nothing. Not all the
sick are in hospitals, by a long chalk. In
almost every suburban home there is
the tragedy of some old relative slowly
dying without proper or with only
begrudged attention.
FENG-SHUI.
MODEST REQUEST
“Art. Gladly forgive. Calls for a celebration.
Bring a cray. Love. Vi.” —Agony ad.
When storm-clouds have lifted.
The lover who's drifted
A way will return with celerity;
Not certain, but hoping
As she-wards he’s loping.
There’ll be no post-mortem asperity.
His joy’s so ecstatic
It makes him pneumatic,
He yields to a sort of sublimity.
A guess you’d be making
That he would be taking
Peace-offerings — that’s magnanimity !
He might buy the lady
{Oh hero!) a cady,
Expensive, but still an atrocity.
Choice orchids—an armful —
French perfume so charmful,
To demonstrate top generosity.
With nylons — oh, rapture!
Her heart he might capture.
And chocolates, ever delectable;
Some exquisite jewel
To mark the renewal
Of love. Vi deemed all these reject able.
In different direction
Ran her predilection :
No gift to improve femininity
By beautification,
But just a crustacean
With flesh of attractive salinity
Provided by Artie.
She’ll make it a party
For two ; and, boy, SHE won’t be slow
with it!
It should be quite cheery.
But, say. Vi—a query :
Have you got the beer that’s to go
with it ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


KEEP in
GOOD
SPIRI TS
(ytloitda
Aon Vila
IVUdSOH,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Henry Mackay Burrell, big, benign
and bushy eyebrowed, takes a couple of
concurrent steps. He becomes rear-
admiral, and gets command of the
Australian Fleet.
• •
Visitors to Obu estate in the Hisiu
area, a few hours by copra-scow up the
coast from Moresby, are accustomed to
finding themselves running a gauntlet of
trick beer-glasses, dancing-dolls and
maybe a false nose or two. Minus his
party pranks and looking a bit awkward
in a business suit in lieu of tropical rig,
islands identity Trevor Bruce—who
shares the manager’s bungalow at Obu
with these lighter items of the Papuan
white-man’s burden —looked in the other
day on his way to New Zealand on
furlough. Maoriland-born, he took to
plantation work close on 20 years ago,
looking after coconut and cacao estates
in New Guinea for Rabaul-based plant-
ing companies. The Pacific war saw
him in the American Red Cross. In
1946 he joined the old British New
Guinea Development Company as reliev-
ing man, doing the rounds of “Bun”
Co.’s Papuan estate before taking over
at Obu.
• •
Elected president of the Radio and
Electrical Retailers’ Association of
N.S.W., Allan Grundy, long experienced
in the game. Chairman of the radio-
electrical section of the Retail Traders’
Association, he is group-manager of
Anthony Horderns’, bossing the firm’s
radio-electrical centre, one of the biggest
of its kind in Australia. Widely
respected in his trade, he has worked
particularly hard to clean-up its bug-
bears of no-deposit on hire-purchase
goods and cut-throat competition. Grows
orchids for relief.
o •
“Horseless H.”: Warren Hitchcock,
ornithologist and biologist (just handed
by the N.T. Administration the long-
range job of surveying the Territory’s
wild-life), first became acquainted with
the birds of the Centre when stationed
there with the A.I.F. in the late scrap,
spending his leisure observing the fauna
and subsequently publishing a paper,
“Birds of the Alice Springs District.”
After studying Japs in New Guinea
jungles, he furthered his scientific train-
ing at Hobart University, and for some
years past has been Curator of Birds
at the National Museum, Melbourne. A
virile chap who doesn’t always view his
birds and mammals from an armchair,
Hitchcock will set up a museum of the
Territory’s wild-life at Alice Springs,
his new headquarters. He reckons his
task in that 950-raile-long domain, even
with the help of Binghi assistants, will
occupy the rest of his active life. Born
at Ashfield (N.S.W.), he’s now 35.
• •
“Fitz”: The Reaper has claimed Harry
Malloch, Worthy Scribe and Trusty Bagman
of Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club for the
past 14 years.
An active little fellow of many parts and a
first-class organiser, Malloch was the first
elected member of the club when it was
formed, and was the first editor of “Bohemia,”
the club’s bright monthly journal: he wrote,
too, a Brief History of the Bread and Cheese
Club, and edited Fellows All: Being the
Chronicles of the Bread and Cheese Club, Mel-
bourne.
Born in Melbourne 71 years ago, he was for
two years office-boy and messenger to Isaac
Isaacs and for seven years managing-clerk to
a law firm before taking to journalism;
reporter on Melbourne “Argus,” special writer
for “Smith’s Weekly,” editor of various trade
journals, and freelance for many Australian
papers, including The Bulletin.
Apart from his association with the Bread
and Cheesers, Malloch took a lively interest in
many other organisations—literary and musical
societies, debating clubs and the City Newsboys’
Society—and. even found time to teach the rising
generation shorthand.
Occasionally he visited Sydney and would
drop into The Bulletin office and yarn about
the' paper’s old Victorian contributors —Ted
Brady, Bernard O’Dowd, Shaw Neilson, Furnley
Maurice and the rest of them.
Dropped in (first visit this way) for
a look at his company’s connections
in Australia and New Zealand, R.
Fleck, chairman of Imperial Chemical
Industries. Like his two predecessors in
the chair (also Glaswegians) Fleck lifted
himself from the floor—an architectural
feature with which he had intimate
contact; he used to sweep them in
a Glasgow University laboratory. At
24 he’d lifted himself to the extent of
having his own research - laboratory,
physical chemist to the West of
Scotland Radium Committee. His
particular interest has been radiological
research on cancer, and he gained his
doctorate with a thesis on an aspect of
the subject. With 1.C.1. for about 30
years, he’s a youngish-looking 65, a
ready grin triumphing over silvery hair.
• •
An honorary colonelcy of his old
regiment, the Victorian Scottish, comes
to Colonel Thomas Page Cook, better
known in the Second A.I.F. as “Cook
of Tobruk.” One-time Royal Marine,
he joined the Australian Instructional
Corps, transferred to the Bth Bn. in 1914,
and to the Indian Army the following
year and served in Egypt, Mesopotamia,
Salonika, Russia, Turkey, Persia and on
the N.-W. Frontier. He rejoined the Vic-
torian Scottish in 1923, was commanding
it at the outbreak of War 11, and, on the
formation of the 6th Division, was
appointed to raise and command the
2/sth Battalion. Operations in the
Western Desert g;ive him 0.8. E.;
Tobruk, where he was Area Comman-
der for the siege, C.B.E. Now R. of 0.,
he horticultures in the ferny Dandenongs,
Victoria.
• •
Presented in jovial mood by Coventry,
Robert Seppelt, appointed president of
the South Australian Winemakers’
Association, is a grandson of the
founder and a director of the firm whose
vineyards and winery are still sited on
the 14,000-odd acres at. Seppeltsfield.
where the first vines were grown 103
years ago. That original Seppelt came
to Australia to grow tobacco ; found the
soil too rich for the weed and planted
the vine instead. He had been forcibly
recruited into Napoleon’s Army which
SEPPELTS
marched to Moscow, and it was 11 years
from when he started his soldiering till
he got back to his home —and caught
the first boat to Australia. Today the
yearly Seppelt output of wine, brandy
and other spirits is measured in millions
of gallons ; and there are three grandsons
in the business and eight more to carry
on later. Robert, 37, is on the council
of the Taxpayers Association of his
State, and (probably another thoughtful
appointment) is cellar - master of
Adelaide’s Bacchus Club.
Caricatured in Canberra before he
left to attend a private session of the
espionage commission in Sydney,
Kenneth Hamilton Bailey has been
Solicitor-Generailing in the political
capital for the past eight years. A
scholarly gentleman who wears his
knowledge modestly, including that of his
speciality, the Constitutional law of
Australia, Bailey is an Old Digger of the
2nd Division Field Artillery, who went
on to Corpus Christ! College, Oxford,
Rhodes man for Victoria in 1918, and
SOLICITOR
returned to Melbourne to hold two
successive professorships at the Uni-
versity, Jurisprudence and Public Law.
In 1937 he assisted in the League of
Nations deliberations, and has attended
several conferences of the post-War-II
counterpart in San Francisco. In 1942
he was co-leader of the Commonwealth
legal team which defended the uniform-
tax law against the States. Born in
Melbourne, he had his 56th birthday the
day following a certain race run there
last week.
• •
Declared elected, Republican Senator
for Massachusetts, Leverett Saltonstall
attended the Bikini business and
sandwiched in a short visit to these parts.
Member of one the oldest and richest
families in Boston, he claims among his
ancestors eight former Governors of
Massachusetts; going back further,
another was Lord Mayor of London in
the time of Queen Bess, another
Cromwell’s Ambassador to Holland.
• •
John Baalman’s first literary attempts
took the form of Bulletin pars, written
on Gallipoli in 1915 within pen-flick of
Johnny Turk ; his latest, Outline of Law
in Australia, is about to enter its second
edition. A survey draughtsman in the
N.S.W. Lands Titles Office before War I,
he went away with the 13th Battalion.
From Gallip. he went to France on Corps
H.Q. staff under Brudenell White,
switched to R.F.C. in 1916, was a fighter-
pilot in Nieuports, then, in turn, ferry-
pilot, test-pilot and back to fighters again
in time to be demobbed at Cologne at the
war’s end. Civvy life found him back at
Sydney L.T.0., qualifying as a con-
veyancer and publishing Lands Titles
Office Practice, still a “must” for N.S.W.
country solicitors. Now qualified as a
solicitor and barrister, he lately got back
from Singapore, whither he was invited to
advise on the installation of the Torrens-
title system in those parts. His Com-
mentary on the Torrens System was
doubtless responsible for the invitation.
Still at the L.T.0., Baalman is executive
member of the Property Law Revision
Committee.
• •
“Waddlin’ Willie”: In Australia on
another flying visit, Volkswagen export-
chief Baron Klaus von Oertzen, former
War I flying ace, close friend of
Richthofen, and still handing round
cigarettes from the case Richthofen auto-
graphed at Cambrai a few weeks before
his death. A naturalised Britisher,
Oertzen lives in Johannesburg these days,
but is rarely home ; last year he logged
160,000 flying miles, mainly between
Africa, Germany, Asia, the Far East
and New Zealand. He wasn’t always
a passenger. Once over the English
Channel, single-seater fighter, he ran out
of petrol—as a Royal Flying Corps
scout-plane dived on his tail. Helpless,
Oertzen waved to his foe, and was more
than a little surprised to see said foe
wave back before clearing out for the
English coast. After the war Oertzen
began a search for his chivalrous enemy ;
found him, through the War Office, a
top executive in an insurance company.
And found that he’d lived to fly another
day because the R.F.C. man’s machine-
gun had jammed as he made his dive.
Today Oertzen supervises the vast
market of a German motor-combine
producing 1000 cars a day, in a mile-long
factory at Wolfsburg, built from bombed
ruins in 12 months.
• •
“F.”: Australia has too few competent
dramatists to be able to afford to lose
Max Afford, passed on at 48 in Sydney.
A South Australian, Afford was for five
years a special writer for Adelaide “News
and Mail.” While still the right side of
30 he wrote the words and lyrics for an
A.B.C. prize-winning operetta, “Pas de
Six,” and in the following year (1936)
won an A.B.C. play-competition with
“Merry-go-Round,” and with “Colonel
Light” topped the list in another play-
competition to commemorate the
centenary of his native State. Thereafter
he rocketed into the ranks of this
country’s leading radio-dramatists, and a
multitude of listeners have been enter-
tained by his radio-plays and -serials.
Afford also wrote for the flesh-and-blood
theatre. The Independent presented his
“Sleep No More,” and J. C. Williamson
put on “Lady in Danger,” which also
had a New York run. Other stage-plays
were “Dark Enchantment” and “Mischief
in the Air.” When not engaged upon
plays and radio-scripts Afford busied
himself with detective novels. Five of
them got between covers, and exciting
reading they are. He was with the A.B.C.
Drama and Features Department at the
end.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 53, Herbert
Bridgman, for years chief color-cameraman of
the National Film Unit, A Londoner, in New
Zealand since 1920, he filmed the visit of the
Duke and Duchess of York in 1927, also the
recent Royal tour and directed the film-feature
“One Hundred Crowded Years,” dealing with
the Dominion’s centennial.
At Sandringham (Vic.), at 85, Ernest Lewis
McCaugfaan, who landed at then little-known
Esperance Bay (W.A.) in 1893 and, overlanding
north, was in the first party to discover the
Norseman goldfield. In the roaring days at
Kalgoorlie he knew intimately Paddy Hannan,
Lord Fingal (of the Londonderry) and Hoover
(manager of the Ivanhoe mine, later U.S. Presi-
dent). His father, who owned Wantwood
station on the Mataura River (N.Z.), where
E.L. was reared, was first member for South-
land and was in the N.Z. Ministry. A cham-
pion amateur boxer in his day, E.L. was one
of Victoria’s oldest ocean yachtsmen, sailing
across Bass Strait in his cutter Winona as far
back as 1889. In 1905 he sailed the 80-ton
ketch Centurion (which he built at Erina Creek,
N.S.W.) to the British Solomons to prospect
for gold. His last vessel was the cutter Ronda,
launched in 1922 at Hobart and built to reach
tin-leases he had at Cox’s Bight, near Port
Davey on Tasmania’s rugged, then-uninhabited
sou’-west coast, With the 10th Light Horse in
War I, he was a life-member of the V.R.C.
At 54, Stanley Nairn Houston, known wher-
ever woolmen gather. With Dalgety’s for more
than 30 years, the last 10 as senior wool-expert,
he was sent by the Commonwealth Government
as Australian representative to the New York
World Fair in 1939, his responsibility the Aus-
tralian wool-exhibit. Since leaving Dalgety’s in
1949 he had represented wool-interests in
Tasmania and Ipswich (Q.).
In London, at 81, Professor James Peter Hill,
renowned for his work on the embryology of
the platypus and echidna, and early in the
century Lecturer in Embryology at Sydney Uni-
versity. He left in 1906 to take the Chair of
Zoology and Comparative Anatomy at London
University College, and in 1921 was appointed
to a specially created Chair of Embryology and
Histology at the same institution. A Scot from
Edinburgh University, he held the Mueller
Medal and the Darwin Medal of the Royal
Society, and was an honorary member of the
Royal Society of N.S.W.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), William Dow, general-
manager of the Otago “Daily Times.” With
the company 54 years (except for a break
against the Kaiser), he had been secretary of
the New Zealand section of the Empire Press
Union and a director of the N,Z. Press Asso-
ciation.


THE TALL, DARK MAN


ABORIGINALITIES
T’M prepared to put my hand on the
Good Book about this. Was out
fishing with a mate, who saw a water-
goanna across the creek lying on
an overhanging limb. He wanted to try
his marksmanship on it, but I persuaded
him to spare the critter. Next weekend
we were there again—goanna, too —
when my cork drifted down near the go.
and the hook caught on a snag. As it
bobbed the go. jumped in, and, swim-
ming upstream, grabbed the cork and
released the hook. Thus did he wipe out
his debt to me. —“J.E.W,”
* * * *
“Uramao”; In the stomach of a groper
hauled up in Cook Strait (N.Z.)
was found an angler-fish, whose
habitat is between 900 and 1000
fathoms. The queer fellow with the
luminous bulb and the rod on its head
is inky-black. Luckily the groper must
have swallowed it whole and only a
little time before it was caught. The
Dominion Museum, Wellington, is doing
the honors with the rare specimen of one
of the sea’s most evasive denizens.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: Struck a Sydney bloke
who was delighted that good rains were
falling in the country. “My line’s been
dead crook lately, but in about three
“It certainly is NOT Africa !”
or four weeks she’ll be at her peak
again,” he informed me. Asked him
what his game was, and got the reply
that he was a rabbit-oh; the drought
had knocked him to leg—very few
bunnies coming down, and those pretty
poor; even the big export firms hadn’t
been able to get enough to keep their
skinners working more than a couple of
days a week. But now the does would
be breeding like wildfire ; within a month
the back-country would be overrun with
bunnies. Happy days were here again.
Most decidedly. But I know a lot of
rural blokes who won’t be so delighted
at such a glorious prospect.
* * ♦ «
“Salmon Gums”: What’s all this about
emus and kangaroos having different
names in various native dialects? Like
being surprised at dissimilarities in French
and English. Native tribes have different
languages, so naturally animal names
vary. Take some of the better-known
birds. The tawny frogmouth was toywee,
duleer, gambigorn, cumdine and combiac
in just a few Westralian districts; the
sacred kingfisher was perina and kun-
jinuk; the bee-eater was berulberul,
beeroobeeroolong, berinberin and perin-
bo. And so on. Quite a lot of natives
could speak two or three dialects, but
the differences between them were very
real, as witness the respect in which her
white friends held an intelligent native
woman who mastered 14 dialects. To do
that she had to break the strict tribal
law that each child was to speak only the
language of its father. The only exemp-
tion was that granted to a woman who
was of a different tribe from her husband.
She had to use her husband’s dialect
when speaking to their children, but she
spoke her own tongue when speaking
to her husband. That accounts for the
purity of the dialects.
“Snodger”: Many stock-horses have a
preference for working one wing
of the mob. Given it, they
will perform their work amiably and
intelligently, but on the other side
they’ll be irritable and frustrated. Many
camp-horses show the same whims and
fancies. They like to take a beast out
on a certain “tack,” working the other
side efficiently enough but always giving
the impression that it is being done
under protest.
« * * «
“Bass”: In a murder-trial at Alice
Springs a witness described a “sorrow
ceremony” in which natives inflict
wounds on each other to induce signs of
grief for a dead friend. That rite, if you
can call it such, typifies one of the most
peculiar traits in our aborigines; their
inability to express grief which is
undoubtedly felt. A native mother or
father whose child is lying ill in a mission-
hospital will haunt its bedside or hang
around the building, obviously, to those
who know natives, in the throes of a
profound grief; but they’ll show none
of the signs which we usually associate
with sorrow. One native mother whose
sick child had been brought in from the
bush insisted on sleeping beside its bed,
although her bush-bred claustrophobia
was so intense that a prolonged stay
within walls was agony to her. But her
grief was dumb and expressionless. Often
a native who has suffered a bereavement
will strike himself over the head or body
with a stick to make himself a “sorry
fella,” so that he can show the grief
he feels. But why can’t he show it
normally? His Spartan upbringing, or
some belief to which he has been
religiously educated, may be responsible,
but that would induce a reluctance to
show sorrow, whereas there’s very
obviously a desire, as expressed in the
“sorrow ceremony.” Moreover, natives
are fully capable of showing other
emotions such as fear or anger, and a gin
in a rage is a holy terror. Why, then,
should their sorrow be expressionless?
♦ * * *
“Horseshoe Bar”: Letting the mother
choose the pick of the litter (B.
20/10/’54)? My cobber reverses the
procedure. The young pups are taken a
little way from the chained mother and
set down. He reckons that the one with
“Could I have a second opinion ?”
the most promising brain is the pup who
finds his way swiftly back to the bowser.
* * * *
“Dicky”: A lot of old bushmen
wouldn’t share the ancient Germans’
feelings (B. 20/10/’54) about grey horses.
Greys and creams have long been prized
for their hardiness; some scientists
have suggested that their heat-resist-
ance has something to do with skin-
pigmentation. However, there is a super-
stition to counteract the one mentioned
by “Narumee”; if you see three
greys, provided you spit and put
a cross on the toe of your boots after
seeing each one, a wish you make
will be granted. Was it merely for
showiness, or because of some connec-
tion with Odin, that the old conquerors
preferred to ride into a captured city
astride a grey charger? Napoleon and
Joan of Arc both fancied it as a color ;
maybe their horses had a spot of
Percheron in them. I’d guess that the
reason a horse with one white foot is
thought lucky in Cornwall lies in
the old English rhyme “One white foot,
buy a horse, two white feet, try a horse,
three white feet, look about him, four
white feet, go without him.” Why that
should be, 1 don’t know, unless it is that
the white hoof seems softer and more
easily quartered than the darker one, and
white legs always seem the first to pick
up manges and mites.
* * * *
“Raineses”: “H.A.L.’s” statement (B.
6/10/’54) that the .38 bullet is not iden-
tical with the .380 can be given unde-
niable corroboration. In World War I
Britain took .303 ammo from the U.S.
Aftdr the first deliveries all factories
involved were halted overnight until they
were supplied with and used standard
British .303 gauges. Thereafter .303 and
.3030 became identical.
* * * ♦
“Villefair”: The fascinating thing
about bird-life is that you never really
know fully a bird’s habits —you only think
you do. For as long as I can remember
I’ve had the opportunity of observing the
ordinary swallow, but I had never seen
one settle on the ground, let along walk,
run or hop. Even when gathering pise
for its nest the bird seems to scoop the
mud up in flight and wets it to the right
consistency by dunking the beakful while
skimming over a sheet of water. Lately,
sitting on a quiet beach, I saw a swallow
run out from behind an adjacent sand-
hillock, and dive its beak into the sand,
apparently to pick up a wog of some sort.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Further to that Service
Dept, query (B. 22/9/’54) re the red-
whiskered bulbul: there are three other
members of the clan where that cheer-
ful pest came from—the red-vented, the
white-cheeked and the white-browed. The
first two have tufted heads, but nothing
like the jaunty crest worn by the bird
with which Sydney gardeners are
afflicted. The white-browed is the plain-
est; just olive-brown, looking rather like
a small drab thrush; and, as could be
expected, he is usually found in drab
country. The white-cheeked has a vivid
yellow vent —evidently a favored area
for decoration amongst bulbuls and man-
drils —and the marking for which he is
named is very much like patch
on our own white-cheeked honeyeater.
I like the red-vented best; a smoky-
brown fellow with scaly markings on the
breast and back, and vivid crimson under
the tail —the red-whiskered also has a
red vent. A pair of the brown birds were
nesting just above our camp at a little
place called Dwelah, just south of Man-
dalay, and took no notice of our move-
ments a couple of feet below. Or maybe
they did ; but in a land where a common
myna would be snapped up for the pot
the bulbuls perhaps reckoned there was
nothing to fear from the two Australians
who were content merely to watch them
from such short range.
DARK AILEEN
QUEENSLAND.
Moonlight gleams,
The river glistens.
Aileen steals to the door
And listens.
Only the wind
Drifting by;
And, far and lonely,
A plover’s cry.
No key
Turns in the lock.
No voice sounds
But the whispering clock.
Vainly, vainly
Her candles burn —
Only in dreams
Do the dead return.
Sleep, Dark Aileen,
Deep seas cover
The pale bones
That were your lover.
Sleep, Aileen,
As he is sleeping;
Seas are unmoved
By women weeping!
Sleep, Dark Aileen,
On your cold pillow;
Gently nightwinds
Stir the willow;
Softly the branches
Move and shiver,
The moon sets;
Still is the river.
W. N. SCOTT.
PLAITING A STOCKWHIP
'T'HERE are two ways to cut a ’roo-hide
*■ for plaiting a stockwhip. One is to
slice straight into it, guided by years of
experience, as Old Tom did (B. 15/9/’54).
The other is to buy a whip made by an
acknowledged master, unplait it, measure
lengths and widths of thongs, deduct a
tenth of all lengths and add a trifle to
widths to allow for stretching, and pre-
pare a list of figures as a guide. I had
one once but it’s been lost. You used
only the skin of a blue doe ’roo, tanned
with wattle-bark.
You began by trimming it into an oval
shape. Then you cut round and round
it to produce a long, unbroken strip of
leather. It started |in. wide and worked
up to That was for the belly.
Then, for some 6in., you widened
gradually to l\\n. and cut a strip
nearly twice as long as the first part,
working down gradually to |in. again. At
the finish, all you had left of the hide
was a circular piece some six inches
across, thus putting the best centre-leather
into the part of the lash which had the
most wear —the fall.
Now you put the strip out overnight
in the dew and in the morning you
stretched it between two posts in the
shade. This took the spiral out of it.
After this you cut it into strands. You
began at the tip of what was to be the
belly and cut it into four, increasing this
to six and then eight strands. You left
the widening part 6in. long, and
started cutting again, first into 16 strands,
then down through 12, 8 and 6 to 4.
The belly was plaited with a piece of
solid, round and tapering leather as its
core. Then the uncut portion was doubled
to form the keeper, and the outer layer
was plaited over the outside of the belly.
Of course, the whip was thinner at
the keeper than it was some two or
three feet down the lash ; this was partly
due to the shape of the solid core and
partly because you had given each strand
a little further stretching at its upper end
before plaiting. Faults to beware of were
loose plaiting, the tendency of the pattern
in the plait to spiral because you pulled
harder with your right hand than your
left, and lumps where you dropped out
several strands as the lash grew thinner.
The reduction from six to four strand'!
at the start of the fall was particularly
liable to be lumpy unless you had mas-
tered the knack. It used to take me about
20 hours to turn out a 9ft 16-plait
whip. Experts would make three or tour
of them in an eight-hour day.
BOGADUCK.


Til I CY
KEROS LIME ■ ■ V PRESSUR
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
''' ‘ i inable from all Good Hardware Stores
ughout Australia. In case of difficulty
e for name of your nearest Stockist to:
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Caps
off
X.
to
*
Today’s most
popular petrol
New, higher-octane C.O.R contains
BP 08 and ‘a little something
others haven’t got’. BP 08 is the
latest, SAFEST and most effective
solution to the problem of interior
engine care, developed by Anglo-
Iranian Oil Company scientists and
petroleum technologists at their
world - renowned Sunbury - on -
Thames Research Station.
and its
‘Good
Companion' . . .
f
d
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD (Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd)
— <~'>r.nl onn .
LAST wish of a Queensland stud-
master was that a stone obelisk be
erected over his ashes out in the yard,
where the horses would be all about
him. To a suggestion that it might be
a good idea to put up a fence round
the stone to keep the horses from
rubbing against it, the old man replied
that if a fence was put up he’d come
back and haunt the place. The family
carried out his request, and now the
stone obelisk is being used as a rubbing-
post by the thoroughbreds he loved so
much.—“J.B.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: My oracle just em-
phatically told me the wild turkey is the
heaviest Australian bird on the wing. I
don’t believe him. s My pick is the
brolga. Do I hear d protest from a
pelican, or is it a big sea-bird? Come ii\
spinners.
♦ * * *
“Nolan”: This month at Rosevears,
on the west bank of Tassie’s Tamar
River, there will be unveiled a plaque
to commemorate the historic launching
of the schooner Rebecca, in which John
Batman sailed from Launceston to
nominate the site on which Melbourne
now stands. The plaque has been
donated as a contribution to the Apple
Isle’s sesquicentenary year by 86-year-old
Victor Plummer, whose grandfather,
Captain Plummer, laid the keel of the
Rebecca at Rosevears 120 years ago.
The schooner was intended for the trade
between Sydney and Tasmania, but Capt.
Plummer yielded to a good offer made
by Batman. Later John Pascoe Fawkner
was also to sail from Launceston to land
practically at Batman’s chosen spot.
When Batman’s purchase of land from
the Yarra natives was disallowed,
Fawkner proclaimed himself as the
founder of Melbourne. It’s an old dis-
pute. But whether the rightful founder
be Batman or Fawkner, Launceston still
claims the distinction of being the
“parent” of the Yarraside city.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Abydos and Wood-
stock, two stations about 100 miles south
from Port Hedland, in nor’-Westralia,
once carried about 30,000 sheep between
them. When they were abandoned in
1945 they were running less than a tenth
of that number, and the W.A. Govern-
ment has turned them into research-
stations to try to find out why. It’s
spinifex-country, bordering a semi-desert
which seems to be advancing yearly, just
as the Sahara does along its frontiers.
There’s an obvious and logical reason for
the country’s decline —overstocking by
both sheep and kangaroos, with an in-
creasing army of goats, donkeys and
camels. These have eaten out the natural
herbage and the country doesn’t get a
chance to recuperate. But there could
be another reason. In his monumental
Geology of the Commonwealth, Edge-
worth David cites one prominent geologist
“Will you drop this basket of home-made jams off at Smith's when
you've finished your run , postie?"
with a theory that the desert salt-lakes
are migrating westward, the movement
being caused by wind and sand-blast
action. That almost certainly envisages
an extension of desert, which would be
helped by winds in the opposite direction
carrying salt-spray inland. This cyclic
salt is considered a major cause in the
formation of the salt-lakes, and if these
two actions are backed up by continued
overstocking the movement will be
accelerated. The situation is already
becoming grim. The sheep population
of the north-west has declined from
five million to fewer than three million
in the last quarter-century.
“Spin”: On some parts of W.A.’s
coastal plains north of Perth there are
stretches of “wind deserts” —completely
bare patches a few miles long and a mile
or so wide. They’re different from the
ordinary beach sand-dunes, as they
were obviously once timbered with
banksia and stunted shrubs, but the wind
and the sand have cut the vegetation
to pieces and completely denuded the soil.
There seems to be no logical reason why
these patches should have suffered while
the surrounding plain is still well covered,
unless it’s that some topographical freak
diverts the wind and concentrates its
force along a narrow strip. Looking at
such a patch you can visualise deserts
being made.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Wippegong” (B. 27/10/’54)
is right when he says that the rock-
warbler builds its nest out of the reach
of rain, but wrong in assuming this means
the little bird always has a dry domicile.
It builds mostly in caves, wet ones
for preference. I have found nests
saturated with water that had dripped
from the cave-roof. Seeing that wet
caves are usually darker than dry ones,
it may be that, in choosing the former
as a home-site, the rock-warbler is
merely sacrificing comfort for safety.
* * * *
“Sackville”; Modern science has
produced a more facile aid to arson than
the broken-bottle with a wax-match
under it (B. 20/10/’54). It was a shrewd
rogue who first cashed-in on the pro-
pensity of phosphorus to burst into
flames when thoroughly dry. With a
crop showing signs of a very poor yield
he conceived a bright idea for salvaging
a good portion of the hoped-for return.
Accordingly a disastrous fire broke out
and destroyed the whole crop. He, having
left for the city several days before, was
unable to fight the fire ; he was also
obviously guiltless of any charges of
incendiarism that suspicious minds might
have been inclined to submit. But these
days insurance - companies are nasty,
distrustful institutions, and a man with
a waterproof alibi is more likely to draw
a minute inspection to his burnt crop
than a bloke right on the spot when the
fire started. Reminds me of the
insurance-agent who asked the cocky
which he wanted to insure against: fire
or hail. And the cocky’s answer: “Fire,
o’ course —phosphorus won’t start a
hailstorm.”
* * * *
“A.C.”: If water first shrinks and then
expands on freezing, what makes “Bass”
(B, 27/10/’54) think the melting of the
ice at the Poles would cause the world’s
low-lying land-masses to become flooded?
Wouldn’t the water from the ice replace
the ice? The result would then,
theoretically, be a lowering of the sea-
level everywhere, and, the ice at the Poles
being fresh and not salt, the sea-water,
by currents and osmosis, would eventually
become less salty than at present.
* * * *
“C.J.”: Since I wrote about the
suspected permanent low-pressure area
in the Rockefeller Mountains of
Antarctica (B. 11/8/’54) I’ve read a
“National Geographic Magazine” article
on Admiral Byrd’s magnificently
conceived Operation High-jump. The
Americans have already been over-
land to the Rockefeller Plateau, using
16-ton amphibious tractors towing huge
wooden sledges loaded with fuel and
food-supplies that were placed in depots
for use by succeeding parties. The huge
machines exerted tremendous ground-
pressure, but their speed and the width
of their tracks saved th6m from breaking
through thinly covered crevasses, except
once when a crevasse was safely
straddled. They averaged seven m.p.h.
through all weathers, when dog-teams
would find progress impossible. Thirteen
ships and 4000 men went south. Air-
craft —DC3’s —took off from carriers
well north of the pack-ice and flew to
the base-camp at the Bay of Whales, then
headed off on mapping expeditions,
covering more territory in a day than
land-surveys could do in a year. Also,
aircraft from seaplane-tenders made 35
photographic flights, covering almost the
whole of the Antarctic continent’s coast-
line, including Macßobertson Land,
where the Australian expedition begins a
land-survey this year. Incidentally, a
party visited Scott’s old camp at
McMurdo Sound, and found food and
other materials in first-class condition, as
though the place had been abandoned
only a few weeks instead of 43 years.
WET DAY LAMENT
The drenching rain comes down and
falls
All day in goodly measure.
And snails in their shell overalls
Find the wet day a treasure;
Upon the green the blackbirds hop
And play the sweetest notes;
Out in the rain the thrushes stop
And pour song from their throats
While 1 inside just stand and stare,
Too wet to go out anywhere
Without top-coat, and gamp as well;
Poorly such days man weathers —
Oh, had 1 but a snail’s hard shell,
Or been born with feathers!
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


INVESTORS!
ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST COMPANIES
offers an opportunity for Investors to purchase selected freehold, finance
the erection thereon of buildings to standard plans and lease same for long
term to the company, at attractive rental, for operation in its retail trade.
Each unit will cost from £lO,OOO to £15,000, but it is possible to finance
on less than this.
«
An officer of the Company will call and explain the plan in detail to you,
and to your legal or financial advisers.
Apply Box 64, P. 0., George Street North, Sydney.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Property Jackpots
TWO hard but obviously bulg-
-*• ing jackpots cracked during
recent weeks in Sydney.
The first was Washington H.
Soul, the chain-store chemist. It
had made a bonus-issue equal to
5 p.c. on capital in 1948, but
that was only tantalising to share-
holders who had been dazzled
by the co.’s profit and div. record
since the previous worth-while
bonus-issue (two for five, in
March, 1940). The latest gift-
giving is in the ratio of one-for-
two, and will send paid capital up
to around £700,000.
Most of the 1940 bonus was
provided from the writing-up of
freeholds. The source of the
present gift is the same,
and it is interesting to note
that the co. runs over 40
pharmacies in Sydney and
suburbs and Newcastle, and
that many of the shops are free-
hold. Though the co. was
formed in 1903 to take over an
old pharmaceutical business of
the same name, and it owned
freeholds then, the only previous
writing-up for the purposes of
capitalisation was that in 1940,
though the sale of Denison
House (George-street) to Mc-
Dowell’s in 1927 brought in a
profit of £52,671.
Following the gift-giving of
1940 the 15 p.c. div.-rate
faltered only momentarily; it
was steady from 1941 up till
now, even though visible profits
were little more than the 15 p.c.
requirement for three years after
the distribution. The co. has a
fat wad of reserved profits in
cash, bonds, etc., which makes
almost full distribution of current
profits possible, especially as
earnings have a habit of running
ahead of div.-requirements after
a few years. The rate of 1952-53
profits would cover 15 p.c. on the
bonus-increased capital.
The second of the jackpots to
go was Tooth’s. Here the bonus-
issue is again two for one, and
again the proceeds are to come
from a revaluation of assets. As
has been emphasised here during
the past year, when Tooth scrip
was much cheaper, the book-
value of Tooth’s brewery free-
holds and hotel properties is
extremely low at present-day
valuations. Total fixed assets
figured in the books at £7.9
million at September 30, 1953,
and the present bonus-issue will
call for an addition of £3,091,329
to that figure and to capital,
which will rise to £9,273,986.
Tooth’s board has indicated that
almost no immediate increase in
the total div.-distribution will
take place. Against a present
16 p.c. div., the new rate will be
11 p.c., which will work out at
16j p.c. on the pre-bonus capital.
At the time of the Royal Com-
mission on Liquor Laws, it was
disclosed that Tooth’s owned 628
hotel freeholds (332 in the
Sydney metropolitan area, 110
in and around Newcastle, and
186 in the country). It also
owned 85 leaseholds. Altogether
Tooth’s had 1003 tied houses.
Tooth’s paid capital, steady at
£900,000 till 1910, now stands at
£6,182,659. Of the increase,
£2,150,097 is represented by
bonus scrip (the last lot being
£485,622 in 1929), the balance
being for cash or assets acquired.
The last issue for cash was at
par (one for 10) in 1936. Of the
£4,137,935 of reserves shown in
the balance-sheet at 30/9/’53,
£2,219,909 represented disclosure
of contingency reserves and the
like in 1947.
The Tooth announcement was
almost fully anticipated by the
sharemarket. Though there was
a momentary upward surge
immediately, the price has come
back to around the highest level
established during the period
prior to the announcement.
There may be more bonus-
issues to come from old-
established companies with free-
holds in the books at far below
present-day values. Though in
many cases restrictive legislation
and economic controls make it
impossible for the businesses
concerned to employ their
premises in a way that will show
a return in profit commensurate
with present-day property-values,
there will be a continuing
pressure to revalue premises.
Because of take-over bids by
property-speculators in Britain
(speculators who proposed, say,
to pay a high price for the free-
hold of a poorly paying theatre
with the idea of turning it into
a block of remunerative office-
suites) there has been a flush of
property-revaluations in and
around London. This revalua-
tion, of course, has not made it
any easier to earn profits. But it
does have the effect of putting
asset-values in a truer light, and
it puts the whip upon manage-
ments to produce increased
profits that will measure up to
the new capitalisations. Many
10 p.c. dividends today do not
represent 5 p.c. on the true
capital of the companies con-
cerned. And while it is a fact
that assets in a business are
worth only what they will earn,
it is also possible that they can
be made to earn more by a little
all-round stirring-up.
If Sydney and Melbourne have
to rebuild to any extent, the cost
of new premises will stand out in
sharp contrast to present book-
values. As things are now,
the city tends to become a
preserve of businesses that have
held property since before the
war. Apart from building
problems, it would be almost
economically impossible for a
new concern to pay present-day
costs for premises and to func-
tion successfully against the old-
timers. Unless, that is, it showed
a new brand of service and
efficiency.
Oil and Uranium
With Rough Range No. 4
another “dry hole” —salt-water
was the only fluid encountered
in the sand at 3728 ft.—and the
gas present being of no sig-
nificance, Rough Range No. 5
has been sited at 2034 ft. west
of . the No. 1 well.
The Wapet board must now
believe that the “pool” en-
THE WAPET DRILLING-RIG at Shothole Canyon, Cape Range
(W.A.). At the weekend the hole was down to 5691ft. with minor
oil-shows. In this picture the drill-pipe is seen stacked in sections
alongside the rig. The drill-pipe is lowered into the hole in
connected sections and is the means by which power is trans-
mitted to the drilling-bit. The bit can be hauled up by the
same means.
countered in No. 1 at 3605 ft. is
of small dimensions, the “pro-
ducer”-wells (which really have
been exploratory) drawing in
closer to the original “strike.”
Following the disappoint-
ment at No. 4, the shares in the
Ampol companies dropped
sharply.
No. 1 well was down to
11,580 ft. on November 2, while
at Cape Range the bit was at
5691 ft. Below 5640 ft. the for-
mations (fractured siltstone)
have given minor indications of
oil and gas.
Drilling has begun at Grant
Range (in the Kimberleys).
In Queensland, Australasian
Oil Exploration’s bore at Reid’s
Dome has reached 4222 ft. Be-
tween 4132 ft. and 4137 ft. light
sandstone was encountered,
“with a smell of petroliferous
gas.” There has also been some
mention of traces of “green
oil.”
The drill at Reid’s Dome is
reaching an interesting stage,
inasmuch as basement rock is
usually encountered in Queens-
land between 3000 ft. and 5000 ft.
It was because of the shallow
basement that Shell (Queens-
land), Ltd., abandoned its search
in the State a few years back.
Boring of the A.O.E. Mary
Kathleen uranium leases in the
Mt, Isa-Cloncurry area has
begun.
Uranium Development shares
have strengthened following the
striking of the main lode in a
crosscut 40ft. from the main
shaft at the 111 ft. level on its
Adelaide River (N.T.) property.
The ore is said to be high-grade,
showing torbemite and “prob-
able pitchblende.” The full
width of the body at this level
has not been determined. A bulk
sample of 65 tons of ore delivered
at Rum Jungle has been valued
at £7l a ton. A total of 424
tons of ore has been sent to Rum
Jungle. The co. has an issue of
1,924,175 shares fully-paid to
2s. 6d. The market prices them
at 12s. 6d.
“Nauc” shares have continued
to ease in market favor. They
have been selling at 13s.
Rough Range
L. Owen writes: The failure
of Rough Range No. 4 well to
strike oil at an horizon corres-
ponding to that from which
Rough Range No. 1 drew 500
barrels of waxy crude petroleum
at just below 3600 ft. is disap-
pointing, particularly as No. 4
well was sited only 560yds.
south of the discovery-well.
The No. 1 oil, however, had
obviously migrated, and suffered
micro-filtration in the process,
over a considerable distance
through very restricted channels.
Furthermore, it had become
inspissated by exposure to the
Carboniferous atmosphere just
prior to the laying-down of the
sandstones in which it was
preserved.
This inspissatiqn prevented it
from flowing as a liquid at
ordinary temperatures, and a
limited area of impregnated
sands was, therefore, to be
anticipated.
That structural complexities
were to be expected at depth
in the Exmouth Gulf area was
obvious from Clapp’s and
Reeves’ work prior to 1948.
There is thus no adequate
reason for despondency at the
failure of wells Nos. 2, 3 and 4
to produce oil. The locations
would have been very different
had the field and seismic work
been directed principally to the
elucidation of the involved geo-
logical history of the Carnarvon
region rather than to a search
for favorable structures and
thick marine deposits.
Each well drilled has, of
course, added its quota to the
meagre knowledge of the de-
tailed geological history of the
Carnarvon region, and the highly
qualified oil-geologists in charge
of the geological side of opera-
tions will, doubtless, have taken
full advantage of the additional
information now available.
Maoriland Wages Up
By all standards, most of all
those of the post-war decade, the
New Zealand Arbitration Court’s
order for a general wage-rise—
the seventh of N.Z.’s peace-time
prosperity era —is a surprisingly
modest one. It’s not only the
smallest in the aggregate, but
still more in the percentage, and
is dated forwards, instead of, like
some others, backwards. As the
court says, “the practical effect
is to increase gross minimum
rates by 2.73 p.c., with a


In iJtc
Once, in Detroit, over luncheon with the famous
American car designer and manufacturer, Mr. Henry
Ford I, I mentioned to him work I had done on
“torque converters” in Germany and England.
I told him I had lately introduced this method
of power transmission to Australia in Railroad Diesels
and Diesel passenger-carrying vehicles.
Henry Ford asked me, “How does it work?” I
explained that it was based on Kinetic energy, a type
of “fluid-drive” employing the principle of
motive-energy with motion in relation to force, or
motion as affected by pervading force something
like influence in the affairs of men.
Looking back now, I believe that the comparison
I gave him was apt, except that good INFLUENCE
has more than a powering quality, and is more
enduring than any machine.
Let us apply the simile to Australia. This country
can be likened to a vast mechanism, generating its
own increasing power. And that power is pervaded
by the influence its people can bring to the national
task, and to one another.
The effect of our collective energy is going to
decide the power rating of Australia in the world.
I have .always looked upon Teaching as the
twin of Influence.
Give us worthy teachers, varying perhaps in then-
degrees of scholarship, but sincere in their work of
“leading out” the minds of our youth —for that
is what “education” means in its Latin derivation and
we have the source from which the mental and moral
strength of Australia is drawn.
In the schools, even more so in the homes, the
fresh power potential of the nation is being built up.
Our youth are the “young generation” in more
senses than one.
What has this to do with “torque converters”
for traction? Just this: Power transmitted by the
human intellect and human actions can have a
force beyond reckoning, as we see in the simple
incident I have related.
Years have passed, the great car designer is gone,
but the thoughts he prompted are reflected in what
has been written here.
In his conversations with me he exerted an
influence that spread beyond his lifetime.
3*5
I
m
K 8?
Pi/of offers
choice of routes
The hands of a wartime "Catalina” pilot, who among
other perilous missions dropped commandos into
enemy territory, now help peace-time travellers with
their holiday and business travel bookings. As a
travel officer in the Bank of New South Wales, this
former Squadron-Leader still helps others to travel
trouble-free—by arranging land, sea, and air bookings,
hotel accommodation, and travel finance.
There are over 8,000 pairs of hands working in
the "Wales”— promoting trade and travel. They
are willing to work for you, too.
>
C# 1
'm
V w
Consult and use
f
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCOBPOBATBD IN NEW BOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5418C
m
rrnn
■ Hill
ILJI
" -*r
Made in
England
New English 33-volt, 1360-watt
HOME AND SHOP LIGHTING SETS
consist of a 3 H.P . “VillieTs” 4 cycle air-cooled Petrol Engine
coupled to a shunt-wound D.C . Generator. The Sets are complete
with Fuel Tank, Instrument Panel and are supplied with a large
assortment of Spare Parts and special Tools.
PRICE £95 f.o.b. Sydney packed
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY. LIMITED,
[Established 1906]
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
maximum for adult male workers
of about 7s. 2id. a week, and
maxima of ss. sd. and 4s. a
week for adult female and junior
workejs.”
This is a third of the amount
the Federation of Labor claimed,
and half last year’s rise of
14s. Id. to 14s. 6d. (for various
grades). When the court sized-
up the economic outlook, it saw
clouds on the horizon, and the
order was in keeping with the
mood of Maorilanders on the
eve of the general election, when
folk were looking for stability,
not for another bout of inflation.
This year, taking all things to-
gether, Maoriland has been
gradually approaching a balance,
and could reach it next year.
Trade-unionists, as a body, have
lost a lot of their earlier faith in
blanketing pay-increases as a
key to prosperity, and are more
interested in bringing to a halt
the long uptrend in costs and
prices. General wage-orders
can’t continue much longer, and
this could be the last, for much
of the protection afforded to
wage-earners in N.Z.’s sheltered
labor market is illusory ; it can’t
be sustained under competitive
conditions for exports that are
now the rule. The day when
wage-increases could be passed-
on to the export industries and
finally to overseas consumers
ended with the recent scrapping
of N.Z.’s bulk contracts for meat
and dairy-produce. There's
nothing to be gained, by and
large, by pushing wage-rates
higher, except by the unskilled,
semi - skilled, loafers and
scroungers, who always come off
best under general orders. As
N.Z. needs skilled men in all
crafts, trades and industries, the
only wage-fixing system that is
sensible and rational is one that
rewards men according to their
worth.
One of the advantages of the
Arbitration Court in N.Z. is that
it is not bound and tied to a
wage-formula, but can, and does,
take into account economic
factors. Uncertainties ahead can
have a bearing, as in framing the
new order.
Today the share of total
private income that goes to
salary- and wage-earners is the
highest since the war, and could
regain the pre-war level through
a downswing in farm incomes
which would tip the balance in
favor of those who come under
the orders of the court. Last
summer’s drought hit dairy-
farmers, who started the new
season with overdrafts 50 p.c.
higher than the 1950-53 average
and have run into the driest
spring for a long time. Two
hard seasons on end are taking
the bloom off prosperity, and
townsfolk can’t escape the effects
of the setback in the country.
Hire-purchase Finance
Possibly a-clue to high policy
in the hire-purchase business may
be gathered from the story of
Custom Credit Corporation, in
which the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia owns 40 p.c. of the
capital and its branches act as
financial agents.
Paid capital of Custom Credit
Corp. at June 30 last (after its
initial trading term) was
£500,000, when unsecured-note
liabilities, mostly short-term and
carrying up to 4 p.c. interest,
amounted to £2,764,260. The
high gearing of borrowed money
to capital helped to explain the
high rate (25 p.c.) of earnings
to capital during the period (h.-p.
advances amounting to
£3,495,750 at balance-day).
In July the co. announced that
it proposed to remould the
finances of the co. by a sub-
stantial increase in paid-up
capital, and soon afterwards the
issue was trebled. Since then
£750,000 of debenture-stock has
been offered to the public, carry-
ing 5 p.c. interest for two years,
6 p.c. for four years and over.
The co. reserved the right to
accept oversubscriptions, and it
will take an additional £895,562
that has been offered to it.
Whilst it is the intention of the
co. to go on expanding, it clearly
sees the desirability of getting in
hand more long-term or fixed
funds, and a large proportion of
these from the public rather than
from the banking system.
Some other hire-purchase
concerns not so happily situated
have already found the banking
system un-co-operative when
they have sought additional over-
draft accommodation since June
30. In all the circumstances they
might have expected to be
rebuffed. But those consumer-
credit concerns with funds to
lend should, in the circumstances,
find ample opportunity for
employing them.
Sawn-pine Timber
Within the next couple of years
New Zealand is likely to be mill-
ing three times its present surplus
of sawn timber, and to be look-
ing for export business in a big
way. Taking the present figure
as 25 million board-feet, there
could be 75 million for shipment
by 1957, and marketing of
timber would then be the key
to prosperity for the new forest
industries now in the making.
The task is one of trebling
exports quickly as the domestic
market is more fully supplied
than for a long time.
After a long struggle, N.Z. has
overcome its timber shortage,
and this a year before the
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.
comes into the picture as top-
ranking producer.
Timber exports have soared,
house-building is going ahead at
a record rate, and stocks at the
mill and in merchants’ and users'
yards are the largest yet. Mill-
production is close to the 600
million board-feet-a-year mark,
and exotic timbers are capturing
the market held until lately by
rimu, totara and matai. Pre-
judices against pine are dying
quickly, but mounting supplies
have brought new problems for
millers and merchants. The only
way to meet them is by improved
grading and better service.
The change is so sudden as to
be almost revolutionary, and
there’s the difficulty. Trade and
industry prefer a steadier pace.
The speed is due to N.Z.’s effort
to establish the machinery for
harvesting its great forest wealth
in a shorter time than has been
attempted in any other country,
Tasman is using all the planning
skill it can employ, and its long-
term prospects are as sound as
human initiative can make them.
The problems appear short-term,
but could extend over a number
of years and postpone the profits
anticipated from a venture of
this size and importance.
At the moment the new timber,
pulp and paper town at Kawerau,
in the Bay of Plenty, is a place in
a hurry, and the magnitude of the
project has captured the imagina-
t j on G f Maorilanders. Construe-
tion is being pushed forward by
Yankee methods, and the drive
j s hastening the day when the
new m jjj s will be churning out a
g reat tonnage of products.
More than £lO million-worth
w jp have t 0 be sent out G f tbe
country, from Kawerau and the
other pulp-and-paper town of
Kinleith, where N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., is now in full
production. Australia is the
natural market for most of this
surplus, and the balance of trade
will be healthier when the flow
is under way.
There are two obstacles high
freight-rates and the exchange,
For the rest, it is a matter ot
skill, enterprise and salesman-
ship, of studying the market and
making the most of the many
uses for which N.Z.-grown
radiata pine is suitable. These
are matters of co-operation in
trade. Mr. Corbett, Minister
of Forests, the Government’s key
man, who has a chance to show
what he can do, has promised
talks “on the highest level,” but
this is the season for promises,
with a general election near,
Nothing is likely to happen
before the poll, or until the new
year.
N.Z. pulp and paper will meet
keen markets in Australia, and
the most saleable at first will be
newsprint, for which the Tasman
co. has booked orders to cover
its first five years.


QUEENSLAND
V
* 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
>k/
VICTORIA
From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C. 8.8. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverlna; S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmontb.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E.:
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); A. E. Axon,
M.E., M.T.B. (Aust.); B. Hart; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : C. D. Wrigley.
Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba,
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Rockhampton and Charleville.
Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
CJYDNEY’S biggest and Australia’s
second-largest department-store, the
116-year-old D.J. organisation is begin-
ning to reach out intra- and inter-State.
Until a couple of years ago the co.
traded from three attractive and well-
placed stores in the heart of Sydney, and
a number of decentralised workrooms
and factories and three subsidiaries con-
tribute to the flow of merchandise and
net earnings, too.
Then, early in 1953, the 82-year-old
business of David Copland and Co. Pty.,
Wagga (N.S.W.), was bought, and the
premises have since been remodelled and
enlarged and the name changed to David
Jones (Wagga Wagga) Pty. In March,
1954 —too late tb have any effect worth
mentioning on the latest accounts —a
controlling interest was bought in the 60-
year-old business of Bon Marche, Ltd.,
Perth (W.A.), and the nameplate has been
changed to David Jones (Perth), Ltd.
The price paid wasn’t broadcast, but the
holding in subsidiaries has increased by
£196,976.
Now, after intermittent negotiations
extending back to 1951, the co. has just
completed one of the biggest retail deals
yet made in Australia:. For the market
equivalent of over £2,000,000 it has bought
the £423,000 of issued capital, or all but
a small fraction of it, plus £356,640 of
reserves, in the 90-year-old drapery
establishment of Charles Birks and Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide. The vendor’s capital
consists of 100,000 A 6 p.c. and 80,000 B
5 p.c. participating prefs. and 243,000
ords. The basis of the deal was an
exchange of D.J.’s f.-p. £1 ords. in the
proportion of 26 for 16 A prefs., 25
for 16 B prefs. and 24 for 16 ords., plus
10 s. cash per ord. share Myer
Emporium was a bidder, too, which
helped to push up the price.
Last term Charles Birks paid 10 p.c.
on the A prefs., 9 p.c. B prefs. and 8
p.c, ords., and, in June last, the shares
stood at premiums of a few shillings
in the market. D.J.’s lifted its ord. dis-
tribution from \2\ p.c. to 15 p.c., and
the shares are priced at 595. 6d. each. So
the vendors can see handsome gains in
both capital and income. The dividend
return on face-value of their old holdings
would thus be 24.3 p.c. A prefs., 23.4
p.c. B prefs. and 22.5 p.c, ords. And
the latter would receive a further 2.2 p.c.
if the cash payment were invested in,
say, 4j p.c. Government securities.
On the basis of total conversion, the
deal will lift D.J.’s paid capital to
£2,457,000 in 150,000 6 p.c. and 250,000
7\ p.c. prefs. and 2,057,000 ords. On
that lot the pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the
ords. would call for £336,300, or £318,911
less profit than the co. claimed last term.
Charles Birks’ latest profit was £lOl,lOO,
equal to 13.6 p.c. on total price (£773,500
scrip and cash) paid by D.J.’s for the
business.
Propitious trading conditions and
vigorous selling pushed D.J.’s own turn-
over up 20 p.c. to a record £24,000,000
for the year to July 31 last. So, with
wage and other costs less troublesome,
the co. was able to show £263,652
(67.3 p.c.) more profit. That was after
setting aside £36,840 (down £983) for
depreciation, £463,000 (up £17,038) for
taxation and £lOO,OOO (same as previous
year) for the staff fund:
i Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7Jp.c. Ordinary. serves.*
1949. .221,039 9000 18,750 10 p.c.= 95,000 1,499,239
1950. .291,169 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1,667,658
1951. .338,145 9000 18,750 10 „ ~106,375 1,871,678
1952. .280.270 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~140,500 1,983,698
1953. .391,559 9000 18,750 12J „ ~175,625 2,171,882
’ Workers’ compensation res. £76,029 .. 2,247,911
Contingencies res. appears, £280,667.. 2,528,578
From tax reserve, £200,381 .. .. 2,728,959
1954. . 655,211 9000 18,750 15 p.c.=210,750 3,145,670
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve until 1953.
On capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, the £655,211 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. divs, (£27,750)
and show a juicy 44.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 25.9, 17.9, 29.1, 27.7
and 19.1 p.c. back to 1949. The attrac-
tiveness of those ratios owes much to
the size of reserves, which were heaped
£1,340,670 higher than paid capital when
the books were ruled off. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was 13.2 p.c. During the
year £280,667 of inner reserves were dis-
closed, and £200,381 previously over-
provided for taxation was transferred
to the free accumulation. The cautious
board added a 2\ p.c. bonus to the
\2\ p.c. div., making 15 p.c. for the year;
with few exceptions the rate had been
steady at 10 p.c. from 1906 to 1952.
Surplus earnings and the disclosure of
inner reserves, etc., greatly strengthened
the liquid position;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,805,000 £1,805,000 £1,895.000
Reserves . . . . 2,044,663 2.521.298 3,145,670
Mortgages, etc. .. 503,333 500,000 750,000
Sundry creditors* 2,745,362 1,591,393 1,868,666
Tax reserve .. 300,869 546,610 463,000
Final divs. . . 84,125 119,250 136,813
Total .. .. £7,483,352 £7,083.551 £8,169,349
Freeholds .. .. 1,856,823 2,053,216 2.082,765
Plant, etc. .. 289,794 809,916 349,283
Shares subsids. .. ' 47,463 89,862 286,838
Advance subsids. . 241,901 79,204 212,177
Stocks . . . . 3,460,106 2,738,408 3,351,867
Book debts .. 1,543,319 1,863,628 1,625,151
Cash, etc 43,946 449,317 261,268
Total .. .. £7,483,352 £7,083,551 £8,169,349
* Includes provision for contingencies until 1952.
During the year £68,916 was added to
the book-value of freeholds, plant, etc.,
£329,949 to shares in and advances to
subsidiaries, £613,459 to stocks and
£261,523 to book-debts. To help meet
the outlay an extra £250,000 was raised
on mortgage, £277,473 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors (it
includes £726,691 held on deposit), and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £188,049.
The f.-p. £1 ords. recently sold at
595. 6d. as against 465. 9d. a year ago
and 375. 12 months before that. The
return at 595. 6d. is 5 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution. The first and second prefs.
at 225. 9d. and 265. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c.
and 5.6 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover at July 31 last was £33 first prefs.,
£l9 4s. second prefs. and 645. 9d. ords.
Amalgamated Retailers, Ltd.
TT has been a remarkable development,
which is not yet complete. Until a
couple of years ago the group traded as
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd., Syd-
ney. It consisted of parent co. and three
main subsidiaries, which sold short-term
credit, furniture and furnishing, etc., in
N. S. Wales, VictQria and Queensland.
Time-payment contracts and small loans
constituted the bulk of the‘business, fol-
lowed by furniture, etc., and cash-orders.
The name was changed to Amalga-
mated Retailers, Ltd., at the end of 1952,
following purchase of Murdochs men’s-
and-boys’-wear store near the Town
Hall, Sydney, for about £700,000. In
November, 1953, Murdochs became
Waltons, Ltd., which set out on a vigor-
ous programme of development as a
general retail organisation, working on
the chain principle. The shop was re-
modelled, the character and range of
merchandise handled was greatly
expanded, and 16 other Walton stores
were opened in metropolitan and other
centres in the three eastern States. Also
eight properties are held in “good retail
centres,” where it is intended to open
further Walton stores. Presently the
name of the entire organisation is to be
changed to Waltons, Ltd,
Together with expansion of the rest
of the business, it all called for heavy
capital outlay. Since 1949 £2,342,483
(including £131,062 of bonus-scrip) has
been added to issued capital, raising the
figure to £2,868,660 in 150,000 first 10
p.c. and 250,000 second 6 p.c. prefs., all
of £1 each, and 4,114,432 12s. ords.,
which have been converted into ss. stock
units since the close of accounts. At
July 31 last there was £1,021,334 to come
on the last par issue of one-for-one. Over
the same period £2,600,000 was raised on
debentures—costing on the average 5.3
p.c. and earning a lot more than their
keep—a further £1,842,663 was raised on
overdraft, etc., and the amount coming to
sundry creditors increased by £1,149,633.
As additional funds were put to work,
turnover responded. It shot up from
£4i million in 1949 to £llf million for
the 13 months to July 31, 1953, and
reached £l6 million last term, when
spending and retail turnover were stimu-
lated by an extension of consumer-credit,
small rise in net incomes and relatively
stable prices.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests, absorbing the “considerable”
cost of establishing Waltons and “sub-
stantially” increasing internal reserves
and provisions, as well as setting aside
£17,277 (down £662) for depreciation
and an unspecified amount for taxation,
the board figured net earnings £75,019
stronger at £341,294:
Parent Co. Onlt.
z Dividends —>To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1949.. 114,515 10 p.c. 15 p.c, 71,426 43,089 276,'879
From bad-debts reserve, £BO,OOO .. 305,879
1950.. 120.294 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 75,893 44,401 850,280
Revaluation assets, £145,330 .. ..495,610
Reserves capitalised, £131,662 .. ..863,948
From stock reserves, £BO,OOO .. .. 893,948
1951.. 207,482 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 114,138 93,344 487,292
1952.. 188,782 10 ~ 15 ~ 163,077 25,705 512,997
Debenture issue exes., £17,088 ..495,909
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends — N
Ist. 2nd. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref.Pref.Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’s3t. 266,275 10 6 15 181,270 85,005 286,205
Revaluation assets. £766,018 .. ..1,052,223
Reduction intangibles, etc., £6764 .. 1,058,987
Debenture exes., £56,621 .. .. 1,002,366
’54.. 341,294 10 6 15 211,172 130,122 1,132,488
* After deducting goodwill, etc., £421,155 at
31/7/’54. f Thirteen months.
After paying the pref. divs. (£29,888),
the £311,406 of the year’s profit that
remained was equal to 25.7 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital as against 22.8 p.c. for
the preceding 13 months. The div. was
kept at 15 p.c. for the eighth year in
succession, making average distribution
over the last 20 years 14 p.c.
The cost of the last debenture-issue
(£56,621) has been written off against
reserves, which were also credited with
£766,018, following a revaluation of
freeholds in order to bring them nearer
their present-day worth. The board has
no intention of capitalising the reserve
thus created, the chairman says.
The year’s net increase in total assets
was £3,802,024:
Parent’s Consolidated
Ficiures. Figures.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. 1,137,464 1,384,393 1,847,326
Reserves . . . . 498,109 714.334 1.553.643
Outside interests .. 52,212 40,051
Debentures .. 1,100,000 ).. on „ . ~.
Overdraft . . . . \ 2 - 469 - 802 4,642,386
Creditors* . . 1,079,009 1,229,841 1,557,986
Final divs. .. 81.560 99,710 110,924
Totals .. .. £3,896,142 £5,950,292 £9,752,316
Freeholds . . . . 13,309 1,320,795 2.123,841
Plant, etc. . . 62,702 184,609 305,910
Deb. sinking fund 11,003 44,451 59,711
Shares subsids. .. 919,326
Shares other cos... 46,126 76,778 70,582
Stock .. .. 478,405 970,977 2,204,890
Book debts .. 2,327,173 2,905,656 4,527,522
Cash, etc 35,898 18,897 38,705
Intangibles .. 2,200 428.129 421,155
Total .. . . £3,896,142 £5,950,292 £9,752,316
* Includes provisions for taxation and contingencies.
Most of the growth of £803,046 in free-
holds was due to the writing-up already
referred to. Plant increased by £121,301,
stock by £1,233,013 and book-debts by
£1,621,866. To help meet the outlay
£1,500,000 was raised on debentures,
£672,584 was added to the overdraft, etc.,
£328,145 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £462,933 of fresh share-
capital was gathered. Including deben-
tures, there was 28s. of outside money in
the business for every £ belonging to
shareholders when the books closed.
Prospects of an even better showing
at next balance look bright enough at
the moment. At 10s. 6d. the f.-p. ss.
ords. return 7.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The £1 10 p.c. first prefs. at 295.
yield 6.9 p.c. Including uncalled capital,
net tangible cover is £26 13s. 3d. first
prefs. and 7s. 2d. ords. The second prefs.
are not listed.
Peter Lloyd Industries (N.S.W.)
DENDING changes in franchises for
■*- Nuffield vehicles in N. S. Wales have
brightened the outlook for Peter Lloyd
Industries, Ltd., which has been a disap-
pointment to shareholders to date.
Formed in 1950, at the peak of the boom
in the motor trade, the co. bought the
194,800 issued ss. shares in Peter Lloyd,
Ltd., in exchange for 584,400 of its own
ss. shares. Then, to provide more work-
ing capital, a public issue of 415,000 new
ss. shares was made, lifting paid capital
to £250,000.
Principal franchises, which covered
N. S. Wales, were for Wolseley and Riley
cars and Nuffield universal tractors and
M.G. cars (country districts), to which
have been added Mercedes-Benz and
Nash cars and trucks, and Dennis trucks,
municipal vehicles and firefighting
equipment.
The first year’s operating result was
encouraging, but as conditions in the
trade worsened the co.’s earnings con-
tracted abruptly and a loss of £93,732
showed up in 1953:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June, Profit. f— —Dividends Reserves.*
£ £ £
Preliminary expenses, £5816 .. 109,981
1951 .. 90,534 10 p.c. = 16,153 t 184,362
1952 .. 34,605 7i ~ „ 18.750 200,217
Goodwill written off, £20,168 . 180,049
To capital reserve, £897 .. 180,946
Loss.
1953 .. 93,732 87,214
To capital reserve, £24,896 .. 112,110
Profit.
1954 . . 31,285 143,395
* Subject to £109,299 of intangibles.
t Dividends, which was at div. rate of 10 p.c. p.a.,
was for six months only on public issue.
Last term car sales picked up sufficiently
for the co. to show a profit of £31,285,
or 12.5 p.c. on capital. No provision for
taxation was necessary. Reserves, which
are subject to £109,299 of intangibles,
also benefited by a capital profit of
£24,896 from sale of freehold and other
assets. Shareholders, who have received
two divs. totalling \2\ p.c. over the last
four years, were passed by, but the board,
“optimistic of the co.’s future under the
new franchise arrangement,” proposes to
make an interim distribution during the
current term.
The financial structure was brought
into much better balance:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. £250,000 £250,000 £250.000
Reserves . . .. 200,218 87,214 143,395
Overdraft . . .. 314,361 222,681 127,081
Creditors .. 454,587 265,631 50,833
Tax provision .. 75,651 13,746 996
Final divs. .. 6,250
£1,301,067 £839,272 £572,305
Land and buildings 125,647 90,100 70,862
Plant, etc. . . 54,773 52,123 44,200
Shares in other cos. 60,450 60,450 1,500
Stock .. .. 796,063 450.659 252,883
Debtors . . . . 13,4,303 76,316 93,230
Cash . . .. 364 325 331
Intangibles . . 129,467 109,299 109,299
£1,301,067 £839,272 £572,305
Reductions of £197,776 in stocks,
£58,950 in shareholdings and £19,238 in
freeholds, together with surplus earn-
ings, etc., enabled £214,798 to be slashed


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks— Advt.
PROGRESS
AND
d
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. ‘Phone BW 8061.
TO -DAY’S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
Head Office:
“Bradmill House,” Cnr. Missenden and Parramatta Roads, Camperdown.
Speech by Mr. S. M. Wreford (Chairman) to Shareholders at the
Twenty-seventh Annual General Meeting of Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited, held on the 25th October, 1954, at 12 o’clock, noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Printed copies of the Financial State-
ment and Report of the Directors relating
thereto have already been sent to all
Shareholders, and, therefore, with your
permission, I propose to take them as
read.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Trading conditions were buoyant during
the year and this, combined with reduced
costs of production, have resulted in a
profit substantially in excess of anything
previously experienced.
Before making provision for taxation
the • net profit is shown in the consoli-
dated accounts for the year ended 30th
June, 1954. as £762,954, as compared
with £506,033 for the previous period.
The comparative figures, after making the
necessary provision for taxation, are
£497,734 and £365,364 respectively.
Tax provision this year amounted to
£265,220, compared with £140,669 lor
the previous year.
The sales for the year were an all-time
record, and this enabled us to increase our
total profits and, at the same time, re-
duce the cost of our goods. The per-
centage of profit on turnover is a modest
figure.
If the whole of the goods produced by
the Company had been sold without profit
at all, the reduction possible per pound
of yarn or per yard of cloth would have
been quite insignificant in relation to the
selling price of the garments into which
the yarn or cloth is converted. As a
matter of fact, it is less than the differ-
ence between the current price of Ameri-
can cotton and cotton which we have to
purchase from sterling areas because of
currency control.
Depreciation also increased substan-
tially, the amount written off being
£349,647 for the year just ended com-
pared with £277,110 for the year ended
June, 1953.
The value of plant, furniture and fit-
tings at £4,346,284 shows an increase of
approximately £144,263 over the previous
year, against which there is a deprecia-
tion reserve of £1,756,905.
Stocks, stores and spare parts are
approximately comparable with those on
hand for the previous year. The slight
increase is due to the increased value
of the raw cotton on hand; this is a
fluctuating figure which is affected by the
date shipments arrive. Other than raw
cotton, stocks show a decreased value
of approximately £150,000 in spite of
the fact that the Mills are working to a
greater extent, and plant, which was idle
in June, 1953, is now in operation; these
factors have the effect of increasing the
work-in-progress and stocks.
The Bank Overdraft has been reduced
to £388,400 compared with £989,000 at
the end of June, 1953.
TARIFF BOARD ENQUIRIES
At the previous Annual Meeting refer-
ence was made to the fact that three
Tariff Board enquiries over the past lo
years had investigated the question of im-
posing duties on cotton duck and tyre
cord. The investments in this section of
the Textile Industry in Australia is in
excess of £4,000,000; this is almost en-
tirely divided between ourselves and an-
other Textile Company.
The existence of these plants saved the
Australian people and the Australian Gov-
ernment millions of pounds during the
war years and subsequently, because the
production from them was sold at sub-
stantially lower prices than those at
which such goods could be imported from
Overseas, duty free.
Recently the Government tabled in
Parliament the Tariff Board report re-
lating to our application for duties on
cotton ducks, and simultaneously tabled
a schedule of duties which came into
operation on and from the 19th August
last. These duties are on the very fine
side and do not compensate for the hours,
wages and other disadvantages _ under
which we operate as compared with our
competitors Overseas. Nevertheless, it is
expected that the imposition of these
duties will result in a big improvement
on the conditions which have prevailed
over recent years—so far as Mills pro-
ducing these fabrics are concerned.
Up to date no information is available
as to the result of the enquiry into
Cotton Tyre Cord.
BURLINGTON MILLS (AUS-
TRALIA) LIMITED
During the year the Company acquired
a further holding of shares in Burlington
Mills (Australia) Limited. An issue of
198,468 of Bradford Shares was made to
pay for them. The number of shares
obtained was 318,000, and the average
price paid for them worked out at
approximately 12/6 per share.
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited now
holds the majority of the shares in Bur-
lington Mills (Australia) Limited which
has, therefore, become a Subsidiary of
this Company.
* DIVIDENDS
The Dividend paid by Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited has been maintained by the
Company since 1940 at the rate of 10%.
Over this period the value of money has
decreased substantially and capital in-
vested in the Company has, therefore,
been receiving a smaller and smaller real
return with the passage of time. In the
circumstances your Directors feel justified
in making a recommendation that, for
the current year, the dividend should be
increased to 124%.
After making provision for Tax, de-
preciation, dividends and other minor
items, the balance remaining to the credit
of the Profit and Loss Account is
£466,824, compared with £325,792 last
year.
IMPROVED TRADING
CONDITIONS
Following the imposition of Import re-
strictions, trading conditions commenced
to improve and by the beginning of the
financial period under review most of our
plants were in production on either a
two- or three-shift basis; this resulted
in a substantial reduction in production
costs and enabled us to keep prices at a
figure which would otherwise have been
impossible owing to the increased prices
which had to be paid for raw cotton —
which forms our principal raw materials.
There has been continuous steady pro-
gress in our standards of operating, and
the 'production has been considerably
helped by the making of incentive pay-
ments which directly relate to the output
of the various types of goods which we
manufacture. In this respect we are
keeping abreast of the latest developments
in those Overseas countries which lead
the world.
In accordance with the policy which
our Company has followed for some years,
a number of our leading Executives, both
technical and administrative, have been
sent Overseas during the year, and the
Company has derived great benefits as the
result of the knowledge acquired during
the course of these visits.
NEW PLANT
In the Chairman’s address to the
Annual Meeting last year, reference was
made to the new plants being installed at
Rutherford. The erection of the Mer-
cerising and Bleaching plants was com-
pleted early in the year, and they have
been operating for the twelve months—
but not to anything like their capacity.
These are really ancillary finishing umts
which enable us to take contracts for the
supply of goods which otherwise it would
not be possible for us to handle. Indi-
rectly, therefore, we get the benefit of
having these new plants even though they
do not directly show us an operating
profit.
The new Yarn-dyeing plant —to which
reference was also made—has now been
completely erected and is in production.
It replaced plant which had been operat-
ing since 1932.
With the exception of single units of
plant purchased to replace equipment
which had lost its value through obso-
lescence there has been no expansion
of the Company’s activities during the
period under review. It has been a year
of consolidation during which efforts have
been concentrated on the adoption of im-
proved methods, reorganisation to bring
about better handling of materials and
a concentration on quality control. In a
Company such as this these efforts must
be continuous, and the organisation has
been designed to ensure that there will
be no slackening of effort to build up
production, reduce costs and improve
quality.
RAW MATERIALS
It is fundamental that manufacturing
industries should be able to purchase their
materials in the cheapest markets. Alter-
natively, it is the responsibility of Gov-
ernments to do something to protect in-
dustries which are compelled, for national
reasons* to buy their raw materials at
prices substantially in excess of prices
paid by their Overseas Competitors. '
Any protective duties operating at the
present time have been based on the
assumption that the Industry will have
access to the same sources of supply ot
raw materials as are available to our
competitors Overseas.
Inability to keep a sufficient share ol
the Australian market to enable us to
operate our plants fully—because of tha
necessity of paying higher prices for ■ our
raw materials —has the effect of making
goods more costly. Even where it is pos-
sible to produce and sell such goods, the
final effect on the price charged to the
consumer is a serious matter. It is not
too much to say that the existence of this
state of affairs plays some part in
bringing about the introduction of re-
strictions on imports.
There is always a great outcry when
new restrictions are placed on the im-
portation of manufactured textiles. The
restriction on the importation of raw
materials required for the manufactured
goods, however, is continuous, and its
effect is much more serious as sometimes
it is physically impossible to buy the
right sort of raw material in a sterling
market.
The Australian Cotton Textile Industry
can only get part of its requirements
from North America—the balance has to
be purchased from other countries where
currency restrictions do not operate with
such severity. This has the effect not
only of compelling us to pay a great deal
more money for our cotton, but it also
compels us, in many cases, to use cotton
inferior in quality to that required for
the style of textile goods we are pro-
ducing.
The result is, that public people then
criticise us because our selling prices are
not competitive and frequently because
the fabrics produced are below standard.
Our critics attribute this to inefficiency,
whereas it has to do with reasons over
which we have absolutely no control what-
ever.
DECENTRALISATION
There is no doubt the decentralisation
of industry in Australia has many benefits
from a national point of view, and Gov-
ernments have encouraged industry to
erect plants in suitable country districts.
This Company has probably led the
way in this respect; it-ias certainly done
so in the case of Textiles, and there are
undoubtedly some benefits to be derived
from such a policy—but serious handicaps
also follows from it. The high addi-
tional cost which has to be incurred in
transporting goods alone is more than
sufficient to offset the advantages.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
AGREEMENTS
Industrial enterprises in Australia could
be seriously affected as the result ot
International Agreements.
It is generally accepted that, weighing
up the advantages and disadvantages of
those which we have entered into over
recent years, the Commonwealth has
gained little and stands in danger of losing
a lot. There is much talk about mutual
reductions in Tariffs, but little is achieved,
and such gains as are made are often more
apparent than real due to the fact that
ways and means are found of getting
round the concessions.
All Australian industry will follow with
interest and, in many cases with some
trepidation, the discussions now taking
place in the United Kingdom and those
to follow at Geneva, which will deal with
future policy and attitude towards the
General Agreement on Trades and Tariffs.
IN CONCLUSION
In conclusion, I would only like to
say that the year has been one of record
production, record sales and record profits.
This, however, does not mean that every-
thing has been smooth sailing. There
have been difficult problems in plenty;
these are inseparableYfrom a highly com-
petitive industry of this kind. Over the
years, however, a capable and efficient
staff has been gathered together and it
has been possible to overcome difficulties
as they arose without any serious set-
back.
STAFF
Your Board desire to place on record
heir thanks and appreciation for the
work done during the year by its very
[oyal staff and work force from whom
the fullest co-operation has been received.
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited.
S. M. WEEFOED, Chairman.
Sydney, 25th October, 1954.
off the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £95,600 off the
overdraft. Growth in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£169,034)
was £83,342.
Under the new franchise
arrangement, Nuffield (Aust.)
Pty.—part of the big British
Motor Corp. organisation —will
take over distribution of
Nuffield products in N. S. Wales
country areas as from February
1, 1955. Peter Lloyd, Ltd., will
thus lose the country distribu-
tion of Wolseley, Riley and
M.G. cars and Nuffield tractors.
At the same time it will become
joint - distributor with York
Motors (now sole distributor) in
the Sydney metropolitan area
of Morris cars and trucks,
Wolseley and Riley cars and
Nuffield tractors.
For the 12 months to
December 31, 1953, N.S.W.
metropolitan new registrations
were Morris cars 1709, Morris
commercial vehicles 565,
Wolseley cars 101, M.G. cars 54
and Riley and Mercedes-Benz
12 and 10 respectively. Figure
for 1954 promises to be well
above those for 1953, especially
for Morris vehicles.
Peter Lloyd’s f.-p. ss. shares,
which sold at 2s. lid. in February
last, recently fetched 7s. sd. At
the higher figure the return
would be 8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div.,
which would call for £30,000, or
£1285 less profit than was
claimed last term. Net tangible
cover is ss. Bd.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
TPHE North is one of the
largest and richest of the
big silver-lead-zinc mines at the
Barrier (N.S.W.). A factor
limiting dividends of recent
years has been heavy capital
outlay, met out of earnings, on
a big new haulage-shaft (down
1538 ft. at end of October last)
to service what is virtually a
new mine, disclosed by develop-
ments at the northern end of
the co.’s leases. This shaft is
now about 75 p.c. complete, and
some £1,400,000 will be re-
quired to finish the programme.
Of this amount £600,000 was
set aside out of last year’s
earnings, leaving £BOO,OOO to be
spent over the next three or
four years. The end of heavy
capital expenditure is thus in
sight. Total outlay on new
plant and mine development
during the four years to June 30
last was £3,769,400.
For this and other reasons,
including a lift in the div. from
90 p.c. to 110 p.c., the market
lengthened its bid for the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares from 71s. 6d. a
year ago to 87s. 6d. last week. At
the higher figure the immediate
return is 6.2 p.c. on a 110 p.c.
distribution, with prospects.
Last term a bigger crushing
of ore and larger sales of
metals, together with a reduc-
tion in mine exes., more than
offset the effects of lower metal
prices, and net earnings stepped
up by £168,029; — _
Revenue — 1953. 1954.
Mine products . . £5,923,625 £6,057,057
Investments .. 410,081 400,503
£6,333,706 £6.457,610
Expenditure— „ „„„
Mine .. .. 4,231,524 3,998,745
P. and 1. items.. 502,124 690,778
£4,733,648 £4,689,523
Net profit .. .. £1,600,058 £1,768,087
The reduction of £232,779 in
mine exes, was due mainly to
completion of treatment (Nov.,
1953) of slime-dump material
and slightly lower lead-bonus
paid to employees following the
drop in the price of the metal.
Of the £188,654 rise in p. and 1.
items, £169,000 was on account
of provision for tax and royal-
ties (£518,000). Allowances for
depreciation and long-service
leave were unchanged at
£lOO,OOO and £75,000 respec-
tively.
The £1,768,087 of profit was
equal to 252.5 p.c. on the
£700,000 of share-capital as
against 228.5, 366.6, 350 and 211
p.c. back to 1950. The div.,
which had been lowered from
170 p.c. for 1952 to 90 p.c. for
1953, was lifted to 110 p.c.,
which called for £770,000,
Average London metal prices,
which fell sharply following
cessation of Government bulk-
buying in 1952-53, eased further
for the year to June 30 last,
owing to developments in the
U.S..—
f Average Price ,
Lead. Zinc.
Year to— £S. £S.
30/6/’5l ..135 18 0 148 13 11
SO/6/’52 ..167 10 11 183 14 3
30/6/’53 ..102 0 7 98 5 10
30/6/’54 .. 92 10 4 74 17 10
3 Mths. to —
30/9/’54 ~ 97 8 1 78 2 4
On November 2 the figure for
lead had risen to £SIO7 15s. 3d.
and for zinc to £SBI 10s. Statis-
tics indicate that world produc-
tion and consumption of lead
are roughly in balance, and
stocks show no sign of rising. If
zinc is slightly in oversupply it
is not greatly so. And Aus-
tralian producers expect to
benefit considerably from in-
creased sales of lead to the U.S.
during the coming year, the
North’s chairman, M. H,
Baillieu, says.
Last term the co. treated
379,001 tons (up 27,252 tons)
crudes, assaying 13.5 p.c. lead,
7.60 z. silver and 10.8 p.c, zinc
for the following concentrates:
f Assay ,
Concentrates— Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead — Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1953 .. 65,705 71.1 35.5 5.2
1954 .. 69,494 71.9 38.1 4.9
Zinc—
-1953 .. 66,308 0.8 1.5 50.6
1954 .. 70.509 0.7 1.6 50.8
Metal recoveries were 97.4 p.c.
: of the lead and 91.8 p.c. of the
silver in the lead concentrates
and 87.4 p.c. of the zinc in the
zinc concentrates.
Measured ore reserves at
June 30, 1954, were put at
4,702,000 tons; in addition
there is a large probable ton-
, nage of high-grade stuff dis-
• closed by the diamond-drill at
! the northern end of the leases.
The financial position im-
proved :
1953. 1954.
Shares in other cos. £3,111,726 £3,215,579
Stores .. .. 749,617 506,712
Concentrates on
hand .. .. 1,074,769 1,158,798
Debtors .. .. 152,227 46,971
Cash, etc. .. 515,451 818,012
Liquid assets .. £5,603,790 £5,746,072
Less liabilities* .. 1,780,152 1,533,372
Liquid surplus .. £3,823,638 £4,212,700
* Includes provision for taxation, final
divs., etc.
The growth in the liquid sur-
plus was £389,002, despite the
heavy expenditure on shaft-
sinking, plant, etc. Sharehold-
ings (up £103,853) are mostly in
well-established and expanding
non-ferrous and other manufac-
turing concerns.
Hill 50 Mine, N.L.
To date the mine at Mt.
Magnet (W.A.) is being worked
to the 820 ft. level. To get at the
richer ore further down, the
main shaft has been sunk to
1143 ft., and driving on the main
crosscut at 1060 ft. has begun.
A lot of new and efficient
plant has been installed, and as
the slope above the 820 ft. level
was opened up the grade
improved, and profits have
responded handsomely;
Year to Treated, Gold, Profit. Div.
June, Tons. Fine Oz. £ £
1952 .. 52,427 11,880 23,877 Nil
(47.3%)
1958 .. 72,763 24,930 156,729 65,625
(237.5%)
1954 .. 92,245 56,763 607,399 356,250
Last term head-value of the feed
was 12.67dwt. and recovery
11.6dwt., compared with 7.62dwt.
and 6.Bdwt. respectively for the
previous year. The profit was
equal to 405 p.c. on the £150,000
of capital as against 104.5 p.c..in
1953, the div. was lifted from
43.7 p.c. to 237.5 p.c., and a
further Is. 6d. per Is. stock-unit
has gone out since the close of
accounts.
Ore reserves at June 30 last
were positive 540,000 tons,
averaging 13dwt., above 820 ft.
level, probable 400,000 tons,
averaging 15dwt., below 820 ft.
The market prices the Is.
stock-units at 575., thus valuing
the undertaking at £8,550,000.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A soft mild breeze and warm sunshine
made conditions ideal for the display of
mid-spring fashions for Oaks Day at
Flemington. Filmy chiffons, fine silks,
organzas and laces were the most popular
materials—plain, spotted, flowered or
striped and in every color of the rainbow.
The picture-hat, of straw, tulle or
organza, came into its own.
Lady Brooks wore one of the most
becoming picture-hats. Of black tulle,
it had an undulating brim ; her pure-silk
white frock was scattered with a design
of black wheat-ears and smaller corn-
flower-blue ones. Lady George also chose,
a picture-hat, hers of tulle and ostrich-
feathers to match her pearl-grey frock and
loose jacket of fine silk-faille.
Mrs. A. L. Walters (Sydney) was strik-
ing in a coat of kingfisher-blue silk-
shantung, which covered a frock of pale-
beige shantung; her tiny hat of beige
straw had the brim curling softly upwards
and filled-in with sprays of lily-of-the-
valley. Lady Manifold (wife of the
V.R.C. chairman) chose a pastel-blue tie-
silk frock patterned with darker-blue
spots. Her large matching-blue hat of
coarse straw had a slightly drooping brim
and was swathed with chiffon.
Mrs. Geoffrey Brewer had deep-pink
roses and green leaves on her white frock.
Tiny rosebuds patterned the parchment-
silk frock worn by Sara Hordern
(Sydney), and it carried a rose-pink cum-
merbund ; her faille boater was deep-
cream. Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn also
used roses and green leaves to embellish
her white silk frock. A full swinging-
coat of moss-green shantung, patterned
in soft grey, pink and mauve, and with a
deep sailor-collar, was worn by Mrs.
A. G. Silk with a tiny pillbox hat trimmed
with a diamente ornament. Mrs. Harold
Holt’s pale-green frock was patterned with
pale-brown branches of soft-pink
cabbage-roses and dull-green leaves ; here
and there was a parrot sitting on the
branches. Her large picture-hat was of
dark-green velvet.
Mrs. Alex Finlay’s frock of white silk
patterned with black circles emphasised
the Empire bodice, and it was outlined
with a black velvet band. Her white satin
wide-brimmed sailor-hat was edged round
the brim and flat crown with black velvet.
Another striking frock was worn by Mrs.
Leo Guest. Made of Kelly-green silk-
organza, the skirt was short and had a
scalloped hem to reveal an underskirt of
the organza with a finely pleated frill.
Her large blackrstraw picture-hat was
swathed with matching organza.
A frilly white parasol was carried by
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon to match her
silk-shantung frock and small chiffon-
swathed hat. She gained contrast with an
emerald-green stole. Among the outstand-
ing frocks was that worn by Mrs. P.
Hartnett, of Sydney. Of cinnamon-
brown chiffon spotted in black, it was
slim to the knees, where it billowed into
three deep-flared flounces. Her accessories
were Mack.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some of the fashion-highlights of
Cup Day: Lady Brooks’s princess-
coat of ink-blue, heavy-corded silk with
its grouping of pleats at the back, her
small pale-pink hat carrying clusters of
tiny pink flowers at each side ; the prin-
cess-coat of sapphire-blue faille and tiny
hat pf blossom-pink flowers worn by
Lady George, wife of the Governor of
S.A.; the small hat of mother-of-pearl
flowers with which Lady Manifold
embellished her black suit; Mrs. A. L.
Walters s off-the-face white feather-hat;
Mrs. Morris Sallman’s honey-beige velvet
coat and matching beige straw hat; Mrs.
Clive Carney’s honey-toned velvet coat
worn with a printed-silk frock and small
hat; the large pink rose set on the sleeve
of Mrs. Desmond Hollywood’s black
faille coat to match, the rose on her
grass-green pillbox-hat.
is ☆ ☆
One of the gayest of race-week festivi-
ties was the Lucky Horseshoe dinner-
dance at Giro’s, organised by young mem-
bers of Red Cross, which gets the pro-
ceeds. A giant horseshoe made of roses
and rhododendrons dominated the
foyer, in the ballroom wall-panels were
decorated with topical cartoons and
horses’ heads inside horseshoes, and
each guest received a tiny pink-sugar
horse.
Guests were welcomed by the presi-
dent of the dance-committee, Noela
Love, whose bouffant gown of white
nylon-tulle had the strapless bodice
embroidered with pink and mauve
sequins and crystal pear-drop beads.
There were four ticket-secretaries: Mrs.
Peter Watkins, who covered her short
black frock with a full coat of old-gold
faille; Clarissa Starey, whose shell-pink
faille gown had a fitted corded bodice ;
Virginia Davenport, in full-skirted gown
of orchid-pink satin ; and Patricia Mc-
Caulay, her grey sari gown featuring a
draped off-shoulder bodice.
Among the dancers were Mr. and
Mrs.' David Calvert (Skipton), Mr. and
Mrs. Philip Russell (Beaufort), Mr. and
Mrs. James Russell (Carngham), Mr.
and Mrs. E. D. Mackinnon, Mrs.
Laurence Simpson, Ann Swallow and
Mrs. J. I. Gorr.
Mrs. Douglas Craig, of Noorumboon,
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), with her husband
spent race-week in Melbourne, and also
attended many of the social events. The
only daughter of Mrs. George Ogilvie,
who lives at Chevron Hotel, and the late
Mr. Ogilvie, Mrs. Craig is a member of
the Deniliquin Ladies’ Club and is a keen
gardener. John Warlow photo.
Decorations at the Royale Ballroom
for the Navy Ball, held to aid the
Flinders Naval Depot Memorial Chapel
Fund, included an. illuminated skiff “sail-
ing” across the ballroom entrance. An
illuminated gangway led to the foyer,
where there was a signal-hoist backed by
a White Ensign fluttering in the “breeze.”
The entrance was flanked by tall white
urns filled with arum-lilies, stock, rhodo-
nendrons and branches of gold broom.
In the ballroom each pillar was adorned
with a gold garland, and those hanging
on each side of the vice-regal box were
entwined with pale-gold roses and sprays
of wattle. The orchestra played from a
stand made to appear as a bridge of a
ship with pinnacle, wheel and port, star-
board- and masthead-lights. Ceremonial
lifebuoys from each of the visiting ships,
H.M.S. Defender and H.M.A.S. Sydney,
Tobruk and Anzac, were ranged along
the canvas-apron in front of the “bridge.”
When the Governor and Lady Brooks
arrived with a party from Government
House members of the W.R.A.N.S.
formed a guard-of-honor. The vice-
regal party were received by the president
of the ball-committee, Mrs. H. J.
Buchanan, and her husband. Commodore
Buchanan, with Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins. Lady Brooks
wore a beautiful gown of white lace
embroidered with a silver thread and
crystal beads and having a deep hem
of tulle. The fitted bodice had narrow
shoulder-straps and was worn under a
filmy tulle stole.
Mrs. Amos Peaslee, wife of the U.S.
Ambassador, chose a full-skirted short
evening-gown of dull-gold satin. Ice-
blue satin was draped across the top of
the bodice of Lady Collins’s gown of
parchment-satin and formed one wide
shoulder-strap, to continue down the back
to form a bustle at the waist. Opalescent
sequins encrusted the bodice. Mrs.
Buchanan’s gown was of white nylon-net
embossed in silver and white and cut on
slim lines to the knees. It then cascaded
out into a series of frills which graduated
up to the waist.
Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowling and Mrs.
Dowling and commanding-officers of
visiting warships were in the large
official party. Mrs. Dowling’s gown was
of silver-grey brocade patterned in blue ;
the skirt was wide and the bodice had a
band of pleated tulle across one shoulder,
forming a stole. Also in the official
party was Capt. Davis Goff, of the
R.N.Z.N., and Mrs. Goff, who pinned
tiny pink rosebuds on one shoulder and
at the waist of her pure-silk black tulle
gown.
Among the dancers were Mrs. George
Brown, whose patterned silk-brocade
CUP-TIME
gown had floating panels lined with
emerald-green to match the lining in her
silver brocade coat; Mrs. E, Campbell,
whose slim gown was of white guipure
lace and her stole of pastel-pink tulle ;
Mrs. Desmond Deasey, the bodice of
whose ice-blue faille gown featured the
dropped shoulder-line; Mrs. Ted
Cordner, wearing a bouffant gown of
gold-embroidered white organdie ; Mrs.
Peter Cox, in a short, full frock of brown
organza over pink taffeta; Mrs. Gordon
Darling, whose bouffant gown of laven-
der tulle was embroidered with sequins
and crystals ; and Lois Smith, wearing a
white full-skirted gown of guipure lace
and organdie and a sash of Chartreuse
satin.
* it ft
Roses, rhododendrons and iris made
effective decorations for the buffet-dinner
party given by the Ronald Notts. The
hostess wore a lovely gown of cream lace
over coffee-tinted satin, the pattern of the
lace being outlined with iridescent
thread ; with it was worn a dark-green
velvet sash. Mrs. Nott’s sister, Betty
Smith, allied a white wool sweater
embroidered in gold and a full ballerina
skirt of pine-green velvet. Mrs. Walter
McGrath’s frock was of black Chantilly
lace over steel-grey taffeta. Mrs. Leonard
Plasto had bands of matching grosgrain
to trim the skirt of her navy guipure-
lace gown.
Mrs. Geoffrey Hartigan wore a white
Swiss-muslin embroidered blouse with a
black taffeta skirt. Mrs. Harold Holt’s
chiffon frock was printed in an ocelot
design. Mrs. Keith Morrison wore a blue-
fox cape over a junior-blue taffeta
ballerina frock. Mrs. John Shaw’s black
taffeta frock had an original pannier
effect on the skirt, and it was lined with
scarlet nylon tulle. Mrs. John Chaldjian's
choice was cinnamon-brown lace, Mrs.
Percy Northrupp’s emerald-green taffeta.
Rosslyn, only child of Lieut.-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, of
South Yarra, is to be married on Decem-
ber 7 at Trinity Chapel, University, to
John Poynter, Dean of Trinity College.
Educated here and in England, Rosslyn
is secretary in one of the University’s
departments, but will give up her career
after her marriage. A tasteful dresser,
she is a keen music-lover. Photo by
Spencer Shier.
Two white ducks swimming in an
artificial lake at the entrance to the
hangar-deck of H.M.A.S. Sydney caught
the eye of guests arriving for the late-
afternoon party given by the First Naval
Member, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins.
Massed flags decorated the deck where
the 700 guests enjoyed naval hospitality.
and where they were received by Vice-
Admiral and Lady Collins,
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended, she wearing a frock of steel-
grey taffeta and a small cherry-red sailor-
hat with the brim trimmed with field-
flowers. Lady Collins chose a pearl-grey
silk frock with an accordion-pleated and
draped bodice ; her tiny pillbox hat was
of ice-blue velvet. In the Government
House party was Valerie Maxwell, who
wore an almond-green lightweight-wool
princess-coat and matching green cur-
vette.
With Rear-Admiral R. R, Dowling
was his wife, whose figured leaf-green
silk dress was worn with a small feather-
cap. Capt. H. M. Burrell, who will suc-
ceed Rear-Admiral Dowling as Flag
Officer of the Fleet, was accompanied by
Mrs. Burrell, who wore a rose-pink faille
frock with a small flower-hat. Among
the guests were the Consul for the Nether-
lands, Col. F. H, Wright, and Mrs.
Wright, Sir Charles and Lady Lowe, Sir
Owen and Lady Dixon, Lieut.-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, Sir
William and Lady Angliss, the High
Commissioner for India, Gen. Cariappa,
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. Selleck), Mr. and Mrs. T. T.
Hollway, Professor and Mrs. G. W.
Paton, and White Ensign Club committee-
members Mrs. S. Aarons, Mrs. R. Honey-
man, Mrs. Eric Cottrell and Mrs, Con-
stance Day.
☆ ☆ ☆
At Chevron, Peter Howson was host
to a small party which included Govern-
ment House aides Captain Reyne and
Lieutenant John Larkins, Marian Mc-
Pherson (private secretary to Lady
Brooks) and English visitor Valerie Max-
well, who is a guest at G.H. Other hosts
included Mr. S. J. Dawkins, whose wife
wore a grey satin-brocade coat and
small pink flower-hat. Mrs. Charles
Bishop’s choice was a black Chantilly-
lace dinner-frock. Mr. and Mrs. C. W.
Norton (Queensland) entertained a small
party, she wearing a diamente-studded
black frock and pink-shell hat. The
Chinese Ambassador, Dr. T. C. Chen,
and Madame Chen were the guests of
the Chinese Consul, Mr. Liu, and Mrs.
Liu, as were the J. J. Brophys. The
attractive ballerina-frock worn by Mrs,
John Carrodus was of black satin em-
broidered with gold and colored thread
forming a branch-and-leaf design.
☆ ☆ ☆
On the glass-enclosed dance-deck of
R.M.S. Iberia, one of the most luxurious
vessels to berth at Port Melbourne, the
deputy-chairman of the P. and O. Com-
pany, Sir Donald Anderson, with Lady
Anderson and the master of the ship.
Captain C. E. Pollitt, received 250
guests at a cocktail-party. Lady Ander-
son chose a cocktail-frock of black silk-
organza with bobble-braid edging the
hemline and the cap-sleeves of black
Chantilly lace. Mrs. Harold Holt’s strik-
ing gown of white chiffon had a pleated
bouffant skirt and strapless bodice
swathed with a wide turquoise shot-
silk taffeta stole. Ann Livingston. wore
a short frock of floral nylon-organza
patterned in a rose, grey and white floral
design.
Mrs. Alastair Mackinnon’s choice was
a black taffeta ballerina-frock and a tiny
cloche of white flowers on a bed of green
leaves. Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s bouffant
frock of junior-blue chiffon was topped
with a garnet-red velvet pillbox-hat with
a matching rose set in front. Lady Mc-
Connan’s daughter, Mrs. H. Moreton,
wore a bronze cocktail-frock and a
fluted brim of emerald-green straw
massed with white flowers. Mrs. Bob
Gove’s black suit was worn with a small
geranium-red beret. Mrs. Bill Mc-
Gowan’s attractive cocktail-frock of
black French-romaine had a pleated side-
panel finished with a bow; her cloche
was white and gold.
☆ ☆ ☆
A novel Christmas idea which will
appeal to parents of young children is an
air-mail service from Santa Claus at the
North Pole. Pan-American Airways,
which conducts the service, provides the
special “Santa Claus” stationery and
envelopes, whilst the parents themselves
write the letters (with, of course, the
usual advice about not kicking Daddy in
the shins or throwing porridge at the
ceiling) and forge Santa’s signature. The
letters are then handed to the Pan-
American Airways office in Sydney and
are carried by P-A.A. to the North Pole,
where they are stamped, postmarked and
air-mailed back to the young addressees,
who can then prove to their sceptical
cobbers that the old man does, in fact,
exist. And all for 2s. 3d,, the price of the
postage from Fairbanks, Alaska. Dead-
line date is November 27.


Meetings
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COM-
PANY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SIXTY-SEVENTH
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
on Tuesday, 16th November, 1954,
immediately following the Extraordinary
General Meeting to be held at 3 p.m.
on that date.
BUSINESS
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1954.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors and to fix the
Directors’ remuneration. Messrs. Francis
Harmsworth Way and Gregory Blaxland
Hater retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. Yarwood, Vane & Co.,
with G. Mason Allard, Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer them-
selves accordingly. .
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
3rd November, 1954.
The name Is
(0 Galium s
the whisky Is
CT'CallumS
Scots OJhifky
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.2.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROBERT HARRIS late of
Edgecliff.—TAKE NOTICE that NANCY
ELIZABETH HARRIS has filed a Petitiou
for Divorce No. 2535 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First day of March 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WILSON & THOMSON, Soli-
citors, of 155 King Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN DANIEL SMITH late of Kemp-
sey—TAKE NOTICE that DULOIE
JOYCE SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3164 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the First
day of March 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WILSON & THOMSON, Soli-
citors. of 155 King Street, Sydney.—
0. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
THE CONVENTION
CHOSE.
■ ■
<s*>
TO BE SURE OF THE FACTS
NOT A TAPE RECORDER—NOT A CONVENTIONAL
DISC TYPE
The Dimafon proved an outstanding success in
recording accurately and instantly ALL business
discussed at the recent Laundry Convention.
Dimafon is renowned for ease of operation and
reliability—no part of your correspondence is
“fluffed” if you dictate direct to the Dimafon, your
secretary can stop, start or re-play the machine and
be definite that the transcribed notes are accurate
in every detail.
If your day is a nerve-racking race against time,
you owe it to yourself to investigate the Dimafon
method. It makes the stenographer’s work far
easier than transcribing from note-books ever could.
Measures only 4£in. high. Packs into handsome
carrying case.
Guaranteed and Serviced by
CHARTRES LTD.
POST THIS TO-DAY
Phone M 0425
[ To CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St, Sydney.
1 Please contact me and arrange to demonstrate the Dimalon.
J It is clearly understood that this places me under no obligation.
| NAME *
1 ADDRESS
L Hmm mmm pmm pmm fmm ""m P*"* *"* >"* ** *"* *"*
.D 1.2
SUNDRY
SHOWS
MIGHTY LIKE A NIGHTMARE
Having received a subpoena —
well, it looked like one —demand-
ing his presence at the Trocadero
last Friday night, present writer,
who has a considerable respect
for all legal documents, hastened
to the appointed place fearing,
as usual, the worst.
There, he was propelled into
an alien and incredible world
that had no counterpart any-
where in Sydney—or in this
world, for that matter. For
several hours (years it seemed)
he was subjected to sundry
indignities. He was pitchforked
by devils, pursued by a pack of
grizzly-bears, terrified by the
Abominable Snowman, assaulted
by pirates, tortured by a witch-
doctor, and all-hut scalped by
New Guinea headhunters.
Clowns ridiculed him and a
blonde in a bikini brought
blushes to his cheeks. Various
vixens, hellcats and hussies
sought to tear him apart.
Throughout the long ordeal
Bacchus, as well, never left him
alone, shouting such strange
commands as “Down the hatch!”
“Mud in your eye!” and “Skin
off your nose!” and doing his
damnedest to entice this inno-
cent into consuming assorted
firewater ranging from absinthe
to vodka, and including tots of
moonshine, Red Ned and
Auntie’s Ruin.
In the intervals between being
forced to “wet the whistle” and
being tormented by all sorts of
fantastic beings, the bewildered
deponent found himself
feverishly engaged in polkas,
mazurkas, two-steps, one-steps,
fandangoes and sword-dances in
the company of a troupe of
athletic ballerinas and a bevy
of Oriental dancing-girls.
Towards dawn, still baffled as
to the reason for the extra-
ordinary goings-on, the depon-
ent cornered the one seemingly
sane person in the establishment,
a gentleman in evening-dress,
and demanded an explanation
for all the jollification and other
queer happenings. It was only
then the deponent learned that
he was a guest of the committee
of the Artists’ Ball, which may
have explained why certain cave-
dwellers, archbishops, convicts
and spear-fishermen present bore
a faint resemblance to a number
of black-and-white artists who,
incidentally, own a priceless col-
lection of 1.0.U.s bearing
deponent’s signature.
Thereupon, fears banished,
deponent proceeded to catch up
with the 1799 other guests, and
finished so far ahead of the field
that, by noon on the following
Saturday, he woke up in a
fishing-boat at Coal and Candle
Creek, 20 miles north of the
G.P.0., when he should have
been safely at home at Lilli Pilli,
20 miles south of the city.
W. E. F.
K* ❖ +>
Toothpaste and Totem-poles
Trying to describe Jerry
Lester’s imitations of a “toob”
of toothpaste and a totem-pole
in the new bill at Sydney Tiv. is
rather like trying to describe a
spiral staircase without using
one’s hands. In fact, it would
seem that the only person really
capable of describing or imitating
Mr. Lester’s imitations is Mr.
Lester himself.
Lester is a very good come-
dian. He looks rather like an
adult Mickey Rooney, and that
probably is a handicap; his
humor, however, like himself,
skitters all over the place, light,
fast and furious, with, as they
say in the ads., never a dull
moment. There are times in his
busy dithering when he recalls,
faintly, the late Hugh Herbert
(in this commentator’s estima-
tion, one of the funniest men ever
set loose by Hollywood).
Between imitating film-stars
and giving a virtuoso perform-
ance on the yo-yo, Lester juggles
oranges, tennis-balls and cigar-
boxes ; then he whizzes off to
Darkest Africa, India and
Mexico, and then to some
“English” songs “Grade Fields
taught me in Las Vegas or
somewhere.” He dances, sings,
struggles with a trombone, and
works his extraordinarily expres-
sive phiz so well that one twitch
of an eyelid can get an hysterical
squeal from the gods.
After naming the foreman on
the night-shift at the building
of the Ark, and explaining
nuclear fission, he is on the verge
of winning the world’s biggest
radio-telephone quiz. “Tell me,
Mr. Lester,” says the compere in
accents fruity and horribly
familiar, “who was the first
man?” “Adam,” says Mr.
Lester triumphantly, “Right,”
says the compere. “You win.
But tell me, Mr. Lester, are we
all descended from Adam?”
“Yes,” says Mr. Lester. “Right
again,” says the compere, “and
that, unfortunately, makes you a
relative of the sponsor of this
quiz and, therefore, ineligible to
compete.”
Lester never loses his audience
for a second of the remarkably
long time he occupies on the
current Tiv. programme. Nor
do any of the others, for that
matter.
Two genial negroes, Bert
Howell and Frank Radcliffe,
have some fast and funny busi-
ness which gets unqualified
approval from the audience ; the
Chadells go through their
apparently effortless acrobatic
humor, or humorous acrobatics ;
Harry Jacobson makes one piano
sound like two in his report on
Ivor Moreton and Dave Kaye
playing “Tea for Two,” imi-
tates Iturbi’s concert style, and
then gives his own version of
Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in
Blue” ; and Samoans Atele and
Latu provide songs in their own
island style with guitar accom-
paniment, and then some tin-pan
stuff with an oildrum, stick and
string to go with it.
Altogether a tiptop bill, hand-
somely dressed and mounted,
with the Tiv. lovelies looking as
pert and lovely as ever; their
zebra number, with much pranc-
ing and pawing of the air and
twitching of tails’ earned
vociferous applause —due, no
doubt, to the Australian prede-
liction for anything that looks
like a pony.
* ❖ *
Baboons
Burned out of its old Mel-
bourne Olympia stamping-
ground, the Greatest Show on
Earth erected its big-top at
Batman - avenue, transpontine
Yarra, and with its advent
appeared the usual charges of
cruelty to animals.
This made the present com-
mentator think of the occasion,
years back, when he went up to
a theatre to investigate similar
charges against an entrepreneur
whose stock-in-trade was a
monkey, some small dogs and
a baboon. The owner laughed
when he heard what the visit
was about, handed over a thick
stick and told the investigator
to pretend to strike him. The
baboon instantly leapt with a
roar like an express-train, and
only a stout chain saved the
investigator from destruction.
The show started and the
investigator watched from the
wings. After the baboon had
done his stuff the entrepreneur
got busy with the dogs and
monkey and let the baboon go.
The frightful beast, with a
mouth like a rat-trap, wandered
aimlessly about the stage until
it caught sight of the investi-
gator. It promptly ambled up
and started sniffing him from
head to foot, taking tentative
nips at his clothing. The owner
observed the situation, stepped
across and whispered “Don’t
move; he won’t hurt you,” and
patted the trembling investigator
on the shoulder. Satisfied that
the investigator was a friend of
the entrepreneur, the baboon lost
interest and ambled off some-
where else, while the investiga-
tor lost interest in charges of
cruelty against animal-trainers.
Wirth’s is the same old show,
only bigger, better and faster.
Toni Smaha’s team of lovely
Australian Arabs do their re-
markable performance and look
proud of it, the balancing acts
are even more perilous and dex-
terously performed than ever,
and the big cats grumble and
growl at their trainer, but do
exactly what he’s wanting. If
there is any act as audacious as
the Kempinskis’, it is Bernardi’s
jeopardising of his life on the
high trapeze, and if the five
clowns aren’t as they used to be
it isn’t for lack of trying.
Three Devils
Paul Grinwis’s three-scene
ballet, “The Three Devils,” set
to a potpourri of music by
Offenbach, was given a success-
ful world-premiere on Friday
night at Sydney Empire.
The scene is Hades, the depic-
tion of which prospective
address should reassure those
who have reason to be doubtful
about the pay-off. Lucifer is a
benign enough fellow, and the
nether regions seem to have a
fair share of shapely she-devils,
always eager to welcome some
poor cove who missed out on
the Other Place.
But Lucifer, temporarily
annoyed by the appearance in
his magic mirror of Poupette,
who is given to tempting devils,
orders his three chief lieutenants
to capture the damsel and bring
her to him. They fail and re-
turn in disgrace to Lucifer, who
crowns them with dunce’s-caps
while their respective retinues
of sinners poke borak at them.
These cheerful doings are
thoroughly well matched by
Offenbach’s effervescent score
and by Paul Grinwis’s cleverly
devised choreography. Leon
Kellaway’s Lucifer has a comi-
cal dignity, and Kiril Vassil-
kovsky, John Auld and Paul
Grinwis make nimble comedy
as the three lieutenants. Des-
mond Meyers, as a fallen angel
trying to ingratiate himself with
Lucifer, produces some good
foolery and miming, and Kath-
leen Gorham is a lovely little
coquette.
The spirit of the piece is well
captured in Elaine Haxton’s
decor and costumes.
Peggy Sager danced with
classical grace and a touch of
serene coolness in “Swan Lake.
She demonstrates again and
again her ability to round-off
a movement with almost-perfect
art. The corps de ballet, too,
shows how admirably amenable
they are to discipline.
In “Graduation Ball” some of
the younger dancers show their
paces in both solo and con-
certed work. Paul Grinwis’s
flirtatious headmistress and
John Auld’s old general are
admirably drawn characterisa-
tions.
“Money From Home” (Prince
Edward, Sydney): Dean Martin
and Jerry Lewis set out to nobble
the favorite of a rich Turf event;
should he fail, Mr. Martin is due
to have his hide ventilated at
various points by the cohorts of
the gangster-gambler to whom,
as an unlucky punter, he is
deeply in the red. Need it be
mentioned that the fiddle-face’s
owner turns out to be a scrump-
tious sort, and that the rest of
the proceedings —which assay
reasonably high in laughs—are
devoted to confounding the g.-g.
and his tough boys.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
i i P” OLLOWING on the in-
f“—' formation in my letter
I of the fifteenth,” Brey-
ley began, falling into
his office jargon because this was
a matter very near his heart,
“my further investigations into
the affairs of your company
have led me to the conclusion
that an opportunity now pre-
sents itself for an astute person
of sound accounting experience
to take control, and with the co-
operation of a major share-
holder to ultimately achieve
possession.”
“Does all that mean,” Viki
wanted to know, “that you want
me to join with you in kicking
the others out?”
Breyley eyed her cautiously ;
he detected a lack of sympathy
with his ideals and aspirations.
Viki made an odd stretching
movement, wriggling her body
and at the same time gasping for
air. But she looked crossly at
Breyley when she caught him
watching her.
“Why didn’t you put this
proposition to Rhoda?”
“I thought that you, with your
real instinct for business, would
be a better partner in a touchy
affair like this.”
Viki examined hipi shrewdly.
“You put it to her and she
turned it down because she
didn’t want to do the low-down
on her own family.”
“Now, look,” Breyley pro-
tested, though he failed to hide
his guilt, “I could see she was
the wrong type as soon as I out-
lined the possibility to her.”
“Good old Rhoda!” Viki
laughed in an indifferent and
unappreciative way. “But never
mind, Gregory ; you didn’t tell
a very big lie, and business is
business. Only don’t tell any
more if you come in with me.
Well, I don’t think much of
your proposition. I want to stay
here and get on with this big
thing I’ve started.”
“You wouldn’t need to spend
much time up in Jindulla,” Brey-
ley told her, “except perhaps at
first, when things were moving
fast.”
“I don’t exactly fancy,” Viki
said, “being in a brawl against
my father: And I’m not at all
sure that you’d win against him.
You’ve had things a bit too easy
so far; catching him on the
wrong foot and having a traitor
in his camp to help you.”
“I’m not worried about that,”
Breyley said baldly. “He’s put
himself in wrong with the law;
and that’s a pretty big handi-
cap.”
Viki raised her eyebrows.
“I wouldn’t try blackmailing
him. A woman somehow or
other got into his room at a
hotel when he was staying in
Sydney, She tried it on him.
She not only got a good beating
out of it but a long sentence in
jail. No; forget about that,
Gregory. You come in with me
in my academy. I need a good
business-manager. I just wouldn’t
trust anyone I could get down
here ; everyone that’s applied so
far has turned out to have a
black mark somewhere in his
record,”
She stopped talking with a
gasp, and gave another convul-
sive wriggle.
“Oh God,” she cried despair-
ingly, getting up and making for
the bedroom, “I’ll have to get
out of this thing. I won’t be
long.”
Breyley put the money back
into the cigar-box in nicely
sorted bundles and then made
a careful note of the amount and
the numbers of the bigger bank-
notes in a notebook he found
in Viki’s handbag. After a
moment’s consideration he made
another note of it in his own
pocket-book. When Viki re-
turned she was wearing a semi-
transparent figured-nylon house-
gown which gave her a soft and
pliant appearance, very alluring
to a bachelor of Breyley’s
austere habits. He could not de-
cide, however, whether some-
thing dashingly gallant was
expected of him or whether he
should, for the time being,
remain sophisticatedly indiffer-
ent.
“I’ve written the total of your
cash in your notebook. Bank it
first thing tomorrow,” he ordered
her. “You should never carry
so much money about with
you.”
Viki sat close to him on the
couch and giggled.
“Another thing,” she said, as
if she’d thought it out while
she’d been away from him ; “our
Maestro Alphonse Stanley has
been working on me for a sort
of partnership ; I believe he’d
even marry me if he couldn’t
get it any other way. He’s very
keen. I’ll have to make up my
mind about that soon; and
pacify him if I refuse, and fight
off the signorina if I accept.”
“You couldn’t have him in it;
he’d ruin it in a week.” Breyley’s
indignation was excessive on
both counts. “And you couldn’t
think of marrying a worn-out
old geezer like him.”
“If you’d heard about his
reputation you wouldn’t call him
a worn-out old geezer.” Her
tone grew coyly secretive. “I
wouldn’t say that being married
to him would be any hardship.
But I will say that there are
rocks ahead as far a$ the partner-
ship proposal goes. Now, if I
had you running the business
side I’d just be able to load all
those unpleasant decisions on to
you! ‘My manager, Mr. Brey-
ley, says it would be most inad-
visable ; you may go and get an
explanation from him if you
wish!' ” She burst into a laugh.
“It would be fun ; wouldn’t it?”
Breyley, gaunt with apprehen-
sion during her talk about Stan-
ley, beamed with relief.
“I’d handle them,” he assured
Viki. “I’d take all that sort of
worry off your shoulders. But
of course I couldn’t just say I’d
come in with you ; you haven’t
even said how much I’d get out
of it.”
“The maestro gets forty-five
pounds a week.” Viki screwed
around in her seat so she could
study Breyley. “Since his name
really makes the business, I
don’t think anyone else could be
paid as much as him, no matter
how valuable he was.”
Breyley, cold and quiet,
affected to be deeply wounded,
“He can’t increase your pro-
fits ten times the way you your-
self said I could.”
“I was speaking figuratively
when I said that,” Viki explained
with equal calm. “If I paid
anyone more than Alphonse he’d
leave me, and then I’d have
nothing. How would you work
that out?”
“All right, make me an offer
of forty a week and ten per
cent, of any increase in profit.”
“Five per cent.”
“Nothing less than ten.”
“Nothing more than five.”
They looked in each other’s
eyes with hard calculation. Then
Viki’s face broke into a smile.
“Have some more beer,
Gregory?”
She had to lean across him to
reach the bottle, and when it
slipped from her fingers she had
to press her body hard against
him.
Breyley wrapped his arms
round her, to make the enthral-
ling discovery that she had very
little on under her housegown.
But the pliant body stiffened,
and Viki’s face came round to
stare into his.
“Are you forgetting about
Rhoda?”
A hardness about Viki warned
him not to tell any more lies
about her sister, though he could
have said that, things being as
they were, all was virtually over
between them. Viki withdrew
herself from his grasp, leaving
him with the impression that a
decent girl couldn’t trust him in
her flat.
“Now I might be allowed to
have another glass of beer,” she
said; and continued with the
previous argument as though
there had been no interruption,
“No more than five per cent.”
“I’d need ten,” Breyley de-
dared, “to be sure I’d be im-
proving my position.”
“You’d be able to live with
your parents instead of staying
at a boarding-house. That
should save you pounds a week.”
“Not with my parents,” Brey-
ley said. “They taught me all
the important things about
money that I know.”
“Well,” Viki said with a
cheerful finality, “that seems
about as far as we can get. It’s
late and I need my sleep.”
Breyley stood up and ruefully
surveyed Viki in her promising
housegown.
“I suppose I’ll still be able to
get a bus.”
Viki glanced at her watch
and gave an exclamation:
“Oh dear, you are unlucky,
it’s later than I thought. You’ll
have to walk all the way to the
Cross.”
Breyley was downcast. She
took pity on him.
“Look, you can sleep on the
couch. You can use some of
Alec’s pyjamas that he leaves
here for the odd times he uses
the flat. No one need ever
know you’ve spent the night
here.”
She disappeared into the bed-
room. For a while Breyley
could hear her moving about;
then the devastating sound of
her bed creaking.
“Oh, by the way,” she called
out to him, “if you decide
during the night to accept my
offer you can come in and tell
me; it will make me sleep
better. Goodnight.”
Breyley lay down on the
couch and worked furiously on
the most unorthodox balance-
sheet he had ever drawn up.
They got themselves a hearty
breakfast in the morning and in
the bus on the way to the city,
when they were discussing de-
tails of Breyley’s new position,
Viki was surprisingly distant
and businesslike.
Breyley anticipated no diffi-
culty. He was used to invading
the offices of all sorts of busi-
ness houses with a troop of
underlings for his audits. In no
time he knew twice as much
about the concern as the pro-
prietors ; able to show them
where their costs were unrea-
sonably high ; where their profits
were leaking away ; capable of
distinguishing the efficient from
the inefficient depart ment-
managers, and of pointing the
finger of suspicion at trusted
persons.
But at the Elite College of
Musical and Dramatic Art,
Breyley was shocked to find
there were no “books.” Certain
of the highly praised staff were
expected to keep lists of this and
that, but as an addition to their
principal duties as music-
teachers.
“Keep the pupils moving,”
was Viki’s guiding principle, so
firmly insisted on that no
student was ever allowed to sit
waiting his turn with a particular
teacher. Even if he was learning
the ’cello and the only teacher
unengaged at the time was voice-
production he’d be given a quick
“extra” (at an additional fee) in,
say, stage-deportment.
Viki had found in a long
career as a music-teacher that
music-students were beguilingly
honest, and more likely to pay
for lessons they hadn’t had than
to try to evade their dues. Hence,
even in her new big venture, the
office work had been subordinate
and perfunctory: hence, when
Breyley asked expectantly for
journal, ledger, day-book and
cash-book, those holy scriptures
of the accountancy profession,
all that could be provided for
him were tiny notebooks Viki
carried in her handbag, made
up from memory during bus
rides to work ; or notes on loose
pieces of paper or even used
envelopes.
No receipts given to students
for fees, or expected from staff
paid in cash. Nothing for Brey-
ley, or the Taxation Department,
either, for that matter, to get
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments: —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina.
Breyley. — Town accountant ;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Hopes through her to get control
of Kraftmann’s business.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. — Other daughter ; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
(“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. — Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Stefanik. —A New Australian
dealer in “Old Masters,” has
sued A lec for paintings
destroyed in a car-collision.
Kraftmann has locked Alec and
Stefanik in the silo to settle the
matter, and they have agreed that
Stefanik shall have free lodg-
ings on the property and
materials supplied until he has
painted some more “Old
Masters.”
Breyley has prevailed upon
Rhoda, who thinks he wants to
marry her, to bring the account-
books of her father’s family-
company to his lodgings. Brey-
ley then tells Kraftmann that he
has been withholding the divi-
dends of the rest of the family,
and threatens him with disclo-
sure. Rhoda asks Breyley for
the return of her father’s
account-books.
He refuses, and leaves for
Sydney to get Viki’s help towards
controlling the company.
Stefanik, Johnny and the young
Kraftmanns concoct a letter
from Rhoda to lure Breyley
back. Meanwhile Breyley has
become dazzled by the prospects
of Viki’s singing-business, and
also of Viki, who has invited
him to her King’s Cross flat.


TUCKER&CO.
PTY. LTD.
ESTB. 1838
WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS OF . . .
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
’’The Brandy of Distinction'
VVM-Mfs
WHISKY
“The Preferred Whisky”
CAPSTAN
Old Havj)
RUM
The Spirit of the Sugar Cane”
BOLS
V.O. GENEVER
and LIQUEURS
••WORLD FAMOUS SINCE «575 '*
(SjfUM
THE CHOICE
OF
Teacher’s
HIGHLAND CREAM
''Perfection of
Old Scotch Whisky”
mipl
EXPORT
LAGER BEER
“ Lager at its Best
their hands on ; no workmen’s-
compensation insurance, no
other insurance of any kind.
“Cigar-box accountancy,” Brey-
ley called it in scorn.
But Viki was equally scorn-
ful when he presented her with
his first report and list of
stationery, clerical assistance,
office space and equipment
needed.
“That’s where all those extra
profits of yours will go ; in run-
ning a huge office full of useless
girls hammering at typewriters.”
She was startled, almost horri-
fied. She might, after all, have
made a terrible mistake.
“I should have stipulated that
if the profits go down your
salary goes down, too.”
“Don’t worry,” Breyley said
reassuringly. “Accurate busi-
ness methods pay. Our whole
modern civilisation is based on
that conception.”
Viki still had her doubts.
“Perhaps that’s what’s wrong
with modern civilisation,” she
said.
Breyley had been at the
academy for only a day, poking
his head in everywhere to find
out what was going on ; asking
difficult questions about money,
about hours worked, of peopje
Viki had trusted implicitly for
the unbusinesslike reason that
she knew that they liked her ;
making suggestions, which had
the flavor of orders, for running
things in a streamlined, organised
manner instead of Viki’s mix-
ture of makeshift and opportun-
ism.
Viki began to sense a differ-
ence in the atmosphere. Her
father would have said that “the
place is like a stableful of
horses when someone lets in a
donkey.” Staff members who
had never failed to smile on
meeting her about the place
hurried past with worried faces ;
arguments broke out over who
should have done what; and
that spontaneous eagerness to
do anything Viki asked, in or
outside of professional duties,
within time or overtime, had
cooled to a calculated and con-
ditional agreement.
Only the two star teachers
were unaffected. Breyley had
been ordered not to interfere
with them ; and this order he
had been content to respect for
the time being, knowing that it
was only a matter of time and
his office would have the con-
trolling hand in everything.
“Just beginning to get the feel
of things,” Breyley said to Viki,
grabbing her arm familiarly and
possessively as they and others
of tha> staff were leaving at clos-
ing-time. “Tomorrow I’ll start
to make things hum.”
Viki jerked herself free with
an unnecessary flourish for all
to see.
“Tomorrow you’ll stay in your
office, writing your silly figures
in all your useless books,” Viki
said with dangerous distinctness.
“You handle the money and
leave the staff to me. You don’t
know how to behave with sensi-
tive, artistic people. You’re
worse than a bull in a china-
shop. You’re nothing but a
wild Irishman that’s been taught
to add up a few figures ; a thing
you could teach a chimpanzee.”
Breyley treated the outburst
with the tolerant superiority of
the trained businessman who
knows that he knows best. He
managed to separate her from
the others because of the limited
capacity of the ancient lift. “I
was thinking perhaps,” he said
archly, trying to recapture her
arm again, “that I ought to come
to your flat again tonight for
another long business talk.”
“Don’t be stupid,” Viki
snapped at him. “Do you think
I want to get myself talked
about; letting people see you go
home with me?”
Breyley did not protest the
illogical contrast of this with
her attitude of the previous
night. Instead he turned to busi-
ness, which was always as near
to love with him as poetry is
with others.
“I didn’t come across any
contracts with your principals.
You’ll want them before we start
on our advertising campaign. We
can’t have them in a position to
walk-out on us when we get all
our new pupils, or stand over us
for a rise in pay. We’d be in
trouble in a big way. I’ll draw
some up ready for tomorrow and
spring it on them. A long term,
with such a thumping big
penalty-clause that they’ll never
dare walk out.”
“I said leave them alone! ”
Viki stormed at him in real
anger.
They were out in the street
now and joining a group from
the academy at the bus-stop.
“Your bus is up that way,
Breyley wrapped his arms around her, to make the enthralling discovery that she had very little on.
isn’t it?” Viki asked him
pointedly. “We’ll see you in
the morning.” Then she added,
gathering several of her trusted
staff to her by the arms in the
exuberant manner which had
attracted them so forcibly, “But
not too much of you: I’ll
promise you that.”
Yet next morning when Viki
arrived at the studios, late-ish as
becomes an artist, she found
Breyley there full of bounce. He
had already arranged for the
rental of an additional large
room for his own use, had pro-
cured several desks, two type-
writers and two girls to operate
them.
The girls were as standardised
as their machines, having a slick
and facile youthful beauty, the
ability to take dictation, write
shorthand, type and carry on
conversations consisting almost
entirely of such current expres-
sions as “I’ll say,” “You’re
telling me” and “Oh, yeah!”
Sheets of typescript came flut-
tering out of their machines like
snowflakes, which Breyley seized
upon and reread with all the
ardor of a creator.
“Listen to this,” he said to
Viki, as enthusiastic as a poet
with a masterpiece, “and if there
are parts you don’t agree with,
please allow me to finish before
voicing your objections:
Alphonse James Stanley,
hereinafter to be known as the
contractee, agree to undertake
and perform the appended
duties to the best of my ability
subject only to medically certi-
fied illnesses, hurricanes, earth-
quakes and acts of God, for a
period of six years, and I hereby
pledge that should I fail to keep
the aforesaid agreement for the
full term, I shall forfeit to the
Elite College of Musical and
Dramatic Art the sum of one
thousand pounds for each year
or part thereof of the unfulfilled
term. And I further agree that
this engagement may be ter-
minated by the contractor, the
Elite College of Musical and
Dramatic Art, at any time
within that period by service of
one month’s notice.”
“Stop! Stop it! ” Viki shouted
above his cataract of words.
Breyley was shocked. He held
up an impressively warning
finger. “One moment, Miss
Kraftmann.” Then he addressed
his girls in suave tones:
“Dorothy, would you mind get-
ting this pile of letters to the
post. Joyce, run down to the
stationer’s, please, and get six
of the largest manilla envelopes
they have.”
Then, as soon as the door had
closed behind them, he said
admonishingly:
“No quarrelling in front of my
girls, please. Very bad for office
discipline.”
“What do you mean?” Viki
demanded. “Getting so high-
handed overnight. Didn’t I tell
you to leave the staff alone?”
“If I’m to stay on with you I
want to have some assurance
that this isn’t a cardboard con-
cern that can be burst apart any
day. It’s for your own good.
Where would you be if Stanley
and the signorina suddenly
walked out on you?”
“I’m not at all concerned
about that,” Viki said with
dignity. “I can always persuade
Alphonse to do what I want him
to do.”
Breyley made an exclamation
compounded of anger and em-
barrassment.
“Bah, you can’t stake all
you’ve got on that sort of thing.”
His face brightened with a new
idea. “Suppose you wanted to
sell the place. Suppose we build
it up the way I think it can be
built up, until we occupy the
whole building. Suppose some-
one offers you fifty or a hundred
thousand for it as a going con-
cern. What are you going to
do about Stanley then? Make a
separate clause guaranteeing that
you’ll siren him into stopping
on?”
“Be careful what you’re say-
ing, Gregory,” Viki warned
him.
“I’m sorry, Viki, I’m very
sorry. I just get too enthusiastic
about making this the biggest
and soundest singing-factory
ever. I’ll tell you in a minute
what we can do. I’ve got facts ;
I’ve got figures. I think we will
run the whole building in a
year.”
Viki temporised.
“Alphonse would never sign
that contract. He hates con-
tracts because he’s been cheated
so often.”
“There’s an angle I’ve thought
of.” Breyley was undismayed.
“I’ve got everything set for a
big advertising-campaign. I’m
going to build him up as big as
Bing Crosby. On the radio, on
the movie-screens, in the news-
papers. He ought to be grateful
for that! He ought to come our
way a bit then! Heh?”
“I don’t think so. He sneers
at my advertising.”
“Not at mine, though ; here,
just look at some copy I’ve done.
This one:
‘‘Alphonse Stanley, Giant of
Opera and Concert-hall, the
World Supreme Voice of his
Day, now the Supreme Master
at imparting the Mystery of
Vocal Splendor. Alphonse
Stanley the Maestro can make
you a World Figure, too.”
Viki tried not to flinch.
“I don’t think he’ll like it,”
she said.
“It is not supposed to please
him but the public. If he’s got
any sense he will like it, be-
cause of the results it will bring.
Say, listen” —Breyley was sud-
denly intense—“do you know
what I’ve done? There’ll be a
rush of pupils. I’ve got options
over all the studios on this floor.
That building-manager and I
get on like twins.
“Most of these teachers have
no lease at all; only rent from
week to week, or month to
month. The longest any of them
take is a year. Now none of
them can get a renewal without
my agreement. And I’ve thought
about more teachers, too—-
when these people find they can’t
have their studios I’ll have a
pretty good lever for persuading
them to work for us.”
Viki’s eyes had been opening
wider and wider ; her old ad-
miration for Breyley returning.
She could remember when she’d
first taken a single room in the
building and been snubbed by
some of the long-standing and
celebrated habitudes as a no-
body. When she’d had her
earlier successes they had
regarded her as an upstart; and
now that she had her academy
they jeered at her as a low-
browed Philistine. She smiled
happily.
Then she said with one of her
quick transitions: “I still don’t
think Alphonse will sign.”
“I’ll handle him with kid-
gloves. I’ll send the ads. to him
to look at, one at a time. My
girls will take them in alternately
so he can get a good eyeful. I
always believe in having good-
lookers ; always pays off. Then
I’ll send a memo about the ex-
pected increase in business, with
a hint that if he’ll co-operate
he’ll get a bonus for his extra
work. That will be all right,
won’t it? Finally, when he’s
ready to eat out of my hand, in
goes the contract.”
“I don’t think it would ts
wise. It could easily bring about
the very thing you want to
avoid.”
Breyley made the exasperated
gesture of a man driven to a
step he has been trying to avoid
for the sake of the other per-
son’s delicately considered feel-
ings.
“Now you force me to it,” he
said, letting Viki see how he was
blaming her. He pulled a letter
from his pocket. “I got this
from Rhoda this morning. She’s
changed her mind and is willing
to come in with me. And she
says the family is resigned to me
taking control and is willing to
talk the whole thing Over peace-
ably.”
“That doesn’t sound like my
family,” Viki said, immediately
suspicious. “Let me see it . . .
Well, it’s the family’s notepaper,
but why is it typewritten? Rhoda
practically never uses the type-
writer. Still, it looks like her
signature. And that nasty little
{Continued on next page)


Now! ONE Brushing with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM
REMOVES ENZYMES
that cause Bad Breath
and Tooth Decay!
Only the Colgate way
does all three!
CLEANS YOUR BREATH
while it
CLEANS YOUR TEETH
and STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
m
L.TI
mi
mmM
NOW COLGATE'S ACTS INSTANTLY
ON DECAY PRODUCING ENZYMES!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream instantly
removes enzyme-producing Bacteria, and it is enzymes that
produce tooth decay acids! But—if you really want to
prevent decay, be sure to follow the Colgate way. Scien-
tific tests showed that the Colgate way of brushing the
teeth right after eating stopped more decay for more
people than ever before reported in all dentifrice history!
ONE BRUSHING WITH COLGATE’S
STOPS BAD BREATH INSTANTLY!
Your very first brushing
with Colgate’s each morn-
ing removes up to 85% of
the bacteria that cause bad
breath! Yes, scientific tests
prove that Colgate Dental
Cream stops bad breath
instantly in 7 out of 10
cases that originate in the
mouth!
BRUSHING TEETH AFTER EATING
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year
period showed a startling
reduction in tooth decay for
those who brushed their
teeth with Colgate’s right
after eating! In fact, X-rays
showed no new cavities
whatever for almost 2 out
of 3 people.
ream
a
den taL
o
r ibbon
BUY THE BIG
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE
AND SAVE 1/sd.
Gives You a Cleaner, Fresher
Mouth All Day!
AMERICA’S LARGEST—AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST—
THE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Between
Ourselves
f
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Can you tell a 6 big s
Scotch from a
‘small’ Scotch?
0 ye
//.
BEIXS
‘OO% SCOTCH WHISKY
WSTIUEO AHO BLI* D * P
'j IN ICOUAHO »
D| STILLERS«»«SCOT l> '
?PCCiAL RES|
►ROOUCT or sc °’^^!cis
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies —and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Eell&Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
‘P.S.’ That looks like her hand-
writing, too. ‘Did you know
that Viki has sold a lot of her
shares?’ Now you’ll want to
rush back to Rhoda, I suppose?”
Breyley smiled indulgently.
“Of course I don’t necessarily
propose to accept Rhoda’s offer,
unless things are made too diffi-
cult for me here. Either pro-
position is a full-time job, and I
don’t want to let you down.”
“It’s kind of you to think of
me” Viki said without apparent
sarcasm. She had learned to
practise restraint and patience
in the interests of her profes-
sion. “Now I suppose you think
I’ll let you go ahead with your
plans for handcuffing Alphonse
and the signorina. Well, you
can try, but it’s entirely on your
own responsibility. If it causes
any trouble I’ll denounce you
for actipg without my authority.”
“That’ll be O.K. with me,”
said Breyley, sounding buzzers
to recall his girls. “Now I’m
going to lay this little town flat
on its face.”
Five minutes later the maestro
was interrupted at an audition
by a young and pretty girl. Not
knowing that she must wait until
she was asked to speak, she
handed him a typed sheet of
paper and recited in a high,
colorless, nasal voice:
“Mr. Breyley’s compliments,
sir. And would you please read
this proposed radio advertise-
ment and offer any suggestion
you might wish to make.”
Alphonse Stanley stopped
shuddering as her voice ceased,
took the paper, gave it one hasty
glance, put it face-down on the
table beside him, then said to his
pupil “Go on, girl.”
The office-girl teetered from
toes to heels, watching the audi-
tion with no apparent compre-
hension of what was going on.
Then, catching the surprised and
furious look on Stanley’s face,
she spun round like an auto-
maton and disappeared.
“What did he say?” Breyley
asked anxiously.
“He never said a word.”
“Must have been satisfied,”
Breyley decided.
Thereafter throughout the day
Stanley was interrupted by the
two girls at regular intervals.
Each time he snatched the pro-
posed advertisement more
rudely, scanned it more hastily,
slapped it down more angrily
and flinched more obviously
from the girls’ accents.
“What did he say about that
one?” Breyley queried, ever-
interested.
“Not a word, Mr. Breyley.”
“Must have been satisfied with
that, too.”
Breyley’s tactful memo he
didn’t read at all. But the next
girl to come in carried an un-
sheathed fountain-pen and the
contract he was to sign. “Mr.
Breyley’s compliments, sir, and
will you kindly put your signa-
ture where the document is
marked in pencil.”
This time Stanley took the
trouble to read the paper care-
fully. While he read it he made
several frightening exclamations.
The student and the accompanist
shuddered. Even the otfice-girl
understood that he was not
pleased. When he finished he
looked up, too moved for mere
speech. His eyes searched the
room as if for a weapon, but
finding none he slowly handed
the document back to the girl;
as an afterthought he added the
pile of advertisements and Brey-
ley’s unread tactful memo. Then
he spoke in a voice which so
frightened the office-girl that she
trembled:
“Down the passage to the
right you will come upon two
opposite doors, one marked
‘Ladies’ and the other ‘Gentle-
men.’ Choose whichever you
wish, only drop these pestilential
papers into the receptacle you
will find therein. Then pull the
chain hard.”
The girl rushed out and did
as she was commanded. When
her minute brain started work-
ing again, fearful of what Mr.
Breyley might think of her, she
ran out of the building and
caught a tram home to talk over
the terrible situation with her
mother.
Meanwhile Stanley was saying
to the pallid singer:
“You may go. I’m doing no
more work today.”
And to the shaken accom-
panist ;
“Tell Miss Kraftmann I want
to see her immediately, and
order a taxi to be at the door in
twenty minutes.”
Half an hour later, when
Breyley decided that he ought
to make a personal investigation,
he was told by resentful and
reluctant staff-members that the
maestro and Miss Kraftmann
had departed together in a taxi
ten minutes earlier, leaving a
message that they wouldn’t be
back for several days. The sig-
norina had. insulted everyone on
the premises and handed in her
resignation. The place, said
Breyley’s informants, was in
complete confusion, possibly
wrecked for ever.
CHAPTER XVI
T ESSER men than Breyley
might have taken the first
plane back to what the denizens
of the academy (recognising only
one town in N, S. Wales apart
from Sydney) called “the coun-
try.”
But Breyley, still peppered
with delicious amorous tinglings,
somewhat reduced by the quarrel
with Viki at the end of his first
day at the academy, but revived
by her admiration on the second,
could not believe either that the
academy was ruined, or, man-
like, that Viki was being so
speedily unfaithful to him.
He spent a good deal of that
night phoning her flat. But he
got no answer, or from Stanley’s
either ; though here a mechanical
reaction to his calls, confirmed
by the girl at “Complaints,” gave
him reason to suspect that the
phone had been deliberately left
off its rest.
Those of the staff who showed
up on the following morning
looked upon Breyley as upon a
murderer come to gloat at the
scene of his crime. They gave
him to understand that if there
was any hope of salvaging the
academy the main condition, as
far as their co-operation was
concerned, was his immediate
removal to a distant place.
With the idea of getting at
least some proportion of his eggs
into another basket, he gave
instructions to the girls in the
office to carry on with the books
until his return, left a message
for Viki saying that he would be
away for a day or two, but ready
to return at a moment’s notice
from her, and caught the after-
noon plane for Jindulla.
The first impression one gets,
flying out from Sydney into the
Riverina, is that the immense,
sprawling city will never end;
then that the whole of the State
is a wild area of hills, rocks and
scrub uninhabited by man. When
the rolling grasslands of the
wool-country slide underneath
and then the astonishingly
huckabacked patterns of wheat-
fields, one is filled with a com-
passion for the people who live
in such remote places—even the
larger towns are only little
squares of built-up children’s
blocks, where nothing could ever
happen.
It was this view from the air,
Breyley persuaded himself, that
gave him such a feeling of de-
pression; not the threatened
wreck of the academy nor the
falsity of Viki; certainly not
any premonition of evil be-
falling him upon his arrival.
When the telegram announc-
ing his visit arrived at the Kraft-
mann homestead some diplo-
macy worthy of Stefanik's gifts
was immediately called for.
“It is necessary,” Stefanik told
Mrs. Kraftmann and Rhoda,
who were naturally the first to
know about the telegram, and
extremely surprised and curious,
too, “to be sure that Mr. Kraft-
mann does not get to hear of
this visit. He might meet him
at the gate with a gun and chase
him away before we have a
chance to use reason upon him.”
“You’re quite right,” said
Mrs. Kraftmann. “I can see
that you should talk to Gregory
first.”
Stefanik turned to Rhoda, full
of delight in the intrigue, and,
seeing her apprehension, made a
long face at her.
“Mr, Kraftmann must be
taken away by you and your
mother until we other men have
Breyley convinced. If your
father is to start quarrelling with
him it will soon be clear that
Breyley has your father’s books,
and that he thinks he can black-
mail him. You don’t want to
see that happen, do you? There
would be murder done, I think.”
“Oh no, you’re quite right,”
Rhoda agreed, sickly white with
nervousness. “I want to be right
out of it. I can’t face Gregory
until I know whether he’s been
plotting with Viki.”
“We’ll find all that out,”
Johnny said, with a menace in
his voice which could have be-
trayed the kind of reception
they had arranged for Breyley,
“We’d better go and talk over
our arrangements,” Alec sug-
gested.
The men went out, Mrs.
Kraftmann and Rhoda turned
to each other in that feminine
mixture of admiration for the
handiworks of man and com-
plete mistrust of the likely
outcome.
“It’s going to be fun,” Johnny
said, bending in a wrestler’s
crouch, with clutching hands, “to
see Breyley coming up in his car
expecting us all to surrender —
then to find out what’s really
going to happen to him.”
»Not so funny, really,” Alec
rebuked his lack of sophistica-
tion. “j t ’ s not always so easy
t o start hostilities. It reminds
me 0 f a time a party of us were
reconnoitring ahead in a jeep
near Bardia. We came across a
sor t of hotel and decided to have
a drink . It was a goo d place
and we ii ked j tj S o we stayed
quite a while. In another room
we could hear a party having a
good time, too.
“After a while one of our
blokes wante d to go down the
back. He opened the door, and
there was the other party—half
a dozen Italian soldiers having a
good time like we were. It
seemed just impossible for us,
and for them, too, to start shoot-
ing, so we shut the door and
went on drinking until they left,
That’s the way I’ll feel when
Breyley comes,”
“I would have had a crack at
them,” declared Johnny, who
always carried a firearm of some
kind. “And I’m quite willing to
put a lasso round Breyley’s neck
the minute he steps out of his
car.”
“it is best,” Stefanik decided,
“that I handle this situation.
You, Alec, you take your family
for a drive. Take your father
and your mother and sister in
the car to see that new fence that
Mr. Kraftmann has been want-
ing to show them. The blood-
thirsty Johnny may hide at the
ga te into the avenue with his
lasso in case Breyley escapes me.
j wd i s hoot off that noisy big
rifle of yours when you are to
return.”
s
{To be concluded next week)


Aklmh
To ond throughE[|R()Pf
on your way to LONDON
Fly QANTAS-8.0.A.C. Kangaroo Service—
and see both East and West, on a leisurely trip
with stop-overs—in the East, the Mediterranean
or in Europe. It costs no more in air fare to
stop-over —you simply pay for hotel accommodation.
Fly all the way by pressurized Constellations and
Super Constellations—enjoying QANTAS-8.0.A.C.
world-famous service. Choice of alternative routes
across Ind iA and the Mediterranean. 6 services
weekly. Through service takes only 3| days.
Consult your Travel Agent.
STOPOVERS
may be arranged at
all ports en route —
Djakarta, Singapore,
Bangkok, Calcutta,
Colombo, Bombay,
Karachi, Beirut,
Cairo, Rome,
Zurich, Frankfurt—
and also your choice of
a wide variety of
combinations of
these additional cities
across the Continent —
Nice, Marseilles,
Barcelona, Madrid,
Paris, Geneva,
Milan, Basle,
Brussels, Amsterdam,
Dusseldorf, Cologne,
Nuremburg, Stuttgart,
Linz, Munich,
Vienna, Salzburg,
Istanbul, Salonika,
Athens, Naples.
fti
uai
ml
mmjSA
ST me=tt
, a
ft
S
Take your choice—
De-luxe First class
or economical
Tourist Services.
OANTASBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. (Inc. in Q’land.)
in parallel with 8.0. A. C.
34 Years’ Flying Experience
The CORRIDOR
by NANCY KEESING
THE wards of Annanville
Hospital were built at
right-angles to a corridor
which ran their length.
There were seven wards,
spaced sufficiently far apart to
catch sunlight on both sides,
with strips of garden growing
in between them. On the ward
side of the corridor open arches
at shoulder-height were let into
the brick wall; these were
equipped with canvas blinds
which could be let down in bad
weather.
On the other, and less well-
aspected, side lay the administra-
tive buildings, operating-theatres,
outpatients’ department and
clinics. X-ray room and so forth.
A covered causeway at the
eastern end led to the nurses’
home in a separate building.
At the western end were
kitchens, laundry, rooms for
day-staff and a small brick cot-
tage which had once been the
farmhouse of the Annanville
Estate, and now housed two
resident medical-officers. The
domestic-staff quarters, garages,
chapel and mortuary clustered
apart near the boundary-fence
of the grounds.
A watchman, Dinny Parsons,
patrolled the outside buildings
and grounds at intervals through-
out the night, but seldom came
into the ward-corridor. The
night-sister on duty walked its
length many times on her tours
of inspection of the wards, each
staffed at night by a trainee-
nurse.
Sister Ingle, in ten years at
Annanville, had never become
quite accustomed to the corri-
dor. In winter, when draughts
knifed along its concreted floor,
or in summer, when, after a hot
day, it was usually pleasantly
cool, on wet nights, when the
flapping canvas failed to keep
out anything but the directest
force of rain—in any season, she
found it slightly disturbing to
stand at one end and survey its
dimly lit perspectives.
She was not afraid, neither did
she find it eerie, but she could
never entirely believe in its deser-
tion. One could not see clearly
from end to end—the inadequate
lighting of itself formed shadows
and blind-spots, and, in the dark-
ness Sister Ingle was irrationally
convinced that, some time, some-
where, along its length, some-
thing would happen. But it never
did. Nothing more, that is, than
a scurrying nurse racing to or
from a ward ; a doctor on duty
smoking a brief restful cigarette,
or old Dinny Parsons, the watch-
man, on one of his rare incur-
sions.
There had been occasions
when she believed she had seen
a shape in the distance, but these
things always resolved into
something ordinary: a shadow, a
bundle of linen:
“Nurse! Nurse Arrowsmith.
How long is that repulsive
laundry-bag to endanger limbs
outside your ward?”
“I’m sorry, Sister, I was on
my way to the chute and I heard
a bell.”
“Anything wrong?”
“No, but I had to . . .”
“Very well. Nurse. I’ll be in
to see you soon. I’ll take it
down to the chute on my way to
Four.”
“Thanks, Sister.”
Except for her long-sustained
expectation of events in the
corridor, and her fondness for
trivial romantic novels of the
sentimental and so-they-lived-
happily sort, there was little of
fancy in Sister Ingle’s make-up.
Her life was very bare of inci-
dent, but it contented her. She
was modest, practical and cheer-
ful and a good nurse provided
her work did not require much
imagination.
Having few social demands on
her time, she never objected to
night-duty ; the extra money
was a comfortable insurance
against old age, and she fre-
quently worked as night-sister
for six months or so at a stretch.
Since her training-days she had
worked as a nurse, always in
hospitals. She was now fifty-
two and had no desire to move
from Annanville.
Sister Ingle must have been a
thickset jolly girl, just as she
was a sturdy cheerful woman.
She had never loved or been
loved in her life, or, seriously,
felt the lack of love. There are
far more women like her than
people realise, because so many
of them, comprehending vaguely
that they have missed something,
invent romantic, sad stories
about themselves. Miss Ingle
was at once both too honest and
too placid to bother.
/"\NE Wednesday night in
July she left the nurses’
home a little later than usual
after her midnight-coffee. Some-
times she took this in a ward,
but at the moment she did not
care particularly for any of the
girls on duty, and her novel was
interesting. Having heated her
drink in the pantry, she carried
the cup up to her room. About
ten minutes later, as she was
leaving, she heard a sound of
crying from one of the sisters’
bedrooms: from behind Mary
Parridge’s door.
She recalled, then, that while
she was busied in the pantry, she
had half-seen the girl coming
through the street door. Vaguely,
too, she remembered having
heard voices when she first
entered the home ; a girl’s and
one (or two?) men speaking out-
side. But the younger sisters
often used the entrance-porch
for saying good-night, frequently
at length, and, naturally, one
paid no attention.
Sister Ingle now stood, an
elderly stout figure with her
hand on the doorknob of Sister
Parridge’s room. She decided
nqt to interfere and moved
away. The young, she thought,
usually preferred to cope with
their own problems. She rinsed
her cup in the pantry, picked up
a torch and went along the
causeway to the corridor, at the
entrance to which she stopped,
a moment, shrugging her flannel
cape more snugly around her
shoulders against the frosty cold.
Standing still, she realised that
something was happening down
at the western end. Not only
were blurred and indistinct
shapes moving, there were
sounds. She forgot about Sister
Parridge’s distress and walked
briskly towards the mystery
shining her torch. Her
rubber - soled shoes made
almost no sound. She did not
call out because of the numerous
other occasions when what she
had expected mysteries,
violences, unpleasantnesses
had proved to be perfectly ex-
plainable phenomena. Sister
Ingle, product of long training
and her unimaginative nature,
was not scared, but alert, as she
moved forward.
T'WO men were fighting.
1 Quietly enough, but grunting
from time to time. This, then,
was the noise she had heard, this
and their boots hitting the floor
and walls. One man was on the
ground and trying to rise. The
other straddled him. It was
“Dr. Perry!” He wore his
white ward-jacket, it being his
evening on call. An hour before
she had helped him give a trans-
fusion. He seemed neither to
hear her nor to notice the torch-
beam she was directing on his
face. The man on the floor
twisted free. Dr. Perry punched
him horribly hard across his
mouth.
“Dr. Perry!” Really she had
no idea what to do. It did not
occur to her that the man on
the ground might be an in-
truder: that she should run for
old Dinny. She had never wit-
nessed a fight before, but she
knew, somehow, that the grey-
suited person now sprawled un-
conscious was no stranger to
Dr. Perry, who was standing up
and appeared to notice her for
the first time.
He looked—remote. His tie-
ends hung out of the back of his
collar and his white starched
coat was smudged, crumpled
and bloody. Oh, his nose was
bleeding; and his left eye. He
breathed harshly. She could not
stop gazing into his right eye,
which did not blink. With an
effort she turned back to regard
the man on the concrete.
“It’s Dr. Wray!” she said.
“Yes,” said Dr. Perry. Curi-
ously, he, of the two, now seemed
more surprised.
“Yes,” he said again. “I’d
better get him fixed up.”
“He’s hurt?” She heard her
voice.
“Not much, not badly.”
“Too much to go as far as the
cottage yet. I’ll unlock one of
the treatment cubicles in Out-
patients,” she told him.
“But . . .”
“Hurry up, you don’t want
someone to come along and find
you both like this, do you?”
The young man on the floor
groaned and half-turned over.
“Come on,” she said, “stand
up.” She felt no sympathy for
him, only an irritated compul-
sion to efficiency,
“Where ..'.?”
“Stand up!” she repeated.
They helped him to his feet. His
soft heavy body leaned groggily
against the wall. He worked his
mouth, then spat wearily. A
slimy blood-stained patch oozed
over the concrete and something
white slithered against her shoe.
This display of physical weak-
ness out of its proper setting—
a high iron bedstead —annoyed
her.
“How disgusting,” she said.
“Oh, it’s a tooth. Dear me.”
She hastened the men through a
passageway to Outpatients and
unlocked a door.
“You can . use the outside
entrance to leave, without going
through the hall, same key for
both doors,” she told Dr.
Perry; “and the windows are
o Continued on next page)


«L»NT
Investment of the publics
savings in Commonwealth
Loans is essential
to Australia's full
development and the
continuance of our
national prosperity.
Every business enterprise, large or small, every farm, every shop, every workshop
and factory, is the result of investment of someone’s savings. Without the
investment of savings there could be no development.
Without investment in public works we could not have railways or roads,
bridges or harbours, water or electricity, schools or hospitals, or any of the other
basic or community services upon which living as we know it, depends.
Where does this capital for public works come from? It comes, in the
main, from the investment by the public of its savings in Loans such as the
Commonwealth Security Loan now open.
It is essential for Australia’s continued progress that the funds available for
public works should be maintained at a high level in keeping with the expanding
national economy. The opportunity to provide this productive capital for
Australia’s development is open to all Australians with savings to invest. A
subscription to the current Commonwealth Security Loan is a contribution to
the national welfare and Australia’s continued prosperity.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
41%
per annum issued at par and
maturing on November 15,
1968, or
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at »
3%
per annum issued at
£9B/15/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15, 1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/- in each £1 of interest
increases the effective interest yield.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION is £lO for long-term and £l,OOO
for short-term Securities.
APPLICATIONS for cash subscriptions may be lodged with any
Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
CONVERSION of Maturing Securities
£11,871,000 of 2% Commonwealth Bonds and Inscribed
Stock, issued in November, 1951, will mature on Novem-
ber 15, 1954, and £63,022,680 of Australian Consolidated
3-g% Securities, issued in November, 1938, will mature
on December 15, 1954- Holders are invited to convert
their securities into new Bonds or Inscribed Stock in the
Loan now open.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
Invest in tlie
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN
NOW OPEN
5L2.117
well-shaded. No one need know
you’re here.”
6 6VTERY appropriate,” said
* Dr. Perry, looking round
the little room. “I had not
realised one could get in here
except through the hall.”
He disposed Dr. Wray, still
confused and witless, on a low
couch.
“You have genius, Sister
Ingle,” he muttered, washing his
face and hands in the clean
white basin and wiping them on
a fresh towel, neatly left ready
for tomorrow morning’s—no ;
this morning’s—clinic.
“Perhaps,” she said, “although
I’m sure I’ve no idea how we’ll
get more clean linen at this hour.
Don’t use more than you must.
Is your nose going to bleed much
longer? I’ll plug it.”
“Oh, plug my nose, stitch my
eye. Genius, genius, and no one
but you would think of it. Here’s
where love comes, Sister Ingle.
Torn and bleeding to the special
clinic.”
She suddenly became aware
of what he meant and was
embarrassed.
“It’s also used for skin cases ;
there is no need to be crude,”
she told him primly.
“I know. I know. The old
skin game.” He stood while she
dressed his eye.
Dr. Wray, disregarded, snorted
stertorously on the couch. A
different sound from him
reminded them he was there.
“Crikey. He’s going to vomit.”
He snatched a basin and held
it.
“I must get down to the
wards,” Sister Ingle said. “Please
wait here till I come back. This
isn’t going to be easy. And be
quiet and keep the door locked,”
She took a moist cotton swab
with her and, before entering the
first ward, wiped the place where
Dr. Wray had spat. Picking up
the tooth, she looked round,
guiltily, then leaned over one of
the arches and pushed the dirty
cotton-wool deep into a hydran-
gea-bush. She turned the tooth
over in her hand curiously. It
was almost free of blood. She
put it in her pocket.
'T'HE wards were quiet. The
patient who had been trans-
fused earlier was awake, but his
condition was satisfactory.
“Dr, Perry promised to have
another look at him,” said the
nurse. “I suppose he’ll come
soon.”
“He may be delayed,” Sister
Ingle said. “He’s had a nasty
fall out on the drive.”
“Oh dear. On that patch of
gravel?”
“Yes. There.”
“Dangerous place.”
It was half an hour before
Sister Ingle returned to the two
young men.
Dr. Perry was cleaning the
basin with swabs as she came
in. The clinic looked reasonably
tidy. Dr. Wray’s mouth was
swollen and his left hand
bandaged.
“Get him down to your
quarters quickly,” she ordered,
“and take care no one sees you.
You’ve had a fall on that slip-
pery part of the drive. We’ll
think of something for him.
Coincidences. Change your
coat, don’t forget, and ring me
in Seven as soon as you’re
ready.”
When she saw him a little
later he looked better; blit still
seemed to be acting automati-
cally.
“Now,” she bossed, “go along
to Five. Nurse is worried about
Mrs. Smith. The phone’ll ring
in ten minutes. Be sure you
answer it yourself. Tell Nurse
all about what’s said. I have to
think.”
EXAMINING Mrs. Smith, he
reflected that the old girl was
thoroughly enjoying herself. But
very decent of her. Nice of her
not to ask questions. Nicer not
to ask questions of oneself. Or
think. Ted Wray’s tooth
wouldn’t be explained away in
a hurry. Pity about it, because
he wasn’t a bad chap. Good
friends. Oh, yeah! Glorious
feeling: that sinister brittle little
snap.
The phone rang. Nurse
moved towards it.
“I’ll go,” he told her swiftly.
“Hello,” he said loudly.
“I’m a friend of Dr. Wray’s,”
said Sister Ingle’s voice, “Peter
Hopkins.”
“Peter who?”
“Hopkins.”
He found it difficult, in spite
of increasing headache, not to
laugh. Her conspiracy was so
naive. He used his gravest
voice:
“Oh yes, Mr. Hopkins.”
“Dr. Wray and I are in a bit
of a mess. I smashed my car
up.”
“A smash-up, where?”
“Gully Road. I’m bringing
him home now. Can you meet
us at your quarters?” She added
some circumstantial details.
“I’ll come now.”
“Well, Nurse,” he said, walk-
ing back to the patient, “this is
our unlucky night. I’ll have to
run across to the cottage. Dr.
Wray’s been in a bit of a car-
smash.” He embroidered the
story. Sister Ingle knew her
onions. This lass was the gossipy
sort. Dr. Wray’s accident and
his own mishap were due for
some plain and fancy story-
telling.
((Continued on page 30)


A Summer Playground?
SNOWS OF KOSCIUSKO
By K. A. SAXBY
NEARLY everywhere in
Australia snow is only
something you read about
in the papers. In any
Sydney winter the merest rumor
of a few stray flakes in one of
the outer suburbs is enough to
start reporters dialling the
Weather Bureau. Very seldom
indeed is the rumor confirmed.
The near-miraculous event of
June 28, 1836, when two inches
of snow mantled the city for two
hours, has remained unique.
Snow in Sydney is not merely
news: it is history.
It is the same, or nearly the
same, with the other Australian
capitals. Melbourne and Can-
berra, though so often maligned
about their winter bleakness, get
only light powderings on rare
occasions. In Adelaide the
powderings are lighter and the
occasions rarer. Snow is beyond
imagining in Brisbane and Perth.
Only Hobart can count on a
moderate fall or two nearly
every winter.
Of the mainland States, only
N.S.W* and Victoria really
know what the stuff looks like.
All Queensland sees of it is an
occasional flurry on the southern
border round Stanthorpe. West
Australia never sees it at all,
though there are legends of a
few odd watery flakes in the
Stirling Ranges. South Aus-
tralia gets a little, but very little,
in the Mount Lofties and the
Southern Flinders Range. Over
most of N.S.W. and Victoria it
is a rarity. Sizeable falls in even
such highland towns as Ballarat,
Katoomba, Orange and Armi-
dale are reported on the front
page. Not long ago an 18in. fall
at Guyra made headlines. The
fact is that over nearly the whole
of the continent snow is abso-
lutely unknown, and in most of
the places where it does fall it
is a fleeting stranger. It has no
permanent abode anywhere on
the Australian mainland. Only
in one relatively small area is it
a regular and long-staying visi-
tor, taken for granted as such.
That is the boomerang-shaped,
150-mile-long belt of granite
mountain - country, sweeping
round from Baw Baw up to the
Bimberis, rather ambitiously
called the Australian Alps.
It is more reminiscent of the
Scottish Highlands than of
Switzerland, if you could forget
the Australian snowgums. It is
without glaciers or towering,
jagged Matterhorns or Mont
Blancs. Mountain outlines are
for the most part gently
rounded, and the majority of
grades are comparatively easy.
Alpinists in Sir Edmund Hil-
lary’s class would find few chal-
lenges to their skill. It seems a
little silly to make hard work of
climbing our highest peak when
you can drive a car to the top.
There has been a motor-road up
Kosciusko since way back in
1908.
Above the timber-line at
5000 ft. it is a bare, heathery,
moorish land, hilly rather than
mountainous, abounding with
incredibly ancient glacier-scored
rocks, ice-cold mountain tarns
and hundreds of swift, snow-fed
streams. Evidence suggests that
our Alps are no more than the
worn-down stumps of a mighty
range that, millions of years ago,
may have been two or three
times higher than at present.
Certainly today’s heights are
hardly alpine. Australia’s top-
most* point, at Kosciusko, is
only just over 7300 ft. above
sea-level —the school atlases
keep plugging 7328 ft. —as com-
pared with Mont Blanc’s
15,780 ft. or the 12,349 ft. of the
New Zealand Alps. Apart from
Kosciusko, only one other Aus-
tralian peak, near-by Townsend,
reaches 7000 ft., though Gungar-
tan (6776 ft.), Jagungal (6755 ft.)
and, in Victoria, Bogong
(6508 ft.) and Feathertop
(6306 ft.) are not far off it. None
of them would rate as more than
foothills beside the Himalayas
or the Andes.
But if absolute altitudes are
not imposing, the average alti-
tude of the area is respectable.
About 6000 square miles
are over 4000 ft. In the N.S.W.
section alone there are 40 peaks
over 5000 ft., of which a dozen
are over 6000 ft. Above the tim-
ber-line at 5000 ft,, snow lies feet
deep for three to six months
every winter. Because of the
lack of steep slopes, it does not
peel off in avalanches as soon
as it softens, but lies until it is
entirely melted away. This slow,
gradual and steady melting of
Kosciusko snows is an important
factor in the great Snowy Moun-
tains plan.
In Australia’s Alps the big
snows are not normally found
much below 4000 ft., though
heavy falls occur down to below
3000 ft., and in Victoria may
occur as low as 2000 ft. At
Kosciusko snowtime usually be-
gins in late April or early May,
but falls have been known as
early as February. By the end
of May the snow is well set in,
and skiing is under way. The
season is at its height during
June, luly and August, when
drifts up to 30 and 40ft. deep
may pile up. The best of the
snow-sports are over by the end
of September, and before Octo-
ber is out they are finished alto-
gether, but the topmost snow
hangs on until Christmas or
later. In the granulated form
of neve, it may persist in a few
small sheltered hollows near the
summit until the next year’s
snowfall begins. These condi-
tions, with local variations, are
on the Victorian side, too. But
Kosciusko is the only Australian
mountain for which any sort of
a claim to a permanent snow-
cap can be made. And then
it is only by a shadowy defini-
tion.
Winter sports in Australia
are necessarily on a much
smaller scale than in Switzer-
land or North America. Swiss
ski-runs are from three to five
times longer than ours and are
steeper. Also, our snow, by rea-
son of its high water-content,
makes heavier going. It is too
soggy for good snowfighting.
But although it lacks the light,
powdery dryness of the Canadian
product, cubic foot for cubic
foot, it will fill dams faster.
In the matter of nomencla-
ture, at least, Kosciusko and its
fellows can hold their own with
any mountains overseas. Many
of the fine thunderous aboriginal
names, like lagungal, Gungar-
tan, Bogong, Bimberi, Jagumba
and Tantangara, have been re-
tained. Some of the European
ones, such as Townsend,
Hotham and Buffer, are mundane
enough, but others, for instance
Feathertop and The Perisher, are
singularly appropriate. Kosci-
usko itself is impressive in a
foreign-sounding way. Perhaps
it was just as well our highest
mountain was discovered by a
Pole, when you recall what hap-
pened to New Zealand’s alpine
monarch. The Maoris called it
Aorangi, the Cloud-piercer, the
pakeha christened it Mount
Cook. It was, perhaps, fortunate
that the Endeavour’s captain was
not Smith or Jones.
Overseas observers have re-
marked * that the amount of
winter snow deposited on our
Alps is out of all proportion to
their altitude and latitude. It is a
fact that many higher peaks in
corresponding northern latitudes
don’t get as much, or hold it so
long. The Kosciusko area owes
its bountiful snowfall to the fact
that it is just far enough south
to come under the influence of
the cold, moisture-laden “Roar-
ing Forties.” The snowiness of
the Snowy Mountains is a crucial
factor in our national develop-
ment. Because of it, and only
because of it, the plans to double
our electric-power output and
treble our irrigated-areas can be
realised. Probably in no other
country in the world do a few
extra feet of snow mean so
much.
Our snow-brought blessings
do not end with extra electricity,
irrigation and winter sports. It
can also make a great and badly
needed improvement in our
scenery. In Europe, U.S.A.,
Canada, New Zealand and Tas-
mania the combination of moun-
tain, river and lake is an irresist-
ible and highly lucrative tourist
attraction. In the comparatively
near future Australia, naturally
an almost lakeless country, will
have the chance to cash-in on
this trade. The fact that our
lakes will be artificial ones will
make no difference.
America has already shown
how to turn a big dam into a
tourist money-spinner, for in-
stance at Lake Mead, where the
Colorado River is banked-up
behind the Boulder Dam to form
a great inland sea 115 miles
long. Stocked with bass, trout
and perch, it is a fisherman’s all-
season paradise, and is regarded
and treated as such. Launches
and sailboats in dozens race over
its deep-blue waters. Every year
hundreds of thousands of people
visit Lake Mead, which, with
the land round it, was declared
a recreational area soon after it
was brought into existence. Al-
though the original and main
purpose, as in Australia, was and
is power-generation, irrigation
and water-supply, the lake is far
more widely known as a pleasure
resort. Luxury hotels are spring-
ing up round its shores. There
is no reason why our own alpine
lakes-to-be, similarly designated
recreation-reserves and open to
the public for fishing, sailing,
cruising and swimming, should
not develop along the same lines.
As at Lake Mead, small I
entrance- and dockage-fees for
holiday-makers’ boats could
help to maintain the dams.
Apart from the major storages
of the Victorian schemes, the
dams of the Snowy Mountains
project alone will create seven
big artificial lakes. One of them
at least, the Blowering, in the
glorious Tumut valley, will be
a scenic gem that will need no
touching-up at all. Pine forests
judiciously planted round the
shores of the others would bring
them up to any European or
American standard. Unfor-
tunately, none of them will be
in existence for several years
yet. But there is no need to
wait until the Snowy dams are
finished before making a start
in adding to our tourist attrac-
tions.
Already we have, and have
had for years, big man-made
lakes *in mountain settings. Two
of these, Eildon and Burrinjuck,
leave little to be desired scenic-
ally. Burrinjuck in particular is
as beautiful in its way as Winder-
mere. Why shouldn’t it be de-
clared a recreational area right
away? At present it is as much
as you dare do to look at it.
The lovely place bristles with
taboos and verbotens.
Our snow country is warm
enough in summer to have a
year-round attraction. It has its
winter skiing and at other sea-
sons could have sailing, cruising
and vastly improved fishing, in
addition to the normal tennis,
riding and golf. With the blue,
snapping, mountain air to com-
plete the attraction, it should,
with suitable organisation and
accommodation, become one
of Australia’s most popular
summer resorts.
Scientists claim that the ice
of Greenland is on the retreat,
and that the snows of many of
the world’s highest mountains
are slowly vanishing. Perhaps
the world is getting warmer. If
that is so, it is an evil omen for
Australia. We already get too
much sun, and we have no snow
to spare. Kosciusko’s winter
whitecap is one of our most
valuable assets.
The Pubs of Old Barossa
By JOHN GARDNER
r- OMETHING of the charm,
\ service and tradition of
L J more leisurely days can be
found in the old pubs in
and near the grape-filled Barossa
Valley, roughly 50 miles from
Adelaide. We made this dis-
covery recently ; a very pleasant
experience.
We found, too, the oldest
family licence in South Australia,
a redgum - tiled floor worn
smooth by generations of
drinkers’ boots, an ancient main-
street pub that has just had the
telephone put on, wooden
shingles peeping from iron-roofs
and flagstone verandas.
Most of the pubs had 2ft.-
thick walls inside and out, low
ceilings and narrow passages,
sft. 9in. doorways, and bars like
taprooms in English inns.
It was good to see the other
side of the picture in a day when
Bung is so often accused of being
grasping and indifferent to the
welfare of the casual caller. At
one tiny, lonely pub we were
given thick soup with hot lamb,
baked potatoes and other
vegetables, steaming jam-tart
with heaps of real cream, jam,
bread-and-butter and politeness.
Cost? Five-bob a head!
The publican’s wife who served
us apologised for not doing
better, because we'd come at
short notice on washing-day. She
was the entire domestic staff.
Then there was an offer of a
jar of clotted cream as we were
going. Alas, we were away from
home and couldn’t accept.
These little pubs run to a
pattern .. . one - story, low
verandas, perhaps a crop or a
vineyard coming close to the 1
walls. Through a window we saw
cows on green pasture: a drover
and his dogs ...
From a parlor decorated with
pictures of a family of licensees
going back nearly a century, we
looked on crops and distant
scrub as the fourth licensee of
his line brought us drinks. A
13-year-old son will probably
take over some day.
At Allendale North Hotel, in
the wheat-and-cow country just
over the north-eastern rim of the
rich Barossa Valley, mine host is
Murray Robertson. His great-
grandfather was the first licensee,
in 1857. In those days the pub
was a staging-post for coaches
running between Adelaide and
the Burra copper-mines and
points north.
In my day in the Lower North,
Murray’s father (he retired a few
years back) was a publican-
blacksmith. The forge on the
pub premises is closed these days.
There are no draught-horses
around, anyway.
I’m sorry I missed seeing
Murray Robertson’s 85-year-old
father and 84-year-old mother.
They’d become a bit tired of
fiddling around the pub doing
nothing lately. So they packed
their bags, boarded the Trans-
continental express and were
gallivanting around Perth on
holidays.
In a dip of the Barossa Valley
we called at the Greenock Creek
Tavern, set on leafy banks in the
centre of compact Greenock
village, alongside a chugging mill
and opposite a 100-year-old store.
Another family pub, the
Greenock Creek Tavern has been
run by a Schluter for three
generations. Gerry, the son of
Mat, runs the place now.
M%t, aji agile 80, was sweep-
ing the peppercorns from near
the shady veranda the morning
we pulled up. They were pepper-
corns from the old trees to which
we hitched our horses 25 years or
so ago., ; Mat Schluter’s father
bought the tavern in 1869, and a
Schluter has run it ever since.
We tried a local vintage in this
quaint unchanging tavern, as Mat
Schluter yarned of early days
and robust son Gerry served the
locals.
The Schluters, the tavern, and
the peppercorn - trees, have
survived flood and fire a long
time. They’ll be staying on.
In Don Hansberry’s Williams-
town pub, on the south-western
lip of the Barossa Valley, they’ll
bet that you cannot move one
end of the solid log veranda-
seat to a spot over against the
post. You can’t win this bet.
It seems that there have been bets
and arguments over this feat of
strength for the 101 years of the
inn’s life. The seat is solid red-
gum about 12ft. long and 18in.
through.
But don’t worry about losing
your bet. You’ll be able to pay
for it in one of the country’s
most entrancing little tap-rooms,
paved, most of the way, with
ancient redgum tiles that look
good for another century.
Then there was the call at
Kapunda’s 95-year-old Clare
Castle —the main-street hotel
which has only recently had the
(i Continued on page SO)


TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
HOSPITAL
fd
A fine
companion
a friend
in need
fd
Circular Charti for ail type*
of Recording instruments
tor >Kf ctw MitWMrj
or CquipoMnt
KfTfß CHARTI • Spoctokf
jac omu \\mM
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
LIFEGUARD CIGARETTES
Obtain yonr supplies of good-
quality cigarettes —Cork or Plain
—priced at 80/- per 1,000.
Lifeguard Tobacco, Ltd.,
Box 31, P. 0,, Chippendale, N.S.W.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Melbourne’s spring round of
important events will be con-
tinued this coming Saturday,
when the £4300 Williamstown
Cup, including a £3OO trophy,
will be decided over \\ mile at
the Caulfield course. It has
attracted some of the best stayers
in training.
Dating back to the late
’eighties the Williamstown Cup
can number among its winners
such stayers as Morse Code (two
wins), Saxony, Columnist,
Counsel, Claudette, Maikai,
Shadow King, Second Wind
(two) and Amounis.
Gay Helios, winner of the
V.R-C. Handicap at Flemington
on Saturday and third in the
Melbourne Cup, should be hard
to beat. He has now reached
peak form, and is selected to
win from Captain Hunter and
Cromis.
m ♦ • •
Cromis has found Rising Fast
a real snag in the recent w.-f.-a.
events. Maybe he will appre-
ciate the handicap conditions of
the Williamstown, but he has to
concede a lot of weight to Gay
Helios.
Rising Fast, easy winner of the
Melbourne Cup from Hellion
and Gay Helios, will probably
be set for the rich Sydney Cup
next autumn. With a 9.7
maximum weight in the Cup-
conditions, Rising Fast would be
called upon to carry only 21b.
more than his Melbourne Cup
impost. His inclusion would
mean that many others would
be favorably placed in the
weights, but they would still have
the job ahead to beat this
champion.
In recent weeks in Melbourne
Rising Fast has won £33,339,
bringing his total stakemoney to
£37,390, a tidy return for a
325gns. yearling.
Before Rising Fast struck his
purple patch in Melbourne his
best win had been the Queen
Elizabeth Plate at Ohinemuri
(N.Z.) last December, carrying
9st. As he has pretty con-
clusively demonstrated, he is
equally at home at weight-for-
age or in handicap racing, and
is such an easy horse to
ride that five different jockeys
have been successful on him in
his Melbourne outings—Bris-
bane rider A. Tindall, Mel-
bourne’s Bill Williamson and
Jack Purtell, and Sydney riders
A. Ward and Bill Cook. All
told the five-year-old gelding
has won 16 races, been second
six times and third twice from
38 starts.
Neville Sellwood had specially
stiff luck to cra§h in a race early
in the Cup carnival; he should
have been sharing in the
McCarten run of success—the
good tally of eight wins and a
dead-heat, easily McCarten's
best record at a Cup meeting.
Arthur Ward, however, has
proved an excellent substitute
for Sellwood. McCarten has won
three races each with Farquhar
and Knave and two with Prince
Cortauld ; Indian Empire dead-
heated for first at Moonee
Valley.
Lady Mogambo, Australia’s
best staying three-year-old filly,
has made a sudden rise from
obscurity. Prior to winning the
Oaks at Flemington she had
started in half a dozen races for
one success, Caulfield’s One
Thousand Guineas. She is now
being hailed as the likely winner
of the A.J.C.’s Adrian Knox
Stakes, still some months away.
A product of Pinaroo stud,
Werribee (Vic.), and raced on
lease by H. P. Tomlinson, a
friend of studmaster Steve
Murphy, who bred her, she is by
Woodruffe (imp.) from Princess
Geraldine by Medieval Knight
(imp.).
Nebrina, surprise winner of
the V.R.C. Ottawa Stakes for
maiden two-year-old fillies, had
started only twice before, A
chestnut, she is from a grey
mare, Tetrinia. The dam is by
Tetratema (imp.) from Young
Lavinia by Gainsborough. By
Nebris (imp.), a son of Big
Game, Nebrina is from the
same family as Nimbus, winner
of the English Derby and Two
Thousand Guineas.
King Boonala, winner at first
race-start of the Canterbury
Park Maiden Two-year-old
(colts and geldings), is a
Baramul Stud, Kerrabee
(N.S.W.), product—yet another
of the progeny of new imported
sire Star Kingdom. King
Boonala is from the Mildura
mare Sundridge Lass, who
traces back to unbeaten Grand
Flaneur, whose successes in-
cluded the 1880 Melbourne Cup.
With his trainer, M. Mc-
Carten, in Melbourne and his
owner, W. Dawes, also not
among those present, Belmont
Park won the Canterbury Park
Handicap; for which he was
backed from 10’s to 6’s. Bel-
“ 'Swinger' has kindly offered to sing a song while
we're waiting for a ladder."
mont Park won a middle-dist-
ance double on the one after-
noon at Rosehill in July and
had had three outings following
a spell. The presence of W.
Bell in the saddle may have put
some punters off; Bell is a cap-
able horseman, with many wins
to his credit, but it was some-
thing new for him to be riding
a McCarten-trained galloper. He
showed his ability in landing
the gelding an easy winner.
Favorite Star Sapphire was
again slow from the starting-
gates ; when the New Zealand
mare does get away well she
should win a middle-distance
event.
* • • •
In winning the A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes at Randwick in
October, 1940, by half a dozen
lengths, All Love set an Aus-
tralian record (58isec.) for
five furlongs, and it still stands.
Mambo Jambo, a close relative
of that speedster, beat a field of
15 maiden two-year-old fillies
at Canterbury in promising
style. Raced by M. A. Hogan,
who also has Idlewild, and
trained by H. B. Leahey at
Rosebery, Mambo Jambo is by
Jambo (imp.) from Love Is All
by Double Remove. She might
soon add to her winnings.
• • • •
The Queen’s horse, Landau,
taken by air to the U.S. for the
£29,000 Washington Interna-
tional at Maryland, finished at
the tail of the field of seven.
Fisherman, one of two U.S.
representatives, won the mile-
and-a-half contest from France’s
nomination, Banassa, with Brush
Burn (U.S.), a son of Bern-
borough, third.
* * •
The four Australian golf pros.,
Pickworth, Von Nida, Nagle and
Mclnnes, won the professional
International Cup at The Lakes
(Sydney), one-up on the U.S.
team, Douglas, Furgol, Harrison
and Bolt. In the Perth (W.A.)
section of the match the teams
finished square. At The Lakes,
Nagle-Furgol and Von Nida-
Harrison were square, Douglas
beat Mclnnes 3 and 2, and Pick-
worth clinched the trophy with a
half on the 18th to beat Bolt,
one-up.
It’s only the fourth time the
pros.’ International Cup has
been played for since its incep-
tion 20 years ago. U.S.A. held it
until now. It joins Peter
Thomson’s British Open and
match-play titles, D. Bachli’s
British Amateur and P.
Toogood’s amateur win in the
British Open to make an Aus-
tralian year in big golf.
While the International Cup
was being played in Sydney,
Peter Thomson, himself little
more than a youth, was going
down to two mere children in the
N.Z. Open. It was won by
18-year-old R. Charles, of
Masterton, with B. Crampton
(Aust.) second, Thomson third.
♦ ♦ ♦
Set 174 to win outright, South
Australia looked a sure thing to
beat the M.C.C.; but it didn’t
come off: M.C.C., 246 and 181;
S.A., 254 and 152; M.C.C. by
21 runs. English “mystery”
bowler Appleyard, having his
first success of the tour (5-46),
was largely responsible for
S.A.’s not getting the runs in
their second innings.
The batting by both teams
was “brittle,” and the M.C.C.
had withal a deplorably long
“tail.” Compton (113) and
Hutton (98) topped the two
M. innings. Noteworthy for
S.A., a first-innings opening-
partnership of 119 by Favell and
Harris. Favell, who made a
brilliant first-innings 84 and an
impressive second-innings 47, a
forceful batsman who holds that
a new ball can be hit every bit as
hard as an old, has strong claims
to be Morris’s partner in the
Tests (other possibles, Mc-
Donald, Briggs, Burke and Ken
Archer).
S.A, has five “foreigners”—
Hole, Favell, Pinch and Roxby
(from N.S.W.) and left-hand
spinner Wilson, who once played
with Richmond (Vic.). Wilson
had a good match, bagging nine
wickets all told; last season,
incidentally, he bowled more
overs in Sheffield Shield games
than any other bowler.
• • • •
In this year’s Sheffield Shield
pipe-opener, in Brisbane, N.S.W.
beat Queensland, in a high-
scoring game, by 64 runs on the
first innings. (Q., 405 and 4-261;
N. 469.) \Remarkably, in
the equivalent match last year,
also a high-scoring business,
N.S.W, won by 68 runs on the
first. Both times N.S.W. had to
fight hard to get the lead.
Two men of each team
(Benaud and Burke, N.S.W.;
Burge and Mackay, Q.) made
centuries this year ; two men of
each team (Benaud and Morris,
N.S.W.; Burge and Ken Archer,
Q.) made centuries last year.
Benaud (like Burge, in both lists)
looks a certain selection in the
coming Tests ; Burge, 21, play-
ing only his second Shield game
when he made his century against
N.S.W. last year, looks at this
stage a sure future Test-player.
Both N.S.W. and Queensland
have strong batting line-ups: the
northern ’keeper, Wally Grout,
who batted No. 10, has opened
for the State, while N.S.W.’s Ted
Cotton, who went in third-last,
scored more runs than anyone
else in Sydney’s grade-cricket last
year. Cotton, a useful all-
rounder, batted gamely for well
over an hour with a broken
finger which will now keep him
out of the game for a couple of
months.
• • • •'
On a batsman’s wicket, best
trundling efforts were those of
Lindwall, still a great bowler
(4-90 for Queensland), and of
new N.S.W. spinner Jack
Treanor, a last-minute inclusion
when Davidson couldn’t play.
Treanor took five first-innings
and three second-innings wickets
(this latter trio a hat-trick). He’s
been a handy bowler for a long
while in Sydney’s grade-cricket,
and must have just missed State
selection in other years.
• , • • •
“Ann”: Family cricket-teams
don’t all belong to a more pro-
lific age. The Langfields, of
Morongla, a settlement on the
Blayney-Harden line (N.S.W.),
muster a full team, with a 12th
man and an umpire of the same
tribe thrown in. To show that
their side is something more
than a name the Langfields
recently defeated the rest of
the district, rattling up 146 to
their opponents 118.
♦ ♦ *
Queensland tennis champion-
ships in Brisbane were disgraced
by the nowadays all-too-common
displays on the courts of that
sissy petulance • miscalled
“temperament.” In the singles
final, played in blistering hot
weather, Hoad defeated Hartwig,
as he had done in the final last
year.
* * *
Melbourne “Sun’s” Tour of
Victoria, longest and richest
cycling-race in Australia, was
won by Footscray rider Hec
Sutherland, who rode on the last
three days in pain from a swollen
knee, Sutherland, 1950 Empire
Games road-cycling champion,
had already recently won
Adelaide “Advertiser’s” Tour of
S.A. and also the Victorian 125-
mile professional road-race.
• ♦ •
A pair of big welterweights,
French-Senegalese Eddie Dione
(10.9) and American negro Mar-
shall Clayton (10.10), turned on
some good fight in their 12-
rounder at Leichhardt. Shorter
in height and reach, Clayton kept
attacking, but Dione was much
too fast for him, and the three
judges—Charles Moses, Frank
Hyde and Les Pearson—were
unanimous in declaring Dione
winner on points. Dione’s
snappy punches mainly piled-up
the points. He has now been
matched to fight Freddie Daw-
son at Sydney Sports Ground,
and the late Battling Siki’s
fellow-countryman is tipped to
give Freddie a ton of trouble.


TODAY is your future
Do you like others find
life cluttered with nagging
chores, "friends” who mean
little to you, futile stewing
over past mistakes? Sophie
Kerr meant to change all that
"some day” until a sage re-
mark made her sharply realise
the future is now, this minute.
In November Header’s Digest,
she tells the profound words
that have helped reshape her
entire way of living.
Get November Reader’s
Digest today: it’s packed with
articles of lasting interest, con-
densed from leading magazines
and current books, including:
“How to improve your mem-
ory,” “Gas turbine —car of the
future?” and “How to land the
job you want.” November
Reader’s Digest on sale now —
1/6, all newsagents, bookstalls.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CHARLES EDWARD HANSON late of
Kings Road Pimlico Townsville in the
State of Queensland.; —TAKE NOTICE that
BERYL JOYCE HANSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1936 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st February 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. BRUCE FERGUSON, Solicitor, of
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Looked Like a Curate. Wrote About Lobsters!
"Kodak”
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
IN AN earlier article I told
how, more than 36 years
ago, I became an office-boy
to Bertram Stevens, editor
of the old “Lone Hand,” and
how I came to leave him to seek
work in another field.
But a few weeks after quitting
the old Bulletin office at 214
George-street I was back there
in response to an advertisement
in the “S. M. Herald”:
Intelligent Boy, office duties.
Apply 10 today. Editorial Bept.j
“Bulletin,” 314 George-st.
I was engaged by Harold
Burston, a pleasant-mannered,
bustling, sun-tanned young man,
who was then secretary to the
editor, S. H. Prior. I was fitted
up with a small room of my
own —it was small, ridiculously
so, but somehow it managed to
accommodate an enormous desk,
a broken-down swivel-chair, an
old cane lounge, and a gas-ring
on an empty butter-box. I was
shown a heap of rejected manu-
scripts and was told how to
leturn them to their authors, and
was further briefed as to my
other duties. These included
watering the flowers growing in
boxes on the window-sills and
dusting the amazing collection
of native weapons which Living-
ston Hopkins (“Hop”) for
some reason or other kept in
his office.
I was at the beck and call of
everybody, but all treated me
with special kindness—and no
one more so than Ernest O’Fer-
rall, or “Kodak” as everyone
called him.
“Kodak” was then a man of
36, but he looked much younger
—like a newly-ordained, fresh-
faced curate, in fact. Not long
after he had joined The
Bulletin in 1907 someone
wrote in a staff-souvenir: “The
infant of the staff is Mr, Ernest
O’Ferrall (‘Kodak’) and a dear
infant he is, with an engaging
smile and a pleasing habit of
writing his own lullabies.”
Born in Melbourne, “Kodak”
belonged to a talented Irish-
Australian family. His maternal
grandfather was a pioneer Mel-
bourne pressman and the family
bad an absorbing interest in both
literature and the stage. Edu-
cated at a Christian Brothers’
school, he worked in a bicycle-
shop before becoming a clerk
with a commercial firm.
He retained many of the
habits of a clerk when he became
a journalist. His small, neat
handwriting was that of a clerk,
not the untidy scrawl of the
average newspaperman. He
underlined titles and cross-head-
ings in red ink and numbered
the pages of his manuscript like
the folios of a ledger.
His desk was a model of tidi-
ness. He kept it always beauti-
fully varnished and polished
with a bottle of varnish and a
tin of furniture-polish which he
had in a drawer of his desk.
I remember “Kodak” as-1 saw
him every working-day for
several years coming to or leav-
ing the office: a small, slight
figure, dressed like a sedate
bank-clerk, with his umbrella
and overcoat (“Kodak” was
never caught by a sudden
shower), a neatly-folded news-
paper tucked under his arm,
and usually carrying a parcel of
books or manuscripts.
He would arrive at the office
at the tick of nine, and would
be working at his desk a few
minutes later. Seated there with
his coat on, starched shirt-cuffs
showing, and a stiff, ecclesiasti-
cal-looking collar around his
neck, he looked, with his mild
and gentle demeanor, for all the
world like some young curate
preparing an issue of the parish
magazine.
“Kodak’s” room-mate, John
Barr, was an entirely different
sort of person. John had the
battered appearance of a re-
tired prize-fighter. His clothes
looked as if they had been slept
in, and his hats, like Henry Law-
son’s, seemed always to have
seen better days. “Kodak”
smoked an occasional—very
occasional —mild cigarette. John
Barr puffed all day a strong-
smelling pipe and was generally
enveloped in a cloud of smoke.
His desk was always littered
with the flotsam and jetsam of
a newspaper-office, and his
“copy” was the despair of fore-
man compositor Bill East,
who assessed the quality of a
writer by the tidiness of his
manuscripts. “Kodak” drank
several cups of tea during the
day, but John would pour out of
the window the cup of tea I
would bring him and would go
out and buy himself a double-
rum. John was always at home
to the legion of callers who
visited the office. “Kodak” did
his best to avoid most of therm
Harold Mercer told how he
once dropped into “Kodak’s ’
room to tell him a wild char-
acter from the bush was in the
building and wanted his com-
pany, Inspired by “Kodak’s”
fine yams of drunken sprees, the
man from outback had journeyed
all the way from the back-of-
beyond with tht fixed idea of
sharing a bender with “Kodak,”
who limited his drinking to a
lager-shandy now and then.
“Kodak,” so the story goes,
turned pale and implored Harold
to dispose of the stranger,
which was easily done by
escorting him down to Bill
Snudden’s Star Hotel—rendez-
vous of Bulletin writers and
artists —with a promise that
“Kodak’-’.*. would join them
shortly. Later Harold learnt
that the moment the coast was
clear the scared writer of drunk-
yarns had bolted down the
back stairs and galloped for
home.
Yes, “Kodak” was the direct
opposite of the hard-swigging
man-about-town he wrote about.
Grave, gentle, abstemious, spar-
ing of speech, a hater of rowdi-
ness fairly sums him up. His
colleagues got added fun from
his works by reading him into
them —the frail and melancholy
“Kodak” amidst the boisterous
events he described.
“Kodak’s” first story was
published in The Bulletin
when he was 20, and he was a
regular contributor of verse and
stories until James Edmond in-
vited him to join the staff in
1907, when the establishment
of ‘The Lone Hand” created a
couple of vacancies on The
Bulletin editorial staff.
Living as a young man in a
Melbourne boarding-house, he
had devoted his evenings and
weekends to writing stories and
verse—for The Bulletin, for
C. J. Dennis’s “The Gadfly” in
Adelaide, for “Steele Rudd’s
Magazine,” for Ted Brady’s
“The Native Companion” and
for a Melbourne paper which
no one seems to have heard of
these days, “The Arena.”
A city-dweller from choice,
“Kodak” in his stories reflected
the whimsical phases of city life.
He rarely wandered into the
bush, but found his subjects in
restaurants, boarding - houses,
hotels, newspaper-offices, streets
and parks. Boarding-houses in
particular had a compelling
fascination for him. Arthur
Adams said of him:
He belonged to his boarders, he
was one of us—a member of the uni-
versal family of suburbanites. He
did not himself take home a lobster,
but he sympathised with that gen-
erous though alcoholic action, and
he had almost a tender compassion -
for the cray. He was, until his
happy marriage, a full-blooded
Bodger. And it was this soul-sym-
pathy witli all the Bodgers of the
suburban world that made him the
subtle interpreter of that inarticulate
class.
Bodger, of course, is the
Bodger of Bodger And The
Boarders, a collection of
“Kodak’s” early Bulletin
stories, which A. C. Rowland-
son, of the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., paid him £4O for the rights
to publish in book-form in
1921. Percy Lindsay did the
illustrations.
The opening piece in Bodger
And The Boarders is that de-
lightful Australian classic “The
Low's "Kodak”
Lobster and the Lioness,”
which has been amusing readers
for almost half-a-century. This
inimitable drunk-story was
reprinted in Mackaness’s Aus-
tralian Short Stories (1928),
Murdoch and Drake-Brockman’s
Australian Short Stories (1951),
and Stories by Kodak, a collec-
tion of about 30 of his Bulletin
and “Lone Hand” stories, pub-
lished by the Endeavour Press in
1933, with the original David
Low illustrations.
Apart from “The Lobster and
the Lioness,” Stories by Kodak
contains such typical “Kodak”
pieces as “The Bishop and the
Buns” —which is set for some
strange reason in New York,
but could have very well hap-
pened in a refreshment-kiosk in
an Australian park—and that
other glorious yam “The Auto-
matic Barmaid.” There are
some other fine yams in the
book, notably “Gold in His
Teeth” and “The Opium
Eaters,” which I remember
reading with much amusement
when I was a boy.
“Kodak” has been strangely
neglected by the critics, but
Morris Miller has this to say
about him:
He discovers bizarre situations, in
which he places beings, both animal
and human, that delight us by their
effective distortions. They are easily
recognisable in their Australian set-
tings, but might be transported to
city environments in other parts ot
the world [as witness “The Bishop
and the Buns”]. O’Eerrall uses no
guile, has no surprises, and indulges
rarely in sensationalism. Everything
that happens is just what one is leu
to expect. The humor is in the situ-
ation. . ,
O’Ferrall’s approach has the air 01
casualness. His characters win one s
interest if not one’s sympathy. Ihe
result is due to his artistry. He
knows how to disengage what is
human from natural surroundings.
As a depictor of episodes and moods
O’Ferrall has to be reckoned with in
auy critical study of the Australian
short-story,
“The worst sailor in Wah-
roonga,” as he called himself,
“Kodak” wrote understandingly
of ships and sailors, and was
fond of the company of sailor-
men. Which reminds me that
he was once hailed with voci-
ferous profanity when he
attempted to board a warship
in the Harbor because of the
sailor superstition said by
some to be groundless —that a
parson always brings bad luck.
His personal friends, though
few by comparison with his
many admirers, were spread
over the seven seas. “Kodak”
had a passion for the sea, though
he seldom sailed on it, and cap-
tains and lesser-lights of the
sailing world always made for
“Kodak’s” room when they
came to Sydney. I remember in
particular several old salts who
sometimes wrote for The
Bulletin —H. H. Cripps Clark,
Bob Moodie Heddle, Geoffrey
Rawson and Walter Snadden. It
was a sight to see them yarning
there of this port and that ship,
and the hurricanes and holidays
between, while “Kodak” led
them on, unearthing stories they
had never told before.
A few years before he died in
1925, “Kodak” joined “Smith’s
Weekly,” but he was never quite
happy in his new job.
He got caught-up in
the endless drudgery
of sub-editing, and
nothing he ever wrote
for “Smith’s” bears his
authentic stamp. He
was ill for many
months before the end
came, and before he died he said
to a friend on “Smith’s”:
“If I die, old chap, don’t for
Heaven’s sake start off by say-
ing : ‘So “Kodak” is dead.’ That
always creates the idea that the
fellow who has just passed out
has been in the past-tense for so
long that the news of his end
is simply a matter for surprise
that he should have really been
alive enough to die.
“And if you love me don’t
begin the par: ‘Polished his last
couplet,’ or ‘Mended his last
verse, Ernest O’Ferrall, better
known as “Kodak,” who may be
remembered’ No, just ad-
vertise for a verse-carpenter, a
Jobbing Verse Carpenter, then
the boys will know I’m dead.”
And that was exactly what
“Smith’s Weekly” did in the
issue after his death, printing
an advertisement whifh read:
Wanted, Jobbing Verse Carpenter,
Apply this office.
“Kodak” must have mended
hundreds of light, topical
verses by other writers, besides
writing a great many light verses
himself. Some of • them were
very good, particularly those
illustrated by Norman Lindsay
in Bulletin Christmas numbers.
Tremendously moral “offen-
sively” so, to use his own descrip-
tion of his mode of living—he
was the gayest of philanderers
in his verse. There was one I
remember about a fellow who
went out with a red-headed
girl who refused to behave like
a red-headed girl, so her escort
knew that her hair was dyed.
Probably, the most popular
verses “Kodak” wrote were the
Chunda Loo of Akim Foo
series, illustrated by Lionel
Lindsay, which ran in The
Bulletin for many years—full-
page advertisements for a brand
of boot-polish (“Cobra”).
Readers of the period looked
forward to them with an
astounding eagerness.
I don’t know whether any old-
time reader has a complete set
of those Chunda Loo verses,
though, knowing collectors, I’d
not be surprised to learn that
someone owns a set. I’d like
one'myself.
When “Kodak” died Arthur
Adams wrote a fine “Red Page”
article which began:
“Kodak” has gone; and Paradise
will be brightened by his gift of
humor, I can see him introducing
the great crayfish joke to Peter; and
Peter will chuckle so much over it
that he will hold the gate wide open
for a long queue of sinners.
I have always had a strong
regard for “Kodak,” both as a
writer and as a man. More than
anyone else on the staff he took
a paternal interest in me when
I was a small, callow boy, and
he helped and encouraged me
in many ways. He subbed my
first paragraph for the paper.
“Subbed,” did I say? He re-
wrote it, and if I remember
rightly I could only call the pen-
name my own. But I was a
proud youngster when he said
in his gentle voice: “There
you are, Willy, that’s how
a Bulletin par. should be
written.”


BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
*s*2
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TO
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRALIA
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is now available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can be manufac •
fared, and supplied, to Lloyd’s Class 1 requirements, and
to meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the ASM.E., A.PJ.-AJSM.E., and S.AAt.
Codes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPE UNITED?
Typical overseas press com-
ment on the results of the
London conference, the purpose
of which was to seek some sub-
stitute to unite Western Europe
after the European Defence
Community had been rejected by
the French National Assembly:
London “Economist ” : “Every-
one who attended the London
conference went home in the
consciousness of its success. But
how great a success? Compared
with the bleak prospect of a
month ago, when it seemed
impossible to find any cement for
Western Europe to take the place
of the defunct E.D.C., the results
of the meeting are almost
incredibly good. To have pro-
duced so much agreement so
quickly was certainly a triumph
of genuine negotiation, even, as
President Eisenhower called it,
“one of the greatest diplomatic
achievements of our time.
“If the agreement is finally
ratified, it will have provided a
framework within which France
and Germany can work together
in the Western alliance. What is
more, it will have done so in a
way that should go far to dispel
the dangerous mood of distrust
with Europe that has been rising
in America; Washington will,
after all, be able to maintain a
head of steam in its European
policy. These should be sufficient
achievements, within a single
week, to satisfy any statesman.”
The same : “The French stand
to gain a great deal by the new
agreements. They have won their
special point that German re-
armament should be subject to
specific limitation and control.
Western Germany gives up any
claim to manufacture what have
become known as the ABC
weapons—atomic, bacteriological
and chemical; it accepts restric-
tions on its output of heavy
armaments of normal type ; and
it agrees to the same upper limit
to the size of its forces as was
proposed under E.D.C. —12
divisions. The French have also
been given a willing German
promise not to use force in trying
to achieve unity or to change
Germany’s frontiers. For all
this the only price that the
French are asked to pay is agree-
ment to Germany’s entry into
Nato —and this was given away
under Mr. Eden’s persuasion in
Paris before the London confer-
ence began.”
The same: “For the Germans,
the London conference marked
their formal return to the poli-
tical community of Western
Europe; they are entering not
only Nato but also the Brussels
Treaty; the Germans are being
given back nine-tenths of the
sovereignty they lost in the war,
and their right to rearm is
categorically recognised.”
The same: “For the British, on
the other hand, the balance-sheet
is by no means as easy to calcu-
late, and no one should leap to
conclusions about it. Though
Mr. Eden’s pledge saved the
conference, the commitment to
the continent of four British
divisions and the Tactical Air
Force will remain a hostage to
fortune long after the mere treaty
papers are deep in dust on the
shelves. By their historic under-
taking, the British have won an
eleventh - hour reprieve in
Germany. Britain’s frontier has
been shifted from the Rhine to
the Elbe. But the price has yet to
be seen and perhaps one day
paid. For Mr. Eden has per-
suaded Sir Winston Churchill to
do what it should nowadays be a
normal axiom of British foreign
policy never to do. He has
undertaken a major new commit-
ment which the United States
does not share or underwrite.
“To point these things out is
to reveal the magnitude of the
offering that Mr. Eden has made
to Europe, not to oppose it. On
the contrary, it is a calculated
risk that is well worth taking.
Is it not better for 120,000
young Britons to live on
the Continent for a time than
for half a million to die there?
A promise of British and
American aid, mobilised and
ready, would almost certainly
have prevented the first two
world wars, and similar promises
are the best means of preventing
the third. The only valid
criticism that can be made of
the British pledge is not that it
was made, but that it was made
by Britain alone. And that is a
defect that can still be
remedied.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “For
the next 44 years 120,000 British
youths are committed to garrison
Europe. They are to do so
although no comparable obliga-
tion falls on young men from
the Commonwealth or the United
States. Britain has pledged her
young manhood —youngsters in
uniform —boys now at school
and children who are not yet
born —so that the life of a
French Government may be pro-
longed by a few weeks or
months.
“At best, the life of a French
Government is short. Hundreds
of those Governments will have
come to office and passed into
oblivion before the Eden Pledge
has been fulfilled.
“To borrow short and lend
long is the surest way to ruin a
business. That is what the British
Government is doing now.”
V * *
‘ ‘Paris-Presse-l’lntransigeant”:
“The fact remains that the nine-
Power agreement was negotiated
in London to bring into account
the particular wishes of the
French Assembly and so as not
to compromise the building of a
political Europe. The fact
remains that it is too late to
wash one’s hands again of every-
thing that happens. There is no
immediate substitute solution for
this substitute solution. If
Europe must be reinvented, it
should be done calmly.”
• * *
Walter Lippmann in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “The true
believers in E.D.C. should make
sure that they realise the con-
sequences. They must not
imagine that because London
was a success after the failure of
E.D.C., there could be another
success after the failure of
London.”
* * •
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
Prime Ministers of Norway and
Denmark have been meeting to
discuss, among other things,
whether their countries should
join the extended Brussels
Treaty. The first decision, of
course, must be theirs. A point
has come at which they might be
glad to strengthen their ties to
other nations in Western
Europe. Their presence would
have other advantages. It would
help, like the presence of Britain
in Europe, to persuade the
French and others that they will
not be swamped by German
strength.
“It would help also, because
both Norway and Denmark have
predominantly Socialist Govern-
ments, to reassure the Socialists
St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch "
“LOOKS GOOD AS OF NOW.”
of Western Germany and France
that their interests will not be
overlooked. And it would add
spme sturdy, independent, and
practical voices to the councils
where European policy is
formed. This would not be the
first time that Norsemen and
Danes have mingled with their
southern neighbors to mutual
gain.”
American-Soviet
Trade?
Until recently, 1450 “strategic”
items in the U.S. have been
banned from sale to Russia;
hereafter only 787 items will be
banned, and, as the “U.S. News
and World Report” puts it, “an
agent of Russia, shopping for
war materials, can go to the
United States or one of the U.S.
allies today and buy nearly any-
thing he wants except actual
munitions”:
“Behind the new lowering of
the bans against shipping goods
to Russia is a record of mount-
ing pressure by America’s allies.
For them, the effect of a U.S.
embargo-list of 1450 items was a
great deal of paper-work, among
other things. Each shipment of
U.S. goods on that list to buyers
in Western Europe, for example,
required special export-licences
and a lot of administrative over-
head. Now the released items
can be shipped to U.S. friends
abroad without going through
the complex licensing procedure.
They can also, as a practical
matter, be resold to Communist
countries in most cases.
“The argument of America’s
allies went something like this:
Every shipment of American
goods to the Soviet Union or its
satellites in Eastern Europe still
must have a special export-
licence, still may be prevented
by administrative acton, even for
items removed from the
embargo-list. And many of the
newly released items are available
to Russia elsewhere—say, from
firms in Western Germany—
without paying high shipping-
costs from the U.S.
“Many hundreds of items then
were removed from the embargo-
list on the theory that Russians
either produce those goods them-
selves or have another, cheaper
source of supply.
“A Russian agent can now
order hundreds of items from
U.S. industry that a short while
ago were listed as strategic war-
goods. And there has been a
‘‘substantial flow of trade
inquiries’ from the Soviet bloc
in recent weeks.
“The agent will have to get an
export-licence, but policy now is
to approve export-licences for
many borderline cases.”
Capital and Progress
“We must draw back a bit,
put more investment into our
home agriculture and industry
and in the Commonwealth, and
so fortify our island and Com-
monwealth that we shall not
slip back into the morass from
which we have just extricated
ourselves. This investment in
success does not mean that there
will be no benefits. I see no
reason why, in the next quarter
of a century, if we run our
policy properly and soundly, we
should not double our standard
of living in this country.”
The words are those of the
British Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, R. A. Butler, and, if
they brought him criticism, par-
ticularly from the Socialists,
they also earned him a good
deal of thoughtful support of
the kind expressed by London
“Economist,” which perceives in
Mr. Butler’s words the possi-
bility that “the country (Britain)
is preparing to edge its way back
into the main stream of
economic progress”:
“If the word had not come
to have a debased meaning,” the
“Economist” adds, “one could
say that Mr. Butler was calling
for a return to the theory and
the practice of capitalism. The
word, if there were any semantic
justice, ought not to be used to
describe only the private owner-
ship of capital; it ought to
describe any community which
believes in steadily increasing its
wealth-creating capacity by a
constant investment of resources
in productive capital.
“So defined, there is nothing
controversial about capitalism,
at least between the Left and
the Right, since the leading ex-
amples in today’s world of pro-
gress-by-capital are the United
States and the Soviet Union.
The only people who should
reject capitalism, as so defined,
are those who do not believe in
material progress, either be-
cause, like Gandhi, they deliber-
ately reject it, or because they
are unwilling to pay the price
in the abatement of present con-
sumption. There are very few
of the former in Britain ; but
very many of the latter.
“When Mr. Butler spoke of
doubling the standard of living
in a quarter-century he was not
imagining things. That is
roughly what has actually hap-
pened in the United States in
the past 25 years, in spite of the


1 SENT OUR ATOMIC SECRETS
TO MOSCOW
In 1943-1944 Major G. R. Jordan,
acting as chief expediter of the lend-
lease agreement with Russia, found
that vital materials and top-secret
equipment (costing astronomical
sums of money) were being des-
patched to the Communists. This
was being done in spite of security
regulations, and at a time when
many of the items were desperately
scarce in America itself.
Major Jordan also reveals the
shocking treachery of many so-
called “war leaders,” and their will-
ing service to the Communists, in
this factual, authenticated article,
and the attitude taken to him by
the influential “leftists” of the
nation’s Press.
The current issue of the INTEL-
LIGENCE SURVEY also provides
other factual reports and comments
essential for all Christian patriots.
Single issues of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/- post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/- post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
( Non-party, non-sectarian)
843 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
f
£175
SIMPLEX 1,000-WATT
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at 1,100
r.p.m. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr.
capacity, quoted on request.
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSENDEN ROAD, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
50 ([Matt Oe Sedimt
streamlined good-looks and engineering skill
m
m
m
■va'
vMil
KiUi
As English as England.
For over 50 years Vauxhall engineering has led the British car
industry. Each new model has brought new developments, new
luxury to the medium-priced car owner. The current Vauxhall
models carry on this great tradition. See for yourself the stream-
lined grace of these three members of the proud Vauxhall family!
And their outstanding beauty is only the beginning. Drive one
and you’ll find what real pleasure a Vauxhall can give you. That’s
why we ask you to come in soon. The very moment you relax
behind the wheel, the search for your “ideal” car is over.
Illustrated above is the family saloon with spreading comfort for
5-6 people. Like other models shown here, it is available as a
15.63 h.p., 4 cyl. d.h.v.“Wyvern” or a 23.44 h.p., 6 cyl. o.h.v.“Velox”.
Designed for those who delight
in the open road, the Vauxhall
Vagabond has spreading com-
fort for 5-6 people plus a large
luggage boot. A convertible
with sports car performance.
With the new Vauxhall Coupe-
Utility you get the comfort of a
3-passenger Coupe with in-
dependent front suspension
plus 10 cwt. carrying capacity.
List prices: Saloons from £920;
Vagabonds from £900; Utilities from
£890; ALL prices plus Sales Tax.
“VAGABOND” SPORTS TOURER
J
10 CWT. COUPE UTILITY
\knxhall
Ask about the G.M.A.C. Con-
fidential Hire Purchase Plan.
Ask too about the built-for-Vaux-
hall “Airchief ” Car Radio.
GENE
BRISBANE
Vl3-33
A General Motors Product
RAL HOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
• SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
great depression and the war.
Output per worker almost
exactly doubled, in real terms,
between 1929 and 1953.
“Most of the benefit of this
has gone to the mass of the
people. Wages and salaries
have increased more than four
times as rapidly as interest and
dividends. The number of
families with less than $3OOO a
year (at constant 1953 prices)
has diminished; the number
with more than that amount
(about £lO7O a year) has risen.
Is this not progressive? Is this
not raising the standard of liv-
ing, and doing it fairly?
“There has been a great
reduction in the inequality of
wealth in America in these
years, but very little of it has
been done by ‘redistribution’ in
the sense of taking anything
away from anybody—only the
very rich have smaller real
incomes today than they had in
1929. It has been done by
creating a great increase in the
national wealth and then using
it to level-up the living-standards
of the poor.
“Is this not a very much
better way of ensuring both eco-
nomic progress and social justice
than accepting a static, or slug-
gish, national income and ‘re-
distributing’ it? And could the
total national wealth have in-
creased at anything like this
speed if there had been a policy
of deliberately penalising and
threatening those sections of the
population who do most of the
saving and investing?
“To argue in this way is not
simply to try to persuade
Socialists to turn Conservative.
That would be both foolish
and unnecessary. There is
plenty of room for disagree-
ment about the division of the
increase in wealth between dif-
ferent classes of people and
different sorts of income, or
about the role that should be
played by public enterprise and
State-control.
“But the essential point is
that no community can hope to
malce rapid economic progress
unless, year by year, in the allo-
cation of its resources, it gives
a top priority to investment.
Moreover, if there is to be
increase the investment must be
in productive forms of capital.
The building of dwellings, for
example, though desirable and
at times necessary, uses up the
community’s savings without
making much direct contribu-
tion to its ability to produce
more wealth in the future. Pro-
ducers’ capital, 'not consumers’
capital, is the key to progress.”
"Tight Little Island"
Taking a somewhat different
approach from that of Mr.
Butler in the foregoing com-
ment, R. A. Piddington, in a
letter to London “Daily Tele-
graph,” notes that “we (the
British) live, 50 million of us,
with increasing difficulty on a
small island deficient in raw
materials and without even an
attractive climate, while over-
seas we still have spacious sun-
lit territories anxious, as Sir
Thomas White recently re-
minded us, to build up their
populations and to develop
resources that are going peri-
lously begging,
“Here is a situation at which
our posterity—if it survives the
consequences of our thick-
headedness—will rail more bit-
terly than over Dunkirk or
Passchendaele.
“Half-neglected though it is,
Commonwealth buttresses
our present standard of living
against collapse, and one may
assume that only an economic
illiterate fails to appreciate thus
f ar the necessity for its preser-
V ation. What apparently is not
s 0 obvious to most people is
the continuing need of our
overpopulated country for emi-
gration outlets. There is a
widespread notion that Italy,
Jamaica, India and China are
bursting with population—but
not Britain,
“j n crude fi gures , the deli-
des p er square kilometre of
those four countries are 156,
128, 112 and 62, against Britain’s
2 io. But this is not all. A
population like ours, with its
air-traffic, motor-cars, holiday
habits and high consumption of
p Ure water, requires many times
f be area that will suffice for a
p easan t standard of living,
« Half the problems with
Britain is at grips today
__ smo ke-pollution, road acci-
dents> compulsory purchase,
a tomic-waste disposal and so on
_ arise from the si le fact
that our island is
Qf this elementary concep t there
a yery inadequate realisation,
“ S till i ess are we alive to the
f ur ther complications that the
next decade w ifl bring. There is
little agree ment as to our maxi-
mum population. For this we
must blame the econ omists,
wbo baye f a ji ed i oo k be yond
food and ( recently) raw
materia i s in their equations of
buman numbers to square mile-
age xhe horizo ns of demo-
grapby bave been bu t narrowly
advanced since the days of
Malthus.
“Yet Britain, a complete
showcase of population prob-
lems? should from her own
necessity be leading the world
| n wor jring out the adjustment
G f density to living-space. We
haye no po p U i at i on policy,
althoug h backward India is
framin g one. Meanwhile our
Commonwealth at large, which
a i o ne can give us room to
manoeuvre in accordance with
such a policyj is being forgot-
ten and eyen frittered away.”
All-out War?
Major-General Walter Bedell
Smith, when he lately resigned
from his post as U.S. Under-
secretary for State, was
described by “New York
Times”: “A spare, gaunt, tired
and slightly snappy 59-year-old
soldier, General Smith went
out as he came in—talking
straight and making sense.”
In the course of a discussion
with two “N. Y. Times” corres-
pondents, James B. Reston and
Walter H. Waggoner, the
General was asked if he thought
he would “see an atomic war
in his time.” His answer:
“I don’t know. It is impos-
sible to say. It may be that
these frightful weapons will
cancel-out each other. It is
conceivable that, as in the case
of gas, neither side will be
willing to be the first to use it.
On the other hand, during the
last war we knew that the Ger-
mans had a large supply of very
effective gas, more effective
than any gas we had, we later
found out when we captured
some of it.
“A nation, regardless of its
protestations or regardless of its
intentions, if it is driven to the
wall, if it feels that its national
existence is and that
it is losing a war, will turn to
any weapon that it can use.
“Another line of reasoning is
that a nation determined on
aggression, no matter what its
protestations, may take an
opportunity to deal by surprise
a crippling blow if it feels that
that blow may be sufficiently
devastating to ensure success.
“So whether or not you be-
lieve that there is likely to be
atomic conflict, you have to
guard against it and you have
to be strong enough to prevent
being crippled by a surprise
stroke.
“Let us go a little farther.
When we had, let us say, ten
atomic bombs and the Russians
had none, we were relatively
stronger than when we have
however - many - we’ve-got-now
and they have some. We pre-
sent a series of concentrated
targets, whereas they are more
dispersed.”
Various Voices
Yugoslav President Tito:
“Regardless of the sacrifices
made by Yugoslavia in the
[Trieste] agreement, I and other
members of the Yugoslav Gov-
ernment are satisfied that in that
part of the world a question is
settled which worried the world.”
Arthur F. Burns, chairman of
the U.S. President’s Council of
Economic Advisers: “Construc-
tion [in America] has been setting
new records each month. Con-
sumer-spending is at an all-time
high. The steel industry, which
is very sensitive to the tides of
trade, is now operating at a rate
of 72 per cent., whereas only a
few weeks ago it was at a 60 per
cent, level. Automobile-produc-
tion will soon be in high gear
again. The machinery trades
have picked up. New orders are
reported to be increasing all
around, and the offices of archi-
tects are bursting with new plans
for homes, factories, power-
plants, pipelines and all sorts of
commercial buildings.”


a3QN3d
Hl*
rrrprr
Frrrrrrr
rrrrrrrr
rrrrrrrrr
rrrrrrrrr
ECCCCCCC
■m
38WB
,
B
a
3SINONOD3
• •
dsiMesnoq eg
w hen you own a Defender you own a
freezer locker and a spacious refrigerator all in one.
You'll be ready for anything ... from constant daily
use to unexpected company ... you'll be food stocked
and shopped for days. There's the two models to
choose from Selectra Style and Country Style.
Both are finished in snowy white enamel, with more
than 13 sq. ft. of shelf area and 7.1 cu. ft. capacity.
Defender in your home is the safest investment for
health, utility, convenience and economy.
Send for coloured brochure!
Mail this coupon to International Harvester Company
of Australia Ply. Ltd. in your capital city.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
Country Style
(KEROSENE OPERATION)
Designed for economical opera-
tion anywhere with silent
trouble-free operation on kero-
sene. No moving parts
nothing to go wrong. An invest-
ment in any country residence.
Selectra Style
(SEALED UNIT)
You can choose the right
climate for all your foods. A
mere touch on the built-in
thermostatic Selector and your
Defender will do the rest.
01.801-36
Please forward without obligation your
coloured brochure on the DEFENDER.
ELECTRIC □ KEROSENE □
Mrs.
Mr.
Is brochure for school project?
YES
NO
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKsan a
osuujv/v*
man
Mlft?
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ei TEARS OF SERVICE
TO IBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
■yO’RAY was sleeping soundly.
Dr. Perry found a piece of
notepaper and an envelope,
scribbled Wray’s story down for
him, sealed the envelope and
pinned it by the doorknob where
he must notice it.
Sister Ingle, meanwhile, had
returned to her own room for
a clean dress. There were
smudges and bloodspots on the
one she was wearing, probably
from Perry’s bleeding nose.
Changing, she went over the
night’s events in her mind. Dr.
Wray, she decided, was a “bad
lot,” a “false friend.” She could
still see Dr. Perry’s puzzled thin
face and hear his bitter “Here’s
where love comes.., . torn and
bleeding.”
Guided by her knowledge of
romantic novels, she fitted Sister
Parridge’s overheard tears into
the pattern to her own satisfac-
tion. She was smiling as she
pushed her arms down the cold
sleeves of the fresh uniform,
board-stiff and stuck together
with starch. Then an extra-
ordinary emotion took her, so
that she had to swallow, and,
for a minute, could hardly see.
After ten years of waiting the
thing had happened. The situa-
tion so long awaited had arisen.
And that dirty uniform cast
over her chair represented it,
and the end of it.
Nothing so unexpected and
peculiar, so unpleasant and ex-
citing, was ever likely to happen
again. Stuffing the soiled overall
into her laundry-bag, she re-
membered the tooth, rescued it
from the pocket and turned it
over on her palm. Then she
slipped it into a tumbler of
water, adding a few drops of
antiseptic lotion. The tooth
shone, distorted through the
glass ; to her it seemed beautiful ;
a perfect tooth.
Emerging again into the corri-
dor she almost ran into Dinny
Parsons. He carried a hurricane-
lantern, and his face, in the light
thrown up from it, looked
anxious.
“Oh, Dinny. You gave me a
start.”
“Sorry, Sister. Now, don’t
you worry, but there’s something
queer. I’d swear I heard sounds
in the special clinic, but the
door was locked. Then I found
bloodstains on the path. Can’t
see anything, but I thought I’d
keep around the main buildings.”
“Thanks, Dinny.” My good-
ness, lucky they got out of the
clinic without him seeing them.
“Dr. Perry had a nasty fall,”
she told him; “perhaps he bled
on the path.” Earlier, she
thought, when I was thinking so
easily and differently, I’d have
inypnted something better than
that.
OY the following April, Sister
** Ingle, after a brief holiday,
was again on night-duty. On
her first night as she brewed
coffee in the nurse’s pantry
Sister Parridge came in.
“Evening,” she yawned;
“could there be enough for
me?”
“Ample. You look pleased
with yourself.” The girl smiled.
Sister Ingle knew a moment of
envy, scarcely measurable, at
the sight of the young woman’s
happy face, her good figure, her
self-possession.
“Why wouldn’t I be? I’ve
just finished my night-duty.”
“Seems to have got you into
the way of late hours,” Sister
Ingle observed dryly. Mary
Parridge laughed.
“I don’t like it much,” she
confessed ; “I can’t get used to
that gruesome corridor, spooky
—does that sound silly to you?”
“No. No. I always used to
expect something there myself.
Not afraid or anything. Just
expect.” They drank their
coffee thoughtfully.
“We must be tired,” said
Sister Parridge, “talking like
this. I’d hate the nurses to hear.”
“I got over it,” Sister Ingle
confided; her grey eyes
twinkled; “I had a bit of an
adventure once ... it cured me.”
“Fancy,” the younger woman
sounded polite but not very in-
terested ; “did you? Well, thank
God I shan’t be doing it again.
It’ll tell you a secret. I’m going
to be married.”
“How very nice. I am glad.”
Sister Ingle smiled warmly. “No
one I’d know?”
“Hardly. He’s a friend from
my home town. Just down here
for a holiday, but we’ve been
out a lot. Farmer, name of
Sims.”
CO, Sister Ingle thought, her
own interpretation of this
girl’s part in July’s drama had
been wrong, after all. No. Or
not to be given up so simply.
“I’ll tell you something, Mary.
I sometimes thought Dr.
Perry . . .”
“Him! Good grief! Since
you are so observant, Ingle, I
was a bit keen. Even tried mak-
ing him jealous once. Do you
remember Dr. Wray who was
here then?”
“A fat young man?” She
fumbled in her pocket. She kept
his tooth there in a box. So
foolish. A talisman, a souvenir.
“Yes. That’s him. I let him
take me out one night and made
sure Perry saw us coming back.
It didn’t work. • Silly Wray was
the one to get upset. He must
have really thought I liked him,
I suppose, at least until he got
me home. He went off after we
said good-night and got plas-
tered in his room. Then he
knocked a tooth out falling over
a chair or something, and Perry
got hurt putting him to bed.
They backed each other up in
some cock-and-bull yarn of a
car-smash. But jealous? No.
Just dumb.” ,
“Imagine that,” sighed Sister
Ingle ; “and do you know I was
on duty that night!”
“Well, novy you have the true
story. I suppose those two
clowns fooled you, too.”
“I’m afraid, dear, that my
generation takes things very
much at face-value,” said Sister
Ingle.
telephone connected. Here, a
young publican (Richard
Barratt) and his wife are marry-
ing with some success the old
and the new. Leaving the archi-
tecture of the place basically
unchanged, they have stripped
off all the old paint and paper
inside and done the rooms out in
gay, lively colors.
Old and new are virtually
split in two at the Vine Inn at
Nuriootpa—now the local com-
munity-hotel. A new, handsome
two-story wing is built on to the
squat, peppercorn - shaded
original inn. Old vines shade a
courtyard at the back, and, until
recently, there was a scooped-
out log horse-trough at the
entrance to the yard. I liked that
knotted, grey old trough, and
was sad to find this visit that it
had been replaced by a concrete
trough.
Later in the week we pushed
on to the old goldmining settle-
ment of Echunga, in the Mt.
Lofty Ranges. We called at the
101-year-old Hagen Arms, where
a big coat-of-arms over the
door reminds you that the Duke
of Edinburgh ate there on his
way by coach to visit the diggers
in 1867.
There used to be a fine old
gum-tree horse-trough outside
the Hagen Arms, a relic of the
days when the inn was a staging-
point for South Coast coaches.
We had a drink with wattle-
barking septuagenarian Bernard
Liebelt, whose grandmother sold
vegetables to the miners in 1854
—and then we went to look for
the trough.
It was there, disconnected, but
filled with perfumed, growing
flowers! Thanks, Echunga.


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES; BU 8025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
what....
no Mobilco!
life is
easier,
MOBIICO
Motor
Mower
t9B
df
d
I would like a demonstration of the
Mobilco Motor Mower at hom&
Name ——
Address
Mobiles it right out in front'With its big 98 c.c.
Villiers engine ... its special clutch which lets
the cutting blades drive without the ground roller
being dtiven excellent for neat trimniing under
trees, around shrubs and along edges ... its
splendid performance and absolute ease of
handling. SIX MONTHS GUARANTEE AND YOURS
FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS.
LONG-GRASS CUTTER
A quick-fit Rotary Long-Grass
Culler available at extra cost.
Ideal for cleaning up back
yards and neglected grass
growth. Drives front power
take-off pulley.
MO BILE
INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT
LIMITED
47 SOUTH PARADE,
CAMPSIE, N.S.W.
Telephone: IF 4209
ROOT-ZONE
MOISTURE
CONTROL
THE MOST
IMPORTANT
SINGLE FACTOR
IN
AGRICULTURE
m
Nothing affecting crop yield and quality
is as important as irrigation. Revolu-
tionary improvements in irrigation equip-
ment have been primarily concerned with
attaining more economical delivery on the
surface of the ground and do little to solve the
most vital problem—control of underground
moisture in the Root Zone. This is what deter-
mines yield and profits for the grower. Before
this moisture can be controlled it must be measured.
Lirrometerj
■ TRADE MARK
MOISTURE INDICATOR
ANSWERS THIS PROBLEM
The Irrometer registers on an easy to read gauge the amount
of water actually available at the roots and under field conditions
is accurate to within 3%. It tells exactly what irrigation is
needed, when irrigation can safely be discontinued and assures
maximum benefit with minimum water usage.
FOR ROOT AND TREE CROPS
Distributors for N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
P.O, Box 509 10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney Phone: BU 5095
Branches; Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay; and at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l
GD44
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of verse called “Two Sides
of the Question” containing the lines:
Oh to be out of it, out of it.
Away from the roar and rattle.
The beggar’s whine, the pious fraud,
The dirt, disease and sin.
—5935.
Words of verse said to have been
written by Dr. Richard Arthur,
M. about Sir Samuel
McCaughey, containing the lines:
Sam, why stand by ? If you would do
t Your duty to the State
Y r ou’d scout about like mad, old lad,
And find a loyal mate.
—5937.
To buy, copy of The Gadfly by
Voynich, and The Mysteries of the
People or History of a Proletarian
Family Across the Ages by Eugene
Sue—s 939.
To buy, a muzzle-loading rifle. —
5941.
Information Sought
Origin of the custom of tattooing
among natives? What purpose does
it serve?
Though the word is Polynesian, the
custom appears to have been almost
universal. Arabs, North and South
American Indians, Chinese, Japanese
and Burmese all tattoo. The original
idea probably was to attract the
opposite sex by ornament. The Maori
warriors used the process to give
themselves a ferocious appearance in
battle, but the women also tattooed
to add to their beauty. In most
races it assumed, in the course •ot
evolution, social or religious signifi-
cance ; in Polynesia it is begun in or
about the twelfth year, and becomes
a mark of puberty. Among other
natives it is a means of recognition, a
mark of courage, or a sign of mourn-
ing.
♦ * * ♦
What foods are without vitamins ?
The following are some (unless vita-
mins are deliberately added): tinned,
salted or potted meats, meat extracts,
white fish, white flour, white corn-
flour, polished rice, pearl-barley,
tapioca, sago, vegetable margarine,
lard, olive-oil, tea, coffee, cocoa,
sugar and jam.
» * * *
Some information about the planet
Pluto ?
The outermost planet of the solar
system, Pluto, was discussed photo-
graphically at the Lowell Observatory
in March, 1930, as a result of a syste-
matic search for a trafis-Neptunian
planet. The existence of such a planet
had been suggested many years before,
and although the predicted elements
of the orbit differ in some respects
from the true facts, yet these pre-
dictions were undoubtedly responsible
for the ultimate discovery. The planet
was called Pluto, and would appear to
be small with a mass possibly much
less than that of the earth. It would
also appear to be a poor reflector ot
the sun’s light, since it shines only
as a star of the 14th-15th magnitude.
Its orbit is now sufficiently well de-
fined to allow positions of the planet
to be given in the almanacs.
* * * *
Some details about Patrick Hannan,
discoverer of the Kalgoorlie goldfield ?
He was born in Ireland about 1843,
and emigrated to Australia and arrived
in Melbourne in 1863. For some
years he worked in the mines at
Ballarat, and in 1874 went to New
Zealand. Returning to Australia in
1880 he was one of the first in the
rush at Temora (N.S.W.), and was
afterwards prospecting in Q’land,
N. S. Wales, Tas., and South Aust.
In 1889 he went to Western Aust.
and was one of the pioneers in the
Parker’s. Range district. His fortunes
varied for three or four years until in
June, 1893, with two associates named
Flannagan and Shea, Hannan left a
party they were with to search for a
horse that had been lost. They were
then about 50 miles north-east ot
Coolgardie and during the search
accidentally came upon some nuggets.
Hannan returned to Coolgardie to
apply for a reward claim, and the find
at once became public property. The
new field became the site of Kalgoor-
lie and the most important gold-bear-
ing area in Western Aust. Hannan
continued to prospect for some years,
but eventually retired on a pension
from the W.A. Government. He died
in Melbourne on November 4, 1925.
Brief Answers
G.E.: Empire Day was inaugur-
ated in 1902 on May 24, Queen Vic-
toria’s birthday W.C.8.: The
Decembrists were conspirators in-
volved in the Russian mutiny of
officers at St. Petersburg on Decem-
ber 26, 1828 (December 14, orthodox
style). The survivors of those who
were neither hanged nor shot were
pardoned by Alexander II in 1856,
after 21 years in Siberia... .F.8.M.:
The story “At the Cross Roads” by
Harold Mercer (“Hamer”) appeared
in The Bulletin of September 22,
1900 S.L.D.: Wordsworth’s
Poems, edited and introduced by
Philip Wayne in three volumes (Nos.
203, 311 and 998) in Everyman’s
Library W.A.K.: History of Eng-
lish Literature by Emile Legouis and
Louis Cazamian, published by J, M.
r
Dent, London... .G.S. I Australian
Aborigines by A. P. Elkin, obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney;
price 30s L.C.: J. F. Archibald
died on September 10, 1919. John
Haynes died on August 15, 1917....
E.S.F.: Write New Zealand Broad-
casting Service, Box 3015, G.P.0.,
Wellington (N.Z.)... .S.C.: Mt. Isa
(Q.) is 1328 miles by road from Bris-
bane E.8.L.: The six highest
buildings in New York are Empire
State, 1472 ft.; Chrysler Building,
1046 ft.; 60 Wall-Street, 950 ft.; Bank
of Manhattan, 927 ft.; Rockefeller
Centre, 850 ft.; and Woolworth’s,
792 ft R.D.: A partial eclipse
of the sun will be seen in Australia
on December 25 next L.W.: To
“put Kinchela on shears” means to
sharpen them, and is derived from
a pamphlet on the care and sharpen-
ing of shears by one Kinchela....
R.D.L.: In 1928 “The Sydney Mail”
was edited by W. R. Charlton, “The
World’s News” by George Todd,
“The Wentworth Magazine” by Mrs.
Fitzmaurice Gill, and “Sunday
Times” (Sydney) by M. J. Shanahan.
J
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.M.: Never have we met such
rapid drinkers. They “drain another
glass” after every paragraph
M.G.: Sorry, but your latest isn’t
even in the “try-again” class
R.C.: Anyone who uses “my
friends” as often as you do takes a
lot for granted.. ..R.S.McK.:
Market quotation for monkey-gland
stories, two a penny C.V.: There
are limits of probability even in a
love-story F.J.8.: Verse begin-
ning “The day in dreary languor
dies” is now also defunct L.F.:
Four lines, then:
Of all the plagues that curse us
And make us feel accurst,
The deadly mosquito chorus
Is by far away the worst.
....“Bill Bluegum”: We should say
as a poet you call for. ringbarking
R.S.D.: Six months without the
option for the man who, instead of
“hunger,” writes “the strident demands
of the inner economy” H.E.F.:
No, they are not “worth anything
from a financial standpoint”....
M.H.: One stanza:
Oh, Hilda, dear, if your life and mine
Could always coupled be.
We’d sing songs, and drink wine,
A glass, perhaps, or two or three.
P.F.: We thought you knew us
better than that... .J.U.G.: Good-
bye, “Spring,” good-bye, good-bye!
D.M.P.: Duly noted that you
have “carried a swag for many miles,”
“been droving on the plains,” “done
a stretch in a country jail,” and
“suffered aches and pains”... .A.L.:
Lines from “A Swagman Dying with
Dry Horrors”:
I’m goin’, boys, the end is almost near,
There’s a horrid sound buzzing in my
ear.
When I go, drink to me in Toohey’s beer,
And say: “Of death he had no fear.”
. ...M.T.: That Irish yarn is older
than Ireland R.W.: Travel-notes
travelling back M.S.: It’s simply
wonderful how the moon affects some
people F.C.: Gone where the bad
stories go J.G.J.: Your friends are
possibly good friends, but they’re poor
judges of verse... .H.S.: No color in
it apart from the red ink F.D.:
A masterly opening;
Crikey! What’s this paper ’ere, Bert,
What’s this dashed blue paper doing
’Ere? Don’t tell me it’s from the skirt
You jilted, and that now you she’s
suing.
R.D.: How long have you had
that story in cold-storage?....
R.C.K.: Sozzled sailor sobering up in
the w.p.b M.J.: Keeping well
away from “The Bushranger’s
Haunt” E.D.; Of your menagerie
we select the mopoke for exhibition;
The mopoke perched in gums near streams
Or on any other bushland roost,
At night makes most lugubrious screams,
As if he was the Devil’s feathered ghoost.
From his throat there is unloosed
Such morbid hoots and a dreadful cry.
Shattering the nerves of men who are
boozed,
Making them wish that they could die.


fd
mm*
essential to sheep for . . . •
TOP CONDITION & BLOOM’,
STRONG, VIRILE LAMBS,
and MAXIMUM FERTILITY
Until recently sheep depended entirely upon green pastures for vitamin A which
is essential in adequate amounts for good condition and 'bloom'. Large losses
and economic setbacks were suffered when climatic conditions rendered pastures
a poor or totally deficient source of this important vitamin. Now, by using
High Potency 'VETEMUL' to supply vitamin A to sheep, the serious conse-
quences of vitamin A deficiency that were accepted as unavoidable can be pre-
vented.
High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' is a concentrated
veterinary emulsion sup-
plying 25,000 units
vitamin A and 2,500
units vitamin D per
gramme. High Potency
'VETEMUL' is specially
designed to give graziers
an easy and accurate
method of vitamin A dosing. High
Potency 'VETEMUL' may be given
readily in a normal drench gun such
as is used for phenothiazine. High
Potency 'VETEMUL' is a most con-
venient form of vitamin A supple-
mentation as one dose provides full
vitamin A requirements for three
months following onset of dry sum-
mer conditions.
HIGH POTENCY
‘VeteffMil’
lIBADE MAR*I
PRODUCT OF NICHOLAS PTY. LTD.
One gallon of High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' (£13.13.0) is sufficient for
one dose each to 220 sheep (rams,
ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs
only 1 /3d. each for sheep and lOd.
each for iambs. Each dose of High
Potency 'VETEMUL' for adult sheep,
containing 500,000 international
units of vitamin A, supplies full re-
quirements for 3 months.
WHERE TO OBTAIN HIGH POTENCY 'YEIEMUL', mgh Potency
is obtainable from your Pastoral House or usual station suppliers,
information is required on the subject write for brochure “B.”
‘VETEMCE’
If further
VIO/54
TUr/u JaA (Pty. j£td.
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St.. Molb. Branches in all States
ideal for
YOUR KITCHEN, TOO
Give your Kitchen a "new home" look replace
your outworn, hard-to-clean unit now, with a
polished Wunderlich Stainless Steel Sink. You'll
be delighted with the work it will save you. There's
a size to suit your Kitchen—single or double bowl.
Ask your local hardware merchant, 'phone MX 2411
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Baptist Street,
Redfern, for illustrated folder and prices.
STAINLESS STEEL SINKS
THE PERFECT SINK AND DRAINER
///IV
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THROUGH IRISH EYES
A USTR ALLAN and Irish
farming may seem to be
occupations rather remote from
each other. But there are points
of contact. Basic problems of
nutrition, disease, costs, remain
much the same, and in dairying,
particularly, parallels emerge.
Cows, after all, are conservative
creatures. And farmers naturally
take an interest in farming,
wherever they may be.
My impressions of Australian
farming are impressions, no
more. But they inevitably pro-
yoke comparisons with my own
experience, in which, perhaps,
Australians in the same line of
business may be interested. A man
with a more intimate knowledge
of Australian conditions may
well be able to draw more valu-
able conclusions than my own.
The most obvious difference,
of course, is the weather. Ire-
land, with an annual rainfall of
some 33in., supplemented by
snow and frost (which makes an
enormous difference), has clear
advantages so far as the growth
of fodder for cows is concerned.
On the other hand, to be able to
keep cows in the open all the
year round is a wonderful advan-
tage ; whereas, in Ireland, we
have the extra cost of keeping
enough fodder to feed our stock
through the winter ; extra labor ;
and a high incidence of disease
associated with the conditions
under which the stock must be
kept, and the extremely cold,
bleak weather.
Soil - conservation, which
seems to be rather a fundamental
principle in this country, is
unheard-of in Ireland. As it will
be here (in my opinion) in
another 50 years. Hedges,
banks, walls and drains provide
natural contours, checks to soil-
erosion, and have been there for
hundreds of years. Given time,
I think the same process will
work out in Australia, with
more farms and more intensive
cultivation.
In both England and Ireland,
at the present time, there is a
good deal of doubt as to the
best “dual-purpose” cow to keep
on the farm. When I came to
Australia I was amazed to find a
breed which, in my opinion,
beats anything in the world —the
Australian Illawarra Shorthorn.
In Ireland we think highly of
the Dairy Shorthorn ; the British
think a lot of the Friesian for
both milk- and butterfat-produc-
tion. But I hadn’t been here long
“ Batching?”
*
before I found that by “dual-
P ur P ose ” Australians meant not
sim P ] y a g°°d all-round dairy
COW^ bUt r e M h lt hCO J ll h a nd f r ,
good vealen M,lk and butterfat
and beef - To ra y mmd ’ the
breeders of the AXS - have
achieved something towards
which breeders in other parts of
the world are slowly working as
an ideal of the dual-purpose cow.
Looking at Australian agricul-
ture, as an outsider once more,
I noticed that the mouldboard-
plough, still in very active use at
home, is almost obsolete here ;
naturally enough, considering
your greater areas, dry, hard soil
(generally speaking), and con-
siderable portions of rough,
scrubby land. We Irish are for-
tunate in our soil. The average
farm in Ireland is only between
30 and 40 acres, and in some
cases 15 per cent, of this is waste
or mountain. Yet a man can live
and rear a family on this limited
acreage, and keep a decent stand-
ard of living. For the same
standard, the same man would
need, say, 750 acres here. Such
comparisons are tricky, I know;
and Australia has considerable
variations in soil. But, taken all
round, I think that is a fair
comparison of the relative rich-
ness of the soil.
To get back to Ireland: There
are now eight main artificial-
insemination stations, and 34
sub-stations, in that compact
country ; extensions of the ser-
vice are being considered, or
T aI^ y n Under r y - MOre
than 73 >000 animals were in-
semmated artificially in 1953,
and > to date > considerable public-
ity has been given to the tech-
nique, not only as a quick means
of improving the quality of the
national stock, but as a quite
effective method for the control
of certain diseases,
These stations will help to
bring Irish farming to a much
higher level than exists at pre-
sent: the full impact will be
felt after several years. Before
the A.I. stations were estab-
lished, a poor-to-middling
farmer (financially speaking) had
small chance of improving his
herd. If he kept a bull (and
most small men didn't), the
price of a good one might land
him in serious difficulties ; and
even then the quality wasn’t
comparable with the type of
bulls kept by the insemination-
stations. Poor farmer, poor
farm, poor stock, poor family.
The cycle continued, and the
artificial-insemination scheme
was the first imaginative attempt
to break it.
For the farmer in a small way,
the scheme opens new horizons.
Just think! The service of a
pure-bred bull, valued at any-
thing from one to three thous-
and pounds, for 15s. per ser-
vice. A whole crop of heifers
sired by this animal, with an
upgrading reflected in produc-
tion as soon as they come into
milk; and so on. Multiplied
throughout the country, this
makes a wonderful difference to
national prosperity.
According to my information
the system will be introduced
into Australia shortly. Results
may be less dramatic than in
Ireland, and the possibilities of
the technique for beef-produc-
tion, on a large scale, anyway,
are beyond my competence to
give an opinion. So far as I
know, no definite plans for
artificial-insemination of beef-
cattle are being considered. But
artificial-insemination, and, asso-
ciated with it, progeny-testing,
will make a very great difference
to the dairying industry, and
ultimately to the entire livestock
population of Australia.
But don’t get the idea that
Ireland is an advanced country,
agriculturally. At present the
Irish cow produces only 400-
420gals. of milk and 1401b. of
butterfat a year. In Denmark,
with less land and small farms,
the comparable average produc-
tion is 835gals. of milk and
3591b. of butterfat.
Given production at the
Danish level, and the present
number of cows in Ireland, Irish
butter (at prices paid for Danish
butter), would bring in more
than £42 million a year from
overseas sales. In round figures,
Denmark is exporting dairy-
products and eggs amounting to
£106 million a year. In contrast,
Ireland’s total exports of meat,
dairy-products, poultry, fish,
eggs, and “other foods of animal
origin” last year were worth only
£27 million.
We have a long way to go: in
pigmeats, to give an example,
Denmark is far ahead of the
rest of the world. But here, too,
the lessons are being applied.
The basic industry and chief
economic potential of the Re-
public of Ireland is, and will
remain, livestock. Australia, it
seems to me, has somewhat
similar problems and poten-
tialities.
ROY A. WHITNEY.
Faults in Fleeces
Of late years, with the cut-
ting-up of large properties, the
number of small flocks has
increased, and therefore the
number of classers and owner-
classers has also increased.
These men who have the
responsibility for the “get-up”
of the clip should take every
precaution to see that their
classing meets the requirements
of the buyers, and that the
quality and standard of the
wool in each line is maintained.
When it is considered that the
prices paid for the same line
of wool often vary considerably,


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’ BOY” DUSTER AND
FERTILISER SPREADER
Write to nour nearest State
Distributor for jree particulars:
X.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’a (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland LtcLi
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO..
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
m
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
f
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied-makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established /or 25 years
' 1 DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St, Sydney.
y’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: • Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide,
W.A.: K. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St, Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee. Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St..
Auckland.
X€AVy
TV
LYSAGHT
cyyfll
a
PRICE
EX
WORKS
>•* >
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrjlled support angles and bolts.
• Wall and,rooj sheets of curved design,
eliminating need for framework.
• Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 feet. Width, 10 feet.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 feet.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE
ALL PRICES EX
NEWCASTLE WORKS
ora*
Front wall (to take
double doors), £l3.
Double Doors
(S' x 6'6" opening),
£ll/10/-.
Barge boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" opening.
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' x 2'). £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names toy
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD.,
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD..
NEWCASTLE
CAPITAL CITIES
df
and that the variation has been
due, not only to the immediate
needs of the buyer but to the
quality of the wool offered for
sale, the need becomes obvious.
Even an extra penny a pound
may mean hundreds, even thous-
ands, of pounds to the wool-
cheque. An owner should keep
his primary aims in mind. He
should try to grow a staple of
good length for its quality-
number, sound, of an attractive
appearance and character, and
cutting in weight as much as
the sheep can profitably afford.
Too much of the effort in grow-
ing this type of fleece may be
lost if the owner or classer over-
looks the fact that there may be
defects in the fleece that de-
prive it of a great deal of its
value, from a manufacturing
viewpoint.
Faults such as “tar-brands”
cause serious loss and extra
expense to the manufacturer,
not only by the fact that it costs
more to process this wool but
also because the fabric produced
is inferior. The small particles
of tar which manage to get
through the scour become dis-
tributed throughout the material,
and are not noticed until the
application of heat and moisture
during finishing or felting, which
causes them to melt and form a
dirty spot. This causes the
material or felt to be almost
useless for pastel-shades.
In branding sheep, tar or
paint should be avoided, and
L.B.E. (lanoline-base emulsion)
branding-fluid should be used.
This is recommended by
C.5.1.R.0. It has been sub-
jected to tests, and it has been
proved that it will stay on sheep
for the 12 months between
shearings, and will scour out
under normal scouring condi-
tions. The correct color should
also be used ; for instance, don’t
use red L.B.E. in red-soil
country.
Jute and string are of vege-
table origin, and, as they do not
always take the same dyestuffs
as the wool, unless they are re-
moved a certain percentage will
find their way to the finished
material. During manufacture
they become broken into small
pieces. So, when the material
is dyed, they remain undyed and
appear on the surface of the
material; a serious defect. All
packs of new bales should be
opened up outside the wool-
room, given a good shake and
hung on a fence in the sun. Any
pieces of string attached should
be pulled away by hand.
Wool-packs should not be
sewn up with string or twine ;
metal bale-fasteners should be
used.
Black and dark-colored fibres
are occasionally found in
Merino fleeces, and often met
with in the skirtings from some
British breeds, such as Suffolk
Down, Shropshire Down,
Hampshire Down, etc. Wool-
growers should be careful not
to allow these dark fibres to
become mixed with the fleece-
wool. If black or grey patches
are seen in Merino sheep they
should be carefully removed and
placed in a bag or wool-pack
and forwarded for sale
separately.
J. S. BOARDMAN.
The Pig Glut
“Sunset”: With 28 per cent,
more piglets in Australia’s spring
crop—50 per cent, rise in
Victoria —pigs are going to be
still harder to sell. Baconers
bought £24 each last year, are
worth only £14 now—and prices
could be lower.
Best thing to do is to sell
more porkers and market
baconers at lighter weights.
Quality is more important than
ever, and buyers have plenty of
pigmeat to choose from.
Don’t try to save food on
young pigs of brood sows. Give
them all they can eat to grow
fast and produce lean meat. But
sell them as soon as they are in
good condition. Don’t waste
time and money making them
too fat. And don’t rely too much
on bought food, warns Victoria’s
pig expert L. A. Downey.
Ratoon-stunting
“S. Cane”: Ratoon-stunting,
a worry for Queensland cane-
growers, is being dealt with in
the Moreton central sugar-mill
area in a way that should be
satisfactory. It is a virus disease
which can be spread from block
to block by cane-knives, cutter-
planters and other implements
which come in actual contact
with cane ; also by cane-setts cut
from diseased cane used in
planting new areas. However,
cane-setts hotwater-treated in a
certain way will render them
disease-free.
The idea is to plant areas with
setts which have been given this
hotwater treatment and thus
have blocks of disease-free cane
which will provide material to
replant other areas as the blocks
of diseased cane are ploughed
out. It will be necessary to have
new plantings made through
permit only, so as to assure that
only disease-free material is
used.
Cane-knives and other imple-
ments will need to be thoroughly
sterilised when moving from one
block to another. It is con-
sidered that with proper super-
vision the disease can be com-
pletely wiped out in a year or so.
Humus in Orchards
“Ay”: Humus is important in
orcharding, especially where
subsoils are inclined to be
gravelly or stony.
It can be adddU in various
ways: by allowing weed-growth
to develop; growing cover-
crops ; making applications of
hay or straw.
In addition to increasing the
moisture-holding capacity of the
soil, humus increases nutrient-
holding capacity; improves the
soil-structure and aeration ; im-
proves soil-drainage; assists
better water-penetration.
The most satisfactory method,
particularly in lower-rainfall
areas, is the application of hay
or straw. With sufficient
material a permanent mulch
can be maintained. Cultivation
would then be unnecessary, the
mulch being a great enough
depth to suppress weeds.
However, annual applications
will be required to maintain the
depth. In most instances it will
be found that two bales of hay
per tree, initially, with one
additional bale each year, will
be sufficient. Late autumn or
early winter is a good time to
lay the straw out.
To allow for subsequent shal-
low cultivation by a spring-
tooth cultivator, the material
must be well incorporated in the
soil. Use of a rotary-hoe will
be found satisfactory.
Heavy applications of nitro-
gen (from H to 41b. sulphate-
of-ammonia) are necessary;
trees are likely to suffer from
a deficiency of this element.
Country and City
Florence King’s article (B
27/JO/’54) touches on something
which members of the new
society “Men of the Land”
believe to be of fundamental
importance. No. 1 of our objects
reads; —
To arouse in the Australian
people, both city and country, a
full realisation of their primary
dependence upon the natural
resources of the land. . .
The founders of the society,
over a period of two years, tested
city interest in the country by
yarning casually about country
problems in trams, buses, bars
and in offices. We did not find
people apathetic. We were, in
fact, usually offered a solution
to a specific problem—but the
solutions were nearly always
different.
Obviously, then, they couldn’t
all be right. But what impressed
us was the fact that the interest
{Continued on next page)
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


‘PHENOVIS' Brand of Phenothlazln*
ANNOUNCING
FINE PARTICLE POWDER
For the first time on the world market —a
fine particle dispersable powder is
available as
SUPERFINE
PHENOVIS
POWDER
H Finely Ground, at least 80%
Very Fine Particles.
£ Cheaper.
O Easy to mix.
% Remains suspended.
% Free flowing.
%mS'
m t
-
mm
ro
The Most Efficient Drench for WORMS IN SHEEP
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
1C
■PHE.29X.705.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRUCE WALLACE BROWN late of
Svdney.— TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
ETHEL MAY BROWN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2470 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney on or before the
11th day of February 1955 A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be obtained free
of charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIb
& Co., Solicitors, of 18-20 Martin Place.
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS. Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN McDOUGALL McINNES late of
33 Eighth Avenue Jannali.— TAKE
NOTICE that MURIEL ANNIE McINNEb
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1079
of 1954 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney on or
before the 11th day of February 1905 A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be
obtained free of charge from GEOFFREY
SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, of 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.—o, A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JOHN NEWTON late of
Long Jetty.—TAKE NOTICE that DORIb
AMELIA NEWTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3623 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking the Court to exercise its dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of t e
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1951 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance by the 18th day of February 19 3 “
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney and obtain a copy oi
the Petition without charge from b. s.
MITCHELL. Solicitor, of Hunter Street,
Newcastle West, or his Sydney Agent, Mr.
J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of H 5 Pitt Street.
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Legal Notice
HARRIS
Estate of ARTHUR ALLEN
WHEREABOUTS are sought of ALLEN
MORGAN HARRIS, son of theab °'
named, or his wife, children or ff
representatives. NOTICE IS HERE
GIVEN that such persons are J ,eto ;=
the Fifteenth day of Februag’,l9s4. to
send to ARCHIE LIONEL HARRIS, of
173 Jeffcott Street. North Adelaide.
South Australia, surviving tnwtce of tn
will of ARTHUR ALLEN HARRIS, de
ceased, full particulars of any cla m tnat
ALLEN MORGAN HARRIS or his issu
has. have or had to share in the estare
of ARTHUR ALLEN HARRIS, deceased
under his will, otherwise he, sheortn
will be excluded from the distribution o
the estate. N. 8.: ARTHLR j
HARRIS died on 18th August, WIS. ana
his estate- became distributable i v«pard
ALLEN MORGAN HARRIS was last hear
of in Sydney about 16 years ago. in
serted by direction of the Supreme
of South Australia. —PICKERING,
NISH & LEMPRIERE ABBOTT, Solicitor*
for the Trustee.
was there —a pretty lively and
intelligent interest, although,
often enough, based upon an
imperfect understanding of the
problems. It seemed to us that
if this interest and goodwill could
be canalised into a movement
which embraced both city and
country people, something
practical, on a large scale, might
be done. So a leaf was taken
from the book of the Afnerican
society “Friends of the Land”
and membership included
country and city residents.
Asa society we are yet very
young. Whether we shall attain
the breadth and influence of the
American society depends on
how many members, representa-
tive of a range of interests, we
can get, and how keen these
members are on achieving our
objects. To put it another way:
On how large a proportion of the
population of Australia clearly
perceive the immense dangers
and potentialities, in a national
sense, that hinge on bad or good
use of our land; and on how
many people are prepared to go
beyond an intellectual apprecia-
tion of this central fact, and do
something about it.
There are factors, of a more
immediate nature, which tend to
stimulate an interest in the land in
the average city man. A problem
for Australia, and for the world,
is the question of the distribution
of farm surplus. It is said, on
the one hand, that the farmer
cannot be expected to donate his
surplus to poorer countries, that
the cost must be met by all —
including city people. Hence a
very real interest. On the other
hand there are contrary argu-
ments reflected in protests at
rises in certain foodstuffs. Again,
a strong personal interest. It
might not be very far wrong to
say that at the present time there
is a stronger metropolitan
interest (stimulated by a number
of factors) in the land than at
any other time in the last 20
years. It seems important to us
that this interest should flow into
effective channels.
The interest is manifested most
strikingly in response to events
which are themselves dramatic.
Floods, for instance, which have
been fairly frequent of late
years. The Lord Mayor of
Sydney recently had £98,000 in
hand for flood-relief —which
indicates that city people can give
generously for the relief of actual
distress, when their imagination
is stirred by a catastrophe which
they can understand. Taking
another look at that £98,000
doesn’t it follow, then, that the
city man has earned some little
right to an opinion on these
problems?
Our society is trying to
develop the city interest in the
land, at this early stage, by what-
ever means we have at hand. For
example, the society is showing
Conservation films and the docu-
mentary “The Back of Beyond”
to city members this month.
Later we hope to do more along
these lines; to take city people
into certain districts and let them
see for themselves what is going
on.
We have, we believe, much of
a practical interest to offer
country members. But leaving
that aside for the moment, con-
centrating on the matter of the
education of city opinion—it is
obvious that country people can
help enormously, simply by being
patient and answering questions.
Don’t scoff at questions and
ideas which may very well seem
naive. Don’t, in fact, do any-
thing to subdue a burgeoning
city interest. For whatever the
eccentricities and naivete of
individuals, there is no doubt
that an awakening city interest in
the land will be a very good thing
for the farmer and grazier, and
for Australia.
Country people can help by
writing to the society about their
current problems; city people
can learn a good deal from such
concrete information. If the
society can help to solve indi-
vidual problems of country
people, we will be happy to do
so.
Asa matter of interest—“ Men
of the Land” has almost a 50-50
proportion of city and country
members. We hope this trend
continues. There can be no
doubt that land - development,
land-use and -conservation, are
everybody’s business. The slogan
of our society, I think, puts the
position clearly—“lt’s in your
hands.”
D. W. Petherbridgh
(Hon. Sec. “Men of the Land”).
Hormone Setting of
Currants
“C.A.A.”: Good results have
followed the spraying of more
than half S.A.’s 8000 acres of
currants last season with the
new P.C.P.A. The only unsatis-
factory results came from vines
on saline soils.
The tests made it clear that
vines sprayed with an excessive
amount produced fewer
bunches in the following year.
Hence the importance of apply-
ing the exact amount of spray.
The following scale is recom-
mended by the Department of
Agriculture in that State: small
vines, 40gals. per acre ; medium
vines, 60gals. per acre; large
vines, 80gals. per acre. Use
only moderate rates in non-
irrigated areas, and on no
account use more than 90gals.
A trial run with water will help
to get the right speed and pres-
sure in the pump.
Experts emphasise that the
following points be observed:
Use PUPA, at a strength of
20 p.p.m. and follow the
maker’s directions to the letter ;
spray when most of the bunches
have lost all their flower-caps ;
don’t mix other chemicals with
P.C.P.A.; spray vines only
once, keeping strictly to the
rates of application.
Insignia
“Chippewa”: At about this
time of the year back in 1932,
Victorian plantbreeder Alan Raw
crossed the two best wheats of
the day—Ghurka and Ranee
4H. By 1946 the crossbred had
passed all its tests, and became
available to farmers under the
name of Insignia.
This year, Insignia was sown
on more than 70 per cent, of
the Mallee and nearly half the
Victorian wheat-areas, respec-
tively.
Not a bad performance for a
smallish variety at which no one
looks twice until he sees its grain
filling the bags.
Using the Scythe
“Old Harry”; In this machine-
age the scythe may seem a bit
old-fashioned. But it’s still a
useful implement.
For good work the first thing
must be the hanging or fixing
of the blade to the sneyd
correctly. Depending on the
class of material to be cut, the
blade should be set at an angle
of 50 to 80 degrees from the
sneyd, more acute for tough
stuff and wider for lucerne and
green-feed generally.
A good test is to balance the
scythe by holding it off the
ground, resting the handle
nearest to the blade on the palm
of the right hand, allowing the
whole implement to hang free;
then, by standing on the right
foot, you should just be able to
touch the tip of the blade with
the left, provided the handles
are in correct position on the
sneyd for easy handling.
To use the scythe stand with
right foot about 9in. in front of
and 2ft. away from the left,
bring scythe around to the right
side, level with the right leg,
keeping the heel of scythe down
to the ground and the point 2in.
or 3in. off and swing it around —
taking only a 2in. or 3in. cut —
until the heel of the blade is
level with the left foot. It will
take two or three cuts to get the
face into a circular shape, then
move forward at each cut with
short steps, keeping right foot
in front all the time.
The blade must be kept sharp
and set so that the cutting-edge
is a little higher than the back.
To sharpen it the scythe is
placed on the left side of the
mower, with point of blade
resting on a small stone on the
ground; the heel of the blade
and sneyd being supported by
the left hand. The scythe-stone
of fine-grained sandstone or car-
borundum (about lOin. long) is
grasped by the end in the right
hand and is thus applied to the
blade.
The effect of sharpening is
produced by making sliding
strokes with the stone along the
blade on each side, alternately
upwards and downwards, but
the downward strokes only, or
those toward the point of the
blade, should be the effective
ones, the returning stroke of the
stone touching the blade lightly.
Keep the stone as flat as pos-
sible against the blade on both
sides, otherwise the edge will be
spoilt.
Object of this method of
sharpening is that the scythe cuts
after the manner of a saw —not
a chipping-hoe —and the appli-
cation of the stone as above pro-
duces this direction in the minute
teeth of the cutting-edge.
Crosscuts
British Friesian breed won
the Bledisloe Challenge Trophy
for the seventh time in succes-
sion at the Dairy Show in
London.
* » •
Western N.S.W. graziers are
becoming restive about kanga-
roos.
» * 9
U.S. plan to avoid “dust-
bowls”: between eight and nine
million acres of crop-land will
be put under grass, permanently.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Under the Main Cycle neither November nor December
should be very wet, but the Uranian Cycle may change all
this. It has been under close observation for a long time,
and there was a remarkable illustration of its activity in
Darwin recently. There, in 1870, during the Uranian
interval, three inches of rain fell in August. On only one
other occasion has there been more than a few points—
in 1909, when 109 points fell.
Irregularity due to the sunspot minimum prevented
an exact recurrence, but rain came in October. The sum
of the Main and Uranian falls made an outstanding October
rainfall for Darwin; and, incidentally, illustrates the theory
of cyclical reproduction quite clearly.
Under the Uranian Cycle Sydney may get eight inches
of rain in December instead of two inches.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Papuan Rubber
Why is the petty tuppence-a-pound
Australian import-duty on Papuan rubber
maintained? Is it so vital to consolidated-
revenue? Planters have again approached
the Tariff Board for its removal, and
their case is stronger than ever. With
rising production-costs and a shoaly
market the duty has a direct bearing on
the outlook for the industry.
By agreement, Australian manufac-
turers, while drawing the greater part of
their natural-rubber requirements from
Malaya, absorb the entire Papuan output
of 3000 tons annually through a central
marketing organisation at ruling Singa-
pore prices. This is a fraction of their
own needs and a drop in the bucket of
world-consumption. Growers have no
complaint against the manufacturers, who
have always given them sympathetic
support.
Their complaint is against the import
lax of 2d. a pound which has prevailed
since 1936. It was never intended in any
quarter that the Papuan rubber-man be
penalised in this way.
With Government packing-supervision
and grading, the quality of the Papuan
product conforms in every way to
world standards ; quality was favorably
commented on by an accepted authority
on natural rubber who visited the Terri-
tory recently at the invitation of the
Federal Government. In his country,
Malaya, planting is carried on under
vastly different conditions from those in
Papua. No pioneering there, but easily
accessible ports and good roads and rail-
ways for cheap transport; sophisticated
tapping-labor anxious to work and earn
money. Generally, the Papuan labor-boy
is completely self-sufficient, naturally
torpid and is under no compulsion, least
of all economic, to seek work. Also, the
huge Malayan rubber industry benefits
from Government-sponsored develop-
ment of high-grade planting-materials and
improved methods. Papuan labor enjoys
a five-and-a-half-day week; on Malayan
estates there is a 365-day-year production.
The small Papuan industry has, over the
reconstruction years, put a great deal of
money and energy into efforts to improve
yields with introduction from overseas
of better rubber stock ; methods have also
been closely studied and are being con-
stantly improved. It is felt by many
planters that Government help with this
could have been greater. But now, with
assured economic incentive, there is no
reason why present production potential
cannot be doubled in a decade. And is it
ever considered in Canberra that the very
large British companies in Malaya, Indo-
nesia and Ceylon might be more interested
in the politically peaceful Territory if they
could see the growers there doing better?
A full return from the commercial
rubber-tree comes after 10 years of care
and cultivation ; for the greater part of
that time there is no return at all. A
planter must progressively extend his
planted area, or replant, otherwise his
original investment will be lost with the
ageing of his trees. The ability to do this
and to enlarge his holding is the measure
of the soundness of his investment.
Papuan growers are anxious to get on
with this work. The worst times of
the early ’thirties did not stop them, and
even now sizeable areas of new plantings
are in process of development or plan-
ning. Removal of the tuppence tax will
not only be an incentive to continue but,
in the case of the small grower, will
actually make it possible.
Rubber is a strategic material; Malayan
rubber consumed in Australia for want
of greater Papuan output could be earn-
ing dollars on the U.S.A. market ; the
Papuan industry draws hundreds of
thousands of pounds’ worth of materials
for production from Australian industry.
When all other agricultural imports from
the Territory are tax-free, a tax on rubber
is unfair.
And the gross of all these tuppences?
About £55,000 annually. Pin-money to the
Treasury, but a useful shot-in-the-arm to
the modest natural-rubber industry of
Australia’s own northern colony.—
Retired Planter (N.S.W.).
Britain’s Recovery
Britain certainly is picking-up fast (B.
6/10/’54). It has made a splendid
“Why the devil can't you marry one of those silly hens in Accounts?
WE need Miss Tapper!”
economic recovery and is again ahead of
the world, or right up among the leaders,
in many other fields.
In jet-plane development Britain is
acknowledged the world over to be well
out in front. Instance the Rolls-Royce
Conway “by-pass” jet-engine, or the
invention of the “breathing” wing in jets
to reduce air-friction by half! The new
Victor jet-bomber and its civil counter-
part, the H.P. 97, are years ahead of
similar American planes or those of any
other country. And the De Havilland
company last year produced the world's
most powerful jet-engine, the Gyron.
Britons, too, have lately devised a
“rustless” ship—an “electric curtain”
around the hull to prevent corrosion
which, it is said, will save the shipping
industry millions of pounds a yearl Last
year, too, British marine-engineers per-
fected a * gas-turbine engine far more
economical than the steam-turbine.
These things are only a part of the
picture of progress. British industries,
their fear of nationalisation dissipated, are
booming. Total industrial production is
now over 50 per cent, more than it was
in 1939. Steel output, for one thing, has
broken all records in the past couple of
years. Despite this year’s bad weather,
agriculture generally is doing well. And,
despite the pessimists, Britain is more
than holding her own in the world’s
markets.
It is noticeable, also, that Britain seems
to have regained the world’s moral and
political leadership; that applies anyway
to Europe, which even American com-
mentators admit now looks for guidance
to London, not to Washington.— Maros
(W.A.).
Crimean War Relics
In this year of 1954, the hundredth
anniversary of the beginning of the
Crimean War, many relics and souvenirs
are being brought out again and dusted
and cleaned, particularly in England,
France, Turkey, etc. A number of Flor-
ence Nightingale relics, for instance, have
been sent from the St. Thomas Hospital,
London, to Turkey, not only to mark
the centenary of the “Lady with the
Lamp” landing at Scutari on November
4, 1854, but also to help stimulate the
interest of young Turkish women in
their nursing association and to gain
recruits.
Perhaps the most interesting Crimean
War relic rests in that unlikely and far-
away country, the Argentine. It is a
steam-locomotive which once ran on the
now-forgotten Crimean railway, the first
military railway in the world, and one
which undoubtedly saved the British
army before Sebastopol from death by
hunger and exposure in 1854-55.
After the campaign, the railway being
no longer needed, an English railway
engineer named Bragge bought one of
the locomotives cheaply and took it with
him to the Argentine, where he was
building the first railway—from Parques
to Floresta. The engine was originally
built by the Manning, Wardle and Co.,
Leeds, to a gauge of sft. 6in. for the
Indian railways. In the emergency of
1854 it was hurriedly diverted to the
Crimea.
In the Argentine the engine was
named La Portena, and Bragge built the
line to sft. bin. gauge to suit the loco-
motive. The railway, the Camino Ferro-
carril Oeste, eventually stretched west-
wards across the pampas to reach Men-
doza and the Andes, and sft. bin. is the
chief gauge of the Argentine railways
today.
La Portena now rests in a Buenos Aires
Museum, a long time from the days
when it puffed and snorted up the stiff
grades of Kadikoi hill to bring the much-
needed supplies to the Cathcart’s Hill
camp, and when its whistle sounded shrill
in the night against the boom of the
fortress-guns being fired from Sebastopol.
—Geo. Beesley (N.S.W.).
Atomic Defence
Requirements of atomic warfare. Army
Minister Francis told the Reps, include
greater simplification of tactics and ad-
ministration, and a restoration of the
mobility of the fighting soldier. Stream-
lining of administrative services includes
replacement of road-transport by heli-
copters and planes for supply purposes.
At the same time “it will be the constant
aim of the Army General Staff gradually
to orient its tactical thought, its organisa-
tion and equipment towards the possibility
of having to operate in South-East Asia.”
Our army of over 100,000 (includ-
ing C.M.F.) is costing Australians about
£8 a head this year. Many people pay a
lot more for fire-insurance. — Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
Defence and National Service
Granted that Australia must strike a
balance between manpower to develop
the country and the numbers required to
defend it (B. 27/10/’54), the problem
remains similar to that confronting
Britain and the U.S.A. If the hordes of
Russia and China are to be held the
accent should be on quality rather than
quantity.
The leisurely days when Australia could
expect six months to train, equip and
dispatch its first contingent are gone.
Our first contingent is now the Australian
Regular Army, and its reserves must be
fully trained and ready to take their place
in the line without delay. Britain and the
U.S.A. overcome the scarcity of volunteers
for their permanent forces and need for
fully trained reserves by a scheme of two-
years’ continual national service, the U.S.
obtaining the required number by selective
drafting.
Before 1949 there was no A.R.A. but a
Staff Corps to train and administer the
Citizen Forces. Rather than tell the
people that Australia can only meet its
commitments under Seato by adopting
a scheme of two-years’ national service,
the Government, by temporising and
introducing sectional exemptions, is
merely aggravating a difficult situation.
We have the makings of a fine Regular
Army, but it is being hamstrung by a
policy which is giving merely elementary
training for national service, and which
is failing to provide reserves of the quality
needed. It is slowly reverting to the
status and function of the old Staff Corps
instead of being strengthened to become
the spearhead of Australia’s land-forces.
As Australia cannot afford- to lose the
man-hours involved in a year’s intake of
60,000 men for two-years’ continuous
training and service, some system of selec-
tive drafting is necessary. As sectional
exemptions destroy the universal liability
for service, we could take a leaf out of
the South African Defence Act, which
provides for regional quotas being filled
by ballot.—X. N. O. (N.S.W.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 303
Across
I—lt1 —It is very funny causing dissension
in the team. (13)
8— Shore, since horse is to be found
there, may also suggest Ascot. (5)
9 Rope actor is thus to form into a
body. (11)
12— Disinfectant makes the heart of
Stephen older. (6)
13 — Illinois queen is more indisposed.
(5)
14— Friends backing a strike. (4)
16 —Direction to take cover for the
head in a draught. (4)
18 —Darkie takes the north way out.
(7)
-I—Neither partner is evident. (3)
23 — Engage in sport in the Central
Catskills. (3)
24 Bouquet for the organ composer
of “The Beggars’ Opera.” (7)
25 Seth’s son has the nose broken.
~ (4)
-6—Half of an expanding bullet sent
to a Russian Parliament. (4)
27—Ray is hidden in Lebanon or
thereabouts. (5)
30—Fights with the sword crooks
running around enclosures. (6)
32—Aircraft which annihilates the
enemy carpentry tool. (6, 5)
33 —Arabia may be qualified by this.
(5)
35 —Bobby pops the P.D. files. (6, 7)
Down
1 — This makes it difficult to hold a
petticoat on a fairy head jutting
out from the coast. (12)
2 Aristocrats’ game included in
union subscriptions. (9)
3 Iron grows for one of the Village
Blacksmith’s activities. (9)
4 Table game upset a feature of
Queen's Square, Sydney. (4)
5 Refrigerant turned in Boadicea’s
folk. (5)
6 Negative. (2)
7 Fifty gave up the judge's
hammer. (5)
10— Orientals are like Scottish
johnnies. (6)
11 — Pin your faith to the namesakes
of Mr. Keaton among the enemies
of cartels. (5-7)
15 —Keep changing a dog. (4)
17 —Provoke dash with publicity. (4)
19 — An old man with red hair may
be drunk. (6-3)
20— Midshipman job for a professor
which accommodates a lounger.
(4-5)
22 —Name of the archipelago between
Kyushu and Formosa. (6)
28 — Bowling approach when the
cricket score moves along to one.
(3-2)
29 — Next March and May. (5)
31—A noble look. (4)
34 —Perform the first note of a scale.
(2)
Solution to Crossword No. 302


jk:
-
XPI
IK
A)
0
>"SS
Si-
r - ■
MS
>**~ ...-
*****
*f)y*,
******
TWJWwr
99
44
Tracks Put the Jet Aloft
Down in the shimmering distance at the end of the strip, the
small silver object began to move away from the background
of drab green scrub. We stood in the pleasantly warm autumn
sunlight and watched. The scream of the jet turbine intensified
and suddenly the C.O. said, “He should be airborne . . . now.”
And then you could see daylight under the fuselage, the
wheels rose sideways and up, gravely tucking themselves
neatly away, and the Vampire screamed past, low overhead . . .
a hurtling, winged silver rocket.
Down into the blue it went, straight as an arrow. The whistling
roar diminished, then abruptly changed its note and the jet
swept suddenly up, climbing fast, and banked swallow-swift to
the right.
“Here’s another,” the photographer said. Heads turned again
to watch the next Vampire move into its crescendo of scream-
ing, and flash overhead, the flat underbelly only feet, it seemed,
above our small group. “Watch this one coming in!” called
the C.O. “It’s a dual trainer.” Heads swivelled to see the
pupil pilot and his instructor touch down and rush past in a
mad banshee wail. The trainer sped down the strip, the sound
trailing off abruptly to a mere frenzied whisper.
In swift succession more Vampires rushed down the strip and
rocketed themselves into the air. Rhythmic waves surged and
receded like the sound of a million fiddlers deliriously
bowing the “Ride of the Valkyries.” Then the last was gone.
Far above in the blue sky they darted and circled and we
watched for a while, listening to the sinister whistling of the
distant turbines.
Behind us we became aware of another sound; the deep, bass
throb of diesel engines ... a familiar noise that had been
there all the time ... a low, powerful background to the
dramatic, higher-pitched scream of the aircraft.
The three big yellow machines were lumbering calmly about
their business, the operators indifferent through long
familiarity to the flashing jets as they carried on with the job
of grading the shoulders of the airstrip they had helped to
build.
* * *
At Williamtown RAAF Station, ten miles out of Newcastle, New
South Wales, jet pilots are being trained by veterans from Korea.
There, too, is operating the School of Land-Air Warfare, giving
vital training to officers of the Navy, Army and Air Force and to
paratroop personnel.
Williamtown is an ideal site for an RAAF Station. Flat, level,
surrounded mainly by low scrub, it’s dominated by the 10,000 feet
long airstrip—biggest in Australia and capable of handling air-
craft with an all-up weight of 300,000 lbs., the largest type in
production.
Credit for the magnificent remodelling job—still going on —is due
to No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron, a veteran unit with a
splendid record. The unit’s chief equipment is a team of thirty
giant machines: Caterpillar Motor Graders and Caterpillar track-
type tractors. The big yellow machines have pushed, graded and
bulldozed the Tomago sands terrain into the shape of an airfield.
Already they’ve moved one million-and-a-half yards of earth on
this £2,500,000 project. Their powerful diesel engines and sure-
footed steel tracks have made the job of handling the ponderous
40-ton compactors easy.
Doing the job for the squadron are veteran Caterpillar machines,
an astonishingly high proportion of them with distinguished war
records in the Pacific theatre and in Japan. They’re still on the
job, working day in, dqy out, still capable of giving many more
hours of honourable service in the construction of Australia s
strategic airfields.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.; HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.; WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.. ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED. LAE.
