

THE HOUSE
IKK
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE INDO-CHINA SITUATION
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3876
Wednesday, May 26, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
VENUE OF EDINBURGH’S FAMOUS FESTIVAL, THE USHER HALL
THE Usher Hal! in Edinburgh is the scene each year of the opening concert
of the world-famous International Festival of Music and Drama. This
great annual event, which takes place at the end of August and beginning of
September for three weeks, gathers together the finest talent available in the
world and each year the Festival attracts over 100,000 people to the Scottish
capital.
Since it was first conceived and planned in the immediate post-war period,
Edinburgh’s Festival has always placed the greatest emphasis on its inter-
national character. It is presented by the Edinburgh Festival Society in
association with the Arts Council of Great Britain, the British Council and
the Corporation of the City of Edinburgh. The Society was inaugurated in
1946 and its chief aims are to provide programmes of the highest artistic
merit and to foster a fuller appreciation of the beauty of music and dramatic
art.
During the three weeks of the Festival there are approximately 150
performances and the programme consists of opera, drama, symphony concerts,
chamber music, recitals, choral concerts and ballet.
Forming part of the Festival of Music and Drama is the Edinburgh
Film Festival which is the centre of world interest in realist, documentary
and experimental films. Feature and short films from more than thirty
countries attract large audiences of film enthusiasts as Edinburgh is n P w
internationally accepted as the shop window of the little film which has
something new to say. Many of the programmes include a number of world
premieres.
The international galaxy of talent at Edinburgh does not imply, however,
that Britain’s own art and talent takes a subordinate place. In 195- the
opening concert in the white and gold Usher Hall was provided by the
Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under its conductor. Sir Thomas Beecham.
The long, representative and impressive list has included the Sadlers Wells
Ballet, the Glyndeboume Opera Company, the Old Vic. Company, Benjamin
Britten’s new operas, and the Scottish National Orchestra, to mention but a
few.
Highland Games at Murrayfield, displays by massed military and pipe
bands and the spectacular Military Tattoo on the floodlit castle esplanade
are other features of the Edinburgh Festival which have contributed to the
success of this great annual event in Scotland’s capital city.


The Red Page
ELIOT'S NEW PLAY
Gerard Manley Hopkins once singled
out, as one of the things that make poetry,
“All trades, their gear, tackle and trim”;
and when a writer is trying, as is T. S.
Eliot in The Confidential Clerk (Faber),
to write poetry about contemporary life,
it does seem possible that all trades, their
gear, tackle and trim and, especially, their
language, could be used with good effect.
Anybody who is speaking enthusiastic-
ally about his own trade would use the
rich, active, vital words necessarily asso-
ciated with it: not only the farmer, whose
cows and ploughs have formed the
language of country poetry for centuries;
not only the sailor who has been so
useful to Masefield, and the factory-
workers whose language of dynamos,
pylons, nuts and bolts so enraptured Day
Lewis and the school of the ’thirties;
but even, one suspects, the doctor talking
heartily of the tibia, the larynx, com-
pound-fractures and measles, the lawyer
with his mortgages, the businessman with
his interim divs. and invaluable prefs. and
ords. In some of the plays of Christopher
Fry there has been this sort of renewal
of the poetic vocabulary.
But where the conversation is restricted,
as it largely is in The Confidential Clerk
—and as to a slightly lesser extent it was
in The Family Reunion and The Cocktail
Party —to the kind of chit-chat that passes
at afternoon-tea, a language without any
of the significance of activity, as far
removed from any vital contact with the
earth as a currant-bun is removed from
a field of wheat, it just does not seem
possible to achieve poetry. One might
accept perhaps, since even lunch is a
vital subject. Lady Mulhammer announc-
ing offstage:
No, Gertrude. I haven’t had any lunch,
And I don’t want it now. Just bring me
some tea.
Nothing with it. No, I forgot:
You haven’t learned yet how to make tea
properly.
A cup of black coffee. Is Sir Claude at
home?
I’ll speak to him first.
But Lady Mulhammer, in those few
speeches offstage, “not intended to be
heard by the audience” (which is a pity),
has a richer language than anyone else
in The Confidential Clerk, and for the
most part the dialogue is as thin as this
speech of her husband’s. Sir Claude ti-
lt’s just in ways like this, Elizabeth,
That Colby can be of greater help than
Eggerson.
I couldn’t have asked Eggerson to write a
speech for me.
Oh, by the way, Colby, how’s the piano?
One has every sympathy for Mr. Eliot’s
attempt to bring the poetic drama off its
high horse and down to the life of the
people again—something of the kind must
be done with it—but it seems clear from
this play that his method will not work.
He seems, like Massinger in that divert-
ing comedy A New Way to Pay Old
Debts, to be trying to say in verse what
would be much better said in prose. He
can be mildly amusing but has not the
wit to carry the thing off with the dash
and polish of Moliere. He can get rhythm
into his dialogue and the thin patter of
his iambics falls pleasantly upon the ear ;
but rhythm without language is not
enough. And indeed, except for a few
lines here and there when Mr. Eliot’s
familiar personal intonation is heard
through the chatter of his characters:
And yet from time to time, when I least
expect it,
When my mind is cleared and empty, walk-
ing in the street
Or waking in the night, then the former
person,
The person I used to be, returns to take
possession:
And I am again the disappointed organist. . .
there seems to the present reviewer noth-
ing worth calling poetry in the entire
play. Nor is there any redeeming “total
effect” of poetry through humor or
passion.
Is The Confidential Clerk, then, if not
poetry, at least, like A New Way to Pay
Old Debts, a good play? It is about a
musician named Colby whom, because
he is his illegitimate son. Sir Claude
Mulhammer engages as his confidential
clerk in the hope that Lady Mulhammer
will become fond of him so that he can
be acknowledged.
An incestuous situation appears to be
developing when we learn that Lucasta,
a girl with whom Colby falls in love, is
Sir Claude’s illegitimate daughter; but
this situation dissolves without drama and
Lucasta returns to her fiance, Barnabas
Kaghan.
Now, Lady Mulhammer, it appears, has
also fallen from grace in her youth and is
the mother of an illegitimate son, long
lost to her because she has forgotten the
name of the foster-mother with whom
her lover (run over by a rhinoceros in
Tanganyika) deposited the infant.
Lady Mulhammer decides thaf Colby
is not her husband’s illegitimate son but
her own. Mrs. Guzzard, the foster-
mother, turns up conveniently to solve
this problem and declares that Sir Claude’s
child died and she misled him into
thinking that Colby was his son. Colby
is really her own son, by the late Mr.
Guzzard. Barnabas Kaghan (very much
disliked by Lady Mulhammer) is Lady
Mulhammer’s long-lost baby.
All this seems to the present reviewer
neither funny nor profound, but gently
silly. With no continuing dramatic theme,
it is the kind of ad hoc writing in which
you could go on inventing one surprise
after another without ever really arriving
anywhere; and it would not matter in the
end if the entire cast turned out to have
been the illegitimate offspring of the
rhinoceros that ran over Lucasta’s lover.
If it is an allegory or a modernised ver-
sion of something from the classics its
significance eludes the reader and so must
elude the audience in a theatre.
It would, of course, be pleasing to be
wrong about this play: Mr. Eliot is a
wily poet, and one has the greatest
admiration for both his lyrical poetry and
Murder in the Cathedral. But admirable
poets have Written very poor plays before
this; and if The Confidential Clerk is a
better play than, say, Otho the Great, the
point will take a great deal of proving.
D. S.
Man Versus Virus
One doesn’t need to know anything
about viruses to see that in Viruses and
Man Dr. F. M. Burnet, director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne, has made an important contribu-
tion to our knowledge, as well as to the
series of science-books published in the
Pelican editions.
Viruses, he says, are the smallest living
organisms yet discovered, and even a
bacterium can be the unwilling host for
millions of them, yet there is no reason
for believing that more refined methods
of detection might not reveal still smaller
viruses living on the big ones, and so on
and on, ad infinitum. As viruses need
living material on which to batten,
whereas bacteria can thrive on inorganic
matter, it isn’t impossible to imagine an
invisible war of the nations going on
beneath the one on the surface in which
the victor could be a virus of inconceiv-
ably small dimensions.
This might explain the strange ups and
downs throughout the ages of the various
diseases attributed to virus invasion of
living tissue, like herpes simplex, polio-
myelitis, influenza, the common cold and
German measles. Thousands of European
children must have been born blind be-
cause their mothers had had that mild
complaint German measles before the
Australian eye-specialist, Dr. Gregg, saw
the connection between the two manifes-
tations.
When t|je present writer was a boy
influenza was a poor excuse for staying
away from school, but between 1918
and 1929 the virus killed 25,000,000
people and in India wiped out the whole
population-increase in a single decade.
According to Dr. Burnet, herpes of the
lips has been a minor nuisance to the
human race throughout its history; he
has found a reference to it in Shakspeare,
when Mercufio curses Queen Mab for
plaguing lovely ladies’ lips with blisters.
If the herpes virus suddenly became as
virulent as some of the other diseases
connected with the erogenous centres,
kissing would go out of fashion. Dr.
Burnet, however, does not find this so
immediately important. He says :
At this point we reach a characteristic
dilemma of the 20th century. Every aspect
of virus disease justifies full investigation.
From such investigations we may hope for
improved methods of preventing and curing
disease, but equally the fuller our knowledge
becomes the greater the threat of the use of
the same knowledge for the deliberate dis-
semination of disease in war or in some
other phase of the incessant struggle for
power among men. We cannot refuse to
face the position that we have just entered
a phase of extraordinarily effective biological
research, an era that may be as productive
as the golden age of atomic research, that
reached a provisional climax in Hiroshima
and Nagasaki.
Laboratory research, he says, is at least
as potent to produce new evils as to
counter existent ones, and the greatest
recent practical application of enzyme
chemistry has been not in the treatment
of disease but in the synthesis of one
group of specific enzyme poisons—e.g.,
nerve gases. They could be just as good
a way for man to wipe himself off his
own planet as the H-bomb.
So Dr. Burnet feels the virologist is at
;he same crossroads as the nuclear
physicist. We know what happened to
he nuclear physicist; he was con-
scripted to Governmental uses. Would
not the virologist be similarly con-
scripted? If he refused he would be a
traitor to his country, and nobody likes
to be a traitor. Leonardo da Vinci was
faced with the same dilemma when he
designed a submarine capable of sinking
the largest vessels. He decided it was
too dangerous a weapon to put into the
hands of such a barbarian as man, so he
burned his plans; but a virologist could
hardly burn the results of his researches,
especially as those results might spell
the death of smallpox or yellow fever.
The only solution Dr. Burnet can see
is to understand, and by understanding
seek to control those biological urges
which becomes evident in the way men
view themselves in relation to other men.
Human behavior is as much a subject for
scientific study as influenza and yellow
fever, and sooner or later an adequate
understanding of the processes by which
one man dominates another will emerge.
Most virologists are scientists who
sometimes think: Dr. Burnet is evidently
a thinker who sometimes scientises, and
there could be no reasonable objection
to the argument he uses ; the only diffi-
culty is to apply it. Jesus had more than
an adequate understanding of the pro-
cesses by which one man dominates
another, and the principles he enunciated
are recited in 10,000 churches, but what
about the practice? He said “He that
lives by the sword shall perish by the
sword.” The nations have tried to prove
Him wrong for 2000 years and haven’t
yet succeeded; but they still go on try-
ing. And now Dr. Burnet warns us that
man may perish by a mightier than the
sword—an unfilterable virus.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Spooks in the Highlands
Neil M. Gunn’s latest novel, The
Other Landscape (Faber), deals with a
situation which Algernon Blackwood
might well have chosen, and which, in
his hands, would no doubt have been
made convincing and even persuasive.
Mr. Gunn lacks the gift of presenting
occult occurrences and theories either in-
terestingly or—except, perhaps, to those
readers who already believe in malign
“influences” and spirit “manifestations”
—believably.
The basic story is simple and, as the
first-person narrator several times re-
marks, essentially melodramatic. Douglas
Menzies, a promising young musical com-
poser, after successfully writing the musi-
cal score for a film dealing with ship-
wreck, retires with his lovely and lovable
wife to a remote village in the Scottish
Highlands, the wife, Annabel, having
had a physical and nervous illness in
London.
In Scotland, Menzies reaches a dead-
lock as far as musical composition is
concerned, but, at Annabel’s suggestion,
sets out to write in prose of the wild sea-
music themes which still obsess him. He
is haunted by the mystical idea of the
“Wrecker” —sees visions of disaster from
a cliff-top, finishes his prophetic manu-
script and, on the stormy eve of its com-
pletion, is called to assist in an unsuccess-
ful rescue of a ship’s crew from a
foundered vessel. He returns home to
find his wife in premature childbirth;
medical help, delayed by the storm,
arrives too late, and she and the baby die.
The manuscript is sent in rather mys-
terious circumstances to a London editor,
and the novel opens with one of his
friends, the narrator, visiting the village
to interview the author. What most would
expect him to find there would probably
be a grief-stricken man living only with
a large dog for company and drinking
himself to death. But the Scottish narra-
tor himself, the highland villagers and a
choleric English major staying at the
hotel are all, in various degrees, fey, or
psychic, or willing to be convinced, and
when tragedy takes Menzies off to join
his wife in “the other landscape” she
inhabits they see it as part of a curiously
esoteric plan.
When the author is not bogged-down in
attempts to explain phenomena which are
inexplicable only by his own contrivance
he writes extremely wellsome passages
delineating landscape are quite memor-
able, for he finds apt and careful images
for description, while, at times, he invents
—and too often almost smothers—some
tantalisingly humorous situations.
New View of Oxford
Anyone who has wondered what an
Oxford don is can be informed at length
from Oxford Triumphant by Norman
Longmate (Phoenix House); there are
some 720 of them to some 7200 under-
graduates ; their lectures, he says, are a
waste of time, and as tutors most of
them are hopeless:
Those who can, do; those who can’t
teach become Oxford dons.
One is just getting the feeling, in his
first chapter, that Oxford is over, when
he comes to his astonishing conclusion:
It remains the most complete and perfect
educational instrument, both of intellect
and character, in the world; it remains
“Oxford Triumphant.”
Well, Mr. Longmate is not yet thirty;
he is a war-veteran, and did a postponed
course in history after the war at Oxford.
The poor fellow “intends to make journal-
ism his career, ultimately aiming to be a
Labor candidate.” This explains his point
of view, and from this standpoint he
gives a clear picture of the University to
those who know nothing about it: its
means of entrance, work, dons, games,
social life, rowdies, attitude to sex,
religion, politics, journals, plays, etc.
Oxford, he says, is no longer a rich
man’s playground. It costs the Govern-
ment £1,000,000 a year over its own
endowments. In addition, Education
Department money makes it easy for poor
young men to go there. Few undergradu-
ates can afford the wild parties of former
days, though there is still a sharp dividing-
line between athletes and aesthetes.
/Esthetes are not so often beaten-up by
athletes, but the athletes are still respon-
sible for deplorable rowdyism after
bump-night dinners: once they piled a
rowing-eight on a fire on a college lawn,
and were restrained only by a hair’s-
breadth from throwing the President of
the College on the fire with it; athletes
are still the main protagonists of “sconc-
ing”—making a man drink four pints of
beer at one elbow-lift for infringing some
dinner-table rule.
The chapter on sex is extremely frank,
but full of hope; that on the
debates in the Union explains a
great deal that journalistic reports
of their wilder moments have
left out; and there is a good
survey of novels and detective-novels set
in Oxford -Max Beerbohm’s Zuleika
Dobson he thinks the only one that
should survive; of Evelyn Waugh’s
Brides head Revisited he is not approving.
Of 7207 students in residence during
one term of 1951, 5458 were receiving
some form of financial assistance; the
average income of undergraduates is
£336, and when they have paid their
various dues, subscriptions, board and
lodging, tips, etc., they have “only a little
over £lOO to support themselves for
twenty-eight weeks of the year when they
are not at the University.” And whaffor?
For the poor man an Oxford degree,
unless he elects to teach, is of little material
value. Without private means, the law and
other professions are virtually closed to
him.... What. then becomes of Arts gradu-
ates when they leave the University? For
many there is an extremely painful awaken-
ing; salaries of as little as £350 a year are
quite common—there was, I recollect, fierce
competition as early as 1950 for a post
on a provincial newspaper starting at less
than £7 a week. ...Most men count them-
selves lucky to find any post at all.
Well, says the author, Oxford teaches
its graduates to suspect people who con-
centrate their lives on making money;
and this should be a most comforting
lesson to them ; and he makes it quite
clear that he himself wouldn’t have
missed his three years there for anything.
But this would not stop him returning,
like Coriolanus, at the head of a Royal
Commission. Mow far would he go?
He sounds a retreat at the end of every
fiery chapter.
The Weir: Jane Gillespie (Peter
Davies). This novel is a period-piece
(1895, with Dickensian characters)
about Ursula Morrey, an overgrown
problem-adolescent cursed with incredibly
stupid parents ; and Martin, a six-year-
old orphan as off-normal as she.
THE BRANDING FIRE
The dust, the smoke and the yellow fire on
The red plain heating the branding-iron,
As though the sun’s long white-hot blast
Had struck the stones to flame at last'.
And where the stockmen bronze and hard
Roll their smokes in the high stockyard
And watch that wild young bull break
loose,
Defiant from the calves and cows.
And bellowing with rage and pain
Run mad across the vast hot plain
With tail out stiff and tossing horns.
Pawing the stones up when he turns
To meet the blackboy cantering after,
Like smouldering coals I hear their
laughter;
Like man’s own will I see that fire,
Who stamps the stones with his desire,
Who herds his beasts and burns his brand
Like red-hot iron on this red land.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART


mm
I i i
:
1
1
1
'3 I v* i
• ■ c;
1111 a
■ n
■
i
i s
m
it
■
>»:»;* &m
fj.4
WSm
/
>5
/ wa
-, Mi
■-’■ :; IM
&
iilllli
H
■s
,
:^..
i
-
mm ■!
,|: i
ill
Hi
' HI
wWI I
ippMWMfci
-•• . . . •• :
w
■
?f ; :
Be sure to choose your trimming
and pruning implements from
Our gardening dept.
Anthony Horderns’ have one of the finest Gardening Centres in the world
.... and as we can’t describe all our enormous garden range, we invite
you to visit our; Fourth Floor and see for yourself the latest in gardening equipment.
(Illustrated) “Qualcast” Motor Mower priced at £9O complete.
n
VJ
a
HP
n
I
mat
sssssss^
ram
■1
m
■
STORE OPENS 8.30 A.M. DAILY
Every morning, Monday to Saturday inclusive, Anthony Horderns opens at half past
eight. This change in Store opening hours has been made for those people who start
business at 9 a.m. or later, can shop at 8.30 and thus save valuable lunch-hour time.
1. Rubber Tyred Wheel
Barrow. These Barrows are
strongly constructed and fea-
ture a pipe frame and a gal-
vanized tray. Priced, £6/8/3
each.
2. “Hartson” Lawn Sweepers.
Just the thing for sweeping up
leaves and debris. This useful
machine can also be used as a
lawn conditioner. Detachable
bag. Priced, £lB/18/-.
3. French Pruning Secateurs.
These strong secateurs aye of
the finest quality and are ideal
for heavy work. Priced at
only 11/- pr.
•
4. Tyzacks English Scythe
Blades. These blades have a
riveted back and.an unbreak-
able point. Size 24in. 2L/6;
30in., 17/6; 36in., at 19/6 ea.
Canadian Scythe Handles at
34/9 each.
Sturdy 6ft. Step Ladders.
These handy ladders are
strongly constructed from
local timber and are priced
at only 42/6 each.
Pole Type Tree Pruners.
High quality tree pruners
in sizes Bft., 23/6; I Oft.,
24/9; and 12ft., is priced
at 25/9 each.
Quality Code Lopping
hears. Ideal for heavy
cork these shears are well
lade and are priced at
nly 55/6 each.
Carborundum Scythe
itones. These scythe atones
:ome in two shapes—round
f/6 ea.; oval 5/3 ea.
H TRUTH IN ADVERTtStMG"
fltihonj Hariem*
liss
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 26, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3876
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE REAL ISSUES
A few days will tell the world whether the majority
of Australians are still able to appreciate services
honestly and skilfully rendered or whether they are
gullible and greedy, ready to fall for the most flagrant
■of confidence-tricks.
Those who have known the country for long
will have little doubt about the answer. The Com-
monwealth is industrially peaceful, developing and
populating at an unprecedented rate. Its main prob-
lems are its State-controlled enterprises and its
Socialistic 40-hour week. It is being offered by
the Menzies Government a sober programme of pro-
gression under which gains aro. to be consolidated,
works to be expanded, together with tax-reduction,
pension-increases, better facilities for acquiring homes
and other normal benefits and improvements.
By “Labor” it is feeing offered a sort of jumble-
sale assortment of temptations, wildly conceived,
invented with complete unconcern as to whether they
can be paid for. Some “Labor” candidates themselves
are mute about them and some openly critical, like
young Mr. Bourke.
And it is impossible to believe that voters will
not sense the important fact about the issues. It is that,
while Dr. Evatt and his Shadow Cabinet are doing the
promising, Mr. Cahill and the union supporters are
giving the demonstration.
It is worth while to put the acid-test on some of
their actions. Two lend themselves handsomely to
proving the kind of Government that can be expected
from the Federal A.L.P. and the leadership it derives
from the candidates endorsed by the N, S,
A.L.P., of which the Cahill Government is the
approved State agent and the A.L.P. Conference the
voice.
On May 16 the “Sun-Herald” in Sydney made
the statement that it had “investigated allegations of
brutal assault by police when questioning a man at
Inverell.” The “Sun-Herald” wrote;
If these allegations are true, Mr. Delaney Is not
only unlit to be Commissioner of Police, but also unfit
to be a member of the police force—and so are all
the police concerned.
Yet there has been no denial from the police, and
Mr. Cahill, the Premier and head of the Police De-
partment, .the official leader of the same “Labor”
party in the State House that endorses Dr. Evatt and
followers, has flatly refused to hold an inquiry. He
said bluntly that the call for one was a “planned
campaign to draw attention from the Federal elec-
tions,” which “it is now evident ‘Labor’ will win
comfortably.”
In plain fact, the whole matter is a very vital
issue in the Federal campaign from which Dr. Evatt,
as a representative of N. S. Wales, cannot escape. The
fact that he is prepared to stand on the endorsement
of the same A.L.P, which has tolerated the Doyle
and Arthur affairs and which refuses to regard such
allegations as those of the Inverell case as serious,
which has failed to clean up the liquor business, which
would not inquire into admissions of police bribery
at “Tommo’s” two-up school, and whose State Govern-
ment has a name that smells to high Heaven is enough,
without anything else, to rule out “Labor” as a possible
holder of the Government after May 29.
A second matter which is worth consideration
is the Communist issue. Dr, Evatt claimed in
a speech at Brisbane on May 19 that “ ‘Labor’
detests the tyranny of Communism on the Left
and will fight against it all the -time... .It has
always fought it. Day in and day out it has fought it
in the trade-unions.” Yet Dr. Evatt, when he became a
Minister, chose as his private secretary the honorary
secretary of a fellow-traveller organisation, his Gov-
ernment chose as a Trade-union Advisory Panel
thirteen men of whom seven were members of the
Central Committee of the Communist Party, It chose
Garden as its liaison man with the unions. It chose
as its Director of Post-war Reconstruction Dr. Lloyd
Ross, fresh out of the Central Committee. And it found
paid jobs for Healy, Roach and others in the Maritime
Industries Commissions. It kept a convicted Com-
munist spy employed in the C.5.1.R.0. It also
accepted as members of the A.L.PI conferences unions
which while subscribing to A.L.P. funds were at the
same time subscribing to Communist funds and whose
heads were sitting in Communist-party offices.
Th g Sydney Waterside Workers, under the
bludgeon of their Communist leaders, last week decided
to subscribe £6500 to political funds by a compulsory
levy. An official told the daily Press that the Federal
Executive of the union would decide how much would
go to the Communist party and how much to “Labor.”
The money is a legal levy. It does not matter that a
member may be also a member of a Liberal-party
branch; he is to be forced by this domineering union
to subscribe to the funds of the Cahill-Evatt “Labor”
party which he is fighting against. And there is no pro-
test about this totalitarianism from Dr. Evatt, or Mr.
Cal well, or Mr. Cahill, because at heart they are
totalitarians themselves.
While pretending to hate Communism they are
prepared to run regularly in double-harness with it
and to advocate the principles of Communism, like
those applied by Healy and his commissars.
, J . The Watersides, despite the fact that all their
leading officials are high officials of the Communist
party, send delegates regularly to the A.L.P.
Conferences in N. S. Wales and help to make
Labor’s” policy. On page five (June 21, 1946, issue)
of the “Standard,” describing itself as the “official
organ of the ‘ Labor” party, it was recorded at the
A.L.P. conference that year the soldier-rehabilitation
plan adopted by the conference was “moved by Mr.
J. Hooke,” who in 1944 had moved that the Com-
munist party be allowed to affiliate with the A.L.P.,
and seconded by “Mr. J. Healy (Waterside Workers).”
At the 1950 conference, when “Labor” was pleading
that it was not interested in the Communist party but
only in the right of freedom of individuals, the Water-
siders, the Federated Ironworkers, the Ship Painters
and Dpckers and others all Communist-controlled
were members.
Probity, good administration—especially of the
law and police—and loyalty are the bases on which
stable nations and honest government are built. Both
as to loyalty and administration and as to concern
for the good repute of the Government and public
service, the State A.L.P., from which “Labor’s” leader-
ship draws its endorsement, does not seem to care a
Doyle promissory-note.
The Cahill-Evatt Alliance
Asked to inquire into allegations that a man was
bashed by police at Inverell in 1948 and was subse-
quently paid £250 to withdraw charges of assault —
Police-Commissioner Delaney, then an inspector at
Tamworth, being allegedly connected with the negotia-
tions for the payment—Premier Cahill refused an
inquiry, saying that his Government “had no intention
of abdicating in favor of the Sydney Press.”
There is nothing surprising about this. The auto-
matic response of Mr. Cahill to requests for an inquiry
into anything at all is to howl out in a loud voice
“Smear canipaign,” and to suggest that the motive is
to rob his party of an election victory. This was the
attitude he adopted at the beginning of last year when
the name of his Mines Minister Arthur was first
linked with that of the criminal Doyle. He spoke of
Press “allegations and innuendos,” said he was “very
proud of the fact that no breath of scandal had ever
touched any member of his Government,” and when
Opposition-leader Treatt asked questions which the
royal commission later found to be quite justified, he
sneered that “apparently he has run out of political
ammunition.” Even after he had announced that a
royal commission would be appointed he could not
refrain from talking of Treatt’s “political scavengers”
and of Press smears.
“Labor’s” Federal leader is another who is
addicted to shouting “I’ve bin smeared” every time
a paper or a political opponent criticises him. When
Treasurer Fadden fired at him a batch of questions
concerning his past dealings with Communists he
didn’t answer the questions, but described them as
abuse and darkly warned newspapers that in printing
what Fadden had said they were quoting something
“not protected by privilege.” To ask Evatt whether
it is a fact that he defended Communists in the High
Court and led his party in a campaign against the
anti-Red referendum is to “smear” him. Even to say
that his financial programme spells inflation is to
“smear” him. In fact, if what he and Cahill say is
true, the two of them have been so smeared with
printer’s-ink that they must be blacker than any
printer’s-devil ever aspired to be.
It may be that they are mistaken and that what
they take for smear is really only the visible evidence
that they are both tarred with the same
brush. At any rate, both subscribe to the same plat-
form arid objective, both sign the same pledge and
both take their orders from the same executive. Most
of the time they preach the same gospel, though on
occasions there may be slight differences in interpreta-
tion. Once or twice last year Cahill, with an election
behind him, acted with an enthusiasm that was
embarrassing to Evatt, with his election still to be
fought—but it was 'dear that the differences were
merely in timing and not in essential beliefs.
When “Labor” lost the Gwydir by-election last
December Dr. Evatt complained that his opponents
had capitalised current dissatisfaction with State
legislation—he was referring to compulsory unionism
and the Press-gag Act. Typically, the Doc. was want-
ing to have it both ways; earlier in the year he had
stumped N. S. Wales in the State election campaign
whipping-up hysteria against Liberal-Country-party
candidates on the specious grounds that the Federal
Government had caused widespread unemployment
and was responsible for inflation. Unfortunately a
large number of people believed him, and Cahill, who
on his record should have been dismissed without a
reference, came back with a big majority.
As Evatt then thought it worth while paying a
tribute to the “wise and vigorous leadership of Mr.
Cahill,” there can be no harm in surveying briefly the
chief events of that leadership. It began in the tradi-
tional “Labor” style of awarding spoils to the victors
—Admiral McGrrrrr went to the Maritime Services
Board, Tsar Ferguson to the Milk Board, and Darling-
hurst Finnan, defeated in Albury, to the Hunter River
Water Authority. Will it continue, after the Federal
election, with the elevation of Evatt’s rejected brother
Clive to the N. S. Wales Supreme Court?
The wisdom of Cahill’s leadership has been
mostly demonstrated in his willingness to knuckle
under to union domination and to do what the Trades
and Labor Council told him. There was the time
when Railways Commissioner Winsor —quite free of
Ministerial domination, according to Cahill —applied
to the Arbitration Court for a reduction in weekend
penalty-rates. The assistant-secretary of the Trades
and Labor Council promptly told the Press that he
had complained to the Minister for Transport, who
would, if necessary, “tell Mr. Winsor where he got
off.” Within a very short time the commissioner was
told to withdraw his application. The same procedure
was repeated over the abolition of quarterly adjust-
ments, but on that occasion when Mr. Winsor sought
to withdraw as instructed, the court refused to be
trifled with.
About the same time the N.S.W. police endeavored
to enforce the liquor laws at Broken Hill. Mr. Cahill
promptly ordered them to leave things as they were.
More recently the Shop Assistants’ union has
successfully resisted efforts to reintroduce Friday-night
shopping and has virtually ordered the Government to
do nothing about it. Even more blatant has been the
union influence on petrol-selling hours. After agree-
ing to adopt a recommendation from the Industrial
Court for round-the-cfock trading, Cabinet performed
a back-somersault when the unions concerned called
it to order.
Compulsory-unionism, introduced without warn-
ing by Cahill within a few months- of the 1953 election
at which he had not mentioned it, and now the subject
of a High Court appeal, had the expressed approval of
Dr. Evatt despite his oft-avowed belief in the Declara-
tion of Human Rights. It is also in the Federal plat-
form of the party.
Cahill’s local-government “reforms” are too recent
to need much repetition. Rushed through on the eve
of local-government elections and accompanied by
the Press-gag Act which was condemned not only
throughout Australia but also by the entire British
Press, including the Labor “Daily Herald,” their main
purpose was to tighten the grip of “Labor” on the
Sydney City Council and to stifle demands for an
inquiry into the Council’s operations. Their most
notable result was the election, for the first time, of
two Communist aldermen.
It is generally conceded that to win this election
“Labor” must gain some seats in N. S. Wales. If, with
these examples of Cahill’s “wise and vigorous leader-
ship” fresh in their memory, the people of that State
are willing to risk the “wise and vigorous leadership”
of Evatt, then they are gluttons for punishment.
Easy House-purchase
From London : It is a sign of the times that purchases
should be reckoned in terms of “so much” a week
rather than as “so much” cash down. The proportion
of TV sets paid for “on the nail” is small. Furniture-
stores have been forced to alter their display to cater
for “easy payments.” And tailors, who have difficulty
in selling suits because their customers, though not
without money, can’t find the ready cash, are devising
h.-p. terms.
There’s all the difference, of course, between
buying a house on mortgage and a TV set on the
never-never.” To anyone who, for example, was
brought up in the home of building-societies, where
financial conduct is both stern and simple, the one is
thrift and the other extravagance.
The Housing Minister’s extension to an Act of
1949 has been well received in all quarters and has
some excellent points. It cuts two ways, enabling the
man who earns £ll a week to buy his own house,
and it also is a practical means of reducing the huge
subsidy (including rates) of about £lOO million a
year. The co-operation between Government, local
authorities and building-societies is encouraging. And
the scheme is realistic and practical to a community
having the benefit of full employment and the pain of
high taxation. Moreover, the restriction to small
dwellings has sociological value in that it favors the
young married couple.
Under Scheme A an owner-occupier can get a
90 p.c. mortgage on any house valued at £2500 or
less ; or, under Scheme B, 95 p.c, of any house built
since 1918, up to a maximum of £2OOO. The rate of
interest is 4% p.c. over 25 years. Repayment is weekly
and includes rates and insurance. Thus for a cash
sum down of slightly more than £lOO (£5O, plus £6O
legal charges, etc.) a family can set up house on a
weekly payment of about £3.
When, as here, social theory comes to terms with
hard-headed business the mechanism of the scheme is
interesting to study. What, for,instance, has won over
the sagacious building - societies, whose normal
advances are 70-75 p.c. and who demand that the
borrower’s income be at least a third of the advance?
The answer is that the building-societies have
pulled off a very good bargain. The normal advance
is now (70 p.c. for Scheme A and 66| p.c. for Scheme
B). In effect, the taxpayer and the ratepayer guaran-
tee the balance on a reducing scale until the amount
outstanding is 60 p.c. and 50 p.c. respectively.
This means that there* will, in effect, be a con-
cealed subsidy to pay for defaults. But for two good
reasons the financial loss is unlikely to be heavy. The
advance will be based on whichever is lower of the
purchase-price or valuation. And the societies will
vet the borrower’s status with their usual thoroughness.


PICK A BOX!
MENZIES
GOVERNMENTS
KNOWN
ACHIEVEMENTS
LABORS
BOX OF
TRICKS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Menzies in Form
Complaints that the Prime Minister had
become too complacent over the Govern-
ment’s chances and was just coasting
along, letting Dr. Evatt keep the initiative,
were answered last Friday night when
Menzies addressed a meeting in the
Prahran (Vic.) Town Hall and got what
was described as the rowdiest reception
of his campaign. Throughout his election-
tour Menzies’s meetings have been un-
usually quiet; everywhere he has had
large audiences and has been well re-
ceived—the rowdy heckling of the last
campaign has been absent. This sort of
thing, although very gratifying to a
speaker, can be misleading, as it may en-
gender undue optimism. Evatt’s meetings
have also been well attended by enthusi-
astic audiences, and it is fairly obvious
that both leaders have been preaching
largely to the converted as far as their
direct audiences are concerned; there is,
of course, no clue to the composition of
their radio-audiences.
The Prahran meeting departed from
this pattern. Prahran is in the Fawkner
electorate, won for “Labor” by W, M.
Bourke in 1949 by the narrowest margin
of the election—27 in a poll of 41,211 —
and retained by 1240 three years ago.
Prahran has heard Menzies on previous
occasions, and it turned up in force to
hear him this time ; and it was clear from
the start that a considerable section of
the audience had no intention of voting
for the Liberal candidate, Peter Howson,
on Saturday. Probably that section left
the hall at the close of the meeting with
its voting intentions unchanged, but that
was a tribute to its loyalty to a party —
or to the name of a party —rather than to
its own sense of logic. At any rate, it had
the knowledge that it had heard Menzies
at his very best, and that in the field of
political oratory Australia has nothing
better to offer.
The P.M. said he was not in the posi-
tion of having to make excuses for his
party and its policy ; he was proud of its
record, “which hgd brought record pros-
perity.” As evidence of this he cited
Evatt’s policy-speech, maintaining that
“Labor” obviously believed the country
was enjoying record prosperity, other-
wise it would not dare to ask the economy
to stand the lavish programme proposed
by Evatt.
As usual, he turned all interjections to
his own advantage. Someone invoked the
name of Chifley. Replying that no one
who conscientiously believed in Chifley
“Labor” could possibly believe in Evatt
“Labor,” Menzies then detailed vital
poihts on which Bert’s policy diverged
from Ben’s.
But the best score of the evening came
when Menzies spoke of Evatt’s policy as
offering “something for nothing.” “Well,
what’s wrong with that?” asked some
innocent. “Brother,” replied Menzies in
an echo of Billy Hughes, “am I to be
told that at this stage of our development
there are still people who think the Gov-
ernment can give them something for
nothing? Don’t you know that before the
Government spends a pound the people
have to find that pound?”
The innocent didn’t reply, and he is
probably still going to vote “Labor” on
Saturday; but the simple truth of that
statement got the loudest applause of
the whole speech.
•
Last Days
The last days of the Federal election
campaign find the Liberal-C.P. coalition
confident. Some city electorates have
been influenced by “Labor’s” blandish-
ments and promises. But even in elec-
torates like Mr. E. J. Ward’s the “united
front” campaign of the Communist
party, which has been issuing leaflets
urging adherence to a ticket designed for
a “Labor” win, with a token vote for the
Red candidates, has not helped much.
In the States other than N. S. Wales,
and in the N. S. Wales country areas, the
vote seems to be solid except for the
enclaves in urban electorates where
“Labor” Governments have built housing
estates feverishly, in some cases with
obvious intent.
South Australia and the West both
show no drift to “Labor” that is obvious.
Speaker Archie Cameron (Barker), usually
a target, though $ tough one, was able
to report near the end that he had
scarcely faced an interjection.
The reports from Perth, Brisbane and
North Queensland all favor a Govern-
ment victory. The last-minute blast of
the Liberals on finance should have a
good effect, though it comes belatedly.
This was inevitable, since the Prime
Minister is rightly cautious and conceal-
ing about prospective Budget details for
the year and in forecasting financial
concessions.
However, within a month of the year’s
end it is possible to see much more
clearly than a few weeks ago how 1953-54
will assay and what new reductions in
taxation and in what fields the Govern-
ment will be able to give in 1954-55.
The outlook is promising. While Mr.
Menzies says that he will not join with
Dr. Evatt in “an auction-sale” for votes
he is now able to announce that, though
next year’s estimates have not even been
roughly made up, the Government will
“examine such items as income tax, sales
tax, excise and depreciation allowances:
in the light of higher replacement costs
and so on,” and will “go to the proper
and possible limit in making the selec-
tion” of reductions.
One In—All In
With Vietminh troops fast advancing on
the Red River delta and Hanoi, Moscow
has put forward a new agenda (which was
accepted by the West at the Geneva Con-
ference) for discussion on a proposed
cease-fire in Indo-China. But it took 4\
hours of vhot debate to get even this far,
and all that has been agreed on is that
the points to be discussed are a cease-fire,
zones in which forces on both sides should
be regrouped, measures to prevent 'mili-
tary reinforcement after the cease-fire,
armistice control and guarantees* against
its violation. British and French Minis-
ters afterwards went home to confer with
their Cabinets while fighting goes on
round the Red River delta, with the
troops up to their knees in summer mud.
The whole question of South-East
Asian defence alliance calls for settle-
ment early, but the British view
is that the right time is not during the
continuance of the Geneva conference.
Equally right is President Eisenhower’s
view that such an alliance without Britain
might be possible, although not so satis-
factory or broad as he might wish.
India is unlikely to join in such an
alliance at the present stage. New Zea-
land has already made its view clear —its
Minister for External Affairs has said
that he could not conceive a satisfactory
alliance which did not include Britain.
Australia’s hand is apparently being held
until after the elections, and that will be
time enough. But there need be no
doubt about the view that will be taken.
The defence question of all separate parts
of the British Commonwealth is the prob-
lem of the whole, including the United
. Kingdom, Canada and Australia and
N.Z., and nothing can alter this,
especially in view of the integration of
resources and defence forces which are
so closely knit that no section of the
British Commonwealth can go alone.
The sensible view of the matter is that
expressed at the Anzus conference by
Mr. Paul Hasluck, one of the most ex-
perienced of Australian diplomats—that
the defence problem of all the parts of the
British community of nations is not a
regional problem but a world problem.
Mr. Hasluck said that the Locarno
Treaty and Canadian reliance on the
United States seenied to be the chief
enemies to effective British Common-
wealth co-operation in defence before
1939:
Undoubtedly If Uabor had been in
office at that period in Australia it
would have added a similar regional
concentration in the Pacific and would
have pressed for the separation op the
Pacific Ocean from those parts of the
British Commonwealth • situated in
Europe.... Such regional pacts as Anzus
are methods, not aims. The, aim was
security itself; and considering the
British Commonwealth as a whole, its
needs are world-wide, not regional,
security, because it is a world-wide
Commonwealth facing a world-wide
threat.
Nothing short of a world arrangement
in the present crisis is any good, because
the menace to be faced is not merely the
Communist advance in South-East Asia
but the Communist advance in its plan
for world revolution. It profits nothing
if Indo-China is held and the Middle
East goes, or the United Kingdom goes,
because of weaknesses at crucial points
caused by the dividing of forces under
regional arrangements. i
Behind the present, division in the
Pacific Ocean is an American ambition
to keep it an'American sea with the
nations in it following the lead of Wash-
ington. The sooner Washington acts on
the clear basis that it is only a partner
in the Western world the sooner world
defence against Communism will become
unified and strong, and assembled at the
right places and not frittered away, as it
has been frittered away in Korea and
threatens to be wasted in Indo-China, if
haste and panic govern international
Western policy.
The United States policy is often a
policy of inexperience, as has been proved
again and again—in its failure to win
Japanese friendship through the Occu-
pation, in its failure in the framing of
the Yalta Agreement (which was born in
Washington), in its failure in its policy
towards China, and particularly in its
abysmal mistake of encouraging the
South-East Asian nations which were
under British and Dutch rule to break
away from their moorings at a time
when stability and unity' of policy were
most needed.
Australia should go very slowly in the
Indo-China affair.
Dr. Evatt and Margins -
“D.i.K.”: Dr. Evatt’s attempt to curry
favor with those directly involved in the
“margins” issue is pretty miserable. It
is not as though Dr. Evatt is a recent
graduate in law and knows little or noth-
ing about Constitutional matters. Yet Dr.
Evatt has indicated that, in the event of
“Labor” being returned, the margins issue
will be settled to everybody’s satisfaction.
Section 51 (placitum XXXV) of the
Commonwealth Constitution gives the
Federal Parliament power to legislate
with respect to “Conciliation and Arbi-
tration for the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes extending beyond
the limits of any one State.” This section
means (and it has cost a dozen ransoms
to find out its meaning) that while the
Parliament may set up tribunals to deal
with conciliation and arbitration, the
Parliament cannot directly legislate with
respect to wages and hours of work of
those engaged in industry.
Now when Dr. Evatt says that “Labor”
will fix the “margins” issue he is talking
nonsense, and he knows it. In November,
1942, as a prelude to his most notable
search for greater Commonwealth powers,
Dr, Evatt arranged a Constitutional con-
vention at Canberra. One of the proposals
he placed before the convention was that
the Federal Parliament should have power
to legislate with respect to “Employment
and Unemployment.” The State Parlia-
ments refused to cede to the Common-
wealth their powers on “Employment and
Unemployment,” and the people in 1944
at backed up the decision of
the State Parliaments. The record of events
does, however, place beyond all doubt the
fact that Dr. Evatt was quite aware that
the Federal Parliament could not legislate
on hours and wages. He wanted the
Parliament to have the power —that was
true enough—but he failed, and the
Federal Parliament still can’t determine
hours and wages.
There is only one possible way Dr.
Evatt could carry out his promise on
margins, and the method deserves a little
scrutiny by all those who care tuppence
for the Australian arbitration system.
In 1947 Dr. Evatt sponsored the creation
of conciliation commissioners. One of
the powers given to the commissioners
was that of determining margins in
industry. In his policy-speech Dr. Evatt
undertook to “restore the system so that
the decisions of the commissioner on
industrial commissions and margins shall
not be subject to appeal.”
Was Dr. Evatt presupposing that if he
abolished the right of appeal from con-
ciliation commissioners to the Full Arbi-
tration Court, the commissioners would
This is not a picture of Dr. Evatt with
his eyes on the Priministerial tart-shop.
It is a drawing by Ronald Searle from his
new book, “Down With Skool."
grant margins? And if they didn’t what
then? If he had to honor his election
pledge, then Dr. Evatt would have to
force the commissioners to grant margins.
And how could he force conciliation com-
missioners to grant margins? He cer-
tainly could not do it with any legislative
authority ; that is clear enough. His only
resort would be to repeal the section of
the 1947 Conciliation and Arbitration
Act appointing conciliation commis-
sioners for life, sack those who wouldn’t
do his bidding and then find new appoin-
tees who would toe the line. No political
leader would dare do that.
Dr. Evatt’s promise on margins is con-
sistent with the trend of irresponsibility
which runs right through “Labor’s”
policy, and it could only be implemented
by mischievous and totalitarian means.
[D. J. Killen, 64 Nicholson-street, Greenslopes,
Brisbane.]
Getting the Results
Eighteen months ago it is doubtful
whether even the most optimistic man on
the Government side would have given it
a chance of winning an election, but dur-
ing 1953 the situation changed so com-
pletely that six weeks ago “Labor’s” tail
was right down and public-opinion polls
were conceding the Government the vic-
tory. In the past few weeks doubts have
arisen, largely due to the difficulty of pre-
dicting accurately the effect of the Evatt
election-bribes.
The position of parties in the last Par-
liament was Government, 68 seats;
“Labor,” 53 ; so that to obtain a bare
majority, including the Speaker, “Labor”
requires to gain eight seats. At the week-
end the results of a Gallup-poll survey
conducted on May 15 indicated that the
percentage of Government supporters in
Liberal borderline seats in the metropoli-
tan areas was almost identical with the
figures for the 1951 election. This meant
that the net gain to “Labor” up to that
date as a result of Evatt’s policy-speech
was only one per cent. On that basis
“Labor” would have to improve its
figures considerably in the last two
weeks of the campaign to win on Satur-
day,
When the broadcasting of election
results begins on Saturday night seats to
be watched for signs of a trend against
the Government will be St. George, Law-
son, Mitchell and Robertson (N.S.W.);
Corio, Deakin, Higinbotham and Isaacs
(Vic.); Capricornia, Griffith and Moreton
(Q.); Sturt (S.A.), Swan (W.A.), Bass
(Tas.). In some of these seats, such as
Mitchell, Robertson and Moreton, the
Government majority was considerable in
1951, but there has been an abnormal
growth of population since then, making
predictions based on previous figures
rather difficult. In all cities the tendency
has been for a shift of population from
the inner suburbs to the outer. The Liberal
vote in the three electorates mentioned
may have suffered as a result of this,
though there should be a correspond-
ing drop in “Labor” figures for the infter
suburbs. “Labor” seats which could be
affected by this include Parkes, Kingsford-
Smith and East Sydney (N.S.W.); Fawkner
(Vic.) and Perth (W.A.). These seats
will all be in danger if there is any swing
back to the Government.- “Labor’s”
other narrowly-held seats are Barton,
Eden-Monaro and Hume (N.S.W.), Bal-
larat and Wannon (Vic.), Leichhardt (Q.).
A point to be remembered when listen-
ing to the election-figures is that in met-
ropolitan seats by the time the first few
thousand votes are known the man in
front at that stage is almost always the
ultimate winner; for country seats
“Labor” customarily goes to the front
early, but is overhauled as figures arrive
from outlying parts of the electorates.
Ihis election will most likely be won and
lost in the metropolitan seats.
If at 9.30 on Saturday night the Govern-
ment candidates are in the lead in the
first batch of seats mentioned above Dr.
Eyatt’s bid fcrr the Prime Ministership
will have failed.
Country Comment
A glance through some of the N.S.W.
country papers and the influential
“North - Queensland Register” reveals
crisp editorial opinions on the elections
and other national issues ; also interest-
ing points raised by contributors.
Politics, as such, do not seem to take
up a great deal of editorial space; but
there is.a continuous and refreshing em-
phasis on national development. Grafton
“E)aily Examiner,” for instance, in an
editorial headed “Dynamic Dreams,”
brings up the Clarence Scheme, and lists
a few “ifs”: “if the Government
approves” ; “if the money can be found” ;
“if . . .” The Tamworth “Northern Daily
Leader” wants to know when the Keepit
Dam will be finished, and—in another
leader—wants to know if Sydney’s colos-
sal replanning scheme is really necessary:
Why must hundreds of millions of public
money be poured into the County of Cum-
berland merely to relieve industrial
congestion in the City of Sydney, a place
deliberately built up to its present size try
Sydney-controlled Governments?
On the elections, the same paper de-
votes a leader to a critical examination of
((Continued on next page)


[For electoral matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
the “Labor” claim —perhaps “Labor’s”
most telling, if superficial, point—that the
Menzies Government has failed to “put
value back into the £.” Conclusion: That
the villains of the piece are the 40-hour
Veek and the basic-wage rise, over which
the Federal Government has no control;
that it has, nevertheless, done as well as
can be expected; and that Dr. Evatt,
with his plans for increasing national
expenditure, has a bit of a cheek raising
this point, anyway,
“The Daily Examiner” (Grafton), in
separate editorials, examines health and
other services (conclusion: the elector
knows when he is being bribed) and
national development as election issues.
The “Northern Daily Leader,” taking a
somewhat similar line, see.s the Snowy
project as an illustration, or symbol, of
what can be done:
The Snowy project gives our people the
best example they have ever seen of the
need for planning and carrying out national
development with the Commonwealth as the
directing power and the States as subsidiary
agencies. Leaving the great development
projects at the mercy of decrepit Old States
is undoubtedly a national disaster for
modern Australia.
Lismore “Northern Star” has much
on water-conservation, including a glow-
ing tribute to work done at Sydney Uni-
versity’s McGarvie Smith farm at Bad-
gery Creek. It sums up the election cam-
paign as a “battle between supporters of
stable administration on the one hand
and those pledged to support socialisa-
tion—with the aid of inflation —on the
other.”
Down the other end of the N.S.W.
coast, south, the “Bega District News”
gives local member Mr. Alan Fraser the
once-over:
In all fairness to him, this district,
although it did not see much of him in
three years, has always been able to rely on
him to put the local point of view in a
campaign for improved amenities in this
part of his electorate. . .
However, the “Socialism-rpade-pleas-
ant” and other aspects of his party’s
policy are less agreeable. That uncom-
fortable remark of Ben Chifley’s —“It is
no use attempting to fool the people with
promises on the abolition of the means-
test” —is quoted. The only thing wrong
with Mr. Fraser as a local member,
apparently, is his party.
There is not a great deal of editorial
comment in some of the smaller papers ;
editors, in many cases, being content to
run the cases (in speeches) put by both
candidates side-by-side. Several are in-
trigued by the personality of Mr. J. L
Cusack, independent candidate for the
A.C.T., who has the novel plan of flavor-
ing rabbits with goanna-oil, for export.
The “Western Stock and Station Jour-
nal” prints a letter from V. J. Dowling,
of Coonamble, who protests at the label-
ling of the “swinging-voter” as an intel-
lectual. Mr. Dowling sees him simply
as an unstable person without political
convictions. The major political issue,
in this writer’s' opinion, is, in a sense, a
non-party one: whether country centres
can evade the dominance of the cities.
But he sees “Labor” as the greater danger
to the countryman because it is “more
bureaucratically-minded”; however, he
says it is a fallacy to say that New States
would necessarily be non-Labor.
Anthony Kelly, of Bo'oligal, waiting in
the Hay “Riverine Grazier,” sees a
“Labor” victory as a gradual reduction
of this country to “the rule of the
industrial commissar.”
“North Queensland Register,” in an
editorial, sees Dr. Evatt as “over-reaching
himself” in promises to the electors. It
also raises a point not mentioned over-
much in the city Press;
The promise made by the Prime Minister
in his policy-speech that his Government, if
returned to office, would continue to fight
the Communist party perhaps drew more
enthusiasm than his promise to reduce taxa-
tion.
That’s just a glance, of course. But,
although a number of the smaller papers
abstained from editorial comment, there
was no straightout support for the
“Labor” party. And the emphasis on
national development runs right through
the country Press.
POLITICAL POINTS
Whoever was responsible for choosing
the strategic points in the Barton elector-
ate at which Evatt spoke last Saturday
morning must have had a red face when
he saw the “Sun” photo of the Ramsgate
meeting. The Doc., with mouth wide
open, was in full roar. Just over his
shoulder, on the window of a butcher’s
shop, was the notice, “FRESH TRIPE.”
• •
Towards the end of last year Menzies
told a Liberal-party conference that he
was approaching this election campaign
with “a high heart, a clear conscience
and a determination to see that the fin-
ances of the country do not fall into the
hands of people who have not two ideas
on financial policy to put together.” In
the past fortnight “Labor” politicians
have expressed quite a lot of ideas
on financial policy; Evatt, Calwell,
McKenna, Ward, Bourke and others have
given different versions. But Bob was
right on one point—they don’t seem to
be able to put them together.
• •
In disowning its Communist allies dur-
ing the election campaign the “Labor”
movement is acting on the principle of
not letting its Right-hand supporters know
what its Left-hand is doing.
• •
Evatt hasn’t explained how his ex-
pressed intention of issuing a directive to
the Commonwealth Bank is to be squared
up with the present set-up under which
the bank is free from political control.
Perhaps some remarks Eddie Ward made
in the Sydney Domain last December
might explain things :
Bank-nationalisation still remains the
policy of the Labor party, and I think you
will find, when the Labor party is returned,
we will set about correcting the lack of
powers, to allow us to implement the policy
of which you approve.
• •
Ward, seemingly under a vow of
silence in his own State this campaign
season, bobbed up in Queensland to com-
plain that Menzies “had mishandled the
Petrov case” and by making his announce-
ment prematurely had given persons en-
gaged in seditious activities six to 12
months’ notice. A few weeks ago Eddie
was saying that the car in which Mrs.
Petrov was taken from Canberra to
Mascot should have been intercepted on
the way. Now he thinks Menzies was
wrong in acting at all.
In the past Eddie’s main contribution
to any discussion on the Communist
menace has been to scoff at any sugges-
tions of espionage. He has had nothing
but abuse and contempt for the security
service, and his chief concern has been to
make allegations of phone-tapping.*
• •
Ever since the death of J. B. Chifley
Calwell has regarded himself as “the next
Labor Treasurer.” The Evatt Plan must
be giving him some serious second-
thoughts and it has probably damped the
enthusiasm of other would-be paymasters,
though McKenna’s airy handling of
Evatt’s rneirie millions suggests that he
would be willing to give it a burl. Per-
haps the best way out would be to leave
it to Bert —along with the Attorney-
Generalship, External Affairs, Housing
and Social Services.
• •
A cynical old hymn-parody used to run
“There’ll be pie in the sky when you'die.”
Under the Evatt Plan there’ll be pie while
you live —but you’ll have to reach up to
the sky to get it.
• •
What has become of “Labor’s” inten-
tion, expressed 18 months ago, of reim-
posing land tax? Has it been forgotten,
or is the party merely hoping the electors
in marginal country seats have forgotten?
• •
Annual report of the Commonwealth
Press Union comments that during the
year complaints of interference with the
freedom of the Press came from four
countries —India, Pakistan, Trinidad and
Australia. The last-named instance re-
ferred, of course, to Cahill’s Press Gag. At
the time this was unanimously condemned
by the British Press, even including papers
not usually harsh towards Socialist
Governments. “Manchester Guardian”
saw in the Act a sign that the Australian
“Labor” movement “has temporarily lost
its ability to march forward with any
sense of direction, and has thereby
developed ingrowing Tammany toenails.”
• •
Another comment in the “NeVs-
Chronicle” is worth repeating at this
time. It was made by A. J. Cummings:
A great many Australians believe, and
members of the Labor party fear, that this
Press Gag monstrosity will ruin Labor’s
chances at the Federal elections next year.
I hope it does.
“Labor’s” fear was very real at the
time and the party hopes the “monstro-
sity” has been forgotten. The people
responsible for Liberal-party publicity in
N. S. Wales do not seem to have done
much to jog the electors’ memory on this
matter. Perhaps they think it is irrelevant
in a Federal election. It is not irrelevant.
There is no distinction between Cahill-
Labor and Evatt-Labor. The Press Gag
has been used once as a weapon of
“Labor” Socialism ; it can be used again.
• •
The interim retail-price index —the
new index compiled by the Common-
wealth Statistician to supplement the C-
series index on which quarterly adjust-
ments were formerly made —keeps re-
markably close, to the old one, despite the
fact that it covers a much more compre-
"IT'S NOT THE UNIFORM THAT SMELLS-IT'S ME!"
[N. S. Wales Premier Cahill is also the Ministerial head of the Police Department.]
hensive regimen. In the six months since
the suspension of automatic wage-adjust-
ments, the C-series index increased from
102.7 to 102.9 and the interim from 102.4
to 102.7.
• •
Earle Page’s optimistic opponent for the
Cowper (N.S.W.) seat told Kyogle that if
elected he would support the New Eng-
land movement to the fullest extent and
that “Labor” would be “favorably dis-
posed” to the plan. He can’t have read
his party’s platform very carefully;
“Labor” advocates the abolition of the
existing States, not the creation of new
ones.
• •
Mrs. Petrov on the Mascot incident:
I was terrified. I thought they [the
crowd] were against me as well as Zarkov
and Karpinsky. I did not say anything to
anyone. ,1 did not ask to be rescued. If
I had been asked then whether I wanted to
stay in Australia, I would not have been
able to give an answer.
That should be a complete answer to
those political, Press and radio critics who
fulminated against the Government for
not “rescuing” Mrs. P. at Mascot,
By advertisements in the Brisbane Press
Eddie Ward was billed as “Labor’s Out-
standing Speaker.” There may be some-
thing in it; Bert seems to f have taken
lessons from him.
• •
• Morgan, “Labor” M.H.R. for Reid
(N.S.W.), crystal-gazing in the A.L.P.
“News Review,” predicts a landslide to
“Labor” next Saturday and says “It is
1929 all over again.” The analogy is
not a very happy one. Most “Labor”
men nowadays shudder at the thought of
that 1929 victory, which ushered in the
Scullin Government and within two years
saw the party split asunder and sent into
the wilderness for 10 years.
• •
Anonymous note from “An Indian”:
The only comment that I as an Indian can
make on your leading article [“lndia Blind-
folded,” from a contributor] on May 19 is
that “Caravans move while dogs bark.” Pub-
lish this. Remember, abuse solves no prob-
lems. Those who resort to abuse as argu-
ment are cowards, empty-headed fools and
creatures of no consequence. We know your
worth. Publish this too.
(1) Published. (2) Published.
• •
Victorian “Labor” intends to nominate
candidates for the two Legislative Coun-
cil seats at present held by Hollway
Liberals Gartside and MacLeod when next
year’s elections come around. Hollway
can’t very well complain about that. If
you hold the balance-of-power you can’t
blame the people you’re inconveniencing
from trying to take it away from you.
Still, on the other hand, Cain can’t expect
too many Hollway favors for the rest of
the term.
• •
Peter Howson, Liberal candidate for
the Victorian key seat Fawkner, is having
his second bout against W. M. Bourke,
who led him by 1240 last time. He’s a
graduate in Economics who had six years
with the Fleet Air Arm, was twice
wounded in action and was mentioned in
dispatches. He lives in Fawkner, is hon.
sec. of the Victorian Eye and Ear Hospi-
tal, a life governor of Royal Melbourne
Hospital and is associated with a host of
activities in Prahran, the heart of
Fawkner.
• •
Not a word has so far come from
Evatt as to how he intends to get his
proposals past the Senate if he wins the
Reps. Perhaps this is because he plans
to use the hostile Senate as an excuse for
not carrying out his promises.
• •
“Mercutio”: I’ve studied Dr. Evatt’s
sun-moon-and-stars policy, but I’m still
not satisfied. There has been no reference
to a pension for uncles. I have the privi-
lege of being an uncle, in fact a great-
uncle. If Dr. Evatt in the kindness of his
heart —bis recent emotion has shown us
how kind his heart really is—would only
enlarge his aims a very little to include
the promise of a pension for uncles, I am
sure he would win the votes of a deserv-
ing, numerous and long-suffering body
of electors. Come on, Doc. —you’ve got
three days to do it in.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
TTHIS week’s crop from the local rag:
A \ In a critique of an art show: “Miss
• , a painter of no mere ability...
Mr. —— “suffers from the insuffation of
“ Don't you stand on ceremony with me, Joe. I’ll sit down if I
choose same as I do at home.”
formative confusion.” And, “The exhibi-
tion seethes with color and romance, the
soft reds adding a note of co-operation.”
“GOATS serviced at all hours by Aus-
tralia’s champion sires. Apply X.Y.Z.
Bull’s Road.”
“FOR SALE; Good girl’s coat; also
Jersey, good quiet family cow.”
“A complaint was received by the
health-inspector that fruit and vegetables
i displayed on the pavements were receiving
the attention of dogs. This matter will
now receive the attention of council.”
“Mr. H. donated back his prize to the
committee, which he won in the barn
dance.”
All of which recalls Rosemary Dobson’s
poem “Country Press”.*' —
.... When I shall die
Set me up close against my fellow-men.
Cheer that cold column headed “Deaths”
with flowers.
Or mix me up with Births and Marriages;
Surround the tragic statement of my death
With euchre-drives and good-times-had-by-all
That, with these warm concomitants of life
Jostled and cheered, in lower-case italics
I shall go homewards in the “Western Star.”
Thark.
❖ *x* *x*
“F.S.”: An art controversy threatens
over the purchase for 25 guineas by the
Melbourne National Gallery of a picture
by Edwin Tanner, hung in a recent ex-
hibition. It depicts an office empty of
everything but a coat-hanger and a chair,
and is entitled “Public Servant.” Any
merit in the picture is contained in the
title, but it is the title to which A. T.
Smithers, State Director of Finance,
objected. He asked for it to be hiing
under another name, presumably lest
public servants be offended. Gallery
director Daryl Lindsay said that he saw
nothing cynical in the painting, which had
purity of design and a subtle color-scheme.
I personally can’t see it, but I don’t agree
with Mr. Smithers, either. If civil servants
feel criticised by the picture, then they
are criticisable. Mr. Menzies is a public,
servant, but I don’t suppose this thing
would make him want to peel off his
coat.
♦>
“Nick”: Nobby’s car took-off from
outside the dental surgery—with Nobby
still under the drill—so he and a friend
made a practice of wandering through
car-auctions in the lunch-hour. After
several fruitless weeks. Nobby spied his
old steed. The color-disguise was good,
but Nobby pointed out a sagging door
and other faults intimately known to an
owner. The clues, though, were not
making much impression on the detec-
tive ; then Nobby’s memory gave an extra
click. “Look,” he said, “I used an old
envelope as a shim in the near front-
spring. It should be still there.” Up jack
and at it. There it was, and on it Nobby’s
name and address.
. ❖ +> *X*
“Uidhist”: All theatre-lovers share
“Cauboy’s” hope (B. 21/4/'54) that the
Elizabethan Trust Will stimulate interest
in the drama; but I, for one, can’t have
his implication that capital and experts
weren’t always needed in the theatre.
What could Shakspeare, Marlowe, Ben
Jonson and co. have done without the
lively support of the actors’ companies,
with their titled and influential patrons
and shrewd commoner financiers? The
life of the theatre in the “spacious days”
of Elizabeth I and James I depended as
much on businessmen like Edward Alleyn
(also actor) and his father-in-law, Philip
Henslowe, the rich pawnbroker, as on
the author who was usually glad to accept
a few pounds for a play. The profits
from his pawnbroking and theatrical
enterprises (which included the erecting
of three theatres in the London area and
directorships of at least four actors’ com-
panics) enabled Henslowe to build and
endow Dulwich College, besides making
“Got to go on duty in a minute.”
generous provision for actors in needy
circumstances.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: The 15,316-ton Akaroa
reached Southampton the other day on her
last voyage from New Zealand —any Old
Diggers recall that she was originally the
Euripides? As a trooper in their war,
Euripides carried 38,000 Diggers to
Egypt. In Hitler’s war she carried
Government passengers and war-
materials. Now the old-timer goes to the
knackers.
-»j+
“Derwent”: Launceston '(Tas.) Junior
Chamber of Commerce, inaugurating a
big safety campaign, had 1000 bicycles
lined-up in Cornwall Ground and taped
with “lite-a-bike,” a safety-device manu-
factured in the U.S., where it’s reckoned
to have saved thousands of lives. Applied
to the rims of the cycles the tape has 235
times the brilliance of white paint and
70 times the brilliance of glass-reflectors;
motorists can pick up the gleaming
machines easily at night, it can be applied
to any sort of vehicle, and it’s useful also
to pedestrians. Dollar restrictions delayed
importation, but representations are being
made to Canberra for additional alloca-
tions. Aim of the Jay Cees is to tape
every bike in Launceston for a start, and
then get to work throughout the Com-
monwealth.
i
“Kerba”: At first glance the new
laborer gave the impression of being a
simple, naive kind of bloke, and after
he’d been with the firm for a month he’d
done nothing to alter this idea. Until the
boss copped him arriving late one morn-
ing and opened with all guns: “Look here,
don’t you know what time we start work
here?” “To be quite truthful, Mr. Smith,”
came the soft reply, “I don’t —they’re
always started when I get here.” And to
think some still believe the soft answer
turneth away wrath!
* *
“5 G.R.”: The Black Maria on the
customary round stopped putside a Fitz-
roy (Melbourne) wine-joint, where Herb
was balancing on the door-knob, A six-
footer got out and opened the back-door ;
Herb unloosened and made his run, right
into the van. “What’s wrong with you,
Herb?” said the cop. “Sorright, son,” ex-
plained Herb. “I’ll be first in tonight and
get a seat.”
“Suburbia”: I was aghast at finding a
bohemian friend buying pompous dessert-
bowls, He belched curses. “Wedding
present. Friends of the wife’s.” The
bowls were of the stunted champagne-
glass type. He gibbered quietly over the
price-tag. “I’ll be broke for a w6ek it
I buy six. Can I get away with four/
I hedged: “Better ring and ask your
wife.” He came back from the ’phone
with lockjaw: it had to be six because
they were her friends. “Hope you get
your desserts,” he inscribed the card,
“They’ll think it’s a joke,” he said sourly,
Over a middy some weeks later he told me
the bitter sequel. “Lautrec had the right
idea,” he fumed, “If there’s a must in
this life it’s a walking-stick full of
whisky.” The wedding had been dry.
“Above all,” he said, “if they have to
dish-up their fruit-swill, why all the flim-
flam of dishing it up in cocktail-glasses?
Why should orangeade pretend to be
naughty, like a dowager dancing a can-
can?”
❖ ❖
“Harrovian”: “Swilliam’s” delightful
ballad on border onions (B. 12/5/’54)
reminds me of an air-raid shelter in
London in the blitz. Two young typists
were talking of shortages and prices when
one remarked, “You know, I’ve got a
new boy-friend; met him in the shelter
and if the siren doesn’t go early tonight
we’re going to hit the town.” The next
morning she was eager to tell all. “We
had a glorious time. He must be very
wealthy.” “What makes you think so?”
“His breath smelt of onions.”
❖ ❖
“Ariadne”: I had heard of the thrifty
Scot, but a real-life one had never come
my way till Sandy escorted me to the
local movies. My sister said: “Bring
home some chocs —if there are any. I
suppose you’ll have to buy them! ” Came
interval, and my laddie asked: “D’ye
smook?” I replied, “No,” whereupon he
decided, “Weel, it’s noo much guid going
oot —we’ll stay and read the advairtise-
ments.”
“Sam”; The ultimate in frankness, a
plea for alms made to voluminous Eng-
lish writer, Professor Allison Peers, by a
Spanish beggar: “Alms, Senor, for the
love of God, who, in the fullness of my
youth, has taken from me the desire to
work.”
“Orang Puteh”: Showing a niece from
Melbourne the sights of Sydney and (on
my wife’s recommendation) had taken
her out to Watson’s Bay, by ’bus. A blue
but windy day. Watson’s Bay inspected,
partly to give the lass her afternoon’s
worth of sights, and partly, no doubt,
from that exploring zeal that suddenly
takes a man, decided to catch a ferry
back to the Quay. Strolled to the wharf
and stationed ourselves near a thin man
retreating into a grey overcoat, watching
the harbor. Waited. Talked for a while,
and waited. Finally walked over to man
in grey overcoat and asked him when
the next ferry left. He fixed me with a
cold, grey eye, and, remembering that
ferries left at regular intervals, I put it
another way: “Can you tell me when
the last ferry left?” “Seven years ago,”
he said shortly and, withdrawing into his
collar, resumed his contemplation of the
seagulls and the harbor.
TEARS, IDLE TEARS
“Everything we have put forward has been
met with sneer and insult.” — Dr. H. V. Evatt.
When Evatt goes to. battle
He doesn’t aim to miss,
And blood may stain the wattle
So long as it’s not his;
But if, when clods are flying.
He gets it in the neck
The strong man takes to crying
And does a Moussadeq.
He’s expert at insulting
The aims of enemies;
He’s always catapulting
At dark monopolies;
But when it’s nationalisation
And futures built on spec..
And someone says “inflation,”
He does a Moussadeq.
He’s just a poor weak woman
Who’s never had a chance ;
His critics are inhuman
Opponents of romance ;
“Why worry about money ?
You merely write a cheque !”
When people find this funny-,
He does a Moussadeq.
Though, mind you, when he’s wearing
The jackboot, this same Bert
Can be more overbearing
And kick more hard to hurt
Than any other Bumble
With people at his beck
And call . . . But now he’s ’umble,
And does a Moussadeq.
Suppose he comes to power
And economic laws
Refuse to cringe and cower
Before his mighty cause:
Will Evatt’s poise ashame us
And save our ship from wreck ?
He’ll crawl into pyjamas
And do a Moussadeq.
Still, we shall be enchanted
Although the cyclone sweeps:
“My dear, his face! How haunted!
How charmingly he weeps !
O economic vulture,
You naughty bird, to peck
A heart so formed by culture
To do a Moussadeq!”
N.S.W.
R. McCUAIG.
252 George-street, Sydney.


THE modem child doesn’t know how
well-off it is. Cabled from London
that R.A.F. dental experts have perfected
an ultrasonic drill, operating at 25,000
vibrations a second, which is absolutely
painless, even without anaesthetic. So
supersonic speed, like atomic energy, has
some justification. When I was a boy the
tooth-pullers yanked out double-molars
by putting their feet on your chest and
tugging, sometimes for half an hour.
I don’t know whether she is still alive,
but the person I most hate in this world
is—or was —a girl called Betty Dawkins,
who lived in our street. Once, when I
was having four double-teeth dragged out
in succession, my mother, who was stand-
ing by, tried to keep my pecker up by
saying at intervals, “Betty Dawkins
never cries!” Blast Betty Dawkins!
“Pawang.”
*X* ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: Importation to England of
a new rose named “Lilibet” has been pro-
hibited under that monicker. But what
“Must be an epidemic !”
if the new bloom had been indigenous to
Great Britain? After all, Queen Victoria
had a carriage and a railway-station
named after her.
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: “The cattle-thieving
Armstrongs,” as Douglas Stewart refers
to them (R.P. 5/5/’54), did not get their
name from their “strong-arm” methods
(which there is reason to believe they used
on odd occasions), but from their pro-
genitor, Fairburn, who was armor-bearer
to the king. The king’s nag being shot
from under him, Fairburn grasped the king
by the thigh and set him on his own horse.
The king granted Fairburn lands on the
Border and the name “Armstrong,” the
fact being duly recorded on the Arm-
strong crest. Always at war with the
Scottish kings, the chief (John) and thirty
of his followers were captured and hung
by James V. James VI finally subdued the
clan, the largest and most important of
the Border clans.
*x* *x* *x*
“W.P.T.”: “Villefair” (B. 5/5/’54) is
getting his Blaxlands mixed. Newington,
which is now the Old Ladies’ Home, was
originally the home of John Blaxland,
lesser-known brother of Gregory, though
John is deserving of credit. Gregory
Blaxland established , his vineyard at
Brush Farm, on the other side of the
Parramatta, and it was here he experi-
mented with grapes to find a variety suit-
able for wine-making. In 1816 he
planted the black Constantia grape from
the Cape of Good Hope, and in 1823 he
was awarded the Silver Medal of the
Royal Society of Arts for his wine, which
was the first of any quantity shipped to
England. Gregory also made beer of a
kind at Brush Farm, but it was certainly
not worthy of any medal. The little
chapel in the grounds of Newington,
which was built by John Blaxland, was
called St. Augustine’s, not St. Anne’s, and
was erected in 1838. Eight years later
John Blaxland was buried in a vault
attached to this chapel, but the remains
were later removed to old St. John’s Ceme-
tery at Parramatta, perhaps the most
neglected of all our historic cemeteries.
♦♦♦ ❖ *X*
“Macnell”: Judging by the latest
Admiralty release on new anti-aircraft
armament for the Fleet, automatic com-
munication and control-systems of such
speed have been developed that the fal-
lible human link is being largely elimin-
ated, As for the arms, H.M.S. Cumber-
land, the trials cruiser, will test shortly
a little bottler in the way of ack-ack —a
three-inch gun to replace cerlikons, pom-
poms and suchlike. Stated that the rate
of fire will compare with a heavy
machine-gun—that makes it somewhere
about 600 a minute. Three-inch shells!
Add to that a new Bofors, claimed to be
10 times as effective as Mark War 11,
and as accurate by night as by day.
There’ll be gun-drill for a while yet —the
gun, the Admiralty concludes, is unlikely
to be superseded by guided weapons for
many years.
“P.M.”: “P.M.” abbreviates another
individual surprisingly omitted by “Peers”
(B. 28/4/’54) —myself. As a matter of
fact, I’m an abbreviation in toto —-I’ve
often been told that I should have been
a jockey, but when I see six-footers in
buses bowed like Arabs facing Mecca I
appreciate the advantage bantams have
over Black Orpingtons when crated for
market.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Kay”: In a vaudeville act I once saw,
a chap sat exasperatedly in a phone-booth
trying to get a Jpcal exchange to connect
him to a suburban number, while in an
adjoining booth a succession of callers
got through to London and even to the
Queen Mary in mid-Atlantic. I’m that
chap myself every time I ring the city
from any Sydney outer-suburban public
phone; the only result is a faint, indis-
tinguishable mumble on the line. With
this inaudibility at such short range, what
beats me is how in the G.F.O. is a con-
versation ever carried on by phone from
Sydney to Melbourne, or, greater mystery
still, to the other side of the globe? Yet
I understand the reception is usually
good on such long distances.
“Sackville”; A train-traveller who has
inadvertently left his weekly-ticket at
home may have a rough chance of getting
past a male porter by stating the case, but
if there is a female on (he barrier it’ll
“Stop sucking so loud. I can't get to sleep."
cost him! That was why I deplored the
lack of experience displayed by a young
fellow with a pup under his arm —two
gates to pick from and he chose the one
held by Horatius’s big sister. “You’ll have
to pay for that pup,” she snapped. I
didn’t catch all of his abject reply, but
as he spoke he allowed the pup to stretch
its furry little neck towards the porteress.
When I looked back, the pup was licking
the caressing feminine hand, and the por-
teress was beaming at its owner. Maybe
the young bloke did know women, after
all.
* *> *l*
“Bombardier”: When thd Army gets
around to calling up New Australians, it
will get an unexpected bargain in my
mate Kirill. At the age of 12 he took
to the mountains with his father, \yho
was in the Czef h Resistance, and
at 13 knifed his first sentry. Be-
fore the war ended he’d strangled
another sentry with his belt, and
knocked out a German tank
with a bazooka in the fighting
in Prague. He liked the Czech
Army, and stayed in for a
couple of years after the war —
as an instructor in street-fight-
ing. He was all of 16 when
someone found out about it, and
they discharged him. Some
sar’-major showing him how to
slope-arms the Australian way
would be a change. It might do
them both good.
❖ *X* ❖
“Nakh”: Somebody said that
,no man is a hero to his valet. I
would say, on the contrary, that
if he isn’t a hero to his valet, he
won’t be a hero to anybody else
—which brings me to the case of
a modernist artist who was pre-
paring canvases for an
exhibition and put them under
a gum-tree to dry. Subsequently
he rang-up his wife in the city
and, with anguish in his voice,
said: “Do you know what you
did when you went out this
morning? You backed the car
over my pictures.” “Oh, well,
dear, don’t worry about that,”
his wife said. “It will probably make
them look better.”
• ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: Talking of streets that
wind and do other things (B. 5/ 5 / ’54),
those of Singleton (N.S.W.) are laid out
in triangular form. So are the streets of
Le Treport, France, where I put in a
war-time hospital spell. Not knowing
this, and wishing to elude two of the
local charmers, I streaked for the lick
of my life around two corners and found
myself in their arms —figuratively speak-
ing, of course.
“Ceg”: One of those excellent little
books issued by one of the big wine
houses says dessert wines are “served at
room-temperature.” That needs some
elaboration. For instance, the tempera-
ture in this room at the moment would
be fatal to wine-drinking unless one like’s
one’s wine lukewarm. It is only fair to
say that in another booklet issued by the
* same house room-temperature is given at
60 to 65 degrees F.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Kellick”: Tattooed men (B. 5/5/’54)?,
I’ve a few of the decorations myself,
though I managed to confine them to the
more popular sites, arms and chest. But
I’ll always remember the day I walked
into the bathroom aboard the cruiser
Sydney (second edition) to be confronted
with a large backside bent over a bucket
of dhobying. On each cheek was an eye
and the letters “1.C.U.”
*t* ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”; Travellers on the Transcon-
tinental can easily start an argument
regarding the correct order of Prime
Ministers in Australia. When the line
was built it was decided to name its
stations after them in their correct order
—Barton, Deakin, Watson, Reid, Fisher,
Cook and Hughes. To maintain this
order, however, it was necessary to change
Ooldea to Deakin, but Ooldea had such
historic interest that the change pro-
duced a furious howl, and after a couple
of months the name Ooldea was restored
and Deakin was moved on to another
station, a distance of 172 miles, out of
correct order. The only other things I
know of that are named after Prime
Ministers in their correct order are some
trees in the little park at Faulconbridge
(N.S.W.), though they’re a little behind
in their planting.
♦> *2*
“C.A.A.”: An interesting fact about
the Royal Exchange (B. cover 5/5/’54)
is that it has a steeple on which there is
a grasshopper—that animal being the
family crest of the founder, Sir Thomas
Gresham. As a boy Gresham was
deserted by his parents and lay starving
in a Norfolk field. A noisy grasshopper
attracted the attention of a passer-by, who
found and subsequently adopted the boy
who was later to become one of London s
leading citizens.
♦x« *X*
“Cauboy”: Reported from London
that a play previously ascribed to that
übiquitous writer Anon is to be included
in a new Complete Works of Shakspeare
this year. This is bad news for school-
boys, who will probably have to study
another play they won’t understand. It
is also bad news for as
nothing is more certain than that “Sir
Thomas More” (the new play’s title) will
eventually be seen behind the footlights.
Yet we can’t help feeling excited about
anything associated with a great man,
even a laundry bill. In the past only 150
words of this 16th-century play have been
attributed to Shakspeare, so he probably
rushed it through for production to keep
his crew of hard-up actors going while
he was busy oyer “Hamlet” or “King
Lear.” There are only a few lines that
could be attributed to Shakspeare in that
sanguinary drama “Titus Andronicus,”
but that the Bard prepared this choice
titbit for production is pretty certain, and
he must have been amused when it had
a much better run than “Hamlet” with
those exalted beings the Elizabethan
theatregoers.
THE SNAG
“Defending the sausages served in Victorian
railway refreshment-rooms against a charge or
being an ‘abomination,’ the chairman ot the
Railway Commissioners, Mr. R. G. Wishart,
said the railways were proud of their sausages,
which they made themselves.”
Sing of your shamrock and cherish your
rose;
Roll a proud “r” when you speak
Of Scotland’s sharp thistles that flum-
moxed her foes ;
Or strike the wild lyre to your leek.
Hold high the tulip, you sons of Van
Tromp,
Or wave a brave broom as your flag—
Then swallow your pride, for it’s not in
the comp.
With the pride Wishart holds for his
snag.
Point to huge liners you built on the
Clyde,
Or brandish your tower —out of plumb ;
Flourish your Eiffel, per brochure and
guide.
Or loud beat the State Building’s drum.
Alas, vain achievements; your brightest
gems pale,
Parisian, Scot or New Yorker!
As Galahad felt for his lost Holy Grail,
So Wishart regards his prime snorker.
O monarch of Babylon, deep in the tomb ;
O Cheops, embalmed in your cloth,
Do words of the Wishart descend through
the gloom
And rouse you to envious wrath ?
Doubtless a pyramid, gardens in air,
Would kindle the pride of you Wogs,
But scarcely the subjects with which to
compare
The Railway Commissioner’s snogs.
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Commander Anthony Cooper, R.A.N.,
was in British battleship Malaya at Con-
stantinople for the funeral of Kemal
Ataturk. One of the few Australian
naval men to actively liaison with the
A.1.F., Cooper left cruiser Perth in the
Mediterranean, on loan to Diggers in
Syria to help with bombardments and
suchlike assistance from the sea. Next
address was cruiser Hobart (he’d been
with her earlier, in the Red Sea), which
he, perforce, left when she stopped a Jap
torpedo in the Solomons. Then he took
on his present science, surveying, and was
up round the Philippines and Borneo
marking out the invasion-courses. The
other day, in' command of the survey-
vessel Warrego, he shoved-off from
Garden Island, bound Exmouth Gulf;
object there to ensure that prospective
tankers of Walkley and others don’t
drag their bottoms.
• •
Low’s impression of now-79 John
Lemmon was done in the days
when the victim was a consider-
able figure in Victorian Labor
politics. Lemmon was then Trades
Hall authority on the Working Men’s
College (his own Alma Mater) and past-
president of the A.N.A, He served in a
clutch of Labor Ministries, and for a
time was on the council of Melbourne
University. Athletic in his younger days,
he proved as good a stayer in politics, and
successfully resisted all attempts to up-
root him from Williamstown (Vic.), a
seat he won in 1904 and has held con-
LEMMON according to LOW
tinuously ever since—an Australian record
for a State legislature. The other day he
announced he’s had enough. Son Nelson,
who won the Forrest (W.A.) seat from
long John Prowse in the 1943 Federal
election, is having a shot at Sydney’s St.
George this time.
# #
New York publishers Dutton and Co.
have put out an American edition of
Salt in Our Wounds, first novel by Scar-
borough (W A.) newsagent Jack Harvey.
The sixth English edition has already
sold out. A rangy 33 Harvey is Westra-
IXo HWer SatSd
oeioie JTitlei started. ine novel is
based on Harvey s experiences in a
tanker, sunk by a Nip submarine on the
Equator, south of India, and on the 38
days he and other survivors drifted round
the Indian Ocean in a lifeboat. He began
writing after a smashed left hand had put
him into a Tasmanian hospital. A second
novel is taking shape in the seclusion of
a beach-caravan.
• •
“Uramao”: Just finished jubilating on
notching its hundredth year, Wanganui
Collegiate School, New Zealand, Among
its better-known products are Rear-
Admiral James Ritchie (naval officer in
charge of Liverpool during almost the
whole of its War II travail). Sir William
Marris (sometime Governor of the United
Provinces of India and member of the
Indian Council), Sir Arthur Porritt (Sur-
geon to the Queen), and Sir Harold
Beauchamp (father of Katherine Mans-
field). The present head, F. W. Gilligan,
has bossed the school for the past 18
years. An Oxford blue, he trained four
of the school’s seven Rhodes men. He’s
due to lay-up his mortar-board in August,
There’ll be a Londonderry air about
Soccer in Westralia now that two North
Irish players of note have joined their
brothers in Perth. The new arrivals,
Robin Adair and youngest brother Noel,
in their native Londonderry were steve-
dore and projectionist, respectively. They
have been sponsored by the North Perth
club. Brothers already established here
are Ron, who has captained the Westra-
lian side, and Bill, also a State rep.
• •
“Jock”: Every Old Dig. of the 9th
Brigade respected his brigadier, “Rosie”
of B. 19/ 5/ ’54; not a few feared him,
coming as he did from the battle-tested
Second Divvy with a reputation of being
a fire-eating disciplinarian. He liked his
fire all right—five wound-stripes and a
record of being up amongst the stoush-
ing when he should have been at h.q.
But as a brash young corp., who joined
brigade orderly-room after Passchendaele,
reputations held no terror for me, Rosie
had prepared a report for Division. This
said, in part, “My brigade was practically
annihilated at Passchendaele.” I was to
type the report, but my cub-reporter
training recoiled at that qualification.
When X mentioned I was going in to see
the Old Man, you could feel the pity in
the orderly-room. “He’ll eat you!” they
said. But, as I say, I was young. I faced
Rosie, and said: “You can’t say prac-
tically annihilated, sir; annihilation is
complete.” I aged five years in the awful
moment he glared at me. Then he said,
gently, “Ye 3, you’ve got something there,”
and slashed with his pen.
e «
“Jason”: War II found Charles, Burns
(bom in Simla, kindergartened in Fiji,
schooled in New Zealand) in cruiser Aus-
tralia during suicide-bomber attacks, con-
cerned with anti-aircraft fire—the ex-
lieutenant holds a “mention” as a re-
minder. War over, he started at Adelaide
University; while there he was in South
Australia’s first Rugby team to tour
Sydneywards. In 1948 he joined the
square-rigger Passat, Falmouthrbound.
After a look at the U.K. and some of the
Continent, he found a passage home not
easy to get, so, perforce, circled the globe
in Passat, arriving home in time to begin
second-year of his course. He’ll shortly
become one of the newest house-surgeons
at Royal Adelaide Hospital.
• •
Whether “Bring me a bock” will
be heard in Melbourne drinking-circles as
it is in Paris cafes should soon be decided,
Richmond Brewgry having put on the
market a new dark-brown beer which is
the tipple for spring in its country of
origin, Germany. It looks like stout,
doesn’t taste quite like it, and is the
recipe of Hans Dietrich, head-brewer of
Richmond. His father was a brewer and
his son ran a brewery pre-war in Singa-
pore.
.• •
Albert Hannan retired from the post
of South Australian Crown Solicitor in
1952 to go into private practice; now,
by virtue of the absence of Ligertwood,
J., in Canberra on the Petrov business,
he returns to the Supreme Court to sit
on the Bench. A man who doesn’t mind
an argument, whether in court or the
Press, Hannan represented South Aus-
tralia and Westralia in the Privy Coun-
cil appeal on the Bank-grab case. Born
in Port Pirie, he bagged his degrees and
three scholarships at Adelaide Uni-
versity. Has produced two books on law
and is working on a biography.
• •
The Rennie Memorial Medal is
awarded by the Royal Australian Chemi-
cal Institute each year to a member on
the lee-side of 30 for the best contribution
to the development of chemical science
in Australia. Which presupposes that the
winner, at that age, hasn’t wasted much
time. Latest award has landed on James
Douglas Morrison, who took an honors
degree of B.Sc. in 1945. Glasgow Uni-
versity gave him a Directorate of
Philosophy three years later, the same
year as C.5.1.R.0. took him on the
strength. Now senior research-officer in
the chemical-physics section of the
organisation’s Division of Industrial
Chemistry in Melbourne, Dr. Morrison
is particularly concerned with mass spec-
troscopic work at Fishermen’s Bend.
• •
After many years of helping to bring
relief to destitute persons in South Aus-
tralia, F, G. Byrne has himself obtained
relief —retiring, though, retaining chair-
jnanship of the Public Service Appeals
Board. Connected with kiddies for 36
years before he became, in 1942, under-
secretary and clerk of the Executive
Council, Byrne joined the S.A. Children s
Department in 1906, became secretary in
1927 to the newly-formed Children’s
Welfare and Public Relief Department,
and by 1938 was chairman of the board
controlling it. He was, too, for a time
Playford’s private-secretary. Bowls, and
is a Past Master of the Public Service
Lodge.
• •
Perth lawyer and Old Digger Hubert
Parker was one of the Opposition casual-,
ties in the recent Westralian Legislative
Council election. A thickset 71, son of
a judge, he practised law before serving
as a gunner-officer overseas, returning
with his majority and D.S.O. In 1930 he
entered the Assembly as M.L.A. for East
Fremantle, lost the seat, but returned as
representative of Suburban Province in
the Upper House. He held several port-
folios in the McLarty Government —Mines
and Health in 1947, Chief Secretary and
Police in 1948, and Native Affairs in
1949 —but resigned them all in 1950.
Outside Parliament, he served several
terms on the State executive of the R.S.L.
• •
Passed his 91st milestone, G. H.
Withers, of Northam (W.A.), who came
to Westralia from Dublin in 1863 as a
baby-in-arms, in the convict-ship Lord
Dalhousie, of which his father was chap-
lain, Withers started in Bunbury as a
grocer’s-boy, did a spot of wharf-labor-
ing at 14, then went into the Treasury.
He gave that away to go jackerooing,
becoming manager of the run at 22. Since
then he’s been in many business ventures.
• •
When Ethelbert Ambrook Southee
goes out to pasture shortly from the
principalship of Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College he will take the warm re-
gard of thousands of ex-students with
him. Camouflaging a heavy swag of
academic distinctions with a breezy
manner and an infectious grin, he’s been
turning men out on to the land for the
past 33 years, and has enjoyed every year
of it —partly because it was a job he
loved, partly from the fact that he did it
in beautiful surroundings at historic
Richmond. Born at Cootamundra
(N.S.W-), Rhodes Scholar for 1913, he
went throygh the Universities of Sydney,
Oxford and Cornell (U.S.), gathering on
the way M.A., B.Sc., B.Sc.Agric. and
a double-blue at Oxford for Rugby and
athletics. In Italy with the B.E.F. (after
serving in Belgium and France), he re-
minded old friends that he used to be the
fastest sprinter in N.S.W. by winning the
100-metre championship of the Allied
Forces. As for his H.A.C. stewardship;
it is enough to record that a diploma in
agriculture or dairying from that college
is highly respected throughout the world.
• •
Here is H. R, Richardson, Southee’s
successor at Hawkesbury, and, in 1948,
the college’s first deputy-principal. He had
hardly graduated from Sydney Univer-
sity when, per Adolf, he graduated into
the 9th Divvy’s Tank-Attack Regiment,
PRINCIPAL
spat of learning Alamein Cantnred
seat or learning, /viamein. uapiurea
there, he came back after the war to
study plant-breeding at Grafton (N.S.W.)
Experiment Farm. A period at head-
quarters followed, working on pasture-
improvement under Jack Whittet, senior
agrostologist. Looking for a deputy for
Southee, the Department’s experienced
pvpi lighted on Richardson right age
eye lighted on Richardson right age,
knowledge and temperament. Apparently
that opinion, hasn’t altered.
The face behind the black moustache
in this Coventry drawing belongs to a
man who claims that he just drifted into
science, but it appears there was a con-
siderable amount of direction about the
drifting of the lad from a small Wes-
tralian country town who won scholar-
ships to Perth Modern School, the Uni-
versity of W.A. and the University of
London. After graduating B.Sc. in Perth
and Ph.D. in London, William Rogers
joined the C.5.1.R.0. and became a
PROFESSOR
research-officer at the McMaster- Labora-
tory in Sydney, and president of the
N. S. Wales branch of the C.5.1.R.0.
Officers’ Association. Now he is Pro-
fessor of Zoology at Adelaide ’Varsity,
with extra-mural interests in art, ballet,
skiing and cooking.
• •
The world’s leading flying
furniture-removalist must be B. Cornish,
who has his headquarters in Hobart. He
guarantees to lift your grand-piano or
your whole household equipment from
any spot in the Apple Isle and have it
installed in Adelaide, Sydney or Mel-
bourne within 12 hours. He charters
T.A.A. planes, goes with his cargo, and
has just completed his 200th trip and more
than 200,000 miles of aerial transport in
five years.
• •:
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 76, Herbert Magee, Queens-
land Commissioner of Taxes from 1923 to 1941,
and afterwards chairman of the Board of
References, War-time (Company) Taxation,
and member of the Federal Capital Issues Com-
mittee. Born in Manchester (Eng.), he came
to Australia as a child, and completed his educa-
tion at St. John’s University ,College, Sydney.
He entered the N.S.W. public service in 1896.
In his youth a keen amateur boxer.
In Perth, at 71, Archdeacon L. W. Parry,
well-known to generations of schoolboys in
Westralia. Son of Perth’s second Anglican
Bishop, he graduated in arts from Oxford in
1904, was ordained deacon in England in 1907,
and two years later returned to Westralia as
assistant-master of Guildford Grammar, remain-
ing there until 1920. Followed headmastership
of Christ Church Grammar School, Claremont,
and rectorship of St. Patrick’s, Mt. Lawley.
While Archdeacon, he twice administered the
diocese of Perth.
At Havelock (N.Z.), at 67, Wing-Commander
Arthur Colwell Upham, D.F.C. A native of
Devon, he served with the Imperial forces in
War I, joined the R.A.F. in 1916 and won his
distinction in Afghanistan. In New Zealand
after that war, he joined Walsh Brothers,
pioneer airmen, and made the first flight down
the middle of the North Island from Auckland
to Marton. In 1926 he was flying under the
Canadian Government, but returned to N-.Z.
to command an air-training school at New
Plymouth in War 11.
In Albany (W.A.), at 74, Harold St. George
Bird, Collector of Customs at Fremantle when
he retired in 1943. For 40 years before that
he had been mainly engaged in tracking-down
smugglers.
At 77, in Sydney, George Wright, retail-
trader all his working life and for years manag-
ing-director of Farmer’s, Sydney. Sometime
chairman of directors of the Bankers and
Traders’ Insurance Co., he was not too busy
for charitable dealings ; the Burnside Presbyter-
ian Homes for children for long had his devoted
attention as chairman.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 54, Brigadier Benja-
min Barrington, D. 5.0., 0.8. E. On the out-
break of Hitler’s war staff-officer to New Zea-
land’s Director of Mobilisation, he left for
overseas with the second N.Z.E.F. draft,
served in Greece with the Sixth Infantry
Brigade, and was brigadier at the Battle of
Cassino, in Italy. In 1945, he worked with
Rehab., and in 1949 travelled the Islands on
the Licensing Control Commission.
At 78, in Melbourne, William Lionel Russell
Clarke, pastoralist, and Legislative Councillor
for 27 years. Son of Sir William Clarke, he was
an Old Digger who came out with a commis-
sion. Was a leading racing man in Melbourne.
In Perth, at 44, Cyril James Norman, founda-
tion- and life-member of Cottesloe (W.A.)
Athletic Club and one of Westralia’s most
successful athletic trainers. As well as coach-
ing school rowing-crews, he trained noted
runners, among them George Morley (whom
he took to Hobart in 1939 to win the Aus-
tralian 10,000 metres championship), Dave
White (the, miler and half-miler who had
big successes in the eastern States) and Laurie
Bowers (winner of the York Gift in Westralia).


'lf/aA ojoouV you ?)
'Xb-VW, ; you9&£Uf c
STATISTICAL


ABORIGINALITIES
C|AW a Bully par. once about a diving
dog. Well, we have one here, in
Samarai (Papua). Sandbank is of mixed
breed, medium-size, heavily-built, with a
heavy, rough, black-and-tan coat. He
was found by a trawler-master, soon after
the war, on a sandbank in Torres Strait.
He had survived on that unlikely place
by catching fish and drinking fresh water
in a crashed plane. How he got there he
didn’t say ; but he was obviously pleased
to leave. Now, in Samarai, Sandbank is
often seen swimming and diving. He
can dive to a depth of two fathoms and
bring up objects from down there.
Sunday-afternoon sport for the kids is
to throw bits of trochus-shell into the
water farther and farther out, and see if
they can dive as deep as the dog. He’s
getting on a bit now, and sometimes he
has a couple of tries before he comes to
the surface with the trochus-shell between
his teeth, but he can still touch two
fathoms. Last view of him as he goes
under is of tail and hind-feet. Some fairly
high offers have been made to Sandbank’s
owner, but he refuses to part with him.
—“Daika.”
“A.P.”: Conversation-piece : “Know
that big bloke of mine, Tom?” Thought-
ful silence, “Yair, Yair, I know him.
Used to come to the corner at night for
a drink. Unhappy-looking. Never seemed
to do well.” “That’s him.” “Yair, I
know him.” “Well, he put on a hundred
easy while I had him. Anyway, I’ve
trucked him. Ought to hang at five
hundred.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Emjai”; The increase in numbers of
blackbirds around Melbourne suburbs,
and the simultaneous diminution in
population of the garden thrush, set me
pondering on causes. I think I have hit
on the main one. The blackbird is the
worst of garden pests, raiding fruit-trees
and tearing at garden-beds and borders
after worms. The thrush’s war is mainly
on snails and slugs. The one could be
classed with vermin; the other is a friend
and ally. But the blackbird has a high
degree of cunning and activity, while the
thrush has a gentle friendliness and trust-
fulness which are his undoing* Of nests
located this season, the blackbirds’ were
all safe from marauding cats and owls;
for example, high behind a heavy wall-
creeper, and deep in the middle of a big,
dense, prickly holly. On a horizontal
branch of a copper-beech, 4ft. from the
ground and open to view, is another nest,
beautifully built and lined. The four
speckled eggs are still there, sad testimony 1
to the fate of the parent thrushes.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Outback”: Coming into Broken Hill
from the north, a paddock leaps to the
eye —a speck of green in the great brown
distance. Green-feed —though not in
abundance —but, still, green, with scat-
tered, stunted shrubs. Part of an experi-
ment to discover the damage done to the
country by overstocking with sheep, this
paddock, 15 years ago, was like those
around it, brown and parched. Gradually,
over the years, it has changed from brown
to green.
* * * *
“P.N.8.”: Harking back to a dis-
cussion here on colored rabbits, my ex-
perience is that black-and-whites, though
rarer than other color-schemes, are
found wherever bunnies are thick enough.
When I was buying skins a. few years
back I came across black-and-whites—
not often, but often enough to give me a
fair idea of their incidence, I’ve shot
black-and-whites, too —in fact, for a
couple of years I had one for a pet. But
I can’t say that I’ve ever noticed any
particular frailty in colored rabbits. If
anything, colored skins are generally of
better quality than grey ones, and their
original owners, on the whole, are fatter
than other rabbits. I’ve also come across
yellow-and-whites and blue-and-whites,
and the same general observation applies.
Certainly colored rabbits don’t seem to
lack the hardiness to survive under tough
conditions, the only thing unusual about
them being that they are unusual.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Scratch-pulling— two
horses matched against each other, strain-
ing in opposite directions —was, as “Sack-
yiile” says (B. 5/ 5/’54), barbaric. But
worse still was the horse v. tractor match.
When tractors were beginning to displace
horses in the Westralian wheatbelt an
occasional old diehard with a good team
would pull a tractor for a bet. Tractors
have improved a lot since then, and
often enough the team won. But the
result was usually the same in the long
run. You can’t break a tractor’s heart.
* * * «
The old weatherboard cot-
tage was standing 38 years ago, to my
“Whoever sold you that dog sold you a pup.”
own knowledge, but now the sit© has
become valuable and a big shop is to go
up on the block. Passing daily I watched
the old place being pulled down. First
the tiles came off; every sixth was wired
down —these days it’s considered neces-
sary to wire every second tile to the bat-
ten. Then the studs were revealed; they
were three-by-two, spaced at fully 2ft.
centres. Modern regulations decree that
all external studs shall be four-by-two, at
18in. centres. The bearers were merely
three-by-three (to-day four-by-three). No
present-day architect or building-inspector
would have permitted a 7ft. span between
piers, nor allowed the piers to be built in
lime-mortar with little or no cement
therein; the deficiency was very evident
in the deeply-fretted joints of the brick-
work (a Creature like a tiny beetle will
eat out poor mortar, especially in damp
positions). But accepted ideas die hard ;
as I passed yesterday another passer-by
remarked to his companion: “They don’t
build ’em like that these days.” His mate
agreed heartily. They didn’t know how
right they were.
* * * &
“Jez”: Young fellows make good
pocket-money supplying worms and frogs
to David Fleay at his Native Fauna Sanc-
tuary, West Burleigh (Q.). Besides better-
known bush creatures, Fleay keeps sea-
eagles, Tasmanian devils, wombats and
death-adders. His platypus is the star-
boarder. Reared in captivity, it eats
thousands of worms weekly, plus a four-
egg custard daily. Its favorite, plaything
is an old dish-mop. Pens and cages are
on high, sloping ground, giving natural
drainage and a view of land, sky and sea,
thus simulating natural environment.
Fleay’s collection entertained the Queen
and Duke of Edinburgh at Government
House, Brisbane, and the platypus, sensi-
tive at the best of times, was upset for
days afterwards. Probably another victim
of “Royal-tour fever.”
♦ * * ♦
“Bill’s Daughter”: Wish I had one of
“Ceg’s” golden dragons for every time I’ve
heard my father tell that tale about the
planter with the glass-eye—it was cur-
rent in the Solomons when he was there
about 50 years ago. I seem to recall a
somewhat similar incident in Rider Hag-
gard’s King Solomon’s Mines, and Jack
London used it, too: for all I know he
may have heard it from my father —I
know they met. Another favorite was
the story concerning my nurse-boy Hauto,
who came to my father and respectfully
resigned; grounds for complaint —the
behavior of “dis pfeller baby” ( me!),
who poured her breakfast over his head ;
that he could not wear his big ear-hoops
because the infant “she pull ’im too
much.” “Better,” he finished with dig-
nity, “me go along bush, work along
akkis.” Looking after my own half-dozen
“pfeller babies,” I’ve often thought of
Hauto with some sympathy; and there
have been odd moments when “go along
bush, work along akkis” hasn’t seemed
such a bad idea.
“West”: Dubbo (N.S.W.) planted jaca-
randa-trees in Myall-street, some time
back, and there was some early doubt
whether they would survive. People in
the street looked after them, weeded
them, saw that they were protected from
frosts. Citizens and trees now doing well.
* ♦ * *
“Sackfair”: Go-ahead potato-growers
are close behind banana-growers in re-
cruiting plastics to their aid, but the spud-
men use the plastic bags after the crop
is taken-off. The Irish-apples are washed
thoroughly, then placed in the trans-
parent bags, 51b. to a bag. A series of
small holes in the plastic ensure that the
contents will not sweat or go mouldy.
The small bags enable a shopkeeper to
buy the quantity he requires, almost to
the pound, instead of to the nearest jute-
bag ; he is saved much of the trouble of
weighing-up; and the irksome necessity
of washing the dirt off his hands every
time he sells murphies is eliminated. The
customer can see every spud she is buying
and the bag ultimately becomes a lunch-
envelope that keeps Pop’s sandwiches
moist. Quite a novelty to hear of some-
thing that pleases producer, retailer and
consumer, but the bag-dealers, thinking
of all the jute-bags they won’t sell at six-
bob a time, mightn’t like it.
♦ * * *4
“Brid”: A Bridport (Tas.) resident,
rambling along the beach in the direction
of Sandy Cape the other day, found an
old glass preserving-jar made by a well-
known firm. Oval-shaped at the bottom
and round at the top, a delicate purple,
and with the date—November 30, 1858
—on one side ; nearly a century old. A
local theory is that the jar may have come
from the brigantine Creole, which was
wrecked in ’63 on a trip from Launceston
to Dunedin (N.Z.), somewhere between
Twenty Day Island and Waterhouse Island
in Anderson Bay. The vessel carried a
number of passengers who had with them
furniture and household effects, a quan-
tity of which was washed-up, round the
bay and further along the north-east
coast. The remarkable thing was that,
although bodies of sheep and cattle were
found, as well as sections of the ship it*
self, there was never trace of any, human.
« • * •
“Villefair”: You’re in this game you’re
on your own, so when this Delaney bird
makes a blue-stew (B. 5/5/’54) you go
him like you didn’t like him ; which may-
be you do. Maybe he could of got rattled
about Jardine knocking himself off;
maybe he’s not so tough that he don’t
turn on the waterworks when the funeral
goes past, and he’s not seeing things
clear —but it’s a monty he never saw the
driver of that hearse with a top-hat on
his noggin! If he looked a bit closer
he would of seen the gink has a peak-cap
like a chauffeur, which it’s odds-on he’s
not wearing on account of the late-
lamented is in a box just behind him.
And the lanky character might of had a
topper on, but, me, I’d lay him seven-to-
four of them frogskins that the mournful-
looking coot’s got it sitting on his knees ;
and that might be on account of he’s
showing respect for the departed, but most
like it’s because he’s a tall bloke and them
country roads is kind of bumpy, and he’s
had top-hats flattened on the roof of the
hearse before he wakes-up to himself. It
adds up.
THE BOY WHO DREAMED THE
COUNTRY NIGHT
(From “The Boy in the Island”)
“Yes,” said the boy, “first come the gum-tree
crowds,
These are the first things you see, waving their
spars
And black heads on the sky, to the meaningless
stars.
“Yes,” said the boy, “the stars have no mean-
ing,
You must keep close to the ground;
And so let me hug the ground as I go:
The cold roads, led by the song of ’phone wires
to the terrible countryside,
The road’s cool stones, the poor pebbles, that
prick my eyes with tears,
The nested lonely grass by the roadside, calling
someone to make his bed there,
The lights of a suburb across the river—lost!
We are in the country.
“A mailbox, a track, a house;
Night roosts on the woodpile of the timid
weatherboard farmhouse,
The old man and his wife are sitting by the
fire:
Stay by the fire, old country people (you should
be afraid)
And never walk out where the secret trees wait;
Only the tender dry grass has love in it,
And need not be feared. Sweet grass! Sweet
to sleep there,
But who would ever dare, watched by the
pitiless, black-skinned trees,
And the land’s cold eye?
“In the brown-smelling country bedroom,” said
the boy,
“There is something old and dread ;• some sor-
rowing disease
The last century left, haunting dead flowers
Of the wallpaper here, whistling softly
In the wash-stand’s fat white china jug.
But the country daughter doesn’t seem to know
of it,
Standing in her chaste white nightgown:
Her calm and cow-deep eyes look nowhere I
can see,
And the dead years don’t haunt her; she belongs
to them;
Her long brown hair she brushes down before
the wardrobe mirror
Is ancient hair; Grandma’s hair, secret, let
down only here.”
N.S.W.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


IN the mountains behind Empire Bay
(N.S.W.) aboriginal carvings on the
flat rocks have been made more distinct
by some laudable anthropologist who,
evidently a number of years ago, marked
along the lines with white paint. A shark
and a fish are- very plain; a kangaroo
quite recognisable. Strangely, the fish’s
tail is shown with one line crossing the
other, as in the letter “X.” Presuming
that the directors of the films “The Robe”
and “Quo Vadis” checked their details,
the persecuted Christians in Rome, using
a fish as their secret code-sign, also drew
the outline with the lines crossing over
each other at the tail. It could be that
the heathen aborigine in Australia and
the martyr Christian in Rome were draw-
ing the same symbol in the same way at
the same time. —“Bellfield.”
* • ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: As a further word
on Vlaming’s plate (which, as recorded in
these pages, is now in a case in
Perth Public Library), it isn’t tin. It’s
pewter.
♦ * * *
“Emjai”: Whether the Dying Stock-
man (B. 28/4/’54) sang of “blanket” or
“bluey” doesn’t matter much, for they
were synonymous, but the fact remains
that, with the stockman, the prospector,
or others on the move in the outback in
the early days, the essential blanket was
more generally called the “bluey.” The
word derives, of course, from the dingy
blue, or sometimes grey, of the outdoor
blanket, and the name has stuck, whether
color be blue, grey or brindle. The
swagman carrying his swag, roll or knot
—waltzing matilda, or humping the
“bluey”-—is just carrying his rolled blue
(with variations) blanket. The hetero-
geneous contents of the roll don’t signify.
• ♦ ♦ *
“Nann Erb”: Surprised to see anyone
claiming some knowledge of the Island
natives using the word “Mary” (B.
14/4/’54). The word is spelt “meri.” It
has come into pidgin from the dialect of
the Motu tribe and has retained its native
form in the spelling.
♦ * ♦ •
“T.H.M.”: A good example of the
penetrating force of a charge by the
big sword-nosed marlin, and (what is
somewhat more rare) evidence of the
fish finishing second-best, was washed
on to the Bass Strait beach of Phillip
Island (Vic.) recently: a box containing
about one cwt. of crude rubber and,
deeply embedded in it, the broken-off
sword of a marlin —a foot of it. The im-
pact must have been terrific —and so must
have been the struggle before the break
took place.
« * • ♦
“Hampton”: A cocky in the district
where I was the ped. told me his method
of selecting names for his numerous
progeny. “In the first place, Mister,” he
said, “we looked for names in the Bible.”
(So did most parents in that locality.) “All
people,” he went on, “should have two
names, each beginning with the same
letter. It’s like this. There might be
two Abner Smiths in the district, but it
ain’t likely there’ll be two Abner Asa
Smiths. The names should be
according to the letters of the
alphabet. Jest by lookin’ at the
initials you can tell where each one
comes in the family. Me plan works like
this: The oldest is Aaron Abram. Then
we had Beth Beulah, Caleb Cyrus,
Deborah Dorcas, Ebenezer Ephraim,
Faith Felicity and Gabriel Gideon. We
couldn’t find names starting with ‘F’ in the
Bible, so we called our sixth baby after
the wife’s sister —it sounds religious like.
If the one we’re expectin’ is a boy we’ll
christen him Haman Hiram; if it’s a girl
she’ll be Hannah Hagar. We’ve got
names picked out as far as ‘J.’ We’re
thankful Q, V and X are nearer the end
of the alphabet.”
♦ * * •
“Macdhui” : Victoria’s Forest Com-
mission, which placarded highways
throughout the State last summer urging
care with match and cigarette, has
thoughtfully followed-up with a “Thank-
you-for-a-job-well-done” sign. The State
enjoyed its freest summer from bush- and
grass-fires.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“G.S.”: How far will termites tunnel
for food? Found a piece of old pine
almost eaten-out lying near the centre of
a swamp which dries-up towards the end
of summer. Six months ago that spot
was under water, as it will be again in a
month or so. The nearest ground which
doesn’t flood, and in which a nest could
be built, is 200yds. away, and even there
the water-level will rise to within a couple
of feet of the surface. There was a strong
force of termites in the riddled wood, and
tunnels led down from it into the earth,
indicating that the workers were from a
well-developed nest and not from a new
establishment set up by a newly-fertilised
queen. So they must have tunnelled at
least 200yds. to get less than a quarter of
a cubic yard of wood. There was no
other termite food in the vicinity.
* * * 9.
A FROG
IN THE BATHROOM .
IT is twelve years since we moved from
a flat within ten-minutes’ tram-ride
of Sydney G.P.O. to a house and three
acres of land in an area which is embraced
in what is now called the “Green Belt,”
but in the innocence of a decade ago was
known to us as the “outer suburbs.”
To reach our new home there was a
“ ’Ere, maestro! Can you gargle with this one?"
good mile walk from the station along
an unmade road that twisted between
gum- and wattle-trees and passed by six
poultryfarms, a dairy and two large
vegetable-gardens. The train took an
hour from Sydney.
“How do you like living in the coun-
try?” our friends asked, and we said
firmly: “You can’t call this the country!”
But after a few weeks we began to
wonder.
From the outset we kept fowls. Every-
one told us we ought to keep a cow, too.
There was a small paddock at the back of
the block, behind the orange-run, where
the owners before the owners before us
had pigs. Although this had been twenty
years ago, locally this piece of ground
was still called “your pig-paddock,” and
everyone said we had ample grazing for
a cow because, perhaps as a legacy from
the pigs, the grass there grew very long
and rank.
None of us could milk, neither were
there any volunteer learners, but we felt
guilty for a long time about the empty
pig-paddock.
One day in George-street I met a
lady who, in the past, had tried to teach
me French. She listened, enraptured, to
my account of our rural life and then,
inevitably:
“ ’Ave you zee cow?”
“No, Mam’zelle.”
“A peety. Zee cow she is such a com-
panion!”
After I reported this conversation we
all felt better. Obviously, for compan-
ionship, one should keep a cow either in a
barn or under the house. But we had
neither barn nor basement and, conse-
quently, would have to resign ourselves
to loneliness. We scattered jonquil- and
freezia-bulbs broadcast in the pig-pad-
dock and agreed to forget its existence
except during a few weeks each spring.
when visitors could be suitably impressed
with its beauties.
In any event, our sole bovine episode
did not exactly endear us to the species.
That night we had sat round the fireplace
feeling pleased about the rain, every now
and then hearing a cow bellowing in
apparent anguish somewhere near by.
“It sounds as if it’s calling its calf.”
—Mother.
“Someone has forgotten to milk it.”—
Father.
“She’s lost.”—My sister.
All of them absolutely definite in their
laymen’s opinions. At last we went to
bed. It was difficult to sleep because of
the steady, violent bellowing, so much
more noticeable here than it had been
when the small noises of the fire masked
it. So loud it almost sounded as if . . .
“ Mooooo-ohh!”
I sat up, switched on the light and,
from the bed, looked at the bland face
of the lady herself framed in the window.
She seemed to size-up the situation with
more composure than I displayed and,
deciding that my window was not, after
all, some quaint variety of cow-bail, she
withdrew her head.
In pyjamas and raincoats, and armed
with a torch, we opened the sliprails in
the roadside fence of the orchard and
began our droving act. The cow con-
tinued to bellow, but more, it seemed, in
amusement than in pain or anger. She
liked the beam of the torch, we discovered,
and would canter playfully towards it
while we dodged and feinted and stumbled
in the softest and muddiest patches, until
at last, by shining it cunningly, we man-
aged to guide her through the sliprails ...
• ♦•••*
Our next thoroughly determined in-
vaders were possums. Of course one
expects possums on the roof, but, after
we installed a new water-tank, which
filled from a long pipe sloping from the
house-roof, the smooth iron cylinder
proved, to the ringtails, as delightful as a
collection of swings, seesaws and slippery-
dips is to the kids in a built-up area.
" It took us many sleepless nights to
work out their routine. They climbed
on to the roof from a tree outside my
sister’s window on the eastern side of
the house. She reported that the first
game was a chase up the tree and a long
jump from its upper boughs to the gut-
tering. “Bootup!” they would land on
the iron. After this they took a pause,
she said, to regain their breath or to
crack rude jokes about any of the parti-
cipants who had clumsily missed their
footing at the jump and needed a second
attempt.
Once assembled, they set off for the
next event. Mother and Father in the
front-bedroom were the favored audience
for this one. It consisted of a furious
sprint along the ridgepole with girl-
possums shrieking and boy-possums
showing-off. After that it was my turn.
They sat on the ridge of the roof, argued
about who would have first turn, then,
one after the other, balanced on their
furry little behinds and pushed off for the
thrilling slide to the run-off pipe. Superb
timing was needed there, the idea being to
whip your tail (talking possum) round
the iron and let your momentum carry
you swiftly down the pipe in one glorious
rush to the top of the tank.
Any possum whose tail failed him
landed —ker-plonk—on a brick path.
from where he yelled out to the others
that he was ruined, ruined! However,
the successful competitors were heartless
in their triumph and, paying no atten-
tion to tales of woe and grievous injury,
would dance ecstatically on the top of
the tank, practising jitterbug steps or
experimenting to find out which parts of
the iron cover produced the loudest boom-
ing noises ...
*••• • • •
One of our poultry-runs was roofed
with netting that had fallen upon evil
days and could not, due to a shortage,
be replaced. The idea, of course, was that
chickens therein would be protected from
marauding hawks. No one ever visualised
what might happen if a hawk flew in
through one of the gaps and could not
discover a way out. We heard screams
and squawks and, racing to investigate,
were faced with an enormous hawk in
this very predicament. We do not own
a gun.
With cool and logical resource, Father,
as if he had been coping with this type
of problem every morning of his life, said
he would tie the hawk up “in something”
and, that accomplished, would devise a
suitable method of dispatch. While he
stood guard my sister and I raced to the
house, swiped a cotton bedspread—giving
Mother such a garbled account of our
urgent need for it that she immediately
concluded someone was bleeding to death
—and tore back to the fowlyard.
Getting the cover over the hawk was
a business. The run
was quite small and
the roof low, so that
Father’s 6ft. - high
head kept having
layers scraped off it
by the netting ; but
at last the bird was
securely tied, snap-
ping its cruel beak,
glaring with baleful
yellow eyes and
scratching vainly
with long, sharp
talons. We hated to
do it, but—chickens
being chickens —we
drowned the hawk in
a petrol-drum. Since
then no one in our
family can read the
Anc ie n t Mariner
without a peculiarly
horrible thrill . . .
When the snakes
and lizards invaded
the house we learned
to deal quite satis-
factorily with them.
The unwelcome visi-
tor that no cunning
could dislodge was
the frog in the bath-
waste.
His green brothers
and sisters lived in
the tin letter-box, but we grew affection-
ate towards them. The frog in the bath-
waste was different. We never saw him,
but everyone agreed that it would be
easier to endure a budding violinist prac-
tising jigs and exercises and “Charlie Is
My Darling,” than to live in the same
house with this bloke when he tried out
his lungs.
He found that the undersurface of the
built-in bath formed the perfect sounding-
board, He knew, in an abandoned full-
throated way, that he could make more
noise than any other frog who ever
lived, even in classical times. Keeping
the plug securely in the bath muted the
noise a little—not enough. In the ten
years of his residence he eluded every
effort of licensed plumber and exasper-
ated amateur to locate and remove him.
Then, one day recently, a friend who
had been away from Australia visited our
tree-fringed home for the first time. After
tea, as we sat on the veranda, she said:
“Terribly quiet, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” said Mother.
“It’s nice, I suppose.”
“Very,” said Mother.
“If you like it, that is,” our friend
added, doubtfully.
We suddenly knew what she meant. It
was quiet, oppressively so. Silent and
sad. We looked at each other. It was
evening, but there was no sound from the
frog in the bath-waste.
“Oh, well,” said our visitor, “there’s a
great future in the outer suburbs.” And,
regretfully, we realised that, after all these
years, that is what our district has become,
without our realising it, insidiously. The
dairy has gone, the street is paved and
the frog in the bath-waste has died of
old age. Green belt, indeed!
NANCY KEESING.
IN AUTUMN
O tell the birds the berries I have taken
have earned for me their thorns.
Say to the wildings, nonplussed m the bracken,
that he who savors all must make returns,
and that a winter from a spring will grow,
in the beginning it was ordained so; , ,
and in the autumn when the mushrooms quicken
day’s inspiration, he who listens learns
the riddle read by winter, and shall know
in the .beginning it was ordained so.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


Ruth in ihc
Rdure
When we Australians hear of hundreds of millions
of dollars being spent on huge developmental works
in North America we are inclined to say, “Ah, yes,
it is easy for the Americans and Canadians because
they have the finance.”
Admittedly, there is a wealth of funds for big
works on the other side of the Pacific. But much of
that is being carried on by “chain reaction.”
Let me explain it. Money is spent on some big
undertaking. The money is circulated in contracts and
sub-contracts, in wages, equipment, supplies. A lot
of it finds its way back to investment in some other
project, and so the chain rolls on.
What I’m trying to impress upon Australians is to
get things really started here —to attract all the finance
from overseas that we can, but also to foster a sense
of investment and make some of the links in the
chain for ourselves.
So much remains to be done with Australia, and
the field is wide open for individual effort. There is
no need, for instance, to sit and wait for governments
to take all the initiative in works which are financed
from public loans.
In America, big corporations arrange some of
the finance, but a large proportion of the money being
spent on. marvellous developmental projects in the
U.S.A. and Canada is coming in subscription from
people who are earning salaries and wages—people
who are investing in themselves.
It is the conservative mind today which says
that “investment means profit/’ Of course it means
profit—and profits mean jobs—and, as America has
shown us, jobs mean more investment for still more
jobs. That’s the effect of “chain reaction.”
For that matter, if we bring it right down to the
individual, Faith itself is an investment in one’s own
ability.
Let us have more of an investment-minded
approach to our own Australia. It demands more
than the provision of funds. It calls for the use of
our best technical brains, and, where necessary, the
introduction of that “know-how” which has trans-
formed the American economy and made U.S.A. a *
master of modern construction.
tyee.
; TV
2L%
I
In aluminium
containers
3/7 for 20
Light up one of these
superb English cigar-
ettes of pre-war
excellence. Savour
the rich, mellow
smoothness of that pure
Virginia tobacco—and you will
have formed a lasting preference for
Rothmans De Luxe Virginia ! You will know why, in the
most distinguished homes and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted as
England’s luxury
cigarette.
■
mm
mm
mm
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Where the Cost Falls
The election programme of
Dr. Evatt is wrapped around
with economics, and there is no
subject Dr. Evatt is less con-
versant with than economics.
He has made mountainous
promises of increased social-
security benefits, from the abo-
lition of the means-test to in-
creased pensions all round, and
he is recklessly unconcerned
about the cost.
Mr. Menzies has, with the
assistance of the Treasury, cal-
culated the cost for one year at
above £350 million. Dr. Evatt
claims that this is an exaggera-
tion, and so does Mr. Calwell,'
who says the trick can be done
for £154 million. Senator Mc-
Kenna, who also claimed that
Mr. Menzies’s figure was fantas-
tic, nevertheless proceeded to ex-
plain how a sum larger than the
Menzies calculation could be
raised by “Labor,” with enough
left over for taxation-cuts. Obvi-
ously not a single member of
Dr. Evatt’s Shadow Cabinet,
much less Dr.’Evatt himself, has
the foggiest notion of what the
cost of “Labor’s” election
bribery would be or how it could
be financed.
Without tloubt the cost of the
proposal would be huge. Abol-
ishing the means-test alone
would run to most of the
Calwell figure; and all pen-
sions are to be increased on
top of that. Mr. Chifley was
opposed to the abolition of the
means-test when he was Prime
Minister and Treasurer, and if
he were alive and in favor of it
now it could only be because,
during the Menzies Govern-
ment’s term of office, economic
conditions had improved suffi-
ciently to justify it.
Unfortunately they have not
improved sufficiently to justify
it. There is already far too
great a burden of non-producers
on the backs of the actual work-
ing population; and as that
► population is working only 40
hours a week, compared with
from 44 to 56 or more before
1942, the living-standards of the
workers will have to be reduced
a good deal if the field of
social-security benefits is to be
extended on the scale implied by
Dr. Evatt’s proposals.
In all equity it seems only
right that those who pay most
towards the cost of pensions
during their income - earning
lives should be rewarded by a
pension when their income
shrinks after they ceaSe to be
actively employed. But equity
is frustrated by the fact that pro-
ductivity per employed person
has not risen sufficiently to
warrant a greater liability for
free handouts; so the thrifty
have to stand back while the
“This is my first experiment. I do hope it works.”
deserving (or undeserving) poor
are attended to first. When pro-
duction per working-week rises
high enough the. thrifty should
most certainly be given pension
rights. But productivity is still
inadequate apd expensive in
Australia, a young country
which requires a huge amount
of surplus production in order
to provide capital for machinery,
works, roads, dams, etc,, to make
output in the future more plenti-
ful and cheaper.
Today almost all our economy
is based on our productivity. We
have no large investments over-
seas to bring us in an invisible
income: what we consume we
have to produce for ourselves or
import in return for the export
of our surplus wool or other
produce. For pensions to be of
any value they must be sup-
ported by production over and
above the requirements of the
employed community. The re-
quirements of the employed
community can be reduced by
imposing taxation on them
heavy enough to cut down their
spending-power. But taxation is
heavy enough as it is. It is clear
to all clear-thinking people that
the only way the means-test can
safely be abolished and other
social-security benefits afforded
is through greater production
from the body of employed per-
sons as a whole. But we are
still backward industrially com-
pared with other countries, and
have a lot to make up yet.
Dr. Evatt has promised taxa-
tion-reductions or -concessions.
But his programme of expendi-
ture is such that he can
scarcely finance it without in-
creased taxation or without
resort to bank-credit, which has
the same effect as inflating the
note-issue. He has said that he
will cease to pay for public
works out of revenue, and Sena-
tor McKenna has said that
“Labor” would raise loans to
pay for part of our defence
expenditure.
In the one case Dr. Evatt
would be striking at one of the
very means by which inflation
has been checked over the past
five years (and approved by Mr.
Chifley); in the other “Labor”
would be adding to the burden
of an unproductive war-debt,
assuming that it was able to
raise the money by public
borrowing. In any case, the
tendency would be for money to
increase in excess of the con-
sumer-goods created ; and such
a condition has been responsible
for most of the inflation in
living-costs we have seen over
the past 15 years.
Dr. Evatt’s unscrupulous and
irresponsible election pro-
gramme would throw right out
of gear the machinery by which
Australia has been moving to-
wards economic stability and
increased productivity over the
past two or three years. His
whole policy is based on eco-
nomic falsehood and trickery,
and it is loaded with inflation
and economic disruption. If he
wins the election Australia will
have passed into the hands of a
political adventurer and an
economic quack.
Omati Stuck Drill-pipe
During the month to mid-
May 492 ft. of stuck drill-pipe
was recovered from Omati No.
1 well, being drilled in Papua
by Australasian Petroleum. This
brought the total footage cleared
to 11,778 ft., leaving about
1700 ft. still in the hole. The
hole was drilled to 13,743 ft.
when caving commenced under
strong gas-pressure.
Omati No, 2 has reached
3305 ft, It was begun after
difficulties were encountered in
getting the stuck drill-pipe out
of No. 1 hole.
The gas-pressure in Omati
No. I—it1 —it is a wet gas—was
responsible for much speculation
in the shares of Oil Search, Ltd.,
which owns 10 p.c. of the shares
in Australasian Petroleum. The
starting of Omati No. 2, two
miles west of Omati No. 1,
encouraged the sharemarket to
think that the drilling company
was impressed with prospects in
the region. But though a high-
pressure well-head was brought
to the No. 1 well in February,
removal of the stuck drill-pipe
has been slower than anticipated.
Oil Search ss. shares have since
had their downs as well as ups.
They recently stood at 225. Oil
Search has an issue of 8,321,390
shares, and, as mentioned be-
fore, it owns 10 p.c. of the
Papuan venture.
“Bitumen”
“Petro”: Since (and probably
before) Noah caulked his Ark
with bitumen, that substance —
variously described or translated
as “tar” and “pitch”—has been
used for a multitude of purposes
by the men who go down to the
sea in ships.
It is not surprising, therefore,
that the coasts abutting on
shipping-lanes throughout the
world are found to harbor
splashes of bitumen. This was a
commonplace in sailing-ship
days ; it is even less remarkable
now that so many vessels use
fuel-oil for steam-raising.
But it is surprising that the
presence of small amounts of
bitumen, on rocks or in the sand
between tides or within reach of
storm-waves on the Australian
shores, should have been men-
tioned, in the prospectuses of
two companies recently floated
to search for oil, as a favorable
indication of the presence of
commercial petroleum. Very
wisely, the Frome-Broken Hill
geologists have submitted for
laboratory examination and
analysis the samples collected by
them from, the beaches of the
Great Australian Bight before an
opinion as to their value is given.
Sometimes a part of the
flotsam bitumen may be derived
from natural seeps of “asphaltic”
oil, but the satisfactory proof
that it is so derived is a matter
of extreme difficulty, even after
thorough investigation by a
petroleum - geologist of long
expedience. And the greater his
experience the less likely is he to
answer with an unqualified
affirmative.


You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
range
JIL *3 'i)(|7 Ladies’
j 17-jewel-
led Lavinas
r are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £l2/15/-.
JL Every LAVINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and a
17-jewelled movement.
LAVtNA
WATCHES
JL tbu 4
J/te ALL-BRITISH
(yiwflij
gtei^ort
From
25/
to
m
6S/-
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO. lift. LONDON
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MIS
Circular Charts for ail types
of Recording Instruments
(or any class of MjcWnvjp
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
JACMMO;SIIUVAN%U
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
WANTED PARTNER
for Goldmine ready for production*, fully
equipped, battery, concentration-table,
jackhammer, stopers, 2 winding engines,
compressor, pumps, cyanidation plant,
etc. Yield up to date 1000 tons for an
average of 3oz. (three ounces) of fine
gold per ton. For further information
and particulars apply ,
P.O. Box 1, Georgetown,
North Queensland
io
m
m
m
film
m
S X
fM
ii
Wrestler opens doors
These hands Were once chosen to represent
Australia at the Olympic Games—heavy-
weight wrestling division. Their duties today
include working the hydraulic mechanism
which opens and closes the great bronze doors
of the Head Office of the Bank of New South
Wales.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands work in the
"Wales” —protecting the deposits of custom-
ers and assisting in financing trade and indus-
try. They are willing to work for you, too.
\ Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WADES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5408C
Rigiflex HOLDS
RUPTURE
9 out of IO men .
are NOT SATISFIED
WITH TRUSSES!
Even under the most
exacting, conditions the
RIGIFLEX BELT
HOLDS and PREVENTS
THE SPREAD OF RUP-
TURE. Fitting like a
“second skin” it relieves
AT ONCE all pressure
from the hernia region;
this entirely replaces
methods which rely on
outside pressure on the
rupture tear ONLY.
The Rigiflex Belt is made
in varying depths accord-
ing to the special require-
ments of each person.
It is light, porous and
easily laundered.
The Rigiflex Method is
individual as no two cases
are entirely alike. Write
today for the interesting
and fully illustrated book-
let AR.I. “Some things
all Hernia sufferers should
know”.
the rigiflex belt
Sold in Sydney exclusively by
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO. LTD.
160 Pitt St., Sydney, Tel. 8L2684
Manufactured Ltd., Melbourne
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Inevitably the Bevan affair
has grown in intensity and
acerbity. The question now is:
does the Labor-party organisa-
tion, vice Mr. Herbert Morri-
son, mean to do its utmost to
bring political ruin to Mr.
Aneurin Bevan?
Although some cautious ob-
servers are taking pains to dis-
count the obvious implications
of the Morrison frontal assault,
the general impression that a
battle to the death has been
joined is hardly shaken by the
subtlety of their arguments.
Everything points to a clean-up
before the 'next general-election
campaign. “Socialist Com-
mentary” has neither the official
weight of the “Daily Herald”
(embarrassed at the trouble-
making) nor the huge following
of the “Daily Mirror” (in
vociferous favor of a show-
down), but it Circulates among
committee-rooms and other
places where party-workers
gather. ,
In his open attack in that
journal, Mr. Morrison stated
that “electorally, Mr. Bevan has,
I fear, cost us much.” Now, to
this commentator, such an ad-
mission is significant, for, two
years ago, a Labor Peer told
him that Mr, Sevan’s notorious
“the Tories are lower than ver-
min” speech cost the party 20
marginal seats in 1951. That
undoubtedly was the sore, and
necessarily suppressed, opinion
of the organisers at Transport
House. To qualify his state-
ment Mr. Morrison made public
this hard and damning fact—'
except that, no doubt because of
heightened dismay at h.q., the
number had grown to “from 30
to 50 seats.” _
Moreover, he apparently stuck
his neck out rather crudely in
making a personal attack-upon
the very person who, by per-
sistently impugning his col-
leagues, had caused the Par-
liamentary party to pass a reso-
lution forbidding these attacks
in public. Immediately the
initiative passed to Mr. Bevan,
who softly turned the other
cheek and sweetly cooed: “I
have always made it a rule
never to make personal attacks
on any of ,my colleagues.”
Now, Mr. Morrison is no hot-
head, but the shrewdest tac-
tician and ablest campaigner on
either side of the House. He
knew what he was doing and
also what he was letting himself
in for. Did Mr. Attlee connive?
Mr. Morrison personally has
nothing to lose. The trade-union
leaders and the middle-of-the-
roaders have long been pressing
for firmer action against the
Bevanites. These factors are
much less important than the
practical considerations that the
old campaigner has to face. If
he is to engineer a victory for
Labor at the next general elec-
tion he must strive to capture
those marginal seats. And he
can never hope to do this while
the Tories have such a valuable
election asset as Mr. Bevan.
Shifting Sands
Aside from Mr. Morrison’s
rather anxious farsightedness,
there are no signs of a pending
election. With an Opposition so
riven by muddle and dissension
the Government is having a
reasonably straghtforward time.
The Commercial Television Bill,
perhaps, is landing it into rather
troubled waters and consider-
able problems of draughtsman-
ship. But Mr. Macmillan’s
scheme to provide houses on the
cheap has been applauded both
for what it offers (mortgages at
low deposits for the wage-earner)
and what it saves (subsidies on
council dwellings).
The date for the next general
election would seem to depend
upon the personal inclinations of
Sir Winston Churchill. It is said
that he,is unlikely to undertake
another term. A strong rumor
is about to the effect that he will
retire when the Queen has
settled down after her return.
This would mean an election
later in the year. On the other
hand, the Budget and the quiet
determination of the Conserya-
tives to carry out their pro-
gramme suggest that the present
Parliament will run its natural
course at least into 1955, its
fourth year.
Certainly, on tactical grounds,
an election this autumn would
be to the advantage of the Con-
servatives. It would follow the
Labor party’s September con-
ference, which, save only a
miracle, promises to be the
wildest ever. Within the Labor
party there are, too, other de-
bilitating stresses and strains.
Members are divided, roughly
half-and-half, over the rearma-
meftt of Western Germany. In
the H-bomb debate there were
68 dissentients to official policy ;
and in this number were three
junior Whips, two of whom re-
fused to resign and one who
afterwards relented. A number
of Labor M.P.’s have been to
Parils and ostentatiously dis-
credited their party’s policy.
Too much attention, perhaps,
is being paid to Mr. Sevan’s
goings-on, but, whatever may
happen to him, it is certain that
the catchpenny stufj he stands
for will persist. His lieutenant,
Mr. Harold Wilson, has stepped
into his place on the Shadow
Cabinet with the forthright
qualification that he unashamedly
holds the same views.
Thanks to the Yanks
“The Teahouse of the August
Moon” is an American play
that has anticipated its Pulitzer
award by a warmly successful
opening at Her Majesty’s
theatre. It is a gentle satire
upon Congressional didacticism,
demahcracy by remote-control
and the American “way of life.”
The chief interest lies in the
revelation that Americans not
only enjoy making fun of them-
selves but carry it off with such
brilliant subtlety. There can be
no surer counter to anti-
Americanism than this joyous,
self-quizzing fantasy.
An indoctrinated but over-
anxious Colonel is responsible
for the democratic welfare of
Okinawa. He is joined by Cap-
tain Fisby, a conscientious but
less than brilliant soldier, whom
he assigns to Tobiki, a remote
village. Fisby, armed with the
massive, all-embracing Plan
“B,” sets out, accompanied by
Sakini, the incorrigible interpre-
ter. From the start Plan “B”
is doomed. So is Fisby. Tobi-
kians live happily in a state of
anarchy so geqial yet resolute
that a Cecil Rhodes would have
fared no better. Fisby finds
himself intimidated by presents,
even to a Geisha girl whom he
positively does not want. His
intended school (pentagon-
shaped) becomes a teahouse in
Which the Geisha instructs the
newly-formed Ladies’ League
for Democratic Action in
Oriental haute couture. Well-
laid schemes for encouraging
indigenous handicrafts fail com-
pletely' but, thanks to American
business sense and a clamorous
market among the occupational
troops, the local bootlegging in-
dustry becomes so thriving as to
dislocate the island’s economy.
Fisby mildly goes native. A
psychiatrist who comes to inves-
tigate quickly follows suit. There
is a showdown when the per-
plexed Colonel bursts in upon
a ceremonial party, and a
demonstrative twist to the plot
which is, perhaps, more sensa-
tional than effective.
So long as the conflict pre-
vails between well-meaning
bureaucracy and the Tobikians’
do-as-we-please attitude, the
play is sheer delight. The assi-
milations of local color are less
successful. Robert Lewis’s pro-
duction has wit, style and razor-
edge aptness, but loses some
effect from the current theatri-
cal fashion of deliberate vague-
ness,
Judging from the exotic names
of the dramatis persona , the
Casting-director has been busy
combing the Asian clubs for
“ tVDes » Thj s results in some
ly P cs ' , r llB s ” 8 *.
principals Ve excehent. U John
BuThX’s Colonel is a iwo-way
character of authority and im-
portance. Chin Yu gives a hai
faced delicacy to Lotos Blos-
som William Sylvester brings
a wide range of emotion to the
hapless Fisby. And Eli Wallach,
a comedian of exceptional talent.
„„ rrip „ thp n r av as the
Ko-ko-like Sakini who is chorus
as weli as major-domo.


QUEENSLAND
\
* 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Biverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: B. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman) l J. W. Fletcher, O.E.E. (Vice-Chairman); B, Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.; Cecil Brenan. \
Manager: C. A. Bradfield. Consultant: H. W. Herbert.
Assistant Manager; C. D. Wrigley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
TN the wool-broking, pastoral-finance,
-■ stock- and station-agency and mer-
chandising business in Victoria and
southern N. S. Wales for the last 65 years,
Younghusband’s has grown apace over
the last nine of them, which covers the
greatest boom ever experienced in the
trade. To help finance still further expan-
sion of the. undertaking, those on the
register at April 23 were offered 350,000
new £1 ords. at par, two for five, pay-
able in full on application May 21. The
, issue will lift paid capital to £1,225,000
or nearly double the figure of five years
ago. Excepting 1953, when 8 p.c. was
paid, shareholders have had a steady 10
p.c. over the last half-dozen years, sweet-
ened with a 2\ p.c. bonus in 1951 and
again last term. On £1,225,000 of capital
10 p.c. would call for £17,854 less profit
than was available for distribution for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts.
Subject to the course of seasons, prices
and costs, which are the three main fac-
tors affecting this class of business, the
market now looks upon the co. as a 10
p.c. proposition, and prices the f.-p. £1
shares at 275. to Return 7.4 p.c., or 8.8 p.c.
so long as last term’s 12£ p.c. distribution
continues. Rights to the new shares sold
around 6s. 3d, while they were available.
Including the new issue, net tangible cover
is 28s. 6d, So shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) would need
to turn in 7 p.c. to cover 10 p.c, on capital
alone.
Australia’s wool cheque on the 1953-54
clip will be second-best in the history of
the trade. Comparative figures for the first
10 months of the last four, seasons are;
10 Mths. Bales Total Average
April 30, Sold. Proceeds. Per Bale.
1951 .. 3,041.731 £568,429.949 £lB6 17 7
1952 .. 2,904,148 263.510,256 90 14 9
1953 .. 3,159,161 328,136,382 103 17 5
1954 .. 3,271,292 335,232,138 102 9 6
The improvement of £7,095,756 in total
receipts to April 30 last was the result of
a heavier clip and maintenance of high
prices, thanks to yet another good season
and strong demand. And growers got
another windfall of £14.7 million, making
the total £80.5 million to date, on account
of J.O. transactions. A final distribution
of nearly £l2 million is to be paid before
June 30, 1955.
During the 12 months to March 31,
1954, the co. received 119,663 bales (down
6190 bales), but put an extra 14,975 bales
under the hammer, reducing the carry-
forward to 4380 bales ;
TIT , „ ~ Exes. p.c.
Wool Sold, Gross of Gross
Bales. Profit.* Exes., etc. Profit.
1950 .. 124,411 £559,595 £461,289 82.4
19 f* '• 114 >H2 962.018 793,775 82.5
1952 .. 129.7,37 857,987 761,130 88.7
1953 .. 119.343 824,310 739,580 89.7
1954 134,318 961,765 807,911 84.0
After providing for bad and doubtful debts, etc.
To what extent, if any, the livestock and'
merchandising departments contributed
to the improvement of £137,455 in gross
profit is not ascertainable for the pub-
lished figures. Of the growth of £68,331
in exes., etc., £29,000 was on account of
provision for taxation (£110,000) and
£6791 allowance for depreciation
(£29,161). The steadying of wage and
other operating costs helped the net
result, too.
After sending £13,500 (up £2000) to
staff funds, the net amount available for
distribution was £67,124 stronger at
£140,354:
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) , nQ „ 97 079
Written off goodwill, £l5OO J 109 327 * 972
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. 92,306 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) 999 . aft IQ ,
Written off goodwill, £16,584 j 1 3 . 22 - 2 436,194
1951.. 158,243 12* p.c.=109,375 48,868 485,062
1952.. 88,857 10 ~ ~- 87.500 7 ,, Q
Written off goodwill. £lOOOl 357 485,419
1953.. 73,230 8 p.c. = 70,000 3,230 488,649
1954.-140,354 12* ~ ~109,375 30,979 519,628
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
The £140,354 was equal to 16 p.c. on the
£875,000 of capital employed as against
8.3, 10.2, 18.1, 14.8 and 10.7 p.c. back to
1949. A year ago the chairman pointed
out that prudence called for recognition
of the extraordinary conditions obtaining
of recent years, and for some provision
for the future in anticipation that such
conditions cannot continue indefinitely.
This provision is made before writing
gross profits into the published accounts,
and is unlikely to have been skimped last
term.
Balance-sheet pointers to the co.’s ex-
panding activity are the year’s net addi-
tions to premises and plant (up £102,374)
and to advances, etc. (up £183,155);
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ~ £875,000 £875,000 £875,000
Reserves .. .. 485,419 488.649 519,628
Creditors, etc. ~ 1,924,154 2,286,905 2,320,472
Tax reserve .. 73,000 81,000 110,000
Staff fund .(. 16,500 20,000 24,500
Final div. .. 43.750 43,750 74,375
£3,417,823 £3,795,304 £3,923,975
Premises and plant 546,277 615,044 717,418
Merchandise .. 224,122 84,667 30,751
Advances, etc. .. 1,508,090 1,405,075 1,588,230
Cash, etc. .. 1,139,334 1,690,519 1,587,576
£3,417,823 £3,795,304 £3,923,975
The sharp contraction in the merchandise
figure over the last couple of years sug-
gests that the board has decided not to
push this section of the business. The
items creditors, etc. (up £33,567) and cash,
etc. (down £102,943 on account of the
growth in fixed assets) are partly inter-
related because of wool transactions cur-
rent at balancing date.
As for the coming clip, it is too early
yet to say what seasonal conditions are
likely to be, but demand is expected to
remain strong, and no heavy drop in
prices is anticipated. Costs are partly
interwoven with Government policy, and
therefore with election results.
•
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
A FTER a run of post-war prosperity
unequalled since the boom of the
1920’5, the wine trade ran into a sticky
patch and reversal of fortune last year.
Production of wine in N. S. Wales rose
from 2.5 million gallons for the year to
June 30, 1939, to 5.4 million gallons for
the 12 months to mid-1952, thanks
mainly to the growth in local consump-
tion, which accounted for over 84 p.c. of
the 1952 figure as against 65 p.c. in 1939.
Last term there was a drop of over 22
p.c. in production, and a sharper fall in
consumption, while sales of brandy on
both local and export markets contracted
abruptly, too. At the same time the price
of grapes remained high, and so did
operating costs.
For Caldwell’s, which has been col-
lecting champion ribbons and medals for
its products since the 1880’s, trading for
the 12 months to December 31 last
resulted in a loss of £8717, first thing of its
kind since 1931:
, Dividends x To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,238 7,464 19,744
1947.. 27,587 7.5 „ 7* ~ 11,424 16,163 35,907
1948.. 36,190 8 „ 8 „ 12,186 24,004 59,911-
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 69,911
1949.. 29,967 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 18,254 11,713 81,624
1950.. 26,809 8 „ 10 ~ 18,254 8,555 90,179
Unexplained addition, £5144 .. .. 95,323
1951.. 28,881 8 & 5 „ 10 „ 22,500 6,381 101,704
1952. . 27,563 8 & 5 ~ 10 „ 22,500 5,£63 106,767
From tax reserve, £7OOO .. ..113,767
Loss.
1953.. 8,717 6.2 & sp.c. 4 p.c. 12,180 92.570
t After deducting goodwill (now £26,000).
The ords., which had received a steady
10 p.c. for the four years to 1952, were
handed an interim 4 p.c. in November
last, but no final div., which suggests that
the outlook brightened toward the close
of accounts. The year’s trading loss was
mainly offset by transfer of £7OOO from
the tax reserve, reducing it to £40,000,
all but £lO,OOO of which is expected to
be gobbled by assessments, yet to be
received, to the end of 1951. Recent tax-
concessions to wine-producers will relieve
the co. of income-tax liability entirely for
1952, and result in substantial benefits for
the years 1953 to 1959.
The drop in turnover was mainly
responsible for the year’s loss, as the
following comparison of p. and 1. figures
clearly shows;
• 1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit .. .. £155,272 £138,640 £89,832
Exes 86,684 89,230 93,330
Depreciation .. 6,785 5,258 5,219
Tax allowance .. .. 32,922 16,589
Total .. .. £126,391 £111,077 £98,549
Net profit .. .. 28.881 27,563 8,717*
* Loss.
The fall in sales is now claimed to have
been arrested, and trading is said to be
“back to normal.” The co., which owns
a number of licensed leasehold and other
properties in and around Sydndy, is
putting fresh vigor into a sales campaign,
and a recently-established Melbourne
agency is expected to soon give a satis-
factory account of itself.
But at what levels consumption and
costs are likely to settle down are any-
body’s guess until the Federal elections
on May 29 are out of the way. The co.’s
Yenda winery and distillery, which are
among the most up-to-date in the Com-
monwealth, expect to more than double
the intake of grapes, etc., during the 1954
season. Much, therefore, will depend upon
whether the price to be paid for the
grapes falls or not. Stocks at the co.’s
bulk-cellars at Camperdown, near Sydney,
look like increasing.
Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction;
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953..
Pref. .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 160,000 160,000 160,000
Reserves .. ... 101,704 106,767 92,870
Overdraft .. .. 13,326 75,512 60,578
Creditors .. .. 32,911 61,074 64,623
Tax provision .. .. 45,000 47,000 40,000
Staff funds .. .. 10,215 11,673 12,118
Final divs 12,850 12,850 2,530
£476,006 £574,876 £632,719
Freeholds .-. .. 158,227 181,833 184,334
Leaseholds ~ ~ 31,943 31,118 30,393
Plant 48,021 46,098 44,549
Stocks 1897132 275,518 217,099
Debtors . . .. 46,683 39,255 65,366
Cash, etc 1,700 1,054 978
£476,006 £574,876 £532,719
A reduction of £58,419 in stocks was
accompanied by a cut of £14,934 in the
overdraft and expansion of £16,111 in
debtors’ balances—the latter movement
suggests that trade looked up toward the
close of accounts. The slip in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£93,600) was
£14,118 ; the ratio of liquids to liabilities
remained steady at about 1.5 to 1,
The year’s loss surprised the market,
which abruptly shortened the price for
the f.-p. £1 ords. from 265. 6d. at end
of April to 19s. last week. At the lower
figure the return is 4.2 p.c. on last term’s
4 p.c. distribution, or 6.3 p.c, on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The 5 p.c. prefs. at 16s. 6d.
yield 6.1 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£6 Is. Id. fives and 31s. lid. ords. The
8 p.c. prefs,, which are subject to the
outmoded N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, seldom appear on ’Change.
South Australian Brewing Co.
UUTTH one eye on the co.’s past per-
formances and the other on its
present and growing strength the market
expresses its confidence in the future of
the undertaking and of benefits to come
by pricing the f.-p. ss. shares at 11s. 2d.
(10. 3d. a year ago) to return only 4.5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for no more than 5.4 p.c. on
his money thus counts on a 12 p.c. dis-
tribution, or other benefits. Net tangible
cover is visibly 7s. 7d. per share.
The co. enjoys a lion’s portion of the
trade in its home State as well as in the
thirsty and prosperous mining centre
of Broken Hill, over the border in
N. S. Wales. Under pressure of growing
population, expanding industrial activity
and a high level of employment at rising
wage-rates the business expanded rapidly
during the last few years. To help finance
purchase and erection of additional hotel
properties and improvement of old ones,
as well as the extension and modernisa-
tion of plant, shareholders put up
£744,185 for fresh capital at par since
June, 1950, the last half of it just as the
books closed in 1953. And the leap of
£33,523 in declared net earnings for the
12 months to February 28, 1954, sug-
gests, among other things, that profitable
employment was quickly found for much
of the new capital;
Added to Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1947.. 93,987 10 p.c. = 72,208 21,779 407,114
1948.. 90,900 10 „ „ 72,208 18,692 425,806
1949.. 91,967 10 „ „ 72,208 19,759 445,565
1950.. 92,270 10 „ „ 72,208 20,062 465,627
Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 .. 660,308
1951.. 133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952.. 127,944 10 „ ~ 108,312 19,632 706,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953.. 147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 89,110 733.230
To staff fund. £lO,OOO 723,230
1954.. 180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
The £180,945 of profit claimed was writ-
ten after making unspecified provisions
for taxation, depreciation and for “special
demands on resources in the immediate
future for rehabilitating freehold pro-
perties.” It was equal to 12.4 p.c.
on average capital as against 13.6,
11.8, 12,3, 12.8 and 12.7 p.c. back
to 1949. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
which has been an annual event ever
since 1919, excepting the seven slump
years to 1937, when the average distribu-
tion was 7 p.c. (lowest 6 p.c.).
Increased capacity of the brewery, etc.,
enabled the co. to fully meet the demand
for its products, a state of affairs which
should continue indefinitely, subject to
unforeseen circumstances, the chairman
says. This and the announcement that
the co. has abandoned the proposal to
build a new hotel at Finsbury might mean
that shareholders are unlikely to be asked
to put up much, if any, fresh capital
for some time, at any rate.
Attention is therefore switched to pros-
pects of further increases in net earnings.
Under existing conditions these prospects
are encouraging. There are good reasons
to believe that last term’s profit was con-
servatively stated, and it is doubtful
whether all the assets represented by last
term’s capital outlay are yet making their
full contribution to the pool. Full em-
ployment and expanding population,
spurred by a vigorous immigration policy,
augur well for consumption of beer. And
equally encouraging are the present com-
parative steadiness of wage and other
operating costs, including prices for
hops, barley, malt, sugar and other brew-
ing ingredients. Nevertheless, until the
Federal elections are out of the way
there are many imponderables.
Since 1950 the book-value of plant, etc.,
has increased nearly eightfold and that
of freeholds, which include hotel pro-
perties, by over 69 p.c,:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital . . £1,083,120 £1,083,120 £1,466,265
Reserves . . .. 694,120 723,230 759,234
Share suspense ac/t 207,015
Overdraft .. 25,242 200,722 91,646
Creditors* , . 499,463 632,659 697,188
Staff fund .. 15,000 25,000 25,000
Final div, .. 54,156 54,166 72.733
£2,371,101 £2,925,902 £3,112,066
Freeholds .. 1,132,478 1,238,742 1,315,931
Plant, etc. .. 480,446 652,064 889,525
Stocks . . .. 345,985 380,382 491.479
Book debtsf .. 322,428 863,799 360,568
Advances . . ~ 88,268 82,740 53,193
Cash .. .. 1,496 208,225 1,370
£2,371,101 £2.925.902 £3,112,066
* Includes taxation. + Includes shareholdings.
Last term’s £383,145 of fresh capital, to-
gether with surplus earnings and an extra


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNIT
FOB SALE
“Alternator, comprising Gardner
Diesel 60 Horse Power Engine,
direct coupled to 50 K.Y.A. alter-
nator. Fitted with self-starter; suit-
able for large farm. Standard supply
voltage and frequency. Excellent con-
dition. £950. Inspect at 113 Palmer
Street, Bast Sydney. Aston Electrical
Products Pty. Ltd. Phone FA7057.”
MOBILE WORKSHOP TRUCK
Ideal for station mechanic. Thames 3 ton chassis
miles) with steel panelled body; wood floor; large perspex wiindo
in roof; quick-action, heavy-duty, folding steps; # P
40in. wide access; mounted with as new Armstrong Siddeley 14 11. •
Diesel, direct-coupled to 9 K.Y.A., 3 phase 415 volt alterimtor
complete with silencer, automatic voltage control, meters, switch
panel, etc. v
Cab fitted with cross bubbles for levelling—steel levelling ramps
for 3 wheels.
Inside measurements of body, 7ft. wide, lift, long, 7ft. 4in. hea
room. Registered until 29th January, 1955.
Just the thing for mounting lathe, welder, grinder, etc,, for self-
contained mobile workshop.
This unit is as new, was made up to conduct experiment now
concluded. „
Price £2,600 or offer.
Apply “WORKSHOP,” C/o BOX 580, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Missing Friend
TO HERBERT JOHN LINDSAY formerly
of Toora Victoria Farmer. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ELIZABETH
KATHLEEN LINDSAY has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the Fifteenth June 1954 the case
may proceed In your absence and you may
be -ordered to pay costs If you intend to
defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the
Twenty-sixth June 1954. —SKINNER &
HART, Solicitors, Yarram, Victoria.
SHARE ANALYSIS FOR INVESTORS
Before any shares in a Company are bought or sold on the
Sydney or Melbourne Stock Exchanges an investor should
know the following facts: N
(1) Whether the Company’s Earning Power is growing,
static or declining.
(2) Whether the Internal Financial Position of a Company
is strong, moderate or weak.
(3) Whether the Company’s Dividend Policy is sound or
strained (from an investor’s point of view).
(4) Whether the Company is in a position to declare
benefits presently.
(5) Whether there is strong or moderate market support
for the Company’s shares.
(6) Whether the present market price of the Company s
shares are relatively reasonable or overpriced.
The answers to questions (1) to (4) are to be found by
Security Analysis of a Company’s Balance Sheets from 1946
to 1953/54 (if in operation during this period). Questions
(5) and (6) are answered on the basis of a close study
of the Company’s market price movements which are charted
on a weekly basis over a three-year period and contrasted
with the price movements of other companies in the same
industry. ,
Write or Telephone for Appointment without Obligation. The
technique of Scientific Investment is fully explained before any
transactions are made.
TRISTAN L. HEARST, Ph.B., M.A. (Econ.),
Investment Counsellor,
Suite 36, 3rd Floor, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’PHONE BW 6964
Amalgamated Retailers Limited
Issue of £1 9 500j000
Registered
Mortgage
Debentures v 7
Interest Bate: 6 Per Cent. Cnrrency: 15 Years Prlee of Issae: Par ( * 100)
ISSUE NOW OPEN
OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The net proceeds of this issue will be devoted
to financing a programme of continued ex-
pansion of the business and activities of the
company and its important subsidiaries in the
fields of retail trade and associated finance.
ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
Messrs. Flack & Flack report profits of the
company and its subsidiaries before providing
for interest on existing or proposed debentures
or for income tax payable on the profits of
the group, at £533,102 for 13 months ended
31st July, 1953.
The report of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows
total assets of £7,400,292.
COVER FOR CAPITAL AND INTEREST
The Trust Deed securing the issue of de-
bentures requires that in the event of further
issues the total amount of debentures issued
must not exceed the ratio of £lOO of debentures
to £250 of total assets, including share capital
issued since the last balance date. Adding
capital issued since 31st July, 1953 (including
the amount still uncalled), total assets are
£8 884,558, which is equivalent to £341/15/11
of total assets for £lOO of debenture capital.
The Trust Deed calls for a minimum three
times cover of debenture interest before
further debentures may be issued. Theannual
rate of profit for 12 months in 1953 was suf
flcient to cqver debenture interest 3.27 times.
VALUATIONS OF PROPERTIES .
A renort bv L. J. Hooker & Co. Ltd. places
a totalvalue of all properties of the company
It £2155,676. which is £834,881 in excess of
book value.
GROWTH OF BUSINESS ,
Total value of business of the company has
increased from around £3,500,000 in 1948 to
£11,250,000 (13, months) in 1953.
recent results . ~ ...
The report of the managing director, Mr-
J. R. Walton, states that for 37 weeks of the
current year to 15th April the combined
operating profit (after allowing for all expenses
including interest payments, but before Pro-
visions and Taxation) was £607,080. xnis
compares with £392,761 for the same period
of the previous year. It is confidently expected
fLtthfs operating profit will exceed £BOO,OOO
Walton anticipates tiiat the volume of
business for this financial yeax will exceed
£16,000.000. ,
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Norman Bede Rydge, 01010 Avenue, Vaucluse (Chairman).
John Robert Walton, Cherry Street, Wamwee, (Managing
John Thomas Walton, 29 Kambala Road, BeUevue Hdl (
David Cyril Alexander, 54A Telegraph Road, Pymble (Director and Secre ary).
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Bums Philp Trust Company Limited, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Bank of New South Wales.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SYDNEY
Ralph W. King and Yuill, US Pitt Street, Sy ney.
Applications .
Applications for debentures of this issue will be
received only on one of the forms of application
accompanying a copy of the prospectus.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of appli-
cation may be obtained from any Branch of:—
The National Bank of Australasia limited
Bank of New South Wales
Members of the Stock Exchange of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Launceston.
Applications must be lodged with the bankers for
the issue and may be lodged through a member of
a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions w , „
Payment for debentures may be made either in full
on application or 10 per cent, on application and the
remainder by instalments.
SSK
South Australia and Tasmania.
Al The“ inimum subscription upon which the directors
ma^e P bo C a e rd d ot dl S will proceed
to allotmlnt dlily as from 10th May. 1954.
Stock Exchange Listing
Application will be made by the JOT the
Sydney and Hobart.
Registers of Debentures
maintained in Melbourne.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
requirements ol Seotlou 137 ol the Oomuimies Art o, the Stateol B«r Sootti Wjjhjy. not been Mr nU
req with in the above advertisement, which is an abridgment of the prospect ;
M 1,529 from sundry creditors,
. tc., went mainly into plant (up
£237,461), stocks (up £111,147)
and freeholds (up £77,189) and in
reducion of the overdraft (down
£109,076). It is difficult to say
exactly what the outside debt
amounts to, because provision
for contingencies, as well as for
taxation, is lumped with trade
creditors in the published ac-
counts.
Last term 160 contracts for
alterations and renovations
(mainly of hotel bedroom and
bathroom accommodation) were
completed, and a further 57 are
nearing completion. Reconstruc-
tion of one of the co.’s Adelaide
hotels is also to be put in hand
during the current term.
McDonnell & East, (Bris.)
CONTRARY to general experi-
ence in the trade, this
Brisbane draper, whose shop is
in George-street, adjacent to the
main business centre, disclosed a
sharp contraction of £10,232 in
net earnings last term:
r Dividends \
Prel. To Be- Be-
Jan.,Profit.B p.c. Ord.* serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. & & &
’50..34,099 720 8 = 14,882 18,497 148,912
Reserves disappear, £10,524.. 188,388
’51..50,815 720 10 = 18,603 31,492 169,879
Revaluation assets, £53,348.. 223,227
Reserves disappear, £18,085.. 210,14*.
’52-28,449 720 8 = 15,846 11,883 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528.. 210,497
’53-29,823 720 8 = 22,882 6,221 216,718
Reserves disappear, £9182 ..207,536
’54-19,591 720 8 = 22,882 203,525
* Includes special payments to directors
to 1951.
The £19,591 of profit claimed,
lowest for over a decade, was
enough to pay the small pref.
div, and show 6.6 p.c. on the
£286,027 of ord. capital as
against 10.2, 15,5, 29.1, 19.4 and
18.6 p.c. back to 1949. Still, the
div. was kept at 8 p.c., though it
called for £4Oll more profit than
was claimed.
Chief troubles appear to have
been the slimming of margins,
sluggishness of turnover and
stubbornness of costs, due in part
to the flood of imports and diffi-
culties to which it gave rise. The
following comparison of p. and
1. figures makes plain what hap-
pened :
Year, Gross
Jan. 31, Profit. Exes. Profit.
1950 .. £191,615 £157,516 £34,099
1951 .. ' 239,900 189,085 50,815
1952 .. 267,174 238,725 28,449
1953 .. 268,118 238,295 29,823
1954 .. 255,888 236,297 19,591
Last term there was a slip of
4.5 p.c. (£12,230) in gross profits
and a saving of only 1.6 p.c.
(£1998) in exes., due to a cut of
£6OOO in provision for taxation
(£9000). According to Govern-
ment statistics, retail sales for
Queensland as a whole increased
by 8.5 p.c. for 1953 as against
5.6 p.c. for 1952. At each of the
last two balancing-dates, stocks
were reported in q sound condi-
tion and they appeared at cost or
replacement value whichever was
the lower.
During and since the war the
board has followed a cautious
financial policy, keeping the div.
moderate and ploughing back
large sums into the business.
Over the last decade divs. aver-
aged 7.8 p.c., profits totalled
£337,413, and £159,401 net was
added to reserves, raising them
to £203,525, while shareholders
put up £114,000 of fresh capital
at par a couple of years ago,
making the total on the register
£295,027, of which £9OOO carries
a cumulative 8 p.c. Thus share-
holders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) need now turn
in only 4.7 p.c. to cover an all-
round 8 p.c, on capital alone.
Last term £10,521 net was
added to the book-value of plant,
£12,250 to stocks and £6974 to
debtors’ balances:
Paid capital— 1951. 1953. 1954.
& £ £
p re f .. 9.000 9,000 9,000
Ord '.. .. 285,904 286,027 286,027
Reserves .. 222,024 216,718 203,525
Mortfiraeres .. 903 903 903
Overdraft .. 217.731 117.212 150,143
Creditors .. 41,575 43,697 73,105
Tax provision.. 79,062 55,913 36,681
Final divs. .. 9,125 13,591 13,591
865.324 743,061 772,875
Md. Plant. m6U mul
Stocks .. .. 552.925 419,308 431,558
Book debts •. 88,342 98,046 105,020
Cash, etc. .. 2,446 2.166 2,235
865.324 743,061 772,875
To help meet the outlay and
reduce tax commitments, etc.,
£32,931 was added to the over-
draft and £29,408 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The
contraction in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£264,470) was
£23,734.
Some improvement in net
earnings is a reasonable expecta-
tion, and the market expresses its
confidence in maintenance of the
8 p.c. div. by pricing the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 265. (235. 6d. early in
1953) to return 6.1 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is 345. 3d, The well-
protected prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Western Mining Corp. Group
Western Mining Corp., the
big Melbourne-controlled hold-
ing and prospecting co, (paid
capital £698,588 in ss. shares),
netted £189,255 and paid Is. a
share for the year to March 31,
1953. Accounts to end March
I’ast are not yet available, but
two divs of 6d. each were paid
during the year, and some of
the operating cos. in the group
have not yet developed full earn-
ing-capacity. The co.’s ss. shares,
which fluctuated between 17s. 9d.
and 13s. in the market during
1953, recently sold at 14s. 6d.
Production figures of the five
main operating cos. in the group
show an aggregate output of
228,0450 z. (up 39,6780 z.) fine
gold for the year to March 31,
1954:
Central Norseman (50 p.c.).*
Grade,
Ore Gold, Per
Year. Milled, Fine y Ton.
March 31, Tons. Ounce. D ' v r , 0
1952 .. 149,088 49,091 6.59
1953 .. 161,444 78,591 9.74
1951 . . 155,314 77,410 9.97
G.M. of Kalgooblib (30 p.c.).*
1952 . . 170,770 47,018 5.51
1953 . . 173,789 49,472 5.66
1954 . . 196,471 56,916 5.79
New Coolgardib (62 p.c.).*
1952 .. . 53,156 26,259 9.88
1953 . . 65,029 34,956 10.75
1954 . . 68,393 32,000 9.36
Gt. Western Consolidated (14 p.c.).
IQCO
1953 . . 119,187 14,128 2.37
1954 . . 420,129 51,143 2.43
Central Victoria Dredging (50 p.c.).
Gold, Grains,
c.y. oz. c.y.
1952- .. 2,281,480 10,028 2.11
1953 .. 2,282.520 11.220 2.36
1954 .. 2,778,600 10,576 1.83
* Proportion of share capital held by
W.M.C.
Central Norseman, whose ss.
shares fetch around 325., was
again the star performer, and
looks like remaining so. It paid
50 p.c. for the 1953 term, and
sent out an interim 30 p.c. in
December last. Recent develop-
ments in the lower levels of the
Phoenix and upper levels of the
Princess Royal leases have dis-
closed a lot of better than run-
of-mine ore. The shaft on the
Phoenix is down 3556 ft. and on
the Princess Royal 1238 ft.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
which paid 12% p.c. for the 1953
term, has since handed out three
9d. divs. (total 11% p.c.) up to
May 7. The co. bought the
leases, plant, etc., of its next-
door neighbor, Paringa, for
£85,000 in 1952, and the dia-
mond-drill has met with some
high values (21.3dwt.) in a new
make of ore on No. 8 (Paringa)
level. The co.’s 10s. shares are
selling around 17s. 6d.
New Coolgardie, whose main
shaft has reached a depth of
1002 ft., is still in the develop-
ment stage. In the Barbara lease
ore averaging 28.9dwt. over a
width of 44 inches and for a
length of 57ft. has shown up on
No. 6 level. And some better-
than-average-grade stuff has been
disclosed in the Callion and
Bayley’s leases. The co. paid 6d.
per 10s. share in July, 1953. The
scrip is fetching around 9s. 6d.
Great Western Consolidated,
which hasn’t yet got fully into
its stride, expects to show a
small surplus for the year to
March 31 last. The bulk of the
ore treated last term continued to
come from the open cut, where
recoveries have been below ex-
pectations. During the year the
main shaft on the Copperhead
lease was sunk a further 202 ft.
to a depth of 1248 ft. Much will
depend upon how this mine
opens up underground. The
co.’s 10s. shares recently sold at
6s. 3d. each.
Most disappointing unit in the
group is Central Victoria Dredg-
ing, which has two big machines
in operation but hasn’t yet paid
a div. The market prices the
co.’s shares at 4s. 3d., or there-
co.’s 10s. shares at 4s. 3d., or
thereabouts.


MELBOURNE
Women's Letters
Ocelot, leopard, Persian-lamb and
Scotch-mole (the last-named seen in a
scarlet cardigan banded with grey jersey
and worn with tartan slacks for cold
evenings around the fire) were seen in a
fashion-show at George’s for the Lord
Mayor’s Fund. Generous magyar sleeves,
dropped shoulders, deep cape and sailor-
collars, the barrel jacket and cocoon
wrap-around silhouette were features of
the new season’s designs.
Five superb and luxurious mutation
minks —sapphire, platinum, gunmetal,
pastel and topaz —were the highlights of
the collection. A glorious white mink
stole with the new sling-back cut was an-
other beautiful fur shown. White mink
was made popular by Queen Elizabeth,
who chose this fur for her evening wrap.
Most magnificent mink coat shown—it
should be ; it costs close on £3OO0 —was
of the natural ranch variety. The pelts
were arranged in unbroken horizontal
lines from the collar to the wide hem-
line. The batwing sleeves were wide
enough to form a melon-shaped muff. A
breathtaking stole combined two luxury
furs —white Russian ermine, and sable
from the same country. Another attrac-
tive stole was of ocelot lined with black
broadcloth, which could be worn with
either side showing.
As was to be expected, attractively-
gowned women were in the audience at
George’s. The Lord Mayor (Cr, R. H.
Solly), who confessed he was attending
his first fashion-show, performed the
opening ceremony, accompanied by Mrs.
Solly. She chose a pale grey- and pink-
patterned satin brocade gown, worn under
a full-length dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
John George, wife of the managing-
director of George’s, looked expensive in
an oyster-grey satin ensemble, the long,
slim skirt opening in front to show a
froth of pleated tulle topped with a
matching fitted jacket.
Reta Findlay, who did the commentary,
wore a sheath ankle-length frock of black
lace, with white ermine stole. Denise
Harlem (with her mother, Mrs. David
Harlem) was in a shocking-pink jersey
frock with the round neckline embroid-
ered with \yhite beads ; Mrs. A. G. Silk
and Mrs. Colin Norman were together;
another twosome were Mrs. Leith Crow
and Mrs. Bernaldo. Mrs. Boris Koski
draped sables across: the shoulders of her
grey taffeta frock; Mrs. Philip Dare’s
black satin frock had the bodice em-
broidered with jet to match the trimming
on the fishtail drape of the skirt; Mrs.
Stanley James chose apricot faille, and
Sylvia • Clancy sapphire - blue satin
brocades.
* * *
Musicians and others interested in this
branch of the Arts were at Majella, St.
Kilda-road, for the late-afternoon party
given by the president and committee of
the Victorian Symphony Orchestral Sub-
scribers’ Organisation. Guests-of-honor
were conductor Enrique Jorda and pianist
Jan Smeterlin and his wife. In the
absence of the president, through illness.
Dr. Percy Jones, director of music at
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, did the honors
and welcomed the guests.
Mrs. Smeterlin’s scarlet-satin cocktail
frock was both smart and striking ; she
topped it wtih a hip-length mink jacket.
Mrs. Ewart Chappell, wife of the Vic-
torian A.B.C. manager, wore a grey
tailored suit in which she pinned forget-
me-nots to match her felt cloche in the
same tonings. Notables noted—the Prime
Minister’s brother, Frank Menzies, and
his wife; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Corder,
pianist Vera Bradford (her rust-red beret
worn with a black barathea coat), Dorrie
O’Neill, former concert-manager for the
A.B.C, (resigned from that position to
marry early next month), Jeader of the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra, Bertha
Jorgensen, and Mrs. H. W, Tavener, of
Horsham,
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Gerald Bacon, president of the
American branch of the Red Cross, in-
vited members to her Caulfield home
where, over a cup of tea, they said
good-bye to Mrs. George Uhrich. Mrs.
Bacon selected a simple frock of blue-
grey wool; the guest-of-honor a smart
nigger-brown jacket-suit contrasted with
a citron-yellow beret. Among the guests
—Mrs. J. D. Jacob (who covered her
grey suit with a silver-blue mink stole and
topped them with an emerald-green velvet
hat), Mrs. John Sullivan, Mrs. Laurie
Tewkesbury (off to the U S. for a six-
months visit to her family), Mrs. James
Clark, Mrs. Heathcote Wright (in blue
and black chevron-patterned tweed coat,
worn with a small black velvet hat), Mrs.
Charles Bacon (daughter-in-law of the
hostess), Mesdames Claude Deem and W.
P. Rogers (just returned from the U.S.).
Also Mrs. Arnold Richardson, Mrs.
John Davoren, Mrs. W. R. Cressell
and Mrs. James Clymer.
Here is Sophie Stewart, the brilliant
Scottish actress with a London reputation
who is delighting audiences at the Comedy
Theatre in “Dear Charles,” a gaily sophis-
ticated translation of a French comedy.
This is her second visit to this country;
on her first she gave an impressive
dramatic study in “Edward, My Son.”
Off-stage Sophie is gay, witty and ex-
hilarating to be with; she is also very
happy to have her husband, Ellis Irving,
playing a leading role in “Dear Charles.”
Another distinguished member of Sophie’s
family is J. Henderson Stewart, member
for East Fife and joint Under-Secretary
for Scotland. Allan Studios photo.
At the premiere of “Dear Charles,”
Sophie wore some eye-catching gowns. In
the first act she sweeps on stage wearing
a full-skirted house-coat of bright-yellow
boldly striped in black. Cut cleverly, the
stripes run in various directions, and as
color contrast a large black-and-red
handkerchief peeps out of the pocket in
the skirt. In the next act Sophie (as
Denise Darval, a French authoress)
a very full-skirted frock of pale-pink-
and-beige-checked chiffon under a full-
length pink-beige chiffon coat. In the
final act she wears a sophisticated black
tulle frock, the bodice cut very low and
allied to a voluminous skirt, her headwear
a cap of black velvet with upsoaring
black ospreys for trimming.
Women in the audience gave the star
keen sartorial competition. Lovely
short frocks were worn by Mrs. A. G.
Silk and Mrs. Gladys Myer. The
former’s was of blue-grey satin, with the
entire skirt trimmed with opalescent
cabochon pearls, Mrs. Myer’s was a
sheath frock of lavender-blue lame pat-
terned with spiderwebs of glittering
sequins. Made from a sari of royal-blue
chiffon was the gown worn by Mrs. E. L.
G. Cresswell, the apron-front banded with
gold embroidery. A short full frock of
donkey-brown satin, highlighted with
guipure lace vandyked on the skirt, was
the choice of Mrs. Fred Dennett, and a
short accordion-pleated emerald-green
silk frock was worn by Mrs. H. Jacobsen.
☆V * *
Keeping to the theme of the Edin-
burgh Club, which arranged the premiere
of “Malta Story” at the Astor Theatre,
a piper from the Royal Caledonian
Society piped the Governor and Lady
Brooks into the foyer, where Lady Brooks
was presented with a bouquet by two
tiny kilt-clad girls, Marion Peters and
Patricia Wilson. President of the club
Simon Warrender and his wife, who
is a vice-president, received the Vice-
Regal pair. Also in the official party
were the Lord Mayor (Cr. R. H.
Solly) and his wife, the Mayor and Mayor-
ess of St. Kilda (Cr. and Mrs. W. E.
Dickeson), Dr. Hayworth Watson and
Mrs. Watson, and Mrs. Allan Wynn, who
was in charge of sweets and programmes.
Lady Brooks wore a full-length gown of
garnet-red silk taffeta and* a blue fox
cape, and Mrs. Warrender wore a bal-
lerina frock of black faille and short white
lamb jacket. Mrs. Hamley Wilson, ticket-
secretary, chose a floral taffeta ballerina
frock, Mrs. Jim Peters a short navy faille
' ballerina which had a white embroidered
organdie fichu collar. Her sister, Mrs.
Kevin Coleman, was in white satin.bro-
cade. Mrs. Frank O’Collins (whose hus-
band donated the theatre for the night)
wore an ankle-length frock of dove-grey
brocade. As a result of the night £l5OO
will go to Prince Henry’s Hospital.
SYDNEY
The Opera Ball for 1954, which was
“Eastern” and “masked,” attracted about
250 people to dance at Prince’s and to
admire the headdresses and masks (some
beautiful, some amusing) which were a
feature. The Abominable Snowman was
there, a couple of “Esquires,” a man with
a hat like an atom-bomb and several
houris peering over yashmaks. The pre-
sident of the ball committee, Mrs. E.
Esdaile, got a Tibetan effect with a
turban of white satin, pearls and fur to
match her sheath dress. Mr. and Mrs.
Bruce MacLeod won first prize with their
elaborate silver Balinese headdresses;
Helen Franklin won the special prize for
committee members with her Siamese
costume and mask. Among the guests
were the Ambassador for Germany, Dr.
Walter Hesse, Mrs. Hesse and their
daughter Inge ; Dr. and Madame Robert
Regala, Mr. W. M. Gollan, M.L.A.; Mrs.
C. T. Lorenz, Dr. and Mrs. Lyle
Buchanan, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Bunning,
Miss Doris Fitton, Mr. and Mrs. Mac
Turnbull, Nigel Lovell and Patricia Parr.
☆ ☆ *
At the annual meeting of the Bush Book
Club, held during the week, the president,
Miss Barbara Knox, said that in 1953
the club had had more reader-members
than ever before, and that more and better
books had been sent out than in any pre-
vious year. It is clear that the develop-
ment of the public, library services has in
no way diminished the usefulness of the
club, especially as the ideal of a public
library in every country town and in every
school is a long way from realisation. At
the moment the Bush Book Club especi-
ally wants more books for very young
children (members start asking for books
for their children as soon as they are two,
according to Miss Knox), and also more
up-to-date books for older children. Good
Luck to the Rider and the Martins’ Book
of Aircraft are greatly in demand.
At the meeting Mr. Eugene Goossens
proposed the adoption of the reports. This
was seconded by Miss Joyce Jopling, who
spoke on the work of the Public Library
in Detroit (U.S.A.), where she worked in
the Parents and Teachers’ section for
more than 20 years, in which time she
kept up her subscriptions to the Bush
Book Club and also sent across many
beautiful books.
Barbara Came, daughter of Professor
and Mrs. H. R. Carne, was the only
woman graduate in agriculture at the
recent conferring of degrees at Sydney
University. Barbara is at present engaged
in research work in the breeding of
varieties of clover resistant to rust. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
The marriage of Bernice Bryant, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Bryant,
of Ashfield, to Grant Macleod-Jones,' of
Hurstville, was of special interest—Grant
is the great-grandson of William Macleod,
first managing-director of The Bulletin.
For her marriage Bernice chose a dress of
flounced white tulle trimmed with 280
yards of Valenciennes lsce; her tiered tut
veil flowed from a cbronet of orangy
blossoms. Her brideWaids, Barbara 1
Macleod-Jones and Nancy Brett, wore
dressy of grey nylon-net pink taffeta
and carried pink bouquets 'to match the
flowers in their hair. After the ceremony
at St. John’s, Ashfield, a reception was
held by the bride’s parents at Jonroe,
Ashfield. The bride and bridegroom
(both pharmacists) met when studying at
Sydney University.
☆ ☆ ☆
Snobbery over one’s cookery and the
meals one serves has always been a fea-
ture of social lifp, but the changes which
have taken place in the past few years
deserve a little notice. Once it was
“bought cake” which put a hostess out-
side the pale. Today she is more likely
to cause raised eyebrows and pitying
smiles if she doesn’t mix her salad in a
wooden bowl or cooks rice in the old-
fashioned way instead of the Chinese way.
Orange-juice seems to be quite de rigueur
for breakfast, but tomato-juice is better.
Carrot- or prune-juice, however, will
stamp you as a crank. Coffee and whole-
meal bread increase one’s prestige more
than tea and white bread, whilst a grape-
fruit for breakfast is sanctioned by the
socially-aspiring.
It is considered very s ignorant not to
rub the salad-bowl round with garlic or
to serve lettuce crisp—it should be limp
with oil and whatnot. But shredded cab-
bage may be crisp and is thought quite
sophisticated. Slices of avocado pear in
salads are fashionable, but onions are on
their way out.
Onion-soup, however, is quite the thing,
even if it isn’t the onion-soup that mother
used to make. As likely as not it con-
tains brandy and egg-yolk and is served
as the main dish of the meal.
Safe things to do socially when cook-
ing are to marinate steak in claret, lard
lamb with garlic, add cloves to corn-beef,
a bay-leaf to casseroles and white wine
to chicken.
Peas are about the only safe vegetable
of the old-fashioned type. Green peppers,
red-cabbage and egg-plant are much to
be preferred to pumpkin, parsnips, turnips
or swedes (the last particularly is to be
avoided). Spinach, if creamed and flav-
ored with cinnamon or something of the
sort, and cauliflower are still holding
their own, but only just.
Sweets generally are rather frowned
upon. In fact, in some circles it is con-
sidered quite low-class to have a pen-
chant for trifle or apple-pie. It is much
more distinguished to serve cheese, prefer-
ably gorgonzola, though one may get
away with zabliogne or paw-paw soaked
in sugar and sherry.
An ability to make spaghetti bolognese
is a great asset to the modern hostess who
wishes to succeed socially (spaghetti out
of a tin is becoming quite a social sole-
cism), and she will be well advised to serve
as many meals as she can from ramekins
and earthenware casseroles. If she is in
the habit of washing her salad-bowl, or
dropping a pinch of bicarbonate into the
peas or adding dripping when cooking
bacon and eggs, she had better not let the
neighbors see her doing it, that’s all.
☆ ☆ ☆
The heads of the three Services were
guests-of-honor at the banquet held on
Friday at Prince’s by the" Royal Empire
Society to celebrate Empire Day. Lt.-
General and Mrs. Woodward, Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Air-
Vice-Marshal Walters and Miss Waiters
were welcomed by Mr. W. J. Bradley
and Lady Berryman, who was accom-
panied by Sir Frank Berryman, Mr.-and
Mrs. F. E. Manning, Mr. I. Black, M.L.A.,
Mr. Stilling, Dr. Garnet Halloran, Sir
James Bisset, Mr. and Mrs, Norman
Jenkyn and Miss M. Gillespie. Among
the members of the younger set who
attended were Valerie Barnett in orchid-
net with guipure lace, Zoe Redler in blue
nylon-net, and Ann Rutherford in grey
net over pink. They were escorted by
Alex Redler, Terry Ellerby and Terry
Larkin.
☆ ☆ *
The opening of the new Furlough
House at Narrabeen by the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, on Sunday was attended
by representatives of the Navy, Army and
Air Force; the leader of the Opposition
in the State Parliament, Mr. Vernon
Treatt, and Mrs. Treatt, Mr, R. W. Askin,
M.L.A., and Mrs. Askin ; Mr. J. Fisher
and Mrs. Fisher, Mr. W. C. Wentworth,
M.P., and Mrs. Wentworth, and represen-
tatives of many organisations associated
with the building of this delightful holiday
home for ex-servicemen and their fami-
lies. Colonel R. S. Goward and Mrs.
Goward welcomed the guests.


LIGHTING UNIT
1 0 K.V.A. petrol driven lighting
set. Meadows 15 H.P., water
cooled motor (with I 2 gal. tank)
direct-coupled to 2.40 volt, 50
cycle alternator, complete with
exciter, battery charger, self
starter, volt-, amp- and fre-
quency - meters. Change - over
switch and voltage controller.
The whole mounted on heavy
steel chassis and ready for im-
mediate use. No concrete floor
required. Any trial.
Price £4OO or offer.
Apply “Lighting Set,” Box 40,
P. 0., Hornsby, N.S.W.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 4055 of 1953.
TO ERIC WALTER CARTER late of 2
Gladstone Street Leichhardt. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH ZOE CARTER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4055
of 1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th of June 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
F. E. FISCHER, Solicitor, 183 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE ANDREW GREEN late of
Crows Nest.—TAKE NOTICE that CHRIS-
TINA ELLEN GREEN has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 594 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for 8 years and' upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 13th August 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA—AT GEELONG.
1958 No. 25.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
, Jurisdiction.
IN THE MATTER of the MARRIAGE
ACT 1928 of the State of Victoria and IN
THE MATTER of the MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION ACT of the
Commonwealth of Australia (No. 22 of
1945).
BETWEEN EDNA MAY RICKETTS Peti-
tioner and KEITH ALWYN RICKETTS
Respondent.
TO KEITH ALWYN RICKETTS formerly
O/o Mr. Ivan Keats 70 Brook Street
Ooogee in the State of New South Wales
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE-
NOTICE that your wife EDNA MAY
RICKETTS has instituted Divorce Pro-
ceedings against you on the following
grounds viz. (1) that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
for a period of three years and upwards
(2) ALTERNATIVELY your wife being
resident in Victoria for a period of not
less than one year immediately preceding
the issue of the Petition herein and you
being at all times material domiciled in
the State of Tasmania have without just
cause or excuse deserted your wife for
a period of two years and upwards UN-
LESS you enter an appearance at the
Office of the Deputy Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Geelong on
or before the Thirtieth day of June 1954
and also file an answer in the said office
on or before the Tenth day of July 1954
the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay the costs
thereof—MESSßS. DOYLE & KERR, of
“The Exchange,” Little Malop Street, Gee-
long, and at Terang and 108 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner. '
Public Notice
I, LOUIS VERAS, of Greek nationality,
bom at Ithaca Isl., Ithaca, Greece, resi-
dent 16 years in Australia, now residing
at 292 Glenmore Road, Paddington,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
V
hj
DAVtY
/ /
vtX-’’
:
X
I
Yes, Jack Davey’s lively “Dulux Show” is now really two grand shows m one. All your
comedy favourites are there PLUS the new game “Four In A Row in contestants
can win radio’s most glamorous prize—a flight to almost any place * nthe
with ALL FARES PAID. Don’t miss this super show every Wednesday night at 8 p.m. on
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQUARIE
SERVICE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Goossens-Goossens Concert
In Saturday’s Sydney Town
Hall concert the first Australian
performance of the Tippett con-
certo for double string-orchestra
became a string hen-party, with
several sections of the orchestra
all talking together in different
rhythms, and all to a terse,
invigorating purpose. But
although it was a tribute to
Corelli’s concerto grosso form,
its most profound evocation was
in the adagio, of the way the
old English masters had of tear-
ing the soul out of the lower
strings of a chest of viols.
Leon Goossens played the
Vivaldi oboe concerto in D
minor so beautifully that the
hero was Vivaldi, his tiny
orchestra and his wonderful way
of playing the oboe off against
sometimes no more than a
phrase of two violas, other times
against a singing ’cello, or
’cello and the plink-plonk of a
harpsichord (player unknown)
—not to be outdone, Eugene
Goossens in his oboe concerto
played the oboe off in a long
and difficult cadenza against a
softly-beating gong.
Otherwise, Mr. Goossens did
not imitate Vivaldi’s economy:
he used a few more strings,
xylophone, glockenspiel, trum-
pet, woodwind and drums; and
the programme-note that the
soloist is “given the lead through-
out” was no doubt intended to
impress brother Leon. The
total effect of this brilliant writ-
ing, “chromatic in idiom,”
whether the rhythms were
bucolic, Chinese, rhapsodic or
vivacious, was of a series of grey
arabesques over a slightly-greyer
background.
How much must a technician
like Eugene Goossens envy the
strong themes of Tschaikowsky’s
“Romeo and Juliet” overture
that he conducted so well; or
especially of the scherzo of
Dvorak’s “Fourth” Symphony
in G, the performance of which
must have been as good as it
has ever had —the playing of
woodwind against strings had
the flush and excitement of new
discovery? .. . How much must
he envy? If anyone were brave
enough to ask him he would no
doubt make sounds like Whistler
defending his nocturnes in blue-
and-silver.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Vigil”
Every now and then the Mel-
bourne National Theatre comes
out with something unusual, and
of such is “The Vigil.” It is not
unusual in its viewpoints, which
follow the accepted lines of the
Gospel story, but it is unusual
in its treatment.
The authdr, Ladislas Fodor,
takes the assumption that Christ
rose from the dead and contrasts
it with the assumption of the
official judicial authorities that
the body was removed from the
grave and buried by a gardener,
and that the Resurrection was a
myth' invented afterwards by
persons interested in proving
His Godhead.
The issue is taken to the
court-house of a small town in
the United States and fought out
there in proper legal fashion.
The gardener, the guards, a pro-
fessor, a detective and others are
called to give evidence on one
side, and Joseph of Arimathea,
Susanna of Canaan, Saint Peter
and Mary Magdalene are called
to give evidence on the other.
Finally Saul of Tarsus electrifies
the court-room by getting into
the witness-box and telling of
his miraculous conversion.
The result is an extraordinarily
living picture which could be
studied to advantage by the
artistic contestants for the Blake
Prize, whose extremely dead
pictures are on exhibition at the
moment at the National Gallery
in Melbourne.
The Magdalene was uncom-
monly well done by June
Clyne, and Peter Norton played
Paul with intense passion. As
the Prosecutor, Reg Gillam was
the epitome of forensic acid,
Harry Starling was dignified and
feeling as the Defence Coun-
sel, and William P. Carr didn’t
strike a false note as the Judge.
*l* ♦> ❖
“You Lucky People”
Tommy Trinder, only lately at
Sydney Tiv. in “The Tommy
Trinder Show,” has turned-up at
Sydney Palladium in “You
Lucky People,” the haste
probably due to the same inde-
fatigable energy which Mr.
Trinder displays on the stage—
he rarely seems to be off it, in
fact, and the audience enjoys the
quick pounce of his Cockney wit
so much that he could probably
stay on all night.
That is not to say there isn’t
a lot of good stuff in between
Mr. Trinder’s appearances.
Lloyd Nairn, the spectacular
young juggler from “Hellza-
poppin’,” does some amazing
things with tennis-racquets, bot-
tles and a lawn-mower; David
Hogarth mimics mouthorgans,
trombones and whatnots in up-
roarious fashion ; a dog called
Reena indulges in elementary
mathematics and apparently
recognises flowers and film-
stars ; and the Flying De Pauls
indulge in some flashing acro-
batics.
A better balancing of the pro-
gramme could speed-up the first
half a bit, instead of leaving all
the good things till last.
+> #
Melbourne Tiv.
The leading current attraction
at Melbourne Tiv. is Edith
Crocker, and she’s a cracker —
or, rather, her bears are clinkers.
Described as teddy-bears, they’re
big brown balls of soft fur and
fat which, when in motion, look
absurdly like very fat old women
who have been imbibing.
But what Miss Crocker can
make these hopeless- and help-
less-looking masses of ineptitude
do is astounding. One ends up
steering a bicycle 9ft. high round
the stage with all the skill and
balance of a human trick-rider,
but still looking as hopeless and
helpless as ever, while another
sloppy monster does the same
thing with a motor-cycle.
Mightier feats of balancing
are done by the Myrons, but
they don’t seem so stupendous,
because it’s easy to see they have
the muscle and the brains to
do it. •
The Tivolovelies display their
charms in a harlequinade which
sometimes gets into, or near, the
exalted realms of ballet, and
Johnny “Rubberface” Craig
provides most of the humor with
imitations of Johnny Ray which
are even more fantastic than the
real thing,
❖ +> &
“Bona venture”
This ingenious theatre-piece
by Charlotte Hastings is being
produced by Canberra Reper-
tory’s director, Anne Godfrey-
Smith, with a skill and talent
more usually associated with
professional drama. From the
imaginative ingenuity of the
sets, through the sensitive
accuracy of the acting, to the
dramatic effectiveness of the
lighting the production is an
achievement of a very high
order.
The sustained performances
of Dorothy Moore, as Sister
Mary, and Neil Truscott, as
Dr. Jeffreys, were excellent, but
it was the characterisation of
the relatively minor Melling, by
John Moriarty, that most im-
pressed this reviewer. Jocelyn
Key, as Sarat Cam, could per-
haps have relaxed her tenseness
a little earlier than she did,
although her characterisation
was thoroughly convincing.—
F. M. T.
Artbursts
At the Victorian Artists’
Society in Melbourne are the
maquettes submitted by sculptors
for a new sports-building for
Melbourne Grammar. As
examples of what Melbourne
sculptors can do, they are' very
disappointing. Lenton Parr
claims the prize—a £2OO com-
mission—with the figure of an
athlete with very little life about
him. The most interesting thing
in the exhibition is the figure of
a runner lumbering along in a
desperate attempt to break the
record. It is by the nine-year-
old son of sculptor Andor
Meszaros, and has more life than
the stylised cricketer entered by
his father.
Talkies
“Adorable Creatures”
The ladies are gone-over with
affectionate cynicism in this
French study of feminine
witchery and bitchery, as mani-
fested in the love-affairs of a
young commercial-artist.
There is the beautiful mistress
who murmurs undying love and
forsakes him as soon as she sus-
pects her own husband’s fidelity ;
there are the gold-diggers who
put the skids under him with
lovely heartlessness and slit each
other’s throats with exquisite
grace and deadly accuracy; and
there is the charming widow
with millions, who, her age re-
vealed to him by a resentful
maid, farewells him gently with
“I am not too old for you ;
you are too young for me.”
Danielle Darrieux is the
mistress who exchanges feminine
insults as politely and perfectly
as she might serve cocktails;
Martine Carol is the gold-digger
who tells another of the same
occupation that love is more
wonderful than money and
promptly takes the other’s
money (a cotton-millionaire) and
leaves her the love (the com-
mercial-artist) ; and Edwige
Feuillere is the widow whose ex-
pansive charity doesn’t quite ex-
tend to the.maid who reveals
her age.
Daniel Gelin, as the young
artist, accepts them and loses
them all with a nice balance of
delight and philosophic resigna-
tion ; and Rene Faure brings a
hard, sad little charm to the
maid, a young ex-thief rescued
from the courts as a social ges-
ture and smouldering with
resentment against being used as
a permanent demonstration of
her mistress’s charity.
A commentary in English
with French accents has rather
too much Anglo-Saxon pudding
in its humor to go altogether
pleasantly with the light French
wine.
❖ ❖
“It Should Happen to You”
Judy Holliday, one of the
screen’s most intelligent comedi-
ennes, has an ideal vehicle in
this excellent comedy of an out-
of-work model who yields to a
crazy notion to invest a good
slice of her savings in renting a
huge sign-space in the heart of
New York and having her name
printed on it in enormous letters.
Peter Lawford, as a young soap
baron, is suitably cynical. At
Sydney State.
♦j* +!♦
"The Long, Long Trailer":
M.-G.-M. comedy about a
honeymoon couple in a trailer,
and rather overwhelming because
everything about it seems giant-
size—the screen, the color, the
sound, the scenery, the situations
and the slapstick. Its continuous
knockabout gets giant-sized
laughter, too, and the scene of
the towing of the trailer up an
8000 ft. mountain is an excellent
bit of comic tension. It stars
Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz.
Directed by Vincente Minnelli.
At Sydney St. James.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by BANT SINGER
50 he comes across the
room with the decanter
and a glass in his left hand
and the gun hanging in his
right, and I nerve myself to go
him. I relax and go back a
little on my heels so that when
I hit him he’ll get my full hun-
dred and seventy.
But he’s cagey. He don’t hand
me the decanter. He puts it
down on a little table and stands
beside it, waiting for me to step
forward and pick it up.
It don’t stop me, only makes
it a little harder. I come to the
table and bend down and take
the glass in my left hand and
the decanter in my right. He
isn’t tensed up quite so much.
He’s watchful, but all he wants
is me to get the drink and get
out.
I come up slowly at first. I
got my right hand turned and
the neck of the decanter be-
tween my first two fingers. Be-
fore he can move I jerk my hand
up and the decanter hit him in
the face. It doesn’t knock him
out, because the way I have to
swing it means it’s only half a
blow. But it staggers him, and
as he goes back I move fast
round the little table and' cut
him on the jaw with a left-hook.
I got a left-hook will knock
most men cold if it connects. It
connects with Olnec, but it don’t
knock him cold. He’s stocky
and solid and built to take
punches.
He takes this one and runs
backward a few steps, but he
isn’t cold, I’m right after him
and shoot my left hand under
his right arm and my right hand
grabs his right hand and jerks it
high. My left hand comes up
and clamps on his right wrist
and that gives me leverage. I
straighten my left wrist and,,
he gives a grunt and his right
hand got to go back and got to
open or his arm gets broken.
So his hand opens and the gun
falls on the carpet. I got no
time to pick it up. Because he
bunches his left hand and hits
me on the side of the neck. It
bends me sideways and I take
him with me and we fall over
the little table.
It’s all-in from then on, I’m
no jellyfish when it comes to all-
in fighting. Neither is Olnec.
He’s shorter than me, but he’s a
ball of muscle and he knows
plenty about wrestling in the,
Balkan style. The Balkan style
you grab, twist, kick, bite, spit,
punch and bounce. He does all
that. I stay with him. I stay
close. What I want is one clear
sight of his jaw and ten inches
of open air for my fist to cut
through. I get the sight but not
the space. I also get his knee
in my stomach and his teeth in
my shoulder. He’s clawing all
the time and claws my pyjama-
coat in tatters, I do some knee-
work myself and that makes him
grunt.
Somebody yells and I come
out from under Olnec some-
where and get a glimpse of
Fredericka standing on the
couch. She’s got a house-coat
on now, but her black hair still
flying. She must have jumped
on us, because a bare foot shows
up in front of me and next thing
a hand fastens on my hair and
tries to pull my head off. NO
time to be noble, I stiffen my
left hand—-my right has Olnec’s
head rammed hard against my
side —and chop sideways above
the bare foot. It hits her in the
shin and she yelps and lets go my
hair. I twist and whirl Olnec
and let him go and jump after
him and get both my hands on
his shoulders and spin him.
As he spins I hit him under
the left ear. That numbs him
and now I got the clear sight
and the ten inches and I don’t
miss.
I near broke my fist. Olnec
folds up like an old sock and I
let him fold and jump across
the room and grab that gun.
Then I straighten up. I’m hold-
ing the gun in my left hand and
blowing on the knuckles of my
right. Olnec stays where I put
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
him. Fredericka stands by an
overturned armchair holding up
her left leg and rubbing the
shin and sort of half-crying and
half-screaming.
Lester Ross runs through the
archway, in pyjamas, and
through the door that leads to
the passage comes none other
than Mac Ross. He’s in pants
and shirt and carrying a baseball-
bat. I lift the gun and they come
to a dead stop.
I’m bare from the waist up
and bloody from Olnec’s claw-
ing and my ribs and chest red
in the big spots where he hit or
kicked me.
“Just keep still and you don’t
get hurt,” I says.
Mac Ross starts to edge to
one side. I can read his mind.
He’s aiming to throw the base-
ball-bat at' my legs.
“One inch more, Mac,” I says.
“Just move one inch more. I’m
bustin’ to put a bullet in some-
body in this crazy joint.”
Mac Ross freezes.
“Drop the big timber, boy,”
I tell him.
He looks at Fredericka. She
looks back at him. He drops
the baseball-bat,
“All right,” I says, “just keep
still and keep quiet, all of you.”
I switch the gun to my right
hand and back off a little.
“You, Mrs. Amber,” I says.
“Go and stand close to the
sleeping beauty there.” I wave
the gun at Olnec. He’s grunting
a little and grabbing at the carpet
with his hands.
“You wouldn’t shoot, De-
laney,” she says.
“Don’t tempt me, lady,” I
says.
She pulls the house-coat closer
about her and moves to Olnec.
She’s a bit uncertain about it.
“You boys want to argue with
me?” I ask Lester and Mac.
Mac don’t say anything.
“What’s it all about. Aunt?”
Lester says.
“You’re talking to me.
Nephew,” I says. “Aunt is just
taking orders right now, that’s
all.”
“I don’t get it,” he says.
“You and Mac,” I says, “pick
up the Yugoslav and cart him
along to that room I was in.
Mrs. Amber, you lead the way.
And stay right close together.
Anybody makes a break they
cop it. And I ain’t kidding. Get
going.”
• Olnec is trying to sit up.
Lester and Mac move in and
pick him up, one on each side
of him, and stand there.
They got their backs to me.
The whisky-decanter is lying on
its side on the floor. There’s
still whisky in it. I move quick
and scoop it up with my left
hand and take in a shot.
“Along to my room,” I says.
“Lead on, Mrs. Amber,”
“But why?” she begins.
“It’s got only one door,” I
says, “and that’ll stop any more
Rosses surging in.”
“What are you going to do?”
“You’ll find out. Now, get
going.”
She starts for the passage.
“Keep right up with her, you
two,” I tell the others, “Anyone
lags is likely to get a spur from
me.”
They don’t even look round.
They lug Olnec with them. He’s
about himself again and he jerks
his head round and looks at
me. I show him I got the gun.
JWhen they’re in the passage
it comes to me that I follow
them someone could come at
me from behind.
“Hold it,” I says.
They stop.
“Get against the wall on your
left, Mrs. Amber, and face the
wall and stand still,” I says.
“Delaney, must you be so
silly? We”
“Yair, I must be so silly. Do
you stand against the wall or do
I club you into it?”
“Delaney”
“Against the wall, Mrs.
Amber. Ever since I hit this
Willets I’ve had Rosses on my
back. Ever since I come here
this Olnec has been waiting to
do me dirt. He put a gun on me
twice. Some things I got to
know and this is as good a time
as any to know ’em. You got
any complaints to make, make
’em to Olnec. He started this.
I aim to finish it. I aim to finish
it my way. Now get against
the wall and shut up.”
She looks at me. Past Lester
and Olnec and Mac she looks
at me. I look right back at her
and she sees I mean business.
So she steps over and stands
facing the wall.
“All right, you birds,” I says,
“step right over and line-up be-
side her, facing the wall, close
together.”
I’ve moved up on them while
I give the orders and they’re no
sooner lined with their faces to
the wall than I race past them.
When I stop I’m between-them
and the room, with only the door
to another room behind me.
Now I can see them and I can
see beyond them to the door
leading into the big living-
room, to the archway, and to
the hall.
“All right,” I says. “Now
you can follow me.”
I got the gun in my right
hand, covering them. I put my
left hand out and a little behind
me till it touches the wall. Then
I move backward. They come
after me.
If there was anyone in the
other room they must of been
asleep. Because it stays shut.
Just when I’m beginning to think
the door to my room has
vanished or something, and I got
to fight down wanting to look
round, my left hand hits the
lintel.
“Hold it,” I tell them.
My left hand feels down and
locates the knob. I turn it and
shove the door open. The light
is still on, I step back a couple
of strides, leaving the door clear.
“Inside,” I tell them.
Fredericka goes into the room
first, then Mac, then Olnec,
then Lester. I’m right up
against Lester as he goes through
the door and I shove him hard.
That pushes him against the
others and while they’re sorting
themselves out I’m through the
door and shut it and got my
back against it.
The bed is on my right.
Straight ahead is the window,
open, and the blind up. Left of
it, against the other wall and
facing the head of the bed, is
the dressing-table. The ward-
robe is between me and the
dressing-table, on my left.
There’s a chair by the dressing-
table.
There isn’t much room. It’s
about thirteen feet from the
door to the window, the room
is maybe ten feet wide. Only
about three feet between dres-
sing-table and bed, maybe four
and a half feet between ward-
robe and bed.
So it’s quite a crowd. Hardly
room to swing a cal. Nobody’s
going to swing a cat if I know
it. Or swing anything else.
“Shut the window and pull the
blind, Mrs. Amber,” I says.
“Then get up on the bed and
relax.” Mac Ross stands against
the bed, Olnec beside him.
Lester puts his stern on the
dressing-table and one foot on
the chair.
When the blind is down and
she up on the bed, holding the
bottom of her house-coat round
her ankles, I tell Lester Ross,
“Pick up the chair. Hold it in
front of you. Walk slow to me.
Slow, mind,”
He picks up the chair and
comes towards me, slow. This
is a bad bit. Because Mac Ross
is no more than four feet from
me and Olnec beside him. Be-
cause Mac can reach me in one
jump if Lester has the guts to
lunge with that chair when he’s
near enough. Because the nearer
Lester comes the harder it is to
watch him and the other two.
This is where I could have to
shoot. Because if Lester lunges
or Mac jumps, or they move to-
gether, I’ll have to shoot or be
kicked to death. I’m not worried
about Lester, because I reckon
I got him taped. But Mac has
been too damned quiet and
watchful all the time. He’s sul-
len and quiet and watchful, and
alongside him Olnec, and I know
Olnec is so mad he won’t even
think about getting shot if he
gets half a chance at me.
So it’s a bad moment. Maybe
I should have left the chair
where it was. But I want the
chair because I can feel a
reaction coming and my legs
likely to go rubbery any minute
and I got to sit.
I’m watching Lester and I see
his mouth tighten and it looks
like he’s nerving himself. I
beat him to it. I jump forward
and grab the chair and jerk it
from him and jab the muzzle
of the gun hard in his stomach.
He grunts and doubles and I’m
back at the door and got the
gun on Mac and Olnec.
I hold it on them and put the
chair against the door and sit
in it.
“Get back where you was,” I
tell Lester.
His face is whiter than ever
it was in his life. He goes back
to the dressing-table and rests
against it and hangs his head
and presses a hand against his
stomach.
“0.K.,” I says. “Now well
talk.”
14. Bellerive
<<CO now well talk,” I tell
them.
I’ve got them in this room and
me in the chair with the door
shut and the chair-back against
it, and me with Olnec’s long-
barrelled gun.
I take a quick look down at
the gun. I never see one like
WHAT HAS HAPPENED
Delaney, searching for infor-
mation in connection with the
murder of Lloyd Carson, which
he feels is linked with the suicide
of Detective Jardine, has, by a
combination of doggedness and
cleverness, finally made contact
with Mrs. Fredericka Amber,
who owns a eucalyptus mill at
Willets, a village full of people
named Ross, all of whom are
related to Mrs. Amber. With
Mrs. Amber is a mysterious
Yugoslav named Peter Olnec,
who distrusts Delaney and draws
a gun on him. Delaney tries
desperately to convince the
shrewd Mrs. Amber that he was
Carson’s partner. Later, when
Delaney goes out in the dark-
ness for a drink he surprises Mrs.
Amber and Olnec, and Olnec
again puts a gun on him. Delaney
decides to force the issue.


that before. Looks like one of
them Lugers the Afrika Korps
officers had in the desert, only
it isn’t a Luger. I see the safety-
catch is off. I never thought to
look before. I been too busy
and too tensed-up so far. When
I made Olnec drop it, back in
the big living-room, it could
easy have fired and someone got
shot. It didn’t fire and now I
got it and the safety-catch off.
I’ve had my finger pretty tight
round the trigger, up to now. I
ease the finger a little bit.
“We’ll talk,” I tell them.
“We’ll get some sense into this
set-up. Mrs. Amber, you can
start. What about this Olnec
bird?”
“Peter? I thought you knew
about him?”
“I told you. I come here to
find out things. Carson sent for
me, but he didn’t say why. He
got killed before I could contact
him. So now I’ll find out why.
Start with Olnec.”
“But that secretary of Lloyd’s?
The one in Murrayford? The
one he brought to Murrayford
to”
“I said we’ll start with Olnec.”
“Delaney, it’s very uncomfort-
able sitting here. And look at
you, all blood and everything.
Why don’t”
“Start with Olnec.”
She drags her bottom lip under
her teeth and sits there, looking
at me under her brows.
“You mean, when you came
in for the whisky?”
You know, I still had the de-
canter in my left hand and didn’t
know it. When she said that I
knew it. I put it on my lap,
holding it upright between my
legs, and my left hand was glad
to let go of it,
“Never mind about that. What
I mean is where does Olnec fit
in? You know damn’ well what
I mean.”
“Do I? Do you mean, what
does he do?”
“Yes.”
“He’s an industrial chemist.
He supervises the mill.”
“Who owns the mill?”
“It’s part of the estate. The
Edward Ross estate. The mill
and this house and most of the
houses in Willets and the euca-
lyptus-stands, I happen to be
Edward Ross’s only surviving
child, so I hold the controlling
interest.”
“Edward Ross dead?”
“He died six years ago,”
“Your name is Amber?”
“Yes. I married Roland
Amber. He died three years
ago.”
“That makes you sort of boss
of the outfit.”
“Well, yes.”
“Then there’s anything to be
known you know about it?”
“I’d be surprised if there was
anything about Willets and the
mill I didn’t know.”
I look at her and then at the
others. Nobody says anything.
I think over what she says. Way
I see it she’s the one I been
trying to locate all the time.
I keep the gun on them and
stand up. I take the chair and
put it on one side. Fredericka’s
mouth opens a little and her eyes
widen. Olnec and Mac Ross sort
of tighten up, where they’re sit-
ting on the bed. Lester Ross’s
eyes dart from them to me and
back again and his tongue runs
round his lips. I open the door
and stand to one side.
“0.K.,” I tell them. “You
birds can leave us. Me and
Mrs. Amber will have a private
session.”
Nobody moves.
Mac Ross says “You want us
to leave. Aunt?” So she’s his
aunt, too.
“It isn’t what she wants,” I
snap. “Right now I’m running
this. Get that and get it straight.
You Rosses been throwing your
weight about ever since I hit this
place. Now I’m doing the
throwing. You want to walk
out, Mac, or be carried out?”
“You wouldn’t shoot,” he
says.
“Don’t bet on it, chum,” I
says.
Olnec comes away from the
bed and goes into a crouch. 1
swing the gun his way.
“Nothing would suit me better
than for you to try something,”
I says. And right then I meant
it.
“For heaven’s sake,”
Fredericka says, in a high voice,
“do what he wants.”
Lester Ross straightens up and
walks past me and out the door,
not even looking at me. He
looks like he’s glad to be going
somewhere away from me.
Mac Ross goes past me.
“You wait,” he says.
I don’t say anything. Because
I’m watching the Yugoslav. He
wants watching. Because he’s
mad enough to chance the gun.
He stands there, glaring at me.
I lift the gun an inch, because it
could be another bad spot. Mac
Ross and Lester are through the
door, out the passage, but I can’t
see them. They could be cook-
ing-up something. I can’t watch
the door and Olnec, too.
So it could be bad.
“Peter,” Fredericka says,
“please go. I’ll be all right, really
I will. Delaney won’t harm
me.” It’s like she’s coaxing a
child.
He spat something out in his
own language and spun round
to face her. She gives him a
kind of shaky smile and says,
“Really, you can trust me,
Peter.”
He throws himself across the
bed and grabs her hands and
starts kissing them. I’m so
tensed-up I near shot him as he
lunged. He kisses her hands
and I get the idea he’s weeping.
§he gets one hand free and
strokes his black hair.
“Poor Peter,” she says,
I don’t trust any of it; not a
bar of any of it.
“He’s not outside in one
seqond flat,” I says, “I’ll crown
him and chuck him out.”
She looks at me over him
and what the look says does
things to me.
“Have patience, Delaney,”
she says. “He thinks you mean
me harm.”
“I got no cause to love you,”
I says, “but I won’t hurt you.
But you and me has got to talk,
and way I see it we do it better
if there’s just the two of us. Notf
tell him to get out.”
Before she can say anything
Olnec comes up on his feet and
turns and walks past me. At
the door he turns and puts his
black eyes on me.
“I don’t know how to begin,” she says. “Begin with Carson,” I tell her. So she begins with Carson.
“You hurt her, no,” he says,
“and I kill.”
“Out,” I says.
He looks at me and then turns
to her and gives her a little
bow. Then he goes out. I
slam the door quick and turn
the key.
I let out my breath and shove
the safety-catch on the gun
and step over and put it on
the dressing-table. I pick up
a glass there and pour some
whisky from the decanter, add
a shot of water from the carafe
and down the drink. Then I
look at Fredericka.
“Sorry,” I says, “I forgot.
Want one?”
She nods.
I rinse the glass, hand it to
her, hand her the whisky and
the carafe.
She helps herself to a heavy
slug, waters it slightly. I take
thb decanter and carafe from
her and she takes in the whisky.
“I needed that,” she says.
She swung off the bed and
'sat on it, with her legs dangling,
and reached the blanket and put
herself in it.
“You’re quite a man, aren’t
you?” she says.
“There’s a time for every-
thing,” I says. I sit on the
chair.
“I didn’t quite mean what
you think,” she says. “I was
thinking of the way you fought
Peter and how you made us all
come in here.”
“Look,” I says. “We’re here
to talk. Suppose you talk, Mrs.
Amber.”
She put a hand up to her
cheek, hqjding the blanket to-
gether with the other hand, and
looks at the floor.
“I don’t quite know how to
begin,” she says.
“Begin with Carson,” I tell
her.
So she begins with Carson.
We talk maybe half an hour.
She does most of the talking. I
put in some questions. Presently
I got the picture—or enough of
it to tell me how Carson got into
this Willets business.
The business is rum. They
make rum in the eucalyptus-mill.
Demerara rum, they call it.
That’s where the molasses comes
in. They make it from molasses.
Olnec taught them the trick.
The first Ross was a chemist.
He came here about seventy
years ago and gets the notion to
distil eucalyptus. Whole place
from Murrayford way out to
hell and gone was one big forest
of eucalyptus. The mill did
well. It wasn’t much more than
a shed to start. By the time the
first Ross dies and Edward Ross
takes over there’s this big mill
and the village. It never grew to
a town. Never had time.
Because people want food
more than they want eucalyptus,
farms start to crowd in. Ed-
ward Ross sees that before long
there’ll be no eucalyptus forest
left. Up to this time it was all
Government land, except the bit
where the mill is and the houses
round about it. All Ross had
was a right to cut trees for the
mill. He tried to buy enough
of the forest land to keep the
mill going. But he’d left it too
late, or the' price was too high,
or he missed his guess, or some-
thing—anyway, he finds that
what forest is left isn’t enough
to*keep the mill going. Because,
you can chop a eucalyptus-tree
down in five minutes, but it
takes seven years to grow
another one. So he starts plant-
ing trees on the cut-out parts
and he doesn’t cut any more of
the old trees down, just strips
them and leaves them to grow
again. But they take a long
time to do that.
So the mill goes slack for
want of eucalyptus-trees and he
has to cut down operations. By
this time he’s got a son and a
daughter, Fredericka is the
daughter. There were other
Ross relatives around all this
time, and they’re marrying and
having families and right now
about the only people in Willets
who’re not Rosses or Ross rela-
tives are Sam PaddO and Olnec
and two or three more and
Denis Delaney. Only Delaney
don’t live in Willets.
About ten years ago Edward
Ross hires Roland Amber. He’s
a forester. He’s hired to do
something about the eucalyptus-
trees. After two years he marries
Fredericka. Her brother, Angus,
dies of pneumonia a year after
that. The next year old Edward
turns in his hand. That leaves
Fredericka in the box-seat be-
cause the old man’s will simply
left the outfit to Angus and
Fredericka, one to take the lot
if the other dies. He don’t pro-
vide for nobody else.
Three years ago Olnec arrives.
He’s a displaced person. Dis-
placed by Marshal Tito. He
speaks a little English. He’s up
against it when he arrives, is
willing to work for his keep.
They give him a job poking
about the mill, general sort of
handyman. Somehow he gets
on the inside about things. I
reckon he was a good listener,
because he couldn’t speak Eng-,
lish too well. People talk
secrets when he’s about because
they think he can’t understand
them. So he gets on the inside
about the set-up.
He goes to Fredericka and
he’s got an idea. He’s an indus-
trial chemist. Back in his own
country he was out in the hills
with the partisans when the
Germans was running the place,
He operated stills, making nerve-
tonic out of barley or apples or
beet or whatever he could get
hold of. Fredericka listens to
him. She calls in her husband.
He’s against it at first. Way she
tells it he was a law-abiding
cuss. They talk about it for
a while without getting any-
where.
Mr, and Mrs. Amber go to
Palm Beach the next summer.
They rent one of them big
houses and join in the high
doings the big shots go in for
every summer. They run into
Lloyd Carson. Fredericka picks
him for a smart boy who knows
his way around. They leave it
at that and go home to Willets
and their eucalyptus business.
Then their banker calls,
spends the night, goes away. Mr.
and Mrs. Amber wave him good-
bye and then look at each other.
Because what the banker tells
them is that the old overdraft is
too big, their business is going
down, and inside a year or two
Willets will be like Allendale.
They’re right up against it. Be-
cause they can still sell plenty
eucalyptus but there just isn’t
enough trees to give ’em the
eucalyptus to sell.
' Then they remember Olnec
and call him in. There’s talk.
They can smell money in Olnec’s
notion, but they don’t know
how to go about it. They’re still
thinking about it when Roland
Amber, driving home from the
coast one night, collides with a
fast train on a leVel-crossing.
The shock knocks Fredericka
into a loop for some weeks.
When she snaps out of it she
finds she’s left with the mill
and the village and the people
in it. The mill will fold up unless
she does something. Willets ex-
pects her to do something. To
Willets she’s a kind of queen.
She was their princess when she
was a little girl, she’s tneir queen
when she inherits the mill. Way
she sees it she’s the great lady.
She likes being the great lady.
She’s a proud sort. She looks
on the Willets people, all the
Rosses and the others Rosses
married and brought in, as her
people. But if she wants to stay
queen and keep this little king-
dom she’s got to do something.
She thinks some more about
Olnec’s notion. Then she re-
members Carson. She gets on
a plane and she goes east and
locates Carson. Carson listens
to her, puts her. in his big car
and they drive back to Willets.
Carson stays at Bellerive. He
and Fredericka and Olnec have
consultations. Carson smells
nice money. Rum is a com-
modify you can sell anywhere,
if Y ou 8 0t it, and if you don’t
( Continued on page 30)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
o'.suijjv. VN r
rretri), .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
‘protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
f
—Have , You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
The PERISHERS
BY NANCY CATO
<< I T’S late in the season for
I travellin’,” said Big Roy
I Dawkins, rubbing his
square, grey - stubbled
chin. “You got plenty of water
with you? I wouldn’t go out
there meself without a forty-four-
gallon drum in the back of the
ute.”
The visitor across the table
sipped his cold lemon-squash and
smiled. Thirst seemed very far
away and improbable at the
moment. His long, sensitive
fingers caressed the moisture-
clouded glass; his eyes, a
visionary and impractical blue,
considered the yellow-green tone
of its cast shadow. His wife did
not look up from the cat she was
caressing ; she kept her dark head
bent beside the table.
“We’ve got plenty for the
time we’lf be out there,” he said.
“Four two-gallon tins —separate
tins, which is the safest. By the
way, one’s empty and one pretty
low ; can we fill them up here?”
“I can only spare you one of
rain-, but you can have as much
bore-water as you like.”
“Thanks, Mr. Dawkins.”
“But I still don’t like it. You
come back past here, don’t
forget, and let me know you're
all right. If you’re not back in
a week I’ll start to worry.”
Dolly Rankine looked up
then, with anxiety in her eyes.
They were rather wide-set eyes,
very round and innocent, in a
plump, pretty face.
Big Roy thought she looked
a bit of a fool; the pair of them
struck him as impractical city
types, though their car was
sensibly fitted with sand-grip
tyres, and their camping equip-
ment had a well-used look,
“But it’s not dangerous, Mr.
Dawkins?” said Dolly.
T>lG ROY snorted. “Not for
someone who knows the
country, with a properly
equipped outfit. That’s the
trouble, people coming up here
not knowing the country, and
what it can be like even at the
beginning of summer.
“I had a young chap through
here once, fresh from Melbourne.
On a motor-bike he was —can
you beat it? Wanting to go out
to the Mica Ranges; he’d seen
on a map that there was a big
lake near by, all nicely marked
in blue. Lake Wirracanna—-a
dry saltpan. Full of desolation!
Oh, he had water with him, two
one-gallon tanks built in each
side of the bike. ‘Listen, son!’
I said. ‘Before you go on, sit
down and write a letter saying
goodbye to your mother, because
you’ll never, see her again.’
“But do you think he’d listen
to me? I,argued half a day with
him, but he was pig-headed. We
found him ten days later, beside
his bike, just beyond Mount
Arcoona.”
“Perished?”
“He’d been thrown off, broken
his leg, and busted one of the
water-tins, then perished.”
Little Mrs. Rankine was star-
ing with wide eyes. Her lower
jaw sagged a little. She looked'
appealingly at her husband.
“Did you hear that, Hedley?”
Hedley Rankine ruffled his
thick, greying hair until it stood
up like a cockatoo’s crest. “I’m
no boy on a motor-bike. And I
mean to paint the sunset behind
Mount Arcoona if it’s the last
thing I do.”
“I wish you wouldn’t say
things like that, dear.”
“I’m sure Mr. Dawkins and
his daughters would let you stay
at the station if you’re scared, or
if you feel you’re getting too
old”
Dolly flushed. She was scared,
but she knew she looked a lot
younger than her husband, and
she hated any reference to her
age. “Of course I’m coming,
darling,” she said brightly, glar-
ing at him.
“Well, don’t forget ...” said
Big Roy. “Once you turn off the
track to the west, you’re on your
own. There’s nothing but an
old deserted station and a couple
of bores for a hundred miles;
and beyond Old Landinna
Station, for the last sixty miles,
you’ll have to make your own
track over the spinifex. If you
get bushed, climb the nearest
hill —there are a few little granite
outcrops look for Mount
Arcoona and make a beeline for
it”
“We have a compass.”
Big Roy smiled sardonically.
He’d never used a compass in
his life, and he’d rather trust to
the sun and stars any day. He
waved goodbye as they disap-
peared in a cloud of dust, and
resigned himself to a week of
worry. Damned tourists! Yet
they had made a welcome break ;
he must keep them for a longer
yarn on the way back.
T'HE car, its boot and back-
seat filled with camping-gear,
shovel, rolls of wire-netting,
painting equipment, tinned food
and cans of water, made good
time along the well-marked
cattle-pad that led out to the first
bore. From here on there was
only an overgrown track, almost
invisible, that wound among
dark grey mulga and desert oak.
The Rankines drank a great
deal, for their mouths were
parched by the fine red dust that
rose in a powdery cloud behind
the wheels, and seeped in through
the floorboards of the car. They
seemed to drive endlessly through
a color-film that was limited to
four shades —red, grey, blue and
yellow: the dust, the skimpy
mulga-trees, the sky and the
dead grass.
At Landinna Bore, a cluster
of date-palms in the centre of a
barren, salty claypan, they
topped-up a tin with the strongly
mineralised water, but did not
try to drink it. When they came
to the tumble-down hut ? and
cattle-pens that marked Old
Landinna Station, they stopped
for lunch.
A few morsels of camp-pie fell
on the ground, and in a moment
the place was swarming with
voracious meat-ants, seeming as
hungry as if they had not tasted
meat since the hut was aban-
, doned, Dolly looked down at
them with eyes very round and
shuddered slightly.
They did not linger, but went
on into the afternoon sun. Be-
cause they were travelling
westerly the sun struck through
the windscreen all the way ; even
with the breeze of movement, it
was almost unbearably hot.
From a stony rise they caught a
glimpse of Mount Arcoona in the
distance, like a great square
block cut from pale-blue card-
board, thrown down by some
giant child.
Hedley’s dreamy eyes lighted
up with purpose. They would be
there in time for the sunset.
“I’m hot,” said Dolly. She
was a master of stating the
obvious.
“You didn’t expect to be cool
in Central Ahstralia, did you?”
said Hedley mildly.
“No, of course not... but. . .
couldn’t we stop in the shade for
a while?”
“No, Better get on and camp
in comfort before dark.”
She said no more, but set her
mouth in the way she had when
anything displeased her. She had
a full, ripe mouth, and she kept
it always perfectly, freshly
anointed with lipstick. In all
the discomforts of their trip from
the south, even on lonely tracks
where they would meet no one,
she kept dragging the rear-vision
mirror around—a thing that
always annoyed Hedley—and
repairing her lipstick.
Dolly was a good wife at
home, he thought, putting up with
his eccentricities, never com-
plaining if dinner was held up
while he was intent on finishing
a picture; but there was no
doubt that a man was much to
be preferred on a trip like this.
TTIS momentary irritation was
swept away by the panorama
which burst upon them suddenly,
with the effect of a blaze of light.
They had come to the edge of a
plateau, and emerged suddenly
from the winding track among
the mulga. Ahead stretched a
vast plain, fading from red to
pink and yellow to blue in the
distance; they could see for sixty
miles in three directions, and
away in the centre of the horizon
stood the great square block of
Mount Arcoona, like a preci-
pitous island rising above the
level floor of the sea. And, like a
sea, the plain was not flat, but
rippled into endless rows of red
sandhills, covered sparsely by
yellow, dry spinifex. To the
south-west the Mica Ranges were
just discernible, a faint aerial
blue.
“God!” said Hedley Rankine,
and, though it sounded like
blasphemy, it really expressed
something of what he felt. He
turned dazed, dilated eyes
towards his wife ; and saw in her
face a look of alarrti.
“Hedley ...” He knew and
dreaded that note in her voice,
“Couldn’t we camp here instead,
and you could paint Mount
Arcoona from the distance?”
“What?” He glared at her,
incredulous. “Stop when we’ve
come as near as this? Turn back
now? Whatever for?”
“I don’t want to go out into
. . . that,” she said, indicating the
vast emptiness of the plain,
broken by a single column of
thin smoke from some wander-
ing blackfellow’s fire. “There's
no track ; and what if something
happened—a broken axle or
something—and we might never
be found.”
“Apart from the fact that a
car leaves a very definite track
over sand, I don’t intend to break
an axle,” he said dryly. “Look ;
you had a chance to turn back
at the Dawkins’, and you
wouldn’t take it. Now you’re
coming on to Mount Arcoona,
whether you like it or not.”
“Well, I don’t like it. I want
to stop here.”
It ended in one of their
infrequent but bitter quarrels,
himself shouting, Dolly shedding
angry tears. He thrust the car
into gear and drove on, bumping
wildly over the thick tussocks ot
spinifex grass,. whose fronds
reached almost as high as the
car roof. Suddenly she turned
and picked up his case of paints
from the back-seat, and flung it
out the window.
He couldn’t believe it at first;
then he jammed on the brakes
and gripped the wheel hard to
prevent himself from hitting her.
“You devil!” he said,
trembling with rage.
He turned the car and cruised
back along their tracks, but the
black tin box was nowhere to
be seen. When he judged that
he’d passed the point where it
must have been thrown out, he
turned again, his jaw set, his
mouth a thin line.
“I’m sorry, Hedley,” quavered
his wife. She was feeling
ashamed of her impulse now;
but she had often been secretly
jealous of his “beastly paints."
She crawled out and stood on
the running-board so that she
could see better as they went
along. Then she saw it, pro-
truding from a prickly spinifex
clump. She jumped down and
retrieved the box, heedless of the
sharp spines.
The tall, pale-yellow fronds
bowed down before the car as
they went on, over the great
waves of firm red sand, towards
the beckoning mountain that at
last began to dissociate itself
from the blue of atmosphere, and
show a tinge of orange-red, a
modelling of lights and shadows.
It was very slow going, and
Hedley looked gloomily at the
declining sun, “I’ll miss the
sunset now,” he said.
“I’m sorry, Hedley,” said his
wife humbly.
T>EACE was restored; they
made camp, unrolled the
sleeping-bags, lit a dancing fire
of dry mulga-sticks, in happy
companionship. Now they were
under the shadow of the moun-
tain she felt safer, somehow, than
when standing on the edge of
that empty, illimitable plain.
Although it was too close for
painting, Hedley had decided to
camp there because a fringe of
mulga grew about the mountain’s
skirts; further out there was
nothing but spinifex, which
burned away quickly to ash.
The slopes of the mountain
really looked like skirts from a
little distance. The square block
they had seen from file edge of
the plain was the upper section
only; below these abrupt rocky
ramparts a sloping scree of great
red boulders spread out in a
circle, with spinifex growing
between, and the red rocks and
yellow grass blended into a
delicate pink.
Hedley was delighted to find
Mount Arcoona all he hoped
from the description, in an
explorer’s journal, that had first
fired him with his ambition to
paint it. He went to sleep while
watchihg its square bulk against
the moonless, star-filled sky.
Now it looked like some
medieval castle set on a steep hill.
Only one thing marred the
cool, sun-sparkling morning; he
had to jump on Dolly for wasting
the water - supply. She was
actually tilting one of the tins
so that a stream of water would
run across her toothbrush.
“I hate cleaning my teeth in a
mug,” she said. She solaced
herself by pulling out a small
mirror and making up her mouth
perfectly.
I believe she’d put on lipstick
when she was dying, thought
Hedley. But at least it’s better
than having a wife who slaps it
on anyhow, in a sort of hit-or-
miss smear. Yes, Dolly’s an
artist, too, in her way.
She had put on a fresh blue
(Continued on page 24)


The Chisel with
o Difference!
Y QU can see and feel the difference in a Titan Wood Chisel.
The gleaming, forged tool steel blade with its promise
of superb edge-holding qualities, the handsome hardwood
handle, the inherent strength and balance of a fine
chisel . , , these are qualities that come only from the
best in materials and workmanship.
And you know you are getting the best, because
every Titan Chisel is guaranteed against defects
in workmanship and materials proof of Ijr
their outstanding quality and value.
Furthermore, they are more economical.
Titan Chisels cost no more, and their
keen, long-lasting cutting edges, strength
and balance help you do a better Job
quicker.
You save every way with Titan F
Chisels . . . guaranteed, fine,
forged tools made by Aus-
tralians for Australians. *
Write today to Dept . B,
P.O. Box 86A 9 Melbourne ,
for your free illustrated
Titan Catalogue .
Strength
to Spare
, "it
wm
Forged from
B.H.P. Steel
★ Every Titan Chisel blade
is genuinely forged tool
steel, processed from
B.H.P. special steel.
★ Expertly hardened and tempered
blades with a Rockwell C Scale
hardness rating of 59-61, ensur-
ing a keen, fracture-resisting
edge.
Handles of specially selected and
seasoned hardwood, finished with three
coats of clear lacquer.
★ Strengthening and protective ferrules of bright
drawn seamless steel tube.
Constant control of every manufacturing stage and
rigid factory tests guarantee the qjiality and work-
manship of your Titan Chisel.
Every Titan Chisel is GUARANTEED
and will be replaced free it found
faulty in material or workmanship
See the full range
of Titan Chisels at goar hardtrare stare
MADE AT HOBART, TASMANIA, BY THE TITAN MANUFACTURING m pty r i-r.


MENZIES GOVERNMENT
IMPLACABLE ENEMY
OF COMMUNISM ...
df
The Menzies
Government is
the implacable
enemy of the
Communists!
The Communists themselves are the best judges of where their
friends and enemies lie.
In the “Tribune” of 24th April, the Communist General
Secretary, L, L. Sharkey, said;
“The present situation demands that we deliver the main attach
on the Menzies Government . . . A Labor Government opens up
greater possibilities for advances, greater opportunities, provided
we organise and lead correctly.”
The following week’s “Tribune” said this;
“Prospects of defeating the Menzies candidates in the border-line
seats, of further cementing unity with Labor Party members
and supporters and registering a further rise in support for the
Communist Party are bright.”
REMEMBER THESE POINTS:
• Menzies introduced the secret ballots legislation.
Dr. Evatt opposed it.
• Menzies sought to outlaw communism.
Dr. Evatt opposed it. •
MENZIES GOVERNING
Carrick, 30 Ash Street,
FG.209
blouse with her dark-blue cotton
jeans, and a straw topee to
protect her pale complexion.
They climbed the mountain for
a thousand feet, up to the base
of the vertical cliffs of red
quartzite. He’d have liked to
have seen if it was really as flat
as it looked on top, and if there
was water there; but without
ropes it was impossible, the cliffs
rose sheer for five-hundred feet.
No eagles nested in the cliffs, or
circled above the barren rocks.
It seemed that there was no water
anywhere to support life.
X>Y the time they were ready
_ to leave on the return
journey, he had painted • the
mountain in every light:
silhouetted against a delicate
morning sky, brilliant and
shadowless in the blaze o'f noon
—he must have swallowed at
least a dozen flies while he was
painting that one—rich-colored
in the sunset, even by moonlight,
before the young moon set. Just
before sunset was the best light
of all, when the sky was still
blue, the rocks glowed with
orange-red fire, and the shadows
in their clefts were deep cobalt.
He wished now that he had
stopped when polly wanted him
to, that first evening, and painted
a picture from the edge of the
plateau. Well, he would stop
there till sunset on the way
back, if the atmosphere was clear
enough, and paint the mountain
for the last time.
It would make them a day
later getting back, but they were
only four days out. They had
used nearly two gallons of water,
and the radiator would need
topping-up. He would use the
bore-water for that. The
mineralised water didn’t seem
much good for painting, and it
was horrible to drink. They still
had a good six gallons left for
the return trip.
“I think we should- circum-
navigate this island-mountain
before we leave it,” he said on
the last morning, full of high
spirits. He loved breaking camp,
setting out, wherever it might
be. “Pull up the stakes and
go!” he carolled, flinging things
into the back-seat.
Dolly didn’t say anything. She
seemed to remember that man
Dawkins saying the tracks of the
young man’s motor-bike showed
that he’d ridden round and round
the mountain, as though be-
wildered, before falling off.
Part of the way was clear, but
round the far side of the moun-
tain, which was not circular as
they had at first thought, but
long and lozenge-shaped, the
mulga grew thickly right up to
the base, and far out on to the
plain. Hedley drove through it,
knocking down small dead trees
and crashing over the hard fallen
boughs that littered the ground.
Decay was slow in this dry
atmosphere, and the dead wood
was not rotten, but hard and
springy like iron.
“We won’t hurt these tyres,”
he said as Dolly looked anxious.
“The tread is nearly new and
extra-thick.”
They bumped out beyond the
homeward end of the mountain,
and the car began to return on
its own track,, looking like some
small desert-creature, lizard or
beetle, crawling through the
spinifex and sand of the vast
plain.
They had only gone a short
way when steam began tq hiss
out of the radiator. The
temperature-gauge showed a red
danger-line.
“She’s boiling!” said Dolly.
Hedley got out, opened the
bonnet, wrapped his handker-
chief round the radiator-cap and
managed to get it off. He peered
in and his face blanched. He
had topped it up just before
leaving; now it appeared to be
empty. He gazed back along the
way they had come and saw the
snakelike track of the water in
the sand.
“She’s leaking,” he said grimly,
and bent to look underneath.
“God! We’ve staked the
radiator —in the mulga back
there.”
6*YI7ELL! Now we are in a
* * mess!” said Dolly.
He didn’t bother to answer
her, but frowned at his feet,
thinking.
“Whatever are we going to do,
Hedley?”
“Try to mend it, of course.
She won’t go far without water.”
It was not a soldering job ; too
big a hole for that. If only he
had a welding outfit with him !
“I’ve heard of people using
pepper—or chewing-gum,” said
Dolly helpfully.
He ignored her and began to
root in the back-seat. He pulled
out a sleeping-bag and cut a
piece of the waterproof material
from one corner, rolled this up
tight and wedged it in the hole.
Then he filled the radiator from
the third-to-last tin, putting a
little in at first to make sure the
plug held.
He got in and they , bumped on
over the looming tussocks of
spinifex. He kept looking
anxiously behind for a trail of
water in the sand, and at the
temperature - gauge. It was
mounting rapidly. He stopped
with a curse, leapt out and put
his hand over the hole in time
to stop the last of the water from
escaping.
“Quick, Dolly! Come and
hold this while I make another
plug.”
This time he took more care.
fashioned one from wood,
wrapped some cloth about it and
tapped it into place. It should
hold. If it didn’t ... He filled
the radiator only half-full, start-
ing on the second-to-last tin of
water. They went on in silence,
Dolly thinking of all the things
that could go wrong with a
motor-car—the electrical system,
the tyres, the petrol tank, the
spark-plugs, the axle . . . their
lives depended on this weak,
man-made thing, vulnerable as
a soft-shelled crab.
■pVERY few miles Hedley got
out and looked at the plug
to see if it was holding. They
made fifteen miles like this, the
mountain began to lose its color,
to cloak itself in sky-blue mist
of distance behind them. Then,
quite suddenly, the engine was
boiling again. They leaped out,
but it was too late. The plug
was gone completely, and the last
of the water was trickling out.
They stared in silence at the
wet hole in the sand where it had
disappeared.
“It’s the continuous scraping
over the spinifex tufts,” said
Hedley. “The plug gets simply
dragged right out. The question
now is, whether to empty the
second-to-last tin of water, and
risk losing that, or to start walk-
ing, carrying the two tins.”
“Walking!” Dolly stared at
him as if he were mad. “But it
must be more than a hundred
miles! ”
“Not to water. We’ve come
sixteen from Mount Arcoona ;
we’re not more than fifty or sixty
from Old Landinna Station.
There must be a bore there some-
where, though we didn’t see it.
And there’s a bore ten miles the
other side, because we passed it.
That’s seventy miles, at the most,
and we have about three gallons
of water left. If we could make
fourteen miles a day, that’s five
days of walking, and two-and-a-
half pints of water each a day.”
“But even when we got to the
bore”
“After three days the week
will be up, and old Dawkins will
start to worry.”
“Yes, but how long before he
does anything?”
“He has a pedal-wireless at
the station. He might even get
them to send a plane out from
Alice Springs”
“But why should they bother
to look for us?”
“They don’t like people to
perish.”
At that fateful word such a
panic overwhelmed her that her
stomach became hollow, her legs
turned to jelly, and she sank
trembling in the red sand.
“Come, buck up, darling.
We’ll get through.”
She smiled wanly. He was so
brave and unconcerned!
“But I’ll never make it, Hedley,
in this heat. Let’s try the car
once more; you never know, it
might hold this time.”
He plugged the hole once
more, up-ended the square water-
tin until it was quite empty, and
screwed down the radiator-cap
with a final gesture.
“Now we can’t afford to waste
another drop,” he said.
“I’m so thirsty,” wailed Dolly.
The sun was high overhead, and
heat radiated off the red sand-
ridges so that the horizon
wavered and rippled as though
seen through distorting glass.
He gave her a quarter of a cupful
of lukewarm water and drove on
grimly, his one idea to cover as
much distance as possible while
the water lasted. But soon the
gauge showed red again, the
engine began to shudder and
snort. He ignored it and drove
on, until suddenly, with a
dreadful clatter, the bearings ran
and the engine seized-up solid.
“This is the end of the buggy-
ride,” he said.
It was stifling in the car, but
the roof shaded them from the
fierce, direct rays of the sun.
They decided to wait for evening,
walk in the cool of the night and
try to sleep by day.
t>UT there was very little sleep
after the first night of walk-
ing, in which they had only made
ten miles in the soft, clogging
sand. The flies tormented them
ceaselessly; their feet burned
with weariness ; they waited with
intense longing for the time
when the drink ration was
measured out, and then the warm
liquid scarcely seemed to quench
their thirst.
After the sweltering day the
quick, dry cold of the inland-
night was almost incredible.
They watched the sun go down
like a defeated enemy after the
second day, when they had been
so exhausted that they slept. The
moon was larger now, and
higher in the western sky at
sunset, but after midnight the
sky was a white blaze of stars.
They walked towards Orion and
the Bull; the Scorpion stood on
its head and sank behind Mount
Arcoona like a giant mark of
interrogation, a jewelled, eternal
question.
Three days and forty-two miles
later, they staggered on to the
edge of the plateau and sank into
the dark, delicious shade of the
desert oaks. The approaching
goal of the plateau, after the
endless sameness of the plain,
had spurred them to keep on well
after the sun rose. They had
been walking straight into the
face of the enemy, trudging over
the sandy ridges where death-
adders might be lurking in the
spinifex tufts.
“Only about fifteen miles to
go, darling,” croaked Hedley
after they had each taken a
double swallow of water. His
hands were ridged and sore from
the sharp handle of the water-tin,
which now, however, was
ominously light. They opened
the treat they had been saving
for now —a can of peaches in
syrup. Then they slept
exhaustedly in the shade until
late-afternoon.
They woke sweating in a cloud
of flies.
“Well, at least we can’t com-
plain of the cold,” said Hedley.
He watched anxiously for a
smile from Dolly, but her
cracked, swollen lips remained
immobile in her sunburnt face.
His one fear was that his wife’s
spirit would break, that she
would lie down and give in. He
could have travelled much
quicker without her, “He travels
fastest who travels alone,” be
thought. Or was it farthest?
Anyway, they were in this thing
together, and as long as they
kept moving there was hope.
Someone might even now be
coming out along their track to
the rescue, or there might be
musterers at Landinna bore . . .
He opened the haversack-
satchel in which he had carried
two blankets and their food-
supply, and took from it his
paint-box and a sheet of mounted
Whatman paper. Then he care-
fully measured out their evening
water-ration in two mugs, and
began to use his own for damp-
ing down the paper.
Away across the parching plain
the blue shape of Mount Arcoona
floated, soft and intangible as
the sky. It seemed wonderful
that they had ever been there,
that their human feet and legs
had carried them so far. He
finished the sketch, sucked his
biggest sable brush dry in his
mouth and drank the bluish-
green water left in the mug.
A S he got up to stretch his legs
he glanced uneasily at Dolly,
lying inert with her face in her
arms. She was not asleep, for
she kept twitching an arm or a
leg when the crawling flies
became unbearable. A croaking
sound came from her hidden
mouth. He hastily poured a few
drops of water into a mug. She
lifted her face and swallowed.
“It’s no good, Hedley.” Her
dull, bloodshot eyes were raised
to his. The words came with
difficulty. “You’ll have to leave
me here; I can’t go on.”
HC could see that it was true.
His words of cheerful reassurance
sounded hollow in his own ears.
Dolly rolled over wearily,
fumbled in the pocket of her
jeans, brought out lipstick and
mirror and painted, slowly and
carefully, the outline of her
cracked and swollen lips.


Changed Conceptions of Defence
The New Army
3. —From Puckapunyal to Seoul
By "EK DUM"
I—NORLD WAR II marked
\ \ I the borderline between
\A/ old Australian concep-
V V tions of land-defence
and the ones that belong to the
new world of the Communist
revolution.
In World War I it was incon-
ceivable that any local Aus-
tralian defence would be needed
that could not be provided by the
Navy. It was, indeed, inconceiv-
able that any World Power could
spare the manpower and re-
sources —leaving out the time
factor and shipping—to invade
us.
Thus the danger, though real,
was far away. As Chatham con-
quered India on the fields of
Germany, so it was possible that
the Kaiser might capture Aus-
tralia on the fields of France.
Local defence was a matter of
dealing with the saboteur at
home and providing a force to
help beat the Germans and Turks
in Europe and Asia. Thus the
A.I.F. was all that was neces-
sary, The Australian staff
almost bodily for the and
parts adjacent thereto. Aus-
tralia in 1914-18 had scarcely an
officer above the rank of colonel
concerned with local defence.
World War II began in almost
the same atmosphere, but not
quite. It was found needful to
take substantial precautions on
the spot at a very early stage,
especially in view of the danger
from Japan, which was leaning
heavily over towards the Axis
Powers. But the position had
not fully resolved itself. The
major problem of 1939-41 was to
beat Hitler in Europe so that he
might not secure world power.
The A.I.F. was the primary
force; the force for home de-
fence purely precautionary.
There was no machinery in
existence for bringing it effici-
ently and suddenly into being.
Compulsory service had been
knocked on the head by the
Scullin Government in 1930 and
had never revived. What units
there were were voluntary —
some pretty good ones ; but they
and their personnel, often in a
solid body, made for the gang-
planks of A.I.F. troopships.
The Menzies Government
began at once to build the
Militia, with violent opposition
from the Labor side, many of
whose leaders, including men
like Mr. McKell and Mr. Ward
and Mr. Clive Evatt, joined
wholeheartedly in the “No Con-
scription” campaign which had
been organised by a joint Labor-
Communist committee seated in
the Trades Halls.
What with this opposition,
which fought every inch of the
way, and the need of the British
Commonwealth to build an Im-
perial Air Force out of com-
pletely raw material, home de-
fence had a very starved infancy.
The result was seen in the events
of December-January, 1941-42.
+ +
It was a sort of poetic justice
that Labor leaders, who had
done most to prevent the estab-
lishment of basic defence .in
Australia, had the responsibility
for making emergency plans
themselves. Their panacea for
all military danger had been “300
aeroplanes to cost less altogether
than one battleship.” Their
panacea when Japan attacked
was to scream to the United
States and Britain to send them
the 25 divisions of land troops
which they had been told would
be needed to defend the country
if a serious invasion should take
place.
Nothing more was heard
about the 300 aeroplanes at that
stage.
The whole of the supporters of
the easy, aerial theory, fore-
runners of the Chifley push-
button school of 1946-49,
went to ground, and if their
demands did nothing else they
must at least have given the
Chiefs of Staff committees and
Churchill and Roosevelt a laugh
at a very trying moment. If
those two leaders had 40 divi-
sions available and equipped for
the whole world war everywhere
it was as much as they had, and
here were Messrs. Curtin, Evatt
and Ward calling for them to
send all but 15 of them to the
Antipodes.
The engineers and shipping-
men must have laughed, too, at
the demagogues’ notion of what
was involved in the movement
and supply of a division. Apart
from other immense resources
and ancillary and rear-line ser-
vices of various kinds, which
made the request one for some-
thing like 2,000,000 men, every
division would have needed a
minimum of about 80,000 tons
of shipping, and the force also
would have needed about the
whole tanker-capacity of the
world (Japan included)’ to ser-
vice it.
But it was no more foolish
than the other plan put forward
by these geniuses that Japan
should be conquered at 4000-
mile range by sending against it
squadrons of aircraft-carriers
without battleship cover —which
would range up to the Japanese
coast and blow Tokyo and
Osaka into the water, thus forc-
ing an abject surrender.
This scheme, put forward
early in 1942, is credited by
some people to the genius of Mr.
Ward. The squadrons presum-
ably were to fire their boilers
with air during a great part of
their voyages and the Japanese
Air Force was to declare their
visiting days public holidays for
all Zeros and Bettys.
The kind of thinking which
produced these plans was not
confined to Labor politicians.
There were many others little
better informed. But, if it did
nothing else, the Japanese attack
brought land-defence really into
the realm of practical politics in
Australia, though the absurdity
of two armies—one for home
defence which could fight a yard
south of a given line and refuse
to fight a yard on the other side
of it —remained till the end of
the carnage. It limelighted the
fact that thfc vital defence army
in modern war must be an indi-
genous army.
The events of early 1942
shamed the Australian Govern-
ment with its allies and served
to prove how unreal were the
conditions of service in Aus-
tralia which provided for two
armies, one of them in peace-
time compelled to wait on the
beach for the enemy unless it
was prepared to volunteer to a
man for overseas service; the
other, purely a volunteer body
raisable only after the outbreak
of war, ready to be sent any-
where in the world.
This condition no longer exists
so far as the Regular Army and
the C.M.F. go. They are not
two forces, but two parts of a
single force, a force like all other
armies in which it is not needful
to deplete home forces of
volunteers to form new units
which can go outside the three-
mile limit if need be. The basic
are already there.
Members of both can volunteer
for overseas service at the time
of enlistment—necessary in view
of the fact that we have accepted
our part in a planned and
orderly British Commonwealth
defence and also obligations
under the United Nations Char-
ter to provide armed forces to
support U.N. decisions. Also,
this condition of service is vital
because of the need to be ready
to act not merely to repel attack
on our own shores directly but
upon the sites for air-bases far
out ot Australia which are neces-
sary to our safety.
The only gun-platform which
could be used against these
shores in World War I was the
moving deck of a moving ship.
But to-day every airfield from
which a bomber can be launched
against us overnight —even from
Singapore —is a potential “gun-
platform.” And that means
every aerodrome within 3000
miles of the Australian coast.
Similarly, every piece of land
from which guided-missiles can
be launched and which is within
hundreds of miles of any of our
thickly inhabited coasts will be
in the same category.
Local defence of Australia is
also defence of its approach
perimeter.
It is important that there
should be no delay in 1954-type
war. Every type of defence
service must be ready to mobi-
lise the moment war breaks out,
to fight wherever it can serve in
occupation or capture of poten-
tial bases from which we might
be invaded or blasted. The Aus-
tralian Army is now a frontier
army, basically ready to serve
anywhere it is needed, in or
out of the Commonwealth, for
Australian defence.
+ +
The spirit, too, is different.
On the C.M.F. side of the train-
ing under the old Universal
scheme the numbers of de-
faulters were so great that at
some periods the penalty pro-
visions of Bart XII of the Act
could not be enforced. But
those days have gone. There
was a tendency to hang back
from National Service at first.
At August 6, 1951, the number
who reported for training
totalled 8641 out of 9024 called
up. At the last call-up on Janu-
ary 4 this year, the number was
9672 out of 9750, and most of
those who did not answer the
call were absent on reasonable
excuses.
Generally speaking, the
scheme has become popular.
The new surroundings, the type
of training, the good living-con-
ditions and food during the 98-
day period, the strong develop-
ment of the team spirit, arid, last
but not least where university
students and others engaged in
educational training are con-
cerned, the lump of deferred
pay waiting at the end of the
training period, all help. More-
over, modern physical training
and scientific rations soon have
their effect on physique, as disci-
pline and leadership do on
smartness.
The boys come in all sorts of
shapes and sizes, from all sorts
of environment —from King’s
Cross flats in bodgie clothes,
with guitars, and from the far
outback “with everything
droving except a stockwhip, as
one officer put it. Most leave
much heavier and with a couple
more inches of chest expansion
and straighter backs.
cases, they are almost unrecog-
nisable. They come out with
new friends, and leave with the
air of “old boys” leaving school,
knoxyng most of the elements of
co-operation with other armed
services, the handling or
weapons, of discipline and a
system of physical training. They
are considerably better set-up
for civilian life.
They have been paid on the
current rate for minors in the
Australian Regular Army. It
they are Commonwealth servants
the difference between service
pay and keep and civilian pay is
made up by the Government.
Sick-leave and emergency-leave
and* approved rest periods are
paid for and there are soldiers’-
compensation provisions which
ensure benefits fox the man who
becomes ill or is injured and
unable to resume his civilian life
at once.
This service provides the pre-
paratory stage of Australian de-
fence-training. The business-end
of both the Regular Army and
the C.M.F. has found its expres-
sion in the Korean Force, which
in the beginning was an improvi-
sation to met an unprecedented
situation, and a lesson in the
need for perpetual readiness.
The campaign is the pilot-plant
in which our new system is being
tested in war.
It was first decided to use the
Third Battalion, Royal Aus-
tralian Regiment, which was in
Japan when the arrangements
were made at the end of
August, 1950. To provide for a
reinforcement of 500 necessary
to bring it up to strength, and
for the necessary replacements,
special enlistments to a limit of
1000 men were opened to volun-
teers between 20 and 40 years
old who had had previous Army
service. The quota was filled
by November 21, 1950.
The first of these volunteers
were moved by air to Japan at
the rate of 200 a week. All the
complicated arrangements for
future training for the force in
Australia, with the organisation
of reserve battalions, was gradu-
ally made, together with those
for an advanced-training base in
Japan. A great proportion of
the men of the Third Battalion
had been with it for upwards of
five years without returning to
Australia, so that a system of
relief for these had to be pro-
vided.
Gradually all the problems
were ironed out. The pool of
general reinforcements in the
Reinforcement Holding Unit in
Japan maintained the front-line
strength of the battalion until
the fierce and costly battle of
April 23-4, 1951, which called
for heavy drafts direct from
Australia, all moved by air at
the rate of 80 a week. At the
same time general-service
arrangements were stabilised in
a pattern which probably will
hold good for the future for
units of the Australian Army
serving in foreign campaigns.
In May, 1951, it was arranged
for those who had been more
than two years absent from Aus-
tralia and had served not less
than eight months in Korea to
be returned to Australia, or be
allowed to serve in Japan or re-
turn to the front at their own
option. All members of the
battalion were given three weeks’
leave in Japan after eight months
in Korea, plus five days’ recrea-
tional-leave in Japan after each
four months in the line if the
exigencies of service would allow
it. The minimum age for |ront-
line service was raised from 19
to 20 years, but the original age-
minimum was shortly afterwards
restored. , There has been slight
variation in the arrangements
since.
The strength of the force has
been maintained by periodical
recruitments. In October, 1951,
at a time of heavy fighting in
which the Australians covered
themselves with glory, the
A.R.A. began to reorganise the
First Battalion of the Royals to
join the Third Battalion in
Korea. The Second Battalion re-
placed the First Battalion in
March-April, 1952. The First
Battalion returned for another
tour of duty, sailing from Aus-
tralia on March 20 last, and the
Second Battalion was back ,in
Sydney on April 16 last.
The total of those who have
served in Korea are 8566 men
(as well as 20 women), of whom
5521 belong to the Regulat
Army. Last month 5747 were
still there, of whom 4884 are
Regulars. The campaign had
recently seemed a quiet and
peaceful one, with an odd flare-
up or two, to remote Australian
observers who sometimes had
not seen mention of the force for
weeks at a time in the Australian
Presl But even in its later stages
it had been a period o| cold vigi-
lance under the roughest kind of
conditions —an experience to
which only the youngest and
strongest men can stand up over
a period of months.
+ +
Its present watchful monotony
is a greater strain on discipline
and staying-power than is heavy
fighting.
But that there has been fight-
ing is shown by the losses.
There have been 268 fatal
casualties, with 215 killed in
action and 34 died of wounds.
The fact of so few deaths from
disease —two in an overall num-
ber of 8600 men—is a remark-
abe tribute to modern military
medicine in a battle-area in
which troops have lived in the
field in all weathers, down to
gizzards, and ail temperatures,
from Queensland summer to
Canadian winter.
They have lived among a
starved and diseased population,
among rats and other carriers of
diseases of the lethal-fever
types; yet the loss by death
from illness is one in 4300!
The wounded in action
totalled 1045 ; so that altogether
one in seven was either killed or
wounded and the ratio of casual-
ties of all kinds to the total force
about 1 in 5.5.
The contingency least to be
feared among Australians was
to be taken prisoner. The re-
cord sho'ws 15 p.-0.-w. returned
by the Communists and six “be-
lieved p.-0.-w.,” most of them
also “believed wounded in
action.”
The Korean Force has won
243 decorations, including two
C. a George Medal, six
D. 25 M.C.s (one Bar)
four D.C.M.s (a Bar), 17 0.8.E.5,
22 M.B.E.s, 39 M.M.s (one Bar)
and 88 mentions in dispatches.
The record provides a pretty
good index of the qualities of
the Third A.1.F.; qualities
which run right through the
Australian Army, Regular and
Citizen, with an evenness that is
a product of the new system of
complete unification. Also of
the circulation of talent, which
has brought home Korean
veterans to seed the home sec-
tions of the Regular Army,
which has placed the National
Training Battalions under direct
command of officers who only a
few months, or sometimes
weeks, before were commanding
on the Imjin; which has sent
C.M.F. officers to the front for
(Continued on page 27)


No. 10 o/ a Series
Men who make. ....
Gopdm
-tkbdtfatrimco
■ . '
In the laboratory of the Capstan research
department, fully qualified chemists are every
day checking and testing the materials and
processes used in the manufacture of your
“Capstan” Tobacco. Mr, Fraser is in charge
of the team whose work it is to watch and
maintain the high standards of quality for which
“Capstan’s own blend” is renowned the
standards that make Capstan the much sought
after tobacco that it is. Watch for other interesting
advertisements describing how your Capstan
Tobacco is made.
“Blended Better"
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
i
m
V «
i
(WWW
I
m
X9B9D-8.53
SPORTING NOTIONS
Tattersall’s Club programmed
a £6BOO prize-money meeting at
Randwick on Saturday, exclu-
sive of sweepstakes and other
moneys, with the James Barnes
Plate (li mile) of £l5OO as main
attraction. A good-class field
lined-up for the Plate, and the
race was won by Electro, from
First Century and El Ziet.
First five horses past the win-
ning-post in Tattersall’s Flying
Handicap all hold engagements
in the £lO,OOO Stradbroke Han-
dicap, to be rtm by the Q.T.C. at
Eagle Farm next Saturday fort-
night. To win last Saturday’s
sprint Gay Vista overcame No.
20 barrier-position and full
credit goes to jockey Bill Cook
for his agility at barrier-rise. He
took Gay Vista quickly over to
the rails, and from then on it
was follow-the-leader to the post.
Birdwood, second to Gay
Vista, came home fast, just
ahead of Karendi, with Crown
Signal and Lucky Stride inches
away. With Stradbroke weights
mostly on a flattering scale the
Randwick runners will be better
off in Brisbane.
Gay Vista has been one of the
best sprinters on Sydney and
Melbourne tracks during the past
season or so. He won with 8.6
at Randwick and drops a couple
of pounds, but Karendi’s 9.5 to
9.2 makes him read a better pro-
position over the Stradbroke dis-
tance (seven furlongs). Karendi’s
stablemate, Crown Signal, who
finished almost in line with him,
will come down from 8.5 to 8.1,
and he, too, will appreciate the
extra furlong in Brisbane.
Lucky Stride had every chance
last Saturday, and it isn’t easy to
visualise him turning the tables
on those that finished ahead of
him if he is taken north. Bird-
wood, however, will be one of
the hardest to beat in the Strad-
broke. He has won at seven
furlongs at Randwick, and last
Saturday’s run was his first for
some weeks. He will derive much
benefit from the run, as he was
much on the big side and sweated
freely. As winner of this year’s
Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket
Handicap, Birdwood is well-
credentialled, and he shares
Stradbroke favoritism with Kar-
endi.
With Karendi and Crown Sig-
nal in his team for Brisbane,
Randwick trainer Jack Green
seems to be in a key position so
far as the big northern sprint is
concerned. At this stage, Karendi
looks like being a tough nut to
crack.
Gay Vista and Birdwood, pre-
pared at Rosebery, are contrast-
ing types so far as training is
concerned. Gay Vista is a small
horse when placed alongside
Birdwood, but he is a nippy
sprinter and generally leads or
is close to the front from the
start of his races. Birdwood is
a big, strong horse and has to
be given a lot of fast track-
galloping to fit him for an
engagement. He had two strong
gallops last week leading up to
the Randwick run. On the
other hand, Gay Vista had had
only two easy half-miles, almost
effortless even-time tasks. Evi-
dently he saves his best gallop-
ing 'display for race-day.
Imported Neptune, at stud in
New Zealand, sired Arabic and
Distant Star/winner and runner-
up in Tattersall’s Welter, while
third horse, Sobriquet, also has
a Dominion sire. Beau Repaire.
Arabic and Sobriquet are New
Zealand-owned, but Dr. Roy
Croft races Distant Star. Arabic
won with a lot in hand. Sobri-
quet’s third indicated that he
might soon win. Arabic is a fine-
looking gelding, and Saturday’s
win was his third in a row.
In minor places at earlier out-
ings, Doneath opened his win-
ning account at the meeting,
when heavily supported in
Novice Two-year-old company.
The Nice Day (imp.) gelding, a
500gns. yearling, is from the 1
Midstream (imp.) mare Brook-
let, who has a New Zealand
background. Her dam. Queen
Helen, was got by Chief Ruler
(imp.) from Helen by Limond
(imp.). Family-lines include
three former smart New Zea-
landers —Golden Hair, Main
brace and Reremoana.
Sydney’s leading jockey,
Neville Sellwood, made a lucky
and financially successful trip to
Adelaide last Wednesday, win-
ning, the £4OOO Adelaide Cup on
Melbourne - owned Spearfolio.
Sellwood had been engaged for
another acceptor, but that horse
was withdrawn and he was given
the mount on Spearfolio. En-
graver (second) held a six-
lengths lead into the straight,
but he stopped quickly, and
Spearfolio beat him by three-
quarters of a length, with Beau
Regis third. The two miles were
run in slow time, 3min.
27sec. Spearfolio is a six-
yqar-old Portofino (imp.) geld-
ing from Spearlette by Spear-
head (imp.).
Imported Port Vista, who won
sprint races in England, is sire
of several sprint winners in
various Australian States, with
Gay Vista the best so far of his
progeny. Port Vista had another
winner last Saturday, when
Apache got there at Moonee
Valley, creating a surprise in
the Second Laluma Handicap.
It was the gelding’s third race-
start and he showed improve-
ment on earlier displays. Ridden
by A. Burton, who recently
rode, a couple of winners in Syd-
ney, Apache downed hot-favor-
ite Palestrina. Owner-trainer R.
Roach paid 420 gns. for the
Port Vista gelding at the Rand-
wick yearling-sales last season.
Courtesan, dam of the gelding, is
a sister to Socrates, a Waverley
Handicap winner at Randwick.
She is by Valiant Chief from
Lady Courteous by Chivalrous
(imp.). As the family-lines in-
clude Beau Vite, Skipton and
Wotan, Apache reads like a
potential stayer. -
• • • •
Queensland Turf Club’s
£2OOO St. Leger Stakes will be
run on the opening day of the
Cup meeting (Saturday, June 12),
and it is likely another Sydney-
owned colt will lift the big-end
of the stakemoney. Two years
back, owner E. R. Williams won
the Brisbane classic with Forest
Beau, while Sea Sovereign was
successful last year for D. Cry-
stal. Both winners were trained
at Randwick by Tommy Smith.
Electro should make it interest-
ing for opponents in this year’s
Red Riband, and he could
make it two wins for Williams,
for whom the colt is prepared at
Randwick by Ted Hush.
Electro also is an entrant for
the two-miles Brisbane Cup of
£12,000, but maybe his owner
will rely on Lord Forrest for
that staying-event. Lord Forrest,
who started at forlorn odds and
came from the rear of the field
to finish seventh to Gay Vista on
Saturday, should soon win a
middle-distance race. He has 8.5
in the two-miler, while Electro
has 7.6, so the latter seems to be
nicely placed, despite lack of
real form at the distance. Elec-
tro’s St. Leger display will be
best guide to his Cup hopes.
Brisbane TattersalTs Club will
hold its Cup meeting on Satur-
day, June 26. The Cup will be
worth £2500, plus a £l5O trophy.
First leg of the double is the
W. J. Healy Stakes (six fur-
longs ; £1250). Weights for the
Doom b e n Ten Thousand
(£10,500) and the Cup (£10,000)
will be issued on June 16. Many
southern and New Zealand
horses have been nominated.
Bill Cook, who rode Carioca
in most of his successes, includ-
“If you're tired o' this, mate, we got a billiard-table
in the clubhouse."
ing the Sydney Cup and Metro-
politan, regards that top-class
galloper as one of the most in-
telligent horses he has ridden,
and Cook has had a long experi-
ence with racing. He gets en-
thusiastic when discussing the
now-resting champion. “I could
tell by Carioca’s actions as soon
as I saw him walking round the
enclosure, and more particularly
when I mounted him, that it
would be another winning day,
or that he would go close to the
money., Carioca has that will
to win that’s often part of a
champion’s make-up. He seems
to know exactly when he has
rivals downed or is about to
beat them off. His sprightly
actions and idiosyncrasies |o me
have meant an almost certain
sign of success. Strangely
enough, these were absent on
days when he wasn’t able to
beat opponents—weight was a
real factor towards the finish of
his successful run —and defeats
at recent starts before he went
for a spell seemed to foretell
that Carioca had had racing for
the time being.” Carioca is now
at the stables of his owner. Jack
Booshand, at Toowoomba (Q.),
but it’s expected he will return
to Sydney for another prepara-
tion by Hoysted. He may be
reserved for spring weight-for-
age contests and handicaps run
under quality conditions.
The 1953-54 racing season has
a little more than two months
to run and owners of maiden
two-year-olds are trying to win
some money with them before
the term closes. Some of these
youngsters cost thousands of
pounds as yearlings, to which
has been added some hundreds
in training and other costs.
Many owners of two-year-olds
try to get their purchase-money
back in the first year of racing,
but others are more patient and
are content to await a young-
ster’s development. A few do
not believe in racing two-year-
olds at all.
* ♦ *
The Fijians lost to N.S.W.,
16-13, on a wet field at Sydney
Cricket Ground; a good crowd,
but a cold, showery day. N.S.W.
—practically an Australian side
—played well, time after time
swinging into three-quarter
movements that seemed certain
try-getters. Folbigg, the new
N.S.W. winger, has been criti-
cised ; but in this writer’s
opinion he did very well. What
happened, usually, was that his
opposing winger, Dawai, came
in and tackled the centre, Fol-
bigg being collared each time by
a Fijian centre after a deter-
mined run. Stapleton, on the
other wing, has exceptional
speed and scored two fine tries.
In all these games it is well
to remember that the Fijians
hardly ever win a scrum or a
lineout. So a scrum is equivalent
to a penalty. Levula, Tooth and
Stapleton were the stars of the
game. But someone should have
told Levula about Tooth. Time
after time Levula made runs up
the line which really merited
that overworked word “terrific,”
cutting a-way clean through New
South Welshmen, only to run
into Tooth, one of the most
remarkable defenders this side
of the black stump; whether
that piece of symbolic timber is
situated in the U.K., N.Z. or
South Africa. Jo gritted his
teeth and kept trying—and, in a
way, his tactics were sound
enough. If he could have flat-
tened Tooth —once—the way
was clear. But he couldn’t.
Once he varied his play, run-
ning infield and passing to centre
Cavalevu, who scored.' „
June 19 North and South
Island (N.Z.) teams meet at
Christchurch. A big date, in a
part of the world where Rugby
Union is a serious sport.
♦ * *
Avenging its own defeat by the
Magpies in the 1953 grand-final,
Geelong gave a weakened Col-
lingwood its first defeat in this
year’s V.F.L. (13.17-9.8). Col-
lingwood was further weakened
by the loss of a couple of men
in the hard, slogging game, par-
ticularly star rover Thorold
Merrett with a broken ankle in
the first quarter. Geelong, how-
ever, was also affected by in-
juries. Footscray, after losing its
first two games, has not since
gone down, and easily accounted
for Essendon (12.8-4.7); Haw-
thorn had a goal the better of
Richhiond (11.12-10.12); South
Melbourne, a team of ups-and-
downs, was this week on the up,
beating North 12.13-8.14; St.
Kilda unexpectedly beat Mel-
bourne 14.15-12.6; and Carlton
had its second, successive win,
beating Fitzroy 15.10-8.10.
* * *
An Australian Boxing Club
importation. New Caledonian
Ware Kaoutch (9.12) made good
in his first fight at Leichhardt,
beating Ray Coleman (9.9)
somewhat easily on points over
12 rounds. Continually swing-
ing punches, Kaoutch won the
very good scrap at both ends—
taking the first three or four
rounds comfortably and the last
three well also. Two brilliant
boxing prospects, middleweight
Johnny Lavan (11.5£) and
featherweight Darcy Carr (8.9),
figured in the six- and 10-round
supporting contests respectively.
Lavan outboxed and outfought
Mai Allen (11.0) decisively, but
the bout was declared a draw.
Carr outpointed Johnny O’Shea
(8.12) beyond question, and he
got the ref.’s blessing.


1
without FAG
S*
W TH A
m
m
ADD
£2i/io/-
personal portable
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of coufctiy as well as city asm.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books.” Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors, Contex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy,
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
to CHARTRES Ltd
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE: BRISBANE:
375 Collins St. 256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
Also •
HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
DBVONPORT
experience; and which has con-
ditioned new-fledged Dun-
trooners on the battlefield,
The swiftness of communica-
~ ... U 1 r
tion winch enables the tidier
w leaves _ Sydney on Fn y
night to be in Korea on Sunday
(unless there. is any hurry),
the telescoping of time-factors,
which place a man wounded at
midday on the operation table
in Kure 400 and more miles
away the same. afternoon, have
revolutionised the facilities for
troop-training more than any-
thing which has happened before
in military history.
It has also revolutionised the
need for readiness in defence
and left its mark on the Army
of Australia—for the first time
in peace-time history organised
according to a basically efficient
method, as a united force, sub-
ject to a little healthy competi-
tion among sections, with a
command and an into-
grated existence which makes it
| workaHe whole instead o£ a
scr j es o£ f rac tj ons without over-
a jj un -.
. . . .
Putting it on its present basis
will make memorable the re-
gime of the present Defence
and Army Ministers and the
Chief of Staff, Lieutenant-
General Sir Sidney Rowell, and
hi s team c f war-time veteran
commanders who are this year
mostly going into retirement
with him. And this is the more
so because they are being suc-
ceeded by a lot of trained young
blood of quality who, physically
and professionally, cannot be
excelled anywhere in the world.
A Canadian Conies Back
Australia: 1948,
and Now
By GREGORY NORTH
IT is nearly six years since I
was last in Australia, and the
changes I have seen upon my
return recently are truly re-
markable —most of them very
much for the better.
As these changes have been
gradual in their development it
is just possible they may not
have been fully appreciated by
resident Australians themselves.
On the other hand, an absentee
like myself over a period of
years is probably more likely to
assess their significance in better
perspective; and it would seem
fitting that some of the changes
should be briefly surveyed by a
Canadian with no political axe
to grind, whose liking for Aus-
tralia and her people has led him
back to her sunny shores for
good.
During my previous 18-
months’ sojourn here (1947-1948)
the country suffered a series of
strikes which seriously affected
the welfare of practically every
citizen, for at that time most of
the key-industry trade-unions
were led by unscrupulous men
bent on disrupting the whole
economy with a view to handing
it over to their Communist
cohorts in Russia. That they
failed to do so is a tribute to Aus-
tralian courage and common-
sense.
I mention specifically the
Queensland and Victoria trans-
portation strikes, which lasted
for many trying weeks; the
series of coal strikes in New
South Wales, and the constantly-
recurring work-stoppages on
the waterfront at all important
ports—a few among the many
attempts on the part of the Reds
to bring about strife and dis-
cord during Australia’s transition
from a war-time to peace-time
economy.
The Communists resorted to
violent intimidation on occasion
to bring decent-thinking men
into line, to say nothing of their
wives and children, and indulged
in battles on city streets with
the forces of law and order to
make martyrs of themselves —a
common Communist trick. A
very shaky peace was established
just before I left, but of short
duration only, since the then-
reigning Labor Government,
relying as it had to on these
same Communist-led trade-
unions for considerable voting
support, had its hands tied from
the outset.
In consequence of all this, a
general spirit of apathy and
futility semed to brood con-
stantly over Australia.
But to-day comparative calm
reigns on the industrial-labor
front throughout the land, and it
is more than mere coincidence
that one hears little concerning
the Communist union leaders of
yesterday, since no longer do
they wield power over Austra-
lian workers. That is the most
significant change for the better
I have seen since my arrival two
months ago.
And the victory over Com-
munism has been accompanied
by a buoyant spirit of optimism
good to witness. I sensed the
change practically the minute I
arrived in Sydney. Whereas six
years ago the wharfies’ attitude
had been one of disgruntled dis-
satisfaction with everything,
this time my fellow-passengers
and I were greeted with cheery
grins; furthermore, we received
courteous treatment at their
hands while engaged in sorting
out our luggage.
Later on, in course of my
train journey from Sydney to
Brisbane, I travelled with a
wharfie on holiday. By virtue
of my previous experiences six
years ago I was somewhat scepti-
cal about conversing with him,
but to my surprise he was the
first to break the ice. And my
surprise was even greater when
he volunteered the information
that there hadn’t been a major
strike on the Sydney waterfront
for over two years.
“A few stoppages over pin-
pricks,” he admitted, “but noth-
ing serious.”
He actually voiced these state-
ments with pride, then went on
to tell me that his union officials
now disciplined the men, “And
they’re a bloody sight stricter
than the other blokes ever
were!” he added with a grin.
After that he told me he had
earned well over £5OO during
the last six months, so considered
it time he took a holiday.
Perhaps thoughts of that holi-
day influenced his optimism, or
possibly- he wanted to impress
a Canadian newcomer, for by
now I had divulged this fact;
but I prefer to think his satisfac-
tion with the prevailing state of
affairs was genuine. The fact
that ships are now turned-round
in half the time they were six
years ago would appear to lend
weight regarding efficiency as
well.
A corollary of labor strife is a
continuous shortage of consumer
goods, which was very notice-
able in Australia during my pre-
vious visit, but such is not the
case to-day. Instead, the shops
are crammed with goods of all
descriptions, including luxury
articles and household appliances
not to be had for love or money
six years ago. And the plethora
of motor-cars on the streets and
in dealers’ show-rooms amazed
me, ranging in make from
modest Morris Minor to regal
Rolls-Royce.
It is not my intention to in-
dulge in a series of statistics to
emphasise the improvements I
have noted since coming back,
but the quotation of a few im-
portant figures here would not
come amiss. First and foremost
is the fact that inflation —the
world’s bugbear at the present
time —has been definitely curbed
in Australia. In 1951 the retail-
price index, according to official
reports, was up 24.3 per dent.
In 1952 the rise was only 9.8
per cent., while in 1953 it was
a mere 3.7 per cent.
Few countries in the world to-
day can boast of such a curb,
and fewer still can parallel Aus-
tralia’s record of a rise of 90.7
per cent, in the earnings of men
in industry since September,
1949, with a corresponding rise
of only 62.5 per cent, in living
costs.
At a time, too, when other
countries are showing a sharp
increase in unemployment
figures Australia is suffering
from an actual shortage of
labor; this despite the fact that
in recent years some 340,000
New Australians, plus a natural
increase of 85,000, have been
absorbed in her working force.
Furthermore, a mere 12,914
persons were drawing unemploy-
men t-relief at the end of 1953 —
a situation without parallel any-
where else.
I stress this healthy position
because it is of the utmost im-
portance that a country’s pro-
gress and prosperity be viewed
in relation to the situation pre-
vailing in other parts of the
world —false propaganda of
calamity-howlers to the contrary.
And in this respect Australia has
come* through her , years of trial
with flying, colors. That is a
solid fact no reasonable thinking
person can deny.
While away from this country
I occasionally heard comments
to the effect that Australians
were becoming more and mote
Americanised in their thoughts
and tastes as time went on. And
now that I have been able to
view the situation for myself, I
do think there are definite signs
of such a trend in certain in-
stances.
In the matter of informal
dress, for example, Australian
men in particular seem to have
laid aside their former conserva-
tive prejudices in favor of
brighter-hued raiment. Many
office-workers now carry on
minus their coats and sometimes
in open-necked shirts with
sleeves rolled up to their elbows.
These changes follow the
American pattern. In this con-
nection I well remember the
curious stares of wholesale
clerks six years ago when I
transacted business with them
tieless and coatless. To-day no-
body pays attention to similar
attire,
American influence is un-
doubtedly more evident to-day
than formerly on radio pro-
grammes and the screen, and in
the choice of popular music—a
trifle nauseating in effect at
times, but apparently what the
majority of Australian fans
want. Compared with my native
Vancouver, for instance, right
next-door to the United States,
the dearth here of well-produced
British films in favor of a great
preponderance of American
ones is remarkable, despite the
fact that the British are produc-
ing excellent pictures, particu-
larly in the realm of comedy.
And in the matter of “Quiz” and
“Give-away” programmes on
commercial radio-stations the
trend definitely 'follows the
American pattern.
Perhaps these things are a
natural development, but it does
seem a pity that there should not
be more honest-to-goodness Aus-
tralian drama and comedy fea-
tured to-day.
I was also somewhat surprised
to note the extent to which in-
stalment-selling is now carried
on here. This system is, of
course, American in origin, and
to describe the limits to which it
has been carried over there
would require an article in it-
self.
Apropos of this trend there, I
encountered many instances
while living in California of
family heads buying new cars,
new television-sets, new furni-
ture and household appliances,
and even new clothing, all at the
same time, on instalments with
practically no payment down in
most" instances. The fact that
many of the items traded-in on
the new stuff probably had years
of good use before them counted
not one iota in the deals, sue
was the effect of high-pressure
salesmanship plus the ever-pr
system, carried to the limit it is
ent tor turtner comment
I will say, however, that in-
stalraent-seffing here is con-
ducted on more consemtave
lines, and there is little danger
of the situation getting out of
hand; in fact, there is consider-
able merit in the scheme. I
think, too, that most Australians
are conservative enough to limit
their purchases to one thing at a
time, instead of mortgaging their
entire weekly or monthly earn-
ings on several, as is the case in
America,
j n conclusion I will say this:
compared with older countries,
Australia is singularly fortunate
p ossess j n g vast na tural re-
H * she n
more people to develop them
SSLhy
pol i cy) for greater production is
a vital key to further progress,
In order to achieve Capi-
and Labor shou)d giye each
c^er a “f a j r go,” since they are
interdependent. From my owii
observations I believe the situa-
tion in this respect has greatly
improved. But most certainly
propaganda that seeks to build
up class-hatred won’t help, nor
will political mud-slinging.


NAI
d
Incorporating
BCPA
NOW LINKS AUSTRALIA WITH
North America
Luxurious Super Constellation now operating for
first time across the Pacific .
At your service— internationally —Q ANT AS now
extends its global operations across the Pacific
to U.S.A. and Canada. The high standards of
passenger-comfort established on this famous
“Southern Cross” route by the previous
operators —BCPA—will be maintained by
QANTAS.
Newest, finest airliner on the Pacific, the
modern Super Constellation has restful
“sleeper-seats” and provides de-luxe first-
class and tourist air travel. Regular twice-
weekly services from Sydney via Fiji and
glamourous Honolulu to San Francisco —
extending to Vancouver three times fort-
nightly.
Consult your Travel Agent.
A
m
l
If tw /
iJK.
QANTAS world routes with associated airlines.
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE OFFERS YOU WORLD-WIDE SERVICE
—Links Australia, Nth. America, Europe, Sth. Africa, The Orient, Pacific Is.
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. '(inc, in Queensland) —incorporating BCP A—
in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
33 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
THE TRUTH ABOUT
"’McCARTHYISM"
Dr. Daniel A. Poling, world presi-
dent of the Christian Endeavour
Union, has summarised American
patriots’ view of Senator Joseph
McCarthy as follows:
“Senator McCarthy is a symbol.
He is a symbol of dynamic defence.
More, he is America’s symbol of de-
fence that must become an offensive
all along the line.”
The current issue of the League of
Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
DIGEST contains an exposure of
the Communist-inspired world-wide
smear campaign being conducted
against Senator McCarthy. This ex-
posure should be studied by all
those Australians who desire to
understand how the Communist con-
spiracy operates to destroy those
who attack it effectively.
Every issue of. THE INTELLI-
GENCE DIGEST contains factual
material for the benefit 'of Austra-
lian patriots. By private subscrip-
tion only. £2/2/- per annum.
Single issues 4/- each.
The Victorian League of Bights,
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDO-CHINA
While it is difficult to disen-
tangle completely the various
suggested policies for Indo-
China, the views quoted here-
under from the “Manchester
Guardian” and “U.S. News and
World Report” represent two
main schools of thought.
They might, in fact, be said to
illustrate broadly the differences
in the British and American atti-
tudes, the one leaning to an
armistice, the other favoring all
aid short of direct involvement,
in the belief that, given such help,
French and Vietnam troops can
eventually clean-up the Com-
munist threat to the country. *
Economy
On the country itself, a Lon-
don “Financial Times” corre-
spondent considers that the
economy of Indo-China has a
great deal to do with the political
position and will become of par-
ticular significance if the ques-
tion of partition comes up for
discussion.
“The three States, Vietnam,
Laos and Cambodia,” he points
out, “together occupy an area
rather more than a third larger
than France. The two principal
lowland areas, around the Red
River in the north and the Me-
kong in the south, are separated
by a belt of high, rocky country.
Over two-thirds of the country
is covered with forests; and
although agriculture is the prin-
cipal occupation, only about one-
twelfth of the whole area is cul-
tivated.
“The principal crop (some 90
per cent, of the total) is rice,
grown mostly in the two river
deltas, though only the south
produces an export surplus.
Other crops are maize, sugar,
groundnuts and spices.
“Rubber plantations are high-
ly developed, especially in the
area east of Saigon, and there
are tea and coffee plantations in
4mnam. Timber and fishing are
other staple industries,
“Although deposits of iron,
gold and phosphates exist —
mainly in the country north of
the Red River—only coal, tin
and zinc have been exploited on
any scale. The coal comes prin-
cipally from the ‘mountains of
coal’ near Haiphong, where
there are open seams some 60
feet high ; in spite of the exten-
sive installation of modern
machinery, the area has been so
vulnerable to Vietminh attack
and propaganda that production
is still well below the pre-war
level.
“Zinc ore, from Tonking, is of
particular importance because
ores of this metal are compara-
tively rare in the Far East.
“The proximity of the coal-
fields, and the good supply of
labor, has meant that industrial
development has taken place for
the most part in the delta of the
Red River. Here there are
cement factories, cotton-mills
and paper-works. The only
other centre of modern industry
is at Cho Lon, in Cochin-China,
where tobacco-manufacturing,
sugar-refining, rice-husking and
alcohol-distillation are carrired
on.
“The foreign trade of Indo-
China before the war was closely
wrapped-up with the French
policy of imperial preference. A
high tariff was placed on imports
from other sources, and trade
consisted for the most part of
Indo-Chinese raw materials —
rice, rubber and cement —in ex-
change for French manufactured
goods.
“Production has been improv-
ing in the past two years, though
the coal figures are still well be-
Des Moines “Register and Tribune”
“LIMITED INVOLVEMENT?”
low the pre-war level and com-
munications have been violently
disrupted by the military situa-
tion.
“Nearly four-fifths of all im-
ports still come from France ;
most of the remainder is divided
between China, Japan, Indonesia
and the U.S. Before the war 53
per cent, of exports went to
France (including the whole of
France’s rubber needs) ;4ast year
the proportion was less than 30
per cent., and both the U.S. and
Japan were large customers,
“The trade deficit has always
been a severe strain on France
and it has widened with the need
for war-materials. Last year the
adverse balance was equal to
three-quarters of the total value
of imports, and was met only
with the help of foreign aid.”
Intervention
Discounting the value of direct
intervention by Anglo-American
forces on the side of France
and Vietnam against the
Vietminh (Communist) rebels,
“Manchester Guardian” remarks
that “the sending of token forces
to Indo-China would be as futile
as the issuing of empty threats.
France has sent thousands of
troops to Indo-China and yet
has not been able to overcome
the difficulties caused by geo-
graphy and by an apathetic civil
population.
“To control the Red River
delta by day and night (for many
roads and waterways now
nominally in French control are
freely used by the rebels after
dark), to clear the hilly jungles
of Northern Vietnam, and to
hold the Chinese frontier would
be tasks requiring a force sub-
stantially larger than the United
Nations sent to Korea. A mere
token international force would
be of no military value.
“The Chinese could disregard
a threat of direct intervention by
the United States, Britain and
other countries, because they
would know that no such inter-
vention would matter unless on
an immense scale. The Chinese
have large numbers of troops
close to the borders of Vietnam ;
the Americans have only a hand-
ful ready, and they are on the
wrong side of the Pacific. (The
British have none unless they
strip the garrisons of Malaya
and Suez.)
“The Chinese know that if
necessary they can act quickly ;
they know that U.S. Secretary of
State Dulles would have to
secure the consent of a reluctant
Congress and the support of
Americans who shudder at the
thought of another war like
Korea.
“An atomic war, the alterna-
tive to another Korea, is unthink-
able, nor could it conceivably be
justified before the dispute had
been reported to the United
Nations.
“Altogether Anglo-American
intervention would be futile and
the threat of it patently hollow ;
the existing Franco-Vietnamese
forces are numerically sufficient
to hold the critical centres almost
indefinitely, but without very
great reinforcements they could
not hope to win an outright mili-
tary victory.
“The brandishing of threats,
then, has nothing to commend
it; nor has the proposed South-
East Asian defence treaty. It
has neither relevance nor fore
in the existing situation.
form of guarantee that JNato
provides—namely, that an attack
on one is an attack on all—can-
not be given where war is already
being fought (and with covert
intervention on both sl ,, s ',
without full agreement, of the
Asian Governments and the will
to raise adequate armed forces,
neither of which exists, the treaty
would be worthless. At present
it had better be shelved.
“The objective surely ought to
be an armistice in Indo-Chma,
not an extension of the war.
That should be too elementary
to need stating.”
American Attitude
The American approach, as
set out by “U.S. News and World
Report,” is that “anti-Commun-
ist forces now available to Indo-
China are enough to defeat the
Communists. Manpower is ade-
quate and equipment and sup-
plies are largely so;
“The problems holding up
victory are those of morale, of
training, of tactics and of the
war’s direction. It is those things
that are to get important U.S,
attention.
“A firm agreement to press the
war and not to accept defeat by
negotiation is the first step. That
is being sought from the French.
It is backed by a promise of
some support from the U.S.,
Britain, Australia, New Zealand
and Thailand.
“Once French commitment is
obtained not to withdraw or lose
by default, other steps are to be
pressed by the United States.
Time for these steps will be
available in the few months
ahead with the Indo-Chinese
rainy season now starting and
large-scale fighting ended for the
year.
“A new ‘constabulary,’ able to
deal with underground agents
and local troublemakers in areas
not held by Communists, is to be
formed and equipped with U.S.
arms and trained by U.S.
methods used in the Greek guer-
rilla war in 1947.
“An expanded native Army,
manned by Indo-Chinese draf-
tees, is to be trained by U.S.
methods, possibly by cadres of
American GFs.
“A stepped-up Air Force is
planned, too, possibly manned in
part by American volunters,
much like the ‘Flying Tigers’
who aided Chiang Kai-shek in
China before World War I.
“New incentives for Indo-
china’s people to fight Commun-
ists then will be sought by a clear
and dramatic guarantee of com-
plete independence from France,
including a date for indepen-
dence to take effect.
“New top-level direction for
the war is to follow. Plans are
being laid for going over to the
offensive, attacking Communist
Vietminh forces instead of
always waiting for a Communist
attack.
“A ‘Nato’ organisation for
South-Eastern Asia is to be pro-
moted by the U.S. at the same
time. Efforts will be made to
get real support for the war
from 10 nations of the non-
Communist world, which already


0 re ye
7>
BEL tS
won SCOTCH WMISt'IJ
Distilled and ble»d' u
VhTSCOTIAND
—-
DISTILLERS wmSCOT I^
a»„« established
scor^"..*-
product Of
rsFm&i:
•y.A \
Small is big—
sometimes!
A paradox? Perhaps! But there
are times when a tape-measure
Is not the truest judge of stature.
Take Scotch Whiskies for
example. Bell's Is one of the oldest
of the Independent firms of Scotch
Whisky distillers—they have been
making whisky since 1825.
Their output is by no means the
biggest but the whisky they make
is ‘big’ in the best sense. Yes,
Bell's Old Scotch Whisky is a
really-and-truly ‘big’ whisky.
A big-hearted drink. Well and
wisely matured. Beautifully
blended. Carrying in the heart of
it the heart of the Highlands.
Those who take whisky seriously,
take Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
dse£.
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
° F OUAIV^
YARRA FALLS SUITINGS
made in Australia
jfrom pure Australian
virgin wool
' V->M
**>■<■
111
have agreed to consider such an
cllllclllCCa
“Volunteers will be sought,
too, in Asia and Europe to ex-
pand the French Foreign Legion
into a big international force for
fighting Communism in Indo-
China.
“Dollars will be pumped into
the war in larger volume to help
accomplish these steps. U.S.,
now footing about 80 per cent,
of war’s cost with 1,000,000,000
dollars a year, is likely to take
over the rest of that cost, then
increase the total effort.
“Americans, in and out of
uniform, will go to Indo-China
in larger numbers as well, under
plans now laid. There will be
more technicians, new training
experts, maybe volunteer pilots,
plus high-ranking officers to aid
in planning.
“But Gl’s with rifles are not
included in these plans. Unless
Communist China jumps into
the war with large forces, addi-
tional combat manpower is not
considered a big problem of this
war.
“Behind these plans, as U.S.
officials see it, is a crisis and an
opportunity.
“The crisis is coming to a head
at this time. French losses are
increasing the desire of the
Government in Paris to end the
war on almost any terms, and
the Geneva conference provides
the chance to negotiate a ‘peace’
with Communist officials.
“Opportunity, however, comes
at the same time, with the begin-
ning of the rainy season in Indo-
China. This ends all large-scale
fighting for months, and provides
a chance to train new forces,
take other steps to build up anti-
communist strength for a real
victory. , 1
“Communist forces lost about
three divisions of their best
troops at Dienbienphu ; are rela-
tively much weaker than before
that battle. Communist supply-
lines are long and difficult, rela-
tively harder to maintain than
shipping-lines from U.S. to Indo-
Chinese ports, near the front.
Native support of the Commun-
ist Vietminh shows signs of
waning, and U.S. observers be-
lieve it can be seriously weak-
ened by a guarantee of inde-
pendence for Indo-China and a
real show of anti-Communist
strength.
“Numerical strength of anti-
Communist forces already out-
numbers full-time and part-time
Communist forces —about
500,000 to 300,000.
“The U.S. decision, thus, is to
put every possible pressure on
France to continue the war, then
to take all steps, short of direct
American entry into the shoot-
ing end of that war, to ensure
victory.
“Planners believe that Com-
munists can be defeated in Indo-
China much as they were in
Greece, after the U.S. took over
from Britain and faced a near-
hopeless situation, with Com-
munist guerrillas overrunning
the country.
“Emphasis now, as it was in
Greece in 1947, will be on revo-
lutionising the training, the
organisation, the direction of
anti-Communist efforts. A new
constabulary for ferreting out
Communist agents, a promise of
political support to guarantee
independence after the war, a
show of U.S. strength in support
of native anti-Communist forces,
all are to be tried, based on
lessons learned by the U.S. in
Greece.
“But, in addition, a basic
lesson learned in Korea is to be
tried, through an effort to create
an international organisation to
support the war. All 10 nations
involved have agreed to look into
this possibility after the Geneva
conference. How much tangible
support this will mean, however,
has yet to be seen.
“Can France be kept in the
war? That’s the most immediate
problem. U.S. planners believe
she can. They say any with-
drawal or appeasement by the
French now will mean the cer-
tain loss of France’s big invest-
ment in Indo-China, a probable
revolt in French North Africa
and the end of France as a Great
Power. It also would mean the
end of a billion-dollar U.S. sub-
sidy for the war, some of which
benefits France at home.
“If the French stay in Indo-
China, as expected; plans are for
the United States to get much
more closely involved in the war
—but in a major support and
advisory role, not in a role likely
to cost U.S. lives.” ,
A “Long View”
Taking what he calls “a long
view,” and leaning more to the
American attitude, Lieut.-
General H. G. Martin asks, in a
letter to London “Daily Tele-
graph” : “Does Indo-China
necessarily stand or fail with
Dienbienphu?
“Surely not. The heroism and
resolution of the defenders —the
full extent of which we cannot
yet begin to realise —have in-
vested this battle with an aura
that exaggerated its purely mili-
tary significance.
“The Franco-Vietnamese Ex-
peditionary Corps is the loser,
from first last, of perhaps
20.000 very gallant men. But
these 20,000 have not been
thrown away. Already they have
extorted from Vietminh a price
in dead and permanently dis-
abled far exceeding their own
number.
“The defence of Dienbienphu
has been an inspiration to France
and the free world: its loss
need not —must not —mean the
abandonment of the Navarre
plan,
“According to this plan as
accepted in September last,
General Navarre is to clean-up
Indo-China from south to north,
and to smash the Vietminh field
army, by the end of 1955. Mean-
while the national armies of the
Associated States, and particu-
larly the Vietnamese Army, are
to be immensely expanded, and
the United States is to bear most
of the ln 1956 the Expedi-
tionary Corps is to pull out, leav-
ing the national armies to do the
mopping-up or guerrilla-hunt-
ing.
“The plan is now well under
way. By the end of this year
the strength of the Vietnamese
forces wifi exceed 500,000 men;
within the next two years these
forces should overcome their
besetting weakness—the lack of
experienced cadres. Already the
plan has resulted in an appreci-
able lessening of the cost to
France in men and money.
“The strength of the Expedi-
tionary Corps, exclusive of
locally-recruited Indo-Chinese,
remains stationary at about
180,000, of whom 6000 officers
and 60,000 men are French, In
1953, some 13,000 of these
180.000 were killed, and of them
1800 were French. As for the
war’s cost, the United States is
now paying over 70 per cent, of
it.
“The alternative *to the
Navarre plan is direct negotia-
tion with Vietminh, Negotiation
would result either in a partition
of Indo-China which must leave
the vitally important delta of
Tonking behind the Iron Cur-
tain, or else in a Coalition
Government which would admit
the Communist cuckoo to the
nest. Either outcome would be
equally disastrous,
“If the French are to extricate
themselves from Indo-China —if
the free nations are to preserve
South-East Asia —they must to-
gether see the Navarre plan
through.”
U.S. Merchant Fleet
“In at least one respect,” com-
ments the Dallas (U.S.A.)
“Morning News,” “America is
now in the position of the
cobbler whose children had to
go barefoot. Since World War
11, while the U.S. was pouring
billions of dollars of taxpayers’
money into other countries, it
has neglected to keep its own
merchant marine abreast of
modern developments.
“Last year the United States
sank to seventh place in ship-
building. Britain was at the top.
Next in line were the three
nations defeated in World War
II —Germany, Japan and Italy.
Most of their construction was
done with American money.
“It will do us little good to
have a modern Army if we lack
the ships to take it where it is
needed. Of 46 passenger- and
cargo-ships that a Presidential
advisory commission recom-
mended in 1947 to be built in
the next four years, only six
have even been started. That
hardly seems the best way to
prepare for defence against pos-
sible aggression from overseas.”
China Famine
According to the Peiping
“People’s Daily” the “people’s
democratic dictatorship” of
China advised its peasants
to cease their “blind” and “wan-
ton drifting” into the cities.
Commenting on that directive
and the “unhappy plight of the
farmer in Red China,” “New
York Times” notes that “last
November saw the introduction
of a grain-nationalisation policy
in China which demanded that
the peasants, after paying their
regular land taxes, sell their grain
to the State at fixed prices”:
“Moreover, individual farmers
were required to combine then-
resources *in ‘mutual-aid teams’
and ‘producers’ co-operatives.’
Farmers were told that this re-
shaping of agriculture would
bring about increased indus-
trialisation in their country.
“Disliking the confiscatory
nature of the new farm plan,
peasants and other rural workers
began to move to the cities to
find jobs in the promised indus-
told by the Ministries of In-
terior and Labor that ‘urban
construction is just beginning,
that not many people are needed
and that the supply of construo-
tion workers has exceeded the
demand.’ ”
To which the Houston
(U.S.A.) “Post” adds: “The
seriousness of the Chinese
famine is shown most clearly by
the admission in the ‘People’s
Daily’ that about one-half of
those obtaining Government re-
lief are country dwellers. In
their mad desire for military
power the Red Chinese mili-
tarists seem to have stripped the
farms of much more than the
usual tax-levy. This in turn,
human nature f being what it is,
probably has made the Chinese
farmers reluctant to grow as
much as the Government de-
mands.”


%
HBBBBBg
mini
811
Makers of
POWER ST ATI OH,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boiierhouse equipment.
1
II
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works: Regents Park. N.S.W.
Branch Offices in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR UNO & MARINE SERVICE
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN..
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made hy the world’s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and hoilerhouse equipment.
BABCOCK
STEAM
RAISING PLANT
T 8 LLEYr . Supreme 100% tr
KERO RADIATORS
m
t?
f Ifc
5>
§
§
§
§
a*S
Be independentl With this TILLEY Portable Kero
Radiator you can be sure of cosy comfort token and where
YOU want it! Burns 12 hours on only IJ pints of Kero! Made
only by TILLEY—a sure guarantee of quality and efficiency!
MODEL R.l. n
(“THE AMBASSADOR )
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
While import restric-
tions remain yon may
have difficulty in ob-
taining TILiIiEY pro-
ducts. -
have to pay any excise duty on
it. Carson dopes%ut a scheme.
Every way they look at it there
don’t seem to be any flaws.
Carson advances two thousand
cash and tells Olnec and
Fredericka what to do. Then
he heads back fol the coast to
line-up his end.
At the back-end of the mill,
in behind the vats and retorts,
Olnec builds a concrete room.
Inside this he puts the equip-
ment he buys with Carson’s
money. Willets is told that Olnec
is now chief chemist at the mill,
that the new concrete room in-
side the mill is an experimental
laboratory, that nobody is to
go in there without Olnec’s per-
mission because the experi-
ment’s got to be kept secret and
because the stuff in there is
dangerous. The room has no
windows and the door is iron
with a combination-lock.
Willets don’t know it, but
pipes run from that room along
the mill roof and into the mill
fume-stacks. So all the smells
Olnec makes get carried off in
the eucalyptus fumes. You got
maybe eighty per cent, euca-
lyptus fumes and twenty per
cent, alcohol fumes all anybody
can smell is eucalyptus.
Most of the eucalyptus made
in the mill goes out in forty-
four-gallon drums, hauled on
two big road-freighters to the
big wholesale houses on the
coast. The trucks bring empty
drums and mill supplies in. It’s
dead easy for Carson to arrange
a few drums of molasses to
come in with the empties. It
won’t be hard to load two or
three drums of rum, branded
like eucalyptus-drums but with
a secret mark, and drop them
off at the right places. But it
means bringing in the two
freighter-drivers. Carson don’t
like that. Fewer there are tlie
safer, way he sees it. But there’s
no way out. So the drivers come
in on it. One of them is Johnny,
the one who started all this
when he rushed into Sam
Paddo’s bar and blurted out
about Carson’s car being out-
side. The other is away some-
where delivering eucalyptus.
They bring in three others,
Mac and Bert Ross and Lester
Ross. Mac and Bert are
brothers, Lester their cousin.
Lester helps Olnec with the still,
Mac and Bert are lookout men
—they keep their eyes and ears
open in Willets and Murray-
fqrd, smell out strangers, watch
for any sign of anyone being
interested in what goes on.
So I listen to this and I can
see that to Carson it \yould be
a pretty set-up. He’s got this
tight little Willets for his sup-
plies, a near-proof way of get-
ting rum out and molasses in,
and it’s no trouble for him to
make contacts to take over the
rum. Because rum is a whole
lot more popular than most
people think, especially in the
cold part of the year.
Carson don’t overlook much.
One thing he makes dead sure
of. No Willets rum gets sold to
anybody within a hundred miles
of Willets. That way it leaves
Wiilets in the clear. Most times
when people take to running a
still they sell the stuff locally
and it isn’t long before the
revenue birds come flying round.
So Carson fixes it that anybody
wants to buy rum within a hun-
dred miles of Willets they got to
buy legitimate rum.
Well, they start the business
about six months before I blow
in. Inside three months they’re
raking off heavy dough. You
sell rum with no excise or sales
tax on it means you get plenty
customers. Because legitimate
rum is around one hundred and
forty shillings a gallon whole-
sale and the Government share
is around one hundred and
twenty-six shillings. Means you
buy a pint of rum legitimate it
costs you maybe thirty-three
shillings because the Govern-
ment gets around twenty-three
shillings. All right, Carson and
this Mrs. Amber got Willets
rum for sale in gallons and it’s
not legitimate and the sly men
pay them maybe sixty shillings
a gallon and sell it for ten shil-
lings or twelve shillings a pint,
means there’s plenty sales and
plenty more to be got if they
can supply the rum.
Right then Carson finds he
overlooked something. He
overlooked the legitimate-rum
sellers. The Willets mill putting
out maybe eighty gallons a week
that cuts down sales of legiti-
mate rum. The legitimate men
get curious. Ask questions. They
get side-stepped. Carson gets
tipped-off that some quiet coves
been along the coast with ideas
about rum. So he wires
Fredericka to throw the still
into neutral for a while and he’ll
come to Murrayfqsd and see
what next to do.
Three weeks ago he come,
,He’s alone at first, and he puts
up at the Grand in Murrayford.
He don’t go near Willets openly.
He fixes it so Fredericka and
Olnec meet him at night, out
among the ghosts at- Allendale.
He has to go through Willets to
get to Allendale, but he figures
that’s all to the good. Because
anybody watching him sees he
goes through Willets to some
other place and that leaves
Willets in the clear.
Then he sends for his secre-
tary. Because he’s got to have a
reason for being in Murrayford.
Carson was a dead careful kind
of bird. He gets his secretary to
Murrayford and gives out he’s
dealing in cars and trucks. He
buys a couple of trucks and sells
them for a small profit. His
health isn’t good, he -tells any-
body wants to know, so he’s
roosting in Murrayford on doc-
tor’s orders and doipg a bit of
buying and selling just to keep
his hand in. #
One other thing Carson over-
looked. He overlooked it be-
cause he didn’t know about it.
But soon as he comes to
Murrayford he finds out about
it —or, rather, him.
Because what Carson didn’t
know about was Jardine.
15. Jardine Again
6 6TjyHAT about Jardine?” I
* ’ says.
Fredericka leans back and
gives a sigh.
“He wanted me to marry
him,” she says.
“What!”
“He came to Murrayford the
year before Roland was killed,”
she says. “There’s a club in
Murrayford, the Civic Club.
Roland was a member, so was
Harry. He”
“Harry?”
“Harry Jardine. Roland
liked him, though Harry was a
good deal older. He used to
come out here at weekends, go
hunting or riding with us. He
and Roland were golf partners,
too,”
“How did Roland like Jardine
loving you?”
“Must you be crude, Delaney?
Harry Jardine was a gentleman.
He never said a wrong word to
me, I knew he thought—
thought—well, thought a lot of
me. But it wasn’t until after
. Roland ®as killed that he spoke
to me about —about, well, about
marrying.”
“And you knocked him
back?”
“I didn’t love him.”
“So you didn’t love hun.
Maybe Olnec beat him to it.
She didn’t say anything to
that. She sat there, staring
Straight ahead of her, her
bottom lip pulled in and a kind
of a dead look on her face.
“Look,” I says, “you and
Olnec don’t mean a thing to me.
Just you and Olnec, that’s your
business. But Jardine means a
whole lot to me. Because that
McLardie is trying to pin him
on me for murder. You get
that? You get it that I’m in a
tight jam over Jardine, so I got
to know about him. I got to
know about Olnec, too, because
he put a gun on me twice.”
She’s looking at me now, and
I see the hand holding the blan-
ket is gripping so hard the
knuckles show white. But she
don’t say anything.
“Jardine was in my room,” I
tell her. “He shot himself. The
police think I done it. I don’t
know why Jardine shot himself
in my room, but I want to beat
the murder charge I got to have
something. Now you tell me
about him, and I know about
you and Olnec. Could be Jar-
dine shot himself over you and
Olnec. Could be he knew
about you and Olnec. Well,
that’s 0.K., too. He shoots
himself somewhere else makes
it none of my business. But he
comes to my room and does it
there, that makes it my business
because the police reckon Jar-
dine had something on me and
I shot him. So if you got any-
thing about Jardine in you, Mrs.
Amber, I’m going to get it out
if it takes a week. You get
that?”
I got her looking at me now.
Her mouth is half-open and her
eyes big. Her face is tight and
now she looks more like thirty-
four than twenty-four. She
looks at me and I look right
back at her and force my will
on her. Because way inside me
there’s a ripple of excitement.
Not about her, but about this
murder charge. Because maybe
I put my finger on it when I
say that about Jardine shooting
himself over Olnec. Maybe I’m
getting right on the inside about
Jardine and why he shot him-
self. Maybe I can go out of
here and find that McLardie and
tell him why Jardine shot him-
self and make this Mrs. Amber
back me up. Maybe I can
“No,” she whispers, like she’s
shocked, “he wouldn’t I
couldn’t bear to think
She goes silent, looking up at
me with her left hand holding
the blanket together and her
right hand spread across her
throat.
“All right,” I says. “Give me
some other reason.”
“No,” she says. She writhes
on the bed and her face kind
of breaks up. “No. He knew
about Peter and me. He under-
stood. Oh, God, Delaney, you’re
twisting a knife in me. Harry
Jardine was one true friend to
me.” She turns and goes down
on the bed on her face and
bursts into sobs. Big sobs.
They shake her so hard the
whole bed shakes. #
You start a woman crying in
a thing like that and you got to
stop it or she gets away from
you. Because the crying is a
safety-valve. You let her cry
and she gets time to get her
nerve back and think of ways
to beat you. I got her where
I want her. I got her a little
hysterical and some scared and
puzzled and I got to keep her
that way. So I step over and
put my hands on her shoulders
and force her round and half-
lift her from the bed and give
her a shake. Because it’s no
time to be gentle.
“Twists you, does it!” I snarl.
“How about me! I got a rope
round my neck, Mrs. Amber.”
I shake her some more. “You
think I’d stop at anything to
get that rope off my neck you
think again. Because I won’t.
I’ll drag you into Murrayford
and make you face that Mc-
Lardie. He’ll make you talk.”
I’m holding her so her face
is close to mine and what she
sees in my face stops hef sob-
bing and she goes ■ still under
my hands and looks full at me.
I’m staring right at her and I
see the fright go out of her
face and a kind of wild, high
look come in its place. And
I know I’m too slow. Because
she’s got her nerve back. She’s
been running this Willets and
the rum-still business and she’s
got nerve and she’s had time to
build it up again. She’s had
time to build it up and get her
mind working.
She gives that little laugh of
hers and I let her down on the
bed and step back. Because
she’ll make a move now and I
got to be ready for it.
{To be continued next week)


Missing Friend
WILL JAMES HALL LIVINGSTON, who
migrated to Australia fr.om Canada about
1910, or any children, descendants, or
any person aware of their whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Manager, PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Gore,
New Zealand ? •
WILL JIM (or JAMES) WHITE and his
brother WILLIE (or WILLIAM) WHITE,
or their children, communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Albert
Street, Auckland, New Zealand, re the
estate of their brother PERCIVAL CLIVE
WHITE, - who died at Henderson, New
Zealand, on Bth December, 1953, and was
a son of MARY JANE WHITE and brother
of MARY (or MAUD) WHITE? Friends
of the persons advertised for are re-
quested to bring this advertisement to
their notice.
Missing Beneficiaries
THE children of ALFRED PAYTON, who
was bom about 1850, a son of JAMES
PAYTON and ELIZA RICE, and the
children of JAMES FREDERICK
MATTHEWS who was born in 1862, the
son of THOMAS GIBBON MATTHEWS
and MARY JANE COWLEY, are entitled
to share in the £llOO estate of BEAT-
RICE EVELYN PAYTON. Will they, or
any person having information about them,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria f
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
■
m*
.
Ideal for
YOUR KITCHEN TOO!
Beautifully finished in polished Stain-
less Steel in sizes 4', 4'6", S' and 6'
long, the latter also with a double
bowl, a Wunderlich Sink will delight
you and add beauty to your Kitchen,
too!
Ask your local Hardware Merchant
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for leaflet and
prices.
Stew*
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
£R
V II
Pad Botefcm*
iVcMMI VfM\W
TWO FORWARD SPEEDS AND INSTANT REVERSE
Double Cone Clutch Drive, right or left hand operation*
Low weight 81bs. 1 Oozs.
Can be supplied as head only for attachment
to existing drive, or complete with engine as
a trolley mounted unit.
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.*
10-14 YOUNG STREET, NEAR CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 509. Phone: BU 5093
Branches: Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga & Hay.
And at Stubbs Street, Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of old poem containing the
lines :
I’m drifting down a terrace
Sucking on a fag;
Feet as sore as blazes
And my collar like a rag.
—5799.
To buV copy of Barkers and Biters
by Robert Kaleski. —5795.
Words of verse (and name of
author) containing the lines:
And I thought about the all-in-all,
Oh, more than I can tell.
But I caught a horse to ride upon
And I rode him very well.
—5796.
Words of poem “Booligal Bill,”
published about 18 years ago, begin-
ning;
You have listened to tales of the outback
ways;
You have paused with bated breath
Of the stories told of the desperate chance
And leaps from the jaws of death.
—5798.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the name “Kosh Bulduk,”
a parish in Queensland. —5797.
Information Sought
How to get rid of cockroaches in a
home ?
There are two species which infest
kitchens, pantries, etc. —the American
cockroach and the German. The
American, reddish-brown in color, is
about l£in. long; the German,
smaller, is dark-yellow to light-
brown in color and is about -Jin.
long. The eggs of both are enclosed
in a brown horny case, or egg-capsule,
and deposited in a dark corner or
crevice. Adult cockroaches conceal
themselves during the day in cracks,
crevices and behind skirting-boards.
To control, blow any of the following
substances into their haunts by means
of a small bulb insecticide-duster, or,
in case of large premises, knapsack
dusting- or spraying-equipment —
D.D.T. powder (10 p.c.), boracic-acid,
or boracic-acid mixed with an equal
quantity of either flour or powdered
starch; powdered borax or borax
mixed with powdered chocolate;
sodium-fluoride, or sodium-fluoride
mixed with an equal proportion of
either flour, powdered sugar,
powdered chocolate or other attrac-
tive substance, or with pyrethrum at
the rate of one part pyrethrum to
three parts sodium-fluoride; B.H.C.
formulations, which are now obtain-
able in mist, spray or smoke-candle
form, and are very effective. (The
insecticides, which are poisonous, must
be kept from foodstuffs.) As means
of preventing future cockroach-infes-
tation, store all foodstuffs in recep-
tacles with close-fitting lids or doors,
keep scrupulously clean all places
where food is handled or prepared
(removing all grease from shelves,
etc.), fill with cement all cracks and
holes in walls and floors. In cases of
severe infestation, fumigation may be
resorted to, but should be done by a
qualified operator; fumigation with
hydrocyanic-acid gas can only be done
by fumigators registered by the De-
partment of Public Health.
♦ ♦ * *
Details of the Zinoviev letter of the
1920’5?
During the English elections of
October, 1924, there was published in
the English Press a copy of the
Zinoviev or Red letter, a missive
supposed to have been written by the
Russian Communist leader Grigori
Zinoviev, then president of the Third
(Communist) International and later,
in August, 1936, with Kamenev and
14 others, to be “liquidated” for
“Trotskyist deviationism” in the first
of the Soviet “pui’ges” of the ’thirties.
The letter urged the British Commun-
ist party to prepare for revolution.
Perhaps as the result of its publica-
tion the Labor party, which had been
in office under Ramsay MacDonald,
was defeated and a Conservative
Government under Stanley Baldwin
returned. (Many voters no doubt
felt that a Labor Government might
condone unbridled freedom for the
Communist party, though as import-
ant a grievance was that it had failed
to improve economic conditions in
its previous term.) It seems to be now
pretty generally agreed that the Zino-
viev letter was not genuine—though,
even if that assumption is correct,
it does not belie the established truth
that all Communist parties of other
lands do take their orders from
Russia.
* * * *
CO Number and tonnage of the
various classes in the navies of Britain
and Germany for the years 1913 and
1914 ? (2) Nqval expenditure by both
countries in the same two years ?
(1) Effective fleets, Oct., 1913 —
Britain, battleships (pre-Dreadnoughts,
40; tonnage, 589,385; Dreadnoughts,
18; tonnage, 373,350) $8; 962,735;
battle-cruisers, 8; 169,000; cruisers,
51; 568,850; light-cruisers, 72;
286,310; destroyers, 209; 136,429-;
torpedo-boats, 109; 16,156; sub-
marines, 72; 26,192. (Totals, 579;
2,165,672.) Germany, battleships (pre-
Dreadnoughts, 20; 262,065; Dread-
noughts, 13; 285,270), 33; 547,335 ;
battle-cruisers, 4; 88,380; cruisers, 9;
94,074; light-cruisers, 45; 160,532;
destroyers, 133; 71,293; torpedo-
boats, 80; 11,100; submarines, 24;
5720. (Totals, 328; 978,434.) Figures
for 1914, at least till the outbreak of
World War I, are in most classes in-
creased to varying extent. German
strength at Aug. 1, 1914, was: Battle-
ships, 39; battle-cruisers, 5; armored
cruisers, 9; light-cruisers, 45; unpro-
tected cruisers, 4; destroyers, 144;
torpedo-boats, 80; submarines, 36.
The British fleet at the end of 1914
consisted of 16 Super-Dreadnoughts
(those carrying guns of or over
13.5 in.), 15 Dreadnoughts, 40 pre-
Dreadnoughts, 50 cruisers, 76 light-
cruisers, 18 torpedo-gunboats, 23
sloops, gunboats, etc., 248 destroyers,
100 torpedo-boats, 85 submarines.
(Britain’s total new tonnage in 1913-
14, 236,408 tons.) (2) Total naval
expenditure (gross)—-Britain, 1912-13,
£45,560,213; 1913-14, £49,625,636;
1914-15, £52,261,703. Germany, 1912-
13, £22,215,000; 1913-14, £23,030,633 ;
1914-15, £23,284,531.
Brief Answers
T.H.: Correct value of the hand
is 18, made up of ten for “fifteens”
and eight for pairs A.J.K.: Write
McKendrick Bros. (Australia) Pty.
Ltd., 28 O’Riordan-street, Alexandria
(N.S.W.) 1.M.P.: Under the Dairy-
ing Employees’ (State) Award an adult
male employee is entitled to a minimum
weekly «wage of £l3 Bs. for a week
of 48 hours. An adult female em-
ployee is entitled to a minimum
weekly wage of £9 2s. for 48 hours.
Work performed on Sunday and pre-
scribed holidays is payable at time-
and-a-quarter. Overtime is payable at
time-and-a-quarter for the first eight
hours and thereafter at time-and-a-
half .. . .G.M.: Nationality of the
father is not recorded when registra-
tion of the birth”is made, and, due
to war-time exigencies the tabulation
of nuptial births, according to the
birthplace of the father, was sus-
pended for the years 1941 to 1945
inclusive. In the case of ex-nuptial
births, particulars of the father, even
if shown in the registration, are not
tabulated E.F.E.: The phrase
“All the world*” is queer save thee
and me, and even thou art a little
queer,” was said by Robert Owen,
the Welsh Socialist, on severing busi-
ness relations with his partner, Wil-
liam Allen, in 1828 G.E.G.: An
account of the “Brisbane Line” was
given in the Service Department
(B. 2/12/’53) 8.D.: It was dis-
continued during the wars N.J.:
Until 1931 it was the accepted rule of
interpretation throughout the British
Empire that the Parliament of the
United Kingdom could make laws
extending to the overseas Dominions
if it thought fit, such laws being of
supreme force in those territories. By
the Statute of Westminster (1931) the
British Parliament would no longer
make laws extending to a Dominion
except at the request and with the
consent of that Dominion; any such
Act which did extend to a Dominion
should be capable of amendment by
the Parliament of that Dominion. In
reality, of course, all the Domin-
ions are now completely self-
governing K.S.: Canada’s popula-
tion is now approximately 14,900,000.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.S.: Couldn’t quite get the hang
of “The Better Gang” R.N.: No
coronet for “No Coronet” E.C.P.:
Right off our beat A
cattle-duffing story, if it is to reach
print, needs to have more in it than
yours has M.M.G.: Calls for
brighter presentation G.M.P.: If
it would help we would be pleased
to post Mr. Beckingsale a bottle of
liver pi115.... A.8.: Too slight....
W.A.C.D.: It would take an Edgar
Allan Poe to do justice to that idea.
.... L.H.C.: Take it away....
J.D.W.: The fighting fishermen are
still in the preliminary class
E.P,: No blue ribbon for “The
Bull” 8.5.; “A Day at Sea”
might click elsewhere E.N.: Your
first effort didn’t pass muster, but
try again J.K.C.: Michael is a
boy after our own heart. Unfortun-
ately he didn’t last the distance
H.8.Y.: It travels a well-trodden
path H. 8.: Liked the details and
the background, but the story seems
to have been pasted on J.S.S.: It
missed only because we get too many
in a similar vein F.H.F.: Try
another paper. Incidentally, it would
help if you could get your contribu-
tions typed K.E.G.: It could
have been told more effectively in
half the space P.T.T.: You’re
about half a lifetime too late with
that yarn... .J.C.H.: It arrived much
too late... .0.M.K.; Referred it to
our guardian angel, who said “No.”
K.H.: You’re using the wrong
bait J.R.: You are this Week’s
gloomiest bard... .P.M.A.: Well, at
any rate, it was a good attempt,
even if it did miss N.D.: Not
including “Carrie” among our pin-up
girls M. W.: Began promisingly,
then tailed off at the end R.C.: It
didn’t score our vote J.R.: It
contravenes the Literary Short
Weights Act H.V.C.: It is time
Mother came home J.T.: Try one
of the dailies that go in for such
brevities E.G.: Far too sentimen-
tal for us R.W.: An unconvinc-
ing ending P.G.: “The Lonely
Man” has plenty of company in the
basket K.McA.: Still puzzled as
to what it was all about D.J.H.:
Ghastly G.W,: It won’t buy you
any chicken dinners M.M.P.:
Poisoned-mushroomS yarn is merely
a variant of the poisoned-damper
plot T.V.: Type your material it
possible. If not, write legibly on one
side of the paper and allow a gener-
ous margin B.McP.: Afraid that
you are not well versed in “The
Gentle Art of Selling Manuscripts.”
R.P.: You snared a bright idea,
but didn’t put it to the best use
A.W.N.: Fifty years ago it might
have stood a chance 8.5.8.: Put
it into prose... .R.N.W.: Generally
speaking, we prefer a manuscript
written in and about Tibooburra than
in and about Peeblesshire
J.E.0T,.: That twig was bent the
wrong way M.P.W.: Those two
missed the bus, but would be pleased
to have a look at further efforts
D.G.: More suited for an English
magazine N.P.: Another case of
there being many a slip betwixt the
P en and a linotype slug D.D.:
Heavy-handed humor....M.C.: We
left Mr. Popsom searching for his
false teeth in his basket S.L.H.:
Hasn’t the necessary sparkle ;
An unimpressive curtain-call
A.A.: There is a bottomless shaft
in our basement to where such stories
are consigned R.D.: It might
interest a glaziers’ trade-journal....
C.G.: Hardly worth the price of
a pot of beer J.A.C.: It finished
near the foot of the poll W.L.H.:
Dwelling at the bottom of the w.p.b.


“Since we bought THE WORLD’S
FINEST COOKER we have a
WONDERFUL HOT WATER SUPPLY!”
<jrv
(Q
St
mssi
/l
&
■K The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
«</
* r **
d 9<j,
*<»//,
* ~ Vi ‘
ft-A. . "A o
u
Oft
"»e/
/
"It not only cooks the most delicious
meals effortlessly, but it supplies all the
hot water we require . . . direct to our
kitchen, laundry and bathroom.”
“And that’s not all! Its fuel consumption
is incredibly low ... in fact, it’s guaran-
teed never to exceed 5 tons of coke per
year.
“Our AGA has two k hot-plates and two
ovens, one oven fof roasting and baking,
and the other for simmering. It can cook
a meal quite by itself, and creates no
fumes, smoke or soot.
“Believe it or not, AGA even helps to
‘air-condition’ our kitchen.”
“There were no extras when we purchased
our AGA. Levin & Co.’s expert installed
and demonstrated the cooker. They also
supplied a wonderful set of utensils and
all the flue materials, which were in-
cluded in the price. AGA to me has been
a wonderful investment.”
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
ASA Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
XP3
POST TO DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
HEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A, G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., Perth
eo
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage I*
absorbed Into the solL
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free'illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS; “
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mo-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd, Raffles Place.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
UNIQUE
FARMERS’
BOY LAWN-
MOWER.
fd
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you :
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young" 9t., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.. 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
PA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SAND-DUNE COUNTRY
Under modern methods of
development, sand-dune country
on the west coast of the North
Island of New Zealand has been
proved capable of increasing
production in dairying, and fat-
lamb raising, says B. A. I.
Smith, Department of Agricul-
ture Field Instructor, Palmer-
ston North (N.Z.).
, The area now under develop-
ment lies between Paekakariki
and Patea, and covers 250,000
acres of sand-dune vary-
ing in depth from one to 12
miles. Sands range from loose,
shifting dunes on the foreshores
to stabilised dunes, which, in
turn, give way to fertile flats.
To-date development prac-
tices have mainly been confined
to better-class consolidated sand.
The natural cover of the
country of scrub, gorse
and lupin; cabbage-trees and
flax flourish around the lagoons ;
the natural pastures which spring
up in the clearer areas are poor
types.
Initial work covers prepara-
tion of the land with a heavy
swamp-plough, which, turning a
furrow 2ft. 6in.'wide and 12in.
to 14in. deep, uproots the scrub
and turns it under. Heavier
scrub is first flattened with a
scrub-crushing roller. Firing of
bulk-rubbish ensures easier
ploughing and a better surface
for cultivation.
Owing to the sandy texture of
the soil a stroke with disk-
harrows, followed by a stroke
with tine-harrows, is usually
sufficient cultivation for crop-
sowing. If the area is going
into grass, further tine-harrow-
ing and a rolling with a Cam-
bridge-roller are needed. The
grass-seed is broadcast, lightly
harrowed with brush-harrows
and rolled again. Sowing is
usually delayed until after the
autumn rains.
Where wet flats have formed
between dunes, drainage-work
is done before pastures are
sown. When well-grassed the
sloping-sided V-drajn used in
this region improves soil condi-
tions and makes for the safe
passage of stock and imple-
ments.
A pasture-mixture giving
good results on the sand con-
sists of (per acre): short-rota-
tion grass, 121 b.; perennial rye-
grass, 121 b. ; cocksfoot, 81b.;
white-clover, 31b. j red-clover,
21b., and subterranean-clover,
31b. —making a total of 401 b. of
seed per acre. Patches inclined
to dampness are oversown with
strawberry-clover. Top-dressing
of these pastures maintains them
in first-class condition. At sow-
ing-down 2cwt. to 3cwt. of phos-
phate is used ; a similar dressing
in the spring stimulates clover-
growth. Subsequent dressings
are given each autumn.
Smith warns that pasture-
management in this sand-country
calls for careful practices. Over-
stocking can lead to opening-up
of the sward and rapid deteriora-
tion of the stabilised dune. In
consequence, in the first years
grazing must be light, to give
the various species a chance to
develop. Allowed to grow long
in the first summer, they estab-
lish firm root-systems, protect
the young clover and set about
reseeding. The tight sward
which develops stands up to dry
spells. Heavy grazing not only
means a loss of pasture-plants
but an influx of weeds and
general loss in production.
Numbers of the areas
ploughed during winter and
spring are sown to turnips, rape
and lupin for fattening of lambs.
Approximately 3cwt. per acre
of phosphate is applied with
each crop. This soil does not
require lime.
When stock have finished-off
the crop in the autumn grass-
seed is frequently broadcast on
the rape-stubble and trampled
down by a mob of sheep. As
strong winds sweep off big
quantities of top-soil, all areas
are sown to crop or grass as
soon as possible after ploughing.
Formerly this sand-country was
used only for wintering dairy-
stock. One farm of 250 acres
received development-treatment
in 1940. Today it carries 98
cows and replacement stock; in
the 1952-53 season butterfat-
production reached 1761 b. per
acre.
On a similar farm of 490
acres development-treatment was
begun in 1935. This carried 600
sheep and wintered 45 dairy-
cows. As a result of ploughing,
regrassing, drainage and top-
dressing the same acreage now
carries 700 sheep and 100 dairy-
cows. Lambing ’percentages
range from 95 to 104 per cent.,
80 per cent, of the lambs being
fattened. Dairy-production has
reached 1681 b. of butterfat per
acre.
Properties showing these im-
proved returns are sheltered by
thick belts of cypress, which, as
well as cutting off strong wes-
terly coastal winds, stop the
sand from drifting. Local con-
ditions aside, it shows what can
be done with a similar type of
country in all parts of Austra-
lasia.
C. H.
Potatoes for Stock
“Springvale”: When prices
are low it pays to feed potatoes
to stock. Water-content is high,
so don’t overestimate their feed-
value. Low protein makes it
necessary to feed with bran or
pollard. But fed in moderation
(not more than 201 b. a day),
potatoes are as good as any
root-crop for milkers. Assum-
ing, of course, that you can’t get
rid of them more profitably.
Potatoes have a laxative action
on cattle ; so watch for scouring,
and drop rations when neces-
sary. With grain and skim-
milk, potatoes make a good
ration for porkers.
In this part of Victoria we
feed boiled potatoes to pigs.
Usual ration is meat-meal
(or |gal. separated-milk) and
Ulb. to 21b. ground-grain or pol-
lard daily, per pig, and as many
boiled potatoes as they can eat.
As they grow they naturally eat
more. Several local men have
furnaces for quick cooking
made roughly from bricks,
stones and clay; no mortar.
Short pieces of old iron cross-
wise support kerosene-tins, or
drums. About 9in. of space is
left underneath for fuel. An
opening one end allows long
pieces of wood, branches and
so on to be used—saves chop-
ping wood.
When cooked,’ the potatoes are
tipped into a box to drain, then
into a large barrel. A small
lump of fat added to each tin
makes them more palatable ; so
does a little pollard, mixed into
a mash with the potatoes, and
separated-milk added to make a
thick soup. A few peas, and a
taste of maize, if handy, make
a really tasty dish.
For cows potatoes may be
chopped or fed whole. The
danger is potatoes sometimes
stick in a cow’s throat. Most
cows enjoy crushing them, but
sometimes one slips down and
sticks. Best way to shift it, I
find, is to give the cow a cup of
machine-oil. Don’t try to
squeeze it out; only makes the
throat swell.
Urea
“Dooper”; Here, if the farmer
wants fertiliser, he hasn’t much
choice as to the form in which
he gets it. Phosphates, for
instance, come practically in one
form —super. Nitrogenous fer-
tiliser is mostly sulphate-of-
ammonia. And so on.
We’ve become used to it, may-
be ; but it isn’t always conveni-
ent. In America and other pro-
gressive countries this take-it-or-
leave-it method of supplying
fertiliser-requirements is a thing
of the past.
Large quantities of| nitro-
genous fertilisers are required
annually in Australia, particu-
larly for sugar-cane, fruit-trees,
rice and vegetables. Local pro-
duction of sulphate-of-ammonia
meets only about half these
requirements; the rest is im-
ported.
Urea is one of the more
recently-developed forms of
nitrogenous fertiliser used in
other countries, where it has
been found particularly suitable
for application in the form of
a spray to the leaves of fruit-
trees and leafy crops. In this
way it is immediately and com-
pletely absorbed; therefore
(because of availability), it is
superior to the application of
sulphate-of-ammonia to the soil,
where some may be lost by
teaching or rendered inactive in
cold weather.
Following promising results
in Australian tests, some urea is
now being imported by interests
outside the local fertiliser firms.
Sooner or later other forms of
fertiliser will be imported.
White-eye
“Tea-tree”: I disagree with
“H.” (B. 5/5/’54) regarding mea-
siyes to be taken to avoid white-
eye in ducks, although he echoes
many authorities. Comfortable
housing, green-feed and adequate
vitamin A in the diet are neces-
sary for healthy growth and
good fattening ; but to eliminate
this disease I have taken the
advice of a correspondent in a
local weekly and supplemented
the diet with vitamin C. Since
then the only casualties in my
duck-yard have been from acci-
dental drowning.
Vitamin C can be obtained
from chemists in ascorbic-acid
tablets; it is - added to the
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
After the May rains there is likely to be a period of
rain-sh'ortage over all but the far north and the southern
belt, with some reliefs in late July and early August and
fairly general rain in October.
There is still a possibility on the astronomical cycle
which could produce some rains that could have come in
March. This, however, is only a possibility.
In parts of the N. S. Wales coast there may also be
some erratic rains, and the onset of the drier period is more
irregular over that State than in Queensland.
The present absence of sunspots makes erratic points
more stressed: should the new epoch begin (which it may
do at any time) effects would be further modified and for
the better.


*'M> mate’s feeling bad. you can see*
But me? Why, I’m well as can be.
He was marked with a knife.
It may cost him his life,
But they'used Elastrator on me
The "Elastrator" method of marking and tailing over,
comes all the objections of methods of the past.
Lambs suffer practically no shock and no set-back.
Losses are almost eliminated and fly-strike is con.
siderably reduced.
Elastrator Instrument .... £6/6/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) .. ... ... 30/-. plus freight
Elastrator Loader £5/5/-. plus freight
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
. . For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
new S
title
e
ici
ADVANCE
INCORPORATED IN
LIQUID “PHENOVIS”
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
new Vrmulation of extremely fine particles
WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO THE 4th ANNUAL REPORT OF C.5.1.R.0.
16. Internal Parasites.
(a) Studies on Anthelmintics, — (i) Phenothiazine.
—lt was mentioned last year that very finely ground
phenothiazine appeared to be more effective than com-
mercial grades of the drug. Trials carried out during
the year have shown clearly that large particle size
greatly detracts from efficiency. A sample in which
98 per cent, of the particles ranged from 46 to 76
microns in diameter was of such low efficiency that a
dose of 20 g. left large residual infections with
Haemonchus contortus, whereas 10 g. is usually highly
effective against this parasite; a finely ground sample,
in which 99 per cent of the particles were 10 microns
or less in diameter was highly efficient, not only against
11. contortus but also against less susceptible worm
parasites such as Trichostrongylus spp. (black-scour
worms) and Oesophagostomum columhianum
worms). It
comme
Release of Liquid
‘Phenovis’ has been
delayed pending the
results of exhaustive
tests see extract.
These latest scientific
developments have
been incorporated in
the new Liquid ‘Pheno-
vis'—the most efficient
worm drench for re-
moving internal para-
sites in sheep.
LIQUID PHEHOVIS’
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
»r■ • . \
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
c
'HE. 81X.3474— ■
drinking-water, one dissolved
50mgm. tablet to each gallon.
This is done from the day-old
stage on, for two months at
least. The tablets may seem
expensive, but the cost is neglig-
ible compared to possible loss
from the disease. I am also of
the opinion that the complete
immunity of my ducks to this
and kindred infections has
accounted for their improved,
unchecked development. My
Muscovy ducklings market con-
sistently at 14 weeks at near 51b.,
and drakelings at 16 weeks at
9i to 9ilb.
Crosscuts
“Clunesman”: Hay cut at
Cornell University (U.S.A.) had
1001 b. more sugar and nearly
half a ton more dry matter to
the acre when cut late-afternoon
(compared with morning).
“Queensland Country Life” had
a report of something similar
here lucerne-growers baling
hay at night, in summer. Secret
of prime, leafy hay, apparently,
is letting hot sun cure it
thoroughly, then leaving it un-
disturbed in windrows until dew
moistens the leaf and prevents
it leaving the stalk. Monto (Q.)
farmers bale from 7 p.m. until
11 p.m. (when the leaf becomes
too wet). Modern balers can
do 4-500 bales in this time. Then
a few hours again in the morn-
ing after some of the dew has
dried-off. A strict schedule like
this makes it essential to have
machinery in A 1 condition, of
course,
* * *
A number of farmers told the
Dairy Industry Investigation
Committee at Lismore (N.S.W.)
that they considered ss. a pound
a reasonable price for butter
(that is, ss. a pound to the pro-
ducer). This, they said, would
represent cost -of - production
plus a 20 per cent, margin
(“Northern Star” report).
In England, by and large, there
was no rush to buy the first off-
the-ration butter offered for
open sale since 1940. Devon-
shire farmhouse butter sold at
Barnstaple Market for 10s.
(sterling) a pound.
A. Nardi (State president,
A.P.P.U.) at Bega (N.S.W.) ex-
pressed the opinion that Aus-
tralian butter should be sold on
the open market; that a better
price would be obtained than
under the agreement with the
U.K., and that-if “butter was
the same price in comparison
with the basic-wage as it was in
1939 it would be Is. 9d. a pound
dearer” (“Bega District News”).
#. • • •
The agreement for bulk-buy-
ing of Australian butter by the
U.K. continues until the end of
next season, with some adjust-
ments within the per cent,
limit of the contract on the
basis of rises in England since
derationing. Price for 1953-54
for Australian butter was 3265.
sterling per cwt. —that is,
3s. 10.8 d. Australian per pound.
* * *
Various reactions to the U.S.
threat, or promise, to sell surplus
butter on the world market at
competitive prices, including a
Note delivered by N.Z. Am-
bassador Leslie Munro formally
protesting at what was called a
move “likely to exert undue
pressures on world prices.”
N.Z. and Denmark are the big
exporters of butter to the U.K. ;
and these sales may be said to
determine world prices.
• • • <•
“The Times,” on the consum-
ing end, comments (in a leader)
that if American butter could
be obtained cheaply it “would
serve a useful purpose.” The
Australian attitude may be de-
fined as something between the
two: not a consumer, and so
not likely to benefit by cheaper
butter (world-price), and not so
vitally interested as a producer
as is New Zealand. This (rela-
tively) detached outlook be-
comes clearer in the light of an
announcement early in the month
by the Queensland Butter Mar-
keting Board that unless there
were good rains that State’s
shipments of butter to the U.K.
for the current season would be
stopped; surplus would prob-
ably be needed for N.S.W.;
also, possibly, some from Vic-
toria.
New Zealand’s exports to the
U.K. are likely to fall by about
20,000 tons this year. The U.S.
has on hand a growing surplus
about 130,000 tons —and
whether this can be sold at
competitive prices overseas de-
pends mainly on how far U.S.
farmers can persuade the Gov-
ernment to bolster costs with
high domestic prices. On a
straight free-market basis it
seems unlikely that U.S. butter
could compete. Previously sur-
plus U.S. butter was offered for
sale at the domestic price of 60£
cents (about ss. 5d.) a pound.
But, as “The Times” remarks,
the U.K. is not likely to be
interested in butter even at 47
cents (about 4s. 2d. a sound).
An acceptable price would be
nearer 40 cents.
Russia bought considerably
more butter than usual last year,
and is reported to have “shown
interest” in the American sur-
plus. So the situation remains,
as the war communiques say,
fluid.
♦ * ♦
Innisfail (Q.) had 11 Sin. of
rain for the year, up to early
May; four dry days in April
(“North Queensland Register”),
Armidale (N.S.W.) district has
been declared a drought-stricken
area (“Northern Daily Leader”).
Orange (N.S.W.) “Western
Stock and Station Journal,”
checking with a Broken Hill
agent on earlier accounts of
drought-conditions ' in those
parts, found them exaggerated.
* *
“The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s policy to decontrol
cornsacks is a heavy blow to the
wheat industry” (A. C. Everett,
Victorian growers’ representative
on the Australian Wheat Board).
• , # • •
“Woolgrowers will welcome
the return of a free trade (in
jute), particularly for wool-
packs....” (R. D. Bakewell,
Chairman Australian Wool-
growers’ Council).
* * ♦
First of the new season’s beef
loaded at Bowen and Towns-
ville (Q.). The Devon, due in
Townsville last Thursday after
loading at Bowen, will be fol-
lowed by the Paparoa (from
New Zealand) early in June.
* ♦ •
Peanut-growers on the Tweed
(N.S.W.) are looking for a
market for their crops: sheds
bulging and no buyers in sight.
* * *
“A.C.T.”: Bores and water-
storages are to be constructed
on the Glencairn to Thargomin-
dah and the Camooweal to Mt.
Isa stock-routes. This, in part,
will come from the £150,000
approved by Federal Parliament
for water-facilities on certain
routes under the Encouragement
of Meat Production section of
the States Grants Act. Com-
monwealth has also accepted
half the cost of equipping
Camooweal town bore for use
by travelling stock.
* * $
Sugar quota to be cut 25 per
cent. (International Sugar Coun-
cil recommendation to exporting
countries —25, including Aus-
tralia).
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have, to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Division of Labor
Efforts being made by Labor spokes-
men and leaders to present a united
front to the Australian electors on May
29 can’t disguise the division which
exists in their ranks. There does not seem
to be one major point of policy upon
which some evidence of Labor’s disunity
can’t be found. A few typical examples :
Means Test :
“Within the life of the ensuing Parlia-
ment Labor will eliminate the means test
entirely:”— Dr. H. V. Evatt, in labors
policy-speech on May 6, 1954.
“Complete abolition of the means test
within the life of a single Parliament
would be a calamity which would wreck
the whole structure of our highly desir-
able and successful social services.”—
W. M. Bourke, Labor member for Fawk-
ner; {Sun-Herald,” 28/3 / ’54).
Nationalisation ; ,
“In the course of time the Common-
wealth Bank will be the only bank in
Australia, By competition it will force
the private banks out of existence and
thus the private banking system will be
nationalised without the necessity to pay
compensation to the private banks.” —
A. A. Calwell, in the House on October
11, 1950 {“Hansard” No. 25, page 633).
“The courts have made it clear that the
Constitution prohibits Parliament from
passing laws by which Australia-wide
trade, industry or services could be
monopolised by a Government.” — Dr. H.
V. Evatt, at Canberra on March 12, 1953
{Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” 13/3 / ’53),
Secret-ballots in Trade-unions:
“This measure [Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Bill to provide for secret-ballots
in trade-mfions] is a further example of
the Government’s apparent determination
to bring forward legislation which is
against the will of the trade-union move-
ment.” — Dr. H. V. Evatt, in the House
on March 15, 1951 {“Hansard,” Vol. 212,
page 580).
“I am in favor of the Menzies legisla-
tion for secret-ballots and I will do all I
can to convert other members of the
Labor party to this viewpoint.”— J. M.
Mullens, Labor member for Gellibrand,
in Melbourne on April 11, 1951 {Mel-
bourne “Age,” 12/3/’5l).
Television :
“The Labor party made television a
Government monopoly and it will keep it
that way.”— A. A. Calwell, in Melbourne
on November 24, 1952 {“Sydney Morn-
ing Herald,” 26/11/ ’52).
“Australia will probably rely on a dual
system in which the Australian people
.will own a service and commercial stations
“Hope y' don't mind plain tucker — bird-o’-paradise stew again ,
cookboy."
will also do so.”— Dr. H. V. Evatt, in
Canberra on November 25, 1952 {“Syd-
ney Morning Herald,” 26/11/ ’52).
Defence:
“The Labor party will give the utmost
co-operation to the Government in all
undertakings that are designed to
strengthen the defences of the country.”
—Dr. H. V. Evatt, in the House on July
11, 1951 {“Hansard” No. 10, page 1410).
“As a matter of fact this [National
Service] bill is unnecessary... .Mem-
bers of the Opposition do not intend to
oppose this bill.”-— Senator Benn {Labor,
Queensland), in the Senate on March 7,
1951 {“Hansard" No. 1, page 44).
“The compulsory military training of
young men of 18 years, as proposed by
Mr. Menzies, will shatter the economy of
Australia.” — A. A. Calwell {Melbourne
“Age," 28 /11/’49).
Constitution :
“The next Federal Labor Government
must not be hamstrung by constitutional
barriers.”— E. Reece, A.L.P. Federal
president, in Adelaide on January 19,
1953 {Melbourne “Age,” 20/1/’53).
“Parliament is the Parliament for the
time being only, and it does not neces-
sarily reflect the will of the electorate for
all purposes and at all times.”—Dr, H. V.
Evatt, in “The King and His Dominion
Governors” {page 298).
Dollar Loan:
“The Government has set out to destroy
Australian secondary industries, and it is
proposing to bring into this country by
means of these overseas commitments a
large quantity of equipment... .that
could be produced by Australian indus-
try.”—E. J. Ward, in the House on Sep-
tember 19, 1952 {“Hansard," No. 20,
page 1808).
“I do not think that any sane Aus-
tralian considers that there is any grave
danger in borrowing dollars at this par-
ticular time.” — L. C. Haylen, Labor mem-
ber for Parkes, in the House an Septem-
ber 19, 1952 {“Hansard” No. 20, page
1822).
Communism :
“The Communists are a collection of
pathological exhibits.... stand-over men
.... paranoics, degenerates, morons....
a pack of dingoes.... industrial outlaws
and political lepers,.. .ratbags mugs.”
— A. A. Calwell, in the Sydney Domain
on July 31, 1949 {“Sydney Morning
Herald,” l/8/’49).
“If I were to permit myself to be drawn
into a philosophical discussion I could
show that every aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world is based
on the teachings of Christ.” — E. J. Hollo-
way, then Minister for Labor and
National Service, in the House on October
10, 1947 {“Hansard,” Vol. 193, page 645).
“I do not regard the Communist threat
as being substantial because the Com-
munists are numerically weak.” — E. J.
Ward, in the House on June 21, 1951
{“Hansard’’ No, 5, page 252).
It seems absurd that a political party
so obviously divided should aspire to the
government of Australia. —D. L Killen,
64 Nicholson-street, Greenslopes,
Brisbane <Q.).
Grammar
“Wackford” (B. 5/5/’54) is right about
the faulty grammar of Australian chil-
dren, but he’s wrong when he advocates
abolition of teaching it.
Some children don’t and won’t con-
form, but there’s always a sprinkling of
pupils with sufficient intellectual curiosity
to want to speak correctly, and who will
be glad to be able to prove that they
are correct. After all, if one is* taking
chemistry it is necessary to learn the
mechanical laws governing chemical re-
actions; similarly, if the subject be Eng-
lish, the student can hardly be well-
versed in that tongue if he completely
ignorant of its mechanical structure.
“W.” quotes Fowler, but I would point
out that a fair working-knowledge of
grammar is necessary if that excellent
tome Modern English Usage is to convey
anything at all to the reader.
“W” is confusing two issues. It’s
almost axiomatic that children will speak
badly if their parents do, and teachers
have always found it an almost insuper-
able task to fight the home influence on
grammar. But why punish the child who
does speak well by robbing him of a
knowledge of the grammar of his mother
tongue?
You may have in your class embryo
journalists, novelists, teachers and so
forth. Are you going to let them flounder
“Is that your joints creaking or your pants splitting?”
along with only their own sense of what
sounds correct to guide them?
The best way to appreciate and under-
stand English and the mechanics of its
grammar is to learn another language. A
child who has learnt French and Latin,
granted that he has the intelligence to do
so, will have English grammar at his
finger-tips. He will never confuse an
adverb with an adjective. Inflexions, in-
finitives, auxiliary verbs will hold no
terrors for him. Added to which, by the
way, his vocabulary will be enlarged by
correlation and his mind opened to a
much wider world. — Recla (N.S.W.).
In a quarter of a century’s teaching I
have found that children properly taught
grammar from the first have no difficulty
with it, though it seems that in Queens-
land we have got rid of quite a few
terms (subordinate and co-ordinate con-
junctions, relative adverbs, etc.) that still
trouble “Wackford” (B. 5/5/’54).
Of course, grammar can be made a
fetish, and too many examiners prize the
exceptional difficulties instead of the
broad rules of the road. But grammar
should never be divorced from that con-
stant usage of the correct phrases and that
incidental correction of everyday errors
in speech.
Grammar is theory, speech is practice ;
and, as in all disciplines, the two should
go together. Practice without theory is
invariably blind ; theory without practice
is sterile. Children make best progress
when they not only speak correctly, but
also know why certain forms are wrong.
Pedagogically, it is not enough to keep
on telling children that certain forms are
wrong. In time that arouses contra-
suggestion in them and they rebel. They
want to know why. That is where gram-
mar comes in. It should have given them
the principles involved, the reason why
certain things are wrong, the logic of
correctness.
“W.” seems to give too great a role to
euphony. Euphonically there is nothing
wrong with such sentences as: “You are
as good as me,” “I do it like you do,” or
“All but he had departed.” They will
eventually be said by children as they are
by careless speakers and writers every-
where unless the reasons for their being
wrong are known. That can’t be done
without grammar.
Eliminating grammar, in any case, is
purely a negative process, and could easily
result in an anarchic formlessness of
speech. It is like saying a man would
move better if he got rid of his stiff, ugly,
unnecessary skeleton. So he would —if
he were a worm. Grammar is the back-
bone of language.— Martin Haley (Q.).
Atomic Power?
There has been a good deal of talk
about the future of atomic power in Aus-
tralia, particularly in the less-developed
areas where there is no electricity at
present, but is anything being done about
it?
Britain, which seems to have taken the
lead in developing atomic energy, will
have a full-scale plant in operation at
Dounreay, Caithness (Scotland), within
four years at most, and possibly within
three years. British scientists having
overcome the enormous problems m-
volved m building a “fast” reactor, are
putting one into this pioneer plant, WI h
its 250 ft.-high safety-dome, and, in the
words of an official statement issued by
the U .K. High Commissioner s office in
Canberra, “may offer the prospect of
atomic energy in industry for all by 1963.
I mention that this was announced in
Canberra because, so far, there is no
evidence in the national capital of
genuine interest in the subject beyond the
insistence that some undisclosed quantities
of our uranium must be reserved for our
own use at some undisclosed and pre-
sumably remote date in the future. —
Mugoa Way (A.C.T.).
Westralia’s Gold
A trip through the Westralian gold-
fields in 1939 was an interesting journey
through thriving towns, townships and
mining-camps. Today it is a depressing
drive through heaps of rubbish and dead-
marines—all that remains of the little
one-pub, one-store settlements.
Before the war goldmining was worth
more to Westralia than wool and wheat
combined ; now it is struggling to recover
from the setbacks of the war-years and
against an ever-rising spiral of costs.
And the artificially-fixed price for its pro-
duct does nothing to help out.
In 1939 there were 15,000 men engaged
in goldmining in W.A. During the war
the number fell to 4500, and today the
figure is only 6000; Kalgoorlie, Norse-
man and Southern Cross account for 70
per cent, of that total.
The present depressed state of gold-
mining in the West is due to many things
—fixed price for gold, costs and high
wages, Government apathy, and dispro-
portionate demands by the trade-unions.
As far as State politics go, Labor adopts
the attitude that, no matter how much or
bow little is done for the industry, gold-
fields’ seats are “safe.” The Liberal and
Country members look to gain nothing
politically from the widely-scattered gold-
fields electorates.
In the Federal sphere both Liberal and
Labor have made only half-hearted efforts
to have the fixed price of gold altered.
They have never afforded help such as
Canada has given to its goldmining indus-
try. They have not even permitted the sale
of “gold in the native state,” a measure
which enabled the goldminer in the U.S.A.
to dispose of part of his gold for a price
around $44 per 'ounce,'as against the
fixed price of $35 per ounce.
True, the Westralian Government has
done more for the industry than other
State Governments have done for theirs,
but that was mainly in. the past. The
many State batteries that were erected
in those days served the prospector well
in their time, but stamp-battery practice
for ore-treatment has been out of date
for years. Moreover, in spite of gener-
ous cartage-subsidies to prospectors, the
radius around each of the State batteries
has become stretched to an uneconomic
limit for all but high-grade mines.
The introduction of portable treatment-
plants—which are operating successfully
in many countries, particularly in the
U.S.A. —has been side-stepped by every
State Government, although money has
been freely handed out for less promising
propositions.
With a State Government obsessed with
the idea of establishing secondary indus-
tries, money for goldfields’ needs is prac-
tically unobtainable. Added to which


rail-freight rates on goldfields lines,
already high by any standard, have gone
up by successive increases to well over
50 per cent, since 1939.
Kalgoorlie mines have now reached
the stage where deep-mining reveals a
progressive falling-off in grade with
depth and with a progressive increase in
working temperatures. The Chaffers
shaft of Lake View and Star is the deep-
est on the field (4300 ft.), and the main
ore reserves in the Great Boulder are
below the 3100 ft. level. In a few years
the unions will be pressing for air-con-
ditioning for the underground workings.
Directors of most mining companies
of the Kalgoorlie field have erred in the
past by being dividend-hungry and
putting off many costly but vitally-needed
changes in plant and equipment. The
cost of electric-current per ton of ore
mined in Kalgoorlie is probably the
highest in the world for a big field, yet it
is only recently that companies have
made a move to put in their own power-
plants. That excepts Lake View and
Star and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
which have had their own power-stations
for many years.
The Great Boulder has a new power-
plant in part operation, but the rest of the
companies are dependent on the Kal-
goorlie Power Corporation, with its out-
moded, steam-operated electric generat-
ing-plant. Firewood, which cost 19s. per
ton before the war, is now 575. Collie
coal, which cost 30s. per ton in 1939, is
now 70s.
Most of the Kalgoorlie companies still
retain the antiquated 50-year-old, steam-
operated winding-engines on their shafts
instead of the modern electric-winder.
Industrial relations have been and still
are very good—there has not been a
major dispute for over twenty years—but
about three years ago there was a minor
dispute over rates of pay for piece-work
underground. The union won, and as
a result we see machine-miners on piece-
work receiving more pay than the under-
ground bosses.
With, modern equipment such as light
rock-drills, pneumatic machine-bars and
tungsten-carbide-tipped bits the work of
the machine-miner is no longer arduous or
dangerous. Statistics show that goldmining
ranks only eleventh on the danger-list for
industry in the State. The miner works
a 37f hour week and pay envelopes con-
taining £llO for the fortnight are not un-
common.
On many: of the smaller mines outback,
where piece-work is not practicable, the
earnings of the miner are more reason-
able, although still high in comparison
with other industry.
What of the future? In various dis-
tricts there are known and partly-proved
lines of reefs, with potentials not far short
of the present-day Kalgoorlie reefs.. The
lodes in these districts are shallow in depth
and contain free-milling ore, unlike the
highly refractory ore of the deep Kal-
goorlie lodes. To get these mines started
in the face of Government indifference
is going to be difficult, particularly with
the investing public falling over itself to
put money into any new company that
contains the magic words “oil” or
“uranium.”
True, there is in the capital cities money
available for any tax-free investment such
as • goldmining, particularly for small,
high-grade mines, but it is not so readily
available for the large, low-to-medium-
grade mine, although that would be by
far the greater producer over the years.
A revival of the industry, important to
the Commonwealth and doubly important
to Western Australia, will need a more
sympathetic attitude by both Govern-
ments. To attract the prospector and
investor. Government policy should be
aimed at good all-weather roads, im-
proved facilities for treating prospectors’
ore, a new and enlarged scheme for the
systematic diamond-drilling of promising
areas# and more realistic help in the
matter of water-supplies for both domes-
tic and treatment purposes. Then there
are needed concessions in income tax and
subsidies for transport—road, rail, sea
and air—to help reduce the cost of mining
and other materials.
The recent move by the United King-
dom to permit payment in gold in all
countries of the sterling bloc indicates that
gold is still a potent factor as a medium
of exchange, but ownership of the gold
is still a prerogative of Government. The
way in which gold is still being snapped-
up for hoarding indicates that, if the
individual were permitted to own it, all
the gold in Fort Knox would disappear
in a night, such is the fear of people for
unstable paper-money and managed
currencies.
Gold is still a dollar-earner, and a firm
“It's high time the Government did something about transport!"
statement of Governmental ways and
means of helping to revive the industry
would reassure the company-promoter
and investor alike. — Queue d’Argent
(W.A.).
Flying Doctor Service
“Outback” (B. 13/1/’54) is hardly fair.
Since the opening of the Flying Doctor
base at Charters Towers (Q.) many air-
strips—and good ones, too —have been
put down by station-owners, some at con-
siderable expense in heavily-timbered
country.
The "shires of Dalrymple and Flinders
have assisted by making their road-build-
ing plant available to graziers at a figure
which just covers costs. As the heavy
machinery moves round the district more
strips are being and will be built.
As far as I can ascertain the Flying
Doctor Service has not had to do any
construction or maintenance of airstrips,
nor will it have to as long as the country
people are given reasonable encourage-
ment.—A. W. S. (Q.).
The 40-hour Week
Every new substitution of machine for
muscle in industry means displacement of
human labor in some degree. In the
aggregate the saving in man-hours is
enormous.
Certainly the shortening of the working-
week shouldn’t hog all the benefits of
modern machinery. But the saving is so
great that, even after caring for better
service to the consumer, extra profits and
legitimate; reserves, reduction of working-
hours should be possible still.
In the Wider sphere, competition by
longer-working nations is a tough pro-
blem, admittedly ; but surely the broad
objective should, be tar false.; their ,con-
ditions to ours, rather than depress ours
to theirs. — Bulloak (N.S.W.).
From Wells to Cahill
I also can recall the hopes and beliefs
I held at the beginning of the century
(B. 5/ 5 / ’54), chiefly due to reading
Blatchford’s Merrie England and Britain
for the British.
The doctrinaire Socialism of Wells,
Shaw and others, with “its dogmatism,
intolerance and the ferocity with which it
clung to the very letter of the law of the
Scribes and Pharisees as preached by
Marx and interpreted by Hyndman his
prophet,” was no part of the Socialism
of Blatchford.
Blatchford mistakenly believed, like
many more of us, that, owing to the in-
nate goodness and commonsense of
human beings, Socialism could be estab-.
lished by consent and without coercion;
that the ethical rightness of Socialism was
so obvious that once it was properly ex-
plained and grasped it would be accepted.
There Was no place or need for coercion
in “Merrie England.” Such was his, and
our, belief. But look at England and the
world today, half a century later!
Shaw held that true Socialism was
quite immoral and that Blatchford’s
Socialism was built upon a sentimental
lie. To this Blatchford retorted that Shaw
seemed to think that nobody believed in
truth or virtue really, and that those who
said they did believe in them were either
too blind to see or too cowardly to speak
the truth.
In 1920 George Lansbury’s “Daily
Herald” wrote of the U.S.S.R.: “Dis-
cipline—iron-rigid discipline of the
workers by the workers—is needed in
Russia. It will be needed here [Britain]
whenever the workers come to power.
We have no love for coercion of any
kind, but we cannot visualise a modern
State without it. Our choice is for the
compulsion which aims at transforming
the chaotic anarchical struggle of today
into the ordered co-operative State of
tomorrow.”
Blatchford was horrified, and com-
mented, “If this is Socialism, Then I am
not and never was a Socialist. On hun-
dreds of occasions I and others, who
thought we were Socialists, have laughed
when anti-Socialists have declared Social-
ism and slavery to be synonymous terms.
But now ‘The Daily Herald’ argues that
the anti-Socialists were right and that we
were wrong.”
Whereas Blatchford rejected the idea ot
coercion and compulsioii, mistakenly
believing that Socialism could be had
without it, Shaw was under no such
delusion, and to his dying day advocated
and supported Socialism with all its com-
pulsions, controls, restrictions and regu-
lations.
Blatchford in his novel: The Sorcery
Shop : An Impossible Romance, published
in 1907, gives his ideas of the ideal
Socialist society, something far removed
from the world of today.
Blatchford was, like many Others, a
mistaken idealist who hoped to persuade
people and, failing, gave up. Shaw and
his kind were also idealists, but not mis-
taken. They were prepared to compel
other people when persuasion failed, and
therein lies the difference. They were
determined that their ideas of what was
good for other people should in the last
resort be imposed by force, even death or
worse. Shaw in the “Labor Monthly” in
1921 wrote: “Compulsory labor with
death as the final penalty is the keystone
of Socialism.”
The odd thing is that Shaw, Wells and
their kind were confirmed individualists
who never would have survived in a
Socialist State. They would have been
the victims of their own medicine, and
would have been liquidated for deviations.
—C. H. Christopher (Vic.).
Stamps
The fact that the P.M.G.’s Department
caters through philatelic bureaux in the
capital cities at face-value for stamps and
at competitive prices for other philatelic
material does not mean that has
entered the “postage-stamp racket” (B.
12/5/’54). It simply provides—as do
Canada, the U.K. and the U.S.—what
collectors and philatelists (there is still a
difference) require.
The bureaux were set up at the request
of prospective customers, and are wel-
comed by the hobby, which has nearly
one hundred societies in Australia and
New Zealand, including three of the
world’s “Royals,” the other two being
London and Cape Town.
Another point; our “appalling designs
are very few. Since 1946, thanks in large
measure to the Stamp Design Advisory
Committee, our Australian designs have
had a new lease of life. Some of them
have been excellent and the overall stand-
ard high. The quality of the engraving
has been of the best and reflects great
credit on the craftsmen who produce it.
It has been an unfortunate fashion for
many years to knock our Australian
stamps, but overseas collectors hold them
in high esteem. —R. H. F. (N.S.W.).
Degrees Galore
In most Asian countries university
graduates are at a premium, but
apparently this does not apply to
India. In a Canberra address Professor
S. F. Nagel, who holds the chair of
anthropology at the Nat. Uni., said that
in India of those who graduate only
economists and law students could be
sure of lucrative employment. He warned
that enthusiasm for university education
in India might lead to the emergence of
a vast class of white-collar unemployed,
“an intellectual proletariat” which could
threaten political stability, and ultimately
the ideas of democracy. — Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 279
Across
I—Terrifying1—Terrifying occupation for opti-
mistic “eggshell blondes.” (4-7)
6 —The tailless made angry. (3)
B—An Athenian of Shakespeare is
to curve hushing noises for
republicans. (15)
10— Cut off when the sun climbed up
backwards, and fed. (8)
11— Louse’s egg about saltpetre. (5)
13 — Watson’s were both medical and
legal luggage. (5)
14— Sacrifice Tom to the disorderly
mob. (8)
16 —Look like the hearty part of
Eire’s emblems. (8)
19—-“ Argus” crushed cane. (5)
22 One lays six to one with regard
to feathered layers. (5)
23 Study abbut a tree playwright.
(8) . .
25 — Our fancies exercise this one
meeting three wise men on an
''aboriginal headland. (15)
26 — One body-building activity with
the flat fit. (3)
27 Dejected Diana to cleanse the
venerable. (11)
Down
1 — Division of a race, in anger. (4)
2 Must his improper Panama illus-
trate it? (7)
3 Unconfirmed reports say the
liquor belongs to us. (7)
4 Two boys are all at sea west of
(A)
5 Goddess to dye in the
Valley of Hinnom. (7)
6 The peasant whose gid Don
Giovanni stole is to make mother
fight. (7)
7 Barnes upset the Noble stand
occupants, when he cuts through
the leg and throws his hand
away. (10) ,
9—Gave off vapor re-lengthened.
(6)
12 —An old wound on a dead tongue
with a disease. (10).
15—Sounds like a movie horse. (6)
17 — Aspirant drops a continuable
consonant. (7)
18 — Mink and much-diverted human-
ity. (7)
19 — Haggard character to put up with
a moderately sized adversary for
Goldilocks. (3-4)
20 — Leave verse to the Slim cry of
enthusiasm from the remove.
(4, 3)
21—A pound in the circle is abnor-
mally white. (6)
24_Accustomed to American editor.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 278


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd,, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE UIMITED
36
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
WILL WOOL OR MAN-MADE FIBRES
CLOTHE THE WORLD’S
MILLIONS?...
From the progress that has been made on the synthesis of new types
of man-made fibres since the last world war, it is clear that they are
here to stay in ever-increasing quantities. On whether the demand for
fibres of all kinds continues to expand at a higher rate than the increase
in synthetic fibre production depends the future well-being of our Wool
Industry.
Australia produces one-fourth of
the total world output of wool,
and nearly one-third of all apparel
wools. Wool has earned between
40 and 60 p.c. of our export
income over a period of years. A
fall of one penny in the average
price of wool means about £4
million less export-income to
Australia. It follows that if,
through the competition of syn-
thetics, prices do fall, the economy
of this country might easily be
completely shattered.
It has been demonstrated in no
uncertain way that economic re-
cessions place heavy burdens on
every section of the community,
Primary Producer, Industrialist,
Worker and Professional Man
alike.
To avoid such a danger, the
course is clear. Australia must
continue to depend on the Wool
Industry, to “ride on the sheep’s
back.” Therefore, the Wool In-
dustry itself must be strengthened
to withstand competition. The
quality of Wool, and the efficiency
of the Industry must be improved
and a start must be made now,
while there is still an opportunity.
Some Facts About Wool And Its Synthetic Rivals
Estimated Total World Produc-
tion of Synthetics, 1954: 783.8
million lbs.
World Wool Production estimate:
2,300 million (lbs.) (clean).
These figures show that already
synthetics have reached the start-
ling total of more than one-third
of Wool’s Production.
Production of synthetics in the
U.S. A. (the world’s largest pro-
ducer and consumer of these
products) rose from 15 7 million
lbs. in 1950 to 487 million lbs.
in 1953. A conservative estimate
of production capacity in 1960
has been made at 975 million
lbs. Other large producers of
synthetics in 1954 are Great
Britain (67 million lbs.), Japan
(38 million lbs.). Other countries,
including Spain, West Germany,
France, and Canada (34 million
lbs.).
From the point of view of wool,
the rapid growth of synthetic
fibre production in the U.S.
will probably be less dangerous
than that of trading countries like
U.K., Japan and Germany.
These countries, with Italy and
France, which also produce syn-
thetics, are the main buyers of our
wool.
In any case, we can easily price
ourselves out of the market. Take
a look at these comparisons. The
average price of synthetics (ex-
cluding Fiberglas, which is unsuit-
able for clothing) in the U.S. as
at March, 1953, was 1.66 dollars
per lb. At the same time, Natural
Wool’s price was 1.70 dollars per
lb. Synthetic manufacturers claim
the following advantages for man-
made fibres as against wool:
1. Essentially equivalent “wet
and dry” properties.
2. Retention of pressing, pleats
and shape.
3. Easy laundering and quick-
drying.
4. Resistance to chemicals,
moths, mildew, and insects.
5. Strength, durability greater
than wool.
Against this, comparatively recent
development of synthetics has not
given time to fully test their
qualities. Most important, how-
ever, are the inherent advantages
of natural wool, all of which have
yet to be duplicated in a synthetic.
Amongst Wool’s advantages are:
1. Versatility. Wool has a
combination of characteris-
tics, including strength,
superior elasticity and resili-
ence.
2. Wool retains its crimp, mean-
ing better warming and in-
sulation capacity.
3. Wool has a high heat of wet-
ting.
4. Wool is resistant to damage
by chemical fumes, one of
the major weaknesses of
synthetics.
5. Wool has greater affinity to
dye-stuffs.
6. It also has greater resistance
to flaming in contrast to syn-
thetics, which can be dam-
aged when exposed to rela-
tively low-temperature heat.
However, history has shown that
low price is usually of greatier
importance in the long run than
quality . . . the ousting of pure silk
by rayon, for example. That is
why cost-of-production is of such
critical importance in the Wool
Industry today.
HOW CAN THE WOOLGROWER COMBAT
THE SYNTHETIC THREAT?
The “tots” in the photo look cute in the latest Paris fashions for
children. They’re Nylon fabrics, but only an expert could tell the
difference in appearance.
A three-point attack, namely on flock improvement, production costs,
and handling methods, is the way to save our greatest industry.
Wool has inherent advantages,
and to improve them still further.
Governmental and other bodies
are devoting energy and money to
scientific research. But the main
problems can be solved only by
the grazier.
Growers have been repeatedly
warned that unless steps were
taken to eradicate some of the
problems associated with the
handling of our clips, particularly
brand stains, tar, and skin pieces
in the wool, “we would be play-
ing right into the hands of oppon-
ents.”
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., through their
long experience in the design and
manufacture of Shearing Gear, as
well as their practical experience
as Shearing Contractors, have pro-
duced a machine which obviates
the faults of earlier gear, and so
improves the quality and quantity
of wool output. Moffat-Virtue
gear is designed to suit Australian
conditions, where fleeces are
heavier than in other parts of the
world.
The introduction of the revolution-
ary Ball-Bearing Headgear
stopped carbonised oil getting on
the fleece. Then came the other
improvements exclusive to
Moffat-Virtue Gear: Full Float-
ing Transmission and Shock-Ab-
sorbing Down tube. These entirely
new principles of shearing gear
design have meant that second
cuts are reduced, bruising of sheep
almost eliminated and wool
growth improved through the
elimination of damage to wool
follicles in the skin of the sheep.
The design of Moffat-Virtue Gear
permits a constant cutter speed to
be maintained whether the Down-
tube is hanging loose, and even
when the shearer has it fully
stretched out on the long blow.
Moffat-Virtue Shearing Machinery
is available for immediate instal-
lation in Standard Overhead
Gear, Electric Gear, Portable
Plants, and Conversion Gear. For
further particulars of Australia’s
most efficient and up-to-date Gear,
contact any of the Distributors
listed below who will explain the
advantages only MoflFat-Virtue
Gear can offer you.
