

THE HOUSE
sdf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
ANGLO-AMERICAN DIFFERENCES — PAGE 28
“The Bulletin/* Vol. 75—No. 3887
Wednesday, August 11, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
KNOWN TO MANXMEN THE
WORLD OVER, PEEL CASTLE
ONE of the most interesting of the many
islands that comprise the British Isles is
the Isle of Man, known throughout the world
as the venue of the annual Tourist Trophy and
Manx Grand Prix motorcycle races.
The island stands almost in the centre of
the Irish Sea between the coasts of England,
Scotland, Wales and Ireland. Its history, not
unnaturally, considering its location, is long,
chequered and often tempestuous. Celts from
Ireland, Norsemen, Scots and English have in
turn dominated it. A thousand years ago King
Orry of Norway appeared on its western shores
near Peel. Asked whence he came, he pointed
up at the Milky Way and answered proudly:
“That is the highway to my Palace.”
The Norsemen left behind them many curious
reminders of their occupation, many of which
remain to this day in place names, carvings
and relics. Most important of all, however, is
the Norse system of government which still
functions in this modern world. Its most striking
feature is an open-ajr ceremony, known as
Tynwald, which has been observed annually
without a break for a thousand years. At this
ceremony, which takes place on the sth July,
the laws passed by the island Parliament during
successive legislative sessions are promulgated to
the people from the hill of Tynwald.
On the western coast of Man is the ancient
city of Peel in which past and present mingle
to form one of the most picturesque centres on
the island. The old fishing village with its
narrow, winding streets crowd closely around
the harbohr which is the headquarters of the
Manx fishing fleet. Rising above the Isle ot
St. Patrick, which is joined to the mainland by
a causeway, are the impressive ruins of Peel
Castle, dating from the 15th century. The
castle and also the ruins of St. German’s
Cathedral are enclosed by a high b'attlemented
wall of the 16th century and built of red sand-
stone. The oldest portion of the Cathedral still
remaining is the 11th century Norman chancel,
beneath which was a dungeon in which those
who had incurred ecclesiastical displeasure were
imprisoned.
During its long history the castle has been
used as a prison, and among its noted captives
was Eleanor, wife of the Duke of Gloucester,
who spent the last seven years of her life under
sentence of witchcraft. Fenella’s Tower and
Cave are associated with this event in Sir Walter
Scott’s Peveril of the Peak. The imprisonment
of Edward Christian in Peel Castle in the 17th
century was the inspiration of another character
which appears in the same book, and the legend
of the Mauthe Dhoo or Black Dog of the castle
appears in Scott’s “Lay of the Last Minstrel.”


The Red Page
GREEK DRAMA
F. L. Lucas's Greek Drama for Every-
man (Dent) is not, thank the gods, any-
thing like as ambitious as all that. Mr.
Lucas is prepared to be popularly enter-
taining on the side, in notes and com-
ments, and is good at it; but he is not out
to turn the caviare of Attic drama into
fish-paste for the general.
He briskly surveys, and rather sharply
criticises, the whole galaxy of the Greek
dramatists in turn chronologically,;
makes fine English verse-translations of
one or two chosen plays and of specimen
passages of the other plays of each of
them (possibly as dramatically effective
as the nature of the originals permits,
and in any case very pleasurable as read-
ing) ; explains a,way obscurities and helps
the reader along with approximate pro-
nunciations ; sketches in the setting and
the times in which the plays were written
and performed ; and, as a further atmos-
pheric surround, tosses in picturesque
bits of information about them and their
writers and other things. It all helps,
quite effectively, in giving a sense of
participation:
On every side of an ancient Athenian lay
these scenes of a legendary past; and, also,
the challenge of a threatening future. He
lived dangerously—between memory and
menace. For him the “old unhappy things”
were not far off; the battles of “long ago”
might return tomorrow. The hill-tops of
his enemies looked in upon his very market-
place —as if in sight of central London
loomed the frontiers of Germany and of
Russia. /Eschylus, ten years after fighting
at Marathon, of which he seems to have
been prouder (as Scott would have been)
than of writing eighty plays, saw the
Acropolis itself taken and its temple laid in
ashes.
Mr. Lucas, Cambridge University
Reader in English, wears his scholarship
lightly, packing whole books into sen-
tences and libraries into paragraphs (in
one brief paragraph he comments on the
blank-verse styles of Milton, Fletcher,
Wordsworth, Tennyson, Browning,
Arnold, Landor, Beddoes and Dryden.)
Information (helpful with atmosphere
and engaging on its own account) could
hardly be more compactly or less pain-
fully administered;
Alexis: “An Italiot Greek from Thurii,
naturalised at Athens, and the uncle of
Menander, he lived over a hundred years
and is credited with 245 plays.” (Against
the findings of the learned beings who
compile statistics, it may seem surpris-
ing how many of these old dramatists
managed to survive to almost biblical
years. Also, they worked; Menander,
though
Drenched with perfume, in long-trailing
robe,
With delicate and languid pace he came,
in his 33 writing-years produced over a
hundred plays; and even Aristophanes,
who apparently took it comparatively
easy, is credited with a higher total than
Shakspeare, throwing in the Bard’s
doubtfuls.)
The actor Polus (Mr. Lucas tells us),
when playing in “Electra,” once used
an urn with the real ashes of his own
newly-dead son —“a curious, but hardly,
I feel, very admirable source of inspira-
tion” ; and maybe not, but at least it
indicates how they felt about their
theatre; instanced also in such things as
the Athenians being said to have made
Sophocles a general for having written
“Antigone,” or, because another of the
dramatists, Eupolis, fell at the Hellespont,
their forbidding poets henceforth to be
sent on active service ; or in this honoring
(and dishonoring) of a general successful
in the wars and, of course, semi-ruler at
home:
Here [in “The Knights”] Aristophanes
renews his assault (though the play hardly
mentions his enemy’s name) on the detested
Cleon; who, by capturing a Spartan force
cut off on the island of Sphacteria had
just risen to new heights- and received
among other distinctions the right to a front
seat in the theatre, from which he may have
watched this vilification of himself as the
most odious of charlatans.
The Elizabethan Trust and its players
—and playwrights—would have to lose
their senses, and people (and especially
Governments) come to theirs, to get
within long-range cooee of the feeling
for theatre which all that represents. It
hovers around Socrates, standing up in
the audience when his name was dispar-
agingly mentioned and remaining stand-
ing throughout the performance of “The
Clouds,” in which Aristophanes scurri-
Jously attacked him; it is present even in
the story of Cratinus, mocked by that
same emperor of mockers in “The
Knights” as a senile tippler, retorting by
defeating “The Clouds” next year with
a comedy about his own bibulousness.
In a more general way of information
(or light relief) Mr. Lucas has such asides
as:
Even the exact meaning of tragoidia
(“goat-song,” from tragos, “goat”) is dis-
puted. The name may have arisen because
the Chorus were originally dressed in goat-
skins ; or dressed like goats; or because a
goat was sacrificed; or because a goat was
once the prize....
“The Clouds” seems the best of the plays
[of Aristophanes] to translate here in full:
though I must own that I should have been
sorry to imitate the enthusiastic Mme.
Dacier in reading it through two hundred
times before doing so.
Puck was a clodhopper to this sort of
jet-propelled knowledge flitting over
centuries and continents;
Though his Oreste was played by an actor
of nearly seventy, so prodigiously fat that
his belly had to be supported by an iron
girth, Racine’s play gained at once a success
it has never lost.
Prepared to throw these sops around
at large, Mr. Lucas is, however, definite
enough about his Everyman: “I believe,”
he says, that the first duty of a classical
trahslator is simply to aim at giving sen-
sitive readers the same sort of pleasure
as they would get from reading the
original with a reasonable knowledge of
the classics.” So Everyman is, in fact, a
verse reader ; and Mr. Lucas is reassur-
ingly confident about him, and about
himself: indeed full of fight and defiance,
nailing to his masthead Preface, from
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” the
complete translator’s Jolly Roger;
Quince: Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee!
thou art translated!
Bottom: I see their knavery; this is to
make an ass of me.
Under that bold rag he does his con-
fident translating, in blank verse and
rhyme (appropriately varied to represent
the straight dramatic dialogue and de-
clamatory passages of the originals, and
their choruses, lyrical outbursts and the
like); and also, by way of practice, and
to keep his powder in fighting trim, he
sails heartily into whole convoys of other
translators of the Greeks, particularly
verse-translators (there’s no doubt about
your verse-maker: if he can’t fight he
can’t write; a quality especially essential
in translators, professionally buccaneers
to a man):
Professor Gilbert Murray has persistently
preferred the rhymed heroic couplet. He is
one of our very few verse-translators who
are also poets (sometimes, indeed, I find
him better than his originals); his render-
ings may seem often too free, too romantic,
or too Swinburnian, but they have music
and style of their own; and few men have
done so much to keep Greek poetry a living
influence in England. None the less I have
never felt happy about his rhymed dramatic
dialogue. Like Dryden, he here seems to
be attempting something alien to the English
ternpea'ament. What in French can become
a stately convention, in English tends to
leave a sense of unreality and artifice.
Again (laying down a sane but a seem-
ingly difficult rule for translators):
Much as I admire Fitz Gerald, I can see
no justification for inserting passages of his
own in Omar and yEschylus. One should
neither add, nor omit, anything essential
without saying so. As a rough-and-ready
rule, a translation seems to me too free if
it could not conceivably be retranslated to
give the original text.
And also (on the translator’s duty “to
be true to the spirit, the personality of
his author”):
Chapman, for example, was untrue to
Homer’s personality when he made him
“conceited”; Pope, when he made him a
too correct man of the world; Samuel
Butler, when he made him slightly vulgar.
Mr* Lucas’s mayhem is free and im-
partial: he extends it as heartily to his
Athenian playwrights. His appreciations
of them fall shorter of idolatry than
translators in general usually manage;
in some instances —Sophocles perhaps,
and Aristophanes surely—a good deal
shorter than merit in perspective would
seem to warrant. His approach alto-
gether is critical; rather for an audience
of critics. Of, for instance, Euripides
(referring to Medea’s children):
I do not really care about their being
butchered, because I feel they are butchered
for my benefit. Ungrateful perhaps. But
authors should be careful of too deliberately
wringing their hearers’ hearts; nothing
grows tougher than a heart too deliberately
wrung.
Further of Euripides:
One begins to suspect that he is out to
draw tears; and virgins should not be used
as onions.
And of his, originals as a whole:
Even at its best, I feel, Attic drama was
never to regain the supreme heights of
Homer, or to rival those of Shakspeare.
Still (he implicitly allows), those
“supreme heights” are admittedly rather
lofty peaks; and if not Homers or
Shakspeares on those planes, at least
these fellows may be—shall we say,
Shaws and Eliots? And if Mr. Lucas, in
his commentaries, summaries and asides,
is no missionary, nor worshipper either,
and may even be thought lacking in
respect, when he does get down to his
translating—of the tragedies, at any rate
—he is a different man altogether; work-
ing with a warmth of feeling and en-
thusiasm which makes his translations
read often like original works; modern
at least in the impression that they might
have been written for some idealistic
kind of radio broadcasting, with even
archaisms where the tone requires
them:
And to the Heroes —ye who sent us forth,
Bless this returning host the spear hath
spared!
Halls of our kings, all hail! Walls long
beloved!
Seats of our mighty! Gods that front the
dawn!
Now, of all times, with bright and sunlit
faces
Greet fair our lord that rides, at long last,
home.
Another sort of homecoming (though,
of course, it did not work out quite as
the Herald hoped for Agamemnon,
either):
This bitter homecoming has broke my heart,
Broken my heart, my brother.
Let me come join thee in thy narrow room,
And dwell beside thee in the House of
Death,
Dust with thy dust for ever.
Or, with a modern enough applica-
tion :
Though now ’twixt Thebes and thee all be
fair weather,
Yet infinite is Time, and infinite
The days and nights his passage brings to
birth,
Wherein they may dissever with the spear,
On slight occasion, this pledged har-
mony ....
These may do as fair representative
samples of Mr. Lucas’s adequacy in blank-
verse renderings: one sample will indi-
cate his equal adequacy in rhyme (the
hoopoe calling up his subjects in “The
Birds”):
Hoo-poo-hoo-poo-hoo-poo-oi!
Ee-o, ee-o! Gather, gather, gather O!
Birds of a feather, come flock together —
Come from the fields that the farmers sow,
Tribes without number that eat their barley.
Peckers of grain,
Darting and chirping, softly, clearly,
As ye settle and rise again,
Searching the furrows, chattering cheerly
Your sweet strain;
Tio, tio, tio, tio!
Modern translation in the best sense
of the term ; and at the top level. At
least, very far above the painfully
familiar “popularising” of so much latter-
day translating. “When,” comments Mr.
Lucas, “a modern poet, however gifted
in other ways, makes Turnus cry:
‘A3neas, where are you off to? Don’t
welsh on your marriage-contract,’ a
deeper melancholy seems to settle on the
phantom face of Virgil.” He himself
aims at “a mean between the vulgar and
the stilted”:
And if anyone finds the ancients linguistic
snobs, that is a matter of taste; but it is
not a translator’s business to reform his
authors. One might as well act “Antigone”
in shorts and sweaters [worse has, in fact,
been done]. Indeed it would be less mis-
leading. For no one would suppose it
represented the original.... At all events it
is a falsification to render by go-as-you-
please metres and hail-fellow-well-met col-
loquialisms that deliberate loftiness which
Greek tragedy gradually evolved.
What seems rather curious about all
this very busy translating of the Attic
drama —there has been an extraordinary
amount of it over the last thirty years or
so—is the doubt, hinted by Mr. Lucas
himself, as to whether that “deliberate
loftiness,” or the bulk of the rest, is now
really dramatically playable at all . . .
“Nothing,” says Mr. Lucas, commenting
on the imitation Greek dancing usually
added to the general torture, “is more
distressing and depressing in modern
revivals than the spectacle of a dozen old
gentlemen or young ladies in white sheets
mopping and mowing about the stage”
—one passably potent reason why “one
may prefer Greek tragedy in the study
rather than in the theatre.”
And Greek comedy, of course, since
it practically means Aristophanes, is
naturally right out of the question. You
must have it in the “study” (if you can
get it) or nowhere. These days, getting
Aristophanes even there might prove
impossible, apart’from cost. The effect
that the best translation of him—the
anonymous prose version published by
the Athenian Society, London, in 1912
—would have on our Customs clerks and
on the Constable Dogberry who gives
his shocked evidence in book-prosecu-
tions is something too dreadful to think
about. Still, perhaps there may be con-
solation of sorts in some remarks of Mr.
Lucas which seem to say we haven’t this
altogether on our own:
The Athenians did indeed, in a moment
of political passion, execute Socrates at
seventy, though only after giving him plenty
of chance to escape (in Plato’s Republic or
in half of modern Europe he would have
been liquidated long before): but, with
only an occasional call to order, they
tolerated Aristophanes. In our own world,
with its gangs of censors snipping in bureaus
and police spies sniffing under doors, that
at least is something to look back to, and
up to, with admiration and regret.
An odd fellow at times, this Mr. Lucas:
despite all that, nobody could sniff more
resoundingly than he does when, after
enjoying himself so well among the
tragedies, and being surely a cause of joy
in others, he comes at last to that same
ribald. Athenian-tolerated Aristophanes.
Here his fragments—like the hoopoe
lyric—are well enough; his one full
translation (of “The Clouds”) seems com-
paratively sad stuff. He seems to have
found it rather hard, in lavender gloves,
holding his nose with one hand, and
with the other writing with a pair of
tongs.
The War at Sea
A 600-page, minutely-documented
official British history of the Navy’s part
in World War 11, The War at Sea (H.M.
Stationery Office), begins with war-pre-
parations in 1938 and ends with the sink-
ing of Prince of Wales and Repulse by
Japanese torpedo-bombers. It is the first
of three volumes, written by S. W. Roskill,
an executive captain of the R.N.
Much has been said of the “too little,
too late” complex of the British; this
might be true in substance, but Captain
Roskill shows that as early as January,
1939, the Admiralty’s plans for a conflict
with Germany alone, or with Germany
and Italy combined, were approved ; and
not much later a special section of the
Trade Division was formed to “plan and
organise the defensive arming of the
whole British Merchant Navy.”
On the political side, “In spite of the
growing menace of the international
outlook, the Government of the day con-
tinued up to the eleventh-hour to pursue
a policy of doing nothing upon which
Hitler might place an unfriendly construc-
tion. The impact on naval preparedness
was, of course, serious.”
These quotations indicate the impartial,
and fearless, approach of the historian.
Writing crisply and clearly, he criticises
the seagoing Fleet as much as he does
those in Whitehall responsible for its
dispositions. Not that the volume is a
mere parade of mistakes; but, in a Ser-
vice popularly supposed to be capable of
no wrong, errors in fighting tactics have
more impact than the sometimes glorious
deeds by which mistakes may be rectified
The Bismarck, for instance ; the largest
scale action covered in the first volume.
This battle is described fully—a welcome
change from that of the Graf Spec,
handled in little more than a page —with
the author adding some color to the epic
hunt.
A pitiless dissection of tactics reveals
that, early in the fight, Hood and Prince
of Wales approached Bismarck and Prince
Eugen at such a fine angle on their bows
that only half of the British guns could
be brought to bear on the enemy. Bis-
marck and her consort, on the other
hand, were admirably placed to open
with full broadsides from all guns. As
the First Sea Lord commented shortly
after the action, the British squadron had
gone in “fighting with one hand only
when it had got two,” which “certainly
wanted some very good reason.”
British radar, too, was faultily oper-
ated, Prince of Wales gaining no results
from either of her sets throughout the
action. Both ships’ radar had been fully
tested the day before they sailed on the
operation (the author should know —he
was the officer detailed to go to Scapa
Flow and carry out the testing).
With Hood sunk by excellent gunnery,
and Prince of Wales under heavy fire
from both enemy ships (she received five
15-inch armor-piercing shells inboard, and
three eight-inch) the action was broken
off. Not before, however, Prince of Wales
had got in two 14-inch punches which,
puncturing Bismarck’s fuel-tanks, caused
her to abandon her projected Atlantic
sortie and to run into the net of 19 major
warships which the Admiralty was order-
ing to intercept her. Till, at the end,
“gradually the range was reduced to what
justly can be described as point-blank
target-practice. By 10.15 the giant battle-
ship had been reduced to a flaming
shambles, and all her guns were silent.”
A history covering all the movements
and actions of hundreds of British war-
ships cannot, of course, dwell too long
on any one of them. But the Bismarck
story is told with such vividness that one
must regret that too often, when leading
up to a well-remembered battle, the
author decides that “the details of the
attack which now took place would go
beyond the scope of this narrative.”
The book is excellently illustrated with
maps, chartlike in their efficiency, and
with a series of dramatic photographs not
seen before.
MACNELL.
Two Tours
In our schooldays all of us (anyway,
those who caught the cricket bug early
in life) looked up to the cricket heroes of
the day as veritable gods ; despite which
((Continued on page 35)


• <<> s’ ■* •*v • a :;to
-
mm
" * Ot»v * <
'V .V
SSS
11l
* • ili.
ii
i«i
&
r>
: :
II ■ ■
:v- ;
a 4 g X JV >
' ' '' ,
- "
", M
ill
M
siiltlf
%
* , . *x/' £
:«
a ■::
m
MiMlii mm
$Q
': ..-W’'' „■
88 i;v,i.:
m
aw #Ss^ot;V;
,■ • ->>
Si
HU
£i
m-i
st
»y v '*isyW3^
■ ■ ’ ' ' ■-; ■■ ■■•' ■. ■• '■'
MB
- o
Finest quality cord lines, tackle
boxes, scrapers, hooks and spinners.
Varnished baskets
In strong reinforced cane. Three sizes. 1 7in. x 12in. x 1 1 in.
at 75/-, 1 Sin. x lOin. x Sin. priced at 52/6, and 1 Sin. x Sin.
x 6in. at 39/6.
Linen Cord lines
Irish linen cord lines. No. 27, breaking strain 541 b., priced 7/-;
No. 36, breaking strain 721 b., at 8/6; No. 48, breaking strain
1001 b., price 10/-. Braided cutthunk, will not kink, 601 b,
breaking strain, 30/-. All prices per 100 yards.
Scrapers
Combination scrapers, for cleaning and scaling. In strong
stainless steel. Priced at only 6/6 each.
Aeroplane spinners
In two sizes. Small size priced at 8/-, larger size 9/-.
Platil Lines
Smooth, strong, monlfilament. Breaking strain 4.21 b. at
2/9, 5.71 b. 3/-, 7.51 b. 3/10, 9.51 b. 4/2, 11.81 b. 4/9, 14.31 b.
5/5, 171 b. 6/1, 23.21 b. 7/10, 29.51 b. 10/5.
Tackle box
Tackle box, with division for hooks and sinkers, priced at 12/6.
Anthony Hordern
fishing supplies!
X
i rt
">V
*\\l.
w> XT,
•f>\°
SC
w
/#
x
/
0
sesM*?
■acy <^
<• •*>" tl?
S .i* o, #si>‘
n G^ni
d !
® v v. -
A. Keep your fish alive!
Our fish-keepers are sturdy,
15/-.
B. Ringed hooks, sizes !, 2,
3 and 4, priced 1/- to 5/-
per doz.
C. Galvanised wire fish
traps. Single entrance and
double entrance, 19in. x
Min. x Min., 52/6; 30in.
x I Sin. x 18in., 67/6.
D. Single shot rifle cover
in canvas, will wear well, is
priced at 30/>.
E. Knife in a sheath that
has a compass at only 30/-.
mm
an
m
mm
m
II
m
m
*
S 3
m
m
I
E
sUf
m
mm
m
m
wm
m
S 85
I
Si
&JS
i's
1C
•;;w:»:ssaSS2s^*ii
22 Cal. Rifle. Single shot, bolt action. German made. With graduated
rearsight and bead foresight. Positive safety barrel, length 22£in. Price
£7/10/-. Civic shorts 11/6, long 12/6 and long rifle 13/4 per 100.
TRUTH tN ADVERTISING
Horderns
Yes, you may
or mail your order.
GUNS AND FISHING TACKLE LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 2401.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 11, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3887
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
INSURANCE v. THEORY
Against the irritating and distracting murmur from
<‘t £ ro ° t „°PP osi tion bench, which has become part of
Labor s technique on great occasions in Parlia-
ment, the widest audience ever arranged for an Aus-
tralian Prime Minister heard Mr. Menzies on Thursday
night discuss the defence problems of the Common-
wealth and South-East Asia. His speech was relayed
to 50,000,000 listeners, and did credit to the country;
an impressive, and at the same time dispassionate,
performance in oratory.
Unfortunately there was not much to say in
concrete terms about future action, since the position
is a fluid and changing one, depending on trends over
which neither Australia nor any other Western nation
has any control. But it was necessary to say something
so that the country should be aware from the beginning
of its responsibility in the thin-ice period which will be
embraced by the next few years, and that outside
aggressor countries should have no doubt what its
attitude would be in the event of further Communist
advances.
The Prime Minister defined clearly Australia’s
international platform; Dr. Evatt set out, in
a carping and political way, to undermine the impres-
sion created by his statement and to present the
Communist bloc with the picture of a divided Com-
monwealth.
The Prime Minister said that Australia
will co-operate to the full with other nations and
U.N.O. for the abandonment of war as an instrument
of policy, but that “until that happy day comes” when
there is no danger the country will make particular
regional arrangements for defence with her friends,
but not alliances for aggression, which she will not
provoke, “either by pusillanimity or weak appease-
ment,” or by being “trigger-happy.” We would not,
he said, accept the doctrine that war is inevitable—a
doctrine as disastrous as the purely pacifist belief that
unilateral disarmament is the way to peace. The only
assurance of Australia’s security at the present time
and in the immediate future must be based on binding
commitments with our friends, which we “must be
prepared to support with arms, with men, with ships
and instruments of war, with supplies, as we in turn
would wish to be supported by them.”
These are not merely words. They are the
basis of concrete action which the country is prepared
to take, and would take whatever Government were in
power; and that despite Dr. Evatt’s grizzling about
them.
It is quite obvious that some of the more important
countries of Asia —India, Ceylon, Burma and Indonesia
—will take no active part in the South-East Asia Treaty
organisation which is likely to be the concrete frame-
work of Pacific defence. With them Asian nationalism
is temporarily of more importance than political
systems, or they believe so, or perhaps, living so close to
the borders of the bullies, and being almost helpless
in the face of adjacent military might, they are
fatalistic and are prepared to compromise and hope
for the best. Indonesia especially has little to hope for.
And the supine policy of the rest is only likely to lead
them into the Communist fold, since Communism,
unlike the Western world, does not tolerate the thought
that there can be any perfection save under Leninism-
Marxism. The Communist understands only force.
He lives in peace-time under a law of crude official
aggression; he is not averse to bloodshed, because he
believes that the mass (leaders excepted) matters, and
not the individual, who has the right to exist only if
he conforms to the mass-pattern with servility.
Communism is aggressive by nature and cannot
be anything else without ceasing to be Communism,
since it teaches, as the very basis of its creed, that
until all the world has been brought under its heel there
can be no calm in the universe, and that existence is a
struggle for ascendancy, with death as the loser’s
penalty.
As Mr. Menzies states, it might be a basic axiom
of our thinking that the leaders of the Communist
bloc understand nothing but strength in those whom
they are openly planning to destroy by slow attrition
through “liberation movements,” through little wars or
debilitation by huge defence programmes forced on
their peoples by threat of attack. And the only fault
to be found with the idea of a Pacific Ocean defence
combination is that its ambit is not wide enough. A
world menace calls for world unity in defence.
The economic implications of the Prime Minister's
speech are that Australia must not look forward to
great concessions in taxation or great industrial
advances unburdened by defence commitments The
insurance-policy must be kept up in terms of whatever
agreement interested Western nations mutually decide
adv ! sable f °r security. And it need not be thought
that the premium will be light or the precautions
enjoined by the war underwriters’ rules anything but
onerous. The necessity cannot be shrugged off.
nu- D u ? Vatt ’ ? f c ° urse > is convinced that if Indo-
Thina had been handed over to the distracted locals in
if 4 ! 5 /iS r A he -f ear a , f ! e [ Ward . S ’ and P laced under the wing
of U.N.0., it would have been a different country and
the Asian story a different story. Dr. Evatt is evidently
dipping m logic, and his memory has lost its tautness.
He has forgotten what happened to China, which Was
one of the great Powers of U.N.O. with a veto, when
to its own devices; he has also forgotten
wnat happened in Korea, whose settlement had his full
blessing He has even forgotten, as he dilates on what
he could have done to save the world from the horror
or Communism if his policies had been followed, what
he himself said on March 13, 1946:
? USBia intend aggression?....Having during
years come to know some of Russia’s
greatest statesmen, I take the view that the Soviet
Union s policy is directed towards self-protection and
security against future attack. ana
That was the basis of opinion on which Dr. Evatt
was acting in 1946 when he had control of Australian
foreign policy. He is a theorist, while Mr. Menzies
is an insurance expert dealing in realities and
probabilities.
New Deal for the Disabled
In Sydney last week the New South Wales Supreme
Court awarded a 36-year-old ironworker £20,000
damages for the loss of his arms—both had been
amputated below the elbows after being crushed by
a one-ton drop-hammer. The award made headlines—
it was the biggest on record in New South Wales—but
what made it more worthy of notice was the manner
of the claimant s reception of the news. A veteran
of Tobruk, where he sustained spinal injuries from a
• 5001 b. bomb, Jim Giles is a married man with
two children. His comment was that it was “a lot
of money, but not worth a man’s arms. At least it
will provide security for my wife and children.” As
for himself, he had beaten the Tobruk injuries “and
111 beat these, too.” His plan for beating them is
already in operation; he is ordering artificial arms
from England, and will spend the next six to nine
months at a rehabilitation centre at Jervis Bay, fitting
himself out to do another job in industry. Those who
know Giles have no doubt whatever that he will
persevere until he has beaten his injuries, and that it
will not be long before he can again play a useful part
in the community.
Every year thousands of Australians become
physically handicapped through accident or illness
involving the loss of limbs or sight, and every year
many of them are re-equipped to resume their old life,
or something very close to it. Physio- and occupational-
therapy can nowadays re-educate injured limbs or
teach uninjured ones how to take over the work
formerly done by lost limbs; it can teach the sense
of touch to stand-in for the lost sense of sight. And
when this has been done vocational training can
prepare a man for a new job to replace the one from
which his disability bars him.
All this presupposes two things—that the handi-
capped person desires rehabilitation and is willing
to co-operate and that he is given the opportunity.
Not all men have the spirit shown by Jim Giles. Some
take misfortune very bitterly and will make no attempt
to fight back; for them all the future can hold is
permanent invalidism. Unless a man can accept the
idea that his disability can be conquered there is not
much that can be done for him other than adding his
name to the pension-list. But even among those who
are willing, not all get the opportunity.
The Victorian Employers’ Federation has been
doing some research in this field. It found that in the
past five years 10,300 disabled persons in Victoria were
successfully rehabilitated and placed in jobs. In the
same period 2100 who could have been placed in
employment were not trained or were not found jobs.
To get the first batch back to work cost the community
£3,090,000, but the direct saving in pensions and
sickness-benefits through their return to industry was
£10,094,000. The net saving in five years was thus
£7,004,000, and it will, of course, increase year by
year. On the other hand the 2100 “failures”—the term
is not a criticism of the unfortunate people themselves
—cost the community £2,538,000 and continue to
represent an annual liability of £617,000, while their
numbers will, if present conditions continue, be added
tc at the rate of 420 every year.
The federation’s investigators set out to discover
how well the rehabilitated men—limbless, blind, deaf-
and-dumb or with other deficiencies—had been
absorbed into industry. Without exception employers
who had found jobs for such men reported themselves
highly satisfied with the result. They emphasised that
there was no question of charity in the arrangement;
they were satisfied that the men were pulling their
weight and giving full money’s-worth for their weekly
wage. All agreed that the essential thing was to fit
each man into the job for which he was most suited ;
“the problem ceases to be a problem when you get the
employee in the right job.”
Mr. A. F, Preuss, employment-officer at General
Motors-Holden’s factory at Fishermen’s Bend (Vic.),
probably summed the position up best when he said:
Many people regard any deviation from The
normal as a handicap, but actually there is no such
thing as “normal” either physically or mentally.
Each person is an individual with his own personal
collection of abilities and disabilities. Once it is
realised that everyone has handicaps for some jobs,
the whole mode of looking at the physically handi-
capped as an employee-prospect changes. Ton no
whSh» th« Bt mans disabilities and wonder
h 7 IU him unsuitable for a par-
i J Ut +i See hlm I)urel >' as a person whose
Whether be assess ed to discover
ti? l h ® “ lmmum physical qualifications
to perform the job to the required standard. In
nesses W ° rdB ' y ° U lo ° k at hi ® stren K ths . not his weak-
G.M.-H. employ over 100 physically-handicapped
persons, and experience based on normal checks on
output and upon the reports of section-foremen shows
that in general they are excellent employees, and “often
superior to the non-handicapped in output, concen-
tration and stability.”
The experience of other employers quoted in the
federation’s report is very similar, so it is clear that
it is not prejudice that is responsible for the 2100 men
being unable to find employment. The research-
officers have come to the conclusion that the real
cause is lack of co-ordination between the medical
services and the rehabilitation services and between
these two and the job-placement service—this last
clumsy term means, mainly, the Commonwealth
Employment Service.
Of * be four bodies mainly concerned with
rehabilitation, the field covered by the Repatriation
Department, the Blind Institute and the Deaf and
Dumb Society is self-evident. The remaining organisa-
tion is the Department of Social Services, Which is
restricted to assisting people who are drawing some
form of social-service benefit.
Thus two important groups are prevented from
getting rehabilitation-training. The first includes
persons who are either drawing workers’ compensation
or are able and willing to pay the cost of their own
rehabilitation; the second group comprises children
under 16, of whom the Victorian Education Depart-
ment estimates there are 20,000 in Victoria alone.
After checking a cross-section of its members
and finding that very few were even aware that the
Commonwealth Employment Service had a special
section for the physically handicapped, and that none
had ever been asked by the department about vacancies
for such persons, the Employers’ Federation came to
the conclusion that the C.E.S. is the weak link in the
chain of rehabilitation. It has placed many men back
into industry, but the percentage is not nearly high
enough. The federation recommends an amendment
of the rehabilitation clauses of the Social Services Act
to cover the groups at present excluded, and it urges
the C.E.S. to carry out a survey of industry, to invite the
full co-operation of employers and unions, to initiate
an intensive publicity-programme to promote public
awareness of the problem and to develop a proper
training-programme for its employment officers
entrusted with the handling of physically handicapped
cases.
The important point about these recommendations
is that the' money so spent would be buying the best
form of social service in helping the afflicted to help
themselves, so that from an economic standpoint at
any rate their disabilities would be temporary instead
of permanent.
Four Objectives
In the ACT”: Vice-regal speeches at the openings
of Parliament are broad canvases, innocent of detail,
but often containing useful hints of pending Govern-
ment action for the inquisitive mind. Sir William
Slim’s speech in Canberra was no exception, and its
key phrase showed that the Government regards its
responsibilities as fourfold. These were, he said, “the
strengthening of Australia’s security, the maintenance
of a healthy economy, the development of our
national resources, and the social welfare of the Aus-
tralian people.” There was no doubt which lay
closest to the minds of both the Governor-General and
his advisers. The situation in South-East Asia and the
reorganisation of Australian defence were among the
first matters mentioned in the speech, which in a
manner was a preparation for the Prime Minister’s
statement the following night.
Parliament and the people will await eagerly the
details of changes in defence policy. These, said
Sir William, certainly did not provide for reduction in
the size and urgency of defence preparations, but there
would be some adjustments both between and within
the armed services, including adjustments to improve
the balance between equipment and manpower. If this
means an increase in the numbers in the services, or in
certain services, the methods by which this is to be
accomplished should be disclosed at an early stage to
enable assessment in the face of the changing strategy
and tactics of war, and especially war involving such
vast areas as would be Australia’s concern in the event
of conflict.
The “healthy economy” will be the subject of
Budget attention, when the Treasurer makes his state-
ment on August 18, and the development of resources
includes electricity and irrigation, and some attention
to the transport needs of the Northern Territory. It
was encouraging to learn that the treatment-plant for
uranium-ore will begin production at Rum Jungle next
month, “well ahead of the original schedule.”
The social-welfare plans will apparently follow
the lines of the policy-speech—endorsed by the elec-
torates in the face of the impossible and unfulfillable
promises of “Labor.” The means-test will be eased
and liberalised, and the limits of permissible income
and property will be raised. Aid will be given to the
building of homes for the aged, and' the health plan
will be developed further. In addition, the television
policy will be submitted to Parliament, and proposals
are being prepared to relieve the pressure of judicial
business in the High Court. It is a good, workmanlike
programme. It will give Parliament work to do, and
it should mean a stronger nation by the time of the
1957 poll.


CULINARY MODIFICATIONS
“Probably the best thing we can do is to turn it into a stew.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bench, Bar and Witness
The action of the N. S. Wales Bar Asso-
ciation and the Incorporated Law Insti-
tute in criticising the conduct of the
Studley-Ruxton Royal Commission is a
welcome, but almost unprecedented,
manifestation of the profession’s concern
for the standards of law administration.
There have been previous instances in
which lawyers have acted —when, in Vic-
toria, the Bar sent a round-robin to a
Supreme Court judge through the
Attorney-General giving him a gentle
reminder of the virtues of courtesy, and
when there was universal and effective
protest against the proposed appointment
of Mr. A. B. Piddington (“Good Old
Piddo”) to the High Court Bench by a
“Labor” Government. This latter type
of protest might be repeated in some
States which shall be nameless in respect
of judicial appointments generally. Liti-
gants must look on it as a bleak prospect
to appear before some of the uncertain
vessels which “Labor” Governments have
elevated in recent years in more than one
State —men utterly unqualified for judicial
office either by experience or tempera-
ment.
The Studley-Ruxton protest, however,
is without exception probably the most
severe ever entered in the Common-
wealth, and, if Mr, Justice Dovey in par-
ticular had a case for effective reply, he
threw away most of his ammunition when
he failed to ascertain what the most easy-
going contestant in such a serious matter
would have been expected to determine,
i.e., that the protest was the outcome of
a careful and earnest examination of the
full transcript of the commission’s pro-
ceedings, and not the result, as he de-
duced, of a mere reading of sketchy news-
paper reports of what took place at the
commission’s hearings.
The Bar Council declared that it was
not concerned with the merits or demerits
of Studley-Ruxton’s case against the
police or with the correctness or incorrect-
ness of the royal commissioner’s find-
ings ; but it was “deeply concerned with
the maintenance of the dignity and pres-
tige of the Bench, with the observance by
counsel of due standards of conduct, and
with the protection of citizens who are
called before tribunals of- the State.” It
expressed the view that the royal com-
missioner “failed at times, and in a sig-
nal degree, to exhibit and exercise those
qualities of dignity, tolerance, judicial
calm and patience which this council
knows to be indispensable to the promo-
tion and maintenance of the respect and
confidence of the community and prac-
titioners for and in the courts and other
tribunals.”
It added that in its view his Honor
also “at times failed to maintain that
appearance of detachment and imparti-
ality which is essential to the due
administration of justice, and to control
counsel, and himself exercise due re-
straint, so as not to subject witnesses
appearing before him to unnecessary
insult and prejudice.”
The council held that “certain of the
counsel appearing failed at times to
observe proper restraint and a proper
sense of fairness in questioning wit-
nesses, by asking questions which were
unnecessarily insulting in form and
in substance and by making, during
examination, gratuitous and insult-
ing comments upon the answers
given by witnesses,” departures from
proper conduct which it “deplored” and
from which it “desired to associate itself
and its members.” It added a rider that
in its opinion royal commissions con-
ducted in this manner not only do a
great disservice to the prestige of the
Bench and legal profession, but tend to
defeat the essential purpose of such com-
missions—the production after “a dispas-
sionate and impartial judicial inquiry....
of a report which can safely be acted
upon.”
The Law Institute, representing the
solicitors, in the same mood as the
Bar, deplored the departures from the
accepted standards of courtesy, fairness
and patience shown during the proceed-
ings, and expressed the fear that the pres-
tige and dignity of the courts and the
judiciary had thereby suffered greatly.
It was especially concerned with the
suspension of professional privilege as
between lawyer and client under the
Royal Commissions Act, and with the
lengths to which counsel were allowed
to go in discovering the details of pro-
ceedings as between solicitor and client:
The council notes with grave concern that
the commissioner permitted and partici-
pated in cross-examination of a solicitor as
to his actions and motives in assisting his
client, and regards such a procedure as a
most unfortunate and dangerous disregard
of established principles.
The comments of the two legal bodies
after the event only reflect the thoughts
'which have run through an uneasy public
mind throughout the sittings of the com-
mission. They should have a salutary
effect on future commissions, but not on
.the N. S. Wales Government, which is
armored against criticism by a cast-iron
hide and a complete lack of sense of duty,
as it has demonstrated all too well in
its blank refusal to inquire into the
allegations of assault by the police at
Inverell and the subsequent hushing-up
of charges by a money-payment in which
it has been alleged that the Police Com-
missioner was involved.
The Crucial Need
Federal Parliament opened quietly and
in a favorable atmosphere caused by a
buoyant economy, steady wool prices,
costs fairly stable, a reasonable season
and only wheat a worry. Overseas bal-
ances are for the present satisfactory.
Except in Communist-run unions and
trades which are able to bully Govern-
ments like the Cahill Government in
N. S. Wales, industrial peace reigns for
the most part.
The blackest cloud rising is in Asia,
which prevents the kind of tax-reductions
that taxpayers would like; but there will
still be a substantial cut of income tax,
as well as other concessions in the Budget.
There will be considerable increases in
the property limits and means generally
allowable to those qualifying for pen-
sions ; and, of course, an attempt to
secure constitutional reform on which a
two-party committee is unlikely to agree.
For the rest, housing, encouragement
of goldmining and uranium-discovery are
more or less routine chores set down
for attention. It seems that there is
little left for any Government to do
which is not either prepared to take over,
the Commonwealth as a going concern
and socialise it completely, or revert to a
condition in which the Government
governs and the main stress of policy,
as it is in Canada, is on the encourage-
ment of investment of private capital
from inside and outside the country in
new industries.
It will, of course, be argued that this
sort of investment is going on. It is in
some industries such as oil-refining ; but
there are many fields which have not
been touched at all. Some investment is
absolutely prohibited because it must de-
pend for return on export markets, and
we have little hope of competing with
other countries where labor is cheaper
and workers think primarily of work
instead of play. There are industries,
however, which might be made to grow
under a taxation system which gave them
thoughtful concessions,
Australia is not at a dead-end. But its
primary industries are reaching the limit
of their seasonal markets—wool could
not be notably expanded under present
price-ranges. The wheat-boom is over.
Metals are a great standby while defence
demands are heavy and markets short;
but this is an abnormal condition, even
if it has b®en the ruling condition for 15
years.
The great issue in Australia at present
seems to be expansion of markets in
which there are not shortages for special
reasons, or in which this country has not
something approaching a monopoly.
Those markets are those in which com-
petition must be faced from outside
sources. And there is only one means of
competing in them.
The Governor-General’s speech de-
clared that conditions “point strongly to
the clear need for reducing costs of pro-
duction, if such exports are even to be
maintained.”
This seems to be the major task for
Australian statesmanship in the next
decade if full employment and reasonable
standards of prosperity are to continue
for our rapidly increasing population.
Win, Tie or Wrangle
Australia this year has a wealth of
sporting talent, and it can claim many
successes. But success in sport is no
good to a country unless it is accom-
panied by good sportsmanhip, and there
has been an ugly lot of the other sort
lately.
The tour of an English professional
football team, “in quest of the Ashes”
as was ridiculously asserted —the game
or business is confined to two English
counties and parts of N. S, Wales and
Queensland —can be not unfairly
described as one long, unsavory brawl.
From the beginning large sections of
the crowds were hostile to the visitors,
advising them in choice language to go
back to England. In at least one instance
certain of the guests were pursued into a
bar and violently assaulted. Professional
footballers are no shrinking violets, and
on the field at least the travellers gave as
good as they got. In some matches there
was as much kicking of the man as of
the ball, and in the “return” with
N. S. Wales on the Sydney Cricket
Ground a succession of all-in fights led
to the referee walking-off after a few
minutes’ “play”—a proceeding which
found such disfavor with the organisa-
tion running the “sport” that the too-
eamest official straightway announced
his retirement from refereeing for good.
Perhaps he deserved no better fate for
believing, simple soul, that the League
motto is “Play up, play up, and play the
game.”
This much can be said for the tourists
—when they were adjudged to have
“lost the Ashes” they didn’t “squeal.”
Yet they could have fairly disputed “the
winning try for ‘Australia’ ” on the
evidence of a newspaper photograph of
that achievement, showing the player
grounded with the ball a foot short of the
line.
Though tennis-players don’t punch or
kick, their court demeanor can be even
more unfortunate for their country’s
sporting reputation than the “all-in”
methods of professional footballers, inas-
much as it is apt to earn international
condemnation. In this respect the late
Australian tour of England fell far below
Brookes-Wilding standards.
But the most mortifying incidents of
the kind happened at the Vancouver
Games. An Australian cyclist engaged
in a heat of the 1000-metres was disquali-
fied for having crossed an opponent at a
critical stage of the race. Though the
disqualification was upheld by an inter-
national appeal-body with a Maorilander
on it, the cyclists’ manager, on© Young,
damned judge and jury in explosive sen-
tences, borrowed from the argot of
two-up schools; “Ned Kelly wouldn’t
keep ‘nit’ for this mob.” When another
member of his team was disqualified for
a similar breach on the ensuing night.
Young refused to let the race be run over
again, a proceeding sanctioned by the
international jury after it had upheld the
judge, and led his team off the track and
out of the games. “I always thought there
were ‘sports’ in Canada,” he is reported
to have bellowed; “it seems I was
mistaken,”
With the Olympic Games coming on,
the controllers of the amateur organisa-
tions concerned can’t afford to ignore
what happened in England and Canada.
They could leam something from the
control of women’s sport, which is admir-
able, just as some of the young fellows
could take lessons in manners from its
girls. Win or lose (and they have had
magnificent wins) the girls never boast or
“squeal,” and the same is true of their
chaperons and officials. Wherever they
go they show the real Australian spirit.
Good luck to them all!
Liberal Leadership
When the attempt to oust Vernon Treatt
from the leadership the Parliamentary
Liberal party in the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment failed a few weeks ago it was given
out that no further attempts would be
made during the life of the present Par-
liament —the constitution of the party
had already been altered to provide for a
fresh vote on the leadership immediately
after every general election. At that
time there were three challengers—W. A.
Howarth, former deputy-leader; Dr. L.
J. A. Parr, member for Burwood; P. H.
Morton, member for Mosman. The first
two were eliminated after the first count
and their preferences made the tally
Treatt 11, Morton 11. In a second ballot
someone switched sides, with the result
that Treatt won 12-10.
It was hardly a runaway victory, and
it-left Treatt in the unenviable position
of knowing that approximately half of
his Parliamentary followers would
prefer another leader. In those circum-
stances it isn’t surprising that he should
decide to stand down. In a letter sent
to party members on Friday, announcing
his intention to resign, he said:
The responsibilities of a political leader,
particularly at the present time in New
South Wales, are very heavy, and a leader
giving- of his best is entitled to receive
the fuUest support from every member of
the party. This support has not been
forthcoming.
He therefore intended to tender his
resignation as leader at the next meet-
ing of the Parliamentary party.
The Liberal party in the N. S. Wales
Parliament has had a long run in Opposi-
tion and is suffering from all the frustra-
tions that spring from years of hopes
deferred. With the Country party, it
came within an aqe of victory in 1950,
when it was defeated only by a redistri-
bution which wiped out four country
seats, but lost further ground at the 1953
election. The party seems to feel that it
needs a tougher and more enterprising
leader than Mr. Treatt if it is ever to
offer a serious challenge to the hardheaded
men who lead N. S. Wales “Labor.”
The election of a new leader was to
have taken place yesterday. Whoever
succeeds Mr. Treatt will need the whole-
hearted support of the party. Without it
the Liberals can write-off any hopes they
have held of winning next year’s election.
They Can't Run a Pie-stall
“Labor’s” original Greater Sydney Bill
as submitted to Parliament in 1947 by its
putative father, the Minister for Local
Government, now Premier J. J. Cahill,
involved the slaughter of all suburban
municipalities, but opposition from the
Legislative Council gained a reprieve for
many of them, although the Government
was able to drag into the net sufficient
industrial suburbs to make permanent
control of the Sydney City Council a
certainty. How well that part of the plan
worked was demonstrated at the munici-
pal elections last December when, despite
a record which should have banished it
from the Town Hall for a decade,
“Labor” was able to retain the confidence
of its disciplined electors —though
assuredly not that of the ratepayers.
But the original plan is not dead; it
is merely dormant, as Minister for Local
Government Renshaw has revealed.
According to him the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment “proposes at the appropriate
time to consider including Woollahra,
Waverley, Rand wick, Botany, Marrick-
ville and Leichhardt in the Greater
Sydney area.”
The Minister gave no indication when
the appropriate time was likely to arrive,
but he could hardly have chosen a more
inappropriate time for reviving the sub-
ject. All the evidence suggests that it
would be more appropriate to lessen the
area under the jurisdiction of the City
Council than increase it. Even in its con-
dition of limited Greatness it seems too
much for the “Labor”-controlled council
to manage efficiently.
A homely way of expressing the ulti-
mate in business inefficiency is to say
that a man is not fit to run a pie-stall.
Sydney City Council does not run pie-
stalls, so that criterion cannot be applied.
But it seems to be in everlasting diffi-
culties with its street-barrows, and on at
least two occasions it has shown itself
unable to build a public convenience
without having to change the site and
pull down the half-completed edifice at a
cost of thousands of pounds to the rate-
payers.
Victory in Persia
The Anglo-Persian agreement on oil is a
triumph for British patience, and is of
importance for British Commonwealth
defence, including Australian defence,
beside assuring Persia, whose resources
are so small and whose development is so
backward, a welcome income which will
help to keep it out of the clutches of
Communism.
Oil will immediately begin to flow
again under the auspices of an inter-
national operating syndicate of big oil
companies in which the Anglo-Iranian
Company is reputed to have a 40 per
cent, interest, apart from payments which
will be made to it by other members of
the consortium for the remainder of its
rights. In effect, the other companies
have bought an interest in Anglo-
Iranian’s equity on Persia’s deciding to
recognise it and paying £25,000,000 to
the A.1.0.C. —mere peanuts in the oil
world—as an earnest of the contract.
The Abadan refinery of Anglo-Iranian
alone was worth £350 million when
Persia nationalised the industry and
grabbed the company’s assets. And these
assets will now be at the disposal of the
international operating combination,
though the legal title to the country’s oil
will vest in Persia.
The matter has an importance far
beyond commerce and even defence.
Persian oil is an asset so vast that it
should never have been allowed to lie
idle. The Persians had neither the know-
how nor the shipping to operate it and
no means of acquiring it, since Moussa-
dek’s treatment of the Anglo-Iranian
Company had produced an atmosphere
which made it impossible for any civilised
firm to enter into agreements to supply
the Persian Government with the equip-
ment and transport to make use of the
proceeds of its colossal burglary.
Defence Guidance
Reassessment of Australia’s defence
role, predicted in the Governor-General’s
speech, will depend on the lead to be
given by Seado (the Prime Minister calls
it “Defence Organisation,” not “Treaty
(i Continued on next page).
tribunals.”


Organisation”), and this will be warmly
welcomed by the Government.
The first meeting will probably be early
next month, and will possibly be in
Manila, and its major task will obvi-
ously be the allocation of the responsi-
bilities of its participants. Menzies told
■his Press interviewers last Friday that Aus-
tralia might have to make substantial
changes in its plans, and he did not
exclude the possibility of our having to
maintain forces in the area. There had
been recent discussions with the U.K.
concerning Malaya, but in the absence of
a SEA organisation Australia had been
compelled to do its military planning in
the alternative. The queries before us
were: What are the possibilities that
confront us? How, under these circum-
stances, will our forces be used, and
where? What should their equipment
be? That was a wide and difficult field.
Now we might be specifically directed to
a particular area, in which we would
operate in the event of war. This would
have a great focusing effect on planning.
At this stage, of course, the under-
takings given and to be given do not
mean placing the nation on an actual
war-footing. There is to be a balancing
of efforts to preserve the national
economy, but, as the Prime Minister
pointed out in Parliament, Australia’s
capacity to do its part in defence will
not depend on sums of money. We must
have, he said, efficiently trained and
adequate forces adequately equipped and
adequately supported by a strong national
economy.
With the reserve from last year’s de-
fence surplus, a total of £212 million will
be available' for raising and equipping
those forces. It may prove necessary to
raise much larger forces than we now
possess, although it can be expected that
much of our effort will be concentrated
on the provision of technical require-
ments. Whatever has to be done must be
done quickly, and there should be no
quibbling on it inside or outside Parlia-
ment.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Petrov Commission, which was to
have resumed in Sydney on Monday,
has been postponed a week through the
illness of the chairman, Mr. Justice
Owen.
• •
T. P. Burke’s nomination against Dr.
Evatt —he scored 20 votes to the Oppo-
sition-leader’s 68 —can hardly be regarded
as a serious bid for the leadership. It
was more of a token protest against the
Doc.’s leadership going unchallenged.
Those who really coveted the job decided
that the time was not ripe.
• •
Nelson Lemmon, described by some
Canberra scribes as the only young hope
of “Labor,” went carefully in caucus,
and did not make a bid for office. Neither
did that wiry old battler, Reg. Pollard,
who declared some years ago that he
was getting too old to spend himself in
the hottest of the fray. But it would
not be surprising if Pollard enlists him-
self in the Lemmon brigade; his experi-
ence might be just the thing needed to
bring Lemmon to the starting-post in
the pink of condition when the next race
is run. If he is a starter he mightn’t
have much to beat; the old hacks won’t
be worth much after a year or two of
present conditions, and some may fail
by the wayside in the meantime.
• . •
Eddie Ward topped the poll in the vot-
ing for the executive with 60 votes out
of a possible 88. What appeared to be
the Ward ticket gained most of the'
places on the executive. To serious-
minded “Labor” men there cannot be
much occasion for rejoicing in this.
The new executive comprises Evatt,
Ward, Fraser, Haylen, Harrison, Arm-
strong, Amour, Arnold, Calwell, Clarey,
Pollard, Chambers, Tangney and
McKenna. It doesn’t differ greatly from
the old executive, but the two changes
made both favor the Ward clique—
Ddrothy Tangney replaces Burke and
Amour gets Courtice’s seat. N. S. Wales
now has eight members on the ruling
body; Victoria, three ; South Australia,
West Australia and Tasmania each one.
Queensland, through the defeat of
Senator Courtice, is without a represen-
tative, which seems rather tactless of
caucus when it is considered how hard
the party has been working to woo back
support in Queensland.
• •
Cain persuaded Tatt’s to shift to Mel-
bourne because he considered too much
Victorian money was going to Tasmania,
The first “big” consultation has just been
drawn at the new address. First- and
second-prizes (£25,000 and £5000) went
to New Zealand and third (£2500) to
Westralia. It’s fair exchange; Victoria
took first-prize in the new Tasmanian
lottery.
• •
Getting in early with his annual winge,
Cahill has complained that because the
loan-collection for housing is £450,000
less for the coming year than in 1953-54,
his Housing Commission will be able
to build only 2500 homes this year.
Treatt, of the Opposition, is urging him to
cut his overhead and devote the money
saved to building. He argues that of the
£l2 million loan-money available, nearly
£1 million will be swallowed-up by
salaries and administration-costs.
In 1952-53, the most recent year for
which figures have been published,
administration cost £870,653. Much of
this represented managerial expenses in
connection with rented properties and
was chargeable against revenues collected,
but £487,715 “was attributable to con-
struction and was charged against loan
votes.” On the basis of 4441 homes com-
pleted during the year that sum repre-
sents almost £llOO per house. There
certainly seems to be ample room for
cuts.
• •
Migrant-quota for 1954-55 has been
stepped-up from 90,000 to 107,500. On
past experience it is estimated that about
half the newcomers will be male workers,
the rest women and children. The figure
is still well below the record year 1950,
when, 152,000 migrants arrived in this
country.
• •
Lobby rumors have suggested a
“Labor” move to discuss the whole
Petrov Commission during this week’s
debate on the amending bill. Menzies
made it clear in advance that the bill is
intended solely to remove technical
doubts, and that while reasonable debate
will be allowed there can be no discussion
of the commission itself. He has no
doubts of Parliament’s constitutional
powers to make the proposed amend-
ments.
• •
Back-scratching on a large scale seems
to have been going on in the caucus-
room at the top of Melbourne’s Spring-
street, where Acting-Premier Galvin
claims that the Parliamentary “Labor”
party has congratulated the Cain Govern-
ment on its legislation since 1952 and
on the fact that “the greatest harmony
exists in all ranks.” Confiding this to
the Press, Galvin said that the reported
cleavage between Cabinet and private
members was “a figment of the imagina-
tion.” It must have been a kind of col-
lective hallucination.
• •
Anyone who thought that the promise
to relieve the pressure of judicial business
in the High Court might have meant
appointment to the Bench of a former
justice now suffering a major measure of
political frustration will be disappointed.
There is to be no increase in the size of
the Bench ; the clearing process will weed
out such things as appeals on minor
HOLD-UP
matters. There is a right of appeal at
present when the amount involved is £3OO,
This limit will be raised substantially.
• •
Evatt’s reply to Menzies’s statement on
South-East Asia did not add to his stature
as a statesman with a world outlook. As
one of the founders of U.N.O. and a
believer in the doctrine that peace can be
won by resolutions, he was quite entitled
to present the argument, however
unsound, that if his advice had been
followed years ago all would have been
well. But in taking advantage of a
foreign-affairs debate to broadcast a claim
that “Labor,” although defeated at the
election, had in reality polled a majority
of votes, he was using the tactics of his
current boy-friend Eddie Ward, rather
than speaking like an ex-president of
U.N.O.
• •
During the coming session of the Vic-
torian Parliament the Hollway Libs will
introduce a private-member’s bill in the
Council providing for a double-dissolu-
tion in the event of a deadlock between
the two Houses; under the existing law
the Assembly only is sent to the people.
Hollway says his idea is to prevent
“Labor,” should it gain control of the
Council, from frustrating a future Liberal
Government. The situation is a little
ironical; for nearly two years the Holl-
way Libs have held the balance of power
in the Council and have thus been in the
position to frustrate the “Labor” Gov-
ernment. Further, there’s no mention
how they intend to get the measure
through the Assembly, where “Labor”
has the numbers to throw it out.
• •
Asked by Opposition-leader O’Halloran
whether he proposed to follow other
States in providing for long-service leave
in South Australian industry. Premier
Playford said no. He reminded O’Halloran
that in Queensland and New South
Wales the provision applied only to
workers under State awards; the Vic-
torian Act purported to cover Federal
as well as State awards, but was to be
challenged in the courts.
• •
Sydney’s bus-depot strikes are an
example in miniature of Communist
technique on world trouble-fronts. No
sooner had the strikers returned to duty
at Randwick depot than their colleagues
at Kingsgrove and North Sydney depots
walked out. On the world-stage the
lessening of Communist tension in one
area is invariably followed by increased
pressure in another. Thus the Korean
cease-fire was the signal for stepping-up
the scale of operations in Indo-China, with
the results we have just witnessed. The
rolling-strike is not merely a tactic of
industrial warfare; it is the essence of
Communist world-strategy.
o •
Albert Monk, of the A.C.T.U., pro-
fesses to be unconcerned at the Liberal
party’s plans to obtain a greater per-
centage of trade-union votes. The poli-
tical wing of the “Labor” movement isn’t
inclined to dismiss the threat so lightly—
particularly those members in border-
line seats, both State and Federal.
• •
One new l “Labor” member of the
Reps missed the swearing-in, but subse-
quently swore that this was not due to
over-sleeping, following the 4 a.m, dis-
persal of caucus after the dreary ballots
to elect the executive. He was not per-
mitted to enter the Senate Chamber to
hear the G.-G.’s speech, but was later
sworn in by Mr. Speaker himself. He’ll
probably leam quickly enough how to
go to sleep in the House.
• - •
W. A. Anderson, Federal president of
the Liberal party, claims that “Labor” is
now a reactionary party. Quite so; for
years The Bulletin has been arguing
that “Labor” politicians are the true
Conservatives —they are still living on
the political thinking of 50 or 60 years
ago.
Victorian Mines Minister Ferguson says
that uranium may become Victoria's
principal source of industrial power
sooner than most people expect. He also
says that the only way of preventing the
enormous power represented by uranium-
deposits falling into irresponsible hands
is to ban private companies from mining
them. As Socrates might have said, these
two propositions don’t present a very
harmonious appearance. If the develop-
ing of goldmining had been left to
bureaucratic enterprise, we would be
expecting the discovery of gold almost
any time now.
• •
It seems that Cahill still intends to
foist land-tax and entertainment-tax on
the people of N. S. Wales, although he
will be hard put to find convincing
reasons for the impost. He had a Budget
surplus last financial year, costs are now
stable —through no effort of his own—
and his revenue from existing taxes is at
record level.
• •
Judgment has been reserved in the first
batch of appeals against tne Victorian
Long Service Leave Act, The appellant
employers claim exemption on the
grounds that their superannuation
schemes offer employees greater benefits
than are granted by the Act.
• * •
Federal Cabinet is to receive Anthony’s
recommendations on television almost at
once ; they will probably be submitted to
Parliament in the current session.
• •
Heard Island base, Australia’s first
Antarctic settlement opened nearly
seven years ago, is to be dismantled next
summer, and the nine men there with-
drawn and not replaced. This is a logical
sequel to the establishment and expan-
sion of the base at Mawson, on the
Antarctic mainland, which is now the
centre of meteorological observation,
and of vital research work in geological,
magnetic, geophysical and other fields.
A basic camp will remain on Heard to
be used as a staging-camp for expedition
vessels.
• •
No one can accuse the wharfies of
being unsentimental towards ships. They
treat every vessel that ties up as a long-
lost friend from whom they never wish
to be parted again.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
TJNTIL recently my bi-weekly walks
across the Harbor Bridge were
enlivened by a spirited competition in
chalked injunctions and insults between
Communists and militant Christians.
Now, doubtless as a result of the Petrov
affair, the Corns have withdrawn from
the fray, and aren’t the winners elated!
Why the combatants should have chosen
so ill-frequented a pathway for their
messages—they, and those others who
assail “drunken Sydney” and its breweries
and who demand the extirpation of dogs
—is a puzzle, for more than once on my
peregrinations I have been their only
reader. One gusty day a stout man
approached me from the city end, and I
was moved to address him, saying, rather
effusively, I was glad to see there was
another Sydney man braving the weather
to feast his eyes on the glorious view
from the Bridge. “Me?” he replied con-
temptuously. “I’m from Melbourne !”
—“D.E.”
♦I«
“Jemac”; A medico friend just back
from London reports that music is play-
ing an increasingly important part in
helping doctors help their patients. With
history and legend backing them —David’s
harp soothed the malady of King Saul;
Homer has it that music saved Ulysses
from a haemorrhage—more and more
medicos are applying it to post-operative
care. In many British mental hospitals
it’s considered that music is better than
the conventional warm baths for allaying
“They’ll give me my proper standing in our nudist club.”
fear and anxiety of patients before shock-
treatment. A dentist has fitted two midget
speakers into the head-rest of his chair —
claiming that keynotes drown the whirr
of his key instrument But in one British
hospital, where great store is placed on
melody, theyve changed the record. A
patient came out of his anaesthetic to
hear the majestic strains of the “Te
Deum.” It took considerable psycho-
logical persuasion by the surgeon to con-
vince him that it wasn’t a heavenly choir
welcoming him to Paradise.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Junior”: Juvenile geniuses in the
U.S. are faced with a lockout if American
educators adopt a proposal to suspend
I.Q. tests for the next 10 years. Despite
educators’ bribes of special courses in
nuclear fission and Portuguese social his-
tory, geniuses already discovered by the
I.Q. may yet down textbooks and strike
m support of their frustrated younger
brothers. One source reports that chil-
dren’s book-distributors are behind the
new move. Too many youngsters, trying
to live up to the title of genius conferred
by the 1.Q., have been abandoning their
bedtime Hans Andersens for a light
biology text or a Hebrew lexicon.
*:* ❖ ❖
“Fairf”: Slang, of course, must change
with the times, but why and how a use-
ful, legitimate word becomes an archaism
in one generation stonkers me. When I
saluted a five-year-old niece with: “My,
my, that’s a pretty little pinny you’ve got
on,” I expected a smile of dimpled plea-
sure. I got one of pitying scorn: “It’s
a apron.” Later I asked my spouse for
enlightenment on the distinction between
aprons and pinafores. “There’s none,” I
was informed, “But nobody calls them
pinafores now.” Wonder whether the
Gilbert-and-Sullivan season will open
with “H.M.S. Apron”?
❖ $
“W.A.E.”: I don’t envy “5G.R.” his
ability to natter noctumally in a foreign
tongue (B. 14/7/’54). Although while
asleep I am silent, I’m irritably told I
frequently and enigmatically smile.
♦♦♦ *> ❖
“Hyanlo”: Sis was engaged to a young
cleric, but after the glow of the engage-
ment-ring had worn off she had a few
doubts, considered breaking it off and
finally unburdened her troubles to Big
Brother. “You see, Bruth, Ido love him,
but he doesn’t believe in any fun at all.
He doesn’t believe in smoking, he doesn’t
believe in drinking, he doesn’t believe in
dancing, he” “Look here. Sis. If
you want him, you marry him. After all,
if he wants to get married, he must
believe in some fun!”
❖ * *i*
“X.S.”: Democracy in action. A
young lady got out a miniature chess-
board in a Toorak tram and started
working out a problem ; the conductor
sat down and started to help her with it.
* *** ***
-Melbn”: There was a touch of snob-
bery about the renaming of the Working
Men’s College (founded as such in 1882
by Francis Ormond) when it was changed
to Melbourne Technical College. Now
it is the Royal Melbourne, one of the
four such colleges in the British Com-
monwealth rejoicing in the title. It has
some past history, not all academic.
Some of its vast extensions were built on
the site of the old Melbourne Jail;
during excavation the bulldozers un-
earthed the skull of Ned Kelly, as well
as the bones of 22 other hanged malefac-
tors, buried under their initials between
the inner and the outer wall of the jail.
Urchins got busy selling them as memen-
toes to bystanders, and a bookmaker is
alleged to have paid a high price for
Ned’s skull, but I doubt if he got it.
The names of the hanged men were repre-
sented by initials cut into the wall, and
there were two “E.K’s.”
"No need to hurry home, dear. We're having a wonderful game
with the meccano .”
“Montrose”: If “P.0.M.C.” will drop
into a store in Melbourne’s Bourke-street
he’ll be able to buy the sort of pyjamas
he craves. They feature woven cuffs that
fit snugly round wrists and ankles. The
ankle-hold has got me in. In addition to
preventing concert in aing as you climb in,
they save the calves from the shock of
your mate’s cold hoofs and uncut corns.
And all for fifty-bob, with a choice of
four colors. Marvellous!
“Clem Lack”; That editor of the
Wyalong “Argus” mentioned by E. G.
Bonney (B. 28/7/’54) as standing in front
of a type-case and setting up a leading
article out of his head. In the ’eighties
Brisbane “Courier” had an old composi-
tor named Boyd who frequently contri-
buted leaderettes. The old man never
wrote a line on paper; he stood at his
frame and set the matter out of the case
of type in front of him. Two others able
to do this were Charles Hardie Buzacott,
who established the Maryborough (Q.)
“Chronicle” in 1860, and who bought
out Gresley Lukin’s interest in the Bris-
bane “Courier” in 1880; and Angus
Mackay, first editor of the “Queens-
lander,” who had been a compositor on
the New York “Tribune” when Horace
Greeley was editor.
❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”; Lady Lights of Learn-
ing (B. 28/7/’54)? I was educated at a
school run by four spinsters ; delightfully
humorous, one acknowledged among the
best grammarians in the State. Listening
to a radio-quiz the other night, family
were surprised that I could promptly
supply the answer for an “antonym.”
How could I forget? For did I not learn
thus? “Now then, dear, antonyms are
opposites, write that down, and don’t be
silly. Otherwise you can go home and
tell your mother I said you were sub-
normal.”
*
“Fons”: On the frilled and sooty
stone of the Premier’s Department, in
Sydney’s Macquarie-street, scrawled in
impatient chalk; “10 o’clock closing—
now!”
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Acton”; Making more space ror
World War II and Korea, the National
War Memorial in Canberra is freeing
World War I exhibits now in store in
Sydney for exhibition by public institu-
tions considered suitable for preserving
and honoring them. They include relics
of Gallipoli, France, Belgium and Pales-
tine. Some are small, and institutions
should advise the Canberra director how
many articles and what size are required ;
freight to be paid from Sydney. Very
good, too ; but talk about kid-gloves!
The memorial’s announcement stated
that the relics included articles captured
from our “ opponents” /
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Emjai”: After much pondering on a
name to tack up over the porch of the
Darby and Joan nest in Melbourne, Pop
finally settled on that of the spot in the
Quid Sod where his ancestors used to
stamp around. “Och! The beautiful
soft sound of it,” he murmured. “And
you can imagine the shamrocks and the
praties, and the smell of the turf smoke
from the chimneys.” “Yair, and a whiff
of the potheen thrown in,” chipped one
of the lads. Friends began to drop
around in the weekends with half-dozen
bags and expectations, and departed in
disappointment when hints re home-
brew recipes or a pint for the thrapple
brought nothing from the mysterious
basement regions. Pop wondered at the
comings and the coolness of the goings,
but did not wake up until the letter
addressed to “Carlton House” arrived.
He walked with it to the front, scratching
his head ; then gazed from the letter to the
porch, spelling out the name “B-r-u-r-e-e.
Bruree? Br . . , ! Well! I’ll be
jabered! ”
fjt
“Mabsout”: Yes, union secretaries
do look “big-businessmen”' these days
(B. 21/7/’54). Our union had as secretary
a red-hot militant of the 1930’s school.
Then he was a high-spirited middleweight
of distinctly proletarian appearance, who
gave the impression that he was ready
to tackle Hitler personally if only the
cowardly democracies would back him
up. During the war he vanished, pro-
bably on work of a secret and dangerous
nature —a man of his reckless pugnacity
could never have been held back from
real stoush —and did not bob up again
till late 1945. Now mellowed into a
plump, distinguished figure with smooth
grey hair and heavy-rimmed glasses,
wearing a well-cut suit, carrying an ex-
pensive brief-case and looking like an
eminent Q.C., he’d “report” to members
at lunch-hour meetings in the canteen —
a hurried word or two on union business,
followed by a mighty attack on all the
villains who were plotting to keep us
down. Then he’d push his papers hack
into his brief-case, adjust his smart hat,
glance at his costly watch and hurry off
to his car, while we in overalls gazed
wistfully after him. If the revolution
falls on a bleak, wintry Melbourne night
I reckon it won’t have a leader down our
way.
“An Howe”: One Lynford Keyes,
described as an education adviser with
the World Health Organisation, has stated
that “up to 80 per cent.” of those who
thought they were ill had mental dis-
orders. It’s many years since Freud
made headlines with similar remarks;
more recent researchers think he over-
stressed the neurosis angle. Granted
that some hardihood of spirit is essential
to robust health, the fact remains that a
warped outlook can be caused by undiag-
nosed illness. I recall two cases of opti-
mistic people who became gloomy and
were told by doctors they were neurotic.
Each later proved to have a deep-seated
physical disability. Hypochondriacs are
usually quickly spotted by the physician ;
they don’t amount to anything like 80
per cent, of the sick.
MOVING-DAY
“There are signs that architects are turning
to row-houses; the old-fashioned terrace-house
handled in a manner which makes it suitable
to modern living.”
The terrace is low;
The house in a row
Sounds better, somehow,
Than the house in a row.
Where occupants rouse
It’s just not a house;
When folk come to blows
They don’t do it in rows.
Don’t live in a grouse-house
Conducive to house-rows!
Stick out for a show-house
And live in a row-house !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


6 6-DAKSAC’S” reference (B. 16/6/’54)
to that double-barrelled misprint
of the “Defective member of the police
force” and the “Detective member of the
police farce” resurrects yet again a ghost
that bobs up shaking his invincible locks
at me. In 1925 I sent that joke to
“Punch.” Later an American author of
a volume on misprints included it and
vouched for its accuracy, although he
didn’t consult me. Ten years later the
small-town (Otago, N.Z.) sheet in which
it originated reprinted an article on mis-
prints (containing mine) from an Auck-
land paper, which had taken it from a
Westralian journal. A few years back a
Melbourne weekly, under the heading
“Slips that pass in the type,” included my
joke. “Readers’ Digest” of February,
1947, reprinted it with the addendum:
“Quoted from ‘The Link.’ ” For 25
“ You'll look a proper lady-killer in those, Col!”
years it has been travelling Lord knows
where and still bobs up.—“Uramao”
(N.Z.),
* * *
“Howie Wing”: Have sometimes won-
dered if The Bulletin was perfectly fair
in its references to the “ramshackle
republic” of Indonesia—but not now.
Visiting Indonesians have admred the
efficiency of the Australian civil service.
What must theirs be like?
♦j*
“Torps”: These sound-effects boys
can do anything. As one who had heard
torpedoes fired, I was called to A.W.A.
studios in Sydney to pronounce on the
sound made by a salvo of three of them,
to be featured in a radio-show. My
only comment was: “Which destroyer
fired these?” Then they let me in on it.
The recording team had been out in a
destroyer, but it was too rough for tor-
pedo-firing. So they put a recorded,
punchy explosion of an anti-tank gren-
ade on to tape; heated a soldering-iron
and poked it into a glass of cold water,
beside a mike; joined both sounds on
tape. Result, an as-good-as-perfect
imitation of the punch of cordite explod-
ing and the whoosh of compressed air as
the torpedo hurls from its tube.
♦> ❖
“Cousin Jack”: I noticed in The
Bulletin of July 14 where a corres-
pondent corrected the Sydney “Sun-
Herald’s” definition of “inspissated” in
connection with the oil at Rough Range
(W-A.); he pointed out that the word
simply meant “thickened,” and not “oil
so thinly dispersed over various subter-
ranean levels that it may never give a
well-flow of commercial strength at any
one point” (“Sun-Herald” version). I
have since noticed in the financial section
of the “Sun-Herald” (August 1), where
a N.T. uranium co. was discussed, the
following paragraph:
All the tests to date have, of course,
been on the surface, with some confirma-
tion by cos leaning (light digging) by
bulldozer.
For the benefit of the gardening editor of
the “Sun-Herald” (or whoever it is who
writes its mining notes) I would point
out that costeaning in mining termin-
ology isn’t “light digging”: it is defined
as “surface-trenching at right-angles to
the strike of the lode.” In any case,
bulldozing and “light digging” to me
appear to be incompatible terms,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: These musical commenta-
tors we hear giving their opinions on the
wireless! One of them was arguing at
a Melbourne party with a composer and
railing against English music. The radio
started in the next room and he went in
to listen. “Come and listen to this,” he
shouted to the composer. “Now, that’s
what I call decent music, not that mouldy
British stuff! Isn’t it lovely? Who wrote
it?” “Delius,” said the composer.
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: I predicted a long time ago in
The Bulletin that one of these days the
critics would be writing as solemnly
about children’s art-shows as they do
about adults’—it happened the other day
in Melbourne, when an exhibition was
opened by a Professor of Fine Arts and
attended by directors of educational insti-
tutions and other important people.
Some of the pictures had the alluring
innocence of a child’s first efforts, but to
attach any aesthetic significance to them
would be like attaching musical signifi-
cance to the noise a cat might
make if it walked over a piano.
Nobody dreams of having the same atti-
tude to music. If a child is sent to a good
piano-teacher he is taught to play scales,
and his teacher judges his performance
in precisely the same way as he would
fh a f a Backhaus. So much for all this
bunkum about child-art. It is not art-
it is not remotely connected with it.
There is no more hope nor future in it
than in the cat’s performance.
“Sack”: I had just turned 21 when I
read Farnol’s The Broad Highway, but
one character still remains with me—
“Granfer,” whose one ambition was to
outlast the rusty hook from which some-
body had hanged himself. Also at the
time I had been presented with an elabor-
ately initialled hair-brush. More than 10
years passed before I discovered that I,
“ Wife's shampooing the carpets."
too, had developed an ambition similar
to the old chap’s—-to hold my own against
the brush in the inexorable balding pro-
cess that was taking its toll of both of
us. At times I thought I was leading by
an odd tuft; at others, the cold truth
seemed undeniable: the brush would still
have something to brush with when there
was nothing left to brush. Always, how-
ever, the balance seemed to return and
hang on a hair’s breadth. Then, at last,
I found the brush was missing. Shocked,
I set up a howl of inquiry. My spouse
casually informed me that she had dis-
posed of it. I was aghast. “Good Lord,”
she came back, “there wasn’t a dozen
hairs left on it! I don’t want the place
littered up with things when they get to
that stage.” It is a startling thought
♦> *X* ♦♦♦
Flag on a Hat-rack
CJOME odd flags fly over Canberra. Up
vJ j n Mugga Way, where most of the
diplomats live, there are flags like
licorice allsorts fluttering on tall white
staffs among the gumtrees.
Across the road from the Hotel King-
ston, in another part of Canberra, there
used to fly a diplomatic flag. It was in
the grounds of a big yellow building.
The ground-floor was hidden by a high
cypress hedge. When the wind blew
strong, drinkers at Kingston could see
the gold hammer-and-sickle, but when
the wind was quiet the flag’s red folds
sometimes hid them.
A strange wind blew up at about 8
o’clock on the night of April 13 this
year. Soon afterwards Russian Ambas-
sador N. I. Generalov told me on the
phone, when I asked him for a comment
on the Prime Minister’s shock Petrov
announcement:
“I didn’t know. I was not listening to
the radio.”
That night the Prime Minister told the
Press: “We didn’t want anyone else mak-
ing an announcement like this, in their
terms . . .” or words to that effect.
It was a very strange wind, and the
Russians struck their colors.
They hooked the red flag on a nob
on a hat-rack just inside the front-door,
on the right as you entered. The front-
door opened into a short passageway,
with another door at the end, and be-
yond that, for a time, were the Ambassa-
dor, and Mrs. Petrov, and a host of other
Russians.
You needed to be expert to get in there
past that flag on the hat-rack. You
needed to tell a good story to the guard
who opened the door (after looking you
over through an optical spy-hole). He
might then take you in through the other
door and sit you on a sofa while he went
looking for a superior.
You would then be sitting with your
back to a wall at one end of a very long
room. Away in the distance at the other
end, behind a big desk, you would see a
balding Russian glancing at you through
his heavy horn-rims over an abacus he
worked with one hand.
You would see a succession of heads
pop out through a doorway in a hall
leading off the room. You would see
Molotov frowning down from his frame
on the wall.
If your luck held out you might get in
to see Generalov and sit down in his
study at a table 3ft. square with four
armchairs around it; he and his Press
Kharikovets, filling two of
them.
And, having got that far, you would
see no harm in asking if you could see
Mrs. Petrov.
You might have found yourself stunned
a few minutes later when she was sitting
in the fourth chair, telling you that Vladi-
mir had been kidnapped and that he
would not leave her “because we mar-
ried each other.”
As day followed day and the ether
became heavy with terse diplomatic
Notes between Moscow and Canberra,
it became difficult for anyone to see even
the flag on the hat-rack.
When you knocked on the door a
guard would come out and close it be-
hind him, and tell you, “Sorry, I do not
speak English,” or “The Ambassador?
He is no longer here,” or, when the week-
end came, a plaintive “It is Sunday.”
Several days passed, and an American
journalist in Canberra for the Petrov
affair decided that he needed to see the
inside of the Russian Embassy “for some
good culuh.” I went with him because
I knew where the Embassy was. We were
not hopeful. It had been more than a
week since anyone resembling a journa-
list had been let in.
The gates were bolted now. The Rus-
sians would only open them to the milk-
man and people like that. They were
taking their mail through the bars.
We found a gate that opened, and
knocked on the door.
Kharikovets answered it, and politely
told us there was nothing more to be said.
The American told him they were fine
trees they had in the garden, nice lawn
too, and wasn’t it a great day, and was
it right that a doctor had been to see
the Ambassador, and how sick was he,
and couldn’t we just see him for a
moment?
Kharikovets said, “Good-day,” and
turned to enter the door, but by chance
it had locked behind him.
He knocked and nothing happened,
and he knocked louder, and was em-
barrassed.
The American was tactful, and said,
“Well, we’ll go now,”
We had reached the bottom of the
steps when Kharikovets’s knocking had
results. He was halfway in the door when
the American called out:
“Excuse me. We find we have no
transport and we have to get back to
work. Could we use your ’phone to call
3, cab?**
“Certainly,” said Kharikovets. “Come
in.”
We both went in, and while I phoned
the American looked about and got his
“culuh.”
As we were leaving, I nudged him to
make sure he did not overlook an in-
teresting bit of color on the hat-rack.
That was the last time 1 saw the flag.
It would probably be in Moscow now.
Of course, if they did not give them
time to unpack, it could be in Siberia.
NILOC.
THE DISCIPLINARIAN
“Jacques Path, the Parisian designer, has
decided that women’s waists will be lower this
season,” — Cable.
Woman! How she once sought
Her freedom, and fought
For fullest emancipation
From dominant man !
Success of her plan
She greeted with jubilation.
So strong was her Cause
Man altered his laws,
And many an ancient barrier
Was forthwith removed
Whenever she proved
Its existence would slightly harry her.
She may now, if she likes,
Be a leader of strikes,
Fly jets, or become a magician;
Smoke a pipe in a train,
Drive an overhead crane.
Become expert in nuclear fission.
In short, she has licked
Convention, and kicked
Over traces {for this, who’d berate
her ?)
And white-hot her pride
That brute Man she’s defied —
Excepting the fashion-dictator.
Should her spouse voice belief
He’s the lord and the chief
In l the menage her laughter is hearty;
She’ll inform him these days
Woman never obeys —
That stuff is as dead as King Artie.
But when comes the ukase
She shall lower or raise
Her chassis to suit some Parisian,
Just be cognisant how
This rebel will bow
To gubernatorial decision!
Eve will look out of plumb.
But that’s her martyrdom —
Willing victim upon Fashion’s altar;
So if Path it should please
To have hips near the knees
She’ll have ’em, and never she’ll falter.
But it’s painfully plain
That the poor hapless swain
Will be the one chiefly to rue it;
To embrace lissom waist
That’s been badly misplaced —
Well, he’ll have to be kneeling to do
it.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of the bunch
since
tB*7
Ghioncta
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
New leader of the Libs in Queensland,
K. J. Morrises a farmer, was a soldier.
Practises the first at Brookfield (Q.),
was the second in places like Tobruk,
Alamein and New Guinea, his mob the
9th Divvy, rank of major. He went
straight from the Army into politics,
capturing the Enoggera seat in 1944;
now, with an electorate redistribution,
member for Mt. Coot-tha.
# #
“Rtz”: Poet Kenneth Slessor, at pre-
sent delivering the Commonwealth
T iterarv Fund Wtnrps on Australian
Literary Fund lectures on Australian
Literature at Sydney University, is him-
self a member of the C.L.F. Advisory
n nnt .j npL* i... r Allt . imnn rr
on <svHnpv “«,m ” hp ha/cnmp
reporter on Sydney Sun he had some
Slessor v^ried H Ld B brihiant
journalistic career his cadetship
“Sun” he wts with Melbourne
"punc£” when
editor; when “Punch” folded he went to
Melbourne “Herald”; rejoined the
Sun ; and for 12 years was one of the
most sparkling writers on Smiths
Weekly which he edited for a short
term. ■" war-correspondent s uniform,
e was with the A.I.F. for four years in
England the Middle East and New
Guinea. He wrote one of the best poems
to come out of War II Beach Burial,’
based on his Middle East experiences.
His books include Thief of the Moon.
POET-JOURNALIST
Darlinghurst Nights, Trio (with Harley
Matthews and Colin Simpson), Cuckooz
Contrey (the title of which he found on
an old map and used in the sense of
meaning “regions unexplored”), Five Bells
and One Hundred Poems. Early in the
1920’s Slessor was associated with Jack
Lindsay, Norman’s eldest son, in the pro-
duction of a short-lived periodical,
“Vision,” devoted to the Lindsay ideals.
The richness and variety of Slessor’s
poetry made the theme of an essay by
Ronald McCuaig on the “Red Page,”
subsequently reprinted in McCuaig’s
Tales Out of Bed. For the past 10 years
Slessor has been literary editor of the
“Sun.”
• •
Observing a centenary in Melbourne
are the Damman brothers, whose family
predecessors started selling smokes on
the south-east corner of the Swanston-
Collins-streets intersection in 1854, Then
the two Danish brothers shifted to the
north-west corner (where the million-
pound Manchester Unity building now
stands), and then to the south-west corner,
where they have stuck since 1909.. An-
ticipating the City Council ukase, a
tornado blew down the veranda just
before the Royal visit, but the wreckage
was removed and the shopfront neatly
renovated without it in the short space of
34 hours. Original Dammans were
George and Gustav. Then came Percy
and Oscar. Oscar had three sons,
Geoffrey, Alan and Lloyd; Percy had
John and David. All five are still in the
business, with the governing-director,
Percy, making a sixth. Seventy-eight and
able to remember when cigarettes were a
trey a packet, he is a son of co-founder
Gustav.
• •
Captain T. D. Herrick, who com-
manded British destroyer Hotspur for
part of War II (she was one of the four
H-boats which lashed out to effect at
Narvik, and was later in the Crete evacu-
ation) is the first New Zealander since
the foundation of the country’s Navy
to become Naval-Officer-in-Charge,
Auckland, and C.O. of depot-ship
Philomel. A brother. Commander L. E.
Herrick, had the distinction of being the
only Enzedder in command of a sub-
marine, the Tigress. The new N.0.1.C.
lost three of his four brothers in War 11.
• •
Selected by the Royal Institute of In-
ternational Affairs to fill the Bailey Chair
of British Commonwealth Relations at
Chatham House (Eng.), Enzedder C. E,
Carrington. Son of a one-time Dean of
Christchurch, he went overseas in War 1
with the N.Z.E.F., stayed in England
to read modem history at Oxford and to
teach it at Haileybury College. He has
published three books on his subject,
• •
Re-elected senior trustee of the R.S.L.
in Westralia, Colonel W. O. Mansbridge
was first State president of the league,
and first C.O. of the 44th Battalion, A.I.F.
With the old 11th on Gallipoli, where he
won his D. 5.0., he was back in Perth
when the R.S.L. was formed in May,
1916. Though elected president, he held
office for only a few weeks, before head-
ing overseas again in command of the
44th. Outside matters military, he was
for many years Resident Magistrate at
Broome.
• •
A stamp-design competition, conducted
by the N.S.W. monthly “Stamp News,”
has been won by James Berry, who
stamps round Wellington (N.Z.). Berry’s
entry comprises 17 designs for a com-
plete new series of Australian stamps
from id. to 10s.; the G.P.O.’s Stamp
Design Committee is having a look at
them; Berry’s prize is a collection of
10,000 stamps from all over the postal
world. Berry has designed some 150
stamps of New Zealand, Western Samoa,
Cook Island, Tonga and Bermuda; the
Enzed health-stamp for 1954, due for
release on October 4, comes from his pen.
• •
Modern motor-vessels don’t really need
a funnel, but tradition demands a funnel,
so funnels they have. An Italian ship
recently in Melbourne has a chapel in
hers, and Captain E, L. Jermyn, of the
British freighter Geelong Star, has found
another unusual use for his. He spends
a lot of his time at sea sitting in his
funnel —fitted-up as a day-room—stitch-
ing tapestry. When he isn’t doing that
he’s writing to 216 London teenagers.
Last year the ship was adopted by the
pupils of Archbishop Tenison’s Second-
ary School for Girls at Lambeth.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Four years ago the
former Director-General of Health in
Australia, Dr. J. H. L. Cumpston, was
invited by the Ceylon Government to
report on health-services in the island.
He found that all was not well after two
years of independent status, and his
vigorously phrased report aroused a good
deal of resentment among those blamed.
Since then, however, many of his
recommendations have been put into
effect. Now the Ceylonese Minister for
Health, E. A. Nugawela, has invited
Dr. Cumpston to return and report on
the progress made in the last two years.
Mr. Justice Kirby, Mr. Justice Dunphy
and Mr. Justice Morgan made Australian
legal history the other day over Mel-
bourne when they went aloft in a T.A.A.
plane, piloted by veteran Captain Ron
Andrews, to see demonstration of points
made by pilots in Arbitration Court
award-claims. At 5000 ft. they were
treated to a rate-two turn and a blind
descent from north of Wallan. Their
recreations are still all listed as earth-
bound —golf and tennis.
• •
Councillor of the N.R.M.A. for 25
years, president for the past six, C. R.
Davidson leaves the wheel. With him
driving, N.R.M.A. membership sparked
up from 104,000 to 245,000, with the
quarter-million hoped for by October.
Away from motors he’s one of the State’s
biggest boot-and-shoe retailers. Taking
on. Sir Norman Nock, of Nock and
Kirby, Retail Traders’ president and one-
time Lord Mayor of Sydney.
• •
Ceasing operations (retiring - age
notched). Colonel J. H. Stubbe, Deputy
Director of Medical Services, Western
Command. A Melbourne graduate who
started practice in Perth in 1919, he was
the first M.O. gazetted to the Second
A.I.F. in Westralia, and is still president
of the State branch of the B.M.A. In
War II he medico’d in New Guinea,
and afterwards with 8.C.0.F. in Japan.
• •
“Skipper”: Seen in his home port,
Fremantle, for the first time since his
appointment as commodore of the
British India Line a few weeks back.
Captain G. A. Paterson, 40 years with
the line, half of that time as skipper. In
War II he evacuated 40,000 people from
Burma; more recently he was running
the Nationalist blockade of the Chinese
coast. After Britain authorised trading
with Communist Chinese ports, Paterson
was the first to break the blockade of
Amoy and Swatow. His ship, Cloverlock,
was shelled and hit 11 times by a Nation-
alist destroyer, before he hove-to. Pater-
son and his officers were imprisoned for
close on a month, but his greatest
grievance was the theft of his sextant,
with which he had brought down the sun
for 41 years. Now 64, he’ll anchor in
Fremantle for good at the end of next
year. !
• •
Browsing round Broken Hill, Coventry
caught up with the Silver City’s No. 1
citizen —W. F. Riddiford: for 35 years
miner; for 10 successive years (record)
president of the miners’ union there;
now, and for the past six years, mayor.
Widely interested in Broken Hill business.
MINER-MAYOR
Riddiford is mixed up in organisations
ranging from water and sewerage to
repatriation and dental-clinics. Founda-
tion member, too, of the Musicians’ Club,
qualified for entry thereto through having
played the comet in the Silver City band.
His son’s a miner.
Not shown in this facial representation,
Charles Bottomley’s hands, at the
moment rubbing in anticipation ; Bottom-
ley being treasurer of Queensland’s Royal
National Association, now in full swing
with its biggest-ever Brisbane Show.
Member of the Show Council for the past
14 years and steward for the past 33, the
treasurer has connections going back
even further —his father was chairman
SHOWMAN-TREASURER
of the R.N.A., and for long a member of
it. Bottomley’s special interest in the
Show (apart from clicking turnstiles)
attaches to the district exhibits, of which
he’s in charge ; also keeping an eye on
the Native Affairs exhibits from Palm
Island, Cherbourg and Woorabinda. Old
Digger and Rotarian, with son a Brisbane
medico.
• •
Changed names from Leyshon Pub-
licity to Best and Co., one of Melbourne’s
leading advertising agencies; Edward
Best, boss of the old, same with the new.
Member of the body formed to publicise
the 1956 Olympics, Best is well equipped
for that job—held three track-records in
both Victoria and N. S. Wales pre-War
11, repped for Australia at the 1938
Empire Games, and was on the commit-
tee formed in 1948 to collar the Olympics
for Melbourne.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 72, Percy Scott-Williams,
accountant and architect. Winner of Melbourne
University’s Grice Gold Medal, he took prizes
in several other important architectural compe-
titions, among them those for Canberra’s per-
manent administrative buildings and the Aus-
tralian War Memorial there. Flying-officer in
the R.F.C. in War I, he was for years senior
representative of the Australian Red Cross.
At Maidstone (Eng.) at 51, William Ramsden
Orrell, head of the chemical section of Plant
Protection Limited (1.C.1.). For upwards of 25
years he was an acknowledged authority on
the chemistry and formulation of insecticides
and weed-killers in world-agriculture; was closely
connected with the development of tar and
petroleum-oil emulsions; and more recently
worked on hormone weed-killers and the
numerous formulations of benzine hexachloride
and the phosphorous insecticides. Member of
the Society of Public Analysts, the Society of
the Chemical Industry, and the American
Chemical Society, with rank of lieut.-colonel
he served on one of the British Occupation
missions to Germany in 1946.
In Perth, at 82, Frank Tupper, one of Wes-
tralia’s best-known surveyors, mining and
general. Born in Bendigo (Vic.) he went to
Kalgoorlie in 1895, changing temporarily in
the early 1920’s to survey work in Western
Canada. A foundation member of Kalgoorlie’s
Hannan’s Club, and member of the W.A. His-
torical Society.
At Northam (in from Perth), at 87, Thomas
Wilding, pioneer farmer of the district, owner
of Mokine estate and, between 1908-14, Legisla-
tive Councillor. An early president of the
Westralian R.A.S.
At Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), where he was
born 73 years ago, Major-General John Dalyell
Richardson, D.S.O. He volunteered for the
Army as soon as he was old enough, and,
horseman all his life, became one of the best-
known cavalry leaders of World War I; rising
from lieutenant in the 7th Light Horse to com-
mand of the regiment; he afterwards wrote
its history. In War II commandant of the
State V.D.C., at the end he was chairman of
directors of the Hunter Valley Dairy Co.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 85, Captain Charles
Dempster, who had been in many berths since
he went to sea at 14. He was second-mate on
Admiral Byrd’s supply-ship Jacob Rupert, on
the 1935 Antarctic expedition.


OARFISH STORY


ABORIGINALITIES
r T'HE genuine old-time recluse still exists.
A Meeting him while out shooting,
we were offered the hospitality
of the cowshed from which he
conducted the business of rabbiting. Its
bare concrete-floor was his bed; on cold
"And I introduce our guest-speaker "
nights he softened its austerity with an
armful of well-warmed grass dragged from
under the dogs sleeping in a bark-shelter.
For larder he relied on bunnies, cooking
th™ m" ar ds an d all. on a bed of coals,
and topping-off with a johnny-cake made
with plain flour and water. We proffered
some cooked prawns wed brought from
the coast These he devoured with gusto,
heads sheUs and all, remarking, however,
that to a man with no teeth they
were a little hard to handle. The meal
over, we were invited to hear some
music, played on a home-made fiddle
carved and hallowed out from one piece
of timber, the bow being a piece of bent
tea-tree and hair from the old mare’s tail.
We fell sadly into disfavor after the first
item; at its close one of the party asked
to hear “Killarney” and was informed,
with some severity, that it had just been
played. His idyll, however, has not much
longer to run. The Welfare State has
proved its undoing. Next year, he will
be old enough for the pension and then,
to use his own words, “I’m gonna
retire!” —“Lemuel G.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: What is believed to be
a record in the way of a dingo litter is
reported from the Hughenden (Q.) dis-
trict: 16 pups, 15 of them alive, one
dead. Some doubted whether the 16 be-
longed to one litter ; but the pups were of
the same age and practically identical in
hue and appearance; and it is improb-
able that fitters from two bitches both of
the red breed would join up.
• * ♦ *
“Flight”; The little-grebe, commonly
called the little-diver or dabchick, makes
perhaps the oddest nest in the bird world.
Of reeds and other rubbish, it is gathered
together in a shapeless bundle, and the
hen tramps down a space in the middle in
which she lays her clutch of about four
eggs. It is semi-submerged, and when
she sits in it it becomes a water-logged
mass. The eggs are always wet. When
Mrs. Dabchick leaves the nest for food
she gathers other reeds and lays them
on top of the eggs—these can be removed
when she returns without disturbing the
clutch. Some authorities claim the nest
is moored to reeds or some other stable
anchorage, but I’ve often found a nest
floating about a swamp, unmoored.
When the little blokes hatch out there’s
no need to wait in a wet home; they
tumble over the edge into the water and
dive like tadpoles.
♦ • ♦ *
“Dicky”; Carrying an armful of
wattle home to decorate our own house,
we dropped a sprig beside the playground
of the bower-birds which five near us.
Returning next day to see if they’d
accepted the gift I found they had disre-
garded the yellow blossom but had care-
fully picked all the leaves off and scat-
tered them about; apparently green was
that week’s color-scheme. The most
prominent color in the playground is often
changed. Sometimes white —in pieces of
broken china, old bones, etc.—forms the
main color; the next time bits of purple
glass take pride of place, and then both
whites and purples -will be scattered to
the outskirts of the bower, to be replaced
by greens. Shiny objects, however, seem
to be favorite for the decor: silver-paper,
bottle-tops and sometimes silver coins
are always well to the fore, regardless of
the prevailing color-preference.
“Sebak”: Mention here of a bracelet
fashioned from the hair of a bride in
Heligoland has brought to light an even
more interesting relic When Heligoland
was under Britfsh rede
sented the Crown and one of his duties
was to officiate at weddings. But, the
island being peopled by poor fisherfolk
no bridegroom could afford a wedding-
ring, and their traditions demanded two.
So all couples were married with the
community rings. Three days after the
ceremony the rings were returned to the
Deemster. The custom still prevailed
until, during the reign of Queen Victoria,
Heligoland was swapped to Germany for
Zanzibar. The Germans signed an agree-
ment not to interfere with the Heligo-
landers or their customs; but they con-
trived to always send a destroyer across
the stretches where the fishermen had laid
their nets, thus gradually starving the
islanders into migrating. After wander-
ing around the world with several genera-
tions of Heligolanders, the rings—the
’groom’s a plain gold band, the bride’s
“Come on —we'll take them for a ride!”
ornamented with the tiny figure of an
angel—are now in N.S.W., still in the
original little leather bag.
* * ♦ ♦
“Ida D.”: Like the emu, the kangaroo
is known by different names in the
various abo. dialects. The Monaro
(N.S.W.) natives called the big grey
hopper pattagorang, and I rarely heard
my father, who was born in that district
a century ago, speak of him as anything
else, Burra means “big” and burragorang
is the bigger and stouter wallaroo, or
mountain-kangaroo, to distinguish him
from his lighter cousin, the wallagorang,
which we now call the wallaby.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: Here’s one who’ll
believe “Filterpress” about the blown-
down trees whose stumps jumped back
into place when the logs were cut (B.
30/67/54). A couple of enterprising
young chaps brought an old steam wind-
ing-engine from the goldfields to the
heavily timbered country around Parker-
ville (W.A.), where they .took on contract-
clearing. With the huge engine mounted
on a self-propelled transport, they’d move
to the centre of a paddock and anchor
the machine to the biggest stump they
could find. While one ran the engine
slowly in reverse, the other would drag
out the quarter-mile of steel rope with a
horse, taking a semicircular course
through the bush. When the far end of
the rope had been fixed to a tree, the man
on the engine would wind-in. One by one
the trees between would crash down, the
removal of one bringing the tension on
to the next. Most of the settlers later
cut up the logs for firewood, and in
many cases the stumps were forced back
into their original hole by the twisted
roots. Some even sprouted again, and to
see these now you’d never know they
had been felled,
♦ * * *
“Kerba”: Camped on the job, 40-odd
of us, our main recreations in the big
mess-hut at night were poker, five-hun-
dred, dominoes and draughts, with old
Jim champion of us draught-players.
When he offered to teach the apprentice,
the young bloke grinned a disparaging
refusal; “That game might be all right
when a bloke’s slowed-up too much to
play anything else.” Old Jim picked him
up like a shot. “I’m faster than you are
now,” he declared, and, while the
youngster was still guffawing, laid one
draught on the table. “All right,” he
said; “get somebody to sing-out ‘Grab! ’
and I’ll bet you two-bob I pick up that
draught before you.” He did. He also
picked up sixteen-bob in “double-or-
quits” before the young bloke retired.
Others fell for it; old Jim walloped the
whole gang. “Just a little lesson in
reflexes,” he grinned as he pocketed a
huge heap of two-bobs.
“Werribee”: Floods are significantly
missing from abo. legend, which is
an extensive reference-library for natural
phenomena; nor, prior to about 1855,
have we any record of settlers being
troubled by them. When cattle in thou-
sands and sheep in millions came
to keep the country in a clean-
shaved condition, instead of perco-
lating through a tangle of grass and
fallen timber, rainwater reached the rivers
in great, soil-stealing rushes, raising
water-levels. Floods were bom. Sheep-
and cattle-tracks to rivers became minia-
ture watercourses, cutting deeper year
after year; more silt and sand ran into
the rivers, raising the river-beds. Cowra
(N.S.W.) grew where it is because of a
rocky ford—an important feature in the
golden days of Hawkins Hill and Lambing
Tlat. Today the rocks of the ford are
covere d by 10ft. of sand ; and it would be
B° od betting that the Lachlan is thus
sande d from end to end. The deep holes
w bich in every river act as reservoirs have
lon § sin ? e been levelled-off by sand. As
an inevitable result of white-settlement
Australian rivers get more water at a
** me » & nd, for the same reason, they have
kss de P tb of bed to carry it. It’s pro-
S ressive .
TOURISTS
He comes this way perhaps several times a week,
his empty cart rumbling towards the township,
where there is something to be brought from the
store
or taken delivery of at the railway,
gossip of crops and miscarriages to be exchanged,
mail collected, markets and the weather dis-
cussed,
news gathered of sales and a possible funeral,
and a couple of pints to be lowered at the pub,
where somehow all the stories that he has to tell
fall on inattentive ears, flat as stale beer.
Today, as usual, he sits slumped on the shaft,
his legs dangling. His cheeks and chin are
stubbled black,
his eyes are dull, his large hands hang lifeless,
and, as his horses place foot after deliberate foot,
he neither looks nor listens, whistles nor sings,
but only stares ahead, seeming to see nothing.
At sight of our dust his eyes narrow a little,
and with a slurred word or two he flaps at the
reins,
spits, and pulls over a trifle from the crown.
Then, at my lifted hand, “Whoa there; whoa,
you beggars,”
he shouts, slumps again, scratches his ear, and
stares.
“The forest? Yes, this is the right road, keep
straight on.
Who’re you going to see there —the manager,
or his missus, or one of the blokes that works
under him?”
Then, at our answer, his face sags into puzzle-
ment.
“But what would you want to see a place like
that for?
There’s nothing out at the forest but trees, just
trees;
and no one goes anywhere to look at trees.”
And we can do nothing to ease his querulous
incomprehension, nothing at all; in fact,
if we’d said we were going to watch bunyips
play two-up
it would have seemed less remarkable to him,
for to go anywhere at all to look at trees,
oh, no, the thing is impossible, past thinking.
And so, almost like fugitives from vox populi,
we turn from the pitying contempt within his
eyes,
knowing that when we have said “So long,” and
gone,
he will stare after our dust-cloud until it has
faded,
and then go wonderingly upon his sluggish way
towards the township, where, over an icy pint,
it will make the best story he has ever told,
one that will keep every drinker’s nose from his
glass,
one that can be used over and over and over
as something to be thrown into the scales of
gossip
against someone else’s tale of Jones being sold
up,
or of what price Schmidt’s pigs brought at the
market,
or of what Mrs. Robinson said to the doctor.
“To think of it; all that way just to look at
trees.”
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
Sending the Talk
"MEW GUINEA’S native highlanders
1 ' are pastmasters at “sending the talk.”
Newsy matter is relayed throughout one-
Ifmguage areas as a matter of everyday
routine, and if of more than ordinary
interest it negotiates language-barriers
a nd can travel hundreds of miles,
tt It’s common to see a solitary native
“talking” full-blast in a high-pitched
singsong to an apparently empty and un-
responsive stretch of valley. Probably
a sking his cousin ten miles away for the
l° an of a pig- His talk is heard at the
extent of its range and tossed on, and his
cousin’s reaction to the request comes
back tbe same way, perhaps within a few
minutes.
Sent a boy one morning with mail to
P° st 3(3 miles a way. He’d been gone an
b °ur or so when I realised there was a
serious error in one letter,
I asked the nearest kanaka to bring
K un gi hack. He picked a possie with
Plenty of clearance in front and a sound-
reflecting cliff behind him and aimed the
noise i ll tbe general direction Kungi had
taken - He listened intently, then assured
me f be message was on its way.
Near-by natives listened like bored
Morse-operators hearing traffic directed
elsewhere. “Kungi talk i come back,”
announced my spokesman. “Talkim i
throw away leg bilong im. Talkim i come
I said. That went off. Then
. <Kungi , talk masta .. Kungi . s
exasperation at the second prod was con-
veyecj
Was trudging up a moU ntain track
one afternoon to call on a pioneer
se ttler, and five miles short of his home-
stead a native going the same way joined
me j£ e k ne w pidgin, and after listening
to t h e w j nd told me, “Masta ino stop
long house.” “Today i come back?”
went off into the welkin. “Today long
half-past four,” I learned,
My arrival was announced to the empty
a ir and the houseboy went about his
work keeping a casual ear on things, then
“Masta Dan i talk you like kai? tea?
sandwich? beer?”
This hospitable suggestion came from
three or four miles away and 2000 ft.
below.
YBSUL.


SAWYER’S Creek dam had been dry
for at least three months, so the
management of Warbreccan station
(W.Q.) decided to run a fence across the
middle of the dry bottom of the tank.
A couple of feet down in the silt the
ground was wet; in fact, it was heavy
mud, and in half the holes we sank, after
getting a foot or more into the mud, we
dug up what’s known thereabouts as a
jewfish. They were quite big fellows, and
every one was encased in bus own hous-
ing of caked mud, the inside of it lined
with wet mucus. Possibly airtight, it
certainly kept the water in; the fish
seemed content to rest there, sleeping the
time away till the next rain came in a
month or more, filled the excavation of
the dam, melted the walls of the prisons
they’d made and let them free to take
up the game of life with others that had
seen the drought out by similar process,
—“Kin.”
♦ ♦ * •
“Sack”: That American professor who
is coming to Australia to find out why,
in spite of its heavy fur, our possum
succeeds in keeping cool in summer (B.
14/7/’54) can save his fare. The possum
doesn’t keep cool at all. When his day-
time possie—often close to the corru-
gated-iron of a shed-roof —really warms
up, he shows genuine distress. But then
instinct comes to his aid: he repeatedly
licks his wrists until the fur is thoroughly
wet —like cooling yourself by dipping
wrists (and the bloodvessels near the sur-
face) in water. Kangaroos and wallabies
also lick their wrists, but it seems to be
more of an emotional action when they
are frightened or keyed-up. Still, the
effect would probably be the same.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Kobbi”: Sounds curious that “Kerba”
(B. 7/7/’54) had never established the
identity of his “ee-c/iong.” His exact
memories of his early bush days sug-
gested at first reading a more intimate
knowledge of Pachycephala rufiventris,
known as the rufous whistler. This
“ They're aiming it straight for the refinery at Kwinana."
“always friendly voice of the bush” has
several aliases, including ee-chong, thick-
head, coachman and (sad mistake) whip-
bird. This last-named suggests that it
wasn’t a true whipbird that “Kerba”
heard answer the “ee-chong” call. The
rufous whistler, something of a ventrilo-
quist in his way, has several calls. Among
them is a terminal, but distinct, whip-
“crack” so closely akin to the “smack”
of the true whipbird of the tangled
undergrowth that the unintent observer
can be forgiven for regarding them as
identical.
• * * ♦
“Emjai”: The school in the old Vic-
torian mining-town of Tarnagulla in the
mid-’nineties had no school-tie; but it
had its smells, which live in memory:
the pungent, pervading odor of new mole-
skin pants, the sickly-sweet of just-dead
parrots, heavy scent of the outside wattles
wafting through the windows to over-
power the more gentle fragrance of the
bunches of wild-flowers, the tantalising
whiff of broached Cornish-pasties and
apples beneath the desks, the stench of
carbide in an inkwell, and the pong of
billy-goats. The moleskins and their
smell were always with us. Tough and
hard-wearing, the moleys were almost
universal; any kid who wore other than
moleys was a “sissy.” They combined
with galatea blouses, with a stout running-
string at waist, providing a grand carry-
all for juvenile equipment and treasures,
including such small game as fell to the
inevitable shanghai (ging). When the
blossom was on the ironbarks and yellow-
box the garment reeked with the honey
from the red-heads knocked on the way
to school and saved for parrot-pie. The
goat mobs ranged over the near-by hills,
and catching and riding Billy brought
quick retribution. I can still see, and
hear, that old dominie unerringly locating
and segregating the pong-carrier—not
that that called for any Sherlock Homes
gift of detection!
* * ♦ ♦
“Fons”: Judge Berne’s remark about
looking a blackfellow in the face seems
like becoming celebrated. Mr. Colin
Shanks quoted it in Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
Court recently, reading the full text of the
judge’s observations to the Bench. His
aboriginal client had been charged with
(1) discharging a .22 rifle in a public
place; (2) carrying a rifle on Sunday;
and (3) assaulting a police-constable in
the execution of his duty. Apropos of
this I find in the “Gundagai Indepen-
dent” % column of comment by a local
grazier, who quotes the judge’s opinion
that intoxicating liquor is at the root of
much of the trouble in which aborigines
are involved, and adds:
I disagree with Judge Berne (if I’m
allowed). I say, put the aboriginal on the
same footing as all other true Australians.
Give them the same education, the same
treatment, etc. When they know they can
have what they want by working for it,
they will be a different proposition. The
abo. wants grog because he’s denied it.
Like everyone else they all value and want
something they can’t get. I suppose the
judge often cried for the moon when
he was a baby
I’ve been maize-farming for 35 years and
often engaged abos for the harvest. They
worked just as well as their other Australian
mates. Yet at the cut-out when I treat the
men to a few bottles I’ve had to let the
abos leave without a drink, and like Judge
Berne (but for a different reason) I’ve been
ashamed to look a blackfellow in the face
for months after.
The Deniliquin case? Two-quid each
for (1) and (2); a fiver for (3).
* * * *
“Macquarie”; A turkey-farmer in Bur-
ragorang Valley (N.S.W.), harassed by
marauding foxes, reversed the principle
of the electric-fence, using it to keep out
instead of in. He ran a perimeter out-
side the turkey-paddock, the wire about
a foot above ground. Immediately the
raids ceased. For three months not a
bird was molested; then one night 200-
odd turkeys were massacred. It seemed
that old Bushytail had woken-up to the
cause of what always struck him from
nowhere when he was contemplating a
poultry supper. The turkey-breeder
found a small scratching under the net-
ting, near the one place that wasn’t
covered by the perimeter wire—the
entrance. The hole, however, was not
big enough for a fox to have wriggled
through. The real culprit incriminated
himself when he returned to have an-
other orgy of wanton killing. Having
“I want complete silence when he spins, gents. He's nervous
and temperamental."
no instinctive caution of places where
the man-smell is particularly strong, the
tiny terrier had blundered on to the un-
protected gateway. Fortunately for the
turkeyman. Brer Fox is still completely
flummoxed.
» * ♦ *
“Metralia”: “Bass” refers to something
not yet discovered in “Life as we know
it” (B. 21/7/’54). Though we do, in-
deed, know something of life’s mechanics,
we’re still ignorant as cavemen of its
real nature. He’s again wrong when he
says life can exist “only within narrow
limits.” On our own planet a wide, and
most unlikely, jumble of conditions first
existed, and life then adapted itself to
fit all phases of the jumble. Since even
the near-unlivable parts of our planet
are lived on, it seems reasonable to sup-
pose that the same commendable economy
has been applied to other planets. Why
shouldn’t the hotchpotch of thoughts and
feelings we call “life” be hitched-up to
a metabolism keyed to some quite alien
set of conditions? Save us from the six-
eyed products of science-fiction, but why
shouldn’t we have a methane-breather
who quarrels with his wife on poison-
aired Venus, or a flame-breather resid-
ing on the sun, who even, perhaps, feels
it a little chilly at times?
FERN GULLY
Soft mist in the dim
Of wax-like greenery.
Gay beads of sun
And silver spun
On leaf and limb
Of fern and tree.
Secretly
Through the subtlety
Of undergrowth a
small creek seeps,
Whispers in the still,
Then creeps
Like a child
In the wild
And goes stumbling
down the hill.
Warm smell of mossy
bogs
And wet logs; /
Loam damp and sweet
Where shy, wild violets
Meet,
And, where the old
bark frets,
Little toadstools run-
ning in rows
On tender toes
Up tree-trunks lean,
And sunbeams lie
And slowly die,
Caught in each spread-
ing web of green.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
THE OUTLAW GOVERNORS
/~\VER here in Paris I read this item in
The Bulletin :
In July, 1900, the Dubbo (N.S.W.) dis-
trict was the scene of some atrocious
murders committed by a gang of four
natives—Jimmy and Joe Governor, their
sister Ethel and Jacky Underwood. At
Breelong they murdered a selector and his
family, and shot and speared people at
Gulgong, Wollar and ot!\er places. The
Governors were ex-poliJe-trackere, and
their experience as trackers enabled them
to evade capture for several months.
Finally at the end of October, the police
cornered them, Joe Governor being shot
dead and the others captured. Jimmy
Governor and Underwood were subse-
quently executed and the girl sentenced
to a term of imprisonment.
Actually, the Governor murders were
committed by Jimmy and Joe Governor
and Jacky Coombs. The Gover-
nors had no sister, but Jimmy
married Ethel Page, of Gulgong
(N.S.W.), a white woman, who
had nothing to do with the mur-
ders. My young brother, now
Colonel E. H, Voss, of Brisbane,
saw her camping with a few
blacks on the bank of the Bega
River, in 1904. She recognised
my brother and spoke to him.
I was a small boy in July, 1900,
in Gulgong, and one afternoon,
when another boy named Green
and I were alone in the house
on Slapdash station, nine miles
from Gulgong, three blacks came
out of the bush and came up
to the house. They were look-
ing for work, but, as Mr. Green,
the station-manager, was away
for the day, we could only give
them bread, meat, tea and
sugar. They remained for about
half an hour talking, as we boys
knew them well. Several days
later they murdered five mem-
bers of flie Mowbray family at
Breelong.
Jimmy and Joe Governor were never
employed as blacktrackers. They had
lived as ordinary boys in Gulgong, had
taken lessons from the local parson, the
Rev. Haviland, and spoke English as well
as most of the white boys.
The Governors and Jacky Coombs
found work with the Mowbrays, sucker-
ing on their property, and the murders
followed on a dispute concerning wages.
In the fight Jacky Coombs was wounded
in the leg and was picked up the next
day in a hut not far from the scene of
the tragedy. A small Mowbray boy hid
under a bed, and after the blacks left he
went through the bush to warn the police.
Jacky Coombs was hanged in Dubbo
jail many weeks before Jimmy Governor
was taken.
They killed nobody in or near Gulgong,
but murdered a man and his wife near
Cassilis. In all, they murdered 11 people.
Over 2000 police and civilians were hunt-
ing for them, and £lOOO for each was the
reward offered.
People on stations and on farms were
panic-stricken. Some of them left their
homes in such haste that the police found
dogs tied up starving and dying poultry in
fowlhouses.
Civilian searchers were camped in a hut
one evening at dusk, and the lookout man
—O’Brien, I believe his name was —saw
Jimmy emerge from the bush a few
hundred yards away. He took a snap
shot, and Jimmy disappeared in the bush.
It was ascertained eventually that the
bullet had gone through Jimmy’s cheeks
and knocked out most of his teeth. He
lost a lot of blood, and became weaker
and weaker, and could only live on milk
and eggs stoleh from farms.
Joe deserted him, and one afternoon
a lone rider came to the edge of a clear-
ing and saw Jimmy walking up and down
near a small fire; he appeared to be
suffering, as he held his face in his hands.
The lone rider, having only a small 22-
bore rifle, rode away and gathered a
number of others. They surrounded the
clearing and closed in on Jimmy, and even
then he nearly escaped. He sprinted to-
wards the bush and hurdled over some
low growth on the way, but he was
brought down by bullets in his legs. He
was hanged in Dubbo jail also,
A, few weeks later, further north, a
man called Wilkinson came on Joe, who
had been lying down, and who jumped
up when he heard Wilkinson approach.
Wilkinson shot him through the head
from 300yds. and later collected the
£lOOO reward. The other £lOOO, on
Jimmy’s head, was divided among his
capturers.
C. H. VOSS.


Have yon tried
* ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you. ,
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany have
a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s not idle
chance which leads that
well - known personality,
Claire Bloom, to smoke
—and to offer—these
mild and flavor-
fu 1 cigarettes.
m
w
m
.
ms
AS FULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
f. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street*
London, W.I.
LONDON STORY*
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!"
fds
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better 1 ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt \ery proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better I! ___________
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on $-pint of Kerosene—ln
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Industrial Shares
r T'HE sharemarket has now
lost all enthusiasm for the
new issue by B.H.P. (one for
five, at 305.) The price of the
shares, cum rights, is back to the
level that was usual before the
issue was first rumored. It is
plain that most B.H.P. supporters
take the view that the cheapest
way of buying into B.H.P. will
be to wait for the rights to
come on the market on August
31. Calls will be spread over
two years.
At 435., cum rights, the ex-
rights price works out at about
415., and the rights have a
theoretical value of 11s. It is
quite possible that during the
seven weeks in which the rights
will be available some will sell
below 10s., to make the cost of
the shares, when fully paid, 40s.
or under.
In Sydney, though Swans
(hardware, paint and glass mer-
chants) didn’t raise its dividend
(still p.c.), there was a hint
of a new capital issue, and the
£1 ords. remain strong at 565.,
buyer. Profit was higher at 23.6
p.c. on ord. capital. Swans has
a building programme in hand ;
hence the need for additional
finance,
Frederic Ash, which balances
a month later than Swans, has
yet to announce its div.-rate.
Kandos Cement declared a
steady 10 p.c., but the share-
market continues to pay 41s. 6d.
for the 16s. shares—a rise of
6s. 6d. over the past few weeks.
The Australian Portland Cement
Pty. combination remains
extremely busy, but present
policy seems to be to conserve
financial strength. The N.S.W.
end of the business has transport
problems, but otherwise is strong
and healthy,
Yarra Falls (worsteds) and
J. and A. Brown (coal), both sug-
gestions in B. 28/7/’54, have
each moved up over the past
week. The coal co, still yields
8 p.c, at par, Yarra Falls 5 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Industrials as a body lost
some of their strength following
the setback in the mining share-
market, the buoyancy in which
had spilt over into the invest-
ment section. But pleasant sur-
prises continue to crop up
among final-div. announcements,
and most companies still have
to present their figures for the
past full year.
It is unlikely that we have yet
seen the most forward point in
the 1954 industrial-share front,
though leaders like B.H.P. and
A.C.I. may by now have notched
their top prices for the year.
There are still likely to be
examples like Edwards, Dunlop,
which a few days back went to
725. Not so long ago The
Bulletin criticised the co.’s
practice of charging a high
premium on new issues, which
made the 12| p.c. div. much less
in shareholders’ hands than it
seemed. The next quarterly dis-
tribution from the co. went to
15 p.c., and the shares rose to
over 60s. The steep rise since
appears to have something to
do with conditions in the paper
trade. Paper is again becoming
a scarce commodity, and stock-
values are appreciating.
Oil and Uranium
After stopping oil- and
uranium - speculators in their
tracks for about 24 hours, the
dry hole at Rough Range No. 2
has rapidly faded in sharemarket
memory, and at latest mining-
share speculators are again in
full cry. Such is the “morale”
of the market at present. But,
logically, if the shares in Ampol
Exploration were worth £5 be-
fore the hole was known to be
dry, it was foolish to sell them
at 50s. just because the drill at
a distance of 3000yds. from
No. 1 failed to find more oil.
The momentary panic which oc-
curred on the Tuesday morning
gives ah indication of the wild
gambling element which exists
in the present It
was noteworthy on Tuesday,
however, that the panic passed
over with very few Ampol shares
changing hands at what was
virtually half-price. And before
the day was over they had re-
covered from 50s. to 70s. On
Monday of this week they were
back to 755., after touching 80s.
For the present. North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp, has taken
its place as leader of the uranium
group because of its Arnhem
Land (N.T.) interests. It stands
in something of the same posi-
tion as Ampol Exploration as a
group-leader, and it has had
intense speculative backing in
recent weeks. It withstood a
marked shaking on Monday and
Tuesday of last week and then
went to a new “high,”
A hybrid venture with strong
support is Australasian Oil Ex-
ploration, Ltd., about to drill at
Reid’s Dome (Q.) for oil, and
with several other oil, as well as
uranium, irons in the fire. It
has an issue of about 5,000,000
ss. shares, of which 4,200,000
are contribs.
The warning issued by Play-
ford, Premier of S.A., about the
high capital cost of equipping
a uranium-mine and extraction-
plant has made little impression
on the sharemarket. Mr. Play-
ford said his Government had
already spent about £4 million
on the Radium Hill venture, and
went on to say that uranium was
not a scarce mineral; only large,
rich concentrations were scarce.
At least 200 occurrences were
known in S.A., and on present
Stock Exchange outlook most
could become “the subject of
wild speculation.” But some
uranium ores were so complex
that it would not be economic
to extract the uranium.
Some N.T, shows hope that,
if what they have got hold of is
good stuff, the Commonwealth
Government will finance the cost
of plant. But that is likely to
apply to only two or three cos.
—probably fewer than that if
cost is to be on anything like
the same scale as at Radium Hill.
And it may not be possible even
to produce a reasonably trans-
portable concentrate at the mine
in the case of some small, far-
out ventures. Transport of ore
itself is likely to be very costly.
Rough Range No. 2
From L. Owen (consulting
petroleum - geologist): The
failure of Rough Range test-
well No. 2 to strike oil at the
horizon corresponding to 3605 ft.
in Rough Range No. 1 is, quite
naturally, disappointing to all
interested in petroleum and Aus-
tralian progress. However, the
slump which it caused in oil-
share prices throughout the Com-
monwealth was as unjustifiable
as was the boom—coupled with
a spate of equally unjustified
super - optimistic pronounce-
ments —which followed the
recognition of the existence of a
deposit of migrated and micro-
filtered crude petroleum in
Rough Range No. 1 well.
As was pointed out (B.
23/12/’53) as soon as data with
reference to the physical and
chemical properties of the oil
were available, circumspection
was essential in evaluating the
show. Another factor which
should have invited caution in
forecast was the proximity to
the oil of disconformity, dis-
cernible at outcrop and separat-
ing strata belongin'g to the Cre-
taceous System from those of
the underlying Permian. Further
work may well prove this gap
to be an unconformity under
Rough Range and other struc-
“And I say THIS is Slippery Sid and I’m the detective."
tures to be tested within the
North-west Basin. If this likely
assumption is true, there is every
chance that the oil-bearing sands
will be “spotty.” It is therefore
highly desirable that an intense
study, by geologists experienced
in this class of work, of possible
source-beds and of the probable
paths taken by the migrating oil
should be undertaken before
well-locations are sited.
From the results already ob-
tained, it would appear that the
deductions, made from field ob-
servations by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources before Wapet
took over, should now be dis-
carded, and it is neither a conso-
lation nor a help to be reminded
by a cliche —so long overworked
in apologising for dry holes—
that “before the oil search is
finished in Australia a lot more
dry holes than good holes will
have to be drilled.”
In view of the complexity of
the structure underlying the
North-west Basin, and of the
fact that experience in drilling
such structures has proved, time
and again, that the text-book
rule of “gas on top, oil in the
middle and water, usually salt,
at the bottom” is misleading,
something a little less empirical
than locating No. 3 well half-
way between Nos, 1 and 2 is
required.
With the advance from out-
dated text-book conceptions,
such as may be expected now
that professional petroleum-
geologists are on the job, the
outlook for successful oil-find-
ing in Western Australia is much
more hopeful. Had Rough
Range been a text-book struc-
ture, both with reference to con-
formable folding and regionally
uniform porosity and perme-
ability in the possible reservoir-
sands, the failure of No. 2 well
to strike oil only 3000yds. to the
south-west of No. 1 well would
have been indeed serious and
would have justified the despond-
ency of the Australian Stock
Exchanges.
As things are, there is plenty
of room for controlled optimism.
Best Balance-sheets
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.,
made news twice last week: first
there was the dry hole at Rough
Range No. 2, and then the
announcement that the co. had
tied with Leroy Manufacturing
Co., Ltd., for first place in the
annual awards of the Institute of
Industrial Management (Sydney)
for the best company reports of
1953.
Adjudicators were E. S.
Owens, R. K. Yorston and A. C.
Goode. Mr. Owens said the
company reports submitted
reached the highest general
standard since the award was
instituted in 1949.
Objectives of the award are
to make known the important
place of private enterprise within
the community; to encourage
the dissemination among share-
holders and others information
about company activities in an
easily understandable form; to
establish better employee-
employer relationships by mak-
ing known financial facts about
the company; and to create
employee pride in the company.
Points were awarded for method
of presentation, financial data
supplied and general information.
The award has aroused great
enthusiasm and competition
among company managements.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAKRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKREKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3tr), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fs
ĥ df
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
■
Composer at the keyboard
The hands of a well-known amateur actor,
square dance caller, pianist of distinction, and
composer of musical comedy numbers are here
seen at their daily work operating a calculator
in the foreign bill department of a Bank of New
South Wales city branch.
There are over 8,000 pairs of hands work-
ing in the “Wales”—all sharing in the task of
providing the banking services required by trade
and industry. They are willing to work for you,
too.
0$ *
Consult and use
sd
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOBATBD IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
fsd
■M
'
•"HI
jm Mm.
"IN THE SILENCE, A WOMAN SCREAMED..."
Every Sunday night at eight millions of people throughout Australia listen to the out-
standing productions of the Caltex Theatre. The finest casts and leading producers
combine to bring to dramatic life a special selection of the world’s best plays in
an hour-long presentation of radio at its best.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX, 2NM, 2CA, 2WL, 2LF, 2PK, 2MG, 2LT, 2MW, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD,
6BY, 7LA.
and a nationwide network of other commercial
broadcasting stations.
MACQUARIE
CASTING S E R V 1 C E
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Going back to once-familiar
places after a long absence is
always liable to be disappointing.
This summer’s European jaunt
has turned out to be sadly
evocative and, even to the eyes
of the casual tourist, staringly
bare-boned. Especially the
French part of it.
Paris was always traffic-
crazed, noisy and, by Anglo-
Saxon standards, below the
ultimate in hygiene. In all these
respects it is worse than ever.
If the motorists form a com-
munity it would seem to be
only in their frenzied determina-
tion to scare pedestrians off the
streets by deliberately and
miraculously avoiding, by a mere
arm’s-breadth, running them
down at the crossings.
Andf, although the sounding
of horns is now forbidden, this
is scarcely more effectual than
would be a ban on the
dropping of pins, for brakes
screech and unsilenced engines
roar throughout the day and
night. Nor is the sight of the
bellies of dead fish in the very
shadow of the Chambre des
Deputes any more becoming to
a great city than the whiff of the
sewage in which they float.
So the tourist is bewildered
and not a little shocked as he
vainly watches his francs melt
away by the thousand. He tries
not to remember the full
restaurants of 15 years ago when,
for 25 francs (then 2s. 6d.), he
could dine and wine and pay
his tip. Today he finds that a
similar meal costs about 700
francs (145.). What, perhaps,
upsets him most is the fact that
he saw the meal advertised out-
side at about one-half this
amount. But, once seated at
table, there is so much for the
“cover,” so much for the napkin,
so much for the bread, 12-15 p.c.
for service, and a final brilliant
operation of integral calculus
which proves that all bills are
equal, no matter how variously
they may be composed.
The next thing to strike him
is that away from the show-
places (centred, according to
respectability, on the historic
He de la Cite and on the
abundant fleshiness of the Place
Pigalle) the entire place has a
shabbiness that is decrepit
rather than genteel. It is as if
nobody cared any more. Every-
where, great monuments to the
glory of Napoleonic France
tower in faded splendor,
poignantly echoing the
triumphant past —and inviting
comparison with the drab,
inglorious present.
A Weary People
All too soon superficial
observations deepen into evident
truths and the tourist swallows
his annoyances. The Parisians
who attend him in the course
of his wanderings are clearly
hiding their true feelings under
a veneer of perfunctoriness.
Frequently they are brusque,
offhand or downright bad-
tempered. Most of the people
he sees in the Underground and
about the streets seem dowdy,
frustrated and heavy-hearted.
By this time he ceases to be
concerned about his own trivial
reactions and falls to assessing
the reasons behind this wide and
disturbing unhappiness. It seems
blatantly self-evident that the
French people are struggling in-
effectually against their own
cockeyed economy and have all
but lost heart. And a few
conversations with them reveal
both the intensity of their
bitterness and the absence of
delusions as to the causes of
their plight.
The fixed-income groups and
the lower-paid workers are hard
put to buy food. Yet business
is good and unemployment is
low. There are those who are
doing very nicely, and they are
hated with passionate fury by
the masses. Included in this
sinister elite are the price-rings
which ensure for themselves a
generous rake-off for a minimum
of effort, the graft-soaked
vested interests which are said
to be so powerful as to bring
about the demise of a Govern-
ment when it has served their
purpose, the tax-dodgers whose
apparent immunity from
tracking-down has led to the
economic disorder, and, with a
contemptuous finality, the
general run of politicians.
There, indeed, is the rub.
Eighteen Governments in seven
years ; twenty-five parties repres-
ented in the Chamber and a
hundred Communist deputies
holding the balance. This is the
political set-up of a debilitated
and suffering nation, already
seeped through with considerable
Communistic influence and
apparently wide open for more.
It was a more thoughtful
tourist who, in search of a
square deal, crossed over the
German frontier. Perhaps there
was much more to this new and
puzzling business of our seeking
German friendship than the
ventilating of suspicion and
prejudice?
A Changed People
Some degree of anticlimax is
inevitable here, for these remarks
cannot be definitive . . . What-
ever the outward signs,
suspicions can never be allayed
nor prejudices overcome. At
least, not in our time.
Both are proud nations.
Britons will not overlook the
double aggression. Germans will
not forget their wounds and
bereavements. But two
important conclusions emerge.
The first is simple and vital.
If Europe is to stand as an entity
against Russian expansion the
pillars of its strength must be
Britain and Western Germany.
Everything else, whether the
practical difficulties of breaking
down prejudice or the efficacy of
safeguards against neo-Hitlerism
or a butcher-bird General Staff,
is subsidiary to that objective.
What of the German people
and their attitudes? The tourist
can report that he got his square
deal, which is only to say that,
difficult as life may be for the
Germans under the Russian
shadow, their economy is
sounder-based than the French.
He also happened to revisit
the same part of Germany as he
did 20 years ago when Hitlerism
had begun its compulsive-spread-
Germany fairly rushed up at you
in those days. Whiskers,
duelling-scars, bushy moustaches,
shaven heads, Teutonic hair-do s,
clothes and manners, jackboots,
cafds packed with gourmands.
German bands, follow -my
leader propaganda —all these,
and other, evidences of the
German character were universal
as the Nazi banners in the streets.
The present-day visitor will
not be thus startled as he crosses
the frontier, for the Germans
seem to have toned themselves
down, renouncing their tradi-
tional make-up. Nazidom,
broad and long, is treated as a
bad dream and every physical
trace of it has been completely
extirpated, even to the rebinding
of visitors’-books in the hotels.
The Germans’ capacity for
business dealing, hard work and
inventive application is un-
diminished —a fact well-known
to our export trade. The women
are well, if sombrely, dressed and
the men, if cigar-smoking is any
sign, seem for the most part to
be prosperous. One might even
have cause to wonder whether
they would react sympathetically
to conscription, if that should
be an essential consequence of
rearmament.
They seem to be numb
towards propaganda and thank-
ful they get none—or scarcely
none. Their attitude towards
life, with the Russians so near,
is fatalistic but virile in the
sense that they mean to get the
best out of it —and that goes
for work as well as pleasure.
They do not act gushingly to-
wards but, if treated
with their own stiff courtesy, will
slowly unbend.
The Federal Republic is a
constitution that seems to suit
them. So long as they continue
to prosper and their politics
remain stable there is nothing
(apart from those resurgent
memories) to suggest that they
might become other than a well-
knit and economically rich
democracy. Certainly, in this
function, a vital bastion of
Europe.


Cape TorJt
\
QUEENSLAND
*
N
*
★Jr
new south wales
w
rv V
VICTORIA
*
From Cope York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Klmpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager; C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth,
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
——* pr* - ■—
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield. Consultant: H. W. Herbert.
Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Noyes Bros.—Knox Schlapp Merger
T'WO old-established Melbourne con-
-1 cems, Noyes Bros. (Melb.), Ltd., and
Knox Schlapp, Ltd., which manufacture
and/or merchandise a wide rang© of
engineering products, are to merge their
interests in a new holding co., N.K.S.
(Holdings), Ltd., subject to consent of
holders of at least 90 p.c. of the shares
involved before August 16, 1954, or not
less than 80 p.c. if N.K.S. (Holdings)
agrees to accept a lesser proportion.
After that N.K.S. (Holdings) is to
form a new subsidiary, Noyes (Aust.)
Ltd., which will take over the merchan-
dising activities previously carried on by
Noyes Bros. (Melb.), and buy all the
issued ord. shares in Noyes Bros. (Syd-
ney), Ltd., and in Crompton Parkinson
(Sales) Pty. The ord. shares in question
are all held directly or indirectly by
Crompton Parkinson, Ltd., an English
manufacturer of electrical motors and
other equipment, which set up a local
manufacturing subsidiary, Crompton
Parkinson (Aust.) Pty., in 1921. This last-
mentioned co, is not included in the deal;
it will continue to manufacture in N. S.
Wales, but will market its products
through Noyes (Aust.), Ltd., which is to
be the sales or distributing organisation
for the entire group throughout the
Commonwealth and South Pacific area.
The idea behind the new set-up is to
reduce competition by eliminating dupli-
cation of production and distribution,
with all-round savings in costs. On the
merchandising side both the Noyes cos.
represent substantially the same British,
American and Australian principals. In
addition Noyes Bros. (Melb.) owns three
manufacturing subsidiaries, namely,
Ogden Industries Pty. -(builders’ hard-
ware, etc.), Metales Pty. (brass rods, wire
and sections, etc.) and Australian Die
Casting Pty. (zinc-alloy die-castings, etc.).
These manufacturing subsidiaries and
Knox Schlapp will continue to trade
under their own names. Knox Schlapp
holds overseas and local agencies for a
wide range of products, including copper
and brass tubes, compressors, pneumatic
tools, diesel-electric- and steam-locomo-
tives and machine tools, etc.
The first merger will result in N.K.S.
(Holdings), Ltd., acquiring the following
liabilities and assets, based on the last-
published accounts of the two cos. con-
cerned :
Noyes Bros. Knox Combined
(Melb.). Schlapp. Figures.
„ SO/6/’54. 30/6/’53.
Paid capital .. £494,793 £350,000 £844,793
Reserves .. .. 616,553 53,533 670,086
Creditors .. .. 380,055 290,406 670,461
Tax provision .. 178,118 23,705 201,823
Final div. .. 56,192 28,000 84,192
£1,726,711 £745,644 £2,471.355
Freeholds .. 221,378 115,808 337,186
Plant, etc. .. 124,116 21,885 146,001
Stocks .. .. 671,878 192.167 864,045
Debtors ~ ~ 683,878 294,063 977,941
Cash, etc. .. 4,961 11,721 16.682
Goodwill .. .. 19.500 110,000 129,500
£1,725,711 £745,644 £2,471,855
The new holding co. is to issue 315 of its
own f.-p. £1 shares for every 100 f,-p. £1
shares, backed by net tangibles with a
book-value of £220, in Noyes Bros.
(Melb.), and 120 f.-p. £1 shares for every
100 f.-p, £1 shares,' covered by net tan-
gibles with a book-value of £B3 165., in
Knox Schlapp. It will thus kick off with
a paid capital of £1,982,274.
Profits and dividends, etc., of the two
vendor cos. compare as follows:
Noyes Baos. (Melb,).
. p.c. Dividends—*
April 30, Profit. Cap. Amount, p.c.
1951 .. ..£125,084 89.4 £63,450 20
1952 .. .. 144,165 88.8 74,282 20
1953 ~ .. 156,821 35.8 87,527 20
1954 .. .. 207,004 46.0 89,907 20
Knox Schlapp.
p.c. -Dividends—*
June 30, Profit. Cap. Amount, p.c.
1951 .. .. £54,882 26.3 £25,000 15
1952 .. .. 55,038 16.7 35,000 10
1953 .. .. 44,272 12.6 28,000 8
1954 .. .. * * 28,000 8
* Not yet available.
Combined net profit, last available
figures, was thus £251,276, or 12.6 p.c. on
the new holding co.’s £1,982,274 of capital.
On the basis of the proposed exchange of
scrip in relation to present sharehold-
ings, an 8 p.c. div. from the holding co.
would be worth 25.2 p.c. to shareholders
in Noyes Bros. (Melb.) and 9.6 p.c. to
those on Knox Schlapp’s register.
Shares in Noyes Bros. (Melb.) recently
sold at 81s. 9d, (625. a year ago) and those
in Knox Schlapp at 325. (265. sd. a year
ago). After allowing for the exchange of
scrip, the return in each case would be
approximately 6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis.
The new merchandising subsidiary,
Noyes (Aust.), Ltd., will hand N.K.S.
(Holdings), Ltd., 750,000 of its own f.-p.
£1 shares, plus £BO,OOO cash, for the
merchandising section of the business of
Noyes Bros. (Melb.). It will also hand
Crompton Parkinson, Ltd., and its asso-
ciate 750,000 f.-p. £1 shares, plus about
£210,000 cash, in exchange for all the
issued ord. shares in Noyes Bros. (Sydney)
Ltd., and in Crompton Parkinson
(Sales) Pty. It will thus kick off with a
paid capital of £1,500,000. No shares are
to be offered for public subscription at
present.
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) has a paid capital
of £114,870 in 30,000 9 p.c. first and
14,870 7 p.c. second prefs. and 70,000
ords., all of £1 each. At June 30, 1953,
reserves totalled £384,165, subject to
£19,000 of goodwill. What is to be done
with the pref. capital has not yet
been made clear to the public.
After allowing for pref. divs.,
profits averaged 68.5 p.c. on ord. capital
for the three years to mid-1953, and a
steady 25 p.c. div. was paid. Accounts
to June 30 last are not yet available.
The Parkinson (Sales) co.’s figures are not
broadcast.
Shareholders in Noyes Bros. (Melb.)
and Knox Schlapp both look like
gaining immediate benefits, with
enhanced long-term prospects, as a result
of the proposals.
N.K.S. (Holdings), Ltd., is to apply at
an early date for the listing of its scrip
on the principal Australian Stock
Exchanges.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
OVER the last 12 months the price of
the co.’s f.-p. 16s. shares has advanced
from 355. 6d. to 425. in the market. At
the higher figure the immediate return
is only 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
which was the rate paid, with visibly
but little to spare, over the last nine
years. Since economic and other develop-
ments in the industry have pushed pros-
pects of a new share-issue into the back-
ground, for the present at any rate, it
is to a lift in the div, that investors pin
their hope for a better return on their
money. Those who look for a yield of,
say, 5.7 p.c, count on a 15 p.c. distri-
bution.
To get the picture into perspective it
first needs to be remembered that Kandos
(paid capital £748,736) and Australian
Cement (paid capital £947,766) are two
holding cos. which are equal partners in
Australian Portland Cement Pty, (paid
capital £2,500,000). The proprietary, or
operating co., took over the holding co. s
plants at Kandos (N.S.W.) and Fyansford
(Vic.) toward the end of 1929, and has
since given a very good account of itself.
It is now the largest producer of cement
in the Commonwealth, turning out over
500,000 tons of the stuff annually, or
about 35 p.c, of total Australian produc-
tion of cement for the year to June 30,
1953.
Since 1943 the operating co. appears
to have sent along a regular 6 p.c. p.a.
as against a steady 9 p.c. for the five
years before that. And since the margin
between its earnings and distributions of
recent years is believed to be wide, the
10 p.c. paid by Kandos, whose p. and I.
figures are summarised in the following
table, is probably a lot more comfort-
able than it looks:
Net To Be- Ee-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 66,473 10 p.c. = 67,386 525.711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ „ 67,386 625,455
From doubtful debts reserve, £lOOO .. 526,455
1948.. 67,474 10 p.c. = 67,886 88 626,543
1949.. 67,676 10 „ „ 67,386 290 526,833
1950.. 70,098 10 „ „ 67,386 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 ~ 67,386 2,892 531,987
1952.. 76,276 10 ~ „ 70,888 5,393 537,830
1953.. 88,020 10 „ „ 74,859 8,161 545,491
From tax reserve, £7OOO .. ~ 552,491
1954.. 83,328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
On capital as it now stands, the operating
co, would need to send along 9 p.c, to
enable Kandos to pay 15 p.c.
At June 30 last Kandos had assets with
a book-value of £1,350,398, of which
£1,250,000 was represented by shares in
the operating co. (in at par), £86,398 by
Government securities and cash, and
£14,000 by shares in (£5000) and
advances to (£9000) a small subsidiary,
Pipes Linings (Aust.) Pty., which traded
at a loss last term.
The encouraging features are the post-
war growth in production-capacity and
extensive modernisation of the operating
co.’s two plants, and the satisfactory long-
term outlook for the industry, which is
one of steadily expanding demand, sub-
ject, of course, to economic developments.
To help finance the additions to plant,
etc., chiefly at Fyansford, the proprietary
co. has increased its paid capital by
£500,000 since 1948. To meet its half of
this increase Kandos called the remain-
ing Bs. on 187,184 of its 16s. shares, and
drew upon its holdings of Government
securities and cash for the balance.
The planned expansion of plant is now
practically complete. At Fyansford out-
put-capacity has been lifted by about 50
p.c., making it 300,000 tons p.a., which is
sufficient to take care of file Victorian
market, or all but a small fraction of it.
The 200,000-odd-tons-p.a, works at
Kandos, which shares the N, S. Wales
market with five other producers, has also
been modernised and operating costs per
unit of production reduced.
Another encouraging feature is that
the two plants in question are moderately
capitalised per ton of output, and that
means much so far as profit-earning is
concerned in a market which is steadily
becoming more competitive. Hopes are
that, now the call for capital outlay has
moderated, the operating co. might see
fit to pass on more of its net earnings in
the not-too-distant future.
Howards, • Ltd. ( Brisbane )
/~\LD-ESTABLISHED, ably handled
and well-shod financially, Howards
has always given a good account of itself.
Shareholders have had a steady 20 p.c.
for the five years to the close of last
accounts as against a regular 16 p.c. for
the four preceding years and an average
of 8.3 p.c. for tlie 16 years before that.
And at June 30 last the £208,533 of paid
capital was entrenched behind £694,299
of visible reserves. The two combined
therefore need turn in only 4.6 p.c. to
show 20 p.c. on capital alone, thus giv-
ing the 20 p.c. as comfortable an appear-
ance as anything of the kind can have
in the circumstances. Moreover, the
size of the reserves, and other things,
adds to the attractiveness of the scrip as
a holding proposition.
The co. holds franchises covering
Queensland and Northern Rivers of
N. S. Wales for Morris cars and trucks,
and Wolseley and Riley cars and Nuffield
Universal Tractors were added to the
list during the 1953 term. Other contri-
butors to the pool are agencies for
Electrice and Coldflame refrigeration and
sundry domestic appliances, as well as a
new motor-vehicle assembly-plant, at
Hendra, and a new service-station, at
South Brisbane, both of which came into
operation only a year or so ago, and have
not yet developed full earning-power.
The downtrend of unit sales of im-
ported motor-vehicles reached a turning-
point in 1953, and, thanks to a number
of stabilising factors, the position has
steadily improved since. Average
monthly registrations of new motor-
vehicles in Queensland for the three years
to December 31, 1953, and for the six
months to June 30 last, compare as
follows:
Year. Year.
Dec. 31, Number. Dec. 81, Number.
1951 .. .. 2304 1 1953 .. .. 2012
1952 ~ .. 1723 | 1954* .. .. 2193
* Six months June 30, 1954.
Still, owing to import-restrictions, the
co.’s deliveries, especially of cars, were
behind the order-book, a position cor-
rected toward the close of accounts and
since.
Competition, however, got more of an
edge on it, and margins were a bit finer.
So, despite assistance from the new fran-
chises and the assembly- and service-
plants, there was a slip of £19,568 in the
year’s gross profit (£591,798). Including
£4281 (down £54) for depreciation, exes.
(£387,460) were £12,445 lighter. It was
a cut of £37,000 in the tax-provision
(£75,000) that enabled the cautious board
to show £29,877 more profit at
£129,338:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 124,811 20 p.c. = 27,818 96,993 404,439
1951.. 150,407 20 „ „ 41,707 108.700 513,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 488,139
1952.. 102.479 20 p.c. = 41,706 60,778 548,912
1963.. 99,461 20 ~ „ 41,706 57,755 606,667
1954.. 129,388 20 „ „ 41,706 87,632 694,299
Any overprovision for taxation in 1953
(and it appears to have been substantial)
has been allowed to remain as an inner
reserve. The £129,338 of profit claimed
was 62.7 p.c. on capital compared with
47.7, 49.1, 72.1, 89.7 and 56.4 p.c. back
to 1949. The lushness of these ratios is
largely explained by the size of reserves.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
14.3 p.c.
The already comfortable financial
position was further strengthened:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £208,533 £208,533 £208,533
Reserves ~ ~ 548,912 606,667 694,299
Creditors ~ 479,487 180,748 327,762
Unearned Interest.. 26,243 54,669 47,399
Tax provision .. 121,907 144,376 144,769
Staff funds .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final diva. .. 41,706 41,706 41,706
£1,451,788 £1,261,599 £1,489,468
Freehold .. .. 112,780 196,301 206,915
Plant, etc. .. 10,894 17,338 17,128
Stocks .. .. 887,545 889,240 758,822
Book debts, invest-
ment, etc. ~ 404,260 578,477 503,162
Cash, etc 36,309 80,243 3,441
£1,451,788 £1,261,599 £1,489,468
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£678,789, excluding un-
earned interest) was £77,228. A better
flow of vehicles towards the close of
accounts sent stocks (in at cost or under)
up by £369,582. The omnibus item, book-
debts, investments, etc., was reduced by
£75,315, while £147,014 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors.
The current term has opened with


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
6UTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Insurance Supervision
RA WONGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd,
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3446. BU 3446, BU 1409.
£ui7/i
m
m
Amazing things are happening in aeronautics
overseas. America has been testing a jet aircraft that
takes off and alights on its tail; it flies straight up,
levels out at height, and can stop itself in the air like a
hovering bird. Britain also is doing a lot, much of it
still secret, in improvement of the means of flight.
Each advance in man’s mastery of the air interests
me greatly, for I have been watching aircraft since my
flying days in the Royal Flying Corps during the First
World War.
I am interested also because of the measureless
possibilities all this is opening up for Australia. I
believe it is not fantastic to say that the air carriage
of beef from the inland will become as commonplace
in the future as droving cattle was in the past.
Do we run a horse and buggy when a modern
motor can be had? Will we be leaving the delivery of
our beef to the long drove and the long surface haul
when air freighters can fly it out?
The transition may not be long, as things are
moving now in aviation.
0
Meanwhile we must press on with the immediate
business of building up our surface transport. No
air age is going to dispense with the need for roads
and railways.
Australia has more than half a million miles of
roads. Many of them are little more than tracks.
About 150,000 miles are hard-surfaced. The States are
the road-constructing authorities, and they are carrying
on the work to varying extent within their budget funds.
But I’d like to see this job tackled as the national task
it is, with the Commonwealth and States in close
co-ordination.
Roads are costly, but we must have them. They
pay for themselves in a few years through the extra
millions they bring to production. We have the
engineering brains to build them ; earth-moving equip-
ment is available to put them down quickly.
Time may not always be with us. Let us marshal
our resources in men and money and machines now,
open the roads, and the sky is the limit for Australia’s
future.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor*
neye, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friend
WILL AGNES ELLEN FREMLIN, ALICE
FREMLIN and JESSIE ADELINE FREM-
LIN, or any issue claiming through them,
writes.to the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Albert Street, Auckland, New Zea-
land ? The persons advertised for are the
children of WILLIAM FREMLIN and
AGNES CLEMENTINA SHAW FREMLIN
(nee ROWARTH), who were married
in 1849 in the Parish of East Peckham,
England.
SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT
Mr. T. A. CRESSWELL-GEORGE,
formerly General Manager of Color-
gravure Publications, a department
of The Herald & Weekly Times
Limited, retired from this position
on the 30th April 1954 and wishes
it to be known that he has not since
that date been connected in any way
with The Herald & Weekly Times
Limited nor with any of its depart-
ments or publications. It has come
to his notice that the Herald-Sun
Book Department has sent out
and despite his protest in writing
is still sending out thousands of
letters purporting to be signed by
Mr. Cress well-George as General
Manager of The Herald-Sun Book
Department. This is being done
without Mr. Cresswell-George’s con-
sent or authority and he accepts no
responsibility for anything contained
in such letters.
PASTORALISTS!
• • •' s'. '*A
INCREASE your
CARRYING CAPACITY
BY WEED CONTROL WITH
METHOXONE liquid MCPA selective
weed killer, particularly suited for control
of weeds such as Variegated Thistle in
pastures where clovers are important.
‘AMOXONE’ —concentrated liquid amine
2, 4-D, containing wetting and water-
softening agents. Controls many pasture
weeds, such as Skeleton Weed and Saffron
Thistle.
mOROXONE’- 2, 4 D powder which
dissolves readily in water and is recom-
mended for economical weed control.
EST ONE 80 — concentrated ester 2,
4-D miscible oil. Very effective for control
of hard-to-kill weeds, such as Galvanised,
Noogoora and Bathurst Burrs; Khaki,
Skeleton and Cape Tulip weeds.
Trade Marks of ICIANZ Ltd.
Available from your usual Supplier
5AG.24X.4616
, DEPENDABLE PLANT OSQ PROTECTION PRODUCT
sales at a higher level than a year
ago, and there is nothing at the
moment which points to an early
drop in the economic barometer.
With further relaxation of im-
port-restrictions, and expansion
of British Motor Corp.’s works
at Victoria Park, near Sydney,
supply has ceased to be a bottle-
neck. This and other things,
however, suggest still keener
competition.
At 70s. (595. 3d. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 shares, covered by
86s. 7d. in net tangibles, give a
satisfactory immediate return of
5.7 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
in the Serendah
and Rawang valleys, Malaya,
this big Sydney-controlled tin-
dredger (paid capital £867,006 in
10s. shares) has given a good
account of itself since repos-
session of its properties after the
Jap occupation. However, the
co. is now entering upon a new
phase of operations, and, subject
to what happens in connection
with the price of tin, the future
appears to hold something better
than was achieved last term, but
less than the results won during
the three preceding years.
Performances of the co.’s two
dredges combined have been as
follows: j
Av.
Dredged Value Recovery.
Year, ’OOO. O.y. T.o. Profit.
March, O.y. Lb. Tons. &
1948 .. 2454 .38 419.46 16,459
1949 . . 2292 .31 316.33 16,110
1950 . . 5245 .35 830.83 105,923
1951 .. 4973 .58 1285.48 240,368
1952 .. 5593 .47 1163.87 224,307
1953 . . 3674 .49 800.48 224,606
1954 .. 1874 .47 395.92 95,027
Last term’s slip of 49 p.c. in
yardage handled and of over
50 p.c. in recovery of tin ore,
and the contraction of £129,579
in the profit figure, were due to
dismantling and transfer of the
dredges from the old and worked-
out Serendah areas to new leases,
an inevitable rise in unit costs,
and a sharp fall in the price of
tin.
The 395.92 tons (down 404.56
tons) of tin-ore produced was
equivalent to 293,58 tons (down
308.42 tons) of metallic tin,
which realised an average of
£668.2 (down £264.8) per ton.
Treatment costs were 10.78 d.
per c.y. as against 8.96 d. for the
previous year. The £95,027
(down £129,529) of profit was
10.8 p.c. on capital compared
with 25.6 p.c. for the previous
year. The div. was dropped
from a nominal 2s. 6d. to Is. 6d.
per share, subject in both
instances to 30 p.c. Malayan
income-tax. The net rates thus
fell from 17.5 p.c. to 10.5 p.c.,
which called for £91,980.
No. 2 dredge ceased operations
in the Serendah area on April
24, 1952, and began work again
on some old sluicing ground on
November 28, 1953, preparatory
to entering the new Sungei area.
The cost of removal and re-
erection was £120,713, which
was charged against the dredge-
removal reserve, reducing it to
£179,287. No. 3 machine ceased
digging on June 23, 1953, and
the pontoon has just been floated
on the new Sungei Kuang site.
Digging will begin again when the
superstructure is erected in a few
months’ time. Cost of removal,
etc., to March 31 last was
£62,546.
The quantity of pay-dirt ahead
is not specifically stated in the
directors’ report. It has been
claimed, however, that new
mining leases recently acquired
over 645 acres of State land, to-
gether with the Kuang leases,
should provide sufficient reserves
for the future working of both
machines —for what period was
not stated —but that bore values
of the ground were considerably
lower than those on the original
properties, and that shareholders
should not expect “sensational”
results from future operations.
Financially the co. is well-
endowed. At March 31 last cash,
book - debts, etc., totalled
£628,617, and outside liabilities
amounted to £199,201, including
the final div. Stores, etc., figures
at £300,221. The Bangtoe pro-
perty, West Siam, in which the
co. holds a one-third interest,
has been sold to Kamunting Tin
Dredging, but settlement has
been held up on account of
technical difficulties connected
with transfer of the leases.
The London average spot-price
of tin, which fell from £5753.2
for April last to £5721.7 for
May, stood at £S74B on August
4. At the moment the long-term
outlook for the metal is one of
surplus production, the effects of
which the International Tin
Council is seeking to mitigate
by a proposed international
agreement for regulation of pro-
duction and creation of a buffer-
stock pool.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares, which fluctuated between
15s. 9d. and 9s. 3d. during 1953,
stood at 12s. last week.
Peko reports some rich copper
developments in its gold-copper
mine at Tennant Creek. The
west drive oh the 200 ft. level has
advanced 26ft. in ore averaging
22 p.c. copper and sdwt. gold.
And a rise from the 300 ft. level
was in stuff assaying 15.4 p.c.
copper and 7.3dwt. gold for 54ft.
Also developments below the
300 ft. level are reported suffi-
ciently encouraging to warrant
increasing the daily throughput
capacity of the copper plant
from 50 tons to 100 tons crudes.
On the strength of these develop-
ments, plus the buoyant
psychology of the market, the
price of the f.-p. 2s, 6d. shares
strengthened from 6s. 6d. to
10s. 6d. over the last fsw weeks.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A 20ft. x 10ft. map of Australia made
of white wool-formed the background
of the official enclosure at the Wool Ball
organised for the Collingwood Oppor-
tunity Club. In the foyer leading to the
Royale Ballroom were bales of wool, and
over the entrance were draped the Union
Jack and the Australian Flag, made of
skeins of colored wool. The orchestra-
stand was bordered with pots of cycla-
men and greenery, with woollen figures
set between them. On every table was a
bobbin of colored wool with a gay wool-
len figure attached.
Official guests were received by Mrs.
Iris Clarke, public-relations officer and
funds organiser for Opportunity Clubs;
Sue Guest, president of the ball-com-
mittee ; and Mr. Eugene Gorman, Q.C.,
president of Opportunity Clubs. Mrs.
Clarke’s lovely bouffant gown was of
cinnamon-brown tulle with clusters of
bronze sequins on the strapless bodice
and skirt.
Highlight was a Belle of the Ball com-
petition. Among the judges were Mrs.
Geoffrey Grinrwade, whose pale-pink
tulle gown featured a tunic effect of
gold in a lattice pattern; Mrs. I'om
Carlyon, whose short bouffant frock was
of scarlet tulle with the strapless top
lavishly sequin-trimmed; Mrs. Isobel
Green, who wore black tulle; and Lois
Lathleen, wearing a gown of peach-
bloom satin-brocade. The girl chosen
‘ was Margot Davey, of Tylden, near
Woodend.
The Mayoress of Collingwood, Miss
Vera Wilmot, was in the official party
with Mrs. Bert Atkinson and Mrs. Cecil
Greaves. Among the dancers, Anne
McCaulay wore bouffant junior-blue
nylon. Sue Carnegie (Holbrook) rose-
pink broderie Anglaise, and Felicity
Freeman (Strathmerton) pale-green self-
patterned organza. Judy Sutcliffe’s frock
was of jade-green shot-blue silk; Anne
Spraggett’s pale-pink tulle gown had
matching pink ruffles on the skirt and
bodice. Jane Luxton (who was in a party
which included Capt. John Slim, son of
the Governor-General and Lady Slim)
wore a slim-fitting sage-green organza
frock, with the swathed bodice leaving
one shoulder bare and with moonlight
and green sequins trimming the bodice.
Jeanette Stewart’s pale-blue tulle had
a huge bustle-bow of matching moire
ribbon in which was set a cluster of pale-
pink. roses. Jacqueline Baillieu’s flame
georgette frock had a sunray-pleated
skirt; Jane Hennessy’s unusual ensemble
was a white crinoline skirt and a long-
sleeved blouse of pink velvet which fin-
ished in a cummerbund. Mrs. Harry
Marks wore pale-grey satins with opales-
cent beads massed on the bodice and the
skirt-hem.
* ☆ ☆
A dinner-dance on board the Neptunia
to assist White Wings, Toorak auxiliary
of the Prince Henry’s Hospital, of which
Mrs. J. T. Lennon is president, will be
held on August 17. It is under the pat-
ronage of Dr. Luca Dainelfi, Consul for
Italy. Invitations are being sent out by
Dr. V. Bellini, Italian Vice-Consul, and
Mrs. Lennon. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
F. Cincotta (XB 3647) and Mrs, David
Triaca (WL 3099).
* ☆ ☆
Valerie Staley, younger daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Gray Staley, of Brighton,
who will marry Brian Boston at Wesley
College Chapel on August 28, was given
a linen “shower” by two friends of her
mother, Mrs. S. Aarons and Mrs. H. Silk,
at Chevron Hotel. Both hostesses wore
fur coats with tiny white hats, while
Valerie covered her ice-blue wool suit with
a dyed-ermine cape and wore a matching
fur cloche. At the party were Mrs.
Hamilton Smith (who will be matron-of-
honor), Pat Osborne and Shirley
O’Connor (the bridesmaids), Moya Clark,
Beth Grace, Mary Trewin, Mrs. Peter
Ebeling, Mrs. Geoffrey Bland, Mrs. Tom
Harvey, Mrs. John Ingleton, Eileen
Hattam and Audrey Lawrence.
☆ ☆ ☆
Caulfield racecourse now has a new
lounge, the Edinburgh Room, which is
exclusively for the use of members’ wives
and their women friends. Colorful and
very modern, it has large windows
screened by venetian-blinds, with con-
cealed lighting in the ceiling which sheds
a soft pink glow over the room. The
furniture is sycamore and maple, and the
small chairs and armchairs are
upholstered in rose-pink plastic. The
rubber floor is in aqua-green and black,
the aqua tones picked up by the soft-
green of the ceiling. The long side-
curtains are yellow, patterned in rust and
aqua leaves. Another innovation is the
walk, which linksdhe members’-stand with
the birdcage, thus eliminating stair-
climbing.
To celebrate its opening, V.A.T.C.
chairman Norman Robinson and members
of the committee gave a cocktail-party.
Those who attended included Mr.
Robinson’s wife and daughter (Mrs. Josh
Pitt), Dr. K. McLean (vice-chairman,
V.A.T.C.) and Mrs. McLean, Mrs. A, G.
Hunter, Mrs. Albion Walkely (whose
husband was architect of the Edinburgh
Room), Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke, Mrs.
L. R. Buxton and the Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. R. H. Solly).
June Myers, who is top designer for
Douglas Cox, was born with a natural
gift for dress-creation, for at the age of
eight she was making, not dolls’ clothes,
but her own. With school finished she
entered her father’s legal office, but the
urge for dress-designing would not be
denied. Now married, with a small
schoolgirl daughter, June finds relaxation
from the designing-board with golf and
music. John Warlow photo.
One of the last and very pleasant tasks
performed by Mrs. John W. Middleton,
wife of the U.S. Military Attache (leav-
ing for the U.S. later this month), was
to present Lady Murdoch with a cheque
for £4OOO, proceeds of the Fourth of
July Ball organised by the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital. This was one of two functions
which preceded an afternoon party at
the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda; the other
was the presentation of life-governorships
of the hospital by the president, Lady
Murdoch, to Mrs. Middleton, Mrs.
Cressall, Mrs, Roger van Zytveld, Mrs.
J. T. Rush (who has already left for the
U.S.), Mrs. C. Coleman and Mr. G.
Curwen (director of the Palais).
Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, presented a farewell-
spoon to Mrs. Middleton, who now retires
as president of the auxiliary and whose
inspired leadership made the ball such
a huge success, Mrs. Middleton, prior
to her own presentation, gave farewell-
spoons to Mrs. O. R. Gains, the
auxiliary’s recording-secretary (who will
fly back to the U.S. with Colonel and
Mrs. Middleton and their twin sons),
and to Mrs. William Cressall (who sails
for home in Orcades on September 15).
At the meeting were Mrs. Herbert Allen,
one of the foundation-members of the
auxiliary, and two former presidents,
Mrs. W. W. Killough and Mrs. C. W.
McKay.
* * *
Unusual flower-arrangements beautified
the reception-rooms of the Toorak home
of U.S. Assistant Air Attache Major
James Clark and Mrs. Clark, when they
gave a buffet dinner-party to farewell
U.S, Army Attachd Colonel John W.
Middleton and Mrs, Middleton. A leaf-
green angora frock which had a high
neckline and fully pleated skirt was worn
by the hostess. Mrs. Middleton chose a
ballerina frock of black Chantilly lace.
Mrs. John Sullivan (wife of U.S. Air
Force Attache Colonel John Sullivan)
wore a frock of junior-navy nylon, the
bodice of which had a series of tucks for
trimming. With Air-Vice-Marshal V.
Hancock was his wife, who wore a short,
full skirt of grey and bronze lame with a
black jersey blouse.
Others at the party were Major R. D.
Lee and Lieut.-Colonel F. H. Lewis
(both on exchange from the U.S. to the
R.A.A.F.), with their wives; Mrs. G. R.
Davies-Goff (her husband is head of the
New Zealand Liaison Staff); Wing-
Commander and Mrs. J. R. Mitchell;
Wing - Commander Claude Brown,
R.A.A.F., and Mrs. Brown; Mr. and
Mrs. Bing Molyneux; Mr. and Mrs.
Andre Chaleyer.
STDNET
The icy weather which coincided with
the opening of the spring fashions did
not deter people from buying-up during
the week summer dresses, gay accessories
and many yards of nylon, cotton, pure-
silk and printed rayon. Perhaps they did
it to cheer themselves, or perhaps they
just couldn’t resist the display.
In sports-wear the main influence
seems to be Italian, which in fashion
means dashing patterns, vivid colors and
a touch of craziness. Straw appears in
many guises, as trimming, in handbags
(white, with strawberries, for instance),
in sandals and in parasols.
Shells are another form of trimming
used in all sorts of ways—in necklets,
on hats, on skirts.
Shoes are high-heeled sandals, often
pink to match handbags, sometimes blue
or “alabaster.” Handbags become “tote
bags” and are big enough to tote all
one’s odd parcels round town.
Sailor-collars have come in again, and
also, for after-five, Elizabethan ruffs (un-
starched) of tulle sprinkled with forget-
me-nots. New belts are black or white-
and-gold mesh ; leather ones which wrap
around and tie in the front, or are
trimmed with little bells like a jester’s and
have a collar to match.
The outstanding hat is the “planter,”
deep in the crown, drooping in the brim,
a perfect disguise and another hazard
for the pedestrian.
Flowers are everywhere, including
great clusters of them on ear-rings. The
long rope of beads or pearls from the
’twenties is back again, and is to be worn
in quantity as great as the purse will
permit.
The Princess-line will probably be
popular in dresses in the coming season,
but the main trend in dresses and hats
will not be quite clear until this present
week’s fashion-shows have been seen.
Valerie Cullen, of Cronulla, the young
ice-skater who has recently returned from
a trip abroad, has announced her en-
gagement to Rodney Halter, of Singleton
(N.S.W.). Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Beautifully decorated tables, a spec-
tacular parade, and an impressive official
party created a lavish atmosphere at the
International Ball held last Thursday at
the Trocadero. Headed by Britannia,
Australia and the United Nations, repre-
sentatives of 20 nations bowed, each in
their characteristic fashion, to his Excel-
lency the Governor before taking their
places in a brilliant tableau, rich with
the harmonising costumes of many
nations.
The official table, which was backed
by screens of plaited bamboo garlanded
with ivy and topped with flags, was set
with green cloths and decorated with
trails of ivy and small mandarins with
foliage. Clusters of tiny candles were
set in nests of ivy, and groups of tali
candles along the table added a soft and
romantic light.
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, president of the ball-
committee, welcomed the official guests,
who included representatives from every
Consulate, although several diplomats
were absent in Canberra for the opening
of Parliament.
The prize for the best-decorated table
went to the Philippines. The table, which
had been prepared by the wife of the
Consul-General, Mrs. Generoso Provide,
and her daughter Anita, featured exotic
fruits and dolls dressed in Philippines
costumes. (Mrs. Provide said she had
.wanted to add a small banana-tree whose
leaves she had been polishing-up for a
week, but her husband wouldn’t let her
put it in their new car!)
Among the dancers at the ball (num-
bering over 900) were Mr. and Mrs. R.
Lay, Mr. and Mrs. S. Leweniec, Dr. and
Mrs. A. Parker, Dr. and Mrs. J. Alex-
ander, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Shanny, Mr.
and Mrs. Max Cramsie.
* ☆ ☆
The “settling-down” party for Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Nash given by the Royal
Empire Society in their reception-rooms
was attended by about 180, who were
welcomed by the president, Mr. W. J,
Bradley, and Mr. F. Daniel!, Lady Berry-
man, Miss Margaret Gillespie, Mrs.
Allen Williams and Mrs. Garnet Hal-
loran. Some lovely flower-arrangements
had been made by Mrs. D. A. Sinclair,
principally in dark-red poinsettia and
yellow Iceland-poppies, and a bouquet of
sweet-scented spring flowers, arranged
by Mrs. Alex Rigby, was presented to
Mrs. Nash. During the reception Mr.
Bradley presented to Mr. and Mrs. Nash
a wedding-gift from the Royal Empire
Society in the form of a large bush-land-
scape in oils by Mr. Erik Langker.
* ☆ ☆
That care for the aged will have to
receive very much more consideration
in this country was clearly shown at the
annual meeting of the Council of Social
Services of N.S.W. held during the week.
A survey made by the council in the
past year (at the request of an inter-
church committee) revealed that all
places offering accommodation to old
people had long waiting-lists, and that
where any kind of nursing was needed
the position was desperate.
In moving the adoption of the report,
Major-General the Rev. C. A. Osborne
said it was welcome news to hear that
the Commonwealth Government would
subsidise pound-for-pound those who
cared for old people and would allocate
£1,500,000 for this purpose, but he indi-
cated that the aged needed also to be
restored to their venerated status in the
community and should be made to feel
that they had a real place in the fellow-
ship of the family circle.
* *
To celebrate the engagement of their
elder daughter Eva to Ross Homibrook,
Mr. and Mrs. E. S. Herz entertained
about 50 guests at a cocktail-party at their
Wahroonga home last Saturday. Eva,
whose ring is a solitaire diamond flanked
with sapphire bars, wore a dark-blue
organdie dress patterned with white
flowers. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. David Klippel, Mr. and Mrs. Roger
Breden, Mr. and Mrs. C. Bill, Mrs. W.
W. McLeod, Betty Clowes, Diana
Andrews, Paul Vernon, John Bainton,
Dick Gye and Jack Denne.
* * *
Comperes at the Loreto (Kirribilli)
Fashion Show, held at the Trocadero,
were Mr. Eric Baume and Mr. Owen
Ainley. A Philippine bamboo-dance was
performed by Adelina Agbayani, assisted
by Richard Seet and Vincent Richmond,
and a comprehensive array of spring
clothes was shown, including a surrealist
bride in white matador pants. Between
600 and 700 people attended the parade.
The president, Mrs. Tom. Bateman, enter-
tained in her party several wives of mem-
bers of the Consular and Diplomatic
Corps, including Mrs. Levelt, Mrs.
Klingenberg, Mrs. Martin Wang and
Mrs. M- Njegovan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Is this a sign of the times? Two of the
most popular “parlor-games” in America
of late are called “Scrabble” and
“Gibberish.”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
'Mil:
nr*
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIV Z
osuixivan
* * wxua . .
n IS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Ply. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
ESAU OFFICE AND FACTOaiBi
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London. New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPBRS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Byrd Festival
The Pro Musica Chamber
Choir’s singing of William Byrd’s
Mass for five voices, whose high
carollings from the Sanctus
onwards are as close as many of
us miserable sinners may come
to hearing a chorus of angels,
brought Sydney University’s two
Byrd concerts to a glorious con-
clusion. John Gordon, who con-
ducted the Mass, has a wonderful
sense of the time of this old
music; for, though it may be
translated into modern time-
signatures, its spirit is as hard to
conjure-up today as it would
have been for Byrd to imagine
from our printed music the
“swing” that is the essence of
jazz.
The Chamber Choir also
surrendered the souls of some
motets into the persuasive hands
of Peter Platt; and he drew from
the Pro Musica chamber-group
of strings some of that six-part
string music that swirled and
surged in English history for 100
years and then vanished like the
spent passion of youth.
The Collegium and Lindfield
A-Cappella choir under Fritz
Rice seemed not in quite so good
voice this year with the Mass for
four voices as last year ; and the
madrigals and rounds of the
Oriana Singers conducted by
Norman Johnston had not quite
the finish of Mr. Platt’s motets;
but this is merely the opinion of
a reviewer who went there to
learn—and these were not all the
instructors:
There were Mr. Gordon play-
ing the organ, Kenneth Long
conducting the St. Andrews
Cathedral choir, the University
madrigal society singing evening
canticles, and even some virginal
pieces played by Judith Brock-
sopp on flie clavichord. What
an instrument for the flat-
dweller! Even amplified on the
public-address system, it was
barely audible —and very nice the
famous “Bells” piece sounded on
it, and so much more right than
in the heavy orchestral trans-
cription of recent recordings.
Stem and Goossens
Listening to the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra’s perform-
ance of Shostakovitch’s Sixth
Symphony at Melbourne Town
Hall under the Goossens baton,
made it difficult to understand
how it got around that this was
revolutionary music. It sounded
as traditional as may be, though
by no means academic, which
isn’t to say that it isn’t a lovely,
melodious and exciting composi-
tion.
There is a long, wavering pas-
sage for the violins in the first
movement which, for sustained
beauty, struck the present com-
mentator as the loveliest thing
he had heard in a long career of
concertgoing. The grand slam
at the end of the second move-
ment, with a shrill note running
through it, was terrific, though
no more so than the finale of the
Brahms Concerto in D Major,
which preceded it in the pro-
gramme, and through which
Isaac Stern steered his magic
fiddle.
Mr. Stern was in extra-
ordinarily fine fettle. In the first
movement of the Brahms con-
certo he seemed to reach the
same perfection of understate-
ment that made his Sibelius of
the previous Saturday evening
so restrained an interpretation.
Mr. Goossens was also calm
and easy, and didn’t follow the
precedent he established at an
earlier concert by throwing him-
self off the platform.
♦> ❖ ❖
Britten Song-cycle
Suzanne Danco was soloist
with the Sydney orchestra under
Galliera in Benjamin Britten’s
song-cycle “Les Illuminations de
Rimbaud.” The nine songs
which comprise it are set to both
verse and prose written by Rim-
baud during the two years he
and Verlaine roamed together,
when Rimbaud was 17-19.
The writing for the voice is
poor, and it was rather a thank-
less task for the soprano, for,
despite the purity of her sing-
ing, the ear was inexorably held
by the orchestral music. Lively,
imaginative, its rhythms vital, the
scoring rich, it pointed the com-
poser’s gifts in handling instru-
mental writing in some of the
big forms.
There was some delightful
playing by the string sections of
the orchestra in the Concerto
Grosso in G Minor by Gemi-
niani. The music is in the style
of Corelli, whose pupil Gemi-
niani was, but to the beauty and
grace which are the hallmarks of
the early Italian master Gemi-
niani has added an ingredient
peculiar to his temperament:
ebullience.
“La Pisanella,” a suite con-
sisting of an interlude and two
dances from the incidental music
to the d’Annunzio drama,
demonstrated the excellence of
contemporary Italian composers.
The music is alive with fresh
ideas, and the modern idiom is
happily wedded to a structural
form which owes much to the
past.
The concert ended with
Tschaikowsky’s Symphony No.
6 (the “Path&ique”), that
strange work in which a rather
lively third movement is fol-
lowed by the most grief-stricken
threnody in symphonic litera-
ture, Galliera’s conducting of it
was marred by one fault —there
was the hint of urgency at times
in the two slow movements
which tended to dilute the
tragedy.
❖ ❖ *
“Jazz Wagon”
Jumping, as it were, on the
band-wagon of the Artie Shaw,
Ella Fitzgerald, Jerry Colonna
catches-as-can-can at Sydney
Stadium, Sydney Palladium pro-
duced “Jazz Wagon,” a night of
pure jazz with Sydney’s Les
Welch and his band, some
localists like big-hearted and
built -in - proportion Beryl
Meekin; Norm Erskine, the
Camera-canary; Toni Curtis, of
the school which sings as though
they didn’t have a roof to their
mouths, though she has, and
everything else a girl could
desire; Edwin Duff, properly
billed as “The Throat with a
Coat” —a little figure practically
all scarlet long-cut Yankee coat;
and Enso Toppano, whose act
with the piano-accordion looks
like a Russian trying to do up
with his right hand a set of frog-
buttons that won’t stay buttoned
—all of it compered by Keith
Petersen, who would be really
good if he were a little better.
Mr. Welch, who continually
not so much shakes as tingles,
took over the piano, playing both
sides of the microphone held be-
tween his knees, for an impressive
demonstration of boogie-playing
and singing; he was also pretty
good in “Full of Fun and Fancy-
Free,” and colored singer Nellie
Small achieved the fierce and
secret ecstasy without which
blues-singing hardly matters.
The three colored Ross Bros,
were efficient enough, and Allan
Clive impersonated Bogart,
James Stewart and Edward
Robinson to one’s satisfaction.
He also impersonated one Jerry
Lewis —whom this ole fuddy-
duddy reviewer hasn’t met —to
the satisfaction of the crowd.
“Well,” said one’s son, looking
up from his homework as these
matters were recounted, “you’ve
been out among the hot stuff.”
An innocent abroad, it seems.
But there was no ballet; only
one pleasant young lady called
Janice:
How dey gonna make it pay,
Hebben knows,
How dey gonna make it pay,
Hebben knows,
Witout no cuties witout no does.
❖ ❖ *
Brisbane Youth Concert
John Farnsworth Hall’s youth
audience in Brisbane seems to
have come of age musically. At
his last concert they sat through
a solid spread of fine orchestral
music in a programme built with
a skill which made it unneces-
sary for conductor or players to
condescend to the youthfulness
of their listeners. In the full 50
minutes of Berlioz’s “Fantastic
Symphony” there was hardly a
sign of the tell-tale fidget which
betrays wandering interest.
The “Fantastic” was a good
choice for a youth concert. It
is musically important, has clear,
good tunes and enough musical
fire and brimstone to stir the
most jaded concertgoer. More-
over, the orchestra is never
wasted on cheap effects, and the
emotions, powerful and passion-
ate, are never sickly or heart-on-
sleeve. Farnsworth Hall guided
his players through the big score
with vigor, managing most of
the orchestral thrills as well as
the delicacies, in spite of the lack
of the super-orchestra Berlioz
liked to dream about.
Brasher, but full of the energy
and color of the best American
orchestral music, was Walter
Piston’s “Incredible Flautist,”
a novelty with a pulsating out-
door atmosphere. Its vividness
contrasted with the flatness of
John Ireland’s “Satyricon”
Overture, supposedly based on
a tale by Nero’s Master of the
Revels, but lacking any pung-
ency of theme or orchestration
which might have related it to
the saltiness of Roman wit.
Glenda Raymond sang in a
bigger voice than on previous
occasions, filling the vast cavern
of the hall without much diffi-
culty. But she does not give an
impression of having opera in
her blood, so that an excerpt
from “Lucia di Lammermoor”
lacked the stagey quality which
might have brought it to life. In
the less dramatic “Je suis
Titania,” though, this was not
so necessary, and the singer
found herself quite at home in
the vocal intricacies of the piece.
D. J. M-
Thea Rowe in Brisbane
After five years, the Brisbane
reappearance of Thea Rowe
shows her art to be as fresh as
ever. Her approach to folk-
songs never seems to stale, and
her repertoire has been restocked
with the gleanings of an over-
seas tour. Miss Rowe is a subtle
and intimate artist, a kind of
strolling-player belonging to an
old tradition. She fits some-
where into the gap between
lieder singer and the so-called
vocalist of popular fame.
All the songs of her pro-
grammes come from the British
Isles. They are sung and mimed
with touches of wit, irony and
malice appropriate to their vary-
ing moods. Between the songs
the patter never ceases, for there
is always an anecdote, or a sur-
prise from the indispensable
basket of clothes, to soften the
vivid impression of one piece of
drollery or rustic chivalry and
prepare the way for what is to
follow. The old crone of one
song does not find it difficult to
change into the young maiden or
the goggling rustic of the next.
Breffni Hosking’s handling of
a simple lighting system adds
immensely to the effect of these
x miniature dramas. Very striking
is his illumination of a song like
“Featherstone’s Doom,” a tale of
a Cornish ship-wrecker con-
demned to plait rope eternally
for his heartlessness towards the
crews he lured on to the rocks.
Played in a greenish half-light,
this piece has an atmosphere
touching on the macabre.
Elsewhere, too, shadows are
used to give effects of grimness
or of gaiety. In “Bonnie Mallie
Lee” there is the lamplight flick-
ering on the finery of a young
Scots girl walking through the
gloom of the Canongate to a
court ball, then after a quick
change comes the brilliance of
, the ballroom scene.
This Brisbane programme was
one of eccentric characters, par-
ticularly in) the boisterous
chronicles of Cornish life. There
could have been more opportuni -
ties for the pathos which Miss
Rowe has caught so well in the
past, but that is a small com-
plaint about a show which re-
mained lively for well over two
hours and brought to brief life
a gallery of characters whose
oddities were at once charming
and amusing.
D. J. M.
*l*
“Death of a Salesman”
Canberra Repertory’s perform-
ance of “Death of a Salesman”
was an outstanding one for
several reasons. This is one of
the important plays of the 20th
century, partly because it says
something which gives a deeper
understanding of mercantile
civilisation, and partly because
of the arid beauty of the
language in which the message
is unfolded, s.
It is a play about many things
—about money - values, the
people who are caught in the
web of time-payments, about the
empty ideal of getting on, and
the tragedy of Willie Loman,
who could not stand the pressure,
trying to teach his boys to “know
all the answers.”
The despair and bewilderment
of the salesman who did not
quite get there, either with him-
self or his sons, was played with
considerable power by Ric
Throssell. He made the character
live so well that Willie Loman
haunted one’s mind for days
after.
Jo Gibson’s production was
admirable. She overcame the
problems of limited properties
with a good deal of skill, and she
showed always a very sensitive
appreciation of the human values
she was handling. From the first
moment when the salesman
walked on with those two valises
to the last curtain one could
detect the certain, guiding hand
of the producer.
John Garran, Daphne Curtis,
Rodney Smith and Tom Eckers-
ley each made distinctive con-
tributions to a distinguished
performance.
Manning Clark.
Artbursts
In the Meldrum tradition, Rex
Bramleigh is showing, at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, the
fruits of a caravan trip to the
Goulburn Valley, There is a
freshness in his landscapes which
is carried over into his still-life
but isn’t seen so much in his
portraits. “Rosemary,” how-
ever, is a lively sketch of a nice-
looking subject, and “Studio In-
terior,” with the artist at work,
has depth and light in its
shadows. Leaden Sky” is a
sensitive study of misty moun-
tains.
Talkies
“The Red Beret”
This story of the exploits of
British paratroops, including a
raid to secure a vital piece of
German radar-equipment and
the capturing of an airfield from
Rommel’s Afrikakorps, bears the
hallmarks of the best British
film-making: authority (derived
in this case from co-operation
with the armed services), under-
statement, intelligent acting and
direction, and good climax-
building.
It would be hard to recall
more convincing acting than Leo
Genn’s portrait of the calm,
quietly spoken paratroop com-
mander who mixes a whimsical
humor with his discipline. Harry
Andrews, as an R.S.M., does
another sound piece of work.
Alan Ladd is a taciturn Canadian
ranker who carries the chief
heroic and romantic burdens.
At Sydney State.
■£♦ ijt
Other Sydney releases:
“The Heart of the Matter”
(Esquire); Another excellent
British film, based on Graham
Greene’s novel, about an assist-
ant police commissioner in Sierra
Leone who, frustrated in his job
and by his neurotic wife, tries to
live with his mistress and his
strong Catholic beliefs. It is
quietly worked-out by Trevor
Howard, Elizabeth Allen (the
wife), Maria Schell and Gerald
Oury as a slimy French black-
marketeer.
• • • •
“A Lion in the Streets”
(Palace): Intense, overblown
melodrama, with James Cagney
as a loud-mouthed rabble-rouser
who fights his way up from the
gutter to become a corrupt
politician.
• • • •
“Johnny Dark” (Lyceum):
A sportscar-race from Canada to
Mexico is the theme; fair
enough entertainment for those
who worship speed.


The Legend of Sister Merry Christmas
by Lyndall
Hadow
WHEN the truck came
back to the settlement
after the evening trip
to the train it was
nearly midnight. The children,
who had been locked in their
dormitories since sunset, woke,
most of them, as it coasted
through the compound, braking
at the store.
From the boys there came a
low hum of interest as the
hardiest, climbing to peer
through the wire-mesh windows,
gave their excited comments on
this midnight happening ; on the
girls’ side of the compound
there was a faint twitter of in-
terest from the little ones that
soon subsided, but in the big
girls’ dormitory, where the
mothers lived, the younger ones
of the group stood on the wired
veranda calling to their men
who’d been in on the truck.
“Cigarettes? Here, Joe, you
got my cigarettes? Eh, you,
Tom Carroll, where that lolly-
water for your kids tomorrow?”
“Who that one in the truck,
eh?”
“You see anyone in the town,
Horrie?”
“You lucky fellas . . . you go
into town —us fellas stay here
every night.”
“Come here, Joe. Who that
one in the truck? Where he
come from, eh? You know
’im?”
The men called back as they
started to unload the truck, heft-
ing off the cases of tinned goods,
the bales of Gumnut the women
would make-up in the clothing
factory; cases of fresh fruit for
staff quarters and timber for the
carpenter’s gang.
“You girls you all talk too
much.”
“You like the grass-parrots
And the girls called back
“You old crows yourself, you
boys. Quark, quark!”
“Tell us, Joe. What he come
here for?”
The men laughed, the girls
giggled, Mr. Mollison, the truck-
driver, walked over to staff
quarters with the mailbags.
Matron came out with him to
the truck and the dormitories
were quiet, all eyes watching:
and the men busy with the
unloading.
■CROM the cab came a voice—
A a woman’s voice—an old
voice—the voice of privilege.
“Ah! Matron! Good even-
ing, Matron. I’m sorry to take
you by surprise like this, but
this young man found me be-
nighted by the way . ..”
“What he? What he talk
about?”
“Shsh, Rosie Carnarvon! You
listen! ”
“Can I help you?” Matron
went to open the cab. Heads
craned against the wires to see,
but there was no movement from
the darkness that was the truck-
cab and the voice went on:
“It was unfortunate I left the
train. It had been reported to
me there was a mission in the
district . . .”
“There is a mission at the
Benedictine Community, but..
“And when I inquired as to
the best means of transport it
was only to discover . . .”
Mr. Mollison came from the
back of the truck, where, the
unloading finished, the men were
drifting off to their camps,
cigarettes glowing in the dark,
or possum-footing across to the
women’s dormitories to pass
through the wires the bottles of
cold lolly-water sweating in the
heat and to tell their tales of the
night’s doings at the rail.
“Excuse me, Matron.’.’ Mr.
Mollison opened the cab door.
“Come on, Sister,” he said
genially, “this is it! I’m on duty
at six, so I’ve got to get some
shut-eye.” He was helping her
down. “That’s right. Now
mind that step. And you can
tell Matron how you couldn’t
get out to the mission and you
were sitting on the railway-
station platform . . . there!”
He slammed the cab door,
put her stick in her hand, hung
her string-bag on it and left her
on the veranda of the store.
“Stand clear,” he called, sitting
in beside Joe Carroll at the
wheel, “Come on, you blokes,
want a lift to camp?”
Matron looked unbelievingly
at the tall, gaunt figure in her
dark habit, hung with bags and
knobbly bundles.
“That most amusing young
man!” wagging a finger at the
tail-light at the end of the com-
pound now. “That refreshing
young man!” And turning to
Matron. “I hope, Matron, it
will cause you no inconvenience
to put me up for the night. If it
puts you out at all I shall, of
course, be delighted to return
immediately to the rail . .
The heads craned, the ears
strained to catch the reply.
“Not at all, not at all.” Matron
fell into the jargon, “But
who? . . . what? . . , who are
you?”
The heads craned, the eajs
strained.
“I’m Sister Mary Christabel.
Of London. And you . . . ?”
The women crept back to their
beds in the darkness of the dor-
mitory, their giggles happy in the
night. The legend of Sister
Merry Christmas was begum
TT was summer on the sand-
plain, and the State school at
the settlement was closed for the
holidays. That left the children
with the bright hot days to fill;
all the jobs that Matron and Mr.
Mollison could devise for them
couldn’t be made to spin out
past mid-morning—the children
saw to that.
Sister Mary Christabel was no
help, either. She insisted on ris-
ing early, yet she delayed her
appearance at the breakfast-
table until the staff had hurried
through and gone to their jobs;
and to preserve the attitude of
welcome guest, day in, day out,
Matron wasted time over coffee
with her when she should have
been inspecting the compound
kitchen or discussing hospital
administration with the sister-
in-charge. With the super-
intendent away on long-service
leave, Matron’s duties had
doubled-up all round; she was
indeed a very harassed woman.
“Sister Mary Christabel can
be of assistance to you during
the superintendent’s absence,”
wrote the commissioner, “if
only with the maintenance of
discipline. I have discussed the
matter with the archbishop, and
while he feels that Sister Mary
Christabel must not be per-
mitted in any way to supersede
the visiting members of the
clergy who from time to time
attend to the religious instruc-
tion of your charges, his Grace
is of the opinion that Sister
Mary Christabel will be of great
assistance to you. Matron, in
many ways, especially with the
children. I concur.”
“Perhaps,” Matron wrote, one
midnight, being too busy during
the day for a long-distance call
to head-office, “perhaps you can
tell me how an English gentle-
woman of over seventy (she ad-
mits to sixty-five), who has been
travelling around the world
since the rest of her order passed
on, can be of use to us here
when she needs so much per-
sonal attention herself? For
instance, it takes two girls each
morning to prepare her bath for
her and one to stand outside the
door in case Sister Mary Christa-
bel calls. Only this morning she
dropped the soap overboard and
after she had robed again the
children had to go in and find it
under the heater-stand.... ”
The legend was indeed growing.
“When we went in” —Corrie
Beeton told the tale in the dor-
mitory—“ Sister Merry Christ-
mas stood in the corner an’ she
pointed her stick and told us to
try there . . . right under the
bathtub, so Minnie Minilya she
got under an’ she pushed the
soap further in the corner an’
old Sister Merry Christmas she
whacked Minnie with her stick
and said ‘Come out of that, you
black child of sin,’ and Minnie
crawled out backwards an’ old
Sister Merry Christmas she
grabbed Minnie’s leg and
Minnie, she kicked like a cow
with a pain in its belly.. ..”
“So you can be assured that
Sister IVfary Christabel is more
of a charge than a help,” wrote
Matron. “At present she is
confined to her room as a result
of a fall when she slipped on
the soap in the bathroom. I can
write at length on this matter
now. I’ve seen the truck in at
midnight from the rain, and it’s
now nearly one o’clock. I’m on
duty at six; in the meantime
Sister Mary Christabel is saying
her prayers for the sinful black:
her room is next to mine and
her voice has been trained to
carry . . .”
“I am still of the opinion.
Matron, that if the right atti-
tude is adopted with Sister Mary
Christabel she can be of invalu-
able assistance to you during the
superintendent’s absence, if only
in the maintenance of disci-
pline.”
Even a commissioner,
colonial-born, has been known to
falter at the imperious ring in
an English voice, memento of a
tradition of superiority. But he
overrated the effect on his
charges of that imperious voice,
that beckoning finger, that
pointing stick. Polite as always,
they didn’t let their laughter past
their lips; but their eyes were
elsewhere when the finger
beckoned, the stick pointed,
their ears tuned to the bird-calls
or their playmates’ shouts when
the imperious voice was directed
to them.
SO Sister Mary Christabel
usually spent her mornings
endeavoring to catch up un-
awares with any one of them;
mostly with little success. Of
course there was that one occa-
sion on which she cornered little
David Love: David had ac-
quired the name when he spent
two years at Princess Margaret,
and his limp was part of that
polio story; so David Love was
easily cornered and marched off
by Sister Mary Christabel.
“What she make you do?”
David grinned. “She make
me stand in the corner. An’ she
say I black boy . . .”
“Ha, ha!” Jimmy Dabchick
turned a cartwheel. “Us all
n-yoongars. What she? Sister
Merry Christmas only wai-
gella! ”
David had a story to finish.
“She say God make us black,
take away all the sin from the
waigellas.”
“You believe that true?”
“Who believe all that?” And
Jimmy Dabchick and Ronnie
Ratter and Horatio Wiluna
turned on Gladstone Corner.
“You believe that, Gladstone?”
“Not me! That’s . . . lies!”
“N-yoongars not black; most
all us n-yoongars brown!”
And after lunch Sister Mary
Christabel would sleep.
The children, for the first few
days, waited around hopefully ;
then, seeing there was to be no
entertainment provided by their
visitor, wandered off to their
river where a few pools still lay
encircled by the greedy sand and
the comfortable bush-growth.
The compound-bell would
call them home at four o’clock,
but then it was too late to enjoy
the old woman’s antics . , . the
children had tasks to do. The
evening meal came next —that
inexplicable meal that failed so
miserably to satisfy, yet seemed
to cost the Government so much
money that Sister Mary Christa-
bel would tell them how grate-
ful they should be when they
said their grace. She had been
in to see them at the meal only
once; then she had gone off to
her roast dinner in staff quarters,
but she still said they should
sing “We thank thee for this
food” to show how much they
loved God and Matron and the
superintendent and the commis-
sioner for providing their bread-
and-syrup and mugs of hot tea.
After tea came the bell again,
the prayers, the locking into the
dormitories and the long nights.
TT was in the interval between
tea and dormitory one even-
ing that Jimmy Dabchick let
himself be caught by Sister
Mary Christabel. Anything for
variety. The children gathered
around.
“And what . . the voice
was hard on their ears . , . “and
what have you been doing all
day when you should have been
working?”
Jimmy Dabchick looked at the
ground; then, remembering what
teacher had said about looking
up at waigellas, he raised his
eyes, but he couldn’t push them
up farther than the cross that
hung at her waist. But he wished
he hadn’t let her catch-up with
him! How he wished now that
teacher were back with them
again!
They all looked up at
teacher; her eyes smiled for
them and her voice was not hard
on their ears. Sometimes she
was tired and sometimes the
children did things to make her
cross, but Jimmy Dabchick and
the others could always look
right at her face, right into her
eyes. Teacher was theirs ; they
belonged to her and she belonged
to them. ,
“Answer me, boy. You, boy!
What have you been doing all of
God’s day while Matron and
Mr. Mollison have been working
for you? And the nurses, too.
Answer me, boy! Where have
you been?”
Jimmy Dabchick looked at
the ground . . . the safe ground ;
the grey sand, hard-beaten into
a track that led away down to
the men’s camp. He looked at
the ground and cautiously
moved one foot —a small splay
foot designed for walking on the
earth; he put it on top of the
other; then, nicely balanced,
out of the side of his eyes he
looked for help at Cissie Capper
and Rosie and Horatio; then
back to a point on the ground
where the old woman’s stick dug
in beside her big black heavy
boots. The stick point moved,
it swung up, prodded his skinny
chest.
“Tell me, you evil black child
of sin, tell me you have spent
God’s day in idleness!”
Cissie Capper was twelve, and
she was very much bigger than
Jimmy Dabchick, who was only
just nine. Her father was a big
man, too, a very good fighter.
He used to go around the coun-
try shows when he was younger,
and once he’d been at the big
show in the town.
Cissie, who listened to her
father’s stories of the world out-
side the settlement, knew more
than Jimmy Dabchick, who’d
been named after a little bird
that swam in the water where
his mother lived when he was
born, because no one knew the
name of his waigella father to
give him: so tonight, as the
stick came up again, Cissie
answered for him.
“He been digging clay for
Mr. Moll’son.”
It was a lie. Mollison hadn’t
wanted clay for a long time.
The cow-sheds and -bails hadn’t
been whitened for months be-
cause they were not in use now
. . . the cows were dry and
turned-out on the sandplain.
The trunks of the pine-trees
lining the compound had been
painted from the ground up as
high as the tallest man could
reach, just before the last visit
of the bosses from the office in
the city. Mollison had no use
for clay just now, and Jimmy
Dabchick hadn’t been down to
the clay-pit for weeks.
<6 /-'LAY? Digging clay?
What kind of clay? Come
on, girl, you! What kind of
clay?”
Cissie wasn’t sure. “Clay.
Just clay,” she said. “Like Mr.
Moll’son use for painting.”
“Pah! ” said Sister Mary
Christabel. “You boy! Come
here. Where is Mr. Mollison?
Take me to him.”
A hand gripping his shoulder,
Jimmy Dabchick was pushed
along: they went at a hoppety
bat because the compound was
rough with small stones, the old
woman’s feet not sure, her
parcels and bags hanging from
her wrists and waist swung
awkwardly, and her stick got in
the way.
Mr. Mollison explained that
the men slaked the clay down
at the camp ; it gave a good
wash; and pointed to the stone
fences around the Big House and
staff quarters.
Was there only white?
Mr. Mollison said, “No, Sister.
Cissie, tell Sister what other
colors you get.”
The children, safely clustered
at the edge of “Mr. Moll’son’s
store,” looked at each other but
no one spoke until, with a prod
of the stick, “Come on, girl! ”
“There’s red,” said Ossie
flatly.
Mollison said, gently but quite
firmly moving the stick away
from Cissie, “We don’t touch the
red, ourselves, Sister. It belonged
to the tribe that used to live
round here. We understand they
took it as a gift when they went
visiting other tribes that didn’t
o Continued on page 22}


< ■ »
-?:
W
P<L
M^'V
H
H
••
llllßii
■
VP ~■
■■tt ;
■- ■ ;•: ••
I
m
Miiiiiimi
t) rj||
* ' : | f | I |
*
iiiii
iii
ii*ii
■
A}
lliliiMiiliil
i
■ ;■
■f I ;||i:
Sfc;
I
aiiiiilStSf'
: k
■%
:: I;: - • I
H
- ■'
I ...v i
** j:; *
*' .. iiiiil
i
till
m
.gf* -dip
• A £
iHil:
M
H
■
:^ r . . . ■
J, v - :
u
fmmm.
.
,IS ? liiiljl* ;
H
11
■
•'. •" i : - ■
I :
■;: P
ai
PI I
illi
n i
■ m
#A
P PP P
■ ■■■■
•;
i
? - j
:;p : ...,
11
wm'%
mm
ihhii
Wmmk
><„ »
PPmWsm,
H: :
i HHi
4
*- ■ ,'
: :
8 n
- - ,■-?
11
/ -twl
*
Sfc-
pi *■* M
n, f ' ■ . . .
W$
PA ; ; " '
s
■ : s. - : v ;
w
’f x /
■I
PpPP,
• ** ■
t# | I
ISi (
■p SI
■
■M #■--■■■-.;•:.;■■
- -JOF M
■||n
Penny concert,
backyard style
The backyard musicale makes up in enthusiasm for what it
lacks in talent and experience. It’s good to see kids make their
own fun and show their individualism. But they’ll learn in
their travels through this world that the day of the one-man-
band is gone. That there are many things no man can do with
his own two hands. That we are all dependent on our neigh-
bours, our friends, our work mates.
Today is the day of co-operation. And that co-operation
leads to big planning. Big vision. Big deals. Big jobs.
Big business is part of today’s democratic way of life. Take
the motor industry. Every manufacturer of a motor vehicle is
in a big business. It must be big because it can’t do the job
of making cars and trucks in quantities unless it is big.
Big business means big money. Big revenue. Big wage bills.
Big buying from suppliers. Big taxes. And if it is a well
run business producing products of high quality at competitive
prices big profits, commensurate with the size of the business.
Profits help to build for expansion, to plan for even better
products, to provide for security of employment and to pay
the shareholders a fair return for the use of their money.
General Motors-Holden’s is the biggest automotive business
in this country. It has more invested, more in employment,
pays more in taxes, uses more Australian goods, and contributes
more to the prosperity of Australia, than any other automobile
company.
It is a big business doing big things for Australia.
... a link in the chain of Australia's progress
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. r ~ DOUGLAS R. LTSAGHT, Deputy Chairman.
ROBERT J. VICARS, ERNEST W. STREET, GREGORY B. EATER.
ALEXANDER H. DICKINS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1954.
To be presented to the Shareholders, at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 17th August, 1954, at noon precisely.
Capital _ LIABILITIES.
Authorised £ 12,000,000
In 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued —474,048 shares of £25 each £11,851,200 0 0
Less; Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 5,925,600 0 0
5,925,600 0 0
4,850,000 0 0
Paid up
Reserve Eund (whoUy used in the business of the Bank)
Pinal Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Punds £11,198,005 14
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, Including provisions for
contingencies 202,950,453 0 3
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £12,878,,196 19 8
Money at Short Call in London 1,062,500 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia 45,300,000 0 0
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and
due from other Banks 5,464,080 8 11
Treasury Bills —Australian Governments 16,000,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at or below
market value (including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities) —
Australian Government Securities 34,759,159 5 X
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 13,776,963 19 0
£129,240,900 12 8
8
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting provisions for debts
considered bad or doubtful) 7™'!?, , s ,
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts written oft q 9
All other Asset* ' 1.946,495 9 2
D. R. LYSAGHT
R. J. VICARS
| Directors.
£215,292,691 0 7
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head Office
and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the Cash at the
Head Office. We have obtained all the Information and explanations we have required, and in
our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of
the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required to
keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept. FRANCIS B OLIVER 7
Sydney, 15th July, 1954. MACQUARIE COWPER \ AU(Utors -
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1953, at the rate
of 8 per cent, per annum, paid on 22nd January, 1954
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows: —t
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1954, at the
rate of 8 per cent, per annum £189,560 10 0
~ Amount carried forward 232,845 4 0
£189,560 10
106,697 2
25,000 0
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1953
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1954, after payment of all expenses
of management, (including Directors’ Fees, £7,000) and provision for
taxes and for rebate on current bills and accrued Interest on fixed
deposits, and for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies
D. R. LYSAGHT ]
R. J. VICARS '
Directors.
422,405 14 0
£743,663 6 0
£214,886 0 1
528,777 5 11
£743.663 6 0
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
1954
RESERVE FUND
June 30 To Balance (wholly used In the business of the Bank) carried forward £4,850,000 0 0
£4,850.000 0 0
1953
June 30 By Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1953 .. £4,700,000 0 0
1954
June 30 „ Surplus arising from sale of 6,099 new shares 43,302 18 0
m „ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 106,697 2 0
£4,850,000 0 0
have that color—or perhaps they
didn’t have any clay of their
own, at all. That’s why we
don’t touch the red ourselves—
there’s not much of it left, they
say, even round about here.”
Sister Mary Christabel sniffed,
“One or two of our old men
go down to that particular spot
sometimes, though they don't
actually belong to the tribe that
used to be here—that’s died right
out now ; but the old chaps
take the young boys down
there ... try to tell ’em about it
all, I suppose.”
Sister Mary Christabel sniffed
again. The children edged away,
“There’s plenty of white,
though. We use that as much as
we like. Did you want some
whitewash, Sister?”
“No, Mr. Mollison. I shan’t
need any whitewash; but I wish
for some clay. White,” she said
with a grin of yellow teeth for
the man: and to Cissie, “all the
colors, too, you black child of
sin . . . tomorrow! ”
VX7HICH explained the expedi-
’ * tion to the clay-pit that
very next day. First there was
Sister Mary Christabel, her habit
flapping around her as she
ploughed through the sand, her
collection of bags and pat cels
hanging from her wrists, her
waist. With her stick she indi-
cated the way she would take at
every few yards and with her
other large, bony, well-fleshed
hand she gripped young Jimmy
Dabchick, pushing him ahead of
her.
“And if you lead me anywhere
else but the quickest way to that
red clay, you black son of sin.
God will punish you, and then
I will punish you and when the
superintendent comes back from
his furlough he will punish you! ”
The grip tightened on the skinny
little shoulder under its Gumnut
shirt, and Jimmy Dabchick led
on with no thought of taking
the old woman anywhere but by
the shortest way to the clay-pit.
He was frightened of her; also
his stomach was empty, even so
soon after breakfast and her
waigella smell made him feel
sick.
Behind and strung out on both
sides, the rest of the children
walked and skipped and ran:
down the slope of hard bare sand
from the ridge that was the
compound, through the cutting,
flood-carved in the banks of an
ancient watercourse ; up the long
slope of the opposite bank where
the muttlegars dotted the hungry
sand ; through a short burst of
plain, scrub-covered, down into
a gravelly breakaway, around a
corner overhung with prickly
wattle, and they were at the
entrance to the clay-pits.
An old man was there before
them ; old Dunglebar. He must
have been a fine man in his
young buck days, somewhere up
in the saltwater country; even
now there was, despite Mr.
Mollison’s dungarees, something
that belonged to the heat of the
day, the deep of the kittyhawk’s
sky, the dun of the bush ; some-
thing that avowed and acknow-
ledged his kinship with this
silent, waiting land.
He rose from his squat and his
old splay feet found balance for
his wasted frame. “That’s
Dunglebar! ” No one knew who
spoke; the children were not
afraid of the old man, but polite-
ness kept them from making the
approach to his age. They waited
for the first move.
Sister Mary Christabel stopped
in her toil through the sand. She
was out of breath, sweating
heavily. She mopped her red
face with an edge of her veil.
Then she sat, choosing her seat
carefully on an abutment of
solid white, stained with the rain
and drifting vegetation of the
years. The children stayed at the
edge of the clearing. What now?
What would she say to Dungle-
bar? What would he say to
her?
She planted her feet firmly,
disposed her bags about her.
“You black son of sin,” she
said, “move away from there and
get back to your work. I’ll
report you to the superintendent
when he returns; and you boy,
and you and you there, bring me
some of that red clay in there
Be quick about it or I shall be
late for the midday meal. I
should not mind,” she said to
herself, “but it would incommode
Matron.”
The clay was what she
wanted . . . the prized red and
some of the siennas and ochres.
Under her direction the children
carried back parcels of it to the
compound. That afternoon
Matron and Mr. Mollison went
down to the old men’s camps at
the end of the settlement, bearing
new dungarees and tobacco and
sugar, all of which the old men
received with the noncommittal
grunt that was their only
response at all times to these
queer waigellas with whom their
lot had been thrown. Dunglebar
was not one of them. He was
still squatting by the entrance to
the clay-pits and didn’t come
back to the camps for a couple
of days.
'THE commissioner authorised
the purchase of a small
electric kiln which was set up in
the “special dormitory for the
most promising' of the school-
girls,” while the girls themselves
were sent back to the detestation
of the big girls’ dormitory.
Sister Mary Christabel was
then installed, and here she began
the making of small pottery
pieces.
Somewhere in her travels
Sister Mary Christabel had
acquired a superficial knowledge
of the elements of the making
of pots; she now had time,
materials, equipment and labor
for her entertainment. On one
of her frequent visits to the city,
she assured the commissioner’s
assistant (the commissioner him-
self being unavoidably but
immediately in conference when
he heard the braying at the door)
that with her skill and the help
of the children she should have
ready in a few months a collec-
tion sufficient for an exhibition.
“Of course it- entails much
organisation and labor at my
end,” she trumpeted, so the com-
missioner on the other side of
the partition would be unable
not to hear. “These savages are
entirely useless and lazy: and,
as you can imagine, I have no
help from Matron. In fact, I am
of the opinion,” continued Sister
Mary Christabel, who was not
slow herself at acquiring a
jargon; “in fact, I am of the
opinion that Matron should be
reprimanded for her active
opposition to the scheme.”
The deputy assistant commis-
sioner murmured incoherently.
“After the commissioner’s
foresight and kindness in pro-
viding the equipment” the
commissioner, on the other side
of the partition, flinched at the
reminder that someone, some-
time, would query that expendi-
ture —“it is reprehensible of
Matron to insist that the children
should attend school when they
could be assisting me in this
venture.”
The deputy assistant commis-
sioner explained, now slightly
less incoherently, that it was
embodied in the regulations that
these children should receive
instruction —attendance at school
was compulsory now the holi-
days were over; Matron was
merely administering the regu-
lations as they applied to her
charges. He coughed apologeti-
cally, opened a file.
Sister Mary Christabel settled
more firmly in her seat. “The
Government should be ashamed,”
she decreed, “at wasting the tax-
payers’ money in trying to
educate these savages. Send
them out to work! In Africa,
now , , . Yes, I think I shall
send a report to the Home
Secretary.”
MEANTIME the children’s
lives were further enriched
in school-hours by this new
and fascinating hobby. Teacher
showed them in class how to
handle the wedged clay that had
been prepared for her down at
the old men’s camp by Mr.
Mollison and the men them-
selves: and with fingers tradi-
tionally adept at such skills as
the making, for instance, of
hundreds of cat’s-cradle designs
from one piece of fibre, what
was to stop them from turning
out little squeezed clay figures
of almost subtle simplicity, from
the earth?
Collected and taken by teacher
to the city on one of her
precious trips away from the
settlement, and fired in a friend’s
kiln, the white clays turned the
color of weathered, faded gum-
leaf-drift —the color of Jimmy
Dabchick; the ochre, when it
came from the kiln, was the
brown of wild honey from the
tree —the color of Cissie Capper,
almost.
They hadn’t used the deep,
rich red ; there was so little of it
left in the pocket of the pit now,
and who among the old men
could say that it would never be
needed again when the tribes
should gather? So the red
remained untouched except for
the supply the children had
brought up for Sister Mary
Christabel on that first day; it
fired a dull, dark brown and the
old woman said that was all she
expected; it was only rubbish,
anyway!
The one small figure squeezed
by Cissie from scraps of the red
filched from the old woman’s
workbench fired that same dark
brown; it looked almost like
little David Love, The children,
of course, were delighted, the
devout among them gaining
strength in their devotion to
teacher and God, who had pro-
duced these miracles, to prove
that God, who made the clay in
the first place, loved n-yoongars,
too.
So, warmed by the magical
transformation of those first little
figures of their own that now
stood on the window-sills of the
schoolroom for all to see, the
children would gather around the
special dormitory at the other
end of the compound after
school, and watch Sister Mary
Christabel at work, until she’d
send them off to Mr. Mollison
for more clay or to staff quarters
for a billy of tea.
She worked without a wheel-
simple unglazed flat shapes; the
children copied her in the school-
room and soon there were little
saucers and plates on the school-
room shelf. Then the children
found the old woman building up
a vase: they went back to the
schoolroom, and in next to no
time they were showing teacher
how to coil and pinch and
stroke: soon teacher’s friend in
the city fired their first small
bowls.
IVTOT long after that. Sister
Mary Christabel decided she
had enough pieces for her exhibi-
tion. She had them all carefully
packed by Mr. Mollison under
her own supervision, and railed
to the city. Then with her bags
and bundles she left the settle-
ment ; the last that was heard of
her was that she was showing
the pieces at various mothers’
meetings . . . “all the work of
our untaught native craftsmen in
their wild state, and using the
materials that come to their
hand.” The proceeds, it was
understood, were to be applied
to the relief of their black
brothers in Melanesia.
The electric kiln was returned
to Government Stores in the city,
and on the settlement interest in
the making of pots waned until
it vanished ; and the little figures
and saucers were lost. Once
more a waigella had come and
a waigella had gone. Like
commissioners, superintendents,
matrons and nurses, the old
woman with her stick and her
parcels and her big boots spat-
tered with clay was there one
day and not there the next.
But when you hear the voice
of Portland Square among the
mimics at play in the compound,
when you see the beckoning
finger, the pointed, prodding
stick, you know that the legend
of Sister Merry Christmas still
lives among the n-yoongars out
there on the sand-plain.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JT. E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
plmMLmj
a amyd
v*
i : :
mm
m
mm
I i
-vs.
;■
• ••
m
1
At Yarra Falls, fifty thousand
such spindles are whirling away
spinning yarn from pure
Australian virgin wool, which in
the same huge plant is being
woven into Australia’s finest
worsted suitings.
, There is no substitute
for WOOL
m
I
0f OU AIV^
YARRA FALLS LTD.
The Bush navigator
by Will Lawson
IT was one of those afternoons
on the old Murray River,
when the stream rolls on
silently, with something beau-
tiful in the power of its waters,
when it seems nothing strange
can happen; and then, all of a
sudden, it happens.
Captain Tom Newton of the
old cargo-boat Wanera was
jogging down - river, with a
rhythmical beating of the
paddles. Beside him on the
bridge deck was a passenger who
was making the trip to write
stories of the river; eager to see
all he could.
As she swung into Rufous
Reach, the skipper observed over
his shoulder a strange formation
of cloud. He drew the attention
of Johnson, the passenger, to it,
with the remark, “Looks like a
dashed aeroplane, don’t it?”
“Yes, but it’s just a cloud, I’m
sure,” Johnson said.
“I’m not. Swear it was a big
plane. Look now! ”
As he argued, Dan the barge-
master in the barge towing astern
began to look, too, and soon all
hands were staring at the clouds.
It was then that things began to
happen.
Rufous Reach is a bad place
for shoals, and soon the Wanera
found one of them —hit it hard,
too. Instantly the skipper blew
his whistle to warn the barge-
master, Dan, to swing his barge
out wide, lest it ram the steamer.
Loaded heavily with wool, it
would damage her badly. Dan
was quick in swinging out wide.
The towline was free to tow in
any direction from the towing-
mast, which was higher than the
funnel. Presently the barge
stopped, too, and lay head-on
to the steamer, like a wild horse
facing its captor.
'T'O the passenger this was
alarming. But the skipper
and crew took it in their stride,
all in the day’s work.
“Take a line and make it fast
to that tree, over there,” Captain
Tom said, indicating a tree astern
of the stranded boat. “Make it
snappy, too, We’re late,” he
added,
“Pity she wasn’t an aeroplane,”
a deckhand said.
“That’ll be enough of that,”
said the skipper. “Is that line
fast?” he called to the men who
had gone off in the dinghy.
“Yes, skipper.”
“Then,” he ordered the men in
the boat, “take a turn round the
drum on the paddle-shaft. Slow
astern, Mac,” he told the whis-
kered engineer.
As the engine went astern
slowly it made the line taut which
held the boat to the tree, the
paddles turned slowly, the whole
boat quivered with the strain.
Then, while the line hummed, the
old boat began to walk over the
mudbank she was on, till in
twenty minutes she was afloat
again.
By this time the barge had
drifted, and now was found to
be ashore, too. So a line was
passed to her from the steamer,
and she was hauled into deep
water. Within twenty minutes of
the grounding, both vessels were
afloat again, and ready to pro-
ceed.
When the trouble was over,
some of the men began express-
ing opinions about how it hap-
pened,
“Staring at dashed aeroplanes
did it, I say,” Giggler Murphy
said. “Like Ratty Morgan once
saw goannas swimming down the
river—a dozen of ’em, he swore
he saw. Turned out to be a
tree floating down, with funny
branches sticking up.”
They had believed the skipper
was off the bridge, and the mate
steering, so they got a shock
when the skipper thrust his head
over the rail and said, “I’m lis-
tening, you smart boys. Now
if I said I saw a canoe coming
down the river, what would you
say?”
“I’d hate to tell you,” Giggler
replied, in that easy brotherly
way that prevails in river-boats.
“Well, take a look over there,”
Skipper Tom said, “in under the
bank. Ain’t that a canoe with
a kid in it?”
“Spare me days,” Giggler said,
“there is a canoe over there.
Look, boys!”
SURE enough they saw a small
canoe paddling along. Ob-
viously the paddler had not seen
the steamer, half-hidden by trees
o* the point. The skipper blew
a short blast on the whistle. The
paddler stopped and looked, then
began paddling swiftly towards
them.
The skipper hailed him.
“Where are you bound, sonny?”,
The canoeist was a lad about
sixteen years of age.
“Adelaide,” the boy said,
A man laughed and said, “Ye
can’t get to Adelaide on this
river.”
“Shut up,” the skipper said
and called to the lad, “Come on
board, son. You look about
done. Where did you start out
from?”
His answer startled them all.
“Tumut.”
“Tumut? You mean you
came, down the ’Bidgee and all
the way to here in that darned
cockle-shell! Where’s your
food?”
“I don’t carry much gear, or
tucker, just buy a loaf of bread
here or there; maybe catch a
fish. I’m doing it for a bet.”
“The devil you are,” the skip-
per swore. “But, sonny, this
river only goes within forty miles
of Adelaide. Get up here and
have a good feed and a sleep.”
“The river doesn’t go to
Adelaide? How do you make
that out? On the map it does.
No, thanks, I bet I’d go all the
way in my canoe. So I can’t
come on board, thanks,” he said.
“You can have a feed, any-
way,” the skipper said, “That
won’t bust your bet. Come on.
We’ll be tied up here for a long
while.”
The boy hesitated, then said:
“All right, just for a feed. I
am pretty hungry. I got some
bread at Wentworth, but it fell
in the river. I’m looking for a
farmhouse.”
“And you’ve struck us —much
better,” the skipper said, kindly.
He was sorry for this lad; he
looked poor and half-fed. “We’re
just going to eat, so join us.
Giggler, make the canoe fast
alongside.”
The skipper took the lad up to
the chart-room, which was also
the mess-room, and the men
gathered round, to listen to his
tale of navigating the Tumut and
Murrumbidgee and Murray as
far as Rufous Reach, about 200
miles in all.
It was unbelievable, yet they
believed him —he was so honest
and earnest,
A FTER tea the skipper said
“Have a sleep now, son. It’s
late. Soon will be dark. We’ll be
laying here all night—there's
some sacks over there behind the
boiler. Lay down ...”
“8ut...” the lad began ; then
he lay down, “just for half an
hour. Wake me, won’t you?
I’ve got to get to Adelaide on my
own.”
“We’ll wake you in the morn-
ing ; we’ll be here all night.”
Skipper Tom said. He was talk-
ing to one who seemed dead.
The boy was sound asleep.
Then the skipper spoke to the
deckhands.
“Get that canoe on deck.
Shake it up. We’ve got to get on
our way. Start her easy, Mac.
Poor little devil, paddling all the
way to Adelaide. We’ll give him
a ride. He won’t wake up till
we’re tied up at Overland
Corner.”
“And supposing he does wake
in the night? ” the passenger said.
“If he does I’ll tell him a tale,”
the skipper said. “That kid is
dead-beat, likely to collapse. He
won’t wake for hours, I tell you.”
Nor he did, even though the
barge grazed Cadell Rock and
sprang a leak, and had to be
brought alongside the steamer
and a steam-siphon used to
squirt the water from her till she
got to Morgan.
At Overland Corner, the young
voyager was still asleep. When
at last he woke, his canoe was
back in the water, and lying
alongside. The cook had half-
filled it with cooked food, bread,
butter and other things.
“How long have I been
as } ee p9” the bush-navigator
asked.
'-pHE skipper told him he had
A slept all night. After break-
f as t fie must be on his way to
Adelaide, as the steamer would
sailing, too.
“Stay aboard if you want to,”
the skipper said.
The lad shook his head.
“That would not win me the
bet,” he said. “I must paddle all
the way to Adelaide.”
After breakfast, they shoved
him off with a good breakfast
inside him. Rain which had
fallen all night had cleared and
it was a glorious morning.
“I had a look at the map,”
he said as he started. “I see the
river don’t go right to Adelaide;
I’ll have to go round by sea.”
They waved farewell.
“Poor kid,” Giggler Murphy
said. “They won’t let him get
past Goolwa.”
Half an hour later, the Wanera
overtook and passed him, pad-
dling strongly, and they watched
him vanish behind a bend astern.
“Poor little beggar,” Skipper
Tom said. “Just a bush-boy and
as game as a lion,” He turned to
Johnson, his passenger, “We
see strange things on the old
river, but this beats them all. All
the way from Tumut to Adelaide
by water. Good job he didn’t try
to fly ; he would have broken his
neck. But Old Man Murray
won’t let him down.”
THE THREE CHILDREN OF MERCY
Mercy called her children three
Friend, Faith and Felicity.
Go forth, young Friend; if any ask
Your visa, say your mother’s task;
Where barbed frontiers are set
Take loving cup and calumet.
Ride forth, young Faith, my pillared fire.
Through whirlwind deserts of desire;
Nor let the cruel fanatic’s wrath
Debase the lustre of your worth.
How often they turn back to meet
Mercy, shamed in their defeat!
My children dear, go forth again,
Time runs no glass for sinful men.
But ever close beside her knee
Keeps little gay Felicity.
n.z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON


BACKED BY 50 YEARS OF ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP
gives you more
of what every owner wants
As English as England
You know best what you want in a car. That’s why you must see
these Vauxhall’s first-hand to appreciate just how much more they
have to offer. Look at their styling sleek, yet dignified with long
low lines and exceptional width. Check their performance the
satisfying power of the famous Vauxhall “Square Engine” and the
neat way they handle on broad highway or busy street. Test the
comfort, too ... the effortless way Vauxhall’s independent front
suspension irons out the road beneath you. Check all these
things . . . then consider Vauxhall’s modest price, its high resale
value. You’ll agree that Vauxhall really does give you more.
Come in today !
Vauxhall Family Saloon available as a 15.63 h.p. O.H.V. 4 cyl.
Wyvem and 23,44 h.p. O.H.V. 6 cyl. Velox. Passenger comfort
for 5-6 people plus a capacious luggage boot List prices
from £920 plus Sales Tax.
Designed for those who delight
in the open road, the Vauxhall
Vagabond has room for 5-6
plus an unusually large luggage
boot. A dashing sports tourer
. . . easily convertible to a
snug all-weather car. Two
models to choose from the
thrifty 4 cyl. “Wyvern” or the
spariding 6 cyl. “Velox”. List
prices from £9OO plus Tax.
All the comfort of a 3 passen-
ger coupe plus a true 10
cwt. carrying capacity. Avail-
able in “Wyvern” or “Velox”
models. List prices from
£B9O plus Sales Tax.
‘‘VAGABOND” SPORTS TOURER
|Oj
EM
10 CWT. COUPE UTILITY
Vanxliall
Ask about the G.M.A.C. Con-
fidential Hire Purchase Plan.
Ask too about the built-for-
Vauxhall “ Air chief" Car Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL* MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VSJ4/33 .... . .
One of the
best hands
✓
about the
place
A “Dangar-Gem” equipped as a two unit
milker will milk 20 or more cows an hour
with ease.
For segregating part of your herd, for stud
cattle or for small herds you can have all
the advantages of machine milking without
costly installation by using
DANGAR-GEM
Use it anywhere on the farm, in the milking
sheds, in a bail or even in the paddock and
save time, money and drudgery.
Full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
P.O. Box 509 Phone : BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
_ „
To buy copy of Grey Green Home-
stead by “Steele Rudd. —5869.
To buy copy of The Journal of J. G.
MacDonald. Author was a native of
Campbelltown (N.S.W.), who spent
most of his life in Queensland as an
explorer, and later as a magistrate.—
5870.
History of the township of Putty
(N.S.W.) on the Putty-road, between
Singleton and Riehmond.-5871.
* r
inrormanon oougnt
(1 ) Any record of the first vessel to-
bring free settlers to Melbourne in
1834 from North of Ireland ? (2) If
so, would it be possible to trace the
passenger-list ? (i) Any records of
births, deaths and marriages that
occurred in Melbourne during the very
early days? (4) Was Bolingbroke
the original estate that in course of
d TL b fu ame Moonee Ponds, suburb
of Melbourne? Can the name of the
original settler be traced?
(1) As Melbourne was not founded
till late in 1835 no free settlers could
have arrived in 1834. The first emi-
grant ship to arrive from Great Britain
was the David Clarke, which reached
Melbourne in 1839, and she brought
Scotsmen. As her logbook is in
the Vic. Public Library, it could be
consulted. The names of her pas-
sengers are contained in it. (2) There
is now an Archives Section at the Vic.
Public Library which conta i ns many
of the ships’ papers, brut we doubt if
there are any earlier than 1850. The
local papers, of which the “Argus,”
which took over Fawkner’s “Adver-
tiser is the oldest, used to give the
names of the first-class or cabin pas-
“"J'r s -Ma”yot the earliest settlers
an , ded eit^er m Sydney or Tasmania
fSfa'a »Med Sy
from Tasmania. John Batman was
the first to arrive in the Rebecca
in May, 1835, and John P. Fawkner’s
vessel Enterprise followed in
August. (3) As Victoria was the Port
Phillip district of N. S Wales all
records should be in N.S.W. until
separation took place m July, 1851.
(4) We have no information regarding
Bolingbroke. The first land-sales
were ordered by Governor Richard
Bourke in 1837, and research would
probably unearth the original settler.
* * • •
_
Recipe for pot-pourri ? Does it
need a special jar for storage ?
No special jar is needed, but it
should be of pleasant appearance, and
have a lid, which is removed occasion-
ally to allow the perfume to emerge.
Jars with pierced lids for the purpose
are made by china firms, and are
smelling plants; especially suitable are
deep red roses, jasmine, violets, brown
?T mary ’ and lavender, the
: n lu aaied • £ artlc ulariy s^ e
“ tru , e van *y which has
®“°°^' s ‘ d fM eaves *, *? ry ' de t bl ?*’
collection from riiw’ofllw?
such V
ma y b as S nrtoSed Sul U
.J nn J^ e : ? »
che m i?t a ddiahS St scSt
„ h h ich dellEhl£ul ““ scen ‘
....
Some information on Scotland’s
Coronation Stone, lately in the news
dfter being taken from Westminster
Abbey ?
The Stone of Scone, or the Corona-
tion Stone, is so ancient that no one
knows its actual origins It has a
documented history of 900 years, a
presumed history of 400 years before
that and nossiblv had a significance
even before that. Legend states that
t he stone was originally Jacob’s pillow
and that it reached Scotland through
Egypt, Spain and Ireland. Some Irish
claim that it is the Lia Fail, the
legendary stone of kings once sited in
Tara. However, despite these legends,
geological evidence suggests that the
stone was hewn at Scone from the
native red sandstone. In 1296 Edward
I of England, having overrun part of
Scotland, removed the stone from
Scone Abbey, and had it set in a
specially constructed chair at West-
minster Abbey; after the 14th century
it was used in the crowning of English
monarchs. The stone became head-
line news when four young Scottish
nationalists (three men and a girl), led
by a law-student, lan Hamilton, broke
in and seized it on Christmas Day,
1950. It was hidden (except for a
part which had broken off and was
taken to Birmingham) in a field near
Rochester, in Kent. Later they
managed to get the whole stone into
Scotland and, repaired, it was placed
(April, 1951) in the grassy nave of
ruined Arbroath Abbey, where the
declaration of Scottish independence
had been signed in 1320. It was taken
back to Westminster Abbey in Febru-
ary, 1952.
Brief Answers
R. 8.: Two Songs of ’57, with notes
by Hugh Anderson. Obtainable from
Hugh Anderson, 18 Nepean Highway,
Mordialloc, Vic W.L.S.: The Key-
line Plan by P. A. Yeomans is obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
A.E.K.: See article “The Search for
Uranium” by A. G. Palmer in The
Bulletin of July 21, 1954
W.F.C.: Can be expected to return
better than bank interest. Capital
value of units will keep more or less
in step with average Stock Exchange
value of basic securities,. . .P.T.H.:
Write Michau, wigmaker, 160 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .N.M.S.: C. J.
Dennis’s “Austral aise” appeared
in The Bulletin of December 12,
1912 A.W.: “Australian Pigeon
Gazette” (monthly), 18 Anglo-road,
Campsie (N.S.W.). Subscription, £1
a year... .R.J.C.; From Angus
and Robertson, 66 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne E.R.: Write Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney.
I.S.: (1) Karl Marx was, of
course, a Communist. Actually he
was one of the originators of Com-
munist doctrines. With Friedrich
Engels he produced the Communist
Manifesto in 1847. There were no
Communist parties on present-day
lines in existence in Marx’s day, but
some of the Socialist groups in various
countries immediately adopted Marx’s
teachings. (2) As far as inland com-
munication is concerned, Africa is the
most badly served of all the conti-
nents. However, of late years road-
and rail-construction has been under-
taken, particularly in territories such
as the British West African colonies,
Uganda and the Belgian Congo. There
is no main arterial highway across
Central Africa from east to west; but
there are, of course, good roads in
South Africa. (3) The Tower of London
was built by William the Conqueror,
partly inside and partly outside the
walls. At first the tower was a Royal
residence as well as a fortress. Then
the kings lived more and more at
Westminster, and the tower, became
mainly a prison. (Charles II is said
to be the last monarch to sleep within
its walls.) Today it is mainly a
national “sight,” and is also a mili-
tary barracks. It is situated on the
northern approaches to the Tower
Bridge, which is the last bridge down
the Thames.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.N,: Spring comes but once a year,
but spring poems a dozen a day
R J.K.: In an office guessing-competi-
tion to determine what it was the
Religious Editor took the prize for
suggesting a sermon. Was he right?
J.T.C.: “What’s wrong with it?”
Theme’s ancient, execution languid.
H.L.: Would never have guessed
that you “worked at the damn’ thing
for weeks and weeks”... .D.T.S.:
“Where is my wandering boy?” He
left here immediately after his arrival.
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
....F.W.: Don’t actually object to
covering-letters, but at least make
them shorter than the yarn....VJ.:
Original! It was old when Sydney
was first settled C.0’8.: Languish-
ing in the w.p.b W.R.: The pea-
shootirtg parson’s son has had his
day WJJ.: Hero washed ashore
from wrecked yacht, rids the little
farm of cattle-duffers and finds a
goldmine! Out!... .P. 8.: It’s out
on the open road again E.N.F.:
Gave it up when the damsel began
“weeping on the golden sands to the
accompaniment of the sighing of the
waves” 8.C.: Couldn’t tell who
the old gent, with whiskers who kept
wandering in and out of the story was
supposed to be, unless it was Henry
Parkes come back to life.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 252], G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS i...
1 2 months £1/1 6/—
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2
C Please add exchange to
Foreign
.... £2/10/-
cheques)
On Macleay Island
An Australian Utopia
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
THERE is an island on the
Australian coast where
nobody pays land tax,
local-authority rates or
automobile registration; where
file residents—other than those
who go there ostensibly to
recover from them—have no
ulcers.
Its community is a co-operative
one and, in many ways, self-
sufficient. Time is no object,
and, apparently because of this,
an impressive percentage of the
inhabitants are a flourishing
three-score years and twenty.
If this is not a Utopia, then
Sir Thomas More wasted his
A CORNER OF MACLEAY
Renaissance ink writing about
the ideal society.
Macleay Island—-for that is its
real name —rises in sub-tropical
seclusion 50ft. (at its highest
point) from the Pacific Ocean
among a group of islands of
which the largest is Stradbroke,
lying off the mainland at Red-
land Bay just south of Brisbane.
Well-known coastal features in
the immediate vicinity are, north-
ward, Moreton Bay and Moreton
Island, and, southward, the
abutting rocky height of Point
Danger.
Three miles long and three-
quarters of a mile wide at its
longest and widest parts, and
barely 1500 acres in area,
Macleay Island is one of the
smallest of the cluster. Atlases
generally omit it, but it appears
with a prominence worthy its
distinction on any map of the
parish of Russell, Queensland.
It was named after colonial
administrator and naturalist
Alexander Macleay (1767-1848),
member of a family which
figured largely in the history of
New South Wales for 50 years,
and founder of the Macleay
Museum at the University of
Sydney ; but the island was given
his name probably more because
of his encouragement of early
exploration in Australia.
There are no more than 25
families on it, living quietly,
cheaply and simply but progres-
sively. To these must be added
the islanders’ motor-cars, most
of which are models of ancient
but reliable vintage, and the goats
that are the source of the daily
milk-supply.
The population of less than
100 is concentrated mainly in
the southern half of the island,
where holders of 20 farms of
sizes varying from 10 to 20
acres engage in growing, in sandy
but loamy soil, tropical fruits
such as bananas, pawpaws and
passionfruit, and ground-crops
such as cucumbers, melons, beans
and tomatoes.
The fruits thrive as the
islanders do in the frost-free
climate and are sent to the Bris-
bane markets for distribution,
Another “export” is timber, cut
by the two sawmills operating in
the island’s northern half.
From this northern region,
uncultivated and dominated by
virgin forests of cypress-pine, the
islanders obtained the timber
with which, through co-operative
effort, they built their homes at
little outlay to themselves except
hard labor. The whole of the
inhabited part of the island has
been, and is being, developed by
private enterprise and pride.
The islanders made, and main-
tain, their own roads, the main
“highway” of which, a loose-
surface but serviceable thorough-
fare, follows from north to south
the ridge dividing the eastern and
western sides of the island. All
roads lead to the jetty at the
northern end, where the barge
berths which carries, tri-weekly,
island timber and, sometimes,
vehicles to the mainland four
miles away, and where, daily, a
boat from Redland Bay unloads
meat and bread, the chief —and
very nearly the only—“imports,”
since there is a plentiful supply of
fresh vegetables and milk on the
island, fish abound in the
adjacent waters, and oysters are
bred in the clear and tranquil
miniature bays.
Working to a roster system,
the islanders take turns to porter
incoming supplies from the jetty
to the respective farms. The only
person who is paid for his
services, and who consequently
may be regarded as the island’s
one “official,” is bushman Jack
Salmon, the semi-honorary post-
man —otherwise a fencer —who
meets the mailboat and sorts and
delivers the letters and parcels ;
his sorting-table is the jetty. For
this he receives a Government
grant of £3 10s. a week.
The women of Macleay return
with the mailboat to the niain-
land when they have shopping to
do in Brisbane, which is reached
by bus from Redland Bay. But
many of their groceries they
-obtain from a store on Karra
Garra Island next-door, where
Matthew Flinders marked a tree
on his voyage of exploration in
those waters in the Norfolk in
1799; he is said to have anchored
in a deep hole off Macleay.
Besides the groceries, enter-
tainment and formal education
also have to be got outside
Macleay. There are, as yet, no
civic amenities On the island ;
although residents are aiming at
a community hall and a set of
shops, made of cypress-pine.
At present, for an evening’s
picture programme, they go
either to Redland Bay or to
Russell Island, four miles to the
south-east the State school
centre for the Macleay Island
youngsters, who embark for
lessons each morning in a special
Government-subsidised school-
boat.
In effect divorced from
“civilisation,” Macleay is, in fact,
in reasonably close contact with
it, not only by barge- and mail-
boat-service, but by telephone
and radio; though the latter
form of communication is
admittedly rather tortuous.
A call from Brisbane is trans-
mitted by telephone to Redland
Bay, from there relayed by cable
to Russell Island, and from
Russell by radio to another
island of the group, Lamb
Island. From Lamb the message
is sent again by cable to Macleay,
where it is further relayed by
one of the rare island telephone-
lines to the addressee, or to the
resident nearest the addressee
who has a phone.
One of the few residents with
a telephone is octogenarian Mr.
Jim Gibson, who often walks
considerable distances to deliver
urgent messages. By trade a
joiner, he served his apprentice-
ship under Scottish craftsmen
and still makes pieces of furni-
ture for himself or for fellow-
islanders. The interior fittings
of St. John’s Cathedral, Brisbane,
are an example of his hand-
work.
The oldest islander is 87-year-
old Boer War veteran Mr.
George Thompson, whose home
is an old boat which he salvaged,
converted and raised on blocks
near the beach.
Macleay, with its temperate
insular summers and crisp
winters without frost, is ideal in
climate as well as for its “society
where none intrudes”—as a
number of present residents
found out who began by visiting
or holidaying on the island but
ended by surrendering whole-
heartedly to its appeal and retir-
ing there.
Witness Mr, Jack Hogg, late
of the motor industry and now
one of Macleay’s keenest citizens
and fishermen, and Mr. E. Setter-
field, who from his Utopia, by
remote-control, manages a circuit
of picture-theatres in Brisbane,
Then there are the settlers of
i ong standing, such as Mr.
Richards, who has been an
islander for 40 years, and
Captain Timothy Simmonds
(World War I), a Macleay farmer
an( j warden of the island, which
is a sanctuary for wild-life. One
0 f the sanctuary’s “features” are
the pelicans ; they come in with
a p the elegance and grace of the
flying-boats for which near-by
Redland Bay is a terminal.
The original inhabitants or, at
least, frequenters of Macleay
Island were the aborigines,
evidence of whose past occupa-
tion or visitations exists in heaps
of shells, believed to be the last
traces of their feasts, that have
been discovered on some of the
present-day farms. Yams, a
staple food of the blacks, still
grow wild.
The island was first settled by
whites when an Irish migrant,
Timothy O’Shea, received a deed
of grant for the place from the
Crown. O’Shea, about 1880,
had the land surveyed and sub-
divided, and the lot was eventu-
ally sold by auction, on Macleay,
for ss. and 10s. an acre.
“Tinker” Campbell, an early
entrepreneur and a pioneer of
Queenslapd’s Darling Downs,
bought a block at the island’s
isouthern end and established a
salt-works, the only remains of
which, now, are indifferent-
looking ruins and an old rusty
boiler, derelict near the water’s
edge. Today all property on the
island is freehold.
Macleay is a happy island, full
of friendly and hospitable people.
If it has a flaw, it is that its calm
and sunniness can sometimes
turn cyclonic ; then dwellers and
livelihoods are threatened.
, The island’s banana-growers,
for instance, were hit as hard
as their trees were by the cyclone
which devastated the south
Queensland and northern New
South Wales coasts. Not even
the seaward-side bulwark of
Stradbroke Island could ward off
the fury of the winds and rain
that slashed and levelled fruit
and plants, causing a total loss of
crop.
“But such is our island clan,”
says one of the growers, English-
born ex - cavalryman Frank
Horton, “that we’ll all come out
on top again, and I think there
are great possibilities for this
small island,”
Owing to its islanders’ and its
own vast recuperative powers,
Macleay has sufficiently
recovered from the shock to be
able once more to present its
normal picture of a place where
the rest of the world goes by.
The most recent rate-and-
registration-payer to stake a
claim in this Utopia is a friend
of the writer, Mr. Cyril Horton
(no relation to islander Frank),
another motor-industry man,
who has bought a 10-acre block
nexTdoor to Captain Simmonds,
facing the quietude and beauty
of Preulpa Bay, one of the
island’s charming inlets.
Such is the magnetism of
Macleay; no sooner experienced
than the casual visitor wants to
back away from what poet
Matthew Arnold termed “this
strange disease of modern life,
with its sick hurry, its divided
aims”—and decamp to the tiny
Utopia off the Australian coast.


m
A.C.A. policies
k
ms
For
* LIFE
* FIRE
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER S
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
* MOTOR
VEHICLES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street, Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
SPORTING NOTIONS
Weight-for-age and handicap
form can be deceptive. A few
of the best handicappers in this
country were of little account
when they were raced under the
w.-f.-a. scale, and quite a number
that have succeeded at w.-f.-a.
ran much below that form in
important handicaps. So it
might be wise for punters who
contemplate taking doubles with
New Zealander Rising Fast not
to be decided by his win from
Euphrates and Earldom in the
w.-f.-a. Barnes Stakes (H mile)
at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, last
Saturday.
Rising Fast and the runner-up
turned the Barnes Stakes into a
match-race. They went head-
and-head for several furlongs,
but the New Zealander won
easily, in 2min. Sisec., fastest
time recorded for a w.-f.-a.
contest over that distance in
Brisbane.
• • •
Rising Fast’s immediate
future has yet to be determined,
but Sydney racegoers are looking
forward to seeing him in action
before the Metropolitan. He has
8.8 in that race, 8.10 in the
Caulfield Cup and 8.9 in the Mel-
bourne Cup. It should be noted
that, apart from Euphrates, his
opposition in Brisbane was only
so-so.
• • • •
Leading Sydney jockey Neville
Sellwood started the new season
well on Saturday, with three
Canterbury winners. One was
Regoli in the Frederick Clissold
Handicap, Sellwood’s third
success in the event, his previous
wins being on Osborne in 1952,
and on Persian Prince in 1948.
W. Cook and A. Ward have
both won the race twice. Regoli
is partial to Canterbury ; he has
won six sprints there.
• • • •’
Sobriquet, winner of the Can-
terbury Handicap at long odds,
was ridden by L. Coles, who was
given the mount after a brief
track-acquaintance with the
gelding, and handled the visitor
in fine style, coming from the
rear of the field for a brilliant
success. Sobriquet revelled in
the soft going.
When the first of the progeny
of the imported sire Trans-
atlantic were paraded at the
Randwick yearling auction in the
autumn of last year there was
keen bidding for the one now
racing as Lindbergh, and a bid
of 800gns. secured the colt for
a patron of Harry Darwon's
Randwick stable. Lindbergh has
proved a bargain-purchase. He
was followed into the sale-ring
by a colt by the same sire from
Lady Tarwyn, and this colt,
racing as Transwyn, won his
first race on Saturday at Canter-
bury, the Three-year-old Maiden
for colts and geldings. Judging
by the impressive manner in
which he trounced opponents,
after a tardy start, he could prove
another worthy son of Trans-
atlantic, who is closely related
to Pensive, a winner of the
Kentucky (U.S.) Derby. Lady
Tarwyn, dam of Transwyn, is
related to Radical, winner of 14
races on Sydney tracks a few
seasons ago, several of the wins
being at Canterbury.
Showing improvement on
earlier form. New Zealand-bred
three-year-old Eight Bells beat
all except Transwyn, and he
might soon be a winner. He has
a bit of catching up to do, be-
cause as a yearling he cost 2200
gns. Product of the Alton Lodge
stud, Te Kauwhata, Eight Bells
is by Mid-day Sun (imp.) from
Cairness by Tideacre (imp.)
from My Own by Lord Quex
(imp.). His half-brother, Gold
Script, won 12 races in New
Zealand and £12,860 in stakes.
He is similarly related to Taressa,
winner of Tattersall’s Club Cup
at Randwick. Frank Dalton, who
trains Eight Bells, also prepared
Taressa.
• • • •
Trained at Rosebery, Wedding
Waltz improved on prior form
to win the fillies’ Three-year-old
Canterbury Park Maiden. One
of Les O’Rourke’s team, she is
bred on staying lines on both
sides of her pedigree. Her sire,
Agincourt (imp.), is a son of
Bosworth, a winner of the Ascot
Gold Cup (2j miles), and is a
half-brother to The Buzzard
(imp.), who got many stayers in
this country. On the dam’s side.
Wedding Waltz traces back to
Trenton, an Australian stayer of
note in earlier Turf history.
Wedding Guest, dam of the win-
ning filly, is by Marconigram
(imp.) from Chief Bridesmaid by
El Cacique.
* • • •
The Australian Hurdle, run at
Caulfield, has been programmed
upwards of 60 years, but its
winners in recent years, apart
from Latani (12.1) in 1948, have
lacked the class of former cham-
pions, such as Pooley Bridge
(12.5), Mosstrooper (11.12),
Isambard (11.9) and Green Cape
(11.2). In 1897 the race was
staged at four miles, and its
winner. His Grace, took Bmin.
7£sec. to complete the course,
For 26 years after that the dis-
tance was 3j miles less 92yds.,
but nine years ago the V.A.T.C.
reduced the distance to the pre-
sent 2 miles 5 furlongs and
65yds.
Last Saturday’s winner of the
Australian Hurdle, Sidlaw, was
an 8-to-l chance. He won from
Malthus and By The Way. Hot
favorite Storytime, winner at his
prior five starts over hurdles, ran
his last race —he crashed at a
hurdle near the finish and broke
his neck. He carried topweight,
10.13, and was beaten before he
crashed. Sidlaw had finished
third in the G. N. Hurdle at
Flemington, so his backers had
something to go on.
• . • • *1
Azarole, second at two of her
previous three starts, broke the
unlucky run with a win in the
Caulfield Elsternwick Stakes for
three-year-old fillies. Medium of
heavy support, she won by a
head from Sashay and Honey-
flow. Trained by T. Lewis, the
filly is by imported Neapolitan,
brilliant winner of five races in
England, and son of unbeaten
Nearco. Aiming High, dam of
Azarole, is a sister to Sirius, a
winner of the Melbourne Cup,
and to East End (V.R.C. Oaks),
while she also is closely related
to Aldershot. Other winners in
the family have included Pibroch
and Orteli (V.R.C. Newmarket).
Aiming High is by Enfield (imp.)
from North Star by Great Star
(imp.).
Commenting on the success of
the Queen’s representative,
Aureole, in the £23,300 King
George VI and Queen Elizabeth
Stakes, a leading English Turf
writer said: “Royal patronage
of the Turf has become tradi-
tional. The Queen’s genuine love
of the sport is a welcome
reminder that racing can be a
pleasure and a pastime, and not
merely, as some owners imagine,
just another means of making
money.”
Aureole should be an acquisi-
tion to the British bloodstock
industry when he is retired to the
Royal Stud, where he was bred.
He probably is the best son of
noted sire Hyperion, who was
20 years old when he sired
Aureole. The latter’s dam is by
Donatello 11, who also sired the
dam of Pinza, winner of the
same race a year earlier.
Aureole is now the highest
stakemoney winner to carry the
Royal colors. He has won
upwards of £40,000.
The A.J.C. and other leading
clubs do their best to foster
stayers, but Australia isn’t strong
in these, and fields in races at
two miles, bar the Cups, gener-
ally are small and lack top-class.
In England the position is dif-
ferent. Many Australians
attended the Royal Ascot fixture,
and a copy of the first day’s pro-
gramme sent to The Bulletin
shows that 25 horses accepted for
the £2886 Ascot Stakes, 2\
miles. In another 2-miles race on
the same afternoon’s six-event
race-card, 25 also accepted, the
topweight carrying lOst. In the
Ascot Stakes highest acceptor
had 8.11, and to comply with
the conditions all weights were
increased 31b., with No. 1 in the
book on 9st. In handicap events
at Sydney meetings weights are
increased to 8.12 if the highest-
weighted horse has less than that
poundage when acceptances are
declared. Royal Ascot’s shilling
racebook had quite a dis-
tinguished list of stewards; the
Duke of Norfolk; Viscount
Allendale ; the Early of Derby ;
and the Earl of Sefton ; while
Major J. C. Bulteel, D. 5.0.,
M.C., is clerk of the course.
♦ * *
At the 1950 Empire Games at
Auckland, Australia won 34
gold-medals. At this year’s
Games at Vancouver, just con-
cluded, Australia had 20 firsts.
The Australian team included a
number of world and Empire
champions, but the opposition
“The boys are out to win today.”
was much stiffer in many events.
Britain won 21 gold-medals and
the “unofficial points-score”
from Australia, with Canada
third. Many new Games records
were made.
• • « •
The highlight of the whole
proceedings was undoubtedly
that race on the last day' which
turned-out in reality to be a
“miracle” mile. The two “four-
minute” milers, Bannister and
Tandy, both broke that time
again, with Bannister first past
the post. Tandy set the pace,
but Bannister won with his
famous finishing-burst. These
two proved themselves in a class
of their own ; none of the other
runners were in it. The English-
man took 3min. 58.85ec., Tandy
3.59.6. Tandy, of course, still
holds the world’s record (3min.
58sec.).
• • • •
Australia, winning seven of
the 13 swimming-races, has in
Jon Henricks and Torraine
Crapp two really exceptional
swimmers. Henricks won three
gold-medals, one the 110 yds.
freestyle (in Games record-time,
56.65ec), the other two in re-
lays. In his leg of the medley
relay he clocked 55.55ec., des-
cribed as “the fastest swim in
history”; it can’t be recognised
as a world’s-record, having
been swum in a relay, (Henricks
holds world’s best time for
110yds., 56.25ec.)
• • • •
The 15-year-old Torraine
Crapp won two gold-medals, the
110yds. and 440yds. freestyle,
setting new Empire times in
both, and proving herself far
ahead of her opponents. (Just
before leaving for Vancouver
she had set new world’s-record
times in the 440yds. and 880yds.)
• • • •
Besides Henricks, Marjorie
Jackson was the only other Aus-
tralian to win three gold-medals:
the 100yds. and 220yds., and the
women’s relay. In the 220yds.
she equalled her own world-
record, 24sec., the first world-
record set at the Games. Mar-
jorie had won the 100yds, and
220yds. at the 1950 Games, too ;
she is thus one of three who
have won the same two events at
two succeeding Empire Games.
(Australian swimmer Noel Ryan
is one of the other two.)
A couple of other items: 18-
year-old David Tean, who won
the 440yds. hurdles, became the
first Tasmanian ever to win an
international athletic event; and
the first Australian to win this
race at an Empire Games; and
17-year-old cyclist Dick Ploog,
who tied for first place in the
1000 metres time-trial, is the
youngest cyclist ever to win a
Games gold-medal,
♦ * •
“K.R.”: On Saturday N.Z.
beat Australia in two different
11-aside games, hockey and
Soccer. In Sydney N.Z.’s
hockeysters regained the Mann-
ing Memorial Cup by winning
the “Test,” 3-1. In Adelaide at
Soccer N.Z. defeated an Aus-
tralian XI (in which all States
but Queensland were repre-
sented) by the same tally. Aus-
tralia’s hockey team was skip-
pered by Westralian lan Dick,
who has also played cricket for
his State: he is perhaps the first
Westralian ever to lead a
national side in any sport.
♦ ♦ ♦
There was stunned silence
round Johnston-street and there-
abouts on Saturday night, as the
grim news spread that Colling-
wood, after leading all through,
was no longer on top of the
V.F.T. table. Geelong had
vaulted over Footscray and
’Wood, and the way the Cats
are playing now it’ll take an
extra-good team to beat ’em.
Tast week the Cats swamped
St. Kilda (18.13-7.17), while the
Magpies went down to Essen-
don, which still has a chance
(10.11-6.16). Carlton, not alto-
gether unexpectedly, beat ’Scray
(8.12-6.7), and Richmond, back
once again in “the four,”
knocked Sowth (12.15-6.16).
Over the border from ’Wood, in
Fitzroy, there was also a
stunned sort of reaction as it
became known that the Maroons
had brought home their third
scalp, Melbourne’s this time
(8.11-6.12).
* ♦ ♦
Duntroon beat G.P.S. 28-11
in the traditional Rugby Union
match in Sydney.
• • • •
In Sydney Rugby Union club
matches Manly beat Gordon
10-3 in a game with curious side-
lights concerning the relations
of players and referee. This
North Shore club has been under
a cloud because of allega-
tions of unbecoming language
by some of its players. These
high diplomatic matters aside,
Gordon did well to hold Manly
to two converted tries, lacking
hooker Testoni and half Moffatt.
The latter was injured in the first
10 minutes and had to be re-
placed. University beat Eastern
Suburbs 14-12; St. George beat
Randwick 11-5; Eastwood beat
Parramatta 18-0 and Drum-
moyne beat Northern Suburbs
23-11.


Called the "little Wonder"
Cricket's John Wisden
By MID-ON
n LL cricket-followers know Wisden,
the Cricketers’ Bible; but pro-
( I bably few know anything about
John Wisden, the “Little Won-
der,” the man who helped organise the
first overseas tour of English cricketers
and who first brought out cricket’s
Almanack. Only one of his feats rates
a mention in present-day Wisden.
Bom at Brighton (Eng.) in 1826,
Wisden was picked for Sussex while still
shoit of his 19th birthday, and from the
following year, 1846, till 1863, he played
regularly for Sussex, at that time one of
the strongest cricketing counties.
He being a fast-bowler, the most
remarkable thing about him was that
he was only sft, 4in. high and (at the
beginning of his career, anyway) weighed
only 7st. H. S. Altham, in his History of
Cricket (1926), said he was “easily the
smallest fast-bowler who ever made
history.”
The “Little Wonder” had plenty of
extra-good performances with the ball;
seven times for his county he took eight
wickets in an innings. Against Kent in
1852 he took 7 for 6. In 1851, in a
season of 43 matches, he captured 455
wickets. And there are 10 recorded in-
stances of his bowling unchanged through
both completed innings of his opponents.
His greatest bowling triumph (the one
still recorded in Wisden ) was when,
playing for North of England against
South in the annual match of 1850, he
took all 10 wickets in a South second-
innings. And he clean-bowled every one
of ’em! (Wisden apparently played for
both North and South; his eligibility
for North rested on his part-prOprietor-
ship, with George Parr, captain of the
second English team to come to Aus-
tralia, of Leamington cricket-ground,
Warwickshire.)
Wickets in those days favored the
bowler; but Wisden undoubtedly had
class. He had a very smooth action and
great stamina; it was mainly per preci-
sion and steadiness that he took wicket
after wicket over the years, though he
did have real pace, too —in 1851, in
knocking the stumps, he sent a bail fly-
ing 50yds. (a writer earlier the same year
had given 40yds. as the record). Incident-
ally, runs hit off bowlers were not assessed
in those days; Wisden’s 10 wickets
against South, beforementioned, cost
“about 30 runs.”
As a batsman he was only fair-aver-
age, but could keep a straight bat. At
The Oval he once figured in a last-
wicket partnership worth over 100, and, in
a day when centuries were rare, he had
two to his credit, including 148 against
Yorkshire.
At this time there was a team called
the All-England XI, composed of the
leading professionals; it had been
formed in 1846 and was led by William
Clarke, who had opened Trent Bridge
ground in 1838, a great slow-bowler and
a crusty character known as the “old
fox.” Sometimes he bowled underhand ;
he was accused of other underhand
practices, such as snooping around while
his future opponents were at the nets to
try to spot their weaknesses (no longer
regarded as shady; e.g., Alec Bedser
watching the Australians’ early
practices last year, by courtesy
of the Australians themselves.)
Wisden became a regular mem-
ber of this All-England side,
which toured round playing
teams of anything up to 22
players, and did a lot towards spreading
the game.
The All-Englanders weren’t always
too happy together. Clarke, besides, it
was said, being “close,” was too dicta-
torial: to Wisden or whoever else was
to open the bowling he’d say “I’ll have
this end; you can have which you like.”
So Wisden and one or two others
packed up and formed a rival United
England XL There was some ill-feeling
between the two teams; but, when
Clarke died in the middle 1850’s, George
Parr, Wisden’s old business-partner, took
over the All-England captaincy, and he
and Wisden got together to organise the
first overseas tour by English cricketers
—to the U.S.A. and Canada, in 1859.
There were 12 of these pioneers, of
whom only three (one was Wisden)
would not be in Australia in the next
few years with either the first or second
English team-
In America they won all their matches,
despite the handicaps of icy-cold
weather, when they played in overcoats
and gloves, and of sumptuous banquets,
to which they sat down in the intervals
of play.
An injury kept Wisden out of action
the year the first team for Australia was
chosen. He played his last game in
August, 1863.
Wisden had opened his sports-shop in
1855; but he had previous interests,
such as the Leamington ground. Tradi-
Tankards for Lord’s
In a note accompanying this drawing
(from a photograph), the sender. Eve
Moseley, describing herself as “just an
amateur potter,” says she had wished to
put Father Time weathervane at Lord’s on
a beer-mug, had written to the M.C.C. sec-
retary, and had received the photo, by
return mail, with the intimation that they
would like one of the beer-mugs to put in
their museum. “At last;” adds the writer,
“I managed to fire one I felt was good
enough to send to England.” About the
same time she made another, based on a
cartoon of a sad-looking Kangaroo with
a bottle labelled “Ashes” in its pouch, and
a very jubilant Lion stretching a paw out and
demanding that it be handed over. “When,”
the writer further states, “Mr. Menzies, our
Prime Minister, saw it, he urged me to send
them both and inform Mr. Aird that he
personally had made this request.” This
was done, and, for the M.C.C., Mr. Aird
wrote thanking the potter and describing
the beermugs as “a most attractive memento
of Test cricket between England and Aus-
tralia."
tion in the firm of John Wisden and Co.
puts 1850 as Wisden’s start in business
(most of the co.’s records were destroyed
in an air-raid in 1944). So, in commem-
oration of the 1850 date, there was pub-
lished in 1950 A Wisden Century (1850-
1950), by John Hadfield, which supplies
most of the facts in this article.
The year after Wisden retired “all
respectable Booksellers in the United
Kingdom” were advised of the publi-
cation of The Cricketer’s Almanack, for
the Year 1864, being Bissextile or Leap
year, and the 28th of the Reign of Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, containing The
Laws of Cricket, as Revised by the
Marylebone Club; the First Appearance at
Lord’s and Number of Runs obtained by
Many Cricketing Celebrities; Scores of 100
and Upwards, from 1850 to 1863; Extra-
ordinary Matches; All the Matches played
between the Gentlemen and Players,
and the All-England and United Elevens,
with full and accurate scores taken from
authentic sources; together with the
Dates of the University Rowing Matches,
the Winners of the Derby, Oaks and St.
Leger; Rules of Bowls, Quoits, and
Knur and Spell, and other Interesting
Information. The work with this long
handle to it was published by John
Wisden and Co. at their Cricketing and
British Sports Warehouse at Haymarket;
price, one shilling.
And so appeared for the first time
what is now recognised as the Cricketers’
Bible, a work of reference and com-
mentary which has been published each
year without fail since 1864. The first
issue had 112 pages, compared with 1015
last year. Incidentally, among the “other
interesting information” in that first issue
were lists of important dates in the his-
tory of China and of battles in the Wars
of the Roses.
Wisden also wrote, in 1866, a volume,
dedicated to E, M. Grace, one of W.G.’s
cricketing brothers. Cricket and How to
Play It: with the Rules of the Maryle-
bone Club. It contained some sound
advice, and was written with an eye to
business: “As to where to purchase
bats, balls, etc., I hardly like to give an
opinion, but I may perhaps be allowed
to say that at my shop you may purchase
all of the very best of cricketing imple-
ments, at the cheapest rates consistent
with first-rate quality.”
John Wisden died on April 5, 1884.
The business he founded, which was
incorporated as a limited company in
1914, is still going strong. It is mainly
now a manufacturer, maker of all sorts
of sporting goods.
Wisden itself, which has justified an
1877 boast that it had even then “out-
stripped all its rivals,” is not now pub-
lished by Wisden’s. In 1938 it was taken
over by Whitaker’s, of that Almanack,
but its present publisher is Sporting
Handbooks, Ltd., in which Wisden’s and
Whitaker’s both have an interest.
But, whoever takes over its publication,
it’s certain that it will always carry the
name of its founder.
CLEARING THINGS UP
A BOUT this time of the year my foot-
steps invariably gravitate towards the
Taxation Department, There are, I find,
always a number of points in the filling-in
of my return which demand elucidation.
Especially do those items covering in-
come received and deductions claimed
confuse me. The rest I can master with
ease.
The clerk who came to the Enquiry
counter looked at me inquiringly. I
produced my Form S, which I had been
working on the previous night, and
opened it at page 2. He took one glance
at it, fell back, and said: “You’ve
wandered into the wrong outfit, brother.
The pak-a-pu joints are down in Camp-
bell-street.”
“Reserve your levity for your next
departmental revue,” I replied coldly,
“and let us get to our muttons. I seek
advice about Item 3 here—‘Use of pre-
mises or quarters allowed to me by
employer.’ ”
“Well, what’s obscure about it?” he
wondered. “Anyone could understand
it!”
“Did I say you couldn’t?” I asked.
“But what has the £ sign got to do with
it?”
“For the value of it!” he exploded.
“Look,” I said evenly. “My boss has
a seaside shack and he let me use it for
one weekend. Doesn’t that constitute
‘Use of premises allowed to me by my
employer’?”
“Well, what if it does? Did he sock
you rent for it?”
“Certainly not. He’s not that lousy.”
“Well, then, ignore it.”
“That’s fine advice, coming from a
taxation officer,” I protested.
“But it had no value!” he shouted.
“That’s incorrect,” I said. “I caught
several yellowtail and a couple of bony
bream. In short, I made a profit, diffi-
cult though it may be to assess it, from
the occupation of his premises. Yet I
am not allowed to put it in and thus give
an honest accounting of my income. If
there is no use for the section, why was
it put in?”.
“Look,” he gritted. “Is that all you
wanted to know?”
“Certainly not! ” I said, “Take Item 5
in the income-received section. Do I
have to disclose every tip or other gratu-
ity received during the year?”
“Undoubtedly.”
“Yet,” I complained, “you allow only
one line of no more than five inches.
There isn’t space to properly itemise
them?”
“You don’t have to,” he replied.
“What are you, a waiter?”
“Only when my wife is late for an
appointment in town,” I explained.
“Look —all you have to do is group it
all together, whatever you got, in one
amount. You can append a list”
“Amount!” I broke in. “The number,
you mean.”
“No, the amount!” he shouted.
“Well, I never knew before that a
plurality of advice about equine form
was referred to as an amount,” I re-
marked. “We live and learn. Not that
I ever benefited from the tips, mind you.
In fact, they cost me a packet, I sup-
pose I can claim them as a deduction
under medical expenses?”
He looked around despairingly for an
escape-route, but I was too quick with
the next.
“Another thing,” I went on, “here in
Item 8: Interest from Savings Bank.
There is no provision for shillings and
pence.”
“That’s right,” he snarled. “Ignore
them.”
“Yet another slapdash method so
typical of a bureaucratic-ridden depart-
ment,” I remarked. “That means I am
put in the invidious position of having
to suppress portion of my income. Yet
if your investigation staff were to un-
cover it I would be prosecuted for tax-
evasion ! ”
“Listen,” he said wearily, “you put it
to the nearest quid.”
“But that’s iniquitous!” I protested.
“I received two-and-eightpence bank in-
terest for the year. The nearest quid is
£l. If I put that down I shall be taxed
four-and-tuppence on two-and-eightpence.
Do you call that justice?”
He began to bite his fingernails furi-
ously, a habit I detest.
“When you’ve finished masticating
portion of your rind,” I said icily, “we’ll
get on with the business which brought
me here. Now Item 20 in the deductions-
column: Gifts to Public Institutions. I
can claim £120.”
“That’s all right,” he said, “provided
you can produce the receipts.”
“Now, have some sense,” I answered.
“Does one keep one’s old betting-,
tickets?”
“This only refers to donations made
to benevolent institutions,” he shouted.
“Well,” I asked logically, “what do
our bookies regard themselves as but that,
what with the fabulously generous odds
they offer, and which financially cripple
them each Saturday?”
“I tell you you can’t claim for betting
losses unless punting is yOur business.”
“Well, what I win or lose on the mokes
is certainly nobody else’s!” I replied
spiritedly. “But why can’t I claim it
under medical expenses? My doctor
advised me to take up some sport, so I
selected punting as being the least strenu-
ous. Punting, virtually, is to me a medi-
cine, and it should be as tax-free as if I
purchased nux vomica or castor-oil.
“One other thing,” I went on, “and
I’ll have finished. I wished to be scrupu-
lously honest in my return, so I have
included the sum of two guineas in
income from dental earnings.”
“You’re not a dentist, are you?” he
asked.
“No,” I replied, “I’m a milliner’s
laborer —I bend all the buckram used in
toques. Strenuous and exacting work, I
assure you.”
“Well, how the hell could you have
two guineas of dental earnings?” he asked
savagely.
“Quite simply,” I replied calmly. “I
saved that by using the brick-and-string
method to extract a couple of loose teeth
of my small son Peregrine. Isn’t money
saved money earned?”
He grabbed a fistful of hair and
croaked, “Hand us a blunt instrument,
somebody! ”
But I never did get any real satisfaction
from their allegedly trained staff.
Bo.


■deal for
YOUR KITCHEN, TOO
Give your Kitchen a "new home" look replace
your outworn, hard-to-clean unit now, with a
polished Wunderlich Stainless Steel Sink. You'll
be delighted with the work it will save you. There's
a size to suit your Kitchen—single or double bowl.
Ask your local hardware merchant, 'phone MX 2411
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Baptist Street,
Redfern, for illustrated folder and prices.
STAINLESS STEEL SINKS
THE PERFECT SINK AND DRAINER
m
The name is
(DColuiras
K-.v
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICAN DIFFERENCES
/COMMENTING on some
Anglo-American differences,
London “Economist” notes that
“Mr. Eden and Mr, Dulles are
very different people. Mr. Eden is
not an appeaser ; but he is prone
to believe that any problem can
be solved by skilled and patient
negotiation. Mr. Dulles is not
a warmonger; but he rather
fancies himself as a Gordian
knot-cutter. Both men have that
form of vanity that is apt to
take disagreement as an affront.”
That might have been said
as fairly of the two countries as
of their Foreign Secretaries, and
a good deal of space in over-
seas papers has lately gone to
tracing the different drifts in
American and European feeling
concerning world affairs.
One American opinion (that
of David Lawrence in “U.S.
News and World Report”) is
that “the European mind —not
just the Soviet mind —functions
differently from that of the
U.S.”:
“Americans are a relatively
new nation, successful in indus-
trial achievements and feeling
the pulse of their progress every
minute. They want things to
happen quickly.
“Europe, on the other hand,
has seen the ups and downs of
international policy through the
centuries and is a little more
complacent and less impulsive.
Therefore, time makes a differ-
ence. Americans, for their part,
would like to settle the whole
international situation in a
month or two —or in a year
perhaps. The perspective in
Europe is more likely to be 10
years, 20 years or 50 years.
“Perhaps the most disconcert-
ing impression derived from a
recent visit to Europe was the
confirmation of what I found
two years ago the weak-
ness of both Britain and
France morale-wise and on the
economic side. This has a
decided bearing on what the
American attitude should be
towards Europe.
“Sometimes people in America
say: ‘Well, we paid a lot of
money to keep those countries
on our side, and they haven’t
stayed bought.’
“This is an affront to the
peoples of Europe. For the situa-
tion there in respect to the will
to fight hasn’t much to do with
dollars.. The dollars America
has sent abroad were important.
They are still important. They
have to do with the complex
economic mechanism which has
to put each country on a sound
basis so that there will be em-
ployment—any kind of equili-
brium at all. But the basic
factors that give a nation its
spirit are psychological and not
merely economic, though they
both contribute to the mood of
the times.
“We in America little realise
London “Daily Mail"
THE FRIGHTENED LADY
that World War I took out of
France and Great Britain the
flower of the manhood of their
respective countries. We little
realise, also, that World War II
took away much of the replace-
ment and that the generations
which are there today—out-
wardly trying to make believe
they are as strong as before—
actually have a lessened morale
which is noticeable. The glories
of a great past are swept aside
in a tidal wave of cynicism that
is perhaps a characteristic effect
of the bombings suffered in the
last war.”
It is worth noting here, of
course, that a similar “tidal
wave of cynicism” and disillu-
sion manifested itself in Britain
after World War I and occupied
the attentions of writers like
Philip Gibbs and others. What-
ever effect it may have had, how-
ever, it did not prevent the
essential British qualities from
making their survival plain
enough to the whole world in
World War 11.
That aspect, however, is not
brought into Lawrence’s argu-
ment, and he concludes that “the
truth is there are no first-class
Powers in the world today except
the United States and Soviet
Russia.”
To take, on the other hand,
a British impression, London
“Time and Tide” considers “the
most puzzling thing to a Euro-
pean is the .apparent lack of
realism in the American posi-
tion” :
“The European argues that the
Peking Government is the true
voice of China, whether we like
it or not, so we may as well pull
our heads out of the sand and
face the fact. After all, he adds,
Russia is Communist, and so
are all the other U.N. members
from behind the Iron Curtain,
and no one has suggested
throwing them out. So what’s
all the fuss about China?
“But the logic of all this cuts
no ice with the Americans. To
understand their point of view
it is necessary to be clear on
several points. The first is the
Korean war.
“Korea, to the Americans,
was a crusade. It was the first
time in which a group of nations
—led by the United States —had
fought a war purely to defend a
principle. At the same time
America paid a heavy price in
blood. She suffered over 140,000
casualties,' which is nearly half
as many as she suffered in
World War I and about 14 per
cent, of her total loss in World
War 11.
“The enemy. Communist
China, has consistently refused
to negotiate in good faith on a
Korean peace. How, then, say
the Americans, can she possibly
be regarded as a ‘peace-loving
State,’ which, after all, is one
of the Charter stipulations gov-
erning the admission of a mem-
ber. Indeed, to admit Com-
munist China would appear to
endorse her record and —more
practically—result in serious loss
of face for the Western nations
in the Far East.”
At this point the “New York
Times” might be allowed to
interject with the American view
that “the best that could be
hoped for [from Red China’s
admission to U.N.] would be
Peking’s promise not to do
again what Peking had no busi-
ness doing in the first place, and
for which no solitary sign of
repentance has been shown. To
obtain this promise the United
Nations would be obliged to
abandon any claim to have
acted righteously from the be-
ginning. Not only would the
concept of collective security
have to be thrown away. With
it would have to go the con-
cept of collective moral decency.
The United Nations cannot
afford that price for Communist
promises of good behavior, such
as they are.”
“Time and Tide” again:
“Another thing to remember
is that the Americans are quite
unused to the tight-rope politics
which European nations have
been practising for centuries. To
them such devious stratagems
as ‘the balance of power’ seem
unethical—and besides they
haven’t the patience.
“The American feels, too,
that on those occasions when
he has tried to play it the Euro-
pean way and bury a few prin-
ciples, he has lost out badly—
notably at Yalta and Potsdam.
And he likes to point out that
Europe didn’t make out so well
at Munich, either.
“All this may sound lament-
ably impracticable, but it seems
less so when one appreciates the
American’s innate sense of in-
vincibility. To any celestial by-
stander, watching the develop-
ment of American might over
the past century, the sight would
be pretty impressive. To an
American it is infinitely more so.
Fed on a steady diet of his
country’s achievements, the
American believes there is noth-
ing the United States cannot
accomplish. Until Korea the
Americans had never fought a
war they didn’t win decisively—
and they feel they could have
won in Korea if their hands
had not been tied behind them.”
As for that “diet of his coun-
try’s achievements,” there is a
pretty fair sample of it in a
commentary by W. Averell
Harriman in the U.S. quarterly
“Foreign Affairs”:
“It has been seven years,”
writes Harriman, “since the
United States embarked upon a
positive and active course of
world leadership in time of peace
with the object of preventing
another world war. The date
that took place was March 12,
1947, when President Truman
asked Congress to appropriate
400 million dollars for economic
and military and advisory aid to
Greece and Turkey and pro-
claimed what became known as
the Truman Doctrine; namely,
that it is the policy of the United
States to support free peoples
who resist attempted subjugation
by armed minorities or outside
pressures.
“One great American initia-
tive followed another: the Mar-
shall Plan, the Point IV Pro-
gramme, the Berlin airlift, the
Military Defence Assistance
Programme, the North Atlantic
Alliance and the unified Nato
military build-up in Europe, the
Pacific Pacts and the successful
resistance in Korea. There was
little choice or conflict between
short-range and long-range
policies, for alliances, military
strength and economic power
had to be built up at once
against both imminent and later
dangers.
“Not since the fall of Rome
has one country so dominated
the economy of the civilised
world as does the United States
today, and whereas Rome’s
dominion rested upon imperial
control, ours rests upon sheer
size. Ours is the master-wheel
of the world economic machine
that determines the speed at
which all others run. An ex-
tended decline in our economic
activity can cause unemploy-
ment, financial crisis and politi-
cal instability throughout the
world. Economic expansion in
the United States can provide
a basis for world economic
expansion.
“With 10 per cent, of the free
world’s population, the United
States accounts for more than
half its combined gross national
product. A sharp reduction in
rubber-buying in this country
can cause virtual economic col-
lapse in Malaya; a speculative
spurt in wool-buying here can
cause serious inflation in Aus-
tralia. Latin America’s well-
being and political stability de-
pend to a high degree upon a
steady flow of raw materials to
the United States at reasonable
prices.
“The world has prospered
only when there has been an
adequate flow of capital for the
development of resources and
the expansion of production. The
problem is peculiarly our
[America’s] responsibility be-
cause of the vastness of our
accumulations of capital and the
paucity of surplus capital in
Europe following the devastation
of two world wars.”
Communist Air Attacks
Those who accused Uncle Sam
of being a little trigger-happy
when U.S. Navy aircraft very
smartly knocked down a couple
of Chinese Communist fighters
which attacked them over the
South China Sea may have over-
looked the Communist tally of
attacks on Allied aircraft. For
the record, here is the score since
1948:
April 5, 1948. —British airliner
crashes in West Berlin, killing
14, after colliding with Soviet
Yak fighter which buzzed the
liner.
April 8, 1950. Unarmed
American Navy patrol plane, on
routine flight from Wiesbaden,
Germany, to Copenhagen, dis-
appears over Baltic Sea with
crew of 10. U.S. charges it was
shot down by Soviet planes over
open sea.
November 5, 1951. U.S.
Navy weatherrplane shot down
by Soviet fighters over Sea of
Japan, in international waters
south-east of Vladivostok. Crew
of 10 lost.
April 29, 1952, —Two Soviet
jets attack French airliner in
international air-corridor from
Frankfurt to Berlin. Two persons
injured.
June 13, 1952. Swedish
patrol plane disappears over
Baltic with crew of eight.
Swedish Government places
responsibility on Russia.
June 16, 1952. —Soviet jets
shoot down Swedish rescue plane
seeking survivors from patrol
craft. Seven crew members taken
from sea by passing German
freighter. Two were wounded.
October 7, 1952. —U.S. Air
Force patrol plane shot down
by two Soviet fighters over open
waters near Japanese island of
Hokkaido. Eight men killed.
March 10, 1953. —Two jets
from Czechoslovakia attack two
U.S. Air Force planes near
Regensburg, 17 miles inside West
Germany. One U.S. plane shot
down, but pilot parachutes to
safety.
March 12, 1953. —Two Soviet
jets shoot down British transport
plane over West Germany.
Seven lives lost.


WERE THE
FRENCH BETRAYED IN
INDO-CHINA?
Was the French defeat in Indo-China
“inevitable,” or was it the result of
treacherous policies which can be traced
back to an American State Department
still influenced by associates of Alger
Hiss and other secret Communists?
These and other aspects of the Com-
munist victory in Indo-China are dealt
with in the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY.
Month by month THE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY brings to its readers up-to-date
reliable reports and comment from all
over the world on the growing con-
spiracy against Christian Civilisation.
This SURVEY is essential for all re-
sponsible members of the community; it
provides them with vital information not
readily available elsewhere. A new
subscriber in England writes that THE
INTELLIGENCE SURVEY “is the best of
its type I have yet seen.”
Single Issue of INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual Subscription £2/2/- post free
Order from —
The Victorian League of Rights
( non-party; non-sectarian),
543 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As at 30lh June, 1954
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
El ABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each
£3,000,000 0 0
7,000,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
of
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units
£lO per unit
6,105,868 Ordinary Stock Units of 10s.
per unit
£2,117,350 0 0
3,052,934 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of
the Bank)
Pinal Dividends proposed payable,
August, 1954
Balance of Profit and Loss Account ..
£5,170,284 0 0
3,000,000 0 0
189,467
192,159
Total Stockholders’ Funds
£8,551,910 9 0
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
Provisions for Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to Other Banks
Amount due to Subsidiary Company
185,435,597 5 7
5,102 0 0
436,189 17 11
100 0 0
Contingent liabilities (as per contra in regard to
obligations of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
£194,428,899 12 6
9,686,002 18 4
£204,114,902 10 10
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks ..
Money at Short Call in London ..
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government .. .. £12,421,502 13 5
Other Government .. .. .. 1,312,517 8 0
Local and Semi - Governmental
Authorities .. .. .. .. 116,796 0 10
£12,337,889 0
7,966,376 7
262,825 11
187,500 0
6,500,000 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stamps
13,850,816 2 3
35,648.000 0 0
15,113.497 14 2
108,192 14 1
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less
amounts written off) .
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any
time, and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only
Asset is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank) ..
£91,975,097 8 8
99,052,262 3 5
3,401,440 0 5
100 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra
£194,428,899 12 6
9,686,002 18 4
£204,114,902 10 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE TEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1954
To Expenses—Head Office, 683 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees £4,500/0/0)
Income, Land and Other Taxes
Balance, .being Net Profit for the Year carried down
£4,579,669 15 0
763,860 1 0
500,221 10 0
5,843,751 6 0
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
Dividends —
Interim paid February, 1954 ..
Final, proposed payable August,
1954
£135,000 0 0
£163,377
189,467
Balance carried forward
352.844 6
192,159 4
£680,003 10 4
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Com-
missions and Other Income after deducting Interest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts
has been made)
£5,843,751 6 0
By Net Balance brought forward
Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
I, EDWARD COOK, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of
Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve
Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the
accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the
Bank are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are the Directors
of the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM SYDNEY REID,
Merchant, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour Miller, Mel-
bourne; STANLEY THOMPSON EDWARDS, Shipping Director, Mel-
bourne; COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, Solicitor, Melbourne; NORMAND
HILL, Wool Broker, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
rlrtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament
to be true, and by virtue
of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for
wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 23rd day of July,
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four.
Before me— EDWARD COOK.
H. F. CLARKE,
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES of
Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited,
do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true
and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view
of the state of the Company’s affairs, and that the Statement of Profit
and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business
of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
V. Y. KIMPTON.
COLIN F. MEARES.
Dated at Melbourne, this 23rd day of July, 1954.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
Melbourne, 23rd July, 1954.
To the Stockholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the
year ended 30th June, 1954, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of
the Company’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results
of the business of the Company for the year, according to the best of
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the
books of the Company.
The London Office Return to the 30th June, 1954, duly audited by
Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and
Liabilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers
and Accountants. . ,
I We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and
they have supplied us with all the information and explanatiohs we have
required.
We are, Ladles and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully.
E. FOOKES,
HAROLD P. GLASS.
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
July 29, 1953. U.S. Air
Force plane on routine naviga-
tional training flight shot down
by Soviet jet over Sea of Japan.
Only one member of crew of 17
survives.
June 3, 1954— Belgian trans-
port plane carrying pigs from
England to Yugoslavia fired upon
by Russian or Hungarian jet over
Yugoslav territory. Belgian radio
officer killed, pilot and mechanic
wounded. Survivors manage
emergency landing at Graz,
Austria.
July 23, 1954. —British com-
mercial airliner en route from
Bangkok to Hong Kong shot
down by Chinese Communist
fighters. Ten persons lost or
killed. Eight others picked up
from raft by American rescue
plane.
SIR WINSTON
[A Cummings view in
London “Daily Express"]
“You do look tired! Have a
few weeks off and I’ll look after
your Ministry."
“I’m ambitious —I want to make
a big political career for myself.”
South-East Asia Pact
In most of the discussions
regarding a South-East Asia
line-up against the Communists
it seems to have been assumed
that there are, really, only two
serious alternatives—a closely
knit Nato-type defence pact
(Seato), or a broad system of
general guarantees.
That assumption, London
“Economist” points out, is a
dangerous one: “There is
another horse in the race—the
Chinese proposal that the peace
of Asia should be maintained
solely by the Asian States them-
selves through ‘the assumption of
mutual obligations.’ ”
That proposal, advanced by
Chou En-lai, is much more
appealing to Asian eyes: “There
is a very real attraction, for the
most sincerely democratic Asian,
in the suggestion that his con-
tinent should at least have
complete control of his affairs,
without any interference from
the West.
“Chou’s plan is further
evidence of the skill with which
the Communists have sought to
identify their cause with file
embedded anti-Western feeling
of Asia as a whole. It implies
the eventual exclusion of all
white influence from southern
and south-eastern Asia, and
naturally from Japan and the
islands as well.
“A faint fragrance of cultural
presence would be left to mollify
France in Indo-China, and
doubtless other Western nations
would be awarded similar con-
solations, but Asian solidarity
would be mustered against any
‘intervention’ by outsiders.
“On the surface,” the
“Economist” continues, “the
Chinese do not appear to be ask-
ing their neighbors for any bind-
ing commitments to action. On
the contrary, their talk is all of
non-interference, non-aggression
and peaceful co-existence —words
which were written into their
agreement with India' about
Tibet, and which carry a
seductive echo of Gandhian
ideals. The contrast could not be
more striking between these
gentle cadences and the firm
demands for pledges of armed
action made by the champions
of a Seato pact.
“Only the most farsighted
Asian can be expected to see that,
once his continent had sealed
itself off from the rest of the
world by falling in with Chou
En-lai’s plan, it would be merely
a question of time before
‘peaceful co-existence’ came to
mean automatic acceptance of
China’s leadership, and obedient
yielding to successive Chinese
demands. For the rest, the
simple slogan ‘Asia for the
Asians’ has a hypnotic brightness,
and the concept of a ‘Mao
Doctrine’ a certain logic.
“This does not add up to an
argument against a South-East
Asia defence pact. It simply
makes it clear that a Seato pact
would not by itself suffice to
check the Communist advance in
the Far East.,
“It is this strength of the ‘Asia
for the Asians’ feeling, and the
“No stamina-never became
P.M. again after the early age
of 82."
ability of the Chinese Com-
munists to play upon it, that
represents the real challenge that
Western policy has to meet —
and if one merit can be claimed
for British diplomacy in recent
weeks, it is that it has seen the
challenge more clearly than the
Americans have done and has at
least made gestures towards
meeting it.
“This involves convincing the
Indians (and those other Asians
who think with them) that it is
necessary to draw lines, to
guarantee them and to put teeth
into the guarantees. The other
side of the medal is the need to
convince the Americans that a
common front against aggression
will be infinitely less offensive to
Asian minds than, and is needed
fully as much as, a military
alliance composed of Europeans
specifically created for defence
against China.”
the letter of their contracts.
They can accept almost every
kind of risk.
As other countries develop as
industrial Powers they turn to
Britain for insurance protection.
Actual instances of large-scale
insurance are impressive. In
Vancouver there is the insuring
of the new 16-million-dollar
Granville Bridge, Canada’s first
eight-line traffic-span, and in
Ontario the 80-million-dollar Sir
Adam Beck generating-station
above Falls,
In the Union of South Africa
there is the £2-million Wemmer-
shoek Dam, ensuring Cape
Town’s water-supplies ; in Asia
seven new jetties at Chittagong
have been insured for a total of
£2,250,000; and in Australia
insurances worth £6,250,000
sterling have been effected on
electrical-power stations and
other engineering projects.
An Invisible Export
As London “Spectator” finds,
one of Britain’s largest “invisible”
exports is insurance, the interna-
tional standing of British insur-
ance being indicated by the fact
that in 1953 about 70 per cent, of
its total general premium-income
came from abroad.
This is attributed largely to the
good reputation of British
insurers, not only for honoring
their promises, but also for
observing the spirit rather than
Wealthy U.S. Unions
Some of the bigger American
unions are moving into the busi-
ness world, and, having enough
financial muscle to make their
weight felt, are causing some-
thing of a stir among the big
corporations.
That’s a “U.S. News and
World Report” view, and, to sup-
port it, the following table sets
out the assets of the Amalga-
mated Clothing Workers, which
comes close to being the biggest
union in the U.S.:
Two banks .. .. $90,000,000
Two insurance
companies .. $108,000,000
Housing
developments .. $23,000,000
Health centres and
office buildings .. $6,000,000
Cash and bonds .. $23,000,000
Total .. .. $250,000,000
The Amalgamated Clothing
Workers was formed 40 years
ago by representatives of local
unions tossed out of the United
Garment Workers. At its be-
ginning the new union had
25,000 members and was broke ;
today it has 385,000 members,
pays its president $20,000 a year,
has lent large sums to other
unions, and has paid out mil-
lions of dollars in welfare
benefits.
The union’s two banks—in
New York and Chicago—do
general banking business, but its
insurance companies, handling
union welfare-programmes, do
“When I’ve completed this plan
I may retire to write some really
big memoirs.”
“What really worries me is if the
Deputy Prime Minister retires
before I do.”
no outside business. Benefits
paid under the various insurance
plans of the union total 47 mil-
lion dollars for the 10 years the
scheme has been operating. An
additional 24 million dollars has
been paid in retirement benefits.
Co-operative housing projects
financed by the union—three
projects in the New York area
taking in about 2500 housing
units —represent assets of about
23 million dollars.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Hotel Problem
We went into the reception-lounge to
book-in to the community hotel at Ren-
mark (S.A.). A smartly dressed steward
at the desk handed us the keys to our
rooms and directed us to the automatic
electric-lift. The lounge was beautifully
decorated and well carpeted. There were
plenty of large and comfortable leather
easy-chairs.
Opening off the lounge was the reading-
and writing-room, similarly furnished and
equipped with writing-desks. There was
a library of suitable books, and tables
with periodicals, London “Punch” among
them. The main lounge was centrally
heated and had, also, a large log-fire.
Carpets and furnishings would compare
with those of hotels anywhere in the
world. There was prompt and efficient
service from stewards.
Upstairs were large sun-balconies look-
ing out over the Murray. Corridors were
softly carpeted, with steps lit at foot-
level ; they led to bedrooms nicely
furnished in modem style. Beds were
fitted with inner-spring mattresses and
electric reading-lamps.
Promptly at seven in the morning trays
of morning-tea and thinly cut bread-and-
butter were cheerfully served by a New
Australian waitress. Bathrooms and
shower-rooms were fitted with shaving-
mirrors with electric lights over them for
each person ; there was boiling-hot water
at all times.
In the dining-room smart, uniformed
waitresses and white-coated drink-waiters
took care of a menu just about com-
parable to that of an ocean-liner. The
silverware was highly polished and table-
linen snow-white. Each table was sup-
plied with fruit, particularly citrus.
The bars —public and saloon —were
situated at the side and back of the hotel
and not obtruding on the residential
section. On the riverbank in front were
lawns and gardens maintained by the
hotel.
Now for the second picture. We went
into a cold and very dingy entrance-hall
and searched in vain for someone to book
us in. We eventually found Bung and
his missus in the one and only bar dish-
ing out beer. They were too busy to
trouble with guests until closing-time, and
told us to put our bags in any empty
room —none of the bedrooms had keys.
The lino.-covered stairs, with broken
brass-treads, led to a dark passage and
on to a room with an uncurtained window
looking out on to a fowlyard. The old-
style, high iron beds were very lumpy,
and one naked bulb hung high from the
centre of the ceiling. The lino was
well worn, with a piece of ragged drugget
beside the beds. A bare dressing-table
was marked with cigarette-bums and
circles from glasses.
The bathrooms were grubby and the
water just tepid. There was no early-
morning tea nor any hope of getting it
The dining-room was a bit fly-specked,
with soiled linen and paper table-
napkins. The menu was poor, and the
waitress’s sole distinction was a strong
aroma of cheap perfume.
The explanation of the contrast is
simple. The Renmark hotel is of the
community variety, and all profits are
ploughed back into improving the hotel
and its surroundings. That the profits
are adequate is proved by the results.
In the case of poor old Bung, he has
paid so much for the “ingoing,” and is
so crippled by a high rental on top of it,
that he has to go flat-out in the bar to
get his money back. There are no “overs”
for service or amenities, and the land-
lord is not going to spend his money on
improving or adding to the building
unless forced to do it by the Licensing
Court.
The solution would seem to be obvious,
but, with all political parties treating the
liquor question like a double-ended
death-adder, I don’t know who’s going
to do anything about it.— Ceg (Vic.).
The Koombana
“V.J.H.” asks if I’ve ever seen empty
bottles shipped in straw envelopes (B
14/7/ ’54). Obviously he’s never heard the
real story of the Koombana and her
sudden end. Here it is, bottles first:
For some time before the tragedy a
man named Leach —I think, he was a
telegraph-linesman—had been gathering
bottles around Port Hedland. He had
arranged for them to be shipped south
in the Alto, an old schooner which had
been laid-up for years and was being
refitted for the trip, but during a blow the
Alto bumped heavily against the jetty
and showed damage. The owner said
she’d still sail, and he reckoned he’d get
her to Fremantle, but Leach wouldn’t
take the risk. The Koombana was due
then, so “Leach’s fortune,” as it had
become known, was shipped as deck
cargo. And the bottles were packed in
straw envelopes.
That supplies a logical reason for that
patch of straw enevlopes, without having
to invoke a mythical Port Hedland gar-
bageman and a supernatural force which
would keep a couple of acres of straw
intact through a gale during an off-shore
voyage of 80 miles.
As for the Koombana, she was top-
heavy, and the only man who really
knew her was her regular skipper, who,
“ Don’t tell me —let me guess!”
for health reasons, had been given a spell
ashore just before the ship’s last voyage.
I'he new captain, although a good man,
didn’t have the feel of the ship. He
didn’t realise how top-heavy she was, and,
having to pump out her water-ballast to
clear the bar, he may not have realised the
urgency of getting the water back before
the blow struck. That’s supposition, but
it’s pretty sound.
At all events, she went down, suddenly,
and presumably turning-turtle. As deck
cargo, the bottles were probably dumped
in a heap at the spot, and it isn’t hard
to imagine the cases bursting and releas-
ing the straw envelopes. That may not
have been until some hours after the blow
had passed, and then they might have
taken days to disperse.
Why didn’t the finders report them?
They did. When I said that they estab-
lished the tragic spot “beyond reasonable
doubt” I meant just that. I didn’t imply
that they were able to convince official-
dom with preconceived ideas about the
tragedy.
“V.J.H.” suggests that the Koombana’s
masts should have been sticking above
the water. Does he really think that a
ship sinking in a cyclone would settle
gently and rest on her bottom?
Now, back on the road: I didn’t say
that the ship was carried by submarine
currents to the Antarctic. I suggested
that she had been moved by such cur-
rents, and I mentioned the Antarctic as
an interesting hypothesis. I still think
it’s interesting, and at least as probable as
“V.J.H.’s” claim that the Koombana lies
buried beneath sand somewhere along
the coast.
Incidentally, the Alto sailed, after the
blow, and reached Fremantle safely. She
was used there for years as a coal-hulk.
—W.J.W. (W.A.).
Teleprinter Services
The P.M.G. Department could well
continue its extension of teleprinter ser-
vices, even to some of the lesser-known
country post-offices where the traffic
could perhaps be easily handled by the
Morse-key and -sounder. It might not be
an economical policy, but there’s more
than money attaching to modern com-
munications.
“V.J.H.’s” defence of the old-fashioned
Morse-key (B. 7/7/’54) has some merit,
but to base his arguments purely on cost
puts it all in the wrong perspective.
Taking into account the odd repeats,
the necessary checks and the delays in
arranging new forms on the receiving
end, traffic by Morse-key rarely exceeds
more than 15 words per minute; the
teleprinter can go up to four times that
speed, is more accurate, and there are
rarely checks or repeats. The public
liking its messages typed has little to do
with the argument against the teleprinter.
It is typed because it is sent as received.
Naturally such highly intricate appar-
atus is prone to breakdown occasion-
ally, but when the number of words is
taken into consideration this is only a
minor point. P.M.G. maintenance is so
skilled today that faults are becoming
rarer.
The telegraph-service of the P.M.G.
has a role far beyond the sending and
receipt of domestic and * business tele-
grams. It is an ever-ready link should
an emergency occur. As an example,
take some of these small towns concern-
ing which the department is criticised for
installing a teleprinter, when, according
to many, a Morse-key and -sounder
would suffice. A bad fire, or a bad acci-
dent which causes the local doctor to need
help in a hurry and advice and supplies
—then how is the Morse-key, with its
15 w.p.m. and often double-handling of
traffic, likely to show against a modern
teleprinter?
Early this year I covered the Royal
tour of Australia for an Australian daily
and a large overseas newsagency. The
two-months’ trip gave me more respect
and admiration for the P.M.G. Depart-
ment and its employees than I had ever
had before over almost 20 years of
journalism. It showed me, too, how
efficient a well-organised teleprinter-net-
work could be and how inefficient the
Morse-key and -sounder had become.
Fortunately, I only came across the key
twice, and each time it let me down.
First, at a small country town in the
Goulbum Valley (Vic,), where a few
hundred words for the overseas agency
were left in the hope they would be dis-
patched quicker than they would be by
taking them to the large provincial town
I was making for by car. When I reached
this town about an hour later the mes-
sage was still coming through.
The second case was at a West Aus-
tralian aerodrome, where a Morse-key
was connected from the ’drome to the
post-office 10 miles away. It was pathetic
to see these P.M.G. men '“pounding
brass,” sending these long messages by
Morse, which would have to be re-
handled and then sent on, presumably
by teleprinter, from the local post-office.
Everywhere else I went in all States
there was the teleprinter, fast and
efficient. As an example of the speed
which this equipment can accomplish
with prior organisation, the department
had installed a battery of teleprinters on
the wharf at Fremantle solely for Press
messages on Gothic’s departure from the
wharf about 25ft. away. Gothic left at
5.20 p.m.; my first take of 60 words
was filed at 5.21. It was in my Melbourne
office four minutes afterwards (two and
a half minutes of this time was in hand-
ling and in the tube from the G.P.O. to
the office in Melbourne), and it was in
the London agency’s office a minute be-
fore that (5.24 p.m.).
Naturally, of course, teleprinters are
ideal for Press traffic, where speed is
essential and wordage is often lengthy.
But it seems only logical that, with more
and more teleprinters installed through-
out the country, costs will drop and ser-
vice will improve.— Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
The French Skid
In relation to “Maros’s” statement,
“Since Waterloo, France has been on the
skids” (B. 14/7/’54), it is worth noting
that the population of France, which at
the time of the Napoleonic wars repre-
sented one-fifth of Europe’s population,
was less than one-tenth in 1900. A pre-
sent-day comparison would reveal an
even more pronounced difference.
Note, also, France’s history of unstable
government, which seems strange when
her Parliamentary system is almost iden-
tical with that of England, and Australia.
This system of government functions
efficiently when there are only two pro-
minent political forces in the country as
in England and Australia; in France
there are so many factions, all so funda-
mentally different, that short-lived coali-
tion-Governments are inevitable.
Obviously, unless a new and powerful
movement arises, or unless several fac-
tions agree on broad principles, the
French skid will develop into a debacle
for the French nation. — J. Saunders
(N.S.W.).
Secret Ballot
Dr. Evatt, who only three years ago
was so opposed to the secret ballot
ordered and conducted by the Arbitration
Court today,, has become silent on this
fine piece of legislation which put another
Communist, J. J. Brown, to the scrap-
heap in Victoria.
When Prime Minister Menzies first an-
nounced his plans to allow court-con-
ducted ballots “Labor” leaders claimed
that the legislation was “undemocratic,”
“against the principles of Labor,” and
they advanced a host of other “anti-”
reasons.
They said it was up to the unions to
conduct their own affairs; if there were
any malpractices the unions themselves
were the people to fix them. Yet Brown
and his Communist colleagues kept run-
ning the A.R.U. in Melbourne, and the
Labor groups, which now control the
union, were powerless to do anything to
rid themselves of this leadership until the
secret-ballot legislation was passed.—
S.L. (Vic.).
“Even with stamp-allowance and entertainment-allowance we can't get by
on your measly Parliamentary salary. You'll have to legislate for more."


Public Notice*
l 7 CHARLES OSER, of Hungarian nation-
ality, bom at Bendzin, Poland, resident
4f years in Australia, now residing at
4/147 Duncan Street, Maroubra, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, REGINA OSER, of Hungarian nation-
ality, bom at Budapest, Hungary, resident
4J years in Australia, now residing at
4/147 Duncan Street, Maroubra, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
fimfo^
A
%pm
Tht
DEPENDABLE
cU/akettc
rtSS-
AND MEDIUM
STRENGTH
X967D-8.53
a GlANTofa chain saw
..in a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through . . . But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat,
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
Mobilco
ONE-HAN
CHAIN SAW
74
/:
r* I
W
fm
Ik
:
•v
VC
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address
You can get your Mobiico on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobiico.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES .... BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - • - - - - ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Car-stealing
“MacD.” is no doubt correct
in saying that the difficulty in
charges of car-stealing is to prove
that the “illegal user” intended
to deprive the owner perman-
ently of his property (B.
21/7/’54), blit this question of
animus furandi seems all
cockeyed to me.
If I like to “borrow” a car
worth a few hundred pounds and
say I always intended to return
it, I have the benefit of lenient
laws.
But if I cook the books to
borrow a similar amount from
my employer, with probably
more initial intention of return-
ing it than the car-thief has —
don’t most book-cookers mean
to get it back next Saturday? —
I’m an embezzler and a fraud
and goodness knows what else.
The fact that I may be “young
and impressionable” isn’t going
to make the slightest difference
to where I’ll end up.— Dumb
Dora (N.S.W.).
Bihugas
Two German scientists have
been telling the World Power
Congress in Brazil of a new use
for compost. By a simple and
inexpensive process, manure,
compost or vegetable-waste
common to all farms can be
fermented to produce a gas
called “bihugas” in sufficient
quantities to provide fuel for
cooking, heating and other
energy-requirements of the
average farmer. Two German
firms are already delivering
trucks converted to run on
bihugas.
If farm-wastes, why not town-
wastes? The Melbourne Board
of Works is preparing to spend
£60,000,000 on pipelines, etc., to
discharge Melbourne’s sewage
into Bass Strait at Cape Schanck.
Fermentation- and storage-tanks
for the German process can be
installed profitably for a dairy-
farm with 100 cows, so it should
be possible to instal them profit-
ably for a city of a million and
a half people. —C. B. (Vic.).
Antarctic Weather-stations
America will next year operate
three weather-stations on the
Antarctic continent, one of them
“And ask them to send out their free towing-service."
in the atmospheric “cauldron”
believed to be in the unexplored
area near the Rockefeller
Mountains. Scientists think that
weather conditions in this area
control weather all over the
world. The results of the expedi-
tion’s research should be of
inestimable value to Australia.
With the Australian bases at
Mawson, Heard and Macquarie,
the French at Kerguelen and
Amsterdam, the New Zealanders
at Campbell, the British in the
Falklands and South Georgia,
and the South Africans at
Marion, the three American
stations will complete a chain
around Antarctica, a situation
long desired by weather experts
all over the world. For the first
time in history there will be a
continuous record of Antarctic
observations, so that a regular
pattern can be arrived at to
assist in long-range forecasting.
The Rockefeller Mountains
have been seen only from the
air—by Admiral Byrd when he
made his flight from Little
America to the Pole in 1929.
The spot where the permanent
low-pressure area is suspected to
be is only 10 degrees from the
Pole, in about 80 degrees south,
120 east, which will make it the
furthest - south station ever
established.
To the west lies the great Ross
Ice Shelf, the notorious Barrier
whose unpredictable weather
defeated Scott. The only known
parts of the great bight that
encloses the Barrier are the coast
of Victoria Land ending in the
Beardmore Glacier, that
monstrous cataract of ice twice
as large as any other known
glacier, and the eastern corner,
where Amundsen took his dog-
teams through to win the race to
the Pole. The eastern coast is
unknown, except from the air.
The expedition’s probable
route to the Rockefeller Plateau
will be via the Bay of Whales
and along the Barrier until a
route on to the plateau can be
found before the season closes-in
and travel is impossible. They’ll
be breaking new ground in the
world’s worst weather conditions,
but if I know the Yanks they’ll
have the latest mechanical equip-
ment —and they have a knack of
rolling difficulties aside un-
equalled by any other nation on
earth. I’d like to be with that
expedition.—C. J. (W.A.).
Retiring Age y
A census of “retired” people,
to reveal how many are actually
resting after their life’s work and
how many have taken other jobs,
would be interesting. I know of
several ex-public-servants draw-
ing handsome salaries plus
superannuation.
Individually as well as
nationally, this is a big question.
If a man has health and faculties,
retirement at a comparatively
early age is usually fatal unless
he has an absorbing hobby. An
old chap of my acquaintance
retired from his own business
at 78, almost died of boredom at
home, and is now happy working
for a boss at 81. Outstanding
physical and mental alertness,
yes, but a strong argument
against condemning a man to
decay in an armchair when he
can continue to live actively and
be of service to the community.
—Arthur Falk (Vic.).


Best
Mineral
Supplement
sd
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
Os
CM
1W
boH»
bsv.
i dti-€a£(&
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
' *, .
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O, Box 1583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bo> 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
So* 713 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588, PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’ BOY” DUSTER AND
FERTILISER SPREADER
fsd
Write to your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’lknd:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania; Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St„ Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagrh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
COFFEE AND COWS
T’M no farmer, but I have
-■-recently spent seven months
in the scattered company of
pioneer planters and graziers up
in the western highlands of New
Guinea —to Europeans a new
and strangely fertile territory.
The following notes are not
expert observations but come
from several months’ interested
study.
If you want to take up a
couple of hundred acres for
Shepherd and sheep on Jim Leahy’s place (Papuan Prints).
coffee—the topweight in the
highlands—or for any other
legitimate purpose, you’ve first
got to become well and favor-
ably known to the kanakas. You
approach them and ask if they
will sell you this particular slope
of kunai. If the answer is yes,
you carry the glad tidings to the
District Commissioner, who has
bad his eye on you and knows
just a bit more about you than
you might think. If you’re O.K.
with the commissioner he gets
in a jeep or charter-plane and
checks with the kanakas, and
Bob’s your uncle.
You pay a survey-fee which
leaves you change out of a
tenner, and only a few quid
more than that per year back to
the Administration for the land.
Administration pays the kanakas
cash for the land.
Coffee or tea won’t pay you
anything for three or four years.
But once the trees start bearing
they keep right on bearing.
Coffee-trees at Wau, for in-
stance, have been bearing
heavily for well over 25 years.
And New Guinea coffee was
worth, a couple of months ago,
£lOOO sterling a ton in England.
A planter near Goroka is said to
have received £lO,OOO the first
year his trees —just recently—
came good. For continued bear-
ing, of course, it’s essential to
select land with depth of soil.
However, you’ve got to have
money, or another source of in-
come, to carry you over the
initial three or four unproductive
years. About 50 kanakas must
be employed at the outset to
clear and drain the land and to
plant and tend the trees. These
men are paid 15s. a month (£2
for boss-boys), and must be fed,
housed and issued with blankets,
lap-laps, and a few other
amenities. And the planter is
responsible for their health.
The planter and his family get
&n abundance of local fruits and
vegetables very cheaply from the
natives. All other necessities are
flown into the area and are
mighty expensive.
So those first three or four
years are something to think
about.
The highland valleys are
above 5000 ft. and lie about six
degrees south of the equator.
The climate doesn’t vary much
the year round, and is cool and
healthy, though there is malaria.
The rainfall is up to 130 in. a
year. This, combined with rich
volcanic soil and an equatorial
sun, makes things grow rather
magically. An instance: eight
days after you plant radish-seed
it’s time to eat the results or
they become too big and coarse.
Maize does magnificently, and
on the same ground you get two
crops a year. Conditions are per-
fect for peanuts. And peanuts
can be grown between your
coffee-rows. Soya-beans are
another natural. In the kanaka
gardens are tapioca and kau-
kau (a kind of sweet-potato).
Kau-kau is the foundation of
the native diet; I saw one tuber
weighing 71b. The natives grow
good sugarcane.
There’s a beautiful incon-
gruity about garden bedfellows
in the highlands. Cabbages and
bananas (I lost count of the
banana varieties); asparagus and
pineapples; silver-beet and
passionfruit bigger than duck-
eggs ; tomatoes, lettuce, French-
beans and paw-paws. Potatoes
develop quickly. The altitude
suits cold-climate crops and the
equatorial sun looks after the
lest.
A pleasant chore on Bob
Gibbes’s Wahgi Valley airstrip
was to supervise picking and
treatment of the coffee and tea
planted there. The coffee, which
was just beginning to bear, had
a flavor which brings on nostal-
gia. New Guinea coffee com-
mands such high prices it must
be blended with less noble
strains for retail. The tea had
a distinct Chinese tang. This
tea hails originally from Assam,
and was conditioned on Queens-
land’s Atherton Tableland be-
fore being tried in New Guinea.
Tea calls for far more skill
and care in the picking than
coffee; on that account is far
more expensive in native labor.
Gibbes is having a machine
made to his own design, to cope
with New Guinea conditions,
which may pick tea very quickly.
Or may not. The fact that tea
is picked on a level, like hedge-
pruning, makes machine-pick-
ing possible.
There’s a swelling stream of
livestock moving into the high-
land valleys. On the Baiyer
River, 30 miles north of Mt.
Hagen settlement and about 100
miles west of Goroka, is a Gov-
ernment experimental station
with about 250 head of cattle
and 40 or 50 horses. The real
grazing pioneers in the high-
lands are the gold-finding Leahy
brothers and, as the imaginative
force behind the Nondugl
station, Sir Edward Hallstrom.
But who was first doesn’t matter.
The missions, too, have done
good work.
I didn’t have a good look at
Nondugl, but was able to spend
a lot of time with Danny Leahy
on his interesting property at
Kuta, which looks down on
the western end of the Wahgi
Valley. Kuta is at about 6600 ft.
Nondugl, halfway along the
Wahgi, is about 1000 ft. lower.
Leahy’s stock graze along the
top of the range at Kuta; his
coffee and tea are 2000 ft. below,
over the back of -the range.
There are 60-odd cattle, horses,
a flock of sheep and Berkshire
pigs, and pigs crossed with
kanaka pigs.
The numbers aren’t important,
but the fact that stock are thriv-
ing is. There’s a mighty lot of
land up there that the gardening
kanakas don’t use. And New
Guinea still has her hand deep
in the Aussie taxpayer’s pocket.
Talking about pigs, I saw
some so big that the porcine
relationship to elephants was
self-evident. They were Berk-
shires on Carl Gotsch’s farm,
also in the Wahgi Valley. The
staple kau-kau is a big part of
pig-feed in the highlands.
Up at Kuta, Danny Leahy
had a lot to say about ticks.
They’re a real problem. When I
left New Guinea about the be-
ginning of June it was forbid-
den to move horses from their
home station, as horses are con-
sidered the main tick-carriers.
A rather negative attack on the
tick'. Dips are not used, and
Leahy spent six months labori-
ously hand-spraying his cattle
before they reached their present
tick-free condition. He says
that if all highland stock-owners
were forced to be equally pains-
taking, now, while the stock are
relatively few in number, a later
major problem would be averted.
When some of the first mis-
sion cattle were driven over the
high mountain barrier into the
Wahgi it was fondly believed
that at the extreme altitude any
ticks on the cattle would suc-
cumb. Some may have fallen
off, but a good many managed
to cling on and survived the
journey. The*missions, own a big
proportion of the livestock in
the highlands.
Government vets make regu-
lar inspections of stock. Careful
stock-owners like Leahy feel
that this supervision could be
made a good deal more forceful.
Leahy uses a windmill to
charge batteries for lighting.
Ideal on the crest of his breezy
range. Other settlers use water-
wheels for buckshee power. It’s
a region of turbulent streams.
Bill Matthew and Allan Fergu-
son, partners at Kinjibi planta-
tion in the Wahgi, made a big
wheel 13ft. in diameter. They
prefabbed it on the coast, flew
the bits in and set it up over a
diversion of the near-by stream.
Few people believed it would
work; but Matthew and Fergu-
son did, and it does. The big
wheel revs at 18 a minute, and
is geared to turn a generator at
1500, spins emery-wheels and
performs other odd-jobs. Former
sceptics come and look and
learn.
Leahy’s sheep keep things
warm at Kuta. Native women
sit at spinning-wheels and a
loom weaving blankets from the
wool. Orders for these blankets
have come from as far away as
Sydney. The Kuta butter, too,
is easy to take. You consider
this achievement, at Kuta, over
a fragrant cup of the home-
grown tea or coffee.
What Danny Leahy is doing at
Kuta brothers Mick and Jim are
doing elsewhere in New Guinea,
Hallstrom at Nondugl and the
Government at Baiyer River and
other stations.
All are still feeling their way
in the unusual conditions; but
cattle and sheep and horses are
adaptable creatures. It seems
certain now that they, like the
tea and coffee, have a future in
the high parts of New Guinea.
JACK LUSBY.
Wool Lectures
A series of lectures of interest
to woolgrowers and others will
be held next week at the Wool
Sale Room, Royal Exchange, 21
Bridge-street, Sydney.
The lectures have been
arranged by the School of Wool
Technology (N.S.W, University
of Technology), the aim being to
brief the man on the land on the
latest developments in the
industry. Lecturers, each of
whom has world standing in his
field, will discuss these matters
in simple, non-technical language.
Questions, discussion —that sort
of thing.
Lectures from Monday,
August 16, to Friday, August 20,
inclusive. Two lectures to be
held each day—the first from
10 a.m. to 11.20 a.m., the second
from 11.35 a.m. to 1 p.m. Fee
for the whole series will be
£2 2s.
The arrangements are for
applications, with fees, to reach
the Registrar, N.S.W. University
of Technology, Broadway, not
later than Friday, August 13;
admission-tickets then being sent
to applicants.
The Bulletin pointed out to
Professor McMahon that this
would be cutting it a bit fine for
some readers. So, as a sugges-
tion, a telephone-call to the
School of Wool Technology,
Darlinghurst, FA 1898, may solve
the difficulty.
Water Purification
Alum, as an agent for purify-
ing water, has been mentioned
on these pages many times. But
a good thing is always worth
repeating, and, anyway, “Gui”
has some additional information.
Come in, “Gui”:
Muddy water can be purified by
the addition of alum, quantities
required varying from loz. per
lOOOgals. to loz. per 250ga15., de-
pending on the degree of pollu-
tion. Alum forms a slimy sub-
stance which sinks to the bottom,
dragging suspended matter with it.
Most dam-water is not sufficiently
alkaline for the reaction and it be-
comes necessary to add washing-soda,
at a rate of half the alum dosage.
Chemicals should be dissolved before
adding, and then well stirred in. If
a really clear water is required, ran
it after treatment through a filter-bed
of the following, in the order shown:
30in. sand
Sin. gravel (Jin. to lin.)
Sin. gravel (lin. to lin.)
Sin. gravel (lin. to l£in.)
Sin. gravel (Hin. to 2|in.)
Sparkle can be added and odors
removed by allowing the filtered water
to fall through the air in a finely
divided spray.
Farm Hints
“T.P.”: Runner-ducks like
fluke-snails. So a few kept along
a fluky creek can be a help.
“Monaro”: A tin of salt is
useful when dosing sheep. Dip
your fingers in now and then
and you’ll find jumbucks easier
to handle.
“S'. Cane” : Sometimes it’s a
good idea to burn stones if you
want to get rid of them. My
mate and I had a contract to
construct a roadway which con-
sisted of a cutting along the side
of a hill. Numerous outsized
boulders were a problem; as
they were too big and heavy to
roll off, my mate suggested that
we burn them. Timber for fire-
wood was in abundance right
on the job, so we built fires on
the boulders and the heat caused
them to crack through and
through. Pinchbar and spawling-
hammer made the rest of the
job simple and easy.
“Tommo”: Kerosene will
deal effectively with the coon-
bug often noticed on posts at this
time of the year. If the pests
have left this harbor and have
reached trees and shrubs it is
better to use 0.1 per cent. D.D.T.
in dust or spray form, or
H.E.T.P. one pint to 200 gals


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
I ■
mum
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
This
NO
NO
of
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
sewerage no matter where your home may be. _____
GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
-
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
■■■ DISTRIBUTORS ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane. . „ „,,
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
.St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston,
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey Stl, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
m
Va
m
m
5t7W
«WS!
3W
!*i <■ *»
£&***<■
t/T
t**
'»SB :
itaLswl
55$^
“MSP
KWafi
fIH&S
)|W
Frf
«6®
IJS
as*
!«5
*S
ya
-
Sa*
ssgagSa
kbCs
■
The Polar Bjorn, 150 tons, noses her way
through the ice to anchor off Green Har-
bour, Spitzbergen, nearly a thousand
miles within the Arctic Circle. The year
is 1924.
The Oxford University Arctic Expedi-
tion disembark. Crates are unloaded,
unpacked. In the bitter cold an Avro
Lynx seaplane is assembled.
In a matter of hours the ’plane is ready
for the take-off. In a matter of days it is
playing a valuable part in the exploration
of desolate North East Island, adjoining
Spitzbergen, reaching Lat. 80° 15'N.—
the farthest North any aircraft had
flown.
SPITZBERGEN, 1924-
A seaplane braves the Arctic
Flying in temperatures far below zero
demands a fuel of outstanding quality.
The Oxford University Expedition of
1924 used BP aviation spirit exclusively.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to
provide aviation fuels speedily and effi-
ciendy.
VfIVIATIQH
fsd
SERVICE^
3/54
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.
The Black-oat Problem
Black-oats do not get
much publicity in com-
parison with skeleton-weed, wild
turnip, hoary-cress. Cape-weed,
thistles, etc., but they remain a
problem — particularly when
wheat is sown in successive years
on stubble land.
In the northern half of the
Australian wheatbelt the normal
summer rainfall puts sufficient
moisture into the soil to justify
stubble-cropping, but does little
or nothing towards germinating
the black-oat seed; in which
case, of course, it could be killed
by the subsequent cultivation in
the preparation of the seed-bed.
In these circumstances, black-
oats are the wheatgrowers’
greatest weed problem.
Black-oat has certain charac-
teristics which give it an edge
in the battle for survival and
propagation. One of these is that,
immediately on ripening, the seed
goes into a state of dormancy,
during which nothing will induce
it to germinate, especially in
high-summer or early-autumn
temperatures. Such a dormant
state is encouraged to last longer
in the absence of oxygen, and if
the seed is buried deeply in the
soil it can lie there, asleep, but
still alive, until it is brought to
the surface again; when it
resumes breathing and is ready to
germinate. Let there be no com-
placency in putting black-oats
out of the mind because they are
out of sight.
Moreover, when black-oats
germinate with the wheat crop
they are sufficiently early-
maturing to shed much of their
seed before the crop is ready
to harvest. The old maxim
“one year’s seeding means seven
years’ weeding” applies with
greater force to black-oats than
perhaps to any other weed.
But there is an answer to most
problems if you really study
them. The answer to this one —
the vulnerable point, anyway—
is indicated by the above.
Deep ploughing should be
avoided, keeping the black-oat
seed on or near the surface of the
soil, where much of it can be
encouraged to germinate with the
surface moisture and lower
temperatures of late autumn, and
delaying wheat-sowing as late as
possible. If the land is to be
long-fallowed, shallow cultiva-
tions in late winter or early
spring will help to germinate and
kill a few seedling crops of the
weed.
If an annual grazing-crop,
such as oats, is to be sown with
the view of encouraging black-
oats to germinate with it and to
be grazed-out and prevented
from seeding, much effort can be
wasted in sowing this oat crop
too early, before the black-oat
seed is ready to germinate.
Putting down a long-term
pasture—such as lucerne or other
perennial pasture —on the land
with a similar objective requires
attention to close grazing in
spring to prevent seeding of the
black-oats.
No one should believe, how-
ever, that one or two long-term
pastures will eliminate black-
oats from a soil that is already
well loaded with seed.
Summer row-crops, such as
grain-sorghum "or maize (where
they can be grown), also help in
controlling the black-oat.
The black-oat problem is also
serious in northern U.S.A. and
Canada, where continuous
wheat-culture is practised. There,
chemicals such as IPC, maleic-
hydrazide and CMU are reported
to have given promising results,
hormone weedicides like 2,4-D
being unsuitable for this purpose.
A. V.
The New Orchard
“Sundowner”: It’s as well to
think carefully before beginning.
If good soil is there to pick from
(porous subsoil is what you look
for here) the most important
factor in starting an orchard is
the site.
The commercial orchardist
won’t need to be told this; or
what follows. But, of course,
one of the most interesting things
about the land is the fact that
nearly everyone is a beginner at
something. These remarks are
addressed to the man who is
thinking of an orchard as a side-
line, or in terms of plenty of fruit
and preserves about the place.
Site should be level, or with a
slight slope towards the north.
It should not be in a frost pocket,
and should also be free from
late-spring frosts. Natural
shelter, such as that provided by
surrounding hills, is a great
advantage. If this isn’t present
it will be necessary to establish
shelter-belts of trees some time
before the orchard is planted.
What to plant also requires
careful thought. Remember that
apples and pears don’t bear fruit
for a number of years, and need
careful and consistent spraying
before clean fruit is produced,
while in the case of pip-trees it is
necessary to spray as many as
12 times a season.
For the home-garden, particu-
larly, peaches, nectarines and
plums will give the quickest
return for the smallest effort. If
a variety of trees are being
planted give special attention to
the layout of the orchard. As
different types of sprays are
required, stone-fruits should not
be interplanted with pip-fruit.
If the orchard is planted on the
square system it will simplify
spraying. To obtain the square,
take a straight base-line along
the boundary-fence and set-off
the two ends by the 3:4:5
triangulation method, to make
sure of the right-angles. If the
area is irregular, mark-off the
largest possible square, and fill-in
the odd corners afterwards.
Distance between trees will
vary with type and with rich-
ness or poverty of the soil.
Planting too close is one of the
common faults of orchardists.
Crosscuts
A national conference on
damage to wool by branding will
be held in Melbourne on
September 10. There was one
in 1945, and some useful research
and an improved branding-fluid
followed it.
* • •
Flourmillers are giving Sydney
University £9OOO for research in
wheat —bringing the total of
recent gifts by the millers to the
university up to £17,000.
♦ ♦ *
“Allium”: Weeding is the
greatest labor - consumer in
growing onions, and little ad-
vance has been made, or is pos-
sible, by mechanisation. Selec-
tive weedicides seem likely to be
the answer. In America power-
kerosene and dinitro-compounds
have not been entirely satisfac-
tory ; calcium-cyanamide dust,
however, controls broad-leaved
weeds and Chloro-IPC has
knocked-back annual grasses
without hurting the onions.
* ♦ ♦
In a recent experiment at
Seven Hills arsanilic-acid failed
as a substitute for penicillin, or
as a supplement to that antibiotic
(N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture). Recent American research
had suggested that arsanilic-acid
was able to increase growth-rate
of chickens, even when anti-
biotics were used. There has been
an intensive search for cheap
substitutes for antibiotics for
poultry-feeding. Hence the
experiment at Seven Hills.
* * *
“A noteworthy development
(for 1953) was the continued
expansion of the use of artificial-
insemination. Two advances of
particular interest were the per-
fecting of a technique for pre-
serving semen by deep-freezing
and the lifting of the ban on its
export” (Report of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for Scot-
land).
♦ ♦ •
“You would be surprised at
the amount of wild-pig meat
being sent to Sydney” (E. G.
Moore, a member of the
N.S.W. Pigbreeders’ Association
Council). This, and overfat
bacon, would be likely to depress
bacon prices. Most of the fat
bacon, Moore said, came from
western N.S.W., fed “almost
exclusively” on wheat. Shortage
of meatmeal in the State a factor.
* ♦ ♦
Extract from an article in an
overseas trade-publication;
First consider engine-design and
its effect on performance, using as a
basis of comparison the T-model
which was in production some 25
years ago and the present Zephyr
Zodiac. The T-model developed its
maximum power of 20 b.h.p. at a
mere 1600 r.p.m., whilst the Zodiac
will speed up to 4200 for maximum
power, developing 71 b.h.p the
compression-ratio has risen from
3.98:1 to 7.5:1....
All of which, combined with
higher temperatures, adds up to
the importance of oil used in
modern engines.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
There seems to be a good prospect of rain over the
greater part of Queensland during August; probably from
the 22nd, or around that date. Earlier rains should be in
the southern areas.


ojymnSllu iA}oo&ni
~tb AuiiT
UfifJh
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect. It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it holds its shape until the very end of its
many years of hard service.
The new 1954 range- of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will never fade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will be well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
Rfttds^et
PURE WOOL
(loth
GUARANTEED NEVER
TO FADE OR SHRINK*
C 4.113
How to solve
your problem
You can increase your powers
of creative thinking, if you
know the way. August Reader’s
Digest explains a step-by-step
method used in science and in-
dustry that can solve personal
problems, too.
For example: clear your mind
of all else. (20 minutes a day
of concentration will produce
surprising results). Let imag-
ination run wild. You are
stumped? Drop the whole thing
—your unconscious mind will
keep working.
Get your August Reader’s
Digest today, with many other
stimulating articles including
“Jules Verne, father of science
fiction” and “How to live with
your wife.” August Reader’s
Digest—on sale now 1/6 at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
GUARD
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it records
All Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
MCKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.LuL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Ault)
Between
Ourselves
sdf
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Look out at the big city
by David Campbell
THE heat! They’ll add it to
the bill, she thought—
another extra.
Someone laughed hysteri-
cally at the back of her mind,
and she swung off the bed, butt-
ing the cigarette in the washbasin.
Her long stained fingers jerked at
the blind and a bar of heat
chopped across the bedspread,
bringing the room out of its
corners. She stood against the
blind, her lean man’s-body
naked through her cotton dress.
In the sudden light, the baby
began to cry.
“Yes,” she said, “it’s hot. I’m
hot, too.”
She changed the baby’s nap-
kin, talking through safety-pins.
“There, we’ll be right in a
jiffy. I’ve got plenty more in the
port. Just go ahead. But it’s hot.
I wish he’d come,”
The baby was like a little
foundry. And in sudden pity
she caught him up to her lean
breast, comforting herself.
“There, there, there,” she
said. “Look out at the big city.”
She walked him up and
down, up and dowp, stilling her
nerves. But when the knock
came on the door, she stood
stock-still. He was here. She
looked swiftly around the room,
in the glass, at the baby. She
opened the door so that they
were left standing in the light
from the 1 hall.
“Well,” the man said, “Well,
you and the baby.”
TJE was looking at the baby
JLA with the usual half-smile
that masked his thinking, a dark-
haired man with casual ageing
looks and an air of knowing.
“Everything go off all right?”
“Yes,” she said. “Yes, I expect
so. It didn’t upset you, anyway.”
“Here,” he said. “Here, what
have I done? Does that kid
always wriggle like that?”
“It’s hot,” she said, “You’d
wriggle too if you’d been cooped
up here all day. Aren’t you
going to kiss me? Oh George,
you might have come down. You
might have. It’s been terrible.”
“You’ve managed before,” he
said. You’re the one to manage
things; you’re the tough one.
There, there now. You know
I couldn’t, don’t you?”
“You could have. It’s been
that lonely. You don’t know
what it’s like, having, babies.
And not a kiss or anything,”
“Now,” he said. “Now then.
How could I? With that kid
wriggling? Put it down, while I
kiss you.”
“No, no, George, not that way.
No, really, I couldn’t, George.
You don’t know what it’s like.
God, it’s good to see you,
George. God, I’ve missed you.
How’s the old Georgie, eh? The
same old Georgie! No, really,
no. I just want to lean on you.”
“That kid,” he said. “I can’t
get over the way it wriggles.”
“He, George; it’s a he. He’s
all right. It’s quite natural. He’s
hot, that’s all. Is the little
feller hot? There, he’s wet
again! You’d wonder where it
all comes from. Isn’t he little?
Look at him, George, He’s like
you. Look, he’s another
Georgie! ”
“You think so?”
“No, who’s he like, George?
Not Geoff; Geoff was curly.
Even when he was little, Geoff
was curly. How is Geoff?”
“Oh, Geoff’s all right. Still
going with that Maple girl.”
“Geoff! It seems like years!
Tell me about him.”
“The way that kid wriggles!”
George said, “It doesn’t seem
natural,”
“I’ll bet you wriggled. I bet
you wriggled too, George. There,
we’ll put him over here, where
it’s cooler. There, is it cooler
there? How is he, George? How
are things at the old place? Is
it still standing?”
“Oh, it’s all right. Janette’s
been tops. Look, I had the taxi
wait outside. I thought we’d get
right back. There’s a train at
seven.”
“But I’ve booked in, George,
I thought we might have a
night of it. You know, a bite
and a show. You know, sort of a
celebration.”
“How can we,” he said, “with
the kid? And, besides, we must
get back. Chef’s left.”
OHE stood stock-still in the
room, her hands on her
sides. Quite suddenly her eyes
were her own again.
“You don’t tell me,” she said,
“You never told me. So Chef’s
left?”
“Yes, he left this morning.
Had a row with old Nine-
o’clock,”
“I knew it,” she said. “I
knew it would happen. That
man! Coming in on the tick and
expecting omelettes and I don’t
know what not! I knew it was
coming.”
“Get your things together,” he
said. “The taxi’s waiting. Chef
was pretty good. You know
Chef, all over the stove in a tick,
like the morning coffee.”
“I can see him,” she said.
“Well, Nine-o’clock orders
steak.”
“He would. He just would.
He had it coming to him
Look, you duck down and fix
up the bill.”
Down the hall she called:
“Pay for one, just the one. You
didn’t stay Look, wait a
minute. I’ll be with you. They’re
robbers, anyway. And what did
Chef do?”
“Oh, Chef? I was only in at
the end of it. He was there in
the dining-room with the steak
on a toasting-fork.”
“No! Of course he’d been
on it.”
“Yes I’ll fix this up.
You duck in the taxi.”
She was still laughing when he
climbed in beside her..
“And what did you do?”
“I fired him. What else could
I do? He’d spat on the steak.”
“No! Oh, George, I shouldn’t
laugh like this. Not in front of
Nine-o’clock?”
“There, in the dining-room.”
“No! Oh, George, I shouldn’t
laugh like this. It’s not good
you know—for the house. And
it hurts me.”
“That’s why I fired him.”
6 6"pITY we couldn’t fire Nine-
A o’clock. Oh, George, I feel
uncomfortable suddenly, sort of
hollow^’
“Oh, Janette can manage,
We’ll be back tomorrow.
Janette’s been great. She’s been
a real surprise.”
“Not that, I mean George:
in the stomach. Sort of hollow.
You shouldn’t have made me
laugh like that.”
“It’s the heat,” he said. “Yes,
Janette’s turned up trumps. She's
run your side like she was born
to it.”
“Stop talking about Janette,”
she said. “I want to think. I
don’t know what’s come over
me.”
“Well, she’s your sister.”
■. “Stop harping on her,” she
said. “It’s a feeling inside—as if
I’d lost something Tell me
about Jim and Agnes.”
“Oh, they’re all right.”
“And the Hockings? It’ll be
fun to be back.”
“They’re all right, too.”
i 6 /"j'EORGE,” she said sud-
denly, slapping her knee.
“I know what it is. We’ve left
the baby,”


★ Britain s leading adventure Writer
Hammond Innes
THE STRANGE LAND. “He has surely now no rival in the
field as a writer of entirely credible adventure stories in a style
that makes no concessions at all to the sensational. The narrator
in The Strange Land is an acquaintance every reader for pleasure
should make without delay.”— DANIEL GEORGE.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
LANGUAGE DICTIONARIES
At Angus & Robertson’s you will find the biggest range of Foreign
Language Books in Australia. Especially valuable to students of foreign
.languages is the comprehensive selection of dictionaries, including—
IS 'cernm^ KE, *' D lC^lD*CARY—English-Czech; Czech-English, by Prof. Dr. A.
17/9 (post 9d.)
DICTIONARY of the English and Italian Languages. 24/- (post l/l)
KRAMERS’ WOORDENBOEK—EngIish-Dutch; Dutch-English. 32/6 (post 2/1)
ENGEIBH-MAGYAR; MAGYAR-ENGEISH—by Dr. Biro Lajos Pal and Dr. Wilier
Jozsef. Two vols. 27/6 (post Od.)
Ask for our list of boohs in French, German, Italian and Dutch.
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other books you need — you’ll find them all at .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
DEATH OF A LAKE
Arthur Upfield
A new Napoleon Bonaparte Novel
At all booksellers - - 10/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY AUCKLAND
high rating we were all, ol course, one
day going to be Test-cricketers ourselves.
The arrival of maturity, or what passes
for it, brought disillusipnment and a
reappraisal of values except doubtless
in the case of the two dozen or so lucky
fellows who actually did become the
Test-cricketers of their youthful dreams.
The disillusionment came on the realisa-
tion that one was destined never to play
in any cricket higher than what was
recently appropriately labelled by an
English writer “coarse cricket,” with the
then necessary reappraisal discovering
that earning a living, the pursuit of
women, marriage and other activities are
more fundamental than hitting-up a cen-
tury in a Test.
And what of our juvenile appraisement
of Test stars as gods—true or false?
Keith Miller and R. S. Whitington, in
their fifth joint effort, Gods or Flannelled
Fools? (Macdonald), which has a fore-
word by Sir John Barbirolli, discuss the
matter. Or, rather, Whitington does, in
a signed opening chapter bearing the
book’s title which raises quite a few in-
teresting points, particularly in connec-
tion with cricket administration, but
doesn’t in the long-run seem to get any-
where. The verdict on the whole goes
agin’ the Olympian status.
Whitington gets sole credit (and re-
sponsibility) for the first two long chap-
ters . . . one begins to wonder when
Miller is going to take strike. But the
problems of joint authorship are legion,
as the co-authors found in their earlier
books ; particularly when one of the pair
is a participant in many of the actions
described. (Any laudatory comment on
Miller the cricketer can, of course, be
taken as not having been written by Miller
the author.) Apart from which is the
occasional sneaking-in of the first-person-
singular in chapters signed by both.
The book revolves around Hassett’s
team’s tour of,England last year, but
the authors have wisely made it some-
thing more than a mere factual survey
of the cricket played - though room is
found for a fairly complete account of
all the Tests.
Written in chatty journalese, the book
is on a level with their previous ones,
all cricketing-bestsellers. It contains
long discourses by Whitington on those
two grand-old-men of cricket, both
former captains of England, both now
in the eighties—Sir Pelham Warner and
C. B. Fry ;in "Whitington’s estimate, both
of Jovian stature. And he writes inter-
estingly on two young Australians and
two ybung Englishmen, all playing first-
class cricket now, who are tipped as likely
Test skippers some day—“gods in the
making.”
And, after all, despite one’s own
failure to make the Australian Test team
(one had once hoped, long ago, for the
berth now occupied by Lindwall) cricket
still has a definite place in the scheme.
In fact Miller and Whitington echo
“Plum” Warner that cricket is “next to
the Throne the greatest link in the
Empire.”
However, on turning to E. W. Swan-
ton’s West Indian Adventure (Museum
Press), the story of Hutton’s M.C.C.
team in the Caribbean this year, one
begins to wonder whether cricket is a
bond of Empire at all. In this series
there were quite a few unpleasantnesses
and “incidents” of different kinds. In
the third Test, played in British Guiana,
there was a nasty bottle-throwing in-
cident which may have had political
inspiration.
The English team’s conduct was not
always exemplary on the field ; umpires’
decisions were sometimes ostentatiously
disputed. (Both statements apply in lesser
degree to West Indies players, too.) But
it was when the crowds queried decisions
that the fun really started. For instance,
when in the first Test in Jamaica umpire
Burke (whom Swanton considers as good
an umpire as anyone anywhere) gave the
local hero Holt out 1.b.w., when six short
of a century in his first Test, he was
accosted by a man who drew a knife,
saying, “You gave Holt out for 94. I
have a good mind to knife you.” And
Burke’s wife and son actually were
attacked. As well, West Indies skipper
Stollmeyer had to be given police protec-
tion merely for electing to bat again in
the first Test instead of exercising his
right of forcing Britain to follow-on!
Swanton sticks purely to the cricket
played, most of the accounts being his
dispatches sent to the London “Daily
Telegraph.” West Indies won the first
two Tests, but England fought back to
win the third and fifth of the series (the
fourth was drawn). The book is inter-
esting to the Australian reader, as Aus-
tralia goes to the West Indies next year.
(Reverting to cricket as a bond of
Empire, Swanton finishes on the optimis-
tic note that the misadventures of this trip
will be forgotten and that future Test
series will be played in much happier
vein. Here’s hoping he’s right.)
In conclusion, if one may revert again,
this time back to Gods or Flannelled
Fools?, it was not Frank Ward who,
with O’Reilly and Fleetwood-Smith,
“had looked so helpless there [Kenning-
ton Oval] in 1938’—the last 1938 Test
when England closed at 7-903 after
Hutton had made the still-standing Test-
record score (364). It was instead South
Australian medium-pacer Mervyn Waite
who bowled the third-highest number of
overs (72) in that marathon affair.
K. R.
Reviewed Briefly
The Retreat, or The Machinations of
Henry: Forrest Reid (Faber). A reprint
of one of a trilogy of Tom Barber novels
which received high praise-in the 1930’5.
The Ulster-born author —perhaps best re-
membered now for his critical writing on
W. B. Yeats —displays in this book cer-
tain affinities with Algernon Blackwood:
this reader recalled Blackwood’s Jimbo
many times. Tom Barber, the central
character, is a twelve-year-old who —
under the influence of a stray cat, Henry,
that “adopts” the Barber household and
Tom in particular—has some most remark-
able dream, or dreamlike experiences,
of a mystical-atavistic nature. He also
has some actual adventures described
With delightful grace and an urbane
humor. Mr. Reid makes it perfectly
plain both in his presentation, and in
his quotation of Henry Vaughan’s poem
“The Retreat,” from which the book
takes its title, that he believes in the
reincarnation Of souls; he also believes
in magic, white and black, so that the
pervading atmosphere of the book is one
of esoteric eeriness.
* * ♦ #
The Galileans: Frank G. Slaughter
(Jarrolds). A good deal of research has
gone into the writing of this novel, sub-
titled “A Novel of Mary Magdalene.”
The result is colorful and of some in-
terest for its background material:
scenes in various cities, a theatrical per-
formance at Alexandria and so forth, but
as a piece of character-interpretation the
book is extremely naive. The author,
who has some celebrity as a writer of
popular medical articles (he is a doctor),
displays his idea of Mary’s life by
paralleling it with the career of a young
Jewish doctor who loves • her, and thus
gives the book the additional interest of
descriptions of ancient medical lore and
practice.
* * ♦ ♦
Dolores: David Stacton (Faber), is
a novel for pure enjoyment, and the
author, who has no other books listed
to his credit in this volume, is a novelist
to watch for. Dolores is narrated by a
middle-aged American, Tom, who is con-
nected with the film business as a finan-
cial expert, so that many people more
directly involved in the making of pic-
tures have some interest in gaining and
retaining his favor. Some eight years
before the book begins Tom was work-
ing for a few months in Hollywood,
where, among all the phony people of
the film colony (whom the author
satirises with sympathetic insight), he
meets a young and unhappy girl,
Dolores. She, intelligent, attractive and
desperately intent on being independent
and retaining her spiritual privacy, is
some twenty years his junior. Their
casual, innocent friendship almost
develops into an acknowledged love, but
Tom is constantly aware of the difference
in their ages and, just when Dolores pro-
bably needs him most, they part. In
Rome, he sees her again by accident,
and the book is concerned both with
recounting the past and with outlining
the present quest. Not only is this beauti-
fully written novel a work of acute per-
ception, but the writer avoids the effect
of attenuated bloodlessness which has
spoilt too many recent novels that deal
with the subtler stresses between
characters.
* • * *
ChristabeVs Cornish Adventure:
Dorothy May Hardy (Nelson); and No
Place for Ponies : Primrose Gumming
(Dent). Two recent books for girls aged
about ten to thirteen. Both books use
unfailingly popular subject-matter—the
Cornish one has its quota of hidden
caves used for no good purpose, and
strange maritime developments in the
plot. Far more tastefully produced and
illustrated. Miss Cumming’s novel tells
how Toni and Jane managed to keep
their ponies amid great difficulties in the
small and unsuitable grounds of a guest-
house. As is common in stories catering
for the current pony-craze there is a
wealth of presumably accurate technical
detail,
♦ * * ♦
Enjoying Radio and Television : Robert
Dunnett (Phoenix). As good a substitute
as you could get for a conducted-tour of
the 8.8. C. broadcasting and television
services: announcing, radio-acting, out-
side-broadcasts, recording programmes,
television-cameras and -technique, play-
production, how to speak on the air—
mainly for young readers, and quite well
presented, with illustrations.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 290
Across
I—lnfant1 —Infant comrade-in-arms is to find
the sum entirely. (7)
s—Deadly associate in war-time has
a corporation. (7)
8 — Off-handed sleepers among the
injured and the slain. (10)
9 Black bone is broken. (4)
11 — Jawbone turns us towards a baby-
carriage with a kiss for an Everest
conqueror who has lost his head.
(14)
12— Expelling the trip. (6)
14—For example, a horse woman has
an implement to time the boiling
cackleberries. (3-5)
17 —Compounds of oils and potash
are flatter. (4-4)
19—Reply for a State queen. (6)
22—A way of turning odd turf in
brief apples. (9, 5)
25 — Grub puts the nosebag on. (4)
26 — Not a very long card-game feature
of San Luis Rey in July, 1714.
(10)
27 — Who comes in a Moabite city
stream? (7)
28 — Deceives 500 dodges. (7)
Down
1 — Where schoolboys fill in features
of the Friar’s progress when he
has one sore foot. (9)
2 One drunk turned up with a drink
for another drunk. (4-3)
3 Send up everything to a parent
beast. (5)
4 Still bloke in a place on the
Macintyre River. (6)
5 These Europeans upset me during
Highland dances. (8)
6 Land in Spain with a preliminary
illustration of 90 degrees. (7)
7 American tug. (4)
10 —Hit out against an ancient High-
land warcry or a modem party’s
catchcry. (6)
13 —A victory for Cromwell. (6)
15— Proud walkers make Sturt rest
among holy groove-makers. (9)
16 — Petrified performer is a tough
little guy. (4-4)
18 —Forster changes the loud musical
table of duties for the man who
makes the glass opaque; (7)
20 — Some of 8 across twisted the
editor. (7)
21 — Marine Edward isn’t upstanding.
(6)
23 Like a wild beast in the flare.
(5)
24 — Gave in this star. (4) '
Solution to Crossword No. 289


sd
I
41
is
IL"
4
y-*'
..'J o
&
z
1
m
W
Centum
BATTE R I E S
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with improved plates and separators designed to incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED, Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY;—
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
St., Alexandria.
Smith Sons & Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Commonwealth St.,
Sydney.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St.,
Albury.
Queensland:
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy,, Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
Plant & Plant (Machinery) Pty, Ltd., Ruthven
St., Toowoomba.
Victoria: )
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia:
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., 15 Ackland St,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St., Perth.
Tasmania;
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart; T. & G.
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
WHEN YOU THINK BATTERIES THINK CENTURY
